Volume 80, Number 11
December 4, 1979
TARTAN
Carnegie-Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Rape attempted in Doherty Hall basement
by Doug Kirsop
A rape was attempted last Friday in the 
C-section sub-basement of Doherty Hall. 
Shortly before 9 PM, a female art student 
left the fiber lab to go to the restroom. 
While in one of the stalls, a man, with his 
pants down, kicked open the door of her 
stall.
The female student screamed, and was 
able to flee from her aggressor. According 
to Campus Police, no words were exchan
ged between the two before the aggressor 
ran from that area of the building. Another 
art student who was working in the area 
called Campus Police. They then began anextensive search of both Doherty and Sci
ence Halls.
An officer spotted an individual fitting 
the description of the aggressor near the 
entrance to Doherty later in the evening. 
The individual was ...standing around, and 
doing things like tying and untying his 
shoes, said Lt. Armand Castelli, head of 
Campus Police.
This is the hole between the men's and women's restrooms. The photo on the left is of the women's room, from the men's room. The photo on the right shows the six inch diameter hole as seen from the women's room.
When approached by the officer, the in
dividual ran further into Doherty. Campus 
Police then requested assistance from local 
law enforcement officials. More officers 
and K-9 units were brought in. Once again, 
an extensive search ensued, which again 
failed to locate the suspect.
Several students and some police of
ficials believe that the aggressor was wait
ing in an adjacent mens room. There is a
Looking back at Ithaca
Analysis
by Ken Kulak
Although the November 24th game at 
Ithaca stopped the Tartan drive to the 
Alonzo Stagg Bowl, the contest started a 
storm of rumors and complaints on and 
off-campus about the Carnegie-Mellon 
Athletic Department. Since 
Mews t*lat Saturday, grumblings 
of frustration and an occa
sional angry outburst have 
been heard from fans, par
ents and, at times, the players themselves.
The most startling fact to emerge from 
this post-game atmosphere was that NCAA 
referees were not used in the Ithaca game. 
Apparently, the NCAA judge in charge 
of allocating officials did not schedule 
people for this playoff game, and instead 
sent ECAC (East Coast Athletic Confer
ence) referees. None of the ECAC refs 
had ever officiated at a game for Ithaca,
This was especially upsetting in light of 
several calls which may be at best, be con
sidered debatable. Of particular question 
was the fog call, which occurred just beThe TARTAN is sponsoring a Holiday contest. Set last page for details.
fore the end of a quick Tartan drive downfield to the Ithaca 5 yard line, with only a 
little more than a foot to go for a first 
down. When play resumed after a 1316. 
minute delay, the Tartans settled for a 3 
point field goal which made the score 
3-0.
Many fans at the game snid that the fog 
was bad from the stait (Seorebdi?d? 
You couldnt See it..., We couldnt 
tell if there was anybody on the other 
side of the field), suggesting that the game 
should never have begun,and certainly not 
halted right when CMU was in such good 
position. It just killed the momentum, 
said one fan. Why kickoff? Why start?
Jim Banner, head of the Athletic De
partment, explained that the fog decision 
did not come from the referees but from 
the two nonIthaca, non-CMU NCAA 
officials at the game (NCAA allocates one 
judge for each game in the quarter finals, 
two in the semi-finals, and the entire board 
watches the final game). Banner said that, 
from his viewpoint, the fog actually wor
sened after the game began, and that the 
NCAA officials acted correctly. It was 
one of those freak things, he said, it 
wouldnt happen again in a million years. 
When asked about his judgement of the 
ECAC referees, Banner replied that I 
thought they were very good... very just 
and very fair.
Several people, however, expressed anger 
at a scooped Ithaca touchdown pass as 
well as what they termed blatant holding 
calls. At one point we were all shouting, 
Hey, Ref, watch--, watch him! reported 
a parent. But they never listen to you, 
anyway.
What upset many people, particularly 
parents, were the reported extra-game 
situations which the players found them
selves in. For lunch on Friday before the 
Saturday game, when the team first arrived 
in Ithaca, the players were served one ham
burger and one shake (they had left early 
in the morning, with no organized team 
breakfast). After some consideration, an 
extra round of hamburgers were ordered 
which, according to Mr. Banner and con
trary to several versions of others, was paid 
for by the Athletic Department.
Parents and some fans were also angry 
over the group of people who were flown 
to Ithaca along with the team and coaches
hole in the wall which separates the two 
rooms that is four inches in diameter in the 
mens room, and six inches on the womens 
room side. These people have theorized 
that the suspect waited until he saw a 
woman enter the stall which has the hole 
in its wall. He then could have easily walk
ed ten feet down the hall to the womens 
room.
Although he had not known about the
on a chartered plane. Theres a big ques
tion, said one person, whether or not 
parents [on the plane] paid for their 
seats. There was also some wonder as to 
why the statistician and the spouses of 
several Athletic Department, personnel work
ing with the team were not taken along be
fore administrative personnel, faculty, and 
parents. Cx /
Banner re'.,., u We. had three days
to work (out the nangements)...NCAA 
pays tourist class (o'lv) for the offical 
party. Believe me. no oke got a free ride.
Part of the arrangements made did 
not include a practice field for the Tar
tans. When asked about a Friday after
noon practice on asphalt in street clothes, 
Banner said that it was a walk-through 
of a few plays by the offensive line. 
Coach Klausing does not practice on Fri
days unless,theres been rain or a bad prac
tice during the week,he added.
What was evident in interviews with 
people connected to the team was a real 
concern over the budgeting practices and 
cost-consciousness of the Athletic Depart
ment. One example cited was the teams 
desire to remember Jim Starr, a receiver, 
who passed away over the summer, by 
wearing black armbands during the season.
Reportedly, the Athletic Department 
was asked to pay for the armbands but re
fused, and the money came from a coachs 
own pocket. Banner denies this, saying 
that they got their armbands...(and) it 
came out of the Athletic budget.
Regardless, one person characterized the 
Athletic Department spending policies as 
penny-wise and dollar foolish. You see 
how the football team is suffering, added 
another.
(Editors note: several persons, when
asked whether or not their names could be 
used in this article , declined for fear of 
reprisal. In the interest of these few, all 
names excluding that of Banner have been 
deleted from the text.)
hole, Castelli assured the TARTAN that he 
would personally check out the situa
tion. According to another female stud
ent, the hole has been in the wall for the 
entire semester. She also said that even 
though the area is patrolled by Cftmpus 
Police, there are 1001 ways to get into 
this building.
The assailant liad not been apprehended 
as of press time, and his description is as 
follows:
white, male 
about 510 tall 
age-20-2 3
slim, with a very pale complexion 
shoulder length light brown hair, parted 
in the middle 
mustache
On Friday, he was wearing an orange 
zippered sweat shirt with a white T-shirt 
underneath, faded blue jeans, and tennis 
shoes.
ACTIVITIES FEE REFERENDUM
The Activities Fee Referendum sponsor
ed by Student Senate is scheduled for 
tomorrow. All students are encouraged 
to express their opinion on raising the 
fee by voting in the referendum. See 
pages two and five in this issue of the 
TARTAN for more information.
See page 8 for CMU President Cyert's latest Tax Reform action.
Brother killed 
in car crash
by Pete Levin
At 1:30 last Friday morning, three 
brothers of the CMU fraternity Phi Kappa 
Theta were invelved in a serious car acci
dent in the Hill district of Pittsburgh, re
sulting in the death of one brother and 
serious injuries to another. The natural 
grief and concern of those who knew the 
brothers was increased by many confusing 
circumstances surrounding the accident 
and the identity of the man who died.
The dead man, Lance Taylor, was 
placed on academic suspension last spring 
by CMU. He was still living in the frat 
house this fall. Taylor was twenty years 
old, but was carrying the identification of 
Ray Poknski, a Phi Kap junior in Mechan
ical Engineering, whose drivers license said 
he was twenty-two years old. When the 
police tried to contact Taylors parents, 
they called Polanskis instead, as that was 
the name on the identification.
Although the police did not my that 
their son was dead, they did tell the 
Polanskis that Ray was seriously hurt in 
an automobile accident, and because of 
the fal se identification they were put 
through a night of great stress and emotion. 
When the rad stations broadcast the 
details of the accident, including the name 
of the fatality, me of the brothers ofmitinuM on

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
Raise it!
Student leaders at CM U are frustrated. The activities they 
run are seriously hurting in terms of participation and qual
ity of service. And it looks as though things wont improve 
until the activities are better funded.
Spending on student-run, student-funded activities totals 
$144,927, or $15 per student per semester. This is not 
enough to maintain the present quality of the services and 
activities that the organizations provide, let alone to intro
duce new activities and organizations which should be of
fered at a university like this.
Comparing CMU to other universities of its size and cali
ber may clarify a few points: We have one of the best 
Electrical Engineering departments; CMUs computer 
facilities measure up to the best in the world; and our 
Drama department continually turns out superb stage 
performers.
Yet CMU simply does not compare to most universities 
in number, variety, and quality of student activities. CMU 
is part of the Ten University Group whose member univer
sities compare in quality of academic programs, size and 
selectivity of student body, et cetera. (The Ten University 
Group meets monthly to discuss mutual problems.) After 
polling student government members from several of 
these universities, it is obvious that CMU is out of the race 
when it comes to quality extra<urricular activities and 
social life. When it comes to student activities, CMU is in 
the minor leagues.
A good part of the reason for this is the lack of funding
for CMUs student activities, due in large measure to the
lack of funding by students through the Activities Fee. The 
following is a list of some of the Ten University Group 
members Activities Fees:
MIT (approx.)..........................................................$100/year
Case Western...............................................................$70year
University of Rochester^............................................................. .$64/yi \
Vanderbilt University....................................$62.85fy .
Dartmouth...............................................................$62year '
Duke................................................................................$60year
Cal. Tech........................................................................$45year
Carnegie Mellon..........................................................$30year
Tomorrows referendum concerning the Activities Fee is 
the second opportunity of the year for students to show 
some concern for the way things are done around here. We 
virtually ignored the first one (Senate elections  see edito
rial in November 13 edition of the TARTAN). Lets not 
waste the little bit of power we do have. Your vote for an 
increase in the Activities Fee is more than a vote for im
proved activities  Its a vote of confidence in each other.
The TARTAN supports the $20 increase in the fee. At 
least then, we might be dose to where we should be in 
comparison to the competition.
VOTE IN TOMORROWS REFERENDUM (see notice on 
page 5).
Protect us!
The conditions of the sub-basements in Doherty Hall are 
appalling. No wonder there was an attempted rape in the 
area last Friday night. There was a hole in the wall between 
the men's and womens bathrooms the size of a large 
grapefruit, nn outside door near the scene of the attack 
which is supposed to be locked was readily forced open.
Several studios used by art students, many of whom are 
women, are located in the Doherty Hall sub basements. This 
combination of female students working late at night and 
unsafe conditions presents an extremely dangerous 
situation.
The University should take immediate action to correct 
this inexcusable lack of protection for its students.
In memoriam
We extend our sincere sympathies, on behalf of the student 
body, to the parents, relatives, brothers, and friends of 
Lance Taylor.
X REIHlEIYieeR WHEW VO) WBR Di>T A UTTLE CjUV
Stampede in the dark
Editor:
I am neither Persian, nor was I 
born in Iran. Neither looking 
foreign nor having an accent 
eliminates the possibility of one 
from being a citizen of the U.S. 
So stop asking me (and others) 
,f I am Persian.
It was the Japanese, including 
American Japanese, who needed 
protection at one time; now its 
the Persians! Imagine, we are 
forced to warn Persian students, 
any Persian, and anyone who may 
look or sound like one, to keep a 
low profile!
There exist a number of bored 
individuals who are capitalizing on 
the recent issue, getting emotion
al, and making their lives more 
exciting by making others quite 
miserable. Since they neither have 
enough imagination, nor a suf
ficient dose of intelligence, these 
turkeys show their allegiance to 
the U.S. by asking too many ques
tions to people who may be guilty 
only of being there at the wrong 
time.
There seems to be a tendency 
for some people to either cook up 
an incident or wait for an event 
to let it all out. Following the 
Steelers and Pirates victory cel
ebrations, I should not be sur
prised to witness violence or 
harassment as means of satis
fying ones needs or whims.
It is unfortunate that these
letters
anomalies add to the negative 
view that certain people/organi
zations hold of Americans. Per
haps they are the ones who should 
be deported!
I am not naive enough to be
lieve in everything this nation 
supposedly represents, but I 
thought privacy was respected in 
the U.S.; is it? I thought one was 
innocent until proven guilty; is 
one? I thought this country was 
the exemplar of such noble ideas 
as freedom, human rights, and 
pursuit of happiness. Is it?
I often hear students accuse 
others of being a socialist, a for
eigner, or even of being a pacifist. 
If one does not have the freedom 
to think, feel, and look the way
TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 11 
December 4, 1979
Editor in Chief: Publication Manager: Managing Editors:
Business Manager: Production Manager: Doug Kirsop Lynn EpsteinSports Editor: Magazine Editor: Photography Editor:
Perry Colosimo Susan Borg Robert Zusman
Jean Pellegrini Michael Brzustowicz Neil Adler Brian Byrnes Karen Stevens Smita PaiNews Editor:Features Editor:Entertainment Editors: Alan SperoMelody Mazzie
News: Beth Arden, Pete Levin, Asst. Editors.Tim Barkwell, Jim Bost,Sue Brillman, Jeanette Bryan, Anne Cesnlk, Linda Dickerson Larry Duffee, Ed Frankberry, Chris Gebhardt, Andre Jenkins, Mark Kennet, Pete Levin, Chris Magyai, Joshua Melvin. Deb Morgas, Debbie Nir. Elliot Ohlberg. Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan. Vernon Valentine, Sue Wilkin, Elsie Yoder,
Eddie Zayas.
Features: Jeanne Abmayr, Lisa Andruzzi, Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Valerie Brandt. Art Benjamin, Michael Conroy.Chris Gebhart, Bob Gleason, Roger Harris, Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Kwasi Mensah, David Mills, Sheryl Sarima.Stu Seidman.
Entertainment: Ed Slosky. events editor; Scott Alburger, Kate Bertrand, Bob Henry, Dave Kirby, Paul L. Kravits, Cheryl Goodman. Timothy LeVan, Joan Livitski, Paul Mendler, Gretchen Miller, Aline Naters, Debbie Nir, Scott Schaffer, David Sheward.Ted Smits. Vernon Valentine.
Sports: David Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht. Ronnie Ben-Aron, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump, Frank Pugliano,Scott Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Producton: Suzanne Chan, Ken Kulak, Gretchen Miller, Ken Salem, Sue Wilkin, Ed Zayas.
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd, Skip Stong.
Art: Tom Hart, Acting Director; Robert Conroy, Andy Epstein, Tina Klem, Tom Megalis.
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206.

---------------------------------------------------

views
How can engineers and humanists hate each other?
This view is authored by Shaun 
R.Morrisey, a graduate student in 
Physics.
I have watched, with some 
amusement, and with some regret, 
the recent discussion of the rela
tive merits of studies and stu
dents in the humanities versus 
those in science and engineering. 
( The labels are inadequate, but 
they will have to do.) 
I have read proponents of both 
viewpoints, and a number of peo
ple who have claimed, quite rea
sonably, that there is merit in 
both worlds. However, a more 
basic question seems to have 
been ignored. Why do these erup
tions occur at all?
With some generality, the star
ting volley comes from the tech
nology types. What is the source 
of this bitterness? For the mo
ment, I choose to ignore questions 
about allocation of resources on 
this campus, e.g., what depart
ments should get the largest 
fraction of the available compu
ter space. While such concerns are 
legitimate areas of discussion, I do 
not think they motivate the inten
sity displayed in this debate.
A personal sense of integrity 
requires that I announce that I am 
a science or engineering type. I am 
a graduate student in the Physics 
Department, with some limited 
certification in philosophy, and 
the interest in economics, history, 
and law that intelligent use of the 
vote requires. I hope that this 
makes my biases clear.
From my viewpoint, there are 
three sources of irritation for sci
ence and engineering people which
will lead to voicing derogatory 
sentiments about students and 
studies in the humanities.
I do not claim to be bringing 
any new or particularly original 
insight, but I hope to provoke a 
more useful discussion regarding 
what we call education.
The first source of irritation is 
the classic stereotype of the scien
tist or engineer as unconcerned 
with individuals, humanistic 
knowledge, or the social effects of 
their work. This image persists, 
despite the existence of organi
zations such as the Federation of 
American Scientists, the Union of 
Concerned Scientists, and the 
effort of many scientists and 
engineers to raise ecological ques
tions. It is also annoying because 
of personal evidence available to 
many people in science and engin
eering. I know of professors and 
students of physics who are excel
lent musicians, sophisticated stu
dents of Russian literature, or 
who taught mini-courses in Shake
spearean sonnets. Furthermore, 
the rejection, implicit in this ster
eotype, of the very real part that 
an aesthetic sense plays in both 
science and engineering verges on 
the ludicrous.
Secondly, it seems that the sta
tus of being well-educated has 
been reserved, by humanists, for 
those individuals who are compe
tent in the humanities. This seems 
to include a judgement that the 
effort required to gain a scienti
fic or engineering education is 
either misdirected or of lesser 
value. I find that annoying, and 
possibly dangerous.
As an aside, note that the 
career path from a B.A. in liberal 
arts, to law school, to either civil 
service or elective office, has been 
followed by many in our society. 
This can be done, even at very 
prestigious schools, withouttaking 
a course in physics. Yet, many 
of the issues these people will face 
will have significant scientivic or 
technological components. Are 
these people really well prepared 
for the issues they will face? I am 
not certain, despite their claim to 
being well-educated by the classic 
definition.
The third area of irritation is a 
perception, which I believe is 
legitimate, of a marked asymme
try of effort between the two dif
ferent groups. As a starting point, 
let us consider the argument for 
requiring humanities courses of 
science and engineering students. 
I ignore questions of personal 
benefit, as I do not wish to discuss 
the value of these courses for the 
individual. The responses I would 
get to raising such a question 
would be so automatic that they 
would obscure any useful dis
cussion. ( They would also make 
Pavlovs drooling dogs look like a 
case of random behavior.)
If the purpose of an education 
is to provide poeple with the 
means to understand the world 
around them, both human and 
physical,then an understanding of 
the forces that shape the world is 
an important part of an education. 
Hence, it is reasonable to require 
engineers and scientists to be ex
posed to, and develop some 
understanding of, fields such as
philosophy, literature, history,etc. 
Not necessarily expertise, but the 
minimal competence which would 
enable them to continue on their 
own, if they wish, should be re
quired. By and large, some effort 
is made in that direction.
However, the above argument 
cuts both ways, at least in prin
ciple. If I were to state that the 
effects of teclmology were an un
important part of todays world, I 
would be, correctly, judged a fool. 
Does this mean that some expos
ure to science, and scientific 
thought patterns, would be an 
essential element of becoming a 
well-educated (ideal rather than 
classic definition) human being? 
On the face of it, the answer ap
pears to be yes.
The asymmetry now presents 
itself. It is a rare science or engin
eering degree (undergraduate) that 
does not carry with it a require
ment amounting to a minimum of 
eight courses in the humanities. 
However, it is an almost equally 
rare degree in the humanities that 
does require a similar load in the 
hard sciences. This asymmetry 
provides some grounds for resent
ment.
As a relevant aside, I note that 
one often finds multiple levels of 
basic science courses displayed in 
college catalogs. It seems that 
students from non-scientific cur
ricula are not required to face the 
same rigor in their exposure to 
science as are science and engin
eering students. Perhaps this is a 
courtesy extended by, or required 
of, the science departments. I do
not note the same courtesy being 
extended to the science and engin
eering students. Why do we have
Physics for Poets, and not Eng
lish Literature for Engineers? 
This is another source of irrita
tion , but it also, I think, makes 
some very negative statement 
about relative efforts and abilities.
What, then, can be concluded 
from all this? While the above are 
personal observations, I think 
there is some substance to them. 
Perhaps it is time to consider 
changing what we mean by welleducated. Perhaps it is time to 
eliminate the perceived asym
metry. Indeed, CMU may even be 
the place to start. This might 
mean anything from small changes 
in a particular curriculum, up to 
the establishment of a university 
wide core curriculum. If we are 
going to raise this issue, let it 
lead to either a growth in our 
understanding of the goals of this 
institution, or, given the under
standing, the changes that may be 
needed.
I must acknowledge my debts 
to the many people whose com
ments, writings, and discussion 
have contributed to my opinions 
on this subjects. Regarding dis
cussion, the names ONeil, Con
stant, Hallstein, and Marafino 
come to mind. With respect to 
the writings of others, I must 
acknowledge my obvious debt to 
CP. Snow, and to Swift, Oppenheimer, and others. However, the 
responsibility for this statement, 
and whatever errors it contains, 
is mine.
Straightening the recordone does, then what on earth is a 
free country?
After living in the U.S. for 
eleven years, I am not sure if I 
should call myself Armenian, 
French, Arab, American, Leb
anese, or what? Maybe Ill just 
call myself human (even though 
that is still not an acceptable, 
legal designation) until the poli
tical situation stabilizes and cer
tain students grow up. I should 
not hold my breath, should I?
Advice to anomalies and birdbrains: a) Dont try to identify a 
Persian by his physical features or 
the nature of his accent. Some 
Arabs, Assyrians, Turks, Bulgar
ians, Armenians, Kurds, and 
others have similar features, and 
branding people only by their 
accent and/or physical features 
could be as accurate as saying 
it has four legs, therefore it must 
be a cow. b) Dont just stam
pede in the dark, c) Think twice 
before you say it once to say it 
twice better, d) And if your goal 
is to rid yourself of frustrations, 
jump off a cliff; it wi:l permanent
ly take care of any needs you 
might have or develop.
Arka Kargodorian 
International 
Development and 
Education Department 
University of Pittsburgh
Student center update 
Editor:
This is a copy of a letter I sent
to President Cyert describing the 
activities of a committee formed 
by the administration to investi
gate the building of a student 
activities center:
If you will remember on Nov
ember 12, John Alexander [Direc
tor of AB] and myself met with 
you, and you agreed to set up a 
committee to look into the needs 
of the students, the planning, and 
the financing of a student activi
ties center. I am writing this let
ter to inform you of the develop
ments and problems to date.
On November 13, in response 
to our meeting, Dean Swank 
formed such a committee and he 
appointed me Chairman. I was 
thrilled at the opportunity to 
chair this committee, and I hon
estly believe that this is the most 
important project this University 
could undertake in the next twen
ty years: I am sure a large major
ity of the student body would 
agree that a student activities 
center is badly needed on our 
campus.
By November 15,1 had identi
fied a core group of people to 
serve on the committee. These 
people have agreed to serve on the 
committee to insure that the 
needs and desires of the students 
are incorporated into any final 
plans. These people are Anne 
Witchner (Director of Student 
Activits), Jim Balsom (President 
of SDC), John Alexander (Chair
man of AB), Jean Pellegrini
(Editor-in-Chief of TARTAN).
At the Senate meeting on Nov
ember 27, Dean Swank informed 
me that this week he will be 
sending out announcements of the 
first meeting of the committee 
this week. I also got permission 
from Student Senate to use their 
office.... I was also dismayed to 
learn that in a conversation with 
Dean Swank he conveyed to me 
that you wanted this committee 
to go no further than determin
ing the needs of the students. I 
feel that this would be a grave 
mistake. John Alexander and
myself both understood that this 
committee would also investigate 
financing and planning of a 
student activities center. This is 
the single most important project 
the University could undertake to 
benefit both the students who are 
and will attend this University. 
It will also benefit the admini
stration which could only gain 
more respect and appreciation 
from future students and alumni 
alike. You cannot afford to 
pigeonhole this project - the stu
dents cant afford it either. Please 
reconsider; let us investigate finan
cing, and if the student needs 
dictate it, let us pursue the build
ing of a student activities center...
...1 am sure you have realized 
how strongly I feel on this issue, 
and a large number of students 
feel as strongly as I do.
Sincerly, 
Scott A. Miller
Editor:
In the interest of avoiding any 
misunderstanding or misrepresen
tation of our organization, The 
International Student Organiza
tion (ISO) , I must take objection 
to some rather sloppy reporting 
by Larry Duffee in the article, 
No Iranian Problem Here,which 
appeared in the November 20 edi
tion of the TARTAN. In this arti
cle Mr. Duffee states, According 
to the President of the Interna
tional Students Organization [sic] 
Hubert Wen, I am not aware 
of any Iranian students on cam
pus. In the first place, Hubert 
Wen is no longer the President 
of our organization. (In fact there 
is no such executive position as 
President.) Furthermore, Mr. 
Wen has assured me that he made 
it abundantly clear at the time of 
the interview that any remarks 
made by him were his own and 
that he was not speaking on 
behalf of ISO...
Just to set the record straight, 
ISO is certainly well aware of the 
fact that there are Iranian Stu
dents on campus. Also, we know 
of no incidents involving these 
students arising as a result of the 
current situation in Iran.
ISO regards the foreign student 
population of CMU as being one 
of its greatest assets. By bringing 
together scholars from around the 
world we are all able to enrich 
our understanding and awareness
of other countries, cultures and 
peoples. The purpose of ISO is to 
foster international and inter cul
tural understanding. It is our 
fervent hope that all students at 
CMU, whether from the United 
States, Iran, or whatever country 
of national origin, will take ad
vantage of the golden opportunity 
for personal growth through under
standing, sympathetic awareness, 
and friendship provided by our 
large continent of foreign students.
For those who may wish to 
learn more about ISO, we can be 
contacted through the Campus 
Mail by writing International Stu
dent Organization, Box 181,Baker 
Hall, or by calling Jim Wendorf at 
Ext. 3043 or Ext. 4694. We also 
meet every Thursday evening at 
6:00 PM in Skibo Room 11. Every
one, and this includes Americans 
as well as foreign students, is 
welcomed and encouraged to come 
and join us.
James W. Wendorf 
Chairman, ISO-CMU
Editors note: The TARTAN re
grets the error.
A [sic] letter
Editor:
Im glad to see youve started 
inserting [sic] into your Letters 
column. In the past, I couldnt tell 
whether the illiteracies seen there 
truly reflected the rhetorical 
gracelessness of many CMU stu
dents or instead were rare lapses 
in the journalistic splendor [sic]

---------------------------------------------------

more letters
of the TARTAN.
Since there was that uncertain
ty, you are clearly innocent of the 
admonition in Fowlers Modem 
English Usage: Reviewers and 
controversialists are tempted to 
pretend that [there will be natural 
doubt as to a quotations ac
curacy! , because sic provides 
them with a neat and compend
ious form of sneer. The TAR
TAN would of course never do 
that, it being so scrupulously unpolemical. Keep up the goud 
wurk. [sic]
Mark Bimbaum 
Why?
Editor:
In the November 6 issue of the 
TARTAN you used the wrong ab
breviation for the University of 
Colorado. The proper abbrevi
ation is CU not UC. Dont ask 
why.
Lou Chemstores 
CU 80
The air we breathe
The following letter was submitt
ed to the TARTAN for publica
tion:
Dear President Cyert:
Today is a special day. Exactly 
one year ago today, I started a 
modest campaign to ban smoking 
in the Universitys elevators. Let 
me review the chronology of my 
intermittent efforts, to the best of 
my recollection:
29 Nov 78
I write a letter to you (with 
copies to the Tartan and the 
University Fire Safety Commit
tee) urging you to ban smoking 
in the Universitys elevators and 
post signs to that effect.
31 Jan 79
I am informed that the University 
has decided to ban smoking in the 
Universitys elevators and post 
decals so stating. The decals are to 
have rounded corners so that they 
cant be dog-eared.
3 Oct 79
I see you personally and ask why 
no signs have been posted. You 
say youd like to know the answer 
to that question yourself. You 
decline my offer to paint sten
cilled signs overnight.
4 Oct 79
The University finally orders some 
No Smoking decals for the eleva
tors. They are supposed to arrive 
within three weeks.
19 Nov 79
No Smoking decals are posted in 
the Science Hall elevators. 1 actu
ally get to see one of them. Some 
are removed as soon as theyre 
posted.
20 Nov 79
All the decals in the Science Hall 
elevators are gone. I call your 
office to report this fact.
Mr. President, this raises some 
questions.
1. Why did it take ?o long to 
get so few decals up for such 
a short time?
2. Why did the universitys 
long-awaited, expensive, 
highly-touted, fail-safe, 
supposedly dog-ear-proof 
decals disappear within hours 
after they were put up?
3. How can we have confidence 
in an administration that has 
demonstrated such manifest 
incompetence at such a trivial 
task?
My purpose in this endeavor 
has been to make the University 
environment a little more livable 
for those of us who care about 
the air we breathe. I hereby 
repeat the offer I made to you 
before: give me the paint, and Ill 
have No Smoking signs up over
night.
Sincerely,
Jack Mostow
United we stand ... 
Editor:
I am not writing this letter as a 
CIT student or a MIS student or a 
H&SS student or a fruit or a vege
table or any of the other millions 
of categories that we students 
have divided ourselves into. I 
write this letter hoping to make 
you aware that our petty argu
ments keep us ignorant of the real 
enemythe one that occupies 
Warner Hall. To be more specific, 
as long as we are fighting among 
ourselves there is no way we can 
deal with the excessive increases 
in tuition, or the sub-standard 
housing, or the administrations 
attempts at censorship.
For example, in the last issue 
of the TARTAN it was noted that 
the administration would pay the 
residents of Margaret-Morrison 
Apts, as a reimbursement for late 
arrival of desks and lamps. How
ever the administration stated that 
these payments would end up as a 
part of the housing budget. Thus, 
the students would pay for the administations mismanagement. 
This is an obvious attempt to by 
the administration to get Margaret 
Morrison residents to back down. 
I hope it doesnt work. My advice 
to the Margaret-Morrison residents 
and SDC is get a lawyer. The next 
time you sit down with the ad
ministration and their lawyer, you 
better have your own. I am sure 
you could obtain legal aid for 
free.
Another example of the admin
istration assuming that we are 
stupid are its regulations govern
ing solicitation. I dont need 
daddy to approve of what I 
read. That goes for anything from 
Jane Fondas anti-nuke and antiHooker Chemical literature to 
the Gideons bibles. Certainly, if 
its important enough to hand out 
on the street corner, this fine Uni
versity is offering the information 
in a course.
My last words to the student 
body are WISE UP.
James Patterson 
President, Spirit
Complaints
Editor:
I have been a CMU student for 
about one and one-half years now. 
1 would not characterize myself as 
having an abnormal amount of 
school pride, but I have two real 
complaints about the general 
CMU student body.
The first complaint is graffiti 
on campus. While I have never 
been fond of graffiti, on rare occa
sions it has been entertaining to 
read. However, I do object to the 
meaningless nonsense being scrib
bled upon any handy surface with 
indelible markers. Not only does 
this mar the admittedly small 
beauty of halls and walls, but it 
serves as a yardstick by which the
general level of intelligence (or 
lack thereof) may be gauged. I 
hope it will not come to the 
point where some form of disci
plinary punishment is instituted 
for the thoughtless person(s) 
who now roams this campus, 
marker in hand. Please, if we 
must have graffiti, keep it in the 
bathroom where it belongs.
My second major complaint 
concerns the Science Hall com
puter terminal room and the 
people who use it. Were it not for 
the janitor who daily picks up 
the masses of crumpled and re
jected output, one would not be 
able to move in the terminal 
room, let alone find ones out
put. Never have I seen such care
less wasting of resources. At 
this rate, I am surprised Oregon 
is not bare of trees. There is 
almost no attempt at recycling 
of computer paper. In fact, 
the wasting of paper is encouraged 
by the presence of garbage recep
tacles next to each printing 
terminal. Furthermore, the few 
boxes of recyclable paper (ie. 
neatly refolded and restacked in 
the original boxes) are usually 
buried under piles of garbage and 
lie unknown to all. My point is 
that the situation is not totally 
the users fault. No one has been 
told that all the paper presently 
being discarded could be recycled. 
It takes a few seconds to neatly 
fold unwanted ouput and stack 
it in a box for recycling. If we 
all did this, think of how much 
easier it would be for all to find 
their output!
Phillip E. Unger
ChernE. Grad
Judenrat
Editor:
Here we go with another edi
torial on student apathy. You 
fools, cry the editors, you 
threw away your freedom.
My response is: Wake up, my 
dear editors. We were never free 
in the first place. The 86% of 
students who didnt vote so acted 
because they knew damn well 
voting didnt matter. Voting for 
Student Senate at CMU is about 
as meaningful as voting for 
members of a Judenrat. For 
those of you who forget, a Juden
rat was a fake Jewish council 
set up by Nazis in occupied 
ghettos in Europe, to maintain 
the pretence [sic] that the Jews 
had some voice in their own 
affairs. The Judenrat never voted 
against the Nazis.
The Student Senate is a fake 
for the following reasons:
1) It has no control whatso
ever over school revenues, fees, 
budgets or expenditures.
2) It has no input whatsoever 
in curriculum, testing, grading or 
any academic procedures.
3) Its members are largely 
fraternity-picked and voted-in by 
huge fraternity voting blocks 
which never deviate from their 
own candidates by as much as 
a single vote.
4) Its members refuse to add
ress contraversial issues. Last 
years Student Senate President 
for instance, felt that Senate 
should not express any opinions 
relative to a possible revival of a 
military draft, because (he felt)
Senate should concern itself 
only with Student issues. My own 
feeling is, if the draft is not a 
concern of students, then what 
the hell is?
I dare you to tell me that we 
students have any control at all 
over CMU policy.
Barton Levenson 
Sophomore, Physics
No one can hear you scream 
Editor:
It began, roughly, one month 
ago. I noticed (more precisely, I 
was bombarded by) little blue 
signs announcing: Space Beasties 
are coming. I thought little of it 
until two weeks ago when I, again, 
noticed (excuse me, was bom
barded by) little signs  this time 
red  which read: Space Beasties 
are landing.
I can not impart to you one 
fraction of the terror which 
spread through my soul. It is one 
thing for Space Beasties to come. 
It is, however, an entirely dif
ferent matter for them to land. I 
have several questions to ask of 
the student body, or anyone, for 
that matter, who might be able to 
answer. Who are the Space Beast
ies? Why are they coming? When 
will they land? Most importantly, 
what will happen when they get 
here?
I would like to remain anony
mous, for fear of reprisals from 
angry Space Beasties.
Name Withheld By Request
True professionals 
Editor:
I belieye it is time that we re
turned to the philosophy of ed
ucation that seperated Carnegie 
Tech from the rest of the lot. We 
need to return to the values that 
made an education at CIT a pro
fessional preparation and not 
merely limited technical training.
I quote Elliot Dunlap Smith, 
. . .If the humanistic and social 
education of professional students 
is to be truly cultural and social, it 
must play an important part in 
making their life work cultivated 
and socially valuable. If it is to 
be an enduring and vigorous force 
in their professionally predomi
nated lives, it must so unite pro
fessional ability and the ability to 
deal with human and social prob
lems that growth in professional 
stature involves growth in per
sonal and social stature.
Only if this is accomplished 
can humanistic and social edu
cation serve to make the stu
dents life as a professional man 
increase his resonance and abil
ity to respond to social, human, 
and spiritual values, whether they 
occur in his work, in his home, or 
in his community. Only if this is 
accomplished can technical educa
tion be lifted to the truly profes
sional level.
We seem to be moving farther 
and farther from this goal of a 
truly professional level. The new 
spirit emphasizes technical edu
cation to the exclusion of all 
human responsibility. When we 
train young people without a 
values education, we send them 
out caring little if their abilities 
are used to better mankind or to 
create new, more efficient death 
camps; we send them out asking
only that they be paid well.
In conclusion, it is apparent 
that the needs of professional 
education have long been a con
cern of educators at CMU. The 
plans, the ideas, and the methods 
of this education remain to chal
lenge each generation of edu
cators. I will refine the old saw 
about the value of history  if 
there is one thing we learn from 
history, it is those who are ig
norant of history learn nothing 
from it.
William Boggs 
Dept, of English
Perception
Editor:
Man is by nature an abstract 
being whose thinking is not lim
ited to the concrete information 
underlying technology. His life
style reflects a need for the 
aesthetics which are interwoven 
into his daily routine. Everytime 
he reads a piece of literature 
or admires a work of art or thinks 
out a problem logically he is 
employing his perceptual abilities. 
A deep void would afflict any 
person who was totally ignorant 
of the humanities and social sci
ences. This unenlightenment can 
be like any handicap which pre
vents a human being from inter
acting properly with the outside 
world.
Obviously, the outlet offered 
by the arts is invaluable. To revel 
in the beauty of The Starry 
Night by Vincent vanGogh or 
to marvel at the grandeur of 
Tchaikovskys music is beneficial 
in itself. However, there is also the 
seeminly more practical side to 
the humanities and social sciences. 
The necessity for communication 
between foreign countries entails 
not only a knowledge of their 
languages but also their histories 
and social philosophies. Ergo, 
people with a background in the 
languages and in history are essen
tial to our countrys foreign 
policies. Yet, man is still in need 
of philosophy which can be found 
at the root of science and law. 
Mans capacity to reason is a 
gift that must be tuned and condi
tioned as a fine instrument, in 
order to perform correctly. Man 
also profits when he is familiar 
with the workings of his own 
mind. The multifarious subject of 
psychology aids man in a better 
perception himself and his fellow 
human beings. It is closely inter
related with the sciences but pos
sesses the subjectivity which is 
sometimes lacking in the other 
sciences. In another area, there are 
the economists who play an 
important role in this countrys 
financial stability. Perhaps our 
countrys economy is not flawless, 
but it would be far worse for the 
lack of economists, who observe 
and remedy any fault in the econ
omic system. Government affects 
every side of our lives, and man 
can not ignore its importance. 
The study of the social sciences is 
advantageous to everyone con
cerned to have well-educated peo
ple in positons of power.
The devotion to the arts does 
not dispel any need for the sci
ences. A prime example is Leon
ardo da Vinci whose work in both
continued on page 21

---------------------------------------------------

llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllttlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHllllllllllMllllltMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIItltllllHIIIIIIItlllllItllllllllItlllllllllliiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii^
atouas |uepnis q pepunj
oq;>|s 'jauuoa 'pooMajoyv :sa3D|d 6ui||od
Wd 6 l!*un WV OL 
6Z.6L ' Jaqiuesea 'AopsaupaM
33d S3I1IAIOV
jnoA 6ArAappAep
Wn<lN3d3J3d
X 6u;t3npuo3 aq RREI eiouds juaprus
310 A
li asn
4uauiujaAoo luepnis 
jnoA o*uj indui 04 iq6i-i o oadij nox
Wllllfllllllllllltllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllltlllllllllllllllllll.............................................................................................................................................................................................Illlllflll....Ili IMMI Mtlll II II IDI il Itltll II Ulti lltr^
UOIJBDOJ gqj
joj >fsgp uoijbuijojuj oqp{s gqj jb >pgqg 
ppioqs sjugpnjs pgjsgjgjui uid QO'i JE 
 g jgquiaoaQ uo ppq aq qiM jpunco Xjojiiu 
-joq juapnjs aqj jo 3uijaaui jxau aqi
**aouBQ jajuiM 3dS* * S iaquiaoaa 
OO: 6 uuoa 
jpajg Xpnjs IUH ~P Jaquiaoaa
:aiB
japuajBD aqj uo sajBp juBjJoduq
S3AIJBJU3Sai
-dai Jiaqj jdbjuo? oj pa3jn ajB mbjq stJBaX 
jsbj j3ao sju3ui3AOjduii ajqissod joj sBapi 
jo sjuiBjduioD sjuauiuioa qjiM sjuapnjs 
Xub puB  mbjq uioo>j Suuds joj suoijsg88ns 
SupjBj Xjjuguno si ggjjiuiuio^ Suisnoj-j
dn-ppnq juiBd
aiqBJisapun aqj jo asnBoaq uoijBzuoqjnB
jnoqjiM uiooj jpqj juiBd oqM sjuapnjs 
3JBip [JIM SuiSnOJJ pajjiunad jou si suiooi 
JO SuiJUlBd S3SBD 3UIOS UT jBqj paUOIJ 
-usui osjb sbm jj ajnjnj jbsu aqj ui ppq aq 
jjim sjuapnjs juauijiBdB uosmoj^ jaiBgjB^ 
Xq uoijijad aqj jnoqB sibXmbj jdbjjuod sji 
puB uoijBJjsiuiuipy aqj qjiM Suijaaui b jBqj 
saAijBjuasgjdgj pjoj ggjjiuiui03 Suisnojj
J9UU0Q
Ul pgflBJSUI 9q OJ OS|B SI 9Uiq9BUI gUBqO 
V  BUU9JUB tSU9pjBQ pOOMgjO^ gqj JO 
uoijBfjBjsui jBijJBd gqj puB  gjqsj 3uod-8uid 
XjigqoQ gqj jo uoijbjjbjsui gqj pgounou 
-ub suoijBAOugy suqij pgjosuods-^QS StJ9* 
-S9UI9S JX9U JOJ 0003$ P993X9 OJ JOU UOIJB3 
*OJ|B UB pUB SU9pjE0 pOOM9JO]^ JOJ OUBld
pgsn b Xnq oj uoijsudojddB 0S$ B papnp 
-ui suoijoui snouBy\ oqi^s ut uid qo: 
8c J9qUI9AOfsI XBpS9Up9^ UO J9UI 3QS )(B|n>| U8>| Aq
i3SV31d   
JOOd 3H1 dii N3dO
aDeds 3QS 3M1
*S90Bid 9|qB^ins gjoui ui sju9ui9|duii jpqj 
UBgp puB juiBd srqdjns ipqj jo gsodsip oj 
90U9J gqj jo SJOJBJOD9P gqj gjoiduii 9M 
*UBUIOM pUB UBUI MO|pj S49UO IOJ UOIJBJ9
-pisuoD jo ;no puB HHl HY sjsgjgjui gqj uj
flBH X;j9qoQ jo
pU9 JSB9 9qj JB XJOJBABI UIOO^J StU9J\ 
9qj ui s8uiqsBM pjjonq puB qstuq juiBd 
JO 9npiS9J 9qj puB S99JJ 9JOUIBOX XqJB9U 
9qj uo sgqsniq juiBd |BJ9A9S jo SuidiM 
9qj 90U9J gqj puiqgq XpjBipguiuii 5({bm 
-gpis aqj uo ijijjbjS pajuiBd jo juauiyossB 
ub jo  qjnos jaqjjnj ssaoui auo sb Xj9aoo 
-sip aqj Xq paiJBui si pajja aqj jsasmoh 
SJJOJJ9 jaqjBja qjiM anjBA smsu puB auiaqos 
JOJOD JOJ JI SuiJBduiOD pUB 30U3J 3qj 
uo XB]dsip jsa^Bj aqj SuiAjasqo si jnD aqi 
SSOJDB 5(|BM SUIUJOUI X|JB9 UB JO S3JnSB3|d 
aqi JO 3UO T1ND W uoijipBjj paMo^Bq 
b 3jb saSBSsaui sji puB 9DU3J joluas aqx 
doudj dm SuipjvS 
-du QO'ii DDisAyj Jo uojJdiQ sdiuinj 
SuitfsrQ gOWid oiudiu v si 8OgoWiiWd dyj
papnpuo3 qpjsB3 ti9Jojaq 
J9AO UBqi aojoj juapduioo gjoui b sjb 
3m jBqj paj 1 puB sn 8uidpq sjb sjuapnjs 
aqi aurj pa^jJOMSBq uiajsXs aqj jbj os
qSjnqsuij
ui B9JB duiuo jsaqSiq aqj Ra pajp
SEM PUBPIBO JE3X JSB^ -llpjSB3 SXBS 
t/3jqnoj; petRtmad puB snduiBD aq^ uo petetii 
nD3UI3J3 spisino sqj si uisjqojd etaet jno 
t/ui3qj o; usddBq ppoo ot ssnBosq 
uaddsq s8uiqj jou p|noqs ^doaj,, 
pappB 90ind 'Il9JSB3 psi^js itsuuop jpqj 
ui oi snduiBO uo aas Xaqj jBqj sjapBJBqo 
snopidsns hea oi aouajoiA jo spB hea 
puijjodaj sjuapnjs si ooips siqj ui 9ABq 9M 
JBqi 3UJTJD OJ SJU9JJ9J9p JS3q 9q^ JO 9UO 
991JJO St5JUBM UB9(J OJ J9AO p9UJflJ SBM 
UOIJBI1JIS 9qx '90inOd plBS 9J9qAvXj9A9 
S4aa PUB SflBAV 9qj UT S9|Oq 8UIAB91 
gSunoi 9Uo dn joqs pBq 9H xgiduioo 
pooAvgjoj^ gqj ui un g g a qjiM jugpnjs
judppui i{DVd uoj 001$ UVW 
duoui jou uo 0$$ udi/j ssdj jou Jo duij v snjd 
uoyjipuoo ivuiSu oj uoijDjojsdu Jo jsoj 
uopBziJoqjnB jnoqjiM sguq Xjqrjn Xjis 
-jgAiun SuijgjjB jo SuiddBj spunojS jo sui 
-pimq XjisJ9Aiun oj suoijbj9^b Sui?{bjv
rsMonoj sb pgSuBqo si 5(00qpuBH 
jugpnjs gqj jo 55 93bj - sgijjBugg puB 
suoijB{n9y Xjisj9aiuq 9jqB; gqj ui sguq 
Xjqpn X}isJ9Aiuf[ 3uij9;ib jo SuiddBj uo 
uoipgs gqj uoijBjnggj gqj jo SuipjOM 
gqj ui 9UBqo siqi qjiAV JU9JSISU03
uoipB
XjBuqdpsip oj pgfqns si uoijBzuoqjnB 
jnoqjiM spunojS HY sSutppnq sguq iHEe 
WV9AIUQ SuiJSjjB ilI iOl OE HY SuiddBX
5JJOM
gqj qjiM uoipguuoo ui suigjsXs XjisjgAiufj 
jgqjo qjiM gougjgjjgjui HY XjgjBS jo suoi} 
WlRYE) ou puB gpoojosuoijBjoiA ou gjB gjgqj
jBq; gjnsui o; uoipiduioo sji 8uimo|joj 
5|jom gqj jo uoipgdsui joj gpBUi gjB s;ugui 
-gSuBJJB pus uoissiuugd Sui;ubj8 uosjgd gq; 
oj g^qB[iBAB gjB suBjd gpiduioo ugqM Xjuo 
ugAiS gq jjim uoissiuijgd qon -(spunoj 
puB suip{inq snduiBO jgqjo |jb jo gsBD gqj 
ui) jubjj [BDisXqj jo (sguojiuuop puB sgpiu 
-jgjBJj jo gsB3 gqj ui) goyjo Suisnon gqj jo 
uoissiuugd uguiJM gqj jnoq^iM sguq Xjqijn 
XjisjgAiuQ ojui dBj jo jgj|B jo spunoiS puB 
sSuipjinq XjisjgAiufj oj suoijBjgjjB g?{Bui 
Xbui uoijbziubSjo jugpnjs jo jugpnjs o^ saun X411PQ puB spunojQ sSuip{ing 
JSMO^OJ SB pgUBip
uggq SBq 5{ooqpuBH ugpnjs 08-66I 
9lIl J 8 uo sguiq Xji[ijfi Suipgj 
-jb uoi}Bjngj gqj X[gjBipguiuii gAipgjjg 
:sdufi Qijijn SuijodJJv uoijojnSdj Jo dSuvifo 
v 2OgOOu'OW' ouidui jOgoWigWd di{j pdsvdpu
SUVJJV JUdpnjS J uvdQ yuDMg djuvg
siepueA uoiudny
l jo uoisugqgjddB gq; el)B jBgX siqj pgjno 
WXY ^Bqj uisqBpuBA jo jugppui jgqjouy
piBS inajSBj t4*uA\op joop l >[Bgjq 
oj gABq jqSiui g^\ Xjjnq l OE OEYYH l YHOE 
p8 oj gABq gM HE jBq^, -Suippnq uosnjop^ 
jgjBSjBjv 9llJ J sjoop gqj HHY ug5{Bj sqou>[ 
-joop iOlOE uggq Yel gABq gjgqx D>lT 
gougps ui eOEYYH s4uguioM gqj OEYHH ugpjs 
Supq sjojjim BjgAgs el qons snduiBD uo 
pgjnggo gABq jBqj uisqBpuBA Xjjgd jo 
sjugppui jgqjo pgjBjgj YeHA ingjSB^
ggind Xn^ Jgaijjo P!K ttgot|od 
gqj oj jgAO pgumj gq [jim Xgqj sSuiqsB^s 
gsgqj joj g^qisuodsgj s{BnpiAipui jo |Bn 
"Pi ai pur gqj ipjBO op gM ugq\\ qpjsB^
pgjBjs 4iSBgjB jq ^gM Xsnq ui puB ssgjs 
pgpnpgs ui XBp gqj guijnp jq8iu jb 
ugddBq Xgqj gsnsogq ujgjjsd jgs ou gABq 
oj sjBgddB sSuiqsBjs gjij jo qsBJ gqi
t/uoijBnjis gqj 
dojs puB Xjj oj sjo| SuiijJBd snduiBO gqj 
jo sjojjBd jno pgsBgjoui gABq gM puB gAis 
-sgoxg si gBuiBp jo junouiB gqx,, sSuiqsBts 
gjij jo jjnsgj gqj uggq SBq gBuiBp gqj jo 
jsoui ggqoj snduiB3 jo lojogjiQ ingjsB3 
pUBuijy jq oj Suipjoooy ^nduiBD flWD 
gqj uo sjugpnjs Xq pguMo sjbd oj guop gB 
-uiBp jo qjjoM 0001$ JgAO uggq SBq gjgqj 
 JBgX [ooqos gqj jo SinuuiSgq gqj gouis 
aa^riQ Thhis Ag
snq 03i|od Su;dda>| uisi|epu^A
g aBecjNVltVl-6Z.6L > JaquJaoaQ

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANDecember 4, 1979
&0OD AFTtlWooN, TOW* 
I'D UK TO SPtPK
fAo^n(nw^&iuGft 
COLLEGE CAFt^WA
as iK) anv usiuess, 
THE 0acr IS TO 
%uv UT% wo -men 
reau.-< sooc-e the. 
CONSunt. W'TH
63nfttiALrr wm mets.
TH\S ^ 0* POUOi AT Foot) SEWilCES.
6t| Sieve Conroy
1 ViOUtt> UN* TO ILLUSTRATE TW\S WITH AM EXNW.E,...
FOORYEWS AtO DURING THfc. METVT S>HOfcr*<y=. 1 HAmtttD TO UHK BY ARCHITECTS LEAP. IT WAS RlOHT AFTER Hit* SEMESTER ANt> 83 ARCHITECTS HAD Ctt<KN TO HAKE THE JOW1EY TO THAT Bit DRAFTINGWWD 1*01Vt SXf.
THEY HA> OBVIOUSLY fcE THERE FOR A FEW DAYS, AND NO ONE. HAD UAIMED THE BODIES, SO 1 GOT A FEW C.OOKS NND WE
V)E FOOID THAT A 
MEDIUM SVZ-ED AM.H\TEC.T V)0UUD MAKE 167 TARTAR 
BUYERS.
TARTAN News4
Tuesday at 7 PM
Does Anyone 
Really Care... ?
Bf /g g g
Overseas, millions like this youngster are hungry.
This is a grim reality in today's world. Thousands of these children die each day 
and countless others are physically and mentally impaired because they lack 
adequate nourishment. For millions like this child, life is dark and hopeless 
without outside aid.
Won t you hep? Each dollar you send to CARE will give a serving of 
nutritious food to 50 hungry children.
Please care . . . hunger hurts, and it hurts children hardest.
CARE. 400 5th AVE.
^ PITTSBURGH. PA. 15219
Here is my $
Name
Address
CityStateZipChecks made payable to CARE are tax deductible
/
Racing to the future
Mechanical Engineering students will 
tests run Vehicles of the future on a 30 
mile, 3 5 lap course through Schenley Park 
on Sunday, December 9, from 7 AM to 10 
AM.
Under the direction of Dr. John Purcupile, associate professor of Mechanical 
Engineering, ten competing groups of 
senior design students have designed and 
constructed vehicles which they feel will 
meet transportation needs when gasoline 
is scarce or non-existent and any fuel is 
expensive. Our objective is to provide the 
senior student with a challenging project 
which involves planning, research and 
development, says Purcupile, while at 
the same time having practical applica
tion.
Each vehicle must meet certain regula
tions to insure driver safety. Each must be 
statically stable, with at least three wheels, 
and must pass a safety inspection with
emphasis on effective braking, dynamic sta
bility and protection of the driver from 
moving parts. Engine size is limited to 
fifty cubic centimeters, but some will use 
pedal-power as well. Top speeds should be 
about 20 m.pJi.
Vehicles will be judged to determine 
whether they successfully meet design cri
teria. One of the key elements in the de
sign process is for the designer to clearly 
understand his design goals, says Purcu
pile. While this may seem quite obvious, 
many designs falter because the designers 
fail to fully understand these goals. 
Awards will be presented to the winning 
teams on Thursday, December 13,at 7 PM 
in the Scaife Hall Auditorium. Vehicles will 
be on display at that time.
The course begins near the Westinghouse Memorial, through the Schenley 
Park golf course and back again. In case of 
bad weather, the race will be held the 
following Sunday, December 16.
Working for good business
WPPJ, the Point Park College radio sta
tion,'is involved in a special project with 
the Better Business Bureau (BBB) of Wes
tern Pennsylvania designed to provide fast, 
authoritative information to area consu
mers.
The staff members are producing the 
new BBB Tel-Tips -a series of two-min
ute recorded messages available to con
sumers by phone.
When a consumer calls the BBB, the op
erator notes the subject of the inquiry and 
selects and plays the appropriate tape. Top
ics include buying through the mail, rights 
under warranty and purchasing insurance.
The 125 BBB Tel-Tips are being pro
duced by WPPJ as a public service. According to Ed Wisniewski, station general mana
ger and chief engineer, the students are in
volved with writing the scripts as well as 
announcing and recording the tapes, plus 
all post-production work, such as tape 
editing.
This is a good experience, Wisniewski 
commented. We are not only doing some
thing for the community, but producing 
Tel-Tips is excellent professional experi
ence for the staff.
WPPJs efforts, which are credited at the 
end of each tape, will probably reach be
yond Pittsburgh. The Pittsburgh BBB TelTips, inaugurated on September 27 as the 
first in the nation, will be used across the 
country by other Better Business Bureau 
offices.
FREE CLASSIFIEDS
In the December 11th 
TARTAN 
(15 word maximum)
Say anything you'd like 
to anyone you'd like. 
Mail this form to 
the TARTAN Box 17 
by December 16th

---------------------------------------------------

The average Senatefunded club gets 
about 90 cents per student! 
Do you want better activities on campus? 
Vote to increase the activities fee!
BUDGETS: 1979-80
1978-19791979-1980
ORGANIZATIONAllocatedApprovedChange
Activities Board$57885$55224Decrease
Activities Fair20051750Decrease
Astronomy Club290100Decrease
Baseball Club30452313Decrease
Chess Club165100Decrease
Club Francophone330450Increase
Computer Club100238Increase
Explorers' Club301321Increase
Faculty Course Evaluation18002000Increase
Forbes Street Gallery27352521Decrease
Hockey Club46504940Increase
Jazz Ensemble575575No Change
Karate Club330337Increase
Law Club507334Decrease
Pathfinder Orienteering Club 379240Decrease
Peer Help Center12301305Increase
Rent-a-Tech1212838Decrease
Ski Club115130Increase
Society of Automotive Engineers 235235No Change
Student Government Fund_ 30003000No Change
Student Senate27552610Decrease
Tartan2212220648Decrease
Tech Flying Club335335No Change
Ultimate Frisbee363350Decrease
Volleyball Club660650Decrease
WRCT1248817483Increase
Totals$119612$118027Decrease
This table is from the Senate Budget Hearings Report.
If you really want good activities, 
vote for a $20 increase per year. 
Are good activities worth about 2% of 
the total costs of CMU? 
Vote December 5 in Morewood, Donner, Skibo
Ad furnished by the TARTAN 
Partially-funded by the Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8TARTANDecember 4, 1979
Cyert announces public tax hearings
CMU President Richard M. Cyert, chair
man of the Pennsylvania Tax Commission, 
today announced that a series of five state
wide public hearings have been scheduled 
by the commision beginning November 29.
The purpose of these hearings, Cyert 
said, is to seek reforms in Pennsylvanias 
tax structure to insure, as Governor 
Thornburg has emphasized repeatedly, that 
no Pennsylvanian pays more than his or 
her fair share of taxes in the years ahead. 
To do this, Cyert said, public hear
ings will seek alternatives to our reliance on 
property taxes for support of education; 
will help to design a tax structure that will 
enable Pennsylvania to compete with other 
states for jobs and economic development; 
and will make certain that public money 
is not wasted on outdated tax systems. 
The following is the schedule of public 
hearings and their locations, and the spe
cific tax reform issues assigned for review:
November 29 and 30: Philadelphia-The 
unique problems of interrelating taxes 
between the city of Philadelphia and the 
five suburban counties. The Philadelphia 
hearing will be held in the City Hall 
Annex, Council Room No. 12, 12th 
floor, commencing at 10 AM.
December 12 and 13: PittsburghThe 
adequacy of the state tax system to 
finance highway maintence and trans
portation development.
January 9 and 10: Harrisburg Local 
nuisance taxes. The taxation of financial 
institutions and insurance companies 
and the problems of the tax administra
tion.
January 30: Erie The impact of the 
tax system on rural Pennsylvanians and 
farmers. The impact of corporate taxa
tion on the creation of jobs in Pennsyl
vania.
Energy contest scheduled
by Andrew Ragan
The Presidents committee on Energy 
Conservation announced a Student Contest 
for Energy-Saving Ideas. The contests 
purpose is to provide a rewarding way for 
students to get involved in energy conser
vation, and as a way to tap the reservoirs of 
CMU students ingenuity. The CarnegieMellon Energy Conservation Committee is 
asking students to submit suggestions on 
ways the University can save energy.
The CMU-ECC is a group of CMU 
administrators, faculty, staff and students 
appointed to address the problems of 
energy waste on campus. The members 
agreed that the committee alone cannot 
deal with energy problems, and that 
success depends on ideas and cooperation 
from everyone on campus, students in
February 7: Scranton The taxation of 
utilities and the effects of the tax sys
tem on energy development and conser
vation.
Each of these hearings will also be con
cerned with the problems of local taxation 
and economic development.
The exact time and location for each of
the other four hearings will be announced 
approximately one week prior to the 
scheduled hearing date. Invitations to testi
fy before the tax commission will be sent 
to community groups and associations. 
Members of the general public interested in 
testifying at any of the public hearings are 
advised to contact the commission at 717- 
787-2500.
Brother killed in crash
continued from page 1
Phi Kap checked Polanskis room an 
found him in bed. After they informed him 
that according to the radio he was dead, 
Polanski immediately called his parents and 
assured them of his safety. He later had to 
identify Taylors body, at Shadyside Hos
pital.
The other two people in the car were
Alan Ciukowski, 20, a sophomore in Elec
trical Engineering, and Christopher Burke, 
21, a junior in Electrical Engineering. 
Burke was still in the hospital as of press 
time with a broken vertebrae. Ciukowski 
suffered some lacerations but was not 
seriously hurt. Ciukowski was driving his 
parents car which was totaled.
particular. Thus, a contest where students 
can win money, get recognition, and help 
the University was designed.
Up to three $25 checks will be awarded 
for the best energy-saving ideas submitted 
in the next two weeks. Whether the con
test will continue after the initial runs 
depends on student interest and response. 
Entries will be judged by an arbitrarily 
picked panel of judges. The winners will 
be announced in the TARTAN.
The first deadline for entries is Tuesday, 
December 18.
Address your entries to:
Energy Conservation Committee 
Rm. 115 Scaife Hall 
And be sure to include your name, 
campus address and student I.D. number. 
Drop them off in campus mail, or leave 
them at the above address.
CAMBODIA IS DYING
T Save the Children
Westport, Connecticut 
06880
GET IT FREE!J Get what free you ask? 1
( Why, free classifieds of course! I
s
| Send your Christmas greetings secret admirer messages, |
S sly remarks, unusual thoughts, etc. via the TARTAN. |
' Hs Keep your thoughts brief please, 15 words at most. |
TARTANSklbo Information Desk orDeadline for submission: Thursday, Dec. 6, 5:00 PM Sklbo 52
................................................................................................................................................................

---------------------------------------------------

December 4; 1979TARTANPage 9
CMU campus police provide escort service
by Larry Duffee
For students who are concerned with 
their safety going across campus or to their 
homes a short distance from the CMU 
campus , there is an escort service provided 
by the Security office to drive students to 
their destination.
Operating between the hours of 7 PM 
and 2 AM, the Escort service is run by
CMU students who are employed by tjie 
Security office; These students carry ident
ification. The Service uses one security van 
to transport students from one part of the 
college to another, or take them to their 
homes if they live within a one mile radius 
of CMU.
Some students have reported delays in 
the Service, claiming that they have had to
SAT scores continue slide
New York, NY -- The long-term decline in 
Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) scores 
among college freshmen is continuing. The 
College Board reports that last Junes high 
school seniors - the falls freshmen -- had 
average SAT-verbal scores two points lower 
than the prior years class average of 429. 
The SAT-math scores dropped one point, 
to an average of 467.
Since the College Board beagan survey
ing college-bound seniors, the 1967 verbal 
test score of 466 has fallen to 1979s427. 
Average math scores were 492 in 1967, 
compared to 1979s467.
Robert G. Cameron, of the Boards 
Admissions Testing Program, called the 
score declines disappointing, especial
ly in light of the new programs many 
schools have installed to reverse the trend 
in recent yean'.
In 1977, a special committee studying 
the decline attributed the falling scores 
to television, changes in the familys role, 
turbulence in national affairs, and lower 
teaching and learning standards.
As a result, schools cannot expect to 
reverse the trend quickly, Cameron said. 
The reasoning abilities which SAT 
measures develop slowly and stubborn
ly over time, both in and out of school. 
Thus, he concluded at a press conference 
here, schools alone cant single-handedly 
force scores higher.
Truth in Testing' attacked
The Association of American Medical 
Colleges has filed suit in U.S. District Court 
claiming the New York law requiring dis
closure of answers to standardized tests vi
olates the federal Copyright Act.
Most of the other organizations which 
offer standardized tests for admission into 
colleges, graduate schools or other pro
grams, have announced they will no longer 
give their tests in New York after the dis
closure law takes effect Jan. 1, 1980.
The AAMC, which administers the me
dical school admission test, says the new 
law will have adverse effects on all stu
dents, particularly minorities and those 
attending less prestigious colleges who de
pend more on test grades to prove their 
ability.
The AAMC also maintains that there is a 
limited number of questions relevant 
to a medical school admissions exam, and 
that disclosing answers would not be 
feasible. The test organization has offered 
to give those taking the test a more detail
ed explanation of how they did, by in
cluding 11 subscores in the final test 
results.
1* si si# si# si* si* si# si# si# si# sf. si# sX* si# sj* si si# ^ si# s^/ si sj sj# sX^ si* 1* sj# sj^g si sj# L si siy* ^  ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ y ^ ^ ^ ^ y* 'y'**************************************
******
******
****
*****
THE DEVELOPMENT OFFICE 
ANNOUNCES ITS
1st ANNUAL 
STUDENT PHONEATHON
TO BENEFIT
CMU ALUMNI FUND
* funds raised to be used for student needs *
ALL CAMPUS ORGANIZATIONS ARE INVITED 
TO PARTICIPATE IN THIS WORTHWHILE,
EXCITING PROJECT WHICH WILL BENEFIT 
ALI WHO TAKE PART.
PRIZES WILL BE AWARDED
Phone-A-Thon to take place:
January 7-10 
January 14-17
BFVERAGES F RDM b:00 
.)*']I!\Ki BEGINS A I 
;> Iim pm
If your group of 20 is interested contact - 
KIM SUSKO x2020 5th Flooi; Warner Hall
REGISTER 
BEFORE DECEMBER 17!!!!
see page 13 for more details!!!!!!!!!
**************************
*-*******************************
wait for over one-half hour for the van to 
arrive, during which time their safety was 
in jeopardy. Lt. Armand Castelli, CMU 
Police, explains the delays: Because we 
only have one van, we usually try to get 
about 3 or 4 students per run. Of course 
not everyone wants to go to the same area, 
and the driver usually has to cruise all over 
campus with his load. This takes time. 
But Castelli stated We will not wait 
around for a half hour for a second call if 
a student has called us. We respond right 
away. But sometimes there are several 
calls at the same time.
The CMU escort service is one of the 
first of its types in the area. Says Castelli,
We have received several calls trom other 
colleges asking for advice who want to ini
tiate a similiar program on their campuses.
According to Castelli, the Escort service 
received approximatily 600-700 calls per 
month last year from students/acuity, and 
college staff who are entitled to the service. 
This has put strain on the use of the van. 
Security will assign an officer to 
escort the individual if the van is not 
available.
Guy Pollice, assistant to Castelli, says, 
If the person calls up after 2 AM, we will 
still pick up the person in most cases. We 
do not want to leave a person in the threat 
of danger.
Cohabitation services offered
AUSTIN, TX (CPS)--Statistics show that 
increasing numbers of male and female 
college students are living together. There 
are no comparable surveys of how many 
parents of those cohabiting students know 
about the practice. Now, sure enough, 
theres a business that tries to help stu
dents keep parents ignorant of their 
sexual habits a little longer.
Pamela Douglas, a University of Texas 
student, opened a business called Basic 
Strategy four months ago. For a fee, 
Austin women can use Douglas address as
mail to the daughters correct addresses. 
Parents telephone calls are recorded on a 
phone answering device, and Douglas lets 
her clients know when to call their parents 
back.
I know there were times when id 
maybe spend five out of seven nights 
somewhere other then home, Douglas 
recalls. I always thought it would be 
nice if there were a service like this avail
able. Its better than renting half an apart
ment to the tune of $150, and not even liv
ing there.
their own. Douglas, in turn, forwards
Blessed event - thousands homeless
(PIG-PENN.) The Peoples Investigative 
Group of Pennsylvania discovered today 
that the editor of a well-known Pittsburgh 
college newspaper gave birth to two heifers 
two hours before the official news 
deadline.
The assistant editor of the paper was
quoted as saying Bull! when informed of 
the happy event. The lucky mother her
self could not be reached for comment.
Although it is still only rumor, the 
two newborn heifers have reportedly been 
offered positions on the newspapers 
editorial board.
Electrical Engineers Mechanical Engineers Systems Programmers
Dont miss your opportunity to interview with 
a major manufacturer of computer systems.
How important is your career to you? If you want to start big in the second largest computer industry in the world, come talk with Burroughs. The Downingtown, Pa. facility Small Systems Group will be recruiting future graduates in the specified areas of concentration:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS - BSEE/MSEE or any engineer ing degree with programming experience. Responsibilities include specification of system architecture, detail logic design of the systems components, documenting and debugging systems components and participating in system testing. Other opportunities in engineering programming and power engineering.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS - BS/MS in Mechanical Engineering with a broad based background in mechanical design with emphasis on machine design. A high level of creativity and ability to interface with other disciplines is desirable. Involvement in the research, synthesis, design and analysis of facsimile transmission equipment or new electromechanical business machines which process the handling, encoding, protecting of financial and business documents. Acting as engineering support for current product lines.
SYSTEMS PROGRAMMERS - BS/Computer Science or BS/Math with Computer Science background. Responsibilities include design, implementation and debugging systems software such as compilers, diagnostics and operating systems as well as application programs such as APL, linear programming, data management systems and inventory control.
If youre stimulated by challenge and committed to your career you could progress to higher level positions within a few years. A flexible person will enjoy continued growth opportunities available throughout our corporate and group facilities.
We offer job related training to acclimate you thoroughly to Burroughs* procedures. Through presentations and special projects you can interface with management personnel at all levels.
Interested in learning more about Burroughs career opportunities and company benefits? Include your name on our schedule so that we can provide you with the information to help you choose your career with...Burroughs.
ON-CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
December 10, 1979 
Carnegie-Mellon University Placement Office
Burroughs
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer. M/F

---------------------------------------------------

UNIVERSITY FOODSERVICE - 101
Notes: (and things to remember) 
for the week of Dec. 4 thru Dec. 10
O DINNERS UNLIMITED -
I. Tuesday & Wednesday are 1/2 price nights
for someone (gotta remember to check the board!)
II. Thursday Roman Holiday*
A. Minestrone Soup
B. Italian Connection 
1 - ground beef patty with mozarella cheese,
lettuce, tomato, onion on a seeded bun.
C  Spaghetti with meat sauce
1 - garlic toast 
D Italian Mixed Vegetables 
E  Spumoni
F  Deluxe Salad Bar & Beverage (unlimited)
$2.50 for one time thru the serving line 
$1.00 for each additional trip 
(unlimited beverage & salad)
o
Choice of 
^ B or C
oIII. Friday  Fish Fry $2.95
All the fried fish and clams you 
can eat, plus a deluxe salad bar & 
14 selections of ice cream.
J
... call the FOOD SERVICE DIRECTORS HOTLINE X2127 Mon. 5PM - 6PM
---------------------------------I^SSSSSSSSSSSS^

---------------------------------------------------

Twenty-five battalions fought extensively in World War I, earning special honours at 
Mond, Ypres, Loos, the Somme and on the Hindenburg Line. In World War II Battal
ions fought in almost every campaign, but the breakout from Tobruk in 1941, when 
the 2nd battalion was played into battle by Pipe Major Roy was one of their finest 
exploits. At the end of the war three battalions fought at El Alamein,and raced each 
other to cross the Rhine first.
More recently the 1st battalion gained its last battle honour against overwhelming 
Chinese opposition on the Hook in Korea. Subsequently the% 1st battalion served on 
active operations in Kenya and Cyprus and on policing duties in Gibraltar, Hong Kong 
and Northern Ireland.
Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth , the Queen Mother , whose family has close ties with 
the regiment has been Colonel -in - Chief since 1937.
Brigadier the Lord Ballantrae became Colonel of the Regiment in 1969 after his 
return from New Zealand where he was Governor General. Lieutenant Colonel R.I.L. 
Ker is Commanding Officer of the First Battalion The Black Watch.
The Black Watch visits CM U
The Black Watch of Scotland was interviewed by WRCT-FM on Tuesday, November
27.
The Black Watch, Scotlands world famous Highland Regiment, is returning to Amer
ica the fall of 1979 to highlight events to be offered in Pittsburgh during the season. 
The band, pipes, drums, and dancers of the Black Watch are celebrated for offering 
one of the most spectacular military displays. It is a dramatic pageant of marching, 
playing, dancing to their tunes of glory. The company of eighty men are hands-across 
the-sea ambassadors who will perform in their great tradition at Xj\e Stanley Theatre on 
Dec. 5, Wednesday at 8 PM.
The Black Watch is Scotlands senior highland regiment and originated from the inde
pendent companies raised in 1725, to police the Highlands, where there was still much 
unrest following the Jacobite rising of 1715. Later they served courageously in British 
military campaigns around the world, including many in the American War of Indepen
dence, where they were especially active in the New York area.
From their inception they wore a dark tartan derived from the families of those who 
commanded the independent companies (the Campbells, Munros and Grants) and were 
known as Am Freiceadan Dybh or The Black Watch in contrast to the English soldiers 
who wore red coats. (However, the pipers wear the Royal Stewart tartan.)V.. -
The Black Watch was formed into a regiment in 1739 and first paraded together at 
Aberfeldy in Perthshire in 1740. They won their first battle honour at Fontenoy five 
years later, and in over 230 years the regiment gained 162 battle honours, 52 of which 
are emblazoned on their colours.
In 1749 while serving in Ireland they received the number 42nd by Royal Warrant and 
later during the conquest of Canada, after distinguishing itself at the historic battle 
of Ticonderoga, were granted the title Royal. Highland Soldiers had been so successful
that a second battalion was raised that year, and was numbered the 73rd Highland 
Regiment of Foot in 1786. This battalion earned outstanding battle honours in the 
campagin against Tippoo Sahib in India. In addition the Duke of Wellington obtained, 
his first commission as an ensign of the 73rd.
The Red Hackle, the vulture feathers worn in the bonnet of The Black Watch, has been 
their well known emblem for over 160 years. Legend associates it with the Battle of 
Geldermalsen on January 5,1795 when Highlanders rescued two guns of the 11th 
Light Dragoons which had been captured by the French. For their gallantry on this 
occasion, The Black Watch was awarded a distinctive badge, the Red Hackle. Subse
quently, they gained exclusive rights to this emblem in 1822 and celebrate Red Hackle 
Day every January 5.
Among their many glorious battles in which they have fought is the Battle,of Alex
andria in Egypt in 1*01. In it they were described as standing pre-eminent for gallan
try and steadfastness which could be difficult to match in the history of any army. At 
Alexandria , the regiment won the honour of bearing the Sphinx with the word Egypt 
as a badge on its colours after holding out against superior odds and repelling Napo
leons invincible forces. The capture of a French eagle was later commemorated by a 
silver presentation from the Highland Society.
The Black Watch served in the Peninsula, gaining ten more Battle Honours and bo.th 
battalions took part in the Battle of Waterloo. In the Crimea, the 42d saved the day at 
the battle of Alma when it was led forward by Sir Colin Campbell to capture the Russ
ian positions.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TARTANDecember 4, 1979
ils and describe how its structure works 
attain them. Having done this, we can 
n informally analyze the organizations
PUCs goals can be classified into two 
s; economic and political. As we exs kind of self-defeating, because 
sd a combination of different 
sfore they can really apply their
Catherine Fischer 130 ; 
Professional Writing 
lont care, other people 
r, and they dont have 
do other things, so they 
other people are all
L think that the disunity on campus isj 
basic competition. Sometimes people take! 
it to extremes, which isnt very good, but! 
the idea of competition is good. !
Karolyn Denson 
AMS *83
M.J. Hayden 
Arch *82
CMU talks about. . . Disunity betwee
I feel that the disunity is caused by the 
administration in the fact that they split up 
the libraries, the classes, etc. I feel that one 
of the solutions is to have a place where 
students from all of the colleges can get to
gether: a Student Union building. Im 
working on a committee to form a Student 
Union, and to have it built as soon as pos
sible.
Scott Miller
Im disappointed in the people who make 
such a big deal about whose major is hard
er, and who have to feel that their major is 
the hardest for them to have a rationale for 
being here. 1 feel that its childish; every
one should be happy with the major that 
they choose, and shouldnt try to outdo 
everyone else.
Anne Burack 
Econ/AMS '82
I think that the competition between col
leges is good. Its always good to have com
petition because it gives you incentive to 
work harder. I think that the competition 
is natural, but to hold something against.
someone for being in a different college 
would be pretty stupid.
Craig Steinitz 
H&SS/AMS *83
I guess the disunity is because of the peo
ple. Some people don 
are just very busy, 
time to go out and 
dont know what other people 
about. Basically, Im happy here.
"I think it 
people need a 
subjects before 
education.
Politics and Po
U.S. GOVERNMENT 
OPPORTUNITY OPENINGS FOR
. Scientific Technical Medical 
. General Management Graduates
Uniformed Military Divisions of the Department of the Navy 
have positions open for scientific, technical, medical and 
general management graduates Positions available include
SCIENTIFIC/TECHNICAL
Aviation (Pilot Trainees 
and System Maintenance) 
Computer Technology 
Engineering (Civil/Marine/ 
Mechanical/Electrical) 
Nuclear Power 
Ocean Systems
MEDICAL/GENERAL
Business Administration
Communications
Legal
Medical (RN/MT/MD/DDS) 
Human Resources 
Supply
QUALIFICATIONS: Minimum BS/BE degree (or college 
seniors) Federal regulations require that applicants be no 
more than 27 years old (adjustable up to 3 years for Veterans) 
to ensure full opportunity for career advancement. Relocation 
overseas or domestically required. Applicants must pass a 
rigorous mental and physical examination and qualify for a 
security clearanceBENEFITS: Management Trainees can expect an excellent 
benefits package which includes 30 days annual vacation, 
generous medical/dental/life insurance coverages and other 
tax-free incentives Dependents' benefits are also available. A 
planned promotion program is included with a commission in 
the Naval Reserye
PROCEDURE: Register with Career Services/Placement Of
fice or call (800) 242-3736 for interview, or write a letter stating 
qualifications or send resume to DEPT of the NAVY, Code 10, 
1000 Liberty Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15222.
Interviews: Dec. 11, 1979
Should the PUC be reformed?
by Bob Gleeson and Chris Fostel
The title of this article poses a question 
which has plagued State government for 
years. The question has been argued back 
and forth endlessly and little agreement has 
been reached. This week and next week we 
would like to examine this question oursel
ves.
To begin with, how does one tell if an 
organization is in need of reform? The 
obvious answer to this would be that 
reform is needed if the organization is not 
doing its job. So then what is the PUCs 
job?
Like any organization, the PUC has goals 
to fulfill and a structure through which 
these goals can be attained. Problems arise 
when either: the goals are unattainable, the 
structure will not attain them, or a comb
ination of both. This week we would like 
to give a general summary of the PUCs
to
then informally analyze 
success.
The
groups; economic and
M0STEK WILL BE ON CAMPUS
A world leader 
tnferv
MGS integrated circuits and systems, headquartered in Dallas. Texas, will be 
ere this week Chec* with the placement office for more 'nformation
X> W Crosby Road Cat'onion Texas 7SCXX We are an eouai opportunity ernpk)~e mlhv
MOSTEK
plained in our last article, its economic goal 
is to approximate a type of fair marketcompetitive equilibrium in industries with 
state guaranteed monopolies. Doing this 
allows the public to gain the benefits 
which can be had only by large utility 
companies, while avoiding the hazards of 
unregulated monopolies. This must be 
done carefully so as not to bankrupt the 
utility while at the same time denying 
them windfall monopoly profits.
The second goal is political. The PUC is an 
agency of the State government. Although 
it operates independently from the State, 
dissatisfied consumers turn to state politics 
to remedy their complaints. The Com
missioners themselves are appointed 
through a political process: the Governor 
appoints them and the Senate approves the 
appointment. Therefore their base of sup
port is politics , not expertise in the field 
of economics. The recent appointments to 
the PUC underline this point very well. 
As a political organization, their goal is to 
keep consumer groups partially satisfied 
with their decision, or at least not so dis
satisfied that they will resort to raising a 
political fuss.
Thus the PUC walks a tightrope between 
economic function and goal and its 
political function and goal; between 
providing an adequate income to the utility 
companies while appeasing the consumer 
groups.
Now let us look at the structure and the 
process which the PUC uses to attain its 
various goals. ThePUCs power is in 
the hands of a five-member panel of 
commissioners who are each appointed for 
10-year terms, (although few stay for a 
whole term). Currently three of the five 
commissioners are lawyers. There is also 
a support staff of engineers, clerks, and 
lawyers who analyze rate change proposals 
submitted by the utility companies. Th 
staff works mainly with data supplied by 
the utility companies.
Using their staffs analysis, the Commis
sioners hold public hearings at which offi
cials of the utility companies are examined 
and re-examined to verify the accuracy of 
their rate requests. They also hold regional 
hearings at which consumers and consumer 
groups are given a chance to refute the rate 
change proposals. It is rare when both 
consumers and utility managers testify at 
the same meeting. ,
Through this protracted series of hearings 
both the PUC staff and the consumer 
groups get their chance to cut away at the 
company proposal. The Commissioners al
ways accept some, if not all, of these 
changes and the final decision is made. The 
new rates are set and announced, and there 
is no appeal.
Now that we have reviewed the PUCs 
goals and the structure of its regulatory 
process, we arrive back at the question 
posed in this weeks title. Next week we 
will try to answer it.

---------------------------------------------------

December 4, 1979-TARTANPage 13
Tips for wine tasters: how and what to buy
by Charles D. Waters
(Reprinted with permission from the Uni
versity of Arizona Daily Wildcat)
Although a few collegians have experi
enced the singular pleasures of a truly fine 
bottle of wine, the average students en
counter with the noble drink consists of a 
liter of house wine at the local bar or sev
eral glasses of overchilled Gallo Hearty Bur
gundy at a weekend party.
Others may consume occasional bottles 
of Blue Nun, Almaden, Paul Mason, or 
other low cost wines. Most, however, are 
intimidated by the vast array of vintages, 
varieties and names and the often high 
prices that accompany them.
The truth of the matter is that it need 
not be extremely difficult or prohibitively 
expensive to enjoy fine wine. All that is 
needed is an open mind, a little basic in
formation and a few dollars.
Cultivating a Taste for Wine.
Fine, expensive wines are not for 
everyone. Many of the worlds finer wines 
will taste dry, harsh, or even bitter to the 
novice vinophile. What gives a good French 
red Bordeaux its complexity and great 
longevity (ability to endure bottle-aging) is 
tannic acid, one of the chemical ingredients 
of the Cabernet grapes from which the 
wine is made. The wines tannin content, 
however, gives it a taste that is harsh and 
acidic to the inexperienced.
Others cannot tolerate the dryness of 
many types of wine. Americans in parti
cular are known for their affinity for sweet 
wine, which explains the great degree to 
which sugar is added to American wines 
by many mass producers.
If you are used to Carlo Rossi, Gallo, 
Morgan David and other bulk wines, you 
may find the natural dryness of some 
higher class wines unpleasant. But keep an 
open mind, and remember that you are 
experiencing the natural, undisguised taste 
of the grape. For those who still prefer 
sweeter wines, there are a variety of prePhone-a-thon
by Karen Stevens
Every year, the development office 
sponsors the CMU Annual Fund which is a 
phon-a-thon to collect pledges from CMU 
alumni. In the past, participants in this pro> gram were alumni themselves, but this year 
it has been decided to open the activity to 
student organizations in groups of twenty 
callers. The development office is offering 
prizes for the first and second place organi
zations collecting the most dollars ($100 
for first, $50 for second) and the most 
pledges ($100 for first, $50 for second). 
The top performer individually each night 
will receive one of various gift certificates, 
and everyone who participates will be al
lowed to make a phone call to anywhere in 
the country.
Kim Susko, one of the organizers, says 
the students prove to be more persuasive 
because they are asking for something that 
will benefit them, and the alumni really en
joy talking to the students. Previous pro
ceeds from this drive have been used for 
hiring new and better faculty members, in
stalling the new biology facilities for the 
study of molecular and cellular sciences, 
new lighting in the Kresge Theatre, new of
fices for H&SS and more. Thus all groups 
gain something from this effort.
The phon-a-thon will take place on Jan
uary 7-10 and January 14-17 from 6 to 9 
PM. For the first 45 minutes, pizza and 
beverages will be served, followed by two 
hours of fun and excitement as the stu
dents get involved in contacting people 
from all over the country.
If your organization wishes to become 
involved in a truly exciting project for the
mium wines that nature has sweetened to 
perfection.
What to Buy
If you have not had the chance to ex
periment with different wines, start off 
buying the less-expensive varieties to avoid 
stubbing your toe on something really ex
pensive that you don't like. Besides, many 
enjoyable quality wines can be readily 
bought for $2 to S5 a bottle.
Good first-time wines that are relatively 
inexpensive are: Beaujolais, the delightfully 
strong and fruity red wine from Southern 
France (buy this one young); regional 
Bourdeaux wines, plentiful in both red and 
white; Cotes du Rhone reds from Southern 
France; Kabinetts from the Rhine and 
Moselle in Germany (These are vastly supe
rior to Blue Nun and other Liebfraumilch 
wines, which are unnaturally sugared and 
often more expensive); and Gewurztraminer, a fragrant and spicy white wine from 
Alsace in France.
There is a wealth of quality wines from 
Italy that are available in the United States 
at remarkably low prices. Although these 
could never be called great, they are sturdy, 
pleasant wines that are a good bargain. 
Among them are Soave, the light and dry 
white wine from Verona; Chianti Classico, 
the smooth and fruity dry red wine from 
the Piemonte region; and Valpolicella and 
Bardolino, both light, dry red wines.
Last, but certainly not least, of the 
sources of inexpensive quality wine are the 
vineyards of California. Although the best 
of the Golden State is often as expensive as 
the premium wines of Europe, there is a 
variety of fine wines available at modest 
prices.
California Cabernets are an excellent al
ternative to red Bordeaux. Many fine vin
tages are available for less than $5, although 
estate-bottling from exclusive vintners will 
be much higher. Pinot Chardonnay, the 
esteemed white-wine grape of Burgandy, 
has thrived in California, producing some
offers prizes
good of the school, then contact Kim 
Susko, x2020 before December 17.
excellent whites that rival many of the best 
French whites. Likewise, the Zinfindel 
grape is one of Califronias best, producing 
a very pleasant dry, fruity red wine that is 
rapidly increasing in popularity. Pinot Noir, 
the noble grape of red burgundies, has been 
continually improved so that now it too 
yields some high-quality California reds.
The Riesling grape, called the Johannisberg 
Riesling in California, produces a range of 
dry to sweet white wines that are compa
rable to many Rhines and Mosels. Other 
California varieties that are delightful and 
inexpensive are Sauvignon Blanc (sometimes 
called Fume Blanc) and Muscat, a naturally 
sweet, pale gold wine.
Visit the Art Carved Representative This Week
 Buy Now and Save on Selected Traditional and 
Contemporary Rings.
 See our Wide Variety of New Styles.
Men's Contemporary
Women's Fashion
... symbolizing your ability to achieve
December 4, 5, 6  10 A.M. - 4 P.M. 
Baker Hall, Bookstore 
emu bookstore*

 Deposit required. MasterCharge or Visa accepted.
>
Suppher tof the 1960 
United States Otymptc Team
OPPORTUNITIES WITH A LEADER!!
As the nation s largest commercial printer, R.R. Donnelley & Sons repre
sents the pinnacle in management innovation, product quality and tech
nical expertise. We have been a leader in the graphics' communications 
industry tor over a century. Ii you are innovative and want to join a 
professional, recession-proof company, and have the appropriate de
grees as indicated below, we have opportunities for you in the following 
areas:
 MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
(BS or MSME)
 ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
(BS or MSEE)
 INDUSTRIAL ENGINEERING (BS or MSIE)
 COMPUTER SCIENCE
(BS or MS Computer Science)
We have an increased need for 
persons seeking computer 
science careers in both business 
and technical systems 
applications!
To you, we offer excellent starting salaries, professional and manage
ment growth and diversity plus an extensive benefits package which 
includes life, medical and dental insurances, a retirement plan, tuition 
aid and a liberal vacation policy. II you are interested in joining us, sign 
up in your placement office to see our Representative on:
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 13th!
Ii you are unable to join us, please forward your resume to Mr. Bill Shelton, 
Manager Recruitment Planning.
R.R. Donnelley & Sons Company 
Corporate Headquarters 
2223 S. King Drive 
Chicago, Illinois 60616
)ppoftumty Empioyer M Fli

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14TARTAN December 4, 1979
Handy herbal hints for reducing cold weather pains
by Gary R. Fabian
With winter coming on, it might be a 
good idea to get some useful information 
out to you. There are a number of herbs 
that make colds a lot easier to live with, 
and even a few that might help keep you 
from getting one.
To start, a good fortifier of the blood 
is alfalfa. Taken as a tea daily it improves 
the appetite, helps to relieve urinary and 
bowel problems, and also eliminates re
tained water. The flavor of this tea is not 
very good (honey helps quite a bit), but 
its benefits well out-weigh that problem. 
Alfalfa is a general tonic and, when taken 
over a period of time, cleanses the blood 
and just generally makes you feel better. 
Now is a good time to start drinking 
alfalfa tea in preparation for winter.
For the aching muscles that fre
quently accompany winter colds and flu 
or for anytime your muscles ache,
make a tea of one part passion flower and 
one part vale rain root, and take 34 times 
daily. Passion flower is an antispasmodic 
and a sedative, but the good tiling about it 
is that it doesnt knock you out like perscription muscle relaxers tend to do. 
Likewise, valerain is a nerve sedative, so 
it does not have the physically sedating 
properties of passion flower. A nice 
fringe benefit of valerain for you cat 
owners is that cats love the fragrance of 
valerains volatile oil. If you make a small 
pillow of valerain for your cat, its sure to 
enjoy it.
For sore and tired eyes, wrap up a few 
tablespoons of eyebright in a piece of 
clean cotton and place it in hot water for 
a few minutes. Then take it, dip it in ice 
water and apply it to your eyes for about 
ten minutes. It doesnt take the red out 
but it makes your eyes feel alot better. 
Eyebright can also be drunk as a tea to
strengthen weak memory and also for 
relieving the pressure of headcolds. You 
can even use the tea as an eyewash!
If you dont have any other herbs 
around the househave camomile. You 
can use it for almost anything. It is a good 
herb for calming frayed nerves and easing 
any kind of pain. It is a mild laxative (not 
a purgative), and makes a good compress 
for rashes and sore muscles. Camomile 
helps you get to sleep, and reduces in
flammations of mucous tissues either as 
a compress or as a tea. It makes a re
freshing eyewash for tired eyes; eyebright 
is much better but a combination of the 
two is great. Also it makes for a very 
relaxing bath. This herb is good to have 
around in the winter for general discom
forts brought on by cold weather. 
Camomile tea with a little honey is great 
to offer your friends on a cold winter 
night.
Another cold weather comforter is 
Comfrey Root. Aside from it being a good 
gargle and excellent mouthwash, the decoc
tion can also be used for inflamed throats, 
hoarseness and bleeding gums. A tea of 
comfrey root helps ease stomach problems 
and a heavy tea, several tablespoons of 
the herb steeped in ten ounces of water, 
with honey and lemon helps to relieve 
persistent coughing.
And if you have trouble falling asleep 
some night, a tea of catnip will help send 
you off. The affects of catnip on humans 
is drowsiness and calming, the exact 
opposite of the way it affects cats. Catnip 
also helps relieve gas.
A classic way to break up a stubborn 
cold is to drink a tea made of one part 
angelica and one part horehound. Angelica 
is a sweet tasting aromatic herb that stimu
lates the appetite, partly by breaking up continued on page 16
CHRISTMAS TREE DECORATING CONTEST
Thursday, December 13 
Skibo Lobby 
Information & Details & Signup 
Skibo Information Desk X2107 
Deadline - Monday, December 10
Open to CMU Students & Student Organizations
Judging will be 
Friday, December 14  Noon
Co-sponsored by: Campus Program Planning & Residence Life

---------------------------------------------------

December 4. 1979-TARTANPage 15
Christmas season has already begun for downtown Pittsburgh merchants. Here are a few of the displays, some traditional^some unique.
Unique holiday gifts win prizes
(ALTERNATIVES) To coincide with 
this years avalanche of Christmas commer
cialism, ALTERNATIVES is sponsoring 
the first annual Best and Worst Christmas 
Contest. The contest, open to all Ameri
cans and Canadians, will be seeking exam
ples of Christmas gifts, from past years, 
which best illustrate:
1)THE WORST OF CHRISTMAS 
COMMERCIALISM: gifts that were 
particularly tacky, tasteless, extravagent, awful, useless, and/or utterly 
crass, and primarily served only the 
financial interests of the manufactur
ers and retailers (examples: automatic, 
electric in-the-shell egg scramblers; 
$300 Monopoly games made out of 
chocolate; patriotic toilet seats; $99 
X-mas Stockings filled with x-rated 
films)
2)THE BEST OF AN ALTERNATIVE 
CHRISTMAS: gifts which demonstra
ted a more meaningful, human and 
socially responsible celebration (ex
amples: things which were home-made 
or recycled; gifts of time, a shared ex
perience or the teaching of a skill or 
talent; a gift given to someone else in 
your name)
This year, with the Best and Worst Contest, 
theres finally a way to share those exam
ples of excessive commercialism that set 
new standards in bad taste or those special 
and creative gifts that really did reflect the 
true Christmas spirit. Entries must de
scribe, in 200-300 words, a gift actually 
recieved by the contestant. Each entry 
should explain why the gift reflected 
either excessive commercialism or a more 
meaningful and responsible Christmas. Pho
tos of the actual gift are optional but nonreturnable. The names of the people sub
mitting  Worst of Christmas entries will 
be kept confidential, and the winner of this 
category will have the option of having his/ 
her name withheld from public announce
ment.
Entries must be received by December 
18th at the following address: BEST AND 
WORST CHRISTMAS CONTEST, Alter
natives, 4274 Oaklawn Dr. , Jackson, MS
39206.
Prizes: In the spirit of an Alternative 
Christmas, ALTERNATIVES will donate 
$500.00 to two non-profit, tax-exempt
human needs or social change organiza
tions. . The winners of the Best and 
Worst categories will each be able to de
signate one of the donation recipients. Win
ners in each category will be chosen by the 
staff of ALTERNATIVES and will be an
nounced at a press conference in WashCHRISTMAS POSTAL DEADLINES
INTERNATIONAL MAIL  OUTBOUND
AirmailDestinationAir ParcelsLetters/Cards Surface
North & Northwest Africa...............28 Nov......8 Dec. . . .10 Nov.27 Oct.Caribbean/W. Indies....................12 Dec......13 Nov.Central/South America.................1 Dec. . . .10 Nov.8 Dec......12 Dec. . . .10 Nov.8 Dec......12 Dec. . .27 Oct.28 Nov......5 Dec. . . .1 Nov.1 Dec. . . .27 Oct.Southeast Africa........................28 Nov.....27 Oct.28 Nov8 Dec. . . .27 Oct.
U. S. MAIL FIRST CLASSDEADLINEDEC. 15,1979
PARCEL POST DEADLINE DEC. 10( 1979
APPRENTICE IN NEW YORK WITH TOP PROFESSIONALS FORCREDIT
If you are a college student preparing for a career in the visual or performing arts, here 
is a unique opportunity to earn credits while gaining practical work experience as 
an apprentice to a distinguished New York professional. Join students from over 25 
states and 45 colleges who have found the Arts Apprenticeship Program a most en
riching and valuable experience. Apprenticeships can be arranged based on individ
ual experience and interest and include:
PAINTING/SCULPTURE/PRINTMAKING/CINEMA 
GRAPHIC DESIGN/PHOTOGRAPHY/VIDEO-TELEVISION 
MUSEUM-GALLERY WORK/INTERIOR DESIGN/THEATRE
 Discover, up front, how successful professionals function in the most competitive 
and provocative city in the world
 Venture beyond the classroom environment to preview your field by actually work
ing in a demanding professional environment
 Enjoy an exciting semester in New York  arts and communications capital of the 
world  with its museums, galleries, cinema, theatres.
Apprentice positions available in either the 
Spring, Summer, or Fall Semesters.
For more information, mail the coupon below or call (212) 741-8975.
#
II
I
II
I
I
I
V
Director of Special Programs
Parsons School o* Design
b6 Fifth Avenue. New York, NY 10011
Please send me more information about the
Parsons New School Arts Apprenticeships Program
My area ot interest is 
Name_____________
Address .
City State Zip
PARSONS 
SCHOOL 
OF DESIGN
A Division of the New School

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-TARTAN-December 4, 1979
PCauateuiul
ACROSS
1 Something found in 
Frisco (2 wds.)
9 Party man13 Determine the de
gree of association
14 -----Stanley Gardner
15 Those who mesmerize
16 Hasn't ----- to
stand on
17 Peter Sellers char
acter, Henry -----
18 Comnits (2 wds.)
20 "The Organization
21 Item for Willie 
Mosconi
23 Cousteau's ship
24 Chang's twin25 Military training 
center (abbr.)
26 Sudsy quaff
27 "The ----- Tattoo"
29 Cup handle
31 "Eyes have they, 
and -----"
36 '60s Secretary of 
the Interior
38 Detroit labor 
initials40 Seat of Brigham 
Young University
41 He played Hud and Harper
43 Shining example
45 Made a hole-in-one
46 32 grams of oxygen, e.g.
48 Fleur-de-------
50 Fort -----, Calif.
51 Scenic miniature
55 Rachel Carson 
subject56 Where Orr used to 
compete
57 Have mutual effect 
59 Exam taker
61 1975 Wimbledon champ
62 Sap
64 Exigency65 Certain M.D.
66 Give it -----
67 Window sash
DOWN
1 Carpentry tool 
(2 wds.)
2 Composer Thomas
Augustine -----
3 Old TV western
4 Cos or iceberg5 Mr. Whitney
6 Dramatis personae
7 Ancient Greek state 
or N.Y. prison
8 What a twist-off 
cap does
9 Kind of eyes
10 Ship's deck
11 Quite a few
12 Musical notation
13 "----- Bergerac"
15 Mazeroski's famous
NOTICE
TO ALL CAMPUS 
ORGANIZATIONS
THE DEADLINE FOR 
CLUB SURVEY FORMS 
HAS PASSED!
If you wish to retain your status sub
mit a survey form as soon as pos
sible or contact the Senate Office 
X2115 Survey Forms are available 
from the Rules Committee Mailbox 
at Skibo Information Desk.
FUNDED BY STUDENT SENATE
feat of '60 (2 wds.) 
19 Coleridge's "gentle 
thing"
22 Biblical brother 
28 Common street name 
30 Inferior newspaper
32 Age
33 Legal plea (2 wds.)
34 Steam up, to excess
35 Went through a 
stage of infancy
37 College in Beaumont, 
Texas 
39 Work with metal 
42 Far from 
stay-at-home 
44 Concern for 
59-Across 
47 Gap or missing part 
49 Tristram Shandy's 
creator51 Hunt goddess
52 Map detail53 Tryon's "The ------"
54 Tall and slender
58 Demolition supplies 
60 Tibia63 Actress Frances -----
collegiate crossword
Mini-mystery
by Beth Arden
The Inspector sighed in disgust, eyeing 
the gory scene. She looked at her watch: 
10:30 PM. A dwarf millionaire, Rozus 
Bertman, lay dead at the bottom of the 
apartment complexs tenth floor staircase, 
his tinv neck twisted at an impossible angle.
After completing her investigation at 
the scene. Denar returned-to Police Head
quarters where Captain Kirk Dougsop had 
assembled two fitnesses: Rusty Michtowicz, the dead mans nephew, his only heir; 
and the maintenance man, Boo Sorg.
Well, Boo, what happened? queried 
Dougsop as the Inspector entered her of
fice.
I was coming out of another apartment 
on the tenth floor about 10 oclock when I 
saw Mr. Bertman get out of the elevator. 
He was drunk, I guess, even though it wasnt 
very late. Anyway, he was having trouble 
walking down the hall to his room, so I 
offered to help him. He refused, pushing 
me out of his way. I continued down the 
hall towards the elevator. A few minutes 
later, I heard a lot of noise and a scream, 
so I rushed to the staircase. I found him 
dead at the bottom, then ran back upstairs 
in shock to call the police.
What about you, Rusty? What did you 
see happen?
Well, I was waiting in the apartment 
for my uncle to come home from work  
we were supposed to go out to dinner. I 
left the door slightly ajar so I would hear 
him come in. Instead, I heard his footsteps 
as he came up the stairs, then I heard him 
scream out, No, dont, please... STOP!. A 
few moments later I heard him tumble 
Sown the staircase. I hurried outside to the 
stairs to find him dead. Then I called the
ambulance and the police.
Turning his attention to the Inspector, 
Michtowicz finished, Youve got to be
lieve me, Inspector! I loved that man and I 
think someone killed him. I dont think he 
was drunk  in fact, Ive never seen him 
drunk once, not once!
Sorg jumped up, yelling, You dont 
live here; you dont know! Your uncle was 
drunk half the time he was home! An ar
gument between the witnesses ensued.
The inspector broke up the fight by 
saying, Never mind, you two. The main 
point is that one of you is lying and I just 
found out who!
Whos lying and how did the Inspector 
know?
JOOlf IfJlldJ dlfJ'UO JOJDddJd difj Jo 
mo 2u\iuoo umuudQ mot ay pm di( udifM 
SuiXj sdm. 8uo$ djo/djdijx uoojJ ijjudj 
dip oj sjifSijJ unoj dm yjvM puv jno idS 
udifj uojjnq Jooif ipxis difj ifsnd oj pvif di{ 
duop jojvddjd dip ui 136 dif/i jifStu /Cidtig 
(pdUUlfUOD JdJDJ Mdlfddll SllfJVl[l jdvJ v ) JOJ 
-VAdjd dip uo uounq uaojf ipudj difj i/DDdj 
I Up\nOD dl{ JUDM.p V SUM UDIUJUdg dDUlS
imp pdjdddsns S~SPddsuj difj .uopnios
Herbs
GET YOUR CAREER OFF TO A FLYING STARTIt takes four years to get a college degree. How long will it take you to get a good job?If you haven't settled on a company or corporation yet, why not get your executive career off to a flying start as a pilot or navigator in the United States Air Force? It's the finest flight program in the world, the pay is excellent, and you'll enjoy the prestige that goes with the silver wings of an Air Force pilot or navigator.If s one of the finest opportunities in the nation. And a great place to gain executive experience with million Oollar responsibility. Find out today about the Air Force flight program. Contact
A great voy of Me>
continued from page 14
congestion and phlegm. In addition 
angelica relieves stomach cramps, muscle 
spasms, fever and weakness (because it is 
a stimulant). Horehound is above all else 
a remedy for coughing and bronchial 
problems. Along with its overall calming 
affect, it helps to restore a balance to the 
secretions of the body, and it aids in 
bringing down fevers. The combination tea 
should be taken about three times a day 
but not for more than three or four days at 
a time, and should be made using only a 
teaspoon of angelica in ten ounces of 
water.
Whenever you need overall refreshing, 
whether you are sick or just tired out, 
take a handful of wintergreen and tie it up 
in some cotton material. Then draw a nice 
hot bath, drop the wrapped up herbs in the 
tub, get in and relax. It is even more 
effective if you boil a quart or two of 
water and drop the herb bundle into that. 
Let it boil for about three minutes then 
pour the whole thing into your bath water. 
Wintergreen is an astringent and its 
aromatic qualities are what make it so 
relaxing yet refreshing.
Most herbal remedies require more than 
one dose. They are not miracle cures,' 
give them time to work. Once again, I 
would like to mention that whenever you 
are using herbs be aware that some people 
are allergic to some herbs, and that all 
herbs are medicines, and as such should be 
used*with care.
References used: The Herb Book, by
John Lust, and Herbs and Things, by 
Jean Rose.

---------------------------------------------------

Commissiona conducts PSO
by Timothy LeVan
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
gave a fine concert last Sunday under the 
guest conductor ship of Sergiu Commissiona. Mr. Commissionas conservative 
conducting technique brought the orches
tra through the symphony with ample 
skill.
Beethovens Symphony No. 8 in F 
opened the program. The symphony was 
a rather short one, written without the 
customary slow second movement.
Elmar Oliveira was soloist for the 
Glazunov Violin Concerto in A. The 
conceto revealed Mr Oliveiras superb 
technical ability and musicianship. His 
musical feeling also provided a pleasing
addition to the perfomance.
Chaussons Poeme for Violin and 
Orchestra again presented Mr. Oliveira as 
a fine, young violinist. The Poeme was 
quite charming in its content and its alter
nation between soloist and orchestra.
The delightful Kodaly Dances from 
Galanta closed the program.
The next P.S.O. concert will take place 
the weekend of December 14-16. The 
program will include Stravinskys Firebird, 
Debussys Prelude to the Afternoon of a 
Faun, Saint-Sans Violin Concerto No. 3 
and Haydns Symphony No. 96 in D. 
Emil Tchakorov will conduct. Chou Liang 
Lin will be violin soloist.
Striking gold at Garneau's
lefferson Starship earn applause from Stanley Crowd
Thomass vocals were sharp and clear, and 
plenty of time was given for a generous 
amount of jamming by Chaquico, Sears, 
and Dunbar. Perhaps Chaquicos best gui
tar work was done during Wooden Ships. 
Somebody To Love was given a 
strange treatment, probably due to the 
absense of Grace Slick on vocals. The band 
wisely stayed away from most Slick or 
Balin virtuoso songs, but with Kantner, 
they aptly handled the multi-harmonic 
sound that is classic to the Airplane. This 
was apparent during the final song,VolunFrom left to right, the reformed Jefferson Starship are; Pete Sears, Aynsley Dunbar, David Freibert, Paul Kantner, Craig Chaquico and Mickey Thomas.
by Alan Spero
The Jefferson Starship, along with open
ing act Rory Gallagher, made an almost 
perfect landing at the Stanley Theatre last 
Tuesday night, as witnessed and confirmed 
by a full house of enthusiastic fans who 
were brought to their feet several times 
during the rousing, raucous evening of rock, 
blues, and psychedelia.
Rory Gallagher came onto the stage 
with stratocaster in hand. He was backed 
by bass player Gerry McAvoy and drum
mer Ted McKenna. His performance cen
tered on blues, consisting of lickity-split 
guitar lines, a pounding rhythm section, 
and hoarse, wailing vocals; a style very 
similar to Johnny Winters.
The show opened with Shin Kicker 
from his Chrysalis album Photo-Finish. 
Right after then he kicked into another 
rocking-blues number, Wayward Child. 
Most of Gallaghers material is original, 
but lacks individuality. What gave the 
songs their exciting drive was Gallaghers 
onstage style. He rocked out on each 
number with some great blues leads, some
times throwing in a mellow slide, as in the 
siow blues song, Garbage Man. About 
a quarter of the audience was standing 
as he came on for his only encore, Bull
frog Blues. If he can get a little more 
diversity into his songwriting, it shouldnt 
be long before he achieves enough pop
ularity to headline a concert.
The Jefferson Starship arrived on stage 
about one half hour later, starting off the 
show with Paul Kantners Ride The Tiger 
from Dragonfly. Kantner, occasionally
donning a Star Wars helmet, was in fine 
form. His choppy rhythm guitar and wail
ing back-up vocals supported the singing of 
new lead vocalist Mickey Thomas, and the 
fluid, psychedelic leads of guitarist Craig 
Chaquico. The rest of the reformed Star
ship line-up consisted of Pete Sears and 
David Freiberg, alternating on keyboards
and bass, and Aynsley Dunbar, late of 
Journey, on drums.
This version of the Starship seemed the 
most solid since the groups conception. 
The band drew heavily from its new hit al
bum, Freedom At Point Zero, playing al
most every song on the disc. Each song 
sounded better than the recording;
teers.
The Starship came on for one set of 
encores, starting with Dance With The 
Dragon from Spitfire and ending with 
another new song, The Girl With The 
Hungry Eyes. By this time the Starship 
had been playing for well over two hours 
and rightly deserved the several standing
0 ovations they received.
1 Last Thursday the TARTAN had a tele> phone interview with guitarist Craig 
| Chaquico from his hotel in Columbus,
8 Ohio. As for now, he believes the band is 
S very stable and comfortable playing and 
a jamming with each other. He also men
tioned that there is a new album starting 
to take form. He said that he had started 
jamming with members of the Airplane, 
Grateful Dead, and CSN&Y when he was 
sixteen. Later on, he did some session work 
for Kantner and Slick on their solo albums, 
and then went on to become the lead gui
tarist of the Starship at age 19. The entire 
conversation with Craig Chaquico can be 
heard this Friday at midnight on WRCT.
Lyric tenor Francois Clemmons, a CMU alumna, will be the guest soloist of MUSIC FOR THE WHOLE FAMILY, three benefit performances being presented by the African Heritage Classroom Committee. The performances include a classical recital on Thursday, December 6 at 8 PM in Stephen Foster Memorial, (donation $10.); a Cabaret on Friday, December 7 at 9 PM in the Schenley Hall Ballroom, (tickets are $12.50); and a children's concert on Saturday, December 8 at 3 PM in Stepehn Foster Memorial (donation $3). Mr. Clemmons, who is currently seen on the award-winning series Mister Rogers' neighborhood, holds a Master of Fine Arts degree from CMU.
by Karen Stevens
All Aboard at Track 84 bound for 
satisfaction guaranteed. Are you tired of 
afraid to go over the weekly budget 
and thus surrender to food 
service for your meals? Quit 
: Connoisseur making excuses, take a 
chance and board a bus to 
downtown (Sixth street across from Heinz 
Hall where gold has been struck at Johnny 
Garneaus Golden Spike.
I discussed previously, in this column, 
how many well-budgeted meals can be 
found for the persons willing to eat their 
big meal at lunchtime. This is a wise idea 
not only because pood meals can be 
found at inexpensive prices, but its good 
for you. Your body takes a certain 
amount of time to digest food. Eating 
your main meal at five or six and follow
ing it with the inactivity of studying 
delays proper digestion, thus adding 
those unneeded, unwanted inches.
This weeks search for a fine dining 
place at a reasonable price, takes us to a 
gold mine and one that fits what 1 just 
discussed -Johnny Garneau s. From 11:30
AM until 3 PM, in the downstairs dining 
room (the upstairs bar serves sandwiches 
from 11 AM), the customer is presented 
the option of sitting through the many 
sandwiches and platters on the menu aver
aging about $2.75 per selection or opting 
for the all-you-can-eat buffet for $3.25.
The menu, presented in the form of a 
newspaper that may have been in circula
tion during the days of the Gold Rush, 
adds to the railroad-typ motif and con
tains numerous selections. My favorites 
are the roast beef sandwich on a hard roll 
served au jus or their large, juicy hambur
gers served with lots of onionsboth priced 
between two and three dollars.
The real golden nugget for the hungry 
college student is discovered while panning 
the buffet. Launching the excavation 
through this meal is a complimentary cup 
of the soup of the day (also served with 
all sandwiches). The second stop on the 
journey is at a huge salad bar the makes 
Salads Plus look wilted.
After the lay-over for salad and a quiet 
conversation which is inspired by the soft, 
gentle atmosphere; the third station on our
visit back to the Gold Rush is at the hot 
entrees. Although the selections change 
daily, the day 1 feasted presented large 
pieces of chicken basted with butter and 
parsley; stew with large pieces of meat, 
carrots, potatoes, and celery (maybe like 
the railroaders had); stuffed cabbage; and 
fried fish. Side dishes included corn, 
carrots, rice, stuffing, and mashed pota
toes/gravy.
Youve been chugging along at a pretty 
fair pace thus far and for many the journey 
will end here; however, foi those daring 
enough to venture farther, a mere 75 cents
more will buy your ticket to a cart load of 
irresistable desserts. Cheesecake, tortes, 
angel food cake, chocolate fudge cake, 
black forest cake, and others can be gener
ously provided by your waitress.
As the gold rush soon came to end so 
must our trip, but the final exit point 
(the cashier) proves to be a pleasant onetwo people can easily eat for under $10.
All Aboard! Destination Phoenix City, 
Jefferson Town, Mud Johnny Garneaus. 
Wear what's confortble, yet presentable; 
have a safe trip; and do it soon!


---------------------------------------------------

Page 18TARTANDecember 4, 1979
Theatre Express offers Pittsburghers an alternative
by Melody Mazzie
Theatre Express opened its season 
November 29 with Arnold Weinsteins 
Dynamite Tonight. Dynamite Tonight has 
been described as an Actors Opera, which 
probably means that it was written for 
actors who can sing rather than, as is more 
often the case singers who cannot act.
The setting takes place in a bunker below 
ground during an unknown war. Ac
cording to actor Ken Stirbl, the production 
deals with the absurdities of war.
Weinstein wrote the libretto for Dyna
mite Tonight in 1958, and composer 
William Bolcom wrote the score in 1960. 
Theatre Express will be presenting a new
C>". '; >
X<] .
Let the Great'X' Haircutters 
identify the real YOU with a Unique Precision Haircut!
&A precision cut at Great "X" mean that we cut your hair naturally  the way that it grows. So it holds its shape longer and stays in place better than any other haircut you've ever had. That's why Great "X" has more than 100 stores across the country ready to help you identify yourself.
mmsxMenmoits.
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Slow)
II00
Mon. Tuo*. Wed. 10-7 
Thur. Fri. 10*9 
Sat. 9-6
COLORING
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
PfRMANtNTS
237 Atwood Streot 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
2500
NO
APPOINTMENTS
adaptation of the score by musical director 
Michael Roth, who studied with Bolcom 
at the University of Michigan. Roth 
described the progressive music as a soph
isticated, contemporary theatre score, 
and his revisions will be a premiere.
Theatre Express is a professional reper
tory company and is basically the only 
alternative theatre company in Pittsburgh. 
It is alternative in that it does not do, in 
the words of Stirbl, the standard, com
mercially successful plays. Rather, it 
does extremely entertaining plays which 
do not merely entertain but leave the 
spectator with something to think about. 
Theatre Express is, in fact, the only thea
tre outside of New York that does this 
kind of work. Most of their productions 
are off-Broadway plays and are the best 
in contemporary theatre. Stirble consid
ers the material fine theatre that is not 
always considered bankable because of the 
subject matter and thus is not given the 
attention of Broadway plays.
Theatre Express was founded four 
years ago by William Turner (director
and artistic director), Jed Harris (actor 
and director), and Caren Harder. The 
company has five principle actors  Ken 
Stirbl, John Ellerbrock, Peter Matthey, 
Claudia Zahn, and Janet Reed. The 
latter two are both graduates of CMU, as is 
Turner.
The upcoming plays which Theatre 
Express will perform are very diversified 
and include Stageblood, Endgame, Made 
by Two, and Preparadise, Sorry Now. 
Made by Two was done by the company 
last year while on tour at the Long Wharf 
Theatre in New Haven, CT. The play 
will be done again this year by a grant 
from the National Endowment for the 
Arts Opera/Musical Theatre Program. 
Of hundreds of regional theatres across the 
country, only seven were given grants. 
It was quite an honor, therefore, for 
Theatre Express to obtain such a grant 
for Made by Two, which, incidentally, 
was a world premiere. The company 
has become nationally known, for their 
fine reputation.
Buckingham leads Mac show
by Dave Radack
It was Lindsey Buckingham and friends 
night as Fleetwood Mac showed Pittsburgh 
that a semi-mellow band can rock the roof 
off. The Macs first Pittsburgh -appearance 
in three years (last years show was cancelled 
because Lindsey Buckingham was ill) was 
well recieved by a less than full house at 
the Civic Arena last Monday.
Fleetwood Mac is increasingly becoming 
Lindsey Buckinghams band. His stage pre
sence was pervasivewhether strutting 
around the stage or jamming on some songs 
of the set, Buckingham dominated the stage 
and the show. His new punk look 
(baggy gray suit, short slicked hair etc.) 
added to the dominance.
The effect, however, of $14.50 tickets 
took its toll on attendance. Many large 
blocks of seats were empty. The crowd 
that was there was somewhat subdued un
til the end of the show when a gang of peo
ple from the upper deck came down and li
terally took over the floor. The band reacted 
by giving some of the more spirited numMe...A Printer? I'm an Engineer!
Why Not?
Sure, you've visited a Print Shop 
when you were in grade school, and 
it was a pretty small, unimpressive 
place. That's one of the fascinating 
things about the printing business. 
Some fine work is printed in tiny 
shops all over the country. However, 
they don't hire Engineers. Some fine 
printing is also produced by large, 
diversified, multi-plant printers. 
R.R. Donnelley is one of these . . . 
the world's largest, in fact. We hire 
Engineers of all kinds . . . for Re
search & Development, Environ
mental, Energy & Safety, Manufac
turing Support, New Construction 
& Equipment, and Technical Plants
& Competitive Analysis.
Engineers find personal challenges 
in a company building on a heritage 
of Craftsmanship that's 500 years 
old and busily engaged in pushing 
back the frontiers of technology. 
They find personal satisfaction in a 
company deeply involved in inform
ing, education and entertaining a 
knowledge-hungry world. 
Whatever your career goals, you 
should evaluate the opportunities 
available to you at Donnelley. Sign 
up in your Placement Office to see 
our Representative on
Thursday, December 13!
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
Corporate Headquarters 
Chicago, Illinois 60616
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
bers of the night, such as You Make Lov
ing Fun and the title cut of the new album 
Tusk.
The show was mainly composed of re
cognizable hits from Fleetwood Mac and 
Rumours, such as Go Your Own 
Way, Rhiannon and The Chain. On 
many songs such as Go Your Own Way, 
outstanding jams followed the main verses. 
These songs were probably the best of the 
evening. All of the jams featured the pre
cise guitar work of Lindsey Buckingham.
The women of the band (Stevie Nicks 
and Christine Me Vie) did all the more 
mellow tunes. Landslide, done by Stevie, 
made for a good change in the mood. 
Christine McVies songs (especially "Song
bird) were nice keyboard pieces. The 
show was certainly not monotonous.
Almost all the Rumours album was 
done in a long two hour set. A few songs 
from the new album Tusk were also 
done. The previously mentioned title cut 
was a bizarre (for Fleetwood Mac) tune 
that caught the crowd off guard and led to 
the subsequent storming of the floor. 
Dont Say That You Love Me showcased 
Lindsey Buckinghams powerful tenor voice, 
and also some good harmony by Stevie 
Nicks.
It was apparent that the whole band 
worked very hard to please the audience. 
The effort that was put into this show 
made for an extremely entertaining evening 
of music.
EVtkY ni6Ht we  'n ^ WATCH OME Tuf-iU; !MFAMT|t HcW AtEk At/Tftttf! Dont Tkc ne'Ivk& av AnY KtaK'-T Pen ~Uk INTfc.ULlGE><CE r 
fts
CLASSICAL GUITAR INSTRUCTION
All Levels  
Beginners to Master 
Located in Mt. Lebanon 
Donald P. deLuenosh 
833-7435 343-1774

---------------------------------------------------

December 4, 1979TARTANPage 19
Outlaws and Molly Hatchet shake Arena with country rock
Art Show
Opryland is Americas great musical show park. Millions of people each year see our fully-staged musical productions. And for 1980 we need hundreds of young singers and dancers, instrumentalists and leader/ conductors, stage managers and technicians.As an Opryland entertainer, youll get the thing most important to a show business career exposure. Every year, many Opryland entertainers go on to perform in productions such as Broadway musicals, national commercials and network television shows.
Auditions schedule for Opryland
Youll work with top professionals at Opryland. Youll earn a good salary. And youll be in NashvilleMusic City, U.S.A. Opryland performers have a chance to appear in special events; productions have even been staged exclusively for recording industry executives... the people who count. Opryland performers must be 16 years of age or older. An accompanist, record player and cassette recorder will be provided at the audition.Make Opryland 80 your stepping stone to stardom!
Pittsburgh auditions will be held Wednesday, December 5,1979,11:00 
a.m.-4:00 p.m. at Pittsburgh Playhouse, 222 Craft Avenue, Lillian Russell 
Room.
For more information, contact:
Entertainment Department, Opryland, USA,
2802 Opryland Drive. Nashville, Tennessee 37214 
Phone: <615)889-6600, Ext. 341
Opryknd is an entertainment property of the National Life and Acndmt Insurance Company Aw equal opportunity Employer
by Charles Rhoades
Friday, November 23, Pittsburghers 
flocked by the thousands to the Civic 
Arena to hear a powerful double bill fea
turing Molly Hatchet and the Outlaws for 
an evening of country rock.
Beginning promptly at 7:30 PM, Molly 
Hatchet took the stage, accompanied cryp
tically by a tape of the theme to Drag
net. They quickly opened with the familiar 
tune Bounty Hunter from their first al
bum. The boys from Jacksonville then rat
tled off three more cuts from the same LP 
before starting into a track from their 
latest album, Flirtin  With Disaster.
But the tune that got the fans at the 
sold-out Arena on their feet was their harddriving renditon of the Allman Brothers 
Dreams Ill Never See. Although there 
were some minor problems with the sound 
system, they were quickly corrected. The 
band then ripped into the title cut of their 
new album after the lead vocalist, Danny 
Joe Brown, took a few swigs from a bottle 
of Jack Daniels.
The group met the expectations of the 
fans with their rowdy guitar work oscilla
ting between the three leads. Less impor
tant to the fans were the distinctively 
Southern lead vocals which, while border
ing on the unintelligible, still pleased the 
partisan audience.
The group showed the promise of being 
one of the premier rock bands of the up
coming decade: The fans pleaded for an 
encore amid blazing bic lighters and numer
ous rebel flags. Their pleas were appeased 
as the band returned with a truly highpowered performance. Here the band really 
cut loose, as Duane Roland complimented 
Dave Hulbeks switch to slide guitar.
The band finally exited amid a volley of 
sticks from drummer Bruce Crump to 
finish out an hour of intense southern 
jamming.
The original guitar army, the Outlaws, 
arrived on stage about a half an hour later 
amid the showering sparks of fireworks. 
They opened with the fine instrumental 
from their first album, Waterhole. The 
band then went into a sequence of hard 
rocking songs from past albums which in
cluded There Goes Another Love Song, 
Freeborn Man and Take It Any Way 
You Want It. Each was characterized by 
the intense solo work of the three gui
tarists. Solo guitar work is one trait that 
the Outlaws have refined into their music 
successfully, although they do a more 
stunning job of it on the albums than on 
the stage.
Nevertheless, the band was more than 
competent in the Arena and performed for 
the spellbound audience some cuts from 
their new LP, In The Eye Of The Stonn. 
Outstanding selections in this set included 
the Elvis Costello song Miracle Man, 
Cornin Home and Blueswater. In 
these selections the keystone of the group 
was obviously Huey Thomasson, who
Tonight at 7 PM the artwork of Mary I 
Joe Deley, Lisa Gerstbrein and Irene Hobbs j 
opens at the Forbes Street Gallery. GerstI 
brein and Hobbs, boih senior art fibers ma
jors, will display weavings and fiber pieces. 
Deley, a senior printmaking major, will 
have on display selected paintings and 
prints.
The show will run through Sunday, De
cember 9. The gallery is open Tuesday 
through Sunday from 12:30 to 4:30 and 
Tuesday through Thursday evenings from 7 
to 9 PM.
showed some of his virtuosity on the guitar. 
One of the constants in the often-changing 
lineup of the Outlaws, Thomasson at times 
jumps into a style of guitar playing that 
can only be described as picking. He is 
often complimented by Billy Jones, an able 
musician himself, in many guitar duets and 
unisons which are quite effective. These 
two guitarists carry the present group and 
are noticeably more comfortable with their
performance. They, with drummer Monte 
Yoho, are original members and projected 
an incredible aura of confidence that was 
easily detected in their musicianship.
Their repertoire then consisted of two 
songs from their album Playin  To Win and 
two from the LP before that one, Hurry 
Sundown.
They then came out again with Keep 
Prayin  from Playin  To Win and finished
the encore with traditional semi-classic 
Green Grass and High Tides. The Arena 
literally shook with the power of Harvey 
Dalton Arnolds bass in the first strains of 
the 25-minute jam session.
Overall, the night was well worth the 
price of the ticket, even for the spectators 
behind the stage. The opening band rivaled 
the headliner for a rip-roaring,boot-stamp
ing, goodtime evening of country rock.
The Outlaws captured the crowd at the Civic Arena on Friday, November 23 with electrifying guitar work. From left to right: David Dix, Freddie Salem, Hughie Thomasson, Billy Jones, Monte Yoho and Harvey Dalton Arnold.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20TARTANDecember 4, 1979
Eat to the Beat puts Blondie's new wave talent at the top
by Ted Smits
A couple of months ago in the Decade 
Club in Oakland I noticed a David Johansen 
Group roadie proudly wearing a t-shirt that 
proclaimed in big black letters: Blondie Is 
A Group. Blondie is of course the band 
that rose to the heights of music stardom 
with the well deserved success of their third 
album Parallel Lines'. Blonde-haired lead 
singer Deborah Harrys seductive attitude 
and looks, coupled with her knack for gar
nering extensive press coverage, caused 
many uninformed fans to regard the band 
as little more than a one woman show. 
Blondies latest release Eat To The Beat is 
another successful mixture of art and fun 
expressed through music that should con
vince the world of the fact that Blondie is a 
group,and a very good group too.
Blondies musical influences are based in 
the new wave music scene that arose in the 
early seventies in New York. It was an 
opening set for an Iggy Pop and David 
Bowie show that first brought Blondie to 
the attention of critics and fans. While last 
years album displayed a fine merging of 
pop and new wave musical styles that 
produces a string of hits, Eat To The Beat is 
the work of a band that has matured and is 
ready and able to treat their music as the 
art form it is.
From the first two cuts it is immediate
ly evident that on this album Blondie has 
become a basically one hundred percent 
new wave band. Dreaming and The 
Hardest Part are dominated by the 
demanding rhythms of drummer Clem 
Burke wliile bassist Nigel Harrison, and 
guitarists Chris Stein and Frank Infante, 
weave slicing rhythms around the lush lead 
vocals of Deborah Harry. Throughout the 
album the groups musical mix remains ba
sically the same. The music is never allowed 
to overwhelm Harrys lead vocals but the 
two compliment each other perfectly and
TIM H HIM MIFUNE WARREN OATES ROBERT STACK TREAT WI.LIAMS
in in A fam Pmdudui o( A STEVEN SPEIiERG f EM
HIT AllEI If KEZEI Wf DiDCCO DIAME KAl SIM PICKENS - RUE JO STENNR LNKl STANOER Ikcb o! Phaogt*hy WILIAM AfRAKER ASC - Screenplay by ROBERT MMS S BOB GALE
SlotvbvROBERT ZEMECKISS BOB GALE and JOHN MUS Muse bv JOHN WIUIAMS  ProducedbyBUZZFEITSHANS Luecutive Pioduca JOHN URJUS  Oreded by STEVEN SPELBERG<3 !* BOO*jyaiLVLiioriLLDinu
[ 0"9*W Soxndbadi o** #CO*<H f*0 *% ]
COMIIMG FOR CHRISTMAS
Blondie has a refined, basic sound that relies on the rapid interplay of drums, guitars, and bass to provide an unmistakable beat that keeps your feet moving.
this uncommon match of musical forces 
really helps define Blondies sound.
The fourth song, Eat to The Beat, 
is a musical celebration by the group 
that shows how fun rock and roll can be. 
The prominence of the word beat is no 
mistake. Like many of the new wave bands 
Blondie has a refined, basic sound that re
lies on the 'rapid interplay of drums, gui
tars and bass to provide an unmistakable 
beat that keeps your feet moving. Closing
out the first side is one of the best songs 
on the album, Accidents Never Happen. 
The lyrics of this and many of the other 
songs demonstrate that behind the polished 
musical style their is some intelligence. 
Rather funny, meaningful or just bizarre,
the lyrics are rarely out of place and are
The killer cut on the album is Die 
Young, Stay Pretty. In this fast paced 
rocker, Harrys vocals give us all a message. 
Whatever it does, this album should at least 
teach some people that indeed Blondie is a 
group and a damn good group at that.
photo courtesy of Chrysalis Records

---------------------------------------------------

continued from page 4
the arts and the sciences is beyond 
comparison. As he said, All our 
knowledge has its origin in our 
perceptions. His artistic drawings 
of the human anatomy epitomize 
the meeting between the arts 
and the sciences.
The arts and sciences are indi
visible in the respect that one 
could not endure without the 
other. The passion of one and the 
specificity of the other comple
ment each other and make for a 
richer society. The Western civili
zation is at such a level of sophis
tication because one was not 
substituted for the other.
Carole E. Marble 
Freshman H&SS 
How about Carnegie?
Editor:
I cant begin to guess the 
psychological motivation that 
prompted Mr. Okunewicks criti
cism of H&SS students in last 
weeks TARTAN. Perhaps hes 
been toying with his own tech
nology a little too much. Im sur
prised he could refrain from ad
miring himself long enough to 
write the letter.
Mr. Okunewick urges that 
H&SS majors attack CIT as a 
whole instead of the individual 
letter writer, but he completely 
misses the point  cooperation. A 
mutual respect and support be
tween the technocrats and human
ists is necessary for a balanced, 
progressive society.
Andrew Carnegie acquired 
wealth through technology, but 
he understood the danger of a 
purely scientific bias, without con
sideration for social consequences. 
Carnegies genius was a finely 
balanced combination of techni
cal know-how and keen percep
tion of human character. This 
people know-how was a major 
factor in his business successes 
(see any of his biographies for 
particulars).
Carnegie was a fine example of 
a Renaissance man. He was fas
cinated by Darwins theories of 
evolution, and travelled extensive
ly, recording philosophies of vari
ous cultures, which were published 
in his book, Round the World. He 
explained his own philosophies of 
life in several other books, inclu
ding his autobiography. Carnegie 
was also devoted to literature, 
especially Shakespeare, his favor
ite author.
Studying the humanities gives 
the individual a broad basis on 
which to make intelligent, in
formed judgements. Obviously, 
its important to appreciate their 
social impact. Consider the split
ting of the atom and its conse
quences for our modern society: 
the atomic bomb and nuclear 
power.
It is imperative for the future
professionals at CMU, technolo
gists and humanists alike, to share 
their own specialized knowledge 
with each other. Only with this 
cooperation can we hope for 
people-oriented advancements in 
our modern world.
Kelly Cotton 
C. D. Councill 
Technical Writing
Friendly criticism 
Editor:
I have listened to all the gripes, 
heard all the arguing, and I am 
tired of hearing about whether 
any one major has any merit on 
this campus.
I know that I speak for many 
who sit back and read the foolish
ness of recent TARTAN letters-tothe-editor who have such a diver
sity of interests that they can 
laugh at any side of the argument.
Phil, even though you are a 
good friend, I must scold you on 
your outlandish letter of a few 
weeks ago. I know that you have 
several interests outside of 
Sch5200 (5 th floor terminal
room) which contradict parts of 
your letter and therefore invali
date your argument. If you were
looking to stir up controversy, 
why not start up some intelligent 
controversy like: The Steelers 
lucked into the last two Super 
Bowls; A Chevy Z28 will out per
form a Trans-Am; or Insects fly 
upside down...
Seriously, there are many of us 
who, along with our academic 
courses (Calculus, Physics and 
15-???), venture outside the world 
of science and into the world of 
art, music and politics. I personal
ly am concerned with what is 
happening in the world and with
out the help of the economist to 
analyze, the reporter to convey 
and the business administrator to 
make sure that the information 
gets to me, I would not be able 
to know things like who is the 
better candidate between Regan 
and Kennedy. I am not saying 
that the media is not biased, but 
certain important facts about such 
issues surface through all the junk.
I write and am a musician. I di
rect a Jazz band for enjoyment. I 
do not think that it is foolish to 
do so. If we dont do the things in 
life which we enjoy, then what 
good is life? If you do not enjoy 
Comp. Sci. you should look for
another major and the same goes 
for Economists. But if you enjoy 
what you are doing, then what 
matter does it make what you do?
Phil, have you ever thought of 
what any wall of your house 
would look like if we did not have 
artists?
I am not the only person that 
has diverse interests, and as I 
have stated, I know that you your
self have some different interests 
outside the world of VT52s, 
DecSystem-20s and X1200s. It 
is a serious problem if a person is 
as narrow as your letter mistaken
ly made you out to be.
Life is too short for such trivial 
nonsense. Everyone should get 
out and appreciate the work of 
others whether they be musicians, 
artists, real estate brokers, corpo
rate executives, research engineers, 
writers or any other of the mil
lions of occupations. If you want 
to complain about someone, 
complain about the skid-row 
bums that drink for a living on 
our tax money and w^o never 
work for a minute.
Philip E. Nickerson, Jr.
Sophomore, Applied Math/ 
Comp. Sci.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Fraa Pregnancy Tasting. 
Evaning Hours Available
js BERNADETTE PETERS, CATLIN ADAMS - JACKIE MASON
KSTEVE MARTIN, CARL GOTTLIEB, MICHAEL ELIAS "STEVE MARTIN & CARL GOTTLIEB 
DAVIDV. PICKER,WILLIAM E. MCEUEN "tCARL REINER m Vo lu
READ THE WARNER BOOKA UNIVERSAL PICTURE
RESTRICTED - C
-RUNDER 17 REQUIRES ACCOMPANYING PARENT OR QUIT 6UARDIAN
Coming For Christmas.
UNIVERSAL PICTURES PRESENTS 
AN ASPEN FILM SOCIETY WILLIAM E. McEUEN 
DAVID V. PICKER PRODUCTION 
A CARL REINER FILMSTEVE MARTIN
IhejERK
When in Southern California visit ^NIVERSAL STUDIOS TOUR

---------------------------------------------------

Imagine Yourself 
A Career... 
Then Make It 
Happen At 
Honeywell
At Honeywell, you can turn your ambitious goals into a 
dynamic career. Our leading market position and pro
gressive business posture allow us to extend unparallel
ed opportunities for professional expression. Honey
wells stimulating working environment promotes and 
supports individual growth through a responsive atti
tude and an abundance of unique involvements. If your 
objectives and qualifications match ours, consider a 
rewarding future with Honeywell.
LARGE INFORMATION SYSTEMS DIVISION 
PHOENIX
Located in Phoenix, the Large Information Systems Divi
sion (LISD) is involved with the product planning design, 
development and manufacture of Honeywells largescale computer systems.
LISD is seeking BSEE and BS Computer Science can
didates to fill software specialist and engineering posi
tions in Software Development and Engineering. Also, 
there are a limited number of openings for BSEE and 
Computer Science candidates for the three year Ad
vanced Engineering Program which includes graduate 
education toward advanced degrees,
SYSTEMS & RESEARCH CENTERMINNEAPOLIS
The Systems & Research Center (S&RC) is involved in 
system analysis, applied research and development 
programs for government, aerospace, scientific and 
defense programs. S&RC technology areas are: micro
electronics, sensor technology, computer systems, 
optical components and materials, signal and image 
processing, laser technology, human-machine sciences, 
target acquisition and tracking and system and control 
technology.
S&RC seeks individuals with advanced degrees in one 
of the following disciplines: EE, Physics, Optics, Ma
terial Science, Computer Science, Control Science, 
Human Factors and Education Psychology.
AVIONICS DIVISION
ST. PETERSBURG, FLORIDA
Located in St. Petersburg, Florida, the Avionics Division 
concentrates on the design and manufacture of naviga
tion guidance and control systems including instrumen
tation, aerospace computers and memories for military 
and commercial applications. Key capabilities include 
inertial sensing, signal processing, digital control, electrooptical fire control, and microwave ranging.
Primary needs are for BS/MSEE candidates although 
openings also exist for BS Computer Science/Physics/ 
Math and BS/MSME candidates for Development, 
Design, Production and Product Assurance Engineer
ing positions.
Check with your placement office to verify recruiting 
dates and to sign on our schedule. Ask for a copy of 
our brochure, or write to: E. von Heimburg, Manager of 
University Relations, HONEYWELL, INC., Honeywell 
Plaza, Minneapolis, MN 55408.
OUR REPRESENTATIVE WILL BE 
INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS DECEMBER 11TH.
Honeywell
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H

---------------------------------------------------

Larry Hutnagel pops a jumper
IM news
by Leslie Weiser
Another intramural sport has completed 
its season as Team Volleyball finals were 
held last week. In the major league, 
Coaches All-Stars defeated DU Ducks in 
two games by the score of 15-11, 15-13, 
to capture the Championship. Phi Kappa 
Theta toppled the Zoo by scores of 15-13, 
15-5. In the minor league, Overdue copped 
the title. Mahogany edged Kappa Kappa 
Gamma as the Womens league champion.
There are many sports coming up with 
entries due January 10. They are: Basket
ball with a roster minimum of six and max
imum of thirteen. There will be four divi
sions of play; major, intermediate, minors 
and a special womens only division. Bridge 
has a roster minimum of four and max
imum of eight. Handball also has a roster 
minimum of four and maximum of eight.
Soccer finals are scheduled to begin this 
week and it isnt too late to enter teams for 
Darts and Backgammon.
Intramural Board Meeting 
Thursday, December 6 
& 12:30 PM, Room T04. Gym
I
FG-A FT-A
nuittagci 4-12' 3-6
Hofmeister 6-8 0-0
o 5-17 v 4-4
De Filippo 4-13 - 6-6
Donah oe 2-4 0-1
Lewis 2-9 2-2
TOTALS 27-72 19-26
HMIvmmwSssmml
EDINBORO
FG-A... ' : . . ' ' . . V ' . ' .....
Wflson 5-10
Lovett 12-24
Hooker 6-17
Moosa 0-3
Senko 0-4
Tillman 8-13
Luca 0-2
2-2
Collins 0-1
Smith 1-1
0-2
TOTALS 34-78
Hoopsters fall short in season opener, 80-74
by Denny Postufka
CMU head basketball Coach Dave 
Maloney didnt enjoy overtime on Friday 
night as much as football coach Chuck 
Klausing does. The Tartans traveled to 
Edinboro and fell short by a score of 80- 
74, in their debut of the 1979-80basket
ball season.
The Tartans, who have all five starters 
returning from last years 11-9 squad, were 
lacking in height against the Scots but 
the stats showed no sign of this fasct as 
the Tartans out rebounded Boro, 4541. 
The lack of height did take its toll though 
late in the second half after Dave Hofmeister and Larry Hufnagel fouled out. 
CMU played the remainder of the game 
with four guards and 68 sophomore 
John Lewis, the teams only other big man.
The Tartans led most of the way 
through a tightly played first half, their 
biggest lead being 33-28. The Scots closed 
the gap to 33-32 at halftime after a Don 
Lovett jumper and two free throws by 
Mark Moosa. Lovett had 20 first half 
points.
CMU continued to hold the lead 
throughout the second half. The Tartans 
went to their four corner offense with 
4:24 remaining in regulation time, building 
up their lead to as much as 5548 with 
3:16 left to go. Senior point-guard 
Mariano De Filippo displayed some fancy
ball handling and also hit six key free 
throws in the last three minutes of regula
tion time.
The Scots then got a few important 
buckets from 68 center, Melvin Hooker, 
and a ten foot jumper from Lovett, pulling 
them to within 2, 62-60, with 17 seconds 
remaining. After a time-out, CMU went 
back into the four corner offense. Sopho
more Dan Donahoe then got boxed in the 
corner by two Scots and his foot touched 
the baseline which turned the ball oyer to 
Edinboro with only three seconds re
maining. This set the stage for the big play 
of the game. The Scots lofted an inbounds 
pass to junior guard Tyrone Tillman who 
turned and fired up a 45 foot Hail Mary 
jumper from midcourt which fell through 
without even touching the rim. This tied 
the score at 62-62 and sent the game into 
overtime.
The Scots hit the first hoop in overtime, 
giving them the lead for the first time since 
the early minutes of the game and the Tar
tans were never to regain that lead.
Joe Belechak and Mariano De Filippo 
shared scoring honors for the Tartans with 
14 points apiece. Larry Hufnagel, last 
years PAC-8 MVP, was held to 11 points, 
in a game which he was plagued by foul 
trouble. Boros Don Lovett led all scorers 
with 25, followed by Tillman with 16 and 
Hooker with 15.
Basketball preview
by Scott West
For most coaches, the offseason is a 
time for replacing graduated seniors and 
adjusting strategies to the skills of his 
remaining players. They must also hit the 
road to recruit the highly touted high 
school seniors. These were facets that 
Coach Maloney did not have to deal with. 
While recruiting several fine prospects, 
C-MU has 11 returning veterans that inc
lude last years entire starting line. This 
years team should prove to be as exciting 
as last years Tartans, who finished second 
to Allegheny in league play. Continuing 
in the mold, they should be a very quick 
fastbreak team that utilizes the press. 
Led by seniors Larry Hufnagel, last years 
conference MVP, and Mariano DeFillipo, 
a lightning quick guard, the experienced
Tartans are definitely a force to be reck
oned with in the PAC. Also returning are 
starter Buddy Hobart, Joe Belechak and 
Dave Hofmeister, a trio of juniors who can 
put points on the board and rebound with 
the best of them.
with his fancy driving layups. On a hot 
streak, Joe wants the ball every time, and 
usually comes through. Averaging 13 
points a game, Belechak is also a fine rebounder. Joe is a Civil Engineering Major 
from Braddock, PA.
Junior Buddy Hobart, a public relations 
major from Homestead, is probably the 
best leaper on the squad. He showed flashes 
of brilliance last season and should continue 
to dazzle the crowd with his monster 
slams. He averaged 112 ppg. and 5.4 re
bounds in last years campaign.
Dave Hofmeister is the big man for the 
Tartans. At 67, it is easy to see why. A 
junior from Munhall, Pa., he averaged 7.3 
ppg. and 7.6 rebounds last season. The 
225 lb. applied math major should be a po
tent factor in coach Maloneys game plans.
Mariano DeFilippo heads upcourt
Hufnagel is the key to the Tartans 
attack. Even though Coach Maloney allows 
any player with an open shot to put it up, 
Huffy is the man that C-MU goes to 
when they need a basket. Averaging 20.6 
points a game and 15 rebounds, this aca
demic All-American is a leader in his quiet 
way. Making the key rebound or crucial 
blocked shot, Larry hustles all over the 
court. The 6-5 senior forward is an AMS 
major from South Hills Catholic Highschool.
Leading the fastbreak is the other 
senior, Mariano DeFillipo. This spark plug 
is a sure shot from the outside and his 
quick passes set up many of his teammates 
shots. He is the emotional leader who 
keeps his players up and always hustling. 
Despite his size (5-7) it is not uncommon 
to see Flip under the hoop after a re
bound. Averaging 10 points and 12 assists 
a game, Mariano is a Psychology major from 
Harrisburg.
Playing beside DeFillipo is the shooting 
guard, Joe Belechak. This 6-3 junior is 
a deadly outside shot and dazzles the fans
Joe Belechak lays one in
Dave Hofmeister sets for shot.
The Tartans travel to Pitt-Johnston on on Wednesday at 8:00 PM with Walsh
Tuesday and will open their home schedule College.
Buddy Hobart sails for two.
uoach Moloney looks on.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24-TARTAN-December 4, 1979
Women's basketball team looks for good season
by Ann Meyers
With four returning starters and several 
promising freshmen, the CMU Womens 
Basketball team is an excellent bet to 
improve on last years 8-9 record. Coached 
by Diane Shenot and assisted by Gene 
Klein, the Tartans will be competing in the 
Pennwood West Conference, but will also 
play a difficult non-conference slate 
featuring scholarship schools California 
State and Steubenville.
Heading the list of returnies is sopho
more sensation Cassie Segmiller, a first 
team All-Conference selection from 
Chartiers Valley. Described by her coach 
as very consistent and dependable, 
Cassie lead the Tartans in scoring last year 
with a 23.6 ppg average, while also hauling 
down 17 rebounds/game. Joining Cassie 
at forward is Brandi Jackson, a senior
from Washington, D.C. Brandi is described 
as an excellent rebounder, and scored at a 
5.5 ppg clip last year.
Two veterans will be found at the guard 
positions in seniors Terri Preskar and Gale 
Gammerdinger. A graduate of North 
Catholic High School, Terri captains the 
Tartans and also serves as their playmaker. 
Excellent defense and a 9.2 ppg scoring 
average enabled her to receive Honorable 
Mention, All-Conference. A native of 
Homesdale, PA., Gale brings a 5.7 ppg 
average to her guard position.
Starting at the center position is fresh
man Debbie Dunn. Debbie is an excellent 
rebounder and also possesses the ability 
to score from the inside. However, she is 
currently suffering from stress fractures 
and may not be available for several weeks. 
If she cant play, look for senior Dawn
CITY________________________STATE_______ZIP__________
PROGRAM OF INTEREST________________________-For more information and application raturn toDivifcon of International Program Abroad 335 Comitocfc Ava. Room N, Syracuia. NY 13210
Drake to take over the pivot position.
Bench strength will come from fresh
men forward Valery Brandt of Deer 
Lakes, Lorraine Stypula, a freshman 
guard from Wilkinsburg, and junior 
forward Alexandra Allen, a Cleveland 
Heights, Ohio product. Denise Ryan, a 
senior guard from Mt. Lebanon and Kathy 
Relihan, a junior forward from Shaler, 
will also see playing time.
Coach Shenot feels that the Tartans 
strong point is a tough defense, which 
enables them to be competitive with any
team. She also cites the players as 
displaying good enthusiasm and working 
hard. As for the favorites in the Penn
wood West Conference, Diane Shenot 
expects defending champion, W & J, to be 
the team to beat, along with Bethany and 
Carlow. But she feels that if CMU stays 
healthy and works hard, the Tartans have 
a legitimate shot at the crown.
The Tartans can be seen tomorrow night 
at 7 PM when they host Steubenville, Ohio 
in their first home contest.
STUDYABROADWITHSYRACUSEUNIVERSITYSpring 1980/Summer 1980 
SEMESTER PROGRAMS:
 Florence  Madrid
 Strasbourg! Amsterdam
 London  Mexico
NAME.
Variety of courses offered No language background required linancial Aid available Summer program available in England, Italy, Israel, Austria, East Africa  Apply now for Spring 1980 & Summer
pAuIGOATGf T: BjpEA
THE PRESIDENT'S COMMITTEE ON ENERGY | 
CONSERVATION WISHES TO ANNOUNCE A 
CONTEST.
TJBOBOBaiaBQB
OBJECTIVE to get student help in identifying areas 
where energy is wasted and ways to decrease the waste.
INCENTIVEFor the best ideas submitted each two 
week period the committee will award up to three $25 00 cash prizes.
ACCOMPLISHMENT: Award winning
ideas will be considered as part of our energy conservation program
Decisions by a 
few arbitrarily 
chosen judges 
whose decisions 
are arbitrary 
and final.
DROP IN 
CAMPUS 
MAIL
ENERGY CONSERVATION COMMITTEE 
RM 115 SCAIFE HALL
r yHlbs
Name
Campus Address 
Student I D #___

---------------------------------------------------

December 4, 1979-TAR TAN-Page 25
A review of the greatest season in Tartan history
by Ronnie Ben-Aron
This year, the CMU Tartans started the 
season with great hopes. In 1976 Chuck 
Klausing brought his great coaching ability 
to Carnegie-Mellon while standout players 
like Bob Kennedy, Bob Gasior and Gusty 
Sunseri came here after being teammates at 
Central Catholic H.S. The next year the 
Tartans won the Presidents Athletic Con
ference title. Last year they repeated as 
PAC champions and played their first 
post-season game since the 1939 Sugar 
Bowl. With this consistent progression, 
the Tartans had reason for these hopes.
The first game of the 1979 season was 
against California State. The brilliant 
Plaid Curtain defense held the Vulcans 
to 122 yards of offense while Kennedy ran 
and passed the Tartans to a 20-0 victory. 
The Tartans then played their first home 
game of the season against Ohio Wesleyan. 
The defense again shut out their oppo
nents while Kennedy, playing only three 
quarters, led the Tartans to a 35-0 victory.
Kennedy followed up his 11-15 passing 
the week before with 8 out of 11 for 
106 yards.
The fifth game saw the Tartans playing 
against Bethany. In that game Jeff Beer, 
the Bison quarterback who was named to 
the All-PAC first team for the second year 
in a row dented the Tartan secondary for 
221 yards. Despite this fact the Tartans 
did pick up five interceptions. The Tartan 
offense continued to excel, gaining 451 
yards and a 33-14 victory.
The next game was against Washington 
& Jefferson. In addition to being the 
Homecoming game it was also the first 
game ever televised at CMU. The Tartans 
responded witha 32-7 victory. At one 
point the Tartans were down 7-6 and that 
was the only time in the first eight games 
that the Tartans found themselves on the 
short end of the score. Bob Gasior was 
the leading rusher for the third week in a 
row. The defense gave up only 101 yards 
while the offense grinded out 412 yards.
$$ 3 *>>4 ii w. : I >' r','V *
I 'a
THROUGH RAIN, SLEET, SNOW, AND FOG? These Tartan football fans were not discouraged by inclement wheather conditions. They travelled to Ithaca, N.Y. to cheer on their team.
This was probably the most emotional 
game of the season since it was dedicated 
to Jimmy Starr, a Tartan wide receiver who 
was killed in a tragic accident over the sum
mer. He was a great friend to the players 
and if ever they wanted to win a game it 
was on that brisk September afternoon, 
and all the players performed spectacular
lyThe third game of the season was the 
first against PAC opponents, and played 
against Hiram. The Plaid Curtain did not 
allow a touchdown but they did give up 
a field goal. In that game Kennedy, who 
was chosen as Player of the Week, com
pleted 11 of 15 passes for 177 yards and 
rushed for two touchdowns including 
a 62 yarder which was the longest run of 
the year.
After that 27-3 victory, the Tartans 
traveled to Case Western Reserve where 
they whipped the Redcats 41-0. This 
was probably the best game the Tartans 
played this year. The defense gave up only 
100 yards, while the offense rolled up 418 
total yards. In this game fullback Bob 
Gasior led the rushers with 91 yards.
The seventh game was played at Alle
gheny. The Tartans gained 455 yards, 137 
of which came via runs by Bob Gasior. 
The defense recorded their fourth shut
out in seven contests. The final score 
was 26-0.
The next game was played against 
John Carrol. The Tartans won 27-7. 
Despite the twenty point margin this 
game was a struggle. The Blue Streaks 
moved the ball well throughout the first 
half but could not make the big play. 
Placekicker Denny Postufka led the charge 
by kicking his only two field goals of the 
regular season.
The Tartans had an 8-0 record, 6-0 in 
league play. Their next opponent was 
Thiel College who came into the game 
one game behind CMU. The last time they 
went into the final game with an unde
feated, untied record was in 1954 and that 
finalgame ended in a tie. This, therefore 
was not only the deciding factor for the 
Presidents Athletic Conference title, but 
also a chance for the Tartans to make 
history. The game featured one runner 
in the conference, Ron Leuschen. On
SENIORS ... GRADUATE STUDENTS 
Earn Extra $$* In Yoor Spare Time as a 
MANGOANDREWS CAMPUS REPRESENTATIVE
If you are outgoing, entuhsiastic, sales-minded and enjoy working with people, chances are you re the person we need! As a MangoAndrews Campus Representative, you con choose your own hours. The earning potential is unlimited, while you gain valuable work experience promoting our unique resume and interview counseling services on your campus. Commission -IIncentives. No experience needed. We will train you. For details, call Ms. Kern, 1 to 5 PM, Monday thru Friday.
MANGOANDREWS RESUME SERVICE  391-3232
Thiels first possession, the Tomcats 
back scored on a 38 yard run.
The Tartans stopped Leuschen after 
that but then were burned by their quar
terback, Charles Cole, on a 56 yard TD 
pass. Kennedy had an off day and the Tar
tans lost their starting tailback Rick 
Leaman. His replacement, Perry Colosimo 
led the team with 80 yards rushing. Bob 
Gasior scored 3 TDs, giving him 15 for 
the year and making him the top scorer 
in the conference. The Tomcats gained 
326 yards to a measly 204 yards for CMU. 
That made it CMUs worst game statis
tically, but they were playing the number 
two team in the conference. The only 
numbers that mattered to Coach Klausings 
team were the 21-13 score that showed 
the partisan crowd that the Tartans would 
be playing more football.
The playoff game against MinnesotaMorris was just as exciting as last years 
game against Dayton. It took a fierce 
comeback in the closing minutes of regu
lation time to tie the Cougars at 25 and 
two overtimes to win 31-25, in a game that 
saw Kennedy struggle for the second week 
in a row, but perform brilliantly when 
the game was on the line. Then came last 
weeks disaster when Ithaca scored twice in 
the final minute and a half to snuff out 
the Tartans chances to gain the Division 
III championship. The Tartans have
nothing to be ashamed of, however. It 
was indeed the best season in the history 
of Tartan football and pushed them even 
closer to a national championship. Next 
year should prove to be even more graifying as the Tartans are losing only 5 
starters from the defense. While the of
fense appears to be a big question mark, 
due to the loss of seven starters, it may, in 
fact, be even more potent as the junior 
and sophomore classes are ready to break 
things wide open.
r ,( PROSPECTIVE TEACHERS: Scien(I ce/Technical instrustors. BS/MS in math, I | physics, chemistry or engineering for ( j college/graduate school level position in 1 : excellent Florida setting. Starting salary . I $12,000 - $13,400 with competitive { i benefit package including medical, den( tal and life insurance coverage. 1 i Scheduled salary increases to $21,000 at : [ four years. Potential tuition aid for those [ 3 candidates completing final year of un| j dergraduate or graduate education. ApJ* plicants must possess U.S. citizenship i { and be under 28 years of age. Call or ( 3 write to arrange future on-campus in)i terview with Mr. Dave Leonard, 1000 i Liberty Avenue, Suite 711, Pittsburgh, i | Pa. 15222; Telephone 800/242-3736. (
I
FACULTY SPOUSES AND SENIORS DO WE HAVE A PROPOSITION FOR YOUl
FREEMAN, FOLTZ & VALICENTI REALTY, INC. offers you an opportunity to learn about 
the Real Estate business and its career opportunities.
THE SEMINAR WILL ANSWER:
 How much education is required for state licensure?
 How are commissions paid?
 What is the earning potential?
 How much time do you need to devote to a real estate career'5
 Whot kind of training is offered after state licensing?
This seminar will answer all yo jr questions about a career in real estate at no cost or 
obligation. Call Becky at 531-5900 for reservations. The seminar will be held on 
December 12, 1979 at 7:30 pm at Howard Johnson s Motor Inn on the Blvd. of the 
Allies, Oakland. Call for alternate dates and locations.
CAMPUS STORES CORNER
$30.00 
Pictures by J. R. R. Tolkien
With an Introduction and Note by Christopher Tolkien
This sumptuous volume contains 48 full-color reproductions of Tolkien's paintings and colored 
drawingssome prepared as specific illustrations for The Hobbit, some depicting other scenes 
from Middle-earth, a number of heraldic devices and decorative figures, some charming botanical 
fantasies, and a representation of the illustration from The Father Christmas Letters.
Where prestudies or original black and white versions exist they are presented on facing pages, and 
for each illustration Christopher Tolkien has provided notes on when it was prepared, where and 
when it was published, and so on.
Devotees of the works of J.R.R. Tolkien will treasure this splendid gallery of art depicting the mood 
and landscape of Middle-earth as The Master himself saw it.
CHRISTOPHER TOLKIEN, one of four Tolkien children, is the literary executor of his father's 
estate.-emu bookstoretrivia question
(P9. Name Santa's "eight tiny reindeer in the poem by Clement Moore.
Address

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26TARTANDecember 4, 1979
Coaches All-Stars, Phi Kappa Theta, and 
Overdue completed the 1979 IM Volleyball 
season as IM champions. The All-Stars 
won the major league title, Phi Kap nabbed 
the intermediate division and the minor 
league championship belongs to Overdue.
In the major league championship game, 
Coaches All-Stars edged DU DUCKS, 
15-11, 15-13, in what proved to be the 
most exciting match of the tournament 
weekend. The DUCKS beat FFVA and the 
All-Stars stopped ICAC to reach the finals. 
Coaches All-Stars have won the majW 
league title for an unprecedented fifth con
secutive year, breaking a record formerly 
held by SAE.
Paul Follansbec, Mike Pochan, Walt 
Tauche, Larry Pasternak, Pat Sanders, 
John Qualley, Don Erickson, Joe Bares, 
Jim Tackett, Mark Lowell, Tom Connery, 
and Jim Czeplal make up the roster for the
All-Stars.
In the intermediate league champion
ship game, Phi Kap defeated the ZOO, 
15-13,15-5 to gain the 1979 title. Overdue 
needed three games to put away the 
Hawks,15-7,11-15, 15-8, to gain the cham
pionship. In womens league action, 
Mahogany downed Kappa Kappa Gamma 
to take the trophy.
-  -  _______I Medical Services You Can Afford
PITTSBURGH 
FREE CLINICi  General Medical Health Education& Personal Counseling I1  Gynecological Services (I  Contraceptive Care
Call 661-5424
1 (Fee Based on Ability to Pay)
INTERNATIONALCAREER?
Interviews may be scheduled at 
CAREER SERVICES & 
PLACEMENT
AMERICAN GRADUATE SCHOOL 
OF INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT 
Thunderbird Campus 
Glendale, Arizona 85306
UNIVERSITY OF ROCHESTER 
DEPARTMENT OF PHYSIOLOGY
announces fellowships for 
graduate study
PHD DEGREE PROGRAM EMPHASIZING 
MEMBRANE BIOPHYSICS AND CARDIO
VASCULAR/RENAL PHYSIOLOGY
opportunities for students with degrees in biology, 
chemistry, physics, engineering, and related fields.
write:
Dr. Peter Shrager
Associate Professor of Physiology
Box 642
Rochester, N.Y. 14642
A representative 
will be on the campus 
WEDNESDAY 
DECEMBER 5, 1979 
to discuss qualifications for 
advanced study at 
AMERICAN 
GRADUATE SCHOOL 
and job opportunities 
in the field of
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
un-uampus imerviews ocneauiea ror:
DECEMBER 14
See your Placement Officer to arrange for interview 
An Equal Opportunity Employer
All-stars, once again!
Army ROTC cadets at CMU are big sup
porters of the Tartan Football Team in its 
spectacular season, and even more proud 
because one of their own is on the offen
sive front line. Senior Gary Matz, right 
guard, is just as much a winner in ROTC 
as he is in football and in the classroom. 
For his consistent play throughout the 
season and in the playoff games, Matz 
has been chosen the TARTAN Athlete 
of the Week.
Gary joined the ROTC team two years 
ago through the summer 2 week oncampus program. During his junior year 
he acquired the military skills to meet 
the challenge of ROTC Advanced Camp, 
where he came out a winner in every test. 
As this year passes, he is learning the pro
fessional skills of the Army officer as he 
opens holes in opposing defensive lines, 
and masters the chemistry curriculum. 
He is looking forward to several more 
football victories, graduation, and earning 
the bars of a 2nd Lieutenant. He hopes to 
join the Army Chemical Corps and the 
Pennsylvania Natioanl Guard.
GARY MATZ: The senior guard for the Tartans was selected All-conference first team this year.
Join the 
TARTAN 
sports staff!
DAVID W. TAYLOR 
NAVAL SHIP RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTER
located in Washington, D.C. & Annapolis, Md.
OFFERS CHALLENGINGCAREERS INENGINEERING and SCIENCE

---------------------------------------------------

December 4, 1979TARTANPage 27
1979 is 'year of the stalemate' in PAC soccer
The 1979 season proved to be the Year 
of the Stalemate in Presidents Athletic 
Conference soccer annals.
Perennial power-house, Bethanywhich 
had claimed the PAC-8 soccer title eight 
consecutive seasons (1970-7.7)and surpris
ing John Carroll-which had never won ei
ther a share or an out-right loop soccer 
crownfinished in a two-way tie for the 
circuit championship as each ended with a 
5-1 mark. ' N
During regular-seaon play, the Blue 
Streaks had defeated the BC Bisons, 2-1; 
however, both were awarded a  co-title 
based on their equal loop slates.
Paced by Jerry Czuchraj, coach Tim 
Baabs Streaks, won nine games while 
dropping two on the campaign, with their 
lone loop loss occurring to CarnegieMellon, 1-0.
Czuchraj drilled home seven goals while 
assisting on a pair of others for JCU, while 
goal-keeper, Tim Hazel permitted PAC-8 
opponents four scores in six contests.
Although coach, John Cunninghams 
Bisons were almost as stingy as JCU in 
allowing scores, BC was overwhelming in 
its own point production.
With John Sholhead scoring 10 times 
and assisting on seven other tallies en route 
to a Bison school standard of 34 career 
goals, Bethany won nine of 12 matches. 
Bill Denniston led BC with 12 goals on the 
season, assisting on four others, and Greg 
Hammeren made 88 saves in goal.
Case Western Reserve and CarnegieMellon also ended in a dead-lockfor the 
runner-up berth-as each sported 4-2 PAC8 records.
Ron Medalie paced coach Jerry Harbaks Spartans by scoring 16 goals and con
tributing three assists in 10 games, while 
goalie, Mike Carey reached the century 
mark in saves on the campaign, while regis
tering four shut-outs, including a 1-0 win 
over CMU.
The Tartans of Carnegie-Mellon, under 
the direction of coach Gene Klein, lost on
ly one other circuit tiltthat being a 1-0 
setback in overtime to Bethanyin ending 
in a tie with CWRU.
Bob Messmer, with eight goals, and 
George Canepa, with seven assists, paced 
the Tartan scoring, while goalie, Bob Farrugia matched Careys total of 100 saves on 
the season.
Allegheny, which won its fourth loop 
soccer title a year ago, dropped to a 2-4 
mark in 79.
With all-time career scoring leader, Dave
Nelson booting footballs rather than soccer 
balls as his eligibility had expired, the Ga
tor point production fell. Chris Belnap tal
lied 10 goals and four assists, while Tom 
Traub added four scores and Bob Minkel 
chipped in with a team-high six assists. Jim 
Jacob made 96 saves32 of which came 
against league opponentsfor coach Tom 
Erdos.
Putting the ball in the net was the .prob
lem for the Terriers of Hiram, as the club 
could only muster a lone loop victory over 
winless Washington & Jefferson.
With goal-keeper, Dave Burkey facing 
nearly 24 shots-on-goal per game, while 
saving 91 opposing scoring opportunities, 
Terrier scores came few and far between, 
as Marty Smiths two scores paced Pete 
Branns club in conference action.
tz ws
1^ Vtl{ i
<=
bfT
V
Start out where its happening... step into a meaningful management job
lodays Bell System is a fast-paced business with 
new doors opening every day. And tomorrow's tele
communications industry promises even more chal
lenge, diversity and accomplishment, requiring 
talented, involved and enthusiastic management 
That's where you enter the picture
In the Bell System, you start out at management 
level, which means real involvement right from day 
one. We re interested in aspiring people with
Bachelor s or Master's degrees in a wide variety of 
fields There are openings in Marketing, Engineering, 
Comptrollers (programmers and system analysts), 
Operations (construction, installation and repair, 
commercial and central office), Personnel, and Rev
enue and Finance So make an appointment today 
with your Placement Office to meet company re
cruiters representing Bell companies from across the 
country. It's opportunity knocking for you
Bell System on campus January 14
We are an equal opportunity employer.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICECALL 578-2921
^e<=^eieggas5sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssassssssssssg!sgggaai
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

UFS UPDATE
THE BAKERY/DELI 
is now featuring
2 Hot Biscuits 
with Honey 
Coffee 
.50
(Now thru Dec. 10)
By popular demand  
THE PIZZA SHOP and 
THE DELI ANNEX are 
now open for the 
month of December
Fridays 
9 PM - Midnight 
Saturdays 
7 PM-Midnight
Coupon
1 /2 Price Smoothie 
at SALADS PLUS
Good Dec. 4 thru Dec. 10
Watch for our Special Christmas Dinner Dec. 11
BAKERY-DELI/DELI ANNEX
is featuring HOLIDAY SPECIALS 
Call us for your holiday needs  
Deluxe party trays for only 
$2.95/per person. We also are 
offering a wide selection of streudels, 
stolens, fruit and nut cakes, and 
holiday wrapped candies.
For more information, Call 
Dennis or Marie at X2134 or X3093
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE

---------------------------------------------------

December 4, 1979TARTANPage 29
MITRE is.inei]u>il opportunity employer, Ji tn ely seeking applications under its Afpmutn e Actum Program.
Study examines national mass transit usage
Most transit riders have higher than 
average incomes and the bulk of transit 
subsidies in recent years has not gone to 
the poor, according to a study by CMU 
assistant professor of Civil Engineering 
Chris Hendrickson and John Pucher, 
assistant professor of Urban Planning at 
Rutgers University.
In a national survey of mass transit 
systems, they found that higher income 
households use mass transit more than do 
lower income households. In addition, 
the more affluent households report longer 
trips and a tendency to travel farther on 
each trip.
The report shows that 32.9 percent of 
all transit riders had incomes in excess of 
$15,000, wheareas only 21.1 percent had 
incomes less than $5,000, in 1970. This 
phenomenon is not only the result of 
increased income and thus greater ability 
to afford travel, explains Hendrickson, 
but also arises from factors such as lower 
unemployment among affluent households
and varying sizes of households.
Commuter rail, subways and elevated 
systems have a disproportionally high 
percentage of high-income riders, according 
to the report, Commuter rail riders are 
more affluent than auto users, and bus and 
streetcar users are considerably less 
affluent, Hendrickson says. We also 
found that rush hour travelers have higher 
incomes than those in off-peak hours. For 
example, low income households account
ed for 25 percent of rush bus patronage 
and for 41 percent of off-peak patronage. 
Conversely, high-income riders accounted 
for relatively higher percentages of bus and 
rapid transit patronage during rush hours. 
The study also found that approximate
ly 56 percent of the total transit operating 
deficit in the United States in 1976 was 
attributable to bus operations, 28 percent 
to rail rapid transit and 16 percent to 
commuter rail. Although bus services re
ceived the bulk of operating subsidies from 
the government, rail operations entailed
considerably higher deficits per passenger. 
These amounted to an average of $1.24 
per commuter rail passenger, .35 per 
rail rapid transit passenger, and only .21 
per bus passenger. Thus, bus riders, who 
have the lowest incomes, received the least 
operating subsidy per trip, says 
Hendrickson, whereas commuter rail 
passengers, who have the highest incomes 
on the avefage, benefit from a per trip 
subsidy that is almost six times as large. 
Low-income households do even worse 
with respect to the capital subsidy pro
gram. Capital grants are much more 
focused on rail rapid transit and commuter 
rail, modes used by riders considerably 
more affluent than bus riders, contends 
Hendrickson. Roughly two-thirds of the 
the total capital subsidy in 1975 went to 
the rail modes, although these modes 
accounted for only about a fourth of all 
transit patronage.
When the operating and capital subsidy 
distributions are aggregated, households
in the lowest income class receive only a 
third of the per-household total transit 
subsidy that households in the top bracket 
receive, Hendrickson says. It is very diff
icult to argue that most of the sharply 
growing transit subsidy in recent years has 
gone to the poor; they do not even appear 
to reap an equal share on a per-household 
basis.
The study also showed that as with all 
trips, most work trips are taken by private 
vehicles, regardless of earnings. In addition, 
the incidence of solo-occupant auto use in
creases markedly with higher earnings.
WE DONT OFFER JOBS... WE OFFER CAREERS.
MITRE
Theres a big difference. The MITRE Cor
poration has two major locations, with 11 
technical divisions and 63 departments. Our 
1573 members of the technical staff provide 
systems solutions to Federal, state, regional 
and local governmental agencies. Theres plen
ty of opportunity to grow in responsibility.
Many companies offer you a job which can 
broaden your career. But when the challenge 
is gone, most professionals seek a new com
pany with a new job and a new challenge. At 
MITRE we recognize this need for new chal
lenges and new opportunities. With dozens 
of sponsors and scores of projects in a wide 
variety of technologies we offer the oppor
tunity to CHANGE JOBS WITHOUT 
CHANGING COMPANIES. The direction 
of your career at MITRE is up to you. Well 
help you stay on track through our staff 
development programs. We offer 1007r tuition 
prepayment and company paid professional 
growth seminars.
At our facility in Bedford, Massachusetts 
(just outside Boston), were looking at all 
kinds of command, control and communica
tions problems as technical advisor to the Air 
Forces Electronic Systems Division.
At our McLean, Virginia facility (just out
side Washington, D.C.), were not only work
ing on defense and military systems but also 
on significant problems in air traffic control; 
energy resources and the environment; civil
MITRE will be at Carnegie Mellon on December 13,1979
information systems; information manage
ment and communications systems; ground 
transportation and more. Much more.
At either location, opportunities constantly 
arise to challenge your intelligence, your 
knowledge, your motivation. In search of 
solutions, MITRE people use the tools of 
systems engineering and analysis. If this type 
of atmosphere intrigues you and if you have 
a degree (or arc about to receive one) in elec
trical engineering, computer science, math, 
physics, or economics, wed like to know 
more about you. See your Placement Office 
to set up an on-campus interview, or send 
your resume directly to:
Jerome P. McKinnon 
The MITRE Corporation 
Bedford, MA 01730
Ronald S. Hill 
Washington Center 
The MITRE Corporation 
1820 Dolley Madison Blvd. 
McLean, VA 22102

---------------------------------------------------

Page 30TARTANDecember 4, 1979
Natural Christmas 
trees prohibited
The following memo to all students was 
written by Earle Swank, Dean of Student 
Affairs:
In the Fall of 1978 the University 
notified student organizations that natural 
Christmas trees are not permitted in Uni
versity residence halls. Individual students 
and organizations wishing to put up hol
iday decorations may not use electrical 
devices which do not bear the Under
writers Label and may not, under any 
circumstances, use natural trees.
Because of the deterioration of natural 
trees, even though they are kept in water, 
the fire hazard produced is exceptionally 
high. The occupants of any room found 
violating this regulation will be fined 
S25.00 per occupant.
This regulation will be published in 
future editions of the Student Handbook.
IRON CITY
SCHLITZ
BUD
SCHMIDTS 
CHAMPALE 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHUTZ MALT 
BALLANTINE ALE 
MILLER LIGHT 
MICHELOB 
PABST 
MILLER 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
BUSCH
SCHUTZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak SubsSERVING 8EER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERSMILLERS. COLT 45. MOLSON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK STROHS MEINEKEN LIGHTOne different 16 os 6 ok featured each *eek 
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT  uvwTou * ROLLING ROCK 
WE ARE NOT ALLUWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES SPECIALTY ITEMS FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
-------------------- IMPORTS -----------------------
HOi DOG SHOPS. INC
me80,Nbb r1 me8088bD
BASS ALE England  DORT HANSA Germany  SAM MIGUEL PhdNpmes SPATENBRAU Germany ST PAULI GIRL Gernwiy PILSNER URQUELL Ciech GUINESS STOUT Ireland DAS XX EQUIS Mexico WURZBURGER Germany HARP LAGER Ireland LOWENBRAU Germany O KEEFE ALE Canada DINKEL ACKER Germany TECATE Mexico ISENBECK W Germany IRYSTALL Italy MACKE SON England
 KIRIN Japan PERONI Italy RIGNES Norway BECKS Germany HOFBRAU Germany ZYWIEC Poland KRAKUS Poland SUPERIOR Mexico FOSltRS Auatratta HE INEKEN Holland MOLSON ALE Canada PAULANER Germany GOSSER Austria TANKARD London UNION W Germany PALE ALE London DINKEL Germany WARFTEINEL Germany3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH PA 15213
DIP you KNOW ?
PORING THE NEXT TEN YEARS,BUSINESS ANO /NOUSTRY WILL INVEST BETWEEN *2, OOO BILLION =ANO *4.000 BILLION IN |jCAPITAL EXPENSES.
tfjH/S WILL BE MORE THAN OOUBLE THE EXPENOtTURES OP THE LAST OECAOE, AVERAGING *-*1,000 FOP EVERY 
AMERICAN PROOUCnON WORKER.
l?OR A FREE COPY OPA 24 FPtSE BOOKLET ON THE AMERICAN ECONOMIC SYSTEM OISTRIBUTEO 
AS A PUBLIC SERVICE BY THE AOVER T/SING COUNCIL. WRITE-ECONOMICS, PUEBLO, 
^ COLORAOO
81009.
The Intel Notebook
Careers and Technology at Intel
The Microelectronics Revolution 
and how you can be part of it.
See us on campus December 6 & 7.
Intel is the acknowledged leader in four 
major product areas: semiconductor 
memories, microprocessors, micro
computer systems and memory systems 
And we re extending our leadership 
into data-base management
We have career opportunities available 
at any of our four great locationsCalif
ornia Oregon Arizona or Texas  in
Engineeringdesign, 
manufacturing, and fabrication 
development 
Technical Marketing 
Production Management and 
Planning 
I ! Finance
If you want to be part of the emerging 
microelectronics revolution, and are 
about to receive a degree in engineering, 
computer science, solid state physics, or 
chemical engineering we d like to talk 
with you If you haven t already signed up 
to see us on campus, feel free to leave 
your resume with one of our represen
tatives during our visit Or write to any 
of our locations
California
Intel College Relations 
3065 Bowers Avenue 
Santa Clara. CA 95051
Oregon
Intel College Relations 
3585 SW 198th Avenue 
Aloha. OR 97005
Arizona
Intel College Relations 
5000 W Williams Field Road 
Chandler. AZ 85224
Texas
Intel MRI College Relations 
12675 Research Boulevard 
Austin. TX 78759
An Equal Opportunity Employer M FH
intol
11
'..zsmsst
J
Hunt
remodelled
by Linda Dickerson
We wanted a nice, warm, comfortable 
room, explained Library Director Ruth 
Corrigan in reference to the reserve room 
remodeling project which is presently 
nearing completion. By the beginning of 
the next semester students should be able 
to use the newly refurbished facility on the 
first floor of Hunt Libary.
As a result of student requests for a 
lounge on the library side of the campus, 
campus administration and library officials 
initiated plans for the conversion of the 
reserve book room into what Ms. Corrigan 
describes as,  a comfortable place to sit, 
study, or do quiet reading, but not a social 
area. The remodeled section will eventual
ly include carpeting, draperies, wall cover
ings, and non-institutional type furniture. 
Leisure books will be moved into this area, 
and the collection of these books will be 
expanded.
After over a year of planning, the new 
section is expected to provide a more 
homey atmosphere. The lounge, modeled 
after a similar facility at the Regenstein 
Library of the University of Chicago, will 
cost the University approximately 
$25,000 to complete.
Richard Butcosk, a CMU graduate is the 
projects architect. He, Corrigan, and the 
Campus Design Committee all cooperated 
to design the room, which Corrigan hopes 
will induce students passing by,  to 
come in and utilize the area.
A new program
The College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences has begun a new European studies 
program designed to heighten student 
interest in European culture and to develop 
the linguistic skills needed for an appre
ciation of that culture.
The goals of the program are fourfold, 
according to the director, Dr. Peter N. 
Stearns, Heinz Professor of History. We 
seek to develop substantive knowledge of 
European culture and society with primary 
emphasis on Western Europe; to encourage 
the development of foreign language 
skills and their use; to develop nonparochial habits and social concerns in a 
large context; and finally, to establish seg
ments of the program as a comparative 
context for interests in business, technolo
gy and science.
Recent trends in American education 
conflict with some increasingly obvious 
national and career training needs, says 
Steams. On the one hand, study of 
non-American subjects, including foreign 
languages, has declined precipitously. On 
the other hand, United States involvement 
with the world economy, as well as its 
continred great-power military and diplo
matic role, suggests the need for growing 
attention to developments outside the 
American boundaries.
A wide variety of American companies 
are seeking personnel with appropriate 
backgrounds in foreign culture, precisely at 
a time when many educational institutions 
have pulled back from this area.
Students involved in the program will 
develop their skills in language and com
parative analysis as efficiently as possible, 
and in ways relevertt to their personal and 
professional goals. The program will en
courage students to study abroad and to 
develop experience as trainees in work 
involving European contacts.
The program offers specific courses in 
the social sciences and humanities, includ
ing several interdisciplinary offerings on 
the structure of European society, Euro
pean culture and lifestyle and foreign 
policy perspectives. Also offered is a major 
program to be taken in conjunction with 
another major.
ii~ nwnUBi in wnrtww mi irni nniin r.*  * rrr M.r.r.rkVJHM9StWVTfife

---------------------------------------------------

classified ads
Shadyside, quiet 2-bedroom apartment
$195/monthly includes heat. '687-2650 
evenings before 10:00.
Sublet  available now! Preferably male.
Located 10 to 15 min. from CMU. Call 
683-9628.
Roommate needed immediately: Two bed
room Apt., Shadyside, utilities paid, 
laundry facilities, w/w carpeting, $112.50/ 
month. Call Brian, 661-6219.
Roomate Wanted. January to May. 4
blocks from CMU. Shadyside. Call even
ings. 621-5378.
Oakland Apartment to Sublet. Semple
Street  one block off Forbes. Available 
January 1, furnished ; two bedrooms. 
$290/month + utilities. 15 minute walk 
from CMU. Call 683-7235 after 6 PM.
Wanted: Any experienced EE major to in
stall AM/FM radio and cassette player in 
1976 Vega. Fee negotiable. Please call 
Denise at 578-6370.
Need people to manage and work at
cross-country ski rental facility in Schenley 
Park  December through February. Ac
cepting full or part-time applicants. Call 
Avalanche at 833-7800.
COLLEGE STUDENTS - Local Work
Available. Full time during semester break 
and can remain part time when school re
sumes. You earn $5.25 per hr., car helpful. 
Interview now, begin work after Christmas. 
(Call 12 noon to 4 PM) 682-6284.
Work study students needed, especially
Monday, Wednesday and Friday after
noons. Other times okay. Contact Andy 
Strazds at the Center for the Study of 
Translation, ext. 3578. $3/hour.
2 United %
Anne x2107.
Fare Coupons. Best Offer.
American Airlines 50% discount coupons.
Asking $25.00. Call 621-4364 from 5 to 7 
PM.
THESE!
Foreign nationals needing legal representa
tive. Call 261-3959.
Chris Mosseau,
Happy 21st Birthday. Don't break a leg.
Love, John Alex
Helene Plotkin,
Happy Birthday, kiddo. Don't spike 
your old floors new. F!A
Dear Honorable Ann, I'm not serious.
Saint Fred
P.S. Yet.
Karen B,
A very belated birthday, Angel. How 
does breakfast a la Benedict or a Hot 
Fudge sound?
Love, "Charlie"
MED
clubs
, it*.Interested in asH
 r.Hospital Volunteer
1 >
Kiltie Band welcomes new members for
the concert season. All musicians are wel
come; especially needed are clarinet play
ers,- flutists, etc. Anyone interested may 
join by attending ^practice sessions each 
Monday at 5:00 PM in the Wherrett 
Room.
The first Spring Carnival Booth meeting
will be held Tuesday, December 4, at 7 
PM in Skibo, Room 11. Every organiza
tion planning to build a booth on the 
midway should send a representative to 
this meeting.
Booth chairpersons from the partici
pating organizations will choose the theme 
this year. At the first meeting, ideas for a 
theme will be generated. Spring Carnival 
Executive Committee will then limit these 
ideas to three possible themes. Booth 
chairpersons will finally vote and approve 
the theme.
International Student Organization invites
interested American and International Stu
dents to their weekly meeting December 6 
in Skibo Room 11 at 6:00 PM about par
ticipation in upcoming events.
There will be a Philosphy Club meeting on
Wednesday, December 5, at 8 PM in the 
Wherrett Room. Guest Lecturer will be 
Captain Ray of Light. It is free and open 
to the public.
The Basic Judaism discussion group will
meet 6:30 to 7:30 PM at B'nai B'rith 
Hillel, Wednesday, December 5, 315 S. 
Bellefield. This week's guest will be 
Gershon Peleg, Israel Shaliach to Pitts
burgh. This is a unique opportunity for 
college students to ask questions and get 
first-hand information about Israel.
"Children of Holocaust Survivors"  a new
group in which people are encouraged to 
share their feelings and personal exper
iences, will meet at 8 PM in the Rogal 
Room of the Jewish Community Center, 
2nd floor, 315 S. Bellefield. This is not a 
therapy session. Anyone who considers 
himself or herself a child of a Holocaust 
survivor is welcome to attend. Dr. Ray 
Naar, psychologist will be the facilitator 
for the evening.
"An Historical Look at the American
Jewish Woman, Her Family and Her 
Work'' will be the topic of a lecture by Dr. 
Corinne Krause, a local historian, on Thurs
day, December 6vThis open-ended discus
sion is free and open to the public. The 
lecture will begin at 8:30 PM in the Rogal 
Room on the second floor of the Jewish 
Community Center, 315 S. Bellefield.
The Hillel Leadership Council will meet
at 12 PM on Thursday, December 6, in 
Room 33 of Skibo Hall. Come share your 
ideas for future Hillel programs.
Shabbat Services and dinner begin at 5:30
PM at B'nai B'rith Hillel, on Friday, 
December7, at 315 S. Bellefield. Tonight
is a $2.50 special and will feature a special 
dramatic reading based on the writings of 
Sholom Aleichem. Reservations should be 
made in advance by calling 621-8875. 
Christian Advent Light and Prayer Service: 
The CMU Campus Ministry Council will 
sponsor an Advent Light Service of prayer 
and song on Monday, December 10 at 8 
PM in the CMU Chapel (Skibo 39). Open 
to all.
The Feast of the Immaculate Conception
will be celebrated by the Roman Catholic 
Chaplaincy (University Oratory Parish)- 
with an anticipated Mass on Friday, 
December 7 at 7 PM and a Mass on 
Saturday, December 8 at 12 Noon. Both 
will be held in the Hunt Library Multi
purpose Room (Use Frew Street Entrance). 
All are welcome.
Daily Mass is celebrated by the Roman
Catholic Chaplaincy (The Univ. Oratory 
Parish) Monday through Friday at 12:30 
PM in CMU's Chapel, Skibo 39. If your 
time is limited because of the lunch hour 
please feel free to eat your lunch first and 
still receive the Eucharist. We invite the 
campus community to come and join us.
Student Senate  1 seat is vacant in CIT.
Petitions are available at Skibo Information 
Desk.official
President Richard M. Cyert will have
open office hours for students between 3 
and 5 PM in his office on Friday, Decem
ber 7, 1979. Students who wish to meet 
with the president should telephone his of
fice, 578-2200, to set up an appointment. 
It is hoped that this program will be a 
benefit to both the president and the stud
ents in allowing students direct contact 
with him.
John P. Crecine, Dean of College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences will have open
office hours for students on Tuesday from 
1:30 PM to 3:30 PM.general
Get Involved!!! Would you like to: get
more financial aid, be heard on campus, 
get involved politically on a state and 
national level, do something on campus. 
We can show you how to do all these 
things and many, many more. We have no 
requirements on how much time you must 
spend or what you must do, it is all up to 
you. So come out and find out how to get 
involved at the first meeting of COPUS 
(Coalition of Private University Students). 
Thursday, December 6, 7:00 PM, Rm 12 
Skibo.
Get the Dean's List edge over your class -
mates. Come^. to the Communication 
Skills Center and for no fee whatsoever, 
we'll teach, advise, and answer questions 
in all parts of the writing process. Our 
staff works with all subject matter: resu
mes, research papers, letters, applications, 
literature papers, rhetoric study, science 
assignments, and any other writing task 
you can think of.
Our Communication Skills Center, on 
the first floor of Baker Hall, is equipped
with a library of writing books, exper
ienced and eager staff, and writing lessons 
on the computer. To top all this, we have 
prime office space with a scenic view of the 
Carnegie-Mellon campus.
We are open Monday through. Friday. 
9:00 AM to 4:00 PM. Hurry. Don't be the 
last person in your class to take advantage 
of the Comm. Skills Center.
OPTICAL SOCIETY OF AMERICA, Pitts
burgh Section presents an "Illustrated talk 
on Jupiter and its moons by Prof. Alvin 
J. Cohen of University of Pittsburgh., 
This lecture will be held at 8:30 PM, 
Wednesday, December 5 in the multi
purpose room of Hunt Library. This lec
ture is free and open to the public.
Self Defense classes for women of high
school age or older are being offered by 
the Feminist Karate Union beginning 
January 15, 16, and 19, 1980 at Falk 
School Gymnasium, Allequippa St., 
Oakland. These classes meet on Tuesdays 
from 7:00 to 8:30 PM, Wednesdays from 
5:30 to 7:00 PM, and Saturdays from 
noon to 1.30 PM. Information and re
gistration forms may be obtained by 
mailing a stamped, self addressed enve
lope to: Ms. Bobbi Snyder, 1724 Sillview Drive, Pgh Pa. 15243, or by call
ing 276-4527 or 683-8827.
Slippery Rock State College will be hold
ing a symposium on Monday, December 
10th for students who are interested in at
tending graduate school. There will be 20 
graduate schools represented at the sym
posium, including CMU, University of 
Pittsburgh, Kent State, and West Virginia 
University. Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer of Parker/Hunter, 
Inc., David Hunter will give the keynote 
speech entitled "Why Graduate School." 
The symposium will be held from 10 AM 
until 1 PM in the Multi-Purpose Room of 
the Student Union. Everyone is welcome.
Events, announcements and Classifieds: 
Deadline is Wednesday at 5 PM. No late 
announcements or classifieds will be ac
cepted.
Classified must be typed or printed 
neatly on 8 x 11 inch paper. Payment 
must be made either by cash or check. 
Classifieds over $5.00 may be billed to 
you.
Events and Announcements must be 
submitted before Wednesday at 5 PM and 
must be typed or written neatly on 8 x 11 
inch paper. The criteria for selecting an
nouncements for publication is as follows:
1) The event or announcement must be 
open to the whole campus community.
2) The event or announcement must be 
of general interest and not for the benefit 
of a very limited group of people.
Because of limitations, the TARTAN 
cannot guarantee placement of any an
nouncement or event. The editors and 
staff will attempt in good faith to include 
all announcements and events which 
meet the above criteria.
Classified Rates: Ads are $.10 per 
word. Announcements are free to campus 
or non-profit organizations._____________
Health Professson
S..--.
-7TVT
t *Positions Available
ti ml,  t,
li ^ r lit
-ii^i^rirn ni/*rtmsd n

---------------------------------------------------

a.b,
December 6 at 6,8 and 10 PM 
Mon Ortcle Antoine in DH 2210
Admission $.75 with CMU ID/$ 1 without
December 7 at 6, 8, 10, and 12 PM 
Murder by Decree in DH 2210 
Admission $1 with CMU ID/$1.25 without 
This is the most honored Canadian film 
ever made, winning eight out of ten major 
Canadian "Oscars." It is said to be one of 
the best chronicles of age since Truffaut's 
400 Blows.
films
December 4 at 8 PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hail
The Jean Renoir Directors Series con
tinues with the presentation of French 
Can-Can. Admission is $1.50.
December 5 at 7 PM 
Porter Hall 100
The CMU German film series presents 
Schonzeit Fur Fuchse. Free admission.
December 8 at 6:30, 9, 11:30 PM 
DH 2210
SDC presents Little Big Man. Admisssion is 
$.50 w/ID, $1 without.
December 9 at 7:30 PM 
Carneige Institute Lecture Hall
The history of Cuba is depicted in Lucia. 
Admission is $1.50.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theater Center,
Craft Avenue, Oakland
This week's film repertory includes: Tues
day, Sundays and Cybels; Wednesday, 
Autumn Sonata; Thursday, Trouble in Par
adise; Friday, 1900 (one show only  
7:30 PM); Saturday, King of Hearts (7:30, 
9:30, 11:30); Sunday, Gone With the Wind 
(one' show only  7:30 PM); Monday, 
The Horse's Mouth. All movies are shown 
at 7:30 and 9:30 PM, except where noted. 
Admission is $2.50.
WQED - TV (13) Highliqhts 
December 4
10 PM  A Farewell to Arms, starring 
Helen Hayes & Gary Cooper 
December 5
8 PM  Great Performances, Carmen, by 
the Vienna State Opera.
December 6
7:30 PM  An Evening with Ella Fitzgerald
9 PM  Bluegrass Spectacular 
December 7
7 PM Mountbatten: Man for the Cen
tury, Part IV.
9 PM  Love Me or Leave Me 
December 8
5 PM  Bluegrass Spectacular
7:30 PM  Monty Python's Flying Circus
8 PM  Satchmo, a retrospective of Louis 
Armstrong.
10 PM  High Society, starring Bing 
Crosby, Grace Kelly, and Frank Sinatra.
music
Holiday House 
Route 22, Monrcaville.
November 23- December 8-The Lettermen 
December 9-16- AI Martino 
December 17-22- Peaches and Herb 
For more information call 351-1385.
Upcoming Concerts
December 4- Rainbow, featuring Ritchie 
Blackmore. Stanley Theatre, 
7:30 PM.
December 9-Aerosmith, with special guest, 
Scorpions. Civic Arena, 7:30 
PM.
December 15-Roy Buchannan at the Stan
ley. Theatre, 7:30 PM. 
Tickets are available at the respective 
showplaces or at National Record Marts.
State Music Hall 
Uniontown, PA
December 8  Oak Ridge Boys and 
Back Up and Push 
December 15  Freddy Fender/Red Sovine 
For information call 439-1360.
December 5 at 8 PM 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
A recital will be given by Valarie Brand and 
Brian Del Signore featuring saxophone and 
percussion.
December 7 at 8 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown.
Fred Waring and the Young Pennsylvan
ians will present "The Best of Best. 
Tickets are $9,$8,$7. For information 
call 281-8185.
December 7 at 8:30 PM 
Recital Hall, Duquesne University.
A recital will be given by Duquesne Univer
sity faculty members, Alan Girshman (vio
linist) and Gladys Stein (piano). Free ad
mission.
December 7, from 8-11 PM 
4836 Ellsworth Avenue, Oakland.
Foxfire will play acoustic folk-rock at the 
Friends Meeting House. Admission: $3.00. 
December 7 - WRCT and The Wizard will 
be presenting a morning of special enter
tainment, beginning at midnight on Friday 
with an interview of Jefferson Starship gui
tarist, Craig Chaquico and music of the Air
plane and the Starship. Following will be a 
50 minute special: The Best of the Yardbirds, including some rare tracks. Cuts 
from the new Pink Floyd album, The Wall, 
will also be featured.
December 9 at 2:30 PM
4338 Bigelow Boulevard, Oakland.
The Pittsburgh Camerata will perform 
their Christmas con'cert entitled A Cere
mony of Carols at the Western Pennsylvan
ia Historical Society. Free admission. 
December 9 at 4 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown 
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society presents 
Vladimir Horowitz. Tickets range from 
$7.50 to $30. For ticket information call 
281-5000.
December 9 at 8:30 PM
5700 Forbes Avenue, Squirrel Hill
The 415 Players present a program of 
Baroque chamber music. The performance 
at the Church of the Redeemer will feature 
works by Bach, Marais, Vivaldi, Teleman, 
and Hotteterre. Admission for students 
is $2.00.
December 13 at 9:30 PM 
27th and Jane Streets, South Side
As part of human rights week, Acapella 
Gold and Arty Tedesco will perform at 
Wobblie Joe's. For more information call 
431-2923 after 8 PM.
December 16 at 8 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown
Walt Maddox in concert with a tribute to 
Nat King Cole. Guests include Milton 
Berle, Lenny Litman. For ticket infor
mation call 281-5000.
December 14 at 8:30 PM 
December 15 at 8 PM 
December 16 at 2:30 PM 
Heinz Hall, Penn Avenue, Downtown.
Emil Tchakarov conducts the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra performing selections 
from Haydyn, Saint-Sans, Debussy, and 
Stavinsky. Violinist Chou LiangLin will 
perform. For more information, call
281-5000.
December 18 at 8 PM 
Warner Theater, Downtown
Alicia de Larrocha, pianist, will give a 
recital. Tickets are $5, $7.50, $10.sports
Pitt-December 4- Men's Basketball vs.
Johnstown (A) 8 PM. 
December 5- Men's Basketball vs. Walsh 
College (H) 8 PM.
Swimming vs. Westminster 
(H) 4 PM.
Women's Basketball vs. Steu
benville (H) 7 PM!
December 7-J.V. Men's Basketball vs.
Pittsburgh Technical Institute 
(H) 6 PM.
Men's Basketball vs. Bucknell 
(H)8 PM.December 8-Swimming triad at Slippery 
Rock 2 PM.arts
Through December 16 
Velar Gallery, GSIA Building
Fiberstance, a group show, will be on dis
play. Gallery hours are 9 AM-5 PM, Mon
day through Friday.
December 4-9
Forbes and Margaret Morrison
The Forbes Street Gallery features artists, 
Irene Hobbs, Lisa Gerstbrein, and Mary Jo 
Deley. Admission is free, and Gallery hpurs 
are from Tuesday through Sunday 12:30 
4:30, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday 
evenings, from 7-9.
December 6-9 
Craft Avenue, Oakland.
The American Dance Ensemble presents 
Nutcracker. For advance ticket informa
tion call 621-4445.
December 8-14 
Grace Library, Carlow College 
Francesco Crea and Nanette Boeh will pre
sent "Senior Art Show, " in the Mellon 
Galleries. For more information, call 578- 
6028.
December 10 at 5:30 PM 
Carnegie Museum of Art Theatre
Budd Hopkins, a New York artist, will 
speak on "The Painting of deKooning." 
Mr. Hopkins' paintings can be found 
among the collections of Guggenheim Mu
seum, Whitney Museum, and Hirschhom. 
Free admission.
December 10-11 ; 10 AM-6 PM 
Pitt Student Union
Local craftspeople will exhibit and demon
strate their crafts, including a wide variety 
of gifts for sale.
Through February 29,1980 
Carnegie Institute
Carnegie Museum is the first of three major 
rmiseums across the country to receive the 
exhibition "Feather Arts: Beauty, Wealth, 
and Spirit From Five Continents." The ex
hibition is on display during regular muse
um hours.
What to you want for Christmas? Tell the TARTAN by Dec. 6th
(Mail letters to Box 17, Campus Mail)... you just might get it...
theater
December 7 at 8 PM 
4515 Forbes Avenue
Poetry will be featured by readers Michael 
Wurster and William Welch at the Alter
native Coffeehouse. Free admission. 
December 8-9 at 8 PM 
FHdy Theatre, Chatham College 
The Chatham College Department of 
Drama presents Taken in Marriage. For 
more information, call 441-8200, ext. 224. 
Through December 9 at 8:30 PM nightly. 
500 Sampsonia Way, North Side 
Isadora, American Legend starriny Ann 
Bpinnl, will be presented.
November 16December 13 
Babcock Boulevard
Opening the Bevery Hills Playhouse season 
will be the presentation of The Lady Who 
Cried Fox. Tickets .are available for a 
dinner/theatre package or just for the 
show. Call 931-9976 for more information. 
December 12-14 at 8 PM nightly 
Allegheny Community College 
South Campus West Mifflin 
The Rogers and Hart review, Bewitched, 
Bothered and Bewildered, will be presented 
by the Drama Department. Call 469-1100 
for ticket information.
November 14 - December 23 
Allegheny Theatre, North Side 
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
Anton Chekhov's comedy, The Seagull. 
For ticket information, call 765-3400. 
Through December 16 
4616 Baum Boulevard 
Dynamite Tonight by Arnold Weisten, 
will be presented by Theatre Express. 
Showings at 8:30 PM on Thursdays, 
Fridays, Saturdays; Sunday matinee at 
2:30 PM.
Through December 16 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, Craft Avenue
The Professional Playhouse Theatre Com
pany presents the explosive drama, 
Clarence Darrow. For more information, 
call 621-4445.special
December 5 at 4 PM 
Scaife Hall Auditorium
Nat Wyeth, famous inventor for Du Pont, 
and brother of Andrew Wyeth, will speak 
on "Creativity and the Engineer in con
junction with the American Society of 
Mechanical Engiheers. Open to the CMU 
community.
December 5 at 8 PM 
Duquesne University Ballroom
Senator Julian Bond, D-Georgia, will speak 
on defining the ideals and concerns of the 
New Politics. Tickets available at the door. 
Call 434-6640 for more information.
December 6 at 7:30 PM 
Wherrett Room, Skibo
The Career Development Committee pre
sents "How To Be Your Own Boss," a sem
inar featuring CMU alumni who are in 
business for themselves. You will have the 
opportunity to meet with each speaker 
individually in Order to have your ques
tions answered. Free admission.
December 7-8 at 8 PM.
Stanley Theatre, Downtown.
The triumphant return of the smash 
Broadway musical Jesus Christ Superstar
comes to Pittsburgh for two performances 
only. Tickets are $8.75 and $9.75.
Saturday, December 8 at 8 PM
Jewish Community Center
315 S. Bellefield Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Come and enjoy the hilarious and creative
comedy of the nationally renowned
iinprovisational group, Second City.
Tickets: $6.00. For more information call
the Adult Department, 621 6500.
