mmmnmna]
*
 art an
Published Weekly By 
Students Of The Carnegie Technical Schools.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
ByByByByByByByByByByByByByByvyByByBy
1 P. Ludebuehl & Son I
* vg CUSTOM O
1 FITTING P
g SHOES o
S 88 S5.00 $4.00 S3.50 g
 *
* PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVES. *
* 8y East End
 ^XOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXDXO ByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByBy
*o
**o
g*
gB3
Miln National Bank
514 SM ITH FI ELD STREET
409 FIFTH AVENUE
CAPITAL$4,000,000
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS 
OF STUDENTS.
Resources over 41 Millions.
ByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByBy
% BOWLING ALLEYS 
I 12 REGULATION ALLEYS %
S PRIVATE ALLEYS FOR LADIESFINEST APPOINTED PLACE IN THE CITY $ BILLIARD AND POOL ROOM %
g WILL OPEN EARLY IN JANOARY 
OAKLAND WTTATORIUM I
I AND ATHLETIC CLUB g
* 3607-3615 FORBES STREET 8 *ByByBy^yByByByByByByByByByByByByyB;y
pyBvByByByByByByByByByBy^yByByByByBy
8aBEST EQUIPHENT
Highest 
Grade 
Work
Prompt 
Service
Established 1893Both Phones
OXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXDXOX
ByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByByBy
*o*0*0 * 0 1 * 
0
1
NOTICE!
FOR SUPPLIES AND TOOLS SEE 
OUR CATALOGUE IN REFERENCE
818II
g*
g
gg ROOM, THEN COME TO OUR STORE J 
8 AND GET PRICES
'*
*OSUPPLY CO.
209 Water Street
EXTRA FIVE PER CENT. DISCOUNT 
IF YOU MENTION THE TARTAN
I 1 I I I
I *&
13 OX.OXOXOXOXOXOX^XOXOXO'XOXOXOXOXOX^X % 
0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X3X0X0X0X3X0X
 WOLFE BRUSH CO. 
* Established 1848 &
g HIGH GRADE BRUSHES 1
<2 ONE FOR EVERY PURPOSE g
$ FOR THE BATH, TOILET, COMPLEXION g
| SHAVING SETS TRAVELERS SETS g
 MANICURE AND SCISSOR SETS *
  ' S
1 P.P Ludebhl &Seo n
? Foot of Fifth Ave. g
^ Factory at 15th and Bingham Sts. S. S. f*
 KyByB:y0yByByB.yByBy<yyB:yByByByByD:yByByB
OXOXOXOXvXOXOXOXOXO.XOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOX
 JOHN WANAMAKER 
$? New YBrk Merchant TailBring ^
 Every cent you pay goes for clothing excellence, g 
% It is part of that system to have the best help that g
# can be hired, the most skill, the most style and to
 charge nothing extra for it. 8
^ Neednt charge extrawinter styles are ripe * 
& biggest values goingand all the style and fit. & 
. Ready-Made Overcoats
jjf Are you in doubt as to the precise length and 
^ shape the Overcoat should be? You can see it W
<> hereREADY TO PUT ON. *
I bo 5o 4buMMuhT H FEo D0 Sixth Ave. and Smithfield St. ^
XOXOXSXOXOXSXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXOXO

---------------------------------------------------

tartan
VOL. II, No. 18 PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 29, 1908TEN CENTS
Students Wish Director Hamerschlag Bon Voyage
Last week witnessed the first chance the stu
dents of the day schools have had to testify to the 
regard in which they hold Director Hamerschlag. 
At 10.30 all classes were dismissed, on request of 
the Senior class President of the Day School of 
Applied Science. All the students of day schools 
assembled in the general assembly room to receive 
the Director. When Doctor Hamerschlag entered 
the room he was greeted with a noisy outburst of 
cheering, so enthusiastic that it got beyond the con
trol of cheer leader Parsons.
After the cheering and applause had ceased 
President Henderson of the Senior Class addressed 
the Director, and in a few well chosen words ex
pressed the students wish for a pleasant voyage 
and a safe return.
As Doctor Hamerschlag rose to reply there 
was another outburst of applause.
The Director was deeply touched and for a few 
minutes seemed unable to reply in his usual ever 
ready style. After thanking the students for their 
good wishes, which were all the more acceptable to 
him on account of their spontaneity, he launched 
into a discussion of school affairs as directed by the 
students, in his usual forceful style. He said he 
had noticed in the Tartan a complaint of lack of 
school spirit, and while he believed in crying out 
for it until we finally should get it, he did not won
der that it was not greater, as he realized that the 
lack of facilities for student activities must needs 
mitigate against them.
His remarks on facilities for student organiza
tions led him to speak on the vote for an increased 
donation to secure the new athletic field. He said 
the vote as cast showed an overwhelming majority 
for the increase, but that a large number of stu
dents had not voted at all. Those students who did 
not vote had in his opinion not performed a duty 
incumbent upon them to express an opinion on all
matters affecting them. He said: The student
who fails to exercise his franchise as a student will 
fail to do so as a citizen, and failing to do so will 
be derelict in his duty as a good citizen. He closed 
his remarks with a strong appeal for good citizen
ship and a few closing phrases of thanks and ap
preciation for the ovation.
This leave-taking afforded the students a chance 
of listening to the Director when in his happiest 
vein and served to show them how staunch a friend 
they have in him and cannot but knit closer the 
already strong friendship between the Director and 
the student body.
-----o-----
The following is a copy of the friendship letter 
tendered Dr. Hamerschlag before his departure for 
Europe by the faculty of the School of Apprentices 
and Journeymen:
January 22; 1908.
Mr. Arthur A. Hamerschlag,
Director Carnegie Technocal Schools:
Dear Director: This letter is intended to con
vey to you from the Faculty of the School for Ap
prentices and Journeyman, the expression of our 
earnest hope that you may have a safe and pleasant 
journey, both on sea and land; our trust that you 
shan be greatly benefited by it in every way; our 
confidence that in foreign lands your presence and 
personality shall tend to increase the prestige of 
American schools in general and our beloved Tech 
in particular; and our regret which is that we shall 
be deprived for so long a time of your valued daily 
counsel and encouragement.
Although written by direction of the Chairman 
of the Faculty, in accordance with a unanimous 
vote, it is not our desire as members of that body 
that this communication shall be considered as a

---------------------------------------------------

4 THE TARTAN
formal, or perfunctory, set of resolutions, but rather 
as a joint personal letter. We should each like to 
write a parting letter to you, but as we realize that 
the days on the water ought to be free from trou
ble, we shall spare you the task of reading so many, 
feeling that we shall have earned your gratitude by 
simply signing our names to this one.
With the hope that nothing may arise to mar 
the pleasure of your trip or prevent your safe re
turn at the appointed time, and confidently expect
ing that one result of it shall be the adding of a 
new quality to your fame, viz., that it shall be said 
of you, He foreign countries knew, but they were 
known, not for themselves, but to advance his own. 
We wish you to think of us as 
Yours very cordially,
Signed by Day and Night Faculty.
-------o-------
CIVIL ENGINEERING SOCIETY.
'Saturday, January 25, the Civil Society held its 
regular meeting in the school building. A good 
majority of the members were present and all were 
greatly pleased with the program rendered, which 
was instructive as well as entertaining.
.One of the aims of the society is to give its 
members an opportunity to address the meeting and 
discuss freely subjects in which they are interested, 
without undue embarrassment and a great amount 
of preparation. Many members of this society have 
had considerable practical expression along Engin
eering and industrial lines and are able to speak 
intelligently on many subjects of great interest to 
the society as a whole.
This is especially true of Mr. Watrous, who was 
first called upon, and the manner in which he ex
plained methods of coal mining with the aid of 
sketches on the black board proved him to be master 
of his subject. His talk was especially interesting 
to those who have not had the opportunity of mak
ing a study of the methods employed in removing 
coal from the ground.
Next called was Mr. Ketter. Mr. Ketter has 
had considerable experience on electric street rail
ways and explained many of the new methods cff 
transmitting a higher power over the same amount 
of copper and thereby saving both copper wire and 
extra power houses being able to send and dis
tribute the current over a longer stretch. He spoke 
briefly of the third-rail system and how it was used. 
When speaking of the wonderful automatic tele
phone, Prof. Thayer reminded us of the fact that 
an automatic draughtsman was the latest creation 
in wonders. It proved, however, to be a very sim
ple device and especially useful in making deciduous 
trees on topographical maps. Mr. Reeds attention 
is called to this fact that he may keep an eye on 
the Junior Civils, particularly to those who have not 
completed their forests.
Mr. Lathem, who had previously been in the 
employ of the American Bridge Company, gave a
very interesting talk on the manner of detailing col
umns and beams in structural designs and pointed 
out some of the hard problems which confront a 
green draughtsman when he first enters the office, 
such, for instance, as sending him on a hunt for 
the folio of sky hooks.
The program was completed by Mr. Baughner, 
who went into the secrets of the oil industry. It 
is no secret to him, however. He comes from a 
section of the country which has the reputation of 
being one of the oldest as well as one of the most 
productive oil and gas fields in West Virginia.
Mr. Baughner is entirely familiar with this 
work and his account of shooting the wells and in
cidents leading up to this point was entirely new 
to many who have never lived in the oil country.
At the close of the program a lunch of sand
wiches, coffee and cigars was served, after which 
the society adjourned.
---------o---------
THE TARTAN CALENDAR.
Wednesday, January 29. 
BASKET BALL PRACTICE.
Friday, January 31. 
BASKET BALL PRACTICE. 
MEETING OF DAY CANDIDATES FOR TRACK 
TEAM IN ASSEMBLY HALL AT 4 P. M. 
NIGHT MEN AT 7.00 P. M. 
GRAND ORCHESTRA REHEARSAL IN ASSEM
BLY ROOM AT 4.30 P. M.
Saturday, February 1. 
TRACK CANDIDATES REPORT AT 10 A. M. FOR 
CROSS-COUNTRY RUN.
Sunday, February 2. 
GLEE CLUB PRACTICE.
Monday, February 3. 
BASKET BALL PRACTICE.
Notices to appear in the Calendar should be in the 
hands of the editor not later than Monday noon.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools
HEEREN BROS. &CO. MANUFACTURING JEWiLEHS and SILVERSMITHS,
---------HEEREN BUILDING, PENN AVE. & 8TH ST.---------
We are the Makers of the Carnegie Tech. School Pins
oceo<^ceo0oodo6okceceoec@ceo6ceoece3ec83doec^o9o8ceo0c8o(cececeo6c)eas s
I PLEBES I
To those in a position to know, it has seemed 
during the past week, that some improvement in 
class attitude, let us call it, has shown itself. All 
that a paper can ever do in a matter of this kind is 
to bring the condition of affairs into notice, and it 
lies with you what is going to be done about it. Af
ter all, one is forced to disagree with the sometimes 
quoted theory, that all humanity is divided into two 
classes, positives and negatives, and believe that 
there is a large sub-division who should be called 
neutrals. A positive being is of the aggressive 
type who does things, a negative of the opposite va
riety, and a neutral, we would add, a luke-warm 
being who has to be thoroughly stirred up to be 
either or anything. A little of the stirring up hav
ing been done, it is gratifying to see such a large 
number of neutrals, come to, and after first deciding 
to be something, turn positive. Theyre not out of 
danger yet, however. Like a small or weak magnet, 
a strong negative could very easily reverse the po
larity of their attitude, and have them pointing the 
wrong way in a jiffy.
Owing to a misplaced heading in last weeks 
issue, the 1910 night men has their news placed 
under the Plebe editors name.
Pirof. TrinksThe Refrigerating Engineer is 
the cold storage man, not the ice man.
DittmanI know what I have learned if I can't 
quite express it. Now, you see, if I fill this flask
with water, then invert it and let the water run 
out, I will have a vacuum.
In Machine Sihop, when speaking of recenter
ing workThe hole on mine sticks out.
Plebe in the Chemical Lab.Mr. Stevens, 
where can I get an automatic (pneumatic) trough?
The following is qquoted from an Erie (Pa.) 
newspaper of recent date: Miss Martha L. Root,
of Pittsburg, who is enjoying a fortnights outing 
at the Springs with her parents at their cottage on 
Main street, was one of the guests of honor at a 
beautifully appointed dinner party given by Mrs. 
Delroy Root, of Cambridge (Springs, on Tuesday 
evening, Prof. E. S. Stanford, of the Carnegie Tech
nical Schools, and Frank Root of Pittsburg, being 
others who shared the honors of the occasion.
In last weeks issue it was stated that Barrett 
had been elected manager of the basket ball team. 
The name should have read, Bootes.
Prof. Hokanson, last term after Baker had 
come in lateYou are absent whether you are 
here or not.
WolffWill we have an examination?
Mr. YatesNo.
Oh, I was just getting ready to drop through 
a hole in the floor.
Well, it wouldnt take a very big hole, my boy. 
Eh?
J. R. JonesGreece lies in the valley of the 
Nile. Well it does.
Prof. TrinksNow this is the looks of the 
thing.
Students Hats 
and 6aps
A FAMOUS NEW YORK HATTER 
MAKES
SBft hats in Bur new PanamaFelts 
in all cBlBrs with plain Br fancy bands. 
Tweed caps in smart patterns Bf bBth 
fBreign and dBmestic manufacture. 
Derby, Silk and Opera Hats in the 
fashiBnable yBung mens styles.
TT ETTING
Fifth and Wylie TWO stores Seventh and Smithfield

---------------------------------------------------

6 THETARTAN
I I M. M. C. S. |
P<X#>C^C*>O.0iC^}<X>OO.O^
Miss Mabel Corbould, 09...................Editor-in-Chief
Miss Frances Looney, 09................Business Manager
Miss Helen George has been very seriously ill 
and it was thought for a time that she could nQt 
recover and be with us again.
Miss Marguerite Law has been absent from 
school during the past three weeks owing to the 
serious illness of her aunt. We hope that she too 
may be with us again.
Miss L.Jacksons campaign was his greatest 
millinery (military) work.
Miss StonerMiss A., what do the ribs do in 
the aspiration of the thorax?
Miss A.They contract.
A VISITOR.
Last Friday at noon the school was visited by a 
former member of the Class of 1909, Mrs. Walter K. 
Adams. Some of the member^ of the Household Arts 
class had a luncheon prepared, and the repast was 
thoroughly enjoyed by all present.
In the afternoon Mrs. Adams inspected the 
building and took much interest in The Little 
House Upstairs. We hope that Mrs. Adams will 
visit us again in the near future.
The class in Technical Dressmaking is design
ing and. making evening dresses for their final ex
amination. The requirements are that they be made 
over a drop skirt and that they be suitable for even
ing wear. They are first thought out on paper in 
Costume Design class; then the amount and cost 
of the materials are reckoned in estimate class; and 
finally, in the sewing room the young dress-makers 
plunge into the drafting, cutting and fitting of the 
gowns.
Some of the dresses are now well under way, 
and Miss Moran is busy with criticisms and sugges
tions. When the costumes are completed they will 
be exhibited to all who are interested in the dress
making department.
Nearly every day brings some visitors to our 
school, and they are always welcome. They are 
taken over the entire building and seem particularly 
interested in the laundry down in the basement, 
which is now being used by all classes. The rooms 
are very attractive, the washing room has enamel 
tubs, centrifugal wringer and power washing ma
chine; the ironing room is well fitted up with iron
ing boards, each with a gas heated stand for the 
iron, also sleeve boards, and when needed a fluting 
iron The girls at work in their big aprons add a 
most attractive touch to the rooms every one is 
willing to admit.
Feasts seem to be the style at present. Last 
Friday two were in progress at the same time in 
the lunch room. Did you have a bite?
-------o------
THE NATIONAL TUBE WORKS AT McKEESPORT.
On Saturday morning last those of the Senior 
Mechanicals who could rouse themselves in time 
made the short journey to the National Tube Works 
at McKeesport. The object of the trip was to give 
the students some ideas regarding steel works in 
general, and prime movers in particular. The 
party left the general office at about 8.45 and was in 
charge of Prof. Trinks and Mr. Sproul at first, Mr. 
iSetz appearing later. The blast furnaces were first 
visited and some time was spent in looking at a 
Hewlet ore car dumper used for picking up railroad 
cars and emptying .them onto the stock pile. The 
Bessemer and open hearth plants were next visited, 
after which the students inspected and spent con
siderable time in looking at the large slabbing 
mill built for the company by the Mesta Machine 
Company. A picture of this mill hangs in the Me
chanical laboratory here at the schools.
The main object of the trip, however, was to 
observe the working of the 2,000 horse-power AllisChalmers Gas Engine, in the electric power plant 
of the works. This engine operates on blast fur
nace gas, which is first cleaned by the Thieson pro
cess, a German invention. There are two cranks to 
this engine, one on each end of the main shaft, and 
the electric generator is located between the two 
parts of the engine. Two sets of electro-magnetic 
igniters are provided for firing the charge, and the 
engine is governed by a Hartung governor. Another 
engine of the same size is at present being erected 
just beside this one, so that the students had a 
good chance to see the working parts.
Some fine new blowing units built by the South
wark Foundry and Machine Company are in oper
ation in the blowing house. The company has 
lately erected an immense new building one story 
in height, of saw-tooth roof construction, and con
taining the smaller tube welding and straightening 
departments.
The tour was finished at about noon and all were 
pleased with what they had seen.
-------o-------
IN THE EDITORS MAIL.
Pittsburg, Pa., Jan. 23, 1908. 
Editor-in-Chief The Tartan:
Dear Sir: Kindly insert, if possible, and oblige
One who believes in signs.
If the editors of the Thistle do not soon get 
busy, they will have to name their annual the 
Thorn.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
mmna]mmmmmn*mmnvS8na*mmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmm
I NIGHTNINETEEN TEN |
5.*m0S$S04430S*na]*mmn08mn*g0S$S30S44aSa3
Reed of 3-C shaved with a safety razor Friday 
night, and the blood which came from the cut, 
flowed so freely all evening that he was rather 
weak at the end of the Lab. period.
In the Physic Lab.Summers and Considine 
worked industriously for three hours on the spe
cific heat of a liguid by cooling, and after the ex
periment was all over threw away the water before 
weighing it! Bright boys, these.
President Smith has recovered from a bad at
tack of grip, and is doing business at the old stand 
again. Glad to see you back, George.
 * i '  i . I| ; : ; 1 ! |. f  L : ,  I * * ,
In the Civils recently, Mr. Reed was explaining 
the effect on the compass, of some outside attrac
tion at one end of a survey line, when the question 
was asked, What should one do if the attraction was 
at both ends of the line? Bowery said, remove 
the girl!
The printer must have a grudge against the 
name of Skeehan. Is he a political rival, Jack?
The Civils have begun Structural Design.
Sections A and B are studying Analytical Geom
etry.
The article on Class Spirit in the Plebes col
umn last week was well written and the complaint 
is the same, which every class had during the first 
year.
The class spirit of 1910 in the first year was con
spicuous by its absence, but as the class matured 
those who were not interested in itheir fellow class
mates were not interested in their studies, and 
therefore dropped out of school, and those who re
mained, learned the value of associating with their 
fellows and now there is scarcely a time when a 
meeting is called that a majority of the class is not 
present.
The subject of class spirit is merely to be let 
alone, and as the true worth of each student is man
ifested to the others, the spirit of fellowship is 
strengthened and class organizations are supported.
The fraternity organized by the third year men 
is Theta Beta Psi and not Phi Beta Psi, as printed 
last week. This was an error on some ones part.
What was it that Stamm of 1911 read in last 
weeks issue that caused him so much excitement?
Armstrong can make a touch in such a grace
ful and eloquent manner that he is never refused. 
Teddy has nice ways, alright.
Get your stuff ready for the Thistle.
-------o-------
INDUSTRIALS.
To those fellows who persist in cutting class 
meetingswell, besides the Keeley Cure, theres the 
Water Cure. The foundry is the place.
Werner is with us again, after a long illness. 
Welcome, Deacon.
The ponies have made their appearance down 
Wall street. Ask Jumbo about them.
Capt. Robinson would like to have some more 
fellows out for the basket-ball team Monday, Wed
nesday and Friday, 4 P. M., at Duquesne Garden. 
Manager French has several good teams booked, in
cluding Wilkinsburg and Allegheny High Schools.
Bob Rutledge has left school. We do not know 
what he has in view.
Arrangements for the banquet are progressing 
nicely.
Mullen says, No more hockey for me.
-------o-------
CRUCIBLE CLUB MEETS.
The Crucible Club held their regular bi-monthly 
meeting last Saturday night and as guest of honor 
Mr. Foster Hewitt, a distinguished mining engineer, 
attended. Mr. Hewitt gave a very interesting talk 
which covered points of interest in his career as a 
mining man, and interposed with little words of 
advice along lines of elements he considered vital to 
the success of young men contemplating a mining 
or metallurgical career. He showed specimens of 
vanadium ores and maps of properties from which 
they came and his discourse on the matter of their 
location was of the greatest interest to the members 
present. A delightful collation of cake and fruit 
was served at the close of the regular business. 
Mr. Hewitt was elected as an honorary member of 
the club, to which he responded with a fitting little 
speech. The gathering broke up at 11.30 P. M.
-------o-------
JUNIOR PROM.
Arrangements have been completed to hold the 
Junior Prom, of the Class of 1909 at the Hotel 
Schenley, February 28, 1908. Every 09 member 
should make a desperate effort to attend this one 
big social event of his college course.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of the Carnegie Technical 
Schools, Pittsburg, Pa.
Entered at the Pittsburgh pBstBffice as secBnd class matter,
Editor-in-Chief,
F. E. Foster, '08.
Associate Editors,
R. K. Merrill, 08,
J. H. Taxis, 10, F. I. Gaston, 09
Business Manager,
J. M. Sampson, 08.
Assistant Business Manager,
C. L. Carver (Night).
Circulation Manager,
Jos. Roura, Jr., 10.
Correspondents.
A. F. Stamm (1911, Night).
L. W. Nicols (Plebes).
D. J. Spence, 08 (App. Design).
J. L. Hoffman (1912, Night).
J. C. French (Industrials).
Subscription Rates.
Yearly ...................................!............................. $2.00
Single Copy ........................................................10 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business 
Manager, Care Carnegie Technical Schools.
Willibald Trinks, Regierungs-baufuehrer, Asso
ciate Professor in charge of the Department of 
Mechanical Practice, is a member of the charter 
faculty of these schools. His reputation as an en
gineer prior to his coming to this institution, was 
not unknown, and the record he made successively 
with the Cramp Ship Building Company, The South
wark Foundry Company and The William Todd 
Company, is of such a character that any man might 
well be proud of it. The terrible phrase suffixing 
his name is nothing especially against him, and on 
the contrary it stamps him as a German Engineering 
School graduate, to be exact, a graduate of the cel
ebrated Charlottenburg School, where he was honor 
student of his class. To properly pronounce that 
group of words it requires a mouthful of pebbles, to 
literally translate them they mean State Construct
ive Engineer, and the equivalent American degree 
is M. E.
Prof. Trinks, from his first introduction to Tech 
men, has been popular. His ability to make things 
clear is undisputed and his versatility and ready 
wit in the class room keeps every one awake, an 
accomplishment which may well be cherished by 
any college Professor. He has a pun for every ex
igency and some good old stand-bys, for which 
he makes exigencies. The latter form a sort of 
chronological arrangement and are presented to each
class in its turn at the same period of each succeed
ing year. We learn that the Professor is a few 
weeks behind his schedule time, and that he has 
only recently sprung the stationary engine joke. 
That, ordinarily belongs to the November vintage 
but we believe he will be running right on time by 
April; there were few irregularities last year. To 
ask if he is a shark at slide rule calculation, is to 
ask if a oat likes cream, or a fish swims? He can 
figure out anything on his guessing stick in a sur
prisingly short time and for a student to be without 
one of these instruments in any of Prof. Trinks 
classes is to be seriously handicapped.
The Professor has introduced a system in ex
ams that takes the form of giving the men the ac
tual questions one week before, that they may pre
pare. Hence the few flunks in his classes. He has 
the right idea.
-------o-------
A NEW HOCKEY PROSPECT.
According to the latest advices Western Univer
sity is making a strenuous effort to get a hockey team 
together so that they can play Carnegie Tech. We 
hope that this attempt will be successful, as hockey 
games are almost impossible to get on account of 
the professional games at the Gardens. Gapt. 
Charles feels confident of defeating Wup, but ex
pects to have a hard struggle. The one difficulty 
which Wup seems to have is that all the good hockey 
players are in the engineering departments, and 
the authorities do not sanction teams composed of 
men from one department. We hope the dentists 
and embryo doctors will take the matter up, and 
get a University team together.
-------o-----
RALSTON QUITS SCHOOL.
Foster Ralston, 1912, night, has decided to leave 
school, finding it impossible to meet the require
ments of the curriculum and work during the day. 
His decision will inflict a severe blow to the basket
ball team, for he was easily the star of that con
tingent.
-------o-------
TRACK TEAM.
All candidates for the Track team are requested 
to report in the Assembly Hall FridayDay men at
4 P. M., Night men at 7 P. M.
The Athletic Association has decided to send a 
relay team to the University of Pennsylvania Relay 
Carnival, April 25. This contest will be one of na
tional importance and without a doubt the most im
portant any Tech team has ever competed in. There
fore every Tech man who can, whether he has done 
track work before or not, should report. At the 
above meetings the track coach will be present to 
consult all students interested.
In addition to the Penn meet there will be sev
eral others with local colleges.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN9
PERTINENT |
AND |
IMPERTINENT |
ceceas
C. H. Keefer, 1912 (Night), who seems to have 
been followed by hard luck, has recently met with 
an accident that will keep him out of school for sev
eral weeks. He has recently suffered a cut with an 
axe, nearly severing his foot.
Howard A. Humes, A. D. Kirk, and Joseph Ri
ding, students in the night sciiool, have quit during 
the past week.* * * *
The Electrical Department have received their 
new 90 horse-power motor generator set.
* * * *
The Senior students in the Department of Met
allurgical Practice are contemplating a trip to Bal
timore and the East to inspect the copper, lead 
and zinc industries during spring recess. Prof. 
Crabtree will be in charge.
* * * *
Mr. Dosey, Instructor in Foundry Practice, has 
been chosen as coach of the 1908. base-ball squad. 
He has played professional ball in the Wisconsin 
State League and is a thorough master of all the 
points of the diamond. His personality and six-foottwo of height will preclude any possibility of horse
play which has been a feature of squads at Tech in 
the past, and guessing by the attention and enthusi
asm he is giving to the association at present, he 
will turn out a winning combination.
* * * *
Two Good PositionsConsult Bulletin Board.
He * H *
The Merry Widow waltz will be played at the 
Junior Prom.* * * *
There is yet time to save up for Junior Prom. 
Begin.H> H' *! H*
The faculty dance at the M. M. C. S. will be 
given next Saturday evening.
* * * *
Col. Church, of the Board of Trustees, celebrated 
his fiftieth birthday last week.
He * ? ?
Mr. Walter S. Goodnough, Director of Drawing 
and Manual Training of the Public Schools, City of 
New York, visited the schools last week.
H: * * *
E. Dischner, middle-class apprentice in Plumbing 
Department, is hailed as this years find for the 
base-ball team. He has a reputation as a pitcher 
of no mean ability and will according to reportbe 
able to fill the place left vacant by Wills.
Shuman, The Dry Cleaner, at 3911 Forbes 
St., near Boquet St., cleans everything per
fectly; try him on your next work.
Prof. Hokanson (in Hydraulics)If necessary 
we can now build a hole in the ground.
* * * *
Strenuous effort is being made to secure a cel
ebrated Yale foot-ball man to coach the Tech team 
next year. The Tartan is forbidden to disclose his 
name at this time, but it is a certainty that he has 
the proposition under his careful consideration, and 
in the very near future we will be able to report 
something definite in our columns regarding this 
matter.
Do not be skeptical, this looks like a go!
* * * */
One or two lectures by prominent men will be 
delivered to the student body during February.H: H * *
The Glee Club Concert has been postponed until 
March 10.
* * * *
The Delta Pi Omega Fraternity has taken up 
quarters at No. 70 Dithridge st.* * * *
Prof. Flather and a party of engineering pro
fessors from the University of Minnesota, visited 
the schools last Saturday to inspect the schools 
and gather points for their new engineering build
ing. The party is on a trip to Eastern engineering 
colleges.* * * *
Mr. Connolly, of the schools of Apprentices and 
Journeymen attended the meeting of the Society 
for the Promotion of Industrial Education at Chi
cago last week. It is expected that a member of 
the eastern delegation to that meeting will visit the 
schools on their return.$ * * *
C. Marshall of last years foot-ball squad, who 
sustained a severe wound to his hand at his trade, 
is out of the hospital and was about school last 
week.
*

&
*
Mens Heavy Tan |Oil Grain Bluchers |
$4.00 $5.00 $6.001
STOEBEHERS I
6227 Penn Ave. 
6222 FrankstBwn
*

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
c836C6cec6C8cececececeoec8ceo9^cecececececececBceoecec>ec8ceoecec8ca
o * 1| NINETEEN TWELVE |
^O^'OOOOOOC'OC^^OOC^O.OOC^OCK'iKX^^^OC^v 
John L. Hoffman, Correspondent.
When C-l first met Prof. Hokanson, he deliv
ered a few remarks on success in life and the kind 
of men who attained it. In part he said: You 
cant get anything in this world without work. 
Everything you obtainthat is, everything worth 
havingyou must fight for and then fight to retain. 
Now, some of this stuff which I am to give you this 
year may seem hard, but remember, if you ever ex
pect to be an engineer you must get it. Dont get 
frightened because it looks big to you. Dont run 
off and say, I cant do that, but dig right into it. 
Dont try to take it all down at one bite. Go at it as 
you tackle a piece of pie, when you are having din
ner at your best girls. Chop a little bit off and 
get that, and be sure that you get it all. Dont 
let some o;f it drop on the floor. Then take an
other little, tiny piece and put it away with the first 
bit, and in this way you will get it all. By the time 
you are ready to kiss your best girl good-night, you 
will have all of the pie, and by the time you are 
ready to say good-bye to me next spring you will
know all da materyals..........................................
There are three kinds of boys and young men coming 
here. There are first those who have been around 
the world for a few years and realize that they need 
more education. Second, there are those, a little 
bit younger, who havent been around as much as 
the first kind, but they know they havent got 
enough education and they come here at night be
cause they have to make a living during the day. 
Then, there are the other ones who come here be
cause their mammas and papas say, You must go 
to night school. Those fellows (very contemptuously) we dont want and we wont pay any atten
tion to them because they will soon quit. They will 
get tired coming and their mammas and papas will 
get tired coaxing them.
Has his prediction been verified?
1912 would beg the indulgence of their friend? 
a few moments while they exploit the merits of one 
of their members, J. E. Jackson, B-l, an unwilling 
candidate for a Carnegie Hero Medal. Last Mon
day evening he arrived at school about 30 minutes 
behind time, which, to be sure is not deserving of 
a Hero Medal, but circumstances alter cases, as 
they did in this young mans. Well, to continue 
with our story, it seems that the car on which 
young Jackson was hastening toward school, be
came somewhat refractory and tried skidding over 
the bricks. Now, everyone knows a steel rail is 
the proper place for a car to be running upon, and 
this car (as any car would) come to an abrupt stop, 
incidentally piling the passengers all within three
or four feet of the front door. From out of the 
midst of this badly mixed bunch of terrified hu
manity our young hero, after great difficulty, man
aged to extricate himself and throwing his dainty 
kid gloves to one side and doffing his $90 overcoat, 
promptly pitched in to help the unfortunate motorman replace his car.
When one realizes the present standing of the 
Pittsburgh Railways Company in this city and again 
realizes how Mr. Jackson, in defiance of all public 
opinion, soiled his hands and dirtied his trousers to 
render them even such indirect assistance, will he 
dispute our heros rights to a gold medal and per
haps a cash prize also? (McCreery and I want 
divies on the cash, Jackson.)
Warning
Dont match nickels with Weber in the car going 
home. He is a dangerous man, winning every time. 
For further information see Mr. McCowan, of Sec
tion D.
When approached by the money man last 
week some of the 12 boys exclaimed, Why, I never 
heard of this proposition. When asked if they 
were out at the last class meeting they replied, 
Why, of course not. I didnt even know there was 
one held. When was it?
Moral: Read the Tartan and watch the bulletin
board.
What has become .of the basket-ball proposition? 
With the wealth of good material in our class, there 
is no reason why 12 should not turn out a basket
ball team which will help maintain the good name 
given us by our foot-ball squad.
Wanted
A name, approbrious enough to apply to the fel
low who can but wont contribute to the class fund.
NoteFellows who are not in a position to con
tribute are exempt from this epithet. Note the 
clause, who can but wont.
D-l in Materials
Prof. HokansonWhen steel is subjected to a 
tensile stress great enough the bar lengthens and 
increases in volume.
Werry (the bright chap)It will weigh more, 
too, wont it? Doesnt it get heavier?
Prof. H.Which is the heavier, a pound of gold 
or a pound of feathers?
A womans face is her fortune, remarked 
McCowen.
Id hate to have a mortgage of over two-bits 
on some women, then, replied Weber.
-----------o-----------.
A meeting of members of athletic association 
captains-elect, captains of last years teams, man
agers and assistant managers, is planned for the 
future to discuss conditions with the amusement 
company regarding new athletic field.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
| NINETEEN ELEVEN |
A. F. Stamm, Editor.
What seems to be a peculiar state of affairs is 
the selling of tickets for basket-ball games to the 
night students, and then having the home games on 
Friday nights.
The Pie Squad was dealt a staggering blow 
when E. Litz refused to reopen his baker shop at 
11.10 P. M. in answer to the demands of the hungry 
horde. Notwithstanding the illegal nature of such 
a proceeding a boycott has been declared against 
the self-inflated son of Sauer Kraut, and any one of 
the recent squad caught purchasing pie at said shop 
will be court-martialed and ducked. By order of 
Col. ,Stamm.
The chairman of the 1911 Athletic Committee has 
been approached by a delegation from 1912 with a 
challenge for a game or series of games of basket
ball. It is understood that the challenging team 
state where the games are to take place and as 
soon as they secure a hall in which to play they will 
not find 1911 wanting. The challenge came as an 
awakening from the slumber into which athletic 
affairs of 11 have fallen and shows the great neces
sity for a spurt in this matter. The fault lies large
ly with the editor of this column, as he was given 
instructions to issue a call for candidates both for 
the Varsity and class teams. There is the nucleus 
for a good, fast and experienced team in th follow
ing well-known players: Dave Left, Fre Davis,
Jimmy Williams and Mac McCulley.* While it 
is not a certainty that these men will make the 
team, yet it is quite likely unless they and better 
men signify their intention to try for the team. A 
notice will be posted on the board and basket-ball 
players who can come out to play will hardly sign 
their names with the position they ape most familiar 
with. The inter-class games will of a necessity 
have to be played with but little practice, so there 
will be a great demand on the time of the players.
The banquet of the class of 1911 is scheduled 
for February 20th, 08, at the Nixon Cafe. The in
vitation has been issued to all 1911 men, past and 
present, and a grand reunion of the class is the aim 
of the committee.
An appeal will shortly be made to those who 
can possibly do so, to pay the assessment in ad
vance in order to give the committee a little neces
sary backing.
The list of speakers has not yet been made out. 
Toastmaster Workman, the able debater, will no 
doubt find good men in the class to give assistance 
in the intellectual portion of the evenings entertain
ment. Ex-President Harley and Dr. R. H. Holbrook, 
last years advisor, will be present and will no doubt 
give r few remarks.
I YOUR HEALTH
3 is your greatest asset. Take care of it. Eat  
proper food. Our baked goods produce the o 
right sort of brain and muscle. Try Puiina - 
whole wheat Bread. Ask for it at your 
boarding place.
| HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Block
1 WALLACE OPTICAL CO.
$ Suite 503-505
* Diamond Bank Building PITTSBURG, PA.
$ Eyes tested free. Prescriptions
& promptly filled. All work
 guaranteed.
TMTWwwVMwTwwwwvwTVTyTyTWTVTvvy
Flowers
S The largest stBck Bn hand at all g
 . times is the Bne frBm which tB i
fr select. 
 The prices are reasBnable and k
V cBnsistent with the best quality. V
| A. W. SMITH %
$ 345 SIXTH AVENUE PITTSBURG, PA. j
PENAA**DEAPFAAPDPDPFDFAPEPF*
λ Bell PhBne 1454-R Schenley
I PHOENIX PRINTING CO., INC.
I* 304 Bouquet St., Oakland ^
$ ( ARDS, PROGRAMS, INVITATIONS, 3.
O AND HIGH GRADE STATIONERY $
TwWwTyWyWTTMTywTyT\TyvMTVTyTyTy
V
TvTVTvTV, i^^rVV'vV;^rrVV;^nrvVVV1v^VVTVVvT1v.'*V'
PHILLIPS AND MANNING
Stationers
 Magazines Post Cards
 LOWNEYS BOX CANDIES
3702 Forbes Street 
x Cigars Tobacco
* WANTED.
2 STUDENT WAITERS
V for the
J COMMONS.
DFAAPEPRPFAPKDF8PDPD3NPFPEPFPF3DFPF3

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
NEWS ITEMS.o*o\o*o*ov>\o*o\o\ovov>v>%ov>vo\o\o\
 Northwestern University has decided to give 
University credit for work in athletics, provided the 
work be of such regularity and efficiency that it will 
be equivalent to four hours work in the gymnasium.
v> * * ? *
University of Virginia has been granted a char
ter of Phi Beta Kappa this year, to be called the 
Virginia Beta.$ $ $ $
Chicago University this year expects to pass all 
previous records of enrollment of students. Last 
year 5070 students matriculated.
Purdue, a technical school, has organized a de
bating team and expects to compete with other col
leges on the platform.
1IIII
III
I11I
R. W. Medick
OAKLAND
MEAT MARKET
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
5e&hR & 0E9Lhbl
3804 FORBES ST.
Both Phones.
0IIII
gI*0 
1 I 1
F3FTOWgVWVWVWOWVWVWVWOWVWF3VWVWVWVFW
Intercollegiate foot-ball has been restored at 
Northwestern after a banishment of two years.
A young lady, who often thought out loud, had 
just been shown through a garter factory.
Heavens! she exclaimed, Ninety million pair 
in one year! I dont see where they all go to.
Neither do I, replied the young man, coloring 
slightly.Judge.* * * *
The Sophomore Stunt committee at Cornell of
fered recently a prize of $50 to the member of the 
university handing in on a certain day the sugges
tion why that date was the best for holding the
Sophomore stunt affair. Each suggestion was ac
companied by an article telling why the date was 
the best.
Hi * * *
President James, of Illinois, was elected to the 
presidency of the Illinois State Teachers Associa
tion at the last session in Springfield. He is not 
only the first president of the State University to 
be elected to that position, but the first president of 
any university in the State who has received such 
an honor.
Owing to friction with the student body, the
editor-in-chief, the managing editor and the business
manager of the Daily Nebraskan, the college pub
lication of the University of Nebraska, have resign
ed, and successors to fill their places elected.
H: H* ^ ?
Two fine private libraries, consisting of several 
thousand volumes, have recently been donated to 
Syracuse University. One of these, a collection 
worth $10,000, is probably the best of its kind in the 
country.
? Hi ? ?
One hundred and five students from Central and 
South America are members of the Latin-American 
Club at the University of Pennsylvania.
Freshmen at Pennsylvania are not allowed to 
leave or enter College Hall by the front entrance 
but must use the side or rear doors.
At Wisconsin the various literary societies and 
other debating organizations are up in arms at what 
they think is a tendency on the part of the oratori
cal department to promote the intercollegiate 
debating interests at the expense of the joint local 
contests. They claim that the latter are the oldest 
and most important.
Hi Hi * *
Thirty Sophomores of the Oregon Agricultural 
College were making Robert Olph, a freshman, do 
a few stunts recently, and were in the,act of giving 
him a ducking in the campus fountain when he drew 
a knife and severely cut two of the Sophomores. 
Kelly, one of the second year men, was seriously 
injured, and will be in the hospital for a couple of 
weeks, although he is in no immediate danger. 
Dr. Thomas Kerr, president of the college, has is
sued an order prohibiting hazing. In all probability 
the ringleaders will be suspended.
An inter-class tug-of-war contest is to be held 
at Purdue, the winner receiving a silver cup.
* * * *
The 'women at the University of Indiana will 
have a hockey team this year for the first time.
? ? ? *
Little Miss Muffet 
Sat on a tuffet 
Under the mistletoe.
A big fellow spied her 
And sat down beside her.
And little Miss Muffet said, Oh!
-------B-------
NOTICE.
Orchestra Rehearsal Assembly Room, Friday,
4 P. M. Come.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
January 11 was the 101st anniversary of the 
birth of Ezra Cornell, founder of Cornell University, 
and was celebrated as Founders Day at the Uni
versity.Hi * * *
Prof. F. M. Goss, formerly of Purdue, will be 
installed at Illinois on February 5th as a Dean of 
the College of Engineering and Director of the 
School of Railway Engineering and Administration.^ ^ Hi
A feature of. the Purdue-Northwestern basket
ball game, to take place at Purdue on January 31, 
will be an inter-sorority race in which the sororities 
will be represented by a chosen knight.
* * * *
Association foot-ball in England was responsible 
for six deaths and the disablement of 60 more during 
the first part of the past season, according to an 
article published in the Lancet for November 16. 
It must be remembered that the season in England 
lasts until March. This list did not include those 
hurt at Rugby foot-ball.
A' '!
The University of California will erect one sec
tion of a library building which, when completed, 
will cost $2,500,000. Pneumatic tubes will be used in 
conveying the books from the shelves to the de
livery desk.$ H* $ $
The girls at the University of Washington re
cently took part in a torch-light parade through the 
streets of Seattle. The demonstration resulted from 
the accusation that the students had no college 
spirit.? ? ? ?
A womans suffrage club has been organized at 
Minnesota. Men as well as women are to be admit
ted to membership.Hi Hi * *
Dr. Weatherly, of the faculty of Indiana Univer
sity, recently expressed himself as favoring the 
hazing of freshmen in the colleges.
---------o---------
Prof. Esquerre left the Eye and Ear Hospital last 
Wednesday. We are glad to report his steady im
provement.
James Sampson has left the Mercy Hospital 
and is now recuperating at his home in Erie, Pa. 
He expects to return to school about February 1.
Ex-Professor Mac Lucas has been spending the 
fall and winter at his home at Marion, S. C.
---------o------IThe motto for the class of 1911 has actually been 
chosen. It was decided to use the words Semper 
Fidelis as the motto, but not without some caustic 
reference to the absence of the sentiment expressed 
by them in a large number of the members. The 
meaning of the words is Ever Faithful. It does 
seem a trifle paradoxical when we consider that 13 
is as many as can be induced to attend class meet
ings.
| B & B
| mens fur gloves
0 Shelf-Emptying price Bn every pair.
2 $20.00 Seal Gauntlets, $15.00.0 $10.00 Seal Gauntlets, $8.50.
$ $13.50 Beaver Gauntlets, $10.00.
^ $5.00 Electric Seal Gauntlets, $3.75.
^ $8.50 Seal GlBves;, $6.50.
^ $5-00 Electric Seal GlBves, $3.75.
^ $4-50 BrBBk Mink GlBves, $2.50.
 2THHE A 2RNB
All good students are photographed by
AAAAAAAATeVblAAAAAAAAA
FBr Class and Fraternity GrBups.
WE SAYYBu can't get them as gBBd at any price. Students invited tB inspect Bur wBrk.
O. C. HENRY
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.
(Our prices nB higher than yBu pay fBr inferiBr wBrk.)
Jamieson Sisters*
PHOTOGRAPHS
ARE WELL KNOWN BY PROMINENT PITTSBURGHERS
Wallace Blk. Center & Highland Aves.
A DOWN-TO-DATE MASSAGE
enhances the joy of victory
Lessens the sting of defeat
THE TECH SHOP
Cor. Craig and Forbes Streets 
H. F. Van Curen, Prop.
Our MottoDont WorrySmilel
GOOD THINGS TO EAT
AT THE PURE FOOD STORES OF
GEO. K. STEVENSON & CO.
Siyth Avenue 
DBwn TBwn
Highland and Center
^XoD ^M
Hardware and House-furnishing 
Goods
Scarborough & Klauss
3809 FIFTH AVENUE
Bell 117-R Schenley Open Evenings
DR. E. S. McNEVIN
DENTIST
CHARLES BUILDING 
N. E. Cor. Forbes and Craig Sts. Pittsburg, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
THE BURGLAR AND THE SAFE-MAKER.
In the September, 1906, issue an editorial under 
the above caption appeared, dilating on the struggle 
that is constantly going on between the burglar and 
the safe-maker. In view of the statements then 
made, the following letter on safe-blowing from 
Consul Thomas H. Norton, Chemnitz, Germany, is 
of considerable interest to safe makers and users:
The confidence of German manufacturers of 
safes in the resistance of their wares against ordi
nary safe-blowing operations has been rudely shaken 
by the recent achievements of a single unaided 
robber in Dresden and other cities. The details of 
his last operation are as follows: A room was se
cured in a hotel, which was situated immediately 
above the office of a money changer. At night a 
hole was pierced in the ceiling of this office. By 
the use of a drill and saw a circular piece of the 
flooring was easily raised. Beneath lay a thick 
layer of cement. A small orifice was made in this 
and an umbrella shoved down into the space below. 
The umbrella was attached firmly from above, and 
when opened received without noise all the frag
ments of cement which were dislodged as the hole 
was enlarged so as to allow of the easy passage of a 
person. By means of a rope ladder the descent was 
readily made into the office below. Curtains were 
drawn, and with heavy blankets a tent was con
structed around the safe, so thick that no ray of 
light could pass through. Next the robber brought 
down two cylinders of compressed oxygen and an 
acetyline generator charged with calcium carbide 
and water. With these he was able to produce a 
blowpipe flame of such intensity that steel fuses in 
it like lead in an ordinary gas jet. It required but 
a brief space of time to melt away so much of the 
door that all the contents of the safe were accessi
ble. They were carried to the room above. At an 
early hour the robber left his lodgings and disap
peared without trace.
The suggestions of the Consul for means to foil 
the efforts of the safe-cracking gentry are also of 
considerable interest:
It is evident from this experience that the build
ers of safes must provide for new contingencies in 
their constructions. The simple, light, acetylene 
generators, now in wide-spread use, and the equally 
simple oxygen generators, charged with water and 
sodium peroxide, or the heavier cylinders of com
pressed oxygen, place at the service of the intelli
gent crook the possibilities of opening the strongest 
safes in existence rapidly and noiselessly, provided 
the operator can be screened from observation.
Some large safes are so disposed that they are 
through windows. Usually this observation is con
fined to the doors of bank vaults or the like, although 
in the case of the globular safes it practically ex
tends to all exposed sides. In the greater majority 
of cases existing safes would offer next to no diffi
culty to a skillful cracksman if able to work without 
being seen. It is evident that owners will be forced
GAS AND ELECTRIC PORTABLE LAMPS
Oakland Hardware Co,
3606 Forbes Avenue
 Made Especially for You  (Students)
HSQEQQUBIQ PNTPPBiIQE
ROB R. WINGERT & CO.
SOEE DISTRIBUTORS 
Collins Avenue and Broad Street, East End
AFTER THE THEATRE
Dont forget to stop at
HOTEL ST. CLAIR
We have the finest equipped I^adies and Gents Dining Room in E. E. Our specialties are Club Sandwiches anti all kinds of Sea Food, for Banquet and Theatre Parties.
Phones 4070 Highland 9056 Highland
Schenley Farms
FIFTH AVE. BELLEFIELD AVE.
FINE RESIDENCE PROPERTY
For prices and t rms apply
ROOM 1411 FARMERS BANK BUILDING
IB. w. 1P.Lud1e
CUT FLOWERS
HOLLY WREATHS DECORATIVE GREENS
PICTURE FRAMING 
114 Atwood St. Bet. 5th and Forbes
SIRES JAPAN OIL
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting
JAMES B. SIPE & CO.
Allegheny, Pa.
THE S. R. SMYTHE CO.,
PITTSBURGH, PA.,
Engineers and Contractors,
Rolling Mills, Steel Works,
Glass Works, Gas Producer
Plants, for Fuel and Power.
SANKEY BROS,
All Grades of RED BRICK
Office2112 CARSON STREET 
Both Phones. S. S., PITTSBURG
James Hay John F. ProvanPresident Manager
THE HAY PLUMBING CO.
Plumbing and Sanitary Engineers
Bell Phone 1910 Highland P. & A. Phone 971 East
5621 Penn Ave., Pittsburg, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
under frequent observation by watchmen looking 
henceforth to adopt such measures as will reduce 
to a minimum all possibilities of access to free
standing, movable safes, or the hidden sides of safes, 
embedded in cement or masonry.
Manufacturers of safes will, on the contrary, be 
impelled to fight the scientific burglar with his 
own weapons. In somewhat the same fashion by 
which time-locks prevent the opening of the lock 
of a safe during certain hours, it will be compara
tively easy to introduce into safe construction chemico-mechanical devices which, during a limited time, 
would render it either fatal or physically impossible 
to remain in the vicinity of a safe or vault, were>the 
walls or doors tampered with to such an extent as 
to allow access to the interior. By the use of a very 
simple form of apparatus containing potassium 
cyanide and sulphuric acid, a robber would expose 
himself to the deadly fumes of prussic acid.
Less dangerous, through possibilities of accident 
to those regularly using a safe, would be the em
ployment of substances crippling a safe-blower or 
forcing him to an instantaneous retreat. The vola
tilization of a few drops of etyl-dichlor-acetate would 
cause such profuse and persistent weeping that one 
in the neighborhood would be temporarily blinded 
if he persisted in remaining. The breaking of a 
tube of liquid ammonia would render immediate 
withdrawal impertive under peril of suffocation. 
Several similar compounds are at the service of 
constructors. Eventually the daring burglar, with 
sufficient scientific training, might venture to face 
the unknown dangers of a safe well provided with 
more or less effective neutralizing agents for the 
concealed possibilities of defense; but certainly for 
some time, at slight expense, effective protection 
can be devised against the attack of the scientific 
cracksman with his portable oxy-acetylene blowpipe.
Some of the measures suggested would be more 
dangerous to safe users than common prudence 
would permit, and as for all it is scarcely necessary 
for us to say that the ingenuity displayed by safebreakers would probably enable them to readily over
come everyone of the obstacles suggested, for the 
Consul has practically admitted it, already.Ma
chinery.
BASE-BALL TRIP.
Manager Colmery of the Base-Ball Association 
is throwing his characteristic vigor into his new 
charge and has already negotiations pending for an 
extended Eastern trip. Lehigh, U. of P., State, 
Swarthmore, and Dickinson are in his itinerary and 
prospects appear bright for successful maturing of 
his plans. As a result of the tardiness in making 
up the schedule incident to the chaotic state of the 
athletic affairs at Tech, it has been, and will be 
only by hard managerial work that the schedule 
can be brought to a successful issue. Bert has 
the confidence of Tech men.
I STUDENTS))) ------------------------
>I> ACCOUNTS
M receive careful
0 attention at the
1 OAKLAND I SAVINGS  AND I TRUST CO.
jI> $200,000.00 CAPITAL 
$126,000.00 SURPLUS
jy> Iroquois Block
Julian, Kennedy
Gn^ineerpittsbur|
S. DIESCHER & SONS
CONSULTING ENGINEERS
Iron & Steel Works, Rolling Mills, Manufacturing 
Plants and Engineering Structures 
Farmers Bank Bldg. Pittsburg, Pa.
Schlieper Engineering Co.
Engineers and Contractors 
705-707 WABASH building Pittsburg, Pa.
Bell Phone 1057 Court
FOR EXPERTS Engineers, Architects, 
DraughtsmenExperts or Students
Should get acquainted with the resources of supply for all Drawingand Artists Materials offered by this house
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
6o6 Wood St., 6th Ave.
W. S. BROWN
BASKET BALL
Balls, Goals, Shoes, Sweaters, all Athletic Goods and 
Fine Cutlery, Fire Arms, Ammunition and Sports
mans Outfits. Best Goods at Lowest Prices
523 Wood St. Pittsburg, Pa.
Murdoch-Kerr Co.
Printers and Publishers
Ample Facilities, Large Experience,
Satisfactory Service.
STRAWBERRY & CHERRY WAYS

---------------------------------------------------

16THE T \ RTAN
O%0X0%O*OXOXO\0*0XD\O%ON0VO%OXO*.OVOVCAO%:OXO;\OXO%:O'*O\O%0X0%O\0\.O\0XCAO\O%O\O\
9REAT SHIRT SALE
3 DAYS ONLYFRIDAY, SATURDAY, MONDAY
Choice of our Entire Stock Fancy Shirts Worth 
$1.00, $1.50 and $2.00
ONLY 83c EACH
OR $4.75 A HALF DOZEN
Our entire stock placed on Center Tables for 
this sale. Unreserved, unlimited choice of our en
tire stcck, except White Dress Shirts. Dont miss 
this Shirt Sale, the greatest Shirt bargains ever of
fered. Sizes 14 to M/2.
Oc&L
^ im ii I I I ii Iiiip p u
37I4 FORBES ST,OAKLAND. PITTSBURG.
WVWVWVWXWV.*FV.RFWiWoWVWFWoWVWiWoWoWVWVWVWiWiWliWVWiWVWVtV*iBVWoWiWiWiWliWiWoW
oxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxI
*g*X&*$g0g*s
$0
0
Give us a trial. We guarantee satisfaction. *
* IOpposite Carnegie Music Hall (Allegheny).
8
TO STUDENTS OF
CARNEGIE TECH SCHOOLS
We are headquarters for Banquets and parties 
on North Side. Hotel Orchestra every eve 
from 6 to 11.30 oclock.
HOTEL KNICKERBOCKER
JOHN HUPERT, Manager.
JERRY HAGENAH, Proprietor
Bell 2350 Cedar P. & A. 238 North 
\0\0x0\0\0x0\0x0x0x0x0x0x0\0x0x0x0\0
0X0\0*0\0\0\0\0X0\0X0X0\0X0X0X0X0\0X
*
8
8
HAVE YOU TRIED A  RED DWARF  INK PENCIL ?
It Beats the Fountain Pen.
0 It is a Pen-Cil Pen, which is made Bf materials unaffectedby acids, uses Brdinary, cBpying, indellible. Br Higgins0 WaterprBBf Ink always ready fBr first strBke and does ..  not leak Br ink fingers. Teachers, students, clerks, try 0 0 it fBr marking papers, taking nBtes, ruling, sketching, X manifBldingeverything. Beware Bf cheaper pencils O imitatiBns. TwB sizes. Price $2.50 by mail Br at Bffice. X
Special price to Clubs of 12 or more. 
S. O. SINGER, Selling Agent. 
Wholesale and Retail,
339 Fifth Avenue, PITTSBURG, PA.
*ov>\o\o\o\ov>\ov:>\o\o\o\o*o*o*o*o:*o.
0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X
ANY SUIT 
IN STOCK
now815.00
S40, $30, $30, $25, $20 STOCK
I HASTINGS & VOIGT
Open Evenings
Phone 1939 Hiland.6121 Penn Ave.
0*
$0*
88
$0*0I
I
*
8X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0oxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxoxox
HAND TURNED
COLLARS
STEVENSON & FORBES STREETS
80I880*
8
10*Bell Phone 2943 GrantP.&A.Phone 148 Main ^
X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0X0
