VOL. I!, No. 13PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, JAN. 30, 1907PRICE FIVE CENTS
PLEBES HOLD BANQUET.SECOND ANNUAL CONCERT.HOCKEY.
Juniors Attempt to Steal Speakers.
The best example of class rivalry 
which has been seen this year was 
shown last Friday night in the at
tempt made by a small coterie of 
Juniors (dubbed by themselves The 
Ku-Klux-Clan) to kidnap the speakers 
of the evening at the Plebe banquet. 
The well matured plans of the kid
nappers were frustrated in their at
tempt to steal the 1909 President early in the evening, and as strategy 
could not now be resorted to they saw 
success only through the agency of 
numbers, so as many of the Juniors 
as could be found were turned to ser
vice.
At 6 oclock on the night in question 
a large touring car, after laboring its 
way through a blinding snow-storm, 
with its burden of Ku-Kluxers, arrived 
at the door of the Plebe leaders house. 
Three of the clansmen alighted, went 
to the door and called for their ex
pected victim. He came out in due 
time but upon seeing a Juniors face 
started back for the dining room 
in the rear, only to be nabbed just as 
he reached the door. The struggle 
began. Exline called for his room
mate, who was soon on the scene and 
got into the melee. He fought gamely 
but was subdued and in the excite
ment was dragged out to the machine, 
the kidnappers thinking he was Ex
line, but Ex had slipped away from 
his single opponent and ran into the 
sacred precincts of the kitchen. A 
consultation was held by the upper 
classmen and it was determined that 
it would be folly to charge the Cooks 
retreat without a brace of pistols and a bowie knife; so attention was now 
turned to the captive. It was decided 
to release him, partly because he was 
the wrong man and partly because he 
had an able champion in the person 
of a golden haired young lady who 
threatened dire things if he were not
(Continued on page 2.)
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs of the 
Technical Schools will give their sec
ond annual concert at the Carnegie 
Music Hall on Friday evening, February 1st, at 8.15 oclock.
An excellent program has been prepared under the leadership of Mr. 
Wm. MacD. Dorrington, for the Glee 
Club, and Mr. Schoedlemeyer, for the 
Mandolin Club, and the occasion 
promises to be a most interesting one, 
judging from the reports of the preparation the men have made. Rehear
sals have been held three times a week during the fall up to the present 
time in order to give the men that de
gree of confidence which is so essential for such a musical production and is so lax at times in college clubs.
There are many novel features in 
the program which show that their 
enthusiasm has carried them beyond 
the limit of the usual college glees, 
among them the quartette from the 
Orchestra will appear. This is the in
itial appearance of the Orchestra in 
public and a cordial welcome is awaiting them. Last year the Glee Club 
was ably assisted by Mr. Paul Reinecke, who was the soloist. He will 
be missed this year, as he has lately 
received the appointment to the West 
Point Military Academy for this year 
and has been compelled to devote all 
his time to his studies in preparation 
for the examinations. He has been 
replaced this year by Mr. Laithe, who 
has proven in every sense, a find. 
Mr. Lathe is well known among Pittsburgers for his work in various church 
choirs in the city and his fine baritone 
solo will add strength to the Club. 
Mr. E. M. George, the tenor, will also 
render a solo.
A word should be said here about 
the difficulties with which the musical 
organizations have to contend. Mem
bers of the club belong to both day 
and night classes, and in view of the 
demands upon their time outside of 
the class-room, it was hard at the out
set to get good attendance at the re(Continued on page 3.)
There is quite a bit of ill-feeling in 
the student body, especially amongst 
the night men, on account of a sup
posed injustice on the part of Capt. 
Charles of the Hockey Team. Some 
two weeks ago an effort was made by 
a good-sized delegation of fellows from 
both day and night departments, to 
have the editor write and publish an 
article in The Tartan relative to the 
rotten methods, as tney expressed 
it, which are being carried on in this 
branch of sport. Realizing that the 
school paper was not an instrument 
to salve, neither was it an organ to say hard and untrue things, in other 
words, knock, he hesitated and said 
he would look into the matter.Every point of criticism has been 
investigated. Capt. Charles has been 
interviewed and the statements he has made have been looked up with a view 
to substantiating them, and as near 
as is possible for an outsider to find 
out, everything in the Hockey Associ
ation is being run strictly square.
The night men contend that Capt. 
Charles refuses to tell them when 
practice is to be held. It has been found that the Garden management 
rarely notify us more than a day ahead 
when he may practice his team, and 
then the time is set for the noon 
hour. All can readily see that it 
would be difficult for night students 
to attend at that time. Besides only 
a limited number are allowed to prac
tice by the Garden management, so 
practically the Captains hands are tied.
Charles makes the suggestion that 
all hockey candidates pay 60 cents 
each and hire the Garden for a hockey 
session, viz., 6.45 to 7.45 P. M., and 
then give outsiders a chance to judge 
the men.
The editor will gladly permit any 
one to read the defense of his policy 
that Charles has written and given to The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Hotel Schenley
Estimates 
Given 
for 
School 
and 
Club 
Dinners.
R. PL MEDIC K ,
 OAKLAND
Meat Market
CHOICE HOME DRESSED 
Meats & Poultry 
EBSH ODANQU UTL
Both Phones.
Bell Phone 1939 Highland
.CUTRKYU J uDRYTn
Hatters and Furnishers
ioro stee Cmteptn QL QL
OPEN EVENINGS.
142 Park-BOTH PHONES-142 Schenley
Scarborough & Klauss,
HARDWARE and HOUSE 
FURNISHING GOODS..
Mixed Paints, Glass, Cement, Sewer Pipe 
Furnaces, Tin Soofing and Jot Work promptly done
Improved Midget Gas Furnaces 
EBSa OROT. CuQKlQL
PLEBES HOLD BANQUET.
(Continued from page 1.)
released. Leaving two sentinels, the 
big machine pulled away on its quest 
for Juniors. Eight upper classmen 
were soon found and dispatched on 
the run to the aid of the two besieg
ers and those in the machine started 
for the house of victim No. 2. After a 
weary, cold wait, the marked one ap
peared. He was not kidnapped. Back 
cityward went the undaunted Klux
ers for victim No. 3. Just left for 
New York, was the answer of the hotel clerk.
Dr. Brashear and Col. Church were 
notified by phone that the banquet had 
been postponed, so now three of the 
six speakers were sure to be absent, 
and attention was turned to Exline 
again. By this time about fully sixteen 
Plebes from the dormitories had been 
notified and were holding a heated 
meeting in the hall of their presidents 
house, and the Juniors scattered their 
forces, posting pickets at every possible point of egress.
It was not long before a rush was 
made by the under classmen and, al
though there was very little mixing, 
the Juniors scrutinized every Plebe to make sure he was not Exline. Exline 
did not appear. About 9.30 an auto
mobile drew up in front of the ad
joining house, this action looked sus
picious to the Juniors, but the chaffeur assured them that he was merely 
calling for a couple of girls. Two men 
were ordered to watch the machine, 
however, and sure enough, it was not 
long before two young ladies tripped 
lightly down the stairs and entered 
the auto. They were subjected to 
close scrutiny but were allowed to 
pass. This was fatal to the Juniors, 
for one of the supposed girls was Ex
line. The bird had flown, the upper 
classmen were outwitted.
The brains behind this strategic 
move had been no other than the 
fair one spoken of in the early part 
of this article. Ex arrayed in one 
of her gowns, a long coat and a jaunty 
hat with flowing veil, had crawled 
through a back window, thus reaching 
a porch, then through the window 
of the-adjoining house out of the front 
door into the waiting machine and off 
to the banquet. About 10 P. M. Col. 
Church was notified of the trick 
played on him and started immediately 
for the banquet. Dr. Brashear could 
not attend at this hour, and was 
greatly displeased at the ruse. Col. 
Church commented during his speech 
upon the spirit of rivalry, and said it 
was a fine factor in school life.
Now that all is over both classes 
may clasp hands and say we have 
forged one more link in the chain of 
school spirit, and if there are those in 
either class who feel distressed, that 
this thing occurred, let him ask him
self if it is not these good-natured lit
tle clashes that makes college life in
teresting.
Bell Phone 292 J Schenley
M. H. JONES
Maker of
GENTLEMENS FINE
GARMENTS
LATEST Styles. Prices Extremely Low 
121 OAKLAND AYE.
.. . SHIRTS ...
k MI,htc
to give every young man one of ours to 
wear. Our Shirt Sale makes it easy.
McCANDLESS & GORDON CO.
310 IDia.m.coa.d. St.
ALL TEXT BOOKS USED IN 
CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS.
SUPPLIED BY
R. S. Davis & Co. 
441 WOOD STREET
Drawing Instruments, T Squares, 
Triangles, &c.
Telephones : j Bell 29'57-j Highland 
TECH SPECIALTIES AT
THE HOLMES COMPANY 
BOOKMEN, STATIONERS, ENGRAVERS,
6016 PENN AVE., E. E., PITTSBURGH.
BOTH PHONES 2097
The Edward E. Rieck Co.
SELECT 
CREAMERY PRODUCTS 
MILK CREAM
and ICE CREAM
Cor. Forbes and Stevenson Streets 
PITTSBURG, PA.
NOTICE TO JUNIORS.
Verbatim notes on Industrial Eco
nomics lectures may be had upon ap
plication to Business Manager of Tar
tan.

---------------------------------------------------

PLE PBSPBH
P LEBS HOD A NEQU ETTODQ.C RRRRRRRRRRR
|j More than two thousand Oakland people have their accounts here and receive every accommodation consistent with safe banking.
I 0^-^:X^^2>riD S.^i.'TT'UfcTQ-S ^VHnTXD H3TJST CO.
[|J Capital, - - $-300,000.00 Surplus, - $126 700 00g 2 PER CENT. ON CHECKING ACCOUNTS.4 PER CENT. ON SAVINGS ACCOUNTS
Atwood Pharmacy
J. T. McFADDEN, Prop. 
Cor. Forbes Ave. & Atwood St.
Bell 9080 Schenley 
P. & A. 166 Park
LIBERTY301 CRAIG ST.
Hockey and Gymnasium Shoes
ATGraeser & Crowleys
Iroquois Block
Open till 
9.00 P. M.
 . . 3613 
Forbes Street
BUSINESS IMPROVING !so
WEVE ANOTHER CHAIR!
at
The TECH Barber Shop
Cor. Craig and -Forbes Sts.
H. F. VAN CUREN
SECOND ANNUAL CONCERT.
(Continued from page 1.)
hearsals, which have to be held often 
late in the evening in view of the night schedule for the second year men, 
which does not close until 10.30.
The tact shown by ^xr. Dorrington in holding the interest of the men and 
and in arranging rehearsals which 
were satisfactory to the majority, 
has been rewarded by strong student support.
The membership of the Club has in
creased materially since last year, having at present 32 members of the 
Glee Club, 16 of the Mandolin and Guitar Clubs, in addition to a quar
tette from the Orchestra. The names 
announced here as follows:
Glee ClubE. M. George, R. J. Rodg
ers, J. J. Miller, R. W. Thomas, Walter 
Close, R. H. Armstrong, W. W. Slo
cum, C. J. Robling, A. W. Rinehart, Jr., D. V. Newcomer, M. M. Steen, N. 
C. Applegate, F. E. Neudorfer, H. M. 
Laithe, P. S. Reinecke, A. L. Summers, A. S. McCloy, C. A. Moore, T. G. Rodg
ers, H. K. Krause, J. W. Considine, 
J. E. Fitzpatrick, Robert Parsons, W. 
Y. Cocken.
Mandolin ClubW. H. Conrad, J. 
M. Drum, F. Apple, F. W. Rensland, 
J. H. Taxis, L. J. Schaedle, E. L. Schu
macher, Benj. Valentine, J. M. Drum,
F. L. Koethen, W. G. Imhoff, M. H. 
Steen, Price Kenton.
Orchestra QuartetteA. R. Render, 
M. M. Steen, V. C. Thurston, W. W. 
Rinehart.The schools are very fortunate in 
numbering among its friends the 
names given below of those who have 
consented to set as patronesses of the 
occasion:
PatronessesMesdames W. Trinks, 
J. H. Leete, A. H. Willetts, Fred Crab
tree, E. P. Knox, J. H. James, S. S. McCormick, James Steven Martin, W. 
C. Hamilton, A. A. Hammerschlag, S. 
H. Church, Wm. McConway, W. N. 
Frew, J. A. Brashear, C. L. Taylor, W. 
H. Stevenson, A. J. Wurts, G. W. Guthrie, H. K. Porter, Jos. Buffington, 
Horace Dravo, D. L. Gillespie, T. H. 
Childs, Jas. McCrea, P. J. Eaton, A. E. 
Hopkins, J. W. Beatty, Taylor Alderdice, J. W. Herron, J. E. Moore, John 
Scully, Wilson Shaw, J. J. Vandergrift, Warrington Warwick, C. C. Mellor, N. 
C. Miller, L. A. Osborne, J. H. Reed, 
C. C. Scaife, William Moorhead, J. 
Hartley Anderson, D. W. Stewart, H. 
Hornbostel, W. E. Gibbon, S. S. Kel
ler, C. E. Follows, John Caldwell, W.
G. Carr, Alexander Dempster.Misses Chalfant, Cassidy, Smith,
West, Harding.
Qe/feL
2 ni 11 I I I 11 p il > m
3714 FORBES ST.OAKLANDPITTSBURG.
UsQbRCg uCglQU
INWinter Underwear
5 STYLES, 5 WEIGHTS at 
&S btec k YkIWten d
FoLSS C UlRT
Advance Styles Spring Shirts Arriving.
THE DEBATING SOCIETY.
At the regular meeting of the De
bating Society held on January 24, in 
room 101:
The Debate: Resolve.d, That Pres
ident Roosevelt should accept the nomination to succeed himself, provided 
the people so desire, was won by 
the negative. The judges finding nine points in favor of the affirmative and 
ten points in favor of the negative 
sides. After the debate there was a general discussion upon the question 
by - the members of the society.Mr. Ketter then gave an interesting 
account of the Pioneer Tech Club.
The Society unanimously adopted 
the recommendations of Mr. Wagner 
in regard ta changing the name of 
the society to a more distinctive and 
appropriate one, partitioning the fac
ulty for a more desirable place in 
which to hold its meetings, and sev
eral other measures which will be of 
benefit to the society in the future.The program for the next meeting, 
Jan. 31, will be an address by Mr. Wagner upon The Art of Debating.------o-----
ECONOMICS.
Prof.Do you believe in taxing 
breweries?StudentYes, to .their utmost ca
pacity.Harvard Lampoon.
Prof. Willett (when he heard sing
ing in the hall)That Plebe evi
dently hasnt been weaned.
Comment of a small boy living next 
to Tech Dormitory: I wish you would 
ask Rosenfeld not to study so much 
mamma points at him as an example.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Official Student Organ Carnegie Technical School
F. E. Foster, 08.............Editor-in-Chief
R. K. Merrill, 08... .Associate Editor
J. H. Taxis, 10............Associate EditorJ. M. Sampson, 08. .Business Manager
H. P. Fowler, 08..Asst Business Mgr 
CORRESPONDENTS.
Jean Herron.............M. M. C. S. (Day)
Edith Clark...........M. M. C. S. (Night)
J. S. Charles. . .Applied Science (Day) A. F. Stamm. .Applied Science (Night) 
A. G. Lamont, 09..........Applied Design
Subscription Rates
Yearly.............................................$1.00
Single Copy..............................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates address the 
Business Manager, care Carnegie 
Technical School.
SCHOOL NOTES.
Gus Kann has accepted a position 
in the mechanical department of a 
large Ohio steel plant.
Dutch Hammer is working on the 
open-hearth at the Jones & Laughlin 
Co.
Rod Chester is working at the Car
negie steel works.
Mme. Darlu, of the University of 
Edinburgh, visitel the school last 
week. She has been sent to this coun
try to study educational institutions. 
She remarked that C. T. S. was doing 
wonderfully for its age.
There is an interesting article in 
this months Independent on Car
negie Tech.
The Metallurgical Department has 
received some large microscopes, and 
an apparatus for making microscopic 
photographs.
Ex-Mayor Wm. Doyle, of Akron, O., 
visited the schools on Monday.
The Millinery Class at the M. M. C. 
S., opened last week with 22 mem
bers.
The Pittsburg Leader says: Higher 
education is beginning to take a firm 
hold on the pupils of the Tech school. 
While they have not yet begun to tie 
each other to railroad tracks, they 
are making rapid progress in other 
advanced studies.
The Pittsburg Dispatch printed an 
article on the 26th relaive to the for
mation of a Carnegie University, 
which will vie with the Rockefeller 
institution. Mr. Carnegie says he has 
not been informed, of the Western ef
fort to send his name resounding down 
the halls of fame. An early effort to acquaint the ironmaster of his new 
honors will doubtless De made. The 
capitalization is not made public, nor 
is the matter of endowment. The 
site has not yet been chosen, nor have 
several other minor details been ad
justed. It is reported that these will
not be finally decided upon until such 
time as Mr. Carnegie expresses himself on the scheme.
The Sigma Tau Fraternity enter
tained the members of the foot-ball team, together with Profs. Kellar and 
Follows, and Mr. Bear. Prof. Follows 
gave a very interesting speech on 
Friendship.
Suggestions are in order regarding 
what the form of entertainment should 
be for Mr. and Mrs. Carnegie in April. 
The student body should consider this matter seriously.
The Mechanical Engineering division 
begin this week to determine the ten
sile strength of materials under high 
temperatures. The electric furnace 
will be used. So far as is known, this 
is the first investigation of its kind 
attempted by a Technical school.
A new cement testing machine for 
compression and tension was received 
last week.
The following is a letter written by 
Mr. Carnegie to jthe Dumfershire 
Press on the occasion of one R. C. 
writing a poem last month called Me 
and Andra. This genuine working 
man (R. C.) drew a comparison be
tween the modes of living of Mr. Car
negie, as a millionaire, and himseir as 
a poor man, and said: An theres nae 
great differ, Andra, hardly ony.
The Tartan thinks it worth while 
to publish Mr. Carnegies letter:
The Cottage, Dungeness, 
Fernandina, Fla., Feb. 16, 1906. Dear Sir:
Please tell R. C. that I have great
ly enjoyed his verses. He is both 
philosopher and poet, but he cannot 
know, as I do, how trifling are the ad
vantages of wealth. He has to imag
ine one side. I have lived both, and 
have learned that
If happiness has not its seat 
And center in the breast,
We maybe wise, or rich, or great, 
But never can be blessed. 
Beyond a competence for old age, and 
that need not be great, and may be very small, wealth lessens rather than 
increases human happiness. Million
aires who laugh are rare. This is just 
as it should be, and R. C. has done 
a bit of good work (better than most 
sermons) in putting a great truth so 
vividly before us.
I hope he has more of such ore to smelt. Yours truly,
ANDREW CARNEGIE. .-------o------
NEW BOOKS.
Impersonation.By Exline.
An Abstruse Treatise on the Boytryoidal Segregation of Igneous Rocks 
in the Mesozoic Period.Prof. Crab
tree.
Hot-Air Engines.Watrous.
Breweries and Their Product. 
The writer lays stress on the last.
H. W. Peebles.
The representative of the 1911 night 
class has been approached by quite a 
few of his classmates with such quer
ies as the following: What is the
matter with The Tartan? We are not 
getting any space. In reply to this 
and other questions of like nature the simple remark that no one gives him 
any help, and that as he is not ac
quainted with everybody in the class 
he cant abuse the same circle of men 
with poor jokes in the personal col
umns all the time. Now, if 1911 
wishes to see her glory treated in the columns of The Tartan, let her do 
something worth writing up.
In his turn let the correspondent 
have something to write about. If 
the social committee were to get busy, 
or if we but heard an echo from the 
athletic committee a promise is ex
tended that due notice and comment 
will appear in The Tartan. With the 
foregoing as a prelude, let all the 
members of the Class of 1911 turn out 
at the class meeting scheduled for the 
first Wednesday in Febiuary. Should 
the presence of the English class pre
vent the holding of this meeting, a 
special meeting will be called for the 
following Monday evening.
A few of the things which are to 
come up include the amending of the 
constitution to meet the changed conditions concerning time of meeting; 
the election or choosing of a moderator 
following Dr. Holbrooks inability to 
serve; a long belated message of 
thanks to the mandolin club; the se
lection of a motto for our class; sug
gestions to the social committee; ap
pointing of committees for investi
gating prolonged absences and illness; 
and a host of other things which can 
not be done without a quorum.
An appeal will be made to each in
dividual by the faithful, and an honest 
representative gathering of 1911 men 
earnestly desired. Let the same not 
go unheeded.---------o---------
INVENTORS SOCIETY.
On Tuesday, January 22, the In
ventors Society held a meeting for 
the purpose of adopting their consti
tution. The committee in charge of 
the preparation of the constitution 
consisted of Messrs. Follows, Neudorfer and Wallace, with Neudorfer as 
chairman. The constitution was 
adopted practically as it read with a 
few minor changes. ' Its chief points 
are in regard to election of officers, 
term of office, and membership, which 
last it was decided to make honorary 
after graduation of the members. The 
constitution provided that meetings 
should be held at least once every 
three weeks at the will of the Vice 
President, who was also charged with 
the formation of programs. The 
meeting also heard reports from Prof. 
Trinks about technical magazine sub
scriptions, and some plans for work 
in the new building.

---------------------------------------------------

I
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON,
CUSTOM
FITTING
SHOES 
$5.00 - $4.00 - $3.50
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVES. 
East End.
a RESULT
-----OF------
QGsQAT AQUQCAb.
The Connell-Hughes Water Purifier 
and* Aerator The water from this 
apparatus has been proven absolutely 
pure, and is most palatable.
Partial list of installations: 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
Union Trust Co.
Mellons National Bank.
The Liberty Restaurant.
McKennans Pharmacy, 431 Market st. 
Friebing's Drug Store, 1500 Lincoln 
avenue.
Porters Drug Store, N. Highland ave
nue.
Walkers Drug Store, Sewickley. 
Hustons Confectionary Store, Bry
ant street.
Show Rooms, 509 Wood street.
THE TARTAN
LADY-LIKE GEOMETRY.
1. A straight line is the shortest distance between two millinery openings.
2. A straight line is determined by two bargain tables, it is considered as 
prolonged both ways until the store closes.
3. A broken line is a series of suc
cessive straight lines described by a 
woman alighting from a street car.
4. A mixed line is a line composing 
the reception committee of a clubs presidential committee.
5. A plain figure is one all points 
of which have been neglected by the dress-maker.
6. Figures of the same shape dont 
always have the same style.
7. Figures of the same size never 
consider themselves equivalent.
8. Women equal to the same thing 
are not always equal to each other.
Chicago Record-Herald.
----------o----------
ARCHITECTURE.
About ten of the fellows spent a 
very pleasant evening at the home of 
Mr. Carlysle, Perrysville avenue, where they rendered an impromptu 
program.
Messrs. McGoodwin and Lamont are wondering where they can secure an 
artistic head of hair.
We very much regret that we were 
too practical to give Director nammerslag any information about the 
illusive qualities of acoustic con
struction, but it is too much of a hit 
or miss game.
We notice that Reggie has been en
deavoring to secure some information 
concerningwell, we all know.
We beg to warn the fair sex against 
the hypnotical ' personal magnetism 
of Mr. Gerrard.
5
FOR EXPERTSEngineers, Architects, Draughts
menExperts or Students . . .
Should get acquainted with 
the resources of supply for 
all Drawing and Artists Ma
terials offered by this house
KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ,
606 Wood St., 6th Ave.
D.v UQQ .QKA4n
For Your Photographs 
Work Unexcelled
O. C. HENRY 
Studio, 321 Fifth Ave. - Pittsburg, Pa.
Special Discounts to Students
A LITTLE KICK.
Now that the foot-ball squad has 
their brass buttons and plaid Cs, the Freshmen base-ball team their numer
als and the Plebes, who played on 
their class team has been permitted 
to sport the numerals of their class, it 
would in proper spirit for the Athletic Committee to take a long, lingering 
look over the horizon and see if there 
are not one or two other deserving 
mortals who would be overjoyed to have a recognition of their services 
to the school. We refer to those stu
dents who came out for the foot-ball 
team, who did not make good, or at 
least as good as others, and who, notwithstanding all this, kept right on 
practicing with the Varsity as though 
they were going to play in every game. 
It seems to us that these persons 
should be awarded numerals, at least, if it is a question of right, as much as was given to the Plebe foot-ball 
team. How about it?
WHEN YOU HAVE 
A SOCIAL GATHERING
Let us send you the Ice 
Cream and Cakes. Weve 
been making these for 
over thirty years, and 
know how. We feel 
sure that what you buy 
of us will please you. . . 
Therefore we say
-----Come to-----
- HALLERS -
Iroquois Block 3618 Forbes Ave.
Kaerchers Drug Store
COR. FORBES AND CRAIG STREETS
Sclienley 1456 and 9018-J 303 Park

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
Fraternity Pins, Class Pins, Badges, Prize Cups, Fine Tools-'
HEEREN BROS. & CO. MANUFACTURING JEWELERS and SILVERSMITHS,,,HEEREN BUILDING. PENN A VE. & 8 TH ST-,,,
Pt kIt 1t |kjtIc wy 1t bkIetf,t Tth1L Uh1wws,ecL
THE SLIDE RULEWITH EXERCISES FOR BEGINNERS.
TANGENTS AND COTANGENTS. The lower scale of the reversed slide, 
marked T, gives the tangents of angles from 6 to 45. The ends of the T scale are made to coincide with the D scale, then any tangent is found 
opposite its angle in degrees. If the angle exceeds 45 the tangent is found by the trigonometric relation tan x= 1tan (90-x), which is easily solved 
on the slide rule. These directions are briefly given by the diagram of 
Fig. 16.
T I set (900 .r) I under 1T | set 1 | under angle .r
D | to 1 | find tan x (o. 1 to 1.o) D | over 1 | find tan x (1.0 to 10.)
[From 6 to 450] [From 450 to S40]
Fig. 16. TANGENTS OF ANGLES.
, the tangent can be found quite exactFor example, tan
the sine can be used instead of the
When the angle exceeds about 84. ly from the reciprocal of the sine.
1
88-------------= 28.7 very nearly.sin 22
If the angle is less than about 6 
tangent without error exceeding one part in four hundred, which is within the limits of accuracy of the slide rule.
The cotangent is the reciprocal of the tangent: it is also equal to the 
tangent of the complementary angle. Hence the cotangent from 6 to 84 
can be found as shown in Fig. 17. When the angle exceeds 84 the 
cotangent equals the sine of the complement. For example cot 87 equals 
the sine 3. If the angle is less than 6 the cotangent equals the reciprocal of the sine, very nearly.
iSet * over 1 
(From 6
under 1 
f find cot x 
to45)
T I Set 1 I under (90o-^r) 
D I to 1 I find cot x
(From 45 to 84)
45 tan 2 27 10' 
21 sin 42 55'= .833
RunnerI set RunnerA I to Runner
Set I II Set 420 CC' I 
270 io' I Iset 21
find 833 I 
over 45 I
Fig. 18. SOLUTION OF PROBLEM.
LOGARITHMS OF NUMBERS. The middle scale on the back of the 
slide gives the logarithms of numbers from 1 to 10. (mantissa only, the 
characteristic to be found by inspection). . The method of reading the 
logarithm is to set the left end of the slide to the given number on the 
D scale, turn the scale over (without disturbing the slide) and read the 
mantissa from the mark on the right end of the scale.
A II A. .
BB
log x(Rear)
C set 11 cD I to 4:1 D
BELLEFI ELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH,
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues.
Rev. Daniel Russell, D.D., Pastor.
Sunday Services:
9.45 a. m.Young Mens Bible Class, 
conducted by W. H. Stevenson.
11.00 a. m.Preaching8.00 p. m. 
Students of Carnegie Technical School 
welcome at all services.
10 to 20 PER CENT OFF
Drawing Instruments, Triangles, 
Scales, Slide Rules, T Squares 
and Architects Supplies.
Koh-I-Noor Pencils, Erasers, Thumb Tacks.
Fig. 19. Cotangents of Angles.
In working out expressions containing trigonometric functions, it is often 
necessary to turn the slide over during the operation and finish on the 
reverse side. As an illustration
E.B.Connell.D.J.Spence,
AGENTS FOR
Kurts, Langbein P Schwartz.
FACULTY NOTICE.
In this case the square of tan 27 10' is divided by sin 42 55'. Keeping 
the runner at the result, the slide is reversed and the result divided by 21 
and multiplied by 45, giving the final result stated above. The diagram 
for this operation is shown in Fig. 18. The letters A, B, C, D indicate 
where the slide was turned over.
The following rule adopted by the 
Faculty goes into effect February 1, 
1907: 
A student is expected to be pres
ent at all scheduled exercises.
A student who is irregular in at
tendance will be warned by the Reg
istrar, and four unexcused absences 
incurred after that time warning 
(during the same term) will drop him 
from his class.
STUDENT RATING.
A period of work shall be defined 
as one hour of recitation, demonstra
tion or lecture, or two hours of labor
atory or shop practice. Students will 
be divided into five groups with ref
erence to their rating:
1. HPassed with Honor.
2. CPassed with Credit.
3. PPassed.
4. FFailed.
5. LLow.

---------------------------------------------------

VOL V.IV.!7
HOME 
of the 
6193OPENVIGP9SE 
.424 
2ark-aB
TRACTION RINK '
WHERE THE COLLEGE BOYS GO 
T1,I30ywpI1 keV stee CmteptL 
ORKQUT Q$lRssQ5 ARK9 RK T.Q UTCTQ
All Car Lines.
POLO GAMES
EVERY
MONDAY
AND
FRIDAY
EVENINGS.
EIMER & AMEND
205-211 Third Avenue, New York
Manufacturers and Importers of
Chemicals, Chemical Apparatus,
PHYSICAL APPARATUS, 
SCIENTIFIC INSTRUMENTS.
Everything Needed in the Laboratory.
Fig. 19. Logarithms of Numbers.
Expressions involving fractional exponents usually require the logarithm 
of the number. While the slide rule is not specially intended for such calcu
lations, yet they can be done easily enough. As an example, take the expression
.35
2.37 = 1.352The method of calculation is shown by the diagramof Fig. 20.
A IB I
I Turn overTurn over
I and read 
I I EZH&C I Set I I on middle
D I over 237 | -scale
SetIunder 35 |
I over 3745 I find 131 
Fig. rS. SOLUTION OF PROBLEM
and set |131 j under 9 to end 
marki______I find 1352 I
The result of the above, calculated by four-place logarithms is 1.353, 
showing considerable accuracy for the slide rule. With larger numbers, 
having characteristics, the slide rule would give less accurate results.
EXERCISE 11.
(1) sin 350 =d& ZE(9) 27 Sin 15 45r
sin 490
(2) sin 8 25' =.146( 10) 109 cos 67 30'
(3) cos 700 to' -= 0EEasin 26 20/
(4) ta E& =.701(11) 309 j/ sin 50 =
(5) tan 65 =2.14( 12 ) 271 sec 50 =
(6) sec 350 =1.22( 13) 3.1 tan 56
1.7 tan 420
(7) cosec 40 =1.56(14) 371 tan 63
289 sin 410
(8) cot 40 =1.19(15) 12.8 
-  a0Zr
= 93-9 
= 91.12
= 423
= 3-
= 7-56 
5-375
Notes on Exercise 11. (3) same as sin 19 50'. (6) same as 1 -4- cos 35
or 1 -esin 55. (7) same as 1-4-sin 40.. (10) instead of cos 67 30' in the
numerator, use sin 22 30'. (11) Multiply 309 on D scale by square root
of 5 taken directly from sine scale by runner. (15) Find log 128, prefix 
characteristic, 1, multiply by .66, then find number corresponding to this
logarithm. Time of working this exercise by the slide rule is---------minutes
(Conclusion.)
PERSONALS.
Heard in debateQuestion, Resolved, That President Roosevelt 
should accept nomination for welfare 
of American people.RiegerI dont think President 
Roosenfeldt ought to run again, there 
are plenty just as good men; Frick 
or Carnegie, say.
Rudolph (in his address)Well, as everything has been said Ill sit down. 
(Makes dash for chair.)
Facts About Some of the Boys and 
Profs.
Name. Favorite Stunt.G. Hamnet ......................................Poker
Jim Sampson.....................Automobiling
F. Miller ........................................Cutting
Fowler.............To get name in Tartan
Weick .............................................Fussing
Jamieson ....................................Matching
Peebles ...................................... .................Mr. Pfouts.................Borrowing matches
Mr. Lowe.....................Handing out Zips
Mr. Wagner.Monopolizing Plebe s time
Little Clifford froze his radiator,
What will papa think?
When he gets wise he will say,Son, hereafter use the kitchen sink.
Prof. ThayerFerguson, Mr. Hokansons desk is right in front of 
where he usually sits.
First Maggie Murphy girlDid 
you ever notice that all the janitors 
are Irish?Second M. M. girlWhy, the very 
idea! When did you get that notion?
First M. M-. girlWell, one day I 
heard that big fat Mr. Schneider talk
ing Irish to them.
In Physics lecture to JuniorsEn
ter, Sivitz (Slamming the door.)Mr. LoweMy, but you make a lot 
of noise for a little fellow.
SivitzWhats the matter? Did I 
wake anybody?
Who threw the electric light globe 
at the Transport? Occupants thought 
they were about to be assassinated. 
---------o---------
Miss West gave her first lecture on 
Food Values to the night cooking 
class, Monday, Jan. 21. Th girls anticipate much benefit from this addi
tion to the course. With Mr. Sharps 
practical work in cooking and now 
Miss Wests interesting talks, it will 
be surprising if the girls are not all 
married before next year. Unless, of 
course, any have embraced a career.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
HOCKEY SHOES
NONE BETTER 
WE FIT THEM RIGHTiGeo. H. Stoebeneri
6227 PENN AVENUE 
6222 FRANKSTOWN AVENUE
AGENT . . .
NEWARK SKATE
THE BEST MADE
Bl5JBISISiBISIBJBJH5I515JHI5I5J5l515I5J5Jciii5J5JBJ5J5EJ5]BJBi@_ i HJ J .15i 2..iri33ISI3M3I3ISI3ISMllM3ISI33J5ISMI3JBlSJSJ3JSI3JSJ3J5l3J3J3I3I3J
M. M. C. S.
One morning last week a group of 
girls were standing on the corner mer
rily chatting while they waited for 
their car. In the course of human 
events (as is the way on a school 
morning) it appeared and the girl was 
scarcely on when All aboard for Car
negie Tech, the place where you get your larnin at, came from the con
ductor. This was greeted by every 
one in the car with broad smiles and 
laughing comments, which was all the 
encouragement the man needed. The 
remainder of the trip uptown was in
terspersed ivith like pearls of wit 
and wisdom. Five cents takes you 
all to Carnegie Tech, have fares 
ready, please. This last bit of news 
brought peals of laughter from all on 
board. Soon they were informed Eat tenderloin steak, thats what 
keeps you warm. Pride street. 
The passengers by this time were 
prepared for anything and were eager
ly listening for the next choice bit of 
information. The car stopped again 
with the conductor shouting some foot
ball signals, 485697 in a husky 
voice.
The car was nearing Schenley 
Park. The man had evidently ex
hausted his news and was leaning 
limply against the rear door of the car. 
Suddenly regaining his good spirits he 
shouted Schenley Park, Tech School, 
into the ears of the girls as they were 
leaving the car. Looking back they 
saw this most interesting man gazing 
with longing eyes after them and sad
ly singing Alice, where art thou go
ing.
The question is where were the 
Misses Arrowsmith, Munson and Merriam Tuesday evening?
Too bad Prof. Sampson had to teach Tuesday evening. Some were disap
pointed.
On Tuesday night of last week the 
night class of the M. M. C. S. and 
their friends spent the evening at the 
East End Auditoriumroller skating. 
A large number of the classes were 
present and had a jolly good time. The 
Tech yell and Mr. Whites hat attract
ed considerable attention.
Ask Mr. Westbrook and Mr. Weick 
if they enjoyed the skating party.
It takes Smith, Means, Clark and 
Roman to show their colors. I won
der where they got their yell.
Miss Smith, President of the night 
classes, on account of a severe cold, 
was not able to preside at the class 
meeting last Monday evening, but dele
gated Miss Sharon to act in her stead. 
A new wrinkle in parliamentary law.
Overheard at the skating partyI 
thought Mr. Tingley and Mr. Watrous 
were coming. Miss, I suppose 
Mr. Watrous has a political deal on 
hand and Mr. Tingley would rather 
stay at home and enjoy his pipe. Both too busy to attend.
Miss Stribling is afraid the girls of 
M. M. C. S. will be old maids before 
they finish their cooking aprons. 
Some of the wise ones said, Dont worry.
During Xmas holidays Miss Marks 
of M. M. C. S. day school, gave a class 
social for the B division. The young 
ladies who attended had a very pleas
ant time.
Mathieu El ecbric Co.,
Electrical Construction, Repair Work 
and Supplies of Every Description 
6010 CENTER AVENUE
E. E., PITTSBURG, PA.
Bell Phone Highland 172
GOOD THINGS TO EA.T
AT THE PURE FOOD STORES OF
Geo. K. Stevenson & Co.
Sixth Avenue Highland and Center
Down Town ,.NV ,!o
rfs Described ina rpc?/? / 
ec fur&.
