A Change in Dining Pace: Brendans and Upstairs at Brendan 's
Drive-in Academy Award Nominations See Diversions ^ 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------%\\ -
The Tartan%
Volume 81, Issue 19_______ Carnegie Mellon University March 10,1987
photo by Andy Gillespie 11
CMU to Broadway: The brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon captured overall honors with their 
performance of Berlin to Broadway at Greek Sing Friday night See the Greek Sing supplement
Student Aid Loses $5.5 Billion in 
Reagans Proposed 1988 Budget
Student Senate 
Freezes Student 
Union Funds
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter
Senator Dave Levy proposed a motion at the March 3 Senate 
Meeting to suspend funding for The Student Union, on 
grounds that the Union had violated copyright laws in the 
February 25 issue. The Union photocopied an article from The 
New York Times on the ABM Treaty and published it. Legal 
action in the form of a copyright infringement suit could be 
brought against the Union by The Times. Senator Allen 
Greenburg then proposed an amendment to the motion that 
The Tartan funding also be suspended, on grounds that legal 
actions could be taken against the paper by ATQ, over a story 
in the February 17 issue concerning an alleged rape. He added 
that last semester Senate removed The Tartan as "the official 
student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University" and The 
Tartan has been printing this in every issue. Tartan news 
editor Drue Miller pointed out that The Tartan is no longer in 
danger of legal ramifications from ATQ, and the paper has 
removed the "official student newspaper" from the front page, 
although it still appears in the staff box. Senator Dave Lewis 
added that the first amendment was not relevant to the motion 
proposed. The amendment to the motion failed.
Part two of the motion, concerning the possibility of a libel 
suit from the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette in regards to an 
interview with SEIU workers in the same issue, was dropped. 
Senator Andrew Robitshek proposed to add that The Student 
Union has been distributed on University of Pittsburgh's 
campus although the Union is funded by Carnegie Mellon 
activity fees. Greenberg claimed that this could not be 
substantiated and this was also dropped.
Greenberg then motioned to table the issue until members of 
the Union could attend the meeting of the discussion. Senator 
Levy pointed out that there were three other instances in 
which the Union broke copyright laws and funds should be 
suspended before more issues of the Union could be printed. 
The motion to table the issue failed. The final vote was in 
favor of suspending The Student Union's funding 13 to 8.
Senator Greenberg again proposed to suspend the Tartan's 
funding because of the printing of "the official student 
newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University." He again 
mentioned the legal ramifications surrounding the ATO 
incident. Senator Lewis explained that once a retraction is 
printed, no legal actions can be taken. Another Senator added 
that ATQ was satisfied with the retraction and legal actions 
would not be taken even if that was not the case. The motion 
failed. Senator John Maxwell then asked that the staff box in 
The Tartan be re-worded to conform to Senate's ruling. Miller 
agreed to this.
Also during the meeting, the Health Awareness Board which 
prints out the For A Healthier U newsletters was given non
funded recognition with special event funding. A friendly 
amendment was accepted, requiring them to appear before 
Senate for funding next fall if their funds aren't included in 
Student's Affairs' budget. The student-operated club was given 
$1,116 for printing and publication.
Editor's note: On Sunday, representatives of The Student 
Union appeared before Senate's Funding and Recognition 
Committee, to secure funds for the Fall '87 semester. They 
were allocated approximately $8000. Tamal Mukherjee, 
Chairman of the Committee, said the money remaining in 
their spring budget (about $3000 or $4000) will remain 
frozen until they produce evidence to the Senate that no legal 
action will be taken by The New York Times. Rollie Wesen, 
a member of The Student Union, said they intend to go before 
Senate at tonight's meeting. Petitions circulated on campus 
Friday and Monday to have The Union's funds reinstated have 
gathered at least 700 signatures, according to Wesen.
WASHINGTON, D.C. (NSNS)  President Reagan's 
proposed budget for fiscal year 1988 would reduce 
allocations for the Department of Education from $19.5 
billion to $14 billion, with most of the cuts coming from 
a 46 percent slash in student aid funding. Programs 
designed to aid students from lowand middle-income 
families would bear the brunt of the proposed cuts, while a 
controversial income-contingent loan program would be 
dramatically increased.
The proposal, which has drawn criticism from key 
education officials, also calls for the rescinding of student 
aid budgets already approved for fiscal 1987. Opponents of 
the budget request say the cuts would negate several major 
points in the reauthorized Higher Education Act, which was 
passed by Congress and signed by the president last fall. 
The programs facing cuts, and their consequent effect on 
students, are as follows:
Pell Grants: designed by Sen. Claiborne Pell (D-RI) to 
assist financially independent students. The proposal would 
drop over a million students from the program by limiting 
eligibility to students with family incomes of under 
$20,000 per year. Also, the 30 percent ceiling on 
application validated by the Department of Education would 
be removed, significantly increasing the time needed to 
process loans. Primary effects: reduces aid to middleincome students.
Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants 
(SEOG): provides funds to colleges and universities to 
assist their students with documented need. The proposal 
would eliminate the program entirely, affecting an 
estimated 720,000 students. Primary effects: reduces aid to 
low-income students.
College Work-Study: enables students to work onand off-campus to defray the costs of their education. This 
program also faces complete elimination, meaning the loss 
of an estimated 787,000 jobs for students. Primary effects: 
reduces aid to lowand middle-income students.
National Direct Student Loans (NDSL): 
provides 90 percent of funding (institutions provide ten
percent) for student loans at a government-subsidized five 
percent interest rate. Also marked for elimination, affecting
continued on page 6
Mediator Called In, Contract Talks Continue
By SANDY MYERS
Tartan Staffwriter 
The university and the Local 29 union members met to 
discuss a contract settlement last Friday, March 6. No 
agreement has been made as yet, but the two parties have 
called in a mediator and have scheduled another meeting for 
March 19. Tbe 130 Physical Plant and Dining Service 
employees affected by these proceedings are currently 
working under their former contract and the Union still has 
made no demands for a deadline. Lisa Wiedman, 
spokesperson for the university, said that she is "cautiously 
optimistic" that a settlement will soon be reached.
MEMS Professor Wm. 
Philbrook Dies
By DARNES C. TAVERAS
Tartan Staffwriter
William Philbrook, Emeritus professor of Metallurgical 
Engineering and Material Sciences, died of pneumonia on 
Sunday, March 1. He was 73 years old.
Philbrook began teaching at Carnegie Mellon in 1945, 
and in 1981, he retired from teaching. His research included 
thermodynamics and kinetics of iron and steel making 
processes. He authored or co-authored over 90 technical 
articles.
Carnegie Mellon had intended to award Philbrook an 
honorary doctorate during May commencement this year.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanMarch 10, 1987
MVf/MMet
Ferry Accident 
Claims 51 Lives
The governments of Britain and Belgium 
are conducting separate investigations into 
Fridays ferry boat accident off the Belgian 
coast, which left at least 51 people dead. The 
ships owners say there are plans to dig a 
trench in the seabed where the capsized ship 
is resting, to keep it from drifting. Eightyfour people remain unaccounted for.
Reagan's Speech 
Made Little Change
President Reagans speech to America on 
the Iran arms affair apparently didnt do much 
to turn public opinion around. According to 
a Gallup poll taken for Newsweek magazine, 
25% of those surveyed said the speech 
increased their confidence in the President, 
25% said it decreased their confidence, and 
49% said it had no effect.
Gorbachev Seeks 
Missile Reduction in 
Europe
President Mitterand was briefed by a top 
Soviet arms negotiator on Moscows latest 
proposal for removing medium-range 
missiles from Europe. The French 
government has been split over the proposal, 
with Mitterand and Premier Jacques Chirac
supporting it. Frances Defense Minister 
calls the proposal a Soviet bluff.
Reagan Plans 
Weapons Sale to 
Saudis
Saudi Arabian military forces could soon 
be updating their weapons with equipment 
purchased from the U.S. A Defense 
Department spokesman says the Reagan 
Administration plans to sell $400 million in 
military equipment to the Middle East 
country.
Prisoners Riot Over 
Food
State authorities in Arizona have emptied 
an area of the state prison in Douglas, 
following a riot that injured three 
employees. Officials say the rioting 
prisoners destroyed a guard office and a mail 
room, and set fires in three of the units four 
dormitories. A corrections department 
spokesman says the trouble started over 
complaints about the food.
Carter Faces 
Expulsion for 
Apartheid Protests
Amy Carter, who's already facing possible 
expulsion for anti-apartheid protests at 
Brown University in Rhode Island, had other
problems to consider, like how to pay for 
$305 in parking tickets plus a $30 Denver 
boot fee, towing and storage charges. 
Carters car was booted last month and is 
still in storage. Meanwhile, a decision is 
expected tomorrow on action against Carter 
and 19 other students for their protests.
Illegal Votes Cast in 
Chicago
As many as 52 thousand illegal votes may 
have been cast in Chicagos mayoral 
primary, according to the Chicago Tribune, 
but the paper says thats not enough to 
change the outcome of the election. The 
paper says a routine post-election canvass
revealed thousands of duplicate and improper 
registrations.
Boston Steps Up 
AIDS Education
Department heads in the city of Boston 
will start training sessions this week to help 
them understand the disease AIDS. Boston 
Mayor Raymond Flynn has implemented a 
city policy that bars discrimination against 
employees who have AIDS or are members 
of high-risk groups.
Meti ngacni oTTeoc 
hs dre Liihvyodew
Campus Briefsfrom the National Student News Service
Coeducation Protest
Students at all-female Wheaton College (MA) are mobilizing to oppose a preliminary board 
of trustees decision to admit male students beginning in the fall of 1988. The boards 
decision, made in response to declining enrollment at the 152-year-old college, was 
announced to students and faculty upon their return from winter break and has been met with 
strong opposition. Students have organized a series of sign-carrying protests, hung banners 
from dorms proclaiming better dead than coed, set up a hotline and planned with faculty to 
hold a teach-in on the issue. A student group, S.O.S. (Save Our School), has been formed to 
defeat the proposal and has begun a letter-writing campaign toward that end. Student leaders 
maintain that the student body and many alumni overwhelmingly oppose the decision, on 
which the board will cast a final vote in May.
Hungerthon Winners Announced
The National Association for Campus Activities announced winners of the 1986 
Hungerthon contest at a Feb. 15 conference. The Hungerthon, which honors creative campus 
anti-hunger programs, was co-sponsored by NACA, USA for Africa/Hands Across America 
and the National Student Campaign Against Hunger. Prizes included a trip to Africa, NACA 
memberships, workshop scholarships and original paintings by artist Denny Dent. This 
years winners are:
 1st Place: Texas Christian University, which raised $19,000 during its Fifth Annual Hunger 
Week in November. Among fund-raising events was a jail in the student center, from
'AaaQQinass ota? am
in
Eg 0QG] Eiriironrafl
Sunday, March 15 
5:00 pm
DMib
Admission: $3.00 
Featuring:
. W&M
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1987The TartanPage 3
Campus Briefs
which students and administrators were released for ransom.
2nd Place: Loyola University (IL), which raised over $27,000 during its 13th Annual 
Hunger Week. Events included fasts, a balloon launch, a Chicago Bears ticket auction, and 
Hoops for Hunger, a basketball free throw contest.
Finalists: Texas Womens University, which held a dance marathon and lip-synching 
contest and raised over $2600 and 3000 cans of food; Southern Methodist University (TX), 
which collected funds and cans for admission to the basketball team's season opener; and 
Yale University, which raised $18,342 in a campus-wide fast and hosted the World Food Day 
teleconference October 15. The events cosponsors are now getting plans under way for 
Hungerthon 87.
Virginia Tech SGA Wins Transportation Push
The Virginia Tech Student Government Association has made considerable headway in its 
attempt to provide Sunday transportation for students who depend on the bus system. Last 
fall, the SGA helped convince the town of Blacksburg to repeal blue laws forbidding 
businesses to open on Sunday. This month, an SGA address to the board of directors of the 
Blacksburg Transit System convinced officials to begin an eight-week trial period of Sunday 
bus hours. Encouraged by a high rider turnout, the SGA is now working toward making the 
change permanent.
Campus Race Relations
A poll conducted for Newsweek on Campus by the Gallup Organization found that 56% of 
the nations college students describe campus race relations as friendly but not close. Twentyseven percent felt that relations were close and harmonious, and four percent said they were 
aloof and hostile. The poll, released Feb. 16, was conducted on 100 campuses nationwide.
More than 500 outraged students and school officials formed a human chain around the quad 
at Tufts University Feb. 19 to protest an apparently racially-motivated attack on a student 
activist two nights earlier and the harrassment of marchers protesting the attack the next 
night. Ian Kremer, a white 19-year-old who has written articles on campus racism for the 
student paper, was chased through campus by a group of men slightly after midnight yelling 
nigger lover, Jew boy and pinko at him. The assailants, who Kremer believes were 
students, caught him by the chapel wall and beat him with a blunt instrument. During the 
next nights solidarity march against racism, demonstrators were menaced by white males in 
a pickup truck and a car, who at one point got out of their vehicles and engaged the marchers 
in a shouting match. No injuries were reported, and no charges have yet been filed in either 
incident.
A study released Feb. 6 at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst found that black 
students there are angry over the schools handling of an Oct. 27 racial incident and frustrated 
over what they consider a decline in the quality of their campus life. One white student has 
been suspended for his part in a post-World Series brawl in which nearly 1,000 students took
part. One black student was hospitalized in the clash, which the report says was prompted by 
racial antagonism, particularly on the part of white members of the football team. University 
officials were also blamed for mishandling security in the incident and for noncooperation 
during the subsequent probe.
Sexual Harassment
Charleen ONeill Davis, a former law student at the Detroit College of Law, won her 
reinstatement and an undisclosed financial award earlier this month in a settlement of her 
sexual-harassment suit against the school. Ms. Davis, in a 1979 suit, claimed she had been 
dismissed from the college after refusing the sexual advances of a faculty member. She later 
dropped those charges when the college readmitted her, and both parties agreed to keep the 
matter confidential. In a second suit, however, Ms. Davis claimed the school had broken the 
agreement, and that she was harassed and dismissed again as a consequence. College officials 
have denied the charges.
Divestment Rally
The end of a two-week hunger strike by three chaplains at Brandeis University (MA) on 
Feb. 15 drew an estimated 240 students and faculty to a rally in support of the clergymens 
actions. Rabbi Albert Axelrad said he and his fellow chaplains undertook the strike as a 
symbolic act of atonement for the schools continued refusal to divest more than $1 million 
in stocks in companies doing business in South Africa. University officials have declined to 
issue a statement or take any action regarding the protest.
Soviet Protest
Students at Yale University erected a symbolic Soviet Gulag in front of the administration 
building Feb. 15. The structure, made of wood and wire and containing tombstones 
symbolizing victims of Soviet oppression, was built by a group known as the Committee 
for Freedom to coincide with the broadcast of ABCs controversial miniseries, Amerika. 
The gulag stands less than 100 feet from a shanty built last spring to symbolize conditions 
of apartheid in South Africa, where some corporations in which Yale owns stock do 
business.
Student Associations Block Student Fee Increase
A combined effort by the California State Student Association and the University of 
California Student Association last month averted an attempt by both university systems to 
impose emergency student surcharges to compensate for budget cuts in all state agencies. 
Lobbyists for the two student associations took their case to Gov. George Deukmejians 
office, arguing that the fees violated a California law requiring an advance notice of ten 
months for such action. The governor, who had imposed the budget cuts, approved a lowered 
cutback for the systems to circumvent the proposed fee.
LfV/ 2Huuo
E/A A A
To Benefit:
M.S.Karin Johnson 
Asthma Fund 
Childrens Hospital
Why a Pole Sit?
Why Not?
Between April 4th and 11th we will sit on top of a 30-foot pole near the cut next to Skibo. We would appreciate any support the campus community can give us as we reach for our goal of $20,000 for the three worthy charities. We will be visiting donors looking for sponsors for our 168 straight 
hours on the pole. Thank you to everyone who has donated and will donate.
WE NEED YOUR HELP TO ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS:
 Who will build the paper airplane which cana) fly the farthest?b) fly for the longest time?
 What "non-dangerous" objects will be gravity tested from the pole? suggestions encouraged!
 What faculty, administration, and students willa) sit on top of the pole?b) get a pie in the face? suggestions encouraged!

---------------------------------------------------

Juniors, Seniors & Grads...GIVE YOURSELFSOME CRONI!
APPLY NOW FOR YOUR VERY OWN 
 Bring a photocopy of
your School I.D.
 No cosigner required 
APPLY NOW ON CAMPUS!
Date: March 11,12,13 
Time: 9:00am-5:00pm 
Place: Skibo Grey MattercrriBAN<oi Wan Scx.trDm*.' V  *rs.* Cihoo-r 1906
Six Professors Honored with Research Funding
PITTSBURGHSix Carnegie Mellon 
University professors have received the 
National Science Foundation's (NSF) 
Presidential Young Investigators Award for 
1987.
Winners are Michael M. Domach, assistant 
professor, chemical engineering; James M. 
Howe, assistant professor, metallurgical 
engineering and materials science; Mary Lou 
Maher, assistant professor, civil engineering; 
Rob A. Rutenbar, assistant professor, 
electrical and computer engineering; 
Mahadev Satyanarayanan, asst, professor, 
computer science; and Daniel Sleator, 
assistant professor, computer science.
The awards, which fund research by faculty 
members early in their careers, are intended 
to help universities attract and retain 
outstanding young Ph.Ds in engineering and 
science who might otherwise pursue careers 
in the business world. Each awardee will 
receive research funding up to $100,000 a 
year for five years through a combination of 
federal grants and matching private funds.
Carnegie Mellon's Presidential Young 
Investigators are among 200 engineers and 
scientists chosen by the NSF this year. 20 
Carnegie Mellon faculty have received NSF 
awards since they were first offered 4 years 
ago.
Junior Design Major Wins ASTM Competition
Timothy Stadterman, a junior in industrial 
design at Carnegie Mellon University, has 
won first place in a competition sponsored 
by the American Society for Testing and 
Materials (ASTM) to design a medal for 
ASTM's new fracture mechanics award.
There were 17 designs entered in the 
competition, which was open to members of 
Carnegie Mellon's Industrial Design Studio
II class. This course is taught by Jim Lesko, 
an associate professor and owner of Lesko 
Design, Inc., in Pittsburgh.
Stadterman, who is from Pittsburgh, 
received his first-place prize of $500 from 
ASTM representatives J.L. Swedlow, a 
mechanical engineering professor at Carnegie 
Mellon, and John Barstow of USX.
Second-place winner in the competition 
was Karoline Choi, Wellington, New
Zealand. Two students tied for third place: 
Donna Kavulich, Scranton, Pa., and Dave 
Preskar, Pittsburgh.
The Institute of Business Designers, 
incorporated in 1969, is an internationallyrecognized organization, dedicated to 
representing professional interior designers 
whose major emphasis is commercial and 
institutional interiors.
mbTHE PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
Have you sent back your Senate Teacher Survey?
All it takes is five minutes tc 
fill it out and two seconds to 
drop into campus mail.
You only hurt yourself by not
returning it.

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1987The TartanPage 5
Large 2 Item Pizza
I 622-7000
Expires 3/17/87
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2992
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh......................................................... . 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory. 
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
4523 Centre Avenue, Oakland 
Sun - Thurs 11 am -1 am 
Fri-Sat 11 am-2am
Starts Friday the 13th at a specially selected theatre near you.
Crime and Incident Report
2/27 5:13 pm CRIMINAL
MISCHIEF Fraternity parking lot: 
perpetrators tried to remove a boot from a 
grey Mazda with a saw.
2/28 1:51 am SUSPICIOUS
PERSON Wean Hall: White male, 57" 
told victim he ran out of gas, asked for 
$5. She gave him spare change and he 
left
3/1 12:30 am CRIMINAL
MISCHIEF MG: Passer-by reported 
seeing fluorescent light tubes, screen, 
cushion and remains of shopping cart 
thrown out of E-tower window.
3/1 12:54 pm UNAUTHORIZED
PERSON Gym: 3 non-CMU people 
tried to get in.
3/1 7:16 pm THEFT Doherty Hall:
Macintosh BOOK external drive removed.
3/2 8:20 am CRIMINAL
MISCHIEF MM lot: Right front vent 
window broken on Audi 4000s.
3/3 2:06 am SIMPLE ASSAULT
Student hit by egg from passing car on 
More wood. Car described as dark blue 
hatchback, Nissan or Toyota.
3/3 1:21 pm THEFT Gym: wallet
removed from unlocked locker.
3/3 5:00 pm SUSPICIOUS
PERSON 'Schlag: 2 black males, 16-17 
years old, on 3rd floor asking for Bill or 
John.
3/4 1:15 am SUSPICIOUS
PERSON Mudge: Non-CMU male
acting suspicious.
3/4 8:08 am BURGLARY Wean:
small glass window on office door 
removed, HD20 disk drive, Sony tape 
player and earphones taken from office.
3/4 6:21 pm BURGLARY LAE: 10- 
speed grey metallic Pueh bike and 26" 
Ram mountain bike removed.
3/4 8:34 pm MAINTAINENCE MG:
Student in C-tower, 7th floor, called to 
report that 3x5 section of ceiling had 
fallen in hallway.
3/5 1:58 am SPECIAL MMCH:
Student stuck in elevator between 1st 
floor and basement
3/5 9:00 am Hearing held against Troy 
Robinson, accused in the Fall '86 
stabbing incident at a AY party. Plea 
bargain was entered, and Robinson 
recieved a 3-23 month sentence. 
Robinson is currently serving a 5-10 year 
sentence for burglary.
Minutes of the Student 
Senate, March 3, 1987
Meeting called to order 7:05pm
Present: Bendre, Bostin, Christina, Clark, 
Flynn, Friedland, Goldstein, Greenberg, 
Hausman, Kombrek, Larson, Levy D, Levy 
E, Lewis, Liu, Martin, Maxwell, 
Mukherjee, Rapaport, Robitshek, Sharpe, 
Shastri, Sherlock, Shipley, Staresinic, 
Urbanski.
Absent: Stachura (exc.), West (exc.) 
Ex-officio members: Dean Cox, Chu, 
DeLeon, Denburg.
Absent: Dean Walter 
Audience Participation: None.
Dean Cox: Dean Walters is looking into 
issue of improving quality of life at CMU. 
President: Jim Denburg No report.
SDC: Leanne Chu New policy for
firedoors being made. Alcohol will no longer 
be permitted at parties in dorms. Room draw 
is coming up soon.
IFC: Greek Sing is Friday March 6th at 
Carnegie Music Hall.
Parking Committee: Shep Bostin
Meeting with representatives from 
Neighborhood Assoc.'s to talk to 
Administration in conjunction with plans for 
new Parking areas.
Chairman: Dave Goldstein Talked
about 'quality of life: setting up more 
advisory committee's - more happy hours - 
possibility of setting up faculty and student 
committee to discuss 'quality of life' issue. 
Senate volunteers needed to help with info, 
booth for Spring Carnival.
Treasurer: Fred DeLeon No report. 
Academic Affairs: Norman Larson
Discussing Core with Academic Affairs 
members. Working to bring back integration 
of University which is now separated by 
different colleges. Possibility of more 
interdisciplinary courses, more freedom 
within colleges, better facilities to help 
faculty/student relations.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kornbrek
Met with director of library to talk about 
increasing library hours from 7:30 to 3:00 
during finals. Discussed lack of leisure 
reading material in library. Escort/shuttle 
survey is out.
Funding & Recognition: Tamal
Mukherjee Motion to recognize Health 
Awareness Board as non-funded organization. 
Motion passed. Move to give special 
allocation of $1,116 to HAB for various 
expenses. Motion passed.
Public Relations: Nadine Flynn We
will be getting banner for Booth. Suggestion 
boxes are coming in soon.
Rules: Allen Greenburg Changes were 
made to SS Political Speakers' Forum Board 
Bylaws and Goals as a Committee. Motion 
to table revised copy until next week. 
Motion passed.
Old Business: None.
New Business: Senator D. Levy: Motion - 
I hereby motion that the funds of the 
Student Union be suspended until such time 
as they can come before Student Senate and 
explain the following allegation: The 
infringement of Title 17 of the US Code 
(regarding copyright laws). Specifically the 
photocopying of an article from the New 
York Times (p.6 February 25 issue) Senator 
Greenberg: Amendment to suspend Senate 
funding to Tartan due to unjustified article 
written about rape at ATil Amendment 
fails. Discussion: Senator Robitshek: Issue 
of alleged distribution of Student Union on 
Pitt. Campusa paper that we pay for. 
Senator Greenburg: Motion to remove this 
allegation from floor due to unwillingness to 
reveal names of witnesses who saw 
distribution taking place. Motion passed. 
Senator Greenberg: You claim the piece
from New York Times was an article. Not 
so. Just excerpts from a Treaty. Senator 
Levy: They printed article straight from the 
newspaper. We want to suspend their 
funding until suspicion is resolved. Senator 
Larson: Importance is that it is a studentrun organization. You are innocent until 
proven guilty. Senator D. Levy: This is the 
fourth time Student Union has broken 
copyright laws. They've been warned already. 
Senator Greenberg: Both Tartan and SU are 
student-run papers. Mistakes do occur. To 
suspend funding is going overboard in a 
situation where we are just trying to do a 
good job. Senator D. Levy: You can't retract 
copyright violations. What's done is done. 
Motion to suspend funds of Student Union.
COUPON pac Fol: fymmo 
,kjSS pUU
Motion passed.
Senator Greenberg: Motion to suspend funds 
of Tartan due to motion passed last semester 
that they not be regarded as official 
newspaper of sudent body. Motion fails. 
They removed that title from front page. 
Points of Discussion: Senator Larson: 
Problem of apathy on CMU campus. How 
!many people filled out teacher evaluations?
Student opinion is important. We need to 
stop the apathy between colleges. 
Announcements: Six CMU professors
have received National Science Foundations 
Presidential Young Investigators Award for 
1987: Michael M. Domach, James M. 
Howe, Mary Lou Maher, Rob A. Rutenbar, 
Mahadev Satyanarayanan and Daniel Sleator. 
Meeting Adjourned 8:14pm.
When you open the door 
to the unknown, 
theres no telling 
who will drop in... 
or who will drop dead.
WlTCHBOARD
by ROSE MARIE 
LANOCARROli
CINEMA GROUP presents A PARAGON ARTS INTERNAilONAL PRODUCTION WITCH8QARD"
Starring TODD ALLEN WNY KI1AEN STEPHEN NICHOLS Co staring KATHLEEN WILHOlTt BUftKE 8YRNES #th Spe 
Executive Producer WALTER S iOSTEN Produced by GERALD Gf OFfRAY Supervising Producer RON MITCHELL Assoc 
Director of Photography RQi H WAGNER Written and Directed by KEVIN S TENNEY -=,7- nr*

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanMarch 10,1987
continued from page 1
an estimated 513,000 recipients. Primary 
effects: reduces aid to lowand some middleincome students.
Guaranteed Student Loans (GSL): 
provides government-subsidized ten percent 
loans to all students passing a needs test A 
proposed cut of nearly two billion dollars 
would be achieved by halting federal subsidy 
of in-school interest rates and replacing the 
five percent origination fee with a nine 
percent "guarantee fee." Primary effects: 
requires all students to begin paying interest 
on loans while still in school; increases total 
cost of loans, cuts recipients by an estimated 
200,000.
State Student Incentive Grants
(SSIG): provides matching federal funds 
few state student aid programs. Proposed for 
complete elimination, affecting a half 
million students. Primary effects: reduces aid 
to low-income students.
SpeciiJ Programs for Disadvantaged 
Students (TRIO): provides counseling
and resources to encourage first-generation 
(people whose parents didn't go to college) 
and other students to enroll and remain in 
college. Faces more than 50 percent in cuts, 
eliminating 338,000 students (over 80 
percent of recipients). Primary effects: 
reduces aid to very low-income students.
Perkins Loan Program: adds federal 
funds to those of colleges and universities to 
establish campus-based revolving loan funds. 
Cuts would eliminate loans for some
200,000 students and increased interest rates 
would make the loans more expensive for 
those still eligible, Primary effects: reduces 
aid to low-income students. 
Income-Contingent Loan Program 
Pushed
While these and several other Education 
Department programs are being targeted for 
cuts, the administration is seeking $600 
million to expand the new IncomeContingent Loan Program now being tested
at ten U.S. colleges. Originally proposed by 
Secretary of Education William Bennett 
during last year's Higher Education Act 
reauthorization hearing, the program was 
limited by Congress to a $5 million 
experimental phase.
The ICL program would do away with 
federally subsidized interest rates while 
setting a cap of 15 percent. Borrowing limits
would be raised to $50,000, and students 
would be given longer repayment periods 
contingent upon their income after 
graduation. Some observers say this will 
lead to even greater debt burdens for many 
students. Patricia Smith, the American 
Council on Education's Director of 
Legislative Analysis, said that graduates
earning higher incomes will see few ill 
effects, but warns, "If you have the 
misfortune to borrow high and land a lowincome job, those interest rates are going to 
be a big problem."
Jim Schmidt, Associate Director of the 
National Student Roundtable, supports 
Smith's prediction. "While the concept of 
loan repayment schedules based upon postgraduation income is a positive one for 
students, this particular plan would only 
increase debt burdens and turn more people 
away from attending college."
The Department of Education, meanwhile, 
has issued somewhat conflicting statements 
concerning the programs intent. One official
46 Percent Financial Aid Cut 
Would Drop Three Million 
Recipients
ProgramApprovedReagan'sReagan's
BudgetProposedProposed
FY 1987BudgetBudget
RevisionFY 1988
FY 1987
Pell Grants$3.8 billion+$62 million$2.71 billion
Shortfall*:$100 million+$225 million
SEOG$412.5 million-$412.5 million0
Work-Study$592.5 million-$592.5 million0
NDSL$118 million-$118 million0
SSIG$76 million-$76 million0
GSL$3.004 billion-$287 million$1.177 billion
TRIO$176.4 million-$94 million$82.4 million
Perkins Loan$210 million-$188 million$26 million
ICL$5 million$600 million
Total$8.2 billion$2.055 billion$4.5 billion
* additional funds to compensate for inadequate allocation. 
FY = fiscal year
Source: American Council on Education
Now... Two Pregnancy Testing Locations
Oakland
Room 212
Park vale Plaza Buildings 
3520 Fbrbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
(412) 683-3730
Downtown
107 Sixth Street 
300 Fulton Building 
Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
(412) 562-1900
Women's Health Services.
FYee pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and instructions. 
Abortion services and confidential counseling available.
FOUR STAR 
PIZZA
COUPON
ONE COUPON PER SUB 
COUPON EXPIRES 
3/16/87
683-0400PITTSBURGH
OFF
ANY BIG 
12" SUB & 
A FREE 
16 OZ. CUP 
OF COKE
WE RESERVE THE 
RIGHT TO LIMIT 
OUR DELIVERY AREA
COUPON
FOUR STAR 
PIZZA
COUPON683-0400PITTSBURGH
A BIG 12"
THICK CRUST 
CHEESE 
PIZZA 
COUPON 
SAVINGS $2.00
ONE COUPON PER PIZZA 
COUPON EXPIRES 
3/16/87
COUPON
WE RESERVE THE 
RIGHT TO LIMIT 
OUR DELIVERY AREA
501 OFFS
Coen* in and Sava S0C on
Salon's Middle 
Food Store 
4705 Centre A Venue 
Pitttbuigh, PA 15213
Budget Cuts Hit Lowand Middle-Income Students Most
release said ICL's woe intended "to assist 
more poor students," while another explained 
the shift away from federal subsidies by 
stating that "students are the prime 
beneficiaries of their investment in higher 
education. It is therefore reasonable to expect 
them  not taxpayers  to shoulder most 
of the costs of that investment"
In defending the ICL program during a 
recent appearance before the Senate 
Committee on Labor and Human Resources 
Secretary of Education William Bennett said 
it was modeled on one proposed by Boston 
University President John Silber ten years 
ago. Silber's plan, known as the Tuition 
Advance Fund, also featured incomecontingent repayments, the concept of which 
would benefit low-income graduates. 
However, in a recent New York Times 
editorial, Silber pointed out that interest 
rates in his plan would range from two to 
eight percent, while the ICL would allow a 
maximum of "a crippling 15 percent"
The unproven nature of the ICL program 
leads many insiders to express doubts about 
expanding it so soot. Senator Robot 
Stafford (R-VT), ranking Republican on the 
Senate Subcommitee on Education, said 
during a recent appearance on "Face the 
Nation" that he thinks the administration is 
being premature in requesting the expanded 
program. "Senator Pell and I put that in on a 
trial basis at the administrations's request," 
he said. "We're supposed to re-evaluate the 
program in five years, and we're not even 
through the first year yet."
GRE Software Offered from ETS
(Princeton, NJ)  A software version of I 
Practicing to Take the GRE General 
Test - Number 4 has been developed by 
Educational Testing Service.
The software, which includes three fulllength, previously administered examI 
inations, can be used in practice or test 
modes. Its development was sponsored by 
the GRE Board.
Special features include MATHLAB for 
reviewing basic mathematics concepts, 
sample questions, explanations of questions 
and answers, and a clock to time the test 
taker. The system also provides estimated 
scores, percentile rank, and a summary of 
strengths and weaknesses by question type.
The software is designed for use with the 
paperbound edition of Practicing to Take 
the GRE General Test - No. 4, which 
is included in the package, along with a 
user's manual.
Both the paperbound book and the software ^ 
are the official guides for the GRE. The 
questions are from previously administered 
GRE tests, and the explanations were 
prepared by the people who developed the 
questions.
GRE scores are used by many institutions 
in the United States and Canada in selecting 
students for graduate study in most fields, ; 
including the sciences, humanities, and fine 
arts.
Selling for $55, the software edition of |? 
Practicing to Take the GRE General 
Test - No. 4 is available from university 
and commercial book stores, or Educational 
Testing Service (ETS). To request a 
descriptive brochure and ordering 
information, write to GRE Programs (MC), I 
Educational Testing Service, Rosedale Rd.,
MS 23-P, Princeton, NJ 08541-0001.
The system runs on IBM-PC or 100 
percent compatible machines (256K) with 
two floppy disk drives or one drive and a 
hard disk. It also requires a color monitor and 
color graphics adapter. An edition that runs 
on an Apple Macintosh or Macintoch Plus 
computer <128K) is* also available.c' ' - 

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Restaurant Review: The Two Levels of Brendan9s
By IRENE KAO
Tartan Staffwriter 
Two restaurants in one, but as different as 
can be. Although Brendans and Upstairs at 
Brendans are located in the same building on 
Walnut Street (Brendans is downstairs), the 
atmosphere and food are completely different
Located in the heart of Walnut Street, the 
shopping place in Shadyside, many 
customers go to Brendans for a drink or just 
to socialize. The setting is like a typical bar 
(always noisy and crowded) but the 
atmosphere is surprisingly comfortable. The 
tables and chairs are made of a dark stained 
wood that help to create separate islands of 
peace within this otherwise rambunctious 
place.
The menu reflects this setting of ordered 
chaos. Theres a wide variety of dishes and 
complete dinners at relatively low prices. 
Brendans menu ranges from a seafood bar to 
pasta to finger foods to sandwiches to 
complete dinners. The price range also varies 
from $2.25 for a Stuffed Pretzel, a large soft 
pretzel stuffed with Jack Cheddar cheese to 
Cajun Prime Rib for $12.95. However, the 
typical price range for the entrees is five to 
six dollars.
The last time I went to Brendans, I ordered 
Linguine with White Clam Sauce ($6.25) 
which was accompanied by their Homemade 
Bread that tasted like it was made in Moms 
kitchen. The meal was really filling with 
healthy servings to make sure that you dont
By KEI KURITA
Assistant Features Editor 
Have you ever seen those people wearing 
those neat sweatshirts that say PUSH in big 
bold letters? Ever wonder what it means? 
Ever wonder who they are? Well, they're the 
growing organization called Fringe.
During the late sixties, some Delta 
Upsilon fraternity brothers rebelled and 
decided to put together their own buggy team 
as a result. They needed some pushers, and 
several architecture students were able to 
fulfill that position. From that year on, the 
number of architecture majors involved 
grew, and thats how Fringe began. Back 
then, Fringe was a buggy team solely for 
and funded by architecture students. 
However, about a decade ago, they were 
required to discontinue this tradition and 
decided to include booth exhibitions during 
Spring Carnival and students of other majors 
to participate.
Today, FRINGE, as you may have 
guessed, is an organization primarily for 
architects. They sponsor fund-raisers by 
selling T-shirts (that say FRINGE with the 
same kind of big bold letters) and throw 
parties throughout the year like most other 
clubs, but they are mostly known for their 
buggy races and booth display during Spring 
Carnival.
Architects are among the more hard
working students on campus, and the fact 
that a lot of them decide to participate in the 
buggy races shows their dedication. The 
pushers are outside practicing at night like 
other teams. Apparently, their work pays 
off, since within the past several years, 
Fringe's men teams have placed in the top 
ten numerous times. One of the chairmen of 
Fringe, Marc Schindewolf, believes that 
Fringe is not sex discriminatory They encour
age women to push as well, and on a given 
night, it's not surprising to see more women 
pushing than men. As a result, the women's 
team also does impressively well  two Car
nivals agQ^tf^auw&i TftiiflPIfcoe.* <
leave the table hungry. Its a really good 
restaurant to go to if you just finish a day of 
shopping and want to relax. The only 
disadvantage is the long wait
This past weekend, since Ive been to 
Brendans several times already, I decided to 
try Upstairs at Brendans, which is a different
restaurant located above Brendans. To get to 
Upstairs at Brendans you first enter 
Brendans normally and go up a staircase in 
the center of the room. When I reached the 
top of the stairs, I was completely surprised 
by the difference from downstairs.
Upstairs at Brendans is a much smaller 
place because of the center staircase. It is 
enclosed by glass windows so the noise from 
Brendans cannot be heard and this leads to a
refined atmosphere. Upstairs is mainly lit by 
candlelight which also helps to add a bit of 
romance to the meal. All the tables are set 
with fresh miniature carnations and ornate 
place settings. Even at 7:00 PM, the place 
was very isolated and serene, but later on in 
the evening, more people arrived.The result 
of all this leads to a feeling that casual 
clothing may be a bit out of place.
Their extraordinary rankings not only stem 
from their physical prowess, but also 
because of the technical ingenuity of their 
buggies. The four buggies Fringe has used 
for their races in previous years are Hying 
Buttress (1971), which has been recently 
disqualified as a result of the new additions 
to the safety restrictions, Benefit (1984), 
Barrier (1986), and EMS (1986). Notice that 
most of the names are actually terms used in 
architecture!
So is Fringe basically just an organization 
that participates in the races to be number 
one? According to Schindewolf, not exactly.
-For architects,* who arc under a tremendous
The menu also reflects the higher dignity 
of Upstairs. The menu consists mainly of 
entrees by Chef Caley Augustine, Jr. who 
also prepares additional different entrees 
daily. The average price for the dishes is 
around sixteen dollars and you can choose 
from a choice of selections that includes
Breast of Duck Bayou Style, Veal Giovanni 
and Trout Margueray. I tried the Medallions 
of Beef (price varies) which was cuts from 
the tenderloin over fresh fettueini. The sauce 
varies each night and is selected by Chef 
Augustine. That night although the sauce 
was thick, its mildness highlighted the 
flavors of the beef.
All entrees include the house salad, with a 
choice of three specially prepared dressings.
A sorbet is given between the salad and the 
entree to cleanse the palate. Again there is a 
feeling of extra time put into each meal 
because of the daily variations in the flavor 
of sorbets. The bread served before the salad 
was really fantastic. The portions were also 
filling.
Although the food was very appetizing and 
continued on Page 8
amount of pressure throughout the year, 
pushing for Fringe is one of the ways to 
relieve this overwhelming amount of 
tension. Hence, unlike some of the other 
teams, their goal is not just to be the fastest 
and the best (although it would be very 
nice), but to have fun. Perhaps this not 
terribly competitive atmosphere is the reason 
why Fringe attracts students of other majors, 
such as designers and engineers. There's 
enough competitiveness in academics, so 
Fringe has the right attitude when they place 
their emphasis on having a good time, 
instead of just winning.
Wm tfflo Mmfis
Continuing this Saturday and Sunday 
at the Pittsburgh Aviary is the series of 
programs that start at 11 am and 
continue until 4 pm, sponsored by the 
Pittsburgh Aviary Volunteer Inter
preters.
These weekend programs will include 
live demonstrations, a display on 
attracting wild birds, storytelling for 
children and informal tours of the 
Aviary.
There is no additional charge for any of 
the programs, just the regular admission 
price to the Aviary. And what is that 
price? $1.50 for Adult residents; $2.00 
for non-residents. 75 cents for all 
children; those young and those over the 
age of 60 (the young at heart). Still 
want more information? Just call the 
Pittsburgh Aviary at 323-7235.
GIVEY OOV G GURSRG
Want the best view of Downtown 
Pittsburgh? Just want to get away from 
the University? Have I got a deal for 
you!
Mount Washington is the area that is 
on the cliff that faces the south side of 
downtown. The Monongahela Incline at 
Station Square will take you up there 
for the low price of only sixty cents.
Once you go up to Mount Washinton 
there are a few observation decks and 
you can look over the city.
A recommendation is to go at night 
because the lights of the city really 
make a beautiful sight.
How to get there? Simple, grab any of 
the buses going down Forbes Avenue 
and get off at Kaufmanns. Any of the 
buses that are running towards Station | 
Square will get you to Station Square. 
The Incline itself is behind Station 
Square running up the side of the 
mountain. Round-trip costs $1.20 and 
you pay at the top so be ready once you 
get off.
LF GIV MCYSRC N! CR 
CUEFSB
A Renaissance Theater, thats the 
theaters name, is getting ready to cast 
for its first production. The show is 
called Extras and was written by 
Phyllis MacBryde with music by Ms. 
Macbryde and Roger Bartlett
Equity and non-equity auditions will 
be taking place this Saturday and 
Sunday, March 14 and 15 at the 
Campbell Memorial Chapel on 
Chatham College campus. Womens 
audtions will take place in the morning; 
while Mens auditions will be in the 
afternoon.
They are looking for actors and 
actresses of any age and type. However 
they are specially looking for a Cindy 
Lauper type with a good singing voice.
If this sounds like a good idea to you 
then contact Victoria Dym at 441-8900.
After the Samt Patricks 
Parade
After the Saint Patrick s Day parade 
this Sunday March 14, why dont you 
stick around downtown and visit the 
celebrations at PPG Place.
From noon until 4 pm, there will be 
the band Guaranteed Irish to entertain 
the crowd with the music of the Emerald 
Isle. The PPG Place leprechaun will 
also pass out surprises to the wee ones.
Upstairs at iTBrendms
Fringe: A Group Thats Not on Edge
Brendan's

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanMarch 10, 1987
Biking Across the States for Charity
Special to The Tartan
When I started the ride, begins Lisa 
Wolf, a Stanford University senior, I was 
not an avid cyclist. I didn't even buy a bike 
 I used my ten-speed from the eighth 
grade. Last summer Lisa joined a group of 
75 enthusiastic Americans, who represented 
28 different campuses, and ranged from 15- 
55 years in age. They rode 3,000 miles 
across the country, braving mountains and 
deserts, averaging 70 miles a day. The riders 
arrived at the United Nations building in 
New York City eight weeks after their 
departure. They were part of Bike 
Aid/Pedalling for Progress, an event 
sponsored by the Overseas Development 
Network (ODN). This nation-wide student 
organization uses the money raised from 
Bike-Aid pledges and student chapters to fund 
projects promoting community development 
from the local level.
In 1986, Bike-Aid riders earned roughly
$100,000, half of which is matched by ODN 
campus chapters and given to small self-help 
projects in the Third World. About a third 
goes to organizations sharing the network's 
grass-roots philosophy: Trickle-Up, Bikes 
not Bombs, Ashoka, and IDEX. Oxfam 
America will be added as a beneficiary in 
1987. The last twenty percent funds student 
internships in Africa and India, and ODN's 
American project in Appalachia.
Every penny goes to the projects. We 
spend none of it on operational costs, 
explains ODN director Nazir Ahmad proudly.
After the success of 1986, Nazir has high 
expectations for Bike-Aid '87. He encourages 
people of all ages to get involved. Shirley 
Twigg was 54 years old when she rode form 
Portland to New York. She emphasizes: 
Just ride at your own pace and keep 
moving; youll keep up no matter how 
slowly you go. You'll surprise yourself!
Not everyone dedicates the full eight
rrn
M
1 1
r f1 e  e * e k 1
JREAKAWAY---------
fit
WE USE ONLY THE FINEST QUMJTY INGREDIENTS 
NMSr Mr
........................ 332 5.37
Hot SouMpa........................ 3-32 537
Ham .................................... 299 557
Piwroton* ..........................~2AA 457Hart Sciami ...................... 332 5-37
Tuna................................... Z99 S07aaan.................................. 3J2 SJ7TgacocTh .................... sd 627
Roarttoaf ........................ 377 639Confetnafton ..................... 4.12 6S9
(Ham. Tutay.  Roca Seal)
3AN0WICMES Kr~s Ml you; CHotoo of Kettzs Soli or logai
Sodo 16co koMs ...........flOCaact*WMPtcMoiiMnDiw
Plain  Onion-Pya 
ti down bagm 
an Und or ortad 
Uncut ......................
18035:6&85C
TAGOt
Hart Sdami. Tina .........
TurtMytwatf 
Boa* Baal
Comttna%jr
332
299264332
299332364
377
412
A Spey Mirioan SpaaaWy 
Baaf Taoo*........................99C
A House Specialty. Modo in our 
OMffi kitchen*Cheese fc Potalo Fled. Smothered m our own Butter  
Onion Sauce.
hatfiOfrpftl
Toead
Get Salad .. 
Shrimp Salad
1.75330
330
6 to an ortar ...........aaam add wtoixHo nue odd
Theaereae
29525C60CTcfc* arri horn* and pupo wm you way By tw Doan------------3-25
SOUPOT TW 0*Y
Larga 12 n. Bowl
Chi....................
1.45
136Ptam or lobaoui3CC
oemrnum ortw tor drt.aty $SJ04 wbt includa: enaj. Wfc. tomrta oa  rhLcOpaond Sarr* aw moyomOSa. vhhTy w K# peopan
PRCES SUBJECT TO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE
(FREE DELIVERY)
CALLUS362-6900258 S. HIGHLAND AVI.
1966 BubPa'i BweaoMOy
om 7 DAYS A W;
SUNDAY-THURS.
11 AM TUI MIDNIGHT 
FRI.-SAT.
11 AM HU. 1 AM
Sydeme. ine
FREE 16 OZ. DRINK
(Pep*. Diet Pepsi. 
Mountain Dew)
WITH THE PURCHASE OF 
ANY 14* BUBBA'S 
SUB
Exnees: 3/28/87
NOT VAUD WITH ANV OIHEW 
COUPON ON SflME MEMJ fTEM 
CUSTOMER PAYS APPUC/ SALES TAX 
UMTTH3 DEUVBf/AflEA
BUBfl/S FOR TWO
t tn. ooBoBT fi:
2 16 oz Drinks
M SBKJ of sArm.
For only $447 ? IAX
if
BREAKAWAY
*C*T VAUD \MTH ANY OlHEP 
COUPON ON SAME MB<J fTEM 
CUSTOMER PAYS APRJCA0LE SALES TAX 
<MTED D&ARY AREA
1HANK YOU KM YOUR rAIR0NA6F
____J
Bifeg
1 . T . I . . . . 
weeks. Riders can participate as much as 
they want, for a week or even a day. For 
Lisa Wolf, though continually meeting 
people throughout the country was the most 
rewarding part of Bike-Aid. I stayed with a 
semi driver and his wife in Ohio, sharing 
their hospitality and learning about their life. 
In Bismarck, North Dakota, we met a priest 
who drove all the way to Wisconsin to see 
us one more time. And I just got a letter 
from an 8-year old boy in Montana who 
offered us a place to sleep. That's what 
makes it such a great adventure.
On June 17, 1987, cyclists will depart 
from Seattle, Portland, San Francisco, Los 
Angeles, and Austin. A Canadian route from 
Vancouver may be added as well. All groups 
converge in Washington, D.C., then pedal 
together to New York for two days of 
festivities.
For more information you can call (415) 
725-2869.
This space could have been your Ad.
Call Andy at x2111
BrendansReview
continued from Page 7
the restaurants decor was beautiful, 
the atmosphere can be a bit over
bearing. Throughout dinner, a busboy 
stood behind us so once we were done 
with a dish, he would take it away. I 
admit its nice not to have dirty plates 
on the table, but having a person to 
constantly clean up can be very irrita
ting. You would think this restaurant 
would have much more privacy than 
the one downstairs, but this is not the 
case.
Upstairs at Brendans is not a typical 
hang-out place for students, especially 
poor college students. Even though the 
restaurant is not too crowded, reser
vations should be made. For full ser
vice dining, large parties and banquets, 
Upstairs at Brendans is the perfect 
place, but if you want more casual di
ning at a saloon with raw bar and live 
entertainment Wednesday through 
Sunday, Brendans is the restaurant for 
you.
Brendan's is open Monday through 
Sunday 11:30 am  2:00 am and if 
you wish more information call 683- 
5656. Upstairs at Brendan s is open 
Tuesday through Saturday for lunch 
and dinner. For more information call 
683-5661.
Marketing Firm Offers Scholarships
By DAVID LEVY
Tartan Features Editor
Vector Marketing Corporation will spon
sor an esssay contest exclusively for under
graduates.
The contest is open to students of any 
major with the only restriction being that 
the student must currently be studying at a 
university and they may not be previously 
associated with Vector Marketing 
Corporation.
Students are asked to write a 500 - 750 
word essay on the topic of The Importance 
of Interpersonal Communication Skills 
Specific to your Career Goals. According to 
Don Freda, President of Vecto Marketing, a 
college student needs more than just a high
academic standing and experience to be 
truly successful when pursuing a career.  '
The wining essay contestant will receive 
$1,000 in scholarship monies, with the 
first runner-up receiving $500. Second 
and third runners-up will be awarded $250 
each.
Entries will be judged on the basis of 
originality, practicality and creative 
thinking. Correct grammer, punctuation 
and composition are also esssential.
The deadline is Monday, March 16 1987 
and entries should be sent to Vector 
Marketing Corporation, 1620 Woodland 
Avenue, Springfield, PA 19064. All 
winner will be notified by March 31,
1987.
THE ORIGINAL 
HOT DOG SHOP
3901 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
HOURS:Mon. thru Sun. 9 am - 4:30 amFri. and Sat. 9 am - 6:00 am
Video Disco Music Box 
projected on a 6ft. video screen
i---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1
i
Hot Turkey or Roost Boot 
Sandwich, Fries, & Ski. Soft Drink ONLY $2.29
I1 (must present coupon before ordering)
exp. 3/13/87
i
i________________________________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Greek Sing 87
By AMY sxjfcVKiNSUlN
Tartan Staffwriter
Greek Sing 87 was held last Friday at Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland. As always, the participating fraternities 
and sororities provided a full night of entertainment for the crowd. Greek Sing/Swing co-chairmen Todd Tomczyk 
and Paula Johnson opened the show and kept things rolling in between acts. Each year the proceeds of Greek Sing 
go to a different charity. Greek Sing $7 will donate the night's profits to the Myasthenia Gravis Foundation. A 
telegram from National MG chairman Tony Randall was received and read on stage, extending thanks to Carnegie 
Mellons IFC for their generous contribution.
Sigma Nu was the opening act in the fraternity division, presenting their annual ZOO Tunes. A small band 
provided the exotic background music for some hefty bellydancers and a snakelike chain of brothers. As the 
performance went on, the audience was invited to join in, lamenting the fate of a goat doomed to die. Another 
highlight was the appearance of the guy who dances around with the big brown thing on his head, a favorite Greek 
Sing tradition.
The brothers, pledges and little sisters of Alpha Epsilon Pi were next, making their first Greek Sing appearance 
with a Blast from the Past. The dress as well as the music and dance steps focused on the simpler, popular music 
of the 1950's. The audience got a taste of music from the Fifties with The ABCs of Love, One Fine Day and 
Blue Moon, complete with the obligatory clarinet solo.
Pi Lam da Phi followed, competing in the mixed division with selections from the Broadway musical Godspell. The 
colorful tie-dyed costumes propelled us back to the generation of the flower children where we witnessed The Second 
Coming. They began with Day by Day, moving into a selection featuring a little sister with the power to pry 
men away from the religion. The use of flashlights on a darkened stage flowed into a staging of the crucifixtion. A 
single blue light focused on the dying Jesus, as his followers lay still on the stage. An intense ending depicted the 
followers marching of stage solemnly carrying the dead Jesus from the stage.
The brothers, pledges and little sisters of Sigma Tau Gamma were the second fraternity of the evening to be 
making their Greek Sing debut with selections from the most sensational, celebrational, inspirational, 
muppetationaT Muppet Show. The costumes were original, representing the whole gang: Kermit, Fozzie Bear, Bob 
the Dog, Gonzo, Animal, the ravishing Miss Piggy and even the two old coots that hang out in the balcony. The 
audience heard all the familiar Muppet Show songs, backed up by the Electric Mayhem. Sigma Tau Gamma took
continued on the following page.
Top: Sigma Alpha Epsilon took top 
honors of the night with their tribute 
to Irving Berlin: Berlin to Broadway.
Above: The sisters of Delta Delta 
Delta earned First Place in the 
Sorority category with selections rom 
Chicago.
Left: Theta Xis proving that luck can 
be a lady with selections from Guys 
and Dolls.

---------------------------------------------------

Fraternities
1. 2AE 5. riKA
2. AY 6. Bn
3. OK 7. ZN
4. KE
Photos
Left: Delta Upsilon does their thing with the 
Ole Bamboo and earns second place.
Below: Pi Kappa Alpha enjoys being the Pirate 
King with their fifth place berth.
Below Left: Beta Theta Pis Launcelot sings If 
Ever I Would Leave You.
Bottom: Phi Kappa Alpha does a western dance 
over their third place win.
The second sorority to compete was Kappa 
Kappa Gamma. Backed by scenes from a 
New York City skyline, the sisters and 
pledges lead us through the stages of the 
Broadway Musical 42nd Street. They began 
with the auditionsboth voice and dance. 
The voice auditions featured several good 
soloists while the dance audition to 42nd 
Street showed the talents of the rest of the 
house. The sisters donned tuxes and hats 
when they learned they had gotten the parts, 
presenting We're In The Money. The scene 
switched once more to opening night, the 
finale and Lullaby of Broadway. The tight 
vocals and good use of costume and scenery 
helped Kappa stage a successful night on the 
great white way.
Delta Delta Delta followed in the sorority 
division with an impressive performance of 
selections from Chicago. The costumes were 
excellent, easily transporting the audience to 
the Roaring Twenties. They opened with a 
slick dance number to All That Jazz, 
featuring one of the several fine soloists in 
Tri-DelL Next, the girls ended up behind 
bars after shooting their men in the 
imaginatively staged Cell Block Tango. 
However, they were not to be kept down, 
promising to Razzle Dazzle their jurors as 
well as the audience. The sisters continued 
the dazzling performance throughout the 
rest of their act with clever choreography and
continued from the previous page
Jim Hensons characters one step further, ending with a comic chorus line.
The brothers and pledges of Kappa Sigma followed with the true comic relief of the night. They opened to 
a scene of manly-sounding but daintily-dressed waifs, scrubbing the floor of the orphanage, bewailing their 
Hard Knock Life. Theres no Santa for these kids. Then the girls, along with Daddy Warbucks, reminded 
us that Youre Never Fully Dressed Without a Smile. The most optimistic ragamuffin, Annie, smacked 
her friends around reminding them, again and again, that there's always Tomorrow. That sun did come out, 
racing around the stage, to bring the performance to a close. Kappa Sigs imaginative use of props and off
beat humour made their Annie a little less annoying than the original.
Phi Kappa Theta was the next competitor in the fraternity division with Joseph and his Amazing 
Technicolor Dreamcoat, the Broadway story of the Biblical Joseph. The brothers did a good job of recreating 
the story, from the gift of the psychadelic coat to the selling of Joseph into slavery by his brothers to 
Joseph's triumphant return as king. The transformation from Biblical times to a western hoedown was
clever and well staged. All parts 
were represented by musical 
selections, intensified by the 
strong, bold vocals of the 
brothers.
The brothers and pledges of Delta Upsilon closed the first half of the show presenting selections from Chitty 
Chitty Bang Bang, in their usual professional Greek Sing tradition. Brothers filled the stage in realistic costumes 
to depict the story of the car that could fly. Imaginative accompaniment set the stage for the imaginative use of 
scenery and props that followed. Especially exciting was the dance utilizing the Ole Bamboo sticks as the 
brothers displayed their skilled footwork. The first half ended with the strong rendition of the title song and the 
appearance of the magnificent vessel herself.
The sisters and pledges of Chi Omega opened after intermission with selections from Annie Get Your Gun. 
Western costumes in their sorority colors was an original idea. They told the Broadway tale of another Annie, a 
pistol packin chick who needed a man. At first, Annie thinks the way to a man's heart is through a bullet in his 
leg, however the sisters of Chi-0 persuaded her to milder means in You Can't Get a Man with a Gun. The 
sisters closed with an old fashioned wedding between Annie and her beau.
The next competitor in the fraternity division was Beta Theta Pi. Only two brothers took the stage, each 
presenting elegant versions of time honored love songs. The first selection was If Ever I Would Leave You 
from the musical Camelot followed by chairman Steve Stone with Somewhere from West Side Story.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment 
Comics 
Classifieds 
Events
A Delightful Escape to the Italian Riviera in 1926
By LESLIE GRIFFIN
Special to the Tartan
For a delightful escape from the hustle and 
bustle of the 80's, see The Play's the Thing 
at the Pittsburgh Public Theater. Its a 
charming step back into summertime 1926 
on the Italian Riviera, where choosing a 
brand of cognac and deciding what to have 
for breakfast are lifes pressing issues. Two 
and a half hours whisk by as the seven char
acters wittily wriggle their way in and out of 
trouble. If youre grumpy when you go into 
this light comedy, youll leave happy.
The airy mood of the play is captured 
brilliantly by the set, a lavish marble-laden 
castle interior designed by Cletus Anderson, 
head of theatre design here at Carnegie 
Mellon. Every opulent detail rings true, 
from the embroidered bell-pull to the oriental
rug on the inlaid floor. Characters enter from 
all parts of the theater, drawing the audience 
deep into the elegant atmosphere-how could 
life be anything but wonderful in 
surroundings like these? Equally impressive 
are the handsome costumes designed by 
Emmy-award winning David Murin. The 
gentlemen are impeccably clothed in either 
tuxedos or white linen suits, the single lady 
in the show in satins and sequins.
The action centers around the playwright 
Sandor Turai (Robert Gerringer), his 
pessimistic collaborator Mansky (Tom 
Celli) and their shenanigans to rescue the 
engagement between the naive young 
composer Albert Adam (Robert Stanton) and 
the beautiful prima donna Ilona Szabo 
(Melinda Mullins). A compromising con
versation between Ilona and her former
lover, the obnoxious actor Almady (Arthur 
Bums) is overheard by the three men. Broken
hearted, Adam threatens to bum all the 
music he has written. To save the day, Turai 
concocts a wild scheme to make Adam be
lieve the conversation was actually dialouge 
for a play being rehearsed. The resulting 
twists and turns of the plot as Turai puts his 
plan into action are hilarious.
The cast is impressive. Gerringers per
formance as Turai is masterful, as is Cellis 
fastidious, sarcastic rendering of Mansky. 
These gentlemen are a sparkling team as 
they weave Turai's unsinkable optimism and 
Mansky's nervous pessimism into one funny 
confrontation after another. Melinda Mullins 
plays the prima donna role with beauty and 
quirky wit, her elfin face constantly molding 
itself to match the humor of the
moment Arthur Bums shines as Almady, 
the vain and paranoid actor-it would be easy 
to make this character unbearable, but Bums 
balances Almady's unsavory aspects with 
enough humanity to keep him funny and 
yes, even vaguely likable. The weakest of 
the bunch is Robert Stanton as Adam. His 
lines were sorrowfully funny and worthy of 
sympathy; his delivery, unfortunately, 
wasn't. Stanton's performance was notice
ably overpowered by the excellence of the 
rest of the cast. Also worthy of note are the 
performances of Greg Vinkier as the butler 
and Time Winters as the secretary-both are 
hysterically funny and I was sorry their parts 
werent larger.
Directed by George L. Sherman and 
produced by William T. Gardner, The Play's
continued on page D9
A Look at This Weeks Local Films
By CURT WOHLEBER
Special to the Tartan 
Dr. Strangelove
Almost a quarter century later, 
Stanley Kubrick's brilliant satire about 
superpower politics and nuclear conflict is 
still hilarious and relevant. Those of you 
who havent seen this movie (and shame 
on you if you belong to this group) can 
catch it at the Pittsburgh Playhouse this 
Friday.
Dr. Strangelove, or How I Learned to 
Stop Worrying and Love the Bomb looks 
at what might happen if a mad general 
took it upon himself to start World War 
III. General Jack D. Ripper (Sterling 
Hayden) orders his bomber wing into 
Soviet airspace. The President of the 
United States and his staff try to avert 
Armageddon, conferring with a drunk 
Soviet premier and sending in National 
Guard troops to apprehend the psychotic 
General Ripper.
Dr. Strangelove boasts a number of 
unforgettable comic performances. 
Hayden gives possibly the best 
performance of his career. George C. 
Scott, a decade before Patton, plays the
dimwitted, gum-chewing General Buck 
Turgidson; Slim Pickens is Major Kong, the 
B-52 commander. But most memorable is 
Peter Sellers triple-performance as the 
President, Group Captain Mandrake, and the 
wheelchair-bound ex-Naxi presidential 
advisor, Dr. Strangelove.
The script, which Kubrick co-wrote 
with Peter George (who penned the taut 
nuclear thriller Fail Safe.) mixes broad 
comedy with documentary realism. In the 
years since Strangelove the case against 
nuclear weapons has been stated in 
continued on page D8
Forbes Gallery
By CHRIS CORRIGAN
Special to the Tartan
This week's show at the Forbes Gallery 
will feature mostly paintings and perhaps, 
yet still unkown at th writing of this 
article, a smattering of drawings by Lisa 
Smith and Alyssa Sprague.
Ms. Smith will put up some of her 
brightly colored figurative paintings and, 
"Maybe a drawing, I'm not sure." Although 
she might not show any drawings, don't be 
bummed because her paintings are fabulous 
and well worth the walk to the comer of 
Forbes and Margaret Morrison. "I like to use 
a landscape as an arena or background setting 
for figures in motion." As a result, Ms. 
Smiths work is bright, energetic and 
flamboyant as is her wit and charm.
Alyssa Sprague will also be hanging 
some of her more interesting paintings. 
Like Smith, Ms. Sprague relies on her 
strong command of bright colors to show 
through in her pieces. But her work is less 
figurative and shows more concern with 
geometric shapes rather than figures. She 
combines colors with abstract and personal 
images to create works that can't help but to
continued on page D4
George Lucas Futuristic Society of THX1138
By REV. DR. JAMES B. MILLER
Special to The Tartan
CMU is often characterized as a gateway to 
the hi-tech future. Such a characterization is 
applied to both individuals, the graduates 
who will be the technologists, even 
technocrats, of the burgeoning new infor
mation society. The gateway image is also 
applicable to the research at CMU which is 
viewed as opening up new avenues of 
technological development and so economic 
and social change. Many of us feel relatively 
good about the possibilities of such a future, 
but there are others who are less optimistic 
about the direction of these developments.
In the late 1960s, a young student of film
making at the University of Southern 
California produced a 20 minute short 
subject entitled THX-1138-4eb. It was 
filmed in part in the yet to be opened Bay
Area Rapid Transit system. He later went on 
to co-write and direct a much expanded 
version of this film as his first major 
theatrical production and as the first project 
of American Zeotrope, Francis Ford 
Coppolas San Francisco-based film center. 
It was not a box office smash (although I 
have a Jesuit friend who claims that it is the 
best science fiction film ever made). The 
producer stated that Warner Bros., the 
distibutor, did not sufficiently promote the 
film.
Be that as it may, the film maker went on 
to make his fame and fortune with 
American Graffiti and the Star Wars 
Trilogy. Im speaking, of course, of George 
Lucas. And for the moment I would like for 
us to consider his vision of science, 
technology, religion and society as it was 
displayed in both versions of THX.
The plot of the film centers on the efforts
by an individual (namely, THX-1138-4eb, 
played by Robert Duvall in the full-length 
version) to escape an authoritarian, highly 
technological society. It is a society in 
which human beings are interchangeable 
parts in the societal machine; it is a society 
in which individual human variances are drugcontrolled in order to assure production 
accuracy and conformity; it is a society in 
which the police are robots; it is a society in 
which religious dogma and spiritual counsel 
serve political and economic goals; it is a 
society in which all activity is determined by 
the accountants bottom line.
This is not a pretty vision. But as you may 
recognize, this was the vision of the 
technological society for many sensitive 
people in the late 60s and early 70s. It 
remains the vision of a significant contem
porary subculture. It is a vision of an author
itarian scientific technocracy in which
authoritarian religion serves as either 
handmaiden or tool. In this context it is 
interesting to note Lucas notion of 
salvation. In the last scene of both the short 
and the full length feature, THX is 
successful; he climbs out of the underground 
society and into the bright glare of a sun 
shining on a technologically empty (one 
might even say barren or even desolate) 
landscape. THXs salvation is a return to 
nature in the raw.
It is also interesting to compare the THX 
films with the Star Wars series. Now there 
is plenty of technology in the latter series. 
Yet, it is the personal and non-technok>gical 
elements of the story which are central. Even 
the two robotic characters are interesting 
because of their human-like flaws (pride, 
arrogance, self-centeredness) and virtues 
(loyalty, self-sacrifice). The viilians in the
continued on page Dtl

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanMarch 10,1987
The Drive-In Academy Award Nominations
Members of the Chainsaw 2 cast, celebrating after learning of their Drive-In Academy Award nominations.
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Drive-In Movie Critic 
The Drive-In Academy Award Nominating 
Committee met three straight nights last 
week in the bedroom of my trailer house, 
and then we finally got down to the serious 
business of selecting the DIAA nominees. 
This is the fifth straight year of the awards, 
and every year we get MORE ballots, and so 
if you wanna vote for the Hubbies this year, 
send it in RIGHT NOW or else I'll get de
pressed at how big the stack is and I won't 
count em up.
Remember: All votes are final, except the 
ones I don't like.
Extra points if you write somethin funny.
I don't know where we're holdin the awards 
ceremony this year, but it's on the same 
night as the fake Academy Awards in El 
Lay.
Award, as usual, is an engraved Chevy hub 
cap.
If you DONT vote, then I dont want you 
complainin next year about what kind of 
drive-in flicks we got.
Here goes:
BEST FLICK
"Pray for Death": Best kung fu since 74, 
when Bruce Lee's head blew up, about a 
Japanese ninja who moves to Houston to 
start a neighborhood improvement group, 
lay a little bathroom tile, play a little 
Frisbee, but he has to kill the 48 members 
of the Houston Mafia first. Original got an 
X for violence.
"Eliminators": A cross between "The 
Wizard of Oz," "Death Wish," "Franken
stein," "Taxi Driver," "The African Queen," 
"Quest for Fire" and "The Gong Show," 
filmed in Mexico.
"Delta Force": Jewish character actors blow 
up Beirut for freedom-loving peoples in 
Beverly Hills.
"The Naked Cage": Best whining-bimbosin-cages since "The Big Doll House."
"Critters": Porcupine tumbleweeds from 
outer space answer the question "What's 
eating the American farmer?"
"Raw Deal": Arnold can't get no 
satisfaction.
"Demons": Entire audience at the 
moviehouse turned into linguini noodles by 
Head-chomping Method actors.
"The Fly": Jeff Goldblum gets Cream-ofWheat Cancer Face and practices his gym
nastics.
"Trick or Treat": Dead metalhead rock star 
comes back to life, jumpin out of kids' 
stereos, takin over their minds, wreckin their 
rooms when their mother's not lookin, killin 
all the jocks and their crudhead girlfriends, 
and laserin the whole high school to death 
with his guitar.
BEST GOOD GUY 
Sho Kosugi, the new kung fu king in 
"Pray for Death," who kicks hundreds of 
hineys while saying "Im sorry  my fault
 so sorry."
Patrick Reynolds, as the Mandroid in 
"Eliminators," half-man and half-Patton 
tank.
Chuck Norris, who invades Lebanon in 
"Delta Force," rips the mattress off a bed, 
finds an Arab terrorist hiding under the 
springs, points an Uzi submachine gun at 
him, and says "Sleep tight, sucker!" and then 
wanders around the jungle with Lou Gossett 
In "Firewalker."
Charles Bronson, hunting down Carrie 
Snodgress in "Murphy's Law."
Sly Rocky Ram bo, as "Cobra," who hunts 
down a killer army of ugly bikers that like 
to blow up Safeways and kill dozens of 
innocent people "for the publicity."
Arnold the Barbarian, in "Raw Deal," 
where he's so cool he destroys one entire 
building by himself.
Timothy Bottoms, as the "evacuate the 
population" character in the baboon-attack 
flick "In the Shadow of Kilimanjaro,'' for 
revealm his actual Timothys bottom.
Forrest Tucker, as the trucker in "Thunder 
Run," who decides to kill some terrorists by 
driving plutonium across the Arizona desert 
in the hope they'll attack him and he can 
blow up their camouflaged Volkswagens. 
(Forrest's last movie.)
Jeff Goldblum, in "The Fly," who failed to 
catch the 1958 version and ended up lettin 
the same thing happen to him, only gooier.
Marc Price, the kid rocker in "Trick or 
Treat"
James Remar, the New York cop who 
blows up in the Polio Weed plantations in 
northern California in "Quiet Cool."
BEST BAD GUY
James Booth, who wrote "Pray for Death" 
and also played Limehouse, the guy who 
gets his jollies out of pouring gasoline on 
people and sayin "Hey, how about a Viking 
funeral?"
Robert Forster, as Abdul the greasy 
hijacker in "Delta Force," the guy who wears 
a real stupid silk shirt and says "Everyone 
getting up and going to beck of plin now."
Nick Benedict, "Smiley" the guard in "The 
Naked Cage," for assaulting helpless unem
ployable actresses and NEVER SAYING 
HES SORRY.
Rutger Hauer, as "The Hitcher," who 
carries a switchblade, smells bad, and says 
stuff like "First I cut off his legs. And his 
arms. And his head."
Julian Beck, as The Man in Black in 
"Poltergeist n," who keeps tryin to get 
inside the house and sell spiritual Herbalife 
to the whole family.
John Rhys-Davies, the guy in "In the 
Shadow of Kilimanjaro" who wants to shoot 
a thousand baboons and leave their bodies for 
the rest of the baboons to eat, and ends up 
fighting off 30 baboons with a stick.
Bill Moseley, as Chop-Top in "The Texas 
Chainsaw Massacre, Part 2," for requesting 
Inna Gadda Davida and screaming "A bonus 
body!" and "Bubba's got a girlfriend!" and  
as he bludgeons an innocent bystander to 
death  "Incoming mail! Incoming mail!"
Ozzy Osbourne, as the TV preacher in 
'Trick or Treat," for his critiques of the al
bums Torture's Too Kind" and "Do It Like 
a Dog."
Nick Cassavetes, as the local goonhead 
gang leader in "Quiet Cool" and the local 
goonhead gang leader in "The Wraith" whose 
idea of true love is he'll kill anybody that 
looks at his girlfriend.
BEST ACTRESS
Melissa Leo, as the girl who gets off the
Greyhound in "Streetwalkin," and im
mediately falls in love with the first pimp 
that comes along, dresses up like Erich von 
Stroheim and tells old men to moo like a 
cow, and gets personally offended when her 
business associates make sexist remarks.
Mary Woronov, wearing a turquoise Naugahyde mini-skirt in "Terrorvision," dealing 
with her son by saying "No, dear, your 
father and I might be swinging tonight"
Kathryn Harrold, the drunk bimbo spy in 
"Raw Deal," for sayin "The only way you'll 
end up lying next to me. Max, is if we get 
run over by the same car."
Yeardley Smith, as Connie the whining 
newlywed in "Maximum Overdrive," for say
in "Curtis, are you dead?" and "Oh, honey, 
youre bleeding like a stuck pig."
Geena Davis, as the girlfriend in "The 
Fly," for sayin "You look bad, you smell 
bad, and you have these weird hairs growing 
out of your back."
Caroline Williams, in "The Texas Chain
saw Massacre, Part 2," who discourages 
Leatherface from slicing off her head by 
saying "I'm trying to be open with you, it's 
nobody's fault, I just can't do this."
Sybil Danning, for puttin out a line of 
videos so she can dress up in Halloween 
costumes once a month, and attempting to 
quote Saint Joan in "Reform School Girls." 
BREAST ACTRESS
Marta Kober, who goes on a date with an 
entire punk band in "School Spirit."
Jennifer Richards, the Elvira lookalike in 
"Terrorvision," for stuffin the world's mush
iest garbonzas into a big ole parachute bra.
Christina Whitaker, as Rita the Bad Girl in 
"The Naked Cage," who puts cocaine on her 
garbonzas.
Nadine Van der Velde, for making the sign 
of the twin-pronged alfalfa plow with a guy 
from New York in the hay bam and 
watching him get munched into a furry Frito 
in "Critters."
Lauren Holly, as the 16-year-old nympho 
girlfriend of Anthony Quinn's son in "Band 
of the Hand," for having witchcraft sex in a 
zebra condo.
Wendy Barry, as Leon Isaac Kennedy's 
girlfriend in "Knights of the City," for 
saying "Nobody dumps me, Mister Up
town!" and then puttin on some hooker wear 
and singin a song called "I won't give it 
away for nothing, I won't give it away for 
free!"
Virginia Loridans, as the surviving Tanya 
in "Mountaintop Motel Massacre," the first
actress in five years of DIAA nominations to 
write in and advertise her own nipples.
Natale McCurry, the world's famous 1983 
Miss Young International of Australia, who 
spends most of her time in "Dead End DriveIn" either aardvarking in the back seat or 
havin her hair raked into a bean sprout 
sandwich like Pat Benatar.
Wendy O. Williams, road-testing a Playtex 
Cross-Your-Heart and strutting around like a 
prize rooster in "Reform School Girls."
Andree Maranda, the blind girl with huge 
breasts who likes to go on camp-outs in 
"The Toxic Avenger."
Elise Richards, a jock girlfriend in "Trick 
or Treat," for havin lakeside devil-dragon 
metalhead sex with a ghost and gettin her ear 
turned to green goo by a Sony walkman.
BEST MONSTER
Sonny Bono, as a giant Caesar's salad with 
a bad singing voice in "Troll."
Alejandro Rey, a homosexual swinger in 
"Terrorvision."
Curt Wilmot, as the Rambo Skeleton in 
"House," the first soldier-of-fortune monster, 
who comes all the way from Nam to kill 
the star of the movie.
The Critters in "Critters."
Leon Isaac Kennedy, trying to sing like a 
midget Lionel Richie in "Knights of the 
City."
Louise Fletcher, as the frog-eating biology 
teacher in "Invaders From Mars," trying to 
help the Martians take over the world.
The baboons that wait by the side of the 
road and throw their bodies against your 
windshield till they break in and eat your 
face in "In the Shadow of Kilimanjaro."
Bill Johnson, as the Leatherface with a 
heart of gold, in "The Texas Chainsaw Mass
acre, Part 2."
Kristy Swanson, as the dead girlfriend in 
"Deadly Friend," that gets brought back to 
life by brain surgery in the garage and goes 
around as a spook robot the rest of the flick, 
killin all the neighbors and grabbin biker 
gangs between the legs.
Tony Fields, as Sammi Curr, the dead 
rocker that talks when you play his records 
backward in "Trick or Treat," for puttin on 
mad-dog leper-face makeup and slimin the 
high school.
BEST FU
Julie Newmar Driving A Killer Chrysler 
Fu in "Steetwalkin."
Yogurt On The Head Fu in "School
Spirit" continued on page D3

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1987The TartanPage D3
Vote For Best
continued from page D2
Laser To The Crotch Fu in "Eliminators." 
Shelley Winters Screaming And Screwing 
Up Her Face Fu in "Delta Force."
Lee Marvin Eyebrow Fu in "Delta Force." 
Jennifer Jason Leigh Taffy Pull Fu in "The 
Hitcher."
Golf Ball Between The Legs Fu in "Loose 
Screws."
Aerosol Can And Match Fu in "Critters." 
Bob Dylan Fu in "Band of the Hand."
Sony Trinitron Fu in "Murphy's Law." 
Dwarf-On-A-Stick Fu in "The Howling II." 
Girlfriend Eating Fu in "Killer Party." 
Orthodontist Fu in "Poltergeist II."
Mutant Green Tomato-Head Fu in "Invad
ers From Mars."
Purple Jugular Vein Throbbing Tumor Fu 
in "Demons."
Watermelon Through The Windshield Fu 
in "Maximum Overdrive."
Pioneer Fu, Sansui Fu, and Fisher Fu in 
"Trick or Treat."
Exploding Bunny Rabbit Fu in "Quiet 
Cool."
Inside-Out Zombie Fu in "Deadtime
Stories."
BEST WRITING
"Streetwalkin": "I love you and so I'm 
going to kill you."
"Eliminators": "But you're  you're  
you're human."
"Delta Force": "American Marines bomb 
my pipple!"
"The Naked Cage": "You think I can't kill 
you! You manipulated Willie!"
"Loose Screws": the theme song "Do the 
Screw."
"Critters": "These things are vicious! 
They've cut our phone! They've cut out our
Actress, Breast Actress, Best Fu and More
Sly Stallone gets a Drive-In nomination for his work on Cobra
power! It's only a matter of time till they get 
in here."
"Band of the Hand": "You can't change the 
people without changing up the environ
ment. We cleaned up the house. We
cleaned up the park. Now we clean up the 
streets. You kids are gonna boogie and that's 
OK."
"Murphy's Law": "You snot-looking 
scrotum-cheek donkey-breath!"
The Howling II": "Do you see that dwarf 
staring at us? Should we follow him?"
"Knights of the City": "I'm gonna eat your 
eyeballs, man!"
"Cobra": "You're a disease and I'm the 
cure."
"Poltergeist II": "Tomorrow everything 
will be all right; we can play some mini
ature golf."
"No Retreat, No Surrender": "Don't worry! 
I'm nobody's lunch!"
"Invaders From Mars": "We don't carry 
loose change into combat, sir."
"Mountaintop Motel Massacre": "Six bod
ies in there? Sorry I got here so late."
"The Fly": "I wont be just another tumor
ous bore, talking about his hair falling out 
and his lost lymph nodes."
"The Toxic Avenger": "I think I'm out of 
control; every day I go out and I mash 
people and I tear them apart."
"Trick or Treat": "No wimps! No false 
metal!"
"Shadow Play": "The taste of you is on my 
tongue again, and I will graze till morning."
"Shadow Play": (double nomination): "I 
am enthralled to the Muses and they are, by 
God, calling."
BEST DIRECTOR
Gordon Hessler, for "Pray For Death."
Peter Manoogian, for "Eliminators."
Menahem Golan, for "Delta Force."
Stephen Herek, for "Critters."
Tobe Hooper, for "Invaders From Mars" 
and "The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, Part 2."
Lamberto Bava (Eyetalian), for "Demons."
David Cronenberg, for "The Fly."
Charles Martin Smith, better known as 
Terry The Toad, for "Trick or Treat."
Jeffrey Dalman, for "Deadtime Stories."
e#***
Our reputation stands for quality haircare and up to the minute styling...all at affordable prices. Our clients know. Just ask one.
TheDESIGNER PERM
ThePRECISION CUTJUST-A-CUT
only $25.00only $13.00only S8.00
Complete with written guarantee
Complete with shampoo and blow style
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at...
MUST HAVE COUPON _J ~SAVE$2.00 I
I on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
J Complete with shampoo & styling J 
ree!S ndaYS!' s
NO
phhotb y Mt N1 NECESSARY
IMarch 13, 1987IJ
VGttATExrccmmsPRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
LEGEND..goes on sale!!!!
FACE IT! By any standardsmagazine reviewers, best buy 
awards, customer satisfaction, Boston 
or word of mouthtwo  ioa sJues'n
loudspeakers have stood 
head and shoulders above 
the competition.
Year after year, the 
Boston Acoustics A100 and 
A70 loudspeakers have 
offered wider, smoother 
frequency response and 
more natural sound than 
much more expensive
speakers from respected manufacturers such as: Bose,
Polk, infinity, JBL and Advent (by Jensen). This high level of
Reg. $390/pr.
Now $299/pr.
Boston Acoustics A7o
Reg. $300/pr.
And $229/pr.
quality makes the Boston 
Acoustics A100 and A70 
Loudspeakers an outstanding 
buy.
NOW...while supplies last
A limited number of quality 
conscience people can buy 
either of these legends at
SIGNIFICANT SAVINGS
opus
I where you leaveI where you leave a little bit smarter
400 smithfield St.. downtown. Pittsburgh 281-3969
3709 forbes ave . 2nd fl . Oakland (across from McDonalds) 621-8585

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanMarch 10,1987
A Disappointing Effort From the Psychedelic Furs
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Record Critic 
Midnight to Midnight 
Psychedelic Furs 
Columbia
Sometimes, sad things can happen when a 
band gets old. In the Psychedelic Furs' case, 
the band in question has gotten lost. Does 
everyone (anyone) remember when they used 
to be a punk band? It's hidden pretty well 
now. Most of the songs on this album 
would be unnoticeable in normal radio 
airplay, and for good reason. The Furs have 
followed most of the modem musical
conventions (there's a saxophone on this 
album, argh!), and, as a result, have come up 
with an album that blends right in. Or 
perhaps the album is supposed to be 
recognizable by the band's new style - 
something like what Sid Vicious would look 
like if he was in Duran Duran. Or maybe 
Richard Butler (vocals) will get them noticed 
by his Madonna impersonation on the cover. 
(Amazing how someone trying to look cool 
can be so photogenically obnoxious. The 
album would look better in brown paper.) 
The band does try, laying down their 
recognizable blur (as in smeared) of guitar 
and bass, the sound that worked so well in 
former albums. Unfortunately, on this al
bum, their sound is polluted by an 
overabundance of keyboards and effects, and 
as a result, most songs never generate
enough interest to warrant further listening. 
(A few notable exceptions are "Shock" and 
the title track, both of which prove that the 
Furs aren't musically dead in the water yet.) 
People who liked the Furs' remake of "Pretty 
in Pink" should like this; eveiyone else 
should be disappointed.
Tartan Record Grade: 2.0
Freedom
Santana
Columbia
Some people never seem to leave. (Can 
you say "continuity"?) Luckily, Carlos 
Santana hasn't left yet. His umteenth album 
to date, Freedom shows his typical guitar 
flash, although it has a few problems. 
Although Carlos writes eloquent lyrics, 
many don't fit into the songs very well, and 
their awkwardness is increased by the voice 
of lead singer Buddy Miles. He just doesn't 
sound like someone that should be singing 
Santana's style of music - his voice is too 
smooth. Another problem is in production. 
Santana's producers need to be kept on a 
shorter leash, or else they create mutations 
like "Veracruz", which must have been a 
decent song before it was gored by Trevor 
Horn blats. For some reason, Carlos Santana 
has decided to emphasize keyboards to a 
greater extent on this album; as a result, the 
songs sound quite different from older San
tana, but are still quite good. Again, the 
main sticking point on this album is in the 
lyrics and their delivery, illustrated by the 
fact that two of the best songs on the album, 
"Love is You" and "Mandela", are both 
instrumentals. However, mediocre Santana is 
better than many groups' best work, so this 
is still a good album. Hopefuly, their next
album will be a return to an emphasis on 
guitar over keyboards; nevertheless, this 
album presents an intriguing change.
Tartan Record Grade: 3.0
Over The Top Soundtrack
Various artists
Columbia
It's always nice to get exactly what you 
expect. This is the consumate Bad Rock 
Soundtrack by Big Names (along with a few 
unknowns who are just along for the ride and 
the record sales). Lots of big names here - 
Sammy Hagar (who brings along the better 
part of Van Halen in the form of Eddie Van 
Halen, who still can't save the song), Robin 
Zander (remember him? used to sing for a 
band called Cheap Trick? remember a band 
called Cheap Trick? neither does anyone 
else.), Asia (after Alpha, nothing should be 
surprising), Eddie Money (who conveniently 
became a Big Name again in time for the 
soundtrack's release), and Kenny Loggins 
(who doesn't seem to do anything but
soundtracks any more). Now, ordinarily 
these guys could come up with something at 
least mildly interesting; unfortunately, this 
album is a special case. Everything on this 
album was written by Giorgio Moroder (who 
also never seems to do anything but 
soundtracks) and Whitlock (who, owing to 
his lack of a first name, is either a Big 
Obscure Name or a nobody). Moroder writes 
fairly generic synthesizer pop; Whitlock 
writes nausiating win-the-fight-because-it'sall-that-matters-and-you'll-be-a-wimp-if-you 
don't-and-then-your-family-will-hate-you-andyoull-have-to-wear-sackcloth-and-sit-on-ashes lyrics that fit the film perfectly. Nasty 
stuff here. But the album does have one 
saving grace. (Fanfare, please.) Yes, in his 
third Stallonetrack appearance, Frank 
Stallone makes another appearance! (Send 
all fan mail to CBS Records.) A real winner 
all around.
Tartan Record Grade: .5 
(which it gets only because the label on 
the album is on straight)
A Closing Reception At Forbes
continued from page D1
make the viewer feel happy and warm
inside.
The show runs from Tuesday, March 
10 and goes through Sunday, March 15. 
Unlike other shows, however there is no 
opening on Tuesday. Rather Lisa and 
Alyssa decided to have a closing reception 
on Saturday, March 14 from 7:00pm to 
9:00pm. Refreshments will be served and
as always you, the public, are invited.
Also, on Thursday, March 12, The 
CMU Writers Guild will be sponsoring a 
reading featuring the work of student 
poets, Jesse Salter and Alan Hakimoglu. 
This will start around seven, and you're 
all invited to this shindig too. So what 
are you waiting for, put down that soda, 
turn off the tube and head on over to the 
show and the reading.
cmtm mu)w

---------------------------------------------------

bel Veoihli shc .aRyl: o bryidge OeocnhhNolwfceieldi brod Focno:e Yel FyCe breyc AyCei
10. So that, in the year of 2006, you can prove to your children that you once had hair on the top of your head.
9. A commemorative spoon from the 16th annual Dixieland Sow-Raiser Extravaganza.
8. Long underwear with candy canes on the rear.
7. Rhinestone studded oven mitts.
6. Raises lopsided desks that necessary one inch, putting an end to annoying wobbling.
5. Because you wouldn't want to miss the four-color, threedimensional centerfold (glasses not included.)
4. Potted shrubbery.
3. 320-pages that capture the most expensive years of your life.
2. Because it'll last longer than a keg of Old Milwaukee, yet costs the same.
1. Because they'll be on sale in Skibo Grey Matter from Wednesday, March 11 through Wednesday, March 18; 10:30am to 4:30pm for just $20. Order your copy then!
bryidge OeocnhhNjFor the Memories Worth Keeping.
Thistle Skibo 46-A 268-2121
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTYProvided by SDC
rMor mJ~orS AVVE$2. .0A$
oPRoCI I~~OR N~RrrMmHHUCSLOOKMG GUYS.
MAT'SITS ArJTBIOsYA KNOW.TRUISM
Inkspots
tnn LLLKGAA Y2'tW $pt2V/ 0 FY'LL F&Y2. VG' rM~ "MB,LLL PHR~J m pm/... ANP MW WOULP 
R~ Moe~ f ,__^
GREAT SCOTT.irs RHJI~THAN I
BOomB,~w /
PAV/P
P~rr~JOo,LACTUALLY... UPON CLOSER EXAMINATION-. MY FEATURES ARENT&EMP ALL HOPE...
"PR. FRANK'S FROG LEGS, FIGS MP
UPorTP~,"~p/err'WHAPPYA THINK ff
HERE'S
MHR wm IHO~rMB,m-GATING LESS, 'THE BROCCOLI-ANP EXERCISE. BROTH ANPI BEAN-BAJhPfET'/
MHRoNHTrEATING LESS, MPeXBRCtSE.
NM.TOO WEI RP. INEEP SOMETHING BASC.
AN INPEXTO PIET BOOKS. 1 FfbURE IF NOTHtHG ELSE, I CANmme arWEIGHT.
WHATCHYA
REAPIN',OPUS?
Comics
Boobtube
EVOLUTION of MANFOR GOOPNESS SAKEI ANI A TYPICAL, OVERWEIGHT AMERICAN... ANP TP LIKE A PIET PLAN WHICH ALLOWS ME 70 REMAIN A LAZY PIG, THANK yOU.
MLO, TP UKB TO HIRE YOU AS MY PIET COACH.
GREAT. LET'S GET YOUR STOMACH SURGICALLY REPUCEP.
EXACTLY/ THAT'S THE TICKET/ NOTHING RAP/CAL/
FINE.LET'S TRY EATING LESS, ANP EXERCISE.
THE SUBJECT USUALLY PIES WITHIN A WEEK, AFTER WHICH SUBSTANTIAL WEIGHT LOSS BEGINS 
IMMEDIATELY.
THE FKST STEP a OUR WEmr-REPUCTTON PROGRAM IS THE SURGICAL REPUCWN OF THE STOMACH. 
ACTUALLY CLOSING OFF MUCH OF THE STOMACH CAVITY.
HOWEVER, FUNPS AFE SHORT FOR SUR&EKY, SO WE/VE GONE TO AN ELASTIC 
BELT. .
REAPY
PVRNG A PERIOP OF pienNG, rrs BOwHJro,rFORT}*SUBJECT TO SHARE TESTIMONY WTTH OTHERS 
IN A SIMILARsmmoN.
WE LOUE YOU WO, OPRAH, BUT YOU'RE 
STILL TOO FATf
PGOPIE, BEFORE ME 
START WPRY, 1 WANT 
YOU ALL TO KNOW 
TVE LOST ANOTHER S/XPOUNPS f

---------------------------------------------------

Human Equationsby D.Dobbs
by Kurt Shaw
:hm~.
Dribble
WW-Vs REB15Q> ft^D 0o5 A 
) "TflOUSAUD WlLfe
/TES-Houe?
Zoger the VortonBob Glickstein
ZO&R'S CORNER 1flehpot, the evil skmb, 
fots /A/ MetMtin fVyy
THE EVIL SPACE AHEbJS 
ORBlT/A/- EARTH!
Bre nedas UaerptB reapi 
'%\ d-F\ug: FW&F-'M'\ 
tL2 It2LD IF THEY HELP 
PEUVER ZOGER TO FLEHPOT!
mP%z%W9fby NameSJMPty CUP THIS p*K)L MD tnSf it 
IM AW fwirruoPELON& K'/Trt A
3*r Of C^RD
XWITH youR namT, J\PHvy/ N^HBiR, AMD * DCactlPTiO^ IA/ SO 
VO*S OR tfss, OF WHY 
Wy sn2Hu pF pl::m, 
elhk jniF, SU/ yoRTOAi.
GiklS  ewTTR THr "DKfAM DATr 
A/b jnilt contCst!
mail etnues iobP 
Sa RTAIM
5K t*0 dpp Dp
ATTM: ZOSfR
by Ed Baranoski
//'s 4 &M/A/ tovs gnac
aUfF b. MocThTiTMe dsahlsR
s dcMrL Tvy wtf V
\ /r^s RCAllv d-eee.-r 
\ FtN<EL&Au*, lo' -\' 
1 rH gEueur FPo'' 
\ THEY UiAUT.
wiaeN sSk of fsSf
IT SH&HT BE
we/noc nTMdcnT2d bOalhlRTHIS is ALBElZT.
onanodb
by Kneep DebendsA Look Within
) T ujas saved b^ wy 
N YCAAm TWUWThvP Ujbi
Hvvw DRk/ svWW/h -for *v>c
ag vU ghlw/y k/vNg vvccTh/ 
-lhg gT2/yvW eyci heavr'iujan^, hCl 
s//cg lkTl raje^ kTg gU/Er
struck._____________________
5ornj hU HlgTB1h yHu OvwP 
bUh sli TkfN/R
Ooc OT5 a si-cJtrt"i. is TUQkh 
i/siVia C/^U com^utrtj resources 
Tor klg ouj^ /gvyTW gai*.
/Ve flees UgU/O 5ecun^.
Oh, we./!, at least 
fll proba 
a c a *4.0 
oui o-^ thiS. s
Jhnnp gey
n rlPOi^n ooaDono vib CTCTDr r---- - -
Oh, uitll, ai least fio**, I Ka^e 
an exo/sc to Uv1Tlh hv T MFmR

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8The TartanMarch 10,1987
Platoon: the First Realistic Look at the Vietnam War
continued from page D1
countless ways: in protest marches, in 
scholarly essays, and in films such as Sk/ 
uTr a1h/P but shTyQ/Wvf/ remains the 
most lucid and compelling attack in the 
idiocy of nuclear genocide.
Lethal Weapon
This action-thriller directed by Richard 
Donner (Sk/ nc/yP sU/cTy) starts out 
promising but craps out badly by the end. 
Danny Glover plays Roger Murtaugh, 
homicide cop and family man glumly facing 
his 50th birthday. Mel Gibson is Riggs, a 
suicidal Vietnam veteran who, when not 
putting his revolver in his mouth or 
arresting felons with unnecessary force, likes 
to stumble around his messy trailer, drinking 
beer and watching TV game shows. Riggs 
is, of course, a stereotype, but Mel Gibson's 
enthusiastic performance is fresh enough to 
overcome this, until the end, where he 
becomes Rambo without the pectorals.
What makes this picture interesting, at 
least in the beginning, is the chemistry 
between Glover and Gibson. The scenes in 
which Glover brings home Riggs to see his 
family are wonderful. But alas, 
characterization calcifies after the first third 
of the movie. The suspenseless plot follows 
the investigation of the death of a druggedout prostitute, which leads our heroes to a 
heroin ring run by Special Forces veterans. 
Dyed-blond Gary Busey provides some 
intermittent fun as a pain-proof hitman 
named Joshua. He gets to deliver nifty Bmovie dialogue, such as, Endo has 
forgotten more ways to inflict pain than 
you'll ever know.
The story is propelled by a series of
improbable coincidences, leading to the 
abduction of Glovers daughter, some 
gratuitous sadomasochism, an overlong and 
not terribly exciting chase, culminating in a 
pointless and not very well directed hand-tohand duel between Gibson and Busey; 
pointless because they have Busey at 
gunpoint when the fight starts. They could 
have blown his head off, but Gibson's 
character somehow needs to prove his 
manhood. What's in doubt though is not his 
manhood, but his sanity. I don't know; this 
picture will probably make a ton of money; 
but as far as I'm concerned, Danny Glover 
put it best when he said in the movie, I'm 
getting too old for this shit.
Platoon
Most of the primary characters in Lethal 
Weapon were Vietnam veterans. The trauma
tic memory of that war seems to be a popculture metaphor fa* the dark, primeval 
things that lurk in our unconscious. World 
War II gave us decades of screen villains in 
the form of Nazis. Vietnam brought us 
psychosis and moral ambiguity.
But serious cinema has consistently 
failed in its attempts to come to grips with 
the Vietnam conflict. Francis Coppola's 
avTWrg/ :ve transplanted Joseph 
Conrad's Heart of Darkness to Southeast 
Asia, with a torpid Marlon Brando 
muttering, trr.ie horror! The horror! The 
film's r .x-conscious visual stylization and 
intellectual pretension got in the way.
Audiences had to wait until YWThvvy for a 
meaningful examinination of the Vietnam 
experience. YWThvvy is not the definitive 
Vietnam movie (such a thing is probably 
not possible). Nor is it a genuinely great
film. But it is a powerful, gripping and 
absolutely convincing look at one of the 
most painful moments in our national 
memory.
Before becoming a successful writer/ 
director, Oliver Stone was an infantry 
soldier, a grunt, just like his on-screen alterego, Chris (Charlie Sheen). Chris' journey 
through the green jungles of Indochina is an 
odyssey of heroism and horror. Amid 
gunfire, explosions and the natural perils of 
the jungle, the vague geopolitical aims of 
the war disappear in the day-to-day struggle
for survival.
Good and evil are embodied in a pair of 
characters: Sergeants Barnes and Elias (Tom 
Berenger and Willem DaFoe). The scar-faced, 
hard-drinking Barnes is a sadistic psycho
path; the pot-smoking Elias is an equally 
competent soldier, but possesses the fatal 
flaw of compassion.
Only in the final voice-over narration 
does YWThvvy resort to self-conscious platit
udes. For the most part, the film is a 
unblinking look into the true heart of 
darkness.
March 9 & 10  8:30 pm 
MOONCHILDREN 
directed by Tony Kelly
c
March 18 
A BILL OF ONE ACTS 
directed by Sam Zanger & Barb Gratz
STUDIO THEATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama
10 LITTLE ATHENS
2103 Murray Avenue  Pittsburgh, PA 15217n422-1330
UM\\ DELIVER^
VMINIMUM $5.00
GYROS
>YlhhgoUQk^g olQQ/gh TyO o/gh0$2.35
MENU
 SHISHKABOBS..........................................................................$2.85 SHISHKABOB DINNER NM rie, of I. pastry).$5.60
 GREEK SALAD...............................................................................$1.1
 ARTICHOKE SALAD....................................................................$2.26
GRAPE LEAVES............................................................................$2.35
HOMMOUS cMcfc .................................................................$1.$5
BABA GHANOGE >. .......................................................$1.55
M etingacogta Thcoosd rLv ywvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvvfVv/
 FALAF1L 6M cWdi pta / Mian ccO pmlty)............................$1.88
 CHEESE A SPINACH PIES......... ...............................................$1.1$
 RICE PUDDING.............................................................................$ .75
 GREEK PASTRIES..........................................................................$ .55
 FRENCH FRIES..............................................................................$ .75
 DRINKS...........................................................................................$ .66
OPEN FROM 11 AM - 11 PM 
DELIVERY TIME 4 PM - 10:30 PM
i
Service Desk Attendants 
Rec Room Attendants
Appl ications are cu r rentl y aval able 
for SUMMER and FALL semesters
!V1 ust be el igible for Wo r k -Study
Applications due Wed nesday 
March 18
For an appl cation or -for f u rther
i nf or mat  o n please stop fcy or contact 
the Housing Office x21 39

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1987The TartanPage D9
Ask Bruce: Where did HAL get his name?
Here are this weeks questions:
1)What was the name of the first DriveIn?
2)In '44A& a sT/ nOrgg/rP where did 
HAL get his name?
Todd Bross, 5615 Woodmont
To answer your first question, Todd, the 
first Drive-In movie theater was called The 
Drive-In Theater. It opened in 1933 in 
Camden, New Jersey on Admiral Wilson 
Blvd. Built by Richard Hollingshead Jr. 
(affectionately called Little Dicky by Joe 
Bob), the first film to be exhibited there was 
l1/ )/eT/R It has since been tom down.
The answer to the second is HAL stands 
for //euristically Programmed ALgorithmic 
Computer. Although the letters are alpha
betically placed one above IBM, the books 
author, Arthur C. Clarke, states that it is 
merely a coincidence.
l)Who played the starring role in * Tg T 
S//yTQ/ //evW1
2)Who was the first to bite it?
Dan Donhan, Box 1110 Mudge
First off I apologize if your name is 
spelled wrong, but I could not read your 
writing. Anyway, Michael Landon played 
the lead role and I will get back to you on 
the second question.
1)Why is Fellinis  AA' called 8 1/2?
2)Just how old is Dick Clark?
3)How many movies did Peter Lorre and 
Sidney Greenstreet appear in together?
Curt Wohleber, Clyde Street
Fellinis  AA' was so named due to the 
fact that the film was his 81/2th film. He 
had made six feature films and collaborated 
on three others, leaving his total before the 
film at 71/2.
Dick Clark is 57. He was bom on 
November 30, 1929.
Lorre and Greenstreet teamed up on eight 
films. The most famous of the films were 
mTgToWTyT (1943) and Sk/ dTWh/g/ JTWvy
(1941). The other six were: *y Sklg nU Hl1/
(1942); )TwQvUyO hv uTyQ/ (1943); Sk/ 
dTgw v1 ulclhlvgP vWWrevvO mTyh//yP 
YTggTQ/ hv dTg/lWW/P and Sk/ mvyglThvg 
all in 1944.
The answer to last weeks trivia question: 
Who owns the sled used in mlhlL/y "/y/W  
Steven Spielberg. He reportedly paid 
$15,000 for it at a charity auction. Congrats 
to all who got the question right, I will be 
contacting you about your prizes.
Ok, now is the moment you have been 
waiting for.... this weeks trivia question...
The Plays the
continued from page D1
hk/ SklyQ is a breezy, entertaining spectacle. 
The script by Frederic Molnar (adapted by 
P.G. Wodehouse) slices the plot into three 
nicely formed acts, each with the proper 
amount of humor and suspenseeven though
What was the first sound film 
(sound on disk)?
The prize this week is one free record 
album, of your choice, from the Tartan col
lection.
Remember you dont have to answer 
questions to win with Ask Bruce, you can 
ask and win as well. Send questions to:
Ask Bruce
Ov The Tartan
Box 17 Carnegie Mellon
Pgh, PA 15213
or call (412) 268-2111
Thing
the play is long, it never gets boring. For 
old fashioned humor and fun at its best, 
check this show out. The play runs until 
March 29 at the Pittsburgh Public Theatre 
located in Allegheny Square. Call the box 
office at 321-9800 for more information.
Each way based on 
round-trip purchase.
This Spring Break, catch a Greyhound" 
to the beach, the mountains or your home
town. For as low as $49.50 one way, you 
and your friends will have a great time when 
you go Greyhound.
fGQ GREYHOUNDAnd leave the driving to us.'leave the driving to us!
Greyhound  3039 W. Liberty Ave. * 351-5555
Yaid Tceield o Cogyw vhgge:e idaweld /j-j vocw aThl Tacvroiej Mh hdrec wyivhaldi oThgRj byvNedi oce lhl dcoliseconge olw :hhw shc dcoCeg hl FceRrhalw ylei /lv  olw hdrec TochoTEaEvoccyeci Becdoyl ceidcyvdyhli oTTgRjsyae yi hle toR noiew hl chalwHdcyT Tacvroie olw yi Cogyw shc weidylodyhli aT dh 1SS 5ygei sch5 Thyld hs hcy:ylj pssec essevdyCe kQuQ>^ drcha:r 0Q'Q>^j pssec gy5ydew Mhd Cogyw yl Bolowoj FceRrhalw ogih hsseci ol algy5ydew 5yNo:e soce shc ,04 noiew hl chalwHdcyT Tacvroie ceidcyvdyhli oTTgRj p u4>^ FceRrhalw ylei govj

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanMarch 10, 1987
Cmon baby, Let Me Show You My Tattoo
By DRUE MILLER
SThTy :/eg FOlhv
Gregg Allman has reemerged after a severalyear vacation from the studio. I'm No 
Angel, released in February by the 
keyboardist-par-excellence of the Aliman 
Brothers Band, shows strong signs of re
covery from a long slump, including a 
marriage to Cher and a record with her. No 
one knows which was a bigger joke, the' 
album or the marriage, but I'm No Angel 
is proof positive that he's on the right track 
again.
All of the songs deal with women: finding 
them, coaxing them, loving them, and get
ting rid of them. Sexist? Yeah, but the lyrics 
aren't blatantly chauvanistic or cocky, and 
Gregg's voice has enough sincerity to get 
away with what he's saying. Besides, if you 
worry about things like that, chances are you 
don't listen to this sort of music much 
anyway.
The title cut, which has gotten a consider
able amount of airplay lately, is somewhat 
the standard 1970's country-rock/stud anthem 
re-vamped for the 80's: Upbeat but not 
delirious music with a moderate dose of 
Gregg's characteristic Ooohh-Aaahhhs and 
Come-on-baabbeees. The lyrics, written by 
Tony Colton and Phil Palmer, are a bit 
inane (Ooo, come on baby/ Come and let 
me show you my tattoo/ Let me drive you 
crazy...), but the music is catchy enough to 
make up for a few lines of bad rhyming.
Things That Might Have Been is reminiscient of the old Allman Brothers Band, both 
in sound and tone. ...There's a damn good 
chance/ That you'll tear my heart apart/ I 
could spend my life or a wonder/ 
About the way things might have been...
Allman's voice is more relaxed on this cut, 
which combined with the laid-back tempo 
and Dan Toler's skilled blues guitar, creates a 
reflective mood gTyg gkcTWhLR
Lead Me On, has a jazz/blues feel to it that 
somehow avoids sounding like every other 
bitch about women and relationships gone 
afoul, possibly because the requisite whining 
of such songs isn't so prevalent here.
Other songs don't show nearly as much 
promise. Anything Goes is flawed by a 
snazzy-but-generic hom section that adds
By ED MAYER
s/lTW hv hk/ SThTy
The Alan Parsons Project is a toaster band. 
They pop out an album every year, and the 
product is consistent, nicely produced, and 
not terribly interesting. iTUOl (Arista) is the 
Project's tenth album since their debut disc *P 
,vovh ten years ago, and it sounds much 
like all of the others: mellow techno-pop, 
lushly arranged and orchestrated, with 
generally vapid lyrics.
iTUOl gets its name from the Catalan 
architect Antonio Gaudi. His masterwork, 
the Sagrada Familia (Holy Family) cathedral 
in Barcelona, remains unfinished since 
Gaudi's death in 1926. What this has to do 
with any of the songs on this record is 
anyone's guess. There's nothing with an 
explicitly architectural theme here, nothing 
that seems to allude to the trials and 
tribulations of Gaudi's life, just a collection 
of routine Pop-Tart tunes.
A lot of the Project's lyrics, on this album
nothing to the song. Can't Keep Running 
suffers from an oppressive, restricting drum 
beat, repetitive bass line, and unimaginative 
melody. The lyrics are redundant, and the 
backing vocals are better suited to a gushy, 
top-40 style singer than to Allman's raspy 
voice. Evidence of Love and Yours for the 
Asking are fairly bland and too polished, 
but still tolerable.
Unquestionably, the best cut is My Cross 
to Bear. Gregg's powerful keyboards, sur
prisingly scarce on most of the other cuts,
especially, seem stuck up in the 
stratosphere. On Standing on Higher 
Ground, Geoff Barradale (of Vitamin Z) 
sings, I see the world/And I'm looking from 
a high place. Eric Woolfson, on Inside 
Looking Out, plaintively croons, To reach 
the stars/A dreamer must fly. It gets worse. 
From Closer to Heaven, we get, Oh, bird 
that is flying so high and so free/Closer to 
heaven than you and me. Perhaps this has 
something to do with Antonio Gaudi being 
some sort of visionary, soaring high above 
his fellow architects, but the air gets a bit 
thin up here and we're starting to get dizzy.
Money Talks tries to be gritty, but ends 
up merely a grating, listless rehash of Pink 
Floyd's Money (from the uTw slO/ v1 hk/ 
dvvy album, which Parsons engineered). A 
lot of the tunes are afflicted with slow, 
lugubrious melodies, approaching what 
might be termed existential elevator music. 
Two of the cuts are listenable. Standing on
create a strong blues backbone for the song 
Toler shows off his wide range of guitar 
abilities, ranging from tight riffs to all-out 
wailin blues jams. Even the percussion and 
bass exhibit more variation and emotion 
than on the other songs.
I'm No Angel is most enjoyable for 
those who like the Allman Brothers. A lot. 
However, if you can deal with sometimespointless lyrics and get over the few bad 
spots, you might find that what the album 
offers more than makes up for what it lacks.
Higher Ground rises above the general 
tepidness. The instrumental Paseo De 
Gracia features some nice Spanish guitar, a 
bit of pumpernickel amid the Wonder Bread.
The Project is a studio band (they never 
tour, though Parsons reports that they are 
planning some sort of multi-media concerttype deal to play in several cities). The 
musicianship is competent, but the artistry 
and creativity all lie in the production: 
Parsons at the board, arranging, mixing, 
layering the tracks until we get a sound that 
is the musical equivalent of individually 
wrapped slices of processed American cheese. 
On previous albums, catchy melodies (Eye 
in the Sky) and even occasionally 
thoughtful lyrics (Games People Play) 
made this palatable, but the Parsons musicmaking machine has become too routinized. 
For years the Project has walked that fine 
line between pleasant and bland, but now 
they've drifted far into the latter. Time to fix 
the toaster, Alan.
Another piece of toast from Alan Parsons
ATTENTION
Corrections to the Spring film calander for AB and SDC films in DH2210
ThursdayApril 2Japanese Animation Festival6
Rashomon8
Ugetsu10
SaturdayApril 4House6,8,10,12
SundayApril 5They Saved Hitler's Brain6
Attack of the Mushroom People8
Plan 9 from Outer Space10,12
ThursdayApril 9Family Game6
New Films/Animation Festival8
Gate of Hell10
FridayApril 10Film Cancelled
SaturdayApril 11Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome6,8,10,12
ThursdayApril 16Throne of Blood6
Boy8:30
Odd Obsession10:30
ThursdayApril 23Woman in the Dunes6
Sandakan 88:30
Yojimbo11
SundayApril 26Little Shop of Horrors6,8,10,12

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1987The TartanPage Dll
Classifieds
== Jobs/Wanted -
Cruise Ship Jobs Domestic & overseas 
now hiring kitchen help, deck hands, maids, 
gift shop sales, summer & career 
opportunities. Call (206) 736-2972, ext.
C355.
A Few Spare Hours ? Receive/forward 
mail from home! Uncle Sam works hard - you 
pocket hundreds honestly! Details, send selfaddressed, stamped envelope. Beduya, Box 
17145, Tucson, AZ 85731.
Learn LISP Programming and get paid 
for it. The CMU Psychology Department is 
conducting an experiment on learning to 
program in Lisp that is open to CMU 
undergraduates. The experiment consists of 
1.5-hour sessions 5 days a week (generally 
evenings and weekends) for 2-3 weeks and 
covers roughly 40% of an introductory Lisp 
course. No prior programming experience is 
required. Pay rate ranges from $3.50/hr - 
$5.50+/hr. For more information, call Albert 
Corbett at x2815 or x3409.
Piano Player. Summer job, play pop and 
rock piano by ear. July, Aug. boy's camp 
located in West. Mass. Write or call: Camp 
Winadu, 5 Glen Lane, Mamaroneck, NY 
10543. 914-381-5983.
Volunteers needed. Western Pa school for 
blind children. Swimming - Monday 
evenigns, Feeding - Monday through
Thursday evenings. Call volunteer
coordinator, 621-0100.
.----- Housing..-...........
Tech House, the brown house next to 
Donner, is looking for Fall 1987 residents.
We are a co-ed, Catholic, co-op. Although 
being Catholic isn't a requirement, interested 
students should feel comfortable living with 
practicing Catholics. Residents take turns 
cooking, share food expenses, and create a 
home-like atmosphere. Interested? Call 268- 
8618.
Mature Non-smoking person to share 
cozy Sq. Hill duplex. $200 + utilities. Short 
time commitment OK. 422-5683. 15 min.
walk - CMU.
Female Roomate, 23-25, 2 bedroom
duplex, Sq. Hill, academic/artist background 
preferred. Quiet. Non-allergic to cats. $225, 
includes all. 521-8383.
= Typing Services ....
Napaloen Office Services: Resumes/
Word Processing/ Writing Services/ Mailing 
List/ Typing/ Pick-up & Delivery/ 
Bookkeeping/ Graphics...FAST 462-7109.
Edit/ Writing/ Ms. Typing by Ph.D
English, legal copy editor, vast exp.,
resonable rates. 521-8383.
Typing Service - term papers, resumes, 
letters, manuscripts, etc. Reasonalble rates. 
422-0599.
= Services =====
MINUTE-MAIDS For all your house
keeping needs. Trained; Insured; Bonded, 
serving Pgh for 6 years. 682-3860.
xJv hk/ o/gh ly cTlOgx
Little Ducklings Day Care, a better way 
to serve you. Ages 1-3. 5447 Bartlett Street, 
Squirrel Hill 521-7272.
Safe, Permanent Hair Removal by
licensed Electrologist. Call Evie Wasosky at 
521-6234 after 5:00 for appointment or FREE 
CONSULTATION.
= Autos =====
76 Ford Granada - 4 door, 6 cyl,
automatic transmission, PS/PB, A/C, AM-FM 
Cassette. Clean, reliable, and seeks new 
home. Call Mark @ 621-6572 days, 683- 
4262 evenings.
= Travel =
VISIT NICARAGUA: Intensive Spanish
courses, family living and community work 
in Esteli. Scholarships available. Apply now 
for 1987 sessions. NIC A, P.O. Box 1409- 
CM, Cambridge, MA 02238. (617) 497-7142.
Spring Break '87 on the Florida beaches. 
LAST CHANCE! Miami Beach/Fort Lauderdale, 
Daytona Beach, Fort Walton Beach, from $87 
for the week! HURRY, call Sunchase Tours 
toll free hot line 1-800-321-5911 for last 
minute information and reservations TODAY!
No Jacket Required, only tanning oil and 
a swimsuit. Spring Break in Daytona Beach 
$84.00 or Club Tropic $79.00. Price includes 
7 nights, daily poolside parties, local 
discounts and all taxes and tips. Call InterCampus Programs at 1-800-433-7747. Travel 
free with 20 or more reservations.
Rates
AC'4 eOg (GR44
'ACz4 eOg (zR44
nf/ z4 eOg (R44
Y/gvyTWP i//wP TyO mWTggl1l/O TOg T/ hTw/y 
or cTlW v ly vU v11l/P swlov z4P vyWrR
/ Ty olWW mWTggl1l/OgP oUh Y/gvyTW TyO 
i//w TOg cUgh o/ /TlOR
THX 1138
continued from page D1
piece might well be seen as a spacefaring version of THXs society with 
its hierarchical authority and 
oppressive technology.
The film may be filled with many a 
technological maarvel but at the end of 
Star Wars proper it is not Luke 
Sky walkers dependence on the 
instruments of his X-winged fighter 
but instead a reliance upon his 
mystical union with all of existence, 
his reliance upon the Force, which 
allows him to succeed. In the last film 
in the series, The Return of the Jedi, 
it is the technologically primitive 
Ewoks who defeat the high technology 
of the Empire. Thus, even in the Star 
Wars series Lucas has a propogated 
vision of humanity which down plays 
the centrality of science and 
technology at best or views their 
consequences as inherently pernicious 
at worst
*1 rvU evUWO Wlw/ hv Thk T QWlcg/ 
v1 HUTg^ vy/ygP 2ylh/O mTcUg 
dlylghr elWW o/ gkvelyQ S 
AAG; Tg T 1UyOTlg/ ly u ''A4 vy 
/Oy/gOTrP dTk AAhkP elhk gkveg 
Th IP TyO AA cR
3 B.R. Shadyside Apt. Large (for 4- 
5), creatively designed, 1 1/2 blocks 
from heart of Walnut Street. Don't 
wait for leftovers: sign lease now for 
September. Summer sublet
available. $500++. 521-9555.
SEX
&REPRODUCTION
And while we're on the subject of 
production, there will be no Tartan 
Production staff meeting tomorrow, 
Wednesday, March 11, 1987 Anno
Domini.
There will, however, be a meeting 
next Wednesday, March 18, 21 Anno 
Brucini. ALL Production staff members 
should be in attendance.
And if youre not on the Production 
staff, you should be ashamed of yourself 
for reading this ad.
COUPON
Large Cheese Pizza 
$3.99 
Free liter of coke
(Ail sandwiches come with rr.elted provolone chrM and are OVEN-BAKEDt
Italian Hoagie...............................4.00
1/i Hoagie...................................2.00
Hot Sausage.................................3.90
Meat Ball.......................................3.90
Cheese Hoagie.............................3.20
Steak Hoagie.:.............................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie. .................4.20
Cold Sub.................................. 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)......................4.70
(R*l Itlin Copicoil with Qroon 
Peppers, Muthroom* 4 thot Spoctt Touch)
*r9$h tottuso. tornito, onion  un*** poetiOdl 
Poppon or Mu*hropm*  Extrm)

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12The TartanMarch 10, 1987
Lllhave5eldi
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, in 
his office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, 
March 11. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his secretary 
at 268-2200 to set up an appointment.
Papyrus, Pens, and Pixels Exhibit. 
The ways that changing technology have 
altered our alphabet. Letterforms have 
changed with the inventions of the steel pen, 
the printing press and the computer. Tools 
of lettermaking shown. Exhibit designed by 
five CM senior graphic designers. Hunt 
Library 4th floor, Fine & Rare Book Room. 
Hours are 8:30 am - 5 pm through May.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy 
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more 
information call 681-3181.
Y Music Society Sets Passamaneck 
Auditions. The audition is open to any 
musician residing or studying within a 150 
mile radius of Pittsburgh who is interested in 
performing in a major recital series. 
Preliminary auditions are on Monday, March 
16. For information on the audition, call 
521-8099.
GALA Rap Session. Think you might be 
gay? Want to talk about it? To supplement 
its regular meetings, the CM Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance is initiating a series of biweekly 
gatherings where you can discuss issues that 
are important to you in a casual and 
sympathetic environment. For details, 
contact GALA via campus mail c/o Skibo 
Information Desk or via computer mail to 
ga0y@tb. All responses are confidential.
Ground Zero: Obsession with an Object,
exhibited by Rich Brown through March 22. 
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, Fifth and 
Shady Avenues. Gallery hours are 10 am - 5 
pm; Tuesday through Saturday, 1 pm - 5 pm; 
Sunday.
Buhl Science Center. Laseriwn.
Journey to an energetic and colorful world 
where blazing lights and magical images 
glow and gyrate to music by rock's most 
spectacular artists in Laserium, presented live 
under the stars at 8 pm and 9:15 pm, 
Thursday through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. 
For current concerts call 321-5554.
"Color nineteen do-it-yourself modules 
explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Batter Up. A new addition to the popular 
new exhibit 'The Right Moves," this original 
interactive video stars two special guests 
from the Pittsburgh Pirates. Step right up 
and try your hand as batting coach at 1 pm -
5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 {mi, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Raceways. A traveling exhibit from the 
Association of Science and Technology 
Centers (ASTC), RACEWAYS is comprised of 
four fascinating games, hands-on experiments 
demonstrating the basic principles of objects 
in motion at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday through 
Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am -
5 pm, Saturday; through May 13.
Observatory. Weather permitting, view
Jupiter, Mars and other wonders visible in the 
night sky at 9 pm - 10:30 pm, Friday.
Pgh. Playhouse Junior Children's 
Theatre. The Elves and the Shoemaker. 
Magic is the order of the day in this classic 
story! The poor shoemaker and his family 
are set upon by the evil Heckla. But the
elves have a few tricks up their sleeves and 
save the day, at 11 am and 2:30 pm, 
Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, through
March 29.
&u L baeiwoR
JL Movies
Easy Rider, starring Peter Fonda, Dennis 
Hopper and Jack Nicholson. Two
motorcyc lists set off across America. A 
compelling, influential film. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm.
Acbnission $2.95.
Airplane. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm 
and midnight. Admission $1.
Lectures
Dept, of Arctitecture Lecture. Gerald 
Allen, Architect, New York, and Adjunct 
Professor of Architecture at CM, speaks at 8 
pm in WeH room 7500.
Workshops
How to make the Most of Your 
Summer. Find answers to questions like: 
How do I look for a summer job? What are 
some of the avenues I should pursue? How do 
I find out what's "out there?" and Who do I 
market myself to? At 4:30 pm in Skibo 
room 13.
Academic Computing Class. Scribe
Math. This class introduces the user to 
Scribe's math formatting capacities. Previous 
Scribe experience is expected. The instructor 
is Chris Thyberg and it is at 3 pm - 5 pm in 
the Media Classroom, Hunt. To register, call 
x5630 or send computer mail to kclu@te.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
/ )AewleiwoR
M M Movies
Birdy, starring Nicolas Cage and Matthew 
Modine. Two young men become friends in 
the 60's then go to war in Vietnam. One is 
obssessed with birds, and their relationship 
makes for a fascinating film. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Dept. of Mechanical Engineering
Guest Lecture. Professor Steve Dubowsky, 
Mechanical Engineering Dept., Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology, speaks on "On the 
Optimal Planning of Robotic Manipulator 
Tasks" at 3:15 pm in the Scaife Hall 
Auditorium. Coffee and donuts are served at 
2:45 pm in the Scaife Hall Lounge.
Dept, of Architecture Seminar. L.D. Astorino 
speaks at 12:30 pm in CFA room 206.
Workshops
Gearing up for Senior Year. To make 
the most of your senior year, start now by 
planning to attend this workshop for 
information on how to prepare for next year's 
job search; plan your graduate school 
calendar, clarify your career goals; utilize 
Career Services effectively; make use of 
alumni/contacts; and develop new job leads. 
At 11:30 am and 4:30 pm in Skibo room 13.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Music
Dept. of Music Senior Recital.
Kathryn Eva, violin, performs at 8 pm in the 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
u 'y braciwoR
A ^ Movies
1900, starring Robert De Niro, Burt 
Lancaster, Gerard DePardieu and Dominque 
Sanda. An engrossing epic about two 
families in Northern Italy at the turn of the 
cenutury. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Notorious, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 [mi. Admission $1.
To Catch a Thief, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 8 pm. Admission $1.
North by Northwest, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 10 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Bioengineering Graduate Seminar.
Dr. Juliana Denekamp, Gray Laboratory, 
Cancer Research Campaign, Middlesex, 
England, speaks on "Tumor Endothelium: A 
Vulnerable Target in Cancer Therapy" at 
12:30 pm in DH 1102. A light lunch is 
served at noon prior to the seminar and a 
question-and-answer session follows.
The Pittsburgh Supercomputing
Center. Gray Lorig, Cray Research, Inc. 
speaks on "Supercomputing Graphics" at 4 
pm in Mellon Institute room 355.
Materials Science and Engineering 
Seminar. Dr. I. K. Lloyd; Materials Science 
and Engineering Dept., University of 
Pittsburgh, speaks on "Effects of Processing 
on Alumina Powders" at 3:30 pm in Benedum 
Hall room 823. Refreshments are served after 
the seminar in room 848.
Workshops
Graduate Admissions. If graduate or
professional school is a consideration in your 
future, take advantage of this resource while 
at Carnegie Mellon. Learn tips on locating 
programs, finding dollars and sorting through 
application procedures. Especially relevant 
for juniors. At 11:30 am in Skibo room 13. 
Career Library Tips. Learn "real world"
information that can help you with your 
career choice. Get inside tips on identifying 
and researching job leads at 5 pm in Warner 
Hall room 19.
Academic Computing Class. Overview
of Basic Spreadsheet Concepts. Diana Bajzek 
lectures on the basic tools and features that 
are found in most spreadsheet programs at 10 
am in the Hunt Concourse Cluster. To 
register call x5630 or send computer mail to 
kclu@te.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language Table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
English Table. The ESL (English as a 
Second Language) center sponsors an English 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
Legend, sponsored by SDC Films.
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight 
Admission $1.
Special Events
Gaming Club Meeting. Open gaming
meeting. Relax with a game - try anything
from Dungeons and Dragons to your favorite 
board game or strategy game. Meeting at l 
pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Check the 
bulletin board at the Skibo information desk. 
For more information call x4217.
*/ / UcywoR
-M*. Movies
 B DalwoR
Movies
Dr. Strangelove, starring George C. 
Scott, Peter Sellers, Sterling Hayden, Peter 
Bull and Slim Pickens. Wonderful black 
comedy classic about a nightmare situation. 
Someone presses the button. Great comic 
performances. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Eclipse Car Fender Test, No. 1-2, 
Electrocuting an Elephant and The 
Iron Horse. The short newsreels reveal 
the early fascination with experimental uses 
of new mechanical apparatus. Ford's film is 
the story of the building of the first 
transcontinental railroad. Carnegie Museum 
of Art Section of Film and Video at 8 pm. 
Admission $3.
Legal Eagles, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
u A DodacwoR
M Movies
Stand By Me, starring Wil Wheaton, River 
Phoenix and Kiefer Sutherland. Beautifully 
directed and acted film about four boys, 
hanging around in the summer of 1959, who 
travel into the woods to see a dead body. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm 
and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Elephant Man. In 1889, John 
Merrick, who was deformed at birth, made his 
living by exhibiting himself in freak shows 
until he was saved by Frederick Treves, a 
London surgeon. This hauntingly beautiful 
depiction of his life features a strong cast 
headed by John Hurt and is ultimately a study 
of genteel behavior. Carnegie Museum of Art 
Section of Film and Video at 8 pm. 
Admission $3. .... , .. . .
Brigadoon, starring Gene Kelly, Van 
Johnson and Cyd Charisse. Fine film 
adaptation of Lemer and Loewe's Broadway 
show about two Americans discovering a 
magical Scottish village. Wonderful musical 
score. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Dune, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at
6 pm, 8:30 pm, and 11 pm. Admission $1.
Music
Dept of Music Concert Philharmonic 
Orchestra conducted by JuanFelipe Orrego 
performs at 8 pm in the Carnegie Music Hall, 
Oakland
u 1 YhlwoR
Movies
Desert Bloom, starring Annabeth Gish, 
JoBeth Williams, Jon Voight and Ellen 
Barkin. Underrated and overlooked film of 
the past year about a young girl growing up 
in Las Vegas in the early 1950's while the 
bomb is being tested in the nearby desert. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Healthful Mondays Lunchtime Seminar. 
Bag a lunch and come over to the Ballroom 
to listen and participate in "Stress 
Management" at 11:30 am.
Special Events
Pittsburgh Dance Council. From the 
streets of Chicago where wild jazz and cool 
blues live, the Hubbard Street Dance 
Company comes blazing across the stage like 
a speeding train packed with high energy and 
excitement at 8 pm in Heinz Hall, Penn Ave. 
For ticket information call 355-0330.
Music
Dept of Music Faculty Recital.
Lopatnikoff Music Homage presented by 
Eugene Phillips and Lena Solamain at 8 pm 
in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan, send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between AY and
acr
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event, 
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and 
phone number of the person submitting the 
entry; this information will be used only to 
confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Send submissions to ACME, 
c/o University relations

---------------------------------------------------

continued from facing page. 
Pi Kappa Alpha was next, competing in the fraternity 
division with Sk/ YlTh/g v1 Y/yLTy/R They opened boarding 
their pirate ship for a voyage full of looting and 
a strong lively rendition of The Pirate King. 
the swashbuckling mode into the next song, featuring 
powerful vocals telling what can be gained with a little 
burglary. The costumes and choreography added to the whole 
pirate experience of the show.
Delta Gamma hit the stage next with selections from Sk/ 
dUgl dTyR Inventive scenery and costumes tossed the crowd 
back to River City and familiarized them with the plight of 
the awful kids that hang out in pool halls, that were 
headed for Trouble. A highlight was opposing melodies 
sung by a barbershop quartet and a group of local gossips 
Pick a Little and Good-Night Ladies. The sisters ended 
with a town wide parade, complete with kazoos and bass drum, 
and the perennial parade tune - Seventy-Six Trombones.
The finely polished act of Sigma Alpha Epsilon followed. 
The brothers and pledges presented Berlin to Broadway, a 
tribute to
towels as flags, with I Sing The Body Electric standing out 
as a highlight of the performance.
The brothers, pledges and little sisters of Delta Tau Delta 
finished the evening with an unusual but exciting performance 
of Queen's Bohemian Rhapsody. A young man is charged 
with a murder, defended in song by his peers, but convicted by 
the staunch jury of his elders. ATA did an excellent job of 
portraying the gap between the young man and his convictors 
through dance and costumes. The backing band was strong and 
each number was performed well, working through the story 
to the ending of Greek Sing 87 - a hauntingly staged hanging 
of the convicted killer.
Sororities
1. AAA
2. KKT
3. KA
4. AT
a. EY
Ykvhvg
Left: Kappa Kappa Gamma strut to the songs of 
D' yO sh//h
Below: Kappa Alpha Theta reaching for the top 
with their selections from JTc/R
Below Left: Sisters of Chi Omega sing that You Cant Get A Man With A Gun.
Bottom: Delta Gamma sings of the Trouble with 
a pool hall in River City.
spiffy in black tuxes. A small but tight background band added to the professionalism. The tunes were 
familiar selections in the traditional sophisticated Berlin style. Each aspect of the performance accentuated 
this style, including choreography and vocals. A slick number with hats and canes just added to an overall 
excellent performance by ZAE.
Theta Xi with selections from iUrg TyO uvWWg competed next in the mixed division. The brothers began 
in Nathan Deroits floating crap game, looking for Lady Luck. Next, the little sisters took the stage and 
shed a few layers in Take Back Your Pearls, their feature number. A quick and clever change to the 
mission featured the whole cast in a the showstopper The Devil Will Drag You Under. Theta Xi ended 
their performance on a high note with a rendition of the title song.
The sisters of Kappa Alpha Theta rounded out the sorority division with selections from JTc/R The dance 
was performed well and worked well with the music. The voices of the sisters mixed nicely on Out Here 
My Own and the dance really came together with Hot Lunch Jam. The last numbers utilized their

---------------------------------------------------

Mixed
1. H
2. riAO
3. ATA
4. ZIT
5. AE
Ykvhv&
Left: The accused member of 2H2u Bohemian 
Rapsody says good-bye to his friends.
Below Left: Pi Lambda Phi brings back ivOg/WW to Carnegie Mellon.
Bottom: Sigma Tau Gamma gets the Chairmans 
Choice for their selections from the dU/h 
skveR
Bottom Right: Sigma Tau Gamma didnt forget Stadtler and Waldorf.
Lgg Trhdhi doNel 
nR LlwR FygeiTye 
olw Fgell Dvraidecj

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1987The TartanPage 13
By LIZ SHERLOCK
s/lTW hv Sk/ SThTy
What do Senators do? Mainly they are 
responsible for voting on the allocation of 
the Student Activities Fee for various 
clubs, but there is so much more that 
Senators can do if they are given the 
opportunity. Although not everyone may 
realize it, individual Senators can be very 
helpful in making life a little bit more 
enjoyable (or less troublesome), for 
students here, at Carnegie Mellon. A 
Senator's main personal objective is to be 
visible to the student body and to hear what 
the students have to say about issues. If 
you wish to talk to an Senator their regular 
office hours are posted on the door of 
Skibo 59.
Many individual complaints do lead to 
action. When it was brought to the 
Senators' attention that students were 
unhappy with the opening and closing 
hours of Hunt Library, these hours were 
changed. Of course, it is not only the big 
issues that a Senator is interested, but the 
little ones as well. When it was reported 
that the clocks in Doherty hall had not 
been working, a Senator brought it before 
the Campus Affairs committee and did 
something about it. They are now being 
fixed. So, the little every day annoyances 
that students may think they have to face 
can be eliminated.
It is necessary for students to go talk
Ddaweld DelodeJ 
/liywe bre ylN
with your Senators about what's 
bothering you. They are in your classes 
and you see them every day. If you're 
not sure where to go or who to talk to 
about a problem one of the Senators 
will be able to find out for you. Before 
you start out on your own to battle a 
problem, (or worse yet, to ignore it) tell 
them! They are there to help you and 
they know to whose attention they 
should bring your concerns and ideas. 
Everyone has the right to have 
themselves be heard and Senators want 
to hear you.
On a more personal level, it is very 
important for students to become more 
interested in what is going on around 
them. Many people feel that things 
cannot be changed. They will complain 
among themselves and never channel 
opinions through the right people. 
Remember that Senators are students 
too and they will understand your 
problems. The next time you're talking 
about something that bothers you with 
a group of students, make sure one of 
them is a Student Senator.
Any questions or comments? Call 
x2115, come by Skibo 59, or attend a 
Senate meeting and TALK TO A 
SENATOR!! Dont forget to watch this 
space every week for more information 
about Student Senate and what it can do 
for you...
Readers Digest psseci 
Fcoldi Dh brod Oha Bol 
faciae Ohac "haclogyidyv 
/ldeceidi
By KRISTEN HENLY
s/lTW hv Sk/ SThTy
Hands-on experience is certainly a 
valuable strategy for learning. Particularly in 
recent years, gathering experience by 
immersing oneself in a studied activity is 
stressed by schools. Internship for credit and 
study abroad programs are two examples. 
One often hears, Theres nothing like handson experience and many college students 
lode for internships and career related jobs as 
their summer employment. Readers Digest 
Foundation has captured this spirit with their 
Journalism Travel/Research Grants Program, 
which originated in 1955. Readers Digest 
founder DeWitt Wallace was conversing with 
a University of Georgia journalism student 
who was complaining about the restrictions 
cost of travel place on a student trying to 
expand his field of writing.
DeWitt Wallace saw the value of field 
reporting and the subsequent difficulty this 
places on students. Since that conversation, 
the Foundation has awarded $1.8 million to 
159 schools nationwide. The grants range 
from $1,000 to $2,000. The individual 
departments then dispense the money in 
$100 increments to many students. This 
way, the program is far-reaching and helps 
not only the individual students but the 
scope of the school papers as well.
Any school may apply for these grants by 
formulating a thorough report of their intent 
and needs. This is then submitted to the 
Foundation who makes its decision. This 
year forty-nine schools are represented
Stanford University in California to Bowling 
Green State University in Ohio. The 
program appears not to discriminate between 
renowned journalism programs and lesser 
known ones. According to George V. 
Greene, President of the Readers Digest 
Foundation and Chairman and Chief 
Executive Officer of Readers Digest, There 
is no substitute for first-hand experience in 
learning the essential skills of a professional 
journalist. The value of this extends to 
lesser universities as well.
Since the cut of journalism itself is 
dependent on the ability to assimilate 
cultural differences and gather experiences 
through communication, this program helps 
to expose budding journalists to the crux of 
their craft. Two examples of funded articles 
are an account of what California is doing to 
cope with its rapidly rising prison 
population, written by a Stanford journalism 
student and an article on a teacher shortage in 
Iowas public schools written by a Drake 
University student In both these cases, the 
funds helped bring public occurences to the 
attention of the private and often insular 
institutions. The funds can also be used to 
edify a campus by exposing them to a story 
on a topic they would not normally hear of. 
For example, a graduate student at MSU 
wrote a story titled Gravestone Rubby: An 
Unconventional Search for History 
featuring a Michigan librarian. Clearly, the 
uses of these grants are vast and the 
enhancements valuable.
with the band FUTUREmn
Saturday, MARch14 0
ballroom 9 00 g100 donation goes to Mb

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Psshcdi dh /5TchCe xaogydR hs yse Drht fch5yie
Most Carnegie Mellon students will tell you that the quality of life on this campus is substandard at best.
The rigorous academic environment breeds stress,
but we have few opportunits to vent tension. The
poor quality of life here have given many students the
impression that the administration doesn't care about
them.
The administration is finally aware of these 
problems and is making admirable efforts to improve 
the quality of life. This should have the additional 
advantage of improving the administration's image 
on campus.
President Cyert stands firm in his conviction that the 
academic standards of the university should not be 
compromised, so the effort to upgrade student life 
will not include any tempering of the academic 
demands. It will include improvement of facilities 
and attempts to change some of the prevalent attitudes 
on campus.
The proposed University Center, which will give 
the students better recreation facilities and more 
attractive and useful meeting space than Skibo, 
constitutes the focal point of the attempt to give better 
facilities to students. Unfortunately, none of us who 
are currently students will be able to reap the benefits 
of this project during our undergraduate r o here. 
But the administration is taking other initiatives that 
will make Carnegie Mellon a more livable place for 
those of us who are students now.
Many students cite the distance between students 
and faculty as one of the disadvantages of this 
university. The President's Student Advisory 
Council identified the departments as the place to 
foster more gratifying relationships between these 
two groups. The happy hours sponsored by several 
departments enjoy good turnout and provide an 
opportunity for students and professors to step 
outside of the hierarchical structure of the classroom 
and enjoy a more casual situation. Departments that 
do not currently sponsor any analogous functions 
should catch up.
Making substantive changes in the curriculum is out 
of the question, but Cyert and other administrative 
figures recognize that the academic environment 
could be improved without radically altering the 
course work. One change that could combat 
classroom pressure without compromising the quality 
would be to make student advisory committees a 
requirement for all departments. The once-a-semester 
Faculty/Course Evaluation forms can only give vague 
impressions of how a class is received by 
students. These forms are not an adequate forum for 
a comprehensive examination of courses. SAC's 
would allow a fine-tuning of classes, providing 
department heads with a mechanism with which to 
gauge student opinion. It's anybody's guess how 
departments that don't have SAC's evaluate their 
curricula with regards to student opinion.
These changes may not turn the university into a 
day in the park overnight, but they indicate a healthy 
interest in the student quality of life from the 
administration.
-hrecdR ogg kkuS 
Meewi AhcN
Doherty Hall 2210 is one of the most used and the 
most dilapidated lecture halls on campus. There's 
probably a direct correlation there. This hall is barely 
fit for Cognitive Processes lectures and definitely 
doesn't cut it for movies. The movie projectors don't 
seem to be the greatest either. If the administration 
really wants to improve the quality of life here, give 
us decent facilities for the weekend films.
Letters:
Delodhc etyi "aidysyei -evyiyhl dh 
Uceeme Ddaweld (lyhl Ualwi
Editor:
On March 3, 1987, the Student 
Senate voted to suspend the 
funding of The Student Union 
pending an investigation of 
allegations that a column printed 
in Volume 2, Number 8 of The 
Student Union, February 25, 1987, 
was in violation of copyright laws. 
The column, entitled "The 1972 
ABM Treaty: 2 Ways to Read Key 
Parts," was photocopied from The 
New York Times without 
acknowledgement or permission.
Whether an actual infringement 
of copyright occured is a vague 
point presently being investigated 
by Senate. The column is clearly 
photocopied from The New York 
Times; however, Senator 
Greenberg, speaking for The 
Student Union, claimed that the 
ABM Treatyexcerpts from which 
make up half of the columnis in 
the public domain and not subject 
to copyright. This was argued by 
Senator David Levy and myself, 
who stated that the column did not 
entirely consist of excerpts from 
the ABM Treaty and that, 
regardless of the nature of the 
work, the form is protected by 
copyrightthat regardless of the 
copyright status of the content, the 
physical form of the article is 
copyrighted.
The arguments that centered on 
this issue, though, ignored the 
primary reason for suspending 
funding for The Student Union. 
Namely, should action be brought 
against The Student Union, there 
exists the very real possibility that 
the Student Senate, and indeed the 
entire student body of Carnegie 
Mellon, would be forced to pay 
damages.
Due to The Student Union's 
status as a Service Organization, 
receiving subsidies from Student 
Senate consisting of Activities Fee 
Funds, it is believed that the 
Activities Fee is in effect an 
"asset" of The Student Union 
which would be subject to seizure 
in the event of judgment against 
The Student Union. This means 
any amount of damages awarded 
to The New York Times in the 
event of a successful lawsuit would 
come out of the Activits Fee.
Whether this is indeed true is,
like the question of whether 
copyright laws were indeed 
violated, presently being 
investigated. At this time, though, 
Student Senate feels there is 
sufficient reason to believe that 
both are true to warrant suspending 
funding of The Student Union. 
This action is not intended solely 
to indicate our displeasure with 
The Student Unionrather, it is 
necessary to protect the student 
body at large. Following the 
suspension of funding, the Student 
Senate and the student body are not 
in a position where they are liable 
to lose Activities Fee Funds due to 
any hypothetical future violations 
on the part of The Student Union.
It is my feeling as a Senator that 
I would be abdicating my 
responsibiltity to my constituency 
if I did not take this action to 
safeguard the Activities Fee.
I am not an enemy of The 
Student Union. I feel that an 
alternative viewpoint is beneficial 
to Carnegie Mellon; in fact, a 
work of mine has been published 
in The Student Union. I do not 
particularly wish to see The 
Student Union destroyed as a 
newspaper, and I do not feel Senate
is engaging in a "witch hunt". I do 
feel, though, that a certain level of 
responsibility is required in 
publishing a newspaper, and that 
this responsibilty includes 
knowledge and obedience of 
copyright laws.
I am personally working to find 
out if the column printed by The 
Student Union was indeed in 
violation of coyright laws, and if 
the Activities Fee is indeed subject 
to seizure in the event of legal 
action. Should this turn out to not 
be the case, I will lobby just as 
hard to have The Student Union's 
funding reinstated as I did to have 
it suspended. At the March 3 
meeting, though, Iand a 
majority of Senatewas 
sufficiently convinced of the truth 
of both these points to warrant 
suspension of The Student Union's 
funding.
The matter of funding for The 
Student Union will almost 
certainly be brought up again at 
the March 10 meeting of Student 
Senate. The meeting is open to the 
public.
David G. Lewis
Senior, EE/Epp 
Senator,CIT
Ddaweld Bcydyvymei 
bocdol Vedcovdyhl
Editor:
I was extremely upset to read 
your retraction of February 17th's 
article concerning the probable rape 
of a CMU student. Once again the 
college hides from the issue of 
campus violence! I, for one, am 
damn tired of living on a campus 
which is more concerned with the 
image of a single fraternity than 
with the protection of its students. 
Rape doesn't just happen to 
floozies who ask for it. It 
happens to girlfriends, sisters, 
mothers, daughters; and it could 
also happen to your boyfriend, 
your best friend, your brother, 
because men are raped, too  
usually by other men, and they 
usually dont report it but IT 
HAPPENS; unpursued rapist(s) are 
free to act again and the students 
may not be extra careful if they are 
not aware of the danger.
You called that article 
erroneous. Erroneous means 
wrong. Did the girl retract her 
claim to being raped? I doubt it. 
More likely the fraternity at which 
the rape occured (and no, I do not 
blame ATO) and the officials on 
this campus (who I do blame for 
doing nothing to warn us students 
of any of the rapes which have 
occured on this campus over the 
years) bullied one or several of The 
Tartan's reporters into printing a 
retraction. Print my name. They 
can bully me all they want.
Kathleen Summers
FOlhvNg :vh/& Sk/ lylO/yh lg 
vy 1lW/ elhk hk/ mTcUg YvWl/ 
TyO hk/ YlhhgoUQk YvWl/ Tg vy 
TWW/Q/O T/R Sk/ 1/cTW/ student 
lyfvWf/O kTg O/lO/O yvh hv /gg 
kTQ/gR

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1987The TartanPage 15
Smith Says Courage Means Running
By PAUL SMITH
There's a poem Im very fond of, by a 
British poet, William Empson, called 
"Courage Means Running." Actually, it's 
the title that I appreciate most, but there are 
some other good bitslike the reminder that 
"No purpose, view or song 
but is weak if without the 
ballast of fear."
Quite accidentally, I was 
thinking about this poem 
last week while waiting in 
front of the television to 
COlUmn hear how Ronald Reagan 
was going to address all the criticisms of the 
Tower Report. I was wondering if he was 
going to have the courage that comes from
fear the courage to run, the fear of having 
got himself into an inexcusable situation.
As it turned out, of course, Ronnie was no 
more than minimally courageous. He knows 
only how to be macho, how to take his 
lumps, how to forget his mistakes, and so 
on. The same old Ronaldseemingly 
unaware of what all the fuss is about. It was 
totally boring to see him apologize without 
apologizing, to see him force a smile when 
he should have been admitting guilt, not 
error. It was pathetic to hear this old, 
debilitated man claim that he still couldn't 
remember crucial details of the Iran affair. It 
was miserable to listen to him saying that 
he knew he was right but only the facts 
proved him wrong. And it was offensive to
Conservative Corner:Turmoil in South Africa
By THOMAS HEIM and 
AARON SOLOMON
South Africa has been the object of 
international criticism as it continues its 
policies of Apartheid. The government of 
South Africa recognizes the revulsion with 
which the rest of the world 
views their system of 
segregation and discrim
ination. Many outsiders look 
to divestment, economic 
sanctions, and support of the African 
National Congress (ANC) as the steps to 
eliminate South Africa's problems. These 
steps, if they continue, may one day prove 
to be among the most backward that 
America has ever taken.
President Botha has promised reforms, and 
acted on several of these in months past. 
Today, he finds himself unable to reveal new 
reforms, since every initiative of his 
government is greeted with an immediate 
outbreak of ANC-promoted violence, 
prompting the need for police control, 
leading to further violence. The ANC, 
instead of working with these reforms, has 
encouraged violence against every nonrevolutionary element in South Africa. The 
ANC is a radical communist organization 
that portrays themselves as the sole group 
that has the capability of liberating the 
South African blacks from Apartheid. The 
ANC supports sanctions and divestment of 
all kinds in South Africa. The withdrawl of 
international support for the South African 
economy, particularly American support, 
may eventually lead to a revolution due to 
the certain devastation of South Africa as an 
industrial nation, after which the ANC hopes 
to gain power.
This economic pressure is beginning to 
multiply as we see many Americans, 
particularly the starry-eyed idealistic college 
students, demanding that their universities 
sell off stock in companies that do business 
in South Africa. In addition they encourage 
our government to impose economic 
sanctions. Just like the students suspected, 
this forces American companies to leave 
South Africa, and sell their operations for a 
low price to the South Africans. The 
resulting loss of American competition for 
labor in South Africa means that those 
blacks who have not lost their jobs in this 
financial turbulence must now work for the 
same company run by South Africans who 
are not obliged to adhere to anything 
resembling the Sullivan Principles. The 
ANC encourages these measures in the hope 
of fostering a revolution.
The African National Congress is a 
communist backed group that has incited a 
large amount of violence within South 
Africa. The ANC receives an estimated $100 
million in military aid from the communists 
every year. The USSR funds the ANC in the 
hope that their endeavors will topple the 
present government. The Soviet Union
recognizes that South Africa is a strategic 
and key nation to the United States, and the 
free world in general. South Africa produces 
79% of the worlds platinum, while the rest 
(20%) of the worlds supply comes from a 
country that the USA competes with for 
precious commoditiesthe Soviet Union. In 
addition, combining South African and 
Soviet production, we find that 80% of the 
world's vanadium (used in jet airplanes and 
rockets), 75% of the worlds gold 
production, 90% of the worlds chromium, 
and 77% of the worlds manganese come 
from these two places. All these precious 
metals are /gg/yhlTW to U.S. industries, 
which rely almost exclusively on South 
Africa for their uninterrupted supply.
A communist controlled South Africa 
would leave many United States industries 
paralyzed when precious metal exports 
ceased. For this reason, Russia and other 
communist sympathizers encourage 
sanctions, divestment, and active support for 
the ANC and other violent groups in South 
Africa, with the hope of eventually 
overthrowing the present government. Not 
only would this revolution be a tragedy for 
all South Africans, who would never see the 
promise of freedom, but it would also be 
devastating to Americans who would watch 
their precious metal stockpiles dwindle.
Divestment, sanctions, and the ANC are all 
the wrong avenues to take in ending 
Apartheid in South Africa. Allowing 
American competition for labor will ensure 
strong economic improvements for all South 
Africans, especially blacks. Allowing free 
trade with South Africa will cause a decrease 
in the violence that is so often found in 
economically troubled areas, and thus reduce 
the need for police supervision of the nation. 
Rapidly and peacefully, reforms can be 
initiated, and Apartheid will become a thing 
of the past. Botha's reforms are waiting for 
the peace within the country that is 
necessary for enactment of change. These 
reforms will foster an end to discrimination 
as the South African newspapers, 
teachers, ministers, and leaders work together 
to change the attitude of all the people.
A communist revolution in South Africa 
will only benefit the Soviet Union. South 
Africans, Americans, and every country that 
relies on the United States for trade, 
protection, and deterrence against Soviet 
aggression will suffer. The ANC is working 
to blind Americans, and especially American 
youth as to their real intentions. We must 
recognize this and support the South African 
government, whether it be headed by 
President Botha or a new President, (who 
may be elected in the recently announced 
May elections). Apartheid is no longer 
accepted by anyone other than the most 
staunch traditionalist in South Africa, and it 
is the hope of the rest of the country, and the 
free world for peaceful change as this racist 
system is abolished.
see how he tried to maintain his merely 
macho image while saying nothing that 
most of us didn't already think obvious-that, 
yes, as President he lg responsible for 
wrongdoing "on his watch."
The bizarre thing about his "apology" is 
that, even though he's admitted 
responsibility, nobody seems about to point 
out to him the logical next step: resignation. 
In other kinds of democracylike a 
parliamentary onehe would have been 
forced to stand down if he didnt have the 
courage to run.
The column I did last week on CMU's 
NeXT investment got mentioned inof all 
placesThe Des Moines Register. Fame 
indeed. But the four columns I've written for 
The Tartan this semester havent provoked 
much public reaction or debate (which is 
certainly what they wore intended to do). 
What people think about the columns or the 
issues touched upon seems to have been 
expressed on a very unpublicindeed, quite 
uncivic level. I have had various reports 
from friends and colleagues that some 
members of the campus community have 
been upset or annoyed; and that others have 
been amused or grateful. But importantly, 
not much of the commentary has been done 
in public view. So, I'm very happy that last 
week's Tartan carried a rebuttal of my 
"venture capital" column by Senior VP 
Crecine.
I had very deliberately cast that column in
the form of !U/ghlvyg about CMUs 
investment and so I can hardly complain 
now that that Mr. Crecine has answered 
some of them. He didn't by any means 
answer all of my questions or address my 
main points, and I still disagree with a lot of 
his arguments and assumptions-for instance, 
his apparent confidence that CMUs "vision" 
for the future is as viable or even as moral as 
the administration seems to think it is (for 
further, related comment, see my column 
"CMU's Artificial Revolution" in Focus 
December 86). But thats matter for another 
day's debate (or column).
For the moment, I owe Senior VP Crecine 
an apology. What he read as "innuendoes" 
about his own personal ambitions and so on, 
were definitely out of place and, as he points 
out in his letter, not based on any credible 
knowledge of him or his motivations.
I hope that, by the time this column 
appears, I shall have offered this apology to 
Mr. Crecine in person. (I tried to get hold of 
him this week but, as on previous occasions 
when I've called, he wasn't available.) The 
apology is made in good faith, to be sure. 
But that doesn't prevent me hoping that he 
and others on campus will recognise that, far 
from wanting to "tear down" CMU's sense 
of community, I think of my columns as 
helping to enhance it by encouraging 
something like democratic participation (a 
prerequisite of which is, of course, the free 
expression of ideas, opinions and questions). 
Community isn't something you can just 
impose ready-made on people; it has to be 
something altogether more vital than that.
bre /55hcogydR hs Uoyc bcowe
By TOM ISENBERG
There has been quite a lot of talk recently 
about ' fair trade" practices. In his State of 
the Union address, President Reagan put the 
bug in Congress' ear that we should 
encourage "fair trade," presumably through 
legislation. "Fair trade," of 
course, is just a more 
palatable euphemism for 
protectionism, the attitude 
that has helped bring several 
of Americas industries to its knees in recent 
years. If it's Congress' role to encourage 
anything, it should encourage the
legalization of free trade, the only really
"fair" trade.
Fair to whom? Fair to all honest workers.
If we really value freedom in our private 
lives then we also value the freedom that 
comes when we individuals choose to trade 
and transact with each other. Corporations, 
industries, supermarkets, boutiques, 
universities, and churches are all collections 
of individuals who choose to have 
something to do with each other. Ideally, 
they are exercising free trade, in the sense 
that their peaceful and honest relationships 
are not coerced or abridged by force. 
Protectionism, on the other hand, makes it 
illegal for certain individuals to trade with 
each other as they themselves would agree 
to.
"Fair trade" is a continued attempt to favor 
continued on page 16
The Tartan
Albrecht T. Powell
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew Robitshek
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerDave LevyBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Don GambleGlenn SchusterAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawRuss SeligmanLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAd Manager
Pam HornMary MurphyOlve Peersen
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerContributing Editor
John FriedmannJack Poller
Contributing EditorContributing Editor
The Tartan is a student newspaper of Carnegie Melton 
University. It is a weekly newspaper, published each 
Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters by students 
at no cost to members of the university community. It is 
printed by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning of the opinion 
section is the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Cokimna are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or 
staff Letter* to the Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the University 
community.
A letter intended for publication must be oigned end 
include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification Names win be withheld upon request. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter 
or column. Copyright 1967 by The Tartan. The editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from pubKcafcor any 
copy it deems unfit tor publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412)268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan /Box 17/Carnegie Melton
University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. AN nghts reserved
Library of Congress ISSN : 0690-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMarch 10, 1987
Letters Cont.:
Financial Aid Reexamined
Editor:
We would like to respond to the letter 
entitled Cuts in Financial Aid May Lower 
Tuition in U.S. that appeared in last week's 
Tartan.
First of all, the argument presented by 
Heim and Solomon is based on the idealized 
world of Intro to Economics. Theoretically, 
Heim and Solomon are correct in their 
assumption that subsidizing education raises 
tuition costs. They ignore, however, the fact 
that subsidies have been steadily going down 
while tuition has been steadily going up, 
which proves that their initial assumption is 
invalid.
If Heim and Solomon had done their 
economic analysis correctly, they would 
have realized that the only way to justify a 
publicly-funded subsidy is to show that the 
subsidy benefits society as a whole, 
including those people who do not receive 
the subsidy. It is a matter of personal 
opinion whether or not education benefits 
society as a whole. Heim and Solomon, 
however, encourage those who cannot afford 
to pay the high tuition of private schools to 
attend night school, so they clearly view 
education as a necessity, not as a luxury.
They must, therefore, believe that the 
education of talented individuals benefits our 
nation, and should then be whole-heartedly 
in favor of subsidizing education.
Heim and Solomon say that some state 
colleges provide a high standard of education 
for a substantially lower cost than a private 
institution whose standard may be no 
higher. We disagree adamantly with this 
point. Nowhere can a student receive the 
same quality education in the areas of 
computer science, architecture, cognitive 
psychology, art, and engineering as can be 
received at CMU. The only other 
institutions that are comparable in these 
areas are in the same price range as CMU.
Finally, Secretary of Education William 
Bennett, as is his duty, lobbies for the 
improvement of education in the United 
States and does not institute across-the-board 
cuts in his own department, as was implied 
by Heim and Solomon. This job is reserved 
for President Reagan and his staff in the 
Office of Management and Budget.
Michael Wertheim 
Frank Boscoe
Ddaweldi Broggel:e Pwydhcyog
Editor:
In response to the editorial Move the 
Fraternities in the March 3 edition of The 
Tartan, admittedly, there is a shortage of 
parking and living space on this campus. 
Suggesting that the fraternity houses be used 
for student housing instead of their current 
use, student housing, is rather insipid. 
Maybe fraternity members aren't students?
About the neighborhood relations 
problems: Clyde Street has nothing to do 
with any noise problems created by the 
fraternities, so why mention it? As for 
Devon Road, the residents recently sent the 
fraternities a very nice letter about how 
pleased they were that there was so little 
disturbance of late.
Moving out from university housing also 
provides the problem of the recognition of 
the fraternities. Under the university policy,
the members of a Greek Letter Organization 
must live on campus in order to be 
considered a fraternity, which includes rights 
to participate in Carnival and Homecoming 
events.
The editor's supposition that the amount of 
a fraternity lease is enough to pay the 
mortgage on a house of significant size is 
ridiculous. Just try to find a house in the 
area capable of supporting forty people with 
a mortgage lower than the current lease, let 
alone twelve. This quest becomes even more 
ludicrous when looking for such mansions 
in Shadyside or Squirrel Hill. Finding 
insurance beyond the universitys own 
policy which now covers the fraternities 
would be prohibitively expensive. Upkeep 
for the fraternities, which is marginally 
covered by Housing, would be gone.
Donavan Dennis and Jeffrey Diehl
(lyhl Ye5nec -yivaiiei 
Bhldcovd fchnge5i
Editor:
In response to the Tartan article titled 
Contract Negotiations Continue, you have 
really been misinformed about Carnegie 
Mellon contract negotiations with Local 29 
Union employees. The sad truth of the 
matter is that Carnegie Mellon's negotiators 
have been very reluctant to talk 
constructively with the Union since the 
meetings began in November of 1986. 
Twice upon the Union's unanimous rejection 
they have delayed setting up meetings to 
try and come to terms with the issues that 
have caused Local 29 Union to work under 
the provisions of the old contract.
What hinders the talks is a combination of 
attitudes which is hardly connected to the 
Union staff, but which continually points to 
the management of Physical Plant. First, 
they fail to read the first paragraph of the 
contract, which states that the members are 
employees of the University. Physical 
Plant management has been justifying the 
cost of running the university at a minimum 
cost by cutting comers, or dragging their feet 
since the new Director of Facilities and 
Administration worked his way up from 
GSIA. This gentleman's mechanical 
experience could fit on the head of a pin, he 
asks questions of his plant staff, who bail 
him out and then he's gone, applauded by his
peers, and with hardly a sign of appreciation 
to the mechanics. How pompous! Lets give 
him a z raise over 3 years.
Secondly, on attitudes. The Vice President 
of Business Affairs, who wrote to The 
Tartan that the issues surrounding 
negotiations were normally a private affair 
and those concerned were well informed, 
might be a little stunned to know that the 
gist of the first negotiations began with a 
point by the Personnel Director, that the 
university was not crying poor (that is, the 
university is operating in the black) but that 
the national trend is for concessions by the 
unions, and CMU is merely following suit. 
Lisa Wiedman was also quoted in another 
newspaper as saying that she cited a ninemonth long dispute by Local 29 Union 
members at the University of Pittsburgh. 
The students who are the benefactors of the 
Union's services want performance, not 
excuses, which is what late work order 
requests provide.
The stigma of the university feeling that 
the Union is seperate from the rest of 
Carnegie Mellon staff is not something that 
management has tried to change.
Carnegie Mellon service employees hope 
to grow with the university in pride and 
performance.
A proud member of Local 29 and 
Carnegie Mellon University.
Uoyc bcowe fhgyvR Bcydyvymew
continued from page 15
workers in inefficient American industries, 
not over foreigners, but over workers in 
efficient American industries. That has 
proved disastrous for many folks, 
particularly some Pittsburghers. The 
economy works best when people spend and 
invest their money in ways that are in their 
own best interest. Companies learn how to 
really be more productive, workers get 
employed, and new companies spring up like 
mushrooms on a politician's podium.
Politicians who favor protectionist 
measures are concerned about seducing 
voting blocs; that's how the "fair trade" 
game is played. You promise individuals X, 
Y, and Z that their standard of living will 
improve because you will prevent 
individuals A, B, and C from trading freely 
and honestly. Of course, it's never put that 
bluntly. The speeches usually involve throw
away phrases like "making America more 
competitive."
Phrases like this hide the fact that it is 
Americans, first and foremost, who suffer in 
protectionist games. At one level, 
consumers have to pay higher prices for both 
domestic junk and the imports they desire. 
On a deeper level, American workers lose 
their jobs as their companies' operating costs 
increase due to the artificially high cost (or 
unavailibility) of the foreign goods they use.
A prime example is the loss of 
manufacturing jobs in the computer 
industry. Congress made it illegal for 
American companies to buy foreign micro
chips at an "unfairly low" price, so 
companies trying to stay competitive were 
forced to have entire circuit boards 
manufactured overseas. After all, it isn't yet 
illegal to buy foreign micro-chips already
assembled on foreign circuit boards at an 
unfairly low price, but we can be sure that 
the politicians and bureaucrats will catch on.
The monstrous deficit is often invoked to 
justify the immorality of preventing free and 
open trade. The connection makes little 
economic sense since trading green paper 
with pictures of dead people for VCRs, 
micro-chips, and Smurf lunchboxes is 
always a good deal. Those U.S. dollars go 
to American distributors, to be sure, but also 
to foreigners. That's supposed to be bad. 
But what happens with those dollars? Since 
Koreans can't use U.S. bills in their poker 
games and tanning salons, they have to 
exchange the currency on foreign-exchange 
markets, or invest in U.S. business 
enterprises, or buy U.S. imports. All these 
transactions involve U.S. dollars coming 
back home to benefit Americans.
Then why are some politicians winning 
votes with their misrepresentations? 
Because some Americans know they will 
benefit (although in the short run) by 
sacrificing other Americans' right to trade 
freely and honestly, and they are organized to 
deliver the votes that politicians want. Their 
artificial "competitiveness" will be revealed 
as the subsidized addiction it is when 
taxpayers fork over more of their paychecks 
each year, to say nothing of the disasters 
which eventually befall industries that've 
gotten fat and lethargic knowing that as long 
as they deliver the votes, their share of the 
market will be protected by Federal force.
The purpose of Congress used to be to 
protect the rights of citizens, not thwart 
them. "Fair trade" is an insult to all workers 
who want to earn the fruits of their own 
labor, not another's.
Feminism and Religion Cannot Be Reconciled?
Editor:
In my capacity as mediator at the 
discussion "Women and Religion" on 
February 19, a discussion centered around 
peoples feelings about whether feminism 
and Christian ideology can be reconciled, I 
felt that it would have been unproductive for 
me to propound my own point of view. I 
would like, therefore, to take this 
opportunity to discuss some questionable 
assertions that were made and to explain why 
I think it is so important to acknowledge the 
inconsistencies between the writings, 
traditions, and institutions of JudeoChristian religion and a desire for feminist 
change.
First, I do not wish to argue with anyone's 
faith. I would not wish anyone to argue with 
mine, any more than I would wish them to 
impose their's upon me. I do, however, want 
to address the following issues.
It was argued that one who has not studied 
the Bible carefully possesses a less valid 
opinion of sexism in Christianity than one 
who has. Certainly: the more knowledge one 
possesses about something, the more 
ly1vc/O is one's opinion. Taking the 
original argument further, Mary Daly  the 
author of )/rvyO ivO hk/ JThk/ TyO 
SveTOg T YklWvgvkr v1 vc/yNg 
Hlo/Thlvy and other radical feminist books 
 possesses, by virtue of her two doctorates 
in theology and philosophy, a more "correct" 
opinion about feminism and religion than 
any of who were at the discussion. I think 
most of us  especially those who reject 
her views  will reject that conclusion.
Second, it was argued that feminists who 
object to sexism in the Bible are 
"interpreting" it; they are pulling quotes out 
of context to suit their purposes. Such a 
position implies that there is such a thing as 
reading the Bible elhkvUh interpreting it. All 
of modem literary theory will back me up in 
saying that the idea of anybody reading
anything without interpreting it is absurd; 
the very act of endowing the words we read 
with meaning is an act of interpretation. Just 
as a feminist brings her experiences and 
biases to any reading, so a Republican 
brings hers, a Mets fan brings hers, and a 
Christian brings her. When a Christian 
(feminist or no) pulls examples of non
sexist language from the Bible, or appeals to 
the whole Bible at once (an act whose 
possibility I question), she is "proving" no 
more and no less than the feminist who does 
the same.
Finally, and most importantly, I think that 
there has been a blurring of the issues of 
private faith and the public constructs of 
religion. Those who argue that the male 
status of God the Father is insignificant 
because, for them, God, as a divine being, 
does not possess gender in the same fashion 
that humans do, are describing their personal 
beliefs about the nature of God.
Such beliefs change the fact that the social 
institutions which have grown up around 
Judeo-Christianity (and virtually every other 
established religion in the world) are 
centrally patriarchal and brutally limiting to 
women.
Every thinking person must constantly be 
engaged in attempting to resolve 
contradictions within herself between 
traditional ideologies and emergent ones. 
However, let us keep such personal means of 
reconciliation distinct from observations 
about the public constructs of religion.
To gloss over the long history and the 
current reality of sexism in the writings and 
institutions of almost every organized 
religion in the world  including JudeoChristianity  in an attempt to resolve 
one's personal conflict is intellectually 
irresponsible and ultimately destructive to
positive feminist change.
Anne-Marie Harvey

---------------------------------------------------

March 10, 1987The TartanPage 17
[nts of New Sports Starting
Swimming, Frisbee, Foul Shooting - The IM Report
gports in Season 
Bowling
Have SAE and CSO paid bowling fees to 
Strand Lanes?
Darts
Commissioner - Paul Pecora 621 - 9125 
Playoffs are under way.
Basketball
Finals completed last Thursday night.
Campus Champions:
Majors - Alpha Tau Omega 
Intermediate - The Squad 
Minors - Sigma Tau Gamma 
See story on page 18.
Nice Job, Commissioners - Dee Nyzio, 
Vince Carozza, and Mike Gryzwinski!
Floor Hockey 
Commissioners:
Majors - Rob Schlackman x5518 
Minors - Mike Gryzwinski x4651 
Standings are posted on the IM Bulletin 
Board.
Pinochle
Commissioner - Vince Carozza x5494 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM Office!!
Please report winning scores to IM Office. 
Handball
Commissioner - E.J. Birdy x2214
IT IS STILL NOT TOO LATE TO SIGN
UP! Get your name in to the IM Office now.
Water Basketball
Commissioner - Hal Levine x4077
There are too many forfeited matches. Get
out and play!
Each team MUST supply one official for 
each match.
Greg Garrison (x4570) will be the lifeguard 
for all matches.
Wrestling
Commissioner - Joe Kuefler 661 - 9375 
The IM Real Man Tournament will be held 
Saturday. March 14 in Thistle Hall. Weigh 
ins start at 9 am.
Everyone is welcome to wrestle or cheer. BE 
THERE!
Table Tennis
Commissioner - Stuart Fox x4259 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM Office.
Please report all scores to Stuart.
Please play all matches as scheduled.
Call Pool
Commissioner - Vic Banko x5403 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM Office.
Please report all scores to the IM Office. 
Weightlifting
Commissioners - Guy Bennardo x2214 
Keith Gorse x2222 
Enter as a team or as an individual. The 
following events will be held:
Squats
Bench
Clean
Start lifting NOW!
Sports Coming Up
CoRec Badminton
Commissioner - E.J. Birdy x2214
All CoRec Badminton will be played on one
night - Tuesday, March 17 at 7 pm.
Post Entiy!
Team Badminton 
Commissioner - Stuart Fox x4259 
Post Entry Tuesday, March 17, 7 pm.
All Matches played that evening.
Please turn rosters into IM Office.
Indoor Soccer
Commissioner - Vince Carozza x5494 
Games will start Monday, March 9. CHECK 
IM BULLETIN BOARD!
Good officials will be needed.
Final entry was Thursday March 5. 
Basketball Foul Shooting 
Commissioner - Mike Mastroianni x2214 
Shooting dates Wednesday and Thursday, 
March 11 and 12, from 6:30 to 7:30 pm. 
Enter as a five member team, or as an 
individual.
Shoot 100 points total - all on one day, or 
fifty a day on both days.
Three on Three Basketball
Held this weekend, results next week.
Commissioners - Dave Nardozzi x5438
Mike Mastroianni x2214 
Twenty five teams signed up.
Swimming Meet
Commissioners - Steve Francis x5420 
Hal Levine x4077 
Meet will be held Wednesday March 11 at 
4:30 pm at CMU pool.
Order of events:
200 yd. medley relay
50 yd. freestyle
100 yd. individual medley
50 yd. butterfly
100 yd. freestyle
50 yd. backstroke
50 yd. breaststroke
200 yd. freestyle
200 yd. freestyle relay
Post entry will be held.
Special heats for women only.
Rules are posted on IM Bulletin Board. 
Triathlon
Commissioners - E.J. Birdy x2214
Mrs. Morosky x2075 
This event is open to all students, faculty, 
staff, their spouses and immediate families, 
male or female.
Events - Swim 400 yds., bike 10 miles, run 
3 miles.
Entries taken as individual, three person 
team, or three person coed team.
Varsity athletes can participate.
CoRec Table Tennis 
Commissioner - Stuart Fox x4259 
Final entry date - March 19, 4:30 pm. 
Fencing
Commissioner - Jane Fisk x2220 
Sign up in Gym Rm. 104 or IM Office.
Men's and women's foil - Tuesday March 31, 
4:30 pm in the Fencing Room.
Team Fencing on Thursday, April 2, at 4:30 
pm in Thistle Hall.
Frisbee
Commissioner Needed!
Final Entry Date March 19, 4:30 pm.
Softball
Commissioners
Majors - Dee Nyzio x4608
Intermediate - Mike Gryzwinski x4651
Minors - Stuart Fox x4259
Womens - Vince Carozza x5494
Notes
IM Banquet - April 21
IM President next year - Hal Levine, Stuart 
Fox, Rob Schlackman.
Next Meeting - Thursday, March 19 at 12:30 
pm.
Our Campus Football Champions, Pi Kappa 
Alpha, will represent us in a Flag Football 
Toumey at La Roche this Spring.
</)oc-UiCOUJocz
Come visit our 
sparkling new storeTop Notch
ART mTERIALS INC.
411 S. Craig St. 
OAKLAND
GL
C/>
0 3 
2 >
Zo
HOWARD JOHNSON
Lodge at University Center
See How Were
3401 Boulevard of the Allies  Pittsburgh  Oakland. Pennsylvania 15213 
In PA (412) 683-6100 ln PA (800) 441-3979 Out of PA (800) 245-444^
Shed light onthe matter

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanMarch 10, 1987
The Pirates Pitching Staff: A Repeat of Last Season?
 ______<&*-J>* ,'Hr *
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
SThTy mvyhloUhlyQ FOlhv
Everybody loves a young pitcher. 
Especially a youthful hard-throwing 
fireballer. Of those the Pirates have plenty.
But when most of your "top prospects" 
seem to better resemble Diego Segui than 
Dwight Gooden, it helps to have a few 
trustworthy veteran hurlers to lean on. That 
is where Pittsburgh comes up short
The veteran of the staff is Rick Reuschel, 
who'll be 38 in May. Reuschel turned in an 
outstanding year in 1985, but declined 
sharply last season. Which is the real Rick 
Reuschel? He says it's the 14-8 pitcher who 
marked up a 2.27 ERA two years ago. His 
age implies it is the 9-16, 3.96 ERA hurler 
of 1986.
Larry McWilliams used to be a veteran 
starting pitcher; now he's a veteran long 
reliever. Even though he admits "the kids 
look younger every year," hes "not even 
looking towards the finish of my career." 
But that may not be his decision. 
McWilliams compounded an injury-plagued
1985 season with an abysmal follow up last 
summer. Although he claims "I'm feeling 
great; never better," McWilliams can't be 
counted on to be a Rock of Gibraltar.
There is great hope pinned this season on 
one pitcher with over seven years of major 
league experience. Don Robinson, despite 
suffering injuries that sidelined him for 
nearly two months in the early going, 
snatched the "closer" job from the now 
departed Cecelio Guante and recorded 14 
saves in 15 opportunities. Manager Jim 
Leyland is hoping that late season trend will 
carry over into 1987.
But Robinson won't get many save 
opportunities if the starting pitchers put the 
team into a hole. And most of those duties 
rest on the shoulders of the young pitchers.
Penciled in as the tentative opening day 
starter is Bob Patterson. Even though GM 
Syd Thrift noted that "were very high on 
this young man," one has to wonder how a 
pitcher with 5 major league starts (ML 
record: 2-3, 6.92 ERA) will react to
Some Pirate pitchers loosen up under the Bradenton sun.Photo by John Friedmann
throwing the first pitch of the season versus 
the World Champion New York Mets. 
Patterson can be good, but calling his first 
start a pressure cooker qualifies as a major 
league understatement 
Among the other young hurlers expected to 
try and pitch the Bucs upward in the 
standings is Bob Kipper. Kipper spent most 
of last season in Pittsburgh, save for two 
months on the disabled list and a 
rehabilitation assignment in Nashua. He is a 
relatively known quantity, but will 
hopefully benefit from pitching coach Ray 
Millers advice on changing speeds.
Ice Tartans Finish Season
Continued from Page 20
stick side for a 1-0 lead. For Bauman, it was 
his second playoff goal, and thirty first of 
the year.
The Tartans skated very tenatively after the 
goal, but were able to skate out the 
butterflies, as only four minutes later the 
Tartans had evened up the game. A 
Duquesne crossing pass was intercepted in 
the CMU zone by freshman Todd Henderson, 
who dished it off to junior tri-captain Greg 
Timmons. Timmons skated past the 
Duquesne blue line and fed SUPA grad Mike 
McGuire with a beautiful pass, which caught 
Duke's goaltender Jim Reith by surprise. 
McGuire had an easy shot, and stuffed it into 
the open net to tie the game at 1. For 
McGuire, the grad student from Chelmsford, 
Massachusettes, it was his third goal in as 
many games, and brought his season goal 
total to 14. With that goal, the Tartans were 
able to climb back into the game, but still 
were being outplayed by the Dukes. 
Duquesne was able to keep the puck in the 
CMU zone for the remainder of the period, 
and quell any Tartan attack with a good 
forecheck.
The second period of play saw the Tartans 
come out flat, and Duquesne took the 
opportunity and flashed the red light again. 
Duke forward Jeff Bauman scored his second 
goal of the game only :29 into the period, 
off a nice pass from Joe Barbara. Barbara 
got the puck after a good backcheck by Jim 
Hughes freed up the puck. Bauman's goal 
was on a clean one on none break, and 
Kerber was defenseless and beaten to the 
stick side.
After the goal, Carnegie Mellon was given 
their first of many power play opportunties 
on the day, as Duke winger Pete Flannagan 
was called to box for a trip at the 5:55 
mark. Duquesne did a great jobof penalty 
killing, clearing the zone three successive 
times in the short handed situation. After a 
Tartan wore able to kill off a penalty to 
Kennon Smith, the icemen were given 
another golden opportunity, as Duquesne's 
Pete Flannagan was put away for a high 
sticking minor at 12:06.
Carnegie Mellon almost tied the score 
during the advantage, as Mike McGuire stole 
the puck in the neutral zone and sped into 
the Duke end with no one between him and 
the goaltender Reith. Reith charged out and 
McGuire could only get off a weak shot 
which was easily denied by Reith, who 
owned the league's best goals against average 
at 2.95.
The Dukes were given a power play 
opportunity at 11:05, but they were denied
by the startling play of the Tartan defense. 
The defense was led by WRCT player of the 
game Rich Nave, who cleared the zone with 
numerous backchecks throughout the game. 
"We always rely on a good defense," 
commented Nave, the junior from 
Huntington Woods, Michigan. Nave's play 
was instrumental in the game as he was able 
to knock Duquesne players out from the 
front of the net.
Just after the Duquesne power play 
opportunity expired, the Dukes were caught 
in midst of a line change at 13:51. Carnegie 
Mellons McGuire fed Timmons with a nice 
feed three feet in front of the net. Timmons 
let a quick wrist shot go, and it beat Reith 
between the legs for the score. For tri
captain Timmons, it was his fifth goal of 
the playoffs, to go along with his 23 goals 
during the regular season ^nd it tied the score 
at 2-2. At the end of two periods, the teams 
both had 22 shots and 2 goals, even though 
Carnegie Mellon was clearly being out
played.
At the beginning of the third period, Tartan 
coach Bobby Koch was confident that his 
team could win. Carnegie Mellon was 
finally beginning to get the puck into the 
Duquesne end by the end of the second 
period, and coach Koch told his players that 
during the intermission. "I told them to 
keep playing the hockey that they are 
playing and not to get caught out of 
position. Both goals to this point were 
because people were not in the right place."
Despite improved Tartan play, the Dukes 
struck first in the third period. Only three 
minutes into the period, Carnegie Mellon 
could not clear the puck out of their zone. 
Duquesne was able to get off three or four 
shots before they finally hit paydirt, as John 
Nolan took a pass from Shawn Stevenson 
and Matt Heufelder in the slot Nolan skated 
in and took a quick shot which Kerber never 
saw, and the Dukes had themselves a 3-2 
lead.
The Tartans skated hard right off the face 
off following the goal, and it paid off only a 
minute and ten seconds later. In the neutral 
zone, Carnegie Mellons McGuire stole a 
Duke pass and fed Brian Nogrady just in 
front of the red line. Nogrady skated to the 
side of the net and stuffed in past Duke 
goalie Reith, who made a bad play by not 
covering the side of the net. Nogrady's goal 
evened up the scoreat three a side, and put 
the momentum in Carnegie Mellon hands 
with only ten minutes left in the game.
Both teams skated fairly evenly for the next 
seven and a half minutes, as the puck stayed
near center ice. As the Tartans mounted an 
attack just passed the 11:00 point in the 
period, Bauman was called for hook. The 
penalty gave the Tartans a man advantage 
with only three and a half minutes left to 
play, and needed to score there if they wanted 
to win. "We had to put them away right 
there if we wanted to win," recalled Koch.
But the Tartans were unable to tally despite 
getting three shots off in the first twenty 
seconds of the penalty. Then on the next 
exchange, Carnegie Mellons Henderson was 
called for a highstick along with Duquesne's 
Craig Stevenson. The penalties came at 
11:56, and gave the Tartans a 4-3 man 
advantage.
Both teams were unable to to make good 
with the penalties, and then with only forty 
nine seconds left in the contest, Duquesne's 
Gregg Butteri was caught for high stick, and 
sent off for two minutes. The one man 
advantage would last Carnegie Mellon the 
rest of the contest and for over a minute into 
the overtime period if they were unable to 
score.
Despite being a man down, Duke coach 
Jim Koch instructed his players to attack the 
Tartans, and forced some mistakes in the 
neutral zone that stopped CMU from 
forming an attack that would end the game. 
As the horn sounded to end regulation play, 
the Tartans were a little stunned by the 
Dukes attacking.
The Tartans began to show signs of 
running out of energy, as the two lines that 
had been skating throughout the third period 
were slowing down. Duquesne was skating 
three full lines throughout the period, and did 
not look as tired as the game moved into a 
ten minute sudden death overtime.
At the beginning of the overtime, the 
Tartans got off one shot, but could not get 
enough momentum to keep the puck in the 
Duke end, as Duquesne cleared the puck into 
the Tartan zone. As the Tartans tried to 
organize an offensive surge, the Dukes began 
a defensive charge that caught one of the 
Tartan defenders too far up the ice. Bauman 
skated up ice relentlessly, and stole the puck 
from Chris Galvin right at the blue line. 
Bauman deeked out Galvin and darted to the 
net Tartan goaltender Kerber began to charge 
out but a nice move by Bauman put Kerber 
off balance. With Kerber stumbling, there 
was an empty net sitting in front of 
Bauman. With a quick wrist shot, it was 
over. The game and the season had ended 
very harshly for the Tartans, while the 
Dukes had won their fourth championship in 
a row.
General Manager Syd Thrift pins his hopes 
for Patterson, Kipper, and the other young 
pitchers such as Mike Bielecki, Logan 
Easley and Doug Drabek on more than past 
performance. Thrift is a firm believer in a 
strong teaching program, and is relying on it 
to improve the talent he already has.
"Same names, different pitchers. These 
aren't the same players you saw last 
year...we have the best instructional program 
in the major leagues. The best"
In September, the rest of Pittsburgh will 
be in a position to affirm or reject that
statement
Kerber was defenseless on the play, as he 
tried to put a stick out to stop the shot. "I 
saw the play developing at the blue line. 
Galvin had the guy skate around him. The 
puck then came out further than Bauman 
wanted, so I came out to try a poke check. 
There was no way I was going to get there 
in time, so I stopped and he put a move on 
me.
I was helpless," remembered Kerber. Nave 
commented that the play is dangerous, and 
added that "[CMU] has had success bringing 
it up the middle all season, and it just 
backfired this time."
The 1986-87 Ice Tartan season was filled 
with ups and downs, like a 7-6 loss to Penn 
State West early in the year. Nave noted 
that the Tartans "had a tough time early in 
the season, but coming back to beat Pitt was 
a turning point in the season. What killed 
us was the layoff after the Pitt game." Nave 
was alluding to the two week layoff the 
Tartans had after beating Pitt due to ice 
problems at Lakeview, the Tartans home ice.
Looking back at this past season, "John 
Kerber was by far our most improved 
player," commented Tartan coach Koch. 
Kerber finished the season with a 3.11 goals 
against average, which was good enough for 
third in the conference behind Duquesne's 
Reith, and Gannon's netminder Steve 
Cronauer.
On the year, the Tartans leading scorer was 
Timmons, who tallied 23 goals and 12 
assists, to lead all scorers. Mike McGuire, 
who was hot for a month long stretch second 
semester, finished with 11 goals and 13 
asssists over the regular season, while his 
linemates Pat Merchak and John Blackwood 
finished with 8 and 7 goals respectively.
Defensively, the Tartans had fine seasons 
from tri-captian Sean McGinn, Jim Larson, 
Mark Licatta, Rich Nave, and freshman 
Marie Robson. The defense will only be 
losing Licatta, who finishes an impressive 
career as a Tartan defensiveman.
Despite the adversity of 86-87, the Tartans 
are very positive about next year. "We have 
a nice nucleus coming back," said Timmons. 
Carnegie Mellon will lose some people this 
summer, as grad students Kennon Smith, 
Mike McGuire, senior Tom Hughes, and tricaptain Pat Merchak will be graduating. 
"What we need next year is one more 
defenseman and some more forwards. We 
will be graduating a whole forward line this 
summer," said Koch. "I think that with the 
people coming back, we have enough talent 
to win that big game."

---------------------------------------------------

March 10,1987The TartanPage 19
Are You Spinning Your Wheels?Finding it hard to finish your dissertation or other projects? It's time to join our 
Overcoming Procrastination Program. This Comprehensive Program 
Includes: Time Management and Cognitive and Behavioral Skills Seminars, 
Individual Counseling, Support Groups, Networking, and Telephone 
Assistance. Call Stephen Linn, Ph.D., Licensed Psychologist, at the Caring 
Place, 486-4703.__________________________________________________________
SPEND THIS SUMMER IN MAINE!
BE A COUNSELOR AT KIPPEWA FOR GIRLS
Located on scenic Twelve-Mile Lake in Winthrop, Maine.
OPENINGS IN THE FOLLOWING SKILLS:
swimming (WSI), sailng, waterskiing, canoeing, tennis, gymnastics, field sports, arts & 
crafts (ceramics, leather, painting, sewing, stained glass, etc.), hiking, camping, 
secretarial, food service.
PREFERENCE FOR Sophs, Jrs., Srs., Grads. Contact: The Silvermans, 
P.O.Box 307, Westwood, MA 02090-0307 (617) 762-8291.
Ae seodace Uhcwij
 Low Daily - Weekly Rates
 Weekend Specials
 Must be 21 or over
 Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students and Parents' cards accepted.)
 Passenger Vans available also
 I/2 mile from Campus
. For Reservations Across The U S An* Canada
Dial Toll Free 800 237 ^04WE RENT PASSENGER VANS#J holiday-* 521 -5700#J pay less" aSS Q rent-a-car Hill)
April 25 
9:00 AM
Open to the entire 
(Ml community !
In the IM Majors Champs game, Beta came on quite strongly during the first half. Some hot shooting by ATO however quickly rebounded them into the lead, winning the
title for the third straight year. (Photos by Tim Qougherty)
Pick up your information and sign-up sheet 
at the Skibo information desk or the IM office.
Sponsored by Students Activities Fee
IM Hoops Champions - ATO, Scuntas, STG, WNGK
By DON GAMBLE
SThTy svhg FOlhv 
The Intramural Basketball Season ended 
with the Majors and Intermediate 
Championship games being played at the 
39th Annual Intramural Night last Thursday. 
The Gym air was full of tension as the four 
best teams of the year battled to become the 
Campus Champions of the 1987 season. At 
the end of the night, ATO had captured their 
third consecutive Majors Championship, 
while The Squad walked away with the 
Intermediate Seat. The previous evening, 
Sigma Tau Gamma, in their first season, 
clinched the Minors title while WNGK 
became the Champs in the Women's 
Division.
The Majors game provided the most 
excitement, as ATQ faced off against Beta - 
A in a game of intense rivalry. Beta, a 
powerful team this season, entered the game 
with a 10-0 record. At half-time Beta led 27- 
17, but ATQ rallied in the 4th quarter to get 
off 14 consecutive points. With one second 
remaining in play, and a tie at 32 - 32, 
ATO's Luke Demo let loose a beautiful turn 
around jump shot to deprive Beta of
overtime play, and a Championship victory 
as well. The Final score was 34 - 32, ATO. 
Mike Hensel and Rich Hoyland led Beta with 
scoring, while Tim Carson led ATQ with 8 
points in the second half. Demo was named 
the League's Most Valuable Player.
In a not-so-close game, The Squad went on 
to dominate Sigma Nu in the second half of 
the Intermediate Championships. The halftime lead of 22-8 favoring The Squad gave 
an early indication of who would be the 
winner. The final score was 50-26, with 21 
Squad tallies belonging to Jay Glaspy. The 
win rounded out a perfect 10-0 season for 
The Squad.
The 8-2 Sigma Tau Gammas clinched the 
Championship victory on Wednesday night 
over The Scuntas. STG's John Semler and 
Chris Lane led in scoring with 16 and 13 
points respectively. The Scuntas Mike 
Barros fmished the season with 20 of the 39 
Scunta tallies. The Final score saw STG up 
by two buckets, 43-39.
This hoops season marked a very 
successful year for IM basketball. For the 
second year in a row, over 100 teams 
submitted rosters to play.
bre bocdol
DThcdi Devdyhl
is in need of writers for upcoming sports 
such as golf and track. If you like to write 
and would like to cover these sports, call 
x2112 for more details.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Ice Tartans Go To Finals ; Lose To Duquesne
Photo by John Friedmann
Pirates General Manager Syd Thrift believes that pitching is a major part 
of a team's defense. But will the Pirates be able to deliver strong, 
consistent hurling this year? See story, page 18.
Swimmers Finish Season With Second Place Wins At PACs; Perkins Named Coach Of Year
By PERRY PIERCE
SThTy shT11elh/
The Carnegie Mellon Ice Tartans ended 
their season dramatically bylosing in 
overtime 4-3 to the Duquesne Dukes in the 
Western Pennsylvania Collegiate Hockey 
Association championship. The Tartans 
played catch up hockey all day, but catch up 
hockey is something you cannot do in 
sudden death overtime. Carnegie Mellon 
was beat on the breakaway three times on 
the day, but the last time was the most 
damaging. The Tartans found themselves on 
a power play at the end of regulation, but 
could not take advantage of it. The Tartans 
were caught too far up in the attacking zone, 
as the Dukes intercepted a pass and Jeff 
Bauman was good enough to beat Tartan 
goalie John Kerber on a breakaway for the 
championship only fifty three seconds into 
overtime.
The Ice Tartans reached the finals by 
defeating both Slippery Rock 10-3 in round
1 of the tournament, and knocking off the 
numb' two seated Gannon Golden Knights
5-4 in the semi-final round on Gannon's 
home ice. Carnegie Mellon finished the 
regular season with a 7-4-3 conference 
record, good for third place, behind Gannon 
and the first
place Dukes, touting an 11-1-1 mark.
Carnegie Mellon beat the Golden Knights 
in impressive fassion to reach the 
championship round. The Golden knights 
were helpless as Greg Timmons scored a hat 
trick and gamerd WRCT player of the game 
honors for his performance. The other 
Tartan goals were sewed by John Blackwood 
and Mike McGuire, both coming in the 
second period only thirty seconds apart.
The Tartans had a 5-2 lead with only ninety 
seconds remaining in the contest, but two 
goals by Gannon in the last minute and a 
half were not enough to overcome the 
upstart Tartans. Carnegie Mellon outshot 
the Golden Knights 30-22, and also 
controlled the puck for most of the contest 
For Carnegie Mellon, it was their first win 
against the Golden Knights in Erie since
1983, and they advanced into the finals with 
a lot of momentum. The only bad note was 
the loss of Mark Licatta, who injured his 
knee late in the second period.
The Dukes had defeated the Tartans both 
times in the regular season, by scores of 4-1, 
and 5-4. Carnegie Mellon hoped to avoid the 
elusive "triple-sweep," but it was not to be 
as Duquesne proved to be too strong. The 
Dukes wore down Carnegie Mellon with 
relentless forechecking throughout the 
contest, and it showed in the overtime 
period
The game was also the third matchup 
between the Koch brothers. Bobby Koch, 
head coach of the Tartans, and Jim Koch, 
head coach of the Dukes, have been rivaling 
each other since Bobby took the head 
coaching job with CMU. Bob, a 1986 
Carnegie Mellon graduate, tookthe position 
from John Polomsky after the 1985-86 
season came to a 
close.
The Tartans also found themselves 
shorthanded defensively against the Dukes 
due to the injured Mark Licatta. Tartan head 
coach Bob Koch was forced into moving 
freshman forward Chris Galvin back to 
defense. With that move the Tartans only 
had two forward lines, which cost them late 
in the game. "Having Licatta out hurt us, so 
we were forced
to play 2 lines," recalled Koch. "We were 
just spent after playing three periods. The 
overtime was just a little too much."
The first period of play was fast and 
furious, as both teams looked to gain the 
early advantage. The Tartans were a bit 
nervous for about the first ten minutes of the 
game, and Duquesne used that to go ahead 
first. The Dukes were able to keep the puck 
in the CMU zone for most of the period, but 
a quick attack by Carnegie Mellon turned 
into a Duquesne breakaway. At the 5:28 
mark, Jeff Bauman took a pass from 
teammate Jim OConner down the center of 
the rink and skated coast to coast 
unmolested, easily beating Kerber to the
By DON GAMBLE
SThTy svhg FOlhv
The Swim Tartans finished up their season 
at the President's Athletic Conference Finals 
held at Washington and Jefferson last week. 
Both the Mens and Women's teams took 
second place, behind Grove City and John 
Carroll in their respective divisions. 
Carnegie Mellon's Jim Perkins, in his first 
season here, was named Coach of the Year 
for the Mens team in the PAC.
Both teams have enjoyed a relatively 
successful year. The Men finished with an 
impressive 9 - 1 record, while the Women 
finished with a 3 - 4 record. Of the four 
losses however, three were against Division
2 powerhouses, while only one was a PAC 
defeat. The teams' strength showed again 
during the PAC, with both naming their 
swimmers to the Champion roster.
In the Women's division, Francesca Cranell 
cinched the title in the 50- and 100- yard 
freestyle with times of 25.97 seconds and 
56.67 seconds respectively. The latter was a 
new PAC record. The womens relay team 
also cornered its share of the glory, winning 
the 200- and 400- yard medley relays, and the 
200-yard freestyle relay.
When it was over, the women trailed in 
second place behind the tide-defending John 
Carroll by a tiny, three point margin, 532- 
529. Following in third, fourth, and fifth 
places were hosts Washington and 
Jefferson(405), Bethany(233) and 
Hiram(201). John Carroll's Kim 
MacDougall was named Most Valuable 
Swimmer, while her coach, Matt Lenhardt 
was named Coach of the Year.
The Men, though entering the PAC's with a 
far better record than the Women, fared a bit 
worse in the competition, but still managed 
to take second place. Grove City defended its 
title with 625. ^points to Carnegie Mellon's 
441. Following Carnegie Mellon were John 
Carroll(241), Washington and 
Jefferson( 188.5), Bethany(143), and
Hiram(118), respectively. Most Valuable 
Swimmer was shared by Grove Citys Matt 
Wilkes and Ken Petrie.
The usual swimmers graced the List of 
Champions at the PAC's. Senior CoCaptain Steve Francis set a new PAC record 
in the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 
46.54 seconds. Francis also clinched the 200- 
yard freestyle in 1:44.75.
Francis's counterpart, Senior Co-Captain 
Rob Summers took first in the 1650-yard 
freestyle, with a winning time of 17:06.67 j
minutes. Greg Schooley placed first in the 
400-yard individual medley with a time of 
4:23.25. The Men's relay team found a" 
victory in the 800-yard freestyle relay, an 
event Carnegie Mellon has possessed the 
tide of for three years. Their winning time - 1
7:03.79 minutes.
One of the more surprising awards was the i 
bestowment of Coach of the Year on 
Carnegie Mellons own Jim Perkins. This 
year marked Perkins' beginning as Head 
Coach for the Swimmers, replacing Donna 
Morosky last fall. The Mens team certainly 
did spectacularly under his direction, 
finishing with a 9 - 1 record, probably the 
biggest factor in the choice of Perkins for 
the award.
"He did a hell of a job, I think, said 
Summers. "Jim made the few mistakes of 
being a new coach, but he was great 
overall."
One of Perkins' main concerns was about 
the small size of the Women's team.
"When he came here, we had six girls. 
When we went to the PAC's we had twelve. 
And look how well they did. Hes a good 
recruiter," said Summers. "You don't just 
come to a swim team in your first year, j 
double the team size, and then finish the year 
only three points out of first place. It just 
doesn't happen that way."
For the most part, the team was happy 
about this past season. Francis and 
Summers, both in their final semesters at 
Carnegie Mellon, both felt they had done 
their best for their last time.
"Im pleased, the outspoken Francis said.
However, though it may seem over, the 
season is somewhat perpetuated by the 
National competition that will take place on 
March 18. Carnegie Mellon's Men's Relay 
Team, consisting of Schooley, Francis, 
Whitney Foster, Mike Fitzgerald and 
Summers(altemate), will defend the title in 
the 800-yard relay. The team has owned the 
title for the past three years, and are intent 
on retaining it.
"I'm confident," said Francis. "Well do it'
And do it they will, if this season's 
performance is any indicator of what can be 
expected at the Nationals.
Continued on Page 18
Scoreboard
Ice Hockey
WPCHA Semifinals: 
Carnegie Mellon 5 
Gannon 4
WPCHA Finals:
Duquesne 4 
Carnegie Mellon 3
Rugby
American U.-A 12 
Carnegie Mellon - A 3
Carnegie Mellon-B 10 
American U.-B 0
PAC Swimming Finals
Men's Finals 
Grove City 625.5 
Carnegie Mellon 441 
John Carroll 241 
Wash, and Jeff. 188 
Bethany 143 
Hiriam 118
Women's
John Carroll 532 
Carnegie Mellon 529 
Wash, and Jeff. 405 
Bethany 233 
Hiram 201
Coaches of the Year 
Men's - Jim Perkins (CM) 
Women's - Matt Lenhardt (JCU)
Most Valuable Swimmers 
Men's - Matt Wilkes (GCC)
Ken Petrie (GCC) 
Women's - Kim MacDougall(JCU)
