VOL. 46No. 13 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., JAN. 13, 1953
Thistle Undergoes Change 
Better Coverage Planned
Carnegie9s Paradox
This year, as different from any in the past, every Thistle sub
scriber will get complete coverage of his school year. No longer 
will you open your book and find the previous years Spring Car
nival pictures; instead you will see that Spring Carnival at which 
you were present, youll see the spring sports and events in which 
you participated or witnessed and last but not least the senior will 
vieV his own Commencement with its gala activity. This will be 
made possible due to the new policy adopted by the Thistle staff. 
Under the new setup, the students will receive their yearbooks upon 
returning to school next fall and at the same time, the seniors will 
receive their copies by mail (this service will be free of charge to
all senior subscribers). *-------------------------------------------------
This change will undoubtedly 
lead to a better book because un
der such a schedule, the cost of 
the printing will be less, thus 
more money can be spent on ad
ditional features in the Thistle; 
there will be more time to spend 
in the planning and printing of 
the book  resulting in a 1953 
Thistle of better quality.
Pay In Spring:
To facilitate this change, sen
iors will have to fill out applica
tion indicating their home mailing 
address and will have to make the 
second payment during registra
tion on January 29, 30, or 31. All 
other students will make second 
payments either during spring reg
istration or when they receive 
their Thistle next September.
Refunds will be given to those 
[Continued on page 8]
Thefts
It is recommended that 
members of the student body 
not leave valuables easily 
available in college buildings 
and lock their automobiles 
wheft leaving them in the var
ious parking areas. 
Photo by Toia
CarFree Concert 
By Students
The student orchestra of 
negie Tech will present a concert 
at 8:00 pm. on Wednesday, Jan
uary 14, 1953, at Carnegie Music 
hall. Mr. Robert Cantrick, assist
ant professor of music education 
at Carnegie, will be the conductor.
The program will open with 
two selections by Mozart: the
Overture to Don Giovanni and 
the Piano Concerto in G Major, 
K. 453, with Hyla Goldstein as 
piano soloist. This will be followed 
by Beethovens Piano Concerto 
in C Minor, which will feature 
Annabelle Sachs as piano soloist 
and Jack Brourman as student 
Conductor. The program also in
cludes the Bizet Suite from Car
men and the Piano Concerto in 
A Minor by Schumann with Saralee Eisner as soloist.
Tickets for the concert, which 
is free to the public, can be ob
tained in the Music Office, Fine 
Arts building.
Retreat Planned 
By Neivman Club 
February 6-8
Catholic men students at Car
negie Tech will have the oppor
tunity to attend the annual closed 
retreat sponsored by the Pitt and 
Tech Phi Kappa fraternities and 
Newman clubs. The retreat is 
scheduled for February 6 through 
8 at St. Pauls retreat house on 
the south side. Students who par
ticipate will leave Friday before 
supper and stay at St. Pauls un
til Sunday evening.
Father Cajetan Sullivan, O.P., 
head of the retreat house visited 
Tech to talk to the Newman club 
on Thursday Jan. 13.
For information, students are 
requested to get in touch with 
George Pauly or Bob Lechner.
Does Poor Math Integration 
Cheat Carnegie Undergraduate?
Editor, The Tartan:
Theres something wrong with the math department. Theres something very wrong with the 
math department. Though professing the ability to integrate infinitely complex expressions, the men
New Dean Of Women 
Six Years On Campus"
By Jo Forsythe
The new acting Dean of Women, Mrs. Nancy O. Dickinson, was 
already a familiar campus personality when she moved into AH 148, 
the office vacated by Mrs. Joan M. Schaeffer on December 19. Mrs. 
Dickinson is the popular wife of an equally popular past faculty
?member at Tech, James A. Dick
inson. Mr. Dickinson was Dean of
Students from 1946 to June, 1951. 
He is now at Alcoa, where he is a 
member of the training staff and 
the personnel department.
The new Dean of Women, who 
is serving in that capacity until 
the end of June, is well acquainted 
with Carnegie, its students and its 
activities. In her own words, she 
I stdt6s Mr Dickinson and Iof math, paradoxically enough, leave one issue in doubt. They cant integrate the math department, ; married shortly before he entered
The difficulties lie right where a department head would rather not find themin the class
room. Both instruction and teaching material seem so far below a minimum standard that its sur
prising they havent already evoked overt student criticism.
~ ' Im under the impression that the math instructor regards his classroom activities as an un
fortunate determent in the pursuit of his own scholastic endeavors. This may or may not be com
pletely his fault; to a large extent, however, Im inclined to believe it is. I know little about any 
pressures that may be exerted upon the instructor outside of class, yet I doubt that they become great 
enough to prohibit a bare minimum of adequate teaching preparation. Ive become all too familiar 
with such examples of the shopworn expression as, If you fellows dont get this, its all your fault,
I know how to explain it . . . (nervous chuckle) . . . but not in terms that you Sophomores could 
comprehend, (believe it or not), Theres not much in this chapter, etc., ad nauseam.
This criticism stems from my own classroom experience, of course, but I have come to 
believe that this situation is typical of undergraduate math classes in general. The fact re
mains that the math instructor is really not interested in teaching; he would rather not teach, 
but since teaching affords him means to an advanced degree, perhaps security and prestige 
which would have to come with more effort on his part elsewhere in the world, he perseveres.
He knows little about the administration of authority or how to engender respect within the 
student. He doesnt care enough about the classroom to learn his students names.
The Plan was evidently conceived by a few scrimping Scots who attempted (and succeeded) 
to cut down work within the clan. The math instructor knows no answers to assigned problems.
Only after he has worked them out in class has he any idea of a solution. To a student with an answer, 
merely wishing to check it, this is a complete waste of time. Why doesnt the instructor work prob
lems? The Plan has decreed it. Besides, this would mean work for the instructor outside of class.
What the head of the math department fails to realize is this. Everything is learned. This means 
the right way and the wrong way. Working the initial problems of an assignment without check
ing answers can result in learning an incorrect mathematical procedure as easily as most untutored 
golfers develop a weak swing. Wrong ways must be unlearned and right ways relearned. The right 
way is not always obvious and wrong ways often seem infallibly correct. A department head should 
not be ignorant of psychological realities. Any system sanctioning such hogwash can only be con
sidered a clumsy little diagram, not a plan.
From what Ive heard, theres a mysterious man behind the scenes writing the course 
exams for calculus. As far removed as he is from classroom progress, we must assume that 
he is either Clairvoyant, a Delphic priest, or Elijah. Why doesnt he come out in the open 
where we can toss our indicative-of-nothing-more-than-the - materialized - ideals - of-the-instructor marks at him? He seems to be one of the least well integrated aspects of the depart
ment.
Were requested to keep track of a sixteen-bit pile of pulp, our text, that because of its com
plete lack of attractiveness, its creators have failed to provide with a binding. The chances of selling 
it on another campus are negligible. Actually its a cold, disheartening reference tome depending upon 
classroom instruction that never materializes. I suggest that its really suitable only for mashing 
and converting into plasma containers.
Finally, I find Im taking statics, a nine unit course, from someone who frankly admits he knows 
little about the material. Here again is the problem of desiring solutions to assigned problems and 
not finding themexcept in extended, time-wasting, classrooms probing sessions. Here again is the 
situation of an instructor appearing before a class, equipped only with a degree, certainly with no 
propensity for teaching and lacking even the motivation to prepare a lesson thoroughly.
May I suggest an interesting experiment? I suggest that a little questionaire be dis
tributed to students in the math departmentat least students in their freshman and sopho
more years. A single question might suffice; something like, Am I learning in class (as 
much as) (less than) (more than) what I had expected? I -would also suggest that the de
partment head take the time to view the rock-bottom mechanics of his courses, to sit in on a 
few math classes, unannounced. Perhaps he could hang a placard over his desk reading,
Lets Get Back to the Classroom. I feel that students would greatly appreciate it if he were 
to distribute a definite statement of some sort, defining the relationship between present 
teaching methods and the Plan in general.
I wonder if Dr. Warner realizes that C.I.T. and other schools are becoming nothing more than 
advanced entrance exams for industry-sponsored training programs. I wonder if Dr. Moskovitz real
izes this. To arrest the trend, I suggest that classroom time be utilized more productively.
Sincerely,
Kenneth Luther, M.E. 55.
the Navy for service in World War 
II. In 1946 we came to Carnegie 
Tech and I have, in a sense, work
ed in the Deans office ever since. 
As for spare time hobbies, I have 
had time for only onethe stu
dents . . . Mr. Dickinson and I at
tended many social functions and 
athletic events. Because of being 
on campus for the past six years, 
I feel very fortunate indeed. This 
experience has given me a real 
headstart on the job.
Mrs. Dickinson served on the ad[Continued on page 3}
Classical Music
Sigma Alpha Iota, the wom
ens music honorary, is spon
soring an outstanding program 
of classical music for all inter
ested students. Every Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday at 
12:30 p.m. you can bring your 
lunch to FA 157 and listen to 
the best classical music rec
ords.
Programs for each day are 
posted on bulletin boards 
around the campus. Students 
attending the record sessions 
select the records to be playe I 
at future gatherings.
KQV Airs Series 
On Brotherhood 
Started Jan. 8
The National Conference of 
Christian and Jews, with the co
operation of radio station KQV 
will present a series of 12 dramatic 
I stories entitled Brotherhood for 
Common Good, narrated by stars 
of stage, screen, radio, and tele
vision.
The programs will begin on Jan
uary 8 and end on March 26. The 
12 fifteen minute broadcasts are 
scheduled for Thursday evenings, 
10:15 to 10:30 p.m. In addition to 
the prepared dramatic stories, the 
local radio *programs will involve 
representatives from different or
ganizations in our community who 
will tell what they are doing in 
connection with the story that has 
I been told. One program, Your 
Brother Asks to be Remembered, 
will include a representative from 
the Pittsburgh chapter of the Red 
Cross and a nurse who actually 
served in the war zone.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, January 13, 1953
Nothing New From Stalin; 
GOPs Cabinet Promising
No Tartan
Since this Is a month of 
finals and vacations, there will 
not be another issue of the 
TARTAN until February 10.
By Professor Thomas T. Helde ?
On Christmas eve came an announcement which for a few mo
ments gave hope of providing some real news amidst the general 
lull of the years end. The announcement was from the Soviet
Registration Information
Penalty for late registration is $5.00 for first day and $1.00 per 
day thereafter up to $10.00 maximum.
The steps to be accomplished are as follows:
1. All students except freshmen in E & S, Industrial and Printing Manage
ment and MMCC report to department offices for approved schedules (4 copies for non-veteran student, 5 for veterans).
a. E & S freshmen, Industrial Management and Printing Management fresh
men report to Dean Graham at south end of mens gymnasium aftercompleting Step 2 (below).
b. MMCC freshmen report to Professor McBride, room 102, MMCC.
2. Obtain a fee slip, a registrars information card and a class card order blank as follows:
a. E & S, Industrial and Printing Management at south entrance of mens gym.
b. All Fine Arts students at middle entrance of mens gym.
c. All MMCC students at room 120, MMCC.
3. Fill out all forms you have been given. Enter your student number on the 
registrars information card and class card order blank. Your number 
is on your fee slip and on your receipt for last semester. If you cannot find it, ask at the IBM desk in mens gym.
4. Go to IBM desk in mens gym for checkingr
5. Go to Thistle hall for final check. 4
6. Go to fee desk in Thistle hall to have fee entered on fee slip.
7. If you are a veteran, go to veterans desk in Thistle hall.
8. If you must make special arrangements (loans, etc.) for payment of fees, 
go to Dean of Students Office, AH 148-A.
9. Proceed to womens gym to pay fee, dormitory or other charges and get a receipt.
10. Pass the collection desk where all forms, except those you keep, will be * surrendered.
A graduation fee of $10.00 is charged to every candidate for 
a degree, and is payable at the registration period, January 29 
through February 3 for Commencement on June 6, 1953.
W. L. Rogers,
Registrar.
Date: All students residing in the Pittsburgh district will reg. ,  , . . . ister on Thursday, January 29. All others register on January 30embassy in Washington; it contained answers from Premier Stalin jand 31 EXCEPTION: E&S, PM, IM, and MMCC. freshmen on
to four questions submitted to him by the brilliant and witty dipj Friday, Jan. 30. 
lomatic correspondent of the New York Times, James Reston. Stalin j 
wrote that he did not consider war between the United States and j 
the Soviet Union inevitable; but, in his opinion, the major source j 
of world friction lay in the aggressive actions of the policy of the j 
cold war against the Soviet Union. Stalin would consider favj 
orably a meeting with General Eisenhower to discuss international! 
questions; as for the greatest of world problems, Korea, the Premier j 
said he would cooperate" in an attempt to reach a solution by dipj 
lomatic means, because the USSR is interested in ending the war in j 
Korea.
Met by Skepticism
Of course, the reply was a journalistic plum for Reston, and j
some elements of excitement were given to it through the quick-:
ened inflections of radio broadcasters. But an examination of Stalins I
words in the cold light of reason gave little cause for hope that 
anything really new had appeared. After all, the Soviets still 
claimed that other nations are providing the threat of war and 
world disruption; furthermore, it cannot be doubted that the USSR 
is interested in ending the Korean warthe big question con
cerns the terms on which the war will be ended, and Stalin vouch
safed no information on that score. Fortunately, the general re
action to Stalins statement was characterized by the skepticism 
born of experience with too many similarly broad and vague pro
nouncements by the Soviets. The essential issue in Korea, and the 
stalemate on ending the war, remain unchanged.
Business Mans Cabinet
Other than this incident, the major domestic and international 
activities of the past weeks have been characterized more by 
preparation than by accomplishment. In the United States, so far as 
the outgoing administration is concerned, there is little to do' but to 
wait for January 20. President Trumans state of the union message 
to Congress generally wound up his activities as chief executive, 
albeit with an exceedingly pessimistic warning to Stalin concerning 
the destructive capabilties of Americas H-bomb. President-elect 
Eisenhower has continued to construct a cabinet and administrative 
organization which give promise for the future. It is the hope of his 
business mens cabinet to achieve an efficient administration and 
to guide the nation along sound, middle-of-the-road policies. The 
new Republican Congress has marshaled its forces for legislation 
and Investigation. The prospects for the coming administration have 
been widely discussed it remains only to watch for actual devel
opments.
SpringProvides Answers
Like the nation, the world, insofar as many internation issues 
are concerned, has seen a period of marking time until Eisenhower 
takes office. Prime Minister Winston Churchill has been in the 
United States laying the groundwork for continued British and 
American cooperation. Major decisions concerning the growth of the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization, as well as the direction of French 
and West German policy, are waiting for the new administration.
Without a doubt, the spring will provide many new answers to both 
domestic and international questions. The fact that United States 
policy seems to provide the key to forthcoming international devel
opments is a rather sobering one; it is to be hoped that leaders in 
the legislative as well as the executive branch of the American gov
ernment will be equal to their tasks.
Carmen Stars 
Famous Artists
For the second production of the 
current season, the Pittsburgh Op
era, Incorporated have chosen the 
ever popular Carmen, without 
which no season is complete, judg
ing from the successful presenta
tions of the past. On Thursday and 
Saturday evenings, January 22 
and 24, the Pittsburgh Opera will 
present at Syria Mosque three out
standing artists in the leading 
roles: Claramae Turner, contralto, 
sings the title role; Walter Fred
ericks, tenor, sings the role of Don 
Jose; and Walter Cassel, well 
known baritone; sings that of 
Escamillo.
Surrounding these artists will be 
a large cast of well known local 
singers, including Pittsburghs own 
Mary Martha Briney in the role of 
Micaela; Phyllis Sydney as Frasquita; Claryne Karsh as Mercedes; 
Gil Ferrando as Zuniga; George 
Smiley as Morales; Earl Corwin 
as Dancairo; and Nathaniel Sprinzena as Remendado.
Seats are now on sale at the R. 
E. Baltz agency, 632 Liberty ave
nue, AT. 1-2196, also Gimbels and 
Hornes.
Shoot
the
Works
Hughes cooperative plan for
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, 
and a high starting salary await you at Fairchild, if yon are 
one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right 
now for qualified engineers and designer in all phases of 
aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in 
our long-range military program: turning out the famous 
G119 Flying Boxcar and other projects for the U.S. Air Force.
Thisyeiar provides paid vacations and liberal health and 
life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-'hour week as a 
base. Premium is paid when longer work week is scheduled.
 [NQM Ml HffUWf CODFWMTiMrAIRCHILD rfima/tDivtiim
HAGERSTOWN, MARYLAND
1
MASTER
OF
SCIENCE
DEGREES
Purpose TO ASSIST outstanding graduates in 
obtaining their Master of Science De
grees while employed in industry and 
making significant contributions to im
portant military work.
Eligibility June 1953 college graduates and mem
bers of the armed services being honor
ably discharged prior to September, 
1953, holding degrees in the following 
fields:
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING 
PHYSICS
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Those chosen to participate in this plan 
will be from the upper portion of their graduating classes and will have evi
denced outstanding ability. They must 
also have displayed some degree of crea
tive ability and possess personality traits 
enabling them to work well with others.
Citizenship Applicants must be United States citizens, and awards will be contingent upon 
obtaining appropriate security clearance, 
as work at the Hughes Research and 
Development Laboratories may be re
lated to National Defense projects.
MversUies Candidates for Master of Science De
grees must meet the entrance require
ments for advanced study at the 
University of California at Los Angeles 
or the University of Southern California.
Myogram Under this Cooperative Plan, commenc
ing June 1953, participants will follow 
this schedule of employment at Hughes: 
FULL TIMEfrom June, 1953 to Sept, 1953. 
HALFJTIMEfrom Sept, 1953 to June, 1954. 
FULL TIMEfrom June, 1954 to Sept., 1954. 
HALF TIMEfrom Sept., 1954 to June, 1955. 
Recipients will earn five-eighths of a 
normal salary each year and attend a
Address correspondence to 
A[[NQQMM l HfUWfQM CQWUO 
DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD>
university half time during regular ses
sions working on their Masters Degree.
The salary will be commensurate with Salaries the individuals ability and experience, 
and will reflect the average in the elec
tronics industry. Salary growth will be 
on the same basis as for full-time mem
bers of the engineering staff. In addition, the individuals will be eligible for health, 
accident and life insurance benefits, as well as other benefits accruing to full
time members.
For those residing outside of the SouthTravel and 
em California area, actual travel and Moving moving expenses will be allowed up to Expenses 
ten per cent of the full starting annual 
salary.
Tuition, admission fee, and required Sponsorship 
books at either the University of Cali
fornia at Los Angeles or the University 
of Southern California, covering the re
quired number of units necessary to ob
tain a Masters Degree, will be provided 
by Hughes Research and Development 
Laboratories.
Approximately one hundred CooperaNumber 
tive Awards are made each year, if sufof Award* 
ficient qualified candidates present them
selves.
Candidates will be selected by the ComSelection oj 
mittee for Graduate Study of the Hughes Candidates 
Research and Development Labora
tories.
Application forms should be obtained Application
prior to February 15, 1953. Completed Procedure
applications accompanied by up-to-date
grade transcripts must be returned not
later than February 28, 1953. Selections
will be made during the month of
March.
ri
FWHFMC N TiD
RESEARCH 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
LABORATORIES
j City,
I Los Angele 
{ County,
I California

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, January 13, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPaye 3
G ERS time wilt ,YRR TLPIBD
SPIE! RPKY. f3 PERS 6
B01Y o0RR BYRR TLPI,D T d0!TtYBBY. ( 
T QT-Y SPIt B01Y999
I Test
V OL.46NN 4 ,Pt 7V 3TSy
a V.D,Pt [NrUbMCC 
, TE3 lrfe h
wow/e,df n 
REAL DREAMY1. ^ 
OUST THINK ) / 
y* OF GOING < I
 ( THROUGH LIFE j N
V WITH HIM/ >L
/ r~7-------A BED
q^// J OF ROSES...
A[ANQ MlH 
rr'u. 3,WITH . 
QFbC 
SHfir > REMOVED! >
( N[ C cMfrWC
N AWrU ydtYT1. 
J SY'p Y W-m nB0E-BKK0RRc 9
sssMU QFM mE -DDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD
wWMCQNb mf ^^7.
fQ hVu$ s9[9. J 2 5,C
Fk Afb h6i 
QFMO QMrr tg 
C Cb \ 
> NeM LYYE 6 
9 FNQAFMU 
b v QN[MC!
Dean
[Continued from page I] 
visory board of the YWCA and 
was advisor to Cwens and Mortar 
Board.
Mrs. Dickinson was a drama and 
music major at the Erskine school, 
Boston, Massachusetts, where she 
later became assistant to the head 
of the drama department. From 
there, this versatile new Dean 
joined the staff of WING radio 
station in the Dickinsons home
town, Dayton, Ohio.
While at WING, 
also coached speech students 
her alma mater, Oakwood 
school.
Although Mrs. Dickinson is still 
vitally interested in Tech and cam
pus life, she feels her time will be 
somewhat limited due to obliga
tions toward her husbands pro
fession. But her schedule already 
belies these time limitations 
because ,Mrs. Dickinson is once 
again busy meeting old friends, 
Braking new ones and capably 
handling the many details con
nected with her position.
The Dickinsons now reside in, 
appropriately, the President apart
ments, at 720 South Negley ave
nue.
ACS Symposium 
To Be Lectured 
By Dr. Warner
Dr. J. C. Warner, President of 
Carnegie Tech will address the 
American Chemical Society and 
the American Institute of Chem
ists Symposium on Public Rela
tions for Chemists at the Hotel 
Commodore on Thursday, Janu
ary 15. The topic of his address 
is The Professor and His Public.
His address is one of many in
teresting topics that will be discused during the all-day sym
posium.
Photo by SnydermanPANEL OF AMERICANS
Pictured from left to right are: Lois Simons, Dick Christen
sen, Dr. Edward Steinberg, Herb Buchwald, and Gwen Sheffey. 
Dick Foster, also a member, was not present.
*   * * * 
Carnegie Panel Of Americans 
Meets With City Officials Here
Five students, representing Carnegie Techs Panel of Americans, 
told an audience of city officials about their personal experiences 
concerning prejudice and intolerance. Last Monday evening they 
attended the Civic Unity Council meeting which was also attended 
by several members of the Ad-^ 
visory Council, the City Council, 
and Mayor David Lawrence.
The five panelists included 
Gwen Sheffy, Lois Simons, Dick 
Foster, Richard Christensen, and 
Herbert Buchwald. The moder
ator for the group was Mr. Erwin 
Steinberg, assistant professor of 
English at Carnegie Tech.
Attend Conference '
Two Carnegie students, Jewel 
Hairston and Dick Foster, rep
resented the panel at the midwestern conference of Panel of 
Americans in Cincinnati on De
cember 30 and 31. Jewel par
ticipated in a TV program 
told about typical questions asked 
panel members, and how they 
should attempt to answer them. 
The members of the visiting panel 
participated with those of the 
University of Cincinnati in a 
Panel Quizzes the Experts pro
gram. The directors of leading inter-group agencies in the city ex
plained the current economic and 
social situations there. A demon
stration panel program was 
before the national conference of 
[Continued on page 8]
residents Will Speak; 
Bids Given In March
Sorority rushing for the spring semester will officially begirt 
at the PanHell open house to be held on two daysSaturday, Janu
ary 31, 1953 from 1:15-5:00 p.m. and Sunday, February 1, from 
:00 p.m. All second semester freshmen, upperclassmen, and 
transfer students are invited. ?-
All interested girls will meet at 
Carnegie Union at 1:15 p.m. on 
Saturday and 2 p.m. on Sunday 
where Eunice Brunn and Betty 
Hurd will speak on rushing eti
quette and will answer questions. 
On Saturday the presidents of Sig
ma Kappa, Alpha Epsilon Phi, 
Delta Delta Delta, and Kappa Al
pha Theta will explain the finan
cial obligations, projects, Social af
fairs, etc, of their particular soror
ity. On Sunday the presidents of 
Kappa Kappa Gamma, Delta Gam
ma, and Chi Omega will discuss 
the same things with the girls.
Girls Urged To Attend
After hearing about the sorori
ties from the respective presidents 
at the Union, the girls will pro
ceed in groups to the fraternity 
houses where girls from the differ
ent sororities will meet them. 
Forty-five minutes will be spent 
with each group. PanHell urges 
interested girls to attend the open 
house both days in order to be
come acquainted with all the so
norities.
The two day open house begins 
four weeks of rushing which in
cludes luncheon dates, teas, and 
parties. All second semester fresh
men upperclassmen, and transfers 
who have completed one semester 
here may be invited to the teas, 
but only those with a minimum 
factor of 2.00 can be invited to the 
parties. Rushing will be carried on 
throughout February and bid? will 
be turned in at the beginning of 
March This rush period marks the 
first time that second semester 
fresmen are eligible to be rushed. 
Rushing rules may be obtained 
from the Assistant Dean of Stu
dents Office. If there are further 
questions, contact Betty Hurd or 
Eunice Brunn.
Slioot
Works
More BOUNCE to the Ounce
@iyTime will Ibll...
THERE MUST BE A REASON WHY Camel
is Americas most popular cigaretteleading all other brands by billions! 
Camels have the two things smokers 
want mostrich, full flat'or and cool, 
cool mildtiess...pack after pack! Try 
Camels for 30 days and see how mild, 
how flavorful, how thoroughly enjoy
able they are as your steady smoke!
*THAN ANY OTHER 
CIGARETTE!e a.[PBY sYP'RY C1P-Y AT1YRy
Girls Urged To Attend Open House

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, January 13, 1953
The Readers Retort
Several weeks ago the editors of the Tartan 
were so bold as to ask their readers opinion on the 
quality of the paper. Since then, some, though not 
many, students and faculty members have respond
ed to this request by turning in a questionnaire 
designed to sample reader opinion.
The results, as we might have suspected at the 
outset, were none too favorable toward many as
pects of the paper, but this can to a great extent 
be rationalized by the fact that somewhat less than 
one percent of the possible reading population re
sponded to our plea. In this sense it is fortunate 
for our egos that the response was so poor.
For those readers who are interested, we shall 
proceed t a review and analysis of those ques
tionnaires that were returned to us.
A total of 27 persons answered our request, of 
which some 23 were students. Of these, only two 
were Fine Arts students, and one was from MMCC. 
In E&S, the physics department came first with 
five responding; mechanical engineering was second 
with four, followed by mathematics and electri
cal engineering with three each. Judging from 
these figures, and from the actual distribution of 
students in the various departments around CIT, 
there arises some doubt as to the randomness of 
the sample.
A further breakdown of the student returns 
shows that 13 of those answering are dorm resi
dents, five are fraternity men, and five are com
muters.
Of the total of 27 documents we have to work 
we find that 11 feel that the good points of the 
Tartan outweigh its shortcomings, five actively 
dislike the paper, and 11 more seem more or less 
indifferent, although apparently not quite so in
different as the many who did not bother to answer 
at all. *
It seems amazing that one person, who professes 
to read absolutely nothing in the campus weekly 
managed to spot the questionnaire we printed and 
return it.
It would be rather dull and pointless to dis
cuss each individual reaction at length, but a few 
might be worthy of mention. In the space re
served for additional comments and remarks, the 
results ranged from such things as Why don't you 
quit? to On the Ball paper! Another thinks we 
should be more crusading, while a couple would 
like to see more space devoted to campus clubs 
and organizations.
One interesting reaction came from an instruc
tor in the physics department who has found noth
ing to his liking other than the WRCT schedule. 
Probably this is because this is the only feature 
that is tabulated in columns so that he*can under
stand it.
It wpuld be silly to continue any analysis with 
Fuch a small, and probably non-random sample, 
so we will not. But if any of our loyal (or other
wise) readers feels moved to comment on our ef
forts at producing a newspaper, we will be happy 
to hear from him (or her), and will do our best 
to take any constructive criticism to heart.
LIBRARY
QUIET PLEASE!
Editorial
Library Troubles
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. TELEPHONE: SChenley 1-4557, after hours MUseum
1-5380: for advertising and subscriptions: MUseum 2-3990. 
Published weekly, during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief .............  ..............  Fred Sonnenberg
Business Manager .................................................. David Goldsmith
Managing Editor ...................................................... Dick Durstine
Sports Editor ............................................................... Frank Fegley
New* Editor ............................................................... Estelle Herlick
Personnel ManagerDick Christensen. Features EditorBill 
Smith. Advertising ManagerStan Rosenberg. Assistant 
Business ManagerJerry Seiner. Circulation ManagerJoe 
LeMarca. Photography EditorMartin Snyderman. Reporters 
Sheila Sullivan, Jack Armour, Joan Ctimmerton, Jane 
Sunder, Dave Hubbard. Jackie Connolly, Marilyn Seiner, 
Ken Winston, Bill MinkJer. Cut) ReportersBarbara Leonard, 
Pat Maue. Joe Forsythe, Elaine Manuele, Ann Dwinelle, Doro
thy Downing, Mildred Magura, Dave Robertson, Mollie Rudy, 
Delore' Prus. Sports ReportersEdward Feigenbaum, Rob
ert Steiger, Gene OReilly, Dick Eppler, Ivr hechter, James 
Gore. Copj ReaderPaul Carmichael. Art StaffJoan Brech
in, Nelson Kelley, Dick Stahl. PhotographersBarbara Toia, 
Don Hand, Myron Lewis, Roger Gregory, Dick Wolfe.
Features StaffAndrew Stedry, Robert McQuaid, Lin Smith, 
Judy Storch TypistElayne Nord. Headline StaffVan An
derson, Pat Naugle, Dan Byers. Copy Make-Up StaffEllroy 
Young Advertising StaffRonald Greenwald, Vic Shiry, Mimi 
Stem, Joan Newman. Circulation StaffRalph Antonito.
Repiesented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD
VERTISING, Inc.. College Publishers Representative, 420 
Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscription *1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at
the Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3,
1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate of postage pro
vided for in the Act of February 28. 1925.
Member of tha Vsaociated College Pres*.
College or industryit seems that each must suffer a 
little while waiting for a program of expansion to catch up 
with it. Here at Tech we have been cramped since the War, 
and probably long before, >y a lack of space and facilities 
to handle all the functions of a school our size. Slowly we 
are working our way out of . this situation, for such a job 
is slow when money must be raised for each project and 
since two such projects going at once would mean closing 
school.
Carnegies growing pains appear to be centered in the 
library. According to those in high places a new library 
building was next on the construction program, but then 
several dilemmas developed that may have necessitated a 
change in this program. In fact, it is said that such was the 
status quo when the library officials conceeded to the build
ing of a new student union before the library.
All of this has been brought about by numerous cases of 
miss-use of the present library. According to the officials about 
everything is going on up in that corner of the third floor but 
what should be expected. People spend their lunch hour eat
ing in the library and playing cards, and few of them go there 
with the intent of studying. Besides the disturbance that this 
noise and confusion causes the students already studying, the 
use of the Library as a clubroom makes it impossible for many 
to find a seat when it is necessary that they use the facilities 
during those hours.
What sort of library instruction was given such students 
in their high schools? It is hard to imagine a library located 
anywhere that was not founded on the principle of absolute 
silence. But, regardless of a students past history, the fact 
that he is now a college student should be enough basis on 
which to demand correct use of the Library. This is not the 
place to argue about the relative benefits of each, but the 
student cafeteria, Skibo, is maintained on campus to handle 
card players and lunch eaters. However, if these students 
dont stop using the facilities wrongly, the Library will soon 
resemble a police state and may cease to be even a place to 
study without outlandish restrictions.
The rules of conduct to follow when under the jurisdiction 
of those who wield the combination pencil and rubber stamp 
are simple and should not cause much trouble. First, dont go 
to the library except to study or take out a book; second, dont 
go with the whole section which was assigned the problem; and 
third, practice the Golden Rule in borrowing books and news
papers as well as in maintaining an atmosphere condusive to 
study. Try to use the present campus facilities for group study
ing, get-togethers, and lunch eating. A short study session at 
the Carnegie Library down the street is about the best course 
in library conduct.
Maybe we need a place on campus to serve the students 
who desire the equivalent of a student union. Skibo at noon 
is an awful place to even speak to friends. All these lunch 
eaters place an additional, unnecessary burden on the Skibo 
help. Around the confines of Administration hall during 
the lunch hours can be found many empty rooms which 
could be used for card games, etc., if renovated slightly. 
This is a poor approach to any solution, but seems to be 
the quickest way out. Its easy to turn someone away from 
your doors when they have somewhere to go; but otherwise 
theres only hard feelings.
Inquiring Reporter
Student Opinion 
Favors King Campaign
by Dick Wolfe
The question asked this week by the inquiring 
reporter was Do you think the King of Hearts 
campaign should be continued and if so what 
purpose does it serve?
Ralph Drischell, senior, dramatI definitely 
think the King of Hearts cam
paign should continue. Although 
I havent been able to participate 
in a campaign since my fresh
man year, I feel that it is one of 
the few extra-curricula collegi
ate activities that warrants merit 
in the true rah rah spirit. (The 
latter is not a pun). It is a fine 
diversion especially for the 
freshman class who this year 
seemed to have fine spirit in the 
-year. It seems to me that this is an Important 
thing to the majority of the students.
As far as I can tell the King of Heartis Cana-, 
paign is a good example of what is glibbly termed 
as college spirit. It seems that every so often arti
cles appear in various campus publications be
moaning the lack of school spirit. This would be 
a much better way of showing school spirit than 
raiding Pitt and PCW after a football victory. 
Sorlee Gefsky, junior, painting and design 
I definitely feel there should 
be a King of Hearts campaign. 
The fraternity men rarely display 
their talents around campus. Let 
them entertain the women of 
CIT for a change. King of 
Hearts campaign is a traditional 
project which Tech students look 
forward to. It arouses some of 
||| that much needed school spirit 
which students are complaining 
Tech lacks. Competition is high 
and such a campaign creates spirit and liveliness 
which breaks the monotony of the school year. The 
variety of things put on in this campaign liven up 
the campus to a great extent at a time when it is 
needed.
I have talked to students from other colleges 
where no such campaign takes place. They have 
shown quite an interest in it. In this way the 
school is obtaining favor in the eyes of outsiders. 
Ned Clark, junior, physicsThe present King 
of Hearts apathy among the fra
ternities as well as the school in 
general seems to be a result of 
mis-handling along the line. I 
am not aiming this remark at 
Mortar Board, because I feel 
that, comparatively speaking, 
they have done a good job.
The trouble seems first to 
come from the type of campaign 
that is expected. Very few fra|| 
ternity men seem to enjoy mak
ing a fool out of themselves, and unless you do go 
overboard along the ridiculous trail someplace you 
might as well sit at home.
Obviously, I am not impressed with King oi 
Hearts the way I have seen it run for the past 
two years. I can, however, think of two solu
tions. One being to run it like the Military Queen 
campaign, and then its only purpose would be to 
have a Campus King or such.
The second, and more preferable to me, would 
be to have a new slant. For example hold campus 
Olympics with the -participants only candidates, 
or say have a series of campaign speeches on a 
chosen subject, the speakers being only candidates, 
and written competition. There should be a mil
lions others too. So take it away, Mortar Board. 
Pat Barrett, drama, juniorI definitely think 
the King of Hearts contest ought 
to be continued. First of all it 
is a great morale booster to all 
the men who run for it, and "they 
certainly need it at this time of 
the year. Secondly, it is not only 
a contest which the fraternities 
are a part of, but it also brings 
the Independents together in 
campaigning for their candidates. 
And thirdly, the campaigning is 
eagerly awaited by the girls at 
Tech. Stopping it would cause a tremendous emo
tional upheaval at the dorms and goodness knows 
what would be the result.
There are also other factors which make it 
essential to hold the King of Hearts contest. Skibo 
and the daily haunt of the Tech students, such as 
the cut, the bulletin boards, the corridors of both 
academic and non-academic buildings, the womens 
dormitory, and above all the Greeks become in
finitely colorless and dull around this time of 
year.

---------------------------------------------------

Photo by Lewis
Volleyball Champs
Sigma Alpha Epsilons volleyballers beam after downing the Sekuds to win the school 
championship. Standing, left to right, are: Ned Clark, Ed Puchy, Jim McCune, and Bob Snow. 
Kneeling are John Salay, Ed Possesky, and Ron Hughmanick.
by Hobart Phillips 
TABLE TENNIS
In games played the week of 
December 10, Theta Xi A down
ed Kappa Sigma as ATO O took 
measure of the Phi Kappa B 
team Theta Xi A with five wins 
and ATO O and Pi Kappa Alpha 
both showing three wins to remain 
undefeated in the Democratic 
^league.
The top game in the Republican 
league found the Obelisks taking 
over first place by defeating ATO 
*T 3-1.
Sigma Nu and ATO T with
three and one records trail the un
defeated Obelisks who have four 
wins.
POOL
In the 8 Ball league, SAE 
purple with a record of 5-0 fin
ished in first place. Close behind 
the winners were Sigma Nu and 
Pi Kappa Alpha.
Theta Xi ended play in the 
Cue Ball league posting a 4-1 
record. However the Obelisks and 
Kappa Sigma teams are still in the 
race, both showing identical marks 
of three wins as against one de
feat.
CIT Forward Nobby Ackerman 
Was All-State In High School
*> By Jim Gore
The 1952 season offers Nobby Ackerman, one of the better bas
ketball prospects at Tech, a chance to really show his stuff.
Nobbys formal basketball career commenced when he was in 
the seventh grade and he has been playing ever since.
Upon leaving grammar school*, 
he enrolled as a freshman at Irwin 
high, a small school sporting an 
enrollment of about 200 students.
That year Nobby played forward 
I and has remained in that position 
throughout his high school and 
college career. Although his game 
improved during his first two 
years at Irwin high it was dur
ing the last two years that Nobby 
really hit his stride. That 1949-50 
season was a great one for Irwin 
too, sending them all the way to 
the state finals before losing. Pot-1- 
ting 380 points that year, Nobby 
led his team and his district in 
scoring. In his senior session he 
'' was co-captain of the squad and 
again took scoring honors amass
ing a grand total of 420 points. His 
biggest single night was against 
Mt. Vernon when Nobby' dropped 
34 markers through the hoop.
During these two seasons he was 
voted all WPIAL (Western Penn
sylvania Interscholastic Athletic 
League), all district, all section, 
and last but not least, all state. j 
Upon graduation in 1950, Nobby |
*was admitted to Carnegie in the , 
civil engineering department. !
When he tried out for the fresh| 
man basketball squad, Coach j 
Cratsley decided he was good i 
enough to play varsity. Although 
he saw action on last years varj 
sity, Nobby is a starter on this sea
sons squad.
Basketball has always been Nobbys big sport but he also efijoys j 
% skiing. He hopes to really make 1 
k good in 53 and in his last couple 
of outings has shown that he is 
well on his way to a solid basket
ball future at Tech.
WAA Basketball
The Faculty Bulldogs got off to 
a good start in the WAA basket
ball league by downing Sigma 
Kappa, 54-11, and Freshmen A, 
34-14 to take the league leadership. 
Miss Jane Fisk paced the victory 
in both games with 24 and 14 
points.
The Freshmen A came back to 
down Kappa Alpha Theta soror
ity, 25-11, JoAnn Diehl and Nancy 
Haney shared scoring honors with 
nine points apiece.
In other games, Freshmen B 
trounced the Tri Delts, 33-1 and 
Chi Omega beat Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, 37-20.
Basketball Standings
Team Won Lost
Faculty 2 0
Freshmen B 10
Chi Omega 1 0
Freshman A 11
Delta Gamma 0 0Science Club 0 0
Kappa Kappa Gamma 0 1
Sigma Kappa 0 1
Kappa Alpha Theta 0 1
Delta Delta Delta 0 1
By Frank Fegley
Members of the playoff teams dominate the all-school volley
ball squad with Ed Puchy and Ed Possesky of the champion SAB 
George Bushey, Kaye Thompson, Roger Cunningham, and 
* Jack Hoover of the runner-up
Gigantic Roundup
of
BOOK
BARGAINS
CTRY CBTtBy 
QIty3TSp cTE9 h.. 
<
- Shop Early 
For Real Values!!
JC QsM
The following are the team line
ups for the intramural basketball 
season starting in February.
Mens Intramural League 
American League
BTP B .
Phi Kappa B
DTD
PiKASlugs
Beta Sigma Rho
CitcomASCE
Bagdad AC 
Newman Club B
National League
Freshman Flashes
Rockets
ATO A
Rinky Dinks 
Sekuds
Sigma Nu BDU B
Hillbillies 
Theta Xi A*Federal League 
Sigma Nu A
Arkens 
Obelisks 
Theta Xi BSprockets 
Hi-Towers 
DU A
SAERepublican League
TDP
Kappa Sig ARoopsips
Graduates
Demons
Phi Kappa A**Soph Pigskins 
Newman Club A
squads being named to the seven 
man team. Jack Alexander of al
so ran Citcom completed the ros
ter.
Seven Man Team
Seven men were elected to the 
all-star team instead of the regu
lar six because of a deadlock in 
the balloting. The selections were 
made by a panel consisting of the 
Tartan sports staff and the intra
mural supervisors.
The All-Star Team 
SplkersPuchy, SAE
Thompson, SN 
Hoover, Sekuds 
SettersAlexander, Citcom 
Bushey, SN 
Possesky, SAE 
ServerCunningham, Sekuds
Puchy Outstanding 
Ed Puchy, Sigma Alpha Epsi
lons captain was chosen as the 
most valuable volleyball player. 
His aggressiveness, leadership, de
ceptiveness, and spiking were key 
factors in the teams successful bid 
for the school championship.
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
rMbfUC [MbC CFs
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
The most dashing 
men on campus wear 
Arrow Gordon Oxfords
irroiv Cordon Dover: 
ulton-Jou n classic, $1.50.
ARROW
.SHIRTS  TIIS  UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEFS  SPORTS SHIRTS.
O eMbM MMCM
AUFHAMMER & EVANS, INC.
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
Tuesday, January 13, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage 9
Tartan All-School 
Volleyball Squad
Puchy9 Thompson and Cunningham 
Unanimous Choices Of IM Panel

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, January 13, 1953
Penn State Cagers Down Plaid, 62-51
---------------- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Winless-At-Home Scots 
Engage Pitt Tomorrow
With the Penn State Blue and White showing much of their 
vaunted power, the Tech Tartans were again on the short end of 
the score when the final whistle went in last Fridays basketball 
encounter. The pre-game favorites from State College held a steady 
lead throughout the first half then* 
widened it in the third quarter to 
win 62-51.
The first half featured a scrappy 
Plaid outfit striving mightily to 
keep pace with the taller opposi
tion. Most of the Clan scoring was 
done from the outside as the Penn 
defense was pretty hard to crack. 
Nobby Ackerman showed the way 
totalling nine big points before the 
half time buzzer sounded. With 
most of his teammates feeding to 
him, big Jesse Arnelle, of football 
fame, paced the Penn lads by pop
ping 13 markers through the hoop 
to lead the scorers for the opening 
twenty minutes.
Third Quarter Tells
However the Blue and White 
began to pull away during the 
third period and thanks to slick 
field-goal shooting moved to a 14 
point advantage. It wasnt an easy 
matter though as the Plaid, led by 
eo-captain Tommy Craig stole the 
sphere time and time again, but 
they couldnt make all their shots 
count so they fell behind.
With only a few minutes remainTECH
Hyams
CraigThompson
Jeske
Mocker
Daniels
Dosey
Fieler
Ackerman
Total
Tech
Fieldg oil is Fouls 
t 1
S 1
3 1
S 00 20 11 0
2 4
3 X
19
Penn State
Field1?
TotalPts.
5117 21X8 
51
ing in the fourth period the Tar
tans turned on the heat and slip
ped eight points through the hoop; 
however all went for nought as the 
buzzer ended the contest.
Craig led the Scot scorers net
ting 11, all in the last half, with 
Ackerman and Thompson follow
ing with nine and seven respec
tively. Thompsons three field 
goals were the spectacular kind all 
being potted from way out. Again 
excessive Tech personals played 
a big part as the Nittany Lions 
went to the foul line ten more 
times than the homesters.
Photo by Gregory
Too Much Blue and White
Penn State basketeers Jack Shemy and Jesse Arnelle along 
with Herm Sledzill, center, gang up on Dick Fieler as Walt Mc
Ginnis looks on. State won 62-51.
Unbeaten Swimmers 
Beat Alleghenyp 41-34
Carnegie Techs swimming team 
remained undefeated by beating 
Allegheny, 43-34, at Meadville on 
January 10. The results were as 
follows:
300-yard medley relay: 1Tech (Coul
ter, Aiken, Kramer). Time3:15.8.
220-yard free style: 1White (A); 2 
Brand (A); 3Reuther (T). Time
2:30.9.
60-yard free style: 1Guz (T); 2 
Fisher (A); 3Perry (A). Time1:22.1.
120-yard individual medley: 1Muir
(A); 2Poulson (A); 3Weddell (T). 
Time1:22.1.
100-yard free style: 1Kramer (T); 
2Sayer (A); 3Guz (T). Time:57.3.
200-yard backstroke: 1Coulter (T); 
2MacDonald (T); 3Bailey (A). Time 
2:32.9.
200-yard breaststroke: 1Aiken (T); 
2Poulson (A); 3Ertle (A). Time 
2:43.6.*
440-yard free style: 1White (A); 2 
Drew (T); 3Brand (A). Time5:28.0.
400-yard free style; 1Guz (T).
f)
PENN STATE 
Sledzik 
Piorkowski 
Arnelle 
SherryWiedenhammer
HaagBill
Total
Total 
goals Fouls Pts. 
3 3 14
3 3 9
4 * 14
3 7 132*6 
2 0 410 2
1862
Score by Quarter* 
Tech
Penn State
1st 2nd 3rd 4th
11 26 36 5118 33 48 62
Fraternities and Sororities
Open An Account and Get 
rOVK ftLL DISCOUNTfJrfbU FfUkfM
3606 FORBES ST.
M&sMNMbAMU QOsNCQ
Desires Work at Home 
JA 1-5913 
MO 1-2662
RENT A TYPEWRITER
iu9VV
A Month
3 MONTHS 
FOR $109
TYPEWRITERS
All Kind* a* Low as$29.50
f1Yt0dTE QS'Yot0BYt AP9
11 Wood St. (0.1-1019
Convenient Parking
lPt BY MCQ
IH 
Photographic 
Eqa;pm*nt and Supplio%
Liberty 
Photo 
Supply
GR 1-6467 .  436 Wood St.
Thiihstle ifi 9K i/>srt dl i/t ett/rw dout/
(ff 
mm Decs m
THE BEL AIR SERIES
BP LY dP1'TtY3 PERS o0B 
0!YtD't0dY3 dTty.
The glamorous Bel Air Series 
for 1953 is truly a new kind 
of Chevrolet. Four new Bel 
Air models4-Door Sedan, 
2-Door Sedan, Convertible, 
Sport Coupecreate a won
derful new class of cars.
An entirety new Idnd of Chovrolot In an entirely now field all its owe
THE "TWO-TEN SERIES
yYEyTB0PETR T3KTEdYy ,tP1 
LI1'Yt BP LI1'Yt.
The Two-Ten Series offers: 
two new station wagonsthe 
Townsman and Two-Ten 
Handymanthe 4-Door, 2- 
Door, Convertible, Club 
Coupe and Sport Coupe.
/^/naz/'Agly eco/iom/csi/
THE "ONE-FIFTY SERIES
RPoYyB 't0dY3 P, TRR qITR0BS 
dTty.
Smart new Chevrolet styling 
and advanced features! Five 
models include the 4-Door 
and 2-Door Sedans, Club 
Coupe, Business Coupe, OneFifty Handyman.
pNrQNt AFMerMQD
The great new Chevrolet line for 1953 
brings you a car for any purpose. 
Choose high-compression power with 
the new 115-h.p. Blue-Flame engine 
teamed with new Powerglide* foivthe 
finest automatic driving. Or choose the 
high-compression 108-h.p. Thrift(Continuation of standard equipment and trim Illus
trated is dependent om availability of material.)
King engine for finest standard driv
ing. Choose the improved standard 
steering, or new Power Steering, op
tional at extra cost. v
Come in and see the most wonder
ful selection in the low-price field 
and its yours at lowest cost!
MORE PEOPLE BUY CHEVROLETS 
THAN ANY OTHER CARI
*Combination of Powerfiide automatic transmission and 115-h.p. "BlueFlame engine optional on "Two-Ten" and Bel Air models at extra cost.
A/EtiS /ifouyf 3/v/, i/)/vug/i/
CMM NQ fQ OW AFMerMQ UMfrMC.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, January IS, 1953CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
Today Is Birthday 
Of Man Who Made 
Holes In Heads
By Andy Stedry
January 13 has seen the birth 
of many famous men and no doubt 
the death of many others. How
ever, in the course of rather 
imited research into the lives of 
^the former, I have found four who 
were born on this date, three 
alive, one deceased. For reasons 
which will soon appear obvious 
I have chosen the exception. If 
there are any readers (I should 
have stopped here) who have had 
the pleasure of being born on said 
date and feel slighted, my deep
est apologies, and of course, my 
-.best wishes.
' One hundred and ten years ago 
today a baby was born! He was 
christened David Ferrier, Jr. after 
his father. The birth took place 
in a little Scottish town whose 
name will long be remembered. 
Little did the townspeople know 
that David was to be the cause of 
many holes in the head. (For 
evidence supporting this state
ment please see below). His father 
(whose name is intuitively obvi^ous) sent him abroad to be edu
cated at Heidelberg university 
and then (not his father this time, 
but he) returned to the University 
of Edinburgh in Scotland to study 
for his MD.
Dogs First
Very soon, Dr. Ferrier started 
his research on the human brain: 
first he used dogs, then monkeys, 
but he never used human beings 
ior his experiments. He was ac- costed daily by the anti-vivisectionists who objected to his using 
animals, (two inferences possible 
they wished him to study dead 
dogs or live humans). After ten 
years of experimentation on dogs 
and monkeys he concluded that 
the human cerebrum is occupied 
by many centers or exchanges 
which preside over the formulsftion of sensations into purposive 
groups of motions.
The proof of this statement is 
left as an exercise for the student. 
Although not acquainted with C715, he proceeded logically, and 
others afterward proceeded logi
cally to the intuitively obvious 
conclusion that; it is possible for 
the clinical physician to deter
mine the exact position of the 
disease <mental) and in a few 
cases that he may be enabled to 
open the skull above the part 
.^affected and to extirpate itop
erations which are surely a tri
umph of science and technical 
skill!
Elected To FRS
For discovering these facts and 
enabling physicians to make holes 
in human skulls with somewhat 
sharp instruments in spite of the 
protests of the anti-vivisectionists, he was elected to FRS (obThe easiest-writm 
portable ever built I
Royal Portable hold the official World' 
Portable Speed Championship a shown 
in the current World' almanac.
See ft Here.4
Terms as low as $1.25 Weekly
lQ sNQQ
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty Avenue
AT 1-8320
 SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS  RENTALS
Obfongcita. j~^anerS
Three Registrars
Translated from the Original Runic by R. Durstine
Once upon a time there was an institution of higher learning 
which employed (among other persons) a registrar, an assistant 
registrar, and an assistant assistant registrar, who were well known 
for dispatching their respective jobs to the complete satisfaction of 
the administration of the college. ?
But it happened one year, just 
three days before registration time, 
that the registrar was offered by 
the United States government a 
high paying position trapping and 
classifying anteaters in northern 
Wisconsin. Since this was the sort 
of thing the registrar liked to do, 
he took the job and left school.
So the assistant registrar took 
over, just as assistants are destin
ed to do. However, while going 
home the evening following the 
second day of registration, he took 
the wrong trail across the misty 
bog which separated the institu
tion from civilization and was lost 
forever in the quicksands that
viously an ignorant fraternity 
which has not learned about 
Greek letters). Having concluded 
his work he became professor of 
neuro-pathology at Kings college 
in London, and died there March 
19, 1928. This last fact is of no 
relevance with the exception of 
the fact that he obviously has 
not and could not read this bi
ography.
abounded in that area.
This left the second assistant in 
charge of registration and in 
possession of innumerable cards 
and more useless information than 
could ever be used by anyone ex
cept a professor of economics. But 
he was now top man and got a 
raise in pay, so dont feel too sorry 
for him (yet).
But the second assistant regis
trar was a nervous man. He 
couldnt stand ' strain, and he
SnS Calls
Scotch n Soda, Carnegies 
all-campus musical produc
tion, will hold its first casting 
calls on February 14 and 21.
All students, regardless of 
class or previous experience, 
who are interested in either 
singing, acting, or dancing are 
urged to appear. More infor
mation will appear in the 
TARTAN following the vaca
tion.
couldnt stand distraction. He car
ried an hourglass because he 
couldnt bear the ticking of a watch 
(one of those self-winding hour
glasses that renew themselves 
with the natural motions of your 
arm); and always ate eggs for 
breakfast so he would not have to 
listen to the snap, crackle, etc., of 
the cereal as it languishes in the 
bowl before being consumed.
After three hours on the final 
day of registration, this man, long 
a nervous wreck, was getting 
worse and worse under the strain 
of the responsibility that had fall
en to him through no choice of his 
own. (Now you can feel sorry for 
him if you like.)
But he kept at it and registered 
people until he (and they, as is the 
custom at registration) was (and 
were) blue in the face (faces). 
That is, he registered them until 
all of a sudden something snap
ped, and he decided to end it all.
But he did not do anything so 
simple as to do away with himself.
Rather he took all the rectangu
lar cards with the rectangular 
holes and shuffled them and threw 
them around the room.
He did likewise with the round 
cards with the round holes, and 
the rectangular cards with no
holes, and those long strips of 
paper that ask you 23 times what 
your Pittsburgh address is and 
what state of the union it is in.
Then he destroyed all the class 
schedules and teaching assign
ments, and finally sat down on the 
floor and said that he guessed 
there would be no more register
ing for a while, which suited him 
just fine.
After four days of searching, the 
president of the institution found 
a copy of the current catalog and 
called the instructors together to 
ask them to do the best they could 
without knowing what to teach, 
who to teach it to, or where.
So they did.
All the students who really 
wanted to study did so. And every
one who did not want to, spent his 
time in Skibo (the profits of which 
tripled to make it second only to 
AT&T in net earnings for the 
quarter). And everybody was hap
py except three secretaries who 
had been hired to straighten out 
the mess left by the assistant as
sistant registrar, whose resignation 
had been accepted some time ago.
Moral: No moral; do we always 
have to have a moral?
Coming soon: Life under the Ob
longata Plan.
Your I.D. CARD Meansh% P,,
QN[M CFs
 Watch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts
 Watches  Jewelry
 Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
THE TECHNICAL MAN IN
Scientists who know both people and processes 
are needed to keep Du Ponts 71 plants humming
H. D. Tollman, B. S. in Industrial Administration, Yale 37, checks on product 
loading methods in Du Ponts Belle, West Va., synthetic urea plant.
Keeping production rolling in a mod
ern industrial plant is a job that ap
peals to men trained inmany branches 
of science and engineering. If you are 
looking for opportunities in this field, 
you wont have to look far at DuPont, 
where nearly half the entire technical 
force is assigned to production su
pervision.
To qualify, a man must have the 
ability to understand both the me
chanical and chemical phases of pro
duction. In addition, he*should be a 
good planner and, above all, have a 
knack for handling people.
The production supervisorthere 
are several levels at Du Ponthas
three important areas of responsi
bility. The first is to the men work
ing for him. He must be able to ap
praise them skillfully and assign 
duties accordingly. He must train 
them not only in the efficient opera
tion of equipment but in safe work
ing practices as well.
A second responsibility is to the 
customer. He must get the product 
out on time and provide uniformly 
high quality at che lowest possible 
cost. When demand for a product is 
subject to rapid fluctuations, he must 
be prepared to make quick readjust
ments in the scheduling of both man
power and materials.
William Cttelgren, B. S. in M. Armour 
Institute of Technology 38, explains quality 
control methods to a group erf Du Pont pro
duction supervisors.
The supervisors third responsibil
ity is to the higher management. 
Here, again, quality and cost are 
important factors. He is expected 
to prepare forecasts, to justify un
usual expenditures, and to suggest 
process improvements leading to 
greater yield and better quality at 
lower costs.
One of the toughest nuts a pro
duction supervisor has to crack is the 
scheduling of preventive mainte
nance for minimum interference with 
production. In some companies where 
products are turned out in small-unit 
operations, a program of breakdown 
maintenance suffices. At Du Pont, 
however, where large-unit operations 
are the rule, unscheduled downtime 
is costly and something to be avoided 
whenever possible.
Since it makes over 1200 products 
and product lines, Du Pont can offer 
to men interested in production su
pervision opportunities in many 
types of operations. In the next issue 
of the Digest, we will describe a spe
cific production operation in one of 
our 71 plants.
36-PAGE BOOK, The Du Pont Com
pany and the College Graduate,* descr ibesoppor t unities for men and women 
with many types of scientific training. 
For copy, write: 2521 Nemours Build
ing, Wilmington, Delaware.
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING
.. . THROUGH CHCMtSTKY
Listen to Cavalcade of America, Tuesday Nights o< 
NBCSee It Every Other Wednesday on NBC TV

---------------------------------------------------

fie* CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, January 13, 1953
ue<atr1 * M>i tonico t.s* t Kef5 tommpvtm eft.
Council Installs 
New Members
With the coming of the new 
members elected last December, 
Student Council started off the 
New Year by electing a new chief 
executive, who will serve for the 
spring term. Named to the post 
was Dick Christensen, sophomore 
physics major, and a second se
mester member of Council. Ray 
Sebulsky polled the second largest 
vote to become vice-president.
Installed as new members at 
the meeting were the following: 
from E&S, Bob Byrne, Fred Dill, 
Simon Kellman, Dale Kirkbride, 
and Jim Murphy; from H&SS, 
Gerald Houck; from FA, Bob Pile; 
and from MMCC, Carol Moberg, 
Mary Ellen Ruth, and Gaye 
Damich, who will serve as assist
ant secretary.
In his final report of the semes
ter, retiring president Dick Frank
lin outlined the accomplishments 
of SC for the fall term. These in
cluded the establishment of an in
tra-school publicity committee; 
the sponsoring of the Kiltie band 
trip to Bethany; the organization 
of a Carnegie pep squad; the ap
proval of several new organiza
tional constitutions; the revision 
of class smoking rules; a loan of 
$500 to WRCT; and the amend
ment of its own constitution to 
include members from several
Old Clothes
The World Relatedness 
Commission of the YWCA will 
sponsor the collection of wear
ing apparel, boots, and school 
supplies for the poor and 
needy in foreign lands. Stu
dents are being asked to bring 
these items back with them 
next semester to place in box
es which will be placed in 
Skibo and Morewood Gardens. 
You can help the homeless 
families by generously donat
ing to this campus-wide cam
paign.
campus organizations to be add
ed to those Council members who 
are elected directly from the stu
dent body.
WE0KYty0BS YdtYTB0PE
krNbH
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
407-09 CRAIG STREET 
SCheniey 1-9307
--------------------------------------------Jj
Patronize Our 
Advertisers
For Better 
Dry Cleaning99p
hDFW 
CMeNAM
yrAT1'Iy ARYTEYty
u6Vv lPtLYy CB9
ROUGH, DRY p 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY 
w 
12 Inch
[MQfr WrMC 
lMM BP fRR 
A9N9Q9 CBI3YEBy
"I smoked Chesterfield in collegeI smoke 'em now. Head 
this ad and youll know why I say... MUCH M/IDER
AFMCQMlNMrU NC MCQ l [M.
~5cu>wU.y, JbJjlMJLA/ NORTHWESTERN UNIV. '52
NOW... Scientific 
Evidence on Effects 
of Smoking!
A
medical specialist is making regular bi
monthly examinations of a group of people 
from various walks of life. 45 percent of this 
group have smoked Chesterfield for an average 
of over ten years.
After eight months, the medical specialist 
reports that he observed...
no adverse effects on the nose, throat and 
sinuses of the group from smoking Chesterfield
\
MUCH MILDERCHESTERFIELD
IS BEST FOR YOU
Copyright 195J, Lttccn & Mvu A[ NQ
Thistle
tContinued from page 1] 
who are unfavorable toward this 
new plan. If ^fche person desires 
such refund, he must file an ap
plication at the spring registra
tion line. He will receive said 
amount in May, the former date 
of distribution of the yearbook. If 
there are any complaints concern
ing the change in the 1953 publi
cation please write The Thistle, 
Box 259, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh 13, or The 
Thistle through intra-school mail.
Panel
tContinued from page 3]
Speech Teachers by the panel 
group from Wayne university.
The Panel of Americans can 
best be described as a good will 
speaking team. Composed of a 
Catholic, Jew, Protestant, Negro, 
and a naturalized American, it 
attempts to explain facts about 
intolerance and prejudice. It offers 
audiences the opportunity of be
coming acquainted with young 
people whose backgrounds and 
beliefs differ.
A/O A\OQE 
PV/INQ SAVC&SS 
f&fiL MB.- 
/T*S CH&Ap&JZ.roco QVBtue etoae
A NO
[Cont[i uedp
ycwe. 7&P ON A 
COAV&ij*0l-Biae&ocs 
rfirm
SERVING MARYLAND, OHIO. PENNSYLVANIA, 
VIRGINIA AND WEST VIRGINIA FROM
Liberty Ave. at Grant St., Pittsburgh, Fa. CO 1-1800
