daran
Co Tr-o/
dar VIII. No. 23nVI.No2N 3.Mc2chcN a1 ,N94.araoWi t2ccMehIo4i tN..MWrvV.2VMarch 12, 1914
STAG DANCE A 
GREAT SUCCESS
WESJINGNOUSE TRACK 
MEET SATURDAY
LARGE NUMBER TURN OUT WINNER WILL OBTAIN POSFOR FIRST SOCIAL. SESSION OF SMITH TROPHY.
With everyone assuring his fellow 
it was the time of his life, the Stag 
Dance in the Machinery Hall labora
tory, Saturday night, March 7th, proved 
the auspicuous beginning of a series of 
social good times for the Science stu
dents, for which the ways and means 
committee of the ladies of the faculty 
is responsible.
When near the close of the evening, 
the question of another affair was raised, 
the demand for another in two weeks 
was loud and unanimous.
During the progress of the evening 
the attendance steadily increased, especi
ally after the basketball game, until one 
hundred and fifty students were pres
ent. Although the attendance was well 
divided among the classes, the Sopho
mores probably had the largest, and the 
Plebes the smallest percent representa
tion. Since the affairs are especially 
for the Plebes, all who possibly can 
should sieze this opportunity for getting 
acquainted with the faculty, their wives, 
and the upper classmen.
In the plans for the next time, the 
providing of the music and eats is to 
be reversed; the students furnish the 
eats and the women of the faculty 
the music. However, the assessment 
will not exceed the ten-cent one of last 
Saturday.
The plans were thoroughly prepared, 
so that there was not a stale moment 
the whole evening. The system of 
marking, impressed by Mrs. Leete, on 
each person at entrance, was a splendid 
plan for getting people acquainted, for 
the colored streamer at the lapel and the 
name tag in his buttonhole told the 
class, person, and sex of each one, in
cluding the faculty and their wives. The 
distribution of colors was the green to 
the Seniors, the blue of Science to the 
Juniors, the orange of M. M. C. S. to 
the Sophomores, and the white of inno
cence to the Plebes.
The good time of the evening began 
with the old fashioned square dances, 
which were continued till about nine 
oclock. Then a period of two-steps, 
one-steps, tango, and other society 
dances followed, in which many a bash
ful Plebe or upperclassman made his 
first try at dancing. The Plebes especi
ally were encouraged and helped by the 
women of the faculty, to whose untiring 
efforts the success of the evening is 
due.
Continued on Page 3
TWO GAMES REDR. GERWIG ADMAIN ON SCHEDULE DRESSES ASSEMBLY
GENEVA AND ALLEGHENY 
CLOSE SEASON.
For the third consecutive year, the 
track teams of Westinghouse Club and 
Carnegie will battle for honors on Sat
urday night in the gymnasium of the 
first mentioned combatant. In 1912, 
when the series was started, the Smith 
Drug Company, of Wilkinsburg, offered 
a loving cup to the contestant who could 
win the dual affair, the best two out 
of three times. That year Westinghouse 
Club was victorious, but last winter 
Tech, succeeding in capturing the ma
jority of points, and placing itself on 
even terms with its rival. So that the 
permanent possessor of the handsome 
trophy will be decided by the outcome 
of the 1914 meet, day after tomorrow.
Tech is relying chiefly on its strength 
in the dashes, the long distance races, 
the high jump and pole vault, to win, 
while places in most of the other events 
seem assured. The team has been prac
ticing daily, unless prevented by the 
weather, for the past five weeks, and is 
in fairly good condition. The small 
track and the fact that no spiked shoes 
are permitted to be worn, are disadvan
tages, however, which visitors must 
overcome if they expect to make a cred
itable showing. Judging from previous 
results, our chances for meeting the dif
ficulties successfully, are about even.
In track, as in all other sports, cheer
ing helps. A large band of rooters is 
urged to accompany the team to Wil
kinsburg Saturday night. The gymnas
ium of the Westinghouse Club in which 
the meet will be held, is located at 501 
Penwood street, along the railroad. The 
men who will compete for Tech will be 
chosen from the following list of entries 
and they are requested to report at the 
Field House Friday afternoon to receive
final instructions.
30-yd. dashHemmann, Kirk, Rauh, 
Dunstein, Vierheller.
880-yard runFinley, MacMillan, Hasleton, Reiser, Handelman, Campbell. 
Running Broad JumpPatterson, Hulett, Wright, King.
220-yard dashHemmann, Kirk, Rauh,
Dunseith, Langfelder.
1-mile RunHaselton, MacMillan, 
Handelman, Reiser, Moore, Campbell.
Running High JumpKing, Wright,
Vierheller, Crisswell.
440-yard RunDunseith, Rauh, Finley, 
Langfelder.
2-mile RunHaselton, MacMillan, ReisContinued on Page 3
But two games remain on the basket
ball schedule for the season of 1914. 
The first of these with Geneva, is 
booked for tomorrow night. Unfortu
nately, the list of contests was arranged 
before the date of the home concert of 
the musical clubs was announced. Man
ager Wright of the basketball team, is 
endeavoring to avoid the conflict of 
these attractions by postponing the Ge
neva game. At the time of writing, no 
definite announcement could be given 
out. If a change is made, notices to that 
effect will be posted on the bulletin 
boards in the various schools. Unless 
informed to the contrary, therefore, the 
game will begin as usual at 8:15 ;.t the 
Field House. Should the players miss 
the concert of the musical clubs, they 
will at least, be able to attend the dance. 
When the overtime victory against Ge
neva in the first engagement is recalled, 
the prospects for another close contest 
are very bright.
The second game of the week and 
perhaps the final one of the season, will 
be played at home Saturday night with 
Alleghenythe team at whose hands 
Tech received its worst defeat of the 
year. The Varsity will put forth every 
effort to prevent a repetition of such a 
spectacle, and is hopeful of closing the 
1914 schedule with victory.
Watch the bulletin board for an
nouncement of any change in the date 
of playing the Geneva game.
HOME CONCERT STARTS 
PROMPTLY AT 8:15.
CARNEGIE CHORAL CLUB.
Owing to the changes in schedule, due 
to the beginning of a new semester, it 
has been found necessary to change 
the days of rehearsal of the Choral Club.
Mr. McDowell has most kindly 
agreed to give more of his time and 
hold two rehearsals a week, on Tues
day afternoon and on Friday afternoon, 
at 4 oclock. He hopes that all members 
of the club will be able to come on one, 
or both, of these days.
There is much to be done by the club 
and the hearty co-operation of all its 
members is earnestly desired.
DELIVERS TALK TO INDUS
TRIES STUDENTS.
According to an editorial in the last 
issue of the Evergreen Washington 
State College now claims the title of 
The Cornell of the Northwest.
After a brief business session of the 
Assembly of the School of Applied In
dustries, held last Wednesday afternoon, 
endorsing the selection of L. F. Kuhman, Plebe, as Second Assistant Base
ball Manager, the meeting was turned 
over to a lecture arranged by the fac
ulty. The speaker, introduced by Dean 
Connelley, was Dr. George W. Gerwig, 
Secretary of the Board of Public Edu
cation. His address was enthusiastically 
received.
The following is an extract::
At a recent meeting in Philadelphia, 
Dean Connelley made the following 
statement: The typical American gen
tleman is equally at home in overalls 
and in a dress-suit. This statement 
like those of many wise men contains 
more than appears on the surface. Most 
American men are unwilling to own a 
car which they cannot drive or do not 
understand. Wre have heard a great 
deal recently about keeping the heart 
right; it is fully as important that the 
head and hand should be right as well.
Perhaps the most frequently used 
word in the business vocabulary recently 
has been the word efficiency. I wish 
to discuss for a few moments your re
lation to efficiency and to education as 
a whole. The industrial teacher and 
the industrial worker should be a con
stant model of the best methods, a liv
ing personification of the best shop prac
tice. He owes it to himself to investi
gate scrupulously all his methods of 
mind and of hand. The great gain made 
by scientific management comes in two 
ways: (1) By eliminating all unneces
sary movements. (2.) By using proper 
relaxation of recreating periods.
In Germany, the school master revolu
tionized the business and the industrial 
life of the entire nation.
Every industrial teacher and every 
industrial worker should be a veritable 
dynamo generating and distributing this 
new current of light and powerthe 
best in scientific management.
One thing more is vitally necessary, 
neither the industrial teacher nor the 
industrial worker should mistake his par
ticular segment of the educational cir
cle for the entire circle. He should have 
the true conception of education as a 
whole in his mind with absolute clear
ness, and in all his work with absolute 
sureness.
Continued on Page 4

---------------------------------------------------

2lariatt
Stye (Hartan
Published weekly by Undergradu
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
-.he EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
Chas. E. Gilson, 14.. Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, 14-----Business Mgr.
W. H. Searight, 16............News Editor
C. B. Kline.....................Athletic Editor
Ruth Gubtil, 14...M. M. C. S. Editor
A. H. McGill, 14...........Science Editor
Carl C. Manchester, '16.Design Editor 
J. M. Parke, 14. ... Industries Editor 
Wm. M. Sheldon, 15.Exchange Editor
D. L. Mathias, 14.Staff Photographer 
A. Cowan, 15...Asst. Business Mgr.
E. S. Rauh, 15..Asst. Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, 16.....................Reporter
P. N. Bossart, 16.......................Reporter
PITTSBURGH, PA., MAR. 12, 1914 
THE STAG DANCE.
As was to be expected, the first stag 
dance held at our institution was an un
qualified success. There was quite a 
large proportion of students and faculty 
present from the Science School as well 
as Director and Mrs. Hamerschlag, and 
all enjoyed themselves. The only re
grets that we have heard were from 
those students who were prevented by 
unavoidable reasons from being pres
ent.
For the first time perhaps, many of 
the students had the pleasure of meet
ing the members of the faculty in a so
cial way, and from the comments we 
have heard we know that this oppor
tunity was most agreeable on both sides.
We have been asked by the students 
to express their full appreciation to. the 
ladies of the faculty for the excellent 
manner in which they planned the affair, 
and carried it out; and this we are cer
tainly most glad to do.
It seems to be the wish of every stu
dent in the Science School that these af
fairs should be continued, some even 
going so far as to desire one every 
week. However, it is quite possible 
that an affair every two weeks would 
be more successful, or perhaps they 
should be held only once a month. That 
is a question to be settled by experi
ence. At any rate, we hope that the new 
committee of students will plan for an 
interesting evening shortly.
It is desired that the men present last 
Saturday evening or to be present at 
future affairs, retain the tags on which 
are their names, so that they may use 
these again.
RE-ADJUSTMENT IN 
EDUCATION.
An interesting address was recently 
delivered by Professor Owen of Lafay
ette at a banquet of the New York Al
umni Association. Certain parts of this 
address we believe to be deserving of 
considerable thought on the part of men 
in college or technical school.
Professor Owen says that there has 
been a great change in college spirit dur
ing the last forty-five years, due, as he 
believes, largely to the great change that 
has come in the entire world during the 
same period. He says we are doing big 
things these days, we have become a 
world power, with the consequent new 
atmosphere of diplomacy, and as a result 
politics and politicians have greatly 
changed. Business has grown enorm
ously, with its tremendous massing of 
capital and its enormous fortunes. 
Then he compares education with 
business, and shows that educa
tion has expanded in every phase, not 
merely in the size of the institutions, but 
in the breadth of education, its aims, the 
new demands made upon the schools, 
for example, on the vocational side, 
teaching students to do specific things, 
or training them to a special knowledge 
in a particular field of activity. Under 
these conditions, Professor Owen be
lieves we are confronted by the need of 
re-adjustment in education, such as is 
being taken up these days in politics, 
in business, in the church.
He considers it very important that 
our ideas on the value of culture should 
be re-adjusted. Culture might be de
fined as the effect produced upon intel
ligence and upon character by the pur
suit of elevating studies. The old idea 
that culture requires long study and thus 
becomes the possession of an exclusive 
leisure class, he disagrees with, and 
shows that there is a growing sentiment 
in our American life which will elimin
ate the leisure class and will level up 
all kinds of work by the recognition 
that every useful and honorable voca
tion is dignified by the idea of social 
service. Under this idea, no man can 
look down on another; the carpenter 
becomes as good as the lawyer, the for
ester as good as the statesman. This 
is a great gain, if we can put the scale 
of social service upon our labors. But, 
according to Professor Owen, there is 
a danger of loss in the threatened sac
rifice of culture to gross ideas of the 
practical. Man shall not live by bread 
alone. Education must recognize that 
great truth. In general education the 
finest flowers bloom and the begt fruit 
ripens above the level of the strictly 
practical.
"That deep tone, whether of feeling 
or of knowing, which rises within us, 
and thrills the soul of us; that which 
responds to beauty, or to art in any 
form; that which responds to thought; 
that which responds to truth, whether 
the response come in the form of aspira
tion or of inspiration, it is this within 
us that calls for outlet and for larger 
exercise.
The aim of education, he says, 
should be to put the students in the way 
of approach to the best achievements of
the human spiritto give them some 
ability to appreciate the best things in 
music, literature, art, architecture.
A student fitting himself for a voca
tion spending his hours and weeks at 
desk and in laboratory, over text-books 
and in practice, may become very skilful 
in the specific work he intends to do, 
and may make a name and fortune; but 
he has not learned to appreciate the 
charms of nature, or the splendid 
achievements of man, which are so plen
tiful in history and in the world. He 
has perhaps never heard the names of 
Bach, Liszt, Schubert, Mozart, if he 
has heard their music, he never wants 
to again. In the gallery he passes can
vasses that are the treasures of the 
world with scarcely more than a glance, 
canvasses that are the best man has 
ever done in that line. It is the same 
in literature. Although he may have 
a sprinkling of the best books upon his 
shelves, he never is able to appreciate 
the wonderful value of their contents.
In concluding, Professor Owens asks 
for a larger view of education. He ad
mits the need for efficiency in vocation 
and its value, but he pleads for the life, 
the spirit within, and its deep satisfac
tions in contact with the best things. 
This, he claims, is the supreme need of 
the common man and should not be 
overlooked in education.
A LETTER FROM OUR FIRST 
EDITOR.
we have recently received an interest
ing letter from F. E. Foster, who is now 
located in Mexico. Those who know 
the early history of our institution will 
remember that Foster was very promi
nent as an organizer. He started the 
Football Team, founded The Thistle, 
and was interested in practically all the 
school activities then existent. He also 
founded The Tartan, and was its first 
Editor. For this reason we are especi
ally glad to publish his letter.
San Bias Suialva, Mexico.
Feb. 18, 1914. 
To the Editor-in-Chief of the Tartan, 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Penna., U. S. A.
Dear Sir:
It has been my intention for some 
time past, to say a hasty few words to 
the student body of my old Alma Mater, 
through the pages of the Tartan, a sheet 
that I, with the able assistance of my 
associate, James M. Sampson, brought 
into being in the fall of 1906. It is not 
that I have any message to send to the 
boys of the schools, that has bred 'this 
wish, rather it is to satisfy an old de
sire to bask in the light of something 
accomplished, and being carried for
ward so well, that stirs me to action 
and guides my pen today.
I have lately been sent to this place 
as Assistant Superintendent, to take 
charge of the operation of a portion of 
the line of the Southerin Pacific rail
road company of Mexico, and owing to 
the emergencies of war-time railroad
ing, have here set up a temporary divi
sion headquarters. It has so happened 
that I return to the town, that formerly 
served for my headquarters as roadmasContinued on Page 3
DIRECTORY
ATHLETTCS.
FootballF. C. McCaughey, Capt.
F. L. Rownd,
5141 Woodland Ave. 
BaseballW. K. Hall, Capt.,
W. F. Routh, Mgr.
5437 Aylesboro St.
Basketball
W. T. Criswell, Capt.
W. F. Wright, Mgr.,
311 McKee Place.
TrackE. L. Clair, Capt.
Wm. Miller, Mgr.
Tennis
G. Douthett, Capt.
R. S. Wilson, Mgr.
Students Advertising Bureau
G. G. Kelcey, Mgr.
Room 1, Industries Bldg.,
9167-J Schenley.
Student Activities Committee
N. A. Hollister, President.
W. M. Sheldon, Secy & Treas. 
5137 Woodlawn Ave. 
SOCIETIES 
Musical Clubs
L. R. Madison, Pres.
N. A. Hollister, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave. 
SeannachieE. L. Clair, Pres 
Carnegie BandH. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.
Mho ClubW. C. Sontum, Pres. 
Mechanical Club
J. B. Patterson, PresidentWhite Friars
J. A. Cameron, Pres.
G. W. Gilpin,
5557 Beeler St.
Tech Studio Club
H. B. Pearce, Pres.
T. A. C.J. B. Hayes, Pres.
C. E. Society
Al. H. Woods, Pres.
Fulcrum Club
H. R. Auerswald, Pres. 
Crucible ClubW. J. Corbett, Pres.
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES. 
Sigma Tau5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9167-J.
Sigma Rho3400 Iowa St.
Schenley 9022-J.
Beta Theta Epsilon
5437 Aylesboro Ave. 
Schenley 2508 
Xi Sigma Upsilon
311 McKee Place.
Schenley 9253.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon
237 N. Dithridge St.,
9053 Schenley.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi
3890 Grant Blvd.
Schenle3r, 9143.
Woodlawn Club
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9020.
Alumni Assn of Applied Science 
and Design
W. H. Rieger, Sec. & Treas., 
Room1 204 Applied Industries Bldg. 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Student Senates
DesignA. H. Neal, Pres.
IndustriesThomas Fish, Pres. 
Athletic Board of Control
J. J. Doherty, Pres.
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Secy.
C. I. T. Orchestra
G. C. Smith, Pres.
H. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

Ue arta
Editorials
Continued from Page 2
ter, and knowing as I do, the methods 
of the Mexican Postal authorities, I was 
not at all surprised to find a bulk of old 
mail awaiting me, among which were 
several copies of the Tartan. Since 
reading them I have lived the years from 
1905 to 1908 over again and am even 
now pondering some way to consistently 
return to Tech and again have the priv
ileges of a student there. Unhappily, I 
fear this problem can not be solved and
I shall there face compromise and prom
ise myself a visit to the institution some 
time during the present year,
My experience for the past year, has 
been that of all railroad men who have 
been employed in the troubled districts 
of Mexico: operating or helping to oper
ate a railroad under the most discourag
ing conditions. The abnormal has al
ready become the normal and burned 
bridges, interrupted telegraph and tele
phone communication and destroyed 
locomotives and equipment scarcely war
rant comment. I do not exaggerate 
when I say that it is the very few among 
us, who are not bullet-broke and a 
steadily increasing large number of us 
are cannon broke. The operating dis
trictto which I have previously re
ferred as being under my jurisdiction, 
is rather interestingly located, running 
as it does through the Constitutionalist 
territory, from the Federal outposts on 
the north to the Federal outposts on 
the south. Perhaps this is not suffi
ciently explicit, so I shall add that we 
operate up to a point within sight of the 
Federal outposts, but dare go no fur
ther. Another portion of our organiza
tion operates in the Federal territory 
and within the sight of the Constitution
alist outpost.
It has been my privilege, I shall call 
it that, to work in the organizations, 
handling the military movements of both 
Federal and Rebels and this has been 
done without being partisan of either 
party. In fact, at one period of this 
revolution the home in which I resided, 
became a veritable shuttlelock; one 
would go to sleep under the Federal 
flag and awaken under the Rebel and 
visa versa. You will therefore see, that 
it was experience that taught me to play 
no fanatics, for under the circumstances 
it might become an unhealthy recrea
tion.
I should like to discuss the Mexican 
situation, with all the enthusiasm, that 
the experience of living through three 
years of revolution in the country, has 
welled up in me, but it is inexpedient 
that I do so. I may say however, that
I can see no early solution for unhappy 
Mexicos troubles, and I am firm in the 
belief that victory coming to the arms 
of either party will merely change names, 
and not conditions.
To the old boys who were at Tech 
during the years 1905 to 1908, and to all 
others of the Tech fraternity, my best 
wishes go forth. To you, Mr. Editor, 
and to your staff, I send my congratula
tions.
Hastily yours,
F. E. FOSTER.
Stag Dance
Continued from Page 1 
A pilgrimage to Jerusalem was ex
plained by Dean Leete, and then under
taken by the students; but at each stop 
in the music which timed the march 
around the too few chairs, several pil
grims found themselves chairless, and 
fell by the wayside, until at the city 
walls only A. A. Schnieder, on the sole 
remaining chair, entered the holy city.
Another treat was the society dancing 
of several couples, especially Sowders 
and Tilly, who gave an excellent re
production of Gaby Deslys and Harry 
Pilcer.
The Glee Club, which had arrived 
from their Hotel Schenley concert, a 
little after nine, now got together; and 
the thirteen members present joined 
voices in Swing Along, until the walls 
re-echoed. The encore was accompanied 
by a decided swing with the words; and 
then led by the Glee Club, everybody 
sang America.
During some more dancing, the stu
dents were served to refreshments 
At the table, decorated with red candles 
and flowers, Mrs. W. E. Mott presided 
over the coffee urn, while Mrs. Crab
tree and Mrs. McCulloug,h assisted by 
Claude Ettele, helped to serve the stu
dents.
After lunch a big cakewalk was called, 
in which eight couples competed; among 
them Gaylord and Poyntz, Vierheller 
and Schumacher, Sawders and Fulton, 
the Einstein brothers, Schneider and 
J. B. Patterson, Guter and Headings, 
Miller and Corbett, and last but not 
least, Professor Stanton and Mr. Lose, 
by special request of the Dean. Some 
really good steps were given, but the 
polish, ease and perfect unison of Gay
lord and Poyntz took the cake, which 
was presented by Miss Lose and ack
nowledged by a speech from Gaylord. 
Schneider and Patterson gave the regu
lation cakewalk well, and the Einstein 
brothers did a good stunt; but the danc
ing of Professor Stanton and Mr. Lose 
was such that they were borne on the 
shoulders of the spectators in triumphal 
progress about the room.
A committee of Fulmer, Senior; Zeisenheim, Junior; G. B. Baker, Sopho
more, and Red Merrill, Plebe, was
appointed to arrange for the next af
fair, and these met the Ways and 
Means Committee after the dance.
Some doings in two weeks was planned, 
and it will probably be somewhat sim
ilar to the Stag Dance, with fellows 
alone present.
The receipts and expenditures of the 
evening follow:
Receipts ....................................*..........$12.10
Expenses:
Music ...................................$ 7.00
Tags ...............................................50
Wax ........................................ 1.00
---------$ 8.50
Balance (Turned over to new com
mittee ...........................................$ 3.60
Westioghouse Track Meet
Continued from Page 1 
er, Campbell, Moore.
Pole VaultKirk, Wright, Vierheller. 
1-2-mile RelayKirk, Hemmann, Rauh, 
Dunseith, Patterson, Langfelder.
Many Late-in-the Season Opportunities 
are here now for the purchase of
SUITS 
HEAVY OVERCOATS 
TOP COATS
at prices that make good-looking clothes the 
easiest thing in the world to own.
For instance:- 
Hcavy Overcoats - $ 9.65
Rain Coats - - 12.65
Suits - 14.65
Joseph Home Co.
The Modern Store
PITTSBURGH
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

4Qtye larian
WE HAVE THE NEW ONES IN SHOES
STOEBENER
Man with the Shoes
6227 Penn Ave. East End. 6222 Frankstown Avc.
City Office East End Office
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum StreetOswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh's Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Sts.
"A NATIONAL INSTITUTIONBrowning, King & Co*
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN BOYS AND CHILDREN
439-441 WOOD STREET
HOTEL SCHENLEY
ROMAN H. HEYN, President THOMAS J. KARAS, Manager
T I ''HE place where all Entertainments, Banquets and 
^ Social Functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology and its Fraternities are being given.
Try our 50c Luncheonthe finest obtainable in 
the City of Pittsburgh, served daily in our Rathskeller.
| M. M. C. S. NEWS |
I i
ART PRINCIPLES APPLIED TO 
DRESS.
Mrs. Ruth Butts Carson, of Florence, 
Italy, spoke to the faculty and part of 
the M. M. C. S. students Wednesday 
afternoon, March 3, at 2:30 on Art 
Principles Applied to Dress. The aim 
to aid women in selecting their clothes 
so as to combine utility and beauty. 
First, the personality has to be studied, 
and the color of the persons hair, com
plexion and eyes. Then having found 
the color that is best suited to that per
son, they should never wear any other 
color. If it is necessary, consult a dress 
maker to help one to find the color best 
suited to oneself.
Every color is better and more beauti
ful alone instead of a mixture. The 
best principle is to keep one color sepa
rate from another or to have one color 
predominate with a little touch of an
other color. In nature there are no half 
combinations in color; there is always 
one color predominant.
In Italy the ladies wear black a great 
deal, but the few peasants seen on the 
streets wear bright colors that brighten 
up the more somberness of the street 
life. German students wear red coats 
which are very pleasing to the eye.
Black, which is worn a great deal to
day, is not a color and is not attractive. 
It subdues the brilliant colors and for 
that reason should be worn only by 
young people who have a great deal of 
color.
Black and white are the foundations 
of all dresses but they are just the re
verse of each other, the white being very 
cheerful and gives, instead of takes color 
from the complexion.
The color scheme for the street and 
for home wear should be different be
cause the environment is different. One 
color should be used in the street cos
tume as it makes a person look small, 
and woman is small in comparison with 
the out-door scene. In-door women be
come larger in proportion to the environ
ment, so can wear two colors.
In studying the harmony of colors, 
which has to be studied to combine dress 
materials attractively, there are three 
divisions: (1) The harmony of analogy; 
(2) The harmony of contrast, and (3) 
The harmony of many colors.
It is the duty of every woman to 
please the people who are interested in 
them by dressing attractively.
There are three essentials of every 
beautiful dress that should be consid
ered: (1) Beauty of color; (2) sim
plicity of line, and (3) The fineness of 
a beautiful fabric.
Mrs. Carson thinks that the men 
should wear brighter colors, because 
they do not look interesting upon the 
street.
The lecture came to a close after the 
discussion upon clothes for the rainy 
day costume. In selecting them, Mrs. 
Carson thinks the color should be bright 
and cheerful and should match the other 
things in the wardrobe.
Mrs. Carson demonstrated her lecture
by having dolls dressed to represent the 
various types and the colors required 
by them, and was assisted in this work 
by two of the M. M. C. S. girls.
NOTICE TO HOME CONCERT 
DANCERS.
Please do not forget that the dance 
at the Hotel Schenley after the home 
concert Friday night is to be strictly 
formal, and no one, outside of the Musi
cal Club men, will be admitted without 
a dance ticket. Please do not expect 
the man at the door to recognize you 
Have that ticket handy. If you will do 
your share, there will be no confusion.
Dr. Gerwigs Lecture
Continued from Page 1.
The distinctive American ideals may 
be summarized in eight wordsEduca
tion is training for service, and in serv
ice. The older education had some de
fects, but it had always some character
istics which are eternally right. Plato, 
Socrates and Euclid advanced certain 
ideas in their day, which no man, who 
has lived since, has been able to im
prove upon. But the old education in 
one form or another was an education 
of privilege and of a limited culture 
rather than of service and efficiency. 
The American ideal of an education de
mands, firstthat every pupil should be 
given the opportunity to develop all his 
powersSecond, that this training be 
dedicated to some superb service for his 
fellows.
This fundamental change in the con
ception of what constituted an educa
tion involved a corresponding change 
in the method of acquiring it. We are 
coming to see more clearly every day, 
that there can be no educational trust 
and no copyright upon an exclusive 
method. Training for service may come 
to body, mind or soul by many routes. 
Every experience or activity in life is 
educating. William Pitt stipulated in 
his great law in 1683 that every child 
should be brought up to some useful 
trade or occupation. The ideal educa
tional institution will develop the finest 
bodies and minds for the highest serv
ice and will become the expert advisor 
of all the people upon all subjects.
The industrial teacher or worker will 
preach and practice the right of a pupil 
to serve the state with trained hand as 
well as with trained head.
Man is not educated by books alone. 
Neither is he most effectively educated 
by things and events without books.
The ability to read a drawing or to 
make one is as truly the foundation of 
all industrial education as the ability 
to read a word or to write one, is of 
book learning. The interpreting or mak
ing of a drawing is properly therefore 
always an early step in any industrial 
training, being of value alike to work
ers of every craft, just as the ability to 
read or write a page is of value in life 
to students of every subject.
The ability to work out in SOME ma
terial the idea expressed in the drawing 
is the second step. Educationally the 
special material selected is of little con
sequence. It may be modified to suit 
various conditions. Industrial training 
has been the proper reaction against the 
limited view of education and culture 
a magnificent, significant recall to 
sound commonsense.
The greatest thing an industrial work
er can do for a pupil is to give that pupil 
the right mental attitude toward his 
work. He should be guided to some 
little task or to some life task which 
seems to him well worth doing. Then 
he should be inspired with a desire to 
do this particular piece of work as well 
as he can do it, and as well as anyone in 
the world can do it.
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth presses the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, per
spiration, "odor and grime. See Shu
man, the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.Adv.
Active measures are being taken at 
Pennsylvania to erect a monument to 
Mike Murphy, the famous track coach 
and trainer. Much interest is being 
taken in the memorial, not only by 
students and alumni of the university 
but by graduates of Yale and other 
schools that knew the great trainer.
HOME CONCERT 
Starts 8:14 Sharp B There
BRACE BROS. 
LAUNDRY
BENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG 
Bell Phone, Wilkins 23
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies, Children* and 
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
R. E. JACQUES, Teacher
of Dancing and Deportment 
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Bell Phone 9124-R Schenley 
Vice President of the International Association 
Masters of Dancing
The upper classmen all patronize us 
Plebes, Come over and get acquainted 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
Harry F. Van Carens 
TECH BARBER SHOP
Craig and Forbe* Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

ariatt5
INDUSTRIES SCHOOL HOLD 
MONTHLY SPLASH.
The Industries School held their 
monthly dip at the Oakland Natatorium 
last Thursday evening and a good time 
was reported. Beside the great time 
each one had, there were a few other 
features, such as a relay race, fancy div
ing and an exhibition of the various 
strokes used in swimming. Last but not 
least Steam Boat Carey was dropped 
in the drink. This event ended in a 
free for all water fight which everyone 
will admit was a bunch of fun.
The idea of the relay race was to dis
cover any material that would be of use 
in the organizing of an Aquatic Team 
which Parker is trying to get together. 
The interest shown in swimming and 
Aquatic sports in general is a big step 
towards developing athletics in this 
school.
CHOCOLATES
OUR MESSENGER
GOOD
CLOTHESCHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal Street,N. S.
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
MacDONALDS
Candies and Ice Cream Sedas, 
Dainty Lunch.
Tables for Ice Cream.
Fancy Boxes, Baskets, Flavo r?, etc 
208 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
rTue Values B. 8c B. rTue Values
for caps at lowest prices
For style, quality and durability you can depend on any cap 
purchased here.
We carry only reliable goods and the prices are the lowest quoted 
anywhere.Boggs ST Buhl,Pittsbargh, Penna.
Forbes Quality Shop
Corner Forbes and Boaqaet StreetLUNCHES
CANDY, SODA, CIGARS, MAGAZINES
MUSICAL CLUBS GET FINISH
ING TOUCHES.
The last two concerts given by the 
Glee and Mandolin Clubs before the 
home concert, were given at Edgewood 
Club on last Friday night, and at the 
Hotel Schenley on Saturday evening at
6 oclock; after the Edgewood concert 
a very delightful dance was given; like
wise after the concert the Glee men 
sang a few pieces for the entertainment 
of those at the Stag Dance at Machin
ery Hall.
The concert at the Edgewood Club 
was given before a small, but appreci
ative audience. The program towards 
the last, was purposely shortened, so 
that the men who wanted to dance could 
have an opportunity before it got too 
late. Compliments were in the air for 
the Club that night, as their work was 
of such character as to merit applause.
The Schenley concert was given in 
the main dining hall at 6 oclock and 
was given to entertain the guests of the 
Hotel. Every man was present and the 
boys were brought back time and again 
to answer the hearty applause of the 
diners.
These are the last concerts before 
the home concert, and they have been 
given before audiences both of which 
contained some of the best musical crit
ics in the city. It is gratifying to see 
the Musical Club in such excellent con
dition, for the most severe test of the 
yearthe home concert.
Come to the home concert and meet 
some of your old time graduate friends.
The office of the Secretary has a num
ber of dress suits which it will be glad 
to loan to students from time to time. 
Application should be made to Mr. G. H. 
Redding.
Say? If your smile is becoming to 
you, youd better be-coming to the home 
concert Friday night and let your face 
enjoy the novelty.
Fire of unknown origin destroyed 
the Chapter House of Delta Phi Fra
ternity at Lehigh University. Much 
of the furniture and personal 
valuables of the students were saved, 
but the loss will amount to between 
$15,000 and $20,000, partly insured.
ARE YOU INTERESTED?
In a clear enunciation and correct 
pronounciation of English? It is of 
paramount importance in every career 
and contributes to success.
Having had a large experience in 
teaching along this line, and with grat
ifying results, particularly among for
eign college men I confidently offer 
my services to any who may require 
such instruction.
SARA E. SIMPSON,
312 Biddle Ave., 
Wilkinsburg, Pa. 
Bell Tel. 726-L Wilkins.
INDUSTRIES SENIORS ELECT 
HISTORIAN. 
Wm. Randal is Chosen.
At a weekly meeting of the Seniors 
of the School of Applied Industries, 
Wrm. Randal was chosen as the His
torian of the class of 1914 with G. LLudubuhl and J. M. Parke as his as
sistants. The meeting was the best one 
of the year, due to the fact that the 
popular election of the faculty and stu
dents took place, an event any senior 
will tell you means a great deal of fun.
THE ALVIN.
When Dreams Come True, Philip 
Bartholomaes musical comedy of youth, 
with a company of seventy players and 
dancers, will be the attraction at the 
Alvin Theater next week.
When Dreams Come True, is a 
combination of melodrama, farce, music 
and dancing.
There are three acts in When 
Dreams Come True, and in these five 
complete sets of scenery are employed 
two of them in the first act. The ball
room scene of the final act is painted 
on silk instead of canvas, this original 
and expensive plan having been adopted 
to secure a certain lighting effect said 
to be of great beauty.
Any Tech man who doesnt hear the 
home concert better go to the dentist 
where he can still look down-in-themouth.
Cornell objects to meeting Oxford 
in a four mile race at the international 
relays to be held this spring on ac
count of the fact that Oxford has no 
one-year eligibility rule. This would 
allow Tabor, a former Brown star, 
who has just entered Oxford, to com
pete. Other American Universities 
expressed their view on the question 
as that the spirit of the one-year rule 
is not violated and that it is simply a 
case of Oxford being lucky enough to 
secure an unusually fast miler.
The Genuine Step of
Tango, One Step, Maxixe 
and Hesitations 
McDOUGALL DANCING ACADEMIES
4616 Forbes St., and Shady and Penn Aves. 
SPECIAL TANGO CLASS MONDAY EVENINGS
THE D. L. AULD CO.
MANUFACTURING JEWELERS 
AND STATIONERS 
Columbus, B)S*on, Philadelphia, Chicago, Pittsburgh 
FRATERNITY BADGES, CLASS PINS AND RINGS 
ENGRAVED INVITATIONS 
DANCE PROGRAMS
REGINALD TUTHILL
Representative for Penna. Bell, Hiland 1 121R 
P. O. Box 984 PITTSBURGH. PA.
STUDENTS
Try one of our SPECIAL Tailor 
made suits at $18.00. Young Mens New Style for Spring.
Quite Classy You, will feel Sassy in our Made to Measure Suits. 
From
C. A. HEIMERT 
Mens Outfitter
3614 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Block, Oakland 
Established in Pittsburgh in 1882
Present this AD and we will allow 
you one dollar on your Spring Tailor made Suit.
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
The Oakland Bank
VANADIUM BUILDING
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,700,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
The Hotel Schenley Barber Shop
solicits your patronage. Our service is 
second to none at the regular prices 
M. J. Chemoff, Proprietor.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

6tye (Tartan
POINTS OF INTEREST TO THE 
TECHNICAL STUDENT OF 
THE FURNITURE 
INDUSTRY.
The average technical man, when 
looking over the various possible fields 
in choosing a life work, is apt to pass 
by the woodworking industry as being 
one in which an engineering education 
is not one of the requirements for suc
cess. It is true that most of the men 
at the head of our great lumber manu
facturing industries today are practi
cal men who have grown up with the 
business; but the application of engin
eering principles is needed now more 
than ever to cut down the increasing 
costs due to both high material and 
high labor expenses.
At only one point in his course is 
the student able to get familiar with 
the handling of lumber and wood work
ing machinery, namely: in the pattern 
shop; yet lumber enters into our daily 
life in so many ways in spite of the 
fact that steel has supplanted it in so 
many places.
Consider how plain an appearance the 
interiors of our homes would present 
if we did not have wood for the trim
mings and furniture with its great vari
ety of finishes; and also what an en
ormous cost would result if the ideas 
of an artistic designer must be carried 
out in metal.
Standard designs are very easily 
worked out in metal where enough can 
be made to pay for the extra cost of 
forming tools, and in this class of work 
metal is fast displacing wood. For ex
ample, metal doors, windows and pan
eling is commonly used for the interior 
finish of large fireproof buildings, while 
metal office desks, chairs and filing cab
inets, household furniture, such at kit
chen cabinets and bath-room cabinets, 
school desks, factory equipment such as 
lockers, stools, etc., are manufactured 
in standard sizes and designs and in 
large enough quantities to pay for the 
cost of tools.
With a view to impressing on the stu
dent the demands for brains in the 
wood-working industry, this little ar
ticle has been prepared. Some of the 
points necessary to the manufacture of 
furniture from lumber are given in the 
rucceeding paragraphs.
After the lumber has been cut from 
the log it is generally allowed to stand 
on sticks as the saying goes, for up
wards from six months. The average 
furniture maker buys his lumber at this 
point and the first step in his process 
is drying to remove all but the required 
amount of moisture. This work is gen
erally done in a kiln which may be of 
either the box or the continuous type.
In the box type kiln the lumber is 
loaded on trucks with sticks between the 
boards to allow of the free circulation 
of air through the pile and the truck 
is then pushed into the box. When the 
box is filled, the doors are closed and 
the lumber is steamed to open the pores 
and give the drying heat a chance to dry 
from the inside out. This prevents 
shrinking, warping, checking and honey
combing.
After a certain period the steam is 
shut off and steam is admitted to the
heating coils. When the lumber is 
shown to be dry enough by the samples 
which are taken from each pile, the box 
is opened and the lumber is ready for 
pulling.
In the continuous type kiln the action 
in drying is the same except that load
ing is done at one end and pulling is 
done at the other end; and the loaded 
trucks pass down the inclined track as 
fast as they are taken from the pulling 
end of the kiln.
The lumber is then taken into a room 
maintained at the same conditions with 
regard to moisture and temperature as 
the factory departments where the ma
chine work is done.
Cutting and ripping are done from 
a bill of material giving the number of 
pieces together with the dimensions 
when finished and the cutter and rip
per generally know how much excess 
stock to leave for finishing to dimen
sion, just the same as a pattern maker 
knows how much to leave on a casting 
so that it will finish up smooth.
It is at this point in the process that 
the greatest waste may possibly occur. 
If a cutter is not careful to get all the 
possible value out of each board he 
handles, he may easily waste ten times 
his wages in lumber and will increase 
the" size of the wood pile. In a furni
ture factory wood means waste, lum
ber means rough stock and stock 
means the actual material in the finished 
article.
The material is then passed through 
the jointer, which surfaces one side per
fectly flat. This work used to be done 
on a hand-fed machine, but many good 
self-feeding attachments are on the mar
ket today.
The next operation consists of joint
ing and glueing the pieces together. This 
operation is a study in itself, involving 
all the different shapes of joint such as 
a tongue and groove, flat, taper wedge 
dovetail, etc., as well as different meth
ods of mixing, testing and applying the 
glue. If the work is properly done at 
this point, the machining and applying 
of the finish will be easy; but poor joint
ing and glueing are responsible for a 
large part of furniture factory losses. 
In the first place, it does not pay to use 
a cheap glue as aside from the fact that 
its tensile strength is less than that of 
good glue, the amount of water which 
can be added to a poor glue is not nearly 
so great as that which one can add to a 
good grade. Thus a mixture of water 
and poor glue might easily represent a 
more expensive mixture than one of 
good glue and two or three times the 
amount of water used in the first case. 
The writer has seen thousands of dollars 
wasted on account of this one fact.
After the glue has been allowed to 
set for a sufficient length of time the 
pieces are ready for the successive oper
ations of planing, boring, shaping, bandsawing, sanding, etc. In this respect, 
wood is much the same as metal except 
that the cutting is done at very high 
speeds and fast feeds. For a variety of 
work, standard machines such a planers, 
shapers, moulders, band-saws, boring 
machines, and sanding machines are 
used; but where the work is sufficiently 
standardized automatic machinery has
been successfully used.
It would be well at this point to speak 
of the process known as veneering, 
which is becoming more common every 
day. Veneers are made from logs in 
special veneering lathes and this branch 
of the business is generally done outside 
of the furniture factory by firms making 
nothing but veneers.
Core stock is made of the cheaper 
grades of lumbers and the face veneers 
are glued on under heavy hydraulic or 
screw presses. Veneers may be made 
over any shape either flat or curved so 
long as the surface to be covered is 
curved only one way. Practically all 
the plain opera chairs in use in cheap 
theatres are made of veneer pressed to 
shape in wooden forms in a manner de
scribed above. Veneered furniture is 
easily recognized as the thin sheets can 
be discerned through all but the dark 
finishes.
All of the Circassion Walnut furni
ture is veneered, as the genuine wood 
is too expensive to build up into solid 
pieces; and much of it is really figured 
gum veneer, which is a beautiful wood 
when properly matched and finished.
Gum is a native American wood found 
mostly in the Southern states.
After all the machining has been done 
the pieces are assembled and any neces
sary hand work is done by cabinet mak
ers. This hand work has been elimin
ated to a great extent in the large fac
tories just as the old-time machinist is 
being displaced by the bench hand or 
machine operator in all large machine 
shops.
Finishing is largely a hand process 
though the air brush is used for apply
ing varnish and shellac on furniture with 
great gains in time over the old brush 
method. Staining of small pieces is 
done by dipping in a tank containing 
the stain. For the purpose of drying 
varnish quickly, dry kilns are used, 
which carry off and condense the vapors 
of the container.
The final process is rubbing with pum
ice and oil or water. For this opera
tion small rubbing machines driven by 
compressed air or electricity have been 
introduced with success.
Most firms prefer to carry a stock of 
their line in the white, thus allowing 
them to fill orders for special finishes. 
When an order is received the stock is 
put through the finishing process using 
the color demanded by the customer.
In conclusion, I would say that the 
wood working industry presents the 
same conditions and problems in produc
tion as does the metal working industry, 
and that the introduction of technically 
trained men into the former will show 
the same benefits as has the latter.
R. K. Merrill, 1908, 
Mechanical Engineer.
Recent extension has been made to 
university telephone exchange at 
Penn. This work is part of the plan 
to install a general intercommeunicating phone system for the students 
convenience.
HOME CONCERT
HEAR THAT VARSITY QUARTETTE
ARROW
SCOLLARCluett, Peabody & Co., Inc. Makers
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, 
College Pennants, 
Banners and Pillow Tops.
HUKILL HUNTER (0.
AGA Wood Street.
BELL PHONE 239 SCHENLEYWeber Express & Storage Co.
Moving, Packing and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa
fLOWERS fOR ALL OCCASIONS
Randolph ST Me Clements
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Avenue Near Highland Ave.
s C. M. STAUFT 2o(5 Stationery, News, Etc. S
>> Gentlemans Watches ^
S and Repairing. 
^ 3702 Forbes St. Pittsburgh, Pa. S
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,200,000
Handsome homes, congenial 
surroundings, healthful location and 
convenience to all places, all com
bined in
SCHENLEY FARMS
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor., of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Good* called for and delivered.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUE, EAST END. 
We are now REBUILDING and when completed we 
will have one of the most complete and modem exclusive 
SHOE STORES in Greater Pittsburgh. 
Our business continued while rebuilding, NEW FALL 
BOOTS are arriving daily. 
WE'VE FITTED FEET OVER FORTY YEARS. 
THE UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER
Has No Rivals 
IN SPEED AND ACCURACY
IT HOLDS ALL WORLDS RECORDS 
IN OPEN COMPETITION
THE MACHINE YOU WILL EVENTUALLY BUY
UNDERWOOD TYPEWRITER COMPANY, INCORPORATED 
Underwood Building, New York
Branches in all Principal Cities
(Hlje QJartatt S
Carnegie Institute of 
Technology: Pittsburgh
The Carnegie Institute of Technology consists of four separate 
schools, each with its own faculty, buildings and student body.
School of Applied Science. Offers courses in chemical, civil, 
commercial, electrical, mechanical, metallurgical, mining and 
sanitary engineering, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Science.
School of Applied Design. Offers courses in architecture 
decoration, illustration, painting and music, open to both men 
and women, leading to the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie School. For women. Offers 
courses in household economies, secretarial work, costume 
economies, home arts and crafts and teachers courses, leading 
to the degree of Bachelor of Science.
School of Applied Industries. Offers industrial courses in 
machine construction, building construction, general equipment 
and installation. Short courses are offered in the various trades. 
Also a course for the training of industrial teachers, leading to 
the degree of Bachelor of Science in Vocational Education.
Night Courses. The four schools offer night courses in 
practically all of the above subjects to provide educational oppor
tunities for those who are at work during the day.
For Further Information Address 
Registrar, Carnegie Institute of Technology
SEAL HUNTING.
(Continued from last weeks issue.)
By John S. Taylor.
Deeds of daring and agility such as 
take place for instance, when flagging 
form the foundation of Sagas this is 
true especially of Maritime countries, 
and in the isolated towns and hamlets of 
Newfoundland, these songs (commonly 
known as come all yes) are rehearsed 
during the long winter months. Many 
have a hundred verses from four to 
eight lines each.
Now, the men are getting down to 
their gruesome task; the virgin surface 
is dyed a deep red, the red trails extend 
at least two miles from the ship in vari
ous directions, and here one sees the 
hunters in all attitudes; some knocking 
the seals unconscious, some removing 
pelts, dragging and piling them in coni
cal heaps, fat downward, to prevent the 
skins becoming burned.The record 
for removing a pelt is one minute, and 
has been performed by many, the aver
age time, however, being two and a half 
minutes. A remarkable feat, consider
ing that this continues many hours, and 
days until the requisite number is ob
tained. Twilight is fast approaching 
and there is no apparent let-up, save 
only when the men eat a little food, 
now, the torches are placed and the flick
ering lights extend away in the distance, 
this coupled with the bloody surface 
of the ice and moving forms of the 
men, gives the suggestion of a battle
field. The air is frosty and clear, the 
light from the ships can be distinctly 
seen, and the time struck on the ships 
bell can be heard distinctly, while above 
all, the Aurora Borealis or Northern 
Lights, the dancing and shooting across 
the sky, gorgeous in coloring. It is now 
eleven oclock and the siren has just 
sounded the recall. Perhaps the Glass 
is going, down as snow has been falling 
for an hour the captain no doubt, is 
anxious to get his men aboard, which 
surmise was correct, for it proved to 
be a very stormy night indeed. Fortu
nately, the high wind scattered the snow 
over the smooth surface; thus the day 
following, we were enabled to pick up 
all the seals that had been killed. (It is 
not unusual to lose an entire days kill, 
approximating 5,000 during a storm) 
Now we can hear the Master Watch 
calling the roll with the usual response, 
if well; if not well, inquiry is made, and 
a glass of hot Jamaica rum and sugar is 
prescribed, especially if a man has fallen 
into icy water. After mug up when 
hot coffee and tea comes steaming from 
the galley, the men take what rest 
they can previous to being called within 
four hours, during which time the ship 
is forcing her way through to obtain 
a central position among the flagged 
pelts. When the task of hoisting aboard 
goes on, now the winches are churning 
and the straps are squeezing, and over 
the bulwarks comes the first of the 
kill. A company of men are in the 
hold to stow the pelts as they come. 
The hold is divided into about twelve 
compartments for pelts are what is 
termed a live cargo, resembling jelly iti 
a dish. Were it not divided, the ship
butting ice, would cause the cargo tu 
shift forard and send everything to 
"Davy Joness locker. Other steamers 
are now on the scene and keen competion may now be looked for. A few 
days following, two polar bears were 
seen and later shot in the ear. The skins 
were large and in good condition, and 
were evidently in a hurry to get away 
when brought to, by a bullet from one 
of our best shots. Later on, while mak
ing repairs in the engine room, the crew 
being turned in, a large polar bear and 
two cubs walked aboard a gang plank. 
Attracted, no doubt, by the savory odor 
from the forard galley. The cook, be
ing alone at the time preparing food for 
the crew, suddenly heard a sniff and a 
low growl, and a white head was peer
ing over the half door of the galley, 
when, with a yell, the cook disappeared 
through the door opposite, and down 
the foscle (forecastle) where an alarm 
was made. Several gunners starting 
in pursuit, but missed them owing to 
the dim light. However, they shuffled 
off, perhaps dived underneath the ice. 
This was the last indication of Bar 
we had during the cruise. The cook was 
given some Jamaica which cured the 
ague for the time being.
A large walrus was also captured, 
resting quietly behind a hummock. He 
put up a fight trying to get to his blow 
hole. He had two splendid tusks about 
sixteen inches long, an'd the two steam 
winches were required to hoist him in 
on deck where it laid during the voy
age. Its back was about five feet broad. 
Some bristles from its snout, I have as 
souvenirs.
A few Arctic foxes were seen, or at 
least reported, but as they were of little 
value no effort was made to get them.
(To be continued.)
All rights reserved.
HOME CONCERT, Friday the 13
1 $ First and Second Tenors 
13    Basses
13    Mandolins
13 In all the other parts 
Present Clubs started 1913 and we hope to see you 
at Carnegie Music Hall at 8:15 P. M. March 13
EXCHANGES.
Up at Michigan a course of court
ship and love-making is to be offered 
open to all. Kiss me kid, I need the 
credit, suggests the university daily.
Students at Otterbein University are 
prohibited from entering the only pool 
room in Westerville, the town in which 
the university is located.
Boston Tech juniors in the industrial 
microbiology class were allowed to 
make gastronomical tests of the prod
uct of the Reuter Breweries after an 
inspection trip conducted by their in
structors.
The students of the University of 
Michigan have voted to remain inde
pendent of the Western Conference. 
The anti-conference vote was three 
times as great as the pro-conference 
vote.
Syracuse is to have a psychological 
laboratory for carrying on experiment
al work.
Statistics show that for the last hun
dred years at least fifty per cent of 
every English Cabinet has been com
posed of graduates of Oxford.
The Michigan Students Union has 
2800 voluntarily paid memberships, and 
is the largest union of any college in 
the United States. In twelve months 
it has entertained 60,000 persons and 
has staged 600 separate distinct so
cial events, dances, dinners, lectures, 
banquets and meetings.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

BQtye tariatt
CLASSIFIED LIST OF TARTAN ADVERTISERS
We have classified our advertisers so that our readers may use the list 
for reference before making purchases. The grouping furnishes an excellent 
variety of merchants for any article which a student, alumnus or faculty 
member would be likely to buy, and there is no valid reason of which we are 
aware that would justify anyone interested in the welfare of The Tartan in 
making purchases from any but merchants who so kindly make such a publi
cation possible. Be sure, also, to give one of the purchase stubs, which you 
will find enclosed in your Tartan every other week, to the clerk from whom 
jou make the purchase. The stubs, we have found, make pleased advertisers 
and help to get new ones. May we depend upon YOU to take this as a re
sponsibility to your Institution and to The Tartan.
Florists
Randolph & McClements, Penn, 
near Highland, E. E. Tel., Hiland 25.
BENNETTS
To the Dressy Fellows of Tech.
It's as natural for you to want to get into new Sprins duds as it is for Nature to 
doll up in her variegated Spring attire.
Obviously you prefer the best your money will buy. As Bennelt Means 
Best, we ask you to see our
New Spring Sait, New Spring Hats 
New Spring Neckwear New Spring Shirts New Spring Gloves
and other dress accessories incident to Spring.
And dont forget our special offer to Tech Students.
J. G. BENNETT^& CO. W^,T'
The Musical Clubs
HOME (0N(ERT AND DM
Friday, March 13. Carnegie Music Hall
The Rittenhoase Ball Room
Affords The Best Ventilation. The Best Floor,
Most Privacy for
THE JUNIOR PROM, THE SENIOR BALL
or any similar functions given by Carnegie Tech Students
W. R. KUHN CO.
Ball and Party Accommodations
Hotel Schenley, Oakland.
The Rittenhouse, Highland Ave., 
E. E.
Banks
The Mellon National Bank, Smithfield and Fifth.
The Oakland Savings & Trust Co., 
Vanadium Bldg., Oakland.
Banquets and Dining Services
Rittenhouse, Highland Ave., E. E.
Schenley Hotel, Oakland.
Barbers
The Schenley Hotel Barber Shop.
The Tech Barber Shop, Craig and 
Forbes Sts.
Cleaning and Pressing (Delivery 
Service)
Enterprise Pressing Co., Highland 
Bldg., E. E. Phone 449 Hiland.
Liberty Cleaning and Pressing Co., 
Craig, near Forbes St. Tel. 
Schenley 309.
Oswald Werner and Sons, Bryant 
and St. Clair Sts., E. E. Tel., Hiland 1138.
J. E. T. Shuman, Forbes, near Boquet St., Oakland. Tel., Schen
ley 874.
Clothing
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Browning, King Co., 441 Wood St
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
McCreery Co., Sixth and Wood Sts
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St 
near Ohio, N. S.
Confectioners
Forbes Quality Shop, Forbes anG 
Boquet Sts., Oakland.
McDonalds, 208 Sixth St.
Reymers, Fifth Ave., downtown, 
Penn Ave., E. E.
The Rittenhouse. Highland Ave., 
E. E.
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
Dancing Academies
Jacques, Craig and Forbes.
Department Stores
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Jos. Horne Co., Penn Ave.
McCreery Co., Sixth and Wood.
Draughtsmans and Artists Supplies
Geo. L. Kopp, Smithfield and Sev
enth, upstairs one flight.
Kurtz, Langbein & Schwartz, oppo
site McCreerys.
Furniture
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
J. G. Marshall, 959 Liberty.
McCreery & Co., Sixth and Wood 
Sts.
Haberdashery
Aufhammer & E\ans, 6100 Penn 
Ave.
J. G. Bennett Co., Wood and Fifth.
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Browning, King & Co., 441 Wood 
St.
Cluett - Peabody Cos, shirts and collars.
Heimerts, Oakland.
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
McCreery Co., Wood and Sixth Sts.
Strassburger & Joseph, Federal St., 
N. S.
Hardware
Hukill-Hunter Co., 414 Wood St.
Laundries (Delivery Service)
Brace Bros., Wilkinsburg. Tel.
Moving Picture Theatres
The Cameraphone, Penn Ave., E. E.
Real Estate
The Schenley Farms Co., Farmers 
Bank Bldg.
Shoes
Boggs & Buhl, Federal St., N. S.
Joseph Horne Co., Penn Ave.
P. Ludebuehl & Son, Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Geo. H. Stoebener & Son, Penn and 
Frankstown Aves., E. E.
Sporting Goods
Hukill-Hunter & Co., 414 Wood St. 
See Mr. Lockhart.
A. G. Spalding & Bros., Wood and 
Sixth Sts.
Tobacconists
Schenley Hotel.
C. M. Stauft, Forbes and Atwood 
Sts., Oakland.
Transfer and Storage
Webber Express and Storage Co., 
4616-20 Henry St. Tel., Schen
ley 239.
Typewriters
The Underwood Typewriter Co., 
Liberty Ave.
Dont Forget The
Home Concert
To Morrow Night
TECH LUNCH
4527 Forbes Street REGULAR DINNER 25 CENTS
(4:00 to 8:00 P. M.)
SOUP.
MEATS.
(Choice of one)
VEGETABLES
(Three)
Bread, Butter, Coffee, Tea7or Milk. Dessert
Tickets $5.50 for $5.00
the best prices and quality.We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you
