The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 37 No. 24___________ CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1943
Gala Plans Under Way pr0gram For Carnegie Dayr or Christmas Dance ~ n j
Features Big Assembly
Press Views Tech 
AST Unit In Action
By Ruth Tisherman
Various methods of totin a 
shcotin arn may have been the 
chief training offered soldiers back 
in the days when pappy was in 
khaki, but with current warfare de
manding high grade technicians and 
specialists, supplemental military 
instruction in such vital fields as 
optics, surveying, and engineering is 
now being given to high ranking 
men under the Army Specialized 
Training Program.
In order to give the general public 
some insight into the purpose and 
activities of this program which is 
now operating in 222 colleges and 
universities throughout the nation, 
the Bureau of Public Relations of 
the War Department opened Car
negie Institute of Technologys AST 
unit last Wednesday, November 17, 
for a visit by members of the press 
and radio.
With the primary aim of giving 
the visitors an over-all picture of
* .
the Armys use of American educa
tional institutions, the tour carried 
them through a complete day with 
the soldier stationed on the Tech 
campus. From physics and electric
al measurements laboratories where 
various experiments were being car
ried on, to a Language and Area 
Conversation class where motion 
pictures were the object of a heated 
discussion in French, members of the 
press viewed AST men in action. In 
addition to sitting-in on classes, they 
also reviewed the physical training 
program through an exhibition of 
wrestling and boxing which was in 
Continued on page 3.
Freshman CWCA Girls 
To Hold Dinner Meeting
On Wednesday, the first of De
cember, the Freshmen in the C. W. 
C. A. will get together for their first 
big function when they hold a din
ner meeting at Carnegie Union. The 
gathering will be strictly managed 
by the Freshmen, for the Freshmen. 
Before dinner the girls will meet 
at 5:15 to meet their officers and or
ganize a project for Christmas. 
i Tickets are on sale now and will 
>e sold until the Monday before the 
dinner.
Reaching into their bag of tricks 
and pulling out a really clever idea 
for celebrating the holiday season, 
Cwens and Mortar Board announce 
that they are planning a Christmas 
Carnival to be held December 4 
in the Gymnasium. Helen Jaffurs 
and Judy Skeehan, co-chairmen for 
the affair, have rumored that Santa 
Claus will make an appearance at 
the dance to crown the Senior 
Queen. Although the  plans for 
choosing the candidates for Senior 
Queen are not definite, it is known 
that eleven senior girls will com
pete for the honor.
Santa will be wearing the proverbial whiskers and red suit down to 
the last moth; but if you look close 
enough, you will recognize one of 
the dramats. Gay decorations plus 
the melodious strains of Brad 
Hunts orchestra will add to the fes
tive spirit. The price is only $1.65 
per couple.
The Christmas Carnival has the 
distinction of being the last all
school dance this semester and for 
graduating seniors, it will be their 
last dance as student? at Tech.
Afo^d O^Uatedl
Sorority Installed As 
AEPhi Baby Chapter
On Sunday, November 21, the for
mer Mu Aloha Gamma Sorority of
C. I. T. was formally installed as the 
Alpha Nu Chapter of Aloha Epsilon 
Phi at a banquet held in Schenley 
Hotel. Among those present were 
Mrs. Yon, Dean of Women at Car
negie. Miss Rush, Dean of Women at 
the University of Pittsburgh, Mrs. 
Florence Orringer, National Dean of 
Alpha Epsilon Phi, Mrs. William 
Skirble, Province Director, and 
members of the University of Pitts
burgh Nu Chapter.
The ceremony, at which nineteen 
girls were initiated as members of 
a national sorority, was the first one 
to be held by any of our local soror
ities. Henceforth, they will be en
titled to wear their new pinsAl
pha Epsilon Phi in pearls on a gold 
bar with an Alpha Nu Chapter 
guard.
We offer our heartiest best wishes 
for continued success to the group 
as a whole, and especially to those 
seniors through whose conscientious 
efforts the sorority has grown in 
the short span of three years from 
an insignificant club into an influ
ential campus organization. Sunday 
was the fitting climax to what once 
was a far-fetched dream in the 
minds of fifteen freshmen who met 
in Rec Hall way back in October, 
1940 and founded Mu Alpha Gam
ma.
Unused Tickets Needed
Attention! Any person who has 
unused tickets from the Junior 
Prom, please return your tickets 
to Nick Reed immediately. It is 
necessary that they all are in so 
that calculations for the tax report 
can be made.
Instead of the usual Carnegie Day 
Assembly at Carnegie Music Hall 
there will be a program at the Little 
Theater at 11:00 today. Music will 
be furnished by the Mens Glee Club
and the Kiltie Band. Dr. Doherty 
and Dr. Watkins will speak to the 
students on the traditions of Car
negie Day.
Carnegie Day is set aside each 
year in commemoration of Andrew 
Carnegies birthday. In past years, 
it was customary for the students 
and faculty, led by the Kiltie Band, 
to march cn masse to Carnegie 
Music Hall, where they heard sevKappas and Beta Pi To 
Merge As A National
Early in September the Kappa 
Phi Delta Sorority petitioned Kap
pa Kappa Gamma, a leading na
tional sorority, to be granted a char
ter. Then came a period of sus
pense and excitement while the ex
ecutive secretary and members of 
the extension committee of the na-' 
tional sorority visited the local 
sorority to become acquainted with 
them, and later to approve them. On 
November 11 a telegram informed 
the Tech girls that they had been 
granted a charter by Kappa Kappa 
Gamma.
At the time of their installation, 
which will be held the second week
end in February, the Kappas will 
merge with the Beta Pi Sorority in 
Fine Arts. The same evening the 
Pitt Chapter of Kappa Kappa Gam
ma will celebrate its twenty-fifth 
anniversary, thus making the affair 
doubly important.
The Kappas were the first of the 
sororities on our campus to ap
proach a national sorority. As T. J. 
Harmany put it, Were awfully ex
cited!
eral speakers and the Tech Orches
tra. This program lasted from 11:00 
to 1:00.
This year, however, because of 
the accelerated program, the faculty
felt it inadvisable to devote two 
hours to the observance of Carnegie 
Day. The older stud nts. not wish
ing to eliminate entirely this Tech 
tradition, decided to hold an assem
bly at the Little Theater in place 
of the usual celebration. This years 
program will resemble as closely as 
possible those of previous years.
Dance Club Makes Study 
Of Well Known Dances
Hither and yon trim figures 
clad in scanty leotards perform 
many intricate steps while a leader 
encourages them to do their best. 
The dancers are members of the 
Dance Club; the time is any Mon
day night from 7 to 9: and the leader 
is Miss Kanrich, sponsor of the 
club.
The study of the various forms 
of the dance such as the gavotte, 
the jig, and the rarband, in addi
tion to the creation of original 
dances, is the objective of the club. 
Eileen Hilf, preH^nt of Dance 
Club, worked for eight rrg with 
Carl Heinrich, director of the Civic 
Ballet of Pittsburgh. Another mem
ber, Valeria Senko, has been danc
ing almost as long as she has walk
ed, and even now teaches classes in 
McKeesport.
The Tartan will pay 50 cents 
each for the first 12 copies of 
the Tartan, issue 13, dated Sep
tember 7 or 8, 1943 or issue 23, 
November 16, 1943, that are turn
ed in. If you have a copy of either 
of these issues, please contact 
Nick Reed immediately.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1943
CrdUot A'imcUcU'iThe Outlook
Last Wednesday Carnegie Tech played host to journalists and news
papermen from all over the United States who came to attend the ASTP 
press conference. The purpose of this conference was to acquaint the 
public with the excellent work being done by the Army Specialized 
Training Program. If we can judge by the articles printed in the local 
newspapers, the attendants at the conference were terrifically impress
ed not only by the caliber of work being carried on under Army super
vision but by the fact that, to quote the headline in Thursdays paper, 
ASTP Men At Tech Prefer Books Over Binges.
We too appreciate and marvel at the bookwormy attitude of our 
soldier students, but pardon if we arent as shocked as the press. Re
member that from time immemorial we Techites have had to face the 
above-it-all glances of the notoriously anti-social engineers. We do, how
ever, pay sincere tribute to the outstanding contribution that these boys 
are making to the education of the future.
But what is the attitude of the soldier student toward his own role 
in the war? We cannot generalize, we can merely enlarge upon specific 
details that have come to our attention during the past year. ' There are 
of course many exceptions, but the general run of feeling in the campus 
barracks is that these boys have walked into the soft end of the con
flict and are letting their buddies overseas buff the blows. According to 
one rather cynical gentleman, ASTP stands for nothing more hair-raising 
than All Safe Till Peace. Even though the men may acknowledge to 
themselves that they are doing something vital towards victory, the re
sults arent as tangible as a bullet through the stomach. They find it 
hard to feel that they are giving their all behind a slide rule when their 
brothers are fighting it out behind a bombsight. The soldiers themselves 
are not entirely to blame for their attitude. Little insignificant cracks 
like the Pitt Air Cadets favorite taunt, Join the ASTP and release a 
WAC for active duty, do their bit to build a feeling of inadequacy.
Are there grounds for such an attitude? We say no. After all, trite as 
it may sound, this is a war to preserve the democratic way of life. The 
essence of democracy is education. Were it not for the ASTP, there would 
be an entire lost generation, todays youth, sans the social, intellectual, 
and economic advantages of a college education. But this reason, sufficient 
in itself, was not what prompted the Army to install such a program. To 
win this war, we need specialists, men skilled not only in handling a gun 
or driving a tank, but in engineering, in the professions, in language, in 
transportation, in communications. Guns and tanks may make the loud
est noise, but the latter are the skills that insure efficiency and ultimate 
victory. Approximately 140,000 men are here at Carnegie Tech and 222 
other colleges not because the Army couldnt use them as cannon-fodder, 
but because they were picked from millions as the men qualified to back 
the attack with brains.
If the ASTPs could only develop, with the aid of the civilian and 
Army morale-builders who do so much flag-waving for our war heroes, 
a confidence and pride in themselves is the brains behind the guns, the 
rest of the world would come to recognize them as such. Men of the 
Army Specialized Training Program, take your cue from your insignia, 
the sword of valor superimposed on the lamp of learning.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Curnegle Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh, Pa.
PB ONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENIY 4557
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief .............................SC. 6888
Business Manager........................SC. 8951
mnnHNTCD FOR TheCaThr hngiteCmCTH ND
National Advertising Service, Inc.* College Publishers Representative 
37_ CARNEGI STUO FUH LGY,O FO LO
Chicago  bostoh  Los aroei.es * Sar frarcisco 
Entered a* econ-c!M matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods.Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief ........................................................................................................... Louisa Saul
Business Manager ............................................................................................................Nick Reed
Co-Managing Editors...............................................................Gerry Edelson, Elaine Levin
Make-up Editors........................................................................Gerald. Brickman, Aron Beck
Copy Editors......................................................................Ernie Lowenstein, Walter Ellman
Headline Editor.......................................................................................... Marshall Nurejfiberg
News Editor........................................................................................................ Adeline Herlick
Feature Editor.................................................................................................................. Al Perry
Printing Editor .............................................................................................................. Sy Corwin
Sports Editor ......................................................................................................... Jim Montague
Personnel Manager............................................................................................... Gerry Racusin
Assistant Business Manager.............................................................'.................... Merle Wolff
Circulation Manager........ .................................................................................. Chet Feinberg
Photography Editor ............................................................................................... Tom Bokman
Photography Staff......................................................................... Dick Bingham, Joe Urban
Sports StaffJohn Lindberg, Mike Gingold, John Krummel, Dick ONeill, Al Neleson, Andy Pepper, Chuck Peterson, Ed Von Halle.
ReportersLucille Emmel, Jean Boltey, Hannah Esterman, Mary Jane Ferguson. 
Bill Gladstone, Clara Herron, Nick Georges, Helen Miller, Anita Newell, Lu
cille Shulberg, Carolyn Srulson, Jolene Svirman, Ruth Tisherman, Alma Wein
berger, Louise Grant.
Temporarily overshadowed by the 
important events of the last weeks, 
but nevertheless exceedingly im
portant for the future of our coun
try, a controversial issue concern
ing the fundamental political prac
tices of the government should 
soon gain great prominence. It is 
the ominous and old, yet never 
solved question of the two-thirds 
majority needed in the Senate to 
ratify any treaty this country 
makes. Should the Senate retain 
this power, or should ratification 
proceedings be handled in a more 
democratic way? The answer to 
this problem is so important that it 
may well decide our foreign policy 
for the next decades.
Those of you who have read the 
text of the recent Connally Resolu
tion on post-war world organization 
will have noticed that the last para
graph stated that any treaty made 
to affect the purposes of this resolu
tion on behalf of the Government 
of the United States with any other 
nation or any association of nations, 
shall be made only by and with the 
advice and consent of the Senate, 
provided two-thirds of the Senators 
present concur. To the superficial 
observer, this is nothing but a re
statement of the clause of our Con
stitution which, in similar words, 
makes the same regulation. They 
fail to realize that Senator Connally 
inserted this clause with the def
inite purpose to appease the pro
fessional jealousy which the Senate 
has for its prerogatives. With this 
paragraph, Connally serves notice 
to the President and the American 
people, that the Senate has no inten
tions of relinquishing its absolute 
hold over our foreign affairs, and 
will continue to pass all treaties 
by the old processes.
At first glance these old processes 
seem satisfactory. But turn the 
two-thirds rule around, and it be
comes a one-third rule. One'third 
of a relatively small body can veto 
any treaty against the will of the 
American people. Only seventeen 
menone-third of the Senate quorumcan, with utter disregard for 
public opinion, nullify any decision 
made by the eventual peace con
ference. All other laws or deci
sions made by federal and state leg
islative bodies are decided upon by 
a simple majority, and can only be 
defeated if more than one half of 
the members of the body deem it so 
advisable. The Senate, however, 
which is not even a proportionate 
representation of the American 
people  we must remember that 
every state, disregarding size and 
population, has an equal number of 
representatives in the bodyallows 
less than a score of its members to 
change the decisions of the Amer
ican people. It is a mathematical 
anarchy.
Twenty-five years ago, the great 
issues of world peace, the League of 
Nations, the World Court, were ap
proved by a majority of the Senate, 
but failed to receive the necessary 
two-thirds majority because of the 
blind opposition of Senator Lodge 
and his isolationist phalanx. Bitter
ly disillusioned, President Wilson 
commented: A little group of will
ful men, representing no opinion 
but their own, have rendered the 
great Government of the United 
States helpless and contemptible.
This time, history must not re
peat itself. The situation can be 
remedied in three ways. The for
eign policy can be formulated by 
executive agreements, the method 
used to formulate the Atlantic char
ter and the recent Moscow Declara
tion. Treaties can also be sanction 
ed by joint resolutions of botl 
Houses of Congress. History student 
will remember that Texas and 
Hawaii became part of America by 
such a procedure. Both these meth
ods, however, involve compromises 
which, in the long run, will bring 
up new problems. The best and 
most foolproof method is a Consti
tutional amendment to the effect 
that all treaties be ratified by a 
majority vote of both houses. This 
is a simple and direct way to apContinued on page 4
.. ACAC Minutes..
Twenty-fourth Meeting 
November 18, 1943.
The meeting was called to order at 5:20 
p.m.
Present: Messrs. Marcus, Fairchild, Pe
terson, Wolff, Talaber, and Sher; Misses 
Pantazi, Rial, and Bloom.
COMMITTEE REPORTS
Publications
Mr. Wolff reported that at the Publi
cations meeting on November 16 it was 
decided that to improve TARTAN issues 
someone will be in charge of proof-read
ing at the printers each week, starting 
next semester. The Committee also ap
proved the plan whereby TARTANS will 
be distributed to AST students as they 
are to the rest of the student body. 
Elections
Mr. Sher moved that the petition of 
Mildred Murrer for vice-president of the 
Sophomore class of Margaret Morrison be 
accepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that the petition for 
an election, in which only girls are to 
vote, to be held on Tuesday, November 
30, from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m. to select 
girls from the Senior class as candidates 
for queen of the Christmas Dance on De
cember 4, be accepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that the petition of 
Naomi Skillington for A. C. A. C. repre
sentative from Arts School be accepted.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that Naomi Skilling
ton be accepted as senior Arts School rep
resentative on A. C. A. C.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that the only students 
eligible for the position of Engineering 
representative on A. C. A. C. be those in 
the senior class.
Motion carried.
Mr. Sher moved that elections for En
gineering representative for A. C. A. C. 
and for vice-president of the Sophomore 
class in Margaret Morrison be held on 
Tuesday, November 30.
Motion carried.
Special Committee
Miss Pantazi reported on the program 
for Carnegie Day Assembly. It was sug
gested that the program consist of speak
ers, a call day, musical selections, and
skits.
OLD BUSINESS
Mr. Peterson moved that Mr. Murphy 
discuss the constitution of the Progressive 
Discussion Group with the Executive 
Council of that group so that suggested 
changes can be made.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS ,
Mr. Murphy read the constitution sub
mitted by W. E. T. W.
Mr. Peterson moved that the constitu
tion be tabled for one week.
Motion carried.
It was recommended that A. C. A. C. 
consider the question of what could be 
done with organized surpluses. 
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
SALLY BLOOM,
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
one of the profs
One of the first persons a fresh
man girl meets at Tech is Miss 
Louise Russell, an instructor in the 
Physical Education Department. 
During the War Bond drives she 
was often seen behind the desk in 
the front hall of Administration 
Building. It was under her lead
ership that our Blood Donor Drive 
progressed as it did.
After receiving a degree at 
Wellesley, she took two years grad
uate work in the department of 
hygiene and physical education. For 
the next two years she taught at 
Hampton Institute, Virginia, a 
school for colored people. During 
the last war Miss Russell acted as a 
physiotherapist in the Medical 
Corps. As her unit was part of the 
Army of Occupation, she spent six 
months in France and six more in 
Germany working with wounded 
soldiers and helping them regain 
use of their bodies through physio
therapy.
Her favorite way of spending 
time, money, and energy is travel
ing. But when Miss Russell travels, 
she makes up her own itinerary, 
staying in one place as long as she 
wants to and moving on when she 
pleases. By traveling in this way 
she becomes familiar with the peo
ple because she spends most of her 
time with them. Most of her travel
ing is done during the summers: 
summer vacations have found her in 
Australia, the South Sea Islands, 
Europe and South America. One 
year she took a leave of absence 
from her teachings to make a world 
trip. Her last voyage abroad was 
two years before the outbreak of the 
war. At that time she traveled 
through Germany, France, Austria 
and Poland. Perhaps that is the 
stimulus for all of her enthusiasm 
in war work. Miss Russell genu
inely liked the people she met in 
those countries. The Germans were 
friendly and the Japanese were 
wonderful to us, although we are 
disappointed in them now. She 
seems to have a truly international 
viewpoint and tries to understand 
all types of people.
Since the war, she has spent her 
summers in the country near Bos
ton, growing a victory garden and 
supplying the community with 
vegetables. She enjoys reading
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
. . . Miss Louise Russell
present-day books about the war; 
formerly biography and travel 
books were her favorites. In the 
winter Miss Russell attends the the
atre, concerts and movies, and 
Christmas finds her in Boston.
New Technical Staff 
Headed By Leo Fyer
Starting with the Tau Beta Pi is
sue, the Technical will be under 
new management. The new editor is 
Leo Fyer, a junior electrical.
The supporting cast features Ger
ald OBrien, M. E. Soph., as adver
tising manager; Daniel Schacher, 
EE Soph., and Leonard Lerman, 
Chem Soph., as feature editors; 
Jack Gill, Aero Jr., as TechnoWings editor; Kenneth Welch, P 
and D Fr., as art editor; and Del 
Walton, Chem E Fr., on book re
views. The photogs are Larry Kettler, EE Fr., and James Polyzou, EE 
Soph. John Stephenson, William 
Jordan, both Chem E Sophomores, 
will handle the circulation.
Tech ASTP Unit . . .
Continued from page 1. 
progress in the gymnasiums. As 
representatives of typical barracks 
on campus, Henderson Hall was 
opened for inspection. Chow, the 
most popular feature in any sol
diers program, was the climax of 
the tour, with the visitors eating in 
the mess hall along with the AST 
men. Typical mess featured steak, 
French fried potatoes, corn, peach 
salad, custard pie, milk, bread, and 
butter.
Commenting on the attitude of 
Techs AST men at the Press Con
ference which completed the days 
program, Colonel Pirkey said, Since 
Ive been here, not one soldier has 
been arrested as drunk or disorder
ly. At first I thought something was 
wrong, now I know it is the usual 
thing. I think this fact, more than 
any other, is indicative of their se
rious intent.
Tech In An Uproar 
As Library Is Moved 
To New IH Location
If you are not privileged to be a 
Maggy Murph student, you proba
bly knew nothing about it before 
last week. If you are a Tartan re
porter, you still dont know any
thing about it. Its all very secre
tive and exciting and if you can dis
cover whats going on, this partic. 
ular reporter would appreciate your 
furnishing some information on the 
subject.
Item One. The girls tell me that 
for weeks there have been little men 
who creep quietly into the Study 
Hall in MMCC, hold up a tape meas
ure, and screech at each other in 
loud stage whispers about plumbs, 
kilometers, cubic centimeters, and 
other units of linear measurement. 
These little men have refused to ex
plain what they were doing, and it 
was thought they were installing 
more mirrors to make it easier not 
to study, until they made off with 
the one big looking glass the girls 
used for primping purposes.
Item Two. The Social Work girls 
have been chased to the basement 
of Maggy Murph to keep company 
with the incinerator, and the Mili
tary Department in Industries has 
gone skyward from room 204 to a 
new location in room 335 to make 
room for SOMETHING.
Item Three. In the dark of the 
night long lines of G. I. Uniforms 
were seen by this correspondent 
(and what was I doing out after 
curfew?) crawling back and forth 
from Industries to the Hut with 
huge piles of (censored by the gov
ernment) which they deposited on 
long shelves in room 204 IH. Sev
eral detachments of Joes were also 
carrying stacks of those unmention
able things with title pages, bindCarnegie Women Help 
To Keep Morale High
Former Carnegie Tech students 
who are now serving the United 
States in the armed forces will be 
probably very much surprised and, 
we hope, very happy when they re
ceive letters written by girls who 
are Carnegie students at present.
Each girl received one or two 
addresses of Techmen overseas 
from Dean Yons office and proceed
ed to write a letter telling of the 
many changes which have occurred 
on the campus recently. They also 
included many bits of interest con
cerning Pittsburgh for the men who 
were out-of-town students.
Dean Yon has expressed pleasure 
at this activity and at the coop
eration shown by the girls. Not only 
will this statement of approval, but 
their own desire to be helpful, give, 
the girls more incentive.
ings, and soooo many pages, to the 
former Social Work lab. in MMCC.
With all these fascinating facts to 
study, your reporter has come to the 
conclusion that plans for the Sol
dier-Civilian Canteen are finally 
under way at the Hut and that room 
204 IH is to be the new headquarters 
for the books formerly housed in, 
that little brown building. A branch 
for the convenience of the MMCC 
girls will be set up in Study Hall 
and the old Social Work lab and 
everyone will be happymaybe.
WESTERN PENNSYLVANIAS MOST COMPLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND 
POPULAR RECORDS
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
Thanksgiving Dinner
 AT 
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
SPECIAL MENU
DELICIOUS FOOD
MODERATE PRICES
Served in
DINING ROOM IMPERIAL ROOM 
COFFEE SHOP
Also a la Carte
Opposite Mellon Institute 
MAYFLOWER 7700
Have a Coca-Cola = Qu Tal?
(WHATS UP?)
... in Panama as in Pittsburgh
iQu tali is the friendly Wbat's up? of the citizen of Panama. Equally 
cordial is the Have a Cake" of the American soldier. Around the 
world Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,has become 
the high-sign of friendly-minded folks.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Its natural for popular name* to acquire friendly abbrevia
tions. That's why you heat 
called Coke".

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1943
Theme Of Second U. S. War Time 
Thanksgiving Is Silent Devotion
By Helen Miller
Thanksgiving Day! Do we really 
appreciate these words, and do we 
fully understand their meaning?
This year, especially, Thanksgiving 
has deep significance. Who would 
have dreamed, just one short year 
ago, in those dark hours when joy 
and hope seemed to have gone out 
of our lives, that v/e would have so 
much to be thankful for today? Now 
the tide of battle has turned and 
the promise that peace will one day 
reign again throughout the world 
. . . that is much to be thankful for.
There wont be much of the usual 
Thanksgiving Day celebration pres
ent this year. Many people will be 
content with an everyday meal be
cause they realize that the turkey 
dinner with all the dressings will 
be given to our men and women in 
the Armed Services. A feeling of 
reverence will, however, still be 
present although it will not be seen, 
for it is true that silent devotion is 
as effective as vocal outburst.
Many Carnegie Tech students 
have brothers, sisters, fathers, and 
friends fighting with our Armed 
Forces. Do these students realize, 
what these beloved ones are fighting 
for? Do we understand that our 
loved ones are fighting for the day 
when there will be peace on earth, 
fighting for the day when they can, 
in spite of their lack of free time,
'ome home to enjoy too the little
dirt colyum
HUNT ARMORY
EAST LIBERTY 
2 Blocks from Penn & Highland
EIGHT BIG DAYS AND NITES STARTINGSunday, Nov. 21
2:30 and 8:30 P.M. DAILY THRU __________SUNDAY, NOV. 28_________
See! Larrv Sunbrocks Sensational
RODEO
WITH TOP HANDS IN THRILLING COMPETITION
luxuries which they once possessed? 
Yes, theyre fighting to preserve the 
freedom which we enjoyed . . . we 
do have much for which to be 
thankful.
Student Employment
Those who are interested in applying 
for the following positions should see 
Mrs. Ser.rle in I. H. 164.
Off Campus Jobs
Boys
Driving jobexperienced driver to 
chauffeur a lady in Schenley Apartments.
New York Timeswants a representa
tive on the Tech Campus, will pay 6c for 
each Sunday copy sold and l%c for each 
daily issue.
Railroad Mail Servicefor Christmas 
rush, 90-95c an hour.
Sorting of Christmas mailfor Christ
mas rush in Post Office, 81% after six, 
75c befoie six.
Handymanin private home for Satur
days, $5.00.
Wash windows and clean wallpaper 
two afternoons a week in a private home, 
50c per hour.
Clean wallpaperin private home, 55c 
per hour.
Check meters and testsat Mellon In
stitute, five nights a week, 5:00-12:00, 40c 
per hour, can study.
Work in florist shopEast End, after 
noons and Saturdays, 60-65c per hour.
Boys with cars to deliver for florist 
during Christmas, gas furnished.
Attendant for service stationweek 
nights 6:00-12:00, $30 per week.
Girls and Boys
SellingSears and Roebuck, East Lib
erty, Wednesday, Friday, Saturday, men 
60cwomen 45c.
Running ElevatorSt. Margarets Hos
pital, 3 P. M.-9 P. M., Saturday and Sun
day, $2 plus dinner and carfare.
Inventories of Motor PartsDecember 
4 and 5, Saturday and Sunday, 65c per 
hour.
Girls
UsherBuhl Planetarium, 50c per hour, 
any evening.
Sellingat Hornes and Kaufmanns, 
any afternoon, Monday evening, Satur
day, 45c per hour.
Answer telephonein home of doctor 
on Thanksgiving Day, 5:00-11:00 P. M., 
$1.50.
On Campus Jobs 
Boys
Substitute waitersfor dormitory, free 
dinner.
Handymanfor Saturday work at home 
of faculty member, 50c per hour.
And Hollywood Daredevils BigThrill Show
162PERFORMERS162
0 See! Cowboys in Great Rodeo , Contests!9 See! Americas Greatest Circos Acts! 0 See! Bronc RidingBull Dogging Calf Roping! See! Elephants, Dogs, Ponies, Seal Acts!a See! Stratosphere ManTerrific Hi __________________Act!_________________
* AMERICAS GREATEST DAREDEVILSSuperman
LEAPS HIS CAR OVER A BUS
THE LONE RANGER
Impersonated, Defends the Stage Coach
ITS TERRIFIC  TITANIC  COLOSSAL
TICKETS UIGGETTS
All Stores and at Hunt Armory 
15c, *1.10, f 1 65, BOX SEATS 82.20.CHILDREN ANY SEAT, S5c. 
Phone MOntrose 1808 for Reservations 
Mail Orders accepted to Hut Armory, ____ E. Liberty. .
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to RentTYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
. . . by
Git on board, lil chillun! Im back 
by unpopular demand! First: . . . 
John Krummel is a Delt, even 
though the Betas would like to have 
him.
Tell me: . . . The Delts are really 
going Wolff, arent they, with the 
election of Merle Wolff as house 
president to succeed John Wolff. . . 
Is Dick Conley the' reason for Marge 
Maddox appearing in public with 
only her Beetle pin on? . . . What 
happened to Ann Gares Delta Skull 
phantom . . . Has Chuck Dunn givOn the Campus
Thanksgiving
Civilian classes on the Trimester 
Plan, Day, Evening, and Part-time, 
will have no classes on Thursday, 
November 25. Classes will be held 
as usual on Friday and Saturday. 
Classes will not be held on Thurs
day, November 25, for Civilian class
es on Quarter Plan, for the ASTP, 
and the ASTRC.
B, B, & B.
Recital in the Exhibition Room, 
Arts building, from 12:00 until 1:00.
Tuesday, November 23
Symphony No. 2..................Sibelius
Wednesday, November 24
Cello recital by Eugene Eicher. 
Thursday, November 25
Fragments from operas..........Gluck,
Bellini, Mozart, Richard Straus. 
Friday, November 26 
Music by String Trio.
Thistle Pictures
Those desiring pictures of Fra
ternities and other activities groups 
may place their orders in room 232 
IH between four and six oclock Fri
day, November 26. Prices are $1.50 
for the 8x10 size; $2.50 for the 11x14. 
A.C.A.C. Elections 
Correction: Any student in the 
College of Engineering may run for 
representative on the A. C. A. C. 
Petitions must be in Dean Murphys 
office Friday, November 26, at 4:00. 
Elections will be held on Tuesday, 
November 30.
On November 30, elections will al
so be held for the Vice-President of 
the Sophomore class of the Mar
garet Morrison College.
Publications Banquet 
Pi Delta Epsilon is sponsoring 
a banquet for the staffs of all pub
lications, to be held on Tuesday, No
vember 30th. The place, time and 
price will be announced at a later 
date.
All members of publications who 
wish to attend must give their 
names to Miss T. J. Harmony, M. 
M. C. C., by Tuesday, November 
23rd.
Aron Beck
en up the girl back home for Ginny 
Lerch? ,
Theyre still ringing: . . .The ex
pected engagement of Mary Pollis 
and Benny Lagueruela was an
nounced at Intersorority Formal 
... . Rosanne Bearman recently .anIn a HURRY?
You Can Get
24 HOUR 
CLEANING 
SERVICE
at
Campus Cleaners
4609 FORBES ST. 
MUseum 1288
nounced her engagement to Joe 
Lobe from back home, New York.
Lesson One: . . . Somewhere in 
the colyum there is a picture illus
trating lesson one in the art of how 
to upstage a picture. The couple so 
successfully mugging this picture 
which originally covered a quarter 
of the hall, is none other than the 
Beta Sigs own Joe Linett and the 
most conscientious freshman Tartan 
reporter, Helen Miller.
In the way of dancers: ... Vir
ginia Kelley and Bill Kolb compet
ing with Peggy Kohey and A1 Warrech for top jitterbug honors at J. 
P. . . . Judy Skeehan and Bill Hel
ler leading the field as smoothest 
dancers at J. P. . . . Candidates for 
marathon dancing are Adeline Herlick and Cadet Tracey Nabers who 
missed only four dances at Inter
sorority Formal . . . Best couple who 
werent at the formal were I and my 
little black book; well definitely be 
at Winter Carnival. You can never 
tell  I may get a date!
The Outlook . . .
Continued from page 2. 
proach the problem. Executive 
agreements cannot touch the final 
question of the peace treaty and of 
international authority. The joint 
resolution is an evasion of the is
sue. The two-thirds rule allows a 
small minority to delay, obstruct, 
and sabotage our government.
The Constitution has been im
proved before, and the only serious
ly archaic thing left is this twothirds rule on treaties. This too can 
be changed. We must use the Con
stitution for the National Welfare, 
and not let one provision carry us 
to our destruction.
E. L.
Intramural Bowling
<$OWL| M?
Keep Fit by 
\ Bowling
University Recreation
On Craig Off Forbes

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1943THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
SPORTS
Carnegie Hoopsters 
Prospects Very Good
Carnegie Tech will definitely 
have a mighty good team. It will 
be one of the prettiest teams to 
watch that we have had in several 
years. So says Max Hannum, bas
ketball coach. The probable lineup 
is as follows:
First Team Position Second Team 
Joe Kelly F Steve Korfonta
Hugh Smith F Bud Hathaway
John Shott or
A1 Nelesen C Mai Festenstein
Jack Sherman G Charles Duffett
Howard Levy G Bill Scherb
Our chief liabilities this year will 
be colleges with the Navy program 
and an inexperienced second string. 
Joe Kelly and Hugh Smith will 
probably comprise our scoring 
punch, Kelly for his deadeye shoot
ing, and Smith for his aggressive 
ball playing. Kelly is a little er
ratic now, but we hope his playing 
will smooth out by the start of the 
season.
The hoopsters have been training 
to combat both zone and man to 
man defenses. About 60% of the 
teams we play this season will use 
a zone defense. A man to man de
fense is preferable to a zone as more 
aggressive defense is possible, how
ever, if a team is small and inexperi
enced, it is forced to use the zone. 
The zone also permits the defend
ing team to have five men chasing 
;he rebounds off the hoop instead 
)f one or two.
Our schedule is as follows:
December 3.University of Akron 
at Akron, O.
December 4.Case at Cleveland*
O.
December 8Westminster College 
at Pittsburgh.
December 11.Geneva College at 
Beaver Falls, Pa.
December 28.University of Ken
tucky at Buffalo, N. Y.
January '5.University of Pitts
burgh at Stadium.
January 14.Penn State at Pitts
burgh.
January 22.W. & J. College at 
Washington, Pa.
January 26.West Virginia Uni
versity at Pittsburgh.
January 29.University of Pitts
burgh at Carnegie Tech.
February 5.Westminster College 
at New Wilmington, Pa.
February 9.W. & J. College at 
Pittsburgh.
February 12Case at Pittsburgh.
February-19.Geneva College at 
Pittsburgh.
March 1.Penn State at State 
College, Pa.
March 4.West Virginia Univer
sity at Morgantown, W. Va.
GET HEPPED 
ON YOUR HIT PARADE
BY BUYING 
HIT RECORDS
AT fMAJESTIC
ELECTRIC
APPLIANCE CO.
111-113 ATWOOD STREET 
Medical Arts Bid*.
Eleven Teams Fight 
For Volleyball Crown
By Andy Pepper
Sandwiched in between the open
ing of the bowling season and a pro
spective winning basketball season 
(were not kidding either), volley
ball has made its debut. The sched
ule was no sooner released, how
ever, than some changes were made 
in playing dates.
Last week TDP played Citcom on 
Wednesday  a date on which no 
games were to be scheduled, and 
SAE defeated Sigma Nu 3-0 for the 
best out of three necessary to win a 
game.
The scores for the games played 
on Monday were as follows: DU2, 
Sigma Nu0; Kappa Sigs lost a 
close game 2-1 to TX, and DTD lost 
to BTP 2-0. A little later Citcom 
won handily from PiKA 2-0 and 
BSR nosed out TDP 2-1. The next 
day DU again showed great form 
(especially Joe Eiger) as they de
feated a good Kappa Sigma team 
2-0. The Betas bowed to Citcom 2-0, 
and TDP beat SAE 2-1 (a game still 
undecided as both teams claim to 
have won by the same score). Wed
nesday was an open date, but the 
teams were back at it again on 
Thursday. KS won its first game of 
the 9-day-old season as it beat a 
weak DTD team. Joe Lang played 
well in this contest for the Delts, 
but in vain. TX dropped one to BTP
2-0, PiKA was bested 2-1 by an alert 
TDP team, and SAE beat Sigma Nu
3-0.
Ping Pong Contest 
Entries Due Nov. 17
Entries for the all-school pingpong tournament will close Wed
nesday, November 24. The tourna
ment is open to soldiers and civilians 
alike. Girls are encouraged to enter 
the singles, doubles, and mixed dou
bles, where separate matches will 
be scheduled for them. Play will 
begin immediately after Thanksgiv
ing.
Dance 
Where Its Young and Gay
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on the
CONTINENTAL 
TERRACE
om85 cents per person
Plus Tax
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Fighting ASTP Eleven 
Noses Out All Stars
Theres the kick-off! The ball 
soars down the field, and the All 
Star game is underway. The Army 
receives and Joyce returns the kick 
up the field. A few minutes later, 
Joyce tosses the first touchdown 
pass and the score stands Army 6 - 
All Stars 0. The pass for the extra 
point is complete and the score is 
7-0. In the second quarter, Landerman passes to Lucas for the first 
All Star talley, but fails to convert. 
The teams surges back and forth
the rest of the game, but neither 
scores; the game ending Army 7-All 
Stars 6. Mike Gingold had a lot of 
fun announcing his first football 
game, while the Kiltie Band livened 
things up during the half. Most of 
the cheering seemed to be for Gingold, as some soldier cheerleaders 
led a locomotive for him.
NOTICE
West Virginia Universitys 1943 
all opponent football team was an
nounced on November 17. Carnegie 
Tech placed two men in: Dave
Crump at guard and Johnny McIn
tosh at halfback.
IN THE SERVICECARRY FUNDS 
YOU CANT 
LOSE!
Thats the kind you carry when you change your cash into 
AMERICAN EXPRESS TRAVELERS CHEQUES. Travel funds that 
you can spend everywhere and are refunded promptly if lost or stolen.
Issued in denominations of $10, $20, $50 and $100. Cost 75c for 
each $100. Minimum cost of 401 for $10 to $50. For sale at banks 
and Railway Express Offices.
AMERICAN EXPRESS 
TRAVELERS CHEQUES
    ' ^ -xV1 ' I
^7*%%
Just a G.I. Seamstress?
If youre forever getting out the needle and thread, 
here are some tips:
When a button comes off, sew it on well the 
first time. A slip-shod job just means youll have 
to do it over again soon.
Make your next shirt an Arrow. Arrow but
tons are attached with a patented stitch, which 
anchors them to a shirt.
Check your sizeyou may be wearing too small 
a shirt and therefore causing too great a strain 
on the buttons and seams. The Sanforized label 
in an Arrow shirt guarantees shrinkage no greater 
than 1%no danger of an Arrow ever getting 
too 6mall!
ARROW
SHIRTS  TIES  HANDKERCHIEFS  UNDERWEAR  SPORT SHIRTS 
? BUY WAR BONDS AND STAMPS it
LEONARD S MENS SHOP
CAMPUS HEADQUARTERS
ARROW PRODUCTS
Corner Forbes at Atwood 
We also carry a complete line of Army Clothing and Accessories

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 23, 1943^tie dTamecjie plaid
Received a most welcome card 
from Sergeant Fred Fargotstein, 
draftsman with the 75th Railroad 
Shop Battalion in North Africa. We 
would like to thank Fred for his 
well wishes to the Plaid and we 
all hope that he will be back with 
us in the near future . . . Under
stand the mechanical engineers had 
their wives along, for a change, at 
the party held at George Brassins 
last Saturday night. Could that have 
been the reason Fred Vichich went 
a little easy on the beer? The 
Camettis and the Coreys will prob
ably be the only ones to have turkey 
for Thanksgiving as they took the 
others over in the card game. Poor 
Joe Eash even had to throw in his 
watch to stay in the game . . . Note 
to Evelyn RymarIf you want to 
know where your husband is spend
ing all these evenings hes out, just 
see the psychology instructor. Hear 
she has a gadget that shows 
whether he is telling the truth or 
not . . . Saw Marion Frost tother 
night and found the answer to her 
nonappearance at night school ac
tivities this yearshes now enroll
ed in the day school as a Junior. 
Stop around when you get time, 
Marion. Were always glad to see 
you . . . Bob Hobson is now a Sec
ond Lieutenant and Navigator in 
the Army Air Force and is station
ed overseas. Hope he is doing as 
fine a job for Uncle Sam as he did 
when he was at C. I. T. With all 
these former night school students 
serving our country it will be no 
time at all until Hitler and Hirohito 
decide to give up . . . Whats this 
we hear about Dolores Zielinski be
ing escorted home from class last 
Wednesday night? Wonder if he 
could have been that dark-haired 
gent who sits behind her in Har
mony? This is beginning to look 
bad . . .
*7a ^llte >&itosi
What, no Plaid! That is what I 
said on Wednesday evening when I 
discovered that no papers had been 
delivered to Margaret Morrison to 
be circulated among the students. I 
was disappointed to say the least.
I had heard rumors about a dance 
to be held on November 27 and I 
could hardly wait to receive my 
copy of the publication to learn all 
the details. The most important 
question in my mind that I wanted 
answeredwill it be a couple dance 
or can we girls come without es
corts? I suppose I will have to wait 
until the next issue to be enlighten
ed. That is, if I receive that issue. 
Well, I can only keep my fingers 
crossed and hope.
Yours, for a bigger and better 
circulation ofjthe Plaid.
Turkey Season 
Fine Arts Bldg
Greetings Gates! Lets circulate! 
Lets get together for a grand time 
at the Thanksgiving Dance to be 
held at the Fine Arts Exhibition 
Hall, on Saturday, November 27. 
The time? From nine until?
And for those hep-cats who work 
up appetites that pull on ones 
Adams apple, refreshments will be 
served. Oh yes! Mustnt forget to 
mention that we can all swing and 
sway to the music of one of the best 
local bands you have ever heard. 
Who can tell  maybe there will 
even be some of those oh so pop
ular polkas and Virginia Reels.
All this, and fun, too, for only 50c 
per person. So lads and lassies, get 
out your best bib-and-tucker and 
bring the gang along for a hilarious 
time. And all you girls with boy 
friends and husbands in the Service 
need not feel disloyal; come without 
a date and you can have a good time 
and still be true to your Johnny 
Doughboy. Nor would we think 
of excluding those faithful fellows 
whose gals have joined the Service, 
so well be expecting all of you, too.
This is one way of showing your 
school spirit and getting acquaint
ed at the same time, so dont forget 
the date. Mark down the 27th on 
your calendar for an evening of 
merriment at Exhibition Hall. Its 
a darn good way of digesting that 
turkey.
PeMxmcUitieA' . . .
That ambitious professor-like per
son youve seen around lately is 
none other than Joseph Luncher. 
Commonly nick-named, Joe, he 
loves to munch on spaghetti, but 
Joe says it must have good rich red 
sauce on itand no meatballs! (Methinks he doesnt know what he is 
missing). Anyone knowing him will 
be amazed at his great capacity for 
taking in long refreshing walks and 
movies. He loves to read, loaf (who 
doesnt?) and, last, but not least, 
study his Engineering Drawing. The 
sports that attract him are fast and 
rough, namely, football and basket
ball. Sharing time between these 
activities and that bewitching 
blonde seems to take up a good bit 
of his time. On top of all this, his 
subjects consist of Algebra, Engi
neering, Drawing and Descriptive 
Geometry, andget a load of this 
he still finds time to work on the 
Plaid staff and attend the night 
school social activities. Incidentally, 
his pipe seems to work a charm with 
him. We couldnt help noticing how 
well he can concentrate while puff
ing away. Hes very friendly and 
well-liked by his classmates, so if 
you see him on the campus, just say 
Hello Joe and you will receive a 
friendly greeting in return.
-Dance Time 
.-Sat., Nov. 27
The Lights Are on Again
Several weeks ago in United 
Coastal cities, people were emerging 
from the darkness of a long dimout 
and were gayly singing When the 
lights go on again ...
Those of us who live inland were 
probably oblivious of this event, but 
New Yorkers were thrilled to have 
their city sparkling again now that 
the Army, Navy, Office of Civilian 
Defense, and War Production Board 
have jointly lifted the ban which 
has been in effect for eighteen 
months.
In New York City the Great 
White Way looked a little like prePearl Harbor days. Neon signs and 
unshielded traffic lights added their 
bright colors to Times Square. Once 
more the torch of the Statue of Lib
erty glowed in the harbor. Still 
dark, however, were the bright 
lights that formerly flooded the 
Statue, because, while there was an 
easing of dimout restrictions, the 
new regulations still ban spectac
ular lights near the sea. Many huge 
marquees and advertising signs will 
also remain dark for some time be
cause the War Production Board is 
eager to conserve electrical power.
One phase especially delighted 
shopkeepers in New Yorks great 
business district. There was a surden increase in window-shopping 
which had almost become a lost art.
V-day really seems one step near
er now that the lights are beginning 
to go on again.
Let Us All Give Thanks
Thanksgiving was originated in 
the time of the Pilgrims. Everyone 
familiar with history knows that 
these brave people came to this 
wilderness called America thou
sands of miles from their homes. 
They didnt know just what lay be
fore them nor what the future held, 
but undaunted they plodded on. 
When the first year of their hard
ships had passed these men and 
women had so much for which to be 
thankful, they gathered together 
and held the first Thanksgiving. Al
though they knew that there were 
many more years of toil and trouble 
ahead they were happy knowing 
that their first struggle against all 
the terrors of this new country had 
been won.
This year Thanksgiving should 
mean as much to us as it meant to 
the pilgrims in those days long ago. 
Although this terrific encounter in 
which we are engaged has not been 
overcome, we should give thanks 
for the gains we have made and the 
battles that have been won. Let us 
hope that next Thanksgiving will be 
celebrated with the world at an 
everlasting peace.
The Carnegie Plaid
Page edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions epressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.
Editor-in-Chief ...............................Edward A. MachaNews Editor ................................Joseph M. RymarPhotographer .........................................George RiffleStaff
Charles Colyer S. W. MarcinizynMary DeMaria Ruth McGrawAlbert C. Flanders William McKelveyBetty M. Gorman Arlene McMurrayJohn Hundertmark Caroline NollWilliam E. Kuskie Dorothy PapaJoseph E. Luncher Peggy WilhelmThelma Lifshitz_____________________Elmer Decima
Xmas Dinner Dance 
Schedule For Dec. 18
The first Evening School Christ
mas Dinner Dance will be held on 
Saturday, December 18th at one of 
the downtown hotels. Instead of 
each organization on the Campus 
having their own separate affair as 
in the past years, the Evening Stu
dent Council has combined with 
the three Campus Fraternities, Nu 
Sigma Alpha, Phi Nu, and Sigma 
Delta Phi to sponsor the affair. 
Dancing will be to a local orchestra 
and informality will reign. All eve
ning students are invited to attend. 
Bring your friends.
Social Chairmen from each organ
ization will meet Friday, November 
26, to formulate plans.
( ... to formulate plans) for this 
dance, which promises to be the out
standing event of the semester. This 
is the first time that all the social 
organizations of the Evening School 
got together to plan a joint project; 
and their efforts should be rewarded 
by a big attendance.
Letter to the Editor
Dear Friends,
Thanks very much for the Plaid 
which I received via the folks at 
homeand thanks, too, for the wellwishes. Everything is pretty much 
under control around here these 
daysand Im really tired of being 
around here. Glad to see that the 
Evening School is making a go of it 
againand I hope that all will be 
back to normal by next year. Best 
of luck in all your enterprises. Hope 
to see you soon.
Fred Fargotstein.
KEEP OH * * * * *
* -4tt&cA /
WITH WAR BONDS
Seemillers Dairy StoreC. S. EDMAN
and LuncheonettePRINTER
417 S. CRAIG ST. Just Off Forbes6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
*****
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
