Betsy Suesserott
Kappa
Caroletta Valencourt
Theta
Lii Spears
Delta Gamma
Evie Eld
B Tower
Alice Kuhn
Chi O
Barbara Waddell
Delta Gamma
Ann Fairbanks
Sig Kap
Janet Shoop
Theta
Sandi Ruben
Citcom
Barbara Meyers
Chi O
Marian Ratner
A E Phi
Susette Grove
A Tower
Joanne Hurley
Tri Delt
Ginny Tennant
C Tower
Candidates Chosen 
For Military Ball
Ann Krutilla
Tri Delt
Janet Dieckow
Sig Kap
Sally Beltz
A E Phi
Marilyn Casey
Kappa
VOL. 49No. 10 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., NOV. 22, 1955
Semesters Vacation 
Presents Opportunity
Tartan
Since our staff of reporters 
has grown to the point where 
some of the members are be
ginning: to feel neglected and 
yet the news still doesnt gush 
in as profusely as it could, we 
are going to have a meeting 
of all reporters, present and 
prospective, in order to ex
plain some matters of policy. 
This will also provide an op
portunity for those people to 
see some of the others with 
whom they are working.
The meeting will be brief 
but important, and will be 
held in the Carnegie Union at 
7:30 p.m. on Thursday, De
cember 1. There will not be 
another issue of the TARTAN 
preceding that date.
WQED
Educational television sta
tion WQED is looking for two 
part time staff photographers 
to take pictures for WQEDs 
Program Previews and for use 
with press releases. Picture 
are taken at irregular hours 
but arrangements can be made 
that will be convenient. If in
terested please contact the 
publicity directory, MUseum 
3-1300.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 22, 1955
John Drgon President
Of This Years SnS
By Bob Smith
John Drgon, the president of Scotch n Soda for this year, is a 
person who not only excels in his field of electrical engineering, 
but participates in many campus activities in his spare time.
For WRCT, John has worked with the executive board as an 
engineer and announcer. With* "---------------------------------
two roommates, he produced over 
the station a disk jockey and idle 
chatter program called the 211 
Club. Acting as a member of 
ODK, he was in charge of all the 
gym decorations for the Home
coming Weekend dance.
His most interesting outside 
work has been done in connection
John Drgon
with WQED, Pittsburghs educa
tional television station. Here, 
working as an engineer or camera-man, John has an opportunity 
to observe the problems that arise 
in a television presentation, and, 
he can compare the different so
lutions and technical work need
ed in television and theater pro
grams. Fraterity wise, he be
longs to the Phi Kappa social fra
ternity and is active with the 
Omicron Delta Kappa, Eta Kap
pa Nu and Tau Beta Pi honoraries.
Scotch n Soda
Johns major extra-curricular 
work has been with Scotch n 
Soda. Starting in his freshman 
year working with the stage 
crew, he has succeedingly work
ed as stage carpenter, then pro
duction manager, coordinator, un
til now he is responsible for 
keeping the entire organization 
operating smoothly.
Upon graduation, John hopes to 
be able to combine his electrical 
engineering background with his 
theater interests and work in the 
television world. Up to now, his 
work outside of school during the 
summers has been on the build
ing of motors, transformers, and 
atomic submarines with the Gen
eral Electric, Westinghouse, and 
Allis-Chalmers companies.
Shoot the Works
The show that he enjoyed the 
most was Shoot the Works, a 
fast-moving, well-produced re
vue with the emphasis on a va
riety of numbers and a quick 
simple presentation. John feels 
that a good show is just as enjoy
able after two months of re
hearsal and four final perform
ances as it is during the first 
tryouts, and Shoot the Works 
was a show which always kept 
this high degree of interest.
He expressed the feeling that
WRCT Meeting
There will be an all staff 
meeting of WRCT on Wednes
day, November 30, at 4:30 p.m. 
in Porter Hall, Room 100.
1. SO BRIGHT in its honest, ever-fresh taste.
2. SO BRIGHT in its brisk, frosty sparkle.
3. SO BRIGHT in the bit of quick energy it brings you.
IOTTIED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY it
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANT OF PITTSBURGH 
72* Center Avenue HIIan4 1-7011
"Cok*" it o ngiitiftd trod*-mark. O 1955, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
Council
[Continued from page 1] 
ganization with a large member
ship of college student govern
ments.
A letter from Pitt Student 
Council invited Tech to join the 
Intercity Collegiate Council, to 
which most of the citys colleges 
already belong. Council voted to 
accept the invitation.
The request inthe Tartan last 
week for early budgets was due 
to the fact that the Board of 
Trustees meets in January, and 
the budgets, for which allocations 
are taken from tuitions, must be 
approved by the executives in 
order to be legal. With the bud
gets in this week, Kerry Aquadro, budget chairman, will be 
able to analyze them and submit 
them to Council for approval be
fore January.
this years show is shaping up 
into a well-balanced revue with 
a good variety of comedy, satire, 
and romantic scenes. Interest is 
particularly high with the new 
Theater-in-the-Round. So much 
more can now be done with the 
staging, writing, and producing 
of the show that could never be 
done on the old stage. The danc
ing, singing, and acting will be 
presented in an entirely new set
ting. The show will be a chal
lenge for all the people who 
work in Scotch n Soda this year. 
Different problems will arise, bat 
they have always been overcome
MISSILE AND CONTROL EQUIPMENT DEPARTMENTS  NORTH AMERICAN AVIATION  DOWNEY, CALIFORNIA
Theres 
nothing 
like
50 million 
times a day 
at home, at work 
or while at play
in the past, and' they will con
tinue to be so defeated.
This year the writers, direc
tors, and executive board have all
been working to produce a show 
in the new theater that will be 
interesting and fun for the Spring 
Carnival audience.
ENGINEERING AHEAD FOR A BETTER TOMORROW
Korth American Aviation, inc.
ENGINEERS,
SCIENTISTS,
... . v
PHYSICISTS,
MATHEMATICIANS
Important on-campus 
interviews soon!
ELECTRO-MECHANICAL
Missile Guidance Systems 
Fire and Flight Control Systems 
Computers, Recorders
ROCKET PROPULSION
High Thrust Engines
Propellants
Pumps
SUPERSONIC AIRFRAMES 
Structures 
Thermal Barriers 
Vibrations and Flutter
NUCLEAR ENGINEERING
Research Reactors 
Medical Reactors 
Power Generation Reactors
Contact your placement office today. Make an appointment to
see North American representative, John J. Kimbark on Dec. 6
Interviewing hours 9 A.M.5 PJML
Or write, Engineering Personnel, Missile and Control Equipment 
Depts. 91-2QCOL, North American Aviation, Downey, California
North American Missile and Control Departments 
Representative Will Be Here Dec. 6
Youll learn first hand about the advantages 
and opportunities in choosing a career with a 
future at North American. Here engineers
and scientists are now discovering new 
frontiers in four exciting new fields:

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 22, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
Carnegie Metals Club 
Looks To The Future
By Betsy Kuhn
Every man owes some of his time to the upbuilding of the pro
fession to which he belongs. And what better way is there to 
gain experience, make important contacts, end promote a profession 
than by having membership in its nation-wide organization ? Such 
are the purposes of the Metals*--------------------------------------------------------
Club, an extracurricular activity 
connected with the metallurgy de
partment which affords its mem
bers the opportunity to exchange 
ideas and discuss problems with 
metals experts, among other things..
The Metals Club is an activity 
peculiar to Tech, for very few 
colleges have this student organiaztion, which is a junior club of 
the nation-wide American Society 
ior Metals. Both metallurgy stu
dents and faculty are members of 
Techs club, but membership in 
the ASM is not compulsory for 
either, however, since the ASM 
publishes magazines with the lat
est developments, makes engineer
ing and research information 
available, serves as an employ
ment agency, acts as a consultant, 
and helps all its members no mat
ter what rank, a great percentage
of the metallurgy students are 
members.
Membership in the Metals Club 
includes one meeting per month, 
the opportunity of hearing pro
fessional speakers, participation in 
a picnic and banquet, and receiv
ing the club newspaper, The La
dle. Its ideals, which are to foster 
professional and social develop
ment among student metallurgical 
engineers, are carried out through 
the above-mentioned activities and 
in conjunction with the ASM.
These two organizations, then, 
are well qualified to round out a 
students professional career; so
cially, membership in the Metals 
Club and ASM will involve ban
quets and meetings; professionally 
it will constitute talks with the 
experts and receiving magazines
On Campuswith ' MaxShuman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek, etc.)
HOW TO BE A BWOC
A few weeks ago in this space I passed on some hints to college 
men who wished to become BMOCs. I would be remiss not to do 
the same for college women who wish to become BWOCs.
The first and most basic step on the road to being a BWOC 
is to attract attention. Get yourself noticed. But be very, very 
careful not to do it the wrong way. I mean, any old girl is bound 
to be noticed if she goes around with a placard that says, HEY ! 
LOOKIT ME! Dont you make such a horrid gaffe. On your 
placard put: "ZUT! REGARDEZ-MOIV* This, as you can see, 
lends a whole new dimension of tone and dignity.
Once you have been noticed, it is no longer necessary to carry 
the placard. It will suffice if, from time to time, you make dis
tinctive noises. If, for instance, every three or four minutes 
you cry, Whip-poor-will! you cannot but stay fresh in the 
min is of onlookers.
We come now to clothes, a vital accessory to the BWOCindeed, 
to any girl who wishes to remain out of jail. But to the BWOC 
clothes are more than just a decent cover; they are, it is not too 
much to say, a way of life.
This year the little boy look is all the rage on campus. Every 
coed, in a mad effort to look like a little boy, is wearing short 
pants, knee sox, and boy-shirts. But the BWOC is doing more. 
She has gone the whole hog in achieving little boyhood. She 
has frogs in her pockets, scabs on her knees, down on her upper 
lip, and is followed everywhere by a dog named Spot.
All this, of course, is only by day. When evening falls and her 
date comes calling, the BWOC is the very picture of chic fem
ininity. She dresses in severe, simple basic black, relieved only 
by a fourteen pound charm bracelet. Her hair is exquisitely 
coiffed, with a fresh rubber band around the pony tail. Her 
daytime scuffs have been replaced by fashionable high heeled 
pumps, and she does not remove them until she gets to the movies.
After the movies at the campus cafe, the BWOC undergoes 
her severest test. The true BWOC will never, never, never, order 
the entire menu. This is gluttony and can only cause ones date 
to blench. The true BWOC will pick six or seven good entres 
and then have nothing more till dessert. This is class and is the 
hallmark of the true BWOC.
' jf of
Finally, the BWOC, upon being asked by the cigarette vendor 
which is the brand of her choice, will always reply, Philip 
Morris, of corris! For any girl knows that a Philip Morris 
in ones hand stamps one instantly as a person of taste and 
discernment, as the possessor of an educated palate, as a con
noisseur of the finer, gentler, higher pleasures. This Philip 
Morris, this badge of savoir faire, now comes to you in a smart 
new pack of red, white and gold, in king-size or regular, at 
popular prices, wherever cigarettes are sold. m* shuimin, 195
To all on campus, big or small, men or women, the makers of Philip 
Morris, who bring you this column, extend a cordial invitation to try 
today's gentle Philip Morris, made gentle to smoke gentle.
Over The Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
Preston Tucker is coming back, or so he claims 
in a recent article written for a leading automobile 
magazine. Tucker, as you may recall, manufactured 
for a short time the Tucker, a revolutionary car 
that included many special features. One of his 
new ideas for the American industry was an en
gine in the rear of the car. Contrary to popular be
lief, the Tucker did have a reverse gear, an engine 
in the rear that was a flat pancake job unlike 
anything on the market, and amazing perform
ance.* * *
Tucker plans to market, in the near future, 
another automobile which will revolutionize the 
industry. This car will resemble the old Tucker 
in many ways, but many new features will obso
lete the old model. The new vehicle will incor
porate tue engine in the rear and three headlights, 
but thats where the resemblance stops. The new 
model is primarily designed for runabout driving, 
is low, fast, (top speed of 100 mph), and econom
ical (20 plus miles to the gallon).* * *
Preliminary drawings of the automobile bear 
out Mr. Tuckers claims that theres nothing like 
it on the road. For looks, its unique; for price, 
its economical. Tucker plans to market the au
tomobile at far below other price cars.
* * *
However, many business obstacles stand in the 
path of Mr. Tucker. After the loss that many 
small businesses took when he was not permitted 
to manufacture the last car, will he be able to 
find men willing to risk small fortunes in dealer 
franchise again? Will Tucker be able to buck 
General Motors, Ford, and Chrysler? If he is suc
cessful, Tucker will probably make one of the 
biggest comebacks in American business history. 
* * *
Little quickies: The first snow of the year was 
a delight to many Tech freshmen from the south 
who have never seen the down flakes. By the 
time January comes along, I imagine theyll wish
Notas De Vn Oyente
By Luis de la Macorra
Congratulations are due to the technical staff 
of WRCT for their change in transmission. It has 
been noted by many residents that since WRCT 
moved to 600 kcs, reception is much better. I 
think a hand is also due to Tim Day and Blake 
Berning for the fine job they have been doing in 
improving the overall quality of the programs heard 
through WRCT . . .
Campus Chest campaign is over and I think 
that a round of applause should go to the people 
that were in charge. Some of them were Jan 
Bishop, Evy Alessio, Bill Zakowicz, and so many 
others, not forgetting of course all the solicitors 
that donated their time to such a worthy cause...
Not so long ago, I found a bit of literature and 
I thought that maybe you would like to read it 
too. It went like this: It is not how you comb your 
hair or how you wear your clothes, your perfect 
speech and manner or sophisticated poise, it is the 
warmth inside your heart, the sentiment sincere 
in every kindly thought expressed, that makes 
your friendship dear.. No money and no flattery 
can win affection true, the value of your name 
and face depends at last on you. How well you 
serve your neighbor and the stranger on the street, 
in happiness or sorrow, in triumph or in defeat, 
your interest in the welfare of another soul on 
earth reflects the final measure of your more im
portant self.. .
It was too bad that the game last Saturday 
had to be called off and all because they could not 
remove the tarpaulins. Well, anyhow I think that 
all the members of the band deserve mention hon
orable for the fantastic performances that they gave 
during the season . . .
And so for the present time I will just say 
hasta la vista and buena suerte . . .
they had never seen them. Tech opens its inter
collegiate basketball season on December 1 against 
Youngstown in the Pitt gym. Two games each with 
Duquesne, Pitt, Penn State, West Virginia, and 
Westminster should make this a great season.
and books Chi all the latest pro
cesses and transactions; individu
ally, membership will promote 
better chances for a successful ca
reer. The officers of the Metals 
Club, who are Bill Barclay, presi
dent; Richard Fox, secretary; Jim 
Hamer, treasurer; Everett Parker, 
social chairman, and Ken Tarley, 
technical chairman, can be proud 
of the service of their organization 
to its members.
Symphony To Play 
Professor Leichs 
Prelude & Fugue
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra will render the premier 
performance of the third major 
work, written by a Carnegie 
Tech composer-professor, Friday, 
November 25.
Professor Roland Leich of the 
music faculty in Carnegies Col
lege of Fine Arts completed Pre
lude and Fugue for Orchestra 
last year.
The Prelude and Fugue is 
Professor Leichs thiid major 
work. The Chatauqua Symphony 
Concert performed Piece for 
Oboe and Strings in 1953 and, 
in 1954, the Mendelsohn Choir 
performed O Light, Invisible.
Professor Leich, a graduate of 
the Curtis Institute of Music and 
the Eastman School of Music, 
joined the faculty at Carnegie in 
1946.
100th Anniversary
Featured soloist for this Fri
days concert will be the exciting 
young cellist, Zara Nelsova, who 
will play the Dvorak Cello Con
certo in b minor. And, in com
memoration of the 100th anniver
sary of Robert Schumanns death, 
William Steinberg will conduct 
that composers Symphony No. 2 
in C Major.
Miss Nelsova, making her first 
Pittsburgh appearance with the
Symphony, has impressed and 
amazed critical audiences in the 
principal cities of England, Eur
ope and the North American 
continent with her great artistry 
and magnificent technical equip
ment.
Her New York debut was made 
at Town Hall in 1943 when 
critics hailed her as a cellist of 
phenomenal attainments, mature 
artistry and finished style. She 
plays a magnificent Guamarius 
cello, dated 1735.
Concert-goers are reminded 
that this concert will be given 
on Friday only, with no repeat 
performance.
Pulitzer Winner, 
Wilders Our Town, 
Now At Playhouse
The gi*eat American play Our 
Town by Thornton Wilder open
ed a three-week run at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse November 17.
A Pulitzer Prize Winner which 
ran on Broadway for almost a 
year, Our Town is playing in 
the Craft Ave. Theater, while in 
the other Playhouse theater, the 
Hamlet St. Theater, the suspense 
thriller, Dial M For Murder 
continues through November 26.
The action of Our Town 
takes place in Grovers Corners, 
N.H. in the years 1901-1913. Life 
was different then and there was 
excitement in having an ice cream 
soda at the drug store or attending
choir practice with Mrs. Gibbs and 
Mrs. Soames. Life was quiet, and 
its pleasures were simple, and 
people seemed to have more time 
to enjoy both. Our Town is 
about the normal, natural, ordin
ary happenings in the lives of 
the folks in Grovers Comers  
growing up. marrying, living, and 
dying.
Matthews to Narrate
Charles Matthews plays the 
Stage Manager who serves as the 
plays narrator in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse production of Our 
Town which is being directed 
by Frederick Burleigh. Other 
featured performers include Marlou Jahn, Borden Anderson, Herb 
Young, Ruth Nirella, Mariam 
Lewis, Elizabeth Gearinger, Alma i Lund, and John Reed.
Our Town has been a suc! cessful stage play, movie, and 
most recently a musical TV proI duction. Its author, Thornton 
I Wilder, has also been recognized 
! as one of the great American 
; writers and in addition to this 
i play won Pulitzer Prizes for The 
! Skin of Our Teeth and The 
| Bridge of San Lius Rey.
KortoKKhtor AmKeAKh
Every Tuesday at 12:30 
E. H. 1112 
All Students and Faculty 
Welcome
SPONSORED BY 
American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers and Society of Auto
motive Engineers in Conjunc
tion with AIEE & AICHE
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: 
WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAR YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
MU 3-OS42 or \V l-*iOO
ATTENTION!!:STUDENTS
Immediate confirmation of airline reservations to New 
YorkDecember 21returning January 3now 
available for the CHRISTMAS holiday.
Round Trip $35.20 **)
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
MOO Forbes St.. Pittsburgh 17, Pa. (Squirrel Hill) JA 1 
No Service Charge Free Ticket Delivery
The Bureau of Measurement 
I and Guidance gives professional 
; assistance to individual students 
on remedial reading, efficient 
1 study habits, effective use of time, 
I overcoming personal handicaps, 
i vocational orientation, and other 
problems that affect the students 
' adjustment to college life.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 22, 1955
Editorial
A New Look 
For Council?
Existent on campus (but only barely) is 
an organization representative of, and with 
legislative powers over, the student body.
Yet today, as has been the case for several 
years, its name elicits not a sharp look of 
respect but a shrug of the shoulders.
From the investigation of other student 
governments and of the Carnegie Tech Stu
dent Council constitution, it would appear 
that a great deal of responsibility lies in the 
hands of such an organization. Aside from 
the control of all-school functions, Student 
Council has power over the finances of 
many leading campus organization, and has 
punitive responsibility on a norganizational 
level.
Beyond these and other powers already 
provided for in the constitution, this assumedly 
supreme of student organizations should have 
greater responsibility for investigating and ef
fecting reforms in the curricular and extra
curricular realms of activity. It should be the 
link between the administration and the student 
body, as well as the means for bringing about 
unity among the colleges themselves. And it 
should be the creator, the initiator, of new campus activities.
Yet if Student Council already has a majority of the 
important powers (and strength enough to obtain additional 
ones), why is it held in so little esteem? Apparently the 
organization is not strong, or the student body is just plain 
disinterested. Even on Techs campus it doesnt seem likely 
that a truly powerful organization should have such an in
sipid reputationits not even effective enough to have 
enemies. Boiling the problem down, the residue seems to 
be the members of council themselves, or rather the types 
of members, as this infirmity goes back before the times of 
the present members.
As it stands now, Councils main purpose seems to be merely 
to hold on, to do the administrative work essential to organiza
tional activities. Before it ean exert its authority, presently not 
respected, Student Council must prove its capabilities. Without 
effective leadership within the organization, this is virtually im
possible.
Presently almost two-thirds of the members are elected 
democratically (with something less than 20 students vot
ing from some of the colleges), the others being appointed 
from important student organizations including the Dorm 
Councils, CFP, Panhel, and the activities honoraries. Need
less to say, real campus leaders (or BMOCs, if you wish) are 
not likely to be found on Council.
Obviously, then, Student Council, a presently stagnant body, 
is in great need of revitalization. Very possibly a strong and 
efficient government could be derived from the present set-up 
if responsible people were to work on it. That, however, would 
be the long, hard way. Even if the reform were successful, 
there would be no way to guarantee continued effectiveness with 
the present system.
The thing to do is to start from scratch, possibly picking 
out a few of the best parts of the old constitution. With a fresh 
start and enthusiastic, responsible people behind it, a student 
governing body might become very active on the potentially in
terested Carnegie Tech campus.
While this could be just another editorial about an ageold problem, it seems that this year there are people who 
think there is a something to be done. Already ODK and 
Mortar Board are preparing a proposal for a new student 
government. This might mean a three-body government, it 
will probably mean a new system of representation, and it 
most definitely will mean fuller powers and duties, includ
ing some of these presently assumed by the activities hon
oraries, as Spring Carnival, Homecoming, and other major 
all-school events. This does not necessarily mean that, come
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street. Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
MUseum 1-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9846, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8851. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology. Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ..............................................................................................................Robert Russell
Botinfsi Manager ..................................................................................................................Vic Shiry
Newi Editor  ............ .......... ............... ...........................Marjo King
*(wru Editor.......................................................................................................................Tom Wright
Copy Editor ........................ .................................. ............................................... Richard Fox
Frainres Editor...........................................................................................................Stephanie Mackay
Entered as second class matter on Octooer 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh. Pa. under act of March 3. 1879. Accepted for mailing at special 
rate: of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc. College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.14 
D*r year.
spring, Tech will have a powerful new Stu
dent Council, but it does mean that at least 
someone is trying. S.A.M.
Letters
Scot Strikes Back
Editor, the Tartan:
About that review you printed last week! It 
wasnt, by definition, a proper review at all. Your 
reviewer is welcome to say what he pleases, nasty 
or nice, about our product. He is not welcome to 
impute to us policies which are not ours, tear 
those policies down, and then set up some new 
rules for us to follow. Setting policy is the job of 
the editors, not the privilege of one Bob Jack.
He didnt make a single concrete criticism. He 
criticized us for lateness, haziness, going over his 
head, and failing to gratify his intelligence. These 
points cannot be refuted, they can only be sym
pathized with.
To set the record straight, our policy is to 
publish a magazine that will be entertaining and 
of general interest to this campus. Getting prac
tical, we feel theres more to entertaining than just 
being funny ha-ha, and that there are more sub
jects of general interest than such stand-by Scot 
topics as Skibo and Homecoming. There are too 
many different colors of horses at Carnegie Tech 
for any one thing to possibly please all the people 
all the time. Selection of subject matter as well as 
material is a tough problem, but wed rather take 
some risks than water everything down to the 
point where it is of real interest to nobody.
Some of the risks in the last issue were safer 
than A.T.&T. Margaret LeClaire, head of MMCCs 
general studies department, wrote us a lively and 
penetrating analysis of the script of The Cocktail 
Party; Scotch n Soda sketched its future plans, 
and told what personnel it needs. Is anyone in
terested? Tom Lehrer (hes a songwriter with a 
is foistering a new style on the student body, we 
collegiate slant) dug up a picture for us. If this 
say yes, it is a fair thing to do.
Jokes, incidentally, arent designed to gratify 
the intelligence. That isnt the |>oint of a joke, and 
jokes arent the point of the Scot. They are filler 
material, and are clipped and circulated among all 
campus magazines in regular rotation, partly to 
fill up nooks and crannies, and partly because they 
are expected. In fact, you can expect the same 
ones every few years or so, like Haleys comet. 
Theyre in the public domain; we dont write any 
of them, and were pleased to think its just as 
silly to judge the Scot by its jokes as it is to 
judge the Tartan by Max Shulman.
Please dont forget, among all these pure mo
tives and sweeping statements, that the Scots 
primary purpose is to certain peoplethe same 
people who read the Tartan. But we prefer todo 
it with our own material. When we quit using 
local talent, our readers might just as well start 
buying their magazines at the drugstore.
By the way, we couldnt help noticing that Mr. 
Jack didnt mention a single feature that was over 
one page long. We suspect he skipped through the 
issue in a minute and a half, just to see what he 
could find to support his pie-fabricated opinions 
about it. How about some tar, feathers, and reme
dial reading for that boy?
Carolyn Copp 
Editor-in-Chief, the Scot
Inquiring Reporter
Social Life At Tech
By Sallie Day and A1 Federowicz
Although we come to college for an education, 
the social life should not be neglected by the col
lege. These four years prepare us to meet the 
outside world. In this world social life plays 
an important part. With this fact in mind, the 
TARTAN asked students if they are receiving 
what they wanted from Tech socially.
Elizabeth Neumann, Sophomore Home EcThe 
social life on Carnegie Techs campus does not, in 
my opinion, have enough diversification. Fraternity 
parties, week after week, without any variation 
can become quite dull. I think there should be 
more all-campus functions which would be of in 
terest to the majority of the student body and 
would develop more school spirit. There should also 
be closer relations between the Greeks and the 
independents who live on campus and those who 
commute.
Sally Lynn, Junior Home EeYes, I think that 
I am receiving what I want from Carnegie Tech 
socially. With the variety of extra-curricular ac
tivities, such as professional and social organiza
tions, clubs, and religious groups, I am able to 
find people who have interests similar to mine.
Chuck Boerner, Junior PrintingThe social life 
on this campus is good, but it needs improving. 
There is not enough social activity other than that 
provided by fraternities and sororities; therefore, 
there is not much for independents to do. All
school functions should be made more interesting 
in order to get a greater attendance. For instance, 
pep ralliesin most colleges, these turn out to be a 
big affair. Also, I dont think there are enough 
Interesting activities for students. More things 
should be planned so that more people could par
ticipate.
Vic Oburg, Senior Mech EPreparing for so
cial life after graduation is more important than 
our present college social life. In school our time 
cannot be afforded too greatly toward social life 
since an education should be our main reason for 
being at Tech. Tech recognizes the need for a 
well-rounded social life both in school extra-cur
ricular activities and in fraternities and sororities. 
Everyone here definitely has the opportunity to 
take advantage of the social life to help prepare 
them for a successful life after graduation.
Dick Koppel, Sophomore PrintingAs for my
self, I believe that Techs social life is centered in 
the fraternities. There is little social life available 
to the independent. My only complaint is that 
Sunday morning consistently follows Saturday 
night.
H. W. Obman, Junior EEI believe that the 
type of social functions here at Tech are varied 
enough to rate anyones approvement. However, 
I dont think that students living in town receive 
all the benefits from campus activities. It would 
be a good idea to hold more functions with the 
object of attracting the off-campus students into 
the swing of things.
Ginny Tennant, Freshman MusicHaving trans
ferred from a small girls school, 1 find Techs social 
life completely different and somewhat of a chal
lenge. There are numerous activitiesalways a 
party, a lecture, concert, or play to occupy your 
time. I find myself rushing madly about trying 
to finish studies in time to arrive at a social func
tion, and never quite succeeding. Yes, I think the 
social activities are available at Tech, but it re
quires a master mathematician to stretch the hours 
in a day.
Dot Schmidt, Junior Chem E  Often dates 
tend to become lopsided and fraternity parties 
routine. But here I am able not only to partici
pate in the social functions on campus, but also 
in Pittsburgh. I often find that in order to be 
active, I have to neglect my studies. I feel that 
there is enough to do sociallyit is only a matter 
of having time.
WRCT This Week
Tuesday, Nov. 225:00 p.m.The Best on Wax. 
Popular music with Myrna Edelson.
Wednesday, Nov. 237:30 p.m.Musical Mo
ments. Semi-classical music designed for perfect 
relaxation.
Monday, Nov. 2811:05 p.rh.Lucky Strike 
brings to you Night Train with music in many 
moods.
Tuesday, Nov. 298:00 p.m.Album of Favor
ites.
Wednesday, Nov. 309:00 p.m.Music of the 
Masters. A two hour program of classical music.
Thursday, Dec. 18:00 p.m.The Mel Hayden 
Ensemble. Modern music recorded by Tech stu
dents.
Friday, Dec. 211:05 p.m.T GIF Club. Blake 
Berning presents anything but hillbilly music.
Because the staff of WRCT deserves a holiday, 
the station will not be on the air during the 
Thanksgiving recess.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 252, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Campus Headquarters lor Arrow Products
LEONARD'S MEN'S SHOP
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. - Oakland
Organized Labor Throws A 
Key Block At Last Game
Big Last Football 
Game Postponed
The Tartans of Carnegie Tech 
had to postpone their final and 
perhaps most important game 
against Westminister as a blanket 
of snow. covered the city of 
Pittsburgh. With the class B title 
at stake, everyone here at Tech 
was sure that there would be 
nothing that would stop this all 
important game. Eaiiy reports 
from Athletic Director Cratsley 
confirmed the belief that the 
game must go on. However all 
Techs plans were thwarted by 
the local society for the preven
tion of injury to snowed upon 
tarpaulins, who would not permit 
the Tech students to help the 
Forbes Field ground keepers lift 
the tarp before the game.
Westminster had been inform
ed that the game was still on, 
and in good faith the team piled 
on the bus and prepared for the
Techs senior footballers who complete their stay this year in
clude from left to right: Don Hrosik, Bud Karcher, Marsh Brown, 
Frank Wengrzyn, Roy DeVries, Bob Butler, and Leo Bryant.
trip. However, in the mean time, 
Wie master tarpaulin lifter of 
Fbrbes Field had informed Mr. 
Cratsley that they were unable to 
lift the cover with their meager 
force of 10 men. An emergency 
appeal went out tq the organizaTARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST
Week of November 26, 1955
Team
Navy 
Auburn 
Miami, O. 
Colorado 
Georgia Tech 
Holy Cross 
Mississippi State 
Virginia U 
Vanderbilt 
T.C.U.
Rice 
Wichita 
Notre Dame 
V.M.I.
Cornell
Score Team
Army
........... Alabama
........... Cincinnati
........... Colorado A&M
........... Georgia
...... Boston College
........... Mississippi
........... South Carolina
........... Tennessee
........... So. Methodist
........... Baylor
........... Tulsa
........... So. California
........... Virginia Tech
........... Pennsylvania
Score
NAME.......................................................DEPT.CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS
A 1950 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTANS weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
day's games.
Contest Rules
1. Only C1T students will be eligible to compete.
2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score 
f the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case 
f ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight 
Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub
mitted by a student, he or she will be disqualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be 
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each weeks contest will receive a 1956 Thistle subscription, re
deemable at the time of publication.
tions of Tech and within a mat
ter of minutes, a volunteer force 
of 200 men was ready and wait
ing for the word. The word never 
came, for when the local was 
confronted with the information 
that operation Lift was ready to 
swing into action, they immedi
ately switched their signals and 
informed Tech that the school 
would have to pay the union a 
days wages for every man that 
came down to work.
Contest Winner
The winner of this weeks foot
ball contest is James Mandel, 
senior civil engineer. Jim is a re
peat winner from last years con
test and it looks like he has it 
figured out how he can keep 
from buying a Thistle every year 
by just winning the Tartan Con
test.
IM Roundup
Volleyball 
By Don McClelland
After a week of play, the volley
ball leagues are beginning to shape 
up with most of the pre-season 
favorites emerging on top of their 
respective leagues.
A notable exception was the PK 
B team, a group which had been 
discounted in the early predic
tions. Their squad downed the fa
vored SNs and TXs and showed 
a great deal of spirit. They prom
ise to present a threat to the fa
vored ATO A team in the Skibo 
league race. In other games ATO 
A topped both SN and BSR, the 
Obelisks beat TX, and SN bouned 
back to beat BSR.
KS A is leading over the Tar
tan League on the merits of its 
first week victories over ATO B 
and.SAE B.
In the only other league game 
ATO B topped SAE B.
Kiltie League 
SAE A leads the Kiltie League 
with two wins, one over TDP and 
one over KS AC. The only other 
undefeated teams are the Physics 
Grads and the Okaleys, both hav
ing beat PiKA. In the only other 
game KS AC topped PiKA. 
Plaid League 
PK A is on top with one victry each over Wilmerding AC 
and KS B. The Wilmerding AC 
team bounced back from its lone 
defeat to beat both KS B and DU.
Several teams seem to be lax in 
providing officials for their games. 
The intramural rules state: Each 
team must furnish one official for 
the game preceding or following 
its own; and he shall check out 
the necessary equipment from the 
towel room. It is important that 
everyone comply with the above 
ruling, as efficient completion of 
the remaining schedule depends 
on it.
Standings 
Tartan League
KS AC ............................... 2-0
Pepsi-Cola Metropolitan Bottling Ce., Pittsburgh If Pa.
ATO B ............................1-1
SAE B ..............................0-2
0-0
0-0
Kiltie League
SAE A ............................?.-0
1-0
-0
KS AC ............................1-1
TDP ................................0-1
PKA .......................................0-3
Skibo League
PK B ................................2_0
ATO A ............................?,_0
1-0
SN...........................................1-2
TX .........................................0-2
BSR .......................................o-2
Plaid League
PK A ................................o-0
Wilmerding AC ...........o-0
<1-1
KS B .................................0_?
II-0
Bridge
After completing one week of 
play, two teams have shown their 
power and look like the teams to 
beat. PKA A and TDP each 
swamped their opponents last 
week. PKA A won 13 hands 
and lost three to SAE, and TDP 
won 12 hands, lost three, and tied 
one with DU. In other games ATO 
beat BSR, the Obelisks topped 
PKA B, and Citcom won over 
ATO.
Water Polo
For those interested in intra
mural water polo, fntries are due 
November 21; play begins Novem
ber 28.
Table Tennis
To date the only table tennis 
match recorded is a KS win over 
DTD B. The table tennis sched
ules and managers phone num
bers can be picked up in ^he intra
mural office.
Wrestling
All students who are interested 
in competing in intramural wrest[Continued on page 81
Married Students
with
micator nhiv,K.a
you may qualify 
for an apartmentRENTALS AS LOW AS 
$30 per month
Range, Refrigerator and 
Utilities Included 
Phone MISS JOHNSON 
EXpress 1-1076
Christmas have you
shoe grooming is simple as ABC!"
It's apparent, even to a man who has to cram for Phizz Ed. that this City Club shoe Is the 
right choice for the Sunday date, faculty teas, 
and other "clothes make the man" occasions,
And the $12.95 price tag means that this Isnt 
a "clothes break the man" occasion.
FREE pin-up of Kim Novakl Ask your City 
Club Dealer, or write Dept. CN9, Peters, 
Division of International Shoe Company, St.
Louis 3, Mo.
CHyflufr
ky Pt*r> WK d'S'inctlv* shots (01 m*n
>8 93 to >17.98 
as advertised In &qu foe
-ARROW-first in fashion
SHIRTS  TIIS ? SPORTSWEAR
up a tree?
Keep your vacation free for funshop 
at your Arrow dealers beforehand! 
Cover yourself and the men on your list 
with sure-bets like the Arrow 
button-down, shown. $3.95. Or tht 
new all-nylon Frost Fighter 
jacketnylon-fleece-lined and light as ft 
snowflake! $19.95. Count yourself 
in on one, too!

---------------------------------------------------

Have You Made A Reservation?
on the
ahow Aour!
Better hurry 
60% full already 
DEADLINE DEC. 3
(unless capacity 
is reached sooner)
Leaving Jan. 24th 
for FOUR BIG DAYS 
IN NEW YORK
Orchestra seats for
 nipe Dream
 oo Aime For aergeants
 iklahoma
Mezzanine seats for
 Diary of enne Frank
 matful of hain
 Damn Yankees
Plus tickets for Radio and 
T.V. Productions 
Backstage tour of N.Y.s 
Biggest Hit Show!
Travel in Deluxe Grey
hound bus direct from 
C.I.T. to New York.
A private room and 
bath at the Hotel Times 
Scfuare.
All thisl ickets, hotel, 
bus. Complete for 
$62.50
EXCLUSIVE FOR ALL C.I.T.
Both men and women students
See DOUGLAS CRAMER, 
332-E A dm. Hall
Call HAzel 1-9621, or write 
SHOW TOUR, Box 398, 
C.I.T.
Pagre 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 22, 1955
Top (L to R) B. Bryant, Harder, 
L. Bryant, Ottervik; Bottom (L 
to R) Whitney, Coach Carman, 
Wittman.
Techs Winning Runners
By Uhi
For many years, Carnegie Tech has been more than formidable 
in this sport. Eight seasons running have found the harriers of the
Plaid in the money with six times in a row as a win, place, or show
in the big Tri-State Meet held at Slippery Rock. The distance
varies from 3 to 5 miles over coun-* ~
try roads, golf courses, hills, dales, 
and mountain trails.
Since the great Guy Halferty 
stepped down three seasons ago 
due to ill health, coach Bob Car
man, a product of the citys high 
schools and Guy Halfertys finest 
protege, has successfully carried 
on the tradition of a fine winning
squad. Coach Carman is an excel
lent runner himself, being con
sidered by local experts as a fine 
prospect for the Olympic team 
which will go to Melbourne, Aus
tralia in 1956.
The standouts for Carnegie this 
year number four, with all the 
squad returning next year. Bill 
and Larry Bryant, twin jets from 
Beaver Valley, led the squad to 
its impressive 5-1 record. Both 
these lads are juniors and promise 
to become a pair of Techs best 
harriers. The second half of the 
quartet contains tWo freshman 
engineers. Bill Wittman boasts 
Central Catholic as his training
ground, while Eric Otternik romp
ed over the hills of Massachusetts 
for his high school experience. 
Both have been steadily improv
ing, so that prospects for next year 
look good.
The balance of the team con
sisted of two more Pittsburgh boys, 
Ray Whitney and Tom Harder 
from nearby Swissvale. Neither of 
these men had run in high school 
and came out for the sport just to 
get in shape. However, they de
veloped into good prospects and 
are being counted on heavily for 
next season.
The Tartans, while striving hard 
for perfection as a running unit, 
also perceive the world about 
them, and so elected as honorary 
captain and Miss Cross-Country, 
a junior home ec from the North 
Side, Mrs. Lynn Carman. They 
still work out, though, in prep
aration for the big Senior AAU 
meet coming up November 26 over 
the Schenley Park course.
This years offensive All-Star team consists of: (from left to 
right)LineMihm, DTD; Pasierb, KS; Roy, ATO; and Backficld 
Fedor, SAE; Pascarella, KS; and Laughery, DTD.
Whats doing
at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft
Carrying forward a great tradition of American 
leadership in aviation, a team of four world-famous 
organizations has ushered in a new era in commercial 
transportation. Between December 1958 and January 
1961, Pan American World Airways, who pioneered 
trans-oceanic air travel with Pratt & Whitney Aircraft 
piston engines, will put into passenger service twenty 
Boeing 707 and twenty-five Douglas DC-8 jet trans
ports. This fleet of airliners will be powered by twinr 
spool axial-flow jet engines, designed and developed by 
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft.
Behind this significant achievement lie countless en
gineering man-hours. The development of a jet-turbine 
powerplant with more than 10,000 pounds of thrust, 
entailed far more than performance on paper. By the 
time the engine was proved experimentally in 1950, 
Pratt & Whitney Aircraft engineers had coped with 
some of the most complex problems of present-day en
gineering. Just how successfully they solved them is 
well evidenced by the widespread use of the J-57 turbo
jet in todays military aircraft for both intercontinental 
and supersonic flight.
Boeing 707 Stratoliner
has already established a trans
continental round-trip record. 
Powered by four P&WA J-57 
engines, it flew from Seattle to 
Washington, D. C. and back, in 8 
hours and 6 minutes  an 
average speed of 581 mph.
Douglas DC-8 Clipper is the
latest in a long line of famous 
transports. Cruising at 575 mph., 
30,000 feet above the earth, it will 
set new standards in speed and 
comfort, along with the Boeing 
Stratoliner. Travelling 9V2 miles per 
minute, these planes will span the 
Atlantic in less than 7 hours.
Worlds foremost 
designer and builder 
of aircraft engines
Pratt E Whitney Aircraft J-57 Turbojet 
is one of two versions of the jet 
engines for the Boeing 707 and the 
Douglas DC-8. The most powerful 
production aircraft engine in the 
world, it already powers Americas 
nine most important types of mili
tary airplanes.
PRATT & WHITNEY AIRCRAFT
DIVISION OF UNITED AIRCRAFT CORPORATION 
EAST HARTFORD 8. CONNECTICUT
World Travel 
in the Jet Age
Some recent engineering graduates are today workin_ 
on careful analytical studies of the J-57 to provide 
commercial airline operators with data that will in* 
sure maximum performance with operating econom*'1 
ies and rugged dependability.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 22, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage 7
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .............................................................................................. Dolores Neff
Reporters ........ John Van Holt, Jr., Matt Bertovich, Albert Duzy,
Emily Muhic, Chuck Labee
Birthday Corner
%
Super Snooper
Saturday Evening, November 12, members of PIFCSO were 
engaged in a gay and spirited evening of bowling at the Strand 
Alleys in Oakland. To say that this affair was successful is an 
understatement. To us an old Hollywood term, it was Colossal!
Somehow even this word does*--------------------------------------------------------
not completely convey a most en
joyable evening by all those in 
attendance.
Evening School Newman Club, 
as usual, was well represented 
among other students from CIT 
day school, Pitt, Duquesne, Mt.
| Mercy, and P.C.W. (Chatham 
College). Among those rolling 
gutter-balls, strikes, and spares 
were: Mike Antonelli, Edna Thorwart, Chuck Labee, Ed Daly, Bill 
Bond, Walt Bachmayer, Dolores 
Neff, Joe Morgan, Joan Mack,
John Van Holt, and many others.
As we adjourned to the Greeks, 
one question was in all of our 
mindsWhen is the next bowl
ing party going to be?
* A lawsuit is a cop in 
uniform!
As the late Will Rogers used 
to say, All I know is what I 
read in the papers. However, he 
just didnt know the score, 
meaning, of course, that he never 
was a student at CIT. On Page 
No. 101 of the Evening School 
Handbook, the Thanksgiving Re
cess extends through Monday,
* November 28, with classes resum
ing on the following day. How
ever, on page 112 of the CIT 
Bulletin on College of Fine Arts, 
classes are scheduled to resume 
on Monday, November 28 and the 
latest information is that the 
date noted on the Bulletin shall
prevail.
Situation normal, all fouled up!!
A man is as big as the. 
things that make him mad. 
At a business meeting of Phi 
Gamma Pi members, Sunday, 
November 13, new pledges were 
voted in. On December 11, 
the following girls will pledge 
their loyalty to Phi Gamma Pi: 
Mary Alice Chilleo, Frances Dubich, Doris Rogers, Dorothy Law
man, Sandra Dunn, Evelyn 
Kaney, and Mary Rager.
Intelligence is like a 
river: the deeper it is, the 
less noise it makes.
Msgr. Wm. G. Connare, Direc
tor of the Society of the Propa
gation of the Faith, was the guest 
speaker at the Newman Club 
meeting Sunday, Nov. 13. He 
told of the origin of the Propaga
tion back in Lyons, France, by a 
young factory girl who would 
gather her co-workers about each 
day for a few minutes of pray
er. Msgr. Connare also spoke of 
a new organization, Society of St. 
Peter, the Apostle, whose pri
mary function is the develop
ment of a native clergy in the 
mission lands.
Following the meeting, every
one hustled outside for a wiener 
roast.
Summer: The long season 
of uncomfortable weather
Happy Birthday to:
Anthony Spano Nov. 22
Carl Anderson Nov. 23
Fred Burdett 
Bob Brooker
John Elliott 
Don Burns Nov. 24
Carl Dorsch
Wm. Hague
John McBride
Robert Sedray
Mary F. Rager n
Bruce Keefer Nov. 25
Joe Moskal 
John J. Hughes Nov. 26
James Hawthorne 
Madeline Scarnot 
Joseph Wilks Nov. 27
Robert Mullen Nov. 28
Walter Chinik
We would like to know your 
comments, either for or against, 
whether the above Birthday Cor
ner meets with your approval. 
We are leaving the future of this 
comer entirely up to the student 
body.
Mail your comments or sug
gestions to Plaid Editor, Carnegie 
Tech, P.O. Box 256, Pittsburgh 
13.
between a pleasant week in 
the spring and a pleasant 
week in the fall.
There will be a Communion 
Breakfast sponsored by PIFCSO, 
on Sunday, December 4, 10:00 
Mass at St. Pauls Cathedral. 
Following Mass, breakfast will 
be served in Central Catholics 
cafeteria. Newmaniteskeep this 
date in mind, and we hope to see 
you all there.
In love, one has the need 
to be believed; in friendship, 
to be understood.
The Teacherss Placement 
Service, maintained by the com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, co
operates with the Carnegie Bu
reau of Placements in assisting 
prospective teachers to secure 
positions.
The Plaid Needs You
Unfortunately, your evening school publication, THE PLAID, 
is hampered in its great plans for the future by the fact that 
the staff is wcOally short of hands. With a few more work
ers, we could give a broader coverage of the news and insti
tute some features of an interesting nature. The time re
quired for a reporter is small and decreases further in inverse 
proportion to the number on the staff. An added incentive is 
the fact that Student Council points are awarded for this literary 
effort, and that is more than most TARTAN staff members 
get for their work.
The most crying need is for about 15 reporters and other 
writers, but anyone interested in other phases of journalism, 
including circulation and even copy preparation, would also be 
welcomed. Those wishing to volunteer may express their inter
est by stopping in at the PLAID office in the Union on any Fri
day night between 7:30 and 9:30 p.m., or by simply slipping a 
card into the intraschool mail slot addressed to: PLAID Editor, 
Box 256, Carnegie Tech.
The Designer
The designer bent across his 
board:
Wonderful things in his head were 
stored.
And he said as he rubbed his 
throbbing bean,
How can I make this thing tough 
to machine?
If this part here were only 
straight,
Im sure the things would work 
first rate.
But twould be so easy to turn 
and bore
I never would make the machinist 
sore.
I better put in a right angle there,
Then watch those babies tear their 
hair.
Now Ill put the holes that hold 
the cap
Way down in here where theyre 
hard to tap.
Now this piece wont work, Ill bet 
a buck,
For it cant be held in a shoe or 
chuck.
It cant be drilled and it cant be 
ground:
In fact, the design is exceedingly 
sound.
He looked again and cried, At 
last!
Success is mine, it cant even be 
cast.
Rib Tickler
If more than one mouse is 
mice and more than louse is 
lice, then it must be agreed, ob
viously, that more than one spouse 
is spice!
A bunch of germs were whooping 
it up
In the bronchial saloon;
Two bugs on the end of the lamyx 
Were jazzing a rag time tune. 
While back of the teeth in a solo 
game
Sat dangerous Dan Kerchoo 
And watching the pulse was his 
light of love 
The Lady thats known as Flu.
Errata
The Evening Student Hand
book says that classes will re
sume after the Thanksgiving 
holiday on Tuesday, November
29. This should be Monday, 
November 28.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
 Try Us First 
ieK,eoD mehDWehK
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
ENGIRRS ,NCT PN HNY CTMA LMPOYDCCD'
WINSTON

---------------------------------------------------

^FARLtJ^OJDICK
Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 22, i955
VacationIM Roundup
[Continued jrom page 2| 
Griffith, Rody McDowell, and 
Myron. McCormick. Following the 
performance, a back-stage tour 
will be conducted, including in
troductions to the stars of this 
new comedy success.
Oklahoma 
Fridays matinee will present 
Oklahoma, the years motion 
picture sensation in new Todd 
A-O vision. Shelley Winters will 
highlight Friday evenings sched
uled play entitled Hatful of 
Rain. To complete the evening, 
Students will be given tickets to 
view Steve Allens hit TV show, 
Tonight.
On Saturday afternoon, a back
stage tour will follow Pipe 
Dream, Rodgers and Hammersteins new musical starring 
Helen Traubel.
That evening will be free for 
more sight-seeing of New York 
a perfect ending to a marvel
lously well-planned tour.
Reservations for 36 
Reservations have been made 
for 36 people to participate in 
this tour, but if there is a large 
enough demand, Mr. Cramer will 
make accommodations for 76 
people. The price of $62.50 in
cludes everythingbus fare, ho
tel fee, and ticketsbut it does 
not include the price of meals.
Students should bring a little 
extra for meals and shopping. If 
this January tour is successful, 
Mr. Cramer will repeat it during 
spring vacation. For aside fi'om 
his having conducted similar 
tours before, his main purpose in 
these trips is to revive interest in 
the theater. And, since he is a 
noted New York playwright and 
producer, everyone can expect to 
see the best in entertainment and 
have a marvellous vacation.
[Continued from page 1] 
He has published more than 50 
technical papers, and he is the 
author of two books: Gasoline 
What Everyone Should Know 
About It and Research  the 
Pathfinder of Science and In
dustry.
In a letter to Tau Beta Pi con
cerning his forthcoming address 
here, Dr. Boyd said, One engi
neer in seven is now said to be 
engaged in research and develop[Continued from page 5]
ling sign up in Room 104 of the 
Gym with Mr. Birdy or meet with 
Mr. Armstrong in Thistle Hall at 
4:30 November 28. Practice will 
begin at that time.
Bowling
Entries are due for intramural 
bowling on November 30: play 
begins December 3.
E>UT 
r THAT 
WOULD 
BE. 
ILLEGAL 
L MY
ODel
IS
is,EveryTu
MISSION
ACCOMPLISHED" 
NODOLL,THANK j 
YOU"I'LL f
TAKE WILDROOTj 
CREAM OIL , 
AS MY PRIZE." L 
REMOVES LOOSE 
UGLY DANDRUFF.;
KEEPS HAIR NEAT 
AND NATURAL"- 
WITH WILDROOTJ A 
MAN CAN ATTRACT 
ANY DOLL./-GET
W1LDROOT -------
CREAM-OIU 
CHARLIE ffJ / W/LL-uCh.'- DFLECTMV 
COOrtSE,AMD LAA/PCXV * 
THE RASCAL"
I'LL BASH IN NOUR WHMfr-EX L 
HEAD, AN' WIN A f PEFLAT/NG 
-i PRIZE AT TH' r OMEOFMV 
SAME TIME, | LUMSST~ 
FOSDICK'/I-)
ONLYCKEAM-CXL GROOMS AND 
CONDITIONS HAIR THE NATURAL WAV
Chevrolets got your number among these 19 (count em) new beauties
Morewootl Gardens 
Another Union?
For those of you who are meeting-schedulers and have been 
greatly alrarmed by a disturbing 
rumor around campus, heres an 
explanation of the whole situa
tion:
There have been complaints 
that Morewood Gardens is turn
ing into a Student Union and that 
while a special fund is provided 
for the upkeep of a Union, the 
dorm residents are compelled to 
pay in their fees for additional 
dorm upkeep made necessary by 
the increasing number of meet
ings. Also, if meetings are sched
uled for Morewood, the present 
Union isn't being used and thus 
apparently a new student union 
isnt needed.
For these and other reasons the 
administration is asking that 
Morewood be reserved primarily 
for the dorm girls and their meet
ings. All other meetings should 
be scheduled for the Union, ex
cept when it is filled to capacity, 
in which case the overflow may 
go to Morewood. This does not 
apply to groups who have already 
scheduled a series of regular 
meetings through the year at 
Morewood.
all with Body by Fisher. Whatll it be? A four-door hardtop?
Chevrolets got two new honeys. A Station Wagon, maybe? Chevrolet
offers six, including two new nine-passenger jobs. Convertible?
Sedan? Sport Coupe? Chevrolets got it for youcome see it
Drive with core . . . EVERYWHERE!
Moke December 1 and Every Day SAFE-DRIVING Day
See Your Chevrolet Dealer
