The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 21, April 5, 1983.
Meeting held 
)n tuition
KAREN TYLAK
an Staffwrtr
On Thursday March 15, 1983, students 
t with members of the tuition committee 
the Wherret Room to discuss the 12% 
tion increase proposed for the 1984-85 
ademic year. The discussion was limited 
the committee to a 90 minute session 
uing which the committee answered stu
nts questions regarding the proposed 
crease, particularly its effects on the enrl
ent, quality of the school, and financial
Primary concern among tne students 
re whether the tuition increase would 
prove the standard of education in the 
rious departments, and why students in 
e department were paying, indirecdy, for 
rvices in other departments.
The committee responded to these quesn by saying that each department, dean, 
d faculty sub-group has different goals 
d ideals. The tuition committee tries to 
derstand what these people want to do 
d structures tuition in order to help them 
lieve their goals. While the committee did 
t have answers about any particular 
partment, it maintained that the less 
sources there are in the university, the less 
t gets done.
Students also wanted to know if the yearly 
creases would scare new students away, 
illiam Elliot, from Enrollment Planning, 
ted that I have no evidence that the tuin has any effect on the Admissions Offis ability to attract and enroll students that 
going to enter here in September 1983. 
Walter Cathie, Director of Financial Aid, 
ien asked if the financial aid spent by 
^iU would increase along with tuition, 
d Financial aid will increase substanlly, about 55% in CMU funds, while Fedfunds will basically remain the same. 
Questions were also raised about seeming 
icrepancies between the graphs and figes distributed by the committee. Students 
ed why one sheet listed enrollment at 
51 (3,851 undergraduates and 800 gradu) while the graph depicted enrollment as 
51; why a 2 million research grant from 
estinghouse was not listed; and why one 
ph listed endowment as less than gifts 
d grants, 8.6 and 9.4% of total income 
pectively, while the budget sheet listed 
dowments as $5,971,000 and gifts and 
te as $2,895,000.
The committee explained that the discrencies arose from the fact that the univerbudget is made up of two kinds of continued on page 5
photo by Raj Viswanathan
Members of the tuition committee responded to questions about the university budget and 
the proposed tuition increase.
Gaming planned
Steps leading to war simulated
By ANSEL MOORE
Special for The Tartan
The CMU Peace Alliance will conduct 
Firebreaks: A War/Peace Game, on cam
pus starting Thursday. Firebreaks is a roleplaying game designed to simulate a series 
of international events that could lead to a 
nuclear war. It was created by Ground Zero, 
a nonpartisan organization committed to 
public educaton and involvement in the 
debate on national policy to prevent nuclear 
war.
Participants will be divided into two 
groups representing the Soviet Union and 
United States. Each group will have back
ground material to help them shape 
national perspectives, which they will use to 
decide on courses of action in reaction to 
some crisis or threat.
The game will present scenarios, and the
pring jobs forecast released
teams will act as advisors to their leader in 
making policy decisions. At the end of each 
round, the group leaders will announce and 
explain their decisions.
The intent of the game is to expose partic
ipants to the current problems in foreign 
policy created by a potential nuclear war. 
The exercise also explores the many ways by 
which a nuclear war could start, ranging 
from accidental launch of a missile to the 
escalation of a local conflict.
All interested students and faculty are 
invited to attend the first session at 7 p.m. 
Thursday, April 7, in Porter 126C. No pre
vious experience is necessary for participa
tion in this game. There will be two more 
two-hour sessions on April 14 and 21 to 
continue the game and announce the final 
results. For more information, call 422-7233 
after 7 p.m.
Fibers program 
still offered
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Fibers is on the course schedule for next 
September and fibers instructor Diane 
Samuels contract has been renewed so she 
can teach the fibers program. Thats the 
final word from Art Department Head Dr. 
Orville Winsand and CFA Dean Akram 
Midani.
According to several letters to the editor 
and a Tartan editorial that appeared in the 
March 8 issue, the fibers major was to be 
phased out and Samuels contract not 
renewed next year. Samuels is a Visiting 
Artist and is therefore employed on a year to 
year basis.
There were communication problems 
all along the line, and I dont think that it 
was anyones fault, said Samuels. I think 
what happened was that information got 
disseminated that the administration wasnt 
yet ready to present.
The communication problem is we have 
always had a Student Advisory Committee, 
but this year even though we asked to get 
one going, nothing happened, said Win
sand. Now the students are reorganized and 
are working with us. Their chairman 
attends our faculty meetings. The SAC was 
recently reinstated by a vote of the CFA stu
dent populace. Winsand also said that the 
students will be given the opportunity 
within the next six months to help make 
changes in the program.
The student reaction was marvelous, 
said Samuels. It was interesting for me to 
see how strong a stand the students were 
willing to take and how much work, time, 
and effort they were willing to put into 
something that they felt strongly about 
Thats great. I was really impressed.
The art students interviewed all agreed 
that the editorial was misinformed, but 
thought that it served its purpose, since it 
spurred the debate that resolved the com
munications problem. Sophomore art 
major Carol Speranza said, The students 
who wrote letters were acting on whatever 
inforfnation they could extract from confus
ing and contradicting stories from peers, 
faculty, and administration. SAC was 
formed in response to this lack of communi
cation. There are concerned students in the 
department, and they would like to be 
informed of administrative moves in their 
department.
I believe that the letters and petitions 
were positive actions since they showed the 
faculty and administration that the students
continuad on paga 6
employers expect to hire more during second quarter
Employers nationwide are forecasting a 
Pty improved job situation during the 
ming three months, according to thefind's f the Employment Outlook Survey 
'ducted by Manpower, Inc.
^cording to the quarterly poll of more 
^ 11,175 employers in 348 U.S. cities, a 
'ificant number of firms plan to hire 
ditional workers during the second quar1983 (April, May, June), while the pace 
staff reductions will diminish dramatily.
Nationwide, the 21% of employers plan
ning to increase staff size represents the 
highest level since 1981. For the second quar
ter of 1982,19% had planned staff additions, 
but this was dulled by 13% of the respond
ents who expected staff cutbacks. Compan
ies that will decrease employment fell from 
last years 13% to 8% this year, the lowest level 
since 1980. Also, 69% plan no changes for the 
next three months and 2%are unsure of their 
plans. Last year, 65% planned no changes in 
staff levels and 3% were unsure of their
plans.
Manpower President Mitchell S. Fromstein attributed the survey results to a cau
tious but still very solid rise in business 
confidence. The most dramatic improve
ment in job opportunities is expected to 
occur in those sectors which were hardest hit 
during the recession  construction and 
manufacturing erf durable goods. Jobseekers 
in the troubled Midwest are likely to find a 
much improved job climate with survey fig
ures the best reported for that region erf any
quarter during the past three years.
Major improvements are also visible in 
the finance, insurance and real estate sector, 
and in wholesale and retail trade. Also 
improved, but to a lesser degree than the 
former groups, are manufacturing of non
durable goods, the transportation and pub
lic utilities sector and education. Only the 
services sector, which suffered least from 
recessionary layoffs, shows no increase in 
employment levels from those repealed one 
year ago.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Walter should fill spot in Student Affairs
CMU will soon have a new dean of student make sure that the plans he comes up with are so has a number of pet ideas for improving ljfe I
affairs. Provost Richard Van pom will make a feasible. If they arent, he will soon lose his credibilHowever, it is impossible for one person to<jJ
choice from the four people recommended to him ity and the backing of the student body. Students everything, and he will benefit the students moreu( I
by an advisory committee. Brad Walter is the only and their dean can often be an effective force when he concenntrates on one or two ideas at a time
CMU administrator among the candidates. working together, but independendy both have As a result of this enthusiasm, he often has &.
The position of dean of student affairs is one of trouble accomplishing their goals. drop certain ideas which Would have been feasible I
great responsibility, and the choice should not be It will be difficult for any new dean to fill Earl For example, at the tuition rally last fall he said ^I
made lighdy. The dean must be able to understand Swanks shoes, but Walter will be able to come would fight for the students, but that was thelaJ
the needs, as opposed to the perdeved needs, of the closer than an outsider to CMU will. Walter is a we heard on the subject. Similarly, he was at<
students. He must also be willing to act on these CMU graduate and has been here as an administrapoint going to fight for a student union and I
needs. To do this he must have the support of the tor for almost two years now. He knows the stuagainst the personal computer plan,
student body and the respect of the administration. dents better than a candidate from some other Despite these weaknesses, Walter is motivated to I
To gain the support of the student body, the school might. He has the necessary background in help ^ students. His ideas are sometimes radijl
dean should be available to answer students quessocial services to deal with students problems, and SUGjj as a proposed restructuring of student govern I
tions, listen to their ideas, and be their gateway to efforts such as the expanded freshman orientation ment, and he may be just experimenting with I
the administration. He should be informed of the have met with success. Walter has some creative sometimes, but he seems to have the foundations^
administrations plans so he can pass information ideas for improving the student body, such as the student and administration support. In time his|
on to the students. The dean should be able to student-faculty lunches and his proposed improveweaknesses will improve  he will decide what hel
accurately represent student opinion to the adminments to the campus health services. should do and do it, and he will be able to accj
istration, and to do this he must be willing to seek Walters major weaknesses are his overrately represent the students to the rest of Warner!
out that opinion. enthusiasm and a tendency to not follow things Hall. We feel that Brad Walter is the best Candida J
To please the administration, the dean should through. He is a relatively new administrator, and for position.
Win-a-date-with-Nate winners are chosen
By Nate Solano 12% answered old enough under the [tie between] 1. The Wherrett Room 2. Plaones. Possibilities include:
Here they areMhe final Win-a-date-withquestion of age. to's Retreat East. 1. Outrage because public drunken,
Nate statistics! The contest is over and the 45% of ^ licants m nol or were Describe (in 25 words or less) why you'd only usua|]y tolerated on campus 
winners have been chosen (names to be untraceable want to go out with Nate? [ue between] 1. 2 The old dassic" tuilion outrage
released at a future .fate) Favorite answers to ouesdons were The sheep died. 2. I've never been able to be 3. The kill-the-freshmen-because-i
78% of all applicants had . *1 ' my own man and maybe Nate could be my > ^ H n Wpan tr-ufemale names. Favonte music (groups or genre)? Not ^ mn for me call-Saence-Hall-Wean-Hall outrage.
18% of all applicants had male Hal1 & C>ates' I really wish there were some major issues No issues will go without considemtio
names. Favorite movies? Caligula and Insatiable, on campus to discuss, but with the semester Office hours this week are We
4% erf all applicants withheld their names. Favorite corporation? Max Factor. winding down, people are losing interest frm 4-6 p.m. and Thursday from 7-9 p.r
12% erf female-named applicants were Favorite food? Pepperoni. Thus I put out a plea for students to either ^ phone number is 687-6404.
male. Where would you want to go on this date? renew some old issues or invent some new NEXT WEEK: Why I hate roaches.
Administrators vague about costs, spending
By Orpheus Allison there may be a small minority that makes ment, or what? When all the questions are buys; we should expect the same form i
At the recent tuition committee open our life miserable through the destruction of taken together, I think all the students asked administrative bexiy. Perhaps some of I
meeting, certain items were brought up, schex>l property, these are not the true reprethe same basic quesion. money devoted to the studies conce
among which were questions concerning sentatives of the student body. We respect the committees thoughts conour budget could be spent better provid
what our tuition dollar buys for us. These And, if the member of the administration ceming this tuition forum. What we would us with graphs showing how much
| questions were not answered for previously identified had been listening to like would be for you to tell us exacdy what dollar of tuition buys,
the second year in a row. Then the students, he would have seen the stuthat increase will be buying. Will it be buyOrpheus Allison is a freshman in H&j
at the end of the meeting, the dents were not saying lets refuse to make ing us an improvement in our facluty, classand is a columnist for The Tartan.
Hf budget director made a statethis university number one because we do room space, or laboratory space? Exacdy ----------... -........................
ment to the effect that he felt students did not not wish to pay for the cost of making it what will the increase buy?
care about the university improving itself. number one. The students were saying, This is a reasonable question to ask and  V mfWM lj
That statement is wrong. I believe Yes, there is reason to believe there is a need one that is not at first hearing easily answerstrongly everyone here wants this university for increase, but you must justify it for us. able. However, it is a question that must be Editor in Chief..............................Monica
to be number one. It certainly looks nice on Does the fact we are going to be paying 19% answered if the administration is to justify Managing Editor..................................Gregg
a transcript. All of us care about the facilities increase next fall followed by a 12% increase in our minds the raising of our tuition. The Business Manager........................... Kathy Was
we have to use in our everyday work in the mean we will have new professors, better federal government, in its yearly issuing of News Editor.............................Joanne
classroom, laboratory, and studio. While professors, newer non-computer equipreports, indicates exacdy what our tax dollar ...............
m m rn M M  f t Sports Editor.................................JeffAmericans today have a shoe fetish
Ad Manager  .............................BonnieToj
By Catherine Stroud Vodrcy Thom McAns for that kind of excitement, long enough to let me feel Ive gotten my Typesetting Manager.........................Patti i
Dont ask me why, but I have seen a lot erf She even has them all lit up, and the caption money out of them. Sneakers usually do that Art Director................................Michael Su
articles lately on the subject of shoes. It for the prfioto tells us that each pair cost her for me, and so do leafers. The few dressy Contributing Editors........................Alice Alf<*
seems a lot of people nowadays have shoe an average erf $160. The most Ive ever paid shoes I own are sensible: low, black, and Vince Gu
fetishes. Shows you how bored people can for a pair erf shoes was $40, and that was last kind enough to my feet to wear for extended Louise'
I get doesnt it? Of all the things summer when I was working and had periods of time. Maybe Im old-fashioned. A5SOC* Ent^itor........................................
I to have a fetish for, shoes seems money to bum. All these articles on shoes Or maybe Im just cheap. A*isttnt ..................Ouisjc
to me to be one of the least exdtmade me more aware of what people wear Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore ............... Pauline\
ing. I have about ten pairs erf on their feet, and believe me, I have seen majoring in creative writing/English literaFeatuws rAUn, Monica!
shoes: assorted pairs erf sneakers^ couple erf some strange things around campus in the ture and is a columnist for The Tartan. ssL Sports Editor Ric
dressy shoes, and some loafers. Oh, and way erf footwear. Im partial to low shoes ----------------- ------ -------------------------- Editor......Jean!
some mukluk-type bexxs for those bitter myself, mainly because Im so tall, but I OtXlTllOTl Specia Asst Production Mgr..........................Peter*
Pittsburgh winters. Thats about all youd guess shorter women like to wear heels. Any* Production Staff: Bob Aarhus, Doug Blairneed, right? way, a lot of these high-heeled monstrosities Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the Eissler, Esthar Filderman, Andrew Ghali, '
I saw a prfiotograprfi in a magazine last are just a little too much for me to take, in opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Safier.^  .T r'- r Columns are the opinions of individual authors whoweek of an apartment in New York City, the way of color. flf, uJMaWy ^ ^ Tartan staff but the 0/lini0m flr, --------------------- : _ ; "
where one whole wall was a glass showcase Aside from bright red and green, I have not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. >pvTlg ' Tti ktido'ii .*  i u * i . . . . - . . . . . .. . . ,,, , reserves the right to withhold from public ,for the owners shoes. I just love shoes, also seen some shocking aqua high heels, Letien u> the editor are opinions of individual authors ^ ^ ^ ^ pubIication Atonal 0
this woman gushes in the article. I think and yesterday I saw a girl striding across the who aTf usually members of the linwersity commun^ (4J2) 57g^i j, Business offices: Skiboj
they can be works of art Cut in high-heeled lizard-skin boots. I guess mten^fwt^fcat*uUbes,8n^ar^d (412) 578-2112.24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113.7 , , .... , . .. mclude the wnters address and phone number for ' * . pA \'i
I dont know about you, but I d rather n all depends on your taste, nght? vernation. Names will be withheld upon request. *****
look at a painting or a sculpture than a glass My idea for good shoes is ones that are The Tartan reserves the nght to condense or reject any All rcarrmT **
showcase of shoes. You can go downtown to comfortable, reasonably priced, and last letter. .

---------------------------------------------------

April 5, 1983The TartanPage 3
Chicago mayoral race 
is test of prejudice
By Stuart Shapiro
prior to Representative Harold Washingtons victory in the Chicago Democratic 
mayoral primary, the Chicago mayoral race 
^as merely a curious little spectacle. Its still 
a spectacle, but it sure isnt little 
anymore. And ever since Jane 
Byme finally picked up her mar
bles and went home, its been
downright ugly.
I really thought, just maybe, Chicagoans 
had finally grown up. That thought didnt 
last very long. Perhaps Im rather naive 
about such things, but I really could not 
relieve the fact that Harold Washington is 
jlack would generate such an outpouring of 
rage, anguish, and fear.
I believe it now.
Oh, I figured there would be a modest 
amount of racist sentiment lurking beneath 
the surface. I suppose what shocked me was 
the extent to which it was out in the open 
where the enitre country could view it.
As a result, next Tuesdays election may 
be the most watched municipal election 
ver. Its a local race, but it has a national 
judience. Everyone is waiting to discoeverif 
the white citizens of Chicago are really that 
racist, whether people who have never voted 
;or a Republican in their lives will do so 
low for bigotrys sake.
The trouble is there really are a few rea
wns to vote against Mr. Washington. He 
an hardly lay claim to a halo. A reputation 
or missing important House votes and a 
nviction for tax evasion do not consdtute 
glowing recommendation. Be that as it 
y, Washington does have the support of a 
ot of Democratic heavyweights, including 
alter Mondale and Ted Kennedy. In fact, 
e may have more Democratic support in 
ashington, DC, than he does back at 
ome in Chicago.
Still, Washingtons past provides a large 
litical target. His fomer troubles muddle 
already muddled picture even more, 
y of the more subde and genteel Demo
tic bigots will use the character issue as an 
se to vote for Republican Bernard
Epton without appearing racist. Mean
while, those who are legitimately unim
pressed with Harold Washington the 
candidate, as opposed to Harold Washing
ton the block candidate, will undoubtedly 
find themselves unjusdy accused of being in 
the same leagues as their more Neanderthal 
fellow Democrats.
And what happens if bigotry wins out 
and Chicago elects its first Republican 
mayor in over half a century? Whatever 
happens, its unlikely to be particularly 
pleasant. Chicago blacks will not take 
kindly to what amounts to being disenfran
chised, in effect, if not in fact. Inasmuch as 
black leaders across the country are keeping 
a close eye on the Chicago election, a Demo
cratic defeat would result in a great deal of 
hard thinking about the future of blacks in 
the Democratic Party. At the very least, there 
would be a new commitment to playing 
political hard ball both inside and outside 
the party.
Chicago politics is a sorry sight these 
days. All because Chicagoans dont have 
enough sense to keep race out of the race.
Remembering childhood
Co1
L-EAP
c-mu! oNl step aheadf.
Factory worker influences kids
By Awanti P. Sethi
I was about nine years old.
It was summer and the school was closed.
I, with neighborhood kids, played all the 
time. There wasnt anything else that we 
could do other than playing (our 
parents didnt agree, though), 
or, if there was, we were smart
- enough to find good excuses for 
ourselves.
During one of those evenings, we were 
playing in a litde playground outside my 
house. There were two teams and the aim 
was to hit the members of the opposite team 
with a tennis ball. During the middle of the 
game when we were all fired up, someone 
threw the ball which missed the intended
omputer theft real problem
ive
iton
I can painfully relate to the article Comuter Theft in the March 8th issue. I had 
y computer system on campus for only 
weeks before it fell victim to an attemptheft.
David Stormer, the Iowa State security 
, suggests keeping computers behind 
ked doors, and physically attached to a 
all or table. First of all, the desks that the 
iversity provides for our use do not 
long to us; therefore we do not have the 
ght to damage them by bolting down comlters. However, the computer was kept 
hind not just one but two locked doors,
fficer.
and the innermost of those two was the one 
broken into. Although the system was left 
intact, I came precariously close to losing 
about $5000 worth of equipment.
If the university intends for students in the 
near future to purchase their own personal 
computers, it had better take major steps to 
protect them from theft. As a mathematics 
(computer science track) major, I would 
have derived great benefit from a personal 
computer here on campus, but unfortu
nately it is now back at home, a safe place, 
but collecting dust.
D. Scott Obrosky 
Applied Math/AMS 85
ent money disappears
ton
Two years ago, the fraternity system was 
Id (by the powers-that-be) that part of the
reason for its massive increase in rent the 
next year was some much needed capital 
improvement projects. One of these projects 
was the construction of a cement stairway 
on the hill between the rears of DTD and 
ZBT fraternities.
Alas, TWO (2) YEARS later, the project 
was started. And two days after that, com
pleted. The wonderful cement structure 
promised had decayed to a few old railroad 
ties stuck in the ground.
There goes an old rhyme: Knick-knack, 
paddy-whack, give the dog a bone... Well, 
it seems someone else got it this time.
R. Sean Keegan
and landed among the surrounding shrubs. 
We had lost several balls there. Out resour
ces were quite limited, and none of us had 
the wealth to purchase a ball whenever 
wished. So, after cursing and accusing one 
another in every possible way, the teams 
finally started the hunt. We had to beat the 
encroaching night.
He came while the search was still on. His 
name was Chander. Chander, in his early 
thirties, worked in the nearby factory and 
was going to report on duty that time. My 
father was the works manager of this factory. 
We kids, though not allowed formally, used 
to go inside the factory every now and then. 
We knew quite a few workers. Some were 
considered friendly. These friends would 
bend or weld iron rexls for us, would give us 
little wooden wheels, etc. so that we could 
make things we wanted to. In return, these 
people would enjoy some special privileges 
unavailable to the unfriendly workers. For
Give A Phi O credit 
for election service
Editor
The March 15th Tartan had a picture on 
page five of Students and Dean Cox 
counting the election results. Are you 
unaware of who those students are? They 
are members of A Phi O, and running stu
dent elections is just one of the many services 
they provide for all of us. The photo
graphers name appeared under the picture
 why not give credit to the A Phi O 
members who gave their time? The campus 
is we)efully ignorant of all that A Phi O does.
Marianne Vakiener
Don't fire coach
Editor
I would like to add my voice to the many 
who have decried the firing of Coach Malo
ney. I have been an unabashed admirer erf 
the basketball program that he erffered CMU 
and am of the opinion that the university, 
through its athletic director, has debased 
itself by firing Coach Maloney.
Karolyn Eisenstein 
Assistant Dean 
Mellon College of Science
instance, we wouldnt make faces at them, 
wouldn't call them, their friends or relatives 
by names, or wouldnt shine mirrors at 
them. Chander belonged to the friendly 
class.
We requested Chander to help us in find
ing the lost ball. He agreed. But the matter 
became very complicated when soon we 
noticed a ball in his pocket. That was one of 
our lost balls, we claimed. However, he 
strongly denied it. According to him, he had 
bought the ball for his son, and the son 
would cry if he dielnt get the ball. Then he 
tried to show us the way he cried. He 
dropped *h is head on his left shoulder, then 
on the right and again, on the left, and at the 
same time, made some funny noise. We 
laughed at the imitation. But he had to be 
too smart to convince us otherwise. Finally, 
he gave in. Our suggestion to him was to tell 
his son he had lost the ball somewhere.
Exacdy two evenings later, just as I had 
finished my dinner with the rest of the fam
ily, a security guard came rushing and said 
something to my father. The matter seemed 
to be a rather serious one because father left 
immediately.
Soon I too arrived at the scene. What I saw 
was quite unexpected. Chander was lying 
on ground and a couple of people were 
massaging his chest, arms and legs. As I 
found out later, in order to show off his 
talents to his colleagues, he tried to operate 
an electric grinder and got a severe shock. 
Technically, he wasnt supposed to operate 
any such device.
Minutes later, the company doctor 
arrived. It tex>k him few seconds to give the 
message that practically everybody had 
expected but none had wanted to receive.
Years have passed since then. My family 
has moved to a bigger hoohah. Father has 
become a director erf the fac tory. I am not a 
kid and a tennis ball doesnt fascinate me 
anymore. But I still remember the ball that 
we chilelreri had lost seventeen years ago. I 
still remember Chander imitating his son. I 
wonder, though, when Chander's son 
dropped his head on his little shoulders 
more feelingly-when his father lost the ball, 
or when his father lost himself.
Awanti P. Sethi is a graduate students in 
GSIA and is a columnist for The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
Summer Session
Tentative Undergraduate and Graduate Courses for Summer Sessions
(1 )  First Session: May 1 7  June24, (2)  Second Session: June 27 -Augus
Chemistry09-105Dynar.ics ana Equilibria10 units(i)
09 11 7Organic Chemistry 19 units(i)
09 218Organ' Chemistry 119 units(2)
Civil Engineering12 207Statics9 units(1)
12 208Dynamics9 units(2)
12 211Solid Mechanics9 units(1)
Computer Science15 111introduction to Computing B
(non-Fortran)9 units(1*2)
15 118Introduction to Computing C9 units(1*2)
Mathematics21 112Calculus II (HfiiSS)10 units(1)
21 121Calculus l10 units(1) (2)
21 122Calculus ll10 units(1 ) (2)
21 -259Methods of Applied Math I9 units(1) (2)
21-260Metnods of Applied Math ll9 units(1)(2)
Mechanical Engineering24-121Thermodynamics9 units(1)
24-141Statics and Dynamics12 units(0
Metallurgy and27 322Process Metallurgy12 units0*2)
Materials Science27-332Physical Metallurgy II0 units(1*2)
27,-350Industrial Projects Seminarunits(1*2)
27 390industrial Internship OptionC units(1*2)
27-755-Metallurgical ProblemsVat. units0*2)
27-756-Masters ProjectVar units(1*2)
27-775-ThesisVar. units(1*2)
39-300Analysis. Synthesis ana Evaluation9 units(1&2)
Physics33-121Physics 1: Mechanics (self-paced)10 units(0(2)
33-122Physics ll: Heat Waves ana Optics
(self-poced)10 units(0(2)
33 123Physics IIL Electricity and Magnetism
(self-paced)10 units(2)
33-129Electronics 11C units(1)
Statistics36-101Statistical Concepts with Computer
Applications9 units(0(2)
36-209Probability and Applied Statistics for
Management and Sociai Science19 units(0(2)
36-210Probability and Applied Statistics for
Management and Social Science ll9 units(O (2)
36-211Probability and Applied Statistics for
Physical Science and Engineering i9 units(0(2)
36 212Probability and Applied Statistics for*
Physical Science and Engineering n9 units(0(2)
36-215Probability and Statistics I9 units(0(2)
36-216Probability and Statistics ll9 un.ts(0(2)
36-219Statistical Methods for Data Analysis I9 units(0(2)
36-220Statistical Methods for Data Analysis ll9 units(0(2)
Biomedical Engineering42-500Physiology9 units(2)
Architecture48-200 throughArchitectural Design: Level llVar units(0(2)
48 299
Design51-102Introduction to Design18 units(2)
51-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
51-122Introduction to Photography9 units(l)i2)
Music57-151Harmony6 units(2)
57-181SoNegel6 units(2)
57-228Chamber Music3 units(2)
57-255Counterpoint 1(a)6 units(2)
57-257Orchestration 16 units(2)
57-407Form and Analysis6 units(2)
57-454Jazz Improvisation3 units(2)
57-000Applied Study in voice, piano, organ.
harp, violin, viola. violinceMo. string, bass.
guitar, flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon.
french horn, trumpet, trombone, tut.
compositori6/12 units(2)
57-581Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop3 unitsJuly 18- 
22
9 unitsJuly 18-
Aug 5
Art'Graduate art courses 
are 9-18 units
Administration and 
Management Science
English
HistoryPsychology 
Modern Languages
57-835
57-855
57-867-
57-873-
57-875-
60-117.317.717-
60-224
60-226.336.736-
60-231.331-
60-233.333.733- 
60 235.335.735- 
60 237.337.737- 
60-245
60-345
60-239.349.749-
60-254.354.754-
60-380.780'
60-387.787-
70-101
70-121
70-311
70-332
70-361
70-371
70-381
70-391
70-422
70-471
73 100 
73-250 
73-300
76-100
76-101
76-244
76-265
76-270
76-351.751 *
76-371.77T
79-220
79-235
79-308
79-356
85-101
Workshop In Choral Conducting
Conducting Symposium
Administration and Supervision in 
Music Education 
Principles of Music Education 
Contemporary Problems in 
Music Education
Drawing
Art and the Computer 
Painting
Beginning Screen Printing 
belief
Lithography
Intaglio
Glass
Advanced Glass
Ceramics
Metalcrafts
Contemporary Art
Aspects of Art and Photography
Elements of industrial Administration 
Accounting I
Organizational Behavior I 
Government ana Business 
FounOatlons of Law 
Production I 
Marketing I 
Finance I 
Cost Accounting 
Production M
Principles of Economics 
intermediate Microeconomics 
Intermediate Macroeconimcs
Strategies for Writing 
Fiction and Fact 
Shakespeare 
Survey of Genres Poetry 
Writing for the Professions 
American Fiction and Poetry 
Rhetoric in Social Interaction
Contemporary America 
Sex and Death
Recent American Foreign Policy 
The Second World War
General Psychology
Paris 1983 
Germany. 1983
9 units 
9 units
6 units 
6 units
July 25-Aug 5 
June 27- 
Aug 5
(2)(2)
6 units (2)
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units' 
9 units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
9 units 
9 units 
9 units 
9 units
(2)(2)(2)
May 17- 
June 3 (2)(2)(2)
June 3- 
24(2)(2)(2)(2)
May 17- 
June3
(1) (2) (1) (2) (1)(2) (2)(2)
(1)(2) 
(1)
(1)(2) (2)(2)
(1)0)(l)
(D(2)(D(2)(2)
(1) (2) 
(1) (2) 
(1)(2) 
(1)
(1)(2) (2)
(1)
(1) (2)
9 units (1)
Carnegie-Mellon University, during the summer, 1983, will hold two six-week sessions as follows:
1 st six-week session
May 17 - June 24Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd six-week session 
June 27 - August 5Regular Graduate and Undergraduate 
Courses
Undergraduate Tuition:
$59 per unit  All undergraduates
This is a "tentative" list of courses to be offered. The actual list of courses including class schedules will be announced and published depending upon student response.Application materials and further information will be mailed upon receipt of your inquiry.Please give your tentative reply as soon as possible by completing the attached form and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies Carnegie-Mellon University 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh. PA 15213 
Phone: (412) 578-6620
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name______________________
Mailing Address________________
Present School
am interested in the following courses: 
Course No. Title Session
Please return this form to:
Director, Summer Studies Carnegie-Mellon University 5000 Forbes Avenue Pittsburgh, PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

April 5, 1983The TartanPage 5
4-85 tuition 
jjscussed
tinued from page 1
ome, centralized and decentralized. The 
ntralized income is controlled by the Presi( Richard Cyert, and includes money 
n tuition and endowment, while the 
centralized income is money given for speic areas, such as research, and is not conJled by Cyert.
Only the centralized portion of the budget 
^presented on the sheets; therefore the 
earch money from Westinghouse was not 
ted. Accurate figues about graduate enrl
ent was not represented, since graduate 
dents in GSIA Sc SUPA are not budgeted 
trallyAs for the endowments and gifts and 
njs, most gifts and grants are restricted 
iources, thus decentralized, while endownts are centralized. The figures given 
^ the centralized resources from these 
urces.
Zourt rules for students in registration case
CPS) -- Minnesota students  and perps students nationwide  have gotten a 
nporary reprieve from a federal law that 
mid make all male students prove theyve 
istered for the draft before they could get 
[eral financial aid.
Judge Donald Alsop of the Federal Disct Court of Minnesota last week temporarenjoined the government from enforcing 
: law, which is supposed to become effece on July 1, 1983.
Alsop, ruling in a case brought by the 
innesota Public Interest Research Group 
PIRG) and the Minnesota Civil Liberties
photo by Raj Viswanathan
A student raises a question at the March 15 meeting. A 12% increase has been proposed for 
the 1984-85 school year.
Four trustees 
added to board
Carnegie-Mellon University has 
appointed four business executives to its 
Board of Trustees.
The new trustees, appointed to three-year 
terms at the boards March meeting, are:
 A. William Calder, president and chief 
executive officer of the Joy Manufacturing 
Company, a coal mining and industrial 
equipment company in Pittsburgh.
 Richard K. Means, president and chief 
executive officer of the Oliver Tyrone Cor
poration, a Pittsburgh developer of highrise office buildings.
 David Shapira, president of Giant 
Eagle Markets, the food store chain head
quartered in Pittsburgh.
 Hans W. Lange, vice president and 
group executive for AM F Incorporated of 
Meriden, Conn. Lange, a 1952 graduate of 
Carnegie-Mellon, is president of the CMU 
Alumni Association.
Union on behalf of six local students, said 
Congress may have interfered with court 
duties and required students to incriminate 
diemselves in passing the law. The tempor
ary injunction will last until Alsop makes a 
final ruling on the constitutionality of the 
law. Observers expect the ruling sometime 
this spring.
Other observers arent sure if the injunc
tion applies nationwide or just to Minne
sota aid applicants. We believe (the 
injunction) is in force nationwide, says 
MPIRG attorney James Miller. But that is 
a matter of dispute right now.
AROUND THE WORLD STUDY 
Kyoto, Bali, Singpore, Benares,
Nairobi, Cairo, Jerusalem, London.
Applications are now being accepted for the 1983-84 International Honors 
Program. A unique educational experience, the International Honors Program 
provides selected university students the exceptional opportunity to study around 
the world for a full academic year.
International Honors Program scholars carry a full course load and are accom
panied by a distinguished faculty. The 1983-84 program will explore how the 
societies listed above represent and interpret their cultures to outsiders and to 
themselves.
Participation is open each year to 30 qualified university students. Further 
information may be obtained from Dean Braden Walter, Office of Student Affairs, 
or b contacting the International Honors Program directly.
INTERNA TIONAL HONORS PROGRAM 
Suite 307-96 
1430 Massachusetts Avenue 
Cambridge, MA 02138 
617-491-3120
PREPARE FOR
MCAT-LSAT'GMAT 
SAT DAT *GRE  CPA
Permanent 6enters open days, evenings and weekends.Low hourly cost. Dedicated fulltime staff.Complete TEST-n-TAPZ^facilities for review of class lessons and supplementary materials.Small classes taught by skilled instructors.
Opportunity to make up missed lessons.Voluminous nome-study materials constantly updated by researchers expert in their field. Opportunity to transfer to and continue study at any of our over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP ? NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NOB  NLE
41.
Call Days, Eve1; & WeplK-nd^
Essex House L12 
jflkfl Corners Center, Neg ley & Baur 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
The U.S. Department of Justice, which 
argued the case on behalf of the U.S. Dept, of 
Education and the Selective Service System, 
has no comment on our position right 
now, a spokesman says.
Boston University, the only school in the 
country to say it would voluntarily with
hold both federal and university aid from 
non-registrants, believes the injunctions 
scope is limited. As far as were concerned, 
the temporary injunction only affects Min
nesota, says BU spokesman Bob 
ORourke.
Since the law doesnt formally go into 
effect until the summer, though, students 
dont have to show proof of registration now 
anyway.
Though a number of other schools have 
begun to prepare for enforcing the law 
when it goes into effect, a great many finan
cial aid officers are opposed to the law. They 
complain it forces them to discriminate 
against male aid applicants, that it makes 
them into police agencies, and that it puts 
an added paperwork burden on them.
A few colleges  Earlham College, 
Haverford College, and Swarthmore among 
them  have announced theyll make pri
vate aid available to male students denied 
federal aid because of reasons of conscience.
The University of Minnesota originally 
filed a friend-of-the-court brief in the Min
nesota case, but school officials say they continued on page 6
WE'LL MY YOU TO GET INTO SHAPE THIS SUMMER.
If you have at least 
two years of college left, 
you can spend six weeks at 
our Army ROTC Basic 
Camp this summer and earn 
approximately $600.
And if you qualify, you 
can enter tne ROTC 2- 
Year Program this fall and 
receive up to $ 1,000 a year.
But tne big payoff 
happens on graduation day. 
Thats when you receive 
an officers commission.
So get your body in 
shape (not to mention your 
bank account).
Enroll in Army ROTC. 
For more information, 
contact your Professor of 
Military Science.
ARMY ROTC 
KALLYOUCANBE.
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SMCE 1938661-2772
At CMU call
Captain Michael Schulte
578-2205

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanApril 5, 1983Program stays
Fibers debate settledcontinued from page 1
are concerned enough to actively show it, 
continued Speranza. These actions opened 
up communication between the three 
areas.
According to Winsand, the art depart
ment faculty had considered Samuels for 
teaching classes in the new Foundadons 
program, similar to a core curriculum for art 
majors that should be completed next fall, 
but that it was only a proposal. All of the 
sudden when the paper comes out I see all 
these letters, he said. He went on to say that 
the administration had always planned on 
rehiring Samuels.
Winsand commented that he wasnt con
tacted before the Tartan editorial was pub
lished. Neither the editor nor even one of 
the students who wrote letters even bothered
to check with me to see what the status of 
fibers was, so the thing got blown com
pletely out of proportion.
Midanis only comment on the editorial 
was that he was satisfied. I sent a letter and 
the letter was published in its entirety, said 
Midani. He feels that the fibers issue is not a 
problem.
Samuels thinks that the editorial may 
have caused the fibers issue to be decentral
ized because of the debate that resulted about 
whether or not the editorial was properly 
researched, but she was not sorry it was writ
ten. It was good that it provoked discus
sion, and I appreciate that the person who 
wrote the editorial was willing to take a 
stand that was beneficial to the area, but I 
wish that person had done more research.
European program offered
Camegie-Mellon University is offering 
seven-week summer programs on contem
porary France and Germany for careeroriented college students who seek foreign 
language proficiency and experience in a 
foreign culture.
The French program runs from June 1 to 
July 26. and the German program from 
June 13 to August 5. Both programs offer 
three weeks of intensive language study on 
the CMU campus followed by four weeks of 
study at language institutes in Europe.
During the three weeks on the CamegieMellon campus, participants will have 40 
hours per week of classroom instruction, lab 
work, drills, lectures, films and discussions 
erf contemporary France and Germany.
The four-week European section of the 
programs includes 25 hours per week of 
language instruction, visits to industrial
sites and museums, and day trips to impor
tant cultural areas.
Students may enroll in either section of 
the program independendy. The fee for the 
total program, not including transportation 
to and from Europe, is $1,850.
Further information is available from the 
CMU European Studies Program, (412) 578- 
2881.
Draft ruling
continued from page 5
probably couldnt afford to provide private 
aid to nonregistrants. The suit was filed for 
six Minnesota students. Each of the six 
students receives financial aid currendy, 
needs to continue receiving it, and cant cer
tify that they have complied with the draft 
registration requirements, Miller says.
OnThursuTTda
Libraries expand hours
Hunt Library is now open until midnight on Fridays and Saturdays. The schedule f 
finals week is in the table below.
i#,,,, j muy I
May 25 
May 
May 7 
May 8 
May 9-12 
May 13
Hunt 
Noon2 a.m. 
7:30 a.m.2 a.m. 
7:30 am.Midnight 
9 a m.Midnight 
8 a.m.2 a.m. 
7:30 a.m.2 a.m. 
7:30 a.m.6 p.m.
... ;
EdrS 
10 a.m.2 a.m. 
8 a.m.2 a.m.
8 a.m.Midnight
9 a.m.Midnigh\ 
Noon2 a.m.
8 a.m.2 a.m. 
8 a.m.6 p.m.
* % OPEN * * *Dry Cleaning
MARGARET 
MORRI SON
and Shirt Laundry
M* PLAZA * *OPEN
CO-OP STORE* 
Margaret MorrisonFEATURING:A VARIETY OF DELI MEATS ANDCHEESES OVER 14 TYPES OF SANDWICHES
Plaza
MADE TO ORDER FRESH BAKERY GOODSHours:FRESH FRUITS AND VEGETABLESMonday - Friday 9:00 - 12:001:00-5:00
HOURS:MON. - FRI. 10 - 10:00 SAT. 10 - 6:00For information call 578-8878
SUNDAY 12 - 6:00_jJ

---------------------------------------------------

April 5, 1983The TartanPage 7% *
ollege tenure no longer means job security
$)-After becoming a tenured professor 
years ago, University of Northern 
loiado anthropology professor Kenneth 
felt hed finally made it. TI never went 
kj. as to think tenure was an absolute 
itee of lifetime employment, Ayer 
s gut I always thought it meant that 
long ^ yu by the rules, acted
sibly, and were good at what you do, 
wouldnt be fired out erf the blue. 
yer is just one of 47 UNC faculty 
bers  38 of them tenured  whose 
will end with the current semester, 
e once-unthinkable is happening to 
and perhaps thousands of tenured 
at colleges and universities across 
country. At Temple University, 50 
ured professors wont have jobs come fall 
. Nineteen tenured and tenure-track 
; at Northern Michigan have been 
their walking papers. 
r-seven tenured profs will clean out
 desks this June at the State University 
New York-Brockport, joined by 11 others 
SUNY-Buffalo in September. The Uni
ty of Washington plans to cut 30 
ured faculty positions over the next two 
s. Central Methodist and Louisville are 
cutting 10 tenured positions.
After firing 14 tenured instructors just last 
ng, Sonoma State has served notice that 
more tenured faculty may lose their 
tions.
Those examples plus planned cuts at 
y other schools amount to fundamental 
it in the college teaching profession and 
way colleges are run. Some see it as a 
able but long-overdue cleaning out of 
wood. Others call it an effective assault 
faculty members that will leave America 
th little more than shopping-center uni
ties staffed by clerks.
Until now, tenure was academias version
of job security. It meant that teachers, after 
meeting certain requirements, could count 
on keeping their jobs as long as the school 
stayed open.
Especially since the McCarthy era of the 
early fifties, instructors also viewed tenure as 
the cornerstone of academic freedom, the 
bulwark against being fired by administra
tors or politicians who might disagreee with 
what they were saying or writing. Yet, at a 
startlingly fast rate, the whole system has 
begun to unravel over the last few years as 
once-secure profs find themselves out on the 
street. Administrators say enrollment 
declines, relentless funding cuts and shifts in 
student interest from liberal arts to business 
and high-tech disciplines leave them no 
choice but to pare down their teaching 
corps.
But there are many administrators who 
are doing nothing more than taking advan
tage of this situation to abolish tenure, 
asserts Robert Nielsen of the American Fed
eration of Teachers (AFT). Tenured 
faculty are being fired under a kind of Lets 
do it now while we have an excuse attitude.
While we arent seeing a direct, frontal 
attack on the tenure system, we are seeing a 
significant erosion of tenure at many institu
tions, concurs Matthew Finkin, head of the 
American Association of University Profes
sors (AAUP) Committee on Collective Bar
gaining and Tenure.
For the first time we are seeing largescale termination of tenured faculty not 
because the institutions are in danger of col
lapsing, but because of funding problems 
and short-term fluctuations in enrollment, 
he explains.
UNC fired Ayer and his 46 colleagues 
because of a school policy which stipulates 
how many faculty members we can have 
based on our enrollment, says Bob Heiny,
assistant to the president.
This is the fourth time in five years weve 
had to reduce faculty size, and weve had to 
let some excellent tenured people go. Thats 
whats made it so hard, he elaborated.
Thats a lie, counters Ayer, who says the 
administration is letting tenured professors 
go while keeping non-tenured faculty and 
even hiring new faculty members. And the 
real threat, he adds, is that (the administ 
tion) can now eliminate faculty members for 
any reason under the guise of funding prob
lems or enrollment declines.
Some administrators are more sensitive to 
such arguments. Louisvilles President 
Donald Swain is probably going to rescind 
his proposal to fire 10 tenured professors 
because of concerns how it might impair 
his faculty relations, says Vice President for 
Academic Affairs Mac Arthur Darby.
Still, administrators do have problems 
with the traditional tenure system, particu
larly when it ties their hands in (hanging 
academic emphasis or cutting costs by 
reducing faculty size.
The way tenure has come to function is 
to make the university obligated to keep an 
instructor for a lifetime, says Boston Uni
versity President John Silber, one of the 
most vocal critics of the tenure system.
Tenure, as it exists now, is corrupting 
academics, he argues. Its a temptation to 
abuse, and by forcing us to keep tenured, 
older, less-competent instructors, were driv
ing off younger, more qualified people who 
want to enter the profession.
The fact that a university has deadwood 
in its faculty isnt a fault erf the tenure sys
tem, replies the AFTs Nielsen. Thats 
more a problem erf making bad personnel 
decisions.
Even so, the traditional tenure system 
may not survive the current assault
Were beginning to see a number of me 
ifications to the conventional tenure sys
tem, says Richard Chait, Penn States 
associate provost and a co-author of 
Beyond Traditional Tenure.
Colleges are placing instructors on more 
extended probation periods before granting 
them tenure. Some are requiring more fre
quent evaluations of tenured professors, and 
others are bringing in new peopole outside 
the tenure-track system and giving them 
ongoing, renewable contracts, he notes.
Many universities and colleges can no 
longer afford to bring instructors on staff for 
indefinable periods of time, he says, particu
larly when funding and enrollment levels 
are so unpredictable.
Still, many observers believe that if con
ventional tenure falls by the wayside, it will 
mark the downfall of quality, unmuzzled 
teaching in the nations colleges.
And if they succeed, adds Nielsen, not 
only will it destroy academic freedom and 
run a lot of people out of the profession. But 
what well have left are shopping-center uni
versities, with clerks as faculty.SDC dance
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Tickets are now on sale for the SDC Gate
way Clipper Dance at the Skibo Informa
tion Desk for $3.00/person. On Saturday, 
April 9, buses will leave from the Skibo 
parking lot at 9:00 p.m. The ship, possibly 
the Libby Bell, will depart at 10:15 p.m., and 
return at approximately 1:00 p.m.
Jeff Nagel, Programmin Chair for SDC, 
said that depending on student reaction, 
there may be another dance set for the fall.
Were hoping for a pretty gcxxi send off, 
commented Nagel.
oN loncerts Presents 
The 1983 Spring larnival
loncert
Renaissance
With Special Guest Star 
Pousette-Dart
CMU Gym 
Friday, April 22 
8.-00 PM
Tickets 
$4.00 with CMU ID 
$6.00 all others 
Available at the Skibo Information
Desk
Funded by your Senate Activities Fee
pjpGESSuper Sauings
sm
Dont (Tliss Out!
ERJABRIDGES:
Their Ait, Science, and Evolution
By C S. Whitney 
Over 400 Ulus.
Brilliant survey, largely in pictures and dia
grams, of the principles of bridge design and 
construit ion from the time of the Romans to the 
fist decades of the 20th centural.
Special Only $7.98
Fanny
By Erica Jong. The author of Fear of Flying has 
written a bawdy, witty, wildly funny novel 
about the amorous adventures of a decidedly 
modem young heroine in 18th century London. 
Pub. at $12.%
Only $3.98
/ZMaiV
an
B. HAw CAT CALENDAR CATS 
Kliban fans wont want to miss this hardbound 
collection of every drawing from every Kliban 
Git Calendar, 1977 - 1981.
Pub. at $17.50 
Only $6.98
Amu Kan Indian Ait
By N. Feder. 902 111 us., ind. 60 full color plates. 
Huge, opulent survey of the dynamic an and 
fine craftsmanship of the North American 
Indians.
Orig. Pub. at $60.00
New, complete ed. Only $29.95emu bookstore
IN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

 COUNTRY UVMG BEYOND US MEANS 
IS UVMG ON BORROWED UNIE.
B
ig spending is leading America into big troubleinflation.
Mostly because were all spending money we havent got.
But just as expectations of easy money helped cause the 
problem, acceptance of tighter credit policies can help cure it.
Renewed self-control and a rethinking of some basic attitudes 
will be required of all of us. For example: Would you be willing to 
hold interest rates at high levels to help curb inflation by reducing 
the demand for money? And would you consider saving ahead to 
buy things, rather than borrowing to have them now?
Because we believe inflation is the most pressing national 
issue of our time, were asking you to join us in this citizens 
crusade against it. The ballot at right will make your voice 
heard. Well inform our nations leaders in Washington of 
the results and report to you in a future ad. And if youd like 
more information, well also send you a copy of our free 
booklet Inflation. Lets Self-Control It
Take your stand now. Mail your ballot today. Because inflation 
is shrinking your dollars even while they wait in your pocket to be spent
? I VOTE TO SELFCONTROL INFLATION I recognize and accept my personal responsibility. I will support a sound monetary policy by restricting my personal use of credit.
WMK (IVIVTI
? Please send your free booklet to the above address. Mail to American Council of Life Insurance, Dept. R, 1850 K St. NW, Washington, DC 20006.
l JnflatwnLLeti^ Sejf^^ntrol It.^
THE UFE INSURANCE COMPANIES IN AMERICA
Now
Women's Health Services x
Edi toral.lTj 
ErGvela AiT.veilG
P.hO.lcRoom 212Parkvale Plaza Buildings 3520 Forbes Ave. (cor. Meyran) Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (412) 683-3730
fidlvidl625 Stanwix Street 12th FloorAllegheny Tower Pittsburgh. PA 15222 (412) 562-1914
Free pregnancy testing daily Call for hOLrs and instructions. Confidential counseling available
IS TIME RUN
NING OUT ON 
YOUR GRADES?
Help is on the way at the Coun
seling and Student Develop
ment Centers
TEST TAKING 
WORKSHOPS
Test Taking I:
Preparation for Taking Tests 
Tuesday, April 5,
4:30-5:30, PH 126C 
Test Taking II:
How to Take Exams 
Tuesday, April 12,
4:30-5:30, PH 126C 
Test Taking III:
Dealing with Exam Anxiety 
Tuesday, April 19,
4:30-5:30. PH 126C
FLYING 
THAT COSTS LESS 
THAN DRIVING.
NEW YORK/ NEWARK
OFF PEAK$23/$35PEAK
FROM PITTSBURGH TO:
PRCE
OFF PEAKPEAK
NORFOLK/VIRGINIA BEACH$40$55
SYRACUSE$40$55
BURLINGTON$40$55
HARTFORD/SPRINGFIELD$40$55
WASHINGTON-DULLES INT'L.$40$55
WASHINGTON-NATIONAL$40$55
BALTIMORE$40$55
BUFALO/ NIAGARA FALLS$40$55
BOSTON$40$55
JACKSONVILLE$49$69
SARASOTA$69$99
MELBOURNE$69$99
WEST PALM BEACH$69$99
PEOPLExpss
FLY SMART
PEOPLE EXPRESS AIRLINES FOR RESERVATIONS. PHONE IN PITTSBURGH 
(412) 391-6910, IN WASHINGTON. PA (412) 223-9478, OR CALL YOUR TRAVEL AG
L

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
%
fuller lectures
Reagan seen as avoiding Vietnam
ROBERT MULLER phot by Bi Hamnsd'laS
By DOUG GRUELTartan Staffwriter
Some call Vietnam Americas forgotten 
war. Among these is Robert Muller, Execu
tive Director of the Vietnam Veterans of 
America. In the March 16 lecture that 
proved to be shocking, thought-provoking
and informative, Muller gave his opinion of 
what the Vietnam war was and why it 
happened.
Mullers talk stressed similarities between 
events and attitudes today, and during Viet
nam. He sees these likenesses as a sign that 
America may be risking what he sees as the
ultimate tragedy  another Vietnam.
Forgetfulness seems to be the biggest 
problem we face, according to Muller. Its 
as though we didnt lose over 57,000 Ameri
cans killed and 300,000 wounded, he said. 
Even President Reagan is inconsistent 
with the lost elementary facts when questi
oned about Vietnam, Muller said.
Worse than being inconsistent with facts, 
Reagan has simply avoided the Vietnam vet 
issue. Rather than attending opening 
ceremonies last spring for the only Vietnam 
Memorial Monument in the U.S., Reagan 
attended a memorial service for his wifes 
father, who had died four months earlier, 
Muller said. Reagans actions were taken by 
Muller and other vets present as a ploy to 
avoid facing the Vietnam issue.
The machinery itself that gave us Viet
nam is essentially in place today without 
any changes, said Muller. He cited instan
ces concerning Vietnam in which confused 
statistics and a lack of consensus in govern
mental decision making eventually lost 
human lives. Relating these examples to 
today, Muller presented connections 
between happenings in Vietnam in the late 
sixties and in El Salvador in the early eight
ies. Warning against national amnesia, 
Muller sees El Salvador as the greatest threat 
of involvement in another war the U.S. faces 
today.
Another part of the lecture was the film 
Heroes by John Pilger. Including docu
mentary footage and interviews in 1980 of 
Vietnam vets, the film was direct in its criti
cism of the war and post-war treatment of 
veterans. The films figure of 55,000 casual
ties during Vietnam was not new; however, 
also dted was the figure for suicides among
Vets issue
veterans  55,000.
Mullers experience with harsh treatment 
of vets is firsthand. He came back from Viet
nam having suffered two punctured lungs 
and paralyzation from the waist down, then 
he was sent to Kingsbridge, NY, Veterans 
Administration hospital. In his ward alone, 
eight people commited suicide. Mullers 
ward was also the subject of a Life magazine 
exposee that netted the second largest sales 
of any single issue of that magazine.
Muller gave examples of mistreatment of 
soldiers not only at home, but also while 
fighting. As a Marine, Muller faced the like
lihood that he would end up as one of the
60% of Marines who were casualities. A 
standard procedure was to dangle us out 
there as bait, Muller said, we were treated 
as cannon fodder  an expendable 
commodity.
As more effects of Vietnam on veterans 
come to the surface, among the most contro
versial, and to vets themselves, disturbing 
problems is that of the now-famous Agent 
Orange. Used as a defoliant, the chemical is 
now known to have genetic effects on child
ren of people exposed to the substance, as 
well as causing early hair loss and liver and 
kidney problems. Agent Orange was widely 
used in Vietnam, at concentration far higher 
than safely accepted minimums.
Mullers final message was that a tragedy 
such as Vietnam cannot be allowed to 
happen again. But if it does, he says, the 
decision involved will be very much like that 
in Vietnam. What does a people go to war 
for, and who will make that decision, he 
asked, and most important to you here 
tonight  whos going to fight that war?N. Y. 's St. Pat's parade has political pall
Investment Club posts outstanding returns
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor 
Flanking 5th Avenue and its St. Pattys 
Day green stripe, we all stood in an 
estranged togetherness, brought together by 
a simple wish: to see the time-honored trib
ute to St. Patrick.
Anxious on-lookers  New 
Yorkers, Pittsburghers, Canadi......... ans, native Irishmen  stood
proudly in their street-side niches, watching 
a censored parade through visible breaths. 
Green bathed the Big Apple. Erin Go
Bragh (Ireland Forever) was nationally 
adopted into the English vocabulary today. 
Irish-American lads and lasses waved 
banners and sported buttons they could not 
read, but well-understood the electricity, the 
gaiety. Horses and horns mean a fun day 
away from home.
If only the innocence could have 
remained untouched.
The appointment of Michael Flannery as 
the parades grand marshal upset many 
government notables. Because this man is a 
strong sympathizer to the Irish Republican
Army, dissension arose and the government 
pulled out regular military units.
The Pentagon issued a memo to the four 
branches of the military, citing lack of 
unanimous support behind the parade as 
the reason that "the military departments 
have been advised that it would be inap
propriate to participate in this years 
parade.
New Yorks Senator Daniel Moynihan 
and former Governor Hugh Carey pro
nounced their absences from the tradition. 
The Archdiocese of New York pulled four
Catholic high schools from the pomp and 
circumstance; many more independent 
Catholic schools followed suit.
To top off the entire political dominoes 
game, Terence Cardinal Cooke appeared 
outside St. Patricks Cathedral only after the 
grand marshal had passed, about 45 min
utes later.
A political pall was cast upon the pre
viously shielded tradition. Fortunately, the 
bubbling, wide-eyed children were above 
any conception of the bristling climate that continued on page 12
By LEE SHEPARD
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU Investment Club recendy 
roade an outstanding return on its money. A 
option on Anheuser Busch was pur
chased before spring break at 5% and was 
during the break at 9%, a 55.4% gain in 
Just a week and a half providing a profit 
^ter commissions of $314.96 on an initial 
investment of just $567.50. The news was 
Sported by the investments sponsors 
August Consiglio and John Stark.
On this positive note, several other invest
ments were brought up and approved. Mark 
Rsher presented Fleetwood Enterprises, a 
leading manufacturer of manufactured 
housing and large motor homes. The fore
st for this company and the industry in 
eneral is very good due to the economic 
recvery, lower interest rates, and decreased 
^soline prices. Value Line gives this coma timeliness ranking of 1, the highest 
jinking they give. An order was placed to 
UV 50 shares at $23 per share.
Yirn Gawdiak presented the dubs first
bond, a Chrysler Financial Company 8.75% 
bond that comes due in September, 1984. It 
was decided to put in an order to buy the 
bond at 93 (93 cents on each dollar of face 
value). Although the bond is currendy trad
ing at 96, the expected short-term increase in 
interest rates should lower the bonds price 
to the 93 range. The price of a bond varies 
inversely with the market rate of interest  
increased interest rates lower the price of 
bonds. At 93 the bond will have a yield at 
maturity of 11.68% as opposed to 8.8% if the 
bond was now purchased at 96. Corporate 
bonds are traded in lost of $1000 face value, 
so one bond would cost $930 plus $35 com
missions. Chryslers credit is regarded as 
much less risky now that the company has 
staged a successful turnaround.
A third investment, National Medical 
Enterprises, was presented, but turned 
down. National Medical is an extremely prof
itable company that owns and manages hos
pitals and their future earnings forecasts are 
very positive. However, the concensus was 
that the stock price was too high since it has 
increased threefold in the past year.
pnoco Dy
Clark Rechkemmer from Mellon Bank spoke to the Investment Club on bank products and 
managing portfolios on March 14.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanApril 5, 1983
M.l. T. alumni talk about national security
Shakespeare staged at Pitt
Classical instrumentalists and singers 
with a Renaissance or Elizabethan reper
toire who are interested in performing 
before large audiences this summer should 
contact Ned Read, associate producer of the 
Three Rivers Shakespeare Festival.
In addition to portraiture artists, the Fes
tivals own Good Companions, mimes and 
others will participate in the festivities on 
the Stephen Foster Memorial lawn before 
our performances, says Read, The Festival wants to give talented Pittsburgh musi
cians an opportunity to be seen and heard by 
the thousands who will attend our 
productions.
Now the sixth largest festival of its kind in 
the U.S., the Three Rivers Shakespeare Festi
val will begin its fourth season of Shakes
peare this June at the University of 
Pittsburghs Oakland campus. Interested 
performers should call Mr. Read at (412) 
624-6805.
By GEOF BECKER
Tartan Contributing Editor
On Mondays the Post-Gazette features 
Whats happening around town this week 
and whats ahead in its Daily Magazine 
out that standardized struc
ture March 28 was an announce
ment of the second public 
lecture, sponsored by CMU, on 
national security issues entided 
Command and Control. Speaking on 
behalf of their interests and C2 (C?I means 
command, control, communication and 
intelligence) were Dr. John P. Steinbrunner, 
currendy with the Brookings Institution, 
and Mr. Charles Zraket, of the Mitre 
Corporation.
Both Steinbrunner and Zraket are alumni 
of M.I.T. and have worked at that institu
tion following graduation: Steinbrunner as 
a member of the faculty and Zraket as a 
member of various research groups. Zraket 
graduated from Northwestern University 
with a B.S. in E.E. and received his Masters 
in 1953 from, as mentioned above, M.I.T. 
His current job with Mitre continues the 
M.I.T. connection as that corporation was a 
part of Lincoln Laboratories until 1958 
when it gained a life of its own. Zraket is a 
career man, having risen through the ranks 
at Mitre from Department Head in 1958 to 
Executive Vice President and Trustee since 
1978.
Steinbrunner received a B.A. in psychol
ogy from Stanford in 1963 and a Ph.D. in 
poli-sd from M.I.T. in 1968. By some coin
cidence that is beyond the purpose of this 
review to explicate, three other speakers in 
the National Security: Issues and Choices 
lecture series have had some connection 
with M.I.T., either as teacher or student 
(sometimes both: Steinbrunner), and
another lecturer is a past Director of Defense 
Analysis at Brookings Institution. P^ 0j 
the explanation youre not going to get in 
full is that these institutions, among others 
have spawned what policy makers assisted 
in defining the current United States posj. 
tion on National Security issues.
No doubt this coincidence ties in with 
CMU president Dick Cyerts wish to 
Develop the facts, and the methods of anal, 
ysis so that individuals can think through 
the problems and arrive at positions con
ducive to voting In a rational way. Aver
age journalists, Cyert tells us in the 
introduction to the lecture series, have been 
incapable partners in abetting that funda
mental democratic responsibility.
As we sift through the conflicting reports 
of supposedly concrete facts such as number 
of missiles or Defense Department budget 
allottments vs. actual expenditures, the 
same disturbing question resonates around 
President Reagans visionary descriptions of 
the war against Communist evil the U.S. 
is fated to fight. What is Reagan doing to 
ensure an informed electorate? The same 
question, although cast in a slightly dissonent, more diplomatic tone, plagues Stein
brunner, of Brookings.
While in the middle of a lecture whose 
premise called for a non-threatening parity 
of Command and Control capabilities 
between the Soviet Union and the United 
States, Steinbrunner characterized recent 
several proposals by Reagan as being condu
cive to Soviet insecurity.
For example, Steinbrunner thinks it 
would be an extremely wise thing to ... 
forego Pershing II deployment. He 
believes the Soviets view deployment of 
Pershing, which would threaten Soviet continued on page 20
' 3415 FORBES AVENUE 'W
OAKLAND
i Next to Arbys
f Qi.oono fiai.99n^ ?
plZZ/* A
> 3415 FORBES AVENUE <J.
681-2202 or 681-2203
Applies to Delivery Only
Buy one Extra Large or Large Pizza 
Get 4 large drinks FREE 
Buy one Medium or Small Pizza 
Get 2 large drinks FREE 
Buy one Whole Hoagie 
Get 1 large drink FREE
FREE DELIVERY AFTER 6 P.M.
Visit our Bar & Dining Lounge
ENJOY OUR COCKTAILS
mui
?
0N?C>
Business Hours 
Sundays 2:00 P.M.  2:00 o.M. 
Mon.-Tues.-Wed. 10:00 o.M. 2:00 o.M. 
Thurs.-Fri.-Sat. 10:00 o.M.  3:00 o.M.

---------------------------------------------------

You are cordially invited to
The H&SS Spring Fling
Dinner - Dance
Tickets:
Friday, April 15, 1983 Students - $6.50
7 - 12 p.m. Faculty - $8.50
Carnegie Music Hall Staff - $7.50
On sale at AAC - BH 161 or at 
Skibo Info Desk.
Featuring
George Gee and 
His Make Believe Ballroom Orchestra
Sponsored by the H&SS Deans Office 
and the H&SS Student Advisory Council

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanApril 5, 1983
Health care clinic will have new hours
Allegheny Reproductive Health Center is 
pleased to announce the opening of a Tues
day evening clinic in their facility at 121 
South Highland Avenue. This reproductive 
health care clinic was created to suit the 
needs of working women and men in the 
Pittsburgh area. Coupled with their regular 
Wednesday afternoon clinic, the new even
ing clinic will enable Allegheny Reproduc
tive to offer more quality health care at 
greater convenience to patients.
The Tuesday evening clinic will offer a 
wide array of health care services, including 
yearly exams and testing and treatment for 
all types of sexually transmitted diseases, 
including herpes. Exams for vaginal infec
tion will also be offered, as well as birth 
control care and counseling, pregnancy sizings, and exams for painful periods. 
Patients will be examined by Nancy YanFREE
Tape Recorded Legal or Medical Infarmation
281-4664
dora, a Nurse Practitioner specializing in 
adult care. Ms. Yandora received her degree 
from George Washington University with 
most of her experience being in Pittsburgh 
area hospitals. The Tuesday evening clinic 
is run by Director Marianne Snider and 
Assistant Director Dorothea McCoy. They 
are supported by a professional staff who
All poets welcome 
in annual contest
A $1,000 grand prize will be awarded in 
the Eighth Annual Poetry Competition 
sponsored by World of Poetry, a quarterly 
newsletter for poets.
Poems of all styles and on any subject are 
eligible to compete for the grand prize or for 
99 other cash or merchandise awards, total
ing over $10,000.
Contest Chairman Joseph Mellon says, 
We are encouraging poetic talent of every 
kind, and expect our contest to produce 
exciting discoveries.
Rules and official entry forms are availa
ble from the World of Poetry, 2431 Stockton 
Blvd., Dept. B, Sacramento, CA 95817.
STUDENTS SAVE UP TO 80%!
Reserve your seat NOW for Sept.
Festival Season
' ? Symphony' , Orchestraj
v i 4 ondr Previn, Music Director f
mCelebrate with Us!
6 CONCERTS: $27 
12 CONCERTS: $42 
18 CONCERTS: $54 
24 CONCERTS: $72
Call 392-4821 for a student brochure, or
WATCH FOR SALES TABLES ON CAMPUS
treat all visits in a friendly and confidential 
manner. The costs of the various services is 
reasonable and can be quoted upon request. 
Allegheny Reproductive Health Center is
located in the Highland Building at 121 
South Highland Avenue in East Liberty 
Appointments or information can be 
obtained by calling 661-8811.Politics chill a parade
continued from page 9
attempted to break our spirit. The only cli
mate which may have remotely touched the 
little ones was the sub 40 degree, windy air. 
The raw dampness cut to our skin, numbed 
our noses, and tried to send us home - but to 
no avail.
Natures abuse was tolerable. It was the 
miserable political weather, intentionally 
trying to ruin a spirited salute, which came 
close to besmirching the sanctity of the 
memorial march.
But the innocent excitement, of young 
and of old, could not be squelched. Youngs
ters pointed and pranced as the green
maned horses trotted frivolously up the 
avenue. Tips of dyed green moustaches froze 
slightly on the proud Irish marchers. Scant
ily clad drum majors gripped their batons 
tighdy and led their bands right up the mid
dle of the green striped pavement. They also 
smiled proudly and widely, as did the police 
and firemen, gladly acknowledging many 
IRA sympathizers cheers.
It takes more than chilly politicking to 
destroy this parade. But lets not test the 
peoples will another year.
CAN LIVE WITH
EXPERIENCE PERSONAL DESIGNAt Hairmetric 
salons, you step into 
the center of a design process which tailors its artistry 
to harmonizing your features, chemistry and life style. 
Resulting in a look that's right for you.
Our skilled artisans, trained within our unique educa 
tional system, will confidently weave the strands of
artistic insights, 
scientific technology 
and contemporary trends into a fabric of personal cafe 
for you and your hair. This is the kind of attention you 
desire.
Join us at Hairmetrics for t he look you can live
with.
H3IRMTRIC5FOR HAIR THATS LOOKING GOOD!BODY WAVES  HAIRCUTS  COLOR SERVICE
110 S. Bcuquet Street (Oakland)
Phone: 621-2087
nsACnsAC
gi-MOrvr Uicj y.(r 
1.eoT)v Tilceveilela GvjOela 
Fio ilOj S:7 
iFFro aiic Fio -rl J di-rl u sMoeO 242,x:
H)Gv 1.(r Ti)Mil n.Or
ICELANDAIR IS S11U YOUR BEST VALUE TO EUROPE
------LUXEMBOURG------1
*489
R0UNDTRIP
*499
cn
CO
()
FROM
FROM
BALTIMORE/FROM
NEW YORK
i
iCHICAGO
Super APEX Fares. Apnl 1-April 30, 19S3. 7-60 day stay. 14 day advance purchase required.
ALSO LOW COST SERVICE TO PARIS, FRANKFURT, AMSTERDAM AND NICE. AND, REMEMBER, ONLY ICELANDAIR FLIES YOU TO THE BREATHTAKING BEAUTY OF ICELAND. AND INCLUDES ALL THESE EXTRAS:
 Free deluxe motorcoach from Luxembourg to Frankfurt, Dsseldorf, 
Cologne, Bitburg, Mannheim, Wuppertal and Kehl, Germany.  Bargain 
car rentals from $99/week in Luxembourg.  Free wine with dinner,
cognac after.Icelandair to Luxembourg. Luxair connecting service toother destinations.(Chicago-Midweek Fare.) Purchase tickets in U.S. All fares subject to change and government approval. See your travel agent or call 800/555-1212 for the toll-free Icelandair number in your area.
ICELANDAIRNOW MOKI THAN IVU YOUR BIST VAlUl TO iUROPl

---------------------------------------------------

%April 5, 1983The TartanPage 13
Viewpoints on defense, war compiled
By CLARKE SIMMONS
fattenstaffufttofr ' 4 * -  vi
is second of thfee artic les bqsed 
 '0n a survey of CMU students. The survey of 
03 students, 46 males and 57 females, was 
conducted campus-wide; a cross-section of 
students in all five undergraduate colleges 
yjas sampled.
The opinions expressed by students on 
the issues of military spending, a nuclear 
weapons freeze and the threat of nuclear war 
are presented in this article.
The upper bar graph depicts the percen
tages of affirmative answers to the question: 
Do you approve or disapprove of the current 
U.S. military build-up? Build-up may 
have been a bad choice of words on two 
counts. First it is not an accurate description 
of the situation. In reality the Defense 
Department is going through a moderniza
tion program in an effort to catch up to the 
Soviet Union.
Secondly, the vast majority of those polled 
were not even aware of the re-armament 
effort and the slighdy sensadonalisdc word
ing may have influenced their answers. This 
is supported by the higher approval rating 
offered by those who could be considered 
informed.
Students were considered informed if they 
met three criteria: they knew Casper Wein
berger is the Secretary of Defense; they 
placed the percentage of the federal budget 
*oing for defense between 20% and 49% (32% 
is correct); and they put the percentage of the 
defense budget going for nuclear deter
rence between 0% and 19% (9% is correct). 
See the first article, 3/8/83 Tartan.] Admit
tedly, only seven students met all three 
jiteria.
The middle bar graph presents the per
centages of those favoring a nuclear wea
pons freeze. The question was predicted on 
the theory a bilateral nuclear weapon pro
duction freeze cjuld be enforceable. In real
ity the enforceability of such a freeze is at best 
questionable. An interesting negative corre
lation occured in the informed category 
with an equal amount of people favoring 
both the freeze and the build-up.
The bottom graph can be considered 
either an expression of hope or fear. The 
likelihood of a nuclear war within the next 
ten years was the topic. Those questioned 
were asked to place their evaluation on a 
scale of one to ten, with ten as certain to 
happen and one as will not happen. Dis
turbingly, those who know what theyre 
talking about gave the second highest prob
ability.
Percentage of people approving of the current U.S. military modernization program.
FT71%
44%

45%46%
Overall Informed CIT MCS AMS CFA H&SS
Percentage of people favoring the theory of a bilateral nuclear weapons production freeze.
Overall Informed CIT MCS AMS CFA H&SS
On a scale of 1 to 10 with 10 as certain to happen and las will not happen, where would 
you place the likelihood of a nuclear war within the next ten years?
4.34.5

3.83.7Hi
Overall Informed CIT MCS AMS CFA H&SS
Corrections
In the Greek Sing supplement of March 
15, the article on Greek sing by John Cantine should have been labelled with a 
Review box. It was not intended to be read 
as an objective news report.
In a recent issue of the Tartan, several 
typographical errors appeared in the review 
of Triumphs album, Never Surrender. 
First, the name of the lead guitarist/vocalist 
is Rik Emmett, not Rils Emmett. Also, the 
album mentioned as Armed Forces is in fact 
Allied Forces.
If you were unmarried on 
the last day of the year 
and maintained a home 
for a parent, child, or 
other relative, you may 
be able to file as Head of 
Household and pay less 
tax than filing as a single 
taxpayer. Check the in
structions for details.
A public service message from the Internal Revenue Servicesilt
oNIKOWkO*
O
SHARE 
THE COST 
OF 
LIVING
Give to the 
American 
Cancer Society*
This space contributed as a pubhc service.
sefe
$5.00 minimum order
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call
Birthright at 621 -1988
PREGNANT? Call ATA 
Lets talk about your options.
HOTLINE; (412) 731-2420 
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706 
9C8 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
8-10 a.m. W; 11 a.m.-1 p.m. 
MTTFS
Free and confidential informa
tion, counseling, pregnancy 
testing and related services.
sAECLksEN&Cn EP sUPLENPk 
Nkg
a non-profit organization

---------------------------------------------------

FINALS
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
Final Examination Policy and Schedule
Office of the Registrar 
Spring 1982-83
POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of final 
examinations for the undergraduate courses:
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for
exam purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so that
people can leave earlier;
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given finals
day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving conflicts;
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24 hour period of the student's
choosing during the final exam period.
Requests for exceptions to this policy should be made to Richard A. Rainsberger,
Registrar.
BIOLOGICALSCIENCES
03-110Perspectvs of BiologyTueMay105:30-8:30DH2315
03-114Life Origin EvolutnFriMay68:30-11:30PH20, PH 21
03-121Modern BiologyThuMay121:00-4:00DH2210
03-231Biochemistry IWedMay111:00-4 :00BH231
03-350Developmntl BiologyMonMay91:00-4:00SH224
03-441Molec Bio ProkaryoteThuMay121:00-4:00SH125
03-760Membrn Biochm BiophyMonMay95:30-8:30MI355
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
06-101 Intro to Chem Engr Fri May
06-152 Princ of Fluid Mech Fri May
06-202 Unit Operations Ch E Fri May
06-304 Econ & Optimization Fri May
06-310 Transport Phenomena Tue May
06-702 Adv App Reac Kinetcs Mon May
06-704 Adv Heat Mass Trnsfr Thu May
06-707 Phya Chm Coll & Surf Tue May
06-712 Colloids & Dispersions Wed May
138:30-11:30DH1112,DH1212
68:30-11:30DH1112,BH231
68:30-11:30103
61:00-4:00DH1112,DH1212
105:30-8:30DH1209
98:30-11:30DH2105
128:30-11:30DH2105
105:30-8:30DH1112,DH1212
111:00-4:00DH1112,PH20
09-104Ch Asp Org Btoch Mt1
CHEMISTRY 
Tue May101:00-4:onDII2105
09-105Dynamics & EqoilibTimMny128:10-11: 10MM14, MM
09-106Bonding Struct PrincWedMav1 11:00-4 :noC.regK Mall
09-117Organic Chemistry IMonMay95: 10-R:30Cr*-Kg Hall
09-142Physcl Chemistry 1Fr 1Mav1 38:10-II: inSH125
09-218Organic Chemistry IIThuMav128: 10-11: inDll2115
09-244Physcl Chemistry IIITueMn V108: 10-11: 30DII1212
09-248Inorganic ChemistryMonMay91:00-4:noDII1212
09-540Prnc Tech Poly CharWedMay1 18:10-11: 10DII1211
09-712Synth Organic ChemM011Mav95:'in-8:10DII2122
civil. EditdEEotdi
12-100Intro Engr Plan DesThuMay121 :()()-/. :nnIllI9A
12-208DynamicsTue
>
fi
T.108 : 10-1 1 : 0SII125
12-211Solid Mechanics IFriMay1 )8: 0-1 1 : 10PIII9A
12-325Soil MechanicsTueMav108: 10-11 : 10IMI1 2 IR
12-604Systems Engr 11MonMa V95: 10-8:10PII12 IB
12-621Structural Mech 11TueMay105:10-8:10PH21
12-632Water Resources EngrThuMay125:10-8:10PII12 IB
12-635Envrn Eng Issues PrbThuMay128: 10-11 : 10PII121
12-637Prb Engr ProJ EvaluaWedMav118:30-11 :10PII21
12-647C E Project SeminarThuMav121 :00-4:00PII107A
12-704Reliablty Risk AnalFriMay68:30-11 :10PII12 IB
12-756Stblty Phenom MchncsFriMay68:30-11 : 10PII117
12-768Fin El Meth Str MechMonMav98:10-11 : 30IMII07A
12-772Earth Quake EngrFriMay61.00-4:00rii1 2 IB
12-782Theortcl Soil MechMonMay91 :00-4:00PIII07A
12-789Sp Tpcs in RoboticsWedMayII1:00-4:00PIII21R
COMPUTER SCIENCE
24-112
24-121
24-203
24-215
24-246
24-258
24-297
27-131
27-216
27-322
27-332
27-442
27-512
27-530
27-552
27-752
33-101
33-113
33-116
33-122
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
18-102Electrnc Circuits IThuMay128:30-11:30SH 125, HH 10, HH H HH 1118-114Electrical Engr IIAMonMay95:30-8:30
18-133Intro to Digital SysFriMay138:30-11:30Gregg Hall, DH 2315 
WEH 7500
18-218Linear Systems AnalTueMay108:30-11:30HH 10, HH 11
18-222An Des Anlg Dig CircFriMay61:00-4:00DH 221018-236Intro Sol St ElctrncMonMay95:30-8:30WEH 7500
18-243Bioinstr Elec SafetyWedMay111:00-4:00PH 126B18-304Fids Waves Trn LinesWedMay115:30-8:30DH 2315
18-310Fund Communetn SystMonMay98:30-11:30HH 11
18-341Elctrmch Fids Fr MotFriMay65:30-8:30SH 212
18-430Arms Cntrl & Def PolMonMay91:00-4:00BH 245
MATHEMATICS
21-111Calculus I (H&SS)WedMay111:00-4:00DH 1212
21-112Calculus II (H&SS)WedMay111:00-4:00DH 2315, WEH 7500
21-121Calculus IFriMay65:30-8:30PH 19C
21-122Calculus IIMonMay98:30-11:30Gregg Hall, DH 2210, 
DH 2315, WEH 7500
21-127Discr Math Cmptr SciThuMay121 :00-4 :00,Gregg Hall
21-258Optmztn Soc Sci IIWedMay111:00-4:00HH 10, HH 11, SH 125
21-259Mthds Appl Math IFriMay65:30-8:30DH 2210, DH 2315
21-260Mthds Appl Math IIFriMay61:00-4:00Gregg Hall, DH 2315, 
SH 125
21-261Elements of AnalysisTueMay108:30-11:30MM 103, MM 14
21-292Operations Rsch IMonMay95:30-8:30DH 2315
21-301CombinatoricsTueMay108:30-11:30DH 1112
21-341Linear Algebra IIWedMay118:30-11:30HH 11
21-369Numerical MethodsFriMay68:30-11:30PH 225C
21-457Differentl GeometryWedMay118:30-11:30WEH 6423
21-473AlgebraFriMay65:30-8:30Gregg Hall
21-476Ord Diff EquationsFriMay61:00-4:00WEH 5427
21-483Opt imizat ionWedMay111:00-4:00MM 14, MM 103
21-484Applied Graph TheoryThuMay128:30-11:30PH 225C
21-487Appl Optimal ControlWedMay118:30-11:30WEH 5403
21-493Partial Diff EquatnsThuMay128:30-11:30WEH 5427
21-552Mathmtcl Logic IIFriMay131:00-4:00WEH 5415
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Fluid Mechanics I 
Thermodynamics I 
Stress Analysis
Potenti Flow Aerodyn 
FeedbkaCntrl Systems
Numerical Methods 
Energy Envrnmntl Sys
Fri May 
Wed May 
Tue May 
Tue May
Mon May 
Fri May 
Fri May 
Wed May 11 
Tue May
6830-11: 30HH10,HH11
11530-8:30HH10,HH11
10830-11: 30SH220
10830-11: 30SH224
10830-11: 30SH212
9100-4:00BH231
6830-11: 30SH206SH224
6830-11: 30SH212SH220
11100-4:00SH422
10. 530-8:30SH220SH224
METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
Materials Science 
Transport & Kinetics 
Process Metallurgy 
Physcl Metallurgy II 
Plast & Frac of Mtls 
Diffraction Mth MEMS 
Alloy Steels 
Ceramics & Glasses 
Expr Tech Matls Rsch
WedMay111:00--4:00DH2210
ThuMay121:00--4:00DH1212
ThuMay128: 30--11 :30DHA317
WedMay1 11:00--4:00DHA317
FriMay61:00--4:00DHA317
FriMay65: 30--8: 30BH231
TueMay101:00--4:O0HH10
TueMay108: 30--11:30DHA317
FriMay65: 30--8: 30BH231
PHYSICS
Cncpts Mdrn Physics 
Phys Musical Sound 
Introductory Physics 
Physics II Ht Wv Opt
MonMay95:: 30--8:30WEH6423
ThuMay128:: 30--11: 30BH231
TueMay101 ::00--4:00HH11
FriMay68:: 30--11: 30Gregg Hall
DH 2210, DH 2315, 
WEH 7500, SH 125 MM I4 
WEH 5415, WEH 5427
33-123Physics III Elec MagFriMay131:00-4:00WEH 7500
33-124Phys IV Phy St MtFriMay65:30-8:30WEH 5403
33-131Physcl Mechanics IIMonMay95:30-8:30DH 1212
33-438Intrmd Elec & Mag IITueMay105:30-8:30WEH 8427
33-442Intro Stat PhysicsFriMay131:00-4:00WEH 8427
33-444Intro Nuclear PhysFriMay61:00-4:00WEH 7316
33-446Wave MechanicsFriMay68:30-11:30PH*19C
33-448Intro Solid St PhysFriMay65:30-8:30WEH 6423
33-454Physics of ContinuaFriMay131:00-4:00WEH 7316
33-756Quantum Mechanics IIWedMay118:30-11:30PH 19C
33-760Intro Theo Phys IITueMay101:00-4:00WEH 6423
33-761Classcl Elctrodyn IMonMay95:30-8:30WEH 7316
STATISTICS
36-209Prb App Sta Mg SS IFriMay61:00-4:00SH 422
15-118Intro to Computing C(LISP) FriMay61 :00-4 :00PII 19C36-210Prb App Sta Mg SS IIAFriMay65:30-8:30SH 125
15-200Surv Prgmng Mth AppiTue May105:30-8:30HH IIBFriMay65:30-8:30HH 10
15-211Fund Str Progrmng ITue May105:30-8:30DH 2210CFriMay65:30-8:30HH 11
15-212Fund Str Progrmng IIThuMay125:30-8:30DH 221036-212Prb App St Ph S & E IITueMay101:00-4:00WEH 7500
15-312Caprtv Prgrmng LangFriMay131:00-4:00DH 121236-216Probability Stat IIFriMay61:00-4:00WEH 7500
15-411Comp1er DesignThu May121:00-4:00PH 19C36-219Stat Mth Data An IFriMay65:30-8:30PH 225C
15-413Software Engr MthdsTue May108:30-11:30WEH 542736-220Stat Mth Data An IIMonMay91:00-4:00WEH 5427
36-375Elem Appi ProbabltyThuMay125:30-8:30SH 125
ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POLICYCIT INTERDISCIPLINARY PROCRAM
19-319
19-420
19-430
Law and the Engineer 
Chm Tchnlg Envrn Soc 
Arm* Cntrl fc Dev Pol
Thu Hay 12 
Tue May 10 
Mon Mav 9
I:00-4:00 
I:00-4:00 
I:00-4:OO
BH 2)1 
PH I25C
BH 245
39-252
39-300
R1 Tm Comput In Lab 
Anal Synth & Evalua
Thu May 12 
ral May 10
8:30-11 :30 
5:30-8:30
WF.II 7500 
1 103

---------------------------------------------------

BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERINGENGLISH
physiology
lio Trns Phrackntcs
physiology
Design Sciences Theo 
LeCorbusier 
Europe Arc 1850-Pres 
Theory VI Design Mgt
Tue May 1I 
Fri May 13 
Tue May 11
ARCHITECTURE
Tue May 10 
Wed May 11 
Thu May 12 
Thu May 12
MUSIC
1:00-4:00 
1:00-4:00 
1:00-4:0
1:00-4:00 
1:00-4:00 
1:00-4:00 
1:00-4:00
H&SS INTERDISCIPLINARY PROGRAM
Marx Balzac Lib Rev 
Th* High Middle Ages
Prlnc of Economics
Tue May 10 
Fri May 6
ECONOMICS
1:00-4:00 
5:30-8:30
termed Microecon
^termed Macroecon
!ndu  Labor Rei 
Sulatn Theo & Pol 
fit-Cost Anal y
onometrics
""Y and Banking
WEH 5415 
WEH 5427 
WEH 5415
MM 14, MM 103 
HL Sem 
HL Sem 
MM 14
Involvmnt with MusicMonMay99:30-10:30CFA 160Harmony IMonMay91:00-3:00MM 103Harmony IIThuMay128:30-10:30CFA 160Eurythmies ITueMay108:30-1:00MM 119Eurythmies IITueMay108:30-1:00MM 119Eurythmies IIIThuMay129:30-11:30MM 119Solfege Mus Thea IThuMay121:00-3:00MM 127Solfege Mus Thea IIThuMay128:30-10:30MM 127Solfege IFriMay138:30-10:30MM 127Solfege IIFriMay68:30-10:30MM 127History of Music IIIMonMay95:30-7:30CFA 160Tonal CounterpointFriMay61:00-3:00CFA 15720th Cent TechniquesFriMay65:30-6:30CFA 157
FugueMonMay99:30-10:30CFA 157Instrnmtl ConductingFriMay139:30-10:30ACHChoral ConductingFriMay65:30-6:30MM 119Form and AnalysisTueMay101:00-3:0.0HL L.R.Berlioz Romantic CenThuMay121:00-3:00CFA 160
Opera SurveyWedMay119:30-11:30CFA 160Italian DictionFriMay69:30-10:30CFA 160
German DictionTueMay101:00-2:00CFA 107Kybd Hrm & Score RdgWedMay111:00-3:00CFA 160
Adv Diction ItalianFriMay69:30-10:30CFA 160Vocal PedagogyThuMay121:00-2:00CFA 157
Plano ImprovisationFriMay131:00-3:00ACH
Berlioz Romantic CenThuMay121:00-3:00CFA 160
Opera SurveyWedMay119:30-11:30CFA 160
ADMINISTRATIONAND MANAGEMENTSCIENCE
Elem Industri AdminATueMay101:00-4:00BH 231
BTueMay101:00-4:00BH 231
Financial AccountingThuMay125:30-8:30DH 1212, 
DH 2315
Intro Gra Cmnctns IFriMay6 8:30-11 :30SU 422Intro Gra Cmnctns IIFriMay61 :00-4:00SII 224
Graph Commun Proc 11TueMay108:30-11 :30SU 422Orgnztnl Behavior ITueMay105:30-8:30Rii 131
Orgnztnl Behavior IIFriMay61 :00-4:00PII I26A
Foundations of LawThuMay121:00-4:00WFJI 7500
Lav In Mdrn Amer SocWedMay118:30-11:30WF.H 7500
Production IATueMay105:30-8:30PH 19C
BTueMay105:30-8:30PH 20
Marketing IFriMay61 :00-4:00PH 20
Finance IAThuMay128:30-11 :30PH 19C
BThuMay128:30-11:30PH 20
CThuMay128:30-11 :30PII 21
Cost AccountingMonMay95:30-8:30Bll 131
Advanced AccountingWedMay118:30-11 :30PH 20
Lin Mdls Dem FrcstngTueMay108:30-11 :30PH 20, PII 21
Strategic ManagementTueMay101 :00-4:00Pir 20
Mgmnt Informatn SystFriMay68:30-11:30BH 131
Marketing IIMonMay98:30-11:30PH 21
Ctph Cmnctn Proc IIITueMay101:00-4:00PH I26B
PH 225C 
BH 255A
AMonMa91:00-4:00SH125
* BtonMa91:00-4:00PH19A
CMonMa91:00-4 :00PHI9C
DMonMa91:00-4 :00PH20
EMonMa91:00-4:00PH21
FMonMa91:00-4:00BH131
G-MMonMa91:00-4:00DII2210
AMonMa98:30-11:30PH20
BMonMa98:30-11:30BH231
CMonMa98:30-11:30MM 103
DMonMa98:30-11:30MM14
EMonMa98:30-11 :30PHI9A
AMonMa91:00-4:00PH225C
BMonMa91:00-4:00PH125C
CMonMa91:00-4:00DH1112
DMonMa91:00-4:00PH125D
WedMa118:30-11:30MM14
ThuMa128:30-11:30PHI25D
MonMa98:30-11:30BH131
ThuMa125:30-8:30BH131
ThuMa121:00-4 :00PH21
76101Fiction and FactAIMonMay95:30-8:30BH231
BHMonMay95:30-8:30DH1112
CMonMay95:30-8:30PH225C
DMonMay95:30-8:30PH226A
EMonMay95:30-8:30PH226B
FMonMay95:30-8:30PH226C
GMonMay95:30-8:30BH229B
JMonMay95:30-8:30BH235A
76-170Advanced ExpositionTueMay101:00-4:00BH255A
76-220Modern NovelAThuMay125:30-8:30BH235A
BThuMay125:30-8:30BH235B
76-221Tchnlgy Humanst RespTueMay108:30-11:30BH235A
76-230Bblcl Myth Bkgrd LitThuMay121:00-4:00MM10376-244ShakespeareAThuMay125:30-8:30PH226A
BDThuMay125:30-8:30PH225C
CThuMay125:30-8:30PH226B
EThuMay125:30-8:30PH226C
76-32020th Century PoetryTueMay101:00-4:00BH235A
76-341Romantic RevolutionWedMay118:30-11:30BH235B
76-342British DramaAWedMay111:00-4:00BH235A
BWedMay111:00-4:00BH235B
76-371Rhetor Soc InteractnAMonMay98:30-11:30BH245
BMonMay98:30-11:30BH255A
76-420Wrt Prod Aud-Vis MedMonMay95:30-8:30BH235B
76-431Tolstoi & DostoevskiMonMay98:30-11:30BH235B
76-472Journalism InternshpFriMay65:30-8:30BH235A
76-488Cntmp Theo InventionTueMay108:30-11:30BH229B
76-888Cntmp Theo InventionTueMay108:30-11:30BH229B
HISTORYANDPHILOSOPHY
79-102Shaping Wstrn CivATueMay108:30-10:30BH232F
BTueMay108:30-10:30BH235B
CTueMay108:30-10:30PH107A
79-110Origins of Mdrn WrldThuMay128:30-10:30Gregg Hall,
79-120Dev of Amer SocietyWedMay118:30-10:30Gregg Hall,
79-224Hst & Lit Latin Amer.TueMay101:00-3:00PH125D
79-229The Amer ExperienceThuMay125:30-7:30BH245
79-233Mkng of Mdrn FamilyFriMay65:30-7:30BH245
79-305Civ WRec 1850-1880ThuMay125:30-7:30BH2 54A
79-308Rec Amer Foreign PolWedMay118:30-10:30BH245
79-331Modern ChinaFriMay68:30-10:30BH235A
79-351Amer West Fact FictnThuMay121:00-3:00PH225C
79-355Modern GermanyTueMay101:00-3:00BH245
79-356The Second World WarTueMay108:30-10:30PH19C
79-358Modern HeroesWedMay118:30-10:30SH125
79-359Technlgy & OrgnizatnWedMay118:30-10:30PH125C
79-371Soviet Union TodayMonMay95:30-7:30SH212
79-383Psych Intrp of HstryWedMay111:00-3:00BH245
79-388War and TechnologyFriMay65:30-7:30BH131
Philosophy Courses
80-100Philos Mthds Soc ValATueMay101:00-3:30BH131
BTueMay101:00-3:00SH206
80-205Philos & LiteratureMonMay98:30-10:30PH225B80-210Professional EthicsMonMay91:00-3:00BH235B80-250Theories of PaintingFriMay61:00-3:00PH225C80-290Philos of ReligionMonMay91:00-3:00SH22080-350Meaning of LifeThuMay121:00-3:00PH126 B80-354Soc Justice Pol InstFriMay138:30-10:30BH235B
ModemLanguage Program
82-102Elementary FrenchFriMay65:30-7:30BH235B82-103Programmed FrenchTueMay105:30-8:30BH23182-122Elementary GermanMonMay98:30-10:30DH121282-123Programmed GermanThuMay121:00-3:00PH126A82-142Elementary SpanishMonMay98:30-10:30PH226C82-162Elementary ItalianThuMay121:00-3:00PH225B82-163Programmed ItalianFriMay131:00-3:00PH225B82-202Int French Cult SocThuMay121:00-3:00BH235A82-222Int German Cult SocThuMay121:00-3:00PH126C82-242Int Spanish Cult SocMonMay98:30-10:30PH226C82-262Intermediate ItalianFriMay68:30-10:30PH225B82-302French Conver & CompThuMay12003:00BH235B82-322German Conver & CompWedMay118:30-10:30PH226A82-342Spanish Cnvrsatn CmpWedMay111:00-3:00BH2 54A82-412Cntmp French TheatreFriMay65:30-7:30PH226C82-430German Lit of 20th CThuMay118:30-10:30BH230
PSYCHOLOGY AND EDUCATION
85-101General PsychologyWedMay115:30-6:30Gregg Hall85-113Psych Learn Prb SolvMonMay91:00-4:00BH255A85-211Cognitive PsychologyAWedMay118:30-10:30 *DH2315CWedMay118:30-10:00BH340A85-241Intro Social PsychMonMay98:30-11:30PH19C85-251PersonalityFriMay65:30-7:30PH226B85-271Envrnmntl PsychologyTueMay108:30-10:00BH340A
85-310Rsch Mthds Cog PsychFriMay65:30-8:30BH331H85-320Rsch Mthds Dev PsychFriMay138:30-9:30BH340A85-354Abnormal PsychologyWedMay118:30-11:30BH23185-356Intro Clinical PsychMonMay95:30-8:30PH126A
SOCIAL SCIENCE
88-101Social InfluenceTue May108:30-11:30Gregg Hall,
DH2315, WEH88-102Dec Pr Amer Pol InstWed May115:30-8:30PH225C88-241Empirci Rsch Meth IITue May108:30-11*30PH125D88-261Orgnztnl Declsn MkngFri May61:00-4:00BH13188-281Social Sci Theory IIFri May61:00-4:00BH255A88-323Legislative ProcessMon May95:30-8:30PH 126B88-330Internatnl PoliticsWedMay111:00-4:00PH226A88-425Regulatory ProcessesFri May65:30-7:30PH21

---------------------------------------------------

yearbook 
where
Mb ED By * student WinIV in es

---------------------------------------------------

of Voodoo will be appearing at the Stanley Showcase tonight at 9:00 with Special Guest, Boystown. From left they are Joe Nanini,
Entertainment.
_____V_______________________________________________
5ray, Bill Noland, Stan Ridgway, and Marc Moreland.
e Jackson gives rubes a show
jHRISTOPHER & JENNIFER 
IWSKY
 the Tartan
Jybe if youd all shut up youd go out 
: a little less ignorant than when you 
1, he said ruefully.
Joe, take it easy, you know how 
surely hit records and the stale 
smell of success can attract the 
rabble.
Actually, there was an abun[of intelligent, mature concert-goers 
|ng Joe Jacksons Stanley Theatre per' two Thursdays ago. It was the few 
and hollerers, most noticeably 
songs and during the playing of 
Song, who prompted the wry 
hes from the stage. The poor 
behavior, however, made the can|n of the King Biscuit Flower Hour 
(rather a relief. Technical difficulties 
official explanation for the recordlination, but I suspect that the 
half-empty theater was the true reanyway, I wouldnt want a nation of 
fans to think that Pittsburgh is 
musical rubes.
for the good news. Joe Jacksons
three-hour show was an abolutely challeng
ing, inspiring, and extremely diverse con
cert, which enormously exceeded any of 
todays live music standards. From Tuxedo 
Junction to Motown covers, Joe displayed 
more talent and virtuosity than any of his 
pal contemporaries. Go Joe!
The band appeared before a backdrop 
consisting of half of the American flag att
ached to half of the British flag (just as trite 
as it sounds). Marimbas, congos, and var
ious other percussion instruments, com
bined with a welcomed exclusion of guitars 
gave the music an extremely rhythmic qual
ity which Joe exploited and manipulated to 
some amazing degrees.
Many of the songs were altered well 
beyond their vinyl interpretations, particu
larly, Is She Really Going Out With 
Him?, performed a capella, from Jacksons 
Look Sharp album.
The show was divided into two segments, 
with the second half opening with Frank 
Sinatra singing the Cole Porter standard 
Night and Day, which segued into Joes 
latest single, Breaking Us in Two, from 
his Night and Day LP. Every song on this 
most-popular Jackson album, his fifth
effort, was presented during the evening. 
The show also included two selections from 
Beat Crazy, Joes third release, the title track 
of the record Im the Man, and various cuts 
from Look Sharp, notably an initially 
abstract rendition of Fools in Love. Sur
prisingly, after Jacksons crowd-pleasing 
Tuxedo Junction, there were many 
annoying requests for additional material 
from his Jumpin Jive big band album. 
Obviously, only so much material can be continued on page 19
"High Road" 
is low film
By JOE NARDONE
Tartan Staffwriter
High Road to China, starring Tom Selleck as a roaring twenties fly boy, is the road 
to respectability for Selleck in the eyes of 
men. Playing the role of a drunken, rough| neck, World War I ace who now 
[teaches flying lessons, Selleck 
appeals to the male viewer in a 
| way which reverses the hatred 
generated by his previous Beef-cake roles 
on television. Earning the male audiences 
respect is aided by the contempt he shows for 
his latest employer, a beautiful blond society 
girl in search of her lost father.
Unfortunately, Selleck picked a script 
which had litde excitement, sparse humor, 
and over-all poor writing. I wanted to com
pare this movie to Raiders of the Lost Ark 
starring Harrison Ford but Selleck simply 
doesnt show the cock-sure confidence and 
quick wit displayed by Ford. However, this 
is not a fault of Sellecks, but results from the 
poor script. Another problem is the relation
ship between Selleck and his high society 
employer. Naturally, the two characters are 
at odds with one another. However, their 
conflict is taken too far, and constant bicker
ing begins to wear on a viewers nerves.
Throughout the movie the two actors 
cant have a conversation in a normal tone 
of voice. There is also a total lack of charac
ter development; each part seems two 
dimensional at best. There is none of the 
exposure to their backgrounds which would 
have made for a fuller story.
On the bright side is the 12 million dollars 
worth of on location scenery ... its nice, but 
it cant make up for poor writing. Too bad 
for Tom, who had a chance to make honest 
money as a character that wasnt intellectu
ally compromising. I suggest seeing High 
Road to China, but only at matinee prices.
Play Festival starts Monday
The third annual New Play Festival, 
showcasing the works of student playw
rights will commence Monday, April 11, 
with the presentation of Oracle, written by 
Harold W. Norris and directed by Robert G. 
Hoffman. On Tuesday, there will be a dou
ble bill: Pearl Jean, written and directed by 
Jeanine Howe; and Two Women: Marty & 
Laurie, by Lisa L. Humbertson and directed 
by Jeanine Howe. On Wednesday, April 13, 
The American Scream, written by Michael 
McGovern and directed by Jeffrey Jenkins,
will be presented. The Earth Inherited, writ
ten by Gary Glauber and directed by Chuck 
Zito, will debut on Thursday, April 14.
Finally, on April 15, The Tragedy of 
Richard of Northumberland by Bill Sterritt 
and directed by Jeff Peters, will be staged.
Each production will be staged in the Studio 
Theatre (located behind CFA) at 4:30 in the 
afternoon and 8 p.m. Admission is free. For 
more information contact the Drama Office, 
at extension 2392 or 2393.
lectic work on display at Forbes Gallery
TyhMc15
fa Tartan
artists, Laura Belfar, Jennie Har1 Allyson Hunter, are showing work 
Gallery this week. The show is 
of hand blown glass, ceramics,
I painting, drawing, photography, prints, and sitejj sculpture. Seeing the various 
I mediums in one space is visually 
However, especially interesting is 
elation of each artists two dimen[niagery and ideas into their common 
f hand blown glass. 
aura Belfars large, dynamic watercopanic shapes move and push against 
other in all directions. The paintings 
pure reds, magentas, blues, blue' ard browns were created by layering 
transparent watercolors. Each 
ems to contain some ancestor color 
L shapes near it. Iliis colorcntains and supports the shajjes 
Movement. Belfars wood-fired
ceramic sculptures are quiet and elegant 
The porcelain bone forms are lighdy 
colored with pencil and the soft smoke 
marks from the firing.
Jennie Harveys photography, video 
stills, and drawings reflect her interest in the 
eye as imagery and as a tool for the artist. 
Several of the drawings contain distorted, 
and stylized eye images or show the eye as a 
physical part of vessels. The eye is seen as an 
instrument erf communication between per
sons, between vessels and persons, and 
within persons. Her black and white photo
graphs are portraits of people with a video 
camera. In contrast to the common idea that 
the eye is extended by the camera, Harveys 
work is based on the belief that the person is 
an extension of the cameras technology.
Allyson Hunters photographs are docu
mentation of her site-specific sled sculpture. 
The sculpture is made of materials native to 
her site: a farm in Ashville, New York. It was 
positioned on the farm in relation to the 
angles of buildings and the land.
It looks like a large, dark, wooden arrow 
rising out erf the snow. However, the sled has 
no runners, and this lack arrests the sleds 
modem. The artist uses the sled as a relic of 
memory, or an experience reserved for child
hood but important to a persons individual 
history and present self.
In another sculpture, tided Sled, Hun
ter constructed a sculpture from a painting. 
Sled s curved, ceramic slats are lashed to 
the top of a curved canvas. Runners fixed 
underneath the canvas propel the false 
painting, as the ardst refers to Sled, off the 
wall.
Although Sled is fixed to the wall, the 
runners existence makes this work less an 
expression of arrested motion and memory 
relics than for bringing the canvas into 
sculptures realm.
Hunter is also exhibiting intaglio prints 
and a series of 4-color serigraphs. Each uni
que serigraph has a common 3-color 
ground, or basic, two-dimensional form, 
upon which an orange caligraphic mark
has been screened. The intaglio prints 
involve the artists concern with relics and 
her past.
The glass works on exhibit are varied and 
beautiful. Jennie Harvey makes hand 
blown vessels and molded glass botdes. 
Alterations, additions, coloring, and shap
ing are done when the vessels are extremely 
hot, too hot to handle.
A glass blowers eyes are, therefore, very 
important in judging and directing manip
ulations of the molten glass. Harveys hand 
blown vessels asymmetric shapes and swi
rling, looped color hark back to the motions 
of their birth. The molded botdes are related 
to Harveys research on similar botdes pro
duced in Pittsburgh to commemorate events 
or ideas.
The glass is blown into a mold to form 
the botdes main form. The neck is shaped 
by reheating the formed botde and working 
the neck end over the glory' hole, a hole in 
the door to die glass furnace. The bottles 
continued on page 19

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanApril 5, 1983
Choreographer to talk about her life
ANNA SOKOLOW
Anna Sokolow, noted dancer, choreo
grapher and stage director, will talk about 
her life and work at 8 p.m. at the Mellon 
Institute auditorium, 4400 Fifth Avenue (S. 
Bellefield entrance) tonight.
She also will show a film of her dancedrama on the Holocaust, Dreams, which 
is dedicated to the memory of Anne Frank. 
Admission is free. The lecture is sponsored 
by the United Jewish Federation and the 
Bnai Brith Hillel Foundation.
Throughout her career, Sokolow has 
prided herself on creating dances and theater 
pieces that comment on current events or 
matters of social interest. In 1953 she established a long association with Israel 
through the Inbal dance company. She con
tinues to spend a substantial amount of her 
time each year in Israel, choreographing, 
teaching and advising.
Her involvement in Jewish themes is 
reflected in her 1981 production, Song of
Songs, as well as in the synagogue 
her production, From the Diaries of 
Kafka.
Sokolow is a member of the facui 
Julliard, the Lincoln Center, ^ 
Hebrew Center for the Arts in New 
City.
The "M*A*S*H" debate begi
"Spring Break" breaks down
By DOUG BLAIR
Tartan Staffxvriter
College students are a difficult audience 
for filmmakers to reach. Other than the fact 
that we are (by and large) young, theres no 
handle to use to hook us. The market, how
ever, is amazingly large. We 
account for half of the movies 
seen in any given year. Rather 
than tailoring an advertising 
to the audience, the makers erf Spring Break 
have tried to tailor the movie to the audien
ce. Spring Break is the story of Nelson 
and Adam say the ads. And so it is. Nelson 
is a moderately nerdy type who has come to 
Florida for break with Adam, a mildly nerdy 
type. After having their reservations con
fused and suddenly adopting a pair of some
what less nerdy individuals, we get a series of 
gags revolving around kids, beer and sex. A 
few are funny, but they dont contribute to 
the movie; the movie is simply a vehicle to 
exploit anything humorous the writers
could find that dealt with college students.
About a third of the way into the movie, 
Nelsons father rears his ugly head. It seems 
hes running for office, and he doesnt want 
his good name ruined by Nelson gallivant
ing around Florida. He dispatches a pair of 
unconvincing heavies to grab Nelson before 
he ruins Dad. This is done to provide some 
semblance of a plot, and to have a few fight 
scenes, not to help the story develop in any 
papable form.
In Animal House (my personal standard 
for college humor flicks) there was a real 
plot. The jokes revolved around the plot. In 
Spring Break, what little plot there is gets 
bent around the jokes. If the jokes were 
funny enough, its conceivable that the 
movie might make it. They are not that 
funny here. There are a few, but the bulk of 
the film is a rehash of each joke/gag/funny 
scene you have ever seen that dealt with 
students. You should get a few chuckles, but 
I wouldnt pay to see it if I were you.
By JOE GUARINO
Tartan Staffwriter
Answers to two questions last issue didnt 
seem to satisfy some. Col. Blake once said if 
Dr. Sydney Friedman certified Klinger as 
crazy, hed sign his Section 8. But Blake 
never agreed to give a psycho-discharge on 
his own.
I would agree that Father Mulcahy and 
Klinger were not in the original cast, but, 
according to Time magazine, they were. I 
feel if you include these two, then Spearchucker Jones, Ugly John, and two or three 
nurses should be included. Then you can 
always go with the cast from the pilot which 
included Pierce (Alda), McIntyre (Rogers), 
Bums (Linville), Houlihan (Swit), OReilly 
(Burghoff), with G. Wood as the C.O., and 
Karen Phillip as a nurse. David Ogden Stiers played Major Winchester.
At any rate, here we go with this weeks 
questions:
1. Who was C.O. when Hunnicut arrived?
2. Whats B.J.s daughters name?
3. Whats Potters wifes name?
4. Who conducted the interview?
5. What did Radar trade to get the 
incubator?
6. Give Captain Tuttles height, weight, 
hair and eye color, place of graduation, and 
hometown. What did he do that was so
commendable? Who played Capt 
Did he exist?
7. Col. Potter made a tontine with 
buddies in 1917 during WWI. Whi 
they make it? Name the four buddii
8.Who was Dr. Right and Dr. Left 
the names? Who played Dr. Left?
9. What was Radars uncles am
10. What was Blakes wifes name?
paipflJY
H
ilpjEg jq paABfd Hpjy uaqo^ 
93uaq tore iqSu siq a^ojq 
pire dan, siq unq aAa^MEjj umo 
pa^potDf pue papofdxa quioq e maped 
SupEdo 9|ii{M iiun aqi paiisiA oqw 
ueijiad e Hiareg iq pue
[Ajea eui Suijpds] k
U13JS ifpUOlQ UE'H ipiM 33URLJ 
-Etp E UI aupuoi 3ip apEUI J3H0J jor
N ipsumi 
uEjnsui aji| siq jo juaidpai ajos 
-ireqdio siESAqj 'S 01 sipaipAed )p
9AE 9J-I UESlipiJ^ 9Jl}Eg t)l
-ld ipreq iumqnE sqj %\ :y/]
{tjS anbaqjEq auu puRiq 
swaqo^j se suaqofl 3i3[ 
paipp
UUi
suing 9n5d8 jofe
HERES A GOOD DEAL
o y
%RFF JONES CHALLENGES HIGH 
GOLD COST!... AND YOU WIN!
SEE THE ENTRE COLLECTION OF 
HERFF JONES COLLEGE RNGS AT:
LAST CHANCE BEFORE GRADUATION
sMoeO 4 J Bv1DATE: yrcb J E1)o5b f|ME: 20600 vi 8600
HERFF JOMESCarnation Company
S2b00 
frMiGev
FOR A GREAT HAND!
THE CMU 
PHILOSOPHY CLUB
Presents a provocative paradox and a mon 
strous fantasy - - to entertain, and to enlightei 
us on the relevance of philosphical puzzles to 
problems of real-world policy.
Professor Thomas Schwartz
Department of Government 
University of Texas 
Will Speak On
POLICY AND 
COMPLIANCE:
THE LESSON OF DR. 
KRANKHEIT AND THE 
MONSTER WHO EATS 
BABIES
Wednesday, April 6 - - 7:30 p.mGSIA Masters Auditorium
(Through the double doors off the GSIA main lobby, 
All members of the CMU community and friend:
SfG welcome Funded by Student Activities:

---------------------------------------------------

April 5, 1983The TartanPage 19
Tony winners arrive at CMU 
to help Drama with "Mikado
Four Tony Award winners will take part 
in CMUs production of The Mikado, April 
14 to 30 in the Kresge Theater on campus.
Illustrator Edward Gorev, who won a 
Tony for the set design for Dracula, has 
created the costumes and sets for the show, 
which is jointly produced by the drama and 
music departments. Gorey has written or 
illustrated 20 books including The Wuggly 
Ump, The Epileptic Bicycle, Gorey End
ings, and most recently, a reissue of T.S. 
Eliots Old Possums Book of Practical Cats.
His costumes call for fabrics by Laura 
Ashley, noted for her English country 
prints. Ashley has donated the fabric to the 
CMU drama department.
Roger Morgan, a 1962 CMU alumnus 
who won a Tony for lighting Crucifer of 
Blood, will create the lighdng for The 
Mikado. His firm, Roger Morgan Studios, 
has designed such theaters as Syracuse Stage 
Company, Symphony Hall in Springfield 
(MA), Indiana Repertory Theater, Play
house Square in Cleveland, Wheeler Opera 
House in Aspen (CO), and Bard-Avon 
Theater in Poughkeepsie (NY).
John Wulp, a visidng professor in the
CMU drama department, is a consultant on 
the production. Wulp won a Tony as pro
ducer of Dracula on Broadway. He is best 
know for his productions of such works by 
playwright John Guare as Lydie Breeze, 
Bosoms and Neglect, Marco Polo Sings a 
Solo and Landscape of the Body.
Mel Shapiro, head of CMUs drama 
department, will direct. Shapiro received a 
Tony Award along with John Guare for the 
best libretto for the musical, Two Gentle
men of Verona.
The cast of The Mikado includes Wiley 
Kidd, John Scherer, Davidson Thomson, 
Michael OSteen, Paul Schoeffler, Susan 
Parker, Leslie Ellis, Portia Kamons, Karen 
Sullivan, and Kristina Smith.
Although The Mikado is set in Japan, 
this most popular of the Gilbert and Sulli
van works is a satire directed at the English. 
The drama has been described as the best 
light opera ever written in English.
The show runs at 8 p.m., Monday 
through Saturday (except April 18); mati
nees at 2 p.m. on April 16, 23 and 30. For 
further information, contact the CMU box 
office at 578-2407.
Diverse art at Gallery
continued from page 17
have a raised design on one of their three 
sides. They are particularly beautiful in 
form, and have a sensuous transparency and 
smoothness.
Laura Bel fars hand blown glass vessels 
are asymmetrical, biomorphic forms with 
blown and hot worked additions. The addi
tions seem to be organic growths off the
original form, and thus reflect the artists 
methods of building a surface in her 
paintings.
Allyson Hunter extends her serigraphic 
ideas concerning embellishment of a sim
ple, functional form in her hand blown 
glass vessels. Mother of Pearl designs are in 
sharp relief and contrast to her sandblasted 
forms.
U students, left to right, Eric Riebling, Marthe Cotton, Victor Aluise and Sharon 
Ibord will appear in Carried Away, an original musical to be presented by Scotch n 
a. The play also stars Donna Marvin, Gary Middleton and Maria Rehnstrom. Perfor,ces will be at 8 p.m., April 14-16 and 20-23 in the Skibo Ballroom.
pera plans for "Manon Le scant
uccini and the Pittsburgh Opera are 
iher again in the opera, Manon Lescaut, 
rsday, April 21, and Saturday, April 23,ackson live
hued from page 17
0red for a tour, and the audience was 
uly demanding.
he night culminated in a fresh and, even 
omparison to the diversity of the entire 
iv, completely different Motown medley, 
s set included a version of Heatwave 
gby one of the two women who are now 
rime members of the band.
II in all, we have a truly uninspired 
osphere playig host to an emotional, 
ere, and exceptional musician. Hardly 
is fair.
in Heinz Hall.
Its the final performance for our 1982- 
1983 season, Vincent R. Artz, general man
ager of the Pittsburgh Opera announced, 
and we intend to close that curtain with a 
resounding success.
Manon Lescaut will be sung in Italian. It 
is the story of a young woman, lovely yet 
greedy, who abandons her young lover for 
the wealthy gifts of an older patron. When 
the young lovers meet, the jealous patron 
turns Manon over to the police as an 
immoral woman. She is imprisoned and 
then exiled to the marshes of Louisiana, 
where she dies in her young lovers arms.
Ticket information for Manon Lescaut 
may be obtained by calling (412) 281-0912. 
Performances are at 8 p.m.
Announcing the
7th Annual Forbes Gallery
Juried Show of Art
campus-wide competition
work must be submitted:
Sat., April 16th 5-7 p.m. 
or 
Sun., April 17th 11-2 p.m.
Work must be ready to hang, labeled with 
students name, phone, title, medium, and
price.
Applications for 1983-84 
Forbes Gallery staff positions 
are now available at the Skibo 
Information Desk, Art Office, 
and English Office.
 Director
 Assistant Director
 Public Relations
 Business Manager
Completed Applications are due at 
Skibo Information Desk by
FRIDAY, APRIL 15
All students are eligible to apply
Funded by Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanApril 5, 1983
U.S. strategy not "survival-robust"
continued from page 10
command posts located near Moscow, as a 
hostile move and further evidence of a drive 
by the U.S. to bolster first-strike capabilities. 
Steinbrunner thinks that recent changes in 
the zero-zero proposal have not substan
tially changed anything except Reagans sta
ture among NATO allies.
In addition, Steinbrunner thinks Rea
gans plan to step up development of an 
anti-missile satellite system is his most 
menacing stance yet. In the March 28 PostGazette, Andropov said the idea indicated 
that the United States was trying to become 
the worlds dominating military power.  
An anti-missile satellite system could make 
a first-strike option begin to look possible, 
Steinbrunner said.
Command and control systems operate 
under negative or positive contexts of con
trol, according to Steinbrunner. Negative 
corresponds to peacetime and means pre
venting nuclear weapons from being fired 
without proper authority. Positive corres
ponds to wartime and means the effective 
utilization of existing or future weaponry. 
Switching from peace to war mode is the 
crucial step, and the quicker you adapt, the 
more likely you are to win a nuclear war. In 
fact, Steinbrunner thinks that the only con
ceivable strategy for winning a nuclear war 
would boil down to who shoots first and 
most accurately. That old adage: kill the 
head and the body dies, fits only too well; 
some things just dont change. The idea is to 
knock out the command post, then the 
underlings run around wondering who 
turned out the lights and push all the but
tons their fingers can find. The killer satel
lites, if deployed (or even proposed) gravely 
threatens the Soviets ability to persuasively 
threaten the United States, consequently 
skewing the precarious balance of intimida
tion. Further escalation would be the most 
desirable result and even that would not be 
in U.S. interests. Is it any wonder John 
Steinbrunner and the American public, not 
to mention the rest erf the world are confused
and frustrated by President Reagans stance 
on nuclear weapons? He says he wants 
peace, yet ...
Instead of escalation, Steinbrunner sug
gested a scenario where both the Soviet 
Union and the United States would believe 
the Command, Control, Communication, 
and Intelligence (OI) system of the other to 
be impregnable enough to preclude a pre
emptive strike. Turning his imagination 
into reality would require innovations in 
C?I operations on both sides of the fence, 
and an end to evil rhetoric.
An outline of a possible C3I that would be 
an improvement to detente rather than an 
impediment was discussed in the lecture by 
Mr. Charles Zraket. The current system 
does not have survival-robustness, Zraket 
said. The chain of authority would have to 
be strengthened, susceptibility to electronic 
jamming would have to be reduced, com
munication would have to be reliable and 
two-way, and more down-to-earth advice 
available. The full details of his lecture 
should soon be available in the CMU audio
visual department: They taped the entire 
lecture and questions afterwards.
One thing you wont find on the tape, 
which is conspicuous by its absence, is any 
mention of Why the Generals Cant Com
mand, Newsweek, February 14. It would 
have been an ideal illustration for Zrakets 
argument in favor of more efficient organi
zation. Perhaps he missed that issue. Zraket 
was a little more hawkish than Stein
brunner, but they agreed on basic issues. 
The U.S. needs to work on its C3I system, 
limited nuclear war is an idea best limited to 
fantasy, nuclear weapons are here to stay. 
The only rational alternative is to deal with 
it in the best possible problem solving 
manner.
Nuclear war is a very remote possibility, 
yet, with the potential for world destruction 
just a few words away, you cant ignore it. 
But, look at it this way: with so many people 
lining their pockets, who is going to kill the
YOUR CHANCE TO COME TO LONDON
Jwnior-yaar programs. Postgraduate diplomas, Ons-ysar Master's dsgrsst and Research opportunities in the social sciences are oWared at the London School of Economics and Political Science.
The wide range of subjects includesAccounting 8 Finonce, Actuarial Science. Anthropology, Business Studies. Economics. Econometrics, Economic History. European Studies, Geography. Government. Industrial Relations. International History, International Relations, low, Monogement Science, Operational Research, Philosophy. Planning Studies, Population Studies. Politics, Sea-Use Policy. Social Administration, Social Work, Sociology, Social Psychology. Statistical and Mathematical Sciences, Systems Analysis.
LSE
Appitcalttx blanks Ironi
Morn lfhlrar, I.*.*., Houghton StrMl, London WC1. 
i itali wtwtbw |unior yw or poetgre*ete
London School of Economics and Political Science
Monday - Friday to 11 PM
WE DELIVER
Americas Best Dressed Sandwich
Delivery FREE With This Coupon 
682-2210 682-2210
golden goose? Its hard to blame them for 
taking advantage of a situation that Stein
brunner said is inherent in the dynamics of 
the country. He was responding to a ques
tion probing the roots of Americas fear of 
Russia. Its not Reagans fault, he said. 
Its the fault of the political system. Does 
that mean the system should be changed? "It 
would be like trying to change the gravity 
constant to reduce energy consumption, he 
quipped. But he said seriously, The politi
cal system is effective now--it picks leaders 
who embody the principles of the mass 
majority. And the problem wont change in
the forseeable future.
So, I guess we are destined for nx* 
the pockets of some, and continued 
rhetoric in the press. But what if heSVt 
about the American voting populace;
A tangential note along that line 
same issue of the Post-Gazette 
announced the lecture ran a front pag^ 
headed Addicts relapses need notD 
failure. The final lecture in 
Security: Issues and Choices is this Th 
day at 4:30 in the Wherrett 
entitled: Extended Deterrence and Dei 
of NATO.
A bird and a boy enjoy Spring Break on the beach.
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
Edi t odral.TrjltG ailTr. otGGv
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh.
Beaver County 
Mon Valley 
Butler County
SCHOLARSHIP
The Carnegie-Mellon Pittsburgh Women's Clan Scholarship Awards commit-J 
tee will be interviewing women in order to select recipients for its 1983-8 
awards on Saturday, April t6, and on Monday evening, April 18, 1983.TN 
following criteria will be used:
1. Student must be in her Junior year in 1982-83. The award will be applied to the
September tuition at CMU during her Senior year.
2. Student must be in the upper one-fourth of her class.
3. Student should participate in some school activities.
4. Student should have a letter of recommendation from the departmental advisor
other faculty member.
Student's financial need and aid will also be taken into consideration. Student must 
have already filed a 1983-84 Financial Aid Form (FAF) or Pennsylvania State Grant/ 
Federal Student Aid form, or have a 1982-83 FAF on file in Financial Aid Off*-
Scholarship applications are now available in the Financial Aid Office. Dead I 
line for submission of the application is April 14,1983. Applications 
returned to the Financial Aid Office, Warner Hall 210, at which time the stud^l
should set up an appointment for her interview.
. ji
The Carnegie-Mellon Pittsburgh Women's Clan is comprised of Alunn^J 
Carnegie-Mellon University. They have maintained an active interest inr 
activities and have been very generous in their support of time and activit I

---------------------------------------------------

_________________________Sports.
arry Anderson, Point Park assistant, named as replacement
aloney axed from head B.B. post
JG REINSTEIN
Staffwriter
I On the Friday afternoon before spring 
most students are thinking about a 
of relaxation, if they arent half way 
ome or to Florida yet. However, that Frihy brought about a major change in the 
,s Basketball program here. Head 
ach Dave Maloney was fired and he was 
laced by the assistant basketball coach 
[ assistant dean of students of Point Park 
ollege, Larry D. Anderson
unpopular decision was made by 
Jetic Director James E. Banner after a lot 
[thought. In the past five years all indicai showed that the program was slipping, 
n-lost record, league standings, and other 
adstics, Banner replied when asked why 
iloney was let go. "The key to winning in 
tileries is attitude. It is tough to recover 
om a losing situation, recovery is an attide problem, Banner added. Banner also 
that the basketball program was slip
ping in relation to the other varsity pro
grams at CMU.
Coach Maloney departs after serving 
CMU for eight years as head basketball 
coach. I have no regrets at all, and I am not 
bitter; this is a great college. I have had the 
opportunity to work with quality young 
people all the years I have been here. My 
players, assistant coaches, and I have always 
represented this place, Maloney said.
He leaves with quite a few accomplish
ments under his belt. In only his second year 
at Camegie-Mellon, Maloney rewrote the 
record books by leading his team to an 18-6 
record while capturing the first Presidents 
Athletic Conference Championship for 
CMU since it joined the league in 1972. Not 
only did his team take part in a NCAA 
post-season tournament, but Maloney was 
named Pittsburghs Basketball Writers 
Coach of the Year and he received the TriState Basketball Officials Sportmanship 
Award. Two years later (1978-1979) he was
voted Dapper Dan Charities Honoree.
Maloney was the winningest coach at 
CMU since 1921. He posted a winning per
centage of .607 (68-44) in the conference and 
.508 (87-84) overall. He finished first or 
second in the conference four out of the 
eight seasons.
Members of the team rose in support of 
their coach upon hearing of his dismissal. 
The most outspoken had been sophomore 
point guard Greg Gabriel. Coach Maloney 
accomplished the job that the university 
wants. He ran a class operation and organi
zation, Gabriel said. Banner made a poor 
decision. He acted contrary to the university 
policy. He wants to equate academics and 
athletics but he wouldnt put money into 
the program, he added. As of right now, 
Gabriel is thinking about not playing for 
the Tartans in the upcoming 83-84 seson.
Captain Carl Mulac, who is a three year 
veteran of varsity play, agreed that it was a continued on page 24
Larry Anderson comes to CMU with plenty 
of credentials, including overseas coaching.
ive
photo by Gene Yonish
Maloney was another victim of the what have you done for me lately syndrome.
fajor League Baseball Preview
By DOUG REINSTEIN
Tartan Staffwriter
In the past week, the firing of Head Bas
ketball Coach Dave Maloney has become a 
heavily debated issue. Was it justified? 
Before passing judgement, lets look at it a
^ little more closely.
There are two sides to the
ip story, the one seen through the 
eyes of Athletic Director James 
E. Banner, and the other from the viewpoint 
of Coach Maloney. As one would expect, 
they vary tremendously.
Banner is the athlectic director at CMU 
and he is in charge of numerous programs. 
He strives to keep them all operating at 
maximum efficiency. In turn, that means he 
has to make changes if and when he feels 
they are necessary. He chose to make a 
change in head coaches because the pro
gram had been slipping for the past five 
years.
Now Maloneys side. Granted, the Tar
tans record has fallen continuously for the 
past five years. But, looking more closely, it 
has fallen from 11-9 (78-79) to 11-11 (79-80 
and 80-81) to 10-11 (81-82) to 6-15 (82-83). 
Agreed, this past year was a disappointment, 
but his record fell only two games in four 
years. They fell from a championship sea
son two years before that (76-77), when he 
led his team to the Presidents Athletic Con
ference Championship, as well as receiving 
two other personal accolades.
Banner has said the attitude became a 
major factor. He specifically stated, It is 
tough to recover from a losing situation, 
recovery is an attitude problem. How does 
this sound for an attitude problem: a team 
loses eleven straight, but instead of throwing 
the towel in, they bounce back and win five 
of their last eight, this included a game that 
went into five overtimes. Sounds like a posi
tive attitude.
The firing of a head basketball coach is a 
major move at any level. Dave Maloney is 
not Dean Smith or Terry Holland, but he 
doesnt have Michael Jordan or Ralph 
Sampson playing for him either. Maloney 
coached the players, but more importantly 
he coached the poeple he had on his team. 
He built some very close ties with his players 
and had a good relationship with them. 
Evidence for this can be seen in the players 
negative reactions to his dismissal.
At this level of basketball, the best indica
tor of performance is win-loss record in the 
conference. Maloneys total conference 
record was 68-44 (.607), his record in the 
conference before this year was 63-35 (.663), 
and his record over the past four years was 
38-48 (.441).
Outside the conference, CMU has played continued on page 23
adres picked to suprise in tricky NL West
JEFFREY BERGMAN
rlan Sports Editor
This is the second in a series of four prefor the upcoming 1983 baseball sea11 This weeks division is the NL West. 
rst place is really up for grabs between 
lr teanis: the Atlanta Braves, Los Angeles 
^rs, San Francisco Giants, and San 
e8 Padres. Im going with the young 
es to take the crown past a rebuilding 
squad.
San Diego Padres If geniuses do exist, 
c  illiams has got to be one of them. He 
a bunch of rookie pitchers no one 
*ught could ever make up a quality staff 
turned them into the fifth best in the Sue.
R0stly responsible for the 3.52 team 
A' were hurlers Tim Lollar (16-9,3.13), 
*C Show (10-6. 2.64), and stopper Luis 
Un (9-5, 2.03, 15 saves). All three fol
lowed the Williams principle of not issuing 
walks. Veteran John Montefusco (10-11, 
4.00) made a strong comeback last year to 
become a reliable starter.
This year GM Jack McKeon hopes by 
trading away dead weight like Juan Eichelberger, and giving youngster Dave Dravecky 
(5-3, 2.57) and veteran Ed Whitson (4-2,3.26) 
the chance to pitch, his starting rotation will 
become strong enough to win the division. 
Gary Lucas (1-10, 3.24, 16) is the other 
stopper in the bullpen.
At the All-Star break last year, San Diego 
was in second place 50-36. However, a 31-45 
second half showed the Padres what was 
wrong. What they needed was a righthanded power hitter, an established first 
baseman, and stronger leadership. They got 
all that for $6.5 million in the name of Steve 
Garvey. Garvey (16, 86, .282) should give 
Williams the added punch to take the
division.
Not only will Garvey help on the offense, 
but his defensive skills should increase the 
fielding percentage of the rest of the infield. 
This will include three speedsters who are 
not known for power, but hit for high aver
ages: Juan Bonilla (0,8, .280) at second, Luis 
Salazar (8, 62, .242), and shortstop Garv 
Templeton (6,64, .247). All had off years lasc 
year and rebounds for all look promising.
The meat of the order will be comprised 
of all-star catcher Terry Kennedy (21, 97, 
.295) and lefty center fielder Ruppert Jones 
(12, 61, .283). The rest of the outfield should 
consist of Gene Richards (3, 28, .286) and 
Sixto Lezcano (16, 84, .289), but young 
burners Alan Wiggins (1,15, .256) and Tony 
Gwynn (1, 17, .289) will challenge.
Strengths: catching, outfield depth, 
bullpen, and overall hitting capabilities.
Weaknesses: depth at catching, starting
pitching, and infield.
Prediction: San Diego needs an injuryfree year to win big, especially Kennedy. The 
bench is not that strong so youll probably 
see .500 at bat for the starters. This could 
hurt them down the stretch, but the rest of 
the division has the same problem.
2. Los Angeles Dodgers The Boys erf 
Summer sure blew it last year, didnt they? 
Perennial powers Cincinnati and Houston 
faltered, which many thought would leave 
the door open for the former world champs. 
What happened? LaSordas men let a team 
who won less 90 games, and at one point lost 
19 out of 21, take the division. 
Explanations?
The first excuse was that the Dodgers are 
rebuilding. This will also be the excuse for 
this year. When Los Angeles won the World 
Championship in 1981, they had seven regoontmued on page 22
Verdict made on Maloney case

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanApril 5, 1983
Rebuilding process to hurt Dodgers' chances
continued from page 21
ulars who were older than 32. Since then, 
GM A1 Campams has rebuilt this team one 
by one. In 1982, Rookie of the Year Steve Sax 
(4, 47, .282) replaced Davey Lopes at second; 
1983, though, will have more changes. 
Two of the members of L.A.s perennial
power source, Ron Cey and Steve Garvey, 
are gone. In their place will be two youngs
ters who both accumulated incredible 
minor league stats, but are unproven in the 
big leagues. Second-year man Mike Mar
shall (14, 58, .388 in AAA) will be in right, 
moving M.V.P. candidate Pedro Guerrero
(32, 100, .304) to third and Greg Brock (44, 
138, .310 in AAA) will have the dubious 
distinction of replacing Garvey at first.
L.A. will have to live or die with these 
changes. They might die quite a bit before 
living.
The second excuse for the Dodgers lastIM swimming crown goes to KKG and Rejects
The 1983 IM swimming meet was held 
before spring break and the Swim Team 
Rejects and KKG used their wins in the 
medley relay to catapult them to the title in 
the mens and womens divisions. Individ
ual winners included Kevin Hartman in the 
50 free, Bruce Rutherford in the 100 IM, 
Tom Morgan in the 50 fly, Dave Dunkle in 
the 100 free, Mike Grolemund in the 50
back, Tom Morgan in the 50 breast, and 
Dave Dunkle again in the 200 free.
Other champions crowned recendy were 
PKT-A in bowling, PLP in the majors 
racquetball, and Math Dept, and Excitable 
Boys in minors racquetball.
Sports still in season are backgammon, 
bridge, handball, call pool, table tennis, and 
co-rec badminton. Please play all games as
IMMIGRATION AND CITIZENSHIP LAW 
ENTERTAINMENT LAW 
General Practice 
NO CHARGE FOR INITIAL 
CONSULTATION 
OAKLAND OFFICE LOCATION
ROBERT A. CREO 
GARYS. STEINER
_____Attorneys at Law______
4606 Winthrop Street (Second Floor) 
(Off South Craig Street)
Call anytime: 683-5515 or 81-4130 
Appointments Available 
Mon. through Sat. 9 a.m. to 8:30p.m. I
11  : --------------------- 1 i - Gammmmmm i mmmmmmmmmmmm
scheduled and report all winners to your 
commissioners.
Foul shooting commissioner Bob 
McNail, 681-1182, would like all partici
pants to hand in the results of the first 100 
shots. Today is the last day to shoot your 
fouls for those who havent.
IM fencing will take place April 12 and 
13. Tuesday at 5 p.m. will be the mens and 
womens foil while Wednesday at 5 p.m. 
will be the team competition. All entries are 
due Thursday, April 7 at 4:30 in the 
Womens Athletic Office.
Softball season has begun with games 
starting yesterday. Remember, you must 
have ten players to start the game.
Commissioners are still needed for team 
badminton, track, frisbee, and co-rec table 
tennis. If youre interested, you know where 
to go.
year was that they were last in the league 
saves, with 28. Ace reliever Steve Howe/] 
2.08, 13) might have had good stats b, 
suffered from an alcohol problem \ 
turned him into an inconsistent perform 
With buddy Terry Foster gone this year 
Adanta, Howe will have to carry the 1 
which could again give Lasorda headache 
The starting rotation is set with Fernand 
Valenzuela (19-13, 2.87), Jerry Reuss (18-1 
3.11), Bob Welch (16-11,3.36), an injuiyfo 
Burt Hooton (4-7, 4.03), and either 
Stewart (9-8, 3.81) or Pat Zachry (6-9,405 
Besides Dusty Baker (23, 88, .300), the 
of the lineup is surprisingly suspect. Shot 
stop Bill Russel (3, 46, .274), center fid 
Ken Landreaux (7, 50, .284), and catch 
Mike Sdosia (5, 38, .219) all had off 
and need to improve if the Dodgers want 
win 90. If not, Campanis has rookies Dai 
Sax (12, 75, .317 in AAA), Steves brothe 
Candy Maldonado (24, 96, .301 in AAA 
and Dave Anderson (5, 75, .343 in AAj 
waiting in the wings.
Strengths: starting pitching, pow 
depth, and speed.
Weaknesses: bullpen, catching, 
defense left side.
Prediction: It should be interesting watc 
ing L.A. to see if Brock and Marshall 
continued on page
vea
All Danskin 
15% of! 
Now At 
CMU Bookstore
Allegheny Womens Centeran out patient medical clinic offering
* abortion counseling * free pregnancy tests
* personal counseling * birth control services
 gynecological care
362-2920 
Pregnancy Testing Center201 S. Craig Street (Oakland) Pittsburgh, PA 15213
(412) 687-TEST
Both centers i# be open daily 1 pregnancy teste and counseling.
Allegheny Womens Center
Medical Center East Building 
Penthouse Right (8th floor) 
211 North Whitfield Stred 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206
Factortr rtctrytowt 
kei DEFENSE OF MftTO
Thursday, April 7 Wherrett Room 4:30 PM
Ambassador Jonathan Dean (Ret), Carnegie Endowment 
for International Peace 
Dr. Kevin Lewis, The Rand Corporation
EDCarnegie-Mel Ion University

---------------------------------------------------

April 5, 1983The TartanPage 23
>3/7 Francisco and A tlanta to rely on bullpens
^ from page 22
uce. However, interesting does not win 
ennant. A bad start and a weak bullpen 
keep this team from the top.
San Francisco Giants Manager Frank 
,inson should be given a medal of honor, 
only for taking a seemingly mediocre 
n t0 two games away from a tide, but 
for keeping his sanity while the press 
the fans knocked him left and right for 
first part of the year, 
t one point, the Giants were 19-27 and in 
place. However, with the help of a 
ng pitching staff, the men from the Bay 
a played at a 43-24 clip from the all-star 
jk and ended up just behind the Braves, 
s pitching staff should be even better this 
The big addition is Mike Krukow (13- 
312), a starting pitcher who performed 
sistently well for the Phillies in 1982. 
jkow will join second year men Atlee 
mmaker (12-8, 4.11), Bill Laskey (13-12, 
), and Fred Breining (11-6, 3.08) in the 
ting rotation.
Tie bullpen is one of the best in the 
rue with Greg Minton (10-4, 1.83, 30 
s)and Gary LaVelle (10-7,2.67) coming
o put out the fires.
fhe major doubt that many have with the 
ints is that two very important players are 
ie from last years team, first baseman 
gie Smith and cheerleader and hero Joe 
rgan. Robinsons plan for reconstrucwill have pinch hitting specialist 
ane Kuiper (0,17, .280) at second, veteran 
rel Evans (16, 61, .256) moving from 
dto first, and Tom OMalley (2,27, .275)
at third. What San Francisco is losing in this 
deal is power, defense and leadership. Not a 
good trade off.
The Giants offense revolves around two 
main cogs, outfielders Chili Davis (19, 76, 
.261) and Jack Clark (27, 103, .274). Davis is 
the key one because as lead-off hitter he must 
keep getting on base like last year. Key two, 
Clark, will have to compile the same stats as 
in 1982 but will have a tougher time because 
he wont have a dangerous Smith batting in 
front of him.
Mediocre shortstop Johnnie LeMaster (2,
30, .216) will probably be back because no 
one will challenge him. Left field will prob
ably fall into the hands of Jeff Leonard (9, 
49, .259) but Jim Wholford (2, 25, .256) and 
Joel Youngblood (3,29, .240) will challenge. 
Catching chores will be given to platoon
men Milt May (9, 39, .263) and Bob Brenly 
(4, 15, .283).
Strengths: starting pitching, bullpen, 
power, outfield defense.
Weaknesses: infield defense, shortstop, 
speed, lack of leadership.
Prediction: The Giants will win with 
great pitching but the loss of Morgan and 
Smith down the stretch will be felt, leaving 
San Francisco near .500.
4. Atlanta Braves Question: How did 
Adanta win NL West last year? Answer: 
Luck. Thats right, luck. It just so happened 
in the same year every player in the starting 
lineup had one of the best years of their 
career. This offensive punch helped to cover 
up a very weak pitching staff. Its just like 
the 1979 California Angels. They won the 
division with 88 wins but stumbled the next
year and finished in 6th place.
Its true that if the starting rune stay 
healthy and repeat, their stats Atlanta will 
win some, but thats highly unlikely.
The big O of Adanta is led by two streak 
hitters, MVP Dale Murphy (36, 109, .281) 
and 3rd baseman Bob Homer (32, 97, .261). 
When these two stumble, like in last August, 
Adanta stumbles.
Atlanta stumbles because their starting 
pitching is quite abysmal. Admittedly 44- 
year-old Phil Niekro (17-4, 3.61) had a great 
year, but he must repeat it after looking at 
the rest of the rotation. The big four are Rick 
Mahler (9-10, 4.21), Craig McMurty (17-8, 
3.81 in AAA), Pete Falcone (8-10, 3.84), and 
Rick Camp (11-13, 3.65). Ugh!
Manager Joe Torre will have to be saved continued on page 24Judgement reversed in favor of Maloney
continued from page 21
its share of tough opponents. Starting off 
the season against NAIA and Division I 
schools such as Slippery Rock, Westminster, 
and Pitt-Johnstown, doesnt help your 
record. Its tough to build confidence in a 
young team when you play bigger schools 
and a majority of your games away. The 
Tartans were 1-6 before the conference sche
dule started.
In 1975, not only did Maloney enter his
first year as head coach, but it was Banners 
first year as athletic director. Banner is the 
one who hired him when he produced a 6-14 
record in his first year and he was the one
who let him go after he produced a 6-15 
record this past year. Banner wasnt really 
interested with the records of head basket
ball coaches before he arrived at CMU. A 
quick look at Maloneys predecessors shows 
they boasted powerful overall records of 8- 
56, 9-27, 33-54, and 173-208, just to name a 
few. Not what you would call a basketball 
dynasty.
It is fairly safe to assume no players from 
CMU will go on and play professional bas
ketball. Therefore, it is important for 
student-athletes to concentrate on their stu
dies. Coach Maloney has stressed this point 
in his years at CMU. How many other
coaches can say all of their players, except 
for one, have graduated on time? Larry And
erson, the new head coach, seems to stress 
this area, also.
Coach Maloney had 13 of his 15 players 
returning for the 83-84 campaign. Some of 
the younger players were coming into their 
own during the last few games. In the final 
analysis, coaches should not be dismissed 
unless there needs to be a major change in 
the program. The CMUs mens basketball 
program was not in need of a major change.
Judgement reversed in favor of Coach 
Dave Maloney.
Has CMU
Got You
By The Balls?
This is your BIG CHANCE! Finally you can make your complains known to students who 
^nt do anything more about it than you can. Academic Affairs is once again running their 
ttrfamous ARP campaign. Voice your opinions about professors, classes, TAs, requirements, 
facilities, computers and departmental social functions. Then do one of the following:
a) Return your form to the Academic Affairs Box at The Skibo Information Desk.
b) Drop this form into the campus mail.
c) Come by the Student Senate Office.
funded by your student activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24The TartanApril 5, 1983
Anderson enthusiastic about new chance
continued from page 21
mistake and, A lot of people think it was. 
How can we have a losing attitude when 
we lose 11 straight and then we come back 
and win 5 out of our last 8, he replied. The 
other programs dont compare to us, espe
cially when we travel, this is a reflection on 
the coach, the senior added. He closed by 
saying that the coach recruited the best peo
ple, and he never played on a team that was 
this close.
Pete Bennett, the only junior on the team 
said, The timing was real bad, Friday at 
4:00 before spring break. The situation was 
handled real badly with respect to dignity. 
Bennett noted that they were a young team, 
they played most of their games on the road, 
and if they were really bad, they never would 
have come back to win 5 out of 8. I was 
feeling positive about next year with 13 out 
of 15 players returning, he remarked.
Sophomore guard Herb Sendek replied, 
He had strong moral principles and he was 
full of class. He was always enthusiastic. 
Besides knowing his Xs and Os, he had a 
great influence on the players as people. He 
could be successful at a Division 1 school.
Even some freshmen had notheing but 
praise for their coach. Bob Kukowski was 
surprised that the coach was let go. He kept 
in mind the academic aspects of school. He 
took everything into consideration, he said. 
We were young and the players made the 
difference, but we got the experience from 
Coach Maloney, he added.
Larry Anderson comes to CMU knowing 
full well that the players are very disturbed 
by the decision. Anderson, however, under
stands the situation he is about to take over. 
He feels this is in no way aimed specifically 
at him and doesnt expect any problems. It 
is a natural reaction to feel that way, they
should stick up for their coach because he 
has established a good rapport with them, 
and in a lot of situations they have built up 
an allegiance to him, Anderson stated 
when asked about the feeling of the players 
toward him.
He is very enthusiastic about the oppor
tunity. He knows how to treat people and is 
ready to accept the challenge. I believe there 
is an outstanding nucleus here and we estab
lish a winning tradition and attitude, he 
replied. I also believe in excellence in all 
areas of college and to represent yourself in 
all ways, he added.
Anderson has a number of basketball 
years behind him. He has played basketball 
in junior high, high school, and college, as 
well as being a coach for the past ten years. 
I am pleased to have a coach with Larrys 
qualifications and background head our 
varsity program, said Banner. Larry has
distinguished himself in Pittsburgh 
player, coach, and an administrator.
The new coach has had other coadj 
responsibilities. He has attended $e^ 
national tournament while travelinj 
Israel and Peru. He was head coach of 
Allegheny Mountain AAU team (0^ 
Cultural Center) since 1979. He has 
against the Canadian Junior Ob 
aquad as well as a couple of teams from 
Dominican Republic.
Maloney noted that the President 
Cyert had been very good to him and 
family. Maloney has been offered a job 
the academic community here at C\iU 
Maloneys eight years here, he finish 
once, 2nd three times, 3rd once, 4th once, 
once, and 6th once. This year the Tart 
were 6-15.
Only time shall tell if the right dedsi 
was made.
Astros and Reds suffer from lack of talent
continued from page 23
by a bullpen led by Gene Garber (8-10,2.34, 
30 saves), long man Steve Bedrosian (8-6, 
2.42, 11 saves), and newcomer Terry Forster 
(5-6, 3.04, 3 saves). A good crew that will 
definitely be overworked.
The rest of the Braves lineup will have 
Bruce Benedict (3, 44, .246) catching, sure
handed Chris Chambliss (20, 86, .270) at 
first, Glenn Hubbard (9, 59, .248) at second, 
error prone Rafael Ramirez (10, 52, .278), 
last years reject Brett Buder in left (0, 7, 
.217), and Claudell Washington (16, 80, 
.266) in right.
Strengths: bullpen, power, defense on 
right side of infield, scoring capabilities.
Weaknesses: starting rotation, depth, 
defense on left side of infield.
Prediction: injuries will beset this team in 
83 and cause an early exit from the pennant 
race. Even Chief Nockahoma wont be able 
to keep the pitchings team E. R. A. below 
3.90.
5. Houston Astros WTien the Astros won 
the division in 1980 and half of it in 1981, 
they won with great pitching. In 1982 the 
pitching was just good, 3.42 team E. R. A., 
and the Astros ended up below .500.
The starters, except for inconsistent Bob 
Knepper (5-15, 4.45), were for the most part 
effective. This includes Joe Niekro (17-12, 
2.47, 2nd in the league), Nolan Ryan (16-12, 
3.16), Don Sutton until he was traded to 
Milwaukee, Vem Ruhle (9-13, 3.93), and 
Mike LaCoss (6-6, 2.90).
However, when we look towards the pen
Natural, Distinctive and Totally YOU! 
ft#
PRECISION
HAIRCUTCOLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-RLOW STYLE) 
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR
ALL STYLES 
S7b00
&9mMFUJIIMB."eaeoNMwounee
we find disaster with a capital D. The big 
three, Joe Sambito (0-0, 0.71), Dave Smith 
(5-4, 3.84), and Frank LaCorte (1-5, 4.48), 
suffered from injuries and just lousy pitch
ing. 1983 doesnt look any more promising 
because Sambito and Smith are still hurting 
and GM A1 Rosen hasnt traded for a 
replacement.
Manager Bob Lillis must then hope for a 
rebound from his Punch and Judy offense. 
The biggest changes this year are the acqui
sition of center fielder Omar Moreno (3,44, 
.245) from the Pirates and the naming of 
rookie Bill Doran (1,65, .302) to play second, 
moving veteran Phil Gamer (13,83, .274) to 
third. What this will hopefully do is add 
some more speed to the top of the order so 
RBI men Jose Cruz (9,68, .275), Ray Knight 
(6, 70, .294), and catcher Alan Ashby (12,49, 
.257) can do just that
Dickie Thon (3, 36, .276) was a surprise 
shortstop and will return while Terry Puhl 
(8, 15, .262) was just the opposite in left but 
will probably be back there.
Strengths: starting pitching, defense, 
speed, catching.
Weaknesses: bullpen, power.
Prediction: The Astros should be better if 
Moreno and Doran elide. However, the 
bullpen is going to kill them and their 
attendence. 74 wins.
6. Cincinnati Reds GM Dick Wagner sure 
pulled a fast one on all the prognosticators 
last year. Just because the Reds are the Reds 
it doesnt mean that they can replace an 
outfield of Foster, Collins, and Griffey. The 
thing that really makes me mad, though, is 
that the Reds changed the colors of their hats 
from the traditional red to white with a red
man
C. It looks like something out erf 
twenties.
Anyway, Cincinnati will be just asbor 
as they were last year when they were las 
the league in runs scored. The only hope 
this year is that rookie, speedster, left fid 
Gary Redus (24, 93, .333 in AAA) will 
lyze this dead offense as the lead-off 
he can awaken the sleeping bats of 
Driessen (17, 57, .269), Cesar Cedeno(8, 
.289), and Johnny Bench (13,38, .258), 
ager Russ Nixon might be successful, 
be tough, though, since the big three 
have been sleeping for years.
Dave Concepcion (5,53, .287), Ron Of 
(9, 47, .260), and Eddie Milner (4,31 
make up three-fourths of a solid mid 
The only part that is deficient is catdi 
There Alex Trevino (1, 33, .251) was 
the reigns but showed no dynamic abi 
and could be out of a job.
The pitching is above average in 
peoples eyes. Underrated Mario Soto(l 
2.79), Bruce Berenyi (9-18, 3.36), andFi 
Pastore (8-13, 3.97) are quality men a 
ters while Tom Hume (2-6, 3.11,17 
and Joe Price (3-4, 2.85) are in the bull] 
Beyond them, the Reds are pretty weal
Strengths: defense (except third base 
catching), bullpen, speed.
Weaknesses: depth all around, po 
catching, inexperience.
Prediction: From the looks of sp 
training, Mr. Redus was not all thatiflif 
sive. Besides, Nixon is relying on 
aging, overrated veterans to knock in 
which they failed to do last year and will 
year. Help!
Mon.. Tun.. Wed. 10-7 
Thun.. Fn. IM 
Sa. *4M7 350O
NO APPOINTMENTS UNISEX HAH SALON
2)7 Atwood Sucet coon ihr ttnct fron Oakland toi Office
Don't take things home you don't need!
This summer leave books, bedding, winter clothing, furniture, 
etc. with us!
PITTSIJMM13HSTORAG1
yg.c niil
teThR)M c.j sMoeO 2: 
B4R:4,:

---------------------------------------------------

April 5, 1983The TartanPage 25
Domestics12 oz. & 16 oz. cans (& quarts)
STROHS
10WENBRAU Lt., Ok.,- bottles
MICHEIOBBUDWEISERMILLER
OLD ENGLISH 800 
SCHLITZ MALT 
IRON CITY 
ERLANGER-bottles 
GENESSEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS 
PABST 
SCHLITZ
PEARL (Texas)bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PIELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALEbottles 
COLT 45 
MILLER LITE MICHEIOB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHT
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBS
Steak  Corned Beef  Tuna  TurkeySANDWICHES
Haddock  Cod  Ground Steak  Sousage 
Veol  Chuck  Chicken PormesanSPECIALTY ITEMS
Steak Subs  Fresh Cut French Fries 
Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments 
Pizza served till 3 am
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICESServing beer Sunday I pm-2 am Imports. Cans. Quarts, Draft Pitchers Mugs Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers HEINEKEN  MOLSON ALE  MICHEIOB STROHS  MILLERS  SCHLITZ MALT
One different 16 oz 6 pk 
featured eoch weekSTROHS  ROILING ROCK  SCHLITZ OLD ENGLISH 800  SCHLITZ MALT  PABST
Imports
BECK'S It Ok - Germany 
BASS ALE - England 
HARP LAGER Irelond 
MOISON GOLDEN - Conodo 
HEINEKEN It M -Holtond 
LOWENBRAUGif "ion,
0 KEEFE ALE Conodo 
PUSHER URQUELL - Czech 
KIRIN Japon
MACKESSON STOUT - N flood
ST PAUtl GIRL - Germony 
DOS EQUIS XX Meiico 
JOHN COURAGE England 
WATNETS England 
CARIS8ERG ELEPHANT Den 
CARISBERG ROY AIE Denmork 
CARIS8ERG OARK Denmark 
TSINGTAO Ch.no 
HACKER PSCHORR Germony 
IABATT S Conodo 
MURPHY - Irelond
OLD VIENNA LAGER - Conodo COOPER 4 SON - Austrolia 
5S LAGER-Conodo FOSTER S LAGER Austrolio
Open 9om-3:45am Sun Thurs 9am-4:45am Fri-Sat .Coll 621 7388 or 621 1185 3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) Pgh PA 5213NOT DOG SHOPS, INC
Mens tennis trounces W & J
photo by Gene Yonish
iin Wayne Cutler won two matches last Thursday against Washington & Jefferson in 
singles and doubles. The team destroyed the Presidents 8-1 in a whitewash.olf tees it up for '83
am captain John Venzon (SR, Hamity, Pa) leads the Tartan golfers into 
against Hiram, Case Western Reserve 
he Bethany Bisons at the Speidel Invilal Wednesday April 6. Venzon, a twoitarter who shoots in the 70s, will be 
i by Paul Bangor (SO, Beaver, Pa), 
Monroe (SO, W. Chester, NY), and
Rob Oppenheim (SO, Pittsburgh, Pa). 
Youngsters expected to contribute are Matt 
Bailey, Pete Bombeck, Mike Murphy and 
Adam Susser.
Head coach Don Poluszeks squad will 
play in the PAC Invitational April 9 before 
taking on Westminster April 11.
By WAYNE I. CUTLER
Tartan Staffwriter
The Camegie-Mellon tennis team started 
the season off on the right foot by suffocat
ing Washington and Jefferson 8-1. Coach 
Mark Bush was unsure about the potential 
of this years team as the #1, 5, and 6 players 
from last year had either graduated or were 
unable to try out. Obviously from Thurs
days performance Bush can sleep easier.
At the head of the line-up, senior captain 
Wayne Cuder fought back after loosing the 
first set 6-2 and strove back to win the next 
two 6-2, 6-0.
The cool and collective Pete Weber at #2 
singles put away his opponent 6-4, 6-2.
Chaulking up two bagels (6-0, 6-0 score) 
was sophomore Steve Mayback. Maybeck is 
the most consistent player on the team and 
has improved dramatically since last year.
Starting in his first collegiate match, 
freshman Ed Martin fought hard for two 
long hours to win by the hairline score of
7-5, 6-4. Coach Bush feels that Martin has 
four promising years ahead of him. Says 
Bush, Eds a tough competitor and with a 
little work on his serve he can be at the head 
of the line-up.
The only loss was suffered at #5. Senior 
Tom LaRitz lost 6-4, 6-0.
At #6 singles was another youngster and a 
good one indeed. Greg Orsag substituted for 
his brother Mark, who had an unfortunate 
accident last week, had no trouble downing 
his foe 6-2, 6-1.
CMU then paired up to play doubles and 
swept all three. Defending PAC doubles 
champ Wayne Cuder found a new partner, 
Steve Maybeck. They proved complemen
tary breezing through the first set 6-2 while 
holding off all late challenges in the second 
set, winning 7-5.
Playing into the sunset was the #2 doubles 
pair comprised of Ed Martin and Pete 
Weber. They inched by W&J 6-4, 7-5.
Closing out the match was the #3 doubles 
team erf Dave Rim and Greg Orsag. Both 
players are freshmen t and have a lot erf 
potential. Gregs greatest asset is his over
powering serve and Daves is his consistent
groundstrokes. The combination proved to 
be suitable winning 6-1, 7-5.
The tennis team hosts the University of 
Pittsburgh today at 3:30 and then leave for 
weekend play at John Carroll and Case 
Western Reserve.
Track squad 
wins opener
By JOHN McGOWEN 
and ARTHUR MUZIK
Special for the Tartan
The CMU track and field team opened its 
season with an awesome 103 to 40 victory 
extended the Tartans winning streak to 36, 
under coach Gary Meckley.
Outstanding performances were turned 
in by Ivan Juzang-long jump; Nick Bellpole vault; Jim Rodgers-triple jump and 
high jump; Joe Honse-javelin; Mike Killen110 high hurdles; Bob Krause-400 meters 
and 400 intermediate hurdles; Kevin 
Cureton-100 meters and 200 meters; Kevin 
Brewer and Chris Shafer-5000 meters; 400 
meter relay -Mike OShip, Ivan Juzang, 
George Ridley, and Bob Krause. Finally Art 
Muzik fought All-American Tom Held to 
draw in the 800 meter run.
I am very pleased with the teams perfor
mance, Coach Gary Meckley said after the 
victory. Tomorrow the team will take on 
Bethany and Washington and Jefferson at 
home.
Meckley enters the 1983 season looking to 
capture an unprecedented fifth straight PAC 
Champoinship. However, according to 
Meckley, it wont be easy especially without 
the services of junior All-American Mike 
Short Short will miss the 83 campaign 
with a foot injury.
Itll be a very close champoinship meet 
this year, said Meckley. "We have some 
good prospects but theyre young and 
untested at the collegiate level. It will take 
the maximum effort from the rookies and 
our seasoned veterans for us to repeat as 
champions.
Squirrel Uiill Byetiquc
$20 OFF any purchase of prescription lens 
and frames
$1000OFF nonprescription sunglasses
> Aiunxof^yivemu
V* T*Ffi5!SS5lOpliomi (412)422-5300
Summer 
Scholarships
$125,000
available!
Be a part of the Chautauqua experience this summer. Study and perform 
music, art, dance or theatre with the finest professionals in each specialty. 
After studies you'll enjoy concerts, opera, popular entertainers, plays and 
all the fun a lakeside resort implies.
The Chautauqua Summer Schools of Fine and Performing Arts provide 
full tern programs of intensive study with professionals such as Nathan 
Gottschalk in music (two levels of orchestra; voice and piano), Jean-Pierre 
Bonnefous in dance, Michael Kahn in theatre and Robert Gilson in art. 
Supplemental Master Classes provide additional training with outstanding 
visiting artists.
FESTIVAL ORCHESTRA AUDITIONS 
CHAUTAUQUA SCHOOL OF MUSIC 
APRIL 8, 1983  1:00-5:00 PM 
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS BLDG. ROOM 103 
CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY
For further information, and to be assured of a reserved audition time, 
call The Chautauqua Schools Office at (716)357-6200 Monday-Friday, 
9:00-5:00 EST. Applications for auditions will still be accepted on day 
of audition, but are contingent upon availability of openings.
CHAUTAUQUA THIS SUMMER
CALL NOW (716)357-6200
Chautauqua Institution 1563 Colonnade BUg. Chautauqua, NY 14722
THE LATEST IN ELECTRONIC GAMES/PINBALL MACHINES

---------------------------------------------------

T heTN w sppaN rNo fCnehn hgeiN ofSAY, Joe \ 
MlHlkC You' 20 
CouuO You&t 
me worntk puitr 
of mum faes? 
MlpUl 
hlvty p,
Fo^. A 
Secolo.
/ Hty gpPb w u Mp1ay you 
STftNO p,FOR A SECOND?
ALPJ6HC
by Jay Sele
O5Myna5 u3 hc5 t5yac tye m d
GOT A REALLY LOA/6 ROPE SO HED 
HAVE MORE ROOrt AA/DX COLID LET Wl-l 
TA/ EA51ER. ,________________________________,
VVWAT5 THAT HOWLIVG NCrtSE?
LEX WANTS TO COME IN/SIDE
TBAT3A600DIDEA
by Diane Thoi
Poindexter
ISpill..UlElL , X &65S SOME ?'ice
vteiuw muac owijp Httf 
Rtf we. 5t ine (Wtp 2ppy 
erf wi MW (MTfUecn^
Apcese Wig b8,8oa
KAR yinrr-^pw<tt>e._
FIKIAU-V. TM PEKFfcT ropVllJS OtMlTlOHS ....T UM 'A <Jwer (fooM, n nscoNNEcre> flluls 
f*ip a Foop amy...that's au. r Mea? ^
zui&tfsiittfrf
Funnies.
Joe Freshman by Mark Levi

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
issifieds
in love witli your legs last year watchtoumeys. When can I meet the rest? 
Greek tutoring wanted. Call 573-4384 
Lgs (MWF) and before 8:30 a.m. (TTh).
apartments for September now. Studios 
[grooms. Walking distance to university.
; and 621-2655.
it: I need to interview children of Pitts[ biue-collar and white-collar parents for an 
it term paper. Will pay. Should not take 
Ithan 20 minutes. Please call Catherine at
iig Carnival Committee is now acceptfplications for student ticket sellers during 
J The job is easy and pays $3.50 an hour. 
I'.STUDY NOT REQUIRED. To apply, 
kt an application at the Skibo Info Desk, 
ae for applications is noon, April 8. 
lessons. Classical, jazz, rock. Guitar 
$7 half-hour, $ 12/hr. If interested, call 
rinat 521-3694. 
r fingers Word processing and typing. Studemic rates, 241-1338.
term papaers, dissertations, letters, 
manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
ill Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534. 
apartment available to rent June 1. 
in Bloomfield, 2 miles from CMU. 
3 bedrooms, 2 porches, washer/dryer. 
2-9767.
Ys T1.oeG-.veT 
NMo.jro -rrvelV
N r(roj Doec.j 
lea1v .v x Mb-b 
I.v HrOOil 
elGvev)vr 
W UrOerF YrOc s(rb 
$sToiGG FoiN 9relp g1.MrOm
N P.hO.lc t.b 
wT.OO Lrar Fio 
N elFio-.veilV 
262-3950.
QTerr rronscends jqzz or any 
Ofher pigeonhole he nos re
defined rhe role of piono in 
conremporory music.
~ Leonora Feorher LA TIMES
Tuesday, April 12 
8 p.m.
S2:b022b0b,b0bxb0 
Pl G.Or .v v1r Uiz PFFeTr 
' g1.oar6 $827m :,7R8,00 
q*Fio-.veil6 7x2R000A Stephen Cloud Presentation
CALL 57 -2921
Word Pros 327-7268 Word processing specialists. 
Term papers, theses, resumes. Pick-up/delivery. 
Special Student Rates. Phone answers 24 hours. 
Summer, fall rentals: rooms are large, clean, 
sunny, carpeted and quiet in a coed house. Ten 
minutes from CMU. Three baths, two kitchens. 
For people that want high QPAs. $140-$190 & 
everything included. Call Mr. Whalen at 683- 
2589.
Storage Dont take things home this summer that 
you dont need! Leave beddings, books, winter
clothing etc-----with Pitt Summer Storage. Convienient Campus Pickup Pts. Call soon, Pick up 
day April 13. 765-3593.
Summer BICYCLING from Yukon to New 
Mexico through Rockies. For info, meet this Sat
urday at Gray Matter at 3 p.m. or call Jeffrey 
Fisher at 682-5304.
Come and see the real Alice in action. Catch o lice 
in Wonderland in DH 2315 on Wednesday, April
6 at 6, 8, 10 and midnight. Sorry, no children 
allowed, its not exactly the Disney version. 
LOST: TI-58C calculator. Reward for its return. 
Call x8968.
College reps wanted Audio speakers. Must be 
familiar with the better quality products. We can 
provide the demonstration facilities. Our Pro
jection models sell themselves. Liberal commis
sion. For informaiton, call John at Speaker 
Designs, 367-8066 after 5:30 p.m.
Apartment for sublet: This is it! Spacious, 2-br. 
apt. available May 11,1983 to Sept. 1. Option for 
fall. Furnished. 11 minutes from CMU. 
$400/month, utilities included. Parking, laundry 
available. Close to Shadyside shopping. Call 681- 
5127 after 6:00 p.m. or send mail to RV04 at td. 
Call soon though!
clubs
CMU Bicycling Club meets Wednesday at 8 p.m. 
in Skibo Room 13. This weeks meeting includes 
a slide show of the 1982 Coors Classic. Everyone 
is invited.
CMU Ballroom Dance Club Learn to dance, free 
lessons, every Friday 3-4:30, Thisde Hall (Gym). 
Beginners welcome!
AIESEC, a student-run international exchange 
program providing practical business expe
rience, meets in Skibo 11 every Wednesday at 
4:30. Students of all majors are welcome to 
attend, or stop by the office (Skibo 57) any time.
Scotch n Soda, the student drama club of 
Camegie-Mellon University, will present Car
ried oway, an original musical, at 8 p.m., April 
14-16 and 20-23 in the Skibo Ballroom on 
campus.
A contemporary comedy, larried oway is a 
musical farce which portrays characters attempt
ing to hide their true feelings about each other. 
Scotch n Soda enters its 77th year of production 
this season with larried oway, written by CMU 
playwriung student Mark Levine. Joseph 
Hasper, a music major, composed the work, and 
senior psychology major Felicia Pratto directed.
The cast includes Marthe Cotton, Victor 
Aluise, Donna Marvin, Sharon Reidbord, Mary 
Beth Gilmore, Eric Riebling, Gary Middleton, 
and Maria Rehnstrom. For ticket information, 
call 578-3522.
HOW MUCH IS TOO MUCH TO DRINK IF YOU'RE DRIVING?
USING THIS CHART MAY HELP YOU KNOW YOUR LIMIT.
First, you should under
stand that drinking any amount 
of alcohol can impair your abil
ity to drive.
The generally accepted 
way to measure intoxication is 
by your Blood Alcohol Concen
tration (BAC). In most areas, the 
legal definition of intoxication is 
.10 percent BAC and above. 
However, long before you reach 
.10 BAC, your judgment and 
motor skills deteriorate rapidly. 
In fact, some states include the 
definition of impaired driving 
ability, which usually begins at 
.05 percent.
Important factors to keep 
in mind are how much youve 
drunk in a given period of time, 
how much you weigh and 
whether youve been eating. 
Your age, individual metabolism 
and experience with drinking 
are also factors. However, it sim
ply is not true that beer or wine is 
less likely to make you drunk 
than so-called "hard drinks. A 
6-ounce glass of wine, a 12-ounce 
can of beer or V/> ounces of 
86-proof whiskey have about the 
same amount of alcohol and will 
have about the same effect on 
you.
How to estimate your 
Blood Alcohol Concentration.
Although the effects of alcohol 
vary a great deal, the average 
effects are shown in the accom
panying chart prepared by the 
National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration. Find your 
weight in the left-hand column 
and then refer to the number of 
drinks you have had or intend to 
have over a two-hour period. For 
example, if you weigh 160 
pounds and have had four beers 
over the first two hours youre 
drinking, your Blood Alcohol 
Concentration would be dan
gerously beyond .05 percent, and 
your driving ability would be 
seriously impaireda dangerous 
driving situation. Six beers in 
the same period would give you 
a BAC of over .10 percent-the
level generally accepted as proof 
of intoxication.
It is easier to get drunk 
than it is to get sober. The 
effects of drinking do taper off as 
the alcohol passes through your 
body, but the drop is slow. In the 
example above, the person who
Even if youre not drink
ing, other drivers may be. Your 
best protection is still the seat 
belts in your car. Accidents do 
happen, and wearing lap and 
shoulder belts doubles your 
chances of coming through one 
alive.
WeightDRINKS (TWO-HOUR PERIOD)
IMi ozs. 86 Liquor or 12 ozs. Beer
345678910111234567891011123456789101112
14567891011123456789101112
rk456789101112
rm56789101112
U56789101112
BE CAREFUL DRIVING BAC TO .05%DRIVING IMPAIRED.05-.09%DO NOT DRIVE .10% & UP
Source: NHTSA
The chart shows average responses. Younger people generally become 
impaired sooner, while older people have more vision problems at night. 
Tests show a wide range of responses even for people of the same age 
and weight. For some people, one drink may be too many.
had six beers would still have 
significant traces of alcohol in 
his blood six hours later. Having 
a full stomach will postpone 
somewhat the effects of alcohol, 
but it will not keep you from 
becorrvng drunk.
Black coffee, cold showers, 
or walking around outdoors will 
do nothing to make you sober. Of 
course, someone who claims. 
"Ill be okay as soon as I get 
behind the wheel, may l)e mak 
ing a fatal misjudgment.
At General Motors, we have 
developed a device which tests a 
drivers reflexes and motor re
sponses before it allows the car 
to start. The Department of 
Transportation is now testing it 
in California as a deterrent to 
repeat offenders. Today, you. the 
driver, have to know your limits 
and when youve gone beyond 
them. If you have any doubts, 
dont drive.
This advertisement is part 
of our continuing effort to 
give customers useful infor
mation about their cars and 
trucks and the company 
that builds them.
Chevrolet  Pontiac 
Oldsmobile  Buick 
Cadillac  GMC Truck
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanApril 5, 1983
events
The Hunt Institute (or Botanical Documenta
tion, CMU, will stage its fifth International Exhi
bition of Botanical Art and Illustration, April 11 
to July 15. This latest in a series of exhibitions 
held every five years will include 95 works repres
enting 65 contemporary artists. Most of the art
works have been borrowed from museums, 
galleries, publishers, and private individuals. 
The exhibition will be mounted in the Pent
house erf the Hunt Library and will be open to 
the public, free erf charge, from 8:30 a.m. to noon, 
and 1 to 5 p.mM Monday through Friday. For 
further information, telephone the institute at 
578-2434.
Thomas Schwartz, professof government at 
die University of Texas, will present a lecture 
entitled Policy and Compliance: The Lesson of 
Dr. Krankheit and the monster who eats babies. 
Wednesday, April 6 at 7:30 p.m. GSIA Masters 
Auditorium.
DiCesare-Engler Productions wants to announce 
that new wave group  Wall erf Voodoo is going 
to visit Oakland Oasis on Forbes Avenue on 
April 5. They will be signing autographs and 
albums between 2:30 and 3:30. If you need more 
information, please call Oasis at 687-9433.
Is OK Good Enough? Come for fun, fellowship 
and celery sticks; and also to hear Rev. Doug
Dunderdale speak on the topic of excellence. 
Shadyside College Fellowship, Shadyside Presby
terian Church, comer of Amberson and West
minster, Sunday evening, 6:308:30 p.m.
general
John P. Credne, dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences, will hold open office 
hours for students each Tuesday, 1:303:30, BH 
260.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 W'amer Hall on Wednesday, April 6, 
1983. Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set 
up an appointment.
Academic Bag Ladies meet over lunch, Thurs
days, noon until 1 p.m. at Lutheran University 
Center, 4515 Forbes Avenue, Oakland. Info: 682- 
6886.
CALL FOR SCRIPTS: Scotch n Sodas annual 
script review for next years dramas and spring 
musical will be coming up on April 19. If you do 
not have a completed script, bring a plot synop
sis, character sketch, a 2 to 3 page sample of 
dialogue, and some music if presenting a musical. 
Watch this spare for place and time. Other news
 elections are coming! Watch the SNS bulletin 
board for details.
Carnegie Plaid material available. After a search 
of more than five years, the CMU Bookstore has 
succeeded in locating a mill which can weave the 
original Carnegie Plaid pattern. It is believed the 
Bookstore is the only source outside Scodand for 
the Carnegie Plaid material. This 85% wool, 15% 
nylon blend is 54" in width and will sell for $18 a 
yard. The Bookstore is investigating the possibil
ity of having ties, blazers, skirts and other gar
ments made from the plaid. For more 
information, call the Bookstore at x8765.
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday night at
7 p.m. in the Wheirett Room. Students are 
invited to come and address the senate during 
audience participation.
Informal Bible Discussion Group meets every 
Monday evening at 9, in Room 39 Skibo. It is 
non-denominational in nature, and deals with 
campus-related and practical issues directly from 
the Bible. Stop by, and feel free to bring a friend 
with you. If you want additional information, 
call 441-0819 and ask for John.
Counseling and Student Development Center 
Workshops. The following workshops are 
offered this term. Register at Baker Hall 135 or by 
calling x2922 between 8:30 and 5:00.
Test Taking I: Preparation for Taking Tests - 
One session, Tuesday, April 5, 4:30-5:30 p.m. 
Test Taking II: How to Take Exams - One ses
sion Tuesday, April 12, 4:30-5:30 p.m.
Test Taking III: How to Take Exams 
session Tuesday, April 19, 4:30-5:30 pm 
Building Self-Esteem - Leam how tofeeu 
about yourself. Four sessions, Thursday 
4:30-6:00 p.m., April 7-April 28.
Tax Problem?
When all else
Iv*tsbils...
Call tiie IBS Problem Hesol*
tion office. If youve contactedthe IRS with, a Federal tax problem but bad no results, call IRS Taxpayer Assistance and ask for the Problem Resolution Office. The numbers in your telephone directory.
Before We Put You In Charge Of The Worlds 
Most Sophisticated Nuclear Equipment, 
We Put You Through The Worlds 
Most Sophisticated Nuclear Training.
It takes more than 16 
months of intensive 
training to become a 
fully qualified officer in 
the Nuclear Navy. You 
begin with four months 
of leadership training.
Then as a Navyjofficer 
you get a full year of 
graduate-level training 
unavailable anywhere else at any price.
Navy training is based on more than 
1900 reactor-years of experience. Right 
now the Navy operates over half the 
nuclear reactors in America. And the 
Navys nuclear equipment is the most 
sophisticated in the world. Thats why 
your Navy training is and must be the 
most sophisticated in the world.
As an officer in the Nuclear Navy, 
you have decision-making authority 
immediately. You get important manage
ment responsibility r_______________
fast. Because in the 
Navy, as your knowl
edge grows, so does 
your responsibility.
Your training and 
experience place you 
among the countrys 
most qualified profes
sionals. ( No surprise
that most of the men 
who operate the 
reactors in private 
industry started in the 
Nuclear Navy.)
It takes more time 
and more effort to , 
become an officer in the 
Nuclear Navy. But the 
rewards are greater, too.
The rewards can begin as early as 
your junior year in college. Qualify, and 
the Navy will pay you approximately 
$1000/month while you finish school.
After four years, with regular 
promotions and salary increases, you can 
be earning as much as $40,500. Thats on 
top of a benefits package that includes 
medical and dental care, and 30 days 
vacation earned every year. More 
responsibility, more money, more future. 
So, if youre majoring in math,
engineering or the
NAVY OPPORTUNITY 
INFORMATION CENTER 
P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07015
? Please send me more information about 
becoming an officer in the Nuclear Navy.
Name.
w 20* 1 physical sciences, and
(0N)
(Please Print)
Address______
City------------------
Age-----------------
$Year in College.
Last
-Apt. #_
.State..Zip.
tCollege/ U n i vers i ty_
? GPA.
A Major/Minor.
you want to know more 
about a future in 
nuclear power, fill in 
the coupon.
Todays Nuclear 
Navy is an opportunity 
like no other in the 
world.
Phone Number__________________________,-----------(Area Code) Best Time to CallThi is for general recruitment information. You do not have to furnish any of the information requested. Of course, the more weL
know, the more we can help to determine the kinds of Navy posi . tions for which you qualify. I
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast
