TARTAN
Volume 66  Number 13Wednesday, December 14, 1966
Quality Rush 
Pledges 56
Formal sorority rush end
ed last Saturday as 56 wom
en pledged Techs seven sor
orities. This number is al
most the same as last years, 
when 58 women pledged at 
the end of formal rush.
Ruth Steiger, co-chairman of 
rush for Panhellenic Council, call
ed this years rush, a quality 
rush. Girls who went through 
rush this year were very inter
ested and enthusiastic.
Women are now eligible to re
ceive open bids from any soror
ity. On the basis of last years 
results, Miss Steiger expects 
about 30 to 40 more women to 
accept open bids during the rest 
of the year.
In formal rush, each sorority 
was limited to a quota of 12 pled
ges (one-seventh of the number of 
women attending the next to-the]ast function). There is also an 
overall membership quota of 50 
on each sorority. Sororities which 
did not exceed the overall quota 
last Saturday may continue open 
bidding.
Pledge classes of the sororities
sre:
Alpha Epsilon Phi: Linda Bres
lau, Fannie Brown, Elena Eisman, 
Carrie Jacoby, Hilary Kurzweil, 
Jane Leavitt, Judy Pearlstein, 
Pamela Perry, Randee Rafkin, 
Judy Resnik, and Rosalyn Sattel.
Chi Omega: Nancy Cobbe, Su
san Cottrell, Patricia DAlessan, 
dro Roberta Karol, Virginia Mair, 
Sharon Peruzzi, and Joanne Sch
neider.
Delta Delta Delta: Elaine
Abrams, Mimi Dannenbaum, Nan
cy Gilman, Suzanne Glausser, Pol
ly Hollerbaugh, Carole Lebbin, 
Patricia Overdorff, Mary Ellen 
Roos, and Karen Scalise.
Delta Gamma: Janet Battisti, 
Caroline Bozic, Jean Bradel, Mar
garet Culgan, Susan Furtick, Pa
tricia Gallagher, Diane Mall, Jane 
Riva, Jacqueline Schwab, Janice 
Steffens, Linda Watkins, and Mar
ilyn Weaver.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Connie
Barr, Mary Chris Beck, Susan 
Bowser, Sandy Eagleton, Mar
garet Herre, Madeline Hill, Susan 
Kohler, Lyn Laslavic, Janet Males, 
Susan Mitchell, Nadine Slaven, 
and Leslie Steen.
Kappa Kappa Gamma: Gail Chipman, Lynne Marshall, and Cheryl 
Vincent.
Sigma Kappa: Lynna Kanney and 
Karen Norbut.
Fellowship Info
Information on all types of 
graduate fellowships is available 
from Eugene H. Milich, Associ
ate Dean of Men. Dean Milichs 
office is room 209, Warner Hall.
SENIORS 
Last Three Days 
for Yearbook Proofs 
Return Them to Skibo 53
9 am to 1 pm or 2 to 5 pm
AWS Presents List 
of Housing Policies
The Association of Women Students has given the Car
negie Tech Administration a list of four proposals on hous
ing policy for upperclass women. First on the list is a rec
ommendation that all junior women be allowed to live off 
campus, with parental permission.
The other three proposals deal -----------------------------------------------------------------------Highlander Plan Urges Priority Of Student Ideas
with providing apartment space 
to replace the Colonial Manor 
Apartments. (Colonial Manor, 
Techs only apartment-style hous
ing unit for women,-is being torn 
down at the end of the school 
year. The space will be used to 
build new facilities for educa
tional television station WQED.,
Marilyn Blitz, president of AWS, 
has presented the following pro
posals to George K. Brown, Dean 
of Student Affairs, and Virginia
B. Milligan, Dean of Women:
1. All junior women be per
mitted to live off campus, with 
parental permission.
As the rules stand now, women 
over 21 and senior women with 
parental permission may live off 
campus. Junior women now are 
permitted to live in Colonial Man
or.
2. All girls in apartments 
now be given priority to live 
in campus apartments next 
year.
This proposal would protect 
the priority rights of present Col
onial Manor residents who will 
be uprooted by the demolition of 
the building.
3. The male visiting hours 
at Colonial Manor be continued 
at Woodlawn and the first floor 
of Morewood Gardens. (Each 
apartment on the first floor of 
Morewood Gardens has a sep
arate bedroom.)
Current plans call for apart
ment-style honor housing units 
on the upper floors of the Wood
lawn Pharmacy building and on 
the first floor of E-Tower at 
Morewood to replace the Colonial 
Manor units. Men are now allow
ed to visit Colonial Manor until 
(Continued on Page 3)
Student Senates proposi
tion to convert the Highland
er Room in Skibo to a stu
dent lounge-recreation area 
was formally presented to 
the Office of Student Affairs 
and the Office of Business 
Affairs last week. In a let
ter to George K. Brown, 
Dean of Student Affairs, 
Sharon Rambo and Bob
11
Present Highlander Room facil
ities: TV set and portrait of 
Dr. Warner
Schulmann of the Student 
Union Committee outlined 
the project and recommend
ed specific steps for its im
plementation.
fSee Editorial, p. 4
Copies of the letter went to R.
D. Strathmeyer, Vice-President for
(Continued on Page 4)
Experts Probe Areas 
In Deatlvof-God Battle
God has died in our time, in our history, in our exis
tence. This statement by Dr. Thomas Altizer reflects one 
side of the controversy presently flaring up about the Death 
of God. Carnegie Tech, in a unique program to be held the 
beginning of next semester, will explore all sides of this 
question.
The program will begin Thurs
day, Feb. 2, with a teach-in to be 
held in the snack bar at 8 pm. At 
this program a number of experts 
on the Death of God will steer 
the discussion to center on ques
tions pertaining to the Death of 
God. The experts will offer differ
ing opinions on the subject, and 
will not try to reach specific an
swers but rather to stimulate in
dividual thinking.
The following Tuesday and 
continuing for two weeks a 
prominent spokesman on the 
Death of God will address as
semblies to be held at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo. On Feb. 7, Dr. Altiz
er, professor of Religion at 
Emory University and one of 
the men most commonly iden
tified with the Death of God 
movement, will speak. On Feb.
14, Professor Eugene Fontanel,
chairman of the Philosophy De
partment of Queens College in 
New York, will address the as
sembly. Professor Fontanel is 
a Catholic Layman whose sym
pathies for the Death of God 
movement stem from his spe
cialization in 19th century ex
istentialism and phenomenol
ogy.
The last assembly, on Feb. 21,
(Continued on Page 8)
WANTED
A
Interested Student to work on 
Scotch 'n' Soda 
BUSINESS STAFF 
ASIGN UP AT 
S'n'S Auditions Desk in Skibo 
Friday, December 16, 3:30-5:30 
Saturday, December 17 1:00*4:00
Felows howi pInfisHf 
gleanid gorlreorP
Carnegie Tech received its second million-dollar gift in 
two "weeks today when the Sarah Mellon Scaife Foundation 
announced a grant of $1.5 million to the school. The five-year 
grant is intended to help Tech support and retain disting
uished faculty members and to attract promising young 
teacher-scholars.
Grant Keeps 
Tech at Top
President R. Guyford Stever expressed enthusiasm 
about that $1.5 million dol
lar grant from the Scaife 
Foundation and what it will 
do to keep Carnegie Tech at 
the top of the totem pole in 
the academic world.
On hearing of the grant, Stever said, Carnegie must provide 
the kind of environment, as well 
as a level of remuneration, that 
is competitive with the best in
stitutions in the nation.
This generous grant from 
the Sarah Mellon Scaife Foun
dation will permit us to launch 
a two-pronged effort to attract 
to the campus the brightest 
young men and women from 
the finest graduate schools and 
to build the strength of the 
faculty by nurturing them to 
scholarly maturity.
Second, we will be able to pro
vide periodic opportunities for 
our senior faculty to concentrate 
on their research and related ac
tivity. This will encourage our 
better, young faculty to remain at 
Carnegie and at the same time 
serve as a powerful inducement 
in attracting young people at the 
level of associate professor.
Career Meeting 
Schedule Posted
Students interested in ca
reer opportunities in their 
home towns can now make 
use of a Bureau of Place
ments directory to over 60 
community career confer
ences on schedule in as many 
cities during the Christmas 
holidays.
These conferences provide an 
opportunity for community em
ployers from local business, in
dustry, and the government to 
discuss general career offerings 
and arrange more specific inter
views. Sponsored by trade or pro
fessional groups, the meetings are 
normally held at a city hotel or 
college campus and are free of 
charge to participating students.
A list of such meetings is post
ed on the bulletin board outside 
of the Bureau of Placements in 
Skibo, and information about 
dates, times, places, and applica
tion procedures (where required) 
is available from the Bureau 
staff.
SKI CLUB FAIR
?Skibo Ballroom 
and Wherrett Room
?Friday, December 16th 
3:30 - 5:30 pm
This grant will assist select
ed younger faculty members 
in starting research or other 
scholarly programs by: 1) re
ducing teaching loads, 2) pro
viding summer stipends, and
3) supplying funds for the pur
chase of special equipment. 
Also, under the terms of the 
grant, senior faculty members 
will receive research professor
ships for a years leave of ab
sence from regular campus du
ties, enabling them to concen
trate on research or other 
scholarly activities.
It is expected that the program 
for younger faculty will attract 
a large number of high-quality 
doctoral candidates to Tech and 
give these young people a head 
start in an academic career. The 
program for senior faculty will 
reward outstanding performance 
by veteran faculty members, and 
should make a significant contri
bution to Techs ability to recruit 
faculty at the associate professor 
level.
All departments of engineer
ing, science, and management 
along with some of the human
ities and social sciences, will be 
involved in the program estab
lished by the grant. These pro
grams are expected to be in full 
operation by next September.
Specifically, the proposal calls 
for the appointment of 12 fel
lows each year for two-year 
terms. After the first year of 
the program, there will be 24 
of them in residence for each 
remaining year of the program.
Each fellow will be encouraged 
to begin immediately on his own 
research program. To enable him 
to do so, the gift from the Scaife 
Foundation will provide a sum
mer salary, a lightened instruc
tional load, funds for supplies 
and equipment, and small con
tingency fund that will permit 
attendance at important profes
sional meetings and similar mis
cellaneous items.
On the research professor lev
el, ten senior faculty members 
will be chosen in each of the five 
years, making a total of 50, for a 
leave of absence, will allow for 
full-time work in vital research 
or other scholarly activity.
The Scaife grant is the second 
major educational grant received 
by Carnegie Tech since Thanks
giving. On Nov. 30, the Carnegie 
Corporation of New York an
nounced a one million dollar 
gift to the school for the devel
opment of the Carnegie Educa
tion Center, a new experiment 
in teacher education at the grad
uate level.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, December 14, 1966
Tartan Photos Available in Skibo
On Campus Ifa Station
(By the author of Rally Round the Flag, Boys!, 
Dobie GiUit  etc.)
TIS THE SEASON TO BE JOLLY
I know how busy you are-studying, going to class, helping old grads find their dentures after Homecomingbut, hark, the Yuletide is almost upon us and its time we turned our thoughts to Christmas shopping.Well start with the hardest gift problem of all: what to give the man who has everything. Well sir, here are some things Ill bet he doesnt have: 1) A dentist's chair. 2) A Mach number. 3) A street map of Perth, Australia. 4) Fifty pounds of chicken fat 5) A pack of Personna Super 
Stainless Steel Blades.44What V* you exclaim, your eyebrows leaping m wild incredulity. The man who has everything doesnt have Personna Super Stainless Steel Blades? What arrant non
sense! you scoff, making a coarse gesture.But I insist The man who has everything doesn't have Personna because everyone in the dorm is always borrowing them. And small wonder! Wouldnt you be there with an empty razor and a supplicating sidle if you heard somebody had super-blades that were super-sharp and superdurable ; that scrape not, neither do they nick; that shave you easily and breezily, quickly and slickly, scratchlessly and matchlessly; that come both in Double-Edge style and 
Injector style? Of course you would!So here is our first gift suggestion. If you know a man who shaves with Personna, give him a safe.Next let us take up the thorny problem of buying gifts when you have no money. Well sir, there are many wonderful gifts which cost hardly-anything. A bottle of good dear water, for example, is always welcome. A nice smooth rock makes a charming paperweight. In fact, one Christmas back in my own college days, these are exactly the gifts I gave a beauteous coed named Norma Glebe. I took a rock, a bottle of water, a bit of ribbon, and attached a 
card with this tender sentiment:Here*t tome waterAnd here* a rock.I love you, daughter,Around the clock.Norma was so moved, she seized the rock, smashed the bottle, and plunged the jagged edge into my sternum.
Here now is a lovely gift for an American History major a bronze statuette of Millard Fillmore with a clock in the stomach. {Mr. Fillmore, incidentally, was the only American president with a clock in his stomach. James K. Polk had a stem-winder in his head and William Henry Harrison chimed the quarter-hour, but only Mr. Fillmore of all our chief executives had a clock in his stomach. Franklin Pierce had a sweep second hand and Zachary Ifcylor had 17 jewels and Martin Van Burenticked but, I repeat, Mr. Fillmore and Mr. Fillmore alone had a clock in his stomach. Moreover, Mr. Fillmore was the first president with power steering. No wonder they called him Old Hickory!")But I digress. Returning to Christmas gifts, heres one thats sure to pleasea gift certificate from the American Society of Chiropractors. Accompanying each certificate is this fetching little poem:Merry Christinas, Happy New Year,Joyous sacroiliac!May your spine forever shine.Blessings on your aching back I
May your lumbar ne'er grow number,May your backbone ne'er dislodge,May your caudal never dawdle,Joysux Noel! Heureuz massage!
*  *  IN. Mu BfcmhAnd greetings of the season from the makers of Persmnna Super Stainless Steel Blades, Double-Edge or Injector, ana from Personnel partner in shaving luxury, Burma-Snave, regular or menthol.
S *n S Auditions Close Saturday; Positions Open
Auditions for the Scotch n So
da Clubs production of Pippin, 
Pippin will close this week. Re
maining dates for auditioning are 
Friday, December 16, from 3:30 
to 5:30 pm and Saturday, De
cember 17, from 1 to 4 pm in the 
Skibo Wherrett Room. Those who 
have not yet auditioned are urged 
to do so, preferably on Friday, 
in order to leave Saturday open 
for final auditions.
This years show, a lavish 
musical play concerning the 
era of Charlemagne, requires a 
large cast and all interested 
students are cordially invited 
to the auditions. Auditionees 
are required to perform a slow 
and a fast number and to read 
from the script. A pianist will 
be provided for accompani
ment.
Those who wish to work on 
the production staff (costumes, 
sets, make-up, lighting, business, 
etc.) are reminded that they can 
sign up for these positions at 
the desk in Skibo during the au
ditions. Again, this is the final 
week for auditions for the show, 
and those wishing to try out 
should plan to do so this Friday 
or Saturday.
Additional original cast re
cordings of the 1966 Scotch n 
Soda production of Nouveau! 
are now on sale in the Skibo 
Snack Bar every day from 11:- 
30 to 1:30 until December 16.
ATTENTION 
Scotch 4nSoda 
Auditionees
A list of the names of those 
selected for this year's cast 
will be posted Sunday Morn
ing, December 18 at the Ski
bo Information Desk. There 
will be a meeting of the cast 
that afternoon at 1 pm in 
the Wherrett Room. All mem
bers are expected to attend.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobacco  in the City!
BRIAR BOWL
3752 Forbes St. 681-6045 
Nationally 
Advertised 
Pipes
681-6045
F
TPOfflKA
By John Day 
Don Carter 
David Henderson
Resurgiormento
Troika returns to the Tartan after a long vacation. We apolo
gize to our many loyal readers who have been deprived of the 
truth for this extended period. We can only blame our general 
sloth, indolence, and indulgence in our other pursuits.*****
Now that we have a three-party system againthe JDP (Johnson 
Democratic Party), the BDP (Bobbys Democratic Party), and the 
GOPwe can look for some real excitement in the next two years. 
Tne Republican party faced extinction, or worse, being bought by 
Bobby, but instead it made an amazing resurgence. The magnitude 
of this could be seen most clearly by the address of Ted Sorenson, 
close Presidential advisor to Kennedy, to the Democratic Forum in 
New York. Giving a post-mortem on Nov. 9th he said, far worse 
than the usual mid-term slide, far worse then the issues require . . 
it spreads disaster and disarray into our party in every section of the 
country and in every normally democratic state. We lost . . . because 
our party lost direction, enthusiasm, and momentum . . . and because 
the old urban coalition of labour, Negroes, and Jews and intellectuals 
has split into smithereens.
Looking at the Republicans and toward 1968, we see a bright star 
on the horizon in Gov. Romney. However, we also see a few stumbling 
blocks and contradictions in his path. Number one is his failure to 
support the partys presidential candidate. In a leak in the form of 
the 12-page letter he wrote to Goldwater after the 64 defeat which 
just incidentally became a New York Times exclusive (after the acci
dental leak Gov. Romney wired Goldwater that the letter was pub
lished without his knowledge or consentshades of Scranton in 64) 
Romney accused Goldwater of aiming his campaign only at the Southern-rural-whites and argued that to favor states rights is to favor 
segregation. In this respect Romney is going to have to do a little 
reconciling his political with his religious faith, Mormonism, which 
favors the doctrine of congenital and perpetual inferiority of the 
black race.
This will be a big problem, but not as big as his failure to support 
the national ticket; such a deviationist act is considered by the other 
party not only un-Democratic but a mortal sin. In the recent poll. 
27% of the delegates to the 64 GOP convention believed that no one 
should be considered in 1968 who denied national support in 1964.
It is toward Congress where one should look for the action: a 
re-birth of the Republican-Conservative Democratic coalition. Appar
ently the votes are there to stop any Great Society Legislation, save 
a Social Security hike. The set-up was and is: In the old Congress, 
the House balance in favor of Great Society bills was 218 to 195, with 
22 swing votes. The new House will be opposed to new G.S. legislation 
by a 217-177 margin, with 41 swing votes.
The real concern is leadership for the 82 Southern Democratic 
congressmen. The passing of Virginia Representative Howard Smith, 
chairman of the House Rules Committee, has left a real void. This is 
very important as Republicans will have to work closely with Con
servative Democrats on the key committees of Rules, Ways and Means, 
and Appropriations if they want to get across their positive Alterna
tives to the proposals of the President.
The first decisive action for the Coalition will be the 21-day rule 
due for renewal this year. This rule let the Speaker of the House call 
up bills that had been delayed in the Rules Committee for 21 days. 
Most Republicans and Conservative Democrats would rather see bills 
stuck in Committee than have to make a stand when they come to the 
Floor. They avoid a stance of either me-tooism or being reaction
ary and give themselves a little manuevering room for their alterna
tives.
This is just a preliminary to the big question: How can the party 
capitalize on the big gains of 66, bind up old wounds and unite behind 
a candidate to challenge Lyndon Johnson seriously in 1968?
Going To New York?
For Christmas Vacation Travel to New York 
By Chartered Bus.
The Bus leaves the Skibo Parking Lot at 5:00 p.m. on Wednesday, December 21 
(to arrive at the Port Authority Terminal at 1:00 a.m.) and will be returning.from 
Sloane House (Y.M.C.A. on 34th Street) at 3:00 p.m. on Tuesday, January 3 
(avoiding crowds and delays at the Terminal).
Write your Check to STEPHEN WEINREICH for $17.50 (Round Trip) or 
$10.00 (One Way) and Send it to BOX 250, CAMPUS MAIL.
... STEVE WEINREICH, BOX 250 
Ill See You On The Bus!
(No refunds for cancellations after December 17, 1966)

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 14, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
133 Grad Women Study 
In 14 Tech Departments
Mudge men were just not aware that there were so 
many graduate women at Carnegie Tech. The number 
really surprised them, said graduate house president, Jo
seph Valencic soon after a dinner for these women at Morewood Gardens.
One hundred and thirty three 
women participated in the col
leges graduate programs accord
ing to statistics from Virginia 
Milligan, dean of Women. They 
are distributed among 14 depart
ments: humanities, 61; music, 14; 
home economics, 9; painting and 
design, 6; natural sciences, 6; 
chemistry, 5; drama, 4; industrial 
administration, 4; physics, 3; 
computer science, 2; electrical 
engineering, 2; psychology, 2; 
business and social science, 1 and 
chemical engineering, 1.
Dr. Allen Strehler, dean of 
Graduate Studies, points out 
that while total enrollment has 
increased by 24 per cent since 
1955, the enrollment of grad
uate women has gone up by 
135 per cent. In 1955, it was 
only 36.
Todays graduate womenpar
ticularly those in engineering 
and sciencehold a variety of 
fellowships, scholarships, and 
assistantships.
Of the 12 students with gov
ernment-granted Prospective 
Teacher Fellowships in English, 
10 are women. The recipients of 
that fellowship in natural scien
ces are two women. A Puerto Ric
an woman in chemical engineer
ing has scholarships from her 
government and the NDEA that 
will pay for both her masters and 
doctoral studies.
Fine Arts Scholarship
The Heinz Fellowship, granted 
by the College of Fine Arts to
two graduate students per year, 
is held by a soprano in the music 
department. Last year it was 
awarded to a woman in painting 
and design.
A woman MFA candidate in 
directing is the recipient of the 
drama departments largest 
graduate award, according to 
department head Earl Gister. 
Drama also has a female doc
toral candidate.
Until 1965, when Skibo was 
constructed, graduate women 
from the now extinct library 
school had their own house. Al
though Deem Milligan realizes 
that what the women really 
need is a nice house where they 
can meet together and talk to
gether, she has placed nine of 
them in Morewood Gardens dor
mitory rooms and apartments. 
Married women have the option 
of living in Forbes Avenue ap
artments or married students, 
regardless of whether or not 
their husbands attend school.
Some of the Morewood women 
have gotten together to organize 
an informal graduate womens 
organization which they hope will 
be incorporated into the very 
effective working group at 
Mudge. Especially attractive to 
the unmarried 60 or so have 
been resulting Mudge invitations 
to TGIFs and the Mudge Forum 
(an informal week-day night 
event at which prominent per
sonalities are invited to speak),
TRY THE
MOONLIGHT BOWL
BOWL ALL YOU WISH from 12 midnight 
till 6 a.m. for only $2. Special Group 
Rates also available. Open 24 hours 
everyday.
NEW MIRACLE LANES
Wm. Penn Highway
MONROEVILLEPhone: 372-3500
FLYING HOME FOR CHRISTMAS? 
Then Take The Bus To The Airport!
Buses will leave Skibo lot at 11:45, 2:45 and 4:45 sharp on 
Wednesday, December 21, (arrive at Greater Pittsburgh 
! Airport by 12:30, 3:30, and 6:00). Reservations can be 
j made on a first-come, first-served basis. Enclose $1.25 with 
! your name, mailing address, and desired bus departure 
| time. If paying by check, make check payable to "Kappa 
of Alpha Phi Omega/ Send to: Shuttle Bus, c/o A Phi O, 
Box 282, Campus Mail. Your reservation will be confirmed.
 ANOTHER A PHI O SERVICE 
Housing Policies
(Continued from Page 1)
12:30 am weekdays and 1:30 am 
Friday and Saturday nights.
4. Partitions should be in
stalled in the second floor 
apartments (of E-Tower) to 
create a separate bedroom and 
thus allow residents to enter
tain in a non-bedroom atmos
phere. This construction should 
be in the form of a sliding door 
or folding-wall type partition. 
The partitions should be con
structed during the coming 
summer."
Apartments on the second floor 
of E-Tower could be used as hon
or housing units for juniors and 
seniors, except for a school reg
ulation which says that a woman 
may not entertain male visitors 
in her living unit unless the bed
room is a separate room from 
the rest of the unit. The secondfloor units are built like the up
stairs rooms in E-Tower, with 
beds and living furniture all 
in one room. Women eligible to 
live in honor housing have not 
wanted to move into 2-E, since 
they would forfeit the right to 
have male visitors, a key part of 
the honor housing plan.
AlumnusEndows E&S Scholarship
Frank L. Wagner, a 1926 Tech 
engineering graduate, and a na
tive of Somerset, Pa., has en
dowed the Frank L. Wagner 
Scholarship Fund to be used for 
an annual scholarship award in 
Techs College of Engineering 
and Science, with preference for 
applicants from Dubuque, Iowa, 
oi Somerset.
Its provisions state that char
acter, effort, determination, and 
sincerity of purpose shall be the 
controlling factors and high schol
astic standing shall not be a pre
requisite. The chosen student 
may receive the scholarship 
throughout his undergraduate 
career.
A founder and president of Du
buque Container Co., before its 
merger with St. Regis Paper Co., 
Mr. Wagner is now on special as
signment on the St. Regis Du
buque operation.
Thomson Speaks Tonight in Skibo
The String Quartet No. 
2 by Pulitzer Prize-winning 
composer Virgil Thomson 
will be featured at a concert 
by the Carnegie Fine Arts 
String QuaVtet tonight at 
8:30 in Skibo Ballroom.
Mr. Thomson, now Visiting 
Andrew Mellon Professor of 
music at Carnegie Tech, will 
speak after the performance of 
his music by violinists Sidney 
and Teresa Harth, violist 
George Grossman, and cellist 
Theo Salzman.
The program also includes 
Schumanns Quartet in A major, 
No. 3, Opus 41, and Ravels Quar
ter in F Major.
Proceeds from this concert, the 
second in a series of three concerts-in-the-round, go to the Car
negie Scholarship Fund for use 
in the Music Department.
WALLY'S
CAMPUS-FAVORED Men 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS Women
BATES FLOATERS HUSH-PUPPIES FIATS
FLORSHEIM LOAFERS DRESS SHOES
 WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES
3612 Forbes Ave., Oakland (Across from Strand Theatre)
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS
(NOW OR SOON-TO-BE)
You've got a problem.
Here it is 1967 and you have to decide what 1977 will be like. 
Why? Because your next critical career decision is at hand. 
Perhaps you alreody have a basis for the choice. Or does it still 
look like a gamble? We'd like to help you make this decision. 
Have you been told that the world is built on steel? or coal? 
or uranium?
But that's today's world.
You have to think about tomorrow's world.
And that world is being built on molybdenum.
Why? Why? Because your next critical career decision is at
 Supersonic Aircraft?
 Moon Missions?
 Breeder Reactors?
We're talking about unusual containers. Try to build them 
without Mo.
 Acrylonitrile ?
 Nylon/6/6?
 Denitrogenation?
We're talking abot synthetic fibers and air pollution. For the 
catalyst, try Mo.
 Bonded Coatings?
 Sealed Mechanisms?
 Cryogenics?
We're talking about lubrication under extreme conditions. And 
you're right, we're talking about Mo.
You can plan to enter this world. To start, all it takes is a phone 
call to NORM SILKO, our manager of industrial relations, at 
947-9542. Collect.
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS ON DECEMBER 16, 1966.
CLIMAX MOLYBDENUM CO.
A DIVISION OF AMERICAN METAL CLIMAX, Inc.
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, December 14, 1966
Editorials . . .
Only Toys?
One of the most popular, and most publicized toys on sale as 
Christmas gifts is a small doll, approximately eight inches high, 
realistically featured with hinged joints that allow it to assume 
rearly any position. The doll is dressed in the various combat uni
forms of the United States, ranging from ski patrol gear to jungle 
lighting equipment. To complete the gruesomely realistic set, the 
toy soldier is outfitted with an arsenal that would put any minuteman group to shame, with such realistic scaled-down weapons as 
machine-guns, bazookas, and even a replica of a flame-thrower. In 
addition to all the American military weaponry and uniforms, these 
toy soldiers have their Nazi and Communist counterparts. Some 
soldiers are clothed in World War II German uniforms, complete 
with helmet and burp gun. Others wear the grey uniforms of 
Russian troops, and carry guns similar to the Russian light math in e-gun.
In the midst of its Christmas toy department, one prominent 
Pittsburgh department store has displayed these soldiers in 
war-like settings constructed from paper-mache and paint. In 
addition, the toy manufacturer has supplied a brief sales film 
shown on a small viewing screen, lauding the realism of these 
soldiers, and proclaiming that staging battles, and killing 
enemy soldiers is fun!
With all the current talk in Washington, extending as far as 
the Vatican, of maintaining a Christmas truce, as a show of our 
peace on earth, good will toward men1 attitude, perhaps some
thing as minute and unimportant as a Christmas toy is irrelevant. 
As a nation, we earnestly claim, to all who will listen, that we are 
not warmongers, and that we are striving for a peaceful world for 
our children, and all mankind. In the meantime, the sale of toy 
soldiers continues, as a striking confirmation of our hyprocrisy. The 
leaders of our country have often countered the criticism of skeptics 
both here and abroad with statements pointing our peace efforts, 
while simultaneously assuring everyone that our utmost desire is 
peace. Some of these critics even suggest that many of the Hawks 
are businessmn, whose Christmas has been paid for by supplying ma
terial for our war committments. But it appears that the toy industry 
is benefitting as much as any airplane or ordinance manufacturer!
Despite all the soothing words from Washington, our nation 
would appear far more hyprocritical than even our stanchest critics 
would suspect. The appalling fact is that many people in this country 
are preoccupied by a fascination for war. Far more pathetic is that 
this preoccupation has extended to our children, who are not only 
bombarded with pictures and facts about the real war, but in 
addition are enticed through television advertisements, and displays 
such as the one previously mentioned, to launch their own offensives 
with toy Marines against an equally life-like enemy.
If we are to honestly claim that wars are horrible creations 
of men, and tha t the hope of the world lies in ultimately seeking 
peaceful solutions to our differenced, then how can we as a na
tion, conciously strive or hope for this goal, while we watch, 
contentedly, as our children open Christmas packages contain
ing life-like toy soldiers fearfully armed for battle under the 
Christmas tree.
Lets Do It
With the construction of Warner Hall, Carnegie Techs heralded 
ten-year plan for campus development came to an end. There is, 
nowever, still more work to do on the physical plant as Tech ex
pands to a university: a dramatic arts center must be built, and the 
Departments of Architecture and Painting, Design, and Sculpture 
need more space. At the other end of the school, a new research 
center is in the works, and the new Department of Biological Sci
ences is going to need room to grow.
The Tartan hopes that, in the midst of all this activity, the 
plans for giving Tech students a livable and useful student union 
will not be shuffled aside.
Last week, the Union Committee of Student Senate presented 
the Administration with a proposal to make the Highlander Room 
in Skibo into a lounge and recreation area, with the stipulation 
that its use be regulated by the Senate. This proposal fills a 
nagging and lang-neglected need; it is designed soundly and 
cleverly; and its seems immediately feasible.
The need for more recreational facilities on campus has been 
harped on so long it has become a pedestrian issue. Tim McFeeley, 
Coordinator of Student Activities, described the present facilities: 
two ping-pong tables, a TV set, and some chess sets and decks of 
cards . . . for a student body of 3,500. The upper floor in the High
lander project woul:l triple these resources.
More important than this, though, is the need for a lounge 
area where students can relax, gather informally, and just feel 
at home at the schcol. The freshman and the independent dorm 
resident feel this need often; their social life is restricted by 
liquor laws, school and fraternity regulations, and a constant 
dearth of spending money. And the commuter has a unique 
problem: he often feels totally alienated from campus life, like 
a transient; he has no base of operations; no place at Tech 
he can call heme except his locker in Baker Hall.
A thoughtfully-organized, well-equipped student union would 
help solve some of these problems. But Skibo was not built as a 
student union; it was built as a campus (and community) activ
ities center. It is a sterile building and a disorganized one.
The administration realizes all* this. It has actively sought stu
dent recommendation!, on Skibo, and is planning eventually to build 
an annex to it.
An addition to Skibo will be expensive and will take a lot 
of careful thought and a lot of time. The conversion of the High
lander Room could be finished by next September. It would by 
no means be a substitute for a Skibo annex, but it would cer
tainly be better than nothing. And this project could easily be 
integrated into an annex projectan addition to Skibo would be 
buiit in the parking lot area, and the Highlander Room faces diHighlander Room
Quual t>Ec.vg
Proposed Highlander Room f acilities.Plans for Highlander Room
(Continued from Page 1) 
Business Affairs, and Thomas Mc
Feeley, Coordinator of Student 
Activities.
Plans for the project include 
dividing the Highlander Room in
to two floors, with the bottom 
floor a lounge and the top floor 
a game room. (See floor plans, 
above.
The proposal letter says, This
area is vitally needed . . . An 
adequate game facility must be 
provided as well as an attractive 
loung space . . . The present build
ing does not offer an adequate 
lounge area for students. Neither 
the Tartan Grill nor the main 
lobby meets this -ieed.
Avoid Grill Mistakes 
Implementaion proposals were 
included in the letter to avoid
rectly out over the parking lot.
Furthermore, the renovation plan itself is a good oneit makes 
effective use of the least-used area in Skibo. (Statistics compiled 
by the Office of Student Activities last year showed that the Balli oom-Highlander Room-Wherrett Room complex in Skibo was used 
by students less than one-fourth of the total available time. The 
Highlander Room is sometimes used for faculty and non-student 
1 unctions, but these events could be held more conveniently on the 
other side of Skibo, in the faculty lounge-dining room area.)
The Highlander Rooms long, narrow shapethe very char
acteristic that makes it unsuited for mass gatherings of any type 
makes it particularly well-suited for division into separate, 
relatively private lounge compartments. Putting an upper floor 
in the room lowers the ceiling (thus eliminating the airplane 
hanger effect) and doubles the floor space.
Finally, the proposed plan is flexible. On special occasions, the 
furniture could be cleared out of the ground floor and the room 
could be used as before.
This project is needed; it is a well-designed project; and it can 
be built. The Tartan thinks it should be builtsoon.
carnegie techTARTAN
RICHARD G. SEXTRO Editor-In-Chief
Executive Editor .....................................................SUE ATTINSON
Managing Editor ................................................ERIC FELDMANN
Business Manager ...................................................JUDY BIRKEN
Desk Editor .................................................................BRUCE GELIN
News Editor ....................................Mike Vargo
Sports Edito...................................................Larry Sikon
Photography Editor .....................................John Mera
Local Advertising Manager ...................Joan Jaques
National Advertising Manager....Patricia Bowman
Layout Editor ............................................Laura Seidler
Secretarial Editor .................................Diane Cushing
Circulation and Layout Advisor.........Dave Rodgers
Printing Production Manager....Harvey A. Shapiro 
Circulation Managers....Jeff Parks, Jim Neumeister
Printing Production Staff: Henrik Lind, Barbara Moses, Barbara Wander.
Executive Assistants: Candy Etkin, E. W. Seley.
News Staff: Elaine Bearer, Tim Brendel, Linda Cameron, Jeff Evans, Ellen 
Levine, Richard Morrison, Diane Samuels, Joanne Schneider, 
Louise Schwerin, Jeanne Siegel, Rich Steffns, Joan Sztyga, 
Selina Wang, Linda Wenzel, Carol Nissenson, David Lands
berger, Camille Badzgon.
Sports Staff: Don Baer, Rich Boynton, Elaine Bykowski, Mike Cooperman, 
Ron Finnin, George Smith, Mike Smolens, Jim Janke.
Layout Staff: Michael Cramer, Ellen Blissman.
Photography Staff: Michael Perel, David Ben Leavitt, Gordon S. Morris, Sue 
Lohmeyer, Mark Kaminsky, Paul Horvath, Pat Stakem, 
Chris Hausier, Patti Lewis, Lanie London, Fred Rial.
Business Staff: Gail Eichner, Ted Rees, Tom McGuire, Hilary Kurzweil.
Typing Staff: Mary Kay Cruikshank, Cheron Gelber, Jean Hammond, Ginny 
McKelvy, Harriet Nadel, Judy Resnik, Carol Robinson.
Editorial Board: Evan M. Melhado.
Advertising Staff: John Knechtel, Mary Olds, Kathy Schultz, Leonard Wanetik, Jane Merck, Carroll Swarmer.
Annual Subscription Rate: $3.00 
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
OFFICES: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Phone 682-4557
some of the mistakes made in the 
Tartan Grill, according to Miss 
Rambo.
The proposals are:
1. This project be given prior
ity by the Administration in bud
get plans for next year.
2. Establish September 1, 1967 
as date for completionconstruc
tion to begin June 6, 1967.
3. Bids to be accepted immediately.
4. Student recommendations be 
finalized in conjunction with se
lected contractors.
Further proposals to assure a 
student voice in execution of the 
project are:
1. Student choice of color 
scheme, furniture, draperies, pan
eling, equipment, and lighting.
2. Student policy decisions in 
regulating use.
Dean Brown and Mr. McFeeley 
both commended the project and 
acknowledged the need for a rec
reation space in Skibo. The Di
vision of Business Affairs and 
Physical Plant will look into the 
physical and financial feasibility 
of the plan.
Carnival Plans Now Tentative
Roman Through The Comics 
wil be the theme of Spring Car
nival this year it was disclosed 
last night at a meeting of the Car
nival Committee. In keeping with 
this theme, each midway booth 
will take a character from the 
comic strips and try to put him 
in a classic mythological setting.
A committee of representatives 
from fraternities and sororities 
chose the theme. Specific themes 
for the individual booths will be 
selected early next semester.
Also at last nights meeting, the 
Carnival Entertainment Commit
tee announced tentative plans for 
the w e e k e n ds entertainment. 
Pianist Peter Nero has been con
tracted for a Friday night con
cert, and the committee is trying 
to sign a comedian for a Saturday 
night performance.
The Carnival Dance will tenta
tively be held in the gym. Any
one with ideas for Sring Carnival 
can call Steve Baker in 109 Scobell.
The Spring Weekend is sched
uled for Friday, May 5 and Satur
day, May 6, 1967.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 14, 1966  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Page 5
*The Fortune Cookie
By Tim Bay
Billy Wilders latest film, The Fortune Cookie, is a funny, percep
tive satire on a favorite American pastime:- swindling the insurance 
company. In a deeper sense, The Fortune Cookie marks the reemergence of Billy Wilder as a first rate movie craftsman. Wilder in 
this film shows a sure instinct for his work and irreverent cynical 
ability to find humor in a totally unfunny situation.
Starting with . Double Indemnity (1944), Wilder directed a whole 
series of films which earned him six Academy Awards and a reputa
tion as one of Hollywoods most skillful artists. After the unsentimental 
blunt of Double Indemnity, there was Lost Weekend (1945), a graphic 
exploration of the shame, guilt, and self-disgust experienced by an 
alcoholic. Sunset Boulevard (1950) was a poignant and sympathetic 
portrait of Hollywood which showed that a lot more than silent comedy 
died with the introduction of sound into the medium. Stalag 17 (1954), 
The Seven Year Itch (1957), and Some Like It Hot (1959) revealed 
Wilders genius for fast-paced comedy, but also they showed an in
creasing use of humor that was in poor taste and an overt reliance 
on stock gags and situations.
Then Wilders fortune went downward with the speed of a descend
ing roller coaster. The Aparfanent (1960) had some amusing pieces of 
business, but was basically a tedious, overextended dirty joke. One, 
Two, Three (1961) made unfunny fun of the Cold War, and was 
murdered by most of the responsible critics. Irma La Douce (1963) was 
off color, rather tedious reprint of the stage hit; despite the colorful 
picture-postcard French locale, Jack Lemmon could just as well have 
been Rock Hudson, and Shirley MacLain, Doris Day. Wilders last 
film, Kiss Me Stupid, was a fiasco that earned the distinction of 
offending practically everybody.
Wilders fall from grace is now ended with The Fortune Cookie, 
his latest film, starring Jack Lemmon and Walter Matthau.
As the film opens, Lemmon is Harry Hinkle, a CBS cameraman 
covering a Cleveland Browns football game at Municipal Stadium. Be
fore a huge television audience Lemmon is clipped by Brown player 
Boom Boom Jackson: he rolls over twice, does a somersault over a 
tarpaulin, rolls five more yards and finally conks out, unconscious. 
Hinkle wakes up later in the hospital, finding himself confronted by 
his hysterical mother, impassive sister, and hulking, disheveled 
brother Walter Matthau. Matthau, known to insurance companies as 
Whiplash Willie, is a chisling, fast-talking lawyer, who uses slightly 
unorthodox methods. As one character puts it: Willie is so full of 
twists and holes that when he describes a donut, it comes out a 
pretzel.
Not satisfied with a mild concussion, Willie has his brother fake 
a serious injury. To help his case with the insurance company along, 
he needles Harrys left leg and right arm with enough novocaine to 
paralyze an elephant. Thus, for the rest of the show Lemmon or Hinkle 
is reduced to sitting in a wheel chair, while Matthau runs away with 
the show. Matthau uses his hulking frame, his rubbery, mobile face, 
leering eyes, and alternately rapid and sonorous voice to marvellous 
comic effect.
The film is best, that it, tightest and funniest, when Matthau is 
on stage scheming and conniving. It falls apart, however, whenever 
Wilder tries to inject sentimentality or racial timelinessin other 
words when he reveals himself as a Hollywood director. Good in
stances are the scene with the Bill Cosby-looking Negro football player 
acted by Ron Richwho is so sincere, clean-cut and considerate 
that he hardly seems real. There are glimmers, however, of the Old 
Wilder, the caustic and exact observer: the set of the room of Harrys 
ex-wife, and the wife herself, are created with a nice sense of dimestore cheapness and authenticity.
Of course, in the end, the fairy-tale laws of Hollywood prevail. 
The Scheme has fallen through, because of a hilarious series of 
complications, and as the picture ends, in a passing salute to 
Brotherhood, Harry and the Bill Co-by football player are seen 
wanmly tossing a football around in the empty stadium.
Despite the unnatural quality of the ending, Fortune Cookie is a 
beautifully done satire on Greed an dthe machinations of the illegal 
mind. For Walter Matthaus virtuoso comic playing, alone, it is well 
worth seeing.*****
If The Fortune Cookie is the work of a highly skilled craftsman, 
Kiss the Girls and Make Then Die which sneak-previewed that same 
night at the Gateway, downtown, is the exact opposite. Produced by 
Dine De Laurentis and set in Rio de Janiero, it is the latest and poor
est variation on the James Bond idea.
This time, the Cold War superman in a Brooks Brothers outfit 
is played by Michael Connors. Despite his studied air of invul
nerability and his casual lechering, Connors is the poorest cousin 
in the Ian Fleming creation so far. The villain, Raf Vallone, is a 
leering, unpleasant person who collects flowers and girls, and in 
his spare time works on a project that promises to be the ultimate 
solution to the Birth Control Problem.
This ingenious solution involves a cobalt radiation device that, 
once scattered over the earths surface, will make every man, woman, 
and child sterile. Although a confirmed and undaunted movie lover,
I found myself falling asleep during this silly movie. Not only did I 
find the basic premise absurb, but the whole production was acted with 
all the conviction and realism of a pack of trained seals performing 
Hamlet. Without giving away any secrets, the Earth is spared, by the 
heroics of Connors and his girlfriend, from-a sterile future.
Speaking of sterility, Kiss the Girls and Make them Die was di 
rected by Henry Levin; Terry Thomas and Dorothy Provine also 
appear in it. When I left the movie theatre, the ushers were handing 
out cards for the audience to write their reactions down. To tell the 
truth, I really didnt have theheart.
UnldtIafs glis yrfsiinsOS 
ulreIeC hIsf Mr yrwlcsO
by Stan Thomas
Sunday, Dec. 11, the Pittsburgh Playhouse faces financial failure resulting in the 
closing of what is Pittsburghs only live professional theatre. The Playhouse, now under 
the management of John Hoover and the artistic direction of John Hancock, had 
dubbed this season as a presentation of Theatre of Excitement. The major excitement 
of the season, however, has not been on stage but in the manager's office.
Two weeks ago, manager HoovAnthone Review
Sinatra and Williams 
On Television
by Tony Lawrence
Last week there were supposed to be three great television shows. 
As it turned out, only about an hour and a half (out of nearly five) 
was worth it. On Wednesday at 7:30 pm, ABC and the Hallmark Hall 
ot Fame presented Noel Cowards Blithe Spirit. Though I only saw 
the last of it, Im sort of glad I was spared. The worst miscast of 
all was Ruth Godon playing a very dull Madame Arcati.
Following at 9:00 pm was Frank Sinatra: A Man and His Music 
(Revisited). A sequel to last seasons success, it was for the most part 
brilliant. The theme song this time (like It Was a Very Good Year 
lest time) was It Was Just One of Those Things. Sinatra is just as 
striking as ever and even though he is beginning to look like every
ones old man, he is still tremendously charismatic. His singing is not 
really flawless, his breath control is a bit shaky and an occasional 
fuzzy or flat note is apparent. These two things mattered not simply 
because he is still the most unique male singer around. He delightlully sailed through such numbers as My Heart Stood Still, My Kind 
of Town, and a brand new release entitled Thats Life.
Nelson Riddle and Gordon Jenkins were responsible for the 
arrangements. It often isnt known just how much arrangers do. 
They have been said to be the primary factor in making a rec
ord a hit or miss. The three musicians (Sinatra, Riddle, and 
Jenkins) obviously found a happy, beautiful medium.
The only disappointing ingredient in the show was the brief ap
pearance of Sinatras daughter, Nancy. I thought for a moment that 
someone had switchea stations to Shindig or American Bandstad, be
cause the camera dollied in only to reveal her sitting on something 
that resembled a Parchesi board. She sang a couple of tunes with a 
voice that could (at the most) be called pleasant. There was about 
a 10-minute segment with some father-daughter clowning. The iron
ic part was when she kiddingly told Frankie, Well, Dad if 1938 ever 
comes back again, youll be a smash. Here it is 1966, and he most 
certainly is a smash. She, understandably, is anything but.
On the following night (Thursday, 9 pm), CBS attempted to 
match the unforgettable Death of a Salesman (also of last season) in 
a two-hour presentation of Tennessee Williams The Glass Menagerie.
The cast seemed good enough, but, with the exception of Hal 
Holbrook doing a superb job as Tom, the actors appeared confused 
yyith their assignments.
Shirely Booth as Amanda, the aging Southern Belle, became 
simply a nagging mother rather than a woman living occasionally 
in the past with deep sensitivity and genuine emotions. Miss 
Booth alienated the viewer with her constant harangue and failed 
to convey the subtle sparkle that should have been there.
Barbara Loden (the original Maggie in After the Fall) playing 
Laura, Amandas lame daughter who is unable to cope with life and 
resorts to playing old phonograph records and polishing glass ani
mals, was a grave disappointment. Pat Hingle (the gentleman caller) 
was also to blame. The poignant scene in Act HI when he tells Laura 
that she must face the world and not allow herslight handicap (a 
small limp) to control her, fell miserably short. The scene became 
vaguely reminiscent of an Elaine May-Mike Nichols improvisation. 
Mr. Hingle allowed his exuberance to get out of hand all to often. 
He was not nearly a3 enjoyable to watch as was his film counter-part 
Kirk Douglas.
It is unfortunate that the production was not excellent. The play 
lends itself to nothing but brilliance and it is unquesionably Wil
liams greatest. Its greatness did come through now and thenbut 
the director and the cast allowed none of the genius.
Three Showings Set for Films
Eight experimental underground 
films are being shown tonight in 
the Wherret Room of Skibo. Show
ings are scheduled for 4, 7, and 
9 pm Admision charge is 75 cents.
Films to be shown include Ken
neth Angers Scorpio Rising, 
Mario Banna by Andy Warhol; 
Oh Dem Watermelons by Rob
ert Nelson; Dance4 Chromatic 
by Ed Emshwiller; Magician 
by Semifor Films of Poland; Its 
About This Carpenter by the 
NYU Film Group; Dance of 
Love by Peter Weiner; and the 
classic Salvador Dali-Luis Bunel 
work, Un Chien Andalou.
Fireside Group To Meet Sunday
Professor Joel Goldstein of the 
Psychology Department will host 
an International Fireside at his 
home this Sunday night, Decem
ber 19, at 7:30.
The International Fireside pro
gram, sponsored by the Interna
tional Committee, is a small group 
of American and foreign students 
who meet for informal discussions 
in facutly homes. Membership is 
flexible, and anyone who wants 
to come to the Fireside can sign 
up in the YMCA office in 57 Skibo.
er announced that the theatre 
needed $300,000 to continue oper
ating. Unless this sum were rais
ed the Playhouse would be forced 
to close. Sunday afternoon was 
the deadline. If the needed mon
ey was not raised by then the 
theatre was to close.
The facts surrounding the sit
uation and the moves taken to 
save the Playhouse have been 
documented in the Tartan in a 
news story which appeared last 
week and in an interview of Mr. 
Hancock which also appeared last 
week. A curious thing about both 
these features was that when Mr. 
Hancock was asked about the in
cumbent closing of the theatre of 
which he is artistic director, his 
reply was to the order that he 
knew nothing about. In the arti
cle concerning the financial sit
uation the mention of Mr. Han
cock was negligible. Perhaps the 
reason why the Pittsburgh Play
house faces closing lies in the 
fact that while the manager is 
appealing to the public for mon
ey, the artistic director is re
hearsing the next show even 
though it cannot open if the bills 
are not paid.
Theatre Needed 
Pittsburgh needs live theatre. 
That is what everyone from the 
Playhouse, everyone connected 
with the fund-raising drive has 
been telling Pittsburgh for the 
past two weeks. When these bat
tle cries failed to rally the mas
ses, insults were used. Pittsburgh 
is a tank townwhatever that 
means. Of the intimation that 
Pittsburghers have no culture, 
which in the Lincoln Center Age 
is tantamount to blasphemy, no 
one bothered to mention that per
haps what the Playhouse was of
fering was not wanted.
No one bothered to point out 
that the proposed season read 
like a reading list for a grad
uate seminar in production 
styles; a reading list that most 
graduate students would find 
unattractive.
Good theatre needs not be eso
teric theatre and the fact that 
the two greatest successes on 
Broadway last year were a re
vival of a 30-year-old American 
play and a transplant of an Eng
lish production of a German play 
should be indicative of what will 
buy tickets to see. T} e APAs 
production of You TAR  Take It 
with You did not sell out weeks 
in advance, but it did play to full 
houses. Peter Brook's production 
of Marat/de Sade became the hot
test ticket on Broadway, but 
mainly because the run of the 
show was limited to nine weeks. 
Business was so good that the 
company stayed three additional 
weeks.
TV More Convenient 
John Hancock had the right 
idea when he announced a sea
son of Theatre of Excitement, 
but what is a theatre without ex
citement? There is no reason why 
Pittsburghers should want the
atre or even need theatre if 
that theatre is not worth the 
time it takes to watch the play. 
If the theatre is not exciting, if 
the theatre does not entertain, 
the movies are cheaper, televi
sion is more convenient.
One-third of the money need
ed to operate the Playhouse for 
(Continued on Page 7)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, December 14, 1966
Social Scientists Needed 
To Examine Peace Corps
Graduate students, including former Peace Corps Vol
unteers, will have a chance to conduct field work leading to 
a Ph.D. while also helping the Peace Corps learn more about 
itself under a new program recently announced by Director 
Jack Vaughn.
The program seeks students 
who are studying for a doctor
ate in the social and behavioral 
sciences to do research related 
to Peace Corps selection, training 
and field problems.
Most Peace Corps returnees 
chosen as researchers would 
work in the country or region 
in which they served as Volun
teers. Living and travel expen
ses and tutition would either 
be shared by or be paid en
tirely by the university and 
the Peace Corps.
Peace Corps research during 
the coming year will concentrate 
on studies of what the major 
Peace Corps programs actually 
are accomplishing and how they 
can be improved; attempts to 
produce training texts and case
material that would examine 
cross-cultural problems of doing 
specific jobs in Peace Corps host 
countries; and studies of Volun
teers who have failed in training 
or overseas in order to improve 
the Peace Corps selection pro
cess.
Applicants should write to 
Charles Peters, Director of Ev
aluation and Research, Peace 
Corps, Washington, D.C. 20525.
Before writing, each applicant 
should discuss the matter with 
his department head or faculty 
adviser to determine if Peace 
Corps research fits the applicants 
graduate program and to get a 
preliminary indication of the uni
versitys interest in sharing fi
nancing of his research with the 
Peace Corps.
during vacation come in and browse. 
OUR UNIVERSITY SHOP 
good-looking suits and sportwear 
lor undergraduates, in sizes 36 to 44
\Vc have a comprehensive and distinctive selection 
of clothing and furnishings in our University Shop, 
specially designed for undergraduates. Included 
among our 3-piece suits are worsted flannels, sport 
models in worsted cheviot, unfinished worsteds in 
herringbones...and interesting new designs and 
colorings in tweed sport jackets...all reflecting 
Brooks styling and good taste.
Suits, $85 to $95  Tweed Sport Jackets, $50 and $60 
Tweed Topcoats, from $90 * Flannel Blazers, $55 
Our Warm Outerwear, from $35
Price* slightly higher Meit of the Rockies.
KSTAMJSHID INI
CLOTHIMG 
lints tr Joys furnishings, Hats fr Shoes
600 SMITH FIELD STREET A MELLON SQUARE 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 15222
NEW YORK  BOSTON  CHICAGO  SAN FRANCISCO  LOS ANGELES
MMCC Seniors 
Receive Parry 
Book Awards
Five seniors in Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College at 
Carnegie Tech have been 
awarded Parry Memorial 
Book Grants for the 1966-67 
academic year.
In recognition of their high 
scholarship record and special 
interest in English, Susan Attinson, Elizabeth Carten, Jane 
Schoenfeld, Gail Whitacre, and 
Christina AVick will each re
ceive a grant, consisting of $50 
in credit at the Tech book
store.
The Frances Camp Parry Me
morial Fund, started in 1921 by 
faculty, alumnae, undergraduates, 
and friends, make these grants 
possible. It also established the 
Memorial Book Collection in the 
Margaret Morrison Library com
posed of Miss Parrys personal 
volumes as well as new books 
added each year.
A graduate of Smith College in 
1899, Miss Parry taught at Hollidaysburg Seminary, Pittsburgh 
Central High School, and Alle
gheny Preparatory School before 
joining the Tech faculty in 1911. 
She was head of the department 
of English from 1915 until her 
death on October 16, 1920.
FRED DONNELLY
(B.S.C.E.) of the Bethlehem 
Steel Loop Course knows 
where the action is.
Hes a field engineer for 
our Fabricated Steel 
Construction Division, one 
of the nations greatest 
building organizations.
Join the action.
First step: pick up 
a copy of "Careers 
witk Bethlehem Steel 
and the Loop Course 
at your placement 
office. Then sign up 
for a campus interview.
Our 1967 Loop Class 
has openings for technical 
and non-technical graduates 
(and post-grads) for 
careers in steel operations, 
research, sales, mining, 
accounting, and other 
activities.
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer in the Plans for 
Progress Program
BETHLEHEM 
STEELFormalslirty
Survey Cites Importance 
Of College Finance Men
The most versatile business managers in the country 
may be operating on college campuses rather than in the 
top echelons of commerce and industry, a study by the U. S. 
Office of Education suggests.
The officer who administers 
the non-academic affairs of a 
large university may be called 
the business manager or vice 
president of business affairs. In 
either case, the steady rise in 
university expenditures is mak
ing him the number two man on 
campus in terms of the number 
and variety of his responsibilities' 
Only the university president has 
a greater variety of functions.
A sample study by the Office 
of Education shows that the 
university chief business offi
cer has nine major areas of re
sponsibility and may have as 
many as 19.
Among the major areas are 
fiscal accounting and reporting, 
collecting and disbursing funds, 
budget preparation and opera
tion, investment of endowment 
and other funds, and planning 
and constructing buildings.
Among other areas of concern 
are payroll, internal audit, data 
processing, business management 
of research and other contracts, 
finances of student activities, and 
business aspects of student loans, 
institutional studies, and inter
collegiate activities.
A more detailed .profile of the 
college business officer emerges 
from the sample study, which 
covers universities enrolling 5,- 
000 or more students and liberal 
arts colleges and junior colleges 
with enrollments of 1,000 or 
more in the fall of 1964.
Many Subordinates 
An average of 10 top super
visors report directly to the col
lege business officer, the survey 
found, though in many cases, the 
number ranged from 20 to 26 and 
on one campus the figure was 
37. This broad span of control 
exceeds the workable limit of 
six to 10 reporting subordinates 
set by some business management 
authorities.
Other highlights of the survey 
are:
?Chief business officers earned 
an average salary of $14,766 a 
year, exclusive of fringe bene
fits. The spread was from $11,527 
at junior colleges enrolling less 
than 2500 students to $22,269 at 
universities with 10,000 or more 
students.
*Most top business officers 
had won a masters cm* doctors 
degree, usually in business ad
ministration. A number were 
certified public accountants 
and several had taken graduate 
courses or earned certificates 
from management institutes.
*Prior to becoming chief business officer, most of these men 
had not had experience in the 
business office of any college. 
Their business experience, for 
the most part, was gained out
side the academic world.
Copies of the report, Business 
Management, (OE-53027) may be 
purchased for 30 cents each from 
ments, U.S. Government Printing 
Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.
Group Formed To Help Restore Damaged Art
To help restore the price
less art damaged by floods 
Nov. 3-4 in Florence, Italy, a 
chapter of the Committee to 
Rescue Italian Art (CRIA) 
has been established here.
Chairman of the Pittsburgh 
group is Dr. Howard Saalman, 
association professor of archi
tecture at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology.
The local effort is in support of 
the national CRIA based at 1 
East 78th St., New York City, 
and headed by Mrs. John F. 
Kennedy, widow of the Presi
dent. The CRIA is appealing for 
funds to save, repair and restore 
the many precious paintings, 
manuscripts and ancient archieve 
damaged by water, mud and oil 
in the Italian disaster. The dam
aged works formed not only the 
cultural heritage of Italy, but of 
all nations. Time magazine of 
November 25 reports that $32 
million will be needed to sal
vage the damaged works.
Musical events and a fine arts 
ball are being considered by the 
local group as part of a fund-rais
ing drive.
With Dr. Saalman, the Pitts
burgh committee includes U.
S. Rep. William S. Moorhead; 
Pittsburgh artist Virgil Cantini; the Rev. Hugh S. Clark 
of the Church of the Redeem
er; Professor William C. Loerke, University of Pittsburgh 
Art historian; Lawrence Carra, 
professor of drama at Carnegie 
Tech; Paul Schweikher, head 
of Techs department of archi
tecture; Norman Rice, dean of 
Techs College of Fine Arts, 
and Professor Walter R. Hovey, 
head of the Frick Fine Arts 
Library, University of Pitts
burgh.
EARN CASH.. PART TIME
Outstanding sportswear manufacturer wants top flight 
salesmen and saleswomen to solicit fraternities, sororities, 
social organizations, and clubs, with specialized novelty 
items. Top commission paid. Little sales experience neces
sary. Send qualifications and summary to Box C., C.I.T.
For '67...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTORSPittsburgh's Factory Dealer 
ROUTE 8. ETNA

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 14, 1966  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Page 7
This Week In Pittsburgh
by Tim Brendel
MUSIC.............
Pittsburgh Symphony: Handels Messiah. Saramae Endich, soprano; 
Beatrice Krebs, alto; Joseph Sopher, tenor; Simon Estes, bass. 
Mendelssohn Choir. Harry Mazer, conductor. Civic Arena, Wednes
day, December 14, 8 pm.
Mt. Mercy College: Christmas Concert. Mt. Mercy; Washington & 
Jefferson Glee Clubs. John Lively, William Saul, conductors. An
tonian Hall. Wednesday, December 14, 8:30 pm. Admission free.
Duquesne University: Christmas Concert. University Orchestra and 
Choir. Raymond Montoni, conductor. Rockwell Hall. Thursday, 
December 15, 8:15 pm. Admission free.
Pittsburgh Symphony: Tong II Han, piano soloist. Harry Mazer, con
ductor. Syria Mosque. Thursday, December 15, 8:40 pm. and 
Sunday, December 18, 3:10 pm.
Third Presbyterian Church: Candlelight Service. Vivaldis Gloria. 
John R. Lively, conductor. Sunday, December 18, 4:30 pm. Admis
sion free.
Chatham College: Candlelight Carol Service. Vocal selections, read
ings. Choir. Lorenzo Malfatti, conductor. Russell Wichmann, 
organ. Chapel. Tuesday, December 20, 11 pm. Admission free.
yourheoinnnnnnnnnnnnn
The International Poetry Forum presents The Sung Poem by Judy 
Collins. Carnegie Music Hall. Wednesday, December 14, 8:30 pm.
delnnnnnnnnnnnnn
A Midsummer Nights Dream. Shakespeares famous comedy as a 
brutal erotic nightmare about lust and a desire to kill. 8:30 pm, 
Tuesday thru Friday; Saturday at 2 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 
pm. Craft Theater, Pittsburgh Playhouse.
The Entertainer. John Osbornes dissection of the psyche of Music 
hall comedian Archie Rice. 8:30 pm, Tuesday thru Friday; Sat
urday at 2 and 10 pm; Sunday at 7:30 pm. Hamlet Theater, Pitts
burgh Playhouse. Starts Friday.
EXHIBITS.............
Photographs by Frank Hayes and William Jungels. Falk Hall Foyer. 
Chatham College. 10 am to 5 pm, Monday thru Saturday; 2 to 5 
pm, Sunday. Now thru December 19.
Exhibit of Work by Russell Twiggs. Pittsburgh Plan for Art, 1251 
N. Negley Ave. Now thru December 21.
Moon Venture 1969 and Miniature Railroad and Village. Buhl Plane
tarium. Railroad on display from 1 to 10 pm. Moon Venture shows 
at 2:15, 4:15, and 8:15 pm.
Paintings, Crafts, and Sculpture by Local Artists. Phyllis Kindler, 
featured artist of the month. Gallery Downstairs, 5413-B Walnut 
Street, 10 am to 4 pm, Tuesday thru Saturday; 7 to 9 pm, Wednes
day and Friday; 1 to 4 pm, Sunday. Now thru December 15.
Photographs, Drawings and Models by Contemporary Philadelphia 
Architect, Louis Kahn. Galleries E-H, secon dfloor, Carnegie Mu
seum. Now thru December 25.
Canaletto etchings from the Division of Graphic Art, Smithsonian In
stitution. Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts Gallery. University of 
Pittsburgh. Monday through Friday, 12 noon to 4:30 pm; Satur
day, 1 to 5 pm; Sunday; 2 to 5 pm. Now thru January 8.
Paintings, jewelry and stichery by Caroline Riggan. Art Gallery, 26 
floor, Cathedral of Learning, University of Pittsburgh. Monday 
thru Friday, 9 am to 5 pm. Now thru December 31.
Pennsylvania Dutch pottery, painting and pewter from the collection 
of Dr. S. Harris Johnson IIT. Treasure Room, Carnegie Museum. 
Monday thru Saturday, 10 am am to 5 pm; Sunday, 2 to 5 pm.
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh Annual Exhibition. Needle-paintings 
by Merry Been. Arts and Crafts Center, Fifth and Shady Ave. 
Monday through Saturday, 10 am to 5 pm; Sunday, 2 to 5 pm. Now 
thru December 31.
Discussion on Objection 
Views Personal Aspects
A YMCA-sponsored program tonight will examine the 
personal and legal aspects of becoming a conscientious ob
jector. A conscientious objector, a professor of law, and the 
director of the Tech Y will be on hand at 7:30 tonight in 
Skibo 105 to discuss Conscientious Objection.
Paul Parkinson, a Tech alum------------------------------------------------------------------
nus (63, Architecture), will tell 
about how he fulfilled his draft 
obligation with a term of alter
nate service for the American 
Friends Service Committee. Tom 
Kerr, professor of Law at GSIA, 
will describe the legal procedures 
necessary to get a CO status. Tom 
Huff, YMCA Director, will also 
be present.
The meeting is not intended to
discuss the moral issues involved 
in pacificism. Instead it is aimed 
at students who (1) are consi
dering applying for CO status 
and would like an opportunity to 
compare their personal views 
with those of a CO; (2) are inter
ested in the legality of obtaining 
a CO status, and (3) are just 
curious about the subject of con
scientious objection.
Tech Volunteers Tutor 
Upward Bound Scholars
One hundred high school seniors whose chances of go
ing to college were almost non-existent have been given a 
new opportunity by Project Upward Bound. Last summer 
the students lived and studied for six weeks at Carnegie 
Tech, Pitt, or Mt. Mercy and were exposed to college life for 
the first time.
Their program included not 
only courses and books; in ad
dition to receiving a certificate 
from the campus bookstore for 
$15 of free books, they were 
taken to museums, plays, and 
sporting events in Pittsburgh. 
Continuing through the school 
year, Upward Bound is now aid
ing the seniors in college plans 
and preparations. Twenty - two 
Tech students are now tutoring 
34 students each Saturday morn
ing algebra, geometry, chemistry, 
physics, Latin, and Spanish, and 
the students are being aided in 
selecting colleges and obtaining 
the necessary financial aid to at
tend them.
Project Upward Bound is a 
continuation of the experimen
tal SCOPP program started sev
eral years ago at Carnegie 
Tech. In this program, 33 out 
of 35 students actually did go 
on to college after their ex
periences at Tech. Presently 
the project is nationwide and 
is financed by the U.S. Office 
of Economic Opportunity.
Ernest Fleischman, program 
project director from the Board 
of Education, explained that the 
program identifies students who 
have promise, but arent making 
use of it. The condition of pover
ty sets a ceiling on their aspira
tion level; all students are from 
families making not more than 
$3,000 per year. They follow a 
non-college track in high school, 
and some even quit. Rather than 
singling out good behavior stu
dents, we chose students who 
show symptoms of alienation from 
high schoolindifference, nega
tive attitudes towards school 
work and teachersand expose 
them to an alternative other than 
unskilled work.
More Tutors Needed 
Mr. Fleischman requests more 
volunteers to spend one or two 
hours each Saturday helping the 
high school seniors. Potential tuPlayhouse -
(Continued from Page 5) 
the rest of the season has been 
raised, and that started as a 
cliff-hanger must become a 
serial because the management 
has extended the drive for an
other week. The fate of the 
Playhouse is unsettled. Any
way the artistic director is still 
rehearsing The Entertainer 
which is scheduled to open on 
Friday.
So for the next week, the Pitts
burgh Playhouse will continue its 
death throes. I suppose its not 
nice to kick a dying man, but he 
must have been sick all along.
RUGS $15 to $59
1000 9x120, 6x9$, 12x12$, 12x15$, 
etc. AI$o furniture di$count$ to 40%
__ . 5432 Walnut St.CI13SG S SHADYSIDE
10-9 p.m. * 621-1025
: Between Classes or at Study Break *
-SCOTTY'Si
OPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE
. . . and . . .
ROUTE 8, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE
tors should contact him at the 
Upward Bound Office, Ext. 455, 
or Room 121, Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College.
Present Tech tutors are:
Edward Schneider, Paul Col ten, 
Peggy Parker, Hal Smith, Elliot 
Plotkin, Bernadette Hogan, George 
Gaugler, Ruth Weinberger, Linda 
Curry, Jack Sax, Lawrence Yaggy, Linda Erenrich, Alice Hoffer, 
David Bauman, David Hey, 
Charles Coleman, Al Hoberman, 
Sue Stout, Fletcher Hardemen, 
Thomas Bernard, LeRoy McKees, 
Tom Bittman, and David Valone.
Readers Write
Another WAC 
Speaks Up
Mary Olds may be the only 
girl in Techs ROTC, but she is 
not the only WAC on Techs cam
pus. There is one other  thats 
me. And I have a distinction of 
my own. I am the only student 
nurse at Carnegie Tech. I belong 
to an Army nursing program call
ed Walter Reed Army Institute of 
Nursing. I have been in the Army 
for a year, and I am a Private 
first class in the Womens Re
serve, pulling in $242.98 per month. 
Tartan! You have been corrected.
PFC Barbara J. Hesselman 
WR 8-225-525 
Junior, National Sciences
Keyed-up students unwindjto at Sheraton...
Save with weekend discounts! Send for your 
free Sheraton ID card today! It entitles you 
to room discounts at nearly all Sheraton 
Hotels and Motor Inns. Good over Thanks
giving and Christmas holidays, summer 
vacation, weekends all year round.
SEND FOR YOUR FRFE ID CARD!
and
save
money
COLLEGE RELATIONS DIRECTOR 
c/o.Sheraton-Park Hotel, Washington, D.C. 20008 
Please rush me a free Sheraton Student ID Card (or a free Fac
ulty Guest Card). I understand it entitles me to generous dis
counts all year long at most Sheraton Hotels and Motor Inns. 
Name_______________________________________________________________________________________________________
Address
Student ? Teacher ?
Sheraton Hotels & Motor Inns
Pittsburghs Oldest Fine Jewelers Since 1832 
3 FINE STORES
elowshi pI nfHgiaId
DIAMONDRINGS
LANAI..........................FROM $100
A diamond solataire that fits close to the finger yet gives the diamond an 
Up in the Air appearance in 18 Kt. White Gold Worlds finest diomonds 
to fit your budget. Terms arranged
Worlds Finest Diamond to Fit Your Budget!
JOHN NI' K0IUKIS< SON (
Pittsburgh429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
LEWIS
Sales-Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, December 14, 1966
Students Assist State Politicians
The Pennsylvania Center for 
Education in Politics is begin
ning an undergrduate political 
internship program to allow 
college students to work in close 
cooperation with state political 
leaders and organizations in 
Pennsylvania.
The standard ten-week sum
mer assignments carry with them 
a $750 stipend; however, intern
ships may be arranged for any 
part of the academic year and 
for any length from four weeks 
to a year.
Applications for positions 
should be submitted jointly by 
the student and the politician or 
organization he will serve. Appli
cation forms are available from 
Dr. Sidney Wise, Director, Pen
nsylvania Center for Education in 
Politics, Franklin and Marshall 
College, Lancaster, Pennsylvania 
17604.
Residence of Distinction
ONE ROOM Kitchenette 
equipped, and bath, beauti
fully furnished  $155. up.
?
3 ROOM APARTMENT, very 
attractively furnished, $275. 
up.
?
Also . . . UNFURNISHED 1 
and 3 ROOM APARTMENTS, 
when available.
?
FAIRFAX HOTEL
4614 5th AVE. PhoiM: 621-4030
WARA Closes 
3-5 Season; 
Next Year Bright
The womens volleyball team, 
making a final bid for a .500 season, hosted an inexperienced Pitt 
team last Tuesday night. The 
girls never quite made the game 
look like a team sport and ended 
the season with a 3-5 record.
Although the Pitt team had nev
er played together in an official 
match, the Tech girls lost the 
match on poor set-ups and incon
sistent serving. The Tech team 
knew their opposition was inex
perienced so they started the. first 
game a little overconfident but 
were humbled 9-15.
In the second game, the Tartettes played a little more like a 
team and easily beat Pitt 15-5; 
however, in the third and decisive 
game the Tech girls narrowly 
lost 13-15, thereby losing the 
match.
The Tech girls and coach are 
looking forward to an improved 
season next year since all of the 
players will be returning. After 
the Tuesday game, this years 
manager and captain, Elaine Bykowski hands her duties over to 
Carroll Swarmer for the forth
coming 1967 season.
Seniors and 
Graduate Students
Graduates '67BA, B.S., MA, M.S., M.BA, Ph.D.
Theres GREATER OPPORTUNITY in 
GREATER PHILADELPHIA
An Operation Native Son program offers 
interviews with your choice of 65 equal opportunity employers...December 28th 
and 29th 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hotel Sheraton.
For further information see y,our college 
placement officer, send coupon below, or 
better still, attend while you are home on 
holiday.
NO FEES I NO ADMISSION CHARGES 1
Sponsored by: PHILADELPHIA JUNIOR 
CHAMBER OF COMMERCE 
In cooperation with: GREATER 
PHILADELPHIA CHAMBER OF COMMERCE
OPERATION NATIVE SON
Suite 1100, 121 S. Broad St. 
Philadelphia, Pa. 19107
Student's name_______________
Mailing Address_______________
City______________________________
College_________________________
Degree____________
.Phone.
.Major area of study.
Date of Graduation.
God -
(Continued from Page 1) 
will feature Dr. William Hamil
ton. Dr. Hamilton is professor of 
Theology and Ethics at ColgateRochester Divinity School. He 
deals primarily with the person
al and social ethics of living in 
a detheologized world.
Area-of-Interest Poll
Because of the nature of the 
subject and its depth, a poll is 
being taken to determine the in
terest in the subject and specific 
area of most interest. Lasted be
low are 10 thesis. Students are 
asked to read through them and 
then to stop off in Skibo 103, the 
office of Student Activities, and 
register their interest in the pro
gram and also let the steering 
committee know in which areas 
they would be most interested. 
The 10 thesis are:
1. There is no God and there 
never has been.
2. There was once a God to 
whom adoration, praise and 
trust were appropriate but now 
there is no such God.
3. The idea of God and the 
word God are in need of rad
ical reformulation.
4. The reality (God) abides, 
but our traditional liturgical 
and theological language need 
a thorough overhaul.
5. The Christian gospel can 
no longer save or heal.
6. Certain concepts of God, 
such as God as problem-solver, 
often confused with the Chris
tian idea of God, must be des
troyed.
7. Men today do not experi
ence God except as hidden, ab
sent, or silent.
The gods men make in their 
thoughts and actions must die 
so that the true God might 
emerge.
9. God must die in the world 
so that he can be born in us.
10. Our language about God 
is always inadequate and im
perfect.
If other areas not mentioned 
here are of interest they too 
should be noted.
WRCT Schedule
Wednesday, December 14
5:00 pmGodric hosts the Wednes
day version of Club 90: the 
rock & roll show with the cam
pus spiti spirit in mind.
7:00CBS Radio Network brings 
you up to date with a summary 
of the days nwes.
7:15Dave Rodgers show is For 
You and For Me.
10:00Larry Charles is back with 
some cool jazz on The Larry 
Charles Show.
12:30 amSign off.
Thursday, December 15
5:00 pmClub 90 for Thursday is 
presented by Henery VHI.
7:00CBS News.
7:15CBS Sports.
7:30to be announced.
9:00Dickens immortal story A 
Christmas Carol.
10:00  The Bruce Mann Show 
Things go better with Mann!
12:30 amThe premise of a Provictavits Talk program hosted 
by A1 Morgan.
1:30sign off.
Friday, December 16
5:00 pmJohn D. Rand brings you 
The Lively Ones.
7:00CBS keeps you informed of 
the latest news and sports.
7:30The Friday night edition of 
Wipeout!
8:05Tartan Basketball . . . live 
and in color from the Skibo Gym 
. . . Tech vs. Wooster.
9:45  Wipeout! continued  with 
rhn at the controls.
1:30 amFall out . . .
Saturday, December 17
$5:00 pmYou too can get stoned 
by The Roland Stone Show.
7:00Wipeout! If you havent 
been stoned by 7:00, youre sure 
to be wiped out by 1:30 with 6 
(count them S-I-X) hours of 
SOLID ROCK & ROLL.
1:30 amShut down.
Sunday, December 18
9:00 am  Open The Gates with 
John Gates.
11:00A Concert for a Sunday 
Afternon is presented by j 
Blair.
1:30 pmTheWRCT Recital Hall 
brings you taped CIT Music 
Dept, recitals.
2:30For the best from Broad^ 
way & Hollywood its House 
Curtain with A1 Bradythis week 
the Broadway musical Lil 
Abner.
3:30If live folk music is your 
interest, then tune in The Marva 
Marrow Show.
4:00The Sunday Ceilidh with
Howard Glasser.
5:00  John D. Rands Sunday 
Mosaic features the best in 
popular music.
8:00The WRCT *N Roll Request 
and Dedication Show.
Call in your requests at 621- 
9728 (MA 1-WRCT). For you girls 
in Morewood, dial 01 on your 
house phone.
2:00 amTurn off!
Monday, December 19
8:00 amOpen The Gates with
John Gates.
7:00 pmCBS News.
7:15What can we say, but its 
The Time and Place for Walt 
Sullivan.
10:00Studoi J with Jeff Allen 
where the music is mostly con
temporary.
12:00 amsign off.
Tuesday, December 20
7:00 pm  CBS News 
7:15Nighttime Street and George 
Kavanagh  the easy listening 
sound of jazz.
10:00  Warm your thoughts with 
the soft spoken sounds of Elisa 
By Night.
12:30 amSign off for Christmas 
vacationto resume broadcast
ing Wednesday, January 4, 1967. 
Hourly, Throughout Most Live 
Programming, WRCT Keeps You 
Informed With CBS Radio Net
work News.
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
3711 Forbes Avenue 
PHONE: 683-2181 
Student Discount on Most Items
GRADUATE T8 LOCKHEED
Engineering seniors: visit the Lockheed suite at the Jack Tar Hotel in 
San Francisco, December 27-30 or call Lockheed collect (408) 743- 
2801. Spending this Christmas holiday in the San Francisco area?... 
then look in on Lockheed at the Jack Tar Hotel. Lockheeds profes
sional employment team will be conducting interviews that can set you 
on the path to a fascinating, high-paying job at Lockheed. Theyll be 
happy to tell you about new-product development, product diversifica
tion, company-conducted research, company-paid tuition programs, 
proximity to universities and research centers... as well as Agena, 
Polaris, Poseidon, Deep Submersibles m 
and much, much more. An equal opportrmmrlem t. mrack cotpany
lUn lly  III PI Oy6I . * 0*0^ aws/ow or 6(ConCnt Aimc**rr comromAnon
1

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, December 14, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 9
IM Review
*
(Continued from Page 10)
Standings : W L
ATO B ............................. 1 0
PiKA ........................ 1 1
GSIA ..................................... 1 1
BTP ............................ 0 0
SN "Gold ......................... 0 1
SAE ............................... 0 2
Six-Man Volleyball
pass League 
The EJs A team finished un
defeated with a hard fought win 
over BTP A, while DTD beat 
TDP B to create a three-way 
tie for second place. Then to de
cide second place, DTD again 
\ beat the TDP B six, 15-3, 15-8, 
and won by forfeit over Beta to 
get their shot in the playoffs this 
week. When the dust settled:
Standings:W L
EJs "A ................... 7 0
DTD ............................ 5 2
TDP B ................... 5 2
BTP ............................ 5 2
Double Eagle ........... 2 5
SAE J ................... 1 6
Bandits ...................... 1 6
Set League
The SAE Lionsoutclassed
aggresive SN Gold team to re
main undefeated and create an
other three-way tie for second 
place. The SN team, along with 
F troop and BSR, had identical 
4-2 records. F troop drew the 
bye and the Zoos squeezed out 
a pair of victories from BSR (15- 
9, 8-15, 15-7, but F troop sur
prised the oZos with a 15-5, 2-15,
15-12 victory.
Standings :wL
SAE lions" ....____ 60
F troop _____------- 42
SN Gold ............... 42
BSR ........................... 42
TX X ............------- 24
ATO FF---- 16
Grad Nads ____---- 06
Serve League 
PiKA finished undefeated with
a victory over ATO, but GSIA 
1 and TDP A tied for sec
ond with only two losses each. 
In a rough battle last Wednes
day night, however, the TDP 
team triumphed over GSIA, 15-8, 
6-15, 15-12, to get a berth in the 
playoffs.
Standings: W L
PKA ............................ 6 0
TDP A ...................... 4 2
GSIA L .................. 4 2
EJ Z ...................... 3 3
PKT Gold ................... 3 3
ATO A ...................... 1 5
SN Black .............. 0 6
Spike Leagues
GSIA E won three games in 
one night to finish with a 6-0 rec
ord. Theta Xis T team, who 
had supposed to have lost (by 
double forfeit) along with BTP 
B last week, was allowed to 
reschedule the game. They beat 
Beta, 15-7, 15-8, and thus tied 
with SAE Purple for second 
place with four wins and only 
two defeats. The inspired TX 
team then proceeded to handle 
whip the SAE six (15-4, 15-11) 
to gain sole possession of second 
place.
Standings: W L
GSIA E _________ 6 0
TX T ........................ 4 2
SAE Purple ____ 4 2
EJ B ......................... 3 8
PKT Purple ____ 2 4
Nates to Win _______ 2 4
BTP B ___________ 0 6
Standings: W L
Tonight in the gym at 7 the 
semifinals in the playoffs will be 
held (the quarterfinals were held 
Monday night).
Thursday: 7 pm consolation 
game and 8 pm championship.
WHATS DOING ON CAMPUS
by Joanne Schneider 
and Joann Sztyga
WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 14th
10:30-3:00Womens Club Sewing Group, 
Highlander.
4:30Falk Lecture, Abraham Kaplan, 
professor of philosophy at University 
of Michigan, will lecture on "The Self 
and Its Identity, GSIA auditorium.
5:30-7 :30Delta Delta Delta, Skibo 45. 
6:30Flying Club, PH 126B.
7 :00-S :00Sigma Kappa,Skibo 40.
7:30Student Oratory, Dr. Stanley J. 
Jaki from the Institute for Advanced 
Study, Princeton, New Jersey, will 
speak on The Church and the Scien
tific Study. Highlander Room, Skibo.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 15th
11:30Coupled Diffusion and Chemical 
Reaction Seminar, department of bio
logical sciences. Professor Herbert L. 
Toor department of Chemical Engi
neering. Breed Hall, MMCC.
12 :30Student - Facuity Convocation, 
Woodwind Ensemble, Exhibition Hall, 
CFA.
12:30-1:30Grinding Wheel Institute An
nual Meeting, Skibo Highlander Room.
4:30-6:00Christmas Party, Faculty 
Lounge.
5:30Student Oratory, Skibo 39.
7 :00Penn Jr. Academy of Science Lec
ture Series. Energy and Energy Con
version. Professor Stanley W. Angrist, Department of Mechanical En
gineering, DH 2210. American Chemi
cal Society of Pittsburgh Award Din
ner, Ballroom.
FRIDAY, DEEMBER 16th
3:30-6:30Ski Club will sponsor a free 
Ski Fair with a skiing demonstration 
and fashion show. Ballroom and Wherrett.
8:00-1:00House of Rising Sun.
8:15Basketball game, CIT vs. Wooster. 
Tech Gym.
9:00-12:00 Ceilidh.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 17th
1:00-4:00Tech Dames (Childrens Christ
mas Party), Skibo Highlander, Wherrett 
Rooms.
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 18th
9:00, 10:30, and 12:00Mass, Scaife Au
ditorium.
11:00Protestant Service.
8:00Tech Student Oratory will hold its 
annual Christmas Party at the Oratory. 
4040 Bigelow Blvd.
8 :30Percussion 
Hall, CFA.
T
H
ENAVARI
Eastwood
Theatre371-5000
8995
FRANKSTOWN ROAD 
PENN HILLS
Wed. thru Sat. 
dec. 14-15-16-17MelinaMercouriAnthony Perkins '
phaedra
The passion of Phaedra...
who at the same moment embraced her love
and her destruction
DISTRIBUTE!) BY 10PT PICTURES CORPORATION
SIDM POITIM \ 1*43 trimFilm fu.I
Sun. thru fri. 
Dec. 18-Vec. 23
MMOOONLIG HTBWRAD-RERJL .JM.L 1 JL kJ ms FIRSTHIS HRST IN COLOR!
ANCE10 RIZZOU
FEDERICO FELLINIULIETKf/ OF THEcarnreg
BRIAROWWL T LPRfL PLflKL TRAN 
E PMACL SNPdRfL
Ntfiwl IV. i*t![ D MUSTS
REMEMBER: IF YOU ARE A PITT, TECH, OR DUQUESNE 
STUDENT, 25c OFF ADMISSION WITH ID CARD.
WHERE ARE WE? 8995 Frankstown Road. Take Forbes Ave. to Braddock Ave. 
Left on Braddock. At 5th light, Right on Bennett. Proceed a mile and a half (1.5), 
and park in any of 3 available Lots around Theatre.
(WE ARE 1 BLOCK BELOW EAST HILLS CENTER)
8 :30Woodwind 
Hall, CFA.
Ensemble, Exhibition
TUESDAY, DECEMBER 20th
11:30Campus Christmas Assembly, Fine 
Arts Lobby.
4 :30PanHel, Skibo 40.
6 :00-8 :00Chi Omega, Skibo 46.
7 :30Explorer's Club, Skibo 45.
8 :00Tech Dames, Skibo 54.
8:00-10:00Folk Dance Club, Ballroom.
EXHIBITS ON CAMPUS
Hewlett Gallery, CFA. Paintings by 
Watfa Midani. S' am to 12 noon, 1 to 
4 pm. Monday through Fridaythrough 
December 21.
Hunt Botanical Library. Linocut prints 
of botanical subjects by Henry Evans 
of San Francisco. 1 to 5 pm. Monday 
through Fridaythrough March 25.
Hunt Library, Rare Book Room, fourth 
floor. Illustration of the printed book, 
15th-19th centuries. 8:30 am to 5 pm. 
Monday through Fridaythrough De
cember 22.
Porter Garnett Graphic Art* Gallery,
third floor, Baker Hall. Byers, Harmon, 
Schomer, Vigliotti. 9 am to 9 pm Mon
day through Friday; 9 am to noon Satdaythrough January 6.
Hunt Library
Doll Exhibit
$IHAN
NV wn
ilKtWMtl
ANO\mu\NTAL;
umefcGMM C-.HBBY ANDY WASfiOL'KetftfeTH AHaeB. 
BOB6RT TteLSOTfZKLVABOR J>ALl 
lewi Te*Gue-ej> eMSHuiiUR mdtthtn
4*7 9PVHeRRTT ROM-SKlB  75t
Ensemble, Exhibition
MONDAY, DECEMBER 19th
8:15Drama Dept, presents Evening of 
Fables, by James Thurber. Directed by 
Aaron, Frankel, Carnegie Theater.
LAST 9 DAYS
FORVM THEATRE
Eastmon Color. JAMES COBURN in 
'DEAD HEAT ON A MERRY-GO-ROUND"
YOU CAUGHT THE PUSSYCAT:*. NOW CHASE THE FOX!
PPH SE-ERS
iuedu Padg4W
Co-storring
V/dbR. MenWo
andDDITT rid AMR Written by Produced by Directed by Dl\l I I LlALMNU NEIL SIMON JOHN BRYAN VITTORIO DE SICA
Music BURT BACHARACH Produced by Delegate Productions A. 6 and Nancy Enterprises, Inc.PANAVISI0N1C0L0B byDeLuxePg UNITED ARTISTS
Our Christmas Attraction Starts Friday. Dec. 23
WSJ

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10  CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN  Wednesday, December 14, 1966
Tartans Split PairAs Team Begins To Gel
by Jim Janke
Carnegie Tech won its first game of the season last Thursday night over Waynesburg, 91-80. The game was full of excitement from the opening whistle, when Don Keefer, 
jumping center for the Tartans, controlled the tip and was subsequently fed the ball a 
few seconds later to score a 20-foot set shot to put CIT out in front, 2-0. Waynesburg 
never had the lead during the entire game, but the game was very exciting nonetheless 
because the Tartans never managed more than an eight-point lead until late in the 
fourth quarter.
The Tartans were in trouble 
early. An over-anxious official 
called six fouls in the first three 
minutes of play, and when Mark 
Lang committed his third with 
14 minutes still to play in the 
first half, Bill Weborg was sent 
in to replace him. Ray Burdett 
and Barry Hummel both had 
three fouls before the first half 
ended, and Neil Hauser had also 
picked up a pair of personals. 
But Weborg and Don Keefer 
came through when the going got 
tough; Weborg scored 13 points 
and Keefer 10 in the first half 
alone. The half ended with CIT 
on top, 46-40.
Mark Lang was called for a 
foul in the opening seconds of 
the second half, and was imme
diately taken out of the game. 
Waynesburg moved slowly on 
the Tartan lead, and with John 
Kompa, Mike Fleischaver, and 
Bob Girardin leading the way 
they cut the lead to 71-69 with 
10:06 remaining irj the game. The 
Tartans with both Weborg and 
Lang in the line-up, scored seven 
quick points to make the score 
78-69, and force the Yellow Jack
ets to call a time out. The short 
delay did nothing to stop the 
inspired Tartan attack, however. 
Neil Hauser stole or broke up 
five passes and Don Keefer threw 
in three quick buckets to put the 
game on ice. Keefer, Hauser, and 
Lang played an exceptionally 
good second half, with 33 points 
among them in the half alone. 
Lang played the last 12 minutes 
with four fouls on him, but the 
Waynesburg five was unable to 
get him to commit another until 
only 26 seconds were left in the 
game. When the buzzer sounded, 
the Tartan had won, 91-80.
State Edges Tech, 64-57
Last Saturday afternoon, Penn 
State squeezed by Carnegie Tech, 
64-57, in a close battle finally 
decided by States superior re
bounding strength in 6-9 Paul 
Mickey and 6-8 Bill Stansfield. 
With Tech in the lead, 52-49, af
ter Penn State had led at the 
half, 35-31, Jeff Persson of the 
Lions, with the two big State 
forwards, started a ten-point 
splurge which put the game out 
of the Tartans reach, 59-52. Un
til that time, the lead had 
changed 28 times, with the bat
tle between Techs superior ball 
control in Don Keefer and Jeff 
Kalin and States control of the 
backboards. Keefer led all scorers 
with nine field goals; Kalin and , 
Marie Lang had 14 points each.
The Tartans were trying for 
their first win against State since 
1955, and were leading until only 
six minutes were left in the 
game. It was States first win in 
three starts; the Tartans are now 
1-3.
Bill Weborg Paces Tartan Scoring.
STATISTICS
CITFG FTA FTPF Pts.
Lang854520
Keefer11222
Weborg054222
Hauser61212
Burdett23246
Hummel21145
Meister214
Totals4017111891
Waynesburg FG FTAFT PFPts.
Kompa1353229
Girardin863519
Fleischaver832318
Cunningham42149
McCrerey11113
Marshall12
Totals3517101580
JV score:Point Park73, CIT
JV 38.
Keefer Sinks a 25-footer.
CITFGFTA FTPFPts.
Hauser22145
Keefer910018
Burdett20044
Kalin632214
Lang652314
Meister10012
Totals261151457
Penn StateFGFTA FT PFPts.
Linden15426
Persson565515
Young454212
Stansfield710214
Mickey710514
McGovern00010
Ceidy10002
Hayes01101
Totals2519141764
Field goal percentage: Tech 
44.8 per cent; Penn State 41 per 
cent. Rebounds: Tech 36, Penn 
State 43.
Ski Club Fair
The Carnegie Tech Ski Club is 
sponsoring a free Ski Fair with a 
skiing demonstration and fashion 
show Friday, December 16 from 
3:30 to 6:30 in the Skibo Ballroom 
and Wherret Room. Representa
tives of all local ski areas will 
also be present.
Theta Xi Wins Playoff Game.
Bowling
Strike League
The EJs A continued their 
one point hold on first place 
with a 4-0 victory over BTP A. 
DU stayed right behind them 
with a 4-0 shutout over TX. In 
the third match SAE, who have 
been bowling well but just havent 
been able to win too many 
points, went on to take all four 
points from DTD B.
EJs A ____________ 16 o -
DU ................................. 15 1
BTP A ____________ 8 8
SAE .............................. 5 11
TX ................................. 4 11
DTD B ____________ 6 16
Space League 
With SN and TDP A match
ed against each other, BSP slip
ped into first place with a 4-0 
win over the Donner Dorm 300s. 
SN, by taking three out of four 
points from TDP, took over sole 
possession of second place. In the 
other league match, the Eigenracs 
shut out the EJs C, 4-0.
Standings: W L
BSP _________________ 13 3
SN ----------------------------- 12 4
The Foul Line
by LARRY SKON
Tartan Sports Editor
For a break from the local sports world, lets look at the latest 
developments in the world of professional sports. First, lets look at 
baseball. Even though its quite out of season, baseball has been mak
ing the sports headlines quite frequently. This is, of course, due to 
the recent trades. Locally, the Pittsburgh Pirates have shown that 
they were not about to stand pat by first purchasing Juan Pizarro 
from the White Sox, then trading Bob Bailey for super-star Maury 
Wills and Don Cardwell for Dennis Ribant of the Mets. This has 
quite obviously given the Pirates the greatest defensive infield in 
both leagues and has strengthened their weak pitching staff to a 
degree that will make them a certain pennant contender. The Dodgers 
it would seem, are dead. They have not only lost their pitching ace in 
Sandy Koufaxs retirement, but also traded away all former sources of 
hitting in Tommie Davis and Wills. It remains to be seen if Bailey, 
Ron Hunt, and Jim Hickman can amply replace them. After years of 
attempts, the Yankees have finally managed to trade Roger Maris. 
The former slugger went to the Cards for Charlie Smith. The Yankees 
also traded veteran Clete Boyer to Atlanta for a relatively unknown 
rookie outfielder.
In football, the Packers and Cowboys appear to be living up to the 
pre-season polls. The Cowboys undoubtedly lucked-out when St. Louis 
lost their veteran quarterback and were forced to go with inexperienced 
Steeler reject Terry Nofsinger. As for the Steelers, my deepest sym
pathy.
Hockey has progressed, for the most part, unnoticeably. But all 
hockey fans are finding themselves quite surprised by the season so 
far, considering that usually strong Detroit is in dead last while the 
perennial celler-dwelling New York Rangers are tied for first. Locally, 
the Pittsburgh Hornets are riding high in first place in the AHL, but 
will soon find wins hard to come by because of the player loss they 
experienced last week.
In basketball, the Philadelphia 76ers have raised peoples eye
brows from coast to coast by winning 24 of their first 26. Paced by 
71 Wilt Chamberlin, the 76ers appear to be ready to take over the 
limelight so long held by the Boston Celtics. In semi-pro action, UCLA, 
showed why they are ranked number one in their first performance 
by downing highly rated Southern Cal.. Their highly rated seven foot 
sophomore Lew Alcindor shattered the all-time UCLA game-scoring 
record in his first varsity game by scoring 56 points.
TDP "A"___________11 6
Eigenrac___________17 9
Donner Dorm 300a. 3 13
EJs ____________2 14
Split League
The EJs B moved into a tie 
for first place with a 4-0 win 
over ATO. DTD A held on to 
the other half of first place with 
a 4-1 victory over the Grads 
Nads, the Nads single point com
ing from a fine 871 game. In the 
battle for last place, TDP B 
took honors by losing three out 
of four to BTP B.
Standings: W L
DTD A __________ 12% 3%
EJs B-----------------12% 3% i
Grad Nads__________ 9 7
ATO _________________ 7 9
BTP B ------------------- 5 11
TDP B __________ 2 14
TOP INDIVIDUAL AVERAGES Standings: W L
1) Rosenfeld __________DU 174
2) Lipman ....................BSP 173
3) Nadeau __________EJs A 171
4) Douds ..............EJs A 171
5) Miller .......................JDTD A 168
TOP TEAM AVERAGES 
Standings: W L
1) EJs A .....-- 814
2) DU ----------------------------------768
3) DTD A ____________ 762
4) DSP----------------------------- 753
5) TDP A, ________________742
With only one regular season 
match to play, things ai*e tight 
in all three leagues. In the Strike 
League, the battle for xirst place 
between the EJs A and DU 
will commence, the loser auto
matically taking over second. In 
the Spare League, any of three 
teams, BSR, TDP A, and SN, 
can take first. Tau Delta and Be
ta Sig fight it out with each other 
while SN should have an easy 
time with the EJs C. In the 
Split League, it looks as though 
DTD A and the EJs B will 
tae first and second places. How
ever, the Grad Nads have a re
mote chance for a playoff berth 
should either DTD or the EJs 
have a particularly bad week.
Water Polo
Atlantic League
BSR is off to a fast start with 
big victories over DTD, 7-2, and 
PKT, 10-2. ATO also looks strong 
on the grounds of their 10-1 win 
over DTD. DU lost a squeaker to 
SN White by a 1-0 score bu^
s'
Tau Delt Downs GSIA
then came back to defeat thQ 
Grads, 8-1. In the only other 
game, PKT handed the Grad Nads
their second lossin a rowby a
4-3 score.
Standings :wL
BSR ........................._ 20
ity A"..........r._ 10
SN "White" _____ 10
DU __________ 11
PKT ......................._ 11
Grad Nads _______ 02
DTD ........................__ 02
Pacific League
Fifth seeded TDP looksgood
after victories over SAE, 5-2, and 
GSIA, 2-1. After an impressive 
10-4 win over SN Gold, PiKA 
found themselves shut out by 
GSIA 5-0. In other action, SAE 
lost their second game without a 
win, this time to ATO B by a 
4-0 score.
Standings:
TDP
(Continued on Page 9)
