VOL30. NO. 5CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 29; 1935
Carnegie Host 
To Scientists 
Of District
Hold Organization IMeet 
for Allegheny Section
Of S. P. E. E
VOL-3O0- .N55CACR 
RENGRNI ASTUCIFGA
Program Includes Addresses 
By Prominent Industrial. 
Educational Leaders
Carnegie will act as host to 
many of the leading scientists, and 
engineers in the. tri-state district 
at Ibe organization meeting oi the 
Allegheny section of the Society 
or tbe Promotion of Engineering 
iEducation. This meeting will be 
held in Pittsburgh on Novej 
8 and 9.
The colleges 
sponsoring the 
meeting are .Carnegie,.. Uni
versity of Pittsburgh. Penn State, Bucknell, and University of West Virginia. Professor
Cully, hekd of
Drawing, is In 
, Watkins charge of rangement.> meeting will open formally a luncheon at the University at which Dr. Chorlos Watkins, stltog president o Carnegie, will tie host to the'visiting scientists. Following the luncheon  abort business meeting will be held, and
laent industrial ' and " 'educational leaders. The meeting will be open lo faculty members of ,11 colleges
Carnegie studeatB are Intflwl to attend.
The topic of the Friday afterawrn meeting will be The Work, of lie Engineers Council for Pr< .fessiooal Development/  This o. tUaUon Has '^s :i.ts^alm::the_im-:' fr<nemerit of the' educational'and tirolmlonal standards of: the ' engineering profession. The progress nttfe-lA ifte' pktseveral years' will be discussed by General BI. Rees, vlcc president of the American Telephone and " Telegraph
Ing at Penn State; and ProfeBBor W. W. Hodge of the West Virginia W. W. Hodge of the University, of West Virginia will speak on the Present Stains of State Liscensing of Engineers. Dr. W. E. Wickenden, President of the Case School o( Applied Science, will duscuss The Post-College-'Training  Perio4.'
Attend Little Theater
At 6:30 the visiting educators *111 join with the faculty of the College of Engineering in a dinner at the Carnegie Inn. The speaker *111 be Howard ' N. -Eavenson, Chairman of the' Ailnlng Advisory ward of Gnrnfcgie. - After the din-' ner the group will adjourn to the Ultle Theater to see Antony and Cleopatra. '. .
T,he Saturday morning meeting
Ideas between the represeritaHfes of the different colleges. The "a;  topic oi these tteeltnge l)e "To mat Extent Are ReDevelopments in Engineering fields Included in Preaent-Day >t Study?" The aeries of . . nferences will be organwed about the interests of the folR'iii.5 departments: ElectricalJfineering and Physics, Chemical mg and Metallurgical Engineer's, Mechanical Engineering, Me'lanics and Civil' Engineering, commercial and industrial Eugiwerlng and Shops, Engineering ExEnglish and Engineering
Seniors Granted 
Picture Discount
Appointments Must BeMade 
Before December . 1
'^'reduction of BO cents in the 
? th. 1935-36 Thistle will be tain, t0 51,1 seniors who make apPf  - s?-;the!r pictures --Iw~ * December l. Keith Metom. j11 37  editor-in-chief,' an-^iHiced yesterday. This, reduction 
elfin ?1 because :of a discount rv- e Canton Engraving co. i p.cture in before December -.nee the Thistle willappear 
u.. .e?11,or date than usual. 'Mr. Cutcheoa said, : It is -almost 
Ben' - that al1 Picture appointhe made before-the desd-iii - -18 -a^monti-ewajV!.-holography this year is being 
a pj. . v,e Mei-tn Ballban Studios 'Ulti Avenue. The studio co* only achool annual work. At 
iev V ar also at work on Picturea for the Pitt year rnjv. :lcl-ureB in the new book 
he ^ai1 in the past and
'Wle'ups win be smaller. - ^PPointmenis: for the', senior picW<w ' ' hnv  noon1 atjp^m9gieS.chrlrtlitoiABciation
Executive Board Vot es 
Trial Chang e in Date 
Oi Christmas Mecess
CHAPEL SPEAKER
Second Chapel 
Held in Little 
Theatre Today
Dr; Morledge to Speak; 
Sororities Sponsor 
Days Services 
Dr. J. S. Morledge, a graduate of 
Princeton, and pastor of tbe Sixth 
Presbyterian church, will address 
the students at the second chapel 
service of the year today, 
service will be held at 11:30 In the 
Little Theater io the College of 
Fine Arts. r
In addition to Dr. Morledg1 dd[irae(; the:(atudent body will bs nterCine'd^y^a-:.TOUBcaljprdgria .under thedrection of -the OOepart-. ment of HY,F0P . Florence Ingram, 38, will render, a' violin solo ana Clyde-English-,-'Sfi, wlll-play lection on the organ.
- Todays chapel is sponsored by the intersorority council of which Maude Bowers, 36. Gamma Gamma Gamma, is president.
Dr. Morledge Is well known to many' of the students on campus,
To Enhance 
Arts F oyer
Students Designs Models 
To Fill Wall Niches
th 'main foyer of the College of
The contest calls for original iketches' at a given scale. The contestants. fcav*. the privJlejr* of. select Ing the particular Art to be honored lo the development and execution of the final model.'Jury judgment on this series is called for the latter part of Nov.
series of___________ -ed by the-Department of Sculpture calling for original solutions of a sculptural and architectural nature for Pittsburgh location which at tho-prcsent time, are void of suchenrichment. For tbe students who participate, they offer n opportunity for competition.The problems win call for the visualization and designing of memorjais, statues, monumental groups, fountains, and medals for specific local placement and usage. Students vrlll be given four weeks in which to develop their ideas, work out preliminary sketches and produce'final scale models " *to tlie jury of Award.Members of tlie Jury which Judge the models submitted forthe 
firfcl'in'obfeiw nlng, October
WidneedcF____________ include ElmerStephan. Director of Art of the Pittsburgh Public SchooIs.'^Stanley Roush and' Alexander Sbarove, architects, and Frank Aretz and 
Frank Vlttor. sculptora.
Council Recommendation 
Receives Approval; 
Benefits Many
DATES ARE DEC; 22 
TO JAN. 5 INCLUSIVE
Permanane? of Experiment 
Depends Upon Success 
Of Trial Period
Proposed' changes' In th Christ
mas vacation dates were stamped 
official last Wednesday morning by 
action of the Executive board. Act
ing on the recommendation of Stu
dent Council the Board voted tc 
grant, "experimentally for 1935-36/ 
Councils petition that Chrletmat 
recess begin on December 22 ant 
continue through January 6..
According to Dean A. W. Tarbell, 
secretary of the Executive Board, 
the revised holidy period means 
that the schedule of classes, day, 
evening, and parl-time, will con 
tinue through Saturday, Decembei 
21; also that classes will resume 
at . 8:30 Monday morning, Janu
ary 6."Benefits Majority.
Previous to the Boards recent 
action, the official calendar an
nounced the dates as being. Decem
ber 19 to January 1 inclusive. Stu
dent Council, however, acting fa
vorably on a petition by members 
of the student body, recommended 
that the dates be changed because 
of the benefit that would result to 
the majority of the students.
JDean .R. M. Ihrlg, in an interview, explained that the Christmas change Is official only for this year, as. lt Issomewhat experimental In nature. The subject will have to be.; brought up again when the calendar Is being made up for next year.- That the Board wishes tb Rtudy the .effect .of-the .change: baJ: .tK ChrlStifias employment sUua*'r tlon. Dean lhrlg gave as Its reason for "branding the legislation "experl-aental. .. ''.....................
Council Is Pleased
Student Council President Addlon L. Gilmore wets highly pleased'* that .the Executive Board saw fit to place its stamp of approval on the Council petition. "We, the Student Council, as the elected representatives of the student bod, wish to take such action that will benefit the greatest
a changed Christmas recess and that those who ..wished  to obtain work represented a small minority, the recommendation was made, said Mr. Gilmore. Robert P. Greintr, also a member of Student Coun:11, expressed' himself as being 'extremely gratified that such an idvantageos r vision had been
Only one student.(Wh did notapOve of the change' was Interviewed last week. i don't like the idea. It will cause an inconvenient change In the ptana for Christs which I have already made. Scott Charles '36. Other stuWalter AdiItfits my plans very well. Jack Gardner '87, "I Ireaytily indorse' th change. Now I wont have to cut after Christmas, and Al Schwam
needed boning."
BAND LEADERMilitary Men 
Select Hon. 
Cadet Officers
Present Commissions 
At Annual Ball 
November 8
Halloween 
Spirit Rules 
Eng. Dance:
Town Tattlers'5 to Play;; 
Surprises Promised 
In Entertainment
Saturday, November 2, will find 
tbe Engineers Senate holding thejk 
big dance o'f the year. This dap'ce 
will be an all school dance, with 
the setting In Thistle Kali. 
Halloween mood will predominate, 
and all kinds of surprises la .the 
line of - entertainin' 
pected. ...
. The committee, consisting of 
three members of:the Senate: Rob-, 
ert Greiner "36, chairman; Wlillaih 
Holiday 36, and Lester Van'Vei; 
kehburgh 36, has. obtained Bill LisRoy and his. Town Tattlers for the; 
dance; This orchestra has been 
ipletely organized for nine 
years. ' They feature . Glee Club 
singing with' epcial -arrangements. 
byythe leader.-BllVLeRo^f 
'ganlzationisw^il'Tcnown 
leges of western Pennsylvania-arid'
rrargemento.^:
fissa
the University of .Pittsburgh^
e committee hopes that this, dance will aid In reviving the 0B,P tom of giving dance programs. Patrons forthe dance are': Miss Mary WatBon Green, dean of women. Professor Glendlnnlng-Keeble; Dr.
been announced: -Mr. and Mrs. ence H. Miner, Mr. and Mrs. Rollln V. DavJs, Mr. and Mrs. Kent D. Shaeffer, Major and Mrs. Charles B. Stanton, Mr. and Mrs., Robert D. Gregg, Mr. .and Mrs. R. W. Coleand Mr. and--Mrs., ..John' C.
Mdical Aid Systems To Be Debated Today
There will be a regular meeting 
of the C. I. T. Debating Union toiy;at 11:30 In 'Room.l31C, Tnduslee 'Hall. The subject for debate 
Rolveii-. . "That - the several 
states should' enact legislation proidlng for a system of complete 
icdical service avalJablc to all citsetis at public expense. ,
MAKY WTTACH 
IS, NAMED COLONEL
Tartans Down Purdue 
In Brilliant Battle
CO-ED COLONEL
Margaret Shuhs;, Mary Lord 
Are Majors; Company 
Captains Chosen
> .Mary Wettach has been nnmed 
Honorary Cadet Colonel of the R. 
0.;.',T. C. . Receiving nn 
than any of the other 24 nominees 
jn lust Tuesday's election, Miss 
.Wettach is tbe choice of the Mil
itary Department Cor the highest 
houors It is nble to bestow upon a 
woman student.
v In the  same election two Honorary Cadet MajorB and six Honorary Cadet Captains were also .named. Margaret Shultz '3(> selected ae Honorary Cadet Mojor for the first, batalllon, aud Mi Lord '36 will hold the same posltioi
pnny B; Marjorie Green 36, company C; Henrietta DeHaven .30, company D; Nancy Chancellor 36, company E; and Maud Bowers 3fi. impany F. 'When asked to comment on .her -appointment Colonel Wettach said, 'It ie difficult to express my hap>vl9e. ' Naturally I
and i sincerely thank all the boys of. the R. 0:. T. C." Cadet Colonel -Jack E. McKee 36 said; The Honary. Cadet Officers thiB year
not .know. 'In this year1 Uon.only the advanced mei glyen. a vote, , and .. consenuently they-yoted.for, the candidate of 
bwn'. cliobaing ,Instead' of  one ^mended byi.aq^lWtioRfiaty;:
The Honorary Cdet Officers will
place ,November 6 In Thistle Hall.
Women to Hold 
Tea Preliminary 
To Junior Prom
Today, from 4 oclock until 5:30, 
tlie Junior class of Margaret Morrlin collaboration with -the wo
of the junior class of College 
of Fine Arts, will hold a tea in 
Margaret Morrison Recreation 
Hall. The purpose of the tea Is to get both , junlor^classes well.' organized so that plane for the Womens Junior prom, may be started. Margaret Fitzgerald; vice president' of the Junuir class of Margaret MorvlFihe Arts, will act as co-chairmen ofthe Junior prom committee. At. the tea they will announce the re-of' thu conimittGe;  -iCattf: erine' Schreibeis, treasurer of the junior class in Margaret' Morrison, will announce tlie method of pay: ing for the tickets in several installments.
Mary Wettaeh 36. who has heon 
selected by the Military Depart 
ss.'Honoary Cadet Colonel.
E,C.A. Holds 
First Seminar
Speeches by Prominent 
Worm n Are Features
Better and Safer Aeroplanes Purpose 
Of Experiments Being Conducted in Lab.
- Tartan Positions 
Open to Soph Men
re several vacanthe Tartan staff e open to Sopho-These pos.. 
offer a good chance for ad vancement and-a. chance tc earn some money in the sen 
vear.Any whoU, --------------interested
in this work should report to the Twtan<i.o51c--Friday 
Afternoon or evening. ____
New Type of Aeroplane 
Wing Is Developed 
By H. R, Tucker -
'Better and safer aeroplanes is 
a purpose,; explained Harrison 
R. Tucker, Director of Roseai 
the Rose Aviation Corporation of 
York, as he described 
work -whlcU is now in progress in 
the Aeronautical Laboratory under 
his direction.' Mr. Tucker Is ' prl1 
marlly iintTestea in "th inye^ligatlon of multiple slot air foils,' using the wind tunnel for his expert:
practically double the speed, range of the plane.- thefeby .permitting higher top speeds'and lower landr Ing speeds. In other words, by Improving the efficiency ,.of . a  wing, we can take off more.qulckly. fly faster while-we^are in-^he -air.- -and land more slowly and snfely in a smaller space. Such characterlstIesirable In an aerovlce-.or
in PeansyJvanb--'. Investigations inel are also-hein----------improved* * controldevldes  Wnich will permit more positive control of aircraft under all-flight'conditions.
NEW WING BEING DEVELOPED HERE
is now being develop olurmi-wtilt tmtv; m, by action of the wind
of control will not operale satisfactorily at low flying, speeds.".Mr. Tucker, when-his present
ligtt-plane; which .will be wlthont sacrificinglow "landing speed.;, and - will also., be as: foolhas been ln progress for . the Iaat tbree years.-: Previous to hls: atTlvahere.i Wr..Tuclf $r.,waa. in. .Neva -York carryingiforward; his -investigations at Nev .YorkUniversity. The. Rose Corporation: with which 
Mr.Tucker
Mrs. Grace L. Elliott, w member 
of the National Board of Young 
Wpmon's Christian Associations, 
wiil lead a discussion on Living 
Crsotlyoly in the Modern World," 
first Intercollegiate seminar 
of the year to b.e held, on the .Car
negie Campus. Students from the 
University of Pittsburgh and tl\e 
Pennsylvania College for Women tnlned hy the Menen's'
vember 5.Elliot's discussion will concern friendships between men and ;  " fraternity and aororlty loyalties, student  faculty relationships, and family loyalties. Mrs.
Ithin us? Why do we fail do what we want to do?? How shouldwe deal wllh the blues? and How can our fullest possibiliAdolesithe Dcpartmeni >.)' Social Work at Carnegie; D, sii|.iii<.mentary'readRegistration, and !l'<e first half of
eminar, which will continue until 9:00.Louise Meixner 36, of Carnegie, is general chairman of ihe committee in charge of Llie.seminar. Other members are:- Carol Ford of tlie Pennsylvania College for Womeo, Noi:a"Monl(s,' of tlie University dfPittsburgh, and Robert Coblentz 36, president of the Men's Chris; tian Association of Carnegie.
Orville Fay Wins 
Honorary Award 
Of Pi Tau Sigma
 Pi Tau Sigma, honorary Mechanical Engineering fraternity and', a member of thev American Society of Mechanical Engineering
inghighest in his class. - It is-of* fered to stimulato the interests of the freshmen In the field of[ Meuhav\i\. Engftrasrfttg: Th--award' this vear goes to. Orville Craig Fay who has mainatlned an .average of 3.63 for his freshman -year. Honorable mention goes to Sam Gioi dnii who held , an average of 3.026 ae a freshman last year.
ihe American Society of Meehanon Tuesday;' October 29, in1^Room
Rosenthal Scores on Matelans Pa6s as Purdue Faile 
To Solve Inspired Plaid Offen6e; Matelan, 
Spisak Star in Turning Back Two Drives
By Johnny Weinberg
Upsetting all the smart money, Carnegieb fighting football 
t*an\ shocked a crowd of 20,000 homecomere in Lafayette last 
Snturday when they decisively beat the Purdue Boilermakers, 
7-0..
Hardly concedcd n chance even by their own ooach who& 
main objective was to fecep the score down, the Plaid set out 
with a determined effort to make goodrond they did A tlurtyvnrd pass from Mutelnn which was caught by Qene Rosenthal,
hot the Skibos up'to glorious heights.  ........>s ,'.
Gene received the ball over tlio heudB of a surprised Purdiio 'sec*; , ondary.and started olt at full spee^: for that precious goal line. Tom McGannon the Boilermaker anfety man was tho oply one: between Ro-: senthal nnd hls objeotlve.  It . apGreek Life 
Summarized 
In Booklet
Interfraternity Council 
Distribu tes Copies 
To All Plebes
Explaining to tho parents of 
freshmen' what fraternities mean 
iu tho campusillfo of the sLudentn, 
the new . Intorfraternlty booklet 
\vill nppenr in approximately two 
weeks. ' According to Edltor-lnchlcf Alvin Gursha, the phaiuplet 
will he. dedicated to the freshman 
class aiid will contain letters of In
troduction from Actlng-preklont 
Charles Watkins and Dean A. W. 
Tarbell. \;
The booklet will be different in style from the one published last being. somewhat larger In size patterned, along' the: lines of the Carnegie.. Magazine. Doth Interior and exterior views of tho fraternity hha^ti..V|iin U%.bhowu with a brief wrlteup!-:;of'_each fraternity.'
Copies; of rtheipamphlet will .be given;-to all'freshmen and In add!<
puvpQSO ofthis  yearshook-. is te familiarize the-parents-of-prospec* tlve ruehees-with1 the.phases of fraternity life,! including 'the cost : of being a, member. Tables of sample ilaca will be . given.' .
Why Join a. fraternity? and Fioternity activity In all fields: the titles, of two articles which will appear In the new issue.
Included on the staff which 1a responsible '. for publishing
manager; editorial. board: IrvingTwo Trustees 
GhosenOct. 15
Former President Baker 
Gets Appointment
Institute of Technology ,nt ing of the board on October 15. - Dr. Baker, who recently 'resign
R. A. Franks; Mr. Lehman will succeed his brother, the late Albert C. Lehman, who died last March* At present, Dr. Baker is in retirement, convalescing from his vecent Illness,. but he hopes lo return to active duty In the near future.Mr. Lehman wa'B born and rearedin Pittsburgh. He was educated at local elementary and secondary schools,-completing his formal.education at the Park Institute. Since that :tlme. he has become. Increasingly-Prominent.. in .IndustrW. af*. fairs. In March; 1935, upon the death of.his.brother Albert C. Lehman, he succeeded to the presidency of the Blaw-Knox Steel Comrany, having served up to. thatinbervice presldent.and of the board of trustees. At'Pn ent he is also director of numerous corporations and banks.Mr.vLehman has always .been In* terested '.in social and - philanthropic work. . He., was one of the 'founders 'bi the Tederatlbn. of ITewislt. Philanthropies and a past diof the Pennsylvania. Public. Chanties and the. Pittsburgh Housing Association.
C.W.C.A. Will Hold 
Dinner for Freshmen
A dinner will be given by the .C. W. CA. tomorrow at five-thirty in Recreation hall, in Margaret Morritoppled Rosenthal on the Purduo lC-yard line but the Carnegie .half baok stumbled, regained his-broken--. stride and' continued on .over the goal line standing, up. Spieqtfs perfoot plaoemont .i accounted for the extra polnt. . .
The Sklbos dominated thO1 game In tho first qunrtor,.voat hnoA-oirtho. hnunchos and watched-Purduoshoot an unsuccessful bolt In: thd second nnd third, periods; nnd then ^ stopped hack Into the ploture. in the last quarter and remained .that . way until the final, gun.
parting out like a house-ailre,.: the Plaid missed a score 1n the first tow mlnuteB ot.plny by a maTRln Inches. After an--exchange
quick kick by Charley. Splsak^-Bent. the hall from his .own 2B 'marker;to tho Purdua E-yard line, t The .boilermaker's roturn lclck curried to tho . mld-fleld area and wlth a. series quick flat passesj Spisak to Bowser :;: 
(Continued from Pag Threel ,
Election Heidi 
By Freshmes1
14 Officers Are Cboseai 
To Lead Activities'
. Fourteen-freshmen-were elecled': 
to class offices in the three col-' 
leges for the current year in .-last ' 
Tuesdays elections. As a result pf^. 
tbe Bpcclal election In Margaret-.. 
Morrison; Clara Hall 29L elected : senate representative of .the senior ., class to succeed Sara Crlllman,-' who has resigned.Thro prealtjonlp. .vice pr^dents, /' secretaries, and treasurers, were^-:. chosen.: while. Margaret:- MorriBon1' - freshmen elected.. in addition.- a-r, soimte representative, and a social, chairman. .A plurality..rather than a major, ity. of votes cast, constituted a:can-: . (11 dates election. According to the 
tellers, the voting-v?ry closed - In' most cases ' 1 -.. The newly-elected ofacers are as*, follows: In the. College. of :EBgl*vjnoerlng: president. Harvev t NSis: ' vice president, WlUiam A. Smith*, -, secretary. Richard N. Craig;, tree**: Edward McCarthy. - In: tbe College of Fine Arts: presldeni^Maxwell Lick: Jr.: vice president.:- E. Fry: secretnry. jane' S^ai^ : treasurer. bdWard Rosenth&ll;.v:^ Margaret Morrison' Carneglef/' College: president, Eleanor Bright;'.*:: vice president. Nancy. ' McKenua:u..v secretary.. Margery  McCay: senate epresentatlvd. Betty..Stevene: <:HO*.:<.. clal chairman.. Ruth  Brahtner;.- ; eaeurer. Bettv Niedhamner.i'Those officcrG : will siiperviBOrv.-'; class' activities - in theirrespectiy :hoolR. andwll; .constitute the..-" jmmittee in: change ofarrange-1?? enls for tbe Freshman All-Carnecie Dance. '. . - 
Russia Theme Of is 
Citmas Club Talk
Members Uear Illustrated 
Lccture by Dr. Frocbt
Opening its lv36-36 season, ithe .;
beginning of tbe meeting;.'The ........... ......be an ........Max FrochL Department of .Mecbanlcs. . Dr. -.Frocht,'- .who ..will;: speak on his impressions ot.Russl^spent :some  time; - in hat; country.] last sumiper.i .^Motion pictures jiolA .... Russian life taken ou:his -I-,200 trip through;, the-country -are tofbeg:^
the Citmas club roster. --
es during the scbool. year^hfB;^ n on the campus for a numb^fj'ii... i/eara. Its purposeis .to.foBtebig._good. - fellowship be tweenthe ulty and: student:members,On the: coxnmitteeiihlch jlsj li^ji.srbarw of the meetings Jtor 1malnder 1 ofthe'- yeto. :v .C.^-Wv.wLarkin. J. C-- Jeffrlee^ Ri A'. i*isher,^ij E-- GOlds. C: Overend. Ii'rH. I let R. V Davis, and CGI neUs

---------------------------------------------------

MS'
Be In Style; 
Get Welfare 
Feather iNow
I '
'They Identify Community 
Fund Contributors 
On Campus
FACULTY RETURNS 
ALREADY MOUNTING
Carnegie Drive Concludes 
Tuesday$1 Individual 
:. ?  Goal is Sought
A feather in your hat is going to : be quite the thing at Tech during _ this week and ..next, for. the feethTartan to PublishAlumni News Page
___ it with the BUS of Carnegie Tartan news of alumni and alumni affairs will be published monthly in an alumni page which '* ippear in The Tortnn on Noer 12, December 16, January 14, February 18, March 10, April 7, May 6, and May 26.
This i
ni news, at regular intervals. TbeiTartan is mailed to all paid menibers of Alumni Association end alumni should keep
Students will 'be contacted volunteer .workers from the three colleges. "Deltere urging their sup* port have been sent to'all fraternities by Richard W. Hammond '36, ',tudqqt head of the Community Fuad move at Carnegie Tech.
Faculty' returns are .already inoliniing. ah'd it is hoped that student cooperation wlU be equally whole-hearted.
'Report meeting for.workers will beh<?ld at the'Faculty room in Curijegie inn today end Thursday at ii: 30-1:30. Workers may buy their lunch at the cafeteria and eat up. etalre at the meeting.
 vCwV S. Coier, mauager, Educa. 'tlooal Department of the WestingJiouse Electrical and Manufacturing ;Company,'"will speak at the meeting today. On Thursday the speaker Will be Prank J. Chesterman,1 v^ce.presldent and General Manager of the Pittsburgh Bell Telephone.
' By contributing to the Commun itv. Fund, students will aid the . Christian Association as well as the  8St-organizations represented by the: Fund. The various affairs . eponsoTod by the Christian Association include the Thanksgiving and V Christmas meals-for students staying at achool over the holidays, the -v fi:8hm?n-'.dlnner and get-together,1' nt>Vithe annual Cook Forest trip;  : > The work performed by the mem-- :i^er.Organizations'of the Fund Is .--humane and vitally necessary. 'hiOarnegie8 drive ends on November 6. at which time It Is hoped that our quota of $6,000 will have ; been ^ reached and surpassed. An individual goal or one dollar per ^student has been set by workers,
Aeronauticals
Tour Plants
Seniors Inspect Ohip 
Aircraft Factories
live the regular weekly issues of the paper but once each month te Alumni Federation will have page of its own.
We hope that all alumni will cooperate in making this page a success, Any information concerning of Carnegie Tech will be welcome and suggestions for the improvement of the new page in The Tartan will be appreciated. All alumni should work for the sueof the Federation.
CLARENCE OVEREND, Alumni Executive Secretary.
Approximately. 16_ students of tbe'D^^tment.,-.Dfrr'; Aeronautic?, rwiII leave next, Tuesday on an in, spectlon trip of Ohio aircraft plants unflec the supervision of Professor Tliorp. ,-v The purpose is to acquaint the ; students  with work done, in the . .aeronautical research laboratories, - pd to show themthe various man.Viifactiirlng and - .engineering pro' .^:jcBses entering'into' the'design and conatruction of airplanes.:;i;V>;The flrflt day, Wednesday, will be  spent visiting the Research and Ex^perimental Departi **
tc.Obio:-The Overhaul and. Maintenance Air Depot at Falrfleld, Ohio,. . and the Waco Aircraftt Company atTroy, 'Ohio, will be inspected later r.-iV th,; day; the Waco Alrcrafi Company builds many of the small  commercial planes sold in America 
j.an^abroad,;.fc.OnThurs
;';inWct Corporation' plants at Cleveland Ohio: at this plant military and -'cpiamercial planes are built.-. Goodyear plants atAkroi ;iiiy:,be' visited; also.V -jDuring a similar trip takei;. Spring, contacts made in Phi pfcia. Baltimore, and Washii - br foiir of !aet year> senior -- Fulted, in,their employment, at the Naval Aircraft' Factory ^ In Pliila* elpfeia. These graduates have*
Ohio,
Dances Given 
By Sororities 
End Saturday
Buffet Suppers Saturday 
Evening Conclude 
Rushing Season
ast Friday the first formal ce of the sorority rushing seain the College of Fine Arts
dancenlng at the P. A. A. also. Alpha Kappa P9I plan to bave their rush' ig formal Friday at the Chatterid the Gamma Gamma Gamdance will take place at the P.box,
Saturday. Each of the will hold a buffet supper on Sunday evening.
The rushing season will be officially closed at 12:30 a, m., Sunday evening, being terminated by
COEDS TAKE OVER CONTROL OF R. O. T. C.
Music Group 
To Broadcast 
Over WWSW
>i-:
Captains Maud Bower;
snted with their commie-1 Mary Lord, Colonel Mary Wettach, Captains Eleai adlhg from Wt to-right:] Lehr, and Nancy Chancellor. Major Margaret Sc
Point System 
Hinders Girls
Students Show Keen Interest 
In Dormitory Dancing Class
Council Grants Special 
Concession to Nine
Student Council recently reslvcd petitions from a number of 
girls from Margaret Morrison and 
the College of Fine Arts asking 
that they be allowed to participate 
in more activities than the 'Womens Activities Point System permits. The Student Council voted on the petitions and granted Beatrice Archer '36, Dorotha Bateman '36, Dorothy Booth '37, Maude: Bowers 36, Sarah Crillmn 36, Sue Fuller 36, Betty Hawthorne '36,
more office than that stated by the
Fifty Present at First 
Meeting10 Lissons 
Are Planned
Fifty students turned out for the first dormitory dancing class' last Wednesday in Thistle Hall. These
who wish to improve' their dancing may'attend. A series of ten lessons has been arranged at thirty ints each for the men and free for the girls.
Carmollta JacqueB 38, Dpartent of Drama, le In charge of th directing. She Is a professional
Activities System.
MOTIONLESS MOTION DEMONSTRATED
Is bringing for demonstration.
House of Magic Exhibition 
Will Be Here Tomorrow
fifteen started. on a. one-year apprentice .course which will take them tturought the'prinlcpal departments ; ofvthe factory, giving them.experieiice. that it would take many more p-years to-acquire In any. other manner, according to Professor Thorp.
Glider Club Hears 
Well Known Pilot
Dr. Lange Talks on Gliding 
An Aid to Meteorology
beeh asked by the Carnegie Tech Glider club to give a few lectures at Carnegie on gliding and soaring as a method of carrying on research neteorology Dr Lange Is an expert soaring pilot, and Is director of the Soaring Society of America.-Gssaectear . -wij. .itoth harvard University and Massachulast anuary Victor M Saudek afl, SsIei Jta ? presidents Twelve of , the thlrt members are -now able to Allot a glider. The. ship now used w^s given to the.club by the WeBtln&houde Glider Club: but : plans
uj be entered in the lsa7 Soaring
G.-E. Engineer to Show 
Scientific Wonders 
In Union Hall
irtalnlng demonstrations . contained in General Electrics House 6f Magic" at the Worlds Fair. Herbert Du Val, Jr.; of the G-E research laboratory In S.chenectaoy will conduct the demonstrations. '
. The stroboscope;  with  its "mo-- tionlcss motion; audible light
'electric eye." will be part of Mr.
wall in the form of parti-colored llsht. The current from the phono-- graph pick-up Is al arranged as to
the notes - of the phonograph record. When this beam is focused on a phototube pick-up the light is once more turnedInto music. - The sound can be Interrupted by -Interception of' the beam at anytune. Bv using a disk. and. .Q2r_UflU?_mtflrcentlneL tha Jiefim. oi. light Mr. Du Val produces wliat he. terms "saxophone music with a scalloped edge.  f : -* l-he-stroboscope will present one of the .mostfascinating exhibitions. It consists of a long dark cylinder containing a neon lamp, -going on and oft 60 times a secondA; disk is .rotated by a motor at high speed .so that figures painted oh-Ite faces  are  blurred in. ordinary light... . In .the:, lights of the
still. The stroboscope demonstrates how studied for defects while traveling at tremendous A high-frequency set in the form of an inductotherm, which resembles a miniature broadcasting station, will be used by Mr. Du Val to show how me effects of the artificial fever machine are utilized in - the treatment of disease. Plaiu glass tubes, with gases sealed inside, light up when brought into the field of the radiations on incandescent lamp, held in demonstrators hand but connected' to no current supply, theless be lighted when brought into the high-frequency field. Other experiments which will be
Incandescent lamp into sound which flicker off 120 times a second: for the human, eye to observe but
ied about with him. Since the demonstrations will last'only about one hour it is hoped that
Dancing Class
FOR BEGINNERS 
* Taught by
Carmollta Jacques 
THISTLE HALL
Every Wednesday Evening 6:308:15
Admission foi Men, 30c 
v Women Free
Col. Fairley 
Talks on War
'ho will recel1 structlons until girls, arrive. For the
preliminary inhour oil further instructions tunity to practice the steps they have learned.
During the coming weeks, Miss Jacques and the Mens Dormitory
ents. These will be announced :a later;date.,: .'. ;; "    .These dancing 'classes, are. twoid. In purpose. , First they offei students who cannot dance, or -who would like to improve,.a chance learn the essentials of. good danc-. Ing. Secondly they give students a chancc to bocome acquainted with those of the opposite sex.
Connecticut Clan 
Has Homecoming
Football Luncheon Planned 
For Holy Cross Gam
wald, Elm St.,. Stonlngton; treasurer, H. Rosenberg, 260 Westlald St.,-Hartford; financial secretary, August ,W. Kann, Hilltop  Drive.
Hartford; assistant . .........secretary,- Catherine Stevenson, 12 Westfield Road, W. Hartford.In addition to the regular Clan reunions, a luncheon haa been planned ' to precede the CarnegleHoly Cross gnme. The luncheon will be held at the Bancroft Hotel Saturday, Nov. 9, in Worcester,
vili be in attendance.
Dine at
KAHNS GRIIL
Murray Avenue and Darlington
Home Cooked Food 
Moderate Prices
No Cover Charge
a friend 
' *
MELLON W!Gm 
BANK
Advocates Reasonable 
Preparedness in U.S.
Colonel George EA. Fairley, superintendent of buildings and grounds,. was one of the principal peakers'at the Panel on War sponsored by the American Youth Congress and held at Taylor AHderdice High school on October 24. Colonel Fairley, who is chairman of the Americanization and National Defense committee of the Allegheny County council of the Veterans of Foreign Wars, spoke on *he subject of military preparedAdvocating reasonable preparedness, Coloney Fairley .said I bave seen war and war. conditions at first hand ... I am against the whole dirty, filthy mess, but I iot fool enoughto believe tha.vlng of inagic' the passing of some fancy ldealtic resolutions by. a church group Kany .other group!, will prevent a ar, as.long as national greed and jealousies aro present to create }. Therefore I am In favor American army for defense \ poses, ready to put down by foi any group attack upon our cc try.* . :
national defense.
standing army, but to take ^h.e vital needs of furnishing offlthe Reserve Officers Training Corps, as now being developed in those of our colleges and universities where attendance is complete-, ly voluntary. Is an ideal arrangecountry organlattonJMentioning the present troubled onditlons in Europe and Africa, he colonel said. "If Europe wants o commit suicide let her do It, But let us etay home,i business, and keep c
Bacchanalians 
Make Plans, 
Elect Officers
WoTk on Annual Comedy 
For Spring Carnival 
* To Begin Soon
Bacchanalians, student dramatic 
group, held their first meeting last 
Monday in the Little Theater, Col
lege of Fine Arts. At this meeting 
a committee was named to handle 
the executive and business end of 
the production which the Bacchans will give during Campus 
Week. Thomas Kohler 37, 
named chairman of this con 
tee; Susan Carter 38, will, assist 
Miss Elizabeth Schrader, costumlere for the Department of Drama; and Douglas Pannier, 38,
work.. Carl Dozer 3G, past president of this group, announced that the play for this-year has not yet been selected, but will be presented on the third day. . of Spring Carnival usual.Those' who remember "Tar and Feathers, "Over the Coals, '*Lo'Is Not Important," and Shining Armor" are looking forward to this years
.imbeds .... chiefly interested In the technical end of producing plays. If here
done oh the next Campus Week production, Mr. Kohler would glad to interview them. Student Council grants an Activities Key for two years service with
Tech BarberShop
Craig and Forbes 
Oakland
Four Color Art Process
Is Feature of Yearbook'
Symphony Orchestra Is 
On Air in VCAE 
Studio Opening
Tomorrow night at 11:15 the 
eighty piece Symphony Orchestra, 
of the Department of Music, under 
the leadership of . Prof. J. Vick 
Brlen, will' broadcast a short 
usical . program ..from the Cargie Music Hall through the facll 
itie? of -WWSW. This, program 
will/, be held as an introductory 
tribute to i WCAE on the opening 
of tbelr new studios. In the William 
Hotel,' and the official dedi
cation of :their new high power
Tchaikovskys Plano Concerto. Th orchestra will present Oyerto Euryanthe by Weber, and ' '  ' 'by HalThe Phonogragh Recitals which ere inaugurated last -year will again be1 sponsored by the faculty of the shaoi Department. The first meeting, of this year will take place Monday afternoon at 4:80 the Exhibition room. . Qtbor meetings will follow on Wednesday and Friday.All Btudents on the campus who -e interested in these muBic appreciation .hours are urged to be present on Monday at 4:30, so that their ideas and suggestions may be porated in the years program of music. Mr. Keeble, Mr. OBrien and Mr. Pearson will again be in harge of the programs.
Will Include Hans Platos 
Sketches-All Classes ; 
To Have Queens
Nino drawings by Hans Plato ' 
nationally known artist, will be oq  
of the chief attractions of the 193$. ^ 
36 Thistle, Editor Keith _ 
Cutcheon .37, announced yester > 
day. Mr. Flato, who is a coma' \ 
cial artist, does covers for several ^ 
lorge publications including ColIiers end Cosmopolitan.
For the first time in the bisloty 
of the Thistle, art work will cmny 
done in four colors. The four color process according to Mr. 
Cutcheon, Is very involved aud expensive, uiuult out of proportion 
to a process using only two or three colors.  A modernistic theme will predominate both the art work' aud the entire boob.
Four queens, instead of two a last year, will feature this years beauty section. . The new-comers will be a sophomore queen and a freshman queen. These, together with the Thistle queen, presented for the first time last year, win ^ elected by the male element of the College of Engineering and the College of Fine Arts. The Thlelle staff will petition Student Council to hold a straw vote for this pur. pose. Upon being asked wby 170- men .will not b.e allowed 10 vole for these queene, Mr. McCutcheon plained that the staff did not consider the girls as competent judgee of feminine beauty as the men. Also included in this section will be" the Campus queen who will ba. elected as usual.The plaid cover will be usei again on this years book, it is being uBed in an attempt to create a traditional cover for the Thistle. The plaid Is the most
ST. ANDREWS LUTHERAN CHURCHentrMwi Morewccd Avenues - HNRYO. ECKHARDT, PastorSunday Morning Worship, 10:46 A. M.Sunday School, 9:30 A. M.Young People's Hour every alternate Sunday, 7:15P. M.(Nov.TWO STOBES IN PITTSBURGH 
345 Fifth Avenue 6212 Penn Avenue
EASY WAY TO CONCENTRATE..AND AN EASY WAY 
TO ENJOY A PIPE
WOODPECKER 
PECKS HOLE IN 
SACK OF PEAS . 
PEAS DROP ON 
DISHPA^T (f) . 
WEATHER INDI
CATOR. THINKS 
IT'S RAINING 
AND SHIFTS TO 
RAIN* RELEASING 
MOUSE IN TRAP 
^6). MOUSE TAKES 
ELEVATOR  TO 
CHEESE  EATS 
AWAV CHEESE 
WHICH LINES 
.BLOWTORCH UP 
WITH CHAIN 
AND CUTS CHAIN. 
THUS HORSE 
COLLAR AND 
BLINOtRS -() 
ARE DROPPED 
OVER STUDENT
I GET AROUND 
FIFTY SWEU. SMOKES 
FROM THE BIG 
2-OUNCE TiN OF 
PRINCE ALBERT. 
THERE ISNV A 
SETTER SMOKE 
>OIN' THAN P.A.I

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY. OCTOBEB 29. 1935
T A R T A N
SAUCE
?
By Scotty Charles
THEY DONE IT AND WE'RE GLAD. Once every season the Car
rie Tech football team comes from out of nowhere and plays the 
football of which It Is capable. Two years ago they beat a good Notre 
gain recognition, last year they defeated the strongest 
that school, and nowPurdue.
fed TECHS WERE RATHER INCONSIDERATE. Last week we 
made the rounds trying to Sod out what was the matter with the 
local footballers when all of a sudden we And that they have been good' 
timejust a little modest, thats all. We were told previously 
ils season tbat those defeats of ours were cases, of fair teams defeat
ing a good team playing lousy football. So It seems, Abercrombie, so
WHAT GIVES CAUSE FOR CAROUSING Is the fact'that the Plaid 
on not by getting a break and laying down to hang on^to It, but by 
playing straight, bone crushing ball that left the managers swoonl 
A glance at the rough calculations shows that the sklbos did as y 
as the Boilermakers In every department. Even the kicks averai 
47.4 yards which Is some dribbling In any league.
SEVERAL QUESTIONS OP ETIQUETTE were neatly solved 
Ibis fray. It seems tbat previously the boys considered It only cricket 
a a man for three plays in succession If he gained on the first 
Now that this tradition has been reorganized we want to compii; DeQt Charley Spisak on bis swell, and decidedly unique, quarterbacktag, quick kicking and gnral work on the field.
ALSO UNDER THE HEAD OF MISCELLANEOUS compliment: 
mes Henrion for his ace work at tackle, a position he . has learned 
play well In four games; Matetan, for his sweet running;. Patt, for 
his handling of the end post, and Rosenthal for his being cnclderate 
enough to cateh Jerrys pasa and cross the stripe. We al6o wai 
thank and send regrets to Purdue's Mr. McGannon, who saved us 
Blderable embarrassment and the bother of celebrating only a moral 
.victory.
THE STENTATORIAN TASKS OF BEATING the Black and Gold 
bandied mostly by what hare been coyly called reserves. They' all 
played swell ball and deserve lots of credit for their work through it 
ffould lake a little too long to commend them all Individually. It 
9 indeed, a Bevere shock to: the Tartan rooters to learn that there 
I some reserves and 'whats moregood ones.
IF THE BOYS'WILL* BE GOOD ENOUGH In the future as to tell 
just when they are going to'do this sort of thing, we would be only 
 happy to lay a few potatoes on the line at thoqo Juicy odds of 5 to 
I am giving away my 6tudent pass to the Rose Bowl tb'the person 
supplying this Information. The line will kindly form In the new Bell 
Tower.
IT SEEMS LIKE WE JUST CANT get our minds off the Purdue 
n. The tackles were functionipg neatly and, being the fundamentals 
any defense, had.a. big part in the victory. There is still lots -more 
at could be said about the meet, but we pass the dice and apologies. 
P. S. Wero not done yet Add many thanks to Wally Steifan, ex-Tech 
tutor, for moral support. He was reputedly the most jubilant cele* 
brator.
AND NEXT, DUQUESNE or Through the Big City With Gun and 
Camera. We dont want to be nasty, but It seems that the Duquesnes 
just cant take a joke and are a bit peeved about th Plaid vieto 
last year. In fact, thre le 6ome talk of revtnge. We are not 
itctlng this game at all. Last week, we predicted a Purdue victory 
j jut, fortunately, the Item was cut The prsent reasoning IsIf you 
iredlct you arent wrong so oftenget It, Mr. C.. Smith?
Fighting Scots in Action as Boilermakers Are Downed
'-'f
KK .& <, \ V t  f
If V
f - :  ! " :p.-
* i v ,2 A ' * v r , 
Sklbo gladiatore downed Purdue Saturday. Tartan linemen have Pur-1 Carnegie player Is executing an attack from the r
Future Foes 
Win Contests
Holy Cross, Pitt Win; 
Time Out For Dukes
have perked up their ears at Carnegies win over Purdue while Tech is practicing anew and awaiting the future contests. Holy Cross won over Colgate to the tune of 3-0 this past-Saturday. Although played throughout
ed victory from the flro by kicking a field goal from the 25-yard stripe. This victory kept the Ilitoly Cross
week ago In their tie game /with  Manhattan. Duquesne this past week-end rested up for Carnegie game this week and can be expected to put up a good fight after losing Borne of their r< games. Pitt was extended Saturday OV their game with Penn State but finally winning 9-0. Penn State was a tower of strength on defense and.had the Panther rooters frantlcal at the half when the score was 0-0. However, in the third quarter the Lions were tiring out and Pitt scored a field goal with a touchdown following in the fourth 
quarter. _______________
Tartans Down 
Purdue In Grid 
Battle Royal
(Continued From Page One.) 
ind Bowaer to Splsaft, the TartanB 
back on the Purdues 20. Two 
by Nanotnlk and Bowser 
nought the ball to the one-yard 
and then -with goal to go and 
ibe last down coming up Napotniks 
Jnal try was just. shpri by six 
Mhe?.. Purdues fillef:jxra short 
feed when once, again the Tartans 
noved down the field, but the Boll(makers stiffened for a moment the 20-yard line. Spisaks ipt for a field goal from the d marker waa short and Purdue gained theball on their own 20.I short time later thePlaid came nthla inches of scoring when. Joore tnleaed -Splsaks lorig pass In ie clear and on the: ten.
Coach Klzer hastily repiacid .his hock trops In the second' period tod the Boilermakers smarted to to town. Led' by the  touch*. ft twine, Isbell and McGanbon, roue marched' steadily from Heir oT7B\ five-yard line, ninety Jjraa without losing the ball once ^llh a score Insight. on the final of the drive,  Steve Trbovich ted down a short pasa in theiweer zone. Fighting back fierce/> the Tartans marched-back to 
 mldfleld, before Mateian  .was orced to punt. Isbells return punt j  fumbled by Matelan on Carne26-yard line when he wbb Jed fiercely. Ptfrdue once,more plAces^.and ,cnoe . Scotch stopped theiu-on m five-yard .marker,.' V.--:.-.;- 
I the fourth quarter, eairie'the^ . 8Core Mi a inost unfortunate JWk for the unlucky BoilermakSplsak punt'ed.to the^Purdue 7 where McGannoncaughtllt o run; By . the; ihelp' - of' excel* I u lnlei-ference all lthe 'Carnegle lets were swept out'tit his way. 
... . clear. with a smile - of satis* !!pn,.he ntarted.loplfcff-'Ws way ward the Tech goal. With not a 
71 ln hla way or on hie trackball h,l8udden Mr. McGannon took a S!ITlvU8 Brodle and with that fall the Pudue hopes. : From then 
ho WaB Carnegie, and''with final gun. the vTaTtana; swooped
5   twjftWSrHFVfeler got on.his train and read
'i all elso (all., thri oatb,t lg QTerIs never crowded, vYouT >
ANNOUNCING
GRAND OPENING 
THURSDAY, OCT. 31
Pittsburgh's Most Elaborately 
Appointed Dinner & Supper Club
The old Room
Extraordinary Engagement
Joe! CandulS
And His N.B.C. Band Direct From
EAINBOW BOOM, BADIO CITY
Make Reservations gl,er.-z 3700 
Minimum Charge, $1.50 per person 
"Gold Room" Opena 9:30 P. M. Musle & Dancing Until 2
THE NEW. Second Floor -
ROOSEVELT HOTEL
Hotel Bancroft
OPPOSITE CITY HAU.
~ WORCESTER, MASS.
-500-Rooms
Three Restaurants
THE BANCBOFT WILL BE THE 
BEKDEZVOUS FOB THE CBOWDS 
BEFORE AND AFTEB THE 
CARNEGIE TEH-HOLT CROSS GASEE, 
NOVEMBER 9 x 
FITTON FIELD, SCENE OF THE GAME, IS 
ONE MILE B0M THEHOTEL '  ' 
Wire Collect Wstern Union For Beservationa
MAURICE T LAWLEB, Manager
Plaid Soccer Team Ties
Slippery Rock Teachers
Overtime Periods Finish 
Scoreless; Liven good, 
Prendes Tally
Even with the playing of two five* 
minute overtime periods, Tech and 
Slippery Rock State Teachers 
college soccer teams could not 
break the 1*1 deadlock which pre
vailed at the end of the game last 
Saturday. As both teams were 
evenly matched, the game was play
ed hard up until the end.
Throughout the first three quar
ters of the game, It was played mostly in mid-field. In the 'fourth
quarter, Tech scored when Prendes. center forward, scored fromIn front of the goal. A short time later, from a mix-up in front of the Tech goal a foul ,Aa called against Tech Inside the penalty area. On the penalty shot which followed, Llvengood, left half, scored neatly Slippery Rocks only .goal. From then on the game was scoreless, although each team several times threatened the others goal. Several times Slippery Rock on corner kicks nearly scored, but each time goalie Kissel got to the ball In the nick of time.
Both teams played hard throughout the game, but the outstanding players of the day were Llvengood, who played an excellent game for
Slippery _Rock, wiie Rigg played 
inlng gamos o
>11 for Tech,The two rei soason are away.Rock, and one with Grove City
Tech. Kissel ....
Swinney ..Pearl ......L. Reid
W.Reld .. Floyd ......
Prendes .Lalll .......
Pendleton
Slippery Rock.............. AxtellF........ PuebcarHastings.. Henning .. Wynnlch .Llvengood .... Mnllon...... Faust.... - Welsh .. Haynes
GoalsPrendes, Llvengood. Subs. Tech, Leety, Blair, Rlggj Slippery RockStrlppy, Abrams. Time IS minute quarters, two 6-mlnute
Dukes, Skibos Eye Coming 
Tilt As Step to City Title
Duquesne Ready For Carnegie Game After Last 
Weeks Rest. Dukes Eager to Avenge Past 
Losses to Rice, Kausas, Catholic U.
By T. R. Jordan, Sports Editor 
Duquesne Duke
Whose grid eleven will emerge a victor from Suturdwys battle'royal?' will tho campus of the Tartan Fluid reverberate with the .cheors of victory, or will an ominous silence tlmt is Indlcftttvo of defeat prevail among tho followers of tho Sklbo clan?. .jsv0m rie iiu-oat of the oldest 
nlumnns to tho youugost Duquesne Fi'eshmnu, bellicose words have been shoutod: 4,BEAT TECH!* Twice the charges of the galloping Night Riders have fulled to ride down tho figh'ing Scots w\io in n charity game in 1931 held the (lying Dukes under.tlve coaching of Elmer Layden to a scoreless tie. Acs In Inst year undov tho able tutelage of Howard Harpstor. tlio Schonley Park boys completely upset the "wise boys and tholr predictions us they defeated a bewildered Duquesne eleven 3 0 before a crowd of some odd 40,000 s'unnod spectators at the Pitt Stadium. That day it waa joo Mihm'a big toe that spelled disaster for the Hilltop as he kicked a portent three pointer tlmt spoiled victory for tho linderdogB.
Saturday nfternoon, the protogea of Christy Flanagan will attempt to answer those warlike yells etuInntlng.from the followers of the Red anil Blue with .a win that will dazzle tho Tftrtiin'faithful.A local newspaper last week
PERSONAL CARE 
1. When you . aro ill or feel 
"down go to your family doctor 
and let him-find tho cause of your 
poor health^
If you are away from homoaoe 
or telephone Dr. Marks at the gymnasium or home.
. 2. Helpful Hints
Don't go to the advertising doctor.
Dont buy medicine Just because
mend raedtclDes.
IF YOU DO NOT FEEL WELL 
GO TO A GOOD DOCTR
ATTRACTIVE ROOM AND BOARD $31.00 per month'
civil war. Civil "war It is but the rivalry between the two schools is cloau and friendly. That the game win be oue of the hardest fought Is a foregone conclusion. Duquesaa first of al) will be out to eveu up last yoars heartbreaker. Secondly,
tho touchdown trail and believe, that it will take more persuasion tliun Tech can supply to ,
Itlon that school has attained-lu<ho eyes of the sporting world. Tho name T E C H and 'GOOD SPORTSMANSHIP aro eynonmous to thoso who hnvo mot tho Plaid or who have seen a game in whlolt Tocli has participated.
Managers Wanted For Minor Sports
outfits have been, progressing rapidly, but managersare sorely needed by each squ^d. The swimming ' and . rifle,
It is hoped this yoor will be no exception.
Numorals aro awarded to Plobes becoming managers of these teams.
SQUIRREL HILL 
BARBERSHOP
6823 FORBES STREETiSl
GET A vVWITH A CAMEL /

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN, TOTSDAY. OCTOBER 29, -1935
3The Carnegie 3Tadm
PUONB MAYFLOWEB 2
Published. woofcly <J
NATIONAL ADVERTISING SERVICE. I
ADVERTISING - MANAGER : PHOTOGRAPHIC EDITOR: EXCHANGES: Rosemary B. ... CIRCULATION M ANAGER :
41 Last Wc Can Enjoy 
& Merry Christmas 
Jjft N APATHETIC majority has at last roused 
2\ itself from its indifference and complete-. overriden the heretofore effective protests 
of a small minority of students. Undesirable 
Vacation dates have been crammed down our 
throats Jong enough. The petition asking for a 
dhange of dates which Student Council trans
mitted to the Executive Board wqs the work 
of a smalt group of agressive out-of-town stu
dents. But though the move was started by 
a few students it clearly represented the un
impressed sentiment of three-quarters of the 
student body.
- The original purpose for starting Christmas
 aeation at a time far in advance of other inititutions was to enable Carnegie students to 
 rork during the pre-Christmas rush days. No
ault can be found with the theory, but in
 iractice the benefits went to the few and inonvenienced many. Eight hundred out-of' own students find no pleasure in spending 
Jew Year's day traveling to school for an 8:30 
lass on January 2.
Protesting against the new vacation dates 
iecause they prevent students from getting 
rork is making a mountain out of a mole hill, 
figures furnished by the employment bjireau 
how that. In times of prosperity and high 
wollment the number of men and women who 
/ere placed, in positions during the holidays 
as 175 or 6:5% of the total registration. Last 
ear the .figure fell-to 3.4%. There is no doubt 
at these figures would be considerably in-i
reased if records were available to show the 
umber of students who sccured work without 
le knowledge of the employment bureau. To 
Bay^that 'lO per cent -of-the. enrolled students 
secured work during vacation time, would; not 
be far from wrong. Several school officials be
lieve that even; this figure is high.
There is another very . interesting factor 
'which puts .quite, a'dent, in the defense of the 
die-hards who -still advocate long vacations so 
students can secure .employment. 74.5.% of the 
women and 50.5% of the men indicated upon 
their registration blanks that they have no de
sire to secure work during the school term.
No doubt remains in our minds that the Ex
ecutive Board acted -wisely in making the 
Christmas recess a matter of convenience for 
many instead of a business opportunity for a
Assignments vs
Fellowship
C
RITICISM, should always be considered 
with several grains of salt. But it should 
. fee considered!
The comments of foreign students upon the 
- United States and the American college stu-. 
;';.r Th college
; ; 6tudent naturally is at a critical state, both lit
erally and with his opinions. He has not 
 reached that mellow state of life attributed by 
 : some to faculty and older persons. His judg-  ments may not be the best but sometimes in 
his scurrying about he roots up new ideas and 
. ideals.
Is it true that students at Carnegie Tech for; - get; fellowship in their, scramble to keep up 
with assignments? And is it true that this 
mad. scramble eventually deposits them outside 
^ with a hard-won diploma representing knowl. .edge which they lack the poise and personality 
to put across? ;
. Carnegie Tech can not be taken as a repre-, sentative American institution. Its scholarship 
and courses are much above the ordinary lib; ;: eral arts college. Its instructors are among the 
 : beat in the country.1 Its students work as hard 
as at any inatitution in thecountry. With all 
as a backgto^Qd .a-^ecli'gra^iiate'sbioidcT 
Jgimte his mnrk io tho world. And many of 
them dol Bat it is the ones who dont that^jniake an; interesting study; -;  . 
: i j newcomers to our college cab see things 
. f to whicU>e ate blind, why not take advantage 
' * aid? If our spirit .of fellowship' is 
r 'we;4ay^ It is
d that^m/teeinrix-idkno'Prl^dg'e is safflinkIs our. social knowledge on a par ?
Tech is a common bond between students of 
- countries.,. Could tlero baabetter place 
--------A,e: that spirit of internationalism
. *s ? . Your answer to this question 
, arising from  open-minded critica' 
Le - your stand as ; ani. educated
Writers Row
WHY THE WORLD LAUGHS
Many years, ago a wlae sage discovered tbat lie 
. way to a. mans heart was not through his atom. 
ach, but through his funny-bone. If one wished 
to start a revolution, the Ideal method of.pro
cedure was lo ridicule the existing form of gov
ernment. If one wished tb. change the religious 
system, a few jokes at the expense of the church - 
would be Instrumental In turning people to a 
new faith. This remarkable discovery, has been 
largely responsible for the development of witand humor through subsequent centuries. Many 
technical definitions may be found ior these 
terms, but none Is so expressive as that given 
by an obscure author: Humor-?s-laugh!! with \ 
the other man; wit Is laughing at. him. The 
purpose of humor Is exclusively entertainment 
while wit may frequently be of a-serious or even 
a caustic nature.
The development of wit may be tra'ced back to the archives of ancient Egypt, which contain many-amusing taleB, most of 'them too lengthy to quote, Egyptian wit was laborious and heavy. Today, it would barely, rate a.careless smile. The contrast between Egyptian and Greek wit Is marked. One Greek writer tells of a man whose wife has fallen into the river. He run upstream to rescue her. A friend calls to him, Fool, the current will carry her downstream, not up. To this the man replies, "You do not know my wife. The flavor of tbls story is decidedly modern. Writing witty epitaphs upon tombstones was another pastime of the Greeks. One of these reads, I, Dionysius of Tarsus, lie here; sixty years old; I never-married, and I wish my father bad not.' This cannot begin to compare wit some of our modern, epitaphs, but it is evident tbat the author was attempting to be witty. That It Is being quoted some two thousand years after bis death le ample proof that he succeeded. The development of eatlre-msy also be traced to the early Greeks. At a time when Europeans were merely bands of savages, whose main idea . of wit consisted of such practical jokee as pushing each other from cliffs, Aristophanes was writing dramas which would put many modern satirists to Bcorn. He made sport of social customs in the manner of the late Will Rogers and ridiculed governmental policies, the great philosophers. and even life, Itself.
Several hundreds years elapsed before English wit was horn, The oldest known work, Beowulf, Is an epic, and thus it Is dignified. It lacks wit entirely unless the grim irony of the line, 'the Scyldlngs folk never used treachery In those days,1' might be construed as an attempt at levity. The irony in the English ballads is much more .-prominent, and the use of Ironical understatement is evidently meant to pass for witticism. In Gawaln and the Green Knight irony becomes gentler and' more subtle. The climax comes in Shakespeares works, which contain practically every variety of wit that has ever been known. It would be Impossible to Illustrate this point adequately In less words tban I Intend to spend upon the wl Summing up, English wit Ib res permits Itself to become open <
French wit,'however, Is more:open and unrepressed. Fun le inked at temporal and spiritual lords with a great deal of display. The very manner In which French stories are told seems to convey to the reader, Now I am about to say something clever. The incarnation of French wit, to me, Is Voltaire. He was peculiarly adept at what we. term.comebacks. His particular fieldwas that of velvet-gloye ire* marks. This , type of observation has been derlyals for some, time, each attempting, to gain Influence with the king. Voltaire persisted in maintaining superior, attitude,.-"Oome; come, M. Voltaire,1.- said .de Sarenac. . We are both - men of the world. Voltaire countered back,' Yes, Its a large world, Isnt it, M. de_Sarenac?. Other amusing examples are to be found .in  Candida. ,
A modern author has given a. belter Illustration of this type of wittlciBin.lnthe caustic comment of "the old lady; who,saw the tango danced for the first , time.' She assumed a very sweet expression, and raising her voice so that, all around her might hear, said, T suppose its'all right if they really love each other. Among the
Bernard' Shaw.
; We must not leave the subject of wit without a glance at .some of the English satirists' Defoe, S.wift> Addison, and Steele. Although at the time that .lilt their mai unsurpassed.
Humorcannot boastancient Egypt. , as Its source, but must be content to trace-. Its beginnings: to the Hebrews.* .There are many' stories of the riddles asked King sSoiomdn and .of his ready answers. ~ The.re.-may; be otherexamples 0?. humorjlo the-years before tiie^ar]y_-.EnffUsh writings, but none of them are very Important.'. Chaucer was -tlie first Englishman to Introduce indirect humor. Into literature. He also used.a finer shading that is not typical-of earlier writ-...
Gawaln and th Green Knight contains hum .ous. dilemmas and-- light fancies-, which .show .a slight advance." .When Shakespeare appears, .we have examples of almost every-type of 'humor .ever used.. Tile, pages of-his works are filled with nonsense, misuse of words, sudden i
works of George Eliot is of a finer typel 
America has produced more authors with the ability to write humorous works than any other couutry. . Mark . Twain and - Bert Harte both wrote of relations between two persous of different races. The gap Is bridged by sheer power. *Tttf6 tasmov contained in .the works of these men Is not., conscious and therefore' quite effective. There are. many contemporary writers who are
.Such. Nonienset, .' Hilaire Belloc lias included - sem.e^r<3meiy'?i^^ioiiQ .aalinalfl ia-his--'works; In fact, there are very, iew American - authors wbo have'not' tried their, hands at some form of humorous 'writing. ;
In the above paragraphs, I have not attempted , to; give an .exfiausUve surrey bf the history of . wit and humor....That.task:would be quite impossible.; I-have merely^hlt the highest spots.
tlans:  tb^th.. present day. What ..the. people of
News Review of Current 
Events tlie World Over
Hoare Promises Britain Will Not Fight With Italy 
Lavals Peace Efforts ContinuedPresident 
Roosevelt Returns to Washington,
i-in; anything : else.' ; But
Nbtice for Writer's Row
: at the Tarton/fflce froai filudente in any de: partment. Those of sufficient merit 'wlll-^he printed .{in Subsequent; iBaues.v-Artlcles'. should not exceed "1,500 word
m SAMUEL HOAHE, British 
^ foreign secretary, assured par
liament and the world that' Great 
Britnin.has.no Intention, of-fighting . Italy and 
would jiot aiooe apply military 
sanctions against 
that nation. He 
held ont strong 
hopes that the wnr 
In Africa could be settled without-re
sort by the league, to extreme meas-. 
ures. His speech > 
was plninly an In
vitation to Itply to talk peace terms.
Denying tbat the government 
policy Is hostile to Fascism^- Sir 
Samuel said; - - -
We bave not. the least Intention of interfering In .the domestic af
fairs of other people.
The unbroken solidarity of the empire is behind the government's 
policy, be said. Let those proph
ets of misfortune who have marked 
the empire down for decay and dis
solution observe this fact of over: whelming Importance.
Hoare hinted at British Isolation from continental affairs If the 
league collapses.
Next day Prime Minister Stanley: 
.Baldwin warmly endorsed.all. that 
Hoare and Capt Anthony -Eden have done at Geneva. He depre
cated even the use of the word war, 
but called for a rearming of - th empire, saying: In the interests 
of world peace It is' essential oar defensive services shoald be strong
er than they are today.'
\4USS0LINI made one. conclltaIvJ tdry gesture toward Great 
Britain when he agreed to withdraw a division of troops from Libya; and at-the same time he urged 
that Fronce and^Brltaln make.quick reply to his peace conditions]. Bui 
it became known, the troopB ;W,ere to-be moved from Libya to Tripoli, 
where they wouldbe almost i ne much a menace to Egypt; and thr 
aucefl peace terms, were so. dras .tic that there was no prospect tha 
they would be accepted by. anyone concerned, ..They Included disarma 
meat of .-Ethiopia, - an Internationa 
protectorate , over the centraf > regions and an Italien protectorat* 
over.th remainder;.
Addressing - the.. -foreign affairs .committee of the French chambei 
of deputies, Premier Laval prom . lsed he . would seek only ' a compro
mise tbat would b..fully accepta
ble .to die League of Nations. He told - the committee thetv France's 
battleships would steam .immediate
ly to the. assistance .of Britain if the letter's fleet - was attacked by ftflily.
DltESIDENT ROOSEVELT, deep* iy tanned and Id,, fine spirits, re
turned to the White House, bis Holiday tour, ended; . When be landed 
from the cruiser Houston at 
Charleston,^ S. C., be told a big 
crowd gathered to welcome blm 
that the country Is on its way back 
'to prosperityunder .the planned 
economy of his administration, and 
dont let aoybody tell you differently.'
C*OIt the third time In his career" Mackenzie King is Slcm prime 
minister of Conuda, following the victory of the Liberal. porty at tbe 
polls. Richard B. 
Bennett and bis 
Conservative cabinet resigned and 
King was called on 
fo>rm the new 
government, which he di<| at once. He 
mseli was sworn 
as prime mfnisf.jiresident of the privy council and 
secretary of state
King
Greek Notes
The holiday, spirit of Halloween has given fraternity social; chair* ten plenty of ideas-for the -weekthecalandar.
The dance held laet Friday at the Tau Delta Phi house, turned out to be a combined Harvesters and Halloween dance. A public address system was hooked' up . so that all of.-the fifty couples; present could dance.In-any part. oC the house. Everyone was wellentertained: ask the pledges wbofhad to pick stalk's out of the chandeliers next morning.
The..A.T...O.;3 report an equally successful Halloween party. The next thing on.their program la
S. A. R and Kappa Delta Rho trtained penn State guests Friday and Saturday. The K. b. R; alumni glvlnff; the boys  stag ...party which - will include dinner, cards -mokes, and music; '
Th welcome victory. Saturday seems to have .stirred up a: little spirit on the campus. \The. PI K. A. .pledgs and actives will rough It up on the Wlghtman.field Saturday mornineThe Delta Tau Delta team will play the Architects that morning also.- Tako your pickthe "scraps of the century. Everyone is. welcome-7-rree!
Alpha Phi Delta.held a full swimming party last Sunday. Just in case, the refreshments served were life savers. -
--cayoEaV>-f4Ucde?g-<isy-.ba let Is scheduled for Sigma Phi Ep> 
Ion: November 1. at -their 'houserCathedral .Manalona.  Th-.Bet Thta Pis :wll1 help celebrate'.th opening.'of jthe Golden Room at the Roosevelt. Htel.- They-also held  
last Sunday afternoon for. th ihers .atvthe. home of Dr. Work, who ia the^ chapt^r advlsor. -' : 
Other teas wlll be held Sunday,
Sigma; Rho -for.;':'the : 'Jewish ddrm glrls.Mrs. J.B. Rejsenbachwill pour, 
jbose who'; mlssed . gettlng/ ticks to see rciMpatra1- (and Antov 
') can become giiests .of Mr.'filer Kenyontonight' by -attehdlng th;.Tttetd-^aai-Talk.:and; supper B:301ri,the Commons Annex. .-.; >Vv;
The Kappa Sigs ehtertained DeanTarbell and his famlly;iast Monday. October 28. Thla Prlday a costume party atl thaxboase-wiU;;start N6i imber Off v wlth, ai he
foira. Thomas A. Crerar of Winnipeg was made min
ister of mines, immigration and colonization, Interior and Indian af
fairs. Charles A. Diiimlng of Montreal. is the new minister of finance 
and W. D. Euler or Kitchener has 
the trade and commerce portfolio. 
All the cabinet positions except lhat 
of agriculture were filled at once.
The resignation of w. D. Berridge as minister to Washington 
was accepted and became Immedi
ately effective. The deportment of national revenue announced cancel
lation of dumping duties om the following commodities entering Can
ada: Plums, prunes, radishes,, spiaach, sad peaches,
A RTHDR HENDERSON, presl** dent of the world disarmament 
conference and s most determined foe of war, died in a London i 
ing home. He 
sevnty-two y e 
old "and bad been 
III for a long time, so III. tbat he had 
not. been permitted 
to see a newspaper for six weeks' and 
did not know tbat another war h
that peace In Eu
rope . was threat
ened; The former mold.er of Glasgow who became a leader of the; Labap party end was foreign 
retary when It was In power, was 
awarded .Lbe Nobel peace prize in 1034. His crusade for.peace and 
armament was Inspired by the death  of. his eldest son jo the World 
He was s gentle, much loved 
a genuine Idealist whose latter years were made sorrowful by the 
patd tallur of th disarmament conference to get results.
Presnet
i'eree mooch. I shall geeve my all!Poor Cleo.'
SAID A FAIR VISITOR one da while viewing tho campus. "What ibat iiitie building in frcr.t of Machinery Hall for?" Oh That, re plied a football player, Is Stuieni glorified Hot Dog and Refreshment stand for weary, engineers.
AND HOW DID THE BETA Pis rate the P. A. A. with their hundred dollar budget?their dance would have gone over smoothly if Nosey ; hadnt been there. He spent the whole evening handshaking the Dean so that half of the plebes didn't even get * chance to meet her. We want to inquire (politely) whether that was a Beta Pi or Beta Thela Piformalfourteen of the boys rated. - ,
THAT KAPPA SIGMA HAYRIDE, advertised os the W. A. A. hayrlde, really turned out to be a frat rushing partyeach of-the bros. attached himself to a poor plebe and tortured blm with the usual rushing dataIn a subtle manner of
THE BEETLE FORMAL MUST have been a big success  B^tty Schrack didnt even bother going but went to a Pitt med party instead.
MARY LOD YOU CAN take___Maskov cause the Beta PI dance >ver and Halloween Isnt till
SKIBO AS USUAL IS crowded with Maggies* who sit thru three lunch periods hoping someone else will play the vie.*.
Incidentlywhat happened to the garbage man ditty?
P R-A C TI C. AiLL Y EVERYONE with a dorm key and a registration card turned out to see Minnie in afestive mood at the Dorm dance__Chairman Horvath offered all participants everything they needed to enliven the party and have a good timea few of Minnies boys
Off the Grass signsprexy Gi'huoro (delt adv) dropped in to see If his plebes were being properly catered toDick Hammond and D. Batoman spent most of their time in the dark alley entranceprobably scaring each other.
IT - HAPPENED AT THE BETA Sig house on Forbes street last Saturday night. An Inebriated gentleman-whom everyone thought was an alumnus-from another .chapter was wandering aboutas altim nl will wanderbragging alternately for about two hours-straight,' he turned and said,' Ya know we Sigma Nus have a great organlzashun. fle .was Immediately told that theSigma Nu house was next door to which he replied, Well, I
I dont see how i could get inside that rich Jewish frat next door." The Sigma Nus went over and affectionately took him to their
WE MADE A HURRY UP TRIP to Purdue and one of the most markable features of the -game (of
they were all decked out Jn thei cords and derbies! Tradition has It hat they toss the iron'hats int< lbe sir'when Purdue scores tbel: first touchdown. Tally-hoo, by kimmlny. but they were embarrased when the Battling Scots didnt let them score. Derbies will be in style this winter at Poo Poo Pa Do.
also made the jaunt west . . . why? . cause they (we too). got their meals and lodging-free we guess. -Anyhow ibey had a hellava good time even though they did lose their tender voices. They brought back three unused derbies, an autographed bottle (every Techplayer signed jt)> & wrinkled loader, and by gad
AN.OLD PURDUE PLAYER class of 8B was cornered in the Blue Blazzer and this is what he told . . . and 'that year I ployed for Illinois, coached them, and played for Purdue ... And all in the same year/'"Bue when be was asked his name, he just replied, Hie
SI ' MINNESOTA SIBERLICH has been limping around with a very very sore leg. He fell out of
at the girls on -Forbes Street.
SOMETHING NEW IN THE WAY of Fun for Fun clubs is the Brother Jawn and Sister Sue-club. They
quickly initiated
i assignment at a midwestern university was to bring in a report the Middle Ages. The professor received a review of "Life Begins
Sciito Scoops
CHEAPER SLEEP
Cyclopropane, -long coosl*,, 
the ideal anaesthetic by med( 
authorities, but restricted lD PSE
mercial use because or ito 
horbitant price of $45 a pound hJ 
at last been produced cheaply k. 
university.. research chemist I 
Purdue. A patent for the tie* 
method was issued in Juue 0f uj, 
year, and after a further period 9 
university experimentation t0 co rect any defects in the manurac^ ing process, calculate, the coet production, and feel out" the *; ket for the anaesthetic at the nB* low price, the commercial prodnl lion privilegewiii be iranSiwi lo the Mallinckrodt Compand St. Louis. 7 0.
Cyclopropane, being relatively -iless, Is simple .to adrToletep acts very quickly, and has n0 afl
NO SALE 
* new low in muddle-heaaednt reached with this little classic m a college newspaper: Weregret to state that we did not ha the information about Johacorrect. He Is not an instructor bni a fellow. Dr. .Wolf is not head ot the botany department. There is botany department. lre bicj.
t* ------* Durham Univerellrsrsity.ACP.
HIGH COST OF EATING Students at the Univereiiy 0{
RECREATION1. Use your spare time for mo ccreatlon but don't take it all .ing.
2..- Get into: the swimming pool -out on the play.'fieldc through..the park. .3. Fresh air and sunshiuefree gifts of nature.  Have you had
Lillian H. Gist, received her M. A. degree in' . Greek Archeology at Claremont College, California, laal June. Her thsBls was a 28,000-
809 UBBRTY AVENUECOurt 2301
Third Among tie Years Ten Best.  
N. . World-Telegram. ;i
(POIL DE CAUOTTR)
A Daring Study of Adolescence 
French Dialogue English Titles
CHILDREN NOTO ADMITTED
leged Income tax evaders.of Louisi
ana failed when a Jury In Federal 
New OrleanB brotighl. in a
of tbeclose assocites of the late Senator Long. ;The prosecution claltned he 
owed $71,000 in taxes. The ver.diet, was .greeted with loud cheers .by.'.the,crowd. In the courtroom, and 
ln...the..eisulDgcoDfus)oD sreraJ rie^s photographers were .beaten up
Dear Editor [
. Letters printed are - the - opinions of readers and should not be confused -With the editor, lal policy of the Tartari.
To the Editor, of !Tho Carnegie ^Tartan:
- As students!of Carnegie who are interested in having a school paper whiish is written by students and which expresses student jyilnion, we offer the following suggestions In.the hope of seeing them in the Tartan.
U The syndicated column entitled Current Events, while valuable initself, should be replaced by .one written by a atudent, . since there is-no other such opportunity at Carnegie for.serious student ex-rpffS'SiOh'.' ------
On the  same page, the edlreaders interested* follow out a definiteeditorial policy, the,ditiectlon to be determined by. a conscious effort on the part of the edit'orlal .eitaff to decide'what ^constitutes' -Carhegley' opinion.
 a .column, nor an appeal . spec"the' Plttsgurgli police, deals with anything;, of. vital .Importance tor students;..Today,' most conversations eventually.-turn;,to the Italothioplaii Mvar.Yyet1 tho-xTartcRv has chosen to cbmpletely Ignore -it>. We:%nist .that-the publication; of this letter ,wjll.stimulate other.peo;pile -to'; answer; withPadded ' sugges--nments..: .-Sincerely^. '
^^'fl;rn':-Ji--P;-, .
tlone I

---------------------------------------------------

jdetal Belts Have Inspired 
Co-ed StylistsRope Adds 
Glamour to Evening Gowns
New Column 
Covers World 
Of Sciences
Cellophane Clolh AppearsPre Informal Functions 
Pleats Predominate
By Elva Hendel 
Hello again! Can you stand a itle systematic raving about what ffhat and -where? We hope so, 
t*cause here it i6
Belts are terribly important this 
season. Beall3i;, j1 18 3UrPrisinS 
jnrJnai
_ consider how an old gown with just a up" of Ihe belt.' Versatile
hirewe :lees brilliant offsprings will have-to shell out and
of the suspender or a dfiniuvu j your waistline, it is the koy 
jote o your costume. Miss Chic Till choose her accessories to .correspond with her belt. To be tricky id trim for afternoon wear, your ool sports frock will be set off by .bellor colored alligator and shoes ad handbag to match. And, slnco i! Is qulle the thing to be initiated, apt to have your John Hen* ;n the new gold and Bilver 
'belts for daytime and evening
alssance to inspire them. The dinwns are now twice as glamwith the goid ropes, silk ropes, or peavl ropes studded with Uny seed pearls girdling them.A quite amusing novelty is.th Bumoniere (alms hogit you donl biow your french) belt with little &Ured kid nurses banging from the side. Don't we wish that all those poises could he filled t 
Our nimble-fingered sister could 
nake polo belts of crocheted string.. In white and vivid colors, these novelties are really quite stunning.Cellophane Is In again, but quite startling so this time. It seems that Ibis material, if one can call Itthat; Is not content to be made up Into or jackets. Indeed, no! It be everythingand so It is. It bae been woven Into a cellophane cloth and designed into a slinky,
sophisticated evening gown in black, a wrap-around ' will force us to. take seriously.
Three leaders carry off the millinery honors this fall; the turban, the oll-the-face, and the forwardmoving beret. These hats do give the fullest expression to the importance of smartness today. They not only express and emphasize young ideas; they are the Young Idea, if you know what we mean.'Paris says pleats, and we echo' Not just a few here and thereas. In former yearsbut all over, with pleated tops, peplums, aprons, and skirts. Even our new gloves are pleated to match ill* accordion pleated handbags. The newest howl is over the pleated chiffon blouses in bright shades of red and blue.We herald the luxurious new ev ning bag! No longer will you ha a bulky package under your ar when dancing with your favorite escort, for this bag actually collapses flat. It Is introduced in sumptuous
bag in black suede.
How many times we have the Roselti Evening Wrap sweep dramatically ecross the silver screen and yearned secretly for such splendor. We don't have to look fashion magazines to admire glamour, because it is our turn m . to share its top to toe flattery. In black transparent velvet, lined from hood to hem with luxurious white crepe, we certainly will be regal.Pearlsno matter if it be a three, two, or even one-strand necklace you simply must have pearls! They supply just the right touchregardless of your ensemble. The newest mode Is a tiny cap made ol doable strands for evening wear. It fits on your head like a hat, and is held in place with invisible pins . . .I say, Plebe! I beg your pardon, but your hat" How often such mishaps will occur since the hew kiltie' Is being worn. It really looks like  the frosh dink, except that it has two little streamers at the back. Dont you think we should show a little patriotism and sprout
Judges Show Mope Sense.
In International Slections
Idealistically Modern 
Paintings Are Not 
Among JPihners
By Olive R. Wolfe and Helen M. Edwards
WVh a sigh of relief, we gazed
Hidalgo de cavides . . . sb afraid vero we that it would be another Soused in Scranton. The picture
sofa.
"The Shed in the -Swamp by Charles E. Burchfield received second prize, it is a damp looking walercolor full of raw, gloomy atmosphere. created perhaps by the ravens or his extensive use of black.
ornbor hucd canvas that realistically displays botk the treachery and the calmness of the sea. "Still Life by Albert Saverys, bo received first honorable .menon is very interesting in color ina pattern, although the subjects could be most anything and still I've the same result.Candido Portinary won second )Dorable mention, with'his can183 Coffee, a composition  rich ja soft brown and grey-green tones,
WomenaAtkieiies
By MARGIE GREEN
had by . all. 
90 tne w. A. A. Hallowe'en of course. In spite of our jnaims for the reaction of college "ning youth .toward jogging along 
roads In such a primitive renicle as a wagon, with a little cetiy hay strewn here and there w atmosphere,, our Skibos revealhrm s aa Pure and simple 'irs at heart. Furthermore, 
to my surprise, the hay was merely strewn here and ere  but was piled Into high winds, giving an odor that , was 
J Im least bit "smelly. gWW uh Mary Lord's portable vlctrola ward, and Nettle Nugent's "Top i' records, the ride proved to be 1 collich-llke.. Doctor Lang Interest.of quite a few J ' when I was a boy" stories; " ct, we shall hold him response tor any sleigh rides that might Place ia the future; t see by the ,papers that some of 
re?103 fair archers ;rated some r <av3-^tl ptibILctty^?/;Pevirii'ya' i1? recognition by the gentlemen 
w-.,e presa explains the keen com(mm that archery is giving its *iQoor neighbor, hockey. Atleast,  ormer seems to appeal more to a ^P?erclassmen than.'ddesVhocfc 
bL * cl* can bpaat of only a ;ooe, team for both Juniors and sen2*- Can it be that our older coIL... acquiring a sense of dignity uni h,nders them from: .romping ^er.aad .yott wltt-hdckey sticks? '.^eeant Sommers is stlll givlng uJ hundred-strong freshmen :turn'workout in sighting and'almI* who knows what :rlfle:talent 
mi uncovered ' during . these ffi,Mrlei! (His favorite protege 
fcii e year bas just recently staB: b0nn orward Into' the ranks..of; an 
colonel In' the.R.. O.T. C., v>.._ aN goes to show that hegood shot when he i
but which is inclined to be a little bit muralish.
"Sun and Sea by Peter Deberitz ceived tl ~ i is skilcolors, but the result is not effective, due to his lack of intei subject matter.- - 
Fourth honorable mention, "AusMaurice de Vlaminck for his canvas Flowers, which orful bouquet very simply express
ed.Those among the' Carnegie 1 ulty who had pictures entered.in the Exhibition were Alexander J. Kostellow, Roy Hilton, Samuel Rosenberg, and Everett Warner.'For the benefit of those who a planning to see the International we suggest that particular. i tion be given  to John Cai delicate ,canvas entitled Sleeping; Gerald Brockhurst's realistic portrait; Eugene Speichers "AnEast Tenth Street Jungle; and last but certainly not least Picasange concoction of sawdust,
Bette? and SaferPlanes Are Sought
jrem Poire 1 1 
cerned purely with experimental 
developments and does not engage 
in commercial manufacture of 
planes.
Mr. Tucker came to Carnegie Tech late in September to take advantage of the equipment available.
facilities of th Department of Aeronautics ' at Carnegie good as are avallabale at any school
Four students have acted i sistants for Mr. Tucker since he has been at work here. To these men, be said, he was particularly grateful for their cooperation. They are: Robert Gilson, William Daugherty, (Robert Halil, and Harold Mltcbner.
____ PUPET N?_TIC_
Important meeting for circulation stair of Puppet and all those Inter ested in circulation staff, this after noon at 4:30 in Room 12, Industries 
Hall. '' ' . ' 
HOLIER SKATING 
THE LEXINGTON
: Always a Nice Crowd of the, > : uNJeest People-------7310 Penn Ave-, Cor. Lexington Phonc CHurchllt 9460
;1o3l -dr931ggO 
TSF5NICLEANING. .. ^ .PRESSING 
4620 FORBES STREET 
Phone: SChnley 348
Will Tell of Interesting 
Technical Developments 
On Carnegie Campus
YOU MAY DONATE
re Ph.Ds Participate 
In Discussions Of 
Math Seminar
here s represents the sum of the events in the world of science and technique which possesses' a campus interest. Newspapers in general are 'just devices for publishing time derivatives. . The.' motive of this column is to b.egln the regular study of this function: to collect and exhibit.a little of what goes, on both here at school and outside that is of timely interest ia the field of science. The only way in which this effort can be continued Is by receiving cooperation from a number of correspondents on campus;you feel that thts column should continue (with Improvement, of irse) comunicate with the colThero are several regular meetings on campus at which ds/dt Is looked into os far as a particular field goes. Among these are: Physics Collogulum, Chemistry Seminar, Chemical Engineering Seminar, Civil Engineering SemlElectrical engineering Semiand Metallurgy Seminar. TheBe are regularly  scheduled subjects. There are, in addition, graduate seminars In modern physics, conducted by Dr. Stern and the staff of the Molecular Research Laboratory; In physical chemistry, by Drs. Warner and Seitz; and reputedly hlghly-esoterlc semlni in mathematics, whose whole nudls consists In Drs.-Dlnes. Hicks, ikowltz, Rosenbach, and T. L. Smith! No regular schedules are a]lab1e for these. The engineering societies, such as the AIEE and ASCE and others, sponsor student seminars at regular intervals. TheTau has lately begun to air technique of the inexact sciences .(or arts) to its members.
Nothing is so interesting as controversy. Difference of opinion Is 'esponslble for horse raceB, crap shooting, debates, and divorces. 'A  jrming hero at Carnegie the musically-minded; defending on the nature of their inThe bone of contention Is Hammond electric  organ, miscalled the plpeless pipe organ, havent seen it, know that It
te amplifier. The keys control complex system of sine-w* generators, whose output is fed powerful audio amplifier and then o two loud-speakers. The fgenerated by toothed wheels
synchronous motor. These wheels
consequent fluctuations In current
,Dr. Koch, instructor In organ, lys it Is capable of truly remarkable results if played well, but hesi to compare it with the organ.
sand dollar piped rival, and Is i reft! Instrument In Its own right.Student opinion differswidely; organ students are generally
refuses to settle the controversy.
Query: How do all the mapsyearly made, of th^ campus com
What couldbe done with i twelve-inch refractor .at Carnegie.1 We have one.What is the subject, of the new model In Hydraulics Lab?When does the Glider Club crack up Its ships? And how!The answers to these are somewhere. Would you like to see them? And have you any quefi' tlons of your'own? .._______'
Men Crochet, Women Work
In Land of Carnegie Student
Nancy Hezlep Recounts 
Experienies in India, 
Country of Birth
MISSIONARY FATHER 
INSTRUCTS NATIVES
Some Are Converted, While 
Others Pretend in Order 
To Get Benefits
By Jare Mason.Would you like to live in a land 
where the men sit at home doing 
exquisite, fancy work while the wotrudge along the streets with 
heavy packs on their backs and 
baskets balanced on their heads? 
You would? Then start treeing to India, for Nancy Hezlep assures ould fiud that mode of living there. Miss Hazlep '3S.
i in Jhnnsi, India,
Pittsburgher, is a missionary to In
onsists of four children, Nancy
j to America, where she attended Wooster College for two ars. However, said Miss Heziep, this is not my first glimpse of America, for I had a year of kindergarten and my freshman
has had a great* deal of schooling In India; a very interesting education, from what she tells us. It would see>m strange
left Jhansl every March and went up into the Himalayas to a boardSame Studies 
The curriculum at Woodstock differs very little from that of any
would be inclined to think that In any place as far away aB the Himalayas,* reading, writing, and arlth-. metlc would certainly not be like our learning here; but;it iSi and' Nancy could recount as much American hlBtory and geography as any one educated in this country. In addition, she has studied history of Great Britain, also Indian history and geography, and she is. able to read and speak HinEvery January Miss Hezlep
It; but she did not spend all h< time there. Her father did itinerary preaching, which made it necessary for him to go Into the outweeks at a time; Nancy lived In tent which they would set up. 1 themidst of -one of these isolat-ed villages. ' "Whenyou - ask-her. if she enjoyed this life, she Immedl,8tly says, yes.- I like the ntives, Nancv said. They are not so much unlike we are.' Of: course there :aT th agreabl and the! disagreeable. but one; finds-them in every country. Some of. my, test'friends Indian girls,-one of-.whom I
till.to . .frequently. Shewrites' to me' in ti'industanTaiid' 1 reply In English.
DWerslons.-Slmjlar The means of 'diversion' about the same in India too. We played tennis, went to the
NATIVE LIFE IN INDIA
r#  ^
S'
* Shan6l. where the home of Nancy Hezlep '38 16 located.
without my brothers or father until year I was graduated from Woodstock.
Concerning the mode of living
those who went over to teach tho life of Christ really accomplished great deal. They do and they dont," answered soua Hezlep. I
may benefit by the things the missionaries do for them. Then, too, the preachers have a very difficult situation with which to cope. You see, many Indians come to America other country for their higher education, and while there they mingle with the people there. Many of these Indians come back to India disillusioned with way of living. They think we practice, the Christianity
pericncfes to their countrymen we some of the most faithful followers of our religion.>- Cites Caste System : The only way we, in India, can remedy this is to set as perfect an example as we can. Miss Hezlep believes It is Important that the Indians be guided, so that their Imillve beliefs may be eliminated As an example of their prlmitlveneSB. Miss . Hezlep cited the ite system. No person of one Caste may touch the food or drink of anothei c^ste, she said. If they do", 'the footl Is contaminated and cannot ,J)e eaten. For instance," she explained, I had'an Illiterate old Indian nurse, who was a stanch believer in.; the caste system. I re
placed on the table for. herself, and my* nurse' flew ai me In such torrov that I assure, you I never repeated such an act."; When we in America think of India, ouv minds usually revert to the problem of British, rule. Is it desirable? Could the natives progress without it? Nancy Hezlep enlightens us on that subject. If
probability Russia or Japan, would Immediately conquer her. I think India could not progress Independently.British Rule Valuable When we asked If she thought that the constant dissatisfaction was in the majority or the minority, Mies Hezlep said that It was those who aspired to political 'leadtlves merely listened nnd accepted. Those who do not accept are treated wim force. She said oue could not walk down the street without having a copy of Congress, the Independence puper handed to
If India could only renllzo how profitable British rule is, said Nancy. They' derive innumerable beueflts from It. Great Britain flue school systems In India, only a small fee Is required attendance. Universities and colleges have, .been established for Ihe Indians f their whole' stratum of civilization . haB been elevated because of British supervision. A majority of the villages have
will render this service free of charge to any native.Tourists Unwise Nancy said' that it is nothing
of the male natives, pleading with
of midwifery. "You can perceive how the British help the Indians, cant you? asked Nancy. I can think of only one thing which makes them dislike the invasion of the English. That Is, that British tourists, and American tourists aB well, treat the natives' roughly!We asked Miss Hezlep If. she preferred America to India. She made no definite answer. Her school Interests are here, but her parents Id India; each countrj
girl, for she told me,  I dldn oxpect my family home until 193S, but the >other day . I received a letter with the news that perhaps my family, .will be homo In the spring/' And'that should make soaa Hezlep happy enough so that she would oversome any homesickness for her home In faraway India.
TIERNANS
CAFE
Phone SChenley 9605
SPECIAL LUNCHES 
SEA FOOD
Opposite Forbes Field
LARGEST SELECTION OF PORTABLE. AND 
' STANDARD-SIZED
TYPEWRITERS $14,35 T0 -S75J0
Liberal Terms ... Free Trial
RENT A TYPEWRITER
First Three Months Rental Applies to Purchase Price. '
Fort Pitt Typewriter Co.
YOUR CAMPUS DRUG STORE
_____
Specials....
Gordons Cold Capsules............. ............50c
Gordons Ephedrine Oil___ ___39c
-  Cold Combination
$3 25 Wahl Eversharp Pen and Pencil___$1.95
 Medico Pipes .. ........ . . .$1.00
49c Eversharp Pencil . . ... 29c
Schick -Electric Razor ................ . $15.00

LUNCHEONETTE SERVICE
...Try Our Noon 25c Special
Free Delivery Service : Call Schenley 6300
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
THE OAKLAND 
BANK
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Carnegies World-Wide Fame Brings 
Cosmopolitan Croup Here to Study f
Students'from Foreign Soil 
Give Their Impressione 
Of This Country
3 represented In tho present Car
dia. Norway, Phiilipliie Islands. South Africa, South America, nnd Sweden.Outside of Pennsylvania. Ohio
lmsotts, 22; Mlcgart, 17; Illinois, 13: Maryland, 13; aiul Conuectlcut,
pciitment of Printing lias the out of Btnte students;..33 out of 70. Students coming
looKlng at us In terms of their homelands. Tngo Bolander, Department of Printing, cam from Sweden to study under Porter Garnett who resigned during the summer. Bolander, who had studied la India, Germany, England, and Sweden, says that though Carnegie Tech is very thorough in her
ondc fellowship. Europeans 'do-- not regvd ' American girls, very highly, says Bolander. In the brief time he has been here, how*. ever, he has found them more gracious and handsome than girls anywhere else. Though,be speaks English very easily, Bolander says' that American Is something else again.
Canada sent ub Dorothy Sher- man. Miss Sherman, after a' year Ontario Agriculture College, . came to tho Fine Arts School b&> cause, she thought it had. the. best Painting find. Drawing course In the country. Her.sole complalnt.so far Is the red tape she liad to go through ,hi.entering the country. .Though born lu the Unlted Stateo, Miss Shermanis a Canadian cltj> zenshe likes America bolter/but prefers Canada for a rest. '
Antonia Prendea came all tho way from Guatemala to study Eugineerlng at Carnegie. .When .he graduates, however, he Is golng to stay in the United States where, as
Tech, Mv. prendes studied ln England. When asked to compare English and American StudentB, he
the. opinion"American boys
Secretarial Staff 
Plan First Issue 
Of Publication
llcatlon of the Department of Secretarial Studies, to be in clronlaUon by the end of October. This paper was started four years ago by Mrs. Cranna, Instructor In business methods, as a project' in teaching the use of the mimeograph and the mimeoscops. Most of the stencils used in printing this paper are cut out by the senior olass and the colleae class in business methods.As a rule, four iBsues are printed each yearthe first during October, the socond for Christmas, the third, for Easter and the last for Exhibition Night As.lt la essentially not a news paper, there o hard . and fast rule about the contents. iThe first IsBue ' will contain gossip from the junior, senior, and. collego graduate clades; . secretarla! .alumnae uews;. secretarial personalities (well-known members of the department); the Secretary's wardrobe (a fashion column); and interesting jobs of alumThe staff 1b chosen by the editor.
senior editor, itae Jones 36; Jnnlor editor,. Mary Louise Pickett '36; college grad editor, Vida
m tha Beautiful j~-
GEORGIAN 
toth* ROOM, iCM latinq Masxcf .fBUZ2Y" KOUNTZ .] ondhisOtthairA   j-.-si 
HAMMOND ORGAN <lk'
WEBSTER-HAILj
SEND YOUR 
LAUNDRY HOME / 
^RAILWAY 
EXPRESS
Well call for it, whisk it away. ; 
and bring it back again. Railway . 
Express : service is safe, swift-', 
and sore.  Economical, too-rrates are lowand our send- 
lDg-itadUect service is partie-, : 
ularly popular. Prompt piclc-up 
and delivery service in all im
portant cities and towns.  For. 
service or information telephony -
Atlantic 3600 .
Depot Office 26th Street and Liberty Avenue 
Atlantic 3600 Pittsburgh. Pa
Twct,wb dNvjduuAGBNCY JNy   
NATION-WIDE RAIL-AIR SERVICE
TUNC IN OH THE HAJLWAV EXPRESS NEWS PARADE Er*ry mk fw. A* foftevlas cario;
W^W IwFAA EYA^U^X.KOTP  ROMO *WBAL KOIL VKtalc for lotti ooMUMvaaat*
926 Penn Avi
Have You Seen the New
SPfttDE KGATS
. They're Pnced Low
  . .See
M. LEVEN,.Locker. 1966-E.H.
Plebes!!
DO YOUR SKIBO DUTY 
at the
DORMITORIES 
POOD SHOP
107 WELCH H^IL 
Albert SbylocK-lAShafferf
,

---------------------------------------------------

General News-Editorial Comment-Fraternal Organizations
- Council Interprets Rules 
Autoistj C. C. C.Editorial
Auloists C. C. C.
L'.-X
V ;
maxI
J:
lift
|l
The current nation-wide agita
tion against reckless driving can 
not De over-emphasized, for the 
ever' increasing number of deaths 
and injuries caused by automobile accidents is really appalling. With last'years total cau6alties In Allegheny county surpassed during the tint ten months ol the present year, it becomes necessary for every automobile driver to be the alert and to exercise the three C8 of motordom, namely Care, Caution and Consideration.
' You cant be too Careful. Abide by the regulations governing opration of motor vehicles. The State will , supply any one requesting such information with a booklet of the motor vehicle code.  Beware of the other fellow who insists upon taking o chance. Th nesV m'><fti^'-through' 'A'Stop
' You cant be too Cautious. Dont rely too mueh upon your brakes and drive slowly. Remember that the faster you live, the fewer your days. Take the crest of a hill cautiouely and be ready for anything that may be approachingfrom the opposite direction. The while line .in' the center of the road is there for a purpose. Use your half of the road but dont take It out of . the middle. Be cautiouB when drivjog where cars are parked or where . trnillc is congested, for someonemay step out in front Nof you. Of course, you say you are In the ' right, but remember the pedestrian has the right of way at all times, ;..and there isn't any law that gives you the right to take a life or maim 
a-body.- ' You cant be too Considerate. Tho other fellow has as much right to expect you to obey the law .'as you have, to expfect the same of him. Signal when turning.or stopping. Dont turn into a moving . lane at. an intersection. Keep to the right lane if you intend to make a right turn. Dim your lights when approaching.vehicles. Exer- .else evovy precaution for safety that you expect the other fellow to observe. .Dont rely too much upon your supposedly Infallible Judgement to anticipate the behavior of other cars on the road. The law !;of; averages is against you for human nature is a funny thing; poopie change their minds too often:
.-motor vehicle traffic. Legislation .may be devised limiting the power and speed which can be built into a: car.. Possibly a. more rigid teBt for drivers wllh: a period of probation will help. In Rusala( a motorist's license Is. permanently revok-- :ed when he kills a pedestrian; 'A 'locomotive engineer .must haveyears of experience before he is givena'train/ And a locomotive' haB r.its. path prescribed for it while an auto goeB wherever the driver wlllsi;'An annual death Tate In the tens of.thousanHs and Inluries number.ing-millions do not seem to bring v people to realize the terrible dan;'ger to which humans are subjected when they venture out on the . streets. If an equal number were ... killed and wounded in a war, the '..pacifists would be shouting fromIhe housetops about .the wholesale slaughter and history would be made. By constant practice ofthe golden rule, the three Cs, Carefulness, Caution, and Consideration. will become part of your creed and the world will become a/ sate place in which to live.'
 Alfalfa IkeWhat happened >to that tenderfoot who was out here last week?' ^Badger  PeteOh, he was brus. A biology professor at Allegheny College gave his class a brief quizz ..in .which one ot the p.uestions ,:V--tWhen do the leaves' begin to
cHijp(Eangt? piatii
Editor. - : EDWARD P. WHITENews.Editor  CORNELIUS A. BLOCHINGER Staff  R.A.Lahr A. C. Grimm; W. J.Nolgot W. Wesaeley
Supplementary Term 
Grades Do Determine 
Candidate Eligibility
Engineering Nominee Is 
Declared Ineligilile 
By Council Vote
On Thursday evening, October 
24, the Night student 
venod in special session for the 
purpose of Interpreting the eligibil
ity rules wiin regard to the nation of Mr. R. T. Donovan , who w&s the successful nominee for Treasurer of the Night College of Engineering.The Council uiranhn'oiiBly .decided tbat'.Jn accordance, with tlie eligibility rules, the nomination - of Mr. Donovan was not in order and therefore void. As a result, Mr. D. O. Davie, who received the second highest number of votes, was declared elected to the office of Treasurer of the College of Engineering.The responsibility for the Interdent council. In any controversy
necessity lor Councils action arose at the recent Engineers election. The rule in question appears on page 34 of the night student Handbook under Section AEligibility to hold Officeparagraph 4, and reads as follows: A student must have earned passing grades in all subjects in the previous term only (or last term enrolled in Night Scbooi). Mr. Donovan, aware of his deficient grade received for the supplementary term accepted the nomination and received the highest number of votes for the office. After this fact was made known to the assembly, Mr. A. C. Grimm, President of Night Student Council,
no decision could be made on the reseult of the election for that office until Council bad defined^ the status' of supplementary term
Council took immediate action in .is case to preclude the possibility of a similar occuirence in the Industries election. The Council wishes to emphasize the fact that tew rulng has beep made .to r the case, but a proper Inter
MflT LIGHTS
Herb Stone led the girl friend 
to the altar last weekto be mar
ried to someone else . This be
ing tho seventh time it has hap
pened, Herb 1s thinking of Incor
porating blmself as a matrimonial 
agency ... Poker Potentate" Roup even carries poker chips to school . . . The fellow whose License Number is C9855 goes Chuck Roup one better by bringing his dog to school.
teally three sexes, male, femala, and male-schoolteachers." The design class Isnt quite the some this' year without'Marjorie Thoma there to throw her paints and brushes around". . . Another deserter from the ranks is RusBell Caywood who is taking psychology Instead, the softy . . . The Chemistry and Physics lab breakage' fees are just beginning to break . . . The pretty red-head by his side makes it easy to pick Joe Tracht out when he
sympathetic audience the next time she thinkB out loud in psych clasB . . . Johnny Schurkos cunning bow tie, that he wears
ingly referred to as that farmer from Greensburg.
ed it to an Industries poster with the help of an innocent bystander, who supplied the paint . . . Tony
costumesemble a robot . . . Dave Davis ambition is to meet the girl in the Chpstevfleld ads-he. has a yearning for Mildness and Better Taste?
prestationhas been placed o
Arls Group Plans 
Armistice' Danc
The night College of Fine Arts 
wilt formally open its 1935-36.so
cial season with an Armistice day 
dance. The event will be held, in 
T.hlstle hall on November 11. Due 
tovtiie fact that no classes will-be 
held on this date, the studients 
will be given their first opportunity 
to relax from their studies and 
should attend the dance. 
cAs in past years, the dance will be free to students registered in the College of Fine Arts. An admission fee of one dollar per couple will bV charged to others. While no definite announcement' has been mado regarding the selection of an' orchestra for.. Uie event, It Is rumored that several of the better known orchestras have been contacted. The decorations will conform , to the spirit of .the .hQlidsy. . 
Council Votes 
Sum For New 
Activity Bldg.
At the last regular meeting of the retiring' Night Student Council, held October 6, the sum of $150 was. voted towards the erection of'a student Activities building. The money which will be deducted from the 1934-3& Night Student Council surplus, will be applied-to the Eudown1946 Endownment ,fi to date for an Activities bullding'ls 'approximately $18,150.
The Night Student Council has always realised ihe need of a building which would house all student activities. At the present time, the space provided for the various activities is entirely inadequate. Under the proposed plan, this condition will be eliminated.- During the schoolyear of 1027-28, the Council first: endorsed this - project, and since that time the fund has steadily grown. In-.MdltiQnvto4he>doaatlone of the Night and Day student councils toward the Actlvitle|fbullding. many students hare voluntarily donated their locker and breakage fe deposits toward the fund. :
Engineers Hold Successful 
Smoker; Officers Elected
Dr. Jones, Prof. Estep 
Address Group At 
. Annual Meeting
a very successful affair. Approximately 160 students attended and enjoyed the variety of entertah
everyone too.
The festivities were opened by President Vensel who told in a few. wordB the -purpose of the meeting and introduced the guests of the
Increased enrollment of the school and ItB significance. Professor Estep then recounted many of hls-inan Interesting talk on the place of the well-trained engineer in politics. Mr. McKelway, whose humorthe humor.
The entertainment consisted of an entire floor show, with the ceptlon of the orchestra, but the versatile M. C. with his subtle humor and musical way with a guitar made up for that-deficiency. The brother and sister' dancing team was the equal of any stage performers while the blues singer kept everyone wide awake. Very wide awake, we might add.
The election of officers to i sent the Night College of Engi ing In .the Night Student Council was the next order of the evening, and was conducted under the supervision of Council 'President A. CGrlmm. The results of the election are CJ. Blscup, president k Maurer, vice president Cfeo. McCormack. secretary; and D.' O. Davis,'treasurer.An appetizing luncheon of good old army chow was 'Served in good old army fashion, after which the party broke up with everyone voting the evening a most enjoyable one. It might be well to say that affairs of*.thls kind are worth, attending, for they give the night men a closer insight into the operation-of the night-school and 'enable them to become better acquainted with their felloV students. It was fratifylng to s^e: '
Tis Said
THAT the Editor Is still celebratlng hle1 victory ln the-Arts College  absent from his post last Friday.THAT a certain locker was filled with souvenirs recently.THAT Tompko can still read six places on his sllde^rule.THAT by the time this Is pubbeing only five minutes late for their final meeting.THAT Industries students will have enough literature (?) and souvenirs to last till the En glneers Banquet.THAT Wessety discusses, hut ; ,.one .swbjefct.,, "What, ,l,_ see through the Council window."THAT the young engineers In the Chem. Lab. are having a breaking good time  with the glass tubes. \THAT the-toe dancer at the Engineers Smoker has broken many a heart Some feat?THAT the Plaid staff has now become serious, with the exception of Night Lights.THAT Art Grimm is the head or them alla size 15!THAT any remarks about the bullet pencils will have to be pointed.THAT If you want to Rita you
of .the Arts ColFor a Beal Delicious 
Home-Cooked Meal
EAT AT
Marys Restaurant
327 South Craig Street.
Near Forbes Street 
- Try Our Special 25c Luncheon 
EAT WHERE YOUR FRIEND6
Special Parking 
Rules Enforced
In addition to the parking rnles published recently.In the Plaid, a few other items are brought to the attention of the students who drive to and from school. For the past week or so, a few careless students have been parking their cars on the park lawn at the curve in the lower end of industries drive. Evidently they fail to realize the consequences ef such acts. In the future, any1 cars so parked will be towed a.way. This will lead to more strict enforcement of parking regulations with the result tb,at more persons than the offenders will suffer.- By way of illustration, this same situation developed several years ago
tot difficult for thieves to work about cars parked on the campus in the evening, but
fellmWhen you park, place your car fortably close to the next cariS take more room than your Th problem of finding more for parking is an acute one ? not abuse the provided space.
Of benefit lo the Night school cd* dents who use the parking lot. the rear of Machinery hall a n" new guard rails which have hZrected t the edge' of the embar? ment. -This improvement not tends to Increase the safety or. ing In the area but also tends tnk crease parking facilities, In >tM tlon, a new lighting fyelem t, been installed which should heln eliminate some of the exIeUoe h. arde. Students using this areecautioned against backing th* cars IntjO the rail because ot tha suing gamage to their care, fo* near future. flood lights  erected in the parking area at garet Morrison college. The w  ig space behind Engineering^]
ini p
SAVE MONEY, too.
Call after 7 P. M..when 
low Night Rates apply 
on all Station-to-Station - 
Calls on which the day
THE BELL ^TELEPHONE COMPANY OF PENNSYLVANIA
They ain't stream 
or air conditionedbut they sure are mild 
and they sure got taste
rr. made of :
mild ripe tobaccos... 
we believe Chester
fields will addalot: 
ter your pleasure.
LIGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
__
