Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
SPORTSFORUMSCITECH
Mobot perserveres despite damp conditions  A4SDC comes out on top in Sweepstakes  A10Carnival party mentality under debate  A7
thetartan.org
@thetartan
April 22, 2013
Volume 107, Issue 25
Olympus showcases innovations
BRIAN TRIMBOLI 
Assistant News Editor
The Project Olympuss show 
and tell event gave alumni and 
other Carnegie Mellon af?liates a chance to show off their 
latest innovations. 
The event, which took place 
last Thursday in the University 
Centers McConomy Auditorium, attracted a large audience 
of students and alumni alike.
The event opened with a 
talk from Lenore Blum, founding director of Project Olympus 
and professor of computer science.
Project Olympus provides 
help to Carnegie Mellon students and faculty who are 
trying to commercialize new 
ideas. 
According to its website, 
Project Olympus is, bridging 
the gap between cutting-edge 
university research/innovation and economy-promoting 
commercialization for the bene?t of our communities.
Blum talked about the 
role of students in many nowprominent startups and the 
aggressive recruitment of students by already-existing startup companies. 
Our students are in great 
demand, and are getting fantastic jobs at the coolest startups on the planet. In fact, we 
were fueling  and we still are 
fueling  the high-tech economy across the planet, Blum 
said.
The ?rst demonstration of 
the show-and-tell came from 
Jay Whitacre, a professor of 
materials science and engineering and engineering and 
public policy, who gave a presentation about new ideas for 
energy storage using innovative materials. 
The more we look to integrate renewable [energy sources] with the grid, the more we 
have to handle the intermittencies of those renewables, 
Whitacre said. You can imagine putting a very large battery 
with this kind of source. If you 
can do that, you can transform 
something thats unreliable to 
something with a base load of 
a power.
The next presentation, from 
professor of computer science 
Zico Kolter, also focused on energy research. 
As stated in the events program, Kolter described computational approaches of sustainable energy demands: how 
machine learning can help. 
Kolters talk centered on 
ideas that would improve the 
power meters that homes already have by making them 
smart meters, which intelligently monitor energy usage to 
promote conservation.
The next portion of the 
event was a focus on startups 
and app developers featuring several Carnegie Mellon 
students and alumni, including Matt Stewart (ETC 12), 
junior business management 
major Steve Musche, junior 
mechanical engineering major 
Arden Rosenblatt, and Ph.D. 
candidate in machine learning 
Prashant Reddy.
Stewart described his startup, Digital Dream Labs, which 
creates apps for the iPad to foster childrens learning. 
Musche talked about Know 
Your Style, a startup designed 
to make shopping easier for 
men by simplifying clothing 
options, while Rosenblatt talked about The PieceMaker  a 
3-D ?ash image slider  and 
the potential of 3-D printing 
technology. 
Reddy talked about Lumator, a startup designed to help 
consumers make smarter enJeffrey Zaslow remembered
JACKSON LANE 
Senior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon hosted a 
gala in memoriam of the late 
Jeffrey Zaslow and unveiled 
a plaque in his honor last Friday.
Zaslow (H&SS 80) was 
an accomplished journalist 
for The Wall Street Journal 
and a best-selling author. 
He passed away in February 
2012, at the age of 53, due to 
injuries suffered in a car accident.
 He is survived by his wife, 
Sherry Margolis, and three 
daughters, Jordan, Amber, 
and Eden, all of whom were 
in attendance at the memorial in the lobby of the Purnell 
Center.
Zaslow is probably best 
known as the co-author of 
The Last Lecture (2008), 
about the late Carnegie Mellon professor of computer 
science Randy Pausch. 
Co-written with Pausch 
shortly after he was diagnosed with pancreatic cancer 
and given only a few months 
to live, the inspirational book 
is given to all incoming ?rstyear classes to read prior to 
convocation.
In his opening remarks at 
the gala, President Jared Cohon remarked how the university often asked Zaslow 
to speak at convocation and 
how Zaslows speeches could 
bring the ?rst-years to tears. 
It is hard to believe that 
future classes wont be able 
to hear him speak, Cohon 
said.
The main speakers at 
the memorial included several people who had known 
Zaslow personally during 
his undergraduate years at 
Carnegie Mellon. 
[Zaslow] was by far my 
best student, remarked professor of creative writing and 
English Gerald Costanzo, a 
former professor of Zaslow. 
His work was legendary, at 
least in the eyes of his professor and also in the eyes of 
his peers.
Many people dont know 
this story, but Jeff almost 
didnt graduate from here 
[Carnegie Mellon]. Midway through junior year, he 
actually transferred to Columbia, said Fred Siegel, 
Zaslows roommate at Carnegie Mellon. 
According to Siegel, however, Zaslow quickly realized he had made a terrible misSee ZASLOW, A3
See OLYMPUS, A3
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
A ceremony was held for the unveiling of a plaque to honor Zaslow.
Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  April 22, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFSweepstakes buggy design competition
WEATHER
Intoxicated Trespasser
April 14, 2013
An intoxicated student was 
cited for disorderly conduct, 
public drunkenness, and underage drinking after he was 
found sleeping in the bed of 
a Carnegie Mellon student 
who leases a room in Webster 
Hall. University Police were 
contacted after the man was 
found sleeping in the apartment. The male was identi?ed 
by police and was transported 
to the hospital by city medics 
for further treatment.
Theft 
April 15, 2013
A students drawstring bag 
was taken from near the food 
counter in the Tartans Pavilion around 3:30 p.m. The student was speaking to a friend 
at the counter when the bag 
was taken without his knowledge. The bag is black and 
contains the students wallet, 
Carnegie Mellon ID, cash, and 
house keys.
Harassment 
April 15, 2013
A female student contacted 
University Police to report a 
black male dressed in all black 
verbally harassing her outside 
Lulus Noodles. University 
Police responded and located 
the man, who was determined 
to be homeless. The male 
was advised that if he did not 
cease his verbal harassment, 
he would be charged with a 
crime.
Theft
April 17, 2013
University Police were 
summoned to Smith Hall to 
take a theft report. A professor 
reported that his silver Apple 
MacBook Air was stolen from 
his of?ce on the second ?oor 
of Smith Hall. The professors of?ce was left unlocked 
around 1:00 p.m., and the 
computer had been stolen 
when he returned 10 minutes 
later. This investigation is ongoing.
Retail Theft
April 17, 2013
A staff member at the 
Heinz Caf in Hamburg Hall 
reported a black male dressed 
in all black around the age of 
50 stealing a cup of noodles 
from the caf between 1:00 
and 1:15 p.m. The staff waited 
approximately 1520 minutes 
before calling the police. 
Underage Drinking
April 18, 2013
University Police issued 
three citations for underage 
drinking to Carnegie Mellon 
students who were drinking in 
Hamerschlag House. The police were summoned by a resident assistant who suspected 
that a party was occurring in 
a students room.
Underage Drinking
April 18, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon student 
was cited for underage drinking after he began to verbally 
taunt another student at the 
AB Comedy show. The police 
were asked to speak to the 
male who was con?rmed to 
be underage and intoxicated. 
The male was evaluated by 
CMU EMS and was escorted 
to his residence.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Before Fridays and Saturdays exciting buggy races, racing teams displayed their buggy designs for viewing in Wiegand Gym. Since 1920, buggy 
racing has become an integral part of Spring Carnival and Carnegie Mellon culture, with teams designing and building their own buggies.
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Senior chemical engineering major Nancy Ko was 
selected as a fellow with the 
Congress-Bundestag Youth 
Exchange for Young Professionals (CBYX), a year-long, 
federally funded fellowship for study and work in 
Germany.
Ko was among the 75 students selected from an applicant pool of 600 for the 
fellowship program. CBYX is 
a scholarship exchange program funded by the German 
Bundestag and the U.S. Congress. Selected fellows are 
trained in business, technical, engineering, vocational, 
and agricultural ?elds while 
in Germany. In exchange, 
CBYX helps place young German professionals in the U.S. 
to experience the American 
work ?eld.
Ko will attend a twomonth intensive German language course, study at a university or professional school 
for four months, and complete a ?ve-month internship 
with a German company in 
her career ?eld.
Im extremely excited 
and honored to be part of this 
wonderful opportunity as I 
continue to pursue my career 
goals, Ko said in a university 
press release. 
My CMU studies have 
given me an excellent problem-solving platform for any 
job I will ultimately tackle.
Head of the chemical engineering department Andrew Gellman also stated in 
a university press release, 
Were very proud of Nancy 
as she augments her CMU 
experience with a global 
look at how important the 
engineering profession is to 
a variety of industry sectors. 
Our students are leaders in 
developing novel solutions to 
a variety of pressing societal 
issues.
This year marks the 30th 
anniversary of CBYX. Since 
1984, approximately 1,650 
Americans have been awarded this fellowship, an opportunity for them to gain cultural, theoretical, and practical 
work experience while residiing in Germany.
CMU senior wins prestigious fellowship
Qatar student develops car safety program
Sophomore business 
administration major Mohammed Al Matwi at CMU 
Qatar developed a new and 
creative way to raise awareness on the dangers of irresponsible driving. His safety 
campaign, entitled Ahmeek 
(meaning Ill protect you in 
Arabic), won him the award 
for the Carnegie Mellons 
Doha Community Engagement Program (DCEP).
For his project, Al Matwi 
recruited 20 volunteers to 
stage ?ash-mob scenes on 
car safety and accidents 
across campus. I felt that 
car safety is one of the issues 
that we are facing right now 
and that we should take action, Al Matwi said, quoted 
in a university press release.
There is high incidence 
of car accidents in the country and I believe its time 
for us to step up and take 
action to effect change, Aisha Fakhroo, one of the volunteers, told The Peninsula 
Qatar.
The volunteers live the 
experience, feeling the emotions that they show to the 
audience through the scenes. 
So both are in?uenced by the 
act  the volunteers who 
show the act and the people 
who see the act, Al Matwi 
said. But he wants to take 
it to the larger community 
[and make] it a sustainable 
project, Al Matwi said.
FRIDAY
High / Low
64 / 50
SATURDAY
High / Low
63 / 51
SUNDAY
High / Low
59 / 46
TUESDAY
High / Low
67 / 56
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
56 / 40
THURSDAY
High / Low
56 / 43
Compiled by
NOL UM
Alan Vangpat/Senior Staff Photographer
Table-sharing initiative to take on Tazza DOro space issues
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor 
Since spring break, Tazza 
DOro has begun offering tablesharing placards, backed by a 
Student Senate initiative.
The placards, available at 
the counter in the center of 
Tazza DOro, indicate that a 
person is willing to share his or 
her table with a stranger. The 
initiative is based on similar table-sharing initiatives in some 
local cafs.
The Student Senate Business Affairs Committee, headed by second-year architecture 
student and CFA Senator Travis 
Rozich, chose Tazza DOro as a 
pilot location for the table-sharing program because of its popularity and manageable size. 
Its a little smaller-scale, 
said senior economics and 
statistics and decision science 
double major Will Weiner, who 
oversaw the program two years 
ago directly as Student Senate chair, and more remotely 
as student body president last 
year. Its a little bit easier to 
control, in terms of traf?c, to 
pilot it. 
If table sharing goes well 
at Tazza DOro, Senate hopes 
to expand the program to the 
second ?oor of the University 
Center, where there have been 
space concerns.
So far, Rozich thinks the 
initiative is going well. Every 
time Ive been there Ive seen 
people utilizing the program, 
he said. Rozich said there was 
positive feedback to the original announcement of the program. When we posted about 
table-sharing on the [Student 
Senate] Facebook with links to 
the article that we wrote on the 
Senate website, we had a lot of 
views  more views than weve 
had on our website, he said. 
Weve had mostly positive support. 
According to Rozich, Student Senate will soon be passing out surveys at Tazza DOro 
to get feedback from students 
on the program.
If there is one obstacle to the 
table-sharing initiative, it may 
be lack of awareness.
Senior international relations and politics major Julie 
Kim, who comes to Tazza DOro 
two to three times a week, said 
that she would de?nitely share 
a table with someone who had 
put up a placard, and would 
probably pick up a placard herself  if she were aware of the 
program. 
I feel like I would, Kim said. 
I guess I didnt know about it. 
Not everyone is as comfortable 
with the idea as Kim. Biomedical engineering Ph.D. student 
Natasha Loghmanpour, who 
was also unaware of the tablesharing initiative, said that she 
would probably share a table 
with somebody who had picked 
up a placard. But as for picking 
one up herself? Probably not, 
Loghmanpour said. Its not my 
?rst choice, to be honest. 
But Weiner thinks that if 
these initial hurdles can be 
overcome, the program shows 
promise. If it can get established and people accept that 
as the norm, itll be a good program, Weiner said. It will help 
space be utilized better.

---------------------------------------------------

ALVIN MATHEW 
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon and Evive 
Station recently entered into 
a contract together to ?nd an 
ef?cient and cost-effective 
way of moving away from using disposable plastic water 
bottles on campus.
Founded in 2011 by Pittsburgh native and West Virginia University (WVU) graduate 
Thomas Petrini, Evive Station 
offers users the ability to sanitize and re?ll their reusable 
Evive bottles with puri?ed 
water, through the use of a 
device roughly the size of a 
vending machine.
According to the companys website, Evive Stations 
are placed in high-traf?c areas on college or corporate 
campuses for free.
Filling a bottle with water takes 30 seconds; sanitizing and ?lling a bottle takes 
60 seconds. Upon hearing 
about the startup, School of 
Computer Science Director of 
Buildilng Facilities Jim Skees 
says that the university was 
interested.
Its something we had really thought about. Plastic 
bottles of Dasani water and 
bottles out of vending machines are expensive and generate a lot of waste. And many 
bottles end up in land?lls. So 
when Evive came up to us, 
it was almost too good to be 
true.
The water from Evive is 
different from normal water 
fountains, Skees points out.
These are machines 
which ?lter water and can 
also wash bottles, sanitize 
with chlorine, and 
?ll water bottles. 
And the only 
cost for a user 
would be the 
bottle, which is 
$10. And we only 
have to pay the 
cost for electrical utilities, with 
the machines being monitored and 
restocked when 
needed by the company. In fact, their 
income comes not 
so much from bottle 
sales but from advertisement spots on the 
machine.
So far, there has 
been limited exposure to the 
Evive machines on campus, 
with only one machine currently installed.
It launched several weeks 
ago on Gates six, Skees said. 
We really only want to have 
it as SCS space right now, but 
hopefully Evive will have other spots, including possibly in 
Tepper.
They are rapidly expanding though, he said. There 
are Evive machines in WVU, 
Slippery Rock, and plans 
with American Eagle Out?tters and UPMC. Theyve been 
pleasant to work with, and 
there doesnt appear to be a 
catch or anything in 
small print.
Students seem 
to be accepting 
of having Evive 
machines around 
campus.
Its better 
for the environment, ?rst-year 
architecture major Carter Nelson said. [Its 
also] better to 
promote ... over 
... plastic water 
bottles [that] 
would harm the 
environment.
As long as it wouldnt affect our tuition, yeah, Im all 
for it, said ?rst-year mechanical engineering major Luke 
Tsai.
People who are interested 
in having specially compatible Evive bottles can register 
on evivestation.com, and can 
create a pro?le where they 
can view how many plastic 
bottles they have saved.
April 22, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
take and re-enrolled at Carnegie Mellon a mere two weeks 
later.
Assistant Dean of Student 
Affairs Anne Witchner emphasized how Zaslows gift for 
writing in part stemmed from 
his genuine interest in other 
people.
The university frequently 
brought Jeff back to speak 
to the English staff and students. [When talking to 
students after his speeches] 
he wouldnt leave until he had 
talked to everyone waiting to 
talk to him, Witchner said.
She explained that she 
could tell that those students 
were sharing conversations 
that they hadnt shared with 
anyone else.
After the speakers, Cohon 
closed the event by introducing the new plaque commemorating Zaslow and announcing the Endowed Jeffrey L. 
Zaslow Scholarship for Writing Students.
Cohon emphasized how 
Zaslows plaque stands facing 
the plaque commemorating 
Pausch at the Purnell-side entrance of the Pausch Bridge, 
emphasizing the relationship 
between the two men.
While Cohon stressed how 
unfortunate it is that incoming classes will now never get 
a chance to meet Zaslow, he 
suggested that future generations of students to come will 
turn to read this plaque when 
crossing the Pausch Bridge  
and know what an incredible 
man Zaslow was.
CMU accomplishments displayed
ergy choices.
The show-and-tell then 
featured students from TartanHacks, introduced by the 
founder and the director of 
ScottyLabs, senior computer 
science major Amy Quispe 
and junior human-computer 
interaction major Julia Teitelbaum, respectively.
Teitelbaum described TartanHacks as a hacking competition that differs from other, 
similar offerings.
We wanted TartanHacks 
to be a different kind of hackathon, in a couple of different 
ways. We wanted it to address a more diverse crowd of 
students, and to place more 
value on innovative ideas and 
participants learning, and not 
just a technical challenge, Teitelbaum said.
The TartanHacks Stars, 
as the events program calls 
them, were sophomore information systems major Kevin 
Schaefer, sophomore computer science major Hayden 
Demerson, sophomore electrical and computer engineering major Shane Smith, 
junior computer science majors Avesh Singh and Daniel 
Deutsch, and senior humancomputer interaction majors 
Kristina Lustig and Michael 
Helmbrecht. 
The last portion of the 
event was a short lecture from 
Shanna Tellerman (CFA 03, 
ETC 05), titled The Entrepreneurial Mindset.
The Project Olympus 
show-and-tell concluded with 
a reception in the University Centers Connan Room, 
where attendees could meet 
the entrepreneurs who had 
presented while sampling the 
new technologies hands-on.
New Evive water stations aim to 
increase campus sustainability
Plaque unveiled for Zaslow
OLYMPUS, from A1
ZASLOW, from A1
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Held during Spring Carnival, Project Olympus is geared to act as a show-and-tell presentation showcasing the 
accomplishments of students, alumni, and professors
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
The university celebrated Zaslows gift with an event and a new plaque.

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  April 22, 2013
Rain fails to dampen 19th annual Mobot competition
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
When Pittsburgh was 
awakened by heavy downpour Friday morning, many 
were skeptical about whether 
the 19th Annual Mobot Races 
would still take place. But as 
noon approached, the rain 
died down to a drizzle and 
eventually subsided, and a 
crowd gathered around the 
course outside Wean Hall.
The course consists of a 
white path drawn on the sidewalk outside Wean Hall. The 
line starts above the stairs and 
quickly transitions into a 28-
inch downhill drop. The course 
then becomes a series of winding turns with several small 
metal gates through which 
the mobot must pass. After another 46-inch drop, the mobot 
must face the last part of the 
course: decisionpoints. In this 
part of the course, there are 
several points at the which the 
white path branches into two 
and the mobot must correctly 
choose the one leading to the 
next gate or else risk following 
a diverted path that results in 
a longer course time.
Greg Armstrong, a senior research technician at 
the Carnegie Mellon Robotics Institute, was the Mobot 
Race announcer. Dressed 
in a traditional Scottish kilt 
and carrying a very realisticlooking sword, Armstrong 
amused the crowd with fun 
facts about Pittsburgh as the 
crowd watched the competitors brave the wet and windy 
course conditions.
The ?rst competitor was  
StringRay, a one-man team 
consisting of electrical and 
computer engineering masters student Kwabena Agyeman. StringRay could only 
make it through one gate on 
its ?rst trial; it was soon followed by three other mobot 
competitors.
Megubot was a fatherdaughter team consisting of 
Megan McKelvey, a former CMite student, and her father, 
Terry McKelvey. Revo was a 
one-man team and consisted 
of senior electrical and computer engineering major Daniel Jacobs. MoBoss was much 
larger and consisted of electrical and computer engineering 
?rst-years Cosku Acay, Edwin 
Cho, Kenneth Li, Nishant Pol, 
and Oguz Ulgen, and ?rst-year 
mechanical engineering major 
Sam Zeng.
The results of the 19th 
Annual Mobot Races are as 
follows: in the Open Class 
category, StringRay took ?rst 
prize, passing through Gate 5 
with a time of 1:08.48; in the 
Exhibition category, Megubot 
got through Gate 11 with a 
time of 1:31.25; in the Undergraduate category MoBoss 
received ?rst prize, moving 
through Gate 12 with a time 
of 1:48.37, and Revo received 
second prize, moving through 
Gate 9 with a time of 1:12.10.
The Mini-Challenge, which 
occurred the Wednesday before the Mobot Races, consists 
solely of the race course between the two drops (before 
the area with decision points). 
Revo completed the MiniChallenge in 33.36 seconds 
and MoBoss completed it in 
24.86 seconds.
On race day, each team 
had three chances to complete 
the course. The ?rst and second rounds occurred during a 
break in the rain, but it started raining again for the third 
round. For each race,  members of the crowd would crane 
their necks and walk along 
the concrete sidewalk as the 
mobots advanced forward in 
the course. Each time a mobot 
passed through a gate, Armstrong would lead the crowd 
in a cheer: Hip, hip, hooray!
One time, after the crowd 
cheered loudly for a mobot 
passing through a gate, the 
mobot jerked toward the side 
and ran off the track. Maybe 
the mobot had sound sensors, 
a man in the crowd mused. 
Did we scare it? While this 
prediction is probably farfetched, there were many 
other factors that affected the 
performance of the mobots. 
For example, since it rained 
before the start of the races, 
there were patches of the concrete that were wet and darker 
than the rest of the sidewalk. 
Some of the mobots had trouble ?nding the white line in 
such patches.
According to Dan Bothell 
(SCS 96), who was once an 
undergraduate competitor of 
the Mobot Races and is now 
on the committee that helps 
run it, the Mobot Races have 
evolved substantially over  
the past few years. While 
the early-year mobots used 
simple light sensors and basic 
custom-built controllers, more 
recent mobots use much more 
advanced technology, such as 
the built-in cameras found in 
smartphones. The interesting 
thing about that, said Bothel, 
is that even with the extra 
computing power available, it 
is still a dif?cult task.
We walk past the mobot 
course on our way to class 
every day, but what we dont 
realize is how dif?cult it is to 
build a robot with the reasoning capabilities to navigate 
along the white path through 
the metal gates. This years 
Mobot Races showed us just 
how challenging a task it is.
HOW THINGS WORKInternet with no strings attached
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Staffwriter
You have probably used 
Wi-Fi at least once  on campus, at airports and coffee 
shops, or at home. Have you 
ever paused to think of how 
this super-convenient means 
of Internet connectivity actually works?
The Internet basically 
works through an exchange 
of data between devices, typically a client (the device that 
you are using) and a server, 
which processes your request 
for web pages and sends them 
to your device. Traditionally, 
these devices are connected 
through physical wiring. Modern Wi-Fi does away with the 
need for these wires by allowing the exchange of data wirelessly through radio waves.
Wi-Fi-enabled devices have 
an embedded chip called the 
wireless network adapter. This 
chip is responsible for generating radio waves corresponding to the requested web resource and transmitting them 
to the surrounding space. 
These waves are received by 
a router, which then forwards 
the request to the appropriate 
server through a wired connection. When the requested 
web page is received at the 
router, it transmits corresponding radio waves back to 
the device.
According to the website 
howstuffworks.com, the radio 
waves used in Wi-Fi transmissions are typically of high frequency  in the range of 2.4 
to ?ve gigahertz. The high frequency allows these waves to 
transmit much more data than 
ordinary radio waves, such 
as those used in cellphones, 
walkie-talkies, and televisions.
The routers that help establish Wi-Fi are the key components of wireless access points, 
popularly known as hotspots. 
According to the Encyclopedia 
Britannica, these hotspots typically have a range of less than 
100 meters (330 feet), but can 
be limited to a room or house 
by radio-wave-blocking walls. 
They can also be extended to 
cover large areas, such as college campuses, through multiple overlapping access points, 
which reinforce the network. 
Incidentally, Carnegie Mellon was the ?rst college campus to set up a campus-wide 
Wi-Fi network. This network, 
dubbed Wireless Andrew, 
was set up in 1993, long before Wi-Fi gained its current 
popularity.
Nowadays, laptops, smartphones, tablets, and other devices are manufactured with 
the embedded wireless network adapter chip. This enables the device to detect and 
connect to hotspots within 
range. Since this chip is universal, it allows the device to 
access a Wi-Fi hotspot anywhere in the world.
Setting up a Wi-Fi hotspot 
is easy. To set it up in a home or 
private space, all you need is a 
router that contains a wireless 
access point and either a digital subscriber line modem or a 
cable modem. These are widely available and can be easily 
installed at a convenient spot. 
Several compatible devices 
can simultaneously use a single router. In public spaces, 
cellular companies typically 
provide Wi-Fi, allowing their 
subscribers to access their respective hotspots.
Wi-Fi is very convenient, 
since hotspots are unobtrusive 
and relatively easy to set up 
compared to wired networks. 
However, wireless connection 
is not as secure as its wired 
counterpart: An intruder can 
tap into the Wi-Fi and intercept the communication to 
and from your device. Hence, 
it is typically advisable not to 
access sensitive data online 
while tapping the Wi-Fi in 
public places like airports or 
coffee shops.
Wi-Fi connections like the 
one at Carnegie Mellon and 
in most homes are password 
protected and locked to outsiders. Thus, they provide an 
additional layer of security, 
but only if a strong password 
is used. Carnegie Mellon provides the campus community 
with an even more secure 
Wi-Fi service called CMUSECURE, which addresses 
various vulnerabilities typical in Wi-Fi networks. Thus, 
as frequently as possible, 
you should try to connect to 
CMU-SECURE while on 
campus.
Mystery surrounds Chinese bird ?u
With 82 cases of a new 
bird ?u in China, public 
health of?cials are trying to 
determine how the virus is 
spread. The virus, H7N9, has 
been detected in poultry, pigeons, chickens, and ducks. 
The World Health Organization, however, stresses that 
some of people infected have 
not had contact with birds. 
There is also little evidence 
that the virus is spread between humans.
The outbreak in China has 
killed 17 people and hospitalized many more with severe 
respiratory problems. Most 
of the human cases have occurred near Shanghai, although two isolated incidents 
have been found in Beijing.
Source: NPR  
Mice and humans enjoy being carried
According to a report 
published in Current Biology, both human and mouse 
infants calm down simply by 
being held by their parents. 
The researchers believe that 
this calm may be advantageous for the survival of both 
the parent and infant; it is 
much easier for parents to 
escape a predator with a baby 
in a trance-like state.
The scientists attached a 
heart monitor to 12 human 
babies and observed them 
while their mothers sat them 
up, placed them in a crib, 
and carried them. The babies 
immediately relaxed when 
picked up by their mothers. 
Similarly, the mice infants 
relaxed and had a decreased 
heart rate when carried by 
their mothers.
Source: Science News
SCITECH BRIEFS
Scientists question cause of drought
Climate change was probably not the cause of the 2012 
droughts in the U.S. midwest, 
according to a report released 
by the United States National 
Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Association (NOAA). Some 
climate scientists have questioned this conclusion.
The NOAA scientists ran 
computer simulations in order to determine why forecasts failed to predict the 
droughts. Their simulations 
inferred that the droughts 
would have occurred regardless of global warming, and 
instead blame it on natural 
variability in the atmosphere. 
Some climate scientists disagree, saying that the climate 
models used were insuf?cient.
Source: NewScientist
Rats receive new engineered organ
Researchers stripped a 
rats kidney of its cells and 
repopulated it with new 
ones, showing that a bioengineered kidney can function in 
a similar manner to a normal 
one. Dr. Harald Ott of Harvard Medical School took the 
kidney of a rat cadaver and 
removed its cells by putting it 
in detergent. This process left 
behind only the extracellular 
matrix and collagen that acted as a scaffold for cells. Ott 
then repopulated the kidney 
with neonatal rat cells and 
human red blood cells. The 
bioengineered kidney was 
then reinserted into a live rat.
Source: ScienceDaily
Compiled By
MICHAEL SETZERMichael Setzer/SciTech Editor
Greg Hanneman/Senior Staff Photographer
First-year mechanical engineering major Sam Zeng of MoBoss watches his mobot travel down the course.
Greg Hanneman/Senior Staff Photographer
A large crowd showed up in front of Wean Hall to watch mobile robots travel down the slalom course. 

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  April 22, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Joint Funding Committees budget remarks out of line
Social media is unreliable as a source for real news
First-year undeclared CFA student Jordan Wu created a petition 
last week through change.org to 
challenge the universitys proposed 
new Smart ID card designs.
The petition was shared among 
students on Facebook and received 
227 signatures before closing. In 
the petitions description, Wu told 
students, I would be embarrassed 
showing any of these designs to 
anyone as a representation of our 
school.
While it is justi?able for students 
to petition an unsatisfactory change 
on campus, The Tartan wants to see 
much of the fervor that was shown 
over the ID designs channeled toward more pressing matters. ID 
designs affect most people on campus, as students use them on a daily 
basis, but the image on the IDs will 
not directly impact a students wellbeing. Admittedly, the designs are 
part of campus culture, but they do 
not de?ne it and will not change the 
image of Carnegie Mellon to outside 
parties.
Meanwhile, more important 
Carnegie Mellon issues have not 
caused nearly the same amount of 
student concern. For example, both 
Carnegie Mellons 10-year expansion plan and student elections are 
vastly more relevant to student life, 
but have not received nearly as much 
attention. The 10-year plan proposes 
changes to Carnegie Mellons physical campus that will directly and signi?cantly alter students daily lives, 
while student elections affect everything from what happens on campus 
to our schools image to the rest of 
the world. 
These issues are more important 
than the designs of our new IDs, 
and should generate just as much or 
more controversy among the student 
body than the designs did.
Regardless of ones stances on 
these controversies, issues much 
larger than the new proposed ID 
designs exist on campus. If students 
gave as much attention to these issues as they have to the new ID designs, they would be a true catalyst 
for change.
The Joint Funding Committee 
(JFC)s appeals process for 2014 organization budgets concluded last 
week, leaving many student leaders 
and organization members unhappy 
with the treatment they received 
from the JFC. Comments and exceptions made on BudgetTracker during 
the approval process are incongruous with the professionalism the JFC 
is supposed to uphold.
WRCTs budget feedback largely 
consisted of the JFC asking why 
the radio stations equipment keeps 
breaking; Amnesty Internationals 
campus chapter, which requested funding for documentary ?lm 
screenings, was left with the remark, 
Find cheaper movies; and the JFC 
made a comment at the end of Sustainable Earths budget that Your 
FY12 audit showed you really dont 
understand the concept of budgeting. Your current year spending is 
not really in line with your budget 
either. The JFC would like to meet 
with you prior to giving you any 
money. Please appeal.; appeal granted. Dont screw it up, Matt. 
Other organizations received 
similar rude comments. On the 
ScotchnSoda budget, many unprofessional comments were made. 
One comment pointed out that the 
theater group had misnamed a type 
of tape they were requesting money 
for: Its actually called fabric tape
..#VPFdoestheatre.
With respect to budget increases, 
the AB Concerts budget increased to 
$232,825 after the appeals process, 
an increase from the pre-appeals 
?gure of $196,785. AB Concerts did 
not ask for this increase, according to 
AB Concerts co-chair Rebecca Paren. 
Both of these ?gures are substantially larger than the $130,790 the 
organization operated with last year. 
Giving an organization more money 
than what it requested is unprecedented, at least since 2010, according to BudgetTracker. 
While next year will be the 100th 
Spring Carnival  and its understandable that students would want 
to celebrate accordingly  this 
$102,035 increase for one event 
comes at the expense of numerous 
other organizations that now have to 
operate on limited budgets.
Additionally, the only organization to receive an exception from the 
strictly implemented JFC funding 
guidelines for food was AB Tech. The 
JFCs guidelines do not allow funding for personal food; however, AB 
Techs BudgetTracker comment said, 
Exception made for you guys cause 
you work so darn hard.
These inappropriate comments, 
coupled with what appears to be favorable treatment of certain organizations, demonstrate unacceptable 
behavior by the JFC. Budgets for 
student groups dramatically affect 
student life. They determine what an 
organization can afford and contribute to the quality of these groups. By 
their nature, budget cuts are upsetting for those who are affected by 
them.
The JFC must be aware of the impact that their funding allocations 
have and professionally address allocations with respect to the organization members that work hard to ful?ll the interests of the student body.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
The Boston Marathon bombing was a horrible event that challenged the sense of security we take 
for granted every day. The citywide 
lockdown that occurred the following Friday further challenged that 
safety, as the Boston Police Department tried to capture the suspects. 
In the midst of this terrible series of 
events, shortcomings of social media 
came to light.
Many people ?rst heard of the attacks over Facebook or Twitter, and 
even after initial reports from of?cial 
news sources, the American public 
kept to its social Internet sources  
or to social entertainment sites such 
as Reddit  to receive live updates 
from people on or near the scene. 
These sources, though useful, come 
with drawbacks, particularly unreliability of information. As a result of 
this increased use of hasty Internet 
updates, many people believed information before it was con?rmed or 
denied by news sources.
While spreading important news 
as quickly as possible is a commendable goal of social media websites, 
users need to be aware that sources 
for that information, often average 
citizens, usually do not con?rm the 
reports they are posting. 
One of the most prominent cases 
of misinformation was the accusations against Sunil Tripathi, a Brown 
University student who has been 
missing since March 16. A thread 
on the Boston subreddit  which 
has since been deleted  incorrectly 
identi?ed Tripathi as one of the suspects in the bombings.
Clearly, individuals already turn 
to social media for instant updates. 
However, with this growing trend 
in mind, users need to be aware that 
these sources are not as reliable as 
traditional news sources. While they 
may be useful for learning preliminary information about an event, 
they should only be used as a catalyst 
to ?nd out more information from 
reliable sources. 
In the case of the bombings, Facebook or Twitter could con?rm that 
the bombings had in fact happened, 
while more reputable news sources 
could provide speci?c information 
on the number of victims, the status 
of the investigation, or the names of 
suspects.
Social media presents an immense opportunity for information 
to quickly spread among Internet 
users. However, users also risk learning incorrect information that  in 
the midst of a tragedy like the Boston bombing  could provide false 
hope, elicit false accusations, or 
present a scenario that may change 
public understanding of how dangerous the situation truly is.
Students should petition more urgent issues than IDs
WILLIAM PARK
Gun control legislation always 
faced an uphill climb  even with 
great public support. According to a 
recent poll by The Washington Post 
and ABC News, 86 percent of Americans support background checks for 
gun purchases. A CBS News poll has 
it as high as 90 percent. So why cant 
the Senate agree with the public?
Last Wednesday, gun control 
amendments to expand background 
checks and ban assault weapons failed to reach the necessary 
60 votes in the Senate. President 
Obama called it a pretty shameful 
day for Washington. Although the 
bipartisan Toomey-Manchin amendment to expand background checks 
raised hopes for a Republican compromise, that was not the case. Only 
four out of 45 Republican Senators 
joined 48 out of 53 Democrats to 
vote in support of the bill, according 
to The New York Times.
In hindsight, its easy to point 
?ngers, but placing blame on others 
should not be a focus. Some could 
say that President Obama abused his 
bully pulpit, parading the parents of 
Newtown, Conn. to shame congressmen. Others could say that Republicans are too conservative, stuck in 
the last century, and still cant accept 
their embarrassing defeat in the last 
election. One can easily ?nd different people to point ?ngers at. But 
that accomplishes nothing and does 
little to help the country progress.
As suggested by a recent report 
from The Hill, the fate of gun control 
lies in the publics hands. However, 
the public cannot vote on amendments. That power lies in the hands 
of what Nate Silver of The New York 
Times calls an ideologically divided 
House and a Senate that allows 
small conservative states to have 
just as much power as bigger blue 
states. Yet it is a Congress comprised 
of members who are voted into of?ce by the citizens, and hereon lies a 
very fundamental problem.
Many Congressmen dont feel the 
pressure from 90 percent of Americans because the only people they 
are worried about are those who 
have votes from their districts. With 
so many voting districts moving to 
extremes, there is little motivation 
for compromise  especially when 
considering the fact that Congressional re-elections are two to four 
years down the road. So unless we 
all pack up and move to North Dakota, it seems as if were in the same 
state as before: stuck.
But it isnt hopeless. The climate 
for compromise seems to be slowly 
taking shape. Obamas new proposed budget features concessions 
on his part to cut Medicare and 
Social Security. Bipartisan immigration reform seems to be gaining 
momentum. Last week, 95 Senators also voted to improve mental 
health treatment, according to The 
Huf?ngton Post.
So lets start here and work our 
way up. Lets encourage our leaders 
to ?nd a middle ground. Our political system might make reform dif?-
cult to achieve, but pointing ?ngers 
wont get us anywhere, even if there 
is plenty of blame to go around.
William Park (wkp@) is assistant 
Forum editor for The Tartan.
Leaders must cease ?re over gun control laws
President of Venezuela needs to ?ll big shoes
XIYU WANG
Nicolas Maduro was sworn in as 
Venezuelas president last Friday to 
replace Hugo Chavez. Chavez, the 
former Venezuelan president who 
died in March from cancer, handpicked his former vice president and 
long-time ally as his successor.
Maduro, like Chavez, came 
from a working-class background. 
A former bus driver who became a 
union trade leader and politician 
in Chavezs cabinet, Maduro campaigned on the platform of continuing Chavezs legacy  a commitment to Venezuelas lower classes 
and toward crafting Venezuela into 
a South American socialist state. 
In fact, much of Maduros electoral 
success is due to Maduros af?liation 
with Chavez, who retains a great 
deal of popularity among Venezuelans. Maduros campaign stressed 
that a vote for Maduro would be like 
a vote for the former president.
However, looking ahead, Maduro 
cannot simply rely on his association 
with Chavez to succeed. Although 
Chavez still has ardent supporters, 
his popularity in the past few years 
has been declining mainly due to the 
state of the Venezuelan economy.
Venezuela has the worlds largest oil reserves, but during Chavezs 
reign, there was a huge surge in government spending, contributing to 
an increase in Venezuelas national 
debt and an increase in in?ation. 
Furthermore, Venezuela currently 
has a very controlled economy. 
Chavez nationalized many companies in Venezuela and maintained 
price and currency controls, which 
have deeply weakened the private 
sector, according to Yahoo! News.
However, in his campaign, Maduro did not propose initiatives that 
would tackle these economic issues, 
instead focusing on social issues 
such as crime and corruption. Furthermore, his economic initiatives 
could contribute to higher in?ation, 
such as raising the monthly minimum wage by up to 45 percent, according to The Wall Street Journal.
Maduros mandate is also particularly weak; in an extremely close 
election, Maduro only won 50.6 
percent of the vote while facing opposing candidate Henrique Capriles. 
The opposition has even questioned 
the legitimacy of Maduros victory, 
placing further doubts on whether 
Maduro truly has the popularity 
needed to carry him through.
Succeeding the divisive, charismatic, and forceful Chavez, Maduro 
has big shoes to ?ll, and it is unclear 
whether he has the foresight, tenacity, or charisma to pull himself 
through the harder times. Maduro 
must maintain a dif?cult balancing 
act between politics, pragmatism, 
and popularity if he wants Venezuela, and his presidency, to succeed.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Jackson Lane, Daniel Tkacik, Alan 
Vangpat
COPY
Swathi Anand, Francesca Begos, Matt Brown, 
Nivedita Chopra, Ellie Erlich, Blaine Greenberg, 
Jordyn Greenberg,  Chris Han, Satvika Neti, 
Joey Peiser, Sage Po, Taylor Rawley
LAYOUT
Karthik Nagalingam
ADVERTISING
Kyle Henson, Gretchen Tan
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD *
News Co-Editor
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NOL UM
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Asst. News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
CHRISTA HESTER
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
April 22, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
The Tartan had a good time during Carnival. So we asked,
What was your favorite part of Carnival?
BRADEN KELNER
Students look forward to Carnival every year, but not for the 
reasons that most alumni return 
to campus. Carnival should not be 
characterized by the large amounts 
of alcohol that many students consume during the festival.
Yes, were all college students 
and Carnival may seem like one of 
the only times when Carnegie Mellon students can relieve their stress, 
so it may be obvious that they want 
to go crazy. 
However, theres a difference between drinking with friends while 
socializing, and drinking dangerous 
quantities of alcohol that can have 
lasting effects on your body.
Its no secret that students on 
campus celebrate Carnival by boasting about  alcohol consumption. The 
Carnegie Mellon-famous Tumblr 
blog, cometomymellon.tumblr.com, 
posted a meme for last years Carnival reading Happy F****** Carnival with accompanying pictures 
of alcoholic beverages. Meanwhile, 
doyouhearbagpipes.tumblr.com, 
another Carnegie Mellon-themed 
Tumblr blog, dedicated a post to the 
event this year with pictures of people guzzling alcohol.
Meanwhile, there were no allusions to the attractions that allure people from beyond the student body to Carnival. The website 
isitcarnivalyet.com answered the 
websites question with phrases like, 
No, but its never too early to pregame.
While there is no problem with 
drinking alcohol during Carnival (if 
youre of age, of course), drinking to 
the point of bodily harm  which 
many students look forward to most 
 should not be the festivals focus, 
especially when there are so many 
events and opportunities to take advantage of during Carnival. 
It would be a shame not to remember or to miss these events 
due to the negative effects of alcohol. Of course, theres Booth and 
Buggy, Carnivals two main attractions. There are also less-hyped 
events like Mobot, Downhill Derby, 
ScotchnSodas annual Carnival 
production, and opportunities to 
network with alumni.
What is the point of going to 
Booth drunk? Students work countless hours for these impressive 
structures. Having the experience 
of Booth distorted by alcohol does 
not allow students to truly appreciate the work that their peers put into 
it  same goes for the robots, art, 
and shows that students produce 
for Mobot, Downhill Derby, and 
ScotchnSoda, respectively.
This festival happens once a year. 
Taking the time to soberly and respectfully view the attractions at 
Carnival may even make this annual 
event more enjoyable each spring.
There are also several alumni 
events during Carnival, which give 
students the opportunity to meet 
former students. Choosing to consume alcohol during the day may 
cause students to miss these prime 
opportunities for networking.
I dont have a problem with 
drinking casually in the evenings 
with friends during Carnival. What 
bothers me is the mentality that 
students will drink excessively simply because they can, making them 
unable to appreciate the attractions 
during the day or the morning after 
a heavy night of alcohol consumption  not to mention the physical 
danger of this mentality.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is Forum editor 
for The Tartan.
Carnival should not be characterized by alcoholCarnival is a time for letting loose
CHLOE THOMPSON
Carnival is the only time of year 
that Carnegie Mellon students have 
to really have some fun. The annual 
festival happens in the spring semester, and after 99 years, Carnival 
is pretty well ingrained in Carnegie 
Mellon culture. Students look forward to it every year, and alumni 
come back to visit with their families over the course of the weekend. 
Carnival also has a bit of a reputation 
around campus as the time when 
students temporarily forget that they 
dont actually go to a party school.
This momentary change in mentality is not a bad thing  students 
need this time to de-stress. Carnegie 
Mellon students work hard during 
their academic year, but spring semester can be especially stressful 
at times. Carnival is a way to kick 
back and relax in a variety of ways, 
by going on all of the Carnival rides, 
watching buggy races, or sleeping 
until well after 3 p.m. Drinking is 
also part of that culture, whether or 
not the students involved are of age 
to drink.
However, the blow-out mentality 
of Carnival is complex; Carnival culture stems from a variety of factors. 
Firstly, were college students. As a 
demographic, we like to do potentially stupid things, and more importantly, we like to try to outdo each 
other in how crazy we can get. Carnival is one of the few times in the 
school year when students can relax 
and blow off all the steam thats been 
building since the beginning of the 
school year. With a school thats as 
stressful as Carnegie Mellon, thats a 
lot of steam.
If we want to reduce the amount 
of craziness that goes on during Carnival, events like Carnival need to 
happen more often. This theory may 
seem counterintuitive, but its not. In 
any pressurized situation, the single 
escape valve  Carnival, in this case 
 is going to see a lot of traf?c. The 
solution is not to let off less steam, 
but to create more holes for steam to 
escape through.
Carnival is not too unruly, especially given that events on the scale 
of Carnival only happen once a year. 
Yes, Carnegie Mellon students go a 
little crazy, but our antics could get 
much, much worse. Furthermore, 
Carnegie Mellon undergraduates 
tend to be between the ages of 18 
and 22  the time in life to create 
the completely insane weekend stories that well be telling when were 
40. If youre going to have weekends 
when you forget all your responsibilities and do whatever you want, now 
is the time.
While alumni and faculty are 
present with their families, little kids 
and all, they know what Carnival is 
like. Some parts  like the Wiggle 
Wurm and Granny Bugs rides, or 
some of the games in the booths  
are very family friendly. However, 
while Carnegie Mellon is a giant 
nerd herd some days, its still a college campus, and Carnival is the last 
extended weekend before ?nals. 
Things are guaranteed to get a little 
crazy, and I think thats a good thing.
With that mentality in mind, personal health and safety are still important. Carnival can be a blast, but 
remember you only have one liver. 
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is personnel 
manager for The Tartan.
KYLE HENSON
Almost everything about the way 
we do taxes in this country is wrong. 
Taking for granted that its bene?cial 
for our society to force people to pay 
money for collective services, the 
way we pay for those services can, 
and should, be done much better 
than it is now. 
I dont claim to have any answers 
to this issue, but I aim to point out a 
few problems in our current system 
and to encourage others to think outside of the box about ways that we 
 as a society  can make taxation 
more ef?cient.
First off, you shouldnt need to 
hire someone to do your taxes. You 
shouldnt need a college  or even 
high school  degree to do your taxes. Taxes should be simple and transparent. There shouldnt be things like 
the alternative minimum tax that 
force more and more people into paying a higher rate as time progresses. 
There shouldnt be special-interest 
loopholes. 
You shouldnt need to ?ll out a ton 
of forms, and there shouldnt be a 
massive bureaucracy created to process and read these forms to make 
sure theyre done correctly. Everyone 
should be able to understand exactly 
what theyre paying in taxes and why 
theyre paying that rate.
Additionally, the government 
currently collects money in numerous ways, including the corporate 
tax, income tax, and excise taxes, 
among others. The government 
should have only one or two ways to 
collect revenue in order to be simple 
and transparent so that everyone 
knows exactly why and how their 
money is taken from them.
On that note, taxing a persons 
income and effectively taxing production is not bene?cial for society, 
and is therefore not the way in which 
the government should collect taxes. 
Every economist will tell you that  
when you tax something or make it 
more expensive, there is less of it produced. We should never discourage 
production in any way; production 
is the most important thing that our 
economy does. The sign of a healthy 
economy is a growing gross domestic 
product (GDP) with lots of money in 
motion. Taxing production stops that 
from happening.
Im obviously not the ?rst person who has thought about this, 
and many people have proposed 
alternatives. 
My favorite is the FairTax. This 
system taxes consumption instead 
of production, collects revenue one 
way, and is ridiculously simple.
The FairTax eliminates all current taxes and instead levies a 23 
percent sales tax, according to 
fairtax.org. Then, at the beginning of 
each month, every American household gets a check in the mail for the 
amount of taxes they would pay up to 
the poverty line. So if you make the 
poverty line, you pay no taxes. If you 
make twice the poverty line, you pay 
half the 23 percent rate. This keeps 
the system progressive and fair.
People have proposed optional 
?at tax rates, taxation of just estates, 
and all number of revenue-gathering 
tactics. Newt Gingrich (R-Ga.) campaigned on the idea of being able to 
?ll out your taxes on an index card. 
Taxation should be reformed, and 
we as a country deserve better than 
what we have now in the realm of 
taxation.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
Lets re-evaluate the way that the United States does taxes
I dont have a 
problem with 
drinking casually 
in the evenings 
with friends during 
Carnival. What 
bothers me is the 
mentality that 
students will drink 
excessively simply 
because they can.
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Alex Egan
Information Systems
Sophomore
Buggy.
Lisha Sun
Statistics
Graduate Student
Midway rides.
Ryhan Hassan
Computer Science
Junior
Getting time off.
Josephine Sullivan
Math
Sophomore
Days off from school.
Bryan Wade
Economics
Senior
The AB Comedy Central Show.
Compiled by William Park
CONTRASTING OPINIONS

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 22, 2013
day night around 10. 5 a.m. 
always shows up a lot earlier 
than it seems like it will.
In the spring there are 
regular build sessions, as 
well as push practices every 
night at 11 p.m. in addition 
to weekend rolls. 
Generally the team has 
enough drivers that each 
driver only needs to come out 
two or three times during the 
week instead of all ?ve days. 
Im not sure my shoulders 
could handle it otherwise, 
Peterkin said.
As one of Carnegie Mellons most experienced buggy 
drivers, she takes pride in 
teaching our new drivers and 
mechanics, so the buggy tradition can carry on, she said.
Shes been an incredible resource for the younger 
drivers, Monteleone said. A 
bunch of drivers have come 
and gone, but Becky has 
stayed with us. She teaches 
them a lot, and really is a 
mentor.
Fringe driver ?rst-year 
Gillian Rosen agreed. Becky 
brings the wisdom and experience of ?ve years of driving 
and an excellent line, she 
said. Plus a laser pointer 
and a cozy bathrobe for cold 
mornings.
Becky makes all of the 
drivers feel very comfortable 
with who they are, Monteleone said. She is a good 
friend to all the drivers.
Peterkins favorite part 
of the Sweepstakes experience is the team that she is so 
dedicated to. Even though it 
sounds corny, Im just super 
grateful for a group of friends 
that I would have never had 
otherwise, she said.
The team often gets together for food, enjoying 
each others company. The 
day before the big buggy 
race, the Fringe squad holds 
a big pasta party, watches old 
race footage, and decorates 
old uniforms. Its a blast, 
Peterkin said.
Although Peterkin is unsure of what the future holds 
in terms of a career, she is 
looking for jobs and is sure 
that if I ?nd something in 
Pittsburgh, theres a very 
good chance Ill come back 
[to Fringe] as an alumni.
Although last weekend 
was the ?nal Sweepstakes of 
Peterkins career, her legacy 
is one of record-breaking 
speed and victory, Rosen 
said. Peterkin drove for both 
the womens and mens 
Fringe C teams, achieving a 
?nal time of 2:25.585 for the 
men and 3:11.434 in the preliminaries for the women.
Peterkin would love for 
buggy in general to continue 
its recent trend of growing, 
both in the numbers of teams 
involved and the amount of 
people truly committed to 
making rolls happen each 
year. 
In addition, the die-hard 
Frinja would like to see 
the team continue excelling 
in the design competition, 
and for Fringe to return to 
top speeds, she said. And of 
course, Id like to see Fringe 
written on the driver-sized 
?rst-place trophy a few more 
times.
PETERKIN, from A10
VINAY VISWANNATHAN
Staffwriter
The mens and womens 
track and ?eld teams recently had three major meets 
in preparation for the UAA 
Championships hosted by 
New York University on April 
27 and 28: the Dave Labor Invitational at Slippery Rock for 
throwers, jumpers, and sprinters on April 13, the Outdoor 
Classic at Bucknell University 
on the April 13, and the Allegheny College Tri-Meet on 
the April 16. 
The mens team had a 
mixed day in bad weather 
at Slippery Rock. The middistance side excelled, with 
sophomore Tommy Vandenberg winning the 400-meter 
dash with a time of 48.78, 
?rst-year Thomas MayoSmith placing second in the 
800, and the 4x400 relay 
team of Mayo-Smith, ?rstyear Marc-Daniel Julien, 
Vandenberg, and sophomore 
Douglas OConnell earning 
second place. Junior Zachary 
Erra-Hernandez, continuing 
an extremely strong season, 
won shot put and placed third 
in the hammer and discus 
events.
Injured ?rst-year standout 
Benjamin Neiman said the 
team had a surprising number of strong performances 
despite really bad weather.
Senior thrower Liam McGrath had a less optimistic 
view on the meet, admitting, 
It was honestly a mediocre 
day. I dont think anyone 
had a great day, but I dont 
think anyone had a particularly bad day either. Still, 
McGrath and Neiman both 
praised Hernandezs performance in the shot put.
On the womens side, junior Jane Kim received a 
personal record with her 
sixth-place 35.52-meter performance in the hammer 
throw. In the 5,000-meter 
run, sophomore Sara Kelly 
placed fourth and ?rst-year 
Sophia Greene ?nished seventh. Junior Jacqueline Guevel won the 400-meter hurdles, 
and ?rst-year Alex Lewis won 
the 400-meter dash, with 
times of 64:91 and 62:13, respectively. First-year Jenna 
Asperslag won the 100-meter 
dash with a personal record 
of 13.03, and fellow ?rst-year 
Erin Persson claimed third in 
the 1,500-meter event.
The weather was miserable, but we collectively did 
well, Asperslag said. There 
were a lot of people who had 
personal records. 
Greene agreed, saying, 
despite the cold weather and 
the winds, we performed admirably.
At Bucknell, sophomore 
Josh Newby seized sixth in 
the ?ve-kilometer event with 
a personal record of 14:41.43. 
From the women, senior Emily Wobb captured 12th in the 
5,000-meter at 17:52.27, joining sophomores Halley Bayer 
and Erin Kiekhaefer with personal records.
Mens team senior captain, 
Dan Cardenas, said of the 
Bucknell meet, The distance 
team did really well at Bucknell, adding, Josh Newby especially had a very good day.
Both the mens and womens squads captured second 
place out of three teams at Allegheny. In the javelin throw, 
junior Dave Markowitz placed 
second. Dave Markowitz, 
who throws javelin, has been 
close to hitting 50 meters in 
the past three meets, which 
is a big milestone, McGrath 
said.
Erra-Hernandez set a personal record of 51.25 meters 
in the hammer throw, winning the event. The Tartans 
swept the hammer toss, as 
junior Nathan Cheek won 
second and senior Pat Robinson received third. ErraHernandez also won the 
shot put and earned 
second in the discus 
throw.
First-year Brandon Hoane 
received a career-best 11.90 
meters with a fourth-place 
showing in the triple jump. 
Julien won second in the 
1,500, with a time of 4:09.01.
Mayo-Smith won the 800 
with a personal record of 
1:57.90 and senior Noel Titus 
received second places in both 
the 100-meter and 200-meter 
events, with a personal record 
of 10.96 seconds in the 100. 
Cardenas celebrated Titus 
performance, saying, Noel 
Titus ?nally broke 11 seconds 
in the 100, which was his college goal.
The womens team saw a 
win in the triple jump and a 
second place in the long jump 
from junior Marissa Bynoe. 
Kim won the shot put, and senior Carissa Iannone placed 
?rst in the javelin, throwing 
32.81 meters. Fellow senior 
Leila Bouabdellaoui won the 
3,000-meter steeplechase 
with a personal record of 
11:58.85, and Asperslag won 
the 200-meter dash and got 
second place in the 100-meter. First-years Taylor Maggiacomo and Elizabeth 
Snyder ?nished second 
and third respectively 
in the 1500-meter 
run. Junior Marie 
Barcic placed 
second in the 
800-meter 
run, and was 
joined by 
Persson at 
third.
Asperslag said, Allegheny was a much smaller meet 
[than other meets this year] 
... pretty much everyone did 
well.
The team has UAA Championships this coming weekend. 
Neiman said, I dont think we 
really need to improve, continuing, We have the talent  
... now we just need to go out 
and do well.
Summarizing the season as 
a whole, Cardenas said, we 
started out pretty slow but 
weve gotten much better.... 
This is probably the best year 
in program history, and there 
have been more records than 
there have been for over 25 
years.
Track and ?eld prepare for UAAsPeterkin showsFringe team drive
Becky brings 
the wisdom 
and experience 
of ?ve years of 
driving.
  Gillian Rosen
First-year driver
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

April 22, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
performances too much, 
though, as there were still 
several excellent times put in. 
The SDC mens A team won 
with a time of 2:04.987, only 
about 1.5 seconds behind the 
all-time record of 2:03.30 
that SDC set in 2009. Sigma 
Phi Epsilon (SigEp) A and 
Pi Kappa Alpha (PiKA) A  
who placed second and third, 
respectively, in the mens 
race  also did well, both 
performing incredibly close to 
last years times.
As in the preliminaries, 
there was only one crash: Sigma Nu As buggy, nicknamed 
Bungarus Krait, spun out of 
control around a curve in the 
chute and crashed into the 
hay bales lining the courses 
edge.
Since all 28 of the mens 
teams had to compete on Saturday, it took far more time 
than originally scheduled to 
complete the mens ?nals. 
Sweepstakes committee thus 
announced around 11 a.m. 
that the womens ?nals would 
be canceled, making the 
scores from the preliminary 
race the ?nal scores.
However, soon after, the 
commitee rescinded its decision and announced it would 
be holding the ?nal races after 
all, causing the buggy teams 
to frantically reorganize for 
the races. Buggy participants 
down by the trucks had mixed 
emotions; some sprung into 
action, while others protested 
the change. I just ate, one 
pusher bemoaned when she 
heard the news.
We were ready to pack 
things and be done, so no 
ones prepared to unload the 
buggies and get the wheels 
heated, and we dont know 
where all our pushers are, 
said senior Ben PattisonGordon, a pusher for the CIA 
B team. 
They all dispersed because they thought they were 
done, said Jessica Phoa, a 
sophomore pusher for CIA 
womens B team. However, 
as Pattison-Gordon noted, it 
was also understandable that 
some seniors wanted to get 
their last pushes in.
Had the scores from the 
preliminaries stood as the ?-
nal scores, SDC A still would 
have come in ?rst place at 
2:32.062, with CIA A and SDC 
B behind them. But the lastminute change did not hurt 
SDC: In its ?nal heat, SDC A 
got a time of 2:32.600. In the 
?nals, Fringe B ended up coming in second, at 2:39.004.
Junior Taryn Monteleone, 
Fringe president and pusher 
on hill two for the Fringe B 
team, said she was satis?ed 
with Fringes overall performance. We had a brand new 
team of people in charge, 
she said. Overall, as a team, 
I think we grew a lot.
BUGGY, from A10SDC sweeps Sweepstakes 
Alan Vangpat/Senior Staff Photographer
Jennifer Coloma/Publisher
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Left: SDCs Malice crashed during the mens preliminaries on Friday morning. Top: CIAs D team donned suits for 
the race. Middle: A SigEp pusher runs toward the ?nish line. Bottom: SPIRITs buggy freerolls down the chute.Kate Groschner/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A10  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  April 22, 2013
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Students, alumni, and 
parents crowded the sides of 
Tech and Frew Streets last 
Friday and Saturday to watch 
the 94th annual Sweepstakes 
competition  or Buggy, as 
it is better known within the 
Carnegie Mellon community. 
The Student Dormitory Council (SDC) came out on top 
once again in both the mens 
and womens races, with its A 
teams winning both races by 
about a four-second margin. 
This is the third year in a row 
that SDC won the womens 
race, and the second year in a 
row that it has won the mens 
race.
Eleven organizations competed in the race around the 
0.9-mile course this year. In 
addition to long-established 
buggy organizations like 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon (SAE), 
which has participated in 
Buggy off and on since the 
1920s, there were two newer 
additions to the competition: 
Apex, which raced for the ?rst 
time in 2012, and Reserve Of?cers Training Corps (ROTC). 
Although the Air Force ROTC  
competed in Buggy from 
198790, this is the ?rst year 
that Carnegie Mellons Naval 
ROTC has competed.
Fridays preliminary races 
were cut short because of rain, 
but not before the 19 womens 
teams held their preliminaries. SDC A gave a hint of what 
was to come in the next days 
races, ?nishing the womens 
preliminary a full 10 seconds 
faster than the next closest 
team, CIA A. Fringe A would 
have come in second place 
behind SDC A, had they not 
been disquali?ed for safety 
violations. There were only 
four heats on the mens side 
before rain forced the preliminaries to end, but SPIRIT 
A took the lead in races that 
were completed, with a time 
of 2:13.408. Of the races that 
did occur, there was one mishap  in a heat against ROTC 
A and Fringe B (who failed to 
show), SDC D was in the lead 
until the buggy spun out while 
going around a curve. SDC C 
and Fringe B were given a 
second chance, though, as all 
28 mens teams were rescheduled to race on Saturday because of the rain.
Although Saturday morning was windy and cold, there 
was no rain, allowing the 
races to proceed. This was 
the ?rst time in several years 
that Buggy held a full second 
day of races, as the ?nal races 
were cut short due to rain in 
both 2011 and 2012.
As one of the WRCT 
commentators noted, the 
buggies tend to go slower in 
cold weather since it makes 
the roads colder. This did 
not seem to affect the teams 
SDC conquers mens, womens Buggy
Alan Vangpat/Senior Staff Photographer
A Fringe pusher races up the hill with Banyan, driven by ?fth-year architecture major Becky Peterkin.
See BUGGY, A9
ATHLETE PROFILEPeterkin ?nishes ?fth year in Fringe
ABBY SMITH
Staffwriter
Fifth-year architecture 
student Becky Peterkin 
surely knows how to let the 
good times roll. As a buggy 
driver for Fringe for all ?ve 
of her years here at Carnegie 
Mellon, the King George, 
Va. native has gotten to both 
design and drive recordsetting buggies.
Peterkin has devoted 
much of her college career 
to Fringes buggy team, both 
driving and building their 
buggies. Although she hasnt 
participated much this past 
year due to time restraints 
and developing allergies to a 
few raw materials, she was a 
mechanic during her sophomore and junior years. I 
didnt do too much in the way 
of hard machining, but I like 
to think I was helpful as an 
extra person who could put 
on and take off the wheels 
and know how to do somewhat complicated wraps in 
the build process, she said.
Peterkin drove and helped 
build Fringes buggy Bonsai, 
which won second place in 
the buggy design competition 
in 2011. For Peterkin, Bonsai 
was her biggest accomplishment: Im very proud of having a large role in building 
Bonsai and then getting to 
drive her to a record-setting 
freeroll. Bonsai was the ?rst 
buggy to do a sub-50-second 
freeroll.
Becky is most certainly 
one of our best drivers and 
really was a force to be reckoned with when she drove 
Bonsai, said Fringe president 
junior Taryn Monteleone.
Peterkins ability to be an 
active member of a buggy 
team has exceeded all of her 
pre-college expectations. Although she had heard a bit 
about the sport and knew 
that shorter girls usually got 
to drive the buggies, there 
were still many unknowns 
about the tradition. Coming 
to CMU, I knew almost nothing about Buggy. I remember 
being nervous about ?nding 
frat guys I could actually talk 
to about driving. I didnt even 
know that there were independent teams until I was 
recruited onto one, Peterkin said. I just knew it was a 
sport where being short was 
not only helpful, but let you 
get the most fun job.
After she joined the team, 
Peterkin quickly caught the 
bug for buggy, and has been 
heavily involved ever since, 
adopting the daily schedule 
of a hardcore buggy driver.
In the ?rst few weeks of 
the fall, before rolls actually start, Peterkin goes to 
recruitment events, particularly when the Fringe team 
is looking for a new driver, 
which involves a few weeks 
of Thursday night half-price 
visits and other organized 
things to ?nd new Frinjas, 
she said. As for her regular 
weekly schedule, The main 
day-to-day differences are 
of course actual rolls, but 
that does have some impact 
on the rest of the week, she 
said. I usually go to bed FriSee PETERKIN, A8

---------------------------------------------------

04.22.13 Volume 107, Issue 25
Spring Carnival Review
Take a look back through the pages of 
this years Spring Carnival

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Read some comics to pull you through the last 
two weeks of the semester.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three Western movies this 
week at McConomy Auditorium. 
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal 
ART EDITOR Annettte Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Kelsey Scott, screenshot courtesy of Pixar
12
45616
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about postCarnival hangovers and party guests. 
3
...diversions
...this week only
Sweet Jesus!
The concert reading of this original student 
musical has good and bad points. 
3
 Assassins 
The SnS production portrays assasination 
attempts on Presidents of the United States.
4
Comedy Show
Judah Friedlanders performance was a 
resounding success. 
5
Lupe Fiasco 
Lupe Fiasco fully engaged with his fans during 
the Friday night show.  
6
SHOT FOR SHOT
Pittsburgh student filmmakers showcase 
impressive short films. 
7
Booth Review
Check out this review of the best booths from 
this years Spring Carnival. 
8
Photo Spreads
Take a look at special photo spreads on pages 
1015 to view Spring Carnival highlights.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that it snowed during Spring 
Carnival in 1988? 
10
Puzzles
Warm up for exams with these brain-teasers.13
Horoscopes
Get back to your normal routine with these 
predictions in mind.
14
Calendar
Check out this list of events happening on and 
off campus this week. 
15
Downhill Derby
The College of Fine Arts showcases nudity, 
unicorns, and a student dressed as King Kong. 
16

---------------------------------------------------

theater
pillbox 04.22.133
Mixed reviews for Sweet Jesus!
Dietz presents concert reading of original musical
Among Spring Carnivals attractions this year was 
a chance to catch an early glimpse at Sweet Jesus!, 
a new musical with music and lyrics by senior 
music composition major Eric Dietz, in the form of a 
concert reading. The script was written by Carnegie 
Mellon alumna Shannon Deep (BHA 10, HNZ 11) 
and Dietzs score was orchestrated by Matt Aument 
(CFA 10).
Naming a musical Sweet Jesus! might raise a few 
eyebrows, but the title is quickly put in context. 
The play is about a Broadway musical of the same 
name  following in the footsteps of Jesus Christ 
Superstar or Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor 
Dreamcoat  that an eccentric writer is trying 
to get investors interested in by way of a staged 
reading.
A staged reading has the actors read their lines 
aloud, with their scripts in front of them and without 
the choreography they would perform in an actual 
production. The stage directions are narrated, 
usually by the director or writer of the work. Because 
one of these readings forms the backdrop for most of 
the storys action, the performance was essentially a 
staged reading about a staged reading  but with 
full musical accompaniment. This was either fitting 
for the nature of a the show or somewhat confusing, 
depending on whom you ask.
At one point, the actual reader of the stage 
directions described how the fictional reader 
of stage directions read the stage directions. 
Fortunately, junior vocal performance major Nigel 
Rowe imbued the writer Steffen St. Ray with 
clear rapture for the sound of his own voice as 
he described lavishly overwrought scenery and 
sacrilegious interpretations of events; he describes 
Roman soliders coming to take Jesus away wearing 
60s business suits and riding Vespas.
In fact, the entire cast gave performances that did 
not disappoint. Even members of the ensemble 
managed to display more than a little character, at 
least to the eyes of this untrained reviewer. When 
duplicitous lover Tyler (played by junior acting 
major Michael Campayno), who plays Jesus in the 
fictitious show, pulls out a ray gun and zaps the 
rest of the company, one of the ensemble members 
(played by sophomore vocal performance major 
Ethan Crystal) threw down his binder and stormed 
off stage, seemingly going off script on two levels.
However, the main plot, which has little to do with 
the premise of a terrible Jesus musical, is not quite 
as compelling the actors performances. The plot 
winds up as a bit of a flimsy excuse for a set of 
songs that are great for the most part. Its pretty 
clear that the musical serves as a sort of love letter 
to the world of young people struggling to make it 
on Broadway; the last number, New York, couldnt 
have made this any clearer if it required the whole 
cast to don I Heart NY shirts. Theres a clear 
longing for the trials and tribulations experienced by 
the protagonist John (portrayed by senior musical 
theatre major Trevor McQueen).
Despite making several references to Disney  and 
avoiding the endings associated with that name 
 this love letter can feel a bit like a form letter. 
The main plot lacks surprises and the characters all 
develop along expected lines. A lucky (literal) break 
gives the young country boy a shot at success; his 
lover turns out to be a cheating jerk; the roommate 
and his friend from home have the country boys 
back; and he manages to reconcile with his mother, 
who is unable to accept his homosexuality.
Honestly, the most surprising thing is the how little 
attention the women get. Gillian Hassert (CFA 12) 
sings to McQueen while portraying his mother, but 
the song is still male-centric: Its about her devotion 
to her son. The only other exclusively female song 
is When Youre a Hag, which bemoans the 
inability of Johns high school friend Annie (played 
by junior voice major Chloe Holgate) to find a 
straight man interested in dating her. Beyond the 
social issues involved in these choices, theres the 
structural problem of the female characters having 
nothing interesting to do but offer moral support 
for the protagonist despite having a diverse set of 
personalities.
As a final note, the music was well executed and 
fun.
Justin McGown | Online Editor
Justin McGown | Online Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Oh God, oh God, Im so 
hung over. The light is 
blinding, and all the noise 
hurts. I feel like someone 
is trying unscrew my 
skull. What have I done to 
deserve this? WHAT HAS 
GOD WROUGHT!?!? How 
can I lessen this pain?
Thanks,
Ow! Hangover, Gosh, 
Ow, Drinks Torture, 
Hangover Everlasting, 
Please Answer, Imbibing 
Nonetheless
Dear OH GOD THE PAIN,
This is the problem with only 
going out during Carnival. 
You dont build up your 
tolerance enough all year for 
last weeks extravaganza. 
Those of us who go out 
multiple times a week 
are used to that feeling. I 
dont even notice the pain 
anymore; its just the usual 
morning feeling. But for 
those of you who dont want 
to feel awful all day, here are 
some recovery techniques.
First of all, you need to go 
back in time. When youre 
still drunk, drink a lot of 
water. Then, go to bed for 
the next 18 hours. If youve 
woken up the next day and 
still feel awful, your first goal 
should be to drink some 
water. Really, water and pain 
medication are your only 
options. My father always 
recommended the three 
Ss: showering, shaving, 
and going to the bathroom. 
If that doesnt do it for you 
then I dont know what will.
Or just have another 
drink,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Im throwing a party this 
weekend, my friends dad 
is in town, and I hear hes 
really cool. Should I invite 
him? I feel like it could 
only make things better. 
What could go wrong with 
inviting a 50-year-old guy 
to my party?
Thanks,
Forget This, I Gotta Go To 
My Last Carnival Party
Dear FTIGGTMLCP,
Thats a great idea! Partying 
with the previous generation 
is always a good time. If they 
want to go out to bars, they 
have jobs and are always 
willing to pick up the tab. 
If its a house party, then 
hes willing to go to a house 
party. Im barely willing to go 
to house parties! If you can 
take a shot of bottom-shelf 
vodka with the man, then 
hes the kind of man I want 
to be when I grow up.
The one problem with 
inviting him is if he has too 
much game. Obviously, 
when he shows up hes 
gonna get a lot of attention, 
cause hes got 30 years 
on the other guests. After 
that, he can just play up the 
charm. He has 30 years 
worth more stories than you, 
and 30 years worth more 
experience with women. You 
cant compete with him. A 
full head of hair will only get 
you so far.
Plus, there are a lot of 
college-age gold diggers,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About hangovers and party guests
The ensemble of Sweet Jesus! sings a number.

---------------------------------------------------

4theater
pillbox 04.22.13
Do you sometimes feel low? Unsatis?ed? Lost? Like 
youre just another nobody, stranded, alone in the 
universe? Then just pick up a gun and shoot the 
President! Thats the advice given by both failed and 
successful presidential killers that make up the cast 
of characters in ScotchnSodas 75th anniversary 
production of Stephen Sondheim and John Weidmans 
Assassins, which was presented throughout last weeks 
Spring Carnival in Rangos Hall.
The musical follows a rogues gallery of American 
assassins, including John Wilkes Booth (who killed 
Abraham Lincoln), Leon Czolgosz (William McKinleys 
killer), and Charles Guiteau (who killed James Gar?eld), 
as they debate, hatch, and execute their plans to 
kill the President of the United States  sometimes 
successfully, sometimes not so much.
Assassins is comprised of numerous and somewhat 
independent stories, each involving one of the assassins 
trying to solve his or her problems by killing the 
most important man in America. These characters 
hang around a carnival-style shooting game run by 
the encouraging Proprietor, played by sophomore 
vocal performance major Kevin OHora. Each story is 
accompanied by a song sung directly to the audience 
by the Balladeer, played by junior mathematics major 
William Veer. The songs provided the reasons for each 
assassins crime and challenged them at the same time.
The stories range in energy and tone from incredibly 
funny and active to more somber and downbeat. 
Watching junior communication design major Larissa 
Jantonios Lynette Squeaky Fromme and sophomore 
vocal performance major Joanna Latinis Sara Jane 
Moore bumble through their attempted assassination of 
President Gerald Ford kept the audience in stitches.
Jantonio perfectly captured the kind of manic intensity 
one would expect from a member of the infamous 
murderers of the Manson family. Her frequent explosions 
of love and admiration for her crazed leader Charles 
Manson were so over the top, yet sincere, you didnt 
know whether to laugh or shift uncomfortably in your 
seat.
Latini perfectly complemented Jantonios focused energy 
with her portrayal of an average housewife who just 
cant get the whole assassination thing down; one scene 
involving her inability to shoot her gun was particularly 
memorable. Her performance was fully committed and 
hilarious, allowing every one of their scenes to play 
extraordinarily well.
On the ?ip side, junior vocal performance major James 
Alexanders Leon Czolgosz is haunted by the gruesome 
sights he witnesses at his job in a turn-of-the-century 
factory. Czolgosz debates whether or not he is capable 
of killing President McKinley so that he can put an 
end to the injustice perpetrated against the common 
worker. Many of Czolgoszs scenes involved a darkened 
stage with him in the spotlight, which highlighted the 
alienation he feels as just another cog in the machine.
While Assassins is a good musical, its lack of focus 
makes its message feel a little bit muddled. The script 
attempts to make grand statements about the death 
of the American dream and identi?es the idea as the 
driving force behind each characters actions, but it 
instead comes across as a discontinuous jumble of ideas.
Assassins is at its most engaging, however, when 
it delves into the more personal reasons for the 
assassinations. Sophomore vocal performance major 
Taylor Rawleys John Hinckley is deeply in love with 
Jodie Foster and feels that by making a grand statement 
 attempting to kill President Ronald Reagan  he 
will win her love. While this dream is obviously crazy, 
Rawleys performance almost made you want it to come 
true, and Hinckleys failure was near heartbreaking.
This desire to matter to someone  anyone  was 
shared by many of the other assassins, notably Fromme. 
Fromme sings a song with Hinckley in which they 
express feeling unworthy of anothers love (in her case, 
the love of Charles Manson). When you get to the 
heart of each characters story, theyre all pretty much 
about a desire to be important, and the moments that 
demonstrate that wish are where Assassins really hits 
home.
Even though it has been in production and planning for 
months, given the recent events in Boston, Assassins 
felt incredibly relevant. The musical makes note that, at 
the end of the day, the killing of each of these Presidents 
did nothing to ?x the ills the assassins saw in America. 
While it is a bit clich to say that violence is never the 
answer, the sentiment is nonetheless true.
Whether it be the murder of innocent civilians or a 
dramatic assassination of a global leader, killing any 
member of a society cant ?x that societys faults. The 
images on every television screen of the chaos and 
violence in Boston must have been in the back of many 
audience members minds while watching Assassins; 
they de?nitely were in mine. This timeliness made the 
musical much more powerful than it would have if it had 
been performed just a week earlier.
Joey Peiser | Junior Staffwriter
Editors note: Taylor Rawley is a copy editor for The 
Tartan.
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Members of the cast gather around Giuseppe 
Zangara, played by sophomore vocal performance 
major John Teresi, whose assassination attempt on 
President-elect Franklin D. Roosevelt was motivated 
by stomach pains.
ScotchnSoda presents killer production
Assassins, an SnS 75th anniversary production, preaches senselessness of violence 

---------------------------------------------------

comedy
pillbox 04.22.135
Friedlander sports black-belt comedic skills
30 Rock comedian and World Champion discusses presidential platform, karate book
The weather was warm, everyone was happy, and laughs 
were ?owing freely last Thursday during Comedy 
Central on Campus, a show presented by AB Comedy.
The cast of the show was the true de?nition of triple 
threat: Judah Friedlander, Nick Vatterott, and Jermaine 
Fowler. They performed for a crowd under the standingroom-only white tent on Midway.
Fowler is a familiar face to those who frequent the 
comedy website CollegeHumor. Fowler opened the 
show with a short, 20-minute bit. His routine was not 
as impressive or as polished as those of the other two; it 
seemed to be just vaguely strung together.
While that strategy worked later for Friedlander, who 
went from one one-liner to the next during the ?rst 
part of his performance, Fowler couldnt pull it off. 
Admittedly, hes younger and less experienced, but it 
seemed as if he were trying a style of performance that 
he wasnt used to. He left the stage after a ?ve-minute 
blast of jokes that was energetic but random and handed 
the show over to Vatterott.
Vatterotts work up to this point has primarily included 
writing gigs and making guest appearances on Conan, 
Late Night with Jimmy Fallon, and the Comedy Central 
show Mash Up. Vatterotts routine was perhaps the most 
entertaining; it was well timed, quick witted, and right 
on par with the crowds appetite for comedy.
Fowler then returned to the stage to introduce 
Friedlander. The headliner of the show, Friedlander is 
perhaps the best known of the three due to his role on 
the popular NBC comedy show 30 Rock, which just 
ended in January. His character on the show, Frank 
Rossitano, is very similar to the one that he portrays 
during his stand-up comedy routines: a sloppy, hatobsessed deadpan humorist who exaggerates stories 
about himself.
Friedlanders routine centered on the premise that as 
World Champion, he was going to run for President of 
the United States. He walked the audience through a 
hilarious rundown of his platform, and then invited the 
audience to ask questions.
Friedlanders quick and witty responses to the questions 
demonstrated his amazing ability to think on his feet 
and work with the crowd. Even as the audience threw 
curveballs such as questions about Tina Fey, Iraq, and 
 perhaps most eloquent moment of the evening  his 
genitals, Friedlander stayed one step ahead and kept the 
audience laughing at the outlandishness of his largerthan-life character. His quirky, weird sense of humor was 
so absurd that there was nothing to do but enjoy the 
ride.
The comedian took the majority of the time to discuss 
his simpli?ed plans for taking over the world, which 
involved moving the Midwest to north of Canada, using 
karate skills to intimidate Americas enemies, and 
legalizing heroin to make legalizing marijuana easier. 
He advertised his nonexistent karate instruction book, 
which, according to his performance, solves just about 
any problem and makes anyone physically stronger.
Friedlander not only invited questions and responded 
to them, but also picked people out of the audience 
and adapted the routine to the personalities of his 
listeners. He invited photographers up on stage, 
questioned boys about the girls that they were sitting 
next to, and made fun of the majors that people called 
out.
All three of the performers personalized the show for 
Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon, citing the campus food, 
hipster environments, and robotics department. The 
audience was receptive and excited, which seemed to 
make the show all the more fun.
When it comes down to it, you know a show is funny 
when a comedian is laughing at it, and thats exactly 
what happened. As Vatterott and Friedlander performed, 
Fowler stood on the side with a bottle of water and 
enjoyed the show with everyone else. His signature 
cackle at his fellow comedians best jokes was possibly 
the highlight of the show. The show was as great as 
the weather that night and was a great start to Carnival 
2013.
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Headliner and 30 Rock star Judah Friedlander 
showered audience members with his eccentric 
sense of humor and customized his show to appeal to 
Carnegie Mellon students.
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Nick Vatterott gave a fast-paced and witty 
performance prior to headliner Judah 
Friedlanders comedy show.

---------------------------------------------------

6music
pillbox 04.22.13
A line of people wound all the way to the parking garage 
last Friday evening at 7 p.m. for an 8 p.m. concert in 
Wiegand Gymnasium. If it were any other artist, the 
anticipation would probably not be nearly as intense, 
with people literally ?ghting to get into the gymnasium. 
The chanting from the crowd ensured that the entire 
Carnegie Mellon campus was aware that Lupe Fiasco 
was in Pittsburgh to perform at Carnegie Mellons Spring 
Carnival.
The concert was a success in terms of the anticipation 
before, excitement during, and craze after the event. 
In terms of organization, however, the event was a bit 
chaotic. According to AB Concerts co-chair Rebecca 
Paren, 2,000 tickets were released, but only 1,500 people 
were allowed in, which meant that some people with 
reserved tickets were denied admission to the concert. 
This was especially troubling because there seemed to 
be extra space in the back of the gym that could have 
allowed more people with tickets to attend the concert.
Perhaps everything would have run more smoothly had 
the show been held outdoors as originally planned. The 
weather ended up staying dry on Friday evening, though 
AB Concerts had decided to move the concert inside 
earlier in the week.
Though the concert began at 8 p.m., two DJs opened 
for Lupe and the audience grew very anxious for the 
headliners appearance. Every ?ve minutes, there would 
be a literal Kick Push as people shoved toward the 
stage. Many students were also trying to cut the line in 
order to get to the front, causing even more of a frenzy. 
The beginning of the concert can only be characterized 
as out of control.
Surprisingly, Lupe Fiascos appearance calmed the 
crowd rather than sending them into a frenzy. Once his 
?rst song began, the audiences hands went into the 
air, and Lupe sang and rapped for 10 minutes without 
a break. The singers passion was evident through his 
every move and his lyrics. Lupe might be a man of 
relatively few words, but he sang so closely to students, 
making eye contact and almost touching the audience, 
that he was de?nitely fully engaged with his fans. He 
even splashed water at the audience, further exciting 
the crowd.
Without any intermission or even a breather, the 
concert continued until around 10 p.m. Unlike the 
beginning, when everyone was ?ghting to be at the 
front, the second half saw people at the front begin 
trying to move back to get a breather, allowing audience 
members at the back of the gym to move up. Although 
it was unintentional, everyone had a fair chance to be 
near the performer they had been waiting to see, and 
Daydreamin  of, after all.
Finally, an encore of The Show Goes On  Lupes 
most popular and best-known song  served as the 
conclusion to the exciting evening. Everyone slowly left 
the University Center, singing the songs from the show. 
Logistical issues aside, the concert was an enjoyable 
event by a passionate artist, and will serve as one of the 
highlights of Carnival 2013.
Amy Tsien | Junior Staffwriter
Lupe Fiasco presents high-energy concert
Despite overenthusiastic crowd, this years Carnival concert is enjoyable and memorable
Andrew Viny | Junior Photographer
Lupe Fiasco was an energetic performer, tossing his hair and making eye contact with students as he sang.
Kelsey Scott | Operations Manager
Andrew Viny | Junior Photographer
The enthusiasm and frequent aggression of the crowd were among the most memorable aspects of the concert.

---------------------------------------------------

film
pillbox 04.22.137
McConomy Auditorium saw an in?ux of ?lm lovers, 
friends of ?lmmakers, and casual observers on Saturday 
night as part of the SHOT FOR SHOT Student Film 
Festival. Like the Carnegie Mellon International Film 
Festival, which ended two weekends ago, this ?lm 
festival is yet another effort to draw the campus 
attention to the world of ?lmmaking.
But this year, the festival organizers decided to try 
something different. This year was the ?rst time that 
the Carnegie Mellon Film Club opened the festival to 
submissions from across Pittsburgh. Films came from six 
schools in total, and the screened ?lms included work 
by students at Carnegie Mellon, Point Park University, 
and the University of Pittsburgh  often in collaboration 
with students at other schools.
The result was a rich and impressive display of 
Pittsburgh student ?lmmaking talent  a sparkling 
achievement of a ?lm festival. As Carnegie Mellon Film 
Club co-president and senior directing major Stephen 
Tonti said in his introduction to the festival, We 
really are promoting intercollegiate ?lmmaking. And 
according to Tonti, the quality of the submissions goes 
to show how much artistic creativity is actually in this 
city.
The ?lms were fantastic and surprisingly high in quality, 
considering that they were put together by students. 
Most of the ?lms were 1013 minutes in length, although 
there were a few twoor three-minute ?lms that were 
almost too short to process.
The festival opened with a fabulously amusing piece 
called The Big Fold by Bailey Donovan of Point Park 
University, which follows a young boy whose mother 
charges him with breaking his fathers poker trophy. 
We watched as the boy assumed the identity of his 
favorite crime-movie detective on a quest to prove his 
own innocence. The ?lm simultaneously pokes fun at 
the drama and serious dialogue of old black-and-white 
movies and at the childish fantasies we all have about 
our favorite heroes.
Other highlights included Hotel Romance by Corey 
Sweazen of Point Park University, which uses a clean 
aesthetic and surreal special effects to tell the story of 
a bizarre relationship between a man and a woman, 
the entirety of which takes place in a hotel. In a very 
different approach, Dominic Rodriguezs non?ction 
Fursonas explores the unusual lifestyle of fursuiters 
 people who dress up in fur suits  through 
documentary-style interviews. And in typical comingof-age fashion, The Perils of Growing Up Flat-Chested 
by Carnegie Mellon alumna Yulin Kuang (DC 12) follows 
a girl with body image issues who is determined to 
impress her science-project partner and crush.
Another audience favorite was Fade by Josh Lopata 
of Point Park University, an intricate and beautiful 
animation ?lm that explored the struggle of a young 
boy to cope with his fathers death. The rich animation 
 accomplished through puppetry and miniature 
set construction  took between one-and-a-half 
and two years of work, and the result proved to be 
spectacular. The ?lm represents death metaphorically 
as a threatening, black, shapeless monster that the boy 
literally grapples with throughout the movie. The ?nal 
scene  in which the monster ?nally takes the boys dad 
 sent a hushed sadness over the crowd that only lifted 
when the audience clapped wildly during the ending 
credits.
When the judges took the stage after the screening, each 
emphasized how genuinely dif?cult the decision was to 
pick only two winners among the ?lms. It was easy to 
see why: The ?lms were vastly diverse in their subject 
matter, aesthetic, and general approaches, and many 
of them were equally excellent in very different ways. 
Ultimately, The Big Fold won the Grand Jury Prize, while 
The Perils of Growing Up Flat-Chested won the Special 
Jury Prize. Meanwhile, Fade took the Audience Award, 
which was determined by audience members who 
passed up paper ballots marking their favorite ?lm of the 
evening.
The festival bene?ted greatly from welcoming 
submissions from schools all across Pittsburgh, 
and the result was a truly inspiring display of the 
excellence of Pittsburgh intercollegiate ?lmmaking. 
As Carnegie Mellon Film Club co-president and senior 
business administration major Nicolas Hurt said in his 
introduction to the festival, This year, we wanted to do 
something much bigger. They certainly pulled it off.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Student festival promotes intercollegiate ?lm
SHOT FOR SHOT welcomed submissions from wide pool of Pittsburgh student ?lmmakers
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
AB Films begins its sojourn into the legacy of 
Spaghetti Westerns with Django, Sergio Corbuccis 
iconic tale. Its unfortunate that we will only think 
of this as the predecessor to Quentin Tarantinos 
newest joint, because there is a lot to love here 
and it really should be required viewing for fans of 
Tarantinos rehash. This is a ?lm that spawned more 
sequels than pretty much anything else and refuses 
to be tamed. If you want to know why Tarantino 
seems as clever as he does, dont miss this.
Django
Thursday, April 25
7:30 9
The Good, the Bad, and the Ugly
Saturday, April 27
7
The ultimate Spaghetti Western and Tarantinos 
vote for greatest ?lm of all time. Sergio Leone 
masterfully pits three men against each other in an 
epic of radical proportions. There was nothing that 
could have prepared the world for this eruption in 
1966. Its the role that de?ned Clint Eastwood. Its 
the music that de?ned a genre. Its the style that 
in?uenced a generation. The Good, the Bad, and 
the Ugly is not for the faint of heart, but it rewards 
any who dare to master it  a totally unique and 
visionary spin on the Western genre that has yet 
to be outdone.
Django Unchained
Friday, April 26
7 10 1
The newest joint from our favorite wise guy auteur. 
Quentin Tarantino mashes his two greatest obsessions 
together  Westerns and exploitation ?icks  to create 
this very complicated Frankenstein of a ?lm. Django is 
codi?ed as an exploitation ?ick, but functions as a type 
of revenge, a theme we have seen Tarantino explore 
before. Every corpse is ?lled with two or three times the 
normal amount of blood, and style is the substance. 
Leonardo DiCaprio and Christoph Waltz, perhaps the 
greatest speakers of Tarantenese to ever walk this 
Earth, perform valiantly in a picture that ultimately fails 
to become the kind of arresting moral behemoth that 
Inglourious Basterds was in 2010.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

booth
pillbox 04.22.1398booth
pillbox 04.22.13
Throughout Carnival, as a self-designated, one-person 
committee, I went through every booth and selected 
the winners of several categories in what I call the 
Boothy Awards. This years booths, following the 
theme of Fractured Fairytales, again demonstrated 
the passion and dedication of Carnegie Mellon 
students. Without further ado, here is the ?rst edition of 
the Boothies.
The Hipster Boothy for Best Design
Kappa Alpha Thetas Enchanted Garden wins 
best design  a result of its grand and successful 
ambitions. While the enlarged ?owers and dandelion 
puffs hanging on the evergreen exterior may have 
seemed over the top, they were consistent with the 
Thumbelina-inspired theme.
Inside, tour guides explained how the exaggerated 
sizes were the result of a spell that shrunk ones body 
to the size of a thumb. If the outside showed that these 
women could think big, the interior displayed their 
ability to go small. A quaint lily pond was just one of 
many beautiful details in this enchanted forest. Papiermch trees and magical stalactites also made this 
booth feel larger than life.
The Pong Boothy for Best Game
This Boothy goes to KGBs Funkelstiltskin. In this 
booths game, one dropped plastic golf balls into holes 
that activated different notes of the Smoke on the 
Water theme. The simple goal was to recreate the 
tune. But this was harder than it sounds. KGB wins this 
Boothy for a game that was moderately dif?cult and 
also displayed technological prowess.
The Andy Warhol Boothy for Best Art
The Asian Students Association (ASA) always manages 
to impress during Carnival, and this year was no 
exception.
If Pixar chooses to go old school and hand-draw the 
animations for the Finding Nemo sequel, it would be wise 
to draw inspiration from ASA. The incredibly detailed 
paintings of the Finding Nemo and Little Mermaid 
characters in the booth seemed to have been taken 
straight from the big screen, and the papier-mch 
creations of seagulls proved that ASA is no one-trick pony.
The Andrew Mellon Boothy for Most Underrated 
Booth
Making a booth isnt easy, especially for organizations 
that lack the ?nancial resources and manpower of 
big fraternities and sororities. However, bigger is not 
necessarily better, as was made evident by SPIRITs 
Pinocchio Story.
This booth consisted of one room whose main feature 
was a comic strip that stretched across three walls. But 
it was a special comic  one that combined the stories 
of Pinocchio, Alice in Wonderland, and Toy Story. It was a 
delightful story that I didnt have to wait on a line for.
KGB also deserves some recognition here. Half record 
store and half neon nightclub, its one-story booth 
combined the tale of Rumpelstiltskin with funk music. 
Though not all of the references were clear, KGBs booth 
was very solid in terms of artwork and design.
The Judah Friedlander Boothy for Funniest Booth
Humpty Dumpty sat on a wall. Humpy Dumpty had a 
great fall and was rushed to the ICU.
Alpha Epsilon Pis Humpty Dumpty Hospital tells 
the part of the tale not included in the nursery rhyme. 
Although nobody could put Humpty together again, the 
men of Alpha Epsilon Pi reminded us that Humpty ?rst 
had to be saved in a game of Operation.
The Andrew Carnegie Boothy for Best Overall Booth
From the Midway entrance next to The Underground, 
Thetas Enchanted Garden booth immediately set the 
standard for the rest of the booths. As tall as it was, the 
detail of the exterior was even more impressive. However, 
the best booth, in my opinion, was 20 yards away, where 
a cluster of colorful balloons ?oated above Sigma Phi 
Epsilons booth based on Pixars Up.
After visitors were greeted by a papIer-mch caricature 
of the grumpy main character Carl, the inside of SigUp 
was truly delightful. On the ?rst ?oor, the wooden ?oor 
tiling and simple wallpaper brought the details of the 
Pixar movie to life.
Spring Carnival booths impress and entertain in a wide variety of categories
Fractured Fairytales theme produces diversity of original, funny, well-designed booths that interpret classic tales like Thumbelina and recent ?lms like Pixars Finding Nemo
Although this senior citizens home seemed very 
harmless, his journey was anything but. The interactive 
game inside the booth, in which the user steers through 
tumultuous clouds, serves as a reminder of the dif?cult 
journey his house went through.
The journey of the booth continues to the second ?oor, 
but not before a reconception of the movies waterfall 
scene next to the stairs. The top ?oor recreates the 
jungle setting of the ?lm with real plants and dense 
foliage. This ?oor even features Kevin, the ?amingo-like 
creature from the movie.
Though Kappa Alpha Thetas was a close second, 
Sigma Phi Epsilon wins for its ?ne details and faithful 
representation of the beloved Pixar movie.
Conclusion
With that, we bring an end to this years Boothies. 
While it was a great year, not all booths made the cut  
although this is not a re?ection of their quality.
For people not involved in building booths, it is very easy 
to walk through a booth and see nothing special. But the 
fact is that these booths are made by full-time Carnegie 
Mellon students  students who want nothing more 
than to display their love for Spring Carnival.
William Park | Assistant Forum Editor
Top: Kappa Alpha Thetas Thumbelina-themed 
Enchanted Garden won second place in the official 
sorority booth category. Right: The Asian Students 
Association presented a well-designed booth based 
on Pixars Finding Nemo and The Little Mermaid.
                  Greg Hanneman | Senior Staff Photographer
Sigma Phi Epsilons SigUp, which won first place in the fraternity booth category, was based on Pixars Up and 
featured a cluster of balloons tethered to the roof.
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Fraternity
1.) Sigma Phi Epsilon
2.) Alpha Epsilon Pi
3.) Delta Upsilon
Sorority
1.) Delta Gamma
2.) Kappa Alpha Theta
3.) Kappa Kappa Gamma
Independent
1.) ASA
2.) KGB
3.) TSA
Blitz
1.) Mayur
2.) Fringe
3.) Alpha Kappa Psi
T-shirt Design
TSA
Chairmans Choice
Alpha Phi
Environmental
Delta Gamma
Mudge
Of?cial Awards Ceremony Results

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.22.131110carnival
pillbox 04.22.13
Top Left: Alpha Epsilon Pis Humpty Dumpty 
Hospital was a clever take on the classic tale. Top 
Right: Visitors to Midway browsed the different 
booths on display. Above: Students waiting to enter 
Sigma Phi Epsilons SigUp greeted a papier-mch 
likeness of Carl, the grouchy main character in Pixars 
Up. Right: Carnegie Mellon President Jared Cohon, 
Dean of Student Affairs Gina Casalegno, and Carnival 
Committee booth head and senior computer science 
major Kelly Harrington officially opened Midway on 
Thursday afternoon.
                  Kate Groschner | Photo EditorAlan Vangpat | Senior Staff Photographer
Top Left: Junior art major Max Perim pulls Justin Lin (junior 
art major) in the School of Arts Downhill Derby. Top Right: 
Members of the Pipe Band kicked off Carnival Weekend 
by parading around Midway on Thursday afternoon. Above 
Right: First-year mechanical engineering major Alp Erbug 
pushes Sigma Phi Epsilons buggy, named Barracuda, up the 
third hill. Left: SDC pushers switch off between hills.
Alan Vangpat | Senior Staff Photographer
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo EditorGreg Hanneman | Senior Staff Photographer                   Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.22.131312carnival
pillbox 04.22.13
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

carnival
pillbox 04.22.131514carnival
pillbox 04.22.13
Top Left: Joanna Latini (sophomore vocal performance major) played Sara Jane Moore in 
ScotchnSodas production of Assassins. In the show, 
Moore tries and fails to assassinate President Gerald 
Ford (played by fourth-year architecture major Brad 
Sherburne). Top Right: John Wilkes Booth (played 
by junior vocal performance major Logan Newman) 
argues with one of his conspirators (played by junior 
physics major Alex Dunne) in Assassins. Above Left: 
Newman is shown with sophomore vocal performance major Kevin OHora, who played the Proprietor 
in Assassins. Right: The ensemble is shown singing 
How I Saved Roosevelt in Assassins.
                  Kate Groschner | Photo EditorJonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor
Top Left: Sophomore vocal performance major Ethan Crystal sings a solo with all-male a 
cappella group The Originals in Saturdays concert at the Midway tent. Top Right: A group 
of Carnegie Mellon students posed before Holi, a celebration of the Hindu holiday that 
took place on Flagstaff Hill on Saturday. Above Right: The same group of students poses 
again, this time after throwing colored powder at each other in celebration of Holi. Left: 
The Kiltie Band performed in a concert in the Midway tent on Thursday.
Haley Bryant | Junior Photographer
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Jos Lopez | Staff Photographer
Haley Bryant | Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 04.22.131716art
pillbox 04.22.13
Derbies do not usually include nude people, unicorns, 
and King Kong. But that is because most derbies are not 
presented by the School of Art.
The fourth annual Anti-Gravity Downhill Derby was held 
on Thursday on the treacherous incline between Doherty 
Hall and the University Center. The derby is advertised 
as an alternative to the buggy races, as well as the 
slowest race this side of the Mississippi.
This description is somewhat misleading: The derby is 
not a race as much as it is a fashion show and parade 
slapped together in less than a week for the fun of it. In 
fact, many of the buggies did not end up working as 
expected, and some outright broke down.
Still, there were a number of funny and original carts that 
travelled down the Doherty incline, including Napoleon 
with a cannon that ?red smoke, a pair of Swedish chefs, 
Aladdin and Jasmine rolling in a carpet, Wall Street 
investors on skateboards throwing money around, 
Miracle Whip ?ghting mayonnaise, a boy scout and his 
model airplane, a royal lion, and one person in a worm 
costume trying to slowly crawl down the incline.
Some of the carts were particularly impressive  in 
particular, one of a man in a King Kong costume raging 
on top of the Empire State Building, which had another 
man in a pilot costume riding a moving airplane at the 
front. 
There were also a number of carts that were sea themed, 
including people dressed up as mermaids spitting 
water, a ?sh tank, a shark/penguin man, and Venus in 
a seashell in a representation of Botticellis The Birth 
of Venus. Plenty of food-themed carts, such as Oreocookies-and-milk and pop-tart themes, also made 
appearances. In one cart, four women sprayed a man 
with mustard and ketchup, and the words make me a 
sandwich were written on the cart.
There were also carts that seemed completely random, 
featuring eccentric details such as unicorns, a dancing 
lampshade, the tooth fairy, peanut allergies, and a baby 
stroller with streamers.
One cannot mention the Downhill Derby without 
mentioning the nudity. There were a number of carts 
that were downright provocative with nudity or explicit 
themes, including a human hamster wheel powered 
by clothing-phobic men, a gondola featuring the Pope 
caught with her pants down, and a man dressed as 
male genitalia in a hand. This might have led to some 
awkward moments for students who went to the derby 
with their families.
Although the derby may have been uncomfortable for 
Downhill Derby sends eccentric ?oats, scantily clad students down Doherty incline
The fourth annual Anti-Gravity Downhill Derby offered a ludicrous alternative to Buggy, featuring students dressed as unicorns, King Kong, mermaids, Swedish chefs, and the Pope
Above: A student crawls down the incline in a worm 
costume. Right: Two students, one dressed as 
Napoleon, wield a cannon that spewed smoke.
                  Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor
some people, the main ?aw of the show was not its 
subject matter but its pacing. While it was expected 
that some of the carts would break down, it was 
nonetheless irritating to stand around for ?ve minutes 
or so waiting for a cart to work again. Some carts went 
by relatively quickly, but others took a great deal of time 
coming down the hill, mainly due to technical issues. 
There could have been some interesting commentary 
or something else to look at while the carts were being 
?xed.
Overall, the derby was entertaining, but not without 
?aws in its execution. It was a fun, wild start to Carnival 
that will de?nitely keep the campus talking for a few 
days.
Xiyu Wang | Staffwriter
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor
Right: Two Swedish chefs tossed Swedish fish at the 
crowd. Below left: Three students dressed as unicorns 
in heels escort a princess down the incline. 
Below right: Senior art major Emily Wobb presents a 
wittily literal representation of a carpool.
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

18carnival
pillbox 04.22.13
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Carnival through the years
50years ago
May 8, 1963
The 1963 Carnival theme Phenomenal Phliques included a firstplace booth by Beta Theta Pi based on Peter Pan, a faculty egg 
toss, sorority relays, and plank jousting behind the Morewood 
parking lot. Captain Beta Hook walked the plank into a tub 
of water when game players threw plastic knives through port 
holes on the side of the ship, which was surrounded by moving 
water. The Chemistry A team won the egg toss with a 150-foot 
toss across the Cut. Kappa Alpha Theta won both the sorority 
relays and the sorority skit competition. The relays included 
sorority women participating in a broom-riding relay, role race, 
and sack relay.
25years ago
Apr. 19, 1988
The first snowy Carnival in recent memory resulted in issues 
with switching from temporary power to permanent power on 
Wednesday night, buggy race delays, and shivering audience 
members in the comedians tent. Edward Jackman, the 
headlining comedian, put on a stand-up comedy performance 
with juggling tricks. Jackman also shared with the audience 
that he will be hosting a new NBC series featuring normal 
people who can do funny things. After the comedy show, 
Jackman and his camera crew went around Midway looking for 
funny people to interview for the first episode of the show.
10years ago
Apr. 14, 2003
The Saturday morning Buggy races were plagued with 
unexpected mechanical mishaps and human error. The Pi 
Kappa Alpha womens team was granted a reroll after their 
buggy was forced to swerve to avoid colliding with the lead 
truck in the race. The Beta Theta Pi women were disqualified 
after rolling the fastest time of the day because their buggy 
failed the drop test for brakes. The Sigma Alpha Epsilon men hit 
a pothole and lost a wheel during their roll. Several fans, many 
of whom were underage, were issued citations for possession of 
alcohol in the area adjacent to the buggy track.
5years ago
Apr. 21, 2008
As the Democratic primary for the 2008 presidential election 
approached, Chelsea Clinton made an appearance on Midway 
to support her mother Hillary Clinton (D-N.Y.). Clintons visit to 
Carnegie Mellon is the first stop on a tour of college campuses 
across the nation in which she moderates a Q & A session 
with college students. Aside from the political buzz, Booth is 
plagued with numerous injuries because of strong winds on 
Midway. One sister of Delta Gamma had to get four staples in 
her head after a wall fell on her while members were finishing 
up assembly of their booth on Saturday night.
1year ago
Apr. 23, 2012
The College of Fine Arts hosts its third annual Anti-Gravity 
Downhill Derby, which began as a class project in 2010 and 
has since grown in participation from CFA students. The derby 
pokes fun at Carnivals stress on buggy, and features often 
scantily-clad students dressed as moving art. The weekend also 
included a performance by Passion Pit and ScotchnSodas 
rendition of The Drowsy Chaperone. Both shows excited 
audiences, especially when Passion Pits performers expressed 
fond feelings for Carnegie Mellons campus and students. The 
entire audience is even invited to the next Passion Pit concert in 
Pittsburgh.
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
File photo by Jonathan Carreon
File photo
File photo
File photo
File photo

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 04.22.1319
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.com
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Faramand
poorlydrawnlines.com
wronghands1@gmail.com
Wrong Hands by John Atkinson
wronghands1.wordpress.com

---------------------------------------------------

20comics
pillbox 04.22.13
kathrynmoira@gmail.com
Hark, A Vagrant by Kate Beaton
harkavagrant.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 04.22.1321
Solutions from Apr. 15
CrosswordMedium DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Medium Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue at its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

22horoscopes
pillbox 04.22.13
1. Broadway beginning
2. Injure
3. Break, card game
4. Clerisy
5. Discharges
6. Keyed up
7. Yours, in Tours
8. Edible corm
9. Comfortable
10. Gentle ones
11. Seed cover
12. Spouse
13. CIA forerunner
21. Fame
22. Where Hercules slew the lion
25. Sleep issue
26. ___ Janeiro
27. Go into
28. Student tables
29. Commedia dell___
30. Eastern
31. Bottled spirit
32. Tidal bore
34. Type of guard
35. Congenitally attached
37. Trio
38. Currently
43. The continent
44. Nissan model
45. Weeps
46. ___ is human
47. Central part
48. Olive genus
49. Room in a casa
50. Scheme
51. Good one!
52. Quarter, e.g.
53. Winds up
54. Agt.s take
1. Sighs of relief
4. Sic on
9. San Antonio landmark
14. Tin
15. ___ Kick Out of You
16. Gogols ___ Bulba
17. Lilt syllable
18. Male voice
19. Gives off
20. Nave or gullible
23. Romain de Tirtoff, familiarly
24. Curvy letter
25. Places of contest
28. Matron
30. Period of human life
33. Burgundy grape
34. Shrivelled, without moisture
35. On the ocean
36. In spite of
39. Utopia
40. Scouting outing
41. Broadcasting
42. ___ Lingus
43. Sea birds
44. River of song
45. White ball, in pool
46. Milk source
47. Letters
54. Salks conquest
55. Prince Valiants wife
56. Electrically charged particle
57. Crawl
58. Motor truck
59. Hestons hero, with Loren: El 
___
60. Mock, annoy
61. Gillette razors
62. Printing widths
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
The remaining weeks of the semester are going to be quite 
a ride  so hold on! 
taurus
april 20may 20
Forget about me, myself, and I and focus on others.
gemini
may 21june 21
Just relax and prepare for summer. Finals will be a breeze.
cancer
june 22july 22
Try to keep a level head this week because a lot will happen 
and youll be tempted to overreact.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Dont get too invested in projects that you take up; beware 
of wrong decisions.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Youre going to be in a peaceful mood all week. Embrace it.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Dont be in a hurry to take things out of your pants  
wallets or otherwise.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Youll have to come out of your usual shell this week, so be 
ready for that.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Its spring and bird flu is making a comeback. You have 
been warned.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Now is the time to aim high because chances are, itll 
happen.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Try to avoid fights with those close to you.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
You are being watched; be careful about what you say or 
write.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 04.22.1323
MONDAY4.22.13
Rocking the Body Politics: Musical Spaces for 
Resistance & Survival. Giant Eagle Auditorium 
(Baker Hall A51). 4:30 p.m.
Larisa K. Mann, an educator, public speaker, and awardwinning DJ, will present a talk. The event is sponsored by 
the Center for the Arts and Society.
Henry Hornbostel Lecture: Peter Busby. 
Carnegie Museum of Art Theater. 6 p.m.
Peter Busby, principal managing director of San Francisco 
design and architecture ?rm Perkins+Will, will give a talk 
at the Carnegie Museum of Art Theater. The event is free.
TUESDAY4.23.13
Kvelertak. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 7:30 p.m.
Hardcore black metal band Kvelertak will perform at 
Mr. Smalls Theatre with Cancer Bats, Black Tusk, and 
Girl?ght. More information and tickets are available at 
mrsmalls.com.
WEDNESDAY4.24.13
Carnegie Mellon Guitar Ensemble. Mellon Institute 
Auditorium. 8 p.m.
The Carnegie Mellon Guitar Ensemble will perform works 
by composers Matteo Carcassi, Jrg Kindle, Joaqun 
Rodrigo, Leo Welch, Leo Brouwer, and more during 
Wednesdays concert. The event is free.
THURSDAY4.25.13
Masters of Doom: How Two Guys Created an 
Empire and Transformed Pop Culture. 
Porter Hall 100. 4:30 p.m.
Journalist and author David Kushner will give a talk, telling 
the story of video game innovators John Carmack and 
John Romero. The talk is hosted by the Center for the 
Arts in Society and is free.
FRIDAY4.26.13
Gallery Crawl. Cultural District. 5:30 p.m.
The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust is holding its quarterly 
Gallery Crawl this Friday. Admission to galleries and art 
spaces will be free and open to the public until 9:30 p.m 
in the Cultural District. For more information on exhibits 
and participating spaces, visit trustarts.org.
Pop Cabaret presents... SPRUNG: A Variety Show in 
Two Acts. The Andy Warhol Museum. 7 p.m.
Art students in Carnegie Mellons pop cabaret course (led 
by professor Suzie Silver and Master of Fine Arts student 
Scott Andrew) will put on a variety show of performance 
art pieces at The Andy Warhol Museum. The show is free 
and open to the public.
Pearson Sound. Belvederes Ultra-Dive. 9:30 p.m.
Dubstep DJ Pearson Sound will perform at Belvederes at 
a show hosted by Obvious and VIA. The show will feature 
visuals by local visual artist Ben Tabas. The show is 21+ 
and costs $15 at the door.
SATURDAY4.27.13
Burial. The Roboto Project (5106 Penn Ave.). 7 p.m.
German hardcore punk band Burial will perform at The 
Roboto Project with Wet Brain and Do Crimes.
Sandra Bernhard. Byham Theater. 8 p.m.
Comedian and performer Sandra Bernhard will put on 
a show at the Byham Theater. Bernhard is known for 
her challenging humor and keen satire, which promise 
to produce a show ?lled with political satire, pop culture 
commentary, and cabaret. More information and tickets 
are available at trustarts.org.
ONGOING
Regarding Warhol: Sixty Artists, Fifty Years. 
The Andy Warhol Museum. Through April 28.
The Andy Warhol Museum celebrates the 50th 
anniversary of Warhols famous Campbells Soup Cans 
with contemporary Warhol-inspired pieces and works by 
the pop art visionary himself. 
Feminist and... The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs.
What We Collect: Recent Art Acquisitions, 200712. 
Hunt Library, Fifth Floor. Through June 30.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation presents 
an exhibition of recent acquisitions to the art department, 
from the early 19th century to the present. More 
information on the exhibit is available at 
huntbot.andrew.cmu.edu/HIBD.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
FOR SALE-1 BR LG APT BELLEFIELD AVE. 
Redone 2013. New Gourmet K+B, W/W 
carpet. Inside Parking. Perfect for faculty or 
couple. $95,000 412-621-7611

---------------------------------------------------

24gallery
pillbox 04.22.13
Jonathan Leung | Assistant Photo Editor
Carnegie Mellons Game Creation Society (GCS) hosted its annual 
arcade of student-made video games on the ?fth ?oor of the Gates 
Center on Friday and Saturday as part of Spring Carnival festivities. 
The arcade featured both older classics and newer creations, many of 
which are still under development.
arcade.
