The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 37CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1944O. STERN WINS NOBEL PRIZE
Robeson Speaks 
To CIT Students
Paul Robeson, famous liberal, ac
tor, and singer, and currently enact
ing the title role in Shakespeares 
Othello, paid a brief visit to the 
Carnegie Tech Arts Department on 
Friday at 4:30 p. m. in the Little 
Theater.
To a large and spell-bound audi
ence, composed of most of the Art 
students , some Engineers and some 
Maggie Murphs, Mr. Robeson spoke 
of his experiences in the theater 
and of his opinion of the duties of 
an actor. After answering several 
questions on the possibility of a Na
tional Theater in this country, the 
great artist delighted the audience 
by singing, sotto voce, his favorite 
folksong, Water-Boy.
A detailed account of Mr. Robe
sons visit is printed on page 3 of 
this issue.
Qood ftnaifiecti
Carnegies Basketball 
Lineup Announced
By Tom Bokman 
In an exclusive interview Friday, 
your Tartan reporter garnered 
from Max Hannum some of the 
most encouraging sports news heard 
in these parts for a long time.
We have, said the great man, 
generally better material than we 
have had for the past five years. 
Some eight or ten of the boys have 
had previous experience.
The schedule includes eighteen 
opponents, most of whom we have 
been playing for several consecu
tive years. When W & J dropped 
the sport, though, Juniata college at 
Huntingdon, Pa., was added in its 
place. Slippery Rock and Allegheny 
again took up the sport this year, 
and were added to the schedule. The 
other games are with rivals of long 
standing.
No lettermen returned from last 
Continued on page 4
Nobel Prizes Given 
To Stimulate Science
The Nobel Prizes, one of which 
has just been received by Professor 
Otto Stern, are awarded from the 
Nobel Foundation, a fund establish
ed under the will of Albert B. No
bel. Mr. Nobel was a Swedish engi
neer and chemist, internationally 
famous for his discovery of dyna
mite and other explosives. From the 
manufacturing of these, and from 
the exploitation of the oil fields at 
Baku, Russia, Mr. Nobel amassed a 
huge fortune which, at his death in 
1896, he left in a trust fund for the 
establishment of five prizes.
The prizes for physics and chem
istry are awarded by the Royal 
Swedish Academy of Science, the 
one for medicine by the Caroline 
Medical Institute in Stockholm, the 
one for literature by the academy in 
Stockholm, and the one for peace by 
a committee of five persons to be 
elected by the Norwegian Storting 
(Parliament.)
The first prizes were given in 
1901. For several years during the 
war, no awards were made, and the
1943 awards were delayed for one 
year. Dr. Stern received the 1943 
prize for physics, and Professor I. 
I. Rabi, of Columbia University, re
ceived the 1944 award.
Stern Provides Valuable Data
The Nobel Prize came to Dr.
Stern in recognition of his develop
ment of the molecular beam as an 
aid in the study of atomic proper
ties, thus furnishing scientists with 
a method of attacking problems that 
can be solved by no other known 
procedure and offering a possible 
method of substantiating or dis
proving questionable theory.
Very briefly, a molecular ray may 
be produced by first allowing a gas 
at low pressure to enter a highly 
evacuated space by passing through 
a slit from which the particles, of 
course, emerge radially. By placing 
another slit in front of the first, the 
particles which pass through both 
move in the same direction. This 
selected uni-directional stream of
Dr. Otto Stern, Physicist, 
Wins Nobel Award For 1943
Dr. Otto Stern, Research Professor in the Physics Department of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, has been awarded the delayed Nobel 
prize for Physics for 1943. Although the official citation has not yet arriv
ed from Stockholm, Sweden, this award has undoubtedly been made for 
Dr. Sterns work with the so-called molecular rays, described in an ac
companying article.
Official announcement of this award, the highest recognition for a 
scientist, reached Dr. Stern in the following telegram from Stockholm, 
Sweden. ;
  PROFESSOR O. STERN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF 
TECHNOLOGY, PGH.
THE ROYAL SWEDISH ACAD
EMY OF SCIENCE HAS AWARD
ED YOU THE NOBEL PRIZE IN 
PHYSICS 1943 STOP LETTER 
FOLLOWS.
ARNE WESTGREN, 
SECRETARY. 
Born in 1888 in Sorau, Upper Sile
sia, Professor Stern studied Chem
istry and Physical Chemistry at the 
University of Breslau and was grad
uated from there in 1912. During the 
next two years he worked with Pro
fessor Albert Einstein at Breslau, 
and at the technical college in Zur
ich, Switzerland. At the beginning 
of the first World War he transfer
red to Frankfurt on the Main. In 
1921 he was appointed professor of 
physical chemistry at the Univer
sity of Rostock, where he began the 
association with Professor Estermann which has continued until to
day. Two years later he went to 
the University of Hamburg, and 
stayed there until 1933, leaving his 
post only for one year in 1930 to act 
as visiting professor at the Univer
sity of California, Berkeley, Cal.
In the summer of 1933, Professors 
Stern and Estermann, enraged by 
the practices of the new Nazi re
gime, accepted an offer to come to 
Carnegie Tech made to them by Dr. 
Thomas Baker, then president of 
the Institute. In October of the same 
year they left Hamburg and moved 
to Pittsburgh.
A few months later, the Buhl 
Foundation, who already had given 
liberal support to the CIT Coal Re
search Laboratories, granted a $25,-
000 fund for the creation of a special 
Molecular Physics Laboratory at 
Carnegie Tech, in order to enable 
the two scientists to continue their 
extremely valuable work. In an
nouncing the award, Charles F. 
Lewis, director of the Buhl Founda
tion, declared that Professor Stern, 
beyond question, ranks among the 
first half-dozen of the ablest experi
mental physicists in the world.
The coming to Pittsburgh of Pro
fessors Stern and Estermann should 
mean much to all industrial re
search laboratories in the district 
. . . Their presence in the commu
nity should powerfully stimulate 
the production of all research men. 
The new laboratory . . . will make 
worthwhile contributions to human 
knowledge.
particles is called a molecular beam 
or ray.
In Dr. Sterns setup, the element 
silver was placed in a small elec
trically heated oven. Part of the 
solid silver evaporated into silver 
vapor, the particles of which passed 
out through an orifice into a high 
vacuum, and then passed through 
two consecutive slits to definitely 
determine a true molecular beam. 
This beam or ray of silver atoms 
was then passed through a nonhomogeneous magnetic field causing 
a deflection of some of the atoms. 
The resultant beams when project
ed on a screen showed a definite 
pattern of two lines. This result in 
this case served as a comformation 
of the predictions of the theory as 
opposed to those of the classical 
theory.
This contribution of Dr. Stern and 
his collaborators is of great scientific 
importance for it can be used not 
only to delve more completely in
to the problems of atomic structure, 
but also to clarify such processes as 
chemical catalysis and chemical re
actions in gases.
Notice
There will be a very important 
meetingof the members of the 
TARTAN Staff at 7:30, Friday. 
Those who do not attend will be 
dropped from the staff.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1944
fsJUto Anmcltai/i
Lets Have Some Vacation
Official schedule this year dictates that classes be held in all colleges 
on Friday, November 24, the day after Thanksgiving. This is a holdover 
from the schedule of last year when the civilian program was running con
currently with that of the ASTP. Army officials felt that there was no 
reason to give an extra day to the Thanksgiving Day holiday, and because 
the soldiers went to school on Friday, the civilians were forced to go, too. 
Now that there is no longer any military personnel in our student set-up 
we feel that the Thanksgiving vacation should be extended to include 
Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, November 23 to 26 inclusive, 
just as it has been every year up to 1943.
The students at Carnegie Tech have no vacations at all throughout 
the semester. Many of them live too far from Pittsburgh to be able to go 
home for only one day. If they are only given Thursday they will not be 
able to go home until Christmas, and they will have spent four months 
without a vacation.
For this reason we believe the Thanksgiving Day holiday should in
clude Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
We are supposed to be going to school on an expedited program. That 
is all well and good. But, certainly, missing one day of school will not 
set us back one month. If a poll were taken of the students, we would 
find that every one of them would be willing to go an extra day in April 
to make up the Friday they would lose by not going to school on Novem
ber 24. Expedition is no longer a by-word.
For this reason we believe the Thanksgiving Day holiday should in
clude Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.
This plea is not only in the behalf of the student body. We should like 
to appeal for the faculty, also. It is not very pleasant to go to class with a 
tired professor or instructor. In spite of the proverbial conception that 
teachers are mean, old, hatchet-faced, inhuman creatures, we maintain 
that they are kind, decent, and very definitely human. They are in need of 
a few days vacation just as much as are the students.
For this reason we believe that Thanksgiving Day holiday should in
clude Thursday, Friday, Saturday and Sunday.
Carnegie Techs favorite hobby is griping about school. This per
son has too much homework, another gripes because a prof took action 
when he was absent three times, someone else is disgusted in general. 
Why, then, should unnecessary oil be thrown on an already brightly burn
ing fire? Why should student appreciation of the Administration be drop
ped to the cellar? Why not give us a decent vacation and make everyone 
happy? This is a matter of morale.
For these reasons we believe the Thanksgiving Day holiday should in
clude Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.
A. C. H.
Our Humble Opinion
Market Survey
On Tuesday, December 3, the Carnegie Tartan will conduct a Market 
Survey among the students. The purpose of this survey is to determine 
the amount of money students spend on clothing, entertainment, and mis
cellaneous items. We also want to prove to our advertisers that their pa
tronage of the Tartan is worth their time and money.
In the next three weeks we should like to have everyone determine 
the average amount of money they spend per semester on the three items 
listed above. It does not have to be an accurate figure, such as one taken 
from a budget book. And it should not be just a figure. If you will stop for 
a few minutes and think about the way of your expenditures every week, 
you will be able to find an average for sixteen weeks.
Please give us your cooperation. This is not a publicity stunt. It is a 
business matter which will require much time for tabulation and analysis. 
Let our work not be in vain. Do your little part. Be prepared on Decem
ber 3 to answer the questions on the ballot.
A. C. H.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the ttaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Sehenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. non MATTtOWIB t0 PHONE SCHCNLEY Ml
SUMtmiTIO Fon NATIONAL TheCarnrgn hi
National Advertising Service, Inc.
Callett Publisben Re presenta ti ve 
4(0 Madison Avi. New York. N. Y. Cif so * Sosto  Los Aaoeus  Sai fsamcisoo
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-chief..........Emerson 1808
Business Manager........Jackson 9896
latsrsl Sf ieaeal MM matter In the Pittsburgh Post Office tinder the Act of March I, U7I. Pibilsksl weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price 91.10 per year.
Editors in-chief.......................................................... Ernie Lowenstein, Adeline Herlick
Managing Editor ............................................................................................... Clara Herron
Business Manager ........................................................................................ Paul Schucker
Advertising Manager ................................................................................... Joel Bigelman
Circulation Manager ....................................................................................... Sam Marcus
Sports Editor ............................................... .................................................. Tim Bokman
(This department would like to 
take this opportunity to thank Miss 
Hannah Estermann for the help she 
gave us with our last column, and 
for taking the rap for our opinions 
(which, due to an error on the part 
of the Tartan staff, were printed un
der her name.) We would also like 
to clarify our position and explain 
that our columns are not intended 
as a critcism for the Drama Depart
ment, but as a review of the current 
play to give the rest of the school an 
idea of what its about, whos in if, 
and what its best and worst points 
are, as seen by someone who has 
been to all the Little Theater pro
duction for several seasons.)
The Years of the Locusts will 
probably be a surprise to you, as it 
was to us. This play has a calm, 
peaceful beauty that seems to lift 
us right out of the world we live in. 
And the Tech production of it suc
ceeds in doing that at least part of 
the time, although sometimes the 
effect would be more accurately de
scribed as hypnotic. This is a diffi
cult play to understandone must 
approach it with an unprejudiced, 
receptive mind, and even then there 
is a small danger of falling asleep 
before it has gotten well under way. 
It is unfortunate that the first act is 
so extremely long and rather awk
ward, for the play decidely im
proves with the second and third 
acts.
It is odd that the Drama students, 
usually so fond of doing scenes of 
wild emotion, should do their best
acting in this play in their character
izations of the innocent, child-like 
nuns, while the emotional character 
Helene Vauclair was very badly and 
unconvincingly done. The crowd 
scene in the second act was also 
very amateurishin both of these 
cases it would help an awful lot if 
the actors would remember to act 
between lines as well as when say
ing them. On the other hand, the 
quiet scenes between the nuns are 
beautiful and believable. Marilyn 
Bloom as the Mother Prioress gives 
one of the best performances that 
we have seen at the Little Theater 
recently. Also exceptional are Pa
tricia Turton and Joan Bower. Ellen 
Hovde is quite capable in the diffi
cult role of a very old lady. In a 
small part Robert Casey, a newcom
er to Tech audiences, shows a great 
deal of promise. We hope to see a 
lot more of him in future produc
tions.
The atmosphere of religion is 
greatly enhanced by some lovely or
gan and choral music; the organists, 
Janet Stang, Dorothy Coar, and 
Theodore Ripper, played well, but a 
little too loudly in some places. The 
sets, especially the first one, were 
extremely well designed and exe
cuted.
Not everyone will like this play, 
but if you are of a philosophic turn 
of mind, or if you are bothered by 
a lot of worries, you should really 
go down to se The Years of the Locuts. It is running until November 
21.
Letters To The Editor
The following quotations are ex
cerpts from the text of a press con
ference with Prime Minister Dr. P. 
Gerbrandy and Foreign Minister 
Dr. E. M. Van Kleffens of Holland.
The Germans wish to destroy an 
active civilization, to deprive a na
tion of its livelihood, to literally 
wipe it off the earth. For us Dutch
men, the next few weeks will de
termine not whether we are going 
to be richer or poorer after the war, 
but whether, as a modern civilized 
nation, we will be able to play our 
part in the world of the future. I 
have the fullest confidence in the 
desire of the Allied High Command 
to relieve the situation at the earl
iest possible moment. It is right and 
necessary that the world should 
know the unprecedented and dis
proportionately high price Holland 
is being made to pay for its share 
in the world struggle for freedom. If 
Holland is to be ravaged by violence 
in battle, to be starved, frozen and 
drowned as well, the world should 
realize this so that it may be willing 
to help in saving whatever is left to 
be saved.
The major cities of the Nether
lands are faced with the certainty 
that unless military developments 
lead to the expulsion of the Ger
mans in the immediate future, 
available food supplies will be ex
hausted and all gas, electricity, and 
power will be completely cut off be
fore the month is over. Vast areas 
are inundated; the systematic dem
olition of port installations, power 
plants, pumping stations, and in
dustrial objects of every kind will 
paralyze transportation, and you
may well imagine the plight of 7,-
000,000 men and women and chil
dren trapped between the Rhine 
delta in the south, the sea in the 
west and north, and the burning, 
looting German armies in the east. 
According to recent reports, the 
largest cities are without meat sup
plies and bread; butter, sugar, and 
potatoes are expected to run out 
within the next three weeks. The 
exhaustion of all gas and electricity 
supplies is still more imminent. To 
complete the disaster, it is estimated 
that the sewage and the drinking 
water supply of the major cities 
will cease in about five weeks. 
Seventeen percent (one million 
acres) of the arable land and pas
tures has been flooded. Since there 
is salt water on a very considera
ble part of these areas, the land will 
be unusable for several years. Vast 
tracts of land on which were locat
ed many towns and villages, includ
ing parts of Amsterdam and Rotter
dam, will disappear under salt wa
tersome parts to a depth of ten to 
twenty feet. The sewage in huge 
cities will be destroyed, causing 
severe risks from epidemic. Thou
sands of people in the inundated 
areas are being expelled from their 
homes. The evacuees, lacking trans
portation of any sort, ar forced to 
abandon their belongings.
We, the members of the Womens 
Club of C. I. T. ask your help in pro
viding warm clothing for these peo
ple. Your contributions will be 
gratefully received at the Womens 
Club next to Hawthorne Hall be
tween the hours of 11 and 4 every 
Wednesday.
The Womens Club of C. I. T,

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Paul Robeson Inspires Students 
With Stirring Song And Speech
On Friday afternoon, we had the 
unforgettable privilege of seeing 
Paul Robeson during his all-toobrief visit to Carnegie Tech. No sec
ond hand account can ever do jus
tice to the magnificent sentiment 
expressed by Mr. Robeson, nor por
tray his electrifying personality, but 
we hope that the reader will share 
some of the inspiration everyone in 
the audience received from Mr. 
Robesons talk.
The great artist was introduced as 
an old friend by Professor Mary 
Morris, director of the Drama De
partments current production, The 
Years of the Locust, who had met 
him years ago when he played Em
peror Jones in the Provincetown 
Playhouse. Mr. Robeson related how 
he had been a student of Columbia 
Law School at that time, without 
any intention or ambition to become 
an actor, and that he had accepted 
the engagement only because of the 
inviting salary: $75 a week. At least 
that is what he told Dr. Stone, then 
Dean of the Law School, and now 
Chief Justice of the United States. 
He was admirably suited for the 
part in ONeills play, with only one 
shortcoming: he could not do the 
whistling required in the playand, 
incidentally, is still unable to do so 
today. Instead, he sang . . . and 
thus started a career which made 
him one of the foremost basses in 
the world.
After these introductory remarks, 
Paul Robeson continued with a 
more serious discussion of his voca
tion. Coming from a group which 
has never enjoyed the full priv
ileges of democracy, Mr. Robeson 
approaches acting from a point of 
view which is more than just tech
nical. By his personal experiences, 
and after seeing the uprooting and 
scattering of the European theatre, 
he has become convinced that an 
artist cannot and must not live in a 
cubbyhole, but must be in accord 
with the times. In this country, for 
example, a colored artist  or, for 
matter, any outstanding Negrohas 
a responsibility greater than the one
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
to himself. As a member of a mi
nority he must carry on his shoulder 
the whole weight of his people. Mr. 
Robeson takes pride in his singing 
not because of his excellence, but 
because, by that very quality, he has 
demonstrated the greatness of Negro 
music. He, and a few others like 
him, have made the Negro folksong 
part of the world folksong.
An actor, Mr. Robeson, must learn 
to act, of course, but he must go be
yond the purely technical approach. 
Paul Robeson has achieved this, and 
that is why he enjoys his present 
engagement as Othello so much. 
This production of the play has 
shown the possibility of a mixed 
cast, and has thus made a tremen
dous contribution toward improved 
race relations. To see a colored actor 
play side by side with white per
sons restores the faith of the Negro 
people, and Mr. Robeson is justly 
proud that it has done so especially 
in Detroit, now more than ever a 
racial hotbed.
Art, to Mr. Robeson, is a social 
force. It is that in Russia, in pre-war 
France, and to a lesser degree even 
in England; it should become that 
here.
Tri-Delt Coke Party
The pledges of Delta Delta Delta 
sorority entertained the pledges of 
the other sororities on campus at a 
coke party last Thursday afternoon. 
The party, autumn picnic, was held 
in the Lounge of Thistle Hall and 
was complete even to the traditional 
picnic pestsants (paper).
You And Your 
Out-of-Town Friends
will find comfortable 
accommodations 
at
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 7700
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MELK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONS
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT;
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Carnegie Teeh Opens 
Sixth War Bond Drive 
Starting November 20
The C. I. T. faculty is taking 
charge of a bond center in conjunc
tion with the Sixth War Bond Drive 
which begins November 20 and will 
continue until December 16. This 
center will be open daily, except 
Saturday, between 12:00 and 2:00 
from November 20 until December
1, and it will open again on De
cember 15. Bonds of any series and 
of any denomination will be on sale 
at the center which will be located 
at the entrance to Administration 
Hall.
The students as well as their fam
ilies and the members of the faculty 
are urged to make the C. I. T. booth 
their source for bonds if they are 
not already regularly purchasing 
bonds at another center. Stamp 
books may be exchanged for bonds 
at this campus center.
Miss Louise G. Russell is the com
mittee chairman of Carnegie Techs 
Sixth War Bond Drive.
Carnegie Tech Plans 
Courses In Aviation
Carnegie Tech is one of the seven
teen Pennsylvania colleges and uni
versities planning to establish, con
tinue or expand student courses in 
aviation after the war, it has been 
disclosed by Ernest R. Breech, Pres
ident, Bendix Aviation Corporation. 
In common with most of the other 
455 American colleges and universi
ties which responded to the com
panys survey, the Pennsylvania in
stitutions said they would require 
for teaching purposes large amounts 
of government owned aircraft 
equipment which will be declared 
surplus after the war. This equip
ment will be made available to the 
schools on a sale or lease basis un
der provisions of Federal Surplus 
Disposal Law. Other Pennsylvania 
colleges include Temple University, 
Thiel College, State Teachers Col
lege, Franklin and Marshall College, 
Grove City College, Pennsylvania 
State College, and the University of 
Pennsylvania.
NEW RADIO RELAY LINK
FOR TELEPHONE AND TELEVISION
Tiny radio waves, shorter than any used bfefore in commercial 
telephony, will link New York and Boston in a new experi
mental wjump-jump relay system for the transmission of 
telephone speech and television programs.
These waves' travel in straight lines like beams of light. 
Because of the earths curvature, the distance will be spanned 
in a series of straight-line jumps between transmitting and 
receiving stations about 30 miles apart.
The Bell System plans post-war improvements in ways like 
this, to extend its nation-wide service by providing more Long 
Distance telephone facilities for peacetime needs.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and War 

---------------------------------------------------

TH& CARNEGIE TARTANThe Plaid
Thanksgiving Dance 
To Be Held Nov. 25 
In Exhibition Room
Come on, Chillun, lets dance! 
No, were not going to have Kay 
Kysers Orchestra at the Thanks
giving Dance, but we are going to 
have Phil Eskin and his Rhythm 
Kings, and we know youll enjoy 
them.
The dance is sponsored by the 
Evening Student Council and will 
be held in the Exhibition Hall of 
Fine Arts on Saturday, November 
25, from 9:00 to 12:00 P. M. Come 
and bring your friends! Admission 
is 50c per person, with the excep
tion of servicemen who are ad
mitted free. Lots of servicemen have 
been invited; so dont worry, girls, 
therell be someone there to dance 
with you.
This promises to be the most ex
citing event of the season so far, so 
lets have a big turnout. There will 
be refreshing soft drinks served 
during intermissions at a small 
charge.
Colorful decorations will carry 
out the spirit of the festive occasion, 
so well be looking for you there. 
Dont forget the dateNovember 
25, at 9:00 P. M.
New Council Meets; 
Officers Announced
On November 5 the first regular 
meeting of the 1944-45 Evening Stu
dent Council was called to order by 
Chester J. Biscup, President.
Officers of the current year for 
the College of Engineering and the 
College of Fine Arts are as follows:
Colege of Engineering:
President: Harold E. Park.
Vice President: Robert Brown. 
Secretary: Fred Vichich. 
Treasurer: Frank Mihelich.
College of Fine Arts:
President: Arlene McMurray. 
Vice President: Ruth McGraw. 
Secretary: Mary De Maria. 
Treasurer: Mitzi Kitchen.
At the same meeting, officers of 
Evening Student Council were also 
selected. Those chosen were Ruth 
McGraw, Vice President; Mary De 
Maria, Secretary; and Harold E. 
Park, Treasurer.
Virginia Ehni and Olive Baum
gardner of the General Subjects 
Division and Florence Chorba of 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege will be members of the Student 
Council as representatives of their 
respective groups.
The Plaid
Editor 
Joseph M. Rymar
News Editor
Mary de Maria Associate EditorsRuth McGraw Arlene McMurray
Pate edited by Evening School Students of Carnegie Instltate ( Technology. All views o opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner Florence Chorba Virginia Ehni Thelma Kitchen 
Irene Koemer S. W. Marcinizn
Fred Vichich
Elaine Martin Frank Mihelich 
Dorothy Papa Milton Ryan Dorothy Shields 
Lois Schultz
Will somebody pull-eez tell us 
where Betty Conley learned to cut 
a rug the way she does? Anyhow, 
her partner had difficulty in keeping 
up with her flighty feet while danc
ing with her at the Post-Halloween 
Party ... We hear George Bogovich was home on leave after com
pleting his basic training at Fort 
Blanding, Florida . . . News from 
the front linesCpl. Robert Ross 
Bassett is now in sunny France 
. . . Edward A. Loria, one of Car
negie Techs Evening School stu
dents who is now taking a post
graduate couurse in Metallurgical 
Engineering, presented a paper en
titled Rates of Tempering Cobalt 
Steels at the Twenty-Sixth Annual 
Convention of the American Society 
for Metals, held in Cleveland, Ohio, 
October 16-20 . . . Plaid Staff la
ments the absence of three of its 
workers  Dorothy Shields. Irene 
Koerner, and Frank Mihelich. Just 
what has this trio been up to? . . . 
Maybe Fred Fullmer wouldnt have 
so much trouble reading voltmeters 
if the rest of the class didnt spend 
so much time kibitzing . . . Havent 
seen hide or hair of four prominent 
evening school collegiates; namely, 
Biss (or is he still borrowing car
bon paper), Persohn, Myers, and 
Kirkbride. Cmon, fess us, fellas! 
Whats keeping you from our lassies 
at the evening school dances! Inci
dentally, has anybody ever seen 
George Biss dance? . . . Well, time 
to conclude this document, so 
whether you are Republican or 
Democrat, come to the Thanksgiv
ing Dance, November 25. Watch 
this paper for further announce
ment!
Drama Department 
Presents 2nd Production
The Drama Department will pre
sent The Years of the Locusts as its 
second production this season in the 
Little Theater in the Fine Arts 
Building. The play is scheduled to 
run from Saturday, November 11, 
until Monday, November 21.
Evening school students may ob
tain two tickets without charge for 
one performance by presenting 
their registration cards in Room 
255-C, Industries Hall.
Get your tickets now as the sup
ply is limited.
Attention!
The Carnegie Technical, a student 
publication, invites evening school 
students to submit articles of tech
nical interest. Articles should be 
1000-3500 words in length and may 
include drawings, diagrams, and 
photographs pertaining to article.
To those interested in subscribing 
to the Technical, the rate is one dol
lar per year, mailed. Please address 
all communications to the Carnegie 
Technical, Box 324, Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Basketball
Continued from page 1 
years team, but only three former 
members did, namely, Jim Simpson, 
Bill Scherb, and Ed Smuts. Where, 
then, is all of the material found? 
The freshman class, of course. Nine 
out of the first ten men are fresh
men, as are twelve out of the en
tire twenty-one.
The first team will probably line 
up like this. Max said. Tasso Katselas and Leo 'Clougherty at for
wards, Mike Theodore at center, Oreste Scioscia and Melvin Klein at 
guards. The best part of it is, he 
continued, Klein, Clougherty, and 
Katselas played together in high 
school, and Theodore often joined 
them in tournament competition. 
Scioscia is a North Side boy, who 
played at Massanutten Military 
Academy.
This lineup isnt definite, since 
Tami Morinello is also playing 
good ball, and may break into the 
first string. At present, he is playing 
on the second team with Scherb and 
Snyder at forwards, Prus at center, 
and Fastuca at the other guard po
sition.
Lighting his Joe College pipe, 
Max rolled on; The third team has 
Rahall and Pollock at forwards, 
Smuts at center, and Simpson and 
Marcus at guards . The fourth 
team
Aw, now youre bragging. I told 
him.
No, really, the fourth team has 
Slone and Dean at forwards, John
son at Center, and Schucker and 
Thurston at guards. Another boy, 
Wendell Minor is out, and with 
practice will advance to one of the 
first three teams.
That sounded to me like a good 
prospect for the coming season. 
Now, if they can all avoid turning 
eighteen between now and Decem
ber, things should look up. We can 
hope for a better year than the last, 
when we showed only one game on 
the right side of the ledger.
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
On the Campus
Discussion Club
There will be a meeting of the 
C. I. T. Discussion Club this evening 
at 7:00 in the Union. The subject for 
discussion will be What to do with 
Germany after the war. All mem
bers of the student body and faculty 
are invited to attend.
Science Club
Next Thursday, November 16, the 
Science Club of Margaret Morrison 
will hold a dinner meeting in the 
Betsy Ross Tea Room. At 8:30 the 
club will attend a demonstration to 
be given by Dr. Emma Carr, head 
of the chemistry department at Mt. 
Holyoke College, in the auditorium 
of the Mellon Institute. The subject 
of her lecture is the absorption 
spectra of hydrocarbons. All stu
dents interested in science are in
vited to attend this lecture.
Home Ec Club
The Home Economics Club will 
hold its next meeting Wednesday, 
November 15 at 4:00 in the Recrea
tion Hall of Margaret Morrison. At 
this time the newly formed organ
ization will install its officers and 
approve the constitution drawn up 
by the board.
Employment
Boys
Elevator boys in evenings, week days, 
and all Saturdays.
Work in the Railway Express, post of
fice, and Railway Mail.
Girls
Department Stores.
Children to be watched afternoons and 
evenings.
Report to Employment Office.
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 14, 1944
Roller Skate At The
LEXINGTON 
RINK
In the Heart of East Liberty
Kiddies SessionSat. 11-1 
Mats.: Tues., Thurs., Sat., Sun., 2-4:30 
Every Evening 8-11
Rates to Parties of 40 or more
HI. 9800
TURN OFTEN 
TO YOUR BANK FOR THE 
COUNSEL OF EXPERIENCE
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL. DEPOSIT 
INSURANCE CORPORATION
