VOL. 48No. 26 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., MAY 10, 1955
Pi Kappa Alpha Wins First 
Place In Booth Competition
Pi Kappa Alpha won first prize ir^the Spring Carnival booth 
judging this year. Their booth was called Dart House of the August 
Moon anr! carried an Oriental theme throughout. As the name 
suggests the booth featured a dart game. The booth was complete with 
bamboo shades, fishbowl, and the*
people working in the booth wear
ing Japanese costumes.
The second place trophy went to 
Kappa Sigma fraternity for their 
Russian Hunt booth. This booth 
featured a shooting gallery de
signed with a Russian atmosphere.
Delta Tau Delta took third place 
for a Carnival booth that was de
signed to look like a tent on the 
Arabian desert. It featured a game 
of chance and the people working 
the booth were complete in cos
tume and flowing beards.
In addition to the three trophies 
awarded at the dance Saturday 
night Beta Theta fi, Alpha Tau 
Omega, and Sigma Nu were named 
for honorable mention. The Beta 
Spring Cannibal booth gave spec
tators a chance to duck a explorer 
while the ATO booth featured a 
large ship called the ATO Inter
national and their shuffle board 
game. This year the Sigma Nu 
[Continued on page 2]
Tech Organist 
Wins First Place 
In Music Contest
Edmund Ladouceur, a Tech sub
senior, won first place for the, per
formance on the organ at a con
test sponsored by the National 
Cathollfc Music Educators Associa
tion held in Louisville May 1. A 
student in the music department, 
he is majoring in organ music and 
music education.
Edmund was the representative 
from this area for keyboard in
struments. He traveled to the 
University of Louisvilles School 
of Music to enter the national com
petition. Entering in the college 
division, he played Fugue in E 
flat by Bach, and Toccata by 
Van Hulse, selections required by 
the association.
Trophy Winning Booth
Despite its elaborate Japanese theme exterior, this Pi Kappa Al
pha midway booth housed a simple dart throwing game.
The $10.00 graduation fee 
for all degree candidates at 
the June Commencement is 
payable at the Registrars Of
fice.
For doctoral candidates, 
there is the 25.00 deposit 
pending the publication of 
their dissertation. This de
posit should be arranged with 
Mr. Claney in the Office of 
the Controller.
Diplomas will not be re
leased until all fees have been 
paid.
Drama School 
Faculty, Students 
Offer The Rivals
Both faculty and students will 
take part in the production cast 
for the drama departments forth
coming presentation of Richard 
Brinsley Sheridans The Rivals, 
to be directed by Charles Werner 
Moore.
The facultys contributions will 
include acting and direction by 
Henry Boettcher, Allen Fletcher, 
Charles Werner Moore, and Mary 
Morris; costumes by Elizabeth 
Schrader Kimberly and Fay 
Moore; lighting by William Nel
son, play writing by Arthur Wilmurt, and radio by Lionel Poulton. 
JLloyd Weninger and Paul Trautvetter are in charge of scene 
design and technical direction. 
Speech is directed by Edith Warman Skinner and Ruth Dennhardt, 
stage movement by Katherine 
Litz, and theatre management by 
Richard A. Hoover.
Student Staff Work
In the student staff, settings are 
being done by Leo Meyer, light
ing by Marshall Booth, and custumes by Mary Weaver and Nancy 
Dickinson. James Golds wig is 
serving as stage manager with 
Rose Marie Schneider and Marlou 
Jahn as his assistants. Robert 
Levin is stage carpenter. Richard 
Nelson is draftsman, and Stephen 
Arnold, John Bos, Frances Jungk, 
John Pierce, and David Sharove 
are special projects coordination.
[Continued on page 4]
7955 Carnival Queen
Queen Diane Bobinski shown immediately after her coronation 
by President Warner. Her court includes Jimmy Fam, Barb Hall, 
Bookee McGinley, and Sarah Hailperin.
A TO Shatters Sweepstakes Record 
To Capture First Two Positions
Many Are Called 
By 13 Honaries
Photographers were busy with the candidates on the Spring 
Carnival court as the 1955 carnival was officially opened on Flag
staff Hill last Friday. The Kiltie pipers and representatives from 
Scabbard and Blade preceeded the court to the platform. Dr. Warner
KS, KKG, And 
Psychology Win 
Firsts In Contests
Kappa Sigma emerged victorious 
in the second annual plank joust
ing contest, Kappa Kappa Gamma 
won the sorority relay race com
petition, and the psychology de
partment repeated as champions 
of the faculty egg throw, in the
Typical scene from Saturdays 
plank jousting contest. Obviously 
this one didnt win his match.
events which were somewhat 
overshadowed by the sweepstakes 
and booth competition.
On Friday afternoon, the repre
sentatives from the seven soror
ities congregated on the Fine Arts 
lawn to demonstrate their skill in 
the relay races, which were of 
unknown nature. They consisted 
of seven contests, including a 
wheelbarrow race, a sack racef a 
water balancing race, one in 
which the girls had to imitate 
certain animals, a ping pong ball 
blowing contest, and a final mad 
scramble in which all of their 
shoes were thrown into a pile and 
shuffled, and the girls told to find 
them and put them on as quickly 
as possible. All races were close 
and it was not certain until Satur
day at the dance that the Kappas 
had won.
Plank Jousting
In a hot, gooey battle on Satur
day afternoon, the Kappa Sigs put 
down all of their opponents to be
come the campus plank jousting 
champions. Armed with pillows, 
they managed to swing hard 
enough to remain on the four-inch 
wide plank long enough to win 
the victory. In the process, many 
members of the 16 competing 
teams, including the winners, were 
sent sprawling into the sea of mud 
[Continued on page 4]
then crowned Diane Bobinski of 
Chi Omega as Spring Carnival 
Queen of 1955, and she officially 
opened Techs annual spring fes
tivities.
The royal court consisted of 
Barbara Hall, Sarah Hailperin, 
Jimmy Fam, and Bookee McGin
ley. Little Kathy Casey was crown 
bearer. Selections by the Kiltie 
Band and Cameron Choir were 
presented before the crowd on 
Flagstaff Hill. A general welcome 
and introduction of calls was made 
by Leb Brown, master of cere
monies, who acted in place of Bob 
Livingston.
, Activity Keys
Those presented with activity 
keys were: Thomas Agnew, Jerry 
Bracken, Michael Driscoll, Ed 
Feigenbaum, Ronald Gillette, Don
ald Gross, Si Kellman, Phil Jeske, 
Bob Livingston, Robert Lindsay, 
James Miller, Joan Newman, Mary 
Prezioso, Jean Turri, Joseph Tho
mas, Joseph Santacroee, William 
Watso, Mary Jane Opris, Clyde 
Rohland, Edward Pasierb, Nancy 
Davis, John Drgon, Pat Naugle, 
Dominick Schrello, Joel Levinson, 
and Robert Haring.
The Edward E. MacDonald 
Award for outstanding achieve
ment in the field of journalism 
was presented to Edward A. Fei
genbaum. Richard Fieler present
ed the Tartan award for the most 
valuable intramural athlete to 
Keith Kelsay. Edward Miller was 
given the award for the most 
valuable varsity athlete by Tom 
Wright. The A1 Cerrito award for 
the years most outstanding bas
ketball player was given to Jim
my Bpyd by Dick Major.
Mortar Boayd scholarships were 
awarded by Joanne Boyd to Mary 
Michael Pollock and Sylvia Dante. 
Donald Hrosik presented the Var
sity C award to William Heineke. 
An award given by the Society 
for the Advancement of Manage
ment was received by Joel Levinson.
Technical Awards
The Carnegie Technical awards 
were made by Edward Feigen
baum to Wayne Smith. Werner 
Strauss, John Begovich, Peted Urbach, Janet McPeake, Susan 
Hayes, Joel Levinson, Richard 
Flati, Aubrey Amey, Terry Sharp, 
David Larson, Robert Englemore, 
Alan Hodel, William Schall, Wil
liam Minkler, Timothy Day, Jon 
Saxe, Louis Salvador and Arnold 
Wasserman.
Calls to membership were made 
by the folowing honoraries. Omicron Delta Kappa, national senior 
mens honorary: Harry Bracken, 
John Drgon, Edward Feigenbaum, 
Wesley Folsom, Robert Lindsay,
I Dick Major, Edward Pasierb, John 
Recker, Charles Schaul. James Til1 brook, and Thomas Wright.
Mortar Board
Mortar Board, national senior 
womens honorary: Diane Farring[Continued on page 3]
Alpha Tau Omega really swept 
the sweepstakes this year, taking 
both first and second places, and 
a second place for design. They 
were awarded their three trophies 
by Diane Bobinski, Spring Carni
val Queen, and Phil Jeske, 
Carnival committee chairman, at 
the formal on Saturday night.
By some strange circumstances, 
the top six buggies in the race 
were the entries of only three 
fraternities. Pi Kappa Alpha took 
the third place trophy and their 
second buggy finished fourth. The 
two Kappa Sig buggies were fifth 
and sixth.
In the preliminaries on Friday, 
the ATO buggy came within two 
tenths of a second of the existing 
course record of 2:28.1. Then in 
the finals, they set a new record 
of 2:26.0. To give some idea of 
how competition has stiffened in 
the past few years, the buggy 
course record time was 2:47 in 
1940, and this year that time was 
bettered by six buggies. A record 
of 2:41.8 was set in 1950, and it
Track star John Muller sprint
ing toward the finish line in the 
final race behind the ATO coppercolored, cigar-size speedster.
has been lowered by at least two 
seconds every year since.
Design Winner 
The beautiful black buggy of 
Phi Kappa, which finished seventh, 
took the first place design trophy, 
while the ATOs midget flash was 
second and Kappa Sigma received 
honorable mention. The judging 
took place beside Machinery Hall 
early Friday morning. Serving as 
judges were R. E. Gardner of the 
painting and design department., 
E. T. Gaylord of the M.E. depart
ment, and a Mr. Butterfield of 
Fisher Body Corporation.
The sweepstakes this year were 
unique in that every buggy cross
ed the finish line,-and there were 
no mishaps out of a field of 17. 
Last year, five entries failed to 
finish due to frozen bearings, 
thrown wheels, and spin outs.
A surprise entry in the race was 
sponsored by Harrys Boys Club 
and pushed primarily by Tech 
track team membersEither due 
[Continued on page 2]

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 10, 1955
Walt Harper and Band
Walt Harper shown entertaining some of the crowd at the Fri
day street dance with a jazz session. He played a varied program 
of dance music for a surprisingly large crowd who braved the chilly 
weather.
Formal In Gym Ends 
1955 Spring Carnival
Bringing to a climax Carnegie Techs 1955 Spring Carnival fes
tivities was the formal on Saturday night in the gym. Art Mooney 
and his orchestra were featured and they were well received by the
large crowd in attendance. ?------------------------------------------------------
The Frolic Internationale theme
was carried out in the dance dec
orations, , which included travel 
posters, flags, and mammoth bal
loons, set off by colored light. 
The new airangement of the 
dance area, with the entrance at 
the Schenley Park end, produced 
the effect of a much larger floor.
Presentation of Awards 
During intermission, Queen Di
ane Bobinski and ODK Spring 
Carnival committee chairman Phil 
Jeske made the awards.
Alpha Tau Omega fraternity, 
for the third consecutive year, 
took first place in the fraternity 
Sweepstakes competition and were 
also awarded the second place 
trophy won with their second bug
gy entry. Third place honors went 
to Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity.
Phi Kappa fraternity was 
awarded the first place trophy for j 
it's pushmobile design. Alpha Tau 
Omega took second place and . 
Kappa Sigma an honorable men; 
tion for their designs.
Kappa Sigma also took first 
place in the plank jousting com
petition held Saturday afternoon 
at Carnegie Union. Pi Kappa Al
pha was awarded second place. 
First Booth Trophy Awarded 
In place of last years costume 
parade competition, Tech fratern
ities and sororities participated in 
midway booth  competition. Pi 
Kappa Alpha's Dart House of the 
August Moon was awarded the 
first place trophy. Second honors 
went to Kappa Sigma for their 
Russian Hunt and third to Delta 
Tau Delta for their Arabian 
Nights. Honorable mentions were 
made to Beta Theta Pi, Sigma Nu, 
and Alpha Tau Omega.
For their performance in the 
third annual sorority competitions 
held Friday afternoon on the Fine 
Arts lawn, Kappa Kappa Gamma 
was given the first place award.
Defending last years victory in 
the Faculty Egg Throw, the psy
chology department once again 
took first place. Dr. B. von Haller 
Gilmer, head of the department, 
and star egg thrower accepted the 
trophy.
Sweepstakes
[Continued from page 2] 
to the faults of the buggy or the 
pushers they could place no high
er than ninth.
During the third round of 
qualifying heats, the PiKA buggy 
ran the fastest time up until then, 
2:34.0. But in the very next round, 
the blue ATO buggy ran a 2:33.7 
and in the last round, their first
Official Times
Preliminaries
ATO....................................2:28.3
ATO....................................2:33.7
PiKA ..................................2:34.0
PiKA ............................2:43.5
KS ..................................2:45.5
KS ......................................2:46.3
PK ......................................2:48.2
SAE ....................................2:52.2
Harrys BC........................2:53.1
TX .:.................................2:53.8
BTP ....................................2:58.1
DU ......................................2:59.3
BSR ....................................3:02.4
DTD....................................3:06.2
SN ......................................3:14.4
BTP ...................................3:39.3
TDP....................................3:48.8
Finals
ATO....................................2:26.0
ATO....................................2:30.5
PiKA ..................................2:32.6
Warner Names 
25 Promotions 
Of CIT Faculty
Carnegie Techs President, Dr. 
J. C. Warner, on May 5 an
nounced promotions for 25 faculty 
members. Five new full pro
fessors were named, sixteen asso
ciate professors and four assist
ant professors. All promotions 
will be effective September 1.
William O. Philbrook was ele
vated to professor of metallurgical 
engineering, Philip Southwick be
came a professor of Chemistry, 
Raymond Fisher was appointed 
professor of architecture, Melva 
B. Bakkie was made a professor 
of home economics and Harold 
Guetzkow became professor of in
dustrial administration and psy
chology.
Associate professors named in 
the College of Engineering and 
Science were Julius Ashkin, phy
sics, John F. Osterle, William F. 
Stokey and Clarence M. Tyler, Jr., 
mechanical engineering, Charles F. 
Peck Jr., civil engineering, and 
Guy M. Pound, metallurgical en
gineering.
In the College of Fine Arts, 
Robert E. Gardner was promoted 
to assistant professor of drawing 
and painting and Robert S. Tay
lor made associate professor of 
architecture.
Promoted to associate professor : 
of home economics at Margaret; 
Morrison Carnegie College were j 
Florence L. Bailey and Elizabeth j 
W. Ellett. Elsie L. Leffingwell has 
been named associate professor of 
secretarial studies.
New associate professors in the 
Division of Humanistic and So
cial Studies were William M. 
Schutte, Robert C. Slack and Er
win R. Steinberg of the English 
department, and Robert M, Mor
gan of the department of psy
chology and education. Nancy R. 
Barthelemy and Earl J. Birdy, Jr. 
were appointed Assistant Profess
ors of Physical Education. Roy W. 
Curry became Assistant Professor 
of History.
In the Graduate School of Inj 
dustrial Administration, Richard 
M. Cyert was named associate 
professor of economics and indus: 
trial administration and Myron L. 
Joseph became associate professor j 
of economics.
QnC^nposwithMsShulman
buggy ran a 2:28.3. None of the 
preliminaries were especially close 
races, but the final on Saturday 
morning was a real thriller, with 
only six seconds separating the 
first and third buggies. As the trio 
started up the hill beside Porter 
Hall, they were very close to
gether, but superior pushing 
strength carried the ATOs to 
victory.
Petitions
The general spring semes
ter all school election for Stu
dent Council representatives 
will be held on May 17. Rep
resentatives from Margaret 
Morrison, Engineering Sc Sci
ence, Industrial Administra
tion, and Fine Arts will be 
elected at that time. Each can
didate is required to have a 
petition signed by at least 40 
full time undergraduate stu
dents of the college he is to 
represent. These are available 
in the office of the Dean of 
Men, and must be returned 
before May 14.
International Club 
Will Hear Talk 
On Turkey Today
The next meeting of the Inter
national Club will be held on 
Thursday, May 12, at 8:00 p.m. in 
Carnegie Union. 
Dr. Veli Aytekin the _ guest 
speaker, will talk on Modern 
Turkey.
Dr. Veli Aytekin was born in 
Tr&kya, part of Turkey; he went 
to the University of Birmingham, 
England, where he got his B.Sc. 
and Ph.D. He returned to Turkey 
in 1950 and was head of the re
search department of the Iron & 
Steel Works in Karabuk until 
1954, when he came here to the 
Metals Research Laboratory.
There will be a social hour after 
the speech, and refreshments will 
be served. All interested are cor
dially invited.
Joseph Swoboda 
Elected New CO 
Of PR Company
The annual Carnegie Pershing 
Rifles elections have been held and 
the results posted. Commanding 
officer for the 1955-56 school year, 
starting next fall, is Joseph Swo
boda. Executive officer is Bartley 
Osborne, with Steve Mapes, Adju
tant.
Others elected to office were: 
Terry Sharp, S-l; Charles Cuppy, 
S-2; William Moore, S-3; and 
Larry Beresik, S-4; Robert Marik 
is the new first sergeant.
The Pershing Rifles is a natonal 
Basic ROTC honor society and 
drill team. Eligible for member
ship are basic ROTC cadets. A 
personal interview, along with the 
1 students ROTC record, are the 
main considerations for admission 
into the honorary.
One of its most important funcj tions is as a drill team. Members 
meet for two hours every Wed
nesday and Thursday night to 
| sharpen their maneuvers. The Ri
fles represent -Tech at national drill 
meets such as the one held at Penn 
State on April 23.
Among the leaser known func
tions of the Pershing Rifles is pro
viding a color guard for football 
games, and competing with Pitt 
and Duquesne for the privilege of 
marching in the Armed Forces 
Day Parade.
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Cheek, etc.)
THE GREAT CAP and GOWN CONTROVERSY
The cap and gown season is upon us, and with it comes the 
perennial question: which side of the eap should the tassel hang on?
This is an argument that arises every year to roil the aca
demic world, and it is, alas, no closer to solution today than it 
was in 1604 when Fred Tassel invented the troublesome orna
ment. *
Fred Tassel, incidentally, never made a penny from his inven
tion. The sad fact is he never took out a patent on it. This tragic 
oversight becomes understandable, however, when one considers 
that patents were not invented till 1851 by Fred Patent, himself 
a pitiable figure. A compulsive handwasher, he died in his four
teenth year, leaving behind a wife and five spotless children.
But I digress. We were discussing which side of the cap the 
tassel should hang on.
For many years the universally accepted practice was to hang 
the tassel over the front of the cap. This practice was abandoned 
in 1942 when the entire graduating class of Northwestern Uni
versity, blinded by tassels hanging in their eyes, made a wrong 
turn during commencement exercises and ended up at the Great 
Lakes Training Center where, all unwitting, they were inducted 
into the Navy for five year hitches.
There is one school of thoughtlarge and growing daily larger 
which holds that the tassel should be worn on the same side 
you carry your Philip Morris cigarettes. Thus a quick glance 
will show you where your Philip Morris are and save much time 
and fumbling.
This makes a good deal of sense because when one wants a 
Philip Morris, one wants one with a minimum of delay. One does 
not relish being kept, even for a second, from the clean, delicate 
flavor of Philip Morris, so artfully blendecl, so subtly concocted 
to please the keen and alert taste buds of young smokers. One 
chafes at any obstacle, however small, that is put in the way of 
enjoying this most edifying of cigarettes, pleasing to the 
perceptive palate. Here, in king size or regular, at prices that 
do no violence to the slimmest of budgets, is a firm white cylinder 
of balm and pure, abiding content.
There is another group, small but vocal, that insists the tassel 
should hang over the back of the cap. The tassel, they gay, is a 
symbol like the bullfighters pigtail, signifying honor and 
courage.
They are wrong. Bullfighters wear pigtails for only one rea
son: to keep the backs of their necks warm. Do you have any 
idea what a draft a bull makes when he rushes past you? A 
plenty big one, you may be sure.
In fact, upper respiratory infections, contracted in the wake of 
passing bulls, are the largest single cause of bullring fatalities. 
I have this interesting statistic from the Bullfighters Mutual 
Life Insurance Company of Hartford, Connecticut, one of the 
few insurance companies in Hartford, Connecticut, which writes 
insurance exclusively for bullfighter^. Incidentally, Hartford, 
the insurance capit'al of America, is a most interesting city and 
well worth a visit if you are ever in New England, as north
eastern United States is, for some reason, called. Hartford can 
be reached by bus, train, plane, and the Humboldt Current. Try 
to make your visit in spring, when the actuaries are in bloom.
But I digress. We were talking about what side to wear the 
tassel on. An ingenious solution to this troubling problem was 
proposed a few years ago by Fred Sigafoos, perhaps better known 
as The Quoit King of Delaware. An early forbear of Mr. 
Sigafoos, Humboldt Sigafoos (who later invented the current 
which bears his name) w^s granted a monopoly by King George 
III on all quoits manufactured in Delaware. Somehow the royal 
appointment was never rescinded and from that day to this, 
every quoit made in Delaware has been a Sigafoos Quoit.
Well, sir, Fred Sigafoos once suggested that an equitable 
settlement to the great tassel controversy would be to starch 
the tassels sp they stood upright and hung on no side of the cap 
at all. Mr. Sigafoos was, of course, only seeking to broaden his 
market, because after graduation, what can you do with an 
upright tassel but hurl quoits at it?'Mat Staulman. 1955
The makers of PHILIP MORRIS who bring you this column make no 
recommendation about what side to hang the tassel on. Rut with 
cigarettes they say: Stay on the gentle, tasty, vintage side  with 
PHILIP MORRIS, of course.
Booths
[Continued from page 1 ] 
booth was again based on the idea 
of throwing plates at bobbing fig
ures.
This was the first year that the 
groups having booths on the mid
way have competed for trophies. 
The feeling of the Spring Carnival 
comfhittee was that the midway 
had featured the same booths year 
after year and that this competi
tion would bring about some 
change and brightness to the mid
way.
MMCC Seniors
The Senior Farewell As
sembly for all Margaret Mor
rison seniors will be held on 
Tuesday, May 17, from 11:30 
to 12 noon in the Breed Me
morial Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, May 10, 1955CARNEGIE TARTAN Page 3
Tartans Maintain Record 
In 32nd Straight Track Meet
By Dick Swaney
The thinclads of Coach Bob Carman started Spring Carnival week off with a bang 
by downing the Little Presidents from W and J by an easy 96 to 35 score. The Tartans gave up 
only two firsts; both being captured by Jim Farsen, brilliant mile and two miler from Wash
ington and Jefferson. ?---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Call DayThe usual double winners 
for Carnegie were Frank 
Smith and Ward Jones; while 
Gillies, perpetual winner of 
the mile and half mile, raced 
in only the half, concentrating 
on an effort to shatter the 
half mile mark. Mai failed to beat 
the record set by Rog Coyle last 
year, missing by a narrow onetenth of a second. John Muller 
spent an easy day recuperating 
from a badly bruised knee suf
fered at Grove City the previous 
Saturday.
Dick Stofan, off to a slow start 
this year, kept in a winning way 
as he sped to an easy victory in 
the high hurdles. Stof is a 3-2 
planner from Hiram college in 
Ohio. The big lad will be guftning 
for the Tri-State title this Satur
day at Meadville.
Tri-State Crown Uncertain
When the Tartans enter the TriState championships, they will 
post a team of veterans and new
comers that has done well in dual 
meets buf lack experience in 
large competitions. The abund
ance of talent but lack of depth 
may keep the Skibos from cap
turing the Class B crown. Bill 
Bryant, a comer this year, has been 
bothered by a dislocated bone in 
the right foot and John Muller is 
still nursing a bruised knee.
Also missing from the lineup will 
be Uhl Swaney, a relay specialist 
who has been out all season with 
a broken leg.
The Tartans have gained, how
ever, three freshman who may 
well prove their mettle in the big 
one. Coach Carman is hoping 
Frank Smith, John Mihm, and Bill 
Heineke can continue their fine 
season foi n and come on to upset 
the pre-meet favorites from the 
other competing schools.
Statistics
MileFarson, WJ; L. Bryant, 
CT. Time :4.39.
440Muller, CT; Peebles,'WJ; 
Heineke, CT. Time :50.8.
100Smith CT; Drage, CT; 
Fleegle, WJ. Time :10.3.
120 HHStofan, CT; Muller, CT; 
Altwater, WJ. Time :16.9.
880Gillies, CT; L. Bryant, CT; 
Brodine, CT. Time 1:59.5.
220Smith, CT; Peebles, WJ; 
Drage, CT. Time :23.7.
Two MileFarsen, WJ; B. Bry
ant, CT. Time 10:32.9.
120 LHMihm, CT; Blackburn, 
WJ; Stofan, CT. Time :14.2.
4/5 Mile RelayJones, Heineke, 
Gillies, Muller, CT. Time 2:45.8.
Shot Jones, CT; Stitt, WJ; 
Recker, CT; 42'10.5".
High JumpHauser, CT; Swezc, 
CT; Frank, CT; 5'4".
"Colonel Smith bearing down on the tape in the 220. He also 
won the 100 yard dash and the broad jump.
Intramural Events 
In Crucial Week
Intramural softball was favored by clear skies and warm weather 
in the first week of competition. The second and final week of play 
began yesterday, with the playoffs tentatively set for May 16 and 17. 
The season was shortened considerably because of the proximity of 
finals and many teams have to#---------------------------------------------------
play three or four games this 
week.
In the Plaid League the Gradu
ates lead the league with a 2-0 
record. Close on their heels are 
the strong Kappa Sig A and 
Drek AC with 1-0 records. The 
games between the Grads and the 
Drek AC and Kappa Sig A" on 
'Wednesday and Thursday respec
tively may well decide the league 
winner.
A powerful Theta Xi team leads 
the Kiltie League with a 2-0 rec
ord, followed by the Metals Club 
with a 2-1 record. TX has already 
beaten the Metals Club and may 
well be on the way to the league 
championship. However, they will 
have to battle Sigma Nu A, 
which has no record, and ASCE, 
last years league champs.
This Week Crucial
The Okalays, an aggregation of 
nearly all freshmen from Donner 
Hall, lead the Scot League by virJavelinFrick, CT; Fetter, CT; 
Burger, WJ; 153'.
DiscusJones, CT; Stitt, WJ; 
Fetter, CT; 109'4".
Broad JumpSmith CT; Swezc, 
CT; Danielson, WJ; 19'1.25"
Pole Vault  Zuckerwar, CT; 
Howard, and Rongaus, tie, 9'1".
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone 
MUseum 2-4557; after hours MUseum 2-9430, for advertising and subscription 
rates call SChenley 1-8651. Published weekly during the school year except 
holidays and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor-in-Chief ........................................................................................................ Robert Russell
Business Manager .............................................................................................................. Vic Shiry
News Editor ..................................................................................................................... Marjo King
Sports Editor ................................................................................................................. Tom Wright
Copy Editor .................................................................................................................. Richard Fox
Features Editor .............................................................................................. Stephanie Mackay
Assistant Business ManagerMarty Ostroff. Advertising ManagerBob Sorkin. 
Circulation ManagerHarley Bernbach. ReportersEvelyn Alessio, Marilyn Casey, 
Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Joanne Babbitt, Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson, 
Carolou Fidder, Jane Moore, Lois Griffin, Sally Day, Dolores Chidester, Kay 
Melenyzer. Sports StaffJames Lacey, Dick Swaney. PhotographersBarbara Tola, 
John Russell, Don Falk, Bill Sailing. Art StaffCarolyn Copp, Don Carter, Robert 
Connell. Copy StaffEd Rogers, Jack Recker. Carol Millson. Features StaffJoe 
Szewc, Marshall Pheil. TypistsAnne Barnes, Mary Langdon. Copy Runners 
Ron Kohl, Jim Plugge. Circulation StaffAlan Hodel, Ira Levine. Advertising
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office ai 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rates
of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press, .Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., Couegt 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions Z.io 
per year.
tue of wins over Delta Tau Delta 
and Beta Sigma Rho. However, 
they have yet to meet the speedy 
Obelisk A, winners of their only 
contest to date, and a potent Phi 
Kappa team, who also copped their 
lone encounter. The race in this 
league is a three team affair with 
the deciding games this week.
Tau Delta Phi is encamped in 
first place in the Tartan League 
with a record of 2-0, having 
whipped the Clyde Street AC 
and edging the Eagles, who have 
also won two games. Also in the 
running is the always impressive 
Alpha Tau Omega A, which has 
lost one game, and Pi Kappa 
Alpha, with no record to date. 
Anything can happen in this 
league.
The CIT campus consists of 70 
acres and is located four miles 
from the business center of the 
city.
LET'S GO TO
ISA L Y S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lunches
5808 FORBES STREET
SQUIRREL HILL 
3714 FORBES STREET
OAKLAND
Three Stores in the College 
District
Main-Plant:
3380 BLVD. of the ALLIES
tContinued from page 1 ] 
ton, Carole Cox, Mary Michael 
Pollock, Joan Newman, Barbara 
Moore, Mary Langdon, Barbara 
Kerr, Barbara Hudacek, Nancy 
Fee, Sylvia Fasick, and Mary 
Tinker.
Delta Skull, junior mens hon
orary: Ben Jones, John Kestner, 
John Alexander, Norman Achilles, 
Clarence Schmidt, Dick Garlapow, 
Tom Harrison, Bill Taylor, Dick 
Aiken, Terry Sbc.rp, Bob Russell, 
Bob OBrien and Dave Clement. , 
Scimitars 
Scimitars, national sophomore 
mens honorary: Tom Allen, Neil 
Bernstein, Gene Clayton, Don 
Davis, Ken Duronio, Morgan Ed
wards, Bob Goodrich, Bob Hamil
ton, Paul Hauser, Alan Hodel, 
Marlyn Jakub, Ira Levine, Bob 
Marik, Frank Shuck, Frank Smith, 
Rodly Stephenson, Glen Theobald, 
Ken Wilkins.
Cwens, national sophomore 
women's honorary: Sarah Am
brose, Dot Chaffee, En Harriet 
Chang, Dolores Chidester,- Sally 
Day, Carolou Fidder, Margie Fos
ter, Joan Grasmick, Lois Griffin, 
Joanne Lacey, Kay Melenyzer, 
Barbara Meyers, Regina Onda, 
Martha Poor, Betty Schmidt, Syl
via Sebulsky, Barb Shannon, and 
Katy Treon.
Tau Beta Pi 
Tau Beta Pi, national engineer
ing honorary: Larry Andersen,
Walter Capp, Bernard Bloch, John 
Sheehan, Woodward Carter, Law
rence Kronenberger, Donald Gross, 
Ted Hatch, Philip Gresh, Paul 
Lang, Bob Engelmore, and Bob
Lindsay.Alpha Phi Omega, service fra
ternity: Pat Clark, Bill Darby, 
Tom Gouger, Dick Hartman.
Claymore Clan, mens dormitory 
hortorary: Les Bryant, William
Carr, Luis de la Macorra, Joseph 
Early, Fred Geil, Tom Gouger, 
Rck Hartman, Bob Hertz, Carl 
Jones, John Joslin, Doi Lazarchik, William Licht, Victor Nel
son, John Russell, and Joe Vis
conti.
Pi Delta Epsilon
Pi Delta Epsilon, national jour
nalistic honorary fraternity: Eve
lyn Alessio, Kay, Egan, Marjo 
King, Joel Levinson, Stephanie 
Mackay, Patricia Mitchell, Barb 
Moore, Joan Newman, Jack Reck
er, Robert Russell, Terry Sharp, 
Vic Shiry, Mary Tinker, Tom 
Wright.Scabbard and Blade, advanced 
ROTC honorary: David Chabala, 
Paul Berger, Irwin Wakeley, Rob
ert Campbell.Tau Sigma Delta, architecture 
and painting and design honorary: 
Margaret Cannell, Ronald Cassetti, 
Sylvester Damianos, Stuart Knoop, 
Robert Smith, Robert Worsing, 
William Bartoli, Donnf Gibson, 
Melvin Livinson, Mary Tinker, 
Arnold Wasserman, Harvey Breverman, and Joan Newman.
Calls were also made by Persh
ing Riles and Phi Kappa Phi.
Dinner
There will be a dinner for 
all Morewood Gardens floor 
chairmen today at 5:45 p.m. 
in the Blue Room of the dorm
itory.
A Message For Mechanical Engineering Graduates
We wish to interview all Mechanical Graduates 
who have an interest in developing Special Ap
titudes for careers in Nuclear Energy Installa
tions. Write for interview.
BAKER, SMITH & CO.. Inc.
Chrysler Building, 405 Lexington Ave., N. Y. 17, N. Y. 
Engineers  Fabricators  Contractors for 98 Years
5 m iloolmn 
tlies a day 
at hmie, at wmrk 
mr whloe at poay
Theres 
nothing 
like a
L BRIGHT, RIGHT TASTE 
tangy, bracing, ever-fresh.
2. FAST REFRESHMENT... 
a. bit of quick energy for a 
wholesome little lift.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY Of THE COCA-COIA COMPANY Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMP ANT Or PITTSBURGH 
5128 Center Avenue tltlani tI  registered trademark.O IMS, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, May 10, 1955
ES Summer SessionBanquet To Unite 
Newman Evening 
And Day Groups
All students who expect to register for evening summer courses, 
which run from June 13 to August 6, 1955, are requested to inform 
the registrar of evening classes, since permits to register will be 
mailed prior to the evening of registration. Registration will be 
held on Monday evening, June 13* between 7:00 and 9:00 in the 
Exhibition Room, first floor of the Fine Arts Building. Students reg
istered during 1954-1955 should present their original registration 
receipt cards.
The following schedule of classes goes into effect on Tuesday 
evening, June 14. Subjects with less than ten registrants may be 
withdrawn.
Students following a degree program should schedule one of the 
following subjects in accordance with information on pages 32-65 
of the 1954-56 Bulletin of Evening Classes: C109, C110, C401, C402, 
C501, S231, E201, E202, E571, E572.
FEES 212 Trigonometry (8) MWF 7:30-9:30 PH 211 $51.20
S 214 Calculus 1 (8) MWF 7:30-9:30 PH 209 51.20
S 215 Calculus II (8) MWF 7:30-9:30 PH 215 51.20
S 216 Calculus III (8t MWF 7:30-9:30 PH 208 51.20
S 231 Statics (9) MWF 7:30-9:30 PH 210 57.60S 232 Dynamics (9) MWF 7:30-9:30 PH 319A 57.60
S 233 Str. of Materials (9) MWF 7:30-9:30 PH 115 57.60
E 201 Surveying (9) MWF 6:30-9:30 PH 23-B. 23-D .57.60
E 202 Surveying (9) MWF 6:30-9:30 PH 23-B, 23-D 57.60
E 571 Draw. & Dse. Geom. I (9) MWF 6:30-10:30 AH 327B. 331 57.60
E 572 Draw. & Desc. Geom. II (9) MWF 6:30-10:30 AH 327B, 331 57.60
C 109 English Composition (9) MWF 7:30-9:30 AH 237-A 49.50
C 110 English Composition (9) MWF 7:30-9:30 AH 235-B 49.50
C 401 Economics I (9) MTh 7:00-10:00 AH 132E 49.50
C 402 Economics II (9) TuF 7:00-10:00 AH 132E 49.50
C 501 Intro. Psychology (9) MWF 7:30-9:20 AH 336B 49.50
During the past few weeks, plans 
have been formulated to make 
this years Newman Club Banquet 
more successful than any in pre
vious years. The uniqueness of 
this years banquet lies in the fact 
that it will be co-sponsored by day 
school and evening school clubs. 
Members feel that such an ar
rangement will be advantageous 
towards closer - relationship be
tween the two groups.
Members of the planning com
mittee are: Evening schoolJohn 
Van Holt, Chuck Labee, Chester 
Tempalski Bill Groll, Edna Thorwart, Mike McGinnis, Dolores 
Neff, Ed Daly, Kathy Galligan, 
and Bill Bond; Day schoolPaul 
Sieffert, Mary Ann LeDonne, and 
John Senko.
The site, date, and time for the 
gala affair are: Carnegie Union, 
Sunday evening, May 15, at 6:00 
p.m. Father Grundler will be the 
guest speaker. There will be in
stallation of new officers during 
the evening.
As soon as the last spoonful of 
strawberry shortcake has disap
peared, a social will be held. 
Therell be dancing, cards, ping 
pong, singing or just talk.
Sorority Relay
Susie Hayes of the winning Kappas shown directing some hot 
air on a ping pong ball during that particular contest.
Events
[Continued from page 1] 
surrounding the suspended plank 
near the Carnegie Union.
The PiKAs made the Kappa 
Sigs fight hard for the big first 
place trophy and captured the 
second place trophy for their 
efforts. The Sigma Nu B and 
Phi Kap teams battled against the 
two winners in the semifinals. The 
rule that a man who knocks his 
opponent off the plank must re
main on the plank for four 
seconds afterwards caused several 
otherwise victors to lose their 
points.
This event, which made its 
debut last year, seemed to delight 
the large audience. Even the few 
who got splashed along with the 
participants agreed that it was 
good fun!
Faculty Egg Throw
On the steps of Fine Arts, the 
beloved, cherished event of egg 
tossing was held on Friday after
noon amidst a lusty throng of 
bloodthirsty rooters. For the 
second straight year, the strongarmed psychologists captured the 
trophy. Gilmer and Daily man
aged to lob an egg some 103' 4" 
before breaking their third one. 
This feat eclipsed their record of 
last year by some 17 feet. A few 
spectators got splattered with un
shelled egg, but the casualties 
were not as high as in the plank 
jousting.
Tartan
The issue next week will 
conclude the forty-eighth suc
cessful year of TARTAN oper
ations. Any organizations 
wishing to have notices or an
nouncements published in the 
TARTAN before the end of the 
semester should drop them in 
intraschool mail sometimes 
before Friday night. The first 
issue next semester will ap
pear on September 20.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
 TRY US FIRST 
Oakland Hardware
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
1216 Wood Run Ave.
ff Brighton
Dancing Friday and Saturday 
Jack Mahon and Orchestra
Included in CITs enrollment 
are approximately 350 graduate 
students.
A WHOLE CABOODLE OF LUCKY DROODLES
WHATS THIS?
For solution see paragraph below.
SPAGHETTI SERVED BY NEAT WAITER
Pamela Schroeck 
University of Connecticut
PIG WHO WASHED HIS TAIL AND CANT DO A THING WITH IT
Maurice Sapiro 
U. of RochesterThe Rivals
[Continued from page 1] 
Sound technician is Vincent 
Romeo.
He: ding the painting depart
ment is Lloyd Burlingame; with 
assistants Mary Sue Gordon, Bar
bara Conan, Gary Smith, Donald 
Hart, T. Brooke Howard, William 
Gray, and Joan Kugell. Property 
manager is William MacDonald; 
assisted by Shirley Mendonca, 
Dorothy Walsh, Irene Baird, San
dra Boikan, Ursula Arnold, Claire 
Teitel, John Conboy, Linda Effrat, 
Clyde Sharp, LeRoy Miller, Jud
ith Dunkle, Donna Krochmal, and 
Janice Meshkoff.
Also included in the production 
staff are costume crew head Sue 
Spector, house manager Jack 
Shaheen, and head ushers Donna 
Krochmal and Janice Meshkoff.
A WONDERFUL SLANT on smoking! Youll find it in 
the Droodle above, titled: Tourist enjoying bettertasting Lucky Strike while leaning against tower of 
Pisa. If your own inclination is toward better taste, 
join the many college smokers who prefer Luckies.__ %From any angle, Luckies taste better. They taste 
better, first of all, because Lucky Strike means fine 
tobacco. Then that tobacco is toasted to taste better. 
Its Toastedthe famous Lucky Strike process 
tones up Luckies light, good-tasting tobacco to make 
it taste even better. Little wonder that Luckies tower 
above all other brands in college popularity!
DRQODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
AMMUNITION FOR SIX-SHOOTER
C. J. Grandmaison U. of New Hampshire
PENNILESS WORM TRYING TO MAKE ENDS MEET
Lester Jackson 
Duquesne University
Correction
It was incorrectly stated in 
an article last week that the 
entertainment for the Engi
neers Banquet had been 
picked by Ray Daly. This 
should have read: Ray Klimas, 
Andy Spisak, and Ed Daly.OLD COMB
Kenneth Black 
Stanford University
~Bettea toste lucJzies..
UICKIES 
TASTE BETTER
Extremely High Discounts 
and Trade In Allowances
Arranged For Carnegie Tech
Students and 
Faculty Members
On New 1955 Ford Automobiles 
and Used Cars of Every Type 
Contact Wally Donoghue 
103 Welch Hall  Box 337 CIT 
MU 3-0242
COLLEGE SMOKERS 
PREFER LUCKIES!
Luckies lead all other brands in 
collegesand by a wide marginaccording to an exhaustive, coastto-coast college survey. The No. 
1 reason: Luckies taste better.CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER! f
iS&rwuecMAMERICAS LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIOAKETTESPRODUCT OF
