The Tartan
Volume 82, Issue 22Carnegie Mellon UniversityApril 12,1988
INSIDE
FEATURES................Page 15
Profile on Cliffe, Collegiate Calendars 
*89, & Glickstein
SPORTS......................Page 24
Tennis Team wins 2 of 1st 3 matches & 
Pirates spring training special
CFA Dean Midani plans to step down next year
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor
Akram Midani announced Friday that the 
1988-89 school year will be his last as Dean of 
the College of Fine Arts. He will take a leave 
of absence, and then return to CFA as a full
time faculty member in 1990.
Midani submitted his request to resign to 
President Richard Cyert on February 5. He 
took office in July 1972.
A search committee will look for a replace
ment next year, according to Provost Angel 
Jordan.
During his leave of absence, Midani will 
complete a book on the relationships among 
the arts, which he has been working on for 
some time.
In a memo to the University community 
Midani stated, Most of the challenges facing 
the University have been met and thus we have 
now a great community of artists and scholars
making a significant contribution to the cul
tural and scientific life of the nation. I accepted 
this position [in 1972] with a sense of pride. I 
will be moving back to the faculty ranks with 
the same pride and satisfaction.
Midani joined Carnegie Mellon as a member 
of the faculty in the Department of Drama in 
1965, where he taught dramatic literature and 
theater aesthetics. Prior to 1965, he had two si
multaneous careers: as a diplomat attached to 
the United Nations in New York, and as a 
critic, playwright, and actor. He resigned his 
commission as First Secretary of the Syrian 
Mission in 1965. He has published two short 
plays and a book of American drama. He has 
written and acted in numerous plays.
Of Syrian and Algerian parentage, and Egyp
tian and American upbringing, he is a graduate 
of the High Institute of Dramatic Arts in Cairo, 
Egypt and New York University.
Midani was unavailable for comment.
photo by Jeff Rosenblum
On the Cut Saturday six alternative bands played in NewFest 88. Though the 
concert started three hours late, a large crowd was present See page D3.
University designates new official travel agent
By CARLOS FRANCO
Tartan Stajfwriter 
American Express Business Travel Services 
will replace the four travel agencies that Car
negie Mellon is currently using to handle its 
six million dollar annual transportation needs.
There are currently four official CMU travel 
agents: World-Wise Travel Service, Forbes 
Travel Services, Peoples Travel Agency, and 
University Travel Service. World-Wise 
serves as the primary agent.
The designation of official travel agent al
lows the firm to bill the University for tickets 
purchased by the faculty.
On June 26, 1987, CMU sent a request for 
proposals to various travel agencies. Accord
ing to a memo sent from Vice President of 
Business Affairs Fred Rogers to the members
of the Faculty Senate on December 22, it was 
felt that the University would benefit from 
limiting its business to one agency.
The proposals were then evaluated by a 
committee of college and administrative rep
resentatives. The evaluations showed Ameri
can Express and Rosenbluth Travel Agency, 
Inc. as the highest rated agencies. These two 
agencies were requested to make oral presen
tations to the committee on November 14.
Following the oral presentation and a tour of 
the American Express Travel Center in Pitts
burgh, the committee recommended Ameri
can Express. The committee felt that Ameri
can Express had the highest level of service to 
offer the Universiy.
In its proposal, American Express offered 
the University American Express cards for
Luncheon for seniors 
scheduled for May 12
By ERIC W. LEULIETTE
Tartan News Editor 
A Senior Banquet organized by students 
and funded by President Cyert will be held 
on Tuesday, May 12, under the tent as part 
of graduation ceremonies. Seniors who 
graduated or will graduate between De
cember 198? and December 1988 will be 
invited to the event.
Senior Send-off will be a semi-formal 
buffet-style luncheon. Senior Jeanne Sulli
van, who is helping to organize the event, 
stated that it will be classy, with great food 
and general seating.... [Its] a nice gift from 
President Cyert for the seniors to enjoy. 
President of Student Government Andy 
Robitshek formed a committee to organize 
the event. The committee included Sulli
van, Heather Jeans, and Mike Gordon. 
Theyve been working hard and they de
serve a lot of credit for it, commented 
Robitshek.
In the past the Senior Banquet had been
held by Alumni Relations, but after four 
years of conduct problems the Alumni 
Executive Board and the Alumni Affairs 
Division of the Board of Trustees decided 
to cancel the banquet for the class of 1988.
Seniors who attended the banquet had 
been getting drunk and rowdy during the 
event, which had been held off campus be
cause no on-campus location was large 
enough. Sullivan believes that the formal 
nature of the event caused the rowdiness. 
She hopes the semi-formal luncheon this 
year will avoid many of these problems.
The informal Zero Year Reunion, at 
which alcohol is served, has avoided alco
hol-related problems. It will be held the day 
following the luncheon.
The organizers of the event stress that 
they still have many details to take care of 
before May 12. We need some help from 
students. We have lots of things left to do, 
some as simple as collecting tickets," said 
Sullivan.
faculty members free of the annual fee. They 
also presented a revenue incentive proposal. In 
this program, Carnegie Mellon could receive a 
certain percentage of the revenue earned by 
American Express through the purchase of 
airplane tickets.
The revenue incentive was, however, waived 
later in a meeting with an American Express 
representative. It was decided at this meeting 
that instead of the revenue incentive, Ameri
can Express would pay all the expenses of their 
proposed program.
The American Express representatives also 
agreed to establish two campus offices. One 
will be located to serve Mellon Institute and 
SEI and the other will be located to serve the 
campus community. American Express 
agreed to staff these offices during the normal 
University office hours of 8 am to 5 pm.
In January, Doris Formica, President of 
World-Wise, after hearing rumors that WorldWise was to be replaced, asked Director of 
Purchasing Richard English if her firm was to 
be maintained as the primary travel agency. 
English reportedly responded that American 
Express was to reccive the contract, though no 
contracts had yet been signed.
Formica met with Fred Rogers and English 
on March 4 to discuss her concerns for her 
business and make plans for the switch over to 
American Express. At that time Rogers and 
English could give her no timetable as to when 
American Express would begin its service and 
World-Wises would end.
Rogers assured Formica by letter on March
10 that within two weeks he would be able to 
propose something more specific in regard to 
the transition from World-Wise to American 
Express.
On March 29, when Formica entered her oncampus office, she encountered a Bell tele
continued on page 7
Committee increases textbook 
discount, extends store hours
By LILLEY MANSOUR 
Tartan Staffwriter
The Retail Stores Student Advisory Com
mittee, formed by President of Student Gov
ernment Andy Robitshek, has been pushing 
for several changes in campus stores. The 
committee has already obtained promises 
from the administration to increase the dis
count on textbooks and to extend hours at 
Entropy.
Discounts on textbooks in the bookstore are 
set to increase next year from the present ten 
percent to 15 percent with a tentatively 
planned increase the year after of another five 
percent. If this schedule is followed, books 
will be sold at cost the year after that.
Entropy is set to extend its hours until 3 am 
Monday through Friday. President Cyert has 
agreed to fund this change, adding that if 
Entropy makes a profit as a result, he would be 
reimbursed. The store was supposed to begin 
its extended hours after spring break on a trial 
basis until the end of the semester, but there 
have been some problems.
Because the store cannot employ student 
managers during its extended hours, other 
employees have been hired. However, Lyn 
Vallori, who was in charge of supervising 
Entropy, has recently resigned, which may 
have caused the delay in implementing the ex
tended hours.
Another change brought about by the com
mittee, chaired by Russ Seligman, is the place
ment of suggestion boxes in all the stores.
Recent proposals include better designs for 
CMU T-shirts and sweatshirts. Trish 
DiMarco, a student on the committee, plans to 
work with the design department and the 
bookstore to set up a contest for students in 
which they submit designs forjudging. Exact 
details are still being discussed.
Oscar Mayer, Director of Campus Operation 
andAuxiliary Services, is pushing to curtail 
the sale of cigarettes on campus. He plans to 
achieve this by removing most of the vending 
machines on campus, eliminating the sale of 
cigarettes in the Co-op, and allowing only the 
sale of cartons in Entropy.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanApril 12,1988
^Mr/ MW VII
World
News
Students in Honduras 
burn U.S. Embassy
TEGUCIGALPA, Honduras (AP) Stu
dents stormed two U.S. Embassy annex build
ings and set them ablaze before they were 
dispersed with bullets, beatings, and tear gas. 
At least five demonstrators were killed and 10 
wounded.
An Embassy spokesman reported extensive 
damage from Thursday nights attack, but said 
no U.S. citizens were injured.
Police said the crowd of more than 1,000 
university students also set fire to about 25 
automobiles belonging to embassy personnel 
that were parked near the annex complex.
The students were protesting last weeks 
forced extradition of an alleged drug trafficker 
suspected of involvement in the killing of a 
U.S. drug agent. They also voiced anger at 
President Reagans dispatch of additional 
American troops to Honduras last month.
Private Honduran guards posted at the em
bassy fired shots and lobbed tear gas grenades 
at the demonstrators from inside the main 
embassy building across the street from the 
annex buildings, said police sources, who 
spoke on condition of anonymity.
But Michael OBrien, the Embassy spokes
man, said neither U.S. Marine guards nor 
Honduran guards stationed at the embassy 
complex took violent action against the pro
testers. He said Honduran riot police had fired 
on the crowd.
All the contents of two floors of a four-story 
annex building, housing U.S. Information 
Agency offices, were destroyed by the blaze.
Honduras declares 
states of emergency
TEGUCIGALPA (AP)  President Jose 
Azona Hoyo declared a state of emergency 
Friday and suspended constitutional guaran
tees for 15 days in the countrys two major 
cities after new anti-U.S. riots broke out.
An announcement from the presidential 
press office said guarantees, including the 
right to hold street demonstrations, were sus
pended in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula, 
120 miles north of here.
The president took action shortly after noon 
Friday as thousands of students abandoned 
classes and took to the streets, smashing shop 
windows and overturning cars to protest the 
forced deportation to the U.S. of a Honduran 
suspected of drug trafficking.
According to the announcement, the state of
emergency gives police and security agencies 
wide powers to search premises, make arrests 
and hold people without trial in the two cities. 
It also empowers police to restrict travel.
Argentine union calls 
for general strike
BUENOS AIRES (DJ)  The General Con
federation of Labor, Argentinas largest union 
with four million members, has set a 24-hour 
nationwide strike for Thursday to protest the 
economic policies of the present administra
tion.
The Confederation is controlled by the oppo
sition Peronist Party.
Saul Ubaldini, head of the General Confed
eration of Labor, said the strike will be held in 
solidarity with 505,000 public school teachers 
across Argentina who have been on strike 
since March 14 in demand of a minimum 
monthly salary of about $118.
Soviets, Afghans reach 
settlement for pullout
MOSCOW (AP)  The Soviet Union and 
Afghanistan said they had solved all problems 
blocking a settlement in the Afghan war. 
Moscow said it intended to begin removing its 
troops from Afghanistan next month.
But in Geneva, the U.N. mediator in the 
Afghanistan peace talks indicated that major 
differences remain. Pakistans president, 
however, said an agreement was ready to be 
signed.
Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev and 
Afghan leader Najib said in a joint statement 
issued after a meeting in the Soviet city of 
Tashkent that the troop withdrawal would start 
May 15 if the Geneva negotiations are suc
cessful in the shortest period.
The statement didnt mention the issue of 
foreign aid to the warring parties, which is 
seen as the main obstacle in reaching an ac
cord.
The Gorbachev-Najib statement, carried by 
the official news agency Tass, did not clarify 
how much time the two sides would allow for 
conclusion of a Geneva accord before their 
offer of a May 15 pullout expires.
Shultz continues 
Mideast peace efforts
JERUSALEM (AP)  Secretary of State 
George Shultz asserted that his Middle East 
peace initiative was intact and alive despite 
his failure to bridge the gap between Israeli 
and Arab leaders.
In a statement to reporters moments before 
he left Israel for Egypt, Shultz said he made 
some progress but the differences havent 
been substantially narrowed.
Postal Business and Communication Services
AM1L BOXES ETC. U4
MAILBOXES ETC. can help you get rid of those 
not enough time, too much to do, BLUES! 
We will:
 Word Process Reports Etc.  Copy Resumes & Transcripts
 Cover & Bind Term Papers  Laminate Cards & Awards
 Passport Photos  Keys  Message Service
 Notarized Documents  Supply Business Cards
 Pack & Ship Everything Home
 Private Mailbox Rental  Suite Address24 Hour Access
414 South Craig Street 687-6100
Theres no masking the deep-seated ob
stacles to peace, Shultz said at Israels Ben 
Gurion Airport. Emotions are deeply felt, 
principles are proudly held, great traditions, 
cultures, and rights are involved...but with a 
serious commitment to work, it can happen. 
Shultz made an emotional appeal to Israeli 
and Arab leaders to say yes to his peace 
initiative, which he pledged to continue de
spite the difficulties.
U.S. Marines head for 
exercises in Panama
EL TORO MARINE AIR STATION, Calif. 
(AP)  Clutching sack lunches along with 
their rifles and machine guns, 290 Marines 
boarded giant cargo jets and flew to Panama 
Friday for jungle training exercises.
The exercise is unrelated to a U.S. military 
buildup prompted by Panamas current politi
cal turmoil, said Lt. Gene Browne, a Camp 
Pendleton spokesman.
Five hundred more Marines leave this week 
for the training, he said.
The last of 1,300 other U.S. troops arrived 
Thursday at Howard Air Force Base outside 
Panama City, completing a buildup meant to 
provide greater security for the Panama Canal, 
American installations and U.S. citizens.
Meese replaces top 
Justice Dept, officials
WASHINGTON (AP)  Attorney General 
Edwin Meese III named John Shepherd, a 
former president of the American Bar Asso
ciation, as deputy attorney general, the No. 2 
post in the Department of Justice.
Meese also named Francis A. Keating II, 
assistant Treasury secretary for enforcement, 
to the No. 3 job, that of associate attorney 
general.
Meese made the announcement after a Phila
delphia lawyer and a Labor Department offi
cial turned down the important vacancies. He 
still has not named a new assistant attorney 
general in charge of the criminal division.
The nominations of Shepherd and Keating 
will require Senate confirmation.
Lyn Nofziger sentenced 
to 90 days in jail
WASHINGTON (AP)  Lyn Nofziger, 
President Reagans former political director, 
was sentenced to 90 days in prison Friday and
fined $30,000 for illegally lobbying admini
stration officials after he left the White House.
U.S. District Judge Thomas Flannery said 
Nofziger could remain free pending an appeal 
of his three felony convictions of contacting 
former colleagues on behalf of private clients 
within a year of leaving President Reagans 
staff.
Nofziger could have been sentenced to two 
years on each of the three counts. The $30,000 
fine was the maximum cumulative fine the f, 
judge could have assessed.
Reagan signs accord to 
protect ozone layer
SANTA BARBARA, Calif (DJ)  Presiv 
dent Reagan signed the Montreal protocol on 
substances that deplete the ozone layer. _
This protocol would go into effect next Janu
ary if at least 11 nations representing twothirds of worldwide consumption of chlorofluorocarbons and halons ratify the agree
ment.
The protocol, negotiated under the United 
Nations, requires signatory countries to re
duce production and consumption of major 
ozone-depleting chemicals by 50 percent by ^ 
1999.
Penn State black 
students stage a sit-in
STATE COLLEGE  The cancellation of a 
meeting to discuss minority issues prompted 
over 150 Penn State University students to 
stage a sit-in Friday. The students, most of 
them black, vowed to resist a court order to 
vacate the telecommunications building they  
occupied.
The students contended that they would 
remain in the building until they are allowed to 
meet with Penn State officials or are arrested. 
Penn State President Bryce Jordan had agreed 
early last week to set up a meeting after a small 
sit-in outside his office.
Jordan skipped the meeting and sent two 
administrators instead. This prompted stu^ 
dents to march from the meeting site to the 
telecommunications building. The students 
occupied the buildings first and second floors 
and have refused to leave.
News Briefs appear courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh............................................................................. 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection..................................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Ald......................................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
V

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage 3
Dorm storming policy proposed'Raid case sent back to magistrate
By JONATHAN LEVY
Tartan Staffwriter 
On Monday, March 21, a Common Pleas 
Court appeal hearing was held for the Carne
gie Mellon students arrested for underage 
drinking in last Novembers Liquor Control 
Board (LCB) raid at Pi Kappa Alpha and Delta
* Tau Delta fraternities.
The students are being represented by John 
Doherty of the law firm Manifesto, Doherty, 
and Donahoe. According Doherty, the District 
Attorney offered a proffer which he accepted. 
A proffer is a legal procedure where, rather 
than having witnesses testify, a lawyer simply 
tells the judge what his witnesses would say if 
they were called to the stand.
* The issue in question at the hearing was 
whether those arrested were read their rights 
before being questioned by the police. The 
District Attorney said that his witnesses, the 
LCB officers and policemen involved in the
raid, were divided into three groups over 
whether the students arrested were read their 
rights. One group thought it was done en mass 
on the bus taking those arrested to the Public 
Safety Building. A second group thought the 
students were read their rights en mass after 
they arrived. The third group claimed that the 
rights were not read at all.
After hearing the proffer, the judge decided 
to send the case back to the magistrate who 
heard the cases on the night of the arrrest. He 
will decide the issue of when, if ever, the rights 
were read. According to Doherty, the District 
Attorney can appeal the decision to the Com
monwealth or Superior Court who could send 
the case back to the Common Pleas level.
Students who wish to do so are allowed to 
perform their community service at home over 
the summer if they get written certification 
that they have completed the required fifteen 
hours.
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senator Allen Greenberg proposed a 
new policy for dorm storming at last weeks 
Student Senate meeting. The proposal would 
allow individuals and student as well as other 
organizations to canvass the dormitories if 
they register with the Housing Office.
Permits issued by Housing would be given 
for two week periods and be valid only for 
specific times of the week. The purpose of the 
proposal would be to provide a uniform policy 
so student organizations could dorm storm 
as well as fraternities.
It allows for a more consistent policy, said 
Greenberg, right now we only have fraterni
ties that are allowed to go door to door. The 
resolution, if passed, would be sent to CMU 
Housing Office and Student Dormitory Coun
cil.
SDC Housing Committee Chairman Peter 
Tilem attended the Student Senate meeting.
He claimed that when the idea first came up the 
council discussed the proposal and over
whelmingly the council felt that this was not 
something that the students wanted. Accord
ing to Tilem, dorm storming by the fraterni
ties does not cause a problem since it is very 
limited (mostly to freshmen) and lasts for a 
short time.
Senator Dustin Frazier was concerned that 
student organizations would be allowed to 
dorm storm any time during the semester, 
barring exams. Greenberg supported the pro
posal stating student organizations cant put 
all of their efforts into one rush because 
some clubs have issues that come up at differ
ent times of the year. He continued saying that 
if organizations were given permission, it 
wouldnt be too frequent.
Tilem added that student groups already 
have adequate access to students. They have 
it in front of the academic buildings, in Skibo,
continued on page 7
Proposed University Policy on Smoking
The anti-smoking ordinance passed by Pittsburgh council became effective April 9. The 
ordinance requires that by July the University must develop a policy. The following is a draft 
of the policy that the Smoking Policy Task Force has written. Comments on the policy can 
be sent to Pete Collopy, Director of the Environmental Health and Safety Office, at MI 852 
or PC1M@TE.
Tobacco smoke, whether inhaled directly by a tobacco smoker, or indirectly by a person in 
the general vicinity of a smoker, is considered to be a danger to ones health. Carnegie Mellon 
University has a vital interest in maintaining a healthy and safe environment for its students, 
faculty, staff and visitors, while responding sympathetically to individual needs. Consistent 
with these concerns, and in response to the City of Pittsburgh ordinance prohibiting smoking 
(Pittsburgh Code Title Six, Article 1, Chapter 617), the following policy has been established 
to restrict smoking in some areas and to provide procedures for accommodating the 
preferences of both smokers and non-smokers.
Policy
It is the policy of Carnegie Mellon University to provide smoke free areas for students, 
faculty, staff and visitors within existing facilities to the maximum extent possible. Ulti
mately, the University recognized that where the needs of persons who smoke and the need 
of non-smokers to breathe smoke-free air conflict, the need to have smoke-free air shall have 
priority.
Definition
Smoking  Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe, or 
other combustible substance in any manner or in any form
Prohibited Areas  Public spaces
Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed spaces at Carnegie Mellon, including but not limited 
to:
 elevators
 shuttle buses and escort vehicles
 restrooms
 lobbies in all residential and non-residential buildings
 hallways and aisles, except in private residential areas of student residences or in 
designated hallways of sports facilities and performance theaters
 all Carnegie Mellon retail stores including but not limited to the bookstore, art store, Co
op store, Entropy and the PC store, except in store areas which are not open to the public
 all reception and waiting areas, including waiting lines such as in the Cashiers office and 
the Post Office
 waiting room and hallways of the Carnegie Mellon Student Health/Counseling and 
Student Development Center
 all libraries, galleries, lecture halls, classrooms, conference rooms, auditoriums and 
theaters not open to the sky
 exercise facilities, gym facilities and any other enclosed sport arena, except in designated 
hallways
 lounges, unless specifically designated as smoking areas
 laboratories, work shops, and storerooms, studios where any paint or chemical is used, and 
all other designated areas where smoking is unacceptable for safety reasons
 stairwells.
Work Areas
Non-smoking areas and smoking areas may be designated as follows:
Any person shall have the right to designate his or her work area as a nonsmoking area and 
to post an appropriate sign or signs provided by the university.
A person may designate his or her fully enclosed private office (i.e. private office with floor 
to ceiling walls) as a nonsmoking area or a smoking area provided that it is feasible to do so 
without affecting other smoke free locations in the immediate area or in connected areas.
Any enclosed work area (i.e. work area with floor to ceiling walls) occupied by more than 
one person may be designated as a smoking area only if such area is occupied exclusively by
smokers and provided that it is feasible to do so without affecting other smoke free locations 
in the immediate area or in connected areas.
Persons working in designated smoking areas (as specified above) must honor the wishes 
of nonsmoking visitors to that particular work area.
Dining Areas
For all dining areas seating 50 or more persons, currently including but not limited to Salads 
Plus, The Tartan Grill, The Faculty Dining Club, The College Club Dining Room, Morewood 
Dining Room, and Kiltie Cafe:
A non smoking section of at least 20% of the seating capacity will be available and 
conspicuously marked by a posted sign or signs
Every person who desires to be seated in a non-smoking area will be so seated
The manager or other person who controls or manages the dining area will request persons 
smoking in designated nonsmoking areas to stop smoking or to move to an area designated 
for smoking
Compliance
Cooperation and consideration between smoker and non-smoker are necessary to assure the 
successful implementation of the policy. All members of the Carnegie Mellon University 
community are responsible for observing the provisions of this policy on smoking and for 
requesting that other people comply.
Any question or concerns regarding the implementation of this policy should be referred to 
the Department Head or their representative for resolution. Department Heads or their rep
resentatives are responsible for informing persons violating this policy of the relevant 
provisions of the policy, and where necessary to request persons smoking in nonsmoking 
areas to stop smoking.
In addition, any department, division, college or institute may further designate their entire 
area as a nonsmoking area, or otherwise establish their own procedures provided that such 
procedures are not in conflict with this policy.
The following offices are available to answer questions about this policy:
Questions on:
Effect on students
Effect on faculty 
Effect on staff
Contact:
Donna Morosky 
Student Affairs
Assistant Provosts Office
Jill Diskin
Employment Manager 
or
Lisa Wiedman 
Personnel Director
A public forum on the proposed 
smoking policy will be held on Fri
day April 22, 1988, from 
11:30 am to 1:30 pm in 
the Wherrett Room.
Extension:
x2075
x2046
x8709

---------------------------------------------------

Bslk At^mm 
Applimmm Pot
I
Am Now Mmms Tutem
APPLICATIONS ARE AUAILABLE AT ANV 
SERUICE DESK OR IN THE HOUSING OFFICE IN
M0REID00D GARDENS
Work Study Required
1
canneg ie-mel I on
thunsday
BUGGY DESIGN COMPETITION 
9 am to 3 pm in the Gymnasium
A display of all participating 
buggies and judging of design 
entries. Display is open to the 
public.
t,
I
Saturday
FINALS AND ALUMNI RACES 
8 am on Tech and Frew Streets
Top six womens and top 10 
men's teams will compete in the 
finals. Alumni heats will also be 
run.
fniday
PRELIMINARY RACES 
7 am on Tech and Frew Streets
Women's and Mens preliminary 
heats. Womens races begin at 7 
am with Men's immediately 
following.
<
Celebrate Tradition
With a
Balfour Class Ring!
For decades a Carnegie Tech or Carnegie Mellon 
University graduate was easily recognized 
by the classic design of the ring he or she wore.
As a graduate of Carnegie Mellon University 
or Carnegie Institute of Technology, you will 
again be able to enjoy this rich tradition of recognition
April 13 - 15 th 
Wednesday - Friday 
10-4 
Baker Hall
J
j
J

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage 5
Presidential candidates express their views
The opportunity for improving Carnegie 
Mellon University is present now as it has 
never been before! What we need is a 
forceful president with a fresh outlook to 
maximize this potential.
Among other things, our president 
should: ensure speedy and effective im
plementation of the Quality of Life recom
mendations, maximize activities fees by 
providing better guidelines and accounta
bility in funding, increase communication 
between students and Senate, students and 
administration, between organizations, 
and between colleges and much more.
The proper perspective must be brought 
to the presidency in order to realize this 
campus potential. I feel I can provide this 
perspective and needed leadership.Fred GoffAndy Robitshek
As Student Government President. I was 
elected to work for the student body. I ac
complished:
 Textbook price cut, from 10% to 15% 
for next year
 Student Advisory Council coordination 
with active support in every college
 Saved Senior Banquet, which will now 
be on Thursday, May 12th, a formal lunch 
sponsored by President Cyert.
 and many other projects
Next year 1 plan to work on:
 Faculty Advisory system
 Registration process
 Coordination of student clubs and or
ganizations, especially in event program
ming
 Implementation of some quality of life 
suggestions
 Better student representation in new 
University Center
Please vote  I would appreciate your 
support.
Because the presidential debate was 
cancelled, written questions were submitted to 
the two candidates from student organiza
tions. Their answers appear here in full.
Q.What do you think is the most important 
personal quality for a president?
Robitshek: The most important quality for a 
student government president is one of being 
able to work with others.
He will serve on many committees including 
Faculty Senate, the Calendar Committee, the 
Presidents Student Advisory Committee, and 
many other committees.
I feel I have been able to work well with other 
students, faculty members, and administrators 
to get many projects done on campus. The 
Student Advisory Council proposal I wrote 
required meeting with the Provost, the Chair
man of Faculty Senate, the Dean of Student 
Affairs, and many others. I have a great deal of 
experience working with others.
Outside of my presidential experience I 
worked with others as a member of SAMS, 
also as a past Tartan Business Manager, and 
also when I was a Student Senator.
I worked with many different clubs and 
organizations and feel that I have shown the 
skill to work with others.
Goff: Open-mindedness is the most impor
tant quality for a president to maintain. It is 
crucial in maximizing solutions to problems/ 
issues, and is essential for fair representation 
of a broad constituency.
The President of Student Government, par
ticularly, must maintain an open mind. I will 
be representing each of the colleges with their 
vastly different viewpoints. In order to be a 
good leader, I must be open to all ideas and 
suggestions from each of these views.
Q: If you are elected President, what would
you do to insure that the University Center 
meets the student bodys needs? The Univer
sity Centers first priority should be to serve 
students, but no one has taken the leadership 
role to insure that it fulfills this commitment. 
Would you be willing to provide that leader
ship? If so, what would you do?
Robitshek: To make sure the University 
Center meets the students needs, I will have 
students from all organizations meet with the 
architects while the design is being finished. 
This way students will have an input in the 
development of the center all along the design 
process.
I can provide this leadership by working with 
the leaders of the campus organizations. I have 
already worked with them on the President s
Student Advisory Council and could easily get 
this group to help keep the University Center 
a place for students. I have provided this lead
ership by stressing to the Board of Trustees 
that the University Center deserves money and 
attention so changes can be made.
Goff: Construction of the University Center 
is still well over a year or two from beginning. 
This presents a terrific opportunity in addition 
to the obvious drawback. We, the students, can 
actively influence what is encompassed in our 
Center.
Currently there is talk of having students on 
a planning commission. I would ensure that 
this is carried through. Also, I value polling at 
the dining facilities to get campus opinion. On 
this issue, the question asked could be: What 
would you like to see in the University Cen
ter? This provides an inflow of student com
munication to the administration, which will 
be complimented by an outflow in the publish
ing of regular reports to the campus and com
munity on the progress made by the commit
tee. I will press for a definite date of construc
tion and for the project plan to be disclosed 
within the year. With this input from the gen
eral campus, with the administrations new 
policy of concern, and with students actually 
in the planning room, I am sure we will have a 
student-oriented Center.
Q: Everyone agrees that the quality of stu
dent life is poor, but no one seems to know how 
to improve it. The administration was able to 
identify the problems through the Quality of 
Student Life Task Force but apparently was 
not able to implement any solutions. As Presi
dent, how would you improve the quality of 
student life? More importantly, what would 
you do to keep the ball rolling" in the admini
stration?
Robitshek: I would improve the quality of 
student life by bringing students and faculty 
together in to interact in a non-classroom 
atmosphere. This would lead to a sense of a 
college community not just a research facility. 
To keep the ball rolling I would set up a way for 
the administration to give a progress report to 
students by The Tartan, the Student Union, 
and the Student Senate. This way the students 
would be able to obtain the information and to 
question what is happening. Also, this would 
make the administration realize that they are 
accountable to students.
GofT: The Presidents Task Force derived 
many sound recommendations on improving 
the quality of life at CMU. I would be forceful 
in getting these recommendations enacted. 
There has been much receptive talk (i.e. ex
tending campus facility hours, specifically 
Entropy) but no action. I intend to help facili
tate action by working with the administration
 not just reporting on them.
As well as pressing the administration, I 
would initiate measures. For example, we 
have good athletic teams in our division. We 
should promote this and perhaps by working 
with SDC and IFC enhance student support. 
Regular checks, meetings, and personal ac
tions to initiate measures will keep the ball 
rolling. Incorporated in this personal action 
will be a student advisory committee to report 
steps taken and continue research on new ways 
to improve the quality of life.
Q: The College of Fine Arts has been 
plagued with problems for the past two years. 
How would you, as President of Student Gov
ernment. help to strengthen this college?
Robitshek: The first step I would like to see 
is for the Dean of CFA and the department 
heads to have an open meeting with all CFA 
students. This would be to explain what is 
occurring in CFA, but also let students ask 
important questions and get some straight 
answers. The most important thing for the 
Dean and the department heads to realize is 
that they should consult with students before 
making decisions that affect students. I would, 
as President of Student Government, make 
sure that students become part of the decision 
process by meeting with the Dean and depart
ment heads to initialize the whole process.
Goff: One drawback of CMU is that the 
workload is so intense that the colleges seem to 
segregate into three groups H&SS, GSIA, 
SUPA; CIT, MCS; and CFA. We lack a uni
fied campus. I will strive to bring the colleges 
together through organizations, integrating 
Student Advisory Councils, and events to 
benefit everyone.
Heres how a unified campus could help 
CFA. A major problem of CFA is a serious 
lack of room. What room they do have is 
obstructed by scenic trailers, as is the case for 
most of us. Rather than submitting a petition 
signed by a limited number of CFA students 
for help (which failed), the unified campus 
could join together in solving this. Together, 
we could ask for a resolution of the space 
problem with specific emphasis on room for 
CFA. The trailers could be moved away from 
the amphitheater and to buildings with no need 
for space directly outside. Also, with better 
communication, their SAC would know about 
newly created space to lobby for, such as the 
first floor of Margaret Morrison.
After much time, the school is finally plan
ning on building an addition to MM and giving
some of the vacated space to CFA. The point 
remains that a unified campus would facilitate 
better communication and quicker action to 
problems as they arise in each college.
Q (for Goff): How do you respond to the 
charge that you have no experience on the 
Student Senate?
GofT: I believe I am extremely capable and 
qualified to serve as President of Student Gov
ernment.
I have been very active in campus life. 1 have 
organized CMU College Republicans and 
presided over it before being promoted to 
Regional Director for SW Pennsylvania. As a 
brother of SAE, I have held the office of Vice 
President, Chairman of the Finance Commit
tee, and Social Chairman. I will be a camp 
counselor this summer. Most recently, I 
formed a Big Brother/Sister program on cam
pus which is thriving both in practice and 
financially. I have had experience with 3 col
leges: having started as H&SS, transferred to 
the IM department and am now entering the 
SUPA 3-1-1 program. What this all sums up to 
is: I understand our campus.
The Student Government Presidents duties 
are not limited to being an ex-officio member 
of Senate. He is a liaison between students and 
administration, a co-ordinator of organiza
tions and a representative of the school as a 
whole. Tangibly speaking, I have dealt with 
Senate, sat in on their meetings, and know 
Robert's Rules of Order very well. But this 
office requires more thar. technical knowledge 
of organization.
I bring a fresh outlook to old and new prob
lems and issues, free from the negative con
cepts of we cant and its been tried be
fore. With this perspective and understand
ing of our school, I look forward to being your 
voice for the 1988-89 school year!
Q (for Robitshek): Youve held this office for 
a year now. What do you need a second term 
for?
Robitshek: I dont need a second term. I 
have, in my first term, completed my cam
paign promises. These include my committee 
called the Retail Stores Advisory committee 
where we have reached an agreement with the 
bookstore to increase the student discount on 
books to 15 percent next year. We have also 
been able to plan a Senior Banquet this year, 
through one of my committees. We hope the 
student banquet, sponsored by President 
Cyert, will become an annual affair.
I would like to have a second term to continue 
some projects that are in the works now. These
continued on page 7

---------------------------------------------------

WITH ALL THE EXCITEMENT OF
DONT FORGET TO
VOTE!!!!
Elections are coming!
vote for your 
Student Government 
President 
& 
Student Senators
When : Tues. and Wed. April 12th and 13th
Where : On the Cut in front of Skibo and in front of Grey
Matter
Why : Let your voice be heard! Have an important say
in who your student leaders will be!!!!
Your vote counts!!!!!!

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage 7
Before flying Virgin, these typical collegiate-types thought travelling to London was about as exciting as taking an 8 a.m. Trig exam with a hangover.After flying with us, they were as happy as three rock stars on a world tour.Youll feel the same way. Once youve flown on our roomy 747s. And experienced our great movies, music videos, BBC comedy shows, 8 different music programs, and all our other award-winning in-flight entertainment. All coming at you through a pair of serious electronic headsets.Still not satisfied? How about a nice hot meal. In fact, a choice of 3 nice hot meals.Thats right, its airplane food. With one major difference. Its actually edible. Its also followed by tea and pastries later on.So you can munch out while you do a little extra studying. (Yeah, right!)Want even more? Then let us remind you of our fares. As low as $2191 from Newark. $249* from Miami.Now what do you think?Great. Then see your travel agent. Or call us at 1-800-862-8621.Hey, if we could please these sourpusses, pleasing you will be a breeze.Virgin Atlantic Airways.747sIo Londoa
Take us for all weve got.
One way Late Saver Fare. Fees and taxes not included. Bookable within 7 days of departure and must be ticketed upon booking.
Non-refundable. Valid in New York April 1-June 30. In Miami, April 1-May 31
WE NEED YOUR 
HELP
ffffflfffffffff!
Juniors or Seniors inter
ested in helping to plan 
the uSenior Send-off  
sponsored by President 
Cyert should contact 
either:
Heather Jeans at x5970 
Jeannie Sullivan at x5969
Before.After:
A Letter to 
Carnegie 
Me lions 
Neighbors
Neighbors concerned about constructionWater break in Hamerschlag 
causes campus-wide blackout
Senator proposes 
dorm storming
continued from page 3
and in the lobby of Morewood. Tilem asked 
to table the proposal until SDC and the Senate 
Rules Committee could work something more 
reasonable out together. He claimed that as the 
proposal stands, the SDC Housing Commit
tee, SDC as a whole, and Director of Housing 
Tony Martin would be all opposed to the pol
icy.
After some discussion the motion was 
tabled.
CMU selects new 
travel agent
continued from page 1
phone employee with a work order for the 
installation of a computer communications 
hook-up between United Airlines and Ameri
can Express. The work order for the installa
tion was authorized by Richard English.
When she questioned English, he claimed 
that he had not authorized the work. It was at 
this time that Formica felt that it was necessary 
for her to close the on-campus office.
Although the on-campus office has been 
closed, World-Wise still maintains its campus 
extension so that it can serve the campus 
community until the transition to American 
Express is made.
Both Richard English and Fred Rogers were 
unavailable for comment.
By ERIKA PETERSON
Tartan Managing Editor 
Construction on the $58 million East Cam
pus project may be delayed by community 
concerns and zoning laws concerning the 
parking garage. The $6 million garage would 
be located on the long Skibo lot along Forbes 
In a city planning commission hearing held 
March 22 about the garage, the Executive Di
rector of the Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition, 
voiced the concerns of the group. The coali
tion feels that the 600-foot long, 33-foot tall 
structure would create a barrier between the 
Squirrel Hill community and CMU.
The group feels that CMU is a vital part of the 
Squirrel Hill community. The group hoped to 
make approval of the structure contingent on 
the improvement of its appearance. The plan, 
in an effort to increase the aesthetic quality of 
the garage, includes the planting of trees along 
the north wall, creating a garden wall effect, 
according to architects.
In addition, the plan must be approved by the 
city council, and faces a possible obstacle in 
the Zoning Board of Adjustment. The build
ing, which according to zoning laws, must be 
at least 25 feet from the property line, sits as 
close as five feet in places.
In order to complete the new dorm, also a part
By SHIZUKA OTAKE
Tartan Staffer iter
The Wednesday before spring break, a 
power failure blacked out Boss, Hamerschlag, 
Margaret Morrison, Scaife, Hunt Library, 
GSIA, and Skibo. It was caused by a water 
break in Hamerschlag House.
The water flooded into an underground tran
sistor, damaging some of the splices and caus
ing a shorting of wires. This also caused ex
cessive pressure in a steam pipe, resulting in a 
steam valve break in Scobell Hall. Students 
had to be moved to the west side of the 
basement and local hotels. Some damage was 
done to the plaster in the hallways, but there 
was little other damage.
During the blackout, officers had to evacuate 
the affected buildings and guard the en
trances. Although one student tried to force 
his way into Margaret Morrision, Security 
Chief James Lapaglia said that on the whole 
there were no problems and students were 
very cooperative.
Physical Plant and Security investigated 
Hamerschlag and found the leak had passed 
through a large hole in the strainer. CMU
engineers concluded that the hole was unlikely 
to have happened by itself and speculated that 
something was probably knocked against the 
strainer. Security doubts that it was intended, 
but they are sending the piece of metal that had 
been knocked out to a crime lab for investiga
tion.
Duquesne Electric will be replacing the i 
damaged splices. Physical Plant engineers I 
stated that they had been put in improperly.
Pres, candidate
expresses views
continued from page 5
include a campus computer monitor system to 
keep the campus community aware of the 
events on our campus. I would also like to 
begin work on a faculty advisory system 
campus-wide. I feel this is one step in bringing 
students and faculty together outside the class
room. I hope to work on many other projects 
also. Theres never enough time for all of the 
ideas that can be done.
I feel I have done a good job working with the 
ideas and projects I tackled this year and hope 
I will have a second term to continue this same 
intensity in new ideas and projects.
of the East Campus expansion project, by fall 
1989, as scheduled, ground must be broken for 
the garage in May.
In an effort to address community con
cerns about the expansion plan,- Public 
Relations published Good Neighbors, a 
newsletter which answers questions about 
the the plan. The newsletter is scheduled to 
come out once every six weeks.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanApril 12,1988
Minutes of the April 5 Student Senate Meeting
Senators Present: Levy, Berger, Dennis, 
Frazier, Gallo, Gantshar, Graupera, Green
berg, Hausman, Jainchill, Kombrek, Lenga, 
Liu, Mittelhauser, Mukherjee, Neighbor, 
Pavlovsky, Rao, Robitshek, Rosenblum, 
Ruben, Schearer, Steppel. Trinh. Vaserstein, 
Zapf, Zung.
Absent with apologies: Christina (exc), de 
Jong, Detillo, Herrick, Levine, Skolkin, Veit, 
Wilke.
1. The meeting was called to order at 7:04 
pm.
1. Approval of Previous Minutes.
2. Paragraph 45, the budget for the video 
taping is $45; the idea was suggested by Sena
tor Liu. Ed Lilley had no say in the matter.
II. Special Guest Speaker
3. Senator Greenberg introduced Peter Callopy as the special guest speaker. He is the 
Director of Health and Safety for Carnegie 
Mellon. He talked of the organization and his
tory of his department.
4. He also said that if anyone has any ques
tions or sees anything which may be a health 
hazard, that person should send him mail at 
PC1M@TE.
5. Responding to a question of whether it is 
the law that the complete building [of Morewood] needs to be evacuated because of an 
alarm in another tower. Callopy said that the 
Fire Marshall usually demands an evacuation 
of the entire building.
a. President: Andrew Robitshek
6. There will be a PSAC meeting on April 8. 
Interested parties should see President Ro
bitshek.
7. There is a proposal for a senior banquet. It 
is to be held on Thursday, May 12, under the 
tent.
b. SDC: Walt Schearer
8. There was a meeting on March 23 of the 
university architects. The city of Pittsburgh 
has yet to approve of the new dorm.
9. The University wished to control the park
ing along Margaret Morrison Street.
10. Senator Rao wanted to know about oncampus cable TV. The response was that SDC 
is still waiting to hear from the Greek system 
so as to be able to calculate costs.
c. Chairperson: Erica Levy
11. Elections will be on April 12 and 13.
d. Academic Affairs: Lisa Christina
12. Still working on proposal for Ryan 
Teaching Awards.
13. Still working on rescheduling 7:30 am 
exams.
14. Still working on TA evaulations. Hope
fully will be ready by next semester.
15. Philosophic Methods and Morals is 
changing again.
16. Working on lowering the QPA require
ments for Deans list.
17. Will look into Decision Processes, since 
there has been a lot of negative comments.
18. Computerized registration can be done at 
the earliest in three to four years.
e. Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek
19. Senator Kombrek thanked all those in
volved in the recent car and pedestrian count
ing project.
20. Extra thanks to Senator Frazier for work
ing extra for the people who did not show up.
f. Funding and Recognition: Tamal 
Murherjee
21. Copies of the spring budgets will be 
available in the Senate office.
22. Some of the budgets will be changed. 
These include WRCT, Senate, Hockey, La
crosse, and Spirit.
g. Public Relations: Laurie Gallo
23. Senator Gallo thanked all who helped in 
the postering.
24. The presidential debate has been 
cancelled. Instead, an article will appear in the 
Tartan. Senator Greenberg, at this point, inter
jected, and ejaculated: People from the Stu
dent Union also have surveys.
h. Rules: Allen Greenberg
25. Tabled: Student Senate Amendment to 
Article VII, Section 2, subsections A, and D.
26. Senator Mukherjee pointed out that sub
section D of the amendment should rightfully 
be subsection E.
27. Regarding dorm storming policy, SDC 
indicated that the SDC council overwhelm
ingly felt that this is not what the students 
wanted.
28. SDC felt that this was a matter under the 
jurisdiction of SDC, and a motion to table the 
resolution failed.
29. Senator Ruben felt that other campus 
organizations should also have equal time ac
cess as do the frats. Furthermore, the hours 
outlined in the resolution are reasonable.
30. After several suggestions that Senate and 
SDC discuss the matter and draft a resolution 
that was acceptable to both the Senate and 
SDC, the matter was tabled.
31. Senator Greenberg requested a copy of 
the AB constitution when F&R receives it.
32. Senator Mukherjee then replied that the 
constitution will not be available until after 
carnival. The rider on AB s funding still holds; 
AB will not receive funding unless their 
constitution is received by Senate.
33. Senator Greenberg is still waiting for the 
Hazardous Waste Policy.
III. Old Business
34. AB informed Senate that Jabberwock has 
been scheduled for the Saturday of carnival;
the Alarm is about set, and there will be a 
Friday night dance.
35. AB has also scheduled two lectures for 
next year: Tom Wolfe and the guy who wrote 
Cry Freedom!
36. With the upcoming Ugly Man on Cam
pus competition upon us, Senator Gallo nominated Senator Frazier. Senator Gantshar 
nominated Kirk and his ears. Both Kirk and 
his ears graciously declined the nomination. 
Senator Mukherjee then nominated Senator 
Greenberg, who respectfully declined the 
nomination. Senator Frazier will be Senates 
only nominee.
IV. Points of Discussion
37. Senator Lenga inquired about the video j 
taping of Senate meetings and was informed
by Senator Mukherjee that it is undergoing 
funding.
38. Senator Lenga also expressed that if Sen
ate wanted a policy, we [the Senate] should not 
kiss up to anyone else.
39. Senator Greenberg said that a lot of 
rooms were inspected during Spring Break, 
and that the new Privacy Policy prohibits such ^ 
inspections without prior notification.
40. Chairperson Levy read a memo from Bill 
Elliott. It outlines a plan to eliminate 7:30 am 
exams. It was suggested that the first class of 
the day will be at 9 am, and the time period 8 
am to 9 am will be university exam hours. The 
earliest possible inception date for this would 
be the fall of 1989.
V. Announcements |
41. Senator Liu tendered her resignation but 
will continue to work with bike racks.
42. Senators Gantshar and Zapf are both re
signing.
43. With no further points of discussion, the 
meeting was adjourned at 8:37 pm.
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING Sun.-Thrus. 7-10 pm
Sponsored by the Counseling &Student Development Center and Student Affairs
CALCULUS 
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY 
ECONOMICS 
ACADEMIC WRITING 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
PH 107-A 
PH 107- B 
PH 126-A 
PH 126-B 
PH 126-C 
WeH 5409

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage 9
CONGRATULATIONS 
to the1988-89 RESIDENT ASSISTANT STAFF!
HEAD RESIDENTS
Thomas Fernandez Harold Hambrose Diane VandigoEric Wittle
Sarah Alexander 
Warren Breitenbach 
Michael Carpenter 
Yash Gupta 
Betsy Kopshina 
Howard Lossing 
Kimberly Orsborn 
Lynn Pinto 
Darcy Snyder 
Justine Waldman
VETERAN STAFF
Robert Avoletta 
Mark Brownlee 
Renee Dimaano 
Lance Gwennap 
Brian Kuszyk 
Donald Michel 
Denise O'Toole 
Eric Pitchford 
David Stewart
Sheila Bomberger 
Jody Burig 
Alan Falkowski 
Sanjeev Katyal 
Bethanie Leonatti 
Kevin Marsh 
Val Peterle 
Skip Shade 
Anne Wagner
Sharon Becker
Sridhar Dasari
Todd Eller
Susan Fitzgerald
Elsbeth Gorman
Beth Innocenti
Carol Komlenic
Camillya Mattison-Bryant
Eric Morton
Karen Pavlosky
Walt Schearer
Tricia Steele
Thomas Urban
Amer Yaqub
NEW STAFF
Cynthia Countouris 
Leslie Djang 
Keith Eklund 
Michael Fuller 
Charles Hachten 
Chris Johnson 
Lara Kovack 
Joseph Melvin 
Thomas Musial 
Howard Pierce 
Devon Smullen 
Kimberly Thomas 
David Vap 
Aaron Young
Ellen Didier 
Kai Dominik 
Curtis Equi 
Andy Gillespie 
Amy Howes 
Kimberly Keeton 
Gina-Marie Marsala 
Susan Moll 
JosieParr 
Ted Roller 
Marya Spring 
Vaibhav Trivedi 
Lisa Waldstein
The Housing Office staff would like to thank all the members of the University community who contributed 
to the selection of the 1988-89 Resident Staff.
"Crime and Incident Report: 3/25 to 4/8
3/25/88 THEFT/RECOVERY Students 
observed leaving Hunt Library with a picture. 
Security checked outside of main entrance and 
found picture.
3/25/88 DISORDERLY CONDUCT 1:48 
am Officers observed fireworks being shot off 
rif from the Pika porch. Found three males on the 
Pika porch. While the officers were obtaining 
information, a bottle rocket was dropped from 
the third floor. It exploded one foot from one 
officers foot. He was sprayed with the debris, 
but was not injured. Found two individuals 
hurriedly leaving the third floor. All fireworks 
were confiscated.
3/27/88 SPECIAL 12:53 am While on pa9 trol near Donner Hall, CMU police observed 
two white males with two females carrying a 
large object. On closer inspection, it appeared 
to be a step ladder. When the four realized that 
they had been seen, they set it and some other 
objects down and ran toward 5125 Margaret 
Morrison. They scattered; none were caught. 
The other objects they had included two Sylvania light bulbs, a switch, and three sockets. 
9 3/27/88 THEFT 3:18 pm While on routine 
patrol in Skibo parking lot, an officer observed 
white male, 59, carrying a globe-shaped 
light cover, like the ones in front of Warner 
Hall. The perpetrator entered More wood Gar
dens. Security caught up with him in E-tower 
and confiscated the light cover.
3/27/88 PROPERTY DAMAGE 9:04 pm 
Mellon Institute responding officer found one
0 pine tree uprooted and another missing.
3/27/88 BURGLARY 11:44 pm Mellon 
Institute room 104 ABM supervisor contacted 
Security to report that six key rings were miss
ing from a key box. An investigation is con
tinuing.
3/28/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 6:41 pm 
Mellon Institute victim stated that a white 
male, 6, medium build, with dark hair was 
acting in a peculiar manner. The area was 
searched, but no one was found.
3/30/88 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 11:31 am 
Received call that persons unknown were 
checking out cars in Morewood Gardens park
ing lot. Police responded and found three 
black males attempting to steal a green Monte 
Carlo. They ran. One was apprehended and 
transported to the station. He identified the 
others and was turned over to his father. The 
paperwork is being handled by juvenile court.
3/30/88 BURGLARY Around midnight at 
Carol Apartments victim reported that he 
heard someone attempting to break into the 
apartment below. Police found the owner of 
the apartment, who said that he had trouble 
getting his window open from the inside and 
had attempted to open it from the outside.
3/31/88 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT 6:43 am 
Victim stated that persons unknown entered 
Room 159 in Building D of the Bureau of 
Mines. A door moulding was removed and 
there was evidence that someone attempted to 
gain entry into a nearby room.
3/31/88 THEFT 2:30 pm Persons unknown 
removed a blue wallet from E&S library. It 
contained $12 and credit cards.
4/2/88 SPECIAL 4:16 pm Victim stated that 
while using mens room in Baker he observed 
a man watching him through a space in the 
stall. The victim yelled Hit the road, man. 
The white male fled from the restroom. A 
search did not turn him up. At 4:24 pm the vic
tim returned to report that he thought the man 
had re-entered the restroom. He was identified 
as an alumni. Victim could not positively iden
tify him as the man in the restroom.
4/3/88 THEFT 5:34 pm Persons unknown 
removed a digital CD player, Acoustic Re
search speakers, Kenwood stereo receiver, a 
JC turntable, an Onkyo cassette player, and a 
JC walkman from Shirley Apartments. Total 
value: $1130.
4/4/88 SPECIAL 9:45 pm Victim in CFA 
stated that he had ordered pizza. When he paid 
for it, he removed $120 to $140 in twenty 
dollar bills, which he laid on a display case. He 
paid for the pizza with one dollar bills. He ate 
the pizza and went to visit a friend in Morewood. While there he remembered the twen
ties were still in CFA. When he returned to the 
display case, the money was gone.
4/5/88 THEFT Sometime between January 
and April, persons unknown removed an IBM 
PS/2 model 30 and an IBM black and white 
monitor from Hamburg Hall. Total approxi
mate value: $2100.
4/5/88 THEFT 10:41 pm Persons unknown 
removed victims Walkman with AM/FM 
stereo cassette player from the Tartan Grill. 
Value: $110.
4/6/88 SPECIAL 12:55 am Pittsburgh Po
lice sergeant stopped at comer of Tech and 
Schenley Drive to ascertain if CMU had 
proper permits for push practice. After discus
sion and disagreement with the Sweepstakes 
chairman, the streets were opened and practice 
stopped for the evening.
4/6/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSON 3:16 pm 
Security received a call that a white male 
around age 40, 59, with black hair and 
glasses, wearing navy blue jacket was at Beta 
house asking if anyone had any drugs to sell. 
He was last seen walking down Morewood to
ward Forbes.
4/7/88 SPECIAL 7:26 pm In Fine Arts 
lobby persons unknown were found construct
ing art work. Plastic bags with weights were 
attached to statues. A swing was attached to 
the south mezzanine. Steps leading to Kresge 
Theatre were covered with wood, plastic bags, 
and burning candles. The handicapped ramp at 
south entrance was removed. Wet paint and 
trash bags were on the floor causing unsure 
footing.
4/7/88 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 8:40 pm 
Security received a call saying that a black 
male in a brown leather jacket had grabbed the 
manager of MorePizza. Upon responding to 
the call, Security found a CMU Dining Service 
worker. He hadnt grabbed anyone; he was 
just acting suspicious. He was reprimanded 
and released.
4/8/88 THEFT 11:50 pm In CFA persons 
unknown removed victims black purse. The 
purse contained $200, various charge cards, 
and personal items.
Be aware:
On March 26 Security received reports that a 
male near Mellon Institute was trying to sell a 
VCR to passers by. He was a black male, 59, 
wearing blue jeans, a fishing cap, and a dark 
jacket CMU Police investigated and identi
fied the man, but he was not committing a 
crime, and Pittsburgh Police have no outstand
ing warrants out for him.
He does have a long criminal record. He has 
been known to run a scam in which he offers to 
sell a victim an item. When the victim shows 
up to pick up the item, he is robbed with a 
weapon.
University of Pittsburgh Police reported that 
he has been spotted around the Pitt campus.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Robitshek more qualified
While one promises change and the other promises continuity, 
Student Government Presidential candidates Andy Robitshek 
and Fred Goff are both excellent candidates  with only two 
differences.
Whereas the incumbent has built a platform on specific 
problems and specific solutions, his challenger is running on 
traditional Carnegie Mellon rhetoric without specific solutions.
Both candidates agree that communication between students, 
faculty, administration, and colleges is poor, but only Ro
bitshek offers any concrete remedies. He wants to expand the 
Faculty Advisory system, coordinate student clubs and organi
zations, and initiate a campus-wide electronic events calendar.
These answers come from experience. In his one-year term, 
Robitshek was able to work with Senate, students, and admin
istrators to get a comprehensive Student Advisory Committee 
(SAC) proposal well on its way to fruition, restart Students 
Against Multiple Sclerosis (SAMS), get a new sound system in 
DH 2210, help extend Gym and Entropy hours, save the Senior 
Banquet, and help increase the Bookstores student discount.
Goff has an impressive background: founder of CMUs Col
lege Republicans and Big Brothers/Big Sisters, and S AE frater
nity vice-president, but no student government experience.
Before he was elected, Robitshek was a two-term Senator, 
SDC member, Tartan Business Manager, and Theta Xi brother.
Goff is quick to point out that the Student Government 
Presidents duties are not limited to being an ex-officio mem
ber of Senate and he is absolutely right. But no one, no matter 
how fresh his perspective, can achieve much alone, espe
cially when he is tackling issues as old as the University.
It makes sense that the Student Government President should 
have experience working with the only student government on 
campus before he takes office.
Because of his experience, The Tartan endorses Andy Robit
shek as the better Student Government Presidential candidate.Town versus gown
Perhaps the University realized the irony involved when it 
published its first Good Neighbors newsletter explaining the 
proposed East Campus construction.
The project may be delayed thanks to opposition by the 
Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition. It claims the new parking garage 
would be a barrier between the campus and the community.
Our neighbors have short memories. Last year, they pushed 
for permit parking to prevent us from parking on local streets.
Of course, the parking lot could be elsewhere if we were not 
building a new dormitory. However, a new dormitory is neces
sary after residents of Clyde Street complained about Univer
sity-rented apartments located there.
Carnegie Mellon seems to be suffering from a version of the 
Not In My Backyard syndrome. Our neighbors are unwilling 
to see CMU construct new buildings on our own land.
These same residents, though, want the benefits Carnegie 
Mellon brings to Pittsburghs East End. Athletic facilities, Hunt 
Library, and the College of Fine Arts would be difficult, if not 
impossible, for neighborhood groups to duplicate.
We applaud the City Planning Commissions approval of the 
construction and urge the City Council to do the same.
Carnegie Mellon is an essential part of the community. Unfor
tunately, essential is not a synonym for well-equipped.
Saving the Senior Banquet
Six months ago, seniors were informed that there would be no 
Senior Banquet this year because of drunken and disorderly 
conduct at four previous banquets.
Six days ago, seniors were informed that President Richard 
Cyert had agreed to sponsor a Senior Send-off on May 12.
This semi-formal buffet-style luncheon will be run by students 
instead of Alumni Relations and will be held on the Cut.
We hope his new event will avoid the fate of its predecessor 
and we commend seniors Jeanne Sullivan, Heather Jeans, 
Michael Gordon, and Student Government President Andrew 
Robitshek for their leadership in preserving this tradition .
We also praise President Cyert for backing the new Banquet.
Letters:AIDS name-change goes unnoticed
Editor:
Due to the fact that the lethal bug 
currently ripping up the human race 
is known in public under the mis
leading word  AIDS  the rami
fications and puzzlement of the sci
entific community, which has 
changed the lethal bugs scientific 
name, has fallen only on deaf ears. 
The name of the virus went from 
HTLV-III to HIV, when the original 
thesis about its origins became im
possible to sustain.
It is widely believed in public that 
the lethal bug began in monkeys. In 
fact, that is why the scientific com
munity was yelling, Hurrah! 
Weve found it! When discovering
the prevalence of HTLV-III in 
monkey blood. As months passed, 
however, there was muttering. At 
last, one scientist could hold it no 
longer and declared, Drat! Foiled! 
Curses! It isnt HTLV-III. It only 
resembles the monkey virus. So the 
name was changed to HIV, except in 
the press, which keeps calling it 
AIDS.
I was working in a Medical Library 
when this virus first appeared, dur
ing a time when those of us con
cerned with medical ethics were 
very discouraged by the Reagan Ad
ministration budget which had cut 
off federal funding for the study of 
medical ethics. I will be known to
maintain, along with John Stock^ 
well, formerly of the CIA, and Frank 
Zappa that this terrible epidemic 
could have been genetically engi
neered; that genetic engineering in 
the military state could create more 
such disasters in the future. Anyone 
who has seen the usefulness to 
which AIDS has been put by Funda
mentalists and bigots must under
stand that either way this is a politi
cal atrocity. Those who doubt the 
plausibility of this thesis should 
remember that as late as 1944, there 
was virtually no one who believed in 
the death camps of war-torn Europe.
James Crary
Inquiring MindsrHow to get the most out of Carnival
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Hold onto your hats, Carnival is 
only two days away. For some of 
you, this will be your first Carnival, 
for others it will be your fourth or 
fifth or even sixth. In any case, it al
ways seems 
that people 
dont get as 
much out of 
Carnival as 
they should. With that in mind, we 
proudly present the 1 st annual HowTo Carnival Guide.
DONT try to get any homework 
done. It just annoys the rest of us 
who have to catch up come Monday.
EX) get some sleep. It gets really 
tough to pick up all the babes from 
Central Catholic and Pitt if you fall 
asleep.
DONT go to classes on Thursday. 
The more people who do this, the 
sooner it will become a tradition, and 
the sooner well get the day off.
DO go to the AB Dance Thursday 
night. Odds are it will be the first and 
only one you will ever go to.
DONT miss Delta Upsilons 
newest 2-wheel buggy, King Eider. 
Either it will crash spectacularly 
again or beat the shit out of everyone
else.
DO get on as many guest lists as 
possible. That way no matter who 
wins, youll be going to the right 
party.
DONT miss the awards cere
mony, especially if Beta comes in 
second again.
DO drink a certain amount before 
you reach the Midway. However if 
you throw up in the Gravitron, youll 
know you had too much, and people 
wont like you.
DO be as generally immoral as you 
can to make up for faking morality 
around Cliffe last week.
DONT have sex on the football 
field. Someone is probably watch
ing.
DO tell all of the 15 year-olds that 
the beer is flowing at the fraternity 
you like the least. However, DONT 
call the LCB. Most of us still havent 
done our 10 hours from the last raid.
DONT miss the Design competi
tion on Thursday. Lord knows 
youre not going to be capable of 
waking up early enough on Friday or 
Saturday.
DO go to the Midway Thursday 
night. Its never fun hanging around 
with people who think that Tiffany
sits at the right hand of God.
DONT expect to sleep in Donner 
Hall Wednesday night. Booth con
struction at 3 am sounds like the 
Kiltie Band playing Reveille before 
the football games. However, the 
band goes away after five minutes.
DONT go out onto the Midway to 
complain about the noise. Remem
ber all of those organizations you 
joined in September so you could list 
them on your resume? Well, theyre 
all going to be there, expecting you 
to help.
DO play your stereo as loudly as 
possible. The neighbors wont be 
able to tell if its yours. Besides, they 
probably like Tiffany.
DONT eat too much. Your 
average beer has 150 calories, so you 
really cant afford much else.
DO be a jerk towards non-students 
who come to visit. They arent pay
ing $17,000 to stay here for eight 
months, so they dont deserve to 
have as much fun as you.
DO stop as many 16 year olds from 
having sex in the bushes as you can. 
After all, if you cant get it, why 
should they?
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, S. 
Markon, C. Williams, R. Wilson.

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage 11
I beg your pardon
By ART BUCHWALD
With the indictments of Ollie North, John 
Poindexter, Richard Secord, and Albert 
Hakim, people in Washington are now specu
lating as to how it will all come out. Here are 
some theories:
President Reagan 
will pardon Ollie 
North and John Poin
dexter because they 
both worked for him.
But he will do noth
ing for Secord and 
Hakim because they 
were not team play
ers.
The President will 
not pardon anybody 
because they didnt 
commit any crimes.
And even if they did,
Reagan was watch
ing old movies and 
didnt know about it.
Sen. Bob Dole, in one last desperate move for 
the Republican nomination, will announce 
that if he is elected President he will pardon 
Vice President George Bush.
Bush will retort that his resume shows he 
doesnt need a pardon because he won Texas.
Pat Robertson will proclaim that if he is 
elected President he will sign a divine forgive
ness order for the four defendants, which has 
double the value of a pardon.
It is predicted that Ollie North will pardon his 
shredding machine and the people who used it 
without his permission.
Ollies lawyer will announce that he is call
ing President Reagan, Prime Minister Shamir, 
and the Ayatollah Khomeini as defense wit
nesses in the trial.
Gen. Secords lawyer will ask the Sultan of 
Brunei to open up a defense fund for his client 
in a Swiss bank account.
President Reagan will announce that he is 
giving a blanket pardon to Ed Meese. This way 
the President wont have to be bothered with 
issuing a new one every day.
Northwest Airlines will announce at the be
ginning of the trial they will not pardon Poin
dexter if he keeps smoking his pipe in the
courtroom.
During the trial the prosecution will ask 
Hakim where the money is. He will say he 
doesnt know anything about the money. His 
only concern in the Contra affair was to see
__________________ that Ollie North had
good fencing for his 
house.
At some point the 
Department of Agri
culture will be asked 
to rule if Ollie Norths 
lawyer Brendan Sulli
van is a potted plant. If 
they decide he is, the 
President will give 
him a pardon.
The chances of a new 
Democratic President 
pardoning the Gang 
of Four are about the 
same as Nancy Re
agan pardoning her 
stepson Michael Re
agan. For this reason most of the defendants 
are rooting for a Republican to win in 1988, 
just in case Ronald Reagan doesnt sign their 
pardons.
There is doubt that the pardoning will be a big 
campaign issue. Where you stand will test 
your patriotism. If you are in favor of a fair trial 
and a not-guilty verdict from the jury, you are 
a good American.
If you pray for a guilty verdict, you are 
stomping on the American flag in your high 
heels.
The question keeps cropping up as to what 
happens if the trial drags along and Bush, after 
being elected President, is called as a witness 
in the case.
The answer is that Bush, depending on his 
testimony, might have to pardon himself. 
While this could have political repercussions 
it is nothing compared to having Mr. Bush 
testify what he knew about Irangate and when 
he knew it. Those in the know in Washington 
have always maintained that if Nixon had paid 
more attention to pardons than he did to coverups, he might never have had to resign.
Art Buchwald is a syndicated columnist with 
the Los Angeles Times.
Le ft Turn:
Affirmative Action: Righting a wrong
By MICHAEL WITBROCK & 
MICHAEL FRANZINI
Affirmative action programs assign jobs 
and educational opportunities on the basis 
of race or gender. This is discrimination, no 
question about it. 
But it is fair dis
crimination. It 
serves only to 
make up, in a tiny 
way, for a system of ubiquitous and unfair 
discrimination in favor of white males.
From infancy, girls and boys are treated 
differently. Infants dressed in blue are 
played with more actively, encouraged to 
move around, and given toys which require
All these obstacles also face Blacks, Hispanics, and other racial minorities in differ
ent forms.
The people who affirmative action favors 
are discriminated against in favor of white 
males, throughout their lives.
Some opponents of affirmative action 
claim that although it is fair to the groups of 
people involved, it is often unfair to indi
viduals. A white man who is passed over for 
hiring, promotion or entry to a school in 
favor of a slightly less qualified rival may 
feel unfairly treated. This will rarely be the 
case. It is impossible to be a white man in 
our society and not to benefit from the 
system of discrimination against women.
44For every opportunity taken away by an 
Affirmative Action program, a white man 
will have received many opportunities...
manipulation. Infants in pink are held, 
calmed and talked to. As infants, boys are 
taught how to control their environment; 
girls are taught to let their environment 
control them.
The differences in treatment continue as 
children grow; teachers, even ones who 
claim to be feminists, tend to ask boys to 
answer more questions. TV shows children 
men in power and women in bikinis.
Often families encourage boys towards 
careers, and girls towards marriages. It is 
not surprising that many women dont even 
try to compete with men.
When women do seek to further their ca
reers, they are faced with obstacles. They 
are faced with men who wont hire them 
because theyll get married and leave or 
get pregnant or because its not a 
womans job. When they do find jobs, 
women are far less likely to be promoted 
than men, and if they are promoted, it is 
often into positions with less power, less 
pay for similar work or fewer possibilities 
for advancement.
Whether they like it or not, all white men 
receive opportunities, resources and en
couragements to succeed which are denied 
to those who are not white, or are not men. 
For every opportunity taken away by an 
affirmative action program, a white man 
will have received many opportunities un
fairly denied to others.
Affirmative action programs restore op
portunity to those who have had it denied. 
They are also fair to those they deny, who 
have benefited from the denial of opportu
nity to others. By placing women and other 
oppressed minorities in positions of power, 
they lessen the opportunities for discrimi
nation against minority members, and they 
provide an encouragement for others to 
seek the positions they deserve.
Affirmative action is not a plot to deny 
white men their rights. It does not. It is a plot 
to restore to others the rights they are regu
larly denied. In an ideal world, the measures 
in affirmative action programs would be 
sexist and racist. In our sexist, racist world, 
they are only fair.
, Herblocks Gallery
SENPAN EMISSARY 10 NOIKA IN PANAMA
ER A SPECIAL AMSASSWR TO HYMIETOWN'
YACtKAIWAT
JUST A MIAWTE, 60V. PKAWS W* THiMK THE EMPLOYMENT RATE IH .Massachusetts ihcreas k aguarter percent-lessJHAti YOU SAlP AaJP ^ABOUT YOlM BUPCT PROPOSALS 
SE/J. 60RE ifl A CCM6fteSSCfi^L 
vote eight years ago, w 
took a position that
NEFPS TO Be EXPLAIN Ifi U6HT OF TODAY'S 
DEVELOPMENTSA/JT>AOUT YOUR WIFE
The Tartan
Business Manager............
News Editor....................
______Russ Seligman
......Eric W. Leuliette
Assistant News Editor......
Features Editors________
Sports Editor___________
Assitant Sports Editor......
Diversions Editor...........
............Chris Young
____Judy Haraburda
Howdy Pierce 
______...Josh Ruben
...........Michael Rose
Photo Assignment Editor.. 
Photo Darkroom Editor ....
Advertising Manager.......
Contrihutinp FHitnrs ......................................
Bruce Kasrel 
Drue Miller 
John Friedmann
Neil Greenblum 
Mark Benish 
Stewart Levine
mies arepa?, oft Mt?/ how about 
CRIME IS MESSY. Jtsstf jLr" SOME MORE FREE TV TIME
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mellon University 
It is a weekly newspaper, published by students each Tuesday during 
the tall and spring semesters, at no cost to members of the university 
community It is printed by Typecratt Press, Inc Subscriptions are 
available for $ 15 per semester. $25 per year The Editorial appearing 
at the beginning of the opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are not necessarily on The Tartan editonal board or staff Letters 
to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who are usually 
members of the University community A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer s address and phone number for 
verification Names will be withheld upon request The Tartan re
serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column Copyright 
 1988 by The Tartan The editonal board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit tor publication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Edward J. Bennett, MCS 
If elected to Student Senate I intend to 
make the most of our activities fee. 
After all your paying you deserve no 
less than the best.
Rudy Zung, MCS
My Experience:
I was voted to Senate as a Member-atLarge and later took over as the 
Secretary.
I want to make Senate a more visible 
organization and better the campus.
Christian Borthayre, MCS
If elected I will:
- abolish 7:30 am exams
- work to allocate funds for new &
exciting activities
- work towards the installation of
cable TV on campus
- improve I.M. facilities
Gregory Vasterstein, MCS
As a Senator-at-Large I have worked 
hard on many projects. One of the 
most visible is the suggestion box at 
Kiltie. I would like to continue to serve 
my constituents as a full fledged 
senator.
Lisa Christina, MCS
I am running for Student Senate to 
help improve the academic conditions 
here at Carnegie Mellon through my 
continued involvement with the 
Academic Affairs committee.
Jill Moore, MCS 
I want to represent you! But not by 
second-guessing your opinion - I want 
to get you involved. Only together can 
we improve the Quality of Life. Help 
me help you.
William Ott, MCS
I am a junior physics major with a lot 
of experience in campus organizations. 
I would like to help fund and promote 
organizations that sponsor campus 
wide activities.
Michael Herron, MCS
Tired of being kicked around at this 
school?
Ever wonder whose side Senate is on? 
Mike Herron, a candidate who wont 
forget that the purpose of Student 
Senate is to work for the students.
Student Senaj
Vote for your collet Tuesday and On the Cut, in front of S'
Thomas Smith, MCS
I believe the Senate should help 
encourage putting more Andrew 
workstations on campus, and putting 
workstations in computer clusters 
within student dormitories where they 
are more convenient to use.
Chris Warner, MCS
The Student Senate was created to 
represent the student body. It can and 
should work to improve areas such as 
teacher competency, university 
housing, and lack of support to 
interscholastic sports. It has the 
potential to be invaluable to the student 
body.
See page 5 for picta 
with the Preside]
Glenn Kornbrek, CFA
Last semester, 10% of CFA voted in 
Senate elections.
This semester, two people are running 
for five seats.
Stop the apathy and stand up for your 
rights!
Vote! or Run!
Chris Neighbor, CFA
The current situation in CFA warrants 
student input and involvement. Get 
involved!

---------------------------------------------------

Carlos Franco, H&SS
Student Senate fulfills a vital role as a 
communications link between students 
and the administration. If elected, I 
will do my utmost to represent my 
college in Senate.
Melissa Proios, H&SS
Through the Senate I hope to turn my 
conscientious ambition for change into 
actions that will not only benefit my 
fellow students, but the entire campus 
community as well.
Kevin DeYager, H&SS
My goals as Student Senator:
- re-evaluate the H&SS core
curriculum
- student input in tenure process
- promote departmental Student
Advisory Committees
- ensure Middle-States Accrediting
Committee recommendations 
are enacted
te CandidatesI I _/ "
ges representativeI Wednesdayikibo, or in Grey Matter
 ' *II
ires and interviews 
ntial Candidates
Mark Mittelhauser, CIT
CMU needs to move in the direction of 
developing people instead of 
processing machines.
- more political speakers, activities,
and concerts
- actually following through on
Quality of Life suggestions
Ethan Evans, CIT
Carnegie Mellon? Wheres that?
Sick of CMU being a great school that 
no one has ever heard of? Vote for me, 
Ill put CMU on the map.
Barry Brumitt, CIT
Im sick and tired of people 
proclaiming that CMU is little more 
than a glorified trade school. I think its 
time your representative in Student 
Senate understands this.
Jeff Rosenblum, CIT
Make YOUR voice known! As CIT 
Senator, I will represent your opinions 
and concerns. I am able and willing to 
effect changes through Senate that will 
improve the well-being of fellow 
students.
J. Frank DiVito, H&SS
Because I believe that the views of the 
student body are of the greatest 
importance to the university, I will 
attempt to make the faculty and 
administration not only seek the view 
point of the student body but also listen 
to these views.
Rudi Halbright,
We need some changes around here! 
HI start with:
- Assure curriculum changes
reflect students needs/interests 
(not professors convenience)
- Longer hours for campus stores
- Increase quality of professors
sensitivity to student academic 
needs
Angela Legat, H&SS
I would like to become your H&SS 
senator this spring. Becoming a 
senator seems to be a continuance and 
strengthening of the commitment I 
have made to improving the condition 
of student life and the recognition of 
student voice.
Michael Barros, H&SS
H&SS Academic Advisory 
Center/allocation of students activities 
fees/inter-departmental relations: I am 
ready to go to work on these issues and 
I hope you will give me the chance to 
do so. Vote Michael Barros!
%

---------------------------------------------------

f
Page 14The TartanApril 12,1988
Conservative Corner:
Racism is alive and well, thanks to Affirmative Action
By THOMAS A. HEIM
Racism, as a term, has been used most re
cently not to refer to judgements which are in 
fact racially based, but to concepts or ideals 
that do not openly promote the welfare of 
blacks over that of 
other Americans. Un
fortunately, it is indi
viduals, like Ronald 
Reagan, who are op
posed to all brands of racism, who are termed 
racist by the black leadership.
Conservatives, like myself, would prefer to 
see laws, law enforcement, and employment, 
like many other aspects of modem society, 
blind to race. Affirmative action is a blatantly 
racist policy that prefers blacks to whites in 
hiring. I despise the idea of the government 
forcing an employer to hire a black simply to 
meet a quota. Its insulting to the black  who 
may have gotten the job not because he was 
deserving, but because he was blackand its 
a bad business decision to take the unqualified. 
Qualifications, namely experience and educa
tion most importantly, are the proper stipula
tions for hiring. I also despise an employer 
who refuses to hire a black because he is black, 
and severe punishment through high punitive 
damages to go to the black victim is a deterrent 
that I would like to see applied on a larger 
scale.
Law enforcement officials are often accused 
of preferring the arrest of blacks to whites. If 
this is because the suspect is black, and solely 
for that reason, then a boot of the force is in 
order. However, blacks are involved in more 
criminal inci^ 
dents per capita 
than are whites, 
and many more 
interracial inci
dents than whites
are. Of 629,000 ...........
interracial crimes recorded in 1985  where 
the victim could identify the criminal  nine 
out of ten were committed by blacks against 
whites. In rapes, robberies and assaults, 98 
percent of white criminals prey on other 
whites, whereas black criminals prey on 
blacks less than 50 percent of the time. Inci
dents like Howard Beach are publicized in 
order to promote the idea that it is whites with 
racial motivations that are the rule to interra
cial crimes, when in fact the opposite is true.
The black leadership has promoted the idea 
that Goetz was racially motivated in his deci
sion to defend himself with a handgun, and this 
is probably a truthful assertion. If it is true, it is 
not surprising. Goetz, and many blacks and 
whites that ride the subway, realize that blacks 
commit the vast majority of the crimes, and 
Goetz, as a white person, realized that even 
though more blacks ride the subway than 
whites, the whites are preferred by criminals. 
I find it hardly surprising that one might treat 
aggressive gestures by several black men as 
more threatening than similar gestures by 
several white men. Of 
course, nothing says 
that Goetz wouldnt 
have shot white men in 
a similar situation, but
the experience of sub___________________
way riders over the
years reinforces the idea that blacks are more 
dangerous to whites than vice versa. This is the 
truth about interracial crimes; incidents like 
Howard Beach are the exception rather than 
the rule.
The Black Caucus in congress is a federally 
financed group that examines the problems of 
blacks; white congressmen, even the liberal 
ones, have been refused admittance to the 
group. This is a racist organization, by defini
tion, and my tax dollars go to support it. Well,
I thought, for all the bad the Civil Rights 
Restoration Act is going to do, the elimination 
of this group might be one good thing. After 
all, ridding America of racist groups that get 
federal money was the purpose of the bill, and 
so it should have gone. Much to my disgust  
but not surprise  I discovered that the Black
racist policies, and yet to oppose is to be 
branded a racist by the black leadership. There 
is no question in my mind that a White Caucus 
in Congress or a National Conference of White 
Mayors would be instantly denounced as a 
racist, white surpremacist group, the members 
branded for life. This double standard must be 
eliminated. If the blacks will not stand for 
credible white-only groups, then there should 
be no credible black-only groups. To say that 
only black congressmen can have insight into
Reagan has had an outstanding record on 
eliminating racism.
Caucus is specifically exempted from the bill, 
and exempted from the other non-discrimina
tion requirements in federal law. Federally 
financed racism is okay  if its done by 
blacks. Is this message acceptable?
The National Conference of Black Mayors, 
made up of only black mayors, recently voted 
to meet annually only in cities that have black 
mayors. In 1987 voters elected a white mayor 
in the city of Charlotte. A meeting had been 
scheduled in the city, but it had to be relocated 
to a more acceptable location. Heres a group 
with racist membership requirements and
Affirmative Action is a blatantly racist 
policy that prefers blacks to whites in hiring.
black problems is like saying that only Jews 
can have insight into Israels troubles, and 
both are racist assertions.
Ronald Reagan has been denounced by black 
leaders as a hindrance to civil rights, a racist. 
In fact, Reagan has had an outstanding record 
on eliminating racism. That means eliminat
ing affirmative action, eliminating the policies 
that are actually racist. Blacks that wish to 
promote, through government and judicial 
intervention, other Blacks welfare above that 
of whites are themselves the true racists. There 
is no question in my mind that a racist like 
Jesse Jackson, as a white candidate, would be 
taken as seriously as Lyndon Larouche. His 
tremendous black support testifies to the fact 
that blacks realize he has their welfare in mind, 
and he does, even if it means slashing at productive members of society through the establish
ment of a socialist Amer
ica that has a president 
willing to embrace world 
_________________ terrorists.
It seems to me that its 
about time to eliminate the double standard in 
our society. Lets remove the real racist poli
cies by government, affirmative action to start 
with. To treat blacks on equal terms makes one 
an individual who has true fairness and color 
blindness not only in mind but in action as 
well. Conservatives have endorsed these ide
als; it is the leftparticularly the black left 
that promotes racist groups with racist poli
cies, and these groups work for racist govern
ment policy.
Equality is often taken to mean equal re
sults by the leftists, when clearly some situ
ations are not equal to begin with (namely 
more qualified whites than population propor
tion: surgeons, for example). Simply because 
less blacks qualify for the American Express 
Gold Card per population proportion does not 
make American Express a company with rac
ist policies; results are not the same as oppor
tunity, a fundamental misunderstanding of the 
left. When the government tells American 
Express to take a quota of blacks to bring them 
up to population proportion, or any amount, 
^then we have a gov
ernment with a racist 
law and a company 
with a racist policy. 
Conservatives take
______________________ equality to mean
equal opportunity 
where race will not be a help or hindrance in a 
situation. That strikes me as the fairest way that 
recognizes that racism is an ugly evil guilty of 
many of societys ills, and deals with it through 
true equality. Instead of symptomatic medica 
tion, like affirmative action, which one can take 
in vain forever, lets get rid of the disease itself.
HERBLOCKS CARTOON
LYINfi TO C0N6RBS, FRAUg CONSPIRACY; THEFT, PESTRUCTION Of EVtPENCE  
NO MENTION HERE OF ANY CRIMES'
kThe tans cant last. The credits will.NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY 
SUMMER SESSION 88
2003 Sheridan Road 
Evanston, Illinois 60208
Please send my free copy of the 
Summer Session 88 catalog with financial 
aid and registration information. 
(Available mid-March)
Name
School Address
Home Address
State ZIP
News wPw nuurtlai...Send the coupon or call 1-800-FIND8-NU (Inside Illinois call 312/491-4114)384

---------------------------------------------------

on
with (namely 
ilation proporimply because 
irican Express 
jrtion does not 
pany with rac;ame as opporstanding of the 
ells American 
s to bring them 
r any amount, 
ve have a gov;nt with a racist 
nd a company 
i racist policy, 
servatives take 
ity to mean 
il opportunity 
r hindrance in a 
; fairest way that 
;ly evil guilty of 
s with it through 
tomatic medica 
lich one can take 
he disease itself.
rooN
CONSPIRACY, 
VIPENCE  
IY CRIMES
IF ^ _
DIVERSITY
88
ith financial 
)n.
Features
Cliffe brings discussion to Cut
By KELLY SPENCER
Tartan Staffwriter 
It might surprise you to learn that the mysterious man on the 
Cut last week, Cliffe, as he is better known, is an avid basket
ball, tennis, and movie fan. Among his favorite films is Jimmy 
i^tewarts Its a Wonderful Life. Cliffe is also married and has 
one twenty-one-month old child and one to be bom in June.
A graduate of Davidson College in North Carolina and 
Gordon-Con well Theological Seminary outside of Boston, he 
was ordained as a Baptist minister but speaks in churches of 
varying denominations. His father is a Seventh Day Advent
ist and his mother a Presbyterian. He has five younger brothers 
and sisters. Supportive and proud, his family is pleased with 
the direction Cliffes life has taken.
He seems much less intimidating in person, jokingly claiming 
that he prefers to speak on college campuses because theyre 
the ones who invite me.
Thirty-three years old, he speaks on about thirty different 
campuses each year and was invited here by the InterVarsity 
Christian Fellowship, a national collegiate organization. But 
all that traveling doesnt prevent him from enjoying movies 
and sports, or even just reading. C.S. Lewis and Michael 
Greene are two of his favorite authors.
^^ Asked to name the biggest problem he sees in todays American college students, Cliffe cites an excess of belief in the self.
Asked to name the biggest problem he sees in todays Ameri
can college students, Cliffe cites an excess of belief in the self. 
By this he does not mean simple confidence and assurance, but 
rather a willingness to believe in ourselves in a way in which 
we are not willing to believe in God. He has come to this 
conclusion over the years through students demands for an 
unattainable amount of evidence proving the existence of God. 
These demands become especially problematic for him when, 
because of the lack of evidence, students reject Gods existence 
fll and instead adopt another doctrine without requiring of it the 
rigid proof which they had required of God. He sees the two
photo by Andy Gillespie
Evangelist and author Cliffe Knechtle speaks to students 
on the Cut last week.
most common of these doctrines as self-superiority and mate
rialism.
By contrast, the greatest strong point of todays students, 
according to Cliffe, is a willingness to debate and discuss issues 
openly. Candid discussions with students have made Stanford, 
Berkeley, UT Austin, Columbia, and CMU his favorite campus 
forums.
He is unsure of where he would like to be ten years from now, 
remarking that ten years ago, safe in a seminary, the last place 
he expected to be was lecturing on lawns. He does know that his 
ultimate goals are to introduce people to Jesus and to meet their 
needs, regardless of age. In this endeavor, he would like to 
thank CMU for inviting him.
Proffi le PnCo,goaeogt
On proof that God exists:
The fact is that you and I can prove almost 
nothing. Instead we make our decisions based 
on evidence.
On hell:
God is not sending anyone to hell. People are 
ordering God out of their lives. God will get out 
of their lives for eternity. That will be hell. 
On prayer:
Prayer is not a cute formula. Prayer is a deep 
cry by a human being to the living God.
On homosexuals:
[God] gave us sex to communicate the deep
est love, trust and companionship possible be
tween one man and one woman. I, through my 
heterosexual lust, have perverted the gift of 
human sexuality just as my homosexual friend 
has through his or her homosexual lust.
On sex:
Like lots of gifts God has given us, weve 
twisted sex for our own selfish and sometimes 
abusive purposes. And if we share that gift with 
just anyone, we stand a great chance of having 
it damaged. Sexuality is not a meaningless 
addition to life designed to give us a few cheap 
thrills.
from Cliffe Knechtles 
Give Me an Answer That Satisifies My
Heart and Mind
CMU students form Collegiate Calendars 89 corporation
ft
By JOHN KYRIACOPOULOS
Tartan Staffwriter
Are you tired of small black and white 
calendars, or cheesy Teddy Bear calen
dars? If so, youre in luck, because a group 
of enterprising CMU students are in the 
midst of producing a full size color calen
dar to suit your needs.
Collegiate Calendars '89 is a corporation 
that was formed by Industrial Manage
ment/Graphic Communications Manage
ment majors John Kaplan and John Uman, 
president and vice-president, respectively. 
Other corporate members include Wendi 
Amos, Jang Kim, Robert Corey, and Alan 
Chung. They are investing much time and 
money in order to get out their calendar, 
which they say should be available some
time next August for a rough cost of $8.95.
The theme of the calendar is Pride in 
Pittsburgh. Although the theme is an old 
one, it is one that they hope to breathe new 
life into. Their aim is to relate the young 
people and the old traditions of Pittsburgh. 
The calendar will consist of pictures of 
students from colleges within the Pitts
burgh area, (CMU, Pitt, Carlow, 
Duquesne) and pictures of historically sce
nic sights in Pittsburgh like bridges and 
factories. The calendar will also span six
teen months, instead of twelve, and will 
have collegiate events marked.
The idea for the calender originated one 
day not to long ago when Kaplan and Uman 
were thumbing through an issue of Pizazz 
magazine. An article caught their eye about 
a University of Virginia student who had
successfully produced a calendar. They 
toyed with the idea for a month, reviewing 
past calendar efforts and contacting other 
colleges to check the feasibility. They came 
to the conclusion that the calendar market 
was basically untapped, since the last time 
that anything had been tried similar to what 
they were planning was four years ago. 
Eventually the others got involved and they 
decided to form a corporation to circum
vent liability problems presented by a gen
eral partnership.
Soon the actual work began. Students 
interviewed 200 models from seven 
schools and then selected fifty. From those 
fifty, they narrowed them down to eight
een. Also, they attained the proper permits 
and then went out on location in Pittsburgh 
to take pictures. Now they are in the latter 
stages of production and hope that every
thing will continue as planned.
This is no small project, as is evidenced by 
the interest that the corporation is receiving 
from outside. For instance, OC, Gortex, 
and Venus swimwear was donated to the 
corporation. Bernies Photos is supplying 
all of the photography equipment, and 
Dean ofShadyside is doing the hair for all 
of the models. Furs by Anthony is providing 
mink coats for the models. Also, the stu
dents are working hard to get TV coverage.
The students claim that experience is the 
best teacher and that is the primary reason 
for putting the calendar together. After all, 
one can only learn so much in a classroom. 
Collegiate Calanders '89 is proof that ad
vanced education is happening at CMU.
Specs shows how to Make them leave
Dear Specs,
It seems that here at CMU there are many 
people who do not have the social grace to 
know when to leave. What is the correct way 
to suggest that someones presence is no 
longer appreciated?
Are pummeling or throwing beer bottles 
called for when other hints are deliberately 
ignored?
Aggravated
Ask Specs
By Sara Flynn
J
Dear Aggravated,
Yea, throwing beer bottles is always appro
priate behavior for a host weary of his guests. 
If he feels the party is over, and certain strag
glers remain, he might start cleaning up. 
Throwing bottles, cocktail napkins, and half 
eaten canapes away are subtle inferences that 
The Time to Leave is Now. If this doesnt 
work, a subtle reminder that The guests 
wraps can be found in the hall closet mightdo 
the trick.
Only in a situation where the guest appears to 
have pitched a tent and set up camp should the 
host/ess yawn and complain of taxing fatigue.
You will find that there are people outside of 
CMU who dont know when to leave. Gary 
Hart, Jim Bakker, and Mr & Mrs. Marcos all 
made poor departure decisions. The Worst 
Guest of the Year award last year went to
Baby Doc Duvalier. Not only did he exhaust 
the country hosting him, he also abandoned his 
own cocktail party. To be a poor guest and host 
simultaneously is a supreme faux pas. Obvi
ously Baby Doc and his wife did not know the 
primary rule of entertaining: If you overstay 
your welcome, you wait to be welcome to stay 
over.
Specs
Dear Specs,
Is it okay to kiss on the first date?
Cant Wait
Dear Cant Wait,
Of course not. That is completely inappropri
ate behavior. A first date should revolve 
around an activity like a movie, dinner, drinks, 
theatre, opera, etc. Inviting someone for kiss
ing will not only tarnish your reputation, it 
will also insult the person being asked. In this 
culture we assume that there is more to social 
interaction than kissing.
As you conclude your first date one of you 
may infer that you would like to spend more 
time together in the future. At this point a 
handshake is completely apropos. If the eve
ning was wildly exciting, a cheek may be 
proffered for a kiss. If it was ethereal, a fond 
embrace, or enthusiastic slap on the back is 
perfect.
Of course there is an exception to the rule: 
You are both under the impression that you 
have been on a date with the next Messiah. The 
evening was blissful and enlightening. Moved 
by an incredible passionate attraction, neither 
of you can help but lay your reputations on the 
line. Magnetically drawn together, his pearly 
lips bestow a kiss upon her forehead, hand, or 
ring. This is a case of the heart ruling the mind.
Specs
continued on page 20
SS4vXvXWX^Xv;

---------------------------------------------------

Whats
New
at
Carnegie
Mellon?
Noon-1 p.m. 
Tuesday, 
April 19, 1988 
Wherretl Room, 
Skibo
This semesters final session of 
Whats New at Carnegie 
Mellon? will take place from 
noon to 1 p.m. on Tuesday, April 
19, in the Wherrett Room of 
Skibo. The series of informal 
meetings discusses issues of 
concern to the campus com
munity and is open to faculty, 
staff and students.
The topics and speakers:
 A New Era for Fraternities 
and Sororities? Speaker:
Ronald J. Campana, director of 
Greek Affairs.
 Physical Plant: Preparing for 
the Future.
Speaker: Frederick A. Rogers, 
vice president, Business Affairs.
 H&SS Expanding Role In 
the University. Speaker: Joseph 
E. Devine, assistant dean H&SS.
A question period follows the 
presentations.
Please bring your lunch or pur
chase one from Scotland Yard. 
Public Relations will provide free 
soda, coffee and tea.
The most exciting 
few hours 
youll spend all week,
Run. Climb. Rappel. Navigate. Lead.
And develop the confidence and skills you wont get from a textbook.
Enroll in Army ROTCas one of your electives. Get the facts
today.
Enroll 30-204 Self Development 
& Military Skills 
For More Information call x2205___________
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS
emi/iuccEc cmmmuv
FRIDA*} APRIC 15 
12:00 naan
FACllCC CHUB 
SKIBO KACC ROOfll 100
GUESC SPEAKER: 
CHARGES ACCEN JR.
*0 AUCIIOR, COnUllUNieASOR 
ON UE mcvthwz AND UDN 
OF 11) AR CaiffiES AND CRIMINAL
RESERVATIONS A mUSS
CACC RABBI JOE-621-8875

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage 17
Make a new societx in 60 seconds...
Reconstruction: Somebodys gotta do it
Soviet Premier Mikhail Gorbachev has a 
great job. Hes actually restructuring an entire 
society. Can you imagine having the job of re
structuring a society? I can.... Id have a lot of 
business cards printed up saying Bob Glickstein  Society Reconstructurer and at par
ties Id act suave and stare at my fingernails 
H&id toss off comments like, Oh, yes, I am re
structuring society.
60 SECONDS
* WITH BOB GLICKSTEIN
Id tackle the problem of crowding in the 
cities. In densely populated areas, I would only 
permit the television stations to play Diffren: 
Strokes. That way, great masses of people 
would move to, say, the Midwest, where I 
would permit the television stations to play 
Wheel of Fortune.
^Then, of course, as Society Restructure^ Id 
have to do something about Spam. I bought my 
first can of Spam just this week and stared at it 
for a long time (days) before I managed to 
work up the courage to open it. Have you ever 
tried Spam? I dont know what to make of the 
stuff. (Just pull tab and the loaf of Spam will
slide out, ready to eat, hot or cold.) Im not 
sure if, as Society Restructure^ Id have to ban 
it, or make it mandatory. I suspect the latter. 
Spam is just too funny to ban. Ill also have to 
do something about the Weekly World News.
I would make it illegal for anyone to tele
phone someone who is just outside their door 
and fumbling for their keys. The penalty 
would be six months in jail, with an extra six 
months if the offender hung up just as the 
victim ran inside, dropped groceries all over 
the place and picked up the phone. There 
would, of course, be associated laws govern
ing calling people who are in the shower, etc.
I would probably take advantage of my po
sition to impose one or two of my personal 
tastes on society (since Id be the Society 
Restructure^ what the hell) and make laws 
like Read The Phantom Tollbooth* once a 
year, and See The Adventures of Robin 
Hood ** twice a year.
Now, restructuring society is not all fun and 
games as it may sound. One must provide for 
the elderly, the infirm and the indigent. One 
must concern oneself with the economy, 
something about which I admittedly know 
very little. And one has to worry about main
taining a civil defense and generally keeping 
law and order everywhere. I would solve all 
these problems simply by building a lot more 
Disneylands. Disneylands are the answer. The 
proceeds can go to the elderly, the infirm and 
the indigent. The economy would be healthy 
thanks to the tourist trade. And there would be 
no one to defend civilians againstevil for
eigners and other would-be bad guys would be 
spinning around in a giant teacup on the Mad 
Hatters Tea Party ride. Or watching the ef
feminate Captain EO and his sparkling glove.
* By Norton Juster.
** The 1938 version starring Errol Flynn.
Committee selects four scholars
By DARLENE FOZARD
Tartan Staffwriter
Four juniors were recently selected to be 
Andrew Carnegie Scholars. Scholars are 
chosen through a program that has been 
awarding outstanding performance in jun
iors from each college since the 1974-75 
school year.
This years recipients are Christopher 
Williams from CIT, Kimberly Ann 
Orsbom from MCS, Steven Paul Ledbetter 
from CFA, and Natalie Lynn Capone from 
H&SS. They were selected from a group of 
22 juniors from the university. Students are 
nominated by their respective department 
heads.
According to Dolores Hunter, who along 
with Jay Carson is in charge of the selection
process, Those named meet with the An
drew Carnegie Society as a body. They 
receive a wristwatch and a medallion at the 
annual meeting. Next year at the annual 
meeting they receive a $1,000 cash 
award.
The ACS has a committee made up of 
ACS members and alumni of the univer
sity. The selection is based on academic 
records and a 15 minute interview with 
members of the group. The process takes 
all day. Christopher Williams, the chosen 
CIT junior, submitted a list of activities 
pursued here at Carnegie Mellon and went 
through the interview process.
Once selected, the students become 
members of the ACS scholar program and 
are known as Andrew Carnegie Scholars.
Student Pugwash 
sponsors lecture
The recently established Student Pugwash 
organization is sponsoring a lecture today in 
the Adamson Wing at 4:30 pm, followed by 
refreshments. The lecture, entitled Drug 
Screening and Jobs: Should Your Placement 
Folder Include a Specimen Bottle?, will 
address questions such as Do you know your 
civil rights as an employee? and Are you 
ready to enter a job world drug free?
Speakers will include Steve Fulton, lawyer 
with Reed, Smith, Shaw and McClay; Tom 
Kerr, a GSIA professor; Marion Damiek of 
the American Civil Liberties Union; and Greg 
McRae, a professor with Chemical Engineer
ing and Engineering and Public Policy.
I*
PRESIDENTS
Distinguished Lecture Series
George W. Ross
Morris Hillquit Professor of Labor and Social Thought, 
Brandis University
will present a lecture on
The European Left Faces the 21st Century 
 Perils and Prospects
Tuesday, April 19, 1988 
3:30 p.m. 
Wherrett Room, Skibo HallFree and open to the Public

---------------------------------------------------

m
You dont want to miss out on this years book! 
With 320 pages, 70 of which are in full color, 
our new Art Gallery, and of course, pictures of
of all your friends!
__________________________________________
The 1988 Thistle Yearbooks
will be pre-sold during the period from 
Tuesday, April 12 through Thursday April 14
10:00am through 4:00pmC? JL
In front of Doherty Hall
(If it rains we'll move it into Baker Hall)
Buy your yearbook now!
The end of the year is coming soon 
this may be our last sale.
We sold out last year, 
so dont put off buying your copy, 
or you just might not get
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------

I
For the rest of this week, Spring Carnival will be 
using all of the areas in front of SKIBO. The per
mit holders of these areas have received permits 
for replacement parking. Only the people that 
have permits for Forbes Avenue may park there 
before 4 pm Tue. - Fri. People who do not dis
play the permits may be ticketed by the City of 
Pittsburgh. We reccomend that if public trans
portation is available, it be taken. Sorry for the 
inconvenience, thank you for your cooperation.
SPRING CARNIVAL COMMITTEE
WANTED
Summer instructors & Course
Assistants
June 22 through July 29, 1988
To teach the following: Economics
Calculus
Pre-Calculus
Physics
Chemistry
Statistics
Academically strong juniors and seniors, 
and graduate students should apply.
INQUIRE: 410 Margaret Morrison Building 
Ms. Doris Haines, Ext. 2153
CAR RENTAL
ALSO DBA HOLIDAY' PAYLESS* RENT-A-CAR   * . F-1. nciN l--LWI
Our Name Says It All .
 LOW Dailv - Wooklu Qatar
521-5700
5600 Wilkins Ave.
Pgh. Pa. 15217 
(Squirrel Hill)
Weekend SpecialsLow Daily - Weekly Rates 
 * Must be 21 or over 
1  Most Major Credit Cards Accepted
(Students* and Parents' cards accepfrd.)
15 and 7 Passenger Vans available also 
1/2 mile from Campus 
Worldwide lol Resen/atiore 
1-800*237*2804 or CM Ybur fravei AgentWtJmtmmtFunb&Mktrfimtc
RVniLflBLE NOW 
ON VDEO TRPE!
send $22 to: 
John Mateer 
3804 Duval St. 
Rus tin, TX 78751
(ck, m.o. or COD)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanApril 12,1988
...........................
The Hunt Institute for 
Botanical Documenta
tion presents its 6th 
International Exhibi
tion of Botanical Art 
and Illustration, featur
ing works by 93 interCITY LIGHTS
* . Thursday, April 14
jpjli The Grand Opening
of the Fifth Avenw 
Place starts at 12:30pm with a 50,000piece 
balloon, confetti and nerf ball release. 
Other festivities are scheduled later in the
22. The Gallery is at407 South Craig Street Friday, April 15
in Oakland. Haywood Bums, Dean of the City Uni verCitiparks Urban Gardening Center is sity of New York Law School at Queens
holding a contest to encourage Pittsburgh College, will speak on The Civil Rights
area gardeners to share their gardening Movement: Past, Present, and Future a'
knowledge as a part of National Gardening 4:00 pm. Free. For more information, call
Week, April 10-16. Enter by submitting 648-1400.
gardening tips to the Gardening Center and Saturday, April 16
become eligible to win prize packets from -The AffordableFloors Album DebutParty
area nurseries and garden centers. The best will be held at Graffiti, 4615 Baum Blvd.,
ideas will be used by the Gardening all ages at 7:00 pm, over 21 at 10:00 pm.
Centers demonstration garden. For more Tuesday, April 19
information call 422-6532. The Society for Art and Crafts will hold
North Hills Village Mall is sponsoring a the second part of a three part seminar, The
series of training clinks for the Pittsburgh Art of SelfPromodon: Basic Business PrinMaraihon on April 7, 14, 21 and 28th. ciples for Artists. The second part is enSpeakers are different each week and will titled Perspectives from Artists  featurcover a variety of topics. All clinics are ing area artists, a designer, and a photografree. For more info call 366-2250. pher discussing their approach to business
Wednesday, April 13 problems related to art. The seminar will be
The Historical Society of Western Pennat the Manchester Craftsmans Guild from
sylvania presents Two Centuries of 6:00-8:00 pm. The seminar costs $4.00 for
Change in Pittsburgh, a lecture by Dr. students and $5.00 for others. Registration
Samuel Hays, Distinguished Service Proby calling the Society for Art and Crafts at
fessor of History at the University of Pitts261-7003.
burgh, at the Historical Society Building, Compiled by TERENCE SPIES
1Features Plus.
April 26, 1988.
Feeling ignored? Specs can help
continued from page 15
Dear Specs,
I am being ignored by someone I like. I 
thought he liked me too but now he just acts 
like Im invisible.
What should I do?
Dear What,
Thats a sad story. Feeling neglected and 
worthless is the worst. There are two options 
open to you at this point.
You can mimic this juvenile behavior your
self and fail to acknowledge the criminal when 
you see him. Although this will save you from 
the embarrassment of grinning, waving and 
yelling Hi Whassup? and receiving no reTheyre his brain cells, not yours. Its very impolite to accuse someone of using them up too fast, or wasting them.
sponse, it will also make you a third grader. To 
avoid appearing completely retarded employ 
the second solution.
Go Contra! Fight for your rights  if he 
ignores you, rebel. Buy yourself some ammu
nition, a ticket to the movies, a skirt, or some 
new stockings. Aggressively search for enter
tainment and amusements. Terrorize the so
cial world and have fun. That old milk toast 
that is ignoring you will probably come to the 
realization that hes the one missing out. When 
he approaches you with a peace contract, take 
your time negotiating an agreement.
That way, you can continue getting financial 
or friendly aid from someone else.
Specs
Dear Specs,
1 really want a girlfriend but cant get one.
Any Suggestions
Dear Any,
Im sure you can find something in the vast 
Under 16 selection during Spring Carnival this 
week.
Specs
Dear Specs,
I think my friend smokes a lot of marijuana 
but I dont know for sure. How should I get him 
to stop?
Worried
Dear Worried,
Stopping him from smoking is really not up 
to you. Theyre his brain cells, not yours. Its 
very impol ite to accuse someone of using them 
up too fast, or wasting them. If you saw him 
eating a Hershey bar you wouldnt snatch it 
from his fingers and scream you are eating 
that so fast that its a waste of time and 
money. At that rate, youll be obese by the 
time youre twenty-five.
But if you implore your friend to quit the evil 
weed you will be doing just that. Try to respect 
his privacy  its his business, not yours.
Specs
Dear Specs,
My roommate is being unfaithful to her boy
friend. Should I tell him or not? I feel so badly 
 hes a great guy.
Dont Know
Dear Dont Know,
Unless you and your roommate are having 
the adulterous romance together, dont tell 
him. If you are, and you want to include him in 
the activities, then you must tell him. If you 
must get involved in the excitement, announce 
that you have a burning desire for him, her, or 
both. That'll clear things up!
Specs
4338 Bigelow Blvd. 
Oakland. Admission is 
free for Society mem
bers, $2.00 for nonmembers. Cali 681- 
5533 for more infor'*** tz
(W 'J iis K Mtt
U L Tx T / U *T\ 3 
 ? '& 
h LTl'S 
to ftznmz .
fit
h U tz 3ft <7> tf v * * fc it 
Ttfo e*fT\ 3BT 
S-fr }&' 
ttz*?)\s
Tl'ito
RECRUIT CO., LTD. has 
been instrumental in the 
development of Japans 
information service industry.
In RECRUITS Tokyo, Los 
Angeles and New York offices, 
challenging work in such 
fields as telecommunications, 
super-computing and 
publishing awaits you.
TEC/
tinA
FOR MORE INFORMATION. CALL OUR TOLL-FREE NUMBERS OR WRITE TO :
RECRUIT U.S.A., INC.
65 E. 55th St. 34th Floor 725 S. Figueroa St., 31st Floor
New York, NY 10022 Los Angeles, CA 90017
(212) 750-6100 (N.Y.) (800) 325-9759
(800) 782-7856 (Other States)
Both Attention to TWR-TG COORDINATOR
The Best Place In Town For A Wing Out!
Mike Kalina-Pgh. Press
Over a Dozen Sauces 
From Mild-Mild to Death Sauce!!
Open 3:30 p.m. T H till 10:30 
F S till 11:30 
Open Sundays * till 8:30.
CALL:421-WING
Our Rjbs?
Best in the City
Mariania Cosst lo-Cosst Dining Guide
RIB HOUSE
MURRAY 
AVENUE 
(SQ. HILL)
Ribs  Chicken  Barbecue
2125
I

---------------------------------------------------

FEEL GOOD AND LOOK GOOD... REGISTER FOR A PHYSICAL 
EDUCATION CLASS, APRIL 13 & 14
PHYSICAL EDUCATION REGISTRATION
DATES: APRIL 13 & 14, 1988 
PLACE : BAKER HALL, ACROSS FROM THE ACADEMIC 
ADVISORY CENTER 
TIME: 9:00am - 4:00pm
All graduate and undergraduate students including freshmen CIT and MCS students may register for 
Physical Education Courses. Physical Education Courses are 6 units each and include:
RACQUETBALL 
WEIGHT TRAINING FOR MEN 
WEIGHT TRAINING FOR WOMEN 
CPR/FIRST AID 
GOLF 
AEROBICS
BEGINNERS SWIMMING
FOR MORE INFORMATION CALL: 268^2211
SWIMMING
ADVANCED LIFE SAVING 
KARATE
PERSONAL FITNESS
TENNIS
VOLLEYBALL
INTERMEDIATE SWIMMING
ST1IDP.NT SENATE RINDING & RECOGNITION COMMITTEE 
SPRING 1988 RF.PORT TO ALL ACmvmES FEE PAYING STUDENTS
As required by the Student Senate Fiscal Policy, I, Tamal Mukheijee, respectfully submit the summary of subsidy allocations that the Funding & Recognition Committee will recommend to the Student Senate at 7:00 pm on Tuesday, April 12,1988, at the Wherrett Room in Skibo. Representatives of all organizations listed below are required to be present at the meeting.
Organization NameSubsidyActivities Board$162,742Activities Fair$2,860Astronomy Club$710Baseball Club$2,340Carnegie Tech Radio Club$1,820Chinese Student Organization$860Computer Club$4,220Explorers Club$1,459Forbes Gallery$6,400Gay & Lesbian Alliance$754Gaming Club$715Hockey Club$8,915Kiltie Band$4,238Korean Student Organization$351Men's Lacrosse Club$1,300Rugby Club* $1,040Spirit$3,840Student Alumni Relations Council$965Student Corp$1,596Student Senate$14,800Tartan$34,000WRCT$39,054
TOTAL$293,079
All Activits Fee paying students are invited to come to the meeting and participate in the allocation process. I would like to take this opportunity to express my appreciation to the members of the Funding & Recognition Committee, and especially to Dean Cox, for all the work they have done in making this a succesful semester for the committee.
TAMAL MUKHERJEEChairman, Funding & Recognition Comm.
PS: This will be my sixth and final term as Chairman of the committee. I would like to thank all the organizations for their cooperation and I hope everyone had as much fun as I did.
V

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanApril 12,1988
Play ball Pittsburgh!
The Tartan brings you Pirate pre-season hardball
his fielding.
Jose turns a lot of 2-run singles into routine 
outs, said stopper Jim Gott, a prime benefici
ary of Linds glove.
It is a testimony to Linds defense that the 
near-rookies claim on second base went 
unquestioned despite batting under .200 this 
spring and missing a week of training due to 
the illness of his father.
Ill be happy if Lind hits .270, said 
Leyland. He may hit .300 someday, but thats 
an unfair expectation this year.
With all of Thrifts emphasis on developing 
talent within the organization, it is interesting 
to note that four of his five starting pitchers 
were acquired from other teams. Bob Walk, 
the eldest at 31, debuted with the Phillies; 
Mike Dunne came from the Cardinals; and 
Doug Drabek and Brian Fisher were acquired 
from the Yankees in exchange for Rick Rho
den. Drabek was up and down with the Yanks, 
but Jim Leyland put the righty in the Pirate ro
tation and stuck with him during a 1-8 start. 
Drabek responded after the All-Star break, 
finishing 10-4 and earning NL Pitcher of the 
Month honors in August.
Although Fishers turnaround was less dra
matic, it was real. Misused in New York, the 
26 year-old produced when he was given a 
chance to start regularly.
This is a good environment to pitch in. I 
know Jim Leyland and [pitching coach] Ray 
Miller have confidence in me, so I can relax 
and just concentrate on pitching a good game, 
commented Fisher.
1988 will be the acid test for the Pirate 
rotation. Dunne, Fisher and Drabek have each 
only started regularly for one season, and John 
Smiley is making his major league starting 
debut this week. More than any other position, 
young pitchers are prone to be disappoint
ments one good season does not necessarily 
mean five or ten more like it. If Dunne, Drabek 
and Fisher can put together second consecu
tive good years, the Pirates will be set in the 
pitching department.
:jc if:
Vincente Palacios was a pitcher going no
where. Originally signed by the White Sox 
organization, Palacios was given his release 
and drifted to.the Mexican League, where he 
wasnt any more successful. Clearly, if he 
wanted to play baseball for a living, the Mexi
can right-hander had to make some changes.
Every team works constantly and devoutly to improve hitting. Batting practice in Brad
enton was an early indicator of how well the Pirates would do offensively.
And changes he made. He went from a 5-14 
season to 13-5 and a 2.58 ERA over the course
of one year. The secret? A mysterious new 
pitch that is best described as a split-fingered 
forkball. Palacios led the PCL in earned run 
average, shutouts, strikeouts and innings 
pitched.
I never doubted my ability, said Palacios. 
But without my pitch, I would be back in 
Mexico.
Palacios has earned a spot in the bullpen. A 
starter by trade, he is ticketed for long relief but 
could step into the rotation if injuries or the 
sophomore jinx strikes. Joining Palacios will 
be Barry Jones and Bob Kipper, the sole lefty 
reliever. Interestingly, both of the Bucs short 
relief men, Jim Gott and Jeff Robinson, are 
both right-handed, a fact that concerns some, 
but not GM Thrift.
Robinson has that equalizer, said Thrift, 
referring to the relievers split-fingered fast
ball. With that pitch, it doesnt matter what 
side of the plate you bat on.
The prime catcher of the Bucs young pitch
ing staff is Mike LaValliere, entering only his 
second full season in the National League.
But Lavalliere proved himself in 1987 with 
both the bat and the glove after coming from 
the Cardinals in the April Fools Day trade for 
Tony Pena. He hit .300, but like many Pirates 
showed little power (only one homer.) LaValphoto by John Friedmann
Jose Lind and Rafael Belliard in practice at the Pirates spring home, McKechnie Field.
liere would like to hit .300 again this season, 
but he is not obsessed with the mark.
Sure, it would be nice to hit .300 again,said 
the catcher, who has acquired the nickname 
Spanky for his resemblance to the TV charac
ter of the same name. But what is most 
important is that the team wins ballgames.
The biggest indication of LaVallieres su<] 
cess came after the season, when he was 
awarded a Gold Glove for his work behind the
Ill be happy if Lind hits .270.
 Pirate Manager Jim Leyland
plate. It was an honor I didnt even dream 
about, especially in my first season playing a,, 
the time.
Also seeing work behind the plate will be 
veteran backup Junior Ortiz. Besides playing 
when LaValliere needs a rest, Ortiz should 
start against some left-handed pitchers, a 
group LaValliere hit only .221 against last 
season.
Two final keys for the Pirates are the Kills 
Bs, Barry Bonds and Bobby Bonilla.
If the Pirates have a headline player, it is 
Barry Bonds. The leftfielder showed a rare 
combination of speed (32 stolen bases) and 
power (25 homers) in his first full season in the 
big leagues. Bonds is a serious contender to 
put together a 30 SB - 30 HR season, especially 
if he can raise his average from .261. The 
.leftfielder, only 23, bats lead-off despite h\ 
power because manager Jim Leyland lacks a 
real lead-off man.
In addition to his prowess at the plate, Bonds 
is one of the top leftfielders in the league. 
Along with Van Slyke, the pair can more than 
overcome whatever glove skills the rightfielder lacks.
Bobby Bonilla occupied that right-field spot 
for a while last year, but moved in as th 
everyday third baseman once Jim Morrison 
was traded to the Tigers. Despite allegations 
that the outfielder-tumed-third baseman fields 
like an outfielder at third base, Bonilla has 
been concentrating on his glove work.
Improving in the field has been my main 
objective this spring, said Bonilla. Its a lot 
easier now that Im settled at one position.
What makes Bonilla dangerous is his be 
however. His .300 average was good for tenth 
in the National league, and he complemented 
it with 15 homers and 77 RBIs. He has power 
from both sides of the plate, becoming the first 
Pirate to homer from both righty and lefty in 
the same game last season. The third baseman 
has already repeated the feat this season.
All this potential remains to be seen.
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Contributing Editor
Dont even try to predict where the Pitts
burgh Pirates will finish this year. The ex
perts dont even agree. It could be first, last, 
or anywhere in between. There are a few estab
lished players on the Bucs, but so much poten
tial that the results in 1988 could set a pattern 
well into the 1990s.
This is a key year for General Manager Syd 
Thrifts youth movement. All of the over
priced and under-motivated veterans are gone, 
replaced by fuzzy faced kids glad for a chance 
to play in the majors. The old man on the team, 
32 year-old first baseman/pinch hitter Dave 
Hostetler, is back from a two-year stint in 
Japan and playing for the major league mini
mum of $62,500. The highest paid player in a 
Pirates uniform is outfielder Andy Van Slyke, 
who, at age 27, is making $850,000.
GM Thrift scoured the league all winter for a 
right-handed power hitter. On March 26, he 
signed Randy Milligan, a 26 year-old first 
baseman who slammed 29 home runs last year 
in the International league and just missed 
winning that circuits triple crown.
We have been trying to obtain Randy Milli
gan from the Mets since the end of last sea
son, said GM Thrift. If Randy realizes half
photo by John Friedmann
Jim Leyland giving a little prize to loyal fans 
who made the trip to see spring training.
his potential, we wont have to worry about 
right-handed power for a long time. 
Milligan quickly made his mark, hitting over 
.500 in his first week with the team. Milligan 
will platoon with left-hand hitting Sid Bream 
at first base, but may be given a chance to make 
the job all his own.
The Mets had Keith Hernandez, Gary Car
ter and Barry Lyons all ahead of me at first 
base, recalled Milligan. Im overjoyed to 
come to the Pirates. This is the perfect situ
ation for me.
*****
It wasnt until the last weekend of spring 
training that A1 Pedrique found out he would 
be the Pirates opening-day shortstop. The 28 
-year old Venezuelan was elated. Like Milli
gan, an escapee from the Mets organization, 
Pedrique finally got his break with the Pirates 
last season after toiling eight years in the minor 
leagues. He responded well, hitting .294 and 
playing solid defense, and did the same in the 
spring to earn the starting nod.
It was his job to lose, said manager Jim 
Leyland. What he did last year gives him first 
shot at the job.
*****
One man whose hitting skill may be irrele
vant is second baseman Jose Lind. Although 
he hit .322 in 35 late-season games with the 
Pirates after Johnny Ray was dealt to the 
Angels, most of the raves about Lind concern

---------------------------------------------------

ScoreboardIM News
The next and final IM Board Meeting will be 
held Thursday, April 21st, at noon in the Gym 
Conference Room.
SPORTS IN SEASON

Pinochle
Commissioner Pete Gaertner x5516 
Please play all matches as scheduled, and call 
all results in to Pete.
Water Basketball
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509 
The water basketball lifeguard will be John 
Render, x4552. The final call for Water Bas
ketball is this week. Get your team rosters in.
Table Tennis
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
The playoffs have started. Please report all 
scores to the IM office.
Team Call Pool and Individual Call Pool
Commissioner Andy Segal x4436 
Please play all matches as scheduled and 
report all results to Commissioner Segal. 
Playoff matches are listed on the IM Bulletin 
Board.
Indoor Soccer
Commissioner A1 Margarella x5516 
Playoffs will start this week. Check the IM 
^ulletin Board for the full playoff schedule.
Weight Lifting
Commissioner Keith Gorse x2222 
This is the last call for Weight Lifting, so get 
your entry in. All competitors will begin lift
ing this week.
Softball
^lajors - Pat Jefferies x4299 
intermediate - Stu Fox x4226 
Minors and Women - Stephanie Janczak 
x4229
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM Office. Please make sure to circle the win
ning team on the score sheet. Pat Jefferies will 
be in charge of this event beginning April 8th 
thru the 13th.
^barts
Commissioner Bob Moses 683-8409 
Finals will be played this week.
SPORTS COMING UP
Fencing
Commissioner Cyle Sprick x4668 
Entries were due March 30th. Matches will 
T>e held Monday, April 11th and Tuesday, 
April 12th at 5 pm in Thistle Hall. Post entry 
will be held.
Triathlon
Commissioner Mrs. Morosky x2075 
Entries are due on April 20th at 4:30 pm. The 
meet will be held on April 30th, and will 
consist of a 400 yard swim, a 10 mile bike leg, 
%* a 3.1 mile run. Entry fee is $15.00 per 
team. Get your team lined up now.
IM Track Meet
Commissioner Mike Grzywinski 
The date for the 1988 IM Track Meet is set 
for April 21st. Individual as well as team 
competition will take place. Those interested 
should report to the track by 4:00 pm on April 
^1. Meet starts at 4:30 pm. Events will be 
posted on the IM Bulletin Board.
Frisbee
Commissioner Paul Drake 681-8703 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM Office.
THE IM TICKER....
The IM spring sports are just starting; get 
your teams signed up as soon as possible.
Last Wednesday night, the IM Floor Hockey 
finals were contested in Thistle Gym. The 
finals brought the two best teams in each 
league, and by the play on the floor, these 
teams were clearly the best.
In the first game, the minors championship 
pitted AFROTC against Pi Lambda Phi. The 
game was close throughout, mainly due to the 
play of both goalies, especially Pi Lams John 
Kerber. At the end of regulation, the score was 
tied at three apiece. In the first 30 seconds of 
overtime, AFROTCs Rich Nave broke in all 
alone on a power play for AFROTC and put a 
shot past Kerber for his third goal of the game 
to give AFROTC a 4-3 win. Nave was named 
the championship game MVP while teammate 
Dave Nardozzi was named league MVP.
The exciting minors championship was only 
a small indication of what was to come. The 
majors championship matched up The Boys of 
Bologna and Pond Scum. From the start, it 
was apparent this would be a high scoring 
affair. Within minutes, both teams had 
marked up two goals. The game remained 
close the whole way, with Pond Scums big
gest lead being two goals. With less than two 
minutes remaining, Pond Scums John Reese 
scored on a blistering slapshot to make the 
score 6-5 Pond Scum. With only four seconds 
remaining on the clock, The Boys of Bologna 
were able to get a goal to tie the game at six and 
send the game into overtime.
In the extra stanza, there was furious end to 
end action. With three minutes gone in the 
period, Pond Scums Jim Murdoch came up 
with the save of the game and sprung Kevin 
Murtha on a break away down the floor. 
Murtha put a shot into the upper comer of the 
net to give Pond Scum a hard fought 7-6 win. 
The IM Floor Hockey All Star Team was also 
named last week, headed up by MVPs John 
Reese of Pond Scum and Dave Nardozzi of 
AFRTOC. Other members of the All Star 
Teams were:
Majors
Rich Gareis - Pond Scum 
Tony Abenante - Boys of Bologna 
Paul Masalsky - Boys of Bologna 
Rob Schlackman - Phi Kap 
Dan Freed - Mexican Earthquakes 
Minors
John Kerber - Pi Lam 
Rich Nave - AFROTC 
John Blackwood - Sig Tau 
Jim White - Moose Jaw Warriors 
Stu Fox - AEPi
PAC GOLF 
TOURNAMENT
School Strokes
John Carroll 411
Grove City 438
Wash&Jeff. 439
Carnegie Mellon 440 
Hiram 446
Thiel 448
Bethany 469
The tournament was held at the Sugarbush course in Garrettsville, Ohio near 
Hiram.
John Carrolls Tom Pilewski led all 
players with a 78 finishing 6 over par.
All the schools were represented by 6 
players. Jeremy Savian and Don Michel 
from Carnegie Mellon each shot an 89.
Next is the UAA Toumey at Roches
ter on Thursday and Friday.
d
IM Standings
SOFTBALLPOOL-H W L
MINORSPi Lam 0 0
POOL-AWLHistory Grads 0 1
ECE Field Effects00Mr. Doughboys Softballs 1 0
AEPi01
Woodstock10POOL-I W L
CIA 1 0
POOL-BWLSloshball 88 0 1
Enforcers00Roselawn 1 0
TKB10Genius of Jimi 0 1
Them-01
INDOOR SOCCER PLAYOFFS
POOL-CWLCommissionerA1 Margarella x5516
Theta-Xi00
APHIO01Monday, April 18
Ripple Express106:00 MINORS Semi-Finals 
7:00 MINORS Semi-Finals
POOL-DWL8:00 INT. Quarter-Finals
Pioneers009:00 INT. Quarter-Finals
Madjick01
K-Mart Shop10Wednesday, April 20
7:00 MAJORS Semi-Finals
POOL-EwL8:00 MAJORS Semi-Finals
The Vacuum00
Kapp Sig-BI0Thursday, April 21
SDC017:00 MINORS Championship 
8:00 INT. Semi-Finals
POOL-FWL9:00 INT. Semi-Finals
Sig Tau00
ECE Optks F&F10Monday, April 25
Lonesome Losers0I7:00 INT. Championship 
8:00 MAJORS Championship
POOL-GWL
KSA00Note: Next week. Scoreboard will hav
Clydemonsters10the final rosters for IM Hockey AllConfused Children01Star Team.
THE DEPARTMENT OF ATHLETICS 
ANNOUNCES
MW IBKDTUIES
MON.FRI.: 7:00 a.m.  12 a.m. 
SAT.: 10:00 a.m.  9:30 p.m. 
SUN.: 10:00 a.m.  10:30
 All recreational activity 
must stop one-half hour prior 
to gymnasium closing times.

---------------------------------------------------

Track teams come up short in separate meets
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Sports Editor
The school track teams saw a lot of action 
over the weekend. The men went to the 
Mens PAC Relays at Grove City on Satur
day, while the women went to the Hiram 
Invitational.
The womens team did quite well in their 
meet, setting two new school records in the 
process.
Leslie Williams set a new school record 
for Carnegie Mellon in the 100 meter 
hurdles with a time of 16.03, beating her 
own record of 16.08. This time earned her 
3rd place in the meet.
The schools high jump record also fell. 
Lisa Schmidt jumped 4 10 and earned 6th 
place. This beat the old record of 48 set by 
Lina Weidlinger in 1987.
Also for the women, Julia Wright had a 
fine outing by finishing first in the 400 
meter run with a time of 1:13.9.
In the 3000 meter run Sue Johnson, Pat 
Fall, and Lynn Truskie finished one-twothree, respectively, for the Tartans.
The ladies finished in second place over
all with 89 points, 5 behind first place 
Grove City, in the Hiram Invitational. The 
other competing schools finished with 
Youngstown State in 3rd (85 points), 
Duquesne (81), Hiram (56), John Carroll 
(52), Thiel (33) and Geneva (1).
The Carnegie Mellon women will play 
host to a meet Thursday in which Duquesne 
and Robert Morris will be the guests.
On the mens side, for the 3rd straight 
year, Grove City won the Mens relays, this 
year with a score of 116 points. Carnegie 
Mellon placed second (also for the 3rd 
straight year) with 107 points.
The other teams finished in the following 
order: John Carroll (49), Washington & 
Jefferson (47), Hiram (31), Thiel (21) and 
Bethany (19).
Carnegie Mellon has won this meet 7 
times in the last 10 years, but Grove City 
has been coming on strong lately.
Surprisingly, Carnegie Mellon won 9 of 
the 14 running and field events while Grove 
City won only 5. However, the Tartans 
were disqualified from the shuttle hurdle 
when Bill Corcorans hand touched the 
hurdle as he went over.
Another setback came when Jeff Kochanowski faulted all three times on the long 
jump. Sports Director Bruce Gerson com
mented, Jeff is really a 400 meter run man. 
We needed someone to throw in [to com
pete in the long jump]. The team was still 
able to finish 6th in the event.
In addition, Grove City was the only team 
competing with a full pole vaulting team. 
Carnegie Mellon had no team at all while 
most other schools only had one or two 
vaulters competing.
The mens next meet will be at Grove 
City. This will be a dual meet where the 
Tartan track team will be able to go head to 
head with the Terriers in an effort to try and 
get back track.
The Tartan
PORT
IM  CLUBS  VARSITY  PROFESSIONAL
In Other Sports News...
The Pirates opened the season at home last night in the first 
sold out baseball game in the history of Three Rivers Stadium.
Sandy Lyle won the Masters Golf Classic in Augusta, Ga. He 
finished with a 281  7 strokes under par.
Martina Navratilova beat Gabriela Sabatini 6-1,4-6,6-4, to 
win the Family Circle Cup Tennis Tournament in Hilton 
Head. Navratilova has now won the event 3 times.
Tartan racquets off to a strong Spring start ^
Tennis takes 2 out of 3
Keith Grumet runs back for a deep lob in his singles match last Sunday. Grumet won in 
straight sets as his teammates contributed to the 6-3 defeat of Duquesne.
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Sports Editor
The Mens tennis team is off to a fine start in 
this early 1988 season. So far, the team has 
won two out of three matches and Coach Rich 
Scheines is very excited and optimistic about 
the rest of the season.
The team began the season on Monday, trav
eling down the block to take on Division I Pitt. 
Almost all of the matches played were very 
close, but the Tartans could not hold off the 
strong racquets of the Panthers. Pitt dumped 
Carnegie Mellon 8-1 (of the 9 matches played, 
a school needs to win 5 in order to win the 
overall team competition).
The Tartans #1 seed, Keith Grumet, lost in 
straight sets (7-5, 7-6) to Pitts Niel Meyerovich. In that match, Grumet had over 6 set 
points but lost them, according to Scheines.
Keith is a serve and volley player, said 
Scheines about the match. If he could have 
put the volley [shot] away, he would have 
won.
Scheines was a bit disturbed about having to 
play a team like Pitt in the teams first match of 
the season and before the team really had a 
chance to get some practice. That was [Pitts] 
14th match this season and they had been 
practicing since mid-January. We could have 
beaten them if we played them later in the 
schedule, said Scheines.
The loss did not fluster the team, however, as 
they went on to Hiram to beat the Terriers 7-2. 
Darin Kaplan (the #3 player) stood out in that
match, but the real excitement came from the 
#6 Tartan, Dave Dillon. Dillon lost in a tough 
singles match 7-6, 7-6 and has been nick
named: The Tie-Break Kid.
After this strong showing, the team wG 
ready to host Duquesne last Sunday in their 
first home match of the season. Rare, perfect 
weather allowed both teams to settle down and 
play some very fast and exciting tennis.
Grumet won his singles match 6-4,6-3 due to 
brilliant volleying close to the net. I played 
well even though my back was bothering me, 
he said after the match. He received the injury 
during a challenge match with #2 seed af ' 
doubles partner Graham McAfee.
Later that afternoon, though, the GrumetMcAfee duo won in doubles, 6-1, 6-4.
The Tartans won the overall match 6-3 after 
the Kaplan-Dillon team beat their doubles 
opponents handily, 6-1,6-0. This victory was 
the fifth of the day for the Tartans, so Coach 
Scheines could relax and enjoy the rest of the 
day.
Im very happy with my play so far, com
mented Kaplan who was also successful in his 
singles match earlier. All of the guys are 
playing very well.
We have very good balance on this team, 
Scheines added. Most schools have only one 
really good player, all of our guys play well. 
The team will go to Westminster on Thurs
day followed by a match at Thiel on Saturda* 
Its tough to travel, said Scheines, but they 
should be some very interesting matches.
Baseball drops two
By NATALIE HAWRYLUK
Assistant Sports Editor 
Despite the new pitching machine and other 
improvements made for the Spring 1988 sea
son, the Carnegie Mellon Baseball Club con
tinues its losing streak, losing two games last 
week, 9-5 and 3-0.
Saturday, the Tartans travelled to Freeport 
for a game against the Nittany Lions of Penn 
State - New Kensington. Offensively, the team 
managed only three hits and seven baserunners, but none of them came around to score.
We were hitting the ball well, but right at 
people, said junior second baseman Rich 
Bogdany. Their defense was good, but its 
not like they did anything out of the ordinary. 
The general consensus on the bench was that 
Penn States pitcher was not that good.
His [the pitchers] stuff was nothing spe
cial, continued Bogdany. If anything, the 
game was a pitchers duel.
Saturday afternoon was Rick Frances first 
time on the mound for the Tartans. He pitched 
well, recording six strikeouts and two walks in 
five complete innings.
Defensively, the Tartans played well, hold
ing Penn State to only three runs and commit
ting no errors. Senior shortstop Bruce Nibbelink made several sparkling defensive plays. 
Nibbelink saved a run in the fifth inning by 
lunging to his right, grabbing the ball and 
throwing out a runner at third to end the inning.
Junior first baseman Perry Pierce describes 
the play. It was a good play. It saved a run, and 
got us out of a potentially damaging inning. It 
also kept us in the game mentally.
Carnegie Mellon had a potential scoring op
portunity in the seventh inning when three
Tartans were given free trips to first base to 
load the bases. Three fly balls erased any 
chance of a run.
We couldnt get key hits at the right time, 
said Bogdany. If we had the pitch, we didnt 
hit it hard enough.
Penn State won the game 3-0.
The baseball clubs season opened with an 
away game against the Beaver County Com
munity College Titans on Wednesday after
noon. A major factor in the game was the 
weather. Drizzle and nasty winds prevailed 
throughout the afternoon. The game was 
called in the seventh inning due to the weather 
after the Titans hit two two-run homers to take 
the lead 9-5. Most of the team felt that the 
Tartans should have won.
Bogdany commented, We played really 
well considering that we hadnt played on the 
field as a team. It was only the second time that 
we had seen live pitching all season.
CCBC took an early lead, but Carnegie Mel
lon tied the score at five in its half of the sixth 
inning. Bogdany and senior John Reese had 
perfect outings, going 2 for 2 and scoring 2 
runs. The Tartans could have taken the lead; 
however, the go ahead run was thrown out at 
the plate trying to score from second base on a 
ground ball, ending the inning.
It was by far the best game we have played 
against them in my three years here, said 
Pierce. I know we surprised them. We could 
have won if the rain hadnt stopped us.
The baseball club continues its season with a 
double header against Division I Duquesne 
University on Wednesday at 1:00 pm at Mel
lon Park, and a contest at the University of 
Steubenville on Thursday at 6:00 pm.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
rVERSION
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
I INSIDE I
ProPfilennnnnnnnnnC,ga td
NewFcst 88 brings new music acts to CMU
lsf*lif888888888888888888888C,gat9
Pittsburgh Public presents Larry Kramers The Normal Heart
Chapman takes a few minutes of abuse at AB Lecture
By AMANDA COHEN 
Tartam Comedy Critic
Everybody knows who Monty Python is.
And those few who don't know can certainly 
recall having heard some particularly strange 
British sketch comedy at one point or another. 
They just may not realize that it was Monty 
Python. When Carnegie Mellon students dis> covered that an actual member of the legen
dary comedy troupe would be coming to speak 
at the Skibo Ballroom, no one was really sure 
what he would be speaking about Even when 
they learned his name, some werent even sure 
which one it was, because after all, who can 
keep all six Pythons straight?
But why bother keeping them all straight? 
Graham Chapman (the tall, blonde one) isnt 
4 Most people remember him for his Python 
portrayals of King Arthur, Brian, and other 
lesser goony characters, but the hundreds of 
students who saw him at Skibo on April 5th 
will remember him as the eloquent, subtly 
hilarious dangerous sportsman.
What everyone did seem to know was that 
one of Chapmans demands was that the audi
ence serve him thirty seconds of abuse before 
4 the talk. In forms ranging from nasty Monty 
Python quotes to projectile M&Ms, the abuse 
ran thick and zesty until the tall, thin gentle
man onstage said Thank you. That was excel
lent abuse, and it will certainly save a lot of 
time later on.
Although Chapmans campus appearance 
was co-sponsored by AB Lectures, the presen
tation was not a lecture. The Scotch V Sodat sponsored side was more evident. Through 
words and film clips, Chapman gave a sum
mary of what he had been doing with himself 
for the past few years. As a comedy writer, he 
turned a recitation of his history into an event 
that challenged the comedic content of even 
the best stand-ups this campus has seen. He 
told stories of his recent and not-so-recent 
experiences, and shared some intimate and 
( very funny anecdotes amassed from his years 
as Graham Chapman, Celebrity.
Among his Famous Friends was the late 
musician Keith Moon. Chapman first met 
Moon at a charity soccer game in England
called Monty Python vs. The World. Moon 
was playing on the side of The World, and in 
the middle of the game he astounded 
Chapman, and everyone else, by taking over 
the playing field in a car. After the game, he 
and Chapman went out for many, many, 
many, many, many, many, many drinks* and 
presently became good friends. It was 
that Moon taught Chapman a drinking 
which can only be described as 
cal.
Here Chapman touched on one of 
funny aspects of his busy pasthas 
ism. While there was humor in his 
Moon going out onto the ledge of 
building to steal a bottle of gin from 
room, there was also an eerie 
Chapman
his laughs iron letting the trugi in lines like 
facts into the most 
delivering 
that _
story live I
By
effective
Chapmans medical background led 
a skiing gondola for reasons of 
d slow to me. And 
parts  no nasty
he told were those of 
tttventures with the Dangerous 
Hub. They do things like jump from 
on pieces of elastic, and so on, he 
ained The Dangerous Sports Club found 
apman after he had off-handedly mento a British newspaper that he might 
ptjoy visiting the Andes mountains because 
& had done some mountaineering. I had a 
call that same day from someone called 
Kirk who claimed to be the chairman of
I warn 
admit it 
to become 
wanted ro do
said that' 
though he realized 
Moon had gone out 
the window, I was 
partway through a 
lager so I wasnt par
ticularly concerned.
As funny as the drinking tales may have been. 
Chapman has been sober for eleven years. He 
did not mention whether Keith Mona's death 
wasa factor in his decision to qua. As soon as 
he stopped drinking, he found that acting was 
not the horrible strain he had thought it to be. 
He could remember lines more easily, and 
getting to rehearsals became more enjoyabl 
Of course, getting to rehearsals often i 
getting up about six oclock every morning to 
go off to various damp street comers in Lon
don to dress up in often female attire and just 
get extremely cold doing silly things. During 
and after his Tuesday presentation, Chapman 
shared behind-the-scenes stories that added a 
new perspective to the material that everyone 
knows. For example, the Cheese Shop sketch 
was written, like many of the sketches 
Chapman wrote with John Cleese, by looking 
through a thesaurus for ideas. When he and 
Cleese hit upon the idea of a Ministry of Silly 
Walks, it happened to be around dare for 
lunch, so we called up Terry [Jones] and 
Michael [Palin] and they wrote toe sketch. 
Just like a stand-up comedian, Chapman got
more pace than 
laughter in Skibo 
scribed himself hurtling 
into the gondolas path 
second bump, we were 
broken leg ran through m 
survive the experience, howe 
that a good near-miss with 
for ones appreciation for life.
He didnt try another stunt 
when he allowed himself to be 
------------ bun
only thing gaining 
gondola was the 
as Chapman de 
gondola and 
By the
He did 
1 leaned
Goon," Chapman said sincerely^Ldjdnt twei 
self. I went on eventually to medical school 
r, but all jttMrilfflnRconsci 
comedyJ
: Dangerous Sports Club. And he wondered 
ifl would like to go hangliding over active vol
canos. In Ecuador. I said Mmmm... nnoooo 
.. / But I hadnt had many phone calls like 
that
Eventually he did join up with the club and 
soon found himself staggering up a 
in Ecuador. It is on the equator and if you1 
mountain after about eight oclock in 
(fee morning, the sun tends to melt the ice and 
snow above you, and it falls on you. So that 
made all the more interesting;, 
lar trip was halted early due to illness and the 
fact tiufi the leader had lost his way 
Fading pressured to take part in an aci
i sport, Chapman joined the club at a 
11 skiing event in Switzerland where 
stipulation was that there must be 
ig between thels&er and the skis, 
s linating all Wypr contmL 
Through Ihe magic of vie 
was able to witness voluntary hi 
germent through such sliding objects as 1 
bicycles, plaster horses, cars, wheelchairs, 
missiles, and giant, (Mange, inflatable eledan
do
the
hcnce
Performance art havoc takes over CFA
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Thursday evening, many people en
tering CFA were surprised to find a group of 
students working around and in a huge pile 
of, well, stuff, all stacked in the middle of the 
hall. The whole mess was part of a freeform 
artistic free for all called the Evolution 
Action project.
The project was designed to show the crea
tive process in action, and to show the his
tory of the work by involving larger num
bers of people in its creation than normal. 
About fifty different people worked inde
pendently on the sculpture, using the wood, 
rope, paper, and paint, among other materi
als, provided at the site. As a result, the 
structure had a very tenuous existence, 
changing its appearance as workers con
tinually built and rebuilt parts of the sculp
ture at whim.
In addition to the main sculpture, other re
lated events took place around the hall. A 
swing, hung from the right mezzanine, 
proved to be popular, as did the instrumental 
accompaniment from the mezzanine. Conphoto by Jeff Rosenblum
Everything, and the kitchen sink too: Evolution Action in the Main Hall of CFA.
sisting of a bass and electric guitar, as well as The project, captured on video tape, lasted 
a few metal cans for percussion, the sounds until about 8:00, when it was dismantled due 
produced fit the unoppressive spontaneity of to noise complaints and an impending conthe rest of the event. cert in Alumni Hall.
===== It 
Graham Chapman has become S 
entity rather than a sixth of 
While the troupe has not actually 1 
they did just release an album 
dubious title of The Final ] 
projects on all fronts,
P. 
the 
Wiiftsolo 
Python
ion does not appear file on toe horithough no one has nihil oat *e option, 
did take a few opffines to de
scribe the work of fellow Pythons.
Of Teny Gilliams movies, he said that he 
; however... what the hell 
was Brazil about? It looked good, but what did 
? He reported that words had never 
been GilKams strong soit, and that his next 
movie had bter contain a lot more of them
than Brazil did.;; 
liamonce< 
rior,
as he was, be 
improv, because i 
careful!
to Chapman, GilI tt the sight of Lake Supe,a whole bunch of water!** 
talc, Scotch n Soda enthem a pep-talk for 
i show scheduled 
As inspiring a speaker 
offer Hole advice on 
t of British rnrrty is 
however, describe to
the filming of Life of 
t when darkc&ds started rolling up just 
as people had been tiled to the crosses. We 
feought, This tone llve gone too far.
In an interview after be talk, Chaoppan said 
that he considers himsell a comedown ter first 
and foremost As a child, he listened to every 
piece ofcomedy he could fupd. I even listened 
to bad shows lofmd out wtfy they were bad... 
the whole process of comedy and why it works 
fascinated me." He found here that that the 
Amene comedy club scene is not conducive 
to his style. Ive heard all the jokes before,** 
he said.TMoet people have, but they seem to 
laugh merely because of the energy. 
Chapman's speaking presence requires more 
attention. WB|
At the imptessionable age of 13, Chapman 
discovered the Goon Show, a comedy troupe 
comfxxed of Spier Milligan, Harry Secombe, 
and Peter Seller*. I wanted to be a Goon," 
Chapman said flKerdy. I didn't admit it 
even to myself. I went on eventually to medi
cal school to become a doctor, but all the time* 
sub-consciously, what I warned to do was 
comedy."
After finding his way into the 
Footlights, a college theatrical 
like Scotch V Soda, Chapman discovered his

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanApril 12,1988
Normal Heart opens at Pgh. Public; 
CMUs Sankowich is director
By STEPHANIE REEDY
Tartan Staffwriter
Larry Kramers The Normal Heart, an in
tense drama based upon his real life effort to 
fight AIDS in the gay community of New 
York City, will open at the Pittsburgh Public 
Theatre on April 20th and run until May 
15th.
The Normal Heart originally opened in 
New York on April 21,1985, and holds the 
record as the longest running production to 
take place at Joseph Papps Public Theatre. 
In the original production, the theatre walls 
were painted flat white, with chilling AIDS 
epidemic statistics painted in black and 
crossed out as the numbers of victims grew 
larger. It is not known if the same set design 
will be used in the Pittsburgh production. 
Kramers play has received more than 
twenty awards, including an Olivier, the 
English equivalent of the Tony, and the 
George and Elisabeth Marton Award from 
the American Dramatists Guild.
The story revolves around Ned Weeks, an 
aggressive and outspoken writer who, after 
falling in love with a journalist named Felix, 
is forced to watch Felixs slow and painful 
death after he catches the AIDS virus. Ned 
channels his anger and pain into an effort to 
rally the support of the gay community in a 
fight against AIDS. He begins a support 
group called the Gay Mens Health Crisis, 
and begins to speak out against the lack of 
support and attention the government and 
health services have given to the danger of 
AIDS.
He denounces the government of New 
York City, particularly Mayor Koch, for
ignoring the problem, as well as members of 
the gay community for their sexual promis
cuity despite the increasing deaths resulting 
from the disease. He questions the dangers 
of the sexual habits of society, and advo
cates sexual abstinence for gays in particu
lar. He is continually blocked in his efforts 
by both homosexuals and heterosexuals, 
and the play explores his anger at a society 
that is slow to see the dangers of a fatal 
disease.
The Pittsburgh production of The Normal 
Heart will be directed by Lee Sankowich, 
whose most recent production was Mary 
Barnes on the CMU campus. Other plays 
directed by Sankowich at the Public Theatre 
include Vikings, Serenading Louie, The 
Real Thing, and Becoming Memories. 
William Rhys, a founding member and di
rector of The National Theatre for the Deaf, 
will play Ned Weeks. He has performed 
both on and off Broadway, and has served as 
actor, resident director, and Artistic Direc
tor for the Cleveland Playhouse.
Felix is played by Jim Abele, previously 
featured at the Public Theatre in The Hairy 
Ape and Edith Stein. Abele was nominated 
for Best Supporting Actor by the Bay Area 
Critics Circle for his performance in The 
Hairy Ape at the Berkeley Rep.
The Normal Heart is by no means a play 
meant only for members of the gay commu
nity. Audiences of all kinds gave the play 
standing ovations in New York. The play 
explores critical questions about the moral
ity and sexual behavior of American society 
in general, and is therefore aimed at all of its 
members.
Chapman speaks at lecture
WORLD-WISE T 1ravel oervice, |nc.3039 s*r/est L'lrtq Avenu P.O. B ox 7900 
Plttlxrrgk, I52I 
(412) 531-5555
To: Members of the CMU Community
From: Dave, Doris, Liz, and Mary
Date: April 12, 1988
Subject: Expanded Travel Services
After 30 years of service to the campus commu
nity, World-Wise Travel Service, Inc. has 
closed its Skibo office. We are ready, will
ing, and able to continue to provide the high 
quality travel services that you have come to 
expect. We will continue to accept all major 
credit cards, personal checks, and University 
Authorized Vouchers for travel purchases. Our 
services have been expanded to include daily 
and emergency ticket delivery to all campus and 
residence locations in the Oakland/Squirrel 
Hill Areas.
We thank you, faculty, staff, and students for 
the support you have given to us over the past 
years and hope that you will continue to call 
World-Wise Travel Service, Inc. for your per
sonal travel needs.
We remain,
Tart
continued from page DI
own comedic talents and came out into the 
comedy world. He ended up supporting his 
medical schooling by writing scripts for tele
vision and performing in cabarets. Now the 
official MD at the end of his name is a 
remnant of a great hobby.
In addition to a movie about the Dangerous 
Sports Club,Chapman is working on a sequel 
to his book, A Liar s Autobiography, which is 
about himself and his various confrontations 
with his alcoholism and his homosexuality.
Chapman prefers books to all of the other 
media for which he has written. I do love 
writing books. Its great because no one else 
comes in and interprets your work. Its there. 
Its yours. No one else fiddles with it and 
messes it up ... I could see myself in a few 
years time, hopefully, just writing books.
Chapmans advice for hopeful student writ
ers? Tenacity. Dont be discouraged. Keep at 
it.
Even with a stack of writing projects going at 
once, Chapman still tries to give college pres
entations for about a month each year. When 
introduced to the idea of sharing his life in this 
way, he didnt like it. That was eight years ago. 
Since then he has changed his mind. Here was 
an opportunity to travel around at someone 
elses expense, meet a lot of people in lots of 
places that I would never have an opportunity 
to go to, or any reason to go to otherwise. And 
its been very enjoyable.
A confidential note to the gay community: 
Yes, Graham Chapman agreed to go on a date 
with you, but he had to leave early. Still, he 
said yes, he would love you meet you some
time and sends his regards.
THIS WEEK IN DH2210
Thursday, April 14
Stalag 17 (1953)
In all honesty, nobody is really sure how the title of this movie is spelled, 
not even AB. Stalag 17 (the Carnival schedule spells it Stalig) is a German 
prisoner-of-war camp where they keep the American POWs and which has 
never had an escape. William Holden plays a cynical and abrasive sergeant 
who acts as a self-serving trader who gets beaten up early on as it is discovered 
that there is a spy amongst the prisoners. The film was the basis of Hogan s 
Heroes and contains many of the familiar characters without the comic relief. 
A young Peter Graves also stars as the head of Security for Barracks 4. If 
youre not at Carnival its a good way to spend 6, 8 or 10 pm and a buck.
Friday, April 15
Buggy Movie/ Classic Cartoons
Ok, its not in DH 2210 but whatthehell. This is the movie that they show 
to the drivers to make sure they really, really really want to be in a little shell 
of fiberglass, going at speeds in excess of thirty miles an hour.
On the other hand we have a whole slew of cartoons tonight (and yesterday) 
ranging from Popeye to Merrie Melodies. Theyre taking place in the 
Wherrett Room from 10 pm to 2 am, so after Midway closes this is definitely 
the way to go.
Saturday, April 16
La Bamba
Lots of teeny-boppers dancing. Los Lobos does the soundtrack. Theres a 
plane crash (rock stars shouldnt let other rock stars fly drunk in bad weather) 
and lots of neat emotional Spanish guitar, at 6, 8, 10 pm, and 12 midnight. 
Also, in the Carnival Tent at 10:30 \>myTheNeverending Story, one of the best 
fairy tales in recent memory.
Sunday, April 17
Escape From New York
Manhattan is a maximum security prison - now there's an original idea. 
With Kurt Russell as the commando crook and Donald Pleasence as the 
President. At 6, 8, 10 pm.
Compiled by A.E. GREEN
5168 PENN AVE.
89&i 363*(
16 IMCH 
PEPPERONI PIZZA $4.70
Saturday 11 am - 2 am 
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
+ tax

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage D3
.Clangs, rings, guitars that sing: NewFest on the Cut
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Music Critic
In case youre wondering, there was a name 
for all that mess on the Cut last Saturday. It 
was called NewFest 88, and if you stayed 
around, you would know that it consisted of 
six alternative music bands (to avoid the 
branding effect of calling them new wave or 
^cowpunk or industrial, all of which arent 
particularly descriptive) from both Pittsburgh 
and otherwheres.
Starting at about 2:30, a bit later than the 
planned time of 11:30 due to a rash of delays, 
technical and otherwise, the show led off with 
the local band Thick As Thieves doing their 
big-beat-acid-pop thing. The band sounded 
strong throughout their set, consisting of a mix 
of covers and originals, although the vocals 
were a bit weak, partially due to the fact that 
Rick Pegg has been forced to double on lead 
guitar and vocals since their original vocalist 
went back to England. Still, their roaring 
guitar and HUGE bass were a good draw, and 
probably helped attract a lot of otherwise 
oblivious people to the show.
Next up was A.T.S. These locals have a 
*wiggy musical style that melts together little 
lumps of Amurikan music, like folk and 
jazz and country, into one huge musical blob 
that jangles and crunches all over the stage. 
Now, if this description makes little sense to 
you, just rest assured that the boys in the band 
banged out a great set with more than a little 
dose of humor  Mr. Guacamole is one 
rulin tune  and provided a fuzzy (like 
^flannel) alternative to Thick As Thieves 
glam-punk style. Whatever that is.
The music went from psychotic cowboy to 
slightly warped pop when the next band, Per
manent Wink, took the stage. Hailing from 
Somerset, the group is a family sort of affair, 
with J.D. and Cindy Ross (married) on guitar/ 
vocals/flute and bass/vocals, Donn Ross (sib
ling) on lead guitar, and Mike Kinsella (some 
^ guy) on drums. Their tunes start off sounding 
kinda strange, but seem really familiar by the 
end of the song. This seems to compound 
itself, so the end of the set sounded really 
familiar and good. And J.D. Ross sounded 
more like In Anderson the further the set 
went (meant in a kindly way, cause he does Ian 
better than Ian).
After a brief pause to reset the stage (oh, 
figure it out), the out-of-state contingency 
*took the stage, with Spahn Ranch leading off. 
They play, well, its got guitars, and drums, 
and bass, and the guitars go twang, at least 
when theyre not going roar or chinka-chinkachink, and the drums go whump (from the 
only kneeling drum kit Ive ever seen) and so 
does the bass, and somehow it all makes some 
really nifty music. A major part of this is lead 
singer Bob Sterner, who has one of the most 
riveting stage presences Ive ever seen  he 
acts like the quiet kid in the neighborhood, the 
one who always seemed a bit strange, but not 
weird-strange, just cool-strange, the one who 
always seemed like he was bound for the 
nuttery  and it works really, really well. 
Very memorable, or at least noticeable, and 
definitely in tune with the band* s penchant for 
fuzzy (like grind) stuff in their music, like a 
m folk singer with a pavement saw. (Again, if 
this isnt making any sense, then you just 
should have come out to see them yourself. So 
there.)
For Against, the next band (really!) brought 
the mess back down to pop zero with some 
nifty tunes filled with solid bass and ringing 
guitars. (Yes, I realize that far too many gui
tars have been ringing these days, but this 
applies better than anything else I can think 
of.) While it was a bit of an abrupt switch from 
the less obviously structured tunes before, For 
Againsts music was a nice respite for the 
more conventionally-minded. (However, 
they were the ones responsible for the disgust
ing seaweed cookies  the ones that looked 
like orange styrofoam and tasted like fish food 
 circulating through the crowd, so I guess
they had something to answer for.)
Finally, the show went conclusively back to 
the unpredictable side with Savage Republic. 
The band roared through their set, whaling 
away on (in various combinations) up to two 
guitars, two basses, one drum kit, one iron 
block, and two steel drums (no, not steel 
drums, STEEL DRUMS, as in the 55-gallon 
oil-containing kind, not calypso), with one 
flaming briefly. And a sometimes vocalist. The 
sound took some people by surprise with its 
anarchic style and incredible force, as well as 
jangling-to-the-point-of-pain guitar sound 
produced by two twelve string guitars with all 
twenty-four strings tuned to G and dragged 
through a distortion box. Even so, lots of 
people got into the music, even to the point of 
a small and peaceful mosh developing during
Real Men, the only old song played in the 
entire set. Amazing.
Aside from its unfortunately late start, the 
entire show went well  lots of people got to 
hear music they wouldnt ordinarily be ex
posed to, or, expose themselves to, six very 
worthwhile bands got a decently large amount 
of exposure, and, hopefully, the whole she
bang went well enough to warrant another 
show next year.
WAIT! IT DOESNT HAVE TO END LIKE 
THIS! Now, if you did show up at NewFest, 
and you liked what you heard, then do some
thing about it  show some support! Go see 
the local bandsThick As Thieves is opening 
for Balaam and the Angel at the Upstage 
tonight (over 21 show  sorry, kids), A.T.S. 
is usually playing somewhere in Pittsburgh
each week  check the listings in In Pitts
burgh or a daily (usually Thursday or Fridays 
papers have listings), and Permanent Wink 
should be playing some more dates any time 
soon  watch here for more details.
As for the out-of-state bands, theyll be a bit 
harder to see. (Spahn Ranch did a show Sun
day at the Underground Railroads Dry House 
in Morgantown, West Virginia, which does 
you no good, but its a good place to keep an 
eye on, since their shows are under 21.) 
However, you can always buy their albums. 
You can also listen to more of their music on 
WRCT  just call up and request it. The 
whole idea of NewFest is to expose people to 
new music, and it would be a shame if the 
interest in the concert stopped when the show 
did.
Three by land. 
Two by sea.
Semester field study sites in Mexico, Kenya, Australia, the Virgin Islands and U.S.A. Queensland,
Australia
.ave you ever found it difficult to 
make the connection between the "real world 
and your classroom? Join us for a semester of 
active research on critical environmental 
issues facing the world today.
Our 1988-89 academic year includes 
fall and spring semester programs in:
Baja, Mexico Marine Mammal Behavior 
& Conservation 
Athi Plains, Kenya Wildlife Ecology & 
Management 
Vermont, U.S.A. Resource Management: 
The Changing 
Environments of the 
Circumpolar North 
St. John, Virgin Is. Marine Biology & 
Management
Biogeography: Patterns of 
Ecological Diversity
Tie School for Field Studies accreditedSemester ProgramsCall Collect March 23-April 20, 1988 
8:30 A.M. - 8:30 P.M. EST
1-617-927-7777
The School 
for Field Studies 
376 Hale Street 
Beverly, MA 01915 
(617) 927-7777
Yes! I want more information about 
SFS field study courses.
? Send me your free catalogue.
In addition, send me information on:
? financial aid
? academic credit
Mail to: The School for Field Studies 
376 Hale Street 
Beverly, MA 01915
Name
Current Mailing Address
Oy
State
(Area Code) Telephone Number 
School or College 
Permanent Mailing Address
City__Z*>

---------------------------------------------------

Spring Carnival
The Student Dormitory
Present For Your Enjoyment.
 .y/tf'i/rly,, ; /-/
5:00 pm10:00 pm - 2:00 am
Noon 1:30 pm 2:00 pm 5:00 pm9:00 pm - 1:00 am 10:00 pm - 2:00 am
Jazz Choir Classic Cartoons
/JT
The Heavy Cats (Jazz Band) CaricaturistEdward Jackman (Comedian) Kiltie BandSDC Dance: Vinyl Frontiers Classic Cartoons
TentWherrett Room
TentMidwayTentTentTentWherrett Room
NoonHector in Paris (Band)Tent1:30 pmCaricaturistMidway4:30 pmConsumption of Gingerbread HouseTent5:00 pmCarsickness (Band) SDC/WRCTTent8:00 pmThe Image (Band)Tent10:30 pmMovie: The Neverending StoryTent
Vo RIME Tl
Funny People, an upcoming television show from the 
makers of Laugh-in, will premiere Wednesday, July 
27th at 8:00 pm If you want to expose to the world some 
bizarre habit or ability you possess, now is your chance! 
They will be conducting interviews following Edward 
Jackmans Spring Carnival performance at 2:00 pm 
Friday, April 15th in the tent.
For more information call Adam at x2107
V

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage D5
What do Liz Taylor and Dona Speir have in common? Breast Fu!
By JOE BOB BRIGGS
Ive been reading Liz Taylors new book, 
National Velveeta, about how she was 
once a balloon in the Macys Thanksgiving 
Parade but today shes a tweety-bird, and 
she has a lot of remarks in there dumping on 
John Belushi and Joan Rivers who were the 
pioneers in the Porky Liz Joke-a-rama, and 
ie says we shouldnt tell jokes like that 
anymore cause it hurt poor Lizzies feelings 
and  heres the best part  John Belushi 
is one dead joker today and its because of 
his excesses.
To which I wanna say, Liz. Honey. Listen 
up. You wanna be anonymous? Go to Tahiti 
and hide in the folds of Marlon Brandos 
stomach. You wanna make more TV movies 
vith Robert Culp and get interviewed by 
Robin Leach and play with Michael 
Jacksons chimpanzee? Get a grip on reality 
here. YOU went on Donahue. BELUSHI 
didnt go on Donahue. You start sayin God 
punished Belushi for imitating you, then you 
better watch it, cause YOURE the one that 
made Cleopatra, and if the Big Guys 
counting, that ones probly worth a quad
ruple by-pass minimum. Have another 
Fudgsicle.
But the best part of the book is when she 
describes what happened the day she got 
nekkid in front of the mirror and could not 
tear myself away from this awful vision. 
We couldnt either, Lizzie. It was like a 
traffic wreck.
But all right, just in case Bob Hope is 
^reading and he needs a few jokes to replace 
the ones hes been telling for the last fifty 
years, then heres some NEW material, to 
show you that weve all NOTICED how 
teensy-tinsy Lizzie is, and how now well 
give credit where credit is due.
1. For Bob Hope: I saw Liz Taylor today, 
isnt she great? She turned sideways and
looked like two missiles hanging in mid
air.
2. For Joan Rivers: Dont you just HATE 
her? Now shes got that body that looks like 
a Snow-cone. Am I right? Does this bother 
you? Can we talk about this? The woman 
should have bubble gum stuck to her head. 
We can use her to pick up pennies.
3. For David Letterman: I saw a picture of 
Elizabeth Taylor. Whoa! Was I out when 
this happened? Lets have a show of hands. 
How many people believe its really not Liz 
and Bo Derek had a head transplant? I told 
you we should never do that one, Paul. Bo 
Derek, head transplant, it just doesnt make 
sense, what do you think, Paul, should I do 
the next one?
4. For John Belushi (R.I.P.): Nyah nyah 
nyah.
And speaking of double cruise missiles, the 
latest Andy Sidaris flick is out. The man 
who wrote and directed Seven, Malibu 
Express, and Hard Ticket to Hawaii, the 
ABC Sports director best known as the King 
of Female Breast Exposures, the man who 
missed seven hockey goals in the 1988 
Winter Olympics because he was in his 
trailer, staring at the breasts of Dona Speir, 
the star of his latest movie, Picasso 
Trigger  the man who puts HIMSELF in 
the movie, sinking a 90-foot putt for reasons 
that have absolutely nothing to do with the 
plot  the man who has offices in the 
Playboy Building just so he can say, Hey, 
Babe, wanna be in the movies?  hes 
done it again. Every time Andy makes a 
movie, it always has the following basic plot 
elements:
1) Soap opera actor with muscles and a 
blow-dry haircut to live out Andys fantasies 
for him (Steve Bond in this flick, guy that 
used to be on General Hospital.)
2) As many Playboy bunnies as Andy can
bribe (seven in this flick, including two who 
do a Vegas topless-cowgirl routine).
3) At least 17 people have to be killed on a 
certain day at a certain time, and Andy has a 
Playmate Impossible team that can do it.
4) All of em are killed by being blown up. 
(This movie has a boomerang with a bomb 
Scotch-taped to it, and a remote-control race 
car that runs up a surfboard, crashes through 
a wall, and blows up some bad guys so that 
their entire bodies are scorched black like 
Wily Coyote.)
5) When in doubt, use a helicopter shot.
6) Breast Jamboree.
This one is the ultimate Andy Sidaris 
movie. The plot goes to four exotic locations
 Paris, Vegas, Hawaii, and Uncertain, 
Texas, chief resort on Caddo Lake  and is 
so complicated you cant ever figure out a 
single thing thats goin on, including the 
title. Were talking Drive-In Hall of Fame.
Sixteen breasts. Triple aardvarking. 23 
dead bodies. Four motor vehicle chases. 
Bazooka-fireball exploding Chevy. Explod
ing sailboat. Exploding jeep. Exploding 
Hovercraft. Exploding Mexican. Gratuitous 
golf. Gratuitous trained-dolphin show. Kung 
Fu. Harpoon Fu. Boomerang Fu. Party barge 
Fu. Drive-In Academy Award nominations 
for Patty Duffek, Miss May 1984, as 
Patticakes the topless cowgirl, for saying 
Im gonna hit the Jacuzzi!; Kym Malin, 
Miss May 1982, as Kym the topless cocowgirl; Cynthia Brimhall, Miss October 
1985, for wearing a green Spandex mini
dress and carrying a concealed shotgun; 
Roberta Vasquez, Miss November 1984 
AND a former California state cop, for 
wearing a lizard-skin sequined Teddy, 
attempting to country-western dance, and 
saying I love you and I need you and I want 
you; Liv Lindeland, 1972 Playboy Play
mate of the Year, for doing something in
this movie, I cant remember, Dona Speir, 
Miss March 1984 and a 1988 nominee for 
Breast Actress, for repeatedly wearing skin
tight diving suits and getting herselves wet, 
and for saying The issue at hand is a 
woman who sleeps with an international 
criminal and does it in the name of the 
United States government!; Hope Marie 
Cralton, Miss July 1984, for listing her chief 
acting credit as a guest star on The ATeam, and for saying Look at our boat 
Donna! That could have been us! and (on 
the golf course) Wanta putter around?; 
John Aprea, as Picasso Trigger, for getting 
blown away two different times and saying 
Women! Easy come, easy go! Well, they 
were expendable.; Steve Bond, for saying 
to the woman with the hugest hooters ever 
seen on the screen, Ive always LOVED 
your back; Guich Koock, former mayor of 
Luckenbach, Texas, for wearing fishing 
lures on his shirt and riding a horse around 
Dallas; and Andy Sidaris, the one and only, 
for having every one of his actors say Lets 
do it, and for writing the line You ready to 
boogie?
Four stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
A woman with something to get off her 
chest: Dona Speir in Piqappqjfjgger
April 30 
9:00 AM
Open to the entire 
CMU Community
CMU 1988 
TRIATHLON
1/4 mile swim (400 yds) 
10 mile bike (Helmets required) 
5K run (3.1 mile)
Fide up yoar information and sign-up sheet
at the Skibo information desk or the IM offices
Sponsored by: Student Senate, Student Affairs, Intramurals Dept.
Entry Fee: $5.00 for individual 
$15.00 for teams Checks payable to CMU
&GckTm eaw213m lhGc3 Cp,wa *B,c3k T2y
e2p2 E,pa
e2p2 &aR,pa
IakT E,pa la,R
IakT &aR,pa la,R
IakT P2Wa3 la,R 
IakT E,kTack W.LU
Entries Due April 20
G

---------------------------------------------------

y k0& #** C^W b
l-feg 3rc*tet (H*
flm y1-i
Freddy Flashback & Max y Doug LamperskI
tir pt&PMTMtgmmft
f0 fctHCr Mt~
4f*6 toiAK jbar*/f~&uf* Ms 
g&tmr**j fter?g Cmr,
Mm# hve fsr
Citef , i* rtftp&MX?;
B&tM /**& *
$r> />rrfwP&J/L*
W V"y^ a4~ mM
3 /' 0*'iV 5<t *** ,*k thg-sM
fll f<i? Aifss
venin mnine wh<n thr c*..k_..:n---^

---------------------------------------------------

A&cve cuf^ tamr ns+i&r a -r*ff Mir iwmi46ra &nt6< nSfwi cescn>b im&&mM, C*> MtMM *1D KWSD VifTtf.
A VHbUALCFADF eanMid pls atow
if> ri|uwii.4Tci> eu* MA*Tk*W LAU(,vAb
TVC WALK
TCWNRJ? A cxt*Ux4^>
r x SMBUtB^e YTH*rf Wi*H U*L TO TOLUaH iWHAT
c9
W LteTBH, il f rms^mk, 1 
VjE P0MVUUC%4 6Jex6 <5*4 l TheBstPl a
' G^Ukm&r..^ 
kkC
W \ mt mckTj
pip ' vcustt 
TmwT 2w
VAH A *ri frCrl
jtfi yH0i2fx*4fr!
r TW ^ .A*rrHUt*6i 
A fKB NOT COOrMHATtW.
ar eV Tr^k^r
K**4tfc*rtiNA4iMt&6T,40rRPN&, murjM &0*MA TmteM^Oi A.
f%adCZP..'tfcci'KlNlL/

---------------------------------------------------

*h-sm oSfnk gm 
addacepb yemgdae 
gseVm % VPec pi
ApuAbp wm licfib oifr
ARE OFTEN P0CT0R5, JUPGES. 
BftbOAGE HANPLER5 ftNP 
OTHER LAW-WIPING CITIZENS. 
WE STRONGLY RESENT THE 
STEREOTYPE 
SUGGESTING 
Vvftf OTHERWISE.
LAST WEEK. THIS 
FEATURE PISPLAYEP ft 
BEARPEP PERSON CHARACTERHEP AS A VIOLENT 
LUNATIC. THIS IS PURE,
___ IRRESPONSIBLE
BIGOTRY.
(The post-spring break 
Bloom County catch-up)
'WHERE THE REAPERS 
RE5P0NP "
TOPftV:
MR CHARLES RAYMONP 
FOXWORTH... PRESIPENT 
OF THE 'AMERICAN ASSOC. 
FOR THE APVANCEMENT 
OF PEOPLE WITH FACIAL 
HAIR:BLOOM COUNTY
By Berke Breathed
I AM VifCf PlSftPPOlNTEP / 
.PUTTING SUPERGLUE IN MY 
SHORTS BEFORE MY PIATE 
I \ WWTI I I AM VERY,
\lt% VERY, VERY 
PlSftPPOlNTEP 
tr/AV JlX IN YOU'
7HERE GOES ESTHER 
NEMBERb. BOY...YA 
KNOW WHAT THEY 
SAY ABOUT GIRLS 
WHO PON'T SHAVE..
STEREOTYPE 
XTHELANGUf\ 
OF HATEQWET. EVERYONE " THE 
STEVE mUAS EMOnONflLRESPONSE TEST' COMMENCES 
x'Tv rV TEN 
_ \ SECJONPS/
WHAT? THftT 
THEY WEftR 
CAMOUFLAGE 
BOXER SHORTS ?
NORMALLY, 
HEWOULP'VE 
FLUSHEP YOU 
POWNTHE 
COMMOPE SIX 
SECONPS AGO.
WHERE THE REAPERS 
RE5PONP"NOWmyePONE fT?
PONT
SAY IT.TOPftY '
MS. UNPft NUMMER5, 
SPOKESPERSON FOR 
THE'UNITEP PEFENSE 
FRONT FORTHE 
UNSHORN SISTERS
ul m iAucibmAnpr
GOOP
HEAVEN5....MPtFP
IU/AKECRYIN
k/ELL C'MERE. LOCOMOTIVE 
UPS...PLANT A 
SLOPPY ONE 
sv sHr RIGHT HERE/
mS THAT IT AI PS.
OR PIP I MISS PEEP KISSING. 
IT ? YOU KNOW.
THEY'LL 
COME OVER 
ANP TftKE HIM 
ftWAY FOR 
PROCESSING 
AFTER HE 
CROAKSTHERE'S ft 
COMPANY IN 
FLORIPA THftT 
WILL FREEZE-PRY 
YOUR PET.
NICE
IPEft...
YOU CftN 
PUT FIPO 
UPON THE 
MANTEL 
FOR ETERNITY
f QUICHE '
 I'M HERE/ 
THE ALIENS 
BROUGHT 
ME BACK/ 
HEM ANP - 
IMPROVEP/
OH. BY THE BY... PORTNOY 
K/CKEP OFF LAST NIGHT, 
50 WE HAP HIM 
FREEZE-PRIEP utiA
ANP PUT ON THE WHA 
MANTEL. /
HA/ Hft' 
WHAT A RUBE!iu rrn.'
PR/EUP9 
CftN BE SUCHft mep
BLESSING.
1...AM ALERTING 
MY EP MEESE
tirhfefsn dfkoh eugy
IN YOUR I ,
TORTELLINI,
MY EVES ARE SUPPENCY OPEN. 
TERRIBLE TRUTHS ARE 
REVEAUNO THEMSELVES... 
ftNP IFINP THAT I CARE...
I REALLY..
mu rrsm
REP MW 13 JUST 
HOT &ETTWi> ANY
WENDYOU YRmmu
YOU MAY NOT HAVE 
NOTICEP, QUICHE . BUT 
, TVE GONE THROUGH SOME 
CHANGES OF LATE /
THAT WAS A MEAN 
ANP THOUGHTLESS 
THING YOU PIP, MAKING 
ME THINK PORTNOY 
HAP BEEN FREEZE-PRIEP..
BUT WHftT SORT 
OF MORALS SHOULP ' YOU 
ft FELLOW EXPECT SEE IT 
OUTOFftPUMB, COMING. 
SHORT PONT YOU I.PERSON /
EVER SINCE 1RETVRNEP, TVE 
BEEN THtNKNG OF US. QUICHE. 
IV UKE YOU TO CONSIPER 
A BRAVE NEW LEVEL OF COM - 
MtTMENT ANP EMOTIONAL
ire hAt*. PURITY...
TM GOING TO SAY 
JUST ONE WORPftNP 
I WANT YOU TO SAY THE 
ONE WORP THAT FIRST 
1 COMES TO YOUR MlNP. 
REAPY..? ~W
MEAN,
THOUGHTLESS 
ftNP IMMORAL
PONT FORGET 
YOUR HAT 
ON THE WAY OUT
ThftTS
EIGHT
WORPS/
WHY:
MR L B. 5TUm 
PRESIPENT OF 7 
"fiMER/CAN 
NON-TULL PEPSi 
PROTECTION LEPi
REMEMBER FOUR YEARS A60 WHEN THE MEAPOW PARTY
cmpV ual alV has m> dapbcftNP THEN NAMEP YOU 
THEIR CANPtPRTE FOR VlCEPRESIPENT IN ABSENTIA ?
THEY SRY HISTORY ALWAYS REPEATS IRSELE.
WHATEXACTLY 
ARE YOU 
GETTING
AT?
THE PEF6NPANT IS A 
LOATHSOME, P/GFACEP, VICIOUS 
, ANIMAL MHO SHOULP 
\ BE CHAIN EP IN A 
i\ k SMELLY n L W SeU^R "
..HE MURPEREP THE 
ENTIRE MOOSE LOPGE.. 
STABBEP THEM. 
BRUTALLY.
WITH THEIR OWN ANTLERS.
HESALSO WHAT AM I
YOUR CLIENT. 5UPP0SEP 
COUNSELOR TO PO ?
/ FIB ?
STIVE'S NOT HERE. QUICHE HE'S IN COURT WPAY YEAH, 
1 PONT UKE TO THINK ABOUT TF. EITHER...
OUR NEW V.P-ELECT HAS REMNPEP THE CHAIR THAT A NOMINATION VOTE IS NOT BtNPtNG UNLESS 
THE V.P. NOMINEE 15 IN RTTENPANCE...
WHEW'POES /mrcmroRY  
dmvafsSfu
PUT A LAPP IN YOUR THROAT. TOO 7
SO ONCE AGAINALL IN FPNOR OF OPUS AS OURVP NOMtVEE ?.
15 YEAR5 RT HARP LABOR 'I PONT UNNERSTAN.YA TOLPPAJURY I WAS A PIP I LIE,Ptb FACEP, REGiNALP7SEWER SCUM IRAT
PIP YOU KILL THOSE 97 MOOSELOPGE MEMBERS WITH THEIR OWN ANTLERS ? 
SO WHAT KtNP OF 
I CITIZEN WOULP I
PONT BE IF IUEP TO GET 
UKE OBVIOUS PSYCHO 
MOOSE PATHS BACK ON 
\ THE-STREET?
I'LL VISIT 
YOUR MOTHER. 
REGINALP
YOUPN 
BE A 
LAWYER
ualYOURAfLROAPEP rib Biro13hpB pyEhpwT3R 
I3Pyp8 1wpwpw70 A
CAKtffir
v
IE SAHA PONALPSON SHOULP ASK. HE'S JUST N AREUGCUS
'ML THE CAT IS HiS NCMPE PLUME
gorhnhwrhsTM*} 
iu iONbUES ftlW MAPE YOU AREMEM5EREP CARP. TOO I ft LONELY PREW YOU ANP MOTHER'S ME H0LP1NG BtRTHPftY 7 HftNPS.
STEVEN MILHOUSE 
PALLAS... YOU GET 
YOUR BRfttN ZAPPEP 
BY ALIENS OR 
SOMETHING ? JM

---------------------------------------------------

i MCK9" weLCome 
yemgdaepVcA
TE % THIS NEWSPAPER.InkspotsBy Kurt Shaw
,,,/M7 IF Pl BEFORE 
1MKE..L0RP, FOR 
CRYIN'OUT LOUP...
WHAT SK/ .LICgU AMTuM fXKr/ BE1HEFR5T  7^-Jr Dcowvmm YOU/
F3-b8li, map/now ? 
VEMOCWCt 
D&WHCgp 
VR THHJRT. TOO ?
FmfoTITECb vGpE 
IHTOWKS? lom\ cmmbN
Picket line at a writer's strike.
collegiate crossword
 Edward Julius Collegiate CW8718
ACROSS
1 Having magnitude 
7 Occur
13 Underwater ICBM
15 ------ roll
16 Hug
17 Pierces with a 
sharpened stake
18 Ostrich!ike bird
19 Roman general
21 Dorothy's aunt, 
et al.
22 Cupola
24 Wanders about
25 French cheese
26 Mortimer ------
28 Desire
29 Jim Nabors role
30 ------ pace
32 Museum sculpture
34 Bio--------
35 Owns'
36 Bill Haley and
the ------
39 More inquisitive
42 Happen again
43 Most common 
written word
45 French relatives
47 Subject of the 
movie, "Them"
48 Feeling honored
50 Arrividerci ------
51 "Give ------ try"
52 Sparkle
54 "My boy"
55 State tree of 
Georgia (2 wds.)
57 Cleverly avoiding
59 Arab jurisdiction
60 Experiences again
61 Famine 
6* - rat
DOWN
1 Rushes
2 College dining room
3 Egg part
4 Hagman, for short
5 Soviet sea
6 Kitchen gadget
7 Organic part of 
soil
8 Location of the 
Matterhorn
9 "Harper Valley-----"
10 Capital of Sicily
11 Adversaries
12 Sadat succeeded him
14 Indian soldiers
15 Sitting, as a 
statue
20 Suffix for detect 
23 Dutch scholar 
25 More domineering 
27 Kitchen gadget 
29 Understand 
31 Illuminated 
33 Shout of surprise
36 French money
37 Antony's wife -
38 Bowling term
39 Spay
40 Wearing away
41 Spot ------
42 Talked wildly
44 On a lucky streak 
46 Most rational
48 Writer Sylvia ------
49 Removed by an 
editor
52 Capricorn
53 Mark with lines 
56 Blunder
58 Relative, for short
Tar tati G, 
  ,
V\s! 'fisnwKtf ^
Z 0qGP5 l,^i6 31
Soil*

-tvo
l;<k -tD^Vxcf__
-tap-4*
SMftll M l&-to *^it
. \\ Wk i;U* -h*.
dyiK
\;s V 
sJlwb .U V ffefspc^
Overload 
By Bob Jenkins
John, AiDs po
SOMgWiWG Dl ffeENJ.
We GO TO KlLT(6 Tart
evetev ntAi Pr iDilU 
daweek i
Prof M67 ot/ri&vr
'Tf'JtHT.V
LOVTHM TAf^tM) 
&UdRS. :>'r
U/ J
.. .Tfi is is Norexxrra WKAT r HAP IN MIN P.
tfof-i c\e*J life 
\v\o^S \;Ve...\v\ak<> ik,
\vWfe\\W W 
owt 
6<o*ve
lito IIP Lib -tap l'i 
t -----------U>/ld
oCfa ftW torn Help.
By Cliff Snider
 ------------------------------------^ ?
* rW\ 'Wt*1 -^Hccl In .
Vcote 
rjr S\0^
yc&t -vVt <^o
 tV
al B
xyrUl Udvg ^ ^0 i/V/aJ.y ?
I

---------------------------------------------------

oo .3<DooO.
e
MW)
.SC/33
0)co<D
o00>.X>
00
w
O
c3
w
J
CQ
U
Z'HH
>
AKDR0IQ5 PRpviCfcD EtoKih & P/te^ER r 0pNJ5oiwft W MiUP-SiAutt'. AMP GORiCE^ KPCprtTtPL PM$1on.
ITS BAC<// 
:jc or.
ffraggBtt aitrnl uinde CmawPPacSEBy FJAjJ
These are the 
answers to 
last week's 
puzzle.
...real pdrtj aawals.
0
a
I
a
A TlflV SHl)TTL6 ZooMS PROM A 
SMAtU6^eeM SHIP iiJto tkf HEART OF A H06E 
pesTRoy^R.
cam on ve FCoL THe TfcALU. ? U)/LL LUCKtaaegy

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage Dll
' Tango Argentino!
Heinz Hall hosts Broadway show
By STEPHANIE REEDY
Tartan Staffwriter
The Pittsburgh Symphony Society and 
PACE Theatrical Group will present the origi
nal Broadway cast of the 1985 hit, Tango 
Argentino, at Heinz Hall from April 26th 
through May 1st.
Tango Argentino originally opened in July of 
1985 at the City Center in New York and, after 
a surprising audience demand, was rcopened 
on Broadway in October. The show was 
praised by audiences and critics alike, receiv
ing three Tony nominations and called the best 
show of the year by the New York Times and 
Time Magazine.
Conceived, directed, and designed by Clau
dio Segovia and Hctor Orezzoli, Tango 
Argentino is a song and dance revue that traces 
the history of the Tango from its sordid begin
nings to the styles of the 
twenties and to the influ
ence of ballroom danc
ing that have made the 
dance what it is today.
Although the Tangos 
origins in the 1880s in 
Buenos Aires were less 
than respectable (per
formed in brothels, it 
was said to represent the 
relationships and liasons 
between the ladies of 
the night and their cus
tomers), the dance be
came an integral part of 
Argentine culture, in
volving not only sexy 
costumes and shocking 
steps and body move
ments, but songs of sad
ness and longing, and 
sometimes including 
humorous tones.
Hector Orezzoli has described the dance as 
torturous, complicated, intricate, mysterious, 
rough, but also sophisticated and full of humor 
and irony.
For the cast, the Tango is a way of life, 
involving deep emotion as well as dancing 
skill. The performers consist of seven couples 
(most of whom have been dancing together for 
ten years or more), soloist Cecilia Narova, and 
four singers. The dances and songs are accom
panied by an onstage orchestra that consists 
mainly of string instruments and four bandondeones, an Argentine form of the accordion.
The cast is made up of world renowned 
Tango artists, having performed throughout 
the United States, Europe, and Central Amer
ica. Through this tour they hope to stir the 
fervor and emotion that they feel towards the 
Tango in audiences everywhere.
The theme of the Tango 
is one of sexuality and its 
entanglements, involv
ing the role of the male as
a dominating force over photo courtesy Hie Pittsburgh Symphony
women. Co-director The sensuality of dance is evident in Tango Argentino.
I
'eL'CHI^Mtrv*xv>
7>v-1- u. s. A.it
RECRUIT U.S.A., INC. (800) 325-9759
CITICORP PLAZA, 725 S. FIGUEROA ST., SUITE 3100 
LOS ANGELES, CA 90017 J PHONE: (213) 955-4900
Human nature in Forbes Gallery
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to The Tartan
Tonights opening at the Forbes Gallery will feature the work of seniors Kimberley Bailey
and Lindsey Nicholson. These artists will be exhibiting paintings, prints and drawings.
Color and Composition
Kimberley Bailey, who paints on a large scale, uses figures in brightly colored interior 
spaces to create a tension through form, color and light, juxtaposing the organic shape of the 
figure with the more geometric forms of her simplified interiors. Ive always been 
interested in color, states Bailey, and using it to suggest specific personal experiences and 
feelings. I work with the figure because of my interest in human nature and relationships 
as a theme in my paintings.
Despite Baileys use of bright, intense color, the paintings have a disturbing rather than 
joyful quality; a feeling of bizarre stillness and quiet. Often the perspective is distorted in 
such a way that it adds to the foreboding feeling. As I began to simplify my paintings more 
and more, it became increasingly difficult to get an organic shape to exist in that geometric 
environment, she explains. Thats part of the struggle... of resolving each painting. 
Recently, Ms. Bailey has moved away from specific situations and events, remarking, 
instead of illustrating, Im trying to get the idea across using other devices such as color. 
Im trying to get the same end through different means. Bailey feels that most of her subject 
matter can be derived purely from the formal aspects of the work and that the content is the 
construction.
Ms. Baileys canvases go through many stages, being painted six to eight times each, which 
contributes to a surface which is very active with subtle color build-ups and texture. My 
surfaces arent deliberately created, she explains, they come through the process of 
painting. She is also interested in pattern, that which is created through the natural process 
of dripped paint and texture and also that which is consciously made to activate the space. 
The large size of Baileys canvases is important because she feels the fluid nature of paint 
demands a large space to move around in and that large surfaces are more interesting to 
manipulate.
Ms. Bailey will also be exhibiting intaglio prints she has been working on this semester. 
While intaglio is the most similar to painting of all printmaking media, Bailey finds printing 
completely different, as it is something she can create with without having to worry so much 
about formal issues, scale and color. She is attracted to the rawness of the print since so much 
time is spent fine tuning her paintings. I enjoy the process of printing more and not knowing
continued on page D13
Great Expectations  Where precision haircutting is a tradition, as well as an art and at affordable pricesWITH THIS COUPONsave $2.00 o o
Precision Haircutcomplete with shampoo ft blow style
|25k April30,1988________________mCTtTWttJ
MnfcLfuh12hmnL1peeb ko
Aca,T eTMpak eT,cT ,T888\?GRAT
CHFcenmMtsPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
We Make Waves.
Lewiss,Gcuk Bh,T Ba 32 FakT8 -bd e8 *GDa1 *Ha8m eh,3MkG3a 
682-4063
Valid Mon-Thurs, 9AM-3PM Reg. $15-18 Offer expires April 30

---------------------------------------------------

Department of Philosophy 
Course Schedule and Descriptions
Fall 1988
Philosophic Methoda and Moral(80-100)GlymourKnowledge Minda * Machine(80-203)Intro to Logic(80-210)KeDyPhilo, of Science(80-220)SeidenfeldTopic in Moral Philo.(80-231)AllersWant * Moral PraklnSocial * Political Philo.(80-236)FrankTopic in Social * Political Philo*.(80-237)Alleva, Dnw% ,aPu * BwtWITopics in the Histoiy of Nineteenth(80-250)AlleraCentury Philo.History of Modem Philo.(80-253)KeDyTheories of Painting(80-261)Carrier
Philo, of Religion(80-265)KellySocial Choice Theory A(80-306)BurkholderComputer SimulationLogic A Computability I(80410)MgProbability A Al(80312}Spirto(80307)HenrionSyntax I(80-382)PollardNatural Lang. Proceeding II(80482)StaffTopical Seminar(80-580)Pollard8itastign SemanticsProbability A Al(80-811)Spirtes(88-717)HenrionPoaUtructuralUm(80862)Carrier
COURSE:80-100 Philosophic Methods and 
Morals
TIME MW 3:30-420 LOCATION: DH2315INSTRUCTOR Clark Glymour
COURSE DESCRIPTION:
This course does not assume any previous acquaintance with philosophy. Philosophy is the attempt to think rigorously about large and abstract questions that m everyday life are either given little thought or are the subject of conflicting faiths and opinions. In this course we will consider the following issues:
What makes a decision rational rather than
irrational? ,What makes an action moral rather thanimmoral7What distinguishes free actions from others, and what is human hberfy?Can justifications be given tor organize societyin some ways rather than m others7What is knowtege and how can H be acquired7What is the nature of sound reasoning inmathematics and the sciences7What is computational systems?Are people computatonal systems7
There will be two lectures and one discussion section each week, with plenty of opportunity tor student participation Students wiB have a reading assignment and a brief writing assignment each week There will be mid-term and final examinations.
Readings will be from C. Glymour. Thinking Things Through, and supplementary sources.
COURSE: 80-237 Topics in Social & Political 
Philosophy: Problems of 
Individual Liberty: Sex, 
Drugs, Rock 'n Roll and 
SeatbeltsF88 Book lists incorrect instructor and time.
TIME: Tues: 1:30 4:00 LOCATION: PH 1268 INSTRUCTOR. Em* Alieva
COURSE DESCRtfTTON:
A central problem of modem political theory has been the delineation and justification of a protected domain of individual liberty, where intervention by society or the state ought to be prohibited. Are there certain kinds of activities that ought to be permitted, regardless of the actual or potential harm to those who voluntarily participate in them, or regardless of the offensiveness or perceived indecenty of such activities to others? Or. can such activities be justifiably restricted or prohibited tor paternalistic reasons (that is. for the*ndividuars own good), or tor reasons involving appeals to offensiveness, indecency, degradation, or insult with respect to others?
Issues to be discussed will be selected from the following: so-called "victimless" crimes (e.g. prostitution, certain kinds of sexual behavior, gambling, drug sale/use. the sale of pornographic materials, etc.); mandatory seatbelt legislation; paternalism in medical and occupational health and safety contexts; problems concerning free speech, artistic expression and censorship (e.g. recent debates about pornography, racist and sexist literature, song lyrics which are sexuaHy explicit or about drug use. etc.); invasions of privacy; and legal restrictions on suicide and voluntary euthanasia; among others.
Discussion will include a survey of alternative theoretical approaches and critical analyses of key concepts and distinctions, such as liberty, consent, privacy, rational agency, harms vs. offenses, direct vs. indirect harms, self-regarding vs. other-regarding actions, sane vs. insane individuals, and minors vs. adults.
Prerequisites: None
COURSE: 80-310 Logic and Computability I
TIME: TTH 1030-11:50 LOCATION: BH 231B INSTRUCTOR: Witfried Sieg
COURSE DESCRffTCN:
This is an introduction to mathematical logic; some familiarity with elementary logic, mathematics, or computer science is helpful but not necessary. The first part of the course is concerned with predicate logic as a rigorous framework tor representing the logical form of statements and the formal structure of arguments. The second part investigates an important question concerning this framework: is there, or is there not, a mechanical procedure (or a suitably programmed computer) that can decide whether a mechanical procedure (or a suitably programmed computer) that can decide whether a formula is derivable in predicate logic? The negative answer to this question , given by Churchs thesis, requires a precise mathematical definition of "mechanical procedure." that is given by means of idealized computers, so-called turing machines.
COURSE. 80-312;80-811 Probability and Al
88-307:88-717 (Social and Decision 
Sciences) cross-listedTIME: TTH 3:00 4:20 LOCATION: PH 126bINSTRUCTOR: Peter Spirtes Max Henrion 
COURSE DESCRIPTION
In this course we will examine two fundamental questions 1. What methods should Al programs use to represent, make decisions based upon, and draw inferences from uncertain information7
COURSE: 80-203 Knowledge, Minds and 
Machines
TIME: MW 12:30 1:50LOCATION: PH 1268WSTRUCTOR: Teddy Setoenleld
COURSE DESCRIPTION:
This course examines several epistemological presuppositions of some familiar essays in the debate about the scope and km* of artificial intelligence Specifically, the class wH discuss contemporary views on toundahonaksm versus coherentism m the theory of knowledge. These views are compared with the objections raised by. e.g.. Searle and Dreyfus against the (strong) Al-thesis of. e.g.. Newel & Simon.
COURSE: 80-210 Introduction to Logic 
(Self-Paced)
TIME: TBALOCATION TBA MSTRUCTOR: Kevwi Kelly
COURSE DESCRIPTION
This course is taught by a computer program The terminal serves as instructor, text book, to grader Hence the course is essentially self paced with mmnaHy restrictive deadMnes at several points in the term. There will be two or three help sessions scheduled each week, during whch help tor dtffcult problems may be obtained The final grade w* be based on how far you get m the cumcutom Sce yotfcannol proceed unMyou get aprobterruexactly right, if you finish the course youHwnWaly get aiwfcgraAe? i * \ + IN 5U. ii.
There w be an organizational meeting at a time to be announced when the room is scheduled This course wil be on TOPS E
Prerequisites: None
Note Due to the complexity involved w\ processing computer accounts, al late registrants will obtain their accounts on specified weekdays, not necessariy *nme<*ate*y.
COURSE: 80-220 Philosophy of Science
TIME: TTH 9 30 1050LOCATION PH 126C WSTRUCTOR: Teddy Seoentew
COURSE DESCWPTION
Hi s course we consider several questions about the status ol scientific laws Among the patterns to be addressed are these
What dohngutshes a soenMc law kom a mere generalization'
Can quanMative concepts be dekned n terms ol quattative ones7 (For stance how are 'units* tor length to be based on observations of relative length "is longer than"7)
I* ie geometry of space an epenmenta*r decidable question7
Can tie dpute over ndetemurNsm m Ouantum Mechanics be resolved with observations7
T* mentim ff,. rj Cam*>
COURSE: 80-250 Topics in the History of 
Nineteenth Century 
Philosophy
TIME: MW 2:30 -3:50 LOCATION: PH 126A INSTRUCTOR: Ernie AHeva
COURSE DESCRIPTION:
This course will cover key philosophical movements and thinkers of the nineteenth century Philosophers discussed will include Bentham. Mill.Hegel. Marx. Kierkegaard. Nietzsche, Pierce and James, among others. Topics addressed will include problems in the theory of knowledge, metaphysics, moral and political theory and the philosophy of history.
Prerequisites: None
COURSE: 80-253 History of Modern Philosophy
TIME: MW 3 00 4:30 LOCATION: BH 235B INSTRUCTOR: Kevin Kelly
COURSE DESCRIPTION:
"Modern philosophy" is the work of Western European philosophers from the Seventeer through the Nineteenth centuries This course is intended as a survey of philosophical though during this period. We shall focus on the views of Desearles. Leibniz. Berkeley. Hume. Kant. Hegel. Marx and MM. and we will consider the work of many other philosophers at a more superficial level. The emphasis of the course win be on clarity of interpretation and on putting the student in a good position to predict what a historical figure will say on a given topic.
COURSE: 80-261 THEORIES OF PAINTING
TIME: TTH 1130 12:50 LOCATION: PH 126A INSTRUCTOR: Davd Carrier
OOURSE DESCRfTlON:
From the Renaissance to the present, panting has almost always been influenced by the writings of art critics and historians. This course surveys that literature. We begin with the writings of Atoerti(l435) and Vasari(1550). and then turn to the 18th century Salons of Diderot; the writings of such 19th century critics as Stendhal, Baudelaire. Pater and Ruskin;
the birth of modem arl history in the late 19th century; the tradition of formalist criticism to which Roger Fry. Clement Greenberg and Michael Fried have contributed; and concludes with decusston of recent postmodernist theorizing The aim of the course is to introduce these texts in class lecture, using an extensive selection of visual example and, whenever possible, the visual resources available in the Pittsburgh museums. The course presupposes no background in either art history or philosophy. Three short papers, which require musuem visits, and three exams testing knowledge of the materials presented in dass are required. There is no
COURSE: 80-265 Philosophy of Religion
2/How can Al techniques help in the construction of statistical models7
The first question is the subject of a great deal of debate in the Al community. Designers of early expert systems, such as Mycin, soon realized the need for making decisions based on uncertain information. Probability and decision theory are well developed theories for drawing inferences from uncertain information, and making decisions based upon that information. Nevertheless, many designers of expert systems have rejected the use of probability and decision theory, and turned to a variety of alternatives.
In the first part of the course, we will study probability, and decision theory, and the arguments that have been advanced in their favor Next, we will examine the criticisms, both epistemological and computational, ihat have been leveled against ihese theories by many in the Al community, and to what extent these criticisms can be answered by modifications to standard probability and decision theory. Finally, we will compare the relative advantages and disadvantages of alternative theories, such as Mycins Certainty Factors, and Dempster Shafer theory.
Texts: Artificial Intelligence and Statistics:Clark(ed)Discovering Causal Structure: Glymour et al.mnq
i\oiz
COURSE: 80-382 Syntax I
iO W
TIME: MW 9:00-10:20 LOCATION: SH 220 INSTRUCTOR: Carl PollardI f __ ** . V  'COURSE DESCRIPTION:
Syntax is the subdiscipline of linguistics that aims to elucidate the principles governing the combination of words and phrases into larger phrases and sentences. This course is intended to serve as an introduction to the formal theory of natural language syntax from the perspective of current generative syntactic theories (transformational grammar, lexical-functional grammar, categorial grammar, phrase structure grammar). Phenomena to be analyzed include consituency, word order, case, government, agreement, concord, complement selection, control, long-distance dependencies ("movement"), coordination, anaphora, and constraints between syntactic form and other aspects of linguistic structure (e.g. morphology and semantics).Students will be actively involved in the analysis of syntactic data from a variety of languages.
This course satisfies one of the core syntax requirements in the Graduate Program in Computational Linguistics.
COURSE: 80-482 Natural Language Processing II
TIME: TTh 230-3:50 LOCATION: PH 126C INSTRUCTOR: Staff
COURSE DESCRIPTION:
Advanced graduate in Computational Linguistics, advanced course for students who will be pursuing individual projects in Natural Language Processing.
Prerequisites: NLP I or permission of instructor
COURSE: 80-231 Topics in Moral Philos.
(Women & Moral Problems)
CAL: Ov ee rl eoalLOCATION PH1Z6A INSTRUCTOR Erne AHeva
COURSE OESCfVnOM
The course eamne alternative approaches lo a number o< moral issues corcernmg the status and welfare ot women  soc*ty Topes ctscussed wS ndude: interpretations ot and (usMcatons tor equaWy mequaMy between tie sexes analyses ot sexsm. sexual exploitation and sexual dscrraiaaon. conceptions of temnewy and mascufrvty recent controverses such as those nvofceig aborton. surrogate modertiood and pornography as we as varma proposa** tor loceta reform, such as alhrmalri  acaon comparable word. ahemat.ti to traaaon* marriage and tamty lelaaonihpa pubkc support tor daycare and nonseust
OOURSE: 80-235 Social and Political 
p-88 Book lasts Philosophy
TME TBALOCATION TBA NSTRUCTOR LM'rM
COURSE OESCHPTON
may be pdged by to poop* ot ac*es  deems'radcal ' And yet even  <woadcau m*  -e areni enere* dear about who or wtiat deserves *>ai
I ! - -]  --   Man. Lenev Freud and Fouc* as we as
Sff wd i el to Fianrtl Srtmt (AOtto. I-------- .........toc* sonamelo be carnali '
TIME: MW 12100-120 LOCATION: BH 23SA INSTRUCTOR: Kevin Kelly
COURSE DESCfltfTION:
The purpose of Itiis course is to study the coherence of rehgous doctrine and the ratonaMy of re^ous betwf Issues of coherence inckide the prt>lem of ewl and doctnne of human freedom The rahonaMy ol rel^ous betel wil be exarmned trom Vie utonahst. empmzrst. oofierentrst and pragatic points of view
This is not a letgon dass. and students who are unwiKmg to reason critically about Iheir religious beliefs should think twice before enrolling
COURSE: 80-306 Social Choice Theory & 
Computer Simulation
TIME: TTH 10:00.1120 LOCATION: BH 240 INSTRUCTOR: Leste Burkholder
COURSE DESCHPTCN:
Th course has two pans, bo bearng on the overall deme of how individuai rationaMy can somefrnes resi I coSecave materiality The frit pen considers the prisoner's dtamma and how il has been used lo hmnalo a variety of social phenomena Such a (Mamma arises whenever two or more agents frid tat tie result each rakonaSy pursuing his own eresi produces is worse dan what cot4d have been achieved had everyone acMd dMeremty The lecond pan conseters Arrows mpossMSy theorem and to nphcakons it may have lor to possMfy at besng coSeceve decisions on tie aggregation of indhriduaf preferences The deorem stales hat iere is no reasonable way in general lo put together rational dividual ptafeionces I gat a coSaceve choice
The pntnary come lexis w# be
MacKey Arrow x Pimt
Barry and Hardki. BflBUUiHLm
Iwnnet Snrx
The couree w* ute a numfcer of software packages lot Maoniosh M PCS. end Andrew madenee Theee nAide PO WORU). TARSKTS WORLD. TWOOTIE. and tome pragrams tor mut, laoor decoon matung me pragrams w* bs used lo leam bout Ihe praonafs dtemma and lo confed erated pnaonars dSemma toumamants. lo leam about ihe language toi rtl-o^er loge m order to understand tie praof of ArtoWt eorem. and lo mvestgate e vakdNy of le proof of Anoers tieorem
No backgraundm loge or le use 0 computers  be aasumed by t<e courte However. *> ooi  rentre you lo leam a Mae o* le CT programnung language lenough to wrte saratagwt lo play 1 an iieraled pntonart tBemma lournament) and lo leam enough loge lo tofkMi a formai proof of Arv's theorem and do sortie tma proofs yourtatf The course w havetaety traquant thon eaignmanti and no frialosawi
COURSE: 80-580 Topical Seminar: Situation 
Theory and Situation 
Semantics
TIME MW 1 00 2 20 LOCATION PH 20 INSTRUCTOR Carl Pollard
COURSE DESCRIPTION
Situation theory aims to devr.lop an axiomatic account of mathematical structures adequaie for explaining information flow, the process by which situations of certain types can convey information about other situations, withm a community of organisms which are attuned to the appropriate constraints In situation semantics, situation theory is applied to the special case of natural language, wherem language use situations carry information about other situations (the ones that linguistic utterances describe; withm a linguistic community In this seminar, we wtl examine some fundamental issues m these areas with a view to understanding current research. Topics to be considered include the reference/sense distinction the mentalism/realism debate possMe worlds vs situations the role of contexi m linguistic meaning names, quantification and anaphora propositions attitudes: dynamic aspects of discourse interpretation: semantic paradoxes; and set theoretic models tor sifutation theory
COURSE: 80-862 Poststructuralism
TIME TTh 1:00 220 LOCATION PH 2256 INSTRUCTOR Davto Carrier
COURSE OESCR^TICN
Literary critics ad critics and also some philosophers and an historians have recently been interested in the writings of the figures collectively known as the poststructuralists Barthes. Foucauft. Demda. Deteuze The mm ol course is to mtroduca Ihe philosophical wntmgs ol these figures, first by ptecmg them htstoncaSy w*hm the earfier iradrfon oI structuralism and ten by constftenng the parallels between their arguments and those given
recenty by analytic philosophers We wl be interested i boti 1 theory and da practice ot poststrudurahsm Since much ol de interest of poststructursksm lies et *ie prsckce of dese writers, we w read a nuntm of novels, and (scuts vsnous insual artworks, leslmg the  usefulness of dese theories Eiamples w# >idude Berthes readng of BaUac as a potlmoderrost novetsi. Foucamrs account of Velazquez tnd Magritte s parting: Demda on visual art: and Deleuze s ditcusson of Proust and N^zsche
The course has no prerequisites, but it presupposes Ihe abiMy to do a relatively large amount ol laely lechttcai raadng There wil be dass discussion, tnd dare are lo be Iwo papers and dree esams Thera  no final

---------------------------------------------------

1..............................
April 12,1988The TartanPage D13 (
GRIFF
HAIR SALON 
5437 WALNUT STREET 
SHADVSIDE 
621-9793
TEXTURE
SHAPE AND FORM
COLOR
MOVEMENT
VOLUME
CONDITION
Painting, prints at ForbesVictor Borge plays at 
Pittsburgh Symphony
By LORI MAURER
Tartan Stqffwriter
Victor Borge, returning to Heinz Hall 
after a seven year absence, will be fea
tured in the last Pops concert of the 1987- 
88 Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra sea
son on April 16, 17 and 18. He will 
perform a program including Svendens 
Fest-Polonaise, Bizets Intermezzo from 
Carmen Suite No. 1, Griegs Piano Con
certo, Komgolds Overture, J. Strauss 
Jr.s Voices of Spring and excerpts from 
Rachmaninovs Piano Concerto No. 2. 
Marilyn Mulvey will be the guest So
prano soloist and Michael Lankester will 
assist Borge in conducting the Sym
phony.
Borge, who is also known as the Great 
Dane, is a legendary figure in both music 
and comedy and in a combination of the 
two. He is the author of two books and has 
appeared countless times on radio, televi
sion and the Broadway stage.
Bom in Copenhagen and introduced to 
the piano at age three, Borge made his 
concert debut when he was eight years 
old, became known as a child prodigy 
throughout Denmark and was awarded 
numerous scholarships to further his 
education in music. While still in his early 
twenties, Borge became a leading film 
and stage personality in Scandinavia and 
was noted for the satiric nature of his 
humor. Borges biting satire made him a 
prime target for the Nazis in their inva
sion of his homeland and he was forced to 
flee to America before the advent of 
World War H.
Victor Borges career has soared ever 
since. He has received unanimous critical 
praise for his recording on the Desmar 
label with twelve other of the worlds 
foremost pianists and in 1984, he played 
a record-breaking sold out series of 
twelve consecutive performances at Car
negie Hall. He recently returned to New 
Yorks Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln 
Center for another successful sold-out 
engagement and will delight audiences 
once again in his return to the Pittsburgh 
stage this week.
continued from page Dll
exactly what the print will look like. When 
you pull a print its like opening a Christmas 
present. Because I dont worry so much about 
my prints they are a lot more personal and 
poetic. They are more successful since they 
dont get overworked.
Baileys influences include Vermeer, Ma
tisse, Diebenkom and Balthus. In the future, 
she would like to keep pushing her work 
toward the idea of content as construction, yet 
also be able to create human situations people 
can feel within those compositions.
Subject Matter through Abstraction 
Lindsey Nicholson, who will be showing 
paintings, prints and drawings, works ab
stractly, rather than employing the more real
istic mode of Ms. Bailey, yet their work shares 
many of the same concerns. Nicholson feels 
that her paintings are about the act of painting 
itself and its inherent process as she states, 
My work acts as a record of the event itself. 
She is concerned with the formal issues of 
painting, explaining that while she expresses 
feelings through color and landscape forms, 
most of the work is about formal composition. 
In early work, she never began a painting with 
a preconceived idea. While the work is ab
stract, it makes strong references to landscape 
with many ties to organic forms and shapes. 
All of my imagery is specific to me; she 
explains, [its] all about certain individual 
feelings and situations, but I want the painting 
to stand on its own. People should look at them 
aesthetically and draw their own meaning. 
Theyre my own personal fantasy worlds. 
Surface and pattern are also important to 
Nicholson. In the past, she deliberately cre
ated slick, textured surfaces, however, her 
work has begun to change and, like Baileys, 
her patterns and surfaces now develop through 
the process of painting.
Nicholsons work began to change this se
mester because of her feelings of dependence 
on formulas which she had developed for 
herself to make the paintings successful. I 
like to set up problems for myself, she re
marks, and I wanted to eliminate the crutches
I was using in my work. I felt I had come to a 
conclusion as to what painting was, I had 
developed a formula that worked. I felt too 
comfortable, so it had to change. The change
came about through a series of drawings which 
were based on graphic inky brushstrokes in
spired by the Abstract Expressionists Franz 
Kline and Robert Motherwell. Nicholson, 
who never used drawings before, began to 
make them into paintings to get the effect she 
wanted. The drawings helped me loosen up 
a lot, she explains, They were faster and I 
could do hundreds. I didnt feel like it had to 
be a finished product. Now my paintings are 
more direct. Theyre painted with a brush 
rather than poured. Nicholson likes her work 
to be chaotic and tangled together in a large 
orgy of shapes, an idea she feels relates to 
emotions, relations and the world at large. 
The world is intertangled. Every move dic
tates another in a giant rhythm which cant be 
escaped from, she remarks. Much of her 
work reflects states of anxiety and she finds the 
act of painting, itself, to be therapeutic. 
Nicholsons influences include Milton Avery 
for his beautiful simplicity, as well as Pollack 
and Kiefer for surfaces and texture. I like to 
work in confusion, Nicholson states, and for 
the future I see my paintings getting larger to 
help show me their faults and imperfections 
more easily.
ATTENTION JUNIORS: The running of the 
Forbes Gallery next year depends on your 
interest. Apply now for Director, Assistant 
Director, Public Relations Manager and 
Business Manager. Pick up applications on 
the third floor ofCFA. Deadline: April 28.
Gee Whiz!
By RONALD G. REDMOND
Tartan Stqffwriter
Fellow big bandleaders George Gee (of the 
Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra) and Tim 
Rogers (of The Western Union Swing Band) 
are originating the Pittsburgh chapter of The 
Swing Dance Society. The Pittsburgh Swing 
Dance Societys aim is to preserve the art form 
of big band swing music. There are already 
chapters in New York City, Boston, Washing
ton D.C., Chicago, Las Vegas and Los Ange
les.
Bandleader George Gee got the idea for this 
society after doing several dances in New 
York City for The NY Swing Dance Society. 
Also, the interest for the music and the multi
tude of dancers here in Pittsburgh made the 
origin of a local chapter a natural, comments 
Gee.
Kicking off the membership drive for The 
Pittsburgh Swing Dance Society will be a 
series of dances at Graffitis. Eventually these 
dances will be held regularly and sponsored by 
The Pittsburgh Swing Dance Society. The first 
was held on Thursday, April 7th. George Gee 
and his Make-Believe Ballroom Orchestra 
appeared at Graffitis, with special guests 
CMUs own Heavy Cats. The second series 
will follow in several weeks featuring Tim 
Rogers and The Western Union Swing Band. 
Admission to any of these dances will entitle 
the patron to free membership in the Swing 
Dance Society. For more information on the 
Society, call (412) 361-4616 or 829-1903.
The Ivy League Year in New York
Qualified upperclassmen are invited to apply for admission to 
Columbia College as visiting students beginning in September 
1988. Full access to housing, library resources, and upper divi
sion courses. For further information and an application, write 
or call:
Columbia College Admissions Office 
212 Hamilton Hall 
New York, New York 10027 
(212) 280-2521
After graduation, trade in your cap and gown for a qreat retail management career with the #1 off-price retailer in the nation - Marshalls! To apply, please send your resume to:
Marshalls. Inc.Mike Ross Director of Human Resources 30 Harvard Mill Square Wakefield, MA 01880
An equal opportunity employer 
_______________________________________________________________
Where's the Best Place to Hang Your Cap?

A Subsidiary of Mtlvillt Corp. 
il
A COMPANY ON THE MOVE.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D14The TartanApril 12,1988
TRAVELRELATED
SERVICES
Summer Housing Near Campus
 Furnished Rooms & Apartments, 
Private Bath
 All Ltilities Paid
 Ylaid & Linen Serv ice
 Laundrv & Parking
Only $70.00 weekly 
Only $240.00 monthly
682-7010
If you wish to submit an announcement, miscellaneous item, or event to The Tartan, 
send it to Campus Calendar / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania / 15213. Send it by. 
campus mail to the above address or drop it 
off at 5017 Forbes Ave. (The house between 
DU andATO.)
Please submit the following information 
when sending in events: Title of event, its sponsor, a brief description of the event, and 
its locations, date and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the person submitting the entry; this information 
will be used only to confirm the event.
LUXURY 1 BR OAKLAND-SHADYSIDE 
Faculty-Grad Students 
No Undergraduates 
Elevator, A/C, Kitchen 
equipped w/dishwasher, etc. 
Laundry, security, well maintained 
Glickman 521-9555
SHADYSIDE 2 BR MAY 1st 
Furnished or Unfurnished 
Large: Ideal of 3 or 4 
1 Block from Walnut St. 
Equipped remodeled kitchen & bath 
Glickman 521-9555
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 2 pm and 5 pm, in 
his office, 602 Warner Hall on Monday, April 
20,1988. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary on 
x2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open of
fice hours for students to discuss concerns, 
register complaints and help resolve prob
lems. Days and times available for appoint
ments are at the Skibo Information desk 
@x2107. Phone messages @x5764 (24 hrs a 
day).
Six Characters in Search of an Author.
The classic theatrical examination of illusion 
versus reality. Directed by Rina Yerulshalmi. 
Kresge Theatre. April 20-23. For more infor
mation call 268-2407.
Gordon Matta Clark. A retrospective ex
hibition of this conceptual artist, organized by 
the Museum of Contemporary Art, Chicago. 
Carnegie Mellon University Art Gallery, 407 
S. Craig St. Through April 10. Gallery Hours 
are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 
am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
6th International Exhibition of Botani
cal Art & Illustration. Featuring approxi
mately 150 works from collections in such 
cities as Toyko, Peking and Leningrad. Hunt
Library, 5th floor. Hours are 9 am-noon, 1 pm5 pm, Monday - Friday; 1 pm-5 pm, Saturday.
Shattered Self: Northwest Figurative 
Ceramics. Guest curator Matthew Kangas as
sembled the work of five ceramicists for the 
exhibition. The Society for Art in Crafts, 21st 
and Smallman Streets, the Strip District. April 
15 through June 26.
Featured Artist Exhibition: Robin
Kraft. Robin Krafts jewelry is a combination 
of her love of painting and metalwork. The 
Chicago artist compares her work to music; 
the pieces are lyrical and symbolize time with 
their rhythm, flow and syncopation. The 
Society for Art in Crafts, 21st and Smallman 
Streets, the Strip District. April 15 through 
June 26.
Vista International Hotel at Liberty 
Center kicks off its Spring series of Golden 
Triangle Tours for senior adults. This popular 
program is offered for members of Pittsburgh 
and Allegheny County senior centers and 
features a two-hour trek through historic 
neighborhoods followed by afternoon tea in 
the Vistas elegant Atrium Lounge. Organ
ized in cooperation with the Pittsburgh His
tory and Landmarks Foundation and DeBolt 
Unlimited Bus Company, the tours on April 
12,14,21,28 and May 19 are priced at $10 per 
person and include bus transportation for 
groups of 40, docent fee and afternoon tea. For
complete details, call the Vista Hotel at 281- 
3700.
Win a Week in Paris Plus Air during 
Springtime in Paris Festival at Vista Inter
national Hotel Pittsburgh. The world of classic 
Paris bistro is the main theme of the Spring
time in Paris festival taking place at the Vista 
at 1000 Penn Ave, downtown, from April 18 
through May 8. Vistas celebration of the 
uniquely French phenomenon  Paris bistro 
where food is simple, tasty and cooked from 
the heart  will culminate on Mothers Day 
with a Parisian bistro style brunch and a draw
ing of a lucky winner of the Festivals Grand 
Prize: Round trip for two to Paris on TWA 
plus a one-week stay at the Hilton Interna
tional Paris. For more information call the 
Vista International Hotel Pittsburgh at 281- 
3700.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate 
mass on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 
10:30 am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Au
ditorium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 
pm, Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Cam
pus? If you are experiencing attractions to
ward members of the same sex, the answer is 
yes. Join sympathetic peers for informal dis
cussions of issues that are important to you.
For details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
Buhl Science Center:
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-0111.
Sci-Tech 88. Through April 20. 2 pm, 
Monday through Thursday; 2 pm and 7 pm, 
Friday; 11 am, 2 pm and 4 pm, Saturday; and 
2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday.
The Red Planet Mars. Through June 14. 2! 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 2 pm and 7 
pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm and 4 pm, Saturday; 
and 2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 
1 pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
The Right Moves. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm-5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
Batter Up. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and noon
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Bio Corner. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and noon
- 5 pm, Sunday.
Image Imagination. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
noon - 5 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at
I pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm
- 9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and
noon - 5 pm, Sunday. 0)
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
Hansel and Gretel. This classic tale by the 
Brothers Grimm comes to life as a poor wood
cutter is forced to abandon his children in the 
forest. Hansel and Gretel find (and taste) a 
gingerbread house, are trapped by an evil 
witch, and have only their own courage and 
cleverness to reassure them. Through May 29.
II am and 2:30 pm, Saturday; 2:30 pm, Sun
day.
How to stand out
in a crowd.
The American Express* Card gets an outstanding welcome 
virtually anywhere you shop, whether its for a leather jacket 
or a leather-bound classic. Whether youre bound for 
a bookstore or a beach in Bermuda. So during college 
and after, its the perfect way to pay for just about 
everything youll want.
How to get the Card now.
College is the first sign of success. And because we 
believe in your potential, weve made it easier 
to get the American Express Card right now 
Whether you're a freshman, senior or 
grad student, look into our new automatic 
approval offers. For details, pick up an 
application on campus. 
Or call 1-800-TH E-CARD and ask for 
a student application. 
The American Express Card. 
Don't I^eave School Without Itf*

---------------------------------------------------

-
MidgetSmall people hurt in big ways, 
-the penguin
" To the DoomYo, whats up with that?
-the Team
E=mc2
Very good, Albert, but next time 
show your work: D$ -the grading staff of CMU
How does one flatter a pretty lady? 
Compliment her look and one 
merely speaks the truth.
Hey Almondtree'
Hows Bugface??
Adam, Fed, Javi, Jerry, Jessie, Jim, 
Joey, J.T., Katie, Kevin, Kym, 
Marquet, Nancy, Nick, Shawn, 
Tamar - youre great! Were almost 
there ' lets do it!
'Laura
Darlene'
When we come back from 
Spring Break, it will be five (no, 
not break'Ups, stupid).
'Your goof
Velcro, Huh? What?
* 'Lounge Lizards
P, K, C, S (aka The hall)'
Thanks for the advice.
-an innocent(?) freshman
All those people who are 
followed in the crime and 
incident report have paranoid 
delusions.
Lunch'time GirlAn artist with a tan?
-Still Smiling
Dear A.-
I still would like to know who 
you are. How about a hint. Call 
my answering machine and leave a 
message.
'F.
PS: I sent a message last week, but 
it didnt appear.
The coolest feeling arises when you 
know that:
A) you have just finished your 
10'hour computer program
B) you are eating Chinese 
instead of Kiltie
C) the girl sitting next to you in 
Biology is wearing no 
underwear under her mini' 
skirt.
'Compiled by the hustler 
Matt' Only 164 days!
ES'
Meet me in Grey Matter 
tomorrow at 5:00 or 9:00 at your 
convenience.
'YSA
Wednesday night is Ladies Night at 
Campus Security ... and I want all 
of the balloons, too!
Kappa SigmaThey say the third time is a 
charm. Buzz, wrong answer. Beat 
it nerds.
-the scum
Spankin Natoral!
Dear KrisRear View Mirror 
-Truly, Dinky
Who cares who 
Stan 
KJ
Keith
Tim
Harold
Wayne
Joe
etc... are?
JSBthe things the cds put us 
through just for some consistency.
They say flattery will get you no 
where. Im hoping theyre wrong. 
Look for (or listen for) me at the 
Buggy Starting Line.
PASFollow you, follow me. I wish I 
could have followed you home. I 
missed you.
-Love, Felice
Wait!!
Have you met my friend 
Lauradunner?
OY!
And did those guys LOOK like 
football players! I love it - brains to 
boot. Now this is CMU.
Oh my God, hes eating the Bronx. 
Better watch out, hes heading for 
Jersey! Nats ^t the munchies, 
Nats got the munchies, so youd 
better watch out!!
JCandJHLets get together again: Docs, 
Mardi Gras, snowball fights, the 
Os fries, and prospective'students 
from Paraguay! What a fun trio: 
Muskateers or Stooges?
-Love, NZ
Hey Kap Sig'
You guys should know the Scum 
always rises to the top of the Pond.
Mankind was destined to live on 
the edge of perpetual disaster. We 
are mankind because we survive. 
We do it in a half-assed way, but 
we do it.
-Richard P. Feynman
Send Submissions to: 
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Ski bo Info. Desk
please limit entries to 25 
words and one per person 
please
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
SUMMER JOB DIRECTORY will be 
available starting April 25th, 1988 in the 
Financial Aid Department on the 2nd floor of 
Warner Hall.
ARTS LOVERS  MUSEUM BUFFS  
w THE CARNEGIE, PITTSBURGHS 
OLDEST AND LARGEST Cultural com
plex, is searching for exceptionally superb 
communicators to secure contributions by 
phone. Permanent, part time. 22 and 1/2 
hours per week, 5 days per week. Morning or 
evening shifts. Guaranteed salary with bo
nus. Excellent training. Commitment to the 
arts a must! Call 622-8840 form 9:30 am^ noon only.
COUNSELORS WANTEDTrim-down 
physical fitness coed NYS overnight camp. 
Great times helping kids! All sports, WSIs, 
theatre, arts and crafts, piano, guitar, dance, 
aerobics, computers, go-carts, rocketry, 
general, needle-craft, weight training, 
kitchen, office, RNs, batik, ceramics. Camp 
ft Shane, Femdale, NY 12734. (914) 292- 
4045.
NEW ENGLAND BROTHER/SISTER 
CAMPS  (Mass) Mah-Kee-Nac for Boys/ 
Danbee for Girls. Counselor positions for 
Program Specialists: All Team Sports espe
cially Baseball, Basketball, Field Hockey,
Soccer, and Volleyball; 25 Tennis openings; 
also, Archery, Riflery and Biking; other 
openings include Performing Arts, Fine 
Arts, Yearbook, Photography, Video, Cook
ing, Sewing, Rollerskating, Rocketry, 
Ropes, and Camp Craft; All Waterfront ac
tivities (Swimming, Skiing, Small Craft). 
Inquire Action Camping (Boys) 190 Linden 
Ave., Glen Ridge, NJ 07028; (Girls) 44 
Center Grove Road, H-21, Randolph, NJ 
07869. Phone: Boys (201) 429-8522; Girls 
(?01) 328-2727.
BAND AUDITIONS  Keyboards, Bass 
Guitar, Lead Guitar. Must be able to commit 
to weekly gigs. Call Rudy: 941-5974 Dave: 
681-1056.
#206XT, Los Angeles^0025. Toll free (800) 
351-0222, Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD
MINUTEMAIDS: WE CUSTOMIZE 
OUR SERVICE TO YOUR HOUSE
KEEPING NEEDS. Serving Pittsburgh 8 
years, insured & bonded, 682-3860. Free 
estimates.
TYPING SERVICE
Call 741-4838.
Reasonable prices.
Housing
TERRIFIC SUMMER HOUSING.
Lovely furnished rooms with private bath, 
maid and linen service, all utilities paid, 
parking and more. Weekly only $70. 
Monthly just $240. Call today 682-7025.
SQUIRREL HILL huge bright 2-3 BR 
apartments. Minutes from CMU. Secure, 
laundry. $595-725, available 9/1. 371-7017.
Services
RESEARCH PAPERS: 15,278 available! 
Catalog $2. Research, 11322 Idaho,
WORD PROCESSOR TYPING  Stu
dent papers, resumes, letters. Can store for 
future use. Reasonable rates. Call Kathy 
(826-0458) weekdays after 5:00 or week
ends.
ALEXS FLOWERS  Formals  birth
days anniversariescheer upmore  
Corsages $1.65 and up. Mylar balloons 
$2.85. 687-4128/687-ALEX (Comer of 
Craig and Bayard) Delivery.
MOVING AND STORAGE SERVICE
Graduates and college students moving 
locally, long distance or world-wide. Free 
estimates with guaranteed prices. 441 -4600.
THESIS PAPERS TYPED  Reasonable 
rates, dependable service. Call Quality Typ
ing 853-5904. Mail-in service available.
FOREIGN STUDENTS, IMMIGRANTS
 Dont take chances. Green cards, status 
change, amnesty, legalization  Call 
immigration attorney George Mowod  
421-4447. Student rates available.
DIANES PROFESSIONAL WORD 
PROCESSING  Catering to students and 
small businesses. Term papers, resumes, 
correspondence. Oakland location. Call 279- 
4272 or 681-5207.
GRADUATION... YOUR FIRST PRO
FESSIONAL JOB... Where do you look? 
The Pittsburgh Business Employment 
Weekly. We research the hidden Pittsburgh 
area job market for you!! Professional job 
listings mailed to your home each week!! 
Call 372-9081 for free information.
Miscellaneous
PREGNANT? NEED HELP?  Confiden
tial counseling  Free pregnancy test  262- 
1220, Airport Area Crisis Pregnancy Center.
PREGNANT AND MAY NOT FEEL 
READY FOR PARENTING? YOU MAY 
WANT TO CONSIDER PERSONAL 
ADOPTION. We are a cookie-baking 
mommy and teddy-bear daddy hoping to 
give a child a warm and secure home. Well 
offer you a chance to meet and talk with us, 
medical expenses and housing. Most impor
tant, its ALL legal and confidential. Call 
anytime collect (412) 221-8622.
ANYONE WHO WITNESSED 
ACCIDENT on 12/30/87,9:50 pm, N. Craig 
and Winthrop, Oakland, between Cadillac 
and VW rabbit. Call Harry Booth. 678-2300.

---------------------------------------------------

Page D16The TartanApril 12,1988
Events
12
Movies
My Life As a Dog, starring Anton Glanzelius, 
Tomas von Bromssen and Anki Linden. De
lightful comedy-drama about the unpredict
able life of a 12-year old boy who is sent to live 
with relatives in a rural village in Sweden. 
Remarkable insights into the life of children. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Pornographers. One of the funniest, 
blackest, most outrageous Japanese films in 
years. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth 
Street, Downtown. For more information call 
471-9700.
Lectures
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Professor Giles R. Cokelet, Univer
sity of Rochester, speaks on Fluid Dynamic 
Aspects of Blood Flow through Microvascular Systems at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and 
pastries served at 10:45 in Conference Room 
1102.
Metallurgical Engineering and Materials 
Science Seminar. Dr. James H. Cox, Bethle
hem Steel Corp., speaks on Analysis of the 
Requirements for the Direct Strip Casting of 
Carbon Steel at 3 pm in WeH 7500.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Alpha Phi Omega, the National Service Fra
ternity, meets every week at 8 pm in Breed 
Hall, MM 103. All are welcome.
WRCT Schedule. Rock Garden, live per
formances taped or received by WRCT. 
Group: Carsickness. WRCTs frequency is 
88.3 FM.
Sports
Golf. Slippery Rock Invitational.
Mens Tennis. Away match against John 
Carroll University.
I----------------------------------------------------------^13 Wednesday
Movies
My Life As a Dog. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Pornographers. One of the funniest, 
blackest, most outrageous Japanese films in 
years. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth
Street, Downtown. For more information call 
471-9700.
Special Events
Educational Action on Latin America 
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All
are welcome. For more information call Peter 
at x7651.
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturday at 
4:30 in Grey Matter. Everyone invited. 
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Music
De Larrocha in Y Recital. The illustrious 
Spanish pianist Alicia de Larrocha performs at
8 pm in the Morris Kaufmann Auditorium of 
the Bellefield Annex in Oakland.
Sports
Mens Track & Field. Home meet against 
Grove City College at 3:30 pm.
14 Thursda.v
__________________ J
Movies
My Life As A Dog. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Pornographers. One of the funniest, 
blackest, most outrageous Japanese films in 
years. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth 
Street, Downtown. For more information call 
471-9700.
Stalig 17, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Artist Lectures.
Gary Indiana, art critic and writer, speaks at 7 
pm in the Adamson Wing, BH.
Special Events
The Theolog is In. From 11 am to 3 pm in 
Grey Matter, members of CMs Campus 
Ministry Council are available for conversa
tion on matters of theology, ethics or any
thing else youve always wanted to know 
about religion but were afraid to ask. Please 
stop by.
German Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a German Language 
table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Sports
Womens Track and Field. Home meet 
against Robert Morris College and Duquesne 
at 3:30 pm.
r
Movies
Tampopo, starring Tsutomu Yamazake and 
Nobuko Miyamoto. Hilarious, off-the-wall 
satire about the owner of a small diner in 
Tokyo and her search for the perfect noodle 
recipe. Some very funny scenes, and one that 
is right out of 9 1/2 Weeks. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Housekeeping. Immediately and in a terribly 
funny way, Scottish director Bill Forsyth un
ravels the sprawling history of a quirky North
western family and its two youngest members. 
Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 Sixth Street, 
Downtown. For more information call 471 - 
9700.
Lectures
Carnegie Mellon University Objectivist Fo
rum. Peter Schwartz speaks on A Moral 
Defense of Americas Nuclear Arms at 8 pm.
Special Events
Director of Academic Computing, Jean 
Dexheimer. Open office hours for students at
2 pm - 5 pm. No appointment necessary 
Shabbat dinner. Come and enjoy Friday 
night dinner with the crowd at JUC. Reserva
tions are required by preceding Wednesday. 
Jewish University Center, 160 N. Craig Street, 
at 5:30 pm. Price for dinner is $4.25 for 
members and $5.25 for non-members. Call 
621-8875 for details.
Sports
Golf. UAA Invitational at Rochester.
J
Movies
Tampopo. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 
9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Housekeeping. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 
101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For more infor
mation call 471-9700.
La Bamba, sponsored by SDC Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. 
Admission $ 1.
Special Events
Learn to Juggle! The Pittsburgh Juggling 
Club meets every Wednesday and Saturda., at 
4:30 in Greymatter. Everyone invited.
Sports
Mens Tennis. Away match against Thiel 
College at 1 pm.17 Sunday
Movies
Tampopo. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Housekeeping. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 
101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For more infor
mation call 471-9700.
King Kong, sponsored by AB Films. DH at 6 
pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Escape from New York, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. 
Admission $ 1.
18 Monday
Movies
Tampopo. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Housekeeping. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 
101 Sixth Street, Downtown. For more infor
mation call 471 -9700.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Langur  
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
,  'A. .- ' '
io** (0 JtsfWm Ucc. Funb&t
nNe
w\y i}/ M V^/Vnl ,V , M/*sAl I,, vy> w s VfrW MV, V \VV? u tftj

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page C2The TartanApril 12,1988
Sprirjg Carrfival 1988
Midway booth plots and themes
13579111315 25272931
EntrancewayGravitron
246810121416 26283032
1. WRCT
2. WRCT
3. ATOTrojan Horse
4. Lambda SigmaSnow White
5. Phi Kap1001 Nights
6. Swim Team
7. Sigma NuJonah and the Whale
8. Theta XiJack and the Beanstalk
9. SDCThe Emperors New Clothes
10. KKGPeter Pan
11. ThetaPied Piper
12. KDRThe Crooked Man
13. Baseball Club
14. PikaA Fairy Tale
15. CIALittle Red Riding Hood
16. Computer ClubThe Goose That Laid the Golden Egg
17. PioneersThe Little Engine That Could
18. Sigma Tau GammaRobin Hood
19. Delta GammaThe Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe
20. SpiritThe Fisherman
21. DUWillie Wonka and the Chocolate Factory
22. SAEOld Woman in the Shoe
23. DDDRapunzel
24. AEPiThe Cuckoo Clock
25. AFROTCThe Frog Prince
26. Kappa SigmaThree Billy Goats
27. PilamWhere the Wild Things Are
28. Chi OmegaPinnochio
29. FringeThree Little Pigs
30. DTDHansel and Gretel
3 k Army ROTCKing Arthur
32. Hockey
According to Midway Chairman David Lyons, Mid
way this year will6 be different from any Carnival any
one has ever seen.
Spring Camivat Taint Tates:
When you just can't get the real thing
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
Thousands from the CMU and Pittsburgh 
communities will attend Spriifg Carnival 88 
from the time Midway officially opens on 
Thursday afternoon to its close with the 
awards ceremony on Saturday evening.
This year, however, several changes in secu
rity and Midway organization will make this 
Carnival different from previous years.
Last year, security was a major concern. The 
introduction of security monitors, who pa
trolled Midway as well as the rest of the
The buggy design and display competition 
will take place on Thursday, with preliminary 
Sweepstakes races on Friday and Sweepstakes 
on Saturday.
Entertainment this year will include the 
bands The Alarm, Hector in Paris, a cappella 
group Jabberwocks, Carsickness, The Heavy 
Cats, the Jazz Choir, Kiltie Band, and The 
Image, as well as comedian Edward Jackman.
Movies offered include Stalig 17, La Bamba, 
and The Neverending Story. In addition, 
Scotch n Soda will present Improv 88: 
Evening Explosion, a which will rely heavily
campus 24 hours, helped. The sheer volume of 
people, however, gave way to fights. Part of 
the problem was crowded lines blocking the 
flow of traffic at the A Phi O concessions 
booth, which was located near the middle of 
Midway,. This year, the A Phi O booth will be 
near the entrance way, to avoid glutting in the 
middle of Midway. Last year fights prompted 
the close of Midway early on Friday evening. 
Typically, Thursday evening is mainly for 
CMU students, Friday attracts people from 
Oakland, and Saturday is family-oriented.
This year, less security monitors will patrol 
and in shorter shifts  from about noon to 
midnight or 1 am.
Since both Skibo parking lots are being used 
for Midway and rides, parking will be at a 
premium.
This year, the CMU community may pur
chase a $5 ride ticket that will allow them to 
pay one price and ride all the rides only on 
Thursday night. Tickets will be available only 
on Thursday at the ticket booth. CMU ID is 
required. Tickets for the other nights will be 
pre-sold today through Thursday morning at 
the Skibo Info desk. Pre-purchasing saves 250 
on each ticket.
This year the Saturday night awards cere
mony will be held on the Cut, allowing for 
more room than a tent.
on audience participation. AB is sponsoring a 
Baby Huey and the Babysitters dance and 
SDC is holding a Vinyl Frontiers dance.
A Phi O service fraternity is sponsoring 
Charitable Chairs, a musical chairs contest to 
benefit Childrens Hospital, and the Ugliest 
Man on Campus Contest, which will raise 
money for SAMS.
Other acitivities include face painting, a 
caricatures, the consumption of a huge ginger
bread house, a student Cabaret in Scotland 
Yard, and a fireworks display Friday night.
According to Midway Chairman Dave 
Lyons, the Midway this year should be more 
spread out because of the extra space and be 
different from any Carnival anyone has ever 
seen.
Once upon a time >>_____
That time is coming soon for organizations sponsoring 
booths. As the week continues, construction will get more 
frantic as booth committees scramble to meet their 4:00 
Thursday deadline, (photos by Howdy Pierce)
Above: SAE booth chairman Allan Wagman, top, and brother Pete Shields hard at 
work.
Above: Lambda Sigmas seven dwarf 
beads await the completion of the rest of 
their booth.
Left: In one week, this Midway site will 
be filled with activity.
____________________________________ J
their booth Sunday. The 
DU theme is Willie 
Choco---------------------------------------------------

April 12,1988The TartanPage C3
Womens buggy competition takes off
Head Judge offers observations, picks on Sweepstakes
photo by Andy Gillespie
Delta Upsilons two-wheel buggy was un# stable but speedy during freerolls this week.
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Staffwriter 
Sweepstakes has finally arrived, bringing 
with it the intense competition that marks the 
Carnegie Mellon campus in the spring. This 
year proves to be no exception. Womens 
buggy is taking off; eleven teams are slated to 
compete.
Women in buggy have come a long way 
since the first time they competed in 1979. 
Nine years ago Carnegie Involvement Asso
ciation, Pi Lambda Phi, Student Dormitory 
Council and the Society of Women Engineers 
took place in sweepstakes with CIA winning 
with a time of 3:04.7 . In 1987 the record was 
broken three times by Spirit A, CIA A, and Pi 
Kappa Alpha A.
In Sweepstakes 88, who knows? At this 
point the predicted competition is between 
Spirit, Beta Theta Pi (Delta Gamma), and Pika 
(Kappa Alpha Theta). As Thetas Diane Vandigo put it, Well see on race day.
The womens teams seem to be confident 
about doing well in this year's races and they 
are also going out to have a good time.
There are also a lot of personal goals for each 
team. Aelan Tierney of Fringe commented 
that the group has pretty high expectations, 
and would like to do better than it did last year. 
Amy Somrak of Phi Kappa Thetas independ
ently assembled team feels that they have a lot 
of potential with most of the girls being freshcontinued on page C6Mysterious CompuBookie offers buggy guide 88
By COMPUBOOKIE
Special to The Tartan 
This years Sweepstakes competition should 
be more intense than ever before. With Spirits
0 1987 entrance into the winners circle, the 
usual gruesome foursome  Beta, Sigma Nu, 
Pika and CIA  now have more to worry 
about on race day than just the weather. 
Combine this fact with some fine spring freeroll times from DU and KDR, and the result is 
that making the Top 10 will not be as easy as 
it has been for some organizations.
The mens races wont be the only exciting
event this year. The womens heats prove to be 
just as competitive. Last years womens tro
phy winner, Spirit, must fight off an incredibly 
enthusiastic Delta Gamma and the always 
strong Kappa Alpha Theta, both of whom have 
been vigorously training for months. Lets 
hope there wontbe any heatedexchanges at 
the exchanges during their heats.
There will be a whole slew of new buggies 
this year from new organizations and old ones 
alike. CIA, KDR and Pika have been working 
diligently on new speedsters, which can only 
add to the race day excitement.
Once again, the weather here in Pittsburgh 
has not treated the organizations too well this 
Spring. Inclement weather has lessened the 
number of freerolls and push practices for 
these Buggy enthusiasts, and this, too, will be 
a serious factor for those organizations vying 
for the 1 st place trophy.
On the bright side, thanks to some happy 
painter, we now have cute, little yellow lines 
along the back hills. These will undoubtedly 
come in handy for those drivers who might 
forget where they are going or for those or
ganizations who have had a little trouble keep
ing a straight line. Dont laugh, its been hap
pening to quite a few.
Finally, this is a year of sweeping changes 
in safety rules for buggies. These rules have 
caused havoc in several buggy programs. 
Hopefully, the new rules will ensure safer 
races this year and, after seeing recent events 
at freerolls, they might somehow make the hay 
a little softer and sweeter.
Heres to a competitive and safe Sweep
stakes. Maybe we can put off Joe DeNardo to 
prevent rains from disqualifying Saturday 
heats this year, and then we can see the races 
the way they oughta be run (won?).
freeroll times accumulated over the spring 
rolls, it seems that the top finishers will be 
Beta, Pika, Spirit, CIA and the Zoo (not in that 
order). Sigma Nu has a good chance at the cup 
under one condition, that they make it through 
the chute.
The top six, however, is not the result that 
will be exciting on Friday. The six will pro
duce some pretty good times, but Im more 
interested in the fight for positions 8,9, and 10. 
KDR, whose premier appearance brought two 
top ten spots last year, looks strong for another 
top 10 position. Theta Xi, despite previous 6 
and 7 place finishes, looked very weak in 
freerolls all year long. Fringe, which finished 
tenth three years ago, has a possible shot at the 
finals, if their push teams can keep up with the 
big boys.
The organization to watch this year will be 
Delta Upsilon. The controversial two-wheel 
buggies for 3 years running are coming up with 
impressive times, and who knows how high in 
the top ten standings they may go.
Womens Races
There may be a slight shift in women's races, 
with new organizations emerging and others 
continued on page C6
photo by Dan J. Dowhan
The SDC buggy crew waits alongside their four buggies for their turn at freerolls on hill 
one outside the gymnasium.
Mens Predictions
1) Beta
2) Spirit
3) Pika
4) DU
5) Sigma Nu
6) CIA
7) KDR
8) Pika B
9) Beat B
10) Theta Xi
Womens Predictions
1) Spirit
2) Beta (DG)
3) Pika (Theta)
Alumni Predictions
1) Pika
2) CIA
3) Sigma Nu
Comments on Mens Division
1) Beta  First victory since 1978.
2) Spirit  Holding a title is harder than
continued on page C7
Fringe carefully unloads its buggy in preparation for freerolls.
By STEVE NG
Special to The Tartan 
With a week left to race day, organizations 
are making final preparations for the time 
when Sanfords gun goes off to start the races. 
The freerolls this past weekend went very 
C smoothly, and it was great to see Kappa Sigma, 
Pilam, Pioneers, AEPi and ATO out there 
trying to meet the requirements to participate 
this Friday. Hey, better late than never. Per
haps this year may be one of the only years in 
which all buggy organizations may partici
pate. The following are some observations 
made over the course of the spring rolls and 
may possibly provide some insight to the 
{ possible victors on Saturday.
Mens Races
This year, to predict a winner is an impossi
bility. However, I will undertaking the stan
dard naming of the usual top 4 or 6. From

---------------------------------------------------

T9u8s

---------------------------------------------------

Buggy Display and Design Competition 
Pre Sale Ride Tickets 
Opening Ceremonies 
Women s Track w/ Bethany, Duquesne, 
Geneva, Robert Morris, & St. Francis 
Jazz Choir 
AB Movie Stalig 17 
Scotch n Soda'Vmprov 88:Evening Explosion
AB Movie Stalig 17
AB Dance: Baby Huey and the Babysitters' 
Classic Cartoons 
AB Movie Stalig 17 
Midway Closes
Tech & Frew Sts.
Midway
Tent
Midway
Cut
Midway
Cut
Tent
Tent
Preliminary Sweepstakes Races
Midway Opens
The Heavy Cats (Jazz Band)
Face Painting
Ugliest Man On Campus-UMOC (all day) 
Caricaturist
AB Conceit : The Alarm 
Edward Jackman (Comedian)
Kiltie Band
Scotch n Soda7mprov 88:
Evening Explosion
Buggy Movie 
Cabaret
SDC Dance: Vinyl Frontiers
Classic Cartoons 
Fireworks (Saturday if rain)
Midway Closes
Gym
Info Desk 
Midway
Stadium
Tent
DH2210
Ballroom
DH2210
Tent
Wherrett Room
DH2210
Midway
9:00pm1:00am 
10:00pm-2:00am 
10:00jtoi 
Midnight
Ballroom
Tent
Scotland Yard 
Tent
Wherrett Room
Stadium
Midway
fairy tales
^Categie Melloti
Ballroom 
Tent 
DH2210 
Scotland Yard
93
10;'
30 Mn10: 
IWidnig]ht*
Midway Closes 
Closing Ceremonies 
SDC Movie La Bamba 
Movie: The Never ending Story 
SDC Movie La Bamba
Midway
Cut
DH2210
Tent
DH2210
Spftt^Carnival 1988 
ScheduTe of events oApftl 14-16
Funded by your Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page C6The TartanApril 12,1988
Concert Preview
Event PreviewConcert Preview
The Alarm is set to go off on the Cut Friday
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Staffer iter
On all of their albums, the 
Alarm writes catchy, very pop 
tunes that tend towards the anthemic, even when their subject 
isnt worthy of such deification. 
However, their latest album, Eye 
Of The Hurricane, dumps some 
of the protest in favor of a few 
more routine events. And, on 
Saturday, the front-running can
didates for Band Formerly Most 
In Need Of A Few Hundred Vali
ums, will be bringing their stri
dent and energetic show to Carni
val, along with Face to Face.
The Wales band first appeared 
on the American scene in 1983 
with their self-titled EP, which 
yielded the single Marching 
On. While the songs on the al
bum were good pop fodder, the 
bands neo-Western outfits and 
hazy political statements put 
their sincerity into some doubt. 
Many considered them to be little 
more than a copy of other bands 
like U2, who, incidentally, pro
vided the Alarm with their first 
U.S. exposure when they opened
photo courtesy A Phi O
A past UMOC candidate from ATO gives 
new meaning to the word ugly.
happy. However, considering 
the price of the show, how bad 
can it be? Check it out  at 
worst, itll be a night of loud 
guitars and singalong songs. At 
best, itll be a night of loud gui
tars and singalong songs, al
though in this case, you might 
enjoy it.
Face to Face, the band opening 
for the Alarm, may sound famil
iar for a few things theyve done. 
They  ve had a fair-sized hit a few 
years ago with 10, 9, 8, which 
is a terrible song released from an 
album containing much better 
songs like Out Of My Hands. 
They helped out in various ways 
on the soundtrack for Streets of 
Fire in various combinations. 
(Rumor has it that they were ac
tually the band called Fire, Inc., 
but its still unsubstantiated.) 
Then they released an album that 
basically went nowhere, and got 
stuck. Call it the Patty Smythe 
Syndrome, if you will, although 
they stayed together. Regardless, 
they should be a decent opening 
band for the Alarm  when Face 
to Face gets everything right, 
they can produce some tight hard 
pop, which should suit just fine.
UMOC  Its back.Kiltie Band to play Midway
for U2 on their 1983 summer tour.
However, if these guys are copies, 
they ve been copying for some years 
now. After two more albums, Declaenhance his or her ugli
ness.
Voting will kick off 
Carnival weekend, with 
pictures of contestants 
displayed at a table on 
the Cut Friday and Sat
urday. Voting will be at 
H = 1 vote, with pro
ceeds to benefit SAMS. 
Voting will continue for 
two weeks and the win
ner will be announced 
on April 30.
The top three winners 
will receive ugly mugs. 
For more information or 
to enter a candidate, call 
the A Phi O office at 
x2116.
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
At 5:00 pm Friday, the Kiltie Band 
will don its authentic Tartan plaid 
uniforms to present a 40-minute 
concert in the Midway tent.
The band will play such tunes as 
Hands Across the Sea, a John 
Phillips Sousa march 
Symphonic Variations on 
Amazing Grace, a Claude T. Smith 
arrangement of the traditional spiri
tual
An Ellington Portrait, a medley 
of Duke Ellington favorites ar
ranged by Floyd E. Werle 
President Joel Douglas, a junior, 
was looking forward to the show.
ration, more of the same vague spiri
tual-political songs like The Stand 
with lots of worthwhile riffs and lots 
of unnecessary overproduction, and 
Strength, with a more personal 
stance and more subdued produc
tion, the Alarm has released Eye Of 
The Hurricane, a combination of the 
two styles. Released after a two year 
hiatus, during which the members of 
the band worked their way through 
some internal conflicts, the album 
reflects a new maturity resulting 
from the calmer natures within the 
band. Songs dont have to be about 
saving the world; instead, they can 
be about simpler things like rain 
(Rain In The Summertime), al
though the anthems are still around 
(One Step Closer To Home). The
photo courtesy I.K.S. Records
The Alarm will perform on the Cut Friday afternoon at 2:00 pm.
production is still smooth, too  
maybe a bit too smooth, but thats 
personal preference, not to be con
fused with anything like criticism.
The Alarm supposedly puts on a 
good live show  lots of energy 
combined with just enough com
mercialism to keep the masses
By JUDY HARABURDA
Tartan Features Co-Editor 
Kappa chapter of A Phi O na
tional service fraternity here at 
Carnegie Mellon is again spon
soring the Ugliest Man on Cam
pus contest.
Any Carnegie Mellon student 
(male or female) is eligible and is 
encouraged to use makeup, etc. to
Weve been practicing all se
mester so we hope to see a lot of 
people there.
Band members have been prac
ticing their show once a week 
since January.
The band, under the direction of 
Paul Gerlach, operates under the 
Division of Student Affairs. It 
contains over 35 members from 
all colleges. Bandsmen do not 
receive credit for participation.
Spotlight on Eventson Events
Past Chairman 
presents 1988 picks
continued from page C3
fading back in the rankings. But in the past 3 years 
womens heats have become faster and faster.
The Kappa Alpha Theta sorority pushing for Pika looked 
very, very strong last weekend, and will have an excellent 
time.
Spirit womens team also place their well-trained A-team 
in the top 6, although another record breaking time is 
doubtful.
Tri-Delts behind Sigma Nu technology will also place 
highly. Strong pushers and a quick buggy are all it takes to 
make top speeds.
Delta Gamma pushing Beta is a possible up-and-coming 
front-runner. Watch for these women to do well.
Fringe and CIA women seem to have lost some experi
ence, losing many veteran A-team pushers, although both 
will probably still make top 6 finals.
There are, as I have said earlier, many possibilities this 
year. What makes it so tough to pick a victor are the 
intangibles. Many organizations have plenty to prove, and 
a lot of pride and respect to regain. And these factors alone 
can take seconds off hill times, make buggies more precise 
and allow drivers to hold that perfect line.
Steve Ng was last year's Sweepstakes Saftey Chairman. 
He will be Head Judge for this years sweepstakes.
Womens buggy looks strong
photo by Andy Gillespie
A buggy rolls through the chute early one 
morning this week.
continued from page C3
men and sophomores. She adds that
they are in it for the fun.
On a more serious note, Rae Thiesfield of Spirit wants to be as 
competitive as the group was last 
year and notes that team members 
are looking for total domination.
The female push teams have 
improved from past years, due to the 
amount of training and to the 
participation of the sororities. As 
Thiesfield commented, the women 
are close to comparable to the 
guys.
The big difference between mens 
and womens buggy is that the 
women dont, as DGs Becky 
Brown put it, breathe, sleep and die
buggy. Brown was excited about 
the support that DG was receiving
 she felt that weve got the house 
(Beta) behind us.
Training, enthusiasm and support 
among the womens push teams is 
going to make 1988 a very competi
tive year. The attitude is that since  
women are a part of CMU, they 
should take a strong role in buggy.
Beta chairman Roy Guy is person
ally waiting for the day that the - 
sororities build their own buggy. It 
is entirely possible that it will come 
to that someday soon. If women in 
buggy have progressed this far in the 
nine years since the first time they # 
competed, in another nine they may 
even beat the guys.
Photography MeetingWe need lots of people to take Carnival pictures! 
Meet in The Tartan office, Skibo basement, at 6pm 
Wednesday night. Everyone's welcome.

---------------------------------------------------

April 12,198The TartanPage C7
tR<R<RtRtR
Buy tickets 
while theyre cheap!
Pre-sale tickets for the Rides 
go on sale today at the Info. Desk!
PAY ONE PRICE !!!!
Ride all day Thursday for one low price! Show your CMU ID at the ticket booth
CompuBookie comments on Sweepstakes lineup
continued from page C3
Comments on Mens Division
praying for rain.
3) PikaA good skew up will place them in 
third.
4) DU  Eliminating hill 3 earns this rank. 
^ 5) Sigma Nu  Assuming they make the
chute.
6) CIA  Still losing the Magic; 3rd, 5th, 
now 6th.
7) KDR  No more beginners luck, its 
uphill from here.
8) Pika B  As usual.
9) Beta B  Ibid.
10) TX  Lucky to make Top 10.
^ Comments on Womens Division
1) Spirit  Running away with a second 
victory.
2) BetaNew anchor secures second place.
3) Pika  Greek Sing victory cant be 
matched.
happened to the Orange Crush in the Super 
Bowl.
PioneersThey actually believed that they 
would set a new record? At least theyve 
quieted down this year.
ATO  Who?
SDCWith Phil gone, SDC should stick to 
buying new televisions for Morewood Gar
dens.
Pika  A few wrecks this spring, crooked 
free-rolls and a cheezy effort just wont add up 
to 1 st place for Pika.
BetaThese Guys have matured enough 
to bring the trophy home.
DU  Theory: Two wheels are better than 
three.
Fact: Real trophies are better than theoretical 
ones.
Phi Kap  Congratulations on Greek Sing.
DTD  A 2-handled push bar cant do well, 
DU think so?
Sigma Nu  The Estes curse is gone. Now 
the Zoos taste for hay may be over the hill.
Air Force  Due to the imminent coup in 
Panama, were not sure if theyll be here for 
race day.
Pilam  No, no a Bud Lite!
Spirit  Bowie and Co. have been hard at
work to prove that last years victory was not 
a dream. However, when they click their heels 
together, they might still be in Kansas.
AEPi No chance.
SAE  Good luck in booth!
Kappa Sig  With the speed that theyve 
been showing, they might Latch themselves 
into the Top 40.
Theta XiTheir buggies used to look nice, 
but so did their little sisters.
Editor's Note: CompuBookie is submitted 
anonymously each year to The Tartan. The 
opinions contained herein do not necessarily 
reflect those of The Tartan editorial board.
Comments on Alumni Division
1) Pika  Back when the house was 
good...
2) CIA  With a little magic, they may even 
beat their Mens A team.
3) Sigma Nu  Assuming they make the 
chute.
The Lineup:
CIA  The new buggy sure is Schlick, but 
just doesnt have that certain magic to grab a 
 trophy.
Fringe  Theyve shown a lot of effort; 
however, the blueprint for 10th place is still up 
for grabs.
KDR  The re-birth was last year, but can 
they do better? Remember, we all saw whatphoto by Andy GiUespie
A two-wheel DU buggy races through the chute.
#

---------------------------------------------------

Friday April 15 
2:00 pm 
on the cut 
with special guests 
Face to Face
AB Concerts presents
