If it feels like Stockholm this week on 
jjjfnpus, it wont be because of the cold. 
jBere will be a Convocation of Nobel 
Laureates tomorrow at the David Lawrence 
Invention Center. Over twenty Noble 
|ze winners are expected to attend this 
[nt being organized by CMU.
e five Laureates who are presenting 
?rs at the Convocation will also speak 
different topics on campus. The 
>belists that are scheduled to be here this 
ik are: Dr. Hans A. Bethe (physics), Saul 
How (literature), Dr. William Lipscompb 
jemistry), Dr. ITieodore W. Schultz 
lonomics) and Dr. Arthur Romberg 
led ici ne).
 Camegie-Mellon University is responsifor assembling the laueates and organizthe event that is being sponsored by 
?stinghouse and the Pittsburgh Clearing 
juse Association. CMU President Richard 
who is largely responsible for 
ambling the Laureates, will honor the 
lureates at the convocation luncheon in 
twrence Hall.
le last convocation of American Nobel 
Winners was at President Rennedys 
lite House in 1962.
^ecine moderates special panel discussion
In a related activity, John Crecine, Dean 
CMUs College of Humanities and Social 
[iences, will moderate a panel discussion 
several Nobel Laureates. This panel will 
Invene in the William Penn Hotel on Febiary 11 at 5 p.m. The program is titled
Science 8c Society: Shaping the 80s and 90s. 
Not for physics majors only
Dr. Hans A. Bethe received his Nobel 
Prize in 1967 for theories that nuclear pro
cesses are responsible for the generation of 
energy in the sun. He is described by CMU 
physics professor Leonard Risslinger as 
one of the greatest nuclear physicists.
Bethe will speak in Science Hall 
February' 11 at 4:30 p.m. on his new theory 
that a Supernova explosion led to the forma
tion of neutron stars. As with all of 
speeches in the Physics Colloquim, Bethes 
talk will be of interest to non-physics spe
cialists as well as physics majors.
Have lunch with a Laureate
Dr. Arthur Romberg, a Laureate of 1959 
and a professor of Biochemistry at Stanford, 
will present a seminar entitled Premosomes and Replicosemes in DNA Replica
tion at Mellon Institute on Wednesday, 
February 11 at 3 p.m. Romberg will join 
students and participants for an informal 
meeting and lunch in the auditorium on the 
Institutes second floor. Those wishing to 
attend both the Romberg speech and the 
Bethe lecture will have ample time to 
include both in their schedule.
Saul Bellow to talk in Wherrett Room
The Department of English will sponsor 
A conversation with Saul Bellow on 
Thursday, February 12 at 3 p.m. in the 
Wherrett Room. The literature prizewinner
continued on page 6
Andy West, the Dixie Dregs 
last Sunday night.
pholo by Robert Zusman 
to a packed house at the A B concert
Tork-study money to run out, CMU depts. to cover costs
be
by Janelle Molloy
Work-study money is projected to run out 
fore the end of this semester, according to 
alter Cathie, Director of Financial Aid. 
More than 800,000 dollars of work-studys
100,000 dollar annual budget has been 
nt to date.
Cathie hopes to relieve the problem by 
iving individual university employers pay 
ro of student wages. Last Friday, a memo 
is scheduled to be issued requesting that 
lividual university employers comply 
th this guideline and Cathie is optimistic 
a positive response. The plan is expected 
to take effect on February7 23. 
jUnder this new policy, Cathie hopes that 
H^rk-study monev will extend to the end of
the semester. Regardless of the future workstudy this semester, there will be no workstudy summer employment from May to 
June.
In the past, 20% of student wages were 
paid by individual university employers, 
while 80% was paid by federally granted 
work-study funds.
If the new program is implemented, 
work-study students should not be affected; 
however, work-study jobs are tenitively sche
duled to be shut off on April 19 if the new 
plan does not take effect. If this does occur, 
students will be offered supplemental loans 
to compensate for the loss of funds.
According to Cathie the shortage of funds 
is partly due to an unanticipated 19%
increase in the number of students accepting 
work-study jobs.
Cathie also feels that much of the blame 
for the shortage of funds lies with the federal 
government. Federal funding for the workstudy program has not increased in the past 
three years, while the minimum wage has 
been increased. Last year, work-study at 
CMU received a 223,000 dollar supplement 
from the government. No supplement is 
expected this year.
The Federal Government is also increas
ing funding for loan programs rather than 
putting the money into work-study and fed
eral grant programs.
In order to avoid this problem in the 
future, Cathie is considering implementing
Energy
New coordinator plans comprehensive program
pnoto Dy v. JiucK pnottDtyo 
Ie* Wisch, CMUs new energy coordihor.
by Bob HanOne of the new members of the campus 
community is Alec Jay Wisch, CMUs 
energy coordinator.
From his office in Porter Hall 19, Mr. 
Wisch is trying to improve the campus 
energy systems. He is primarily concerned 
with heating, ventilation and air condition
ing systems, lighting, and the windows in 
buildings.
The energy coordinator, a new position at 
the University, is responsible for imple
menting plans to reduce energy' consump
tion in the heating, cooling and lighting of 
campus buildings. In the past ten years the 
energy costs for the university have risen 
from about $500,000 to the over $3 million 
projected for this year  a six fold 
increase. Although the university has imple
mented energy conservation measures 
before, they have never done it on the 
scale now planned. Mr. Wisch will now be 
coordinating these conservation activities 
into a comprehensive campus-wide energy 
management program.
Plans under consideration and
continued on page 6
the 30%-70% ratio of the university to federal 
funding for work-study present in the new 
plan. If problems do occur next year, Cathie 
anticipates reducing work-study for gradu
ate students before reducing undergraduate 
funds.
Senate news: 
Seats filled
The Student Senate filled five vacant seats 
at its meeting on Tuesday night, February' 
3rd. A CIT undergraduate position, three 
CIT graduate seats and an H&SS undergrad
uate seat were filled.
Alexandra Ravoukalis, a freshman in 
CIT was appointed to the CIT undergradu
ate chair. Ravoukalis, who ran in last 
Novembers Senate elections, petitioned for 
the position along with Matt Corley, a jun
ior Chemical Engineering major.
After brief statements by the candidates, 
the Senate moved to "executive session, 
and the audience, including reporters, was 
cleared from the Wherrett Room during 
deliberations.
The audience was also removed during 
the discussions of the three CIT graduate 
petitioners. Matt Mathis, the President of 
the Graduate Student organization (GSO), 
John Snyder, and Lou Hafer, all three Elec
trical Engineering majors were appointed to 
fill the three open CIT seats.
Of all the candidates, Snvder mad the 
continued on page 4
The Newspaper of Carnegie-MeJlon University, Pittsburgh Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 16, February 10, 1981

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Introducing in this comer...the new Tartan newsmongers
It took Ronald Reagan 75 days to do what 
the Tartan did in seven. The present Editorial 
Board barely resembles the one chosen at the 
annual Tartan elections in December. Lasthour appointments and departures severely 
curtailed the preparation time that is tradition
ally allotted to an incoming administration.
The new Tartan board is not intent on 
initiating any drastic changes of policy and 
format. We are proud of the efforts of Sue Borg 
and the old Editorial Board and the progres 
that they made.
Although the new editors have not drawn 
up formal policy statements, we have all 
expressed intentions for the future of our 
divisions.
News
Campus coverage: The Tartan is striving 
toward complete investigative coverage of the
decisions and events that affect our daily lives. 
We feel that this is our most important 
responsibility.
Science: While the majority of CMU stu
dents are in scientific and technical fields, the 
majority of the Tartan staff are Humanities 
students. We intend to expand our science cov
erage through the recruitment of science wri
ters and increased attention to discoveries and 
advancements in technology and science.
Local: Last weeks Forbes Street Bridge arti
cle is an example of the coverage we will be 
providing for the local events that affect CMU 
students.
Features
People: Mr. and Mrs. Skibo are only the first 
of many familiar faces to be presented in the 
pages of the Tartan. The people that you see 
hut dont know, and the people that you hear
about but dont see will be our concern.
Public Service: Helping students to find 
information and aid on and off campus is an 
important intention of the new Features staff,
Entertainment
Feature Articles: Tartan readers should 
begin to see more than reviews and previews in 
the Entertainment section. The people behind 
the show, and the ideas within the show will be 
presented and discussed.
Campus Coverage: The talent and work of 
one of the country's great Fine Arts Schools 
will be given the attention that they deserve.
Sports
Feature Articles: The men and women who 
hustle and fight for Camegie-Mellon will 
become more than just the numbers on their 
backs to Tartan readers in the weeks to come.
The death of the Liberal-Will he be bom again?
First part of a series on the future of the 
Democratic Party and Liberalism in the U.S.
by Bill Kapner
The Republican landslide and sweeping 
defeat of Congressional liberal stalwarts in 
November may have been the rude awaken
ing that the Democrats and liberals in this 
country so desperately needed. Out of the 
ashes a new breed of liberalism is emerging. 
Dubbed by some as neo-liberalism the 
movement represents new approaches to the 
nations problems.
Paul Tsongas, the junior Senator from 
Massachusetts has emerged as the leading 
spokesman of this group. Tsongas speech 
delivered at last summers convention of the 
ADA, the countrys quintessential liberal
Guest column
organization, caused an uproar within the 
community of older, traditional Kenne
dy/McGovern liberals.
In this landmark address Tsongas stated, 
the Johnson-Humphrey Great Society 
approach is that government works, but I 
think government has a deadening impact. 
Tsongas went on to claim, traditional lib
erals are mired in yesterdays truisms. Lis
tening to them is like going to an old 
movie. Tsongas, who maintains a perfect 
pro-labor and conservation voting record in 
the Senate, believes that Liberalism must 
evolve to meet new challenges and begin 
talking in terms that mean something to 
todays youth who have grown up reading 
about abuses in the food stamp program, 
Americas sagging productivity and Soviet 
adventurism.
Tsongas cites the traditional liberal 
approach to the Energy Crisis  blaming 
the oil companies as one example of the 
severe need for change. He believes, attack
ing the oil companies is emotionally satisfy
ing but is not the answer to the problem. 
One solution is conservation, but under the 
banner rubric (heading) of consumers 
rights liberals led the fight against the 10- 
cent gas tax. Thats fine for today but in the 
long run to protect the consumer from the 
reality of the energy crisis is to destroy him.
Tsongas has written a book, due out 
shortly, in which he addresses five problem 
areas, including energy, and suggests ways 
in which liberals can tackle these problems 
without compromising their inherent prin
ciples. It will be a book worth reading.
Traditional liberalism, which reached its 
zenith during the mid-sixties and is now 
embodied by Ted Kennedy, is essentially 
worthless in meeting todays problems. At a 
recent ADA gathering in New York Gty, 
Morning Morable, a Black Political Scient
ist stated, Liberalism has been at a dead end 
for years. We must stop defending those pro
grams we know will not work. Indeed, we 
are no longer an affluent nation. We can no 
longer afford to throw money at problems. 
The private sector must also be employed to 
combat the nations ills. Liberals must 
accept and adapt to these realities. If not," 
Tsongas warns, liberalism will be reduced 
to an interesting dissertation topic for 
historians.
Bill Kapner is a senior majoring in history 
and is a political columnist for The Tartan.
The Ugly Central AmericanHas he arrived at CMU?
by Neil A. Ward
To the voices of three Salvadorian stu
dents urging more U.S. complicity in El 
Salvadors counter-revolution, last weeks
Tartan adds that of a Costa Rican, Dave 
Treleaven, who adds some recommenda
tions, interpretations and allagations of his 
own. The Tartan calls Treleavens state
ment a response, but as anyone who read 
it can see, hes just rolling the same logs. 
Will The Tartan find a Latin American 
student willing to make a pro-insurgent 
statement? Probably not. U.S. visas can slip 
away at the most convenient times.
One difficulty in replying to incohesive 
arguments couched in jargon is the diffi
culty in not sinking to their level. It is a 
mitigating consideration that one who is 
not writing in his native language will not 
recognize phrases such as random bursts of 
violence, drag down the economy and 
that cold war classic a few handfuls of pro
fessional instigators, receiving their financ
ing from communist sources as the 
perfunctory paranoia we have taken for 
granted for thirty years. The best debunk
ing, especially in this small space, is simple 
quotation.
But Treleavan also offers a remarkable 
paragraph about Marxist activists disguis
ing themselves as students and infiltrating 
the University of Costa Rica, which reminds 
me of one of the Salvadorians charging that 
his Jesuit parochial school masters forced 
him to read Marx at knife-point. The con
cept that society is being rotted out by bad
ideas smuggled into the cultural conscious
ness by means of the schools has resonance 
in the U.S., too, and the John Birch Society 
played that card from sex-education to freemilk during its time in the spotlight. Over 
the years, however, all that has come to light 
about schooling as an institution is that, 
insofar as it shapes anyones mind, it shapes 
it to fall into place behind established classvalues in the society, as the CMU kids who 
will take jobs with Westinghouse and U.S. 
Steel next year will not be able to deny.
But in Costa Rica Marxists have unfairly 
circumvented a prevailing doctrine and 
threatened Treleaven with ideas. Obviously, 
if (and I have only Treleavens word for it) 
Marxists are infiltrating the schools dis
guised as students, it is only because the 
Costa Rican ruling class has denied them 
teaching positions. Anyone who sees any
thing inapproriate about such an honest 
and explicit response to ideological oppres
sion has a silly preception of what the free 
commerce of ideas should be. And when 
Treleaven calls the Marxist infiltrators a 
vociferous and militant minority (not so 
minor), he suggests the presence, not of 
outside agitators, but of a legitimate social 
class. How about fewer allegations about 
ideas by outsiders and agitation by out
side soldiers erf fortune and more serious 
attention to Marxist programs?
I do not know that much even of what is 
published in English about Latin America, 
but Treleaven gives much of the game away 
when he refers to our (Costa Ricas) large 
trade deficit and a cash crop of bananas. I 
cant contradict him when he says a large
(how large?) segment of the population are 
small landowners, but his moaning about 
the banana crop suggests plantations, the 
United Fruit Company and financial colon
ialism by the U.S. and elsewhere. Possibly 
the civil unrest in Costa Rica and the 
audience Marxists are getting there reflect a 
more real, popular discontent than Tre
leaven, or any emigre student of his social 
class, could be expected to acknowledge.
Finallyin answer not only to Treleaven 
but also to the three Salvadorians who 
appeared in this paper two weeks agowhy 
are Marxist insurgents in El Salvador dissat
isfied with the liberal land reform program? 
Not only because the propertied class has 
eviserated the proposal but also because lib
eral reform, as the U.S. consultants inevita
bly plan it, has a package of economic 
implication with the U.S. attached to it. It 
seems to me that the insurgants decision to 
reject a pitifully marginal liberation from 
fourteen mafiosi at the expense of allowing# 
their country to become a U.S. satellite 
shows a very sensitive perception of priori
ties. And Although Soviet domination may 
be another risk to El Salvadors autonomy, 
the risk is well-calculated and has paid off 
well, in terms of quality of life, in Cuba.
Apologies to any of your friends who have 
been tortured and blown-up, but war is hell. 
Assigning guilt and complicity for this kind 
of war is very difficult, for the patterns that 
generated it go back at least four centuries, 
but your host country, the U.S., is far from 
benevolently disinterested in this case. Any 
appeal for arms and supervision from us is 
an appeal to raise the stakes for another
hand of domination by a foreign capital 
U.S. aid is ugly as an objective fact, and 
this kind of appeal coming from Latin 
American students whose national interest 
appears to be overridden by class-interest is 
particularly ugly.
Neil A. Ward is a departmental secretary in 
civil engineering.
"linii
Editor-in-Chief.......................Richard Gorelik
Associate Editor.................................Bob l^eight^
Managing Editor .......................Robert Zusrrafll
Business Manager.........................Linda Hetfld.
Asst. Business Manager........Pam Shugarmafl
News Editor................................Jennifer Hut#*!
Features Editor..................... Maureen Brennatj
Asst. Features Editor.............Kathy Krumntf1
Entertainment Editor....................Adam Laual
Sports Editor..................................Gregg Bossb
Dossier Editor................................Lynn Ei>cl
Photography Editors ... ........Chuck ChideM
Doug El^j
Contributing Editors......................... Jim Bals
Sue 
Doug Kir
Production Manager .... ............Vince Guif^
Production Staff...................................Bob Hs>|
Mark Shell*
Copyright  1981 by The Tartan. I1kEditorial 
reserves tlxright to withhold from publication  
>|>\ it deems unfit for |xibli<ation. Editorial 
Skilx> 'jO, (112) 578-2111. Business Oifices: Skilx3' 
(112) >78-211|. 21 bout phonr, (112) 578-21 IS. Nt*11] 
atldiess: Box 17, Sehfiiley Paik, Pittsburgh PA ^ 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1981The TartanPage 3
letters
The Postman never rings
Tork-s is tu DANCrER OF 
RADIATION FROM THE CR.T 
TERMINALS OR THE MERCURY LEAKS.
Editor:
Some recent letters to the Tartan have 
pointed out problems with the mail service 
in Morewood and Mudge House. I am glad 
that these problems are finally coming to the 
attention of the campus community. I have 
lived in Mudge House for three semesters 
and have had frequent problems with the 
mail service. Here are the details:
I subscribe to two monthly magazines and 
one biweekly newspaper, and have never 
had any trouble receiving themuntil I 
moved into Mudge House. During the 
second semester of last year, I received only 
out of five issues of one of the maga
zines, only three out of five issues of the 
other, and only two out of ten issues of the 
newspaper. The magazines were sent to 
meI checked with the publishers. I cannot 
help but conclude, along with some other 
students, that someone has been tampering 
with the mail on this side of campus. I was 
finally forced to reroute as much of my mail 
possible to my address at the math
phone bill (but by some miracle, my phone 
service wasnt cut off).
Others in Mudge House have also had 
problems with the mail service. In Sep
tember, three of us visited the Housing 
Office to air our grievances. We were 
referred, and probably righdy so, to the 
source of the problemthe man who stuffs 
the Mudge mailboxes. He claimed to be 
unaware of any problems. I have com
plained to him a few other times, and he has 
always claimed to be unaware of any prob
lems. I say claimed because I dont think I 
believe him. I strongly urge Mr. Dalton (or 
whoever is in charge) to hire someone else 
for that job. I think the man who works in 
the Mudge mailroom is unreliable and/or 
dishonest. He is probably the source of the is 
mail delivery problems on this side of the 
campus.
Doug Ward
las
department.A Mech. E takes offense at Dossier views
During August (when admittedly the cam>us population is sparse, and mail service 
probably doesnt need to be too extensive), 
the man who stuffs the mailboxes in Mudge 
House broke his leg, and no mail was deli
vered for about two weeks. At the beginning 
of September, I finally received letters 
mailed to me a month before. Thats a bit 
extreme, I think. I also received no July
Letter Policy
A letter intended for publication must be 
Ksigned and include the writers address and 
Iphone number for verification. Names will 
\be withheld upon request.. The Tartan 
I reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
Editor:
This letter is written in response to Lynn 
Epsteins article in Dossier. (Feb. 3) To 
Lynn:
You are a whiner and a crybaby. You say 
that devices such as banking machines and 
computers frustrate you. So you take the 
easy way out by laying the blame on too 
much technology.
Would you be happier if you had to walk 
all the way to a regular bank and/or work 
your assignments out on paper? If so, then 
for Christs sake do it. The fact is, no one 
forced you to use either device. Your frustra
tion stems from your own decision to 
improve your drab, miserable life by avail
ing yourself of these conveniences.
I myself was nearly killed the other day 
when I tripped over some faulty technology'
ive the man a chance
iitor.
I must object to your (Bob Leightys) arti:le in the January 27 issue of the Tartan. 
7irst of all, the title was a misnomer; you 
iidnt really discuss What Reagans opin
ions really mean at allyou really com
pared Reagan to Carter and depicted 
[Reagan, albiet subtly, as a man who will be 
just as incompetent.
You mentioned an inflationary KempiRoth bill, insinuated military conflict with 
the Soviet Union, suggested Human Rights 
would be neglected, hinted at waste and faillure in National Defense, bemoaned the 
unlikely loss of the Education and Energy 
[departments, and protested possible solu
tions to the Welfare and social security 
programs.
Perhaps, now that Reagan is president, 
people have forgotten why he was elected. 
| He was elected because he promised to stem
I the growth of taxes, increase national 
defense, cut dead weight out of the bureauIcracy and stimulate the economy.
Liberalism is what caused the high taxes 
rnd the economic recession in the first place, 
|>iid it went on too long. It is now firmly 
Wanted in government, and its effects are 
spreading like a cancer. Too many people 
Npect something for nothing. No one gets a 
|ftee ride.
Because people are used to government 
landouts, they are going to complain when 
they are taken away from them. But Presi
dent Reagan will not take away our human
rights, not for any reason. He will not allow 
the air to become unbreathable in the inter
est of Big Business. He does not want war 
with the Soviet Union. He only wants to 
increase domestic prosperity while decreas
ing the tax burden by deregulation of indus
try and cutting unnecessary programs of all 
types.
All I ask of you is that you give the man a 
chance to do as he promised before you critisize (sic) him.
Stephen R. Maitland
which passes for the stairway to Scobell 
Hall. Concrete is technology. So are stair
ways. The . same technological tragedy 
might have befallen me a thousand years 
ago.
If a particular painting offended you, you 
would not condemn all paintings and write 
an angry letter to the Tartan, complaining 
about being alienated by painters. Whythen, when frustrated by some particular 
instances of technology do you condemn 
technology and engineers? Why, when 
CMUs administration has temporarily 
inconvenienced your owti department (by 
lending some of that departments space to 
the Robotics Institiute) do you conclude 
that the entire engineering community is 
out to get you? You sound like a child whose 
parenst have just brought home a new baby: 
CMU doesnt love you anymore.
Perhaps your hostility towards engineers 
stems from the fact that we (engineers) strive, 
each in our own field, to change and better 
our environments, to control our fates, 
while your skills tend to be used more pas
sively, for entertainment, etc. In this respect 
we may earn a sense of fulfillment and sub
sequent peace of mind that you seem to be 
lacking.
Or perhaps youre simply lashing out 
childishly at those who create the technol
ogywhich you have failed to master. What 
is required in such a situation is not less 
technology, but more. The banking 
machine should be improved so that it no 
longer breaks down, and the computer sys
tem could be improved so that its easier for 
novices to use it w ithout running around in 
circles.
In any case, it is, your ow n neuroses that 
breed this hostility. You must try to over
come them. Perhaps if you repeated over 
and over to yourself Humanities and Arts 
are not useless...Humanities and Arts are 
not useless...
Next on your hate list are big business 
and the government. Supposedly these insti
tutions are ruining our lives by beating us 
about the head and neck with technology we 
dont want. In your article, these claims were 
followed by a desperate attempt to pin all 
our troubles on that familiar scapegoat, 
profit. A knee-jerk response. I can see you 
now, at the banking machine, cursing John
D. Rockefeller, Ronald Reagan, the 
National Rifle Association and Exxon for 
maliciously tricking you into putting your 
money into a faulty banking machine. 
Come to think of it, Richard Nixon proba
bly has a hand in this too...
If Big Business (or anything else) forces 
some dangerous or deadly technology on 
you, you certainly have the right to com
plain and to try to halt this activity. But if 
youre just going to whine about the exist
ence of devices that you want and need your
self, then you are merely being foolish.
Sincerely, 
Michael Fox 
M.E. *81
Condemnation of Architecture vandalism
Editor:
It upsets me greatly that the campus gen
eral regard for the entire Department of 
Architecture could be jeopardized by a few 
vandalistic dissenters within the depart
ment. These recusants have chosen to air 
their views through malicious and highly 
visible graffiti and propoganda posters
I would like to make clear that a vast 
majority of my fellow department members 
are opposed to these deplorable tactics. 
Recently, the following statement was sub
mitted to Lou Sauer, Head of the Depart
ment of Architecture:
Mr. Sauer,
We, the undersigned Level 11 Architecture 
students, condemn the recent irresponsible 
behavior of a few members of the 
Architecture Department.
While the opinions of this group may 
certainly be valid, their means of expression 
cannot be condoned. We feel that acts of 
vandalism and personal slander are 
ineffective and unnecessary forms of protest, 
and we will not support these or future 
malicious acts.
We hope that the destructive and 
unlawful activities of these protesters will 
not reflect upon those of us who chose to 
voice our opinions in a reasonable and 
acceptable manner.
.%
This statement wras endoresed by 42 of the
51 students currently enrolled in I^evel II.
I hope that those who were involved will 
discontinue their vicious public displays as 
they are cowardly and inappropriate, and 
certainly will not help to eradicate differen
ces within the department.
Debbie Buffalin 
Level II Chairman, 
Architecture Student Organization
Ha Ha Ha Ha
Editor:
To Ms. Martha Nichols:
You cant hide the fact that you dont have 
a sense of humor behind your elegant vocab
ulary.
Sincerely, David Dzombak 
Dept, of Civil Engineering
more letters on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 10, 1981
Senate vacancies filled; archery club recognized
continued from page 1
strongest comments before the Senate. He 
accused the Senate of being a bureaucracy: 
Senate has ceased to be a servant of the 
student body, claimed Snyder, and has 
become a servant of itself.
The deliberations for these three candi
dates took more than twenty minutes, indicating that the Senate did not simply rubber 
stamp its approval of the applicants. There 
was some speculation that Mathis appoint
ment might have constituted a conflict of 
interest with his GSO post. However, var
ious senators voiced the opinion that Mathis 
has been, in past occasions, objective and 
fair in his dealings with Senate.
Three candidates applied for the H&SS 
undergraduate vacancy creating a tense twoway contest between Ralph Sherman and 
John Rappo for the appointment. After a 
preliminary vote, in which freshman John 
Sweeney was eliminated from considera
tion, the senators divided themselves 
between Sherman and Rappo and failed to
More letters
Another view of the Bnai Brith tree sale
owtior
I would like to respond to Mr. Daniel N. 
Rosenblum s letter which appeared January 
27,1981, Tartan (Plant Propaganda). I
job well done
Editor
Congratulations and a sincere thank you 
are in order for the Student Alumni Rela
tions Council and Alumni Office for spon
soring a most successful Senior Banquet 
Everything from the wine and cheese to the 
dinner and then finally the dance, was 
superb. It was an evening Ill always 
remember.
Thanks again for a job well done.
Sincerely 
Roger Jaussi
would like to respond to the issues involved 
in the article rather than some of the specif
ics of the propriety of the kind of map that 
was displayed of Israel on that particular 
occasion.
The geographic-political specific aspects 
of Israels boundaries are the problems of the 
democratically elected officials erf the State 
of Israel in concert and in dialogue with her 
neighbors in the Middle East.
However, a deeper issue is the nature of 
Judaism itself which inevitably permeates 
many aspects erf our Bnai Brith programs 
which tries to be responsible and authentic 
in its interpretation of Judaic ideals.
It is almost impossible to separate Juda
ism into nationality and religion; the two 
are interwoven. Most of the theological 
teachings and religious commandments of 
Judaism are embedded or imply a reference 
to the concept of Israel the people, which
CLUBE DE
Ski Club Information
On Saturday, February 21 the CMU Ski Club will be 
having its first ski trip of the 1981 winter season. Tickets are 
available at the Skibo Information Desk for $28. We will be 
going to Snowwhoe Mountain, West Virginia on Saturday 
morning, leaving from Skibo parking lot at 6:45 a.m. and 
returning at 7:45 p.m. When you pay for your dcket, be sure to 
fill out the dcket information sheet, so that if you lose your 
dcket we can verify that you have paid.
Snowshoe Mountain is one of the finest ski areas within 
driving distance of Pittsburgh. It is 4,000 feet high and has a 
vertial drop of 1,700 feet. There are 13 trails open, served by 5 
triple chairlifts. There are runs ranging in length between 7,500 
feet and 800 feet, for skiers of all levels of experience. Ski rentals 
are available at the hill for $10 for those who do not have skis 
with them.
If you have any quesdons please contact Mark Wendman 
at 421-8764 or Mike Schmitz at 578-4323.
Funded by your activities fee
includes nation, state, land and soil. As one 
of our great teachers, Professor Mordechai 
Kaplan suggested, Judaism is an evolving 
religious civilization and this implies that 
religion, ethics, nationality, culture, celebra
tion of holidays are often both nationalistic 
and religious observances. This is peculiar 
to the nature erf the Jewish faith and tradi
tion. Taking Judaism on its own terms, 
Zionism is a religious commandment and 
obligation to a Jew. Planting of trees is more 
than an aesthetic act or an ecological act, 
however important these considerations 
may be. It is also a religio-national expe
rience in the reclamation both of the Land 
and the redemption erf people in its Land.
Many thanks. 
Cordially, 
Rabbi Joseph H. Levine
reach a two thirds majority vote for over half 
an hour.
The voting lines seemed to form between 
old senators, who had worked with Sher
man and new senators who were more 
impressed with Rappos assertiveness.
The senators that supported Sherman, 
who spent the last semester in Washington 
heralded his past devotion to Senate and 
claimed that his experience would be inval
uable to a senate that was troubled by a 
heavy representation of inexperienced new 
senators. Chairman Nina Houska told the 
senate that Sherman was the Best chairman 
that (she) had ever seen on Senate.
Supporters of Rappo spoke of the candi
dates assertiveness and referred to him asa 
go-getter, apparently impressed by the 
candidates energetic rousing speech to 
Senate.
At one point, Rules Committee Chair
men Bob Holste told some Rappo suppor
ters that they' were calling fellow senators 
liars if (they) didnt believe that Ralph Sher
man was a good senator in the past.
In other Senate business, the archery club 
was officially recognized as a Senate sup
ported organization. Only GSIA rep Bob 
Carr voted against recognition, explaining 
later that Senate was not being attentive 
enough to long-term goal setting. Carr 
believes that Senate should preferably 
initiate organizations that focus on social 
services instead of blanketly recognizing 
small sports clubs.
The Student Senate meets every Tuesday I 
evening at 6:30 p.m. in the WTherrett Room.
to c^'cU'^oos
' **' d* * at'd daSs<^ fte\
* S8eOa" nCS'0,'(t^'S
iS** ,6-4.30
fetori" *32S' sc'e
CALL 571-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1981The TartanPage 5
On campus: 
Fri. Feb. 20th
Student Senate calls for spring election petitions
Petitions are available for the Student 
Senate Spring elections. The president of 
Student Senate is elected in this voting ses
sion. Anyone interested in petitioning to 
run for the position of Student Senate presi
dent, currently held by John Alexander, 
must pick up a petition at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk. Petitions are available begin
ning tomorrow, February 11 and must be 
completed by February 25.
There are also a large percentage of Senate
seats opening up. Seven CIT seats, of which
two are for half-terms, two MCS seats, three 
H&SS seats, of which one is for a half-term, 
four CFA seats, of which one is for a halfterm and one AMS seat will be available.
Petitions for these positions are available 
at the Skibo Information desk beginning 
tomorrow.
The following is a list of the proposed 
budgets for various organizations sponsored
by the Student Activities Fee. The Activities
Fee, currently $50 per year, is automatically 
billed to each full time student.
Organization
Activities Board 
Astronomy Club 
Baseball Club 
Carnegie Tech Radio Club 
Computer Club
Proposed
Budget
$105,160
797
2,670
1,585
1,369
eauxLe Bai Fantase is coming
Tickets for the Beaux Arts Ball (Le Bal 
Fantasie) are on sale now in the Drama 
Department Box office next to the Kresge 
heatre. Box Office hours are Monday 
through Friday, 10 a.m. to 1 p.m. and 2 p.m. 
to 4 p.m.
Tickets for the Ball are available only to 
tudents of the College erf Fine Arts. Each 
FA student is allowed two tickets, each at 
he price of $15 each. Fine Arts faculty, staff 
nd alumni are allowed four tickets each at 
he price of $20 per ticket. The last day of
ticket sales will be February 20.
The date of Le Bal Fantasie is February 28 
from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. What is there to do for 
eight hours in the middle of the night? 
Besides discovering all of your friends secret 
fantasies and dancing all night long to rock, 
New Wave and disco music, there will be a 
wide variety of local entertainment.
The major bands include Jack Purcell 
and His Band, Norman Vardini and the 
Tigers and the return of the Rave-Ups. 
Other acts include Gene Corbin, a Circus
Side Show, Maxine Lapiduss, and accord
ing to, co-chairman Jamie Bumett, much, 
much more.
Special events will include a champagne 
breakfast and the judgiong of costumes by 
Deans Swank and Lloyd, Dean Midani and 
other distinguished guests of the ball.
The chairmen of the Le Bal Fantasie are 
Jamie Bumett and Leslie Nieman. The 
Beaux Arts Ball Committee has been work
ing for months in preparation for the newest 
edition of a grand old Carnegie tradition.
Explorer Club 
Forbes Street Gallery 
Hockey Club 
Karate Club 
Law Club 
Rent-A-Tech 
SARC 
Spirit
Spring Carnival 
Student Gov. Corp. 
Tartan
Ultimate Ffisbee Club 
WRCT
770
5,285
8,751
337
350
750
1,820
8,700
3,600
1,650
13,456
375
7,020
Each year at this time the Senate begins 
the procedure of budget review and alloca
tion. This process begins in the Senate 
Finance committee, chaired by Rich 
Hanusek of CFA.
The Finance committee is holding an 
open hearing on Wednesday, February 11 at
8:30 p.m. in Skibo, room 12. Any full time 
student is allowed to attend this meeting and
express his opinion. For information about 
the hearing or the budget procedure contact 
Hanusek at 422-8707.
Graduates:Seeing S Believing.
The future isn't so far away...
At Lawrence Livermore 
National Laboratory, 
we can see the future.
Not through crystal 
balls, but through the 
programs we are 
working on every day. v
We continue to be the 
innovators in areas of laser 
and magnetic fusion, in 
defense, physics, bio
medical and environmental 
research. Much of our 
work is devoted to the 
development of pollutionfree energy.
Theres a certain excite
ment at LLNL that comes 
from the revolutionary 
n-roads which are being 
developed as a result of 
our R&D ingenuity.
As for our technology, 
it goes beyond state-ofthe-art. we house one of 
the largest computer 
complexes in the world, 
and our research facilities 
ar unparalleled.
Above all, you'll find the 
experience to be gained 
at I will prove 
invaluable in tomorrow s 
world of technology.
Its happening at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory...
We re looking for people with creative 
minds, people who can take the initiative, 
who can assume responsibility on 
several projects, and who dont want to 
perform the same job year after year, 
we encourage our people to expand and 
explore their own interests. You can 
literally shape your own career! Our work 
environment is informal, enjoyable, and 
most conducive to exceptional advances 
and progress.
if youre graduating with a basic or 
advanced degree in the physical 
sciences, engineering, math or a 
computational discipline, we 
would like to meet with you. Our 
representatives will be on campus.
Ask your Placement Office for details, 
or contact us for more information by 
forwarding your resume to: 
Employment Division, LAWRENCE 
LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY,
P.O. BOX 808, Dept. JCR, 
Livermore, CA 94550.
U.S. Citizenship Required.
An qual Opportunity 
Employer, v.J.i.uc
...where innovation is based on your creativity.
University of California
l|[B Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanFebruary 10, 1981
CED^R POINT
Also at Cedar Point Jan. 31 & Feb. 14
TECHNICIANS
Please send resumes by Feb. 1
For other audition 
sites and further information contact:LIVE SHOWS
Cedar Point, Sandusky, OH 44870 (419) 626-0830
At Great "X" we're looking ahead with something that will keep you coming back again and again.
Hair cutters that listen.
HAIRCUTS COLORING PERM A Mt NTS
(Wash-Cut-Mow)
1 9 00 197 A tweed Street 0^00
Aw He tn>t fciPoet Office 
M74H0
CMUTRAVTECT 10-7 
THwn. vrl. 104
Sat. 9-6 UNISCX HANK SALON No Appointments
Mall named Assistant Prof; 
Dept, duties expanded
by Alice Alfonsi
Raymond (Bud) Mall has accepted a three 
year faculty appointment as Assistant Pro
fessor in the department of Architecture. 
The new position includes administrative 
responsibilities in the departmental wood 
shop.
Previously, Professor Mall held the posi
tion of Shop Director, which is a staff
Laureates
continued from page 1
will participate in an informal question and 
answer session.
The Canadian-bom novelist has also won 
a Pulitzer Prize for Humboldts Gift, in 
1975. Bellows Nobel Prize came in 1976, 
and he is the last American to receive the 
prestigious literature award. Other novels of 
Bellow, who is a professor of English at the 
Univeristy of Chicago, include Herzog, Mr. 
Samlers Planet and Augi March, all 
winners of the National Book Award.
Dr. William Lipscomb, who recieved the 
Nobel Prize in 1976 for his work as an x-ray 
crystalographer, will speak in Science Hall 
7500 on Friday, February 13 at 3:30 p.m. 
Lipscomb will speak on the topic How do 
Enzymes Work?
When the Tartan went to press there were 
no finalized plans for the speech of Dr. 
Theodore W. Schultz. Schultz won the 
Nobel prize for economics in 1979. For 
information concerning his speech, call the 
Economics office at 578-2302.
appointment, Mall requested a faculty 
appointment in September of 1980. An ad 
hoc committee reviewed his seven years at 
CMU and recommended that Mall be pro
moted to Assistant Professor.
Controversy arose concerning the com
mittees recommendation and Mall was 
offered Adjunct Assistant Professorship 
instead. Mall declined this offer because he 
felt it failed to satisfy his professional career 
objectives. In addition, Mall declined to 
teach the courses he had been teaching in the 
shop.
Some students voiced their support of 
Mall via petition. As a result of this petition 
and support voiced by the Architecture 
faculty, Mall was offered and accepted his 
present appointment.
Mall has taken up his teaching duties in 
the drawing and perception sequence, and 
the freshman design program. He will con
tinue to offer his course in independent shop 
studies.
photo by Chuck Chidekei
To promote the Beaux Arts Ball, David Ross, freshman architect, and Ken Miller, a sopho
more design major, created this field of linear circumstances.
Alex Wisch: Energy Conservation's new name
continued from page 1
some of those already in operation
are:
 putting new windows in Morewood 
Gardens.
 converdng from gas and steam to hot 
water heating; this requires using steam to 
heat the water to a temperature dependent 
upon the outside temperature and the time 
of day  buildings will be kept cooler at 
night and warmed up in the morning.
 using microcomputers to control
the environment; this was started last 
week in Science Hall and will be expanded 
building by building, placing each on a 
seperate system.
 developing a lighting standard to 
reduce over and under lighting 
erf areas (e.g. hallways needed less light than 
lecture halls and studios).
 installing a steam metering system to 
monitor steam usage in different
buildings.
 a publicity campaign aimed at students
and faculty to reduce energy consumption. i 
Mr. Wisch has no major plans, but I 
instead lots of litde ones to make build| 
ings more comfortable and efficient. PresJ 
ently he is trying to define the needs and 
problems of the buildings on campus. He 
would like students and faculty to help in 
this campaign by reporting situations (such 
as a room being too hot or told) to him at
x2914. The major point, he says, is that the 
university has made a committment and is 
doing things.
MUSICIANS 
PERFORMERSRegistration 12:30-3:30 Auditions begin at 1:00
Morgantown, WV Wed., Feb. 11 
WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
Creative Arts Center - Concert Theatre 
Pittsburgh, PA Thurs., Feb. 12 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
Skibo Student Union - Rms. 11 & 12 
Akron, OH Fri., Feb. 13 
UNIVERSITY OF AKRON 
E. J. Thomas Performing Arts Hall 
Oberlin, OH Tues., Feb. 17 
OBERLIN COLLEGE 
Wilder Hall - Main Lounge

---------------------------------------------------

megie, 1906
(We have made a great start! Where it is all to end we cannot predict.
by Karen Stevens
It took five years, but finally on October 
6, 1905 Carnegie-Technical School held its 
rst day of classes. The night school opened 
month later on November 14, 1905, foliwed by the opening of the Margaret Morson Carnegie School for Women on 
.Jlarch 5, 1906.
I The long struggle to achieve these goals 
Tegan when the Central Board of Educaon, in the year 1900, asked the city of PittslUrg for an appropriation for a technical 
rhool. Andrew Carnegie decided that PittsSurg (spelled as such at this time)
Biis addition. At a banquet given by W.N. 
rew, Carnegie announced he would prode the money for building and endowing a 
Hchnical school if the city would furnish a |I In a letter he wrote to the Thistle several 
ears later, Carnegie explained his 
enerosity:
larch 30, 1906.
)ear Mr. Editor.
You ask me io give the readers of The 
"histle some account of the inception of 
flnd my reasons for deciding to give to Pittsmurgh the Technical Schools.
First, then, please let note that Pittsburgh 
\as the home of my boyhood, and it was 
lere that Fortune showered its favors upon 
te in early manhood. One earnestly wishes 
benefit his early home and its people if 
::m>er it be in his power. After I had decided 
mat public libraries maintained by the peo
ple, a hall for music, a fine art gallery, and a 
mnuseum would all tend to educate and elemflte our citizens and bring into their lives 
mew elements of happiness, and had estab
lished these, I found myself casting about to 
nnd the next want that Pittsburgh most 
needed. I was often brought into contact 
Iwith men in Britain and at home earnestly 
^voted to benefiting their respective cities, 
Oaid in New York I became a Trustree of 
Cooper Union and of the Mechanics and 
^tradesmens Society. I very soon decided 
that there was nothing in the line of educajjon which the youth of Pittsburgh so much 
Weeded as first-class Technical Schools. I 
mfered to spend a million dollars on such 
$hool buildings and to give two million
Mrs. Arthur Hamerschlag turning the first sod for the Carnegie Technical School.
dollars endowment fund to furnish one 
hundred thousand dollars per year required 
to pay the cost of operating them, provided 
the city furnished a site, which it did. Since 
then half a million dollars additional has 
been given for necessary extension and 
addition.
No scholars ever made a more promising 
start. None was ever besieged, I think, by so 
many more students than could be taken. 
Mr. Hamerschlag has proved the right man 
in the right place, and his earnest assistants 
no less so. As for the eight hundred 
studentstheir behavior, assiduity and anx
iety to learn, I am informed, was never sur
passed. We have made a great start! Where it 
is all to end, we cannot predict; but I for one 
believe that Pittsburgh is to rank in the 
world as one of the chief centers of technical 
education. The Founder is very proud of his 
latest gift and the people to whom he still 
remains a grateful debtor.
ANDREW CARNEGIE
History awareness promoted
The Board of Trustees of the Carnegie 
Institute formally announced Carnegies 
intentions on November 11, 1900 and 
assigned a five-member committee to study 
the formation of technical schools.
After three years, the committee com
pleted its research and presented a plan that 
was used for the schools formation. The 
ball really began rolling when a 32-acre plot 
adjoining Schenley Park was chosen as the 
site for Tech.
The next major step came with the 
unanimous selection of Arthur A. 
Hamerschlag as the schools first director. 
Hamerschlag was on hand when the grad
ing of the site began on February 23, 1904.
Sixty-nine designers competed to deter
mine the design of the first building. Palmer 
and Hombostel of New York won the 
honors and with a bid of $500,000 from the 
Wells Brothers, the construction began.
The buildings constructed are what we 
now call Porter and Baker Halls. Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie School for Women was 
simply the original structure and the 
rotunda.
Mrs. Hamerschlag raised the first shovel
ful of earth on April 3, 1905. Classes began 
six months and 13 days later.
Of the 1,723 students that applied for 
admission, only 604 were examined for 
placement. The professors of these first stu
dents were from such distinguished univer
sities as Columbia, Tech College of 
Stockholm, Princeton, Wittenberg, and 
Harvard.
This charter class, which would graduate 
in 1908, began traditions they never 
imagined would be part of 1981 culture. 
First-year activities included the election of 
class officers, the establishment of the This
tle and Tartan, and the formation of a con
cert orchestra. Hockey was the most popular 
sport in 1906; others included football, bas
ketball, and baseball. There were also field 
trips to manufacturing firms for practical 
on-the-job exposure. Banquets, with menus 
including entrees such as filet mignon, were 
a regular event.
Thus, a new cultural history was bom in 
Pittsburgh. Director Hamerschlag 
addressed the first CMU students with these 
words:
by Vernon Valentine
| Vernon Valentine is a junior professional 
mating major involved with Spirit Organi
sation at CMU. Concerned with a certain
O
>el of political awareness, Mr. Valentine
ggests self-education through the study
history as a key to social progress.
Hj . 
I Everyone knows what February is all 
H^iit, right? There are a couple of Presi-i
nts birthdays, Groundhog Day, and 
loved Valentines Day. But how many 
ople are apt to link this month with the 
Bstory of Black America?
I February has indeed been proclaimed (by 
Ile forsaken Carter Administration) to be
 lack History Month, the official period
 hen our nation pays heed to the historical 
B>ntributions Blacks have made since their 
Bnpressment aboard the U.S.A some 400 
B'ars ago. The real tragedy is not that our 
B>ciety has taken so long to officially recI ?nize the innumerable donations of Black
 merica, but that now many ignore the 
i mportunity to explore its rich heritage.
I I o ignore the history of Black America 
I any other component of the romanticized
 melting pot would be, in truth, the 
B reat American Lie. What necessarily folB>ws from ignorance is hardly ever positive,
and the why should I care about Black 
History? syndrome is a case in point. 
Because of this wide spread mentality, there 
is often a widening of cultures which could 
prove tragically detrimental. Those who 
broadly question the role which history 
plays in a societys future need only take up 
their case with the historian, who will pro
vide more than ample argument.
Of personal advantage to the individual 
who initiates self-education is an increased 
knowledge of things most people should 
already be aware of. For example, how 
many people realize that one of the first 
pioneers of open-heart surgery was a black 
man? There are a host of Black scientists, 
artists, educators brilliant persons from 
all walks of lifewho have been tradition
ally ignored by American history texts. 
While this is changing, the change remains 
painfully slow.
In an effort to promote a heightened 
awareness of Black History at CMU, Spirit 
Organization is sponsoring a series of events 
and exhibits centering on Black History in 
America. Included are a film series on the 
dynamic political leader, Malcom X, on 
February 15th; an exhibit of black art at 
Forbes Street Gallery from Feb 17th-22nd; a 
continued on page JO
TO THE STUDENTS OF THE CARNEGIE TECHNICAL SCHOOLS:
It makes a man feel almost as bashful as a 
child to have the students of a school ask 
him to write a line or two as a message to 
them, when he feels that he is so intimately 
one of them himself. This hesitation is bom 
of a deeply embedded conviction that eve
ryone who has been engaged in the develop
ment of these Schools is an integral part of 
them. I feel toward the students and the 
members of the faculty as though they were 
my brothers and sisters.
When I look back over the short school 
year which is now nearing an end, it is hard 
to believe that but a dozen months ago we 
were nearly all strangers. It is equally diffi
cult to express the deep sense of personal 
friendship which it has been possible to 
establish between us all in so short a period.
If there is one message which I should like 
to transmit, in this first publication, to the 
students of the School, it is my appreciation 
of the sentiment of brotherhood, which has 
grown so rapidly and is so deeply rooted that 
it has become the distinguishing trait and 
the prevailing spirit of this educational 
movement.
It is needless to dwell upon the fine prop
erty which the Carnegie Technical Schools 
put within the reach of the young men and 
women of the risking generations. It is need
less to dilate upon the great good fortune 
which all of us enjoy in hainng had an 
opportunity to share in and profit by Mr. 
Carnegies philanthropy. But it never seems 
out of peace to emphasize the real sense of 
gratitude and appreciation with which the 
beginnings of his educational institution 
have been welcomed by the citizens of our 
broad land.
There is not much for me to write, nor is 
there much to be said concerning my per
sonal contact with the individual members 
of the classes. Suffice it for me to declare that 
every moment thus spent has been precious 
to me; and to convey in these few lines my 
interest in and my affection for the men and 
women who are being moulded in this insti
tution, and my high hope for the dei>eloprnent of their productive power and for their 
future success.
Your friend, 
ARTHUR A. HAMERSCHLAG.
Next week: Development of the buildings 
on campus.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanFebruary 10, 1981
Communication, week 2: CIT admin, catalogued
DH Doherty Hall
HH Hamerschlag Hall
MMC Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall
PH Porter Hall
SH Scaife Hall
SCH Science Hall
Carnegie Institute of Technology
CIT Deans Office Angel G. Jordan x2477, SH 101
Associate Dean CIT: Melvin Bernstein x 2703, x 2479, SCH 3311 
Associate Dean CIT/MCS: Robert Kail x 2479, SH 110 
Assistant Dean CIT/MCS: Patricia Laughlin x 2479, SH 110
Biomedical Engineering
Chairman: John Leonard Anderson x 2344, DH 2311
Associate Dept. Head: John Paul Lehoczky x 2717, SCH 7107
Chemical Engineering
Head: Arthur Westerberg x 2230, DH 1105
Assist, to the Head: Jacqueline Paff x 2230, DH 1111
Administrative Asst.: Anne Sigerstad x 2230, DH 1101
Dir. Colloids, Polymers, Surfaces Option: Ethel Casassa x 2243, DH 3102
Civil Engineering
Head: Dwight Sangrey x 2940, PH 119D
Design Research Center
Director: Steven Fenves x 2944, PH 123C
LEGAL SERVICES RELATED TO 
IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION
Buchanan, Ingersoll, Rodewald, Kyle 8c Buerger,*
Professional Corporation 
600 Grant Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 
412-562-8972
TEMPORARY VISAS PERMANENT VISAS (GREEN CARDS) 
LABOR CERTIFICATIONS RELATIVE PETITIONS 
CITIZENSHIP
Pennsylvania does not recognize or rerctify legal socialities.
Electrical Engineering
Head: Floyd Humphrey x 3674, HH 113 
Associate Head: Stanley Charap x3563, HH 208 
Assistant to the Head: Marian Kovalchik x 2454, HH 110
Engineering and Public Policy
Head: Granger Morgan x 2672, BH 129 
Administrative Asst.: Sandra Rocco x 3755, BH 129
Mechanical Engineering
Head: William Sirignano x 2500, SH 402
Asst, to Dept. Head: Diane Webber x 2502, SH 403
Departmental Asst.: Walton Forstall x 3632, SH 306
Administrative Asst.: Joanne Dubrawski x 2500, SH 402
Cir. of Center of Entrepreneurial Development: Dwight Bauman x 2490, SH 410
Dir. Center for Energy and Environmental Studies: Edward Rubin x 2491, SH 30
ME Lab Supervisor Victor Lechowicz x 2516, HH 5
Metallurgy and Materials Science
Head: Robert Floyd Sekerka x2700, SCH 3327 
Assoc. Head: Edwin Ruh x2701, x2694, SCH 3319 
Administrative Asst.: Judith Ash Guy x2701, SCH 3323
Coordinator Industrial Internship Option: Carl Theodore Haller x2702, SCH 330! 
Dir. Center for the Joining of Materials: J.C. Williams x2704, x3654, SCH 3315 
Supervisor-Central Research Facilities: Jerome Kraitchman x2676, SCH 4317 
Metallurgical Transactions
Assist. Editor: Gerhard Derge x2694, DH A315 
Production Editor: Barbara Stoats x2694, DH A313 
Assist. Production Editor: Mary Ann Derge x2694, DH A313 
Tech IV Stores Supervisor: Robert Miller x2688, DH C311
Military Science
Colonel, Field Artillary: J.J. Mossellem, 624-6199, MMC B-5
Nuclear Science and Engineering
Chairman: J. Fletcher Osterle x3632, SH 307
Rail Systems Center
Director: Richard Uher x2961, PH 118M
FEATURES WRITERS
meeting Wed. 7:00 PM TARTAN office
/ y
f Aoo
&
sr sp
c
>'


---------------------------------------------------

COMMON GROUNDS 
PASSIONATELY INVITES THE LOVERS LISTED BELOW
(AND EVERYONE ELSE)
TO MEET YOUR SECRET ADMIRER AT THE SECOND ANNUAL
PASSION
PARTY
Lane-cold hands/warm heart 
G. Lites-his mole 
R.Lipscomb-I.L.M.J ./K.O.R. 
J.Liput-her ivory pillars 
J.Liput-his rear view 
Larry L.
Ken L.-his cute
N.Lefko-her love 
J.Linkowski-our friendship
P. Lazzara-late night....
Ms. L.-Chris F.
R.Lehman-his organ 
L.Lazar-her flutes 
J.Ligusk-his organ 
B.Lawrence-his whiskers 
K.Lambert-vibrant personality 
M.Lapiduss
G.Leahy-his bad jokes 
Lynette-her piggy backs 
Lew-black aura 
Mr. Libby-his cologne 
J.Link
Laura-her typewriter 
R.Lucas-J.K.M.B.R.S.J.D...
Larry of WRCT-his roommate 
E.LEE-speaks so well 
M.Lee-zany personality 
Laura-sundaes and bagels 
L.Latonik-her endearing qual 
Lisa-her machine gun 
Dave L.-wild nites @ Holiday 
J.Lou-his ignorance 
Lisa-decisiveness 
S.Lee-his handshake 
Joan Larson
D.LeRoy-Ah-ha-ha-ha 
Jay LoomisLia-homeland 
Lobo-his moccasins 
LPS-childs heart
B.LawrenceM.Lynch-his preppiness
E.Livingston-his ankles
D.Lemonides-flannel nightgown 
Prof. Lawless-his looks 
Laurie-her mittens 
Leeann-her tight jeans 
SweetLoretta-pr. of friends
E.L.-nubbies
S.McEIfish-dog taffy, rational
C.Marble-sex magazines 
M.Milgram-picks things up 
J.Macartney-nice legs 
M.Mazzie-voluptuous body
A.M.Moses-finely shaped 
Anne-Marie-sexy smile 
Mommy-JCW III 
Mentz-Baby-smiling face 
Mudges Sun. AM D-x>rman 
Mattboard Masonite 
Mittens-Laurie
M and M-muscular chest 
J.Marriot-side part
D.Mosby-cute behind
D.McDevitt-blond streak
A.Mylan-blue eyes
F.Mynatt-tidy room
E.Moore-his Bibs 
Molly-cosmopolitan style 
Marta-her fingers 
Mam-creativity 
Mitch-Sugar buns 
Stuart M.-radio widow 
r.Majewski-southem com. 
r.Marie-her movies
A.McCurdy-his chick
J.Marshall-counting abil. 
K.McKieman-manly beard 
Prof.Miller -memory 
M.S.Morgan-raincoat, legs
D. MillerJughead
R.Moore-sleeping position 
Mel.M-listens to Keith
B. McGhee 
T.McDevitt 
R-Michael-so sweet 
L.Mader-top bunk 
J-Michaels
BMeridith-sexy smile
G.Novak-all-Amer. good Iks.
E.Novak-Mr. Varsity
NFB-red RX-7/fur coat
C. Neuman-sexy bald head 
Newton-conehead 
Nikki-nuclear quarters
B.Nelson-vibrant person 
L.Neiman-voice 
T.Nagler-way she hums 
P.Nanni
Myron-his thutenu
D.Nichols-height 
Katie Johnson 
Ronald Jean-Louis 
Justine Jones-legs 
P.Johnson(lock smith)
G. Josephson-roomie 
Naomi Josephson 
Tom Joseph
Laura J.
Peggy J.
E. Jones-she loves men 
Scott Jones
I. Juzang-hot pants 
Jackie
Jiminese-big heart 
JCW Ill-his father 
J.G-ba lancing 
Jenny-obvious 
Jessie-Newark accent 
Joe-trendsetter 
Jay-his roomate 
Jan-whips 8c chains 
John-hi scalp 
fanet-painted on pants 
J-9-goes without saying 
Joanna of A-tower, Morewood 
Jeff-toenails
My 81 Jaguar sportscar
A.Goodman-pillow fights 
R.Gorelick-goat laugh 
R.Greenstein-J igsy
Gals in D3-garbage disposal
D.Gensler-her love 
T.Greer-Kiltie costume 
M.Gehm-natural good looks 
P.Gutter-mammoth seins! 
Glenn-as my honeybun 
Green Bean
Goofy-her alligators 
G.Giordano-Bette Davis 
N.Goldstein-cheerleading
B.Gould-his size 
S.Ginsberg-Scott LeDoux 
K.D.H.-homs
M.Hackett-Slpg. Beauty pose 
I.Hobbs-being photogenic 
R.Howie-his roommate 
Headdy LaCocke deMoro 
T. Hart-hairy chest,sleazy
C. Harvey-punctua 1 i ty
E. Hanson-kindness,courtesy 
Irene-taking chances 
Islanders-81 Stanley Cup! 
Josh-concem for Ks lungs 
N.Josephson-Pennant winner 
J.J.M.-mirrored ceiling 
Jerry John-sexy staff
P.Kullen-dexterity 
K.E.L.-S and M,TLC 
Karen-below her naval 
M.Kochanowski-warm hands 
K.Kerlin-soft, fuzzy body 
G.Murray-sweet,kind tolerant 
Glenn-sexy body 
Mike M.-wonderful smile 
Mark and Shari-furriness 
MJF-being my honey 
Megan M.-her scream 
Melissa-pumpkin hair
D.McPherson-furry bared 
L.Meinen-dirty mouth,sexy
B.McGhee-his bum 
Matt-his love
MJ and Sue 
Jim M.-his radio voice 
S.Maffett-lack of interest 
Mr. Matt-passionate kisses 
S.Meyer-radio personality
Le Nerd-friend Steve 
GLubon-Miss Piggy Cal. 
CLee-love of puppies and me 
Jackie,Lo-shots,ladder abil.
L. Levin
L.Landlau-nice body 
N.Lesnie-her culture 
Loretta-makes me feel great 
S.Lacey-pocket ping-pong 
P.Locker-impersonates walls 
Linda-moonlight dancing 
J.Lavinsky-sensual moustache 
t.Lee-just plain wonderful 
D.Lemonides-kinkiness 
L.Lukasik-cheerful,helpful
B.Laffey-her smile 
S.Levin-rocking chair
C. McCune-tenacity 
M. MavTovic-his car 
Melodie-her hair 
Melodie Blondie-body
A.McCurdy-Ich Liebe Dich 
K. Henry-engineering mind 
J. Hurst-her body
A. Hunter his sister
D. Hassell-thankful and lucky 
G.Halen-P.Farrell 
G.Hower his personality 
D.Hoffmeister-talent 
R.Hook-his eyes and Elmer 
S. Harrisson?????
B.Hamerschlag-unmetionable 
D.Huot-phony accent
C.Hamilton-her studio 
L.Hagerman-tight beige pants 
S.Hall-Moose 
P.Houlton-Every thing 
M.Hackeu-?
D.Haser-his legs 
N.Houska-her fathers money 
Holmes-sexy
E.Hanson-shes special
S. Home-persistance 
M.Homer-his body 
P.Herz-burgandy robe 
M.Hackett-St P Days parties 
B.Hemdon------
B. Hollyer-his single 
Mike Homer fine looks
A. Hahn-such a cute guy
B.Harte-sweetcheeks 
B.Herseoe-his bouffant 
Heidi-her black Garter 
Tom H.-his guitar 
Michele H.-personality 
J.Koslow-his joints 
Kelli-love
GKretz-bewitching drum 
Kurt-wrestling tech.
P Kammins-could be the max 
Kitty-her children 
K.L. -putting me first 
K.E.L.-cute smile 
S.Kessler-his blue sweater
B.Kelly-his lovingness 
P.Krem-his grin 
K.Keams-the purple tiger 
M.Klein-those terrific fish 
Beth Klenosky
D.Kelly-his tongue
E.D.King-his keilbassa 
Kathy Krummert 
Keith-a special friend 
M.Kamlet-worth investigating 
Mary Kulper
K. Kuharic-figure 
S.Kuha-his fantastic fingers 
M.Kelly-his personality 
Karen-sugarlips'
C.Klaja-her hair 
Ken-ask little bancho 
Skippy-Pooh Kuhn
A.Kamavas-her great legs
Larry L.
Leone-great !
J.Ligush-way he fills jeans 
B.Birmingham-TV and car 
P.Boyd-T.W.S.T.M.
Boys from Boss-window talkin 
Barb-Johannesburg 
J.Bost-yogurt raisins 
Band leader-cute face 
Bean-untucked tee-shirt 
Bill,Stuart,and Dusdn 
G.Boal-crumpled lab reports 
S.Berger-small ego 
J.Becker-noise he makes 
Mikie B.-everything 
Brian from DTD-silky hair 
P.Barbacci-teasing Amer. men 
D.Buffalin-her "melons
A.Bardol-her design 
The Bank-her legs
S. Biemesser-powerful smile 
Barry-curly hair 
Binny-4 year friendship 
GBarr-"oooh baby" 
G.Dalton-swell guy
D.B.s-McGill 3rd south 
K.Denney-gets who she wants 
J.Dean-everlasting presence 
ADespres-most wonderful man 
Drak and Space-waterbeds
G.Drakulic-bird dogging 
Diane-elevator behavior
Dee Gee-mee! her ribs 
S.Dankocik-green grass 
S.Dietzen-farkleabilities 
M.deLeon-lookin like a brick 
Dawn-shy,lovely eyes
F.Crawford-generosity 
Patricia C.-love she shares
B.Crain-his innocence!?
Vicky C.-camel tail whip 
S.Cohen-his roommate 
L.Crossey-P.Cardin workboots
B.Clemens-bullwhip collect. 
M.Caine-stick-on alligator 
L.Chimento-friendly person
C.S.-Lucy in the Sky
B.Condon-comflakes 
CCamino-spaghetti sauce
B.Entriken-animal lust 
K.Elmer-being noisy?
Erik-Cal. nude beach tan
E.E. secretary 
M.Ehrenberger
E.E. girls
S.Eckert-early for class
B.Quillette-Jimmy Buffet 
Leila R.-brown eyes
D.Rapport-boney back
B. Runion-huggableness
C. Reyes-voice
M.Robin,E.Prince
C.Regan-SS Arizona tattoo
B. Rafael-starting in reverse 
Prof. Rouleau-lots of head
and shaft work!
Ray R.-punch trees 
K.Relihan-sexual fantasies 
Lumpy Robbins-sexy belly 
R.Radetsky-innooent naivete 
Andy Blimpie Rossi 
J.Sonntag-wonderful backrubs 
Smitty-her attributes 
A.Spence-his smile
A.Schaffer-his nose 
P.Spano-his nose 
.A.Shapiro-her height
D.Staresinic-his hair 
Skeats-her attitude 
S.A.W.- dckling in vain 
Smash-resume
B.Springsteen-Cadillac Ranch 
K.Sunderman-his chest
D.Stroker-personality 
K.Smith-her tail feathers 
M^cuffle-WOW 
W.Sidliano-blue eyes 
P.Smith-f/iose socks 
P.Smith-his image 
Farmer Slaven-Cow Town
D.Sautoro-her following 
P.Shea-his pigs 
L.Simone-her brainpower
M .Salmon-Sharon
A.Shenill-Dino imitadon 
N.Solano-S.Whitman albums
C.Todaro-Oh, its snowing 
Tri-Delts-over-easy 
S.Tietjen-his man-number 
T-Bible reading 
Thom-AM lab personality 
L.Tannenbaum-legs,R-ball 
J.Venzon-toenail clippers
B.Vanarthos-sexy tush 
Voluptuous Arabian 
J.Vaughn-availability 
Jana Caras
Jim-Bob Cantwell-braces
MORE ON PAGE 17
Lee Cass-Pocket 
Amy Cook 
Dan Carlin-cute aCMU-EE Senior Class 
Albe Cammisa 
Tim Carlin-sexy legs 
Henry Chung 
Armand Castelli 
Darin Camey
Mike Crammer-wild parties
Jerry Clarke-Baltimore
Nany Chrisue
Jacki Cochrane
Anne Cusack
Alberto Casa-ey es
Beth Caton
Kurt Colbom
Cheryl Connoly
Mark Cardwell
Rick Chimera
Judy Conte-421.95
Darin Camey
M. Caine-earring
Betty Coed
R. Condon-roommate
Gordon C
Bill C
Dave C
Cara K.-smile
Chucklesnothing
Christine
Chuck
Cindy
Cookie Pudding 
Chris-her frogs 
Coyote Coat-fur 
Caesar Gorski 
Brenda Goldstein 
M. Garrity-squeal 
Chris Gebhart 
P. Grachen-organ 
Terry Geffel 
M. Godhammer 
Scott Griffith 
K. Guesman 
Girls in Donner 201,202 
Graphic Design 
Ruth G.
Dave G.
Randy G.-box cars 
God-Don B.
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 13
MOREWOOD, 9:30 - 1:00 
FEATURING FRONT PAGE
Angie.E.-long.sexy legs 
E.L-neck kisses while I draw 
Frank-fine skill at ear jobs 
R.J.Fontana-trite expressions 
M.Fisher-everlasting patience 
Father John W.-Cindy 
B.Fentonberg-henna hair 
Fran and Tina-their music 
Nancy-her strut 
Nickel-perfect eyebrows 
New York-not being Pgh
D.Nichols-derierre
M. N euhaus-smi le 
l-A-3-their passion
Omar-passionate lovemaking
B.Orloski-scrambled eggs 
L.OHve-hots for M.ONan 
Picasso MacLeod Dali 
M.Page-yellow sweats
E.Prince-rubber band aiming 
L.Pf is ter-sexual prowess 
Primy-lunch surprises 
Pete(Donner H.)-personality 
J.Palladino-I.Q Beer
C.Perlee-taste in cloches 
PROF. Kohman-his lab lecture Portia-zaniness
S.Franane Pflugy-backgammon wizardry!
Je^ Pi ttsburgh - warm winters
Hake in my life Ponch-sex appeal
Fred L.Qamar-sa touche et regard
A.Yam-biting wit
J.Young-hardcore super 8s 
J.Yokel-tact and charm 
M.Wallman-cheezing
B.Witherall-his Z-28
B.Williams-receding hair 
J.Wad-wit and charm
C.Weiss-sex appeal 
L.Whitmore-T.L.C.,body 
Wojo-Zets obvious.no? 
Ward-armpits 
T.Wolff-his FFRB 
CUher-innocence,eyes 
Jeff Glajch
Ann Gardner 
Sharon Garmano 
*Fracy Ginther 
Darryl Gresham 
Genny Gaiser 
Debbie Guerrein 
Steve Garber 
Louise Garland 
Eric Grosshans 
Mark Geiselman 
Denise Gurowski 
P. Greenstein-greenbean 
Eugene Gelblum 
Anita G.-*?!#<
C.Gates-muscular legs
Due to limited space, we couldnt print all the names and attributes. 
However, all of the original names and attributes will be available at the party.
Dana Amsdell-appeute 
Kim Ames
Stacy Alabardo-taste in men 
Mark Andrews-beef 
Ann 8c Wendy-sillies 
George Athens-#6 
Lee Achre-domestic 
Eric Armstrong 
Peter Aldins 
Ahmet Jr.-dancing 
Laura Asch
Dave Ableman-dimples
Amy-Chuck & Todd
Asparagus-passivity
Anita
Armando
Gary A
Ann
Abba
Adrienne
A Huffy
A2B2
Kevin Cauthem 
Albert Cammisa-his body 
Rocky Cersosimo 
John Coughlan 
CMU Dramats-modesty 
Ron Qelland 
Chuck-Todd 8c Amy 
Stanley (Buns) Cieslak 
Kevin Cauthemn-wife 
Pat Crump-reputation

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 10, 1981
Congrats to the members of fall 80 Deans lists!
CARNEGIE INSTITUTEQp John Franjione (ChE)Guoquan LuTECHNOLOGYMary GangwischMary Lynch
James Garrett (CE)Gary Madine (EE)
Christopher AlbertsRandy Gigante (ChE)Brian Manley
Joseph Allen (ME)William GratwohlJohn Mason
Stephen Bachorski (EE)Steven Gray (ME) Philip Mason
Reha BafraliTamara GricusFrancois Maystre (EE)
Stephen Balsone (MMS)Douglas HackettDavid McDevitt (EE)
Wayne Balta (CE)James L. Hackett III (ChE)Pedro Mejia Jaramillo
Joseph Barrett (ME)David Hall (EE)Stuart Meyer (EE)
Michael BartschatJames Hemmerle (MEG)Alvin Miller (MMS)
Edward A. Beam IIIKenneth Henry (ChE)Mark Morra (ME)
John Becker (ChE)Barbara Hile (ChE)Patrick Muir (EE)
Lawrence Berger (ChE)David HoltschneiderJames Muller
Stacy Bike (ChE)Daniel Hosko (EE)John Murray (EE)
Thomas Bober (ChE)Stephen Hrinya (EE)Arthur Muzik
Bruce Bowers (EE)Charles Hura (ME)Daniel Nash
David Brady (EE)Jacqueline Isaacs (MMS)Jordan Nash
Robert Brennan (EE)David Jacobs (ME)Richard Newpol
David BrownClaude Johnson (CE)Rondert D. Packard III
James BrownJohn JourdainRaymond Painter (MMS)
Christopher Carroll (EE)Michael Juran (EE)Jose Passalacqua
Augustin ChangPaula Kasmerski (ChE)Cel so Perez
Gregg Charlton (EE)Marlin Kinzey (ChE)Mark Pflugfelder (ChE)
James ChriseWendell KnicelyGil Pomeranz (ChE)
William Corpus (CE)Michael Kochanowski (ChE)Michael Prescott
Daniel CoxDavid Kofke (ChE)Jeffrey Price (MMS)
David Creighton (EE)Michael Kopczyk (EE)Debra Regets (ME)
Paul Crumley (EE)Richard KosudaSarah Richards (ChE)
Keith DevosJames Kottas (EE)Robert Rizzitano
Scott DietzenStephen Kraus (EE)Jeffrey Rosa (CE)
Thomas Dubyak (CE)Ernestine Kuhr (ME)William Rozzi (EE)
Robert DuvallMaria Lacey (ChE)Mary Saccamango (EE)
Laurie Elm (MMS)Katherine LacinaBrian Sauk (EE)
Eric Estochen (EE)Richard Lamaire (EE)Harry Shamansky
Carole Etienne (ME)Thomas Laritz (EE)Lance Smith
Alexander Feild (ME)Marin Leister (EE)Charles Sobey
Patricia FeineigleZexiang LiJeffrey Sonntag (EE)
Jonathan FeroceWilliam Licht (ChE)George Spanos (MMS)
James Fisher (EE)Abraham Lincoff (ChE)Daniel Spikula (CE)
Is There Life After 
Graduate School?
Myth: An advanced technical degree will get you a job 
in industry that will keep you on the production 
line for years before youll get a chance to do 
some real research.
Fad: Fairchilds Central R&D Laboratories have re
search opportunities for new MS and PhD grad
uates NOW.
At Fairchilds Central Research and Development Laboratories in Palo 
Alto, California, the atmosphere is charged with new ideas, new 
developments, and new expansion. Fairchilds increasing commitment to 
strong research programs is extending the frontiers of electronics 
technology in telecommunications, advanced VLSI circuit logic, 
processing systems, CCD image sensing, CAD technologies, and artificial 
intelligence.
All this activity means that opportunities to move directly from graduate 
to industry research couldnt be better than right now.
On-Campus Interviews Monday & Tuesday February 16-17
If youre about to receive a Masters or PhD in a technical field, contact 
your Career Planning and Placement Center for an appointment with a 
representative from Fairchilds R&D Labs. For more information on 
Fairchild in Palo Alto, call J.A. Blades at (415) 493-3100. Or you may send 
your resume directly to University Relations, Fairchild Central Research & 
Development Laboratories, 4001 Miranda Avenue, Palo Alto, California 94304.
As an affirmative action employer, we encourage women, members of 
minority groups and the handicapped to apply.
FAIRCHILD
A Schlumberger Company
James Stevenson (ChE)
Frank Sweeney (EE)
Lee Tannenbaum (ChE)
Lisa Tietz
Stephen Tomas (EE)
Christopher Toney (ME)
continued on page 11
Spectrometer aids 
cancer research
by Matt Corley
Camegie-Mellon chemistry professois 
Jesef Dadok and Aksel Bothner-By are 
directing the universitys Nuclear Magnetic 
Resonance Facility in the study and explora
tion of the large molecules (or macromole
cules) which are essential to the processes of 
life. They use a nuclear magnetic spectrome
ter (an instrument which reveals the specific 
location of certain atoms in a molecule) 
with a superconducting magnetic core 
which generates a magnetic fiels 300,000 
times that of the earth. With this, three 
dimensional maps of complex biological 
molecules are developed that can provide a 
vast amount of information about how 
these macromolecules function in an orga
nism. The facility, which is the first of 
eleven similar facilities supported by the 
National Institute of Health, hopes to pro
vide new insight into solving such medical 
problems as cancer and sickle cell anemia.
Black history
continued from page 7 
gospel show on the 22nd; and a two week 
display of educational biographies in the 
Hunt Library Showcase from the 16th to the 
end of the month.
In turbulent times such as these, it is cru-1 
rial that we make an attempt to reach a high 
level of understanding between all peoples, 
and one easy way is through exploration of 
history. Its right here on campus, so why 
deny yourself? Check out Black His ton 
Month at CMU.
:
i
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
ABORTION
? free pregnancy tests 
 confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
 non-profit medical facility

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1981The TartanPage 11
CIT/MCS Deans list honor 3.15 pt. averages
MELLON COLLEGE OF 
SCIENCE
Robert Aarhus 
Charles Bauer (C) 
Figen Baydur 
Donald Behnke (PHY) 
Arthur Benjamin (M) 
Glenn Benson 
Robert Berger (M) 
Janet Beyer 
Keith Borden (C) 
Matthew Bulger 
Jan Cook
Joseph Costantino (C) 
Michael Cullen (M) 
James Dickson (C)
Donald Dyer (M) 
Angela Franco (M) 
Patricia Freeman 
Charles Garizas (M) 
Mark Goldhamer (C) 
Gayle Grazer (PHY) 
Arthur Gurney (M) 
Robert Hainsey (PHY) 
David Harrison (M) 
Randy Headrick (PHY) 
Loren Hemachandra 
LeAnne Henry (C) 
Daniel Henderliter (M) 
Lucie Huang 
Sophia Landau (M) 
William Levin
Joseph Mattis (M)
Paul Mendler (M)
Kevin Mitchell (M)
Cheryl Morter (C)
Sherman Page (PHY)
Roger Patrick (C)
Robert Patterson 
Edward Powell 
Robert Reid (BSC)
Elisha Sacks (M)
Steadman Sankey 
Ronald Sauers (M)
Alejandro Schaffer (M)
Jeffrey Siemon 
Lawrence Sita (C)
continued on page 25
mntinued from page 10
^tephen Trapp 
Bruce Trot tier (ME) 
^Robert Uber 
^fcavid Vensel 
^Jeter Vujaklia (CE) 
Hk'onnan J. Wagner III 
*B.ra ig Watson (ME) 
^evin Weaver (EE) 
jHoseph Witkowski 
^Kcil Yosinski (EE) 
Hark Yost (ME) 
Stephen Zemba (ME) 
^tephen Zitney (ChE) 
Hliomas Zsak (ME)1
Gulf Recruiting Representatives on campus: 
February 23,1981 
March 17,1981 
April 9,1981

---------------------------------------------------

THE VAMP
fflASQUERADE ... THE ART OF THE POSSIBLE
WITH AFFORDABLE PRICES FOR THE STARVING ARTIST
THE LARGEST SELECTION IN THE AREA FOR AUTHENTIC APPAREL & COSTUmES FROfTi THE 1890S 
TO THE 1960S FOR (TIEN AND WOmEN  234 SHADY AVE  SHADYSIDE  661-1844  fTlON-SAT W
BELOW A 1931 PHOTOGRAPH WITH THE CAPTION "FAMOUS ARCHITECTS FORMING A MINIATURE SKYLINE OF NEW YORK AS THEY DON THEIR BEAUX ARTS COSTUMES"
PARjAKIAN.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertain
:-ment.
Director Zaslove talks about Twelfth Night
by Adam Lauzar
Guest director Arne Zaslove will bring 
Shakespeares Twelfth Night into the 20th 
century with his production which opens this 
Thursday, February 12, in the Kresge
Theater.
Zaslove, invited here by Mel Shapiro, the 
head of the Drama Department, is at CMU 
for a five week stay. He is also teaching an 
Acting Styles class but was brought in prim
arily to direct Twelfth Night. Zaslove, a 
CMU alumnushe studied drama and 
directing here from 1957-61 with friend and 
I classmate Mel Shapirois part of a program 
initiated by Shapiro which involves bring
ing in outside guests or professors to 
direct and work with upperclass CMU 
drama students. One aspect of Shapiros 
program is making the actors learning 
| experience as professional and varied as 
j possible.
Zaslove comes to CMU with a broad back| ground in theater which includes a multiThe Rivals
by Maria Barbuto
The Rivals by Richard Sheridan is a 
delightfully complicated comedy with 
many plot twists, set in the heart of Merry 
Olde England. The play which could be 
retitled Love for Lydia centers around the 
particular affections three men have for a 
woman and the complex situations that 
result from their persistance.
Lydia (Eileen M. Seekey) is being actively 
persued by the noble Captain Jack Absolute 
who is known to her as Beverly, a common 
poor man. It seems that Jack (William R. 
Mott) is pasing as poor Beverly to insure that 
Lydias love is of the heart and not of the 
wallet. But Lydia is actually delighted w'ith 
her pauper lover because she would like 
nothing better than to elope, enrage her 
overbearing aunt; and create a general 
scandal.
We then meet Lydias spicy maid Lucy 
(Ruth Klimovich) who is a younger version 
of Mrs. Naugatuck. It seems that Lucy' is a 
devilish wench w ho has devised a system by 
which she plays informant to anyone and 
everyone willing to pay the high fee for her 
hot scoops and juicy tidbits. One of her 
more cunning endeavors is to trick a 1 wring 
Irishman Lucius OTrigger into thinking 
he is corresponding love letters with the 
prissy Lydia when he has actually secured 
the heart strings of none other than the 
highly undesirable Mrs. Malaprop.
The infamous Mrs. Malaprop, wearing a 
s high top hairdo with skunk tail 
s tripe down the middle, slaughters the Eng
lish language so flagrantly that to this day 
the term Malapropism refers to the mistude of directing and teaching positions 
throughout the U.S. and in Canada. He 
studied in Paris, was the Artistic Director of 
the National Theater School in Montreal, 
started a professional training program at 
the University of Washington and has 
worked on productions at the Chelsea 
Theater Center in Manhatten; he has 
worked in New York regional theater and 
on off-Broadway productions
Currently based in Seattle, Washington, 
Zaslove is the director of two theaters; the 
Floating Theater, a Touring Company, and 
The Bath-House City Theater.
As one can see, Mr. Zaslove arrives here 
w ith very sound and impressive credentials.
Twelfth Night has been in rehearsal for 
four and a half weeks. Hie cast of Twelfth 
Night consists mostly of senior Drama 
Theater majors.
- The romantic comedy involves several 
cases of love at first sight, mistaken identi
ties, miraculous rescties, dirty tricks, occa
sional drunkenness and, of course, a happy 
ending.
Director Zaslove sees parallells between 
the atmosphere in the U.S. in the 1920s and 
the atmosphere in which the original text 
takes place. Asked why he was setting the 
production in the 20s he responded, I am 
placing Shakespeare in another period to 
illuminate the world of the play by giving it 
a more contemporary' setting. He sees van
ity and ego, superficiality and self indul
gence, partying and festiveness as the key 
themes. According to him, The play 
reflects the atmosphere of the 1920s just 
before the crash, when everyone was letting 
loose between the two world wars.
The most important preparation for 
Twelfth Night involved the study of the 
language structure. Shakespeare is one of 
the hardest playwrights ,to do because of the 
diction and rhythm of the language, says
Zaslove. Though the setting of the play is in 
the 1920s, the language used w ill be the old 
English that appears in Shakespeares origi
nal text. The comic figures and clowns in 
the play use prose, the lovers speak in blank 
verse and. in moments of heated passion, 
they use rhyming verse. The secondary' prep
aration involved the research into the 
fashion, habits and manners of the people in 
the 20s.
Zaslove sees a small, wealthy, eastern coas
tal town as the setting for the play. It was a 
challenge to search for businesses and 
locales that would take the place of those in 
the original play, explained the director. 
The action takes place in two huge, old 
mansions, bringing Great Gatsby images 
into mind.
The music for the show was scored by 
Michelle Dibucci, a junior composition 
major here at CMU. Dibucci has previously 
composed scores for Rosencrantz and ikroN 
denstern Are Dead on the mainstage and 
Two Gentlemen of Verona in the studio 
Theater. She is actively involved in compos
ing for Pittsburgh theater. Dradula.Sabbat, 
(reviewed last week in The Tartan), the third 
show that she has scored for the Pittsburgh 
Laboratory Theater is currently playing in 
Oakland. Working with Zaslove she has 
created music representative of the 1920s 
The music incorporates jazz, dixieland 
and swing styles
Costumes (of which there will be 60!), sets, 
designs, and props were all designed by 
graduate students, executed by undergradu
ates, and supervised by the staff of Drama 
Department professors. Zaslove stressed the 
importance of everything fitting into one 
schemehis grand design.
Questioned on the quality of the actors (in 
the cast) Zaslove commented, They are 
committed, have tremendous energy, are 
very inventive, and w ork together well as an 
ensemble.
In comparing the Drama Department of 
today and the one in the 50s Zaslove said, 
Were further away from the older tradition 
felt in the 50s, old style professionalism. 
He said The staff and chairmen then had 
been in charge for a long tenure. There were 
more classics taught then.
The director thinks that more exposure to 
the old classics makes for a better base of 
knowledge increasing the w'orking actor's 
vocabulary. According to Zaslove, Drama 
School should teach the basic codes, eti
quette, and aesthetics of professionalism.
In closing, Zaslove commented on the 
purpose of the actors education at CMU 
Standards here have always been aimed at 
the working professional. Putting the stu
dents on the professional stage and prepar
ing them for careers in the theater is what it 
is all about.
Twelfth Night will play Monday Febru
ary 12 through Saturday, February 21 in the 
Kresge Theater in the Fine Arts building.
Who shall love whom?
use of language. Mrs. Malaprop is not even 
faintly aware of her quirk. Ironically she 
boldly declares that young girls should be 
promptly sent away to boarding school so 
that they do not commit the heinous crime 
of mispronouncing words. When Mrs. 
Malaprop (Robin Walsh) discovers that her 
niece Lydia is in love with Beverly who 
appears to have no title or estate, she gets 
violently agitated and lets fly a blue streak of 
faintly recognizable insults.
Next, w'e are introduced to the erractic 
love relationship between Lydias cousin 
Julia (LaChele Carl) and her very insecure 
lover Faulkland (John Gresh). Faulkland 
had been overly concerned about Julias 
health and happiness while hes been away. 
Returning from his travels he begins to 
doubt Julias love for him w hen he finds out 
that she has been happily content the entire 
time he has been gone. So goes their rela
tionship, with Faulklands mercurial 
moods resulting from Julias latest actions. 
Julia and Faulkland represent the insecuri
ties that love can bring and is perfectly 
illuminated by Faulklands frequent, whim
sical passages.
Adding to this motley crew is the high 
spirited twit Bob Acres (Marco Kujovic) 
who is one of Lydias ex-suitors. Acres 
doesnt do much of anything but get his 
body stuck in wierd positions and act oddly. 
When he finds out that his Lydia has 
fallen for another man, the spritely wimp 
decides to challenge the man to a duel. 
Acres challenge is fueled by the insistence of 
fresh-out-of-the-pub OTrigger. The chal
lenge creates humorous complications.
In the next scene Jacks father Sir 
Anthony (Alan Fisher) informs Jack that he 
has arranged for him to inherit an estate, 
which comes with a wife already intact. Jack 
finds this arrangement to be highly unreaso
nable and engages in a minor tiff with his 
father. Luckily for Jack, his servant, a Liberace look alike whos name is, appropriately 
enough, Fag, finds out from the enterpris
ing Lucy that Sir Anthonys estate includes 
the much sought after Lydia. Once Jack 
hears of this, he decides to play it very cool. 
He allows his father to introduce him to his 
future wife.
Naturally, the irritating Mrs. Malaprop, 
looking most like an overgrown pear, is
absolutely delighted that her future son-inlaw is of such high rank. She procedes to tell 
Jack about Lydias love for the scoundrel 
Bev erly; Jack winces. Mrs. Malaprop who at 
this point resembles a wicked step mother, 
taunts Lydia unmercifully because she 
refuses to speak to her visitor. However, 
when Lydia realizes that Jack is her dear 
Beverly, she spills the beans and runs into 
his arms. After the initial confusion, Sir 
Anthony welcomes Jack back into his good 
graces and Mrs. Malaprop breaks into a 
toothy grinbut Lydia is irked.
As the final scene rolls around, Lydia is 
angry with Jack, Julia is angry with Faulkcontinued on page 17
Design at Forbes St. Gallery
Its back to design this week at the Forbes 
Street Gallery. Senior graphic designers 
Ellen Roebuck, Lynn Koupal and Alan 
Yampolsky will join industrial designer 
Craig Otto in a show of their work begin
ning tonight and extending through Febru
ary' 15.
The show will include a display of out
standing graphic and poster designs as well 
as photography , silk screening and paper, 
like this semesters other design shows, this 
new display will feature the graphic 
designers Performing Arts poster.
Many of the works that will appear in this 
show will be familiar to Forbes Street 
patrons as advertisements that have adorned 
the CMU campus. Other work in this 
exhibit has never been in public display
before.
The opening tonight is 7 PM to 10 PM. 
The gallery is open throughout the week 
and is free and open to the public.

---------------------------------------------------

WRCT PROGH
SUNDAYMONDAYTUESDAYWEDNESDAY
6:00 a.m.Sounds of Power ||!1|
Begin vour week
The Music Continuum B
Alan Schneider ^
Featuring a variety ^ 
of sounds to help 
start your day. hmm
Bob Talda Jfj
A mix of classical 
with the Lord. 
Tune in for con
temporary and tra
ditional Christian 
music with Eric 
Butler.
Join Phil Mason 
tor an extravaganza 
of tunes from all 
ends of the world of 
music.
rock and mellow 
jazz, spiced with an  
occasional new 
wave surprise.
9:00 a.m.Gospel
Praise the Lord in 
song, each Sunday 
morning with your 
hostess Justine 
Jones.
^ 
T. James W jj
M a k e Monda y 
something to look JP 
forward to, as T. Ml 
James puts 
accent on easy.
High on the Heap
Traditional music 
for a sound envir
onment.
St. Christopher
Blues, jazz, comedy, j* 3 
rock n roll, and 
your requests," 
including tne guest vttt 
feature artist. V
12:00 p.m.Alices Restaurant
Alice serves up a ^ 
plate of jazz, with a J 
side of folk, a cup of HS 
rock and your 
favorite recipies, 
too. Rare, yet 
always well-done!
The Black-Eyed 
Susan Show
Margaret brings 
you bluegrass, folk, 
and other forms of 
traditional music.
Paula
See Websters second definition of J 1 
mellow.  2
Jazz n Blues
Eric Toft brings 
you progressive 
jazz, spacey jazz, 
blues, and fusion.
3:00 p.m.Ang D
From the jazziest of ^ 
jazz to the funkiest 
of funk, Ang. Ds 
music has just 
what you need.
Snow Dreams JP
The hosts favorite 
stash of rock n roll^ 
and jazz, chopped ^ 
fine to soothe your 
head.
Lane Lipton JP
Tune in and bop^ 
til you drop!!

Jazz in the Afternoon 
Expand your mind 
with jazz, blues and 
Jim.
1
4- " I
6:00 p.m.Jazz
A1 Long brings 
you the finest in 
modem jazz.
The Magic Bus
Hop on for a ride to MB 
the land of rock n 0/ 
roll, with your ^ 
driver, Dr. Jimmy.
Sloppy Joe and ^ 
Devereaux "A
The deviate duo (te 
dabble in miscel^ 
laneous music and 
madness. w
The Make-Believe 
Ballroom
It dont mean a 
thing if it aint got 
that swing. Big  
Band Jazz with a 
George Gee.
1
9:00 p.m.Sound, Color, and 
Movement
Michael K. features 
jazz, conversation, 
and black conciousness.
After Dark
Join Gayle for fresh Mi 
music from the^/ 
modern scene.19
Milt Orkin
Boasting the full 
spectrum of jazz for 
tne discriminating 
listener.
Eclectic Radio 1
Join Herb Stencil 
for a scenic trip \Jm 
tlrrough the music 1 
world, and find the J 
tr ue meaning of Mill 
eclectic.
MidnightTune in for loud 
rock and roll to ^7 
wake your neighbors and start the 
week.
Moment
Chris features^y 
music thats gua
ranteed to get you 
through the night.
Steve
Space wandering
music.
All the things you  
could have been by 
now if Sigmund ^1 
Freuds wife had j 
been your mother. jWRCT 88.3 FMSi
Funded by CarnegieMellon University activities fee.

---------------------------------------------------

GUIDE
FRIDAYpholbyRSATURDAY
Johnny Not-soRotten
Old wave rock and 
roll to start your 
Friday.
Ilark Bodnar
lor music to satisfy 
lour high aura! 
Itandards.
Jazz with Dan
Music to get your 
weekend off to a 
jazzy start.
WA^
Ear Candy
Chuck invites you 
to taste from his 
cauldron of sim
mering music, a 
mixture which 
strives to fulfill 
your aural crav
ings.
The Music Hole
Roger Bishop is 
your guide through 
a crowded world of 
music, specially tai
lored to get you out 
of bed.
l the Birch Tree.
I)h, good grief!! 
I ly along with 
IVoodstok,
doMEPyMtULOW
Archman
Join the Archman 
as he rides the crest 
of the new wave.
carsdale
azz for a relaxed 
['hursday afterIOOI1.
Marriotts Essex 
House
Check in for a get
away weekend.
News Blimp 9 a.m., 6 p.m., 12 a.m.
Oddities in the news brought to you in a w ild 
wray.
Dark Star
Start your weekend 
off with Scott FeldggE 
man on a musical SE 
trip through the 
outer limits.
Lunar Tunes
Melissa brings you 
a rainbow tuli of 
good music.
do the Rock.
btu provides music 
hr open minds, 
Kith a mixture of 
aew sounds, oldies, 
leggae, soul, clasics, and more.Nightly News 7 & 11 p.m.
WRCT Reporters and ABC combine to 
inform you of the latest world situation.
Joe Hartley
The show with the 
accent returns!!
Jacqui Woolley
raditional fiddle 
Bid banjo tunes, 
ish music, mounin ballads, swing, 
and more.
Sfhe Weekly Reader
Idternative news.
The Mad Hatter
More ecletic radio 
with progressive 
rock, jazz, new 
stuff,' comedyespecially, he 
looks fairly butch.
Job Watch 11 a.m.
Listen for the latest in jobs from Student Cor 
porations Rent-a-Tech program.
Radio Calendar 7:30 a.m., 1, 5, 7, fc 10 p.m.
The complete guide to whats going on and 
where its happening each night.
Music from the 
Other Side of the 
Fence
Dustin brings 
audio stimulation 
for people who are 
square pegs and 
don't want to fit 
into round holes.
Charlie Rhoades 
A psychadelic: ? i i \5Wiexcursion through
the spectrum of S
sound.
Musical Elixer
h finely blended 
lure-all; Jon plays 
I nusic to ease your 
I nind.
This Day in Rock 3 & 9 p.m.
Each day Captain Meyer sails back to the
past to examine trivia from yesteryear.
like Phillips
[asing you into 
nday with a pot
pourri of good
niusic.
Berkley Schroeder
Tune in and find 
out what causes 
wet pillows at mid
night.
Thirsty Ear Concerts Fridays, 8 p.m.
Listen for concert interview specials with 
Grace Slick, Don McLean, and Doug and the
Slugs.EREO
88.3
: I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 10, 1981
The not so incredible shrinking woman
by Kelly Doyle
The Incredible Shrinking Woman fea
tures Lily Tomlin as the shrunken house
wife, Pat Kramer and Charles Grodin as 
Vance Kramer, advertiser, and psuedo hus
band to Tomlin.
The movie opens in the heart of suburbia 
at the local supermarket. A T.V. announcer 
is accosting various shoppers for their opin
ion of Cheese-Tease, as he shoves crackers 
coated with the pasteurized, processed paste 
into their mouths. After loading her station 
wagon with bags of junk food, Lily arrives 
home in Tasty Meadows, her suburban 
haven.
Upon arrival at home, one of Lilys 
neighbors is waiting for her. As Tomlin 
walks in the door, her friend proceeds to 
demonstrate a new line of products for 
pathetic Lily. The neighbor, also played by
Tomlin, is a gaudy character, insensitive to 
Lilys mood after a harrowing trip to the 
grocery' store. She quickly pounces on Lily 
and shows her the line Flow Naturelle 
body-care products. The feature item is 
Braid-Easy feminine hygiene spray, that 
is, Oh! So good for you! About as good as 
the movie is.
Mr. Kramer comes home, clad in preppy 
polyester, pink and green of course, greets 
his wife, and offers to tuck the laddies in 
bed. Lily hastily refuses to let hubby lift a 
finger and goes to put the laddies to bed 
herself. The movie reaches its comic zenith 
here when one of the brats flicks the light 
switch several times, and says, Look 
Mommy, disco! After fulfilling her moth
erly duty, Lily attends to Mr. Kramer. They 
quickly get down to bedroom business.
Several days later in this plastic paradise,
Faculty exposes itself
Lily wakes up to find she is...you guessed 
it!shrinking! She meekly informs her hus
band of this fact and he tells her not to 
worry, that it must be her imagination. 
Where is his concern? However, Lily is 
right, she is shrinking. The kiddies notice 
their mothers decrease in size and offer 
about ten times as much support as her 
dried-up husband. Human nature triumphs 
as one kid says, I love you, Mommy. 
(Score two for the kids.) Finally, Mr. Kramer 
is convinced and concedes that his wife is 
shrinking. He carts the bedraggled Lily off 
to the Kleinmann Institute for Strange Disegses. The institute is remuniscent of the 
horror-filled hospital in Coma, with flourescent light and lots of white.
The doctors run tests, poke, and prod the 
minature Tomlin. They diagnose her con
dition as a result of a chemical reaction
caused by all the products she has used that 
her husband, good, old Vance, advertises. 
The artificial ingredients, preservatives, and 
FDC #6 yellow have waged chemical war
fare inside Tomlins body. Thus, the reason 
for her affliction and the movies grand 
social commentary .
Lily continues to shrink and is forced to 
wear Barbie-ddll clothes and live in a doll 
house. Enough is enough. At this point, the 
movie seems like a Saturday Nite Live flop, 
and it gets worse. Needless to say, Tomlins 
size becomes a major news issue and attracts 
the attention of a quack doctor who has 
designs on Lily. He wants to ^hrink the 
world. Brilliant ideanest-ce pas? The doc
tor needs some of Lilys blood in order to 
produce the shrink serum. Later in the 
movie there is a scene with a telephone oper
ator who turns out to be Tomlins 
continued on page 17
Design at the Hewlett. It does seem odd to 
find something other than drawings, paint
ings or sculpture in the prestigious exhibit 
area of the College of Fine Arts. It is surpris
ing to find work of the faculty of the Design; 
are they even part of Fine Arts?
For many years, the Department of 
Design has been located in Baker Hall apart 
from its fellow departments of CFA. Many 
people forget that design really is a part of 
that college, if they know it exists at all.
Now, the faculty of Design has moved 
proudly back into the majestic Hombostle 
building with a show of its work, profes
sional and idiosyncratic, in the Hewlett 
Gallery through February 19.
Any of the campus who are unfamiliar 
with Design as a creative discipline should 
stop in the gallery and meet the faculty of 
Design - not in person but through their 
work. The personalities and passions of 
each individual professors are expressed in
their work.
Most design work is not created tor gallery 
exhibits (although they are certainly worthy 
of that recognition). Design has alternative 
functionsto aid, to inform, to educate.
Some of the works reflect hobbies or non
professional endeavors. The variety ranges 
from a 16-foot long handmade canoe to 
printed posters, illustrations to product 
design, calligraphy to photography. The 
variety is as wide as the personalities of the 
faculty.
Often people ask what is design? and 
usually the designer is hard-pressed for an 
easy answer. Design covers an incredibly 
broad field and it is difficult to provide an 
answer that covers the range. Perhaps the 
best answer can be found in the examples of 
the variety of design now on display at the 
Hewlett Gallery. Stop in and leam about the 
forgotten CFA department, Design, 
through the work of its faculty.
i
LONDON  MADRID 
STRASBOURG  FLORENCE
* Variety of 
I courses offered *
| No language background 
I required * Financial aid 
. available * Summer programs 
' available in Italy, Great Britain & East Africa.
Name 
Address
State.Zip.| City----------------------------------------
| Program of Interest _____________________________________________________
 l or more information and application, return to Michael Calo, Division of* International Programs Abroad, 335 Comstock Ave., Syracuse, New York.| 13210, tel. (315) 423-347L_______________________________________________j
EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION HAS ALWAYS BEEN IMPORTANT.
Man learned at a very early age that good ideas have to be 
heard to be effective. So he devised his own method of 
getting those ideas across. Today, on the job ... or in 
school, communication remains a vital part of our world. 
Which is exactly what well be talking about in the upcom
ing issue of Insider  the free supplement to your col
lege newspaper from Ford.
Well tell you how to improve your communication skills
... from writing term papers and doing oral presentations, 
to communicating with friends, parents and persons of 
authority. And whether youre looking for an internship or 
a full-time job, weve got loads of info to help you get there. 
With tips on how to write a persuasive resume, handle an 
interview gracefully, use the telephone effectively, and 
much more.
Check out the next issue of Insider," and while youre look
ing, be sure to check out Fords great new lineup for 1981. 
Including Escort, the new world car thats built in America 
to take on the world.
FORD
FORD DIVISION
Look for "Insider"  Ford's continuing series of college newspaper supplements.

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1981The TartanPage 17
Heavy Metal discovered
by David Barger
Rock Musicians usually find that music 
that connects directly with a specific 
audience is much too limiting in its style. 
The versatility that most recording artists 
strive for forces them to veer off on different 
tangents of rock music.
Yet there is still hope for those in need of a 
high energy fix, because of the numerous 
high energy music maniacs better known as 
heavy metal musicians. Gut-wrenching gui
tars, oppressive drum beats, and screaming 
vocals are typical of the exceptional sound 
that heavy metal rock groups produce. 
From Blue Oyster Cult and Led Zepplin to 
AC/DC, UFO, Van Halen, and Def Lep
pard, one can hear that heavy metal is at the 
core of todays more confusing music styles.
A recent newcomer to the heavy metal 
scene is Chrysalis. recording ardst, The 
Michel Schenker Group. Michel 
Schenker, the fantastic guitarist whose solos 
graced UFO up to their Obsession album 
and the Scorpions on their Lovedrive LP, 
has generated his own album of hard-core 
heavy metal.
The album, produced by ex-bassist for 
Deep Purple Roger Glover, does not demon
strate the best in sound quality. Neverthe
less, the group compensates for this 
inadequacy with their driving and precise 
rock performance throughout the album. 
Schenker is responsible for all of the albums 
guitarwork, Don Airey is on keyboards, 
with newcomers Simon Phillips on drums, 
Mo Foster on bass, and Gary Barden on 
vocals. They have basically put together an 
album to bang your head to.
It is nice to see that Schenker has finally 
gotten a chance to play all of the guitars 
instead of drifting in and out with solos as 
he did with UFO and the Scorpions. Two 
instrumental tracks of the album, Bijou 
Pleasurette and Into the Arena show the 
remarkable versatility that Schenker has in 
producing every sound imaginable through 
the torturing of his amplifiers.
The song, Cry For The Nations begins 
with a few measures of reggae-rock which 
eventually climaxes into electronic explo-Ready to teach nursing,first aid, parenting, child care, water safety,CPR.Red Cross: Ready for a new century
sions. Schenker shows unbelievable talent at 
handling both rhythm and lead guitar spots 
in Armed and Ready and Feels Like a 
Good Thing, the supreme tracks of heavy 
metal that are included on the album, and in 
an incredible 7 minute Rush-like epic Lost 
Horizons.
The album is more than just a test of the 
power handling capacities of your speakers 
or amplifiers. The Michel Schenker 
Groups debut album treads the fine line 
between melodic versatility and traditional 
heavy metal standards resulting in a veryexotic sound. It is a treat to the heavy metal 
fans turntable as well as his ears; and per
haps an enlightenment as to what rock and 
roll should be to those who have followed 
commercial musical trends and have thus 
failed to hear the extent of contemporary 
heavy metal development.
Shrinking woman
continued From page 16
acclaimed Ringy Dingy, Ernestine from 
Laugh-In. This is Tomlins only success as 
a comic character or actress for that matter, 
in the entire movie.
The plot is dull, tedious, and taxes the 
viewers attendon span. Grodins character 
goes over like a lead balloon that lands in 
your lap and just stays there. Ned Beatty as 
Grodins boss is simply irritating. He does 
nothing but add to the boredom and 
increase the size of your yawn. Tomlin has 
three opportunities in the flick to demon
strate her talent, and lets two slip through 
her fingers. Her shrunken housewife is tiresome, her tacky friend with the BraidEasy is awful, but the telephne operator 
offers some small compensation. Ernestine 
is her only effective and humorous portrayal 
in the entire movie.
All in all, The Incredible Shrinking 
Woman shrunk and stunk.
Rivals
continued from page 13
land for whatever the latest reason is, and all 
the men annoyed with each other because of 
Lydia.
However this confusion sorts itself out 
and everyone is happily paired off. The 
Rivals is a very humorous and entertaining 
play that should not be missed.
MORE PASSIONS FOR THE PASSION PARTY
W.Wiggins-not AngelH.Olds-manical mustacheG.Post-secret admirer
James C. WrightC.OConner-twig figureChris Pike
K.Williams-pretty eyesToni ZulianiR.Patrick
Burt WicksZeynoGary Petrosky
Nora W.A.Zaslove-his flaskPammie Jo
Girls at CMIIMike ZellhartThe Prince
Grapefruit-Vitamin CGZimmermanJane Pate Jr.
Mike Connors-eroticismPUFF-his loveLaura Patinkin
Rich ConnorsJ.Palmer-jockey shornPete (Shorty)-his height
George Cassidy-graffittiLisa FedorisElane Prince-cheeks
Sybil CoffeyLaura FordingChris Pappas-he knows Rosey
John Cooper-studlinessMonica FarrellPatti-daily molecules
EEs-software toolsL.Feinberg-homeworkPlaninko-playing Doctor
87Laura FrissoraMark P.-sweat pants
Rindi Gul EronJ.Fisk-being the bossPamela Pitt-passion
Laurie ElmB.Fanica-scrod dinnersPoe-curly tail
Girls on 5-CJ. FitzgeraldB.Pelligrino-his smile
Ervin-meCraig Falci-kneesDeborah-Lynn Plaut
Laura EvansAnthony FisberGuy Pollice
Marty F.-guitarFuzzy-cute little smileMike Panno-his nose
Alison EichmannSteve FarrellPaw
EPP JeffRon FreidmanRoberta Picard
K. Elmer 8c B.D.McCalvin FreemanPolice dog
Erika-face and bodyTom FoxPree-loving ways
Eli-green bongSandi FogelsonPooch-his beak
Edweird-large eggBarb Fritts-her 3Pika-their 52 hostages
Ella-her styleFather John W.Art-brings food from home
Eugenes friendBob FlahertyArt Students
Eugenes other friendBrian F.-nostril hairsJ.Adema-smile
An excitable boyFerg-hes coolAnita-stacked high
WE ASK A LOT OF YOU.
College is over. There's a degree in your hand Now what? Start your career rolling by attending Air Force Officer Training School. Complete this three-month program and you open the door to one of the finest opportunities available anywhere to college graduates today. If you've got what it takes, we can offer a challenging and rewarding career with all the respect and prestige of a commissioned officer The starting salary is good and if you meet special qualifications, you may even have an opportunity to go to graduate school at little or no cost to you. You can also have 30 days of vacation with pay each year, complete medical and dental care, and low cost life insurance Find out today how the Air Force can help you get your career rolling. Do it for your country and yourself. Contact
Fred Alley or Jim Gallogly 
644-2704
FMUME
A great way of ltfes>
Looking for?
work space, 
painting space, 
or 
photo space
Room available with 
high ceiling and large window 
Call Mike 781-6827
RcpuMcsteelAt Republic Steel, were building a super team.And you could be one of our high draft choices-fora super career in steel.
We will interview on March 5
an equal opportunity employer"RqiHblicstee

---------------------------------------------------

What a jungle!
The competition is fierce.
The technology is high-powered.
The IC applications are critical.
It takes a leader to stay ahead of the 
packit takes Harris Semiconductor.
We've made our way to the forefront 
of the highly-competitive IC industry 
through a winning combination of innova
tive technology, talented and dedicated 
personnel, demanding production stan
dards, and aggressive marketing.
Our enviable record of growth 
includes sales that have soared 55.5% (to 
$148 million) and net income that has risen 
70.3% (to $18.9 million) in the past year.
And the stage is set for our $250 million, 
five-building complex which is expected to 
double our Semiconductor manufacturing 
capacity by 1983.
T  -f* -Right now, Harris Semiconductor 
is on the prowl for college graduates in 
Electrical and Chemical Engineering, 
Physics, Materials Science, Chemistry, 
and Computer Science.
You'll make your way to the top. 
Through a dual opportunity career program 
that lets you follow the state-of-the-art 
technical or management path. (And you'll 
probably make your way to the beach a lot, 
since we're headquartered in Melbourne, 
on Florida's Atlantic Coast.)
If you're unable to schedule a campus 
interview, write to Bill Hyland, Harris 
Semiconductor, College Relations Super
visor, RO. Box 883, Dept. CNA, Melbourne, 
Florida 32901. (Openings also exist in 
our San Francisco and Poughkeepsie,
New York facilities.)
INTERVIEW DATE:MONDAY, FEBRUARY 23,1981.
SEMICONDUCTOR GROUP
THE TIGER STANDS ALONE,
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/V/H
THERE'S A TIGER LOOSE IN FLORIDA.

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1981The TartanPage 19
[ts that rime of year again
'ishes from secret (and not so secret) admirers...
lura, Love of my life: KISS ME! KISS 
IE!!! Love always, Paul
ie girl that works in the LanguageLab on 
rursday nights; Youre cute. An admirer
ir LindaHeres to our constant battles 
md exciting major. Also to your pains and 
iy male problems. Love, Susan
To the families of the hostages: If you get 
your assets over here, you can have them 
jck. The Commandos
ir Al, Its one of those undefinable
things! Love, Phenomenal
To George, Shall we begin!!! Love, Linda
Margaret, Be my Valentine and Ill give you 
la massage youll never forget. J.W.
Honey, you are my shining star now and 
forever, even. Happy Valentines Dayloveyour baby.
;here Jean, Jaime beaucoup detre avec tu. 
Tu est facile a parle, romantique, et
imusant
|Dear S.A., Thanks for being there. Youre 
)ne hell of a sweet guy! Love, The other S.A.
[Valentines Chris and Mike-I love eating 
[worms, playing fooseball and being pinned 
down on a bed with you two!
[Laura and Jackie-tarding out in the schizo 
[position is great fun! Our pigza pignics are 
! piggylicken good too!
|Dear-Robby-Bobby-Doll,I love you cause 
[You are cuddlewee, Ginky-Doll
G-To the man whose unique sounds whet 
[my appetite, Happy Valentines Day. Love,
fi
[To Bob, Lust, like, and love, All three add 
[up to you! Happy Valentines Day! Love ya 
[lots! Randi
IMy Dearest Al, Happy Valentines Day to 
jone I will always love-Rich
[Spongey, Forever and ever means after 
ICMU. Always yours, BJ
[Happy Valentines Day to sorors of Delta 
Sigma Theta sorority. From Ms. Vee.
BJ: Amadeus, Footlights, Wax Beans, 
[Tomato Soup, Eggplant, Burgundy, Can
dles, Popcorn, Hugs, Kisses...YOURE 
NUTS, I love you HL
Margaret, You sexy woman with those 
(lovely feet. Please be my Valentine. J.W.
MI835, Happy Valentines Day to an older 
but wiser Capricorn. See you at Mt. W?
1:15:59+2
To Mike, my favorite swimmer. Be mine. 
Love, SA
Dave, Thanks for being the sweetest Valen
tine I could ever ask for. Love ya always, 
Celeste
Chip, Will you be our Valentine? Love, 
Cynthia, Julie, Kathy
Leslie B.-Happy Valentines Day! (this is a 
generic Valentine) Love, Anne F.
Dear Koty, Lots of love on Valentines 
Day!! Sue
Happy Valentines Day Kelly, youre a very 
special person. Thanks for making me 
smile. Chuck
To: 5-C Hauoli la Walenkino!! Lia
Dear Wild Fire, Ill be over for breakfast... 
Love, Free Spirit
Dear McDougalAlways remember Keep 
your chin up and reach for the bananas! 
(especially in bathrooms.) Love you littleSus
Dear RoomieHeres to J.B., coke, late 
hours, and talking in my sleep. May this 
semester be as exciting! Parker
To FutheyYou may be the great pretender 
but someday, kiddo. Heres to cocaine after
noons and clinging to guitars! Love, the 
Short Kid
Irene So what were the chances? Id have 
guessed none. Sure glad I was wrong, 
because God, this is fun!
Passion Party This Friday
by Kathy Krummert
Come find your passion partnerHow could anyone pass by an offer like 
that? Its extended to everyone by the COM
MON GROUNDS people this Friday for 
the second annual Passion Party.
From 9:30 PM to 1:00 AM, AB, Residence 
Life, and SDC want you to fulfill your 
wildest fantasies. Go ahead, ask that person 
to dance that youve been dying to meet. 
Front Page, a classy band thats been play
ing the Pittsburgh nightclub circuit, will 
provide the music. If you just cant find the 
words, maybe youll get some ideas from the 
Best Pick-Up Line contest. If youre really 
tongue-tied, maybe you need to try a litde
heavy breathingthere will be a contest for 
that too.
Erotic gifts (hmmm...such ambiguity) 
will be awarded to the winners of the two 
contests. If your name appears in todays ad, 
you can find out at the party what your 
finest attribute is....(Karen, someone thinks 
yours is Mmmm...sugarlips; and Dave M. 
his red shimmied robe. And Bemie L. must 
tell great fantasy stories.)
Not all of the passionate peoples names 
could fit in the adyoull just have to wait 
until Friday to find out what your attribute 
is.
Oh, in case youve forgottenFriday is 
the 13th. You might get lucky.
Bert, Bill, Brad, Chuck, Ed B.,Ed J.,Fred, 
Gib, Greg, Jamie, Joe, Kirk, Koty, Larry, 
Mike, Shawn-Love, Anne
Dave, If I give you a dollar, would you be my 
Valentine? Cellita
To C2,D1,D3-Happy Valentines Day! 
S.D.C. Chuck
Sweet, Darling Laurie, Roses are red, Violets 
are blue, I cant think of anything, Anything 
but you! Love, Cool Fred
You know who, Ive always been a sucker 
for chubby lower lips. Love, G.S.M
Goose, You are (ah) so cute. Even after three 
years of gooseyism. Love always. Goosey
I: Kolekona, Likeke, a Kawika, Ouli hoalohaloha nui, keia hui ana o kaua!!
To Christopher Michael, Lets divorce them 
both!!! Love Jennifer Susan
Karenand DeannaRoses are red and 
theyre here to stay. To both of you guys 
Happy Valentines Day.
Babe, From Scobell, with love. Hunny
To Cindy Meyers Im really not crazy! 
Besides, you love it. Love, Roomie
Happy Valentines Day Donnie. I wish we 
could be together to share it. All my love, 
Patti
Mon Petit Chou, Youll ALWAYS make me 
crazy!!! Avec 1amour, Dougs
Rob, Wonderful to love you/ Wonderful to 
know/ However far you wander,/ There, 
too, my heart will go. Kathy
To the flying circus, Happy Valentines Day 
to the sweetest guys I know.
Dear Steve, Thanks for the formalYu such 
a cutie!!! Love, Linda
Brucie, Happy Love Day to the worlds grea
test husbahd. Thanks for being you. Love, 
the Little Woman
Michele H. I love you! Michael F.
To [EHOE]: I love you more today than 
yesterdayand maybe tomorrow Ill even let 
you hold my hand! [KC15]
Jim, Thank you for being a friend. You will 
always be a special Valentine. Love, Kathy
Crockett: Your toenails are long,/ Your eyes 
are blue/ Things live in your beard/ And I 
love you! Koosie
F. Scott, HI, want some more xeroxes; Ill 
show you the originals! Happy Heart Day
To CantrellKeep winking!! LoveYour 
devoted Fan.
To JudyWhen do lessons start? Love, The 
Promise Maker.
Don Juan, Woman cannot live by phone sex 
alone, on hold
Sweetheart, SAGAPOH!!!!! All my love 
always, Skippyonie
To Judy, Linda, Susan, Tracy, You are the 
craziest Bunch of BANANAS I know, and 
Ive known lots??!! Love you, UFSATT
Linda, Lots of love on Valentines Day to 
the worlds greatest little sister.
Suzanna-1 know Im a st but I miss you. L 
I Lover
To: Sandy R., Ts and As wont get you far 
unless their yours! Love, Fred
To-Susan P., Dont worry, youve always 
got your pals. We love you, and besides, 
theyre all W.D.s. Love, Brauney
Happy Valentines Day to the brothers of 
ZBT. Love Sondra and Deanna
Dear Candy, Youre so sweet!! Love, your 
S.A.
Dianeto the most wonderful girl I know. 
Im not excitable, but Im a boy. -Most 
wonderful boy.
KateBe our valentine. Love the Sisterhood 
-DC.
Vector Woman, I love you soooooo much! 
Vector Man
1981 Housing Information
Who: Students presently living on campus
who want to reserve space in the 
dormitories for the fall of 1981.
I What: Need to pay a $100 deposit.
I Where: Cashier's Office-Warner Hall 
Concourse.
When: Monday, Feb. 2-Thursday, Feb. 19,
1981 (closed Sat. and Sun.)
Fall 1981 Housing Deposit 
Deadline 4:00 PM Thursday, Feb. 19
    
 
     I I I         .v.v.v.v.v
 a
^L.-W.V.V.V.ViV.V.1
Sts I Loi/r you I
lorrM---------
T heNwsparo CARtrS
. WRAP 
' 'BOOKS' Tcm, LOVERS
 valeajtkve. motes; 
NcrTZPAPm ( ewcdn
GIZTf fop. L-eve&i
cm
 
V
I  II3
 
V  !f tellskSlochmv
1"IJni   I I
> a
\   m mmm~mJmmBawmmmmmMmmmmmm\
    *4

---------------------------------------------------

> ' '
have the 
technology, 
the products, and the 
resources to maintain
S'## W semiconductor industry is the heart of a
|||| technological revolution that promises
   # ^ B fundamental changes in the way we work and
live. Fairchild is committed to a leadership position in the development 
WwtW^&m W% of products and processes that will make that promise a reality.
 You can help determine the direction. Fairchild offers outstanding career
opportunities for Electrical Engineers in the following areas: Integrated 
Circuit Design; ProcessFabrication of Semiconductor Devices; Product 
EngineerCoordination, Design through Manufacturing; Reliability and
Quality Assurance; and Product Marketing.
THE SEMICONDUCTOR PRODUCTS GROUP will be conducting campus 
interviews on the date shown below. Please contact your placement 
office for an appointment or for further information.
Doug Beaubein 
Product Engineering Manager.
Bipolar LSI 
Mountain View. California
B.S.E.E.. UC Santa Barbara. 1970 
M.S.E.E.. UC Santa Barbara. 1972 
M.B.A., UCLA. 1974
Coming February 16 and 17
Semiconductor Products Group 
Automatic Test Equipment G 
Advanced Technology Group
I p Q g I Automatic Test Equipment Group
A Schlumberger Company
Fairchild is proud of its record as an affirmative action employer and 
we encourage women, members of minority groups, and handicapped 
to apply.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports.
Tartans split a pair but stay in conference lead 71
by Denny Postufka
The Tartans came away with a split last 
week in PAC action, but they still remain in 
first place in their quest for the PAC crown.
They were dealt their first loss in league play 
at home last Wednesday when second place 
Bethany held on for a 58-57 win. CMU then 
went to Cleveland on Saturday and came 
home winners over Case Western by a score 
of 52-50 in overtime. The Tartans now post 
a 7-1 PAC mark while their overall record 
stand at 9-7-
The Tartans knew they would have their 
hands full with Bethany, who were 4-2 
coming into the game and bringing back 
four of five starters from a team that defeated 
CMU twice a year ago. The Bisons stayed 
right with the Tartans in the first half, 
which is unusual for the Tartans at home 
who usually jump out to a big lead in the 
beginning minutes.
After taking a 29-26 lead into the locker 
room at intermission, CMU came out firing 
in the second half and built their lead to as 
many as nine about midway through the 
period. Unfortunately, the Tartans then hit 
a cold spell at the same time Bethany 
seemingly couldnt miss. The Bisons came 
back to tie it up 48-48 with about four
minutes remaining and it was a close fought , . ..uuuKLiingame down to the wire Pete Bennett leads CMU defense against Bethany at last Wednesday s win.
TOTALS 26-64 6-15 58 TOTALS 21-50 10-13 52
The pace was equally slow in the second 
half and neither team could build a lead of 
more than four points. With five minutes 
showing on the clock and the score tied, 
Case went into the four comer delay offense, 
but it backfired when Kevin Cherry missed 
on a 25-foot jumper. Next, the Tartans went 
into the four comers and turned the ball 
back over to Case. It looked like no one 
wanted the win. Finally, with less than 20 
seconds left and the score at 44-44, Case 
controlled the ball and held for the last shot. 
Ken Jackson drove toward the hoop and 
missed the shot at the buzzer, so we were
back again with 20 seconds remaining and 
once again waited for the last shot. 
However, this time the Tartan defense 
wouldnt give an inch, so Joe Teffner of 
Case was forced to throw a 30-footer to the 
buzzer which fell short and enabled the 
Tartans to win it remaining one game 
ahead of Bethany.
Carl Mulac led the scoring with 15 points, 
followed by Donahoe with 14, and Joe 
Belechak with 12.
PAC STANDINGS
looking at overtime.CMU710.875
With less than a minute remaining inBethany62.750
over time, Carl Mulac hit a layup for CMUAllegheny53.625
and was fouled. He connected the freethrowWash-Jeff44.500
and the Tartans led by four, 52-48. It stillCase Reserve44.500
wasnt over though because the SpartansJohn Carroll35.375
came right back and threw in a 20-footer toHiram35.375
bring it back to within two. Case got the ballThiel08.000
Tartan teams in action this week
Tue. Feb. 10 WOMENS BASKETBALL CMU vs.Carlow(H)7 PM
Wed. Feb. 11 MENS BASKETBALLCMU vs.Thiel(H)8 PM
Fri. Feb. 13 HOCKEYCMU vs.Gannon(A)IBA
Sat. Feb 14 MENS BASKETBALLCMU vs.Allegheny(H)2 PM
WOMEN S BASKETBALL CMU vs.St. Francis(A)2 PM
Sun. Feb. 15 FENCINGIntercollegiate(H)10 AM
Case Western FG-FGAFT-FT APTS
Tsispis1-40-02
Carter5-904)10
Tiber2-41-25
Jackson4-125-613
Teffner4-90-08
Cherry2-80-04
Layton0-00-00
Griffin3-80-06
Kolk1-6002
Arnold0-104)0
TOTALS22-616-850
CMU FG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Mulac7-81-215
Hobart3-93-49
Hofmeister0-72-22
Belechak4-124-512
Donahoe7-100-014
Bennett0-10-00
Lewis0-20-00
TOTALS26-5413-1665
BethanyFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Paige7-154-618
Vogel huber8-170-216
Winovich2-40-04
Gongola3-110-06
Monahan0-20-20
Fenton2-31-35
Ferns0-40-00
Lipperman4-81-29
CMUFG-FGAFT-FTAPTS
Mulac0-33-53
Hobart9-180-018
Hofmeister10-142-322
Belechak4-120-08
Donahoe3-90-06
Bennett0-10-00
With litde over a minute left, Bethany 
went up by four and could have really taken 
over had it not been for their poor free throw 
shooting. The Bisons connected on only six 
of fifteen from the charity stripe for the 
game. With only five seconds left, Carl 
Mulac was fouled after coming up with the 
loose ball on a missed free throw by 
Bethany. Mulac went to the line to shoot 
one and one. He missed on the first one and 
after he finished the score stood at 58-57, 
Bethany on top.
One bright spot for the Tartans was Dave 
Hofmeister, who pumped in 22 points and 
pulled down fourteen rebounds. Buddy 
Hobart had his best PAC game of the year 
with 18 tallies. Hofmeister and Hobart are 
both ranked in the top ten in the conference 
in field goal percentage.
Saturdays game with Case Western was 
quite bizarre as it appeared both teams were 
saying, No, I dont w'ant the win, you take 
it. Both teams shot very poorly, CMU 
hitting on 42% from the field, w'hile Case 
only shot 36%. Hofmeister, our leading 
scorer in PAC play, was held in check by the 
Spartans with only two points, although he 
did manage to grab ten rebounds to remain 
on top in the conference rebound race.
The Plaid trailed at halftime, after a low 
scoring first period, by a score of 20-18. The 
only Tartan putting the ball in was Danny 
Donahoe, who had ten points at the half.Danny Donahoe goes around to the hoop.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanFebruary 10, 1981
CMU women fall twice, 
and dumped to 23
by Bob Share
The CMU Womens Basketball team fell 
twice to Pennwood West Conference oppo
nents this past week. Wednesday night the 
Tartans suffered a 61 -50 setback to Washing
ton and Jefferson at Skibo Gym, and Friday 
the women dropped a 80-70 decision at Carlow. The Tartans record now stands at 2-3 
in the PWC.
Despite the loss to W 8c J, Coach Gene 
Klein had nothing but praise for the squad. 
We gave them a good game. We played
very well defensively, and we never quit. 
commented the coach. Indeed, the Tartans 
never did give up. Down by 21 points, they 
outscored the First Ladies 12-2 over the final 
four minutes of the game. Lorraine Stypula 
led the CMU attack with 16 points, while 
Kassie Segmiller and Debbie Durr chipped
by Randy Condon and Laurie Southom
The Tartan swimmers went 1-1 this week. 
They crushed Duquesne last Tuesday 62-52, 
but lost 70-40 on Saturday to Case Western. 
The swim team now stands 2-2 in the PAC.
At Duquesne, CMU won easily and 
captured almost every event. The story was 
different at the Case Western meet. 
Although many Tartan swimmers achieved 
best times, Cases surprising depth and 
strength came out on top. Jim Matysek was
in with ten apiece. Maybe with a few breaks 
we could have won it, added Klein.
Free throws were the key of the Carlow 
game. Carlow hit on 20 of 24 attempts from 
the charity stripe, while the Tartans could 
only connect on four of fourteen chances. 
Despite the poor shooting performance, the 
Plaid came within four points of Carlow on 
three different occasions in the second half, 
but a series of Carlow free throws late in the 
game put the contest out of reach. Once 
again Lorraine Stypula led the Tartans in 
scoring with eighteen points.
The womens squad returns to the court 
Tuesday for a rematch with Carlow at Skibo 
Gym. The tipoff is scheduled for 7:00 PM. 
The Tartans travel to St. Francis Saturday 
for a game beginning at 2 PM.
the outstanding swimmer of the meet for 
CMU. He won handily in the 1000 yd. 
freestyle, 500 yd. freestyle, and the 200 yd. 
breaststroke. Nick Watts and Randy 
Condon hit their best times in the 200 yd. 
freestyle and 200 yd. individual medley 
respectively.
The Tartans face their bitter rival, 
Washington 8c Jefferson, at home this 
Saturday at 2:00 p.m.
Lorraine Stypula puts one up against W8cJ.
A split week
by Steve Machemis
The CMU Hockey Club went to Beaver, 
PA, last Wednesday night and brought back 
a much-needed win as they beat Slippery 
Rock 4-2. The game was dominated by 
freshman Rick Samuelsens hat trick.
In the first period, the Tartans took the 
lead quickly as Samuelsen put the puck in 
the goal twice off passes by captain Jeff Reh 
and left-winger Mark Licata. Then Mike 
Panno sent a shot past the Rocks goaltender 
to make it 3-0, putting the game out of reach 
for the opponents.
Slippery Rock threatened the Tartans by 
putting in two goals in the second period, 
but couldnt muster any further offense for
photo by Doug Ellis
the rest of the game. Rick Samuelsen scored 
his third goal of the night in the final period 
to add to CMUs vicory.
In a well-played Saturday afternoon 
contest, Point Park beat CMU 3-1, with 
much help from their outstanding 
goaltender who constantly denied the 
Tartans a tally. Samuelsen scored the 
Tartans only goal on a breakaway after 
receiving a perfect feed from defenseman 
Jeff Gotman.
The Tartans travel to Erie this Friday 
night to play a game against Gannon 
College, as they continue to battle their way 
to the playoffs.
Hockey Club up & down
Swimmers damn Duquesne 
but lose big to Case
Announcing the campus discount:
10% off...
mi all TI consumer products at the Texas 
Instruments retail store?
Texas Instruments calculators, watches 
learning aidseven the TI-99/4 Home 
Computerjust show us your valid univer
sity ID and get a 10% discount on just 
about everything in the store*! This offer 
is good through June 10,1981.
TI Programmable 59 
calculator
Discount available to students and faculty.
Special sale items are excluded from this offer.
Visit the Texas Instruments 
retail storewhere all 
of TVs consumer products 
and accessories are available.
eingB lvB.mtwiv.B
Retail Store
Century III Mall  655-3700
Texas instruments retail stores are operated by Texas Instruments Supply Compwy, a subsidiary of Texas Instruments Incorporated 
I Texas tostranems Supply Company 1737;
WRITER & ARTISTS
OPPORTUNITY FOR 
LOCAL PUBLICATION
OAKLAND REVIEW
Literary magazine of the Camegie-Mellon Community, is now 
soliciting submissions of poetry, short fiction, black and white 
artwork, and one-art plays for its 1981 issue. Submissions should 
be placed in the Oakland Review mailbox ,at the Skibo 
Informadon Desk, and for non-campus addresses, should be 
accompanied by a self-addressed, stamped envelope. Deadline for 
submissions is February 27.
1980 issue available at CMU and other local bookstores.
Supported by Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1981The TartanPage 23
Intramural sports report: From basketball to bridge
by Leslie Weiser
Intramural basketball stats are shaping 
ip In the majors, Nite Train Express has a 
light edge over the rest of the league. In the 
ntermediate league, D-Force is out in front 
nd the Speedies are ahead in the minors. 
Womens teams should pick up their playng schedules in room 104 Gym. Officials 
or all games must remember to note the 
vinning team on the score sheet they sign. 
Another reminder that teams with games
heduled for Wednesday, February 18, will 
jlay on Tuesday, February 17, instead. The 
-ames are still to be played on the same 
cheduled courts and at the same times 
hough.
The commissioners for basketball are as 
ollows: Rocky Cersosimo, phone 578-4613, 
nd Wes Seeley, phone 687-0843, for the 
najor league; Lou Oliver, phone 578-4512, 
or intermediates; Anthony Jones, phone 
>78-4694, for the minor league; and Rocky 
Cersosimo, phone 578-4613, for the 
womens league.
All backgammon games should be finish
ing up. Please turn in the match results to 
Debbie Cohen, phone 578-5943.
Players in handball should check the IM 
bulletin board for playing schedules and 
dmes. The commissioner is Mr. Birdy, 
phone 578-2214.
Bridge matches will begin this week. 
Please pick up the schedules in the IM office. 
[The commissioner is Eric Theis, phone 682- 
9580.
The weightlifting contests are also begin
ning this week. Contact commissioner Ken 
Murawski, phone 578-4666, for details.
Allfoiled up 
with Cal State
by Robin Lucas
The CMU fencing team hosted an all-foil 
meet last Saturday with California State. 
The Tartans A and B mens team defeated 
both the A and B mens teams from Cal 
State. Undefeated for the day were Eric Toft 
and Scott Rose. The womens foil team lost 
to Cal States more experienced womens A 
team but came back to beat their B team at 9 
to 0.
Fencing foil for the day under coach Jane
Fisk were:
Womens foil  Robin Lucas (co
captain), Beth Brannick, Karen Schultz.
Mens foil  Kris Scigliano (co-captain). 
Jay Michaels, James Marshall, Eric Toft, 
Scott Rose, Bob Aarhus, Darren Shaw, Mike 
Cramer, Mike Prescott.
Team wrestling practice sessions will be 
held Monday, Wednesday, and Friday from 
4:00 to 5:00 PM in Thistle Hall. Each 
wrestler must attend the practice sessions. 
The commissioners are Jeff Luce, phone 
683-1699, and William Gens, phone 578- 
4452.
This week the water basketball games 
also start. Please check the IM bulletin board 
for practice times and game schedules, or 
contact commissioner Gary Petrosky, 
phone 578-4005.
The table tennis commissioner is Glen 
Rosenthal, phone 682-9166 or 683-3864. A 
commissioner is still needed for team call 
pool though.
Entries are due February 19 in individual 
call pool, co-rec badminton, co-rec table ten
nis, and foul shooting.
Intramural Night is coming up on Fri
day, March 13. There will be trophies given 
for each IM sport. The next intramural 
board meeting is Thursday, February 19, at 
12:30 PM in the IM office.
BIRD W
Nite Train Express 4
Lucifer 3
Smooth As Silk 3
Icemen 3
Losers III 3
Jetsons 2
Phi Kappa Theta 2
SAEA 1
ATO 0
MINORS
INTERMEDIATES
EAST W
Johnson 8c Johnson 4
Tar Hells 3
NORTH W
DForce 5
Buckateers 4
Schippers Shooters 4
Off 3
K.S. 2
Turning Machine 2
Knights 1
The Cage 1
Sinofonians 1
Raiders 0
WEST W
The Kids 4
SUPA Stars 4
Kool 8c The Gang 3
Zoo 3
GSIA Hoop Dietics 2
ZBT 1
Knicks 1
PIKAB 0
Machine * 0
SAEB 0
Cones 8c Co. 0
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUD
SCHMIOTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE - WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
8ALLANTINE ALE 
MICHEL0B REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 OIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB. M0LS0N ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS ANO SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oi. 6 pk featured each week
SCHLITZ * PABST 
SCHUTZ MALT ' STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOGS - CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONOIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
m
^Originalksp HCT DOG
* BECKS LIGNT OR DARK 
Germany
* CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmark
* OORT HANSA Germany
* H0FBRAU Germany
* FISCHER GOLO France
* HOLSTEN LAGER Germany
* ST PAULI GIRL Germany
* SPATEN Germany
 RIGNES SPECIAL Norway 
' SWAN LAGER Australia
* BASS ALE England
' MAC KESON STOUT 
England 
' lOWENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England 
- PILSNER UROUELL 
Czechoslovakia 
' RIGNES Norway
* OOS EQUIS Meiico
* PER ONI Italy
* GUINESS STOUT Ireland
* GR01SCHE Holland 
 GOSSER Austria
* SAN MIGUEL PlMllptnss
* KIRIN Japan
 M0LS0N ALE Canada
* KRAKUS Poland
* HEINEKEN IT & OK Holland 
 FOSTER S LAGER Australia
ANO MANY OTHERS
SOUTH
Fightin Irish 
Theta Xi
W
Civil Hammers 
Smart Guys 
Wild Bunch 
PKTB 
SUPA Men 
Day Care Center 
Devine NWE
WL
0
0
1
1
2
3
2
3
L
0
0
MAJORS
ACC
Nads
Eagles
Renegades
Mixed Bag
First National Bank
Electric Eels
Rosalita
BIG 8
Speedies 
M8cMs 
Math Dept.
KE Bruisers 
Lambda Sigma Delta 
PHD.
Bio Hazards 
Eta Kappa Nu
W
3
3 
2 
1 
0 
0 
0
W
4 
2 
2 
1 
1 
1 
0 
0
L
0
0
1
2
2
4
5
L
0
0
0
1
0
1
3
3
3
3
4
00G SHOPS. INC 621-7388 or 621 -1185
3001 FORStS AV. (OAKLAND) ROH., RA. 1**13
Colleges off Pittsburgh Presents
James Taylor
& HIS BAND
SAT. FEB. 21 - 7:30 P.M.
Stanley Theatre
Tickets available at Stanley Theatre Box Office 
ALSO available at:
Skibo Desk $12.75
L
0
0
1
12
2
2
3
4
L
0
02
2
1
1
3
L
0
1
1
1
1
2
2
3
Mothership30MARAVICHWL
IGs Idiots23Chillers. .Juco30PAK8WL
Magnum M10Delta Tau Delta32PIKAC30
Jet11Tulsa21Skid Row31
Banditos12Long Shots21Bearded Clams20
Cumberjacks12Wild Bunch22Frenalums11
Hawks13PIKAA22Delta Upsilon11
Grabiznadz03KAPPA SIGA14TX Old Farts13
Camp Woodlawn03Dream Team03Scrubs02
Buster Cherry II04Rastamen03
Tickets by
_ PHONE IT 
765-2266Use VISA or Mestercherge

---------------------------------------------------

wnjcp
AWSWNTOFFICo 'OF THo OFFICE* 
INCHW?G OF NIC*
OFFICES
ASI51MTCHIEFA55IS17wr'VICE
Oncampus:OFCOPIES
PRIVATE-KECTOVITCLOSED_ FOR fi&WATKHOF FI CEL 
VACANTsecFri .eb s20: O.2c
PlRECTOR OF The OFFICE
COPIES
OFFICE
OF.%yf
V.P. IHCHAKe
lp THe Key ro twer x^unv/E
v.p.
/A/ CHAiCrC OF THe*ecun\ie
JASH&OH
MSI StMvT X{fcu7NeSecy
MSUV+tTAwirwrexftnvfsecy
t/nxc urrte 
V.R V-ft
^a. -3
--------D__ Associate ro
flS9$tfar 1 me ASwmA/r fi6ioam\ MfoaATB
aoc,a> I ^
PIRZCTDf^
MIS
COPY
#1DIRecTOR OF THC OFFICE OF 
fMPORlWCE
THISSPAce
AVAILABLE
DIRoCTOR lp ne 
peTFMRTMewr OF UTTLE THfN&S
Asstsn^Jf 
70 THC D of j: p.et*pri(oFFiceAss/s/7wr 
Dt RECTOR
pSTdStlLr
office of the. pensotJ ro5EC Foe. 
SPECIAL FAMOUS .
NAPSOFF/ceop
cotvipuzre
CONFUSION
THe
no-pAsociaate
euevAvm OUT OF OROCR POWNOMOf
LOST ANP AaRE LaSTcopy 
# 7
This is what some big companies mean by a career. Not General Electric.
When you go to work for GE, you won't become just another little box on some huge organization chart.People are important to us at GE.Our many high-technology businesses require people who thrive on the challenge oi working at the forefront oi their iields. People who want the freedom to get a job done.Take our Advanced Microelectronics Operations.We're committed to joining the leaders in the industry, and it takes bright young engineers to dp that.Right now, we're looking for key people to fill positions at our ultra-sophisticated new $100 million GE Microelectronics Center in Research Triangle Park, North Carolina, as well as at our other established facilities.Specific openings exist in Integrated Circuit Design,VLSI Device Structure Design, VLSI Process Development,Integrated Circuit Application Engineering, Integrated System Architecture, and Integrated Circuit Software Design.Technical Recruiters will be on campus Tuesday and Wednesday, February 10-11 to conduct interviews. Contact your campus Placement Office for the exact place/time and to make an appointment. Or, if you want to talk to us right away, call l-(800) 334-8529, or send a resume to GE Microelectronics Center, PO. Box 13049, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27709.
Advanced Mlcioelectroiilcs Operations General Electric Company
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1981The TartanPage 25
H&SS Dean's list honors 3.50 grade point averages
continued from page 11 
Marc Stillman 
David Suda
John Szymanski (PHY)
Robert Talda (PHY)
David Thompson 
Christoper Troianos (C)
Vilma Tury (C)
Matthew Urick (PHY)
John Wicks (M)
Sue Wilkin (M)
Daniel Wood (M)
Nicole Wuthrich (M)
Scott Yost (PHY)
Ofer Zajicek
Eugene Zimmerman (C)
COLLEGE OF HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCES
Seniors 
Melissa Barry 
James Costello 
Thomas Dries 
David Land 
Nana Last 
Judith Marchando
Francis Matten 
Mary Parish 
Diego Pignatelli 
Scott Rose 
Eleanor Schaffner 
Stuart Schlisserman 
Mary J. Schuchman 
Duane Stef fey
Juniors
Claire Bauerle 
Linda Dickerson 
Jennifer Donaldson 
Dana Dunn 
Mary Emery 
Wiliam Greer 
Alice Huber 
David Loiterstein 
Joshua Medvin 
Scott Schaffer 
Thomas J. Smith 
Stephen Steiner
Sophomores
Amy Achre (AMS) 
Robert C. Barrett 
Lauren Bender
James Bost (AMS) 
Warren Brown 
John Cantine 
John Carr (AMS)
Nancy Christie (AMS) 
Cynthia College 
John Ferree
Barbara Fleming (AMS) 
Annette Giovengo 
Cynthia Klaja <AMS) 
Mark T. Knapp 
Geoffrey Lloyd 
Stephen Macy 
Annemarie Moses 
Robert Ouellette 
Lorraine Phalon 
Daniel Polinak 
John Roppo 
Kurt Saunders 
James Suart (AMS)
Freshmen
Alice Alfonsi 
Maria Barbu to 
Philip Bateman 
Randi Bograd (AMS) 
Michael Chabon 
Sybil Crawford (AMS)
Francis Dicesare 
Kelly Doyle 
Lisa Feigen 
David Hess (AMS)
Kenneth Homza (AMS) 
Paul Janaskie (AMS)
Jeffrey Link (AMS) 
Marianne Magister 
Elaine Niece 
Richard Noyes 
Keith Recher 
Denise Richter 
Kathleen Wasch
Next xifeek: AMS Deans List.
Fast Instant Cadi
for your das rings and Jewelry 
faring this ad in and receive 
an extra $5!!!
Rtng oxwaqp 115 Moray Awe. 
Oaklanw S87-4S2B
Man
Its just another day unless you make a phone call
Do nothing, and it will be just like any other 
day. But if you call or stop by the Placement Office to set 
up an appointment, that day will be a very important 
one in your life. The day you find out about your future 
in Colorado Springs with Inmos.
INMOS, a new semiconductor firm, decided 
to build its US headquarters in Colorado Springs 
with views from every window of Pikes Peak and 
the Cheyenne Mountain range. We found the peace 
necessary for contemplation, creativity and invention 
in the pleasure of spectacular natural beauty.
The objective of INMOS is to build a viable 
capability in the semiconductor industry through 
research and discovery. The company is concentrating 
on development of VLSI technology with initial devices 
at a level of complexity of 50,000 to 100,000 transistors 
per chip. INMOS plans to develop a broad range of 
products in the memory and microcomputer areas.
Well show you why INMOS is small enough 
to offer you ample opportunity for rapid advancement, 
yet with our plans for rapid growth, big enough to offer 
the variety and visibility of a large corporation. Well 
describe how youll be given considerable responsibilities 
from the very first day. How youll become immersed in 
every phase of your departments operationfrom the 
birth of an idea to its final implementation. And how 
well provide you with in depth, on-the-job training... 
without making you sit in a classroom to get it. And how 
youll be working and rubbing elbows with some of the
acknowledged geniuses in the electronics field today.
Well tell you how INMOS, unlike many 
other companies, wont weigh you down under layers 
of management - how youll be given the authority to 
make and carry out your own decisions. And well show 
you how your ideas will get the attention they deserve 
and the support they need to make them work.
Theres just one catch. We cant tell you about 
all these thingsincluding our excellent starting salaries 
and complete benefits package-unless you contact the 
Placement Office to make an appointment to meet with 
our technical specialists. And time is running out. So do 
it today... and make it more than just another day.
If your resume is already prepared, rush it to 
us now for early consideration prior to our campus visit, 
or, if you are not available for an appointment Dut 
would like further information write Denny Grady, 
Employment Manager, PO. Box 16000, Colorado 
Springs, Colorado 80935
Honoring human resources in every respect... 
We are an equal opportunity employer.mos
We're building a great company. Together.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanFebruary 10, 1981
More Valentines messages to make your heart throb
In most jobs, at 22 youre at 
the bottom of the ladder.
In the Navy, at 22 you can 
be a leader. After just 16 
weeks of leadership training, 
youre commissioned an 
officer, part of the manage
ment team. And youre given 
the immediate decision
making authority your 
responsibilities demand.
On your first sea tour, youll 
be responsible for the work 
of up to 30 men and the care
of literally millions of dollars 
worth of highly sophisticated 
equipment. Youre a Division 
Officer, so youre in charge.
Its a lot more responsibility 
than most corporations give 
a man of 22. As a Navy Officer, 
you encounter new challenges, 
new tests of your skills, new 
opportunities to advance your 
education. You grow
Dont just take a job. Become 
a Navy Officer and take charge, 
even at 22.
I NAVY OPPORTUNITY I
INFORMATION CENTER 
I P.O. Box 5000, Clifton, NJ 07012 
| ? Im ready to take charge. Ttell me
| about the Navys officer programs. ertZ u s
I Name___________________________________________ I
First (Please Print Last
I Address________________________________________ |
| City___________________State----------------Zip______ |
| Date of Birth________fCollege/Univeriity----------- |
| ^Graduation Date_________OGPA_______________ |
| AMajor/Minor ------------------------------------- ---- |
I Phone Number---------------------------------------------------- |
t Area Code! Bent Time tuCall 
I This is for general recruitment information. You do not have Ik
 to furnish any of the information requested. Of coursa, the  more we know, the more we can help you determine the kinds I 
of Navy jobs for which you qualify JCN2/8 1 I
NAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.
Steve, Thanks for being there, Its nice to 
know that there are still some dependable 
guys around. Love, Susan
Hey Anne, Happy Valentines Day room
mate! Maybe the apple juice jar will come in 
handy?
To the Theta House: Penquin! Love, A Boy
Dougs-Id ask you to be my valentine, but 
we hardly know each other!! Happy V.D., 
mon petite chou.
Roommate-the code word is ORANGE! 
Happy Valentines Day Love, Roommate
Michelle, May all your fantasies come true 
on Valentines Day. Love you always, Kathy
B.J., oh its the laughter we will remember 
whenever we remember the way we were...
love, S.
Happy Valentines Day! 
ever let go! The Woman
Mgt.Be my Valentine! Love to Holyoke. 
Love, Water mellon.
To Sue S., Happy Valentines Day to a 
SWEET Big Sister!
To the residents of Woodlawn, Roselawn, 
Spirit and TechHappy Valentines Day. 
Your R.A.
Men love money. Bears, fish. My bear loves 
honey. My man, to kiss.You can part my 
ears anytime, Whabbit
To Johns Meatmarket Six, We Love You!!! 
And dats no lie teacher! Love, Third Floor 
Noisemakers
Dear Tina and Fran Heres to come in the 
snow and immature CMU guys. Wheres 
Prince Charming? Love Susan
To The Champion HuggerIf you dont 
marry me soon Im going to eat a banana! 
Love always, Cutie
To: K, Were a honey. Love S and M
Sueann I love NY and you. A Mike
Mike H. Thanks for the laughter, the love, 
and the weekend in NY. You are such a 
honey! Love ya, SA
To my favorite Redhead, My 
alone: Or does she????? Love
Mike, I love You very very much. Ever since 
you moved in, my Passion for you has 
grown. Love Todi
To one TAB lover from another, Happy 
Valentines Day! Is there such a thing as 
heart shaped cheesecake?
Michael-Happy Valentines, you 2-year-old 
sweetheart, you! SMK! Love, 3.14

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
a.b.
February 12 
Thursday Film Arts
The Discreet Charm of the Bourgeoisie, directed 
by Luis Buuel and starring Fernando Rey and 
Qelphine Seyrig. One of Bunuels most brilliant 
films, a crystal-clear social comedy of surreal 
shape about a small group of chic, upper-class 
Parisians who spend most of the film trying 
unsuccessfully, to dine together. An Academy 
Award Winner. 6, 8 and 10 in DH2210. $1 with 
CMU ID
February 13 
Friday films
Simon, written by Marshal Brickman (collabora
tor with Woody Allen). Starring Madeline Kahn 
and Alan Arkin in a spoof of modem science.
February 15
Sunday Afternoon at the Movies
Meet Me in St. Louis. By integrating story and 
song, Vincente Minelli, in this, his first major 
film, set the style that became the trademark of 
MGMs postwar musicals. The gende drama coi 
cems the tragedies and triumphs of a middleclass family of three daughters living in 
turn-of-the century St. Louis. The film spans the 
summer, autumn, and winter of one eventful 
year, during which the familys secure existence 
is threatened by the awful possibility of moving 
to New York. Meanwhile Judy Garland falls in 
love with the boy next door to Hugh Martin/Ralph Blane songs like Have Yourself a Merry 
Little Christmas and the Trolley Song. 
Minellis unqualified optimism, a spirit he car
ried with him through all of his musicals, 
remains infectious and heartwarming in this 
lyric evocation of bygone days. 2 p.m. in DH2210 
$1 with CMU ID
theater
Through February 15 
Terra Nova
Pittsburgh Public Theatres third mainstage 
production this season is a new play by corn 
temporary American playwright Ted Tally. 
The story of the race between a Norwegian 
and an Englishman to be the first to set foot on 
the South Pole. Directed and designed by
February 5 through 15 
The Rivals
Point Park Theatre Company presents Sheri
dans classic play featuring the intimidible 
Mrs. Malaprop will run for two weeks at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse in Oakland. Thrusday 
through Sunday at 8 p.m. Tickets are $4 and 
$3. 621-4445 for tickets and information 
Gallery 407, 407 South Craig Street. Gallery 
Hours are Tuesday through Saturday, 10 to 5 
p.m. and Sunday, 1 to 5 p.m.
APTKT
ENGINEERING 
DRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355*0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS INC. 
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )
February 14 through March 8 
Under Milk Wood
Metro presents Dylan 'Thomass only stage work 
at the Lion Walk Performing Arts Center. Fea
tured in the cast are CMU alumni Michael Cook 
and Susan Chapek. The hilarious and tender 
account of a small Welsh town in the spring. 
Thursday, Friday and Saturday at 8 p.m. and 
Sunday at 2 p.m. Reservations may be made by 
calling 683-3993
Adjunct professor Tim Cunningham will show 
a wooden rocking ram for children. The entire 
design faculty will be represented by recent 
works.
Ellis Gallery
In The College of Fine Arts. Gallery Hours are 
Monday through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
February 9 through 13 - Leslie Nieman 
February 16 through 20 Matt Wribicanart
Hewlett Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts opposite the box 
office. Gallery hours are 10 AM to 4 PM, Monday 
through Saturday, and during Kresge Theatre 
performances.
Through February 19 
Design Department Show
Department head Joseph Ballays 16 foot canoe 
is the featured piece. The boat of fiberglass skins 
over a cedar core boast an original hull design.
film
Heroes, starring Henry Winkler and Sally Field 
in the story of Vietnam veterans escapades with a 
confused young woman. 6, 8, 10 and 12 in 
DH2210 $.50
Carnegie Institute Film Series
February 10
Directors series: George Kuchar
The Devils Cleavage, a dark comedy that paro
dies the melodramas that Hollywood spewed out 
in the Fifties. 8 p.m. in the Museum of Art Thea
tre. $2
February 12
Films from the Museum Collection: Abstract
A variety of abstract from the first three decades 
of the American avant-garde. 8 p.m. in the 
Museum of Art Theatre. Free
Pittsburgh Film-Makers
205 Oakland Avenue. 681-5449 
February 13 and 14
JAccuse by Abel Gance, an early film pioneer 
whos work was very influential in Europe, the 
Soviet Union and around the world. 8 and 10 
p.m. Admission is $2
February 15
The Treasure of the Sierra Madre, (1948) by John 
Huston. Starring Humphrey Bogart and Walter 
Houston. 2 and 4 p.m. Admission is $2Schlumheiger
... not exactly a Burner.
Electrical/Mechanical Engineers Physics & Geophysics Majors
INTERVIEWS:
MEETING:
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Tuesday, February 17, 1981 
Monday, February 16, 1981 
7 pm, Skibo, Room 45
No, Schlumberger is not a burger. Nor is it 
pronounced burger (pronounced Shlum Bur 
Zha). But, Schlumberger engineers are as 
indispensible to energy production as meat is 
to the hamburger.
Schlumberger is the worlds leading oilfield 
service company. We make precise 
subsurface measurements at wellsites on the 
earths formations surrounding a well bore.
The petroleum industry relies on our 
judgement to continue drilling operations, or 
abandon the well as a dry hole. A decision 
amounting to hundreds of thousands of 
dollars.
Just as meat is the critical ingredient of a 
hamburger, Schlumberger engineers are as 
vital to an energy-hungry world. If you have 
the confidence to accept more authority and
An oqual Opporiuntiy omployer MIf
responsibiity than youve ever had, consider 
joining Schlumberger.
If a rewarding outside job and demanding 
work appeal to you, attend our information 
meeting scheduled for the day before our 
interviews.
Learn about our company and the career 
opportunities we have for you. A brief slide 
presentation about our Field Engineering 
positions will be followed by a questionanswer period. Spouses are invited to come, 
too. If unable to attend, inquire about 
Schlumberger at your Placement Office.
Schlumberger

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
Typing experienced, freelance secretary, will 
type at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
tables, etc. own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
Female graduate student or professional wanted 
to share 2-Bedroom furnished apartment. Own 
bedroom and bath; AC, dishwasher, security, on 
bus line, swimming pool. Prefer non-smoker 
$258, util inc. Call 642-2975.
CASH: WANTED: 10,000 Late Model Wrecks 
and Junkers, Used Cars, Trucks.
Silver Coins Wantedwill pay highest prices. 
Also will buy/trade B.B. cards/comics. After 6 
p.m. call 521-2749.
Lost From Senior BanquefcLong leather coat 
and Keys. Call X5913. REWARD!
Want it done right? Typing, edidng, profession
ally prepared by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Leam to Dance: Six weeks. Classes only $18. 
Touch Dances, Free Styles. Selections: Ballroom 
and Latin, Country and Western, Rock, Disco. 
Holiday House 241-2162.
Moving and light haulingCampus based and 
reasonable. Evenings 687-3062.
Typing: IBM Selectric Symbols: Pica, elite, work 
guaranteed. 734-1331.
Apt for rent, 3 rooms, own bath, location: Oak
land. Security door, laundry, $210 p>er month. 
Utilides not included. Call 621-1233 or 421-5588.
Italian, Spanish, German and English Tutoring
by degreed nauve teachers. For addiuonal info 
call 661-1211.
SEX, DRUGS, AND ROCK AND ROLL! New
design! 100% cotton T-shirt, silk screened black 
on red, (s,m,l) $5.00. ORDER NOW!! Atherly 
Enterprises T P.O. Box 95013 Pgh., PA 15223.
Airline Jobs. For informauon, write Airline Pub
lishing Co. 1516 E. Tropicana 7A-110 Las Vegas, 
Nevada 89109. Include a self-addresses stamped 
envelope.
official
Student Senate has given a written warning to the 
following organizations for not stadng Funded 
by Student Senate on ads placed in the Tartan 
and/or on posters placed about the campus: 
Activities Board: Dance, Acdviues Board: Lec
ture, CMU Hockey , Tartan, Thistle, and 
WRCT.
The Students Dormitory Council meets Wednes
day night at 7 oclock in the Wherrett Room in 
Skibo. Everyone is encouraged to attend and 
participate.
For Appointment Call 363-1460Tftic&aet
Men  Women  Teens 
Specializing in Cutting, Styling, Coloring, 
Permanent Wave, Facials, Waxing
919. Mellon Street Highland Park
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
$2.00 Discount with coupon
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hilly The Bank Center
John Credne, Dean of H&SS> holds open office 
hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 p.m.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Wamer Hall on Tuesday, February'24. 
Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his office, 578-2200, toset up an 
appointment.
WRCT is one sorry station. We forgot to put 
Funded by Student Acdviues Fee on some of 
our advertising. Pittsburghs WRCT; funded by 
Student Activities Fee. Were Sorry. Really.
The Student Senate meets in the Wherret Room 
at 6:30 p.m. every Tuesday night.
The Student Senate has a vacancy for an
MCS undergraduate, an H&SS graduate, an 
AMS undergrad and a CFA grad. Petitions are 
available at Skibo Information Desk and should 
be returned to the Rules Committee Mail box by 
Friday, February 20. Applicants will be reviewed 
at the Student Senate meeting on Tuesday, Feb
ruary 24 at 6:30.
club
The CMU Explorer Clubs winter activities
include ski packing, winter camping, ice climb
ing, day trips and more. A brief meedng is held 
every Thursday at 6:30 in room 11, Skibo. People 
of all levels of experience are welcome. Funded 
by Student Senate.
Join us at AIESEC (an international business 
organization) weekly meetings W7ednesdays at 
4:30 in Skibo Rm. 11. All majors welcome.
Camegie-Mellons Public Speaking Club will be 
meeting Mondays at 6 PM in room 12, Skibo. All 
interested students are urged to attend. For informadon, call x4410, eves; x3842, days.
The CMU SKI CLUB is having its first ski trip of 
tne 1981 winter season. The trip will depart from 
SKIBO parking lot for Snowshoe Mountain, 
West Virginia (elev. 4000 ft.) on Saturday morn
ing, Feb. 21. Tickets are available at the SKIBO 
information desk. For additional information, 
call Mark at 421-8764 after 9 p.m.
EngineersThe student chapter of the Society of 
American Military Engineers will discuss the 
new Light Rail Transit System, scheduled for 
downtown Pittsburgh, on February 17,11:30 AM 
in B3 Margaret Morrison. The guest speaker will 
be Duncan Hughes, from the Port Authority 
Transit.
Spring Carnival There will be a mandatory' meet
ing of all booth chairmen on Monday, Feb. 16 to 
discuss booth design criteria and power, in Skibo, 
room 33.
special
Win a Romandc Evening with your Valentine!
Delta Gamma is raffling off an evening of dinner 
and dancing for two at the Crossgates Inn on 
Saturday, February 14. Tickets may be purchased 
before the drawing on February 12 from any DG, 
or by calling 683-0269. Tickets are $2.50. Proceeds 
go to Delta Gamma Foundation for the Blind.
Angel Flight is a nationally recognized honorary 
social service organization. Many of its funcdons 
are associated with Air-Force ROTC. Members 
of Angel Flight are under no military obligation. 
If you are interested in meeting new people 
through social and service projects or to see 
ROTCs in action without an obligation, you 
might be interested in Angel Flight. Its satisfying 
and its fun. A reception for interested students is 
being held on Thursday, February 12 in the 
Kurtzman Room Student Union on the Pitt 
Campus. Questions? Call 624-3523 or 683-5961.
The European Studies Committee announces a 
prize of $250 for the best essay in the area of 
European studies written by a CMU student in 
academic year 1980-81. Essays will be considered 
on any aspec t of European society and culturearchitecture, business, history, literature, foreign 
affairs and so on.
Essays should be submitted by April 1, to Peter N 
Steams (History). Essays of any length not 
exceeding 50 typescript pages can be considered.
Dr. Gene Wilhelm of Slippery Rock State Col
lege will present a slide and talk show on the 
topic, East Africas Parks and the Ecological 
Impact of Modernization. It will be presented 
Wed., Feb. 11th at 7:30 p.m. at the Sierra Club 
meeting at the Civic Garden Center at Fifth and 
Shady. The public is invited.
 Home for Crippled Children/Rehabilitation 
Institute needs volunteers to work in special edu
cation classrooms (preschool-high school) with 
multiply handicapped children under supervi
sion of teacher. Person must be available at least 
1/2 day a week. If interested contact Barbara 
Clougherty 521-9000, extension 316.
Writers and Artists: Oakland Review, campus 
literary magazine, is seeking submissions of px>etry, short fiction, black and white artwork, and 
one-act plays for the 1981 issue. Submissions can 
be placed in the OR mailbox at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk. Deadline is February 27.
scholarship
Alpha Phi Omega is accepdng applications for
the Kent D. Schaeffer Memorial Scholarship. 
There are $200 scholarships awarded on the basis 
of Leadership, Friendship and Service, the three 
governing principles of A Phi O. Applications 
are available at the Skibo Informauon Desk and 
are due March 12, 1981. Return to A Phi O, Box 
100, Campus Mail.
Tandem Is Coming On-Line
landcm is the lirst computer company dedicated solely to the rapidly 
growing market ol on-line transaction processings. In the last live years 
weve developed a computer system that is uniquely fault-tolerant. I he 
landcm NonStop' system is the first commercially available system that 
operates without failure, without destroying data, and without changing 
software, even when expanding to a distributed data processing network.
Tandem representatives will be conducting scheduled interviews on campus, Tuesday, March 17th.To arrange for an interview, please sign up through the Placement Office.
landcm offers an informal, creative environment for self-directed indi
viduals who desire challenge. Our exceptional work environment includes 
new recreational facilities within our modern corporate headquarters com
plex. located in Cupertino. California. Beyond a full range of insured medi
cal benefits, there is a stock purchase plan, continuing educational assistance 
and a 6 week paid sabbatical alter 4 years in addition to normal vacations.
II you're an Flcctrical Engineer or a Computer Science major about to 
receive a Bachelors ora Master's degree, consider the opportunities that our 
phenomenal growth, profitability and approach to research and develop
ment offers you You may also write to us direct at Tandem Computers, 
Dept. SOO-600. 19333 Vallco Parkway, Cupertino, California 95014. An 
equal opportunity employer.
