The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 52 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA. TUESDAY, APRIL 3, 1945
Coronation Dance Set For 
April 13 in Thistle Hall
Crowning of Senior Queen and Court Featured;
Bernie Armstrongs Orchestra Provides Music
Delts Down Rex, 
Are New Champs
Its all over now but the shout
ing, and the Delta Tau Delta team 
has won the 1945 Intramural Bas
ketball championship. This came 
about last Wednesday evening, 
when they trounced the Rex team 
by a decisive 26-16 tally. In the 
earlier meeting of the two teams, 
the Rex made a much better show
ing, but the Delts came from nine 
points behind at half-time to win 
the closing seconds. The Delts 
strategy, however, overcame the 
Rex advantage of playing on the 
large floor, and led to an easy vic
tory.
The Rex opened the scoring by 
sinking several foul shots. The big 
gold Delt team soon dropped in a 
few field goals to gain a lead which 
was never relinquished. At half 
time, the Delts had amassed a 17-
12 lead, which the Rex managed to 
cut to 18-15 at the end of the third 
quarter. Pouring on the heat in the 
last quarter, the Delts pulled out a 
conclusive victory. The game was 
considerably slowed by the many 
fouls called, 40 in all, and most of 
the players wound up the evening 
by either being ejected or worrying 
under the shadow of four fouls. 
Testimony of the effectiveness of the 
Delts zone defense is given by the 
fact that Rex scored but three field 
goals in the entire game.
Earlier in the week, the Delts en
tered the playoff by smothering 
Cameron Hall, 48-12. The dorm men 
had hoped for an upset, in spite of 
the terrific difference in the com
parative record of the two teams, 
but were quickly disappointed. The 
other game of the week saw Delta 
Upsilon down Theta Tau by 58-36 
in a free-scoring contest.
Inter American Inst. 
Meets for Discussion
The annual Inter-American Insti
tute will be held this year in Pitts
burgh on April 12, 13 and 14. It is 
being sponsored by the Pittsburgh 
Regional Inter-American Center 
and the University of Pittsburgh, 
with the co-operation of the Buhl 
Planetarium and many business or
ganizations, banks, libraries, and 
schools, which are displaying PanAmerican exhibits. The general di
rectors for the program to be held 
are Dr. Robert E. Gregg, of Carne
gie Tech, and Dr. J. Warren Nystrom, of the University of Pitts
burgh.
The Institute will open on Thurs
day, April 12, with a luncheon-meet
ing at the Hotel Schenley sponsored 
by womens clubs of the city. The 
speaker at this meeting will be Mrs. 
Concha Romero James, head of the 
Division of Intellectual Co-operation 
of the Pan-American Union. On 
Thursday evening the Foreign Pol
icy Association will hold a dis
cussion on the Mexican Conference 
and its significance to the Ameri
cans. The leaders of the discussion 
Continued on page 4
Bond and Stamp Goal 
Attained; Drive For 
3rd Ambulance Starts
Totals just received from the War 
Stamp Committee for last weeks 
War Stamp sales show that Car
negie Tech has surpassed itself in 
the ambulance drive. Monday sales 
of stamps and bonds netted enough 
money to assure Carnegie of a sec
ond ambulance plus $870.25 toward 
a third.
The Stamp Committee has so far 
collected $7,730.25. Of this, $1,674 is 
money received from stamp sales, 
and $6,056.25 comes from bonds sold 
in the Bond Queen Contest. The 
Committee feels, in spite of its suc
cess, that the campus as a whole 
showed last week that it is incapa
ble of extending its visin to a higher 
goal. On Wednesday, after the good 
news, which should have made stu
dents buy even more stamps, was 
published in the Tartan, stamp 
sales at the booths were lower than 
they have been during any day since 
the drive opened. Iris Kwall, Chair
man of the Stamp Committee, says 
that many students who have pledg
ed stamps did not buy their quota 
last week apparently because they 
thought one ambulance was all they 
cared to contribute to the war.
The committee needs only $2,- 
559.75 to buy that third ambulance. 
But there are only four more weeks 
of school left for you to buy those 
stamps!
Magazine Announces 
Short Story Contest
Mademoiselle, a leading fashion 
magazine, is now holding its annual 
short story contest for women un
dergraduates.
Entries should be between 1,500 
and 3,500 words in length and suita
ble for publication in Mademoiselle, 
particularly the College Issue. Stor
ies may have appeared in the college 
magazine or newspaper, but must 
not have been published in any 
other publication. Mademoiselle re
serves the right to purchase any 
story submitted at regular publica
tion rates.
Manuscripts should be typed on 
one side of regulation paper and 
should be accompanied by stamped, 
self-addressed envelopes to guaran
tee their safe return. All entries 
must be postmarked not later than 
May 1st and sent to College Fiction 
Contest, Mademoiselle, 122 East 42nd 
Street, New York, 17, N. Y.
Rabbi Freehof Addresses 
Chapel Tuesday, April 10
The featured speaker at the chapel 
next Tuesday, April 10, will be Rab
bi Solomon B. Freehof of the Rodef 
Shalom Temple.
Dr. Freehof will speak on World 
Crime and Punishment, a subject of 
great interest today.
The chapel, held as usual at 11:00 
in the Little Theater, will be spon
sored by the International Rela
tions Club.
CIT Clothing Dept. 
Exhibits Fashion Show 
At Kaufmanns Store
For the sixteenth consecutive 
year, the Carnegie Tech clothing 
department and Kaufmanns De
partment store are planning a stu
dent fashion show on April 13th and 
14th at 3:00 P. M. in the Dining 
Room of Kaufmanns. C. I. T. Jun
ior and Senior girls will model col
lege girls fashions. The fashion show 
is called The Coeds Diary, and 
it features functional clothes which 
fill the need of every young miss. 
The fabrics for the garments were 
contributed by Kaufmanns, and the 
clothes were made as class prob
lems. In spite of the fact that fabrics 
are difficult to secure, Kaufmanns 
has provided a good representative 
selection. A popularity vote will be 
taken each day, and the successful 
winners will receive merchandise 
certificates. Miss Eleanor Rymer, 
stylist at Kaufmanns, and her as
sistants Miss Bette Liester and Miss 
Florence Gessler, who were former 
Carnegie Techites, will also write 
and direct the script. The girls par
ticipating in the show are junior 
Teacher Training students and Jun
ior and Senior Costume Economics 
students. The show promises to be 
fascinating and enlightening, and 
everyone on campus is invited to at
tend.
Cwens, Soph Honorary, 
Selects Nineteen Girls 
For Initiation April 10
Last Tuesday afternoon nineteen 
girls were invited to join the Sopho
more honorary, Cwens. As they are 
having no Call Day this year, the 
old Cwens gave them a small party 
in the Black Cat. In addition to the 
ribbons and red carnations that are 
always given to newly elected 
Cwens on Call Day, the girls got 
cake and coke. The girls will be 
initiated on April 10 with a formal 
banquet following. The girls chosen 
are as follows:
Margaret Morrison
Margaret Brown 
Patricia Clark 
Barbara Ebaugh 
Phyllis Grant 
Anna Jean Knee 
Joan Lowe 
Sylvia Ann MartinElizabeth Moses 
Jane Orr 
Norma Stull 
Audrey Wilkins
Fine Arts
Patricia Baum 
Margaret Dunlap 
Patsy Falkenhain 
Shirley Higley 
Mary Elizabeth Kane 
Jane Peters 
Jean Smith 
Nancy Wick wire
The Coronation Dance will be 
held from 8:30 to midnight, April 13, 
in Thistle Hall, where music will be 
supplied by the familiar and out
standing Bernie Armstrong and his 
orchestra.
The dance, which will be semiformal, is the first long-dress affair 
at Carnegie Tech in eighteen 
months. Although it is being given 
in honor of all graduating seniors, 
it is open to everyone.
The feature of the dance will be 
the coronation of the Senior Queen 
and the presentation of her court. 
These girls will be chosen at a gen
eral assembly to be held from 4:00 
to 6:00 this Thursday, April 5 in 
the Sylvan Theater. (In case of bad 
weather, the assembly will be mov
ed to the Assembly Hall in Margaret 
Morrison.) Prof. Norman Dawes will 
serve as master of ceremonies and 
conduct a program in which the 
candidates for queenship will par
ticipate. In the audience will be the 
judges who will choose seven girls 
with the greatest possibilities for be
coming Queen. The name of the 
Queen herself, however, will not be 
disclosed until the evening of the 
Coronation Dance.
Admission to the dance has been 
set at $1.50 per couple, tax includ
ed. If, however, one member of the 
couple is a senior, admission will be 
gained by a special senior invitation.
Members of the Coronation Dance 
Committee are Dean Yon, Peggy 
Cole, Lenore DeWall, Adeline Herlick, Pat Werner, Irwin Aisenberg, 
Tom Bokman, Leonard Lerman, and 
Bob Marcus.
CIT Stamp Buyers 
Get Concert Tickets
To increase the sales of war 
stamps in the present ambulance 
campaign, the stamp committee has 
secured tickets to a two hour con
cert to be given by a group of sol
diers, many of them overseas veter
ans, at Soldiers and Sailors Memor
ial Hall next Thursday at 8:00 P. M.
The concert will be presented by 
the 19th Infantry Concert group, in
cluding 16 veterans of this war. Tick
ets will be given to students who 
purchase $1.00 or more in war stamps 
at the school stamp booths on Mon
day and Wednesday of next week. 
Allegheny, Pitt, P. C. W., Duquesne, 
and Mount Mercy will also partici
pate* in the distribution of tickets, 
but a special section will be reserv
ed for Tech students.
It is the desire of the War Stamp 
Committee that every student avail 
himself of this opportunity not only 
to help put the ambulance campaign 
over the top, but also to attend a 
very special musical entertainment 
as a guest of Uncle Sam.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 3, 1945
dUtan!i AnswcltcUsi
Something New is Added
When the Army-Civilian Activities Council decided to terminate its 
existence because there were no longer any servicemen on the campus, 
they changed their name to simply Activities Council and drew up a new 
constitution. This constitution, however, did not pass the Executive Board, 
which, instead, suggested that the group adopt the constiution of the old 
Student Council.
The Student Council constitution is one drawn up after several months 
of research and clear planning. It is better-detailed than the Activities 
Council constitution. Obviously, there is no point in trying to make some
thing which we already have. For this reason, the Council has decided to 
go back to the old S. C. constitution, taking liberty however, in making a 
few changes to fit the irregular conditions of war-time.
A significant suggestion for a change is the one providing for initiative, 
referendum, and recall privileges for the students. For example, a peti
tion bearing 50 names may be presented to the Council and will auto
matically call for action within three weeks. In order to have an issue 
presented to the student body for a general vote, a petition bearing 150 sig
natures must be presented. Any member of the Council may be removed 
from his office by a petition carrying 150 names and approval of threefourths of the Council themselves.
These privileges, we believe, are important stepping stones to eventual 
student government of, by, and for the students. If they have any griev
ances, suggestions, or controversial issues, they may receive Council ac
tion by simply presenting a petition. If they find that they have elected 
the wrong person to the Council they are permitted to ask for his recall. 
Certainly, this is a phase of democracy.
The S. C. constitution in effect will also provide better election rules 
than those found in either the ACAC or AC constitutions. It clearly defines 
election procedure and the procedure for porportional representation.
The S. C. constitution makes no provision for an administration ad
visor although there is to be a faculty advisor who will probably be chosen 
by the Council members themselves. Here again we find an indication of 
unrestricted student government.
In addition to the voting members (those elected March 20th), there 
are to be a limited number of non-voting members on the Council. These 
people will also be elected by all-school elections, the date of which will 
be announced later.
The social chairman of the Council is to be elected in the Spring, de
crees the constitution. In this way, the social calendar will be prepared in 
time that it may be printed in the Plebe Bible. Another important pro
vision in the social department is the early planning of the Spring Car
nival. According to the S. C. constitution, Spring Carnival is as much a 
tradition at Carnegie Tech as is Founders Pay and should be planned and 
executed in as certain a way.
The adoption of the Student Council constitution is definitely the thing 
to do. Besides being the best set of rules today, it will help to simplify later 
transition to a complete peacetime basis. It provides no loop-holes for mis
interpretation and does not lend itself to misuse. It defines its jurisdiction 
clearly and succinctly. It is the best foundation on which to rebuild that 
which crumbled under the clumsy power of the Activities Council.
For Your Pleasure
We have noticed a rather disheartening disinterest on the part of the 
students concerning the various concerts and recitals presented by mem
bers of the Music Department. The audiences for these programs usually 
include a few art students, the parents of the performers, and one or two 
outsiders.
When we realize the wide reputation for excellence which our music 
department may claim we wonder why so few Carnegie Tech students 
will recognize it. They are quite ready to attend plays in the Little The
ater, yet they never show up for musical programs.
Perhaps we should point out that music students, as well as dramats 
take courses in public appearance and should, therefore, be given as fair 
a chance as the dramats receive. They should be supported by their fel
low students in the other schools.
Just as the dramats attempt professional and classical plays the music 
students perform professional and classical music. They are not an ele
mentary group of fiddle-sawers or piano-pounders. They are finished 
artists. Their performances are quite comparable to any professional 
musical organization which many students will readily support. Cer
tainly they deserve student patronage.
The price of admission should not be a stopper, for tickets may be ob
tained simply for the asking in the Music Department.
Location of the concerts should not be a problem either for they are 
held conveniently in the Exhibition Room of Fine Arts or Carnegie Music 
Hall.
The department has scheduled four concerts this month. We hope to 
see a big tournout at each one.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
ttaff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
fHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4851
REPRESENTED FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY After OfflCe HOUrS Call
^ Editor-in-chief ........... Emwso. 18#*
420 Madison ave. new York. n. y. Business Manager............Jackson 9896
Chicago  Boston  Los Arseles * San Francisco 
Entered as seconA-olass matter in the Pittsburgb Post Office under the Act of March S, 187*.
Published weekly during sehool year, except holidays ana examination periods. 
Subscription Price $1.10 per yea.
Editor-in-chief ................................................................................................ Adeline Herlick
One of the Boys
The girls at Mellon Hall where 
he waits tables have been flirting 
with him all winter. Quiet, good-natured, round-faced, with blond hair, 
twinkling blue eyes and a contagi
ous humor . . . wearing sharp sport 
clothes and a collegiate hat always 
cocked on the back of his head . . .
always to be found grinding out a 
game of bridge at the canteen or 
conjuring up a modern glass house 
in ye olde drafting room ... an 
old fifth year Tech student who re
members back when and misses 
what was and isnt now . . . always 
ready to reminisce about the good 
old days and like all of us looking 
forward to their return ... a wist
ful look creeps into those blue eyes 
when he mentions his first two 
years which began incidentally on a 
Friday the Thirteenth ... an alive, 
enthusiastic, and active school run 
by the student body, by all of the 
student bodythats his favorite 
dream.
Music Dept. Presents 
Song Recital Sunday
The Department of Music will 
present Richard Barrett, Tenor, in 
a song recital, at 8:30 p. m., Sunday, 
April 8, 1945, in the Exhibition 
Room, College of Fine Arts.
The program:
Dank sei Dir, Herr...............Handel
Del Lento mio morire .... Donaudy
Adelaide..........................Beethoven
Die Hutte........................Schumann
Schneelglockchen ......... Schumann
Wenn durch die Piazetta. Schumann 
Die alten bosen Lieder.. .Schumann
Lament................................Duparc
Chanson de route..................Puget
Beau soir............................ Debussy
Jai dit aus etoiles...........Paladilhe
The Procession....................Franck
Velvet Shoes___Randall Thompson
The Last Hour.. .A. Walter Kramer 
Fields Beloved.........Rachmaninoff
. . . Jack Menger
. . . By now you must know who he 
is. Its Jack Menger, Senior Architect 
and ex-president of the DUs.
Jack cant remember how or 
when or why he decided to take up 
architecture but he did and he is 
doing a good job at it. Out of school 
he has had a few jobs such as de
signing summer cottages; in school 
he frequently turns out A problems. 
In his Junior year he entered two 
designs in the Beaux Arts Competi
tion and won two honorable men
tions. After he graduates, Jack will 
probably follow the course of most 
architects: a job for three years
with a registered architect; then the 
State test for his own registration; 
after that is too far in the future. 
Perhaps sometime he will come 
back to Tech to get his Masters De
gree  sometime he hopes when 
times are normal and Tech is alive 
again.
His hobbies, uncovered after 
much interrogation, include water 
color painting, photography, the 
trombone, but best of all-loafing. As 
a water color artist his favorite sub
ject matter is still life. As a photog
rapher he has taken a great number 
of movies, many of which have 
made their debuts at DU parties. 
The trombone, he says, is somewhat 
a thing of the past but he did play 
in his high school orchestra and he 
can still get some sweet, soft music 
out of the old horn. Loafing needs 
no further explanation especially 
when spring is on the wing.
A modest, unbraggadocious sort, 
Jack concluded the interview with 
a rather dejected grin and the cas
ual statement; I guess I must lead 
a pretty dull life. To this we will 
make no editorial comment.
AC Minutes
Sixty-ninth meeting
March 28, 1945 
The meeting was called to order at 5:00 
p.m. '
Present: Messrs. Aisenberg, Binder,
Herrmann, Lerman, Straka, and Wangaman: Misses Bauer, Brooks, Clark, Emmel, Ferraez, Garland, Haushalter, Irwin, 
Loeffler, and Swaney.
Womens Activities Point System
Mr. Lerman moved that the Council 
approve the Womens Activities Point 
System as revised.
Motion carried. ,
Elections
Miss Bauer welcomed the newly elected 
members of Council. The new members 
will elect officers for next year at the 
next meeting and will assume their duties 
at the following meeting.
Constitution
Mr. Lerman moved that the Council 
appoint a sub-committee to submit revi
sions of the Student Council constitution 
at the next meeting.
Motion carried. *
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Shirley Swaney, Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 3, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN
One of the Profs.
Since January, 1937, when Edith 
Warman Skinner became one of 
the profs, Carnegie Tech has been 
able to claim one of the foremost 
authorities on phonetics, voice pro
duction, stage speech, and dialects 
as its own. For eight years a sleekly 
dressed woman, whose own voice is 
the best possible advertisement for
her classes, has charmed the cam
pus. And eight classes of Tech Dra
ma students have voted Mrs. Skin
ner (officially, Assistant Professor 
of Stage Speech) one of their best 
loved and most indispensable teach
ers.
Mrs. Skinner has been interested 
in voice and speech and in teaching 
it to others ever since she, as a dra
ma student, enrolled for a course in 
phonetics taught by the late William 
Tilly at Columbia University in or
der to correct her own speech. (Mr. 
Tilly was a student of Henry Sweet 
in George Bernard Shaws introduc
tion to his own play, Pygmalion.) 
The science* of phonetics and voice 
production so fascinated her that 
for eight years she studied with 
Tilly and was his assistant at Co
lumbia where she earned her B. S. 
and M. A. degrees. Ever since she 
has worked in the field of phonetics 
and speech, she has known that she 
would much rather teach than act.
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
I ALL 
MAKES
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
. . . Mrs. Skinner
(However, she was cast in several 
Broadway plays.)
Mrs. Skinner has many outstand
ing achievements to her credit, even 
outside of her teaching career. Her 
book, Speak With Distinction, is 
invaluable to speech students in all 
parts of the country. She was the 
producer of a special anniversary 
presentation of Eugene ONeills Ah, 
Wilderness with Sinclair Lewis and 
other eminent actors. The work she 
is most willing to speak about is her 
co-managership of the Wharf Thea
tre in Provincetown, Mass. from 
1936 until a tragic day in 1940 when 
the theatre was blown out to sea 
in a severe snow storm. The Wharf 
Theatre (the first little theatre 
and the theatre where in 1915 
ONeill and other struggling young 
playwrights first presented their 
plays) was, during the 30s, a sum
mer theatre which maintained a 
permanent company of professional 
Broadway actors and which trained 
a group of young actors in its sum
mer school of dramatics. Mrs. Skin
ner was the director of the young 
actors group. This junior group pre
sented its own plays, and many of 
its members got that greatest oppor
tunity of appearing with professional 
actors in professional Wharf Thea
tre productions. Many actors receiv
ed their starts in Mrs. Skinners 
Wharf Theatre school, under her di
rection. The most famous of these is 
Teresa Wright who studied with 
Mrs. Skinner in her junior group 
for three summers. (The bestknown stage actress whom Mrs. 
Skinner has coached is Elena Miramova, the writer of Dark Eyes.
Mrs. Skinners greatest joy is in 
helping people to make the most of 
their voices and personalities; her 
greatest thrills are the successess 
of students with whom she has 
worked.
After people and teaching, her 
loves are beautiful clothes, exciting 
hairdos (featuring snoods and col
ored braids), her two adopted 
cocker spaniels, Colonel and Lulu 
Belle (she is taking care of them for 
her brother-in-law who lives in Ber
muda) , her china (Spode and 
Crown Derby), reading, writing, 
traveling, and eating delicious food 
(her students say that she is quite 
a connoisseur.) She also has a fond 
spot in her heart for that wonderful 
invention, the mirrorphone.
Softball
To determine whether there will 
be an intramural softball season be
tween now and the end of the se
mester, or during the summer 
months, entries should be turned in 
to the Intramural Office as soon as 
possible. All teams are eligible to 
enter, and a league will be formed 
as soon as possible.
Chorus and Orchestra 
Plan Concert for April 5
A concert by the student chorus 
and orchestra, under the direction 
of Frederick Dorian, will be pre
sented by the Music Department on 
Thursday, April 5, 1945, at 8:15 P. M. 
in Carnegie Music Hall.
The program includes Schuberts 
Mass in E flat, contemporary 
works by "Virgil Thomson, Paul 
Hindenmuth, and Karol Rathaus, 
Borodines Dances from Prince 
Igor, and Strauss Emperor 
Waltz.
Freshmen Take Exam 
On Carnegie Traditions
The traditions exam will be given 
to all first semester freshmen as fol
lows:
ENGINEERS  WEDNESDAY, 
APRIL 12, 4:00, E. H. 218.
The quiz will consist of four ques
tions on traditions, three questions 
on songs, three on campus geog
raphy, and two on cheers.
Attendance is required for all first 
semester freshmen except exserv
icemen to whom I will issue exemp
tion slips on application.
All students will be expected to 
report on the hour stated  those 
who are more than ten minutes late 
without a legitimate excuse will be 
refused admittance.
John H. Seipel, 
President,
Alpha Phi Omega
You And Your 
Out-of-Town Friends
will find comfortable 
accommodations 
at
HOTEL 
WEBSTER HALL
Be sure to make your reservations 
well in advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
Tech Service Men and Women Are 
Especially Welcome
4415 FIFTH AVENUE 
MAyflower 7700
Succeeding generations of 
many of Pittsburghs pioneer 
families open an account at 
the Mellon National Bank as 
a matter of family tradition 
as soon as they come of age.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEMBER FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for 
only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.
NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET 
Near Bouquet Street 
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street
Musica Maestro... Have a Coke
( MAKE WITH THE MUSIC )
...or the cue to making friends in Cuba
At fiesta time the gay little isle of Cuba is a mighty cosmopolitan 
corner of the globewhere the familiar American greeting Have 
a Cake is just as happily understood as their own native Salud. 
From Hanover to Havana, the pause that refreshes with friendly 
Coca-Cola has become a symbol of the good-neighbor spirit. 
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
3
Vu
Io>

Coke" Coca-Cola
You naturally hear Coca-Cola 
k called by ita friendly abbreviation 
I Coke*. Both mean tht quality product of The Coca-Cola Company.

---------------------------------------------------

4TH& CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, APRIL 3, 1945
Cindy Belle Mothers 
Five New Offspring
The event all were anxiously 
waiting for has finally occurred 
Cindy Belle II is now a mother. It 
may now be revealed after weeks of 
speculation as to the number and 
description, that on Sunday, March
11, Cindy became the proud mother 
of six youngsters, of which five sur
vived. The pups, now 23 days old, 
resemble their mother only slightly. 
Three are black or dark brown, 
while two have their mothers beau
tiful blond color.
Secluded in the basement of the 
Delt house by the hot water heater, 
Cindy zealously guards her off
spring at all times from all humans. 
The pups, with eyes still shut and 
oblivious to all outside events, have 
a voracious appetite and have worn 
their mother into a frail skeleton 
from trying to obtain enough food.
It looks like all pups and their 
mother are doing fine, so if anyone 
is desirous of a beautiful, young, at 
least half cocker spaniel dog, appli
cation should be made in writing to 
Delta Tau Delta, 5020 Morewood PI. 
All applications will be considered 
as soon as possible, which means in 
about four weeks, but there probab
ly wont be enough to go around.
1.0 Aim I   
Continued, -from page 1 
will be Dr. Enrique de Lozada and 
Mr. Juan Felipe Yriart. It will take 
place at the Carnegie Lecture Hall.
On Friday a panel discussion 
about Brazil will be held at the 
University of Pittsburgh. It will be 
led by a native Brazilian, J. Silvado 
Bueno. He will speak also at the 
Pennsylvania College for Women 
later in the day. Friday evening the 
Pittsburgh Chamber of Commerce 
will have a dinner meeting at which 
Mr. Clinton Davidson, president of 
the Management Planning Incor
porated, and Mr. Joseph Rovensky, 
vice-president of the Chase Nation
al Bank, will speak on American 
business.
On Saturday, April 14, which is 
Pan-American Day, there will be 
a geographical conference at the 
Frick School and a meeting at which 
Americo Albala will talk on the 
subject, A Chilean Looks at Chile. 
Mr. Herbert C. Lanks, lecturer and 
photographer, will show two sets 
of moving pictures about the Amer
icas. The first will be shown at the 
Buhl Planetarium at 2:30 P. M. and 
the second at the Stephen Foster 
Memorial at 8:15 P. M. At 3:00 P. M. 
Madam Irma Labastille will give in
terpretations of Latin American 
music. Her program is sponsored 
by the Tuesday Musical Society of 
Pittsburgh.
Modern Dance Program 
Will Be Given April 21
A modern dance program will be 
presented by the Contemporary 
Dance Association at the Irene 
Kaufman Theater, on Saturday, 
April 21 at 8:30 p. m. Featuring Jose 
Limon, Beatrice Seckler, and Doro
thy Bird the program includes 
Concerto by Vivaldi, Chaconne 
by Bach, Mexican Suite by Nowack and several Western Dances.
Tickets are priced at $1.20, tax in
cluded, and are now on sale in Room 
101, Gymnasium.
Maps of Caribbean 
Exhibited in Fine Arts
Now hanging in the small exhibi
tion room on the main floor of Fine 
Arts are two maps which are ex
amples of useful activity of design
ers at war. The maps, executed by 
Virgil Cantini, Herbert Hartman, 
and Raymond Fisher, to show the 
terrain and the history of the Car
ibbean area, were constructed as 
part of a problem assigned by Rob
ert L. Lepper, Assistant Professor 
of Painting and Design, to his 1943 
junior class in Design in Lettering. 
The entire problem was designed as 
a project in visual education which 
might be used by an instructor in 
a lecture to people unacquainted 
with the islands who might soon 
have to live there. The Caribbean 
was chosen as a typical area vital 
to American interests.
The seven men in the class, who 
were at the time enlisted in the 
Army Reserve Corps and studying 
map-reading as part of their mili
tary training, prepared a large scale 
map of the area and fashioned small
er maps covering the fields of his
tory, terrain, climatic and health 
conditions, population strains and 
origins, economics, and industry and 
agriculture. The smaller maps could 
be hung on the larger .one by the in
structor as needed during his lec
ture.
Fisher, Cantini, and Hartman 
were assigned to the same Engi
neering Model Making Detachment 
with four other Carnegie Tech P 
and Ds, who were seniors in 43: 
Bill Mahalik, Harvey Hill, Louis 
Jacobs, and Douglas Ackering. All 
seven of them returned last Decem
ber after spending over a year in 
North Africa. Their detachment is 
now stationed somewhere in the Pa
cific.
The four other men who worked 
on the Caribbean problem are Delmar Damran of the AAF, James Mc
Cullough who is in the Philippines, 
Claire Ramsey, in Germany, and 
Don Yochum who is missing in action 
after a reported landing behind ene
my lines in Germany.
Citcom Clan Holds Party 
In Canteen Saturday
The Canteen will be the site of an
other Citcom party to be held Satur
day evening, April 6. According to 
the chairman, Ginny Reynolds, the 
feature of the party will be a treas
ure hunt within the bounds of the 
campus. The winners in the hunt 
will receive war stamps as prizes.
The party,however, will not be 
exclusively concerned with the 
treasure hunt and there will be 
dancing, entertainment, and refresh
ments.
Citcom Clan invites all commut
ers to take part in the affair. Tickets 
may be obtained from Jane McFadden or Bob Fletcher.
Notice
A great number of compacts, lip
sticks, and other items have become 
accumulated in the Canteen. Mrs. 
Barr asks that these articles be 
claimed before the end of the semes
ter.
Corporal Elliot Twery 
Paints Mural For Army
Corporal Elliot Twery, a former 
student of the P and D Dept, has 
found his niche in the army for he 
is at present painting a series of 
murals in the mess hall of Camp 
Robinson, Arkansas. Corp. Twery 
was a Junior in illustration before 
he joined the army two years ago 
and he intends to complete his ed
ucation as soon as the war is over. 
His opportunity to paint these mur
als came about when the General 
in charge planned to decorate the 
bare mess hall walls. The original 
scheme was to have a series of cross
ed rifles around the room but Corp. 
Twery and his staff suggested some
thing of more variety and interest. 
At present the murals portray the 
various phases of infantry training 
at the camp. The three large murals 
which he has already begun show 
scenes from the three courses 
which stimulate actual combat. 
They are the village fighting course, 
the airplane target course, and the
pillbox attack course. Corp. Twery 
was home recently on furlough but 
has returned to camp where he will 
finish the murals.
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MELK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM CONES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes 8treet, Squirrel Sill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
"Tanker out of control on port bow," the lookout 
telephones to the officer on the bridge. Ever alert, 
this merchant seaman and his mates transport 
mountains of materials to every battle front. In 
spite of fog, storms and the enemy, they are deliver
ing the tools of Victory.
Until the day of Victory eomes, our job at 
Western Electric is to keep on producing vast quan
tities of communications and electronic equipment 
to aid every branch of our wartime services. In 
this work, many college graduates  both men and 
womenare serving their country well. ,
Bwty all the War Bond yeu eanmnd keep them!
Western Electric
m KACC...soice or *umr ro* Mad sin system.
IN WAS...MSCNAL Of COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.
