LavalKhrushchev At Tech
Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev made an unannounced visit to 
the Tech campus daring Rush Week. He is pictured above being 
driven by DUs Chuck Buerger.
Dinks, Handshakes 
And Big, Big Smiles
By George Logan
On Tuesday, September 8, Carnegie Techs Orientation 
Week was officially launched.
Heads topped with gray dinks, symbols of C.I.T.s unmis
takable two-dollar traditions, three hundred and thirteen
incoming freshmen boarded a*------------------- --------------------------------
considerably smaller number of 
buses and were whisked off to 
Freshman Camp. There they were 
treated to such interesting and
educational pastimes as singing 
(Skibo, Skibo . . .), square 
dancing (Get off my toe . 
and cabin clean-up (Get off my 
bed . . .. It was reported that a 
good time was had by all present.
Meanwhile, back at on campus, 
several hundred gay fraternity 
men greeted stragglers with fines 
and engaged' in varied activities, 
such as scrubbing floors and 
painting ceilings. Spirits ran high 
in expectation of the fun to be had 
once rush started.
Receptions
On Thursday, freshmen began 
to pour onto campus. Shortly after 
noon, the campers returned, Deans 
Receptions were held, and by eve
ning the dorms were filled with 
freshmen. The sidewalks around 
the mens dormitory were also 
crowded by hordes of fraternity 
men, now happily smilling, all 
tactly awaiting the sound of the 
car horn: C.F.P. standard times 
own makeshift clock. At the sig
nal, the dorms were instantane
ously teeming with these brothers, 
all with outstretched hands and 
bringing with them tales of delic
ious free meals to be had even 
without the asking
At 7:00 p.m. that same evening, 
the fraternity orientation program 
was held in the Fine Arts Theatre,
and 8:00 p.m. found the Street 
Dance being held in Exhibition 
Hall. (Somebody said it was go
ing to rain.)
Orientation Tests
Friday morning was taken up 
by Orientation Tests (Had you 
rather . . .). Dorm meetings fol
lowed in the late afternoon and 
a joint dorm party followed.
Saturdays highlight was Sports 
Day and its accompanying free 
food. All freshmen were required 
to have dinks in order to be serv
ed. Nineteen dinks were sold to 
those unfortunate enough to have 
lost or forgotten theirs. Tours and 
another dorm party, populated in 
the main by fresh women for the 
duration of said tours, and fra
ternity stags closed the day.
Sunday was, as perusual, a day 
primarily of rest. Freshmen were 
hard pressed to And a place to 
eat, since Skibo has, of course, 
been torn down.
Monday
Registration began on Monday. 
Interesting departmental discus
sion groups filled the afternoon 
(And now, Prof. Moore, I have 
a purely mathematical question 
for you . . .) and the Presidents 
Reception followed at 8:00 p.m.
Tuesday: see Monday.
Classes began on Wednesday, 
much to the merriment of all con
cerned. Strangely enough, this 
merriment quickly degenerated 
into long faces, and only the 
(Continued on page 3) *
Building Program
New Mens Dorm 
is Now Started
norm
Shown above is the new dormitory now under construction be
hind Boss and McGill Halls. Completion date is set for August 1960. 
* * * * * *
Those students returning to and arriving for the first 
time on Techs campus have probably noticed that several 
additions to our school are in the process of being built.
# Residents in the hill dorms are particularly impressed 
with the new mens dormitory which has made itself rather
obvious throughout the daylight* 
hours. This new dormitory, cost
ing over $897,000 and scheduled 
to be completed by August 1, 1960. 
will be located on the campus 
adjacent to the six other mens 
dormitories on Margaret Morri
son Street, 
n W Design
In the unique design of the 
dormitory two wings are joined by 
a recerational and social area. 
Sides of the building utilize a 
sawtooth design which affords ex
tra privacy and a better view. An
other unusual feature will be a 
a sundeck on the roof of the rec
reational area. The entire struc
ture will be reinforced concrete 
faced with brick and glass, 
including living accommoda
tions for women students in 
Morewood Gardens, Carnegie 
Techs residence facilities have 
accommodations for over 1600 
students. The new undergraduate 
dormitory will house 174 more. 
An addition to the Mudge Grad
uate House, ready for occupancy 
this September 1, will add 90 
more to the total on-campus acc<jpnmodations.
Activities Center 
The Campus Activities Center 
being erected on the cut will also 
be ready next September. It will 
house complete floor facilities, 
student activities offices, a ball
room, and lounge space for stu
dents and faculty. Much of it will 
be air conditioned. Also schedul
ed for September completion is 
the new football stadium which 
&3f]l accommodate 4000-4500 fans.
Several other projects are also 
underway. An addition is being 
erected to Porter Hall which will 
supply ten new clasrooms plus 
various offices. Improvements 
have been made on Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College and 
an addition on the northeast side 
of the school is now under con
struction. The Canterbury House
has been acquired by the school 
along with the Woodlawn Apart
ments next door. The Canterbury 
House will be used to replace the 
present Instep offices which will 
be razed.
Fabulous Fifties 
Is Homecoming 
Theme For 1959
Homecoming, October 16 and 
17, is the first big weekend of the 
fall semester. After much dis
cussion concerning a theme, the 
committee has chose The Fabu
lous 50s, which will center 
around significant events that oc
curred during the last ten years.
Many activities will be jammed 
into these two days. The football 
game will be played at Forbes 
Field with' Grove City or, as they 
are sometimes called, the Grov
ers or the Wolverines. Grove 
Citys color is crimson and their 
mascot is Willie the Wolverine.
Displays
Fraternity displays in keeping 
with the theme and predicting the 
Grovers defeat will be seen 
everywhere on campus. The com
mittee decided to release the 
theme near enough to Homecom
ing to limit somewhat the time 
spent on the displays. Awards for 
the top three displays will be pre
sented at the Saturday night 
dance.
The Homecoming Queen will 
be crowned during Call Day Fri
day afternoon to reign during the 
rest of the weekend. That same 
afternoon honoraries make their 
calls for membership, and Varsity 
Varieties will be presented by the 
sororities with trophies given for 
the top three skits.
Music
Music for the Homecoming 
Dance will be supplied by Ray 
Crummie who will be playing 
jazz in Thistle Hall and by Tom 
(Continued on page 3)
DGs and Betas 
Take First Places 
In Scholarship
Kappas and SAE 
Win Second Places
The statistics on fraternity, so
rority and all-school factors re
vealed that for the 1958-59 spring 
semester every average, with the 
exception of the all-fraternity and 
all-sorority average was higher 
than the corresponding average of 
last year.
The all-mens average for the 
spring semester,, was 0.06 above 
that of last fall; all-women was 
0.03 above last falls. Independ
ent women gained 0.11 during the 
semester, while the all-school av
erage jumped 0.07.
Delta Gamma and Beta Theta 
Pi led the sororities and fraterni
ties in scholastic averages with 
factures of 2.83 and 2.54 respec
tively.
The breakdown of spring sem
ester factors are as follows:
Sororities
Delta Gamma.....................2.83
Kappa Kappa Gamma .. 2.76
Delta Delta Delta .......... 2.73
Chi Omega ..................... 2.70
Kappa Alpha Theta .... 2.67
Sigma Kappa ..................... 2.55
Alpha Epsilon Phi .......... 2.53
Fraternities
Beta Theta Pi ..................... 2.54
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ... 2.46
Alpha Tau Omega .......... 2.44
Pi Kappa Alpha ............ 2.28
Delta Tau Delta .............. 2.27
Sigma Nu .......................... 2.26
Delta Upsilon ................. 2.25
Kappa Sigma .................. 2.25
Theta Xi ............................ 2.24
Phi Kappa Theta ............ 2.20
Beta Sigma Rho ............ 2.19
Tau Delta Phi ................. 2.18
Averages
All-Fraternity ................... 2.31
All-Mens .......................... 2.38
All-School .......................... 2.44
All-Sorority ..................... 2.69
All-Womens ..................... 2.39
Independent Women ... 2.53
Student Congress 
Meeting Today
The first Student Congress 
meeting of the year will be 
held today in Potter Hall 100 
at 4:30 p.m. Because of the 
importance of this meeting, alt 
members are urged to attend.
C Club To 
Hold Dance
On September 26, 1959, from 
9:00 p.m. until midnight, the Car
negie Tech Varsity C Club will 
sponsor its annual scholarship 
dance in the CIT gymnasium. This 
will be the first all-school dance 
of the year and will be informal.
Music for the dance will be sup
plied by King George and his men, 
a 13-piece dance band from the 
Pittsburgh area. At intermission 
a $100 scholarship will be award
ed to a member of one of the var
sity teams. The recipient of this 
scholarship is chosen on the basis 
of financial need and scholastic 
ability.
Admission for the scholarship 
dance will be $2.00 per couple. 
Tickets may be obtained in Skibo, 
from any member of the Varsity 
C Club, or at the door. Refresh
ments will be sold at intermission 
in the Black Cat Lounge,
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 53NUMBER 1 WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 23, 1959

---------------------------------------------------

2CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, September 23, 1959
Coed Of DL Week
Schon tz
Annett Elio
Graduate Music Major
A Word To Freshmen 
About Carnegie Tech
By Rena Seigal 
Now is the time for all good men (and women too) to 
take stock of themselvesfreshmen especially. This is the be
ginning of a new life for you. Your experiences this year 
will be unlike any you have ever had before.
What you accomplish during your years here at Tech, 
just how much you gain from a college education, will de
pend upon how much you are willing to put into it. It is for 
you alone to decide how much time should he given to study
ing, student activities, and or bridge. You came here expect
ing to work; to stay here you must work.
Tech has its traditions, of which we are justly proud. 
These traditions will now become a part of you if you will 
accept and carry them on as you go through your college 
years. New ideas and new traditions add to our school spirit, 
and prestige. As freshmen, you are becoming an integral part 
of our academic and social life. We welcome you as you begin 
your new lives as college students. We wish you every happi
ness and the success that comes with the self-satisfaction of 
looking upon a job well done. May you carry on in the tradi
tion of Carnegie Tech. We hope you will go on to become the 
finest class ever to enter and graduate from Tech.
Candidates To Be 
Nominated For 
Danforth Fellows
President J. C. Warner has 
named Dr. R E. Parshall as the 
liaison officer to nominate to the 
Danforth Foundation two or not 
to exceed three candidates for 
these 1960 fellowships.
These appointments are funda
mentally a relationship of en
couragement throughout the 
years of graduate study, carrying 
a promise of financial aid within 
prescribed conditions as there may 
be need. The maximum annual 
grant for single fellows is $1500 
plus tuition and fees charged-to 
all graduate students; for married 
fellows, $2000 plus tuition and 
fees charged to all graduate stu
dents with an additional stipend 
of $500 for each child. Students 
with or without financial need are 
invited to apply.
Danforth Fellows
A Danforth Fellow is allowed 
to carry other scholarship ap
pointments, such as Rhodes, Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson, Mar
shall etc., concurrently with his 
Danforth Fellowship, and appli
cants for these appointments are 
cordially invited to apply at the 
same time for a Danforth Fellow
ship. If a man received the Dan
forth appointment, together with 
a Rhodes Scholarship, Fulbright 
Scholarship, or Woodrow Wilson 
Fellowship, he becomes a Dan
forth Fellow without stipend, un
til these other relationships are 
completed.
The Foundation
The Danforth Foundation, an 
educational foundation located in 
St. Louis, Missouri, invites appli
cations for the ninth class (1960) 
of Danforth Graduate Fellows 
from college senior men and re
cent graduates who are preparing 
themselves for a career of college 
teaching, and are planning to en
ter graduate sehool in September, 
1960, for their first year of grad
uate study. The foundation wel
comes applicants from the areas 
of natural and biological sciences, 
social sciences, humanities and all 
fields of specialization to be found 
in the undergraduate college.
All apllications, including the 
recommendations, must be com
pleted by January 31, 1960. Any 
student wishing further informa
tion should get in touch with our 
liaison officer.
Buy
Your
Thistle
1Y11* . , Film Arts Series ToHolding Meeting
To Set Up Staff Offer Ali-Tini e Greats
The Carnegie Technical is 
holding its first meeting of the 
year on Tuesday, September 29. 
1959, at 7:30 p.m. in Carnegie 
Union.
Staff members and all inter
ested freshman and upper class 
men and women should attend this 
organizational meeting. The 
working staff for the coming year 
will be set up and the many staff 
positions will be assigned. Oppor
tunities are available for individ
uals interested in writing, editing, 
proof-reading, sales, business, ad
vertising, production, art, drafting, 
and public liaison.
The Technical is a Carnegie 
Tech publication issued six times 
a year carrying articles, essays 
and papers of general interest. 
The magazine is student written, 
edited and published and has 
achieved national recognition for 
excellence in its field. It boasts a 
circulation which includes all of 
the United States and many for
eign countries including Russia.
Film Arts Society, which in the last ten years has de' veloped into one of Techs largest and most influential or| ganizations, is this year presenting what is considered to be 
' its finest series of motion pictures. This semester Film Arts 
! has planned a program of films which are very seldom seen 
I in America today. All the films^ 
in this years series have been sethe French anti-Nazi Battle of the
Rails, and W. C. Field You Cant 
Cheat an Honest Man. All told, 
Techs film society will present 
this season, fourteen of filmdoms 
finest achievements  including 
motion pictures from six different 
countries.
The entire series, playing every 
Thursday afternoon and evening 
costs only $2.25 for membership. 
Tickets are still available, and 
may be purchased at the door of 
Porter Hall 100 on Thursday, Sep
tember 24, preceding the show
ing of Kind Hearts and Coronets.
leeted to show the innuence that 
each individual film director had 
on the film.
Four of the fourteen films pre! sented this semester were last 
I year voted at the Brussels Inter
national Cinema Fair among the 
twelve best motion pictures of 
all time. They include Eisensteins Potemkin, a rare Chaplin 
Feature, Storheims Greed, andIthe Russian Earth.
Other Highlights 
Other highlights include the reI cent Indian film, Pather Panchali;
CAMPUS CLEANERS
? 2 Hour Shirt Laundry
? 1 Hour Dry Cleaning Service
? Rough Dry Laundry
ALTERATIONS - TAILORING - REPAIRING
] 4609 FORBES AYE. (near Craig St.)WELCOME
STUDENTSMUseum 1-1288
On Canrnuswith MotShulman
(.Author of I IFas a Teen-age Dwarf , The Many 
Batleo of Dobie Gittis, etc.)
ANOTHER YEAR, ANOTHER DOLLAR
Today I begin my sixth year of writing this column for the 
makers of Philip Morris and Marlboro Cigarettes. For this I 
get money.
Not, let me hasten to state, that payment is necessary. Sirs,* 
I said a few days ago to the makers of Philip Morris and Marl
boro, if I can introduce Americas college men and women to 
Philip Morris and Marlboro, and thus enhance their happiness, 
heighten their zest, upgrade their gusto, magnify their cheer, 
and broaden their bliss, there is no need to pay me because I am 
more than amply rewarded.
We wept then. Im not ashamed to say it. WE WEPT! I 
wish the wiseacres who say big business is cold and heartless 
could have been there that day. I wish they could have seen 
the great, shimmering tears that splashed on the board room 
table. We wept, every man jack of us. The makers weptthe 
secretaries weptI weptmy agent, Clyde Greedy, wept. We 
wept all.
No, no! eried the makers. We insist on paying you.*?
Ms Ho need to fyy
Oh, very well, I said, and the gloom passed like a summer 
shower. We laughed and we lit Philip Morrises and Marlboros 
and some of us lit Alpineswhich is a brand-new cigarette from 
the makers of Philip Morris and Marlboroa fine new cigarette 
with a light touch of menthol and the rich taste of choice tobaccos 
and the longest filter yet devised. And if you are one who likes 
a fine new cigarette with a light touch of menthol and the rich 
taste of choice tobaccos and the longest filter yet devised, you 
would do well to ask for new king-size Alpines. If, on the other 
hand, you do not like menthol but do like better makins and 
a filter that does what its built for, ask for Marlboro. Or, if you 
dont like filters at all, but only mildness, ask for Philip Morris. 
Any way you play it, youre a winner.
But I digress. Will you, said the makers of Philip Morris, 
Marlboro and Alpine, write about the important issues that 
occupy the supple young minds of college America this year in 
your column?
But of course, I replied, with a kindly chuckle.
And will you, asked the makers, from time to time say % 
pleasant word about Philip Morris, Marlboro and Alpine?
Crazy kids! I said with a wry grin, pushing my fist 
gently against their jaws. You know I will. ^
And we all shook handssilently, firmly, manlily. And I left, 
dabbing my eyes with my agent, and hurried to the nearest 
typewriter. sitMMuSbain*
The makers of Philip Morris, Marlboro anti Alpine take great 
pleasure in bringing you another year of this uncensored, 
free-wheeling column.
$
m

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 23, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPake X
 ' ^ - T2 **'' imy! *&**'/"& ,*s*v  M&
m
- RoggenburkThe Water's Cold!
Freshman girls at Freshman Camp preparing to take a dip in 
the pond at Lutherlyn.
Sport's Day And Picnic
Scenes at the Sports Day and Picnic held during Orientation 
Week by the Womens Athletic Association, the Intramural Managers 
Club, Cwens and Scimitars.
Religious Talks 
To Start Oct. 6
Registrations are now being ac
cepted in the Office of Religious 
Affairs in Carnegie Union for the 
autumn series of lectures in reli
gion. These non-credit lectures 
will continue over a ten week pe
riod from October 6 through De
cember 17. Each lecture series 
will meet once a week from 4:30 
to 5:30 p.m. on the second floor of 
Carnegie Union.
The Tuesday series will present 
Rabbi Richard L. Rubenstein, di
rector of Hillel Foundation, on the 
theme: Existentialism and the
Contemporary Philosophy of Re
ligion. Some of the great think
ers in the field of the philosophy 
of religion will be discussed, in
cluding Kieregaard, Maritain, 
Sartre, Buber, and Heschel. The 
Wednesday series will be on 
Jesus or the Christ. The series 
will be a dialogue between the 
Rev. Roy Oldham, director of the 
Wesley Foundation, and the Rev. 
Irving Murray, minister of the 
First Unitarian Church. They will 
present and discuss two different 
perspectives on Jesus: the tradi
tional view of Jesus as the Christ 
or God Incarnate, and the human
istic view of Jesus as only a great 
teacher and philosopher. The 
Thursday series will be on the 
theme The Way Out. In this 
series, the Rev. Charles Carlson, 
director of the Lutheran Student 
Foundation, will survey several 
ethical systems and compare them 
to Christian ethics both in theory 
and in application to contempor
ary ethical problems.
The registration fee for each 
lecture series is $2.00. Registra
tions will be taken up to the time 
of the first meeting of each series, 
but students are urged to register 
in advance.
Lectures in religion are sponsor
ed by members of the Tech Chap
lains Fellowship, who act as ad
visors to the religious groups 
serving Carnegie Techstudents.
Delta Skull
Delta Skull, the junior mens 
activities honorary, is preparing 
to make its fall call to member
ship for a limited number of jun
ior men.
In order to be eligible for 
membership you must stand in 
the upper third of your class 
scholastically as well as having 
demonstrated a variety of inter
ests during your first two years 
at Tech. If you wish to be con
sidered for membership, please 
submit a list of your undergrad
uate collegiate activities including 
your offices and positions of responsibilty. Direct your replies 
before October 10 to John P. 
Crecine, Beta Theta Pi fraternity 
house.
Emerson
The Emerson Clubs next meet
ing will be Sunday, September 
27, at 6:00 p.m. Rabbi Rich^d 
Rubenstein, Director of the HiU*l 
Foundation of the Pittsburgh aray, 
will present Why You Should lie 
Concerned About Paul TillicU' 
The group will meet at the B\rj<t 
Unitarian Church, Ellsworth <yjl 
Morewood Avenues. The program 
will be followed by a social hour 
and refreshments.
Thirty-Five Girls 
Began TVo Week 
Rush Last Sunday
Just as the hectic fraternity 
rush week was coming to a close, 
about thirty-five girls began the 
two w.eek sorority rush for sop^>mores, juniors, and seniors.
Rush began with a Pan Hellenic 
Reception held at the Carnegie 
Union last Sunday. There the 
girls met Pan Hel Council offic
ers and members, the sorority 
presidents, the Dean of Women, 
Mrs. Milligan, and her assistant, 
Miss Bebic.
During the first week of rush, 
rushees are required to eat one 
dinner with each sorority. After 
ti^at, the girls may accept invi
tations as they choose. They are 
allowed to accept only three final 
party invitations. Bids will be 
given out Wednesday, October 7.
Helicopter To 
Be On Campus
i The Army will show off its first 
turbine-powered helicopter, the 
Iroquois, on the Carnegie Tech 
campus, on September 28 in a 
demonstration of its capabilities.
The Iroquois, or HU-1 A util
ity helicopter as it is officially des
ignated, has a low silhouette, 
which is less vulnerable for com
bat operations. It is used for 
transportation of personnel, spe.cial teams or crews, medical evac^tion, and, with dual controls, in
strument training.
The HU-1 A is capable of oper
ating from prepared or unprepar
ed take-off or landing areas, and 
under instrument conditions in
cluding light icing, and day or 
night flying. It is also able to nav
igate by dead reckoning or by use 
of radio aids to navigation.
Tech Enrolled 
3400 Students
Following registration, it was 
announced that approximately 
3400 students are attending Car
negie Tech day school while an 
additional 1700 are enrolled in 
evening classes.
There are represented in the en
rollment this year, students from 
practically every state in the un
ion, plus the District of Columbia, 
Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone, and 
37 foreign countries. Forty-five 
per cent of the students are from 
out of state, with New Jersey, 
New York, and Ohio contributing 
the largest numbers.
In the freshman class of 800 are 
represented 32 states and 10 for
eign countries. Over 50% of this 
class consists of out-of-state stu
dents, continuing a trend which 
has seen more students entering 
Tech from outside Pennsylvania 
each year.
Freshmen enrollment in the 
four undergraduate schools is as 
follows: College of E & S, 425; 
College of Fine Arts, 210; MMCC, 
135; School of Printing Manage
ment, 35.
Homecoming
(Continued from page 1) 
Koneskis dance music * in the 
Gym. Ray has spent the summer 
supplying the music for the 
Showboat Sprague and at the 
Point Vue. Tom Koneski has re
ceived an award as having the 
best dance band in the local area, 
and they competed to receive the 
award as Best Band of 1959, 
sponsored by the American Feder
ation of Music.
But, you may be asking, Is all 
this free? Well, not exactly. 
Tickets for these events may be 
purchased in the dorms, fraternity 
houses, or Skibo.
Pershing Rifles
Pershing Rifles Military Honor
ary is holding a smoker at the 
Carnegie Union on Thursday, 
September 24, 1959, at 7:30 p.m. 
The staff and members cordially 
invite all freshman and sopho
more R.O.T.C. students interested 
in the organization to attend. 
Dress will be informal. *
Newman Club
The Cardinal Newman Hall 
opens its social season this Satur
day with a semi-formal dance at 
the University of Pittsburghs 
student union. Music will be pro
vided by the orchestra of Greg 
Manning from 8:30 until 11:30 p.m. 
Tickets may be purchased from 
any officer or committee chairman 
in the Tech Newman Club.
YM-YWCA
The YM-YWCA will hold a 
dating forum, Adams Rib on 
Thursday, September 24, at 4:30 in 
the Carnegie Union. A chicken 
dinner will be served afterwards 
I for $.75 per person.
ODK Active 
Tech Honorary
Omicron Delta Kappa, national 
leadership honorary for college 
men, was founded at Washington 
and Lee University in 1914.
There are now ninety chapters 
throughout the country. ODK re
cognizes and encourages achieve
ment in five areas: scholarship, 
athletics, student government, 
publications, and the arts. Techs 
chapter of ODK, Beta Circle, was 
established in 1942.
Members
This year there are nine mem
bers: Don Beaman, Mike Bass, 
Bob Jones, Tim McGuire, Nat 
Teich, Ray Nix, Ed. MacEwen, 
Jeremiah Sullivan, and Jan 
Chaiken. Officers this year are: 
Nat Teich; president, Don Bea
man; vice-president, Bob Jones; 
secretary, and Tim McGuire, 
treasurer.
Before 1956 ODK and Mortar 
Board had complete responsibil
ity for Homecoming and Spring 
Carnival. With the creation of the 
present student government, how
ever, this function has passed to 
Student Congress. The chairman 
of Homecoming and Spring Car
nival are still selected from Mor
tar Board and ODK. ODK has 
since turned its efforts to stim
ulating leadership and the im
provement of the extra-curricular 
activities of the school.
FCC
Religelous
1 -RW 30 DA
cHEAftV POPm
LIMEPriert
DAO'S OL
r/\5WOHDeoor
;
A/VD
WH/CH
wf ARE Not
> m
/Vxowto
yr
m
Orientation
(Continued from page 1) 
Frosh-Soph Hop on Friday, fra
ternity parties on Saturday, and 
pledging on Monday (Come on 
in . . .) brightened the ebbing 
days.
And amid sighs of relief, from 
both freshmen and upperclass
men, can be heard the comment, 
Theres a whole years respite 
before it all happens again.
Fran Bebic Picked 
As Assistant To 
Dean Of Women
Miss Frances Bebic has been 
appointed as the assistant to the 
Dean of Women.
Miss Bebic is a 1959 graduate 
of Carnegie and has been active 
in student organizations through
out her college career. She was 
president of the Panhellenic As
sociation and Mortar Board (na
tional senior womens honorary) 
and secretary of the class of 1959 
organization committee. Last year 
Miss Bebic served as a delegate 
to the Delta Delta Delta sorority 
convention at Miami, Florida. She 
is a member of the Sigma Alpha 
Iota national fraternity for wo
men in music, Phi Kappa Phi na
tional scholastic honorary and Phi 
Tau Gamma local womens honor
ary.
In making the announcement 
Mrs. Virginia Milligan, Dean of 
Women at Carnegie, said, Be
cause Miss Bebic graduated so re
cently herself, she will have an 
understanding of the student and 
the campus which will be mutually helpful to both student and 
administration. She will work pri
marily with incoming freshmen. 
In addtion to her duties as As
sistant to the Dean, Miss Bebic 
will also act as Assistant to the 
Head Resiednt of Womens Hous
ing and in that capacity will be 
working with the student coun
selor program in the resident 
halls.
SnS Appeals 
To All Writers
Scotch n Soda is presently 
I looking for a script for the annual 
| musical production to be present
ed at the 1960 Spring Carnival 
weekend. Although several scripts 
l have already been received for 
consideration, the executive boaid 
today announced that studentwritten shows for the club will 
! be considered up until October 1. 
j All people who have written 
shows or material for Scotch n 
| Soda are therefore urged to subI mit their work before the October 
I deadline. Shows will only be 
considered for judging if they are 
given to Bill Pence, 5033 Forbes; 
before October 1.

---------------------------------------------------

Fare 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, September 23, 1959
Federal Aid To 
Higher Education
By Louis R. Pondy
College studentspotential voting citizens and partici
pants in Americas higher education programshould be 
aware of the issues involved in the question of Federal aid 
to higher education, particularly those concerned with the 
political aspects.
Ones first reaction is that any program beneficial to
colleges and universities should bt4-------------------------------------------------------------
pursued and even encouraged. 
This immediate enthusiasm, how
ever, should be tempered with the 
warning that with aid often comes 
control; we must ask ourselves if 
we are willing to allow any po
litical organ to interfere with the 
educational process. Educational 
freedom is one of the bulwarks of 
democracy which we dare not 
weaken.
History has left ugly scars on the 
educational past; consider the 
twisted direction of the schools 
during the Hitler regime and the 
half-truth education of recent 
Soviet history.
Russian Strides
But consider, too, the great 
technological and economic strides 
which Russia has made under a 
planned economy, including a
strong and directed educational
system.
The question still remains, how
ever, w'hether we as students and 
possibly as future educators are 
willing to have curricula, course 
content and method of instruction 
dictated by political whim.
The Need
At present almost fifty percent 
of the income of American col
leges and universities comes from 
national, state or local govern
ment, but predominantly from the 
state level. There is, however, 
considerable controversy whether 
additional Federal funds are 
needed. Over the past fifteen 
years private giving has increased 
eightfold; furthermore, higher ed
ucational institutions are becom
ing more efficient and businessEditorial
The Activities Man
planned educational system with like in their operation and may be 
adequate financial help and other j able to maintain and expand facillong range promises and incen
tives given to that countrys bright
ities without more help from the 
national government. Thus the 
need for additional Federal aid is 
not a clear-cut issue.
In conclusion, even if Federal 
funds are seriously needed, we 
must be wary of an unbalanced 
and unhealthy overemphasis of 
one major field to serve the short 
range national defense rather than 
the long range national social and 
economic well-being. If we must 
have Federal aid, then let us also 
the colleges and universities must j have a non-political board of edindeed be considered as natural ucators to allocate nationally apresources designed to serve napropriated monies for education, 
tional needs. Our modern way of Perhaps in this way our nations 
life has become too complexboth higher educational system can 
technologically and sociallyto be have aid and direction without 
able to progress further without a i control.* * * * * *
Editors Note:
The above is Louis Pondys winning entry to the Tartan divis
ion of the 1958-59 WRITE contest. This contest is sponsored an
nually by Pi Delta Epsilon, national journalism honorary.
students. Perhaps it is not only 
the right but the duty of the Fed
eral government to see that our 
nations brainpowerour most 
valuable natural resourceis fully 
developed to serve national needs!
The educators and leaders of 
this nation, Great Britain, cer
tainly Russia, and others have 
slowly come to the realization that 
the school system and particularly
The first Tartan editorial of the 
year is traditionally one concern
ing the opportunities and benefits 
that activities have to offer the 
student.
However, since the activities 
question has been examined at 
Freshman Camp and at several 
other events during Orientation 
Week, the Tartan feels that fur
ther comment on the worth of ac
tivities would merely be a restate
ment of what has already been 
said by others. In fact the Tartan 
senses that the need for a greater 
message than that of convincing 
freshman and disinterested upper
classmen of the need for achieve
ment outside the classroom as 
well as inside. This greater mes
sage is a warning to those about 
to enter campus activities and 
those now engaged in them.
Dabbler
Beware of the individual who 
merely dabbles in a host of or
ganizations. The pressure of con
temporary society to be well 
rounded has led to the develop
ment of many of these indi
viduals. Just as this individual 
probably feels that once having 
had a course in philosophy he is 
already a philosopher, he feels 
that membership in many organi
zations makes the well-rounded 
man.
This person is a genuine failure 
and a threat to any serious activ
ity if he attracts followers. Not 
only is the time he has to donate 
marginal, but also his talents and 
resources are spread out so thin
ly that they are of no real value 
to any organization. A student 
who is capable of doing A work 
but is taking so many courses that 
he does much poorer cheats him
self by doing far less than his 
best. Similarly the student in too 
many activities fails to reap the 
true benefit that activities have 
to offer.
Dangerous Thing
As the English poet Alexander 
Pope once so appropriately said, j
A little learning is a dangerous 
thing; Drink deep, or taste not 
the Pierian spring., so too can 
the same be said of activities. It 
is better to join none than to join 
so many that ones contribution 
becomes superficial. The Tartan 
realizes that not everyone can be
come number one in his chosen 
activity, but everyone can select 
a small number of campus organ
izations and pour his all into these. 
He can be an active member will
ing to do his share of the work 
and showing a genuine enthusiasm 
while doing it.
Go then and choose wisely 
selectively those things which 
will claim your attention. And 
then do what you do profession
ally and thoxoughly.
J.D.S.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office Phone. MU 2-4557; Editor MU 2-9211; Advertising Manager MU 
2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays and 
examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Editor .......................................................................... itrfmuk D. Sullivan
AMoeiatc Editor  ........................ .......................... ....................... tr'k J Ba,oh
Botine** Manager ............................................................... ..................... Li* Adlesberj
New* Editor .............................. ................................................................. >" NU>olo
Awiitenl News Editor..................................................................................... phil
Sports Editor .......................................................................................... ch'k Vodvarka
Copy Editor ..........................................................................r............ Ann
Kayoat Editor................................................................................*...................J,m " balen
Feature EditorRena Siegal, Photography EditorFred Beste, 
Assistant Business ManagerMike Balsam, Advertising Manager 
Miles Holander, SecretaryAudrey Dolan, Circulation ManagerJohn 
Mowery.
News StaffSally Ganong, Martha Magee, Georgia White, George 
Logan, Louis Wolf, Maxine Brown, Vince Freund, Bob Nowak, 
Betsy Moss.
Sports StaffGlenn Klepac, Richard Szuch, Pete Bouxsein, Mike 
Berman, Joe Olfield, Bob White, Bob Walker.
Copy StaffSpence Anderson, Janis Geisler, Natalie Selkovits. 
TypistsPatti Michael, Circulation StaffBob Miller.
S*rer-i Cia** poi-tape p&i<l at Pittsburgh. Pa.
Reprt-entetl io* national aiivnUsing bj National Advertising, Inc.
Letter 
To The 
Editor
Dear Mr. Editor:
The Thistle staff wishes to an
nounce that the 1959 Thistle was 
completely sold out in the regis
tration line.
However, there are approxi
mately 90 Thistles which have 
been contracted for and not as 
yet picked up. Because the de
mand for the 1959 Thistle is sig
nificantly greater than the supply, 
we have adopted the following 
course of action.
These people who have pur
chased their 1959 Thistles and 
have paid the full price will be 
given two months from the date 
of registration to pick these books 
up (they may be obtained in the 
Deans OfficeAH 150). Those 
who placed a down payment on 
the 1959 Thistle will have one 
week (from the date of publica
tion of this letter) to pick them 
up. After such time, those 1959 
Thistles remaining will be sold 
across-the-counter on a first come 
first serve basis for a price of 
$6.00. Those unable or unwilling 
to pick up their Thistles will have 
their downpayment refunded as 
soon as the book is sold.
The Thistle staff wishes to take 
this opportunity to remind all 
Carnegie Tech students to pur
chase their 1960 Thistle and also 
to thank those who are responsible 
for having rendered the 1959 
Thistle a financially independent 
one.
Sincerely,
Lester Brickman 
Sales Manager
Kiltie Band History 
Long And Colorful
A band at Carnegie was in existence since 1910, but it 
wasnt until Red Trent, drum major, conceived the idea of 
wearing kilts and a bearskin shako in 1917, that the Kiltie 
Band came into being. He was the only member so garbed 
and the rest of the band appeared in regulation blue uniforrrj.
After the idea to costume the entire band in kilts was 
approved, funds for this purpose were raised by a special 
committee of the C.I.T. Student Council. The first 56 uni
forms, used for over a quarter century, were purchased with 
$3,000 raised by students, the athletic association and alumni 
groups in 1921-22. The first appearance of the Kiltie Band in 
full uniform took place on November 25, 1922, at the Notre 
Dame-Carnegie football game. j
Uniforms
The uniform, authentically Scottish, came from Scotland. 
The plaid is the Cameron of Erracht, which approximates 
most closely the plaid which Andrew Carnegie created for 
himself and his family. The material was imported from Scot
land for the new uniforms by way of Canada and was fash
ioned into kilts by Carnegie faculty wives.
In addition to its uniforms, instruments, and great vol
ume of music, the Kiltie Band owns a special supply of wai^i 
blankets. Concerned with the thought of bare knees exposed 
to the chilly football weather, the evening Student Council 
at Carnegie bought blankets for the band.
Bagpipers
In 1922, four professional bagpipers were hired to march 
with the band. These players were replaced by a student bag
pipe corps organized in 1941, when eight pipes were donated 
by Mrs. Robert E. Doherty, wife of the late president of t^ 
college. One of the professional pipers, Mr. Lewis Davidson, 
has stayed on as director of the student pipers on a faculty 
status. The bagpipe corps now consists of 16 pipers and drums, 
which form the first two ranks of the Kiltie Marching Band. 
All in all, the marching band, which is the largest in the 
country completely uniformed in kilts, has at present ap
proximately 110 men, including the drum major and the 
band director, Mr. George E. Reynolds. The symphonic band 
consists of the best 80 players selected on a competitive basis 
from the marching band.m
Women
World War II found a few women students in the ranks 
of the Kilties, but the outfit is exclusively masculine. As soon 
as veteran band members returned from the war, the girls 
left. (From 1944 to 1946 the Band was not in operation.)
The national attention the band has received from its 
many appearances has resulted in inquiries from high school 
and college bands throughout America. Each year the KilAj 
Band plays over 50 official engagements, which include foot
ball games, pipe corps exhibitions, lawn concerts, Carnegie 
Hall concerts, special events in nearby locales and tours.
The director of the Band, Mr. George E. Reynolds, joined 
the faculty at Carnegie Tech in 1955 as director of the Kiltie 
Band and Assistant Professor of Music. Prior to that he was 
director of the band and orchestra at the University of New 
Hampshire.
He received his bachelors degree in music at Southw*^- 
ern College and his masters degree at the Cincinnati Con
servatory of Music. In 1955 he completed residency require
ments on his doctorate in education at the University of Illi
nois. At Illinois Mr. Reynolds was solo trumpeter for the 
Illinois concert band and director of instrumental music at a 
nearby high school. During the war he was a musician in the 
U. S. Coast Guard Reserve.
C

---------------------------------------------------

I new cigarette paper discover 
air-softens every puff!
Special new HIGH POROSITY 
cigarette paper
* ' Invisible porous openings
blend fresh air with each puff for 
a softer, fresher, more flavorfvl smoke
Salem research creates a revolutionary new ciga
rette paper that breathes new refreshing softness 
and finer flavor into the smoke. Now, more than 
ever, theres Springtime freshness in every puff of 
a Salem. Smoke refreshed ... smoke Salem.
Created >>y K J. Reynold* 
Tobacco Company
menthol fresh  rich tobacco taste  modern filter, too
Wednesday, September 23, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANFake S
TgaukStrTrO\
tl
MW/i t A-/
AAIMMV
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
'iiiiitor .........................................................................................Mary Alice Peterson
Many Social Activities 
Planned For New Year
Evening Student Council and the Plaid staff welcome you 
to a new school year and the opportunities for another educa
tional experience at Carnegie Tech.
Council has planned many social activities to provide re
laxation and an opportunity for fellowship among students. 
----------------------------------------------------------? our goal this year is to encour
age more student .participation in 
these social activities so that we
Evening Sorority  j 
Extends Welcome 
To All Women
Phi Gamma Pi,Sorority extends 
a cordial welcome to all women 
attending evening school. We sin
cerely hope all of you will enjoy 
your studies at Carnegie Institute 
of Technology and that you will 
also find time in your busy sched
ules for participation in the extracurricular activities offered to all 
students.
The activities of Phi Gamma Pi 
 Sorority are primarily devoted to 
fostering friendship among wom! en evening students. Toward this 
j end you will receive invitations to 
i attend teas sponsored by the sorj ority and also by Evening Student 
Council We look forward with 
pleasure to meeting you and 
building lasting friendships among 
all students.Phi Gamma Pi 
To Hold Tea
Phi Gamma Pi officers look for
ward to a heavy calendar this 
School term. Currently they are 
^eparing the program for the 
September 27, Evening Student 
Council Tea. Jancey Spannuth and 
Daryl Zanotti will arrange decor
ations and refreshments. Betty 
June Reitz, president of the sor
ority and Ronald Craig, president 
of Evening Student Council will 
address the group on behalf of 
student participation in social ac
tivities.
In addition to the girls tea, Phi 
s*?amma Pi will have a get ac
quainted picnic and initiation of 
new members in October. A busi
ness meeting and skating party 
will be arranged in November. In 
December the Sorority plans 
their annual Christmas party.
All girls interested in Phi 
Gamma Pi sorority membership 
or in Evening Student Council ac
tivities should make every effort 
to attend the tea on Sept. 27.
become better acquainted and en
joy to a fuller extent the close 
relationship we have as students 
at Carnegie Tech.
To further acquaint students 
with members of Evening Student 
Council, the Plaid will publish a 
series of personal articles concern
ing members of Council. These 
members are at your service 
throughout the year to advise you 
of activities and assist in any 
way possible to best serve your 
interests. Do not hesitate to call 
upon them at any time they can 
be of service.
Best wishes to all of you for a 
successful year ahead.
I Trustees OK 
Amendment
The Board of Trustees of Car
negie Tech recently approved an 
amendment to the Universitys 
j charter and authorized a petition 
to the Court of Common Pleas, 
establishing a board separate and 
apart from that of Carnegie In
stitute.
Since the Boards inception, 
thirty-six trustees have served 
both Carnegie Institute and Car
negie Tech. Eighteen of them 
have also served as trustees of 
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh.
In announcing the move, James 
M. Bovard stated: It is the most 
important step taken since the in
corporation of Carnegie Institute 
of Technology in 1912. Mr. Bo
vard is both president of the In' stitute and chairman of Techs 
 board.
Separate Board
He described todays move to 
| create separate trustee organiza
tions as a beneficial development 
! which would, in the future, enable 
I Carnegie Tech to have as trustees 
a larger representation of alumni, j national educators, and prominent 
people from our community in
terested in education.
Likewise, Carnegie Institute,** 
Mr. Bovard continued, can now 
work towards a board of trustees 
with appropriate backgrounds in 
the arts and natural history and 
offering qualifications more valu
able to the purposes of the Insti
tute. 
He emphasized that there will 
be no immediate change in the 
board personnel, but as vacancies 
occur at the two institutions, re
placements will gradually build 
up organizations oriented towards 
their own special interests and 
functions.
Scotch n Soda 
Is Americas 
Outstanding 
Collegiate Musical!
NOTICE!
Iii Answer To the Many 
Inquiries - Please Be Advised 
That the Car Really and 
Truly RUNS
Remember Drawing 
Wed., Oct. 7 at 8 p.m.
Emery,
WOODLAWN PHARMACY
MOW MOPE 
THAN VCSSalem refreshes your taste

---------------------------------------------------

Fsre 6CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, September 25, 1*5
Varsity
Awards
Announced
Carnegie Tartan
Tartans
Beat
Slippery Rock
Cratsley Announces Recipients 
Of Numerous Varsity Awards
Carnegie Tech Athletic Director Mel Cratsley today an
nounced the winners of Techs athletic awards for the 1958- 
59 season.
Dick Hamilton, a senior from Warren, Pa., was honored 
as being the outstanding athlete in the school. Hamilton, a
Varsity Teams
All freshmen and upper
classmen who are interested 
in trying out as players or 
managers for the following 
teams are requested to report 
to the Athletic Office, 102 
Gymnasium:
Football, Cross Country, 
Basketball, Swimming, Rifle, 
Golf, Tennis, Track.
Bakers Boys Eke Out Victory 
Over Puncliless Rockets. 7-0
member of the track and crosscountry teams for four years, was 
also voted the most valuable 
player on the track squad. He led 
the team in scoring with 52% 
points compiled in six dual 
meets. Until the West Penn Con
ference championship meet he Midway through the first period Carnegie Tech recovthe twTmilfrun competition in ered a Slippery Rock fumble, threw a long pass, and swept 
Along with his two mile victothe end for a 7-0 lead, and for all practical purposes the game
was over. Both teams seemed determined to wear down the 
grass between midfield and Techs 30 yard line.
ries Hamilton proved versatile 
enough to chalk up wins in the 
one mile run, pole vault, and 
placed several times in the half 
mile and mile relay.
Co-Captain
He was co-captain of the West 
Penn Conference champion cross
country team and ranked as the 
second best runner on the squad. 
He is currently co-holder of the 
school record for the Tech course. 
In 1957 Dick was voted most val
uable on the cross-country team 
and co-captain of the track team. 
He graduated in June with a total 
of six varsity letters. In addition 
to his athletic efforts Dick has 
maintained a B average scholasti
cally and has been elected to four 
campus honorary societies.
He attended Harding High 
School in Warren where he let
tered in football and track, grad
uating in 1955.
Earl Benner, a 6 foot 200 pound 
tackle, was selected as most valsquad. Benner has started every 
game Carnegie has played since 
entering the school. He attended 
Swissvale High School where he 
was elected to the All-WPIAL all 
star team in his senior year. Aca
demically he ranks third in his 
class of 29 in industrial manage
ment and is in the top 13% of 
the entire graduating class of over 
700.
Andy Komer
Andy Komer, a 64 sophomore 
from Pittsburgh, is the only play
er honored who is not a senior. 
Komer was selected as the most 
valuable player on the basketball 
team as a result of his outstand
ing play last season. He scored 
334 points in 24 games while 
gathering 283 rebounds.
Other persons receiving awards 
are:
Eric Ottervik, Senior, Most Val
uable  Cross-country, East Mc
Keesport; Ross Engleman, Senior, 
Most Valuable  Swimming, 
Brackenridge, Pa.; ?Vic Polansky, 
Senior, Most Valuable, Rifle, 
Pittsburgh 18, Pa.; Gene Krygowski, Senior, Most ValuableTen
nis, East Chicago, Ind.; Fred 
Heider, Senior, Most Valuable  
Golf, Sheboygan, Wis. |
The last fifty minutes of the4 
game only underlined the already 
obvious strengths and weaknesses 
of the Tech squad. The seniors 
and juniors are few in number 
but form the nucleus of the team. 
There are a few promising fresh
men who must have more ex
perience. This means that much 
of the teams success depends on 
the large group of sophomores, 
who must fill out the starting 
units and provide reserve strength.
Zinni
As expected, Frank Zinni lead 
the team both on offense and de
fense, scoring the only touchdown 
on a six-yard sprint. Zin was 
always called on in the clutch and 
looks like the most important per
former. Jim Muth did a fine job, 
particularly on defense, but both 
he and his understudy Pete Bouxsein seem injury-prone.
The wingback was handled ade
quately enough by Pete Wilson 
and Cort Burrell. However, the 
coaches were right in lamenting 
over the fullback spot two weeks 
ago. The converted guard Gary 
Schwerzler has made rapid prog
ress but still does not seem to 
fiave learned what a hard-nosed 
fullback is. Otto Leone, a con
verted QB, seems over-anxious 
and gets himself tangled up before 
the play starts. ,
Perhaps Dale Stewart, out with 
an ankle injury, can give the 
needed inside punch. The other 
fullback Jack Sloan has seen only 
defensive duty, which he handles 
quite well.
Line
. The line has more speed this 
year, but it can not last sixty minmust be counted on heavily this 
year, left much to be desired. The 
six attempts were evenly divided 
among completions, incompletions 
and interceptions.
Ground Game
Techs ground game compared 
more favorably, but only once did 
they get anything resembling a 
sustained march under way, with 
Zinni and Burrell carrying most of 
the load.
Slippery Rock was able to move 
the ball inside the tackles and out
side the ends and threatened sev
eral times to march down the 
field. The shutout was largely due 
to the complete lack of a passing 
attack and chronic fumblitis on 
the part of the Teachers. Tech 
linemen were alert in blocking 
two jump passes and recovering 
three fumbles.
Once again Carnegie was outmanned in size and numbers. This 
will be true most of the year, but 
the squad should add at least five 
more victories in her seven re
maining games. Next week: St. 
Vincent in Pitt Stadium.
Inexperience Hurts 
Tartan Cross 
County Harriers
Techs harriers will face their
first opponents, Duquesne and the
Jeanette Harriers, on Saturday,
October 3.
At this early date, the Tartan
_ , ^ . , , , squad does not appear solid sinceutes. Replacements,re needed-for  flye men haye been workin&
Mich stalwarts as end Marty Poad, , on ,he Schenl Park course. 
tackles Mike Chuhran and Lea Bfuce Dob fifth man on last 
Crawley, and guard Gary YarWes, penn cha ion has
brough. Help should come from 
Bill Gilfillan and Len Lucas. The 
center position was handled ex
cellently by Don Monty defensive
ly and Don Schultz offensively.
years
been running all summer and ap
pears ready to step into the first 
spot.
Bill Anderson was the number 
4 runner last year behind Dick
IN 7930, AT THE 'ROSE 80WL 
EDDIE WAS A PITT  
qUAPJERBACK UNDER 
THE LAT Di?. SUTHERLANO
HE WAS BILL KERN S ASSISTANT FRTHE1*330 CIT-y?
TEAM..,
NW A PRACTICING DfNFIST 
Hr BECAME HEAD COACH IN...mg...
Tartans Home 
Football Games
The home football games this 
year are as follows:
Saturday, Sept. 26St. Vincent 
1:30 p.m. at Pitt Stadium; 
Saturday, Oct. 17Grove City 
2:00 p.m. at Forbes Field; 
Saturday, Nov. 14Westminster 
1:30 p.m. at Forbes Field. 
Admisison to games is free upon 
presentation of your student iden
tification card. Students have been 
asked to enter Pitt Stadium at 
gate No. 1 and Forbes Field at 
gate No. 30 or gate No. 31. It is 
also requested that students sit 
together to help the cheerleaders. 
As in past years, it will not be 
permissible to rope off sections 
for special groups, except the 
band.
The visiting teams are here as 
our guests. We sincerely hope that 
you will treat them as we hope to 
be treated when we visit their 
schools.
Anyone Care To 
Shoot Bullets?
In order to determine, who will 
make the varsity rifle team this 
year, a meeting in room 810 of 
the upper basement in Margaret 
Morrison will be held. All of last 
years returning riflemen and all 
new candidates are requested to 
attend the meeting which will be
gin at 4:30 on Wednesday, Sep
tember 30.
Tartan Announces 
Sports Writers
The following people are hari<* 
ling the sports coverage for the 
Tartan for the coming year.
Track.................Glenn Klepac
Cross Country .Glenn Klepac
Tennis.......................Dick Szuch
Golf............................Dick Szuch
Football ..... Pete Bouxsein 
Basketball ... Mike Berman
Swimming..........Joe Oldfield
Rifle ........................ Bob White
I
Mr. Funk&Mr. Wagnalls
Carl Vantine started at left guard 
 ..JJ .while Cris Parsons and j^rry I Hamilton, Eric Ottervik, and Bill
* Was named in both his junior Arendas shared right end assign! Whitman, w-ho all graduated,
and senior year to the All-Amerments. Freshmen seeing action Andy can be expected to push
ican Rifl Team. besides Monty were end Bob Dobras later in the season.
Following are the final records Rosche, halfback Furman Smith, Merl King, Pat Chamay, and
of all Tech teams for 1958-59: and end Pete Schlegel who did the ; Glenn Klepac are the other vetpenn. Conf. over-u piace-kicking. eran members of the team. King
Carnegie was not particularly was ineligible last year after aFootball .........1Crosscountry ... 6 
Swimming ...2
Rifle ..................Basketba U ... 5 
Tdints ......I
Golf ................
Track .............*
TOTALS .... 38
0197013
13
9
8
1299
8
2
63
131
15
2
2
531
good 1957 season.
T 
2
0 ! impressive either offensively or 
o i defensively against the teachers. The harriers are presently withj The only offense of note was the out guidance, but understandably
0 I long aerial from Muth to Burrell so since coach Dick Swaney has
1 which set up Techs score. Othernot yet returned from his honey11 wise the passing attack, which [ moon.
**In re this matter of Good Taste, said Mr. Funk to his secretary, take a definition.1* 
Taste: sensations ... excited ... by the. action of the gustatory nerves ...
And add this, put in Mr. Wagnalls. Taste: the faculty of... appreciating the beautiful...",
That, said Mr. Funk, wraps it up. Mr. Wagnalls, will you join me in a Coca-Cola?** 
So good in taste .. .**
And ... in such good taste!SIGN OF GOOD TASTE
Bottled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
QUAKES STATS COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. 
tin Central Ar. Ul 1-791L
*

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, September 23, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPake 7
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Becomes 
First To Win the IM Trophy
Softball was the sport which climaxed the rather ragged 
intramural schedule of last year. The results of the playoffs 
decided the winner of the IM trophy.
The six points SAE received for placing second in the 
final sport was enough to out point ATO, 41 points to 37VL>- 
ATO had led during most of thc^  
season.
The 10 points SN received in 
softball was enough to place them 
third in the race for the trophy 
with 26 V2 points.
SAE Firsts 
SAE took firsts in volleyball, 
co-rec volleyball, and swimming, 
seconds in track, rifle, co-rec bad
minton, and softball, third in 
bridge, and fourth in foul shootj ing.
The winners in other major in
tramural sports are as follows: 
Met Grads in football, Falcons in
basketball, and Obelisks in bowl
ing.
The trophy supposedly repre
sents the best intramural organi
zation on campus.
Final Point Standings
1. SAE........................................41
2. ATO ..................................37 Vfe
3. SN ......................................26 >/2
4. Englishmen .........................18
5. Obelisk..............................16
6. BSR ......................................14
7. KS ..........................................12
8. TDP ......................................10
8. MG ....................................10
8. Falcons.................................10
Tartan Deadlines 
And Advertising
Individuals wishing to place 
notices or items of interest in the 
Tartan should submit them be
fore 7:00 p.m. on the Friday preceeding the Wednesday of publi
cation. A very limited amount of 
material can be accepted at late 
as 2:00 p.m. on Sunday; however, 
the Tartan should be contacted 
beforehand.
Advertising for the Tartan will 
be handled by the Advertising 
Manager, Miles Helander, MU 2- 
8851. Advertising rates may also 
be obtained from the Business 
Manager, Lee Adelsberg, EM 1- 
1617.
Basketball
Meetings
Freshmen  Wednesday, 
September 23; Varsity  
Thursday, September 244:30 
p.m.Gymnasium.
Players and Managers.
pi O D L 
Tech girls cheering at varsity and intramural football games.Do K>u Think-foriburself?
(SHARPEN YOUR WITS ON THIS!*)
Jim Swisher Pitches Sigma Nu To 
Their Second Softball Champion
ship In His Three Years of Play
>The first game of the softball play-offs last year pitted the 
champions-to-be, SN, against the usual scrappy TDP team. 
The game was a seesaw battle, but SN finally came out on top, 
6-5. Although Wolf son starred for the Tau Delts, Charley 
Maddrey put on an even better show driving in 4 runs to?----------------------------------------------------give SN a victory.
The second game found SAE 
playing the unbeaten GSIA nine. 
GSIA maintained a 2-0 lead until 
the bottom of the sixth when Bob 
Mifer tied the game up with his 
2-run single. GSIA did not score 
in the final inning, nor did they 
support their fine left-handed 
pitcher as the SAEs scored to win 
the game 3-2.
.Third Game
The third game of the playoffs 
was the leadoff game in the semi
finals. The Delts jumped to a 
quj^c 2-0 lead only to find SAE 
returning a slap with their two 
runs. Again, the Delts jumped in
to the lead with another 2 runs. 
By the fifth inning, the Delts led 
9-4. A determined SAE squad 
scored 6 runs in the sixth and 5 
in the seventh to win the slugfest 
14-9. Vodvarkas four hits and 
Rebers clutch pitching in the 
final three innings helped SAE, 
while Kelleys and Spohns hom
er,'-gfnelped the Delts gather their 
quick leads.
The fourth game ended the 
semi-finals and the SNs squeaked 
out another victory. The New
man Club looked like a cinch to 
win the garrfe as they led 4-3 go
ing into the bottom of the sev
enth. However, two fly balls that 
were dropped in the outfield put 
men in scoring position. Charley 
Maddrey then singled against the 
ne^ pitcher who had come in to 
give SN another victory.
The consolation game, the fifth 
match, found the Delts playing 
against the Newman Club. While 
the Newman Club was out to 
avenge their previous mistakes, 
the Delt Club looked tired. The 
final score was very one-sided in 
favor of the Newman Club. Har
ry Fumea had two homers for 
NC.
Final Game
The sixth and final game match
ed SN against SAE. Tbe game was 
a real seesaw affair which ended 
in a tie 6-6. In the eighth inning, 
SN scored 2 runs to lead 8-6. The 
SAEs looked as they were going 
to retaliate as the first two men 
got on base. Haggaret was at bat, 
and Vodvarka who had three hits 
and a walk was on deck. Haggart smashed a hard liner up the 
middle which Swisher caught in 
self-defense, wheeled around and 
threw to Maddrey covering second 
who stepped on second base and 
tagged Tony Smith coming into 
second. Thus, a triple play gave 
Sigma Nu the championship. It 
was the third consecutive season 
that SAE came in second in soft
ball.
Final MVPs 
Of Last Year
The end of last years softball 
season brought the termination of 
the all-school selections. Three 
men repeated as members on the 
all-school softball team. They 
were Dick Spohn, Delt second 
baseman, Bob Reber, SAE pitch
er, and Phil Wicklander, Phi Kap 
catcher.
Rounding out the rest of the 
team were Bob Patten, and TX 
first baseman, Chuck Vodvarka, 
SAE shortstop, and Tony Petran, 
GSIA third baseman. The trio in 
the outfield were all new, al
though two of the previous years 
all-school outfield returned. Paul 
Grecdo replaced Phi Kap team
mate Mike Daugherty in one spot, 
Chris Parsons, SN, replaced 
Whitey Mueller, SAE, in another, 
while Harry Fumea, NC, took over 
the third spot. Jim Swisher be
came the MVP in softball for his 
second time in three years as he 
led the SN team to the school 
championship.
Final Selections
The final selections in softball 
placed two more men on the list 
of those who made two or more 
all-school teams during the year. 
Both are SAEs who returned for 
this year, Chuck Vodvarka and 
Bob Reber. The only other athlete 
to accomplish this feat last year 
was Bob Rapp of the Met Grads.
The most valuable intramural 
athlete of the year was Dick 
Spohn, a Delt senior last year. He 
received his award at the Spring 
Carnival last year.
The Man Who Thinks for Himself Knows -
ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MANS FILTER... A SMOKING MANS TASTE I
C19M, Brow* * Wtllf mil ToUm Cant.
If you saw a girl in a bathing suit on a ski slope, 
would you say, (A) Whatno skis? or (B)
Cold? or (C) The pool closed three months 
ago, or (D) Stay right hereIll get the guard! A[] B[] C [] D I I
When you choose a filter 
cigarette, do you (A) ask all 
your friends, and take their 
word for whats best? (B) 
take the one that makes 
the loudest claim? (C) in
vestigate the facts, then use 
your own judgment? (D) 
go for the filter that gives 
you taste plus filtering?
AD B ? C ? D ?
Its a wise smoker who depends on his own 
judgment, not opinions of others, in his 
choice of cigarettes. That is why men and 
women who think for themselves usually
Do you think the statement 
Its always darkest before 
the dawn is (A) an astro
nomical truism? (B) a good 
reason for getting home 
early? (C) a piece of hope
ful philosophy? (D) an argu
ment for night watchmen?
AD B ? C ? D ?
Do you think that a man 
who can pole-vault 16 feet 
but doesnt like to, should 
(A) go out and do it any
way? (B) keep the whole 
thing to himself? (C) do a 
bit of self-analysis on why 
he doesnt like to go so high? 
(D) have the bar set lower?
A ? B ? C ? D ?
smoke VICEROY. They know only 
VICEROY has a thinking man's filterthe 
filter with more research behind it than, 
any other . . . the filter that changed 
Americas smoking habits. And only 
VICEROY has a smoking man's taste.
*If you have checked (D) in three out of four 
questions, you're pretty sharp... but if you 
picked (C)man, you think for yourself!

---------------------------------------------------

Page SCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, September SS. 1959
U'-.
rvr^these I 
Slide Rules 
are your best buy
see them at your college storel
Fastest to Learn, Fastest to Use! Thats the famous K&E 
Decitrig scale system  preferred by engineers and fea
tured by both these K&E Slide Rules. This system gives you 
all the scales youll need ... arranged without troublesome 
complications. It never contradicts itself... every scale re
lates  consistently  to the basic C and D scales. Numbers 
are color-coded for easy reading in both directions: black 
reads left to right, red reads right to left.
Efficient... Versatile - With the K&E Decitrig scale sys
tem you can find square-root values quickly, without stop
ping to reset. Theres no confusion  direct functions always 
appear on like colors, co-functions on opposite colors. Get 
the benefits of these clear, simple, efficient scales on either 
of the two K&E Decitrig Slide Rules  the K&E Jet-LogDuplex Decitrig or the K&E Log Log Duplex Decitrig. 
Both come with a lifetime guarantee.
The Jet-Log is made of handsome, durable Ivorite, and
comes complete with a smart top-grain cowhide case and 
a detachable belt-loop carrier. And youll get a manual 
for easy self-instruction or between-classes reference ... a 
handsome library-bound book you can keep for years.
The Log Log Duplex Decitrig ... an instrument of unques* 
tionable quality. Its made of choicest mahogany - ruth* 
lessly selected, seasoned for years. Its graduations are 
engine-divided  deeply, accurately engraved. The most re
spected slide rule made, and yours complete with chamoislined leather case, belt-loop carrier, and library-bound 
instruction manual.
Get the Factsabout K&E Slide Rules, plus drawing instru
ments and other supplies youll needin these two handy 
K&E bookletsSlide Rule? May I 
help... and the 1959-60 K&E College 
Buying Guide. Both are yours, free at 
your college store. Pick them up today!
rvrKEUFFEL & ESSER CO.
NEW YORK  HOBOKEN. N. >.  DETROIT  CHICAGO  MILWAUKEE  ST. LOUIS  DALLAS  DENVER  SAN FRANCISCO  IOS AORES  SEATTLE
Sports In The Golden Era
By Tom Bei;
Lets take a look back at some 
highlights of a very interesting 
period of sports at Carnegie Tech 
the transition period from the 
days of football glory through 
the de-emphasis of varsity sports.
Through the late 1920s and the 
30s Tech was regarded as a na
tional football power almost every 
fait. The 1926 team is generally 
regarded as Techs strongest of 
the strongthat was the ypar that 
sophomore Howard Harpster led 
the Tartans to an upset victory 
over a Knute Rocknes Notre 
Dame power and Lloyd Yoder 
was named an All-American 
Tackle. Tech outscored its op
position 207 to 23. beating such 
teams as Pitt and West Virginia, 
while losing to N.Y.U. and be
lieve it or not, W&J.
But the late 30s can rightfully 
be called the period when sports 
hit their peak here. In 1937 the 
Plaid once again up-ended a pre
viously unbeaten Notre Dame 
team, transforming a 2-5-1 record 
into a successful season, against 
such foes as Michigan State, Pur
due, Pitt, and Holy Cross. The 
next two years Tech lost the final 
games of its Notre Dame rivalry,
7-0 and 7-6. In that 1939 season, 
a small but lively trainload of 
Tech students accompanied the 
team to New York City for the 
N.Y.U. game in Yankee Stadium.
Lambert Trophy 1938
Perhaps the greatest honor giv
en to a Carnegie Tech team was 
the Lambert Trophy, awarded to 
the sports writers choice for. the 
strongest team in the East, re
ceived by Tech in 1938. The Kil
ties journeyed to the Sugar Bowl
during the holidays, but lost to 
T.C.U., 15-7. Techsters Ray Con
nelly, Jack Lee, and Don Camp
bell played in the annual College 
All-Stars versus Pro-Champions 
benefit game following that year.
But Carnegies national powers 
werent restricted to the gridiron. 
Techs rifle team, still strong to
day, placed second in the 1939 
N.R.A. small-bore national cham
pionship, losing to Navy by a 
score of 1891-1971. Harold Breens 
nomination to the All-American 
roster previewed John Herrs sim
ilar accomplishments of 1955-56, 
and Russ McMillan was named to 
the All-American second team.
In those days the rifle team was 
awarded a major letter for an ex
ceptionally fine season, and that 
award was earned four times in 
the eight years before and in
cluding that season.
Soccer, Hockey, Baseball
The" level of enthusiasm for 
sports in the late 30s is further 
shown by the organization and 
existence of teams in soccer, hoc
key, and baseball. A soccer team 
was begun in 1936, and scored
an unimpressive record. With 
little pre-season practice and in
eligibility problems, the boqters 
surprised 1937 fans with a win
ning record and remained a pow
er in western Pennsylvania until 
their dissolution late in the 1940s.
Tech also had a strong winter 
sport besides basketball and 
swimming in hockey, until it 
also was discontinued toward 
mid-century. Baseball was less 
fortunate than other sports in that 
it lasted only one season. Or
ganized in 1937, it was refused 
permission to use Techs name by 
the athletic council, and baseball 
has been unheard of thereafter.
In the early 40s Tech, like 
many smaller schools throughout 
the U.S., realized it could no 
longer support a big-time foot
ball team and began de-emphasis. 
In 1943, the Kilties met only five 
opponents, since many schools 
were dropping varsity atlhetics 
for the duration of World War
II. The Kiltie Band bolstered its 
ranks that year with an unpre
cedented addition of three female 
marchers. Tech also discontinued
football the next season when 29 
candidates turned out, only elev
en of whom had played the game 
before.
Post War
The Fall of 1946 saw a world 
once again without war and a 
mass restitution of varsity sports 
at C.I.T.
Football stormed back under 
coach Bill Donohoe to a perfect 
record; won-none, tied-none, 
points scored-none. Almost marr
ing the flawless record, Tech 
threatened twice, once reaching 
the 9-yard line. Mike Theodore, 
today the Tartans freshman 
coach, returned from the Army to
star on the basketball court a$]  
sophomore. The swimming team 
picked up its perennialy strong 
performance right away, and 
coach Halfertzs first cross-coun
try squad in three years brought 
home the best harrier record in 
many years.
De-emphasis was made com
plete in 1948 with the elimina
tion of all major foes from n 
football schedule so that all op
ponents were in Techs class. The 
process however, is actually still 
going on. The rivalries with Le
high, begun in 1948, and Lafay
ette were discontinued in 1955 
and 56.
JUST R REMINDER . . .
Golden fold's Market
IS NOW IN OPERATION WITH A COMPLETE LINE OF 
THE FINEST SELECT
Groceries and Choice Mecrfs
At 414 S. Craig Street
WITH PERSONAL and COURTEOUS SERVICE
VISIT US FOR ALL YOUR NEEDS
MARTIN GOLDENFELO. Prop.
Slide Rule ? 
May I help. ..
IM Football 
Season Begins
There is a bright outlook for
this years IM football campaign. 
However, last years champs, the 
Met Grads, will return with equal, 
if not more, strength than last 
year.
Their only loss was Bob Rapp, 
an all-school end. However, they 
picked up John Murphy, an allschool back from last years in
tramural squads.
Last years runner-up, ATO; 
lost everything but Billy Novak, 
a fine defensive all-school half
back. However, a strong group of 
B team players and new mem
bers will give the joy boys an
other strong team.
Kappa Sigrma
The third place team, KS, like 
ATO, lost everything but Bill 
Raleigh and John Scango, two all
school players. Similiarly, KS 
picked up several B" team play
ers and new members to make 
them strong again.
Lynn Adams is trying hard to 
shape up the Citcom team that 
went undefeated in league play last 
year, but he has a hard job facing 
him since he lost eight players 
and has no source for obtaining 
new fellows.
Sigma Nu will produce another 
good squad this year for they 
suffered only minor losses. Karl 
Mandry will lead a better than 
average team throughout the sea
son.SAE
SAE lost nobody from last 
years A' team which had the 
unfortunate luck of being in the 
same league with ATO and the 
Met Grads. Chuck Vodvarka and 
Ray Nix, two all-school players 
for the past two years, return to 
bolster a rather rugged squad.
The Tau Delts return with their 
scrappy aggregation, but suffered 
two major losses from last years 
team. Both returning quarterbacks 
dropped out of school, and Bimbo 
Roth, last years captain, is play
ing for the Obelisks.
This should be a big year for 
intramural football.
