GAMBOL OF THE GUILDS 
FKIDAY NIGHT 
UNION 9:00 OCLOCK!
JUNIATA VS. CAKNEGIE 
WEDNESDAY, 3:30 P. M. 
SCHENLEY OVAL
VOL. XIX No. 27CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1925
TO CAST FIRST BALLOT FOR 
CAMPUS QUEEN THURSDAY
Selected as Carneoies Fairest
Fifteen Most Eligible Senior 
Co-eds Will Be 
Selected
TO HOLD SECOND 
PRIMARY APRIL 30
Stuffing the Ballot Will Be 
Carefully Guarded 
Against
Thursday, the day after tomorrow, 
two days after today will mark the 
first primary for the Campus Queen 
election. In this balloting fifteen 
girls will be selected from the Sen
ior class, and every student is entit
led to one vote with beauty, person
ality/ and0 interest in Carnegie, the 
important factors in determining our 
Queen.
Partisan spirit, though divided, is 
running high, and balloting will be 
heavy. The girls in charge, how
ever, are determined that the affair 
will not be lopsided, and so each per
son can vote only once, his or her 
name being checked off on the com
pletion of said deed. Grave consider
ation should be given to the election 
of Carnegie's fairest, to be crowned 
at mid-night in the sylvan theater 
during the joyous > days of Campus 
Week.
After the votes h.we been counted, 
there will be fifteen queens, to many 
for any deck. Therefore on April 30, 
a second primary will be held to re
duce the number to three. From 
these three Carnegie must select the 
triumphant beauty, the Queen to be. 
By this series of eliminations a good 
choice is certain to be made, and time 
will be given for the judges, who 
are the individual students, to think 
deeply and choose wisely.
Fourteen beauties will remain
GENERAL ASSEMBLY TO
BE HELD NEXT TUESDAY
Following the interest showTn by the 
student body in its attendance at the 
last general assembly a great crowd 
is expected next Tuesday.
Obie Newman, in charge of the en
tertainment, promises a diversified 
program, part of which he refuses to 
divulge. It is known, however, that 
Warren Kimball and Zabelle Davies 
and Ruth Aston will dance and sing. 
The known ability of these perform
ers should persuade every student to 
attend this assembly.
INVITE PUBLIC FOR 
EXHIBITION NIGHT
All School Buildings Will Be 
Thrown Open For In
spection
STUDENTS TO WORK
The annual exhibition, the occasion 
when all departments are thrown 
open to the public of Pittsburgh for 
inspection, will be held by Carnegie 
Institute of Technology this year on 
Friday evening, April 24. As in the 
past, the exhibition will be free, and 
an elaborate program of exhibits has 
already been planned.
Of special interest will be the op
portunity of seeing the students at 
work on scientific experiments and 
practical demonstrations in the labor
atories, shops and studios. In addijn jtion to the work being performed that
fourteen uncrowned queens, glorious 
in defeat. They will serve as will
ing handmaids atthe coronation, so 
no disappointment need be felt by 
any of the candidates for all will have 
a part in the festivities. How won
derful to be the Queen, to reign a 
monarch of a great college in its hap
piest days, but still more wonderful 
to be a loyal subject of such a luler.
In other days when ladles were in 
contest the victor was decided by 
Continued on Page Two.)
32 Plebes Exempt 
From Regulations
Exemptions Given as Awards 
For Best Costumes
Some of the cleverest costumes 
since Carnegie has observed All 
Fools Day appeared March 31. More 
Freshmen were exempted from regu
lations than were allotted to the four 
schools; however such originality de
served exemption. There were never 
interpretations of the ancient and 
modern soukoette, plebe-soph skits, 
muscle pound men, illicit lilcker, and 
numerous humorous and revamped 
attires.
After trials and more trials, the 
more fortunate Freshmen were final
ly selected. The Kiltie band, without 
kilts, led a parade along Woodlawn 
avenue to the Margaret Morrison 
building. The fortunate fools were 
photographed while the band played 
near harmony. Don Wilson was right
fully crowned King of Fools by virtue 
of his innate humor and his ludicrous 
costume, apparently depicting a Padegonian peasant. During the lengthy 
crowning the king thrived on toma
toes and carrots while distributing 
lettuce among his courtiers. The 
crown didn't fit the king and the king 
didnt fit the throne. It is still doubt
ful who is King of Fools, there being 
so many competitors.
Thirty-five were exempted from 
Freshmen regulations:
Margaret Morrison: Soma Wein
berg, Sidney Gibson, Leah Milkman, 
Lucille Galmisch, Sarah Shookey, 
Cartherine Wyman, Marjorie Snodgr;
night by the students, special exhibits 
will be displayed to represent the kind 
and scope of work undertaken in each 
department.
A gown exhibit by the Costume Eco
nomics Departmnet will be one of the 
features in the Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie College. Other attractions 
will be exhibits of misroscopic work 
and a general biology exhibit in the 
Department of General Science in the 
womens college; demonstrations of 
weaving work, and demonstrations of 
olub activities by the students in so
cial work.
The Department of Mining Engi
neering will again exhibit the mine 
which is located beneath the Science 
Building. The mine, which includes 
a tunnel, a complete equipment of 
trolley trucks, drilling and boring ap
paratus, has attracted thousands of 
interested visitors in former years.
A four-room brick bungalow, built 
by both the day and night students 
of Building Construction is a special 
attraction in the College of Industries. 
Special demonsliatlon of students at 
work in this college will be given in 
the Foundry, Forge, Machine, Print
ing, Carpentry, Plumbing, Welding 
and Sheet Metal Shops, and in the 
electrical, radio, meter and Chemical 
laboratories.
For the entertainment of visitors to 
the College of Fine Arts, the program 
will include two musical recitals by 
students of the Department of Music, 
and the productionof two perform
ances of a one-act play by W. S. Gil
bert, by the students of Drama. There 
will be exhibitions of architectural 
and art work in the various exhibition 
rooms, and in the studios, students 
will be at work developing problems 
in connection with their regular work.
The new gymnasium, with its sepa
rate facilities for men and women 
students, and its large swimming pool 
will be one of the most interesting at
tractions to this years visitors.
The most recent addition to the 
group of buildings is the new Car
negie Inn, which was formerly the 
athletic field house and is now oper
ated by the Institute as a cafeteria 
and restaurant for the students. The 
Inn will also be open for inspectionArts: Don McClure, Ben Ade, Ber
nard Wagner, O. E. Norbech, John | and the grill room will be open for 
(Continued on Page Three.) service to the visitors until midnight.
Many Valuable Fellowships Are
Now Offered to College Graduates
The Institute has received letters 
and circulars concerning fellowships 
that are offered by. various founda
tions and universities. As some of 
these may be of interest to seniors, 
brief items concerning the awards 
are listed below. Aditiqnal informa
tion can be secured from Dean Tarbell.
COLLEGIATELY SPEAKING 
IS CAMPUS WEEK COMEDY
ANNE WITTUMELIZABETH KEEFERMARY SPEERS!
ELECTIONS FOR S.C. 
PRESIDENT TO-DAY
Class Elections For Next Year 
Will Be Held During 
Next Week
DONT FORGET TO VOTE
Candidates for president of t.he 
Student Council will be elected at 
noon today in each of the four 
schools. The polls will be open from 
11:30 to 1:30, and everyone is re
quested to vote early so that the last 
minute rushes may be avoided.
It is traditional at Carnegie that 
all students cast their ballots on elec
tion day, in oi'der that the choices 
may be more representative. Tho 
last presidential election brought 
forth an excellent slogan that is very 
pertinent today, "Vote as you ploase, 
but vote.
On April, one of the four candi
dates will be elected by the council 
as its president for the ensuing year. 
In accordance with the recent amend
ment passed by the student body at 
the last .general assembly, the candi 
date receiving the second highest 
number of votes will become vice 
president.
Barbara White, Rebecca Pontius, 
and Estelle Garibaldi are the nomi
nees from Margaret Morrison, Earl 
Wheeler, Russell Roller, Mike Good
win and Lloyd Yoder from Arts, Joe 
Raddln, Jim OConnor, and Jack Har
ris from Science, and Dwight Beede, 
Allan . Cass, Ray Gill, and Ben Kris* 
tof from Industries.
In the ovcnt of a tie, a revote will 
be taken during this week.
EMPLOY NEW MARKING 
SYSTEM THIS SEMESTER
Guggenheim Memorial Foundation:
Fellowships for advanced study 
abroad, appointees to be between 25 
and 35 years of age. Value ?2,500 a 
year. Open to candidates who have 
embarked upon some important piece 
of work and show exceptional apti
tude for research, or who demon
strate ability in some one of the fine 
arts. First award to be for 1926- 
1927.
The Kahn Foundation: Fellow
ships for the foreign travel of Amer
ican teachers. PurposeTo enable 
men of. proved intellectual attain
ments to enjoy during one year or 
more, sufficient leisure and freedom 
from all professional pursuits or pre
occupations, to enter into personal 
contact with men and countries they 
might otherwise never have known. 
The stipend for the Kahn Fellowship 
to be awarded for 1925-1926 is 
$5,000.
American Council of Eoucation: i
Graduate Scholarships at the Univer
sities of Bordeaux, Lyons, Nancy, | 
Strasbourg and Toulouse. Subjects 
include physics, chemistry and elec
trical engineering. Value, free tui
tion, board and lodging, also 30 per 
cent rebate on both passages.
Tufts College: Braker Graduate
Teaching Fellowships in Commerce 
(Continued on Page Two.)
For the past several years the fol
lowing requirements concerning qual
ity points have been in effect: fresh
men must obtain 150 quality points 
and upper classmen at least 175 qual 
ity points in each semester. On Feb 
ruary 22nd the Educational Senate 
approved the following change which 
revises the regulations quoted above.
1. All re-examinations for raising 
quality points shall be abolished.
2. In order to be eligible for grad
uation the student shall be required 
td have earned at the end of the se
nior year a number of quality points 
amounting to three times the number 
of units (work hours) taken.
3. No quality points earned in any 
year may be used to remove a short
age in quality points incurred in suc
ceeding years, but a shortage in qual
ity points incurred in any year may 
be removed by a surplus of quality 
points acquired in any succeeding 
years. The basis of computation in 
determining a shortage or an excess 
in quality points for any one year 
shall be three times the number of 
units taken in that year.
4. Advanced standing students are 
to be held to quality point require
ments only on work done in the Car
negie Institute of Technology.
These regulations are to he made 
effective at once except that any of 
the. candidates for graduation at the 
1925 Commencement who may have 
prepared for a re-examination to raise 
quality points, and who wish to take 
the re-examlnation, are allowed to do 
so.
TO HOLD SERVICES FOR
DEATH OF CHINESE RULER
Services for the death of Dr. Sun, 
first president of the Chinese repub
lic, who died last month, will be held 
by the local Chinese students.
The services will be held at the 
Second Presbyterian Church, Eighth 
and Penn avenue, at 2:30 on Sunday, 
April 19.
The principal speaker will be Judge 
Buffington of the United States Cir
cuit court.
Any Carnegie students, as well as 
faculty members, who may be inter
ested, are invited to attend, and are 
assured of a hearty welcome.
Anne Wittum of FineArt Wins 
Beauty Contest Judged 
By Noted Artists
WINNER DECIDED 
BY POINT SYSTEM
Elizabeth Keefer Awarded 
Second Place; Mary Speers, 
Third, is M. M. Leader
The results of Carnegies annual 
beauty contest have been made known 
by Kline (Fulmer, who has charge of 
the contest. The results are as fol
lows:
Anne Wittum of tho College of Fino 
Arts, is acclaimed winner of the beauty 
contest, having a total of 15 points. 
Elizabeth Keefer, also of the College 
of Fine Arts, is awarded socond 
place, with a total of 13 points. Marjj 
Speers, a Margaret Morrison girl, is 
awarded third place,, with a total of
10 points. Mary -rulmnim -Is given 
fourth place, with 7 points. Elizabeth 
Lenalmn fifth place, with 6 points, and 
Virginia Slobert sixth placo, with 5 
points. The last throo mentioned are 
all Margaret Morrison girls. Eliza
beth Landsay and Margaret Vance of 
the Collogo of Fine Arts are given 
seventh and eighth places, rospectlvoly. Miss Wittum, then, 1ms the dis
tinction of being the most beautiful 
Sonlor girl on the Carnegie campus.
The judges ror tins contest wore 
three well-known artists, 'Pony Sarg, 
Charles D. Williams and Harrison 
Fisher. Tho plcturos of tho twent.vflve most beautiful Seniors were sent 
to these men In turn, who then so(CoDtinuod on Page Four.)
Kilties Eastern Trip 
One Grand Triumph
Band Parades Before 50,000 
in Quaker City
The grand triumphal march of the 
Kiltie Band, under the direction of 
E. F. Sully Sullivan, and David S. 
Garber, student manager, is over. 
Playing before large and sympathetic 
audiences in Johnstown, I-Iarrisburg, 
Philadelphia and Montclair, New Jer
sey, the Plaid clad musicians blazed a 
trail that will not fade in many a day. 
The forty hustlers who participated 
have returned, and are plugging away 
at their old routine laborsbut their 
music still echoes in many hearts, 
and the image of the brilliant Plaid 
still recalls happy school days to 
many loyal Carnegians in the east. 
Already several letters of commenda
tion have been received by the alum
ni office and Mr. Garber, expressing 
hopes for return engagements next 
year.
The Kilties private car left Pitts
burgh last Monday morning. In their 
first concert, at Johnstown, they play
ed before a rather small but highly 
appreciative audience. A half hour 
dinner concert was broadcasted from 
radio station WTAC.
Arriving at Harrisburg about noon, 
the boys spent the afternoon visiting 
the capital buildings. They were 
given a hearty personal welcome by 
Governor Pinchot and several other 
officials. At -1:15 they played for the 
junior high students In the Chestnut 
Street Auditorium. In the evening 
the band drew a crowd of 1,700, who 
were delighted with the concert. The 
Kiltie Orchestra, a recent . popular 
addition to tho band, played for a 
dance following the concort, under the 
leadership of Lewis Jones.
Philadelphia was the scene of the 
greatest success. The boys paradod 
before a crowd estimated at 50,000, 
then broadcasted an hour concert 
from station WLIT. In the evening 
a concert and dance were held In the 
New Century Drawing Room, after 
which a number of the band went 
on the air from station WCAU.
The band arrived in New York City 
Thursday noon. After a very enjoy
able sight-seeing trip, they played 
for the radio audience from WEAF, 
one of the most powerful stations in 
(Continued on Page Two.)
COUNTRY FAIR DATE 
SET FOR SAT. MAY 6
Site May Be Woodlawn and 
Forbes or CutGreased 
Pig to Feature
TOKENS TO BE GIVEN
In days of yore tho Country Fair 
was the place where all tho products 
of tho community wero exchanged, 
and all tho blooming Thespians pre
sented their tragi-comedios to amuse 
tho work-drugged people. Saturday 
afternoon, May 16, Carnogie will re
produce, nay Introduce, a Collogo 
Country Fair. *
I-Iorsos, which according to tholr 
owners are somo nags but. which 
masquerade under the Illustrations 
nomenclature of oquostrlan monarchs, will prance madly, while cat
tle, guaranteed to bring tears of joy 
to any lonosomo fanner girl or hoy, 
will amblo blissfully noarby. Glisten
ing white touts dotting tho campus 
green, will house tho stunts, skits, 
offerings, displays, and what, nots of 
tho fratornltios, clubs, nnd classes.
But wlmt would a Country Fair bn 
without a greasod pig? A porkod 
must bo had. It Is so nocossary that 
special arrangements havo boon made 
for the Nurmi of tho Chicago stock
yards to arrive on tho Important date, 
and offer himself to the tender mer
cies of tho students. This Is ono 
race lotter men may enter, and It Is 
promised that tho victor and the prize 
will not bo photographed togothor.
Lest somo orslwhllo trader bo donelved as was Mosos by tho silver 
spoctaclos In tho days of Goldsmith, 
all barter will bo prohibited, nnd any 
one with commercial designs will ho 
referred to the Ice cream stands on 
(Continued on Pago Two.)
ARCHITECTS GET THREE 
BEAUX ARTS MENTIONS
SATURDAY NITE DANCE
IN UNION THIS WEEK
The spring dunce of the Carnegie 
Mechanical Engineers Society will bo 
held Saturday, April IS, in the Union. 
This is the first big social affair of 
the year for tho Mechanicals,  and 
.with the faculty nnd student momhors of the society behind it, a suc
cess is assured.
The identity of the orchestra has 
not yet been disclosod, but according 
to A. Stieglor It will bo the best lo
cal orchestra that can bo secured.
This dance, though run by tho 
Mechanicals, Is an all-school affair 
just as the regular Saturday night 
dances sponsored by tho Student 
.Council.
HOLD GUILD FROLIC 
THIS FRIDAY NIGHT
Melody Lane Orchestra to 
Play For Gambol of the 
Guilds in the Union
CARNEGIE INVITED
The fifth annual Gambol of the 
Guilds will bo hold Friday, April 17. 
In tho Union. The hours will bo from 
nine to ono and the Faculty Club room 
will be openod to thoso who attend. 
Tho assessment is two dollars.
The commlttoe has beon busy for 
sevoral months, making tho plans for 
this dnnco. Tho program for tho 
evening will consist of sovornl dis
tinctive novoltlos and favors will bo 
distributed to all. Tho Union will bo 
attractively decorated and there will 
bo rofroshmonts of a nature fit for 
kings. Tho "Molody Lano" orchestra 
has boon soourod and will Introduce 
a ropertolro of nnlmutod and ltoon 
dance music. This orchostra is not 
well known on tho campus. However, 
It has proved qulto popular whore It 
has played to Carnegie audiences.
As most of Carnoglo knows, tho 
Gambol of the Guilds Is tho annual 
frolic of tho Industries mon and was 
originally tholr oxoluslvo affair. Now, 
however, all tho four schools nro In
vited to join them in tholr good time, 
'lhls year, by dint of tho hard work 
of tho commlttoo, tho Guilds dance 
promlsos to outdo Itsolf and surpass 
its reputation of former years.
C. O. CARTER TO LECTURE ON
CHEMICAL EQUIPMENT FRIDAY
Ten students of architecture, won 
honors In two problems conducted by 
the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design in 
New York.
James W. Paul won First Mention 
placed in the Class B problem of a 
plan for a "lobby of a bank and of
fice building; William S. Forsyth, 
was awarded a First Mention in the 
same problems; and Bronson B. Luty, 
won a First Mention in the analytique problem to design the nave 
of a church.
Other awards to Carnegie stu
dents in the Class B problem were: 
First Mention Placed, Charles A. 
Markley; First Mention, Edward A. 
Pauly, Harold L. Schwartz, Ray V. 
Harldess and Arnold Perreton.
In the Analytique problem, the Car
negie students to receive honors were 
Leo V. Twohig, who was awarded 
First Mention Placed, and Rufus A. 
Zortman, who won a First Mention.
Carnegie received two out of a to-1 
tal of six places given in the Class B 
problem, Yale, Atelier Corbett-Koyl, 
Illinois and Ohio receiving one each. 
In the Analytique, Carnegie received 
one place out of four awarded, the 
others going to Illinois, Southern 
California, and Catholic University of 
Washington. First Mention Placed 
Is the highest award made, and First 
Mention Is the next highest.
Tho flrst of a noria of Ilvo pubi lo 
locturos glvon undor tho jolnt ami* 
picea of Ilio Chemical Equlpmont Ausocla'tlou of New York City and Car
noglo GA nnnouncod for noxt Frlday 
night, Aprii 17, whon C. O. Carter, 
Consulting.Englnoor, Lindo Air Pro
duci Company, wlll disonni! "'l'ho 
Importunco to Imluslry of Proporly 
Doslgnod Chemical Equlpmont." Mr. 
Carter Is also proshlont of tho Chem
ical Equlpmont Assoclatlon.
The coming sorlos, scbodulod durIng th lattor part of Aprii and in 
May, lina boon arrangod for tho bene
fit prlmarlly of Pittsburgh dlstrlct 
ohomists, although each of th locturca wlll ho opon to any ono intorested. Each discussimi wlll ho glvon 
at 8:30 In foom 218, of tho Science 
building.
ISSUE STAGE-SCREEN
PUPPET THIS WEEK
The noxt isuse of the Puppet
> which comes out this week, will *
 be the Stage and Screen number. -tThe Stage and Screen Popular>
 Ity Contest which Is being conducted by the Puppet, is now un*
 der way. The object of this con*1*
 test is to determine, who are
 considered the most popular and !?
 best liked Hollywood and Broad?
 way Stars, in the opinion of the *
 students of Carnegie Tech. *
The pictures of the two winners, an actor and an actress,
 will appear in a future issue of *
 the Puppet. The result of this *
 election will be extremely Inter*
 estlng, for it will indicate the 
1 trend of popular taste among the
1 students.
. .j. * .} {. ^ .j.
Osborne Directing Farce 
Written By Fred Smith 
and Don Gardner
TO BE HELD AT 
MOSQUE MAY 16
Single Performance to Be 
Given Last Night of 
Campus Week
The play for Campus Week will bo 
a musical comedy, culled Collegiately Speaking, written by Don Gard
ner and Fred Smith, directed by Hu
bert Osborne, presented at the Syria 
Mosque on the final night of Campus 
Week, and tho leading part portrayed 
by Obie Newman.
There, Its all out .the dope for 
which the students have been waiting 
Impatiently for the past month.
This will be the first time a musical 
comedy has been presented during 
Campus Week, and the committee 
feels that it will fall right in with 
the spirit of the occassion. It will 
have all the usual musical comedy 
features, songs, dances, comedians 
and a mighty clever chorus. In fact, 
the show would bo a success with 
nothing but the chorus on the stage. 
Add to this the fact that it will be 
directed by Osborne, and tho load 
will bo played by Obie, and you have 
an unboatablo combination.
Hubert Osborne has not only directod but has written musical comedies 
himself, and those who know him, 
claim that under his direction the 
show will go ovor big. Mr. Osborne 
usually does not Intorost himsolf in 
student productions' so much, and the 
fact that, ho Is so enthusiastic about 
this ono scorns to certify that it will 
bo far abovo tho average.
With tho ontlro school to pick from 
tho commlttoo has lined up an Ideal 
oast. Ohio will play the load, sup
ported by Ann Lurls. Others In tl\o 
cast will bo Harry Morvls, Botay Lind
say, Elizabeth Soworaby, lhil Thorn, 
,Plp Porrln. Horb Poloole and Vernon 
Haldeon. Just what parts ouch ono 
will play will bo announced in a futuro GAMBBOL
A very Important point about I hi 
year's allow Is that there will lie only 
ono performance. Duo to the fact 
(Continued on Pago Pour.)
Dr. Fisher to Lecture 
In Union Tomorrow
Chemist Will Discuss Methods 
of Making Liquid Fuels 
From Water Gases
Hr. (rail! FMflclior, (he notoct (ler 
man chemist who has manufactured1 
a liquid fuel from Water gas that nat
urally has boon used In automobile' 
engines in place of gasoline, will de
scribe Jils experiments and discov
eries in a public lecture on Liquid 
Fitols from Water Gas,'" noxt Wed
nesday evening, April 15, in the Un
ion at 8: (10. The lecture has been 
arrangod by Dr. Baker In co-opera
tion with tho U. 'S'. Bureau of Mine 
for the special benefit of Pittsburgh 
chemists and other scientists inter
ested in the development of fuel oils.
Dr. Flschor Is Director of the In
stitute for Coal Research at MulhehnRuhr, which Is located near Essen in 
the heart of the coal-iron district of 
Western Germany. The Institute 
for Coal Research was established in 
1914 under the joint auspices of the 
German Government and the coal in
dustry of the Ruhr district. Its pur
pose was fundamental research on 
the constitution of coal with a view 
to its most efficient utilization in 
connection with the extraction of all 
possible by-products.
Dr. Fischer, who Is considered to 
be the leader in coal research in Ger
many today, and his associates have 
made a special study of low temper
ature carbonization of coal In rotary 
retorts and the composition of the 
low temperature tars and oils thus 
produced. In this work, they have 
developed methods for converting 
(Continued on Page Two.)
Official Enrollment Exceeds That 
Of Last Year By Many Hundreds
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB
MEETS IN M. MC. C. FRI
DAY NITE, APRIL 17
The regular meeting of tho Inter
collegiate Cosmopolitan Club will bo 
held Friday evening, April 37, 1025, 
at the Recreation Hall, Margaret 
Morrison College, Carnegie Tech. I
Mr. Julian Steen will speak on: j 
Folksongs in Eight Languages, and 
Miss Canfield will sing in various lan
guages.
The program will be exceedingly 
interesting to the members and their j 
friends.
The meeting starts at eight oclock i 
sharp. j
The present total enrollment of 
5,089 students in both day and night 
courses is the largest In tho history 
of Carnegie. Tho net gain In enroll
ment over that of a year ago, Is 436, 
and over 1922-1923, the gain Is nearly 
1,000.
Counting tho registration In tho 
part-time and Saturday morning 
classes conducted this year at Car
negie, tho total requirement Is 5,(531, 
also recordod as the highest total en
rollment for all courses In one yoar 
since the Institute was established. 
A high water mark of considerably 
more than 6,000 Btudents is expected 
to be reached for this year when the 
summer school enrollment of at 
least 600 Is added to the present total 
registration.
An analysis of the report FGBOTM 
that the largest gain is in night stu
dents with a registration of 2.832 
compared to a figure of 2,425 of a
year ago. Tho number of day stu
dents in tho regular courses this year 
Is 2,257, which Is a gain of 37. The 
largest gain In the day student 
groups was In the combined fresh
man class for the College of Engi
neering and tho College of Industrie 
with 300 for this year, reproeentinK 
a gain of 82. Slight losses In upper 
class registrations aro 'Indicateci in 
tho enrollments In both tho College 
of Engineering and the College of In
dustries, tho Margaret Morrison Car
negie College gained 25, while the 
College of Fine Arts, which has been 
taxed to Its capacity for the past few 
years, reports a loss of one in tho 
registration for this year compared 
to last year's total.
Due to the withdrawal of several 
part-time courses offered last year, 
the enrollment in this group of 
courses dropped from 478 to 391, 
(Continued on Page Two.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. APRIL 14. 1925
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the Postonico of Pittsburgh as socond-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH......................................................................................Schenley 9122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
F. I). ROSSINI A. 19; KEOGH __________E. C. FRAZ1 liill
EDITORIAL 8TAFF
L. H. Harris A. F. Carson R. R. Sltzler D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PITELPS..................................................................................Schenley 9102
NEW8 EDITOR8
W. WINNING .........................................................................................Schenley 9070
V. B. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin 5547-J
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS..................................................................................................Scbeniey 9180
REPORTERS
R. L. Leppor, M. Holllnshead, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadgo, M. Tucker, R. Hand, 
M. Cohen, S. Weil, F. L. Grant, E. Ross, II. L. Myers, L. V. Twhlg, F. Finn,
F. A. Kolb, A. V. Norn, A. Will gold, L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Kimmel, It. M. Pew, F. O. Woods.________________________________________________________
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF ........................................................................................Schenley 285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Follor, C.,F. McWilliams, D. M. Da
vidson, B. Krlstof, .T. R. Bracken.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON..........................................................................................Schenley 9211
N. C. WESER, Assistant........................................................................Schenley 9122
ADVERTISING MANAGER
GEORGE II. CARL...............................................................................Schenley 0303-M
CIRCULATION MANAGER
P. MOSKOV1TZ ........................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
.T. W. Metro, A. Grodnor, L, IJarbrow, N. Alexandor, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. 
Strizak, Lois Snyder, A. Perroton, B. Supowltz, L. Sachs, II. ICandell, A. C. 
Hough, F. W. Mooro, it, L. Grlbblo, Gladys Reynolds, W. A. Bornardi.________
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
, Managing Editor for the make up.
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed.
Signature will be withheld If desired. All news Items must be In the student
post office before 4:30 Thursday.
Tartan OillcoRoom 12, Industries Building. Oillce hoursDaily 12:30- 
1:20._________________________________________________________________________
CAMPUS WEEK
From the time oi: this issue, there will be blit five more weeks 
until Campus Week. A long time, in the lile oJ! an average math 
class, but a very short one considering the amount oil work which 
must be done before Campus Week can be successfully held.
Each oi: the general committees, of course, has its work outlined 
for it, and in all there will be over two hundred students directly 
concerned with the work in one line or another. It is difficult to 
appreciate the immense amount of work involved in this celebra
tion unless one is directly in touch with it.
In Watching the progress oi! the work as set forth in the Car
negie Tartan, and in seeing the decoration of the campus proceed
ing, students often lose sight of the fact that there is another side 
to campus besides that pertaining to the students. That pertains 
to the alumni. Campus Week is primarily a series of entertainments 
for the edification of alumni who are urged to return to their Alma 
Mater at this time in order that the students may have time and 
opportunity to entertain them. If the alumni do not return, the 
whole ell'ectivenoHs of Campus Week :is lost.
And not only the alumni arc included in this invitation to re
turn, but the parents and friends of the students are asked to visit 
the school. Oli course, there is the Publicity Committee whose duty 
it is to try and get the alumni and. parents to come on to Carnegie, 
bull the scope oi! this committee is necessarily limited. The printed 
article, and tlie form letter, and .effective only as a reminder when 
a person has made up his mind to do n thing. The hardest part of 
the job is a tremendous proposition for any one committee of six or 
seven men,
Now the only way to lie sure of reaching every parent, and many 
of the alumni, is for the individual students to write homo and sell 
their people on the proposition of coming to Pittsburgh for Oumpus 
Week, I lore in one duty which falls to the lot of eVery student, be he 
on the Campus Week committee or not, We believe every Car
negie man and woman wishes wholeheartedly for the success of Cam
pus Woclt. Merc is a chance for each student to contribute towards 
i;hat success.
We have seen several Campus Weeks go by, and we Unow just 
about the percentage of students who do write homo with I ho idea of 
seriously trying to interest their people in the subject. And we are 
prepared to stand by thift statement, if every student would write 
homo, UN wo Inivo suggested, the number of visitors to Carnegie dur
ing Campus Week would bo increased three fold over the highest at
tendance at any of the (lvo prooodiug celebrations.
Campus Week will continue only so long as if fulfills its function. 
Already there art those who claim it is failing, and hold as a proof 
the fact that the number of alumni returning has been only a small 
percentage of those who might do so.
Let every student co-operate to increase this number, and thus 
do his part, not only for the Sixth Campus Week, but also for all 
those to come.
VOTING
And while thinking deeply about Campus Week, don't forget 
that the important elections are now in full Swing. All tlie class 
officers ftir next year must be chosen as well as the members of)the 
various student governing bodies.
Every student owes it to his classmates as well as to himself to 
cast a vote at every election at which he is eligible to do so. It is 
only a little thing, in a way, and yet the growing antipathy which so 
many students have shown is seriously prejudicing people against 
student self-government.
There is no question that student government is desirable, if not 
actually indispensable. And all you have to do to support it is to 
vote, INTELLIGENTLY.________________________________________________
.U.J. .J.
THATS THAT
Student Calendar
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 15
BaseballJuniata........................................3:00 P. 3VL, Schenley Oval
THURSDAY, APRIL 16
Chapel ............................................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, APRIL 17
Gambol of the Guilds................. .....................9:00 P. HE Union
SATURDAY, APRIL 18
Saturday Night Dance......................................9:00 P. jVl., Union
TUESDAY, APRIL 21
General Assembly ........................................................................  11:30
FRIDAY, APRIL 24 
Exhibition, Night .....................................................................7:30-10:30
OFFICIAL ENROLLMENT BIG EASTERN TRIP
EXCEEDS LAST YEAR IS GREAT SUCCESS
(Continued From Page Quo.) 
while the classes Cor high school stu
dents given Saturday mornings jump
ed their enrollments from 159 to 173.
In the night courses, the College of 
Industries increased its registration 
this year to 1904, showing a gain of 
354, while the enrollment in the Col
lege of Engineering night clnssos re
mained at 481, exactly the same as 
last year, and the College of Fine 
Arts gained 53 with 447 registered 
this year.
During the twenty years that Car
negie has been established, and in
cluding the enrollment for the pre
sent year, the report points out, the 
total registration in day and night 
. courses has reached the mark of 63,- 
359, this figure being exclusive of the 
registration in part-time, Saturday 
morning, extension, or summer school 
courses during the 20 year period.
(Continued From Pago Ono.l 
the country. Following I hi concert, 
Dave and the gang journeyed to Mont
clair, Now .Tersoy. where they gave 
their dual concert and danoo In the 
Montclair High school.
Great credit is duo D. S. Garber, 
student manager; Cy Owens, business 
manager, and Corrutti, librarian, who, 
by dint of hard labor and groat wor
ry, made the trip, and its attendant 
success, possible. The Eastern clans 
are to be commended for their inter
est, and for the excellent accommo
dations they prepared for the band. 
The trip was the best publicity stunt 
in the history of the school, and will 
add greatly to the prestige of Car
negie in the eastern population cen
ters. The great welcome received by 
the Kilties seems to assure the es
tablishment of a spring vacation trip 
as an annual event.
V
> It occurs to me that the mov*!?
> leu nowday are degenerating ?
> horribly. Take for Instance a -V
> "Thief In Paradise," I-Iere we *J*
> have the touching story of a mari
> who Impersonates the prodigal ?* 
1 son oi a rich father, In cahoots *5*
> with an unscrupulous dancing *!*
> girl. While going under his as> sinned name, he meets, and falls !
> In love with, the daughter of one
> of the friends of his supposed *2*
> father. They marry; then bis ?!* 
! puritanical conscience, which
made no protest when ho killed *5*
> the real son, suddenly comes to J*
> the front, and he determines to *5* 
! return and make a clean breast *J* 
I* of the whole affair to his wife *2* 
i* and father. This is one of the J*
> real character traits brought out 
! In tho story, it Is especially a 
!* mark of development of a Chris! tlan-lllco soul when one considers *5*
> that the wife and father have alI* ready been told about the whole ?J* 
1* affair by tho aforesaid dancer. * 
! He goes back, confesses, and
> realizing Ills own unworthiness, *
> shoots himself. As he lies on *5* 
!? the bed, a pathetic figure, with
> ills tux shirt rippled Into waves, *J* 
! he tells his wife that he loved
> her, thus compensating for all
1' his previous sinUi, and sinks * 
! down, showing all the well
> known movie characteristics of a 
: man who has suddenly cashed in
1* his chips in the midst of mortal *!* 
!? agony. Had tlie play ended here,
: I would have considered it no 
I* worse than the general run of 
I* dramatized dime novels which $-
> we see every day.
> But does it? Not at all. The *
> next picture shows the reformed * 
! imposter sitting with his wife on *
> a beautiful terrace, and as the ?
> story ends, he throws away his *
> book, which signifies a state of ?
> convalescence, and embraces
 her. *:*
That was tlie last straw. The *!
> very absurdity of the situation, *
> which turned a really pathetic
> ending into a typical musical ?
> comedy climax was bad enough, <*
> but the producer goes so far as *
> to suppose that Ills audience will -!
 believe that a man may shoot
 himself and still recover. Maybe *
> so. As for myself, I lose what *
> little respect I had for the man
 who cannot even make a success
 of his own death. A simple littie thing like putting a pistol to *!
 his head and pulling the trigger,
 and the miserable bungler managos to inIIlet a slight scratch ?
 which permits him to gambol on
 the terraces within a short time, *>
 In tho best of health. *
I know I shall never like that *
 man again. Though his next pic*
 Lure be dramatically perfect, and *'c
 his acting beyond tho shadow of
 criticism, I know that when the
 critical moment comes wherein *:?
 lib shall justify himself to his
 friends and save the old homestead from the grasp of the Oil
 Trust, I shall recall that tho
 boro Is tho man who couldn't
 oven kill himself so that it would
 countand I shall have to laugh. 
i + + * * + * *
Ive often thought that the an1 tlpathy of tho older generation 
1 to tho girls of today is this
 that they are too much tho pals
1 of their boy friends. *X*
At onco every high Bchool and 
1 college boy iu tho land will rise
> u)i and claim my scalp for sug1 gostlng that such a, thing is not
 perfectly lu tho scheme of *1*
1 things, and asking how that Is
 any objection to tho girls.
Of course Its not an objection.
 It's a fact, and hence cannot bo !*
 nn objection. Tho objection is *!
 tills. Older pooplo ronli/.o that a
 girl Isn't Intended for a pal. '*
 She's put hero for tho purposo of
 uplifting a man when lio's tired, *
 and comforting him when bos >
 sick. In other words, here is an
 inspirational function. Was There
 ever any really worth while
 thing accomplished by any man *J*
 in co-operation with a woman?
 Of course not! A girl is fine ?
 when she talks nonsense, and v
 makes a man forget his troubles.
 But let her come 'In when he's *
 trying to do something, and ?
> crash, down goes the1 work. A
 man cant work in company with ?!* 
:* a girl he likes; either she has to *
> be enough of a machine that she *
> doesnt bother him, or else shes *
> a nuisance.
> Woman is essentially an enter: taining plaything. When she ? 
I* starts this pal stuff, shes out 
: of her element, and sooner or * 
!* later the man who gets her is 
! going to realize that a woman *! 
: who tries to be intelligent is like 
: a musical comedy to which the * 
I* songs are all hymns. Shes in: congruous. *1*
: That is why older people, who * 
: have more experience in such !* 
* matters, realize that the modern 
! girl is starting out on a course >2* 
 which must sooner or later be *!? 
 changed. *
 And therein lies the tragedy. * 
ITrying to change a modern girls *! 
 mind without killing her is so * 
: difficult as to bo downright im* 
! possible.
! Thoro are stormy days ahead 
! for some of tho so-called "young{* or generation." *J*
; And thats that. *2*
CAMPUS WEEK PROGRAM
THURSDAY, MAY 14
10:00 A. M........................................................................... Vaudeville
1:00 P. M..................................................................... Qualification
2:00 P. M........................................Tennis, Carnegie vs. Bethany
3:00 P. M........................................................Kaper of the Kilties
3:30 P. M......................................................Girls Baseball Game
3:30 P. M............................................................Coronation Dance
12:00 P. M...................................Coronation of the Campus Queen
FRIDAY, MAY 15
9:00 A. M............................................................Girls' Sweepstakes
9:30 A. M.........................................Interfraternity Sweepstakes
10:30 A. M.....................................Baseball, Buckncll vs Carnegie
1:00 P. M.............................................Tennis, Carnegie vs. Pitt
2:00 P. M.............................................Track Meet, Ohio Weslyan
3:00 P. M....................................................Girls Swimming Meet
6:00 P. M...........................................................Women's Banquet
9:00 P. M........................................................................Mardi Gras
SATURDAY, MAY 1&
10:00 A. M..............................................................Girls Volley Ball
10:30 A. M................................................................ Alumni Tennis
12:45 P. M....................................................................Alumni Lunch
1:30 P. M......................................................................Country Fair
2:00 P. M......................................................................Girls Tennis
8:30 P. M................................................."Collegiately Speaking"
j PEREGRINATIONS]\R.O.T.C. WILL CAMP 
AT HUMPHREYS
THE HIGH GOD
DR. FISCHEL TO LECTURE
IN UNION TOMORROW
(Continued From Pago One.) 
those tars into gasoline substitutes 
for fuel oils.
Tlie subject of the lecture Wed
nesday night is expected to be of 
particular Interest in view of the pro
bable early depletion of the petrol
eum resources of the United States. 
Dr. Fischers success in producing a 
liquid fuel from water gas suitable 
for use in automobile engines in 
place of gasoline has made him one 
of the most talked of scientists in 
the world.
A very disturbing play; one was 
almost surprised to find the audience 
so appreciative. For while "The I-Ilgh 
Gods is a play peculiarly adapted to 
the needs of our School and of our 
audiences, there is every reason to 
doubt whether it can ever be a popu
lar success. Crude power, unfinish
ed workmanship; a playwright grop
ing in a theme that is almost too 
much for himaudiences do not like 
to share with the author the agencies 
of thought and creation. The least 
they can expect is a play that gets 
somewhere, that grasps a theme firm
ly and takes it to some conclusion. 
"The High Gods" leads apparently 
nowhere. The sympathies of the au
dience are scattered.  And the play 
ends where most plays begin, with 
unsolved questions.
Brieux is more pamphleteer than 
artist. "Woman on Her Own," "Red 
Robe, Damaged Goods, are all 
pamphlets on timely questions, quite 
valueless as plays or even as 
thoughts. "Damaged Goods had a 
success de scandale, but one 1ms only 
to comparo.it with Ghosts, on the 
same theme, to see Its worthlessness. 
In "The High Gods Brieux attempt
ed to discuss tho clash between the 
religion of the Labor Movement, in 
France, agnostic humanitarian, and 
the religion of the French Church. 
But being a sincere man though not 
a groat man, ho was swept beyond 
liis depth by tho sheer power of the 
theme. His characters came to life, 
and wrought in utmost suffering their 
own expression of the truth they saw, 
Just as we all do. What began as a 
presentation of contemporary situa
tions in France became a revelation 
of universal and permanent align
ment, and, more, a revelation of con
flicting tendencies within us all. We 
are all Satni, and the High Priest, 
and Mlorls.- "What man found in his 
heart in liteypt, man finds in Ills 
heart today."
The play contors in ono true and 
poignant figure, Satni the young 
iconoclast. Ho lypifies tho spiritu
ality of the labor movement, agnos
tic humanitiirianism. In his intense 
desire for truth and Ills passionate 
love of humanity lie roaches heights 
which few men attain. Lovo for his 
botjothod and personal ambition are 
powerless to move him from his ap
pointed path, Nor can l.lio sophis
tries of tho High Priest confuse him. 
Yot twice Ills courage gives way be
fore tho spectacle Of human suffer
ing, and ho denies Ills own vision of 
truth. Only at tho end does ho at
tain tho high faith that daros to fall, 
seeing all Bartering as a little thing 
In tho light of a vision. So tho arguinantatlvQ young rebel becomes 
ono of the Christs of humanity, and 
at his death draws to him his first 
converts, the two who have suffered 
most and appealed to him in vain for 
relief. When Bltlou falls weeping on 
the body of tho man he killed, and 
the lady Mieris refuses to pray to 
Gods who sanction his death, we 
know that though the crowd may for 
a time follow the High Priest, Satni 
is victor.
Two other characters compose 
with Satni the central group in the 
play: the High Pri<?st and the lady 
Mieris. The High Priest represents 
the practical wisdom which governs 
organized society in its finest and 
largest form. He sees and points out 
the inadequacy of Satni, his helpless
ness before liuma.n needs. Indeed it 
is only at the end that Satni, in at
taining real spirituality, surpasses 
the humane wisdom of the High 
Priest, a character Brieux has drawn 
'with amazing justice and insight.
The other important character is 
Mieris. She stands between the 
High Priest and Satni, challenging 
both with her great need of God; She 
represents the sincere and intelligent 
soul; her need, rather than that of 
the mob, is the problem Satni must 
meet or remain inferior to the 
priests. She grows during the play, 
from faith that is merely desire, 
through questioning, through rever
ence for human aspirations, (Thou 
art but wood, yet men have given 
t.hoe life) to lior agony of need for 
God's ending in yielding to Yaoumas 
religious visions and self hypnotism. 
Then at the end Satni awakens lior 
to lior first resoluto honesty where
in she too attains to spiritual whole
ness. Ynoumn is loss important, 
though her character is beautifully 
drawn. She is a simple soul, a reli
gious enthusiast. She is for a time 
bewildered as to what gods she 
should worship, but her waverings 
lack significance.
Such is tho drama to which most 
of tho school have been giving their 
best Efforts for many weeks past. 
Over sixty student names appeared 
on the program. S'urely It has been 
a great good thing for us all to have 
labored on this crudely powerful 
play, trying to see beyond Brieuxs 
faulty technique and give life to his 
central meaning.
Obviously it is impossible to re
view in detail the work of sixty peo
ple. The whole performance was inWHITEHEAD CLUB MEETS 
AT ST. MARYS EPISCOPAL
The/Whitehead Club, which is com
posed of Episcopal students from the 
University of Pittsburgh and Carne
gie, has planned an active spring 
program, which is as follows:
The next meeting will be held at 
St. Mary's Episcopal Church, on Mc
Kee place, Oakland, on Monday eve
ning, April 20, at 8:00 p. m. Bishop 
Mann of the Diocese of Pittsburgh 
will be the speaker for the evening. 
A large attendance is particularly de
sired for this meeting, since the nom
ination and election of the club of
ficers for next year will be held. Af
ter the business session there will be 
a social time for the rest of the eve
ning. Dont forget this meeting!
On May 3, at 5:45 p. in., at the 
Church of the Ascension, the instal
lation of next years officers will be 
held. Judge Buffington will address 
the club at this time. Those who 
have heard Judge Buffington speak 
before, will be sure to want to hear 
him again, and those who have not 
heard liim should avail themselves 
of this opportunity to do so.
The last Corporate Communion Of 
the year will be held at the Church 
of the Ascension on Sunday, May 10, 
at 8:00 a. m.
VALUABLE FELLOWSHIPS
ARE NOW OFFERED
(Continued From Page One.) 
and Finance. Annual stipend $1,000. 
Open without! restriction to qualified 
graduates of recognized colleges, 
both men and women, who have evi
denced superior ability In the field 
of economics, and who are preparing 
to enter teaching or business.
Charles A. Coffin Foundation:
Fellowships in Electricity, Physics, 
and Physical Chemistry. Offered hy 
the General Electric Company. Min
imum allowance $500 each.
University of Cincinnati: Hanna
Fellowship in Physics yielding an in
come of $500 a year. Also three fel
lowships in Chemistry, $500 each.
In his essay "Callinicus, J. B. S. 
Haldane has attempted to defend 
| chemical warfare by citing the differ
ent chemicals used in the late war, 
and tlie effects they have had upon 
men as compared to the effects of 
former military methods.
According to the author, twentyfive different weapons were used dur
ing the war. These are of four class
es, grouped according to their effects 
upon men. The first class includes 
those which although poisonous 
when breathed, have no effect upon 
the skin, and affect the eyes and nose 
only in large amounts. These can 
be kept out by respirators. Chlorine 
is-one of these gases. The second 
group cause blindness even in small 
amounts. The third class causes in
tense pains in the head and chest, 
but nearly everyone recovers from 
this in about 48 hours. These gases 
will penetrate almost any respirator. 
The fourth is a group of blistering 
gases, the most commonly known of 
which is mustard gas. This causes a 
very painful blister on any surface 
with which it comes in contact
A question often asked is "Why 
can chemists not produce a subs
tance which will put our foes com
fortably to sleep and allow us to take 
them prisoners? The answer is 
that such substances have been pro
duced and although harmless in 
small amounts, in , large amounts 
they are fatal.
During the late war, mustard gas 
caused 150,000 casualties in the Bri
tish army alone, but less than -4,000 
died, and only about 700 became per
manently unfit. Yet the Washington 
Conference has solemnly agreed that 
these substances are not to be used, 
though they use such weapons as 
bayonets, shells, and incendiary 
bombs. This very curiaus decision 
can be attributed only to ignorance 
on the part of the politicians involv
ed in the Conference. To this ignor
ance was joined the attachment of 
the professional soldiers to cruel and 
obsolete killing machinesa hideous 
form of sentimentalism.
It seems likely that chemical meth
ods of the future will not he far 
different from those of the past. Af
ter all, the greater weapon in chemial warfare is not gas, but education 
of all classes. For in future wars 
we are to avoid gross mismanage
ment in high places, and stupidity 
among the masses, it is essential 
that everyone should learn a little 
elementary science.
Such are the facts of chemical war
fare. They will not be believed, be
cause they are novel, and upset the 
sentiments of most people. Neverthe
less, they are true, and as long as 
we persist in the belief that we are 
going to be saved by patriotism or 
social reforms, or even by former 
military methods, we shall certainly 
go down before some nation of more 
realistic views.
Washington University, St. Louis:
Two fellowships in electrical engin
eering. Value, $725 each.
University of Washington: Five
Fellowships for research in1 coal and 
ceramics in co-operation with tlie Bu
reau of Minos. Value, $720. Also 
tuition and laboratory fees.
University of Kentucky: Five lOr 
search fellowships of, $400. No de
partmental duties required.
American - Scandinavian Founda
tion: Twenty traveling fellowships
for study in practically all subjects 
in the Scandinavian countries. Value, 
$1,000 each, some $1,200. Graduate 
students and the younger instructors 
in American colleges especiallj' in
vited to become candidates.
COUNTRY FAIR DATE
SET FOR SAT., MAY 6
(Continued From Page One.)
the grounds. And so that in the days 
that are to come BBU one will forget 
this distinctly agricultural affair in 
its collegiate aspects, souveniers 
given.
The question as to where to hold 
this second annual fair is as yet un
decided. The committee -would like 
to have the triangle on the cut, but 
the corner of Woodlawn and Forces 
is also under consideration. A sight 
indeed will it be, those white teiits 
like pyramids to tell the passerby 
that this is Carnegies Campus Week.
Site of Annual Summer Camp 
is Finally Decided 
Upon
HISTORIC LOCATION
Recent advice from the War De
partment that this summers Engi
neer R. O. T. C. camp will be held 
at Fort Humphreys, Va., at which the 
very successful and popular camp of 
1922 was held.
Fort Humphreys is located on the 
west shore of the Potomac river, 
about eighteen miles south of Wash
ington. It is easily reached from the 
capital by trolley or bus. The post 
is situated on a high, wooded penin
sula called Belvoir, the old colonial 
estate of Thomas, Lord Fairfax, and 
is bounded by estates of deep historic 
interest; Guston Hall, the estate of 
Thomas Mason, the estates of the McCartys, Lewises, Kii'bys and others. 
On the north is Mount Vernon, Wood
lawn, Mt. Eagle and other historic 
demesnes. Fustlier to the north is 
Alexandria.
Fort Humphreys is the home of the 
engineers. Thousands were trained 
there during the war. Every facility 
for bridge construction, pontoon drill, 
field fortification and other military 
engineering is present. Equitation 
will be taught and those students who 
are fond of horseback riding will find 
very good animals at their service.
There are excellent facilities for 
amusement and sport. Dances are 
held once or twice a week at the Serv
ice Club, and the debutantes of Wash
ington and Alexandria are invited. 
The Liberty theater shows popular 
films each night for which an admis
sion of fifteen cents is charged. There 
are baseball fields, tennis courts, a 
bow-ling alley, shooting gallery, etc. 
The post boasts a very fine polo team.
The student attending the camp is 
paid 5 cents a mile for his travel each 
I way between Pittsburgh and HumI plireys or about $35.00. For the 
course he receives $31.50 in pay, to
gether with uniforms, housing, meals, 
j laundry and medical attention. Un
doubtedly the students who attend 
this years camp will spend a most 
enjoyable, instructive and profitable 
six weeks.
Pneumatic Organ Old
Tho pneumatic style of organ made 
its appearance in the Fourth century. 
It was used on festive occasions for 
secular purposes.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
y Wednesday, 8 P. M. 
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
TO CAST FIRST BALLOT FOR
CAMPUS QUEEN THURSDAY
(Continued From Page One.)
their knights in trial by combat. 
Girls are not as helpless today as in 
those days of yore, hut in this elec
tion every knight should rally to the 
choice of his heart, and while com
bat must be avoided, excess amor
ous spirit may he used in doing a 
little, electioneering.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M. 
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, SCIENTIST 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
Announces Two 
FREE LECTURES ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
---------by---------
MISS MARGARET MURNEY GLENN, C. S. B., OF 
BOSTON, MASS.
Member of the Board of Lectureship of . the Mother Church, the ] 
Church of Christ, Scientist, in Boston, Massachusetts 
MONDAY. APRIL 20, 8:15 P. M.
TUESDAY, APRIL 21, 8:15 P. M.
Church Edifice 
CLYDE STREET, NEAR FIFTH AVENUE 
Car 73, 75 or 76 
The Public is Cordially Invited to Attend.
teresting and creative. The mob es
pecially deserve praise; they carried 
adequately the burden of several dif
ficult emotional scenes.
Hardie Albrights work deserves 
detailed commendation. He practic
ally created the part of Satni in this 
country, for hitherto the play has 
been given only in Womens colleges. 
His Satni had emotional power, vital
ity, originality. He carried the partthrough all the growth and change 
of five difficult acts with unfailing in: 
sight and truth. The costumes and 
settings which lie designed showed 
the same artistic power and intelli
gence. He caught the spirit of 
Egypt, and the spirit of tho play, 
without slavish accuracy. His set 
was ingenious and practical, giving 
an effect of grandeur and solemnity, 
and sufficient Arnrio.tion of scono, and 
yet permitting quick changes.
Ellsworth Perrin did exquisitely a 
very difficult and important part as 
the dwarf Bitiou; only his mingling 
of comedy and pathos could have 
carried it. With either tragedy or 
comedy overstressed just there, the 
meaning of the play would have been 
seriously obscured. Ida Kraus was 
a Yaoumn in whose religious ecstacy 
one believed, no less than in her 
beautiful maidenhood. But already I 
have exceeded the allotted space. 
Suffice it to say that no play of the 
year has stimulated more thoughts 
in actors and audience. The effect of 
work on such a theme can never he 
evaluated.
ALLENE GREGORY.
 O. E. CO.(f A A T_ 7, / T),s,-C TVjf Bmb Building, New York City
A Noble Profile ELMLE * corbett. a,cJ
pAR more strongly than most churches, this great tower of commerce bespeaks the real spirit of Gothic architectureaspiring, rugged, virilean inspiration for the thinking, creating architect or today. Contradicting the antiquarian, this great tower declares that the spirit of Gothic architecture is a living, organic thing, adaptable to modern problems of accommodation and engineering, and endowed with a future as magnificent as its past.
OTISELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Gties of the World

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, APRIL 14, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTARPAGE THREE
I
I &jPERG EINPAIRTO
PLAID DEFEATED IN 
CONTESTS IN EAST
Lose to Navy, Georgetown 
and St. JohnsFielding 
to Blame
Last weeks baseball trip turned 
out rather disasterously for the Plaid 
team. All three of the games were 
lost, but only one by a wide margin. 
Mondays game turned out 5 to '4 
favoring Georgetown. The following 
day Carnegie was defeated 16 to 1 by 
St. Johns, and Wednesday saw the 
Tartans nosed out 11 to 7 by the 
Navy. The first game was the hard
est fought and would have been won 
by the Plaid but for the poor sup
port given Conrad, who pitched a 
wonderful game.
The invasion of the East, while not 
exactly a. success from the point of 
view of the scoring, uncovered the 
weaknesses of the aggregation and 
will enable Coach Blythe to admin
ister the necessary corrections. Two 
of the games were lost mainly be
cause of poor fielding, and in the 
other one the Tartans completely 
hlew up. Probably worn out by their 
. hard contest against Georgetown the 
day before.
The opener for Carnegie was the 
fifth game of the year for George1 
town, and although Paul Conrad 
pitched masterful ball for the Tar
tans despite the two homers garner
ed from his delivery, the team came 
out on the little end of the score. 
A short right field fence was respon
sible for a couple of circuit smashes. 
The home team drew first blood in 
the second inning when Mudd smack
ed a curve into the right field tier 
for a home run. Carnegie came 
right back in the fourth inning, how
ever, when Bastian singled to cen
ter, was sacrificed to second by Vogt, 
Shriver drew a pass, and both men 
advanced on a passed hall. Bastian 
scored on a bad throw to. third and 
Conrad scored Shriver with a base 
hit. Carnegie annexed two more in 
the seventh when Conrad doubled, 
Christoff followed with another 
double, scoring. Maurer walked and 
Christoff tallied on a hit by Diffley. 
Georgetown came back with two in 
the seventh when Carney slammed 
a four-bagger. A single, a passed 
hall, and another single scored Al
bert. The winning tallies came in 
the final inning when Albert walked, 
ONeil laid one down and when Con
rad hit him in throwing to first, he 
was safe. A passed ball advanced 
both men, and they scored on a 
single by Sukeforth.
In the second game, that against
JACK BRIGHT ELECTED 
TO LEAD TRACK TEAM
John G. Bright has been elected 
captain of this years varsity track 
team. This is a fitting reward for the 
hard work done by Bright since he 
entered. school. He has run the dis
tance events on the Tartan squad for 
the past three years, winning his let
ter last year. Captain Bright has also 
made his letter in cross country.
The election was made necessary 
when Danny Kramer, the sensational 
quarter miler who was elected cap
tain at the close of last season, failed 
to return to school.
Jack Bright is prominent on the 
campus, and stands very high scholas
tically. He is a member of Delta Upsilon national fraternity, and Tau 
Beta Pi and Theta Tau, honorary fra
ternities.
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
Our New 
Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
 Atwood Street
Is serving a most delicious 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We invite the students to 
meet their friends in the Reymer Store.
St. Johns, the Tartans took a severe 
lacing They put up a ragged and list
less game in the field; 10 miscues 
being charged up against them, 
nearly all of which helped the John
nies in their run-getting. Bassett, 
who started the twirling, was mauled 
for 15 safe blows, two being doubles; 
and the Johnnies continued their 
punching when Conrad took up the 
burden in the eighth, touching him 
for five safeties. The support given 
him was very poor, and seven more 
runs was the result. Carnegie got 
a runner on base in the fourth as a 
result of an error by Hoyle, of St. 
Johns, but he was tagged at third in 
an attempt to stretch out for home, 
following a fielders choice. Chris
toff, Diffley, and Yogt made the only 
hits for the Tartans throughout the 
whole game.
Again playing a loose fielding 
game, Carnegie went down to defeat 
before the Annapolis Midshipmen, by 
a score of 11 to 7. The hitting of 
both teams was of about the same 
calibre, Navy getting nine to the Tar
tans eight. The Middies were forc
ed to use four hurlers and Carnegie 
three. The Plaid got off to a good 
start and for a while it looked as 
though they would be eventually re
turned winners, as they were leading 
at the end of the third frame by a 
score of 7 to 2. The next inning, 
however saw the tide of battle begin 
to swing toward the Naval lads. 
Lynch, regular third baseman for the 
Plaid was on the mound at the it$ie, 
having relieved Lieberkneclit who 
was touched for two triples in the 
opening session. At two different 
times Carnegie struck out with the 
bases full. Christoff, Diffley, Bahr, 
and Bastian did the hitting for the 
Plaid.
The lineups are as follows:
Carnegie TechAb.H.P.A.
Cristoff IL ..................4120
Maurer 1 ........061
Lynch 3 ......................4035
Diffley c ....................4150
Bastian m ..........210
Bryant r ....................1000
Vogt s ................022
McClelland 2 ...2131
'Shriver r-m ................2020
Conrad p ............300
Totals ................. .308*249
GeorgetownAb.H.P.A.
Albert m ....................4100
O'Neill If ....................41. 11
Sueforth c ........1141
Urann s ......................4021
Ryan 2 ........................4121
Graham 1 ...................4171
Mudd r ..............100
Quinn 3 ......................3012
Brennan p ........103
Goddard p ...................2100
fMurtaugli ...................1000
McCarthy p ..............0000
Donovan If -----000

Totals ....................3682710
*None out when winning run was
s^sSCHENLEY^Ss
25c THEATER 25c
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, GENL MGR.
INTRA-MURAL TRACK MEET
Now that everyone has had a long rest over the Easter holidays, the track 
meet to be held on Thursday, Friday and Saturday ot' this week should bring 
out every man in school who can run or jump at all. The two cups to be 
given, one for the winner of the relay and the other for the winner of the 
meet, should prove of sufficient incentive to cause tlie men to work hard 
all this week.
While quite a large squad has been working out under Coach Guy Halferty for the past few weeks, the material is only mediocre, and it is hoped 
that new men will be discovered. There is a wonderful opportunity for any
one with ability in either the track or field events to do something for their 
Alma Mater as well as for themselves.. Let there be no slackers in school.
In another column is an article explaining all about the meet, the vari
ous events on each day and the time. It will be noticed that the relay will be 
run in heats, the three leading teams in each heat to be timed separately 
and the final winner to be adjudged by the best time made.*****'*
THE PENN RELAYS 
Only about ten days remains before the Penn Relays will be held. As 
usual, Carnegie will enter a team in the technical schools class. During 
the past* three years the Tartans have romped home with the championship, 
but the competition this year will be stiffer than ever. It is understood that 
in addition to the schools which competed against Carnegie last spring, M. I. 
T. will also offer opposition. That school does' not go in for football, so 
they usually put out a strong track team. All of which means that the Skibos 
must train and practice harder than ever if Carnegie is to retain the cham
pionship. '******
THE BASEBALL TRIP 
While the eastern baseball trip resulted in three defeats, neither 
Coach Don Blyth nor the players are discouraged. Everything con
sidered, the team did as well as could have been expected.
The boys were greatly handicapped because of lack of practice 
due to the inclement weather in Pittsburgh. They went up against 
teams that had been practicing for several weeks, and had even 
played four or five games each. They were not any better than 
our team, but were simply further advanced. It will be a different 
. story from now on, since the Skibos have put several games away.
By far the best game of tfie three played was that against the 
highly-touted Georgetown outfit. Conrad pitched a masterful game, 
and would have won but for some adverse decisions and bad breaks.
At one time Carnegie led 4 to 1. The game with St. Johns proved 
that our team was not in mid-season form, while the reaction fol
lowing the hard game of the day before was to be expected. It 
looked like a victory against Navy until the fifth inning, for the Tar
tans had a commanding lead of 7-2. But some loose fielding together 
with timely hitting netted Navy seven runs, putting them into the 
lead, which they never relinquished.
It looks as if the boys have finally secured their batting eyes, \ 
and that means opponents from now on had better be on their guard. * * * * *
The treatment accorded the boys by Navy could not have been im
proved upon. Nothing is left undone there to insure the comfort oL the vis
iting team.***** *
Ask Joe DifTley, Vogt and a couple of others to tell you all about the 
wonderful, six-hundred-year old Holly tree at St. Johns.******
The weather on the trip was idealsunshine all days and a beautiful 
moonnot moonshineat night. The only thing lacking, according to the 
Perfect Lover, to have made three romantic nights was the girl!******
St. Johns College is said to be the third oldest college in the country. 
It is a non-sectarian institution and is picturesque, to say the least. Some 
very nice boys attend this small school. o******
Max Bastian hurt his hand sliding into home in the Georgetown game, 
and was unable to play more than a couple of innings the following day. ******
If you want to see real system go to the Naval AcaHemy. Evoryono must 
be in bed at ten oclock, whether all of the math is done or not. And thoro Is 
something doing every minute of the day. It is a common sight to see the 
Middies running from one class to another.******
Juniata opens Carnegies home season at Sclienley Oval tomorrow. Lets 
have some rooters out!
scored, fBatted for Quinn in eighth.
Car. Tech ........0 0 0 2 0 0 2 0 04
Georgetown ....0100 0020 25
RunsShriver, Conrad, Bastian 
Cristoff, ONeill, Mudd, Goddard, Al
bert 2. ErrorsSueforth, Albert,
McClelland, Bryan, Diffley. Home
runsMudd, Goddard. Stolen bases 
ONeill, Albert 2, ONeill. Sacri
ficesVogt, Cristoff, Shriver. Double 
playGraham to Urann. Left on 
basesCarnegie Tech 8, Georgetown 
7. Base on ballsOff Conrad 4, off 
Goddard 1, of Brennan 4, off McCar
thy 1. I-IltsOff Brennan, 5 in G in
nings; off McCarthy, 3 in 1 inning. 
Struck outBy Conrad 3, by Bren
nan 9, by McCarthy 2. Wild pitch 
Conrad. Passed ballsDiffley 2, 
Winning pitcherGoddard. Losing
pitcherConrad. Umpire  Doyle. 
Time of game2:45-
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY
East of Broadway
From the Saturday Evening Post Story, with OWEN MOORE, Mary 
Carr and Marguerite De La Motte.
NEWS AESOPS FABLES SPORTLIGHT FILM
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY 
VIRGINIA VALLI and NORMAN KERRY in
The Frice of Pleasure
Supported by Louise Fazenda, T. Roy Barnes, George Fawcett and 
others.
FELIX THE CARTOON CAT NEWS REVIEW
ALL WEEK ALL WEEK
The Royal Garden Orchestra
Exponents of! Syncopated Music.
Complete Change of Program Thursday 
NO TROUBLE TO PARK AT THE SCHENLEY
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty
Carnegie TechAb.R.H.P.A.
Christoff If ...... 41121
Mayer 1 ..........00100
Lynch 3 ............ 40020
Diffley c ............ 4011o
Voght s ............ 30166
McClelland 2 ..... 30001
'Shriver m ............ 30031
Bastian r ............ 20000
0001
Bassett p ............ 20002
Conrad p ........... . 10001
Totals ............. .31132418
St. JohnsAb.R.H.P.A.
Davis 2 .............. 61114
Merrick If ..... 62200
Dugan c ............. 62263
Wolfinger r .... 62410
2303
Hoyle r .............. 52232
Holmes m ......... 44330
Brannan 1 ..... 412130
. 30201
Totals ............4416212713
Car. Tech ___00 0 00 01 00 1
St. Johns ........10 123 11 7*__IG
2. Two-base hitsWolfinger 2. Bock. 
Sacriflco hitsLutz, Bock. Struck 
outby Bock 7, by Bassett 3. Base 
on balfsOff Bassott 2. Hit by 
^pitcherBy Conrad (Brannan). Stol
en basesDavis, Dugan, Wolfingor, 
Holmes. Left on basesSt. Johns 
i) Carnegie Tech 3.' UmpiresBren
nan and Kerr. Time of gamo2:08.
ErrorsChristoff, Mayer 2, Lynch 
2, Diffley 2, Voght 2, Bassett, Hoyle
Carnegio TechAb.R.H.I.A
Christoff, 1-3 .... 31201
10130
Lynch 3-p ----.. 410010
1020
Dirfley c ....... r,1313
McClelland 2 ... 31011
. . 40020
.. 10000
.. 2011.0
Llebnt p ..... . 00000
.. 00000
31210
Totals...............337821IS
Naval AcademyAb.R.H.P.A.
Ward r .............. 42300
Leslie If ............ 42200
Fenno m .......... 31100
Cooper s .......... 40011
Ellis 1 ............. . 21040
Griffin 1 ........ 20040
2210
.. 21020
.. 10002
1162
.. 100r,0
00i1
.. 00000
.. 21101
.. 00001
. .321110248
Carnegie Tech ..2 140 00 007
Naval Academy.2 0 07 01 1*__11
TARTAN NET TEAM 
MAKING PROGRESS
Play Notre Dame Here May 
10thSchool Courts in 
Shape Soon
The beautiful spring weather which 
Pittsburgh enjoyed over the Easter 
holidays was very much to the liking 
of the Plaid tennis team. Although 
the school courts are not yet in shape, 
the cement court, belonging to McCahill, and situated on Squirrel Hill, 
was put to good use by Coach Fink 
and his tennis aspirants.
A cement court is not particularly 
adaptable to clay court playing, but it 
answered the purpose of loosening up 
muscles which have long been idle 
over the winter. Work will start on 
the school courts with the reopening 
of school after the Easter recess, and 
they should be in condition for play
ing in a weeks time, provided the 
good weather continues.
Manager Sload announces that the 
schedule has been approved by the 
athletic council and will be published 
in the near future. It Is one of the 
most attractive schedules that a Car
negie tennis team has enjoyed in 
years. A home and home agreement 
has been reached with Notre Dame, 
and the Irish will oppose the Scotch 
for the first time in tennis on the 
Carnegie courts, May 10th.
Other high points on the schedule 
are matches with Pitt, State, West 
Virginia, Ohio Wesleyan, Bethany, W. 
& J., Alumni and a three-day trip 
through New York state which in
cludes matches with Syracuse, Union 
College and New York City College.
SC0BELL HALL WINS
BASKETBALL TROPHY
By winning the play-off game with 
Phi Kappa, Scobell Hall won the dis
tinction of being the first dormitory 
to capture the Inter-fraternlty dormi
tory trophy.
Captain Fred Duncan and has 
mates deserve much crodit for their 
hard and clean playing throughout 
the campaign. Their victory was 
well deserved and oxtremoly popular.
Last year Scobell won the cham
pionship of their loague, out wore de
feated In the finals by Pi Kappa 
Alpha. The loss of Diflley and St'lirlver from last year's team was moro 
than made up for by the addition ol! 
Crum and Allen, who, with Duncan and 
Hahn formed a nucleus for a team 
that provod Itself to bo the best In all 
the loaguos.
The spirit and enthusiasm of tho 
last gamo clearly demonstrated that 
intor-frat-dorm basket ball is popular, 
and this gamo markod the closo of a 
very successful and woll conducted 
soason.
SPRING FOOTBALL TO 
START TODAY IN BOWL
Now that tho frost has been driv
en out of tho ground by tho balmy 
ay pliers of spring, a great urge has 
come upon the. campus in general. 
The theme of this article, however, 
deals with Wally Steffen and his 
band of coaches In particular. In the 
last few weoks they have gotten 
their heads together, and have decid
ed that tho football men in particu
lar have been having entirely too 
long a rest from activities. And since 
in the spring or the year one has the 
yearning to get up and do something, 
they have decided that a course in 
spring football would bo just tho tick
et and might prove beneficial. This 
plau was tried lost year and proved 
to bo quite  satisfactory.
The call has been sent out to all 
varsity football players and those 
that will be elogiblo for the varsity 
squad this coming season to report 
at the field house for equipment on 
Tuesday, April 14. If thore is any 
material on the campus which has 
been overlooked and not notified, 
they are requested to come out at 
the same time and show what they 
can do. The coming season is star
ing us in the face, and it promises 
to bo a hard one. There is much 
good material in this school, and if 
they show the proper spirit and 
come out, thoro is no reason why it 
Avould not be possible to develop an 
ovou greator team than the last one. 
The spring training period will bogin 
on April 14, and last for two weoks. 
On tho Saturday following tho open
ing, Wally will come to give the 
situation a critical survey and im
press tho noed of training upon all. 
At that time ho will alHo lay tho 
plans for tho coming yoar boforo tho 
playors in an effort to acquaint them 
with what will bo oxpoctod of them.
FOR RENT 
Well furnished room, Squir
rel Hill district, second floor, 
next to bath, electric light; 
suitable for one or two men. 
References exchangod. Call 
Hazel 1780.
Hit by pitched ballBy Graf (Mauror and McClolland), by Dyer (Chris
toff), by Jarrell (Bastan). Passed 
balls-Haorlln, Diffley. 'Stolen basos 
Griffin, Schwab 2, Lynch, Hastian. 
Loft on basesNaval Acadomy 3, 
Carnegie 11. UmplrosUraboy and 
Hughes. Time of game2:20.
SCHENLEY THEATER
ErrorsChristoff, Maurer, Diffley 
2, McClelland 2, Schriver, Bastian, 
Cooper, Ward, Caldwell. Three-base 
hitsLeslie 2, Ward. Two-base hits 
Harlan, Diffley. Sacrifice hitSul
livan. Base on ballsOff Graf 2, off 
Jarrell 2, off Lynch 2. Sturck out 
by Graf 3, hy Jarrell 6, by Dyer 1, by 
Myers 1, by Lynch 1, by Bassett 1.
Carnegie Rifle Team Closes Poor Season
The Carnegie Rifle Team has just closed a season which was not as suc
cessful as was hoped. After suffering two defeats in practice matches the 
team played three contests with league members before winning their first 
match. The last three contests of the season were very close, Carnegie los
ing by a few points only. In averaging the points scored by the Tartans 
as against those scored by opponents, the Plaid gun men look much bettor 
than the scores indicate.
Most of the men on the squad will return next year so that a hotter 
team may be expected.
A summary of the seasons matches is as follows:
PRACTICE MATCHES 
Date Score
Week of Opponents.
December 1.............................University of Chicago.............. 490
January 12.............................John Hopkins University......... 500
LEAGUE MATCHES
February 9.............................Georgetown University .......... 1906
February 16.............................Geo. Washington University. 1910
................University of Pittsburgh........ 1831
, Lafayette College
February 23................
March 2......................
March 9.................................Gettysburg College.................... 1854
March 23.................................St. Johns College .................... 1870
March 16...................................John Hopkins University-----
1707
1870
Carnegie
489
439
1800
1796
1720
1850
1846
1840
1854
Tho Royal Garden Orchestra will 
bo the added musical attraction at 
tho Sclienley during the entlro week, 
The musical program will bo chang
ed on Thurscday to conform with 
the change of photoplays.
"East of Broadway, from tho Sat
urday Evening Post story by Rich
ard Connell, with Owen Moore, 
Ralph Lowis, Marguerite De La Mot
te and Mary Carr, will be the feature 
photoplay on Monday, Tuesday and 
Wednesday. IL is a thrillng story 
of the New York police force. Its 
original title was "The Tropic of 
Capricorn and was adapted for the 
screen by Paul Schofield. The lat
est News, an unusually funny Aesops 
Fable and an interesting Sportlight 
film will also be  shown.
On Thursday, Friday and Saturday, 
Virginia Valll and Norman Kerry 
will be seen in The Price of Pleas
ure. The picture is said to be a 
masterpiece of realism, protraying 
two widely divergent walks of life. 
It was written especially for the 
screen by Elizabeth Holding and 
Marion Orth, two of the best known 
writers in the screen story profes
sion. The supporting cast contains 
some of the best known names in 
screenland, among them being Louise 
Fazenda, Kate Lester, George Faw
cett, T. Roy Barnes and James O. 
Burrows. Felix the funny cartoon 
cat will return to the Schenley 
screen. The always interesting News 
and Review will also be shown.
35 PLEBES EXEMPT
FROM REGULATIONS
(Continued From Page One.) 
Rietz, Leopard Pollatacheclc, Marylyn 
Davis, Dorothy Schwab, Evelyn Ofrott, Rose Cohen.
Industries: Max Thompson, C. IT.
Bunting, Alvin Godshall, W, Renfrow, 
W. 10. Splttka, B. M. Bergert, Rich
ard King, J. W. Simpson.
Science: D. A. Green, F. W. Wells, 
I. W. Cowan, C. F. Everson, J. L. 
Austran, G. S. Andrus, G. K. Mont
gomery.
LOST
On April first, during the All Fools 
Day celebration, two valuable insig
nia were lost on the campus. One a 
PI Sigma Tau pin, and the other a 
Student Council emblem. The finder 
will please return them to the Tartan 
Office.
SFiPNOafter every meal "
Tnko care of your teeth! 
Use Wrigleys regularly.
It removes food particles 
from the crevice. Strength
ens the gums. Combats 
acid mouth.
Refreshing and beneficiai!re? .
SZAIXD
TIGHT
KEPT
mom
Both tho athletic and tho frnt ntudent will piny oafo by {jetting his 
hand fitted with a Safety Students' 
Special fountain pen at SingersJen
kins Arcade.
^Jhe largest selling 
quality pencil 
the world
Superlative in quality, 
the world-famousENUS
PENCILS
give best service and 
longest wear.
Plain end, per doz, $1.00 Rubber ciula, per doz. 1.20 
oAt all tlealen 
Amcrlcnn LciulrPericfi Co. 
220 I'lftli Av<: N.Y.
FRAT-D0RM TRACK 
MEET SCHEDULED
To Be Held in Bowl This 
Thurs., Fri. and Sat. 
Two Cups Given
The annual Inter-Fratornity Dor
mitory track meet is about to bo 
pulled off. This Is tho time when 
anybody who thinks lio can run, 
jump or throw anything should get 
out and show tho world. Any man 
who has not received his letter in 
track or cross-couutry is eligible to 
compete in this event. A man may 
run as an individual, or he may run 
for a dormitory, or for a fraternity, 
or any other organization around tho 
school.
Apologies should bo made for the 
short notico that is being given for 
tho committee is somewhat at fault. 
It is to bo regrettod that more time 
could not. bo glvon between the time 
we come back from the Easter holi
days and the day of the first events, 
but the track season starts the fol
lowing week and after that it would 
be too late for tho moot.
Any man competing in this track 
meet must furnish his own equip
ment. Please do not go around to 
the track house and ask for the use 
of track equipment for it will only bo 
wasting your tlmo and the valuable 
time of tho track managers. No 
oquipmont will bo loaned from tho 
track team lockers. All men who 
are entering theso evonts shall dress 
in the now gym looker rooms. Any 
man who ontors an event is subject 
to the approval of Coach Guy Halforty. Anyone who goos down to do 
practicing before the meet should re
portfirst to either Coach Guy Halforty, or Howdy Dykomau.
The meet is to ho held April 3 (I. 
1, and 18. Thursday, Friday and 
Saturday of this week. A schedule of 
tho events Is glvon at tho end of this 
articlo and anyono wishing to enter 
theso evonts should noto closoly tho 
following rules. Tho evonts start 
promptly at 4:40 oclock on Thurs
day and Friday, and at 10:00 oclock 
on Saturday. When tho ovont is 
callod out by tho announcor, Ihoso 
wishing to compete shall go to the 
Clerk of tho Courso and glvo tholr 
namos and tho team with which they 
aro running. Then tlioy will bo told 
whero to report and should do so at 
once If they oxpoct to compote.
Tho able assistance of such moil 
as Doaoy, Prlne, Shnoffor, Larkin, 
Fink, HOFOML Buchama, Marks, Davis, 
and Munhall havo boon secured to 
take care of timing and acting as 
judges of tho moot. Two cups aro 
to bo awarded, one for tho highest 
numbor of points won by an organ
ization, and one for tho relay team 
talcing first place, Tho first group is 
glvon by tho 1*. T. Department and Is 
to be hold by the organization win
ning It, for one year. Tho team who 
wins this oup throo years In to re
tain ponnanOnt ownership of the cup. 
Tho relay cup In given by tho Athletlo Council and Is to bo the per
manent property of tho toam winning 
it.
A sohodnlo of tho ovont Is as 
follows:
Thurnday, starting at 4:40 p. m.
100 yrl. dash preliminary heats.
120 yd. low hurdles,  preliminary 
heats.
Half mile run.
220 yd. dash preliminary boats.
1.20 yd. high hurdles preliminary 
hosts.
Friday, starting at 4:40 p. m.
:l 00 yd. dash finals.
120 yd. low hurdles finals.
I mllo run.
220 yd. dasli finals.
120 yd. high hurdles finals.
440 yd. dash.
Saturday, starting at 10:00 a. m.
Two mile run. Polo vault. Dis
cuss.
Javelin. 'Shot put. Broad jump.
Relays. The relays are to he run 
In two beats and are to be run against 
time. This is the only possible way 
to run this event in connection with 
the meet. Tt is to be regretted that 
this could not be entirely competi
tive.
MENS STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
Smiles ^ back at /oui
Dont Be An Antique
8omc people look like an old relic In formal clothes that 
were tailored year ago. Let uo Rent you one of our New 
Models. Youll see the difference.
Largent stock between New York and Chicago.R
Whittington Dress Suit Co.h
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:305:30
a

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. APRIL 14, 1925
&EPrstR jECA
&
Field of Mechanical Engineering
Profcooor Willibald Trlnko
Mechanical Engineering in tho 
cleneo of machinery, of its tloulgn, 
construction, and operation. It 
should bo particularly noted that Mochanlcal jpiglnoorlng goe far beyond 
the mere design ol! machinery and in
cludes its construction, operation, 
testing, and selling. The experience 
gained in this work lays tho founda
tion for future executive positions In 
those industries using a largo amount 
of mechanical equipment.
Tho American Society for Mechani
cal Engineers is divided into ilvo 
professional divisions, and each of 
theso further subdivided as follows: 
Administrative, whoso subdivisions 
are, management, national defense, 
education, patents, and economics; 
Power, whoso subdivisions aro, fuels, 
steam power, oil and gas power, 
hydraulics, heating and ventilating, 
and refrigeration; Metal Industries, 
which is subdivided into, machine 
shop, ordnaneo, foundry, iron and 
steel, and printing machinery; NonMotal Industries, whose subdivisions 
are, forest products, pulp and paper, 
textiles, chemical, and petroleum; 
Transportation and Handling, whoso 
subdivisions aro, railroad, materials 
handling, marine, and aeronautic. 
Each of those divisions may bo ap
proached from tho standpoint of Re
search, Standardization, or 6'afoty 
Codes.
An analysis of this outline reveals 
the groat variety' of occupations into 
which a Mechanical Engineer may go, 
It will bo noted that tho field is a 
very broad one, and that within it 
there aro quite a number of special
ties or subdivisions for which separ
ate engineering associations exist. 
As an example, it may bo cited that 
shops and management aro tho spec
ialty of tho Industrial Engineers,
Religion
I've seen pretly dear ever nine* I 
was a young un, as religions some
thing else besides doctrines and no
tions. I look at it as if the doctrines 
was lllce finding names for your feel
ings, so as you can talk of em when 
youve never known em, just as a man 
may talk o' tools when he knows their 
names, (bough lies never FO much a 
seen em, still less handled 'em. 
George Eliot.
Where Even Death Is Mild
Wero not pessimistic, on the con
trary we are happy. Wo Ilvo in tho 
best port In Chinn. Tientsin Is a 
health resort, and If you look at our 
statistical reports you will see that wo 
have less serious deaths than any oth
er port, all other anplrants to tho con
trary.Tho Mel Foo Shield (Shang
hai).
A High Class Home
ban avnllnblo n suite of two 
Inrflo airy and beautifully furnlahed rooma with private bath, 
aultnblo for ono or two uontlomen; also.one largo and beautl* 
fully furnlnhed front room with 
bathsituated near Roup and 
throo ntrect oar Knot). Addromi 
370 South Nogloy Avtinuo, Pitt 6* 
burgh.
Tartan 
Ads Bring 
Results
For rates call or write tho 
Advertising Manager
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
while automotive worlc is covered by 
the Society of Automotive Engineers, 
in a similar manner, thoro is a So
ciety of Heating and Ventilating En
gineers and a Society of Refrigerat
ing Engineers. Ordnance is covered 
by military associations, and so 
forth.
The course in Mechunical Engi
neering tho Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in intended to lay tho 
foundation for all of tho professional 
subdivisions of Mechanical Engineer
ing. If a man takes a general course, 
ho may, at' the beginning of his 
careor, not receive as much compen
sation as ho would if he studied only 
one of tho specialties. On tho other 
hand,, lie has tho ground work and 
the tools by means of which ho can 
work himself into any of tho special
ties at any timo in life.
A survey of the work now being 
done by Mechanical Engineering
graduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology shows that their work 
extends into almost all of tho pro
fessional divisions and their
positions range from president of 
manufacturing corporations down tho 
lino through managers, superintend
ents, chief engineers, assistant chief 
engineers, research engineers, sales 
engineers, to the lowly position of en
gineering apprentices, draftsmen,
and assistants in construction or re
search departments. Very few of 
the gradautos of Mechanical Engi
neering at tho Carnegie Institute of 
Technology have permanently left 
engineering work. Some of tho alum
ni tried other work, but after a Bhort 
trial went back into engineering. 
Lists of the graduates of Mechanical 
Engineering and of tho positions 
which they hold aro on file in tho 
Alumni office and also in the Depart
ment of Mechanical Engineering, 111 
Machinery Hall. They aro open for 
inspection at any time.
[ CLAN NEWS 
WHAT IS YOUR CLAN DOING?
Have you had a 1925 mooting?
Have you elected officers? Aro 
they on the job?
Have you seen tho Campus Week 
program ?
Wlmt plans havo you made to 
have a largo delegation back on tho 
campus?
Are you following tho notys in Tho 
Tartan and Alumnus?
Did you know that tho Kiltie Band 
Is touring the Eastern ClansJohns
town, Harrisburg, Philadelphia, Now 
York?
Rend tho following telegram:
Philadelphia, Pal, 
April 8, 1.925.
Kiltie Bund just paraded Market 
Street;, About fifty thousand specta
tors. Hootmon, (.was fino.
TOM SlIEA, 10.
Bare Knees Shocking Philadelphia
Carnegie Alumus! 
In Prize Contest
Carl E. Landefeld Selected as 
Final Competitor For 
Paris Prize
FINAL AWARD JULY 14
LUNA CATERY
Pure Foods
HOME MADE CANDY 
ICE CREAM
The Fraternity of 
Business!I
Bofrln now to form tho ntwoelntlonn 
and Inibita tlmt will non' you when you cntor tho bunlnoua world. A bnnk nccount, unitici from t.ho tun> 
Kiblo vuluo, furninhon xporlunco 
and contacta which will onorato to 
your udvantuiro in 1 tv tor your.
Tho personal intorcut of Mellon of
ficers in tho flnnpcial wo If aro o <lt>iK>Blora in ono of t.ho oututnnd* 
Inn chumctorlatlc) of tho inotltutlon. Our oxporienco and busi* nona judgment aro at your uorvico.
<- Capital and Surplus $12,000,000.00
COLUMBUS CLAN
Tho Columbus Clan had their din
ner and election as scheduled. Tho 
executive eommltteo members aro: 
N, ,T, Engle, pmsldent; Florence H. 
Lutz, vice president; .1. It. Pnlomo, 
sceretary treasurer; S. B. Shearer 
and Fred B. Rochester, momboro at 
largo. 
NEW YORK CLAN
Tho New York Clan In highly en
thusiastic over the famous Kiltie 
Bund which Is coming to tho metro
politan district on April 9.
Committee Chairman George Bur
gess has arranged a big concert and 
dauco at tho Montclair High School, 
Montclair, N. J., on this date at 8:00 
p. m.
It is understood that arrangements 
havo been completed whereby tho 
Kiltie Band will broadcast from Sta
tion WEAFNew York, between 
5:30 and 6:00 p. m. on that date.
Montclair is very easy to reach. 
Tickets for the entire evening at 
$1.00 per person. Subscriptions so 
far received indicate a very large 
turn-out. Bring everybody you can 
with you to this concert and dance. 
Help make this event another notch 
in New York Clan history.
Automobile route to Montclair 
from New York via Newark.
Lackawanna trains from New 
York to Montclair at one-half hour 
intervals and about thirty-two min
utes running time.
Connections also via Hudson and 
Manhattan Tube from New York to 
Newark, and then Bloomfield car or 
Montclair bus to tho Montclair High 
School.
Mark the date and be there.
Carl E. Limdefeld, a graduate of 
Architecture at the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, has been selected 
IF one of five candidates to enter the 
final competition for the Paris Prize, 
a national scholarship with a value 
of $3,000.00 for two and one-half 
years study in Europe, it was an
nounced by a jury of architects in 
New York City.
The Paris Prize, which is open to 
all citizens of the United States un
der 27 years of ago, and is considered 
to be the most valuable prize avail
able to tho younger American archi
tects, is awarded annually under the 
direction of tho Society of BeauxArts Architecture. The winner of 
the scholarship will be ollowed to 
study in the First Class of the School 
of Beaux-Arts of Paris, and will re
ceive $300 quarterly for two years 
and a half dating from his arrival in 
Europe.
Jjandofeld was one of the 22 candi
dates who had boon selected to en
ter tho second preliminary competi
tion. The competition required from 
each competitor a rendered sketch 
made under supervision and com
pleted in 2-1 consocutivo hours, show
ing in its design knowledge of the 
theory of planning a largo building 
or a group of buildings. .Tudment of 
the final competition amon tho ilvo 
candidates will bo held in Now York 
City, July 14.
Landofold was graduated from tho 
Department of Architecture at Carnegio Toeli with a B. A, dogreo in 
1923, coming boro from Erlo whoro 
lie attended tho Erlo High School.
Clarence W. Hunt, a graduate of 
Architecture at Carnegio Tech In
1922, was roeontly awarded the Lo
11 run Traveling Scholarship, a yoarly award of $1,-100.00 for six month's 
study abroad, according to an an
nouncement made a fow days ago. 
The Lo Brun Scholarship was also a 
national competition.
ANNE WITTUM OF FINE ARTS 
WINS BEAUTY CONTEST 
JUDGED BY NOTED ARTISTS
One of the Favored
DS KGYNHD9 HD: 0D0C 
H!JVVM.OW, AB3A M!AOOP
From MoKoosport, comos word that, 
Allen Wiermnn, former Carnegio ath
lete has been recommended to tho 
position of athletic diroetor of tho 
MoKoosport High School. At a recent; mooting of tho school board it 
was decided to do away with tho pre
sent. system of faculty coaching and 
to appoint 0110 man in chargo of all 
athletics.
Wierman, who has been coach at 
the Monongahela City High School 
during the past fow years, is under
stood to look with favor on the Mc
Keesport proposition.
While in school hero ho was a 
member of the football, basketball 
and baseball squads, winning liis let
ter in football three consecutive 
years. A graduate of Sharon High 
'School, he entered Carnegie from 
Westminster College in 1920.
Wierman was a student in the Ma
chine Production Department and is 
a member of Beta Theta Pi frater
nity.
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.) 
looted tho six which they considorod 
tho most boautlful. A systom of 
points was worked out by tho commit
tee in charge of the contest, whereby 
a person awarded first place was 
given G points, second placo 5 points, 
third placq 4 points, fourth place 3 
points, fifth place 2 points, and sixth 
place 1 point. According to this sys
tem the girl having the most points 
was acclaimed the winner of the con
test.
The judgment of the various artists 
is as follows:
Tony Sarg placed Anne Wittum 
first, Mary Speers second, Elizabeth 
Keefer third, Mary Hulsman fourth, 
Virginia Siebert fifth, and Margaret 
Vance sixth. Charles Williams placed 
Elizabeth Lenalian first, Anne Wittum 
second, Elizabeth Lindsay third, 
Elizabeth Keefer fourth, Mary Huls
man fifth, and Margaret Vance sixth. 
Harrison Fisher placed Elizabeth 
Keefer first, Mary Speers second, 
Anne Wittum third, Virginia Siebert 
fourth, Mary Hulsman fifth, and Mar
garet Vance sixth.
The formal presentation of the sil
ver loving cup to the winner of the 
contest will take place at the next 
Generp.l Assembly. This is the per
manent cup, which is engraved with 
the name of the winner of each suc
cessive beauty contest, and which is 
to bo kept in tho Girls Club room in 
tho now gym. Miss Wittum will also 
bo prosentod with a cup which slio 
will lcoop horself.
Tho pictures of tho girls who wore 
warded tho first six places will ap 
poar In this years Thistle. Thoir pic
ture swill also bo shown in all tho 
Pittsburgh papors, Tuosday ovoning. 
Moving pictures will also bo taken of 
theso girls somo timo in tho near fu
ture.
Advertising
PROMOTES
Progress
ADVERTISE IN THE TARTAN
English Minor Course
By Dr. Malcolm McLeod
The Curriculum of the English 
Minor Course is designed to give 
young women who desire to prepare 
themselves for secretaryships an ade
quate training in shorthand and 
typewriting, a long and thorough 
training in writing, and a wider ac
quaintance with literature, languages 
and other liberal subjects than is 
possible in other technical courses. 
To this e*d, the curriculum contains 
approximately the same amount of 
shorthand and typewriting as the cur
riculum of the regular Secretarial 
Courseabout 75 units; one course 
in writing each year; one course in 
literature each year; and opportunity 
each year for at least one course in 
language, literature, social science, 
or history.
It seems to be the general impres
sion that the English Minor Course 
is intended solely for the girl of ex
ceptional literary ability. If this 
brief article does nothing else I hope 
it will correct that false impression. 
In the past the course has appealed 
to at least three fairly distinct-class
es of girls, and all three classes 
have , pursued the course with plea
sure and profit. The girl of creative literary talent is naturally at
tracted to the course because of the
Alumni Urged to Make 
C.W. Reservations Now
Plan to Restrict Ticket Sale 
to Eliminate Outsiders
M.M. Alumnae Association 
To Elect Officers by May 1
Tho following members have been 
nominated for officers in the Mar
garet Morrison Alumnae Associa
tion. Tho election will be conducted 
by mail and ballots will be sent out 
on April 15, to all members in good 
standing. All votes must be in by 
May 1.
Prosidont: Gail Sellers Fottlce,
17.
Vied prosldonts: (voto for two) 
Annu Coto Dodds, 10; Lydia Bates 
Clock, 15; Rachel 13. Beatty, 18; Ag
nes Itnssoll, 21; Edith Hobo Rosso, 
20; Jane Markon, 24.
Secretary Troasuror: Bernice J.
Kruger, 19.
Rospockully submitted, 
Nominating Committee,
MARGARET GRIFFIN, 
Chairman, 
FANNIE WOODS'IDE, 
CHARLOTTE TROSS, 
ELIZABETH BUCI-LELS, 
MILDRED ABEL.
MACHINE SHOP RECEIVES 
VALUABLE EQUIPMENT
Mrs. William Whighain. widow of 
the late vice president of the Carne
gie Steal Company, presented a val
uable lot of machine shop equipment 
to Prof. Leeds, head of the depart
ment of Machine Production. .Upon 
the. arrival of the gift, Prof. Leeds 
turned it over to the machine shop, 
where it is now being assembled, in 
order to be on display exhibition 
night.
The lot includes the following; a 
Rivett precision lathe with all at
tachments; small screw cutting 
lathe; bench drill press; portable 
electric drill; bench grinder; buffer; 
benchwood lathe; several electric 
motors, a specially designed table for 
the Rivett lathe, and a miscellaneous 
lot of small tools.
The gift was made as a memorial 
to Mr. Whigliam. A bronze plate in
scribed with the date and purpose of 
the gift will be cast in the foundry 
and placed in a conspicuous position 
in the machine shop.
M.M. Alumnae Association 
Bridge at Kaufmanns Sat.
Lincoln Used I Once
President Lincoln, In his second in
augural uddress, used the pronoun I* 
only once, while Mr. Roosevelt avoided
It entirely.
All arrangements have been com
pleted for the annual bridge benefit 
of tho Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association to be held in Kaufmanns 
diiiing room at 3:00 oclock on Sat
urday afternoon, April 18. Judging 
from tlio large number of reserva
tions received tliero will be a record 
breaking attendance as this is the 
big event on the alumnae calendar 
and brings out all the girls and their 
friends from far and near. If you 
havo not reserved your table please 
do so at once, sending your check 
to Miss Mary E. Bechtel, chairman, 
b218 Friondship avenue. Tickets 
are $1.25 eachtables $5.
Delicious home-made candy will be 
sold during, the afternoon and there 
will be a prize for each table.
The patronesses for the benefit are 
as follows: Mrs. F. R. Cogswell,
Mrs. Samuel Harden Church, Mrs. 
Ogden M. Edwards, Mrs. George B. 
Gordon, Mrs. James H. Lockhart, 
Mrs. George M. McCandless, Mrs. 
William McConway, Mrs. John L. 
Porter, Mrs. James H. Reed,' Mrs. 
William Watson Smith, and Mrs. 
George E. Shaw.
The committee in charge includes: 
Miss Mary E. Bechtel, Mrs. Irma F. 
Markstein, Miss Cora Gerwig, Miss 
L. Maud Fire, Miss Eleanor Riesmeyer, Miss Florence I. Bechtel and 
Mrs. Paul Fetzer.
Carnegie Alumni Invited 
To Conference Smoker
All Carnegie Men Oirtl
The Western Conference Univer
sity Club of Pittsburgh is putting on 
a smoker Monday night, April 20, at 
8:00 p. m., at the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association and cordially invites ajl 
Carnegie alumni to join in the fes
tivities.
Mr. Zuppke, football coach of Illi
nois, will be the principal speaker. 
iSleveral other coaches will be present, 
and if Buddy Overends plans mature 
we shall have Wallie.
Plans, are under way now to put 
on a Carnegie stunt of some kind for 
the entertainment of the crowd. 
Watch tho 'Snorting Columns of the 
Pittsburgh dailies for further an
nouncements.
And dont forget tho dateApril 29
BE THERE!
The co-operation of the alumni is 
urged in making their Campus Week 
reservations at the Alumni Office 
now. By doing so, they will greatly 
assist the committees making the ar
rangements, and they will help to 
keep outsiders from attending the 
different events.
It is hoped that this Campus 
Week wiM be a strictly Carnegie af
fair, especially with regard to the 
Mardi Gras. The students will do 
their best to bring this about, and 
it is sincerely desired that the alum
ni will do their part. At previous 
events of this nature, attempts to 
keep out those who are not from 
Carnegie have not been particularly 
successful. If any such thing occurs 
this year, it will be the fault of 
either the students or the alumni, 
for tickets will be sold only to them. 
Each student and each alumnus will 
be entitled to two tickets only. They 
will have to be obtained through 
student representatives or through 
the Alumni Office. In this way, 
'outsiders will be practically pre
vented from gaining admission to 
the Mardi Gras.
There will be no excuse for any
one coming to the Mardi Gras with
out a ticket. If they do, they will 
have a difficult time getting in. 
Alumni should place their orders as 
soon as possible at the Alumni Office 
and tickets will be mailed as soon 
as they aro out. If they will all 
do this, there will be no necessity 
to have tickets sold at the door, thus 
eliminuating the only means which 
others have of gaining admission.
In regard to tickets for the play, 
anyone can have as many of them as 
he desires. Although they are not 
yet on sale, there is nothing to keep 
one from placing ones order at the 
Alumni Office now, and 'being assur
ed of getting good seats. By acting 
now, a great deal of time and trou
ble will be saved.
The reservations for the alumni 
luncheon can be made at two dollars 
per plate, and it is earnestly re
quested that each alumnus notify the 
office of his intett'tion to be present 
as soon as possible. Nothing will be 
gained by waiting until the last mo
ment to do this, and the committee 
will be much better able to make 
arrangements if they know definitely 
beforehand just how many to expect 
at the banquet. The final contract 
with the hotel stating the number of 
plates to prep>fe has to be signed 
the Monday preceding the banquet, 
so that if reservations have not been 
made before that, there is only a 
slight possibility of being able to 
attend the banquet.
opportunity she finds in the writing 
courses to develop her talent. But 
in addition to the literary girl, two 
other types of girl have in the past 
chosen this course as best suited to 
their needs. First there is the girl 
who, intending after graduation to 
become a secretary, prefers not to 
go into a business office. Though 
some of the graduates from the Eng
lish Minor Course hold or have held 
business positions, most take posi
tions in educational institutions, li
braries, newspaper offices, or with in
dividuals who have much writing to 
do. And these graduates tell me that 
the training in writing they had has 
proved more valuable to them than 
more extensive training in business 
subjects would have proved. The 
second type, of whom there have 
been several in the course, is the girl 
who wishes to secure in her college 
years as liberal an education as pos
sible, combined with an adequate 
training for a gainful occupation. 
The richness of the English Minor 
Course in liberal subjects makes that 
course attractive to such girls.
There is but one essenital perequisite for the courseability to 
write English of C grade or better 
in English I. Only under very. ex
ceptional circumstances will a stu
dent whose grade in English I is low
er than C be admitted to the course.
* V *
*
LUMNI LYRICS
By L. D. Allshouse, Ex. 24
COLLEGIATELY SPEAKING IS
CAMPUS WEEK COMEDY
cALUMNI DATES
APRIL 18th........Margaret Morrison Scholarship Bridge, Kanfmanns
Dining Room, 2:30 P. M.
APRIL 20th........Western Conference Smoker, Pittsburgh Athletic
Association, 8:00 P. M.
May 2nd...............Carnegie Chemical Engineers Theater Party, Little
Theater, College of Fine Arts, 8:00 P. M.
MAY 14-15-16.... CAMPUS WEEK
Mardi Grs, May 15.
Alumni Luncheon, May 16.
Watch the Tartan of April 28th for final Campus Week arrange
ments; also the Carnegie Alumnus which will be out May 1st.
No other Campus Week information will be sent' out except that 
contained in the Tartan and Alumnus.
(Continued From Page One.) 
that it was impossible to get the 
Schenley theater this year, the show 
will be played at the Syria Mosque 
on the evening of May sixteenth, the 
Saturday of Campus Week. There 
will be plenty of seats, almost two 
thousand of them, so no one need 
miss the show. Thereis this to re
member, however, at the Mosque, all 
the seats are not equally good, and 
therefore it behooves those who want 
the best seats to do their shopping 
early. The prices for seats have not 
yet been set, but they will be fixed 
soon and the tickets put on sale.
Iioffer Sload, business manager of 
the show, is anxious to get the seats 
sold early so that there will be no 
last minute rush and confusion, and 
will probably announce his plans for 
the sale next week.
Dont put off buying your tickets, 
and run the risk of getting left in the 
cold, for remember, there is but one 
performance.
"Collegiately Speaking its going 
to be one smooth performance.
< Just a single month away,
* So excited scarce can speak,
* Waiting for the opening day
* Of Carnegies Campus Week.
!? Writing all my old-time pals,
* Meet you on the campus soon.  
?I* Dating up a flock of gals
* Just to keep myself in tune.
Jimmy Jones from nineteen-ten 
Told me hed close up his house <
* And hike back to school again
I* With his kids and faithful spouse.  
  
Just to mingle with the bunch.
* All his classmates will be there.  
Other folks have got this hunch 
* Campus Week will sure be rare. 
*1* Gee, what makes time go so  
slow?
* Thirty days seeem like a year 
When Im waitingfor, you know,  
Campus Week will soon be here. 
Schooling in Esthonia
There are practically no Illiterate 
adults in Ksrhonia.
Compliments 
of
Skibo Inn
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellowa 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Oakland Savings & | 
Trust Co. I
Member Federal Reserva 
 System.
*j Capital - - 
,* Surplus - - 
 Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 %
I SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
Y FOR RENT ?
I- $300,000.00  
 - - $300,000.00 X
x~x~x*x~x~x~x~x~x~x~x~x~x
Plan Long Tunnel
A tunnel two and one-half miles 
long that will be the largest in Eng
land is being planned.
Tin
SACK SUIT
(Two and three button)
CuT with that conserv
atism carefully dressed men 
demand, and tailored in ap
propriate, rich patterns 
that stamp them as dis
tinctive.
*3250 to <*4250f
NAtLUXENBERG <5-BROS. 
841 XWOo2To7L 9VT :OWR
j Next showing at Hotel 1 
j Schenley, May 1st and 2nd {
Our style memo, book sent free on request
