^ I ' ^
Men must be at liberty to 
say in-print whatever they have in mind to say, pro* 
vided it wrongs no one.
.CHARLES A. DANAtnle Catmecfie (Tartan
; Today'f Editorials r - ; 
c Crov.ernmcnt
 Cossioustaess 
. .Ticket Trouble.*
German Rearmfrmeflt..
VOL. 29v NO. 15CARNEGIE ^INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; PITTSBURGH, PA,TUESDAY, UN. 22, 1935
Inter frat 
Council Finds 
MemberGuilty 
Of Infraction
Tau Delta Phi Is Fined 
$10.00 for Breaking 
Silence Period
LETTER TO RUSHEES 
IS RULE VIOLATION
Defense Stated, that Local
Chapter Didnt Know 
Leners Were Sent
At the regular meeting of Inter/r?iernity Council last Saturday 
morning Tau Delta Phi was fined 
$10.00 for infraction of the rushing 
rules. The fraternity was fouDd 
guilty of violating Rule III of the 
rushing regulations whlcli Btates. 
"There shall be a alienee period 
from 9:00 p. m.. November 28. un
til 4:30 pm.. December a. No fra
ternity may contact or speak to a 
rushee during this period. " ueia 
sigma Rho instituted the charges.
.sent by mall to each rushee, telling ot the purposes and the merits of its organisation.  This letter was received by the freshman during the silence period os defiued
William Landebergof Beta Sigma Rho pointed out that tills was a direct violation of the regulation since the essence of the rulecomplete silence?'was' broken.' Tau Delta Phi, represented by Sol Farbman, showed that, according to the rules, Contacting conaiBts' of the fraternity making dates withTUBhees for the open rushing period" and since no dates were mentioned in the letter, the rule was sot violated. Further, that thegrand chapter sent out. the letters without the knowledge of the local chapter, therefore the local chapter is not tb. blame.
The 'Council found Tau Delta Phi guilty, of .the charge, maintaining that the definition of ' contact^Vv'a9'aefi5edMu''thi'i^le9'apjplte(l' only to contacting period and.does not refer to the more general use of the word as employed in explaining the silence period. Again, -that any communication onthe part ot alumni or grand chapter during silence period is an infraction of the rushing rules.- The entire procedure was prasid-' ed over by Julian Munster,. president of Inlerfraternity Council.
Plays Presented 
By Drama Dept.
3 Studio Matinees Scheduled 
For Last Week of Jan.
The Department of Drama will 
present three studio matinees dur
ing the last week of January In the 
Studio Theater, administration
building. "The Far-Away Princess,1
maim, will he presented Thursday. 
January 24, at 3:30 oclock.'
The cast is as follows: the lead
ing characters are AvisJane Fer
guson ; LennonHelen, retzfelder; 
others in the cast are Charman 
Leigh, Jne Van Duser, Dorothy 
Hughes, Margaret Herd; M&rle Seafocrgh, Miriam Gleason, Susan Car
ter, Louis Herwitt, Florence Kransei; Cornells Funkhsr,'BeatriceKaltner, June Endean,. Mary Big 
gert, John Hruby and Alex Segal.
Monday, January 28, two acts ot 
"Camille" By Alexandre Dumas and 
another performance of The FarAway Princess" will be presented in the Union at 3:30. The cast for Camille!' is as follows: Camille, Jean Dunheiiy, Roberta Wicks; Armand, Allan Alpern, Drew.Dam; Navine, Carmelita Jacques, Camille Muhr; Nisbette, Frances Tiegel; Olympe, Henrietta Cohen; Gaston, Jerome Kurtz; Count de Varville, John McKercher, CharTes Blue; Pmdence, Fiances Dee, Gloria Quayle; Stage Manager,- Bernard
Voihner. -On Wednesday, January 30, threeone-act plays will be presented in Hie Union. Marcia Leety will direct Faith and -Works." The cast
Carnegie 
Tartan 
Quarter Rour
Helen jayne -.sinxs: ."Wintervonderland-' and. "Dark cn Observatory Hili: ...'.w-. Campus Highlights:' . William aywlgbut*,:.- .fEditora^ot'Ttfrtan
^rl Doser. Annoum *
, Carnegie
Foity-Nine Students 
Are Pledged by Five 
Art School Sororities
Same Number Joined 
At End of Hushing 
La6t Season
ALPHA KAPPA PSI 
SECURES FOURTEEN
List of Pledges Presented 
To Sorority Presidents 
Last Wednesday
ten students. It is interesting to note that the same number of rushees. forty-nine, were pledged at the end of last vears rushing seaThe greatest percentage of this
ity. of which C. Sue Fuller is presto Beta PI. Beta Tau Lambda pledged 20 rushees. Gamma Gamma Gamma . and Phi Delta Mu,-5.
Dean Green Announces Pledges' The sileiice period which opened Thursday, January 3. was formally ended when Miss Mary Watson Green. Dean of Women, presented the list of pledges of each sorority to their respective presidents. Bids submitted to the Deans of^^ Monday, January 14, and malted at that.time to rushees with a formal notice of bidding.
Pledges 'Names 
The pledges who accepted the
Public Lecturer
bid* of the various sororitiespa P*i: ErrrmA Louis ___Mary _B!{orert 58^ VlrrfnltAJpha Kappa Pi: Emma I'Men BumDuS*** '* .....
tam 38. Julia Miller 88, Holon Murdoch 38. DorothT'Sherman '38. Gertrude Steph37, Mary Cnahlaley *T*o Lambda : Kathryn Beltech 37, i dorland .39, Anne Bortz 'SB, Mary vn 'OB. Anahcl Crowell '-39. Carmelita lM-'-30,'GnMlllor.-'38,-CAtnlll r SB, Jane Lloyd '36; Francis Tiegel
i in ran Gomma Gamn>a:v-Man?aret Dorr 38. Eleanor Hodjtdn 38. Jann __rholt "88. Mnnha Kctcuro 36, Carolyn MeCowon 38, Elizabeth Moor 37, 
irlelta Cohen 38.Winifred 
Y.W.C.A. Will Hold 
Dinner Meeting Wed.
A dinner meeting wllf^be beld by the Y. W. C. A. tomorrow at 4:30, in the Margaret MorrisonDr. H. A. Dal-...... . . ilnieter at theShadyslde Presbyterian Church, will be the guest speaker: Followthe discussion, which will be by the speaker, dinner will be
All Margaret Morrison and ColBtudents at Carnegie automatically
fi
Mr. Henry Wright. New York architect, who will speak  to " public. tomorrow, night on < munlty Development.
Public Lecture 
Will Be Given 
By Architect
Henry Wright Discusses 
Community' Housing 
Development
Henry Wright, the New York 
architect, will deliver a public lec
ture tomorrow night at 8:30 in the 
lixhiblllon room of the College of 
Fine Arts. His subject ,1s Critical 
Examination of a Bold Plan for 
'Large-Scale.. .Community^. Develop-, 
ment, In which he will discuss the 
development of the Queens-Astoria 
housing study.
Mr. Wright is a nationally 
known expert in the field of hous
ing. He was a consultant on the 
sight planning of Chatham Village, which was built by the Buhl Foundation, and was also a consultant on Sunnyside. one of the new plot developments In New Jersey.
He has written many articles on the problems of housing and its economic aspects.This is the first time Mr. Wright will speak inpublic at Carnegie, although he has delivered  lectures at Princeton and the University of Illinois.An exhibition of charts Illustrating the development of the QueensAstoria housing study' will be shown in Exhibition hall all this week, in connection with Mr. Wright's lecture.No cards of admission are necessary, the meeting being open to all who wish to attend.
People You Ought to Know...
By Clifton P. Boutelle
A smile is some sort of a facial contortion. Smiles might be 
two. or more facial contortions but in this case "smiles is ElcaEmeroy Siierman, president of the Seiiate of Margaret Mor
rison College. And president of tlie Senate is just one of a biglapfuX .of.. J).Qlitieal plums, she has gathered in four years at 
Carnegie.It all. began when she was made - -------------president ot the freshman class in her flrst semester. This was enough get her into Owens society.
any dance since." - she says. Mortar Board honorary,, called her; last May. She is a member of Phi Kapr pa Plil scholastic honorary, and Kappa Phi Delta social sorority.
Babe Dldrlcksbn type. ShV glories in athletics. The only sport she doesnt engage in le squash. She won an invitation womens golf tournament;, played in the West Penn tennis tourney last year, and recently set a newhigh mark for women at the Beacon alleys when she bowled 173.Some -time ago her picture.-was featured in the Chicago Tribune for havlne won a prize for the best posture among Chicago school children. She has heldthe Southern Club Tuition scholarship for tour, vears: This . scholarship b given!: to..Carnegie. po*dB/ot southera birth Where ws^I_born7^Ohy'vahei'iald;
was deserving so I got the. scholarship.Although born in the political
Pittsburgh. And now she's all tangled up in the votegetting game. She is' publicity manager of the Womens Democratic party of Mt. Lebanon. She has served on two electiou boards and is on the committee for the President's Ball to be held at the WilliamPenn, tickets .56:00 (adVtby request).Being a member cBoard tnbersof Student Council. She was opposed, to granting the Dragons the Council concessions. She believes there-shbuld be more publicity and a fairer distribution of concessions.At the Army-Pltt Football dance last year.she amused herself by cutting the buttons .off the cadet's uniforms. Some fun. Up in a plane, dowii' in a submarine, up in Canada, down in .Virginia, she is 
quite afTavfeter. She has met Norman Thomas and knows*' Daniel Roper, Secretary of Commerce well.. Hed make a wonderful graduation speaker she thinks.'- There is a short story that would add-color to. this description. One Ume she went ut-into-the yard to mow the lawn clad only, in brightly colored shorts. ' The neighbors all forsook the dining table, for the porches. She is a horrible punster.     burEli." sayavElean-ggy. dirty, and dull, expensive place' to have fun in." She cant see.rhymo rior rfcaeon for i the -.way;-Pittsburgh jitreetii are Hid ouL Bui thnift ah right neither can any one Iso
Rules for Arts 
Ball Released 
By Committee
Mimeographed Copies 
Will Be Distributed 
With Tickets
DANCE SCHEDULED 
TO BEGIN AT TEN
North Basement Door to Be 
Only Entrance Available; 
Will Close at 12
Rules which will govern the Arts Ball of 13:> were releosed today after being mutually agreed' upon
trlbuted to those who purchase Ucket6 for tbs Ball.
Tickets for the Ball were placed on6ale last Wednesday after :e highly successful assembly conducted by the "Tribes-of-Bagdad'- society.
- To guarantee the financial
ing to arouse enough' enthusiasm among the Arts School students to make the Ball a success.
The rules for the Ball follow;
. The hours of the Ball shall be from 10:00 p. m'u to 3:00 m. The n9rth basement door shall be the only one used for the entrance and exit of students. No one will be admitted after midnight. . A special identification tag will be given to each Btudent and u*pt,  This tag must be worn at oil times. No one who leaves the building will .be granted re-entrance. No will be allowed above the
alcoves at the ends of the miBzza-i
Tickets must be purchased !n advance. There will be no door sale. The telephone in the deant office will be the only instrument in use. No one will be admitted without'- a costume. These tunies Bhould be of Arabian-design, in ..keeping.., with..Jihe^dsp.oraUvis theme. Persons with objectionable' costumes will not be admitted.Automobiles and tAxles will be permitted to drive to the north >entrance but they must not parlt. Cars may park outside of the restricted area. Reporters will not
Soph. Dance 
Shows Deficit; 
Budget Shown
Receipts Total $215.25; 
Free Tickets Given 
To Twenty-One
Two of Ihe three major dances 
held to dale this year have met 
expenses, an examination of 
budgets dicloBeB. - The Military 
Ball and the Freshman All-Caruegie both cleared expenses, while 
the Soph Hop showed a slight de
ficit. Receipts for the Hop totaled 
$216.26 from the sale af 123 tickets 
at $1.75. Of the 21 com
plimentary tickets issued by the 
committee, live were used by'com
mittee members, four Student 
Council executives, and fifteen by 
chaperons and patrons.
It stb especially notable that of 
ihe. twenty-five faculty members 
invited to the aifair twenty-three 
Sveref present:---- ..... .....
Below the budget of last year 
Hop is compared with that of thie 
years dance.
SOPH HOP
Boeing Award 
Judges Named
Prof. Blaisdall Placed 
On Aero Committee
neerlng, has been chosen of the four members of the National Committee' of William E. Boeg Scholarship awards.The committee, of which Dr. B. .M. Woods is chairman, will read the competing essays and appraise the candidates. The award -to the first-prize winner will be a twoyear complete ground and flying course at the Soeing Aeronautical school, in Oakland, California.Professor Blalsdell will go by aeroplane ' front''Cleveland 'to Oakland, California,1 where the meeting of the awarding committee will
asked to give a. speech at the reception, which will be held to introduce tli members of the committee, officials - of the Boeing Aeronautical school, and candidates for the awards.Besides Professor Blalsdell and Doctor Woods, the committee inComing Events
Wednesday
' 30Y.- W, C. -A.-Sieetiae, Br i; Dalzell, guest speakerA. Dalzell, Recreation
8:30Public. Lecture, Critical Examinationof a . Bold Plan .for >a Large-Scale Community Development, Henry; WrightrExhlbltlon Room,- Fine Arfs.Buildlng.Thursday; ;12:30EarlWild, Plano RecitalExhlbltlon Room/Fine Arts Building.12: SOSafety ' .Valve Meeting  Philosophy of Socialism,
Hall'.3:30Studio; Matinee"The Far Aw Princess.8:15Euripides AlcestIs-r-Llt. tie :Theater.Friday. 3:30Matinee; Euripides' "Alces......... tis'S^Little Theater. .^Monday
sT" 3BB8I
3 10Studio Matinee Camille
Freshmen Hold 
Annual Assembly
Freshman class of the College of 
Engineering will meet at 11:0 
this mornine in room 21s. Engi
neering Hall. This assembly is an 
annual affair underthe direction 
of Dr. Ibrlg. Director of Freshman 
in .theCollege of Engineering. Its 
chief purpose is to give an oppor
tunity to the freshman to clear up 
questions and difficulties about the 
closing of the semester and the registration for the new one.
Dr. Ihrig in his talk to the group will explain the svstem of grading what to do in the case of an F. or R; and how to go about the new system of registering which will bestarted in February.
Previously, each person had to wait his turn in a long line to register. The new plan is to chart all freshman engineers, and give each one a definite time to appear for registration for the second semester. The average time allotted to each one for the process of registering is.two minutes.
Brown House Gets 
T rus tees A itention
According to William F. Becker 
35, president of Student Council, 
there are no new developments of 
'ny "major importance as -far &a 
action of the Carnegie Board of 
Trustees on the proposal to transf orni' the BfOWM-HTijse into -au a* 
tMtlee burning is concerned. The 
committee appointed by the Board investigate the matter has rested that more definite information concerning the plans of StuCouncil be tendered . before their final report Is made.
Mr. Bcckcr spent some time in l interview with the members of ie. Boards investigation committee discussing the feasibility of making the changes In tlie Brown property. During the conference, nembers of the committee 1 that a list of all of the activities that Council expects to house in the proposed headquarters, together with a rough scketch of a possH>!c-flOior-pJaji>.h.sent tl\em as soon a6 possible.
The committee will then investigate th proposition once roor.c in the light ot the new information and notify Student Council ia the very near future of their decision on the. matter.'
Rates are Lowered 
For Skinner Drama
.matinee February 6. may be obtained from Prof. Elmer Kenyon in Room 104 in the College ot Fine Arts. Miss-Skinner-will present "The Loves of Charles If," "The Empress Eugenie," and "The Wives of Henry VIII,
The evening prices lows: first floor and first three rows of the first ; balcony. 2.20 seats':for-;$l.-70: firet^balcony. $1;6B, seatg^ sefAnd-^.-balcony,$110 neats for 90 ceuts.-J. > > v pjii . 1 -J
Little Theater 
Will Present 
Greek Drama
Prof. Wallace to Direct 
Euripides *AIcestis\ 
Tragi-Comedy
INITIAL SHOWING 
BEGINS THURSDAY
Translation and Interprta
tion by Gilbert Murray Is 
Basis of Production
Euripides' "Alcestis" will be pre
sented by the Department of Drama 
in the Little Theater for six per
formances beginning Thursday 
night, and a matinee on Friday at 
3:a0. This play Is the fifth pro> 
duct/onby the department during the current season.
nually staged the Gr.ee' tragedy li eluded In the Little Theater series, is directing this early drama of Euripides. " Is being slated in rua work by
J. Bateheller 
i*ructor of eurythm >d the chorus of la production, The Medea.
''Alcestis, because it hsB c happy.ending and because It cam< fourth or as an after-piece, to thi usual trilogy of tragedies, is re garded as having taken the place' of the
lous doraei
ancient thea*
Mary Hubleygave up her life that her husband, King Adme. etba might live. As Ehirlpldes tells the story, Admetus, on being summoned by death was allowed to pro-' cure a substitute. Falling to-flud his aged parents willing to take his place, he accepts-the Dffer of his wife, who is forthwith strlckeu. Amid the mourning for her decease, the blustering' demigod, Heracles, arrives and becoming eventually suspicious of. his royal hosts forced hospitality rescues Alcestis from the. grip of death. In his characteristic heroic fashion he ea her to her somewhat astonished husband.
Euripides, who examined these legends realistically and thereby startled his audiences, shows up the Greek idea of the inferiority of woman and her required, submlsslveness to man by stripping Admetus of every manly quality, even to the point.of making him
Cast for Production
.The past for the play, which Is produced according to Gilbert Murrays 'translation ariil'inferpretation, Includes Joseph' Bateheller, Car) Dozer, Janet -Patrick, MaryHubley, Brin tQjn Tiirkifi, William Herz, Dorothy Egli, Hairy Long, Polly Howies, Mary Cheffey. John Kanlden Smith, Ralph N:
ard Watkins, John Gordon, Mai<.-elm  Milligan,. Homer Hull, James McConnell, .Charles Aslibaugh, William Canton, Douglas Pannier, Eleanor Blowser, Alice Robinson, Dorothy ODonnell, Mary Hughes, George Taylor, Amalia Rese, Mltilrld Barrlck, and Sara Scott
Music Maker
Baron Elliot, who. with Hli ohestra. will furnish the music for the ,,penny-a-pound,f dance Friday
Novelty Dance 
Is Scheduled 
For Friday
Penny-a-Pound Ad
mission Charge Is in Ef
fect; Top Price $1.25
Penny-a-Pbuud" dance scheduled for Friday evening from 0:00 till 1:00 In Ttjlstle' Hall.
- -Instead sf -theone . dalla mission usually charged for these dances, tlie commltteo has Instituted a program which .taxes each couple a cent a pound weifeht of the lady. Weights will be kept strictly confidential, 
Further, the maximum charge has been limited to $li26 per co pie. A premium, in the form of twenty-five cent reduction of the price for admission has been.placat both extremes of the.scales will be admltteed without charge.
-Ba to o-,'Elliots and. -his ..orchestra, have appeared before on the Car-' negle campus, having played for the Notre Dame football ;dance, and the Scimitar tea dance. They have also played at many functions of the University of Pittsburgh, and *re now playing an extended enngement at the Park CaBlno.Chaperons for this dance are not
Ballet Composer 
Will Give Recitals
Earl Wild Presents Concerts 
Each Thursday at 12:30
Earl Wild, composer of the Ballet 
music, will present a series of halfhour piano recitals, beginning this 
Thursday at 12:30. The recitals 
will take place In the Exhibition 
room. College of Fine Arts. There 
no charge for admission;
These programs will be offered 
every Thursday for tlie next three 
week's.
The following are the selections 
for Mr. Wilds program:1. Chopin ... .Waltzes Op. 69, No. 1 
_0Q 60. Na. 2
op. io. Nl. Op. lO. N. - Op. 26, No. 1 Oft 26, No. 3 JL-Chapln ..Pxeludefl.Op, 28.No. 8 Op. 28, No. 16 Op. 28, No. 17 Op. 28, No. 22 0^.28, No. 24
Scherzo in B. Flat Minor
Shock and Vibration-Proof 
Laboratory Nears Completion
Molecular Itivestigation 
Of Gases Is Possible 
With New Room
room as free from, shock and 
vibration as.lt is humanly'possible 
to. construct Is jiearing completion
oratory for such experiments In which the. extremely sensitive apparatus used would be materially affected Tiy the sway and vibration ,of an ordinary room.
Excavations for the room were carFISS to bed'Tock, upon-whlch was laid a layer of a specially prepared resilient substance. . On this
tho. resilient shock absorber, and that .together with the great Inertia of the pier will be sufficient to give extremely steady support to the instruments.
'Needed For Experiment . . The. room was necessitated bv the Investigation, of' thenature of
and John A.-Ord 34, graduate stu*
small -that' a super-sensitive galvanometer :with a multiplying device must be-used.  Thie instrument, which would -give a deflection of one millimeter when exposed to the light of a candle one mile away, is so affected by. the sway of Engineering Hall due to wind and . weather' condition as to be rendered useless when used in an ordinaryroom. Forthis reason vlbration-iit'f vrt Is beireta acrMracy/.iJslng.tlie.extremeobtained important.. data_mission llries in the fine structure ot the infra-red - spsetrum ot ben7ene. This information may>Iead to th.e ; explanatlon ; of< the' exact coupling i of . the carbon: an-hy:droyentomB'inthebeniene:mole*
Metallurgical 
Board Holds 
Eighth Annual 
Meeting Here:
Reports Will Be Given 
On Work in Metals 
Research Lab.
ALL DAY SESSION 
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 8 ;
Prominent Metallurgists 
Of Industry.-, to. Diseuse 
Recent Findings .
nual opou meeting of the .Metallurgical Advisory Board to be held :: Friday. Feorimrv 8. oo ths oampufl. Approximately 400 metallurgists are expected to attend the meeting. ; 
Dr. John Johnston, dlreotor of the :,-
tlon. will preside at the morning-' session, and. Dr. Frank N. Speller.-; chairman of the Advisory Board -. will give the address of weloomo. * 
Progress made bv the Metals Re /. search - Laboratory at CarneglOs in -
1SDrUR.i
ulasBiiled under four major ] namely, plastic deformation-: ot metals, precipitation from solid solution, oxidation ot metals,"-and dlffiiBionln metallic alloysDr-F.-^v-: M. Walters, Jr.. formerly of -the j?--. staff of-this laboratory.-will offer final .report, on .the manganese, and carbon, which he Investigated for a period of several'^'-'1 years at'Carnegie 
Dr. Cyril Wells, also of thft  metals . .laboratory, will explain-the - ^ v preparation "and properties oE highpurity Iron and will report "i...
report, of the morning session .wlll; * be read by 'B, N. DonilofT;' research .? fellow, on "Tho Effcct;orDeoxtdo*v^ tlon on the Ageing of Mild Steeled-i the afternoon session at which '. i - ralmetalh " ':LaughlM-'': '-presMe.-- .. r.. lormor.. rector of research for the :MetiiIv
made under, hie direction i legle.
TheBe reports will conclude the program of researcn on the physical chemistry, of steel-moklnff
cl Advisory Board. The, subjects ! of the reports to be given by DrHdrty include "The Effect of Deo idtion on the Impact Strength 'ofCarbon Steels at Lowlure, Rate of Transform Grain Sizes, "Deoxidi Steel, and The Control Oxide In the Basic Op< Process.A group of prominent (Continued on Page
8non or >i of iron fi len'Hearth r 
Alumnae Plan 
Silver Jubilee
Helen Bradshaw *15 Is^ 
Chairman of Dinner  .
of the event.  :   (, Guests of honor who liave been nvl*edv to -attend -th -oolebratioit-v ire Di:. Baker. Dr. and Mrs Wat^ kins, Miss Mary Watson Green Miss Mary B. Breed, former dlrec* -'i.' tor of Margaret Morrison Mlg Julia Morgan Harding, Mis Plill *put, Miss Ruth Andrews, and Mr:-... Orbln. M1S9 Harding, Mrs. Phlipnt '^ and Mr. Orbln were all on the staffii-' of Margaret Morrison when -tlie'i' college was-established. 5Mrs. Bradshaws committee in 5
of Margucrlte Menges Shupp 16 Helen Bosworth Orr 18, Margarete Mnttern Stoeltzing *20, Josephln? j Gibson Eckert '25, Christin/' ( Leighou. and Alice Work both 4 program including
shaw, 1216 Shady avenue. The' i lessment Is $1.60.
Drives are being conductedtovse-jsg additional support  trom v tha^'R classes of '08. '09. 14. ?19. '24.: an'd>:fe 29 in the Pittsburgh district,' amir-*1. more extensive cftMpwgu-is^b^ Ing plannedto. include all classes^ and all Carnegie Clans.}-. .Mr.. J. W. Daugherty, - recently elected president ofthe Federation^ has 'pledged himself to renewithei interest once heldamong-.the alutn.^8___The :gradiifttes will: h'4imSSgg8conscious of their obligations'^ Camegle and of the respanelw? which rests on themfor.the

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN.-TUESDAY, JANUARY 22, 1935
Tltie Tatrnee 3Tartatt
lend ln the Plltsbnrgli Post Offiw as eccond-cia** matter.
____WILLIAM LANDSBERGJ11I.IAN P. UUNSTEB_____________BOT MINET________HAROLD J. BAEB_________JEROME HANSON_____.HARGARET C BIFFIN____HERBERT P. SCHWARZ___DUDLEY O. FENJJ LETONlAiuiu, V#mnte Kloo. /Liviasrto--  COPY EDITOR: Rnti GasUfson.; HEAD EDITOR: Gwen Haddock.
1 JUNIOR EDITORS: WUer AdnmBOD. Ottton Bkratelli 
REPORTERS : Toby
. StiasglnE Editor. 
' TEATURE EDITORS:
i. BUSINESSSTAFF :.
. Layton, Keith McCntcbeoo, 
CIRCULATION STAFF: Albert J
In each college, where they could be called 
for at a time convenient to all students of that 
coliegeV the .trouble might be alleviated.
Thin" plan, though presented seemingly-to 
favor only the. engineers, is, In reality, fair to 
all the students because It Is based upon pro
portionate distribution. If' merely attempts 
to 6et aright a disadvantage which Is an out
come of the present method.
Government Consciousness
. The introduction, into the curriculum o courses in the study of govs;.;',K eminent, such as Political Seienee or
; Practical Politics.
. Toincrease interest in national affairs 
' by giving students a better understanding 
Ix-V :  of the workings of the government and by 
' -interpreting the-trends of events so that 
' they may become, more intelligent voters 
; ' '. and .better citizens.
i;'' - -. -To emphasize the need In government 
ill-' rv ' of trained college graduates and to encourage tudente to take the lead upon 
$i;rgraduation so that honest, intelligent and 
b I :U'.V'efficient local and national government
i  may be more easily obtained. (Point from
i'lV.-the Tartan Platform).
gytnn sweeping measures^and bold strokes,  s. J. which have characterled the actions of 
-'- the present administration have kept the atJ ' ; faire of the nation continually before the eyes 
of the people. New legislation, bringing govemment closer home than ever before,.has Ini ; tftnHifled the interest in what Is happening in
:;;i!'-?!the national capitol. Unfortunately, that in
terest is of a what's going to happen next* 
naturea. curious wonderment which must 
i-*.:# l satisfy itself with what it finds in the news" papers
^SjJil.'..':Hewspapers can be adequate in only one 
isfiifj-sspect, they can INFORM. They cannot 
"ji'ivsjiCEDUCATE. That remains for the colleges to' 
1 do That la what the colleges MUST do.
| U  i The interest is there to begin with,' to work 
with It mu t be made Into a wide-awako inlfyji^tereBt that grows an understanding of WHY 
things, are -happening and WHAT SIGN1FI 
CANCE they have. Ignorance of a subject 
** ( will ireed di interest. That danger must be 
.si;Vrf^avolded- Much bas occurred in th last three' 
l-^-s^kyeaxs and much more will occur that needs 
T | clarification and. Interpretation. The trend 
of government becomes more obvious daily. 
r It 1 toward the point where Washington will 
fcve  finger in almost everything we do. It 
? flEHOOVES us to see that that finger is an 
1 intelligent one. To do that we must underr.T.-:-;:i-:i fltand more clearly than the newspapers can 
Jy explain to u the policies of dur government 
.if i-!-7;jvand their effect upon us.
!-=Aiiy'- - Colleges must adapt themselves to changing 
<* j conaition , and conditions are changing swiftly 
;i-now, particularly in government..
if the'purpose of higher education is to pre7- ire people to live in society to. the greatest 
i^ iS-i  tSvanlage to society aud to themselves, then 
institutions of higher education must equip 
i-riiiviiheir students with adequate knowledge of the 
.^-S^jyorkJngi?- ofgovernment-so ..that -when they 
jadaate, they can find their places in society 
:k-7;?:Si.'HB-iiitelligent voters and better citizens.
ultimate objective is to have every instipr-ahi tution of higher learning In the country pro* 
il^iVii. vide its students with education in govern/!'T^!-metit There MUST be a place on 'every cur
riculum for it Its too important to be omit*
German RearmamentS
O far. Hitler has succeeded In defying the 
Treaty of Versailles.
One look, at the .present International situa
tion would indipate, that Fart V of the treaty 
Is. on the y/ay. t.diBCfUd., Gennany, after leav
ing the-League of Nations and the Arms con
ference; has denounced the limitations placed 
upon her armaments. Quite naturally, the Al
lied nations contend that the' obligations of the 
Reich pannot he,dismissed by.a'.mere unilateral 
declaration. Nevertheless, Hitler has gone 
ahead with - bis rearmament plans, and it is 
quite obvious that-neither France nor any 
other signatory of the Treaty of Versailles in
tends to go to war about it.
So Germany declares herself entitled to 
equality in armaments and proceeds on the 
basis of complete disregard .for Part V -of. the 
Treaty while Gret Britain, Franco and Italy 
wonder whether it wouldn't be. wiser if Ger
many wore brought to some sort of an agree
ment. And such a compromise Is not at all un
likely. Germany agreed. .In Article 164 of the 
Treaty that after she. becomes a member of 
the League-of Nations the armament limita
tions fixed for her shall remain in force un
til they re modified by ihe. Council of the 
League., "  <   
With Germany back in the League, the 
Council will, in all probability, modify .the fa
mous table II which restricts the size of the 
German forces. These limits call for an army 
no greater than 300,000 men, a navy no greater 
than 6ix small - battleships, six light, .cruisers, 
twelvu destroyers nnd.twelve torpedo boatB, no 
submarines of any kind and no sir force what
soever.
But what was. Inevitable ..has begun to take 
place. These restrictions are no longer In 'op
eration os'far as tho German government is 
.concerned. In fact, Berlin has clearly stated 
Its policy to build an air force, a declaration 
.which has caused the British no end of worry.
It would seem rather futile for the Allies lo 
attempt to ..maintain their legal rights accord
ing to the Treaty. France is not going to send 
an army to Berlin and England is not going 
to blockade German ports in order to force 
her to reduce her army and to prevent her 
from building up an air force. To submit to 
a comprise that would at-least have the advan
tage of international inspection and supervis
ion would. In the long run, prove better than 
allowing things to go on as they are now, 
with German preparations proceeding in ao 
unlimited manner.
As yet,- German officials have given no of
ficial indication of their attitude toward the 
suggestions that have been made. - The polit
ical isolation she now m6t endure is a matter 
onsldera^lV chc'ern'.tcr. U th&Tiiech lead: 
Her return' to .Geneva,, though, hinges upon 
whether her right to arms equality is reconlzed.-
ted
Ticket Trouble
T: \Vf HAT with only 390 seats in the Little 
:uvv : Theater and with first consideration going to subscribers, faculty and Drama students,
 it's no wonder that the distribution of the 
. .'.remaining tickets for tho productions of the 
;.v.-,.--Dnima Deparcraent is a perplexing problem. 
.There is practically no hope that a thoroghly 
satisfactory method will be nevlsed, for the 
obvious reason that the demand is, and al* 
ifetsi^-ays: will be. greater than the supply. Still, 
i.y.int' doesnt presume that the present system, 
f pursues a "flrst come, first serve polcannot be improved upon.
- f there must be few tickets for the benefit 
^the students, then the important .thing is 
civethem distributed in proper proportion 
3>p?moDg the colleges. The largest college in 
'.'pithe.'institution is the College of Engineering. 
'^-Furthermore, the engineers areprecisely the 
-would, .derive.. tae. .greatest. hen.eflt 
rota-i the. production -at the Little Theater - bei.it Would provide them, even though 
a'small degree, with some of the' cultural 
v&nlages.to-be gotten from Carnegiesomek)?*' which their, curriculum sadlylackstolriteifc ng "h ch 1& definiteljessential it 
hem;-".-..:'?
^Cnder .the: present system, which distributes 
.from.the Registrar^ office at 
: In' the morning,, the great majority of 
;ineers,are at a. disadvantage-because of 
^iylng eight-thirty... classes..  If, Instead, 
dls^buted^fro^
^of the varione collrgeat in
. E. Horizon
By Robert R. French
The Brain Trust, theorists struggling with practical problems, professors running't governmentall these phrases are becoming little tiresome. But about one man there ir sense of authority, knowledge .and direction the hullaballoo of Washington. At present Donald rtichberg has as nearly a key position as any man sy' has entered, and left, the Washington sceue. Director of the National Emergeucy Council, executive director of the Industrial Emergency Committee, executive secretary of the Executive Council and general counsel of the NRA, now dubbed assistant President,'lie seems capable of hearing up under thiT&heer weight ot' titles.
Mr. Richberg is practical and he has ideas. Buthe aiso haa legal.knowledge, and tbe combination of these three qualities in the one man makes him invaluable in the puzzling task of co-ordiuating Industry, labor and farmiiig;'--FurtiKr; hespealis a v-arled-language^-ta the employer he is sympathetic; as chief counsel for - the railroad brotherhoods, he understands the .difficulties of labor; as aid to his father In the political dilemmas of Chicago, he listens cannilyto the politician who enters his Washington office. His mind is practical and logical, and his idealism Is based on years of legal training and battling."
 My experience, he said, leads me to conclude that there is no problem inthe world that cannot be settled by reasonable discussion. It is when reason brcalcs down and emotion holds sway, that conflict ensues. Karl Marx's theory was absolutely unsound beable . . .
I do not believe in the principle of Marxian gO.claUSTO _that. .social. Jystl.c* lilished by direct political act1 felt that social'justice cau' I__________by economic readjustment, which may, course, be indirectly brought about by political actiou. That has been my only interest iu politics?
Richhergs grandfather, Louis Richtberg
liberal political faction of his> day, the Republican party. His sou, John, a Union sailor in the-Glvii-War,-beeam-c disgusted -with the postwar attempts at reconstruction of the Republicans, turned to the Democratic - party, later
dall, descendant of Governor Carver of___achusetts. When fifty years old, Mrs. llichberir entered medical school in .Chicago.' At 
these hands young Richberg received a*liberal
uated from Harvard Law-School and'entered banking, corporation and insurance law.Disliking the. work, he ran for States Attorney In Illinois e whn - thirty-one. . .TheProgressive movement ,f 1913-14 won' him' over,.' and/.he. jwxote^;tf
alynlflcapc;
Writers Row
v WE, THE PEOPLE .
Some, years ,ago; while I. yeti'wept upon 
each successive reading of Elsie Dlnamor, 
an American author, moved by the hackwash of events but raising extra ripples 
In that same bacfyvasb, published a scath
ing denunciation of Americano, or more 
particularly of Gopher Prairie. He both 
set and followed the fashion  of scoffing 
at small town architecture, small town 
customs, small town people, Indeed.every
thing that made a small town a email 
town. I. confess that, having, once lost 
faith ,ln dr little-Elsie l-drank4n all of 
Mr. Lewis writings to the last sour dropi.
I confess that I Joined, not loudly but with 
carefully mocking tones, In. th wav..of 
Lewlslanechoes which swept .the land, 1 
confess even to having, tbe guilty feeling 
of a traitor when, hiding new-found soph
istication, I te and enjoyed' both angel 
food and chocolate cane, and then read, in 
cold blood, the next mornings accounts - 
of dainty refreshments. ; 
I spent this summer In Gopher Prairie. True, the place Js in tbe east. . Instead of fields of: grain just beyond the edge of town there is the cool, blue Sound. The older streets at least are shielded from the glare by tall trees growing from great, green, swollen places in the lawns.. But tbe business district is Gopher Prairie in all its'glory* Across the street-from here. Is tbe Art Shoppeuglier, more glittering vases never were seen. Jusl beyond 1b the drug store, then a grocers, and then theglories of the show I 'never shall cause the Gopher .Prairie Bijou is the last stop oh the road to tbe films grave. Be-, yond the theater, just opposite the dry goods store, Is the alley entrance to the laundry, then another drug store, and an- other, and beyond that the two grey stait for the winning fight it tells against s land all too Inclined to -the damp decay of a marsh.
I spent the most American, of-ohT national. holidays in Gopher ' Prairie. The sidewalks, the cars, the people themselves were surrounded by a shimmering aura of heat. They stood along the edge of the street and cheered, cheered when the flag passed, and when the high school
i thumping far ahead In front. They
proved'to he someones uncle msaqueradafter group filed past to receive -awards. The stories they told the children of a noble Washington and a noble Valley Forge were scarcely bon mots, but, rather,'
I stayed In Gopher Prairie after the holiday excitement-'bad dieddown,-rstayed after the. family next .-door  had -left to spend its two-week vacation at camp. I staye.d..longenough.for the picnic of the -workers. In the towns main industry. I stayed to help the hostess at a birthday party for her' angel child (I think they called him little Aubrey). Far longer than I had originally Intended I stayed, because I enjoyed the simple routine of th^ place, the neighbors who wondered If you
mrnlng whiteness! I welcomed the freebut ohbecause Main Street was the least inhabited place in a vauntedly uninhabited
Sinclair Lewis allows himself tlie privilege of liking, of giving ungrudged 'admiration to at least some of his characters, and those characters the self same commonplace people who have, as objects of their
-tionnl by-word.
But Sinclair Lewis has changed more than his attitude. This time I think he lias changed his' position, from leader to moulder of public opinionn perhaps uninPITTS COLLEGE threw their Interfralernity Ball last Frl? 
day at the Schenley Hotel -. . . they struggled to the strains of - . 
Emerson Gill and his orchestry . . . Munster and McKelvey enjyd'therfance' eemensley< -. .. o but -why shouldnt, they, it didnt 
cost. tem anything.. . . Kelen Camp was there, but I dont know 
who with ... I couldnt see very well . . . without my glasses. '
JUST ACROSS THE HALL the Delts were having another '
' one of'.their F. & D. (frolic and dance) parties . . .It's getting 
to be a habit . . . and say, Will Ryshanek has quite a band . ; .
- eh what?
CHICK OVERENTD and a couple of his cronies were loitering 
.--In tbe lobby . . . Ralph Davis and Lts Van Valkenberg were 
also loitering . . . but not in the lobby.
THE KAPPA SIGS held a radio dance Saturday night and 
had a full house . . . however, nothing out of the ordinary oc.
' curred, so my friends tell me.
DID ANY OF YOU fellers happen to notice the snow men in 
front'of the girls dormitories the' othr day? . . . whats thematter'ladles? . . . are we getting too hot for ya?
ALL HAIL Captain Ackley, our hero and' monarch ... 1 
. hear that when but a lad he was asked what he wanted to be 
when he' grew up ... he replied twit: Quote, I want to be a na
tional figure, unquote . .. . he is well on the way ... In th ' 
race, Joe Mihm rah second and George Goodridge, third . . . 
time: 2:2 . . - weather clear; truck fast. . ..see Puppet.
IT SEEMS THAT about half the class didnt show up in 
Mechanics last-week, so Mr. Salbel throws) a quiz . . . Ill fix 
those absentees, he sez,. if any of you gentlemen dont know 
( how to do the problem. Just see me1 . . . those present received
As . . . those absent, failures . . . hmmm . . . mmm . . .
, 1 cant get over it)
AND IF ANY of you ladB are behindIn your jokes, just s*ep 
over In the .Y-room any morning between 9:30 and 11:30 ... we 
guarantee results . . . and at no cost, whatsoever. *** 
AND BOY WAS Snyder eore, when he found out that Polly, 
his dove, didnt draw Ihe lucky number and win a free ticket lo 
the Arts Ball . . . now Frank, arent you expecting a little too
much? . ... by the way, who did win? . . . thats a swell way to
Bave four bucks.
DID YOU KNOW that the Junior Prom Committee had and 
; lost Duke Ellingtons-Orchestra within tbe short space of two 
hours? ... I understand that they spent the next couple of 
hours not signing up Rublnoff and his violin.
BOOMLatest -reports from the :
Sugar Lehne has been signed up a; 
ride team.
-,-; PpMB:; \
. v'r^^h^lttle Johnny-killed his sister,' 
,r  thlDg a brother should not do;
 t ; Said his mother, Now youll catch It,
Youve spoiled your fathers brand ne 
ANOTHER:
The stag at eve had drunk his fill,
He lost his lunch on Monan's rill.*
(See Scott's Lady of the Lake ... 1
Dear Editor
follower, to niediu
.tent}ona.lTTTTof..public..opinion. *.He..aeftms .i .represent a national return to normalcy at which I, once devoted disciple of the Lewisian philosophy or, Tather, the Lewisian misanthropy, rejoice. We are realizing at
few who are aware. It is time that the much maligned hick came Into his own awkward perhaps, inarticulate, or -worse, overarticulate, but doing in his own way the hundreds of things without which those who claim to speak "another language would soon be lost. To be a Hallam no longer is to be hard, cold, stupid; it is to be steady .and honestdull, perhaps, but only to the casual observer. To be ordinary is to possess all the glories of living without wasting one atom of them in an affected pose of Oh, the wonder of it all! Indeed, in all literature I can "think of ' no rlclier;' more riieaningtul 
when in 1926 he single-handed waged legal war against .the 160 corporation lawyers ' the countrys greatest railroad valuation c? Hard-hitiljjg, with a store of facts and an easy humor, he beat Insull in many utility rate battles. A member of the law firm of Richberg, lekes and Richberg, he was co-author ofthe.Railroad.^abor Act.in.l926.,_.._.... ......
Novelist,, historian, economist, musician
factions of NRA into a unit to strengthen the countrys industrial attack on a shattered business life. Richberg has never bepn a radical in the sense of violent change. Every 'single right and protection the indlvJdual has in society -has been created legally. And itby the;sam process b modlfled to .meet___changing .needs, .. . .oThere ie-'nothing 'static in-pur,'llfe.v;<-Aiidbere^ln^ls-wnvLWordfli
Dear Editor:The Tartans reprint of .Wechslej-'s editorial on the red scare being raised by the Hearst newspapers and other organizations struck a responsive note in many sections of student opinion. It did certainly in the opinion of thcwrlter! As executive secretary of the Pittsburgh chapter of the National Student. League, the writer was blazoned hi fiery colors by the ent Sun-Telegraph,' In . similar if feebler, vein to the attack on the i organization at Columbia, wh|ch Inspired the. Spectators stand. It is good to know th'al'ati .tiempt Is under way by the more reasonable student publicists to
the University of Pittsburgh, and the attempt of ihe Sun-Telegraph to1 stirrup:a similar opinion against certain-students and faculty members here clearly Indicates that organization demands counter-organization. A non-partisan group definitely committed to an uncompromising struggle against encroachments - on academic freedom, against'..increasingly heavier student economic, burdens, against further militarization and Naziflcatlori of our schools in any form must be-tlie students' and tlie instructors chief machinery of defense!. The writer hopes that the validity of his .discussion Is not impaired by' Ills confessedly special 'intSresi; fre'foeiie^s-thati:\e--Nifc-- tional Student League; is the best, if iiot the only existing means of carrying on this action, If -you agree with that; -humorous convites your participation.
Sincerely,
P. MORRISON 36.
On Second Ttought
Dudley D. Pendleton, Jr.
The World Court
As .tlie question of the World Court i6 again brought up in the Senate, it :begins to appear for the first tim that America Is on the * pledging herself 
nothing of the kind when I heard we had :tostthe case: . . . and-1 find that the result has-been a. closer friendship with the country concerned. Even though In some cases we lose, we can feel that (he fact of having spared the nationsthe horrors or war, constitutes in iteelf a victory. . .Why We Should Join The whole question of the World -Court seems tome to boll down lo whether we want to. continue to drift without any.real, peace mabrlngs only suffering, - waste and
Pendleton, Jr.: e Ellhu Root, proposed a method of selecting judges which acceptable to the League of >ns and instrumental in tbe forming of the Court in 1922. This -esolution proposes that the Senate consent to the adherence of the United States to the World Court with certain reservations, le most controversial being one hlch gives the United States the power to prevent the court from handing down an advisory opinion l a question In which the United States has an interest.
Idea of World Court Not New . The Idea of a world court for the settlement of international disputes may be traced a6 far back as 1650. The first American plan, however, was not suggested until
find America presenti a court at the first world pence conference at Tbe Hague and again in 1907. This last was not acceptable because of disagreement over the method of selecting judges and nothing was done.Finally in 1920 an international committee on which Ellhu Root the' American representative accepted the Root plan whereby each nation be allowed to nominate four persons, two from somo other country, and the League Council and Assembly electing the judges from this group. The Court was opened in 1922.
The Court Set-up Fifteen judges elected for nineyear terms and representing as much as possible all of the worlds principal legal systems, make up the Court. They are not chosen
control, for they can only be dismissed by a unaniihous vote of the other members of the Court. The Court meets, as often as is necessary at the Peace Palace at The Hague and lias at least one meeting every year. Salaries are paid by the League of Nations.Any government mpy * bring
must be published.The-Courts Record Of the sixteen dispute's which the Court has settled to date, many have been of such character that they might easily.have led to
tlon has ever refused to-abide by the Courts decision.When a case was decided against France a few years ago, France:
for judgment and lose them should not consider that they have anything of their dignity. T felt
to show signs of being civilized and put our disputes In the-hands of an international court.Those who object to our joining quote dogmatically the worn out phrases The Court is tlie' back door -to. the League of Nations" and Muddling in European politics will burn our fingers.The only danger as far as being
'Pllsh ( .thing; and as to being drawn into European politicsthe present plaa
any matter in which
Court Well Supported The fact that the United States
during the twelve, years of its  istance does not mean that It has not had the support of the various administrations. Every president-, since tbe war has advocated ourjoinlng and the plan hasbeen endorsed by both the mojor political
olutions for adherence and it has -received the support, of. the American Bar Association as well as 6& state and local Bar Associations.
Now or Never Certainly now is our chance to show that we are a big nation69 senators are now believed to favor the general Court proposal. If. speedy action can be had and a
ntly Located for Tech
First Trinity Lutheran Church
. MERKENS,
Wearied by
. . . /ff 04?
a Windbaq?
06/ Cyo/c/
Choose your bank 
as you 'would choose  
a fnend 
 *
MELLON NATIONAL 
BANK^
If youre cornered at a fancydress ball by a tedious ME-Man, dont let the 
pest spoil your party. Count ten and light a 
sunny-smooth Old Gold. Every puff of a mellow, 
mild O. G. is like a friendly pat on the back.
AT TRYINQTIMES ... . TRY A SncatA OLi) GOLD

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTAN. TUESDAY, JANU&KY 22, 1935 ->'I
el^cS19cadM|9len. ^|S
100, '<lTHE
TUESDAYL
QUARTERBACK"V
  9
BY JERR HANSONPeop
MILT DINGER is IN the MARKET for -anelectrically controlled, 
luck with automatic gun attachment. The games are,.still being run 
pretty elosc,.- and there might:!'use for one yet. I might suggest-the 
purchasing,.of an eJrtenalon for the gym, tool
SPORTS STAFF JS ON THE SPOT asfar. as getting a writi the Temple tussle, although It will have, happened by the time 
he Tartan le out. Weighing this with that, 4d' say It was, a pretty
Haonums loopers did a good job on. Geneva'.  The Pittsburgh 
japers made a lot out of'ihe change to the man-to-man defense, hut 
Max, the team reverted to that formation only tor a 
raction of a minute, .a order to gain possession of tbe ball. He 
licks to tbe zone defense pretty regularly.
Captain Ted Rigg took first in the riager count, and Babe Patt 
I flowed not far behind.. Ginsberg shone for tbe opposition. The 
; all boys handled the jumping at center consistently and conveniently 
 the PJaid. *.
jTOOLE IS NO LONGER coaching the plebea. Jerry ha6 been se* ectcd by Boxing Coach Ernie Seato to handle the large frosh flstl?4uffs aggregation. 'Red Silverman Is taking over OToole's job coach* 
g the plebe cagers. His record Is pretty good to date.
Incidentally, there will be a gala exhibition of the gentle art of 6elf 
iferense In the Gym, Saturday night, beginning at 6 oclock. The con. 
$est9 will be. open to everyone, whether eligible for sports .or not. 
I There w II be two bouta in almost every weight except heavy. . tt 
mises to be an affair of unusual excitement, and you wont have to 
ir a tux to feel properI recall the craze of two year6 ago.
THE INTRAMURAL COURTS I SUGGEST that the fans devote 
i attention to the Theta XlsIf .you haven't spotted them already; 
Tic Delta are showing class also, and I suppose they will show more 
----powerful squadsbut meanwhile,
*ND ANOTHER SUGGESTIONWATCH the ofllclatihg at the intraiura1-games, I was especially griped last week at the answer given 
i one of the.referees when he was questioned regarding his refusal 
> call timeout when the ball had to be chased Into another court. 
Is answer waa: Of course I wont call time out when the player
jeant hand It to rnp. In other words, he waa discriminating against 
ine team because a member of the other team had neglected to ,de*
1 the bail directly to,the referee upon being called outand sec; during a tight game ^re very valuable. The attitude was rather 
il, I would say. - '
pERES WHAT I SHOULD HAVE BEHINDMY VOTE If I were voting 
;ainsl football among high school youngsters: according to a N. Y. 
il'. report, deaths from football during 1934 totaled 23.  Thirteen of 
taesa were in the high school class, and the remaining deaths were 
distributed pretty evenly between sandlot, college, and business firm 
ifootball.
Pitt Takes Skibos, 51-12 
Plebes Lose, 34-25
Women's Athletics
. by-----  1
MARGIE GREEN
| Another freshman steps to the I this week, or to be mor acluate, steps a little farther, front.
hockey, her class elected senate, representative a few nonths ago', and now they have recently chosen her as capin of tbeiv basketball team, light, you've guessed correctly; little lady is none other than Vilsack, and can she play
loslilon, come to think of It. Counts, Sis, and beware of those urc-shot sophomores! The other lasses have'not made up their lintls, as yet, concerning theirV ....
captain, but will probuline through this week with decisions.
In the matches shot last week for he Telegraphic Meet. Mary WetFrederick also shot 100, ^vblle Mar.. biSomeiius and Peg Hainan, ante close behind with 99s, and ilda Waina and 'Lib Lowrey shot 'icaslcy -pwbu  Reports trom other alleges will determine - Techs Landing in ihe intercollegiate eagne. Tue best of luck to you; h' noble rirterajuet lfeeiJ .up to iur record thus far, and youre 
mh to come out on top.The W. A. A. Board has been try* fi to decide which should prove a Eger successthe' . usual s.wim'i>ng party, or a tea danco in the fay ot something different. Of :ourse, to be perfectly frank, ouv
money.1 At any event, esc of you Scotchmen can-rest cd that you will get your y'a worth if you should h'vd
Baskets Frequent 
In League Openers
The flrst week of action in the 
intramural basketball battles saw 
many startling results. Foremost 
among these was the rising to the 
heights' of  one of the dormitory quintets, namely McGill Hall, whose defeat of Beta Theta Pi, last year's American League champions, broughtforth, a new threat to be reckoned with. Delta Tau Delta, prowned intramural champs last season, continued their winning ways by defeating Kappa Delta Rho and Phi Sigma Kappa by overwhelming scores. Another league champion of last year, Theta Xi, was likewise successful in their first'week of play, swamping the Phi Kappa fraternity and Scobel Hall In one-sided games. Scoring is very-frequent in most of the games so far, a vivid example of which was the contest between Sigma Kru and the Junior Chem. & Mech., in whichthe engineers defeated  the fraternity lads to the very musical tune of 57-6....The, res.ul.ls of last weeks games are s follows: Beta i.'TTeta Pi, 161 Boss Hall, 13; Delta Upsilon, 16; Aplha phiDelta, IB: Theta Xi, 30; Phi Kappa, .10:.JDeltfi. Tau Delta. 50; Kappa Delta Rho, 9; Mc'Gilf Hall, 15; Beta Theta Pi, 12; Alpha Tau Omega, .27; Tau Delta.,Phi, 9; Sigma N. 6; Junior Chem) '& Mech., 57; Sigma Phi Epsilon won from the Phi Psi Club on  forfeit; KappaSigma ;dfoated - Alpha _sig: ma Phi; Bela.Sigma Rho defeated Pi Kappa Alpha; Delta Tau Delta defeated Phi Sigma Kappa; Theta Xi' defeated Scobel Hall..
Only 26 per <E the ii who
apply to the student date bureau the. University of Toronto have a preference for blondes.
descend to come to the affair, providing you dont expect a Paul Pendarvis for your twenty-five
STUDENT NIGHTS I f
every Wednesday and Friday \
Carnegie Snatches Close 
Game From GenevaSquad
Panthers Beat 
Plaid Tankers
Captain Ted Rigg and 
Patt High Scorers. 
For Clansmen
LEAD SHIFTS SIDES 
AFTEK FIRST HALF
The Pitt swimming squad came 
through once more last Saturday 
Slight Ho beat ..the Carnegie tank 
team, 56-12, for the tenth straight 
time. The meet was held at the 
Metropolitan Club pool, formerly 
the Keystone Athletic Club and, 
though the pool was th same kind 
,* Is here at Carnegie, tbe Tartans found it'rather slow. 'Most of the events -were rather closely contested though the timers were generally slow. The Plaid managed to lake one flrst, no seconds and all the thirds la. the meet. Captain Vonder Lancken won the 220-yard breaststroke to score the Tartans only flve pointer.The Tartan freestyle squad was In rather poor shape and the boys from across the way broke through to register'one, two in every event but the breaststroke. Leavitt put
.hundred in 57 seconds. to win lu hand with Ruhe second and Leavitt third in another fast finish. - Jack Denny, Pitts distance 220 in 2:31.2 with' Lewis taking
another first in the 150 back stroke with Jones taking second i Holiday tired towards the last. The
I and third respectively. . Denny scored again in the.440, winning is 5:51, and followed by Lewis and Dennison -spread out well behind him. Meyers and Goyer of Pi " nexed the fancy -diving with Heat* ley of the Plaid taking the third place here. Pitt also won the 400- yard relay in 4:01.1 with Tech finishing fast. The Tartan squad of Leavitt, Deredyn, Holiday, and Vonder Lancken -covered the distance in 4:02 which is the fastest that any Carnegie teamhas done the race.'The Carnegie Plebes fell before the onslaught of the Pantli lings to the score of 34-2S.
One eminent professor at tbe University of Washineto slowly fraying nerve ends o .habit that co-eds in his clc of continually powdering and rouging during his Iecf he got into a i student, pull< shaving mug and slowly proceeded to lather up .before the < science stricken audience.
featuring Will Ryshanek \
j and-kisScheolsy Danc& -Band_$.
Ifrom Ten until Two \
; ; : with. Breakfast at Midnight f ^
Special Rates to Student Parties j
For information, telephone MA flower 6400 
 ? 
FORMAL DANCE every SATURDAY NIGHT j 
j DOLLAR, per person < |
d-t
AiicL.an.
T
he fawe op Michigan in
SCHOLARSHIP AND SPORTS IS 
MATCHED BY MICHIGAN'S EX
ACTING REQUIREMENTS IN MAT* 
TERS OF ATTIRETHERE THE_ 
INVISIBLE SEAMUNE CLOSURE," 
KOVER-ZIP, IS PREFERRED ' FOR 
ALL TYPES OF APPAREL:
,4 rbor tailor?, like .outstand
ing college teilors nation-wide 
who are arbiters of style, endorse 
. Kover-Zip as the onJy-slide fas
tener fit for fine custom clothes.
There is a marked preference 
among "best-dressed college 
seniors for Kover-Zip, it is first 
choice for everything from eve
ning clothes to slacks.
DON ROGERS
Kovetyj,
WALDE KOH-I-NOOR, INC.: LONG loiiND. CfTY^NEV .YORK ' -
_!
Fre6hmen Have No Trouble 
e^g.owning Covnaiiter 
Plebe Aggregation
"By Ed. Mulligan 
Carnegie managed to ,take one 
of the nip and tuck battles'' that 
she has been playing of late whe 
she downed Geneva, 34-2-9 . Startiut as usual, the Tartans p^led 
big lead early e^ th gaine, 
only to lose it as the time wore 
i. During the first half ,the. score 
as all for the Skibos/ and tbe 
unt at the half was 1&-13. '
Scots Nab Tiff-Off 
From there on the game, heme what spectators come expecting to see'at theCarngle floor this season: a fast-scoring, fast-moving contest, with the lead changing hands frequently. One to the advantage ofthe Tarwas the fact, that James and Fitzwllson both were - stretching bove the Geneva centers to conol the tip-off. With this help and the good eyes of Patt and Captain Ted Rigg, who kicked in 10 and 13 points respectively, Carnegie pulled the game out of the Are. Carnegie committed twelve louls and Geneva eight. Of these tho Sklbos dropped in four and the Covenanters counted seven times.
Shift Defense - 
Both of th teams shifted in >ne .to . man-to-man during the game. When Carnegie dropped back in the scoring, the. team changed from the zone dfense " tbe man-to-man and quickly-ran the points. This was evident in the closing minutes when Gene^ was leading by two points, r soon as Carnegie stopped her zoi system, Rigg dumped in two'buckets and Patt sent one through, the set for a count. These, with a freo throw by Rigg, ended th scoring and cinched the ball game for thi Institute.-Carnegie ployed one of the best games ot the year to take the Covenanters Tuesday,, and -from the spectators standpoint no moro could be desired.The freshman team, coached by Red Sllvermani set the. yi.sltlug frosh back quite decisively tc tun of 30-27.
Tartans Face 
W.&J., Hoyas
Announce Changes Made 
, In Skibo Schedule
The  Tartan basketball squad seems to.have started on the road back once more. having put one over on . the GehevaN squad.. Of course, that Temple. game. - laei nJght "niis pretty tough on the ^oys but. the battleB in the oiling '..as formidable as the past
Ington and Jefferson lads showed .little to date, having played three games and lOBt the same amount. Decisive defeats by. such
teams ns Bethany, Juniata,: and Penn State indicates' some' weakand, utaless this Is repaired
I svictory.
Another game that may give the Sklbos a chance to advance their standing is tho Georgetown game, to be' played in Washington, D. C., this coming Saturday. This is.u return game, the Tartans having started off the league season by defeating the Hoyas on the Carnegie floor. Both teams stand, nt the bottom and this gamthe other the ____wanted upward push. With .all the floor,, and everything
Another announcement of intorest to.the Carnegie floor'fans is a slight change in schedule. .Buck* nell University recently dropped out <bf ' the Eastern Intercollegiate Basketball' Conference and the two games with the Sklbos have-been cancelled. MaxHannum announces, however, that the opening left in
has been shifted to January
Womens Rifle Team 
Makes Proud Record
A new record In prone shooting 
was set by tho womens ville team 
last weok when the Misses Wetlach, 
Shultz, Lehr, Frederick and Stulen 
hit 500 out of a possible 500. It was 
the flrst time such a score line 
ever been shot on the. Tartan gallery. Totals for the flve highest the Meri-s Varsity . in prone, kneeling, and standing were: Broad-head,' 282; Melllnger, 281; Cullen. 273; Dervaes. 271; and Albiino, 268. ..The Mens Varsity is devoting most of Its practice to-improv* Jng'tbe kneeling and standing.positions.- The Carnegie rl lie team will mee.t Cornell, Worcester Polytech, nnd Stanford this'-week. The com* petition will be telegraphic.
The Woodlawn
!P tlir 111 a. G y 5200 Forbes Street
SPECIAL
Foiu-iyear Collegiate Dinvy,...................26c
47c. Evei'shturp. Pencil..........................39c
; .Correspondence Portfolio ..............:.....29c
Pipe, Union Leader Tol)neco, and Poucli... 98c
Complete lane of Valentine Candy and Cards
Let us deliver your Valentine.

---------------------------------------------------

WM
THE GARNEGl TARTAM'y;'ElIESDkYv-ANARI-.-22:.1935
THE 
CARNEGI E 
PLAID
P*n aiited b; Nlght S kraeglc Insti tat of
T titt*:EdlU5rla1 Board.ot Motoarily-c loard ofthe Dar 
G. W. VESSELS H. INGHAM .B. F. WHITE  WILLIAM E. HAKE
The Saar Votes
tbe residents of the Saar, the world wonders with the mountaineers of a current comic atrip "whuts aU the furse about. However, a little direct thought on the subject results in the conclusion that tbe residents of the disputed area were offered a beads 1 win, tails you lose" proposition by tbe League ot Nations. Admittedly, as a composite picture, the district with its vast natural resources 1b mightily important politically and economically. and an almost indispensable supply of war material to both France and Germany, agaiuat the day when their militarists feel inclined for a romp.The Individuals making up the population of the district, needless to aey, do not completely concur in their plan's and views with either ot them close neighbors. Already, even before ownership is a patent fact the Nazis arerumored to have begun reprisals against those who 
were bold and ^honest enough to criticise their actions when under the protection ojt the League. A great' exodus has begun.- A com. ptete change In currency and. mouetary. standards will be forced on ihe  people. Divorcement from France, the chief consumer In recent' years of the raw materials of the. district, will cause hardship Among operator.and laborer alike. . ' Perhaps, In'belng faced.wlth the necessity of choosing bet
Idle Thoughts 
of an :
Idle Night 
".Student -
Industries To 
Dance Jan. 26
WillClicks , Orchestra 
Will Fjirmsb Music
NOVEL DECORATIONS
Youre tellioe me
That the last days are here. Oh yeah! for some of us it Is all too true and' I am woaderlng what I shall do with my spare time after I am out. What's In my mind well those pesky examinations of courfee. These are as it were judgment dayswith the judge avd jury all set against usor it would
Years First Dance Expected 
To Draw Record Crowd
i that /\t of lthis question needless to say it would be thumbs downfor after all what good are exams except to get one all wrought up and excited. Some day th/> utopia will bo reached and there wont be any exams to fuss about.
if trying to get by ha; pliehed much. The tricks I havi ilnd are taking notes, trying ti keep  in step with the lecturi ourses, missing as few assign nents as possible, and in-a genera /ay racing afon at a'great paci etlng myself on the way back
College of Industries will bold :e in Thistle 'Hall on Saturday ilng, January 26. Tbla is the first 'event of this nature that has been sponsored by the IndusUIals the present' school
That there is a cloud with a ell>r lining on the horizon for isnt there a dance this Saturday eve-' ing. Why, of course, the Industrles;or should  I soy the department of Engineering where the shop'courses are givenus mechanlcB-^you knowsince I understand all of thi9 section has absorbed by. the engineersSo
tlon. Under tbe outward guise of 'assured liberty, tbey were faced with the rather dubious honor of deciding by a - majority vote ; whether tbey would be an outpost of Germany against France, or vice versa,' in the: days which it is hoped
We are assured that the outcome  of the election meant peace, by relieving, the tension existing over 'claims of ownership of the district, -jt Is hoped that the tension has not .merely been absorbed by the net '.masters of the Saar to  provide. . much needed impetus; to their ' tionaUstlc plans.
Big Stel
: It is conservative to say that
; nouncement of the United States : Steel Corporation that the six day 'week'was to be adopted once more. 'Representing an increase in sala: jles and .wages, the lengthening of.  he working ' week adequately iJresaes the faith of Big Steel1 the firmly grounded upswing j Jri progress. As usual, the smaller . producers, heartened by this ext ' pie, are' following suit.C H ,A large number of the night e dents of Carnegie are directly 'indirectly dependent upon the Corporation and its : subsidiaries . for . tbeir 'earned Income. All of them . lave commented favorably upon the fair and honest effort made by :  tbe.corporation to provide employment for the maximum number of employees throughout the depreeNIGHT LIGHTS
The bashful
speaker while the Blochlnger] twins. Nell and Eddie, are fast de-j ..veloping into expert plng-pongeva.. - Nowlt oaiy Bill eEiedUfetcr -couM loo9e that Inferiority complex.. .... They eay that Mrs. Schultz (Jean - ScaiiTbo): " tlie unofficial  siscretary-ot the N. S. C.. studied German r ehe could talli to her husband . . --Ha Matt Crawford finally given tip,hfa campaien for phone booliiia'V Machinery Hail, or did lie man. the girl ... A. Lalli waa glimpsed
all of which don'tt for much
attendance is anticipated.The decoration committee promised that Its work will beIth dispatch. Tbey say that the general, motif will carry tbe atmosphere of tbe College ot Industries.The music will be furnished by Will Click and his orchestra. We that this organization 
needs little introduction to the stuof Carnegie. It' will be remembered that this group furnished the .music for. the recent .Night Student Council dance. Judging
by those present, it is felt that the musical portion of the program can not be other than suc
cessful. .This dance is sponsored by the
members of that college. Admission will be granted on showing an IndiiBtrieB registration card.Among the guests who have been invited to attend' the affair are, Messrs.. John . Blackhatl, William Dosey, J. M. Raubenstraw, CharleB
Workers Asked to 
Report Jan. 26 th
tris, as wll,as all students who'var'e . Interested in earning points-toward -an Inslg-. nfa Award, are. requested to meet in'Thistle Hall, on Saturday, January 26, at 1:30 p. m. The purpose for this meeting Is. to decorate Thls__ due cause. By this timeyou should Save at least half of the points necessary. If you haven't,- get busy. .
Len Smith will start talking about his tropical swordfish (1% inches long) on the allghtest pr<
he couldn't define - the difference between a banker and a bandit.
well fold up their tents/ Their varied theories of values in tics do not seem to apply to dent politics. At the University of Missouri student election, 200 i votes were cast than thex students. Like occurences ported.at Ohio State and Mlchlga
Council Dance 
Well Attended
Clicks - Orchestra Wins 
Fancy of Students
On Saturday . evening, January 12, Thistle Hall presented a scene of gayety and charm. The Hall was decked, in gala array with metallic drapes to which the cokrs reflected from the brilliant globe suspended from the celling gave added beauty. Various coloi spot  lights were focussed on i slowly.- revolving globe
under which the hall took added charm. . The occasion for this spendor was the Post-Holiday Dance .sponsored by the Night Student Council. \ The music for this function hy Will Click and hi This was the initial of this group on the Night Campus . but' from all indications It will not be the last.The Social Committee is to 1 congratulated for the .excelled of this affair. Their hard work and earnest effort in perfecting and executing the plans were the majoi
Industries Secretary Is Also 
Business ^aj\q^pryf
Well Know Student Has. 
Talcen Active Par in ,- 
 IPoric of Council-
^ ' staft Jtkes Agr|at' pleosrc thfs iveek in prsenting'dmund W. Drensen. Mr. Prensen has been on the campus of tbe Carnegie Instltute of Technology or three years. He enrolled in 1931. He is at preedustriea. Mr. Dreosen ber of the Night. Sludent Council by virtue of being elected to the
fact that he is a thorough student, be still finds time to take an enthusiastic part in night school acirnity. Mr. Drepsen cently appointed business manaof tbe 1935 Thistle, which is ihe section of the annual yearbook
success in bis present t
Didja Notice
floor on dnee night?THAT the . College on Industries is going to hold a dance. Sissies!THAT the. treasurer of. the N. S. C. was conspicuously absent from the Council dance? Lock, the safe, Herman. ' ,THAT the ex-president of Art9 spent the Christmas
THAT that so and so the Ro.v-'
twineTHAT a certain parly enter* talned himself by pulling the decorations down ' before the dance waa over. Ju6t% for '.that he wont get any points.THAT will Click sure did.THAT the boys ever irr Arts are cooking up another dance. It la estimated that If all of the. eampua dancers were stood, on ' top of each other, "they would fail over. ' THAT a. certain member of the staff who yearns
Sort.of yearning for the ompany oF his own Ilk.THAT one of .our young hopeof health, but la troubled. Jf this young man will drop into my office t shall
E. W. DRENSEN
Reginald Crashes Gate 
At Night Council Dance
Resentment of Writer 
Aroused by Suspicions
Thiels phU Space agateI bavo lrpen .accuse,d. ;> oi ./attempting to write In opposition'tothe -Roving Reporter, and I weu'd ike to say .th'at nothing could be mre* Insulting. I Rrijle myself in that I baro 
Edmethjng;'to Y^t^'abp&U'wl^I^Tth.e Itovfng Reporter . . well you' see for yourself, rj-notice that... Tdl/dn^s:; are. being /pl^pnfei j must oil up my corinectidns'and 'see if I can shake a log without-spending the usual price. By the way, uow is the time for all good men to come to the aid of tbe home-team, since tbe big brawn and beef men from industries are being paged for preparation work.
Enginee rs Society 
Plans Job Survey
whether employed or unemployed, should send tbair names and addresses to tbe society headquarters West Thirty-ninth street, New
(BONG!)
Two moons rose over the city. 
When there should have been but
all those responding, in an effort to determine factors contributing to employment and compensation andtbe relation 'of engineering to other ofessions. A final analyses of the situation will be made by. the A phenomena says you. Quite. United States Bureau of Labor 
Statistics and will bo published as a Federal document.The engineering students at Carhut the cause of this phenoi 
what you will be interested is. It 
was this way. The other P. M. I 
made a little bet wiin myself, 10c to 
win and a Dickie to place, that ! could get into the N. S. C. dance without a complimentary ticket. Of course I won the bet and my pride did, quite naturally swell, that is why two moone i -.-..th city, profession,
uegle are urged to cooperate
possibility of securing employment r advancement in the civil, englleering line or rnay show the adisabillt of changing to some other
The - Commodore
NEXT TO STANLEY THEATER
Al Buhl
arid His Orchestra 
Every Saturday 

No Cover Charge
; Metallurgical Board 
Meetsr Here Feb. 8
gistd fom the .industry will dis* 
uss the finding o the Carnegie In* 
v;estlgatorfl. ,IncIded in th grupi 
erre . Bajfh/.-ihetallurgist, S.- .Steel ,orpor't}on; ; W. P. Sykes metaUurglcal^.ijgfneer, Cleveland Wir. W.rkfl;f'tr::'J-..B. Austin, resarchilboratr^.J'i S. Steel CorRoratl<fe' LppB^'rJordan, U. Sv Bureauor Sta!ndrds; j.- D. Gld> chief metallurgist, Weirton Steel Company; Dr. A. B. Klnel, chief metallurgist, Union' Carbide and
D. King, open-hearth committee, . S. Steel Corporation.An informal dinner at the University Club will conclude the meeting. .The speaker for ithis
occasion will be J. Steele Gow di! rector of the Falk Foundation will spaKJo* Research in iS Economic Field.
. The laboratories o/ Csraegie 
tie7 peiiipr tflspectlb'n to viaii^S on SaWda morningH
STUDENTSWANTEDFive hundred Typewriters, all makes, Portables and Standards, sold, rented repaired. $3.00 one month, $10.00 five months.
American WritingMachine Company801 LIBERTY AVENUE PITTSBURGH ATIantlc 6488 Bee our School representative DICK HAMMOND
SECHERS
' 1714 Murriiy Avenue
the place to 
eat
because...
S Good Food 
Conveniently 
Located
Atmosphere 
Music Every Evening
Art Schamberg, 
Class 21, Piino 
BheaSinging
The Students 
Rendezvous
... no extra.charge
PeoplesPittsburgh 
Trust Co.
Oakland Branch
Forbes and Meyran
"TEE OAKLAND 
BANK
IN THE 
CENTER OF 
COLLEGE 
ACTIVITY 
I*9
MEMBER FEDERAL 
RESERVE SYSTEM
Tie/bre dvsihg this pluiMut evetihtg... 
ivbicb bas ht eu held hi the Interests f>f 
truth ami hrtvhy... may I say...
Long bpeecht-s have been made 
about diis and that, but when it
lOII'L"! in .1 umili ieRaiyuLELa un
iay it all in just a few words ...
TASTE BETTER
A^.ykl
