* C A R N E G I E
N
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
VOLUME 82  NUMBER 22 WEDNESDAY, MARCH 25, 1964
Spring Carnival Plans To Be 
jy Bigger And Better Than Ever
Notice: Moved to New Location. Bigger and Better Than 
Ever . . . Expanding our facilities, in order to serve you, the 
students of Carnegie Tech, better.
With this bit of fanfare, the Spring Carnival Committee 
of 1964 formally announces that the participants and other
-------------------------------------------------------?people interested in Great Shakes
will not have to run all overTech Changes 
Liberal Arts 
Requirements
A change has been made in the 
Humanities and Social Science 
program for Engineering & Sci
ence and Margaret Morrison stu
dents in order to provide "A high
er education in liberal arts. Fun
damentally, the change involves a 
revision of required subjects for 
freshmen and sophomores, and 
the introduction of a depth ser
ies and distribution subject5 for 
E & S juniors and seniors.
The present MMCC and E & S 
freshmen will continue in this re
vised program. Most of these stu
dents have completed the shorten
ed one-semester requirement of 
English Composition, are complet
ing the requirement of Western 
Civilization, and are taking the 
one required semester of Introduc
tion to Literature. Next year's en
tering freshmen wiil take the same 
required courses. Some fraction of 
the students, however, will be re 
quired to take two semesters of 
I English Composition to raise them 
to the required level of compet
ence.
Under the revised program, 
there will be one semester courses 
in psychology and economics, re
quired by all sophomores. The 
previous economics requirement 
v/as two semesters.
As in the old program, ten full 
courses in liberal arts will be re
quired by all E & S students. But 
in order to give the E & S students 
the best liberal arts education, a 
program of a three semester 
depth sequence and a one 
semester distribution subject 
(continued on page 2)
j All May Have 
>New Catalogue
| The Catalogue Committee, j which makes recommendations 
j and supervises the publication of 
j university catalogues, has changed 
jj the policy of distribution of cata| logue supplements for the coming 
j year. These supplements provide 
j information on the curriculum of I each department and major field, 
j Until this time, the policy had 
v^been to distribute no individual 
1 copies to students. Supplements 
I were made available to students 
| through the various administrative 
i offices, the library, dorm counI selors and fraternity officers.
| Beginning next September, beI cause of student and faculty reI quest, each student will be able 
I to secure a copy for his own peri sonal use.
campus this year. Instead of hav
ing to go to plank jousting be
hind Morewood, buggy races in 
Schenley, egg toss on the Cut, 
and the Midway on the parking 
lot, activity will be confined to 
two places. Buggy races will still 
be held in Schenley Park, but 
the Midway, along with all the 
other events, has been moved 
to the field behind Morewood 
Gardens.
The Carnival Committee has 
decided to entertain approximate
ly 150 orphans from the Pitts
burgh area. These children will 
use the facilities of the Midway 
at hours when business would 
otherwise be slow, and the fra
ternities and sororities have vol
unteered to take the loss for all 
the games and rides which the 
orphans use. The responsibility 
for the childrens transportation 
and safety will be handled by the 
Kiwanis Club of Pittsburgh.
A ferris wheel, and possibly 
other rides, will be added to this 
years Carnival. The owners of 
the ferris wheel will run their 
operation separate from the Car
nival Committee, but the Com
mittee has agreed to pay for 
electric power.
Plank jousting will again be 
held behind Morewood, in the 
mudhole. This time the event will 
be run, hopefully, on a more com
petitive level  that is, some of 
the rowdiness will be excluded, 
but none of the good, clean (?) 
fun. Anyone interested in enter
ing a five-man team please con
tact Blaine Cliver ' (682-9053).
Announcement of enter
tainment for Friday and Satur
day nights will be in coming is
sues of the Tartan. Records of 
the groups will be installed in 
the Skibo snack bar juke box. *
Congress Holds 
Departmental 
Elections
All departmental representatives 
and commuter representatives will 
be elected on Tuesday, April 14, to 
Student Congress. Anyone who is 
interested in the responsibility of 
deciding campus policy has po
tential for membership in Student 
Congress. All full time, under
graduate day students in good 
academic standing are eligible.
Important dates for the forth
coming elections are:
April 8, Wednesday. Commutef 
petitions and application for 
candidates become available 
from Dr. Strides office.
April 17, Friday. Deadline for 
filing applications.
April 21, Tuesday. Elections at 
(continued on page 2)
Slack Presents 
Dark Comedies 
Of Shakespeare
Dr. Robert C. Slack will lecture 
on The Dark Comedies of Wil
liam Shakespeare on April 7, 11:30 
a.m. in the Fine Arts Theater.
The dark comedies include All's 
Well That Ends Well, Measure for 
Measure, and Troileus and Cressida. The plays were written in 
the same period as Hamlett Othel
lo, and King Lear, immediately 
after the death of Shakespeares 
young son, Hamlet, and were in
fluenced by the tragic mood of the 
latter plays. However, because the 
plays do not end tragically, they 
are considered comedies.
Dr. Slack will place emphasis 
on Troileus and Cressida, which 
was the feature play last year in 
Stratford, Ontario.
Dr. Slack is Head of the De
partment of Humanities in Mar
garet Morrison and Associate Pro
fessor of English and Humanities. 
As the Director of the Curriculum 
Study Center, he helped ,to de
velop the' Pittsburgh area Ad
vanced Placement English. Pro
gram, and served as a consultant 
in this program from 1959 to 1962.
How Do You 
Spend 40* ? 
Read Patterns
The ways of spending forty cents 
indeed are very many:
An octal group of Snickers bars 
accounts for every penny;
And forty one-cent pretzels will 
as neatly do the trick;
As will a grilled cheese sandwich 
with a crunchy pickle stick.
A box or two (on sale) you get 
of Scottie wet strength tissue 
But NONE of these can match 
the coming Patterns April issue. 
What is this Patterns? You may 
ask  and Well  whove never 
bought it,
A dress design, a Chinese food  
perhaps that's what youve 
thought it?
Ah, no, my poor misguided friends, 
allow me to constru:
Techs Patterns* pages printed lie 
Tech-witty, artful, pensive;
A noble use of printer's ink, and 
oh, so inexpensive!
Oh, yeah, you say, thats great." 
But still, youd rather have a 
sandwich.
Nourish your stomach, not your 
school, a motto with one grand 
hitch:
For, years from now youll look 
on Tech in quite a different way 
Youll wish to see old friends 
again, and hear what they may 
say.
Youll rack your brain and close 
your eyes but still will not re
member,
Youll wish so hard you'd listened 
(continued on page 5)
Howard K. Smith of ABC 
To Speak on Challenges
Howard K. Smith, distinguished news commentator and 
author who is now heard regularly on the American Broad
casting Company network, will speak here at Carnegie Tech. 
He will deliver two. lectures on Changing Challenges for 
America, as part of the Maurice Falk lecture series.
The first of Mr. Smith's talks, 
The Unique But Unused Powers 
of Americans To Meet The Chal
lenge, will be given on Thursday, 
April 9 at 8 p.m. Both are open 
to the public and are being held 
in the ballroom of Skibo.
Since joining ABC News in De
cember, 1961, Howard K. Smith 
became the only working newsman 
ever to win the Paul White 
Award, won the DuPont Award 
for the second time, and was 
nominated for an Emmy for 
Howard K. Smith: News and 
Comment, his ABC-TV program 
that ran for 17 months.
Mr. Smith, along with his other 
duties as an ABC News Com
mentator, interviews headlinemaking guests each Sunday on 
ABC News Issues and. Answers0 
radio and television program.
Before joining ABC News, Mr. 
Smith was at CBS for 20 years 
and covered many of the major 
stories of two decades. He joined 
CBS News in 1941 and covered 
Nazi Germany, from which he was. 
later expelled for his denunciation 
of Hitlerism. In 1946 he covered 
the Nuremberg war-crime trials
After more than 11 years as 
chief European correspondent, Mr. 
Smith returned to the United 
States to take over assignments as 
moderator, commentator or report
er on most of the major CBS 
News efforts, including CBS Re
ports, Face the Nation, Eye
witness to history and The 
Great Challenge.
In 1961, Mr. Smith was pre
sented with an Emmy Award for 
(continued on page 2)
Howard K. Smith
Cwens To Hold 
Selection Tea
Membership selection for Eta 
Cwens will begin on April 5. On 
this day all eligible freshman 
women, with a 2.75 factor or 
above, have been invited to an 
afternoon tea in_ Skibos High
lander Room. Approximately 20 
to 25 of those eligible, or' 10% of 
the freshman women, will later be 
chosen as the 1964-65 Cwens. 
These outstanding girls will have 
shown promise of leadership and 
true college spirit. The new 
Cwens will then be honored at a 
dinner party in May by the re
tiring members of the organiza
tion. These members are Carol 
Kurtz, President; Martha Hodg
son, Vice-president; Lorna Hersh
berger, Secretary; Virginia Salko, 
Treasurer; Linda Fain, Sylvia 
Floyd, Patricia Gardner, Susan 
Hartmann, Joan Jacques, Lynne 
Jenkins, Rosalie Johnson, Betty 
Kuhn, Barbara Lebeau,. -Judith 
Litman, Joanne Rose. Yvonne 
Simon, Sue Sterhardt, Betsy 
White, Judy Windt, and Susan 
Witt. The advisors are Mrs. Edith 
Skinner (Drama Department) and 
Miss Rae Springle (History De
partment).
The 1963-64 Cwens actively par
ticipated in Orientation Week and 
sold the Mum corsages for Fall 
Festival. Every Monday night 
during the year, Cwens Products 
have been sold in the dorm. The 
(continued from 3)
Have Talent? 
Join Jamboree
The lusty month of May will 
start off this year with perhaps 
the,most spectacular and spring
iest Spring Carnival. With it, a 
new Carnival event will be in
itiated  Talent Jamboree.
Whats a jamboree? A noisy 
carousal or merrymaking (slang). 
On Saturday, May 2, the Spring 
Carnival Committee will * an
nounce a talent carousal guaran
teed to recognize the unheard, un
known individual and group talents on campus.
The event is already shaping up 
to be quite a show but there is 
always room for more. And more 
merriment! Aspiring aspirants 
should drop a card to the Chair
man of Talent Jamboree, Box 608, 
Campus Mail. Name, address, and 
a brief description of the talent 
should be included. Audition 
times and places will be an
nounced personally to the entrants.
Closing date for applications ia 
April 11.

---------------------------------------------------

fat* 2  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, March 25, 1964
Tech Changes 
Requirements
(continued from page 1) 
has been planned, beginning for 
1965 juniors. This program re
vises the scattered 'approach to 
liberal arts. Students will have a 
choice of concentrating in one of 
the following fields: economics, 
English, history or psychology. 
They will also be required to chose 
a distribution subject from the in
troductory subjects in the depth 
sequences just mentioned, or from 
a list of such other single offer
ings as: anthropology, fine arts, 
foreign literature, government, 
philosophy and special interdis
ciplinary seminars. Thus, E & S 
students will be given the op
portunity to minor in the liberal 
arts.
These changes in the liberal arts 
requirements were suggested by a 
campus-wide faculty committee 
apointed by Dean Coleman to take 
a complete review of the Humanities and Social Science program.
The Kappa Kappa Gamma
pledges were the guests  of Beta 
Theta Pi Thursday evening for 
dinner. BTP invited the KKGs 
for a second place mixer Friday 
evening..They celebrated the two second place trophies they receiv
ed in the Greek Sirig competition.
Congress Holds 
Elections
(continued from page 1) 
12:30 in the respective depart
ment^-, Commuter petitions due. 
Congress fills two basic roles on campus. As a coordinator and 
organizer, it is responsible for 
Freshman Orientation, Homecom
ing, Spring Carnival, and many 
other activities. As a decision 
making body, it is responsible for 
the other organizations on campus, 
and in many instances, for school policy.
H. K. Smith 
To Speak
(continued from page 1) 
writing CBS Reports: The Pop
ulation Explosion, in which he 
also served as narrator. The Over
seas Press Club cited him in 1963 
for Best Interpretation of For
eign Affairs, Television.
He is the author of two books 
"Last Train from Berlin, pub
lished in 1942, and The State of 
Europe, published in 1949.
Mr. Smith was born in Ferriday, La., on May 12, 1914, and 
was graduated from Tulane University in New Orleans in 1936, 
He then went to Germany to study 
briefly at Heidelberg University, 
beginning what was later to be
come an intensive stud}' of Nazism 
Since 1955, he has held five honorary degrees.
In 1939, Mr. Smith left Oxford, 
where he studied under a Rhodes 
Scholarship, to work for the 
United Press in London.
The Delphic Oracle
The Delta Gammas would like to announce its new officers for 
the 1964-1965: President, SueSeibert;' First Vice President. 
Sara Cromley; Second Vice Pres
ident, Claire R u g e; Treasurer, 
Jackie Owen; Recording Secre
tary, Nar. cy Cameron; Corre
sponding Secretary, Sue Van 
Gorder.
ter, Henry Werronen; Sergeantat-Arms, Sam Cupps.
On Saturday afternoon, March 
21, the Si?ma Kappas and Kappa 
Sigmas held an Easter party for 
the children of faculty at the KS 
house.
On Friday, March 26, Sigma 
Kappa attended its traditional 
Song and Paddle night before 
initiation. The entire pledge class 
helped serve refreshments, sing 
songs, and present a skit in the 
unconvential attire of cocktail 
dresses. The new initiate, Carol 
Aldrich, read a poem and pre
sented her paddle to her Big 
Sister. The formal Initiation was 
on Saturady afternoon. Carol is 
a sophomore IM and has a week
ly program on WRCT.
The Delta Alpha Chapter of 
Kappa. Sigma has announced the 
election of its officers for 1964.
The new officers are: grand 
master, Jack R. Scholl; grand 
procurator, Peter Rzasnicki; grand 
master of ceremonies, Richard G. 
Shoup; grand scribe, Kenneth R. 
Graham; grand treasurer, Charles 
T. Walker; social chairman, Orrin 
Mahoney; and house manager, 
John B. Talpas.
Delta Beta Chapter of Delta 
Tau Delta is pleased to announce 
the election of the following of
ficers: President, Ronald Konnick; Vice President, Christopher 
Knapp; Treasurer, Robert Boeckman; Corresponding Secre
tary, Frederick Pond; Recording 
Secretary, Darryl Degelman; 
House Manager, James Brown; 
Guide, William Hovis; Sergeantat-Arms, Eugene Gomolka; Asst, 
Treasurer, Joseph Irens.
The Brothers of Gamma Iota 
Chapters of Beta Theta Pi are 
proud to announce the following 
officers elected for the 1964-65 
school year: President, William 
Austin; Vice President, Steven 
Kornblatt; Comtroller, Jack Hershey; House Manager, David 
Francis; Social Chm., Gus Sauvkus; Steward, Curtis Chandler; 
Recorder, Keith Pierce; Financial 
Sec., Dale Johnson; Alumni Sec., 
Joseph Van Ryzin; Ass. Steward, 
Phillip Vormelker; Archivist, 
William Chappelle; Pledge MasWALLYS
Campus-Favored 
MEN 
HUSH-PUPP1ES LOAFERSWELLINGTON BOOTS 
FLORSHEIM
U. S. KEDS
3612 Forbes Ave. (Across from Strand Theater)
WOMEN
HUSH-PUPPIESLOAFERSFLATSDRESS SHOES
I
STUDENT SUMMER JOBS 
IN GERMANY
Through .the .LUFTHANSA .GERMAN .AIRLINES 
Student Employment Program, it s now possible to 
obtain employment in Germany for this Summer. Those 
interested will have an excellent opportunity to further 
their German language studies. For further information 
contact Tech Travel Office  AH 252.
On March 18 Kappa Alpha 
Theta held a discussion on the 
Art of Loving by Erich Fromn.
The Kappa Alpha Thet actives 
of Carnegie Tech and . Pitt chap
ters were recently entertained by 
the alumnae at a party in Skibo. 
An informal discussion on special 
interests and activities of active 
and alum Thetas was enjoyed by 
all.
Kappa Alpha Theta pledge 
Becky Sriiirh will be quite busy 
in the weeks to come rehearsing 
for Scotch ?n Soda, in which she 
holds a leading role.
Thetas Nancy Sutherland and 
Marji Mathie were recently 
tapped for membership in Imicron Nu, the Home Economics 
Honorary Society.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon Fraternity 
is pleased to announce the elec
tion of the following officers for 
the Spring Semester, 1964:
Eminent Archon, Mark F. Mo
ran; Eminent Deputy Archon, 
David L. Tranquilla; Rush Chair
man, Harvey M. Gannon; Pledge 
Trainer, Marvin L. Cadwell; As
sistant Treasurer, D. William Provance; Assistant Steward, W. 
Thomas Has well; Assistant House 
Manager, Thomas E. OConnell; 
Intermural Manager, Harvey M. 
Gammon; Social Chairman, Rich
ard M. Stamile; Bar Manager, 
Donald L. Pitman; Eminent Re
corder, Robert D. Cooper.
Eminent Correspondent, Walter 
L. Kennedy; Eminent Warden, 
Edward L. Wiehe; Eminent Her
ald, Richard F. Angle; Eminent 
Chaplin, Martin D. Smith; Rep
resentative to Student Congress, 
Marvin L. Cadwell; Representa
tive to Executive Committee, Wil
liam H. McClure; Editor of News
letter, Richard M. Stamile; Emi
nent: Treasurer. Douglas J. Cranwell; House Manager, Gerald A. 
Jim; Steward, Norman G. Ziesse.
Dr. Ludwig Schaefer, assistant 
professor of history at Carnegie 
Tech, was guest dinner speaker 
on March 11 at PhiKappa Theta 
After dinner Dr. Shaefer gave 
an informal talk on the Black 
Muslim movement in the United States.
BULLETINBOARD
Book Sale
Between April 2 and 4, at the 
St. Nicholas "Church ip Oakland, 
the Bryn Mawr College Club of 
Western Pennsylvania is having a 
book sale. New, old, sorted, priced, 
there will be thousands of books 
from which to choose. Average 
prices will be about 25 cents.
The proceeds of the sale will be 
used toward sending an eligible 
girl from the Pittsburgh area to 
Bryn Mawr College. Hours for the 
sale are from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 
p.m.
CARN
IS
EMEHOSfllT
CTFVWX
NVOLUVOOME82
NOW SHOWING 
FRANK DEAN|S!HIS!1'M3EII
AIMITA URSULASKSiEiS*EMi I 
~4P08TB2S
OWMSSSCKON VICTOR BUONO I tuSQCHS oag| 
TEOOl SHfRlj-RO&Eftl WIWICH-ffiBERULORCH ETECHNICOLOR From WARNEff BAOS.
ALSO
Mirthful! Magca|if Musica!!
Attention:: CLUB OFFICERS
Write for FREE Catalog of CLUB RECORD FORMS that save time and 
work for Minutes, Dues, Membership 
Lists, Committee, Financial Reports; 
or send $1.50 for a year's supply 
CLUB RECORDS CO.P.O. Bex 93 College Pk, Slo., Dot 21, Midi.
SEEMILLERS 
LUNCHEONETTE & 
DELICATESSEN
Complete short order 
food service 
Snacks and fountain 
delights 
Both here and there 
Corner Forbes Ave. and Craig St.Open til 11:00 p.m. 662-9S94
Scotch *n Soda
The first meeting of all crews 
for Scotch n Soda will be on Wed
nesday, April 1, at 7:30 p.m. All 
those who signed up for a crew, 
as well as anyone else who is in
terested in working on Scotch n 
Soda, are invited to stop at the 
Skibo information desk at the 
above time.
Classified Ads
HOOTENANNY!Learn Folk Guitar
Fred Albitz  Featured at the Casbah and many other Pittsburgh spots  and in clubs and bistros as far west as Hollywood  is giving folk guitar lessons at The Peter Hughes School oi Music. Call: 731-1844.
The Largest Selection of 
Imported and Domestic 
Tobaccos  in the City
EGISG BOWL
3725 Forbes St. 
681-6045
Nationally 
Advertised Pipes
Gateway Recordings, Inc.
presents
LIVE RECORDING SESSION 
AND CONCERT
starring the outstanding
WALT HARPER QUINTET
Carnegie Lecture Hall, Sat., April 4,1964, 8:30 p.m.
Tickets  SI.'SS  $2.00 Nljhl of session. Price Includes coupon for irer 
concert recordingredeemable at at 1 National Record Marts. Tickets avaJlaoic 
at all National Record Marta, Lomakins, Hadden Hall, and at the University 
of Pittsburgh Book Store.
CRAFT AVE. THEATER
WISH YOU WERE HERE
All Tickets $2.00
THEATER UPSTAIRS 
KSLEK WAYNE RAUH
IN THE
AND FM  _ 
BB8RWDSB AR YYby Annum HM'ir U la MW
DIRECTED BY 
JAMES L. ROSENBERG, Tech Drama Faculty
Seats $1.50 Sat. $2.00 Tues.-Sat. 8:30 Sun. at 7:30
Tickets on Sale at Fitt Book Center 
Reservations 621-4445

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March ?5, 1K4  CARNEGIE TARTAN  rue S
Enter Hungry
by Leslie Buchman
EatPark
If you have been wishing for 
the good old days when you were 
in high school; when every week 
vou went steady with a different 
boy; when everyone got excited 
about football and basketball; and 
when you hardly ever had to 
crack a book, well, then, welcome 
to Eat n Park. Where else can 
you see 50 policemen in a 2x4 
parking lot, or charming sophisbrooding, the Foxes will be glad 
to see you, Heaven knows they 
dont need any more noise.
The Riverboat Room
In the Penn-Sheraton Hotel, the 
Riverboat Room is as exact a 
replica of a steamboat from the 
1800s as possible. The red velvet 
walls, elaborate chandeliers, plush 
chairs, and costumed waitresses 
contribute to an atmosphere per
fectly accented by a captains
ticated 6th grade girls waiting to table and captain (played by the 
, be picked up by hoods? It does I Maitre d) with whom one may
^ make a fabulous sociological or have dinner, if desired. A huge
psychological study for a paper! i wheel from a ship adorns one
Anyway, the food is adequate wall,
when you are just looking for an 
aller-the-movie snack. Hamburg
ers of all shapes and sizes, and of
course the specialty  a Big-Boy 
(where else would they think of 
putting tartar sauce on a ham
burger?) can be obtained with a
r minimum of waiting time. Pas
tries and ice cream dishes are also 
available for those with a sweet 
tooth. Of course, prices are very 
low so it. cant possibly hurt the 
pocketbook, but .youll probably 
need the money youve, saved for 
a bodyguard. Why not borrow one 
of the Tech security guards? I'm 
sure theyll be willing to moonlight a little.
i The Foxes
 One Door and several atmos
pheres from the Gazebo in Shadyside nestles the Foxes; although 
the two are owned by the same 
entrepreneur, they are at opposite 
ends of the social scale: The Foxes 
is much more vertical than hori
zontal; each booth seems to be on 
a different level with a wild and 
uncontrolled combo on a level about three feet above your head 
al the back. I wouldnt go there if: 
you are very much in love with 
your date; you want to eat (at 
all); you dont have a strong 
stomach, good lungs, and an ID card; you like any conversation, 
or if you dont like loud (not 
necessarily good) jazz. Someone 
said that if TGIF were intensified 
10 times, crammed into about 
the space it normally occupies, 
all the dances were about twice as 
good, and with Vi the light, that 
would be the general idea of the 
Foxes.
Strangely enough, the place has 
a wierd charm. It makes one feel 
all the world is one great brother
hood, at least by proximity, and 
if youre lonely and feel like
j The fare is very expensive, but 
excellent. Specialties are seafood 
and steaks, with dinners at about^ 
$7. Late suppers (the lights are 
dimmed at 6 p.m.) can be mem
orable here. Its patrons prefer to 
keep it something of a secret; it 
has neither Le Monts ostentation 
nor its advertising campaign.
Thistle Leads 
Annual March
Strike up the music! Turn on 
that strut! Join the ever-growing 
parade of Thistle buyers! This is 
one event you cant afford to miss. 
This is one yearbook you have to own!
Why? Because its the best, the 
biggest, the most hep Thistle ever 
to be produced on the Tech cam
pus. So put on your marching 
shoes; join the parade and step to 
the music of the 1964 Thistle!
Cwens To Hold 
Selection Tea
(continued from page 1)
Cwens are now planning to be 
guides cn Freshmen Parents* Day. 
A special meeting was held with 
the Cwens at the University of 
Pittsburgh, featuring a speech by 
a noted New York psychologist 
followed by a coffee hour. Next 
years Cwens will be participating 
is more campus activities, further
ing the leadership qualities of this 
national honorary organization.
?
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
HOT DOG SHOP
JUICIEST & MOST TEMPTING HOT DOGS IN TOWN
 MUSTARD  RELISH ONION PICKLE
a MAYONNAISE s SAUERKRAUT e CHILE a KETCHUP
OUR PRICE INCLUDES ALL TRIMMINGS
19-INCH SUBMARINE 
GOLDEN BROWN ONION RINGS 
GOLDEN BROWN FRIED CHICKEN 
SALAD & FRENCH FRIES 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER  Sl.flO)
621-7388682-8466
OAKLAND ORIGINAL
PIZZA SHOP
HAMBURGER 15c - PIZZA (per cut) 10c 
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL DORMS
(MINIMUM ORDER  $1.50)
CORNER FORBES & BOUQUET 421-7388  682-8466
New Technical 
Presents Broad 
Coverage
Students from the departments 
of industrial management, mathe
matics, drama, and electrical en
gineering have contributed articles 
for the April issue of the Carnegie 
Technical. Now being sold around 
the campus, this months issue in
cludes five major articles and 
three feature columns.
John Jackson is the author of 
Policy of Containment. His sub 
ject deals with the current effect 
of the present United States policy 
on foreign affairs and the cold
James Levy, Keith Murgatroyd, 
Paul Mathews, and Richard Pikorshy present A Psychological 
Study of Lord of the Flies/ Their 
paper analyzes the dominant traits 
in the four main characters of Wil
liam Goldings controversial and 
widely-read novel.
L. Stephen Coles study, Ex
tending the Problem-Solving Ca
pacities of Man, presents an in
triguing speculation about the pos
sibility of removing certain re
straints on human problem-solv
ing.
Electronic Stage-Lighting Con
trol by Ken Moses draws together 
a historical summary of theater 
lighting techniques and present 
methods used in the Carnegie Tech 
theater. He explains in detail the 
electronic principles of the sys
tem.
Roger Patterson wrote Fluid 
Control Systems, an article which 
presents the study, of a current 
and popular subject, with an em
phasis on modern-day rocketry 
and space flight.
Continuing in the issue are the 
math quiz, and answers to last 
months puzzles, besides a current 
listing of Job interviews on cam
pus.
A special editorial considers the 
question of liberal arts as opposed 
to a technical education.
Sigma Kappa sister vs. Kappa Sigma brother in egg roll.
Sigma Kappa & Kappa Sigma 
Bring Easter To Tech Campus
Easter came early to the Tech campus this year. Sigma 
Kappa and Kappa Sigma held an Easter party on March 21 
for the children of the faculty. All morning the two groups 
were busy coloring Easter eggs, filling baskets, making bun
nies, and hiding the eggs.
After the children arrived, it didnt take them long to find the 
eggs and bunnies. In fact, it took 
th Sig Kaps and Kappa Sigs 
longer to hide them! Now the 
children can look forward to get 
ting another Easter basket in a 
week.
Easter baskets were also placed 
in the fraternity house and on the 
desk in Morewood Lobby.
Drama Department
The nationally-known depart
ment of drama at Carnegie Tech 
is celebrating its 50th anniver
sary this year. In 1914, the de
partment awarded the first col
lege-level degree in drama ever 
given in the United States.
LEWIS
Sales T Repairs 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. SUPPLIES RADIOS HIGH FIDELITY TELEVISION RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
DO IT YOURSELF
and pick up your Volkswagen right 
at the factory gate in Wolfsburg. 
The savings are tremendous  about 
$159.00 on a sedan,  more on 
convertibles and station wagons. Go
Motors Tour, leaving by jet on Aug
ust 4, return in time ior the fall term. 
For more information call Mr. PaulMuxfeldt at M. W. Motor? and ask 
for the March issue of Beetle Talk 
and Tourist Delivery Information.
Today's Best Buy;
1957 Volkswagen Sedan 
Fully Equipped 
Excellent Condition
$1695
M. W. Motors
731 Butler St. Rt. 8, Etna 
Pittsburgh 23, Pa.
ST. 1-5671 HU. 6-1810
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
for Seniors and Graduates in HUS-P1ESPLOH AERONAUTICAL, CHEMICAL,ELECTRICAL, NUCLEAR, and METALLURGICAL ENGINEERING
ENGINEERING MECHANICS APPLIED MATHEMATICS PHYSICS and ENGINEERING PHYSICS
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
THURSDAY, APR, 9
Pratt & Whitney fi ire raft
Appointments should bamado 
In advanca through your 
Collega Placement Offleou
ft"
MViStOM OF NfTE^mWAT COW%
I
An Equal Opportunity Enpfoyer
SPECIALISTS IN POWER... POWER FOR PROPULtllW-POWER FOR AUXILIART SYSTMt.
CURRENT UTILIZATIONS INCLUDE AIRCRAFT, MISSILES, SPACt VEHICLE*, MARINI AND INDUSTRIAL AFFUCATI0M
-----------------------------I____________;________________ 

---------------------------------------------------

rage 4  CARNEGTAKTAN  Wednesday, March 25,1964
This Week In Pittsburgh
MUSIC
?Carnegie Concert Series, an Evening of Sonatas, March 
25, 8:30 p.m., Carnegie Lecture Hall, Sidney Harth, 
violin, Nelson Whitaker, piano. (PCC)
- ' Carnegie Concert Series, College-Community Orchestra
Concert, April 4, 8:30 p.m. Carnegie Music Hall. (PCC)
*Organ Recital, March 29, 3 p.m. Carnegie Music Hall, 
Robert C. McCoy.
Dialogue for Easter," March 29, 7:30 p.m. East Liberty 
Presbyterian Church.
Pittsburgh Symphony Subscription Series,' March 28, 
8:40 .p.m., March 29, 3:10 p.m., Syria Mosque. Van 
Cliburn, piano. Bach, Brandenburg Concerto #4; 
Beethoven, Symphony #1; Brahms, Piano Concerto #1.
Pittsburgh Symphony Subscription Series, .April 3, 8:40 
p.m., April 5, 3:10 p.m., Syria Mosque, Lopatnikoff, 
Concerto for Orchestra; Stravinsky, Suite from 
Petrouchka; others. Leon Fleicher, piano.
Colorado College Choir Concert, March 29, 2 p.m., Cal
vary Episcopal Church.
Organ Recital, April 1, 8 p.m., St. Pauls Cathedral, 
Paul Koch.
*Organ Recital, April 6, 8:30 p.m., St. Pauls Cathedral, 
Pierre Cochereau, organist of Notre Dame Cathedral 
in Paris.
Pittsburgh Opera, April 24, 8:15 p.m., Syria Mosque, 
Bellinis La Sonnambula with Robert Peters, Enzio 
Flagello, Robert Moulson.
LECTURES
*Falk Lecture Series, April 8, 4 p.m. and April 9, 8 p.m., 
Howard K. Smith, Changing Challenges to America.
Womens Club of Carnegie Tech, April 1, 1 p.m. Skibo, 
Backstage Broadway, Dr. Beekman W. Cottrell.
University Passover Seder, March 27, 7 p.m., contact 
secretary, Bnai Brith Hillel for reservations, 621-8876.
Paper backs and Modern Literature Series, March 25, 
1:30 p.m., Irene Kaufmann Center, Dr. Richard L. 
Rubenstein, The King Must Die.
?Work, Love and Sigmund Freud, March 25, 8:30 p.m., 
YM&WHA, Dr. Richard L. Rubenstein.
*The Romantic Comedies. April 7, 11:30 a.m. Fine Arts 
Theater, Professor John A. Hart.
Dibenzotetraazapentalene, American Chemical Society, 
March 26, 8:15 p.m., Scaife Hall, Dr. Howard E. Sim
mons, DuPont Co.
EXHIBITS
1 Paintings of Philip Mendloy, March 20, April 17, 10 a.m.
 5 p.m., Pittsburgh Gallery of Fine Art.
*Henry C. Pity, sketches and paintings, March 24-April 
10, Porter Garnett Gallery.
MOVIES
Way Down East, March 27, 4:30, 7, 9:30 p.m. Porter 
Hall 100, Film Arts.Bitter Rice, April 3, 4:30, 7, 9:30 p.m., Porter Hall 100, 
Film Arts.
*Menilmontant, The Interview, Muscle Beach, 
Magic Mountains, Children Make Movies, April 7, 
8:15 p.m. Porter Hall 100, Filmgraphic.
SPORTS
Track, CIT vs. Jeannette, April 4, 1:30 p.m., Tech Field.
Tennis, CIT vs. St. Vincent, April 4,1:30 p.m., Tech courts.
Golf, VIT vs. Waynesburg, April 7, 1 p.m. Longue Vue 
Country Club.
*free and open to the public,
Readers Write
Ugly Men, 
Parking Draw 
Comments
Are There No 
Ugly Men?
Editor, The Tartan:
Surely the handsome brutes 
can search their organizations 
and find a candidate for the an
nual Ugliest Man on Campus 
contest. UMOC, sponsored by 
Kappa Chapter of Alpha Phi 
Omega, welcomes anyone to par
ticipate in this ugliest UMOC 
ever. To preserve competition, 
faculty members are ineligible.
The opportunity to stuff the 
ballot box will be from 8:30 to 
4:30 in front of Skibo and the 
Hunt Library, Monday through 
Thursday, April 27-30. Voting 
is definitely unlimited, but a 
penny per ballot. All proceeds 
go to Campus Chest.
In order to simplify the pro
cedure and give every organiza
tion an equal opportunity to en
ter, Alpha Phi Omega has ar
ranged to have the ugly pic
tures taken on April 4, at a 
nominal fee payable then.
It is not wise for an organi
zation to hide its ugly candi
date. It should let everyone suf
fer. UMOC is an excellent 
chance topublicize an organiza
tion. UMOC is a lot of fun and 
will give the fellows a reason 
to work together to advertise 
and support their ugly man. 
Pictures and names of candi
dates are printed in the Tartan 
and displayed at the^polling sta_ tions. , ' ,'
The Ugly Rian who wins will 
receive public recognition and 
the Ugly Mug at the Spring 
Carnival dance. It is as ugly as 
the winner himself (if this is 
possible) and holds three full 
litres of your favorite ugly po
tion, enough to keep UMOC 
ugly for the rest of the year. 
The fun and enjoyment of 
UMOC bolsters the success of 
the Campus Chest Drive.
UMOC Chairman
Editorial 
Avoids Issue
Ltian
In Congress
by Tim Hiss
Last Wednesday the committee chairmen of Student 
Congress gathered to discuss plans for the forthcoming 
Congress elections. This year Congress has decided to put 
forth a special effort, greater than ever in the past, to attract 
qualified students to its April 21 elections.
Encouraging news poured in from all over Campus. In 
keeping with its general motto for this year of progress, 
Student Congress has gone to the administration to talk 
over campus problems and has found the administration 
willing both to listen and to act.
The school_has placed fences around the lawns on the 
premise that the campus looks better when the grass does 
not have any paths worn through it. It is unfortunate that 
this had to be done, but alternatives are available. If the 
fences are removed and the paths reappear, the same 
aromatic fertilizer that was used last year could be used 
again as a subtle deterrent.
One sad note prevailed this week. Once again the archi
tecture. department has failed to produce the design of a 
bulletin board for the campus which it has promised for so 
long. Congress will be glad to accept student plans for the 
Ibulletin board, which is to be compatible with the design 
|of the rest of the campus and placed in a prominent locaItion.
Student Congress 
Supports Security
Editor, The Tartan:
In reply to the letter of Mr. 
Carlson and Mr. Smith.
Your challenge to Chief Young 
and subsequent attack on Tech 
(continued on page S)
I A Candle in the Darkness
By Jeffrey Axelrad
The Carnegie Plan
Editor, Th Tartan:
We feel that Mr. Strafs edi
torial of March 18 has avoided 
the basic issue of the parking 
situation. The issue is that we 
object to being railroaded into 
using the school operated lots. 
The problem is not who should 
issue tickets, as Mr. Straf sug
gests, but whether they should 
be issued. The recent restric
tions of previously legal parking 
\areas and the over-zealous en
forcement of these restrictions 
appears to us to be a none too 
subtle effort to force the use of 
the metered lots. It is difficult 
to understand how the students 
here at Carnegie Tech can so 
passively accept such action.
Jay Smith, Senior-EE 
Paul Carlson, Senior-EE 
Harry K. James, Senior-Pbysics 
James Brown, Senior-EE
TARTAN
Whait is the Carnegie Plan? Many would answer 
Screw the students. Is this really correct? The adminis
tration chooses the subject matter which must be mastered 
before a student may graduate. As a result a student is 
likely to take several courses that he does not like, and 
others that he does not feel are relevant. If a student wants 
to take only subjects he likes, he should not have come 
here. Where requests for changes are reasonable, they have 
been considered; but the administration expects the student 
to perform in more than his own field. This is a suitable 
goal for a school whose purpose is to turn out graduates 
of above average capabilities and knowledge.
Then, perhaps the trouble arises in the area of studentteacher relations: Publish or perish is the maxim, and 
often teachers spend as little time as possible on their teach
ing duties. But the standards are high, so the student must 
do much self-teaching. This doesnt sound bad; however 
even more could be learned and higher standards attained 
if teachers would teach. This is a reasonable request. The 
administration could aid such a development by putting 
more emphasis on teaching.
Often the complaint is that too many students are 
flunked or given low grades. Standards, are inflexible and 
do not make allowance for human differences (so the com
plaint goes). Where the majority of a class flunks, this is 
probably an unjust state of affairs  if students did not 
have the ability to pass, they would not be admitted, and it 
is hard to believe that the majority of a class is loafing. The 
same reasoning does not hold when a sizable minority 
flunks. More often than not those who flunk havent learn
ed. If teachers pass them, they are helping students who 
didnt work at the expense of those who did (lowered stand
ards, prestige, etc.). While inflexible standards may be un
fair, perfectly flexible ones are also.
The above paragraphs have been mostly a defense of 
the present system (with a few improvements added.) The 
most important effect of such r.ules and standards has not 
yet been mentioned: The atmosphere which results. Car
negie Tech is not the mainstream of the American college 
culture. For better or for worse it is much more serious, and 
has more work-oriented students. Criticisms of the second 
point are often heard : and where work means devotion 
to studies only, the attitude may be a narrow (and un
desirable) one. Tech offers working -students a wide var
iety of activities; they need not be confined to any one area. 
Such work is part of the process of getting an education. 
(But didnt you write before that studies are much more 
important? Answer: Yes, where there is a conflict. I dont 
think student bodies should guide anyone into any acti
vity.)
This article has been a bunch of generalities with the 
faults that such sweeping statements have. The author has 
tried to give credit where credit is due.
'CARNEGIE
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Editor in-Chief ............................................Miron Straf
Executive Editor .................................Nancy Cameron
Managing Editor ..........................................A1 Pollock
Business Manager ................................Michael McCoy
News Editor ........................................ Dale Chodorow
Assistant News Editor ................................Alma Rock
Features Editor.............................. .Martha Hodgson
Sports Editor ....................................Scott McCormick
Layout Editor ..........................................Drew Lippay
Copy Editor ..............................................Clarita Dzatko
Advertising Manager ...........................Eric FeldmannSecretary Editor ..........................................Kathy Vogel
Circulation Editor ...................................Tom Johnson
Annual Subscription Bate $2.50 Socond Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Ine. Offices: Skibo, Room 50, borbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
Office phone, MU. 2-4557; Editor-in-Chief, MU. 2-9580 
Business Manager, MU. 2-8895; Advertising Manager, MU. 
2-9079. Managing Editor, MU. 2-9053. Published weekly 
during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Advisory Board: John Blue, Frank Brady, Charles Ho Fook, Annie Moser, Margie Park, Peggy Riva, Martha Siegel.News Staff: Bob Fritz, Bob Crjscom, Elissa Parker, Gretchcn Smith, Bob Wohlford.Re-Write Staff: Sara Cromley, Mark Ferdman, Callie Gilleland, Morris Goldstein, Janet Wcstover.Features Staff: Susan Attinson, Leslie Buchman. Becky Emerson, Miriam Gillespie, Jane Keeler, Marian Mulligan, Karen Mihm, Sharon Shuttleworth, Nancy Cameron. -
Sports Staff: Jay Arnold, Ron Bidula, Dick Elder, A1 Green, Bill HaTtlep, Chrifl Macosko.
Business Staff: Eric Feldman, George Mcrriman, Dick Moore.Layout Staff: Diane Brown, Dick Elder, Drew Lippay, Beverely Philofaky, Ted 
Pierce, Barbara Thorton, Marylu Recco, Bruce McDonald, Sharon Shuttleworth.Copy Staff: Helen Beatty, Linda Booth, Barbara Brown, Mike Greenawalt, Verna Ream, Ginny Salko, Glnny Uliss, Lorraine Vinograd, Rick Shrlner, Chris Zimmerman.
.Secretarial Staff: Hazel BnkarJan. Beth Canen, Oanls Cummings, Pat Hartman, Carol Kamell, Karen Kutner, Leslie McKinley, Mary Stoll, Lorraine Vinograd, Carol Young.Circulation Staff: George Kail. J. E. Miller. Tom Chamberlin.Photo staff: Tom Clements,' Jim Pawley, Joe O'Connor, Johns Oslas, Howard Schwartz,

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, March 5, 1964  CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 5
Freshman Penalized 
| For Possession Of Car
| To better acquaint Carnegie Tech students with the operI stions of the Student Court and to familiarize them with 
Jfcschool laws, the Tartan will publish a series of Student Court 
| eases. (The actual cases outlined are true and factual. All 
| names have been withheld to ensure the anomymity of those
|j involved.)Ed. ?----------------------------------------------------
jf The first of these cases involves 
$ the possession of an automobile 
by a male freshman dormitory 
h resident. It reads:
jj The Student Court took action 
\-against an underclass student who 
I'idimtted to operating and pos| sessing a car. CIT rules prohibit 
j resident freshman and sopho| jnores from operating or pos] sessing automobiles.
In this case the Student Court 
 handed down the following de
ll cisin:
| I. He shall immediately corn
il ply with the school policy,
^ and continue to do so for the
^ remainder of the year.
i 2. He shall not possess or oper' ate a motor vehicle during
| the next school year in spite
 of the fact that he will then
\ be a third-year student and
| hence normally be entitled to
:j possess an automobile. That
j is, he shall continue to comply with the policy pertainW ing to freshmen and sophoi mores during 1964 and 1965.
: 3. He shall pay the four parkjj ing fines he has accrued by
April 1, 1964.
I 4. He is hereby placed on a
J special probation which subj jects him to severe discipline
J ary action if he fails to comj ply with any of t h e above
j provisions.
One reason for the severity of 
| this punishment was the fact that 
3 the student had acquired four 
:) parking tickets. Furthermore, the 
^ student had his roommate pur| chase the registration forms from j the school for the automobile. His 
I roomate, a graduate student, was 
j entitled to purchase such forms.
Fine Arts
Seeks Entrants 
For Festival
The College of Fine Arts, Car
negie Tech, is now accepting en
tries for the Third Annual Car
negie Awards Festival in music, 
drama, and dance to be held April 
24 and 25. Entries will be accept
ed until April 6th. The Festival 
will feature 117 classes of compe
tition, and will include a special 
division for schools in orchestra, 
band, and vocal ensemble, as well 
as sections for voice and instru
mental soloists, ensembles, vocal 
chorus, church chorus, drama, and 
dance.
The purpose of the festival is to 
foster artistic advanceme 
through performance, evaluate 
performance, and recognize and 
reward outstanding performance. 
Entries are encouraged from all 
sources, and there are open class 
sections for all age groups. Tro
phies, medals, cash scholarships in 
open classes, and certificates of 
merit will be awarded to those 
judged outstanding at a Carnegie 
Awards Festival Concert to be 
held Tuesday, May 19, in the Car
negie Music Hall.
Entry forms and an information 
booklet can be obtained from Mr. 
Philip B. Catelinet, executive sec
retary, Carnegie Awards Festival, 
Carnegie Institute of Techlology, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.
Theres a time and place for everything
Right now Shakespeare has you engrossed. But 
when youve finished Romeo and Juliet, take ~ 
a telephone break and call home. Your parents 
would love to hear from you. It means so much \ 
costs so little.
Penney Heads 
Research Team
Professor Gaylord W. Penney, 
will head an electrical engineer
ing team at Carnegie Tech in re
newed research on the improve
ment of smoke removing devices 
with the aid of a grant of $29,100 
from the National Institute of 
Health.
The grants made available to 
Carnegie Tech for air cleaning re
search during the past six years 
total more than $150,000.
Professor Penneys latest project 
will deal with the question of 
what makes dust particles stick 
to the collecting mechanisms and 
how to increase the efficiency of 
the equipment by cutting down 
on electrical troubles.
Spend Wisely, 
Buy Patterns
(continued from page 1)
to that good old Patterns mem
ber ...
But here, here, friends, do not 
despair, you still may set things 
straight:
Be first in line when Patterns 
comes, you mustnt hesitate.
And when you do, my friends, 
though you be now inclined to 
yank me,
Im sure that Patterns worth and 
words will make you want to 
thank me.
Thank you!
Readers Write
Write for application and 
further information to 
Engineering Unit E 
New York CHy 
Personnel Department 
299 Broadway. New York 7, N.Y.
Student Congress 
Supports Security
(continued from page 4)
Security lacks the full under
standing you if eel you have.
In familiarizing your readers 
with parking regulations, you 
rely on traditions Pittsburgh po
lice feel are no longer adequate 
to meet current needs. The 
usual penalties and only oc
casional use of towing were by
passed as methods for punishing 
abuse of traffic regulations as a 
result of a recent Pittsburgh 
Safety Council extensive survey 
of traffic situations on the Car
negie campus. The report rec
ommended that all parking be 
eliminated on the Frew Street 
corner, and from Forbes Avenue 
to Tech Street along Margaret 
Morrison Street, as well as by 
fireplugs, not now properly re
spected. As a result of this study, 
and modifying recommendations 
by Mr. Young that parking be 
permitted on one side of the 
Frew Street corner an d from 
Forbes up to the Home Man
agement House (beside Donner) 
along Margaret Morrison; city 
police initiated a strict removal 
of cars when tickets were no 
longer effective.
Their study concentrated on 
student safety at the blind cor
ners Tech students do not prop
erty respect, and their renewal 
of the fire plug ordanance only 
strengthens necessary fire pro
tection. Since Tech police have
no authority on Pittsburgh 
streets other than in' emergency, 
Pittsburgh Police aire solely re
sponsible. They will enforce 
these' new regulations, either on 
their own initiative or when 
campus need, as registered with 
the city, necessitates. Their in
tent is not to force use of the 
metered lots.
Reconsider also your general 
attack on Tech Security wnich, 
perhaps because - of ignorance, 
disregards their service to Tech 
and its students. They have co
operated extensively in Fall. Fes
tival and Spring Carnival and 
their emergency procedures dur-. 
ing the chemistry explosion was 
of great assistance to at least 
two people. The mere fact of 
their presence has saved cars 
and property of Tech students. 
They are not here to force un
wanted restrictions, but to pro
vide service to both Tech stu
dents and faculty.
Tom Glassberg, Soph., M. E* 
Dick Elder. Soph., Physics 
General Campus Committee 
Student Congress
Graduate Study
Graduate study at Carnegie 
Tech has more than doubled in 
the past ten years. Tech an
nually awards more doctorates 
in engineering than any other 
college or university in Penn
sylvania  about 40% ol the 
state total.
THE LOOK IS TODAY - AND YESTERDAY!
Long-legged Naturals by famed h.i.s. blend modern, upto-the-second styling with tried-and-true traditional de
tails. For instance, you wear cuffless Naturals down on 
your hips; theyre tight, tapered and terrific! But tricks 
and gimmicks are out; theyve got traditional belt loops 
and regular pockets that go perfectly with their stream
lined look. In great new shades and washable fabrics 
..... 5-98 and 6.98
UOF
(Euarlf Wfomt
Traditional Apparel for Men 
5823 Forbes Ave. Squirrel Hill
Phone 521-760
Open Taeiiy ! Thtrt4kj tmIbii atil |;M

---------------------------------------------------

r*et 6 - CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, March 25, 1961
On Thursday, April 2, the Film Arts Society will hold the 
premiere of a new short film, Evolution of a Shadow. Filmed 
here on the Tech campus, it was produced and directed by 
Ken Johnson.
Ken is a Senior in the Drama Department, and has been 
the President and Business Man-*' 
ager for Film Arts since 1960.
Quizzed at a rehearsal for Scotch 
and Soda, which he is currently 
directing, Ken said that the film 
is about a young girl who lets 
her fear take possession of her.
My purpose in making the pic-, 
ture was to gain an understand
ing of the techniques and prob
lems inherent in film work; this 
aspect of directing is missing from 
our training in the Drama Depart
ment, he added.
 Sam Goldwyn, Jr., who recently 
visited the campus, expressed an 
enthusiastic desire to see Kens 
film, although it had. not been 
compiled then. Goldwyn hopes to 
be able to assist him in his ca
reer as a motion picture director.
The film will be shown at Film 
Arts, after the Easter recess, on 
the same program with Bitter 
Rice. Film Arts showings are in 
Porter Hall 100 at 4;30, 7:00, and 
9:30.
lake most of us, you probably 
feel pressured at times with the 
demands made on you for original 
thinking,  for fresh ideas that 
will lift your work above the 
commonplace. Through the study 
of this book, Science and Health 
with Key to the Scriptures by 
Mary Baker Eddy, we are learn
ing how to turn to God for the 
intelligent ideas we need. You 
can do this, too.
We invite you to come to our 
meetings and to hear how we 
are working out our problems 
through applying the truths of 
Christian Science.
CHRISTIAN SCIENCE 
ORGANIZATION
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Pittsburgh 
Meeting time: 4:30 p.m. Tuesday Meeting place: Skibo Chopel
Science and Health it available at all Christian Science Reading Roomt and at many college bookstores. Paperback Edition Si.95.
Dr. Meltzer 
Directs Probe
A probe into the past to bet
ter predict future economic events 
will be directed by Dr. Alan H. 
Meltzer, an associate professor in 
the Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration (GSIA) at Car
negie Tech.
A $60,000 grant from the Na
tional Science Foundation will 
enable Dr. Meltzer and an asso
ciate, Karl Brunner, of UCLA, 
to continue work pi'eviously sup
ported by GSIA.
The grant, which will be used 
over a three-year period, will en
able the researchers to rteet and 
compare their findings. During the 
summer months, Dr. Meltzer will 
concentrate on what economic 
factors lead to unemployment 
and inflation.
Fine Arts 
Invites 
Pre-Collegians
The Pre-College Programs of 
the College of Fine Arts offer 
Tour-fold benefits to its partici
pants: They provide a sound
background to the arts for high 
school students. Students receive 
professional guidance from ex
perienced educators. Assistance is 
offered to help the student dis
cover if he has the necesary apti
tudes for further study at the col
lege level. Finally, the college has 
the opportunity of appraising the 
student.
Although these courses do not 
earn college credit for the par
ticipant, a written evaluation of 
his work is presented to him at 
the close of the sessions.
Courses are being offered this 
year in architecture, art, drama, 
and music. Classes will begin on 
June 22 and continue through 
July 31, and will be included in 
a five-day week.
Application forms and instruc
tions may be obtained by writing 
to: Professor Kenneth Burchard, 
Director of Summer Sessions, Car
negie Tech, Pittsburgh 13, Penn
sylvania.
-JCameron Choir Gains 
Performance Spotlight
Carnegie Tech alumni who 
come back looking for the Men 
or Womens Glee Clubs will find 
their counterparts in the Cam
eron Choir. The choir, formed 12 
years ago, is made up approxi
mately 60 male and female sing
ers. All of the departments at 
Carnegie Tech arc represented 
in the choir. Mr. Camp, the di
rector, holds auditions at the be
ginning of each semester.
The versatile gioup is equally 
at home singing Bach and Brahms 
motets, contatas, Walt Whitmans 
poems in Lincoln lyrics and 
Strauss love songs. They also sing 
spirituals, show tunes from such 
productions as Porky and Bess, 
Scottish airs and campus songs. 
When performing for Carnegie 
Tech alumni, the. choir includes 
a sing-a-long session of campus 
songs, usually reserved for the 
end of the program 
The busy stuaenu give two 
formal concerts a year, usually at 
the end of each semester. They 
also give three or four concerts 
year at various high schools.
The choir sometimes hits the 
I road for alumni concerts. They 
have performed in New Yoifc 
City, Columbus, Erie and Phila,
| delphia and on April 19 will b|s 
, in Baltimore. The choir has alsa^ 
performed on radio and televi
sion. Locally, the Camerons have 
performed in Carhegie Music Hall 
and Stephen Foster Memorial.
The traveling' uniforms cull 
for the wearing of the Cameron 
plaid spirts, white blouses and 
plaid sashes from the left shoulder 
to the right hip for the girls; the 
men wear dark trousers, CamI 
eron blazers, white shirts and bo\^ 
ties.
In April 4, The Womens Clan 
will sponsor the Annual Thistle 
Scholarship Bridge Luncheon. The 
Cameron Choir is featured on Ihe 
program. It will present a pro
gram of light music, including 
Gypsey in My Soul/" Ezekiel," 
Soon Ah Will be Done," and a 
suite from th Music. Man. On 
May 15, the Choir will present., 
its annual Spring Concert in the^ 
Skibo Ballroom, which will fea
ture works by Bach, Samuel 
Barber, and Gershwin.
m
THE BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES 
SALUTE: REGIS FILTZ
As an engineering associate, Regis Filtz (B.S.M.E., 1958) 
is involved in virtually all facets of telephone communica
tions for Bell of Pennsylvania. From the design of under
ground conduit to bridge cables, Regis is an expert.
Much of his reputation caime about on his first assignmenl, where his recommendations for the most economical 
underground cable resulted in savings estimated at $200,000 
annually.
Other assignments have included engineering require
ments on a variety of communications equipment and
services. He has even taught a course m switching logic.
For Regis, the diversity of assignments has broadened 
his engineering knowledge and given him the opportunity 
to advance in position and compensation. His authority 
in catenary suspensions requires field engineers to consult 
with him in the design of such spans.
Regis Filtz, like many young engineers, is impatient 
to make things happen for his company and himself. There 
are few places where such restlessness is more welcomed 
or rewarded than in the fast-growing telephone business.
BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

---------------------------------------------------

Wew, Mardi 25, IM  CKNBGIE TARTAN  rate T
HNLYV WYX|! E!OO!L NLYV 1'M3 
3 IA EYK!OiY|| *'Y3r'3
Intramural Night
A large, enthusiastic crowd packed their way into the 
gymnasium Friday evening for the 16th annual Intramural 
Night, and witnessed the Grad Eagles 36-27 victory over the 
Grad Physics in the intramural championship basketball 
game, as well as Sigma Nus 56-53 win over the Dorm-Trojans 
in the consoluation encounter. 4 
The evening began as the 
Whales and the Flat Feet , squared 
off on the main court for the 
championship of the jag league.
The Flat Feet jumped out to a 16- 
14 halftime lead behind a 10 point 
outburst by Jeff Toner, but the 
steady play of Russ Freed and the 
.bucket bombing of Peter Ho provs?t*d too much for the Fallen Arches 
to handle in the final quarter, and 
the Whales captured a 30-24 vicjj lory.
;j The consolation game was a nip| and-tuck affair all the way. Gerry 
?! Meiers rippling jump shots gave 
| the Dorm-Trojans a 13-11 first 
ij quarter lead, but high-scoring 
| tactics by John Blue and Dave 
& Vandelinde enabled Sigma Nu lo 
^take a 28-26 lead to the dressing 
r' room at halftime. Gene King and 
j Frank Rizzo kept the Dorm: Trojans in the game during the
j third period, and as the final quar
ter began, they trailed only at 41- 
38. At this point both teams threw 
defense to the winds, and after 8 
minutes of racehorse basketball 
with Lawrence, Blue, and Engelmann firing for Sigma Nu, and 
Dave Kelso retaliating for the 
Dorm-Trojans, SN came out on top 
56-53.
After this game, John Oppenheimer and Harvey Gammon, 
presidents of the l.M. Board and 
Managers Club respectively, pre
sented trophies to the'champions 
of each individual intramural 
sport. The Grad Eagles copped the 
first place awards in football, corec volleyball, and squash, while 
the Dorm-Trojans received tro
phies for volleyball, table tennis, 
and soccer. Alpha Tau Omega re
ceived the water polo trophy, 
while SAE took the honors in 3- 
man volleyball, and BTP did likeTartan Rifle Team Surprises 
All But Gornell At Tournament
v Carnegie Techs varsity rifle team put on its finest shoot
ing performance of the season at Canisius College, placing 
second to Cornell in one of the countrys largest NRA Sec
tional matches. Coached by John Murphy, the Tartans fourman team of Mike Knepley, Phil Meyers, Bob Fritz, and Joe 
Schlitt ran up a score of 1131, good enough to defeat thirtythree teams from eighteen schools.
Carnegie also did well in indiidual competition held on Fri
day Mike Knepley placed sixth 
out of 158 shooters with a 97-95- 
92, 284 score. Phil Meyers was 
eighth with 97-94-92, 283.
Cornell, who had a dismal sea
son befgore coming to Canisius, 
surprised everyone by shooting an 
1143 to walk away with the firstplace trophyThey were helped 
considerably by a fifth-year
shooter, inelibigle for NCAA in
tercollegiate competition, but eligible for NRA matches, who got a 
v 290. Had Cornell been iorced to 
use four men from their varsity 
team, there would have been 
dogfight forfirst place.
In taking second, CIT beat 
many big-name schools, including 
Syracuse, St. Bonaventure, Buf
falo, Akron, Youngstown, Canisius, 
Duquesne, Alfred, Geneva, Clar
ion, Niagara, R.I.T., John Carroll, 
St. Lawrence, Clarkson, and Gan^ non.
Akron, paced by two shapely 
girl shooters, took third place with 
a score of 1129. Jean Linton, a 
well-proportioned blonde and also 
Akrons best shot, took third 
among the individuals with a 285.
Genevas Windhorst won the 
individual trophy with a 286. 
Boysen, from Alfred, took second 
place and high ROTC with a 285. 
'j The Tartans did thoir best 
shooting in the clutch. When they 
went to the range for their first 
relay, it looked like Akrons 1129 
was the score to beat. This meant 
that to win, thet earn had to av
erage better than 282 per man.
No one seemed shaken though, 
as Knepley and Fritz dropped 
only four points in the prone and 
kneeling position. Both fell be. low their usual level in the standwise in bowling and foul shooting. 
To cap off the proceedings, Venu 
Chari and John Williams put on 
an excellent table tennis exhibition.
Then the Grad Eagles and the 
Grad Physics took the floor for 
the championship game. From the(continued on page 8)
ing position though, Knepley with 
an 89, and Fritz an 86, giving 
them 285 and 282 respectively.
This put the pressure on cap
tain Joe Schlitt and Phil Meyers. 
Schlitt, who averaged only 273 
over the season but who had 287,
278, and 276 in recent matches, 
responded with a fine 100-95-84,
279. Steady Phil Meyers shot 
what was exepected of him, a 99- 
94-92, 285.
But then Cornell came through, 
shooting way over their heads to 
finish with 1143 and the sectional 
championship.
This was undobtedly Carnegies 
best performance of the year. 
Each man shot what he was ca
pable of shooting, and the result 
was a fine score and a total of 
eight medals.
CITs second team also gave a 
good account of themselves, fin
ishing with a 1074. Tuck Arnold 
shot his career high of 280, Scott 
McCormick had his usual 272, 
Rich Damberg droped to a 267 
when he finished and shot a zero j 
after eight 10s, in nine shots, and ! 
Jim Burdick had his worst day 
of the yeer, sinking to 258 after a 
276 in the individual competition. 
Dan Mersel placed among the top 
36 individuals with a 278.
WAA Records 
Great Season
By Carol Kurtz
The Volleyball Club of the 
Womens Athletic Association en
joyed a good season this year. The 
group met for practice and games 
from February 13 to March 12. 
Intercollegiate tournaments were 
held at the home court on Febru
ary 22, with Slippery Rock and 
Grove City, and on March 7, with 
Thiel and California State. In 
both tournaments, the Tech Club, 
managed by sophomore Carol 
Kurtz, entered two teams and re
corded wins over Grove and Thiel 
in these matches. Separate games 
were played with the teams from 
the University of Pittsburgh and 
Geneva College with the Tech 
team also winning both matches.
The club was composed of 
twelve members including Judy 
Birken, Barbara Brown, Barbara 
Butler, CeCe Camardella, Anita 
Cohen, Casey Cohen, Beth DeWalt, Lorna Hershberger, Barbara 
Johnson, Carol Kurtz, Carolyn 
Morrow, and Virginia Salko. Next 
years team will be managed by 
Barbara Brown and again coach
ed by Miss Fisk of the Physical 
Education Department.
IM opponents up for rebound.
Between Classes or of Study Break . . .
-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3918 FORBES AVENUE 
. . . and . ..
ROUTE 8. NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVE.
TYPING
FAST O EFFICIENT 
 REASONABLE 
Term Papers  Theses  Dissertations  Punctuations  Spelling  Grammar Correctd AFCO ENTERPRISES
Call 421-456
Electric Typewriters Used 
Exclusively
Sikorsky
Aircraft
ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
TO GIVE SENIORS AND GRADUATES COMPLETE DETAILS ON
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
WITH THE PIONEER AND LEADING MANUFACTURER 
sf VTOL AIRCRAFT
See your College Placement Office now 
for an appointment.
Monday, April 6
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT, Stratford, Conn.  Division of United Aircraft Corp.  Ail Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

"Page X__CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, March SS, 19*
Grad Eagles 
Better 
Grad Physics
(continued from page 7). 
opening tip-off both teams went at 
full speed and /the first quarter 
ended with the physics students 
clown only at  11-9. During  the' 
second period, however, they were 
colder than a thermally insulated 
ice-bath, and Andy Komer and 
Howie Pifer pushed the margin to 
28-12. The second half was just 
the reverse of the first. The Grad 
Eagles missed everything and 
then some, and the shooting of 
Oosterhuis, Armistead, and Schoemake gradually narrowed the 
margin until it was 36-27 at the 
final buzzer, and the completion 
of another successful Intramural 
Night.
Course Development
Long known as an outstanding 
engineering and science institu
tion, Carnegie Tech is now a na
tional leader in high school cur
riculum development and teacher 
education, with more than $1 
million in grants for research in 
thse areas.
tWhfWGu
CuIRu
fWlWNGS1a
*RA1Sug
The Western Union 
Telegraph Company 
has several openings 
in its Field Engineer
ing organization for 
BS-EE graduates.
Assignments include 
testing a 11 d initial 
check-out of modern 
solid-state High-speed 
Data Systems, Broad-' 
Band Voice Switch
ing Networks, Microw a v e Transmission, 
and computer theory 
and programming, 
also field technical 
support of these sys
tems on a continuing 
basis.
A variety of challeng
ing assignments are 
available.
Contact:
C. H. Dalyrymple, 
Area Plant Supt.,
230 South 11th St., 
Phila., 7, Pa.
(Phone: Walnut 3-1700)
Mr. Dalrymple will be 
interviewing on campus 
on April 8th.
Dtidofh afop Mordecai in wrestling.
FURNITURE
to 40% Off
9 x 12 RUGS 
c Or se
Chase's
5432 Walnut St.Next to Shadyside Post Office 
621-1025 
Open 10 a.m. to 9 pjm.
Work-Study
Program
Vacancies
Receive tuition reimburse
ment, salary, benefits, and 
industrial experience at th 
Westinghouse Atomic 
Power Division. Interested 
freshmen or sophomore stu
dents in engineering or 
science call Mr. R. A. Cohen 
at 391-2800 extension C 207.
h*RR1 hnCSGW
For that appropriate Easter
 we recommend IDEAL 
EASTER BOOKS ... .$1.35
Beautiful HALLMAKK 
Easter Cards on display ... 
make your selection now ..,
The DEGREE RING is a 
mark of distinction you will 
wear with pride for a life
time . . . available to all 
Seniors.
*oIofo
ERR:hfRGW
g [  ' _ 
pi
jSfDMwfe CHANGED
i>.o h!3U!L
ONLY FORD-BUILT CARS MEET THE CHALLENGE WITH 
TOTAL PERFORMANCE!
Something wondcrfuPs happened to Ford Motor 
Company cars! Under the freshest styling seen in 
years, theres a new kind of durability and vigor that 
more than meets the demands of todays and tomor
rows high-speed turnpike driving conditions.
Whats the secret? Quality engineering for total per
formance. Quality engineering so outstanding that 
Ford Motor Company received the NASCAR Achieve
ment Award for engineering excellence which superbly" 
combines the prime essentials of great automobiles1 
performance, reliability, durability, comfort and safety. 
Total performance makes a world of difference. Bodies 
and frames are solid and quiet even on the roughest 
roads. The rides so smooth, so even-keeled, it seems 
to straighten the curves and shorten the miles. And 
nothing matches the spirit, sparkle and stamina of 
advanced Ford-built V-8s and thrifty Sixes. Totalperformance is yours to enjoy in all our 1964 carsfrom 
the frisky Falcon to the matchless Lincoln Continental.'
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road, Dearborn, Michigan 
taWGW WuNIuWWGIuN lWSBWGhaI1 EGIuNh vRt mWffWGTYCIlf *SGh
