Barbara Waddell, Home Economics sophomore from Crafton, Pa. 
has been selected to represent Carnegie in the Pittsburgh Press 
Rotos Campus Cover Girl Contest. The photographs of winners from 
27 district colleges and universities will be published in the Sunday, 
April 17 issue of the Press Roto, along with a ballot form for read
ers to vote for their favorite candidate. The deadline for votes to 
reach the newspaper is April 22. "
The winners photograph will appear on the cover of the Roto 
section Sunday, May 22.
Lets make it Barbara Waddell from Carnegie!
Yearly Shakespearean 
Play Is Presented
Last Saturday evening, March 23, marked the opening night of 
Shakespeares Much Ado About Nothing, presented by the stu
dents of the drama department and directed by Henry Boeecher. 
Performances are scheduled to be given until April 16 in the Little
National Science 
Foundation Award 
Go To 16 Students
Sixteen of the 516 National Sci
ence Fellowships recently an
nounced were awarded to CIT 
students. The awards are given 
to seniors and graduate students 
alike for continuing their study 
at Tech.
The following undergraduates 
were given awards: Physics, 
James Stephen Langer, John 
Richard Zener, David Clarence 
Larson, Webster Eugene Howard 
Jr.; Chemical Engineering. George 
Miley; and Electrial Engineering, 
Edward Davis, Wilson Sick.
Graduate students who have 
received awards include Joanne 
Brdiges, Chemintry; Howard MO 
Ilvried, Chemical Engineering; 
Ralph Crum, Civil Engineering; 
William Newell and Neil John
son, Mechanical Engineering; 
James Harrison Boyden, WiUiam 
Alfred Love, L. George Lang, 
Electrical Engineering; and Ray
mond Andrew Sorenson, Physics.
Holy Weeks Rites 
Will Be At Union
Non-denominational Holy Week 
services will be held at Carnegie 
Union each morning at 7:30 a.m. 
from April 4 through 7. The lead
ers will be student members of a 
different gi'oup for each service. 
After each service a light break
fast will be served by the girls of 
these organizations, and students 
will be out in time for 8:30 classes.
Everyone is invited, and the 
sponsor, the Student Christian 
Federation, is hoping there will 
be a large number in attendance 
at every service. These services 
are part of a campus wide attempt 
to interest more students in be; 
coming affiliated with cne of the j 
many religious groups on campus. |
Teknon will have charge of the 
program on Monday, Canterbury 
Club on Tuesday, Lutheran Stu
dent Association on Wednesday, 
and Wesley Fellowship on Thurs
day.
?Theater at 8:15 p.m., with the 
exception of the 'Easter vacation.
Tickets are still available to 
Tech students at Room 100 in the 
Fine Arts building.
Since 1914, the drama depart
ment has produced each year one 
Shakespearian play, the most re
cent of which are The Tempest, 
Henry IV and Hamlet. This 
year, a few of the players gave 
readings from the scenes for the 
Pittsburgh Drama League at the 
Arts and Crafts Center on Fifth 
Avenue.
In writing Much Ado About 
Nothing, Shakespeare qreated an 
unusual mixture of melodrama, 
high comedy and farce. One of 
the most interesting things about 
the story is the contrast between 
the Elizabethan concept of love 
as personified by Claudio and 
Hero and the more realistic, witty 
love of Benedict and Beatrice. 
Dogberry and the The Watch pro
vide the farcial comedy and ex
pose the antagonists in the story.
Projected slides are being used 
to indicate changes of locale in 
addition to a unit set built in 
simplified Italian Renaissance 
style. The colorful costumes also 
have the soft, flowing lines of that 
period.
Production Cast
Both faculty and students are 
taking part in the production staff 
taking part in the production staff. 
The faculty staff will include 
acting and direction by Henry 
Boettcher, Allen Fletcher, Charles 
Werner Moore, and Mary Morris; 
costumes by Elizabeth Schrader 
Kimberly and Fay Moore; light
ing by William Nelson, play writ
ing by Arthur Wilmurt, and radio 
by Lionel Poulton. Lloyd Wenin! ger and Paul Trautvetter are in 
charge of scene design and tech| nical direction. Speech is being 
! taken care of by Edith Warman 
Skinner and Ruth Dennhardt, 
stage movement by Katherine 
Litz and theatre managementby 
Richard A. Hoover.
In the student staff William 
Ball is assistant director, with set
tings being done by Mary Weaver, 
lighting by William Nelson and 
Robert Levin and costumes by 
[Continued on page SJ
Frolics Internationale Is 
Theme For Improved Midway
By Bill Sick
Frolics Internationale, Ken 
Penn Amusement Company, Plank 
Jousting, Call Day, Sweepstakes, 
Big Name Band, Sorority Relays 
all the ingredients for a great 
Spring Carnivaland all for the 
55 Carnival. Its true, all these 
and more too packed into one big 
wonderful weekendthe 1955 ver
sion of Spring Carnival is on its 
way!
Although Carnival is still a 
month and a half away, ODK and 
Mortar Board have been busy since 
January and plans for the week
end are now nearly complete. 
Competition rules are out, the 
amusement company and bands 
have been signed and the trophies 
ordered. The major planning has 
been completed and all that re
mains to be worked out are the 
details for some of the events and 
coordination between the various 
activities.
Midway Improvements
The biggest news to date con
cerning Carnival is the announce
ment that this years midway will 
be bigger and better than ever. 
In an attempt to improve the cali
ber of the midway the Carnival 
committee has signed Ken Penn 
Amusement Company. Ken Penn 
is bringing six rides for the cut. 
Among them will be the usual 
ferris wheel and merry-go-round 
and in addition a caterpillar, tilt 
a-whirl, and two others for the 
more adventurous. Ken Penn also 
has been given exclusive rights to 
the popcorn, cotton candy and 
candied apple concessions; Alpha 
Phi Omega, as usual, will operate 
their soft drink and hotdog booth.
Frolics Internationale
But the midway improvements 
dont end with just more and bet
ter rides and food concessions. 
The very character and appearance 
is also being altered. To do this a 
midway theme has been announced 
and prizes will be given to the 
groups who best work the theme 
into their individual booths. 
Frolics Internationale has been 
chosen as the theme and it is 
hoped that all the groups will in
corporate this into their booths in 
some manner. In general, the 
booh judging will be based on ap
propriateness of design to the 
theme, neatness and appearance of 
the booth and eectiveness of pre
sentation of the design. The way 
has been left wide open for indi
vidual groups to plan practically 
any type of presentation of the 
theme hte ydesire. The results 
should give the midway a decided 
lift in both the caliber and appear
ance of the boothsa lift which 
the committee thought would add 
much to the weekend.
Basic Schedule Retained
Although the midway is to be 
changed, Carnival for the most 
part will be quite similar to those 
in the past. With the exception of 
the float parade practically all of 
the features of last years Car
nival have been retained.
As in the past the Sweepstakes 
preliminary and finals will be held 
Friday and Saturday mornings re
spectively. About 16 entries are 
anticipated this year. Both the 
[Continued on page 8]
VOL. 48No. 21 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., MARCH 29, 1955
Dr. Earl A. Loomis Will Speak 
At Assembly Program April 5
Third Lecturer Of Religious Activities
Series Is Famous As Child Psychologist
Dr. Earl A. Loomis, Jr., psychiatrist at Western Psychiatric In
stitute and professor of child psychiatry at the University of Pitts
burgh, will address the students and faculty of Carnegie Tech on 
Tuesday morning, April 5, at il:30 in the Fine Arts Theatre. His
topic will be Faith and the Re-' 
discovery of Self.
Dr. Loomis will be the third 
speaker in the current series of 
assemblies sponsored by the Com
mittee on Religious Activities. The 
committee, including students, 
faculty, and alumni, represents 
the major faith groups on campus.
Dr. Loomis was born in Minne
apolis and took his undergraduate
Chem. Engineering 
Professors Form 
Consulting Firm
Five professors in the depart
ment of chemical engineering 
have combined their consulting 
partnership, with offices at 5118 
Beeler Street, Pittsburgh.
The consulting firm is a full
time, integrated organization serv
ing petroleum, chemical and al
lied process industriesin the tri
state area.
The partners, R. B. Beckman, 
L. N. Canjar, R. R. Rothfus, H. 
L. Toor and D. H. Archer have 
each had their own private con
sulting practice. As an integrated 
company, they are able to offer 
the industries in the tri-state 
area a more diversified back
ground of industrial experience 
and professional training than 
was possible on an individual 
basis.The firm undertakes short or 
long range problems in the field 
of research, evaluations and man
agement assistance.
Earl A. Loomis
Assembly Speaker
and medical training at the .Uni
versity of Minnesota. He took his 
internship in Boston and has had 
psychiatric training at Western 
Psychiatric Institute in Pittsburgh 
and at the Hospital of the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania and the 
Institute of the Pennsylvania Hos
pital in Philadelphia.
His psychoanalytic training was j 
taken through the Philadelphia , 
[Continued on page SJ |
Dorm Party
Everone is invited to the 
Men and Womens Dorm 
Council party which will be 
held in the Morewood Gar
dens recreation room on Sun
day, April 3, from 7:30 p.m. 
to' 10:30 p.m. Two hours of 
entertainment by a profes
sional hypnotist will be fol
lowed by dancing and free re
freshments.
Graduation Fees
All graduation fees are pay
able in the Office of the Reg
istrar by April 1. This applies 
to all candidates for degrees 
Bachelor, Master and Doctor 
at the June Commencement.
The $25.00 deposit pending 
the publication of the disser
tations of doctoral candidates 
is also due on April 1. This 
deposit should be paid to Mr. 
Claney in the Office of the 
Controller.
Belkin, Barclay 
To Appear On TV 
Student Program
Jack Belkin and John Barclay 
will appear on Pitts panel TV 
show on WQED for four Wed
nesdays next month: April 6, 13, 
20, and 27, from 9:00 to 9:30 p.m.
The students will appear with 
two Pitt students on a panel show, 
the purpose of which is to pro
vide opportunities for students to 
question various well - known 
guests. A moderator will introduce 
the panel and the guest, and the 
panelists will question the guest.
Viewers are urged to telephone 
the TV station if they have ques
tions they would like the guest 
to answer. The program is de
signed to be informational and 
educational, rather than to foster 
argument.
Two or the guesvs Tor April 
include Sir Pierson Dickson, sen
ior British delegate to the United 
Nations; and Congressman Fulton 
of Pennsylvania.
Mr. Belkin, a junior in the me
chanical engineering department, 
has been debating for three years 
and is now captain of the Debat
ing Society. He is a native of 
Pittsburgh and a graduate of Pea
body High School. Mr. Barclay, 
a senior in the chemistry depart
ment has also been active in de
bate for three years. Also a native 
of Pittsburgh, he is a graduate of 
Taylor Alderdice High School.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 29, 1955
Southern Star Barbecue
5185 BROWNSVILLE ROAD 
Six Miles From Liberty Tubes
ot^ine and c^t^ance 
Regis King's Orchestra Friday and Saturday
Telephone: OLYMPIA 5-9963
MANAGEMENT JOBS!
If youre graduating this year 
you may qualify for this unusual offer
The opportunityTo join a few men in a training program 
which will prepare you for a place in management with a 
growing organization that must maintain the highest 
type of intelligent administration. It is an opportunity in 
management operations in the Home Office rather than 
sales or sales management.
The jobIf you are selected to join us, you will spend your * 
first eight months in comprehensive training designed to 
qualify you as a Company management consultant. You 
will be trained in procedure analysis, production planning, 
management surveys, quality control, cost control, con
ference leadership, public relations, report writing, inter
viewing technique, and life insurance principles.
The futureImmediately following completion of training 
you will be assigned to consulting work within our Home 
Office organization. There you will be expected to develop 
ideas for the improvement of the day-to-day organization 
of the Company.
The salaryThe starting salary compares favorably with 
those of other organizations. In addition, all of our per
sonnel receive regular medical and dental examinations 
and luncheon in the Companys lunch rooms at the 
Companys expense. We also maintain a well-rounded 
insurance and retirement program for our personnel and 
their dependents.
The requirementsPersonality, appearance, creative ability 
and initiative are essential qualities. Evidence of leadership 
as demonstrated in scholastic and extra-curricular activities 
is considered important in the selection of qualified men. 
Preference is given to those who hold r graduate degree in 
industrial engineering or business administration.
If the facts in this brief description interest you, write 
directly to Management Education, Coordination Divi
sion, Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, New York.
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
1 Madison Avonu New York 10, N. Y.
Piano Concert 
Mon., April 4
Florida Visitor
To Arch Dept.
Professor P. M. Torraca, of the 
department of architecture, the 
University of Florida, visited the 
Carnegie department of archi
tecture from March 21 thru 23.
He was part of a jury that re
viewed work of the junior year 
students currently engaged in the 
study of a public school project. 
Professor Torraco, well known 
writer in matters of public school 
programming and planning, also 
lectured to architecture students 
concerning present-day design
1. SO BRIGHT in its honest, ever-fresh taste.
2. SO BRIGHT in its brisk, frosty sparkle.
3. SO BRIGHT in the bit of quick energy it brings you.
ftOTTlEO UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COIA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY OF PITTSBUEGH 
5721 Center Avenue HHani 1'Wll
"Cot*" k  r*git*r*d trod*-mork.o LastS urd yeyvnyeiv yeg,vMc
Piano concertos of Beethoven, 
Schumann, Mozart and Chopin 
will be featured at the Program ! 
of Concertos presented by piano 
majors in Exhibition Hall at 8:30 
on Monday evening, April 4.
The student symphony orchestra 
conducted by Samuel Thaviu, as
sociate professor of violin, will 
assist the student piano soloists 
in rendering the works of the 
masters.
Babins To Perform 
At Symphony This 
Coming Weekend
Voted by many critics the most 
interesting of the two-piano 
teams, Vronsky and Babin, who 
will be the soloists, with the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra, Wil
liam Steinberg conducting, Friday 
evening and Sunday afternoon, 
April 1 and 3, at Syria Mosque, 
continue to roll up impressive 
global tours annually.
The Babins, who are man and 
wife, are explorers not only of the 
far reaches of the concert giving 
world, but of the material they 
use in their extensive repertoire. 
This time Arthur Benjamins 
North American Square Dance 
will be heard here in its initial 
concert performance. Matched 
with it will be Mozarts Concerto 
for Two Pianos and Orchestra in 
F Major.
William Steinberg, Pittsburghs 
great musical director and con
ductor, will be making a home
coming after six weeks guest con
ducting in Europe. He will greet 
his audiences with the Haydn 
Symphony No. 102. For the con
cert closing, Dr. Steinberg has 
chosen Saint Saens Carnival of
the Animals with lyrics by witty 
Ogden Nash to be read by Henry 
Boettcher, Carnegie Techs gifted 
Head of the Drama Department.
In this program, the Orchestra 
presents its eighteenth pair of 
concerts in the current season. In 
the two consecutive master-pianist Solomon and Bachs immortal ' 
B minor Mass will be heard. The 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra is 
your orchestra: hear it now!
Soda. This year the choreographers are Teena Stern and Barbara 
Hall.
Hall and Stern Direct 
Dancing in SnS Show
By Pat Mitchell
With choreography by Teena Stem and Barb Hall, there is 
bound to be dancing that will appeal to both the classicist and the 
modernist in the opening audience of Adults Only.
Teena, although she admits there is a lot to be said for the freedom 
of movement in modern dance,* 
definitely prefers the classical bal
let. Even though strictly technical
ballet is impossible in a college 
show, Teenas love of the classical 
is sure to show through in the 
longer dance sequences.
Barb
Barb Hall, on the other hand, 
prefers modem interpretations 
and peppy musical comedy danc
ing to the classical although she 
has had extensive training in 
technical work since she was 
twelve. She worked with Karl 
Heinreich, Pittsburghs first ballet 
master, and Jeanne Ralph, 
a former Tech dramat. At one 
time, Barb even conducted a 
ballet school for children in her 
home town of Library, Pennsyl
vania. In fact, it was her dancing 
that first introduced her to the 
theater, which she plans to make 
her career.
Barbara, a senior drama student, 
is at present making quite a hit 
with audiences and critics alike 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse in 
The Little Hut, a provocative 
French import that runs until 
April 16. Barb first danced with 
Scotch and Soda her sophomore 
year, and last year helped Teena 
with the choreography for One 
in a Million.
Teena
Teena has been dancing since 
she was three. Teena thought she 
would make it her career until 
she went to New York to study 
and saw what the life of a danger 
was. From then on, dancing w^s 
strictly a hobby although Teena 
continued to dance professionally 
in summer civic operas and con
certs.
This is Teenas third year 
working on the choreography for 
Scotch and Soda. Her freshman 
year, she got the job accidentally 
when Bill Smith, a senior drama 
student, requested some help. 
Now she wouldnt give it up for 
the world. As she says in her 
southern drawl, and Barb Hall 
agrees with her, Its so much fun 
working with kids from all the 
departments to produce the 
show.
Herbert Hosking 
To Speak Before 
International Club
The Carnegie Tech Internation
al Club will hold its next meet
ing on Thursday, March 31, at 
8:00 p.m., in the Carnegie Union.
Mr. Herbert W. Hosking, guest 
speaker, will talk on Australia 
today. Mr. Hosking was born in 
Australia and graduated from 
Newcastle N.S.W. Technical Col
lege in 1946. He did further re
search work, and in 1954 he came 
to Carnegie Tech to work for his 
Ph.D. degree in metallurgy.
First on the program will be 
Ann Mick, senior piano student, 
playing Beethovens Concerto No. 
3 in C Minor. Schumanns con
certo in A Minor, Opus 54 will be 
given by senior Wayne Galbraith, 
the Mozart concerto by Henry 
Spinelli, also a senior, and 
Chopins Concerto No. 2, in F 
Minor, Opus 21, will be rendered 
by Dania Dorram, a senior from 
the state of Israel.
Buhl Planetarium 
Presents Show, 
Dawn of Easter
Buhl Planetarium began its an
nual Easter pageant, Dawn of 
Easter, last Sunday, March 27. In 
this sky show ,the drama of the 
rebirth of life unfolds under the 
recreated skies of ancient Pales
tine. The presentation, regarded 
as a traditional springtime event 
in Western Pennsylvania, presents 
a portrayal of a Roman soldier 
who narrates the story of Easter. 
In addition to the spring con
stellations and the Easter full 
moon, Dawn of Easter explains 
the interesting astronomical rea
sons that cause Easter to fall on 
differtn dates in different years. 
Planetarium sky shows are pre
sented at 2:15 and 8:30 p.m. Mon
day through Saturday: 2:15, 4:15, 
and 8:30 p.m. Sunday. A special 
Childrens Sky Show is presented 
every Saturday at 11:00 a.m.
50 million 
times a day 
at home, at work 
or while at play
Theres 
nothing 
like 
a
The Babins
At Symphony

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 29, 1955CARNEGIE TARTAN Pae 1
On Campuswith
Mochulman
(Author of "Barefoot Boy with Cheek eie.)
FOR BETTER OR FOR WORSE
The first thought that comes into our minds upon entering 
college is, of course, marriage. But how many of us go about 
seeking mates, as I like to call them, in a truly scientific manner? 
Not many, you may be sure. Most of us simply marry the first 
person who comes along. This can lead to unpleasant conse
quences, especially if the person we marry is already married.
Let us today make a scientific survey of the three principle 
causes of marriage-homogamy, personality need, and propin
quity. We will examine these one at a time.
Homogamy means the attraction of like for like. In marriage 
it is rarely opposites which attract; the great majority of people 
choose mates who resemble themselves in taste, personality, 
outlook, and, perhaps most important of all, cultural level. 
Take, for example, the case of two students of a few years 
ago named Anselm Glottis and Florence Catapult. Anselm fell 
madly in love with Florence, but she rejected him because she 
was majoring in the Don Juanian Poets and he was in the lowly 
school of forestry. After graduation Anselm got a job as a 
forest ranger. Still determined to win Florence, he read every 
single Don Juanian Poet cover to cover while sitting in his 
lookout tower.
His plan, alas, miscarried. Florence, sent on a world cruise 
as a graduation present, picked up the betel nut habit in the 
Indies. Today, a derelict, she keeps body and soul together by 
working as a sampan off Mozambique. And Anselm, engrossed 
in the Don Juanian Poets, failed to notice a forest fire which 
destroyed 29,000,000 acres of second growth blue spruce. Today, 
a derelict, he teaches Herrick and Lovelace at the Connecticut 
School of Mines.
The second reason why people marry, personality need, means 
that you often choose a mate because he or she possesses certain 
- qualities that complete and fulfill your own personality. Take, 
for instance, the case of Alanson Duck. As a freshman, Alanson 
made a fine scholastic record, played varsity lacrosse, and was 
very popular with his fellow students. Yet Alanson was not 
happy. There was something lacking in his life, something vague 
and indefinable that was needed to make his personality complete.
Then one day Alanson discovered what it was. As he was 
walking out of his class in Flemish pottery, a fetching coed 
named Grace Ek offered him a handsome brown package and 
said, Philip Morris?
Yes! he cried, for all at once he knew what he had been 
needing to round out his personalityth& gentle fulfillment of 
Philip Morris Cigarettes, the soul-repairing mildness of their 
vintage tobaccos, the balm of their unparalleled taste, the ease 
and convenience of their bonny brown Snap-Open pack. Yes,
I will take a Philip Morris! cried Alanson. And I will also 
take you to wife if you will have me!
La! she exclaimed, throwing her apron over her face, but 
after a wnile she removed it and they were married. Today they 
live in Prince Rupert, British Columbia, where Alanson is with 
an otter glazing firm and Grace is a bookie.
Propinquity, the third cause of marriage, means closeness. Put 
a boy and a girl in a confined space for a long period and they 
will almost surely get married. A perfect example is the case of 
Fafnir Sigafoos. While a freshman at Louisiana State, he was 
required to crawl through the Big Inch pipeline as part of his 
fraternity initiation. He entered the pipe at Baton Rouge. As 
he passed Lafayette, Ind., he was agreeably surprised to be 
joined by a comely girl named Mary Alice Isinglass, a Purdue 
freshman, who had to crawl through the Big Inch as part of her 
sorority initiation. When they emerged from the pipeline at 
Burlington, Vermont, they were engaged, and, after a good hot 
bath, they were married. Today they live in Klamath Falls, Ore., 
where Fafnir is in the weights and measures department and 
Mary Alice is in the roofing game. They have three children, 
all named Norman. Ma* shuiman. 1955
For your enjoyment the makerg of Philip Morris have prepared a 
handsome, illustrated booklet called MAX SHULMAN REVISITED, 
containing a selection of the best of these columns. Get your copy, 
absolutely free, with the purchase of a couple packs of Philip Morris 
at your favorite tobacco counter Hurry! The supply is limited.
Television Station To Resume
IPolitical Discussion Series
WQED has resumed Its Your Politics on Thursdays, through 
May 19, at 9 p.m.
Dr. William J. Keefe, Chairman, department of political science, 
Pennsylvania College for Women, and Df. William C. Seyler, Direc
tor of the Citizenship Clearing ?
House of Western Pennsylvania,
University of Pittsburgh, will 
^moderate. The subjects they will 
deal with are:
I. The Legislative Process
State Level, with guests 
State Democratic Senator 
Ted Schmidt, and 
State Republican Senator 
Roland Mahaney
II. The Legislative Process
National Level, with 
guests Congressman 
James Fulton (Republi
can), and
Congressman Wayne j be 
Hayes (Democrat)
Ift
Senator Robert Miller, 
and State Republican 
Senator Robert Fleming
IV. Pennsy lvania Plan  
(Plan for changes in se
lection of Judges for the 
bench), with guests At
torney Ella Graubert
V. The Election Process  
The, Primaries, with 
guest Will AltonDirec
tor of Department of Elec
tions
These discussion programs will 
filmed and made available, 
* free of charge, to schools and orQuentin Holtz, 
Ex-Football Star, 
Killed In Crash
On March 20 an American Air
lines airplane crashed to earth 
near Springfield, Mo., and among 
those listed as dead was Quent 
Holtz, former Tech quarterback 
who led the 50 and 51 teams.
After gradu
ation in June 
195 2, Quent g|g 
went to work II 
for Gulf Oil as || 
a research enH 
gineer, and he 
was on a busi
ness trip for 
that company 
when he was 
killed.
Quent, a member of 
Kappa Sigma fraternity, received 
two letters for football and was a 
very accurate passer and smart 
ballplayer. His clever ballhandling 
and bullet passes' got Tech out 
of many rough spots through the 
50 and 51 seasons.
Science Club Tea 
Will Be Wednesday
The Science Club will hold its 
annual tea for its members and 
for members of the science faculty 
on Wednesday, March 30, 1955 in 
Carnegie Union.
Last year the faculty presented 
a skit entitled Life at Morewood, 
and this year the club members 
are presenting a skit written by 
Lois Griffin and Joan Grasmick. 
Members of the cast are Joan 
Grasmick, Nancy Tresky, Marty 
McCleery, and Marion Briggs.
Nancy Bloom, vice president of 
the club is in charge of the event. 
The rest of the party is under the 
supervision of Joyce Innes, who is 
making favors, and Maryann Mikan, treasurer, who planned the 
refreshments.
LITTLI MAN ON CAMPUSby Dick Bibler
III. Issues __ State, with ganizations through the Film Li
uests .State Democrat 1 brary of P.C.W.
Printers To Hold 
Discussion Series 
Here This Summer
The first all-graphic-arts-industry Conference on Printing Edu
cation is to be held here on 
Thursday, July 7.
This meeting will be part of the 
30th Annual Conference on Print
ing Education sponsored jointly, 
by the International Graphic Arts 
Education Association and the 
Education Council of the Graphic 
Arts Industry during the week of 
July 3 to 8, 1955. Featured speak
ers will be Honorable Raymond 
Blattenberger, Public Printer of 
the United States, William H. Wal
ling, President, Printing Industry 
of America, and Harry L. Gage, 
Consultant, Mergenthaler Lino
type Company, New York.
One of the sessions will be de
voted to a discussion of recruit
ment and selection programs for 
the graphic arts industry for both 
small and large printing plants. 
A report will be submitted during 
this session on the use of the apti
tude tests being developed speci
fically for the printing industry 
by the U. S. Department of Labor 
in conjunction with Printing In
dustry of America by Dr. B. 
Dvorak, Head, Testing Division, 
Bureau of Employment Security, 
U. S. Dept, of Labor.
TrainingPrograms
Another session will be devoted 
to presentation of case histories 
of in-plant and local associationconducted training programs, and 
will be followed by reports of 
pi'ogress by th chairman of the 
various committees of the Educa
tional Council.
On the two days preceding the 
all-industry meeting, the Inter
national Graphic Arts Education | 
Association has scheduled a series 
of technical sessions to be held 
in the printing department classI rooms and shops. A total of 16 j 
: technical sessions covering proI 
; duction and teaching techniques j 
j in letterpress and offset printing, 
j hand and machine composition,
: and design will be held under the j 
chairmanship of Professor Homer 
I E. Sterling.
Now that you have exchanged and graded papersdo we have 
anyone who made a 100?
Religious Program
Tuesday, March 29, 1955
The Lutheran Student Association will hold a dinner meeting 
at 6:00 p.m. Pastor Earl Knaus and a student panel will discuss 
The Meaning of Worship. Recreation will follow from 8:30 to 
11:00.
The Westminster Fellowship dinner meeting will be at the Bellefield Presbyterian Church at 5:30 p.m.
Wednesday, March 30, 1955
The Wesley Fellowship dinner will be held at the Pitt Cafeteria 
at 6:00 p.m. followed by an Easter service at the Asbury Methodist 
Church at 7:00 p.m.
Teknon Clubs dinner meeting will be at the Shadyside Pres
byterian Church at 5:30 p.m. Mrs. R. W. Markus, Professor of Psy
chology at P. C. W., will speak on marriage.
Thursday, March 31, 1955
Roger Williams Fellowship will hold a student dinner meeting 
at 6:00 p.m. at the First Baptist Church. The cost is $.75. Mary 
Kay Mosely will lead a student discussion Meditation, Prayer, and 
Discipline. Dinner reservations may be made by calling MA 1-7821.
The Student Christian Federation worship service will be at the 
Emmaus Chapel, Canterbury House from 12:30 to 1:00 p.m. Lunch 
will follow the service.
Sunday, April 3, 1955
The YMCA-YWCA Campus Forum dinner meeting and discus
sion will be held from 5:00 to 7:00 p.m. at the Union.
Father Zell of St. Marys Memorial Chapel will speak on Com
munion of Saints at the Canterbury Club at 7:30 p.m.
Carnegie Students 
To Defend Project
Two Carnegie Tech students 
and William R. Taaffe, associate 
professor of industrial administra
tion, addressed the convention 
of the Folding Paper Box Associa
tion of America in Chicago, 
March 29.
Prentiss Taaffe and Harold R. 
Pinchin, printing managements 
students, defended a project 
which students worked out last 
semester under the guidance of 
Professor Taaffe on the financing 
and construction of a plant to pro
duce folding paper boxes. The 
students illustrated their talks
with architectural plans for the 
factory drawn by Carnegie Tech 
I architectural students. They also 
showed a three dimension model 
; and slides illustrating operations, 
1 flow of material, and financing.
Pi Mu Epsilon
There will be an open meet
ing of Pi Mu Epsilon 4:30 p.m. 
April 5, in EH 1112. Dr. S. De 
Benedetti of the physics de
partment will be the guest 
speaker. His topic will be 
Representation of Functions 
in Hibert Space.
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Day Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES
CAMPUS CLEANERS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 29, 1955
Editorial
Alpha Phi Omega
In looking over the various honoraries that exist on 
campus it is invigorating to see one organization that is 
doing a good job in serving the school and fellow students. 
This year, as always, Alpha Phi Omega is againg doing an 
excellent job.
Beginning during the first week of school, the APO 
committee worked conscientiously at copyreading, checking, 
and proof-reading (which required painstaking accuracy); 
they also assisted in the binding and selling of the C 
Book. When the new dorms were completed and many stu
dents moved, APO was again on the job and compiled a 
supplement. The result was a non-profit, accurate guide to 
all Carnegie students at an early date.
Even an abbreviated list of their projects is impressive. 
In addition to the C book they have conducted elections, 
helped with the Campus Chest campaigns, checked coats 
and sold refreshments at dances, and plan to hold the food 
concessions at Spring Carnival.
This year marks the thirtieth anniversary of the APO 
national organization and its twenty-sixth term on the Car
negie Tech campus. Besides being the most active CIT 
honorary, the organization performs many services for the 
Boy Scouts and allied groupsin fact this is supposed to 
be its main function. But APO has taken the phrase serv
ice to the school to heart.
Dance Band
Beginning with Homecoming this year and coming to a 
climax this Spring Carnival, the clamor of the student body 
for name bands at major all-school dances has steadily in
creased. Dissatisfaction with the bands at all school func
tions can be heard discussed over a cup of coffee in Skibo.
Ordinarily, so large a representation of students would 
be good enough for Spring Carnival committee to plan on 
having a name band. However, there was no indication of 
whether students would be willing to go as high as neces
sary.
What most people fail to realize is the fact that the 
ticket for the Friday and Saturday dances is the only real 
source of income for the Spring Carnival committee. It 
must therefore pay all expenses incurred throughout the 
long weekend.
Probably the two biggest drawbacks which the com
mittee in charge of the dance face are the tremendous taxes, 
both federal and city, and the limited capacity of the gym, 
which is 750 couples at the most. If the taxes were lower, 
and the committee could sell 1000 tickets, then there would 
be no difficulty in offering a name band at a reasonable price.
Another factor is that the band contracts are written in 
such a manner that the band can cancel an engagement up 
to two weeks of the event. This has Jiappened several times 
at Tech in the last two years when name bands had been 
booked. Also, the price of top-flight bands has gone up 
considerably over past years.
All this discussion is merely to point out the difficulties 
that the committee in charge of Spring Carnival encounters 
in planning the biggest campus weekend of the year. In all 
probability, the students will be able to dance to one of the 
leading bands in the nation next May, even though the price 
may have to be between four and five dollars a ticket.
OFFICES: Camegie Union. 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312, for advertising and subscription rates 
call MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology. Pittsburgh 13. Pa.
Editor-in-chief .....................................................................................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor .................................................................................................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager ....................................................................................................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor  .................... ............... ................................ ...........................jc Forsythe
News Editor ............................................................. ........... ..............June SochatoffSports Editor ..............................................................................................................Lenny Feldman
Copy EditorBob Russell. Advertising ManagerMarty Ostroff. Assistant 
Buniness ManagerVic Shiry. Circulation ManagerDon Gross. Office Manager
Joyce Wright. Photography EditorBarbara Toia. Features EditorJoe Szwec. 
ReportersMarilyn Casey, Stephanie Mackay Anne Mehler, Pat Mitchell, Dottie 
Scarf, Joanne Babbitt, Marjo King, Arthur Marino, Barbara Robeson, Carolou 
Fidder. Sally Day. Peggy Heath. Dolores Chidester. Evelyn Alessio. Janet Bishop, 
Kay Melenyzer, Juli Wehousie. Sports StaffJames Lacey. Art StaffCarolyn 
-opp, Harold MacDonald, Robert Connell. Make-Up StaffTom Wright, Jack 
Seeker, Paul Doebler, Hayden Duensing. Advertising StaffRobert Sorkin, Harly 
Bembach. Frank Zonis. Herbert Kriendler.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
ttsburgh. Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rate 
postage provided foT in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated College Pres*
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc., College 
Alishers representative, 420 Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscriptions *1.1 
 year.
The Kitchen 
Sink
And thus, as the Chariot Driver guides his gold
en orb over the deep indigo horizon of night, we 
bid a fervent farewell to exiting, exotic Las Vegas, 
Nevada. Cant you just see it all now? Over to 
the left is Cecil B. DeMille, on location. And, to 
the right: The artist we cherishMaxfield Parish. 
I suppose Pieter Breugel, The Elder, is down there 
painting some sort of Peasant Dance for posterity. 
Chawming, eh wot? You mean to say you dont 
like this kind of writing? Sorry . . . Sex, anyone?
If youre going to sit there and read this so 
quietly, I wont tell you the funny stuff. Its like 
this: I ought to be studying for an exam right
now. Silly, isnt it? After all, how is a guy sup
posed to be creative, and come up with little crystiline gems, when hes got to worry about such 
menial items as grades and stuff? Life gets mighty 
tedious, dont it?
Rise above it all. Throw off those timeless 
feters of scholarship. Be a man. Be bigger than 
it all. The Army isnt that bad. Where else could 
you loll around in bed until five in the morning? 
Like man, its the greatest! Goode ole home cook
ing where ever you go. Your coffee just the way 
you like itsoft and chewy. Think of the thrill 
when they shout out your name at mail call! But 
that wouldnt compare to the excitement on hearing 
WRCT in Koreaon its fifteenth harmonic.
But of course, if youre too busy nowadays to 
join Uncle Sams Fighjtingest group, you can 
always make a deal with your draft board. Tell 
them you want to go to every other war. Im not 
worried. Some people have an unlisted telephone 
number. Ive got an unlisted Draft Number.
With a dashUncle Mash 
(Whos been 1-A too long)
Over The 
Skibo Table
By Joseph A. Szewc
And theyre off and running. The Carnegie Tech 
trackmen have taken to the cinder path once again 
in an effort to extend their win streak of 29 dual 
meets which has been compiled over a four year 
period. Individual stars such as Roger Coyle, John 
Mueller, and Mai Gillies return to the squad but 
depth is needed in all events and all positions for 
the traveling squad ore still open. Coach Bob Car
man, who won the Senior AMA two mile run in the 
record time of 9:36 at Shoonmaker Hall on Satur
day, will gladly welcome any thinclad who can run, 
jump, or throw.
Little Quickies: Quote of the week: Culture is 
what your junkman would have if he decided to be 
a collector . . . Facts to help you on pop quizzes: 
Florida, scientists reported that they were unable 
to find the reason why the spadefoot toad breeds 
only during hurricanes . . . Push buttom boom: 
Toothpaste and pancake batter may be among the 
next batch of products that will appear in aerosol 
containers this year . . . Did you know that Spiegel's 
catalogue, along with fashions and furnishings, list 
the following as live merchandise:
1) Monkeys in a choice of three colors
2) Raccoon cubs
3) Black swans
4) Chinese nightingales
5) Descented baby skunks, bees, etc.
* * *
Rumor has it that all is not well in Margaret 
Morrison Camegie College. Many of the girls feel 
that if they are to be trained as professional 
women and are to have -a professional arttitude that 
they should be treated as professional women and 
not as grade school children. Many of the girls have 
also expressed a desire for a cut system in terms of 
unexcused absences and lates rather than risking 
their fate to the mood of an instructor. Oh well, 
great philosophers have said that no one is as 
critical of a woman as another woman.
* * *I
Spring is here, and rather than quote all the 
sayings that begin with In the spring a young 
mans fancy a new and original poem has been 
written for the occasion.
Spring in Schenley 
Here in Schenley neath the trees 
Sit two lovers touching knees.
Holding hands, he steals a kiss;
And she gives forth a sigh of bliss.
And a small child stops and stares.
* * *
The soft wind blows caressing her cheeks.
The boy holds all the love she seeks.
She lays her head upon his chest
WRCT 
SCHEDULE
Tuesday
7:30 a.m.Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.World and
Campus News
7:00 p.m.Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.Adventures in 
Research 
7:30 p.m.Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.Kiltie Band 
Concert 
9:00 p.m.-Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.Night Train 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Wednesday
7:30 a.m.Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.World and
Campus News 
9:00 a.m.Sign Off
7:00 p.m.Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.U. S. Navy Band 
7:30 p.m.Encore 
8:00 p.m.Greek Sing 
9:00 p.m.Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.Night Train 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Thursday
7:30 a.m.Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.World and
Campus News 
9:00 a.m.Sign Off
7:00 p.m.Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.Guest Star 
7:30 p.m.Radio Federation' 
8:00 p.m.Ye Old Curiosity 
Shoppe 
9:00 p.m.Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.Music You Want 11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.Night Train 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Friday
7:30 a.m.Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.World and
Campus News 9:00 a.m.Sign Off
7:00 p.m.Sign Orf, News 
7:15 p.m.Serenade in Blue 
7:30 p.m.Radio Federation 
8:00 p.m.Musical World 
9:00 p.m.Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.Music You Want 
11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.TGIF Club 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Saturday
7:30 a.m.Music in the 
Morning 
8:00 a.m.World and
Campus News 
9:00 a.m.Sign Off
3:00 p.m.Matinee 
6:00 p.m.670 Club 
* 7:00 p.m.News 
7:15 p.m.670 Club 
9:00 p.m.Reverie 
11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.Reverie 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Sunday
1:45 p.m.Sign On, News 
2:00 p.m.Show Time ,"3:00 p.m.Sunday Pops 
Concert 5:30 p.m.Proudly We Hafl 6:00 p.m.News 
6:05 p.m.Album of Favorite* 
7:00 p.m.Penthouse 
Serenade 8:00 p.m.Freelance 
8:30 p.m.Concert Hall 11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.Night Train 11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Monday
7:30 a.m.Music in the Morning 
8:00 a.m.World and
Campus News 
9:00 a.m.Sign Off
7:00 p.m.Sign On, News 
7:15 p.m.Interlude 
7:30 p.m.Radio Federation 8:00 p.m.211 Club 
8:30 p.m.Magterworks from 
France 9:00 p.m.Career Hour 
10:00 p.m.Music You Want 11:00 p.m.News 
11:05 p.m.Night Train 
11:55 p.m.Sign Off
Torn Tickets
Dear Ed:,
I am an irate commuter clutching two parking 
tickets in my moist hand. Two tickets which I 
received over a period of three days. Sure I was 
parked on the yellow line. My heavens, where 
else am I supposed to parkdown by the bar
racks? Sure I will and then Ill be late to all of 
my classes, and now Im not allowed to be late 
because of a little code of laws passed by the home 
economics department. Get up earlier you say? 
When I go to bed at 4:30 and 5:00 in the morning, 
Ill be darned if Im going to get up 15 minute*
earlier just to walk a long block in the beating
rain in order to make an 8:30 class and avoid 
getting a parking ticket.
Anyhow, parking in the barracks is hard on 
me psychologically. Every time I see those ridicu
lous yellow lines stretching half way up Tech 
street and all the way down Margaret Morrison 
Street, I do a fast bum and whip my car right in
front of the yellow demons. If I park in the bar
racks, I will have* suppressed emotional desires to 
defy the yellow line. There must be an answer 
somewhere. Some one suggested roof top parking 
on AH and the Gym. Why not just paint all the 
yellow lines black? I dont know.
How about all irate commuters clutching tick
ets in their moist hands signing a petition? Any
thingbut good heavenslets not let this thing 
rest. The policemen are raising enough money for 
five circuses. How about the commuters (people 
on campus are welcome too) raising a loud enough 
rumble to extinguish all those silly yellow lines 
and all those expensive parking tickets.
Sincerely,
An Irate Commuter.
P.S.It is requested that you do not sign my 
name, for I am also an irate home economics stu
dent, ^put lets not let the department know it.
Editor's Note: While we are complaining about 
parking situation around campus we would like to 
throw in a word or two concerning the condition of 
the parking lot adjoining the cut. That lot is full of 
ruts and chuckholesso full that its a wonder more 
springs havent been broken and more tow trucks 
called to dislodge parked cars from the mudholes. 
Something should be done about this and done in a 
hurry!
And closes her eyes in comforting rest. 
And an old man looks and smiles.
* * *
She runs her hand through his hair, 
And always wishes hell ever be there 
To hold her close with tender yearning, 
To satisfy a love thats burning.
And the park cops break it up.

---------------------------------------------------

^fARLWS^OSDICK
BEFORE I -C^oCKle.'- 
BACK UP - WHAT'S 
VOUR LAST REQUEST 
a FOSDICK? m------TRY NOT " TO WRINKLE MY NEW , SUIT"
Tuesday, March 29, 1955CARNEGIE TARTAN Page 1
By LENNY FELDMANSporfocope
The Ides of March brings all sorts of activity to the 
Skibo bowl, in fact, more than it can adequately handle. 
With the opening track meet only one week &way, one should 
imagine that the cindermen would be going at full blast to 
prepare for it. But a last look at the bowl showed not the 
track team but the football team going through their paces.
This situation has presented a number of problems such 
as trying to coordinate the activities of the field men and 
the football team. IVtost of the field men have been getting 
out before the gridders to avoid complications, but there still 
are a number of javelin and discus throwers taking aim at 
Coach Bakers boys. This could get to be dangerous. A few 
years back, at one of the nearby schools an innocent by
stander, who certainly was not in the line of flight as the 
gridders are, was struck by a javelin.
Arrangements should be made for the spear-men to 
practice before the football team comes out, or to have use 
of some other parcel of ground, possibly the cut.
Condition of Field
For the second time in as many years, the cindermen 
have been forced to practice on a track that is full of ruts 
and bad turns, which could prove very injurious to track
men. The Tech track team has already had one of its mem
bers injured on a bad track, a fact worthy of consideration 
by the maintenance crew. So far this year the pole vaulters 
have not been able to work out due to the extremely bad 
condition of the runway. The same has been true of the high 
jumpers. Its not enough to have the track in good shape 
for the meets; it should be in just as good a condition for 
the team to practice on.
Along the same train of thought of maintenance of 
playing fields, a last look at the condition of the intramural 
playing fields showed that'
they were in need of some 
attention. These fields are in 
as miserable condition as they 
were last year. Right after the 
boys get through digging up 
the divots during the soccer 
season the maintenance crew 
should rake up both the soc
cer fields and the cut.
Editors Note: See cartoon on 
page 6.
PATRONIZE
Our Advertisers
Track Season Begins
Carmans Thinclads To Seek *---------------
5th Straight Undefeated Season
By Dick Swaney
For two weeks the Tartan thinclads have been prepping 
for their first dual meet with the Jeannette Harriers, a highly 
touted running club composed of former district and Olympic 
stars. Featuring the meet will be a contest between Mai 
Gillies and Coach Bob Carman,?---------------------------------------------------
which undoubtedly will be a sizz
ling mile run. Bob turned in a 
4:20.9 performance last Saturday 
at the Pitt fieldhouse. Gillies is 
running much better than last sea
son and appears headed for his 
best year. The Youngstown star is 
this years captain and is finishing 
up a fine career at Tech.
The burden of the Skibo at
tack will again be upon the shoul
ders of John Muller and Ward 
Jones. Muller will be battling 
against Russ Thomas, former U.S. 
decathalon champion in the low 
and high hurdles as well as in the 
440 yard dash. Jones will face 
Thomas in the field events of the 
shot and discuss. Larry Bryant, 
a newcomer to the Plaid squad, 
will have a herculean task to 
perform in filling the shoes of 
Hap McDonald, one of Techs 
finest distance men. Also running 
the mile and two mile will be last 
years Ietterman Bill Bryant, a 
Monaca high product, who is ex
pected to chase Gillies in the dis
tance events.
Inexperienced Squad
Except for a few seasoned vet
erans, this years squad will be 
in experienced and lacking in 
depth. Although early season 
prospects looked promising, 
grades and in injuries have strip
ped the squad of some of its re
liable men. The other district 
schools Slippery Rock, Grove 
City, Geneva, and Westminster 
have been steadily improving and 
are likely to offer this years Skibos their stiffest competition in 
four seasons.
Two bright spots in this years 
dash department are Frank Smith, 
a freshman from Georgia and a 
fugitive from the football team, 
and Frank McCurdy, a Natrona, 
Pennsylvania architect. Last year 
McCurdy carried the brunt of the 
burden, but Smith is expected to 
lighten the load in the 100 and 
200 yard dash events.
The basketball team is also conMal Gillies, Techs star miler 
and captain of the 1955 Tartan 
track team.
tributing its share in the persons 
of Dick Fieler and A1 Frank, who 
are romping around in their long 
woolies. Dick will be running 
middle distance, while A1 will be 
concentrating on the high jump 
and broad jump events.
Although student attendance at 
the track meets has been below 
[Continued on page 6]
WELL, JUST IN CASE I DO -HERE'S _ Z9 CENTS J IFOR TH'29 CENTS'!JUST ENOUGH FOR A BOTTLE OF WILDROOT CREAM-OIL/:''-
KEEPS HAIR NEAT AND NATURAL..'' REMOVES LOOSE DANDRUFF. GET WILDROOT CREAM-OIL, u CHARLIEJ.rv' T
BUT, MV NAME IS ABDULLAHJrl
r TV ,ONLY CEAM-OIL6ROOMS AMO CONDmONS HAIR THE NATURAL WAV
For more pure pleasure... SMOfCE CAMELS#
No other cigarette is so rich-tasting
P.S. No other brand has ever been able to match the pure pleasure in Camel's exclusive 
blend of costly tobaccos  one of the reasons why Camels are America's most popular cigarette!
B. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., YV tattoo-Sla, N. Qlyet so mild!
When the campus queen beside you 
murmurs, "Gosh, I'll never pass!.. "
Then turns to you and whispers, 
"Will ^ou help me after class?"
M-m-man,
that's PURE PLEASURE!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 29, 1955
ROCKETS EDGE KAPPA SIGS
Action in the IM basketball championship won by the Rockets, 
49-48, Friday as part of the IM Nite activities.
Betas Win Rifle 
Crown With Score 
Of 1077 In Match
The intramural rifle matches 
were fired last Thursday after
noon, March 24 at the Carengie 
Tech riflerange in the bottom of 
Margaret Morrison. When the 
moke had cleared the team tro
phy went to Beta Theta Pi with 
1077 points. Second place went 
to the Obelisks with 1054 points. 
The final standings are:
Beta Theta Pi 1077
Obelisks 1054
Sigma Nu 1031
Phi Kappa * 1008
Kappa Sigma 901
Alpha Tau Omega 868
Delta Tau Delta 550
Individual scoring honors went 
to John Herr of the Beta team 
who fired 100 prone, 94 kneeling, 
and 95 standing. Jerry Swoboda 
was second high with 272.
School Champions 
Given Trophies At 
Intramural Night
Playing the girls version of 
basketball, and with boxing gloves 
on, the intramural board members 
gave the crowd a few laughs as 
they beat the WAA champs in an 
exhibition game preceding the IM 
basketball finals.
At halftime of the game Dick 
Fieler, president of the intramural 
board, presented trophies to the 
all-school champions. After the 
presentation there was a wrest
ling exhibition with George Bangs 
besting John Berkenkamp and 
Fields and Bisbey wrestling to a 
to a draw.
In a really thrilling game, the 
Rockets downed the Kappa Sigs, 
49-48, in the basketball finale. The
In a nip and tuck affair that was 
the main feature of Intramural 
Night last Friday, March 25 the 
Rockets edged out the Kappa Sigs 
in the last few seconds of play 
when Don Hrosik stole the ball and 
sent it through the hoop for the 
final basket and the game, 49-48.
The game began with Kappa 
Sig in full charge as they looked 
real tough taking most of the re
bounds off the backboards and 
with Jerry Bracken hitting from 
the side. But they failed to capi
talize on their breaks as the Rock
ets finally found the right com
bination and the range on the 
basket as they pulled ahead at the 
half 23-30, mainly on the rebound
ing of Chet Kolar and the shoot
ing of Don Hrosik.
Second Half
The second half found the Rock
ets maintaining their lead with 
Kolar and Hrosik doing most of 
the work and Dan Heep finding 
the range from the field. But the 
Kappa Sigs came fighting back 
with Bracken, Pascarella, and 
Kennedy sending them through the 
nets to finally overtake the Rock
ets and lead by one point with but 
seconds left in the game. A bad 
pass by a Kappa Sig ballplayer 
was intercepted by Hrosik and 
with the pass went the ball game.
Box Score:
KAPPASIGSROCKETSFGPFGPPascarella149! Kolar428Brown000Heep1715
Kennedy048Kemi000
Hyams327Kane000Bracken0714Hrosik2614
Saxton05 lOjHoey2512
Totals4 22 48Totals02049KappaSigs20 2848
Rockets23 2649
Rockets will meet the Pitt IM 
champs this Monday night.
In the waterpolo playoff the 
ATOs beat SN, 3-1, for the school 
championship.
Track
[Continued, from page 5] 
par for the past few seasons, it 
is hoped that, Techs impressive 
win streak of 29 straight dual meet 
victories, and the improved cali
bre of competition will once 
again draw the spectators.
Track Schedule
Apr. 2 * Jeannette Harriers 
Apr. 16 * Slippery Rock 
Apr. 23 Case 
Apr. 26 * Geneva 
Apr. 30 Groce City 
3 * W.&J.
Westminster 
Tri-State Meet at 
Mead vi lie
* Home meets
May 
May 10 
Mav 14
Golf
All those interested in com
ing: out for the golf team 
should stop in the athletic of
fice, get the necessary infor
mation, and fill out the re
quired forms. The season be
gins April 19.
The schedule is as follows: 
Apr. 19W. & J.
Apr. 26Grove City 
Apr. 29W. & J.
May 3Geneva 
May 10Duquesnc 
May 12Invitational Tourna
ment at Meadville 
May 13Westminster 
May 16Grove City 
May 20Pitt
Scholarships
Scholarship applications for 
financial assistance during the 
academic year 1955-1956 are 
now available in All 154. All 
applications are due by April 
1, 1955.
Extremely High Discounts and Trade In Allowances
ARRANGED FOR CARNEGIE TECH
Students and Faculty Members
On New 1955 Ford Automobiles and sed Cars of Every TypeCONTACT WALLY DONGHUE 
103 WELCH HALL BOX 337 CIT ML 3-0242
WHO ARE THE 
TOP-FUTE GOLFERS 
ON YOUR CAMPUS?
CUDDLE BRENCEL'S
DAVCISG TO JACK MAHON 
ORCHESTRA 
Fridays and Saturdays 
1216 Woods Run Ave.off Brighton Road
If youve watched them on 
the course, youve probably 
thought: Boy, if I could 
just get my game down like 
that!"
Constant practice is the answer, of course, but getting the best 
from your equipment is just as important, too.
Thats where Spalding TOP-FLITE clubs have the edge. 
They have more to offer in precision balance that gives an 
absolutely uniform swing-feel with every club in the matched set.
Thats the secret of Spalding SYNCHRO-DYNED clubs. 
And, it will pay off for you from the first round. Youll make 
the same shots with new uniformity. The perfect balance of 
these clubs lets you swing through the ball with confidence. 
Without choking-up or compensating. You get the ball 
away cleaner, longer, and with more shot control.
These are the clubs that have lowered handicaps by as much as 
Yil Spalding SYNCHRO-DYNED TOP-FLITE clubs. Your Golf 
pro has them now. And, nows the time for you to start playing 
better golf.
BarbWdel
SETS THE PACE IN SPORTS
Cloderickby McDonald
V iPn
Complications At Tech Bowl
A REAL
FUTURE
AWAITS YOU 
WITH A GROWING
Weapons System Organization
At TEMCO a two-fold opportunity awaits 
engineers, physicists and mathematicians 
who want to grow professionally.
First, the entire engineering department is organized 
under the systems concept. This necessitates the combined 
services of civil, electrical, mechanical and aeronautical 
engineers, physicists and mathematicians, all of whom will 
have the opportunity  indeed, will be required  to be
come familiar with all areas in the aeronautical science*. 
Highly specialized work will be demanded, of course, but 
it will be conducted within the stimulating framework of 
a broader background in related fields. Your opportunities, 
her, for professional growth are unlimited.
Second, TEMCO offers a Master Engineering Training 
Program designed to develop todays engineering grad
uates into the systems engineers of the future. This program 
includes a Graduate Study Plan leading to Master of Science 
degrees, and a Job Rotation Plan which permits you both 
to specialize without confinement and to diversify without 
lots of direction.
For further information pn the opportunities awaiting you 
in Systems Engineering at TEMCO, write I. Nevin Palley, 
Vice-President Engi
neering, TEMCO Air
craft Corp., P. O. Box 
<191, Dallas, Texas.
S.rfCt*FT
DALLAS rex At

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 29, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage 
jot iL'JM ... and 
$ got everything!
Super
Snooper
Phi Gamma Pi sorority held 
their regular meeting on Sunday 
afternoon, March 13, 1955. Plans 
were made for the forthcoming 
banquet to be held at the Gate
way PI. za on Saturday, May 28, 
1955. The main event of the evej 
ning will be a short visit to Ha: 
waii. Information as to the price, j 
time, menu, and entertainment j 
will follow in a subsequent article.  
Trouble is only opportunity 
in work clothes.
There were several new faces j 
at the Newman Club lecture on j 
Sunday, March 13. These includ
ed Ed Palo, Reynold Byrnes, Ross 
Klingensmith, Mike McGinnis, 
Betty Smaligo and Theresa Defino. Father Berkmyer gave a veryinteresting lecture on the subject 
Psychology of the Sexes. It was 
announced that election of officers 
will take place during the April 
3 meeting.
Do you realize that if it 
wasn't for marriage, hus
bands and wives would 
have to fight with strang
ers?
On March 23, the William 
Grolls were blessed with a little 
bundle from Heaven, namely 
( William Anthony. The proud 
i father, as many of you already 
j know, is President of the Evening 
i School Newman Club and treas! urer of the Student Council. Our 
congratulations to Bill and Do;lores.
Take time to live; it is the 
secret of success.
Take time for friendship; it 
is the source of happiness. 
Take time to laugh; it helps 
to lift lifes load.
r*pai-CoU Botiti! ., MMabarsfa 1, *.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS
 TRY US FIRST 
Oakland Hardware
3608 Forbes St. - MA l-02* Lioom* Mvo* h23mkm a
Entertainment, 
Prizes Obtained 
For Eng. Banquet
As previously reported by the 
entertainment committee, the Li
quid Airs have been tentatively 
booked for entertainment. The 
chairman and committee shall 
view their performance at. the 
Vogue Terrace on March 26. A 
firm contract shall be signed then 
if the committee is satisfied.
The replies to the requests for 
door prizes are mounting. The 
percentage of acceptances is very 
good. As a matter of fact, it is 
over 90 per cent. The large com
panies in particular have proven 
themselves very cooperative and 
some of the door prizes they have 
donated are really worth while. 
To illustrate this point, the Rem
ington Rand company has donated 
their electric shaver regularly 
priced at approximately $33.00. 
B. K. Elliott company has donated 
a beautiful Ortholog Slide Rule 
priced at approximately $25.00.
Again, we want to reiterate that 
the banquet shall be held at the 
most fashionable establishment in 
the Tri State area, namely the 
Gateway Plaza. The management 
of Gateway Plaza provides free 
parking after 6:00 p.m. This af
fair promises to be top event of 
our social schedule and a rather 
significant civic event, besides be
ing an alumnis reunion of even
ing school graduates.
Please secure your tickets early 
(We expect an early sellout) 
from Mr. McKelway in the Reg
istrars Office or from members of 
the Student Council.
Patronize 
Our Advertisers
tJi.. f)ft nn i *!
This page^edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .... :........ .................................................................... Dolores Neff
Circulation Editor ....................................................... .............. jim Soltis
Reporters..............Kathy Galligan, Frank Polma, John Van Holt, Jr.
Sigma Delta 
Phi
The underlying ideas and aims 
of this fraternity are to create a 
feeling of good fellowship, foster 
inter-group cooperation, encour
age and promote scholarship, and 
to encourage interest in campus 
affairs.
Sigma Delta Phi, a social fra
ternity, was organized fifteen
Man Most Likely To
Senior Pictures
Gimbels Photo-Reflex Stu
dio is offering all graduating 
seniors a free sitting in their 
cap and gown. No appoint
ment is necessary. To get the 
details, stop in the Admissions 
Office and pick up a certifi
cate which will entitle you to 
the free sitting.
McKelway, Night School 
Registrar, Is Featured
The distinction of being the first of a series of CIT personalities 
that will appear in this column in subsequent issues, goes to zalziel McKelway, Assistant Director of Evening Classes and Registrar 
of Evening Classes in Summer Session.
Mr. McKelway began his voca-4-------------------------______________
tion at Carnegie Tech in July,
1926 as assistant recorder of night 
school and became assistant to 
the registrar in 1929.
Maintaining student records and 
serving as student advisor is an 
exacting , and sometimes tiresome 
task, but in spite of it all, Mr. 
McKelway has always managed to 
remain calm, considerate, and sin
cere. No students problem is too 
small or unimportant because he 
feels that students will not ask 
advice or guidance on trivial mat
ters which they can best solve 
personally.
Mr. McKelway has been mar
ried for eighteen years and is the 
father of two daughters.
When asked what was his 
proudest accomplishment, he was 
neither vague or hesitant. At
tendance of 28 Engineer Ban
quets, was his reply.
Techs evening students are 
high in their praises of Mr. Mc
Kelway and he is certainly de
serving of the plaudits.
years ago, February 24, 1940, to 
be exact.
Being aware of the existing need 
for a unifying, close-knit union of 
students from the various sections 
and departments of CIT was the 
prime inspirational force that 
banded the original group towards 
their goal of organization.
Complying with Council ruling, 
the founders of the fraternity 
made application for sanction and 
permission to operate on the cam
pus. After completion of a pro
bationary period, the organization 
was granted full status.
New members are extended bids 
and pledged to the fraternity in 
the prescribed manner in vogue 
for social fraternities.
Social and business meetings are 
held every two weeks throughout 
the school year. Additional meet
ings are held whenever the occa
sion arises.
CAMPUS STAND-OUTS

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, March 29, 1955
Foreign Student Adviser Meet Dr^ma 
To Discuss Common Problems
On Thursday, March 17, the Foreign Student Advisers confer
ence was held at the Carnegie Union. Sponsored by the University 
of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Tech in cooperation with the Council of 
Foreign Student Advisers, which is a national organization, and 
attended by representatives from^ 
colleges and universities from all 
over Western Pennsylvania and 
West Virginia, the conference un
dertook discussion of the topics of 
orientation, government relations, 
community relations and academic 
problems.
Co-chairmen were Dr. Minor, 
the foreign student adviser at 
Tech, and Mr. Johnston, the for
eign student adviser at Pitt.
Among the 35 or 50 representa
tives attending were the faculty 
and administration concerned with 
the problems of foreign students 
at their colleges and universities, 
and representatives of such local
Carnegie Students 
Attend Conference 
For Methodists
The eleventh annual conference 
of the Pennsylvania State Metho
dist Movement was held March 
18-20 at Lewisburg, Pennsylvania, 
with 157 students representing 27 
different colleges and universities 
attending.
Dr. Robert Howe from the First 
Methodist Church, Pittsburgh, 
organizations as Rotary Club, the j was the guest speaker, leading the
YW&\ MCA, the C o u n c i 1 of j students under the theme Christ Church Women, and the Board I , _of Education. There were two j Constantly or Conveniently.
representatives from the Institute j Carnegie Tech students attendof International Education from ' ing the conference were Lyn MulNew York and one from the comj lerj Dot Long> Lou Bryantj and 
mittee on friendly relations among
foreign students, also from New 
York, who helped to lead the dis
cussion.
Orientation
The first topic discussed was 
the orientation of foreign stu
dents to the school, to the com
munity, and to the different cul
ture. For those students from 
similar cultures as ours, such as 
Canada, this is not too great a 
problem, while for those from 
certain European and Near East 
countries find this adjustment a 
difficult one to undergo.
Secondly, the conference dis
cussed the government relations 
with foreign students, as related 
to problems concerning privileges 
and the like. Community relations 
with the students and the way 
in which the various community 
organizations can help the stu
dents took up the third session of 
the conference. Finally the aca
demic problems of the students, 
especially those with a language 
barrier, were discussed. There 
were no speakers at the confer
ence; rather it was a sharing of 
ideas of all the participants.
Assembly
[Continued, from page I] 
and New York Psychoanalytic In
stitute. He is a graduate of the 
former, and has had one year of 
theological training at Princeton 
Seminary. He taught at the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania and the 
University of Pittsburgh and in 
Western Theological Seminary 
and the Philadelphia Divinity 
School. He is currently lecturer 
in psychoanalysis of children in 
the Philadelphia Psychoanalytic 
Institute.
For a number of years he has | 
been associated with the National 
Council of Churches in their de
partment of Pastoral Services, 
working in various capacities in 
their commission on Religion and 
Health. Dr. Loomis has been con
nected with the special meetings 
on spiritual healing under the 
auspices of the Laymens Move
ment for a Christian World. He 
has written papers on religion and 
psychiatry, prolonged sleep 
treatment, hypnosis and percep
tion, group psychotherapy, child 
psychiatry and child psychoanaly
sis, and the training of child de
velopment and child care workers.
After his address, the members 
of the audience will have an op
portunity to ask questions of Dr. 
Loomis. A luncheon with Dr. 
Loomis in Morewood Gardens will 
follow for those interested.
The next, and last, speaker in 1 
the series will be Admiral Bin 
MoreelJ, Chairman of the Board, j 
Jones and Laughlin Steel Corp, 
oration who will appear on May 5. J
Patronize 
Our Advertisers
Bob Shields. During the confer
ence Bob Shields was elected 
Pittsburgh Conference representa
tive to the Board of Education 
and Lou Bryant was elected west
ern vice president of the State 
Methodist Student Movement.
[Continued from page 1]
Nancy Dickinson, Lloyd Burlin
game and Leo Myer. Arnold 
Brockman is serving as stage 
manager, with Willis Longyear 
and Harriet Koskoff as his assis
tants. John Bos is stage carpen
ter and special projects are being 
taken care of by Richard Nelson, 
Donald Gart, Rosalyn Newport, 
Thomas Struthers and Daniel 
Walker. Sound is being done by 
Marshall Booth and Marshall 
Pihl.
Painting Staff
Heading the painting depart
ment is William MacDonald, with 
Sondra Boikan, Nancy Cole, John 
Conboy, Robert Fields, M. Sue 
Gordon, Frances Jungk, Janice 
Meshkoff, John Pierce, Thomas 
Pincu, Mary Pollock, Vincent 
Romeo and Joanne Spector.
Doing the electrical work for 
the scenes are David Mintz, Mark 
Abramson, Barbara Conan, Linda 
Effrat, Roger Kieval, Donna 
Krochmal, Yaroslaw Levycky, 
Shirley Mendonca, LeRoy Miller, 
Barbara Schultz, and Claire Teitel.
Properties are being handled by 
Stephen Arnold, assisted by 
Nancy Blumenthal, Jane Carter, 
Patricia Clary, Sylvia Dante, 
William Gray, T. Brooke Howard, 
Byron Ringland, and Jack Shaheen. Others in the production 
staff are costume crew head Joan 
Kugell, house manager Roger 
Kieval, and head ushers Irene 
Baird and Linda Effrat.
Carnival[Continued from page 1] 
design and race trophies will again 
be awarded at the Saturday night
dance.
Call Day, featuring the crown
ing of the Spring Carnival queen 
by President Warner and the calls i 
by the various honoraries, will  
again be held on Flagstaff Hill Fri1 
day afternoon. The outdoor site I 
was chosen for the second straight 
year after the success which last 
years Call Day enjoyed.
Name Band Hired
Both Friday and Saturday evenins will be filled by dances. Fri
days dance will be a street affair 
held in front of Engineering Hall 
with a local band providing the 
music. Saturdays dance will fea
ture a big name band and will 
again be held in the gym. Both 
the name of the band and the 
theme of the decorations are be
ing withheld for the present until 
final plans for publicity are com
pleted. Tickets will not go on sale 
until about two weeks before Car
nival.
Friday and Saturday afternoons 
will find sorority, fraternity, and 
faculty competitions holding the 
spotlight. The fraternities again 
will stage their plank jousting 
tournament and the faculty will 
attempt an gg-tossing meet. The 
sorority competition will consist of 
relays, the exact nature of which 
will not be disclosed until the time 
of the actual event.
All in all the weekend promises
Military Group 
To Give Students 
Intelligence Talk
The Second Army Intelligence 
and Mobile Instructional and 
Demonstration Team will visit the 
Reserve Center on April 5 for a 
program on the role of Intelli
gence during war.
The team will trace Intelligence 
operations during combat, giving 
a complete picture of its value in 
the completion of a battle mission. 
Highlighting the show will be a 
dramatic sketch showing the inter
rogation of an enemy prisoner of 
war. Questioning techniques used 
in different situations will be il
lustrated as well as their variance 
according to the prisoners atti
tude.
As has been demonstrated by 
the Korean conflict, interroga
tion can have various adverse ef
fects on the mind. Thus a clearer 
understanding, the Military De
partment feels, will better prepare 
a cadet for actual combat condi
tions.
Any cadets planning to attend 
should notify Mr. Wibner, Mili
tary Department, by April 1.
to be a wonderful break from the 
grind in which all students get 
trapped. The biggest event of the 
school year is comingand none 
too soon for most of us!
LUCKY DROODiES ! GET'EM HERE !
WHATS THIS? For solution see paragraph below. 
Droodle suggested by Norman Gerber, C. C. N. Y. 
SIAMESE DOUGHNUT
William F. Stephens 
Florida State University
WORM CROSSING DEEP CRACK 
IN SIDEWALK
Nancy Reed Ingham 
University of Washington
HAVE A LITHE FUN when you 
smoke. Enjoy yourself. Give your
self the pleasure of a bettertasting Lucky Strike. The 
enthusiasm often inspired by 
Luckies famous better taste is 
illustrated in the Droodle {right) 
titled: Alphabet soup for Lucky 
smoker. So why stew over what 
cigarette to smoke? Luckies 
taste is letter-ipeiiect. After all, 
L .S. /M. F .T.Lucky Strike means 
fine tobacco. Then, that tobacco 
is toasted to taste better. Its 
Toasted the famous Lucky 
Strike processtones up Luckies 
light, mild, good-tasting tobacco
AMERICAN OIL WELLS
Gary A. Steiner 
University of Chicago
 % 
       
 * *  *   
 *. 
     
to make it taste even better... 
cleaner, fresher, smoother. When 
you light up, enjoy the bettertasting cigarette... Lucky Strike.
*rrC /
40+^
2 ARMY ANTS GOING A.W.O.L.
John J. Phelan 
Boston College
STUDENTS!EARN *25!
Lucky Droodles* are pouring in! Where 
are yours? We pay $25 for all we use, and 
for many we dont use. So, send every 
original Droodle in your noodle, with its 
descriptive title,' to Lucky Droodle, P. O. 
Box 67, New York 46, N. Y.
DROODLES. Copyright 1953 by Roger PriceCIGARETTES
Beitea taste Luckier... LUCKIES TASK BETTER ...CCeane/i, Faeshe/i,
tjdmAXiean A. I. Co.PRODUCT OFAMERICAS LXADIHO MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTES
