JUNIOR PROM:
Sale of Preliminary ! 
Tickets Closes on 
February 15th
ANNOUNCING:
The Fourth Basket-j 
ball Dance, Friday 
Feb. 11th, Tech Gym
VOL. XV NO. 17CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY. PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA.FEBRUARY 9, 1921
TECHS SUPERIOR PLAYING TO MUCH EOR GENEVA TEAM
Improved Passwork of Tartan 
Quintet Keeps Visitors Guess
ingDosey, Bell and Gibson 
Again Star
SCORE 46 TO 26
In a rather one-sided contest played 
in the Tech. gyni last Saturday night, 
the Geneva College five fell before the 
superior play of the Plaid Warriors, 
46-26. The game was a slow one, and 
throughout the contest, there was 
little doubt as to the outcome. Dosey 
starred again, and sharing the honors 
with him, were Bell and Gibson, both 
of whom gave excellent accounts 01 
themselves. Dosey made several long 
spectacular shots.
There was a very noticeable im
provement in the team work and pass
ing of the Tartan five, and it had the 
Geneva boys guessing. Occasionally, 
however, the pass work was broken 
up and a Geneva player would take 
the ball down the court only to find 
the Tech guards awaiting him, and re
lieve him of the ball. Bell, Dosey and 
Gibson were especially adept at break
ing up plays in the territory near the 
Geneva basket. The first half ended 
22-13, Tech leading.
The second half, the Plaid team 
seemed to have matters in their own 
hands, and held the ball most of the 
time. In this half the improvement in 
team work was most noticeable, and the 
team displayed some clever antics 
with the sphere, completely bewilder
ing the Geneva boys. The game 
seemed to liven up during the last 
few minutes of play, but the Tartan 
five kept their lead, and persistently 
widened the gap in the score, with 
long shots, in which they specialized 
until the final whistle blew, when the 
score was 46-26.
The line-up:
Carnegie Tech46 Geneva26
Dosey .................F............. Galbraith
McPhee i...............F................ Thomas
Bell ......................C..................... Harr
Nichol .................G................ Loefflei
Gibson ...............G.............. McGrew
Substitutions-Atwell for McGrew, 
Wilson for Atwell, Allan for Gibson, 
Nichol for Allan, I-Iammon for Mc
Phee, WeirmAn for Nichol. Field goals 
Dosey 8, McPhee 5, Bell 2, Nichol. 
Gibson 2, Allan, Weirman,, Thomas 
Harr, 4, Atwell. Foul goalsDosey 6 
out of 13, Bell 2 out of 3, Galbraith
14 out of .25, UmpireDaugherty. 
RefereeBaird. TimekeeperGlover.
SHiPAHOY NAUGHTY-CAL 
GIRLS ON. DECK, MARCH 4 & 5
Sliip_ Ahoy! All hands on deck! 
The first act of the musical comedy, 
Ship Ahoy has been read before a 
group of navigators interested in 
launching a show that will go down 
the ways big. And will it float? Well, 
just keep a weather eye on their swell
ing sails. The workers are preparing 
to sweep all before them in a gust of 
enthusiasm. Lots of naughti-cal girls 
have come out for chorus practice. 
Soon they will show plenty of classy 
stuff and will be able to tie them
selves into knots for the sake of the 
ship. A fine cargo has been stowed in 
the log ready to be converted into ap
propriate costumes.
Keep your eye on this ships log dur
ing the cruise to port. Interesting 
fragments will be printed in this paper 
every week. Of course you do not 
need to be told to meet the ship when 
it arrives on March 4th and 5th.
A meeting of the "Student .Activities 
board was held February 2. The fol
lowing reports were received from the 
various committees: The committee 
on club rooms requested that the 
question of janitor service for the 
Union be given further consideration; 
the Budget and Inventory committees 
presented their budget for the school 
year 1921-22. The treasurers report 
was read and accepted. Banner com
mittee reported its progress.
A petition was received from the 
vRifle Club asking for recognition un
der the Students Activities Board and 
was put over for further considera
tion.
J. K. Macalpine was appointed editor-in-chief of the C. I. T. Technical 
Journal. Ten dollars was voted for the 
coming Tech Song competition. A re-9 
mission of charges to the M. M. D. 
Senate for their recent dance was 
granted in view of the fact that pro
ceeds went to the Hoover Relief Fund.
The followingmen were appointed 
to membership on the general com 
mittee: F. I. Smith, chaii'man, Rauh,
Dermitt.
COL. WOODS SPEAKS ON 
EXECUTIVESIND. ASSEMBLY
SCIENCE STAG SMOKER
--------------
The biggest events of the year for 
Science men will take place in the 
Langley Laboratory, Friday, February
18. This is the annual smoker and 
feed which always makes such a big 
hit, both as to program and general 
good fellowship that always prevails.
The committee is arranging an ex
ceptional program for this night and 
withthe co-operation of the various 
classes with their stunts is able to 
assure all Science men that the Stag 
Party this year will surpass that of 
previous years.
1
ACTIVITIES MEETING
MUSICAL CLUBS ALUMNI GUESTS
The Pittsburgh Alumni of Tech 
will give  luncheon in the Chambei 
of Commerce Saturday, February 19, 
at 12 o'clock to the following musical 
organizations: Band, M. M. C. String
ers, Musical Clubs, Girls Glee Club 
and the Jazz Orchestra.
After the luncheon the musical or
ganizations will give a concert in the 
auditorium for the members of the 
Chamber of Commerce.
This promises to be a great after
noon 'for Tech, as it is going to bring 
the school in direct touch with ap
proximately 6,000 business people of 
Pittsburgh, who are members of the 
Chamber.
It is up to every Techite to boost 
the school and this is one. way of 
bringing us in closer touch with the 
Pittsburgh public.
The students are trying to do their 
part by giving the concert, so let 
every Tech alumnus in Pittsburgh 
boost this cause and tura out 100 per 
cent for the luncheon and concert on 
Saturday, February .19.
BENEFIT DANCE-FEB. 19
A highly entertaining and interest
ing talk was given by Col. Woods at 
the last Industries Assembly. He em
phasized tlie fact that in order to suc
ceed in business and to occupy an ex
ecutive position one must be able to 
handle men. No matter how skilled 
a man may be, if he is not able to con
trol the men under his authority and 
make them respect him he cannot hold 
an executive position.
Red Oaltley reported on the 
Gambol of the Guilds and stated 
that it was the social success of the 
year.
A novel feature, following the as
sembly, was Red Morris* cohorts, 
holding inspection. Of course they al
ways hold inspection, but not always 
in the efficient manner that this one 
was made. A thorough check up of 
the plebe was made and woe unto 
those who did not attend the assembly.
In order to purchase necessary 
equipment for Tech's newly formed 
and flourishing boxing and wrestling 
team, a benefit dance will be held in 
the Union, Saturday evening, February
19. Tickets will be sold for S1.25 per 
couple and it is hoped that this rate 
will bring out a large crowd. Tickets 
will be on sale at Graduate Manager 
Frank Haaren's office or on the cam
pus during the next two weeks.
Witli such advance notice there 
should be no excuse for any Tech 
man not attending this dance. The 
team needs financial aid and it is 
taking this pleasureable means of 
raising it. Make a date for February 
19 and support a good cause. A fivepiece orchestra will furnish the 
music.
NO SMOKING IN UNION
When dances are held in Union do 
not smoke on the third floor. Make 
yourself a committee of one to try and 
eliminate this. It is a very unpleas
ant sight to see cigaret and cigar 
butts lying around on the floor and 
in the hall. Why not go down to the 
first and second floor landings to 
smoke and keep the Union a little 
cleaner?
SOPH HOP FEB. 22 
HOTELSCHENLEY
A Four School Dance to be 
Informal-Tickets Out SoonHughes1 Orchestra to Play
WILL DANCE UNTIL 1 A.
There are three big social affairs 
in college life, the Soph hop, Junior 
prom and Senior ball. The hop, coming 
in the Sophomore year, Is* the first of 
these Red Letter nights.
The Soph hop of the class of 1923 
is to be held in the Sclienley ball 
room. You know that will mean a 
wonderful floor and with Hughes 
orchestra furnishing the music the 
committee will certainly have done its 
part in making a go.
Now the rest is up to you. Are you 
going to let your hop fall through be
cause you arent going? Having the 
Schenley ball room and Hughes or
chestra means that a lot of money has 
to be spent. The committee can't 
spend it to put the affair across, un
less you buy a ticket. Theyre going to 
begin selling tickets soon now, and 
when some one comes up to you don't 
say no. Say oh, sure, and give 
him or her a five dollar billyou'll 
get a couple back. Three dollars isn't 
much when it means the Soph hop.
A committee composed of members 
of all four schools is working now on 
plans for the night of Washingtons 
Birthday. They have been working 
on them for some four weeks, and 
they-will keep 011 working up to the 
night. They are doing everything in 
their power to give you a good time.
Whether you hang up your hat in 
Design or Margaret Morrison, Science 
01* Industries, you are eligible for the 
hop so long as you are a Sophomore. 
The chaperons are to be tlie deans or 
all the schools.
You dont have to put on evening 
clothes as the dance is informal and 
you can dance until 1 o'clock. What 
more do you want? Dont forget 
you're going to buy a ticket.
FRENCH NIGHT COSMOS CLUB
Director Bossange Shows Paris 
Dr. Esquerre Tells About 
the People
A parlez-vous night was given by 
the French members of the club to 
the others and their guests on Satur
day, January 29. Mr. O. Schnurer was 
in charge of the program, which was 
arranged as follows:
Marseillaise, piano solo, by Miss 
Soulie.
Slides of Paris, explained by 
Director E. R. Bossange.
Piano solo by Miss Gertrude Robin
son.
Address on The French People, by 
Dr. E. Esquerre.
Violin solo by Miss Doubeau.
French song by Mr. D. D. Dimaucesco.
Director Bossange replaced us in 
gay Paris, whose beauty was shown in 
the wonderful architecture of the 
buildings and the magnificence of the 
parks, and the other numbers were 
performed in a similarly splendid 
way, and when, at 10 oclock, the 
dancing started and refreshments 
were served, one felt as though he 
was present at a nail in the Paris 
Opera House.
A "Roumanian Night is arranged 
for by Dem Dimaucesco on Febru
ary 26 in the Union. Members, -make 
your dates!
12 SUCCEED IN DEBATEJRYOUTS
Final 8 to be Chosen Thru 
Series of EliminationsW. 
& J. Negative Team Here
STRONG TEAM ASSURED
P.&D. ARTISTS DO PUPPET COVER
That T^cli will be well represented 
in inter-collegiate debating for tho 
coming season was evidenced by the 
turnout last Thursday evening for the 
first tryouts and elimination contest. 
Twelve were picked rrorn those who 
competed and through a series of 
further eliminations eight will finally 
be chosen to represent the institution 
on two Varsity teams.
Both W. & J. and West Virginia may 
expect strong opposition from Tech in 
view of the caliber of the contestants 
and tlie fact that several men have 
had inter-.collegiate experience else
where. In the triangular debate to be 
held April 15 the negative team of W. 
& J. will appear here. Techs negativeteam goes to West Virginia.
Those retained for the second elim
ination contest were: Miss E. Ander
son, Messrs. Gould, Goundry, Jones, 
Lawrence, Lurie, McRae, Reeves, 
Riley, Stinchfleld, Uslan and White
head.
CARNEGIE MASQUE CLUB
Ah organization meeting of a now 
club to be formed of students from all 
schools, will be held in Room 60. 
Science Building, at 8:00 p. 111., 
Thursday, February 10. The name is 
the Carnegie Tech Masque Club, 
(and the purpose is to present an an
nual production of the same nature 
as those given by similar organizajtions at almost all the large colleges 
in the country. Everyone who is at 
all interested in the formation of such 
a club should make it a point to be 
^misent and got the idea started with 
a bang,
VARSITY MENRFCEIVESjETTERS
Buddy Overend to Present 
News of Athletic Drive, 
Girls Musical Clubs
The long delayed presentation of 
sweaters, gold and silver footballs ana 
C certificates will take place today 
at the general assembly In tho Car
negie Music Hall. Mr. Haaron, grad
uate manager, will officiate. These 
tokens of esteem are awarded for ath
letic ability and unselfish sacrifice and 
it should be a pleasure to all to see 
our representatives thus honored. 
Buddy Overend will also be present 
and is expected to give out some in
formation 011 the coming athletic 
drive.
All students are urged to get down 
early and football men are requested 
to sit in the front row. The Varsity 
Clan restaurant will not open until 
12:30. Professor Vladimir ICarapetoff 
of - Cornell University will talk 011 
"Educational Aims and Means. The 
Girls Musical Club will furnish some 
snappy music.
The following men will be awarded 
major Cs and gold footballs .for foot
ball: H. G. Wittmer, Lloyd Gomfort,
H. C. Henderson, A. C. Irwin, M. A. 
Rosenbloom, C. C. Brumbaugh, H. O. 
Sprinkle, J. L. Anderson, J. A. Robert
son, H. C. Godden, Harold McClean, 
(Continued on Page Four.)
SheOh, I dont know his name, but 
hes the one that was always blowing 
that little whistle.Michigan Daily. 
Exchanges
RIFLE CLUB STARTS 
SCHOOLS FIRST MATCH
With a range completed in the top 
of Design 'School and with the best 
training that the limited time per
mitted, the first rifle team shot its 
premier match. It is impossible to 
judge the standings of the various 
teams, as the results will not be given 
out for several weeks.
This match was the first of a series 
of 10, which are to be shot on suc
cessive weeks. It is, perhaps, well to 
state that the team is shooting under 
a serious handicap and too much 
should not be expected of it. The 
team is not as proficient in the stand
ing position as in the prone, and this 
will materially decrease their total 
score. However this defect is being 
speedily remedied.
During the latter part of February 
(Continued on Page Four.)
SC!. NIGHT ASSEMBLY 
LAST FRIDAY EVENING
The Puppet cover contest in tho 
P. & D. department ended February 
7th. Puppet offered ten dollars for 
the best design which can bo used on 
an early issue to be called the "Serious 
Number." Some of the designs carry 
out that idea and others are suitable 
for titles such as "Life and Judge 
use. The artists were limited to three 
colors. Everyone will undoubtedly 
watch for the number with the prize 
cover. School credit will be given 
for the work of all contestants.
AND THE VILLAIN
The echoes of the Junior Follies 
have hardly died away, the praises of 
their huge success as songsters and 
dancers have not. yet ceased to be 
sung when suddenly, out of the deep 
recesses of secrecy there has been 
brought to light a great and import
ant fact. Many a day ago would it 
have been known to you did not our 
extreme courtesy to our upper
classmen prompt us to give them tho 
precedence. But, be that as it may, we 
must out with it now.
Wo, the Sophomores of the M. M.
D., are at last announcing to the 
world, the great world of Tecliites, 
that our day has come. Tho little 
buzzes and whisperings that the feet of 
many havo boon working as one is 
true. It is our chorus. Now it is 
out!
What excitement and thrills, what 
joyous songs, what rippling laughter 
peal through tho halls of Margaret 
Morrison. It is a mysterious spirit in 
the air that; makes us so happy, that 
made tho Juniors so happy, and that 
made us all want to let the world 
know and partake of our happiness. 
Piero is your big chance. Soo how 
Tho Villain Still Pursued Her. It is 
the chnnco of a lifotlmo. Loom how 
it Is done. March 12 Is tho big day. 
Tako note now that this day is re
served strictly for you by you. Tills 
is the fjecrot of what our big secret 
Is. Follow tho mystery closely In tho 
large wookly Installments filled with 
many thrilling clues that lead to a big 
finale.
FOLLIES OF 22 PROVE A SUCCESS
Playing to capacity crowds during 
its short run of two nights, tho Follies 
of 1922, a mimicry of Flo Zlegfiold'H 
show, staged by tho Margarol: Mor
rison Juniors under the direction ol! 
Miss Unity Paul, proved a greater 
JJUUNII than was expected.
The Pierrot scene with Misses Mor
mon and Smith was but a fancy light 
from .fancy caught, and was the big 
hit of the show. Pierrette, presum
ably Miss Smith, oi perhaps Miss Mor
mon, since wo always say Ladles and 
Gontlomnn, carried well the coloring 
of the old French legend and her 
lightness, clover dancing and uncon
scious personality made this scene 
stand out.above the, others.
Perhaps the sombreness of the non* 
malacy of times as was determined at 
the last election struck some of the 
high Rights from the show, which was 
so prominent with them last year. 
Miss Paul with her white, pink and 
red jokes, although she forgot to toll 
(Continued on Page Four.)
SR. ARCHITECTS jOEAUX ARTS
Last Saturday, February 5tl.i, tho 
Senior Architects finished another in 
teresting project, A Storage Ware
house. The problem involved the de
sign of a warehouse suitable for the 
storage of old files and documents for 
banks, insurance companies and other 
business organizations. The exterior 
of the building was to express the 
solidity and stability suitable for an 
establishment devoted to such pur
poses. Many interesting solutions 
were completed and judgment for the 
same will be held February 23, 1921, in 
New York.
About 125 men were present in room 
209 last Friday evening when Presi
dent Greenwald called the General 
Assembly to order and introduced 
Dean Tarbell as the first speaker of 
the evening. For a topic Dean Tar
bell had chosen the question of Stud 
ent Activities, especially in relation to 
night men, and lie emphasized the ex 
tremely important part they play in 
the life of the student, not only direct
ly here at school, (but also indirectly 
after graduation. Interest I11 school 
affairs and an active part in school 
activities develops a man's character 
and broadens him and is of value to 
him In that it brings the student in 
touch with men and with opportunities 
which otherwise would not be In his 
reach. Dean Tarbell also pointed out 
(Continued on Page Three.)
FED. BOARD STUDENTS ORGANIZE
On Friday, January 28, a movement 
was started for the formation of a 
club composed of Federal Board stud
ents only. About 200 men were pres 
ent and officers elected as foliov 
President, E, W. Gibson; vice presi
dent, E, Oakley; secretary, E. L, 
Bliss; treasurer, I, IC. Mecklem. A 
committee was appointed to draw up 
a constitution .for the organization,
Full many a keg of purest hue and 
sheen
In some unfathomed stilly spot lies 
there,
Full many a quart Is born to blush 
Unseen
And waste Its fragrance on somt 
mountain heir.
CLANS BACHING BRIVEANB ATHLETIC JMMENT
Prominent Penn State Man 
Says$50.0C0 Easy as 
Securing Mortage on Our 
Buildings
SUB-COMMITTEES MEET
'Fifty thousand dollars from tho 
alumni ami former students of Car
negie Tech should bo as easily ob
tained as securing a mortgage for ono 
of the buildings, stated a prominent 
alumnus of Penn State in discussing 
the coming campaign for Techs Ath
letic Association Extension Fund, and 
the movement in progress at Penn 
State by which State alumni are con
tributing a track house and memorial 
to their Alina Mater.
"With the record of achievement of 
Techs athletic teams, tho upbuilding 
of her student and alumni spirit, and 
the growing importance of ' Tech in 
the collegiate and business world, 1 
cannot conceive a logical reason for 
doubt as to tho success of your com
ing drive, and knowing tho growing 
estoom for Tech In Pittsburgh and 
Western Pennsylvania 1 havo but lit
tle doubt that the public will aid you 
In carrying your drlvo through to a 
successful conclusion.
Tho Executive Committee In chargo 
of tho campaign, headed by Graduate 
Manager Frank H. Haaron, has hold a 
number of meetings within the past 
two woolcs, and other mootings of this 
body are scheduled for Tuesday and 
Saturday pi! next week, so as to clear 
up all matters of Importance before 
the opening of the drive 011 Monday, 
February 14, The sub-committees, 
headed by G. T. Hoddaous, 1C. II. 
INrsoli, Claronoo Ovorend, Miss Helen 
Stewart, J. VV. Batman, M. F. Harrott, 
fere Doherty, Miss Edna 0, Smith 
and W. ii. Sk Inkle, representing the 
fraternities, Varsity (Man, Public 
Groups. Schools, Faculty, Classes and 
Night 'School, respectively, are to 
meet at Intervals before tho opening 
of the campaign so that every mem
ber of the committees and teams may 
bn thoroughly familiarized with tho 
work to bo done and the method to 
bo used in making this first alumni * 
and public effort a complete success.
Last .Saturday night an enthusiastic 
meeting of the New York ' Clan 
was held, which was attended by 
alumni from Harrisburg, Hartford, 
Philadelphia, Boston and a. num
ber of other cities of the east. 
Dr, ilummorsohjug, Dean (Jon no Hoy 
and Cl. L. Tllbrook el' the Institute, at
tended and spoke, outlining (lie record 
(Continued on Pago Three.)
MUSIC DEPT, GIVES CONCERT 
PAGUIN READS ENOCH ARDEN
On Sunday. February 20, tho Drama 
and Music Schools of the Division of 
Arts will give for your approval an 
entertainment of special Interest. Law
rence Pnquin of tho Drama school will 
road Tennysons Enoch Arden, ac
companied with music written by 
Richard Strauss. Tills accompanimont 
is to bo played by Alice Kirk. Bosides 
Enoch Arden the 'School of Music 
students will play a Brahm's trio, 
violin, cello and piano.
On Sunday, February 27, the School 
of Music offers to the public a wood
wind concert which promises great 
variety both of style and Instrumenta
tion. All right, yuns guys from Teen 
les git out to these here things.
NIGHT INDUSTRIES WILL 
HOLD ASSEMBLY FEB. 14
On Monday evening, February 14, at 
9:00 p. m. the Night Industries men 
will hold their second General Assem
bly of the year. Graduate Manager 
Frank Haareri will address the men 
in regard to the athletic drive com
mencing that day. Students will not 
be asked to contribute directly, bur, 
will be asked to get' their friends to 
buy the new ten dollar athletic tickets, 
good for admission to all athletic 
events throughout tlie year.
Tickets will also be on sale for the 
big dance to be given fyfaroh 12, by 
the Night Industries -School, ft is 
hoped that the men will support this 
dance and help to make it one of the 
outstanding featuresof the social 
events on the calendar for industries 
Night this year.
ANNOUNCEMENT
Delta Skull, tho Junior honorary 
fraternity, wishes to announce that 
beginning this year, men from tho 
three schools Junior classes will bo 
considered eligible for membership.
1452075924046336

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE TAWTAHWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1921
- (in oicirian
Published every week by undergraduate of tho Carnegie InHlitute of 
Technology under the supervision of tho Student Activities Board.
Entered in the Postoillce or Pittsburgh an second-claws matter.
LAWRENCE K. PAQUIN.............................................................. Edit6r'ln-Ohief
Telephone, Schenley 9180.
DON. A. SILLERS ................................................................... Business Manager
Telephone, Schenley 9211
WILLIAM D. HALL ................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephone, Schenley' 9009.
FRED L. KNOWLES...............................................Assistant Managing Editor
STUART P. SMITH ................................................................... Athletic Editor
DONALD S. HARDING ................................................................... News Editor
WILLIAM OBENOUIt ...................................................... Circulation Manager
WILLIAM R. MILLS ......................................................... Advertising Manager
EDITORIAL AND NEWS ASSISTANTS
Kenneth Arnold, Assistant News Editor; Divisional Asttietants, Helen 
Lewis, M. M. D.; Charlotte'Shuman, Arts; I, SlsHinan, Science; B. R. Beiver, 
Industries; Editorial Assistants, V. H. ^troincjulst; L. .J. Whitehead; Night 
School Editor, Edward A. Brand; Assistant Athletic Editor, H. L. Moorsfelder; artooriist, M. G. Winslow; Photographer, It. II. Guyton.
BU8INE8S A88ISTANT8
D. Sonneniann, Walter Heller and Ackerman.
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for the make up.
SHORT SKIRTS AND-----
INDUSTRIES'PLEBES
DANCECHAPEL
MININGAND METALLURGICAL 
CLUB
Last Thursday night Mr. Yen, who 
has had considerable experience in the 
blast furnace business in China, ad
dressed the organization and gave a 
thorough account of the game as prac
ticed in tho Far East. He bowed 
how in many ways American-designed 
furnaces were much more superior 
than those of German design.
Smoke and eats, were plentiful. 
Music was furnished hy A. Brosby. 
Every one had a good time and a 
sincere brotherly spirit was evident.
The club Is extremely fortunate in 
securing Prof. Hill of the University 
Of Pittsburgh, formerly Instructor in 
mining and metallurgical department, 
to speak on how to mitne, prospect and 
real experiences in tho far west on 
Feruary 15, A jaiiss orchestra Is being 
formed hy Brosky to furnisff music. A 
real meeting with real pep. Just watch 
us.
CITMAS CLUB
The Citmas Club held a meeting 
last Wednesday evening. The chief 
topic of discussion was that of dues. 
It was decided to make the same rate 
as last year. It is hoped that this will 
interest, every Mason on the campus.
A. dance will be held on Tuesday, 
February 15, in the Conservatory of 
Music on Dithridge street. It is up 
to every Mason at Tech, students and 
faculty to support this affair, and 
make it a big success. .
The next meeting of the club will 
be on Wednesday evening, February 
23. The place will be announced later. 
All those who were at the meetings 
will recall the snap in which they 
were conducted and there is no reason 
why we should not have a big turn
out again as last year. Dont forget 
the date.
Just at present it sOems to be tlie custom for every college paper 
to take a slam at the girls. It would appear that the younger genera
tion is going to rack ancl ritbi' unless a halt is called in the terrible 
downward trend oi the fashions. No ray of hope lightens the gloom 
.Which is, in the minds of most of our contemporaries, descending upon 
our colleges in the form of an assurance that all the young women 
arc going from bad to worse. They not only wear clothes which would 
shock the most sophisticated of a few ,years bade, but they dancewell, they dance simply awfuland to top the whole thing, they are 
all, without a single exception, confirmed  gold-diggers.
To read the editorial columns of any college paper at this date 
must prove a revelation to the fond parent. To tell the truth, it must 
be quite a bit of a surprise to even the students of the institution 
which it represents, unless Tech happens to be the one glorious ex
ception. Especially in a school of the nature of the Division of the 
Arts, where everyone seems to expect the worst, whatever that may 
be, we have yet to see a costume which would make us look twice 
because of its lack of modesty. And that is what you might consider 
tho acid test.
Of course girls are wearing shorter skirts than they have ever 
worn, before. But what wholesome, clean-minded man would not 
rather see a woman in a sane, short skirt, with plenty of freedom to 
move as nature intended she should, than in one of the sheath crea
tions which emphasised her every contour while hobbling her move
ments almost beyond endurance, sweeping tlie; ground in an attempt 
to trip her at every step. And yet we are supposed to have become 
so much more immodest with the innovation of the sensible short 
skirt.
The majority ol! tho girls wo know wear woolen stockings in cold 
weather this winter. Does anyone remember any other time in this 
century when a young girl could wear anything but sheer silk even 
in zero weather and not be considered dowdy V
Yet the gentler sex must be reformed before it is too Tate, say 
our virtuous youth. We have attended several dances during the last 
week, and no shocking docollotes were noticed except possibly on ma
trons who should have known better. Tho debutantes were even con
servative in their manner of covering the, throat.
Dancing has progressed far from the day of the wait/, and twostop it is true. One seldom sees anything but fox trots, hpd few of 
l;h,ok are danced alike. The shimmy is spoken of quite heatedly, 
hut we have never soon it carried to the extremes which others rave 
about, and we have attended not a few parlies which were said to 
havo been just a trifle rough. And in the eo#o of regular campus 
da.nc.es, ii is almost never attomptOd at all. The regular fox trot, with 
its comparatively quick time and movement; can never compare with 
the slow, dreamy, clinging waltz: for effocts on the emotions. Still, 
wo must be reformed.
hor the last accusation, all girls ore go Id digger rf. That is, to a 
certain extent true, and has always been true. So are. all men. Does 
any man ever think of taking a girl out to an entertainment of any 
nature without first considering what kiiul. of a time he himself is, 
going to get out of the transaction? Usually, of course, he spends 
the money. Thai. U due to our social system, over which neither the 
girls or the men individually have any control. .But we know ol! very 
few girls on the campus who will accompany a man whom they care 
absolutely nothing for to any kind of an entertainment just because 
of the monetary consideration, involved. If she goes because of 
the pleasure she will derive from.'the. event, he is doing the same 
thing, and it is a case of fifty-fifty. There may be a. few gold-dig
gers in the sense that we imply about Tech, but they are fe'W indeed.
The girls of the present day are as good as, and as bad as. the 
girls of any generation. They have their fads and foibles as their 
mothers had before them, and as their children will have after them. 
But as a whole, they are just a little more sensible, wo think, a little 
more frank and honest with themselves and with their friends, and a 
little more able to take care of themselves without any preaching 
from the smug members of the opposite sex than they have ever 
been before.
JUNIORS HOLD MEETING
The Industries Juniors held a meet
ing last Wednesday for tho purpose of 
discussing a proposed party of some 
kind to be held in the near future. A 
social committee was appointed, con
sisting of Nathaniel Cassidy, S. P. 
Siegel and Casey Jones.
Mr. Cassidy gave a lengthy, if some
what tedious, report on the arrange
ments. He stated that he did not 
know yet whether this would he a 
theater party at the Academy, or a 
banquet, such as was held by the class. 
Iasi; year. Mr. Cassidy then enlight
ened the class with a few remarks on 
"Why Maggie Murphs Wear Goloshes.
ASSEMBLY
This Friday evening the Freshmen In response to a request made bjr 
oC the Division or Industries give their ! embers of both the faculty and the 
, , , | student body, there is to be held inannual dance to the upper class men I the L|tc Theater of thc Arls Build.
of that school. This is an annual TECH j jng a series of noon-time chapel servtom of the school and the affair is 
always novel as well as enjoyable. 
It is on this night that the Plebes 
ditch the dreaded black socks and 
ties and venture forth clad as real 
Techites.
The committee has promised some 
very novel features and one of the
ices, i
President Hammerschlag is insist
ent that this request shall not go un
heeded, and that the recommenda
tions of the committee of faculty and 
students which has been considering 
this question shall be given a fair 
trial. It is therefore proposed tohold chapel services on the six Monbest orchestras that the city boastb j days. beginning February 14 through.'
has been procured for this event. | Marrh 21; the tinie will be from one
-------------------- | to one-thirty o'clock, and the servTECH MECHANICS CLUB ices will consist of Scripture read
ing, singing, and a five-minutes talk 
by outside speakers from different 
churches, the service to be non-deAVO MEETING
STUDENT CALENDAR
February 11Basket Ball, Tech vs. Allegheny, Tech Field 
House.
February 11Industries Freshmen Dance, Union.
February 11Basket Ball Dance, Tech Gym.
February 12Womens Inter-Dorm Dance, Union.
February 14-25Athletic Drive.
February 17Industries Alumni Association, Union.
February 17Interfraternity Smoker, Woodlawn Club. 
February 18Building Construction Dance, Union.
February 18Sophomore Class Show, M. M. D.
February 18Basket Ball, C. I. T. Girls vs. Geneva, Gym. 
February 21- Quaker Club Dance, Schenley Hotel.
February 22Washingtons BirthdayNo classes.
February 22Four Schools Sophomore Dance, Union. 
February 24Basket Ball, Tech vs. Buffalo, Tech Field House. 
February 25Basket Ball Banco, Union.
February 25Basket Ball, Toch vs. Georgetown, Tech Field 
House.
February 25-M. M. !>., Junior Prom, Schenley Hotel.
February 26liasket Ball, Tech vs. Lafayette, Toch Field House. 
February 2GBasket Ball Dance, Gym.
February 2(5-Cosmopolitan Club, Koumaniau Night, Union. 
February 26 Wrestling Tournament, Tech vs. Ohio State.
EMPIRE STATE MEN
A movement has been started . to or
ganize men ol the Empire State. There 
are enough mien from. New York 
here in Tech to insure tho permanency 
of such an organization. Other sections of the country have some line 
clubs and there is no reason why the 
New Yorkers should not havo one of 
the top-notch clans. Show some pep. 
Notice of tho next, meeting will be 
placed on the bulletin boards. Watch 
for it.
Last Thursday the Avo Club held a 
meeting for the purpose of re-organiz
ing the membership roster. The mem
bers who were inactive or owed dues 
were dropped from the club and sev
eral new members were initiated. A 
committee was appointed to secure 
speakers from the numerous nearby 
industries. It is tlie plan of the club 
to have a different speaker every two 
weeks. These interesting lectures will 
be open to every one.
Miss Breed talked at Assembly 
Wednesday and as this is the Keats 
Centenary, spoke on Keats and read ! 
some of his works. Assemblies all this 
month will be devoted to the poems of 
one whose "name was writ in water. 
After Miss Breeds talk eight Plebes 
who had wandered from the prescribed 
paths, gave a little play for the 
amusement of all assembled, to 'ex
piate their sins.
The tragedy presented was A 
Kitchen Wedding, and the cast in
cluded:
Josephine Gibson .................The Bride
Victoria Weedy.........The Bridesmaid
Dorothy Wilson .......The Flower Girl
Betty Ivridler......................The Groom
Helen Caldwell ...........The Best Man
The Orchestra.............................
. .Georgia Ahrendts and Leah Smith 
The One Who Did the Dirty Deed,
the Preacher..................Hilda Beyer
The play was cleverly gotten up, 
and although the subject was such a 
sad one, it was enjoyed by every one 
who likes tragedy.
The Tech Mechanics Club intends to 
hold a meeting February 15 at 4:30 p. 
m. in room 104, Industries. At this 
time a new method of taking in mem-, 
bers will be discussed. A certain sys
tem will be installed and prospective 
members will have to attain a certain 
standard to become eligible for the 
club. There are some members who 
do not have pins. At this; meeting pins 
may be ordered.
The subject of hplding some social 
function will be discussed. It will be 
definitely decided whether this func
tion shall be a dance, theater party or 
smoker. All members are urged to be 
present.
A. A. E. HOLDS MEETING
Tuesday night, February 1,  began 
a new period for the C. I. T. chapter of 
the American Association of Engin
eers. At that time some three dozen 
members who know what A. A. E. 
stands for, got together under Pirn 
Collins and drew up plans for a pub
licity and membership campaign. II, 
J. Cass is head of the membership 
committee with power to name his 
own helpers. The drive will start 
within the week.
Two speakers, both experienced civil 
engineers and members of tho city A. 
A. E. chapter, were present to tell 
Why a Htudont, especially, should be
long to the A. A. E. Mr. S. II. Brena 
mtui of the P. H. It. gave in outline the 
alms of tho association, I. e., Organ
ization, Publicity and Employment foi 
I hiengineer. Mr. 13. A. Ludgato of 
lb1 I*. & L. E. elaborated on tin? Ideas 
of the first speaker.
The date of tho annual A, A. Ei 
dance was set for April 15, the first 
dance next quarter!
SCIENCE SOPHS
The Science Sophomore held! a 
short meeting Friday morning. Direct
or Mott was present and gave a short 
lalk on student standings. Among 
other things he emphasized the fact 
that Techs percentage of disappear
ances among the plebes is no greater 
than that of other good technical 
schools. An average of about 40 per 
cent drop out during the year anti 
only 10 or 15 per cent leave because 
of faculty action.
Plans were formulated for the Plebe 
Smoker to be held on the night of 
March <1. The chairman of the stunt 
committee for the Science Stag issued 
a call for volunteers for the Soph 
stunt. .
MINERS SMOKE
A get-together smoker given by 
the mining students of the three up
per classes was held in the 'Science 
Club room. The miners were all 
present and the faculty was repre
sented by Dr. Fettlce, Prof. Steidle and 
Prof. Price. Several non-technical 
mining talks were given, among them 
being a report on the recently dis
covered *Hoocliite deposits of Utah 
by Dr. Fettlce and a discussion of tli 
mining and use of radium by Prof. 
Price.
STUDENT VESPERS
Dr. Charles Gilkey, of the Hyde 
Park Baptist. Church of Chicago is to 
give an address of special interest to 
all Tech students tomorrow on 'Col
lege Atmosphere. Dr. Gilkey was to 
have spoken several weeks ago, but. 
was quarantined at the time. Ho is 
especially noted for his ability to in
terest students and in fact is being 
considered for the next, president of 
the University of Chicago, so this op
portunity to hear him will be appre
ciated by Tech.
Dr. Gilkey will speak at the First 
Baptist Church, comer of Bayard and 
Bellefiel'd streets (two blocks north
west from Carnegie Library) at 7:45 
tomorrow.
MRS. SCALES DISCUSSION CLASS
The Discussion Class met at noon 
Thursday, as usual, and had an inter
esting hour of discussion.  Mrs. Scales 
is meeting with the group each 
Thursday noon and makes the topics 
interesting. The subject this week 
was Wliat is Religion? Next week 
the girls wiil discuss the "Interpreta
tion of the Bible.
THE SONG COMPETITIONS  
Are Backed by
Tartan
Puppet
Athletic Association
M. M. D. Athletic Association
Girls Glee Club
M. M. D. Guild
Y. W. C. A.
Student Activities 
Interfraternity Council 
Are YOU going to do your part? 
Are YOU thinking about, a 
song?
Get busy and watch the TARTAN.
*, A A A ,
nominational in character.
Attendance is entirely . voluntary. 
Is Carnegie Tech interested now andfor the future in having some sort 
of chapel service on its campus? 
That, is the question. And it is ex
pected that the attendance at this. 
sbort series of. services will give the 
clue as to the answer. If only a few 
attend, it will he understood . that, 
students and faculty think,; that such 
meetingstogether are unessential in' 
the life of Tech; if there is a good 
representation from all schools, it 
will go to show that an all Tecli> 
chapel service is wanted.
What shall the answer be?
Committee on Religious Affairs:
S. E. DIBBLE,
J. B. ELLIS.
J. C. MOREHEAD.
W. K. RAISFORD,
G. M. RUPERT,
A. J. WURTS 
C. S. YOAKUM,
G. R. GRANDIN,
E. McCARSON,
L. W. L. SCALES,
Chairman.
FEBRUARY TWELFTH
Have you your ticket for the InterDorm dance? Its going to be one of 
the affairs of the year. Dont miss it. 
Its the first Inter-Dorm weve had and 
its going good. Extra good musicneverything.
M. M. D. SCIENCE
The Science Club of M. M. D. en
tertained at a tea last Thursday after
noon in the faculty parlors in honor 
of Miss Lucile Wakefield, an alumnae 
of the Science Department, who now 
holds a Junior Fellowship at Mellon 
Institute. Miss Wakefield gave a very 
interesting talk about her work. The 
faculty and the Freshmen of tho 
Science Department were also 
guests. This is the first, of a series 
of sucli teas in which the rest of the 
Science Alumnae will take part.
GLEE CLUB
Are there any stray altos wandering 
about? If you are one, or know of 
any one who is or could be one, let us 
know. Come to Assembly room on 
Thursday at 4:8.0 and try out. Harvey 
Caul, who directed the club last year, 
is in charge, and is razzing it into 
form. Come around and get your 
share. Youll want to be in on the 
concerts to say nothing of the Home 
Concert and dance!
ALL ALUMNI INVITED
JUNIOR PROM OF SCIENCEINDUSTRIESMARCH 11, 1921 
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
$8.50
The alumni who expect to come will help the committee if they 
will buy their tickets in advance. Make all checks payable to C. A. 
Blesch, Treasurer, and send remittance to W. M. Burke, care Design 
School, Carnegie Tech, Pittsburgh, Pa.
DESIGN PLEBES ELECT
The Plebes of Design School held 
their election for officers for the re
mainder of this school year last week. 
At; the first meeting on Wednesday 
two of the candidates for president 
were tied and another meeting had to 
be called for Friday. The officers are 
as follows:
Vincent Ray ..........................President
Teasdale Barney ........Vice-President
Helen Johnson.Second Vice-President
Margaret Taylor ............. .Secretary
Walter Dieter 1.................Treasurer
REPORT OFCHESS
ING
CLUB MEETThe Carnegie Tech Chess Club, as 
the organization has been named, held 
its second meeting Thursday night.
The constitution was read and 
adopted with minor amendments.
Mr. H. C. Douden was elected to the 
office of manager. In that capacity he 
will transact general business pertain
ing to club affairs.
Considerable time was given over 
to a discussion of ways and means of 
getting club activities started. Chess 
men and boards will be placed in the 
campus library for the convenience ol 
members and others interested in the 
game. Registered students of all 
schools are eligible to membership. 
Applicants should make payment of 
50 cents Initiation foe to E. M. John
ston. Dorm. One. Only members may 
enter the first tournament, which will 
bogin inside of a few days.
The next regular meeting will be 
held on Wednesday. February 23. An
nouncement of place and hour will be 
posted later.
BASKET BALLGeneva! Pitt beat emcant we?
STUDENT SUPPLIES
Fountain Pens, popular makes, $1.50 
up; Eversharp and similar Pencils, 
50c up. Watermans Best Ink, Ink 
Tablets, Tech Recognition and Seal 
Pins, Rings, Frat Jewelry, Stationery, 
etc., Dance Programs, Favors, Sta
tionery plain and monogramrned ; 
Fountain Pen Repairing.
SINGER PEN & GIFT SHOP
FIRST FLOOR JENKINS ARCADE
BELLEFIELD PRESBYTERIAN 
CHURCH 
Bellefleld and Fifth Avenues. 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister.
Preaching Service, 11 and 8.
Sunday School at 10.
Christian Endeavor at 7.
We want the Tech boys to at
tend our services and learn to 
know us as the congregation of 
Friendly People. A hearty 
welcome awaits you.
St. Pauls Cathedral
Fifth Ave. and Craig St.
Masses: 6:30, 8:00, 9:00, 10:00 and/
11:00 A. M. on Sundays & Holy Days. 
Vespers on Sunday at 7:30 P. M. 
Pew 53, Middle Aisle, for Tech 
Students.
Third United 
Presbyterian Church
DR. HUGH B. SPEER, Pastor. 
'Shady and Northumberland Avenues.. 
Graded Sunday School, 10 :00 A. M. 
Preaching Services, 11:00 A. M. and.
8:00 P. M.
Young Peoples Service, 7:00 P. M. 
Brief and Warm-Hearted MessagesA cordial welcome to all.
Grace Church
(Reformed)
BAYARD AND DITHRIDGE STS. 
FREDERICK C. NAU, Minister. 
SERVICES:
Sunday School9:45 A. M.
Morning Worship11 A. M.
Social Hour and Luncheon, for Stu
dents, 15c, at 6 oclock.
Christian Endeavor7 P. M.
Popular Evening Services at 7:45, 
Sennon for Head and Heart.
A cordial welcome to all students.
GET READY
-forADVANCE SUNDAY
AT THE OAKLAND METHODIST CHURCH
By Stopping at the
Oakland Community House
FOR READING, REST, RECREATION, INFORMATION 
OPEN ALL DAY EVERY DAY
iiBiiiiniBii
Weve Fitted Feet
Over Fifty Years
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN & FRANKSTOWN AVENUES
| We are now conducting 
our
SEMI-ANNUAL
RED TAG SALE
All Shoes Reduced.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY. FEBRUARY 9, 1921THE TARTANPAGE THREE
PLAID AT H LETIC S -
Oakland Savings & I I On The Plaid Screen
 PLAID BOXERS LOSE IN 
I TODRNEY WITH PENN STATE
Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital - - - $200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits - - - $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - $4,000,000.00
Safe Deposit Boxes for 
Rent
Do You Dance?
Dancing Lesson 
Class and Private
JACQUES DANCING 
ACADEMY
Craig and Forbes
RESTAURANT
VERNON AND CURRY 
Proprietors.
4529 FORBES STREET 
A Bit Small 
But Oh, You Good Eats 
Try us and be convinced.
By STUART P. SMITT
HOCKEY TEAM AND FUTURE
In the few years passed, hockey has been dropped, as a sport at Tech. 
Not because of the lack of material for the development of such a team, but 
rather from the lack of interest shown in the sport. Possibly the lack of 
natural ice has something to do with the indifference of the school toward 
the sport, but now, with the Duquesne Garden so near at hand and accessible, 
Tech should have no difficulty in producing an ice team every year. It is a 
well known fact, that the leading colleges of the east have hockey teams and 
in answer to the question, as to how Techs team compares with them, the 
3-3 tie with the University of Pennsylvania, stands out prominently. The 
graduate manager is arranging games with more colleges this year, and it will 
mean that the support of the student body will be all important, to put these 
games across. The hockey team deserves commendation for their excellent 
work and with such a team representing Tech, on the ice, Plaid followers 
may have optimistic views, and with such a start, there is little doubt that 
the continuance of hockey as a major sport will be a reality.
TRACK PROSPECTS
I
Prospects for another highly successful season in track for 1921 look 
very bright at the present time. Practice begins today and should see a 
large number of veterans turn out, with several new men from this years 
Freshman class who have made excellent high school reputations for them
selves. Tech will be specially strong in the track events and the jumps, but 
the weights are what will bother Coach Iddings. In the 100, 440, one and 
two-mile old men who won consistently last year will be on hand, and in 
these events the Tartans will probably show the greatest strength.
With the exception of the Penn relays the dual meet with Lafayette will 
be the hardest event on the Plaid schedule. Lafayette always turns out first 
class cinder men and they will -come to Pittsburgh; primed for a close meet. 
Unless the other schools on the schedule show a great improvement in their 
teams this year, Tech should take the other meets without any trouble. It' 
the proposed triangular meet with Colgate and Penn State is arranged this 
will give the Skibos a chance to show what they can do in competition with 
twro of the best track teams in the country.
HARRYS
RESTAURANT 
AND LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable prices 
3719 FORBES STREET OAKLAND
BELLEFIELD 
SHOE REPAIR
FINEST WORK
Opposite Library
1I1I!III!IIIIIIIIIIII1I!IM
Tech Barber Shop 
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes | 
Fred Fargel, Proprietor | 
Nearest and Best Laun| 
dry Agency | 
ffli[Biiiiiiiiiiii:!iii:iii;iiiiii]i[iiiii[i!iiiiiiiDiiiiitii!iii!:iiii:ini;in!iiii[nii!iinii[[[i];iii:iii]!iiii;iS
Your Checks 
Carry Two Names
your name and the 
name of your bank. The 
name of a strong bank
ing institution on his 
or her checks is of value 
to the depositor. Pres
tige counts.
Capital and Surplus,
$11,124,136.20
Mellon National Bank
mmm
*r
ALPHA APLHA NU *
* A special meeting of A. A. N., 
will be held in the Puppet Office, -Iat 4:30 p. m., Wednesday, Feb<-
v ruary 9. It is important that *1*
* every member be present.
ALLEGHENY AND WESTINGHOUSE
Allegheny and the Westingliouse Club are on the Tartan basket ball 
schedule for this week, and should end in victories for the Tartans. Coach 
Iddings five defeated the Methodists two weeks ago at Meadville and should 
have no trouble, with them in Pittsburgh. The squad is going through a 
week of intense preparation for their trip through New York State next 
week. This is the most pretentious journey a Plaid basket ball team has ever 
made and everyone is anxious to make a good showing. Colgate, Renssaler, 
Union and Buffalo are on the schedule and all have first rate teams.
TRACK MEN!
Practice starts Wednesday, 
Ferbuary 9.
EVERYBODY OUT 
Report at Langley Lab., 4:30 
p. in.
CLANS BACKING DRIVE
IN ATHLETIC ENDOWMENT
(Continued From Page One.) 
of Techs athletic teams for 1920-21, 
and emphasizing the urgent necessity 
of so endowing the Athletic Associa
tion that it may not be handicapped in 
the future as it has been in the past. 
A committee from the Clan has ar
ranged to get in touch with every 
alumnus in the New York district to 
carry the message through and to get 
every man of that section to subscribe 
at least $10 to the cause. It is the 
plan of the committee to send Mr. 
Haaren the athletic books of any con
tributor who is unable to attend the 
games in person, so that the books 
may be distributed to high school 
students of the city and district, thus 
answering the twofold purpose of 
raising the athletic fund and acquaint
ing future college men with the ad
vantages of Tech.
Bethany, Allegheny, Davis-Elkins, 
Penn State, Washington and Jeffer
son, Dickinson, Bucknell, Oberlln, 
West Virginia Wesleyan Colleges and 
the University of Pittsburgh, Univer
sity of Buffalo, Cornell, Syracuse, 
Fordham and many other schools are 
among the institutions in this sectiqn 
that have either just completed cam
paigns among their alumni or are 
about to begin drives for funds. Many 
of these schools are confining their 
drives exclusively to, the building up 
of athletics through a stadium or 
memorial project. Ohio State recently 
completed an alumni campaign for 
a $1,000,000 stadium, and the alumni 
of the school over-subscribed the 
amount by almost $100,000.
With these examples before Tech 
alumni and the recognition of the un
questioned loyalty of the thousands 
of former students who call Tech their 
Alma Mater, the committee is con
fident that with the opening of the 
campaign on Valentine Day a demontration of the hold Tech has upon 
these alumni and the public will be 
manifested in the contributions 
to the continuance and exten
sion of the athletic program so well 
developed during 1920-21, and that 
succeeding years will reach even 
higher marks.
Bill Says
"Bill Says: Is the medium 
'through which students may express 
their views on any subject regarding 
school life or activities. The edi
tors neither affirm nor deny what is 
said in this column.
All communications must bo signed 
but the writer's name will be with
held from publication.
WHAT DOES
MAGGIE SAY
THE DAVIS
One of the most magnificent 
revues of the vaudeville stage will 
be seen at the Davis Theater next 
week, starting Monday, February 14. i 
when Joseph E. Howard and Ethelyn' 
Clark will present Chin Toh. Cos
tumes, scenery, dances, songs( story, 
dialogue and comedy will all be ol 
the best in addition to the inimitable 
artistry of the clever principals.
THE GRAND
How a young girl left alone in the 
world uses her wits to carry her to 
success and wins despite many dis
couraging developments, forms the 
theme of Constance Talmadges 
siparkling photoplay Good Refer
ences, which will be presented at 
the Grand throughout next week, 
starting Monday, February 14. She 
performs with a vivacious dash, a 
winsome appeal and a subtle delinea
tion that out-classes anything she 
has ever done befcre..
Friday night I wanted a date and 
I had enough spending money to take 
a girl to a show with qupper after
wards at the William Penn. Right 
across the street are the girls dorms, 
with Mellon and Forbes Hall a short 
piece around the corner. But I called 
up a Pitt girl. She was busy .study
ing for examinations and for that 
reason I did not call up any more. 
This is my fourth year on the campus 
and I have not had a date* with a 
Maggie Murph this year. Why? 1 
have learned the costly lesson from 
experience that I was only wasting 
money and not getting anywhere.'
At a dance the first question Maggie 
asks is whether or not you are a frat 
'man. If not she begins to rave about 
one. You cannot ask for an oldfashioned date and spend the evening 
talking of travel, of experience, and 
discussing current events. Not even 
could you ask her to the movies, for 
on her return she would be kidded by 
her girl friendsshe would rather sta\ 
at home. Do you remember how she 
asked you where you wanted her to 
go before she would consent? Back 
home you make a date and then if 
you both feel like going somewhere 
you decide later. Here she goes to the 
highest bidder.
Yet while a Sophomore and Junior I 
was deluded into thinking that I was 
getting my money's worth. Then one 
Saturday night there was to be a dance 
at one of the girls halls. I had just 
spent five or six dollars on her the 
week before and entertained high 
hopes according to social laws by 
which I had been brought up. Discreet
ly I found out afterwards how a girl 
friend had arranged a blin'd date for 
her with a frat man. The writer is a 
Greek letter fraternity man but was 
not so then.
Now I have a stand in with several 
Pitt girls fraternities besides city 
and P. C. Y. acquaintances. At any 
Pitt function I know more girls than I 
know in the Arts and M. M. Divisions, 
and they remember mewhich would 
make any one feel happy. I do not 
know a single girl at the senior Parteas. While looking on I can only 
make contrasts. At a sororitys open 
house the other week I .met a girl who 
I suspicioned fromfcthe start. She did 
not seem to belong there and of 
course did not appeal to me. On find
ing out that she was a Maggie Murph 
I was sure that there was something 
wrong with her. But that did not 
spoil my good time. Another point; 
When I asked some of my best friends 
if they cared to dance they told me to 
ask certain guests. On bringing a Pitt 
girl to a Tech dance she thanks me 
from her heart. On going over to her 
dance she thanks me for coming. And 
I am invited out oftener than I can 
go. I am in debt.
This case Is not that of one Tech 
man and one Maggie Murph and one 
Pitt girl. Each person is really a list, 
a representative list.
A SENIOR.
Make Fine Showing in .-irst InterCollegiate MatchTwo Bouts Go
Extra Rounds.
The Plaid glovemen made a highly 
creditable showing in their first inter
collegiate meet with Penn State last 
Saturday night at State College, but 
were forced to bow before the superior 
skill of the Blue and White boxers. 
All the bouts were fast and evenly 
matched, two of them being extended 
one round in order to make a decision.
Hassell, in the 135-pound cluss, was 
the only Tech man to win his match, 
getting the decision In the first round, 
when he was fouled by Cooper of 
State. Two of the best bouts of the 
evening were between Carafaga and 
Kahley and .Bordner and Campbell. 
Carafaga, who is in the 115 pound 
class, put up a classy exhibition and 
showed he knew how to handle his 
mitts. His match with Kahley was 
declared a draw at the end of three 
rounds, but in the extra period the 
superior punching ability of the State 
man gave him the decision. The bout 
between Bordner and Campbell in the 
160-pound class, also went an extra 
round, Bordner receiving the decision.
The summary:
115-pound classDecision for Kah
ley, State, over Caragaga, Tech. Four 
rounds.
125-ipound classDecision for Grif
fith, 'State, over Martin, Tech. Three 
rounds. 
135-pound classDecision for Has
sell, Tech, over Cooper, State. Foul 
first round.
145-pound classDecision for Atnarish, State, over Witmer, Tech. Three 
rounds.
160-pound class*Decision for Bord
ner, State, over Campbell, Tech. Four 
rounds.
175-pounds class  Knockout for 
Clark, State, oyer McCarty, Tech. 
First round.
HARRISBURG JUNIOR CLASS TO 
HOLD SOCIAL
You dont need hail from Harris
burg in particular. If your home town 
is near there, that is, if you dont come 
within the territory of the Erie, Pitts
burgh or Philadelphia Clans you are 
eligible for membership to the HarrisOn Wednesday, February 9, at. 4:30 
p. m., there will be a little social 
gathering of us in the M. M. D. rec
reation hall. General good time, little 
refreshments, little dance.
SCIENCE NIGHT ASSEMBLY
LAST FRIDAY EVENING
(Continued From Pago One.) 
the part that loyalty to the school ot 
his choice should play in the life of 
the student, and emphasized the fact 
that the man who derives the most, 
benefit from the time spent at college 
is not the man who is continually re
ceiving only, but is the man who gives 
as well as receives.
Mr. Haaren, graduate manager of 
athletics, was the next speaker, and 
talked of the proposed student activ
ities fee for night men. He cleared up 
most of the misunderstanding that had 
existed in regard to this fee, and 
stated exactly to what purpose the 
money paid by the night men would 
be turned to. Mr. Haaren proved to 
the satisfaction of all the men present 
that even from a strictly mercenary 
standpoint the fee is a good Invest
ment for the night men, and then 
touched on the fact that it should be 
considered also in the light of an in
vestment in the teams of the school, 
aiding the building up of successful, 
well-coached varsities, without regard 
to the actual monetary return realized 
by the student on his investment.
Among the business that was taken 
up at the meeting was the question of 
paying the deficit remaining from the 
recent Mid-Year dance and the bill 
for the space taken by Science Night 
men in the Thistle, it being decided 
to collect dues of 25 cents each from 
the men to pay these bills.
The group picture for the Thistle 
was taken before the meeting was 
called to order at 9:30.
TRACK SCHEDULE FOR 
SPRING IS ANNOUNCED
Opens With Penn Relays at Philadel
phia on April 30.
I* v v v *. 1 !* v < 4* *5* v v
Meeting of the C Club, div 
? rectly after  General Assembly, v 
v Wednesday, February 16, at the v 
> Union. A picture will be titlcen 
v of the varsity men with their v 
I* sweaters on, at tills time, for the *. 
Thistle. Every varsity man * 
> should be there with his sweater.
BASKET BALL DANCE COMM.
MAKES REPORT
During the past week W. II. Oak
ley, chairman of the Basket Ball 
Dance Committee, turned over $53.50 
to Graduate Manager Frank Haaren, 
to bo used for the purchase of basket 
ball equipment.
The committee has hold throe 
dances to date and aro making plans 
for the fourth to bo hold on the Gym 
floor, following the games Friday even
ing of this week.
Techs 1921 Track schedule, as an
nounced last week, will open with the 
Penn relays at Philadelphia on April 
30, and calls for three dual meets and 
tin' \V. and .1. intercollegiate later, 
with prospects of a triangular meet at 
State College, between Colgate, 'State 
and Tech.
This year, instead of sending just 
the relay team to Philadelphia, as has 
been the custom, four or five other 
men will be sent to enter in the sprints 
and other events the following day. 
Just what classthe Tartan track men 
will run in has not been determined. 
All the required information has been 
sent to the officials, and a reply giving 
Techs rating is expected soon.
The annual Interscholastic Track 
and Field Day competition will be held' 
on May 7. at, the Schenloy Oval. Last; 
year this meet drew representatives 
from all the high schools in the Pitts
burgh district, and several Ohio 
schools sent, teams, Scott High of 
Toledo, won the relay race with a 
remarkable team, but.it. is not known 
whether they intend to enter in the 
meet this year. Lafayette will com
pete with Tech team In a dual meet 
on the same day.
The schedule follows:
April 30Penn Relays, at Philadel
phia.
May 7 Tech Interscholastic meet 
Lafayette hero.
May 1-1 Open. Prospects Tor tri
angular meet with Colgate and Penn 
State.
May 21Allegheny hero.
May 28W. and .1. Intercollegiate 
at JVashington, Pa.
June IWest Virginia here.
PLEBE BASKET BALL
Frlday night th Froshman team 
suffered a defeat at th hands of th 
Allegheny freshmon, 25 to 21. The 
outstandlng foaturo of th game was 
th iiumber of personal louls calimi' 
by th officiala.
Tlils weok th team w11l talco th 
floor agalnst. th Monongahola High 
School quintot, Friday ovonlng at. th 
Tech Gym., and on Satimlay wlll moot 
th Westlnghouso Hosorvos at Wllklnshurg.
j How is a Wireless 
Message Received?
EVERY incandescent lamp has a filament. Mount a metal 
plate on a wire in the lamp near the filament. A current 
leaps the space between the filament and the plate when the 
filament glows.
Edison first observed this phenomenon in 1883. Hence it was 
called the Edison effect.
Scientists long studied the effect but they could not explain 
it satisfactorily. Now, after years of experimenting with Crookes 
tubes, X-ray tubes and radium, it is known that the current that 
leaps across is a stream of electrons exceedingly minute particles 
negatively charged with electricity.
These electrons play an important part in wireless communica
tion. When a wire grid is interposed between the filament and the 
plate and charged positively, the plate is aided in drawing electrons 
across; but when the grid is charged negatively it drives back the elec
trons. A very small charge applied to the grid, as small as that re
ceived from a feeble wireless wave, is enough to vary the electron 
stream.
So the grid in the tube enables a faint wireless impulse to control 
the very much greater amount of energy in the flow of electrons, and 
so radio signals too weak to be perceived by other means become per
ceptible by the effects that they produce. Just as the movement of 
a throttle controls a great locomotive in motion, so a wireless wave, 
by means of the grid, affects the powerful electron stream.
All this followed from studying the mysterious Edison effect 
a purely scientific discovery.
No one can foresee what results will follow from research in pure 
science. Sooner or later the world must benefit practically from the 
discovery of new facts.
For this reason the Research Laboratories of the General Electric 
Company are concerned as much with investigations in pure science 
as they are with the improvement of industrial processes and products. 
They, too, have studied the Edison effect scientifically. The result 
has been a new form of electron tube, known as the pliotron, a type 
of X-ray tube free from the vagaries of the old tube; and the kenetron, which is called by electrical engineers a rectifier because it 
has the property of changing an alternating into a direct current.
All these improvements followed because the Research Labora
tories try to discover the how of things. Pure science always 
justifies itself.
Generali&Electric
~ CompanyGeneral OfficeSchcncclady, N.Y.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE TARTANWEDNESDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 1921
students. The 
be a student 
tlon for 300 
tti until 10:45.
MF**'
M ARC Yi A RROW 
j Collars
OO Ctuctt,Peabody -Co.Tnc.TVoyRY.limmE^rvjraro -JC
1Judge for yourself/
Special attention is called 
to Murad 20s in Tin Boxes
M. M. D. FOLLIES
(Continued From Pago One.)
ilio red Jokes, kept the intercut alive 
between scenes. Dancing Bubbles, the 
opening chorus besides being unique, 
was mirthful on account of the assumed stage fright that, drove them 
back before it was half over,
Misses Winner and Foster as the 
Cisco Brothers, San and Franthe 
old bell hop scene wore like enough 
the original to secure several encores. 
Miss Richmond, singing the lead for 
the orientai jades, was another bright 
spot. The sotting was well adapted 
and t)ie chorus did its best. The 
Galosh" chorus with their tinkling 
bells and cough, cough, cough, com
posed the committee and were forced 
to come back several times. Miss Palle 
K. Lau, shall I say, since lier name 
did not appetir on the program, closed 
the show with an Hawaiian solo.
.The committee: Minn Paul, manager 
and director; Misa Foster, chorus; 
Miss Reefl. properties; Miss Winner, 
scenes; Miss Sheppard, costumes, and 
Miss Mood, publicity.
VARSITY FOOTBALL MEN
AWARDED LETTERS TODAY
(Continued From Page One.) 
Roger Marshall, Allen Wierman, Ches
ter Hublo, it, L. Pittman, H. L. GrJUIn, 
Paul 1, Unslcker, manager.
Minor C's and gold footballs will bo 
awarded to the following for cross 
country: James Cavett,, CJias. .1.
Code, C. DeV. Miller, K. B. Foster, 
Thos. M, McDonald and Manager Mc
Gill,
A minor C and bar to 0. D. Martin, 
manager of. the Freshmen football 
team.
Sliver footballs will be awarded to 
A. C. Tommol, A. it. Zelt, J. F. Taylor, 
J. E. McCarty, M. E. Wilson and C, E. 
Yockey.
AT THE OAKLAND M. E.
Services on Sunday, February 13, 
at the Oakland M. E. Church. w,n 1,, 
of special interest to 
morning service will be a 
demonstration. A RP ction 
students will be reserved
NEW YORK CLAN | HOLDS BANQUET,
Prominent Tech Men Speak ' 
on Athletic Drive and Conj 
ditions of School -DanceI 
Follows
CLAN NEWS
PITTSBURGH CLAN LUNCHEON
Chamber of Commerce, Saturday, 
February 19, 12 o'clock.
ttMmtmtwmmHwmttimmmmmKmiUimmmmntmwmnttmnwm!
The Hound of Heaven
will be the sermon topic ofKev.R. E. ScctUam, II. I). 
SUNDAY MORNING, FEB. 1'3 
Be on time with your ticket to 
STUDENT
YmmtinmwtwfflmtwimiimimtmnwttKwiitimffliismiwfflimmfflmiTOiiw
SKI BO INN
Remodeled and 
Enlarged 
CLEAN, 
WHOLESOME, 
FOOD 
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
C. M. Stauft
't I #1 O IC C* J..I.1 1.
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS
Engineer* equipment. Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
nnd Grown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K ELLIOT CO.
120 SIXTH STREET
FRANK ! BROTHERS
FIFTH AVENUE BOOT SHOP
NEAR FORTY-EIGHTH STREET, NEW YORK 
BOOTS, SLIPPERS, HOSIERY FOR MEN, WOMEN 
AND CHILDREN
Pittsburgh, Jenkins Arca.d
CHICAGO
Michigan Blvd.
Bldg. Corner' 
Washington St.
ST. LOUIS 
Arcade Building
NEW HAVEN 
Hotel Taft 
BOSTON 
Little Building 
CLEVELAND 
Athletic Club 
Building
WASHINGTON
Woodward Bldg. 
opp. Shoroliui 
Hotel
SAN FRANCISCO
Whitney Bldg. 
133 Geary St.
BATTERY 
Exide 
SERVICE
IRON CITY ELECTRIC CO. f
y4
XBaum and Mellwood $ 
All Kinds of Batteries | 
Repaired & Recharged %
lllinilll!llll!lllllllllllltlil!l!lll!IIIIIIUllllllllllllllilllllllllllilUlll1IIIllllll!llllllllll!llllllUII!l>lllllllll!l]|lllUllll!lllllllllllIlllll!llllllllllllllllllllll!llll]|Uinil!UIIIII!ll|l 
STECH CAFETERIA
LANGLEY LABORATORY 
Under Supervision of Varsity Clan 
| , OUR
EATS AND PRICES
CANT BE BEAT 
ENOS KIRKPATRICK, Manager
llllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllll!llllllllUllllllll!lllllll!!lllllUIII|llllllllllllllUII!l!llll!ll!l!llllllll!ll|lll|ll!l||||||lll||inil!llll|||||||l!l!lll|||[|||||l|||||||!|||||||l||||||||lll|!l|l
The Musical Organizations will be 
entertained by the Alumni, after 
which they will give a concert in the 
auditorium for the members of the 
Chamber of Commerce.
The second annual banquet of the 
New York Clan was held on Saturday 
night in tin,* Green room of the McAlpin Hotel, New York City. About 
7:00 o'clock the members and their 
'iiests began to arrive on the west 
balcony of the Mezzanine floor where 
they were greeted by the reception 
committee. It was particularly grat
ifying to the committee lo see so 
many of the wives and sweethearts of 
the members on hand. The numbers 
had soon swelled to such an extent 
that additional space had to be pro
vided. The., doors of the Green room 
were thrown open about 7:45 and all 
took their respective places at the 
Iables. The room was tastefully dec
orated with palms which added in a 
measure to its natural beauty. About 
00 persons took places at the tables 
to the music of a 5-piece orchestra, 
which furnished music during the 
dinner and for the dance afterward.
Among the invited guests were Mr. 
James Bertram of the Carnegie Cor
poration, Director A. A. Hammerschlag 
of the Schools, Dr. Savage, fonnely of 
Tech's Athletic Administration, and 
Former; Dean Connelly, who is now 
with the State Department at Harris
burg. Other guests were Mr. L. TO. 
JCxllne, president of the Philadelphia 
Clan; Mr. Caldren and Mr. Lappley, 
also from Philadelphia; Mr. Lowrie, 
president of the Harrisburg Clan, and 
Mr. Shaub, also fro;n Harrisburg; Mr. 
Rutherford and wife, from Hartford 
Clan; Mr. Parker, who is now with 
the Government Air Mail Service; Mr. 
Fritz Oflinger, from Port Chester, and 
Mr. Tillbrook, from Pittsburgh.
During the dinner Mr. Ketchum of 
the Estes Corporation of New Jersey 
gave a short talk In behalf of the 
ahtjetie drive that is now holding the 
attention of the alumni and under
graduates. The first speaker of the 
evening, introduced by President 
Patterson, was our old friend, Dean 
Connelly. He made a short talk full 
of reminiscences of the early days at 
Tech and his anecdotes, full of humor, 
were indeed a palatable dessert to the 
dinner. Mr. Bertram spoke briefly as 
he had to rush to catch a train. 
Director llammorschlag spoke to 
length of the past, present and future 
>f Tech. lie quoted from the heads 
of some of the largest industrial cor
porations of the country their opinions 
on the quality and character of the 
product Tech Is producing. The direct
or Is constantly coming In contact 
with big business men who are look
ing for the Ultra-Technical class. We 
wore assured by the director that Tech 
an and will produce the goods.
Mr. Tillbrook, the alumni secretary, 
gave the New York Clan a mossage 
from the Cpniirilttoo on Representa
tion on (he Board of Trustees. The 
of the school depends to a large 
extent upon the activity of its alumni 
body in co-operation with this board. 
Ho stated that Tech is the only high 
lass technical school in the country 
that does not have alumni representa
tion on Its board of trustees, it Is Im
perative if Tech is to profit material
ly. Under the present system of enlowment Tech Is severely handi
capped because adequate provision for 
the lfmlntenanco and upkeep of the 
plant and structure of the Institute 
was not fully made during the life of 
the founder. If possible to secure 
representation on this board the alum
ni will have made their opening wedge 
toward a perpetual part of the en
dowment to carry the Schools over. 
It. Is toward this object that the alum
ni is asked to bend all its efforts.
Among the other speakers were D. 
Savage. Mr. Exling, Mr. Lowrie and 
Mr. Shaub.
After the speeches the toastmaster 
asked for a rising vote of thanks to 
the committee who had made the ban
quet a big success. Dancing followed 
till a late hour.
AKRON CLAN
The Akron Clan will hold a meeting 
Tuesday, February 15, at the Chelsea 
Club. Officers for the coming year 
will be elected and plans talked over 
whereby the clan will become a 
stronger unit of the Alumni Associa
tion.
Dr. Frederick Ayers, Dean of the 
Engineering School of the University 
of Akron, is expected to be present; 
Dr. Ayers was a recent visitor at 
Tech, being on the commission which 
has just completed an investigation of 
the school.
,/Y representative from Tech will be 
present to tell of all the late news 
around school and also to give an 
outline of athletics for this year.
It is necessary that every Tech man 
and woman in and around Akron be 
present at the meeting.
CLANS
To the officers of every Tech Clan, 
please bear in mind that the Tartan 
is now being read by over 2,000 grad
uates and former students. It is very 
important that all clan news appear 
in the Tartan for it is one of the best 
ways to keep the alumni together.
We would like to urge the secretary 
of every clan to be responsible for 
sending into the alumni office notices 
and results of every meeting.
The alumni office is trying to do 
everything to make the association 
one of the stropgest in the country. 
The clans can do their part by re
sponding to the above request and act 
as the right arm to the association.
The Alumni Association of the 
Division of Arts held their regular 
meeting in the Arts Building last 
Wednesday evening. Mr. M. M. Steen, 
president, presided. A social affair is 
to be held in the future, the object 
being to interest the alumni in the 
association. Mr. Rigamount was ap
pointed chairman of a committee to 
arrange for the event. There are 70 
paid up members, 50 who live in 
the Pittsburgh district. There certain
ly should be a much better showing 
at the meetings. Any one who ha 
not paid their 1920 dues should mail 
them to Mrs. James I. Johnson, Craig 
street.
Ballots for the election of officers 
for the following year will be mailed 
about March 1. Alumni are reminded 
of this so that they may begin think
ing of who they want.
The following graduates and former 
students visited the Alumni Office 
during the past week: F. A. Faville, 
S. 20; C. R. Dobson, S. '20; D. B. 
Shiliiday, S. '20; F. C. Rodgers. I. 18; 
J. IT. Speer, Jr., Association; H. i&E 
Fox, I. 16; H. E. Melaney, I. '20; J. 
A. Farr S. '19.
Saturday, February 12, the Potomac 
Club will have a Theater party. The 
entertainment committee, who have 
shown that they are able to live up 
to their name, will provide a program 
that will interest any member. All 
those that have not signed up yet for 
that event, will please see W. E. 
Lange, or F. Z. Hougli, Science.
AUFHAiiER'&EVAN
HATS
and
Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
RIFLE TEAM STARTS ITS
SHOOTFIRST MATCH
(Continued From Page One.) 
telegraphic matches will be shot with 
Harvard, Princeton and Colgate.
Ten more rifles are expected to ar
rive within the next few days and the 
inter-class matches will then be shot. 
A cup is offered to the class making 
the highest score.
Anothor match of special interest to 
Freshmen is the Freshmen champion
ship match. Messrs. Thompson and 
Harwood have offered a cup to the 
winner of this match. The rules for 
ihis match are:
(1) Eligibility: Any man with a
Fresh m an registration card (club 
member and others).
(2) Two targets to bo shot, per 
week for five weeks.
, (3) The Freshman making the 
highest total i shall bo recognized as 
"Champion.
Further particulars will be pub
lished on the bulletin boards of the 
schools.
ZIONIST SOCIETY MEETS
Mr. Kaleigai of Palestine will speak 
to the Collegiate Zionist Society on 
Sunday, February 13. at the Hebrew 
Institute, corner of Wylie avenue and 
Green St.
INDUSTRIES ALUMNI
= SMOKER =
Carnegie Union Thursday, February 17
8:00 P. M.
OUR GUESTSThe Faculty and
1921 Graduating Class.
We will have a jazz orchestra, quartet, pictures, boxing 
and wrestling matches, Topics of the Day, Smokes and Eats.
NO ADMISSIONYour face will let you in.
BE THERE
Yo\) CNN 
STClkttYOUfc 
u-nue
A
YJttOlE LOT 
GETTER\r 
VOO'KE 
DKESSfcD
W
HATEVER youve got to say 
to your fellowmen you will 
elocute more convincingly and 
will be given a more respectful 
hearing by a more respectful au
dience if you are properly 
dressed.
You cant afford not to invest 
in one of our moderately priced, 
fashionable suits.
Our clothes and prices will in
terest you.
Entire stock of Suits and . 
Overcoats now on sale at
$35.00
THE TURKISH --- CIGARETTE
Mrs. Fox was bragging one day about the large 
number of her cubs.
How many cubs do you bring into the world at 
one time? she asked the LIONESS.
Only ONE, replied the Lionessbut is a 
LION.
MURADS COST 20 CENTS for a BOX 
of 1BUT THEYRE MURADS'!
MURADS would be lower priced if we left out 
all or part of the 100% Turkish tobaccos of the purest 
and beit varieties grownor if we substituted inferior 
grades of Turkish tobacco.
But they wouldnt be MUR ADStheyd only be 
Foxes!
