THE TARTAN
Grant aids advanceJob fairs provide career opportunities
Construction workers took time out from building the Purnell Center last week to share stories and eat lunch together.
CMU resumes search for 
honorary degree recipients
; By CHRISTINA WONG
| Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Honorary degrees will be awarded 
 at Carnegie Mellons commence
ment in the spring for the first time 
since 1990. President Jared Cohon 
decided to revive the practice and 
has formed a committee of 11 people 
to evaluate potential recipients of 
this award.
The committee, which consists of 
the Provost, seven members of the 
faculty, a member of the Board of 
I Trustees, the President of the un
dergraduate student body, and the 
^ President of the graduate student 
assembly, will receive nominations 
from the Carnegie Mellon commu| nity until October 28, and decide on 
15 people to recommend for honor| ary degrees.
The committee is a terrific com
mittee. It works well together, withii broad thinkers, [and] well-respected 
faculty members.... Its basically a 
jj good group of people who respect
each other, said Director of the 
Presidents Office Robyn Choi.
We are still looking for nomina
tions, said student body president 
and junior history major Sarah 
Gross. The main thing were look
ing for are people who have made 
significant contributions to society 
orthe Carnegie Mellon community.
The recipients of an honorary 
degree can be awarded a Doctor of 
Business Practice, a Doctor of Fine 
Arts, a Doctor of Humane Letters, 
a Doctor of Public Policy, or a Doc
tor of Science and Technology.
What were doing is gathering 
nominations. [The committee] will 
select from a broad group and nar
row it down to 15, said Choi. Dr. 
Cohon will select up to six nomi
nees and then present those he 
selected to the Board of Trustees 
in January for their approval. 
Choi works for the committee but 
is not involved in the decision
making process.
Please see HONORARY, page 4
By SRIRAM GOLLAPALLITartan Junior Staffwriter
Last Thursday and Friday, 
Carnegie Mellon held the an
nual Business Opportunities 
Conference (BOC) and the Tech
nical Opportunities Conference 
(TOC). These conferences al
lowed students to meet with 
many different corporations and 
obtain possible job or internship 
opportunities.
Ryan Kruger, a senior busi
ness administration major and 
member of the Association for 
Industrial Management and Eco
nomics (AIME), organized this 
years BOC.
This years BOC was a huge 
success based on a team effort 
depending on student volun
teers, said Kruger. It was excit
ing to see new companies offering 
more exciting business opportu
nities to students. Students had 
the chance to meet with 44 differ
ent business-oriented companies 
at the BOC in Rangos Hall.
It was a great way to meet 
companies and get to talk to rep
resentatives, said Scott Seibert, 
a senior psychology major and 
business minor. When I find a 
company that interests me, I talk 
about my major and find out if 
they have something to offer me.
Unfortunately, during the 
morning hours of the event, a 
University Cente^i fire alarm 
sounded, and everyone had to
evacuate Rangos 
Hall. However, this 
did not stop some 
students meeting 
with companies.
Even during the 
fire drill, I was con
ducting informal in
terviews, said Judy 
Pugh, manager for 
Corporate Opera
tions & Systems at 
the Prudential In
surance Company, a 
company participat
ing in the BOC.
Although the BOC 
was primarily di
rected towards jun
iors and seniors, re
cruiters recom
mended that inter
ested underclass
men should get sum
mer internships at 
companies that interested them. 
Pugh said that even though Pru
dential does not directly hire firstyear students or sophomores, they 
sponsor projects for them to work 
on. They want to get their infor
mation out to as many people as 
possible.
The students [at CMU] are 
much more focused and have a 
better idea of what they are look
ing for. They are very good at 
selling themselves, said senior 
manager for Dell Computer Cor
poration Lindsey Green.
I was amazed with the numRecruiters greeted students warmly last Thursday at the BOC.
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
A recruiter at the BOC goes over company information with an interested student.
ber of double and triple majors 
and the early awareness shown 
by the first-year students and 
sophomores, said Fleet Mar
keter for the Ford Motor Com
pany, Deepak Ahuja.
There were many interested, 
motivated, and smart kids, said 
senior technical recruiter for 
America Online Laura Gordon. 
CMU students are very wellrounded.
Recruiters said that these job 
fairs were organized and the vol
ume of students and companies 
was incredible. When compared 
to other schools, 
these j ob fairs have 
ranked highly. 
Brandon Lamb of 
Andersen consult
ing said he felt that 
this year was 
busier than last 
year and that the 
fair was much bet
ter than other 
schools.
Teresa Dietrich, 
a senior social and 
decision sciences 
major, was the 
chairperson and 
organizer of this 
years TOC. The 
Society of Women 
Engineers and the 
Institute of Elec
trical and Elec
tronics Engineers 
provided volun
teers to help throughout the day. 
Representatives from 172 com
panies attended the TOC, allow
ing students to meet with such 
companies as Microsoft, Intel, 
Lucent Technologies, and Sci
ence Applications International 
Corporation.
I have found very enthusiastic 
and engaging students, said 
Omar Antigua, a sales represen
tative for International Paper and 
1998 CMU graduate. I am sur
prised with the undergraduate 
interest. It Is intriguing to be 
looking at this job fair from the 
corporate side. They look for stu
dents to fit a specific mold for 
certain jobs.
Justin Fidler, a 1997 graduate 
and recruiter for IntraActive, 
found an enormous number of 
interested students at the TOC. 
His firm attracted students with 
such options as free high-speed 
modem connections to homes and 
a fun working environment.
Most of the students enjoyed 
the job fairs and met many inter
esting people and formed connec
tions for future possibilities.
It was really helpful in finding 
lots of opportunities, said sopho
more information and decision 
systems and economics double 
major Erin Medlin. It gives a 
better -view of what you can do 
with a combined major.
While some students were hand
ing out their resumes at the BOC 
Please see JOBS, page 6
in surgical methods
By TREVORMEYEROWITZTartan Staffwriter
This month, the National Sci
ence Foundation (NSF) awarded 
a $12.9 million five-year renew
able grant to the Medical Robot
ics and Computer Assisted Sur
gery (MRCAS) Department at 
CMU, as well as MIT and Johns 
Hopkins. The grant forms an 
Engineering Research Center 
for Computer-Integrated Sur
gical Systems and Technology 
to be shared among the three 
institutions. It also provides for 
a student fellowship.
In addition to promoting the 
exchange of knowledge, the es
tablishment of the center opens 
the door for the universities to 
exchange students.
Its a new engineering re
search center, said Dr. Takeo 
Kande, director of the Robotics 
Institute at CMU. The goal is 
to do research on surgical ro
bots or the medical applications 
of robots, to work with industry 
to transfer knowledge, and to 
transfer knowledge to students. 
For that purpose Johns 
Hopkins, which already has a 
large program, MIT, and [CMU] 
established this program. Each 
of us has a particular area of 
expertise.
The schools are also 
partnering with three differ
ent hospitals: Shadyside Hos
pital, Brigham Womens hos
pital in Boston, and Johns 
Hopkins hospital.
The participating hospitals 
and universities are donating 
an additional $8.1 million to the 
project, and industry donors 
have pledged over $1 million.
Im excited about this. With 
our unique and strong abilities 
in robotics combined with the 
two leading institutions in the 
area we will be able to expand 
in the area, said Kanade. Also 
this will be great for the stu
dents to provide greater re
search opportunities. We will 
be able to expand the scope and 
horizon of thinking into a much 
broader and deeper level.
The MRCAS center at CMU 
was founded in 1993 as a joint
venture between the Robotics 
Institute and Shadyside Hos
pital. This venture, along with 
its sister lab, the Center for 
Orthopedic Research at 
Shadyside Hospital, has pro
duced many new ideas. One of 
the first results of the joint 
venture is the Hip Nav sys
tem which helps align hip re
placements to reduce the 
chance of femur fracture. So 
far, this system has been 
tested on cadavers and aligned 
the hips within 1.5 degrees of 
accuracy.
One of the current projects 
between the two centers is 
called 3D image overlay, a medi
cal imaging device that projects 
3D images of X-rays and other 
data onto the patient.
We call it Superman view 
where the doctor (via the projec
tion) can see into the patients 
body. Even when the doctor or 
patients moves, the display is 
appropriately transformed and 
moved as if it was part of the 
patients body, said Kanade.
MIT also has image process
ing programming, and Johns 
Hopkins has a tremor-reduction program to reduce the 
effect of hands shaking 
slightly during surgery.
One of the people working on 
this project is Devin Amin, a 
MD/PhD student at CMU and 
Pitt and the recent recipient of 
the MRCAS fellowship.
My project is to align ultra
sound images with a CT de
rived model, said Amin. Cur
rently, they use an instru
mented probe which accu
rately measures the coordi
nates of any point in space. 
Intraoperatively, they touch 
it to the exposed bony sur
faces.... The instrumented 
probe has to be touched to the 
exposed bone, the ultrasound 
could provide a non-invasive 
way to register the patients to 
the environment.
[The center] is beneficial be
cause it... [allows] the work to 
proceed faster, with the end 
resulting goal of getting this 
technology to the patients as 
quickly as possible, said Amin.
Inside
Calendar..................:..........L12Classified..............................11Comics................................L5Diversions..............................L7Living.................................LIForum:..................................8Sports.................................12
Forum
Writer dislikes creatine 
 see page 9
Diversions
Take a peek backstage 
 see page L7
Features
Examine CMU honor societies 
 see page LI
&X

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 September 1998
 
Proposed tax cuts dip 
into budget surplus
WASHINGTON (AP) - An $80 bil
lion Republican tax cut calculated to 
appeal to millions of middle-class 
Americans, from two-income married 
couples to financially strapped farm
ers, passed the House in a unusual 
Saturday session.
President Clinton immediately re
newed his threat to veto the electionyear bill because it would spend a 
small part of the $1.6 trillion budget 
surplus forecast over the next decade 
instead of holding all of it until Social 
Security is safeguarded.
I will insist that we reserve the 
entire surplus until we have seized 
this historic opportunity to save Social 
Security, and veto any bill that doesnt 
meet that principle, Clinton said dur
ing a fund-raising trip to California.
But with only six weeks until the 
congressional elections, Republicans 
were determined to push through a 
relatively small tax cut that would 
remind voters of their top priorities. 
The House passed the measure 229- 
195, sendingit to the Senate, where its 
future is less certain.
Republicans believe that Americans 
have worked hard for their money and 
deserve to keep as much of it as pos
sible, House Speaker Newt Gingrich 
(R-Ga.) said in the GOP response to 
Clintons weekly radio address. We 
want to return your money to you so 
that you can spend it on your own 
priorities, the speaker added.
The bill, which totals $80 billion 
over five years, would benefit married 
couples, farmers, small business op
erators, working senior citizens, people 
with modest savings accounts, and 
students saving for private colleges. It 
also would extend several expiring tax 
credits sought by big business and 
would allow school districts to keep 
more bond proceeds for construction.
Crafted for maximum political ap
peal, more than half the tax cuts would 
go to families with incomes under
$75,000, according to the Joint Com
mittee on Taxation. The main sponsor, 
Ways and Means Committee Chair
man Bill Archer, said the bill would 
continue to reverse four decades of 
Democratic control of Congress that 
ended in 1994. We tried your way. For 
40 years we squandered peoples taxes 
and we increased spending, said Ar
cher (R-Texas). Now its our turn.
Republicans hoped the popular tax 
items would pressure Democrats into 
supporting the bill or force them into 
uncomfortable positions on the cam
paign trail. Nineteen Democrats did 
vote for the measure, but the margin 
was far short of the two-thirds major
ity necessary to override a presiden
tial veto.
This tax cut bill is not going any
where, said Representative David 
Minge (D-Minn.).
Those cloudy prospects did not stop 
the sharp election-year rhetoric in the 
House, most of which centered around 
the impact ofthe cuts on Social Security.
Democrats demanded that Congress 
first ensure the solvency of the retire
ment plan  which could run out of 
money as baby boomers retire by 2030
 before reducing any taxes. They 
repeatedly accused the Republicans of 
a raid on Social Security to gain 
short-term favor with voters.
Their message to the American 
people is that the election is more 
important to the Republican Party 
than Social Security, said Represen
tative Dick Gephardt of Missouri, the 
House Democratic leader.
GOP leaders also contended that 
because Clinton has asked for at least 
$9.25 billion in emergency spending 
that effectively comes out of the sur
plus, Democrats were wrong to argue 
against using the surplus for tax cuts.
If you vote no on returning the money 
to the American people, dont turn 
around and vote to spend it on bigger 
and bigger government, Gingrich said.
Weak earthquake 
hits Pennsylvania
SHARON, Penn. (AP)  The clerks at 
Reyers shoe outlet were sure somebody 
had knocked boxes to the floor above 
them when they felt the store rumble.
Then you realized it was an earth
quake, because the whole building was 
shaking, said Jessie Jones, 19, at the 
store about 60 miles northwest of Pitts
burgh. It was like you lost your equilib
rium, like your knees buckled.
The earthquake that hit at 3:52 pm 
EDT Friday had a magnitude of 5.2 and 
shook buildings in at least four states. 
The quake was centered in northwest 
Pennsylvania about 15 miles northeast 
of Sharon, according to the U.S. Geologi
cal Survey in Golden, Colo.
There were no reports of injuries or 
significant structural damage, but there 
were plenty of startled people in a region 
unaccustomed to quake activity.
I thought the whole house was going 
to fall down. It shook that hard. I thought 
it was a tornado, said Patty Cook, 28, of 
Jamestown, a small town near the 
quakes epicenter.
The quake was also felt in Ohio, Michi
gan, and in the Buffalo, N.Y., area but was 
still relatively minor, said John Minsch, 
geophysicist for the Geological Survey.
The Vocal Group Hall of Fame and 
Museum shimmied in downtown Sharon.
Emergency dispatchers were swamped 
with calls  most from people who just 
wanted to know what had happened, 
said Lester Pfaff of the Crawford County 
Office of Emergency Services.
The last earthquake reported in Penn
sylvania was a 2.3 magnitude in Febru
ary 1996 in Berks County.
Boys suffocate 
in parents trunk
GREENSBORO, Penn. (AP) - The 
parents of two young boys who flocked 
themselves in a car trunk and suffocated 
have been charged with involuntary man
slaughter and child endangerment.
Carl Wright, 26, and Sherry Wright, 
22, were charged Tuesday because of a 
lack of supervision when their children
died August 2, state trooper Jeffrey 
Cermak said.
After Wright went to work, sons Chris
topher, 5, and Drew, 2, took two puppies 
into the trunk and pulled the lid shut. 
Their bodies were found six hours later. 
They had been dead about an hour.
Mrs. Wright had returned from an 
overnight shift and was asleep when 
her children went playing in this 
town of 380 people south of Pittsburgh, 
authorities said.
We do not expect to exact a punish
ment more severe than the experience of 
the death of their children, prosecutor 
David Pollock said. But we do feel some 
responsibility to ensure the well-being 
of their third child.
Patients criticize 
AIDS drug prices
WILMINGTON, Del. (AP) - For some 
time, Eric Sawyer has been taking Sustiva 
as part of DuPont Pharmaceuticals 
clinical trials of the AIDS drug. As a 
result, he said, his level of HIV infection 
is virtually undetectable.
Thats the good news.
The bad news is, now that Sustiva has 
been approved for sale by the federal Food 
and Drug Administration, many HTV-infected people may be unable to afford it in 
addition to other drugs they are taking, an 
AIDS activist group said Thursday.
Pricing it between $4,000 and $5,000 
for this particular drug would make my 
drugtherapy cost about $30,000 ayear, 
said Sawyer, 44, who travelled from New 
York to participate in Act Up 
Philadelphias protest outside DuPont 
Co. headquarters.
The FDA approved Sustiva last week. 
The drug has to be taken in conjunction 
with others currently in use.
Demanding that the company slash 
the drugs price, the group dumped empty 
pill bottles from a black coffin onto the 
sidewalk to emphasize its points. Walk
ing en masse to the headquarters and 
carrying a black banner that said, 
DuPont Pharma: GreedDeath, about 
120 protesters chanted, We die, they 
make money.
DuPont issued only a brief statement, 
which reiterated the companys belief 
that Sustiva  also known as efavirenz
 is fair and reasonable. Sustiva is 
priced in the middle of the range for 
currently marketed antiretrovirals to 
treat HIV/AIDS, said the statement.
But activists said the price has al
ready affected some, claiming staterun AIDS drug programs in California 
and Pennsylvania have ruled out pay
ing for Sustiva because of the cost. 
DuPont said the drug will be available 
for just under $4,000 a year, but the 
protesters argued that once it is marked 
up for sale to people, the actual cost will 
be more like $5,000.
Disney executive 
fears Microsoft
SEATTLE (AP) - Whos afraid of the 
big, bad... Microsoft?
Michael Eisner is.
In his new book, Work in Progress, the 
Chairman and Chief Executive of Walt 
Disney Co. says the Redmond-based soft
ware company may be our most daunt
ing competitor.
Microsoft, while a giant in its field,' 
has annual revenues of only $14.5 bil
lion and a spotty record in trying to' 
generate entertainment content.
But Eisner doesnt see it that way.
In a telephone press conference Thurs
day, he said Microsofts cash flow, its' 
enormous buying power, its aggres
siveness, and the youth of its employee 
base are a formula for competition. !
Additionally, Bill Gates, the companys' 
chairman, is a competitor to be watchedbecause he combines youth, money, in
telligence, and an interest in the enter
tainment business, Eisner said.
He didnt hazard a guess on exactly how! 
Gates will use his interest and cash in the 
entertainment field, but he said that 
Microsoft has a tradition of starting slowly 
in other businesses only to make improve
ments and become highly successful.
Disney has been sufficiently intrigued' 
by the potential of the Internet to add it 
to its portfolio.
Its already selling merchandise 
online. In June, Disney agreed to pay 
$70 million cash plus its interest in 
Web development company Starwave 
for a 43 percent stake in Infoseek Corp., 
the nations seventh-largest search and 
directory service.
Palestinians await independence as peace accords near expiration
GAZA CITY, Gaza Strip (AP)  
Theres no such place as Palestine.
Legally and diplomatically, it 
doesnt exist. In the eyes of the 
world, if not the Palestinian 
people, its a would-be country, a 
state of mind, a nation in waiting.
Now, Yasser Arafat says that 
wait is nearly over.
In a speech to the U.N. General 
Assembly on Monday, the Pales
tinian leader is poised to make 
his boldest bid yet to turn state
hood dreams to reality a scant 
seven months from now.
For many Palestinians  furi
ous about stalled peace negotia
tions with Israel and desperate 
over their ever-worsening 
economic plight  even a 
perilous step like this is better 
than leaving matters as 
they stand.
Its time, its time, said Abed 
Absi, 33, who runs a hole-in-thewall garment factory in one of 
Gaza Citys sprawling refugee 
camps. Look around  even if 
we lose everything, what is it 
that we really lose?
Arafat has said for months that 
barring some negotiating break
through, the Palestinians were 
likely to proclaim statehood as 
soon as the interim Oslo peace 
accords expire  on May 4,1999, 
according to the Palestinian in
terpretation. Even if what he says 
on Monday doesnt differ greatly 
from previous Palestinian state
ments, the setting dramatically 
raises the stakes.
Until now, such talk largely 
has been viewed here as a Pales
tinian bargaining tactic, meant 
to prod Israel into moving ahead
with long-delayed troop pull
backs. But a direct appeal by 
Arafat for international support 
for an independent Palestine  
delivered from center stage at 
the United Nations  carries 
far more symbolic weight.
And it comes only four days 
after Israeli Prime Minister Ben
jamin Netanyahu used his own 
appearance before the world body 
to deliver a blunt warning to the 
Palestinians: Dont do it. Such 
actions will inevitably prompt 
unilateral responses on our part, 
Netanyahu said Thursday.
Israel hasnt said publicly 
what its reaction would be, but 
possible steps include annex
ation of West Bank and Gaza 
Strip land still under its con
trol, plus an economic boycott of 
the fledgling state.
There is also considerable risk 
of violent confrontation. The mili
tary establishments of both sides
 in veiled but unmistakable lan
guage  have acknowledged they 
are preparing for the possibility 
of all-out warfare.
The Palestinians know they are 
hopelessly outgunned, but take 
every opportunity to remind Israel 
that an impassioned popular up
rising can stand up to overwhelm
ing military superiority. The 
intefadeh, they say, proved that.
We will fight to defend our 
state and existence by all means 
available, Palestinian intelli
gence chief Amin el-Hindi said 
last week.
Despite the dangers, the loom
ing showdown already could be 
helping to break the long deadlock 
in Israeli-Palestinian negotiations.
It may be no coincidence that 
the only real movement in months 
comes as the Palestinians aggres
sively press their statehood cause: 
Netanyahu on Friday formally 
confirmed for the first time he 
was ready to accept a U.S. pro
posal for Israel to withdraw from 
an additional 13 percent of the 
West Bank.
Both sides have reasons for 
wanting to abandon the Oslo ac
cords, and the statehood quarrel 
could provide a pretext for that.
Netanyahu has only grudg
ingly accepted the commitment 
to the Oslo accords made by 
Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, 
and the Palestinians have all 
but given up hope it can further 
their cause. Sticking with the 
process also has eroded Arafats 
street credibility.
But money, not politics, could 
prove the greatest divisive force. 
Palestinian planners hope formal 
statehood will boost foreign aid 
and investment, but corruption 
and lack of accountability in 
Arafats Palestinian Authority 
already may have cooled enthu
siasm.
And statehood that failed to 
bring about real change in 
peoples daily lives could be disil
lusioning, and thus dangerous. 
That already can be seen in Gaza, 
which has been self-ruled since 
mid-1994.
With statehood, itll be just 
like it has been so far with 
the Palestinian Authority  only 
a few will see the fruits, and 
the rest of us will keep 
suffering, Gaza laborer Taysir 
Hamman said.
Four-Day Forecast
Tuesday
Wednesday
Sunny.
Hi 73 Lo 46
Scattered T-storms. 
Hi 74 Lo 55
Thursday
Friday
50 YEARS AGO, October 13, 
1948  Some of the boys in the 
Kiltie band made a trip to Toronto, 
Canada to purchase 90 yards of 
plaid material for $5.75 a yard. 
Unable to leave Canada for 48 
hours because of customs diffi
culties, the boys spent then week
end enjoying the sights and 
sounds of the city. Unfortunately, 
further complications with U.S. 
customs officials forced the boys 
to abandon the cloth at the bor
der so they could return to school 
for Monday classes.
25 YEARS AGO, October 16, 
1973  Smaller fraternities 
claimed that a new university rule 
preventing freshmen from visit
ing fraternity houses except dur
ing official rush social functions
_________________________________________ was unfair. The rule was intended
from National Weather Service bulletins and other sources to give smaller fraternities an
Partly Cloudy. 
Hi 67 Lo 52
Sunny.
HI 60 Lo 44
Carnegie Almanac
equal chance at soliciting fresh
men, given the better financed 
rush events of larger houses.
The smaller fraternities com
plained that extra time was 
needed to communicate with fresh
men, because they could not af
ford large and expensive parties. 
The larger fraternities did not have 
any objections to the new rule.
10 YEARS AGO, October 4, 
1988  Construction occurred in 
Margaret Morrison Hall in order 
to consolidate the College of Fine 
Arts, which had been located in 
different buildings around cam
pus. The plans intention was to 
have Design, Architecture, 
Drama, and Music located in 
Margaret Morrison.
Several complaints about the 
$3.5 million renovation were made 
on account of inconveniences due
to construction. However, the 
changes were deemed necessary 
because CFA was too spread out.
FIVE YEARS AGO, Septem
ber 27, 1993 - CMU fell in the U.S. News and World Report col
lege rankings, dropping from 19 
to 24. CMUs total score was 
86.5 out of 100 points, and the 
University was tied with Emory 
University and the University of 
Notre Dame. The Universitys 
lower ranking came despite an 
increase in the graduation rate 
and a decrease in the acceptance 
rate. CMU was ranked just be
low the University of Michigan. 
Harvard University was ranked 
number one.
ONE YEAR AGO, September 
29, 1997 Acclaimed author of Ishmael, Daniel Quinn, made the
keynote speech for the CMU Student Pugwash Conference. 
Quinn addressed the conference 
theme, Technologies at Peace, 
by speaking extensively about 
technologies that are seemingly 
peaceful, but are in fact detri
mental to the environment.
Quinn cited one example as in
creased food production being 
viewed as a worthy cause, when 
in fact it causes population explo
sion. In addition, Quinn com
mented on humans strange no
tion that all things involving natu
ral processes are good, while ev
erything manmade is unhealthy.
At first there was no micro
phone to assist Quinn during his 
speech, so he simply raised his 
voice so that all could hear.
Compiled by 
ISH HARSHAWAT

---------------------------------------------------

Back To School Sale!
Sprint PCS
SM
Giving
you
a reason to talk
all night
$24"/
The Sprint PCS8 "All-Nighter!
tw
Plus
nr\I I BMinutes, 
i Anytime
500
Downtown-The Frick Building 
The Shoppes at Penn Center East 
Virginia Manor Shops 
Northway Mall
(412) 434-6400 
(412) 825-4500 
(412) 306-3900 
(412) 630-9000
Night AndWeekend Minutes
100 /min. Long Distance
Includes Voicemail And 
First Incoming Minute Free
Don't miss our Back to School Sale from now through Sept. 30th. 
Visit any Sprint PCS Center to sign up for this great deal!
SprintSprint PCS'
Limited lime offer. Calk that begin in one calling period and end in another calling period will be charged in their entirety at the initial calling period rate. For customers who activate servicc on identified service plan, rates will be valid until the year 2.000. Offer may not be continuously available if service is deactivated or other service changes arc requested by customer. Customer must meet credit requirements for service activation on identified service plan. Service requires a phone compatible with the Sprint PCS Network. Ail-nigh ter hours vary by market, please confirm your All-nighter hours with a local Sprint PCS Representative. Add an additional 10 cents per minute for long-distance charges. Airtime charges apply when accessing voicemail from your Sprint PCS Phone. Offer subject to withdrawal without notice.  1998 Sprint Spectrum L.P. All rights reserved. Sprint and the diamond logo, Sprint PCS and Sprint Personal Coitununications are trademarks and service marks of Sprint Communications Co.. L.P., used under license.

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 September 1998
Group will select 
degree recipients
HONORARY, from page 1
Nomination forms can be picked 
up at any deans office, the UC 
information desk, or the 
Presidents office. The forms are 
available to anyone who is part of 
the Carnegie Mellon community.
According to Provost and Chair 
of the committee Paul Christiano, 
the recipients of the honorary 
degree will not be giving speeches 
during the commencement 
ceremony.This represents a de
parture from the original honor
ary degree ceremony.
[The tradition was] that the 
honorary degree recipients would 
give a brief talk at the commence
ment ceremony. There were usu
ally three or four honorary de
gree recipients, so it started to 
eat up a lot of time, said 
Christiano.
This presentatipn is hoped to 
take up less time during the cer
emony than it has in the past, 
which was the main reason why 
former President Robert Mehrabian halted the practice of pre
senting honorary degrees in 1990. 
Choi said that recipients will be 
on the stage and have a state
ment read about their accom
plishments.
Cohon has decided to reinstate 
the offering of honorary degrees
because he feels that, among 
other attributes, it enhances 
the Universitys stature.
The criteria Im looking at 
is, first and foremost, a person 
with a record of great and dis
tinguished accomplishment in 
a field within Carnegie Mellons 
domain, said Cohon.
I think [the honorary degree] 
is a chance to recognize great
ness. I think that Carnegie 
Mellon doesnt have as big of a 
name as some other [universi
ties] that we compete with and 
that putting our name out can 
attract more students, said the 
Graduate Student Assembly 
President Grant Bromhal, who 
is a fourth-year Civil and Envi
ronmental Engineering doc
toral student.
The relationship the recipi
ent has with Carnegie Mellon 
will be an important factor.
When looking at the nomi
nees, well try to make a judge
ment whether the candidate 
has the stature and relevance 
to the [Carnegie Mellon] com
munity that we are looking for, 
said Christiano. Once we have 
done that, we might seek to add 
information about the nomi
nees that will [aid us in our 
selection process].
Crime and Incident Report
SYRACUSE
STUDY ABROAD
Zimbabwe  England  Italy 
Hong Kong  Spain  France
 Wide-ranging courses
 Internships & service-learning
 Business programs in 3 countries
 Organized study-travel
 Grants, scholarships, loans
 Placement in foreign universities
Syracuse University 119 Euclid Avenue Syracuse, NY 13244 
800-235-3472 suabroad@syr.edu http://sunnveb.syr.edu/dipa
9/18MEDICAL,9:56pm - Two 
Campus Police officers on frater
nity patrol saw a person climb out 
of a second-floor fraternity house 
window. He leapt from the win
dow to a nearby tree but lost his 
grasp and plummeted 12 feet. The 
victim landing squarely on a brick 
wall. He began to climb off the 
wall, and the officers, who rushed 
to assist him, helped him sit down 
on the ground. One of the officers 
radioed for CMU EMS.
The victim was identified as a 
CMU student and a member of 
another fraternity. He was 
clearly intoxicated. He had a half
inch laceration over his left eye 
and several additional lacera
tions on his left arm and knee. A 
City Medic unit was called and 
responded in 20 minutes. The 
medics put the victim in a neck 
collar, placed him on a 
backboard, and transported him 
to University of Pittsburgh Medi
cal Center (UPMC).
The officers didnot want to trouble 
the victim with it at the time, 
but they did issue him an internal 
citation for disorderly conduct.
9/22 PANIC ALARM, 6:35 pm 
 A man wearing a Nine Inch 
Nails t-shirt entered the Entropy 
store in the University Center to 
purchase a pack of cigarettes. The 
clerk asked the man for identifi
cation that showed his age. When 
the man could not provide such 
identification, the clerk informed 
the man that he could not sell 
him the tobacco product. At this 
point, the man became enraged 
to the point that the clerk pressed 
the panic alarm under the 
counter. Two officers were dis
patched to Entropy.
The officers detained the actor, 
and he provided them with a birth 
certificate and a social security 
card as identification. He claimed 
to be a part-time CMU first-year 
student but said that he did not 
have his CMU ID on his person. A 
check of the C-Book, the Housing 
Roster, and User IDs turned up 
no names matching the actors.
The officers transported the 
actor to Cathedral Mansions, 
where he said he lived and where 
he said his CMU ID could be 
found. When they got to his room, 
however, he said that he still could
not find his ID. Through conver
sation with the actor, it became 
clear to the officers that the actor 
was ignorant of CMUs academic 
and student life. This lead them 
to believe that the actor was lying 
and, in fact, not a CMU student. 
They advised the actor that un
less he could find his CMU ID, he 
could not to return, to campus 
without risking arrest for defiant 
trespassing. The officers then 
took the actor to the police office 
for processing.
9/22 ASSAULT, 6:28 pm - A 
CMU student was standing at the 
bus stop in front of Morewood 
Gardens awaiting public trans
portation. He saw a man wearing 
a Nine Inch Nails t-shirt walking 
across Forbes Avenue and appar
ently heading straight for him. 
The actor made a movement as if 
he were going to strike the stu
dent, so the student grabbed the 
actors arms. No words were ex
changed between the two, and the 
student, thinking he had made a 
mistake, let go of the actors arms. 
At this point, the actor punched 
the student in the face. The stu
dent recalled that the actor 
smelled of alcohol and appeared 
drunk. The actor, after striking 
the victim, ran back across Forbes 
and entered Cyert Hall.
The victim went to the Campus 
Police office and informed them of 
what had occurred. Two officers 
checked Cyert Hall but could not 
find the actor. The officers called 
off the search of Cyert early in 
order to deal with the panic alarm 
that had been pushed at Entropy.
The victim remained in the po
lice office to give some more infor
mation to the officers. After some 
time there, the two officers re
turned to the police office with 
the offending individual from the 
Entropy incident in their custody. 
The victim was surprised to see 
that it was his assailant. The 
victim said he did not want to 
press charges, but only wanted 
his assailants name so that he 
could talk to'the actor about why 
he assaulted him.
9/24 PERCEIVED RACIAL 
SLURS, 11:47 am  A complain
ant called Campus Police and 
informed the dispatch officer that
a fraternity had painted racial 
slurs on the Fence. An officer 
responded to the Fence and spoke 
to a brother there. The brother 
explained that all questionable 
phrases on the Fence were in 
reference to particular pledges of 
theirs and were not meant to be 
offensive to the general public. 
Since the questionable phrases 
consisted of Latin Lover, Dirty 
Mexican, and Goldberg Sucks, 
the officer took no official action.
9/24 ASSAULT, 7:19 pm - A 
CMU Escort dispatcher wit
nessed a male tumbling down the 
steps and onto the Morewood 
Gardens lobby floor. She tele
phoned Campus Police. Also, the 
Morewood Gardens desk atten
dant called the police to report a 
fight. Four officers were dis
patched to the scene.
One of the officers recognized 
the victim as the actor from the 
Entropy and assault incidents that 
occurred two days earlier. The vic
tim said that he was walking up 
the Morewood Garden stairs when 
a male, whom he did not know, 
elbowed him, knocking him down 
the stairs. He said that his at
tacker left the building and headed 
towards Forbes Avenue. Two of
ficers left to conduct a search of 
the Forbes Avenue area. They 
could not find a male matching 
the description that the victim 
gave and called off the search to 
respond to another emergency call.
Meanwhile, one of the remain
ing officers interviewed the desk 
attendant to determine what he 
had seen. The DA said that he 
saw the victim and another male 
fighting as they exited the eleva
tor. The DA recognized the sec
ond male as a B-Tower resident, 
and he gave the officer the sup
posed assailants room number.
One officer watched the victim, 
and the other officer went to 
Morewood B-Tower to interview 
the assailant. The male was in 
his room, and the officer noticed 
that he had a small bruise on the 
left side of his face. The male said 
that he got out of the elevator on 
the bottom floor when the vic
tim, someone he had never seen, 
punched him in the left cheek. 
The male, and also the real vic
tim in this incident, said that he
VIATH ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING  MECHANICAL ENGINEERING* BUSINESS ANAL'
TAKE TECH NOLOG YTOJT HE
1 vajfevSUHILI imfBMft iirrffaiii Bn Mu a urn Pleas
When something is too extreme for words, it's to the Nth degree. And that's the 
level of technology you'll experience at Raytheon.
Raytheon has formed a new technological superpower-Raytheon Systems 
Company, composed of four major technological giants: Raytheon Electronic 
Systems, Raytheon E-Systems, Raytheon T1 Systems and Hughes Aircraft. 
The new Raytheon Systems Company is driving technology to the limit. And 
we're looking for engineers who want to push the envelope. Break new ground. 
Make their mark.
At Raytheon, you'll take technology-and your career-to the highest possible 
level. You'll take it to the Nth.
We have a lot to tell you about the new Raytheon Systems Company and the 
exciting opportunities we have available. Plan on visiting our booth at your 
college career fair. If you are unable to attend the fair then check out our website 
at www.rayjobs.com and please send your resume to: Raytheon Resume 
Processing Center, P.O. Box 660246, MS-201, Dallas, TX 75266.
used his martial arts training to 
throw the actor onto the floor 
twice. However, the actor contin
ued to come at him, and the fight
ing continued until the victim 
was able to throw the actor down 
the lobby stairs. The officer told 
the victim that the actor was not 
a CMU student and that he would 
have to press charges through 
the local magistrate.
With the knowledge of what re
ally had happened, the officer re
turned to the Morewood Gardens 
lobby where the victim-tumed-actor was still in the custody of the 
other officer. The officer reminded 
the actor of the warning that he 
had given him on Tuesday. The 
actor said he recalled the warning 
that he should not return to CMUs 
campus, and he finally admitted 
that he was not a CMU student 
and that he was just a guy who 
happened to live in Cathedral Man
sions. The officer issued the actor a 
Pennsylvania non-traffic citation 
for defiant trespass and warned 
him that any further returns to 
CMU property could result in his 
being physically arrested.
9/25 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 9:13 am  An officer had 
been assigned to a special detail 
for the Roberts Hall dedication. 
His duties included ensuring that 
reserved parking meters were kept 
open for attendees. Only two of 
the reserved spaces remained 
available when a CMU student 
pulled into one of them. The of
ficer told him that the spaces were 
reserved, to which the student 
replied that he would only need 
the space for five minutes. The 
officer said that he could not allow 
it, since, if an attendee came while 
the student was away from his 
car, there would be no place for 
the hypothetical attendee to park. 
The student insisted on parking 
there, but the officer again told 
him that he could not allow it.
The student finally submitted, 
but, before he drove away, he 
uttered an obscenity directed at 
the officer. The student parked 
near Phipps Conservatory and 
walked into Porter Hall.
The officer, another officer, and 
a traffic monitor waited outside 
Porter Hall for the students im
pending exit. After a few min
utes, the student left Porter, and 
the officers stopped him. He re
fused to show identification, but. 
he did verbally identify himself.. 
The officers ran the given name. 
through their database and found 
that he had a valid Pennsylvania 
drivers license. He was issued an 
internal citation for disorderly 
conduct because of the obscene 
remark uttered in a public place.
 Campus Chief of Police James LaPaglia reviews all reports prior to release.
 Only three people on The Tartan staff see the reports: the editor-in-chief, the news editor, and the staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of the complainants, victims, suspects, and fraternity names are omitted from the printed report. Ethnic descriptions and other personal details are given only in the context of complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RYAN D. SCHILLING
Now Go AwayU.I
SU')
M&lce. Q*Zy. 
QisJSte.
Fare* arc bawd on a RT purchas.Farea do not 
Include uxM.Fr arts ubject to chingc. 
Restrictions apply.Dont forgot to order your 
Eurailpass!
CouncilTravel
'IEE: Council on International Educational Exchange
118 Meyran Avenue 
Pittsburgh PA
33-1881
counciItra*
Internet: www.rayjobs.com  E-mail: resume@rayjobs.com
U.S. citizenship may be required. We are an equal opportunity employer.Raytheon

---------------------------------------------------

An open invitation for open minds.
What will be your statement?
To swing a hammer on top of the Berlin Wall 
and help entrepreneurs break through... 
to see a pony on a shirt and help it influence culture... 
to move a computer company from dorm room to boardroom. 
Make a mark with your mind.
MINDS. WIDE OPEN.
www.gs.com
Technology
Information
Session
6:00 - 8:30 pm 
Scaife Hall 
Room 422 
Casual Attire
Goldman Sachs, an equal opportunity employer, does not discriminate in employment on any basis that is prohibited by federal, state or local law.43107. Catnagl* Mellon 10/5 Ad

---------------------------------------------------

6The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 September 1998
^had^ide^m
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom ap&rtment suites include an equipped kitchen, fluffy 
linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMG/Pitt/Hospitals.DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(412) 441-4444
http://pittsburgh.net/ShadysideInn/
Not what you'd expect from an employer.
At Progressive^ \\v like lo think <>f ourselves ;is more th:m just :m insurance company. We are driven by an altitude anil philosophy that's unique and unexpected in the insurance industry-putting people ahead of procedures. That philosophy has inaile progressive one of the nation's largest auto insurance companies, writ ini' S i.(i billion in policies. We are currently recruiting for our Quest Program, internships anil co-ops.
Progressives Quest Program has been successfully developing technical professionals for more than IS years. Progressive provides you. as a new college graduale, with a I gaming-focused process to sharpen your technical skills while ai the same lime orienting you to programming in Progressive's mainframe and client server env ironments.
We have opportu in the following Quest Prognm
 COBOL
 C LANGUAGE
 CLIENT/SERVER OPERATIONS
 TELECOMMUNICATIONS
On October <. 1WX. \v will be on campus for an informal information session from iHipm-'Wlopm at Porter Hall in room A JO. Please come see us to hear about Progressive and the career opportunities available. Refreshments will be served. Open lo afl students.
We will also be conducting inte graduation may contact the car, s on .October . IWK. Students interested.in working for Progress enter office. Interviews will be conducted from l):li(iamc.ipm.
II unable lo stop by. please contact Melissa Winberry, IS College Relations ~L-eruiter, Box N72A, 6300 Wilson Mills Rd., Mayfield Village, OH 44143. Phone: 440-446-5409- Fax: 440-446-4855. Email: melissa_wiiiberry@progressive.com. . We are an Ki|ual Opportunity Hmployer. M/F/IW.
PROGRESS/I/E
Students flock toStudent Senate Minutes
UC for career fairs
JOBS, from page 1
and TOC, others were submitting 
their rsums on-line with 
JobDirect.Com. The companys 
large van parked outside the Uni
versity Center last Thursday and 
Friday had five workstations for 
students to enter their informa
tion. Scott Bowers of 
JobDirect.Com said that they had 
a pretty good student turnout. 
According to him, JobDirect.Com 
usually comes to schools at the 
same time as the job fairs.
Tire format of the fails did lead to 
large crowds andlonglines at times. 
This and the focus on upperclass
men at the expense of underclass
men upset some students.
The intentions are good, how
ever [the job fairs are] frenzied 
and you have to maneuver to get 
in line, said senior industrial
management major Alex 
Benetti. There are usually big 
lines at the larger companies 
while there were no students at 
others. Benetti also said that 
he saw most of the same com
panies as last year.
There should be a separate 
job fair catered towards under
classmen and students who 
want internships, said sopho
more computer science major 
Tim Alper.
Many companies who partici
pated in the BOC and TOC are 
now conducting formal inter
views for interested students. 
These two job fairs help stu
dents to find out moreabout 
companies and meet with po
tential employers. Most of the 
companies will be back in the 
spring to recruit for interns.
Meeting of September 23,1998
STUDENT
Lisette Mlller-DIxon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Students clamored for company information last Thursday at the BOC.
SENATE
Unofficial Minutes 
Meeting was called to order at 
7:10 pm. Roll was taken at 7:10 
pm.
Senators Present:
Anthe (CIT), Chang (MCS), 
Devine (HSS), Die (CFA), 
Ditterline (CIT), Gross (CIT), 
Guzy (HSS), Hardjanto (SCS), 
Hutsko (MCS), Joshi (MCS), 
Kalafchi (SIA), Mccartin (CIT), 
Merry (HSS), Monroe (CIT), 
Moskowitz (HSS), Ng (CIT), 
Phelps (SCS), Silverman 
(MCS), Stovall (MCS), Strauss 
(SCS), Tham (SIA), Wei (HSS), 
You (SIA)
Senators Absent: 
Chan-Mendez (SIA), Guerra 
(CIT), Jones (CFA), Koch (CIT), 
Meier (CIT), Tassone (SCS)
Ex-Officio Reports: 
Student Body President
(given by Sarah Gross): I met 
with Dean Murphy discussing 
about furnishing and decorat
ing the Morewood basement 
and other issues. Also, the 
Newsletter will be out in the 
next 10 days.
Student Body Treasurer
(Keith Rothschild): I am still look
ing for an assistant treasurer.
Special Businesses: 
Approval of Validated Peti
tions: Alex Markel, a sophomore 
ECE major, is accepted as an 
official Senator representing CIT.
Committee Reports: 
Academic Affairs (Amy Ng): 
The time and place of the AA com
mittee meeting is to be announced. 
We are updatingthe report from
last semester concerning the stu
dent online Web site.
Teaching assistant evaluation 
form is being processed.
We have been working on the Life Skill Workshop, a threeunit optional course. The pri
mary goals of this course are to 
help students develop and ar
ticulate a life vision, to provide 
students with the tools neces
sary to manage their extraordi
nary talents within the con
straints of time, and to develop 
their leadership.
Campus Affairs (Neil Guzy): 
The committee is focusing on the 
poster policy with five organiza
tions to work with. We are also 
working on the survey on the 
Morewood Basement project. In 
preparation for Homecoming, the 
committee is working to make 
sure that it will run smoothly. We 
are working together with Hous
ing focusing on dormitories.
Funding and Recognition
(Sern Tham): F&R will be pre
senting four special allocations.
Human Resources (Jamie 
Chang): The committee dis
cussed what kinds of items 
should be on the HR Web page. 
Charlie Anthe will be doing the 
initial work on this.
The committee approved the 
specifications for a new PC for 
the Senate office. The computer 
has been purchased and should 
arrive before mid-semester break. 
If you would like to see the speci
fications, talk to Robb Moskowitz.
The committee has agreed to 
dispose of the older Centris by 
first offering to sell or give it to a 
worthy organization. Should 
there be no interested organiza
tions, the computer would be sold 
on the open market to the high
est price. F&R will be handling 
the disposal.
Later in the meeting, we will be
voting on the election dates cho
sen by the committee. The com
mittee chose October 27, 28, and 29. The committee will likely be 
bringing up locations and times 
at the next Senate meeting.
The committee also discussed 
ways in which Senators can con
tact their constituents. Methods 
such as use of departmental and 
college electronic bulletin boards, 
and departmental dlists were 
mentioned. We encourage Sena
tors to explore these and other 
possible routes of communication 
with constituents, and share what 
they learn with the rest of their 
college delegation.
Direct any question concerning 
the HR Committee or its issues to 
me at: pet@andrew.cmu.edu , or 
call X2-2695
Public Relations (Joshua 
Merry): The committee meets ev
ery Monday at 9 pm in Skibo.
We are still working on the 
poster publication on campus. 
The committee is also updating 
the Senate flier to advertise the 
available positions in the Stu
dent Senate.
Chair (Drew Stovall): 
Keycards will be ready by the 
end of next week to access the 
copy room.
New Business from Commit
tee: Approval of Election Dates 
(October 27, 28, 29 (T, W, R)) 
accepted by voice vote.
F98-003Special Allocation to 
Friends of the Board
A special allocation of $300 to 
repay the organization for previ
ous special allocation of the same 
amount zeroed from their account 
at the end of last semester. Mo
tion approved by voice vote.
F98-004Special Allocation to 
SPIC-MACAY
A special allocation of $2960 to
refund SPIC-MACAY for funds 
that were inadvertently left in the 
account last year and subsequently 
zeroed. Approved by voice vote.
F98-005Special Allocation to 
Dancers Symposium
Dancers Symposium provides 
CMU students the opportunity 
to express their creativity through 
dance. A special allocation of 
$2050 for Dancers is recom
mended. Approved by voice vote.
F98-006Special Allocation to Thistle
A special allocation of $272.03 
for Thistle in order to purchase a 
new hard drive to replace an old 
one that has been having prob
lems since last year. It was ap
proved by voice vote.
New Business:
Singapore Students Associa
tion & ARCC (Awareness of Roots 
of Chinese Culture) request for a 
special allocation funding of $550 
for Mid-Autumn Festival. The 
Mid-Autumn Festival is a major 
festival for the Chinese that has 
deep cultural significance. Mo
tion was approved by hand vote.
Points of Discussion:
The Career Center is working 
with Jobtrak, a company based in 
California. They created a new 
Web page for submitting resumes, 
which requires students social 
security numbers. However, some 
senators have expressed their con
cerns with the confidentiality and 
security of the personal informa
tion given. Resolutions will be dis
cussed further through the Sen
ate meeting next week.
Meeting adjourned at 9 pm by 
voice vote.
Submitted by 
PAULA RUMLI 
Edited by 
NATHAN STEINWALD
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an error, please contact Editor-In-Chief Becky A. Cowser at tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
A SCIITE FOR LESS THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Corrections and Clarifications...
In the September 14 issue of The Tartan, the article Student Senate moves along despite 
vacancies had several inacuracies.
The article incorrectly stated that there were 42 senate positions. There are 38. Additionally, 
there were only four vacancies at the begining of the year though some seats were vacated before 
the first senate meeting.
The seat reserved for SIA students was incorrectly called the GSIA seat.
The Graduate Student Assembly was identified incorrectly as the Graduate Student Association.
Redefining The Industry

---------------------------------------------------

The only way to find out if you 
qualify for car insurance rates 
at savings up to 25% 
is to call InsureDirect now. 
Toll-Free 1-800-826-3300. ext. 37
Probably not. So why pay 
higher auto insurance rates 
just because you re a student? 
If youre a responsible driver, 
InsureDirect can help.
With InsureDirect 
you could save 
up to 25% or more.
InsureDirect is the better way to get 
your car insurance. We keep our 
rates low by insuring safer drivers - 
whether theyre students or not. And 
you deal directly with us - theres 
no middleman commission to pay.
Your rates could be 
even lower if you qualify 
for these discounts.
 College Graduate - A special 
discount saves 4 year college 
graduates money on premiums
 Good Student - Is your GPA 3.0 or 
better? If so, you could save more
 Safe Vehicle - Depending upon 
the model and year of your car, 
you could save more
 Find out about even more 
discounts when you request your 
free quote
Plus, InsureDirect 
gives you advantages 
other companies dont.
Your low rates are iocked-in' for 
a full 12 months
 100% first year replacement 
cost on new model year cars - 
no extra charge
 24 hour customer service and 
claims accessibility
InsureDirect
Save $50! - Request your free quote 
over the web at www.insuredirect.com
Underwriting Companies: Reliance Insurance Company. Reliance. Insurance company ot' Illinois. Reliance Direct Insuianco Cnmpnny. Reliance National Indemnity Company. Reliance National Insurance Company. Reliance Reinsurance Company. Reliance Surety Company, United Pacific Insurance Company.
InsurcDirect products, features and programs not available in 
all slates, and the availability of .discounts may vary by stale.Keycode: 8DEEAC
Twenty-Four CMU Grads Can't All Be Wrong
There just seems to be something that 
draws CMU grads to FactSet.
Maybe its the fact that the company is still small enough for 
an individual to make a difference.
Maybe it's because the company offers ample opportunity to 
develop your career.
Maybe it's because it's a fun place to work.
Whatever the reason, if you're motivated, creative, and in the 
market for a good company to work for, FactSet may be the 
place for you.
What does FactSet do?
FactSet is a leading provider of online financial, market, and 
economic information. Our software is used by more than 
10,000 investment professionals worldwide to research 
companies, industries, and economies.
The company is totally dedicated to service. We spend a lot of 
time working with the client to make sure the databases we 
create, the software we develop, the support we provide, even 
the manuals and help we write, are meeting or exceeding the 
clients' expectations.
What are we looking for?
FactSet recruits on campus for Software and Systems Engineers, 
Consultants, and Technical Communicators.
Software Engineering
At FactSet, Software Engineers design the databases and applications 
our clients use every day. They work closely with all areas of the 
company to ensure that FactSet's technology is highly responsive to 
the changing needs of the investment community.
We look for experience in one or more of the following: C/C++, GUI 
frameworks, data visualization, Perl/HTML, Microsoft Windows 
application development, algorithmic analysis and design, and 
statistical/quantitative analysis.
Consulting
Consultants are the essential link between the investment 
professional and FactSet's powerful software.
Consultants combine a thorough understanding of the FactSet system 
with a working knowledge of finance and technology to offer an 
unparalleled level of service.
We consider individuals with backgrounds in finance, accounting, MIS 
as well as the liberal arts and engineering. Personality counts for 
Consultants, so you also need to be comfortable working with people.
Meredith Knezek98
Paige Angstadt97
Roberto DeFeo97
Dave DeFonce97
Kan Devnani97
Eduardo Gonzalez97
Julia LaSalle97
Priyantha Perera97
Karl Feng96
Nancy Leary Rush96
Gavin Rush96
Molly Brennan Borger95
Mark Hale95
Demian Johnston95
Bob Kay'95
Carl Klemmer'95
Abby Schiff'95
Dan Weinstein'94
Jason Almeter'92
Mike Cham'92
Robert Groce'92
Sheila Farrelly'91
Barry Franklin'91
Terence Yarde'91
More Information?
FactSet is headquartered in Greenwich, Connecticut, and has 
offices in Manhattan, San Mateo, London, Tokyo, and 
Hong Kong.
Contact our recruiting coordinator at 203.863.1568 or visit us 
on the web at www.factset.com.
We'll be holding an information session October 14, in Porter 
Hall, Room A18B at 7pm. We'll be interviewing on campus 
October 15. See your placement office for details.
Technical Communication
Technical Communicators at FactSet strive to keep clients, prospects, 
and the general public informed about new products, enhancements, 
and corporate developments. For Technical Communicators at FactSet, 
this responsibility could potentially mean working on everything from 
brochures to product specs to press releases to user manuals to 
multimedia training to HTML based online help.
FactSet is currently looking for Technical Communicators who are: 
experienced and skilled authors and editors, organized and attentive 
to detail, highly motivated with excellent interpersonal skills, and 
interested in computers, technology, and finance.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie Mellon University28 September.1998
Business program 
needs identity
As CMUs high-profile Gradu
ate School of Industrial Adminis
tration (GSIA) turns 50, the school 
should take the opportunity to 
upgrade its commitment to un
dergraduates. GSIAs under
graduate arm  the Business Ad
ministration (BA) program  
lacks a concrete identity and has 
continually been denied the rec
ognition and resources that it 
sorely needs.
While other colleges within 
CMU focus on curriculum for un
dergraduates and graduates, 
GSIA is a graduate school first 
and foremost. The BA under
graduate program, referred to 
technically as SIA  the School of 
Industrial Administration  is 
considered to be only a part of 
GSIA. Therefore, the students in 
the program have access to only a 
small share of GSIAs ample re
sources. GSIA fills two entire 
buildings, yet undergrads have 
all of one hallway to themselves. 
This lack of a fixed space cuts 
down on cohesion among BA stu
dents. There is only one full-time 
academic advisor for all 550 un
dergraduates. Other faculty help 
with advising tasks, but those who 
hold advising responsibilities 
have many time commitments 
that make it difficult for students 
to receive adequate guidance.
Undergraduate BA majors also 
lack a departmental computer 
cluster for 24-hour use, while 
graduate students have modern 
computing facilities available 
around the clock. And while cur
rent BA freshmen, and those who 
will follow them, are strongly en
couraged to buy laptop comput
ers, GSIAs laptop docking stations are strictly for graduate use.
One reason why undergraduate 
needs are undervalued is the way 
GSIAreceives its funding. Gradu
ate students pay tuition directly 
to GSIA, while undergraduates 
pay tuition to CMU. The Univer
sity then returns some of this 
money to GSIA to pay for BA 
instruction. It is the equivalent of 
the University renting out space 
from GSIA for undergraduates 
who are interested in studying 
business. It is not exactly the way 
a top-ranking undergraduate pro
gram should operate, but because 
it is the way GSIA has always 
functioned, efforts to change it 
havent been seriously pursued.
The BA program would be much 
stronger if it received more facili
ties and increased recognition 
from its parent graduate depart
ment. GSIA should consider 
changing its funding scheme so 
that it does not distinguish be
tween .the uses of graduate and 
undergraduate money. At the very 
least, GSIA should consider de
voting the construction of a new 
top floor of Posner Hall solely to 
undergraduate studentresources.
GSIAs charter places con
straints on name changes, but the 
administration should look into 
the possibility of droppingGraduate from the schools name and 
adopting the name School of In
dustrial Administration for both 
of its departments. This step alone 
would show a significant reorien
tation towards undergraduates. 
Once the schools name becomes 
more inclusive, the administra
tion should lead an effort to over
haul the schools philosophy to
ward all-inclusive education.
This is Forum
Newspapers in general are rela
tively predictable  theres the 
news sections, the sports sections, 
and the comics, usually along with 
the living and entertainment sec
tions. Often there is very little 
opportunity to respond to what 
we see in print. At The Tartan, we 
find a lot of value in the exchange 
and in the frequent clash of ideas. 
The Forum pages are our way of 
fostering a free exchange ofideas, 
so we try to provide a spectrum of 
opinions to allow you, our read
ers, to be the judges.
To that end, youll find the fol
lowing types of pieces in Forum: 
Editorials always appear in the 
left-most columns of the first Fo
rum page. They are unsigned 
because they represent a consen
sus opinion of The Tartans edito
rial board.
While we believe our editorials 
offer sensible, accurate commen
tary, please feel free to disagree 
with us  we dont have a mo
nopoly on the truth. As a matter 
of fact, we would love to know 
what you think. An excellent 
means to do this is by writing a 
Letter to the Editor.
Letters to the Editor may be sub
mitted by anybody, although when 
space gets tight, we will favor let
ters from members of the Univer
sity community. As readers, you 
should realize that opinions rep
resented in a letter are those of the 
author and not of The Tartan. All 
letters are subject to editing for 
size and grammar (letters should
Jsmes Mojonnier/Tartan Art Editor
Letters to the Editor
Givngvy gouarviau 
erst rlvy ouuklu
Editor:
To refer to Kenneth 
Starr as an indepen
dent counsel is ab
surd. Kenneth Starr is 
an extreme right-wing 
Republican chosen for 
his position by an extreme right-wing 
judge after consultation with the extrem
ist senator Jesse Helms. While serving as 
independent counsel, Starr continued 
to receive large sums from the tobacco 
companies which were engaged in a dis
pute with the Clinton administration.
The goal of Kenneth Starr and his ReLetter to 
the Editor
publican colleagues is to divert attention 
from the important problems facing our 
nation. We face major environmental prob
lems, but the Republicans in Congress 
have tried to destroy all environmental 
protection while they are receiving large 
contributions from major polluters. Glo
bal warmingrepresents a long-term threat 
to mankind. A modest agreement to at
tack this problem was negotiated in Kyoto, 
but the Republicans refuse to carry it out 
because of the huge contributions they 
receive from the oil companies.
Millions of children still live in pov
erty with inadequate health care and 
inadequate schools. Yet the Republicans 
continue their efforts to cut all social 
welfare programs and at the same time 
lower capital gains taxes so as to benefit 
the richest Americans. After all, poor
children dont contribute to the Republicans, so why should they care whether 
these children live or die!
The Republicans are continuing their 
campaign against individual freedom, 
particularly freedom of choice and free
dom for minorities. At the same time 
they show their contempt for democracy 
by trying to prevent a fair census count 
so as to disenfranchise the poorest dis
tricts in our cities.
The Presidents sex life is nobodys 
business. There are very important is
sues facing our nation. And there are 
real, vicious criminals in Washington, 
and they are not in the White House.
Lincoln Wolfenstein 
University Professor 
Physics
Internet bill ignores child rights
not exceed 350 words). But we 
never edit a letter for content.
Of course, we reserve the right 
to reject letters that we feel are 
libelous, obscene, or incoherent. 
But well be glad to discuss any 
letter with the author and see if 
we can reach a compromise. How
ever, in order to have such a dis
cussion, we need to know who you 
are. We are willing to withhold 
the authors name from a Letter 
to the Editor, but our Editor-inChief does need to know who wrote 
it. Please dont send us anony
mous letters  it just frustrates 
us because we have no way to 
contact you, and it annoys you 
because your letter doesnt 
get published.
Persons Opinion is just that  
the opinion of randomly polled 
persons, usually students at 
CMU, on a different question or 
concern each week. The people in 
Persons Opinion have no affilia
tion with The Tartan, and their 
opinions are in no way related to 
The Tartan.
Columns are opinion pieces pre
sented by members of the CMU 
community. We are looking to di
versify the Forum section and en
courage students, faculty and staff 
to write a column on something 
which interests them. Opinions in 
these columns are those of the 
columnist and not of The Tartan.
Again, feel free to disagree with 
them. Getting feedback lets us 
know that you are reading and 
thinking about The Tartan.
y:s
Yishan Wong
In the last week, the Child 
Online Protection Act com
pleted its first stages of legis
lative fabrication. This bill is 
little different from the Communications Decency Act 
(CDA) repealed last year, 
which sought to protect mi
nors from indecent infor
mation on the Internet. The 
main difference is that this 
new bill would substitute the 
word harmful for inde
cent. Indeed, the resem
blance between the two acts 
is so striking that many are 
calling the new bill CDA II. 
After last years passage of 
the CDA, an uproar raised by 
civil rights activists and numerous Web denizens brought 
the bill before the Supreme 
Court. With the advent of CDA 
II, civil libertarians now once 
again have cause to cry foul. 
Indeed, the preliminary 
stages look like score one for 
the paternalistic government 
and conservative forces. Or 
maybe its just a farce.
When the original CDA was 
overturned by the Supreme 
Court, President Clinton said, 
If we are to make the Internet 
a powerful resource for learn
ing, we must give parents and 
teachers the tools they need 
to make the Internet safe for 
children. Polls show that re
gardless of their stance on fed
eral regulation of Internet 
material, most people felt that 
parents should be given the 
primary right and responsi
bility to protect their children 
from inappropriate material.
Where is the right of par
ents to determine what their 
children see and hear? Is the 
distinction between adults 
and children one of master 
and slave? The decisions re
garding the CDA and CDA II 
were hardly put to the people 
the bills would concern most 
 the children. The national
Mohd Zekri Ismail/Tartan Art Staff 
debate is taking place only 
between adults who wanted 
to eliminate the material 
so that children could not ac
cess it, and adults who saw 
the bill as threatening the 
right of adults to access mate
rial to which they had a 
legal right. Nowhere was 
Please see CENSORSHIP, page 9
Performance boosters set bad example
Editors Notebook
by Lorelei Laird
Ive never been much of a sports per
son. Thus, when Mark McGwire began 
his race with Sammy Sosa 
to set the record for most 
single-season home runs 
in the history of baseball,
I didnt share the excite
ment of fans arond the 
nation. However, one as
pect of the Cardinal first 
basemans odyssey did in
terest me  his contro
versial use of androstene^^^^ 
dione, a nutritional 
supplement outlawed by every major 
sport but baseball, and of creatine, a 
legal but unregulated nutritional supple
ment, to help boost his performance. 
The supplements very public use by a 
well-known sports figure sends a dan
gerous message to athletes and fans 
alike  its okay to mess with your body 
chemistry for the sake of the game.
Androstenedione is a direct hormonal 
precursor to testosterone; that is, the 
body makes testosterone out of andros
tenedione. That means that if you me
tabolize it correctly, you can get a heck of 
a lot of testosterone from androstenedi
one dietary supplements. Testosterone 
is valued by athletes for its ability to 
build muscles and endurance. However,
Just as no one should have to 
starve himself or herself to be worthy 
of attention, no one should have to 
tweak his or her bodys chemistry in 
order to be a fit competitor. 
and accelerates the growth of any pros
tate tumors. And this is assuming that 
the androstenedione is not processed 
into estrogen rather than testosterone, 
which would create an entirely different 
set of problems for a male athlete  
development of female secondary sex 
characteristics, for starters.
Creatine has a similar story  its a 
compound made by the body to help 
power the muscles. Though its natu
rally found in meat, athletes supple__________ ment their diets with overthe-counter doses of cre
atine to battle fatigue and 
boost endurance. How
ever, as with testosterone, 
putting too much extra 
creatine in your system 
can cause the body to stop 
making it, which eventu
ally causes a buildup of 
. i creatinine, a toxic by-prod
uct, in the liver. Then you 
get pimples, diarrhea, and, eventually, 
liver and kidney damage. Meanwhile,
its side effects can be devastating, rang
ing from acne to heart and liver failure.
Even more charmingly, adding lots of you have become addicted to the creattestosterone to your body often causes it ine supplements, rendering you unable 
to stop producing the hormone natuto stop this process of poisoning, 
rally, which makes the testicles shrink Please see CREATINE, page 9

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 September 19989
Recent missile strikes leave trail of questions
Nick Fox-Gieg
I saw it on a bike rack as I was walking 
down Melwood Avenue  a small white 
sticker with neat black lettering. Send 
Monica to Afghanistan and Sudan as a 
piece offering! it commanded. Something 
about it bugged me, so I stopped to take a 
good look. Wasnt peace spelled wrong? 
After a moment, I realized that wasnt the 
most confusing thing about it. How can 
you send Monica to two places at once? Oh 
 in pieces, get it?
Any protest message that takes a full 
five minutes to unpack is in danger of 
losing its audience. Its just too compli
cated. Think of how simple it would be for 
a sticker-maker during the Bush admin
istration, addressing an equally indecent 
liaison and an equally well-timed display 
of pyrotechnics. Send North to Iraq! Its 
direct, its unequivocal, and it uses less 
than half as many words.
Unfortunately, a month after it occurred, 
the August 20 missile attack on Monicas 
twin vacation destinations sits in a queasy 
gray area that cant easily fit into a catchy 
slogan. Whether you think the Gulf War 
was a blow struck for democracy or a 
massive PR campaign for our post-ColdWar military, you probably know exactly 
who we were fighting, and you know the 
official reasons why. While the threat rep
resented by Saddam Hussein was uncon
scionably exaggerated, he was a real dicta
tor with a real army, and we could see the 
proof right there on TV if our faith in the 
cause happened to flag.
By contrast, even the most skeptical ar
ticles Ive read on the missile attack have to
begin by blindly _____________________
assuming that 
they had some 
justifiable basis.
So little informa
tion has been 
given us that, if 
we choose to 
throw out the 
governments 
threadbare explanation, we
have almost no evidence with which to 
piece together a critical viewpoint. What do 
we know? There were two targets, 2,500 
miles apart, and the more thats revealed 
about the situation, the less there is to tie 
them together. No media blitz for this Storm. 
Can anyone name the rulers of the two 
countries, much less match a face to the 
name? A month after the act, difficult ques
tions have been raised, and the official 
answers grow less and less satisfying. Was
A month after the missile 
strikes, difficult questions 
have been raised, and the 
official answers grow less 
and less satisfying.
the Afghan target a real terrorist base? Or 
was it a regular army training camp? Was 
the alleged Sudanese chemical weapons 
factory only a pharmaceutical plant? Were 
the chemical by-products that our intelli
gence agents cited as proof of evil-doing 
actually traces of an innocuous antiseptic?
According to Amnesty International, 
Afghanistans extraordinarily unpleas
ant theocratic government, which goes
_____________________ by the sinister
name of the 
Taliban, is one 
of the worlds 
top humanrights violators. 
Its habit of ar
bitrarily im
prisoning and 
executing foreigners has now 
brought it to the 
brink of war with neighboring Iran, after 
it extended the practice to a group of 
ambassadors from that country. We have 
no diplomatic relations with Afghani
stan whatsoever.
Sudan, on the other hand, has made 
diplomatic overtures towards us, and, long 
before the attacks, it repeatedly offered to 
allow us unconditional access to its chemi
cal facilities as a gesture of good faith. 
Those offers were rejected. The British
engineers who built the demolished plant 
recently went on the record as saying that 
the design was fundamentally inadequate 
for weapons manufacture. Is it possible 
that a different approach was called for 
in each situation? From all available evi
dence, it wouldve at least been appropri
ate to open preliminary negotiations 
with Sudan before firing straight into a 
civilian district.
In the absence of clearly-drawn connec
tions between the two sites, were forced to 
blindly accept that the link is terrorism. 
This is why two targets work better than 
one: In analyzing the situation, were 
tempted to look for an element common to 
both. Were dealing with two separate news 
stories crammed into one. The headlines 
screamed that Our Target Was Terror  
note the singular  and who are we to say 
any differently? Whether or not the at
tacks were necessary under the circum
stances is really beside the point. Our 
government isnt even giving us the infor
mation we need to make an informed deci
sion about the situation, much less print 
clever stickers on the subject.
Nick Fox-Gieg is a senior art major. I looked it up: President Omar Hassan al-Bashir is in charge of Sudan, and Mullah Mohammed Omar rules Afghanistan. Piece out.
Use of supplements sends 
dangerous message to fans
CREATINE, from page 8
Creatine and androstenedione 
are only two of the athletic supple
ments of questionable safeness 
that are on the market, and they 
are far from the worst. All of 
these drugs are designed to boost 
levels of certain chemi
cals in your system. As 
any biology student 
knows, the human body 
is designed to stay in a 
strict balance, and when 
it is thrown out of that 
balance; it gets sick. Pro
longed use of drugs like 
these throws your body 
way off balance, and as 
the symptoms listed 
above show, the results 
arent pretty. Eventu
ally, they could cost you 
not only your career, but 
your life.
Not that the results 
are always so obvious.
More and more, espe
cially due to the heav
ily publicized use of 
these substances by pro
fessionals, theres a per
ception that up-andcoming athletes have 
to use drugs in order 
to compete.
At worst, this percep
tion could create an en
tire generation of plas
tic athletes, competing 
less and less with their 
skill alone and quitting 
their sports earlier due 
to bizarre complications 
from their natural dietary 
supplements. It isnt much dif
ferent from the situation of the 
thousands of young girls who 
are hospitalized each year for
eating disorders  an unrealis
tic, artificial standard set by so
ciety drives people to unhealthy 
or even fatal actions in order to 
measure up. Just as no one 
should have to starve himself or 
herself to be worthy of attention,
GRAP6
in a season in the history of base
ball is going to be a role model. If 
he is also a user of a body-alter
ing chemical, he sends a clear 
message to admirers and wouldbe imitators that these drugs help 
make winners.
Young athletes will 
imitate him, and poten
tial side effects for them 
can be much more devas
tating  permanently 
stunted growth and 
the halting of sexual 
development, for ex
ample, along with some 
previously mentioned 
symptoms. If he in
deed sets the world 
record for home runs, 
McGwire has a responsi
bility to set a much 
healthier example for his 
young fans.
Though its hyped by 
drug companies as a safe 
steroid, androstenedi
one is neither a steroid 
nor safe. Nor is creatine 
at all risk-free. Athletes, 
as people who expect 
high performance from 
their bodies, should care 
what they put into them, 
and McGwires defiant 
admission that he uses 
those drugs tells me that 
he doesnt. No game, 
however famous it 
might make you, is worth 
your health.
Cory Shopper/Tartan Art Staff
no one should have to tweak his 
or her bodys chemistry in order 
to be a fit competitor.
Then there are the fans. The 
man who hits the most home runs
Lorelei Laird is a tall,broad-shouldered, meat-eating, weight-lifting native of the decaying industrial town of Bellwood, Pennsylvania (population 2000).
Adulthood does not 
equal right to judge
CENSORSHIP, from page 8
there concern about the 
right of children to access 
this material.
Put it to the children: Re
quire Web sites to clearly mark 
their sites according to a rating 
system, and let minors who visit 
understand the scale and de
cide for themselves whether or 
not they want to see the mate
rial. Young children usually 
have their own aversion to sex, 
and will turn away from it. Mi
nors who decide that they want 
to access the material need an
swer to no one  they make 
a conscious decision to the best 
of their knowledge as does 
any adult.
One might argue that chil
dren have inadequate informa
tion or might suffer from im
maturity and thus insuffi
ciently prudent judgment: Well, 
the majority of the adult popu
lation suffers from insuffi
ciently prudent judgment. 
There is no certification of adult 
status beyond a mere passing 
of years. Adult status guaran
tees no minimum of education, 
intelligence, or sensible deci
sion-making, and yet it confers 
upon the person numerous re
sponsibilities and rights, all of 
which can be abused through 
sheer stupidity.
If we subscribe to the elitist 
attitude that people who are 
older possess better judgment 
and are therefore fit to rule 
over the lives of younger people, 
then we might as well subscribe 
to the attitude that those who 
are better educated or score 
higher on standardized tests
are more intelligent and there
fore fit to dictate the lives 
of others.
The belief that parents some
how know what is better for 
their children when they them
selves frequently cannot make 
prudent decisions due to igno
rance or plain stupidity is sim
ply childish. Adults might not 
be able to decide on how their 
money should be collectively 
spent on public highway 
systems, scientific research, or 
health care, and yet argue that 
such decisions should not. 
be left to so-called experts. 
Parents who feel that they 
should and can shield their 
children from bad influences 
are indulging their egos and 
engaging in dangerously con
trolling behavior.
Children do not need to be 
protected from indecent ma
terial any more than adults do. 
It has no adverse effects on 
children that it does not have 
on adults, so there is no distinc
tion to be drawn. If we believe 
that responsible adults have 
the right to see and hear what 
they want, and that, because 
of their human nature, they 
have the necessary mental fac
ulties to handle such informa
tion, we must extend this view 
to any sentient being who 
can make a conscious decision. 
To believe otherwise is to deny 
the minds of minors, who 
are human beings in their 
own right.
Yishan Wong is a sophomore computer science major who enjoys eating chicken.
A PERSONS
OPINION
The TOC and BOC came 
and went, nice squishy toys 
were acquired by all, and 
students began worrying 
about life after graduation. 
With all this ambition flying 
around, the time is ripe 
to ask: Whai is your dream job?
Compiled by 
Bhumika Muchhala & Emily Zipfel
Tunisha Wideman 
ECE
Sophomore
I want to own my own com
pany, with a partner, in 
software engineering.
Tyler Gregg 
Computer Science 
Senior
Money for nothing.To be the first woman presiDirecting movies. 
dent.
Kristen Gilmore 
H&SS undeclared 
First-year student
sillily z-ipici/ I anon juiiiui oicin
Danny Guzman 
Art
Sophomore
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Slnco 1906
Editor-in-chief.... Becky A. Cowser
Managing Editor...........Ena Khan
Business Manager... Norman Mok
Acting News Editor..NathanSteinwald
Forum Editor........Rebecca Fribush
Sports Editor.......................Brian Smith
Features Editor...............Kevin Babbitt
Diversions Editor.................Anne Ray
Calendar Editor.......Kevin AuYoung
Dossier Design Editor.................Matt
Tragesser
Dossier Literary Editor.......Marshall
Warfield
Art Editor..................James Mojonnier
Photo Editor...............Anthony Chao
Production Manager..William Holtz -
Advertising Manager..........Kevin Fine 1
Webmaster...................Charles Ballowe
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules 
Copy Manager..Helena Mcgahagan J 
Asst. News Editor.. Ryan Schilling 1
Asst. Forum Editor...............Lorelei Laird -
Asst.Features Editor Gregory Nofi
Asst. Dossier Design Editor.......LeeAnne Stossell 
Asst. Dossier Design Editor....Jane i 
Liddle
Asst. Production Manager....Derek 
Greentree
Darkroom Mgr..............................Lisette
Miller-Dixon . 
Personnel Manager.. Seth Mandel ,
Contributing Editors 
Mark Adato, Ellen Beldner, Jennifer 
Garcia de Osuna, Stephen Hsu, 
Tracy Odell, Amit Sheth
Staffwriters Abhay Agrawal, Dash Boyer-Olsen, 
Michelle Chao, Justin Cina, Dave Elman, Nick Fox-Gieg, Andrew 
Francis, Emily Landes, David Liber, Trevor Meyerowitz, Maureen McGranaghan, Bhumika Muchhala, Susan Murray, Jaya Saxena, Reena Singhal, Jennifer Terry, Rich Torio, Yishan Wong
Art
Nell Babra, Matthew Blum, Joe 
Hocking, Chris Rugen, Cortland 
Shopper, Zekrl Ismail
ComicsJoe Hocking, Chris Rugen, Christian Schwartz, Elizabeth Spiridakis
Photo :Stacey Tetziaff, Michelle Ungerer .
Darkroom Cassandra Knight, Susan Leu, William Long, Jeany Oh, David 
Oleszklewicz, Diana Rutherford, Amy Solana, Erica Yamada
Production yJennie Keith, Andrea Okerholm, Diana Rutherford, Rlmas Svarcas
CopyStacey Becker, Christopher Dornfeld, David Elman, Claire Jaciregui, Larissa Kaslan, Matthew McHenry, Jonathon Pearce, Jennifer Terry
Business Michael Y. Kan, Toshi Takano
Junior Staff 
Jimmy Clutter, Heather Dietrich, Ben  
Farapour, Sriram Gollapalli, Ish . Harshawat, Rosie Jones, Katie J Kowall, Darby Lumber, Aseem 
Maheshwan, Katie Martinez, Melissa McMahon, Koichiro Nakatsu, Trishna Palodia, Jonathan Pearce, ; Pauwla Rumli, Lisa Rump, Betsy Scott, Rich Torlo, Anna Wei, Christina Wong
The Tartan is the student 
newspaper of Carnegie Mellon 
University. It is a weekly newspaper 
published by students during the 
fall and spring semesters, at no 
cost to members of the University 
community. It is printed by Western 
Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available forthe 
semester or academic year. The 1 editorials appearing at the 
beginning of the opinion section * 
afe the official opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the 
 opinions of individual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to - 
reject or condense any column or 
political cartoon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of authors 
who are usually, but not 
necessarily, members of the 
University community. Abetter 4 intended for publication muSt be - 
signed and include the writer's 
address and phone number for 
verification. Names may be  
withheld upon request. The Tartan 
requests that letters be no longer ^ 
than 350 words. The Tartan , 
reserves the right to condense or 
rejectanyletter.Copyright1998 - by The Tartan. The Tartan chons' , 
board reservesthe righttowithhold * 
from publication any copy itdeems 
unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314 
Phone: 412/268-2111. Mailing 
address: The Tartan/Box 17/ - 
Carnegie Mellon University/ 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your 
Activities Fee. All rights 
reserved. Library of 
Congress ISSN#:0890- MtWJ - 
3107. The Tartan is a 
memberoftheAssociated 
Press.

---------------------------------------------------

3*1^'
Sunnyledge
HOTEL  TEA ROOM
*Forbes magazine loved us... 
So will your guests 
Luxury corporate accommodations from $129
Lunch * Dinner * Private Events 
Prepared by executive chef, Kevin Watson 
formerly with the Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island
SHADYSIDE
Daily Martini Happy Hour, 5:00 - 7:00p. m.
twWid e-r awngw-c o us-Isc
(412) 683-5014
*July 22, 1998 issue of Forbes Magazine
WELCOME PAK!
Kinko's would like to help start your semester off right.
We're offering great saving on black & white copies - just 4<t each.
And Freshmen, visit your local Kinko's and pick up your FREE Freshmen Welcome Pak. 
While you're there, check out all of Kinko's great products and services.
kinko's
Freshmen: Bring this coupon 
anil your Freshmen I.D. card 
to Kinko's and receive a FREE 
Welcome Pak while supplies last
Includes: Kinko's CopyCard - with 25 free self-serve copies* Kinko's Coupon Booklet
Kinko's Correction Fluid  Highlighter & Pen  Post-It' Notes
PITTSBURGH
3710 Forbes  687-2752
kinko's
EXP 9/30/98
4c BLACK & WHITE COPIES
Receive 8% x 11" bUck and white copies on 20lb white bond for Juit At each. Offer is limited to one coupon per customer. Coupon must be presented at time of the purchase and is not valid with other offers or discount programs. Offer valid at time of purchase and may not be discounted or credited towards past or future purchases. Valid at Kinko's listed locations only. Coupon void where prohibited by law. No cash value.
PITTSBURGH
3710 Forbes  687-2752
kinko's
AAC345
Meet some Tartan Folks:
atures Editor, Kevin Babbitt, (a.k.a. Kev Dog) 
ooking for writers who enjoy hunting down 
cky folks on campus
News Editor, Nate Stienwald, (a.k.a.The Lyrical Gangster) 
wants you to tell him what is going down in the area and
how it effects students
Sports Editor, Brian Smith, 
likes sports. He likes watching sports. He likes photograph
ing sports. He likes writing sports. He likes editing sports. 
However he does not like watching, photographing, writing 
and editing the whole sports section every week. Despite 
his lack of staff, Brian still believes there are other CMU 
students who like sports. He begs you to prove him right.
Diversions Editor, Anne Ray, (a.k.a. A-Ray) 
knows about all the cool happenings in Pittsburgh and 
how to get in for free. Shell consider sharing this 
information with you if you agree to lay down some 
prose about what you see when you get in.
Forum Editor, ReflPSPfTiDush , 
looks like shes ready to rip someones head offrbGtlts not going to 
happen, because shes a bit on the small side, shed probably have to jump 
up to rip off most heads. Rebeccas physical size definitely doesnt show in 
her section, where the fighting is mental. She welcomes you to come write
for Forum and kick some mental butt.
Ruction Manager, Will Holtz, (a.k.a. Produce Boy, et al.) 
with putting all the ads and photos in the paper, 
which means he gets to make amusing recruitment ads like 
le. He wishes all his work was this much fun. Will 
fellow Photoshop junkies to teach him some new 
so he can make even more amusing ads.
e-mail smandel+@andrew.cmu.edu to join The Tartan
MOST STORES OPEN 24 HOURS, 7 DAYS A WEEK
iDltM tt-to't. IxIl nr,Hi ittffvri. ofc'i irri 7V rv icyoflSq at rrghlrri tndtniita d tirta'i Inc. tit mtd by ptrearn. Cts'i rr-.-m ram ptmiuan lion Bw copynjM tcllw in or Id ttprodx <cp,nttrt jrk
Do you write fiction?
Would you like to be published? 
Could you use $100?
Undergraduate College 
Fiction Contest
Prize:
Winner receives $100, and the winning entry will be pub
lished in the Fall edition of the Three Rivers Review. 
Guidelines:
 Deadline is October 26, 1998.
 Contest is open to all undergraduates in the Pittsburgh 
area.
 Manuscript must be no more than 15 pages, double 
spaced. Cover sheet must include name, address, tele
phone number and e-mail address.
 No revisions will be accepted.
 Maximum of two submissions per student.
 Winner will be selected by December 18.
Entries:
Drop off entries in the Fine Arts Room of the University of 
Pittsburgh Book Center, 4000 Fifth Avenue, by 4:00 p.m. 
on October 26, 1998.
Co-sponsor ed by the Uni versify Honor s College and the 
University ofPittsb urgh Book Center

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 September 1998Hometown fan critiques Steelers offense
The Steelers Corner
by Rich Torio
It was difficult to defend the Pittsburgh 
Steelers after their humbling 21-0 loss 
last week in Miami. In addition to being 
the number of points scored by the Steelers 
offense, zero is also the number of points 
that I could come up with to defend it.
The offense, which has been mediocre 
at best all season and was abysmal against 
Miami, is the central concern of every 
Steelers fan, including me. Many fans 
are questioning the competence of Ray 
Sherman, the new offensive coordinator 
coaching Kordell and company. Many 
blame Sherman for not Riding the Bus, 
and many wonder why Sherman will not 
wind up the wheels of the quarterback 
formerly known as Slash.
Steelers tight-end Mark 
Bruener and KDKA TVs 
sports anchor Bob Pompeani 
share in the concern for the 
offense. In my recent inter
views with the two, Bruener 
defended his coach, Sherman 
and redirected the ultimate re
sponsibility onto himself and 
the other offensive players.
However, Bruener and 
Pompeani did give me valu
able nuggets of optimism.
The coaches can call the 
plays, but the players have to 
go out there and act upon those 
plays, said Bruener. It re
ally doesnt matter what goes 
on in the skybox, or what goes 
on on the sidelines; were out 
there. There are only 11 men out there 
playing, and we need to go out there and 
do our job.
Pompeani stood by Sherman as well, 
attributing the atrocious offense to an 
understandable lack of the all-important 
intangible  team chemistry. It takes 
time. I think there is a chemistry that 
needs to be found. And they will find it, 
and it will start this week, said Pompeani.
Matt Blum/Tartan Art Staff
Pompeani remembers the similar pre
dicament the Steelers offense was in 
eight years ago. I liken this back to 1990 
when Joe Walton... came in [as offensive 
coordinator], said Pompeani. [The 
Steelers] had a hard time comprehend
ing his offense... and they didnt score an 
offensive touchdown in the first four 
weeks. They were being booed off the 
field. Yet, they hung in there. [Quarter
back] Bubby Brister felt com
fortable after halfway through 
the season, and it was one of 
the best years of his career. 
Can you imagine an offense 
more offensive than this years? 
If Brister could turn it around, 
Kordell can too. Stewart may 
not be Brett Farve, but he is no 
Bubby Brister. Things will 
come together. It just takes 
time and chemistry on the 
Steelers part and patience on 
the fans part.Post-game Prognostications: (0-0) so far this season 
In my inaugural prediction, I 
think the Steelers are going to 
get back on the Bus and get 
back on track against the unde
feated Seahawk squad. For the record, this is not fixed. I made my pick prior to the 
game. By the way (just in case I lose), I must 
now make it abundantly clear that I am 
currently undefeated! Yes, this is the first 
week, but I dont know if Ill ever be able to 
say that again. Without further ado, the 
Post-game Prognostications are:
My pick: 17-14, Steelers squeak by in a 
gear-grinding ground game.
Soccer squad defeats Seton Hall
SOCCER, from page 12
manage their two goals on lucky bounces in front 
of the CMU net.
The first goal of the game came off a Washington 
comer kick in the 21st minute. The ball bounced 
wildly past several clearance attempts by the CMU 
defense, finally coming to rest at the foot of a 
Washington forward who chipped it in for the early 
lead. Though they controlled most of the action 
from then on, Washington was unable to score 
again until mid-way through the second half. A 
long ball across the box took an odd bounce over 
Smiths head and was headed in by a Washington 
forward just past the valiant defensive effort of 
senior back Kelsi Montgomery.
CMUs second-half pressure resulted in many 
quasi-chances, but the team was unable to solve 
Washingtons defense, generating only poor-quality outside shots. The final score versus Washing
ton was 2-0.
Wednesdays game against Seton Hall College 
saw a complete role reversal for CMU as they 
combined a crisp passing attack with a physical 
defense to generate numerous scoring opportuni
ties. The Tartans held a 3-0 edge in corner kicks 
and an 11-2 lead in shots, but the ball just couldnt 
seem to find the back of the net until junior back 
Jocelyn Pollack poked in a cross with just over two 
minutes left to play. The Tartans missed chances 
included two first-half free kicks that sailed just 
over the crossbar as well as several other plays 
where one-too-many passes resulted in momen
tum-killing turnovers.
The Tartans appeared to get ahead with just 
under 10 minutes left when a mad scramble in
front of the Seton Hall net ended with a goal, but 
the goal was disallowed when Gaul was called for 
goalie interference. It was a fair call, but it was 
actually good for us because it made us pick it up, 
said freshman forward Marcy Cook.
The team attitude following the game reflected 
disappointment over all the missed chances more 
than excitement over a victory. The players also 
didnt feel that they had been trying to prove 
anything following Sundays loss. It was good to 
come out and get a win, but there was nothing 
disappointing about Sunday, Cook said about the 
September 21 game. The games moved the Tar
tans record to 5-3 for the season.
Dave Eyvazzadeh/Tartan Junior Staff 
Senior Kelsi Montgomery trips up an attacker.
Football prepares for UAA games
FOOTBALL, from page 12
The team faces Dickinson Col
lege this weekend before meeting 
three UAA opponents in a row. 
With this schedule ahead, the team 
prepares for perhaps the most im
portant part of the season.
Dickinson is a very good, wellcoached team, said Lackner. If 
we dont improve on all aspects of 
our game, we may run into trouble 
down the road.
The next Tartan home game is 
against the University of Chi
cago homecoming weekend, Oc
tober 17.
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Junior Mike Campie gained 116 yards versus Alfred last Saturday.
Meet 'a S G rad u ate
Informational Seminar: October 8,1998 
6:30 pm, Porter Hall A18A 
Refreshments will be served 
Interviews: October 9, 1998
 Electrical Engineering
 Phgsics
 Computer Science
 Mathematics
maybe you have the power to succeed at:
Put some power behind your ideas. At MIT Lincoln Laboratory, your research and ideas will be transferred directly into the development of leading edge, realworld applications, including air defense, space surveillance, communications and air traffic control systems.
If you're looking for a way to power up your career, please forward a cover letter and scannable resume to: 
resume@ll.mlt.edu (ASCII Text File);Fax: (781) 981-2011; or mail to: Human Resources, MIT Lincoln Laboratory, CN98,244 Wood Street,Lexington, MA 02420-9108.
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/F/D/V US Citizenship is required.
LINCOLN LABORATORY
Sports shorts .
Team falls in 
UAA matches
At the Case Western Invi
tational, September 19-20, 
the CMU womens volleyball 
team experienced mixed 
results versus Case West
ern University (CWRU), 
Hiram University, and 
Kalamazoo College.
In the game against Case 
Western, CMU lost their first 
game 8-15, but pulled 
through the next three to win 
the match. When the team 
faced off versus Hiram Uni
versity, CMU won three 
straight matches to take 
home the win.
Kalamazoo proved the big
gest challenge to CMU. The 
Tartans started out with a 
close 15-12 win, but ended up 
losing the next three. In the 
end, CMU lost to Kalamazoo, 
but were able to leave the in
vitational with two wins.
These wins were uplifting 
compared to the nine losses 
the women endured last Fri
day on the first day of the 
UAA Round Robin at Wash
ington University of St. Louis.
Washington and Emory 
swept the team. Their sole 
win for the .day came in a 
rematch from last week
against CWRU. This time, 
however, the Tartans could 
not pull it out and lost 3-1.
The team competed 
against Brandeis Univerity, 
New York University, and 
Chicagolast Saturday. How
ever, stats for these games 
were not available.
Tennis pair 
wins tourney
In the Rolex ITA North
east Region Womens 
Singles Championship this 
past weekend, CMU senior 
Keri Mills advanced to the 
semifinals. She lost that 
match, however to Mills lost 
in the singles match to Grove 
Citys Alyssa Bradford with 
scores of 6-7 in the first 
match, and 6-4 in the sec
ond and third matches.
The Carnegie Mellon teams 
experienced greater succces 
in doubles action. Mills and 
sophomore Elisabeth Brown 
played unseeded Stacey Eyth 
and Barb Horning of St. 
Lawrence University. The 
Tartans blanked St. Lawrence 
6-0, 6-0, taking their second 
consecutive regional champi
onship. The win qualifies the 
duo for the national Rolex 
Tournament in Memphis.
classified
Enarvtkrvyu
September 28, 1998
Administration
IM Director: Mike Mastroianni X8-2214; 
Asst. IM Director: Mike Grzywinski 
X8-2214; IM Secretary: Amy Kiryk 
xS-2053; IM President: Jeff Poore 
X2-3913; Womens President: Andrea 
Nellis X2-2611 
Important Dates
Tues. Sept. 29  IM Board Meeting, 
Gym Conference Room 
Thur. Oct. 1  IM Cross Country Meet 
4:30 pm Schenley Park, Flagstaff Hiil 
Thurs. Oct. 1  Racquetball, Soccer, 6 
Person Volleyball, and Foosball rosters 
due in the IM Office by 4:30 pm 
Sun. Oct. 4  IM Golf Tournament 
Schenley Park
Sun. Oct. 4 IM Bowling begins at PAA 
Tues. Oct. 13  Soccer Rules meeting 
in the Small Gym at Skibo Gymnasium. . 
Time of the meeting 4:30 pm. All 
teams must have a representative. 
Sports in Season
Touch Football  Games are under 
way on the Stadium and IM fields on 
Monday through Thursday evenings 
and Sunday afternoons. Please stay off 
the fields during varsity sport practices. 
Playoffs will begin next Sun. or Mon. 
Co-Rec Volleyball  Playoffs begin 
tonight with the championship matches 
on Thursday.
Tennis  Matches are being played 
Monday through Thursday evenings at 
the Tennis Courts. Please report scores 
to the IM Office. In case of rain outs, 
please notify the IM Office. Stay off the 
court until 6:30 pm or until varsity 
tennis practice is finished. Also, only 
approved court shoes are to be worn. 
Water Polo  Water Polo schedules 
are out. Play started last week in the 
UC Pool. Games will be played on 
Monday and Wednesday evenings at 9 
and 10 pm.
Chess  Schedules are out. Please 
play all games as scheduled and report 
scores to the IM Office.
Sports Upcoming
Cross Country  The 1998 IM Cross 
Country Meet will be held on Thurs.Oct. 
1 at 4:30 pm. The race will start on 
Flagstaff Hill near Porter Hall. Individu
als or teams of 4 may participate.
GolfThe 1998 IM Golf Tournament 
will be held on Sunday Oct. 4th at 
Schenley Park Golf Course. Tee off any . 
time between 7 am and 4 pm. The 
cost is $10 per person and $6 for 
club rentals. Individuals and teams of 
4 are urged to take part in this event. 
Turn all score cards in to IM Office no 
later than noon Wed. Oct. 7.
Bowling  Matches will begin Sunday 
at the PAA lanes. All captains must 
have returned the confirmation letter to 
be placed on the schedule.
Volleyball  Games will begin on 
Monday Oct. 5 in the UC gym. Sched
ules will be available late Friday 
afternoon.
The Intramural AP Coaches Poll
Majors
1. BETA Black and Gold
2. Delt Scrubs
3. SAE Misshappen
4. SAE Tight Ends
5. Hit Squad
6. PiKAA
Make Easy Money! Go On Spring 
Break For Free! USA Spring Break 
offers Cancn, Bahamas, Jamaica, and 
Florida packages and is currently 
accepting applications for campus sales 
representatives. Call 1-800- SPRING 
BREAK
Absolute Spring Break. 2 Free Trips on 
15 sales or Earn $$$$. **Lowest 
Prices** Free Meals, Parties & Drinks. 
1800-426-7710. 
www. sunsplashtous. com
Signature Solutions, Inc. Invites you 
to join our enthusiastic team of 
windows software developers.
MSVC++, Visual Basic, COM, DCOM, 
and Active X. Let us impress you with 
some of the most interesting projects in 
Pittsburgh and an equally impressive 
compensation package. Resumes to, 
Fax: (724)744-0808, i-net: 
landijo@sigsol.com, Snail: Leverington 
Office Complex, Suite 4004, 3520 
Route 1 30, Irwin, PA 15642
Spring Break 99! Cancn * Nassau * 
Jamaica * Mazatlan * Acapulco * 
Bahamas Cruise * Florida * South 
Padre. Travel Free and make lots of 
Cash! Top reps are offered full-time 
staff jobs. Lowest price Guaranteed, call 
now for details! www.classtravel.com 
(800)838-6411
Program Associate - P/T to staff the 
Jewish Over 21 Group 0021G), 
Pittsburgh's official program for Jewish 
adults, ages 21 to 29. We are looking for 
a graduate student or community 
individual who can help us provide social, 
cultural, and religious alternatives for 
Pittsburgh's young Jewish adults. Please 
call Dan at the Hillel Jewish University 
Center, 621-8875.
Paper writing / Research assistant 
available for those writing papers, 
articles, manuscripts. Available for 
proofreading, formatting, technical 
requirements, E.S.L, organization, 
research assistance, rush jobs. Oncampus. Professionals: $12.00/hr. 
Tutoring students: $7.50/hr or $4.00/ 
page. Marie@363-6622/
MarieS 00@hotmail. com
S'1'
Flowers for romance, platonic and more. 
Make someone smile. ALEX'S FLOWERS. 
687-4128/687-ALEX. Delivery. 
www. a lex flowers, com
Plant Sale. Alex's Flowers. Corner 
N.Craig and Bayard. 687-4128, 687- 
ALEX
North Oakland Melwood. 1 and 2 
bedroom can be furnished. Balcony, 
security, A/C, parking. 500-600+ elec. 
519-8475
Low Student and Faculty fares to 
International Destinations. Good 
Domestic fares, AYH and Eurail Passes. 
9-5- M-F. 4609 Winthrop Street, Off 
South Craig. Forum Travel 681-4099
Classified Rates
1-20 words............$10.00/wk
21-50 words............$12.00/wk
51 -100 words.........$15.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 17 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date
On-campus departments and 
organizations may pay by journal 
transfer
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS
Volume 93, Issue 5The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania28 September 1998
Women runners winTartans lose to UAA leader
By NATHAN STEINWALDTartan Acting News Editor
On Sunday, September 20, the 
mens soccer te'am ran into trouble 
at Gesling Stadium when they 
played highly-ranked WashingWe knew we were going to 
score and we did, but giving up 
goals to a team like that is in
excusable and represents the 
same mental mistakes we made 
in the [Washington] game, 
said Kartzman.
uave cyvazzaaen/ i anan junior aian 
Senior forward Harry Ulrich streaked down the field last Saturday.
ton University of St. Louis. The 
team rebounded Tuesday to 
bounce Waynesburg College and 
St. Vincent college in convincing 
fashion, but the Washington loss 
hurts because it was a conference 
game, and one that the team feels 
could have been avoided.
The final score of the game was 
3-2 in Washingtons favor. Se
nior co-captain Harry Ulrich and 
junior Johnny Petrillo scored for 
the Tartans in the loss.
The goals were really soft, 
said coach Nick Gaudioso. We 
just made a mistake that we never 
made before here. You learn from 
your mistakes, and it wont hap
pen again.
The game was CMUs second 
UAA game of the season. Games 
between other teams have indi
cated that there is growing par
ity in the league as traditionally 
weak teams have been doing well 
against perennial powers.
The conference has been so 
tough its hard to judge how good 
teams will be relative to each 
other, said junior Ben Kartzman. 
The only guarantee is that every 
game will be a battle.
Last Tuesday, the team re
turned to action against 
Waynesburg. CMUs offense ig
nited during the game to pro
duce a 9-2 win, but the 
Waynesburg Yellowjackets made 
the game interesting with their 
persuasive speaking manner 
with the referee.
The Yellowjackets became up
set as they began to fall further 
and further behind in the second 
half and began directing their 
hostility towards the referee. Yel
low cards piled up so quickly for 
the Yellowjackets that it seemed 
they were attracted to the color of 
their namesake. However, it was 
not long before red cards were 
being issued to Waynesburg.
I think we just put them away 
and they got mad and started 
talking to the referee, said jun
ior Brad Malin. He just wasnt 
going to take it... and the rest of 
their team just didnt get it.
When the game ended, 
Waynesburg had been issued 
three red cards for dissent.
Last Saturday, the Tartans took 
their show on the road and played 
St. Vincent College. The team 
played well again and won a deci
sive 4-0 shutout.
Ulrich scored a hat trick, and 
junior Doug Jones scored the 
fourth goal in the Tartan win.
The last two games gave the 
team a valuable opportunity to 
test their bench and rest start
ing players. Ulrichs emergence 
as the teams main scoring 
threat in the last game was also 
important. The next game, 
against Grove City, will help 
serve as preparation for this 
weekend when the Tartans play 
New York University and 
Emory, two UAA opponents, two 
days apart.
The game against Grove City 
is going to be big, said Gaudioso. 
So hopefully we can use it as a 
spring board into the weekend 
when we have two big games.
Sports this week
HOME GAMES IN CAPS
Football
Oct. 3, Dickinson College
Womens Soccer
Oct. 2, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY, 5:30 pm 
Oct. 4, EMORY UNIVERSITY, 11 am
Men's Soccer
Sept. 29, Grove City College 
Oct. 2, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY, 8 pm 
Oct. 4, EMORY UNIVERSITY, 1:30 pm
Cross Country
Oct. 3, GROVE CITY COLLEGE, 10/10:45 am
Volleyball
Oct. 3, HILBERT, LAROCHE, BETHANY, THIEL, MARIETTA
Mens Tennis
Oct. 2-4, Rolex Tournament @ Swathmore College
Womens Tennis
Sept. 30, MERCYHURST COLLEGE, 3 pm
at Dickinson College
By ELLEN BELDNERTartan Contributing Editor
The Carnegie Mellon womens cross 
country team raced into first place 
last weekend at Dickinson College, 
capturing a win over 24 other teams. 
The mens team finished seventh out 
of 31 teams.
Runners slogged through a hilly course 
in humid weather, the men completing 
an 8-kilometer race and the women 
running a 5-kilometer course. Strong 
runs by senior women Margaret Pow
ers* who placed fourth out of 273 run
ners, and Maureen McGranaghan, who 
placed seventh, helped catapault the 
women to first place, while the men 
were helped out by a strong run from 
senior Josh Donner, who finished 16th 
out of 330 runners.
This meet was a very good experi
ence for us, said womens coach Dario 
Donatelli. Because Dickinson is the 
site of nationals this year, a lot of good 
teams showed up. The tough competi
tion and large field really made this a 
good preparation for nationals. Some 
of our younger runners got a chance to 
run in a big meet and get to know the 
course. For our veterans, it was a 
chance to size up the competition. This 
was definitely the best competition 
well see till nationals in November.
Powers finished with a time of 
19:06.8, and McGranaghan cinched 
her seventh place finish with a time 
of 19:14.2. The top six Tartan women 
finishers were only separated by 51
seconds, with junior Andrea Byrnes 
26th place overall finish clocking in 
at 19:57.6.
I had a really good race, said 
Byrnes. At most races I wouldnt be 
thrilled finishing sixth on the team, 
but I was only 50 seconds behind our 
leader [Margaret Powers]. That 
small of a gap is phenomenal. We 
worked together, and I think it re
ally paid off.
Donner led the mens squad, grab
bing his 16th place spot at 26:43.4. He 
was followed by junior Kenn Oldham, 
finishing in 31st place at 27:07.9, and 
senior Kristo Kriechbaum whose 
27:13.6 finish put him in 39th place.
This was not our best performance, 
but we did well against the competi
tion, said mens coach Gary Meckely. 
Some of our guys were a little flat, 
but this is a team full of veterans who 
know how to pull together a good race 
under those circumstances. It is obvi
ous to certain team members that 
they could have done better. Still, we 
showed that we are a team to be 
reckoned with.
It felt good to beat some respected 
teams like Brandeis and Keene State, 
said Kriechbaum. We have some work 
to do, but I really think well surprise 
some teams at the end of the season. 
The teams return home this week
end for their second meet of the sea
son at Schenley Park. They will look 
to defend their decades-long winning 
streak on the famed course against 
Grove City College.
By MATT BRUNTartan Junior Staffwriter
The pair of womens soccer games last 
week appeared to be straight out of the 
Twilight Zone as the team battled to an 
encouraging loss and a disappointing 
win. On Sunday, September 21, the team 
was all smiles despite a 2-0 loss, per
haps because their opponent was Wash
ington University, a perennial UAA pow
erhouse currently ranked third in the 
nation in Division III. On Wednesday, 
though, moods were much more low key 
as the team just eked out a victory over 
a weak Seton Hall team.
How does a team prepare for a pow
erful opponent like Washington? For 
the Tartans, the idea of just giving 
their all was the key. We knew going 
in that we wanted to step up and play 
a physical game and win the mental 
battles, like running down loose balls 
and winning challenges, said head 
coach Heather Kendra.
Of course, a major part of preparing is 
being confident that you can compete. 
Im not sure the girls had the confi
dence that they could play with a team of 
this caliber, Kendra said. This was evi
dent throughout the first half as the 
Tartans made many mental errors and 
appeared timid at times, mistakes that 
Kendra attributed to nerves. We were 
definitely nervous, she said. But then, 
it usually takes a few minutes to get 
your feet under you in any game.
The early mistakes allowed Washing
ton to set the pace for the game and 
control the action for most of the first 
half. By controlling the ball much more 
effectively than CMU, Washington was 
able to create many early scoring chances. 
In the 13th minute, Washington had a
Dave Eyvazzadeh/Tartan Junior Staff 
Freshman Gwyneth Gaul headed the ball past Washington defenders last Saturday.
well-placed header blocked by senior full
back Tracy Burton following a comer 
kick. Five minutes later, another comer 
kick resulted in a shot that sailed just 
over the crossbar after senior goalkeeper 
Lindsay Smith mishandled the ball.
The Tartans, meanwhile, struggled 
to find their rhythm, failing to register 
a shot until freshman halfback Gwyneth 
Gaul put a free kick well wide and high 
with seven and a half minutes left in 
the half.
said, You should realize that you can 
play with this team, but after 45 min
utes of running with them, they already 
believed it for themselves, she said.
Playing with renewed intensity, the 
Tartans stuck with Washington for the 
rest of the game, clearly impressing 
Kendra. We did well. If we had had a 
couple of bad bounces go our way, we 
could have won, she said.
Bad bounces were the order of the day 
as both teams misjudged or just plain
Going into the second half, the Tar. missed countless balls that went catans trailed by only one goal and came 
out much more focused, creating many 
more chances of their own. Commenting 
on the teams second half intensity, 
Kendra praised the girls more than her 
motivational efforts. Basically, I just
reening in every possible direction 
across the Gesling Stadium turf. De
spite holding a decided advantage in 
shots (16-5), comer kicks (7-2), and 
possession time, Washington could only 
Please see SOCCER, Page 11
CMU football team knocks off 
Alfred for third straight victory
Mens soccer improves record
By BRIAN SMITHTartan Sports Editor
Proving once and for all that 
their opening week loss to 
Denison University was a fluke, 
the Carnegie Mellon football team 
won its third straight game of the 
season last weekend. The Tar
tans defeated Alfred University 
 on the road last Saturday 29-15.
Our kids played really hard, 
said head coach Rich Lackner. The 
intensity level was high. It was 
great to see a lot of enthusiasm.
The Tartans had one of their 
best performances of the season
first quarter, the Tartans got the 
ball on the Alfred 44-yard line 
and marched down the field. Jun
ior quarterback Russ Clay capped 
off the Tartans drive with an 8- 
yard scramble into the end zone. 
Senior kicker Matt Jarock added 
the extra point.
The 7-point lead was short
lived, however. Alfred countered 
a minute later with a touchdown 
of their own and after CMU 
blocked the extra point attempt, 
the margin narrowed to 7-6.
This was the closest the score 
would be for the rest of the game. 
The second quarter saw CMU
on getting every aspect of this 
game to where it has to be. 
The Tartans stuck to the run
ning game toward the end of 
the quarter, and Monsilovich 
scored his second touchdown of 
the game before Alfred coun
tered with a touchdown with no 
time remaining in the half. The 
score after 30 minutes was 21- 
13 in favor of CMU.
The story of the second half 
was Tartan defense. Carnegie 
Mellon completely shut down 
the Alfred offense, sacking 
quarterback Todd Zandrowicz 
seven times for a loss of 71 
yards. On top of 
this, CMU lim
ited the running 
game to 57 yards, 
totaling a net loss 
for the Alfred 
ground game for 
the day.
Alfred had
In the September 19 home opener, sophomore Mike Strohl cut In on the defense.
offensively as the rushing game 
dominated Alfreds defense. 
We were able to control the line 
of scrimmage most of the day, 
said Lackner.
The numbers speak for them
selves. Every CMU offensive 
point scored on the day was on a 
rush. Two Tartan runners, jun
iors Mike Monsilovich and Mike 
Campie, combined for 324 rush
ing yards. Monsilovich scored 
twice with 9- and 3-yard runs 
while Campie found the end zone 
once on a 1-yard run.
Early on, the game looked as if 
it would be a defensive struggle. 
However, with 8:03 left in the
dominate offensively, running 
whenever and wherever they 
pleased. With 10:53 left, 
Monsilovich scored his first 
touchdown of the day, making 
the score 14-6.
After shutting down, the Alfred 
offense again, Carnegie Mellon 
took possession and moved the 
ball into field goal range. How
ever, Jarock missed the 37-yard 
attempt and Alfred took over.
The failed attempt highlighted 
one of the teams greatest prob
lems this season  special teams. 
Weve had a really inconsistent 
kicking game all year, said 
Lackner. We really have to work
more success 
with the pass, 
perhaps out of ne
cessity due to the 
the non-existent 
running game. 
Zand-rowicz at
tempted a stag
gering 45 passes, 
totaling 265 
yards and two 
touchdowns. The 
Tartan second
ary was anything 
but weak, how
ever, as they were 
able to manage 
three intercep
tions on the day.
CMU only managed to score 
once in the second half. This 
came with 4:23 left in the 
game as Campie ran in from a 
yard out, ending any hopes of 
an Alfred comeback. The 
Campie score ended up being 
the final points in the game 
and after a two point conver
sion and an earlier Alfred 
safty, CMU came away with 
29-15 win.
At times we played really 
well, said a cautious Lackner. 
We still have a lot to improve 
on though.
Please see FOOTBALL, Page 11

---------------------------------------------------

Eli Hill
F
Volume 93, Issue 5The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania28 September 1998
WtfDRS
Societies offer way to network after college
By KATIE MARTINEZTartan Junior Staffwriter
Honor societies at the college level 
have long existed in American society to 
recognize and promote scholarship, but 
just how far will membership get you 
outside of the college microcosm? At a 
time during the school year when many 
students are thinking about full-time or 
summer positions and turning in their 
resumes at the Business Opportunities 
Conference (BOC) and Technical 
Opportunities Conference (TOC), this 
question becomes much more relevant.
In general, employers seemed to recog
nize the enhanced credibility that comes 
with membership in an honor society 
but did not consider such a membership 
to be an essential part of a students 
portfolio. However, honor society mem
bers have found that there are benefits 
to membership that arent directly relat
ed to the job search.
If a person is a member of an honor 
society, it shows that they have achieved 
and are being recognized for excellence 
and are active towards whats good for 
the future, said Russell D. Chandler of 
Source Services, a consulting firm which 
setn representatives to the BOC in an 
effort to recruit students.
[Being a member] has given me the 
opportunity to find out what people are 
doing, said Mark Mentzer, a 1973 CMU 
alumnus, professor of design, and cur
rent president of the CMU chapter of 
Phi Kappa Phi. You feel connected to 
the larger academic community beyond 
the school.
Unlike some of the other honor soci
eties on campus, Phi 
Kappa Phi consists of 
members from all acade
mic disciplines at CMU.
Department heads nomi
nate potential society 
members based on both 
their QPAs and their 
other academic and lead
ership qualities.
[Phi Kappa Phi] 
serves to champion 
scholarship and excellence 
and establish connections 
between people who share a love 
of learning, said Mentzer.
The prestige of being in an honor 
society cannot be debated, but its 
usefulness to students seeking 
a job is not as clear. Having 
an honor society membership 
on a resume makes the person 
stand out a little bit more, 
said Julie Hall, a representa
tive from Source Services.
Its an indicator that youre 
capable of doing good work, 
said Kathleen Minadeo 
Johnson, associate provost for 
academic projects and secre
tary of the CMU chapter of Phi 
Kappa Phi.
But when one really gets 
down to it, having such a 
qualification on a resume isnt 
a large determining factor of 
whether or not an applicant will 
get the job.
I definitely think its a positive 
credential, but by itself, its not the 
one thing Im going to look for on 
a resume, said Robert DeAngelis, a rep
resentative from First Union National 
Bank, which was also at the BOC.
"If the person is not a member it isn't 
a disadvantage, but if someone is, 
it's a bonus point on a rsum."
Dan Crabill 
Source Services
It cannot be debated that honor society 
memberships contribute positively to a 
resume, but the lack of such a credential 
tends not to hurt an applicant.
If the person is not a member it isnt a 
disadvantage, but if someone is, its a 
bonus point on a resume, said Dan 
Crabill of Source Services.
In some cases the academic scholarship 
level which is correlated with an honor 
society membership isnt given very 
much consideration at all.
Some people dont do so well in school, 
but if you put them in the right work 
environment, they can really flourish, 
said Tim McKee, a representative from 
Geo data Solutions.
Even if being in an honor society isnt a 
large determining factor in getting a job, 
it has other benefits that extend into the 
business world. Through being a member 
of an honor society, one is able to connect 
with a variety of people and create net
works extending to the national level.
You make connections with people 
here and at different institutions across 
the U.S., said Mentzer. Members 
become enriched by knowing and talking 
and sharing here and elsewhere.
Once an honor society member gets a 
job in a desired area, just how much will 
Please see BENEFITS, page L3
examining the purpose of 
honor societies at CMU
Students debate role 
of groups on campus
By SETH MANDELTartan Personnel Manager
With over 100 student organizations on 
campus, there seems to be an activity for 
everything. Some do service and some do 
socializing. And then there are honor 
societies, which claim they do a little of 
each. There is some disagreement, how
ever, about the specific roles of these 
organizations and the actual motivation 
of the students for joining them.
"You feel connected to the larger acad
emic community beyond the school."
Mark Mentzer, president 
CMU chapter of Phi Kappa Phi
"Last year, [the NSCS] inducted over 100 
students, and not even all of the students 
showed up for the induction ceremony."
Kevin O'Brien, vice president 
for community service, NSCS
According to Matthew Chamberlain, a 
junior mechanical engineering major and 
secretary of the National Society for 
Collegiate Scholars (NSCS), the NSCSs 
main goal for the upcoming year is to 
perform service, on a regular basis. 
Chamberlain, who has previously served 
as the organizations first president, 
explained that since 
the NSCS is only 
about a year-and-ahalf old, they are still 
trying to establish 
themselves and to 
determine what role
the organization will play on campus. 
Although they focus on service, 
Chamberlain admits that only two pro
jects were performed last year  Habitat 
for Humanity and the assembling of col
oring books for Childrens Hospital.
Weve been growing. Last year was a 
learning experience for a lot of us, said 
Kevin OBrien, a junior civil and envi
ronmental engineering major and vice 
president for community service for 
NSCS. OBrien adds that this year the 
organization hopes to do 
more service, including 
large monthly projects, 
small projects that can be 
done at their meetings,, 
and college planning 
workshops for students at 
local high schools.
Not all honor societies con
sider community service to 
be their top priority, how
ever. Becky Wehrer, a 
senior materials science 
and engineering major and corresponding 
secretary of the engineering honor society 
Tau Beta Pi, said, We try to offer things 
that we feel are directly related to engi
neering. We could do projects such as 
Habitat For Humanity, but there are 
other organizations that can do that 
much better than we could.
"Having an honor society at a school 
like this is redundant because we're 
an academically achieving place."
Donald Sullivan 
first-year math major
According to Jason McDowall, a mas
ters student in electrical and computer 
engineering and current president of 
Tau Beta Pi, one activity that is 
planned for this year is a student 
panel for undeclared first-years in 
CIT. McDowall explains that this 
forum would provide an opportunity 
for first-years to obtain valuable 
information from their upper-class 
colleagues that may help them 
select a major.
While membership in honor 
societies is relatively high, 
the level of active participa
tion in these groups is not, 
according to OBrien. Last year, 
[the NSCS] inducted over 100 
students, and not even all of 
the students showed up for the 
induction ceremony, he said. 
Chamberlain added that the orga
nizations general meetings usually 
consist of about 12-20 people, out 
of the 250 members that have 
been inducted into the society 
since its inception in the spring of 
1997. He points out that while some mem
bers have graduated and some have left 
CMU, most of the members have simply 
Please see SOCIETIES, page L3James Mojonnler/Tartan Art Co-Editor
I

---------------------------------------------------

College Briefs
COLLEGE OF FINE ARTS
This Friday through Sunday, the 
School of Music is presenting its 
fall opera productions in the 
Alumni Concert Hall located in 
CFA. These performances will be 
directed by Gregory Lehane and 
conducted, by Robert Page.Dido & Aeneas with The Medium 
will be held on Friday and Sunday 
at 8:00 pm and 7:30 pm respective
ly. On Saturday, The Impresario 
with Dido & Aeneas will be pre
sented at 8 pm.
Ticket for these productions are 
$12. Reservations can be made at 
268-2383.
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
Department of Mechanical 
Engineering professor Cristina 
Amon has been appointed as the 
new associate director of the 
Institute for Complex Engineering 
Systems. She will be responsible for 
creating a new interdisciplinary 
initiative in thermal management 
for portables and high power-density electronics.
Amon replaces Daniel Siewiorek, 
who has moved on to become co
director of the Human Computer 
Interaction Institute.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
This Wednesday, at 1:30 pm 
in GSIA 261, there will be 
an accounting seminar called 
Transfer Pricing Based on Actual 
Cost. Savita Sahay, from the City 
University of New York, will be 
explaining a simple transfer pric
ing policy that is based on actual 
production cost.
Copies of this paper will be avail
able in GSIA 316.
HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCES
On Friday, there will be an 
applied microeconomic and econo
metric seminar entitled Sex, Kids, 
and Commitment to the Workplace: 
Employers, Employees, and the 
Mommy Track. It will be given by 
Anne Preston, an economics profes
sor from the State University of 
New York at Stony Brook.
The presentation, which takes 
place this Friday at noon in 
Hamburg Hall 2503, will examine 
the differences between the work
ing patterns of men and women 
before and after they have children.
MELLON COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
This Tuesday, the Center for 
Nonlinear Analysis seminar series 
continues with a lecture entitled 
Optimization Applied to the 
Simulation of a Micromagnetics 
Problem of Current Interest to the 
Recording Industry.
The speaker at this event, which 
occurs at 1:30 pm in the Physical 
Plant Building Room 300, is 
Department of Mathematical 
Sciences professor Tony Kearsley.
SCHOOL OF COMPUTER SCIENCE
This Wednesday, there will be an 
HCI Seminar given by Albert 
Corbett, a research scientist in the 
HCI Institute and co-director of 
the Pittsburgh Advanced Cognitive 
Tutor Center. The topic for the 
seminar is Cognitive Tutor 
Technology: Results-Based Design 
Changing Educational Practice. 
Corbett will discuss how cognitive 
computer tutors can be reliably 
developed to yield substantial 
learning gains relative to conven
tional classroom practice.
The presentation will take place 
in Wean Hall 5409 at 3:30 pm.
L2 The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 September 1998
Bagpiperbrings Highland spirit to CM
By KEVIN BABBITTTartan Features Editor
As far as he knows, Christian Kriegeskotte is the worlds only bagpipe major. After college, he plans to become a conductor, but while hes here, the firstyear student looks forward to the opportunity to work with the world-renowned bagpipers on faculty and an exchange program with the Royal Academy of Music in the United Kingdom. The Tartan recently had the chance to speak with Kriegeskotte about bagpipes, his experiences playing them, and their characteristic music.
The Tartan: When did you 
first decide you wanted to 
major in bagpipes?Christian Kriegeskotte: 
Sometime last year. I had 
heard about CMU a lot earlier, 
and it was where I wanted to 
go, because I knew I wanted to 
be a music major either way. 
As far as the major in bagpipes
 why not? Im still a perfor
mance major; if I were playing 
the cello, I would be in the 
same classes, only with a dif
ferent instrument. The advan
tage at CMU is that the bag
pipe instructors here are 
among the best in the world. 
Everyone in bagpiping knows 
who Allasdair Gillies and 
James McIntosh are, so it was 
exciting finding out they were 
here. The plan is for me to 
become a serious competitor in 
the bagpipe competition world.TT: What about your interest 
in bagpipes in general?
CK: Around the fourth grade, 
I discovered that my best 
friends dad played the pipes. I 
thought it was the coolest 
thing in the whole world, and 
being a young, impressionable 
elementary-school student, I 
wanted to do it too. Like most 
elementary-school students, I 
forgot about it soon after.
But I had still been interest
ed since then subconsciously. 
Once I saw an ad for a French 
horn contest featuring a num
ber of ethnic instruments. My 
friend was in the competition, 
so I went. It turns out he was 
playing the bagpipes.
When I saw him, I thought, 
Wow, I had forgotten how cool 
it was! So I started taking 
lessons and joined the local 
band. I marched with them for 
two years before coming to 
CMU. Im also of Scottish her
itage, so that contributed to it 
as well.TT: What is a bagpipe com
petition like?CK: They have competitions 
at whats called the Scottish 
Games or the Highlander 
Games. There are different lev
els; as a soloist, level 4 is the 
easiest, and then there are lev
els 3, 2, 1, and open.
There are different styles of 
music that you play. A typical 
competition consists of three 
tunes: a march, a strathespey, 
and a reel. These three styles 
contrast in timing and tempo. 
When playing a march, you 
also have to mark time, or 
march up and down in a line. 
The strathespey has a differ
ent type of rhythm, generally 
quicker than the march, and it
also has whats called a tacem 
movement. A reel is also differ
ent rhythmically, much faster, 
like a jig. Its dancing music.
Theres another form, the 
piobaireachd (pronounced 
pee-broch), which is the clas
sical music of the bagpipes. In 
this style, the note values have 
no bearing on the rhythm, so 
its not something you can 
sight-read. Its a very ancient 
music, all open to interpreta
tion and very different from 
the typical parade music. 
When you play this for the 
judge, you cant mark time, so 
you just sort of wander in a cir
cle as you play without mark
ing time. Its extremely compli
cated and harder to learn as 
opposed to the other styles, 
known as light music.
The band also competes as a 
whole. Typically, the band will 
stand in a circle and play a 
medley. The medley has to 
have tempo changes and con
tain several styles of music 
without a break. At CMU, the 
band is grade 4  band music 
starts at grade 5  and it has 
taken first at all the Games.TT: What about the instru
ment itself? How does it work?CK: Its a reed instrument. 
Theres a bag, which you 
inflate by breathing into it. 
The idea is to keep a steady 
pressure moving through the 
bag: you inflate it, then while 
you breathe in, you squeeze 
the bag. The principle is that 
you can keep a note going 
indefinitely. I could keep a note 
going for hours if I wanted to.
There are four pipes that 
make music: three drones 
Gimme the ball...Seminar brews ideas 
for Java applications
By GREGORY NOFITartan Assistant Features Editor
When people consider the special 
days in September, Labor Day and 
even Grandparents Day come to mind. 
To about 150 CMU students, however, 
last Saturday marked Java Day 1998.
Bud Tribble pointed out possible future 
directions for applications of Java.
Sun Microsystems, creators of Java, 
and the School of Computer Science 
(SCS) presented the latest applications 
and trends of the Java programming 
language to the CMU community. This 
is the second Java Day at CMU. The 
first one was held two years ago, but 
the topics have changed completely for 
this year.
Two years ago, we were just intro
ducing Java for the first time to the 
people, said Howard Wactlar, vice 
provost for Research Computing. Now, 
Java is more established, and were 
introducing derivatives which are 
Java-like advances of Java technology.
The relationship between CMU and 
Java goes beyond Java Day. The roots 
of this programming language can be 
traced back to CMU.
One of the originators of Java, 
James Gosling, was a graduate student
in SCS and received his PhD from 
[CMU], said Wactlar. In addition, one * 
of the definers of the Java program\ 
ming language, Guy Steele, was aJ 
member of the faculty of SCS.
The large popularity of the Java programming language is mostly due to its 
compatibility across different hard
ware types, a feature which makes the 
language very powerful. It tries to ful
fill the ideal of software that can run on 
many different kinds of computers, 
consumer gadgets, and other devices.  
[As a programmer,] you want to 
maximize the amount of people who 
can use your software. With Java, any 
computer user can run your software 
whether youre a Macintosh user, a-" 
Windows user, or a Unix user, said-;2 
Hollis Blanchard, a sophomore comput
er science major.
One event on the Java Day agenda 
was entitled, Java Technology in the  
21st Century. The presenter was Dr. 
Bud Tribble, vice president of archi
tecture and technology for Sun 
Microsystems. While his presentation 
previewed the upcoming applications * 
of Java, few of them concerned per
sonal computers. Tribble recited a lot 
of statistics showing how the increas
ing growth of the Internet is similar to 
the growth of telephones and television. He believes that the future ' 
growth of the Internet will depend 
largely on many common objects, not 
just computers.
Today, in their homes, people usual
ly look at the Web through their comr 
puters on their desktop. In the future, 
we dont think that will be the case,  
said Tribble. According to the " 
International Data Corporation, there 
will be 89 million non-PC devices with " 
Internet access by 2001.
Tribble demonstrated how several 
devices could be integrated with Java 
technologies in the future so that they 
can all be linked via the Internet. For 
example, Tribble noted that digital tele
visions are starting to become a reality  
with new products such as WebTV.
Please see JAVA, page L3
enua lamaua/ lartan uarKroom pian
A student made a grab for the football at a pickup game last Saturday.
Kriegeskotte plans to compose and conduct music after college.w
the ones that stick up in the air 
 and a chanter, which is the 
part that plays the melody. The 
chanter can play nine different 
notes, and theyre not chromat
ic, so the range you can play is 
really limited. The music real
ly relies on the embellishments 
and movements that you put 
into it.
The chanter has a double 
reed, like an oboe, and the 
three drones each have single 
reeds unlike any youll see any
where else.
TT: Is there any particular 
competition youve been in 
thats stood out to you?CK: I did one in Goshen, t 
Connecticut, which is close to 
where I live. I had only com
peted once or twice before, but 
I still managed to win a gold 
medal. Hopefully here, Ill 
start winning a lot of gold 
medals at all the games and , 
move up the ranks. My teacher 
says he likes his students tcft 
win, so hopefully that will 
come true.  

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 September 1998L3
Net junkies salivate over useless gimmicks
| W jSBj
m
The Geek Beat
by Ellen Beldner
Im not anything that resembles a 
rogrammer, but ever since I heard 
bout Java back in 1995, I have been 
uying into its promise of Write once, 
,un anywhere and the mantra that 
ava would change the face of the Web. 
,ut'l;ast spring, I was in San Francisco 
uring Sun Microsystems JavaOne 
inference. In fact, since the friend I 
-as visiting was programming the 
inferences demo, I got to stay in a 
otel overlooking the conference center 
a week.
After the first night of the confernce, I met up with my friend and 
sked how everything had gone. He 
roceeded to pull out a huge chain of 
yellow, interlocking plastic 
ieces, probably designed by some 
larketer on a bad acid trip.
They had some cool toys, he said.
Anything interesting with Java 
going on?
Nah, he said.
And since then, Ive kept my eyes 
open for Java applets on the Web. But 
the Web has a lot more toy scripts and 
annoying animated GIFs than it does 
savvy little programs streaming into 
browsers across the globe, and just like 
the Own your own personal virtual 
reality system! promise made by some 
companies a few years back, the 
mantra of Java will transform the 
Internet! has fallen flat on its face.
Not that Java doesnt have some 
very real, useful applications  its 
just that enhancing the Webs func
tionality isnt one of them, in the same 
way that streaming video and print 
design have no business being any
where near a Web server.
Why? Because the only people telling 
us that well get live video feeds over 
the Internet, along with exciting, use
ful data, have been the people who 
dont read enough science fiction to 
know how to make accurate technolog
ical predictions. If we had been listen
ing to William Gibson for the past five 
years instead of A1 Gore, we might 
have caught on earlier that much of 
the Web is hype.
Expecting Java applets to take over 
the Web has always been an absurd 
idea. Java is a full-featured program
ming language, and although its possi
ble, for example, to use it to create 
complex animations, tools like
feeds us minute details of Congress 
almost the moment they happen. 
Instead of listening to C-Span, CNN 
or, even worse, the network news sta
tions cycle data through their filters 
of objectivity and spin, we can get it
"Our TV-junkie tendencies run far too deep 
for us to scream for on-demand Web video 
in the face of 900 cable channels and a 
Blockbuster on every corner. 
Macromedias Flash do the job much 
more simply. It never should have 
occurred to the pundits to suggest that 
Java become the wave of the Webs 
future: One of the salient features of 
the Web thats been lauded since day 
one is that anyone can learn the ridicu
lously simple markup language and 
publish his or her documents. But a 
programming language takes substan
tially more time and effort to learn, and 
the trivial benefits that Java offers 
arent outweighted by the expenses of 
learning the language for most people.
Unquestionably, there are, of 
course, many useful sites on the Web, 
such as the Library of Congress serv
er (http://thomas.loc.gov/), which
ourselves. Think of the mess we 
would have encountered if the text of 
the Starr report hadnt been widely 
available: Wed hear about the cigar, 
the dress, lewd and lascivious behav
ior, and thats about it. But with the 
Internet, distributing a 400-page 
report to millions of salivating netizens becomes easier and quicker than 
dithering an image.
Lets talk signal-to-noise ratio, 
though, and look at some of the unma
terialized multimedia promises of the 
Web. Streaming audio lets you hear 
15-second samples of CDs youre try
ing to buy from cdnow.com. You could 
use such technologies to turn your PC 
into a phone, chatting cheaply with
your friends across the country, but at 
10 cents a minute, its more private 
and pretty efficient to reach out and 
touch someone via Ma Bell. Streaming 
video? Ha. And a double ha to those 
who thought a few years back that 
wed be watching the nightly news on 
our computers with America Online, 
33.6K modems, and 256-color moni
tors. Our TV-junkie tendencies run far 
too deep for us to scream for ondemand Web video in the face of 900 
cable channels and a Blockbuster on 
every corner.
The future of the Web may be found 
in dazzling virtual reality feeds 
shipped in on a T-100 line, which we 
pay for by letting a device scan our 
retinas to authorize a deduction of ecash from our cyberaccounts. But until 
that day comes  perhaps in 15 years, 
on the inside  expecting magic from 
the Web is like expecting Tinkerbell to 
sprinkle you with pixie dust and whisk 
you off to Never Neverland. So until 
then, give me cascading style sheets 
and a nice serving of small, 4-bit GIFs, 
and leave your applets at the door.
Ellen Beldner is a junior professional writing major who is saving up to buy a wooden computer at http://www.luddite.com.
Honor societies bolster rsums
BENEFITS, from page LI
such a membership con
tribute to their working 
habits and abilities in the 
workplace? Employers some
times view such a high level 
of academic scholarship as an 
illustration of the great capa
bilities of the applicant.
makes much of a difference, 
said Hall.
An honor society member
ship is undoubtedly one dis
play of the academic abilities 
of an individual, and putting 
such a merit on a resume can 
only be an advantage as far as 
job searching goes. Johnson
[Members] might have an advan
tage getting their initial job, but 
after that I dont think it makes 
much of a difference. 
 Julie Hall, Source Services
Its probably a good indica
tor that an employee is going 
to excel, said DeAngelis.
Some believe that such a 
display of academic capabili
ties could actually increase 
an employers standards of 
a particular employee. It 
honors people who have 
potential, and then you 
expect more from them 
because they have that poten
tial, said Johnson.
Although some employers 
see a true correlation between 
honor society memberships 
and excellence in the work
place, others dont see that it 
has such a significant impact. 
They might have an advan
tage getting their initial job, 
but after that I dont think it
said she always tells students 
to put honor society member
ship on a resume, as even if it 
doesnt serve as a determining 
factor, it gives the employer an 
idea of the applicants aboveaverage academic background.
Its a cue on a resume to 
help show theyve had acade
mic accomplishments, said 
DeAngelis.
The other benefits of being a 
member extend beyond the 
reaches of job searching as 
well. It gives members a 
lot of pride and honor and 
sense of accomplishment, 
said Mentzer. I still feel 
proud that Im in it, and it 
meant a lot to me as a stu
dent. I sense thats true of stu
dents today, too.
Students question groups role
SOCIETIES, from page LI
most of the members have sim
ply chosen not to take part in 
NSCS. Although only first-years 
and sophomores can be inducted 
into the honor society, members 
remain members for life.
The NSCSs problem with 
member apathy is not unique. 
Tau Beta Pi sees the same prob
lem with its members. We have 
members who come and are ini
tiated, and we never see them 
again, said Wehrer.
This trend in honor societies 
may be caused by a number of 
factors, including the motivation 
behind why people want to 
join these organizations. 
Membership in an honor society 
is seen by many as just another 
way to add to the list of things 
they did in college.
I never understood the point 
of honor societies. It seems like 
people pay dues to put them on 
their resume, said Adam 
Megacz, a junior computer sci
ence and business administra
tion major.
Members of these organiza
tions have somewhat of a differ
ent view. There is no doubt that 
some people want [honor society 
membership] as a resume 
builder, said Bill Thompson, a 
sophomore business administrtion major and member of 
Lambda Sigma, the sophomore 
honor society. But I believe that 
there are enough sincere people 
left who want to get involved 
with these organizations because 
they feel that in their own small 
way, the}' can make a difference.
While membership in such an 
organization may look good on a
resume, leaders feel that mem
bers must realize that being a 
member means more than just 
getting inducted. An honor 
society by definition is an honor 
of past achievements. It is recog
nition of ones character and 
integrity, said McDowall. But 
its not just an award  it is a 
society. Being a member means 
being active and giving some
thing back. Some people miss 
that point.
Some honor society members, 
however, attribute some of this 
apathy to the organizations 
themselves. I dont consider 
myself an active member 
because there arent many 
events. Missing an event means 
missing a lot. Ive missed one 
event, and I feel like I havent 
done anything, said Adrienne 
Messenger, a senior civil engi
neering major and member of 
Tau Beta Pi.
The purpose of having honor 
societies in the first place is ques
tioned by a number of people in 
the campus community. I think 
having an honor society at a 
school like this is redundant 
because were an academically 
achieving place, said Donald 
Sullivan, a first-year math major.
In addition, many people 
questioned why an honor soci
ety was necessary for people to 
do service. Other organiza
tions like A Phi O and East End 
Tutoring seem dedicated to 
doing things because they enjoy 
it. People should do service 
because they want to do ser
vice, not because they are a 
member of an honor society, 
said Gautam Srikanth, a senior
electrical and computer engi
neering major.
I think they are trying to be 
intellectually elite, but they are 
no better than anyone else, said 
Devin Mahoney, a first-year 
computer science major.
Some people, however, felt 
that these honor societies play 
an important role. I definitely 
support them, and I would love 
to be in one, said Ryan Kellogg, 
a junior electrical and computer 
engineering major. It is a sign 
that you have accomplished 
something and an affirmation 
that you have achieved a certain 
level of academic excellence.
I think theyre a good thing. 
Ive been to a few events that
heard anything about [honor 
societies] at all, said Kin. 
Smaczniak, a first-year under 
clared student in Humanities 
and Social Sciences.
Many other first-year stu
dents and some upperclassmen 
were unaware of honor societies 
and expressed the feeling that 
these organizations have not 
done anything to publicize their 
existence on campus.
As the first president of an 
honor society, Chamberlain has 
seen many of the problems with 
honor societies first-hand. The 
hard part is that an honor 
society doesnt have a clearly 
defined role like SDC or A Phi 
0, he said. People want a
I think [honor society members] are 
trying to be intellectually elite, but 
they are no better than anyone else. 
 Devin Mahoney 
first-year computer science major
honor societies have held, and 
they have done many things for 
good causes, said Michelle 
Kruvczuk, a junior electrical and 
computer engineering major. I 
really enjoyed Lambda Sigmas 
Kilt for Cancer fundraiser last 
year. It was great to see Mark 
Stehlik in a kilt.
Still, the significance of honor 
societies on this campus seems 
questionable based on the num
ber of people that werent even 
aware that CMU had such 
organizations. I have not
whole bunch of things from 
an honor society. Some might 
want to see and hear speakers, 
do service, or go to conferences. 
It is hard to pick and 
choose which desires you will 
actually fulfill.
While many of these organiza
tions have a lew members who 
are committed to helping their 
groups expand, in order for this 
goal to be accomplished, it 
would seem that there would 
have to be a change in the atti
tudes of manv students
Symposium highlights programming language innovations
AVA,' from page L2
Were seeing virtually 
very TV manufacturer 
fsk us how we can get 
heir TVs hooked up to 
pe Internet using Java 
ecause they know that 
hats where the future 
i said Tribble.
Other events on the 
genda were directed at 
lore specific applicaons of Java. Douglas 
ait, a senior staff engieer, presented one 
ucli topic called Java 
Telecommunications 
fld JAIN. He introuced JAIN (Java 
advanced Intelligent 
letwork), which is sima Java-based appliation that can build 
nd deploy new telecommunicatons networks using the latest 
n Internet technology. These 
w networks will feature new 
ervices which will operate as 
1St as ten times the speed of 
Urrent systems.
Lilly Rouhani/Tartan Junior Staff 
Java Day attendees collect T-shirts and other materials during registration.
Can you imagine being able was recruiting. Sun used this 
to program the hot buttons on 
your phone from the Web?
Thats just one feature of the 
application of JAIN, said Tait.
In addition to presentations, 
another goal of Java Day 1998
event as an opportunity to 
inform interested students of 
the career opportunities avail
able for them.
Sun is a technology-driven 
company. In other words, our
value to society is technology 
and innovation, said Norman 
Koo, senior director for the chief 
technology office at Sun. CMU 
is a major leader in technology 
education. Were always inter
ested in recruiting students 
from CMU to work for Sim. 
Many students appreciated 
Suns outreach to CMU and 
attended one or more of the 
events in the UC. A lot of stu
dents had already worked with 
the language.
I started writing a server 
[application] in C, and it took a 
good amount of time to get things 
worked out, said John Stultz, a 
sophomore math major. So then 
I decided to try working on it 
with Java. It only took me two 
hours to rewrite it with Java.
I found [Java Day] to be real
ly interesting, said Nathan 
Clark, a sophomore computer 
science major. There are a cou
ple of things which I didnt think 
were feasible, but I learned that 
with a little work in Java, those 
things can be feasible.
Everyone who participated in 
Java Day seemed to enjoy it, as 
evidenced by high attendance 
and audience participation in 
the question-and-answer ses
sions. Like Gosling and Steele, 
perhaps another CMU member 
in the audience will someday 
present a new Java technology 
at a future Java Day.
Welcome buck... 
voiv 6-0 AivAy/
, -*
'<'t ptV
irmi accessories 
and hadpads sol'd here! 
[or opean raiipasses and 
international student IO cards 
issued on the spot!
1 TravelCouncilCIEE: Council on International Educational Exchange
118 Meyran Ave. 
Pittsburgh
(412) 683-1881
www.counciltravel.com
Improve Your Health Naturally 
al Pittsburgh's convienicnt natural food store
Featuring:
Natural and Organic Food 
Vitamins and Supplements 
Organic Produce 
Natural Health Aids and 
Beauty Aids
5401 Baum Blvd. at S. Aiken 
Shadyside
683-7035
Open 7 Days a Week 
FREE PARKING! -

---------------------------------------------------

eauompany
STRATEGY CONSULTANTS
 We are a top-tier strategic management consulting firm located in the Washington, 
DC area
 Our clients are Fortune 100 companies in dynamic industries such as consumer 
products, financial services, telecommunication, adn utilities
 We offer exceptional compensation with acceleratedproffesional growth and ad
vancement opportunities
Please join us for an Informational Meeting 
hosted by
Jim Smist 
Executive Vice President
Monday, October 5, 1998 7:00PM 
Wean 6423
Send resume and cover letter to:
Recruiting Coordinator  Dean & Company  8065 Lesburg Pike, 
Suite 500
Vienna, VA 22182  (703) 506-3900  www.dean.com
Tomorrows Technology Can Have Your Prints All Over It!
Imagine creating innovative software 
so advanced that there is no dear cut 
competition. Thats exactly what we're 
done at Citric Systems' As the world's 
source for high-performance innovations, 
our award-winning software has become 
the industry standard for enterprise 
applications sharing worldwide. Don V 
just take a job, make an impact on the 
workI by putting your creativity and 
skills to work for Citn.r Systems!
We Will Be On Your Campus 
October 13th & 14th
Citrix Information Session 
Tuesday, October 13th 
7:00-9:00PM 
Porter Hall
Citrix On-Campus Interviews 
Wednesday, October 14th 
9:00AM-4:30PM
If' you are working toward a Bachelors/
Masters Degree in:
 Computer Engineering
i sthetb
1 Computer Science
You may qualify for one of the following opportunities:
 Software Engineer  Test Engineer
 Technical Writer  Technical Support Engineer
 Competitive Salaries  Generous Benefits  Stock Option 
& Purchase Plans (NASDAQ: CTXS)  Casual Workplace
 Onsite Fitness Center
If you'd like to have a hand in tomorrows technology, 
please visit with our representative on your campus.
Or you may forward a resume to: CITRIX, Human 
Resources, 6400 NW 6th Way, Fi. Lauderdale, FL 
33309; Fax: 954-267-2565; E-mail: hr@citrix.com
CITRIX
The freedom to creale, 
the tools to grow, 
the power to succeed
www.citrix.comAn equal opportunity employer.

---------------------------------------------------

INTERESTED
 EDITORIA L ART?
^3 * SToRV AKT?
Q v * GRAPHIC PESl,N?
Calennd ar.e:L1
 ItfFO ,RAW\CS?
 ILLSTRAHOM?
 ADVERT ISEMEKr AR.T ?
CMUr TUE -RRTkN ART STAFF
smwa mm
by Scott Adamsby Gary Trudeau
.SOME OF HI5MOST VOCAL CRITICS. UKEREP PAN BURTON ANPf&R HELEN CHENOWETH, HAVE BEEN CAUGHT IN THE SEXUAL UNP5KTOW.
THERE'S GOT TO 
BE A CUAY OUT 
' OF THIS CELL.
YOU'RE UNDER 
ARREST FOR STEALING 
EMPTY CARDBOARD 
BOXES! r~p; '
JOIN US TONIGHT
TartntJuioSfCIAL/THENEW APUPTERERS. *
THE COMPANY NEEDS 
THOSE BOXES TO MEET 
ITS RECYCLING GOALS.
POPPY?\ CANI STAY 
UP? )
BUT REUSE IS 
BETTER THAN 
RECYCLING. (~
CAT BERTH.R. DIRECTORMEANWHILE, CON6RE5S TOPAZ 
CONTINUE V 70 ACCEPT THE PRE-EMPTIVE C0HFES5I0N5OF 
MEMBERS ANXIOUS TO (SET ON WTTH THEIRUVES.~
LOCAL REPORTERS ALL OVER 
THE NATION CONTINUE THEIR 
PROBES INTO THE LIVES OF 
THOSE KJHO W/LL BE JUPGING THE PRESI PENT/
PETER. AS EX-FAMILYVALUES 
ICONS RER CM BURTON ANP REP. HELEN CHENOUJETH 60 
POWN INFLAMES... ,
2si afedsomd edae 
Cssofnc5e Dv7r vg 
IFi ue Cssl82 SucF
ON OTHER j------------
PEOPLE? r~^
-----------\r~^ EXACTLY.
I'LL READ YOUR 
FAULTS ONE AT A 
TIME. TELL ME COHEN 
YOUR. PERFORMANCE 
"Ti IMPROVES. r '
MR SPEAKER! 
I HAP AN 
AFFAIR, I REGRET IT,
ANP IPLIKE TO MOVE ON/
YOU CAN IMPROVE AN 
EMPLOYEE'S PERFORMANCE BY MAKING HIM 
FEEL BAD ABOUT j  
~tT\H I fASELFj^o
ABSOLUTELY US 
FEELCONF/PENT THAT OUR PI RTY 
LAUNPRY SMELLS 
A LOT SWEETER 
WAN THEIRS...
fAY SOURCES TELL /AE 
THAT YOURE NOT 
fAEETING YOUR J 
OBJECTIVES. I
THAT'S NOT TRUE. 
COHO ARE THESE 
SOURCES? NAME 
ONE OBJECTIVE I 
HAVEN'T MET. (
I DON'T
EVEN
KNOOO
CO HAT YOUR
OBJECTIVES
ARE. r^"
KINKY, PDSTMOPERN ADULTER/. 
VOTERS HAVE A 
CLEAR CHOICE 
HERE.
I AS OUROUJNBILL KRJSTOL HAS POIKTEP 
OUT, REPUBLICAINS TENP 
TO ENGAGE IN "OLP,FA5HICNPAPULTERZ/
MUST.. 7^ 
CONTROL 
FrSTS. r
SOMHAT$7HE WELL, PEAL? HAVE GERALPO, 
)OU EVER HAP LET ME FIRST 
AN EXTRAA5KTHIS
MARITAL QUESTION... 
AFFAIR? f'
(MR. SPEAKER,~IHBRE HAVE 
BEEN P5RSI9TENT REF15 
THAT YOU YOURSELF ARE 
NO SLOUCH IN THEAPUL. 
\ TERYPEFZRTMENT...
COHO SAID I COASN'T 
MEETING fAY ' 
OBJECTIVES?
THAT SOUNDS 
LIKE SOME
THING A 
GUILTY 
PERSON 
WOULD SAY.
THEREFORE, I HAVE 
NO REASON TO 
DOUBT THE ACCURACY 
OF THE INFORMATION
SURE. LOTSor'm tps
IN MY BOOK.
UM...ARE  
YOU SORRY?I CAN'T 
REiAEIABER.hdp mi,NEVERMNP...
WELL, SIR, YOU WERE 0PJ6INAW/ 
CHARGEP IN 1994 TO LOOK IN
TO ACCUSATIONS ABOCTTWHrTEmTER. BUT WHITEWATER ISN'T EVEN MENTJONEP. NOR IS 
11TRAVELGATEt'OR "HLEGATE."
5p.t gv.-tgyAAs STARR CHECKS 
OUT FOR MAIIBU..IN FACT, YOU MENTIONNCrrHIHSPRIstum 
. arwaweSWSkPf takSif 
S> !NSKYAFFAIR, HON IN 
giv WHICH ONLY 
Bfc.. AROSE/N ***;, Bri J*:. 6?
I'VE OECIOED TO 
BE ONE OF THOSE 
GUVS WHO SAYS . 
WHATEVER IS ON 
HIS IAIND. |
YEAH, WHAT HAVE YOU
JSSn doingFORFOURYEARS?
LEAKING.TROLLING.
wwgJSSn
HECTIC.JUPGE, HOU 
IS THERE POYCU ANYMORE MEAN? 10Y0UR \REFORT? '
BOY, THIS 
IS A REAL { 
EYE-OPENER.
JUDGE. STARR, IF YOU 
HAP NCJTHIN&ON CLIffWN 
AFTER THREE YEARS, (MfY 
HAS YOUR OFFICE EVEN 
aaxnvi OPEN WHEN THE M LEWINSKYAFIAIR \ / SURFACE??
eWFORTWFIRSrTHREE 
YEARS. WE PIPNT KNOW
se,U sS coumrFieuRE
_ OUTWHATHEVACTUALLY LONE.
[WELL, MY STAFF 
ANP I KNEWFROM 
THE VERY BE61NNIN6 THAT CUN - 
TONSHOUU? BE 
I IMPEACHED... I
00 YOU MIND IF I FILL 
THE GAPS IN OUR 
CONVERSATION COITH ^ 
RANOOfA OBSERVATIONS?
WHEN I SAY, "EH?", 
THAT'S YOUR CUE TO 
ANSWER.
SO, YOU GOT A 
LITTLE PILLOW 
THERE, EH?
BWimS WHO KNEW? BECAUSE HE H/HPS/SHT 
HAPNTPONE 1520-20. IT YET! v
eii-zabe^k ^rs^nrfi.Words by-Ally ion Palata.Pictureiby-9arbyumber-Double Malt Action!
o sow V-novV 
wWx+ i dvd -Vn\, ^uwivvier
I \jsedi an ThtP52
ex' o-f evl-Wl 
. cov\ uoj be-Wev
rye never
d.oy>e.
I beWeco\jrj/ Vm 
weanWj^ av^vj 
pan+S.
Please note that the words and pictures are developed independently of one another. Of course they don't make sense together.

---------------------------------------------------

k4s! tuelcome -hi -We 
|/ i'm Kid F, an^ i  
uour' AB&ch&f" J
ujho's ready +o 
jujrni-ning ?
|Wtj -friod, oJfcc ffie PWfaur, *^<1 I fold Agreed -ho help 
+Ke "Mot Jftffior; Raoj'fc, Seek out ffe fl/l dra^o
Dar^ ^4 'Ws 44^ W
M|| TterW y 'ffifRB1 M M iJ^ASaAH| (i a<fTrt;<idi<g
61INMetiNKi
flasi -these, 
trees! X 
coyi'i see Kuf> ^
neDer lU >
He idea of ojn
filis ill rte fiVsf > 
phce. I just fiope 
he an control 
his temper <x 
lOKile longer /
v-JlM (r-^
bJfti'+J i+;S
A Comodo
\JeJft lAiOcief ft/fad
Me Comics Survey! Raaaarrrgh!
'HCY. MW Y>Usee^ w>iTiv>6 
L LowG? J
NoPe.avsr A FewPU^UTES.
We want to know what you want to be splitting 
your side about in the comics section. So this is 
your chance! Send this handy-dandy clip-out sur
vey to us via campus mail, or email derekg+, and 
let us know!
1. Which comics do you read regularly? (circle em)
Dilate
Dilbert
Doonesbury
Double Malt Action
Dvorak
KidF
OTSIDC Of TMe Foote PRINTING CO,
 (MSS YCJf I 1>On)T sec 
Vex; AS rUCH ANYrvORe.rre ah. i finally reelCO MFfcTALe . z > KJ'T 
HAVE THAT W6XGHT  PReAi> of 55nerHN)Gov6<- r*e.
2. What comics would you like to be reading regu
larly?
Dcf-lKJTTELV CONSIDERS|J& WKAT H^PfetJev WXTK 
MATT, XT'S A OLBSSJf^G-J
wEU,, Vu'<EGT STEVE, 1 UNDERSTAND. IT'S GooPTOss vbu'fijeyJgUx.YEAH.
3. Are you a sheep? (circle one)
4. How can we make you laugh?
r-rHl(JK. X'r\ r^GT 
XTALY For A WHlLe, A Few r\/N>THS.X Vrv 6oimg rt> \jisrr rar GfcAMDPAe&sns; 
^ I'IAW*TSVR WW6M TkUGU... >
5. Do you like the new design?X r* VAX)axei> > 
Thou GM ; TH AT ITL L 
HONR AY,e ve' 
Apart..,.________
YOU TW0'fc APAC-fN
"N!B ex6-. noues,^ TO PS _____>
6. If you could change one thing about Comics, 
what would it be(besides me)?
send to:
Comics Guy
The Tartan Box 17H CRAV6F6ePAG)0 rCoMf^WlT.
L6___________________________________________________The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 April 1998

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
1 Volume 93, Issue 5The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania28 September 1998 |
A play in the life of Kresge
courtesy Carnegie Mellon University Relations 
Left to right: Jeff Statile, Darren Ritchie, and Melina Kalomas starred In Our Town.
Crew creates stage atmosphere
By ELAINE BOLANDTartan Junior Staffwriter
Worn-out faces and tired eyes may 
mask it, but its there. You can feel the 
energy backstage in Kresge Theatre as 
the opening night of Our Town ap
proaches. However, many of these ex
hausted souls are not actors  theyre 
members of the production staff.
Actors put a tremendous amount of 
time and effort into crafting believable 
characters, and polishing their perfor
mances. But most 
may not realize that 
the work of the cos
tume designers, 
sound designer, sce
nic designer, and as
sistant director is 
equally demanding.
The production staff 
puts its heart into de
signing a believable
place to complement _______________
believable characters
 the lights, sounds, costumes, and scen
ery. Often their craft goes unrecognized 
when the curtain falls.
I dont think anyone understands how 
much work goes into backstage produc
tion, said Michelle Christensen, costume 
designer and 1996 graduate of CMUs 
master of fine art costume production 
program. With the task of making every
thing everyone on stage wears, including 
the clothes of the run crew who have to be 
seen on stage, Christensen and the other
members of the costume shop have a 
wide range of responsibilities. For Our Town, the costume shop constructed six 
costumes from scratch, mainly womens 
clothing, and pulled many others out of 
stock to be fitted and altered.
Were responsible for everything from 
shoes and socks to jewelry, hose, corsets, 
camisoles  everything but the actors 
own underwear, said Christensen.
There is a good amount of outside 
effort involved, and some people have 
been working since July on the costumes.
Seniors design and act... freshmen do 
the building. The entire department gets 
involved. You get a real appreciation for 
every aspect [of production. ]
 Danielle Turbide 
Our Town assistant director
Its really a definite commitment, 
said Blakely Bering, senior drama ma
jor and assistant costume designer. 
You have to be committed or the show 
doesnt go up, Bering said, who has 
already signed a contract with Floridas 
Sarasota Opera Company as assistant 
costume director.
Many, like Bering, have chosen to make 
this their lifes work. Everyone here is 
practicing for their career, said Danielle 
Turbide, directing major and assistant
director of Our Town. Turbide is a stu
dent in the fiveyear MFA directing 
program and plans to make directing her 
career. Turbide said that a lot of work 
goes into preparing for opening night.
Seniors design and act, sophomores 
and juniors assist the seniors, freshmen 
do the building, Turbide said. The en
tire department gets involved. You get a 
real appreciation for every aspect [of 
production]. Yet, despite all of the hard 
work, she feels its worth it.
[Directing] is my passion, Turbide
----------- said. I love the theater.
Directing is a way to 
make it all come to
gether  to make my 
own visions realized 
and to try to touch the 
audience in the best 
way possible.
Gerrod Smith, senior 
scenic design maj or and 
scenic designer for Our Town, agrees with other 
production staff mem
bers that self-satisfaction is better than 
any kind of applause.
According to Smith, for this play and 
every other play produced in Kresge, the 
process of creating an effective set is 
long and collaborative. Smith said that 
first, hell talk on the phone with the 
director, read the script while doing the 
necessary research, and draw a few 
sketches of his initial reaction to the 
play. Then, hell talk more with the diPlease see SCENES, page Lll
Innovative production breaks tradition
courtesy Carnegie Mellon University Relations 
Rachel Hardin played Emily Webb In Kresge Theatres production of Our Town.
By LARITA Y. HAMILTONTartan Junior Staffwriter
Thornton Wilders 60-year-old play, Our Town, has gained notoriety for be
ing done so many times. Its a play about 
simplicity, and is produced as such. There 
is no scenery, or sound effects, and props 
are minimal. But because of that sim
plicity, Our Town is a disaster waiting to 
happen. Its so seemingly easy and so 
well-known, its hard. It is a play that 
can be done, but it must be done well or 
else it loses its believability.
The Carnegie Mellon School of Dramas 
production of Our Town, directed by 
Barbara MacKenzie-Wood, associate 
professor in the School of Drama, drew 
out the universal themes of this play 
and presented them with style. It would 
have been too easy to present it as an 
uncritical celebration of the values of a 
long lost, simpler America as MacKenzieWood put it. This production does more 
than that.Our Town takes place in a small, New 
England town at the turn of the century, 
when things were simple. The first act of
the play introduces the characters of 
Grovers Corners and the simplicity of 
their everyday lives. As the play 
progresses, love and marriage unfold in 
the second act, and in the third, death 
and the after life.
The scenery was sparse enough  
there was none, only a few pieces of 
furniture. The space instead is used by 
the character of The Stage Manager, 
portrayed by Dan Kuhlman, a senior 
drama major. His presence seems to 
remove the need for scenery. Kulhman 
drew the audience, in with his first line, 
thus making Our Town universal. 
Kuhlmans matter-of-fact presentation 
gave us the town of Grovers Corners 
with no apologies.
At times the lack of props made the 
play seem like a bizarre type of mime 
show, but the actions carried out by the 
actors seemed to be second nature rather 
than exaggerated and over-rehearsed. 
It did, however, take some getting used 
to. The lighting complemented the lack 
of props, and was very powerful. It pro
vided the kind of starry nights and early 
morning sunrises that only seem to touch
places like Grovers Corners.Our Town is not a sentimental play. 
Lines that could have come across as 
too sweet and too precious were spoker 
in earnest. When Emily, played bj 
Rachel Hardin, a senior drama major 
sits at her mothers feet and asks 
Mama, am I pretty? she means it 
There was never a time when sincerity 
was questionable, which was quite ar 
achievement on the part of the actors 
because the concept of simplicity  th< 
kind of stark simplicity in Our Town - 
is one that people can easily misrepre 
sent as emptiness.
MacKenzie-Wood made no mistake ii 
pointing out that the themes of On Town are universal. The basic things ii 
life that people do not appreciate in th 
span of their lives are the things tha 
truly matter. In this play, we have Th 
Stage Manager, Kuhlman, to guide u 
through each act.
Towards the end of Our Town, som 
audience members cried, others re 
mained silent, and it is probable tha 
some vowed to slow down and enjoy th 
simple things in life. What a novel ide<
Actress learns to balance life with dreams
By JAMES MOJONNIERTartan Art Editor
Its 6:30 pm. For senior drama 
major Lindsey Mixon, every 
weeknight at that time means 
going to Showland. Showland 
is Mixons nickname for the large 
amount of time in her hectic 
schedule that she spends rehears
ing for her role. In her third 
Kresge appearance, Mixon plays 
mother to lead character Emily 
Webb in Our Town. For Mixon, 
acting in Kresge productions is a 
chance to apply what she studies 
in class. She hopes her time on 
Kresges stage is a preview of a 
future career in acting. In the 
meantime, Mixon delicately bal
ances the rigorous schedule of a 
student actress.
Playing a mother is a role that 
Mixon finds an interesting learn
ing experience. I get casted as a 
mother a lot, said Mixon. I think 
its because Im tall.
Mixon draws upon her own 
mother as an influence when get
ting into character. I hope to 
become a mother someday, and I 
guess that hope is what excites 
me about the role. The hardest 
part of acting is showing true 
emotion. Mixon says its difficult 
to cry onstage, for example, be
cause its like standing out there 
naked, and theres nothing funny 
about it.Our Town rehearsed Monday 
through Saturday for the six 
weeks prior to opening night, 
which was last Friday. The pro
duction beggan like almost all 
productions begin  in a re
hearsal room. The cast, director, 
and stage manager work to
gether for the first four weeks in 
this room. Practicing lines and 
blocking (the movement of the 
actors on the stage) are finalized 
in the first week. The cast meets 
with their voice coach daily for 
vocal warm-ups, which include
stretching the jaws, mouth and 
tongue, and feeling sound move 
through the mouth. By the third 
week, the actors are encouraged 
to move off-book. The sooner 
the actors have their lines memo
rized, the sooner they can free 
up their hands and eyes to per
form without the distraction of 
the script.
In week five, the actors move 
from the rehearsal room to the 
Kresge stage. By then, the set 
designers have constructed the 
stage environment, and the light
ing crew has begun to work, even 
while the actors rehearse, which 
can be distracting.
The transition from the re
hearsal room to the stage can be 
the most grueling part of rehears
als, said Mixon. Theres so much 
going on. Yet, movingto the stage 
rehearsals boosts the casts mo
rale. According to Mixon, as the 
threat of opening night en
croaches, the energy among the
cast members reaches an excited 
fever pitch.
In the final weeks of produc
tion, Showland replaces 
Mixons social life. After having 
classes all day, she returns to 
the theater at 6:30 pm for re
hearsal preparations. Mixon will 
be getting ready to work for the 
next hour and a half. Makeup 
alone can take up to 30 minutes. 
To cut down on the time she 
needs to prepare her hair for the 
wig she must wear, Mixon puts 
her hair up in tight curls before 
arriving at rehearsal.
From 7:15 until 8 pm, Mixon 
dons her costume and makes sure 
her makeup and wig are perfect. 
Costumes are often custom-tai
lored, but arent used in rehears
als until the final week. How
ever, since Our Town is a period 
piece, the females in the cast 
have been wearing corsets since 
week one.
Please see ACTRESS, page Lll
Anthony DAurla/Tartan Junior Staff 
Senior Lindsey Mixon spent six hours in rehearsal each day.

---------------------------------------------------

Yom Kippur Services 
with Hillel
Happy Jewish New Year 5759
Services and Break Fast September 29-30 
at Rangos Hall in UC at CMU
Schedule of Services 
for Yom Kippur
Monday, September 28
Jewish Encounters: Yom Kippur at 8:30 p.m Hillel 
Learn about the origins of the Day of Atonement 
Refreshments served. FREE
Tuesday September 29
Erev Yom Kippur Services: 7 pm at CMU; 
University Center, Rangos Hall
Wednesday, September 30 
Yom Kippur Services: 9 am - 1 pm CMU; UC. 
Closing Services: 5 pm Rangos Hall. Come 
Break the Fast at 8 pm, Rangos Hall, UC
Coming Up....
Help build the Hillel Sukkah on Sunday, October 4 with a bagel brunch 
at 11:30 a.m. in the Park on Forbes Avenue next to Footers Cleaners
Services 
Free for 
Students*
Faculty/Staff
$36**
Community
$50**
* Break the Fast 
for students $5
**Faculty/Staff 
Community cost 
includes 
Break the Fast
Special
Reducations
Available
Pitt, CMU, Chatham, Duquesne
COMPLIMENTARY PASSESEXCLUSIVELY FOR AMERICAN EXPRESS' CAROMEMBERS.
WHEN AND WHERE.
September 29 
Beehive Coffee House
WHAT.
Cardmembers get two compli
mentary passes to a preview 
screening of Universal Pictures' 
new film Antz to be released Oct 
2nd.
HOW.
Just bring your American 
Express Card and your 
student ID to the location 
listed below to pick up your 
passes.
SPECIAL OFFER 
JUST FOR APPLYING.
Receive 2 complimentary pass
es when you apply for the new 
American Express Credit Card 
for Students (stop by the loca
tion listed below).
MORE TO COME.
Antz is one In a series of three 
major motion pictures to be pre
viewed on your campus this 
year, compliments of American 
Express.
PICK UP YOUR TICKETS HERE.
University Center 
September 28-29
See the world from 
a whole new perspective.
IZ COMING 10-2-98
www.pepsi.com/antz
i>l>lOKlTAlviVVbiUCSTOCTTURBS
Amufcon film IniStul*
See the world from 
a whole new perspective.
IZ COMING 10-2-98
www.pepsi.com/antz
i> i> i DISTRIBUTED 8Y DREAMWORKS DISTRIBUTION L.I.C.TM &  1998 DREAMWORKS U.C.
Cards01997 American Express Travel Related Services Company. Inc.
QOTLET
OPEN FOR LUNCH 
AT 11 A.M,
$599
SMALL 2-TOPPING PIZZA AND TWO II CANS OF SODAadd a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order.Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
"7MM, 0Mt/M7h
$599
CHEF SALAD, ONE ORDER Ig OF BREADSTICKS AND ONE CAN OF SODA
add an order of 16 wings for only $4.99!Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order.Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99I I mi H1 k'J * A'M
LIMITED DELIVERY AREA  MINIMUM DELIVERY
$599
SUB FOR ONE
jfSl ANY HOT SUB, ONE ORDER OF 
BREADSTICKS AND ONE CAN OF SODA 
add a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order.Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
$799
LUNCH FOR TWO
Pi SMALL 1-TOPPING PIZZA, 
 ONE ORDER OF BREADSTICKS 
AND TWO CANS OF SODAadd a fresh tossed salad for only $2.99!Not valid with any other offer. One coupon per order. Please mention coupon when ordering. Expires 6/30/99
 PRICES AND MENU MAY VARY PER LOCATION.
i

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 September 1998
Orchestra premieres new piece
By STEPHEN GORBOS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The words 20th Century Music strike 
fear into the hearts of most classical 
music concert-goers. Listeners and or
chestras tend to shy away from more 
recent literature in favor of more lis
tener-friendly music. This past week
end, however, the PSO presented a par
ticularly ambitious program  one that 
consisted entirely of music composed in 
this century.
The evening started off with Leonard 
Bernsteins celebrated Chichester 
Psalms, a work from the mid-60s that 
offers rhythmic references to West Side 
Story and a tonal Bernstein at his best. 
The Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh, 
appearing as a special guest, sounded 
superb, boasting a rich bass section and 
an equally impressive soprano section. 
Carson Zajdel, the young male soprano 
soloist in this weekends performances, 
offered just the right mixture of inno
cence and confidence to Bernsteins melo
dies. The orchestra, though perfectly
"The highlight of the evening, 
though, was the world premiere 
of Michael Daughertys 
Spaghetti Western for English 
horn and orchestra. 
complementary in the slow lyrical sec
tions, was extremely overpowering in 
just about any section with a dynamic 
marking of forte or above.
The highlight of the evening, though, 
was the world premiere of Michael 
Daughertys Spaghetti Western for En
glish horn and orchestra. Commissioned 
by the Pittsburgh Symphony Society for and commanding.
Performance starts 
season respectably
Harold Smoliar, Principal En
glish Horn, the piece is sup
posed to evoke the aura found 
in the so-called spaghetti west
ern films of the late 1960s. Its 
four movements do just that 
through the use of lush Hollywood-esque strings, brass sec
tions that move from pounding 
to lyrical, and an extremely 
balanced orchestration and 
well-written part for the solo 
instrument. Smoliar showed 
remarkable control over the in
strument, especially in how he 
handled some of Daughertys 
fairly difficult runs and pas
sages. Maestro Jansons pre
cise conducting kept the or
chestra at bay during the more 
lyrical sections, while he un
leashed it during the more 
forceful percussive sections.
The second half of the program started 
off with Jean-Yves Thibaudet playing 
George Gershwins Concerto in F Ma
jor for Piano and Orchestra. Lets face
---------------------- it  this should have
been called Rhap
sody in Blue Part 
Two: Just in case you 
missed the point the 
first time around. In 
writing this piece, as 
well as all of his other 
orchestral works,
______________ Gershwin tried to
prove that not only is 
jazz a legitimate art form, but that it 
could go hand in hand with classical 
music. As the PSO proved countless 
times this weekend, he succeeded. The 
different movements of this piece em
ploy the various rhythms and harmo
nies found in early jazz. Thibaudets 
playing was intense, powerful, precise
courtesy PSO
Jansons began as the PSO conductor last year.
The final piece of the evening was 
Maurice Ravels La Valse. Meant as a 
tribute to the memory of Johann Strauss, 
the piece is a swirling dreamlike mist 
that gradually evolves into a crazy, spin
ning, surreal masquerade. The PSO skill
fully captured the mood and intentions 
of the piece, from the mysterious begin
ning, to its remarkably well-orchestrated 
middle, to the amazingly expressive cre
scendos at the conclusion.
After the final piece, the PSO followed 
up with an encore to mark Gershwins 
100th birthday  his last orchestral 
work, a song from the film score to Shall 
We Dance, an early 30s Fred Astaire/ 
Ginger Rogers film.
It was great to hear the PSO experi
menting and getting away from the more 
traditional side of classical music. Judg
ing by the huge turnout and the enthu
siasm of the audience, this kind of programis something that Pittsburgh would 
like to hear more often.
Comic tries hand at craft of playwriting
By ROB CULLEN
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The City Theatre in South Side 
kicked off the 1998-99 season with 
Picasso at the Lapin Agile, the first 
play ever written by actor and come
dian Steve Martin. Martin is probably 
best remembered for his standup rou
tine and years on Saturday Night Live, 
in which he entertained audiences with 
his maniacal antics.
However, Picasso at the Lapin Ag
ile shows the more intelligent side 
of Martins humor. Set in a Paris 
bar in 1904, the play tells the story 
of a fictional meeting between two 
contemporaries  Pablo Picasso and 
Albert Einstein. The year is a time 
when both men are geniuses on the 
brink of becoming famous. It is the 
year before Einstein publishes his 
Theory of Relativity and the year 
before Picasso moves out of his blue 
period. Over the course of this meet
ing, the distinction between science 
and art, the meaning of what it is to 
be a genius, perceptions of the world, 
and the nature of love are all 
discussed with touches of 
whimsical humor.
What makes this a truly amazing 
play is that it blends intellectual hu
mor with cheap laughs. You know 
youre watching something distinc
tive when the theory of relativity is 
the punchline of one joke, seconds 
before another joke involving bodily 
fluids. The play makes the audience 
think of Einstein and Picasso almost 
as though they were characters in a 
Marx Brothers routine, which is only 
helped by sharp and believable deliv
ery from the actors.
This play offers the best of both 
worlds. There is sophisticated, intelli
gent humor for the smart, highlyeducated college folk, as well as sexual
courtesy City Theater 
Picasso at the Lapin Agile is the exSaturday Night Live actors first play.
innuendo and bathroom stuff, for those 
who laugh at dirty jokes to the point 
where no one else is laughing. If you 
get a chance and you have the money, 
definitely head up to South Side and 
see this play.
Picasso at the Lapin Agile plays at 
the City Theater until October 11. Show 
times are: Tuesday-Friday at 8 pm; 
Saturday at 5:30 and 9 pm; and Sun
day at 2 pm. Tickets cost $24r-$28 and 
can be purchased at the City Theater 
Box Office, 57 S. 13th Street.
By CLINTON FIELD
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The musicians outnumbered 
the audience last Wednesday as 
the Carnegie Mellon Woodwind 
Ensemble played its first concert. 
The applause barely filled 
Carnegie Music Hall as conduc
tor Denis R. Colwell took the po
dium. Whether lack of publicity 
for the performance or apathy on 
the part of the student body was 
responsible, very few people wit
nessed the impressive first con
cert of one of CMLPs two major 
student ensembles.
Barely a month after auditions, 
the Wind Ensemble had already 
prepared a respectable repertoire. 
The first piece of the evening, 
Shastakovichs Festive Overture, 
showcased the Ensembles warm 
sound and rich tone. Unfortu
nately, it also showcased the occa
sional lack of confidence or slight 
variation of rhythm, probably due 
to the groups limited rehearsal 
time since auditions. The brass 
section did not handle the many 
fanfares with the comfort required 
to make them completely effective, 
although for the most part they 
were played excellently.
Next, the ensemble played 
Holsts A Moorside Suite, next, 
one of several of his works for 
concert bands. Particularly im
pressive were the solo perfor
mances in the second movement, 
which allowed the ensemble to 
show off its most talented wood
winds. Holsts love for dramatic 
melodies could easily be heard in 
the first and third movements, 
which came across well with 
strong performances from the 
brass sections.
The ensemble showed its skill 
with less contemporary pieces 
during the remainder of the first 
half of the concert. Bist Du Bei 
Mir gave the audience a taste of 
Bach, but only a brief one. 
Slavonic Dance no. 1, imparted 
a more substantial amount of 
Dvorak, as well as his popular set 
of pieces inspired by folk dances.
The second half of the concert 
i featured a more eclectic mix of 
music. After intermission, the 
group began with Schumans 
Chester Overture for Band. The 
piece takes an old American tune
through a series of increasingly 
strange variations, which the 
ensemble handled very well. 
The variety of rhythms and key 
signatures didnt cause the qual
ity of sound to decrease: Rather, 
the group took advantage of 
them to bring out the full musi
cal potential of the work.
The next piece, Quiet City 
by Aaron Copland, gave cen
ter stage to Erin Lutz on En
glish horn and Herman Are
nas on trumpet. Lutz and Are
nas both performed well, with 
Lutz demonstrating the mel
ancholy sound reserved for her 
somewhat obscure instru
ment. At the other end of the 
shyer double reeds, the contrabassoon added another 
rarely-heard sound for the lis
tener to savor.
The Ensemble finished with 
Amparito Roca, by Jamie 
Texidor. By this time any lack of 
confidence the group might have 
possessed had faded, and the 
resulting sound blended the rich 
midand lower-brass with the 
upper woodwinds very success. fully. If this potential is realized, 
then music lovers will be welladvised not to leave the rest of 
the ensembles concerts so 
sparsely attended.
B
Play creates apocalyptic, ironic scenes
By KATIE KOWALL
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The School of Dramas Studio 
Theatre season kicked off on 
Wednesday night'with the pro
duction of this years first show, 
Steve Tesichs On The Open Road. 
Tesich, who recently passed away, 
authored numerous theatrical 
productions and screenplays, in
cluding the 1970s collegiate coming-of-age film Breaking Away.
Studio shows are cast entirely 
of juniors but are directed by se
nior directing maj ors who, for their 
senior theses, must direct a show 
of their choosing to complete their 
undergraduate degrees. Director 
Zach Morris said that he chose 
this particular play because he 
stumbled upon it and loved it.
[This play] is a dark comedy 
set in the post-apocalyptic world, 
said Morris. It is the story of two 
men trying to survive and make 
it to the land of freedom.
The set was designed in dark 
muddled colors, and the stage 
was littered with battered, yet 
recognizable objects  a war-torn 
piano, an overturned rocking 
horse. The atmospheric set com
bined with the 20th-centurygone-to the-savages style of cos
tuming laid an appropriate foun
dation for the storyline.
The play takes place after the 
second coming of Jesus Christ, in
a world that is in a state of com
plete chaos due to a long-lasting 
civil war. At the beginning of the 
show, non-speaking characters 
create a hostile, distrustful at
mosphere, using intense music 
and violent modem dance. All 
that we admire in humanity 
seems to have been snuffed out.
The main characters, A1 and 
Angel, played respectively by jun
ior drama majors Arik Luck and 
Patrick Cass Tansor, were the only 
two major speaking roles. On the 
surface, On The Open Road is the 
story of A1 and Angel, two men 
trying to make it to the land of 
freedom. But below, the story ex
amines the hopelessness of a world 
in shambles. More than just a 
story of freedom, it is the more 
ironic tale of .their clashing per
sonalities and attempts to reach 
their personal destinies. The edu
cated and snobbish A1 feels that land of freedom, they were taken j
captive and sentenced to death. As; 
they stood with nooses around their j 
necks, Angel asked sheepishly; 
what they had done to deserve this; 
fate. A1 laughed and said They 
provide the noose, we provide the! 
guilt. The men didnt know wha 
they had done, but as A1 pointed, 
out, I can think of about 10 things! 
right now that I deserve to be hung 
for. While they are so close to 
freedom, their own realization of 
their guilt, makes this scene one of 
the most powerful in the play. !
On The Open Road was a mas-;1 
terfully presented drama, show-1 
ing the audience all that is evil 
and all that is perfect in man-i 
kind. Produced with the correct; 
amount of the comic and the 
tragic, On The Open Road was aii 
excellent inauguration for thi^ 
years theater season. !
the only way to truly earn righ
teousness is to appear cultured. 
Angel thinks with his heart, and 
believes that deliverance is a di
rect result of good deeds.
The sardonic humor of this show 
was handled perfectly. Combining 
such a difficult topic with ironic 
humor makes the message all the 
more chilling. In one scene Angel 
complained about how hungry he 
was. A1 turned to him and said, 
Whats the point in eating? It all 
turns to shit anyway. Although 
this received chuckles from the 
crowd, it only brought the true de
spondency ofthe tale closer to home.
Many of the scenes were poi
gnant to say the least. The two 
men performed their roles with all 
of the emotion necessary to make 
this play a success. As A1 and An
gel approached the border of the
BelizeRussiaIreland
V\ '?m3
BOSTON
UNIVERSITY
232 Bav State Road 
Boston'. MA 2215 
617/353-98
E-Mail  ahroad@hu.edu 
Visit our wch page!  http://www.hu.udu/ahroaii
TO
YOUR ASSIGNMENT:
EXPAND YOUR UNDERSTANDING OF ASIA.
Each year the Henry Luce Foundation selects a group of outstanding young Americans to live, learn and 
work in Asia for one year. For twenty-four years the Luce Scholars program has aimed to create Asiaaware professionals who will assume leading roles in American society.
Luce Scholars Program
Who is Eligible?
 Current CMU seniors (expecting to graduate before September 1999), graduate students, alumni and 
junior faculty.
 U.S. citizens no older than twenty-nine years of age by September 1, 1999 who have had little exposure 
to Asian culture or Asian studies.
 Individuals who have a record of the highest academic achievement, outstanding leadership qualities, and 
a clearly defined career interest. Personal characteristics that typify successful candidates include creativ
ity, maturity, self-confidence, initiative, enthusiasm, breadth of interest, and sensitivity.
About the Program
The Luce Scholars Program offers grants to individuals in a wide range of professional fields for participa
tion in internships and job placements in Asia. The program is aimed at recent college graduates who are 
not Asian specialists and would not otherwise have the opportunity or incentive during the course of their 
careers to come to know Asia or their Asian colleagues.
Specific placements have included the ateliers of several leading Japanese architects; English-language 
newspapers and magazines in Hong Kong, Singapore, and Bangkok; a family planning center in Taiwan; 
the Olympic organizing committee in Seoul; a pediatric hospital in Bangkok; a forestry project in Indone
sia; and a number of local governmental agencies through East and Southeast Asia.
Application Information
Applications and more detailed information about the Luce Scholars Program are available from Janet 
Peters in the H&SS Academic Advisory Center, BH 161 (email: jmpeters; phone: 268-1080). Preliminary 
application deadline: October 30,1997. The selection committee will invite candidates to interview in 
early November and will submit three candidates for nomination to the Henry Luce Foundation by early 
December.

---------------------------------------------------

At a place where you owe
a small fortune in student loans, you need ^
a car that actually runs, and reality is waiting for you just around the next bend
Youve come far. But youve got a lot 
further to go. Thats where SONY 
Technology Center comes in.
If youre a junior or senior majoring in 
engineering, consider a career at Sony. We 
offer a competitive salary, fantastic 
benefits, graduate school 
tuition reimbursement 
and the opportunity to 
work for a dynamic, 
growing, Fortune 500 
company.
Youll be challenged 
every day on your 
job. Youll have 
opportunity for 
advancement. And 
youll be working 
in a great place, 
just outside
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania - the perfect-sized 
city, with countless cultural events and a 
great tradition of winning sports teams.
Forward your resume to your 
schools placement office. Or, contact a 
Sony representative by mailing your
resume to 
1001 Technology Drive, 
Mt. Pleasant, PA 15666, 
Attn: Professional 
Staffing, or apply 
on-line at 
Jobs.Pittsburgh 
@ccmail.sgo. 
sony.com
SONY
SONY TECHNOLOGY 
CENTER

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  28 September 1998Lll
1DH 2210
^<ff'sT.rr, , r||.,T.rr.f.TT 
\ I movies you may have seen before.....
EMILY LANDES
Thursday, October 1
Fast, Cheap, and Out of Control
I know what you are thinking but, contrary to 
popular belief, this isnt a documentary about the 
life and times of Martha Stewart. It is, however, a 
documentary about four people who are almost as 
bizarre as she is. One is a lion trainer, another 
makes animals out of foliage, the third is a special
ist in some bizarre breed of rodent, and the last, and 
closest to the hearts of some of us here at CMU, is 
a robotic scientist. What do these people have in 
common? Absolutely nothing as far as I can see. But 
director Errol Morris sees things differently. He 
cuts back and forth between interviews of each of 
the men, occasionally splicing in stock footage of 
carnivals, rats, old movie stars, and almost any
thing and everything else. The result of all of this 
slicing and dicing? An astonishingly coherent docu
mentary which, surprisingly enough, tries to deal 
with the chaos of everyday life.
At 8,10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Friday, October 2
X-Files
Wahoo!!! Paranoid freaks of the world unite! Its 
our night to rule McConomy. Let us all come to
gether to celebrate the opus of our master, Chris 
Carter. Let us watch in amazement as his creations 
Mulder and Scully fight, in fabulous suits, the allpowerful Man, not to mention his little alien allies. 
Or are they allies? Who is a friend? Who is hiding in 
the back alley? Do they reopen the X-Files? Just 
what is that black oil? What exactly do those corn
fields have to do with anything? Do Mulder and 
Scully finally get down and dirty? What was that 
noise? How do welknow the radio isnt listening to 
usl What exactly is Olean, really? I know the 
answer to all of these questions and others. But I 
cant tell you. Too dangerous. You understand.
At 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Saturday, October 3
Mulan
After years of fighting feminists, historians, and 
gay rights activists, Disney executives went through 
great pains to ensure that this movie led to abso
lutely no controversy. For the feminists they por
trayed the heroine as spunky, not anorexic, and 
most importantly a soldier who could kick as much 
ass as the men. Historians could be comforted by 
the fact that the story, barring the addition of some 
harmless talking animals and Eddie Murphy, was 
true to the actual Chinese fable. Gay rights? Two 
words: Harvey Firestein. Then McDonalds had to 
mess it all up with the most offensive marketing 
campaign to date. (Remember that commercial with 
the little girl karate-chopping the legs off the table? 
And the slogan Wok on in. And then there were all 
those gongs.) Just take a wild guess if they had any 
controversy with that. Oh well, nice try anyway. 
They can console themselves with the knowledge 
that they own half the world.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Sunday, October 4
To Be Announced
What is the meaning of life? Will there ever be a cure 
to cancer? How can we wipe out poverty? Is there 
really a God? Right now, nobody can answer these 
questions. Oh sure, we can suppose, we can argue. 
Some of us may even think we know for sure. But for 
most of us, for any real concrete answers to any of 
these questions, we must simply wait for the answers 
to be announced. And so it goes for the mightiest of all 
questions: What is the Sunday night movie?
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
ACTRESS, from page Lll
Theyre very restrictive, 
Mixon said. We have to get 
used to how to move around 
with them on.
At 8 pm, the cast and crew run 
through the entire play, which 
lasts as late as 11. Afterwards, 
the director reviews the notes and 
corrections for each cast member. 
By the time Mixon is through
with her day, it is often midnight 
or later.
The payoff arrives on opening 
night. The rushed meals, short
age of sleep, and lack of free time 
all vanish in the midst of a stand
ing ovation. For Mixon, a trip to 
Showland isnt just time man
agement and physical exertion. 
Its an exhilarating glimpse at a 
lifelong dream.
Special Egg Donor Needed 
$25,000
We are a loving, infertile couple hoping to find a compassionate 
woman to help us have a baby. Were looking for a healthy, 
intelligent college student or college graduate, age 21-33, with 
blue eyes and blonde or light brown hair. Compensa
tion $25,000 plus expenses. Your give will bring 
boundless joy. Please contact us through our representative at 1-800-776-7680 ^
I Critical Corner Use as frisbee
Less than average 
'r'jr'w' Buy it used
Recommended 
Own this
Apocalyptica
Inauisition Symphony Mercury
??
Those familiar with the combination of 
Metallica and cellos will recognize the name 
Apocalyptica, since the bands last effort, 
the appropriately titled Plays Metallica by 
Four Cellos, featured eight cover tunes rein
terpreted solely on cellos. The Finnish group 
returns with Inquisition Symphony, still 
covering Metallica but also seasoning the 
mix with Faith No More, Pantera, Sepultura, 
and a few original songs.
underpinning and melody of the tune. Refuse/ 
Resist rumbles along nicely, but feels empty 
without Max Cavaleras growling vocals. In
stead, theres a rather cacophonous cello sub
stitute that approximates the sound yet makes 
the ear long for the real thing. Still, the guitar 
solos transferred to cello are a thing to behold. 
Those with a taste for the offbeat will want to 
acquire all the Apocalyptica they can. Every
one else may get tired after a few listens.
- DAVE ELMAN
Lyle Lovett
Step Inside this House  MCA
???
of the songs, Lovett inhabits the melodies 
well, making them sound more personal 
than one would expect.
The second disc opens with the albums 
best material, three loosely connected tracks 
collectively called the Texas Trilogy. Lovett 
shifts the tempo as well as his lyrical tone 
throughout these songs and, indeed, the rest 
of the album, ranging from the peppy Bears 
to the sleepy Babes in the Woods, with each 
song describing life as he (or the songwriter) 
best knows it. For all its eloquence, though,
Although the cello has a broad range, 
something that may surprise listeners used 
to thinking of it as a mournful string instru
ment, some arrangements work better than 
others. From Out of Nowhere is a standout, 
with a strident sawtooth balancing the bass
For The Road to Ensenada, singer Lyle Lovett 
won critical acclaim as well as his fifth Grammy 
award. The album is an emotional batch of 
songs released shortly after his divorce 
from actress Julia Roberts. With his new disc, 
Step Inside This House, Lovett takes a 
different perspective, covering two CDs of ma
terial from his favorite artists and 
inspirations.
Lovetts songs this time out come exclu
sively from fellow Texans, old heroes like 
Steven Fromholz as well as contemporaries 
like Walter Hyatt. With the Nashville country 
formula nearly exhausted, the discs atmo
sphere is a pleasant change of pace, with each 
song containing little more than spare, mostly 
acoustic arrangements and Lovetts plaintive 
voice. Despite having written none
Lovetts homage to his primary influences 
isnt quite innovative enough to warrant two 
discs. For non-country music fans, its diffi
cult to consider Step Inside This House en
tirely objectively, but this collection of tales 
is a solid effort, deftly avoiding the trappings 
of most modem country music.
- ANDY FRANCIS
Designers work as hard as actors
Performances pay off 
for play participantsThis aint your parents travel agency.
SCENES, page L7
rector, who sends him details and 
quotes to inspire him.
For Our Town, this creative 
process created tensions, but pro
duced some complex ideas. After 
an unfortunate clash in ideas 
between Smith and the director 
resulting in another trip to the 
drawing board, Smith came up 
with a model of a more tradi
tional set. He then sent some 
drafts to the technical director 
who figured out how to solve tech
nical problems such as what ma
terials to use and how everything 
fitL1 together.
There is a lot of testing in
volved, said Smith.
They removed a lot of residual 
scenery that was left around, and
Anthony DAurla/Tartan Junior Staff 
Actors exercise their voices before rehearsal 
and work with a vocal coach.
extended the stage out to
wards the audience. The 
purpose of much of the scen
ery is to be functional and 
not look like traditional 
scenery to the audience, and 
make the space a more the
atrical version of the the
ater. We basically altered 
the Kresge to fit the play, 
Smith said.
Smith says he first became 
interested in theater in high 
school where he first worked 
in lighting, and then moved 
into a summer equity the
ater where he was part of the 
set and lighting crew. From 
there he got into the more 
artistic side of technical the
ater in the scenic department.
Scenery is 
such a wonderful art, 
Smith said. You can 
do anything with scen
ery. It is pulled from 
art, architecture, mood 
 everything. 
Through all of the 
drafting, sketching, 
painting, and creating, 
Smith feels that recog
nition, which is often 
rare, is second to selfsatisfaction.
The satisfaction 
comes from yourself 
and your colleagues, 
he said. It comes 
from inside.
Matthew Gratz, a 
junior drama major in 
the design option, is 
more likely to be found 
sitting up on the 
rafters than wander
ing around backstage. 
Gratz is the master
Anthony D'Auria/Tartan Junior Staff 
Student actors in Our Town do warmups at the beginning of a rehearsal.
electrician for Our Town. In 
addition to the responsibilities 
of making sure no one gets 
beaned on the head with loose 
change and power tools as he 
works with the electrical equip
ment, Gratz has the task of physi
cally putting together the plans 
of the lighting designer.
Gratz, like every other member 
ofthe production staff, uses up most 
of his free time working on the 
show. While the work is gratifying, 
it can be quite frustrating at times.
You dont know the crew until 
your first meeting with them, 
said Gratz. Trying to teach the 
crew and trying to keep the space 
versatile becomes a major time 
crunch. This is a place for learn
ing, but you also need to get stuff 
done quickly. Its tough to do both.
Alexa Zimmerman, a junior 
drama major and sound designer 
for Our Town, is another student 
pulling long hours so that the
show can be a success. 
Zimmerman describes the unique 
approach to sound in this produc
tion of Our Town.
Its all live sound, 
Zimmerman said. So, when you 
hear what sounds like someone 
shaking bottles, theres someone 
backstage shaking bottles. Its 
interesting to hear the live 
sounds. It brings you back to 
your roots and gives you much 
more appreciation for how they 
do it now  its so much easier, 
said Zimmerman.
Everyone backstage would 
probably agree that their work  
creating sets, sewing costumes, 
running lights, or making sound 
 is never easy. However, the 
excitement on opening night 
makes up for all of the hard work 
and late nights. And when the 
actors are taking their bows, rest 
assured the production staff is 
bowing along with them.
With our staff of experienced travelers, a global network of offices, 
great prices, ticket flexibility and a ton of travel services, we know 
firsthand what it takes to put together a mind-blowing trip...
...just remember to thank mom 
for packing your suitcase.
s/i
STA TRAVEL
Weve been there.
(800) 777-0112
BOOK YOUR TICKETS ON-LINE: www.statravel.com

---------------------------------------------------

{//((CALENDAR
Fast, Cheap, a Out of Control
midnight on Thursday In 
McConomy Auditorium.
X-Files
will be playing at 7:30;-I0 'pm, 
and 12:30 am .on Friday in 
McConomy Auditorium,
Mulan
will be playing on Saturday 
at 8,10 pm, and midnight in 
McConomy Auditorium.
to be announced
will be playing at 8. lOfm,
McConomy Auditorium.
Hiss or Kill
will be playing at 8 pm oh 
October 2-4 at the 
Carnegie Museum of Sri
Everest
is playing in the Omnimax at 
the Carnegie Science Center 
each day at 11 am. noon; 1.2, 
3,4. and 5 pm and also at 8 
and 10 pm on Friday and 
Saturday through December 10.
For up-to-date campus movie 
times, call X8-FLMS.
September 28,1998October 4f 199S
oncampus
| Belgian waffles, 
no meat.
Winner!
Winner!
Winner!
That beer cake 
sure was yommy!
Igor -
Do us all a favor and 
just go to HELL!
Burn in the eternal 
flame and feel your 
flesh toasting to that 
crispy perfection that 
we find on the edges 
of our cheese pizzas.Don't forget to 
tell me all about it 
either!
- Ivan
BigUP
Boundary
Boys!
Yoshi F**ker!
I dont understand 
the coconuts. 
Theyre so unnec
essary.
Where are you? I 
dont need you, but 
where are you?
Ghostbusters!
The French Table will take place every 
Wednesday evening from 5 to 6 pm in 
Skibo Coffeehouse. Everyone is invited to 
come and speak French with other people. 
For additional information, contact the 
Department of Modern Languages or Pro
fessor Rockmore.
Central Blood Bank will be holding a 
blood drive in the Connan Room in the 
UC on Tuesday from 8 am to 2:45 pm. The 
process takes only one hour, while the 
actual donation takes only five to 10 min
utes. For more information, call 209-7000
Kappa Kappa Gong Show is looking for 
talented and non-talented acts for the 
upcoming campus-wide charity variety 
show on October 3 at 8 pm in Rangos 
Hall. Prizes include gift certificates from 
local businesses and cash. The entrance 
fee is $10 for all acts, due by September 
21. Sign-up sheets are available from any 
Kappa Kappa sister, by emailing Shawna 
Goss at sgoss@and.rew.cmu.edu, or at the 
Kappa Kappa Gamma house, Margaret 
Morrison 101.
Kaffeestunde. Speak German with us! 
Join students and faculty for informal 
conversation in German at the Kaf
feestunde, on Tuesdays from 3:30-5 pm in 
Skibo Coffeehouse. People with all levels 
of speaking ability are welcome to attend. 
For more information, email Anne Green 
at amgreen@andrew.cmu.edu.
Sweepstakes, also known as Buggy, will 
be holding freeroll practices each Satur
day and Sunday morning from October 10 
through November 15. Tech and Frew 
Streets, as well as the portion of Schenley 
Drive surrounding Flagstaff Hill, will be 
closed from 6 to 9 am on those mornings. 
Community members are asked to find 
alternate routes and parking around cam
pus. Cars left in the metered areas at 6 
am on those dates will be towed at the 
owners expense.
| voice of the people j
Advertise for free in The Tartan! jIf you Know of an event onor off-campus | that has relevance to the campus community or human computers In general, feel'free to email auyoung@cmu.edu or mail it to The Tartan. Box 17 in the Carnegie Mellon University \ Center by the Wednesday before the Sunday j before the event.Vox Populi is a forum open to the entire campus communityl To submit a vox, simply email it to auyvung@cmu.edu, send II to The Tartan. Box 17 via campus mail, or drop it In the Vox Populi drop box on the ultra-quick Tartan Server.I have no Idea why the page is so ugly this week. Mr. Vox was satisfied with last week - not how it printed, but how it looked somewhere. The week before that was okay, but pretty hokey. There were big plans lor this week, but they all fell through. Oh well. There is always next week.
its 30th anniversary season on Saturday 
at 8 pm in Synod Hall. The performance 
will include works of Telemann, Handel, 
Bach, and Rameau. Tickets range from $8 
to $30. A lecture will precede the concert 
at 6:45 pm at the New Hope Christian 
Church. For additional information, call 
682-7262.
The David S. Ware Quartet with 
Ensemble Duchamp will perform on Octo
ber 5 at 8 pm in the Mellon Institute Audi
torium. The program is being presented 
by AB Coffeehouse, and tickets will be $6 
with CMU ID and $8 without.
Folk Song Themes in Music for Voice 
and Piano, a concert sponsored by A 
Bridge Across, will take place on Friday at 
8 pm in Frick Fine Arts Auditorium. 
Admission is $3 for students and $5 for 
general admission. For more information,
aroundtown
The Greater Hazelwood Octoberfest 
5K Run and Walk will take place on Sat
urday at 8:30 am. The run and walk is 
open to all for a $10 registration fee for the 
run, $7 for the walk. All proceeds will go to 
benefit community beautification. For 
more information or a registration form, 
caU 255-4772.
museums
Pittsburgh Symphony. The Symphony 
will help perk up your Thursday morning 
at 10:45 am on October 22 with its first of 
three shows for its Coffee Concert Series. 
It will be followed with a complimentary 
continental breakfast. The show, featur
ing music by Bach, Beethoven, and 
Brggen, will also be performed on Friday 
and Saturday. Shows begin at 8 pm on 
Fridays and Saturdays. For additional 
information, call 392-4900.
River City Brass Band will perform 
Around the Horn on October 10 at 8 pm in 
Carnegie Music Hall. The show will fea
ture every instrument of the band in 
solos, duets, and trios, complete with 
some light-hearted descriptions and 
explanations of each. With each musician 
taking center stage, the show will demon
strate how individual instruments con
tribute to the overall sound. For more 
information or to make reservations, call 
322-RCBB.
Organ Plus+, an organ concert to benefit 
the AIDS Interfaith Care Teams, will take 
place on Sunday at 4 pm in the Shadyside 
Presbyterian Church. A reception will fol
low. Donations of $10 are asked for.
Chatham Baroque will present concerts 
on October 9 and 10 at 8 pm and October
11 at 3 pm at the Church of the Redeemer. 
The program, Sol y Sombra: Sun and 
Shade: music from baroque Latin Ameri
ca, will feature guest artists Carol Ann 
Allred, soprano, and Danny Mallon, per
cussion. Tickets are $8 for students and 
$12 for general admission. For more infor
mation, call 365-1867.
The Carnegie Mellon School of Music
presents Gian Carlo Menottis The Medi
um, Mozarts The Impresario, and Henry 
Purcells Dido and Aeneas from Friday to 
Sunday. All performances will be in Alum
ni Concert Hall in the College of Fine 
Arts. The operas will be staged through
out the weekend in different combina
tions. Admission is $12. For tickets, call 
x8-2383.
The Renaissance and Baroque Society
will present Florilegium, an English 
Baroque quintet, in the opening concert of
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh will 
present photographs of Lockwood Hoehl 
and the paintings of Rita Martin Green 
through October 8. The works of both 
Hoehl and Green represent a high degree 
of sophistication starting from very differ
ent places in the art world. Gallery hours 
are Tuesdays through Fridays from 11 am 
to 4 pm, and Saturdays from 11 am to 3 
pm. For more information, call 263-2710.
Pittsburgh Society of Sculptors will 
open their 63rd Annual Open Exhibition 
at the Foreland Street Studios on Friday 
from 7 to 9 pm. Featured will be the works 
of local artists like Richard Hunt. For 
additional information, call Barb Kindler 
at (724)443-3069.
In Your Face is an exhibit at the Andy 
Warhol museum that will run from Octo
ber 18 until January 17. The exhibit 
explores the modes that artists have used 
to categorize behavioral types. The exhib
it includes paintings from Warhols Most 
Wanted series of 1964, originally created 
for the 1964 New York Worlds Fair. His 
series will be bracketed by both contem
porary and historic works, including 
works by Deborah Kass, Arne Svenson, 
Nancy Burson, and Rineke Dijkstra. In 
conjunction with this exhibition, a special 
interactive project will take place where 
the faces of visitors will be captured and 
displayed in the exhibition as an ongoing 
cumulative installation of community 
faces. The museum is open on Wednesday 
and Sunday from 11 am to 7 pm and 
Thursday through Saturday from 11 am 
to 8 pm. For more information, call 
Colleen Russell at 237-8338.
The Drama Department is staging a 
performance of Our Town tonight to help 
the Southwestern Pennsylvania Chapter 
of the American Red Cross. A pre-show 
reception begins at 6:30 pm in the CFA 
lobby. The play starts at 8 pm in Kresge 
Theater. Seating is limited and tickets 
must be purchased in advance through 
the Red Cross. Tickets for both the recep
tion and performance are $40. Tickets for 
just the performance are $10. To pur
chase tickets, call Annmarie Weeks at 
263-3127.
Lauren Slater, author of the critically 
acclaimed books Welcome to My Country 
and Prozac Diary, will give the first read
ing of the fall semester for the Adamson 
Visiting Writers Series on Monday at 8 
pm in the McKenna Room in the UC. For 
more information, call the English 
Department at x8-2850.
Carol Shields will speak at Carnegie 
Music Hall on October 5 at 7:30 pm as
It must be wonderful to be a legend. Nobody really knows all the 
specifics of her story. She's Chinese; she took her father's place in 
the army; she fought with honor and valor. Nobody really knows 
exactly where she was bom or even what era she comes from. But 
she is still celebrated in poetry, essays, operas, paintings, and 
now in an animated movie. Traditionally, Disney movies aren't 
completely accurate, and this one is no exception. The movie 
could have easily have been Jackie Chan in a wig doing some 
drunken boxing on some big ugly-looking Asian guy. Or they 
could have reduced the movie to some hokey soap opera where 
she fell in love with Brad Pitt with dyed hair and a thick accent 
and revealed her true identity to him in hopes of finding a recip
rocal attraction. The final product is far from this and exceeds 
what many would hope to expect from a Disney movie. While 
this isn't technically a review of the movie, there really isn't any
thing bad about it to make fun of. Sorry.
part of the Three Rivers Lecture Series. 
Shields has received many accolades for 
her work, including the Pulitzer Prize for 
her novel The Stone Diaries, the Canadi
an Governor Generals Award, and the 
Prix de Lire. For more information, visit 
the Lecture Series Web site at 
http:lltrfn. clpgh.org/trls.
Dr. Samuel Hazo will open the 1998-99 
International Poetry season, The Power 
of Wind Blown Leaves, on October 7 at 8 
pm in the Carnegie Library Lecture Hall. 
Hazo is Pennsylvanias state poet and 
International Poetry Forum founder. 
Tickets are $8 for students, $12 other
wise. There is also a special $5 student 
ticket rate. For additional information, 
call 621-9893.
Cultural Myths and Misunderstand
ings is a seminar for international grad
uate students that will take place on 
October 8 from noon to 1:30 pm in the 
Connan Room. The registration deadline 
is October 5. To register, call Kathleen 
Minadeo Johnson at x8-7970 or email her 
at kmj@andrew.cmu.edu.
Kurt Vonnegut, best known for his novel 
Slaughterhouse Five, will offer his opin
ions on current events and discuss his 
writings at the Byham Theater on
November 9 at 7:30 pm. Tickets are $18. 
To order tickets or for additional informa
tion, contact the Three Rivers Lecture 
Series at 622-8866.
Richard Hunt, a local artist, will pre
sent a lecture on Saturday at the Man
chester Craftmens Guild from 6 to 9 pm. 
Hunt has exhibited in the 1958 Carnegie 
International and has also taught here. 
For additional information, call Barb 
Kindler at (724)443-30.69.
religion
Roman Catholic Mass takes place on 
Sundays at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium, Posner Hall. It also takes 
place daily at 12:30 pm in the UC Chapel. 
For more information, contact the Ryan 
Catholic Newman Center at 681-3181.
Choral Compline will be performed in 
Heinz Chapel on the University of Pitts
burgh campus every Sunday evening at 
8:30 pm starting this Sunday. C. John 
Thickey of the Calvin Presbyterian 
Church will join the Pittsburgh Compline 
Choir in music for Prayer at the Close of 
the Day. For additional information, go to 
http://www.pitt.edu/~psalm/compline.html 
or call 682-6882.
pnoto courtesy Disney Pictures
