The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1945
Journalistic Honorary 
Holds Annual Banquet 
Thurs., November 29
On Thursday evening, November 
29, Pi Delta Epsilon, journalistic 
honorary sponsored its annual ban
quet at the Royal York Dining 
Room. Present at the banquet were 
representatives of the five Carnegie 
Tech publications: the Tartan, the 
Technical, the Thistle, the Scottie, 
and the Plaid. Jo Sunseri, president 
of the organization, was unable to 
attend because of a last minute ill
ness, but Adeline Herlick, Scottie 
managing editor, performed quite 
capably as toastmistress.
Mr. L. B. Siegfried, new Head of 
the department of printing, spoke 
quite interestingly on the present 
status of Techs campus publica
tions, made constructive critcism, 
and advanced many suggestions for 
improvement. That his remarks 
were pertinent and thought-provid
ing was shown by the number and 
character of the questions asked him 
in the discussion period.
Mr. E. E. McDonald, Grand Ex
ecutive Secretary-Treasurer of Pi 
Delta Epsilon, preceded Mr. Sieg
fried and spoke a few words. Other 
guests were Dean Yon, Dean War
den, and Dr. Muhlenbruch, faculty 
advisor of the Technical. Also pres
ent were Miss Eleanor Tallmadge, 
Miss Martha Eggers, and Mr. Goodfellow, all three honorary members 
of Pi Delta Epsilon.
Pi Delta Epsilon is a national fra
ternity whose purpose is the recog
nition of those whose work on col
lege campus publications has been 
outstanding.
Prior to the banquet, nine new 
members were initiated at the Car
negie Union. They were Jo Anne 
Clark, Elizabeth Dunn, and Evelyn 
Kane from the Thistle; Julia Ran
dall, editor, and Joel Bigelman of 
the Technical; and Joe Rymar, Mary 
De Maria, Ruth McGraw, and Ar
lene McMurray of the Plaid.
Thetas and Betas Win 
Extra Page in Thistle
Kappa Alpha Theta and Beta 
Theta Pi have won the recent con
test for selling subscription to the 
46 Thistle. The prize which will be 
awarded to the sorority and fra
ternity is an extra double page of 
candid pictures in the Thistle for 
each organization. The Thetas led 
all the campus organizations by 
selling a total of 167 Thistsles, while 
the Betas led the fraternities with 
a total of 34 yearbooks.
Of a total of 431 Thistles sold, the 
sororities signed up 371 and fraterni
ties 60. Kappa Kappa Gamma plac
ed second among sororities with a 
total of 127 books sold. Delta Tau 
Delta sold 19 subscriptions and 
ranked as the second fraternity.
The Thistle staff emphasizes the 
fact that the sale of Thistles is not 
yet complete for 300 more yearbooks 
must be sold.
By Danny Franks
Cy Hungerford, Noted Cartoonist 
To Give Chalk-talk At Assembly
An overflowing crowd is expected at chapel next Tuesday for Tech 
students and faculty will have the pleasure of hearing none other than 
Mr. Cy Hungerford, famous throughout the country as gne of the best 
cartoonists of current events.
While he is better known in Pittsburgh, where he is employed by the 
Post Gazette, Mr. Hungerford has gained national renown for his timely
drawings depicting the news of the
Bond Candidates Sell 
Near Quarter Million
When the bond drive started it 
seemed as though something, main
ly spirit, was lacking, but in the past 
two weeks the publicity has aroused 
everyones interest. On Tuesday, 
November 20, from 11:00 to 1:00 no 
one could eat his lunch without be
ing distracted by the unknown Bond 
Queen who circulated about the 
Beanery. She was dressed in a flow
ing white gown bedecked with 
bonds and a placard reading Who 
Will Be The Bond Queen? Her 
crown was significant in that it rep
resented a nickel. While she wan
dered between the tables amidst 
whistles from the boys and ahs 
from the girls, a recording of Bing 
Crosby singing the latest bond song 
was played over the loud-speaking 
system. It really made everyone en
joy his lunch and created interest 
in the bond drive.
The latest report on the bonds 
sold by the candidates for Bond 
Queen showed that the students 
enthusiasm had been aroused by 
the bond committees publicity 
stunt.
Delta Gamma  Shirley
Swaney ........................$169,800.00
Sigma Kappa  Peggy
Nelis ............................. 18,368.75
Delta Delta Delta  Car
roll Henson ................... 17,362.50
Chi Omega  Peggy
Wentzel ........................ 14,768.75
Alpha Epsilon Phi  Dor
othy Feldman.............. 13,668.75
Kappa Kappa Gamma 
Helen Jaffurs.............. 600.00
Independent  Virginia
Mulhallan .................... 112.50
Kappa Alpha Theta 
Pat Werner.................. 75.00
Only the freshman candidate, 
Linda Lee Cowherd, has failed to 
make any report during this drive. 
Perhaps if the freshmen would try 
to help her sell bonds they could 
show the rest of the school what 
their class organization can do. All 
bond blanks must be at the cash
iers office by 4 oclock, December 
12, in order to be credited. The can
didates must not forget that all 
bonds must be handed in by one 
Continued on page 4
Winter Social Season 
Features Sno-Ball
It looks like the old Snow Ball is 
really going to roll. The second 
semi-formal dance of the year is all 
set to be held across the park in the 
Schenley Hotel ballroom from nine 
until one on Saturday, December 14.
At $2.40 a couple Techites will 
at last break away from ye olde 
gymnasium and discover in what 
surroundings civilized people like to 
dance. Of course there are bound to 
be some who will miss the gayly 
decorated basketball hoops, but for 
most it is going to be a welcome 
change.
The music will be that of maestro 
Bernie Armstrong. Bernie has been 
playing in and around Pittsburgh 
for quite some time, and for all 
those who have had gripes about 
previous bands, here is a personal 
guarantee of real satisfaction a week 
from Saturday night.
The highlight of the evening will 
be the crowning of the Campus 
Bond Queen at intermission time. 
Though a few of the details are yet 
to be ironed out, the committee of 
Irv Aisenberg, Lou Emmel, and Tom 
Lakowski has worked up some ideas 
that are sure to make the intermis
sion and dance surpass all expecta
tion.
According to a new student coun
cil decision, the boys are requested 
not to send flowers.
Square Dance Held 
Last Saturday Night
On Saturday evening, December 
1, a group of a hundred and fifty 
met at Thistle Hall from 8:30 until 
12:00 to try their luck at folk danc
ing. Mr. and Mrs. Michael Herman 
of New York were to be callers, but 
at the last minute Mr. Herman was 
sick, so Mrs. Herman carried on 
quite capably alone. Music was sup
plied by the Stanford Strings* 
Quartet.
The dance was sponsored by an 
informal group, including Miss 
Dorothy Kanrich of the Tech phys
ical education department. The 
group is trying to promote folk 
dancing in Pittsburgh. This is the 
fourth such program they have 
sponsored, and they are planning 
another one at C.I.T. in the spring.
The dance included square figures 
and traditional folk dances of Bul
garia, Russia, Mexico, and other 
countries. Mrs. Herman was dressed 
in a peasant outfit, red boots, wide 
skirt. Many of the dancers were 
dressed in peasant or farmer 
clothes.
The W.A.A. sold tickets and took 
care of publicity on campus. They 
also sold refreshments in the Black 
Cat during intermission.
day. His work on the front page of 
each edition of the Post is looked 
forward to by hundreds of thous
ands in the Pittsburgh district.
Appearing in an assembly spon
sored by Interhonorary Council, Mr. 
Hungerford will give, next Tues
day, one of his well known chalktalks, which usually are as fasci
nating to see as they are to hear. He 
plans to relate a few of his experi
ences which he will illustrate in a 
style similar to his cartoons.
While he has been with the same 
morning daily since 1927 when the 
Post and the Gazette merged, he has 
had many offers to go elsewhere; 
but he says, Id rather stay in Pitts
burgh. (Ed. note: the man must 
be mad). Previous to his present 
position, Cy worked as a reporter 
on the old, now defunct, Pittsburgh 
Sun. He spent his early childhood 
in Indiana until his family moved to 
West Virginia, where he lived be
fore coming to Pittsburgh.
Interhonorary Council is to^t)e 
complimented on securing Mr. Hun
gerford. Their only problem now is 
to find room for the large turnout 
expected.
New CIT Kiltie Band 
To Appear At Rally
In the gym from 7:00-9:00 on 
Tuesday night, December 11, the 
night before the C.I.T.-Westminster 
basketball game, the campus first 
post-war pep rally will take place. 
Although this game is third on the 
schedule, it will be the first really 
important one. Highlight of the rally 
will be the debut of our reborn 
Kiltie Band, whose name is famous 
throughout the country. Pep ral
lies preceding intercollegiate games 
have been colorful campus affairs in 
the past. Their revival should spur 
the lagging college sports spirit.
According to Coach Max Hannum, 
the outlook for this years team is 
more than promising, in fact, dog
gone good. He expects to show the 
school some real basketball, some 
exciting games, and a bagful of vic
tories. A large and enthusiastic turn
out will be inspiration for Maxs 
hard-working boys. So, if you have 
any college pride or loyalty, skip 
over to the gym. There you can 
wear out your unexercised vocal 
chords, set that old enthusiasm sim
mering and that old blood boiling.
Important!
Chi Omega lost a small black 
notebook in Skibo about two weeks 
ago. As it contained the minutes 
of an important meeting, it is abso
lutely necessary that it be returned 
immediately. There is a reason
able reward offered to the finder.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1945
CditoJl'. AfuncUcUfi
Naughty, Naughty!!
By the time they reach the hallowed halls of Industries and Margaret 
Morrison, Tech students are expected to act in a moderately adult and 
normally courteous manner. Of late there have been definite signs that the 
kiddies on the campus are only slightly adult and definitely not courteous 
at all.
We know that none of you are particularly happy about the Skibo 
situation. We know that you want a new recreation center; we know that 
you think the prices are too high; and we know that you hate to carry your 
trays. We realize that the logical explanation offered in answer to your 
gripes in this column dont make you any happier about them. But, how
ever, and nevertheless, you dont have to take out your grudges on the poor 
innocent waitresses in the Coffee Shop and the Beanery. We hear that you 
have been guilty of calling the girls who are trying to serve you some very 
unprintable names and of being extremely unpleasant to them when they 
try to hold you to Skibo rules.
The directress of Skibo, Mrs. Chew, who has worked in Carnegie 
eateries for many years, says that this years students are the most impolite 
and unkind she has ever had to deal with. She and the men and women 
who work under her have been very much hurt by your unkindness. The 
dissatisfaction you feel about Skibo is only in very small part, if at all the 
fault of Mrs. Chew and her staff. Even if it were, you have no right to treat 
them rudely. They are doing a service which is valuable to you and they 
deserve as much of your respect as do your friends and your professors. 
Try putting a few of those democratic principles were all so proud of to 
work in Skibo today. Itll make things a lot easier for the people who 
work for you.
Something else happened last week on campus which makes the im
maturity of a few of Carnegies students extremely apparent. Between 
ten and eleven oclock, on Monday some witty character took a nice sharp 
razor blade and deflated all four tires on a vets car which was parked 
behind Industries. If this horribly wasteful act was done in revenge for 
some imagined or actual injury, the perpetrator certainly can be accused 
of adjusting to life in an extremely immature manner. If it was supposed 
to be a joke, were sorry but it just isnt funny.
Such occurrences as the rudeness in the Skibo and the tire-slashing 
episode are not a credit to Carnegie Institute of Technology. We hope that 
you will not be guilty of the same or of similar stupidities. C. H.
Lets Unshackle Publications
The war is over, and has been over for three and a half months. In 
all phases of life, reconversion is the keynote, and the cry is, Back to 
normal. The world desires to get away from the horror, the pressure, and 
the temporary substitutes necessary during wartime. This is only natural, 
and it is better that we follow pursuits of a saner nature.
Colleges are no different than any other activity in this desire to return 
to normal. They have experienced lean years in which male students were 
virtually eliminated; profs were taken for work on research; school 
facilities were commandeered for military use. In general, colleges did not 
function as colleges. A most notable sign of this wartime condition was the 
falling off of that intangible but important school spirit.
A major part of school spirit is reflected in publications. They are the 
one medium with which every student comes in contact. The quality and 
interest which a publication shows is a fairly direct measure of the school 
spirit. When there is an abundance of school spirit, keen interest is taken 
in all activities. On a publication this interest is shown by resulting stiff 
competition for the various editorial positions. The sharper the com
petition, the greater the possibility that the staff chosen will be the best 
possible in the school. As the interest shown here carries over into all 
phases of campus life, the college, as a result of increased school spirit, 
benefits.
The problem then becomes: How can a publication be developed to a 
maximum? In working to get the best possible, we should overlook or 
disregard no possibility; otherwise the maximum will not be achieved. So 
when considering the various possibilities, the main criterion should be, 
Will this help the publication achieve its goal? If it does, it is desirable 
and should be adopted as soon as possible. Of the possibilities at present, 
there are twoone called the scholarship plan, the other, the salary plan.
It is a well known fact that a person does something because by so
Continued on page 8
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2600 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
DMMMNTtD PON NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
National Advertising Service, Inc. After ffice Hours Cali
College Publishers Representative Editor-in-chief ........................SC. 6519420 Madison Avt. new York. n.y. Business Manager..................EM. 9424
Chicago  Bo*to  Los Aimelcs < Sam Francisco 
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act o'f March 3, 1879. 
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor ... ................................................................................................................... Clara Herron
Business Manager ......................................................................................... Harold Gottesman
Managing Editor ......................................................................................................Augie Binder
Sports Editor ..................................................................................................... Don Clendennen
News Editor ............................................................................................... Mary Jane Horridge
Copy Editor .................................................................................................................. Boo Girts
Photographer ................................................................................................................ Dan Franks
Headline Editor.......................................................................................................Ben Schwartz
One of the Girls
Jo Sunseri
If someone asked you Who was 
the first woman to edit the Thistle? 
you wouldnt have to delve far into 
the history of Carnegie Tech. It all 
happened last year, and she is still 
on campus  that slim, gray-green 
eyed, vivacious blonde, Jo Sunseri. 
This year she is relaxing from her
gruelling year as Thistle editor by 
serving as president of Pi Delta Ep
silon (national journalistic frater
nity) , as activities chairman of 
Kappa Kappa Gamma, as PiDE rep
resentative to Womens Guild; and 
by working as a senior costume eco
nomics major. She was on both the 
Scottie and the Thistle her freshman 
and sophomore years; she has been 
pledge captain and marshall of
KKG; in fact, she is a truly active 
Techite.
Jo has a definite and varied list of 
passions. Tech heads the list, fol
lowed by chocolate ice cream and 
shrimp cocktail (separately, please), 
Strauss and Beethoven, Tommy 
Dorsey and Gregory Peek, jitterbugging (mild) and sewing, shoes and 
evening clothes. As for men, she 
doesnt hesitate to outline her ideal. 
He should be tall, a stimulating 
conversationalist with a sense of 
humor, and a smooth dancer, (You 
lucky guys who measure up, the line 
forms at the right.)
If Jo could have the opportunity 
to do anything tomorrow, just by 
rubbing a magic lamp, she would 
choose to go back to New York and 
live through some happy days of 
last summer again. She went to New 
York as Techs representative to 
Jonathan Logans college advisory 
boardall expenses paid. There 
were three or four days of teas, pri
vate showings, dinners, and sight
seeing. To cap the climax, Jo was 
able to take in the Kappa convention 
on the same trip.
After graduation, Jo expects to 
study merchandising at Tobe Col
berts school in New York. After 
that, maybe New York or maybe 
Pittsburgh. (But she has always 
had a secret longing to be an air
line hostess.) Were glad we wont 
have to say goodbye for at least six 
months, Jo. To your statement, I 
really feel that I belong at Tech 
now, we all reply with a hearty, 
You do!
Student Council Minutes
Seventh Meeting, 1945-46 
November 18. 1945
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
p. m.
Present: Misses Clark, Emmel, Hor
ridge, Irwin, Stewart; Messrs. Aisenberg, 
Binder, Lakowski, Nutter, Straka, Stine, 
and Yurchison.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the follow
ing petition be approved by Student 
Council:
Interfraternity Council requests per
mission to hold a dance on the evening 
of January 12, 1946. The dance will be 
held off campus.
Motion carried.
The Student Council Dance to be held 
December 14, 1945, at the Schenley Hotel, 
will be called the Snow Ball; the price 
will be $2.40 per couple.
Budget Committee:
Miss Emmel moved that the Technical 
and the Tecvet Budgets be approved.
Motion carried.
NEW BUSINESS:
It was suggested that the following 
Proposed Amendment to the Student 
Council Constitution be voted upon at a 
joint General Assembly-Pep Rally to be 
held from 7:00 to 9:00 December 11, 1945 
in the Mens Gym:
In the event that any .regular voting 
member of Student Council is not present 
at any meeting, the non-voting member of 
thatCollege will have the power to vote 
and shall be counted as a regular mem
ber in the determination of a quorum. 
The two non-voting members from 
M.M.C.C. will each have a vote.
It was moved that Mr. Yurchison 
schedule and conduct this Program. 
Motion carried.
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin.
Nine Years Ago
Freshmen were invited to be in
terviewed for work on the Tartan, 
the leading campus publication at 
the office in Room 15 Industries 
. . . Tech completed 10 out of 18 
passes but still lost their opening 
football game at Notre Dame, 20-6 
. . . Cool Dozen restarted a pro
gram, the Tartan Quartet Hour, 
over Radio Station WWSW . . . The 
Kiltie Band was featuring a Drum 
Major Duet . . . Homer E. Sterling 
of the department of printing won 
first prize in a contest on type faces 
in advertising . . . Miss Laila Ikola, 
32 home economics, sold at the
Commons her special candy bars 
known as La-a-la Candies . . . 
When will we get a new library; 
The Hut has been temporary for 
20 years and promises to be so for 20 
more! . . . Chauncey Kelley, mu
sic graduate, was awarded a scholaship at the Juilliard School of Music 
in New York, but to accept it had 
to keep his job playing horn in the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. 
So he had to commute on weekends 
from New York to Pittsburgh . . . 
The new Carnegie publication, the 
Carnegie Technical, featured an ar
ticle by Dr. Webster Jones on 
Whither Engineers . . .

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN9
Drink Invades Maggie Murph
History has been made! An event, 
as impossible as the crossing of the 
Rubicon by Caesar or the Alps by 
Hannibal and as revolutionary as 
the atomic bomb, has occurred in
and expectant students, made the 
official dedication on Tuesday, No
vember 27, in the front hall of Mar
garet Morrison. This portentous oc
casion marked a milestone in the 
history of the college! In his address, 
Dr. Watkins marked the progress of 
the college in a few well-chosen 
words. With the arrival of Mr. 
Keck, said Dr. Watkins, heat was 
installed in the building; we now 
have light on the second floor; 
drinking is of today being resumed; 
and it is rumored that soon there 
may even be air in all of the class
room. For the students, this has cli
maxed a long struggle to obtain the 
liquid substance so necessary to the 
soothing of parched tonsils. With 
this solemn note the meeting was 
adjourned to the chapel for Thanks
giving.
The unveiling? Oh, yes, Margaret 
"Morrison is now the proud possessor 
of not one but two modern drinking 
fountains. Three cheers!
Prizes to be Offered $1500 Prize Contest 
For Dramatic Writing Opens For Students
The Dramatists Alliance of Stan
ford University is offering this year 
four awards in dramatic writing; 
one of $100 for verse drama; one of 
$100 for full length prose drama; for 
radio plays an award of $50; and an 
award of $50 for dramatic critic
ism. No second prizes are offered, 
but runners-up and the prize-win
ners are recommended to leading* 
producers and publishers.
Many privileges are extended to 
contributors, the opportunity to ob
tain a critique of their work for a 
fee of $4, introduction to members 
of the Alliance in the theater, advice 
and assistance, and the appearance 
of every contribution in the lists of 
the Alliance Bulletin.
Writers should send for informa
tion as soon as possible, as the final 
date of the contest is March 20, 1946. 
The address is Dramatists Alliance, 
Box 200z, Stanford University, Cal
ifornia.
A $1500 prize contest open to all 
officially enrolled college students 
has just been announced by Tomor
row magazine. The subjects are 
short stories and articles, and the 
first prize for each is $500, while the 
second prize for each is $250.
The choice of subject matter for 
both stories and articles is left to 
the discretion of the contestants, 
and no theme is actually pro
hibited. Manuscripts will be judged 
solely on the basis of literary merit 
and clarity of expression.
Length of manuscripts may range 
for 2500 to 5000 words. The notation 
Entry for College Contest along 
with the name and address of the 
contestant must appear on the en
velope and also the first page of each 
manuscript. Return postage must 
also be included.
This contest closes on May 1, 
1946. All entries should be mailed to 
College Contest, Tomorrow, 11 East 
44th Street, New York, 17, N. Y.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
lege! Drinking, generally discourag
ed by the school, has been made pos
sible once again!
Dr. Watkins, director of the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College, 
speaking before a crowd of eager
E. D. Smith Appointed 
Social Relations Prof
President Doherty announced on 
November 20, that Professor Elliot 
Dunlap Smith, former Master of 
Saybrook College and professor of 
economics at Yale University, has 
been appointed Provost and Maurice 
Falk professor of social relations at 
Carnegie Tech, to begin his duties 
here in March, 1946. Professor Smith 
is not new at Tech, for in 1945-46 he 
occupied the Maurice Falk Chair of 
social relations here as visiting pro
fessor.
In 1913 Professor Smith graduat
ed from Harvard, and later receiv
ed an L.L.B. degree, and an honor
ary A.M. degree from Yale. His di
versified activities include: Director 
of Investigation, United States 
Tariff Commission in 1919, Lectur
er in Social Ethics at Harvard in 
1926, Chairman of the Economics 
Department of Yales Saybrook Col
lege, and the author of such books as 
Psychology for Executives and 
Technology and Labor.
Professor Smiths principal inter
est in teaching is in the develop
ment of professional education, par
ticularly that which will develop in 
the student the ability to think for 
himself.
United War Fund Drive 
Remains Open on Campus
Very little money has been turn
ed in on campus for the United War 
Fund this week. The students are 
short $1500 with $4500 having al
ready been subscribed.
The drive in the city, and there
fore on campus, will remain open 
until the citys total of over five mil
lion dollars has been obtained. The 
city lacks three fourths of a mil
lion.
Compared to this, the campus 
shortcomings may seem insignificant 
but, after all, big oaks from little 
acorns grow, and if we do not sup
ply the money, the drive will be un
successful.
Tri-Delts Announce 
Revival of Scholarship
Delta Delta Delta, national wom
ens fraternity, has announced that a 
number of scholarships will be 
available again to women students 
in colleges where there are chapters 
of Delta Delta Delta. The awards 
will be made February 1, 1946, and 
the gifts will be sent at once to the 
applicants selected. Not more than 
$200 will be awarded on any one 
campus.
Applicants may or \ may not be 
members of Delta Delta Delta but 
should be juniors or seniors work
ing towards a degree. They must 
be women of fine character, who 
will be valuable citizens in the post
war reconstruction period, and who 
are in need of financial assistance 
because of economic dislocations re
sulting from the war.
Application blanks may be secur
ed from Mrs. F. D. Coleman, 3050 
Stratford, Lincoln, 2, Nebraska. 
Completed application blanks must 
be in her hands by January 1, 1946. 
The Delta Delta Delta Committee on 
awards shall be the sole judge of 
the respective merits of the appli
cants and will select a limited num
ber of recipients from those apply
ing.
Chapel
Mortar Board, senior womens 
honorary, presented an interesting 
and educational chapel program 
with an unusual movie analyzing 
personality, character, and charm. 
In addition to this very stimulating 
picture, a new Carnegie song was 
presented to the audience. Although 
written a few years ago, the song 
was just recently discovered by a 
group of Tech students. It had been 
written by one of Techs own fac
ulty, Professor Robert Schmertz of 
the architecture department.
Those who attended the previous 
chapel, which was sponsored by the 
Tecvets, were addressed by the Rev
erend G. Mason Cochran of the 
Highland Presbyterian Church. Se
lections were sung by the Mens 
Glee Club and the Chapel Choir.
for me!
New developments, offering advantages of speed and 
economy in construction, are being fully used in our pro
gram for extending and improving farm telephone service.
Among these are mechanical pole-hole diggers and 
plows for burying wire underground. Sturdier steel wire 
that permits longer spans will require fewer poles.
And we are experimenting with "power line carrier 
to provide telephone service over rural electric lines. 
Radio, too, is being studied for use in connecting more 
isolated sections with telephone exchanges.
Providing more and better rural telephone service is 
part of the Bell System plans for constantly improving 
nation-wide communications service.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM f jO
More farm life

---------------------------------------------------

The CRUISER 
Style 4654
f650 SS50
W.L.p0UGLAS#SH0e CO.. BROCKTON 15. M*6B.
1' ' ' IPITTSBURGH .
203 FIFTH AVENUE dufi
417-19 East Ohio St., N. S.
fo 6223 Frankstown Ave. (E. Liberty) V *'*
One of the Boys
Andy Pepper
Well, we finally found him! Who? 
Why an honest-to-goodness senior 
who will be graduating not just 
soon, but actually this February, 
1946. And since weve gone this far, 
we might as well break down and
tell you that we are talking about 
Andy Pepper, B.M.O.C. par excel
lence.
Andy, a native Pittsburgher, has 
earned an enviable place in campus 
honors. He is president of Phi Kap
pa fraternity; Tau Beta Pi represen
tative on Interhonorary Council; 
vice-president of Pi Tau Sigma, me
chanical engineering honorary, pres
ident of the Tech chapter of the 
American Society of Mechanical En
gineers; a member of the Institute of 
Aeronautical Sciences; and a mem
ber of Theta Tau. More recently, he 
has been elected to Omicron Delta 
Pappa, a senior honorary.
In the unique combination of 
scholarship and activities, Andy has 
managed to include some work on 
intramural sports and as general 
chairman is anxiously looking for
ward to working on the bazaar to 
be sponsored by Interhonorary 
Council (plug, plug!).
Usually capable of coping with 
almost any situation, Andy found 
himself trapped one day while par
ticipating with a fellow student in a 
heated dissertation on the merits 
and demerits (mostly demerits) of 
a certain professor. As he sputtered 
forth his opinions with great gusto, 
who should be crouched not more 
than two feet away butof course 
you guessed itthe old prof himself. 
Brother P., our sympathy is yours.
Andys taste in clothing is rather 
in between and his choice of top 
movie stars is Ingrid Bergman. A 
first-class peeve is provided by Mr. 
Anthony, whom he hates, loathes, 
despises, and abominates. In other 
words, he dislikes the guy. Andys 
only vice is that he smokes like mad 
usually a pipe but a cigar every 
now and then for the sake of variety. 
In his spare time (are you kidding?) 
the funnies win out every time!
Andys heart, however, is def
initely in his work and, so, upon 
graduation (those magic words 
again) he hopes to acquire a fellow
ship at M.I.T. Lets hope he gets it.
Glee Club Changes Time
At last Fridays meeting, the re
hearsal time of the Mens Glee Club 
was changed to five oclock Mon
day and Wednesday. Many inter
esting events are being planned, and 
tentative concerts are in the offing. 
Any one with these hours open is 
urged to report to Room 103 Mar
garet Morrison at the scheduled 
times.
Tec vets To Give Party
On Friday, December 7, at 9:00 
P. M., the Tecvets will give a party 
for the girls of Whitfield Hall. 
This is in return for the one which 
the girls held for the Tecvets. Can
ned music, refreshments, and enter
tainment promise to make an inter
esting evening.
SPECIAL STUDENT'S MODEL!
10" LONG 
4" WIDE
You can be a mathematical wizard with 
this sensational, new Multi-Slide Rule. It is a 
professional technician's scalenot a toy. 
Now especially designed for students' use. 
Anyone can use it Sturdily built Clear, 
legible print. SLIDE INDICATOR OF 
GLEAMING PLASTIC. Fits 3-ring binder. 
Valuable far beyond its meagre price. 
Sold at only $1.00 (complete with carrying 
case) as an introductory offer. No stamps, 
please. If y^fr-are not more than pleased, 
return it within 10 days and your $1.00 will 
be cheerfully refunded.
MULTI-SLIDE INSTRUMENT 
CORPORATION
P. 0. BOX S0JS DEPT. U CHICAGO. ILL.
POST-PAID
COMPLETE
PRICE!
INCLUDES 8 EXTRA EXCJJSIVE TABLES 
NOT FOUND ON OTHER RULES
Fainlact LOGARITHM TABLESIGNS lid LIMITS if 
VALUE isamtd by trliUMetrlc functionsTabic it 
NATURAL TRIGONOMETRIC FUNCTIONSTab 1 
TRIGONOMETRIC FORMULAE Table il SLIDE RULE 
SETTINGSTabli (t GENERAL EQUATIONSLang 
list tf email MATHEMATICAL FORMULAE8ECIMAL equlvalaats it a Iractlai
Local Draft Boards 
May Defer Engineers
This week Selective Service rec
ommended to local draft boards a 
liberalized draft policy in regard 
to engineering and science students 
and teachers. The directive spec
ifically recommends that engineer
ing and science students who have 
completed three years of undergrad
uate studies and have at the same 
time been engaged in research work 
for two years be deferred indefinite
ly. Graduate students in engineering 
and science are recommended for 
deferment regardless of whether 
they have been engaged in research 
work, as have all teachers of engi
neering and science at recognized 
institutions. Engineering students 
are defined as those majoring in me
chanical, civil, and electrical engi
neering; science students, those ma
joring in physics, chemistry, and 
mathematics.
It should be emphasized that this 
is merely a recommendation to local 
draft boards and there is no guar
antee that the local boards will ob
serve it if they fail to meet their 
quotas otherwise; however, most 
draft boards will honor it.
The purpose of this liberalization 
of draft policy is manifestly to con
serve our supply of skilled scientific 
men, more important than ever for 
military purposes in this atomic age. 
This change in draft policy is con
trary to announced Army and Navy 
policy of no favoritism in early 
discharge of scientists and potential 
scientists.
Technical Proposes 
To Revive Teehsperts
Attention! All you geniuses (or is 
it genii). Heres your chance to get 
rich quick but really the easy way. 
All you have to do is not know the 
answer to a tough question. The 
Carnegie Technicals Teehsperts are 
being revived, reincarnated, rein
stated, or whatever the word is, but 
they wont stay in business long un
less they get some questions to an
swer. Thats where your part of it 
comes in; whenever you run into a 
problem on a technical subject (Ed. 
note: your love life is not considered 
a technical subject) that you cant 
solve, just send it in to the Techsperts c/o The Carnegie Technical 
and theyll do their best to solve it. 
If they get the solution, it will be 
published in the next issue of the 
Technical; if they dont, theyll send 
your five smackers as consolation. 
But everything depends on their 
getting enough problems to make it 
worth while to bother with them, so 
come on brains and do make with 
the brain teasers.
Bond Drive . ..
Continued from page 1 
week after the issue date. No faculty 
bonds can be credited to any candi
date. On December 14 the court of 
the five leading candidates will be 
hostesses at the Snow Ball with the 
highest bond-seller reigning as 
Queen of the dance. The climax of 
the dance will be the crowning of 
the queen during the intermission. 
As the end is coming closer, every
one is anxious to find out the final 
result of the Bond Queen Drive.
1202 Market St., Wheeling
CARNEGIE TARTAN _________TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1945

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5CIT SPORTS 
Intramural Only
Roundup
Intramural sports once again have 
taken the spotlight following a 
weeks inactivity due to the Thanks
giving holiday. The volleyball league 
entered its second week of compe
tition, and table tennis has invaded 
the campus on a grand scale.
The PiKAs appeared to have had 
a number of holiday practice ses
sions as they bounded back from 
their initial defeat to cop a couple of 
contests by rather decisive margins 
and finished the week in a four way 
tie for first with the SAEs, Betas 
and Scwelch. The PiKAs toppled 
the Beta Sigs from the undefeated 
ranks 21-13, 21-18 and then repeated 
their feat as they handed the Betas 
their first loss 21-14, 21-15.
SAE stayed in the running by 
dropping the Beta Sigs for their sec
ond straight setback 21-12, 21-11. 
Scwelch out fought the DUs, and 
the Betas turned on the pressure 
in the last game to send the Tau 
Delts to the showers with a score 
that read: Betas ahead 21-14; 16-21, 
21-7. The TXs faltered down the 
home stretch as they battled the 
Tau Delts in an attempt to climb 
out. of the cellar. The Tau Delts lost 
the first 17-21, came back to win 
the second 21-4; then pulled ahead 
24-22 in the only duece game so far 
this season.
Volleyball standings: Won Lost
Pi Kappa Alpha ................ 2 1
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.......2 1
Scwelch ............................... 2 1
Beta Theta Pi...................... 2 1
Delta Tau Delta..................1 1
Beta Sigma Rho..................1 2
Tau Delta Phi .................... 1 2
Delta Upsilon .................... 0 2
Theta Xi ............................. 0 2
The table tennis singles tourna
ment completed its first round with 
few if any surprises, and the doubles 
followed suit. The second rounds be
ing played this week should feature 
a number of good matches with the 
possibility of one or two real upsets. 
The winners are reminded to be cer
tain they turn in their scores to the 
Intramural office within twenty-four 
hours.
Both leagues in the table tennis 
team competition saw a pair of 
matches won by comfortable mar
gins as the TXs and the PiKAs 
topped the American and the Beta 
Sigs and Scobell" headed the list in 
the National league. The TXs took 
three singles from the Phi Kaps to 
win 3-1, while the PiKAs made a 
clean sweep of the Delts 5-0. The 
DUs grabbed a close doubles match, 
but Scobell chalked up all four 
singles to win 4-1. The SAEs lost to 
the Beta Sigs 3-1.
Tartan Basketball Team Drops 
Opener To Geneva, 56-31
WOODLAWN 
PHARMACY
The Campus Drug Store 
HA. 6300 5200 Forbes St.
A veteran Geneva College five 
played host to Tech Saturday night 
and spoiled the Tartan opener to the 
tune of 56-31. The Covenanters scor
ed first and stayed well out in front 
during the entire ball game.
With ambidextrous Elmer Lipp, 
Podbielski, and McComb showing 
the way, the Co vies jumped to a 
16-7 lead in the first quarter. Coach 
Max Hannums son, Gene, and Lew 
Heiles registered Techs two lone 
field goals in this period. As Lipp 
continued to dump them in with 
either hand, Geneva stretched its 
lead to 28-16 at half-time.
In the third canto it looked like 
Tech might be back in the ball game 
for a while. But McDonald sparked 
a Geneva rally and even though the 
Tartans scored 12 points they were 
still behind 43-28 going into the 
final period. Techs short-lived rally 
was led by Gene Hannum and Stan 
Kohn who between them accounted 
for 11 of the 12 points we scored. 
Geneva began pulling away in the 
final stanza and outscored the Tar
tans 13-3.
The game proved to be quite 
rough at times especially in the last 
half when on various occasions both 
teams were climbing over each oth
er in quest of the ball. The referees 
called numerous fouls the majority 
of which were on Tech. Many of the 
referees decisions were lustily boo
ed by the Tech supporters. Gene 
Hannum was the games high scorer 
with 7 field goals and 5 fouls for 
a total of 19 points. Lipp, Podbielski, 
and McDonald led the Geneva scor
ing with 16, 15 and 14 points respec
tively.
Geneva had the advantage of hav
ing last years team returning this 
year. Our boys were playing their 
first game together and although 
they played a fine game, it was ap
parent that they will improve as 
they become more accustomed to 
playing together. It is your report
ers opinion that when our boys get 
a few more games under their belts 
they will not have to look up to any 
team on their schedule, including 
Geneva.
The game was thoroughly enjoyed 
by approximately 1,800 fans. Techs 
cheerleaders made the trip, and led 
a flock of faithful Tech students who 
had chartered a bus for transporta
tion, through numerous cheers. Or
chids to the cheerleaders and the 
students for their faithful support.
The Tartans open their home sea
son this Thursday against Juniata 
in the gym. Lets have the whole 
student body on hand to cheer our 
team to victory on their first home 
appearance. As is noted on the first 
page there is to be a pep rally to be 
held on Tuesday to spur the team 
on to a victory Wednesday. Since 
there was no football team this year 
and basketball is the only major 
sport it would be well if the students 
would get behind the team and 
spark it on to a successful season. 
A loss at the start of the season is no
indication of the potentialities of a 
team. Come out and cheer for the 
team, and show the fellows that 
there is no lack of interest on the 
Tech campus.
Lineups of the teams
Carnegie Tech F.G. F. Tot.
Harmouth f .................. 0 0 0
Hannum f ..................... 7 5 19
Kuzma c ....................... 1 1 3
Kohn g........................... 2 1 5
Geiles g ......................... 1 0 2
Chetlin f ....................... 0 0 0
Jewell g......................... 1 0 2
Butler g......................... 0 0 0
Totals ...................... 12 7 31
Geneva F.G. F. Tot.
McComb f ................... 2 0 5
Podbielski f ................. 5 5 15
McDonald c ................. 7 0 14
Lipp g .......................... 7 2 16
Wiessen g ..................... 1 1 3
Fabian f......................... 0 0 0
Colainceco f ............... 1 0 2
Ross c..............................0 1 1
Hmiel c ........................0 0 0
Firestone g .....................0 1 1
Bennett g ..................... 0 0 0
Morrow g ..................... 0 0 0
Totals ...................... 23 10 56
Swimming Team 
Needs More Men
Coach Risedorphs natators, de
spite recent improvement, are still 
some distance from the champion
ship form which they will need 
throughout the coming season. With 
four meets already scheduled for 
January or February the boys are 
going to have to do some real work 
if they expect to make a good show
ing. There is a definite shortage of 
divers and backstrokers, which will 
have to be met with material re
cruited from this plea to all who 
think they may have talent.
The lack of experienced men at 
the beginning of the season (Bob 
Straka and Ed Pearlstein, both 
breaststroke artists, are the only 
hold-overs from last year) and some 
slackening on the part of a number 
of the boys have not been exactly 
beneficial to the squad.
THE MOST HONORED 
WATCH ON THE
CAMPUS
C. S. EDMAN

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1945
P&D Lisbeth Betty Kephart 
Relates Wartime Experiences
(In which the End Man plagiar
izes Willie the Shake and makes the 
motto of this column, This is a tale 
told by an idiot, signifying noth
ing.)
Pittsburgh Round-Up: Hockey at 
the Gardens: Hershey vs Pitts
burgh, November 28; New Haven vs 
Pittsburgh, December 1 . . . Hand 
in Glove continues at the Play
house December 1 . . . Dark of the 
Moon will play at the Nixon New 
Years week ... A Song to Re
member is at the Art Cinema . . . 
Flower show at Phipps Conserva
tory ... ^
Four Burps to the Breeze Depart
ment: Burp One is for the drinking 
glasses, in Skibo, which bear a lip
sticks traces. Burp Two is direct
ed towards those disagreeable li
brarians at the Carnegie Library 
all of whom probably should have 
stayed in bed. Burp Three is for the 
peAon who sat beside me at the 
Ballet and kept asking his compan
ion, Why is he (Eglevsky) waving 
his arms around like that? He 
should live so long. Burp Four is 
for Thistle Hall  in all its fallen 
plaster glory.
Four Shouts to the Wind Depart
ment: Shout One is for the movie 
Mildred Pierce downtown and for 
Juan Crawford. Shout Two is for 
the number of fraternity-sororitydnrmitory parties for the veterans. 
Shout Three is for Fancy Free 
which is still tops in our list of mod
ern ballets. Shout Four is directed 
towards the Administration (WE 
should live so long!) for realizing 
that we do need a canteen and doing 
something about it! Shout Five is 
for Paul Robesons terrific concert 
on Saturday night.
This We Love Department: The 
name of the old Soc Rel book which 
fits some of the Enginqueers so per
fectly: Intellectual Tools! . . . 
the cartoon on Page 32 in the No
vember 17th New Yorker; in fact
Social Events Planned 
For Remainder of Year
For all those interested in sched
uling a dance, hustling a date, or 
planning a vacation, here is a cal
endar of proposed social events at 
Tech for the rest of the year: 
December 14Snow Ball (semi-formal).
December 15  Stag Dance after 
Penn State game.
January 11I. F. (semi-formal). 
January 12Stag Dance afterW.&J. 
game.
February 9Stag Mixer after Gene
va game.
February 15I nter Honorary 
Dance.
February 22Frosh Mixer Stag. 
February 23Mortar Board Dance. 
March 2Stag Dance after Case 
ganiG.
9Stag Dance after West 
inia game.
March 16Cwens Soph Hop.
March 23Arts Ball.
March 30Inter-Honorary Bazaar. 
April 13Tec-Vets Easter Party. 
April 27Greek Sing and Swing 
(closed).
May 3 and 4Spring Carnival.
Mari
Vi
by Casey Stine
any cartoon in the New Yorker; in 
fact anything in the New Yorker 
. . . the new ballet, by Jerome 
Robbins, Interplay . . . Lauren 
Bacall in Confidential Agent . . . 
the insipidness of Weekend at the 
Waldorf which was so, so insipid 
that it was rather delightful  in an 
insipid sort of way . . . the new 
political novel Days and Nights 
by Konstantine Simonov  a simple 
story about simple people and sim
ply wonderful . . . Luba (Thats 
Russian for Lillian, stupid!) the 
waitress at Kahns, who is one of 
the finest people weve ever met 
. . . Elsie Janis singing Its Been 
A Long, Long Time on the twohour Thanksgiving program . . . 
the painting of President Truman 
in last weeks Life . . . the new 
exhibition at Outlines Gallery.
Thinks To Do When You Feel 
Like Throwing In The Sponge And 
If Youre Like Me, Its Every Hour 
On The Hour Department: Listen to 
the Victor Album of Sylvia and 
Le Source by Delibes . . . Get 
Joan Thomas to sing you The 
House of the Rising Sun . . . Re
flect upon the Beau Arts Ball in 
March and the Spring Carnival 
(with Rye and 7-Up instead of 
Scotch and Soda.) coming up in 
May . . . Twenty-seven more shop
ping days til Christmas! !!!!'! . . .
Things That Tickle Me Probably 
Much More Than They Will You 
But We Shall See What We Shall 
See Department: During the war, 
when college courses were abbre
viated, a Princeton professor report
ed a serious incident on the Nassau 
campus. It appears that a student 
left the room to go to the washroom, 
and missed his entire sophomore 
year. Vincent Sheean wrote; In 
Southern Italy, an American flier 
won a coveted Free French decora
tion, but was so ugly they couldnt 
find a French general who was willContinued on page 8
On Techs campus this year, grac
ing the halls of the Fine Arts Col
lege, we have a new co-ed with a 
fascinating past. The P. & D. De
partment may claim Lisbeth Kep
hart, but she spends most of her
free time in Skibo eating pints and 
pints of ice-cream. Betty is making 
up for the three years she was in
terned in Santo Tomas, the Japan
ese internment camp in the Philip
pines.
Bettys father, Edward E. Kep
hart, manager of the U. S. Steel 
Corporation in Manila, took his wife 
and four daughters to the Philip
pines in 1940. Then came the Jap
anese sneak-attack on Pearl Har
bor which destroyed many of our 
supply ships, leaving the Americans 
in the Philippines desperate for sup
plies with no way of receiving them. 
General MacArthur finally was 
forced to surrender the Philippines 
to the Japanese. Soon after the Japs 
took over the islands, all of the 
Americans were interned in the old 
University of Santo Tomas, and the 
Kepharts were no exception.
A sketch of the situation in Bettys 
own words is as follows: At first, 
conditions were not so bad, for we 
received aid from the Philippine 
Red Cross. But later on, when out
side food-supplies stopped coming 
in, our diet consisted mainly of rice 
gruel, telerum soup, and soya bean 
soup, and all that I could think 
about was ice cream. Many of our 
men developed tuberculosis due to 
malnutrition because they gave 
their food rations to their children 
when they possibly could. Every 
able-bodied man, woman, and child 
had daily duties to perform, for we 
were permitted self-organization 
provided that we caused the Japan
ese no trouble. We all got busy, and 
in no time at all we had a regular 
little city. College classes were or
ganized, and I had a year and a half 
of college work completed before 
our liberation. Ill never forget that 
day of freedom as long as I live. 
It was the night of February 3, 1945, 
people were screaming with joy, I 
ran out to see the American Army 
entering the gates of our camp, it 
was the first time that I had ever 
seen a G. I. and as suddenly as the 
Americans entered our camp I begen to cry and sob uncontrolably
 Oh, God, it was marvelous.
Bettys spirit during her intern
ment remained undaunted. She 
worked in the hospital wards every 
day besides going to classes; she was 
a bulwark to her parents, caring 
for her younger sisters, endeavoring 
to keep up their morale. Her faith 
in the realization of a V-J Day never 
wavered. In Betty, we see the slime 
courageous American spirit that 
won our final victories. She held fast 
to her belief in God and worked un
til she was free to return to the 
United States once more. Tech sa
lutes you, Betty Kephart.
Skibo Scraps
Danny Franks was persuaded to 
leave his beloved camera behind for 
once as he dated Joan Braunston 
last Friday. . . . Ben Schwartz beat
ing up little girls in the Tartan 
office (ouch) . . . Tis rumored that 
Casey Stine will start a coke con
cession after last Monday . . . The 
Continued on page 8
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4. 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
3Fhe dTacnecjie plaid
Mr. Siegfred Speaks 
At Pi Delta Epsilon 
Publications Dinner
The Pi Delta Epsilon held its an
nual banquet for the members of 
the staffs who edit the publications 
on Techs campus. This organization 
is a national, honorary, collegiate, 
journalism fraternity catering to the 
undergraduate worker on college 
publications. Among its more prom
inent members are Lowell Thomas 
and William L. Shirer.
The dinner was on November 29 
at the Royal York and consisted of 
cream of tomato soup, a lettuce and 
tomato salad, mashed potatoes, fresh 
peas, turkey, dressing, rolls and but
ter, orange sherbet and coffee.
Adelaine Herlick, vice president 
of Pi Delta Epsilon, acted as toastmistress for the evening. The main 
speaker was Mr. L. B. Siegfred who 
was Managing Editor of Advertis
ing and Selling, a trade journal of 
national publication. He was for
merly of Syracuse University where 
he had charge of graphic arts, pub
lic relations and student publica
tions. At present Mr. Siegfred heads 
the Printing Department here at 
C.I.T., having come to the campus 
last September. His constructive 
speech stressed advertising as a 
point for improvement in campus 
publications. Mr. Siegfred gave sug
gestions whereby the general make
up and format of the Tartan and 
Plaid could be improved by using a 
5-column arrangement instead of 
the present 4-column one. On the 
whole his speech was augmented by 
his informal manner and humorous 
injections. At the close of his speech, 
Mr. Siegfred invited questions for 
discussion which came thick and 
fast.
The evening was an enjoyable 
one and many ideas** were brought 
to light providing thought for the 
improvement of campus publica
tions.
Jdetieb to. the. Cdito^i
Continuing the discourse concern
ing the plight of the evening stu
dent who successfully filtered 
through one of Carnegie Techs nu
merous Evening School Courses 
only to find out that information was 
lacking on numerous aspects of the 
campus the Plaid is attempting to 
fill this gap by presenting data and 
suggestions in this column.
It has been pointed out that in 
normal years the evening students 
were presented each year with a 
complete handbook containing full 
information on pertinent items. This 
medium of presenting data has been 
curtailed because of shortages of one 
type or another and in its place an 
abridged booklet was distributed.
Now, if the students will take this 
booklet and glance through its pages 
they can notice a few items such as, 
the greetings of the president of 
Council; Academic Calendar; Even
ing School Social Calendar; Roster 
of Officers; Financial Report; Data 
on Insignia and Awards, and the 
Carnegie Plaid. These items should 
motivate the readers to seek more 
information and herein lies much of
Attention all boys! Heres a $64.00 
question you shouldnt have much 
difficulty answering, for its identi
fying a pretty little Miss on campus.
She has brown hair, blue eyes, is 
5 feet 5V2 inches tall, and weighs 
112 pounds. As an additional little 
hint, she is all of nineteen years of 
age.
Our student hails from Forest 
Hills, and is a graduate of Wilkinsburgh High School, class of Spring 
44. She is now employed at the Lee 
Smith Dental Manufacturing Com
pany during the day, and at
tends her Psychology class regularly 
every Friday evening in IH 251.
When it comes to sports, horse
back riding heads the list, with foot
ball and basketball running a close 
second. She has a great desire to 
learn how to swim. Do we hear any 
offers? And what can be more con
venient than a swimming pool right 
here on campus for every students 
use Wednesday evening!
During her spare time, one can 
usually find her lounging around 
the house (clad in manish clothes) 
working at her hobby, which is short 
story writing. When asked about her 
favorite movie actor, there was a 
long sigh, and in a low whisper came 
the nameVan Johnson.
Were sure that many of you have 
guessed her name, but for those who 
havent as yet had the pleasure of 
meeting her, we wont hold you in 
suspense any longer. She is none 
other than Ruth Scott. Sorry we 
cant pay you the $64.00, but those 
of you who know her are awarded 
by her very pleasing personality.
Ruth is attending Carnegie Tech 
for the first time this semester and 
likes it very much. Glad to have you 
with us Ruth, and hope you stay for 
a long time.
the success of the extra curricular 
activities on the evening campus.
The distribution of the Tartan, 
the medium through which the 
Plaid news is circulated to the even
ing students is of prime importance. 
All evening students should receive 
a copy of the Tartan-Plaid and read 
it. One might hear the question ask
ed how can I obtain one? Well, for 
the convenience of the evening stu
dents newspaper stands have been 
placed throughout the corridors of 
the various buildings. Another place 
is the Evening School Office located 
on the second floor of Administra
tion Hall. A supply is always on 
hand there. Go to these stands or the 
office and take a copy. Then read 
and become acquainted with even
ing campus life. Andby the way 
the newspaper you are reading is 
made up and edited by students each 
week. How about coming out on 
Friday evening to the Publications 
Rooms, third floor of the Carnegie 
Union and give a hand to the group 
of council members and workers 
who are doing the job. Your efforts 
will be appreciated and incidentally 
you will have started upon your 
road towards earning points for the 
Council Insignia Award.
Evening Inter-Frat 
Dance Will Be Held 
At Thistle Hall
The Inter - Fraternity, Evening 
Student Council Christmas Dinner 
Dance has been changed to a Christ
mas Dance without the dinner. To 
go into the particulars as to why this 
affair has been changed to just a 
dance would only be repeating pre
vious woes. Therefore, we feel we 
have the next best thing to offer; 
and that is, a dance at Thistle Hall 
with all the trimmings: crystal ball, 
big band and all.
The dance is to be held on Sat
urday, December 22, 1945. Clyde 
Carrolls Orchestra is going to play 
for the affair. This orchestra is one 
of Pittsburghs up - and - coming 
young bands. So you see, all we 
need now is the support of you stu
dents to make this affair reminiscent 
of dances that Tech had back in the 
good, old days. For further particu
lars in regard to this dance, follow 
the PLAID.
Evening Students Eligible 
For Concert Rebates
It may not be generally known by 
the evening students that the}' can 
secure student rates for some of 
the concerts given in Pittsburgh 
during the year. Our student body 
is included in the student group 
and these rates therefore do apply 
to all students at Carnegie Tech.
There is a regular form to be fill
ed out to identify the student ap
plying for the reduction and this 
form may be secured at the Evening 
School Office, 255 - C  Industries 
Hall. Dalziel McKelway will be glad 
to assit any evening student inter
ested in obtaining the identification 
card. 
Changes For Final Exams 
And Registration Announced
Word has been received from the 
Registrars Office that a few changes 
have been made in the Evening 
School Academic Calendar as a re
sult of the increase in enrollment 
this semester over the anticipated 
figure. To take care of the addi
tional students, Second Semester 
Registration will be held two 
nights, Wednesday, January 30 and 
Thursday, January 31, instead of the 
one night originally scheduled, 
January 30. Class will begin Fri
day, February 1, instead of Janu
ary 31.
Final examinations will be from 
Tuesday, January 22 to Monday, 
January 28, inclusive, instead of 
January 23 to January 29.
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Ruth McGraw
News Editor
Frank Mihelich 
Associate Editors
Virginia Ehni, Betty Ashcraft 
Page edited by Evening School Students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. All views or 
opinions expressed in editorial column are not 
necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of 
the Day School Staff.
Staff
Olive Baumgardner 
Martha Borkovich 
Betty Hopkins 
Florence Kelly 
Mary Kolson 
Irene Koemer 
Emma Jean Lewis 
Nancy E. Lewis 
Joy A. Ridgeway
The usual question on Friday 
night . . . Who is going to write 
the Eight Ball? . . . looks like this 
lass got the job . . . it is an easy 
task when the dirt rolls in as easily 
as it did tonight . . . guess we 
should have more of these banquets 
as source of gossip . . . Professor 
Saylor had an enjoyable evening 
recently teaching the Pumps class. 
John Scarr was unfortunately (?) 
the only absent member from that 
delightful session . . . It is reported 
that one of the Engineering stu
dents, who, in a vindictive mood, 
brought in a light meter to check the 
light falling on his slide rule in a 
Machinery Hall classroom, swears 
that there was one to six footcandles 
light intensity in the room. The 
electric utilities declare that if there 
are no pretty girls on whom to ease 
the eyestrain, the intensity should 
be at least thirty footcandles . . . 
One of the girls at the Assembly 
Party two weeks ago said that she 
couldnt wait until Christmas ar
rived as she was looking forward to 
seeing Santa Claus. The manpower 
shortage couldnt be that badthey 
keep telling me . . . The scribes 
dinner at the Royal York the other 
night was a notable event. Besides 
a good dinner, there was a pleasing 
group of students present. Did any
one notice that gleam in Ches eye 
as the evening wore on? . . . too 
many milkshakes! . . . With all 
those lovely girls in the Introduc
tory Psychology class, one wonders 
why that class is so popular with 
the female sex. Perhaps the desire to 
practice some of the Psychology on 
the poor defenseless male homo 
sapiens is a motivating factor in 
their selection of that study. But 
lets not indulge in any ulterior rea
soning and leave that to the psychol
ogy student . . . Wanted: one new 
typewriter ribbon or better still 
A new typewriter ... We under
stand, now, why Frank used to say 
he had to go home to take care of 
his little sister . . . There are others 
who would like that idea, too . . . 
Gee, better quit before I overflow 
the space . . . Whoops. Now the 
Editor tells me that I need at least 
four more inches of gossip. And I 
was bragging about how easy it 
was to write this column. Well 
blame it on the regularshall we 
say jerkwho writes this bloomin 
column. He didnt show up tonight. 
Someone said he was out hunting 
deer or is that spelled dear? . . . 
Speaking of people who didnt show 
up, Arlene McMurray, Olive Baum
gardner and Ginny Ehni also ran 
out on us. They went to a dance at 
the William Penn. Hope they have 
a good time while we are sitting 
here sweating this out . . . We 
also miss Mary Kolson, for she has 
one of those pleasing smiles that 
brighten a hectic place. Well Im fin
ished, Editor, dear.
Arlene McMurray 
Edw. E. McDonald 
Ann Rawlings 
Joseph M. Rymar 
Anne Sheck 
Dorothy Shields 
Fred L. Vichich 
Cecille Zellner 
Jaek Griffin

---------------------------------------------------

8_____________________________________~ ____________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN____________________________TUESDAY, DECEMBER 4, 1945
Skibo Scraps ...
Continued from page 6 
dance at Seton Hall seems to have 
created many a potential romance 
at the TX House; just ask Tom
Editorial . . .
Continued from page 2 
doing he receives some benefit. 
Whether this is merely satisfaction, 
monetary reward, or glory, he still 
gets something. Also, when the 
question arises of equal reward from 
unequal effort, a person will logi
cally choose the activity with the 
least required effort. So the activity 
which requires greater work must 
either lessen that amount of work 
without changing other standards 
(a physical impossibility) or else 
make the reward sufficiently great
er.
At present, an editorial position 
demands much in the way of time 
and effort, more than most other 
activities. In this school, those who 
do journalistic work are not inter
ested in journalism as a career, and 
are motivated by other reasons. At 
present those who can show some 
financial need may get scholarships. 
These are awarded on the basis that 
activities are a necessary part of a 
students education, and that no 
student should be prevented from 
working on activities. This is an ex
cellent idea, and should be retained, 
but it is not the complete answer. 
It does not produce everything 
which is desirable, namely helping 
a paper to achieve the maximum in 
standards. Many students are still 
barred from receiving scholarships, 
and so an unequal incentive is giv
en those eligible. Competition is 
not aroused among the largest num
ber of students, and as a result, the 
maximum is not reached.
A plan whereby salaries are given 
alone would be equally as bad. On
ly a few at the top could ever hope 
to get a salary, and those who need 
the help could not afford to take 
the chance. But among those who do 
work, the competition is very keen, 
and the quality the highest. During 
the period in which salaries were 
given, the Tartan won four AllAmerican awards in six years, in 
competition with schools from all 
over the country.
Now why cannot these two plans 
be combined? The result would 
make for the best interest of the 
individual, the publication, and the 
school. Scholarships would be given 
for those who have enough activi
ties and can show some need, but 
who are not at the top, while for 
everyone there is the chance that 
merit will be rewarded, and not 
ignored. Lets make the publications 
and the school the best! AEB
Barnhart or Miles Brunt ... Be 
on the look-out for the SAEs publi
cation, The Pennsylvania Phindings. 
. . . Louise Koenig and Tom Lakowski having a gay time at the 
University Club Saturday . . . Miss 
Kritchlow would make a good pin
up girl according to the TXs. . . . 
Bob Marcus celebrating his return 
from overseas by throwing a big 
cocktail party . . . Norma Stull and 
Kenn Whitmore (sans moustache) 
doing fine at the Bety party . . . 
Jo Svirman and Lil Wanger both 
double dating a mutual friend  
Oh! Ed! . . . Hay Smith of the 
Navy dropping in for a short visit 
on his way to Washington . . . 
Howard Robie also of the Navy, 
seen last week-end . . . Among the 
Delts crowding the Theta initiation: 
Norm Zuerner, Abe Hopper, Ed 
Thompson, Bob Kerr, Vic Elliott, and 
Harry Hamilton . . . Don Dunbar 
doing card tricks that wouldnt work 
while his date sat in the corner read
ing Womans Home Companion . . . 
Loads of sympathy to Bob Skinkle, 
in hospital for the remainder of the
semester with pneumonia. Pete Pri
eto has taken over for the SAEs 
. . . Add to the list of con
verts to the Demon Bridge: Sam 
Moses . . . Congratulations will 
soon be due; Arnold Horelick and 
family are definitely infanticipating 
. . . Herb Whitman, Jane Johns, 
and Bill Hagmeier went up to the 
drug store for some cigars, and 
when they came back, Jane was the 
only one without that slightly 
green cast . . . Look for a visit 
from Navy man Ken Bradway next 
week . . . Add to list of pleasing 
couples: Les Engle and Nat Wil
liams . . . Success of the year as 
far as beer parties are concerned 
was that of the Tau Delts last Sat
urday, with the Betas and Beta 
Sigs aiding in the merry making be
fore leaving to serenade the dorms 
. . . Jackie Alexander dating a Pitt 
man  Bob Schaffer . . . Sema
Moskovitz and her sailor, Marty, 
looking at each other strangely . . . 
Ben Schwartz and Celeste Silberstein at Barbara Schlessingers par
ty last Friday night.
End Man...
Continued from page 6 
ing to kiss him. Wit-of-the-Week: 
Two BMOCs here at Tech were 
talking (thats a story in itself) and 
the one BMOC asked the other, 
How was the burlesque show? and 
the other answered, Abdominal. 
Gertrude Stein and Mortimer Adler 
got into a terrific battle, one eve
ning, about Miss Steins amazing 
rhetoric. Finally, after a constant 
flow of battling for one half hour, 
Anna Toklas remarked, Dear me, 
Gertrude is saying some things to
night that she wont understand her
self for six months.
Closing Up Shop Department; 
And with that, we fold our Corona, 
and steal quietly away from the 
Tartan office.
Notice
Please turn in all Thistle articles 
immediately! No articles will be ac
cepted after December 14. Send 
them addressed to the Thistle thru 
inner-school mail.
? ??WITH THE THREE FIRSTS 
IN SMOKING PLEASURE
Chesterfield's gay Christmas 
carton is a beauty..*.just the thing 
to say Merry Christmas to your
COOLER S/lfOKIAfG c,assmates and to top off thebundles for those at home.
ALWAYS M/DER 
SETTER TASU/VG
Succccding generations of 
many of Pittsburghs pioneer 
families open an account at 
the Mellon National Bank as 
a matter of family tradition 
as soon as they come of age.
MELLON 
NATIONAL BANK
MEM FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION
And theres nothing finer than what's inside, 
for Chesterfield's Right Combination . . .World's Best 
Tobaccos gives you all the benefits of smoking pleasure.
Theyre givable, acceptable and enjoyable
