(Jaran
Vol. VIII. No. 20 Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaFebruary 18, 1914
BETHANY BEATEN THREE (AMES i. M. (. A, MEET MUSKAl (LUBS
III (LOSE mi THIS WEEK SATURDAY NIGHE ON TRIP
VARSITY WINS ON FIELD 
GOAL.
In a see-saw game, in which each 
team held a slight lead for short peri
ods, Carnegie Tech clinched the re
sult with a field goal in the last few 
minutes, winning from Bethany Col
lege on the latters floor on February
13.
The Carnegie players were delayed 
by the snow storm and did not arrive 
in Bethany until 8:30. They went di
rectly from the train to the floor and 
thawed out with a short preliminary 
practice. The storm caused delay on 
the return trip, and the party did not 
arrive home until dawn was breaking.
Capt. Criswell celebrated his return 
to the team by putting up a sensa
tional game. He drove his men at top 
speed and helped settle the result by 
caging the ball from four difficult 
chances. Colvin showed an improve
ment in form, and, in the second half, 
had everything coming his way. The 
guards fed the ball to the forwards 
better and showed some improvement 
in offensive play.
Rodgers starred for Bethany, doing 
most of the scoring.
The lineup:
Carnegie Tech27. Bethany25.
Tumpsane ............F ....................Rodgers
Criswell ................F ................McMullen
Colvin ....................G .....................Wilkins
Hines ......................C .....................Abrams
Douthett ...............G .........................Eneix
SubstitutionsSmith for Eneix;
Eneix for Abrams.
Field GoalsTumpane 3, Criswell 4, 
Colvin 5, Rodgers 7, McMullen 3, 
Smith.
Foul GoalsColvin 3 out of 3; Rod
gers, 3 out of 9.
RefereeWhite.
Scoring of Players.
Fid FI 
Gms Gls Gls Pts
Tumpane ........................8 30 1 61
Criswell ..........................3 7 3 17
Colvin .............................8 15 61 91
Douthett ........................8 8 0 16
Hines ..............................8 7 0 14
Levy .................................5 3 0 6
Henning ........................5 0 0 0
Totals ..........................8 70 65 205
GROVE CITY AT FIELD HOUSE 
TONIGHT.
TECH HAS ENTERED 
TEAM.
The Varsity will have its hands full 
this week in disposing of Grove City, 
Allegheny and Pitt on three succes
sive evenings. Starting tonight, the 
first mentioned school will be Techs 
opponent at the Field House. After 
an absence of two weeks and the splen
did victory against Bethany, the team 
deserves a rousing welcome from the 
students. Our chances were material
ly improved by the return of Capt. 
Criswell. His presence seemed to in
still confidence in the other players 
who displayed real fighting spirit 
against the West Virginians last Fri
day. The effect on Colvin was espe
cially noticeable. He romped all over 
the floor and caged five goals from dif
ficult angles. This evenings contest 
will start promptly at 8:15 oclock.
Unfortunately the two hardest 
games of the season are scheduled to
gether. Allegheny always had, has, 
and probably will have good basket
ball teams. It particularly dislikes 
losing on its own floor, so much so 
that such a disaster has occurred only 
twice in the past ten years. It will 
strenuously resent an attempt on 
Techs part to repeat the unusual per
formance when the two teams meet 
tomorrow night at Meadville. The fol
lowing evening the return engagement 
with Pitt will take place in Trees Gym
nasium. A large delegation of Pitt 
rooters accompanied their teams to the 
first game played on our floor and simi
lar action on the part of Tech students 
is expected Saturday when we shall 
endeavor to even up the series and 
atone for the defeat earlier in the seaAs far as Tech is concerned, the 1914 
indoor track season will be opened 
Saturday evening with the Y. M. C. A. 
meet at Duquesne Gardens. Last year 
we scored a larger number of points 
than any other school and will en
deavor to do the same thing again. 
But the task will be more difficult for 
in addition to Pitt and W. & J. Penn 
State, who did not compete a year ago, 
will also be represented. The special 
attraction of the evening will be the 
two mile relay race between Yale and 
Princeton.
Owing to the cold weather, only 
light practices have been held and the 
condition of the Plaid team is uncer
tain. Some of the men have been 
training for several weeks while others 
have just begun. The track prospects 
were brightened by the addition to the 
squad of C. H. Meredith, a former 
Central High School runner, who has 
' entered the Design School. He is a 
good quarter miler and should 
strengthen the relay team. Besides 
him, Meninan and Dunseith have both 
shown great improvement in the 440 
yard dash and should make good show
ings in either the relay or open race. 
Haselton, who will run for the first 
time since the cross-country meet last 
fall, is entered in the two mile race, 
which he is picked to win. The list
of Tech entries are as follows:
60-yard dashKirk, Hemman.
Quarter mile runMeninan, Dun
seith, Meredith.
Half mile runFinley.
Two mile runHaselton, Campbell.
High jumpKing, Vierheller.
One mile relayMeninan, Dunseith, 
Mederith, Kirk, Hemman, Rauh.
INTER-SCHOOL TRACK MEET.
A new feature will be introduced 
during the indoor track season this 
year with the holding of an inter
school meet at the Field House on 
Saturday, February 28th. The annual 
meet in the spring is always produc
tive of keen competition among the 
participants and of a great deal of 
interest among the student body. The 
coming meet will furthermore serve 
to give the coach an opportunity to 
size up the track material in school. 
It cannot strictly be termed an indoor 
meet for more than half of the events 
will be run outdoors on the board 
track. These will consist of a 20-yard
dash, shot put, pole vault, high jump, 
broad jump, 220 yard and 440 yard 
dashes, half mile, mile and two mile 
runs and the mile relay race.
All entries must be handed in not 
later than Thursday afternoon, Feb
ruary 26th, to the captains of the re
spective school teams. They are: Clair, 
Haselton, and Dunseith of the Science, 
Design and Industry School in the 
order named. If you entertain 
any track ambitions, regardless of 
your ability, you should enter this 
meet. Perhaps you can do just a little 
better than someone else. If they prove 
a success, the indoor inter-school 
games will become an annual affair.
CONCERTS AT ERIE AND 
WARREN, PA.
The Glee and Mandolin Clubs ap
peared for the first time in Erie and 
Warren on Wednesday and Thursday 
of last week.
At the High School in Erie over 
1000 people heard the Clubs while the 
Arlington Opera House in Warren 
was taxed to capacity. Both audi
ences were of an appreciative nature 
and forced the Clubs, by their con
tinued applause to use all their en
core numbers.
The Seniors of the two high schools 
entertained the members of the Clubs 
at their respective homes during the 
short stay and from reports of the 
men, they were very hospitable.
The Clubs left Pittsburgh Wednes
day at 1:35 p. m.; arrived in Erie at 
6:00 and were met by a delegation of 
High School Seniors. The concert 
was given at 8:30 p. m. and was over 
at 11:00 p. m. Thursday morning was 
spent in inspecting the plant of the 
General Electric, Erie City Iron 
Works and Ball Engine Works. The 
Clubs left for Warren at 1:00 p. m., 
and arrived at 3:50 p. m. Ample time 
was afforded to meet the Senior class 
before the concert, so the men were 
whisked away for supper and returned 
at 8:00 p. m. to the Opera House. Af
ter the concert the most enjoyable 
part of the trip for all was the dance 
given in honor of the class, by the 
Seniors, at the Womens Club. This 
was relished by the men as the social 
functions for Tech men are few and 
far between, and they surely did jus
tice to that party. Next morning, 
Friday, at 9:50, the Clubs started for 
home, but were held up three hours 
in Oil City. Many of the men went 
to the homes of two of the Clubs ten
ors from that cityMr. McNulty and 
Mr. Gardiner. Here they were enter
tained till train time. The Club 
reached Pittsburgh at 8:00 p. m.
Extreme cold marred the trip and 
gave some of the fellows cauliflower 
ears. The thermometer registered 
sixteen degrees below in Warren.
The advantage gained in these two 
concerts are mmy, and helped materi
ally toward the finished Club that will 
appear at the home concert March 
13th in Carnegie Music Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

2
hp ariatt
Published weekly by Undergradu
ates of the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS MAN
AGER; all articles should be sent to 
?.he EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.50. 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
Chas. E. Gilson, 14..Editor-in-Chief
G. Guy Kelcey, 14........Business Mgr.
W. H. Searight, 16.. Managing Editor
C. B. Kline.....................Athletic Editor
Ruth Gubtil, 14...M. M. C. S. Editor
A. H. McGill, 14...........Science Editor
Carl C. Manchester, 16.Design Editor
J. M. Parke, '14___Industries Editor
Wm. M. Sheldon, 15.Exchange Editor
D. L. Mathias, 14.Staff Photographer 
A. Cowan, '15...Asst. Business Mgr.
E. S. Rauh, 15..Asst. Athletic Editor
Harold Knight, 16......................Reporter
P. N. Bossart, 16........................Reporter
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible 
for the editorial policy of this paper; 
the Managing Editor for the news 
items and general make-up.
PITTSBURGH, PA., FEB. 18 , 1914
THE BAND.
We wish to quote from an article 
which recently appeared in the Co
lumbia News, regarding the band at 
Columbia, the difficulties that had to 
ue overcome in starting it, and the 
success which it is attaining.
Largely through the initiative and 
the industry of W. W. Dwyer, 15, bas
ketball guard, a student band has been 
organized to play at athletic contests 
and on other occasions when the stu
dents gather together, and, if possible, 
to accompany some of the teams on 
out-of-town trips. The band is par
ticularly anxious to escort the basket
ball team to Philadelphia this year 
for the annual game with the Univers
ity of Pennsylvania. The band and a 
fife and drum corps, which is an aux
iliary organization, made their first 
appearance at the basketball game 
with Cornell in the Gymnasium. This 
was the first league game of the sea
son. The Varsity defeated last years 
champions by a narrow margin and 
of course the members of the band at
tribute the Blue and White victory to 
its musical efforts. However that 
may be, that victory was responsible 
for Columbias position at the head 
of the basketball league.
In this connection it seems appro
priate to mention two letters which 
appeared in the December 3 issue of 
the Princeton Alumni Weekly under 
the captions, Cheering and Singing at 
Games and WantedA Band. The
writer deplored the fact that the 
Princeton cheering and singing dur
ing the past season have been far be
low the desired standard. He urged 
the formation of a student band to 
correct this defect.
While the necessities at Columbia 
are probably not as great, the cheer
ing and singing at the Stunts last 
Alumni Day being of a quality seldom 
excelled on any college occasion, the 
presence of the band will always pro
vide a welcome stimula.
Few of the members of the Co
lumbia Band had instruments of their 
own, and it is more desirable at any 
rate that the instruments should be
long to the organization in order that 
they may be available from year to 
year. It was therefore necessary to 
raise a considerable sum for the pur
chase of instruments. Mr. Dwyer,
G. H. Higgins, 15, and others of those 
interested in the movement inaugu
rated a Campus campaign for sub
scriptions. Every student contribut
ing at least twenty-five cents was 
given a button to indicate that he had 
already subscribed. In this way 
$325.00 was secured. Between $50.00 
and $70.00 are still needed.
The above statements are especially 
interesting to students at Carnegie. 
Unlike Columbia and Princeton we 
have had a band for some years now, 
our band has always been present at 
football games, and on some occa
sions has accompanied the football 
team on the trips away from town. 
On the other hand, the efforts and 
struggles put forth at Columbia to 
organize a band should be a source of 
inspiration to the members of the, 
band at Carnegie. What we need 
here more than anything else is a 
leader who will take the responsibility 
for the band, who will work with all 
his might -or its success, and who will 
furnish that enthusiasm and inspira
tion to the other memDers which is 
so sadly lacking. Surely in this large 
student body or among the Alumni, 
there is such a man. Let him come 
forth and take up the work; his re
ward will be the gratitude of all true 
Carnegie students, and the full recog
nition of his services by all those con
nected with the schools.
THE MUSICA-, CLUBS.
On their return from last weeks 
trip, we wish to congratulate our Mu
sical Clubs, without doubt the most 
successful in this part of the country. 
In every respect their trip was an un
qualified success. They had large and 
appreciative audiences, and their ef
forts justified the approbation they re
ceived. Above all, they at all times 
acted like gentlemen, true Carnegie 
men in every sense, and ably repre
senting our student body.
We wish it were possible for the 
Clubs to make more extended trips, 
for we believe they would receive the 
same cordial reception in the larger 
cities. Cornell, for example, is famed 
for its Glee Club, and that schools 
reputation has been broadened and 
enhanced in various sections of the
country by the annual trips which 
their Musical Clubs take.
At any rate, we believe our Musical 
Clubs to be one of the most success
ful activities in school, athletic or 
non-athletic. Possibly it would not be 
far wrong to call them the most suc
cessful activity. We know that their 
gentlemanly behaviour does much to 
create a friendly feeling for Carnegie 
wherever they go, and we hope they 
will always attain the success which 
they deserve.
FOREIGN STUDENTS IN 
AMERICA.
An interesting set of figures regard
ing the number of students from for
eign countries attending American 
colleges and universities has been re
cently compiled by a Columbia pro
fessor.
His figures show that in 44 Ameri
can universities, technical schools, and 
colleges, there are 2,084 men regis
tered from foreign countries. This 
list of schools does not include 
schools of medicine, divinity and dent
istry, which would considerably in
crease this number.
Further, he computes the percent
age of men from various continents. 
Thus 42.2 per cent, come from Asia; 
27.4 per cent, from North America; 
19.2 per cent, from Europe, 7 per cent, 
from South America; 2.4 per cent, 
from Australia, and 1.8 per cent, from 
Africa. Of the students from Asia, 
over half come from China, and one 
quarter from Japana truly signifi
cant proportion which shows how 
those Eastern countries are awaken
ing to a realization of their need for 
education. Most of the European stu
dents come from England; Germany 
is next, and then comes Turkey, Rus
sia, France, Norway, Italy, Austria, 
Servia, Greece, Holland and Switzer
land, respectively.
Columbia, where the enrollment is 
183 has the largest number of foreign 
students. Pennsylvania has 180, Cor
nell 151, California 151, Michigan 145, 
Chicago 141, Harvard 137, Illinois 117, 
and Northwestern 103. Yale has 79 
and Princeton 22.
We might add that Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, although not 
mentioned in the compilation above 
referred to, has a total of 40 foreign 
students, thus surpassing Princeton 
in the list.
The engineers of the University of 
Nebraska have nearly completed a 
giant telescope. The barrel of this 
sky-gun is twenty feet long, with 
twelve lenses, and has nearly 1.200 
different parts.
Harvard University has a Cancer 
Commission which is working in con
junction with the Harvard Medical 
School upon experiments with radium 
and its derivatives as a cure for can
cer. The benefits of radium1 treatment 
have been greatly exaggerated. The 
Cancer Commission purposes to find 
out just what radium will do and to 
give the public the unprejudiced re
sults of the experiments.
DIRECTORY
ATHLETTC3.
FootballF. C. McCaughey, Capt.
F. L. Rownd,
5141 Woodland Ave.
BaseballW. K. Hall, Capt.,
W. F. Routh, Mgr.
5437 Aylesboro St.
Basketball
W. T. Criswell, Capt.
W. F. Wright, Mgr.,
311 McKee Place.
TrackE. L. Clair, Capt.
Wm. Miller, Mgr.
Tennis
G. Douthett, Capt.
R. S. Wilson, Mgr.
Students Advertising Bureau
G. G. Kelcey, Mgr.
Room 1, Industries Bldg.,
9167-J Schenley.
SOCIETIES 
Musical Clubs
L. R. Madison, Pres.
N. A. Hollister, Mgr.
5137 Woodlawn Ave. 
SeannachieE. L. Clair, Pres 
Carnegie BandH. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.
Mho ClubW. C. Sontum, Pres. 
Mechanical Club
J. B. Patterson, President. 
White Friars
J. A. Cameron, Pres.
G. W. Gilpin,
5557 Beeler St.
Tech Studio Club
H. B. Pearce, Pres.
T. D. C.
T. A. C.J. B. Hayes, Pres.
C. E. Society
Al. H. Woods, Pres.
Fulcrum Club
H. R. Auerswald, Pres. 
Crucible ClubW. J. Corbett, Pres.
CLUBS AND FRATERNITIES.
Sigma Tau5141 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9167-J.
Sigma Rho3400 Iowa St.
Schenley 9022-J.
Beta Theta Epsilon
5437 Aylesboro Ave. 
Schenley 2508 
Xi Sigma Upsilon
. 311 McKee Place.
Schenley 9253.
Zeta Lambda Epsilon
237 N. Dithridge St.,
9053 Schenley.
Pi Chapter, Theta Xi
3890 Grant Blvd.
Schenley, 9143.
Woodlawn Club
5137 Woodlawn Ave.
Schenley 9020.
Alumni Assn of Applied Science 
and Design
W. H. Rieger, Sec. & Treas., 
Room1 204 Applied Industries Bldg. 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Student Senates
DesignA. H. Neal, Pres. 
IndustriesThomas Fish, Pres. 
Athletic Board of Control
J. J. Doherty, Pres.
A. D. Beeken, Jr., Secy.
C. I. T. Orchestra
G. C. Smith, Pres.
H. E. Gumbart, Mgr.,
310 Oakland Ave.

---------------------------------------------------

5% uiariatt
4 DEANS COLUMN. ?? ?? ?
To the Editor of the Tartan:
The trying period of semester ex
aminations has come and gone, bring
ing as usual the verdict of success to 
some and of failure to others. The 
standard of scholarship required by 
the Faculty is high and must be high 
in order that the Institution may ful
fill its obligation to the individual and 
to the community. That the stand
ard of enforced scholarship is not 
excessive, provided only the student 
has the will to succeed, is proved by 
the, success of a considerable number 
of young men in the face of the most 
adverse circumstances.
But true scholarship is not a mat
ter of passing grades and Faculty re
quirements. It is, of course, neces
sary, if an institution is to certify 
to the completion of a course of study 
and this certificate is to possess any 
value, that a fitting standard of at
tainment be set, below which no 
credit toward the winning of the cer
tificate can be allowed. This stand
ard, however, representing as it does 
the minimum of attainment, can be 
an incentive only to the more indif
ferent or incapable members of the 
class. To the student of exceptional 
ability, it may even prove detrimental 
to true scholarship, for by setting a 
standard of acceptibility considerably 
below' his possibilities, it may tempt 
hm to be content with inferior work. 
Capable of honor scholarship, he may 
be led to be satisfied with passing 
grades. His temptation in this di
rection is strengthened by the heavy 
schedule of studies in a technical 
school. There is so much ground to 
be covered in preparation for the suc
cessful practice of his profession that 
his days are filled with scheduled lec
ture and laboratory periods and his 
nights with study in an attempt mere
ly to keep up with Faculty require
ments. Scholarship for scholarships 
sake under such conditions becomes 
difficult. In this one respect the tech
nical school is at a distinct disadvan
tage as compared with the liberal 
arts college.
There are, moreover, certain influ
ences which tend to lower the valua
tion placed on high scholarship. The 
school life of today is crowded with 
so-called student activities, valuable 
as accessory instruments toward 
the training of students, but 
given an exaggerated import
ance, frequently by college ad
ministrations and students and invari
ably overrated by the press and the 
general public. From the daily pa
pers one would be warranted in infer
ring that colleges are endowed for the 
purpose of maintaining athletic and 
other entertainment organizations and 
that the standing of an institution is 
dependent upon the success of its 
football team. The thoughtful stu
dent knows, of course, that, at the end 
of his four years, this selfsame public 
in the guise of an employer, will be
satisfied with nothing less than the 
best technical training. Nevertheless, 
such constant playing up of what 
should be relatively minor activities 
in the public press undoubtedly has 
great influence in warping the stu
dents judgment as to what is most 
worth while in college life. This ten
dency is strengthened by the fact that 
athletics now practically monopolize 
the field of intercollegiate competi
tion. The scholastic competition of 
fifteen or twenty years ago has al
most gone out of existence. It is for 
this reason I envy the School of Ap
plied Design its opportunity in the 
competitions of the New York So
ciety of Beaux Arts Architects. I 
have hopes that the engineering com
petition established by the Engineers 
Society of Western Pennsylvania will 
prove an equally valuable factor in 
engineering education.
The caricature of the scholar is a 
familiar figure. We see him in the 
cartoon columns of the daily papers, 
in the novel, on the stage. In a re
cent magazine article scholarship has 
been derisively defined to mean find
ing out all there is to know about 
something nobody else cares about 
and then telling it in such a way that 
nobody else can find out. Only very 
occasionally do we find this caricature 
in real lifebut unfortunately we do 
find him often enough to furnish the 
exception that proves the rule. So 
universally is he accepted ^y the gen
eral public as the characteristic type 
of the scholar that a reputation for 
scholarship is usually fatal in deal
ing with so-called practical men. Not 
only is the scholar caricatured as im
practical; he is usually represented as 
deprived by the very fact of his schol
arship of those virile qualities which 
we most admire. This attitude 
toward the scholar is to some extent 
reflected in the opinions of the stu
dent, with a natural result of a lower
ing in his estimate of the value of 
scholarship. He is apt to agree with 
the opinion of the Oxford graduate 
concerning the traditional Oxford 
Our men are not scholars, our schol
ars are not men.
However true this was of the tradi
tional scholar of Oxford, it is not 
true of the scholar of today. If we 
look behind the exaggerations of the 
caricature, we see the man who, by 
laborious plodding and protracted re
search, has laid open the history of 
the peoples of the past for the guid
ance of the civilization of the future. 
We see the man who has made pos
sible our advances in the knowledge 
of the truths of science, and has there
by opened the door for our comforts 
and necessities of today and our re
lief from' the sufferings and discom
forts of yesterday. In repeated in
stances his achievements have been 
accomplished only by a heroism in 
the face of real danger which dwarfs 
the more picturesque exploits of our 
military heroes. Still more often his 
labors have been marked by self de
nial and self sacrificing devotion to 
the cause of truth.
Continued on Page 4
I WAS LUCKY
Declared a young man the other day, as he exhibited to several 
of his friends, the style points of a handsome, comfortable-looking, 
new overcoat he was wearing. I bought this $30.00 coat for 
$12.50 the day before yesterday, and the next day it snowed. I 
had seen it earlier in the season at $30.00; it was just my style, but 
I couldnt spare the thirty at the time.
We knew the young man, and we knew the coat. It had the 
Joseph Horne Co. label of quality sewed conspicuously on the soft 
satin lining of the inside. The young man had bought the coat en
tirely as an investment for next Winter, but we will be greatly sur
prised if he dosent get a lot of stylish service out of it yet this Winter 
and Spring.Lots of Lock Left
Several hundred more young men can still find suits and over
coats to their liking at the rock-bottom prices that prevail at the 
seasons end.
Over (00 of this seasons desirable over
coats, typical young mens coats, that
were $16.00 to $30.00, at $ 1 2*50
Several hundred Young Mens Sharpfitting Suits, many of them of all-theyear weight materials such as many 
custom tailors use. Excellent, hand-tai
lored garments from our regular $20.00
to $35.00 lines, at $15.00
Joseph Horne Co.
The Modern Store
PITTSBURGH
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

4lye Partait
Deans Column
Continued from Page 3.
It is true, of course, that the under
graduate school cannot hope to cre
ate the finished scholar. To produce 
the man who knows all that is known 
in any one department of knowledge 
must be the function of the graduate 
school. In a technical institution, the 
heavy curriculum and the immaturity 
of the student make scholarship of 
this type impossible. This ideal from 
the German University must be modi
fied in order that it be adapted to the 
American college or technical school. 
Bishop Potter has said that the true 
type of scholar is the man who has 
come to see that, in whatever depart
ment of inquiry, it is not so much 
a question of how much learning he is 
possessed of, as, rather, how truly 
anything that he has learned has pos
sessed him. The production of this 
modified type of scholar is entirely 
within the possibilities of the Ameri
can college. The technical school, im
bued as it is with the professional 
spirit, offers a most promising field for 
the realization of this ideal.
What then, may the technical 
school do for its students in the way 
of scholarship? It may give him a 
thorough training in the sciences un
derlying his professional work and 
thereby lay a true foundation for ad
vanced research. It may give him 
something of the methods of scientific 
investigation and thus provide him 
with the tools for such research. It 
may arouse in him a respect for schol
arship which will lead him to regard 
it as foremost in the list of the things 
worth while in school life. It may 
give him a vision of truth, the object
ive of all scholarship, which will fur
nish an educational impulse which will 
be effective after he ftas left the lec
ture room and laboratory. Given this 
impulse the sheepskin 01 the graduate 
will signify not only that he has met 
faculty requirements in the past but 
that he is a candidate for the honors 
of scholarship in the future. This 
diploma becomes a certificate not that 
he has been a student, but that he IS 
a student.
The institution that accomplishes 
this much in the interests of scholar
ship has placed in the hands of the 
student the means to attain personal 
power and has enriched his capacity 
for personal enjoyment through the 
refinement of his personal tastes. But 
it has done more than this. It has 
provided democracy with a most pot
ent factor. The presence of even a 
few men with minds so set toward 
truth that they cannot tolerate any 
sham or bigotry or sophistry, men 
who as a result of this training are in
dependent of the clamor of the rabble 
good or bad, is of incalculable value 
to any community. It was because 
modern scholarship inculcates the 
love of truth that James Bryce de
clared that of all results of democracy, 
the American University offers the 
largest promise for the future.
JOHN H. LEETE.
SEAL HUNTING.
(Continued from last weeks issue).
By John S. Taylor.
Fifty years ago about 500 sailing 
vessels engaged in this business with 
an average crew of 30 men and if 
fortunate to hit the main body of seals, 
a quick return would be made, 3500 
pelts being a good voyage. Each 
hunter would share about 26 or 
$130.00 (as British currency was used 
in those days). After refitting a re
turn trip was permissible and lawful 
with often like success. If seals were 
to be had, little or no sleep would be 
indulged in, until the last pelt was 
stowed beneath the hatches. The 
same rule works today. One pelt on 
board is worth a cargo on the ice. 
About one-third of these vessels 
would be from the Port of St. Johns, 
one-third from the Port of Harbor 
Grace, the remaining one-third would 
be distributed throughout the Island. 
With such a number of ships, large 
and small, to be fitted out with an
chors, chains, grapnel ice saws, gaifs 
and the numerous fittings or forgings, 
below and aloft an idea may be 
gained of the employment this would 
furnish the master smith, who, in turn 
employed journeymen and indentured 
apprentices. The red glare of the 
forges was in evidence during the fall 
and winter months, night and day, 
consequently, tradesmen of a high or
der were produced in this and the fol
lowing trades: shipbuilding, sail mak
ing, block making, tin and copper 
smithing. The nautical instrument 
maker who also adjusted barometers, 
compasses, etc., and lastly the ship 
chandler. The apprentices were a wild 
set of fellows and kept up the reputa
tion of their ancestors in the days of 
the historic London Guilds. Thus it 
may be seen the people of Newfound
land are not all fishermen as many 
fondly imagine, but all can catch game 
fish, using red wool against a fly.
These are termed the Good old 
Days. My mother, now 72 years 
old, has often repeated for my bene
fit, the lengthy legal form she so often 
repeated to the crew when they came 
to sign articles with my grandfather, 
who was a veteran ship master and 
owner. The document in question 
was a statement concerning the duty 
each man was bound to perform, for 
the good of the voyage, and the mas
ters interest; I have often followed 
the course my grandfather had picked 
off on his charts fifty years ago while 
pursuing the elusive seal.
The stout old sailing ships gradually 
gave place to steam and among this 
class we have such renowned names 
as Hope, Protens, Neptuns, Fal
con, Kite, Bear and Terra 
Nova, all mentioned excepting the 
latter, by Greeley in his Handbook 
of Arctic Discoveries. Capt. Dick 
Pike of the Protens under Commo
dore Schley, was one of the heroes 
who rescued the survivors of the Gree
ley expedition in 1881, which sailed in 
search of the Franklin expedition 
only to be reduced to the direst extermities themselves. And so on down 
This is done by shifting the cargo forWE HAVE THE NEW ONES IN SHOES
STOEBENER
Man with the Shoes
6227 Penn Ave. East End. 6222 Frankstown Ave.
City Office East End Office
631 Penn Avenue S. Highland Ave. and Baum StreetOswald Wetne* & Sons Co.
Pittsburgh's Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange, Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Works: Cor. Bryant, St. Clair and Mellon Sts.
A NATIONAL INSTITUTIONBrowning, King & Co*
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS AND HATS FOR MEN BOYS AND CHILDREN
439-441 WOOD STREET
HOTEL SCHENLEY
ROMAN H. HEYN, President THOMAS J. KARAS, Manager
HpHE place where all Entertainments, Banquets and ^ Social Functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology and its Fraternities are being given.
Try our 50c Luncheonthe finest obtainable in 
the City of Pittsburgh, served daily in our Rathskeller.
the list could we tell of many more 
of these old Vikings and their doings. 
Among the grinding, crushing floes, 
as well as in open water, of storms at 
sea, and on the coast. It would not 
be proper at this point to pass by a 
Viking of a younger generation. 
Capt. Bob Bartlett, of North Pole 
fame, who was turned back by Capt. 
Peary in the supreme moment of his 
life, and who is now drifting in the 
Karluk of the Stefansson Expedi
tion, somewhere under the dancing, 
flickering, maddening Aurora Bore
alis.
The steam whaler class originally 
numbering thirty-two ships, has been 
gradually dwindling owing to being 
squeezed in the running ice causing 
leaks which the pumps could not con
trol. Others were forced on the rocks 
by running ice after losing a propel
ler. The Protens, already men
tioned, was lost during an Arctic Ex
ploration Expedition. The Bear 
was sold to the United States Govern
ment for Alaskan service. My old 
ship, the Vanguard, was lost the 
year following my experience by be
ing crushed, owing to the fact of hav
ing lost the propeller, no headway 
could be made through running ice. 
It is not unusual for an engineer to 
attach a new propeller, (an extra one 
being carried), as sometimes the 
blades snap off by coming in contact 
with a piece of ice caught in the shoe.
Continued on Page 5
BRACE BROS. 
LAUNDRY
BENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG 
Bell Phone, Wilkins 23
ENTERPRISE PRESSING COMPANY 
Cleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies, Childrens and 
Household Work.
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
R. E. JACQUES, Teacher
of Dancing and Deportment
COR. CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
PITTSBURGH. PA.
Bell Phone 91 24-R Schenley 
Vice President of the Internatipnal Association 
Masters of Dancing
The upper classmen all patronize us 
Plebes, Come over and get acquainted 
Hair Cutting our specialty 25 Cents
Harry F. Van Curens 
TECH BARBER SHOP
Craig and Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa,
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

artan5
Seal Hunting
Continued from Page 4 
ward while the ship is lying quietly 
between the ice, thus elevating the 
stern. Plank are then used to bridge 
the ice at the stern. It may be ap
propriate to remark here that ice is 
an excellent harbor when not running. 
From personal experience, when we 
were shipping seas and the old vessel 
was dipping her prow into the fore
mast, the captain ran for the field ice 
a few miles distant and soon we were 
as steady as a painted ship upon a 
painted ocean, waiting until the storm 
had spent its fury.
(To be continued)
All rights reserved.
REHEARSAL NOTICES.
Rehearsal C. I. T. Orchestra, Mon
day, February 23, room 104, A. I., at 
5:00.
Full attendance desired Business 
meeting after rehearsal.
REVIEW OF INDUSTRIAL IN
SPECTION TRIPS.
The inspection schedule arranged 
for the Industrial School was of a 
very beneficial nature. The trips in
cluding visits to foundries, machine 
shops, steel mills, warehouses, power 
plants and other manufacturing es
tablishments.
Too much credit cannot be given 
to the firms for the interest shown in 
conducting the students through the 
plant. But the prize goes to Macintosh-Hemphill Company; they fur
nished enough guides so that each 
five or six students had someone to 
explain the many things of interest 
throughout their plant.
At the end of the journey through 
the different shops, all went back to 
the office and from there to the Fort 
Pitt Hotel for luncheon, as their 
guests. The students showed their 
true spirit by singing and cheering 
for each official of the company pres
ent.
at the conclusion of Edmund Breeses 
successful engagement, will appear 
with the Harry Davis Players for three 
weeks, opening on Monday matinee, 
February 23, in a brilliant revival of 
Checkers, to be followed successive
ly by Augustus Thomas great comedy 
success, On the Quiet.
True ValuesB. & B.True Values
THE GRAND.
Society is bound to make much of 
the engagement of Blanche Bates and 
her players in the Grand Opera House 
next week, for society not only dotes 
on this distinguished former Belasco 
star but is much given to the sort of 
high class vaudeville with which Mr. 
Davis has surrounded her. It is a sig
nally important event of the tropartite sort, as they say in politics, for 
Miss Bates engagement couples three 
great namesher own, that of Sir 
James Matthew Barrie and Mr. 
Charles Frohman. She is under the 
latters management and is playing 
Mr. Barries tremendously interesting 
and intensely dramatic three-scene, 
one-act play entitled Half an Hour.
Pennsylvania is having winter foot
ball practice every day. The practice 
consists in punting, carrying the ball 
and general rudiments of the game.
The muddy-trail has been replaced 
by a sidewalk.Tr.
for caps at lowest prices
For style, quality and durability you can depend on any cap 
purchased here.
We carry only reliable goods and the prices are the lowest quoted 
anywhere.Boggs BE Buhl, Pittsburgh, Penn a.
Forbes Quality Shop
Corner Forbes and Bouquet StreetLUNCHES
CANDY, SODA, CIGARS, MAGAZINES
The JUNIOR PROM
WILL BE HELD
FRIDAY NIGHT, FEBRUARY 20
THE R1TTENHOUSE
Subscription Five Dollars Music by Nirella
PITT.
A revival of Stephen Philips drama, 
Herod, will follow the remarkable 
run of The Blindness of Virtue at 
the Pitt theater next week. William 
Faversham originally produced the 
spectacle in Pittsburgh several sea
sons ago at the Alvin theater, and all 
Mr. Favershams original production, 
scenery, costumes and properties have 
been engaged by Mr. Patch for the Pitt 
players. Sir BeerbohnT Tree first pro
duced this drama at Her Majestys 
theater in London. In the production 
to be given at the Pitt Robert Gleckler 
will have Mr. Favershams role of 
Herod to the Marianne of Mary Hall, 
the Cadias of Wilson Day, the Schemus of Benjamin Kauser and the Aristobulue of Louis Kimball.
DUQUESNE.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.
Mr. Harry Davis takes pleasure in 
announcing the forthcoming starring 
engagement of Thomas W. Ross, who,THE DESCENT OF THESPIS

---------------------------------------------------

6lfje arimi
ADDRESS ON INDUSTRIAL EDU
CATION DELIVERED BE
FORE TEACHERS CLUB.
CHOCOLATES
OUR MESSENGER
GOOD
CLOTHESCHEAPER
Clothiers, Tailors,
Hatters, Furnishers
504-506 Federal Street,N. S. 
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
MOULDS
Candies and Ice Cream Sodas, 
Dainty Lunch.
Tables for Ice Cream.
Fancy Boxes, Baskets, Flavors, e tc 
208 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
THE TECH BOYS
Havent a theatre of their ownso 
many tell us the next best place to meet 
their friends is
THE CAMERAPHONE 
East Liberty
The Genuine Step of
Tango, One Step, Maxixe 
and Hesitations 
McDOUGALL DANCING ACADEMIES
4616 Forbes St., and Shady and Penn Aves. 
SPECIAL TANGO CLASS MONDAY EVENINGS
THE D. L.AULDCO.
MANUFACTURING JEWELERS 
AND STATIONERS
Columbus, Boston, Philadelphia, Chicago, Pittsburgh
FRATERNITY BADGES, CLASS PINS AND RINGS 
ENGRAVED INVITATIONS 
DANCE PROGRAMS
REGINALD TUTHILL
Representative for Penna. Bell, Hiland 1 ! 21R
P. O. Box 984 PITTSBURGH, PA.
At the luncheon of the Teachers 
Club, School of Applied Industries, 
held at the Schenley on Tuesday even
ing, February 10th, Mr. Paul Kreuzpointner, of Altoona, Pa., chairman of 
the committee on Industrial Educa
tion of the American Foundrymens 
Association, delivered an excellent ad
dress on The Larger Possibilities of 
Industrial Education. About fifty 
men were present, including members 
of the club and faculty representatives. 
Dean Connelly introduced the speak
er. Mr. Kreuzpointner spoke as fol
lows:
(1) From the Cultural Aspect.
With the rapid development of our 
resources, with the wealth accumulated 
through industry and commerce, with 
the great distances to be covered and 
with the enormous quantities of ma
terials to be produced and to be trans
ported, we have drifted unconsciously 
into the habit of measuring our 
achievements by quantity, as if the 
production of quantity was the aim 
and end of life and of national exist
ence.
Owing to this pressure for quantity 
we have even allowed our educational 
institutions to be measured by the yard 
stick and mass production. But quan
tity of intellectual output is not educa
tion and the insistent clamor of our 
industries for increased efficiency, and 
by the community for a higher ethical 
life and civic responsibility while so
ciety considers social service more and 
more as a part and parcel of cultural 
life and social welfare, would indicate 
that there are still large possibilities 
for achievements in the educational 
field and industrial education lends it
self admirably for that purpose.
Culture has always been one of the 
requirements of civilized life and it has 
been the contention of most school 
people, especially of the high school 
people that industrial education is de
void of cultural value, thus creating 
antagonism against the introduction 
of industrial education into our 
schools. A professor of the Univer
sity of Chicago claimed that even en
gineering education had no cultural 
value.
Culture has been defined as indus
try and skill conquering and making 
use of the forces of nature for the ben
efit of mankind, in social organization, 
in satisfying new demands through 
new inventions and to raise the stand
ard of living to a higher level.
To fulfill this ideal of cultural life 
requires the exercise of will power and 
it is a characteristic of industrial occu
pation that they require the exercise 
of will power to a large extent in or
der to put the chemical, physical and 
mechanical laws into tangible shape 
by creating, changing and renewing 
substances and material things re
quired by civilization.
At the same time, the conscientious 
performance of thus applying ones in
tellect and will power for the benefit 
of mankind is a social duty well per
formed and therefore possesses the
elements of culture and moral virtue.
Inventions and the production of instrumantalities which are helping to 
reduce distances, that favor inter
change and exchange of ideas between 
communities and nations, that produce 
better sanitary and hygienic condi
tions, that save life and prevent sick
ness and misery, and that show similar 
results of industrial activity lend 
themselves to improve living condi
tions and so promote cultural activity. 
Hence, industrial and technical edu
cation are agencies, the same as aca
demic education, for the promotion of 
a moral and cultural life.
To this end academic education fos
ters the desire for a cultural life while 
industrial education carries that de
sire into practice.
(2) From the Economic Aspect.
The material resources which are at 
our disposal to sustain life can either 
be renewed after having been used, 
like cereals and fibers, or their renewal 
takes more than a generation, like 
growing timber, or they cannot be re
placed like coal and minerals.
Since these resources are indispensible for our comfort and existence, 
for mental happiness and social peace 
and order it is self-evident that their 
economic and judicious use and con
servation, without curtailing present 
needs should and must form part of 
industrial and technical education.
The engineer and mechanic as well 
as the semi-skilled and unskilled help
ers have it in their power to save or 
waste enormous quantities of raw ma
terials of all sorts during their trans
formation into finished goods for 
food, shelter and clothing and other 
uses.
More than once I have told man
agers of large works that, from my 
knowledge of materials, I am con
vinced of the waste of thousands of 
dollars worth of materials in their 
works annually, not wilfully or vicious
ly, but simply for lack of knowledge 
by men and foremen. At one of the 
meetings of the Society for the Pro
motion of Industrial Education Mr. F. 
Geier, of Cincinnati, a manufacturer 
and exporter of machine tools, de
clared that it was more and more diffi
cult to compete with Germany in her 
trade, not because our mechanics are 
not skilled and intelligent enough, but 
because they do not know how to use 
time and materials, which deficiency 
raises the cost of production. At the 
recent Conservation Congress the 
statement was made that, upon the 
initiative of the United States Govern
ment, the Western saw mill owners 
tried to induce the builders and con
tractors of the country to accept lum
ber in odd feet lengths above three 
feet instead of, as now, only above ten 
feet. The Government claimed that 
iy2 per cent of lumber is wasted annu
ally because of not using the odd 
lengths like the even lengths, and that 
the annual growth of 30,000 acres of 
good timber land was required to re
place this 2^2 per cent of wasted lum
ber. But the builder and contractors 
would not accept the proposition. Here 
then we have one of many items where 
Continued on Page 7
ANOKA IVmARROW
^(COLLARCluett, Peabody & Co.. Inc. Makers
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, 
College Pennants, 
Banners and Pillow Tops.
HUKILL HUNTER (0.
4*4 Wood Street.
BELL PHONE 239 SCHENLEYWeber Express & Storage Co.
Moving, Packing and Storing of 
Furniture and Pianos. General Hauling
Baggage to and from Depot
4616-18-20 Henry St., Pittsburgh, Pa
fLOWERS fOR ALL OCCASIONS
Randolph & Me Clements
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Avenue 
Near Highland Ave.
xibp5C. M. STAUFT s
Stationery, News, Etc. 
Gentlemans Watches and Repairing.
Pittsburgh, Pa.^ 3702 Forbes St.
Mellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $8,000,000
Handsome homes, congenial 
surroundings, healthful location and 
convenience to all places, all com
bined in
SCHENLEY FARMS
Liberty Cleaning and 
Pressing Co.
301 S. Craig St. Cor., of Winthrop St. 
Bell Phone Schenley 309
Goods called for and delivered.Junior Prom Feb. 20.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

7
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUE, EAST END.
We are now REBUILDING and when completed we 
will have one of the most complete and modern exclusive 
SHOE STORES in Greater Pittsburgh.
Oar business continued while rebuilding, NEW FALL 
BOOTS are arriving daily.
WE'VE FITTED FEET OVER FORTY YEARS.
The Rittenhotise Ball Room
Affords The Best Ventilation. The Best Floor,
Most Privacy for
THE JUNIOR PROM, THE SENIOR BALL
or any similar functions given by Carnegie Tech Students
W. R. KUHN CO.
Address on Industrial Education
Continued from Page 6 j 
the industrial teacher has the power 
and opportunity to train the pupils 
mind along lines of economy. The 
waste of natural gas has been enor
mous and in California alone has 
been estimated to amount to the value 
of $8,000,000. On investigation it was 
found that in the Caddo field in Louisi
ana the waste of gas amounted to 75,- 
000,000 cubic feet per 24 hours. From 
one well in Kentucky enough gas es
caped during 20 years to be worth 
$3,000,000.
The waste of coal from coking in 
beehive ovens instead of in retort 
ovens is likewise very great and the 
value of recoverable, but wasted by
products of the beehive coke produc
tion in 1907 w'as estimated to have 
been $44,000,000. The United States 
Bureau of Mines claims that we waste 
fifty per cent of the coal mined or left 
underground, waste more natural gas 
than all the artificial gas made and lose 
from 10 to 50 per cent of the years 
production of important metalliferous 
and non-metalliferous minerals.
These wasteful habits of the people, 
having been created and fostered by 
the wealth of our resources which, in 
the early days of our industrial devel
opment gave the impression as if they 
were inexhaustible, have become and 
are now a menace to our material pros
perity because, while their available 
quality and quantity is decreasing, the 
quantities of coal, minerals and timber 
used is increasing and therefore indus
trial education has a fertile field of 
usefulness in training the mind of the 
mass of industrial workers to an under
standing of the value of our remaining 
resources and how to use and to con
serve them judiciously.
This I-dont-care habit and lack of 
technical knowledge applies also to 
agriculture where, as stated at the Con
servation Congress, the average wheat 
yield per acre has decreased to 14 
bushels per acre while in Western Eu
rope after a 1,000 years of cultivation 
the average yield per acre is 32 bush
els. The number of head of beef cat
tle imported in 1906 was 16,000 while 
in 1912 we imported 318,000. In 1911 
more than one hundred thousand farm
ers left their worn-out farms in the 
Northwest for the more fertile wheatfields of Canada, because they were un
willing or did not know how to im
prove their farms. Herein the indus
trial school has another mission in dif
fusing a knowledge and an understand
ing for the value of the necessary tech
nical knowledge how to conserve our 
resources.
(3) From the Educational Aspect.
It is obvious that the methods and 
organization of industrial and tech
nical education must conform to these 
cultural and economic requirements of 
community life and national existence. 
From the standpoint of self-preserva
tion, therefore, it is our duty to analyze 
the educational situation and to ascer
tain whether present methods and cur
ricula in all of bur schools, but particu
larly in our industrial schools, which 
are going to reach the great mass of
our industrial workers in shop, store 
and office, are sufficiently broad and 
flexible to do justice to present and 
future requirements of our industries 
and civilized life.
Without in the least undervaluing 
the past achievements and results of 
our educational system and with the 
fullest and sincere appreciation of the 
work done by our teachers past and 
present, it must be confessed frankly 
that the traditional methods and cur
ricula of our schools have become in
adequate for the purpose of meeting 
the increasing cultural, civic and vo
cational requirements and responsi
bilities of the mass of our people, i. e., 
of those who receive none but a grade 
school and high school education.
We have as yet no sufficiently ef
fective counter balance, as it were, to 
the ever tightening economic pressure 
with all its various consequences up
on the material, the intellectual and 
the moral life of the people, due to the 
increasing density of population and to 
the decrease in quantity and quality 
of our natural resources and the com
petition of foreign industrial nations 
with their better prepared industrial 
workers.
Aside from the educational require
ments to meet the progress in science, 
in commerce, in industry, and in trans
portation we have to overcome the 
serious disadvantage of inherited hab
its of wastefulness and the selfishly 
individualistic spirit of an intensely 
commercial age with an additional lack 
of discipline and co-operative spirit 
due to unlimited freedom1. This 
democratic freedom over-emphasizes the individualism which is culti
vated by unhampered commercial and 
industrial activity, inducing every one 
to go his own way without social re
striction, thus favoring a state of so
cial decentralization of society, very 
unfavorable to united and harmonious 
action where such action is necessary 
in community and political life.
To produce the requisite skill and 
technical knowledge in the mass of 
our industrial workers in shop, store 
and office, in order to carry on our in
dustries along newer economic and 
social lines and at the same time coun
teract the decentralizing influences of 
the age which breaks up society into 
numerous factions, each of which con
siders itself greater than the wrhole, 
we have had thus far hardly anything 
else to offer but intense manual dex
terity training with, here and there, a 
modicum of technical instruction but 
without economic-social back ground 
to give steadiness to the subjects.
Thus far we have neglected to corre
late instruction in the use of tools and 
construction with hardly any reference 
to economic necessity, social obliga
tion not to the ethical man and citi
zen.
Now then, in the supplying these 
educational deficiencies for the carry
ing on of our industries to make our 
bread and butter, and the taking care 
of the man and citizen, and in the in
tense cultivation of these neglected but 
fertile fields of educational endeavor 
lie the future usefulness and ethical 
value of industrial and technical edu
cation.
First and foremost industrial edu
cation must serve as a socializing, cen
tralizing agency to create and foster 
a healthy co-operative spirit in order 
to counteract the decentralizing ten
dencies of the age. Next we read a 
readjustment of our educational sys
tem, from the grades up, so that they 
may not only serve for the few who 
go to high school and college but also 
give equal proportionate value and op
portunity to the mass of industrial 
workers whether skilled, semi-skilled 
or unskilled, male or female, all of 
whom must and do contribute their 
share to the general welfare and ma
terial prosperity as workers as well 
as citizens. Let us not forget in the 
rush for wealth and preferment the old 
truth that in the end the mass always 
rules and if it does not rule by entelligence it will rule by brute force.
After all it is not so much special
ized instruction for the comparative
ly few highly skilled mechanics that 
we need most, but general intelligence 
for all the industrial workers. The 
man and woman with common sense 
and general intelligence can easily 
adapt himself to specific conditions, 
but the highly specialized worker with
out general intelligence is unable to 
grasp the meaning of the larger life 
around him. If any concern of con
siderable size it is not the superlative 
refinement of any single department 
which must secure success, but a high 
degree of general intelligence which is 
able to co-operate in all its details, 
Continued on Page 8
STUDENTS
Try one of our SPECIAL Tailor 
made suits at $18.00. Young Mens 
New Style for Spring.
Quite Classy You, will feel Sassy in our Made to Measure Suits. 
From
C. A. HEIMERT 
Mens Outfitter
3614 Forbes Ave. Iroquois Block, Oakland 
Established in Pittsburgh in 1882
Present this AD and we will allow you one dollar on your Spring 
Tailor made Suit.
The Oakland 
Savings & Trast Co.
The Oakland Bank
VANADIUM BUILDING
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,700,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
The Hotel Schenley Barber Shop
solicits your patronage. Our service is 
second to none at the regular prices
M. J. Chemoff, Proprietor.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as the best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.

---------------------------------------------------

8Stye arta
BENNETT'S
$17.AU MENS WINTER SUITS <c ( -7 50
Meaning Suits that were formerly priced $45,
$40, $35, $28, 525 ...
ALL OUR MENS ULSTERS 00
From which you may choose ulsters formerly 
$50, $45, $40 down to $25
ALL MENS OVERCOATS 00
Fine garments formerly $50, $45, $40, $35,
$30, $28, $25..............................................
BET I G. BENNFIT ft (I). WOODAND
BEST." FIFTH
THE MUSICAL CLUBS
HOME (MM AND DAIWt
Friday, March 13. Carnegie Music Hall
The seat sale opens shortly and in as much as 
the capacity of the hall is limited it will be ad
visable to act at once.
DESIGN JUNIOR SMOKER.
Another Success for the Design 
School.
When the doors of the drafting 
room opened last Friday evening, for 
the annual Junior Smoker, history be
gan to repeat. It repeated and went 
farther. It outshone any previous ef
fort that has been made.
The evening opened with a speech 
by Mr. Hornbostle. That alone would 
have been an evenings entertainment, 
because this great man left his offices 
in New York when his forces are fin
ishing the drawings for a big competi
tion, just to be with the boys and 
present the Beaux Arts medals which 
have been won by students at Car
negie during the last year. During 
the course of his speech he made 
known the fact that he would rather 
be there giving the boys the medals 
so keenly contested for, than be in 
England crowning the King. He also 
briefly outlined the program for Foun
ders Day when the beautiful Design 
Building will be completed, save for 
the niches, and dedicated. The build
ing of his dreams and most cherished 
ambition will at last stand forth in 
reality, the only building of its kind 
in the world, to house all of the Fine 
Arts.
Following the speech of the evening 
came speeches by Messrs. McGoodwin, Holmes, Taylor, Bergey and 
King.
Then to the conflict. Marks and McCaughey were the first gladiators on 
the program. After several rounds,
the bout ended with Marks viewing 
the world from one eye.
Long and Boyd then gave a nice 
sparring exhibition and Langfelter 
and Wallace finished with a Spanish 
Bull Fight.
Movies was the next on the pro
gram. This part consisted of a threereel feature called The Return of 
Helen Desmond, and the other a 
real film called The Thirteenth 
Bock. The last picture caused the 
building to shake with laughter from 
basement to roof. The pictures were 
shown by courtesy of The Schenley 
Motion Picture Theater.
Then came the eats, royal they were 
in quality and abundance. The 
smokes which permeated through the 
entire evening were of the best and 
every one there will vouch for the 
royal entertainment.'
DESIGN SCHOOL NOTES.
The smiling face of Edward Flambard, the new French Instructor, is 
welcomed to the Design School.
One by one they go. This time its 
Grace Garland. Oh, well, it might 
have been worse, he is a Design man, 
and a good Architect. Best wishes.
Gadjooks! The dramaticers!
Geoghen is some foot artist. The 
Design Club girls will vouch for that.
Every one enjoyed the T. D. C. 
dance.
Address on Industrial Education
Continued from Page 7 
that will bring surer results with less 
friction and contention and waste of 
time and material.
There is no reason why primary 
economic subjects and laws of nature 
should not be correlated with the work 
in the grades and thus make the grades 
preparatory to the part-time and con
tinuation schools as these schools 
should be preparatory to the specific 
trade schools, where there are such.
This primary, prevocational prepa
ration would not interfere with the 
preparation for the academic work of 
the high school since there is close co
ordination and equal psychological ef
fect. The subject matter to be taught 
in the grade, the part-time and con
tinuation schools, trade schools and 
technical high schools is a matter for 
separte discussion.
(4) From the Psychological Aspect.
There is one neglected phase of in
dustrial education which thus far has 
received no attention whatever. This 
is the psychological effect of extreme 
specialization of work with its mono
tony and mentally deteriorating influ
ences. As any part of the human body 
becomes weak and even useless from 
continued non-use, so likewise is the 
human brain affected if mental activity 
is constantly and intensely concen
trated in one direction only. Sooner 
or later, under the effects of constant 
repetition of one and the same manipu
lation, or a restricted number of man
ipulations, the mind becomes atro
phied. There ensues a growing inabil
ity for the mind to grasp related sub
jects of the environment, to grasp the 
meaning and import of happenings in 
community and industrial life and the 
person thus affected loses the perspec
tive and ideals of life if there ever 
were any present. With millions and 
millions of men and women constant
ly occupied in highly specialized pur
suits and more or less subjects to these 
atrophying influences,, according to 
vocation and mental disposition, this 
phase of modern industrial life de
serves our serious attention.
Who is prepared to say that much 
of the friction, unreasonableness and 
misunderstanding in industrial life of 
the present day may not be largely 
due to the inability to see and think 
straight, as a consequence of these 
atrophying influences. And this ap
plies to store and office as well as to 
the shop. In its consequences this 
phase of modern life will and does re
act injuriously upon our economic, 
civic, moral and intellectual life as 
well as upon the continued efficiency 
of the industrial worker.
A clipping from an article in the 
American Machinist of August, 1912, 
is illustrative of this phase.
Having to a large extent taken 
away the workingmans necessity for 
mental, as opposed to physical activ
ity, has resulted in a condition of men
tal stagnation. The individual, having 
become unaccustomed to use his in
telligence, is blamed for what he pos
sesses but lacks opportunity to exer
cise.
Similarly illustrative if this situa
tion is a remark by a subway guard 
who had made a mistake in calling out 
the station.
You see, he said, if you rode back 
and forth all day down here, you would 
forget which way you were going, too. 
There isnt a thing to guide you ex
cept the stations and the lay of the 
tracks. You forget how to think and 
grow to be a regular machine. That 
is the trouble with most of us.
I myself have frequently observed 
these deteriorating effects upon the 
mind even with good and intelligent, 
but highly specialized mechanics, in 
dealing with them concerning work to 
be done, which was liable to be done 
wrong because it was out of the rut 
of the usual work. And total lack of 
technical knowledge of mechanical 
subjects make this condition worse.
The same effects are noticeable with 
clerical occupations or work of a simi
lar nature.
And industrial education which con
fines itself exclusively to manual dex
terity, training, manipulation of tools 
and copying of drawings unconscious
ly prepares the mind, makes it more 
receptive, as it were, for these atro
phying effects when the pupils enter 
the shop or office.
Thus, we can readily conceive how 
industrial education, under injudicious 
and mentally narrowing methods of 
teaching and unrelated subjects, indus
trial education may become an agency 
for the fostering of mental dormancy 
of masses of industrial workers, in
stead of a useful and beneficial instrumantality in the hands of the school 
and teacher to benefit the industries 
and mankind and advance civilization.
SCHEDULE OF THE INDOOR 
BASE BALL LEAGUE.
Tues., Feb. 17th, Beta Theta vs. 
Theti Xi.
Thurs., Feb. 19, Xi Sigma vs.
Sigma Rho.
Tues., Feb. 24th, Science Plebes vs.
Science Sophs.
Thurs., Feb. 27th, Beta Theta vs.
Science Sophs.
Tues., March 3rd, Theta Xi vs. Xi 
Sigma.
Thurs. March Sth, Sigma Rho vs.
Science Plebes.
Tues. March lOth, Theta Xi vs. Sig
ma Rho.
Thurs., March 12th, Science Plebes vs.
Beta Theta.
Tues., March 17th, Xi Sigma vs.
Science Sophs.
Thurs., March 19th, Theta Xi vs.
Science Plebes.
Tues., March 24th, Beta Theta vs.
Xi Sigma.
Thurs., March 26th, Science Sophs vs.
Sigma Rho.
Tues., March 31 st, Theta Xi vs.
Science Sophs.
Thurs., April 2nd, Beta Theta vs.
Sigma Rho.
Tues., April 17th, Xi Sigma vs.
Science Plebes.
Games to start at 5:00 p. m. To 
last five innings.
We recommend the merchants advertising in the Tartan as th e best in town. They will give you the best prices and quality.
