Tebelak on Godspell, Pg. 11
Rutledge Accused 
of Intimidation
by Shelley Burhans
The CMU Staff Council, which is com
posed of faculty and some administrative 
personnel and has been in operation since 
last spring in the interest of obtaining im
proved working conditions for CMU em
ployees, is in the midst of a controversy 
involving the infringement upon free right 
and constitution of two of its members 
by Dr. Ronald Rutledge.
Rutledge recently sent memos to Nor
man Yalenty, Head of Staff Council, and 
Madeline Nasser, Chairman, impugning 
their right to send to employees a question
naire involving value determination of 
fringe benefits. According to Rutledge, 
Personnel takes care of this. He also 
stated that Staff Council has not been rec
ognized by the University as a functional 
organization, he reminded them of this 
fact. Rutledge sent carbon copies to the 
four people to whom Mr. Yalenty and Ms. 
Nasser are directly responsible; Dr. Lasseter 
of Mellon Institute, Doctor Coleman, Dean 
Toor of CIT, and Dr. Longini.
The issue revolved around the fact that 
carbon copies were sent to these four, who 
are not connected with Staff Council, but 
rather only in authority over the two em
ployees in their University positions. Said 
Yalenty, Its cohesion; its intimidation; 
its a direct open for my boss to take 
action against me. The response of the 
bosses was disgust with Rutledges ac
tion. The problem, which centers around 
the content of the memo and the fact as 
stated by one member of the Staff Council, 
that CMU has no disagreement with what 
were doing, yet refuses us recognition, as 
well as the issue of the carbon copies, is 
being pursued by the superiors, who have 
announced it and brought it up to the 
Mellon Institute College Council.
The twoemployees intend to take no 
personal action because,' in the words of 
Mr. Yalenty, We do not want to hurt our 
(organizational) efforts. Staff Council is 
concerned with the tenuous position of 
non-union and non-tenured employees, 
and, as stated by Mr. Yalenty, we are 
trying to take an advisory position in light 
of the lack of communications between 
staff and administration. We have some 
good people here; if we inject their ideas 
into the administration to weigh with their 
own, it could be extremely productive.
, Senate Sets 
Nov. 13-14 
For Elections
Dave Meixner of the Student Senate 
Rules Committee has announced that the 
following offices will be filled in a student 
election to be held on November 13 and
14.
Student Senate Constituencies: To be 
elected:
Undergraduate Female Residents of 
Mudge and Morewood Gardens: 2 full, 1 
half.
Independent Residents of E-Tower 
Morewood: 1 full, 0 half.
Independent Undergraduate Com
muters: 4 full, 3 half.
Fraternity Members: 2 full, 2 half.
Residents of Hill Dorms: 2 full, 2 half.
Graduate Students: 5 full, 4 half.
President of Carnegie Commuter Coun
cil of Pittsburgh: 1.
C.I.T. College Council: one at large seat 
who is not in the Department of Civil En
gineering.
H&SS College Council: Five seats dis
continued on page 7
October 31, 1972 Volume 73 Number 8
The Sigma Nu fraternity house was victimized by a burglary last week.
ohoto by Bruce Edelston
Dorm, SN Robbed; 
Police Help Taylor
by Stacy Kimble
On the morning of October 22, there 
was a theft in a Morewood Gardens dormi
tory room while the occupants were asleep. 
When they woke watches, jewelry, and a 
theatre pass had been stolen from the top 
of dressers and desks. The door to the 
room had not been locked the night 
before. Within the last week there was also
Gallery May Close
by Greg McKenna
In the space where there once was a 
drugstore at 5200 Forbes Avenue there is 
now the CMU Student Gallery. Becuase of 
the cost to the University, the Gallery may 
be closed next year as part of the Adminis
trations program to save money at all 
costs. If this were to happen, every student 
in the University and especially students in 
painting and sculpture will be affected.
The purpose of the Gallery, explained 
Deborah Hallam, assistant student director, 
is to present work thats being done by 
students to the public. In addition to the 
exposure and experience in gallery manage
ment gained by the students, there is a 
great deal of publicity for the school in 
having the Student Gallery. Also, the Gal
lery sells about S2,000 worth of student 
art every year, ten percent of which goes to 
the Administration. This activity receives 
no financial support from the Administra
tion other thafi use of space.
Cost. This is the main reason why the 
Gallery would be moved or eliminated 
completely. To Deborah Hallam, the two 
are equivalent. She explained that the pres
ent location is ideal, being on a main road 
and easy to find, and that to move the 
Gallery to the Fine Arts Building (a possi
ble sight for relocation) would totally defeat the purpose of having a Gallery in the 
first place. The real costs of the Gallery to 
the University lie in renovation and lost
The CMU Student Gallery may be forced to close 
its funding.
opportunity rental. Three years ago the 
University spent SI0.000 to change what 
used to be a drugstore into an art gallery. 
Every year the University loses $5,000 in 
iot opportunity rental which m?ans the 
Administration has determined that it 
could be getting $5,000 more per year by 
renting the store-front to a business.
It seems that on the level of dollars arid 
cents, the Gallery is indeed costly. Ms. Haliam points out that One can't judge the
if the Aministration cuts off
photo by John Shettel 
Gallery in dollars and cents. People from 
all over the United States come to see our 
Gallery; and you cant do a cost/benefit 
analysis on public relations. But most im
portant is the Gallerys value to the 
students.
As a step toward preserving the Gallery, 
a benefit sale of works donated by CMU 
art students is being held. Ths show opened 
Monday, October 23, and will continue to 
Novembej 4.
an early morning robbery at ther fraternity 
house of Sigma Nu.
This year according to security director 
Ron Taylor, car and bicycle thefts are 
definitely down, but as a result of these 
thefts, security on campus and the city 
police have decided that a protective 
measure for future robberies must be 
taken.
Police precinct number 6 will initiate a 
program on campus called Operation 
Identification. The plan is for several 
police officers to be on campus during the 
month of November to engrave I.D. 
numbers on student property. The 
numbers will either be drivers license or 
social security numbers. These numbers 
will be recorded with the campus security 
office. Ron Taylor believes that having 
such identification on stolen property, will 
better enable the recovery of such objects. 
It is also believed that potential thieves will 
shy away from confiscating registered pro
perty. Students will be given stickers to put 
on their doors explaining that valuable 
property within the room is protected. 
Security has urged all students to register 
bicycles, record playerS, tape decks, and 
other property of value.
continued on page 14
Dr. Williams, 
Head of EE, 
Dies at 57
Everard M. Williams, George Westinghouse professor of engineering at C-MU, 
died October 24 at his home, following a 
long illness.
Dr. Williams, 57, who came to CMU in 
1945, was head of the department of 
electrical engineering from 1952 to 1969, 
and was chairman of the University's 
Applied Space Sciences Program from 
1963 to 1969. He was named George 
Westinghouse professor of engineering in 
1969.
In 1971 Dr. Williams received the 
Western Electric Award for excellent 
instruction of engineering students lie

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972editors note
The TARTAN has for these last weeks before the November 7 
election run a series of features explaining the offices and comparing the 
candidates, in their own words. In this issues we continue with the 
candidates for Congress, and an explanation of the home-rule referendum 
question. (Some students will be voting as absentees or in other Pittsburgh 
districts and will be faced with different candidates.) As the TARTANs 
editor-in-chief, / strongly recommend that you read and compare these 
features.
The editor, not necessarily representing the TARTAN staff, 
endorses:
for Congress: William Moorhead, the incumbent. Mr. Moorheads 
voting record, particularly on the war and military spending, is very good. 
His opponent, Roland Catarinella, is exploiting the busing issue in a most 
vulgar and irrational manner. Mr. Moorheads endorsement is not un
reserved; he would do well to reconsider his possible conflict of interest as 
a member of the House Banking Committee.
for State Auditor General: Robert Casey, the incumbent. Mr. Casey 
has shown vigorous initiative in professionalizing his department and in 
fulfilling his duties.
for State Treasurer: While not formally endorsing Grace Sloan, it 
should be pointed out that her opponent did not respond to the TAR
TAN, and hence to you, its readers.
for State Legislature: Ivan Itkin. Dr. Itkin gave the most straight 
forward, least obfuscated answers of any candidate. He opponents (Ber
nard Markovitz) answers were less dear, and the tone of those (specifically 
abortion) given the PITTSBURGH PRESS seemed significantly different 
from the tone of those given the TARTAN. Also repugnant were Mr. 
Markovitzs recent histrionic maneuvers on busing.
for State Senate: No endorsement. The incumbent, Frank Mazzei, 
who failed to respond to the TA R TA N,- is running unopposed. Rather 
than simply not voting, perhaps a write-in for Mazzeis narrowly defeated 
primary opponent, Independent Democrat William Coyne, would be in 
order.
on the referendum: Yes vote on the Home Rule Study Commis
sion. Any plan proposed by the Commission would need voter approval, 
so there is at this stage nothing to lose.
Again, the importance of your vote must be stressed. As previously 
stated editorially (TARTAN, 915172) the System may be limited, and the 
electoral process may ultimately be incapable of producing significant 
change. If perfection is impossible, improvement is somewhat possible, 
and putrefaction is always likely. The electorate decides which it is to be.
"Whose fault is it, then, that we get what we deserve in government... 
it isnt the fault of the lower order of the genus pol, but it is the fault 
of you, the people. Your public servants serve you right; indeed often 
they serve you better than your apathy and indifference deserve. 
(Adlai Stevenson, 1952)
The war is over. Maybe.
To those of us who know Nixon, its no surprise. Weve known for 
almost four years that the war would end two weeks before the election.
A little cynical? Maybe, but then we have a President who encourages >
cynicism.
We knew, believed, that it would happen. But now that it really 
seems to have happened, its unbelievable. Its too preposterous, too 
surreal, to be true. You dont turn off a war like a light. You dont keep a 
war going until the right moment and then stop it. Millions of people 
couldnt have been killed, maimed, and made homeless to make the world 
safe for Nixon.
Words must fail when the mind cannot conceive.
*****
We have a President who manipulates a war to secure re-election. 
And ITT, and the Russian wheat deal, and the Pentagon Papers, and the 
Anderson papers, and the ever spreading Watergate caper...
We have a national climate of decejt and corruption, propagated 
from the highest levels. Cynicism and distrust are all pervasive, the only 
reaction possible to never ending official chicanery.
McGoverns campaign is in stark contrast to the prevailing 
atmosphere. We are offered a warm, caring person, an honest man.
Has the cynicism gone so deep that we prefer a race-baiting, red
baiting, demagogic, mass murdering Machiavelli to a chance at establishing
a nation f>f trust and honesty? .7 Steve Jurman
Food Service has permitted the take-over by the military of one of 
our most precious possessions, our cafeteria. With the signing of the 
United States Constitution came the right to refuse to quarter the troops, 
yet this right seems to have been taken away from the student at CMU by 
Food Service.
It was arbitrarily decided that the profit received from the Naval 
Luncheon held this Saturday, would outweigh the inconvenience placed 
on the students. This raises the questions of "Who has the right to decide 
this except contract holders who are essentially stockholders if we are to 
believe in the administrations new policy of treating students as cus
tomers? and Since when does CMU Food Service operate on a profit 
motive, and if they do, isnt this new policy going too far?
/ raise these questions simply to find out whether / can believe the 
'Student Handbook (see related article) or whether it is simply a book 
of rules that apply only to the students and not the administration.
Gary Singer
MATheARANas
,,Senat MEETING Vou I4ERE!Letters:
Editor:
I am leaving C-MU for good and I have 
stumbled upon one of the biggest ripofFs 
this school has yet to produce-re funds on 
the food service. I turned my meal ticket in 
the last day of mid-semester, implying I 
had eaten l/i of the $270 I payed for it. It 
just so happens they dont see it quite that 
way. They do believe Ive only eaten $135 
worth of the meal plan but they also feel 
that I should pay 60 percent of whats left 
because I was stupid enough to buy it. 
Therefore, instead of a $135 dollar refund 
I get 135 x (.4) dollars or $54. It will cost 
me $81 in uneaten food just to leave. Fair 
is fair and a 70 percent refund seems 
reasonable but a 40 percent refund is a 
ripoff. So next time all you happy eaters 
see a contract that says refund schedule on 
file or by request, ask for it and check it 
out. BCNU.
Philip V. Schilloci
Editor:
I offer the following responce (sic) to 
the commentary on Fraternity rush in the 
Oct. 10 issue of the Tartan.
First I appologize (sic) if any person was 
deprived of time that he would have been 
studing (sic) in by Greeks visiting him. 
We in the fraternities have always pro
moted academics and good study habits. If 
this situation does exist I will make every 
effort to correct it.
While we do operate a kitchen for 
members we do not intend to become an 
alternative to food service. I am distressed 
by the additude (sic) that the fraternities 
are someone to take for a ride. If a man is a 
man he will not do so.
If any person feels that they cannot 
meet the brothers now they have misinterpted (sic) our intentions. The one 
month rush was to allow those person who 
were ready to try a fraternity the chance to 
do so. I am sorry for any undue pressure to 
join at that time. The fact that these 
people could start then I no way restricts 
any one from deciding at a later date. In 
fact we opperate a rush at the beginning of 
second semester for the persons who were 
not ready to decide or just did not rush 
yet.
The whole basis of a fraternity is friend
ship and while it is called rush it is still the 
process of making friends. I encourage all 
students to become acquainted with the 
fraternities and sororities as frieds (sic), 
and I hope you will consider membership 
in one of the brotherhoods.
John Bell 
Pres. CFP
Editor: ,
Among the arguments cited (TARTAN, 
Oct. 24) for rejection of the petition to 
suspend classes on and before election day 
were that very little of (students time 
would be) used for the intended purpose of 
campaigning, and that substantially 
more time would be required to campaign 
effectively.
As for the latter argument, admittedly it 
would be ridiculously hopeless to start a 
campaign the Friday before the election. 
However, many people have been working 
for McGoverns campaign for a year or 
more, and many more workers are needed 
immediately before the election than usual. 
A large fraction of the electorate is un
decided, so the Presidential election could 
be decided by the last weekend of can
vassing and by election day work.
Unfortunately, the former argument 
probably applies to the CMU campus at the 
time of the 1972 election; the apathy here 
is overwhelming. There was considerably 
more student interest in the 1968 
campaign and in politics in the nonpresidential election year of T970, when 
only a few seniors could vote, than there is 
in the present campaign, when all but a few 
freshmen can vote, despite the greater im
pact of the outcome of this election.
Space does not permit adequate argu
ments against the most reasonable excuses 
for such inactivity, but I shall try to deal 
briefly with a few. Some people are 
dissatisfied with Nixon, but consider 
McGovern too radical. This opinion could 
be based on a misrepresentation of 
McGoverns positions; accurate statements 
can be obtained from McGovern head
quarters. McGoverns backing down on
some positions and on his support of Eagleton has caused much dissatisfaction among 
former supporters. They should remember 
that some of this is necessary to gain 
enough popular support for those who 
think McGovern has no chance to be 
elected, so working for him is pointless, 
should remember the many undecided 
voters and canvass them this weekend.
Anyone willing to help the McGovern 
campaign should call or drop in at 
McGovern Headquarters, 229 N. Craig St. 
(683-8300) in Oakland or 311 Fourth Ave. 
(566-2350) downtown. Those who want to 
canvass should show up at headquarters 
Saturday morning at 10 and Sunday at 
noon to be taken to districts in which they 
are most ui gently needed.
Patton Seifert
(Physics Department)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 31, 1972Page 3
Commentary
Election Preview: 
Congress And Home Rule Study
by Jim Slivka
The candidates for the 14th Congressional seat are presented this week. The 
Democratic.candidate is William S. Moorhead, a 12 year Congressperson and the 
incumbent. His opponent is Roland S. Catarinella, Republican, who is a builder, 
realtor, and developer by profession.
William S. Moorhead (D). Incumbent, Con
gressman; attorney. Married, Age 48. Edu
cation: Yale University, 1944; Harvard 
Law School, 1949. Has served as a member 
of Congress, 86th Congress thru 92nd 
(1959 to present). Previous business experi
ence includes that of attorney, member of 
the law firm of Moorhead and Knox; asst.
'/City Solicitor, City of Pittsburgh; member, 
Allegheny Co. Housing Authority. Military 
Service: U.S. Navy, 1944-46, Destroyer 
Duty in Pacific Theatre. Member: Ameri
can Legion; Amvets; V.F.W.; Board of 
Trustees, Tuberculosis League of Pitts
burgh; Board of Directors, Pittsburgh Arts 
Council; Pittsburgh History and Landmarks 
Foundation; Board of Directors, Pittsburgh
& Park and Playground Society.
Roland S. Catarinella (R). Builder; Devel
oper; Realtor. Married, 3 children. Age 46. 
Education: United States Military Aca
demy, West Point, B.S. 1946. Previous 
business experience: Home Builders Asso
ciation of Pittsburgh (president, 1959); 
Home Builders Assn. of Penna. (president, 
1960); National Assn. of Home Builders 
(Regional vice-pres., Region 3, 1961); Na
tional Assn. of Home Builders (vice-pres., 
1966). Military service: Army, cadet,
U.S.C.C. Member: National Assn. of Home 
Builders (Life Director); Allegheny Co. 
Taxpayers League (Treasurer); Civic Light 
Opera (Board); American Legion; Wilkins 
Twp. Lions Club.
1) What would you do to procure technical research projects for your district?
1) By maintaining good communi
cations between business and academic 
leaders in the Pittsburgh area and myself, I 
keep up on the latest accomplishments of 
local Research and Technology depart, ments and facilities.
In Washington, I actively promote our 
areas Research and Technology capa
bilities with federal agencies.
I encourage local groups and businesses 
to employ my offices in seeking federal 
funds for projects. I personally write letters 
and communicate with federal officials on 
behalf of constituents in search of federal 
. funds.
s When I am aware of a federal program 
in search of a city, I lobby for Pitts
burghs consideration. The best, and most 
recent, example of my activity in this 
regard, is the experimental housing 
allowance program.
This involved a proposed study to deter
mine if categorical housing programs can 
be replaced with direct cash grants to 
P eligible persons.
Upon learning of the experiment, I con
tacted the Assistant Secretary for Research 
and Development at HUD and discussed, at 
length, with him Pittsburghs merits. I 
supplied him with date on Pittsburghs
This question requires three answers in a 
sense. One would pertain to universitybased research; the second to independent 
research organizations; and the third to re
search laboratories and activities which are 
part of industrial concerns. This is assum
ing that your question applies to industrial 
research as opposed to medical research.
There are several ways in which a con
gressional office can be of service. Obvious
ly, support of appropriations in the area of 
technical research is basic.
Close liaison between the congressional 
office and research resources is also a must. 
One man would be assigned from my office 
to work in this area.
District seminars would be useful so 
that federal officials would meet regularly 
with resource people here so that our peo
ple would be aware of available contracts 
and how best to approach them. These 
seminars wouls also serve to expose federal 
officials to the more than 100 existing re
search facilities in this area and focus their 
sights here at least for specific research. 
This areas image as a hulking, heavy-indus
try oriented unit must be corrected to ac
quaint federal authorities with the wide 
range of research available here; the extent 
of university staff available; and the manuA Gay Comments 
On Convention Feature
Editor:
1 have been sitting here reading the ar
ticles concerning GAP and the Gay Con
vention soon to be held in Pittsburgh. As a 
freshman, and coming from a small town in 
Pennsylvania, I really havent had much 
 exposure to activities of this nature. Being 
b gay, and realizing it for many years, Ive 
kept this dark secret from nearly every
one except a few.
As far back as 1 can remember, Ive had 
something of an inferiority complex. Ive 
never felt quite equal to others because of 
my abnormality as Ive heard it called. 
When Ive heard many of my friends cut.. ting up gays by calling them everything 
Mrom queers to faggots. Ive never had 
the courage to tell them that theyre cut
ting up one of their friends, and this has 
hurt me very much. Right now I dont have 
die courage to give my name because there 
aie many people here who I like very 
much, male and female, and Im not sure 
what their reaction would be if they really 
know the real me. Im not saying that 1 put 
y on a big act for anyone, because I dont! 1
havent found the courage to declare my 
liberation but at the same time I would 
lose respect for myself if I claimed to be 
something I was not. When I see these same 
people, who cut the gays to pieces, lower
ing their standards and morals to cut up 
other people, I wonder if theyre so great 
themselves?
At any rate, 1 suppose there will always 
be people who will not accept the situation 
foi what it really is. Were not all scream
ing queens. Sex is not the main drive in 
my life. Ive heard this to be many peoples 
opinion concerning gay people. Although it 
is true for some, it isnt for all of us.
1 really dont know why I wrote this. 
Perhaps its a combination of being in
spired and realizing that life can be beauti
ful. Its what ever you make it to be 
whether youre gay or straight. After read
ing the articles in the Tartan, I do realize 
that the type of life that Ill probably lead 
can be a strong one. It really isnt as dirty 
and immoral as many make it out to be.
Name withheld by request
housing situation. I was told later by 
Administration officials that my efforts 
were significant in Pittsburgh being chosen 
as the site for this unique experiment.
facturing capabilities and practical research 
orientation of area research resources.
2) Do you believe in the institution of rules making it easier for minority groups to 
become integrated into the basic mainstream of the institutions of our society?
2) Yes. To the extent that compen
satory programs are necessary to offer 
equal opportunity to those who have been 
actively denied that opportunity.
3) Discuss why you favor or oppose busing.
3) I do not favor busing. I support 
the position of parents who object to 
having their children taken involuntarily 
from what they consider to be a superior 
school and sent to what they consider to 
be an inferior school.
I support the position of other parents who 
wish to transfer their children from an in
ferior to a superior school.
In Pittsburgh the issue of busing is a 
local or state issue involving either the 
School Board or the State Human 
Relations Commission.
I believe we should permit anyone to be
come whatever he or she wants to be; there 
should be no bars, either stated or implied. 
Rules to benefit minority groups would be 
beneficial so long as they do not abrogate 
existing rights of others.
I oppose forced school busing to achieve 
what is generally thought to be racial inte
gration. The question is unrealistic. It begs 
the true question. Dr. Cowman who wrote 
the original report in 1966 on equality of 
educational opportunity does not now 
seem to believe that such integration can 
be achieved in major urban cities.
The basic question has to do with the
environmental differences in the various
neighborhoods. The cosmetic effect of
changing the school site does not change
the environment of the child. Bane and
Jencks write that there is little economic 
continued on page 8
ABSENTEE
BALLOT
NOTARY
SERVICE
THE DEPARTMENT OF STUDENT ACTIVITIES 
WILL PROVIDE A 
NOTARY PUBLIC SERVICE 
for
CMU STUDENT'S ABSENTEE BALLOTS 
SKIBO LOBBY 
Wednesday, November 1 3-7 pm 
Friday, November 3 3-7 pm
NO CHARGE
Editor in Chief.....................Steve Jurman
Special Editor......................MinaGerall
News Editor.............................Jeff Ganek
News Staff ........................Steve Correl
Anne Friedman, Laurel Felix 
Mike Hill, Greg McKenna 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Gary Singer, John Spalding 
Brandon Dula, Shelley Burhaus 
Greg Fulton, Stacy Kimble
Features Editor ......................Dave Guida
Features Staff....................Chris Infante
Ellen Steiber, Joan McCluskey 
David Stewart 
Marc Field, Craig Collins
Political Editor............................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... John Shettel
Greg Nickel, Henry Collins
Rick Werme, Nick Lardas
Bruce Edelston, Carl Grefenstette
Frank Stem, Andrea Friedman 
Dan Goldstein
Entertainment Editor . . Steva Saunders 
Entertainment Staff .... Julio Vera 
Nonie Dempsey, Terry Cay wood 
Steve Perkins, Fred Gormley 
Paula Shubock, Arnie Karr, 
Stephen Hamm
Business Manager................Alice Bright
Advertising Manager . . . Laura Powers
Layout................................Becky Carrol
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff ............................MinaGerall
Sandy Preuhs
Published tv^ry Tuesday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Meilon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, CarnegieMeilon University. Telephone (412) 
682-4557.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972
BEFORE THE S5th AMENDMENT,
WE DIDN'T HAVE THE RIGHT TO VOTE,
AND IT WAS THEIR WAR, THEIR POVERTY
AND THEIR CORRUPT POLITICS! 
NOW, IF NIXON WINS, ITLL BE OUR WAR,
OUR POVERTY, OUR CORRUPT POLITICS. i
HELP US STOP THIS IDIOCY: 
HELP US ELECT PRESIDENT 
GEORGE McGOVERN.
HOW?? CANVASS CRITICAL 
NEIGHBORHOODS AND HELP 
GET PEOPLE TO THE POLLS 
ON ELECTION DAY____
McGOVERN HEADQUARTERS 
229 N. CRAIG ST.
683-8300
SAT., 10:00 A.M (coffee end donuts) ,
SUN., 12:00 NOON
ELECTION DAY |
"I STAKE MV HOPES IN 197S IN LARGE 
PART ON THE ENERGY, THE WISDOM,
AND CONSCIENCE OF YOUNG AMERICANS.
\ ^
GEORGE McGOVERN 
ROLLING STONES, JUNE 8, 1972
peid for by C-MU students for McGOVERN SHRIVER

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972-Page 5Chicagoan Comes To C-MU
Rev. Jesse Jackson 
Speaks To Class
* by Anne Friedman
On October 25 Professor Norman 
Johnsons old fraternity brother, Rev. Jesse 
Jackson, was a guest lecturer for Johnsons 
course Power Structures and Organiza
tional Activity. Jacksons first hard insight 
into the structures of power made for a 
 v fast fifty minutes. It is an ideal form of 
education, that involves a prominent leader 
in a class discussion that relates to aspect^ 
of his life.
Jackson believes that if one accepts his 
own essence and condition; it is the first 
criteria for power. He stated that just as a 
house divided against itself cannot stand, it 
is thus with the individual. If ones per
sonality is split, his mind will be weak and 
I he will not hold any power. Ultimately, 
Jackson believes, the power is in the 
people, and the way to reach this power is 
to address oneself to the needs of the 
people. He made references to the success 
of Jesus perceptivity of the peoples needs.
It was this quality that made him a power
ful man and a leader.
Jackson believes that Americas power 
structure is headed in the wrong direction. 
Instead of balancing the economy in this 
country and making it possible for mem
bers of minorities to have a share in the job 
market. Jackson stated, Nixons whole 
trip in China and Russia is extending the 
economy rather than enhancing the. 
economy here. The press can easily njanipulate a persons thoughts so that he 
doesnt understand what, how, or why 
something is going on. Jackson thinks that 
when the people are aware of the actual 
situations, then they are capable of,,holding 
power.
Jackson said that once one can under
stand that need is the basis for organi
zation; self interest is the sustaining force, 
and service is power, then one will be able, 
to tap the power force which resides in the 
people.
^ Rev. Jesse Jackson, the Chicago organizer, told C-MU students last week that "this
is not integration, but infiltration". photo by Car, Grefenstette
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
Two Locations 
OAKLAND-3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
10% of U.S. Jobs 
For Blacks Sez Rev.
by Gary Singer
Rev. Jesse Jackson spoke last Wed
nesday at the first of the Professional 
Seminar Series in the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs Masters Program. Jackson is 
the former director of the Southern 
Christian Leadership Conferences 
Operation Breadbasket, and is presently 
the President of Operation Push.
Rev. Jackson informed his audience that 
they can sit around the street corners at 
home and learn black history. You are 
here so that you can bring back skills to 
the reservation. This is not integration, but 
infiltration. He continued by saying that 
a diploma on the wall with no 
knowledge means that you will go back 
to the reservation and spread ignorance. 
The Trustees dont care, they wont hire 
you anyway.
Rev. Jackson outlined the progress of 
the black movement from when they were 
forced to sit behind a curtain in the back 
of the bus, to where they are now, thirteen 
years later, at the head of some cities. It 
started when someone snatched down the 
curtain. People tend to want what they see, 
so when the curtain came down we began 
to ask, why cant we sit in the frgnt of the 
bus?...in fact why cant we own the bus 
company? In order to own these com
panies, said Rev. Jackson, we had to get 
into politics.
Commenting on the upcoming election, 
Jackson said that he doesnt place too 
much emphasis on the particular man in 
office. He said he was working for 
McGovern during the primary because this 
candidate was a reformer, fighting for the 
people; thus the people came out and 
worked for him, conquering places like 
California. Since Miami, McGovern hasnt 
talked to the people no more. Rather 
than taking the bird in hand, McGovern 
dropped the bird in hand and went to the 
bird in the bush (the old time democrats). 
Jackson still supports McGovern, but lacks 
the incentive to go out and work for him.
BETOS PIZZA
Pizza, Hot Hoagies
11 pm-1 am M.F, 4 pm-1 am S-S
682-8656
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
RU6S
for less
with your ID CardV1000 9x12 Rugs 
S15 $19 S29 549
aba 12x12a, 11*15* *.
 WHOLESALE FURNITURE  
BEDROOMS, LIVING ROOMS, ETC AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director Chain, Bvftorfty Chain, 
Lamp, (k. Larger Furniture tfcni 
Whole Showrooms.
CHASES
5424 WALNUT STREET, SHADYSIDE
OPflN DAILY 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. (Saturday 10 o.nv. to 5 p.m.) Ear Information . . . CaM 421*1025
Jackson elaborated on his opinion that 
it doesnt matter on the man in office. A 
movement starts from the bottom up. If 
enough people move around a purpose, 
politicans are going to become interested in 
that cause in order to become the hero of 
the crowd. The reason you dont realize 
that it is a purpose rather than a leader that 
inspires people, continued Jackson, is 
that the newspapers cant photograph a 
purpose.
Jackson said that there isnt just an 
urban crisis, or a race crisis, or an economic 
crisis but the sum total of a civilization 
crisis. People must realize that if every
body dies, they die. We must save our
selves as well as our enemies or we will all 
be the victims of a collission. Most people 
play spectator but there will never be total 
liberation without total participation. We 
must seize power or have a seisure.
The current ten percent quota, says that 
blacks are entitled to 10 percent of the 
nations jobs and resources. This idea 
causes friction because those now holding 
such jobs feel threatened by the idea of 
unemployment. The only way to solve the 
problem, according to Rev. Jackson, is to 
expand the economy (instead of deep 
freezing it), thus creating more jobs and 
reaching 100 percent employment
opus one 
celebrated 
its birthday 
this fall.
it is 15,000 
sound systems 
old ! ! !
that's quite a bit of responsibility, 
during the past thirteen years we 
engineered these music systems for 
natural sound, checked them thor
oughly before delivery, and backed 
them with our service department, 
this last important part of opus one 
compels us to do the engineering 
and the checking to the best of our 
abilities.
we feel that we are responsible for 
your equipment in or out of the 
warranty period, therefore recom
mending products that give you and 
opus one service problems frankly 
scares us to death! so, we test all 
the new stereo equipment to dis
cover which sound the best and 
which stay that way.
when you are interested in a natur
al sounding stereo system that will 
last a long time and cost less ttian 
you think, spend some time with us. 
we aim to design and stand behind 
another 15,000 great music sys
tems.
opus one
Oakland3519 forbes ave. 
421-9777
downtown400 smithfield St. 
281-3949

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972
Candidates Take Issue
The TARTAN, in service to its readers, 
has undertaken to compile a comprehen
sive listing of both candidates views on 
those issues which are, in our opinion, 
most pertinent to our readers. Each of the 
issues have been prepared with fairness as a 
primary concern, but because of the rela
tively unavailability of information from 
Republican Campaign Headquarters, on 
President Nixons policies and positions, 
comments may seem lacking on his behalf
The TARTAN feels it is our duty to 
provide this service to the members of the 
C-MU community inorder to promote a 
more informed and thus more effective 
electorate.
by Chris Infante and Gary Singer
International
DEFENSE POLICY
President Nixon, as evidenced by his 
past four years in office believes that 
America will remain fully involved in 
world affairs, and yet do this in ways that 
will elicit greater effort by other nations 
and the uptaining support of our people. 
To effect this policy Nixon believes that a 
strong economic and military assistance 
program is essential.
Senator George McGovern has said 
America must end its obsessive emphasis 
on arms production and military force. We 
can talk about saving our environment, or 
rebuilding cities, or ending poverty, poor 
health care, and bad housing; but none of 
those things will be adequately addressed 
as long as we are pouring our money, 
energy, and blood into the cauldron of war 
and the unchecked production of military 
armanment. The Senator added in a later 
speech, What I propose is that we spend 
all that is necessary for a prudent national 
defese. And I propose that we spend no 
more than that.
DEFENSE SPENDING
President Nixons policy favors the 
improvement and continued developement 
of military equipment. This policy is con
trasted by George McGoverns proposed 
cut of thirty billion dollars of the defense 
budjet. Nixon claims that this continued, 
although reduced rate, of improvement of 
the military is necessary to protect the 
National Security while McGovern claims 
his cut will not damage this nations defense 
position.
THE DRAFT AND AMNESTY
Both candidates are in favor of an all 
volunteerarmy and the illimination of the 
draft. This position is sumarized in a 
speech delivered by Senator McGovern in 
April 1968 in which he said: A voluntary 
system would not only be more effective, 
but more in keeping with the traditions of 
America. Many of our forefathers came to 
the United States to escape compusory 
military systems in Europe...I voted against 
the draft and I intend to continue my 
efforts until a majority of the Congress can 
be persuaded to the common sense of a 
voluntary program. This policy has re
cently been implimented by the President 
and shall become effective as of July.
The two candidates position on 
amnesty for draft dodgers differ slightly. 
Nixon has said that after the Vietnam war 
is over and the U.S. prisoners are returned, 
I for one would ber very liveral with re
gard to amnest....It would have to be on 
the basis of their....paying the price that 
anyone should pay for violating the law. 
McGovern has stated that upon the conclu
sion of the Vietnamese confilict, he would 
grant general amnesty to draft evaders but 
cases of deserters should be considered on 
an individual basis to dertermine the basis
o the action and whe her it was related to 
the war.
'NO Co^iAMT
INDOCHINA WAR
Because of the recent developements 
between the various members of the Nixon 
Administration and the Vietnamese Go
vernments, reporting on definate positions 
taken by the candidates is not practicle. It 
should be noted, though, that Senator 
George McGovern was the first U.S. Sena
tor to speak out against the American mili
tary involvement in Vietnam, on Septem
ber 24, 1963.
VETERANS
Domestic
EDUCATION
While the Nixon Administration favors 
better education for all children they have 
made their stand against busing final. The 
president has asked for increased funds for 
disadvantaged children and has submitted 
to Congress an additional request (Equal 
Opportunity Act) of $2.5 billion for educa
tion.
McGovern, who has earned his PhD, be
lieves that school busing... (is) among the 
prices we are paying for a century of segre
gation... He realizes the importance of 
education as is evident by his legislative 
record and will use $15 billion of the de
fense cutbacks to defray education costs 
by one-third.
SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Both candidates favor federal funding in 
civilian and scientific research and develop
ment. Mr. Nixon has signed Moscow agree
ments for co-operationin space, environ
ment, health, science and technology. 
McGovern has proposed two major bills 
that would assit displaced scientists and 
engineers during the period of economic 
conversion and has asked for increased 
scholarships for students in the sciences.
JOBS AND THE ECONOMY
To combat inflation Nixon has relied 
largely on wage and price controls and in
1971 increased espenditures for emergency 
jobs on state and local levels by $2.2 bil
lion. In response to his earlier vetoes of 
bills involving employment and manpower 
training he has stated, WPA-type jobs are 
not the answer...(it is a) costly and time 
consuming method...
A job for all who can work is among 
McGoverns highest domestic priorities. 
Out of the $30 billion cut in the military 
budget he will use $ 1 Obillion to create 
more civilian jobs by expanding housing, 
transportation, environmental protection 
and public service employment. He strong
ly feels that a tax reform is essential to 
close loopholes in the present day system.
The veterans are fortunate in that Nixon 
and McGovern both agree on the necessity 
of improvements in Vet. benefits.
ENVIORNMENT
Both candidates have given priority to 
environmental improvements. Their mutual 
stands are best summarized by McGovern 
in 1971, Were not going to have another 
chance at replacing these resources once 
theyre destroyed...And we have a special 
obligation as stewards of what we have 
been entrusted with to take care of it, not 
to abuse it, not to destroy it, not to foul 
our own next to the point where our en
joyable life becomes impossible.
President Nixon has reiterated this view 
by launching the Legacy of Parks Pro
grams, bu setting new clean air standards 
and by increasing funds to $2.4 billion for 
the environment. In addition to supporting 
all environmental protection laws 
McGovern has proposed a federally guaran
teed right for all Americans to file anti-pol
lution suits against other citizens or govern
ment agencies.
WELFARE
President Nixons current welfare pro
gram offers a Federal Payment of $2400 
per family of four; in sharp contrast 
McGovern has proposed $400 in cash and 
food stamps.
Both candidates express the need for 
reform in the present welfare system so 
that those on welfare who are able to 
work, would.
AMERICAN INDIAN RIGHTS
Nixon favors the defense of Indian land 
and water rights. It is his hope that the 
Indians will be given more say in the De
partment of Health, Education and Welfare 
in their homelands. Since he took office 
the Bureau of Indian Affairs budget has 
increased 214 percent.
McGovern has been an ardent defender 
of the Indians rights and has supported 
major legislation on their behalf in the 
Senate citing that The chronic problem 
confronting economic developement of the 
American Indians has been the lack of 
money through either federal or private 
sources...
The above summation of the positions 
expressed during this campaign hopefully 
has informed you, or atleast organized in 
your mind, the policies of each Presidential 
Candidate. It is now up to you, the reader, 
to exercise your democratic right and vote 
on November 7.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 31, 1972Page 7
C-MU regulations prohibit use of Skibo for activities such as Navy retirees' dinners.
Such a dinner last Saturday. photo by Dan Goldstei
Ginevan Apologizes
As Navy Arrives
nr
by Debbie Siegel
The dinner scheduled on October 28 for 
a Retirees Seminar of the navy has raised 
certain questions as to the procedure which 
should occur when a non-university organi
zation wants to rent space in Skibo. There 
was a sit down luncheon which served 
1,000 people and required space in the 
Kiltie Cafe and the Kiltie Coffee House. 
During the day, the ballroom, Wherrett 
Room, and lobby were in use for meetings. 
Meal contract and cash customers were 
served breakfast and lunch in Morewood 
Cafeteria and the Thistle Room.
According to the most recent edition of 
the student handbook, a non-university or
ganization may be allowed the use of CMU 
facilities only under certain conditions 
which were never considered. The function 
must be organized primarily for profession
al or educational purposes and the request 
for the facilities must be submitted in writ
ing on a designated request from at least 30 
days prior to the event. The function can
not interrupt any of the normal activities 
on campus and when there is a question as 
to the appropriateness of the request, it 
must be referred to the Student Senate.
Mike Garl, president of the Student Sen
ate has stated, Always in the past a de
cision like this was made through student 
government because Skibo was intended to 
be a building for students. We are taking 
the matter to the Presidents Advisory 
Committee to see how the actual policy 
should be interpreted. Head of Food 
Service, Dave Allison, has said, This 
dinner should bring in about $4,000 and 
with such extra money, we can do more
Kiltie Cafe
Serving Breakfast, Lunch 
and Dinner in pleasant 
surroundings.
Welcome 
Students, Faculty 
Staff and Friends
Skibo Offices Available 
For Student Groups
A small number of offices in addition to 
deskspace and storage will become avail
able with the movement of the Bureau of 
Placements from Skibo to Warner Hall, the 
first of the year. A Student Senate commit
tee will review all applications for space 
and make their recommendations for allo
cation to the Administration.
Recognized student organizations have 
until November 10 to file for space in 
order to be considered in the first alloca
tion. Applications must include the follow
ing information and should be returned to 
Skibo 103.
Name of Organization:
Size of Membership:
Purpose and description of who is 
served by the Organization:
How often do you meet? Where?
Do you have office space now? Where? 
Is it adequate?
Do you own any equipment (desks, 
files, typewriters, ditto machine)?
What do you feel your space needs are? 
If an office or storage, estimate sq. ft. 
(Storage, Desk, Office, Meeting room, 
Lounge, Phone)
Other information you care to add.
Student Government Elections
with food service as rennovating the Tartan 
Grill and keep prices down on meal cards. 
Considerable research was done before the 
luncheon was scheduled to assure that our 
customers would receive good service that 
day. About half the amount of people eat 
here on weekends as weekdays.
Dave Ginevan, head of Food Service and 
Housing has accepted full responsibility for 
approving the decision and advocates, I 
didnt ask for Rutledges or Cyerts appro
val on the matter. I simply didnt realize 
the rule in the Handbook. Although I do 
support the decision that was made, be
cause it will benefit food service, I am 
sorry about the way it was done. The next 
time we will definitely follow the proce
dure. I was merely looking at it in terms of 
additional income.
Bill McCurdy, Director of Student Ac
tivities, has offered a few comments as to 
this policy which is in question. McCurdy 
has said, This policy has been in effect for 
about two years and is the only policy that 
came into existence from pressure by the 
Board of Trustees. Different people have 
different perceptions of what Skibo is, and 
many people from the campus community 
are already dissatisfied with the lack of 
facilities which are provided for student 
activities. The Skibo ballroom is in great 
demand by outside groups and there must 
be consideration of how it will affect the 
needs of the students. He cited an exam
ple about a black fraternity who wants to 
use Skibo for a dance. They have some 
members who attend CMU but could only 
be granted use of the Ballroom on the 
Thanksgiving weekend because the univer
sity is in recess that weekend.
continued from page 1
Petitions are available at the Skibo 
Information Desk, and must be obtained 
by anyone wishing to run for an office.
All candidates should stop at the Tartan 
Office (room 50, Skibo) between 4 and 5 
pm on Thursday, November 2, to have a 
photograph taken.
All candidates should submit to the 
Tartan NO LATER THAN 10 am, Friday, 
November 3, brief, legible answers to the 
following questions:
Student Senate Candidates:
1) What is the most crucial issue 
affecting students on this campus?
2) What will be your approach to that 
problem?
3) What is your position on raising the 
Student Activity Fee?
College Council Candidates:
1) What important issues face your
college?
2) What actions do you propose to meet 
these issues?
tributed as follows: 1 freshman, 1 soph
omore, 1 junior, 1 senior, 1 at-large. 
President, Commuter Council:
1) What goals would you work toward 
s President?
The School of Management of Syra
cuse University, Syracuse, New York, 
will be interviewing interested ap
plicants for the Masters in Business 
Administration and M.S. in Account
ing Program on Tuesday, Novem
ber 28, 1972 from 2-5 p.m. For fur
ther information inquire at the . . . 
Placement Office on campus.
Starting to get a little chilly, bunky? 
if you think it's cold now, wait until Dec.
WARM-UP IN ACAPULCO!
joinThe Great
Mexican
Escape
Carnegie-Mellon is offering all students, staff, fa
culty, and their immediate families 10 days in the 
Mexican sun.
$249
December 26 - January 4
4 nights in Acapulco
5 nights in Mexico City 
Round trip jet flight 
First class hotel accommodations 
New Year's Eve Party
. . . and more.
It s not too late to reserve your place in the sun. 
Contact Ken Sachs, 103 Skibi> or call 621 -2600, 
Ext 214, See you in Mexico.
.00

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31. 1972
Election Preview: Congress
continued from page 3
Moorhead Catarinella
effect, achieved for graduates, by such bus
ing.
There is little, if any, evidence that edu
cational achievement is affected by these 
arbitrary busing schemes and quota mixes. 
The question seems to turn more on eco
nomic integration than on racial integra
tion. But there is considerable evidence of 
self-defeating nature of these busing plans. 
I believe them to be demeaning to the 
black child and ego-inflating in the white 
child and therefore sowing the seeds ^)f 
future discord rather than of community 
tranquility. I believe we should handle the 
basic questions of employment and hous
ing rather than hoodwinking people into 
believing that integration is a cure-all.
4) The House has turned down many proposals for ending the War although it is an 
inherent right of the legislative branch to make war. If elected, what steps would you 
take either to end the war or to see it continued? What are your views on the U.S. 
involvement in Viet Nam?
ilia type engagements. We must maintain 
both our strategic and conventional strike 
force capabilities so that there are alterna
tives to nuclear confrontation. Our Viet
nam tragedy should be ended as quickly as 
possible dependent on prisoners of war and 
those missing in action. I feel the President 
is on his way to such resolution and would 
support his programs to continue in this 
direction.
5) What legislation, if any, would you propose to help in the alleviation of our 
many transportation woes?
4) 1 have consistently opposed the 
United States involvement in Southeast 
Asia for many years, including a period 
when Lyndon Johnson still was President. I 
have voted for and supported every 
realistic legislative effort to end the war.
We should never have been involved in 
Vietnam in the first place. I stated my 
position in May 1972 with paid advertise
ments in local newspapers asking Ameri
cans to back the President on Vietnam. I 
oppose the war there, but being involved, 
we must look to the best way for separa
ting ourselves from it without endangering 
world peace in other areas. 1 support the 
Presidents Vietnam policies. Congress 
should not have given up its constitutional 
responsibility and right to determine our 
involvement in wars. I would support legis
lation to prohibit presidential usurpation 
of congressional responsibilities. We 
should, when it is necessary to fight, do it 
on our terms and with our techincal capibilities rather than being trapped into guer5) I co-sponsored two bills this year 
which I believed would offer relief for our 
transportation woes. The first was the
1972 Housing and Urban Development 
Act. Title 7 of the bill called for the 
granting of operating subsidies to mass 
transit operations needing assistance. This 
was remedial and aimed at existing sys
tems, ; but a second bill which 1 co
sponsored, the Federal Highway Act of 
1972, dealt with new construction.
The original highway proposal called for 
a portion of the Highway Trust Fund to be 
used for mass transit facilities, a move I 
have long supported.
Unfortunately, both the Housing bill 
and the original Highway bill failed to pass 
the 92nd Congress.
I still hope for an active Federal 
program for Mass Transit Systems.
Books have been written on this subject. A 
paragraph or two certainly will not suffice! 
The question says that our transportation 
woes are many. This is certainly so.
The major area of need is in urban rapid 
transit and mass transit programs. I would 
support use of highway trust funds for 
such programs not only in research and 
development but also in instruction and 
operation of such systems. The concept of 
federal subsidy for capital equipment with 
operating revenues and local subsidy provi
ding operating costs seems inadequate. 
Federal revenue sharing in the actual opera
tion oT local systems, it seems to me, will 
be of increasing necessity. To attempt to 
discuss rail, river, air and international mar
itime transportation problems in such a 
short treatment seems to me to be impos
sible. However, it may suffice to point out 
that transportation is the life blood of any 
society and that federal funds must be available to do that which states and munici
palities cannot do for themselves; not as a 
crutch, but as an integral part of the plan
ning, capital equipment purchase, and 
operation.
continued on next page
TOMORROW-NOV 1 
6-7 PM 
ONWRCT
DR. RICHARD M. C YERT
*l - Will be answering
questions from 
listeners.
TUNE IN - CALL
621-9728 Ol in Morev/ood
Presented by WRCT/9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 31, 1972Page 9
.And Home Rule Study
continued from opposite page
The following is a description of the 
issues behind the Home Rule referen- dum on the November 7 ballot. It is the 
best explanation available and is condensed 
from the LEAGUE NEWS, published by 
 the Allegheny County League, of Women 
^ Voters.
Last April the State Legislature 
approved Act 62 which authorizes any 
municipality in Pennsylvania to change its 
present form of government by a referen
dum vote of its citizens. The community 
must first vote to elect a Study 
Commission of 7,9, or 11 members, and 
 then elect the commissioners on the same
. ballot. The commissioners are to be elected fPto study and report:
a) Whether or not an optional form of 
government shall be recommended;or
b) whether a home rule charter shall be 
recommended (and prepared by the study 
commission); or
c) whether either a home rule charter or 
 an optional form of government is 
. recommended.
The optional forms of government are 
outlined in the Act. These include six basic 
optional plans: three executive-council 
plans, a council-manager plan, a small 
municipality plan and an optional county 
plan.
Within each basic plan there are a 
number of sub-options to be considered by 
each study commission. The variety of the
* plans are intended to allow a municipality 
which does not choose to adopt a home 
rule charter to tailor its form of govern
ment to suit local conditions through 
adoption of an optional plan.
Since the question of election of a 
Study Commission will appear on the 
November 7 ballot for the County of 
Allegheny, the City of Pittsburgh and 
many Boroughs and Townships, citizens 
may well inquire What are the advantages 
or disadvantages of Home Rule?
The advantages will be presented first. 
Ideally, a community adopting a Home 
Rule Charter (or optional plan) would 
secure a local government more in keeping
with its local problems and goals than the 
general government now mandated by the 
state for all municipalities of its particular 
class. Outmoded or unnecessary laws 
would be taken off the books; a.more 
< representative governing body migflt be 
authorized; a better understanding of local 
government might be attained through 
open meetings to which all citizens of the 
community must be invited. Possibly, a 
more economical and efficient system 
could be devised. Community organi
zations with interested leaders might spark 
a real interest in improving their 
community, solving its weaknesses and 
obtaining their joint goals.
On the other hand, the recommen
dations of the study commission might 
result in a government that is worse than 
the present one. Important laws might be 
overlooked, persons with axes to grind 
might influence members of the study 
commission (or even be elected to the 
commission). Perhaps the most important 
question to be asked is: How* can we be 
sure the elected Study Comission is capable 
of writing a Charter, sufficiently dedicated
to devote nine months of tedious work to 
studying laws and cases, writing new laws, 
conducting open meetings-in short, 
spending nine months of intense work 
without any salary?
The Act specifies that the Study 
Commission members shall receive no com
pensation, but members may be reim
bursed for expenses. The commission may 
appoint consultants and employ clerical 
staff. (The amount allotted for these 
expenses would depend on the budget 
allocated by the governing body of the 
municipality.) Here, again, the Study 
Commission could be handicapped by 
insufficient funds for obtaining and 
summarizing information or by restriction 
as to personnel or consultants. Not many 
communities have seven, nine or eleven 
citizens who are expert in constitutional 
law willing to devote nine months of their 
time without compensation to a Study 
Commission recommendation which may
well be disapproved by the voters.
The recommendation of the Study 
Commission must be approved by the 
voters at the next election by a majority 
vote.
In case one might think that this an 
ideal opportunity to get rid of some 
bothersome law, there are limitations 
which will still be under the control of the 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
These prohibitions cover the following, 
subjects:
(1) The filing and collection of 
municipal tax claims or liens and the sale 
of real or personal property in satisfaction 
thereof.
(2) The procedures in the exercise of 
the powers of eminent domain and assess
ment of damages and benefits for property 
taken, injured or destroyed.
(3) Boundary changes of municipalities.
(4) Regulation of public schools.
(5) The registration of electors and the 
conduct of elections.
(6) The fixing of subjects of taxation.
(7) The fixing of the rates of non
property or personal taxes levied upon 
nonresidents.
(8) The assessment of real or personal 
property and persons for taxation pur
poses.
(9) Defining or providing for the punish
ment of any felony or misdemeanor.
Home Rule municipalities may set their 
own rates of taxation on property taxes 
and on personal taxes on residents and 
they may tailor their tax structures to meet 
local needs; however, the General 
Assembly retains power over the desig
nation of subjects of taxation and over 
rates of taxation on non-residents.
While home rule charters acquire resi
dual power,-the power to perform any 
function not denied by the Constitution of 
Pennsylvania or by the General Assembly, 
there are other restrictions in addition to 
those listed above.
The municipality may not engage in any 
proprietary or private business except as 
authorized by the General Assembly; it
may not diminish the rights or privileges of 
municipal employees in pension systems; it 
may not regulate the manufacture, distri
bution and sale of any foods, goods or 
services subject to existing state laws or 
regulations; it may not enact any provision 
conflicting with state laws affecting the 
rifhts, benefits or working conditions of 
municipal employees; it may not require 
businesses or employers to withhold or 
report taxes except as provided by general 
state laws; and it may not enact any 
ordinance regulating the ownership and 
sale of firearms. Any state laws that are 
uniform and applicable throughout the 
Commonwealth may not be superseded by 
ordinances of home rule municipalities.
Even if the Study Commission should 
recommend a new form of government and 
this is adopted by the voters, all elective 
officials who are in office at the time of 
the adoption of a Home Rule Charter shall 
continue in office until their terms expire. 
Transfer of any function under Home Rule 
may not become effective for at least 
fifteen months after the date of its adop
tion.
Once a new government has been 
approved by the voters, no vote can be 
taken on amending the charter for five 
years. And if the question of a study 
commission has been placed on the ballot 
and rejected, the same question may not be 
presented again for five years.
The communities must remember that 
no one can force them to adopt a new 
form of government. However, if they are 
dissatisfied with current state requirements 
which are not on the foregoing restricted 
list, then an effort might be made to bring 
the question before the people. The most 
important consideration should be whether 
they can secure dedicated, expert local 
citizens capable of writing a first-class 
charter. Only the best qualified should he 
elected, but the task might present a real 
challenge to leaders who can do such work.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972Announcements:
Classified Acte
The NATIONAL POETRY PRESS
announces its Spring Competition. Tbe 
closing date for the submission of manu
scripts by College Students is APRIL 
TENTH. Any student attending either 
junior or senior college is eligible to submit' 
his verse. There is no limitation as to form 
or theme. Shorter works are preferred by 
the Board of Judges, because of space 
limitations. Each poem must be typed or 
printed on_a separate sheet, and must bear 
the name and home address of the student, 
and the college address as well. Entrants 
should also submit name of Enlgish in
structor. Manuscripts should be sent to the 
OFFICE OF THE PRESS,, NATIONAL 
POETRY PRESS, 3210 Selby Avenue, Los 
Angeles, California,90034.
Spend 10 wonderful days in Acapulco and
Mexico City. Come see the Mexican grass. 
All for only $249. December 26 to January 
4. For application and further details con
tact Ken Sachs or ask at the Skibo Infor
mation Desk.
A NEW DAY RECORDS-The records are
finally here. If you ordered one last year or 
you wish to get one of the extras ($6), 
contact: Paul Newburg, Box 235 CMU,
682-7281. Records will be mailed out to 
adresses specified last year if records are 
not claimed.
Scotch 'n' Soda is now building up a tech
nical staff for its Spring shows. The 
following positions are open: Set Designer, 
Costume Designer, Lighting Designer, Stage 
Manager, Choreographer, Technical Direc.tor. Photographer. We also need Rehearsal 
Pianists. There will be additional technical 
interviews on Wednesday, November 1. 
Anyone who has not already interviewed 
can obtain further information at Skibo 
Information Desk.
Also, auditions for the cast of the spring 
shows will be held Friday thru Sunday, 
November 10th, 11th, and 12th.
Everynight classes on Bhakti-Yoga Bhagvad
Gita (a book of true wisdom). Spiritual 
knowledge, on how to transcend death. By 
focusing the mind on a transcendental 
vibration you can lift yourself to the stage 
of TranscendenceETERNAL TIME. Sun
day Love Feast at 2:00, 3135 Ellsworth 
Ave., Shadyside.
The CMU Women's Club will meet at 1
p.m. on Wednesday, November 1, at 15 
Roselawn Terrace to hear President 
Richard Cyert speak on "The Present and 
Future of Carnegie-Mellon University. Tea 
will be served at 1 p.m.
Michael Radulescu, brilliant organist from
Vienna, where he is professor of organ at 
the Academy of Music, will play a recital 
on the Beckerath Organ at St. Paul's 
Cathedral, Oakland, on Wednesday 
evening, November 8th, at 8:30 p.m. The 
recital is free and open to the public.
Women's Service Organization meets every
Tuesday at 5 o'clock in the WDC Roorn at 
Morewood Gardens. All campus women are 
invited to attend. New ideas for projects 
are welcome. Come and.see who we are!
The Housing Office announces the availa
bility of rental refrigerators at an excep
tional rate through the cooperation of the 
Hoover Appliance Company. Available, 
within two weeks, these deluxe 4.4 cubic 
foot copper and walnut refrigerators will 
be rented for $22.00 per semester. Stop at 
the Housing Office for details.
Daniel Ellsberg will speak in the Duquesne
Student Union Ballroom, Wednesday, 
November 1, at 8 p.m. Ellsberg is a former 
strategic analyst for Rand Corporation and 
is best known for releasing the secret 
Pentagon Papers. Tickets are $2. For 
information, phone the American Civil 
Liberties Union, 521-0170.
B'nai Brith Hillel will host a night at Rea
Coffee House-Chatham College, Sat. night, 
November 4, from 9 p.m. to 1 a.m. Enter
tainment provided by Harry Waller's AllAmerican Band. Meet students from other 
campuses in a warm informal setting. Call 
the Hillel office 621-8875 if you need 
directions.
Cafe Tel Aviv's program for November 1st
is a talk and slide show on the topic, "What 
is the Fate of our Cities?" Speaker is Mr. 
James Goldman, Architect of Urban Design 
Associates. Location, Y-IKC, 315 S. Bellefield. Lunch sold from 11:30 to 2. Speaker 
on at 12:15. Cafe Tel Aviv is a weekly 
program sponsored by B'nai Brith Hillel.
ABORTION
Information
PREGNANCY TEST AVAILABLE
An Abortion can be arranged 
within 24 hours
You can return home the same day you leave.
Call Collect 
215  735  8100
Open 7 Days A Week
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMU's Convenient Headquarters 
fot Hardware
* Desk Lamps ^ Key Service * Artist Brushes
* Hot Plates * Poster Paints * School Supplies
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 621-0923
There will be a meeting for all members
and those interested in working with PIRG 
at 7:00, Thursday, November 2; Room 57 
in the basement of Skibo.
All organized groups recognized by Stu
dent Senate must submit a list of officers 
with addresses and phone numbers to the 
Rules Committee, Skibo 103.
Student Senate Health Fund. Loans of up
to $200 dollars can be obtained for a medi
cal use including pregnancy problems. 
Please call Susan Peters, 421-5513 in 
evenings.
Finance Committee is holding a meeting of
all business managers of organizations 
funded by Student Government. If you 
cannot attend please send a representative 
. in your place.
The reason for the meeting is to discuss 
Finance Committee policy, to answer ques
tions you might have and to bridge the 
communication gap between Student Government and other campus organizations.
The meeting will be Wednesday, Novem
ber 1, 1972 at 4:30'in room 46, Skibo.
All students who applied for a Library I.D.
Card and have not yet picked it up, should 
go to the main desk of Hunt Library as 
soon as possible. These cards are necessary 
in order to take out any books from either 
campus library or to participate in campus 
elections.
Students, Faculty, everyone-Please come to
a N ixon-McGovern debate, Tuesday, 
October 31, 3-5 p.m. Public Health Audi
torium, 5th and DeSoto, across from Child
ren's Hospital. Participate-ask questions.
The Pittsburgh Poor Players will present
"One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest" by 
Ken Kesey, adapted for the stage by Dale 
Wasserman, on Nov. 2-4, 9-11, and 16-18 
at 8:30 p.m. at the University and City 
Ministries, Bellefield and Fifth Avenues in 
Oakland. Donation is $2 and $1 for 
students. Tickets are on sale at CMU, Pitt, 
Kaufmann's, CCAC Allegheny Campus 
Bookstore, and the Free People's Store in 
Oakland.
The CCCP wishes to announce that Pitt's
car pool list is out. Copies available in 
Thistle 53.
There will be a meeting of the Activities
Board Concert Committee Wednesday, 
November T, at 4:30 in Skibo room 33. 
Everyone interested please attend!
AMS, CIT, MIS UNDERGRADUATES-The
last day to drop courses (down to 36 units) 
is Friday, November 3rd. The last day to 
drop overload courses is Tuesday, Decem
ber 12th.
Want to swap 2 tickets for November 5
concert for 2 tickets to November 3 con
cert. Same program performed both dates. 
Call C-MU ext. 611 or 184 or 373-7762.
Squirrel Hill: Female Roommates share
large two bedroom apartment, $65, partial
ly furnished. 521-9026.
For sale: 2 pairs 8 Ohm speakers, $15 per
pair, 1 BSR record changer, $20, 1 skyline 
K-6 AMP, $20. Call Pat, 361-4239.
Old Master Drawings. 17th Century Italian
drawings, from $30. Professor Oppenheim, 
ext. 435.
New Legal Service for Students: If you are
a student with a legal related problem and 
need legal counseling, call Student Help 
Center, 683-2133.
Have problems? Need help? Call the Help
Center, 683-2133, for information and re
ferral for legal, medical, drug and emotion
al problems. 24 hour answering service,
683-2133.
$1.50 per typed page. Reporters for ethnic
paper needed. Info: Pass, 515 W. Main, 
Monongahela, Pa.
Draft Counselling provided by Attorney
without charge. Sponsored by B'Nai B'Rith 
Hillel Foundation. 315 S. Belief ield Av
enue, 3rd floorjEvery Tuesday evening, 7 
to 8:30 pm. 621-8875.
Compact refrigerators for rent. 4% cubic
foot or 21/2 cubic foot. Ideal for apartments 
and dormitories. Save food! Save money 
and eat better! Call 279-7951 after 7 pm 
only.
WANTED: "Selected Poetry and Prose
from Walt Whitman", Riverside edition, 
Houghton Mifflin Co. Call 621-1609 after 
10 p.m. Will pay a GOOD price-l need the 
book!!
Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For assistance and information 
on a confidential basis . . . call 
us  we will help you.
AMERICAN 
FAMILY 
PLANNING
(215) 449-2006
(215) 449-2007
(anytime)
THIS WEEK
PERSPECTIVE: CMU
features
THE PEER HELP CENTER
tune in 
call in 
Sunday at 6:10
WRt)T/9

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972-Page 11
Godspell Playwrite 
Tells of the N.Y. Stage
Teblak onGGd
/ izza, Hot Hoagies
11 pm-l am M.F, 4 pm-1 am S-S
682-8656
Also, most people dont go alone, the 
couples go in pairs. They have to make 
plans that suit everybody, and make sure 
its a show everybody wants to see before 
they spend all that money. So they read 
the reviews, and buy the tickets for a 
month and a half away. Meanwhile, no
bodys coming to see the show, and the 
backers take their money out. Thats why 
its so important to have extra money-to 
take you through the period between 
opening night and the time the audience 
starts growing. Godspell had $45,000, but 
we spent under $20,000.
Tebelak said that investors were hard to 
find. Many were looking for an intentional 
flop so that they could write it off as a tax 
loss. Most shows sell shares of the pro
duction, like stock, and each share costs 
about $5,500. Godspell got most of its 
backers at a Sunday brunch in Princeton, 
New Jersey. We got the cast to rehearse 
for about a week, said Tebelak, and then 
we all went to this big house in Princeton, 
New Jersey. After the brunch, the cast 
stood up and sang some of the songs from 
the show...we were only asking for 
$30,000, but by the end of the afternoon 
we had $45,000. ^
Tebelak was asked how he felt about 
Godspells development into a Broadway 
show, and now a movie. Tebelak said that 
the show was progressing naturally, and 
that problems had been met with and 
solved at each stage of its development. 
Tebelak said he always felt that Godspell 
was a movie, and in asking the actors to act 
largely on stage, he was asking them to 
perform as they would have in a film ver
sion. In the movie, the stage and settings 
are removed entirely, and New York City is
Jewel Walker of Drama Department, faculty 
advisor to John-Michael Tebelak, composer 
of Godspell. photo by Andrea Friedman
show, so they wouldnt get emotionally 
involved, but that that had been.impossible 
with Godspell
Then we told them it was for Godspell, 
and how their kids had seen it, and they 
knew the subject matter...We got the block 
closed off. Tebelak said later, Being in a 
show like that cant help but change your 
outlook-some little businessman will come 
to you about, say $50, and hell be 
worrying, and maybe getting an ulcer over 
his crummy $50. You dont fight back 
anymore, for something that unimportant. 
If the money is that meaningful, let him 
have it.
by Joan McClusky
Power, affluence, or extreme luck were 
practically the only ways one could get 
tickets for last Fridays performance of 
Godspell which opened its national tour 
at Pittsburghs Nixon Theatre. Godspells creator, John-Michael Tebelak was 
at CMU on Thursday, and spoke to Pro
fessor Fred Youens Technical-Production 
Class II about Godspell, its development, 
and all the problems which had to be faced 
in order to have a successful show. Tebelak 
also spoke about theatre life in general, 
especially in New York, and his im
pressions as a former CMU Drama major. 
The TARTAN was lucky enough to be 
present at this class, and the informal ques
tioning and answering carried on by 
Tebelak and the students resulted in this 
article.
Bill Burns, a graduate of CMU Graphics 
Department, is now appearing in God
spell Cast.
photo by Elliot Arons
All questions were raised by Drama 
students. The TARTAN merely listened 
and wrote. The first question was Are you 
rich? Tebelak replied that he didnt know; 
that in his second year at CMU hed seen 
friends of his, working in New York, de
stroyed one-by-one by checks. When 
Tebelak went there, he engaged the services 
of a man who handled all his finances. He 
now gets an allowance About $50 more 
than I did at CMU, and Im happy.
The Godspell Cast becomes totally involved in the Biblical interpretation.
the backdrop. Tebelak feels that this is 
another indication of the natural swing the 
show has-it started on a small stage. As the 
theatres changed, they were subsequently 
larger, and Godspell shifted without 
much difficulty. The film version was a 
culmination of all the productions, and 
New York City was the ultimate place to 
stage it.
Tebelak described the way the subject 
matter of Godspell, and its Biblical 
origin, effected the production and crew.
We only had tenpeople in the whole 
film version, but we knew it would be 
difficult, almost impossible, to keep other 
people out, especially in New York,
without sending everybody on vacation. So 
we asked the police if we could shut a 
block off, and they said, Are you crazy?
Tebelak spoke of the great loyalty the 
cast had for the show. They often worked 
for the show itself, not money, and it was 
this kind of spirit which kept the show 
going. The original 10 cast members all got 
1 percent of the stock in the show-some 
arent in it anymore, but theyll get the 
money from road productions, over seas 
tours, records, tee-shirts, everything. He 
said that often producers and backers 
would pretend to have no interest in the
The subject of money was raised again 
later regarding how much it cost to pro
duce a show like Godspell, and how the 
money was raised. It turns out that the 
film version of Godspell has a budget of 
about one million dollars, comparatively 
small for a venture of its size. Careful 
budgeting by the producers enabled the 
show to stay open in New York, even 
though it wasnt an immediate success. 
Theatre-going is not taken lightly in New 
York, and with good reason, as Tebelak 
pointed out.
Tickets in N.Y.C. are $15 a piece top 
price. 1 feel like Shylock. Then theres 
parking, and most people have a few 
drinks, and dinner, and then theres the 
baby sitter, etc. To jgp the, theatre in 
N.Y.C. costs about $1,00.00 for the 
evening. Of course, some people cut costs. 
They dont eat and they dont get a baby 
sitter. They take the subway instead of 
driving, buUhe lowest it goes is about $50.
The Godspell Cast, now playing at the Nixon Theater, sings songs by CMU graduate 
John-Michael Tebelak.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, October 31, 1972
Markovitz Invites Comparison With Opponent For 
State Legislature Seat
tlThe only way to vote intelligently is to compare the qualifications of both 
candidates and examine their stands on the issues" says legislative candidate 
Bernie Markovitz. "I invite that comparison."
This a paid political advertisement so you ''an hardly expect it to be objective. Not so. We offer as 
evidence the following article whicl. appeared in the TARTAN on October seventeenth. It states both 
candidates' responses to questions asked by the TAhTAN editors. Read it carefully - make up your own 
mind. We're confident you'll decide that Markovitz is better qualified, has a better understanding of 
problems, and will make an outstanding legislator.
by Jim Slivka
This is the first of several election symposiums the TARTAN will run. In order 
for the CMU electorate to become aware of the stands on the issues by candidates 
running in the districts which encompass the campus, the TARTAN posed several 
questions to the candidates. The following column has the responses of Dr. Ivan 11kin 
and Mr. Bernard Markovitz, both of whom are seeking the 23rd legislative seat being 
vacated by Gerald Kaufmann (D-Squirrel Hill). It should be noted that the following 
responses may be geared to the college community and are unaltered and unabridged.
Dr. Ivan Itkin (D), Nuclear scientist; Ap
plied Mathematician. Married, two child
ren. Age: 35. Education: Polytechnic Insti
tute of Brooklyn, B.Ch.E., 1956; New 
York University, M.Nuc.E., 1957; Universi
ty of Pittsburgh, Ph.D. (Math), 1964. Previ
ous political offices held: Judge of Elec
tions (19th Dist.); 14th Ward Democratic 
Chairman, City of Pittsburgh.
Member: Coalition 71 (Chairman);
14th Ward Civic Assn. (director); Group 
Against Smog and Pollution (GASP); American Nuclear Society; American Jewish 
Congress; 14th Ward Democratic Club.
Bernard Markovitz (R), Lawyer. Mar
ried. Age: 32. Education: Westminster Col
lege, 1962; Duquesne University Law 
School, 1965. Served on Executive Board,. 
14th Ward Republican Committee; Asst. 
District Attorney from Allegheny Co.; 
presently serving as Asst. Solicitor, School 
District of Pittsburgh; Appointed by Gov
ernors Shafer and Shapp to Penna. Crime 
Commission.
Military Service: U.S. Navy (Lieut.) 
1967-70; in reserves as of present. Member: 
Jewish War Vets; American Legion; Y.M. & 
W.H. Assn.; Young Lawyers of Allegheny 
Co,; Bar Assn. (Executive Committee; 
Criminal Court Bail Reform Committee). 
Legal advisor for out-patient Drug Clinic.
/) What are your feelings on the reinstitution of the death penalty: are 
you in favor of it and why or why not?
No, I dont believe the death penalty 
deters capital crimes. Also, the U.S. Su
preme Court has declared that the death 
penalty, as prescribed by present state sta
tutes, si unconstitutional. 1 would seriously 
question the constitutionality of any new 
law imposing the death penalty, for 1 be
lieve execution is a cruel and unnecessary 
punishment.
As an Assistant District Attorney, I had 
the dubious opportunity to ask a jury to 
return a death verdict. To this day I get a 
chill up my back when 1 recall how close 
they came to granting my request. Howev
er, there are specific instances when I feel 
the death penalty is necessary. An example 
of such an instance would be when a mur
derer has previously been convicted of first 
degree murder and has been sentenced to a 
life without commutation. In the event he 
murders again, society has the choice of 
eithei putting him to death or giving him a 
Carte Blanche to kill anyone and anytime 
he has an opportunity.
2) Do you favor the towering of the drinking age to 18?
Yes. Many states have for a long time 
permitted 18 year olds to drink without 
adverse effects. To confer upon 18 year 
olds the status and responsibilities of adult
hood. but deny them the privilege to drink 
is hypocrisy.
Yes. The leading scientists have had an 
opportunity to study the effects of the use 
of alcohol and generally agree that if used 
in moderation it will cause no physical or 
mental harm to the user. I feel todays 18 
year old is mature enough to deal with 
alcohol in a temperant manner.
3) Do you favor the legalization of marijuana? What are your views on this 
subject?
No. I feel that the penalties for posses
sion of marijuana should be reduced, but 
they should not be eliminated entirtly un
til we have sufficient proof that the use ot 
marijuana is not a threat to the public 
health.
The leading scientific papers discussing 
the possible harmful effects of the use of 
marijuana are in disagreement. Some say 
that its chemical content has a building 
effect in the body tissues similar to that of 
DDT. This process is said to cause damage 
to the cells of the brain. Others disagree 
saying the effects of marijuana are 
euphoric and temporary. Unless and until 
this question is decided I would not favor 
the legalization of marijuana.
4) Do you believe in the institution of rules making it easier for minority 
groups to becdfrie integrated irrMrthe basic mainstream of the institutions 
of our society?
Yes. Yes. There must be rules and regulations
assuring minority groups an equal 
opportunity to live, compete and be 
integrated into our society. 11 an indivi
dual, because he is economically or socially 
deprived, starts at a disadvantage, I lavor 
programs which will educate and train him.
1 feel it is better to help a man help himsell 
than carry another generation on our 
welfare rolls.
5) What are your feelings toward the PHEAA program? Do you feel such 
grants should include an inflation clause? How do you feel about the 
overall crisis of higher education causing many universities to consider 
dosing or becoming state-related?
Generally I approve of the program. 
However, I do not feel that the 64.5 mil
lion dollars which has been allocated out of 
a 3.6 billion dollar state budget is a tair 
share for higher education. In addition the 
scholarship aspects of the program should 
not withhold from students attending paft 
time strictly because they attend part time. 
There is a good possibility that some stu
dents cannot afford to attend full time.
The programs are funded yearly and the 
inflation problem can be handled1 using the 
true figures as opposed to approximates.
It is inconceivable that we will allow 
universities to close becuase of the finan
cial crisis and when elected education shall 
be my first priority. As a graduate of a 
private college and as an opponent of big 
government I feel there is a definite advan
tage to having some segment of our system 
of university to not be state related.
Yes, the PHEAA grants should include 
an inflation clause.
The spiralling costs of maintaining insti
tutions of higher learning in the Common
wealth is a very serious problem. We can
not allow our educational facilities to close 
for lack of funds.
Nevertheless, I do not feel that state
relatedness is the best solution to the prob
lem. Requests for state funding for the 
next fiscal year from the present three 
state related universities (Pitt, Penn State, 
and Temple) will probably exceed SI30 
million.
1 believe a better way to finance higher 
education is through a program like the 
Yale deferred tuition plan. Under such a 
program, the student would pay only that 
protion of the tuition which he can afford, 
the rest being paid out of a revolving fund.
After leaving school, the student would 
repay the fund in installments depending 
upon the size of his income. In this way, 
the fund can ultimately become self-revol
ving with the money coming in from past 
debts being used to pay the costs of new 
loans.
6) How do you feel about the abortion issue?
I favor legalizing medically-safe abor
tion. I do not believe a woman wishes to 
have an abortion just tor the sake of having 
an abortion. Consequently, I feel that the 
emphasis on this entire issue has been mis
directed. Our major concern should not be 
whether or not to permit abortions, but 
rather the prevention of unwanted preg
nancies. If we can accomplish this goal, 
then abortion will no longer be an issue.
On June 22, 1972, a bill was enacted 
into law dealing directly with the abortion 
issue. Therefore, practically speaking, the 
Legislature has spoken and this issue has 
been determined. Anyone who promises 
that he will change this law in the immedi
ate future is either naive or not truly 
speaking his mind. I do feel this Act is 
overly restrictive and pledge to offer 
amendments thereto which may be neces
sary to save the life and/or health of the 
mother.
Vote on Nov. 7th. Elect MARKOVITZ as your State Legislator.
P. S. - If you won t be voting in this legislative district, compare the candidates in your own district Vote 
for the better qualified man or woman. After all, Bernie Marluirfti is going to need help in Harrislwrg

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12THE TARTANTuesday, October 31, 1972
Markovitz Invites Comparison With Opponent For 
State Legislature Seat
The only way to vote intelligently is to compare the qualifications of both 
candidates and examine their stands on the issues" says legislative candidate 
3ernie Markovitz. "I invite that comparison.'1
rhis a paid political advertisement so you can hardly expect it to be objective. Not so. We offer as 
vidence the following article whic!. appeared in the TARTAN on October seventeenth. It states both 
candidates' responses to questions asked by the TARTAN editors. Read it carefully - make up your own 
mind. We're confident you'll decide that Markovitz is better qualified, has a better understanding of 
aroblems, and will make an outstanding legislator.
by Jim Slivka
This is the first of several election symposiums the TARTAN will run. In order 
for the CMU electorate to become aware of the stands on the issues by candidates 
running in the districts which encompass the campus, the TARTAN posed several 
questions to the candidates. The following column has the responses of Dr. Ivan It kin 
and Mr. Bernard Markovitz, both of whom are seeking the 23rd legislative seat being 
vacated by Gerald Kaufmann (D-Squirrel Hill). It should be noted that the following 
responses may be geared to the college community and are unaltered and unabridged.
Dr. Ivan Itkin (D), Nuclear scientist; Ap
plied Mathematician. Married, two child
ren. Age: 35. Education: Polytechnic Insti
tute of Brooklyn, B.Ch.E., 1956; New 
York University, M.Nuc.E., 1957; Universi
ty of Pittsburgh, Ph.D. (Math), 1964. Previ
ous political offices held: Judge of Elec
tions (19th Dist.); 14th Ward Democratic 
Chairman, City of Pittsburgh.
Member: Coalition 71 (Chairman);
14th Ward Civic Assn. (director); Group 
Against Smog and Pollution (GASP); American Nuclear Society; American Jewish 
Congress; 14th Ward Democratic Club.
Bernard Markovitz (R), Lawyer. Mar
ried. Age: 32. Education: Westminster Col
lege, 1962; Duquesne University Law 
School, 1965. Served on Executive Board,. 
14th Ward Republican Committee; Asst. 
District Attorney from Allegheny Co.; 
presently serving as Asst. Solicitor, School 
District of Pittsburgh; Appointed by Gov
ernors Shafer and Shapp to Penna. Crime 
Commission.
Military Service: U.S. Navy (Lieut.) 
1967-70; in reserves as of present. Member: 
Jewish War Vets; American Legion; Y.M. & 
W.H. Assn.; Young Lawyers of Allegheny 
Co,; Bar Assn. (Executive Committee; 
Criminal Court Bail Reform Committee). 
Legal advisor for out-patient Drug Clinic.
/) What are your feelings on the reinstitution of the death penalty: are 
you in favor of it and why or why not?
No, I dont believe the death penalty 
deters capital crimes. Also, the U.S. Su
preme Court has declared that the death 
penalty, as prescribed by present state sta
tutes, si unconstitutional. I would seriously 
question the constitutionality of any new 
law imposing the death penalty, for 1 be
lieve execution is a cruel and unnecessary 
punishment.
As an Assistant District Attorney, 1 had 
the dubious opportunity to ask a jury to 
return a death verdict. To this day I get a 
chill up my back when I recall how close 
they came to granting my request. Howev
er, there are specific instances when I feel 
the death penalty is necessary. An example 
of such an instance would be when a mur
derer has previously been convicted of first 
degree murder and has been sentenced to a 
life without commutation. In the event he 
murders again, society has the choice of 
eithei putting him to death or giving him a 
Carte Blanche to kill anyone and anytime 
he has an opportunity.
2) Do you favor the lowering of the drinking age to 18?
Yes. Many states have for a long time 
permitted 18 year olds to drink without 
adverse effects. To confer upon 18 year 
olds the status and responsibilities of adult
hood. but deny them the privilege to drink 
is hypocrisy.
Yes. The leading scientists have had an 
opportunity to study the effects of the use 
of alcohol and generally agree that if used 
in moderation it will cause no physical or 
mental harm to the user. 1 feel todays 18 
year old is mature enough to deal with 
alcohol in a temperant manner.
3) Do you favor the legalization of marijuana? What are your views on this 
subject?
No. I feel that the penalties for posses
sion of marijuana should be reduced, but 
they should not be eliminated entirely un
til we have sufficient proof that the use ot
marijuana
health.
is not a threat to the public
The leading scientific papers discussing 
the possible harmful effects of the use of 
marijuana are in disagreement. Some say 
that its chemical content has a building 
effect in the body tissues similar to that of 
DDT. This process is said to cause damage 
to the cells of the brain. Others disagree 
saying the effects of marijuana are 
euphoric and temporary. Unless and until 
this question is decided I would not favor 
the legalization of marijuana.
4) Do you believe in the institution of rules making it easier for minority 
groups to becdfrie integrated irrtd'the basic mainstream of the institutions 
of our society\?
Yes. Yes. There must be rules and regulations
assuring minority groups an equal 
opportunity to iive, compete and be 
integrated into our society. If an indivi
dual, because he is economically or socially 
deprived, starts at a disadvantage, I favor 
programs which will educate and train him.
1 feel it is better to help a man help himselt 
than carry another generation on our 
welfare rolls.
5) What are your feelings toward the PHEAA program? Do you feel such 
grants should include an inflation clause? How do you feel about the 
overall crisis of higher education causing many universities to consider 
dosing or becoming state-related?
Yes, the PHEAA grants should include 
an inflation clause.
The spiralling costs of maintaining insti
tutions of higher learning in the Common
wealth is a very serious problem. We can
not allow our educational facilities to close 
for lack of funds.
Nevertheless, I do not feel that state
relatedness is the best solution to the prob
lem. Requests for state funding for the 
next fiscal year from the present three 
state related universities (Pitt, Penn State, 
and Temple) will probably exceed SI30 
million.
I believe a better way to finance higher 
education is through a program like the 
Yale deferred tuition plan. Under such a 
program, the student would pay only that 
protion of the tuition which he can afford, 
the rest being paid out of a revolving fund.
After leaving school, the student would 
repay the fund in installments depending 
upon the size of his income. In this way, 
the fund can ultimately become self-revol
ving with the money coming in from past 
debts being used to pay the costs of new 
loans.
6) How do you feel about the abortion issue?
Generally 1 approve of the program. 
However, I do not feel that the 64.5 mil
lion dollars which has been allocated out of 
a 3.6 billion dollar state budget is a fair 
share for higher education. In addition the 
scholarship aspects of the program should 
not withhold from students attending paft 
time strictly because they attend part time. 
There is a good possibility that some stu
dents cannot afford to attend full time.
The programs are funded yearly and the 
inflation problem can be handled1 using the 
true figures as opposed to approximates.
It is inconceivable that we will allow 
universities to close becuase of the finan
cial crisis and when elected education shall 
be my first priority. As a graduate of a 
private college and as an opponent of big 
government I feel there is a definite advan
tage to having some segment of our system 
of university to not be state related.
1 favor legalizing medically-safe abor
tion. 1 do not believe a woman wishes to 
have an abortion just for the sake of having 
an abortion. Consequently, I feel that the 
emphasis on this entire issue has been mis
directed. Our major concern should not be 
whether or not to permit abortions, but 
rather the prevention of unwanted preg
nancies. If we can accomplish this goal, 
then abortion will no longer be an issue.
On June 22, 1972, a bill was enacted 
into law dealing directly with the abortion 
issue. Therefore, practically speaking, the 
Legislature has spoken and this issue has 
been determined. Anyone who promises 
that he will change this law in the immedi
ate future is either naive or not truly 
speaking his mind. 1 do feel this Act is 
overly restrictive and pledge to offer 
amendments thereto which may be neces
sary to save the life and/or health of the 
mother.
/ote on Nov. 7th. Elect MARKOVITZ as your State Legislator.
S. ~ If you won t be voting in this legislative district, compare the candidates in your own district. Vote 
for the better qualified man or woman. After all, Bernie Markoefti is going to need help in HarrisJwrg

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 31, 1972-Page 13
Corporation Could Make 
Student Groups Independent
Procedures Announced 
For Bookstore Rebates
by Chris Brown
The Carnegie-Mellon Student Govern
ment Corporation may be just the long 
over-due catalyst needed to improve Stu
dent Government effectiveness. As a cor
poration, independent of University policy,
students can exercise their own censorship 
on the TARTAN, the Activities Board can 
make legal contracts with bands and 
speakers, and even start student-run stores. 
It would also enable WRCT to go FM since 
only a corporation can hold an FM license. 
Being non-profit and entirely run by the 
Student Senate it could provide the 
flexibility and financial potential the badly 
under-funded Student Government needs.
The corporation would hire its own 
Board of Directors, a trained professional 
staff responr jle for coordinating and bud
geting student activities. It is controlled 
directly by the Student Senate which has 
power of veto. As a legal body it is liable 
and in turn can sue. Censorship problems 
such as those with past TARTANS and 
yearbooks could avoided. More impor
tantly it can make money. Leslie Bram, 
chairwoman of the Student Senate, says 
that the present Student Government cant 
continue to function on the allocated 
budget. She cites the Student Senate which 
has been ljmping along on the same $10 fee 
(inclusive in tuition) for five years. The 
Activities Board budget, amounts to some 
$70,000 a year, compared to Acitivities 
budgets of two and three hundred
Jack Flaherty,' lecturer at Gft/JU, worked with 
Leslie Bram and Mike Garl to incorporate Stu
dent Government. ,photo by John Shettel
thousand dollars at Universities of com
parable size. A recent move for referendum 
to raise the fee to $15 with the tuition at 
$1240 was met with resistance by the 
university which wants the $15 hike main
taining the tuition at $1250, in keeping 
with Cyerts policy of non-university 
organizations paying for themselves. Miss 
Bram is convinced this is the first step: that 
if Student Government is to remain viable 
it must be supported by the students. All 
the corporation means is that the potential 
is there but unfortunately so is the 
apathy.
The Book Store will be distributing cash 
rebates to students beginning Monday, 
November 27, through Friday, December
15. The rebate will be five per cent on text
Dorms Being 
Landscaped
Henry Collins
A MDC sponsored landscaping project 
in the process of being completed in the 
Hill Dorm area will have, the effects of 
adding greenery to Scobell Hall and other 
dorms and paritally hiding Donner, 
according to one of the proponents of the 
project, Jeff Kippax.
Kippax, now a sophomore Design 
major, conceived the plan last fall, because 
he felt that a number of buildings on cam
pus, particularly the older ones, could 
benefit from landscaping improvements. 
The admninstration never acted on the sug
gestion, but with the help of the new student as customer attitude inspired by 
Dr. Rutledge, this year permission was re
ceived from the school to begin the pro
ject, work on which began last week.
Financial support for the project came 
principally from MDC, which appropriated 
$500 for the improvements after Kippax, 
Dave Seldon, Carol Critchlow and other 
students gave a detailed presentation of the 
project. Frank Colosimo gave his support 
to the project, and Frank Montag assisted 
in the realization of the project. Some sev
enty trees and bushes will be planted.
book purchases made by students this fall 
semester.
In order to receive the rebate each 
student must present his or her cash 
register receipts at Room 145 Baker Hall, 
between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.
Personnel stationed there will complete 
a rebate form for each student,using the 
cash register receipts as the basis for the 
five per cent computation. Students may 
then proceed to the Book Store to collect 
the cash due. The initial processing of the 
rebate forms will take place in Baker Hall 
145 to avoid overcrowding in the Book. 
Store which might tend to disrupt normal 
operations. As soon as it is evident the 
operation can be handled in the Book 
Store, the function will be performed 
there. The actual payout of cash there will 
be rapid.
As pointed out from the beginning of 
the fall term, payment of rebates will be 
made on cash register receipts for text 
book purchases only, with no exceptions. 
Rebates will be made for three weeks 
through December 15, with all unclaimed 
rebates as of this date to be turned over to 
the Student Government.
Rebates will not be processed during the 
Store's evening or Saturday hours except 
for a small group of students who attend 
evening classes only. These students will be 
notified of their procedure in a separate 
communication.
UCTION OF FOSSIL FUELED & NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS
r.Tlfe
For more information re: campus in^ terviews contact the placement 
office or write directly to: Mr. Edward 
J. Devin, Stone t Webster Engineering 
Corporation, P.O. Box 2325, Boston, 
Mass. 02107
We are an equal opportunity employer.
For the Following Disciplines:
MECHANICAL 
ELECTRICAL 
CIVIL
ENVIRONMENTAL 
CHEMICAL 
NUCLEAR 
CONSTRUCTION
Stone & Webster Engineering builds Professional Engineers. 
Join the pioneer and leader in the field of nuclear and fossil 
fueled power generation. Youll find a challenging opportunity 
at Stone & Webster to grow professionally day by day. Youll be 
working on projects of major scope, solving the nations 
increasing energy requirements. Youll be part of a team that 
has made environmental engineering an essential part of its 
activities from preliminary planning to detailed engineering.
Our representatives will be on campus
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 15th
A. STONE & WEBSTER
ENGINEERING CORPORATION
NEW YORK
LONDON
BOSTONCHICAGOHOUSTON
PARISTHE HAGUE
LOS ANGELES 
TORONTO

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972
continued from page 1 
once said that the trouble with most 
education is that it teaches what other 
people have done and teaches you to copy 
them. It teaches you to exercise pseudo
judgement, not real judgement."
In World War II he received the Presi
dential Certificate of Merit for outstanding 
participation in the war effort. He was 
voted the outstanding young electrical 
engineer in the U.S. in 1946 by Eta Kappa 
Nu, honorary electrical eggineering 
fraternity, and in 1957 he was named Pitts
burghs man of the year in engineering.
Dr. Williams received his B.E. and Ph.D. 
degrees in electrical engineering from Yale 
University in 1936 and 1939.
He served the American government as a 
consultant in Germany, Italy, Greece, 
Turkey and Iran. He was a member of
several committees of the National Aero
nautics and Space Administration and was 
a consultant to several universities and 
some 20 corporations, including U.S. Steel, 
Gulf Oil and IBM.
Professor Williams headed the Insitute 
of Electrical Engineering at Pennsylvania 
State University from 1939 to 1942. He 
worked from 1937 to 1939 in the Institute 
of Electricity at New Haven College.
In 1934 he was captain of the S.S. 
Periwinkle, a showboat, and was also an, 
actor for a time. In addition, he was an 
accomplished organist.
He was on the board of NARDA Micro
wave Corp. and Microwave Systems Cor
poration. Dr. Williams was a past chairman 
of the Pittsburgh Section of the Institute 
of Radio Engineers.
He was a member of the Institute of 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, the 
American Society for Engineeering Edu
cation, the American Association for the
Williams
iite
I couldn't get King Kong to give me 
a whirl. But when I turned on to 
Akadama Plum (thelip-smacking grape 
wine with the natural plum flavor) all 
the College Men started turmng on to 
me. Thank you. Akadama Plum, for 
turning the prom glom into the bees
Akadama PlumThe toast of the campus.
imported by Suntory International. Los Angeles. Calif.
Dr. Everad Williams, former head of 
Electrical Engineering.
Advancement of Science, and the National 
Society for Programmed Instruction.
Thefts
continued from page 1
Registration* and engraving will take 
place (tentatively but most probably) Wed
nesday, November 1, between 10 a.m. and 
3 p.m. in the Morewood Gardens lobby, 
Thursday, November 9, in the Hamerschlag 
Hall lobby, and Tuesday, November 14, in 
the Donner Hall lobby.
Have Vou Seen It??
Have Vou Tried It??
KILTIE CAFE
ACTIVITIES BOARD 
presentsEMILE de ANTONIOS
ILLHOUSE
Tues., Wed., and Thurs., Oct. 31 - Nov. 2
ROOM 46 SKI BO  8 P.M.
ATheCCearn gi--
VINCENT CANBY, N. Y. TIMES: .. . superior fiction, as implacable as 'An American Tragedy, as mysterious as You Cant Go Home Again, as funny as Why Are We in Viet Nam? and as banal as Main Street.
ANDY WARHOL: Tell de Antonio to say whatever he likes about the picture. Its great. 
JULES FEIFFER: A zapped portrait of Nixon from Voorhis to Vietnam: part camp, part Horatio Alger 
run amuck-the dark side of the American dream.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, October 31, 1972Page 15.
ENTERTAINMENT
Record Review
Country Music Influences "Commander Cody"
shield, which is self-explanatory, and an 
old dance tune, Diggy Liggy Lo, 
featuring some very fine fiddle work by 
Andy Stein. Now we come to the real 
tear-jerker of the album, Mama Hatedby Steve PerkinsDiesels. Its the story of a boys truckCountry music is one of the oldest indrWer fa'her Wh deSert$ hiS famU* a"d fluences in rock an roll. In fact it mieht ^bsequentiy destroys his wife with grief, 
even be said that rock an roll orfcinallv The situation is a bil ver-dramatized, but
developed as the result of a crossyoU haVe 10 remember ,hat this is a ^ 
fertilization of country music and rhythm meaninSful kind of ntimentaBty for a lot
and blues. Many of the rockers of the of people and beSideS ilS n0t half' aS 
fifties were essentially country musiciansBill Haley, Carl Perkins, Jerry Lee Lewis, 
and most notably, Elvis Presley. It is not 
surprising then, in view of the back to the 
roots trend in rock music we are currently 
expert cing, that country influences 
should again be brought out into the open.
Bob Dylan and such California groups as 
the Byrds and the Greatful Dead have been 
leaning more and more towards country 
sounds the last few years. And of course, 
the Band never left the country rock 
tradition of the fifties-they just got good 
and got famous.
The only young long-haired group to 
emerge that really plays straight country 
music in an authentic Nashville style is 
Commander Cody and the Lost Planet Air
men. To be sure, Commander Codys music 
has heavy doses of rock an roll and 
elements of blues. The main difference is 
the guitar style and the subject matter of 
the songs.
Commander Codys lyrics have none of 
the mystical smybolism of the Dead and 
dont spin yarns of the Old West like the 
New Riders of the Purple Sage. They deal 
instead with the everyday life of the 
American workingman, which is primarily 
the stuff of which country music is made.
Bill Kirchen, the groups lead guitarist, 
is about the only one of the young country 
rock guitarists who could walk into any 
studio in Nashville and be hired for a 
session.
The groups second album, called Hot 
licks, Cold Steel and Truckers Favorites 
pushed this workingman theme one step 
further and explores the truck driver sub
culture, sometimes with tongue in cheek 
and sometimes quite seriously. The album 
begins with Truck Stop Rock, a tight 
little rock an roll thing, which is soon 
followed by Truck Drivin Man a quick
paced country song in which Fender-picker 
Kirchen and pedal steel man Bobby Blue
Black trade some very tasty licks. Rip It 
Up is a vintage rocker; Craving Your 
Love is a lustful ballad in which Black 
uses his steel guitar chordally and creates 
a harmonic effect a lot like a horn section 
in a blues band. Then comes an old blues 
number called It Should Have Been Me 
which is a humorous story of a young 
mans frustrating encounters with women.
Watch My .38 is sort of a boogie-jam
corny as some of the atrocious things the album and it becomes evident that 
Johnny Cash has been coming up with Commander Cody and the Lost Planet
lately. And, its certainly no worse than Airmen will probably become one of the
 Love Story. The band winds up the most important groups in country rock 
album with the Little Richard classic music. In addition, this album gives you an 
Tutti Frutti, which unfortunately they insight into the life style of the truckdo a rather sloppy job on. Enough said drivers, a large class of workingmen in
about that. America you probably hadnt given much
So there you have it. BilK Kirchens thought to before. Culturally, listening to 
guitar work, Commander Codys piano, Hot Licks, Cold Steel and Truckers 
Bobby Blacks pedal steel and Andy Steins Favorites is a lot like hanging around 
fiddle and sax are outstanding throughout Diner in Murrysville, Pa.
BmlUANTANARchy.
Its not music to weep, sigh or sniffle to. "
But its not merely happy-happy music either.
It is madly exhilarating, mind-blowing" music; 
a kind of planned, brilliant anarchy.
What a collection:
Loussier himself, like a restless anarchistic keyboard Picasso; 
bassist Pierre Michelot who has played with everyone; 
and drummer Christian Garros who roams at ease 
through the gamut of exotic percussionisms.
Within Bach's strong, beautifully mobile, familiar progressions
(he lived in an age of improvisation
and was himself one of its greatest exponents)
the three of them set up a fantastic firework display.
The Jacques Loussier Trio plays at playing music the way one 
imagines the gods playing at omnipotence.
YOU CANNOT AFFORD TO MISS THEM!
Meredith Oakes' concert review in the Sydney Australia DAILY TELEGRAPH (6/5/69)
seff associates limited presents
PUyBAcIiwith the
TheCMUS taMSSfUo
STEINWAY ARTIST 
LONDON RECORDS
f\
 JACQUES LOUSSIE^ 
PIERRE MICHELOT * 
CHRISTIAN GARAoSl.
RETURN ENGAGEMENT 
Presented by the Activities Board, Carnegie Mellon University
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 1972-8:30 P.M.
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALL 
General Public  $3.00 Students  $200
Tickets Available at: CMU's Skibo, Pitt, Duquesne & Kaufman's 
For further Information, call 687-1662
thing and is one of the poorer cuts on the 
album. It doesnt come off for lack ot 
variety and lack of intensity. One gets the 
impression that the J. Geils Band could 
have Hone this sone ten times better.
The second side starts out with Semi 
Truck whose chorus sort of sums up the 
whole album: Well here I sit, all alone 
with a broken heart/Just took three 
bennies and my semi-truck wont start. 
Next is Kentucky Hills of Tennessee, 
one of those nostalgic memories-of-theold-homestead type songs, a thing called 
Looking at the World Through a Wind---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972
Drama
Comedy At Playhouse 
Better Taken Seriously
by Nonie Dempsey
Last Saturday night the 28th, I was 
once again sitting in the Pittsburgh Play
houses Craft Avenue Theatre, looking for
ward to the second production of the sea
son. How the Other Half Loves is billed 
as an inventive, outrageous, British com
edy; currently playing in London to Stan
ding Room Only Crowds. Autumn Re
vival of Dumb Summer Stock would have 
been a much more appropriate description; 
needless to say there were no seating 
problems.
Taken seriously, the comedy was a dis
turbing comment on the modern institu
tion of marriage, taken humorously, well; 
that was difficult. By far, the most enter
taining aspect of the play arose out of its 
unconventional staging. All action took 
place in the living rooms of the Fosters and 
the Phillipses; a rather tricky arrangement 
as the rooms coincided, every other wall 
segment belonging to a different house. 
The contrast in furniture, draperies, door
ways, etc. was sufficiently established so 
that the audience was never confused, only
amused at an orange umbroller beside an 
elegant blue and white sofa, and two simul
taneous dinner parties with different hosts 
and similar guests at what looked to be one 
strangely put together table.
Beyond the script itself, Joe Endes and 
Celia Howard gave successfully comic per
formances as the fat middle-aged business 
executive Foster and his glamorous wife. 
Yet both Barbara Lynn Block and Danial 
Mooney, after showing great promise in the 
season opener, Fiddler on the Roof were 
disappointingly weak as the vocal young 
Phillipses in the midst of a marital crisis.
The stars of the evening turned out to 
be the two non-Equity members of the 
cast, Deborah Brown and Richard Rauh as 
the pitifully out-of-it couple, Mary and Wil
liam Detweiler. They were obviously well 
acquainted with and enjoying their roles 
and it payed off. The audience was not 
merely applauding Ms. Browns knee-length 
purple suit and orthopedic shoes.
How the Other Half Loves directed 
by Tom Thomas, will continue its run 
through November 5. For imformation, 
call 621-4445.
Coffee house
C-MU Becoming 
True Night Spot
by Arnie Karr
Carnegie-Mellon University may yet 
establish a reputation as the weekend night 
spot of Pittsburgh. On Friday night, there 
was boogying in the ballroom and 
mellowing in the Wherret Room. The 
Ballroom crowd had the blues and the 
Wherret group had the mellows. One had 
Daze; the other Sigidi.
Before 1 begin this short article, Ill do 
some heavy padding. The other day I heard 
the worst pu Ive ever come across. 
Someone commented that if Rod Stewart 
ever performed at C-MU, He could play 
that little room next to the information 
desk in Skibo and sing You Wherret 
Well, And if he doesnt, Maggie may. (End 
of padding)
Sigidi played to two fairly crowded 
audiences, and held them in Porter Hall. 
The publicity on this group had been very 
vague. Sigidi was given credit for playing 
everything from Enrico Caruso to African 
Tribal music. What they did play was
pretty nice, but Fire and Rain cannot be 
compared to anything by Osibisa. The 
music was OK, but it lacked the versatility 
promised. The female vocalist was pleasant. 
These days, though,
I prefer earth-shakers to pleasures.
Whoever organized the concert had a 
fairly good idea. BECKET, a C-MU group 
first heard on campus at the Spencer Davis 
concert a few weeks ago, was inserted 
between the two Sigidi sets. A lot of the 
crowd was either on its way in or out, but 
the goup, led by the fine songwriting, 
singing and guitar playing of Phil Buller 
and Steve Mullaney, still managed to do a 
good setin spite of the oscilating audience 
and the sub-standard PA system. The group 
is espected to do a few campus dates in the 
near future. Dont miss them. They are a 
most stimulating combo. And I say so.with 
no Bias.
So, the campus continues to mellow and 
move. You'll have to excuse me now. I 
have to go boogy.
The Activities Board Presents:
ROMAN POLANSKI 
MINI-FESTIVAL
PKA Wins Fourth Straight Championship
The IM football season came to an .end 
last Fricfay with the outcome essentially a 
repeat of the last three years. It was no 
surprise to anyone when the jubillant 
PKAs came running off the field after 
winning the last and most important game 
of the IM football season.
The semi-finals began on Wednesday 
and pited Wild Bunch against BTP and 
PKA against Salt and Pepper. In the first 
game, Wild Bunch surprised the strong BTP 
defense with an array of reverses and 
double passes. Apparently unprepared for 
such antics, the BTP team fell to their first 
defeat of the season which, for the second 
year in a row, kept them from reaching the 
finals. The final score read Wild Bunch 41, 
BTP 35.
In the second semi-final game the action
photo by Nick Lardas 
The "Big B", Barny Benjamin, 
who led PKA to its fourth 
straight IM champion ship, 32-28 
was much the same as last years finals. 
Both teams played well but Salt and 
Pepper just couldnt contain PKAs ex
plosive offense and lost the game 42-30. 
This set the stage for Fridays final game 
between PKA and Wild Bunch.
The game began as quite an even match 
as each team exchanged touchdown in the 
initial quarter. From then on however, it 
was PKAs as they never once relinquished 
the lead. PKA essentially had complete
control of the second half as a final touch
down by Wild Bunch in the closing seconds 
served only to make the score respectable. 
When the clock did run out, the score read 
PKA 32, Wild Bunch 28.
This championship game was a classic 
example of how important the cohesion 
and organization of a fraternity team can 
be. PKA, behind the strong leadership of 
Barry Benjamin, simply overwhelmed a 
much bigger and faster Wild Bunch team. 
They accomplished this not through brute 
force, but by playing together as a team. 
And after experiencing a Wild Bunch insti
gated fight following the game, it would 
appear that many people finally realized 
that fraternity teams, although referred to 
as a bunch of rowdies, at least know that 
they are on the IM field to play football.
In the minor leagues, the semi-final 
games left Oakland As Pendora Heights 
and KS to play the final game of the season 
on Friday. The outcome of this game was 
in question until the final seconds ticked 
away. But after a last futile attempt by the 
Oak As team to score the winning touch
down from the 4 yard line, KS came off 
the winner 19-16 despite a fine perfor
mance by the Oak As freshman quarter
back, John Lankford.
Last week while Phi Kappa Theta easily 
defeated Tau Delta Phi in its semi-finals 
tennis match, Sigma Nu was having trouble 
in its match with the Tennis Bs. The 
number two singles went to Sigma Nu, 6-3, 
6-3, but the doubles was a very tight 
match, which the Tennis Bs nearly won. 
After dropping the first set, Sigma Nu 
came back to win the next two sets, 5-7, 
6-4, 6-4, and thereby earn the right to play 
Phi Kappa Theta in finals. In the Final 
match, the number one singles was a 
meeting of the two best singles players in 
the intramurals this year. Dave Ehret of Phi 
Kappa Theta proved to be the better of the 
two as he defeated Steve Hoysan, 6-4, 6-2. 
Sigma Nu then tied the match by capturing 
the number two singles 6-4, 6-2. Ehret then 
teamed with Steve Baker to play Terry 
Karda and Pete Hoysan in the deciding 
doubles match. After completely 
continued on page 17, column 2
I
Repulsion Nov. 3  7:00 and 9:15 
Cut-de-Sac Nov. 5  7:00 and 9:15
I
\
photo by Henry Collins
The Wild Bunch defense put the heat on Beta quarterback Ralph Hershberger in 
winning their semi-final game, 41-35.
DOHERTY HALL 2210 
50< with AB Card
PREGNANT?  Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL: FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Call: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972-Page 17
Soccer Team Thumps Bethany 
Set For Pac Championship
continued from page 16 
dominating the first set, 6-0, Phi Kappa 
Theta then lost a close second set, 4-6. But, 
| Ehret and Baker stopped the Sigma Nu 
> momentum by winning the last set, 6-4, 
and the intramural tennis championship.
On Tuesday, October 24, the intramural 
program held its first cross-country meet 
in Schenley Park. Ed Schenk of Pi Kappa 
Alpha and Brian Aufderheid of the Chem 
Grads took the lead early and finished first 
and second respectively. Behind them, Pete 
) Hoysan of Sigma Nu finished a distant
* third. The Chem Grads won the meet with 
a low team total of 18 points. An interes
ting note is that all of the 15 runners to 
start the 1.9 mile race also finished.
Last week the waterpolo champion was 
, also decided as the Dolphins outscored the 
defending champion Beta Theta Pi by one 
goal for the second time to account for 
I second-place Betas only defeats. The Beta 
^ team outplayed the Dolphins but failed to 
score as many goals.
Rosters for intramural chess are due 
Tuesday, October 31.
Basketball tryouts and practice begin on
Wednesday, November 1 at 4:30 in the 
Gym. Anyone interested who has not yet 
gotten a physical should see Coach Rudy 
! Yaksich in the Gym Room 102, as soon as 
possible.
The Tartan soccer team went 50-50 this 
week, but the split neednt upset the 
ardent fans. Defeated was conference 
leader Bethany in a rugged, hot-tempered 
contest, and our loss came at the hands of 
undefeated Alliance College, who have 
nothing to with the PAC.
Last Tuesdays 2-1 victory over Bethany 
had an identical final score to that of the 
W&J match, but there was a variation in 
reaching it. CMU jumped to a two goal 
advantage in the first half, and no last 
minute heroics were needed to win-only a 
durable defense was called for. The 
Tartans goals were quite unspectacular, 
actually; the first was off the back of a 
Bethany defender, and the second kicked 
in by Nazir Sunderji after the goalie 
bobbled the ball. The visitors closed the 
gap with a long scoring shot off the foot of 
Frank Cristy. They released a mosi vicious 
onslaught in the final period, with many 
shots narrowly missing, and tempers flared 
on the field and on the sidelines. At the 
final horn there seemed to be good fellings 
between the victors and the vanquished,
however, and the Tartans were half a game 
out of first place. Bethanys conference 
season was finished at 5-1-1, and the Plaid 
had an all-or-nothing contest with 
Allegheny two weeks away.
That impending glorious occasion must 
have occupied our teams minds more than 
the situation at hand on Saturday. The 
Tartans did not appear to be playing up to 
par in the first half (the worst first half of 
the season, some said) and turned on the 
steam too late. We fell 2-0to a fine Alliance 
ball club, the game being 
dominated,despite a warning and a 
seemingly serious injury, by Leo Chesson 
who scored a head-in on a corner kick from 
Wilson in the first half and was assisted on 
his second by Penikowski in the second.
Everything our team has played for is 
wrapped up in next Saturdays game with 
Allegheny. The third digit in Bethanys 
record is a result of the clash between these 
teams, so the Tartans know what to 
expect. So should their fans-only the 
Presidents Athletic Conference 
Championship--and the players are looking 
forward to, and ought to get, a large 
supporting crowd ready with the gratitude 
to a title-winning team from CMU.
Cross-Country Falls, 
But Preps for Finals
by D.R. Sullivan
I suppose defeat makes a better man out 
of one by tempering him to all the races 
hell face during life. Yet defeat has been 
somewhat foreign to us this season. After 
defeating St. Vincent and Westminster 
17-42 and 22-33 respectively, we faced 
Hiram and Allegheny. Last week we faced 
Hiram and our toughest apponent at that 
time, Allegheny. Hirams meandering
5-mile course took us through some lovely 
countryside and mud, but when it was 
over, Kloes, McKay, Dewey, Hawkins, 
Hyatt, Bingham, Sullivan, Silvis and Eberle 
brought home two more victories, 25-31 
vs. Allegheny and 18-39 vs. Hiram.
Saturday, we faced and raced Case. In 
spite of Kloes, Dewey, McKay, Hawkins 
and Binghams efforts we were defeated 
24-32, thus ending our dual season at 11-2.
Though we were defeated, were far 
from being beaten. The P.A.C. champion
ship rests on the one race this Saturday, 
and a championship race is a great deal 
different from any other. We know what 
we can do. and now we intend to do it.
Gridders Stage Comeback, Win 18-0
photo by Henry Collins
Birthday boy Bob Curtis (40) turns the corner on his way to *
40 yard touchdown, only to have it nullified by a penalty.
The Football Tartans, starting like kit
tens, orared back like lions Saturday at 
Tech Field, to maul Case-Western Reserve 
18-0. The Tartan defense, played its finest 
f game, stopping CWRU 2 times inside the 
P Tech 20 for their second shutout of the 
season.
The first part of the game was filled 
with miscues, 6 turnovers in the first 7 
minutes. Both teams looked poor until the 
middle of the second quarter. Then the 
Tartans took posession of their own 20 yd. 
line, where quarterback Ron Shinault went 
f to work. A quick pass to Charlie Price 
| moved the ball to the 40, and then a 60 
yard bomb to Brian Carlock, the leading 
receiver in the PAC, put CMU in the scor
ing column. The PAT was no good and at
the half CMU led 6-0.
When the second half opened a fired up 
CW team took the kickoff and marched 
down the field. Inside the CMU 20 the 
tough plaid defense stiffened and the Tar
tans took over on their own 14. Eleven 
plays later CMU scored on an 18 yd run by 
sophomore scatback Bob Curtis. The at
tempt for a two point conversion was un
successful. Just before the third quarter 
ended, safety Mike Stevens grabbed a Case 
arie], returning it to the Spartan 45. Shin
ault hit Carlock for a 28 yard gain and 
three plays later curtis scored from the 3 
behind the blocking of Raymond Terza. 
The conversion attempt again failed. There 
was no more scoring in the game and the 
final was CMU 18, CWRU, 0.
Sophomore Bob Curtis, leading the Tar
tan rushing, had his finest day as a Tartan 
with 100 yds rushing in 18 carries. He 
scored 2 TDs and had one 40 yard run 
called back on a penalty. Chris OLeary 
kept the pace with 77 yds. in 15 carried. 
Ron Shinault had a fine day with 7 com
pletions in 14 attempts and 130 yds. pas
sing. Carlock caught 3 passes for 92 of the 
130 yards. The Tartans had 353 yd total 
offense to Cases 248. The Tartan defense 
was again the big difference in the game.
They picked off 5 Spartan passes and a 
fumble and held CWRU standout Dan 
Loucks under 100 yds rushing. Bob Scott 
and Michael Bralkowski both played excel
lently and Robert Pyzdrowski stood out on 
the defensive line.
CMU evened their Pac record at 2-2 and 
are 2-4 for the season. Next week the Skibos travel to Washington, Pa. to take on 
rival W&J. Last year Tech lost to the Prexies and their star QB Don Kasperik will be 
looking for some revenge.
photo by Henry Collins
After vaulting two blockers, Ray Terza sacks CWRU quarterback 
Greg Jeffries.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18THE TARTANTuesday, October 31, 1972
Easterns Leisure Class.Sometimes its Coach. Sometimes itls First Class.Sometimes itls Free.
Usually you pay\buth Fare and you get a seat in Coach.
After you buy a Leisure Class ticket at the 
regular Youth Fare, any of three things can happen.
Since Leisure Class is a Conditional 
Reservation, its possible you wont get on the flight 
you made a reservation for But, if you do, you'll 
usually get a seat in Coach.
If Coach is full and First Class isnt, you get First Class.
You'll get a seat in First Class. Drink First 
Class drinks and enjoy First Class service.
And you still enjoy the Youth Fare.
11 % of all the people who bought a Leisure 
Class ticket last year got a First Class seat.
If the plane is full, you spend time waiting but no money flying.
You get a seat in the lobby. Then we refund 
your money and send you off on our next flight 
with an available seat. Free.
We invented Leisure Class to solve the ageold airline problem of no shows (people 
who make reservations, but dont show up for the 
flight). Since Leisure Class saves us the 
money we would lose on no shows, we dont 
mind letting Leisure Class passengers save their 
money when everybody does show up.
Last year, 95% of the people who bought a 
Leisure Class ticket got on the plane they wanted. 
The rest (over 12,000 people) got a free ride. 
To qualify, just make a Leisure Class 
reservation as you would a reservation for First or 
Coach. Then, be at the boarding gate with your Leisure Class ticket 20 minutes before flight time.
If you have to wait for a flight with an available seat, it might be anywhere from 
several minutes to several hours. Of course, the number of Leisure Class reservations is limited per 
flight and not available on all our flights to all destinations or on all fares. Nor when the plane itself 
is grounded due to equipment, substitutions or failures or weather conditions.
So call Eastern Airlines at 391-6600. Or call your travel agent. Theyre the only ones who can 
tell you about Leisure Class.
EASTERN The Wings of Man.
The Wings of Man" is a registered service mark of Eastern Air I ines. Inc.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday. October 31, 1972Page 19
Fund Drive To Be 
Aimed At Seniors
The Development and Planning Com
mittee of the CMU Board of Trustees met 
last Monday for the first time in the 
 1972-73 school year.
Logan Johnston, committee chairman 
and former chairman of the board of Armco Steel, began the meeting with a discus
sion of the Andrew Carnegie Society, an 
honorary club for all people who donate 
$1000 or more to CMU during a given 
calendar year. Robert Barr, director of de
velopment and secretary of the Society exp plained that the giving club is being formed 
to honor those who give annually as oppo
sed to those who give one or two large 
capital gifts.
After a report by David Schmid on the 
st3+,'s of the CMU fund, the continuous 
national fund-raising effort of the Commit
tee, student member Ken Sachs introduced 
the possibility of contacting graduating 
seniors for donations to CMLT, in an effort 
to create an early habit of giving. After 
discussing several techniques of implement
ing such a program, the group commis
sioned Vice President of Development 
John G. Johnson and Mr. Barr to study the 
problem with the objective of making a 
fund-raising drive directed towards seniors 
in a student directed program.
I Also discussed was the current status of 
the Fine Arts project. The indefinite sus
pension of plans to construct a new drama 
complex has resulted in plans for extensive 
refurbishing of the existing Fine Arts build
ing and the use of other available campus 
facilities for various Fine Arts departments. 
Professor Barbara Anderson, a drama pro
fessor and a new committee member, em^ phasized the insufficiency of proposed 
renovations to the needs of the drama de
partment. She further noted that no amount of improvements to the work area 
of the present fine arts theatre will make it 
adequate to the needs of the department. 
The extent of improvements will depend 
on the fund available for the project.
Following discussion of the fine arts 
changes, Mr. Barr described the CarnegieMellon University Development Counci 
which will be formed in the near future 
The council is being created in an attempt 
to increase campus wide communication 
and interest in development. Each college 
will have a development council which will 
review the needs within the department. 
The heads of these departmental councils 
will meet together as the University Devel
opment Council, which will then report 
directly to the Development and Planning 
Committee.
Harsch Views
>
by Joe Harsch
A strange phenomenon has developed at 
CMU. It is being called strangely enough 
austerity. This is an economic big 
word that means cheap in common folk 
language. You can catch glimpses of this 
invisible phenomenon in abbreviated physi
cal alterations like the one night a week 
instead of two that the Registrars office is 
now open. Although a physically notice
able change, an altogether invisible result.
The scientific approach used in this case 
went something like this:
Scientist: Which evening would you 
say is more busy in this office, Monday or 
Wednesday?
Registrar: Oh, I dont know; lets see; I 
guess Wednesday. I really dant say.
Scientist: Well alright, lets make it 
Wednesday night; er day. No night! 
Registrar: Suuurrreee!
With that the scientist puts his (no fe
male scientist here) hand into his scientific 
pocket and pulls out his (You foul minded 
yankee) he pulls out his tape, and puts it 
over Monday on the sign outside the 
Registrars office. He does this so that the 
tape is exactly the right size so as not to 
waste any. He then replaces the tape in his 
pocket, does an about face in fine military 
fashion and leaves.
No use wasting a good sign because of 
one little word: austerity. That is the sort 
of small refinements being done as a substi
tute to a tuition increase. Very commend
able! Net loss, about $20.00 for the scien
tists time and equipment. This is really not 
upsetting since Monday night is a bad 
night, and needed by students to unwind 
after Sunday church (of their choice) ser
vices.
Amateur and Free LancePHOTOGRAPHERS
Obtain a Photographers Identifica
tion News Card, which helps to get 
you past "lines" to where the money 
shots' are.
To receive your NEWS CARD, mail $2.25 ($3.00 
for Card ond Carrying Case) to:
QUINN
P. O. BOX 4719  PITTSBURGH, PA. 15206
Panning across from Warner Hall 
towards Skibo Zoo, we come to a part of 
the parking situation. One student even 
had the guts to publicly make reference to 
the lack of bicycle racks on campus. How
ever, screw him. How much can one lousy 
student count for.
Lets concentrate a little on the auto 
spaces. First let me say that they are a lot 
worse than concentrated fruit juices,which 
only need three cans of water to correct. 
They are not really too bad if you have no 
principles. So you pay about $3.00 a 
month, but imagine, you are guananteed a 
parking space! Made possible by the stu
dents who still have principles and have 
said screw it.
Our camera now rapidly focuses in on 
the security force. The terrific job that 
they have done in keeping illegal students 
out of the parking lot is to be commended. 
The protective way they have of maintain
ing the better spaces behind Skibo Zoo for 
visitors is truly outstanding. This is called 
care and maintenance of the Jockstraps 
i.e. supporters. After all, what rights do 
students have to park in the visitors area? 
Hell, I dont even have the right, and Im a 
big college reporter who drives a big Volks
wagen and gives a big shit.
It would be a real austerity move to 
phase out most of the security force alto
gether, and introduce a little PR to strike 
up a rapport with the Pittsburgh Police 
Department. They could patrol the campus 
properly. After all, isnt the campus in the 
city? Why kill one hird with two stones? 
Especially when one of the stones cant be 
thrown.
Pittsburghs finest could investigate the 
crimes etc. on campus and patrol the area 
far better than the Security boys, and it 
would not cost a dime. Perhaps then a 
small security force could be maintained to 
drive and keep out the illegal autos from 
the visitors parking area, and to protect the 
principles of the students who pay to 
park because they dont have any.
If one or none of these suggestions, ar 
guments, discussions, or what have you, 
appeals to you, I for one could not care 
less. Could you? And you can call me apa
thetic I dont care a damn.
Music Polled On 
Grades, Tuition
by John Spalding
Two surveys are circulating in the Music 
Department, one about mid-semester grad
ing policies and one about tuition. Tom 
Garber, of the Student Advisory Council to 
the Music Department, is in the process of 
compiling the results. He will soon form 
recommendations based on the results and 
forward them to Sidney Harth, head of the 
Department of Music.
The survey on mid-semester grades, with 
76% of the students reporting, assesses stu
dent attitudes toward changes in mid
semester grading and reporting techniques. 
The results show powerful sentiment in 
favor of change: only eight students wished 
to have policies remaining as they are. The 
option receiving a plurality of student 
votes was to keep mid-semester grades but 
eliminate academic actions at that time. 
Significant minorities were in favor of elim
inating the grades entirely or keeping the 
grades but having them made out by the 
faculty rather than by a computer. The 
recommendation in the report to Mr. Harth 
states, the majority of the students want 
to keep the grades but abolish the actions. 
We would appreciate your doing whatever 
you can to get this policy established for 
the music department.
Tuition is the concern of the second 
referendum. It measures sentiment toward 
a proposal by the University that students 
enrolled in classes totaling more than 54 
units per semester should pay an amount 
per unit for each unit exceeding a total of 
54. According to the survey, at least some 
music students are required to take more 
than 54 units per semester. They seem to 
be reluctant to pay the extra fee, stated 
Garber.
A check through the CMU undergradu
ate catalogue revealed a number of places 
music majors are required to take 54 or 
more units per semester. Sophomore and 
second semester junior voice and instru
mental majors in music education were the 
first of several examples to be observed.
Upward Bound Assists 
Young People's Concert
Philip I f li si SUPER CUTS
My Hair-Cutters . . .
The Good Guys!
They'd never dream of teasing 
your hair into a big ugly balloon 
or using a harsh razor which 
contributes to Split-Ends ond 
Dull Hair . . .
I call them The Cut-Ups and 
they are serious about making 
your hair look great and natural 
. . . ond very, very pretty*
P S.: Men's Hair Cutting
in private quarters!
Philip Peiusi Hair Design 
1814 Murray Avenue, 
Squirrel Hill
Phone. 421 4500, 521 1200
by Brandon Dula
On October 21, several CMU Upward 
Bound students participated in Camille 
Saint Saens Carnival of the Animals at 
Heinz Hall. It was presented along with the 
Young Persons Guide to the Orchestra, 
which was narrated by Nancy Flaherty 
wife of Mayor Pete Flaherty.
The purpose of the show was to intro
duce young children to symphony orchestYa and all the inner works. The Carnival of 
the Animals was sort of a special treat to 
hold the attention of the children. The 
students participated as dancers performing
as different animals. The students agreed 
that they were nervous at first but enjoyed 
performing.
The choreography was done by Marjorie 
Walker who directs the CMU Upward 
Bound Media Workshop. Costumes and 
props were made by CMU senior Design 
students, Cindy Overhiser and Sue Sanders. 
The narrator was Robert Parks, Associate 
Professor of Drama here at CMU.
The CMU Upward Bound Students par
ticipating were: Maureen Bender, Cheryl 
Carter, Renna Dickson, Brandon Dula, 
Kimberly Finch, Anthony Harper, Milton 
Henderson, Antoinette Jackson, Judy 
Searles.
Discover the World on Your
SEMESTER AT SEA
Sails each September & February
Combine accredited study with 
educational stops in Africa, Aus
tralasia and the Orient. Over 5000 
students from 450 campuses have 
already experienced this interna
tional program. A wide range of 
financial aid is available. Write 
now for free catalog:
WCA, Chapman College, Bo< CC40, Orange, Cal. 92666

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, October 31, 1972
Che TARTAN
the STUDENT GALLERY
Che CAMERA EXCHANGE
the CARNEGIE MELLON YWCA
bring you
A PHOTO CONTEST
CATEGORIES
PEOPLE ,
EVENTS " 
STILL LIFES and. /
LANDSCAPES
DEADLINE FOR SUBMITTING 
PHOTOS A NOVEMBER 30
PHOTOS MUST BE 
MOUNTED, PRINT 
SIZE LIMIT 11 x 14 
3 PRINTS PER ENTRANT
All members of Campus Community Eligible, 
Except TARTAN or STUDENT GALLERY STAFF
Prizes 
In Each Category
Special Edition of TARTAN Will Carry Best Photos
Student Gallery will display photos
CAMERA EXCHANGE: 3711 FORBES AVE. and 5432 WALNUT ST.
