esome.
:ay
hort
tnd
mces
II-up cluccess
tines
>rs totalei 
iphomores,
rtynt,
LONDON,
itograph
lures
TENNIS DANCE 
MAY 3 
A FINE TIMEhf Parian
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA
SEE YOU AT 
THE 
HOME CONCERT
UP DAY REMARKABLE SUCCESS
--------------------
Bursts Forth With EnthusiasmDance In' 
ig Enjoyed By AHFire Department Intercedes
some of our august 
smen became very tired 
iris about in wheelbarrows, 
of the student body carried 
shovel and picks, and 
oilers, trying their best to acthe most possible in the 
of time.
MR. OTTO H. KAHN FOUNDERS DAY ORATOR
Although school was not dismissed, 
many Carnegie Tech students were 
in the Music Hall was fortunate enough to be present at the 
and not so long that |Founder's Day exercises held last 
The Victory Loan ; Thursday, April 24. in the Music Hall, 
his message across in I richer setting for the exercises'
that it appealed to all. 
talks were given by the 
students in the interest 
activities. - Then for the 
to the beanery, 
was  something new 
different. Music and ^ce 
salad n everything. The 
did do a fine job oi 
Even the music was furthe girls.
heaps disappeared as if by 
which served no betthan sign boards were 
passed to the wood pile 
chain of students. The girls 
ith the boys. They Oncourcarried water to them and 
for them. Without the 
day could never have 
it was. 
great pile of wood had 
the crowd was sumthe Plebes clean up 
-in a baseball game, 
was to have been lit at 
, but the rain, interfered, 
the rain couldnt interfere 
party. Of course, you 
Everybody was. The 
by Barrows Jazz Orfine.
30 the fire had been started 
burning fine. Just about this 
turned in the fire 
It seemed the entire Pitts-N 
force, had turned out. They 
the fire out, much to the 
of the students. -But this did 
in the least the spirit of 
At 12 the party broke up, 
went home, satisfied 
had lived through a real red 
at Carnegie Tech.
could have been devised. At the cen
ter of the stage stood a beautiful copy 
of Victory by Augustus St. Gaudens. 
A background of palms, ferns and flow
ers gave to the stage a most .beautiful 
appearance.
The principal speaker of the day 
was Mr. Otto H. Kahn, one of the fore
most bankers in this country and prob
ably the highest authority on railroad 
finance. Mr. Kalm has been most ac
tive during tlie war, giving the United 
States and her Allies the benefit of his 
financial experience. He is not a na
tive born American. Yet he has been 
with his adopted country in season 
and out of season. . He has been a 
vital force in causing the thousands of 
Germans, who like himself, have come 
to this country to find happy homes, 
to become whole-hearted Americans. 
In introducing Mr. Kahn. President 
Church likened his work to that of 
the great constructive patriot, Carl 
Schurz. t
As a token of appreciation for his 
aid during the war, the Republic of 
France gave him a decoration. Mr. 
Kahn is not only foremost in the field 
of finance, but he is a prominent fig
ure in the world of art, music and ed
ucation. He is a trustee of the Mass
achusetts Institute of Technology and 
of Rutgers College, and chairman of 
the Metropolitan Opera organization.
.Mr. Kahns address wason The 
Morning After. It dealt with the 
problems immediately before us in th* 
work of reconstruction and construc
tion. In the course of the address lie 
touched upon government control of 
utilities, the labor siCuation, housing 
conditions, Americanization and co
operation. He gave his views in a 
most pleasing way 12vfery statement 
he made gave -evidence of profound 
thinking. Especially valuable were 
his ideas 'for in all probability lie 
voices the views of the better W all 
street. His address may be found 
complete on page 4 of the' Pittsburgh 
Gazette Times of Friday, morning, 
April 25, 1019u
President Churci acted a$ chairman 
of ..the meeting. Mr. Charles Heinroth and the Pittsburgh Male Chorus 
led the audience in singing the Star 
Spangled Banner. Rev. Dr. Luther 
Freeman of the Emory M. E. Church 
gave the invocation. Then Mr. Ileinroth favored the audience with the 
overture to Mignon by Thomas. 
Mr. Augustus Iv. Oliver, secretary of 
up later. So hide away )he Boar,i 0f Trustees, read the anbonus or back flying pay j nual report Qf the Carnegie Institute, 
name, school, rank and He spoke in the highest terms of the 
war service reneclered for the country 
by the graduates, under-graduates and 
former students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
AT TECH BIG REUNION
Tecli men who served 
Service as pilots, observ
are requested to hand 
to Avery, Shilliday or 
Ians are being made for 
etc. (you know what etc. 
all the men who passed 
battle of Camp Dick are 
the affair complete, 
plans call for uniforms 
photograph, organizaand other things which
to any of the. above men 
school post olflce.
! TRACK TEAM WINS SECONDPLACE AT PENN RELAYS
W. & J. Comes in First in Hard Race With Plaid Team
COACH WAGNER WORKING FOR WESTMINSTER GAME
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE OF MUSICAL CLUBS 
StandingF. J. Nuttal, publicity manager; George Smith, assistant man
ger: H. C. Knapp, librarian; W. S. Miller, librarian.
SittingF. . Faville, manager; G. C. t^alaurie, president.
MUSICAL CLUBS HOME AND READY FOR CONCERT
LOAN GREAT SUCCESS AT TECH ALPHA TAU ISOLDSMID-YEAR INITIATION
has already beei> over-sub-1 those promoting the loan Interesting Talks Given By
their new goal at 50,000. 
of sales made are to be 
to the Secretarial Office, 
M. M. D., from 12 to 2. 
igures will show, what the 
of the Secretarial Departaccomplished in handling 
Subscriptions taken in by 
totaled $27,400; Juniors, 
$450;- College 
$10j900. The Freshmen 
no subscriptions as' yet. 
but part of the story. To 
April 25, the total amount 
reached $44,900.
chairman of the
Faculty and Alumni 
Members
The Musical Clubs returned Satur
day from one of the most successful 
trips in their history. The itinerary 
included New Castle, Pa. and Warren 
and Youngstown, O. The audiences 
in each city were large and very ap
preciative. The clubs were royally 
entertained in every place they visited, j 
The one outstanding feature of all the 1 
concerts this year has been the good  
times that have been enjoyed by the I 
clubs in every town. Any fellowfrom 
either club will testify that he has 
had a gi?e time at every concert.
The clubs have labored under some 
difficulties this year because of the 
unprecedented conditions imposed by 
the war. It has been the.shortest sea
son in the history of the clubs. Theyj 
were not organized until February,1 
whereas they usually organized as; 
soon as school starts in the fall.
Nevertheless, the officers of the ciubs j 
consider this as one of the most suc
cessful seasons the clubs have ever j 
had.- Fortunately, there was no,lack! 
of good material this season. The j 
clubs are larger than ever before and | 
have progressed'''wonderfully. They 
have returned from this trip keyed to! 
the top-notch of their ability, and In ! He began the study of the mandolin
splendid condition for the Home Con-; at 9 years of age and toured South
cert. J America, when only 1.4. He roturnod
The demn"'1. for tickets is greater j to Leipsig to continuethe study of the 
this year than ever before; as .every , mandolin and violin shortly after his 
effort is being made to make the Home i South American tour.. In the spring 
Concert a never-to-be-forgotten event, of 1909 he came to New York and a 
Information concerning the sale of, year later became director of mandotickets is printed elsewhere in this 1 in club here. lie played the violin 
issue of The Tartan. The Concert, in the Pittsburgh Symphpny and Pittstogether with the Formal Ball in the j burgh Festival Orchestra and; is at. 
Syria Mosque after the concert, will present director of the orchestra at 
bethe greatest affair of the entire the William Penn Hotel. One of tlie 
school year. As is understood by the | surest proofs of his ability is the won. 
title, the dance will be exclusively derful success of the clubs, 
formal, but the concert will not. be ! -----.-----------
SIGNOR SCALZO, DIRECTOR OF 
MANDOLIN CLUBS
Signor Scalzo is .a native of Ityily.
STUDENT ASSEMDLY DIRECTED BY STUDENTS
Last week's assembly was a depart
ure from the general run of assemblies 
in that it was a strictly student af
fair. P. S. Miller, the presiding offi
cer, opened the meeting by having 
I Mr. Crawford, the leader of tho Glee 
Club, lead in singing a peppy song.
| The subject of athletics was tlie 
I first thing brought to the attention of 
I the students. Nuttall announced that 
j although forty-five men had turned out; 
for tennis he would still like to get 
out all the available tennis material 
! in school. The. schedule promises to 
| be a very flue one. It consists of 
games, with W. & J., Grove City. Iltt, 
j State and probably Allegheny; 
j Coach Hazel fools that the students 
1 who are not. out for athletics should 
! know the team men hotter and ho able 
| to place and Identify them. Wagner 
! promises a winner In baseball. Ho 
! explained that, by a winner ho meant 
| a team that could come out. of a game 
j with the sanie pep with which they 
I went, into it. Nevertheless', he admit
ted that it was very convenient, t.o 
close the ninth Inning with a larger 
scor than thnl, held by the opponent. 
Honus" would like to eoo the girls 
show more spirit in the games.
In a few words, Colonel 'Brooks' fur
ther explained tho character of the R. 
O. T. C. to he established. In show
ing that all ttye drudgery hndlboen re. 
moved he stated that hi1 had been or
dered to pack and' ship all tho rifles 
loon tod at the school,
formal. The freshmen of the school; 
are earnestly requested to consider go-1 
Ing to the dance as welhes concert, for! 
it is the one big affair,of the year 
where there .are no class distinctions. 
Everyone-'freshmen, sophomores, junMRS. HAZEI ENTERS 
DRAMA DEPARTMENT
One of the most charming of the
iors and seniorsare Invited to at-j new' residents of Tech City" in 
tend and are assured of a good time, Schenley-Park, Pittsburgh, Pa., is Mrs. 
To avoid any confusion, tickets to the [ Inez Dudley Rogers Hazel, wife of 
dance will be sold only to those who Captain William B. Hazel, track coach 
hold concert tickets; The dance tick-j of the Carnegie Institute of Technolets will cost but ;j>l per couple, in adLogy. Mrs. Hazol, who is the daughter 
dition to the concert tickets. The i of Mr. and Mrs. William Coggswell 
committee wishes to announce that Rogers of 10 West' 47th street, New 
absolutely1 no flowers will be worn at | York City, has just enrolled as a stuthe dance. Elaborate preparations are ! dent in the School of Drama. She 
The mid-year initiation and'banquet! being made for blie dansce. It is plancomes from a long line of old New
i dLJHmJIM (.1)111)11 I.mi, , I,in 1 iCaptata Mettertelo van pronom with I ,alt||||, g( T0(.hn0|0Ky. )lt, h 
hu ruino old pop Mint In known In lid i,. Union. (Vntrnl
goal will be easily reached.
of the Alpha Tau Honorary Fraternity took place at the Fort Pitt 
Hotel last Saturday evening. The 
following men' were initiated: M. F.
Barrett 19, E. R: Christenson, 19, 
and A. Z. Shmina 19. The faculty 
members present were Prof. Leeds, 
Prof. Morris and Mr. Fred Hartman. 
Each gave fine addresses, speaking 
, of the school activities in the last 
\t-tee, wishes to thank the year and the big things planned for 
the Secretarial Departj an(j the Division of Industries
co-operation in this nexjyear. Among the Alumni 
splendid, work continues, ^giiibers present were L. M. Robin
son. 16, G. W. Strachan 17, and S. 
P. Tompkins 17. Mr. Strachan is 
employed in the construction depart
ment of the Goodrich Tire and Rub
ber Company of Akron, Ohio. He has 
charge of a large share of the con
struction work and is building sev
eral houses to sell as a side line. 
Other' members present were J. W. 
Batman, F. C. Beede, A. Merrucci, R. 
A. Gartshore, H. J. Graham, C. T. 
Heddeaus, C. K. Koontz, F. C. Rod
gers. C. F. Seidel and C. L. Yost. 
Plans were begun for the big re
union, initiation and banquet to be 
held during commencement week in 
June. It is the desire of the fra
ternity to have every alumni and ac
tive member present at that big af
fair.
PHOTO HANGS IN 
OF PHOTOGRAPHY 
ENGLAND
of the Carnegie InstiTechnolog. hangs in the 
of Photography in London.
beauty of the architectural 
of the buildings and the rug-;
of -the setting of 
so impressed art crtt'his print was reproduced 
January 29th issue of the 
Photographer. The artist 
the print, Mr. II.-C. Torevidently grasped just what 
in the mind of the plan and 
committee who had selected 
of the Institution and in 
eye had seen the towering 
rising phoenix like from 
hills and valleys of 
Park and had. shown the 
in its real setting of nat. A school forhpractical 
in the center of nae-ires wild
W. & J. TENNIS MATCH HERE FRIDAY
The big tennis match between Tech 
and W. & J. will be played here at 
Tech Friday instead of Saturday. The 
names of the men playing for Tech 
cannot be announced yet. Colonel 
Brooks feeist certain Tech will makeThomas e his^ir ^Baker, secof the f--------s -Institute of ,an excellent showing.
s? t0 j tfnesday beALSO REMEMBER
ore he Counci .. -rcr"!' Teachers; THE TENNIS DANCE, MAY 3. 
f the Division' i T_ A<tt'PER COUPLE,
ubject was L /. RYBODY OUT\
ned to accommodate several hundred England stock and is the great-grandcouples at the dance. A selected ordaughter of Governor Dudley, former 
chestra of eight pieces, especially governor of the State of Massachiichosen for this occasion by Signor setts. A former Harvard president is 
Scalzo, will furnish music for dancing, also numbered among her antecedents. 
Refreshments will also be served. i Mrs. Hazel, who was married four 
The program offered this season is j years ago to Captain Hazel, had just 
one of great variety. There are num-j emerged from the Southern Seminary 
bers to suit the individual tastes of J in Virginia and was spending the 
everyone. In addition tothe numbers summer. in her summer home in the 
by both clubs, there are many specialj Berksliires. Captain Hazel, who is a 
ties. Individual solos, vocal quartets, j Springfield College man. has just come 
and instrumental quartets,?, as well as ! out of the service. His home is in 
readings by the clubs artists in. that | Homer, Michigan.
line of entertainment. There.is every---------------------------
thing from rag-time to grand opera; j He is only fantastical that is not in 
ronnriniiPH -n Twn j fashion.Burton.
the
tho older students. His talk chletly 
concerned tho plans for tho reception 
of the Fifteenth Engineers In Pitts
burgh.
The band made Its Initial appear 
anco at this awsombly. It was heavily 
encored but owing to the shortness 
of time, the privilege of hearing It 
again had tobe postponed.
.Tuergensannounced the withdrawal 
of Dean Connelloy from the School of 
Applied Industries to take a place oil 
Governor Sproul's staff.
[. S. Stark, announced the plans for 
Clean-up Day and following tills Coach 
Bianchi awarded the varsity basket 
ball men their certificates. Grtzler, 
Stupakoff, Carey, Abrams, Foxon and 
Ilamman were the men recognized. 
The in ter fraternity basket ball cupwas awarded to the Woodlawn Club.
Finally. Rev. Dougherty of Trinity 
Church gave a brief but extremely 
spicy and snappy talk on the Victory 
Loan.
Owing to the cold weather Honus 
Wagner had the Tech baseball team 
playing indoors in the cage last, night. 
There promises to be a radical shakeup in the infield before the WestminI ster game for the New Wilmington 
j team is just as formidable and danger
ous as the Dukes they met last Tues
day. Butch Lundell, the youngster 
who is just back from the army, is 
making good in the infield and seems 
to be assured of a berth In Saturdays 
game. Doherty, on first, easily out
distances all aspirants for the first 
sack, in spite of his diminutive size, 
and will start off lor Tech in that po
sition. The spot of the infield causing 
the most difficulty is third base, and 
no.one has yet been designated to fill 
this place. Windy Lynn seems to 
have won a place at short. The show
ing of young McCawvin last. Tuesdays 
game has inspired new hope In the 
Teehites, as it gives the, plaldles a 
new tosser of the caliber of Captain 
G.retzler and, in fact, will make the 
captain step some to hold Ills lead as 
premier tosser of the Schenley Park 
outfit,.
Either Levine or Gannon will back
stop the Tech moundsman this after
noon ! Goddoi^ Is still suffering from 
a bad throwing arm. In the outfield, 
j-ioiius is not. sail lied, in spiteof the 
showing made by the outer garden 
men on Tuesday. There are rumors 
that "Red" Oakley Is to be restorod to 
his former post, which will moan tho 
elimination of one of tho others, un
less Captain Grotzler goes on tho 
mound on Saturday Instead of the outMoUl. Tf this arrangement Is made the 
best, dope on tho outfield gives the 
places to Oakley, Gatos and Abrams, 
with "Pat Hoban a reserve man. Ac
cording to tho dopo sheet; In the way 
of experience and loam work the West
minster boys have tho bent of It, but 
tho surprise that Honus sprung last 
Tuesday Is likely to bo ivpeat-'d this 
afternoon, for the wily old fox Is full 
of baseball tricks and uncorks a now 
ono just when least, expected.
NIGHT INTMHOOL 
AH, UNION, MAY l!i
Considerable Interest Is already 
manifested In tho danoo to be given 
by the night students of the four 
Bchools comprising tho Carnegie In* 
'Id In tho
Carnegie Union, Central building, 
Thursday evening, May 15,
Heretofore there has boon a ten
dency among tho night students to 
take no active part In t ho stud outs' 
activities, keeping entirely to them* 
selves, suroly not the proper way to 
spread tie "real" Tech spirit, Now 
that this "get-together" dance Is*prov
ing such a, tremendous success, due 
to tho1* Initial dance given, several 
years ago by tho students of the Mar
garet Morrison School to tho students 
of tho Science School, It Is hoped toj
The Tech relay team left last 
Thursday night for Philadelphia to 
enter the big University of Pennsyl
vania track meet. Those who made 
the trip were Coacli Hazol, Captain 
Schmidt. i Gare, Hiller, Russell, 
Stone and Sacks. The special mile 
relay in which the Tech team was 
entered was won by the runners 
from W. & J., but our boys gave 
them a hard battle, forcing the run
ning to a brilliant finish. The men 
who' ran for Tech, Schmidt, Gare, 
Hiller and Russell, kept right at the 
heels of the W. & J. runners, but 
were unable to defeat them. Great 
credit is due Coach Hazel arid the 
team for their splendid showing, for 
this was the first big meet of the 
year and Coach Hazel lias had only 
a few weeks in which to train his 
men.
No records were broken at tho 
Penn meet, this year, but It Is interesting to note that Lenegliren of 
Georgetown,' won the Penthathlon 
event. Bartels of Penn, being sec
ond. This is the first time since this 
event was inaugurated, four years 
ago, that. Penn has not been, the win
ner. Pitt last year relay cham
pions, finished sixth, Shea being un
able to overcome the lead of tho 
others. Summary of relays:
One mile relay, championship of 
AmericaWon by Pennsylvania; sec
ond. Nebraska; third, Cornell; fourth, 
Missouri. Time, 3:25.
Four mile college championship 
relayWon by Cornell; second, Sy
racuse; tihlrd. Princeton; fourth, 
Iowa State. Time, 18:41.
Two mile college relayWon by 
Chicago; second. Harvard; tlvird, 
Notro Dame; fourth Columbia. Timo, 
8:11.
Ono mile college relay, Class B 
Won. by Syracuse; second, i'onn 
State; third, Holy Cioss. Tltno. 
3:29.
Ono mile college relay....Won by
Colgato; second. Stevens; third. 
Tomplo, Philadelphia; fourth, Dela
ware. Time, it;14.
Ono mile col logo relayWon by W. 
& J.; oocond Cnrnoglo Ti>ch; -third, 
Buffalo; fourth, Franklin and . Mnr. 
shall. Time, 3:38.
TECH DEFEAT9 DUQE
Nearly two thousand rooters saw 
the craclc Duquosno University base
ball team go down In defeat before 
the pupils of Homtu Wagner at Tech 
Held last Tuesday afternoon. Tho 
score of 5 to 1 does not. fitly do* 
serlbo tho game, for two of tho throe 
runs made by the "Dukes" wore ac
complished while the "Tcchltes" woro 
suffering J'rom stage fright. "Homis" 
has accomplished wonders with tho 
 quad of Inexperienced players, mak
ing a first class ball train out of 
them. Voting McOaw, who pitched 
for  "Tool" was tlui big surprise. 
"Honus" has kept, him under cover 
from the newspapers. Fourteen of 
the Dulces retired via the strllcn-out 
route while only two ilrew' passes. 
Hay. Doherty, the midget fim base
man, got one lilt, made two runs and 
handled eleven putouts" without ail
foster the movomont and make each error
FOUR SERGEANTS ARRIVE
The R. O. T. C. has added to its 
personnel one Regt. Sergt.. Major, one 
First Sergeant and two Sergeants in 
the Field Artillery Group. The Ser
geants have both seen overseas active 
service, and Sergt. H. M. Jenkins re
ceived citation for distinguished serv
ice in action.
He that despairs measures Provi
dence by his own little contracted 
model.South.
danco bigger and better.
Informality Is to be the by-word, and 
we expect all to put their shoulder to 
the wheel and show that the night 
students are alive to their duty to 
their Alina Mater.
Y. W. C. A. SECRETARY 
SPEAKS ATM. M. C. S.
Miss Thoburn, one of the National 
Y. W. C. A. Secretaries, spoke at the 
Y. W. meeting on Thursday, April 24. 
She gave a very interesting and timely 
talk on "Reconstruction, dealing 
especially with those phases which 
touch the average young girls life.
Although there was not a large at
tendance, considering tho. many varied 
interests connected with Founders 
Day, we were glad to have even those 
few girls make an appearance.
(Continued on Page Two.)
Tho Duquesne team fought, hard 
to the end but timely hitting by 
Tech and a few errors by the Dukes
gave Tech a safe lead.
Tech ......................0 0 2 0 1 0 2 0 *5
.Duquesne ...........0 0 1 1 0 0 0 1 0--3
I-IltsTech, 5; Duquesne, 4. Er* 
rorsTech, 3; DuWsno, 7. Stolen 
basesMaurer. Gates, . Dohortv, KUi;-'s 
Wolak. 
Struck out
lumia.1-, 7. Base on ballsOff McCaw, 2; off Velunnas. 4.
Three-base itJoyce. 
By McOaw, i>i*( ' by Ye*
CARNEGIE TECH MUSICAL CLUBS
WESTMINSTER GAME
CALLED OFF
The exceptionally cold weather of 
last week forced Coach Wagner to 
hold baseball practice in the gym'. 
Honus is working hard on a success
ful combination for the infield and 
a radical shakeup In the lineup la 
expected soon. Honus is not com
pletely satisfied with the outfield in 
spite of their good showing last 
Tuesday and rumors are heard that 
Red Oakley will resume (his old 
position. In all probability the out
field will consist of Oakley, Gates 
and Abrams, with "Pal" Hoban in 
reserve.
After two nights practice in the 
cage and no letup in the winter 
weather, the Westminster game was 
called off.
TECH GIVES $298 FOR BELGIAN BABIES
That forget-me-nots were appro
priate flowers to soil at To oh for tho 
Belgian Babies was proved by tho fact 
that $2l)H were given for them.
Tho benevolent" gentleman, who* 
when asked to buy a daffodil for homeleas'French children, refused (saying 
that he had just "donated" to tlie 
Belgian children the day before), and 
then offered the valuable suggestion 
of having a "garlic day for Italian 
babies," either felt that his dime given 
the day before towards Techs S29S, 
had fed all Europe, or what is infi
nitely preferable for an American to 
believe,/was merely showing his own 
personal; inclination, and aesthetic 
tasted the way of scents,
NO. 14.APRIL 30, 1919

---------------------------------------------------

Call for Photographs
A Book of Views illustrating the 
work of the Institute, as well as the 
student activities, is being prepared. 
Any students who have photographs 
of unusual interest are requested to 
submit them to the Secretary. It is 
desired that the material for the new 
book be in hand as early as possible.
Thomas S. Baker
Secretary.
PRICE for price, grade for gri 
there is no better pipe n 
than a W DC. You can get a, 
with the familiar triangle ti 
mark in any'size and shape 
grade you wantand you wi| 
glad you did it. WDC Pipes 
American made and sold in 
best shops at $6 down to 75 cl
TRADE
Here is a pipe to proud of in any compni Genuine French Bri: carefully selected, beau fully worked, super! mounted with sterli band and vulcanite 1
GET YOUR HAIR C 
----------at the:------
NEAREST TO TEC
Cor. Craig and Fc ii
FPED FARGEL, Proor  
Nearest and Best Laujtl 
Agency. k
~ | )U
PAGE TWO
(lari an
Publlshed e\ery 
Technology.
week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of
Entered in the poLoifieq of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
(Copyrighted 1919 by Henry F. Scheotz, Jr.)
This year $1.00
SUBSCRIPTION RATES
6c the copy Canada, $1.25
Phono, Hazel 9425.
BuBlncos Manager
Phone Schenley 9025
EDITORIAL
Managing Edltoro.
F. I. Smith.
J. It. JludlHill.
Assistant EdltorG.
A. C. May.
G. A. Willard.
School Editors
M. M. G. S..................Margaret Sondheim
Science ................................. K. K. Knaell
Industries ..............................H. W. Lynn
Design .................................... C. TMiller
Night ..................................... Julius Foster
Athlctlc Editor 
W. J. Ravenscroft ____________________
TARTAN OFFICE...................................................................................Hours-2:00 to 4:00 Wednesdays. 
4.0 to 8:00 Thursdays.
Staff Photographer 
William M. Myier, Jr.
M. IV/. r, S. Assistants 
Edith Braden 
Frances Roberts 
Hazel Shueffer 
Helen Young 
BUSINESS 
Assistant Business Manager 
John G. Keelan 
Advertising Manager 
W. F. Kelley 
Assistant Advertising Manager. 
MarUn I. Goben 
Circulation Manager 
H. G. Atchley
.Room 102, Design
The Editor-In-Chief 1 responsible for the policy of this paper; the Manag 
Jng Editor for the make up.
All business communlcatlonB should be Bent lo the Business Manager. 
Any delay In delivery of this paper or change of address Hhould bo reported 
at once.
The Tartan welcomes all coinnninlcatlons of student Interest, If signed, 
the signature to be withheld If desired. ____________
All news items -.ust be in the student postoillce, Central BUildlng, before 
noon on Saturdays.
WHY MAGGIE MURPH?
, Now, that the oppressed peoples of 
the earth are being spoken for, and 
now that It has become the fashion 
for the boy students to reiterate their 
gallantry, Is it not about time that 
someone found out. why Maggie Mur
phy is the TECHNICAL name for 
Margaret Morrison? What about the 
name it really bears, or if you must 
be sportive, and call things what they 
are not, at least be clever and original 
enough to think of something besides 
Maggie Murphy, whoso humor, II It 
ever had any, has become threadbare 
and. senile with age. More than (Ills, 
though the words are Irish enough, the 
humor (again granting there is any) 
is of the heavy Teutonic variety. Let 
our own big four," our four big 
schools, think up a more appropriate 
and dignified' name for the school that 
has put a great many flue things 
across al. Tech.
And .speaking of oppressed peoples, 
wartime economy Is a, relic of Ger
man lynrbnrlsm, and what a,bout hav
ing enough clean towels to be able to 
appear a, civilly-ed American, instead 
oi a wild mud unwashed (or dried) 
TJQlsJievik?/
M, M. D, started "clean-up day, and 
M. M. I), helped finish It; she doserves 
s lot of credit, does she not? And 
dont, forgot who's pulitine over the 
large Tech Victory. Loan quota.
If yon have any business sonse,
If you have any common nonno,
IT you have any sense of right,
BUY BONDS!
Buy, an well as slug NtlTl'lS OI*' 
VICTORY I
THE BRITISH CONVICT SHIP 
"SUCCESS
To make clearer the (land In all cruelty 
lirueflced and lo gel a bolter under
standing of man's Inhumanity to man, 
visit llie convict ship, "Success," and 
learn how recently, men In the name 
of "law" and ".lusLloo" were tortured 
and killed.
Our system Is better In every wa.y, 
but there are still forms of cruelty 
practiced that "deform" a man instead 
of "reform him. It is "up" to the 
coming generation to bring about a 
change.
THE MUSICAL CLUBS
The prpient musical clubsare on a 
par with/the best in the history of the 
school. ! Many reports and clippings in 
the papers where concerts have been 
liekl, prove conclusively, the merits 
of the clubs. Their financial success 
depends a great deal upon the success 
of the home concert. The clubs are 
one of Techs most loyal organizations 
and are worthy of every ones support.
. And last but most important, you are 
missing something if you miss hearing 
them.
Ask her now.
MUSICAL CLUBS HUME
AND READY FOR CONCERT
(Continued From Page One) 
there is everything from the sublime 
to the ridiculous, if you are feeling 
blue, come to the Home Concert., and 
you will go homo singing; if you are 
happy, come to the Home Concert, and 
you will be made happier. If you 
would like lo enjoy the greatest event 
of the whole year, come to the dance 
after the concert, and you will forever 
look back upon It as the best time you 
over had. Remember, you freshmen 
are especially Invited to the dance. 
You will never regret attending the 
Home Concert and Dance.
The officers of the Musical Clubs 
are: G. C. Balaurle, president; P. A.
Fnvllie, manager; George Smith, as
sistant manager; F. J. Nuttall. pub
licity manager; IT. C. Knapp, librar
ian. Mandolin Club; W. S. Miller, li
brarian. Glee Club.
The personnel of the clubs is as fol
lows; V
Mandolin ClubSignor \ Gregorio 
Scalzo, director; G. C. BahuiVie. J. A. 
Hiller, J. A. Willard, G. C. Osier. A. 
Vescial, F. J. Heinle, S. E. Kovach. H. 
C. Knapp. F. AFaville, P. S. Miller, 
M. F. Rickenbacher, J. C. Harkn^ss^
F. J. Nuttall, C. K. Stroble, M. S. Garo,
G. A. Henderson, G. Ellerlon, Jr., M. 
I-T. Mawhinney, R. Baggikey, J. H. 
Ceremele, J. F. Sweeney. G. Smith.
fJ-Vvn Plnh---T> ribaf Or w \V f nr d\ flirpCG. Davidson, D. D. GawtJirop, C. C. 
Greiner, G. L. Jordy, G. T. Miller, II. 
Sinclair, Roy Welter, D. S. I-iarpel, D. 
E. Stermer, F. W. Agiiew, G. W. Brose, 
C. A. Carney, R. H. Doersbach, W. C. 
Dodds, P. C. Gannon, L. Hott, L. G. 
Soebacb, L. Welch, B. F. Anthony, H. 
A. B. Bliss, D. II. Ineflld, It. L. Ivreidler, J. B. McMahon, W. S. Miller, It. 
A. Moore, C. J. Schumacher, II. D. 
Skyrin, L. F. Weninger, W. B. Cun
ningham, W. K. Fawcett, A. J. Kerr, A. 
J. Knoor, J. P. McCurdy, W. F. Michel, 
tree, G. B. Poyntz, II. K. Weis, C. E. 
Powell, accompanist.
WAIT A MINUTEI
You CAN afford to go to the Home 
Concert!
Concert tickets (for two)............ {1.50
Dance ticket ....................................... 1.00
Loss 25c rebate on registration 
card .............................................................25
Total ................................................... $2.25
You CAN afford it! Ask her now!
INFORMATION REGARDING
HOME CONCERT TICKET SALE
In ordcr to facilitale th sale and 
exeluingo ol' tickets lor I lio Home Con
cert th following Information os 
prlnted : As stai od elsewliore, dance
tickets w111 he sold only to filoso (who 
hoUl tickets to th concert. The prlces 
l'or ndmlsslon to th Concert are 50o, 
75o, f>l and $1..50. In oi'dor fio olil a In 
n dance ticket, n persoli must hpld 
75 seats or jtiighor, No dauco tickets 
wlll ho sold t those holding 50 seats. 
The ticket l'or th lance w 111 cosi. $1. 
oxl,rii, Tickets may he bonghi, from 
any nn inber of th Musical Club. The 
nimica of th meni hors are publlshed 
 lMOwhoro In thla lumie .of Tho Tari un. 
mo.:s: tickets nro to he exehanged lor 
rosorvod seat i Idiota al. th timo and 
place designateti in next weoks Turtati, llpon presolitlng your reglstrallon card, whon cxchnngljiR yourtlckof you wlll i" gl \en a rebate of 25c 
'l'Iio locai Iqn ol! th spai;a in Car
ne/ilo Music Unii aro as follows: 
Orc.licntra Munta and llrnt two rows 
of dross cir.clo, $1.00.
First fwo rows in fi rat balcony. $1.50.
Officiai Announcements - Tora|N :
MOTOR TRANSPORT UNIT Captain G. L. Cardsn of the United
iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii d L States Coast Guard called at the
A motor transport unit will be established under the R. O. T. C. of CarL Carnegie Institute of Technology on 
negie Institute of Technology in September, 1919. All students of the Car-j Thursday, April 24, relative to the I 
negle Institute of Technology who wish to join this new unit, and who wish [ forthcoming examination of candi-1 
to receive credit,for their previous military training and expected perquisites | dates for cadetships in the line of) 
thereto attached, should enroll at once in the Field Artillery Unit, from which Engineer Corps of th" United States; 
they may be transferred to the Motor Transport Unit in September next. I r.,.nui r*.n>r#i
(Signod) JOHN C. \V. BROOKS, cu' ^uar-Colonel U. S. A. ! This examination wi be held on
Commanding R. O. T. C. 1 June 1C, next, and is competitive.
 About twenty-five vacancies now exin the theater in Design School, has | jat. Candidates must be American
T Hcg TARTAN1
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 30,f
rnay be obtained on the first floor for 
only 75c. Please note that the price 
of the tickets Includes the war tax.
NOTEThe fraternity, dub or or
ganization buying the largest number 
of tickets at one time will be given 
first choice of seats.
Y.W.C. A. SECRETARY
SPEAKS AT M. M. C. S
(Continued From Pago One.)
The next meeting Is to be a spring 
meeting, and It is hoped that we have 
such a record-breaking attendance 
that the Recreation Hall will prove in
adequate to sit everyone. Here is an 
opportunity for the M. M. C. S. girls 
to show that their fancy turns to 
Spring. We all hear plenty about the 
"young man's fancy," but so far the 
young girls has evidently never turn 
ed. Come out, girls, and iets have p. 
rousing, bright and springy meet
ing.
** *;**;**;* ;.*; ii
| FRATERNITY NOTES f
Z. L. E.
W. S. McKee has returned to 
school where lie will continue his 
course as a Junior Mechanical 
Mickey has seen very active serv
ice on six fronts in the shock 
troops.
W. J. Blenko dropped in to see the 
bunch last week. Since his dis
charge from the Royal Flying Corps 
Walter has been designing fire ex
tinguishers.
A dance was held at the 'house last 
week. A large sized crowd attend
ed.
The monthly alumni dinner was 
held last Sunday. Many of the
alumni and their wives were 'out.
SCHOOL NOTES
Professor Scm Soelnnd, head of the 
department of Physics, in the Poly
technic University of Norway, at 
Trondhjem, Norway, was a visitor at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology to
day. Professor Soelnnd who was on 
his way to attend the meeting of the 
American Physical Society In New 
York City, stopped off to call on Dr. 
Arthur Arton HamerBchlag, but Dr. 
Ilamcrschlug was In New York City.
A Household Economics Round 
Table was convened on Wednesday 
afternoon In the Faculty room of the 
Margaret. Morrison Division of the 
Carneglo Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, P'a, Tho guest of honor 
was Miss Florence Williams of New 
York Glty, who is director of Cafei 
terla Training In tho Central Y. W. 
C. A. of Manhattan,, This depart
mentIn Margaret Morrison DIvlslou 
In under Miss Marion M, Holmes, 
Vocational Advisor for Women In the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
been retained to coach the members citizens, unmarried, not less than 
of Tho Strollers. This is a Colum-j eighteen years of age nor more than 
bus, Ohio, company, and Mr. Steen', twenty-four for cadets of the line 
who reached Columbus last Friday: and not less than twenty nor more
got right to work selecting his cast, 
from tho old members of the com
pany.
than twenty-five years of age for en 
gineer. cadets. The pay of a cadet 
of the line is five hundred dollars
---------- I per annum with communtated raCarnegie Union will be the scene tions. The pay of a cadet engineer 
of the Tennis Dance that will beiis seventy-five dollars per month with 
held on May 80. The object of this commutated rations. Cadet engineers 
dance will be for the promotion of i undergo a course of training of not 
the tennis team that the Institution j less than one year at the Coast 
is organizing. Colonel C. W. Brooks I Guard Academy, New London, Conn. 
is training the boys. i Upon the successful completion of
|----------. j the course, cadet engineers are comss Grace/Rupert of Philadelphia,! missioned by the President to fill 
Pa., was a visitor at Margaret Mor-! vacancies in the grade of third lieutenants of engineers. Promotions are 
made by seniority. The course of in
struction for the cadet of the line is 
three years, upon the successful com
pletion *of which cadets are commis
sioned by the President as third lieu
tenants in. the coast .guard to rank 
MENORAH BANNER MEETING 1 with econd lleuenants in the army 
____ ! and ensigns in the navy.
rison Division on Wednesday. Miss 
Rupert who is a graduate of the 
Science School Class of 1918 has 
been with the. Hercules Powder Com
pany since her graduation and has 
just finished her work there.
A meeting of the Menorah Society 
was held Friday evening at the 
Temple Itodef Shalom, at which Pro
fessor Roschon of the University of 
Pittsburgh, delivered a very able and| 
comprehensive chronological treatise 
on The Wandering Jew. it is in
deed a pleasure to have the privilege 
of listening Lo such an unbiased 
treatment of this old, but always. , .
new" subject. The speaker further 1,1 W'. cadete lor Doth
Examinations for cadets of the 
line comprises algebra, geometry, trig
onometry, plane, physics, spelling 
and composition, geography, general 
information and general adaptability. 
For, cadet engineers the subjects com
prise algebra, geometry, trigonometry, 
physics and mechanics, electricity, 
spelling, composition, geography, gen-, 
eral information and general adaptadelighted and enlightened his audi 
ence by giving his views on religion, 
and even went so far as to reveal his 
own religion. What that is you will; 
have to ask him yourself. It is rare,!
the line, and engineer corps will be 
required to submit certificates from 
their schools-showing that they have 
successfully completed the regular 
highschool course in history and
Indeed, to meet a may who is so toi-1 ?SnsllEh ^ure and not less than 
erant or all beliefs, seeking ou! the I  5'ei's ot Greek LaUn' ^n0
good in each and 
dross and bigotous.
discarding the
This chapter has succeeded, in seor Spanish,
The purposes of Captain Cardens 
visit is to ascertain the probabable 
number of candidates .from the Car
, --negie Institute of Technology. It is
CUiln^as a speaker at the next meet.; derstaml that if the '.her
Hunvit/ of "T warrant it Board or Officers will
 ,h M '0 , aent t0 Pittsburgh to conduct (1..-
1 ni , sitT i h I mental and physical examinations onUnited Slates. Mr. Hurwitz has takJune 1G next. The vb ,c| examlna.
en a personal interest in the Pitts
burgh M'enorah, and the society wish
es to welcome him by a large attend
ance at f.Jie meeting. All members, 
friends and all students interested 
are invited to attend this meeting 
and to make it the greatest success 
of a successful year.
WM. DEMUTH & CO., New
World's Luroest Pipe o
Arthur W. Tarholl, Doan of Mon of 
lb' Oarnoglo Institute o*f Technology, 
loft April I for Chicago to attend 
tho ninth annual mooting of the 
American Association of Col logo Reg
istrar. Doan Tarboll lias just boon 
oleett d president of this association 
Hows :j. -1, 5 of dross circle (on first , which will meet al the 'University of 
floor), $1. Chicago ou April 2*1. 25 and 2G. Alan
Rows 1, 1, 5 of first balcony, $1. 
Last two rows on first floor, 75c. 
Rows (1 and 7, In first balcony, 75c. 
First three rows of second balcony, 
75c.
Last two rows of first balcony, 50c, 
Rest of second balcony, 50c.
Bright, registrar of the Institute, 
leaves Wednesday evening.
C. Frederick Steen, Class 1917, of 
the School of Applied Design of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
known in Tech circles .as the. best 
Thus, it will be seen that, good seats' actor, who ever graced the footlights
Pile annual dance of the Menorah the examination last year, 'the. CarSociety will be held May 13 at the negie Institute of Technology seHotel Chatham. Those who attend' oured more cadetships in. the Coast
ed our lormor dances need not bej Guard than any other institution in 
told or tlu> enjoyable lime to bo ex-! he country followed In order by the 
peeled. Your attendance is rpquest-j Caao School of Applied Science at|
ed and wo -ask you to spread the' Cleveland, Massachusetts Institute of:
nows lo your friends! | Technology at Boston, and the Unj---------------------------------- I vers!ty of Georgia,
M. M. D, NOTES Dnlisted men in. the service who
---------- lake the examination are given tho
Miss Ida Hoffman, 1917 graduate 0I Preference, that Is to say, if an en
file ,Social Service Department of M. I listed man passes the minimum re-- 
M. I)., visited the school on Wed lies* I HUired mark in the various studies 
day, April .28. She has been one of a *10 receive an 'appointment as a 
group of workers omployod by the II. eadet before civilians are considered. 
S. Government |S investigate the cost | T1.16 (onn r enlistment, is one year 
of living. Miss Hoffman has been 
pursuing this lofty subject in many 
cities of I bo IDasli and West. She is 
now in Washington, I). C., tabulating 
tho results of her work.
Lion is very rigid in character. Can
didates must not be less' than five 
feet six inches in height. This is a 
more rigid requirement, than. at I 
West Point or Annapolis. The wear
ing of glasses bars a candidate. A 
candidate must be physically sound.Appointments to vacant cadetships me given in the order ot merit. In
Mina Anna Bonscoter. who has been 
at M. M. D. for three years, the last 
year being recorder there, is at pres
ent in the West Penn Hospital, where 
she underwent a slight operation or 
Friday; April IS. Miss Marie Dutney 
has succeeded Miss Benscoter as re
corder for M., M. D.
Oakland 
Community II _
3904 FORBES STREET
You are urged to make use of the 
POOL BOOM 
READING rrty n,T E
House open from 9 A. M.11 P. M. 
EVERYBODY WELCOME
Soft pity never leaves the gentle 
breast,
Where love has been received a wel
come guest. Sheridan.
The . Coast Guard Recruiting Office 
is now being conducted in Pittsburgh 
ii'i the Federal Building. The printed 
requirements governing the examina
tion have been left in I he Office of 
I he Dean, Division of Science and 
lOnginooring, Room 100,' MachInery JHHmmmmmmmIIHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHMHHHHHHH(HHHMHHHdHd.dHHHHHHHdHHHHmH 
I-lall, where they may be consulted. ' j 
Students who desire to take the exg 
'.imlnntions should submit their names 
to the Dean of the Division of. Sci
ence and Engineering as soon as pos
sible in order that the Coast Guard _
Headquarters at Washington may bejH 
early apprised. Further detailed inH 
formation of the examination can be j 
obtained by writing direct to Captain B 
Commandant, United States Coast IB 
Guard, Washington, D. C.
BATTERY
SERVICE
IRһ CITY ELECT#
436 SEVENTH A 
All Kinds of Bat 
Repaired and Rech
ALL SHOW SPIRIT ON TECHS BIG DAY
DELBCSOUS Cl
S0CSAL AFFI
THE HALLER BA
3610 FORBES STRE 
IROQUOIS BLOC
R. SIEDLE & S
Jewelers and Silve: 518 WOOD STR
PittsburghUnbreakable W 
Crystals
;ged 
PaTwo to Fh 
AL EPSTEINj 
of the Musical Nu
J. RALPH BAP, 
of the Washir
' 1 Thomi of th 
l'echnology  
i'ore ile Coi 
I j f the Divi 
ubject was 
 _
' Politen^ 
-Tonbx

---------------------------------------------------

>AY, APRIL 30, 1919
A. Twelfth F. A., and fout 
against Germany.
SGT. HOMER M. J 
Field Artillery,,!
XK1XS,
'nassigned.Ihnvya goima koop em way 
from my storo after they got 
clotlu's from me!'
Theres two reasons why my business 
makes a big increase every daythe 
savings on account second floor location, 
and the styles for young follows. Ask some 
of my Tech boosters (and I guess over half 
the boys are) what they think of my duds.
JUST ARRIVED ** _
1 have joined a frat. 1 won't tell 
you the name, it would be Greek to
VlKt
Mam**//Monroe
aa:y
PLLAR
AB ODYv Co: I NC: TROYNYHolidays werent mean Cor editors 
of college papers.New shoyvlng of waist line models.
whlcb I had to go to New York on
a special trip. Talk about colorings and kick they stand
in a separate classand yet, no one
would say they /T
were loud.1'
EFIELD SHOE | 
EPAIRING 8
)RBES STREET J
te Carnegie Library. g 
I ss work done while you s 
wait.
I. SCHWARTZ 1
PRICES TO TECH j 
STUDENTS M
Give us a trial.
Aint it a grand and glorious fell
in  when you see one o your edi
torials in a oig eastern newspapers
This department has just received 
a letter from South Africa saying 
that the inhabitants of the interior 
country have never heard of Carne
gie Tech. We wrote back stating that 
we were extremely sorry to hear it, 
but they would have to forgive the 
oversight as our publicity depart
ment was overburdened with work 
and could not get its hands on any 
more publicity managers, as all the 
stray ones had already been picked 
up.
Clothes for 
Young 
Fellows 
$25 to $40
FI FAN WOOD
Open Monday, Wednesday and Saturday Evenings 
Outside of the middle one which is Beau nlte, the other 
two are for your convenience.URCHESP. LUDEBUEHL & SON
SHOES UNO HOSIERY -.........PEI ID FRANKSTI
Footprints Lead to Detection
If one might say that a twofaced guy is pretty slow, we know 
some bird .then who would have to 
get a stepladder to play tiddle winks 
with a snake.
m Sundays at 7:30 P. M, 
Iiddle Aisle for Tech StuEvolut!on of a Happy Thought.
Mark Twains favorite example of a 
man who was busy for keeps was the 
proverbial one-armed paper hanger 
with hives. Eureka, we begin to see 
a light. Youve heard about as busy 
as a bee. Well, isnt it simple; hives, 
bee  see? Vodeville stuff.  Indian
apolis Star.
Among the upper classmen the 
Irish flag is becoming unpopular and 
the Bolshevik emblem is becoming 
more welcome on the flag staff.
The standing of a man is as often 
as not told by his footwearif he is 
careless of that, hes apt to be negli
gent of more important things. If 
you will buy your shoes here, you may 
be certain of looking all right, feeling 
all right and impressing others with 
the fact that you are all right. Our 
Shoes are built by some of the most 
representative Shoe Manufacturers in 
the world.
rird United 
yterian Church
Northumberland Avenues
unday School, 10:00 A. M. 
| Services, 11:00 A. M. and
Definition of a Bolshevik, 
went in a rushin (Russian) 
came out a tootin (Teuton.)
rgrioples Service, 7:00 P. M.
2 n Warm-Hearted Messages. 
 welcome to all.
There is so much patriotic and so
cial business at Margaret Morrison, 
that lessons there should' either be 
abolished entirely or taxed out of ex
istence.W. O. Breckon
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Sts,ce Church
(Reformed) 
id DITHRIDGE STREETS 
5ICK C. NAU, Minister 
SERVICES:
:hcol9:45 A. M.
Worship11 A. M. 
Endeavor7 P. M. 
Evening Services at 7:45. 
for Head and Heart.
ty Welcome for All.
One of the Building Construction 
men claims to have gotten 
blisters' from working on Clean-Up 
Day, and yet we were told that all he 
did was to stand on the boardwalk, 
talking to some girls. Sign language, 
did you say?
Phones 1603160 Schenley 
SPECIAL PRICES TO TECH 
STUDENTS
urei
SCHENLEY PARK
HHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHd
Among the recent arrivals at M. M.
D. we find the name of Musty Suffer. 
Yes, boys! She is a Junior Girl!
TYPEWRITERS AND 
ADDING MACHINES
All makes sold, rented and 
repaired; allowing rental to ap
ply on purchase.
Underwoods Our 
Specialty
Written guarantee with each 
machine. Victor and Fox 
agency.FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO.
428 FOURTH AVENUE 
Near Post Office 
Phone Court 866.
IELD PRESBYTERIAN Y 
CHURCH 
Id and Fifth Avenues *:* 
bert MacGowan, D. D., 
Minister. *jj*
hing Services 11 and 8.
< school at 10. 
an Endeavor at 7. X
nt the Tech boys to at*j* 
services and learn to X 
as the congregation of 
y People. A hearty X 
awaits you. ?*
No Such Word as Fall.
There Is a differente betwoen noi, 
sueeeedlng and lnll'lh#. The rto os 
linai ; th other ls only n tompornry 
hlndrnnee. If you persevero in spilo 
.of noi suceeeding. il' you start, agalli 
and net: oh th Unowledge you lmvo 
gai ned hy your slip, II: wlll not work 
you Iusting iujury. Il Is only wlien you 
surrender timi; you are ioally boaton. 
There os no such word as fall to one 
who wlll noi givo up.
 Cigar s-----------------a n cl\ Candies
jtnmjHimmmiMtmmutmtmtmtttmmimiwimmtmnmV'mtimttmmimmr| DO YOU DANCE?
 DANCING LESSONS CLASS AND PRIVATE j
JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY
* CRAIG AND FORBES BELL PHONE j
lllOtMNNlORS CLASSES MONDAY AND FRIDAY .
 ADVANCED CLASS WEDNESDAY AND SATURDAYtimmmfflimmmmtmmmmtmmmmmmmmtitmnmmmmmmtttmmmm
N EPISCOPAL CHURCH 
Wenue and Neville Street 
fr'ATT BROWN Rector
S R. CALVIN, Assistant. 
Services, 8:00 a. m llj.00 
18:00 p. m.
kens Bible Class at 10-: 00,
i Calvin.
BTts Genuinely Wel'-ome.
It. sport to bo made a pari 
jptic menu of Tech is rifle 
[This diversion is one that. 
ttti I all types of men who love 
~ loutdoors and is especially 
and fitting in view of the 
p., her of men coming back 
n| ice who have developed a 
or a sport that requires 
~ iccuracy and decision.
A ijW. Alls,worth; the editorjtlie Tech paper, The' Tariat ?iov ng spirit in organizing 
tnd is already negotiating 
Ch of the Government range 
burg, so that high powered 
llljlljjljj be used with safety. Teams 
t ^ be formed, for sidearm 
Allsworth was born with a 
:or a trusty gun, and has 
this fondness all his life. 
0 )rn in La Junta, Colorado, 
. youngster lived on his 
nch. He was toting both 
and a rifle before he atFO dignity of being cowpunchjpr ? a bucking broncho and 
-au t the same time soon made 
ik shot, and he became a 
hell-tootin cowboy, just the 
y{ ou see in the movies, ex{. i|fAllsy was the real thing. 
J Hr for firearms naturally led 
j the round-ups where shoot~ | :s were held, and he got the 
* T ringing home the trophies. 
^ number of contests in his 
. te before he entered the 
er entering the service he 
A lalified as a sharp shooter. 
>r expert marksmen are 
i ith Allsworth in th formc* - earn which at present num~ ii 20 men. They are M. I. S :! lott, A. J. Kerr and August 
6] 1 Negotiations are already 
it, with both the Remington 
^  pany and the Winchester 
1  pany for the providing of 
y ( nd ammunition necessary, 
i ne being the shooting will 
n I to range work, and letters 
 c dy been sent out to other 
nt -iting them to form teams 
wjo te. One answer, that such 
*<lTes >een formed, lias been re
rugged 'ively contest may be exJley Pai ear future. As the fall 
Lie in itport may develop into 
ieautiy. i head for the great 
fe in the ce big game grows, 
jy. Duck shootin. Did
-------------rgner prir'k up his
i Thomas ?j his h.5"^ dog?
~ of the r--------T; 7
lologv'ap ,0 -r ^
he Counciv7> . ~ smoke a
le Divisior'r 1 
ct was L:
Princeton Seniors Discuss Morals of 
Life of Balloting Opinions.
Princeton, N. J.Eighteen seniors 
of Princeton University consider kiss
ing morally wrong, while 19 put danc
ing and drinking in the same category, 
according to the statistics of the grad
uating class * made 'public this week. 
Of the 116 seniors voting, 24 have 
never kissed a girl. Some of the rea
sons given being, Am I responsible for 
I my looks? Needed a shave, and "al
ways asked her first. Fourteen of 
the^class do not dance, while 33 never 
have attended a Princeton promenade. 
In regard to drinking and playing 
cards, 27 are teetotalers and 23 dp not 
play cards, but only 15 consider cardplaying morally wrong.
The question, What is the most 
valuable thing you have received dur
ing your college course? brought 
forth answers of great varience. Some 
of them were, learned to loaf scien
tifically, the art of bluffing; learned 
to camouflage ignorance; an educa
tion; my diploma; my allow
ance; a discharge from the Student 
Army Training Corps; and the 
"deans valentine."-
W. A. Kirkland of Houston, Texas, 
was voted to be the best all around 
man of the class; H. P. Van Dusen of 
Philadelphia, the best all around man 
outside of athletics, and Richard 
Cleveland, stn of Grover Cleveland, 
was called the most respected man.
We trust le men of Princes \always tell ^-^Kiruth. Suffice ;,3^^ay 
% 24 guys > .emissed half
A great statesman once said, 
Pd rather be right than President
The discriminating smoker says:Id rather pay 
20 Cents for a box of ten Murads, 1 HE 1 urlcish 
\ cigarette, than for a hundred ordinary cigarettes."
a Why? Because Murads are made of 100 % pure
Turkish tobacco  and Turkish tobacco is the 
^4 worlds most famous tobacco for cigarettes.
ip Judge for yourself-/
vW \ /MakrsqftklJidieslCrvdeTtiritisU 
J ),Egyptian ugardlisuiihc I \btrn

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURT hrTARTAN
Costings
for theatrical performances 
and fancy dress balls.
Phone 11 ilaiid 5186-.R
6104 PENN AVENUE
MelBon |
INatsona |
Basik I
PITTSBURGH 
Smitlifteld Street, ?
Fifth & Oliver Avenues 
Capital - - - - $6,000,000 :j:
Surplus------$4,000,000 |
Resources Over 
$125,000,000 ;i;
i, cJhe largest selling 
(ualiy pencil in 
the woxld
ENUS
PENCILS
17 black degrees 
and 3 copying
FREE
Trini samples of 
VENUS pendi BOnt 
fro C on rcqucBL
American Load Co.
21B rfIh Avo., Dopi WZ7 W. i',
Of a Wstationers und stapes throughout ...a world.
j Von will find that 
lieyipci's Gandies stand 
first)with nine out of ten 
fellows. There surely 
must be a reason for 
tli is.
Selling at nearly all 
I),rug' Stores and at our 
own Ueta.il Storey287 Fifth Avenue 
437 Fifth Avenue 
6018 Penn Avenue 
i\riori?ra)oui:ufliPJ?ii\>JfriVJii!i(;iri!!iR/Pin')n!n?i('!n?;c!ii?; ;i'
Qlioiuiiiininiiiiiriiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiuiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiniiuni'iiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiuiitiiniiii)118o)iMW !IB1I
# MISS OLEARY
(Formerly will J. K. T, ttlitmmn)
hrt noedcIoI-upliiilAUlINCJ L
LiiJilOM' nml Mon' Olollioii, CnrpolH, ; 
dli>, PorlU'i'Work Guivrivni.ooil ami Turned Out on m Short Motluu.Will cull for all lucimhur nml cloanlnjr i; at Frnt g:..s:f,
3ti;l3 FOimiSS STUKF.T (Oalcliind) PlTTSBUIitnll. FA.
|llllll|lilllil
Ld.nd.T d RADnnEEnn~|U~nEn~PGWJ 
TIWUNSITS AND LEVELS 
ALL SUPPLIES FOR THE 
DRAFTING ROOM
Engineers Equipment, Instru
ments of Precision, Blue Print 
and Brown Print Papers and 
Cloths.
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
120 SIXTH STREET
'I jIp!Itj)Jii!fi3liDfM
OAKLAND EXPRESS AND "
Bell Phones G78 and 9169 
Schcnloy P. & A. 1092-R 
229 ATWOOD STREET 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
:ij Household Goods Moved, Stored, 
Packed and Shipped.
S
'idSMMSMeUS/SMSMSiSMclMSi'SiSMSMcMciJ
| Oakland Annex RnstauraiU |
S70S FORDES STREET |
I, TRY OUR SPECIAL 35c i
S DINNER
From 11 A. M. to SS p. m. E
[j Soup Meat Two Vegetables Hj
[|] Dessert Coffee a\ld Tea Hj
^ L 
MR. STUART CRITICISES 
THE SILVER BOX
The production of The SI,Ivor Box,"
:i satirical coniedy In three act, by 
John Galsworthy, last .Saturday night, 
was one of the most noteworthy pro
ductions ever seen at the Little 
Theater. There ore those who dis* 
liked "Thd.Silver Box" on the ground 
that they go to the theater not to be 
lectured, blit to be entertained. Othi, hi tin; same category, go not to 
the theater to think, but'to be amused. 
Therein is the explanation for the un
paralleled success of the %legfeld 
Follies"! The same people will sit in 
their arm chairs and swallow lecture 
after lecture from I he pages of lifeless 
books. Possibly the same people will 
toll you they visit the art gallery, not 
to search the hidden message of some 
great painting, but merely to see how 
thick the paint is on the canvas! 
Granting all their illogical arguments,! 
they have not the license to thus re
mark about Mr, Galsworthy's striking 
satire, "The Silver Box." This play 
Is of so Intellectually, simple a nature, 
that it is within the grasp of even mob 
Intelligence. On the other hand, we 
vouchsafe to say, that this work, from 
the hand of an artist, was written with 
a mob far from mind. It was not the 
authors immediate,- desire to effect, 
any spcial reform or correct any 
specific abuse. He had observed, 
studied, even absorbed a certain as
pect of,contemporary social conditions 
in England, and laid il before us for 
our serious consideration. What is 
more, he depicted this phase, as it 
were, with all the skill and dexterity 
at his command. More power to him! 
In short, he puts before us without 
fear but with fervor, without prejudice 
but with feeling, a corner of real ex
istence and leaves the audience to do 
Its own morali/.ing. No we say, it was 
not a lecture; a lecture stultifies the 
imagination and this play gives it 
wings. We had before us an exhibi
tion of character which did not-"at
tempt to do any psychologies i re
searching. The author refused to take 
sides; lie simply drew _ \he. lecture, 
looked the world In the /ace and Bald. 
"What are you bve.y .o do about it?
The .one great keynote to "The Silver 
Box Is Us.nCtion. We can listen to 
noble an/1 profound words, but what 
the nu/lience craves is action, born of 
plot. The play must movethe audi
ence seems to care little where', but It 
niust get. somewhere. The very ex
position of this play was the action; 
the dialogue was the drama. Through
out the entire play, from the very first 
scene, When young Mack Barthwick 
comes reeling into the house in the 
middle of the night; till the final cur
tain, when Jones wan forcibly ejected 
from the court, there Is teeming ac
tion or It Is powerfully suggested. 
The characters created the situations 
and dominated the structure of the 
play. That is why we are so inter* 
cited In watching Its development: 
We want to see what the personages 
do, rather than what they are. In 
other words, the difference .between a 
live piny and a dead one is that in the. 
former the characters control the plot, 
while In the latter the plot control the 
characters'.
But lot tlie play go and lot us look 
to the players. Howard F. Smith, as 
John Barthwick, Ml P." (not'mean
ing, as the crude science student 
would have ItMilitary Polleddrew 
nn excellent characterization, Mr. 
Smith's ability, to get under the skin 
of a pari. oa ajlvys n striking <iunllly 
of Ills work; particularly when he Is 
perturbed, annoyed or exasperated 
dees he Impersonate finely. It Is only 
where lie must be culm, quiet or un* 
nssumlng that we have any reason to 
believe lie Is merely "rending lines."
it Is In the latter Instance that he 
ulionld adopt Home of the debonair 
qualities of Mr. Dickinson.
The point has been raised that you 
cannot adopt" a quality. Oontrarlly, 
that is exactly what we CAN do-- bor
row from those groUt arrists some of 
the component parts, which go to 
make up their perfection. In other 
words, the MANNER of the urtlstactor is Individualit, is his personality and should not be imitated; but 
tile METHOD of an artist-actor Is 
perfection, and we should all aim at 
that.
Veolante Bollinger's voice of so rich 
a quality was most effective in a 
character like Mrs. Malaprop," but 
not quite ' so appropriate in Mrs. 
Barthwick." We suggest that her 
conservations could be tempered n 
trifle, be made less domineering. Mrs. 
Bollinger, however, uses to excellent 
advantage that which Kenneth Thom
son could profitably cultivate, viz: the 
power to express by sudden pause, 
piercing glance or abrupt change of 
expression, what is going on in the 
mind of the character. This statement 
will be borne out by Mr. Galsworthy's 
own opinionthat1 the audience is far 
more interested in what is done on the 
stage than in what is said. In short, 
there are moments when the abov 
actions convey to the audience what is 
passing in the minds of the characters 
more directly than the most brilliant 
dialogue. In real life, action often 
precedes the word, But. for all that, 
Mr. Thomson, as young Jack Barth
wick, gave a striking Impersonation. 
The first scene, the best one he had, 
hi' made the most of. Thoro was no 
sham about It; Ills mnujllln bubble and 
unsteady gait was real and convinc
ing.
u. i. Dickinson certainly convinced 
the audience that "Roper" was a wily 
lawyer. That biting, but; humorous 
line, It might have happened to the 
Magistrate," was indicative of Mr. 
Dickinson's success. There is only one 
thing that he wants to be careful of; 
not to hurry liis lines. This slight, 
fault was more noticeable in The 
Silver Box" than in Don.
The best impersonation of the even
ing was Mary Ricards' Mrs. Jones. 
She put a certain note of hopelessness 
in her voice that was. pathetically 
plaintive, a quality that exactly suited 
the character. Her face depicted the 
agony of a woman who definitely knew
WEDNESDAY, APRI-y
conveyed to us the feeling that she 
had plenty of reserve resources at her 
command. She did not "act herself 
out; We feel as if she still could have 
risen to greater heights If it had been 
necessary. Miss Ricards displayed 
unusual talent; she never once gave 
us the chance to realize that she was 
other than a "charwoman. It was the 
finest acting seen In the theater.
We believe that Hubbard Kirkpat
rick understood his role of "Jones as 
well as any American could grasp a 
similar British character. His work, 
full of fire and sincerity, had the 
brutishness which horrified us. Yet 
somehow, the reasons for which are 
difficult to explain, he did not have 
sufficient depth of feeling to bring out 
the pathos that was unmistakably one) 
of the character's constituent parts. 
'Illin lack was in no way due to Mr. 
Kirkpatrick's intellectual grasp or the 
part. If seemed rather, that his voice, 
which Is so strangely soft, was en
tirely out of plaice in the throat of a 
man like Jones. Withall, the rendi
tion was excellent; his work in the 
'second act was one* of the brilliant 
things of the evening, and his earnest
ness in the court scene, so 'futile, was 
really, pathetic.
One of the best things that can b,e 
said concerning MlSs Ruth Farmers 
impersonation of "The Unknown 
Lady is the fact that, although she* 
appeared on the stage for a very short 
time, she made a vivid impression on 
the audience. The character has a 
great deal in it and we feel certain 
that Miss Farmer brought everything 
out that there was to bring. Regard
less of what the character implies, to. 
the average audience, we ^were 
charmed that she gave a atrlrt'iy Eng
lish impersonation, thereby making 
the character one of mofe sympathetic 
qualities than if it had been inter
preted from an  American point of 
view. *'
The .emaining characters of the 
play all did their share in making the 
eu'tire production a notable one. 
Among others may be mentioned 
Alexander Buchanan, who as "Snow, 
gave a unique piece of work. It was 
his not to reason whyhe merely did; 
Mr. Buchanan was delightfully indif
ferent! James. S, Church, as the 
"Magistrate, showed a mobility of 
expression as diversified as that of 
Nazimova. We could detect his in
ward chuckle as he spoke that par
ticularly satirical line, "The Goat and 
Bells? What is that, a public house? 
KENDALL D. STUART.
LIBRARY SCHOOL COURSE 
TO BE OFFERED SOON
Carnegie Tech, in conjunction with 
the Carnegie Library School, has an
nounced an Academic Library course 
to riieeU the crying need for people 
skilled In this newest of professions. 
Every day has brought to the Carnegie 
Library, Scheniey Parle, Pittsburgh, 
Pa., sheaves of mail asking for train
ed librarians. In addition to the 
natural shortage of trained librarians 
due to the rapid growth in the number 
of libraries being Installed In towns 
and cities all over the country, tlio 
salaries of librarians have been In
creased nil over the country for the 
past two years. 'Phis hns not only in
creased the demand, but i,t lias fur
nished t he supply of raw material, and 
the librarians course in the schedule 
of Carnegie was the natural connect
ing link, between the supply and the 
demand.
The course outlined by l;ho institute 
and the sirtiool provides for a four; 
years course of study and training. 
The applicant must, bo 1,8 years id ago 
and be a graduate of an approved high 
school with at least, two years train
ing in one of the modern languages. 
All oflier students will be admitted by 
entrance examinations. The subjects 
taught. In the bourse Include English, 
History, Modern Languages;.Sociology. 
Psychology, Physical Education and 
Typewriting. The first three years of 
(he course will be devoted to study 
and practice in Tech, while the last 
year will be taken up With training in 
the Carnegie Library School. All li
brarians coming from  Carnegie Li
brary School have flieen placed in 
satisfactory positions. One of the 
fields from which come the heaviest 
demands for the services of trained 
librarians is the High School Library. 
Scheniey High School Library, which 
is rated as a model library, is com
pletely manned by librarians from the 
Carnegie Library School. There is 
also a call for Childrens Librarians, 
and so for this purpose a part of the 
course is devoted to the study of folk 
lore and fairy tales. Entrance 
animations will be held for this^ schoolat Carnegie on September 23 and 24 
for admission during the school year 
1919-1920.
HOW IK: I IS VICTORY INDUSTRIES FROSO GIVE 
WORTH TO YOU DANCE TO SOPHS
Only one thinghow to suffer. Her 
entire bearing indicated a j fo-'fl 
motion
d iiJ
devoid of any emotion, 
was versatile and 
characterization
DAVIS THEATER
Every element of artistry that goes 
to make up the form of entertain
ment which we know as vaudeville, 
is promised for the forthcoming 
week, beginning Monday afternoon, 
May 5, in the Davis theater. Rarely 
has so diversified a program been 
given, even in this house, of high 
standards. There are nine acts in 
addition to a specially selected group 
of now>s motion pictures, for presen
tation twice each day. The thrill of 
wartime adventure will bo emphasized 
by a 'production entitled On the 
High Seas," in which fifteen player 
folk arc to appear.
GRAND THEATER
The breezy daring of the far West 
and the narrow, crooked life of a big 
city are brought, together in striking 
contrast in W. S. Harts latest photo
play, The Money Corral." which 
with four other splendid motion pic
ture subjects, will be on the enter
taining program at the New Million 
Dollar Grand all next, week, starting 
Monday morning, May 5. It is a pic
ture of the virile, c.lean-cut type that 
has made Hart such a universal fa
vorite. The star returns to the field 
;'X\L.suits him besf. of all the types
-----------------that of the rug,W..-V.-iV.\*T-J?ied cow-punch<t-------------------- /
If you arenfj in a position to lend 
$100 or $?50 at 4% per cent interest 
for four years to help bring the boys 
home, at. least you have enough in
fluence with someone who is able and 
who can give you 50 for Techs quota. 
Tech has to go over the top with $30,- 
000, and it would be ideal if that 
$30,000 could represent six hundred 
$50 subscriptions. According to Kip
ling:
It aint the Individual
Nor the army as a whole,
But the everlasting team work 
Of every bloomin' soul.
You can begin by giving no money 
or 8 per cent of your whole amount to 
the following people, depending on 
your school:
Science.
SeniorF. J. Nuttal 
JuniorM. A. Fair 
SophomoreC. B. SchmidtFreshmenMr. Miller or Mr. Skyrm 
Design.
.Betty Brahm or members of her com
mittee.
Industries.
UpperRobert Avery 
MiddleH. W. Lynn 
LowerA. W. Kann
Margaret Morrison.
Any Secretarial Student for three 
upper classes.
Frontline1 -Mys Ramsey and 
Josephine Whitney.
MR. JOHN GALSWORTHY 
GIST OF PRESIDENT
Carnegie Tecli was honored last 
Friday and Saturday by the presence 
of Mr. and Mrs. John Galsworthy. It 
seems to be' the general concensus 
of opinion that Mr. Galsworthy is 
one of the greatest living dramatists 
and man of letters: The famous Eng
lishman was sent over to the United 
States to represent his country at 
the centenary celebration of - the 
birth of James Russell Lowell, the 
great American poet and scholar. At 
this soiree, held in New York City 
last February, Mr. Galsworthy read 
a paper in which among other things, 
lie indicated England opinion of 
Mr. Lowells place in the realm of 
great literature.
President I-lamerschlag invited the 
noted dramatist to visit Tech, sug
gesting that the Drailia Department 
produce any one of his plays that he 
might choose. He accepted the invi
tation and as a result, The Silver 
Box was put on, a play that com
mercially lias been unsuccessful, but 
which in the authors opinion, is one 
of his best, ft was directed by 
Mr. B. lden Payne, a close friend 
of the playwright. and producer of 
many of his plays.
. The students of the Drama Depart
ment were indeed fortunate in hav
ing the opportunity not only in being 
directed by Mr. Payne who naturally 
was unusually conversant with the 
play, but in receiving criticism and 
suggestions from the author himself. 
The cast;- that played the characters 
came up to everybody's expectations. 
Mr. Galsworthy was particularly de
lighted ana complimented all of tlio 
performers.
A week ago Saturday night when 
Mr. Galsworthy witnessed the per
formance, Jie was generously applaud
ed, which he kindly responded to by a 
short; speech. True to laudable 
English sportsmanship, he eulogized 
the work of Mr. Payne and' refused 
to take any credit for himself! A 
short reception was hold after the 
play, when the audience, one of the 
most distinguished seen in the thea
ter, was formally introduced to the 
noted man and his wife.
PLEBES CLEAN UP
So the Plebes liung it onto tlie 
Sops, eh? Pretty slippery. Soph 
umpires, too, you say? And Emerick 
on tlie mound? Well, wouldnt that 
blow your hat in the river?
Reports of the proceedings conflict, 
so addingthem all together and ap
plying Loves calculus and Riggs 
analytics, we get these results:
Plebs.AB.H.R.P..A.E.
... 500004
I-Iedlund, 2......... 430611
Reilly, 3................... 414222
Lake, 1...................... 455556
McQuire, s;...'.... 330603
Hinckley, p............ 300011
Lusby, 1................... 422111
Weaver, c................. 300000200001
. , 317527135
SoiTs.AB.HRP.A.E
Foxon, 1................402002
... 412673
... 500005
Leete, s............... 435223
.00005
Craig, r................... ${i6240
Niehol, 1..............___334112
... 42122
'Emerick, *p............ 567000
Total ................ . .31S327126
Last Friday evening, April 25, in 
the Union, the Freshmen class of the 
Industries School, gave a very suc
cessful dance in honor of the Soph
omores. The Seniors were also in
vited to enjoy the evening, making it 
entirely an Industries affair.
Last January the Sophomores gave 
to the unacquainted Freshmen a 
very enjoyable smoker and to keep 
the Industries traditions unbroken the 
Plebes set out to give this dance.
In spite of the inclement v/eather 
which startedto mar the occasion, 
the biggest part of the student body 
of Industries was present and by 
nine oclock the Union was jammed 
witll , many dancers.
The Union was tastefully decorated 
with Japanese lanterns and the long 
drooping green streamers running 
from the center to all corners of the 
hall surely brought out the Indus
tries color. All around the room 
were posted the figures 21 which is 
the graduating year of the Fresh
men.
President August W. Kann of the 
Plebes was chairman of the commit
tee of arrangements, which was com
posed of W. C. Kunk, F. A. Crothers, 
R. V. Shannon and W. G. Pennypacker and had provided everything neces
sary to the comfort and pleasure of 
the dancers:
The punch bowl in the lobby sup
ported by cakes and cigarettes -was 
extremely popular with all hands, for 
the pep of the dancers to a sevenpiece orchestra caused some warmth.
There were many novelty dances on 
the program including an elimina
tion dance which was won by W. G. 
Pennypacker antf his partner, Miss 
Betty Lauglilin.
The big event of the evening was 
the confetti dance, bags of confetti 
were passed to the dancers who cov
ered each other with it and every 
couple seemed to turn around 'just in 
time to catch a handful of it. After 
this, dance was over, judging from 
the appearances of the floor, it would 
take many hours to clean it up.
Red Oakley was heard to say 
afterwards that he expected to see 
confetti in his room for many days 
to come.
It certainly was the great Plebe 
event of the year and will be remem
bered for many yearg to come by 
every dancer who was there.
Youre only a Plebe' once, so let^s 
go, Freshmen.
M. M. ROUND TABLES 
WITH NEW PURPOSE
Life at M. M. D. has lately centered 
about Round -Tables, which have for 
their object not the pursuit of the 
Holy Grail, but the pursuit of fitting 
positions by the students of the vari
ous departments. They are always 
given in the Faculty Parlors, and, of 
course, and thank goodness they al
ways include the serving of tea at 
4:40. On Wednesday, April 20, was 
the Round Table for the Household 
Economics Department. On Monday, 
April 28, for the Costume Economics 
Department, at which Miss Cljadys 
Fleming, a Senior in that Deparnnent, 
reported on her visits to the clothing 
factories in Pittsburgh, and the posi
tions such places offer to Costume 
Economics graduates. On Wednesday, 
April 80,.is to be the Secretarial De
partment. Round Table, at which two 
graduates of the Secretarial Depart
ment will speak.
DOES THAT STAR
SPANGLED BANNER?'
In other days, by the dawns early 
light, as one sleepily and wearily 
stumbled over the boards and mud of 
the cut, looking neither, to right ndr 
left, because clean-up day hadnt yet 
come, it used to give color, and in
spiration, and food for thought, to see 
the most beautiful flag in the world 
always flying and beckoning ahead. It 
was a constant reminder of many fine 
and noble tilings. Today we have the 
red flag. Whatever it may mean here, 
the red flag is branded foreyer, and 
can only picture to the average mind 
tlie gloom of Russian wastes, and tlie 
sophistry of unwashed Bolslieviki. 
What a come down from our flag! 
What a bad way to start the day!
Please give us back Old Glory. We 
want to see and realize the Stars and 
Stripes, and all it means every morn
ing before the day begins. We will do 
better for it. , Please arrange some 
other weather signal. Please give us 
back our Star 'Spangled Banner.
Two-base hits  Craig, Emerick, 
Hinckley. Three-buse hitsLeete, 
Maurer. Home runHubbard (al
most.) Stjjion hasosLake 4, Em
erick G. Struck outBy Emerick 5, 
by Hinckley S, by Maurer 12. by 
'Lynn 16. UmpiresLynn. Maurer.
[ Students Welcome
g FRED SUDDABYS &
\ CAFETERIA 
BUREAU OF MINES BLDG. p] 
(1 A. M. to 2 P. M.
Every school day. g
This label in your coat is 
Insurance against dissatisfa
Attractivenc 
Buying Cloth 
From Us---
1
We
Models with after-war )I 
and impressiveness! 
Double breasters again 
with single breastei 
popularity!
All wool fabrics most t 
and most serviceable! DeJ 
Colorful patterns whi tha 
peal to the critical! ask 
Better yet, and more 1 
ant-workmanship am (l!
unequalled at our pr tha1 n,-
The most in clothes j ias 
money asked! *
Savings which insur4ar 
future purchases!
Good Clothes in all tlvoo*, 
words imply! Uni
Our chain-store systen 
you! 'an
Our direct-to-you sellii 
helps you! !Lr,
Our same-price and'!'101 
treatment to all alike1',1, 
pleases you!
And our guarantee 
faction protects you!i 
Be happy, well dress, 
save money by wearit n
Our Own Retail Storm in 
Cleveland, Milwaukee. 
Akron, Pittsburgh 
(3 tores), Youngstown. Syracuse, Wilkes-Barre, 
Reading.GoodjCloth
209-211 SmiMeld Street 
507 Market Street 932 Liberty 1\
to
OAKLAND HARDWARE COMPANY 
Baseballs and G-loves Tenni:
3606 FORBES STREET
|titl
ite
I Oakland Savings & Trust C|
Member of Federal Reserve System. 
THE OAKLAND BANK
CAPITAL,
SURPLUS,DEPOSITS OVER $3,000,000.00 
H SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
ttiiiiamtmimiHiiKiiaKmitinamiiitimititiaaaianttittmttmaHK:
Til
MANSFIELD SCHOLARSHIP
SUPPLEMENTED BY GIFT
Mrs. Richard Mansfleld has supple
mented her gift that she made to 
Carnegie Institute of Technology last 
January and has given a five year 
scholarship to the Department of 
Dramatic Arts* in memory'of her son, 
Richard Mansfield, 2nd, who lost his 
life last fall at a Texas flying field. 
This scholarship will be given to any 
worthy student in the Department of 
Dramatic Arts and awards will be 
made quarterly, beginning with the 
Spring Quarter of 1919.
Young Mansfleld was a student in 
the School of Drama, .. during" the 
years 1916 and 1917, but enlisted be
fore completing tlio course. His 
mother gave as a tribute to her dead 
son some of her husbands costumes 
he wore in his best known parts. 
Among them were the costumes of 
Peer Gynt in Ibsens play, Beau 
Brummel in lrivings sketch, Macare 
from Robert Louis Stevenson, Ro
stand's Cyrano de Bergerac;. Shyloclc froui the Shakespeanean play 
Merchant of Venice," Brutus from 
Julius Caesar and Richard the 
Third."
The first winner of the scholarrl Rr
McDougal!
Shady and Penn Aves.
Mondays, Thursdays, Saturdays 
Two Orchestras Two Dancing I
Continuous Dancing ,
Beginners Mondays and Thursdays 
OPEN ALL SUMMER
Oakland Kifehe;
RESTAURANT
116 OAKLAND AVENUE 
Cove Over and See Fred and Charlie. 
Everything the Best. Prices Right. Try a meal and be c|nd
R. T. L E W 9 S COPRINTIN
COMMERCIAL
INVITATIONS
TICKETS
DANCE PROGRAMS 
AND FRATERNITY
Phipps Power Building
Bell Phone 4418 Court Pittsbuu
u-^awarded goes to Mr. C; 
^ sis: made on Apr!
^
