A Memorial to September 11
At the September 11 football game between the University of Pittsburgh and Ohio University, Pittsburgh emergency response workers were invited to hold 
one of the largest American flags ever made. Among the workers were four Carnegie Mellon EMS members: sophomore Jared Ross, sophomore Stephen Lin, 
sophomore Kevin Chang, junior Andres Bermudez.

Chang Glasgow/Photo Staff
13 September 2004
Carnegie Meltons student 
newspaper since IQ06.THE TARTAN
Russian students react to 
tragedy at Beslan school
by Kevin Purtell
Junior Staffwriter
On September 1, Russia 
watched with horror as terror
ists captured a school in Beslan, 
North Ossetia. As the three-day 
crisis unfolded, some 1200 hos
tages, many of them children, 
were held as prisoners in their 
own school and tortured. Russian 
forces fianlly stormed the school, 
but the seige ended tragically. 
According to Reuters, at least 
326 people were killed, and there 
were as many as 356 injured.
These events have deeply af
fected Russian House, a social 
organization at Carnegie Mellon 
committed to promoting Russian 
culture. Russian House currently 
has 211 members, 30% of whom 
are from Russia. Anatoliy Kats, 
president of Russian House and 
a fifth-year math major, states 
that this organization works to 
get Carnegie Mellon students ac
quainted with Russian language 
and culture.
The officers of Russian House 
have strong opinions about the 
Beslan tragedy as well as similar 
problems across the world. They 
all appear to agree that it is not 
possible to negotiate with ter
rorists. Extremists have no re
spect for human life, says Yuriy 
Goykhman, a vice-president of 
Russian House and a senior in 
ECE. Citing an article from the 
New York Times, Kats said that 
terrorists do not even represent 
the mainstream peoples views. 
Many Chechen terrorists do 
not come from Chechnya, but 
are Arabs. As stated by Sergey 
Shchukin, also a vice president 
of Russian House and a senior in 
computer science, Theyre basi
cally trying to change policy by 
just attacking.
Members of Russian House, 
however, believe that the problem 
does not just lie with terrorists; it 
is sometimes exacerbated by the 
Russian government. They
See OSSETIA, page A5
Tartans play first 
home game
Eco-architecture 
going strong
Crew: a day in 
the life
Sports, A12SciTech, A6Pillbox, BlO
Chris Heinz brings politics, 
advice to policy students
by Amanda J. Flynn
Junior Staffwriter
Chris Heinz, the son of The
resa Heinz Kerry and stepson of 
presidential hopeful John Kerry, 
spoke at McConomy Auditorium 
on Wednesday. Heinz spoke at 
the Heinz Schools convocation, a  
weekly forum where guest speak
ers address the Heinz School stu
dents. Heinz, who holds a bache
lors degree from Yale University 
and a Masters of Business Ad
ministration from Harvard Busi
ness School, has taken a leave of 
absence from his job at Jacobson 
Partners, a private equity firm, 
to work for his stepfathers cam
paign.
University President Jared. Cohon began the convocation by 
stating that the University was 
deeply honored to have [Heinz] 
here, very excited about the fact 
that hes here at all, and looking 
forward to what he has to say.
Mark Wessel, Dean of the Heinz 
School, said that, Chris embod
ies the legacy of his father, the 
late Senator H. John Heinz III for 
whom the Heinz School is named. 
When Heinz took the stage, he 
admitted that following in his 
fathers footsteps was a daunting 
task, but a challenge that he was 
willing to accept.
Heinz School Director of De
velopment Marie Coleman, who 
organized the convocation, com
mented that Chris Heinz was 
extremely well-received by the 
campus community. She also 
noted that He seems to be a very 
down-to-earth type of person who 
relates well to people, but espe
cially to the Heinz students, many 
of whom are looking forward to 
careers in public policy. Chris is a 
real asset to the Kerry campaign 
and I think all of us look forward 
to seeing many great things from 
him in the future  he certainly 
has the intelligence and charisma 
to run for an elected office some
day.
See HEINZ, page A5
Presidential candidate Ralph Nader came to the First Unitarian Church in Shadyside on Saturday evening to hold a student press conference and rally.
Volume 99, Issue 2www.thetartan.org
Nader draws crowd 
at Shadyside rally
Tepper School joins program to aid female students
by Brittany McCandless
Junior Staffwriter
As Carrie Kmetzo walked into academic 
orientation day at Carnegie Mellon, she had 
more than the usual first-year fears. I remem
ber walking into the business school orienta
tion and most of the people in it were guys, 
she said. Having had business classes in high 
school that were evenly filled with young men 
and women, Kmetzo wasnt used to going to 
school in a predominantly male atmosphere. 
It was a little intimidating.
According to the faculty and administration 
at Carnegie Mellons Tepper School of Busi
ness, this needs to change.
The Tepper School of Business recently 
joined the Fort Foundation, a consortium of 
major corporations, leading business schools, 
and influential non-profit organizations that 
aims at multiplying the number of women 
business leaders by increasing the flow of 
women into business schools and professional 
networks. The Fort Foundation accepted the 
Tepper School of Business application for 
membership earlier this year.
The Fort Foundation was initially founded 
in 2000, as a response to the research study 
Women and the MBA: Gateway to Oppor
tunity, which analyzed the under-represen
tation of women in business schools as com
pared to law or medical schools. According to 
the study, while women make up 50 percent
by James Tetlow
Staffwriter
The critical problem facing 
voters today is that huge cor
porations have far too much 
political power over both major 
political parties, says 2004 inde
pendent presidential candidate 
Ralph Nader, speaking at a rally 
at the First Unitarian Church in 
Shadyside on Saturday.
Nader, who was the presiden
tial nominee for the Green Party 
in 2000, is now running for office 
in 2004 as an independent along
side running mate Peter Camejo. 
His campaign calls Washington, 
DC, corporate-controlled terri
tory and focuses on the power 
of corporate influence in Ameri
can foreign and domestic policy.
People really have power 
if they learn to use it. But if we 
are told while growing up that 
we have no power, then the few 
will decide for the many, and the 
corporations will have their way. 
Abolitionists said No way, and 
they prevailed. Women said No 
way and they prevailed. Work
ers fought, fought, fought, and 
prevailed, said Nader. Stressing 
the importance of political activ
ism, Nader focused especially on 
large corporations that oppose 
a higher minimum wage. Nader 
advocates immediately increas
ing the minimum wage to $8 per 
hour, from its current $5.15 per 
hour, and a $10 per hour mini
mum wage two years after that 
increase.
He also encouraged protests 
of corporations who are respon
sible for massively wasteful mili
tary expenditures, which Nader 
says make up half the money our 
government currently spends.
Nader emphasized the neces
sity of being politically well-informed, saying that if Americans 
were as interested in politics as 
we are in sports, then we would 
not fall victim to political tactics 
that aim to fool, flatter, and 
flummox the public. Half of de
mocracy is just showing up, said 
Nader, as he concentrated on the 
importance of picketing, attend
ing political rallies, and voting.
The Nader/Camejo campaign 
has been plagued with problems 
getting onto the presidential bal
lot in several states, which Nader 
claims is primarily the fault of 
unnecessarily restrictive ballot 
laws and attempts by followers 
of Senator John Kerry to keep 
Nader off the ballot. Rumors 
of Democrats engaging in un
ethical methods with ballots are 
under investigation right now.
said Nader at a press conference 
prior to the rally. We have no 
hard evidence, but if we did, it 
will come up within a month. 
According to Nader, a dozen law
yers had been hired the previous 
week by the Democratic Party in 
Florida to keep Nader off the bal
lot. Nader has run into problems 
again in Pennsylvania, where the 
court has ruled that he be kept 
off the ballot. Nader is currently 
urging a reversal of the ruling, ' 
which he charges is inconsistent 
with the history of ballot access 
for third-party and independent 
candidates.
Nader claims to be the only 
anti-war candidate on the bal
lot this year, and he advocates a 
complete withdrawal from Iraq 
by the American military and 
corporations, saying that their 
continued presence will only fos
ter resentment within the coun
try towards Americans and lead 
to more U.S. casualties, huge 
financial costs, and diminished 
U.S. security.
Other issues raised by Nader 
include his demand for an envi
ronmental agenda that focuses 
on reducing fossil fuel depen
dence, seeking peace between 
Israel and Palestine, and re-prioritizing the federal budget to re
duce spending on military spend
ing and increase social welfare 
programs. Nader also charged 
Democratic Party leaders with 
being partners to the corporate 
greed that Nader believes guides 
the Republican Party. Nader ac
cused Kerry of being too influ
enced by corporate lobbyists to 
think for himself, citing Kerrys 
indecision over the war in Iraq as 
an example.
One of the major issues raised 
by rally attendees was whether 
voting for Nader would mean 
taking votes away from Kerry 
and therefore giving Bush a 
greater chance to be reelected. 
Naders response was that This 
is the least worst choice youre 
contemplating.... if you look at 
our agenda, youll see that they 
are those of the old Democratic 
Party. The current one is so cor
poratized that they cannot think 
for themselves.... If you dont 
pull Kerry this way, he will be 
pulled the wrong way.... I dont 
want people to vote for some
body they dont support.
I agree with 100 percent of 
what he endorsed, said Albert 
Torcaso, an actor who attended 
the rally to challenge Nader on 
the issue of his campaigns taking 
votes away from Kerry. There is
J.T. Trollman/Photo Editor
of the student population at leading law and 
medical schools, women compose only 30 per
cent of the student body at leading business 
schools. The study also showed a discrepancy 
between the visions women have for their pro
fessional lives and their perceived reality of 
their chances for success in a predominately 
male corporate world. The Fort Foundation 
seeks to address this discrepancy by showing 
women the benefits and flexibility of a busi
ness education.
According to Laurie Stewart, executive di
rector of admissions at the Tepper School, the
school has made a serious commitment to the 
Fort Foundations goals and will actively par
ticipate in the entire range of Fort activities. 
This includes having Tepper representatives 
on various committees that will work on dif
ferent parts of Forts strategic plan, sponsor
ing two Fort Scholars, and participating in 
Fort Forums each year. Tepper alumnae will 
also be featured as panelists at events in Wash
ington; DC, Los Angeles; and San Francisco.

---------------------------------------------------

A3.SEPTEMBER 13. 2004
Weather
?Romm
CED3
SdrDROXI
riTTi
G rimedi ncident
Disorderly Conduct 
3 September 2004, 15:04
A male at Sigma Alpha Epsilon was 
reported for throwing computer 
parts and glass out of a secondstory window. The subject was 
advised to clean up the debris or 
the entire house would be cited.
Suspicious Vehicle 
3 September 2004, 21:35
A male described as having a 
stocky build was reported to 
be driving repeatedly and very 
slowly past several females on the 
sidewalk.
Noise Complaint 
3 September 2004, 21:55
Several students at Cathedral 
Mansions were reported for being 
extremely loud and yelling vulgar 
words. They were given a warning 
and told that if the police were 
summoned again, they would be 
cited.
Fire Alarm
4 September 2004, 20:23
A fire alarm went off in Delta Tau 
Delta fraternity house. A guardian 
was called. There was no smoke 
and no fire, but there was a fog 
machine in the basement. The 
Pittsburgh Fire Department sent a 
fire engine and reset the alarm.
Aggravated Assault 
5 September 2004, 3:03
A female at Delta Upsilon reported 
that she had a beer can thrown at 
her face by an unidentified male 
in a red shirt.
Trash Fire
7 September 2004, 10:38
A garbage receptacle was found 
on fire in Hamburg Hall. The fire 
was reportedly extinguished with 
a nearby fire extinguisher.
Suspicious Person 
8 September 2004, 23:40
A suspicious male wearing a 
leather jacket was reported 
following a female on Morewood 
Avenue.
Theft
9 September 2004, 20:45
Several items, including $50 from 
a wallet, a cell phone, a pocket 
knife, and a Zippo lighter, were 
taken from an unlocked room in 
Webster Hall.
Disorderly Conduct 
9 September 2004,11:31
Two males were found fighting in 
the University Center circle. One 
left the scene and entered Delta 
Upsilon, where he was treated by 
EMS for a laceration above the 
left eye. The other headed up the 
driveway to Doherty Apartments. 
FMS was called to clean up glass 
and blood in the circle.
Strong Arm Robbery 
9 September 2004, 14:44
A white female in her mid-thirties 
attempted a strong arm robbery 
at the University Technology 
Development Center. She was 
held by others on the scene.
Compiled by Ali Kilduff
Liquor Law/DUl: 3 ill
Suspicious Activity: 3
III
Fire/Fire Alarm: 14
HU-IHL Hll
Theft: 7
IE II
Ca
II
Dis
m
Car Accident: 2
Disorderly Conduct: 5
Vandalism: 2
II
Noise Complaint: 3
HI
Assault: 1
I
Hanging loose at local luau
Tiffany Yun/Photo Staff
Derek Li from Kappa Delta Rho and Michelle Kim from Kappa Phi Lambda hang a piata during a luau 
on the Cut on Friday, September 10.
StatisticallySpeaking
Cost of Tuition for Resident First-Years Fall 2000 $24,600
Cost of Tuition for Resident First-Years Fall 2001 $ 2 5 > 6 J O
Cost of Tuition for Resident First-Years Fall 2002 $ 2 6,910
Cost of Tuition for Resident First-Years Fall 2003 $29,190
f
Cost of Tuition for Residnt First-Years Fall 2004 $30,650
Average increase in tutition 200-2004 
Average rate of inflation 2000-2004
5.67%
2.41%
, BOXEE 3 CECEO SE
A message from your Student Body President, Erik Michaels-Ober
rik Michaels-Ober
The report of the Presidential Commission was released 
to the campus community last Tuesday. It addresses is
sues raised by The Tartans publication of The Natrat last 
April 1.
Student Government played an important role in the 
creation of the Commissions report: former Student 
Body President, Dan Gilman, served as co-chair of the 
Commission with Director of Student Development John 
Hannon. Additionally, the Undergraduate Student Sen
ate and Graduate Student Assembly (GSA) passed sepa
rate resolutions denouncing the offensive content in The 
Natrat and expressing their anger and frustration at the 
damage it did to the student body.
The Senate resolution also acknowledged the positive 
contributions The Tartan has made to the campus com
munity as an organization and news source. It encour
aged The Tartan to take steps to produce a more empathic 
and professional newspaper. The Tartan has moved in this 
direction with the creation of two new positions: Execu
tive Officer and Ombudsman, filled by Mark Egerman and 
Kristina Wiltsee, respectively. I have worked closely with 
both of these students and trust that their leadership will 
help set the organization on the right course.
The GSA resolution also affirmed the First Amendment 
rights of the students involved in creating The Natrat and 
advised the administration against excessive disciplinary 
action against them, a recommendation supported by the 
majority of Commission members.
I would encourage you to read the Commissions report 
in its entirety. It offers recommendations not only for The 
Tartan, but also for the broader Carnegie Mellon com
munity. Student Government is committed to providing 
leadership to define and implement steps to meet these 
recommendations.
One recommendation to the University is to offer a 
broader range of courses in every discipline, creating an 
environment where it is easier for students to widen their 
perspectives by exploring beyond their academic concen
tration. Additionally, students are encouraged to look to 
the Pittsburgh community for diverse new opportunities.
One issue raised in the report is that students lack op
portunities and encouragement to engage in interperson
al relationships across cultural lines. To this end, Student
Body Vice President Julie Beckenstein is reconvening the 
Student Body Multicultural Council (SBMC), started last 
year by Vice President Gilbert Dussek. This committee 
brings together leaders of cultural organizations to inspire 
social events that unite and build understanding between 
the diverse members of our campus community. Julie and 
I will work with the legislative branches of Student Gov
ernment to make the SBMC a permanent institution, by 
writing it into the. Student Body Constitution.
The report also recommends that The Tartan must re
gain its financial sustainability. The Tartan is working with 
Student Body Vice President for Finance Steven Kling to
ward this goal. Some of the steps The Tartan has taken in
clude reducing expenses, increasing advertising revenue, 
improving recordkeeping, and preventing overspending. 
If these practices are followed, the organizations debt 
can be eliminated in five to 10 years.
I look forward to leading Student Governments efforts 
to support The Tartan as it seeks to reflect the voice of a 
student body that is sensitive to others, values diversity, 
and upholds the standards of the community.
Please do not hesitate to send email to pres@cmu.edu 
with your questions or comments about this issue.
THEARNb
yNKeRKev
InThisIssue:
News...................................
Crime & Incident............. As>
Science & Technology.,.... A6
Forum................................... Ag
Sports.................................A14
Pillbox......................................Bi
Classifieds........................... B13
Comics................................. B14
Calendar.............................. B19
 How Things Work: Digital 
Cameras
SciTech, A4
Red Team Update
News, A4
Water Reclamation Project
SciTech, A6
Gays in the Greek community
Forum, A10
The Ethics of Foie Gras _ . ^Forum, A9 * Carriere Mellon Crew
 Zenith Restaurant
Pillbox, B5
Metal Shop: Internal Bleeding
Pillbox, B7
Review: Cellular
Review: Criminal
Pillbox, B10  Comikaze
Pillbox, B8 
Pillbox, B9 
Pillbox, B18
Executive
Privilege
Mark Egerman
Its always strange for a newspa
per to be the subject of news. The 
Tartan is used to reporting, not 
being reported on. Yet this week, 
The Tartan was once again the 
subject of local newspapers as the 
Presidential Commission released 
its report. Newspapers such as the 
Post-Gazette and Tribune-Review 
covered the story as students 
began to discuss the report and its 
implications.
The report was the product 
of the Presidential Commission 
formed last semester. It is the col
lective effort of a number of cam
pus leaders who worked over the 
summer to create it. I feel that 
such an effort deserves a orresponding amount of deliberation 
and discussion. I would like to 
use this space to reflect upon the 
report.
A primary concern raised in 
reaction to the report was that of 
the Universitys possibly cracking 
down on the freedom of the press. 
As Executive Officer of The Tartan, 
I can assure our readers that there 
has been no attempt from the 
University to censor or control 
the papers weekly content. We 
continue to publish independently 
from administrative review, which 
is a freedom that both The Tartan 
and the University take very seri
ously.
The Tartan is a unique organiza
tion in that it is more than a news
paper: it is also a student organi
zation. We serve these two roles 
to the community, both as the stu
dent newspaper and as the oldest 
student organization on campus. 
The Tartan is subject to the same 
rules and regulations as other 
funded student organizations. Yet 
we also acknowledge an increased 
responsibility to the community 
as a leading source of news. These 
roles complement each other as 
students work together to produce 
the newspaper you are now read
ing. They are also, in fact, very 
distinct from each other.
It is crucial to note that the 
Universitys recommendations are 
not binding. It is up to The Tartan, 
as an organization, to react to 
these recommendations and to 
make changes to the organiza
tion as we see fit. This does not 
mean we take these recommenda
tions lightly or that we have no 
intention of taking steps towards 
implementing some of these sug
gestions.
Like any other student orga
nization, our staff changes with 
every incoming class of students. 
Nearly a hundred students work 
on The Tartan staff, and within 
four years almost every staff mem
ber will have graduated, leaving 
new students to take their place. 
We are both journalists and stu
dents, two tasks we all take seri
ously. We stress over exams and 
assignments, worry whether were 
in the right majors, and dont get 
enough sleep.
The Tartan failed as a paper 
and as an organization last year. 
It is only by embracing both of our 
roles that we will move forward. 
We are growing as an organiza
tion, restructuring our manage
ment, balancing our budget, and 
expanding our staff. We are also 
growing as a newspaper. We strive 
to uphold the highest standards 
of journalistic integrity and are 
doing our best to present the news 
to the University community.
The Tartan is one of the most 
rewarding and exciting organiza
tions to join at CMU. Where else 
can students work together to pro
duce something that impacts the 
campus community every week? 
There is little recourse to people 
who dont like what they read in 
major city newspapers, but the 
doors of The Tartan are always 
open. You can become the media. 
You can have your voice heard. 
The Tartan is moving forward; it 
is an exciting time to be involved. 
We value the recommendations 
the Commission has made, and 
actively seek input from all mem
bers of the community.
As Executive Officer of The 
Tartan, I look forward to leading 
The Tartan to great places as a 
newspaper and as an organiza
tion. If you would like to be a 
part of The Tartan, you need only 
to stop by the Tartan office. We 
are located on the third floor of 
the University Center. I invite all 
members of the Carnegie Mellon 
community to take part in their 
newspaper. A community news
paper like The Tartan is by neces
sity a collaborative effort. So come 
join us at The Tartan.

---------------------------------------------------

The best part? You get what you expect. The style 
and features you want No-hassle dealer experience. 
A payment that's easy on your wallet and lifestyle.
It's how youget there!
Her ideas created 
Explorer SportTrac.
And a media frenzy.
to.  i - I yg ?____get there
Here's the deal: one price, no haggling, cash 
in your pocket for more important things!
This "student discount" offers substantial savings 
on new Ford Motor Company vehicles based on set 
prices established by Ford's Employee Purchase Plan.
There's no catch - it's a unique offer, exclusive to 
select schools like yours. Save even more when 
you apply the current national incentives available 
on the vehicle you select.
She wanted to develop new materials for automotive uses. 
She ended up developing a brand new automotive category.
Candys ideas played a key role in the development of the tonneau cover 
for the Explorer SportTrac. She worked with suppliers to develop the 
concept. She designed the parts. She conducted testing. And 
she even worked with Ford assembly on installation.
And when the SportTrac was introduced to the world, so was 
Candy. The media actually mentioned her by name in several 
publications. Of course, at Ford Motor Company weve 
always believed that credit should go where credit is due.
And in the case of the Explorer SportTrac, Candy 
deserves all the credit in the world. Imagine where your 
ideas could take you when you explore the world of
Ford Motor Company.
Ford Recruiting Information Session for 
Finance, Information Technology (IT), and y 
Engineering (Product Development): Monday September 20, 2004, 7 p.m - 9 p.mSee TartanTrak for Location
Come visit the IT & PD Booths at the Technical Opportunities Conference on September 21st,2004 and the Finance Booth at the BusinessOpportunities Conference on September 22nd, 2004
Visit us at www.mycareer.ford.com and learn more about the 
people, the products, and the potential of Ford Motor Company.
We think youll like what you see.
By choice, we are an Equal Opportunity Employer 
committed to a culturally diverse workforce.
I
ChrCh i masaaa rsHehrH

---------------------------------------------------

WWW veil
Join Us
morganstanley.com/careers
Interested in a Career in Technology?
GOURMET PIZZE * PANINI * STRQMBOU * INSALATA ? BRUSCHETT *
H ' - 
FACULTY 
& STAFF
VV'|
iww T<*ne Uft * AdfltMmri [*!;}. .jusr*. 
P*ISMake iNd csupwi n ec h>wmv-ii, i P ^|r:>xf'Vf ; n frvt&i rA"l1 Pan Pi.r*.1 v wV J *. f *>* 1 r%\5lPitiM*. IMtW prc*^ wto1 AA
3 rd ff ftj. biffisi dsi wy eMF vlVl
! -Topping
Grande Pizza
I -Topping;
Grande Pizza
NOW OPEN AT 1AMI
Snnriiiv*Thiirs<laY 10*ro *3iNe 
nrfri<iy*S?rtsird3<y' 10m *
M#k# fi  
Pan Pma fw 
^VQQCJ;J*jw ^ ^ pu<
feci S** mb i*! 5 ft sitei i*- CtNfM $N arte
Paw Pkra for(ifi'fy 0%t%el
uni
i <'> 
j&fr'Arrt4.VHI':"A
fi#** (MH!CMfsc t*w Jthi tstsiiiilItM
mmRRo?Romto:landBEHBrmlalj.f4121 687-95!
Real time trading systems, grid computing, network engineering, 
database administration and information security are just a few of 
the technology needs of a top Wall Street firm.
If this sounds interesting and you would like to find out more about an 
exciting career in Technology, please join Morgan Stanleys Information 
Technology Division at the TOC on Tuesday, September 21st.
Visit and apply online at: 
www.morganstanley.com/careers/recruiting
MorganStanley
. ' c m
Morgan Stanley is an equal opporttfnity/affirmative action employer committed to workforce diversity. (M/F/D/V)  2004 Morgan Stanley

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 13, 2004
VIOLIN LEGEND
SEPTEMBER 17*19
BACH: Double Violin Concerto 
BEETHOVEN. Violin Concerto in D Mafor 
BEETHOVEN Symphony No. 7
PeurRKe tuvl
TICKETS: |M
On58te2h?aiiifsbeieffe
the concert-^
PtNH&S BJKRMN fdClf & violin
fidrSs ZMm GndOMprfcmif m m
PIANO SENSATION
SIPTEMBil 25-26
ROUSE: iglt (must story ofm thMe 
Greek immortal)
ICWIKVSKV: Piano Concerto No. 1 
SMCr-SAENS; Spiptay fio. 3,
rgan Syropta/" MARIN ALSPconductor
Tepper School joins Port program
TEPPER, from Al
Were committed to excellence. Increasing the 
diversity of our student body is an important way to 
enhance our excellence, and increasing the propor
tion of women in our MBA program is a key part of 
our diversity goals, said Stewart. Over the last 10 
years, the proportion of women enrolling in our full
time MBA program has ranged from 17% to 29%. 
Women are underrepresented among our students. 
Were delighted to be working with a like-minded 
group of top business schools and corporations to 
help reach our goals.
Members of the Fort Foundation include com
panies such as JP Morgan Chase, Goldman Sachs
& Co., and 20 schools that include the University of 
Pennsylvania and Yale.
Ive always believed in the power of the individ
ual - regardless of the gender, said Vrushali Paunikar, a freshman business major in the Tepper School 
who overlooks the uneven gender population in her 
classes. Business is the way our world works. The 
world is changing and women have to be a part of 
that revolution.
As the semester continues, Kmetzo is now ap
proaching her gender-lopsided classes with a differ
ent approach. I dont let it get to me. I wont let the 
guys intimidate me, she said.
Chris Heinz addresses policy students
HEINZ, from page Al
In his speech titled Perspectives from the Cam
paign Trail, Heinz highlighted his involvement in 
the John Kerry presidential campaign and matters 
of public policy. He described his involvement in the 
campaign as a wonderful experience that brought 
him closer to his family and made him live in the 
moment.
Heinz observed that, although the time before 
naming a nominee at the convention is usually one 
characterized by low activity, this year was differ
ent. In particular he was displeased that media were 
focusing almost exclusively on the fundraising race 
during the early coverage of the campaign. Heinz 
continued, The battle to raise money became the 
political news. Heinz expressed his hope that the 
media would focus more on each candidates stance 
on important issues than on fundraising and trivial 
information about the candidates personal lives.
Midway through his speech, Heinz posed the ques
tion: How can we make national politics local? He 
cited his interactions with the residents of Iowa and 
New Hampshire, people who displayed interest in 
politics and listened objectively to candidates posi
tions, and encouraged the audience to become more 
active in politics.
After his speech, he took questions from students. 
Coleman noted that, The Heinz students asked 
some tough and probing questions about the cam
paign and the electoral process and I think he an
swered them thoughtfully and with a lot of candor. 
Heinz praised Howard Deans campaign efforts to 
connect voters with politics via the Internet claim
ing that The tool of the Internet has really allowed 
people to have a sense of collective action.
While Heinz may have been disappointed by some 
of the things he had encountered on the campaign 
trail, he ended his speech by claiming that he loved 
working for Kerry and encouraged students to get 
involved.
Kristin's Story presented in Rangos
by Tiffany Yun
Junior Staffwriter
In Rangos Hall on Tuesday, 
the Sexual Assault Advisors, in 
cooperation with the Interfrater
nity Council, a campus sorority, 
and Dean of Student Affairs Mi
chael Murphy, presented Kristins 
Story, a lecture dealing with 
acquaintance rape and suicide. 
The events primary speaker was 
Andrea Cooper, the mother of 
Kristin Cooper, a young woman 
who committed suicide after be
ing raped.
According to one of the co
chairs, who wished to be uniden
tified, around 150 people came 
by. The male-to-female ratio was 
about fifty-fifty. A number of 
organizations were present to 
provide resources during the pre
sentation, including CAPS (Coun
seling and Psychology Services), 
PAAR (Pittsburgh Action Against 
Rape), the Sexual Assault Advi
sors, and housefellows.
Ms. Cooper began by detailing 
the events of seven years ago. In 
the summer after Kristins first 
year in college, she was raped by 
one of her summer coworkers. 
Cooper said Kristin showed signs 
of depression but she thought 
they were merely a result of Kris
tins breakup with her boyfriend.
That New Years, Kristin com
mitted suicide. She left only a di
ary that gathered her thoughts. 
Cooper cited a poem from Kris
tins diary during the event. The 
co-chair commented that it de
scribed her feelings and how an
gry she was.
Ms. Cooper did not learn about 
Kristins assault until after her 
suicide. She spoke to some of 
Kristins close friends and learned 
of her daughters rape, but was 
unable to find concrete proof of 
the rapists identity. Ms. Cooper 
decided to write a letter to the 
one of Kristins friends whom she 
suspected. However, he never re
sponded. Ms. Cooper asked the 
male audience what they would 
do if they received the letter but 
did not commit the assault. One 
of the students replied, I would 
have wanted to get the guy who 
did it.
At this point Ms. Cooper 
wasnt looking to blame anyone, 
said the co-chair. She wanted 
people to know about this and 
how to prevent it from happen
ing. A few months after Kristins 
suicide, Delta Delta Delta and 
Alpha Chi Omega, two sororities 
that Ms. Cooper and Kristin were 
in respectively, went into partner
ship with Cooper and helped her 
create Kristins Story. For the past 
seven years, Cooper has present
ed Kristins Story at conventions 
and orientations.
Kristins Story is just one of the 
various events the Sexual Assault 
Advisors hold to promote aware
ness of assault and its conse
quences. As of fall 2004, Carnegie 
Mellon University has 45 sexual
assault advisors. Anita Barkin, 
the Universitys Director of Stu
dent Health Services, said that 
if anyone is sexually assaulted, 
seeking medical care is very im
portant because of infections and 
pregnancies. Barkin explained 
that the role of the SAA is to as
sist the person in figuring out 
what actions they want to take 
and to guide them throughout 
the process. Assistance includes 
medical screenings, as well as rec
ommended counseling, academic 
support and safety adjustments in 
housing and classrooms. Every
thing is confidential.
Barkin explained that there are 
many resources to which sexual 
assault victims can go for help. 
These include housefellows, the 
Sexual Assault Advisors, Magee 
Womens Hospital in Oakland, 
and Student Health Services.
People need to understand 
that an absence of no does not 
mean yes, said Barkin.
After the presentation, Ms. 
Cooper adjourned to Andys Eat
ery for a question-and-answer 
session. Caryl Tuma, a senior and 
another co-chair for Kristins Sto
ry, said many people stayed to ask 
Ms. Cooper specific things about 
the event, and it really touched 
Andrea. T\ima also said that An
drea has an effective way of tell
ing the story, but this shouldnt 
keep women from socializing and 
going out. Its just something that 
we should be aware of in the back 
of our heads.Nader holds rally in Shadyside church
NADER, from page A4
a very good chance I will bite the bullet and vote 
Nader, because Kerry could be doing more, and Im 
not sure Kerry will do anything to protect our rights 
to freedom of speech. Torcaso was concerned with 
the Kerry rally he attended, where no signs were al
lowed within the rally, presumably to prevent antiKerry demonstrators from making a scene. Ive al
ways been my own thinker. Ive always liked rocking 
the boat, and so I might [vote Nader], even though 
Ive been campaigning against him.
A lot of people are anti-Nader because they are 
anti-Bush, said Jennifer Henry, a PhD student in 
chemistry. They dont like either candidate, and a 
majority of people seem to be voting for Kerry just 
because they dont want Bush, and I think that is a 
terrible sentiment.
After leaving the rally, Nader went directly to a 
protest at the Western Psychiatric Institute and ClinTiffany Yun/Photo Staff
ic, part of the University of Pittsburgh Medical Cen
ter, where unionized nurses are protesting over pay 
raises currently under negotiation with UPMC.
Princeton
Bendheim Center for Finance
T\m degree, designed! ro be -completed in a mluta&pi of two 
semesten, prepares for a wide range of careers in the financial industry 
including financial engineering,, risk in&nagemerii and quantitative 
trading, quantitative asset BMnageinent.and financial forecasting*
PRINCETON'S MASTER 
IN FINANCE PROVIDES;
A rigorous core curriculum! 
a wide range of steclftw coursas 
and extensive career assistance
Applications foe enrollment in Stprember 2005 
ar by January 2. 2fiD5 (0&miw .2, 24 
J&r Mttdtdifv r&idiffg &se.tatd? ofNorth Amanea/.
For daalbd Infornati! St 
tMpzfiwwwwimmm&ikfbd
Give a friend the gift of
Give one of our gift certificates to someone who really needs to chill.
Students at CMU Russian House 
react to Beslan school tragedy
OSSETIA, from page Al
mentioned that the situation is complicated by the 
fact that politics between separate countries are in
volved. The Russian House officers say that conflict 
in general is profitable to the military, pointing out 
that many soldiers in Russia set up roadblocks and 
charge people to get through. They also think that 
quite a bit of corruption may be involved. Leonard 
Apeltsin, a member of Russian House and a senior 
in biological sciences and CS, stated that [a]fter we 
watched the Towers collapse in flame, America cried 
in outrage never again. But history repeats itself. 
Daily. And we do nothing.
In an attempt to offer aid and raise money, mem
bers of Russian House have printed flyers to be placed 
around Pittsburgh. These flyers contain information 
about ways people can donate to the International
Foundation for Terror Act Victims. The foundation 
claims that in only its first week of raising money for 
Beslan victims, it has collected donations totaling 
$646,561.
Currently, Russian House has no events planned, 
but its officers hope to meet with the officers of a 
similar group from the University of Pittsburgh in 
the near future to discuss what they can do.
What action Russia may take against terrorism re
mains to be seen, but some Russian House members 
see few alternatives. Remember, stated Apeltsin 
when addressing the issue of what should be done 
on a global scale, there is no negotiating with the 
heart of darkness.
Any student that would like to donate money to 
Beslan victims should visit www.moscowhelp.org. 
Students interested in attending Russian House social 
events can send e-mail to russianh@andrew.cmu. 
edu.
355 Fifth Avenue, Suite 205  Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
412.201.1777 Fax: 412.201.1780  E-mail: Backmail@Yahoo.com 
www.backrubs-and-bodyworks.com
T> A PFPTTT QBAl/AJtl U DO
BODYWORKS
On-campus seated massage  Convenient location 
Custom-designed gift certificates for any budget
\V

---------------------------------------------------

13 September 2004 ____________________________________________ THE TARTAN__________________________________________________________________________________
by Corinne Pascale
Assistant Science & Technology Editor
On Wednesday, Carnegie Mellons Red Team received 
a Hummer HI named Highlander, from one of its spon
sors, AM General. Highlanders arrival was celebrated 
at Newell-Simon Hall. At the meeting, the Red Teams 
Leader, Robotics Institute Fredkin Research Professor 
William Red Whittaker, vowed victory for the team in 
the second Grand Challenge.
The red HI is the first of two vehicles to be donated by 
AM General. The civilian edition of the Hummer lacks the 
military features of its predecessor, no longer protecting 
against ballistics and bearing no rifle mounts. However, 
it benefits from new technology; the team will spend just 
over a year preparing it for its big day. Plans for outfitting 
the vehicle involve lasers, high-end computers, on-board 
computer vision systems, and sophisticated navigation 
technology.
At any given time, the team consists of about a hundred 
core members from an alliance of corporations, sponsors, 
and interested individuals. The number of team work
ers fluctuates based on the number of volunteers and 
students taking part in the 18-unit Mobile Robot Design 
course.
Last year, Carnegie Mellons Red Team took part in the 
first DARPA Grand Challenge. The Challenge presented 
competitors with a tough goal: Given only two hours 
notice of the course layout, each team digitally mapped 
out a route for its autonomous vehicle. After the races 
start, data was no longer transmitted between a team 
and its vehicle. Each robot had to cross a portion of the 
Nevada desert with a relatively small amount of infor
mation about its path. Had any vehicles completed the 
course, the winner would have been determined by the 
fastest completion time less than 10 hours.
The standout vehicle and leader of the race was the 
Red Teams Sandstorm, an upgraded 1986 Humvee. It 
traveled the farthest of any competitor, making a strong 
passage through seven and a half miles of the two hun
dred and ten mile journey. Few competitors made it to 
the starting line, and, of these, many did not even pass 
the first mile.
The second Grand Challenge will take place October 
8, 2005; the Red Team will return with a pair of modi
fied vehicles. Although the rules of next years Grand 
Challenge are essentially the same, a new group of com
petitors will be pitted against each other on a slightly 
smaller course layout filled with natural and man-made 
obstacles. The prize has also been inflated from one to 
two million dollars as a result of last years lack of a win
ner.
Scientists at Canadas 
Sunnybrook Regional Cancer 
Center are testing a prostate can
cer treatment to ward off breast 
cancer recurrence. Prior efforts at 
adapting the treatment had failed 
due to breast tissues malleability. 
A specialized plastic device now 
allows surgeons to target a spe
cific area for treatment by inject
ing 50 radioactive seeds into a 
site where a tumor was removed. 
The palladium-containing seeds 
release radiation to destroy any 
remaining cancer cells with mini
mal side effects.
Source: Canadian Press
Cameras predict 
drive-thru volume
HyperActive Technologies, 
a Pittsburgh company, is cur
rently testing a new system to 
predict how much food needs to 
be cooked at a fast food restau
rant during times of high volume. 
The mixture of computer intel
ligence and rooftop cameras is 
named HyperActive Bob, and is 
present at seven area restaurants. 
The cameras calculate how many 
vehicles are entering the drivethru and, based on their sizes and 
amount of potential passengers, 
suggest the quantity of food to 
be cooked. The technology cuts 
down on waste and reduces wait
ing time. Future additions will 
include predictions on what the 
occupants of a vehicle are likely 
to order.
Source: News and Observer
Compiled by 
Corinne Pascale
How Things Work: Digital Cameras
Source: The Guardian
Bacteria found to 
reduce toxic waste
by J.T. Trollman
Photo Editor
The Kodak Brownie revolution
ized photography in 1900 when 
it was introduced, promising both 
cheaper and simpler means to pro
duce a photograph. It brought pho
tography to the masses.
One hundred years later, the 
digital camera has supplanted the 
Brownie as our new form of rev
olution. In a sense, its brought 
photo development directly to the 
users: Simply connect your camera 
to a computer and download the 
shots. However, its also compli
cated the process far more than 
the average person wants to think 
about, using silicon and electrons 
instead of chemically-coated sheets 
of gelatin and celluloid. The end 
process is very different, but at 
least th basics havent changed: 
Photography is still done by using 
a glass or plastic lens to focus avail
able light from a scene onto a sur
face that reacts to that light.
That surface actually changes 
depending on the type of digital 
camera that you own, but the two 
possible options that replace film 
act largely the same. Most digital 
cameras today use a charge cou
pled device (CCD) sensor, while 
others use complementary metaloxide semiconductors (CMOS). 
Both sensors are found in digital 
cameras you find every day, and 
both technologies were developed 
as early as the 1960s for imaging 
capabilities. Both are also semi
conductors coated with an array 
of photo sites that each represent a 
pixel of information. The number 
of megapixels that your camera 
has is essentially just the number 
of millions of photo sites that the 
manufacturer was able to cram 
onto their CCD or CMOS sensor. 
For example, a 3.3-megapixel cam
era has 3.3 million such receptors.
But while both receptors use 
these photo sites to turn light pho
tons into a string of digital ones 
and zeros, the ways they accom
plish that process is slightly dif
ferent. CCDs, which are far more 
common than CMOS sensors, take 
the analog information collected
by each photo site collects and buf
fers it; afterwards, it sends the data 
in bulk to a separate analog-todigital processor. By contrast, each 
photo site in a CMOS sensor has 
its own transistor that allows each 
pixel of information to be read indi
vidually. However, these transis
tors mean that there is less space 
on the CMOS sensor to actually 
collect light. It also means that the 
sensor does the analog-to-digital 
conversion itself, and outputs ones 
and zeros without a separate pro
cessor.
All of this means, simply, that 
CMOS sensors are traditionally 
more bulky than CCDs and pro
duce poorer images because they 
are less light-sensitive. However, 
they are also far less expensive to
Alexander Meseguer/Layout Manager
make, and use a lot less power than 
their CCD buddies. Up until a year 
or two ago, CCDs were considered 
the choice for higher-end cameras, 
while CMOS sensors were limited 
to cheaper alternatives; recently, 
however, CMOS technology has 
improved enough that even some 
professional digital single lens 
reflex (SLR) cameras use them. 
CCDs still dominate the market, 
but that may shift in the coming 
years. Both surfaces replace the 
age-old film technique in favor of 
faster usage and quicker process
ing. While the day when digital 
photography completely replaces 
film may be long in coming, theres 
no questioning how rapidly its 
found its way into the hands of 
todays consumers.
SriTprh Briefs
Serbia to teach 
evolution in class
A recent proposal from edu
cation minister Ljiljana Colic of 
Serbia would have prevented 
Darwins theory of evolution 
from being part of the countrys 
curriculum unless creationism 
could be taught with it. Her deci
sion prompted an outcry from 
the scientific community that 
accused the Orthodox Church of 
becoming too involved in Serbian 
politics. Prime Minister Vojislav 
Kostunica soon overturned the 
policy. Darwins theory that 
modern man evolved over billions 
of years has long been favored by 
scientists.
Source: BBC
Unexplained force 
disrupts spacecraft
Both of Americas Pioneer 10 
and 11 probes have been unex
pectedly affected by gravity at the 
edge of our solar system. After 
the spacecraft had been travel
ing for more than 30 years, sci
entists at the Jet Propulsion Lab 
in Pasadena and the Los Alamos 
National Laboratory detected the 
irregularities using NASAs Deep 
Space Network dishes. Anomalies 
in trajectory are occurring on a 
regular basis, a result of possible 
dark matter, the theoretical 
source of anomalous gravitation
al forces first described by Albert 
Einstein. Another possibility is 
that there are weaknesses in the 
current theory of gravity.
Scientists Kevin OConnor and 
Patrick Ward of University College 
Dublin have discovered bacteria 
that turn the toxic byproduct sty
rene into biodegradable plastic. It 
was created by taking the natural
ly occurring Pseudomonas putida 
bacteria and giving it styrene as 
its only energy and carbon source. 
The result was the strain CA-3, 
which turns styrene into polyhydroxyalkanoate (PHA), a plastic 
polymer that has many uses.
Source: Wired News
Seeds fight breast 
cancer recurrence
Architecture students create eco-friendly outdoor spotlights
by Ann Wootton
Junior Staffwriter
A new sustainable architecture project 
is being constructed outside of Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall. A group of archi
tecture students, advised by Professor 
Stephen Lee, have designed and built a 
solar-powered energy project. The device 
converts sunlight into energy, which then 
illuminates outdoor spotlights once the 
sun goes down.
During the daytime, the project 
uses solar power to pump water from 
ground level up 50 feet to the Intelligent 
Workplace  a hotspot for sustainable 
design research and implementation  
on top of Margaret Morrison. The water 
is stored in a large tank until nightfall 
when it is released down to ground level. 
As the water travels downward, it passes 
through a turbine and creates hydroelec
tric power. This power is then used to light 
the outdoor spotlights.
Fourth-year architecture major Dianne 
Chia, one of the students involved in the 
project, said, Theres something poetic 
about it collecting energy from daylight to 
use to light up the night.
The students see their project as 
strongly related to the Solar Decathlon 
project, also run by Stephen Lee. The 
Solar Decathlon is a project where an 
interdisciplinary group of students design 
and construct a sustainable building. This 
building is then taken to a national com
petition in Washington, D.C. Fourth-year
architecture major Geoff Di Beneditto, 
another member of the group, feels that 
sustainable projects such as these are a 
demonstration of how things could be 
done.
One strength of the Margaret Morrison 
and Solar Decathlon projects is that the 
students are actively involved every step 
of the way. Under Lees guidance, they 
design the project, select and order the 
materials for the construction, and finally 
build and maintain the project. Chia, 
along with Di Beneditto, Jeremy Forsythe, 
Kevin Wei, and Xian Huay (the other 
members of the group), can now sit back 
and say, We built it, we designed all 
this.
Instead of just reading about abstract 
concepts in a textbook, many students 
and professors on campus are pushing to 
integrate more direct, hands-on learning 
into their curriculum. Interdisciplinary 
courses such as Green Visions/Grey 
Infrastructure, Larry Cartwrights 
Design Build, and Creating Virtual 
Worlds challenge students to come up 
with innovative solutions to real-life prob
lems. Hands-on work gives students con
crete examples of how the abstract con
cepts they study in class can be applied in 
exciting and beneficial ways to the world 
around them.
Supporting this ideal of sustainable 
design, Carnegie Mellon has become a 
leader in the campus environmental move
ment, and the University has taken great 
steps towards building a more sustainable 
community. Starting with New House,
the countrys first LEED (Leadership In 
Energy and Environmental Design) certi
fied dorm, green design and architecture 
are now the rule rather than the exception 
for all new construction on campus. In 
addition, 6 percent of all the energy used 
to light up those buildings now comes 
from wind power.
Chia said that projects like theirs speak 
about student initiative, student life
and that our campus should be proud to 
have student-led projects such as these 
as part of its community. The Margaret 
Morrison project, funded by SURF (Small 
Undergraduate Research Fellowship), will 
be on display through October. The instal
lation is not intended to be a permanent 
replacement for powering these lights but 
is an experiment in finding creative and 
new ways to approach sustainable design.
Above: Kevin Wei, Xiaoxian Huay, Dianne Chia, and Geoffrey Di Beneditto stand atop the water 
storage tank at the base of their creation (left to right). Left: The turbine power generator that runs 
the spotlights at night, covered with condensation on Sunday morning.
CMU Red Team 
gears up for 
next challenge

---------------------------------------------------

TcruMirAiI CWrilMiwinLLi
y
UPPORTUNITIES
PARirrnmiArCONFERENCE
Want a job? Visit the TOC, Carnegie Mellons biggest job and 
internship exposition. Representatives from more than 90 high-tech 
companies will be on hand to recruit students, bringing engineering, 
computer science, information systems, and other students focused 
on technical careers together with companies seeking to fulfill their 
high-tech needs.
Remember to bring your Carnegie Mellon ID card.
Tuesday, September 21 
10 am to 4 pm
University Center Gymnasium
sponsored by

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
13 September 2004___________________________________________________________THE TARTAN________________________________________________________________?ag A.
Caveat Emptor: credit 
card vendors on campus
At the beginning of the semester, 
theyre everywhere  vendors set up 
around the University Center, offering 
students everything from cellular phone 
plans and cars to posters and jewel
ry. Perhaps the most tempting product 
offered, though, is the credit card. Its 
convenient to use, easy to obtain, and, 
more often than not, a free T-shirt or cof
fee mug is included in the deal.
If improperly used, however, a credit 
card is also a catastrophe waiting to 
happen. A student without a fixed 
income can easily overspend or miss 
a payment, paving the way for certain 
financial disaster. The majority of credit 
card vendors at colleges fail to offer 
appropriate material or advice on how 
to manage credit. According to an article 
by the Associated Press titled A Lesson 
for Credit Card Vendors, the University 
of California, Berkeley recendy started 
prohibiting vendors from soliciting on 
campus unless they hand out pamphlets 
detailing the financial risks of bad credit. 
The University of Texas at Dallas has 
completely prohibited vendor booths on 
its campus. Other state universities now 
prohibit vendors from using the lure of tshirts or other free merchandise to entice 
students to sign up.
Carnegie Mellon, however, has yet 
to take those steps. Vendors are still 
allowed on campus, provided they fol
low the Policies and Procedures guide 
set forth by the University. While the 
guide is explicit about parking, smoking, 
table space, and postering, it offers no
Everyone in the nation is concerned for 
the health and safety of Floridas citizens, 
besieged first by Hurricane Charley, then 
by Hurricane Frances, and now threat
ened by Hurricane Ivan. But it is strange 
that Florida is crowded with people 
yet unprepared for hurricane weather. 
Florida has more mobile homes than any 
other state in the U.S., and according to 
Carl Hiaasen of The Miami Herald, every 
one of them is future storm debris, tem
porarily at rest. This pattern is typical of 
state and municipal development poli
cies that are designed to benefit build
ers at the expense of homeowners and 
taxpayers. With many indicators point
ing to progressively worse weather in 
the future, Florida has a responsibility 
to change its direction. It is a waste of 
money and human spirit to build and 
rebuild without truly accounting for the 
realities of Florida hurricanes.
As tragic as the destruction of the past 
month has been, no one should have 
been surprised: Florida has always had 
hurricanes. In 1947, two hurricanes and a 
tropical storm hit the state in a fiveweek 
period, causing tens of millions of dollars 
in damages. From 1966 to Hurricane 
Andrew in 1992, Florida enjoyed a 
remarkable 26 years of hurricane-free 
weather, encouraging an explosion of 
growth. Over 4.5 million people now 
live on the South Florida coast from the 
Florida Keys to Palm Beach, a stretch of 
land that is ground zero for hurricanes.
In the calm from 1966 to 1992, devel
opers built throughout South Florida. 
Loose zoning laws and poorly-enforced 
housing codes resulted in shoddy con
struction that could not stand up to a 
hurricane. This was proven by Hurricane 
Andrew, which destroyed 18,000 mobile 
homes across Florida and Louisiana: 
mobile homes that had been advertised 
as Hurricane Resistive. Insured losses 
from the storm totaled $15.5 billion, 
a figure that bankrupted many small 
insurance companies.
specifications on how vendors may per
suade students to use their products, 
something that should be regulated. Last 
week, representatives of a credit card 
company sought to gain the attention of 
passing students by bullying them into 
their booth. If a student refused, he or 
she was berated until out of earshot. 
While this was not technically an alterca
tion, it was a nuisance that should have 
been prevented.
An issue like this deserves particular 
attention at Carnegie Mellon for two rea
sons. Firstly, many CMU students are of 
an international background, and their 
experience with the American finan
cial and credit system may be limited. 
Secondly, CMU students and their fami
lies are already shouldering a substantial 
economic burden merely by attending 
the school. Carnegie Mellon first-years 
pay as much as $42,000 for tuition, room, 
and board. Should a student accrue credit 
card debt, it could have a far more dras
tic impact than initially thought. While 
the offer of low introductory rates may 
seem safe enough, credit card companies 
usually raise the rate to standard levels 
long before students can even start mak
ing initial payments.
Students have complained to the 
University about vendors before. In 
September 2001, students protested 
against soliciting on campus. If Carnegie 
Mellon is concerned about its students, it 
would do well to follow the example set 
by colleges around the country and place 
limits on credit card vendors.
Following the storm, the state changed 
its policies to maintain the private insur
ance market but gave only marginal 
attention to holding builders account
able. Many companies had threatened 
to pull out of the Florida market, a move 
that would have stopped the continued 
and rapid growth of new homes.
There are proven alternatives to 
Floridas current policy of poorly planned 
growth. Stricter codes for wind-proof 
buildings and rigorous enforcement of 
these codes would reduce storm loss
es. Builders throughout the state have 
fought these initiatives, placing a higher 
priority on making money than on saving 
lives and property. Rather than encour
aging homeowners to settle in the highrisk areas, the state government could 
offer incentives for long-term planning. 
Survivable housing would force Florida 
to grow at a slower rate and more care
fully, saving both the government and 
the taxpayers in the long run.
Some suggest that the people of 
Florida can tolerate annual demolition 
or even benefit from the reconstruction 
spending. The Orlando Sentinel quoted 
Jim McCabe, a University of Louisville 
economics professor, as saying: A year 
from now, the positive impact might still 
be felt. The residents and business own
ers of Florida should all agree that the 
destruction of their homes and store
fronts is a positive impact. The groups 
that benefit most from reconstruction 
are the developers and construction com
panies that fought against safe homes in 
the first place.
The decisions necessary for recon
struction are an important opportunity 
for Florida. After Hurricane Andrew the 
state implemented many changes, most 
of which were positive steps, but never 
questioned the foundation of the state on 
continued growth and construction. The 
costs of Charley and Frances should make 
Floridas citizens look at their future and 
move in a new direction.
This letter is in response to Mark 
Egermans column [Darfur: more com
plicated than it seems, 9/7/04]. We 
were stunned to read his attempt to 
present a more complicated perspec
tive of the genocide in Darfur, though 
it should first be noted that he did not 
offer one source to support his conjec
tures.
His primary claim is that there are 
actually two sides to this conflict 
because it exists against the backdrop 
of a twenty-year long civil war in Sudan. 
This does not, of course, preclude the 
indisputable fact that the genocide 
within the Darfur region has been over
whelmingly perpetuated by one group 
and its allies in Khartoum. In the words 
of Human Rights Watch, The uncon
trolled presence of Janjaweed in the 
burned countryside, and in burned and 
abandoned villages, has driven civilians 
into camps and settlements outside the 
larger towns, where the Janjaweed kill, 
rape, and pillage  even stealing emer
gency relief items  with impunity. 
Yet Egerman claims we should be satis
fied because the Sudanese government 
tried and convicted six Janjaweed.
It requires quite an imagination to 
cast the forced deportation of a million 
innocent people, the murder of over
The production of foie gras, French for 
fatty liver, is banned in 15 countries. 
A similar prohibition against oversized 
duck liver is pending in California. At 
home, nearly a dozen local restaurants 
this year have tried to make Pittsburgh 
Foie Gras-Free.
The process of ramming metal tubes 
down ducks throats and then forcing air 
and food into them constantly is cruelty 
to animals, said John Burton, president 
pro tem of the California Senate and 
sponsor of the foie gras bill, according 
to the San Jose Mercury News.
Foie gras producers pump a third of 
the birds body weight directly into their 
digestive systems with a long metal pipe 
several times daily. The animals livers 
grow to be about 10 times their healthy 
size. The animals  about 500,000 of 
them each year in the U.S. alone  are 
confined in filth where they are unable 
to swim, nest, graze, fly, or carry out 
other natural behavior. Ducks can live 
for up to 18 years, but they are slaugh
tered for foie gras within four months 
of birth.
This force-feeding results in hepatic 
lipidosis, a type of liver disease. If eating 
a bile-secreting organ is not gross on its 
own, foie gras is truly sick.
People everywhere now grasp just 
how intolerable foie gras force-feeding 
is. Although Israel is the third-leading 
producer of foie gras in the world, its 
ban goes into effect in 2005. Even in 
industry leader France, new legislation 
will improve the animal welfare stan
dards in foie gras production by the end 
of this year.
California is one of only two U.S. states 
where foie gras is produced. The foie 
gras issue generated more letters to the 
states Senate Business and Professions 
Committee than any other issue this 
year. After decisive approval in both the 
Senate and Assembly, some insiders say 
that Gov. Schwarzenegger is likely to 
sign the ban into law this month.
With this growing consciousness 
about foie gras production, it is no won
der so many Pittsburgh restaurants have 
pledged no longer to sell foie gras.
The local animal rights group Voices 
for Animals (VFA) began contacting 
local restaurants in January regarding 
their sales of foie gras. Steelhead Grill 
replied it had removed the dish from
thirty thousand civilians, and the sys
tematic use of rape as a weapon of war, 
as an ethnic conflict (which implies 
two sides of equal guilt).
Historically there are always peo
ple willing to argue for inaction dur
ing times of genocide. Examples of 
unstopped genocides abound in the 
twentieth century: Rwanda, Cambodia, 
East Timor, the Armenian genocide, and 
the Holocaust itself. Sadly, such argu
ments have been historically successful 
in stalling concerted action until it was 
too late.
Yaron Rachlin & Lisa Krebs
Authors Reponse: The focus of my article 
wasnt on the situation itself but on how 
it is being represented. I didnt say we 
should be satisfied with the Sudanese 
governments treatment of the Janjaweed, 
but that we do not hear about it. I main
tain that the coverage of this situation is 
being portrayed in a way to encourage 
U.S. involvement with a specific aim. I 
return a question to the authors: wouldnt 
it strike you as awkward if the African 
Union sent troops to Kosovo in 1999? I 
continue to support a local solution to this 
problem: Involving African Union troops 
is the same solution proposed by HRW.
its menu. Since then, VFA has met with 
and persuaded eight other restaurants 
to stop selling gourmet cruelty.
VFAs Foie Gras-Free Pittsburgh cam
paign has had success in educating res
taurants and consumers about foie gras. 
After protesting outside Bikki for one 
half-hour in July, the activists received 
a satisfying note signed by owner Bikki 
Kochar: Foie gras will no longer be 
served at Bikki Restaurant. It will be 
taken off the menu immediately.
Other local restaurants stopped sell
ing foie gras after meeting with VFA 
members. Bill Fuller, corporate chef of 
the Big Burrito Group, acknowledged 
that other patrons had also complained 
about the sale of foie gras. According 
to the Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, Fuller 
said he wont serve foie gras unless 
the ducks are treated humanely. Kaya, 
Eleven, and two of Big Burritos other
As a member of the Greek community 
at Carnegie Mellon, I was disappoint
ed in the Tartans treatment of Kappa 
Sigma [Fraternities take steps in right 
direction, 9/07/04]. Last year, I was as 
dismayed as anyone in our community 
at the behaviors that caused these men 
to lose their fraternity charter. However, 
I have since become educated about 
what Kap Sig is trying to do to sal
vage its organization. The remaining 
brothers are attempting to keep their 
colony alive by doing things right. Their 
recruitment may not be subject to spe
cific Inter-Fraternity Council policy, 
but the Kap Sigs are recruiting with as 
much integrity as most CMU fraterni
ties. We cannot expect these men to 
rise from the ashes if we dont even 
give them a chance to work with our 
Greek community without fear of exclu
sion and judgment. I challenge all of 
the fraternities on this campus to care
fully examine their own recruitment 
activities, as well as their hazing prac
tices, before they condemn the efforts of 
a new and improving Kappa Sigma.
Sincerely,
Anne DiGiovanni 
President, Panhellenic Council
restaurants ended sales of foie gras.
VFA is currently trying to negotiate 
with Le Pommier, Laforet, and Bona 
Terra to stop serving foie gras. Le 
Pommiers management announced last 
month that it removed foie gras from 
its menu, at least temporarily, until its 
executive chef visits a foie gras farm.
Foie gras is a despicable example of 
cruelty to animals, as has become so 
common in modern factory-farming. 
Restaurants and governments across 
the globe have made the compassionate 
decision to say au revoir to foie gras. 
Hopefully, more local dining establish
ments will follow this trend.
Michael Croland (mic@J is the president 
of CMUs Voices for Animals. For infor
mation, please visit PghFoieGras.com or 
come to its meeting in Porter Hall 126A 
at 7 tonight.
THE TARTAN^
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906
MARKEGERMAN 
Executive Officer
EDITORIAL BOARD
FRANKLIN WILLIAMS, Managing Editor 
JIM PULS, Advertising Manager 
ELI POUSSON, Comics Editor 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Mgr.
EDITORIAL STAFF
MICHELLE M. BOVA, Pillbox Editor 
LIZZA McGREGOR, Art Editor 
ANNALISA SCHAEFER, Dossier Literary Ed. 
NICK POZEK, Dossier Design Editor 
SAAGAR PATEL, Online Editor 
KRISTEN HWANG, Business Manager 
EVAN SUNDWICK, Production Manager 
ARTHUR ODWYER, Copy Manager 
ALEXANDER MESEGUER, Layout Manager 
MARGARET CARTAYA, Personnel Mgr.
JAMES AUWAERTER, Forum Editor 
ALEXANDRA KILDUFF, News Editor 
J.T. TROLLMAN, Photo Editor
RYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager 
KRISTINA WILTSEE, Ombudsman
CORINNE PASCALE, Asst. Sei. & Tech. Ed. 
ERIN GOLDBERGER, Asst. Sports Editor 
ERICA NRNBERG, Asst. Pillbox Editor 
BRADFORD L. YANKIVER, Asst. Photo Editor 
KANISHKA MAHESHWARI, Asst. Bus. Mgr. 
RAN LIU, Asst. Advertising Manager 
WENYING WU, Asst. Layout Mgr.
Hurricanes: threat to life, 
limb, and pocketbook

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 13, 2004
THE TARTAN
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen
STAFFWR ITERS 
Adam C. Atkinson, Jeff Cullers, 
Khalid El-Arini, Mustafa Khan, 
Jonathan Mendelson, Laura 
Marie Palotie, Laura Sauer, James 
Tetlow, Katherine Thompson, 
Lucas Yiannatji
ART
Bridget Lewis, Danielle Saudino, 
Laura Semesky, Vanessa Shyu
COMICS 
Josh Adas, Zachary Beard, 
Amy Bickerton, Jon Brodsky, 
Max Kauffman, Greg Prichard, 
Ed Ryan, Yann Seznec, Lisa 
Troutman, Dinah Winnick
PHOTO
Kayhan Ahmadi, Kevin Anderson, 
Jeff Cullers, John Davin, Kelly 
Duncan, Julie Frederking, Chang 
Glasgow, Natalie Gonzalez, 
Wenyao Ho, Eugene Hsia, Robert 
Kaminski, Matt Meurer, Shafeeq 
Sinnamohideen, Henry Tsai, 
Tiffany Yun
COPY
Kevin Chang, Catherine Fan, 
Adam Greenberg
LAYOUT 
Jessi Abrahams, Ahmed 
Agwedicham, Meghan Laskowski, 
Matthew Matuaniak, Eddie Szeto
JUNIOR STAFF 
Bryan Arsham, Mandy Flynn, 
Andrew Francis, Jason Goldstein, 
Amy Johnson, Brittany 
McCandles, Kevin Purtell, Jill 
Wetzler, Ann Wootton
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie 
Mellon University, funded in part by the 
Student Activities Fee. It is a weekly publi
cation by students during the fall and spring 
semesters, printed by Valley News Dispatch, 
Inc. The Tartan is not an official publication 
of Carnegie Mellon University. The first issue 
is free; subsequent issues cost $0.50 at the 
discretion of The Tartan. Subscriptions are 
available on a per semester basis.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opinion of 
The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns; Editorial 
Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions 
of their individual creators. Letters to the 
Editor are the opinions of their authors. 
Letters from within the University com
munity take precedence. Letters intended 
for publication must be signed and include 
the authors address and telephone number 
for verification; letters must not exceed 350 
words. Authors' names may be withheld 
from publication upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 pm on 
the Thursday before publication by mail or 
to forum@thetartan.org. The Tartan Editorial 
Staff reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit.
Comments about and suggestions for The 
Tartan and notices of errata should be directed 
to The Tartan's independent Ombudsman at 
ombudsman@thetartan.org.
 2004 The Tartan, all rights reserved. 
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
Office: University Center room 314 
Phone: (412) 268-2111 
Advertisements: (412) 268-2113 
Fax: (412) 268-1596 
Mail:
The Tartan / Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
Misty Muscatel
Senior
Business Administration 
I went to the vigil at the Fence.
Jon Devries
Junior
Spanish
No, I didnt do anything. We should com
memorate every day of the year for coun
tries we attack. '
Alex Wolfe
Junior
Acting
Nothing formal, but I thought about it.
Tyson Schrader
Junior
English
I noticed the flag was at half-mast.
Editors Note: This person identified himself 
as Sean Crandon, majoring in math and 
computative dance.
Abby White
Sophomore 
Creative Writing
I thought about the date of September
11.
The problem with Kerry: the wrong man for the job
Gays in the Greek communityDifficult issue:
Adam C. Atkinson
My dates to fraternity events are almost always girls
 not that I find them disappointing. If you know Kristina 
Wiltsee, you know that any man, straight or gay, would be 
honored to have her as a date. And its not that Im afraid 
my brothers will disapprove, snicker, or just plain avoid 
me. When I was still with my boyfriend, I brought him 
over regularly, even danced with him at parties, despite 
his hesitation.
So why do I always have a girl on my arm? Frankly, the 
whole frat thing freaks gay guys out, at least the ones 
Ive dated. Theyll go with me almost anywhere: the store, 
the movies, the park... but not to go and hang out with my 
brothers. Essentially, quad does not equal queer.
And their heterosexual counterparts tend to agree 
even more. What possible benefits can Greek life hold for 
someone who is gay? To be honest, I feel more comfort
able watching the game with a cold beer in my hand than
I do kicking back for a Will & Grace marathon. But thats 
hardly what Greek life is about.
In the end, why should it be so strange that the con
cepts of brotherhood or sisterhood, community service, 
and personal growth appeal to gays and lesbians just as 
much as anyone else? Unfortunately, many of the naysayers, gay and straight, have a number of justifications for 
viewing Greek Life as a straight-only world.
Just look at readme, which almost two weeks ago 
experienced criticism for writing a story about a confused 
fraternity man who pledged to make his fraternity (spe
cifically named) less blatantly homosexual than it was. 
The remark, and the mention of fraternity letters during 
Rush, sent the fraternity into a rage. Legal action was 
threatened, and matters have since calmed down, but it 
remains disconcerting that readme, typically a lampooner 
of homophobes, decided to single out a fraternity for 
what, apparently, is a lot of homosexuality in its house.
But thats not so, said sophomore chemistry major 
Jeffrey Lo, an openly gay pledge at that house. First of 
all, my house is incredibly supportive and would defend 
me without hesitation if I were ever attacked for being 
gay. And secondly, my house is not a gay house. There
are several houses on this quad labeled that way, simply 
because it is not an issue there. Rumors fly about really 
high numbers of gay guys, when that just isnt true.
So are all the stereotypes about the bigotry of Greeks 
untrue? Not necessarily. My experience, like Jeffreys, has 
been completely free of judgment, violence, or anything 
that would drive me away. Both of us know of brothers 
and sisters who have come out-of the closet as a result of 
the presence of an openly gay brother or sister. But that is 
not a complete picture of the gay Greek experience.
Take Karl Sjogren, a chemistry and ethics, history, 
and public policy sophomore, and an openly gay student 
who had a violent experience on the quad last weekend. 
Earlier that Friday night, Karl had attended a Rush event 
for one of the houses on the Quad, and now he was 
headed to a different house with a few female friends for 
a party.
I knew the brother at the door and got in without a 
problem, said Karl, who declined to name the fraternity 
in question  and claims that the only thing that ever 
made him uncomfortable on the quad was the excessive 
beer drinking, of which he is not a fan.
The only appeal really is the dancing, so thats what I 
did. I was dancing for just a few minutes ... when I got a 
phone call and went out on the porch to take it.
When Karl re-entered the house, he was suddenly 
approached and shoved hard by an unknown male.
He yelled Fucking faggot! You started shit with my 
friend! and headbutted me, recalled Sjogren, who says 
the aggressors friend then went behind Sjogren and 
shoved him into the aggressor, setting him off again.
He headbutted me again, and the people around us 
mostly just looked on. Some laughed. A brother yelled, 
Get the fuck out! so I did, while [the aggressor] was 
being held back yelling, Fucking faggot! over and over. 
According to Sjogren, his friends went to find a friend in 
the house, who apologized and offered the house compos
ite, so that Sjogren might point out the aggressor. Since 
then, the University has begun investigating the case.
I feel the same [about Greek life], said Sjogren. I 
dont expect every house to be like [the one in question], 
nor do I expect every house not to be. The only thing that 
caught me off guard was the violence.
While Sjogrens optimism is admirable, and the motives 
of the (in all likelihood) drunken individual unknown,
it is upsetting to find his experience echoed in others. 
What others? An openly gay first-year student at Carnegie 
Mellon, who prefers to remain unnamed, had an eerily 
similar experience on the quad on the very same night.
I had been at a Rush event for one house, then went to 
another to check out the party, the first-year explained. 
I was talking with a brother there, having a good time. 
He thought I was hilarious, and things were good. Then 
he said, Hey, check out those girls over there? Arent they 
pretty hot? I wasnt sure what to do, so I just said, Well, 
its not really my thing. 
According to the student, the brother then pressed him 
to admit that he was gay, and once he had, the brother 
brought over a large man, much bigger than me, and 
Im not small. The brother then grabbed the first-year 
student firmly by his arm and said to the larger man, This 
kids gay. Were going to throw him out.
 Do you. want me to get out? I asked, and they said 
that if I did not I would be thrown out. I agreed to leave, 
and they yelled, Good. Get the fuck out, as I left.
After such an ordeal, you might have expected the stu
dent to go to SoHo, or some other viable support system 
specifically for GLBT students. But thats what makes both 
of these instances so interesting: Both Sjogren and the 
first-year went directly to another fraternity house where 
they knew they would be safe and supported.
My interest in Greek life is having a shared experi
ence despite differences. This hasnt changed that, said 
Sjogren, and the first-year student agreed.
I still feel like Greek life is a great option, a great way 
to serve the community. I just have to be more selective 
about where I go, he said. Its not perfect, and it cant 
be. Even though there are bad experiences, theres still so 
much goodness, and thats a very encouraging thing. 
Indeed it is. Greeks arent a bunch of bigots, but the fact 
that these two anecdotes basically fell into the lap of this 
columnist makes me wonder if more of this kind of thing 
isnt happening. More gays and lesbians are becoming 
Greek, a sign of improvement within the community, but 
that change wont come without controversy  contro
versy that will force Greeks to re-examine their behavior.
Adam C. Atkinson (aatkinso(a>) is a senior creative writing 
major and the Diversity Coordinator for Greek Council. He 
welcomes all responsible replies.
The anniversary of September 11 was celebrated over the weekend. We asked:
What did you do to commemorate September 11?A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Natalie Gonzalez
Jeff Cullers
The 2004 presidential election 
is the Democrats big chance! A 
controversial Iraq war has polar
ized the country more than any 
event since Vietnam. Voters are 
put off by Bushs hard-headed 
Texas style and disappointed by 
the economy. With war and the 
economy the two main issues in 
the race, the Democrats need to 
convince voters that their can
didate can handle the problems 
better. Given all the ammunition 
that Bush has provided the oppo
sition, this should not be too hard 
a job.
Unfortunately, Democratic 
strategists have overlooked the 
simplicity of this task. They 
thought that contrasting their 
candidates decorated military 
service with Bushs wobbly Air 
National Guard service was a 
good idea, but that turned into a 
mistake when it became evident 
that Kerrys supposed heroism 
was, to put it lightly, open to 
debate. As a result, Kerry cannot 
convincingly run on his Vietnam 
service anymore. Charges of dis
honesty by groups such as the 
Swift Boat Veterans For Truth 
and Kerrys evolving stories and 
explanations have rendered his 
claims of heroism questionable 
at best and downright phony at 
worst!
Kerrys case for doing a better 
job in Iraq is practically meaning
less with all the inconsistencies 
he has shown. In the Senate he 
voted in favor of the war but later 
voted against funding it. On a 
campaign stop in Arizona, Kerry 
was asked by a reporter whether,
if he had known at the time of the 
Senate vote that the aftermath of 
the Iraq invasion would be such a 
disaster, would he still have voted 
for the war? Surprisingly, he 
answered yes, despite declar
ing that Iraq was the wrong war 
in the wrong place at the wrong 
time at a different campaign 
stop. Kerrys primary objective of 
convincing voters that he could 
have done Iraq better falls flat.
Touting his four months of 
Vietnam service has backfired 
and capitalizing on the Iraq mess 
has been plagued by Kerrys con
tradictions. In addition, Kerrys 
strategists have failed to convince 
voters that the economy is bad 
and that it is Bushs fault. Thus,
Kerry has looked for more dubi
ous ways to differentiate himself 
from President Bush. One issue 
Kerry recently seized upon is the 
Base Realignment and Closure 
process (BRAC). This Defense 
Department plan seeks to reor
ganize world deployment of U.S. 
military forces, save money, and 
adapt to coming threats. Despite 
voting in favor of BRAC three 
times in the Senate, in New 
Mexico Kerry promised to slow 
or even halt the process in order 
to pander to voters living in mili
tary-heavy districts.
Kerry committed an even more 
egregious grab for single-issue 
voters when he announced on 
the campaign trail in Nevada
Vanessa Shyu/Art Staff
that if elected he would end the 
Yucca Mountain nuclear waste 
site project. Of course it goes 
without saying that Kerry (along 
with Edwards) supported the 
proposal in the past. Now, oppos
ing the Yucca Mountain site is 
a moot point since billions have 
already been spent and the facil
ity is nearly ready. This unrealis
tic promise is evidence of Kerrys 
desperation.
Despite all the Bush bashing, 
protesting, and untold millions 
of dollars spent by left-wing 527 
groups like MoveOn.org, Bush 
has come out with a seven-point 
post-convention lead that the 
Kerry campaign can only envy 
and scratch their heads over. Its
a damn shame they cant come up 
with a better candidate! Kerry has 
brought way too much damaging 
baggage with him and has a habit 
of drawing attention to it. After 
doing some soul-searching about 
this collective failure, the Kerry 
campaign has shuffled personnel 
and tried to change tactics, hop
ing that it is not too late. If Kerry 
does end up winning it will be 
for the sole reason that he is not 
Bush. The latest CNN poll sug
gests that this credential will 
not be enough.
Jeff Cullers (jcullers@J is a fifthyear senior in economics, history, 
and social & decision sciences. He 
welcomes all responsible replies.

---------------------------------------------------

theopportunitles we offer
Date; September20,2004
Time, PM  Jlw Pm
Venue: 1BD
Business Area/Group: Equities
Iniow^atlon Ted! 
OOOSpv iiicfif Banning
tr *#* #%*%**PSP
Operations & Services - Wealth Management USA
Resume Drop: $23 Equities
information Technology 
Investment Banking
w tiS
9/24 Operations & Services - Wealth Management USA 
To apply fora position please visit your career office, for more information about UBS please visit:
nmmm.*.*  sfkc m+j*.
Wealth I Global Asset j InvestmentManagement I Management 1 Bank
' i

---------------------------------------------------

Go with the plan that leaves you some cash
 AT&T WIRELESS GSM AMERICA NATIONAL PLAN -------
Get a lot for a little.
 FREE weekend minutes ^ al1 Wlth the
FREE nights
FREE nationwide long distance

FREE calling to all other AT&T Wireless customers 
NO domestic roaming charges from the U,S.
All benefits available from your applicable Service Area 
with a 2-year agreement. See below for activation tee
and monthly charges.
CARNEGIE MELLON STUDENTS,
STOP BY AN AT&T WIRELESS 
STORE TODAY!
LG 1)50 CAMERA PHONE f
you re m
International Calling
O uritf
some of our lowest rates ever by 
.Enhanced Discounted Internationa 
tetany ca!I*ng;pian
$&99/md. Airtime or roaming char 
mobile surcfiarges may apply.;' > 
Piety re Messaging
Send pictures to your friends and family.rnMode lets you bring it afi with you
Text Messaging
Stay connected throughout the day.
Instant Messaging
Stay connected with M
.

---------------------------------------------------

It isnt always clear to people at first that they're right 
for the D. E. Shaw group. Like the poetry M.F.A. we 
hired to head an automated block trading unit. Or 
the woman who designs solar-powered race cars; 
we hired her to help launch a new venture in compu
tational chemistry. They didnt think of themselves as 
financial types,' and neither did we. We thought of 
them as people with extraordinary talent.
The D. E. Shaw group is an investment and technol
ogy' development firm. Since 1988 weve grown into a 
number of closely related entities with approximately 
US $8 billion in aggregate capital by hiring smart 
people from a wide range of backgrounds and letting 
them implementand managewhat they invent.
A robotics guru. A nationally ranked blackjack 
player. An operatic mezzo-soprano. And a lot of 
people who are just exceptionally strong in CS,
EE, math, and finance.
The firm currently has openings in quantitative 
analysis, software development, information 
technology, computer architecture, business 
development, computational chemistry, accounting, 
finance, and trading. We're looking for creative but 
pragmatic people: articulate, curious, and driven. 
Our working environment is intense but surprisingly 
casual. We provide unusual opportunities for 
growth. And we compensate extraordinary people 
extraordinarily well.
The D. E. Shaw group will attend the Technical 
Opportunities Conference on Tuesday, 
September 21 in the Carnegie Mellon University 
Center Gym from 10:00 am - 4:00 pm. 
On>campus interviews will take place 
September 22. To apply for an interview, log 
on to http://www.studentaffairs.cmu.edu/ 
career/tartanTRAK/login.html. If this isn't pos
sible, please send a resume and cover letter 
stating your CPA and standardized test scores, 
broken down by section where applicable, to 
jobs@de5haw.com. All applications must be 
received by September 7.
Members of the D. Ji. Shaw group do not discriminate in employment matters on the basis of race, color, religion, gender, national origin, age. military service eligibility, veteran status, sexual orientation, marital status, 
disability, or any other protected class.
jobs@deshaw.comDEShaw&Co
Deutsche Bank
Yes, you.
ASSET MANAGEMENT I CONTROLLING & FINANCE I GLOBAL BANKING DIVISION/GLOBAL TRANSACTION BANKING I GLOBAL CORPORATE FINANCE
GLOBAL EQUITIES I GLOBAL MARKETS I HUMAN RESOURCES I OPERATIONS I RISK MANAGEMENT I TECHNOLOGY I TREASURY
Success
fhis adverfl&f tent has been approved and/or2004 Deutsche Bank AG.
www.db.com/careers
A Paision to Perform
communicated oy Deutsche Bank As
Hats off to you.
At Deutsche Bank we offer in-depth world class 
training and early opportunities to shine in a 
dynamic and diverse environment. To learn more 
please visit our upcoming event:
Technology Presentation
Date: Monday, September 13, 2004
Time: 7:00pm - 9:00pm
Venue: University Center - Rangos II

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  SEPTEMBER 13, 2004
Anniversaries: Commemorate 
the events of yesteryear
James Auwaerter
Theres a reason that people 
celebrate anniversaries. Whether 
its something good or something 
bad, annual commemorations 
give us the opportunity for reflec
tion. This week, I had four anni
versaries, and Id like to point out 
something about each of them.
Ill start with the one that 
everyone is aware of: the anni
versary of September 11. Even 
three years after the attacks, 
we are still feeling their impact. 
There are hundreds of remains 
from the World Trade Center 
that still havent been identified. 
Even more damaging than that 
loss, if such a thing is possible, 
is the loss of our naivete as a 
nation. Terror was something far 
away, happening in countries like 
Israel or Yemen, or else an iso
lated incident like the Oklahoma 
City bombing, the work of a small 
group. With September 11, we 
were forced to confront the fact 
that there are organizations that 
stand against what we hold dear, 
who are willing to kill themselves 
and other innocents to make that 
message clear. But more and 
more, I wonder how long well be 
able to hold onto that memory. 
There were around 30 people at 
this years vigil, down a great deal 
from past years. Yeah, we can say 
part of that was because it was a 
weekend, and Ill be honest  I
didnt attend either. But is that 
day going to remain etched in our 
memories, or will it fade? Few 
commemorate December 7 any 
more, and the two attacks share a 
great number of parallels.
The second anniversary I cel
ebrated just reinforced that 
thought. Over the past week, it 
was the tenth anniversary of my 
maternal grandfathers death. He 
died when I was only 11 years 
old, and when I try to remember 
him, its all fuzzy. Theres the lit
tle things, like the way he always 
ate his corn with a fork, or the 
time he took my sister and me 
to McDonalds when we were in 
our pajamas, or the time he let 
me watch The Simpsons in his 
room because he didnt know my 
parents said that I couldnt. And 
Im reminded of him every time 
I clean out my razor, because the 
smell of the whiskers is some
thing that Ill always associate 
with him. But I know that there 
has to be so much more that I 
cant remember because I never 
really realized then that he would 
be gone. To me, thats one of the 
things that I regret the most, and 
it was only at this anniversary 
that I realized it.
Yesterday at church, the priest 
took time during his welcoming 
to point out a couple up front who 
was celebrating their 40th wed
ding anniversary. Thats the one 
where the gift is ruby, for those 
who keep track of such things. 
With around 43 percent of all 
new marriages ending in divorce,
Attend unique events 
Chronicle history 
Build a portfolio 
Work as a team 
Improve skills 
Capture stills
THE TARTAN H
Room 314
to make it to 40 years together is 
a real accomplishment. At that 
point, it can be hard for two peo
ple to live that long, let alone with 
each other. I didnt get a chance 
to see them or talk to them, but 
Id like to know what that meant 
to them. Is that 40 years together 
a special thing, or is each day 
together a gift itself? If I have 
trouble remembering 10 years 
ago clearly, what is it like for 
them at 40 years?
Finally, theres one of the most 
simple anniversaries of all  a 
birthday. Though none of us can 
claim to remember that day, we 
all use it to celebrate when we 
came into the world. Its a time to 
gather with friends and remem
ber the good times. Thanks to 
thefacebook.com, I now get noti
fications for all my friends birth
days, so I know that Sarah had 
her birthday the other day. Happy 
belated birthday, Sarah. I hope it 
was a good one.
And in the end, thats the point 
of anniversaries. For some of 
them, we celebrate the happiness 
that the years have brought us. 
Others, all that can be done is 
pray for repose of the soul. All of 
them make us look back on what 
we have and try to hold onto 
it. They are,a time to reflect on 
the past and work to improve the 
future.
James Auwaerter (sensei@cmu. 
eduj is the Forum Editor for The 
Tartan. He welcomes all respon
sible replies.
University Center; Vi
Siili
Better Ingredients. 
Better Pizza.
Oakland
4643 Baum Blvd 
(412) 682-PAPA
7272
Order Online Today!
Look for Deals Exclusively at
www.PapqJohns.com
Now Accepting AMEX, Discover, Visa & Mastercard
PizzasSmallMediumLargeX-Large10"1214"16"Cheese Pizza $4.99 $7.99
Additional Toppings $ 1.09 $ 1.29
TOPPINGS Ham, Pepperoni, Sausage, Italian Sausage,
Ground Beef, Bacon, Grilled Chicken, Anchovies, 
Mushrooms, Onions, Green Peppers, Ripe Black 
Olives, Tomatoes, Jalapeno Peppers, Banana
| Specialty PizzasSmall 
10"
Medium
12"
large
14"
X-Large
16"Spinach Alfredo$8.99$10.99-$12.99$14.99
Garden Deluxe$8.99$10.99$12.99$14.99
Grilled Chicken Club$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
Grilled Chicken Alfredo$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
Hawaiian Bacon BBQ$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
BBQ Chicken & Bacon$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
All The Meats$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
The Works$9.99$12.99$14.99$16.99
1 Papa's SidesCoca Cola Brand Beverages 1
Wings (10 pc)$6.9920 oz4 - 2Ooz2 Liter
Chickenstrips$5.99$1.25$3.99$2.29
Cheesesticks$4.99Coke,Diet Coke,Sprite,
Breadsticks$3.99Barqs Root Beer
Volume Pricing Available 
Contact Us for Your Next Campus Event
Customer Responsible for All Applicable Sales Tax
CAMPUS SPECIALS
Student Discount
Medium I Top 
Sr Preadstieks
Only *7.99
Expire* 0 S/01/05 
Coupon: 799MS
Student Discount
Medium I Top 
ir I ZOoz Cokes
Only *7.99
Expires 01/0 /05 
Coupon: 799MC
Lunch for One
large 1 Top, Wings,  CocaCola t Ooz 4'Paek
Only ^19,99
Expires 01/0/0S 
Coupon: 19991W
S taisc lyp ectt skSn 
S kysce pyyg
Seeking candidates with a Bachelors and/or 
Masters in:
Computer Science 
Computer Engineering 
Electrical Engineering 
Electrical and Computer Engineering 
Aerospace Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering
Interested candidates, please visit us at the
Technical Opportunities Conference 
September 21,2004,10:00-4:00 
University Center Gym
or apply online at: 
careers.harris.com
US Citizenship is required for most positions. We are an 
Equal Opportunity Employer.
hAi^ms
assuredcommunkations
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 
145 fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMU/Pitt/Hospitais.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
FREE HIGH-SPEED INTERNET ACCESS*
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(412) 441-4444
http: //www. shadysideinn. com
*Internet access available in most two-bedroom and Mansion Suitescareers.harris.com
>

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
13 September 2004-THE TARTANA14
Tartans fall to Grove City at home
Junior guard Eliot Goren drives down the lane against the Yellow Jackets.
by Mark Egerman
Executive Officer
The Tartans are off to an 
uneven start this season. Coming 
off of a 44-0 victory over Hiram, 
the Tartans lost to Grove City 
16-14 this Saturday in their first 
home game of the year.
In the Hiram game, the Tartans 
dominated with 380 total yards 
on offense and only one turn
over. Their defense held Hiram 
to only nine first downs over the 
entire game. The Tartans took 
an intimidating 17-0 lead into 
halftime following a touchdown 
run by architecture junior Jon 
Cakert, a touchdown reception 
by Mark Davis, a sophomore in 
mechanical engineering, and a 
field goal by Neil Stegall, a soph
omore in mechanical engineer
ing. ECE juinor Joseph Hurleys 
two rushing touchdowns in the 
second half won him the award 
for UAA offensive player of the
week. On defense, business 
administration junior Thomas 
Pfister had a team-high ten tack
les.
Coming off such a decisive vic
tory, the Tartans faced the Grove 
City Wolverines at home. The 
Wolverines were another team 
that had won an early rout: 54-
14 over Manchester. While the 
Tartans were the more talented 
team on the field, a series of bad 
decisions and simple mistakes 
cost them victory.
The team looked its best in 
the first few series of the game. 
Kicking the ball to start, they held 
the Wolverines to a single yard 
before forcing a punt. Taking 
possession, the Tartans marched 
down the field and scored four 
minutes into the game on a fouryard run by Hurley. The Tartans 
found themselves with a 7-0 
lead.
The Tartans defense once again 
looked strong, with a number of 
athletic pass blocks keeping the 
Wolverines from scoring. A sack
Robert Kaminski/Photo Staff
on fourth down gave the Tartans 
possession again. However, a 
fumble returned the ball to Grove 
City, in the first of six turnovers of 
the afternoon.
Afterwards, the Tartans strug
gled for the rest of the afternoon. 
After recovering the ball on their 
own four yard line at the end of 
the first quarter, the Tartans were 
sacked for a safety, cutting the 
Tartans lead to 7-2. Receiving 
the free kick, the Wolverines 
pounded in for another score, 
converted the two-point try, and 
took a 10-7 lead.
The Tartans never regained the 
form they showed at the begin
ning of the game. A number 
of errors followed, including a 
muffed punt catch that led to 
Grove City scoring their second 
touchdown. ^
When the Tartans played smart 
football, they clearly demonstrat
ed that they were the better of 
the two teams on the field. The 
defense against the pass was stel
lar all afternoon with a number
of sacks and continuous pressure 
on the Grove City QB.
The Tartans quarterback, 
senior business major Jarrod 
Highberger, kept the audience on 
its feet all afternoon, often scram
bling 20 yards behind the line of 
scrimmage, avoiding a number of 
tackles to result in positive gains. 
While he managed to get out of 
trouble most of the game, he 
made one mistake when he tried 
to get rid of the ball to avoid a 
sack, leading to an interception.
The Tartans made a late 
rally as the clock ran down in 
the fourth quarter. The offense 
fought to bring the ball into field 
goal position and set up a poten
tially game-winning 49-yard field 
goal. Unfortunately, Stegall, the 
Tartans kicker, was unable to hit 
the challenging shot and Grove 
City won the game.
The Tartans are facing sig
nificant changes this year. When 
Rochester dropped out of the 
UAA, Carnegie Mellon was left 
with three conference oppo
nents: Case Western, Washington 
University, and University of 
Chicago. Furthermore, the 
Tartans have lost a number of 
high-impact starters, such as 
Brad Stanley, who was named 
UAA offensive player of 2003.
While the Tartans maybe upset 
about their loss, there were a 
number of high points through
out the game. Defense was solid 
all day and offense flowed well 
during most of the series. If the 
Tartans are able to reduce their 
number of mistakes they could 
find themselves in the win col
umn next week against Johns 
Hopkins.
The game against the Johns 
Hopkins Blue Jays will be chal
lenging. The Tartans lost to the 
Blue Jays last year 21-0 and Johns 
Hopkins has won five consecutive 
games this year. Nonetheless, if 
the Tartans can tighten up their 
playing and make smart deci
sions, they should be able to give 
Johns Hopkins a run for their 
money. As head coach Rich 
Lackner put it, We take each 
game one at a time.
Womens XC starts season out strong
by Erin Goldberger
Assistant Sports Editor
With a relatively experienced 
team, the womens cross country 
has started out their season on 
the right track. Despite the hot 
weather, the team came in third 
place overall at the Allegheny 
College Invitational, which was 
held at Allegheny College on 
Saturday, September 11. Other 
colleges represented were Grove 
City, La Roche, Kings College, 
Cayahoga Community College, 
and Mercyhurst North East 
College.
Junior Jocelyn Sikora placed 
second overall and Junior Karen
Helmstetter placed fourth. Junior 
Kelly Cronin and first-year Carrie 
Kmetzo also received medals. Last 
year Carnegie Mellons womens 
cross country came in fourth at 
this same meet.
The cross country course at 
Allegheny College will also host 
the regional meet in November; 
the top seven womens team mem
bers will be competing. Senior 
cross country captain Jamie 
Davidson said, We are hoping 
to improve on an 11th place fin
ish in the region last year. In the 
past we have been ranked as high 
as sixth.
Carnegie Mellons womens 
cross country team opened its 
2004 season by falling to four of
five opponents at the Duquesne 
Duals at Schenley Oval last 
Saturday, September 4. The 
Tartans defeated St. Bonaventure 
(18-45) while losing to the 
University of Pittsburgh (17-44), 
Saint Josephs (26-43), Duquesne 
University (15-47), and West 
Virginia (16-47).
On the individual level, first 
place went to WVUs Megan 
Metcalfe with a time of 17:18. For 
Carnegie Mellon, Sikora came in 
16th with a time of 19:17 and 
junior psychology and English 
major Drea Garvue came in 25th 
with a 19:46. The remainder of 
the team finished with times 
between 20 and 23 minutes.
The team lost just one senior
from last year and the rest of 
the Tartans line-up will fea
ture returning juniors Sikora, 
Cronin, Garvue, Helmsetter, Kate 
Hollabaugh, Kim Kicielinski, and 
Carrie Mallozzi. With this return
ing group of veterans, the Tartans 
feel that they will be likely be 
able to improve on their results 
from last year. With a number of 
promising first-years, the team is 
looking to have a stellar season.
The teams next meet will 
be an invitational on Saturday, 
September 18th at Penn State 
University at Behrend. Their next 
home match will be Saturday, 
October 9; The Carnegie Mellon 
University International.
Womens tennis team 
defeats NYU, TCNJ
by Erin Goldberger
Assistant Sports Editor
The womens tennis team 
came home victorious from 
their first match of the sea
son versus The College of New 
Jersey (TCNJ) and New York 
University (NYU) at TCNJ. 
The team beat both TCNJ and 
NYU with scores of 7-2 for 
both.
Against NYU first singles 
first-year Amy Staloch, second 
singles sophomore Mona Iyer, 
third singles senior Christina 
Weng, fourth singles junior 
Alison Liu, fifth singles firstyear Samantha Schultz, and 
sixth singles senior Grace 
Hwang all defeated NYU. The
IIS/I
NEWS
Administration
Intramural Director: Mike 
Mastroianni x8-2214 or 
mma8@
Assistant Director: Mike 
Grzywinski x8-2214 or 
immike@
Secretary: Amy Kiryk x8-2053 
or kiryk@
President: Derek Ritchea 
dritchea@
Vice President: Shawn Quinn 
squinn@
Womens President: Kimberly
Lackner
kdl@
Important Dates
Monday, September 13 
Flag Football starts
Tuesday, September 14  
Co-Rec Volleyball starts
Wednesday, September 15  
Tennis starts
Thursday, September 16  
Rosters due for Chess, Water 
Polo, and Bowling rosters due 
at 4:30 pm in the IM Office
Wednesday, September 22  
IM Board Meeting in the Gym 
Conference Room at 12:30 pm
Sports In Season
Flag Football  Rosters are 
a minimum of 7 and a maxi
mum of 13 players. The game 
is played with 6 players on the 
field at one time. The season 
starts tonight.
Games are played Monday 
through Thursday nights and
first doubles team of Staloch 
and Iyer also beat NYU.
In the matches against 
TCNJ, Staloch, Iyer, Wang, 
Schultz, and Hwang all were 
victorious in their singles 
matches. In doubles, both 
first doubles Iyer and Staloch 
and third doubles Hwang and 
Shultz beat TCNJ.
Hwang was very pleased 
with the teams performance 
on Sunday and said, Our first 
match went well and were 
really excited to have a strong 
team. We are definitely look
ing to improve upon last years 
finish.
The girls next match is 
against Alleghany College and 
Grove City at Allegheny on 
Saturday.
Sunday afternoons on the 
Stadium and IM Fields. Please 
stay off the fields during varsity 
sports practices. Schedules atfe 
available in the IM Office.
Co-Rec Volleyball  Games 
start tomorrow. The teams con
sist of a minimum 3 women and
3 men. There are 3 women on 
the court at all times. Games 
are played at the UC Courts 
from 6:30-10:30 pm Monday 
through Thursday. Schedules 
are available in the IM Office by
3 pm today.
Tennis  Games start 
Wednesday. The tennis intra
mural teams are two singles 
players and one doubles pair. 
There must be four players. 
Matches are played on the 
University Courts Monday 
through Thursday nights start
ing at 7 pm. Please wear prop
er athletic shoes; no boots or 
hard-soled shoes. Stay off the 
courts during varsity practice. 
Schedules will be available 
Tuesday at noon.
Sports Upcoming
Water Polo  Games are played 
in the dive well of the UC Pool 
Monday and Wednesday nights 
9-11 pm. There are five players 
in the pool at one time.
Bowling  Matches are played 
near campus on Sunday after
noons. There are 4 bowlers per 
team.
Women are allowed to partic
ipate on teams with men in all 
leagues. There are also womenonly leagues in all sports except 
co-rec. If you have any ques
tions or need help filling out a 
roster stop by the IM Office in 
Skibo Gym.
All e-mail rosters must be 
received 24-hours before the 
posted deadline.
Womens soccer remains undefeated
by Khalid Ei-Arini
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon womens 
soccer team remained unbeaten 
this week after defeating Grove 
City College and tying the College 
of Wooster. The Tartans now sit on 
a 3-0-1 record after facing out-of
conference opponents.
On Tuesday, September 7, 
Carnegie Mellon hosted Grove 
City College at Gesling Stadium, 
and soundly defeated them by 
a final score of 3-0. The visitors 
were outmatched early on, as the 
Tartans scored in the ninth, 19th 
and 29th minutes to take the early 
lead. Solid team defending limited 
Grove City to just one shot and 
prevented the Wolverines from 
mounting any comeback, while 
a persistent attack peppered the 
visitors with 27 shots.
Sophomore midfielder Lisa 
Pascoli had a goal and an assist, 
scoring the first goal of the game 
off a free kick. She later had the 
assist on a goal by junior midfield
er Nadya Yaghoubi. Both Pascoli 
and Yaghoubi have two goals on 
the year. First-year forward Kasey 
Stever scored her first goal as a 
Tartan towards the end of the first 
half to put the home squad up 
3-0.
We played really well in the
first half, said Yaghoubi. We 
worked together as a team and 
attacked pretty well. Our defense 
was great; they hardly had a 
chance to attack us.
On Saturday, September 11, the 
Tartans traveled to Wooster, Ohio 
to face the College of Wooster, 
and came away with one point 
in a hard-fought match. Wooster 
scored in the 55th minute, but 
Carnegie Mellon tied it up three 
minutes later on a corner kick. 
Sophomore forward Jillian 
Erickson provided the perfect 
cross, allowing sophomore mid
fielder Ashley McMakin to find 
the back of the net.
Neither team was able to take 
the lead through the two allotted 
overtime periods, and the game 
ended in a 1-1 tie.
We are both regionally ranked 
so we knew it was going to be 
a good match-up, said Tartans 
head coach Heather Kendra. We 
played extremely well in the sec
ond half and both overtimes.
Senior goalkeeper and cap
tain Megan Monroe has allowed 
only a single goal in four outings. 
Coming off of a season where she 
was recognized as an honorable 
mention to the University Athletic 
Association all-conference team, 
her stellar play continues to frus
trate opponents.
We have a very consistent
defense that doesnt give up many 
shots. When we do, Megan is a 
fabulous goalkeeper who steps 
up and makes the saves, said 
Kendra.
The Tartans are coming off 
of last seasons ECAC Regional 
Tournament championship, 
and are using it as motivation 
for loftier goals. The team is 
mostly intact from last season, 
returning several starters as well 
as key substitutes that are now 
fixtures in the starting lineup. 
Carnegie Mellons attack is more 
balanced than it has been in years, 
which has translated to shots and 
goals from several different play
ers.
We are getting an immediate 
impact from our freshmen and 
team chemistry is getting better 
everyday, said Kendra. We have 
done well in the region, and now 
we are looking to break into the 
national picture. Winning the 
ECAC was a great stepping stone 
that will hopefully take us further 
this season.
We are determined to win 
our conference this year, and 
are ready for the next big thing, 
added Yaghoubi.
The Tartans will seek to keep 
their unbeaten streak alive this 
week as they travel to 24lh-ranked 
Allegheny College on Thursday, 
September 16.
Carnegie MellonO': , mmm mumm*;
HOfrtEI
September September 14$eptember 18 September 1$ September 17 September *8 September!9 
MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
FOOTBALL
MEN*SOCCER
WOMEN'SSOCCER
MENS
CROSS
COUNTRY
WOMEN1
CROSS
COUNTRY
MENS AND WOMEN'S TENNIS
VOLLEYBALL
1 ihnHepWrt : 
 ynwewi
\ 1 CO PM7.)
J
JPferRnOsjkae 1
mm 1men
gberrClesf
\  4MB j
1
M
1
"5
indwyr,
OH*
im
1 Pemt&Urw, - 
lliHMUK
r.............................'<r ^r . l'
CssKjj
BAM; )
I MtfK.fl 
K PM;
Lizza McGregor/Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 3. Issue 2.13 September 2004.
Future Tenant, Zenith Caf, Last CD tracks, Metal Shop, Criminal

---------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS.
4o Hereid adscsr cir
CMU Grads have ambitious displays
6, CD 2nd Halves
First half of CD better than second.
tE xdrcp loST
Internal Bleeding rocks with opinion.
8d (muusut
Better than might be expected.
1 .h uxn uidw
Rowing team gives it their all.
fle uDx;umb20
Jinx.
Corrections:
The back cover caption of last week's Pillbox 
read indicated that New House and Hamerschlag tied for third and fourth in House Wars 
In fact, Wydham Gardens came in third and 
Hamerschlag came in fourth; it was not a tie.
Also in last week's Pillbox all photos for 
Ozzfest 2004 were credited to Albert Cohen. 
Two of the pictures were taken by Avi Avishai.
STAFF
AMemoriae lttimeS pMark Egerman
b1h1fihf AgirwS pFranklin Williams
niUUvwM AgirwS pMichelle M. Bova
syyiyr1hr niUUvwM AgirwS pErica Nrnberg
Pwuimy AgirwS pEli Pousson
ndwrw AgirwS pJ.T. Trollman
sSr AgirwS pLizza McGregor
PwO, b1h1feS pArthur ODwyer
nSwgomriwh b1h1feS pEvan Sundwick
Cover by Lizza McGregor 
Photo by J.T. Trollman 
The Tartan 
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017 
www.thetartan.org
Indoors Activities Fair: Adam Edison and David Chan performing Aiki 
Jujitsu before the massive crowds of the Activities Fair on Wednesday.
ChaangGl 13 sow/oPnot 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Classical beauty
Latinoamericano Cuarteto makes aged compositions new
They are the architects of tomorrow. Usually 
referred to as composers, poets and artists know 
better. They are the song makers of the wind. 
Violins, a cello, and a viola mimic the wind  or 
as some would ask maybe the wind mimics the 
violins.
Jiyoung Lees 2004 composition Intuition for 
String Quartet was featured in Thursdays pro
gram at Alumni Concert Hall as a song per
formed by Cuarteto Latinoamericano. Lees com
position was the winner of the Carnegie Mellon 
School of Music String Quartet Composition 
Competition.
Ross Popoffs 2003 composition MOVING 
FORWARD/looking back was performed after 
Lees composition. Popoff s song was a runnerup in the same competition.
Each composer bowed with the quartet after 
their compositions ended. The audience eagerly 
supported the performances of the acclaimed 
members of composition.
Songwriters are essential for a genre that, like 
jazz, has a higher importance of standards being 
played live than impromptu improvisations. 
These are the performances where classics are 
judged heavily for their focus on the interpre
tations of the original songs and how they are 
reworked.
Imagine your favorite song switched from a pop 
song to a Bulgarian third-wave ska song. Yeah, 
just like that.
Often a change of key  or going from G minor 
to G sharp  will single-handedly coax clas
sical music aficionados to cram the seats at an 
auditorium. Without the composers classical 
music is just a bunch of musicians playing hot 
cross buns.
Classical music may not outsell modern hip-hop, 
Christina Aguilera, or next years American Idol 
runner-up, but in ways classical music is destined 
to outlive many of its influenced offshoots.
The reason is simple. The proof lies in groups 
such as the Cuarteto Latinoamericano, Spanish 
for Latinamerican Quartet. They are direct proof 
that classical music is still stretching its original 
European boundaries.
The quartet consists of Saul Bitran on violin, 
Aron Bitran on violin, Javier Montiel on viola, 
and Alvaro Bitran on cello.
The quartet started the night with Brazilians 
Heitor Villa-Lobos (1887-1959). Composition 
String Quartet No. 1 first performed in Nova 
-Friburgo, Brazil, on February 3, 1915. They 
ended with Bohemian Anton Dvoraks 1893 
composition Quartet Op. 96 American first 
performed in Boston on January 10,1894.
The sweet serenading performances that fol
lowed would make any movie director sweat like 
a robber to buy a few recordings from the night. 
Soundtracks after all dont pop out of thin-air.
The tension, the energy, symmetric tones, math
ematical rhythms, rolling cycles, and 12 whole 
notes stretched in physical strength, pulverized 
the evening. Some in attendance fidgeted in 
their seats, others let themselves go into sonic 
spheres.
When the night ended, those in attendance 
applauded, and the quartet in matching suits 
and shiny shirts bowed  and the architects 
smiled triumphantly as they continued the work 
started eons ago.
Sfteoa OETPeI 
s/eAA,th/ot
Israel Guzman/ Pillbox Staff
Saul Bitran and Aron Bitran, left to right, on violin.
13Septmp 
br23e30
5 YEARS AGO 
September 21,1954
James Romualdi, a graduate student at Carnegie Tech, was awarded a Fulbright 
Scholarship for foreign study by the U.S. Department of State. Fulbright scholar
ships allow one year of paid study at a foreign institution of the recipients choice. 
Romualdi, a student of civil engineering, chose to study at Karlsruhe, a technical 
institute in West Germany; he received three degrees from the Institute.
25 YEARS AGO 
September 11,1979
Director of Food Services John Eichmuiler expressed optimism about the changes 
in the dining structure over the summer. The new system had six facilities, each 
independently run, offering varied choices and price structures. The changes were 
designed to allow for competition between the locations, which would improve the 
food quality while eliminating food waste.
10 YEARS AGO 
September 12,1994
The Tartan reported on the crash of USAir Flight 427 north of Pittsburgh International 
Airport. The flight was headed from Chicago tu Florida when it rolled and eventually 
nose-dived into the ground in Hopewell Township. The Boeing 737-300 was carrying 
132 passengers, none of whom survived the crash. Among the victims was Edward T. 
Ryan, an alumnus of Carnegie Mellon and researcher for PPG Industries. At the time 
of The Tartan's report, the NTSB was still investigating the cause of the accident.
5 YEARS AGO 
September 13,1999
Carnegie Mellon unveiled its new home page known as The Front Door, which is 
still in use to this day. The hope was that the portal would be able to organize the 
almost 80,000 web pages on CMU servers. The designers claimed that the site was 
planned comprehensively and would not suffer the identity crisis that plagued the 
previous site. They also planned to work with CMU departments to plan their sites 
in concert with the Universitys. At the time, Carnegie Mellons website was the sixth 
most accessed among educational institutions.
1 YEAR AGO 
September 15, 2003
An electrical and computer engineering graduate student was robbed of $50 
and his watch when four then-unidentified juveniles threatened him with a 
toy gun. At the time, it seemed to him to be real, and was only determined to 
be fake after Campus Police apprehended three of the four assailants. The 
fourth, thought to be the leader of the group, was able to evade the police.
sg1u cSeehveSfk PwO, .r1tt
ChaangGl p5 sow/oPnot HNNZl3

---------------------------------------------------

Buzz-worthy art pieces
Carnegie Mellon grads show off with weird and wild displays
A trip to Pittsburghs cultural district, quite the task for 
some students and confusing to many, becomes easier 
when one meets another person headed in the same 
direction. By chance, however, that man on the bus just 
happened to be Thomas Sturgill, one of the six artists 
displaying their work at the destination gallery. It was 
a fortunate day to be coming to the gallery, as he noted 
that five of the six artists were giving talks about their 
art pieces.
The display at Future Tenant is titled Buzzing Out on 
(J, S, and A: Unject, Subcanny, Ablime. The ambigu
ous title lends a sort of mystery to the work. Another 
ambiguity is the relationship between the six art
ists, a point to which Sturgill attempted to give 
meaning to by explaining that while all installa
tions deal with technology, the human body and 
communication, the pieces are meant to work 
independently of one another. The artists are six 
second-year Carnegie Mellon graduate students 
itching to share their artwork with Pittsburgh, all 
with different things to say.
Upon entering the rectangular industrial space, 
ones sees why Sturgill wasnt able to answer 
many questions, mostly because no one would 
have had an idea of what to ask. Seven piec
es stood crammed together without a unified 
theme. Each piece is able to stand strong on its 
Dwn.
Placed directly in front of the door was Tiffany 
Sums Impression Dimension, a large and rath
er intimidating mechanical version of the silver 
needle impression toys you used to use to make 
an impression of your middle finger as an ado
lescent. The piece is meant to display physically 
an abstract sense of time, space, and the bodys 
Form. The viewer is invited to step in between the 
glowing white needles, and the two panels then 
enclose the body which transforms the needles 
into a piece of temporary artwork.
In the right corner of the room is a large rotat
ing miniature view of a forest, being filmed by a 
video camera on a tripod. The piece is Sturgills 
Miniature Study, which is more coherent after 
stepping on top of William Carvis installation 
piece, where the video is played. The footage 
simulates a long repetitive drive through the 
park through the view of a car window.
Astroturf with cut out paper leaves printed with the 
words the war on terror. Rakes with shiny new price 
tags hang on the wall as though in a shopping mart.
Next on the journey through the gallery is Jesse Hulcers 
Bad Luck Machine, which combines several of our 
cultures most predominant superstitions into one large 
installation piece. A BB gun aimed at a mirror sits atop an 
open ladder, which sits atop cracked cement. Connected 
to the ladder is a trash can filled with shards of broken 
mirror. A pulley opens an umbrella connected to the top 
step of the ladder. On the opening night of the show, 
September 3, a black kitten sat next to the machine.
A swinging light bulb is the centerpiece of Takehitos 
minimalist Light. To be an active participant in the 
piece, one stands hypnotized by the light bulb pendu
lum  until Takehito reminds the viewer that this piece 
is not just to look at. Takehito invites his viewers to lie 
down on the white mattress placed below the light bulb. 
Lying down and staring, viewers are mesmerized with 
the intense light, which moves with increasing speed 
over the audiences bodies. Viewers are told to close 
their eyes. Having done so they continue to be able to see 
the light through their eyelids; the impressions of color 
still remained present. Takehito wants people to ener
gize the act of seeing through a minimalist 
everyday object. He successfully alters image 
perception as the piece drastically changes 
from each vantage point.
Past Light sits The Filling Station, Matt 
Bartons memory of a Bozeman, Mont., bar 
recreated with cardboard. Ducking inside, 
the viewer enters a new world completely 
separated from the rest of gallery, and is 
confronted by a large screen playing back a 
rowdy country concert by a band frontlined 
by one of Barton's friends, Johnny Steel and 
the Decline of the West. In front of the display 
are crushed cans of PBR and an empty fifth of 
Mikers amid scores of cigarette butts. His talk 
livens up the box, which, deserted, takes on 
a feel of isolation and nostalgia. Matt stands 
behind the cardboard bar table, bottles of 
booze drawn behind him in magic marker, 
and fondly speaks of the days he spent in 
Bozeman as some of the best days of his life. 
When viewers leave, it will be clear that they 
have spent a rather good day as well.
Buzzing out on U, S, and A: Unject, Subcanny, 
Ablime is available for viewing until 
September 25. The gallery is open 4 to 8 pm 
on Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday and 
from noon to 8 pm on Friday and Saturday. It 
is located at 801 Liberty Avenue downtown.
Cos tfTuifu 
tnurfR edF-YRrdaR
The piece, which obstructs a direct view of the 
video screen, is called Fall Preview. The viewer 
is unable to move without stepping atop the green
Photo courtesy of Ben Bigelow
The display "Light" by Takehito. This piece encourages viewers to lie beneath the light.
4ChaangGl 13 September 2004.
i

---------------------------------------------------

Zenith Caf, restaurant with a vintage flair
Vegetarians and vegans rejoice at animal friendly delights
It can be hard to be a vegetarian in college. And yet there 
is some good news for animal-friendly students. There is 
hope! Look no further than Zenith Vegetarian Caf and 
Antique Gallery in the South Side for some good culinary 
tofu creations. Patrons can come for the strange antiques 
and the odd restroom, and stay for the food.
Zenith is a 4800-square-foot industrial space that com
bines an antiques store, a vintage clothing shop, an art 
gallery and a vegetarian restaurant. The antiques shop 
is 13 years old, while the restaurant opened only seven 
years ago. Zeniths restaurant started out as a small tea 
caf, but after their success with appetizers, soups, and 
salads they transformed it into a full service restau
rant with place settings and cloth tablecloths. Zenith 
used to be the only exclusively vegetarian restaurant in 
Pittsburgh, but now it competes against ventures such as 
Maggies Vegetarian Caf in Oakland.
The ambience immediately charms customers as they 
walk into an attic-like house with every nook filled with 
dusty knick-knacks and vintage housewares. The din
ing areas walls are covered with unique local art. The 
strange indie music matches the stenciled look of the 
contemporary-style paintings. The owner of Zenith takes 
pride in her unisex bathrooms, which she decorated her
self. The newer restroom includes an overload of owls 
gazing down as customers relieve themselves.
Zeniths style and vision were spruced up this year by a 
new owner, who remains unnamed. She wants college 
students to hang out at a hip tea caf, and is catering to 
young vegetarians. The venture is a family affair: her 
daughters help out as servers and she cooks up the meals 
from scratch. The last owner was a vegetarian so she cre
ated a vegetarian restaurant. Now the new owner carries 
on the tradition, but gives the eatery a vegan spin. She 
creates pies and cakes from scratch, intended for the for
gotten vegan sweet tooth. Local regulars take home mul
tiple helpings of the scrumptious desserts every week.
When the cake arrived, it appeared to be nothing more 
than a mundane slice of chocolate frosted bundt cake. 
Ultra-sweet chocolatey heaven. You will find yourself 
forking more and more of it into your mouth. Those who 
are skeptical about vegan desserts will soon be finding 
themselves gobbling up their words.
Zenith also offers an extremely wide selection of black, 
green, white, red and herbal teas. It takes a while for 
the servers to find your choice amongst the jumble of 
hand-marked jars of loose tea by the kitchen, but not as 
long as you will take to decide among the three pages 
of colorfully-named tea leaf combinations. I enjoyed 
reading entries such as Fruit of the Plain (fruit peels and
leaves) and Purple Mountains' Majesty (flower petals 
and leaves).
For an appetizer, try the apples-and-Gouda platter to 
share with a group of friends. The hard bread was a bit 
tough on the teeth, but the vegan red pepper spread, 
resembling a mayo-textured hummus, was a nice touch.
The entree comes with a choice of soup or salad. Last 
weeks soup was yam and carrot soup. It was a beautiful 
pumpkin colored soup that warmed the soul. The house 
salad came in a bowl filled to the brim with greens: 
romaine lettuce, a few cherry tomatoes, sliced carrots, 
raw snow peas and a single grape. Some might complain
Janet Pa ik/Staf(writer
The interior of the Zenith Caf, partially a large antiques display.
about the lack of salad dressing, but the salad was nice! 
complemented by the subtle oil and vinegar sprinkle 
with a bit of black pepper.
The linguini with white bean sauce was a nice twist o 
traditional pasta, and perfect for those who prefer nc 
to have tofu. Purely vegan, the sauce reminded me c 
a delicious bean and tomato soup. The marinated art 
chokes mixed in added a contrasting sharp saltiness t 
the subdued bean flavor. The pasta was al dente an 
came in a huge serving.
The tofu and mushroom marsala was a faux chicken dis 
magically created with extra-firm tofu, managing to b 
as chewy and juicy as poultry. The marsala sauce 1R 
created traditionally with red and Marsala wines; bi 
without the butter, the sauce was very weak and undii 
tinguishable. The mushrooms just got in the way of th 
bland sauce, and the rice was dry and too fragrant. Th 
thin covering of flavor makes you want to grab for th 
salt shaker, but it grows on you after time.
Instead of the tofu marsala, go for the tofu picatt
 where the homemade lemon sauce is just the rigl 
attitude and covers the tofu enough to make your mout 
think its actually chicken. The picatta omits the long re 
grains in the basmati rice, thus letting your palate save 
the eggless and chicken-brothless substitute. You ha\ 
to try it to believe it.
So bring your tofu-skeptical friends. Let them indulg 
in the desserts while you feast on the versatility of tof 
and other bean varieties. Teach them that beans are 01 
friends and can be really tasty, especially if you enjo 
being freaked out by a giant wooden fish or hawk glarin 
down at you during dinner.
Visit www.zenithpgh.com for the weekly menu and mor 
information.
The Zenith received a 3 out of 5 non-dairy delights.
tFuad lFR 
edF--YRrda
ChaangGl p5 sow/oPnot HNNZl

---------------------------------------------------

Last tracks are rotten eggs
Why is the second half of the CD always worse than the first?
[ listen to the CDs in my record collection a lot. At work, 
in my car, at home  it doesnt matter. The stuff that I 
like, I really like and I listen to that stuff probably a lot 
more than I should. Furthermore, I really think the best 
way to enjoy rock, electronic, rap, and other popular 
music is by listening to an entire record straight through. 
(Yes, I know rap is a singles genre. Bear with me.)
(ts ultimately a more rewarding experience to listen to a 
solid album instead of firing up your two or three favor
ite tracks every so often on your iPod. There are two key 
problems with this approach to musical enjoyment, one 
of which is that 40 minutes is typically at the high end of 
most of our attention spans and/or available free time. 
The second and more vexing problem is the fact that the 
second half of virtually every album Ive ever heard is 
not as good as the first.
Go ahead, look through your collection with me, and pick 
out a few of your favorites  Ill get a handful of mine. 
Ive got Nirvanas Nevermind, Radioheads OK Computer, 
Dr. Dres The Chronic, and the Chemical Brothers Dig 
Your Own Hole  not bad, right? Look and see where all 
the true landmark tracks lie. (Do it  interactivity is fun. 
At least do it in your head.) Hmm ... Smells like Teen 
Spirit, Paranoid Android, Nuthin but a G Thang, 
Block Rockin Beats, and so on, all within the first 20 
minutes of their respective discs. This isnt always a bad 
thing  sometimes you dont want to wait all day before 
hearing an old favorite, but the fashion in which even 
great albums are frontloaded is remarkable. This is not 
to say that second halves of albums are necessarily bad; 
its just that even on the mightiest of records they almost 
always pale in comparison to their counterparts.
The second half of Guns 'n Roses  Appetite for Destruction 
has Sweet Child of Mine on it, for crying out loud, but 
who ever bothers to listen past Paradise City? As we 
slide down the quality scale, this naturally means that 
on mediocre or bad albums, youre not doing yourself 
any favors slogging through to the bitter end. Spice, the 
debut album of those world-renowned masters of song 
craft the Spice Girls, finds its first three singles, Wan
nabe, Say Youll be There, and 2 Become 1, in the 
first three slots on the album. This is not an accident.
In fairness, there are a few exceptions to the rule, most 
of which appear in the Rolling Stones catalog (see Some 
Girls or Exile on Main Street for a primer on how to close 
out a set). In recent times, though, its become almost 
impossible to find an album as strong on its B-side as on 
its A-side. Theres a definite lack of such records from 
the last two decades, although the luminous 3-song co
das on Radioheads The Bends and R.E.M.s Automatic 
for the People are refreshing counterexamples.
More common are records that are nicely modulated for 
almost their entirety but slip up on the last track or two
 couldnt Billy Corgan have closed the book on Smash
ing Pumpkins Siamese Dream after Silverfuck rather 
than dragging on for two more tracks?
There are any number of explanations for this phenom
enon, all of which I buy. One is a band either really early 
or really late in their career that simply doesnt have the 
depth of material to construct an entire record. Im not 
even going to bother citing examples here, considering 
how easy it is to find a band that doesnt have 10 good
songs. If I make a record, you had better believe that (a) 
it will have lots of filler and (b) that filler will be relegat
ed to the very end. Another clear example is established 
bands that get that urge to record experimental tracks in 
an effort to realize some sort of artistic vision. Yes, Perry 
Farrell, I am talking about the end of Ritual de lo Habit
ual. However, at risk of sounding like a cynic, I think the 
main reason albums are put together the way they are 
is just good business sense. Peoiple are going to start lis
tening at the beginning, and when you play a record for 
your friend, its those first few sounds theyre going to 
come away with and perhaps build interest from.
Thats just how it goes. So why not put the radio-friendly 
tunes right up front and leave the remainder of the re
cord to the die-hards? Well, I think that you and I, as 
music fans, just need to exercise some judgment in our 
listening habits. Its not hard to tell the difference be
tween a gradual drop-off and a phoned-in conclusion, 
so embrace the good ones as a whole and dont be afraid 
to Just Say No To Filler. Be strong.
Cu2RaY 0RFu$ri 
tnurfR edF--YRrdaR
Chang Glasgow/Photo Staff
ChaangGl p5 sow/oPnot HNNZl

---------------------------------------------------

Band with the "right" attitude
Conservative views from a NYC metal original
Lead singer of Iternal Bleeding, Jerry Lowe lets his rage take over. |ntema| B|eedng ^ (o tm|y ge( n(0 ,he ^ wowng (he cfowd
Delicatessen
nzbgHbpgol tc,ic oHg ,ad
Its French! It's got cannibalism! Well, that makes sense. French people eat 
well, so they would taste the best? Uh, right, the movie. This movie is set 
after the Apocalypse, but instead of dealing with seven-diademed beasts, an 
ex-circus clown (Dominique Pinon) has to deal with a landlord who is trying 
to sell him as fresh meat in a black-market deli. Well, it could be worse. He 
could be an ex-mime.
Les Triplettes De Belleville
nvyuGpgolc tc,ic oHg ,ad
The French theme continues with an animated film involving an orphan boy 
trying to win the Tour de France. His name is Champion, and he is kidnapped 
by the French mafia. So Champions grandmother has to hook up with three 
old women (the title triplets) in a jazz combo to free him from the French 
Godfather. Theres also a farting dog in there somewhere. Man, the French 
mafia? Ruthless  mesfesses.
The Ladykillers
nmGsgolc tc,ic oHg ,aA
This movie has the Coen brothers directing and Tom Hanks acting, so you 
should see it. More details? Hanks is playing a Southern professor leading a 
ragtag bunch whose goal is to rob a riverboat casino office. To do this, they 
rent a room from an old woman and tunnel through. She catches them, and 
hilarity ensues. Or murder. Or both, even. The Coen brothers can actually hold 
together a plot this bizarre, and they do so marvelously.
Troy
nfoSuGgolc Bc,ic oHg ,P
Historical travesty never looked so good, but it never had Brad Pitt before either. 
Yeah, Homer condensed 10 years of fighting into The Iliad, and the producers 
here further condensed it into nearly three hours of movie, so youre going to 
miss some stuff. Like, I dont know, any sort of faithfulness to source mate
rial. No gods wandering about, and they made the taking of Brisis far more 
PC than it really was. Well, for the ladies, youve got some eye candy, like Brad 
Joe Black Pitt, Orlando Leglas Bloom, and Eric Incredible Hulk Bana.
Buffalo 66
nfuHgolc tc,ic oHg ,ad
I remember when this movie came out. It was supposed to be Christina Ricci's 
first adult role (meaning she showed her boobies). Meanwhile, all I could 
think of was when she played the little girl in the Addams Family movie, and I 
was creeped out. Anyway, an ex-con kidnaps her from a dance studio to show 
off to his parents, who dont really care. However, she falls in love with him, 
even though hes trying to kill the Buffalo Bills kicker who caused him to go to 
prison. The thing to take from this weeks movies: if you kidnap women, they'll 
fail in love with you. And the French are crazy.
Before we start, I just want to get across that Im ex
tremely right-wing in my views....
Jerry Lowe, voxInternal Bleeding.
No kidding. Liberals, Michael Moore, John Kerry: none 
are safe from the spray of vocal ammunition spewing 
from Mr. Lowe, both on and off-stage. In a climate where 
stating a conservative viewpoint might sound the death 
knell for a mainstream musician, Internal Bleeding are 
the anti-Anti-Flag of aggro music. Imagine death-metal 
mixed with NYC hardcore, and you get an idea of the fu
rious hatred that is Internal Bleeding. Performing live, 
they needed no pyro  the chugga-chugga death-core 
that emanated from the guitars of Matt Ferrara and 
Frank Buffolino were enough to ignite the small crowd. 
Mosh pits usually dont work with a crowd in the tens, 
but IB provided just the right anthems. Working in a few 
plugs for Bush and swings at Kerry in between songs, 
Lowe riled the crowd into a fervor that was both shock
ing and awesome.
The consistency of the songs played, usually a mark 
against a band, worked in this setting if only to provide 
the background for the rage set forth. Consistency is not 
the only hallmark of this band, however. With a line-up 
that has finally settled into an equilibrium after years of 
flux (only the original drummer remains), this is a band 
built on strife and controversy. Lawsuits; successful 
tours followed by the collapse of their record company;
Albert Cohen/Senior Pillbox Staff
all provide that it is hatefuel that powers the fury that 
is Internal Bleeding. I had the opportunity to chat with 
main man Lowe backstage, i.e. in the parking lot behind 
the venue, after their set.
Having helped to define the NYC sound, with its beatdowns and monster riffs, Lowe feels that all the other 
[metal/death-core] bands now are just taking [our] 
sound. Doesnt matter to me, they can fucking have it 
 its an honor. But what you hear now is what me and 
Suffocation [another seminal NY band] pioneered.
Almost a decade after the first time they went out with 
Six Feet Under, IB find themselves in a similar position 
 new album about to be released, and poised once 
again for world domination. Surrounded by fans clutch
ing worn out CD covers in the hopes of getting his name 
scrawled across the infamous band logo, Lowe sums up 
his view of America and the events of the last few years: 
With America, were not just a strong people, but were 
also a busy people and with that we get forgetful.... We 
did bounce back, but (maybe) too good.
If you missed them this time around, you might get a 
chance this fall to catch them with a renewed Suffoca
tion. Get ready for the pit, yinz. If you want to know more 
of Jerrys views, contact him at jerryfromib@aol.com.
Albeit Cohen/Senior Pillbox Staff
C15aRd >fTau 
eaurfR lr115fO edF--
ChaangGl 13 sow/oPnot 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Strong reception for Cellular
In the end, enjoyable film gets three bars
For a film as patently ridiculous as Cellular, its surpris
ingly enjoyable. There was really not a single non-ridiculous moment of the movie; it had William H. Macy in a 
seaweed face mask, more product placement than you 
could shake a stick at, and a plot with at least as many 
holes as an old sponge. These cant even be considered 
failings, really, because the movie is fun enough that they 
can be overlooked. In fact, the movie sometimes requires 
you to overlook some of its finer points.
Luckily, director David R. Ellis gives the audience little 
time to realize theyre watching nonsense. Within two 
minutes of the start of the film, one woman is already 
dead and another has been dragged off kicking and 
screaming. No time for exposition here; Ellis only both
ers himself with the what, not the why or the who. As 
the harmless high-school science teacher Jessica Mar
tin (Kim Basinger) is thrown into a dark attic by some 
generic goons, we meet stereotypical surfer boy Ryan 
(Chris Evans), sharing good times with his friends on 
Santa Monica pier. His girlfriend just dumped him and 
hes having trouble letting go. As far as the audience is 
concerned, he doesnt have a job or any real backstory 
outside the movie  but its okay, because he has the 
coolest cell phone in the world, and he makes sure every
one knows it.
Ryans Pacific Coast utopia doesnt last very long, though, 
until a call from Jessica Martin arrives at his cell phone. 
Her captors smashed the phone in the attic where she 
was being held, but, being the resourceful high school 
science teacher type, she managed to rewire the phone. 
However, she had no control over where her call would 
go; desperately clicking wires together doesnt usually 
afford a person much choice. Like any other sane person, 
Ryan is incredulous at first, but he decides to be a good 
Samaritan and take his phone to the police station.
It cant be that easy, though. Virtually every college stu
dent knows how finicky a cell phone can be, but its not a 
fact that most movies deal with. In a movie like Cellular, 
though, its practically a necessity. The middle hour of 
the movie (with only about fifteen minutes before and 
after  Cellular clocks in at a mere 94 minutes) throws 
complication after complication at our protagonist, and 
most elicited more than a chuckle from much of the au
dience. By the end of the day Ryan had stolen two cars, 
destroyed one, and held up a cellular store at gunpoint
 and thats just the crimes he could be prosecuted for.
Chris Evans, whose only notable acting credit is the lead 
role in The Perfect Score, a comedy released earlier this 
year, can be considered the poor mans Seann William 
Scott; he has the same carefree attitude and West Coast
cockiness as the actor famous for American Pie's Steve Stifler. And that combination works great in Cellular. Here 
we have a kid  he cant be more than 22  thrown 
into an extraordinary situation that he is in no way pre
pared to deal with. Ryan makes the best of his situation 
and thinks on his feet, but he never moves into action star 
territory. He isnt running around sunny California whip
ping out roundhouse kicks and two-fisted gunplay  the 
only fighting back he ever does is hitting various thugs 
with a blunt object or two when the opportunity arises. 
And it feels right.
"Believability" is a word that cant be used often for Cel
lular. Interestingly enough the most believable parts of 
the movie are all the plot contrivances it throws at the 
characters. Traffic, batteries, reception, and difficult law
yers all get in Ryans way as he races across town to save 
a woman hes never even met.
The best reason to ignore all logic and rationality when 
you sit down in the theater to watch Cellular is how its 
put together. With a fantastic score rarely seen in this 
sort of movie, it draws you into the action very quickly, 
and the most memorable scene in the movie is complete
ly thanks to the song playing in the background  music 
is very tightly integrated into the experience.
The movie is very well-shot, too. There are plenty of wide 
shots to establish location, especially in the Santa Moni
ca sequences  the camera takes great advantage of the 
bikini-clad backdrop of a beautiful California day. The 
car chases are tight and fast, with plenty of in-car shots 
as Ryan goes barreling into oncoming traffic creating a 
real sense of speed and danger. The sequences watching 
Jessica holed up in the attic are not nearly as fun to watch
 the same few camera angles are used again and again, 
and it starts getting repetitive far too early in the movie. 
This is one of the biggest shortcomings of the movie, 
though, and all things considered, thats not so bad.
The sign of a good summer movie is if you walk away 
smiling. It means the movie accomplished its goal: to 
give the audience an hour or two of entertainment. Not 
to win an Oscar, not to provoke deep thought just to 
entertain. And Cellular does that remarkably efficiently. 
It might not be worth $9, but it is definitely a film to see, 
though no sooner than when it comes to McConomy lat
er this year.
,9Fu enu2Yr$A 
lRf2n$drfu vFuFgaR
Courtesy of New Lire Cinema
Chris Evans attempts to make a call on his ill-fated cell phone./
ChaangGl p5 sow/oPnot HNNZl

---------------------------------------------------

Criminal steals viewers time, money
American adaption of Argentinean hit doesn't stack up to much
Criminal is the American version of the Argentinean 
hit film, Nueve Reinas (Nine Queens). Unfortunately,' it 
proves, yet again, that Americans are capable of destroy
ing anything. A comparison of the two is not necessary; 
they are two separate films. However, being that Crimi
nal is based on the screenplay of Nueve Reinas, it truly 
shows a poor hand at adaptation. Criminal features no 
inventive quirks, clever dialogue, genuine emotion, or 
even unique cuts, angles, editing, or gimmicks. Without 
seeing the Argentinean version, one would find it hard to 
believe that this bland story was ever successful.
The inaugural effort from director Gregory Jacobs shows 
a textbook study of film. The elements are so solid that 
they become boring. The plot is simple. Rodrigo, played 
by Diego Luna, is a young con man. Richard (John C. 
Reilly) is a seasoned con man. They strike up a partner
ship and set out to conquer the world, or just Los Angeles. 
Along their ride of swindles and frauds, we meet some 
strange secondary characters. The most notable of these 
is Richards sister, Valerie (Maggie Gyllenhaal).
Richards home life seems to be crumbling around him. 
There are small details revealed throughout the film 
about Valerie and a lawsuit between her and Richard. 
The two are at odds for the duration of the story. Fur
thermore, Rodrigo is trying to earn money to pay off his 
fathers gambling debts. No, seriously, it is that cliched.
Cathy Sandrich is to be commended on one of the great
est modern travesties of casting. Apparently riding the 
wave of 2003s Anger Management, she cast Reilly as a 
bad guy (remember Arnie Shankman?), and not a bad 
guy in the sense of an action movie, just the kind of guy 
you want to slap across the face. Now, giving complete 
and total respect to John C. Reilly, he plays emotional 
characters flawlessly. But he is susceptible to typecasting, 
and that is what we have come to expect. He is a genu
inely nice guy. You want to feel bad for him. Hes like a 
big teddy bear. Not here  no sir! He is vulgar, and yet 
you cannot buy it from him. Reilly is just too good of a 
guy. This makes the performance flat and unbelievable. 
So, since the whole plot hinges on the offensiveness of 
his character, the tower begins to tumble very early on.
The bright spots (and oh, do they shine on this dull can
vas) are Gyllenhaal and Luna. Luna is adorable in the 
role, and, as Reilly tells him, he looks like a nice guy. 
His character is underdeveloped and underwritten, but 
he uses his lines to their fullest extent. He seems very 
natural and fluid in front of the camera. His demeanor is 
just right to play well off of Reillys lifeless delivery.
Gyllenhaal is quirky. It almost seems like she is reprising
her role as Lee Holloway in the spunky Secretary (2002). 
While her screen time is very limited, she excels in every 
scene in which she is involved. She is even able to bring 
some vitality into the blah performance of Reilly when 
they play face to face. Shes a terrific temptress. No other 
character is noteworthy, and even the main players are 
given very little development. They all have conveniently 
placed backstories motivating them, but minus a scene 
or two, the viewer feels no emotional involvement in 
their lives.
The other elements of the film are not poorly executed, 
but are unspectacular. The movie feels like it might have 
been good had anyone involved given the slightest bit of 
creative effort. The camera is played in such a straight
forward and uninspired manner that it simply serves to 
show what is going on. It does not add anything of sub
stance to the film. The picture goes in and out of focus a 
good deal; it is unclear why  maybe this was supposed 
to be a stylistic outlet for Jacobs. But besides this annoy
ing effect and a few quick camera moves, there is hardly 
anything to say about the visual style.
The cinematography is adequate. The film did not look 
bad, but it didnt look particularly good either. The writ
ing is sub-par (surprise, surprise  director Jacobs co
wrote it), and though it plays almost scene for scene with 
Nueve Reinas, it cuts out most of the best dialogue. One 
would hope that a revision would be an improvement 
over the original. Not this script. The ending is tacked on 
and is insulting to any form of intelligent life in the audi
ence. Its difficult not to pinch yourself hoping its a bad 
dream.
When all is said and done, this lackluster effort will go 
down as ultimately forgettable. It is a mediocre crime 
drama in a vastly overplayed genre. Poor John C. Reilly 
was just wasted in the wrong part here. Gyllenhaal and 
Luna can chalk this up to their growing list of impressive 
performances, but sadly, when they refer to Criminal in 
the future, most people wont know what they are talking 
about. It was a good thought to bring Argentinean suc
cess to America. It just didn't work out this time.
tFifu cf12idaru 
tnurfR edF--YRrdaR
Ccirtesy of Warner Film Productions
John C. Reilly, left, sighs at an eager Rodrigo (Diego Luna) as the two plot more hijinks.
ChaangGl p5 sow/oPnot HNNZlD

---------------------------------------------------

Courtesy of Stephanie Busi
The women's crew rows in the Dad Vails. The lightweight women's foursome placed second at the regatta, while the lightweight CMU men placed third.
A glimpse into CMU Crew
Hitting the water and the workout with the team
t is dark outside. There is no pre-dawn glow or that 
gentle yellowing of the sky that creates the feeling of 
sunrise even before it happens. It is dark. So dark it feels 
ike night, even though it is 5:30 am and technically the 
lew day is beginning. Not to mention the cold. The cold 
:hat comes unexpectedly because, well, it was 70 degrees 
/esterday at a reasonable hour, wasnt it? But this is the 
lour when you stumble around your room in darkness, 
mowing that a dropped pin will waken your roommate; 
:he hour when a shower starts off the way a pool does on
i summer dayperfect for swimming, horrible for batti
ng. At this hour, there are few cars outside and fewer 
people, and the feeling that washes up is, Why doesnt 
Safewalk run past two? No one is up at this hour, save 
me crazed reporter and a few stray cats. But as if out of 
lowhere, the Tartan Crew team marches by in slow pro
gression toward Skibo Gym, shadowed by the declining 
noonlight.
The team practices on the lower level of Skibo Gym, 
:omplete with crayon-box blue walls and an equally vi
brant green carpet upon which sit a few CDs and scat:ered weights alongside 30 or so ergometers, or, as they 
ire commonly called by the coach and team members, 
ergs. Just being indoors doesnt save the team for very 
ong; they are quickly directed by Donald Webber-Plank, 
he Head Coach, to run a lap outside.
An empty gym is one of the loneliest places on earth, and 
in Skibos case one of the dirtiest and draftiest. The crew 
members probably dont often see the gym empty. Webber-Plank bringing up the rear, they proceed back down
stairs to the practice room. First they are all enlightened 
by the Head Coach as to why there will be no river prac
tice today: The river has quickly risen due to rain and the 
water is moving so fast as to be dangerous. It becomes 
something like a board meeting; Webber-Plank addresses 
issues of missed practices, stopping to chat about upcom
ing events. At one point there is some banter back and 
forth from some of the teammates.
For the outsider, the things that Webber-Plank talks about 
seem like mysterious jargon. He mentions the tase trau
ma, something which is defined later as a type of work
out split into three 10-minute pieces. A piece, however, 
is simply a period of time that one rows. The practice is 
all indoors, and it lends a distinctly mundane flair to the 
teams workout. First everyone stands. There are a few 
sniffles, but they watch attentively as Webber-Plank goes 
through the motions of the proper technique for doing 
various things with the boat. Such as standing up, which 
is not simple when youre on a boat. The practice is more 
boring than brutal; about 30 minutes of pure rowing 
technique and very basic hand and arm motions, which 
would certainly make the weary want to sleep. Perhaps 
from conditioning, however, the whole team looks more
or less awake; maybe it was that lap they did outside.
After an eternity of just talking and the slow, painful pro
gression of hand and arm stretches to mimic the act of 
rowing, they finally sit down on the cumbersome ergs. 
Slowly, almost painstakingly, Webber-Plank runs them 
through the motions: arms pulled back, arms thrust for
ward. There isnt much difference between these posi
tions and the ones that they did without the machines, 
but its certain that this was the intent. This time, though, 
members of the team had mirroring teammates, who 
mimicked their motions in front of them. Finally, after 
the feeling of utter dullness has permeated everything, 
the practice ends with a sort of question and answer ses
sion between the coach and his team.
Stephanie Busi, a senior in history and the coach of 
the womens team, and Erica Shelver, a sophomore in 
mechanical engineering and the publicity chair for the 
team, had a chance to speak to why they would ever de
sire to be a large part of this seemingly bitter sport. Both 
Busi and Shelver agreed that you dont really join to be a 
part of winter training. According to Busi the water has a 
great appeal, and being out on the water is what gives a 
lot of draw to the sport. The two got into the sport at dif
ferent times in their lives, Busi has been on a crew team 
since her sophomore year in high school. In high school, 
the practices were after classes, but according to Shelver
noChaangGl 13 sow/oPnot 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

So what about those things the outside world wonders 
about? Do they ever fall in the river? Yes, they are given a 
test in which they must purposely fall into the river. Busi 
indicated that though she has never accidentally fallen, 
many other rowers have. What about the gigantic oars, 
which connote Vikings and barbarians? According to 
Shelver and Busi, they are not particularly heavy. Still, 
the look of them makes one skeptical.
ChaangGl p5 sow/oPnot HNNZl
every university goes to practice at or before dawn. Ac
cording to Shelver, rowing out of water has little appeal. 
But the team goes out and four miles and thirty min
utes later we watch the sunrise. This is certainly unique 
to the crew team; however, some would wonder if it is 
worth the cost of rising, and rowing, at 5:30 or 6 in the 
morning.
The emphasis that Shelver puts on the situation, though, 
is that you are obliged to go out every day and it becomes 
impossible to slack off at the sport. You dont ever want 
to go out there and not push yourself. Its got to be work
ing your ass off every single morning.
Believe it or not, though, the early morning practices are 
not completely relegated to the weekdays. Last Satur
day there was a fitness test, an untold luxury at 7:30 am 
rather than the usual time. Justin Samuels might wish 
that he missed the fitness test. Samuels is vice president 
of the teams board, as well as being a senior in materials 
science and engineering. He occasionally broke into fits 
of coughing during the interview, a tic he blamed on the 
rigorous test administered that morning. The test is in
tended, he explained, to decide which people should be 
assigned to each boat. If the coach wants to put out the 
strongest boat possible for an important competition, he 
must test all the members of the team to see where they 
stand. Samuels let in on a distinctly different flavor to 
the crew experience than Busi and Shelver had. Though 
he echoed their sentiments on the inability not to give 
the sport your all, Samuels also mentioned that some 
people cant get used to the hours.
My body hates it, he indicated. On why anyone would 
want to do crew at Carnegie Mellon: Samuels said that 
sometimes the school is the reason. Theres some school 
pride involved [in] beating the bigger teams, he said. 
Apparently, the Tartan crew has, at least recently, placed 
much better and more often than the University of Pitts
burghs and Duquesnes teams have.
Samuels also explained the details of how the team is 
split up. From a practice one might get the sense that the 
team members are a jumble. However, they are grouped 
among Novice and Varsity divisions, each of which has 
a mens and a womens team. The varsity group is fur
ther split into a heavyweight and a lightweight category; 
Samuels belongs to the heavyweight group.
Despite the sunrise and the beauty of the water, there 
are some distinct conflicts that arise from being involved 
in Tartan Crew. The large time commitment really does
Stephanie Busi (left) and Darbi Roberts (right) afterthey won gold in the womens open pair at the midatlantic champtionship.
affect your life. To do crew all-out you cant really do 
other activities, said Samuels. Other than the personal 
problems of committing time to the crew, he mentioned 
that the team has a large amount of turnover. You think, 
over the summer, Is this what I want to do with my life? 
Therere a lot of people who quit that say I dont have 
time for this.
Apparently, after four years Samuels does not feel this 
way. He came to crew in his first year of college simply 
because someone randomly accosted him from a booth 
on the Cut. Four years later he is highly involved in 
the team, an opportunity which is open to him in part 
because crew is a club sport. Being on the Board of Di
rectors of the team allows Samuels to have the chance 
to have a*say in the larger aspects of the team, such as 
feelings towards the coach and the allocation of funds. 
He indicated that theoretically, if the team decided upon 
the matter, they could fire their coach. The main activi
ties of the board, though, are trying to come up with the
large amount of money to support the team. The school, 
Samuels noted, only gives crew about a quarter of what 
its yearly costs are.
Four years of hard work have led to some great times 
for Samuels. He started crew, he says, because I kind of 
wanted to prove to my friends at home that I could be
come good at some sport. Instead, Samuels has found a 
group that has given him some of his best friends, a fact 
he attributes to the 10 weekends and every weekday of 
the year that he spends with them.
Tartan Crew has been around since 1987, but its uncer
tain whether anyone knows much about the close-knit 
group of people that slog their way to the gym or the riv
er every morning to participate in this demanding sport.
vr$Ta11a f9F 
lr115fO ,2rdfR

---------------------------------------------------

< 
students,usecredltwl6ely.com 
much better than
students.humantestsubjectsforcash.com.
students.u8ecreditwi8ely.com
A website 
designed to help 
make credit work 
for you,
not against you.
It includes tips 
on budgeting, 
saving and
avoiding credit pitfalls.
Because the more 
you know
about credit now,
/
the less painful 
your financial future 
will be.
Visit us today.
citi
Live richly.'
Til 1 *1S had vs icle
Flexible Leases 
1 Bedroom Unfurnished 
$ 759*
Includes all utilities plus free High Speed Internet
1 Bedroom Furnished 
$1295**
Includes everything, just bring a toothbrush
412-441-4445
fifthavesuites.com
* Minimum length of lease 9 months (two semesters)
** 3 month minimum stay required to qualify for this rate.
24 hour service. Resident Manager
1
Sports: 
You name it, 
well cover it.
sports@thetartan. org 
UC Room 314THE TARTAN
ChaangGl 13 sow/oPnot 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS.
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Mi casa es su casa. 2 bedroom apartment in 
charming 1903 house, short block to Murray 
Avenue shops, buses. AC, off street parking, 
sparking clean, nice porch, big equipped kitchenm 
laundry, small pets allowed, can be furnished, 
negotiable lease. $625 plus utilities; References 
412.422.5189
4 bedroom apartment $950 per month plus 
gas and electric, free laundry, walk to cam
pus, new carpets, huge room. 412.681.1138 or 
gvaux@mindspring.com
Help needed around house. Short walk from 
campus. Up to 10 hours per week. Flexible. 
412.802.7070. Please leave message.
3 bedroom 2 bath Squirrel Hill apartment. 
Convenient to universities, busway, parkway, and 
shopping. $800 plus utilities. 412.421.3051
Squirrel Hill house for rent. New paint, equipped 
kitchen, washer & dryer, dishwasher, garage. Attic 
for office and basement for storage. See pictures 
on the web at www.skrents.com; near CMU. 
$1195+. 412.657.5387
OPPORTUNITIES.
Hiring cashiers, pepperoni roll makers, and town 
criers in Pittsburgh's Strip District. /McKees Rocks 
Bread Company/ by Mancinis Bakery. Flexible 
hours, great pay. 412.765.3545
Wanted: Female secretary and companion to 
elderly person. 5 day weeks. 3-4 hours per day. 
$12 per house. 412.420.3350
All cash vending route for sale. 50 high traffic 
locations. $36,000 annual income. Cost $5000. 
800.568.1392 or www.vendingthatworks.com
IS YOUR DORM ROOM 
SHRINKING?
Get your own place 
Shadyside:
Studio $425 utils, included! 
Regent Square:
All new 1BR $450 + g/e 
Pride Realty 888-274-6536 
www.pride-realty.com
Spring Break 2005. Travel with STS, Americas 
#1 Student Tour Operator to Jamaica, Cancn, 
Acapulco, Bahamas and Florida. Now hiring oncampus reps. Call for group discounts. Information/ 
Reservations 1-800-648-4849 or www.ststravel. 
com .
Recruiting 18-24 year old males and females to 
serve as peer educators who will be trained to 
present sexuality education programs to teens 
throughout Allegheny County. No previous experi
ence necessary. Paid training. Day/evening/week
end hours available. Possible internship opportuni
ties. Excellent opportunity to gain health education 
experiecne. Public speaking skills desired. Valid 
PA Drivers license preferred. For more information 
regarding this position please call 412.288.9960 
or 412.288.2140 and ask for Angelica.
$450 Group Fundraiser 
Scheduling Bonus
4 hours of your groups time PLUS our free (yes, 
free) fundraising solutions EQUALS $1,000- 
$2,000 in earnings for your group. Call TODAY for 
a $450 bonus when you schedule your non-sales 
fundraiser with CampusFundraiser. Contact 
CampusFundraiser, 888.923.3238, or visit www. 
campusfundraiser.com
CAMPUS REPS! SPRING BREAKERS!
Earn $$ or Discount for all the HOT Spring Break 
trips!
NEW - Las Vegas! Puerto Vallarta! 28 Years of 
Student Travel
TWO Free Trips -15 travelers 
866.SPRINGBREAK (866.777.4642) 
www.usaspringbreak.com
Page (part-time)
Customer Services Department 
Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh 
High school diploma or equivalent. Candidate 
should possess a can-do attitude while performing 
a variety of general and specific library duties as 
assigned. Job assignments will require candidates 
to work both independently and as part of a team. 
Work required physical ability to bend, stoop, 
reach, stand for prolonged periods of time, push 
heavy book trucks and lift books, boxes, tools, or 
equipment. 3-60 pounds. The work environment 
can be warm and dusty. 20 hours/week including 
evenings and weekends . $6.01/hour. Send to: 
Human Resources, 4400 Forbes Avenue, Pgh.,
PA 15213 or email to : careers@carnegielibrary. 
org. EOE.
Work-at-home mom seeks someone to watch her 
delightful 3 year old daughter for 2-3 hours a day,
2-4 mornings or afternoons a week in my Sq. Hill 
home, very close to CMU. Since Mom is home, no 
diapering or feeding is required. Wage and hours 
are flexible. Spanish language skills are a plus, 
but not necessary. Please call (412) 421-1389 
for more information.
Start your own Fraternity! Zeta Beta Tau is looking 
for men to start a new Chapter. If you are interest
ed in academic sucess, a chance to network and 
an opportunity to make friends in a non-pledging 
Brotherhood, e-mail zbt@zbtnational.org or call 
800.431.9674.
CLASSIFIED ADS
are available at the following 
weekly rates:
1-20 words: $10 
21-50 words: $12 
51-80 words: $15
Ads for Carnegie Mellon students and for 
services to the community are gratis at 
The Tartans discretion.
To place an ad, send the full text of the ad 
and the advertiser's name, address, and 
phone number to:
 E-mail: advertising@thetartan.org
 Postal mail:
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh PA 15289-1017 
Fax: 412.268.1596
Ads will be billed after each run.
All classified ads must be submitted by
5 pm on the Thursday before publication.
Do you enjoy finding fault in other peoples work? 
Do you enjoy getting PAID for it?
Send inquiry to: 
copy@thetartan. orgJoin Tartan Copy
1ChaangGl 13 sow/oPnot 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
HOROSCOPES
BY DINAH WINNICK
Giant Ninja Robot Comic by Zachary Beard
1
ARIES (March 21 - April 19): A horrible near-death experience will 
lead you to reconsider life as a mediocre magician and ponder your true 
internal desires, dreams, and goals. Unfortunately you will still have to 
get out of the straitjacket, the chains, and the steel chest, swim to the 
surface, and flag down a rescue vehicle to take you to shore.
TAURUS (April 20 - May 20): Everyone thinks your online alter ego 
Armando is a pretty cool guy. You may want to take a few pointers.
GEMINI (May 21 - June 21): Just think of this failure as bringing you one step closer to 
realizing your true calling in the overseas beverage distribution world.
CANCER (June 22 - July 22): Dont just throw out that wrinkled, smelly piece of aged 
produce in the back of your fridge. Remember, everything is tasty when fried, and every
thing can be fried.
LEO (July 23 - August 22): You may eventually have some luck referring to your acne 
scars as being from that horrible dirt-biking accident when my band was touring in 
Portugal." No one will believe you, but someone may find your creativity charming.
VIRGO (August 23 - September 22): You may provide a service to your community, but it 
doesnt really count as community service.
LIBRA (September 23 - October 23): Keep up with all the hard work and someday in the 
next 12-15 years you too could have a nice aboveground pool in Jersey.
SCORPIO (October 24 - November 21): Some days are magnificent opportunities to learn, 
enjoy life, and grow as a person. Others are like today.
SAGITTARIUS (November 22 - December 21): The great thing about food poisoning is 
that after 48 hours youll hardly even remember it stopped by for a visit, no matter how 
agonizing and terrible those actual 48 hours are.
CAPRICORN (December 22 - January 19): You will finally see the light at the end of the 
tunnel. Unfortunately you will still have 14 sewage pipes to trudge through before your 
freedom from the state penitentiary is certain.
AQUARIUS (January 20 - February 18): Buck up! Debt, failure, and insurmountable 
obstacles are character-builders. Embrace them with the enthusiasm and respect they 
deserve or the other, more positive nouns will get angry and gang up against you.
PISCES (February 19 - March 20): Tomorrow you will realize that life would have been so 
much easier had you remembered what you will forget to do today after reminding yourself 
repeatedly to remember it.
A Day Without Sunshine by Yann Seznec
\r
b n
T I
...TO IEr THtr VKLP IH A
OiFrERrut uT...
I.. sic fi-eoUteTTieiv/s o2- aiAifs...
 5
I
, ;
id
- ;  ' V
r ' I
- ' -
14ChaangGl p5 sow/oPnot HNNZl

---------------------------------------------------

Xword^:
Xti 18^ ^e\rvz Co. e<ec-VeA A-Ke 
Wo^-S-V c\ecVnoo\ sj3<'' in 
-We. wor\<i , lz, 000 l\0)Vte 
cx HOWV ^>\c\^\e 4o^>tDMP^e
4^e\r ^rcxKouS ^loapri...if Op ur>V\ 4^e \^/>0? 
ji atNyorfe wvtt> a 
971c could
receive t,s or yrc4oc\S-_
XtTzBOO ^COiASftMS/ 
pcx.\<i j|^7 Kvl\*-to 
vove ~fte 5>W"\um> t roiled
Classic Crossword v, Ce1U .d,1u
ACROSS4.Scholar
6.Neurological disorder exacerbated by
2.Strongly disposed to lovestrobe lights
5.Campanile7.A shabbily clothed, dirty child
8.Cantankerous9.The fundamental number of any system
12.Region of France10.Disease related to smoking
13.Pressure gauge11.Insane asylum
16.Size doesnt matter; its all about__14.Pulmonary disease commonly caused by
21.All your base are belong to us. You are onexposure to cold and dampness
the way to__15. .Severe
22.Amalgamation17.Massive egoism
25.Loquacious18.An ants paradise
28.Chocolate covered__nuts taste amazing19.Protein
31.Hendrix didnt play guitar, he wailed on an20.Germanic; Teutonic
__23.To bend, warp, or crumple
32.A chronically dissatisfied person24.A close questioning or examination
35.Emotionally hardened26.Hey, nice__, do you have any nutmeg?
36.Having strong sexual appeal27.The promised land for cartoonists
40.Receding tide29.Pugilists like to__
41.A stick used in billiards30.German desert
43.Sexually potent33.Lustful and bawdy
45.A tombstone inscription34.An unnecessary or wasteful project or
46.A tree from which you can make shoesactivity
47.To soil37.Shiny mollusk
48.Inquire38.Lubricating fluid
49.Scrimmage39.Red hat
42.Ephemeral trend
DOWN44.Snot
46.Genre of music
1.A drum from Mali
3.To deride
 n mm 
in iiiianiii
II  Ifl II IIH 
Pittsburgh Stories by Eli Pousson
Pillbox. 13 sow/oPnot 2004.
2 by 4! by Aaron Kablack
AND IN OTHER NEWS, POPULAR SINGER STING WAS JEPI TODAy IN A CEREMONY 
AT BUCKINGHAM PALACE...
^ W creaU^e%<^ 
lh \8RG oSVer see>T3 on 
cv<d ver4< sei^ervV 3(r 
(< z_t 54"yte5* oi 5Voe5 
A+'We^-iiAe W,e. conpcwy 
already over 60 \wete
To<4oy -VKey o^fer ^700 
pto<i uceA \v, $eusto\ oourta

---------------------------------------------------

comics
THY ikfjko Cj> <> 2
Spor t s,A1
I HKE Soon WHO 15 fERfCtTfe* 
ME, Bur X HA^E A pRo&iin 
IQ.Ju niorrStSa ano ir p^cvent* r*\t
ATTfiflCrgJ) S6//U6 To thM. 
HouJ CAitJ X 5Top &Eitf6 SHfl(.cwf>
-Stuc In TH6 Sppuoh; spaw
LOCK, OU* f(eiwt> 15 
C^nM. X wonE*
WHflT V WieowG t
rrtA^B "rii/ (an lCSn 
SOMETHING Fom Mr 
Je.gth/o SElP - rsmddIh i
&0OJTlN PufpET 5HOUJ.
<v
if. ls cH1e HccRhe
YOK fo WHO To/
A At/ t2ci He's
Tut flL 
SMfti-lOW On '
\
A 8^ /4T SCHOOL 
CAtt-GD ME''SHftCCoW' 
66CAUS X oNtr 
ulKB Goob Looking 
fi<ch 6urs. ^ '
fw eNYInkTYou dSosHp
Wtfffx*i e*urrRRhNOW
Mep'PSPEc<A. !
7H(?e'r AJO elOK uWof/,2 
THftT. Yo LI&S AUD bl 
MP^E Yow THE SptClAi.
PK<w Yo<J A/
WiTw
Yov see! No&oor 
15 SH/IUOW/ 
wRe Atc 
t>Ep'tSlD}
(
DP.
Jwr
rtPTr. op 
) C(JAp.
/ <
V/SIT: TiNYSlPu^-CoA WRITE'.T/MYSEPUKl>'e>HoTMA)L.O>M
duckbar
Weekly inspiration from the ominously brooding pond
Fernando was skulking around the pond pondering how he could 
prove that the old lady was feeding him poisoned bread crumbs. His 
bill was downcast; he stared into the water as if an answer to his ques
tion would appear out of the murky green depths. Suddenly he heard 
the sweet quacking of his long-time girlfriend, Maria. He looked up 
and saw her graceful silhouette through the boughs of a weeping wil
low tree. He was about to call out her name, but then he noticed another figure floating 
next to her within the privacy of the foliage. Fernando silently paddled closer. It was his 
archnemesis, Rogelio! Fernando had hated him ever since they were ducklings. Rogelio 
ruined a mini-replica of Michaelangelos David that Fernando had spent weeks making 
out of mud and twigs. Fernandos career as an artist was over before it had even begun, 
and he would never forget that it was Rogelio who tainted his love of art. As Fernando 
watched Maria and Rogelio flirting unabashedly, a plan started to form in his mind....
o
O
Comics Trivia 
Question:
Last week's answer:
Gold Kryptonite would 
permanently strip 
Superman of all his pow
ers.
Q: What was the 
original name of idiot 
Mad Magazine mascot 
Alfred E. Neuman?
Write 
comics@thetartan.org 
and get a chance to win 
a pass to this weeks AB 
Films!
4 O +/} i'v'lij 5^(555 
rf 6>krek % 4 k a&\\ m
defies mM* fiAskeo( ]o
fan *0*6/ 4v
?
5s/ f jots,
inSIGHT by Jimi Okelana
HEY, MY NAMES JIM
/ I'M ANNA
YOU LIVE AROUND HERE? 
/ YEA
WHAT MAJOR ARE YOU?
/ UNDECIDED
\
Tyler and Fred by Greg Prichard
11:45 by Ed Ryan
ChaangGl p5 sow/oPnot HNNZl
Campus Celebrities by Lisa Troutman
You know hes coming because you see the 
signs. There are signs for this week.
YOU'RE NEVER GOING TO 
TALK TO ME AGAIN, ARE YOU..
NOPE.
Frequent Book Sale Dude 
strikes again. Check it out.
THAT'S COOL..
/
Tiny Sepuku by tinysepuku@hotmail.com
quietly
by way
of bus
of the

---------------------------------------------------

Bob the Angry Flower by Stephen NotleyRed Light by Bill Bernstein
n
Whatever, by Tim Kelly

LITHUANIAN StAttC TORTUR
All Hail the Jon by Jon Samuels
ChaangGl 13 sow/oPnot 2004.17

---------------------------------------------------

_comics.
Comickaze:
Jinx! The Forgotten Brian Michael Bendis
The dialogue, though, is indisputably the main draw of 
his work. Several readers are frustrated with the dense
ly packed pages, and complain that his books are slow 
reads, but I see this complaint as the kind of response 
that always rides in the wake of an artist doing some
thing really different and innovative. The conversations 
are very natural, and build the characters from the way 
their dialogue is written. My favorite aspect is when a 
character, especially Goldfish, digresses from the plot to 
tell a story. The whole aura of storytelling is captured, 
from language to gestures and expressions. In the same 
way that one stops consciously noticing subtitles while 
watching a foreign film, so also does the storytelling in 
Jinx and Bendis other comics break the shackles of its 
medium.
So how did Bendis career suddenly diverge from this 
work? A digression into the context of comics publish
ing 15 years ago would help frame this analysis. The 
business of publishing comics then was very lucrative,
Image courtesy of Caliber Comics Image courtesy of Caliber Comics
The cover of Jinx. David Goldfish Gold offers a bribe in AKA Goldfish.
Brian Michael Bendis is the Quentin Tarantino of com
ics; a three-time Eisner Award-winning artist. The title 
that started this Cleveland artists career, Jinx, also 
typified the cinematic, fragmented, verbose scripts that 
transform every page of the comics into an often-paro
died bubble bath of dialog. His style saturates his work 
on Marvels Daredevil and Ultimate Spiderman, both 
entertaining comics, but the comics that should demand 
even more of our attention are his pre-superhero stories 
from the mid 90s that he produced for a Cleveland pub
lisher called Caliber Comics.
These comics began as a series of one-shot short sto
ries titled AKA Goldfish about an enigmatic, small-time 
Cleveland scam-artist with a rap sheet longer than 
Tupacs named David Goldfish Gold. AKA Goldfish 
was a character-driven, experimental crime-noir 
comic that wove inked drawings, Xeroxed photographs, 
and collage into a high-contrast layout that juxtaposed 
flowing sections of dense dialogue with ebbs of silent, 
moment-to-moment animation. The style and the char
acters from AKA Goldfish crystallized in his ten-issue 
masterpiece Jinx. The plot mixes up two con artists, a 
bounty hunter, and three million dollars, and then lets 
it play out. The titular character, Jinx Alameda, is the 
most interesting twist on the story: a quiet, tea-andcrumpets Jewish girl who spends most nights writing in 
a journal and, in the course of things, winds up as the 
hard-ass bail bondsman of the story.
easily topping both the golden age and silver age of com
ics combined. This invited the kind of rampant specula
tion that characterized the economics of the early 90s. 
Independent publishers found a veritable wellspring of 
capital to fund as many artists as could be found out of 
art school. By far the most successful of this new gen
eration of publishers was Image Comics, formed by frus
trated artists from Marvel and DC, who exploded onto 
the market mainly by virtue of Todd McFarlands hugely 
successful Spawn. Images enormous capital made them 
an avant-garde recruitment machine. Their most famous 
recruit was The Maxx creator Sam Keith, whose story 
could be a column in and of itself. Bendis, however, was 
recruited at the same time from Caliber.
After being recruited, Bendis old comics virtually disap
peared, including his few other Jinx-related stories that
he made early on for Image, a spy comic called Fire, and 
another dark comic, Torso, about an actual 30s Cleveland 
serial killer. He translated some of the ideas and style 
into a Spawn spin-off called Sam and Twitch, which put 
him on the fast-track to success and landed him in the 
gainful writing position he has today. The speculation 
bubble burst, however, leaving Bendis forced to work 
on superhero comics presently. This isnt entirely a loss, 
however, as his critique of the whole superhero culture, 
Powers, has been compared to Alan Moores landmark 
comic The Watchmen, with a kind-of police-drama twist. 
Furthermore, his mainstream popularity has created a 
kind of renaissance for his early work, which are now 
being published as graphic novels.
vFO 4Fn--oFu 
>for$i edF--
18ChaangGl 13 sow/oPnot 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY 13.FRIDAY 17.ONGOING
Caf Scientifique Pittsburgh. Penn Brewery, 7:30 pm. 800 Vinial 
Street. 412.237.9402.
Free Vegan Food. 7 pm. Porter Hall 126A. Sponsored by the 
Campaign for a Foie Gras-Free Pittsburgh.
TUESDAY 14.
Arsenal Bowling College Night. $6 cover and 50-cent games 
and drafts, 9 pmmidnight. Arsenal Bowling Lanes, 212 44th St. 
412.683.5992.
Minute Maid Light Sampling. Entropy. 11 pm-1 pm.
President Cohon's Office Hour. 5 pm. Contact Dean Murphy via 
e-mail: mmlv@andrew.cmu.edu.
Punk Rock Night at Margaritaville. Anarchy in the I.C. 9:30 pm. 
2200 E. Carson St. 412.431.2200.
Speak Your Mind: Diversity Discussion and Dinner.
5-6:30 pm. Immigration: Global Flash Points." Facilitated by Lisa 
Krieg, Director of International Education. West Wing TV room. RSVP 
required, ehalf@andrew.cmu.edu. 412.268.2075.
 B.B. Holiday. Blue Note Caf. 10 pm.
The World According to California. Urban Mountain Gathering 
Place. 6:00 pm. Mt. Washington. $20/person at the door. 
www.grapenuts. org.
Fraternity Bid Nights. 1832 E. Carson Street. 412.431.7080.
Good Fridays. Andy Warhol Museum. 5-10 pm. 117 Sandusky St. 
412.237.8300.
Jerry Seinfeld at the Benedum Center. 7-9:30 pm. 719 Liberty 
Avenue. 412.456.6666.
Penn Oktoberfest. 5 pmmidnight. Penn Brewery. 800 Vinial 
Street. 412.237.9402.
Multicultural Student Organization Fair. 4:30-6:30 pm.
Kirr & Wean Commons, University Center.
Pittsburgh Professionals Night at PNC Park. PNC Park.
5:30 pm. $20. RSVP at www.pump.org. 115 Federal Street. 
412.323.5000.
WEDNESDAY 15.
SATURDAY 18.
Black Tie Revue. Club Caf. 11:15 pmmidnight. 56 South 12th 
Street. 412.431.4950.
Sports Mike Night. Sports Rock Caf. 8 pm-2 am.
1400 Smallman Street. 412.552.1000.
The Toasters at The Rex Theatre. 1602 East Carson Street. 
412.381.6811.
Acoustic Open Stage. Hosted by Abby Ahmed. 9 pm. Shadow 
Lounge.
THURSDAY 16.
25th Annual Latin American and Caribbean Carnival.
2 pm-midnight. William Pitt Union, Center for Latin American Studies. 
3959 Fifth Avenue. 412.648.7394.
Greater Pittsburgh Renaissance Festival. Festival site.
10:30 am-6:30 pm. 112 Renaissance Lane, www.pgh-renfest.com.
Pennsylvania Gun Collectors Show. Pittsburgh ExpoMart.
105 Mall Blvd. #230E, Monroeville. 412.856.8100.
Pittsburgh Dragon Boat Festival. South Side Riverfront Park. 
9am-5pm. 18th Street and the Monongahela River. 412.481.0651.
Pittsburgh Panthers vs. Nebraska Cornhuskers. Heinz Field. 
TimeTBA. 100 Art Rooney Ave. 412.323.1200.
Dollar Madness Thursday. Bloomfield Bridge Tavern. 4 pm-2 am. 
4412 Liberty Avenue. 412.682.8611.
Grease. Palace Theatre for the Performing Arts. 8 pm. 21 W. 
Otterman Street, Greensburg. 724.836.8000.
Kendo Class: Learning the Samurai Sword. Trees Hall. 5:30 
7:30 pm. Allequippa Street and Darragh Street. 412.628.8210.
Love is Red. The World. 7 pm. All ages. 1650 Smallman St. 
412.642.2941.
Salsa Dance Lessons. 8:30-9:30 pm. Dowe's on 9th. 121 Ninth 
St. 412.281.9225.
SUNDAY 19.
Chicken Swing. Joe Mama's in Oakland. Beginners swing lesson.
7 pm. $2.00 or free with dinner. 412.337.6145.
Norma Jean. The World. 8 pm. 1650 Smallman Street. 412.642.2941.
^ V-., ... -
Salsa Dancing. Club Havana. 7 pm-Closing. Cost: $5. Beginners 
lesson at 7 pm. 5744 Ellsworth Ave. 412.661.2025.
Taj Mahal. Byham Theatre. 7:30 pm. 101 Sixth Street. 412.456.1350.
Adam Sipe: Emerging Artist. September 12-November 7.
10 am-5:30 pm. Pittsburgh Center for the Arts. 6300 Fifth Ave. 
412.361.0873.
Bonsai. September 13October 5. Phipps Conservatory and 
Botanical Gardens. Free to CMU students with student ID.
1 Schenley Park. 412.622.6914.
Early German Prints. September 13October 31. Noon-5 pm. 
Carnegie Museum of Pittsburgh. 4400 Forbes Avenue. 412.622.3236.
Keith Carter: Poet of the Ordinary. September 8-11.
Noon-5 pm. Silver Eye Center for Photography.
1015 E. Carson St. 412.431.1810.
VOX
POPULI.
THE OFFICIAL VOICE 
OF A-MAIZING STUFF
A&
 59 
2 -? r
s' <*8 o 
 ? % I I
TTS THE TRI FORCE OF COURAGE

fe.
&
 \O' *X
r
$Co
BAlES'
&.O
O,rt
And corn. Im going to have 
corn way up the wazoo.
whaangGl 13 sow/oPnot 2004.i<y>
/

---------------------------------------------------

Kelly Duncan/Photo Staff
Contemporary Africa Abroad: Senior art major Josh Atlas gazes at one of the many pieces 
featured in the new exhibit opening at the Regina Miller gallery.
