PILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Jones lectures on the Internet of Things  A4
Carnegie Museum of Art debuts Look Again  B4Womens soccer continues undefeated season  A10
SPORTSSCITECH
thetartan.org
@thetartan
September 15, 2014
Volume 109, Issue 4
Clyde House opens to promote global living, learning
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-in-Chief
At the end of the spring 
semester last academic year, 
students were invited to apply for housing in a new campus location, Clyde House, 
located at 624 Clyde St. off 
Fifth Avenue. 
Since then, students have 
moved into the newly renovated facility that houses 
students interested in the 
global community. 
The Of?ce of the Dean of 
Student Affairs has dubbed 
the house a Global Living 
Learning House in which 
students with intercultural 
interests can explore their 
roles as citizens of the world, 
according to the of?ces website.
Renee Camerlengo, Assistant Dean of Student Affairs 
and Clyde House housefellow, described the house 
as one in which Pittsburgh 
Carnegie Mellon students 
and exchange students live 
together to gain an increased sense of cultural 
competency.
The house has a capacity 
of 28 beds, according to Director of Housing Services 
Thomas Cooley. 
Currently, the 
facility is home 
to students in 
seven doubles 
and three triples, 
as well as a community adviser 
(CA) responsible 
for Clyde House, 
Neville Apartments, and Shady 
Oak Apartments. 
The CA has a 
single room on 
the ?rst ?oor of 
Clyde House, 
according to 
?oor plans 
on the Of?ce 
of the Dean 
of Student Affairs website. 
Currently, the rooms have 
both undergraduate and 
graduate students, according to Camerlengo.
The house contains notable spaces such as an enclosed porch that serves as 
the houses entrance and a 
small ?tness area, a kitchen, 
a parlor common area on the 
?rst ?oor, second and third 
?oor common areas, and a 
study room on the second 
?oor. 
There is an outdoor porch 
?tted with colorful porch 
chairs on the front right side 
of the facility as well.
You get the suite-style, 
apartment-style space.... all 
coming out into community 
space, Cooley said of the 
building. So its a space that 
gives you privacy but also is 
very easy to have some intimate, nice spaces.
Behind the house, the 
university has repaved a 
parking lot and the driveway leading to it, which will 
serve as a space for university vehicle parking. 
Cooley said he plans to 
provide outdoor picnic areas 
for residents in a plot of land 
next to the lot to grill and 
relax.
The renovations to the 
new housing facility cost the 
university about $1.8 million, according to Cooley. 
Demolition of the building took place in April with 
a proposed timeline of ?nishing renovations by Aug. 
1. Construction of the new 
rooms and community spaces began in May, and renovations were completed during 
Orientation week.
Cooley said that with 
renovations, Housing Services hoped to capture the 
nostalgic aesthetics of the 
previous building, such as 
a grand staircase leading 
to the second story, stained 
glass windows, and multiple 
?replaces, while updating 
the building with a modern 
look, such as the addition 
of new wooden ?oors, overhead lighting ?xtures, and 
bright red back stairwells.
In 2012 Carnegie Mellon 
purchased a set of properties on Fifth Avenue and 
Clyde Street from the Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh, 
including 624 Clyde St., for 
approximately $5 million. 
The building previously 
housed the Roselia Center, a nonpro?t organization owned 
by the dioceses 
Catholic Charities 
that helped women 
and their children find 
apartments in the area.
Clyde House was established as a new facility where the university 
can help students to develop as global citizens, 
a goal that Camerlengo 
said is a commitment of 
Crepes Parisiennes applies for liquor license
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
Crepes Parisiennes is looking to provide customers with 
more than its already-wide 
range of crepes, waf?es, and 
pastries  it is now applying 
for a liquor license.
According to documents 
from the Of?ce of City Clerk, 
a resolution for a transfer of 
licenses to the owners of the 
creperie has passed. Although 
it is not clear when the license 
will become effective, the documents state that the restaurant will soon be able to sell 
liquor. 
The expansion into alcohol 
sales is the latest evolution 
of a business that started in 
1998 as a cart on the corner 
of Margaret Morrison and 
Tech Street. There, co-owner 
David Handler sold crepes before the spot was given over to 
students in the Tepper School 
of Business. It is now used for 
vending freshly grilled burgers and hot dogs.
In 2000, after two years 
of selling crepes from a cart, 
Handler opened Crepes Parisiennes in Shadyside, and four 
years after that, established 
a location on S. Craig Street 
This past August, however, 
Handler chose to close down 
his Shadyside location, in favor of promoting the Craig 
Street site. 
We did well there, and I 
took a pay cut, he explained. 
But I wanted to build up business for this great location. 
A part of accomplishing this 
goal will be the inclusion of 
alcohol on the menu.
Handler, along with coowner and wife Shannon Handler, is looking to increase the 
seating available at the Craig 
Street location. The plan is to 
erect a sun room in the back, 
along with patio seating in the 
interim. 
Handler speculated that, 
with time, Crepes Parisiennes 
might offer a wide selection of drinks and cultivate 
a bar-like atmosphere in the 
expanded areas. This change 
would come complete with 
extended hours two or three 
nights a week.
Currently though, Handler 
wants to keep things simple 
and classic: What I really 
would like to do is sell hard cider, he said. Its traditional. 
His idea corresponds with 
a practice stemming from the 
Brittany region of France. 
The area is known both for 
its crepes and hard cider, 
which Handler said pair well 
together. 
He has not decided on 
what brand he would like to 
serve, but he is already considering his options. He says he is 
contemplating both imports 
and Arsenal Cider, a local hard 
cider made in Lawrenceville. 
Whichever label is chosen, 
Handler is sure it will match 
harmoniously with the existing fare.
The changes to Crepes 
Parisiennes menu come in a 
time of changes for the Craig 
Street corridor. Over the summer, the Panther Hollow Inn 
at 4611 Forbes Ave. closed its 
doors for the last time, and 
will be replaced in the coming 
months with a Chipotle Mexican Grill. 
The university is also investing in Craig Street; last 
year the PNC Bank on the 
corner of Forbes Avenue and 
S. Craig Street was replaced 
by the universitys Integrated 
Innovation Institute. 
The Carnegie Mellon community seems to be looking forward to the coming 
developments at the creperie. I think its interesting, 
sophomore computer science and mathematics major 
Aaron Friedlander said. The 
thought of crepes and alcohol 
could be fun. 
Even Cage Schmidt, who 
often works at the Creperie in 
the Jared L. Cohon University 
Center, a competitor to Crepes 
Parisiennes, is excited for the 
coming changes. Schmidt said, 
I de?nitely want to go down 
there. Ill take my girlfriend  
she cant drink but I will.
Yeongwoo Hwang/Junior Photographer
Crepes Parisiennes, a creperie at 207 S. Craig St., recently applied for a liquor license so that it can offer hard cider alongside their crepes. 
NSF grants CMU $5.6M 
See HOUSING, A3
BRIAN TRIMBOLI 
News Editor
The National Science 
Foundation (NSF) announced recently that it 
is giving Carnegie Mellon 
$5.6 million in grant money 
through the CyberCorps 
Scholarship for Service 
(SFS). The SFS is a federal 
program that provides fulltuition scholarships for students who show promise 
in careers strengthening 
the nations cybersecurity 
infrastructure.
This is not the ?rst time 
that the NSF has given 
money to Carnegie Mellon 
to fund cybersecurity education  the SFS program 
has been active at the university for over 10 years, 
handing out a total of over 
$21.6 million in awards and 
scholarships. This years 
grant, however, is the largest award to date, according 
to Dena Haritos Tsamitis, 
director of the College of 
Engineerings Information 
Networking Institute (INI), 
in a university news release.
See GRANT, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  September 15, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cations
The article Dimensionality reduction helps neuroscience studies published in last weeks issue of The Tartan incorrectly stated that Byron M. Yu is an assistant 
professor of electrical and computer engineering and 
that his article was published in Nature; Yu is actually 
an assistant professor of electrical computer engineering and biomedical engineering and his article was 
published in Nature Neuroscience. 
The article Chipotle coming soon to Forbes incorrectly stated that Winthorpe Valentine LP bought the 
Panther Hollow Inn (PHI) from former owner Eugene 
DePasquale; DePasquale, although he did own PHI, did 
not own the building and did not participate in its sale. 
NEWS IN BRIEFHackCMU takes over Gates Center
WEATHER
Disorderly Conduct
Sept. 6, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student was placed in Allegheny 
County Jail after ignoring police orders to depart from a 
party at the Margaret Morrison Apartments. In addition 
to being intoxicated, the student spoke belligerently to the 
police. The student was arrested for disorderly conduct 
and public drunkenness.
Underage Drinking
Sept. 6, 2014
A security of?cer issued a 
citation for underage drinking to a Carnegie Mellon student resting on the bleachers 
in Gesling Stadium. The student was also given medical 
treatment.
Bicycle Theft
Sept. 6, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported that his bicycle was 
stolen between 8:30 p.m. on 
Sept. 5 and 1:15 a.m. on Sept. 
6, when the student came 
to retrieve it. According to 
the student, the bicycle was 
chained to a bike rack in the 
front entrance of Skibo Gymnasium with a cable lock. This 
investigation is ongoing.
Alcohol Amnesty
Sept. 7, 2014
University Police and CMU 
EMS arrived at Roselawn 
Terrace after a call reporting 
overly intoxicated students. 
A female student was given 
medical treatment, and no citations were issued.
Institutional Vandalism
Sept. 8, 2014
Staff at the university presidents of?ce called University 
Police in response to vandalism on the presidents parking 
sign in Warner Halls parking 
lot. The culprit committed this 
act at an unknown time and 
has not been identi?ed yet.
Strong Arm Robbery
Sept. 8, 2014
The Pittsburgh Bureau of 
Police is conducting an investigation regarding a Carnegie Mellon student who was 
physically assaulted on the 
intersection of N. Craig Street 
and Centre Avenue by a black 
male wearing a white t-shirt 
and black hooded sweatshirt. 
The victims face was beaten, 
and his backpack was stolen.
Bicycle Theft
Sept. 10, 2014
A Carnegie Mellon student 
reported his bicycle stolen after he left it unsecured on the 
fourth ?oor of the Hillman 
Center. The student left his 
Trek bicycle on a bike rack at 
2 p.m. and discovered that it 
was missing at 3:54 p.m.
Bicycle Theft
Sept. 10, 2014
University Police are investigating the robbery of a specialized mountain bike. The 
bike, which was locked by a 
cable to a bike rack near the 
back fence outside of Shady 
Oak Apartments, was found 
stolen between 210:30 a.m.
Currency, Parking Placard 
Theft
Sept. 10, 2014
University Police responded to the theft of a Carnegie 
Mellon parking placard and a 
roll of quarters worth $5 from 
an unattended and unlocked 
vehicle. The victim stated 
that his car was parked in the 
driveway of Morewood Gardens at 1 p.m. for 20 minutes.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
This week in Tianjin, 
China, the World Economic 
Forums Summer Davos will 
host a Data Science in Action session, featuring four 
Carnegie Mellon faculty 
members. Carnegie Mellon 
began working with the 
World Economic Forum in 
2010, when the university 
joined the Global University Leaders Forum (GULF). 
GULF brings together 25 international universities to 
create an open dialogue on 
affairs of higher education, 
research, and global policy. 
15 Carnegie Mellon faculty 
members have presented at 
GULF meetings since 2010.
University President Subra Suresh will introduce the 
session, which explores how 
to evaluate and use large 
amounts of data from diverse 
?elds. Professor of psychology Marlene Behrmanns 
discussion on data looks into 
how autism can be better 
predicted by analyzing brain 
signal pathways in autistic 
individuals. In the ?eld of 
engineering, James H. Garrett Jr., dean of the College 
of Engineering and Thomas 
Lord, professor of civil and 
environmental engineering, 
will explore the enormous 
cost-cutting potential of sensors collecting water in sewer 
pipes, buildings, and bridges. 
These sensors detect the potential for damage before it 
occurs.
Marsha Lovett, a professor of psychology at Carnegie Mellon, will present 
her research on data from 
student use of online learning software. This research 
could be used to individualize users experiences, thereby strengthening the educational experience online. 
Herbert A. Simon Professor 
of computer science Manuela Velosos presentation examines autonomous robots 
strengths in collecting and 
analyzing real-time data and 
using the data to think and 
act independently.
Also attending the forum 
are three Carnegie Mellon scientists nominated as 
40 under 40 young scientists, who will be commenting on the sessions 
with their knowledge of 
cutting-edge scienti?c research. President Suresh will 
also participate in the Optimizing Education Through 
Technology session.
Carnegie Mellon presents at World Economic Forums Summer Davos
CMU student crowned Miss Pennsylvania
Junior musical theater 
major Amanda Smith was 
crowned Miss Pennsylvania 
2014 at the 2014 Miss Pennsylvania USA competition. 
Smith will go on to compete 
at the Miss America Pageant 
in Atlantic City on Sunday, 
Sept. 14. This was the ?rst 
time Smith competed in 
the Miss Pennsylvania competition, where she sang a 
rendition of Music of the 
Night from the musical The 
Phantom of the Opera.
Smith will be taking a 
year of absence from Carnegie Mellon as she attends 
to her duties as Miss Pennsylvania, including community service, scholarship, 
and personal appearances. 
In an interview with The 
Piper, Smith described her 
pageant platform as Fitness and Nutrition: The 
Key to Healthy Living. She 
hopes to promote a healthy 
and affordable lifestyle of 
?tness and nutrition accessible to all Americans. 
Smith is proud to be a part 
of a pageant organization 
with similarly accomplished, 
ambitious young women, according to The Piper.
At Carnegie Mellon, 
Smith studies acting, voice, 
ballet, jazz, and tap. She 
credits the School of Drama 
with helping her poise, con?dence, and social ?nesse. 
After graduation, Smith envisions herself continuing to 
promote health and nutrition, as well as pursuing a 
career onstage in New York 
City or in ?lm and television 
in Los Angeles.
Ex Of?cio report: Kevin MonahanSpecial Allocation: Aerial Arts Club
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
76 / 54
SATURDAY
High / Low
81 / 60
SUNDAY
High / Low
78 / 59
TUESDAY
High / Low
68 / 48
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
71 / 46
THURSDAY
High / Low
73 / 49
Associate Dean of Student 
Affairs for the Career and 
Professional Development 
Center Kevin Monahan spoke 
at Thursdays Senate meeting 
to prepare students for the 
upcoming Business Opportunities Conference (BOC) 
and Technical Opportunities 
Conference (TOC). Monahan 
spoke about the relocation of 
the Career and Professional 
Development Center (CPDC) 
to West Wing. According to 
Monahan, the center has 
more than double the number of interview rooms it had 
before, including several that 
remained in the basement of 
the Jared L. Cohon University 
Center, the Centers former 
location.
Monahan also spoke about 
the CPDCs increased effort to 
work with students in the Dietrich College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences and the 
College of Fine Arts, who typically receive less attention at 
the TOC and BOC.
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Compiled by
CHELSEA DICKSON
Senate voted to allocate $1,936 
to the newly-formed Aerial Arts 
Club. The club, which was recognized as a campus organization 
at the end of the spring semester, 
requested funds from Senate to 
buy an aerial rig. A representative 
from the club said that the rig is a 
one-time purchase and will allow 
the club to practice both indoors 
and outdoors.
Sergeant At Arms Elections
Junior mechanical engineering major Paul Kioko was 
elected to the position of Senate Sergeant at Arms. Kioko, 
who ran for Student Body 
Vice President for Finance 
last semester, said that he 
was interested in participating in student government 
since his ?rst year at Carnegie 
Mellon and was glad to have 
the chance to participate in 
Senate. The Sergeant at Arms 
performs administrative duties for Senate, including the 
transportation of the Senate 
tablecloth and gavel to meetings and the ordering of food 
for meetings.
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
On Friday and Saturday the Association for Computing Machinery at Carnegie Mellon (acm@cmu) hosted HackCMU, in which students had 24 
hours to put together a functioning program. acm@cmu also organizes hack+, a semester-long hackathon that gives students of all coding levels 
Compiled by
DORSA MASSIHPOUR
Yeongwoo Hwang/Junior Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

September 15, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Carnegie Mellon. 
The aspiration for Clyde 
House is that half the residents will be from the Pittsburgh campus and the other 
half of the residents will be exchange students in Pittsburgh 
for the semester, Camerlengo 
said via email. With robust 
discussions and activities in 
the community and guests 
who will share a global perspective, its hoped that students ?nd this to be a learning 
environment that they enjoy 
[and] feel connected to.
A contributing in?uence 
to the houses establishment 
this semester was the approximately 20 students from Carnegie Mellons Qatar campus 
who study in Pittsburgh each 
semester, according to Camerlengo. The house was 
intended to be able to provide an optimal living experience for exchange students, 
she said.
There are currently exchange students from several 
countries, including Qatar, 
living in Clyde House this 
semester.
The house requires students to fill out an application to live in the building, 
similar to applications for 
such housing facilities as 
Henderson Wellness House 
and the CMU Sustainability 
House. 
HOUSING, from A1Clyde House focuses on global outreach
Braden Kelner/Editor-in-Chief
Clyde House, which aims to foster a global community, includes a parlor on the ?rst ?oor.   
Braden Kelner/Editor-in-Chief
Clyde House includes several other common areas, including one on the third ?oor. 
NSF provides grant for cybersecurity
GRANT, from A1
Students who are eligible for the SFS program 
are U.S. citizens who have 
been accepted into Carnegie 
Mellons graduate programs 
in information security or 
information security policy 
at the Heinz College or College of Engineering. The SFS 
program awards students 
full-tuition scholarships and 
sometimes stipends; students 
who receive scholarships 
through the program commit 
to a summer internship with 
a participating federal agency 
and one year of federal employment for every year they 
spend earning their degree.
Over the course of the 
programs history at Carnegie Mellon, over 157 graduates have gone on to work for 
the Department of Defense, 
Department of Justice, and 
other federal departments.
Allison Boos, a 2014 
graduate of the program, is 
working as an IT specialist in 
the Criminal Division of the 
Department of Justice. Boos 
studied information security 
at the INI through the SFS 
program and spent a summer 
interning at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
as part of the National Incident Response Team.
The experience of being 
an SFS student not only provided me with the education 
and skills inherent in a Carnegie Mellon education but 
also surrounded me with others with similar interests and 
goals, establishing a network 
that is both personally and 
professionally bene?cial, 
Boos said in a university news 
release.
The INI is a graduate 
school with degree programs 
in information networking; 
information security; and information technology mobility, information security, and 
software management. Since 
Tsamitis began directing the 
INI in 2004, it has earned the 
Center of Academic Excellence (CAE) in information 
assurance/cyber defense education, information assurance/cyber defense research, 
and cyber operations. The 
CAE is a federal recognition 
established in the wake of 
President Obamas National 
Initiative for Cybersecurity 
Education (NICE) and overseen by the National Security 
Agency.
Our graduates in information security are sought 
after by employers and our 
research activities at CyLab 
are discussed by leaders and 
innovators in the areas of 
threat analysis, software security, cryptography, privacy, 
risk management and other 
areas, said James H. Garrett Jr., dean of the College of 
Engineering and the Thomas 
Lord Professor of Civil and 
Environmental Engineering, in a university news release. The SFS scholarship 
funds and new collaborative 
research opportunities are 
much appreciated by and a 
great ?t for our faculty and 
students.
The university is a wellknown leader in cybersecurity research. In 2000, thencomputer science graduate 
student Luis von Ahn worked 
with his adviser, Manuel 
Blum, to create CAPTCHA, 
an acronym for Completely 
Automated Public Turing 
Test To Tell Computers and 
Humans Apart. CAPTCHA is 
used by hundreds of websites 
to tell the difference between 
a robot and a human in front 
of a computer.
Clyde House fast facts28 beds
$8,490       a year
1. Clyde House has a Community Advisor (CA) who is responsible for Clyde 
House, Neville Apartments, and Shady 
Oak Apartments. The CA lives in a single 
in Clyde House. 
2. Clyde House includes a porch, 
kitchen, ?rst ?oor parlor, balcony, second 
and third ?oor common areas, and a 
study room. 
$4,045 a semester 
 + $400 reservation fee
=

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  September 15, 2014
SCITECH BRIEFS
Google to make its own quantum processors
Google recently announced 
its plan to make quantum 
processors using superconductors. Google is already involved in quantum computer 
research through the Quantum Arti?cial Intelligence Lab, 
whose members now run their 
experiments on a D-Wave 
Two device, the successor of 
D-Wave One and the worlds 
only commercially available 
quantum computer. 
Compared to traditional 
computers, quantum computers are believed to be helpful 
for optimization problems. In 
digital computers, data are encoded into binary digits (bits), 
which has two de?nite states 
(0 and 1), whereas quantum 
computation uses qubits that 
can be in superpositions of 
states. However, quantum 
computers havent yet proven 
to be faster than classical computers, partly because they are 
currently only in prototype 
stages. Thus, Google is still 
working with the lab researchers, including scientists from 
NASA and universities, to seek 
further improvement.
Source: Popular Science
Scientists say ozone layer is on way to recovery
UN scientists claim that 
Earths protective but fragile 
ozone layer is gradually recovering, partly due to the reduction of chloro?uorocarbon 
(CFC) use and international 
collaborations to wean away 
from CFCs. Since 1974, there 
have been warnings about 
ozone depletion, which can 
be devastating because of the 
ozones ability to shield damaging ultraviolet (UV) light 
from the sun. Excessive exposure to UV may lead to skin 
cancer. Interestingly, carbon 
dioxide, commonly known 
as a major greenhouse gas, 
is believed to cool the upper 
stratosphere, and the cooled 
air increases the amount of 
ozone. While this news is encouraging, scientists still warn 
that the ozone layer is far from 
being healed. 
The long-lasting, ozoneeating chemicals are still damaging the ozone levels while 
it is recovering. According to 
NASA scientist Paul A. Newman, the ozone layer is still approximately 6 percent thinner 
than it was in 1980. 
Source: MSN News
NASA to give International Space Station 3-D printer
According to a recent plan, 
NASA will send a 3-D printer 
to the International Space 
Station (ISS), which, according to some engineers and researchers at NASA, is a design 
revolution. 
Traditionally, astronauts 
had to bring tools and parts 
in order to replace broken 
parts; but now with this 3-D 
printer, if you have 300 different things that could break 
on your spacecraft, you may 
not need to carry replacement 
parts for all 300 of them, said 
Dwayne Day, a senior program of?cer at the National 
Research Council. Having a 
3-D printer may even allow astronauts to invent useful new 
tools while in space.
The 3-D printer was made 
to be resistant to drastic temperature change. However, the 
fact that heat ?ows differently 
in microgravity could mean 
that some parts of the plastic 
will become too hot or too cool 
for the printing to work properly. The printer was designed 
by Made In Space, a Silicon 
Valley venture.
Source: Scienti?c American
Research reveals giant dinosaur lived in the water
Scienti?c detective work 
spanning 100 years and three 
continents has revealed the 
?rst swimming dinosaur: 
Spinosaurus aegyptiacus, an 
African monster that breaks 
the mold for how a dinosaur 
predator looked and behaved 
 it is even nine feet longer 
than the Tyrannosaurus rex 
(T. rex). 
Spinosaurus is known for 
its water-adapting lifestyle, 
and it was the only known quadrupedal dinosaur predator, 
compared to its two-legged 
counterparts, like T.rex.
Most of the information 
about Spinosaurus was lost 
during World War II, when 
fossils discovered earlier were 
destroyed in Germany. 
Recently, some partial 
skeletons were again found 
in Morroco, and an accurate 
reconstruction of Spinosaurus ?nally evolved. Spinosaurus had powerful jaws 
and teeth. It probably had 
outsized arms, with ?ashing 
scythe-like claws, said Paul 
Sereno, one of the scientists 
who reported the ?nd. 
Source: USA Today
Mystery of missing lithium extends beyond Milky Way
It is universally believed 
that within three minutes of 
the Big Bang, the universe was 
created with mostly hydrogen 
and helium, with a certain 
amount of lithium (the ?rst 
three elements in the periodic 
table). While the presence of 
the ?rst two in our universe 
has been long con?rmed, there 
seems to be only about onethird as much lithium in the 
old stars as there should be. 
For many years this problem 
troubled scientists, causing 
them to rethink whether the 
models of the early universe 
are accurate. Recently, it has 
been con?rmed that this problem is not unique to the Milky 
Way. Astronomers turned the 
Very Large Telescope in Chile 
toward Messier 54 (M54), a 
distant start cluster that is part 
of a tiny galaxy. According to 
the observations published on 
Sept. 9, the problem of lithium 
is not just limited to the scope 
of the Milky Way, but some external galaxies as well. Thus, 
where the lithium goes remains a problem for current 
astronomy.
Source: ScienceNews
Apple smartwatch is Apples most personal device
Though not the ?rst technology company making 
smartwatches and wearable 
technology, Apple unveiled 
its long-anticipated wearable 
smartwatch on Sept. 9. Apple 
CEO Tim Cook introduced the 
device, which is much like a 
wearable iPhone, but smaller. 
Cook hailed it as one of the 
most personal devices Apple 
has ever created: The Apple 
Watch can serve as a drawing pad, pulse monitor, music 
player, and an email receiver, 
among other things, that is 
always only an arms length 
away.
Instead of simply shrinking the iPhone screen, Cook 
claimed that Apple designed 
a new interface for the smartwatch, using what it calls a 
digital crown, or a knob on the 
side of the watch. 
Apple is also working closely with app developers to increase the functionality of its 
product with new uses.
Source: Apple
COMPILED BY
Shaojie Bai
The Internet of Things transforms our relation with world
ABHINAV GAUTAM
Junior Staffwriter
Quick: How many of the 
things you interact with daily 
are connected to the Internet? 
Probably a smartphone and 
maybe a smart watch or an activity monitor wristband. 
How about in your home? 
A computer, TV, game console, or even a coffee maker 
that can download different 
recipes for your coffee in the 
morning.
Chad Jones, an entrepreneur, an angel investor, and an 
adviser to multiple startups, 
gave a human-computer interaction seminar lecture last 
Wednesday in Newell-Simon 
Hall 1305, titled Transforming Human Interaction with 
our World Through the Internet of Things. 
In the lecture, he addressed the transformation 
of how we discover, sense, 
and interact with the physical 
world through the Internet of 
Things, the idea that we are 
moving toward a world where 
all physical objects will run 
software that is connected to 
the Internet.
Jones opened his lecture by 
calling the Internet of Things 
the next great paradigm shift 
not only in technology, but 
mankind as well. He summarized how the evolution of 
the Internet occurred. Before 
2000, about 1.8 billion computers were connected with 
each other. Then, in the mid 
2000s, over 10 billion devices 
were connected to the Internet, mainly due to the emergence of mobile devices. 
But the next evolution is 
already happening, where everything is connecting to the 
Internet, with an estimate of 1 
trillion connections to the Internet by 2030. 
This growth of Internetconnected devices has led to 
the Internet of Things, the 
concept that any device with 
an On/Off switch connects to 
the Internet directly, or indirectly through another device.
Jones said that we are already seeing examples of this 
evolution in different areas, 
and opportunities are everywhere. It is not a question of 
where [we] can apply this, 
[but] a question [of] where 
we cannot, Jones said. He 
showed examples of where 
these devices already exist, from a smart thermostat 
like Nest in the home that 
knows when you are home 
and adjusts the temperature 
automatically based on your 
preferences, to things like a 
basketball with a motion sensor that can tell how good your 
dribble is.
He also shared an example 
of an everyday object that is all 
over the world. There are over 
1 billion street lamps in the 
world that today only light up 
our streets at night. But Jones 
stated that a street lamp can 
become a platform and provide a lot more than just light. 
The lamp can serve as a Wi-Fi 
hotspot, provide announcements, and serve as digital signage that can advertise nearby 
events or provide directions.
The street lamp is just one 
of many ways we can make 
cities smarter where devices 
connected to the Internet can 
provide useful information 
to everyone. For example, 
Internet-connected parking 
meters can help drivers ?nd 
the closest available parking 
lot. Underground water pipes 
could alert the city if there 
are any stresses in the system 
and prevent a possible leakage 
from shutting down parts of 
the city.
So what has led to this 
evolution and why now? 
Jones said that this evolution 
has been the result of trends 
in technology and business. 
Electronics such as computer 
chips, sensors, and batteries 
are getting smaller and smaller, and can be placed in smaller devices. More devices have 
sensors and are able to share 
their data with other devices 
through cloud computing. 
It is much cheaper to produce the electronics in these 
devices and the devices themselves, thus allowing them 
to become smarter. Jones 
stated that though sensors in 
devices and electronics have 
existed for decades, its the 
Internet that has tied everything together. Having the 
ability to share the data generated by the sensors in devices 
is what makes them smart 
and creates the Internet of 
Things.
A good example of how 
the Internet of Things can be 
useful is a problem that a lot 
of people face during winter 
storms. Jones shared that, in 
his hometown of Boston, two 
days before a major winter 
storm hits, people using oil 
tanks to warm their houses 
call oil companies to ?ll their 
tanks, which leads to an increased demand for technicians to go to each house and 
?ll up the tanks, even if the 
tanks were already 90 percent 
?lled. These oil tanks already 
have sensors to determine 
how much the tank is ?lled. 
However, these tanks can now 
be connected to the Internet and have the potential to 
share the amount of oil left in 
the tank and how long it takes 
for the whole tank to be used 
up, which would allow the oil 
company to know which houses need the oil ?rst.
Having connected smart 
devices would improve a lot 
of aspects of life, from simple 
things like getting directions 
from a street lamp to letting 
an oil company know when 
to ?ll up an oil tank. Though 
useful, the Internet of Things 
also brings concern about the 
privacy of the data generated 
by these devices and how they 
are shared. Jones said there 
is a lot of opt-in where the 
user is asked to have their data 
shared. But he added that it is 
far scarier where the government comes in, hijacks [our 
data], and uses it to monitor 
us. 
He also added that businesses have to be more careful 
in how devices are created. He 
shared an example of how a 
baby monitor was hacked and 
used to wake up a 10-month 
old baby by yelling Wake up. 
The hacker was able to get 
that baby monitors information from Shodan, a search 
engine that indexes publicly 
accessible Internet-connected 
devices.
Having access to already 
available data from our world 
gives us more context and provides more valuable information, which transforms how 
we as humans discover and 
interact in the world.
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Entrepreneur Chad Jones presented a human-computer interaction seminar last Wednesday about the Internet of Things.

---------------------------------------------------

September 15, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
PUGWASH COLUMNMars trip could be one-way
KATHRYN MCKEOUGH
Special to The Tartan
Elon Musk, chief executive 
of?cer of SpaceX, believes he 
can land humans on Mars by 
2026. Mars One, a nonpro?t 
organization, wants to begin 
establishing a human colony 
on Mars in 2024. But dont 
start planning your vacation to Mars just yet. Despite 
SpaceXs goal to have reusable rockets, this feat has not 
yet been proven outside of 
tests. Meanwhile, the Mars 
One mission plans on having 
the colonys members live 
their lives out on Mars. Now 
that life on Mars appears to 
be feasible within the coming 
decades, what are the consequences of sending people 
on a journey that might be 
one-way?
A manned mission to Mars 
has the potential to be extremely bene?cial to the progress of science; it would be a 
litmus test to see how well 
technology can allow humans 
to live in harsh conditions and 
in extreme isolation, far from 
any immediate help. Unfortunately, we cannot rely on 
Earth to host humanity forever. Currently, human behavior is forcing Earth into a 
volatile state. There is also the 
chance that a meteor or other 
extraterrestrial disaster could 
destroy the planet. A manned 
mission to Mars could lead 
the way to potential colonization on a more massive scale 
 Mars could be the new 
home for humans.
However, the exploration 
and experimentation comes 
with a cost, particularly when 
travelers to Mars are not able 
to return. Pugwash raised the 
concern during its weekly 
meeting that sending humans 
to Mars could be unethical. 
For one, scientists and engineers do not know what to expect. Landing and setting up 
a successful, inhabitable living place on Mars is no small 
feat, and there is the possibility that a trip to Mars could 
lead to immediate death. One 
Pugwash member even said 
that choosing to live on Mars 
could be similar to choosing 
imminent death, almost like 
euthanasia.
Another concern is whether or not humans should alter the ecosystem on Mars. 
On Earth, we try to conserve 
many natural phenomena 
through the National Park 
Service. We must consider 
that our occupation of Mars 
would alter or destroy natural 
formations on Mars. We must 
weigh the importance of preserving nature when planning 
the missions to Mars.
In the end, a trip to Mars 
will always be a persons 
choice. Yet, Pugwash was concerned about whether or not 
humans are informed enough 
to make that decision. It is dif?cult to create a completely 
informative and fair consent 
form. Giving people a choice 
could lead to corruption including misunderstandings, 
misinformation, and the 
potential of forced consent. 
Some Pugwash members 
were of the mindset that it 
would be wrong to deprive 
a person of travel to Mars if 
they had the capability of doing so and would otherwise 
be a prisoner on Earth. Finally, the group considered the 
possibility of travelers having 
Martian-born children. Do we 
subject these children to grow 
up in such a hazardous atmosphere? Although children 
are born and raised in poor 
conditions on Earth without 
choice, a naturally uninhabitable planet adds a new layer 
to the discussion.
In 1020 years, it is likely 
that the technology to send 
humans to Mars will exist. 
Certain people will be asked 
to make the decision if they 
would like to inhabit another 
planet. Living on Mars has its 
bene?ts in terms of scienti?c 
progress, but we must consider if these unknown living 
conditions are ones we want 
to subject humans to.
Student Pugwash is a non-advocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science. This article is a 
summary of last weeks dicussion on one-way trips to Mars.
HOW THINGS WORKNFC can be active or passive
ADITHYA VENKATESAN
Junior Staffwriter
Apples Sept. 9 announcement event has come to a 
close, and the many features 
of the iPhone 6, iPhone 6 Plus, 
and Apple Watch are starting 
to sink in. Although many of 
the features, such as a new A8 
chip and the high resolution 
of the new phones screens, 
have caused excitement, the 
inclusion of near ?eld communication (NFC) into the 
next generation devices has 
the world abuzz. 
With Apples stamp of approval, many companies are 
starting to look at greater investments into the payment 
possibilities NFC holds.
So what exactly is near 
?eld communication? As you 
can probably guess, it involves 
interactions between devices 
that are close to each other. 
Closeness usually means a 
few centimeters away from 
another device, although 
some NFC chips necessitate 
contact to transfer or receive 
information.
There are two different 
types of NFC: active and passive. Active NFC, which is currently used on many Android 
devices, as well as the new 
Apple devices, can send and 
receive data. One major use 
of NFC is storing and transferring contact or credit card 
information. With apps such 
as Google Wallet on Android 
phones, you can simply tap 
your device to pay at stores.
Passive NFC, on the other 
hand, can only send data. 
However, passive NFC provides an extra bene?t: The 
passive devices can run 
without power. You can ?nd 
passive NFC on all sorts of 
devices that need to communicate with others. For example, our student ID cards 
use NFC technology. If you 
tap your card on the bus, your 
card is passively transferring 
information through NFC to 
the bus systems active card 
reader, which allows the bus 
system to realize that you are 
a Carnegie Mellon student 
and charge the university for 
your trip. Billboards and signs 
can also use NFC. You can 
usually tap one of these with 
a phone to get more information about the topic discussed 
on the board.
NFC has many uses, but 
how does it work? According 
to the blog Android Authority, 
NFC is just another wireless 
transmission standard. But 
unlike Bluetooth or Wi-Fi, it is 
able to send information passively. It does this by using a 
process called electromagnetic induction. When an active 
NFC component comes near a 
passive component, the active 
components electromagnetic 
?eld causes small currents to 
?ow through the passive part. 
The generated power allows 
the passive NFC to send data 
whenever the active part is 
nearby. Close proximities allow for a stronger electromagnetic ?eld to affect the NFC, 
which is why most devices 
need to be so close to each 
other to transfer valuable 
information.
NFC has its own transmission frequency of 13.56 
MHz. It also has a speed of 
anywhere from 100 to 450 
kilobits per second. Although 
this means that you cant 
transfer a full HD movie in a 
feasible amount of time, it is 
fast enough to transfer small 
amounts of data, such as 
contacts. 
The NFC standard has 
three different modes that it 
uses to operate: peer-to-peer, 
read/write, and card emulation. Peer-to-peer allows for 
two active tags to write to 
each other, whereas read/
write is directed toward one 
device. Card emulation, on 
the other hand, allows a device to function like a passive device, which is how 
your phone can function as a 
wallet.
Although people argue for 
other data transfer methods, 
NFC provides near-instantaneous connection speeds and 
allows devices to transmit 
data passively. In addition, 
new methods such as Android 
Beam use NFC for faster transfer times. As NFC becomes 
more popular, we may even 
see new uses for it.
Maegha Singh/Staff Artist
CLAIRE GIANAKAS
Staffwriter
Learning new skills and acquiring knowledge is essential 
to the growth and development of modern society, but 
there is still uncertainty regarding the biological mechanisms behind this occurrence. 
Recent ?ndings by researchers at the joint Carnegie Mellon and University 
of Pittsburgh Center for the 
Neural Basis of Cognition 
(CNBC) suggest that it is easier to learn new skills if people 
can associate them with skills 
they already have.
The researchers include 
Carnegie Mellons Byron 
Yu, an assistant professor of 
electrical and computer engineering and biomedical 
engineering; Steven Chase, 
an assistant professor of biomedical engineering with 
a courtesy appointment in 
electrical and computer engineering at Carnegie Mellon and researcher at the 
CNBC; as well as University 
of Pittsburgh researcher Patrick Sadtler, a bioengineering 
Ph.D. candidate. 
The team is also comprised 
of Carnegie Mellons Matthew 
Golub, Stanford Universitys 
Stephen Ryu, and University 
of Pittsburghs Aaron Batista, 
Elizabeth Tyler-Kabara, and 
Kristin Quick.
The team used brain computer interfaces (BCIs) to 
translate neural activity into 
something more easily de?ned, Chase explained.
BCIs take neural activity 
and map it directly to something else. Its often a robotic 
arm, but in this case it was a 
computer cursor, Chase said. 
Animal subjects were trained 
to move a computer cursor to 
targets on a screen while the 
researchers monitored their 
motor cortex, the section of 
the brain responsible for voluntary movements.
The movement of the cursor to the target required the 
subjects to produce speci?c 
patterns of neural activity. If 
the subjects were able to ef?-
ciently move the cursor, it signaled that they had produced 
the correct neural activity 
pattern.
We designed mapping 
between neuron activity and 
cursor movement that would 
either take existing patterns 
in neural activity and use 
them in new ways to drive the 
cursor in different directions 
or generate new patterns of 
neural activity that had never been used before, Chase 
said. The whole goal of the 
experiment was to try to make 
a prediction about what sorts 
of things are learnable and 
what sorts of things are not.
The research showed that 
certain neural activity patterns were easier than others 
for subjects to learn. Subjects 
generally had an easier time 
learning patterns that were 
comprised of pre-existing 
patterns. Patterns consisting 
of totally new patterns were 
much harder for subjects to 
learn.
You can change existing 
patterns and map them to 
cursor movement, explained 
Chase. What you cant do is 
generate new patterns  or 
at least you cant do it very 
quickly.
The possible applications 
of this research are extensive, 
including improved motor 
learning rehabilitation and 
more ef?cient, functional 
BCIs. Chase explained that 
motor learning is a topic that 
necessitates further study.
Motor learning is one of 
those big open questions in 
neuroscience research; we really dont understand what it 
is and how it occurs, Chase 
said. 
We normally dont think 
about motor control very 
much because were extremely good at it, but when it goes 
wrong its devastating.
Spinal cord injury, stroke, 
and Parkinsons disease are 
all widespread af?ictions associated with faulty motor 
control. Stroke is an instance 
where we hope that we will 
be able to learn to overcome 
whatever de?cits there are. 
Its a question of learning, and 
if we knew the right way to 
derive the learning, we could 
help people recover from 
strokes better, Chase said.
He further commented on 
the ability of interdisciplinary collaboration to prompt 
innovation. This was a true 
collaborative project that 
brought together techniques 
from a bunch of different 
?elds, including neurobiology, engineering, and machine 
learning, Chase said. 
The end goal of all of 
this research is to really understand motor learning at a 
fundamental level and take 
that information to perform 
stroke rehabilitation more 
effectively and design better BCIs for those who cant 
communicate.
The research was funded 
by the National Institutes of 
Health, the National Science 
Foundation, and the Burroughs Wellcome Fund. The 
paper was published in the 
Aug. 28 issue of Nature.
Skills are easier to learn if associated to skills we have
Brooke Kuei/SciTech Editor

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN *
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER *
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER *
Contributing Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
SWATHI ANAND
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
JASON CHEN
Asst. Photo Editor
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Asst. Layout Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
ALVIN MATTHEWS
Asst. News Editor
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Christopher Benson, Amelia Britton, Gordon 
Estes, Rin Fair, Emily Giedzinski, Yeongwoo 
Hwang, Mackenzie Nicholson, Evelyn Pandos, 
Anisha Padwekar, Stephanie Stern, Azmal 
Thahireen, Emily Tsui, Yiyi Zhao
LAYOUT
Udaya Malik, Yong Gun Choe
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
The use of hydraulic fracturing to 
extract natural gas from the Marcellus Shale deposit in Western Pennsylvania has proven to be an extremely 
controversial issue. This controversy 
is poised to intensify with the results 
of a Yale University study concluding 
that residents living close to Marcellus Shale drilling wells in Washington County, Pa. have more health 
problems than those living farther 
away.
Speci?cally, the study, conducted 
in 2012, found that out of 492 people 
living within half a mile of a shale 
gas site, 39 percent reported upper 
respiratory symptoms, as opposed 
to 18 percent living more than a mile 
away. It should be noted that this 
study only establishes correlation 
between geographic location and 
health outcomes, and does not provide any insight into direct causes of 
these health problems. 
Regardless, advocacy groups 
against hydraulic fracturing for natural gas in Western Pennsylvania will 
likely use this evidence in their case 
against gas and drilling companies, 
adding further fuel to a continually 
?ery debate. While there is a debate 
surrounding the use of hydraulic 
fracking to obtain natural gas in the 
Marcellus Region, there is a need for 
academic studies to analyze the effects of this practice with as great a 
degree of certainty as possible. 
This recent Yale study only suggests a correlation between health 
outcomes and proximity to a fracking well, a relationship that could be 
attributed to socioeconomic status 
or other factors. Uncertainty such 
as this underscores the need for institutions such as Carnegie Mellon to 
conduct thorough academic analyses of such local issues as hydraulic 
fracturing. 
Particularly with the creation 
of the Wilton E. Scott Institute for 
Energy Innovation, the university 
should continue to focus on studying 
important energy and environmentally-related topics such as hydraulic 
fracturing and their public health 
impacts. 
As our university continues to 
expand, creating new institutes and 
building new buildings, we must also 
remember that academic research 
should be one of our foremost priorities and that local issues deserve our 
attention. 
PA environmental issues need CMU attention
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  September 15, 2014
With the walls of the Sherman 
and Joyce Bowie Scott Hall going 
up and continuous discussion of the 
soon-to-be Tepper Quadrangle, it is 
not hard to see that Carnegie Mellon 
is fast-growing and changing from 
the local tech school it started as 114 
years ago. In that time, we have become a world-class institution with 
many achievements in the arts, sciences, and engineering disciplines. 
But as we grow with our recent 
achievements, we need to remember 
that the quantity of buildings, or centers, or initiatives that we have does 
not make us a quality institution. 
The words global, innovation, 
and initiative seem to have entered 
Carnegie Mellons communications 
and stuck. It is a surprise when a 
campus-wide email does not contain one, if not all, of these favorite 
Carnegie terms. Being innovative is 
like having power, but as Margret 
Thatcher once said, If you have to 
tell people you are, you arent. This 
campus is, of course, full of brilliant 
people with fascinating ideas and 
amazing achievements. But if we 
keep shouting at the world about 
how innovative we are then all we 
are bound to receive is a global eye 
roll. 
Instead of setting up new umbrella structures and vague initiatives, we should focus on breaking 
down the structures and letting the 
brilliant individuals of this campus 
shine. Their light will be far more impressive then any speech about our 
innovation could ever be.     
The growth of initiatives and 
schools is surely meant with the best 
intentions, but none of these things 
will make us rise in the eyes of our 
peer institutions. Part of what makes 
Carnegie Mellon great is our ability 
to conduct research within a small 
community. No doubt the school 
could use a few more students tuition payments, or another professors grant money, but as a community we must toe this line carefully. Part 
of our strength comes from being a 
small but mighty research community in which peoples paths can cross 
outside o f their home departments. 
As we move forward, we must 
remember the value of integrity and 
dignity in the way we present ourselves as an institution to the world. 
Our heart must remain in our work, 
and we must only modestly and accurately boast of our innovative 
initiatives when they truly deserve 
promotion.
CMU may make innovation a dead buzzword
Eunice Mok/Junior Artist
In a time in American history 
when homicide rates are at their 
lowest in 50 years, it seems inexplicable that anti-gun activism is multiplying at its current rate. For the 
past two weeks, the Kroger Company has been on the receiving end of 
a series of unprovoked attacks made 
by Moms Demand Action (MDA). 
The rapidly growing advocacy 
group against gun violence is currently engaged in an ad campaign 
against the supermarket franchises 
open carry rules in their stores. MDA 
 a still-adolescent organization  
is proactively persisting in its offensive toward policy change, having 
no grounds or context beyond the 
new American gun-conscious standard. The store in the spotlight is 
located in Cincinnati, only a 15-minute drive from Krogers corporate 
headquarters.
We are anti-gun violence, said 
Michelle Mueller, a regional representative from MDA, in a statement, 
and well do whatever it takes ....  
to create a safer environment. The 
organization, fully named Moms 
Demand Action for Gun Sense in 
America, was formed in December 
2012 in reaction to the Sandy Hook 
Elementary School shooting and 
has been bold in its efforts since its 
conception. 
Its most recent victories in the 
battle against in-store open carry 
include Target and Starbucks. Both 
are stores with no history of gun violence. Already, the group claims that 
100,000 people have signed its petition to prohibit open carry in Kroger 
supermarkets.
The in?ated ad campaign aimed 
at Kroger began on Aug. 18 and was 
revitalized on Sept. 4, now focused 
not only on stores located in states 
with laws permitting open carry, but 
nationwide. The unnecessary MDA 
ads have been displayed in newspapers and billboards throughout the 
Cincinnati area, displaying people 
carrying long guns next to people 
eating food or skateboarding with 
the caption One of Them Isnt Welcome at Kroger. Guess Which One. 
These ads reveal the super?ciality 
in MDAs grasp of the compromise 
in public safety caused by the open 
carrying of ?rearms.
Despite a wave of media in opposition to Kroger  including the 
hashtag #GroceriesNotGuns  few 
spokespeople from the company 
have commented on MDAs actions, 
except by referring to a previously 
released company statement, asserting that the safety of the customers 
and associates is possible while not 
infringing on the rights of citizens 
who choose to carry. We know 
that our customers are passionate 
on both sides of this issue and we 
trust them to be responsible in our 
stores, the statement reads.
Despite the lack of response from 
the company under ?re, MDA leaders continue to speak out and have 
deservedly started to land in hot 
water for it. The aforementioned 
MDA representative has stated that 
at least 16 shooting deaths have occurred at or surrounding Kroger 
locations; however, she has yet to 
provide any evidence backing this 
claim. 
The MDA also has no membership revenue, instead funding its 
political momentum with a $50 
million donation from former New 
York City mayor Michael Bloomberg. While sound in mission, the 
organization seems to lack effective 
leadership and policy, epitomized in 
the groups tendency to fudge attendance numbers in their support rallies since April.
Kroger is ?rm in its position of 
defending the right of its customers 
to carry guns in its stores. The push 
to limit ?rearms in public places, especially those serving families and 
children, is understandable in our 
current gun-reactionary society, 
but it may not be successful if spearheaded by an organization with 
leadership like MDAs. 
Though Moms Demand Action 
has a great track record for changing 
the open carry policy of companies 
with formidable national presences, 
Kroger may be justi?ed in refusing 
to compromise with a group that has 
yet to prove it deserves its growing 
social and political in?uence.
MDA oversteps bounds with its Kroger campaign
RUSSELL HOLBERT
Junior Staffwriter
Emily Giedzinski/Junior Artist
#WhyIStayed has been trending on 
Twitter for the past week as a unique 
and effective tool to subvert the usual 
conversation surrounding domestic 
violence. 
Ostensibly, #WhyIStayed is a response to the leaked video of former 
NFL star Ray Rice beating Janay Rice, 
his then-?ancee and current wife, in a 
hotel elevator, according to CNN. But 
the trend also engages with societys 
tendency of blaming the victim in discussions of domestic violence. This 
engagement is a vital step toward alleviating the intense shame often heaped 
upon victims of domestic violence.
When the video ?rst leaked, questions arose as to why Janay Rice did not 
choose to leave her partner, as opposed 
to why Ray Rice beat his partner in the 
?rst place. This is typical of domestic 
violence discussions. Rather than question the motives and behaviors of the 
abuser, people sometimes question 
why anyone would allow someone else 
to hit her. This choice pushes the shame 
of being abused away from the abuser 
and onto the victim. 
People who ask questions like Why 
didnt Janay leave Ray? do not understand the truly corrosive effects of domestic violence, or how much danger 
women who are abused by a partner 
are in. According to DomesticAbuseShelter.org, battering is the single 
largest cause of injury to women, and 
around 4,000 women in America die 
per year due to domestic violence. Approximately 75 percent of those women are killed when they try to leave an 
abusive relationship or after they had 
already left it. 
#WhyIStayed allows people who 
have suffered domestic abuse to discuss 
their experiences and subvert victimblaming. Beverly Gooden, who created 
the hashtag, shared some of her own 
heart-rending experiences, such as I 
stayed because I was halfway across 
the country, isolated from my friends 
and family. And there was no one to 
help me, and I tried to leave the house 
once after an abusive episode, and he 
blocked me. He slept in front of the 
door that entire night.
#WhyIStayed is an excellent and 
necessary way to pivot the conversation 
surrounding domestic violence away 
from victim-blaming. People who suffer from domestic violence need help 
and support, and this trend, through 
raising awareness, is an effective tool 
for providing that. 
#WhyIStayed empowers domestic abuse victims

---------------------------------------------------

September 15, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
This Thursday, Scotland will vote 
on whether to become an independent country. This is not the ?rst time 
such a referendum has occurred, but 
it seems to be the ?rst time that it has 
a chance of passing.
 Recent polls show a near 5050 
split among Scottish voters. If the 
measure passes, Scotland would separate from the United Kingdom (UK), 
thus breaking a union with England, 
Wales, and Northern Ireland that has 
existed since 1707.
United States media coverage has 
been scant, but the consequences 
could be signi?cant either way. An 
independent Scotland would need to 
apply to the European Union (EU), 
and the new United Kingdom would 
be signi?cantly weaker as an economic power. The Economist warns that 
this would weaken the EU as a whole, 
since the UK is already promoting a 
referendum to leave the EU itself.
If Scotland were to become a sovereign nation, there would be an immediate currency issue since it currently uses the British pound. Most 
EU countries use the euro, but Scotland would generally have to be approved for EU membership before it 
could start using the euro. 
Leaders from the Yes Scotland 
campaign say that an independent 
Scotland would continue using the 
pound, but foreign investors worry 
that without support from the UK the 
Scottish pound would lack ?nancial 
backing.
In terms of representation, an independent Scotland would have its 
own governing body. Scotland votes 
consistently more liberally than the 
rest of the UK, so it would be able to 
represent its people with more authority, instead of being con?ned to 
a liberal minority of the UK Parliament. Scotland would also make 
domestic decisions independently. 
For example, Scots generally oppose 
nuclear weapons, but the UK stores its 
nuclear weapons in Scottish lochs. An 
independent Scotland would likely 
become an anti-nuclear state.
Even if the referendum falls short, 
the British will have to revisit their 
relations with Scotland. Issues such 
as national defense and economic 
security will have to be brought into 
question if the countries remain 
united, but Scotland will probably 
get more autonomy within the United 
Kingdom. 
No matter which way the vote 
goes, the result of the Scottish referendum will set a precedent for the 
rest of Europe. Other semi-autonomous regions  the Catalan and 
Basque regions of Spain, the Flemish 
regions of Belgium  have unsuccessfully attempted to break away 
before. If Scotland succeeds now, we 
may see a new precedent for European independence.
Independent Scotland will affect EU
Emily Giedzinski/Junior Art ist
AMELIA BRITTON
Junior Staffwriter
Campaigning takes up a lot of 
political of?cials time and money. 
Maybe it takes up too much. The 
process of re-election appears to be 
the main focus of political of?cials to 
the extent that they will strategically 
choose to avoid making any major 
decisions.
On Sept. 6, President Barack 
Obama announced that he plans to 
put off action on immigration issues 
until after the midterm elections, 
claiming that the decision was the 
result of this summers surge of undocumented children crossing the 
United States border from Mexico. 
However, Obamas decision appears 
to be more of a response to Democrats in tough Senate races, who 
were concerned that taking action 
on immigration would affect their 
campaigns.
Before Obamas address, action 
was expected to take place on immigration by the end of the summer to 
reduce the number of deportations 
and possibly to offer work permits 
to people living in the United States 
illegally. 
Obama promised that he would 
act by the end of the summer to 
address the many problems of the 
immigration system. Now, White 
House of?cials claim that Obama 
will act by the end of the year. What 
does this mean for the hundreds of 
families who fear deportation and 
the separation of their families?
President Obama broke a promise to immigrants, their families, 
and their allies. Obama raised the 
hopes of many when he promised to 
take up comprehensive immigration 
reform during his ?rst year in of?ce. 
Six years later, many families are 
having to live with the fear of deportation as a result of Obamas delay 
until after the November elections. 
In addition, the administrations 
deportation numbers beat all previous records, with Obama deporting 
more than two million immigrants 
in his almost eight-year tenure. As 
a result, advocates for immigration 
reform have commonly referred to 
Obama as deporter-in-chief.
This is very unfortunate because 
it shows how dif?cult it is to take action in the United States political 
system. One ?aw of the system is 
the frequency of elections. Political 
of?cials spend more time focusing 
on getting re-elected than taking action, especially regarding controversial issues. Making major decisions 
is simply not something political 
of?cials will do during campaign 
season.
Recently, Senate Democrats running in conservative states have not 
had the best of luck, as GOP opponents use the subject of immigration 
to attack their campaigns. To activist groups, such as Americas Voice, 
Obamas decision to stall action 
was an obvious political move and a 
blunder.
Having waited for months for 
Obama to take action on the issue, 
disappointed immigrants and their 
allies are now forced to wait longer. 
President Obama must stop making 
false promises and ful?ll the hopes 
he once raised for signi?cant immigration reform.
LETTER TO THE EDITOR
We, a group of current Carnegie 
Mellon students and recent alumni, 
are writing to express our concerns 
over a recent document that was 
sent out to the campus community. 
On Friday afternoon, Dean of Student Affairs Gina Casalegno sent 
an email titled Preventing and Responding to Sexual Harassment and 
Violence. 
In this email, she outlines the 
changes and initiatives that Carnegie Mellon has taken since last September to improve its handlings of 
sexual assault on campuschanges 
which are necessary, considering 
that the Of?ce of Civil Rights in the 
Department of Education is currently investigating Carnegie Mellon for its alleged failure to protect 
students Title IX rights in regard to 
sexual assault.
 Within this email, Casalegno included a link to a publication that 
the university developed titled Decisions that Matter, and touted this 
publication as an example of the 
universitys principle initiatives 
in combating sexual violence on 
campus. 
We ?nd it very troubling, however, that a document about sexual 
violence called Decisions that Matter seems more focused on a victims decisions leading up to an assault than it does on telling students 
to make the decision not to rape 
someone.
 It includes a page on Risk Reduction of Sexual Assault, which 
lists speci?c actions students should 
take to avoid being assaulted, including Taking CMUs R.A.D. [Rape 
Aggression Defense] self-defense 
class, and Keeping the doors to 
your home locked at all times. 
These tips reinforce the idea that 
most rapes on college campuses 
are caused by strangers who attack 
you on the street or break into your 
home. 
However, in 75-80 percent of 
campus rape cases, a womans attacker is an acquaintance, classmate, friend, or (ex)boyfriend, according to the White Houses Not 
Alone report. Other tips include 
Avoiding making sexual decisions 
while you are intoxicated, implying 
that alcohol-facilitated rape is a decision that a victim makes.
 These tips come with an asterisked aside that says these tips cannot eliminate the chance for sexual 
assault, but they still are putting 
the onus on (presumably) women to 
prevent someone elses crime. More 
disturbingly, when you tell a woman 
that she must restrict her behavior 
in order to avoid being raped, what 
youre really saying is that a woman 
should ensure that a rapist goes after someone elseand how does 
that help to make Carnegie Mellon 
an ultimately safer community?
 This document also includes 
vague Pathways to Being an Active 
Bystander, but that list doesnt provide advice that is anywhere near 
as pointed or detailed as the Risk 
Reduction tips. This approach is 
entirely backward, as bystander intervention  and speci?cally, calling out men to engage as allies  
has been cited by the White House 
Task Force to Protect Students from 
Sexual Assault as one of the most 
promising prevention strategies.
 It is somewhat mind-boggling 
that a publication called Decisions 
that Matter thats about sexual assault doesnt focus entirely on the 
importance of getting consent in 
sexual interactions and on the consequences that will follow when a 
rapist decides to commit a crime. 
Even the page that lists Pennsylvanias legal de?nition of rape isnt 
thorough: It prominently features 
the phrase forcible compulsion, 
which is a term that carries certain 
legal connotations that Pennsylvania law has actually evolved beyond.
 CMUs initiatives may be wellintentioned  in fact, its ?rst-year 
education program Haven, which 
Casalegno also cites in her email, 
actually includes information that 
is far more effective in preventing 
sexual assault. 
However, Haven was only added 
to Orientation this year, meaning 
that the vast majority of the college campus is getting its education 
through misguided documents like 
Decisions that Matter. We suggest 
that those who want to learn more 
about proven methods of reducing 
sexual assault view resources on 
notalone.gov; students who want to 
learn more about their rights under 
Title IX to an education free of sexual assault or harassment should visit 
knowyourix.org.
 
Sincerely,
Anna Walsh, DC 13
Ashlyn Clark, DC 13
Thomson Yeh, SCS 16
Karishma Manglani, MCS 18   
Paul Davis, SCS 13 14
Smriti Chauhan, DC 18
Cortney Padua, CIT 17
Johanne Rokholt CIT 13, DC 16; 
Laura Stiles DC 14
Sage Po, CFA 15
Editors Note: Due to print space 
restrictions, not all signatures on 
this Letter to the Editor were able 
to be included in the printed issue. For a full list of more than 
35 signatures, please refer to the 
online version of this article at 
http://www.thetartan.org.
KAYLA LEE
Junior Staffwriter
Obama must stop stalling  
real immigration reform
BRANDON SCHMUCK 
Last week, Apple held its annual 
iPhone unveiling event in one of its 
most symbolic venues: the Flint Center for the Performing Arts. This location is where both the original Macintosh and the iMac, which brought 
forth Apples rebirth, were unveiled. 
As Apple took the stage, many wondered  after nearly three years 
without Steve Jobs  would its return to this venue mark yet another 
rebirth or, instead, a decline?
Apples event was another successful one, revolving around the 
new iPhone 6 models and the Apple 
Watch. With both of these devices, 
Apple has continued its trend of 
paying exceptional attention to detail. This attention can be seen everywhere from the way the glass 
screen of the new iPhone ?ows into 
its aluminum chassis to the new user 
interface controls accompanying the 
Apple Watch. 
However, while Apples attention to design has continued past the 
death of Jobs, one important thing 
has changed. Historically recognized 
as an industry leader, Apple is now 
becoming more and more of an industry follower.
Apple is very late in entering the 
industry with near ?eld communications (NFC), smartwatches, and 
enlarged screens. Google has long 
offered these features to its users. 
However, has Apple ever been the 
?rst to enter an industry? As was 
the case in the years of Jobs, Apple 
is often a latecomer to most of the 
industries it enters. However, it has 
almost always managed to choose a 
slow-growth industry and turn it into 
something enormous.
.
 While the new 
Apple has greatly 
changed, as it 
stated during the 
opening of the 
keynote: Different 
is the one thing 
about us that will 
always be the 
same. 
Take the smartwatch industry. 
Smartwatches are not exactly new. 
The Pebble has been around for 
over a year. However, in that year, 
Pebble only managed to sell around 
400,000 units since January 2013. 
Compare this to the nine million 
iPhone 5S units Apple sold within 
three days of its launch. It is evident 
that Apple may sell more watches on 
its release day than Pebble has during its lifetime. The reason the new 
Apple Watch will be more popular is 
not because of its specs, nor because 
people actually need another screen 
on their wrist. It is because instead 
of focusing on bragging about the 
specs, Apple focuses on people. Half 
of its keynote emphasized everyday 
people using its devices to make 
their lives easier.
The new Apple may not be churning out as many ideas that have never been seen before. In a time of maturing mobile industries, it may be 
?nally admitting defeat and making 
some decisions that it would have 
never made before, like the iPhone 
6s enormous ?ve and a half inch 
screen. However, in many ways, the 
reborn Apple is still the old Apple.
Only the new Apple would have 
admitted defeat and enlarged its 
screens while focusing solely on 
making it operable with one hand. 
Only the new Apple would be able 
to think up something like the digital 
crown, a new twist on the old device 
found on every analog watch. 
Only the new Apple would have 
been able to enter an industry as 
a follower but come out a leader. 
While the new Apple has changed 
greatly, as it stated during the opening of the keynote: Different is the 
one thing about us that will always 
be the same.
Brandon Schmuck (bschumuck@) is 
a staffwriter for The Tartan.
iPhone unveil proves Apple still a leaderCMU resources for assault victims must be improved
Braden Kelner/Editor-in-Chief

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  September 15, 2014
Mens Golf
Guy W. Kuhn Invitational
at Meadville Country Club 
Sept. 15, 9:30 a.m.
Womens Golf
Saint Vincent Invitational
at Glengarry Golf Links
Sept. 16, 10 a.m.
Womens Volleyball
Carnegie Mellon
at Marietta College
Sept. 17, 7 p.m.
Mens Soccer
vs. Washington & Jefferson College
at Carnegie Mellon
Sept. 17, 7 p.m.
Womens Volleyball
vs. Univ. of Mary Washington
at Carnegie Mellon
Sept. 19, 4 p.m.
Womens Volleyball
vs. Mount Union Univ.
at Carnegie Mellon
Sept. 19, 8 p.m.
Womens Cross Country
vs. Dickinson Long/Short
at Big Spring HS
Sept. 20, 10 a.m.
Mens Cross Country
vs. Dickinson Long/Short
at Big Spring HS 
Sept. 20, 10 a.m.
Womens Tennis
ITA Regional Tournament
Univ. of Mary Washington 
Sept. 20, 9 a.m.
Womens Volleyball
vs. John Carroll 
at Carnegie Mellon
Sept. 20, 12 p.m.
Mens Soccer
Carnegie Mellon
at Bethany (W.V.)
Sept. 20, 1 p.m.
Football
Carnegie Mellon
at Washington & Jefferson College
Sept. 20, 1:30 p.m.
Womens Soccer
Carnegie Mellon College
at Grove City
Sept. 20, 2 p.m.
Womens Volleyball
La Roche College
at Carnegie Mellon
Sept. 20, 4 p.m.
Womens Tennis
Univ. of Mary Washington
at ITA Regional Tournament
Sept. 20, 9 a.m.
Upcoming Events

---------------------------------------------------

September 15, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A9
SPORTS BRIEFS
Womens Volleyball
The Carnegie Mellon University volleyball team had 
a busy week, playing three 
games. They hosted Saint Vincent College on Tuesday and 
breezed to any easy straight 
set victory. Carnegie Mellon 
won the ?rst set 2521 and 
dominated the second set 
2514. The Bearcats made it a 
contest in the third set, keeping it close until the very end 
when Carnegie Mellon pulled 
out the 2522 set win. Firstyear outside hitter Heather 
Holton led the Tartans with 10 
kills in the match, followed by 
senior right setter Ali Celentano, who had nine kills.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
played two matches at the 
Bethany College Quad. Unfortunately, Carnegie Mellon had 
an off day and lost their ?rst 
two matches of the season. 
The Tartans lost both matches 
in straight sets 30. In the ?rst 
match against Thomas More 
College, the team came out 
slow dropping the ?rst two 
sets 2514 and 2512 before 
putting up a ?ght in the third 
set, only to lose 2521.
In the second game of the 
double header against Bethany, the Tartans looked less 
like the undefeated team they 
were becoming, losing 2522 
and 2523 in the ?rst two sets 
and pushing the third set into 
tiebreak points before falling 
2725.
Sophomore middle 
blocker/outside hitter Casey 
Salandras 10 kills were one of 
the few high points for the Tartans in the second game along 
with sophomore defensive setter Molly Higginss 21 digs.
The Tartans will play again 
next Wednesday when they 
travel to Marietta College.
Mens and Womens Cross 
Country
On Friday, the Carnegie 
Mellon mens and womens 
cross country teams competed 
at the Slippery Rock University Invitational, with each 
squad placing second.
Senior George Degen led 
the men with his third place 
?nish in a time of 26:15.03, 
followed up closely by sophomore Ryan Archer in fourth 
place, crossing the line at the 
26:34.91 minute mark.
The next ?ve runners for 
the Tartans ?nished in a bunch 
among the top 12 with senior 
Joshua Antonson, ?rst-year 
Ryan Auld, junior Marc-Daniel Julien, sophomore Curtis 
Watro, and junior Brian Bollens ?nishing eighth, ninth, 
10th, 11th, and 12th respectively, all of them crossing the 
line between 26:56.86 and 
27:18.17.
On the womens side, junior Elizabeth Snyder placed 
second overall with a time of 
22:57.88.
In a similar fashion to the 
mens team, the next set of 
runners was clumped together, this time between 13th 
and 19th place with random 
Slippery Rock and Mans?eld 
University of Pennsylvania 
runners caught in the middle. 
Junior Taylor Maggiacomo, 
senior Erin Kiekhaefer, junior Priya Patel, senior Hailey Brown, and junior Haley 
Bryant all ?nished between 
24:26.23 and 24:44.01 in the 
listed order.
Both Tartan teams race 
next Saturday at Dickinson 
College.
Womens Golf
The inaugural season for 
the Carnegie Mellon womens 
golf team had another ?rst on 
Tuesday as the team won its 
?rst ever tournament as an of?cial NCAA team.
Playing at the Grove City 
College Womens Golf Fall 
Invitational, ?rst-years Summer Kitahara and Robin Tan 
took ?rst and second overall, 
shooting 79 and 80, respectively. Fellow ?rst-years Emma 
Hoskins and Isabelle Tseng 
rounded out the team, placing 
sixth and 19th while shooting 
86 and 100, respectively.
On Saturday, the Tartans 
won their second straight 
tournament, winning the 
Thiel College Invitational with 
a combined team score of 341.
Once again Kitahara and 
Tan took ?rst and second overall, this time with a 77 for Kitahara and another 80 for Tan. 
Hoskins shot a 88 this time, 
and ?rst-year Diana Zhou 
played as part of the team 
after entering the previous 
tournament as an individual, 
shooting a 96.
Carnegie Mellon will next 
tee off Tuesday at the Saint 
Vincent Invitational.
Mens Golf
On Sunday and Monday of 
last week, the Carnegie Mellon mens golf team competed 
in the Hal Hansen Invitational.
The Tartans placed sixth 
overall on the 72 course, 
shooting a 298 on the ?rst day 
and a 309 on the second for a 
combined 607.
Senior Justin Fischler 
placed the highest individually, with a seventh place ?nish and a 148 between the 
two days. Senior Cameron 
Low and sophomore Jordan 
Klodowski tied for 16th with a 
151. Sophomore George Qian 
rounded out the scoring team 
with a 158 across the two days.
The Tartans started competing on Sunday in the Guy 
W. Kuhn Invitational, ?nishing 
up the two-day tournament on 
Monday.
Compiled by
CARL GLAZER
Mens soccer grabs a win
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
Two goals on either end of 
the half pushed Carnegie Mellon mens soccer to an impressive 30 win over Allegheny 
College on Saturday to pull 
their record for the season to 
an even 33. 
The score misrepresents a 
game that felt close throughout, and the shot count was 
nearly even. Carnegie Mellon was generating far better 
chances, though, and the Allegheny keeper was consistently working, while Allegheny only managed two shots 
within the frame.
Carnegie Mellons ?rst 
close call came midway 
through the second half as junior mid?elder Connor Webb 
put a shot off the goalpost. 
Carnegie Mellons pressure on the goal ?nally paid 
off as the half drew to a close 
when sophomore mid?elder 
Devin Keanes free kick led 
to some confusion in the box. 
Though the shot was unsuccessful, the team managed 
to turn it around to work for 
them.
Freshman forward Ryan 
Stinebaugh caused an Alegheny defender to panic and de?ect the ball into his own net. 
The goal capped off a solid 
half from Carnegie Mellon 
where Allegheny was unable 
to generate much pressure on 
Carnegie Mellons net.
The second half started 
quickly for Carnegie Mellon as Webbs shot just two 
minutes into the half was 
saved but not secured, and 
Stinebaugh drove home the 
rebound to open up some 
breathing room. 
With the half drawing to a 
close, Webb sealed the game 
after receiving a ball from 
senior defenseman Jakob Rohwer and setting himself up 
for Carnegie Mellons third 
goal of the afternoon. 
The pressure put on by 
Allegheny in the second half 
was turned away by two excellent saves from junior goalkeeper Eric Bykowsky to keep 
a clean sheet in the match. 
None of the 10 shots that 
were made by the team succeeded.
Overall, the Allegheny 
team committed 18 fouls on 
the ?eld, while Carnegie Mellon checked in with only 11.
Carnegie Mellons season 
continues when Washington 
and Jefferson College comes 
to Pittsburgh on Wednesday 
evening. The game will begin 
at 7:00 p.m.
to defend Rice from his twogame suspension, and the 
message was loud and clear. 
NFL: Not For Ladies. 
Many who populate online 
NFL forums determined that, 
by being near a football player, a woman was subjecting 
herself to the violent fantasies of NFL fans and her mere 
existence in the center of this 
which was entirely not her 
fault or what she wanted  
made her an enemy of manliness in American culture, 
depicted in the boundless violence of the NFL.
This is not even the ?rst 
time this happened. Decades 
ago, Cleveland Browns running back Jim Brown, a very 
charismatic and popular player like Ray Rice, was accused 
of sexual assault, and later 
of throwing a woman from a 
balcony. The NFL defended 
him, and they have defended 
employees who have committed violent acts against women ever since. The unsettling 
precedent shows just how 
deep this problem runs in the 
NFL.
As previously mentioned, 
the more complete and disturbing images of Rice have 
forced the NFLs hand. The 
NFL has instituted a new and 
somewhat harsher domestic 
violence policy, but the damage has been done. 
The NFL proved it was only 
willing to act on domestic violence when it became a major 
national story. 
A loud subset of fans 
proved that violence  not 
athletic prowess  is at the 
heart of Americas love for 
football and that such a culture lends itself to bitter 
misogyny.
Carolina Panthers defensive end Greg Hardy was 
convicted of throwing his 
girlfriend on a pile of guns 
while threatening to kill her. 
San Francisco 49ers defensive end Ray McDonald was 
recently arrested for domestic violence. Hardy is playing 
while his appeal is reviewed. 
McDonald is playing until his 
trial occurs.
This problem is only coming to light now, but its clearly not going away any time 
soon. Im not sure how much 
longer I can keep supporting 
this leagues product.
NFLs policies are questioned
RICE, from A10
SPORTS COMMENTARY

---------------------------------------------------

September 15, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A10
SPORTS COMMENTARY
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Staffwriter
Over the past few weeks, 
the NFL has revealed how 
truly out of touch the league 
of?ce is with the world outside of football. NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell went on 
a rampage of four-game PED 
suspensions, taking a quarter 
of a season away from around 
20 players who may have 
been trying to gain a physical 
edge in an extremely physical 
sport. 2013s breakout star, 
Cleveland Browns wide receiver Josh Gordon received a 
full season suspension for failing a marijuana test so narrowly that military guidelines 
would have let him walk.
Yet, of the 38 players suspended, the shortest suspension somehow belonged to 
Baltimore Ravens running 
back, Ray Rice, who was 
caught on video dragging his 
then-?ances unconscious 
body from a casino elevator in 
Atlantic City.
On Monday, after a new, 
disturbing video was released 
on TMZ and subsequently 
played on an endless loop on 
ESPN, MSNBC, and other networks who have no problem 
exploiting this situation for 
viewers, the NFL suspended 
Ray Rice inde?nitely and his 
contract with the Baltimore 
Ravens was terminated. 
However, the leagues delayed drop of the hammer 
masks a far more disturbing 
timeline.
The release of the ?rst video was regarded with widespread and justi?ed outrage. 
The league has a history of 
protecting domestic abusers 
on the grounds that they did 
not have enough evidence to 
make a decision. 
But this was clear, visible 
proof that a player had physically assaulted a woman in 
public. 
The NFL would have to 
act swiftly and forcefully and 
send the message that the 
NFL does not stand for violence against women.
After weeks of waiting on 
litigation to run its course, the 
NFLs initial judgment was 
that a two-game suspension 
was appropriate. 
Everyone watching was 
in shock. Many, including 
ESPNs Keith Olbermann, 
claimed Goodell should resign after the embarrassingly 
weak response.
A large portion of footballs 
fan base, on the other hand, 
had the opposite reaction.
A look at the comments on 
ESPN articles and online football forums reveal that many 
in the football community 
were appalled that the league 
acted at all. 
A subset of football fans 
lamented the emasculation 
of society and wondered what 
they had left once football 
was taken away.
Football has always been 
regarded as something of a 
violent fantasy land, where 
super humans in helmets destroy each other and manifest 
systems of physical dominance, and the heroes are the 
manliest, those who impose 
themselves with the most 
force and brutality. 
For football to condemn 
violence against women, 
for many fans, was the last 
bastion of male power and 
unadulterated aggression ?-
nally softening up under the 
weight of the political correctness movement. Worse, they 
blamed Rices then-?ance 
for provoking him and causing him to lose games and, as 
a result, money.
This mentality is terrifying. As much as people love 
the old clich that its just a 
game, the NFL is a viewing 
experience in which we get 
to see the personal decisions 
each individual makes and 
the extreme rami?cations 
that each choice has. 
A momentary lapse or 
mistake could be worth millions of dollars for a player, or 
at an emotional level, could 
make a player feel publicly 
humiliated. 
The fact that fans brush 
football off as just a game and 
desire for players to be given 
either more or less freedom 
than any other American citizen reveals a very unsettling 
culture among football fans. 
Brian Phillips, a staffwriter 
for the blog Grantland, wrote 
an excellent article about that 
particular point. 
This becomes even scarier 
when fans want the people 
around NFL players to suffer 
as well.
These are real people who 
do not live in an alternate universe where imposing pain on 
other humans is a good thing. 
Rice viciously assaulted his 
then-?ance and now, thanks 
to the TMZ video, everyone 
has seen the haunting incident with their own eyes. 
A huge portion of the 
community of fans rallied 
Tennis teams host matches
CARL GLAZER
Senior Staffwriter
On Friday, the womens 
Carnegie Mellon soccer team 
hosted Washington & Jefferson College and continued 
their undefeated season with 
a 62 scoring explosion. The 
goal outburst began with senior forward Savina Reid scoring her sixth goal through the 
?rst ?ve games of the teams 
season in the 21st minute on 
an assist by junior forward Alli 
McGugan. 
Senior mid?elder Jordyn 
Greenberg quickly put the Tartans up by two with her goal 
in the 28th minute. Greenberg 
tipped a header in off of the 
post and turned the miss by 
?rst-year mid?elder Tori Iatarola into a goal for Carnegie 
Mellon. Just before halftime, 
the Tartans extended the lead 
once again, this time with 
?rst-year mid?elder Morgan 
Kontor ?nding the back of the 
net on a shot within the 18, 
following assists by ?rst-year 
forward Grant Wilmer and 
Greenberg.
Coming out of halftime, 
the Tartans played even hotter than before, scoring two 
more goals within the ?rst 
eight minutes coming out of 
the half. The ?rst goal came 
in the 49th minute with Reids 
second goal of the game, this 
time on a header off of a cross 
by sophomore forward Megan 
Bartoshuk. Then in the 53rd 
minute, the Tartans went up 
by a commanding 50 lead on 
a near perfect reversal of the 
previous goal, with Bartoshuk 
scoring off of a cross into the 
box by Reid.
After managing only one 
shot on goal through the ?rst 
half, Washington & Jefferson 
started pushing back as the 
Tartans rested their starters 
and took their foot off the pedal. They scored two goals over 
a 10-minute span between the 
60th and 70th minute as they 
continually pushed the Carnegie Mellon defense with long 
balls and aggressive play.
With the lead cut to 52, 
sophomore mid?elder and 
defender Delanely Lam scored 
the ?nal goal in the 71st minute on a direct free kick into 
the top center of the net.
The Tartans also played at 
Capital on Sunday afternoon 
and continued their streak, 
winning 10.
Womens soccer team continues undefeated season 
NFLs response to Rice upsets
These are real people who do 
not live in an alternate universe 
where imposing pain on other 
humans is a good thing.
Kevin Zheng/Junior Photographer 
Left: Sophomore defender Amelia Clark blocks a player from Washington & Jefferson. Right: Sophomore forward Megan Bartoshuk drives down the ?eld to score against the Presidents. 
See RICE, A9
Kevin Zheng/Junior Photographer 
First-year womens tennis player Stacy Chang prepares her shot at the Invitational. Scores from the event 
have not yet been announced.
Kevin Zheng/Junior Photographer 
Senior mens tennis player Will Duncan slams a shot onto the court during the Carnegie Mellon Invitational. 
The invitational was held from Friday to Sunday, and as of press time, the scores had not yet been released.

---------------------------------------------------

Hungry No More
Drop everything  time to cook  B8
09.15.14 Volume 109, Issue 4
Look Again
A new perspective at CMOA  B4
pillbox
the tartans art and culture magazine

---------------------------------------------------

3
Comics
The perils of the comma and watching your 
phone grow up are in this weeks comics.
11
Movies
AB Films presents Fault In Our Stars and Edge 
Of Tomorrow in McConomy.
7
Hot Licks
Flying Lotus and Kendrick Lamar release the 
blistering Never Catch Me.
5
The Tartan. Box 119. UC Suite 103. Carnegie Mellon University. 5000 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15213. www.thetartan.org.  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung 
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Eunice Oh
8
4107
regulars...
Advice
Yes, there is a point to having engineers take 
Interpretation and Argument.
3
...diversions
...this week only
VIA Festival
A look at some of the must-see acts 
performing at the upcoming festival.
3
CMOA
A new exhibit at the Carnegie Museum of Art 
challenges viewers to rethink everyday objects.
4
Movies
As Above, So Below suffers from a 
mishandling of the found-footage genre.
7
College Cooking
These recipes are possible for any budding 
college culinary artist.
8
Mattress Factory
New installations at the Mattress Factory as 
part of the Artists In Residence exhibit.
10
Did You Know?
Save any conversation from awkward silence 
with these fun Carnegie Mellon facts.
10
Puzzles
Now that classes are underway, its the perfect 
time to procrastinate with some puzzles.
13
Horoscopes
Your spirit animal holds the secrets of the 
universe for you this week.
14
Calendar
Hey, theres stuff going on! Cool stuff! Go 
check it all out with this weeks calendar.
15

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 09.15.143
VIA Festival must-see acts
If you only see four things at VIA, let them be these
The VIA Festival is returning to Pittsburgh on Oct. 
15, and its a pretty big deal. The event, which 
will be expanding to include events in Chicago this 
year, is one of the highlights of Pittsburghs cultural 
calendar and touts some of the most celebrated acts 
in independent music.
Spread out at different venues around the city, 
VIA is sure to get you hitting many of Pittsburghs 
greatest venues, cinemas, and more  maybe even 
the one and only Carnegie Mellon. Here are a few 
key artists and events that will prove that the cost of 
an all-access pass is totally worth it.
Real Estate
Oct. 1
Location: Altar Bar
As someone who grew up in New Jersey  actually 
in the next town over from the band members  I 
can attest that indie-surf band Real Estate sounds 
exactly like how it feels to grow up in Jersey. The 
guitars are dreamy and wistful, the rhythm section 
bounces along calmly and loosely, and the vocals 
wander off like a chain of thoughts while relaxing in 
a deck chair on a May afternoon.
Real Estate is an act not to be missed by fans of 
live indie music. With all confident players, the 
bands songs sound as tight as they do on the 
record. If youre standing in the crowd, just try 
closing your eyes and see if you dont immediately 
feel transported back to those days when you were 
a teenager and youd just gotten your license and 
you spent the entire afternoon driving around the 
neighborhood aimlessly only because you could. 
Real Estate has a way of doing that to people.
Diode Milliampere
Oct. 3 & 4
Location: Carnegie Mellon, TBA
Some people  and it must be awful to live inside 
such a narrow mind  believe that music can only 
be made with the types of instruments that have 
been available to humans for thousands of years. 
There are others, however, that believe that musics 
definition doesnt lie in its means, but rather in 
something else. Diode Milliampere is a perfect 
example of the latter.
Using outdated computer equipment and an 
MS-DOS (the Microsoft precursor to the Windows 
operating system) application called Adlib Tracker 
II, Milliampere is one of the rising stars of the 
chiptune scene. Given his ancient (at least in 
terms of a technological timeline) and digital 
methods, Milliamperes music has a surprising 
amount of heart. Videos on his YouTube channel 
 including one of his ambient yet club-happy 
track Aquarius  give a peek into his unique 
songwriting process.
He will be giving a lecture discussing his work 
and methodology on Carnegie Mellons campus on 
Friday, Oct. 3 and performing on Saturday, Oct. 4.
Cakes Da Killa
Oct. 4
Location: TBA
There are very few musical genres  dance and 
disco really being the only exceptions  that 
historically have been welcoming toward the 
LGBTQ community, and rap is certainly near the top 
of the list of offenders. That homophobia, thankfully, 
is beginning to lose its grip, and many of the most 
talented noisemakers in rap today have come up 
through the LGBTQ community. Cakes Da Killa, 
with his fierce personality, is certainly one of the 
most gripping faces of this emerging community.
Over EDM-inspired beats, Cakes Da Killa (Rashard 
Bradshaw) spits fast and furious rhymes with a 
large personality. Recent releases You Aint Kno? 
and Naptime feature booming 808 trap, while the 
older (five months) I Run This Club has the kind 
of throbbing bass that would be right at home in a 
Miami nightclub.
Known for his wild and energetic performances, 
Cakes Da Killa is definitely a face at VIA that isnt to 
be missed. He will be performing on Saturday, Oct. 4.
Undervolt & Co.
Oct. 4
Location: TBA
In addition to music, VIA will also feature visual artists. Of the many available, the big pop-up event on 
Saturday, Oct. 4 will be curated by Undervolt & Co., 
a label for experimental video artists. There will be a 
group lecture given at Carnegie Mellon followed by 
live visuals from Pittsburgh-based Undervolt 
artists Yoshi Sodeoka, Johnny Woods, MSHR, 
Sabrina Ratte, and JJ Stratford.
Check out the Undervolt website, undervolt.co, to 
get a sense of the kind of psychedelic-inspired videos 
created by the artists on the label.
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear Evan,
My interp teacher just 
gave me a D on my first 
essay, and asked me to 
redo the whole thing, but 
I dont see the point. Im in 
business, and its not like 
Im going to be writing to 
people any way, as long 
as I can talk well and 
do business, Ill be fine. 
What is event the point of 
making nonwriting based 
majors take a writing 
class? I just dont see the 
the point.
Cluelessly,
Not Exactly Enthusiastic 
Doing Script-based 
Assignments, has No 
Experience In Teaching Of 
Rudiments
Dear NEEDS AN EDITOR,
Im sorry  I couldnt hear 
you the first time. Can you 
see the the sic point of 
taking Interpretation and 
Argument? Oh, you cant? 
Good to know.
I would put this in terms that 
you would understand, but 
frankly, I dont want to waste 
time and energy on trying 
to figure out what you could 
or couldnt comprehend. I 
know, harsh, but eh.
If I were to guess your age 
based on the quality of your 
writing, I would say you 
were an 8-year-old  a lazy, 
whining 8-year-old. And if 
you write like an 8-year-old 
in the job market  any job 
market  you may as well 
file for unemployment. This 
applies to emails, rsums, 
grant proposals, post-it 
notes, writings on the walls 
of restroom stalls: If you 
cant get anywhere close 
to being cogent, clear, and 
consistent in your writing, 
and if you cant make a 
cohesive argument, then 
youre screwed.
The reason why you and 
many other first-years with 
similar disabilities (often in 
STEM disciplines) have to 
take Interp is to make you 
realize that fact, and to help 
you organize an argument. 
Unfortunately, most Interp 
professors are so caught up 
in their respective subjects 
that they lose sight of this 
goal, but they can still smell 
sorry excuses for the English 
language from miles away.
So, now you know. Your 
writing sucks. Its difficult to 
get better, but work on it. Itll 
be good for you.
Or just work a 9-to-5,
Evan
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About why Interp is important
Theres too many events going on to fit on one page, so 
for more information on VIA  including other artists 
to check out if you like whats listed here  read the full  
article online at www.thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

4art
pillbox 09.15.14
Think you know the function of everyday objects like 
dressers, ?yswatters, and taxidermy ducks? Think again 
 or, rather, look again.
The Carnegie Museum of Arts latest exhibition, 
Sebastian Errazuriz: Look Again, invites visitors to 
re-imagine the way they think about the function and 
construction of objects they interact with daily.
The exhibit, which opened on Sept. 6 and is located in 
the Forum Gallery near the museums entrance and the 
Hall of Architecture, is an exercise in training the mind 
to assign new meaning or give multiple uses to items 
that people usually take for granted. The sole artist of the 
exhibit, Sebastian Errazuriz, asks visitors to challenge 
their expectations of the seemingly mundane in an 
unusual, yet exciting, collection of furniture installations 
and display pieces:
Magistral cabinet
Upon entering the Forum Gallery, visitors are confronted 
by a looming form ?tted with 80,000 bamboo spikes 
covering its entire frame. The form, a Magistral cabinet, 
is not only meant to contain things, but guard them as 
well, according to the pieces description. The spikes 
took six weeks and 12 team members to hammer into 
the cabinet, which was constructed of bamboo, glass, 
maple, and plywood in 2011. Through this piece, as 
well as an accompanying Explosion cabinet, Errazuriz 
questions how furniture should be constructed and 
invites visitors to look at them as not simply furniture.
The pieces form eye-catching centerpiece displays 
that are sure to pull viewers further into the gallery. The 
Explosion cabinet, completed in 2014, looks as if half 
of its wooden panels have been blasted into clean-cut 
pieces, but they are not totally separated from the rest of 
the cabinet, which remains a pristine rectangular shape. 
Magistral, on the other hand, has an imposing and 
intimidating, yet admirable quality about it. While its 
hard to brush aside the feeling that one could be mortally 
wounded while interacting with the cabinet, it is almost 
impossible not to want to touch the cabinets spikes and 
get to the drawers hidden behind them.
DIE and MIRACLE ?yswatters
Among a shelf of household objects, including watches, 
a snow globe, and a salt and pepper shaker, stand two 
?yswatters enclosed in a glass case. One reads DIE 
and is covered completely in mesh to make a ?ys death 
certain. In contrast, the second ?yswatter, called the 
MIRACLE ?yswatter, contains an image of a cross. The 
cross is not covered in mesh, so that, in the event that 
a person swings at a ?y, there is a chance that the ?y 
will move through the void space that makes the cross. 
According to the pieces description, the DIE ?yswatter 
forces a person to consider the act of killing before they 
perform the act, while the MIRACLE ?yswatter gives a 
?y the chance to live and leaves it up to the user as to 
whether or not they believe the ?y survived by chance or 
miracle.
The ?yswatters, created in 2011 and made of raul 
wood, transform not only an everyday object, but also 
a mindless action into a deeply personal experience. 
The artist makes the viewer contemplate death and the 
chance life is given to continue living on Earth. Although 
the ?yswatters are small in comparison to many of the 
larger installations of Look Again, they create a pair of 
objects more in?uential than most others in the exhibit.
El Santo
Next to a desk that forces those working at it to look 
at their re?ection in a thin mirror sits a chair, called 
El Santo. Above the chair hangs a halo-shaped bulb. 
The piece, created in 2004 with lacquered wood, a 
?uorescent tube, and electrical parts, turns those who 
sit in it into saints. The piece is meant to question the 
nature of canonization and its possible arbitrariness, 
according to its description.
This seemingly simple piece is one that, beyond 
critiquing religion, brings attention to the notion that 
the titles and honors people give one another are simply 
titles and honors, while people can make themselves 
anything they want given the right tools and mindset.
Boat Cof?n
Down the hall from the Forum Gallery, in the Hall of 
Architecture, stand a number of additional pieces of the 
exhibit. The installations in the hall include a motorcycle, 
a four-tabletop coffee table containing four nude portraits 
of the artist, a piano hanging from the ceiling, and the 
standout of the bunch, Boat Cof?n. This piece is exactly 
what it claims to be: a cross between a boat and a 
cof?n. The cof?n is meant to give the owner a choice 
to face death head on. Owners of boat cof?ns can take 
themselves out to sea to die on their own terms, rather 
than waiting to die a possibly slow and uncomfortable 
death elsewhere.
The pieces concept is less hard-hitting than the others 
in the exhibit, since the notion that humans have the 
choice to face death when they want has been explored 
many times. However, the piece stands out because of 
the alternative method it presents for an individuals 
death journey. The cof?n boat is a humorous concept, 
leaving one hard-pressed to ?nd a more ridiculous way 
to end ones life. The piece is constructed of a cof?n, Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
The Explosion cabinet (left) and Magistral cabinet (right) ask museum visitors to look at ordinary 
furniture in new ways.  
New exhibit at Carnegie Museum of Art
Sebastian Errazuriz: Look Again challenges visitors to rethink the purposes of items
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Boat Coffin allows users to face death head on. If they 
wish to float out to sea as their last wish, they can 
choose to die at their own specified time, rather than 
awaiting a possibly uncomfortable death.

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 09.15.145
Hot Licks
Never Catch Me
Blistering.
In both lyricism and production, this is the single word 
that sums up Never Catch Me the new song from Flying 
Lotus featuring verses from Kendrick Lamar, released 
in anticipation of Flying Lotuss upcoming album Youre 
Dead!, out on Oct. 7.
Two proli?c artists in their respective mediums  Kendrick 
Lamar in rap and Flying Lotus in hip-hop beat production 
 come together on Never Catch Me to transcend 
genre norms.
To the point when Kendrick Lamar, through layered vocals, 
sings youre never gonna catch me, no, you can tell hes 
not trying to make a statement regarding other rappers 
trying to match his skill. Rather, its a statement about his 
own creative work outliving himself and, in that way, his 
own mortality will never catch him.
Tim Fitzgerald | Junior Staffwriter
rethinks everyday objects
they encounter in their daily lives in a variety of ways
lacquered wood, leather, steel, nautical hardware, 
rope, a blanket, gas tank, and ?ashlight, and was 
created in 2009.
Other remarkable pieces in the collection include 
Duck Lamp and Duck Fan, which incorporate 
taxidermy birds into the frameworks of objects. In 
Duck Lamp, a taxidermy gooses head is replaced 
with a lamp head, while in Duck Fan, a duck is 
placed in front of a fan to show that birds ?y against 
the wind every day, according to the pieces 
description. The artist believed Duck Lamp to ring 
better than Goose Lamp when naming the fan.
There are also shelves created from piano key-like 
black strips and a cabinet with mirrors forming a 
kaleidoscope, as well as Occupy Wall Street signs 
that serve as chairs too, all of which beg viewers to 
question whether or not they can use an object in 
a different way than they are told to use it. At the 
entrance to the exhibit are many of Errazurizs initial 
sketchings of the objects he eventually brought to 
life, and a magnetic board placed on the wall next to 
the sketches invites viewers to show off their own 
sketches.
The exhibit is most certainly one of the Carnegie 
Museum of Arts more unusual displays, with 
striking pieces such as a door with two peep 
holes, behind which lies a wall and a message that 
screams You are not a pirate!! *open the other 
eye & look again, among its taxidermy ducks and 
potentially dangerous furniture. Beyond their shock 
factor, the exhibits pieces  each and every one of 
them  ask visitors to spend some time with them 
to understand the meaning behind the zany ?rst 
impressions they leave. In a world where people are 
constantly on the move, a collection of work that 
asks people to spend one more second standing in 
meditation to discern multiple meanings and uses 
for an object can do no wrong.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Duck Lamp fuses a taxidermy duck to a lamp, 
fitting the duck with a new head.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
Duck Fan shows that birds fly against the wind 
every day, according to the pieces description.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
El Santo transforms anyone who sits beneath its 
halo into a saint. 
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
These signs arent what they appear to be. If 
unfolded, they are cut in precise places so that 
they can be made into stable chairs. The words 
are from the Occupy Wall Street movement.

---------------------------------------------------

OCTOBER 01 - 05
DEAFHEAVEN
with Liturgy, Slices
October 02 / 9:30PM / Rex Theater
$17 Advance - $20 at the door
with Blue Hawaii, Zebra Katz, Traxman, L-Vis 1990, 
Cakes da Killa, Undervolt, and more
October 04 / 7:00PM / Union Trust Building
$20 Advance - $25 at the door
SATURDAY MAIN EVENT
with Mark McGuire, Giant Claw, White Reeves
October 01 / 8:00PM / The Shop
$12 advance - $15 door
DANL BOONE
with MikeQ, Badboxes, Vogue PGH +
October 01 / 9:00PM / Cattivo
$10 advance - $12 door
KICKOFF PARTY
with Ellie Herring, Chase Smith +
October 03 / 11:55PM / Hot Mass
$15 door
BAMBOUNOU
with Edgar Um, Aaron Clark
October 04 / 11:55PM / Hot Mass
$15 door
JD SAMSON
with Circuit Des Yeux, Lattimore & Zeigler Duo
October 05 / 8:00PM / Thunderbird Cafe
$10 advance - $15 door
STEVE GUNN
SATURDAY MAIN EVENT IS $15 AT THE DOOR FOR STUDENTS WITH VALID ID
5 DAYS / 15+ EVENTS / 50+ ARTISTS/TICKETS + FULL DETAILS at via2014.com

---------------------------------------------------

movies
pillbox 09.15.147
Abandon all hope, ye who enter here.
Apparently, thats the inscription marking the Gates 
of Hell, deep down in the haunted catacombs of Paris, 
according to the ?lmmakers of As Above, So Below. 
Unfortunately, that should have been the cautionary 
tagline for this movie and for the poor souls who wasted 
$10 to watch it.
The ?lm starts when Scarlet, a ruthless alchemy scholar, 
?ips open a video camera to introduce herself and to 
explain why she is in Iran. Wanting to ful?ll her late 
fathers quest to ?nd the Philosophers Stone (yes, the 
same stone from Harry Potter), Scarlett is in the midst 
of an overly reckless task to ?nd a cipher key that will 
help her ?nd the stone, located in Paris. Finding the key 
entails traveling to underground ruins that will literally 
blow up in two seconds, yet she decides to go ahead and 
search for the key, all the while recording everything. 
She even sees an apparition of her late father in the ruins 
and, instead of bolting out of this creepy underground 
cavern, holds the camera up to him as the ruins explode. 
Thats the ?rst warning for this careless ?op of a ?lm.
Despite the obvious hatred of this movie seeping through 
this review, it is refreshing to see a protagonist who is 
intelligent and has a genuine motivation to carry out 
an expedition at any cost. Her determination to ?nd the 
Philosophers Stone is so ?xed that she attracted the 
attention of a documentary ?lmmaker, providing a ?imsy 
excuse for the found-footage style that has to be endured 
for the next 90 minutes. She then recruits her sidekick 
George to help discover the stone and, after recklessly 
destroying museum artifacts (while ?lming her act of 
criminal mischief), partners with a Frenchman named Pap, 
who promises to guide her through the catacombs beneath 
the streets of Paris, where she believes the stone is located.
Early into the journey, the group stumbles into trouble 
as Scarlett wants to go into a forbidden section of the 
catacombs but Pap resists, warning that those who go in 
never come out. Fortunately for Scarlett, the catacombs 
collapse and seal off their escape, trapping them in the 
only undiscovered section of the catacombs. Scarlett, 
unfazed by the creepy female satanic cultists and the 
other highly-visible warning signs of death, encourages 
the crew to venture further underground, suggesting 
that the only way out is to go deeper. Its kind of 
surprising that the rest of the group actually believes 
that going deeper underground will lead them back up 
to the streets of Paris. But, it is a horror movie, and the 
director probably thought that stupidity is required for 
such a genre.
As they crawl deeper and deeper into the catacombs, 
a series of things start to happen. Unfortunately, these 
things are barely enough to give you the creeps, let 
alone a good, old-fashioned scare. The characters start 
experiencing apparitions from each of their tormented 
pasts. Scarlett, again, pays no mind to these apparitions 
and pushes the group onward. Eventually, as they are 
about to enter through the Gates of Hell, the group 
faces a multitude of supernatural forces. Despite this 
promising plot twist, the rest of the ?lm carries off 
like a pointless video game, with no real scares or 
psychological trauma. By this time in the ?lm, the only 
important objective is to wait for the ?lm to end so this 
vomit-inducing journey can be over with.
You would think that when a group of people are about 
to enter the Gates of Hell, their priorities, such as 
carrying around a heavy ?lm camera for the purpose 
of making a documentary, would change somewhat. 
Fortunately, the crew eventually decides to ditch the 
camera as they ?nally realize its just one big burden and 
is recording something they most likely wont want to 
re-watch on a Friday night with a glass of wine. Smart 
decision. But, strangely enough, the ?lm continues with 
the found-footage style .... with no camera. The story 
continues to be told through the point of view of person 
holding a camera and, if they stumble or fall, its as if 
the camera falls to the ground and we, the audience, 
are forced to view the ?lm in the perspective of a 
nonexistent video camera. Whats the point of such a 
meaningless medium?
Found footage ?lmmaking is, for the most part, a 
nauseating artistic effect. Cameras are meant to be an 
invisible, yet active spectator. They are a part of the 
characters universe and the journey they take part in, 
and we are the natural force that accompanies them. 
A camera can also establish the space of the world 
and help the audience see what the characters cannot, 
establishing elements such as tension, suspense, and 
irony. But, when a director decides to throw in a camera 
that the characters must tote around, the medium 
becomes forced and constricted. We are limited to 
seeing only what the digital camera can see. Instead of 
advancing the plot, the camera now becomes a burden 
for the characters at all times, even during situations 
when they shouldnt worry about carrying a camera.
As Above, So Below had an interesting premise that 
could have made for a unique ?lm. Setting the ?lm in 
Paris and exploring the underground world below had 
the potential to be a very enjoyable experience. But, 
while the director thought a found-footage format would 
make the ?lm stupendous, it just became stupid.
Andie Park | Staffwriter
As Above, So Below shouldve stayed below
Found footage horror ?lm is light on scares and tension, but heavy on stupidity and plot holes
Meredith Newman | Junior Staffwriter
Based on the young adult novel of the same name by author and YouTube 
personality John Green, The Fault in Our Stars revolves around two teenagers 
who are smitten with each other after meeting in a cancer support group. 
Together they experience the phenomenon of falling in love while simultaneously 
staring death straight in the face. However, the script is written with a degree of 
levity not expected to be paired with a cancer movie. Shailene Woodley stars 
as Hazel Grace Lancaster, the female half of this ill-fated couple, and Ansel Elgort 
stars as the witty and charmingly upbeat Augustus Waters. Both actors deliver 
heart-wrenching and tear-jerking performances that require audience members 
to bring boxes of tissues. Anyway, acclaimed movie critic and historian Kim 
Kardashian tweeted, This movie OMG its literally my new Notebook, so how can 
you not go and see The Fault in Our Stars?
The Fault In Our Stars
Friday, Sept. 19
8 p.m.
Edge Of Tomorrow
Saturday, Sept. 20
8 p.m.
Finally, Tom Cruise in a role in which he doesnt play someone who is smooth, 
con?dent, and an alpha male. Oh wait. Scratch that. Edge of Tomorrow, based 
on the Japanese novel All You Need Is Kill by Hiroshi Sakurazaka, is set in the 
near dystopian future where humans are at war with sinewy robotic aliens called 
Mimics. Although having little to no combat experience, Major William Cage (Tom 
Cruise) is thrown into battle on what appears to be a D-Day-esque battle. Cage 
slowly transforms from a meager soldier into a dynamic hero largely due to Rita 
Vrataski (Emily Blunt), an exceptional soldier and assassin. But heres the twist: 
every time Cage is killed during battle, he wakes up again and appears to have 
traveled back into the past, giving him the opportunity to right his wrongs  la 
Groundhog Day. Edge of Tomorrow proves to stand out in the ever-expanding 
science ?ction genre.
moviesinmcconomyMcConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

cooking
pillbox 09.15.1498cooking
pillbox 09.15.14
Microwave cooking is so freshman year. After those two 
wonderfully naive and shiny semesters, life gets real, 
and so does the lack of food in your kitchen, if youre 
lucky enough to get one on campus or decide to move 
off campus. Youre one year closer to being a real person, 
and part of that life is acknowledging that, yes, you too 
can cook.
So, without further depressing ado about how you 
probably arent on the meal plan anymore, here are some 
recipes that will make subsisting not only ?lling, but also 
delicious.
Summer Splunk, serves 2
This dish is named for the sound that the amazing 
vegetable stew makes as you plop it on top of a 
mountain of pasta  splunk. The beauty of this recipe 
is its variability. In the winter, substitute fresh veggies 
for frozen ones. They wont be quite as delicious, but 
youll still be just as satis?ed. To that end, if you dont 
like one of the ingredients, change it! Trust your gut. 
Its growling. Make sure to time your multitasking well 
 start the pasta when you start the onion. Then youll 
have a chance to drain and cool it before you add it.
1 white onion, chopped
2 cloves of garlic, chopped
2 zucchinis, sliced 
1 container of grape tomatoes, sliced in half
3 spicy Italian sausages, grilled and sliced
3 ears of fresh corn, off the cob
Fresh basil and thyme, to taste
Rosemary, to taste
Olive oil
Salt and pepper, to taste 
 box of fettuccine, cooked and drained
Parmesan cheese
1) Saute the onion and garlic in the olive oil until the 
onions are limp and the garlic is browned. You should be 
able to smell the deliciousness.
2) Add the zucchini, stirring it in with the onion and 
garlic. Add salt, pepper, and any other spices (except the 
basil) that youre using. (Hint: Oregano would be a great 
substitute.)
3) When the zucchini is cooked down (itll shrink as the 
moisture leaves it), add the tomatoes and corn. These 
vegetables take less time to cook. Add the basil, then 
taste your creation so far. If you think it needs more salt 
or pepper or anything else, add it! Youre in charge here.
4) Toss the sausage in and lower the heat. Let it all stew 
for a few minutes so the ?avors mingle. Flavor mingling 
is essential.
5) Toss the drained and cooled pasta with olive oil and 
some salt. Put a generous serving on a plate.
6) Top that with a serving of the veggies, the cheese, and 
any remaining basil.
Not Your Mommas Fried Rice, serves 2
Greasy fried rice is the ultimate guilty pleasure when 
the 2 a.m. munchies strike. The next time your mouth 
waters at the thought of the sticky rice and the salty 
sting of soy sauce, close the GrubHub tab on your 
browser and make your own. The key to a great fried 
rice is the rice. A sticky white rice makes for a perfectly 
textured ?nal product. Use leftover rice from last nights 
order to make yourself feel better about the fact that 
youre eating at 2 a.m. in the ?rst place.
1 cup of white rice, cooked 
1 bag of frozen veggies, defrosted so they wont be 
watery and gross
Chicken, cooked (or tofu, or beef, or pork, or nothing if 
you arent feeling very protein-y)
2 eggs
Soy sauce
Sesame oil (if you dont have it, dont sweat it)
Conquer your hunger and learn to cook
Abandon your meal plan, turn your back on GrubHub, and get to GEagle: youre cooking
Dont have fresh zucchini, tomatoes, or corn? Just 
substitute canned or frozen vegetables in Summer 
Splunk. Itll be just as good.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
by Laura Scherb | Operations Manager[]
Lots of vegetable oil
Lots of salt
Red pepper ?akes
Paprika
Ginger
1) Start by throwing some vegetable oil in a pan. Make it 
a big pan, though, because all of this is going in.
2) Cook the veggies in the oil, making sure that theyre 
not too watery going in. Watery veggies make for sad 
fried rice. Season them appropriately.
3) When the veggies start to brown and get crispy, add 
some sesame oil and soy sauce and let them fry in the 
oils for a bit. This frying is essential for ?avoring the fried 
rice.
4) Add your protein of choice and lightly fry it with the 
veggies and oils. Add more seasoning if you think it 
needs it.
5) Add the rice to the pan and stir it around to mix 
everything in together. Keep stirring so nothing sticks to 
the pan and burns.
6) Make a hole in the middle and crack the eggs into it. 
Let them cook just until the whites are turning ... well, 
white, and then stir them into everything else. Make 
sure theres an even coating and dont forget to stir! Your 
tongue will thank you later.
7) When the egg-covered mixture of deliciousness is 
cooked, add a decent amount of soy sauce. I usually 
keep adding until everything has turned brown, but 
it depends on what you like! Add more spice here if 
desired.
8) Let the soy sauce cook into everything for about a 
minute, then take it off the heat. Consume and let the 
food coma begin.
Sweet Potato Salad, serves 4 as a side
This recipe is easy. And its vegan. Its v-easy. Even if 
you love eating animal products, youll still fall head-overheels for this substantial salad. With a nice baguette, this 
could easily become a cheap but impressive dinner for 
two. Moreover, its embarrassingly easy, super healthy, 
and pretty darn delicious. You literally cannot lose.
3 or 4 large sweet potatoes (or yams)
1 purple onion, chopped
2 avocados, diced
1 red pepper, diced
2 cans of black beans, drained
1 can of corn, drained
Olive oil, for drizzling
1 bunch of cilantro (unless youre one of those people 
who is genetically predisposed to hating cilantro 
because it tastes like soap)
Salt and pepper to taste
1) The ?rst thing you have to do is preheat the oven to 
400 degrees. Dont panic about the fact that youre using 
the oven. Its just for baking the potatoes. Stay with me.
2) Next, take a large, very sharp knife and slice the sweet 
potatoes or yams. The slices should be reasonably thick 
but not thick enough that they dont cook. I usually 
eyeball it, but for those of you who need a measurement, 
I would say around 1/2 inch. But, again, dont panic if 
theyre too big or too small. Itll work out.
3) Toss the slices in some olive oil, then put them in a 
pan and roast them for about 20 minutes. Check them 
often to make sure theyre not burning to crisps. When 
theyre soft enough to be speared by a fork, take them 
out and set them aside to cool.
4) Chop, dice, and drain everything that needs to be 
chopped, diced, or drained. Combine all of the chopped, 
diced, or drained things in a large bowl and set it aside.
5) Now that your potatoes have cooled a little bit, dice 
them and add them to the bowl. Toss everything around 
so the colors mix up and it looks fun and festive. Add 
your salt and pepper until it tastes seasoned to you.
6) Chop some cilantro and sprinkle it on top to make it 
look fancy, like you know what youre doing.
7) Set it on the table, admire, and pat yourself on the 
back for making something that gorgeous. Then make 
sure you turn the oven off.
Note: This recipe was inspired in part by a recipe found 
on audreysapron.wordpress.com.
One Last Bite of Wisdom 
There is little feeling more satisfying  or adultlike  than sitting down to a plateful of food that 
you just brought into existence with your own two 
hands, a few appliances, and a recipe. Not only did 
you create something, but now you get to stuff your 
face and Instagram a picture to make your friends 
jealous. Chances are, its healthier, cheaper, and more 
aesthetically pleasing than what theyre eating tonight.
Dont be afraid to change things about recipes to make 
them taste better for you. You wont ruin it  youll only 
make something new. Cooking isnt about being right 
or wrong. Its about ?nding what tastes good to you and 
sharing it with your friends and family.
Or keeping it for yourself, pigging out, and slipping 
slowly into a food coma as you realize just how amazing 
you are at life.
Sweet potato salad plays the sweet richness of potato (or yam, depending on what kind of person you are) 
against the sharp flavor of onion, the smoothness of buttery avocados, and the zing of cilantro.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Serve the Summer Splunk over freshly cooked fettuccine. Top it with some cheese, and itll look fresh out 
of a five-star kitchen.

---------------------------------------------------

10art
pillbox 09.15.14
Five artists, all Pittsburgh based, unveiled 
installations at the Mattress Factory on Friday night 
at an opening reception for the museums ongoing 
Artists in Residence exhibit. Diaspora by Ryder 
Henry, damn everything but the circus by Benjamin 
Sota, Word Balloons by John Pea, and Is Always, 
What Does It Mean?, Again and Again. by Danny 
Bracken will all be on display in the main Mattress 
Factory gallery, with Body Memory Architecture by 
Kathleen Montgomery on display at the museums 
off-site gallery through May 31, 2015.
 
There are four installations in the main gallery, each 
?lling an entire room.
Diaspora, by Ryder Henry, is an immensely detailed 
futuristic city made from cardboard boxes. The 
city is at once both familiar and alien. Rather 
than opting for a concrete jungle, Henry creates 
a grassy suburbia, punctuated by foreign objects, 
black in color with asymmetric outlines and 
visually challenging structures. Elements of both 
dystopian and idealistic science ?ction are present. 
Red colored retro-futuristic rockets and circular 
skyscrapers pulled out from a Jetsons cartoon 
reside less than a block away from modern housing 
developments and heavy industrial machines, 
which look more like the burned out carcasses of 
spaceships than a traditional factory. Outside the 
city are ?oating islands that represent isolated 
memories from the creators life. From a Chinese 
restaurant to a school and more, Henry seems 
devoted to inciting feelings of nostalgia and personal 
recognition from viewers.
Theres also a larger grid of isolated apartment 
buildings, each on a small platform rising up from 
the ground. The isolated buildings are spread 
across an entire room, giving the viewer a sense 
of scale and isolation. The manner in which Henry 
experiments with space was one of my favorite 
sensations in the museum. 
There exists yet another part of the exhibit, the 
wildest yet, composed of fantastical rounded 
circular starships adorned with Arabic symbols 
and incisions taken straight from a mosque. Afrofuturism is a relatively well-known and interesting 
art form, but this may be the ?rst time Ive seen an 
attempt at Arabic futurism pulled off. The exhibit 
ends with a model of the starship Enterprise, again 
adorned with Arabic patterns and surrounded by a 
web of magazine clippings from Henrys life, once 
more demonstrating his willingness to straddle the 
boundaries between fantastical abstraction and 
deeply personal expression.
In contrast, Benjamin Sotas damn everything but 
the circus, was unfortunately not as engaging. 
The cleverly-placed turnstile at the installations 
entrance into a room-sized red tent is exciting, but 
what awaits inside is a rather uninspired simulation 
of a circus. The ?rst noticeable thing about the 
tent is the oddly chosen jazz music (does circus 
music often feature live saxophone?) and shifting 
lighting. It ?uctuates between daytime (overly redorange glow) to bluish nightclub lighting. Finally, 
the physical exhibits  a trapeze, a wire, and a 
strongmans ball  were very uninspired. A little 
more visual challenge and abstraction could have 
been used here. 
 
Word Balloons by John Pea fared a little better. 
The exhibit consisted of two huge comic word 
balloons and translates a pop culture icon from a 
2-D to a 3-D medium. However, the word balloons 
themselves distract from the other aspects of the 
exhibit. The smaller balloon says Sometimes I 
just dont know how to feel in the world, while 
the larger one reads So I talk and talk and work 
to ?ll the emptiness. While the concept of literally 
using a physical manifestation of speech to ?ll 
emptiness is an interesting use of the size of the 
balloons, I found myself to be rather mesmerized by 
the smooth curves and dimensionality of the speech 
balloon itself. Instead of feeling the awkwardness 
of what Pena was trying to convey, I actually found 
myself being inexplicably calmed by the shape and 
smoothness of the speech bubble.
 
Finally, Danny Brackens exhibit: Is Always, What 
Does it Mean?, Again and Again. is actually three 
different components in one room, tied together by a 
common atmosphere. This exhibit is the best of the 
bunch. The light in the room is completely dimmed, 
save for spotlights illuminating each component. 
Bracken also uses music effectively to create a 
serene and calming environment. In seeking to make 
his viewer contemplate the essence of nature and 
man-made simulation, Bracken is successful. In the 
?rst third of the room, Bracken has two pods, one of 
actual dirt and grass, and a separate one consisting 
of a digital projection of dirt and grass on a curved 
surface. Using the music as an emotional baseline of 
sorts, Bracken seems to ask whether the projection 
of grass and dirt can match the emotional response 
of the real thing. The next component reinforces this 
idea, a screen showing shifting, rounded, cool blue 
shapes. Looking at the screen, and the blue patterns 
moving across it coupled with the ambient music, it 
is easy to recreate the emotional response from the 
natural scene it emulates. The ?nal component is a 
man-made rainbow, a stream of water droplets being 
sprayed from the ceiling and creating a hoop-shaped 
double rainbow. More self-contained than a natural 
rainbow, the ?nal component seems to suggest that 
simulated, digital art can indeed be more impressive 
than the real thing. 
New art at Mattress Factory
Five Pittsburgh artists see new installations at museum
Meredith Newman | Junior Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Sept. 17, 1914
The Mechanical Engineering Lab gains 
a H.K. Porter Co. 100 horsepower 
locomotive boiler, as well as a De 
Laverne 10 horsepower oil engine.
50years ago
Sept. 16, 1964
In a section called Readers Write, 
one unnamed student voices their 
concern about classes starting on Yom 
Kippur, a Jewish holiday referred to as 
the Day of Atonement.
25years ago
Sept. 12, 1989
Tuition increases 7.7 percent for the 
199091 school year, which amounts 
to a whopping $14,000. There are 
many more increases to come.
10years ago
Sept. 13, 2004
The Fort Foundation provides aid 
to the Tepper School of Business to 
encourage women to pursue careers 
in business, a field that was 30 percent 
female at the time.
5years ago
Sept. 14, 2009
Carnegie Mellon hosts Tastes of the 
Tartans to show off new dining options 
like Tazza DOro. The event also 
includes a nine-hour marathon of The 
Office.
1year ago
Sept. 16, 2013
The humanitarian club Juntos speaks 
about their summer trip to the village 
of Rosa Grande, Nicaragua to help 
with building projects. Juntos was 
also able to lead art workshops and 
an educational initiative on how to use 
Microsoft Office.
In an age where everything is shared and cheaply consumed 
by anyone with a smartphone, art is becoming more of a 
peoples medium. If this is where art appreciation is going, 
Ill be the first one to ditch my starched suit for a pair of worn 
jeans and a Wheres Waldo? sweatshirt.
Sid Bhadauria| Junior Staffwriter

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 09.15.1411
On the Phone by xkcd
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com
They Grow Up So Fast by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 09.15.14
01 Extra Ordinary by Li Chen
email@exocomics.comexocomics.com
buttersafe@gmail.com  www.buttersafe.com
Help a Thief by Alex Culang and Raynato Castro

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 09.15.1413
Solutions from Sept. 9
CrosswordTough DifficultyChallenging Difficulty
Maze Puzzle: ChallengingMadlib Puzzle
Madlibs courtesy of www.madglibs.comKakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Start from the top left arrow of the maze and find your way 
out to the other arrow.
Fill in the blanks in the story to create a fun and 
entertaining tale. 

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 09.15.14
 1. Sicilian volcano
 2. Booty
 3. Director Preminger
 4. Church perch
 5. Building
 6. Disunion
 7. Learned
 8. Formicary residents
 9. Actress Arthur
10. One who enjoys inflicting pain
11. Den
12. Judith composer
13. Clothes-pins
18. Drop ___ (moon)
19. Book about Nineveh
23. Author Harte
24. Deck quartet
25. Chest or closet material
26. English architect Jones
27. Lerners partner
28. Leftover
29. Author Calvino
30. The Hunter
31. Approach
32. Coarse file
36. Horrors!
37. ER VIP
38. Yard tunneler
40. Turkish palace
41. Secret society of Naples
43. Musical composition
44. Pecuniary gain
45. ___ sapiens
48. The Thin Man dog
49. Type of gun
50. I smell ___!
51. Elisabeth of Leaving Las Vegas
52. Former Fords
53. Plaster backing
54. Clevelands lake
55. Keats creations
57. Boxers warning
58. Bentley of American Beauty
 1. Take the honey and run
 6. Large mop
10. Hit with an open hand
14. Lugged
15. Silver screen
16. Swiss river
17. In spite of
20. From ___ Z
21. Cooks in fat
22. Buenos ___
23. Life stories
24. Sighs of relief
25. Roundabout expression
32. Actress Taylor
33. City near Provo
34. Uno + due
35. Mine entrance
36. Awake and Sing! playwright
38. Mother of Hermes
39. Droop, sink
40. Display
41. Hue
42. Forebrain
46. Guadalajara gold
47. Capital of Italy
48. Yoga posture
51. Replay option
53. Seinfeld uncle
56. Direct
59. Milk source
60. Designer Gernreich
61. Knot again
62. Architectural pier
63. Repose
64. Remains of a fire 
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Falcon/Hawk: You are full of movement and have a 
strong desire to lead. Your great mental speed and focus 
should be shared with your teammates and friends. Gain 
the opportunity while the iron is hot. 
taurus
april 20may 20
Beaver: Sometimes you may feel a little insecure, but 
you are a hard worker and your desire to impress makes 
up for your self-consciousness. Try to be more open to 
ideas because you never know what you might find.
gemini
may 21june 21
Deer: Your outer personality contradicts your gentle 
appearance. You are strong and fleet of mind when the 
time calls. Your quick-witted mind is always aware of 
your surroundings. This week, dont be so timid. 
cancer
june 22july 22
Wood Pecker: You are deeply devoted to your friends, 
family members, and lover. When overly emotional, 
sometimes you tend to sacrifice yourself. Nurturing is 
valued, but try not to let others affect your sensitive side. 
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Salmon: Your personality is driven by your need to 
create and your desire to leave an impression. You are 
strong with smart instincts, but others dont know what 
to expect from you. Share some knowledge with friends.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Bear: Your outer personality is one of quiet observation; 
you categorize everything. You seek the sweetness of truth 
and teach others to accomplish the goals and dreams they 
carry. Try to be careful and not to throw caution to the wind.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Crow: You are driven by the quest to bond with another. 
Youre a highly curious creature with a remarkable 
degree of intelligence. Monitor your actions, for your 
curiosity may lead to misfortune. 
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Snake: Your actions are driven by both physical and 
emotional desires. Your natural tendency to heal 
emotionally allows you to forget the past easily. Be 
careful of what you throw away.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Snowy Owl: You are focused on understanding all of 
lifes mysteries. Your decisions are wise, and you are 
able to decipher a situation accurately, making your 
choices magical. Remember to thank your friends.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Snow Goose: You are an individual whose outer 
personality is one of quiet determination and 
resourcefulness. You are very gregarious but tend to 
nitpick, so perhaps try to forgive others for their faults.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Otter: You have been born into this lifetime to immerse 
yourself in the fountain of knowledge. You are always full 
of joy and curiosity. Try to share this happiness with the 
ones around you. 
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Wolf: You are highly intuitive and have the ability to 
attain great spiritual heights. You are a teacher and a 
pathfinder who loves to share with others what you have 
learned. Teach something new today. 
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 09.15.1415
MONDAY 9.15.14
Metronomy. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
English electronic pop band Metronomy will play the Altar 
Bar in support of their recently released fourth album, 
Love Letters. Tickets start at $16 and can be purchased 
at ticket?y.com.
TUESDAY 9.16.14
Hawthorne Heights and The Red Jumpsuit 
Apparatus. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
These titans of the screamo genre  which you loved 
at one time, dont deny it  will be wearing their broken 
hearts on their sleeves and letting you know about how 
much it hurts. Tickets start at $16 and can be purchased 
at ticket?y.com.
Willie Nelson & Family. Benedum Center. 8 p.m.
The red-headed stranger, iconic country music outlaw 
Willie Nelson will be performing from his extensive 
catalogue at the Benedum Center. Expect marijuana 
smoke clouds thicker than Snoop Dogg getting ready for 
his Dominos order to arrive. Tickets start at $42.25 and 
can be purchased at trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
WEDNESDAY 9.17.14
Panda Bear. Mr. Smalls Funhouse. 8 p.m.
Popular indie-electronic artist Panda Bear  one of the 
four animals of Animal Collective   will play Mr. Smalls. 
Expect a psychedelic trip no matter what state you arrive 
in. Tickets are $20 and can be purchased at 
ticketweb.com.
THURSDAY 9.18.14
Dangerous Beauty opening. Hunt Library, 5th ?oor. 
5 p.m.
The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation fall 
exhibition, Dangerous Beauty: Thorns, Spines, and 
Prickles, will see its of?cial opening. It features drawings, 
watercolors, and books that depict the beautiful defensive 
structures of thorns, spines, and prickles. Admission is 
free and open to the public.
Islands. Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
Canadian alt-rockers Islands   buddies with other 
Canadian alt-kings Arcade Fire and Wolf Parade   will 
be playing the Altar Bar. Expect skinny jeans and brightlycolored faux-?annels. Tickets start at $13 and can be 
purchased at ticket?y.com.
FRIDAY 9.19.14
Clemente: The Legend of 21. NightBlue Theater. 8 p.m.
This play tells the story of Pittsburgh Pirates legend 
Roberto Clemente, from his early years in Puerto Rico, 
through his 18 years with the Pirates amidst the backdrop 
of the Civil Rights Movement, and ?nally his tragic 
accident. Performances run through Sunday. Tickets 
start at $49.25 and can be purchased at trustarts.
culturaldistrict.org.
Two Trips. Heinz Hall. 7:30 p.m.
Join the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra as they travel 
through the opioid hallucinations of lovesick Hector Berlioz 
in their performance of his Symphonie fantastique. Also 
on the program is Mason Batess Rusty Air in Carolina 
and Rachmaninoffs Rhapsody on a Theme of Paganini. 
Performances continue through Sunday. Tickets start at 
$25.75 and can be purchased at trustarts.culturaldistrict.org 
UPCOMING
VIA Festival. Various Locations. Oct. 15
One of the premier events in independent music, the 
VIA Festival will feature a diverse array of artists across 
musical genres, as well as platforms for visual artists 
and other workshops. Tickets start at $70 and can be 
purchased at via2014.com.
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.
Classifieds
Visiting Professors and Staff Housing Short 
Term Furnished Suites and Apts.
www.FifthAvenueResidents.com
412-683-3333
Pittsburgh ?????
????, ???
??????????????????? ? 
www.PittsburghRealestate888.com 
Phone: 412-683-3333

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 09.15.14
Yeongwoo Hwang | Junior Photographer
Students took to the green in the Jared L. Cohon University Center 
on Saturday between 10 p.m. and 1 a.m. to try their hand at scoring 
a hole-in-one. The Late Night event included nine holes. Free snacks 
were provided to attending students.
Putt Putt in the UC.
