THE PEAK!) 
REACHED
WE HAVE
FINAL EXAMS
ARE ONLY ONE
WEEK OFF
VOL. XIX No. 32CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, MAY 19, 1925
RASSBACH AND 
AIDES PUT ON 
GLORIOUS C. W.
BHARAT ASSOC. INVITES
STUDENTS TO LAST SOCIAL
Handle Campus Week Events 
Flawlessly; Splendor of 
Pageants Pleases
MAKE NEW GYM 
IDEAL BALL ROOM
Exclusion of Non-Camegians 
Accomplished; Mardi Gras 
is Climax
Its all over, even the shouting. Six 
C. W. is relegated to the chamber of 
memories,  but many years will pass 
before Campus Week 1925 is forgot
ten. To. those on the outside there 
was not a weak link in the whole 
chain of events. Those in the know 
are sure that many homecomings will 
slip by before it is surpassedand to 
Phil Rassbach and his colleagues 
to the Campus Week Committee 
goes all the credit.
To present a coronation pageant ab
solutely unique, to transform the gym 
into a passable dancing floor, to find 
a means of furnishing adequate har
mony for three thousand people, to 
accomplish an almost exclusively 
Carnegian Mardi GrasTall that re
quired ingenuity, and labor.
The names of those who served 
the committee follow:
Phil Rassbach___Chairman in Chief
W. M. Fencil____Associate Chairman
J. M. OConnor..Assistant Chairman
Nora Willets ..........................Secretary
Dolores Myers____Assistant Secretary
G. E. Slye.............................Treasurer
H. N. Smith____Assistant Treasurer
Dorothy,, Diamond............Girls Events
Dwight Beede..............Student Council
Coronation.
Alice Nelson, chairman; Janet Mil
lie, Bill Adair, 'Cary Belle Kerr, Mil
dred Patton, Madeline Dale, Margaret 
Eckert, Harriet Merwin, Dorothy 
Connors, Don Marye, Rebecca Speers.
Sweepstakes, Women.
Margaret Taylor, chairman; Mary 
OBrien. Elizabeth Powrie, Harriet 
Richmond, Emily Fulton, Florence 
Hartman, Reibecca Speers.
County Fair, Women.
Elizabeth Wright, chairman; Mary 
OBrien, Roselyn Doyle, Betty Luft, 
Elizabeth Lesser, Francis Kiser, Mar
jory Snodgrass, Helen Perry.
Qualification Day.
Barbara White, chairman; Phoebe 
Henning, Grace . Glennon, Emily Ful
ton.
Womens Banquet.
Grace Munhall, chairman; Ellen 
Eyman, Mary Steumpfle, Esther 
Johnston.
Socretary of Women's Events 
Helen Eyster..
General iRi'anning Committee.
R. R. Riitiii, advisory chairman; 
M. R. Busier, chairman; S. S. Stark, 
John Carr, W. B. Simbole, E. G. Pier
son, M. S. Seibert.
Construction Committee.
D. K. Mims, chairman; H. A. WTeideli, John Good, Kenneth Wyant, Sid 
Forbes, Nathan Lebov, Pop -Allen, O. 
'H. Martin.
Electrical Construction Committee.
P. M. Hissom, chairman; J. S. 
Schuckert, assistant chairman; D. B. 
Beecher, J. S. Buzzard, O. W. Will, 
J. H. Joynt, W. Caven, G. LeBaron, 
John Kinghorn, E. C. Tatum, A. M. 
Harrison, R. De Pue.
Publicity Committee.
W. C. Winning, chairman; F. 'C. 
Smith, V. B. Smith, R. L. Lepper, F. 
A. Kolb, H. E. Sterling, J. C. Christ
off, W. Kimmel.
Country Fair Committee.
Francis M. McGee, chairman; Roy 
Allen, G. W. Sanner, F. M. Kalefant.
C. J. Udd, J. N. Tlllbrook, J. M. j 
Goss, Elizabeth Wright.
Musical Show Committee.
 Hubert Osbprne, O. B. Newman, i 
directors; A1 Johnson, H. Sload, V. j 
Haldine, Mat Fry, Warren Kimball, 
Madam Kearpova, Zabel Davis, Chas. 
Sehlesinger, lHarold Minor, John ConContinued on Page Four.)
I The Bharat Association, organized 
j by the Hindu students in Pittsburgh, 
will cease its activity for the year 
1924-25 with a last social, to be held 
at the Schenley High School Audi
torium, on Friday, May 22, at 8 p. m.
Mr. George Seibell, well known edi
tor and author, will speak on Worlds 
Future.. Those who have heard him 
once from the platform, will surely 
not miss this chance of hearing him 
once more on this most important 
and intricate question of the day, pre
sented in his simple, lucid, unimitable way.
A most interesting program of en
tertainment has been arranged for 
this social. More than 20 persons, 
under the guidance of Mrs. Ruth 
Sherrick will contribute to the pro
gram. An orchestra will be in attend
ance. Vocal solos, classical dancing, 
musical reading are a few amongst 
many.
The public is cordially invited to 
attend.
CAMPUS WEEK 
SHOW SCORES 
GREAT SUCCESS
I CITY COUNCIL CHANGES
NAMES OF CAMPUS STREETS
Collegiately Speaking Tri
umphs Before Big Crowd 
at Syria Mosque
MARDI GRAS RIOT OF 
C0L0RANDC0STUME
Union and Gym Taxed to 
Utmost Capacity By 
Revelers
FINE MUSIC A FEATURE
To the passerby last Friday, our 
school resembled, in fact surpassed, 
New Orleans in those gay times of 
which we have all heard. For the 
spirit of the Mardi Gras was in the 
air, and the hundreds of happy 
couples, in costumes bizarre and 
beautiful, responded to that spirit in 
a manner that made the campus re
sound with their gay laughter and 
the noise of their shuffling feetCer
tainly no one was visible who was in 
any but a happy frame of mind, for 
serious feelings were unable to with
stand the gaiety of this festive occa
sion.
The gayest of all present were the 
alumni, especially old grads, who 
abandoned all care, donned gorgeous 
garments, and proceeded to make lib
eral use of the facilities provided for 
their entertainment. Nature had 
contributed her bit to make if an evening of joy, lor the weather was all 
that could be desired, the New Gym 
and the Union floors were glassy in 
their smoothness, and the entrancing 
strains of those inimitable orches
tras, the Collegiate Imps and the 
Steel City Collegians, enthralled the 
entire assemblage.
Never before were the two dance 
floors decorated so well; aided by the 
lighting, they changed the halls into 
oases of paradise, whose very benuty 
served to prevent any possibilities of 
ones thoughts returning to this mor
tal soil, once lifted therefrom. The 
reserved alumni section in the gym 
was the scene of much handshaking 
and many affectionate renewals of 
the friendships which existed in the 
days gone by. Tn this secluded spot, 
hidden from the remainder of the 
floor by clusters of palms and ferns, 
and containing lounging places for 
the use of those alumni who cared to, 
enter, were found many grads, pleas-: 
ed beyond measure with this addition 
to the arrangements made for their 
welfare.
Many changes from last year were 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Delightful Vaudeville 
Opens Campus Work
Audience Enthusiastic Over 
Variety of Skits
ART STUDENTS WORK 
EXHIBITED BY MUSEIM
The first exhibition' of the work of 
the students of the College of Fine 
Arts ever held outside Carnegie open
ed last week in the Carnegie Insti
tute Galleries on the third floor, and 
will continue until June 1.
This exhibition is made up of'stu
dent work in the Departments of 
Painting and Illustration, Applied 
Art, Architecture, Sculpture, and 
Fine Printing. The Department of 
Painting and Illustration has eightytwo pieces of work on exhibition; the 
Department of Applied Art, fifty-five; 
the Department of Architecture, thir
ty-seven; the Department of Sculp
ture, forty-five; and the Department 
of Fine Printing, six. Most of the 
work has been done by students who 
are in school this year. The exhibit 
is being held in the galleries of the 
Department of Fine Arts, Carnegie Institute, at the invitation of the fine 
arts committee. This location gives 
the Pittsburgh public an excellent 
opportunity to observe the type of 
work which is being done in the vari
ous departments represented in the 
exhibition.
As the opening to Carnegies most 
successful Campus Week, the Vaude
ville on Thursday morning was emi
nently jfitted, meeting with enthusi
astic applause right through from the 
prologue to the closing lines of Gyp
sy Land.
Jack Gumbert chose the score for 
the prologue from Pagliacci and after 
inserting Bob Gunders words demonI strated with Matt Frey as accompan| ist, that Carnegie's music department 
! was not established in vain.
I The first act on the program, No, 
No, Brownie, a musical revue put 
! on by Theta Tau, aroused the audiI ence which crowded the Music Hall, to 
a high pitch of expectancy and cori| tributed no small share toward con
vincing the assemblage that this vauj deville was to render a Keith headj liner, a mere medieval setto by com
parison. Al Minetti and Jimmie 
Daschbaugh carried the leading roles 
I and together with the hard working 
I chorus, disclosed several new song 
j hits and some very keen burlesque.
! The stunt was written and staged by | 
j Les Beebe of the Commercial Engin
eering department and it is under[ stood that the Drama Department is 
I negotiating with Professor Rittman 
I to secure Mr. Beebe's service to fill 
J the position which Director Osborne 
; will leave vacant.
j Songs of Long Ago" were next 
! rendered in violin duet by Ida Wal| dron and Imelda Rinkenberger to 
i Carolyn Grays accompaniment, later 
! to be joined by Eva Spencer. The ef! feet was truly, exquisite, even Miss 
i Spencer surprising an audience which I 
Continued on Page Four.)
CLEVER DIRECTING 
IS CLEARLY SHOWN
Comedy, Songs and Chorus 
Make Hit at Finale Event 
of Campus Week
The Council of the City of Pitts
burgh recently passed an ordinance 
which divided what formerly was 
Woodlawn avenue, into two streets. 
The street which begins at the Wood
lawn Pharmacy on Forbes street, and 
extends to the Margaret. Morrison 
school will hereafter be known as 
Tech street, the street turning off at 
right angles to the newly named 
Tech street, arid extending to the 
property line is now Margaret Mor
rison street. Frew avenue, is the 
name of the road going through the 
park on the edge of th Campus. The 
road from the intersection of Tech 
and Margaret Morrison streets, past 
the Cut, Central Building, Industries 
Building, and into Frew avenue, is 
now Joincaire street. These changes 
are now in effect.
Comedy, interspersed yith brilliant 
settings, together with a musical 
score of pleasing qualities and a cast 
that worked in noteworthy fashion, 
triumphantly put over Collegiately 
Speaking, Campus Week musical 
comedy in its first and only presenta
tion at the Syria Mosque, Saturday 
night, with the clever directing of 
Hubert Osborne, and the arrange
ment of the dances by Calvin* King 
receiving great praise.
Obie Newman, as Augustus Caesar 
Custard, a versatile star, sang and 
dancedhis way into the heart of Ann 
Luria, southern beauty. Newman 
with his wealth of personality, and 
magnetism did much to assure the 
success of the production, as did Miss 
Lurias ability and charm and the 
sub-plots introduced by Betsy Lindsey 
in her conquest of the Sophisticated 
SophomoreEllsworth Perrin, and the 
triumph of Zabelle Davis and Harry 
Mervis over her blackmailing brother 
Herb Pole3ie. Polesie and Verner 
Haldene, the comedians of the show, 
were a howl from start to finish. 
Droll, whimsical, modern and youth
ful the two had the house in an up
roar of mirth.
The chorus worked expertly and 
looked stunning, the ballet of inter
pretative dancing was a scream, and 
the patter and golf dances were novel 
and well executed, while Warren 
Kimball made a hit in his specialty 
dance as The Toreador. Slmshine 
iS'ue sung by Newman and the Kiltie 
Quartet seemed to be the most popu
lar song, although Polesie with his 
ballad, Il like to fall in love with 
someone, but this outfit cramps my 
style," was a close rival.
Newman as an unitiated frosh falls 
in love with a southern girl at a gay 
house party at Siwash college, lead 
on by a worldly sophomore who en
joys the spice of life, and coached by 
a sophisticated Senior, a veteran of 
such affairs, Obie captures hor heart 
by his lovely southern voice. Close 
guard is kept over all by a pair of 
chaperones, Philip Rhodes Thorne, 
the husband, and Elizabeth Sowersby, 
the wife. The husband watched the 
girls and the wife watched the hus
band, so all went well.
With Custard safely taken care of, 
the sophomore is unable to withstand 
the charms of the college widow and 
the senior finds himself actually in 
love with the Broadway dancer, who 
through her brother Polesie, Is trying 
to blackmail him. From the opening 
(Continued on Page Four.)
DELTA X P FIRST IN 
SCHOLARSHIP RACE
Beta Sigma Rho Standing is 
Highest With Pledges 
Rating Included
FOR FIRST SEMESTER
After an exhausting series of re
searches through the archives of the 
recorder, followed by checks and 
counter-checks. Dean Tarbell an
nounces that Delta Chi Rho ranks 
the highest in scholarship standing 
for the first semester of 1924-25.
The fraternity Scholarship ratings 
are shown below. They have been 
figured in two ways, one with active 
members only, the other with actives 
and pledges. In making tho compu
tations, Dean Tarbell states, the new 
method adopted last fall was follow
ed, i.e., a fraternitys position is de
termined by the ratio of its total un
its to the total quality points earned 
by its members. In awarding the cup 
at the end of the year, the rating 
without pledges will bo the determi
nant:
(Continued on Page Four)
FRATERNITIES 
CALL LEADERS 
IN ACTIVITIES
Honorary Societies Pledge 
Schools Outstanding 
Men and Women
OLD MAN P. R. IS 
LAID TO REST
Respectful Plebe Procession 
Follows Old Tyrant to 
His Grave
Queen Crowned in 
Sylvan Ceremony
Mary Speers Made C. W. 
Queen Amid Regal Splendor
CLUB Room FOR WOMEN 
IS OPENED DURING C. W.
The Girls Club Room was opened 
during Campus Week, Thursday, May 
14. The room has been furnished by 
the efforts of a committee headed by 
Mortar Board which secured indi
vidual subscriptions from the students 
and donations from the Y. W. and | 
the Women's Athletic Association. 
The Club Room is another feature of | 
Campus Week which delighted alumj 
nae, and in which the students may j 
take pride.
Mr. Sollom of the Department of 
Fine Arts has helped the committee 
immensely with the plansMr. Weberman of the Colonial Art Furniture 
Company was in charge of the furni
ture, drapes, and carpets. The wo
men of Carnegie owe a great deal of 
thanks to these two men; Mr. Sollom 
for his co-operation, and Mr. Weberman for his great efforts and gener
ous cuts in prices.
The students will be able to show 
their appreciation by using and not 
misusing it. The room will be a great 
boon to the womens organization at 
Carnegie for it will give them a con
venient and comfortable place for 
their meeting, teas, and other func
tions. It will also serve as a loung
ing room for the girls who have long | 
felt the inadequency of the Recroalion Hall in Margaret Morrison.
The committee is to be congratu
lated for its work, in securing the 
furnishings for the Club Room.
Amid the leafy recesses of the 
woodland theater, like a secret of tho 
fairies revealed but once to tho eyes 
of men, In supernatural splendor and 
dreamy sylvan lure, Mary Spoors, the 
Queen of Campus Week, tlio majestic 
Thistle surrounded by many flowers 
from flplds and earth released to fro
lic, received the crown of beauty.
A crowd transported by tho mystic 
music, surrounded the amphitheater, 
where lights from hidden sources 
played upon the1 scene. At mid-night 
all was ready, the forest people gath
ered to the throne, first nymphs and 
bugs prepared the way, dancing in 
a happy care-free manner, then dis
appeared in the walls of darkness, 
as mighlier than they approached.
Sprites and fairies in weird dance 
appeared, Pan himself came to give 
his spirit to the festival. These fad
ed away as the flowers, fifteen in 
number advanced, and from their 
midst the Queen ascended the throne.
With the Blue Moon shining, a 
crown of flowers was placed on her 
queenly head. Then all withdrew, the 
lights faded, darkness reigned once 
more.
Mary, was ruler of the Campus. 
The long awaited event was over, the 
impressions seemed as from a dream. 
A new type of coronation had been 
attempted and success had crowned 
the efforts.
Last Friday afternoon the honorary 
fraternities of Carnegie made their 
annual call, in the Carnoglo Bowl. 
Preceding the call tho Plebes Quali
fication Exercises took place.
The parade of the Plebes, lod by 
the Kiltie Band, formed in front of 
the Central building, and thence pro
ceeded to tho Carnegie Bowl. The 
black-robed mourners, followed by 
the Plebe girls and men, wended their 
way slowly across the Campus to the 
moving strains of Chopin's Funeral 
March.
After the eoflin had boon lowered 
into the gx*aVe, the sorrowing Plobes 
filed slowly past, each ono casting a 
Plebe cup or armband, etc., on tho 
funeral pyre. Walt Rogers, as tho 
officiating minister, preached a fit
ting funeral sermon.
Mike Kallfolz formally welcomed 
tho Plebes Into tho Carnegie Clan, 
and Jack Horner made the response 
for tho class of '2S. At this time, 
according to the Carneglo tradition, 
another link, representing tho class 
of '28, was added to the ever-growing 
Carneglo chain.
Ten honorary fraternities, Including 
two womens honorarles, cullod their 
pledges for next yoar at the Call Day 
exercises. The men and women 
called are in genoral tho students 
who iiavo distinguished thomselvos 
in activities and scholarship during 
the past year.
Those called by Mortarboard are: 
Phoobo Henning, Harriot Morwln, 
Allco Nelson, Robocca Pontius, Edith 
Warron, and Barbara White.
Dragon, tho mens Son lor honorary 
called, Dwight Boodo, Joo Christoff, 
Francis Cook, Ray Gill, Mlko Good
win, Ben Krlstof, Georgo Murphy, 
Caroy Proctor, Red OConnor, Josoph 
Raddin, Russoll Roller, Earl Wheeler, 
Carl Winning, Lloyd Yoder.
Delta Skull, tho Junior class honor
ary, called tho following pledgQHt 
John J. Carr. Sidney Forbos, Wnlly 
Lynch, Gtiorgo P. McKinney, Nelson 
P. Mitchell, Everett C. Plummor, 
Lyle R. Sheppard, .lames F. Ternoy, 
Clarence J. lldd.
Tho Druids called tho following 
mon from tho present Proshman 
class. B. M. Ado, F. W: Cowan, I. I*. 
Crawford, C. F. Dickinson, C. Horn* 
hostel, R. C. King, IT. S. Monroe, M. 
R. Perry, Ai J. Sebastian, IT. C. 
Sclmughcney, M. W. Stump.
Pi Sigma Tau called the following 
(Continued on Pa to Four.)
ELECTRICAL BANQUET
AT FORT PITT THURSDAY
The annual /banquet of the Elec
trical Engineers will be held Thurs
day night in tho Fort Pitt. Hotel.
A menu copious, palatable, and sat
isfying, has been prepared, and from 
that point success is assured. Dull 
moments will bo as rare as favors are 
plentiful, and since all the large Elec
trical concerns have donated valu
able remembrances, no ono will ever 
be ablo to forgot the last and crown
ing achievement of tho department 
for the year.
Differing from other affairs of this 
type, this will not be a continual run 
of speeches, and dry talks. Mono
logues, by masters of the art, are 
scheduled. Music by a collegiate or
chestra. and songs by a fanfous quar
tet, will make the time pass in an 
enjoyable manner.
Tickets are on sale now, and they 
can be obtained from the various 
salesmen in the different sections of 
the classes. Freshmen desiring to go 
should apply to the department of
fice for the desired tickets.
S. I. OWENS TO LEAD 
PLAID-CLAD KILTIES
Garber's Successful Regime 
Ends at Band Banquet; 
Elect Officers
CERUTTI IS BUS. MGR.
BUCKNELL NINE 
DEFEATED BY 
TARTANS, 14-8
Murphy, Conqueror of Penn 
State, Lasts Only Two 
Innings Here
BASTIAN HAS BIG 
DAY IN HITTING
Game Marked By Good and 
Poor Fielding on Part of 
Both Teams
HENDERSON HALL TOPS 
DORM SCHOLASTIC LIST
After a season far more auccosaful 
than ovon tho moBt optimistic would 
havo dared to predict, tho Carnegie 
Kiltie Band brought its activities to 
an official closo for tho yoar at. a ban
quet held In tho Ruskln Apartments 
last Thursday night, and during 
whoso epicurean fostlvitios S. 1. Ow
ens, was chosen manager of tho hand 
for the coming yoar, with Ed. CoruttI 
as business manager, Howard Moredith, secretary, and 0. A. Elehonlaub, 
librarian.
These mon aro not only to bo com
plimented upon rocolving those posi
tions with tho attondant honor and 
responsibility, but also upon their 
sterling oftortH on behalf of tho hand 
in tho past.
Although the band has always boon 
one of Carnoglo's foremost and host 
known features, It bus never come to 
tho fora quite as markedly an during 
the pant year. Under Dave Garber's 
management, tho organisation has 
not moroly prospered but It has gain
ed renown for Itself and for tho 
school.
Tho Klll.los have boon bagor to help 
on all occasions and did much to Ic'oop 
tho old Carnoglo spirit wound up lo 
Its highest pitch at ail athletic 
events.
Furthermore, tho band made Ills 
first Itinerary, visiting Johnstown, 
Harrisburg, Philadelphia, arid Now 
York, whore II. not only mot with 
much acclaim but lias boon eagerly 
requested 10 return next yoar. A 
woolc was spent al, the Schenley thea
ter, and Kohnywood was visited.
The credit is largely duo to Dave 
Garber and tho hearty co-operation 
of Mr. Tlibrook and tho Alumni Of(Contlnuod on Pago Four.)
PLAY TO BE GIVEN BY 
DRAMATS THIS WEEK
MUSICAL CLUBS TO HOLD
BANQUET AT P. A. A. MAY 23
Next Saturday night. May 28, the 
Musical Clubs will hold their annual' 
banquet in the ball room of the 
Pittsburgh Athletic Association. At 
this time officers for the coming 
year will be elected and important 
changes in the constitution will be 
made. This banquet is open to 
each member of the Musical Clubs 
and it will bring-to a close the most 
successful season in the clubs his
tory.
A modern comedy, entitled Smart 
Alec and Amaryllis and written by 
Caroll Fitzhugli, will be presented by 
th<3 Drama Department, May 20, 22, 
23, 25, and 26. A matinee will also 
be given Friday afternoon at 4:00.
The author, Mr. Fitzhugli, is . a 
member of a very prominent family 
in Pittsburgh. He is very much inter
ested in the play and as a result has 
been co-operating with Professor 
Wallace in the staging of it.
The comedy has never been played 
before, but a play entitled The Lion
ess" written by the same author was 
very successful when It was staged 
in the Little Theater last year. The 
play that Is to be given next week 
Is a rather clever and subtle comedy 
played on a highway in Western 
Pennsylvania.
A strong cast made up mostly of 
upperclassmen will take part in the 
play. The principal parts are taken 
by Hardle Albright, Mary Brown, and 
Janes Milljs. Others who have prom
inent parts are Elizabeth Sowersby, 
Ida Kraus, Mary Power. Verner Halden, and Hairy Mervis. This will be 
the last chance to see the seniors 
and everyone is urged to be present.
Several one act plays will be given 
in the next few weeks with an addi
tional play by the freshmen in the 
Silver Theater.
Scholastic ratings for the Mens 
Dormitories for the First Semester 
of 1924-25 are shown below. A dormi
torys position is determined by the 
ratio of the total units carried by its 
residents to the total quality points 
earned.
Following are the eligibility rules, 
recommended by the Dormitory Coun
cil, governing the competition:
1. All students registered in de
gree courses living in the dormitories 
shall constitute membership for the 
competition.
2. Each dormitory is entitled to 
the grades of the students who have 
officially received permission to oc
cupy part of or a whole iom in that 
dormitory any time prevl-tus to the 
mid-term examinations or /atlngs.
3. If a student migrates from one 
dormitory to another during a semes
ter, his grades will not migrate, but 
they shall be counted for the initial 
dormitory.
Henderson Hall ........................... 3.39
Scobell Hall ................................. 3.31
Boss Hall ....................................... 3.25
Welch Hall ................................... 3.13
McGill Hall ................................... 3.12
Kappa Sigma Wins 
Sweepstakes Trophy
Forbes Hall, D.T.D. and Arts 
Girls Capture Prizes
CITMAS CLUB PLANS DINNER
AT RUSKIN APTS. MAY 22 t
The Cltmas Club will hold a din' 
ner and meeting at tho Ituskln Apart! 
ment, Friday. May 22, al; U:00 p. niThe commlttoe has arranged a spe-j 
oliti program for the occasion In 
which Is included the election of of. j 
fleers for the next.year. All master 
masons are Invited to attend.
MILDRED TOOGOOD WINS
ANOTHER FIRST MENTION
Miss Mildred M. Toogood, of 1543 j 
Lowrle street, North Side, a senior 
in the Department of Interior Decor
ation at Carnegie, '.von First Mention 
in a national competition conducted i 
recently by the Beaux-Arts Institute j 
of Design in New York -City. De-j 
signs were submitted in the contest j 
by com yeti tors from the leading art I 
schools throughout the country.
Friday morning, May 15, turned out 
to be an Ideal morning for tho sweep
stakes and before a large and excited 
group of spectators who cheered on 
the contestants, tho girls and inter-! 
fraternlty sweepstakes of the Sixth 
Campus Week were held. Forbes 
Hall won the girls sulky race cup 
while the Arts School commuters, 
in white flowing satin costumes, took 
the prize for the:1)est costumes. In 
the Interfraternit.y Sweepstakes, Kap
pa Sigma Fraternity for the third 
consecutive year won the speed cup. 
Delta Tau Delta captured the design 
trophy.
At 9:00 oclock, in front of the Cen
tral Building, the girls' sulky race be
gan. Forbes Hall tear composed of 
Grace Glennon and Ellen Medrock, 
dressed as jockeys, took the lead at 
the beginning of tlje race and main
tained it to the end of the course, 
M. M, Commuters, team, in white 
knickers nnd plaid jackets, came in 
second and Forbes Street team, cos
tumed In overalls, were third. The 
Art. School Commuters team of Lo* 
vonlo Osborne and Harriet Richmond, 
won silver vanity eases for tho bowl: 
costumes,
Previous to the girls raco, the In* 
lorfraternlty speed boats were lined 
up In front of the Arts Schol and 
then taken to Machinery Hall and 
weighed In. A I, the bottom of Mar
garet Morrison street, the ears as
sumed l.helr respective places and Ihe 
judges for design, Prof. Leeds, Prof, 
Ashe, and Prof. Ambrose chose the 
Delta Tau Delta car for first place, 
Delta Mu, second, Alpha Tau Omega, 
third, and Pi Kappa Alpha, fourth. 
The winner of the design cup was a 
beautiful yellow car trimmed In 
brown. The radiator was highly pol
ished nickel and the body shaped 
(Continued on P^ge Four.)
Playing ono of their best games of 
the season, the Plaid diamond squad 
defeated Bucknell last Friday after
noon at Forbes Field, to tho tune of 
14-S. So far as scoring goes, Carne
gie (lid it in almost every inning, get
ting two in tho first, three in the 
third, four in the fourth, ono in the 
fifth, threo in the sixth, and one in 
tho seventh. The best part of Buoknells scoring occurred in the latter 
part of the game. In each inning 
Carneglo had the same procedure, llvo 
or six men batted and a couplo dash
ed around to score. Each team lost 
a few runpers on poor base coaching 
and poor judgment on tho part of tho 
men themselves.
Murphy, starting pitcher for Buck
nell, stuck to the box for two innings, 
long enough to give. Carnoglo four 
lilts and two runs out of about six 
nion on bases, and gave way to Mosser to admit defeat for the first, tlmo 
this season. Just Wednesday after
noon Bucknell whipped Ponn State,
12 to 4, while Carnoglo had already 
gone to an oven break With tho same 
club.
Mosse'r, In Ills turn on tho mound, 
las tod only one inning, passing out 
four nioro hits and sending tlvroo 
runners across I ho plate. Kosney, 
going In in tho fourth, completed the 
game, still against Conrad, tho SUIboa startor, and allowed nlno hits 
In his llvo Innings.
Paul Conrad, Carnoglo captain, 
worked In his usual form, giving 13 
liltsonly nlno of thorn singles -nnd 
fanning eight men and passing two, 
both In the same Inning, lie orrod 
only oiico, in showing his anxioty to 
throw tho ball to (lie basemen In at
tempts to trap tho run nor.
Max Bastion faced Bucknolls pitch
ers live tlmoB nnd baugod out a hit 
each time. Once, early In tho game, 
ho mhdiHropotod a ooaolior's signal 
and wan put out at third, In attempt 
to got the homer lie should have had.
While the game was a hit sllp-shod, 
tho victory stands out ovon more, by 
virtue of the fact tjiat tho Bucknell 
team had only boon beaten onob be
fore, In an early season game,
The score:
Carnegie TuchAM.R.H.P.A*
Christoff If ___. I41
Lynch 3 ............. n1121
Newman 1 ......... r>22::>
Vogt s................ n2211
Dlffley :: ............. r.111)0
Bastan m ......... 52500
McClelland 2 ... r,2300
0100
Shrlvor r ........... 0n000
Conrad p ..........2020
0000
.1417275
BucknellAb.R.17P.A.-------------------~___
Tuck -s ............... 40202
McKenzie m, 50010
F. Goodwin 3 ..5114.3
1110
0001
Quinn r ..............52200
Goodwin 1 ........524111
011Nicklas 2 ........... 40112
0001Kesney p ..........2113
S132414
,!'Ryan batted for Balir in ninth.
Rucknell ........ 0 1 0 0 1 3 0 1 28
Car. Tech ... 2 0 3 4 1 3 1 0 *14
ErrorsVogt 2, Conrad, Bastan! 
(Continued on Page Four.)
HUBERT OSBORNE WILL 
NOT RETURN NEXT YEAR
Hubert. Osborne, member of I ho 
faculty of the Drama Departmenl, 
nnd director of Collegiately Speaking, 
will not return to Carnegie Tech 
next year. He has been appointed 
on I THE faculty at Yale, and will work 
wii.li George P, 8, Baker, In Drama al. 
that school.
Mr, Osborne has boon al; Carnoglo 
Tech for the past six years. During 
that time ho has written several 
plays, which have been produced 
around school. They aro: Thy Puppet Master, Song, of Solomon, Rita 
Coventry, Llfo and Death of Wm, 
Khakospoare, and tho Blue Bandana, 
which was presented al; Campus 
Week last year,
Me Is one of the most popular mem
bers of the Drama faculty with the 
students, as well as being a wonder
ful dramatic producer. Ills work on 
the Campus Week show was largely 
responsible for the success of the per
formance. As he was asked by the 
student committee to produce it, it 
(Continued on Page Four.)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 19, 1925
Carnegie jfean
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carneglo institute of 
Technology under the supervision o the Student Council.
Entered In the PoBtoillce of Pittsburgh a second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH.....................................-............................................Schonloy 9122
A880GIATE EDITORS 
F. D. ROSSINI A. E. KROGII _________E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF 
L. H. Harris A. F. Carnon R. R. Sltzlor_________D. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS.................................................................................Schenley 9102
NEW8 EDITORS
W. WINNING .........................................................................................Schenley 9070
V. B, SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin 5547-.J
ALUMNI EDITOR
J. M. GOSS..................................................................................................Schenley 9180
REPORTERS
R. L. Loppor, M. HollInHboad, M. Dutt, E. Tallmadgo, M. Tucker, It. Hand, 
M. Cohen, S. Well, F. L. Grant, E. Row, II. L. Myers, L. V. Twohlg, F. Finn,
F. A. Kolb, A. V. Norn, A. WIngold, L. Kelly, M. Stump, M. Nuttall, W. Klmmel, It. M. Pew, F. O. Wood, C. Nou, C. Ilurtung.________________________________
ATHLETIC EDITOR
,J. CHRISTOFF ........................................................................................Schonloy 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS
Margaret McFall, J. F, Harris, J. A. C. Foller, C. F. McWilliams, D. M. Da
vid sou, H. Krlstof. J. 11. Bracken._________________________
 BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M, GIBSON..........................................................................................Schonloy 9211
N. C. WESER, Assistant.......................................................................Schenley 9122
ADVERTISING MANAGER
GEORGE H. CARL...............................................................................Schonloy 0.TJ3-M
CIRCULATION MANAGER 
F>. MOSKOVITZ ........................................................................................Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS
J. W. Metro, A. Grodnor, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauorle, J. P. 
Strlzak, Lois Snyder, A. Porroton, B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, H. Kandell, A. C. 
Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. GrJbble, Gladys Reynolds, W. A. Bornardl.________
The Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up. ______________________________________
Tho Tartan wolcomes all communications of student interest, if signed.
Signature will bo withheld If desired. All news items must bo in the student
post ofllce before 4: 10 Thursday. _____________________________________________
Tartan OillcoRoom 12, Industries Building. Olllce hoursDally 12:30- 
1:20.___________________________________________________________________________________
CAMPUS WEEK
Last Saturday night saw tho end ol! whali we believe to have 
been one of the best planned and most; enjoyed jUumpus Weeks which 
we have ever attended. Up until the last night, the weather left 
nothing to be desired;; l;he, events were run oil! in good order; and 
there were Jiew if any disagreeable incidents to mar the inemory ol: 
the annual spring celebration.
Without calling attention to any particular events, it is our 
impression that the number attending the different functions was 
greater than in. any previous year; the number ol! alumni returning 
has not yet been obtained, but it will probably surpass that oJ! any 
othor Campus Week. And tho number ol! returning alumni, as well 
as the number attending the various events is, for Campus Week, 
the test oil the pudding. Campus Weok will only grow as it attracts 
more alumni back, and interests more people in Carnegie Tech in a 
wholesome manner.
The committee ol! the Sixth Campus Week, headed by Phil liassbacll, cannot; be enough commended for the manner in which its work 
was done. I I! Campus Week improves each year as it lias done this 
year, we never need fear that it will die out, or need be curtailed.
We feel that every member of the faculty was satisfied with 
Campus Week this year, and now, that it is but a memory, wo may 
look foreward to the next Campus Week; as originated at Carnegie 
Tech, will always be a credit to the school; ;and we may Ieel sure 
that those students who are finishing; their college work this year will 
go out into the world with a deeper l!eeling of loyalty for Carnegie 
Tech because of the Campus Week which has .just passed.
THE CATHEDRAL OF LEARNING
We have nover before commented upon the University of Pitts
burghs now project, the fifty-two story bunding; not through any 
disparaging feeling, but simply because we had not yet crystallized 
our own opinion upon it. But, when considering it from a purely 
unselfish attitude, no one can help admiring the bold and far slighted 
plan.
The use of high buildings for our universities situated in big 
cities where property values aro excessively high was bound to come 
some time, and we may all feel proud that it was a. school in Pitts
burgh which was the pioneer in the movement, not only in the United 
States, but in the world, The city of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Tech and 
I lie University of Pittsburgh aro fast bound together with ties of 
mutual intorosl ; nothing can bo advantageous to one without in 
Home measure benefit ting the others. And we may fool that tho 
Cathedral of I (earning will, in some manner, help Carnegie Tech, as 
woll as tho City and University.
Carnegie and Pitt have separate functions in the fields of educa
tion. Each year those few courses in which they overlap are being 
cut in number due to the happy oo operation of tho two faculties, 
and we may expect, at a not too future date, that there will be no 
duplication whatsoever in their respective curriculum.' The world 
needs its dentists, its doctors, its pharmacists and its lawyers; as well 
as it needs its artists, and its engineers, and it is only reasonable to 
suppose that the best men in each line will be turned out at those 
schools which specialize in that particular course, as Carnegie does in 
engineering, and Pitt-does in dentistry.
As to the socialogical problems connected with the project, they 
do not concern, us. Whether Pittsburgh needs facilities for twelve 
thousand more students; whether the facilities in one building \vilI 
be adequate to care for them; what effect this will have on the school 
spirit and the life of the individual students; all these were worked 
out by the far-sighted men who planned the whole thing, and their 
judgment is final.
But we cannot, however, pass without comment on the boldness 
of the idea of raising the immense amount of money necessary by 
subscription in and around Pittsburgh; we must admire the stand the 
planners took when they decided upon this type of structure, which 
they knew would be met with jibes and sneers, ii! not actual hostile 
opposition; and we must congratulate the University ot! Pittsburgh 
in having men with vision enough to dare dream of what we believe 
will be an epoch making innovation in the plan of the modern uni
versity situated in a large city.
Good luck, Pitt.
! --------:
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, MAY 19 
Tennis-Plebes vs. Wilkinsbnrg High
Varsity,vs. Bucknell................................2:80, Campus Courts
BaseballPlebes vs. Shadyside...........:...........................At Shadysidc
TjpDNESDAY, MAY 20
Smart Alec and Amaryllis"....................8:30 P. M,, Little Theater
THURSDAY, MAY ill
Baseball* -Grove City................................................Forbos Ifteltl
TennisSyracuse.......................................................At Svraouse, N. Y.
FRIDAY, MAY 22
TennisUnion College.......................................At Schenectady, N. Y.
Smart Alec and Amaryllis....................1:00 P. VI.. Little Theater
Smart Alee and Amaryllis....................8:80 P. M., Little Theater
SATURDAY, MAY 2:1
BaseballBethany.........................................................At Forbes Field
TrackPitt InteroollegiatesVarsity and Plebes........Schenley Oval
TennisNew York University..........................................At New York
Smart Alec and Amaryllis....................8:30 P. M\, Little Theater
MONDAY, MAY 25
Smart Alec and Amaryllis*...................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
TUESDAY, MAY 20
BaseballSt. Bona.venture ........................3:30 P. M., Forbes Field
Smart Alec and Amaryllis....................8:30 P. M.. Little Theater
WEDNESDAY, MAY 27 
(TennisVarsity vs. Pitt
Plebes vs. Pitt Freshmen...............................P. A. A. Courts
FRIDAY, MAY 29
Tennis\ arsity vs. AY. & J..................................2:30, Campus Courts
Plebes vs. Grafton High..........................................At Grafton
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By Leslie P. Beebe
1. The French Debt to tho United 
Statco.
2. Senator Borah on tho World 
Court.
Lloyd Yoder Promises Sane Policy, Closer
Contact With Faculty, As Council President
After much talking and many 
words puHidng on ail sides, the French 
have indicated their desire to discuss 
in a concrete way tho payment of 
their debt to the United State, a 
matter of 000,000,000 with interest
charge ranging close to another bil
lion. The caujjo for this new decision 
is that she finds she cannot go farthor without doing it. Her credit is 
exhausted, her finance are In a bad 
way, and thus negotiations will have 
to be started. The French people 
thoroughly believe that they shouldn't 
pay PTATK debt, that the war was 
fouglit on their soil and that their 
resources being so small, the Allies 
should cancel the obligation. This is 
not a mere feeling but a deep seated 
conviction. It appears then that 
even after negotiation are complet
ed, many troubles and difficulties aro 
likely to follow.
!K to tho details of the negotia
tions, they are not known as yet. 
France wants the negotiations in 
Paris, free from the fluctuating pub
lic sentiment of this country and 
where the problems can be discussed 
al. first hand. Probably It will result 
in the debt commission coming to the 
States for the conference. It is more 
than probable that France will want 
us to take a share of the German re
parations under the Dawes Plan, for 
example, to accept one-third each 
yoar from tiie country across the 
Rhine.
France does not want to pay her 
debt, in fact does not believe that 
she should. Here lies one of the 
grave difficulties. Tr by diplomatic 
bargaining she should inveigle us in
to accepting a portion of the German 
reparations, as she has England, then 
we would be tied up irreparably in 
European questions and if Germany 
does not pay, the United States and 
England, would be forced to step in 
and help France. France still has 
diplomats of the old school.
Mr. Rorah, Senator from Idaho, and 
Chairman of the Committee on For
eign Relations, in a speech before the 
Unitarian Laymans League in Bos
ton, declared the World Court to bo 
very base in principal and a mere 
adjunct to the League.
Tho Senator shows his intuitive 
reasoning on tho ono hand and his 
lack of international point of view on 
the othor. There is no doubt; that 
if wo go into the Court, it will ho 
Just tho same as if we were in tho 
League, it makes no difference what 
an international body is called, if wo 
delegate to them powers, wo aro 
bound to lose some sovereignty by 
it, be it tho Lenguo, Hague Tribunal, 
or Court. Call tho body by any name, 
It Is tho spirit, and the attitude that 
dotermlnos Its K)RRCDD and force, not 
Hu terminology. To this extent Mr, 
Borah is wise.
But whore tho Senator falls in his 
Judgment, is In stating that we can 
llvo by ourselves alone, and need not 
mingle in International affairs. If 
anything In those last few years has 
boon proven, It. Is Just this, that Amer
ica in a part of tho whole, an Integral 
part, and what; affects the rest affects 
us, possibly not as quickly or to the 
sumo dogroo hut nffoots us Jhst tho 
same. Then, ir this bo so, why not 
got in first; and help to determine tho 
conditions that we have to clean up.
SCHENLEY THEATER.
Popular stars hi excellent; picturos 
are to head the programs this week, 
starting tomorrow, in the Schenley 
theater, a high class and entertain
ing group of attractions having been 
booked by General Manager Harry 
Davis. On Monday, Tuesday and 
Wednesday, the feature will be the 
Universal "Jewel production. Dan
gerous Innocence, in which Laura 
La Plante and Eugene OBrien are 
co-starred. Thursday, Friday and 
Saturday will bring the presentation 
of The Lighthouse by the 'S'ea, fea
turing Rin-Tin-Tin, the "wonder dog. 
An extra attraction on the program 
throughout the week will be the Eight 
Krushinski Brothers Orchestra, the 
only known organization of its kind 
in America. The program will be 
completely changed on Thursday and 
each bill will have numerous short 
subjects such as comedies, news films 
and novelty reels.
"Dangerous Innocence is an adap
tation of Pamela Wynnes widely 
read novel, Anns An Idiot. The 
plot of Dangerous Innocence cen
ters about Ann Church, aged 19, but 
looking 14, who sails from England 
to join her parents in Bombay. Later 
she tells her real age and has her 
childish tresses bobbed.
"The Lighthouse By The Sen" is 
a Warner Brothers production adapt
ed from the fampus speaking stage 
play of tho same name by Owon Da
vis. The story concerns Albert Dorn, 
a young I'lolginn, shipwrecked off the 
coast of Maine, who would have per
ished had it not boon for his dog, 
Rin-Tin-Tin. After an exciting battle 
with a man-eating shark, Rln-TinTln 
succeeds In getting Dorn to the beach 
whore Flora Gale, daughter of Caleb 
Gale, lighthouse keeper finds him. The 
Eight Krushinski Brothers are all ac
tually from one family.
LETTER AWARDED TO HEAD
CHEERLEADER. AL MINETTI
A sane administration, absolutely 
dovold of dogmatism, absolutely de
void of radicalism, working consci
entiously for tho good of Carnogie 
and the student body, is tho promise 
of Lloyd Bull Yoder, newly elected 
president of the Student Council. Yo
der sanely refuses to outline definite 
policies, realizing that only the con
tingencies of tho moment can deter
mine the decisions of a fair executive. 
It is certain that he will seek the ad
vice of those competent to advise, on 
all major problems, but will neverthe
less bo master of the final action.
Bull" hopes to bring about the fol
lowing reforms or Improvements. He
wants a better and more definite un-, 
derstandlng with the administration, I 
to he brought about by co-operative | 
measures rather than by any suggesj 
tion of coercion. 1-Ie feels that 
eligibility ratings should be deter
mined both at the beginning of the 
semester and at mid-semesters. He 
hopes to make the awarding of extra
curricular activity positions more 
competitive, fostering more general 
interest in these affairs; and, along 
the same lines, to break up any 
cliques or social systems not condu
cive to the solidity of the student 
opinion. He is pleased with the pres
ent recognition of the ability of dor
mitory and non-degree men, and be
lieves this attitude will promote the 
important factor known as Carnegie 
Spirit.
One of the most mooted points is 
that of general assemblies. Lloyd 
hopes to arrive at the happy medium 
a correct proportion of amusement 
and more serious subjects, in the pre
paration of programs. Class, rather 
than department activity is his idea 
of the proper development in a school 
of our type. He views with favor the 
resumption of secret banquets.
The students guard against the ten
dency to emphasize social activities, 
in Yoders opinion. The past year 
was almost too pretentious in this 
direction.
ARTS PLAYS
HER HUSBANDS WIFE.
Al Minette. head cheerleader, was 
awarded a letter and sweater at the 
meeting of the Student Council in 
"PPfeciaMon of his services of the 
past year.
At tho next meeting the head 
'heerleader and business manager of 
j the cheerleaders organisation will 
he appointed by the Student Council.
We all guessed something was up 
when the waiting lines for the Arts 
theater grew longer and longer dur
ing the first performance of her Hus
bands Wife, and tickets became 
scarcer and scarcer. Monday night, 
for the first  time in eleven years, 
Cap reported, every ticket holder 
came and no one in the line got in 
at all! Whereat we all said with 
one voice, Ossy would! We expect
ed him to do something record break
ing for his last Tech production, re
membering the many brilliant and 
beautiful productions for which he 
has ben responsible during his five 
years here. Everyman, the Song of 
Songs, Pelleas and Melisande, and 
this year, Anne Peddersdotterwhat, 
after all these, would Mr. Osborne 
choose to give us for a final sensa
tion? He chose quite a futile and outof-date comedy. And with no more 
of a vehicle than that he broke the 
Arts Theater record for full attend
ance.
The plav being utter trash, and 
out of date at that, I shall proceed 
to review the director, who being one 
of those rare persons with a streak of 
sheer genius, is far more worth dis
cussing than the play.
The essential quality of Mr. Os
bornes work is his unfailing fresh
ness of approach. Somehow he man
ages to keep his mind so clear of 
preconceived ideas, of what other 
people have said and written and 
thought on every subject, and of all 
the rulesand conventions whereby 
the mass mind endeavors to enforce 
its own mediocrity, that he sees each 
situation vividly. Therefore when he 
decides to produce a play he does 
with it something that is at once 
startling and inevitable. Furthermore, 
working as he does by audacity and 
Hashes of creative Insight, he gets 
from his cast and production work
ers a co-operation which is at once 
individual, and in' accord with his 
shaping idea.
This play may serve as illustration. 
Why tho success of a silly play? 
First, Mr. Osborno perceived that we 
are at tho end of a rather heavy
season of plays that lmvo literary
merit, involving real thought and feel
ing on tho part of actors and audi
ence. Moreover, most of them have
been costume plays, demanding of us 
understanding of timos othor than 
our own. Finally, It is spring. Wo 
are tired of boing serious and Intelli
gent; woro all for Hinging our winter 
garment; ol' ropontanco in tho mood 
of Omar. Thoroforo, Mr. Osborne 
gives us a bubble of a play; no depth, 
but Iridescont and insolent;. Of 
coufso we 1 Ike it.
Tho play itself is dated Victorian 
stuff. The Impossibly silly wife, tho 
omniscont, bachelor uncle, and tho 
woman who suddenly makes horself 
attractive: these wore the stock in 
trade of the serious playwright of the 
nineties. If it had been given in 
period, seriously as written, a modern 
audience would have gagged over it. 
But; trust Mr. Osborne. He sets a 
frivolous Frenchy interior pleasinc to 
the eye, gives his leads to a couple 
of drls (more than pleasing to the 
eye) who have not only acting ability 
but the rarer quality of clothes sense, 
develops a cast who can create an at
mosphere of the smart set and light 
repartee, cuts the play judiciously; 
and behold, we have a comedy that 
fizzes and sparkles like champagne, 
and a line of people all around the 
hall waiting two hours and not get
ting in.
This production has a legitimate 
place in a serious Arts theater. In 
all the fun there is a bit of truth that 
has a sting, and in all the frivolity 
th^re is a touch of arresting beauty.
To the cast much credit is due. 
Marion Beeson played with skill the 
impossible young wife, keeping just on 
the right side of serious characteriza
tion. Anna Luria had an admirable 
lightness of touch throughout and yet 
stirrpcl the audience to sineere onio1^ The Chatter Box j
ARIELA MYSTIFICATION.
The. creative instinct has been, as 
far as we know, practically identified 
with1 self-expression. In other 
words, an artists work is the clari
fied expression of his personality, his 
being, and his experience.
A reviewer of Ariel in the Chatter 
Box last week, confesed to an admir
ation, possibly a love, for the created 
work of Percy Bysshe Shelley. With 
this sense, or apprehension, of Beau
ty (If she understands the term) she 
was confronted, in spite of the kindly 
warning of a friend, with a Life of 
Shelley, giving in exquisite detail the 
data of his personal experiences for 
twenty-nine years. From this Life 
she concludes (and this is the meat 
of her review) that it was of a na
ture best, -in Samuel Butlers terms, 
shut up and kept dark. She uses 
the word disgust, though she gives 
It wings and it soars into pity, to 
designate the emotion that her read
ing of his life called forth.
We suggest the impossibility of 
Beauty rising, like the Phoenix, from 
the Egg of Ugliness, Weakness, or 
any other associated malady. If the 
beauty in the poetry of Shelley is 
such as to deserve the reverence of 
lovers of poetry, it will be found, we 
believe, upon a generous adaptation 
of the mind to a scale of living 
necessarily above the natural com
prehension of the indifferent, that 
his Life also reflects, in an even rich
er measure, the same devout adher
ence to the Ideal.
The reviewer quotes the very inter
esting and naive requirements which 
her friend made for the life of a poet 
of Shelleys calibre.
He should have lived in perfect 
harmony with the rest of the world. 
What world? The world of social 
Teas? Of poison-gas Warfare? Of 
indecent Dogma? Or of pig-headed 
and barren Convention? Shelley had 
(i world, sprung from the wealth of 
his own idealism, in which the aver
age person would tremble to live, as 
they will tremble in heaven, so great 
were its demands upon the vision of 
the senses. As a student he had the 
superb faith to vow: "I swear to be 
just and wise and free, if such power 
in me lies . . . T swear to dedicate 
my whole life to the worship of 
Beauty!
Ho should liavo been a man of firm 
religious beliefs. This demand is as 
nearly Insane as a generous ignorance 
of past creative activity will permit 
it; to bo. Wo make no point of Re
ligion, but the major poets have 
somehow eluded the usual Heaven.
Her third demand is the most wo
manly and tho most absurdfaithful
ness throughout "life to a single love. 
At an early age Christ gave the world 
his estimate of Womans relative 
position in his life. Dante transform
ed Beatrice from the Actual to an 
Idea, thereby preserving the scene of 
his first: passion intact for future re
ference. Shakbspeare must have 
been a dolt: he was a bourgeois. 
Keats died before he could grow 
weary. And the fiery poet, Villon,
tion in the one poignant scene where 
Emily realizes her unattractivenessWhen a woman makes up her mind 
shes going to be an old maid, she 
sort of deteriorates. Dickey made 
high comedy of the underwritten part 
of the uncle. Resley played an en
dearingly natural straight juvenile. 
And Thornes drunk was perfect! 
Even the servants were admirable 
bits. Weinblatts genial old darkey 
butler was a thing to chuckle over. 
Next to the cast, one thanks Bill 
Adair for catching the mood of the 
production in the charming set and 
costumes he designed.
To return to the director. It is of 
course a tremendous testimony to the 
significance of our School of Drama 
that. Yale University is taking Hubert 
Osborne from us. We appreciate the 
compliment as much as we deplore 
the loss.
AT.T.EN GREGORY.
MECH. ENG. DEPT. MAKES 
BEARING METAL TESTS
The Department of Mechanical En
gineering is at present carrying on in 
the Mechanical Laboratory, Room 12, 
M. H, a number of tests on different 
bearing metals.
The metals are tested riot only with 
regard to compressive strength, Brinell hardnes, toughness, and shrink
age, but are also subjected to other 
rigid tests. One of them is to oper
ate a bearing without any oil at a 
given predetermined load and speed 
and to find the time which is requir
ed to seize or grip the shaft. An
other very interesting test is to sub
ject a bearing to a very high pres
sure such as 3,000 pounds per square 
inch and to have it carry that load 
at very high rubbing speeds, such as 
700 feet per minute.
Various manufacturers of hearing 
metals from different parts of the 
country are sending their, metals here 
to have them tested.
A new babbitt testing machine is 
also being constructed for the pur
pose of determining the behavior of 
bearing metals with insufficient 
lubrication.
Summer Session to 
Open June Fifteenth
Undergraduate and Teacher 
Courses to be Given
Courses of interest to nearly every 
teacher or undergraduate who feels 
a need for further technical training 
will be given at the Eighth Summer 
Session of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology this year, according to an 
announcement from the institution. 
The Summer 'Session will open on 
June 15, less than a week after Com
mencement, for undergraduate cours
es of eight weeks in length, and on 
June 29, the six weeks courses for 
teachers are scheduled to begin.
The field of activity this year will 
cover subjects offered in the College 
of Industries, the College of Engin
eering, J;he Division of General Stu
dies, and the College of Fine Arts. 
The Engineering courses, offered es
pecially for undergraduates and pros
pective new students, will cover 
chemistry, physics, mechanics, sur
veying, and coal mining. The Col
lege of Industries will again offer 
numerous of its shop courses in ma
chine practice, electrical work, plumb
ing, heating, ventilating, welding, 
sheet metal work, and wood-working 
and cabinet-making for both under
graduates and for teachers of these 
vocational subjects.
Teacher courses in public school 
music, normal art, and applied art, 
will be given in the College of Fine 
Arts, while the Division of General 
studies will give academic subjects . 
covering English, mathematics, indus
trial history, commercial law; psych
ology and education, and engineering 
drawing and descriptive geometry.
Special attention will also be given 
by the Carnegie Tech authorities to 
the entertainment of summer students 
this year. The swimming pool of the 
gymnasium will be available and spe
cial provisions will be made for the 
use of the tennis-courts. In addition, 
a faculty committee is already plan
ning a program of picnics, dances, 
popular lectures, and inspection vis
its to Pittsburgh industrial plants.
tore a petticoat between every ballad 
and fight. 
There is something wrong with the 
imagination which uses itself as a 
scale upon which to weigh the merits 
and demerits of a life of the charac
ter of Shelleys. It is much the same 
as if a flea would point out the clum
siness of an elephants pedal activity.
As for the book, Ariel, which is it
self published more, or less as a work 
of art, the reviewer ignores it. All 
that we can say is that, with all its 
charm and interest, we found it 
slightly sentimental, slightly too 
good, to sweet, to be true of the 
wild-headed, idealistic, passionate 
poet of the Cloud. One who is mys
tified by the title, Ariel, will be mys
tified by the man, Shelley. She has 
no right to be disillusioned.
J. D. PL and P. S.
LIBRARY RECEIVES BOOKS 
WRITTEN BY FORMER STUDENT
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves.
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M.
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M.
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30 
P. M.
Special Invitation to Students.
Our library recently received an in
teresting gift in the form of two 
books on the Technology of Vege
table Oils, written by Joaquin Bertino Carvalho, a former student in the 
Department of Chemical Engineering 
at Carnegie. The two works were 
written in Portugueses, having been 
published in Rio De Janeiro, by the 
Brazilian government.
Of human interest is the following 
affectionate inscription that appeared 
in one of the books:. To Carnegie 
Techs Library: To My Old Carnegie 
Tech with my Heartiest Friendship 
and wishes for your continued pro
gress. Rio De Janeiro, January 28. 
1925. This characterizes the spirit 
of most former students at Carnegie. 
Mr. Carvalho attended Carnegie dur
ing the years 1920 and 1021, and pur
sued an intensive course in Organic 
Chemistry. Although not an especi
ally bright student, he was a hard 
worker and should succeed in his 
chosen profession.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, Near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M. 
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
.4
ALL
SEATS
25cSCHENLEY
THEATER
ALL
SEATS
25c
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ENTERPRISES THEATERS CO. HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WEDNESDAY
Laura LaPlante and Eugene OBrien in
Dangerous Innocence5
News Reel . Felix the Cat and Other NoveltiesComedy
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND SATURDAY
RASBCASBCAS
THE WONDER DOG
With Louise Fazenda, Buster Collier, 
Matthew Betz in
The Lighthouse By the Sea
Comedy News Weekly Aesop Fable
ALL WEEKALL WEEK
The Eight Krushinski Brothers Orchestra
Only Known Organization of Its Kind in America. 
Complete Change of Program Monday and Thursday
______ Plenty of Parking Space At the Schenley.
Co rjies
HATS ^ HABERDASHERY 
SHOES
TFTOTMTT iNTf
Fifth Avenue at 46th St.
NEW YORK
AT
Wm. Penn Hotel 
Tomorrow & Friday 
Jim Boyle, Rep.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 19, 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
&First rUniaUsCh
&
TARTANS GIVE PITT 
CLOSE RACE IN MEET
THIS WEEK IN SPORTS.
Panthers Nose Out Plaid in 
Bowl Tuesday After 
Struggle, 75-60
The Panther track squaa demon
strated their superiority over the Tar
tans in a dual meet last Tuesday af
ternoon in the Carnegie bowl. The 
final score was 75 to GO, which was 
much better than the Pitt meet of 
last year.
The visitors victory in the track 
events was all but overwhelming, Joe 
Christoff upheld the Plaid colors in 
the runs, and Ted Slultz in the 
liurdles, the former crossing the tape 
first in the 100 and 220 yard dashes 
while the latter won the low hurdles 
and placed second in the high 
Tmrdles.
One of the best races of the after
noon was the 440 yard dash, in which 
Wick of Pitt nosed out Kelly and 
Dyke of the Tartans. In this race 
Kelly held the lead and as both men 
neared the finish, Wick made a final 
spurtwhich forged him ahead seven 
feet at the tape.
Bastion proved to be the man of the 
hour in the field events, taking first 
in the broad jump and first in the 
javelin. Nesbit, Luty, and Smith also 
came through with firsts in their ev
ents and boosted the 'S'kibos score 
considerablyCarnegie garnered 
eight first places to the Panthers 
six.
The summary:
Track Events.
100-yard dashWon by Christoff, 
 Carnegie; Grindel, Pitt, second; Myer, Pitt, third. Time: 10 3-5.
220-vard dashWon by Christoff, 
Carnegie: Shriver, Carnegie, second; 
Myer, Pitt, third. Time: 23 4-5.
440-yard dashWon by Wick, Pitt; 
Kelly, Carnegie, second; Dyke, Car
negie, third. Time:53.
1-2 mile runWon by Wadkins, 
Pitt; H. S'chmitt, Pitt, second; Mc
Kinney, Carnegie, third. Time1:50 
2-5.
1 mile runWon by Schroedel, 
Pitt; Lies, Pitt, second; Bright, Car
negie, third. Time4:39-
2 mile runWon by Kerr, Pitt; 
Corbett, Pitt, second; Lies. Pitt, 
third. Time, 9:58 2-5.
120-yard high hurdlesWon by 
Harrington, Pitt; Stultz, Carnegie, 
second; Fabiani, Pitt, third. Time 
:1G 3-5.
120-yard low hurdles  Won by 
Stultz, Carnegie; Harrington, Pitt, 
second; DeVries, Carnegie, third. 
Time:14.
Field Events.
Running broad jumpWon by Bastian, Carnegie; Grindel, Pitt, second: 
Talbot, Pitt, third. Distance21 feet 
5 inches.
Hammer throw  Won by Nesbit, 
Carnegie; Linn, Pitt, second; Yoder, 
Carnegie, third. Distance116 feet.
Shot putWon by Linn, Pitt;
TUESDAY, MAY 19 
Varsity Tennis
Bucknell ........................................ Here
Freshman Baseball
Shadyside Academy ................ There
Freshman Tennis
Wilkinsburg High .................... There
THURSDAY, MAY 21 
Varsity Baseiball
Grove City .................................... Here
Varsity Tennis
Syracuse ..................................... There
FRIDAY, MAY 22 
Varsity Tennis 
Union College ... Schenectady, N. Y. 
SATURDAY, MAY 23 
Varsity Tennis 
New York University ... New York 
Varsity Baseball
Bethany ......................................... Here
Varsity Track 
Pitt Intercollegiates .. Schenley Oval 
Freshman Track 
Pitt Intercollegiates... Schenley Oval
OHIO WESLEYAN TOO 
SPEEDY FOR PLAID
Defeat Tartans in Dual Meet 
Friday By One-Sided 
Score, 94 2-3 to 40 1-3
W. VA. WESLEYAN LOSES 
ON TARTAN COURTS, 6-0
Carnegie Techs racqueters easily 
defeated West Virginia Wesleyan, 
Tuesday, when they won all matches 
making the final score 6-0.
It was not until the last doubles 
match that Carnegie was forced to go 
three sets to win. In the last singles 
match, Bowren was forced to do a 
marathon by Haught, who forced the 
sets to 11-9, and 7-5.
In the first singles match, Beecher 
defeated Westfall, a former Crafton 
High -School star, 6-0, 6-2. Bill Kemerys service was too much for Modlin, who succumbed to the tune of 
6-3, 6-1. Hall was only able to win 
one game per set from Harry Smith 
in the third singles match.
In the first doubles match, McWil
liams and Coover teamed together to 
defeat Hauglit and Westfall in 
straight sets, 6-4, 6-1.
The summary:
Singles.
Beecher, Carnegie, defeated West
fall, Wesleyan, 6-0, 6-2; Kemery, Car
negie, defeated Modlin, Wesleyan,
6-3, 6-1; Smith, Carnegie, defeated 
Hall, Wesleyan," 6-1, 6-1; Kemery 
and Bowren, Carnegie, defeated 
Haught, Wesleyan, 11-9, 7-5.
Doubles.
McWilliams and Coover, Carnegie 
defeated Haught and Westfall, Wes
leyan, 6-4, 6-1; Kemery and Bowren, 
Carnegie, defeated Modlin and Hall,
7-9, 6-4, 6-3.
Kutchka, Pitt, second; Archibald, 
Pitt, third. Distance39 feet, 1 inch.
JavelinWon by Bastian, Carnegie; 
Sauer, Pitt, second; Rhodes, Carne
gie, third. . Distance173 feet, 9 
inches.
High jumpWon by Luty, Carne
gie; Goodwin, Carnegie, second; Ro
bison, Pitt, third. Height5 feet,, 9 
inches.
Pole VaultWon by Smith, Carne
gie; H. Schmitt, Pitt, second; Good
win and Cutting, Carnegie, tied for 
third. I-Ieiglith10 feet, 9 inches.
Your Trip Home
THESE FINE TRAINS 
FROM CHICAGO
To Omaha  Lincoln  Denver
Lv. Chicago Ar. Omaha . Ar. Lincoln Ar. Denver
Colorado Limited 
10:30 a. m. 12:01 a. m. 1:50 a. m. 2:00 p.m.
Denver Limited 
5:30 p. m. 7:00 a. m. 8:32 a. m. 
7:55 p. m.
Nebraska Limited 
6:15 p. m. 8:10 a. m. 10:00 a. m.'
Overland Express 
11:00 p. m. 3:50 p. m. 5:55 p. m. 7:30 a. m.
To Kansas City  St. Joseph
Missouri Limited 
Lv. Chicago 6:00 p. m. Ar. St. Joseph 7:20 a. m.Ar. Kansas City 8:00 a. m.
To Minneapolis, St. Paul and the
Pacific Northwest 
North Coast Minnesota OrientalLimited Limited Limited
One day shown for example 
10:35 a.m. Sun. 6:30 p.m. Sun. 11:00 p. nLv. Chicago M<Ar. St. Paul Mon. 10:35 p.m. Mon. 7:00 a. n Ar. Minneap. Mon. 11:25 p.m. Mon. 7:50a. n Ar. Spokane Wed. 5:35 p.m. Wed. 7:00 a. nAr. Seattle Thur. 7:00 a.m. Wed. 8:50 p. nAr. Tacoma Thur. 7:00 a.m. Wed. 8:50 p. nAr. Portland Thur. 7:00 a. m. Wed. 7:00 p. n
To California
via the only really great scenic route  Overland Express.
Mon. 11:00 a 
Mon. 11:55 a Wed. 7:00 a Wed. 7:00 p. n Wed. 8:45 p.n Wed. 7:00 p. n
Oneday shown for example
Lv. ChicagoMon.11:00 p. m.Burlington Route
Lv. DenverWed.8:15 a. m.Rio Grande
Rovai GorgeWed.2:00 p. m.Rio Grande
Lv. Sale Lake CityThurs.12:30 p. m.Western PacificFeather River CanyonFri.8:00 a. m.Western PacificAr. San FranciscoFri.5:45 p. m.Western Pacific
Lv. Salt Lake CityThurs.2:35 p. m.Salt Lake Route
Ar. Los AngelesFri.2:30 p. m.Salt Lake Route
Through trainsthrough cars. Every train carries diner 
and observation car.
Everywhere West the Burlington offers you the faultless 
train service, perfect travel comfort, and help in planning 
your trip, which have for years made it the preferred 
route  Everywhere West.
Write for reservations or information about
Low Summer Excursion Rates
BURLINGTON TRAVEL BUREAD
504 Park Bld-, Pittsburgh, Pa.
W. V. TAFFNER, General Agent
The Tartan runners were sadly de
feated in the annual Campus Week 
track meet, held in the Bowl last Fri
day afternoon. Ohio Wesleyan, the
visiting team, walked away with
nearly every event, and piled up a 
94 2-3 to 40 1-3 victory.
With the exception of a few places 
where the Skibos had ibetter perform
ers, mostly in the weight events,
Wesleyan had no competition that
pushed its men. On the track, Car
negie couldnt enter a man to best 
out Ohios fastest, a couple of whom 
conceded places to pass out letters 
to team mates. Wesleyan took nine 
first places to Carnegie's four.
George McKinney, improving as a 
half-miler, ran second for Carnegie 
in his event to make the only time 
important to the track records for 
the school. McKinney now holds the 
school record for the half-mile on 
the new track, his time being 2 min
utes 2 and 2-5 seconds, which is 
within one second of the best time 
made iby a Tartan runner for that 
distance. Hazelton, one of the oldtime stars for the Plaid having made 
2:01 2-5 against Pitt in 1914.
Bastian again saved the day by 
taking two firsts, one in the javelin 
and one in the broad jump.
T rack Events.
100-yard dashWon by J. Pierce, 
Ohio; second, H. Pearce, Ohio; third, 
Parker, Ohio. Time:10 2-5.
Mile runWon by Hill, Ohio; sec
ond, Helms, Ohio; third, Bright, 
Carnegie. Time4:40.
220-yard dasliWon by J. Pierce, 
Ohio; second, Rosser, Ohio; third 
Davis, Ohio. Time:22 4-5.
120-yard high hurdlesWon by 
Ellis, Ohio; second, H. Pierce, Ohio; 
third, Stults, Carnegie. Time
: 16 1-5.
440-yard dashWon by Rosser.
Ohio; second, J. Pierce, Ohio; third, 
Kelly, Carnegie. Time:51 4-5.
Two-mile runWon by Helms,
Ohio; second, I-Iobe, Carnegie; third,] 
Bielski, Carnegie. Time10:15 3-5.
120-yard low hurdles  Won by 
Stults, Carnegie; second, Ellis, 
Ohio; third, Parker, Ohio. Time
: 14.
880-yard runWon by Hill, Ohio; 
second, McKinney, Carnegie; third, 
Southerds, Ohio. Time1:59.
Field Events.
Discus throwWon by Jordan.
Ohio; second, Goodwin, Carnegie; 
third, Tilton, Ohio. Distance111 
feet, 6 inches.
Javelin throwWon by Bastian,
Carnegie; second, Winters, Ohio; 
third, Bllckel, Ohio. Distance172 
feet, 6 inches.
Shot putWon by Essex, Ohio; sec
ond, Jordan, Ohio; third, Tilton, 
Ohio. Distance41 feet, 1 1-4 inches.
Pole vaultWon by C. Blickle.
Ohio; second, H. Pearce, Ohio; third. 
Smith, Carnegie. Height11 feet,
7 inches.
Broad jumpWon by Bastian, Car
negie; second, Roosser, Ohio; third, 
Bohn, Carnegie. Distance22 feet, 
i inch.
High jumpLuty, Carnegie, Ellis, 
Ohio, tied for first; H. Pearce, Ohio, 
Goodwin, Carnegie; Dowds, Ohio, 
tied for third. Height5 feet, 8 
inches.
Hammer throwWon by Nesbit, 
Carnegie; second, Jordan, Ohio; 
third, Yoder, Carnegie. Distance 
111 feet, 7 inches.
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
TWO BIG BASEBALL
ATTRACTIONS AT FORBES
FIELD THIS WEEK
PANTHER CUB RUNNERS 
DEFEAT PLEBES, 84-39
The{ Pitt Yearlings had an easy 
time with the Plebes in their meet 
last Tues'uay. The line score was 
84 1-3 to 38 2-3. The only firsts that 
Carnegie was able to win in the 
track events were in the mile and 
half-mile. Both of these were won 
by Captain Crawford.
Roy, Pitts best Frosh half-miler, 
comes from Juniata, seven miles 
from Crawfords home town of Ty
rone. The rivalry that existed in 
their prep school career has been 
carried over into their college days.
In the field events Carnegie was 
able to win another two first places, 
Hopper in the high jump and Munro 
in the pole vault doing the trick.
Track Events.
100-yard dashWon by Crawford, 
Pitt; Welsh, Pitt, second; Gayelli, 
Carnegie, third. Time, :10 3-5.
220-yard dashWon by Crawford, 
Pitt; Cayelli, Carnegie, second; Car
nahan, Pitt, third. Time* :24 1-5.
440-yard dashWon by Moore,
Pitt; Rutter, Pitt, second; Fingle, 
Carnegie, third. Time, :53.
Half mile runWon by Crawford, 
Carnegie, Rooy, Pitt, second; Wilson, 
Pitt, third. Time, :2:02 3-5.
One-mile runWon by Crawford, 
'Carnegie; Adams, Pitt, second; Kentmeyer, Pitt, third. Time, 4:45 3-5.
Two-mile runWon by Wilson 
Pitt; Borkon, Pitt, second. Time, 
12:08 3-5.
120-yard high hurdlesWon by 
Norris, Pitt; Connelly, Carnegie, sec
ond; Henry, Carnegie, third. Time, 
:17 1-5.
120-yard low hurdlesWon by Nor
ris. Pitt; Fell, Carnegie, second; 
Hopper, Carnegie, third. Time, :1!.
Field Events.
Running broad jumpWon by 
Welch, Pitt; Fell, Carnegie, second; 
Munro. Carnegie, third. Distance, 21 
feet.
Hammer throwWon by Cutler,
TRACK MEETS AND CAMPUS WEEK
After the track meet Friday with Ohio Wesleyan several alumni who had 
witnessed the events were heard to declare that in their opinion a team of 
less all-around strength than the Ohioans should be scheduled for a big occa
sion like Campus Week. As one man put it. "The Tartans have a mediocre 
track team, and a team of about equal caliber should have boon scheduled 
for Campus Week. This would assure some close and keen competition, and 
the interest to the spectators, especially the alumni who come back to soe 
their team in action, would be greatly Increased.
There is food for thought in the above statement. Let us look ahead to 
7 C. W., and schedule a team that will be neither too strong nor too weak 
to furnish close and interesting contests.
And while we are on the topic of schedules, it might not be amiss 
to remind the managers of the track and baseball teams that no 
harm would be done if they should get together and arrange their 
schedules in such a way that there would be less conflicts than there 
were this year. In order that the best possible results could be se
cured, it would be necessary for both managers to begin work on the 
schedules as soon as possible, and not wait until a month or two 
before the season opens.
The same situation regarding men who take part in both base
ball and track will crop up next year as it did this season, with this 
exceptionthere will be more of those men.
THE VARSITY AND INITIATIONS
Those connected with the baseball team this season were very much 
het-up following the Penn State game at Forbes Field on May S. It ap
pears that one of the players had been kept up the night before until about 
4:30 a. rn. at an honorary fraternity initiation. This same varsity player 
literally handed State a couple of runs because of erratic playing, such as 
might be expected of any good player who has had practically no sleep the 
night before a game.
This is no alibi for the Penn State defeat. It is simply a reminder in 
order that such an occurrence might not happen again. There will be other 
initiations this spring, and there will also be other varsity games. The 
coaches and others in charge of athletics strongly urge that the initiates who 
are on varsity or freshmen teams he given an opportunity to secure plenty 
of sleep the niglit before a contest. This is not asking too much.
THE PITT INTERCOLLEGIATES
As usual, Carnegie Tech will enter a team to compete In the 
annual Pitt Intercollegiates. Coach Guy Halferty is confident that 
some of his men will place in the events. In fact, he hopes to spring 
some surprises on the other teams entered.
Last year the Tartans had such outstanding men as Dykeman, 
Robertson, Mefore and Kramer to uphold the Plaid colors, but this 
year the only sure point winner is Max Bastian. Max will make them 
all hustle to trim him in the broad jump and the javelin throw. He 
has done over 22 feet in the broad jump this year, and has hurled 
the javelin 173 feet, only three feet under the school record held by 
Mefore in this event. McKinney should place In the half mile, and 
Kelly in the 440. Smith and Luty also should place in the pole vault 
and high jump respectively. And since Penn State will not enter the 
meet, the dash men should have a chance to make some points. 
Captain Brights dogged determination is likely to win him a place 
in the mile.
NEW TENNIS CAPTAIN
Because of the ineligibility of Captain Beocher, the lottor mon hold a 
meeting immediately after tho Pitt match Friday and olectod Harry Smith 
captain of the tennis team for tho remainder of tho yoar. Smith was cap
tain last year, and is ono of tho best tennis playors tho Tartans havo had for 
several yoars. His election moots With popular approval.*
The ninth annual interscholastlc meet held In the Tartan Bowl 
on May 9 was pronounced by officials of the meet to have been tho 
best thing of its kind ever held in Pittsburgh. It was managed fault
lessly, for which much credit is due Manager Bunny Frazier and hlo 
assistants.
It is said that safety pins used for pinning on tago alono cost inoro than 
twenty dollars. That givos an idoa of tho slzo of tho moot.
Shorty Maurer was unable to take part in the Bucknell Game 
because of an infected foot. He will be available for the Grove City 
game Thursday, however. ***
Artie Bahr and McClelland came through with some timely hits against 
Bucknell.
The Grove City tilt Thursday promises to be a real thriller with 
two pitching aces, Conrad and Hartman, opposing each other on the 
mound.******
Hardly a game goes by in which a eouplo of runs are not thrown away 
by tho Skibos becauso of poor baso running. This must be looltod Into at 
onco.
The Tartans have now won four games and lost five. They will 
attempt to put two more wins to their credit before the week is 
out.
INDIANA NORMAL WINS 
FROM PLEBE TRACKERS
The Carnegie Plebes suffered their 
first defeat o the year when they 
fell before the track and flold stars 
of Indiana Normal at Indiana, Pa., 
Saturday, May 9, by the score of 58-43i. 
1-2. King, of Indiana, was mainly 
responsible for the set-back of the 
Tartans, winning the 100, 220; and 440 
yard dashes in fast time. He ran the 
100 yard in ten seconds fiat. Craw
ford of Carnegie, won the half mile in 
fine time, 2:04.
Indiana placed first, second and 
third in the 100 and 220. They also 
took first and third In the 440 and 
mile races. In the low hurdles and 
discus, Indiana clinched first and sec
ond respectively.
McMillon, Flynn, Fingles, and 
Crawford, of Carnegie, won the ralay 
race in 3:42. Munroe, of the Plebe 
team rose ten foot six inches into 
the air to win the pole vault. Others 
who placed for Carnegie were Sebas
tian, who won the shot put with 44 
feet.- Fell jumped 19 1-2 foot in the 
broad jump, and Hopper reached the 
5 1-2 foot mark to win the high Jump.
Plebes 67; Schenley High 41.
Last Wednesday Schenley High 
was the victim of the Carnegie Plebe 
track team, losing by the lop-sided 
score of 67-41.
Schenley-Plebe summary:
Track Events.
100-yard dashWon by Cayelli, 
Carnegie; Lewis, Schenley, second; 
McMillan, Carnegie, third. Time : 11.
220-yard dashWon by Newby, 
Schenley; Cayelli, Carnegie, second; 
Murdock, Schenley, third. Time:24 
3-5.
440-yard dashWon by Voight, 
Schenley; Singles, Carnegie, second;
McMillan, Carnoglo, third. Time 
:57.
Ono miloWon by Crawford, Carnoglo; Hoffman, Schenley, sooond; 
Jossop, Schouloy, third. TImo4:49.
100-yard high hurdlesWon by 
Voight, Schonloy; Lewis, Schouloy, 
second; Connolly, Carnoglo, third. 
Time: 15.
100-yard low hurdlesWon by 
Foil, Carnegie; Murdock, Schonloy, 
second; Voight, Schonloy, third. Time 
:14 4-5.
Field Events.
Shot puttWon by Sebastian, Car
negie; Newby, Schenley, second; 
Wood. Schenley, third. Distance39 
feet 5 inches.
Discuss  Won by Armetrout, 
Schenley; Sebastian, Carnegie, sec
ond; Wood, Carnegie, thirdDistance 
97 feet 6 inches.
JavelinWon by Hopper, Carne
gie; Woods, Carnegie, second; Hoff
man, Schenley, fourth. Distance133 
feet 6 inches.
High jumpWon by Hopper, Car
negie; Hurd, Carnegie, second; Lew
is, Schenley, third. Height5 feet 
3 inches.
Broad jumpWon by Fell, Carne
gie; Hurd, Carnegie, second; Mun
roe, Carnegie, third. Distance19 
feet 4 inches.
Pole vaultWon by Henry, Carne
gie; Munroe, Carnegie, second; Duda, Schenley, third. Height9 feet 
9 inches.
Coach Don Blyth's protoges will 
take on two strong opponents at. 
Forbes Field this week. Grove City, 
tho team that already hold an 8-1 
victory over tho Tartans, will bo the 
attraction Thursday at 3:80 p. m. 
Hartman, the best college pitcher in 
the tri-state district, will bo on tho 
mound for the Grovers. Saturday. 
Bethany will be mot. Tho Skibos de
feated Bethany a eouplo of weeks ago, 
but Herman, star (linger, will oppose 
the Plaid Saturday.
Bethany Clay-Courters 
Outclassed By Plaid, 6-0
Carnegies Tennis squad coutinued 
in their winning stride by taking 
Bethany into camp last Thursday, 6-0- 
The Bisons were not able to win a 
match. This was tho second time in 
succession Carnegie had scored a 
shut-out victory from their opponents, 
the former victims being West Vir
ginia Wesleyan.
Bowran again ran Into a tartar in 
Kirby, who forced him to do an over
time act. just as Haught had dono In 
the Wesleyan meet on Tuesday, but 
was finally able to win tho first sot 
12-10, and tho second 6-2.
Beacher had little trouble with I-Iibler. 6-2. 6-0. Barlow took throe
games from Smith, ono in thefirst 
sot. and two in tho second. Kemery 
with his service aces, had an easy 
time with Olsey.
Bethany put up a little stiffer op
position in tho doubles. Beacher and 
Smith held the upper hand against 
Barlow and T-Iibler. winning their 
match 6-4, G-3.
Komory and McWilliams defoatod 
Olsey and Wolls. in tho last match, 
G-2, 6-4.
Tho summary:
Singles.
Beecher, Carnoglo, dofoatod Hiblor, 
Bethany, 6-2, 6-0.
Smith, Carnegie, dofoatod Barlow, 
Bethany, 6-1, 6-2.
Komory, Carnoglo, dofoatod Olsoy, 
Bothany, 6-0. 6-3.
Bowron, Carnog.lo, dofoatod Kirby, 
Bethany, .12-10, 6-2.
Doubles.
Boochor and Smith, Carnoglo, do
foatod Barlow and Hiblor, Ilothany, 
0-4, 6-3.
Komory and McWilliams. Carne
gie, dofoatod, Olsoy and Wolls, Both
any, 6-2, 6-4.
WESTMONT HIGH
LOSES RETURN MATCH
WITH FRESHMEN, 5-1
PIT RACQUETERS 
WIN TWO MATCHES
Varsity Contest Ends 4 to 2; 
Freshmen Trim PleDes 
By Big Score, 5-1
In a roturn match with Westmont 
High, of Johnstown, Pa., tho Tartan 
plebei addod another victory to their 
string when thoy won all Ilio singles 
matches and tho first doubles match. 
Hooper and S'eott lost tho only match 
for tho Plaid whon Mossonnr and 
O'Loughlln dofoatod thorn. Tho scoro 
for tho match was 5*1.
Pitt; Welch, Pitt, second; Booth, 
Pitt, third. Distance. 100 feet 9 
inches.
Shot putWon by Welch, Pitt; 
Cutler, Pitt, second; Booth, Pitt, 
third. Distance, 44 feet 3 1-2 Inches.
JavelinWon iby Welch, Pitt; 
Chaifant, Pitt, Becond; Mtinro, Car
negie, third. Distance, 179 feet 10 
inches.
High jumpWon by Hopper, Car
negie; Hurd, Carnegie, second: Hen
ry, Woods and Brunker, Carnegie, 
third (tied.) Height, 5 feet 7 inches.
Pole vaultWon by Munro, Carne
gie; Rearick, Pitt, second; Magee, 
Pitt, third. Height, 10 feet 4 inch'iz.
Library Receives Books 
Written by Former Student
Our library recently received an in
teresting gift in the form of two 
| books on the Technology of VegeI table Oils, written by Joaquin Bertli no Carvalho, a former student In the 
Department of Chemical Engineering 
I at Carnegie. The two works were 
i written in Portuguese, having been 
j published In Rio Do Janeiro, by the 
; Bra'/,Ilian government.
| Of human interest Is the following 
! affectionate Inscription that appeared 
; In ono of tho books: 'To Carnegie 
, Tech's Library: To My Old CJarnogle 
; Tech with my Heartiest Friendship 
; and wishes for your continued pro* 
\ Kress. Rio de Janeiro, January 28, 
i 1925. This characterizes tho spirit 
I of most former students at Carnefiie. 
j Mr. Carvalho attended Carnegie durj ing the yean 1920 and 1921, and purI sued an Intensive course In Organic 
Chemestry. Although not an especi
ally bright student, he was a hard 
| worker and should succeed in his 
chosen profession.
CLOTMDS FOR THU COM.UGU MAN
Tin
SACK SUIT
(Ttvo and three button)
W)V with thnt conacrvnti.nn carefully dressed men 
demand, and tailored in ap
propriate, rich patterns 
that fltamp them oa dis
tinctive.
3250 to H250a
NAT LUXENBERG & BROS. 
841 Broadway, New York
1 Hotel Schenley Thursday ( 
i and Friday, May 21 and 22 IMay
Our stylo memo, book sent free
-J
l request
Tho Carnoglo varsity tennis team 
succumbed to our rivals across tho 
way yesterday by tho scoro of four 
matches to two. Tho summary indi
cates tho closeness of affairs but does 
not do justice to it, because tho is
sue was carried to tho last sot of tho 
last doubles match before being 
definitely decided.
Silverman, playing number ono for 
Pitt, defeated Konunory in two closo 
sots, but Smith soon evoued mat
ters by disposing of Cable, former 
Crafton star, In rather easy fashion. 
Tho other singles were also divided, 
Caruogio taking the fourth match 
but losing tho third. Both roquired 
three hard sets to decide them.
In tho doubles Pitt fared well, 
taking both matches in straight sets. 
The absence of Beocher, the Plaid's 
best man, duo to ineligibility, was 
sorely regretted; moro especially 
whon Pitts star doubles team van
quished tho Carnegie pair opposing, 
them. Last year, it will be remem
bered, Beecher and Smith proved 
more than a match for tho Pitt 
luminaries.
Summary: ,
Stilmornum, Pitt, dofeatod Kommory, 7-5, 6-3.
Smith, Carnoglo, dofoatod Cable,
6-0, 10-8.
Linton, Pitt, defoatod Bowron, 8-6, 
1-6, 6-3.
McWilliams, Carnoglo, defeated 
McQuiston, 8-6, 1-6, G.-3.
Cablo and Ferguson, Pitt, dofeatod 
Bowron and Stalth, 6-1, 6-4.
Silverman and Linton, Pitt, dodoatod Kommory and McWilliams,
9-7, 6-3.
 * 
Just to mako It moro emphatic, tho 
Pitt Freshmen took .ilvo of their six 
matchos with tho Plohos. Baor and 
Sturm, in tho doublos, savod Carne
gie from being shut out, ovon though 
It took them throe sots to do it. It 
was not oven nooossary for Pitt to 
uso thoir famed doublos team of
Davo and John O'Loughlln, Tho
Plohos did thoir host but woro no 
match for thoir adversaries this tlmo.
Bourns, Carnoglo varsity man last 
yoar, played with tho Pitt Frosh.
Summary:
J. OLoughlln, Pitt, dofoatod Baor, 
6-2, 6-4.
Hauor, Pitt, dofoatod Sturm, 0-2, 
6-3.
D. O'Loughlln dofoatod Soott, 01, 
0-0.
Bourns, Pitt, dofoatod Hooper, 0-1. 
<1-0, 0-3.
Baor and Sturm, Carnoglo, defeated 
McMahan and Slmumborg, 0-2, 4-0, 
0-3.
Rlloy and Howlcnnmnlt.li, Pitt, de
feated Scott and Hooper, 0-2, 6-4,
Both tho nthlotlo nnd tho frnt ntudont will "play oafo" by getting hlo 
hand fitted with a 8nfoty Studonto' 
Special fountain pon nt SlngoroJonklno Aronde.
CANDIE8 
ICE CREAM 
LUNCHEON 
DINNER 
<J TO 8 P. M.
Our New 
Oakland Store
Corner Forbes and 
Atwood Street
Is serving a moot delicious 
Lunch, also Evening Dinner.
We Invite the students to 
meet their frlendB In the Reymer Store.
NOTICE
A limited number of eollcgc students 
will be given employment during the 
coining summer by the publishers of 
Good Housekeeping and Cosmopolitan 
Magazines. The plan embraces the 
payaient of a stipulated weekly salary 
plus tuition bonuses and traveling ex
penses. Mon with previous magazine 
experience will be considered for team 
captains positions and there will also 
be openings for several field supervi
sor's. Applications are now being re
ceived by:"
MR. H. J. NUSSBAUM
College Plan Department 
709 EMPIRE BUILDING, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Telephone Grant 7060
Further information by 
K. B. Tilbrook, Alumni Office

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 19, 1925
&riucos Frfa
ALUMNI PLEASED BY 
COUNTRY FAIR SAT.
MensCupWonByWoodlawn 
Club; Forbes Dorm Award
ed Girls Stunt Prize
!K tho alumni roamod* about tlio 
campus Saturday afternoon, they 
found at; I,ho corner of Forbes and 
Woodlawn, a real Country Fair. 
Crowd wandered from booth to booth 
taking in the sightli, ballyhooor'H 
shouted the merit ol! their respec
tive attraction, while the bellowing 
oi! cattle and tho neighing of JiorHOB 
added the finishing touche.
Those who had read the advertise
ments and who had an eye to bulneH naturally started for the ample 
tent first. So pleased were many 
with their success here that they re
turned again and again during the 
afternoon, to Lock up on the tooth 
pasto, face cream, face powder and 
Glo-eo, given by the May Drug Com
pany, and the tobacco, cigarette and 
pipe given by the Reynold Tobacco 
Company. Mud) of the success of 
the afternoon wa due to the kind
ness of these two firms, and to the 
General Tire Company, who gave 
away boxes of matches with holders.
The stunts, contained in several 
rows of tent, arranged in a neat 
roctangle, wore many and varied. The 
mens stunt cup was won by Wood
lawn Club, with a western bar-room 
skit of the vintage of '40,while the 
Forbes street dorms won the girls 
cup with dancing and vaudevlllo. 
Among the other stunts were the Hi
larity House, the medicine show, the 
Negro dodger, and the side how. A 
Fordson tractor which was on exhibi
tion during tlio afternoon, entertained 
with several exhibitions of its 
prowoHS, to the conBornation of any 
who happened to bo standing in its 
path.
Many exproHslon were heard from 
alumni, all commenting on the im
provement ovor last year Fair, and 
conceding no comparison between tlio 
Fair and the circus of former yoars.
Tlio Htunt cup idea this year was 
a means of bringing about a groat 
improvement In the quality of the 
stunt exhibited, and will probably lie 
followed again next year. Tho cups 
wore presented to the winners at tho 
Syria FCAHA)CI between acts of tho 
musical comedy, Saturday night.
Tho committee, under tho able 
leadership of Mr. McGoo, certainly 
sot a high standard for next years 
committee to shoot at, and Is to bo 
highly commanded upon tho success
ful roHiilt of It endeavors.
N!FL XP!MLS OY.Ro3 2 Harry Hamilton to 
ON GIRLS DOTMHORIES I
The name plate have been placed 
on the various dorm on Woodlawn 
and Forbes street. This mark the 
realization of a plan which ha been 
In the minds of thoe who have 
charge of the dorm, for several 
months.
The name plato, which are bronze, 
are very noally casL and add a decor
ative feature to the girl dorm beHide giving them a cortaln dignity 
which, only a dlHtinctive name can 
lend.
In addition to the dignity of a 
name, the now system iiould facili
tate the location of tho varlou lionsCKI for those' not familiar with them. 
The platoH are KC plaeod, an to be 
eaIly oen and tho names are dis
tinctive enough to be Iremembered 
and not confused with one another, 
us wa tho cac when the dorm were 
known only by number.
Another factor, not to be overlooked 
i the addition to the npirit of the 
dorms which pride In a name always 
gives.
Direct Huge Pageant
I Well-Known Dramat Sought 
By W. Va. University
PROMINENT ALUMNI TO
ATTEND CIVILS BANQUET
LEARN TO DANCE 
at the
Jnoquoa School of Dnnolna 
Crnla nnd Forbou Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings, Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
This hi a School
Not a public dance hall.
Craig Restaurant
The place whom all tho fellow 
MAT
412 CRAIG 8TREET
Compliments
of
Skibo Inn
I Oakland Savings &
I
Trust Co.
Mei.iber Federal Reservo 
System.
With the acceptance by Mr, E. N. 
Hunting, president and chief engineer 
of the Hnnting-Davis Company, and 
Mr. A. A. Rayiner, Chief Engineer 
of the Pittsburgh and Lake Erie 
Railroad and a director of the Amer
ican Society of 'Civil Engineers, of 
the invitation of the Carnegie Stu
dent Chapter of the A. S. C. E. to 
peak at their annual ibanquet tomor
row evening, May 20', arrangements 
have boon completed for making this 
years banquet the best of a long 
erlos of successful -banquets.
Tho presence of .1. D. Beatty, 20, 
Philip Male, 23, E. S. Bucher, 17. 
and other alumni who have already 
achieved prominence in civil engine
ering, interest in the forthcoming 
announcement of next years officers, 
the delicious chicken dinner, and the 
presence of tho inimitable A1 Min
etti should Insure a perfect attend
ance at the Ruskln Apartments when 
M. C. Bltner, president, of tho local 
student chapter, starts ceremonies to
morrow evening at six-thirty.
ALUMN1-VARSITY MATCH 
PRODUCES GOOD TENNIS
 Capital  -.................$300,000.00 
A Surplus...................... $300,000.00 A
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00 *t| 
X SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 2 
Y FOR RENT
S. !
ROUGHING IT IN 
EUROPE
WITH
A Crowd of Colleae Men
67 Days.................$500
Frnnoc, Switzerland, Italy, 
Holland, Belgium, England
Why Dont You Join 
Too?
WRITE TO 
SCHOOL OF FOREIGN 
TRAVEL, INC.
110 E. 42nd Street New York
The varsity racquet squad wa de
feated by the alumni team last Satur
day afternoon by a score of -1 to 2. 
OConnor, G)UT,I Copley, and Mar
shall played Hlngies for the alumni 
and wore rated In the order named. 
In the doubles matches, ScJilrt/. and 
Marshall with Coploy and Davis broke 
even with the varsity. Bill Kemery 
was the only member of the varsity 
who won his ingles match.
DELIGHTFUL VAUDEVILLE
OPEN3 CAMPUS WEEK
(Continued From I'age One.) 
sho had charmed on so many provl 
ous occasionWarren Kimball hewed 111 vornu1,1 Illy a a dancer In Dream Dance 
wherein Virginia l'eteron, Ann Lu 
rla, Ruth Aston, and /belle Davis 
return to him In Ills dream and lie 
relieves his oxporloncos ait Hod 
Horne'ii teasing of tho plane calls 
them hack to him. Truly Pittsburgh, 
tho audience probably found I hi 
sketch the most attractive, and their 
judgment did not err. All were dollglitl'ul, but Warren and Zabelin's 
Apache dance was superb.
Herb Polosie followed up with his 
college prof impersonation which, as 
predicted, cored a big hit because 
of Herbs naivete and sympathetic 
appeal.
The inevitable jazz was supplied by 
U. D. Egizi and his Olympic Theater 
orchestra. The old adage that prac
tice makes perfect was well demon
strated by these syncopaters, to whom 
the keyboard is as familiar as the 
slip-stick is to the engineer. Of par
ticular merit was ,a cornet quartet 
which was encored many times, and 
which alone could have insured the 
success of the program.
A light comedy, "Heavy Hips, was 
followed by Gypsyland, an abbrevi
ated extravaganza, wherein Eddie 
Newman, Kizzie Murdock, Zabelle 
Davis, Esther Leiscli, Warren Kim
ball and the Kiltie Quartet starred, 
in sqng and dance roles.
A1 Minetti and his Swiss yodelers 
occupied the front row and consumed 
their caviar and pumpernickel much 
to the amusement of the onlookers. 
If they at times drew the attention 
from the stunts,,they are forgiven.
The committee In charge, Harry 
Mends, Phil Thorn, Al Johnson, and 
Bon Weinblatt, under the direction of 
Bull Yoder, are to bo complimented 
upon tho success of tho vaudeville, 
which by many was pronounced to be 
tho best Campus Week performance 
they had yet witnessed.
Harry Hamilton, a graduate of the 
Drama Department in lat years claH 
1 directing the great historical pa
geant which will he given in the sta
dium of the University of West Vir
ginia, Morgantown, o/i June 8. This 
pageant wa written by Clare Lyple, 
Head of the Department of English 
in tho University, and will consist of 
many episodes, each depleting an in 
cidenf in tho history of West Virginia.
Every fraternity in the University 
will give one episode and Mr. Ham
ilton will bo in charge of each episode 
and will direct the complete produc
tion.
Mi. Hamilton speqialized in playwriting, and production while at Car
negie, he wrote and directed several 
plays during his four years on the 
campus. AL present he is Instructor 
In English at Braddock High School, 
whore last week he produced an 
original musical comedy, with a stu
dent cast of eighty, which played to 
crowded houses for six performances. 
Next year Mr. Hamilton goes to Ala
bama Polytechnical Institute, to be 
Assistant Professor of English and 
Dramatics.
OVER 500 ALUMNI 
AT ANNUAL FEED
J. L. Porter Gives Address at 
Luncheon; Dr. Baker and 
Laboon Speak
RASSBACH AND AIDES
PUT ON GLORIOUS C. W.
(Continued From Page One.) 
way.
Business Manager of Shows.
P. Ii. Sload, manager; Jack Harris, 
Russ Roller.
Vaudeville Show Committee.
Lloyd Yoder, chairman; Phil Thorn.
Social Committee.
Mike Goodwin, chairman; Edith 
Warren, K. Fulmer, Swede Wendlcnt, 
A. O. Jennings, G. J. Murphy.
Sweepstakes Committee.
Ben Kritsof, chairman; G. 1. Mur
phy, R. De Pue, Sid Forbes, Bill 
Escher, W. A. Donahue, J. V. Bow
ser.
Qualification Committee.
iCaroy Proctor, chairman; Elizabeth 
Losser, G. W. Van Vechten, C. S. 
Peck, Don Davidson, Bob Alderdice, 
Dave Garber.
Athletio Committee.
Lyle R. Sheppard, chairman; Mary 
Quick, G. O. Wessenauor, J. E. 
Cooke, J. N. Tilbrook, E. Plummer.
Alumni Committee.
IT, C. Brockman, chairman; Era* 
ost Kruger, Mary Heilig, Grace Pat
erson, W. Ritts, II. B. Pierce, H. L. 
Heilman, K, Tilbrook.
Burlesque Committee.
AI Minetti, chairman; Pat Ryan, 
Tiny Nesbitt, J. A. Robertson, O. B. 
Newman, Bill Manby, Jim Dasiibach.
KAPPA SIGMA WINS
SWEEPSTAKES TROPHY
You know, 1 think Cloorgo Is the 
most efficient: man 1 know? 
j "Hows that?"
"In order to save on his laundry 
hill he hides his stocks in the pocket 
of his pajamas."Dartmouth Jack o' 
I Lantern.
STUDY at HOME for EXTRA CREDITS
More than 450 courses in History, English, Mathematics, Chemistry, 
Zoology, Modern Languages, Economics, Philosophy, Sociology, etc., 
are given by correspondence. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully 
will be furnished on request. Write today.
95 ELLIS HALLje Umbcritp o Cijicago
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS
(Continued From Pago Ono) 
gracefully to a lln-llkp projection in 
the baok.
Drlvors and pushers, rapt with huhponse, longed to hear the hark of tho 
gun, ho that they could peed along 
the oouriiQ. At tho pop of tho gun, 
two large rows of car, advancing 
nock and nock, came up tlio hill like 
an army. At tho next lap tho upood 
ear, receiving strenuous pushes, llew 
down the hill. Some human onginoH 
attempted to make hotter time by 
running, but they Hopped on the ashplialt, while the cars sped past them.
Industries Hill, the greatest ob
stacle was soon reached and tho third 
lap began. Heavy cars dropped be
hind. while lighter ones went forward 
with more ease. At the last: lap, away 
went the last relay men, each striving 
to obtain a better place. M. M. School 
loomed In sight and the Kappa Sigma 
speedster for the third consecutive 
year crossed the chalk line first. Sig
ma Alpha Epsilon was second, but 
their place is contested. Delta Tan 
Deltn came in third and Sigma Nu 
was fourth.
HUBERT OSBORNE WILL
NOT RETURN THIS YEAR
Together with the rest of G C. W. 
events, the Alumni Luncheon has be
come a matter of history, but not 
without having loft an impresHion 
which will do much toward implant
ing our alumni home coming week 
as a permanent institution at Car
negie. The. ha'riquet was held last 
'Saturday afternoon at the Wm. Penn 
Hotel, and is credited with having 
had an attendance of over 500 alumni 
and their guests, the seniors. The 
principal address of the afternoon 
was given by J. L. Porter of the board 
of trustees of Carnegie. Music was 
furnished by the Collegiate Imps, and 
entertainment by Al Minetti and his 
band of comedians,
A most gratifying feature of the 
banquet is the large number of alum
ni who were presentOf this number 
about fifty were from the classes of 
'08, .09, 10, and 11, and considering 
the size of these classes, shows that 
our early grads responded nobly to 
the call of C. W.
F. Cogswell, a well known Carnegie 
Alumnus, was toastmaster, and kept 
the assembly in the best of spirits 
during the whole program. The sub
ject of the address of the afternoon, 
given by J. L. Porter, was How High 
Shall We Build Carnegie. Dr. Bak
er and John Laboon, President of the 
Alumni Federation, also delivered ad
dresses.
The Collegiate Imps, who were so 
very successful at the Coronation 
Dance and at the Mardi Gras, main
tained their reputation by delivering 
a .most delightful program of jazz 
selections. Carnegies official police 
force under the direction of Al Min
etti, had some slight difficulty in 
maintaining order. During the course 
of the afternoon, both Bill Pfouts 
and G. L. Tilbrook were arrested, pro
testing vehemently, which added 
greatly to the merriment of the occa
sion. Perhaps the most amusing, oc
currence was the finding of a bottle 
or "Hooch in Dr. Baker's pocket. By 
a slight-of-hand performance one of 
the officers apparently removed a 
Hasic from Dr. Bakers hip pocket and 
held it aloft;.
Transportation t.o and from the ho
tel was effected by bus service ar
ranged by tho Alumni Office which 
made it quite convenient, for alumni 
on the campus. After the banquet 
was ovor, which was at about 2:30, 
almost everyone returned to the cor
ner of Woodlawn and Forbes street, 
whore the main part of the Country 
Fair program had been held over un
til the appearance of the Old Grads.
Former Student Made 
Editor of Newspaper
Leanord Anderson to Lead 
Wilkinsburg Progress
The Wilkinsburg Progress, in look
ing around to find some one to take 
charge of their newsaper, selected 
Leonard Anderson as editor-in-chief.
Mr. Anderson attended Carnegie 
one year, being in the class of 11)27. 
He was an engineering student but 
dropped out to take up newspaper 
work.
His first job was as a reporter for 
The Braddock News-Herald. After 
several promotions he accepted the 
above mentioned position. The Wil
kinsburg Progress is a weekly con
nected with News-Herald and has 
a circulation of 10,000 issues.
Anderson has displayed an unusual 
amount of talent in newspaper work 
and with his present start should 
reach a high position in the news
paper world.
ORGANIZATIONS MUST PAY 
BILLS FOR THISTLE CUTS
SURVEY CAMP OPENS 
FOR SOPHS AT DAVIS
FRATERNITIES CALL
LEADERS IN ACTIVITIES
(Continued From Pago One.) 
for work on Carnegie publications, 
Ruth Dawson, Vina Kahlo, Alice 
Moore, Ellonor Tallmndgo, Mary 
Tucker, and Margaret Nuttall.
PI Delta Epsilon tho journalistic 
honorary called thesemen, H. Al
bright, .Too Christoff, John Gilbert, 
Craw, .1. M. Goss, Nolson Mitchell,
B. Whitman.
The Carnegie Clef Club called G. 
L. LoHurou, E. J. fiprutti, M. P. HolUnsheadl 'S'. I. wons, V. B. Smith, 
Joe Steen, E. I'1. Sullivan (honorary).
Tan Sigma Delta called Stanley 
Stark, William Slmboli, Ray Winters, 
Earl Wheeler.
Eta Kappa Nu called II. E. Ash
worth, .T. E. Bielslci, A. F. Carson.
The Castle called D. G. Dalton, R. 
D. Gaylor, P. A; Rice, R. A. Winters.
The 1925 Thistle Board has decid
ed that unless the unpaid picture 
bills of various organizations are 
paid by May 15, 1925, their pictures 
will not appear in the 1926 Thistle. 
In order to have their pictures in the 
Thistle next year they will have to 
pay for the pictures in advance. Fol 
lowing is a list of the organizations 
that have not as yet paid their bills 
and are subject to the above ruling.
Boss Hall, McGill Hall, Mens Glee 
Club and Officers, Household Eco^ 
nomics, Chemists Club, Sine Nomine 
Club, Social Workers, Margaret Mor 
rison Guild, Girls Glee Club, Wom
ens Athletic Club, Y. M.. C. A. Cab' 
inet, Stringers, Y. W. C. A., Technon, 
Druids, 'Commercial Club, Clef Club, 
Miners and Metallurgists Club, Wom
ens Basket Ball Teams, A. I. E. 111., 
M. M. English Club, C. M. E. S. and 
Acacia.
It is asked that the above organi
zations make checks to the 1925 
Thistle Board for their bills, and 
send them to F. W. Cook, 4929. 
Forbes street, before May 15, 1925,
ARCHITECTURAL STUDENTS
WITH DISTINCTIVE AWARDS
BUCKNELL NINE DEFEATED
BY TARTANS, 14-8
(Continued From Page One.) 
may readily be seen that his abilities 
along this line are well appreciated 
by those who are in. a position to 
judge his work.
Mr. Osbornes work at Yale will be 
closely watched by his many friends 
at Carnegie Tech, not only those who 
know him personally, but those who 
know him by his work. With liis 
breadth of conception of dramatic 
possibilities, and his detailed knowl
edge of the stage, we may expect 
some great, results from him in years 
to come. Yales gain is Carnegies 
loss.
(Continued From Page One.)
M. Goodwin, Kesney, Tuck. Twobase hits  Gaskill, M. Goodwin. 
Three-base hitsBastian 2, M. Good
win, Quinn. Home runQuinn 2, M. 
Goodwin. Double play  Christoff 
and Lynch. First base on ballsOff 
Murp'hy 1, off Mosser 1. off Kisney 3. 
Passed ballDiffifey. HitsOff Mur
phy, 4 in 2 innings; of Mosser, 4 in 
1 inning; off Kisney, 9 in 5 innings. 
Struck outBy Kisney 5, by Conrad 
S. Time2:10. UmpiresBolster
and Daugherty.
DARK DOINGS
First She: Hear about the honor
committee kicking Jack out of col
lege?
Second Ditto: Why, you dont say?
First She: Yeah, they caught him
looking out of the -window on the 
night Of the astronomy exam. 
Brambler.
Delta X P First In Scholarship Race
(Continuod From Pago One.l
Without With
Pledges Pledges
Delta Chi Rho .............................................................. 8.1)4 1.50
Thota XI ........................................................................ 3.86 3.66
Delta Mu ........................................................................ 8.83 3.61
Acacia ............................................................................ 3.76 3.3-1
Beta Sigma Rho .......................................................... 3.72 3.7*1
Delta IJpsilon .............................................................. 3.72 3.53
Phi Kappa ...................................................................... 3.58 3.36
Beta Thota Pi .............................................................. 3.57 3.18
Delta Pill llolln ............................................................ H.fil! 3.12
Woodlawn Club .......................................................... 3.43 3.-15
Kappa Sigma ................................................................ 3.39 3.25
Delta Tan Delta........................................................... 3.85 3.06
Alpha Sigma Phi ........................................................ 3.34 3.27
Sigma Alpha Epsilon ................................................... 3.33 3.11
Pi Kappa Alpha .......................................................... 3.31 3.2S
Sigma Epsilon Phi .................................................... 3.29 3.12
Sigma Nu ...................................................................... 3.2S 2.90
Alpha Tau Omega ...................................................... 3.15 2.S6
Kappa Sigma Rho ...................................................... 3.02 2.99
Edward A. Pauly, of Hamburg, N. 
Y., a special course student in the 
Department of Architecture at the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, has 
been awarded second place in the 
Spiering Prize Competition, according 
to an announcement from the Society 
of Beaux Arts Architects in New 
York City. The. prize, founded in 
memory oi! Louis C. Spiering from 
funds bequeathed., by him to the So
ciety of Beaux Arts Architects is given annually for tho best solution of 
a one-day Class B sketch problem.
H. Walter Damon, of Cleveland, 
Ohio, a junior, and Wayne F. Ivoppes, 
of Elyria, Ohio, -a senior, both studonts in the Department of Architec
ture at. Carnegie Tech, have been 
awarded First Mentions in the last 
Class A competition judged by the 
Beaux Arts Institute of Design, ac
cording to an announcement from the 
local institution.
MUSIC STUDENT WINS PRIZE
AT ANNUAL CONVENTION
Miss Katherine Hesseler, a Junior 
in the piano option, Department of 
Music, competed recently in a contest 
held at the Annual Convention of the 
Pennsylvania State Federation of 
Music Clubs in Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
Miss Hesseler, the youngest com
petitor, won third place in the con
test, the first and second honors go
ing to Mrs. Rosetta S'. French, of 
Philadelphia (pupil of Harold Bauer), 
and to Miss Elsie M. Fields, a stu
dent at the Curtis Institute of Musi
cal Art in Philadelphia. The contest 
was open to all students who have 
had their last ten years of piano 
study in the United States.
WHITEHEAD CLUB ELECTS
OFFICERS AT LAST MEETING
On Sunday, May 3, at the Church 
of the Ascension, the Whitehead Epis
copal Club held its last meeting of 
the year. Supper -was served and a 
short address was made by Dr. 
Meade. The election of officers for 
next year took place at this time also. 
These officers are as follows: Presi
dent, Elizabeth Seville, 'of the Uni
versity of Pittsburgh; Vice presi
dents, Charles Corbet, of the Univer
sity of Pittsburgh, and Margaret Nuttail, of Carnegie; Secretary, Made
line Amberg, of Carnegie; and Trea
surer, Sara Bradley, of Carnegie.
The Whitelvetid Club is planning to 
send at least one delegate to the Tri
ennial National Student Assembly, 
which is to be held in Racine, Wis
consin. from June 18, to June  24. 
This is an assembly oT Episcopal stu
dents from all over the country, who 
meet to discuss various college prob
lems, and hold Bible classes and dis
cussion groups.
The executive committee of the 
club is at. present working on the pro
gram for next year, which it. plans 
to make an active oneAll Episco
palians on the Campus are asked to 
watch The Tartan for announcement 
of the first meeting next fall, and 
then to come out and support the 
club.
Professor: If the president. v:oe
president, and all the members of 
the cabinet died, who would offici
ate?
Pupil: The undertaker.Ohio
Whirlwind.
At a time when most Carnegie stu
dents are looking forward to the ap
proaching summer vacation, antici
pating a'well deserved rest, most , of 
the Sophomore .Civil and Mining En
gineers and students in Building Con
struction are making preparations 
for continuing their Surveying cours
es at the Summer School of Snrveying 
at Davis, West Virginia. The course 
for Building Construction men lasts 
for a period of three weeks, the en
gineers continuing their studies for 
six weeks. 
The camp is located at Davis, West 
Virginia, about one hundred miles by 
air line south-southeast of Pittsburgh. 
It is situated on a plateau, the eleva
tion of which is approximately three 
thousand feet above sea level. This 
plateau is drained by the Blackwater 
River in which the student will find 
in his leisure time plenty of good 
fishing and swimming.
The students will be quartered, two 
men in a room, in the Blackwater Ho
tel. This hotel is known to have an 
excellent cuisine, one of the menon 
his return from camp describing in 
glowing terms a meal in which eigh
teen different viands were served. 
That should be sufficient to tempt any 
modern counterpart of Richard the 
Lion-Hearted.
The camp is of immeasurable 
value to the/prospective engineer be
cause it adds to the theoretical train
ing that he has had in school prac
tical work in traverses, triangulation, 
solar and stellar1 observations, hydrographic surveying, and other work in
cident to the proper training of the 
engineer.
S. I. OWENS TO LEAD
PLAID-CLAD KILTIES
(Continued From ^age One) 
fice, and of Dean Tarbell in securing 
of bookings and finances. The Stu
dent Council is to be complimented 
for its foresight in giving the band its 
very weighty support.
Individually, Dave Garber has done 
really remarkable work for the Kil
ties. While there are many others on 
the campus who might have dupli
cated his achievements had they been 
willing to make the sacrifice of time 
and study, yet it is doubtful wheth
er any other would have devoted him
self so whole-heartedly and unselfish
ly .to carrying out his ideals nnd 
aspirations.
Last, but morff than anything else, 
the band is to be thanked for the 
wonderful spirit with which it obeyed 
every summons and the devotion to
ward Carnegie which it displayed on 
every occasion.
RIOT OF COLOR
MARKS MARDI GRAS
(Continued from Page One.) 
noted, among them the improved 
floor of the new gym; the new loca
tion of the orchestra, witli its sound
ing board; the almost complete 
absence of outsiders, due to the new 
method of selling tags; the number 
of dancers in costume; and the re
volving lighthouse in the Union.
The committee responsible for the 
success of this, the biggest and best 
dance of the year, was Myron M. 
Goodwin, chairman; Florence Jones 
of Arts, designer of the Campus Week 
tags, who also had charge of their 
sale; Edith Warren, of Margaret Mor
rison, secretary; George Murphy, in 
charge of orchestras; Kline Fulmer, 
who had charge of finishing the 
floors; and Vern Wendandt, who se
cured the sounding board.
ProfessorBaxter: What is a
polygon?
Jackson: A dead parrot.
C. M. STAUFT
5 3901 FORBES STREET
g Artists and Engineers MateH rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
The Fraternity of 
Business)
Bepin now to form tho associations 
and habits that will servo you when 
you enter the business world. A bank account, aside from the tan
gible value, furnishes experience and contacts which will operate to 
your advantage in' later years.
The personal interest of Mellon of
ficers in the financial welfare of depositors is one of the outstand
ing characteristics of the institution. Our experience and business judgment are at your Bervice. 
Capital and Surplna $12,000,000.00
TO GIVE SONG RECITAL IN
LITTLE THEATER ON MAY 21
A song recital will be given in the 
Little Theater by Miss Bessie 
Weiricb, Thursday evening, May 21,. 
at eight-thirty. She is to be accom
panied at the piano by Mathew* Frey. 
An interesting program has been ar
ranged and as such should appeal 
to all music lovers who will be 
able -to attend.
Miss Weirich, being a well known 
music student in the College of Fine 
Arts, needs no introduction. Her 
sweet soprano voice soon captures 
any audience before which she ap
pears. As this is her last appear
ance before graduation those who 
wish to hear her should make a. 
special effort to be there.
The program is as follows:
I.
Gluck Spiagge Amate (Elena E. 
Paride.
MozartVoi, ehe sapete (Le Nozze 
di Figaro.)
BrownSheperd! Thy DemeanourVary (Old English.)
II.
SainkSaensO beaux reves evanouis 
(Etienne Marcel.)
PaladidhePsyche.
Massenet Pleurez! pleurez, mes 
yeux! (Le Cid.)
III.
SchubertNur wer die Sehnsucht 
kennt.
SchubertFruklingsglaube.
SchubertIhr Bild.
SchubertAuf dem Wasser zu sin
gen.
IV.
Alice BarnettTonight.
Dagmar RybnerThe Waterlily. 
Winttner WattsWing of Night.
LAST OF CHEM. EQUIPMENT
LECTURES SET FOR FRIDAY
The last of a series of five special 
lectures on chemical engineering 
problems presented under the joint 
auspices of Carnegie and the Chem
ical Association will be given next 
Friday night, May 22, by Charles 
Fuhrneister, Jr., of the Oliver Con
tinuous Filter Company, who will dis
cuss, "Art in Filtration.
The lecture will be open to the pub
lic and will be given at 8:30, in room 
218, of the Science Building.
CAMPUS WEEK SHOW
SCORES GREAT SUCCESS
(Continued From Page One.)
song of Welcome to the closing bal
lad Im in love forever, action was 
fast and enticing and at the end all 
was happily settled.
The show was in two acts with 
four scenes, varying from country 
roads, to ballrooms. The chorus was 
chosen from all colleges, and the 
story was written by Fred Smith and 
Don Gardener, Seniors in the College 
of Engineering.
HERB POLESIE TO BE SOCIAL 
DIRECTOR AT SUMMER CAMP
Herbert S. Polesie, a senior in the 
Drama Department, 'and prominent in 
the activities of the school, will act 
as Social Director for the summer at 
the Adult Camp, Sawlcill Pines, at 
Milford, Pa.
Wrigleys increases tho 
flow of saliva and relieves 
that 'stuffed feeling. Clears 
the throat, steadies nerves 
and sweetens the breath. 
Cleans teeth too.
F58Costs little-helps much,
UNIVERSITY! NN CRAIG, NEAR CENTER
Is now open for faculty and students.
OUR SERVICE WILL PLEASE YOU 
Please Give Us a Trial
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Squa e East Liberty
\
