Tartans
Win
Seventh Straight 
See Page 2
Fraternity 
Housing 
Plans Set 
See Page 4
A TO Display Wins Frat Competition
Omega, national service fraternity, 
who called 11 men to membership. 
John F. Schonder then called 
David C. Larson and Paul D. 
Wolfe to Omicron Delta Kappa, 
senior mens honorary. Admiral 
Joseph W. Ludewig, Associate 
Professor of Metallurgy, made the 
call to Phi Kappa Phi, national 
honorary emphasizing scholarship.
|Ten girls from Margaret Morrison, 
11 Fine Arts students, 26 from
Awards Made At Carnegie Day 
To Open Homecoming Week
At 12:30 p.m. on Friday, November 5, Carnegie Day opened the 
Homecoming festivities for 1954. Among the musical renditions of 
the Kiltie symphonic band and the Cameron Choir, several honorary 
calls and awards were made.
The first call was made by4.................... ........................................
C. Yanda of Alpha Phi rri i *r 1 ecu Honoranes 
Select Students 
For Membership
Many of Techs outstanding stu
dents were called to honoraries at 
Call Day this Homecoming last 
Friday. The honoraries that made 
calls and the students called are 
listed below.
Alpha Phi OmegaThe 
service honorary whose main func
tion is service to the schbol. 
call was made by George 
president. The men 
membership were: Carl Arendt,
Joe Bindle, Joseph Early, John 
Hess, John Joslin, Herb Kreinlder, 
Richard Lichauco, Anthony Mierzwa, Raymond Parsick, John Peth, 
Richard Raskin.
Omicron Delta KappaThe sen
ior mens honorary whose main 
purpose is to honor outstanding 
seniors and also does service to 
the school. The call was made by 
John Schronder, president. The 
two called were David Larson and 
Paul Wolfe.
Delta SkullThe junior mens 
honorary call was made and the 
following students selected: George 
Bangs, Jerrey Hohmann. Donald 
Gross, William Minkler, Bartley 
Osborne.
Tau Beta PiThe engineering 
scholastic honorary called the fol
lowing students: Joseph Thomas, 
Edward Feigenbaum, Dale Horelick, James Meindle, A1 Riedel, 
Thomas Agnew, Gerald Maurer, 
Richard Heckel, Robert Licht, John 
Beahl, Webster Howard, Simon 
Kellman, Adolph Austin.
Claymore ClanThe mens 
dormitory honorary called the fol
lowing students: James Murphy, 
Claude Gibble, John Dug Drgon, 
Wayne Nathanson.
photo by Toia
Queen Crowning
Dr. Warner and Gayle Saxson
E&S, and 2 Printing Management 
students were called to member
ship.
Tau Beta Pi
After two selections by the Cam
eron Choir, Paul E. Weber called 
10 music students to Phi Mu Alpha 
L Sinfonia, mens music honorary. 
r1 Wilson W. Sick then made the call 
for Tau Beta Pi, national engi
neering and science honorary, call
ing 13 seniors. Tau Beta Pi also 
called two juniors as junior hon
orary members. They were Ed
ward A. Feigenbaum, and Joseph 
J. Thomas. Claymore Clan then 
called four to membership.
After a musical interlude by the 
Kiltie Band, Wesley L. Folsom 
called six juniors to Delta Skull, 
3 junior mens honorary. He then 
presented the Senior Class Plaque 
to Josie Boyd and John Schonder, 
presidents of Mortar Board and 
Omicron Delta Kappa. The plaques 
hang in the first floor of Adminis
tration Hall and are to be pre
sented annually at least until 1964.
Scholarship Cup 
Richard R. Christensen present
ed the CFP Scholarship Cup to 
Beta Sigma Rho, the fraternity 
1|With the highest factor for last 
year. Mrs. James D. Finley, Presi
dent of Womens Panhellenic then 
presented the Pittsburgh Panhel
lenic Association Scholarship Cup 
to Kappa Kappa Gamma, the sor
ority with the highest factor last year.
Joanne Y. Boyd presented the 
Mortar Board Award to Ivy Hill, 
who had the highest factor in Mar
garet Morrison for her freshman 
year4.00. Tau Beta Pi then pre
sented a $25 check to Terry E. 
Sharp, selected as the outstanding 
IContinued on page 3]
PanHel Announces 
Plans For Annual 
Formal Function
The PanHel Council of Carnegie 
Tech will sponsor its main social 
function of the year on November 
13. The annual PanHel dance will 
be held at the Schenley Hotel from 
9:00 to 12:00 p.m. and will feature 
Bill LeRoy and his orchestra. The 
dance is formal and boutonnieres 
will be provided for the fellows.
The dance is by invitation only 
and only sorority members are in
vited. Alumni of the seven sor
orities on campus are invited but 
guests must be alumni of one of 
the sororities. Ttye dance is paid 
for by an assessment on each Tech 
sorority member. Mary Langdon, 
PanHel social chairman, is in 
charge of arrangements for the af5 
fa iris.
Pan Hel is the governing body of 
the sororities on campus and is 
made up of representatives from 
the different organizations. Other 
functions include the control of 
rushing and the PanHel workshop,
Theta Xi Takes Second Place; 
KKG Wins Sorority Varieties
A record crowd of more than 650 couples witnessed the awarding of the competi
tion cups at the culminating event of the Homecoming weekend Saturday night. Gayle 
Saxson, freshman Homecoming Queen, awarded the first place trophy for fraternity house 
decorations to Alpha Tau Omega. The prize winning display was based on the comic strip
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------?character Gordo and was
| made up of three individual 
parts.
The first part of the display 
showed a bull, painted red 
and black, the colors of Wash
ington and Jefferson, getting ready 
to charge a bull-fighter. The sec
ond part of the sequence showed 
the bull charging past the bull
fighter and the third depicted the 
bull running into the wall of the 
bull ring.
Theta Xi Wins
The second place award was 
presented to Theta Xi fraternity 
whose display had Alley Oop 
swinging a stone axe at the head 
of a large dragon. Written on the 
dragons chest wTas the inscription 
Welcome Alumni. The third 
place trophy went to Delta Upsilon. 
The DUs used the comic strip 
characters Maggie and Jiggs to 
help carry out the theme. Jiggs' 
was seen sliding down a bannister 
railing aiming his foot at the heads 
of Washington and Jefferson that 
were sitting on the pedestal. Mag
gie was shown swinging her fa
miliar rolling pin at the heads also.
The theme of the house decora
tions this year was based on comic 
strip characters, welcome alumni, 
and beating W & J. The house 
decorations were judged by three 
judges having no connection with 
any of the participating groups. 
The other comic strip characters 
used were Dennis the. Menace, 
Little Abner, Pluto, Pogo,* 
Little Lulu, Fearless Fosdick,* 
Little Iodine, and Joe Palooka.* 
Varsity Varieties 
Varsity Varieties, held for the 
first time in the recreation room of 
Morewood Gardens, produced some 
interesting skits. The first place 
trophy was presented to Kappa 
Kappa Gamma whose skit included 
a garter raid by the knights from 
W & J and based on the theme of 
Prince Valient. Alpha Epsilon 
Phi placed a close second with 
their Little Lulu in Greek chorus 
skit, while honorable mention went 
to Chi Omega for their skit based 
[Continued on page 31
photo by PluggeAbove is shown the winning display of the fraternity house 
decoration competition. Alpha Tau Omega took first place and used 
the theme of Gordo.
Tech To Host 
Church Groups
Tech Christian Fellowship will 
be host this Friday night at the 
monthly meeting of the Inter
varsity Christian Fellowship 
chapters of the Pittsburgh area. 
Inter-Varsity members of Pitt and 
P.C.W., along with Nurses Christ
ian Fellowship groups from West 
Penn Hospital, Shadyside Hos
pital, Pitt Medical Center, and 
Presbyterian Hospital will be 
among those gathered together at 
the Carnegie Union for an evening 
of Christian fellowship starting at 
8 p.m.
The highlight for the evening 
will be a message on the very cur
rent topic, peace of mind, which 
will be given by Rev. William 
Larkin. A complete program is 
planned with refreshments to 
follow. A welcome is extended to 
all Tech students to attend and to 
become acquainted with InterVarsity Christian Fellowship.
Paul Robb will be this weeks 
guest speaker at Tech Christian 
Fellowships regular 12:30 p.m. 
Thursday meeting in room 132F 
of Administration Hall.
Officers Elected 
For Coming Year 
By Junior CFP
The Junior Council of Fratern
ity Presidents has recently an
nounced its officers for the 
semester. This organization is 
patterned after the Council of 
Fraternity Presidents and is made 
up of representatives from the 
different fraternity pledge classes.
Frank Smith, Alpha Tau Omega, 
was elected president and Don 
Nelson, Beta Theta Pi, will take 
charge of secretarial and financial 
matter.
Chuck Hull Wins 
Ugly Man Contest, 
Receives Trophy
Last Saturday at the Homecom
ing dance, the winner of the Ugli
est Man On Campus contest. 
Chuck Hull of Sigma Nu, was pre
sented with the UMOC trophy and 
key. The trophy was a mug shaped 
to resemble the head of the ideal 
ugly man and the key was en
graved with a similar face. Hulls 
total of more than $90.00 in con
tributions to Campus Chest gave 
him a big margin over his nearest 
competitor.
The UMOC contest is run each 
year by Alpha Phi Omega; milk 
bottles and photographers for each 
candidate are set up in Skibo and 
donations made in the candidates 
bottles count at the rate of one 
vote per cent contributed.
_ pnoio uyThe picture shows a part of the prize winning skit used by 
Kappa Kappa Gamma to capture the first place trophy in Varsity 
varieties. It was based on the comic strip prince Valient.
VOL. 48No. 8CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., NOV. 9, 1954

---------------------------------------------------

Page ΗCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 9, 954
Tartans Get By W&JPresidents 21-0
X
By Jim Lacey
Before a jubilant Homecoming crowd at Forbes Field of more than 5000 people, Tech 
not only won its seventh straight but the mythical Class B.title as well, as the Tartans got 
closer to their objectivethe first undefeated season in the schools history.
At something less than its best, the sub-par Plaid team was too good for the scrappy
Prexies, who very definitely out-^-----
fought the heavier and more 
experienced Tech line. From the 
beginning of the game it was a 
succession of breaks for the Tar
tans who could not capitalize on 
them until Phil Jeske stepped 
back and flipped a ten yard pass 
to Roy DeVries who went into the 
endzone for the score. Roy then 
converted for the first of three.
Tech Gets Breaks 
In the first quarter Tech inter
cepted two of Daglish's passes, 
one by Phil Jeske and one by 
Tony Capul, but couldnt budge 
the stubborn Prexie line. More 
breaks were added to the list in 
the second period when John 
Williamson recovered a fumble on 
the W & J four yard line, but 
Tech fumbled on the next play.
Then came two blocked punts, 
one by little Art McGuigan, and
Statistics
TECH W.i J.
8First downs itotal)11
7By rushing7
0By passing4
1By penalties0
42Rushing plays (number of)49
193Yards gained rushing14:3
33Yards lost rushing9
160Net gain rushing136
9Forward passing inumber att.)18
aNumber completed7
0Number had intercepted5
40Net. gain passing107
51Total plays rushing and passing 67
200Total net yards gained243
2Punts O number I3
32'2 Average yards7 2'3
0Had blocked2
1Punt returns (number)1
aPunt returns (yards)18
iKickofr returns inumber)4
14Kickoff returns i yards)55
5Interception returns (number)0
58Yards returned0
aFumbles (number)4
3Ball lost on iumbles2
1Penalties (number)4
5Yards penalized33
iMHiphoto by Toia
Action in Saturdays encounter with W&J. DeVrios running 
back an intercepted pass and Schell and Kennedy bring down Greskovich.
the other by the whole Tech for
ward wall. which Tech capitalized 
on when Jeske tossed to DeVries.
After an exchange of punts 
W & J got going, with Daglish 
calling the plays and Greskovich 
and Goodwin running the ball. 
They drove to the Tech 15 only 
to lose the ball on downs. There 
was another exchange of punts 
and on the first running play Ai 
Schell recovered a Prexie fumble 
on their 44 yard line. On success
ive plays Briner, Quatse and 
Kennedy carried the ball to the 
23. where Tucci whipped a spiral 
into Bill Kennedys hands for the 
TD.
Smith Streaks 52 Yards
After the second Tech score, the 
Prexies again started to march, 
only to see the drive halted when
DeVries intercepted a pass, the 
fourth interception of the game. 
Taking a pitchout from Jeske, 
little Frank Smith ran through 
the W & J team like a will-othe-wisp for 52 yards before be
ing thrown out of bounds. DeVries 
and Blatt punched through the 
line to the one where Jeske went 
over for the final score.
Next week Tech hosts the tough, 
high-scoring Lehigh Engineers 
from Bethlehem who have beaten 
Tech four years in a row and will 
be the last hurdle for the Tartan's 
undefeated season. Since the con
tract with Lehign is expiring this 
year, this may be the last time 
the two teams will play each 
other for quite a while. It may
be well that it should be this way, 
for against much lesser teams than 
Lehigh, the Tartans have given a 
poor account of themselves, as 
was witnessed last week against 
W & J.
CARNEGIE TECH21
Left endFicery, McGuigan. Cassett, 
Luchok.
Left tackleWengrzyn, Butler. Novak.
Left guardCapul, R. Weaver, Karcher.
CenterSchell, Kohan.
Right guardWilliamson, Jones.
Right tackleMcCarthy, Thomas.
Right endHrosik, Bercik, Stofan, 
Shellhammer.
QuarterbackJeske, Tucci.
Left halfbackBrines, Myers. Schmitz.
Right halfbackKennedy, DeVries.
FullbackBrown, Quatse, Blatt, Peo
ples.
IM Football
The muddy encounters of last 
week resulted in a three way tie 
in the Tartan league and decided 
the first and second' place teams 
in the other two leagues.
The SAEs and the ATOs 
fought to a tie in the first game 
that they^ played last week, 24-24, 
as darkness prevented the teams 
from playing the eight play play
off, whereupon the IM Board 
ruled that the entire game be 
: played over. The second game 
ended with the ATOs out in front 
29-12, creating the three way tie 
that now exists. Monday the 
SAEs and KSs will play, the 
loser meeting the ATOs Tuesday. 
The winner of Tuesdays battle will 
; play the winner of Mondays 
game, the outcome of which will 
! decide the league champion.
In other games last week, the 
ATO B team beat the Obelisks 
15-3, the Delts looked pretty good 
whipping the TXs 20-10, while 
the Betas forfeited to the SNs 
and the ASCE forfeited to the 
Static Charges.
University 
Bowling Alleys
on Craig St. off Forbes 
OPEN NALLEYS ON 
SATURDAY and SUNDAY
Harriers Lose Title 
Geneva Wins 34-45
As expected, the Gillies-Weaver dual proved to be the 
highlight of the Tri-State meet Friday, and provided the 
1800 people who attended with one of the fastest and most 
exciting races run in Tri-State competition. Mai Gillies
got off to a fast start and set the4----------------------- ---------------------
pace, as he and Homer Weaver, of
Geneva, practically sprinted the 
first half mile. After setting the 
pace for the rest of the pack, 
Gillies lost his lead to Weaver 
midway in the race and never 
could quite regain it. He pushed 
Weaver from that moment until 
the finish, with Weaver almost 
running himself into unconscious
ness. The times were 20:43.3 for 
Weaver and 20:45 for Gillies.
The crowd, not having quite 
settled itself from the above duel, 
was brought to its feet seconds 
later when Jackson of Geneva 
and Techs MacDonald came into 
the stadium, with the Happer 
leading by a few feet. Jackson, 
who is a half-miler, put on his 
sprint and passed MacDonald. 
Hap, who was running an in
spired race, put on a sprint of his 
own, and the two sprinted the 
last quarter of a mile shoulder 
to shoulder, with Hap pulling 
away from Jackson twenty yards 
from the finish to win by six 
inches. ^
Tech took second, fifth and 
seventh, while Geneva took first, 
fourth and sixth, but lack of depth 
gave the meet to Geneva who 
came up with 11 and 12, while 
the Tartans had to be content 
with 14 and 17. Geneva finished 
first and Tech second.
This meet sort of set the stage 
for Techs track meet with Gen
eva, which will be run in the 
Skibo bowl and will probably
IM Schedule 
Of Activities
&
The Intramural Board an
nounced the activities schedule for 
the rest of the year.
Activity Play BeginsVolleyball ............................November 15
Tablg Tennis (Team) ..November 15
Water Polo ......................... December 2
Bowling ...............................December 4
Fool .......................................January 3
Co-Rec. Volleyball .............January 4Basketball ........................January 6
Handball (Singles and
Dobules) ..............................January 10Handball (Team) ...............February 14
Table Tennis (Singles
and Doubles! ..............March 1, 2
Rifle.........................................MarchSwimming Meet ...............March 23
(Conditioning begins March 7)
Foul Shooting ...................March 28, 29, 30
Soccer ....................................March 28
Intramural Night................March 25
Horeshoes ..............................April 16, 23
Track .....................*............April 18. 20, 22Softball ..................................April 25
Rosters for various sports were 
announced.
Volleyball, 12 men.
Ping Pong, 12 men.
feature another duel between 
Weaver and Gillies, but this time 
in the mile run.
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, and 
GIFT SELECTIONS 
 TRY US FIRST 
Oakland Hardware3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
rooo.
ao
Creole Petroleum Corporation
I I 'onid rsCiLe Do ^)au
THANK YOU
for the interest shown in our organization during 
our recent visit to your campus. If you were 
unable to schedule an interview and 
are interested in
EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES
m
VENEZUELA
Plan now to see us on our return *
visit in the Spring or forward your qualifications 
by mail to 350 Fifth Ave., New York, N. Y.
%
When you pause...make it count...have a Coke
CmiO UNOfR AUTHORITY Of TM COCA-COLA COMPANY IV 
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY Or PITTSBURGH
Blit Center Avenue
"Coke" i*  reylttered trod* mark.
HIUn4
c 1954, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, November 9, lt54-CARNEGIE TABTANPace 9
Theta Xi and Delta Upsilon Displays
Awards Presented At Dance 
Climaxing '55 Homecoming
[Continued from page 1] <
on Terry and the Pirates.
The recreation room at Morewood Gardens was filled to capacity 
with Carnegie Tech students, members of the faculty, and guests 
who came to see the seven sororities present their original skits. 
Directing the program was Bar-4 
bara Hall, with Bill McDonald 
servipg as stage manager and John 
Conboy acting as master of cere
monies.
Skits Named
As a prelude to the major part 
of the program, a parody was sung 
by John Conboy and Jeanne Allen 
on the disappearing nature of the 
sun over Pittsburgh. Music was 
provided 'between the skits by 
Mary Ellen Ruth.
The individual skits, in order of 
appearance, were: Delta Delta
Delta, The Divine Comedy; Chi 
Omega, China Night; Kappa Al
pha Theta, The Adams Idioms;
Si|ma Kappa, The Jackson 
Twins; Alpha Epsilon Phi, The 
Virgin Urchin; Kappa Kappa 
Gamma, When Knighthood Was 
In Flour; Delta Gamma, Pink or 
Blue.
Best Pledge Cheer
Sigma Nu fraternity presented 
the best pledge cheer of the pledge 
classes who competed at the pep 
rally on Friday night. This cup 
was also awarded at intermission.
The dance and decorations, 
planned by members of Mortar 
Board and Omicron Delta Kappa, 
carried oat the theme of comic 
strip characters. Two bands were 
featured at the Homecoming Dance 
this year. Baron Elliott played in 
the main Gym and Benny Benack 
entertained in the girls gym.
Home Economics 
Club Announces 
Program For Year
The Home Economics Club, un
der the leadership of president, 
Ruth Peachey, and vice president 
in charge of program, Mary Lynch, 
has announced its program for the 
year. Under the theme Symphony 
for Living, the club will present 
its monthly programs on a musical 
note.
In November the title will be 
Blue Room. Mrs. Florence Forst, 
interior decorator and consulting 
designer, will speak on Creative 
Expression. The Christmas Story 
in Song, the traditional Christmas 
dinner and program will be pre
sented in December.
Programs Planned
On February 16, Mr. John Knox 
Shear, head of the department of 
architecture, will speak on the 
subject, The Tempo Quickens. 
The musical background will be 
Penthouse Serenade. The theme 
in March will be Always. Dr. 
Clifford Adams from Penn State 
University will speak on Har
mony in Fafnily Living.
On April 20 there will be a bus
iness meeting to the background 
music of The Typewriter. The 
meeting will feature the installa
tion of the new officers. During 
Maytime, the club will have its
Joint Swim
Newman Club and Citcom 
Clan are sponsoring a joint 
swim on Friday, November 12, 
at 8 oclock.
Afterwards there will be 
dancing and refreshments in 
the Black Cat loonge. All Cit
com and Newman members 
are invited to attend.
Ballet Theater Set 
For Syria Mosque
The Ballet Theatre, the first 
American-born of the big-time 
dance companies, co-directed by 
Lucia Chase and Oliver Smith, will 
be presented here this season by 
Ballet Theatre Foundation, Blevens 
Davis, president, at the Syria 
Mosque, Monday evening, Novem
ber 15, at 8:30 for one performance j Peachey; vice president, Mary
Lynch; secretary, Grace Conti;
Letters
Council 
Asks Effective 
New Elections
Editor, the Tartan:
Without a doubt one of the 
biggest problems in extra-curricu
lar life at Tech today is the lack 
of interest shown in Student 
Council , and Councils resulting 
ineffectiveness. Within a few 
weeks the student body will have 
a chance to partially remedy this 
situation by voting in the forth
coming Council elections for the 
candidates of their choice, candi
dates who have talfen a stand on 
several important issues facing the 
CIT students today. Briefly the 
most important issues about which 
the campaigning will center are 
the following:
1. Councils action of two weeks 
ago which closed fraternity bars 
final social event, the Senior Tea, I during all all-school social funcat Carnegie Union.
Members Invited
All students interested in the 
programs are welcome to attend. 
Anyone interested in joining the 
Home Economics Club may contact 
Bonita Shields, membership com
mittee chairman, or any of the 
officers or other committee chair
men.
These are president, Ruth
only.
When the Ballet Theatre plays 
here, its stars will be Igor Youskevitch, top-ranking classical 
dancer, Nora Kaye, and John 
Kriza, one of the most vital and 
versatile young dancers in Amer
ica and Pittsburghs own Leslie 
Franzos.
Leading soloists include: Ruth
Ann Koesun, Eric Braun, Lupe 
Serrano, Erik Bruhn, Paula Lloyd, 
Scott Douglas, Barbara Lloyd, Job 
Sanders, Catherine Horn, Fernand 
Nault, Christine Mayer and En
rique Martinez.
The Ballet Theatres repertory 
for the current season will be se
lected from 5 great dance produc
tions, and during the local engagment it will offer: Les Syl
phides, Jardin Aux Lilas, Mamze^le Angot, Rodeo. *
Tickets are now on sale at the 
R. E. Baltz Agency, 632 Liberty 
avenue, Pittsburgh , Pa. and alsq 
at Gimbels and Hornes. Tickets 
are sold at the Syria Mosque only 
on the evening of the performance. 
Mail orders are accepted and 
should be mailed with check or 
money order to the R. E. Baltz 
Agency. Include self addressed 
stamped envelope for the return 
of your tickets. Prices are: $3.50, 
$3.00, $2.50, $2.00, $1.50, including 
tax.
treasurer, Barbara Moore; his
torian, Lou Ann Bryant; art chair
man, Elaine Blind; social chair
man, Jacolyn Connolly; projects 
chairman, Joan Murphy; advisor, 
Miss Melva B. Bakkie; and the co
advisor, Miss Doris Myers.
(IN
(Author of "Barefoot Boy With Choek," ote.)
lfl with Ik MssShuJman
Carnegie Day
[Continued from page 1] 
member of last years freshman 
class.
After Mr. Dale E. Strick thanked 
the members of Mortar Board and 
ODK for their fine^work in organ
izing the Homecoming activities 
and mention'll the list of scholar
ship holders and honor students in 
the Carnegie Day program, 1955 
Thistle certificates were presented 
to Elizabeth Neumann and Thomas 
R. Allen for making the highest 
scores on the Freshman Traditions 
Test.
After Khe completion of the hon
orary calls and awards, the coro
nation processional, with the Kiltie 
Pipers and Scabbard and Blade 
honor guard, took place, and Gayle 
L. Saxon was crowned Homecom
ing Queen by President Warner. 
Raymond Bevilacqua, as the Little 
King, presented some court enter
tainment.
tions except Spring Carnival and 
Homecoming.
2. The vital problem of whether 
Spring Carnival should include a 
float parade.
3. The degree to which Student 
Council should have jurisdiction 
over the intramural sports pro
gram.
4. The proposed Student Union 
assessment which would pay for 
the construction and maintenance 
of the new Student Union build
ing.
5. Councils action of last spring 
which eliminated all class officers 
and delegated their duties and 
responsibilities to the activities 
honoraries.
6. The problem of whether to 
enforce freshman regulations or 
do away with them entirely.
7. The general problems of 
varsity sports. Without a doubt 
the student backing of most CIT 
varsity sports is not what it 
should be.
In next weeks Tartan the elec
tion date will be announced; it 
will probably be the first or 
second week in December. In 
about a week petitions wil be 
ready. Every student roup inter
ested in entering a candidate 
should form a comittee and or
ganize a campaign based on their 
position with respect to the above 
issues and any others they think 
important.
Clearly every Tech student is 
cohcerned to s<fme degree with 
these problems. Now he will be 
given a chance to express his 
opinions.
Sincerely,
Dave Larson 
Elections Chairman 
Student Council
DECEMBER AND MAY: ACT I
Of all the creatures that inhabit the earth, none is so fair, so warm, 
so toothsome, as a coed.This is a simple fact, well-known to every campus male, and, to most campus males, a source of rejoicing. But not to all. To some, the creamy brows and twinkling limbs of coeds are a bane and a 
burden. To whom? To professors, thats whom.Professors, according to latest scientific advice, are human. Stick them and they bleed, pinch them and they hurt, ring a dinner bell and they salivate, comfront them with a round young coed and 
their ears go back, even as yours and mine.But, by and large, they contain themselves. After all, they are men of high principle and decorum, and besides, the board of regent has got stoolies all over. So, by and large, they contain themselves.But not always. Every now and then a coed will come along who is just too gorgeous to resist, and a professor  his clutch worn out from years of struggle  will slip and fall. White though his hair, multitudinous though his degrees, Phi Beta Kappa though his key, he is as lovesick, moonstruck, and impaled as any freshman.But hes far worse off than any freshman. After all, a freshman can thump his leg, put on his linen duster, and take out after the coed with mad abandon. But what can the poor smitten prof do? How, in his position, can he go courting a young girl undergraduate?In this column and the next one, I am going to deal with this difficult question. I will relate to you, in the form of a two act play, an account of a professors attempt to woo a coed.
The scene is a typical office in a typical liberal arts building on a typical campus. In this shabby setting, we find two men, Professors Twonkey and Phipps. They are lumpy and bent, in the manner of 
English lit professors.
Phipps: Twonkey, a terrible thing hag happened to me. A terrible, 
ghastly thing! Ive fallen in love with a coed.
mega,nti Now, now, thats not so terrible.
Phipps: Oh, but it is. Miss McFetridge for that is her name  is a student, a girl of nineteen. How would her parents feel if they knew I was gawking at her and refusing my food and writing her name on frosty windowpanes with my fingernail?
mega,nti Come now, Phipps, no need to carry on so. Youre not 
the first teacher to cast warm eyes at a coed, you know.
Phipps: You mean its happened to you too?
Twonkey: But of course. Many times.
Phipps: What did you do about it?
Twonkey: Looked at their knees. It never fails, Phipps. No matter how pretty a girl is, her knees are bound to be knobby and bony and the least romantic of objects.
Phipps: Not Miss McFetridgesfor that is her name. They are oft and round and dimpled. Also pink.
Twonkey: Really? Well, Ill tell you something, Phipps. If I ever found a girl with pink knees, Id marry her.
Phipps : It is my fondest wish, but how can I, a professor of fifty, start a courtship with a girl of 19?
Twonkey: Very simple. Ask her to 'come to your office for a confeience late tomorrow afternoon. When she arrives, be urbane, be charming. Ask her to sit down. Give her a cigarette.
Phipps: A Philip Morris.
Twonkey: But of course.
Phipps : I just wanted to be sure you mentioned the name. Theyre paying for this column.
Twonkey : Give her a Philip Morris.
Phipps: Thats right.
Twonkey: Then light her Philip Morris and light one yourself. Say some frightfully witty things about English lit. Be gay. Be insouciant. Keep her laughing for an hour or so. Then look at your watch. Cry out in surprise that you had no idea it was this late. Insist on driving her home.
Phipps: Yes, yes?
Twonkey: On the way home, drive past that movie house that shows French films. Stop your car, as though on a sudden impulse. Tell her that youve heard the movie was delightfully Gallic and naughty. Ask her if shed like to see it.
Phipps: Yes, yes?
Twonkey: After the movie, say to her in a jocular, offhand way 
that after such a fine French movie, the only logical thing would be a fine French dinner. Take her to a funny little place you know, with candles and checked tablecloths. Ply her with burgundy and Philip Morris. Be witty. Be gay. Be Gallic . . . How can a nineteen year old girl resist such blandishments?
Phipps: Twonkey, youre a genius! This will be like shooting fish 
in a barrel... But I wonder if it isn't taking unfair advantage of the poor little innocent.
Twonkey: Nonsense, Phipps. Alls fair in love and war.
Phipps: Youre right, by George. Ill do It!
(So ends Act I. Next week. Act II)
Mtx Shalman. 19H4
Thi* column is brought to you by the maker of PHILIP MORRIS 
who think you would enjoy their cigarette.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Telephone
SChenley 1-4557; after hours MUseum 3-2312. for advertising and subscription rate 
call MUseum 2-3990. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
EdHor-in-Chief ......................................................................................................Paul Carmichael
Executive Editor ........................ .................................................. .................................Wilson Sick
Business Manager  .......................................................................... ....................Stan Rosenberg
Managing Editor  .................................................. ...................................................Jo Forsythe
News Editor .................................................................................................................June Sochatoff
Sports Editor .............................................................................................................Lenny Feldman
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Posrt Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special rat 
of postage provided for in the act of February 28. 1925.
Member of the Associated College Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.. College 
publishers representative, 420 Madison Ave., New York City. Subscriptions $1.1# 
per year.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November 9, 1954
EFFECTIVE FILTRATION
the corner of the L on each floor. 
If the fraternity prefers, it can di
vide these floors into rooms ac
commodating two men with study 
and sleeping area partially sep
arated or they can utilize larger 
segments with a common sleeping 
room for 18 men on each floor and 
study rooms accommodating four 
men each.
The fraternity can exercise its 
own ideas of decoration and treat
ment within the walls of its house. 
Furnishings, including the kitchen, 
will be a fraternity responsibility.
Bids for constructing the first 
group will be asked next spring 
and ground will be broken the fol
lowing summer. Completion date 
is set for February, 1956. A sec
ond group on the east side of Car
negie Union may well be under 
way before then.
Cost of each unit is estimated at 
$115,000. Each fraternity moving 
into the first squad will make a 
gift to Carnegie Tech of 25 per 
cent of the cost. The other 75 per 
cent will be amortized over a 40- 
year period and will be paid 
through room rent charged to the 
occupants. Four fraternities have 
already requested housing in the 
first project: Beta Theta Pi, Delta 
Upsilon, Sigma Alpha Epsilon and 
Kappa Sigma.
Other units will get under way 
when more fraternities are finan
cially ready. However, all twelve 
chapters are entitled to suggest 
modifications. A building commit
tee of trustees and the architect 
will consider these modifications.
photo by ToiaOne of the usual occurences at Tech football games is a Scotch 
dance performed by member of the band while the crowd yells 
higher. Last Saturday the band gave it the novel end shown above.
P*pi-Cela Metropolitan Co, PitMitfk H, V.
1216 Wood Run Ave.
off Brighton
Dancing Friday and Saturday 
Jack Mahon and Orchestra
Furnished Apt. near Campus. Three rooms, private bath; 
also two rooms and semi-bath, utilities, laundry, furnace heat, 
reasonable.
MA. 1-0343
Filmdoms Diana Lynn: "I 
think the Miracle Tip is the 
most modern filter... and L&M 
the best-tasting filter cigarette.
David Wayne, Stage & Screen: 
"L&Ms have the best filter of 
them all. Miracle Tip is right! 
Theres nothing like it.
Mrs. Laddie Sanford, Socialite 
Sportswoman: "I love L&Ms. 
W o nderful filter  exceptional 
taste!
for Quality 
or Effectivenessote
jt-bu**0-Isnt it time you tried the cigarette that is
sweeping the country .. breaking record after record... winning 
more smokers in less time than any cigarette ever did!
Why such success for L&M? Its the filter that counts, and 
L&M has the best. You get much more flavor, much less nicotine 
... a light and mild smoke ... because only L&Ms Miracle Tip 
gives you the effective filtration you need.
Enjoy L&Ms king size or regular ... both at the same 
low price. Like thousands, youll say'Theyre 
just what the doctor ordered.**
New "Sllvered*Tip" writes 
the way you do . . . fine, 
medium or broad .7. with* 
out changing points. Re
fills available in blue, red, I 
green or black ink. Get a f
Paper-Mate Pen today I li
o Bankers approve
 Ink cant smear 
er transfer
 Can't leak
Silvered-TIp 
refill*... 49<
less NicotineUGGETT & MYERS TOBACCO CO.
