>1 sat Idle on the Cut, 
<11)0/In preparation for the moving of the tennis ominously towards Sklbo. Does this portend
Carnegie Mellon University,
KB
msamummitimI
By STEPH STINE
Tartan Staffuiriter
At the Student Senate meeting 
Tuesday night, questions arose 
concerning the absence of cur
rent Student Government Presi
dent Natalie Gesmond. Due to 
the effects of a chronic illness, 
Gesmond has been unable to at
tend recent Student Government 
meetings. Yet, contrary to rumor, 
Gesmond will continue to fulfill 
her duties as Student Govern
ment president.
Senators expressed confusion 
regardingthe role ofErik Larson, 
Student Government chief of 
staff, who gave the presidents
report at the Senate meeting, 
announcing that he will act as 
Gesmonds voice. Larsonsresponsibilities concerning Student Gov
ernment will remain unchanged, 
and because he is directly under 
Gesmond in the Student Govern
ment hierarchy, he will function, 
in his words, as Gesmonds eyes 
and ears and voice. In other 
words, Larson will relate the 
events of the Student Govern
ment meetings to Gesmond and 
relay Gesmonds responses and 
decisions to Student Government.
Although this appears to be a 
significant setback to an outside 
observer, Gesmond emphasizes, 
that she will accomplish all she
set out to do last spring when she 
took office. Specifically, she will 
not ignore the projects which have 
been initiated since the begin
ning of her term.
On the whole, Student Govern
ment, including Gesmonds role 
in it, will not be affected by her 
physical absence.
My biggest concern is that stu
dent organizations won't be able 
to talk directly to me at Student 
Government meetings,Gesmond 
said.
However, Gesmond also said 
that any representative of a stu
dent organization who has a con
cern should feel free to contact 
her or Larson.
Inside
WRCT wins legal battle
By KEEGAN FOLK
Tartan Staffwriter
WRCT, CMUs student-operated radio station, 
Has received permission from the Federal Commu
nications Commission (FCC) to expand its broad
cast power and range after a three-year series of 
attempts.
The terms of the agreement with the FCC re
quire WRCT to purchase a directional antenna 
that will limit its broadcast power to the east, but 
boost the power to the north, south, and west. With 
the power boost, WRCT will be able to reach nearly 
a million listeners, a 300 percent increase in audience size, with the broadcast reaching to Neville 
Island in the west, Monroeville in the east, halfway 
to Mars [Penn] in the north, and to all of the South 
Hills suburbs, according to Steve Auterman, 
WRCTs business manager and a fifth year archi
tecture major.
The story of WRCTs quest to boost its power is a 
long and frustrating one. In the summer of 1989, 
WRCT filed an application with the FCC to in
crease the stations power from 100 watts to 1500 
watts, which would increase the stations broad
cast area to an eightto ten-mile radius from its 
current radius of approximately three miles. AcPlease see WRCT, page 5Student body president ill
Chief of staff to represent Gesmond
Classifieds................................11
Comics.......................................L4
Diversions...................................9
Features...................................LI
Forum..........................................6
Sports............................................9
Calendar.................................LI 2
Vox Populi.............................LI 2
THE TARTAN
discrimination allegation
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Staffwriter
A former student in the Drama 
Department, Dick Scanlan, 
charged last week that the de
partment has a policy of discrimi
nating against gay men and over
weight women. As a result of 
Scanlans article, the Office of 
Student Affairs is asking anyone 
who feels there is homophobia in
the department to come forward. 
Michael Murphy, dean of Stu
dent Affairs, says a letter is being 
sent out to members of the drama 
community at Carnegie Mellon 
asking them to come forward if 
they feel that they have been 
treated unfairly.
Scanlans allegations were pub
lished last week in a feature story 
in TheaterWeek magazine. 
Scanlan says that students who
were gay or overweight were cut 
unfairly from the drama program.
Provost [Paul] Christiano is 
sending a letter to students, fac
ulty, and staff, so that people will 
be aware of what the avenue is 
voicing their concerns. It is an 
invitation for anyone to come for
ward who feels that they have 
been treated unfairly, says 
Murphy.
Please see DRAMA, page 4
Kevin Chen/Tartan Photographer Senior drama students Rik Nagel and Allison Metcalf, as Mr. and Madame Mantalini, go completely mental in Nicholas Nickelby.
 Tartans Football slams rival  We preview the new film 
Case Western. Malcolm X
See page 9 See page L9
 Does Student Senate really  The Great American
like students? Smokeout happens this week.
See page 7 See page LI
Senate 
elections 
take place
By FRANK MICHELS
Tartan Staffwriter
There may be surprises in store for student 
organizations at Tuesdays fall budget hearings. A 
drop in enrollment will force Student Senate to cut 
subsidies to fall budget student organizations. In 
addition, there will be a retroactive budget cut in 
the works for all spring budget organizations. The 
budget cut would reduce the amount of money the 
organizations are allowed to spend this year.
All organizations funded by Senate through the 
Student Activities Fee are classified as either fall 
or spring budget organizations. Fall budget orga
nizations are subsidized from the day after Senate 
approves their budget and June 30, the end of 
CMUs fiscal year. Spring budget organizations 
are subsidized from the July 1 after Senate ap
proves their budget until the end of the fiscal year. 
Fall budget organizations receive 10 percont of 
their previous years allocation to uso until their 
budgets are approved.
Senator Michael Loomis, chair of the Funding 
and Recognition Committee (F&R), snys that ap
proximately 500 fewer students nre enrolled for 
the fall semester than was predicted. It was my 
assumption that wed have more money than wo 
ended up with," Loomis said, I felt that we'd have 
$50,000 more than what it turns out we have.
The fall budgets proposed by student organiza
tions for next year call for $132,085 in Senate 
subsidies. Student Senate has about $123,000 to 
spend.
Loomis said that one or two organizations that 
really went over subsidy will bo treated a little 
harshly. He indicated that it would be between 6 
and 10 percent.
We are considering a retroactive across the 
board budget cut [of the spring budgets], said 
Dave Martin, an H&SS senator and a member of 
Please see BUDGETS, pago 5
Senate 
proposes 
budget cuts
By JASON TOGYER
Tartan Staffwriter
Last Monday and Tuesday, Student Senate elec
tions took place in front of Doherty Hall. Approxi
mately 350 votes were cast, which represents about 
six percent of the student body.
Senator Shawn Knight (MCS), chair of Senates 
Public Relations committee, explained that there 
was a possibility that the Senate elections would be 
postponed to last Tuesday and Wednesday, due to 
a lack of Elections Board members to staff the polls 
on Monday. Knight says that members of Student 
Senates Elections Board must be present at the 
voting table.
On Monday morning, only one member was able 
to be contacted, who was sick at the time. Knight 
attempted to postpone the elections until the next 
day, but Tom Strong, staff member at the Pitts
burgh Supercomputing Center and a former Sena
tor, referred to the bylaws stating that once elec
tion days have been established, they cannot be 
changed by any member of Student Senate.
However, this postponement of the elections vio
lated the student body constitution. Article 4, sec
tion 1, subsection A of the consititution states, 
Student Senate must establish and announce the 
Fall election date by the final day of September.... 
As a result, elections occurred as planned on Mon
day and Tuesday.
During the elections, there was a question of the 
validity of two candidates. In order to run for 
Student Senate, the candidate must be have paid 
the Activities Fee.
Paul Sollimo, a candidate from CFA, and Michel 
Robe, a candidate from GSIA, were not on the list 
of Activities Fee-paying students at the elections. 
Both Sollimo and Robe were unaware of this fact at 
that time.
Sollimo is a fifth year scholar, and therefore, his 
Please see ELECTIONS, page 5
Student Affairs reacts to
/> vifacedCruPane,John

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  16 November 1992
THIS JUST IN,..
Conservatives emerge as 
GOP Senate leadership
WASHINGTON November 11 (DJ)  Conser
vatives held tight to the Senate Republican lead
ership in a series of races that furthered the 
Presidential ambitions of Texas Senator Phil 
Gramm but could drive party moderates closer 
to the coming Clinton administration, The Wall 
Street Journal reported.
Minority Leader Robert Dole retained his post 
without challenge, but the remaining caucus 
elections underscored the gap between the Kan
sas veteran and a younger set of ambitious con
servatives whose personal relationships were 
forged in the House in the first years of the 
Reagan administration.
Gramm, who will remain chairman of the Sen
ate Republican campaign committee, is the most 
prominent of this generation. He will be joined in 
the leadershipby Mississippi SenatorTrentLott, 
a former House whip who won a lesser post in the 
Senate hierarchy. Neither man is a natural ally 
for Dole. The minority leader was widely counted 
as supporting Kentucky Senator Mitch 
McConnell, wholost20-19in abid to oustGramm.
AH sides pledged to work together, but the 
internal party conflicts pose a major challenge 
for the leadership in the coming Congress. Doles 
harsh rhetoric in recent days reflects pressure on 
him to confront the new Democratic President. 
Yet this course runs counter to his own instincts 
as an experienced legislator and risks alienating 
moderates who no longer will be bound to the 
Republican side by their loyalty to President 
Bush.
The moderate faction effectively was shut out 
in the races yesterday. And with the exception of 
Dole, the entire GOP leadership will now be from 
the South and West. The same regions are .home 
to many in a conservative rump bloc dubbed the 
214 Group for the room number of its meeting 
place in Vice President Dan Quayles chambers 
off the Senate floor.
This faction yesterday helped to engineer a 
calculated, albeit unsuccessful, challenge to Mi
nority Whip Alan Simpson, Doles second-incommand. It draws on a set of personal alliances 
among former House members who favor a more 
aggressive tactical style nurtured from their years 
in the minority there.
Even among this group, Gramms Presidential 
ambitions are viewed warily. But he was helped 
yesterday by his ties to Texas and pro-Israel 
interests that have made him a valuable fund
raiser for a party that no longer will have a 
President in the White House. The post gives him 
a platform looking toward 1996, although the 
narrowness of the vote testifies to concern about 
his past performance and brusque style, which 
rankles colleagues.
His manner is a striking contrast with that of 
Senator JohnBreaux ofLouisiana, whois emerg
ing in Democratic Party ranks.
The two men were Democratic Boll Weevil 
allies in the House in the early Reagan years, but 
while Gramm moved to the GOP, Breaux moved 
up through the moderate Democratic Leader
ship Conference so aligned with fellow southerner 
Bill Clinton.
Without opposition, Breaux won election yes
terday to the deputy whip position in the Demo
cratic leadership. Together with Arkansas Sena
tor David Pryor, the third ranking Democrat in 
the leadership, Breaux will be a natural ally for 
Clinton. His Southern ties could be important if 
legislative battles break out on regional lines.
Among higher-ranking Democrats, Majority 
Leader George Mitchell of Maine and Kentucky 
Senator Wendell Ford, the second-in-command, 
won election without opposition. Virginia Sena
tor Charles Robb will remain chairman of the 
Senate Democratic campaign committee at least 
through the two remaining Senate races in Geor
gia and North Dakota. But Mitchell is expected 
to make a new appointment next year.
Among those believed under consideration are 
Sens. Christopher Dodd of Connecticut and Bar
bara Mikulski of Maryland.
U.S. Attorney investigates 
handling of student loans
NE W Y ORK, N o vember 12 (D J) 
 A Citibank unit that handles 
government-guaranteed student 
loans is beinginvestigated by fed
eral authorities for allegedly fal
sifying claims on delinquencies, 
according to a regulatory filing, 
The Wall Street Journal reported.
The criminal investigation by 
the U.S. Attorney for the West
ern District of New Y ork began in 
1991 afterthe Citibank unit,Stu
dent Loan Corp., told authorities 
that one of its employees had 
forged documents that overstated 
attempts to reach delinquent bor
rowers. The false claims resulted 
in the unit receiving a $500,000 
reimbursement from agencies 
that guarantee the loans. The 
employees motives were unclear. 
The money was repaid by Stu
dent Loan Corp.
The investigation, which is con
tinuing, centers on whether the 
unnamed employee acted alone 
or was part of a broader, system
atic scheme to defraud the gov
ernment, law enforcement offi
cials say. The employee and 
Citibank, the principal unit of
Citicorp, are aiding in the inves
tigation, authorities said.
In the guaranteed student loan 
program sponsored by the De
partment of Education, delin
quent loans are reimbursed to 
banks if documented attempts 
have been made to track down 
deadbeat borrowers. The depart
ment has detailed rules on what 
a lender must do to receive reim
bursements for student loans, 
such as requiring at least four 
phone calls and a synopsis of each 
call. A Department of Education 
official said the agency has found 
occasional instances of misrep
resentation of the due diligence 
required to obtain the guarantee 
payments.
Student Loan Corp., based in 
Pittsford, N.Y., is the largest origi
nator of guaranteed student loans 
in the country, and among the 
largest holders and servicers of 
loans. It recently filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Com
mission (SEC) to sell an 18 per
cent stake in the company as part 
of Citicorps capital-raising effort.
The investigation was disclosed
in the filing with the SEC. Den
nis C. Vacco, the U.S. Attorney 
for the Western District, con
firmed the investigation of the 
unit and declined to comment 
further.
Student Loan Corp. said it  
doesnt expect further liability 
from the incident or any material 
adverse effect due to the investi
gation.
In August the Student Loan 
Marketing Association, the largest holder of student loans and 
the second-largest originator, 
saidit had offered to buy Citicorps 
$3.2 billion portfolio pf student 
loans and related servicing op
erations.
In the nine months ended Sep
tember 30, the Citicorp unit 
earned $35.2 million, up from 
$18.4 million a year earlier.
This isnt the first time the 
banking giant has found employ
ees overstating revenue.
Last year Citicorp dismissed 
senior executives in its credit card 
processing unit after they over
stated the units revenue by 
around $22 million.
President dismisses high 
state department official
Supreme Court refuses to 
hear drug-testing lawsuit
WASHINGTON, November 10 (AP)President 
Bush today dismissed the State Department offi
cial involved in the pre-election search of the pass
port and citizenship files of Bill Clinton.
Assistant Secretary of State Elizabeth Tamposi, 
a former Republican fund-raiser, was given until 
tomorrow afternoon to clear out her office, State 
Department spokesman Richard Boucher an
nounced.
Boucher said Bush acted after conferring this
morning with Acting Secretary of State Lawrence now.
S. Eagleburger.
He declined to assert that Tamposi had engaged 
in any wrongdoing, saying only that Bush accepted 
Tamposis resignation, which was submitted along 
with those of all other Presidential appointees as 
part of the transition to the Clinton administra-. 
tion.
Boucher said additional details will be made  
available once a report by the State Department 
inspector general is completed a few days from
Supreme Court lays down decisions
WASHINGTON, November 9 
(AP)  The Suprome Court re
fused to revive an invasion-ofprivacy lawsuit; against an auto 
parts plant in Michigan that re
quired all its employees to un
dergo drug testing.
The court, without comment, 
rejected an appeal by a group of 
former employees who said plant 
managers had not linked any ac
cidents or disciplinary problems 
to drug use.
The plant in Kalkaska, Mich.,
owned by Eagle-Picher Industries 
Inc. (EPI) said in July 1989 it 
would begin a drug-testing pro
gram after an undercover police 
agent said most of the 230 em
ployees and some supervisors 
used drugs.
The plant hired a private com
pany to collect urine samples from 
all employees in August 1989. 
Managers told the employees they 
must either undergo the test or 
quit.
A group of former employees
sued after either refusing to take 
the test or being fired after a 
positive test result.
They contended the drug tests 
invaded their privacy and vio
lated the companys disciplinary 
system, and that a division presi
dent defamed them by calling 
them drug users.
The high court in 1989 upheld 
government-required drug and 
alcohol tests for railway workers 
involved in accidents, and for 
Customs workers.
WASHINGTON, November 9 
(AP)  The Supreme Court to
day turned down the appeal of a 
Ku Klux Klan leader convicted 
and sentenced to death for the 
murder of a black man in Mobile, 
Ala., 11 years ago.
The court, without comment, 
left intact rulings that Henry F. 
Hays received a fair trial and a 
proper sentence. Hays was con
victed of the March 21, 1981, 
murder of Michael Donald.
The Supreme Court also agreed 
to decide whether Oklahoma may
impose income and motor vehicle 
taxes on Sac and Fox Indians 
who work and keep their cars on 
tribal land.
The court said it will hear the 
Oklahoma Tax Commissions ar
gument that the Indians must 
pay state taxes because many do 
not live on land the state holds in 
trust for the tribe.
The court, however, refused to 
decide whether non-tribal mem
bers who live and work on tribal 
land must pay state taxes.
The Court also set aside a rul
ing under which aliens in U.S. 
prisons may sue to force the gov
ernment to start deportation pro
ceedings against them before 
their prison terms are up.
The justices told a federal ap
peals court to dismiss the case as  
moot, or legally irrelevant, be
cause the person who sued has > 
finished serving his term.
News briefs courtesy 
Dow Jones, Inc.
Layout by 
Brendan McFeely
Celebrate Tradition
Wt',r/'a Balfour
Glass Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime when they're preserved in a Balfour Class Ring.Sports, academics, degrees, years of graduation, and custom school designs can all be captured in your Balfour Class Ring ... a tradition of excellence since 1931!
Order yours on:
Thursday, Nov. 19.........Baker Hall, 10 am - 3 pm
Friday, Nov. 20...............The Carnegie Shoppe, 10 am - 3 pm
payments as little as $19/month
A $35 deposit is required.
Balfour* No one remembers in so many ways.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  16 November 19923
Student Senate Minutes
STUDENT 
'SENATE
li 233
Meeting of 10 November 1992.
Boll Call at 7:05 pm.
Meeting was called to order at
7:12 pm.
Senators Present: Albert 
(CFA), Altmann (SCS), Dean 
(tM),DeRoss (MCS), Engel (CIT), 
Evans (CIT), Fadl (MCS), Haver
kamp (CIT), Holzman (CIT), 
Kline (CIT), Knauer (HSS), 
Knight (MCS), Loomis (GSIA), 
McGarvey (IM), Martin (HSS), 
Bempel (M.atL.), Robe (M.atL.), 
Singh (CFA), Spaulding (CFA), 
Tomblyn (MCS), Wallhausen 
(HSS).
Senators Absent: Halvaksz 
(HSS), Potthast (HSS), Morrow
(CFA).
Minutes: Accepted by the
Chair.
Special Business:
1. Budget packets were distrib
uted. There is an error in the 
Crew budget. There will be a 
meeting Sunday at 4 pm in the 
Senate office to discuss budgets.
2. Election Results
CFA: Moneet Singh, Matt Mor
row, Paul Sollimo (fall).
CIT: David Andrew Byler, Greg 
Haverkamp, Jonathan Kline, Vic
tor Ortega (fall).
Sean Goller, Ed Leventhal 
(spring).
GSIA: Janet Jaiswal, Sugit 
Bhattacharya (fall); Akshaya 
Parikh (spring).
HSS: Ann Kopchik, Dawn 
Wallhausen (both fall).
Heinz: TIE: 1 will be fall, 1 
spring, JoAnn Holden, Barry 
ORorke.
IM: TIE: 1 will be fall, Heather 
Walker, David Berwick, David 
Blankley, Matt Simon.
Misc: No votes.
MCS: Yamam Fadl, Shawn 
Knight (both fall).
SCS: Court Demas (fall); Brent 
Thomas (spring).
Audience Participation:
Aliya Khan from the Academic 
Calendar Committee submitted 
the proposed 19934 Academic 
Calendar. She is interested in 
any suggestions that you have.
Khan also asked for feedback 
regarding the Latin American 
Festival.
Next years festival will cover
Africa.
If you have any suggestions, 
send e-mail to ak39+@andrew.
Ex-Officios Reports:
Activities Board (Brian Papa): AB Special Events spon
sors Virtual Reality, Thursday, 
November 12,11 am -11 pm, $2 
w/ID. Applications are available 
at the Skibo Info Desk for AB 
Committee Chairs for 19934; 
they are due back Wednesday, 
November 18.
Films this week: Thursday, 
November 12, British Animation 
Celebration at 6,8,10 pm;Friday, 
November 13, Sneakers at 6, 8, 
10 pm, 12 am; Sunday, Novem
ber 15, Hells Angels on Wheels at 
6, 8,10 pm, 12 am. The films for 
the following two Friday s are still 
undecided.
GSO (Lara Wolfson): No re
port.
Greek Council (Christian Bareford): No report.
Faculty Senate (Dean Murphy): There was a USAC 
meeting last week. Two major 
items coming from that meeting 
were:
Academic Integrity we want 
to assess the magnitude and na
ture of the problem with a com
mittee.
Policy on free speech and pub
lic demonstrations  these poli
cies are inconsistent and unclear. 
We will possibly consolidate and/ 
or clarify them. We are looking 
for people to serve on this com
mittee too.
Student Affairs (Tim Foster): Due to surgery complica
tions, Natalie Gesmond will not 
be on campus for the rest of the 
semester. Erik Larson will be sit
ting in on Senate meetings in her 
place.
SDC (Amy Potthast)-.Patriot 
Games, Saturday at 6, 8,10 pm, 
12 am.
Were trying to decide exactly 
how to assess and charge for com
mon area damages in the dorms. 
There are evaluation forms on all 
residence hall pianos so players 
can give feedback on upkeep of 
pianos.
There was a field trip to the 
Carnegie Science Center last Sat
urday. We will sponsor ice-skat
ing in Schenley Park near finals 
week.
Dr. Ruth Westheimer will be 
on campus to speak on March 8, 
1993 at 7:30 pm in the Ballroom 
as part of Sex Week. We need a 
Tent Chair for our Spring Carni
val Committee; contact Scott 
Curtin if interested. Any ques
tions? Email ap33.
President (Erik Larson for Natalie Gesmond):ErikLarson 
will be serving as my representa
tive at meetings for the remain
der of the semester. He can be 
contacted at x4640 or ell7+ 
andrew.
There was a Presidents Stu
dent Advisory Council (PSAC) 
agenda setting meeting today. 
The following agenda items are 
being proposed to President 
Mehrabian for the meeting with 
PSAC on Monday, November 16: 
ethics (both interpersonal and 
academic), personal safety on 
campus, campus community, ac
cessibility of the President and 
advisors.
Treasurer (Jay Laefer): Ive 
looked over the budget packet. 
The Crew budget needs to be re
examined or readjusted. There 
will probably be no money for 
special allocations.
Chair (Matt McGarvey):
Read the resignation from Terrel 
Dean (IM) effective December 1, 
1992.
Old Business:
There was a motion to move 
into committee as a whole with 
Greg Haverkamp as Chair and 
Mike Tomblyn as Secretary. Mo
tion accepted by acclamation. 
Moved into committee as a whole. 
Continuation from last weeks 
presentation and amendment of 
bylaws. Check the bboard assocs. 
student-senate for the bylaws and 
changes made. Presentations of 
bylaws was finished and voting 
on passage will take place next 
week. Motion to move out of com
mittee as a whole accepted by 
acclamation.
Committee Reports:Academic Affairs (Mike Tomblyn): We had a meeting 
last Tuesday. We are trying to 
collect information about com
puter time. Send any problems 
you have with accessing computer 
time to Dawn Wallhausen at 
vw3s+@andrew.
We will be initiating evalua
tion procedures for the CIT cur
riculum next year. We will be 
discussing grading policy with 
CFA officials. Email Mike 
Tomblyn any comments you may 
have.
Campus Affairs (Erik Altmann): The bicycle policy on cam
pus will be summarized in a one 
page guide to cycling on campus. 
Hopefully we will have a draft 
ready to present to Senate next 
week.
Funding and Recognition 
(Michael Loomis): Look over 
the Budget Packet. We will over
ride Fiscal Policy for Crew. We 
will be considering some special 
allocations next week. Check the 
bboard this week for more info. 
We will have to cut budget alloca
tions made last spring to leave 
money for special allocations. 
There will be a meeting Sunday 
at 4 pm in the Senate office.
Public Relations/ Human Resources (Shawn Knight):
Elections were this week. Thanks 
to everyone who helped out and 
congratulations to all the win
ners.
Rules (Greg Haverkamp):
Any rules passed in bylaws only 
take effect after ratification of 
the whole document. We will prob
ably vote on bylaws next week.
Discussion:
Some items discussed this week 
include: poster policy, budget 
hearings, impending passage of 
bylaws, recognition status of Sen
ate, replacement ofthe President,
budgets, and the length of the 
meeting.
New Business:
Michol Robo technically did not 
have his Activities Fee paid in 
time for election. He got the most 
votes of any candidate in GSIA. 
His seat is in question and will 
have to be settled by the Election 
Board.
Announcements:
Orientation counselor applica
tions available at the Skibo info 
desk or Warner Hall.
CMU will be the site of a con
ference to discuss the Endangered
Species Act January 12-14, 
hosted by SEAC.
The AEPi Wing-a-Thon III will 
be November 18 from 7-8 pm to 
raise money for the Juvenilo Dia
betes Foundation.
Amnesty International will 
hold movie night in Morewood 
November 19.
Budget hearings will be next 
week.
The meeting adjourned at 11:05 
pm.Submitted By NAOMI BERNER Edited by KENDRICK K. CHUA
Correction...
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
such an error, contact Tartan Editor-in-Chief Heicli Hoover at 
x2111, or write her in care of The Tartan, Skibo 50.
?I
oo
>cQI00000000(j])00000000|
A Phi O Airport Shuttle
To Pittsburgh Internationa) Airport
Thanksgiving & Spring Break Buses 
Leaving from CMU for your convenience! "Another A Phi O Service!"
Thanksgiving Break 
Tuesday, November 24th
Spring Break 
Friday, March 20th
Buses Leave Every Hour on the Hour 
From Noon to Six O'Clock
Tickets only $6!!
Tickets Sold at the Skibo Info Desk
A Phi O Magic Bus
Round Trip Buses to Major Cities
SAVE MONEY going home for Thanksgiving and Spring Itreaks. Ride A Phi O's
to NYC, DC, Cherry Hill, Philly, 
Harrisburg, Allentown, and King of 
Prussia.
November 24th - November 29th 
March 20th - March 29th
Tickets available three weeks before 
departure at the Skibo Info Desk
Less than half the cost 
of Greyhound!
(based on NY round trip cost)
?I
oAnother A Phi O Service!
ATTENTIONSTUDENTS REGISTERING FOR SPRING 1993 CLASSES 
***The History Department has some updated information for you***
79-239-A3 Child Welfare and Reform: The Juvenile Court, Child Welfare and 
Juvenile Justice (this is a 6 unit course not 9) M. Steketee
79-328-A Understanding Urban Policy Issues Past and Present(this course meets TR from 9:00-10:20 not MW) C. Jacobson
ADDITIONAL COURSE DESCRIPTIONS/COURSE OFFERINGS
79-268-A The Russian Civil War: Political, Military, and Social History 
9 units Section A MWF 2:30-3:20 WEH8427 S. Karpenko
This course focuses in October 1917, the Bolsheviks seized power in Russia and set up the worlds first socialist state. The October revolution was followed by a vicious and bloody Civil War that raged for almost three years. As Whites battled Reds, million of refugees fled the battlegrounds. A new Bolshevik Party emerged from the Civil War experience, stronger and more authoritarian. This course will deal with the military, political, and social consequences of the Russian Civil War. It will examine how the War affected workers, peasants, and the Party; how and why the Bolsheviks emerged victorious, and the bitter price they paid for victory. It will be taught by Professor Sergei Karpenko, a visitor from Moscow, and it offers students a unique opportunity to learn Russian history from an expert from Russia itself.
79-284-A Critical Issues in American Environmental History
9 units Section A TR 10.30-11:50 PH 100 J.Tarr
This course will explore critical issues in the history of the American environment during the last three centuries. Among the specific topics to be covered are changing attitudes towards nature; forms of rural and urban development and environmental effects; the impacts of technology and industrialism; the conversation and environmental movements; and environmental problems and prospects today. The class will follow a lecture/discussion format and will require a research paper.

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  16 November 1992
Crime and Incident Report
11/5THEFT, 4:18 pm. ACMU 
student reported that his over
coat was stolen while he was at
tending a business conference in 
the Skibo Ballroom. The student 
said that at 2 pm, he had hung his 
coat on the coatrack, and upon 
leaving at 3:30 pm, found the coat 
.misBing. The student searched 
the conference table, Skibo Infor
mation DeBk, room 112, and the 
Wherrett Room without finding 
the coat. The long black wool over
coat is valued at $400.
11/5 CRIMINAL ATTEMPT/ THEFT, 5:16 pm. Campus Po
lice responded to a report that 
someone had attempted to re
move a painting from the wall of 
the History Seminar Room.
The painting is mounted to the 
plaster wall with several screws 
set in plastic anchors, some of 
which had been partially pulled 
out of the wall, and the plaster 
around the other anchors had 
been cracked.
The painting is still secured to 
the wall.
11/6 MEDICAL ESCORT,
12:47 am. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
reported that she was having a 
reaction to prescribed medication. 
The student was transported to 
Presbyterian Hospital.
11/6 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 2:35 am. Responding to a 
report of a disturbance in the 
fraternity quad, officers observed 
a CMU fraternity brother run
ning with a discharged fire 
extnguisher. The brother, who 
was given a citation, said that he 
and another brother were re
sponding to verbal harrassment 
from members of another frater
nity.
11/6 MEDICAL ESCORT,
2:49 am. A CMU student re
quested a medical escort to 
Shadyside Hospital, because she 
was suffering from what seemed 
to be a bad cold or bronchitis. The 
student was taken to Shadyside 
Hospital.
ll/6THEFr, 11:45 am. A CMU
student reported the theft of 100 
compact discs from his office in 
Wean Hall to Campus Police,
11/6 THEFT, 3:20 pm. A CMU 
student reported tho theft of a 
small robot from her room. Tho 
robot was n class project.
11/6 THEFT, 6:51 pm. Cam
pus Police responded to an panic 
alarm set off at Hunt Library. 
Library personnel were alerted 
to the presence of an unknown 
person by a CMU student who 
had noticed someone who was 
glassy eyed and smelling heavily 
of alcohol going from study carrel 
to study carrel searching through
personal belongings in unoccu
pied carrels.
The unknown person at
tempted to leave, but was chased 
by a student library employee, 
who retrieved a coat and a wallet. 
The wallet waB missing $45 in 
cash, and is property of a CMU 
student who was informed of the 
theft.
11/8 ASSAULT, 3:43 am. A 
CMU student reported that he 
had been the victim of an assault 
which took place when a mid-size 
blue car with five or six occu
pants pulled up next to him in the 
Skibo driveway.
The driver of the vehicle exited 
the car and asked the student if 
there was a problem. The stu
dent replied that there wasnt a 
problem. The driver persisted in 
asking if there was a problem, 
then proceeded to physically as
sault the student. The student 
was knocked to the ground, and 
one of the passengers exited the 
car and kicked the student in the 
face. The driver and passenger 
then re-entered the car and de
parted.
11/8 MEDICAL ESCORT,
1:15 pm. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
injured her left ankle when she 
fell doing aerobic exercises. The 
student was transported to Pres
byterian Hospital.
11/8 THEFT, 4:56 pm. A CMU 
student reported the theft of a 
radio from a Doherty Hall studio. 
The theft occured between No
vember 5 and November 8. The 
radio was valued at $300.
11/8 MEDICAL ESCORT,
10:14 pm. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
complained that he had been suf
fering with a viral infection for 
the last two weeks. The student 
was taken to Presbyterian Hos
pital.
11/9 THEFT, 3:05 pm. Cam
pus Police responded to a report 
of theft from the Baker Hall com
puter cluster. Reported stolen was 
a Powerbook computer.
11/9 MEDICAL ESCORT,
6:43 pm. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
injured his hand playing rugby 
on tho CFA lawn between CFA 
and Hunt Library. The student 
was transported to Shadyside 
Emergency Room.
11/9 MEDICAL ASSIST, 8:42 
pm. Campus Police and Student 
EMS responded to a report that 
someone was injured on the IM 
field. Upon arrival, it was deter
mined that a CMU student had 
sustained an injury to the left 
collar bone area while playing 
soccer. The student was transported to Presbyterian Hospital, her clothing.University responds to accusations in Drama
SYRACUSE ABROAD
ENGLAND  HUNGARYGERMANYSPAIN  FRANCE  ITALY  POLAND  AUSTRALIA  CZECHOSLOVAKIA  ISRAEL 
Apply now for SPRING 93
 Internships
 Courses
 Field Study
Enrich your learning, your life, your resume.
Substantial Study Abroad Grants ire Available.
For information & catalog: 
1-800-235-3472 
SPRING 93
Conserva University 
Division of International 
Programs Abroad
119 Euclid Avenue 
Syracuse, NY 13244-4170
11/10 CRIMINAL MISCHIEF, 3:22 am. A CMU frater
nity reported that three of the 
windows of its house had been 
egged by an unknown person. A 
total of four eggs were found 
splattered on the windows.
11/10 THEFT, 1:01 pm.ACMU 
student reported the theft of his 
folder, which contained a project 
he was working on. The theft 
occured when he was using the 
scanner in the basement of Hunt 
Library.
11/10 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 3:58 pm. A CMU student 
reported seeing an unknown male 
in the eighth floor womens 
restroom of Wean Hall.
11/10 MEDICAL ASSIST,
5:52 pm. Campus Police re
sponded to a report of an injured 
person in the IM field. Upon ar
rival, it was found that the per
son had sustained an injured 
ankle while playing soccer. The 
person refused transportation to 
the hospital.
11/10 MEDICAL ESCORT,
8:34 pm. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
had complained of an earache. 
The student was taken to Presby
terian Emergency Room.
11/10 MEDICAL ESCORT,
8:51 pm. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
had been experiencing side ef
fects to the prescription medica
tion she was taking.
11/10 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATION, 11:19 pm.
A CMU student received a phone 
call from an unknown person who 
asked the student if she knew his 
identity.
After receiving a negative an
swer, the caller asked the stu
dent if she would take off some of
11/12 HARASSMENT BY COMMUNICATION, 1:30 am. 
A CMU student received a phone 
call from an anonymous person 
who had claimed to have been 
followingthe student around, and 
siad that he was nice looking.
When asked for her identity, 
the caller responded with a first 
name. The caller went on to re
quest a blind date and to say that 
she hadcalledth e Psychic Hotline 
and that their numbers matched. 
The caller hung up when the stu
dent informed her that he was 
going to report this call to secu
rity.
11/12 THEFT, 6:32 pm. A stu
dent reported the theft of his 
wallet from his unlocked room. 
The wallet contained $15 in cash.
11/13 MEDICAL ESCORT,
3:02 am. A medical escort was 
provided for a CMU student who 
had been suffering stomach pain 
since 9 pm. The student had also 
noticed blood in his stool. He was 
transported to Presbyterian Hos
pital.
Compiled by MIKE WALKER
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report under 
the following guidelines:
 Chief of Campus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor-in-Chief the News Editor, and 
the staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of com
plainants, victims, and suspects 
and fraternity names are omitted 
from the printed report. Ethnic 
descriptions and other personal 
details are given only in the con
text of a complete description.
 Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
DRAMA, from page 1
In the letter dated November 
12, Christiano calls the matter 
one of great concern to me and to 
the department.
I am writing to affirm to our 
drama students, faculty, staff, 
and alumni our commitment to 
the support and protection of the 
rights of all members of our cam
pus community, Christiano 
writes.
In particular I want to assure 
you that a clear mechanism ex
ists for bringing forward any con
cerns that you may have that the 
sexual orientation or physical 
characteristics ofindividuals may 
have played an undue role in their 
treatment on the campus, he 
writes. The letter then reprints 
the Universitys statement of as
surance and asks anyone who 
feels that the statement is being 
violated to speak to Student Af
fairs or to the Human Relations 
Commission (HRC).
Our hope is that if people have 
any concerns, they will come to 
speak with me or [SDS professor 
Dr. Otto] Davis, Murphy says. 
Davis is the head of the HRC.
Don Marinelli, associate head 
of the Drama Department, says 
that the department will cooper
ate fully if any type of an investi
gation is launched by Student 
Affairs or the HRC.
We will answer as many ques
tions as they want, Marinelli 
says. There is no shredder in the 
Drama Department.
The article raises interesting 
points, says Scott Safier, a mem
ber of CMUs Association of Les
bian, Gay, and Bisexual Employ
ees. I have every reason to be
lieve theyre valid.
There is a general homophobic 
attitude in drama, Safier says. 
Whether or not its in their grades 
is not the issue.
Marinelli feels the articles fo
cus was unclear. I know I had to 
go through it a few times to get a 
list of the points that were made,
Marinelli says. It was clear and 
obvious that there was a great 
feeling of hurt and anger on the 
part of Dick Scanlan. It was diffi
cult, going through the article, to
separate what he was sayingtook
place in 1981 and what he alleges 
about the department in 1992.
Marinelli says the Drama De
partment will attempt to supply 
any information pertinent to the 
departments actions today, but 
if theyre trying to find out what 
happened in 1981,1 know I cant 
answer that. Marinelli joined the 
department in 1981.
Drama responded to Scanlans 
allegations with a letterin todays 
issue of TheaterWeek, Marinelli 
says. In addition, the department 
has been sending out this official 
response to members of the news 
media that have called.
We believe that its CMUs job 
to train people to set. CMU 
shouldnt be passing judgements 
as to whos too gay to be hired and 
whos not. There are the objective 
methods of whos been a good 
student, and there are the sub
jective methods, he says. How 
much of the subjective stuff is 
making its way into the process? 
Is the cut system using criteria 
like homosexuality or weight and 
is this a fair cut system?
Safier says that some drama 
students are worried that 
Scanlans allegations will dam
age CFAs reputation.
One thing thats been dis
cussed was a fear on the part of 
the students that an investiga
tion could hurt their careers, he 
said. If theres a scandal at the 
school, the schools rating could 
go down.
Our effort is to encourage 
people to come and talk to us, so 
that theres no concern on their 
part about what the climate is 
currently, says Murphy. He 
stresses that all discussions will 
be held privately. You cannot 
overstate the importance of con
fidentiality in this matter.
aniiiilirmwkBL)
Proper Attire 
For The Well-Dressed 
Software Graduate.
Although fashions sometimes seem to change as quickly and with as 
much regularity as the weather, the simplest way to dress for success 
after graduation is still as easy as putting on a Motorola 
\ Codex employee identification tag.
As a wholly owned subsidiary of Motorola, Inc., 
Motorola Codex is the worlds leading independent. 
supplier of complete networking solutions. We pro
vide all the elements for distributed data and voice 
networks, from a broad line of communication V products to a full range of services including sys
tems integration. And when it comes to starting 
a successful and rewarding career, few compa
nies can offer you the unbounded opportunity 
youll find at Motorola Codex.
In order to help us maintain and further strengthen our 
leadership standing, we seek to add open-minded, forwardthinking individuals to our staff in the following area:
Data Communications 
Software Opportunities 
Canton, MA
Several immediate and future opportunities exist in a variety of chal
lenging product development areas for recent graduate and under
graduate degreed students who have achieved GPA's of 3.0 or bet
ter, and possess solid backgrounds in the area of software engineer
ing. These positions will involve performing design, development, 
lest and sustaining engineering functions for our networking products. 
To qualify for these opportunities, applicants must possess an MS 
or BS degree in Computer Science or Computer Engineering, be 
proficient in "C" programming language, and have experience in a 
IN1X* or PC environment.
Applicants must be presently authorized to work in the United States 100 a full-time basis as we are unable to sponsor individuals for the 
purpose of obtaining visas.
If you possess the intelligence and imagination it takes to be a 
leader, we invite you to join us - and finish off your wardrobe. To 
respond, please forward a copy of your resume to: Motorola Codex. 
College Relations l.)eparlment-CARNMI\L 20 Cabot boulevard M i-D. 
Mansfield. MA 020 S-119.V
ire an equal opportunity employer. M ! 1) V.
MOTOROLAcodex

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  16 November 19925
Student Senate holds elections, some seats filled
Cti maneagG OP vGrSagGv lOGa
ELECTIONS, from page 1
Activities Fee is paid by Student 
Affairs, according to Knight. As a 
result, Sollimo was a valid candi
date.
Robe, on the other hand, had 
not paid his Activities Fee when 
he submitted his petition for elec
tion but immediately paid it on 
the day of elections when he was 
informed that he hadnt. The Elec
tions Board voted to validate him 
as a candidate, on the grounds 
that as a graduate student, he 
was unaware that he had to pay 
the Activities Fee to run for a 
Student Senate office.
In reaction to the voter turnout 
last week, Senator-elect Victor 
Ortega (CIT) says that the tumout was pretty bad, and there 
was not enough publicity. Ortega 
encourages more communication 
between Student Senate and the 
student body. He says, I encour
age people to find out who is rep
resentative ofthem/Haverkamp 
wishes to reevaluate the proper 
types of publicity, such as post
ers, for next semesters elections. 
He calls the six percent turnout 
not an uncommon number, but 
Id like to see better numbers. 
Knight, however, is more opti
mistic about next semester. Im 
glad they went off as well as they 
did, and I hope that Ill have the 
opportunity to see them go off 
even bigger and better next se
mester, he says.
Preliminary Student Senate election results
NOTE:CIT Janet Jaiwal Heather WalkerElected to Fall Seats:Election results are not official D. Andrew BylerH&SSMCSuntil at least one week after Greg HaverkampElected to Fall Seats:Elected to Fall Seats:the polls close. During that Jonathan Kline Ann Kopchik Yamam Fadlweek, anyone with a complaint Victor Ortega Dawn Wallhausen Shawn Knightmust file it with the ElectionsBoard.Elected to Spring Seats:Heinz SchoolscsThe Elections Board is Sean GollerTIE for first place:Elected to Fall Seat:expected to declare these Ed Leventhal JoAnn Holden Court Demas. results official this Tuesday. Barry ORorke
GSIAElected to Spring Seat:
CFAElected to Fall Seat:IM Brent ThomasElected to Fall Seats: Michel RobeTIE for seat: Matt Morrow David BerwickAll ties will be broken at the Moneet SinghTIE for seat: David BlankleySenate meeting on Tuesday, Paul Sollimo Sujit Bhattacharya Matt SimonNovember 24.
WRCT receives FCC permission to boost broadcast
WRCT, from page 1
cording to FCC policy, there is a waiting period of 
six months after filing an application, during which 
other radio stations can file proposals that would 
conflict with the broadcast area of the original 
applicant. Within days of the six-month deadline, 
a group of western Maryland Christian radio sta
tions, under the name Hes Alive, Inc., filed an 
application for FM frequency 88.1 (WRCT is at 
88.3) in Murraysville that would conflict with 
WRCTs request for a power boost.
After both stations applications had been re
viewed, the FCC notified the two stations that 
their requests were mutually exclusive. In other 
words, you can have one, but you cant have both, 
said Auterman. Since the FCC cannot be biased 
toward either station in a situation like this, it was 
the beginning of a long battle.
At this point, WRCT discovered some mistakes 
in the application submitted by Hes Alive, Inc. By 
law, there cannot be certain levels of interference 
between broadcasters. Because the stations are 
geographically close and the frequencies are close,
there was a great deal of potential broadcast area 
that would overlap between the two stations. The 
Hes Alive, Inc. application did not take that fact 
into account. WRCT pointed out the mistakes and 
filed a petition with the FCC. This process was 
repeated several times, as WRCT found new mis
takes in each new application from Hes Alive.
At that point, it was looking pretty dismal for 
both of us, because if it kept on going, neither of us 
would get what we wanted, said Auterman. The 
battle had been going on for three years with no end 
in sight.
Every time WRCT submitted a petition against 
Hes Alive, Inc.s application, it cost the station 
between $600 and $1500, more if there were engi
neering problems to solve. The station spent ap
proximately $10,000 out of its regular budget over 
the course of the application/petition process. WRCT 
anticipated an FCC ruling in its favor at some 
point, because Hes Alive, Inc. had had so many 
difficulties with its application, and purchased 
(with the help of Student Senate and GSO) a 
transmitter that could broadcast at 1500 watts.
Unfortunately, the two stations were still in dead
lock.
What the FCC does in a situation like that is to 
schedule a hearing. Both parties go to court against 
each other in front of an FCC administrative law 
judge in Washington, D.C., said Auterman. The 
hearing was set for November 4 of this year. If we 
had gone to hearing, it could have easily cost us 
upwards of $20- to $30- thousand for a week or 
two, said Auterman.
WRCT decided against going to court. Instead 
they chose to change its application. The station 
found that if a directional antenna is used after the 
power is increased to 1500 watts, WRCTs broad
cast area could be directed away from the area 
where Hes Alive, Inc. wants to. broadcast. Hes 
Alive, Inc.s station is east of WRCT, in Murraysville, 
and a directional antenna aimed west would broad
cast WRCT as far, or farther, west as was originally 
intended while limiting transmitting power to the 
east. Since Hes Alive, Inc. had already agreed to 
use a directional antenna in their dispute with the 
television station, the interference problem could
finally be solved. Both stations submitted revised 
applications to the FCC judge they had been as
signed, and both applications were approved. Cur
rently, WRCT is awaiting a construction permit for 
the changes that must be made in the station and 
expect to get approved in two to four weeks.
Unfortunately, WRCTs long and expensive battle 
for a power increase is not quite over. The manage
ment and staff are fairly happy with the results of 
the compromise with Hes Alive, Inc. Howevor, the 
compromise also means buying a diroctional an
tenna that could cost $15,000 and addi tional equip
ment that could cost another $2000. To make 
matters even more difficult, a construction permit 
is only good for 18 months.
Student Senate has boon very helpful. Thoyvo 
provided us with money in the past, and to help us 
reach a settlement... [they] know this is our last 
chance to increase our power, over, said Auterman. 
Air space does not open up often because radio 
stations do not go out of business, they just change 
formats. But WRCT needs about $18,000 in the 
next 18 months, more than Senate can provide.
Schenley Park bridge closed to all traffic
By DECLAN McCULLAGH
Tartan Staffwriter
Starting today, the Schenley 
Park bridge over Boundary 
Street will be closed to all ve
hicular traffic for over one and 
a half years, according to the 
City of Pittsburghs Depart
ment of Engineering and Con
struction.
Don Killmeyer, the citys 
Bridge Division manager, said 
the bridge is being shut down 
for major rehabilitation, 
which will take up to 614 cal
endar days, or about 20 
months.
The bridge is completely 
closed to to vehicular traffic, 
but will remain open to pedes
trians and bicycles, said 
Killmeyer.
The total cost of the con
struction project is $5,213,267,
with a portion to be paid for by 
federal and state funds.
Work to be done on the bridge 
includes replacing bridge sup
port structures, repaving the 
surface, and repainting.
According to Killmeyer, the 
time it takes to complete the 
project depends largely on the 
amount of work the contrac
tor, A & L Inc. of Belle Vernon, 
completes this winter.
The bridge was supposed to 
be closed the last day of Octo
ber, said Brenda Gales, an 
employee of the citys Central 
Park Division Office. When 
people come to work on Mon
day, theyll have to find an al
ternate route.
The city has posted detour 
signs to route traffic around 
the Carnegie Museum onto 
Forbes Avenue to Schenley 
Drive.
Senate F&R Committee plans budget cuts
BUDGETS, from page 1
F&R, the number that was men
tioned was 6 3/4 percent.
We cut and cut and cut but we 
didnt cut enough, Martin said, 
we are looking at cutting further 
... [especially] some of the groups 
that went into deficit last year. 
They went over budget when we 
gave them a decent amount, and 
were going to go further.
One of the organizations that 
may feel the effects of the budget 
cuts is the University Rowing 
Club, which requested an alloca
tion of $28,135 this year, exactly 
what was allocated last year. Jay 
Laefer, Student Government 
treasurer, said that last years 
allocation was a special case.
Last years subsidy was a one 
time occurrence not to be re
peated, Laefer said. Im very 
surprised that they proposed the
budget that they did, and Im 
very surprised that F&R recom
mended it. |
As far as Im concerned, crew 
has no reason to expect to receive 
another $28,000 allocation. 
Laefer said that the year before 
last the club received consider
ably less than $28,000, and that 
Senates fiscal policy was over
ridden for crew.
Changes had been made in the 
policy regarding what activities 
of a student organization could 
be subsidized.
Laefer said Senate decided to 
override the policy, because it 
was felt that crew hadnt been 
given sufficient time to adapt to 
the new policy.
Opal Perry, president of the 
Rowing Club, said that Senate 
gave no indication that last years 
allocation was a special case.
Last year we went in with a 
subsidy request, Perry said, and 
its not to my recollection that we 
were not permitted to ask for the 
same amount of funds [this year].
The funding is necessary for 
the survival of the club, said 
Perry, our request reflects our 
needs.
Perry said that the club has 
been looking for donations from 
alumni to reduce some of the
burden that we have to place on 
Senate, but that so far, we dont 
have anything significant.
Loomis said he feels that crew 
has put a lot of effort into raising 
money from outside sources.
I think crew has taken rea
sonable steps to increase their 
fundraising, he said, and quite 
frankly, Im reluctant to punish a 
group thats made a sincere effort 
to raise money.
wsm
<1) 0/KKBIyST1 EPHN1AtP h eAS/t uddn)a  Music m/S)iKAS
Pittsburgh Symphony Cellist Gail Czajkowski shares her thoughts 
on the excitement of a live performance of Ravel's Bolero
Its always fun to play Bolero because 
you know the audience is really going 
to respond at the endafter that 
long build up. Its really great 
when wc get that kind of 
reaction from the audience.
This weekend, 
Maestro Lorin Maazel 
presents a captivating 
all-Ravel program, 
featuring the composer's 
hypnotic Bolero.
Thursday, Nov. 19,7:30 p.m. Friday, Nov. 20, 8:00 p.m. 
Sunday, Nov. 22,2:30 p.m.
RAVEL I. 'enfant et les sortiloos (The Child and the Enchantmenls) -complele concert performance RAVEL Rapsodie Espagnole RAVEL Bolero
LORIN MAAZEL, conductor JENNIFER LAflMORE, mezzo soprano EWA P0DLES, contralto SUMI JO, soprano MARIO BOLOGNESI, tenor DAVID EVITTS, baritone VIRGINIA DUPUY, mezzo soprano KEVIN GLAVIN, bass CAROL ANN ALLRED, soprano
Thursday, 6:45 p.m. and Sunday. 1:30 p.m.: "Inside the Music," musical discussion with PS0 Resident Stall Conductor Kirk Muspratt, Irom the Heinz Hall stafle.
Tickets: $14-$35Student and Senior Rush; $10. one hour prior to performance, with I.D.can 392-4900Or visit the Heinz Hall Box Office.
USAir is the official airline of the Pittsburgh Symphony. Guest artist transportation provided by Mercedes-Benz of North America. Inc. W0ED-FM/89.3 is the Voice of the Pittsburgh Symphony. Friday is USX Corporation Night and Sunday is Duquesne Light Afternoon at the Symphony.
Student Rush Tickets Available!Only $10Bring your student ID to the Heinz Hall Box Office ONE HOUR before the concert and get a regularly priced ticket for just ten bucks, 
(seats subject to availability)

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Silent constituents 
suit some Senators
During the points of discussion segment of Tuesdays Student Senate meeting, Senate Chair Matt McGarvey (IM) said audience members should not speak except during the segment of the meeting specified for audience participation. McGarveys explanation was that the Student Government is a republic, not a direct democracy. Michael Tomblyn (MCS), Academic Affairs chair, agreed. Tomblyn went on to say that he does not like the caucusing at Senate meetings, when audience members go up to the table to speak privately to Senators.These comments were absolutely out of line. It is preposterous that Senate purports to represent the student body, yet some Senators do not want to hear student opinions at its public meetings.Senators can say theyre a representative body if they like, but the facts are that one-third of the Senate seats stand vacant, and even though elections were held last week, a number of seats will remain empty at the beginning of next semester. The current Senate was elected by less than 15 percent of the students.Those numbers make us question Senates true representative status. Senate does have the power to act on behalf of the student body, but saying that it is truly representative is ridiculous. Several Senators have said that students should talk to their Senators before meetings to address concerns and issues that will be discussed in Senate. Unless Senate plans to fully publicize absolutely everything that is going to go on at Senate meetings well ahead of time, this is impossible. If students dont know what is going to happen at meetings before the meetings, how can they let their Senators know their feelings about it? Excluding students who are clairvoyant, audience members need to speak at Senate meetings.Also, some students have found that their Senators cannot be trusted to bring up issues that are important to them, even if they are addressed ahead of time. In this case, students have no other recourse than to bring their concerns before the entire Senate  and the entire Senate should be willing to listen and act on those concerns.At this point, very few students seem to care about Senate and what it does. This could be attributed to the fact that some Senators seem to care very little about students and what they think. Again, it appears that this is a case of Senate wanting to do what it wants, when it wants, without anyone it supposedly represents calling it on its actions.Some individual Senators do care, and they should be outraged at the fact that other Senators, specifically the chair of Senate and the chair of Academic Affairs in this case, are making Senate as a whole look extremely bad. Now would be an excellent time for Senators who are actually interested in the students to take a stand.
Fiscal woes deserve 
intelligent solution
Because of a shortage of money from the Activities Fee, Student Senate has to make some decisions about cutting organizational budgets at the fall budget hearings Tuesday. Many organizations will be affected by any decision Senate makes, with some facing a greater deduction in their funding than others. One plan currently in discussion is retroactively cutting spring subsidies by 6.75 percent in order to make up the shortfall. This seems to unfairly penalize all the organizations that have spring budgets and have already made plans based on the approved allocations.There is another idea that Senate should consider, along the lines of freezing subsidies for spring and fall at the 91-92 levels. For every group that receives money from Senate, there should be a comparison of the 91-92 allocation and the 92-93 amount, either already approved or up for consideration. The 92- '93 allocation should be the lesser of the two amounts. While some organizations would still lose a portion of their funding, this plan makes the cuts less arbitrary, and does not penalize organizations that requested less funding this year.If there is still not enough money left, Senate should start cutting budgets based on past
fiscal behavior  organizations that consistently run over budget, for example, should be more closely examined. Also, there are a few groups that receive too much Senate funding, and should face deductions before other organizations. The Political Speakers Forum Board (PSFB) is a logical choice for cuts. It was allocated $36,000 and appears to have done very little so far this semester, while AB Lectures has done a good job of bringing in speakers.Club sports consume a large portion of the Activities Fee, and Student Senate should not be expected to continue doling out Activities Fee money to them. The University should start funding club sports immediately, like it funds intramural sports now. If this is not possible, we propose that club sports be cut based on the size of their subsidies and financial record. The Carnegie Mellon Rowing Club (crew), for example, receives a large subsidy, and has again requested funds for boathouse rental, despite previous promises not to, according to Student Government Treasurer Jay Laefer.Whatever plan is decided upon, some organizations are going to lose. Student Senate needs to be more careful in its consideration of budgets, and must dole out the Activities Fee more responsibly.
Letters to the Editor
Dramas actions raise 
discrimination questions
onEditor:
I think that there are 
shades of meaning in 
the discussion of the dhGGhP tO 
Bloody Monday afth pHi+nr 
fair that do complicate U,C 
the issues. It is, of course, perfectly obvi
ous that it should be of no particular 
concern to gay, lesbian, bisexual, and 
women students whether or not the 
Drama department cuts 10%, 50%, 90%, 
none, or all of each class, or whether or 
not they are motivated by crass commer
cial concerns or personal ambition in so 
doing. The question is whether or not, in 
carrying out this policy, the Department 
treats some gay men, and some women, 
with prejudice.
It is patently clear that an actor should 
be able to act, and I think that it is 
stretching things a little to claim that 
the ability to temporarily suppress or 
reproduce particular mannerisms com
mon in gay male culture should not be 
regarded as an acceptable target, inter 
alia, of acting. The question is whether 
the department treats mannerisms as
sociated with the culture of some mem
bers of one group (i.e., the campy man
nerisms of some gay men) differently 
than it would treat those of other groups 
(e.g. stereotypical mannerisms and ex
pressions of NY Jews, Americans, South
erners, African Americans, the French 
... ). Would the drama department, for 
example, attack a black student so vi
ciously for imperfect adoption of the 
mannerisms of a culturally white char
acter? Would the department cut a man 
for not being able to impersonate a 
woman with perfect fidelity?
The core of the charges brought, which 
I find hard to disbelieve, is that the 
Drama Department has singled out 
campy mannerisms for attention in a 
manner which has discriminatory effect 
against gay men, in much the same way 
in which it has (apparently admittedly) 
used purely venal criteria to select 
women with certain body types for ex
clusion.
Even if it were not the case that this 
had been done, and the Department had 
with equal enthusiasm attacked straight 
men and svelte women for not being able 
to, respectively, swish and play ample 
roles, it would be insensitive of the De
partment to show no apparent remorse 
or delicacy in asking for the suppression 
of behaviours which are, for many gay 
men, part of a gay identity which has 
been built up in the face of often brutal 
attempts at its suppression.
These are certainly questions which 
deserve serious discussion within the 
Department involved, and by the 
University community as a whole.
on
daGGan GO p Ua .StGOn
daGGan to 
GUa Editor
Michael Witbrock Graduate Student, SCS
Student apologizes for 
article in CGrSagG UnionEditor:
While i am loathe to 
admit it, people do tend 
to believe what they 
read in the media.
Knowledge of this 
power often leads to a 
certain amount of hesitancy and self
censorship among those who write for 
mass distribution. I despise self-censor
ship.
Yet i also feel that one should not 
compromise the dignity and feelings of 
another human being simply for the 
sake of a laugh, especially when that 
person takes a deep offense instead of 
brushing it off as ridiculous. Therefore, 
in the interest of preserving truth and 
preventing any real damage caused by 
knee-jerk media acceptance, i fully re
tract my intimative presumption con
cerning m.k. rodgers which appeared in 
Volume 8.6 of the Student Union and 
publicly offer her my most humble and 
sincere apologies.
lenny youngnon-editor, the Student Union senior, music
Pet peeves abound at CMU
Christian M. Restifo
CMU is the perfect place for pet peeves. Sol thought Id take 
this week to analyze those pet peeves unique to CMU that 
sometimes make life a royal pain. In other words, lets look at 
the gripes students have. Who knows? Maybe Mehrabian will 
listen a little bit.
Gripe the first: Physical Plant. Would someone please tell 
me if it is required for Physical Plant to do the least amount 
of work possible and to do that work at the oddest hours? Last 
winter, during finals, Physical Plant decided to work on the 
pipes in the basement of Scobell. I awoke that day to an 
incredibly loud clank as metal clashed against metal. There 
was a brief pause followed by, Gee, I wonder if that will wake 
them up. Funny, I thought people liked a quiet environment 
during finals s<ji they could study. I must be wrong.
Gripe the second: Skibo and breaks. Why must security lock 
all the doors during short breaks when a good number of 
students remain? They really seem to love locking the set of 
doors that face the parking lot on the side closer to the Cut. 
The doors by Grey Matter that face Gesling Stadium also 
appear to be fair'game. How many of you have walked all the 
way around the building looking for an open door?
Gripe the third: Them spring fix em ups. Did you ever notice 
how this campus falls to pieces during the year until events 
like Carnival, Homecoming, and Commencement? Suddenly, 
all the workers come out of hibernation. Repairs are made, 
things are cleaned up, and the look of the campus is improved. 
I hope to God that whoever does this doesnt think that its 
going to impress important people like alumni. Theyre not 
stupid. After all, they went to school here, so they know what 
the campus looks like the rest of the time.
Gripe the fourth'. Professors who run late in class. These 
people really irk me. I am more than willing to give a professor 
some extra time every now and then so that he or she may 
finish explaining a subject. When he or she consistently runs 
over, however, it really screws things up. If a good number of 
people have the same class after the current one (as do a 
number of upperclassmen), then the next class starts late. 
The cycle gets repeated. Usually, I show my discontent by
packing up at twenty after. After all, thats what the schedule 
says.
Gripe the fifth: Columnists in The Tartan. If theres one 
group worse than lawyers, it must be these weenies. Not only 
are they opinionated, but they also think that anything they 
say has to be right. As they see it, to question or argue against 
them is to show your own stupidity. Maybe they should all be 
fired... uh, wait a minute. Forget I mentioned this. Lets go on 
to something else.
Gripe the sixth: The new phone system. Every time I make 
a call with one of those cheap plastic phones, I feel as though 
Im using a Playskool phone. Im waiting for the person on the 
other line to say, My name is Cindy, and I want to be your 
friend. Can you come over and play? Grrrrr...click. When I 
hang up, I have to hang up three times and wait a few seconds.
Would someone please tell me if 
it is required for Physical Plant to 
do the least amount of work 
possible ... at the oddest hours?
If I dont, I activate some feature that connects me to a 
random room on campus. Besides, you cant slam the phone 
down when youre mad because youll smash it into a million 
pieces.
Gripe the seventh: All the cow dung that gets dumped on 
campus in the spring. I saw Physical Plant dumping some a 
while ago in front of Hammerschlag Hall. I havent taken 
biology in a while, but I seem to remember something about 
plants not growing too well in the winter.
Gripe the eighth: The mailings that get stuck in your 
mailbox. Now, I love getting mail. Ever since I was old enough 
to be put on a mailing list for an advertiser, receiving mail has 
been one the few pleasures in my life. Its rather anticlimactic when I find yet another piece of paper from the 
administration stuck in my box. I also find this to be an 
extreme waste. The next time this happens to you, go by the 
West Wing mail room and see how many of those leaflets are 
thrown about. Wouldnt it be smarter and cheaper to have 
someone put up the flyer as a poster near the mailboxes? That
Please see GRIPE, page 7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  16 November 19927
Senate takes offense at student input
Christian M. Restifo
Approximately one year ago, 
when Student Senate released 
its resolution concerning dis
crimination against gays by the 
mAmg I went ballistic. Never be
fore, I thought, have I seen such 
incompetent, clueless people 
claiming to act on behalf of the 
student body. After a large 
amount of debate and discussion, 
however, I came to know several 
of the Senators.
In general, I found most of them 
to be rational and productive 
people. Students were just too lazy 
to open their eyes and see what 
Senate was doing for them. De
spite the bad press that it some
times got, Senate made honest 
attempts at constructive goals.
All this time, Student Senate 
literally begged students to come 
to meetings and provide their in
put. Many, many times Senators 
said that they wished their con
stituents would talk to them, and 
I lost track of how often Senators 
urged people to get involved.
My already shaky faith in this 
system was crushed at the last 
Senate meeting. In four hours, I 
saw Senate deny students the 
opportunity to speak, claim that 
said students were inconveniencing them, and take several ac
tions without any clear idea of 
what they were doing.
In order to limit discussion, 
members of the audience were 
not allowed to speak during dis
cussion of the proposed bylaws 
unless their points concerned an 
amendment that had been pro
posed and was currently being 
examined. To add insult to in
jury, the few people who were 
actually at the meeting received 
a lecture from several Senators 
about how audience input during 
business slowed the whole pro
cess down. One Senator went so 
far as to suggest that members of 
the audience had so retarded the 
rate of progress that we should 
simply do away with a represen
tative form of government and 
shift to a town hall style of pure 
democracy.
Members of the audience were 
reprimanded for talking to their 
Senators. Of course, this state
ment completely disregarded the 
fact that amendments can be pro
posed and passedduringthe same 
meeting. In such a situation, the 
student body has no time to con
sult with its representatives. So 
much for representative govern
ment.
Both audience members and 
Senators were chastised for talk
ing to others while debate went 
on. As another member of the 
audience put it, what else are 
students to do when they are not
technically permitted to raise 
questions and new concerns?
In all the Student Senate meet
ings which I have attended, audi
ence attendance has been pitiful. 
In fact, I am probably one of the 
five people who show up simply 
as students and not as represen
tatives of other organizations.
make sense. This leads me to my 
next point. I doubt Senate, in its 
current state of affairs, could do 
anything sensible. For a clear 
example of why, one needs only 
to look at the change made in the 
bylaws concerning service orga
nizations.
Under the old bylaws, service
I saw Senate deny students the 
opportunity to speak, claim that said 
students were inconveniencing them, 
and take several actions without any 
clear idea of what they were doing.
Questions and arguments raised 
by the audience during business 
account for only a fraction of the 
meeting time. The rest comes 
from the Senators themselves.
Now by a strict interpretation 
of the rules, the audience can 
only speak during audience parorganizations could obtain fund
ing for certain items such as food 
that other funded organizations 
must supply on their own. Senate 
eliminated this category, the rea
soning being that it shores up 
several problem s. First, just what 
is a service organization? The
ticipation. However, the Chair of Tartan and A Phi O are definitely
Senate can recognize whomever 
he or she wants. In the past, this 
courtesy has been granted to the 
audience, and I hope it continues. 
To shorten meetings and prevent 
useless debate, however, Senate 
should look to rules that limit not 
who can speak but how many 
times a person may speak and for 
what length of time.
Of course, such a plan would
service organizations, but what 
about others? For that matter, 
what are the current service or
ganizations?
While such a move is reason
able and needed, Senate made 
this change without any idea of 
whom it would affect. Senator 
Josh Knauer put it best when, 
after the amendment had been 
passed, he asked what Senate
just did and whom would be af
fected. You can argue the merit of 
service organizations all day, but 
its clear Senate acted without 
really thinking hard about the 
issue.
Several problems now remain. 
Will the current service organi
zations on campus still be recog
nized after the bylaws are passed 
and budget hearings follow? Will 
they have to reapply for recogni
tion? How will the issue of money 
for food and other items for these 
organizations be handled? I heard 
several Senators talk about over
riding fiscal policy. Since Senate 
is already in trouble because of 
funding, such a pseudo-policy of 
simply overriding rules for each 
situation would be extremely stu
pid and dangerous.
Given the pitiful turnout that 
occurs during elections and the 
general level of apathy on this 
campus, I might argue that the 
problem lies with students and 
not with Senate. However, when 
I see Senate, with a high and 
mighty attitude, take offense at 
students providing input and act 
without even remotely under
standing the consequences, I see 
only one group to blame.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior 
chemical engineering major. He 
would like to thank Senators 
Knauer, DeRoss, and the few oth
ers who kept some wits about them 
during the last meeting.
Speeding fines are harsher than you might think
craft are not required by law to give you 
some specific amount of time to escape. Its 
entirely up to their discretion.
2) The helicopter might simply ram your 
Jeffrey J. Basista car from above, pushing your cars roof 
down. At best, you lose some headroom in 
your car. You can take your own guesses at 
worst-case scenarios.
It could be worse. I understand that in 
some parts of the country they dont use
Be careful the next time you go driving 
in your car. If you get caught speeding, 
you could be in for more than just a fine.
No, I havent been speeding recently, 
but after a couple of road sign warnings 
concerning speeding caught my atten
tion, I went to great lengths to discover 
exactly what they meant. What I found is 
truly shocking.
Have you ever seen the signs that say 
speed enforced by aircraft, or some
thing likethat? I called some highway 
patrol people and asked them what air
craft enforcement is all about. They 
seemed surprised, and asked Havent 
you ever seen an action movie? 
Apparently, a helicopter comes swoop
ing down toward your car, and one of two 
things can happen:
1) Your car could be lifted up and car
ried away to the nearest car disposal 
location, where the helicopter will dump 
the car into a car compactor. I guess this 
isnt a big deal, but there is a frightening 
part: the arresting officers in the airoverkill in enforcing speed limits, and 
many communities agree, mostly because 
they cant afford aircraft. Signs in those 
communities tend to say Speed Electri
cally Enforced. Im sure, you want to 
know what electrical enforcement is, so 
Ill tell you.
Large cities used to use a long-ranged 
electric stun gun as the enforcement tool 
(these really do exist, although they arent
I called a country police department, and the 
officer mumbled something about behind the 
barn and electric cattle prod and some other 
things I dont remember. Then, he asked,
You're not with the ACLU, are you?
helicoptersthey use jets. Remember the 
Persian Gulf and all those high-tech weap
ons? Where did you think those things were 
tested? For weapons that attack fast-moving, land-based targets, what better test 
scenario could there be than a high-speed 
car chase?
You might think that using aircraft  
particularly with missiles and bombs  is
publicly available). If you were speeding 
on a city street, the supposedly sureaimed officer blasted you with a good jolt 
of electricity. Ive heard that this method 
has gone out of favor because of lawsuits 
raised by innocent bystanders.
What happens now is that the police 
track you down and take you to an aban
doned warehouse, hangyouupside down,
pour water on you, and give you some 
serious shock treatmentwatch a Chuck 
Norris movie if you dont know what Im 
talking about.
Im not sure exactly what happens in 
more rural areas. I called a country police 
department, and the officer mumbled 
something kbout behind the barn and 
electric cattle prod and some other things 
I dont remember. Then, he asked, Youre 
not with the ACLU, are you?
You would think that the ACLU or some 
other group would have contested these 
rather barbaric methods, but how can they 
help? The police, the FBI, and the Armed 
Forces are all in on this. Theres a con
spiracy of silence here. Nobody is willing 
to testify in court, and pretty often, the 
electric shock treatment impairs memo
ries enough that people dont realize what 
happened to them.
Just remember: those masochistic con
spirators are out to get you, so be sure to 
obey the speed limit. Take your time so 
that you can see signs that advertise the 
roads scenic aspects, inclu^ingfallingrock 
and slow children at play. If you really 
want to see that falling rock and those 
slow children, youll have to slow down.
Jeff Basista is a graduate student in 
English.
Gripes unique to CMU often make life a royal pain
Continued from GRIPES, page 6
way, everyone can see it, and you dont have to send out 
thousands of them.
Gripe the ninth: Activities that take place during the 
day. I am dying to go to a Soup and Substance lecture. 
I just have one small problem  a class. I know we cant 
schedule these things around everyone on campus, but 
wouldnt it make sense to hold them during the free time
period? Make it a light dinner or something like that so 
that just about everyone can attend. The International 
Festival was a prime example. Last year they said that 
more events would take place in the evening. Too bad a 
majority of things started between noon and 4:00 pm. 
And they wonder why attendance is so low at events at 
CMU.
Well, those are the nine gripes that I have. There are
many more; that we all probably share, but it would take a 
whole issue of this paper to cover them. If Ive really 
depressed you, dear reader, then I apologize. Take com
fort, therefore, in the words of a former columnist who 
expressed things best when he said, It sure beats Pitt.
Christian M. Restifo is a senior chemical engineering 
major. His tenth gripe is people who bitch too much.
A PERSONS
OPINION
Bill Clinton became Presi
dent-elect a couple of weeks 
Qgo, and feelings are mixed 
about it What do you think 
will happen to the counhy over the next four years 
with Bill Clinton as Presi
dent?
David MiceliFreshmanDrama
I think that something will get 
done regarding personal rights and 
freedoms under this administra
tion, as opposed to nothing thats 
been done in the past 12 years.
Pierre Delaly Graduate Student Physics
I dont know. The President 
doesnt make much of a difference. 
Government doesnt have much to 
do with the economic problems.
Emma Ikawa Freshman H&SS
I dont know. I think that itll be 
a lot different. Itll be hard for citi
zens to accept what he does if he 
does something against what he 
says.
Cesar Sanchez/Tartan Photo Editor
Alan Chu Fifth-year Senior Architecture
Hopefully, the world will be a 
better place.
THETARTAN
Carnoglo Melton's Student Nowspnper 
Slnco 1906
Editor-In-Chief..............Holdl Hoover
Managing Editor..........M.K. Rodgers
Business Mgr..........Timothy S. Blass
News Editor...........Brondan McFeely
Forum Editor................Aaron Jenkins
Sports Editor....................Josh Linder
Features Editor...............Megan Dietz
Diversions Editors ....Barbara Reyes 
Tara M. Seman 
Calendar Editor ...Ellen Hendrickson
Magazine Editors...........Marnl Borek
Daniel Frey
Dossier Literary Ed. Michael Gabriel
Dossier Design Ed......Glen Hoffman
Art Editor....................Ramsey Hong
Photo Editor............Cesar Sanchez
Production Mgr.................Tina L. Urso
Personnel Mgr........Ignatius Sasmita
Copy Manager.........Jennifer Forbes
Systems Mgr............Chad McDaniel
Asst. Business Mgr........Derek Fung
Jin Yong
Asst. News Ed. Kendrick Kerwin Chua
Asst. Forum Ed.....Ruth Rasmussen
Asst. Sports Ed. ...Andy Glendinnlng 
Asst. Features Editors ... Laura McClure 
Laura Palanker
Asst. Production Mgrs........Katie Swango
Derek Wahila 
Photo Staff Mgr. .Samuel Greenfield 
Contributing Editors 
Susan Abrams, Tad Dockstador, 
Stephen Gllckor, D.A. Honderson, 
Mark Hllller, Doxtor Kobayashi, Both 
A. Moaos, Richard Quinn
Sonlor Staff 
Lubomlr Kochanskyj, Davo Martin, 
Christian Rostlfo, Mlko Shapiro 
Staffwritors 
Nicole Allon, Joff Basista, Krlston 
Beverldgo, Trlnotte Chandler, Bob 
Dixon, Bobblo Dofflomeyor, Koogan 
Folk, Dan Gallagher, Erin Grunzko, 
Lauron Heinz, David Hunt, JaBon Irwin, 
Both Macdonald, Chris Maples, 
Declan McCullagh, Corrl Metz, Frank 
Michels, Trupti Patel, Paul Platosh, 
Abby Schiff, Eric Strauss, Andrew 
Sproule, Kelly Sterling, Steph Stlno, 
Jason Togyer, Mike Walker, Jason 
Wyse, Leslie Zubaty 
Art
Jeff Dorsey, Roy Huang
Comics
Michael Beard, Christian Borle, Matt 
Goldberg, Jenifer Mul, Drew Olbrich, 
Elliott Schiff, Jen Thorson
Design 
Matt Adler
Photo
Debbie Bauer, Kevin Chen, Kerry 
Hagan, Reid Hecker, Diane Keen, 
Anne Lopez, Seth Redmore 
Darkroom 
Nathan Hauser, Mac Mirchandani, 
Jen Urso, Gary Wilson 
Production 
Kuo Chlang, Tony Sting deFigio, 
Shiv Dewan, Becky Elroy, Michael 
Gibson, Otis Greene, Alexandra 
Hector, Brockett Horne, Michael 
Peck, Drew Shefman 
Copy
Roshni Bhakta, Nathan Dohm, 
Madhav Ghanta, Yerln Kay, Lenna 
Kydes, Anne Lopez, Catherine Mar
quis, Tonya Rado, Ed Slavlshak, Jon 
Stevenson, Patricia Williams 
Business 
Olivia Raharja, Michael Harris 
Junior Staff 
Laura Bentrem, Andrea Francioni, 
Marybeth Griffin, Karen Grunberg, 
Megan Gurgon, Cheryl Harris, Mike 
Hofsass, Julian Hollingshead, Jenny 
Hsleh, Hsin-Tzu Huang, Lesley Kay, 
Mike Keating, John Kunichlka, Ellen 
Lalumere, Thomas Lee, Sung Lee, 
Monica Leeke, Nina Liang, Ylng Liang, 
Jackie Maher, Paolo Malabuyo, Tanya 
Maynigo, Amy McGovern, J. Ralne 
Pickett, Astrld Rapp, Melissa Reaves, 
Syd Rodriguez, Ben Shelton, ZongJlng Shen, Jon Slenk, Lisa Vitalbo, 
Annie Wang, Adrian Yiu
The Tartan Is the student newspaper of Carnegie Mollon University. It Is a woekly nev/3papcr published by 3tudenta during the fall and springnomos* tors, at no cost to mombers of the University community. It 13 printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available for the semester or academic year. The editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of Tho Tartan editorial board. Columns and political cartoonn ore tho opinions of Individual creotors. Tho Tartan reserves the right to reject or condense any column or political cartoon. Lottoro to thu Editor are opinions of authors who are usually, but not necc33orlly, mombers of the University community. A letter Intended for publication must be signed and Include the writer's address and phone number for verification. Names will be withheld upon request. Tho Tartan requests that letters bo no longer than 350 words. Tho Tartan reserves tho right to condonse or reject any letter. Copyright  1992 by Tho Tartan. Tho Tartan editorial board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: Sklbo 50 (412) 268-2111 Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/Carnegle Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 17 percent funded by your Activities Fee.All rights reserved.Llbrarv of Cortferess ISSN II: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Information Session
Wednesday, November 18 
Skibo Hall, Room 201 
7:00 p.m.-9:00 p.m.
Key players from Technology will be present.
For additional information about career opportunities at Bankers Trust, 
call anytime i-800-551-9333.

---------------------------------------------------

impressive
David Washington, John Thomas, 
John Blanchiak, Eric Ronzio, and 
Gregg Lassan.
UAA Most Valuable Player
Aoeyanv nrg fteu csrStOvO syvO gOGeUav AOseU OP GUa -asn UOgOnv POn wMTkTw vasvOg
PASS
by Paul Platosh
ns$msgG
Americans have had a 
lasting love-hate relationship 
with the bicycle since its 
invention long ago. Cycling has 
always had the undying sup
port of a handful of stalwart 
men and women who sang the 
praises of cardiovascular 
exercise for hours on end, all 
the while scratching their jock 
itch. But no matter how much 
they begged and pleaded, 
cycling never got the attention 
of the American people.
Until now. Here, at 
Carnegie Mellon University, 
cyclists have re-examined the 
American mind, and decided 
that in order to gain popular 
support fpr their sport, the face 
of cycling had to be changed. 
They decided that Americans 
didnt want to hear about a 
bunch of people who dressed in 
neon Spandex, hopped on their 
bikes, and pedaled around until 
they got tired.
No sir, Americans just 
werent interested in a sport 
where you didnt hit a ball, 
bash someones head, or use 
wooden sticks to whack each 
other. So cyclists at CMU took 
matters into their own hands, 
and added that spice of violence 
into their sport that we all 
know and love.
No longer would a cyclist 
cruise around campus benignly, 
yielding to pedestrians on 
sidewalks. Finish lines were 
forgotten only to be replaced by 
score cards. You no longer had 
to get from point A to point B to 
win; you had to strike as many 
pedestrians as possible. The 
cyclist who plows into the most 
pedestrians, wins.
Of course, merit points are 
awarded on the basis of injury 
inflicted to the pedestrian. For 
example, knocking the oppo
nent out of his Reeboks is 
generally more impressive than 
simply causing a massive head 
wound. Naturally, tire tracks 
across the opponents forehead 
are very rare, and therefore, 
very valuable. And if you can 
stamp BMX somewhere onto 
your opponents person, youre 
really racking up the points.
And now, the sport is 
spreading like wildfire. Cross
ing the Cut is more dangerous 
than setting up a picnic in the 
left lane of the Pennsylvania 
Turnpike. On some days, you 
can see more rubber than a 
dead skunk on 1-80. But pedes
trians and cyclists alike are 
both excited and invigorated at 
this opportunity to break up the 
monotony of walking to class 
every day. 
Already, the cycling indus
try is expanding to meet the 
growing demands for this new 
sport. Lightweight bumpers, 
seatbelts,' and day-glo infrared 
night vision goggles are being 
stocked. Though the mountain 
bike is generally considered to 
be the best choice for beginner 
cyclists; some experts are 
Pting for the ten speed, prefer
ring its agility to the mountain 
bikes plowing power.
Seeing the success that the 
revamped sport of cycling has 
made, other sports with the 
same lack of popular support 
such as swimming, golf, and 
ping-pong have begun revamp
ing their programs to allow for 
more blood. The Cross Country 
team, for example, plans to 
start carrying aluminum bats 
during practices and meets.
Paul Platosh is a sophomore 
Professional and creative 
Writing major.
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor
Alan Horn, a fifth-year senior 
sweeper and back for the mens 
soccer team, was named the 1992 
University Athletic Association 
(UAA) Most Valuable Player on 
Wednesday by UAA coaches. In 
the balloting, Horn was repre
sented on seven of the nine bal
lots, giving him the nod over the 
other players. In UAA play this 
season, Horn scored two goals, 
had one assist, and allowed the 
opposition to score only a meager 
six goals in the seven games. He 
was also named to the All-UAA 
team for an unprecedented fifth 
time, for he suffered a seasonending injury early in the 1991 
season. Overall, he had eight 
points this year with three goals
and two assists.
Joining Horn on the All-UAA
Alan Horn
first team were teammates Mike 
Brazinski,a junior defender, and
junior goalie David Shapiro. 
Shapiro, who allowed only seven 
goals in 1165 minutes (0.54 aver
age), set the Carnegie Mellon 
record with 25 career shutouts 
this season, while tying Sam 
Montagues 1984 record with 10 
season shutouts. This fall, he had 
30 saves in the 15 games he played 
in before suffering a season-end
ing back injury in the game 
against Emory.
Brazinski, who only recently 
transferred to CMU from the 
University ofVirginia, was one of 
the catalysts of the team, scoring 
six goals and having two assists 
(14 points).
Coach Nick Gaudioso and his 
staff were named the coaching 
staff of the year by UAA coaches 
for their 12^4-1 record and thirdplace finish. No one was safe,
with CMU defeating Co-Cham
pions Emory University, 2-0, and
eOrnGavo OP 6GUyaGte !amsnG$agG 
Nick Gaudioso
seventh-ranked WashingtonUniversity, 1-0, in the final week of
the season behind the awesome 
goalkeepingofShapiro and soph
omore Dan Warren. The 12 victo
ries tied the school mark set in 
1985 and 1990.
The womens soccer team, who 
had a very good showing for their 
second year of varsity play, were 
represented by sophomore de
fender Anh Nguyen on the sec
ond-team All-UAA team. The 
womens team, in their first year 
of UAA conference play, posted 
an 0-6 conference record, but 
showed incredible signs of im
provement and brilliance towards 
the end of the season.
With the two soccer forces that 
CMU possesses, othor UAA 
schools must watch out in the 
immediate and distant future for 
mons and women's conforenco 
champions.
Football destroys Case Western
By JOSH LINDER
Tartan Sports Editor
In the first game of the newly created 
rivalry between Case Western Reserve 
University and Carnegie Mellon, the 
Golden Slide Rule goes to Carnegie 
Mellon with the 3314 victory.
The game, which at one point in the 
second quarter looked close, turned out 
to be a blowout for the mighty Tartans. 
The game began with Case Western 
sophomore receiver Joel Gabele return
ing the ball 49 yards, giving the Spar
tans excellent field position. Their drive, 
however, was stopped by the Tartans 
defense, and a missed field goal gave 
CMU the ball at their own 20 yard line. 
With their first drive, the Tartans drove 
the ball as far as CWRUs 46, thanks in 
large part to a 24 yard pass from sopho
more quarterback Chris Dee to junior 
wide receiver Jarrod Siket. Although 
CMU did not score on their initial drive, 
the game started to go their way begin
ning with CWRUs second drive. After 
receiving an illegal procedure penalty
that placed them at their own four 
yard line and completing a short drive, 
CWRU was stopped by junior line
backer Chad Wilson with a sack of 
junior quarterback Brett Ramsey. A 
bad snap on a punt attempt went out 
of the endzone, giving CMU two points 
on the safety. A 20 yard return by 
Blockbuster Player of the Game sopho
more Jim Filicko put CMU at their 
own 43 yard line. Shortly after, Dee 
completed a pass to junior tight end 
Scott Peters for their second touch
down connection in as many games.
The second quarter was closer than 
the Tartans would have liked. After 
CMU scored a touchdown on a Brian 
Horton run (with the extra point by 
senior kicker Fred Harding) in the 
early minutes to make the score 17-0, 
CWRU came back with a vengeance. 
A roughing the kicker call on a field 
goal attempt gave the Spartans new 
life, and allowed them to drive into the 
endzone, to tighten the score to a 17-7 
mark. A furious coach Rich Lackner 
watched his team squander the 170
lead when Case Westerns Ramsey 
completed a pass to senior split end 
Alex Nagle. Carnegie Mellon would 
not settle for a close game, so a 23 yard 
pass to Filicko quickly broke the game 
wide open, and allowed CMU to go into 
the intermission with a 24-14 lead.
The second half, however, was all 
CMU. Filicko, who had 76 yards rush
ing, 53 yards receiving, and 20 return 
yards (for a total of 149 yards), scored 
once in the second half, which put the 
game out of reach for the Spartans. A 
second sack, in the fourth period, gave 
CMU the 33-14 win, and a 3-1 UAA 
record (good for second place behind 
Rochester) and 7-2 complete record 
for the year. Case Western finished at 
2-6-1 with a 1-3 record in the UAA.
The Blockbuster Player of the Year, 
chosen by WPITs Randy Cosgrove, 
went to senior captain Matt Pielert, 
who had nine tackles in Saturdays 
game. Although it was a tough choice 
between Pielert and junior linebacker 
Chad Wilson, Pielert was the most 
and consistent.
Bs$vao LOgENsnGsg 6nG .StGOn 
With his excellent play at wide receiver during the
1992 season, junior Andy Van Sprang has been given 
the honorary Golden Finger Award.
Mens basketball ready to 
net successful season
By LUBOMIR KOCHANSKYJ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
The mens basketball team re
turns this season more experi
enced, confident, and prepared. 
Virtually the whole team has re
mained intact from last season, 
with the addition of a 
number of highly tal
ented recruits. Despite 
an 8-14 record last year, 
aspirations and goals for 
this season are running 
high. Head coach Tony 
Wingen, now in his third 
season at Carnegie 
Mellon, is highly optimis
tic about the 92-93 sea
son.
The Tartans
frontcourt will be led by 
junior Derek Dragisich, 
a 67" forward/center who 
averages 14.2 points and 
8.4 rebounds per game. 
Dragisich was seventh in 
the league in free throw 
percentage last season at 
81.6 percent and eighth 
in rebounds, averaging 
7.1 per game. Dragisich 
has scored 652 career 
points. He is joined by the other 
high scoring junior forward Mike 
Hosni, a second team all-UAA 
selection last season. Hosni aver
ages 15 points a game and has 
amassed 690 points over his ca
reer. He was ranked fifth last 
season in the UAA, averaging 3.6 
assists per game. Rounding out
the frontcourt is 6'7 junior who has performed enormously 
Charlie Connors, a forward/cenin pre-season is ~
ter who averages 8.3 points and 
6.4 rebounds per game. Connors 
career has been interrupted by 
injuries, but he starts this season 
in top shape. Other returning 
players who will battle under the
Charlie
season
6vGntS BsmmENsnGsg IUOGOnsmUan 
Connors (44) slam dunks the ball In a preexhibltlon game.
boards are juniors Andy 
Rentschler and Matt Reiprish,
6.7 points per game. Reiprish was 
third last year in the UAA in 
three point shooting percentage 
at 48.3 percent. He was also 
eighth in the league with 1.4 
steals per game. Seven of the new 
recruits are also forwards. One
6'6,-200 lb. shooter out of Walsh 
Jesuit in Ohio. The other new 
recruits include Steve Hartman,
The backcourt is in the 
able hands of the teams 
two captains, seniors 
Chris Benec (4.5 points 
per game) and To&d 
Jenkins (6.3 points per 
game). Jenkins led the 
team last season with 6.2 
assists per contest, and 
ranked second in the UAA 
with a total of 68. He also 
finished second in the 
league in three point field 
goal shooting with 47.6 
percent. Joining the cap
tains are guards Rony 
Johns, Steve Athanas, 
and new recruits Joe 
OHara and Kenny Pugh. 
Johns, a six foot junior, 
averages 9.5 points per 
game. Last year he was 
sixth in the UAA, shoots 
ing three pointers with 
44.9 percent. Carnegie 
Mellon also has two new assis
tant coaches. Coming from 
CCACBoyce, where he posted a 
112-63 record is defensiveminded coach Mike Walendziewicz. He is joined by Brian 
Murphy, who was a player and 
assistant coach at John Carroll 
University in Ohio.
BrRo sggtUtysGav 6$antesg
By MIKE KELLER
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
On Saturday, the Carnegie Mellon rugby club met American 
University (AU) for its final fall match. The first of the two games 
against AU this year, played in Frick Park, was dominated by a 
finely-tuned CMU squad.
CMU won almost all ofits scrums and lineouts. In the rucks and 
mauls, CMU scrummers showed a ferocity that was a key factor 
in winning the match. AUs scrum had bad transition from its 
scrum to its scrum-half and then to its fly-half.
CMU backs also proved that their skills were superior to those 
of AUs backs. Outside center, Steve Graham, was continually 
there to support his fellow backs, When he got the ball, he ran 
powerfully, often breaking numerous tackles to go the distance. 
Their backs rarely got the ball, and when they did, they almost 
never got it out past their inside center.
The first half began with AU lacking to CMU. Tartan scrummers 
drove up the field, offering continuous support for one another. 
Within 10 minutes, CMU was awarded a penalty kick about 30 
meters from AUs tryline. CMU elected to go for goal. Graham 
quickly got CMU on the board by splitting the uprights for three 
points.
Almost immediately following the kick, Graham again put 
points on the board for CMU by scoring two successive tries. The 
first began with a perfectly-timed pass from junior inside center 
Iron Mike Lopacki to Graham. He took the paBS at mid-field, 
proceeded to weave his way through the hapless AU defenders, 
and then touched it down in the tryzone for five points. The second 
try entailed Graham receiving a pass a few meters from AUs 
tryline and then running through a few AU backs for a try. 
Graham made both kicks after to put CMU ahead 17-0.
Late in the first half, senior eight-man Chris Devlin scooped up 
the ball and ran it right up AUs gut. Commenting on his run, 
Devlin said, By God, sometimes a man has to do what a man has 
to do. So, I just put my head down, said a quick little prayer, and 
ran like there was no tomorrow! Graham missed the kick after 
to make the score 22-0 at half-time.
For the remainder of the game, CMU was forced to play defense. 
After a rough maul between the two scrums, the ball got out to the 
AU backs. CMU was caught off guard as AUs inside center 
danced past several CMU hacks and into the tryzone. The kick 
was wide, leaving the final score 34-5.
Iyasva vaa BYcD-9 msa w3

---------------------------------------------------

Carne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o CW R,Tewbei CSSu
IM News
SPORTS IN SEASON
WATER POLO
Commissioners:
Mike Kappus, x5302 
Joanne Kievan, x5900 
Lifeguard Denise Fenwick,
 x<1046, will be on duty during all 
scheduled matches. Please return 
all equipment to its proper place 
following the last match of the 
evening. The playoff schedules 
are posted on the IM bulletin 
board.
SOCCER
Commissioners:
Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Intermediate  Dave Ekern, 
x5354
Minors  John Stack, 361-0274 
Women Only  Molly McDer
mott, 682-3529 
Standings and rescheduled 
games are posted on the IM bul
letin board. Finals will be played 
this week. Check the playoff 
schedule on the bulletin board.
BOWLING
Commissioner: i
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Matches are rolled on the For
ward Lanes on Forward Avenue 
in Squirrel Hill, 422-5844. Please 
pay all fees to the commissioner.
VOLLEYBALL
Commissioners:
Majors  Buddy Feitt, x5371
Intermediate  Dave Ekern, 
X5354
Minors  John Stack, 361-0274 
Women Only  Molly McDer
mott, 682-3529 
Final matches started last Mon
day. Check the IM bulletin board 
for playoff schedules. Standings 
are posted on the IM bulletin 
board.
RACQUETBALL
Commissioner:
Jim Saxon, x5482 
Schedules are in the IM Office. 
Matches will be played on Mon
days, Tuesdays, and Wednesdays 
from 8 to 11 pm. Please report 
winning scores to the IM Office.
CO-REC WATER POLO
Commissioners:
Mike Kappus, x5302 
Joanne Kievan, x5900 
Teams are still needed to start 
the league.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
Commissioner:
Jon Wei, 688-9504 
Please play all matches as 
scheduled. Report your scores to 
the commissioner.
DARTS
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Please play all matches as 
scheduled. Report your scores to 
the commissioner.
FENCING
Commissioner:
Randy Bruno, x8672 
The sabre tournament was held 
yesterday. There will be a team, 
three-weapon tournament held 
on Sunday. Teams for the tour
nament must bemadeupof three 
fencers. Call the commissioner 
for times.
THREE PERSON VOLLEY
BALL
Commissioner:
Jim Saxon, x5482 
Matches start tomorrow. Pick 
up your schedules in the IM Of
fice.
BACKGAMMON & BRIDGE
Commissioner:
Buddy Feitt, x5371 
Matches begin next week. Pick 
up your schedules in the IM Of
fice.
BUSINESS
The IM Board Chri stmas lunch 
will be held on December 9 at 12 
noon in Skibo room 105. Board 
members please sign up in the 
IM Office.
The next IM Board Meeting 
will be on Thursday at 12:30 pm 
in the IM Office.
Compiled by 
ANDY GLEND INNING
Club hockey team puts UPJ 
in its place with 10-2 win
C,t$$tg Gas$ vGsnGv vasvOg ,tGU OOS 
vUO,tgv sstgvG WOUg AsnnOyy sgS pYI
By ERIC STRAUSS
Tartan Staffwriter
The CMU swim teams both got 
off the blocks quickly this season, 
despite very opposite records. The 
mens team defeated John Carroll 
University, 116-84 on November 
7, and then edged Division II foe 
Indiana University of Pennsyl
vania, 108-97 last Saturday. 
Meanwhile, the womens team 
did well, despite dropping both 
matches with a 128-35 loss to 
IUP.
So far, were doinggreat, head 
coach Jim Cutrono said. Both 
teams are a lot faster than they
were at this point last year. Both 
have a lot more depth, too. All the 
freshmen and newcomers have 
swum well for us. The men had to 
swim very well to beat IUP. 
Theyre a tough Division II foe.
In the meet with Indiana, one 
of those freshmen, Geoff Waller, 
paved the way with three wins: 
the 200 individual medley, the 
200 butterfly, and the 400 
freestyle relay.
Other members of that relay 
team also picked up individual 
wins. Senior Ted Beatty took the
50 freestyle, and freshman Matt 
Moe won the 200 freestyle, while 
junior Todd Vandall took second
By DAVE MARTIN
Tartan Senior Staffwritter
Saturday afternoon, the 
Carnegie Mellon hockey team 
took on league opponent Univer
sity of Pittsburgh at Johnstown 
(UPJ) in Monroeville coming off 
of an 8-3 win against Penn State 
West. CMU continued its league 
dominance by beating UPJ 
soundly and getting a large num
ber of players on the ice, as well 
as getting players who hadnt 
scored yet this season in the scor
ing column. Defense continued to 
be CMUs strong point, despite 
the fact that the team is averag
ing 8.2 points a game. They are 
only allowing 3 points per game. 
CMU leads the Western Penn
sylvania College Hockey Associa
tion with a record of 5-0.
The first period started with a 
twist. After fighting for control of 
the game for four minutes, UPJ 
scored first on graduate student 
goalie Scott Berry. UPJ fought 
for their early lead for nearly six 
minutes before graduate student
center Dave Umland scored un
assisted to tie the game. With 
less than three minutes remain
ing in the first, CMU went on a 
scoring tear. Sophomore Dan 
Kodesh scored after getting the 
puck from junior Greg Haverkamp at 14:02 to take the lead. 
Twenty-four seconds later, 
Haverkamp scored his first goal 
of the year, with the assist com
ing from Umland, to put CMU up 
3-1. Twenty seconds later the 
teams leading goal scorer fresh
man Greg Hans scored the final 
goal of the period, getting the 
puck from Umland and doctoral 
student Dave Collins.
The second period seemed to be 
indicative, at least early on, of 
CMU hockey. Senior George 
Mueller scored after the assist 
from graduate student Scott 
Sarbacker to take the CMU lead 
to four. UPJ scored with 9:03 re
maining in the second to cut the 
deficit to 5-2. Umland, who leads 
the team in assists, scored his 
second goal of the game less than 
30 seconds later, with the assist
going to Hans. With 4:22 remain
ing in the second period, Umland 
managed a hat trick, his third 
goal of the game, again the assist 
from Hans, extending CMUs lead 
to 7-2. With just under two min
utes to play in the period, Ted 
Miller scored on a power play 
unassisted. With three seconds 
left in the period, Sarbacker 
scored to put CMU up 9-2. As
sists went to Umland and Hans.
The third period was a bit dif
ferent for CMU as they only scored 
one goal to finish the game 10-2. 
Collins scored at 8:36, assisted by 
seniors Adam Duncan and 
Mueller. UPJ couldnt score on 
CMUs second goalie, Bill Nickols, 
who came in with five minutes 
left in the second period and 
warded off eight of UP Js 16 shots.
Next week, CMU will take on 
West Virginia University at 
Golden Mile Ice Arena in 
Monroeville. CMU beat WVU on 
their home ice last year to win the 
league championship and are 
expecting another tough WVU 
team this year.
in the 200 individual medely.
Waller also won two events in 
the meet with John Carroll, while 
junior J.P. Lae won two events, 
and freshman Chris Graefe won 
another'.
For the women, freshman 
Becky Frehan had the highest 
place against IUP with a second 
in the 100 freestyle and won a 
pair of events against John 
Carroll. Junior Denise Fenwick 
also picked up two wins against 
John Carroll.
The team travels to another foe 
on Tuesday, facing Westminster 
College. Its nexit meet after that 
is against Gettysburg College.
BrRo eO$myaGav vreeavvPry Psyy vasvOg
BYcD-9 PnO$ mOO F
The mutch was calm compared to CMU's previous 27-5 victory against Ambridge mens club, which 
can best bo summed up as one long brawl. After losing three straight games early in the season, CMUs 
rugby club has bounced back. It has won three straight games with an average winning margin of 20 
points. CMU standout scrummer, sophomore Marcus Schlcgel, summed up the rugby clubs fall season 
by noting, Earlier this soason, it seemed as if we were all a bunch of individuals. In these last three 
games we have come together as a team. Right now, I sense a lot of love between these guys. After many 
dismal seasons, CMUs rugby club finished its fall season with a winning record of 4-3 and is looking 
favorably towards its spring season.
Career opportunities 
at J.P. Morgan
for Carnegie. Mellon students interested in
Global Technology and Operations 
Sales, Trading, and Research
Please plan lo allenii oar 
information presentation on 
Monday. Xorember 23 
Skibo llall, Iiooii / 3 
6:30 pm
All majors welcome
JP Morgan
J.P. Morgan is an equal opportunity employer
PREREQUISITE: ADRENALINE
Drive. Intensity. Those aren't words you're 
likely to see in many courso requirements. 
Then again, Army ROTC is unlike any 
othor elective. It's hands-on excitoment. 
ROTC will challenge you mentally, and 
physically through intense leadership 
training. Training that builds character.
self-confidence and decision-making skills. 
Again, words other courses seldom use. But 
they're the credits you need to succeed in 
life. ROTC is open to freshmen and sopho
mores without obligation and requires 
about 4 hours per week. Register this term 
for Army ROTC.
ARMY ROTC
THE SMARTEST COLLEGE 
COURSE YOU CAN TAKE.

---------------------------------------------------

rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o CW R,Tewbei CSSuCC
NFL playoff picture lacking 
shape with tight races
NFL COLUMN
by Dave Martin
So far this year, I havent made any 
strong predictions about who will par
ticipate in the Super Bowl. I groaned 
that it didnt really matter, that the 
NFC team would win the Super Bowl 
whoever they faced and whoever they 
were. Well, I still stand by that bit of 
prognostication. But its time that I sur
veyed the field and gave you a clear view 
of how the playoffs will shape up. (Of 
course, my clear view is someone elses 
clouded one.)
In the AFC East, Buffalo and Miami 
are tied for first place. My choice for this 
division is later on in the column. The 
other team will certainly pick up the 
home advantage bye week wildcard spot. 
The AFC Central is a bit trickier. -No 
team has really established itself as very 
dominant. All of the teams have dropped 
division games and only two games sepa
rate the top from the bottom. But the 
Central division will become much more 
clear with time. Cincinnatti could move 
into a wildcard position before being 
pushed out by Houston. Cleveland 
doesnt really have what it takes to take 
the division.
The AFC West isnt all too muddled. 
The mess there is approximately the 
same mess they had a year ago. Look for 
Kansas City to move into first place by 
the end of the year, currently trailing 
Denver by a game. Denver will probably 
secure a wildcard spot. So might San 
Diego.
Things in the NFC are bit simpler, as 
far as division champs go. The East 
division is all but locked up by the Dallas
Cowboys. This is the team to beat in the 
NFC. The teams only loss came at Phila
delphia on a Monday night, when the 
Eagles quarterback Randall Cun
ningham was effective. This division is 
also the tightest, with as many as three 
other teams still looking for playoff posi
tions. Philly and Washington will prob
ably get them.
Minnesota has a commanding lead in 
the Central division. The Vikings are 
the only team in the division with a 
winning record. They have that divi
sion, and no other team will get a 
wildcard bid.
In the NFC West, the situation is simi
lar. The Saints and Niners are battling 
for the division, going into yesterdays
This year, the AFC will 
belong to a team from 
the Central Division.
game tied. The rest of the division, how
ever, is out of playoff contention. The 
Niners will probably take the division, 
simply because the Saints seem to choke 
too often, whereas the Niners rarely, if 
ever, do. The Saints will get the second 
wildcard position, perhaps the first.
This Sunday, the Atlanta Falcons will 
be traveling to lovely Buffalo. The Bills 
should win, probably by a good amount. 
Look for the Falcons to play tough early 
but falter in the second half. Cincinnatti 
seems to be putting it together. Albeit, a 
little late, but the Bengals have been 
winning games no one expects them to 
win. Expect them to beat the Lions. 
Cleveland will take on Minnesota in an 
interesting yet dull matchup. Take the 
Vikings, its the better team. The Bron
cos and Raiders square off in an AFC 
grudge match. Take the Raiders in a 
mild upset. Miamis defense shouldnt
have too many problems with Houston's 
offense. Take the Dolphins at home. 
Pittsburgh should have an easy time 
with the Colts, but they probably wont. 
Take the Steelers, but dont be surprised 
by a close game. Kansas City will 
strengthen its bid for the AFC West 
division title by beating Seattle. The 
Jets should get an easy win out of the 
suffering Patriots. San Diego takes on 
Tampa Bay in a battle of the sunny 
winter cities. Take the Chargers just for 
kicks.
Chicago and Green Bay will be play
ing this weekend. Take the Bears. Dal
las should have absolutely no problem 
with Phoenix. Take the 49ers over the 
Rams in an NFC West battle. Philadel
phia and the Giants are fighting for 
position in the NFC East. Take the 
Eagles behind Randall Cunningham. 
Tonights game should be quite an inter
esting one.
The Buffalo Bills, a team that has 
been quite criticized of late for lacking in 
its usual dominance, will be playing in 
Miami against the Dolphins, the first 
team to victimize the Bills with a loss 
this year. The Dolphins seemed to suck 
the life out of the Bills by coming up with 
golden opportunities and using the here
tofore Dolphins unknown quantity, 
Keith Jackson. The Dolphins beat the 
Bills badly in Buffalo. Since then, both 
teams have dropped games. The two are 
tied for first place in the AFC East. The 
Bills lost to the Dolphins and Raiders, 
definitely teams worthy of victories. In 
the meantime the Dolphins dropped 
back-to-back games to the Indianapolis 
Colts and the New York Jets, neither of 
which are all too awe-inspiring. Take 
the Dolphins at home and give them the 
division, but dont give them the confer
ence. This year, I feel, the AFC will 
belong to a team from the Central divi
sion.
Senior staffwriter Dave Martin is a 
junior psychology 
major.
Carnegie Mellon University Mens Soccer
Final Statistics
Record: 1241 (5-2-0 UAA, 3rd placo)
CMU 2, Washington & Jefferson 0
Case Western Reserve 2, CMU 1 *
CMU 3, Chicago 1 *
CMU 3, Point Park 0
CMU 3, Franklin & Marshall 0
CMU 6, Waynesburg 0
Brandeis 2, CMU 1 *
CMU 2, Rochester 0 *
Pittsburgh 2, CMU 0
CMU 2, Westminster 0
CMU 7, LaRoche 0
CMU 2, Penn State-Behrend 0
CMU 0, Grove City 0
CMU 2, Emory 0 *
CMU 3, New York 1 *
Bethany 1, CMU 0
CMU 1, Washington 0 *
(* - University Athletic Association game)
Final Team Statistics
Goals: CMU 38, opponents 9
Shots: CMU 268, opponents 87
Comer kicks: CMU 106, opponents 38
Saves: CMU 41, opponents 73
Final Individual Statistics
Alex Amezquita, 26 points (8 goals, 10 assists)
Mike Brazinski, 14 (6, 2)
Vince Russell, 13 (1,11)
Terence Sibiya, 12 (5, 2)
Pat Lucignani, 10 (4, 2)
Alan Horn, 8 (3, 2)
Min Chong, 8 (2, 4)
John Stivoric, 7 (2, 3)
Alan Levin, 5 (2,1)
Jeff McJunkin, 4 (2, 0)
Basal Ramzy, 3(1,1)
Rich Tesler, 2 (1, 0)
Mark Lotter, 2 (1, 0)
Mark Hale, 1 (0,1)
Goalkeepers
David Shapiro, 14 games, 0.54 goals against average, 10 shutouts
Dan Warren, 8, 0.50,1
John Moran, 2, 0.00, 0
Compiled by
ERIC STRAUSS
AjOIKTPARK/COUKETCADmOil
POINT PARK COLLEGE THEATRE COMPANY
presents
November 4-22 
Call
(412) 621-4445
(Visa/MC) "AUoatTlX
A farcical comedy
by Peter Horsier 
Dircctcd by Kathryn Aronson
In the Theatre Downstairs
Tickets: $7
at the Playhouse Box Office
ON THE VERGE at the 222 Craft Avenue, Pgh, PA
-C
STUDENT half-price tickets, 1/2 hour before show>
classified
HOUSINGWANTED
brngtvUaS mntlsGa RaSnOO$9 vUsna 
utGeUag sgS RsGUq 6G,OOS CGnaaGq MwT 
MwH
JOBS
Murray Street Cafe
Carn eangi
Fotba ldtesra 
5 until yCWet 
nM kucfe
hmdpprCW UPaCt i
hmrbJtidt iB
hwrb1terc 0rbCui -
IMNe
Imported Beer Specials 
9 until 1 1
1720 MURRAY AVE. SQUIRREL HILL
521-1272
M33TC33 ,aauyoq 6vva$Rya mnOSreGv 
sG UO$aq .svo1 fO vayytgq -Or8na mstS 
StnaeGq bryyo rsnsgGaaSq bnaa pgPOn$s2
GtOgTMk LOrn LOGytgaq 03wTHFTMF33q 
AOmontUG 7 I6ww:!Lq
6na oOr $OSay $sGantsyK !Oggs Daysjse 
sgS eO$msgo tv tg vasneU OP ga, Pseavq pP 
oOr sna vantOrv sROrG $OSaytg sgS 
asngtg aiGns $Ogao9 vrR$tG vgsmvUOGv 
syOg ,tGU oOrn UatUG9 ,atUG sgS 
eyOGUtg vtza (tgeyrSa s vayPTsSSnavvaS 
vGs$maS aglayOma) GO: !Oggs Daysjse 
sgS AO$msgo9 Oga DtayO, Cqrsna9
CrtGa wFMk9 ItGGvRrnU9 I6 wMwFq fO Paa 
tglOylaSq
$ caG nteUan ,Utya oOrn PntagSv aG 
mOOnanq Cayy ervGO$ SavtgaS NTvUtnGvq bOn 
Pnaa tgPO esyy WaPP M0wTkHw3q
fsGtOgsy MsnuaGtg btn$ vaauv Sogs$te 
vGrSagG eyrRv9 Gas$v sgS OnsgtzsGtOgv 
GO msnGtetmsGa tg s $sjOn mnO$OGtOg POn s 
$sjOn naGstyan GUsG tv eO$tg GO oOrn 
es$mrvq .sng Rt $Ogao gO tglavG$agGq 
Asyy Bteu POn $Ona tgPOn$sGtOg Og GUtv 
aietGtg alagG wT033TFMTMwMw aiGq wwFq
Cmntg Dnasu 8FH Cayy Gntmv9 asng esvU 
& O Pnaa111 CGrSagG Nnslay Canlteav tv 
gO, Utntg es$mrv namnavagGsGtlavq Cut 
mseusav syvO slstysRyaq Asyy wT033T6k0T 
k0kFq
CmntgRnasuanvq InO$OGa Orn byOntSs 
Cmntg Dnasu mseusavq .sng $Ogao sgS 
Pnaa Gntmvq Onsgtza v$syy On ysna nOrmvq 
As$mrv MsnuaGtgq 033TkMHTM6kq
Deadline
Deadline for submission of 
classifieds to The Tartan is 5 
pm the Thursday before pub
lication.
Let the Classifieds work for you! 
Send your classified ad with 
payment today!
NUa Iasea eOnmv tv Uana1 BamnavagGsGtla 
bnsgu LtSOg tv slstysRya tg BOO$ kcYw9 
bOnRav AagGan9 sG GUa YgtlanvtGo OP 
ItGGvRrnUq MsjOnv ,a8na yOOutg POn: 
$sGU9 vetagea9 Rrvtgavv9 On s UasyGU On 
aSresGtOg PtaySq 6yy aimagvav mstS myrv 
RagaPtGvq IUOga: kwMT6k0TkMkq YqCq 
etGtzagvUtm naqrtnaSq
QN CAMPUS JOBS
$$$ cnasG $Ogao mOGagGtsyq Cayy 
ervGO$ SavtgaS NTvUtnGv Og es$mrvq
bOn $Ona tgPO esyy WaPP sG wT033TH6T 
60Mq
dOOutg POn s GOm PnsGangtGo9 vOnOntGo9 
On vGrSagG OnsgtzsGtOg GUsG ,OryS ytua 
GO $sua $33Tw33 POn s Oga ,aau 
$snuaGtg mnOjaeG ntUG Og es$mrvq
MrvG Ra OnsgtzaS sgS UsnS,Onutgq
Asyy 033TFMTMwMwq .iG H30q
SERVICES
cnaauv & AyrRvq Bstva s eOOy $w9333q33 
tg jrvG Oga ,aau1 Iyrv $w333 POn GUa 
$a$Ran ,UO esyyv1 6gS s Pnaa UasS2
mUOga nsStO jrvG POn esyytg wT033TFHMT 
3M09 aiGq 6q
Laym ,sgGaS: LOrvaeyasgtg w Gt$aE 
,aauq .imantagea mnaPannaSq AyOva GO 
AMY gasn Daayan sgS bOnRavq Asyy 60MT 
36Mwq
TRAVEL
dO, vGrSagG sgS PseryGo Psnav GO 
tgGangsGtOgsy SavGtgsGtOgvq **cOOS Psnav 
,tGUtg GUa YC6q *6-L & .rnsty msvvavq** 
.imantageaS9 PntagSyo vanlteaq LOrnv FT 
m$ MOgSsoTbntSsoEw3 s$TgOOg 
CsGrnSsoq AOglagtagG yOesGtOg: k630 
WtgGUnOm CGq OPP COrGU Anst CGq Asyy 
bOnr$ Nnslay 60wTk3FFq
Csla $63 OPP RnOeUrna nsGav111 Ctg rm 
Ro wMEw3EFM POn GUtv vsltgv111 LasG,sla 
VsesGtOgv Cmntg Dnasu wFFHww1 Asyy wT 
033THFT,sla111
Send your ad with 
payment today. 
See your ad in 
print next week!!
Classified Policy
Rates
1-20 words................$5.00 per
week
21-50 words.............$8.00 per
week
50-100 words........$10.00 per
week
Classifieds must be paid 
by cash or check before the 
first scheduled run date.
On-campus departments 
and organizations may pay 
by journal transfer with a 
valid account number.
Classifieds are not subject to 
discounts applicable to 
display ads.
Classifieds reach a wide 
audience.
SEND YOUR ADS 
NOW!!!
SEE THEM IN 
PRINT RIGHT BE
FORE YOUR 
EYES!!!
The Tartan Publishing Schedule
November 16 
November 23 
November 30 
December 7
All submisions for publica
tion must be received the 
Thursday before publication 
along with payment.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

ZENTEKS Student / Faculty Special
Zentek li prowl to have lervtd lore Ilian 0,000 cuilorncri ationwlde for over five yew.Now we are offerirli tlwlenti and cully a chance lo purchaie our brand name cormiulen ind computer liardwart al wholeule price.If you order now, you can buy a Zentek ayitrrn al the aamc price Out telali I lorn pay. Dial meant u vinci of from 100 lo 1500, or you could retell the tyitern for  profil,You'll find llial Zenlek' price a/e .iremely competitive. and our yiicmi are completely reliable. And we liiti all phone and fa order wiiliin 24 hour.If I here itmoney-back guar..v.,  year warranly on pari* and labor,For hljth uuality and (real erv al affordable price, call or vlill Zenlek'i ihowioom/faclory, and mention Ihli ad
ci  problem with . offer a 30 day
? B.28D5DO 132/lOOpca M/A? 5.25 DSHD 35/IOOpca M/A< T. Il-,Oil V./IOQpe* MS? 3 5 DSHD tSS/IOOpea 143
 3903X-2SMIU. AMI 11103? 3006X-33MhJ. AMI UI03 3BODX-40Mhi 04K. AMI UI03> 4BOX-33MIUMK. AMI DIOS --IX-33MIU MK. AMI UI05
$120$139$100
? 4000X-50Mlua50K.AMIDI03 5700
$17 0 $210 $2i0 $27 0
I Standard Fflurn I
ORDER UNE 516-678-2065ld.Oenald*,NYJ157J
 42MII IDC 20ma IID BOMOIOE l7rnallD> HOMUIDK ISmallD> IOOMU IDE " I20MU IDE> I30MU IDE tOma I
 12' Amber Monochrome Monitor? IV SVGA. 1024x71 I0.3mml? 14SVOA. l024X7G8l0.28mml  M'SVOA. NI. 1024x708w3qMEw t$t522*23 Infiniti 2400 WS Internai? Innmu 2400 DP3 Exlemal  Zenlek 0000 DPS Internai  Zentek 0000 WS Detenni  OVC 9000 DP3 Internai OVC OCOO Ora Extern! Infiniti 9000/2400 PAX/Modem
$239$2B0$320
 Artec 3-bullon aerial nvIIDin IDE Ila IID
M70.J2WOe.anaM.il$879
ZEHTEK 3B63X-33MI1I
And Much More ... Please Call
Monochromo System $000 Monochrom SyaUm $099 Monochroma Syctom$II49
TECH SUPPORT /CUSTOMER SERVICE:...678-2079ORDER: (S16) 678-2558
Supor VGA Syotom $795 Supor VGA Systom $875 Supor VGA Systom $1349MONDA Y-FR1DAY: 9;OOAM-6:OOPM SATURDAY: 9 JOAM-3:OOPM
? I Mritabylrafhlfh f*fd 7t)
Wo Vo got tho best prices, highest quality, & best service, guaranteed
BRITISH
2ub.rae
the most incredible S 
offer of the year-
British Airways 
Round-Trip Ticket
Pittsburgh-London 
$10.00
In celebration ofCarnegie Mellon Drama's extraordinary production of Charles Dickens' The Life and Adventures of 
Nicholas Nickleby, British Airways has donated two round-trip tickets, Pittsburgh-London. To be part of the drawing purchase a $10.00 ticket at the Drama box office. The winner will be selected on Saturday December 12.
Drama Box Office: 268-2407Hours: Noon to 5:00 pm; Day of a performance Noon to 8:00pm.
The tickets are good through October 27,1993.
Black out dates: December 10,1992 thru January 10,1993 
and June 1st thru September 15, 1993.
Tickets are not exchangeable for cash or other travel arrangements.
DALMO
OPTICAL
SAVE 20%
A NEW DISCOUNT
FOR CMU STUDENTS, FACULTY & STAFF
The zj-Checkpoint Eye Exam:
Our computerized eye exam provides a detailed optometric 
profile. The result... confidence in vision tor you.
In-House Laboratories:
One hour service is available from our in-house laboratories, 
and you get Dalmos assurance oS the highest quality and 
accuracy in the industry.
The New Vision  In Frames and Contacts:
Selection. Its the first thing that meets the eye at every 
Dalmo Optical Center. From bold colors and sophisticated 
profiles in frames to Extended Wear, Gas Permeable and 
Disposable Contacts, Dalmo has it all!
Guaranteed Lowest Price:
The finest designs from Europe ... the best designs in America 
... Dalmo has them all for the guaranteed lowest price.
Dr. B.H. Grossman, 
Director
SQUIRREL HHA 
5824 FORBES AVE. 
521*2100

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

speak no evil
A!
Of
CD<
see no evil
Me
# WINTER 92

---------------------------------------------------

nausei 8IHT M
9>lo enibb9w
0Fott oOtt
dula odmom
o'[ yiii>l
8U89| 9Vl9V
noxib dod
vriqBippidBrlqle
SOiUS 89hBI0

---------------------------------------------------

Tracy Hayes

---------------------------------------------------

dpHeiEMA Ni,w Mne ,lcv,slv AeiseA elMsMyemk
Version of My Life Story at the Mambo Club 
Depending on Who I'm Drinking With
For WW2 vet3 with food stains onThorndike was one of them* * *
Banlon shirts who are eating Blind Robins.only he was the richest man around Well, 1 took that money to the
some Dick working for the FBI out of Topeka.Linette Lovejo/s Studio of the Dance.
It was hard times in Kansas.He could give a girl everything she ever wanted,1 got a real job washing dishes
My father couldn't afford to feedbut there was something about the way he lookedand my own room with a radio.
a fourteen-year-old daughter.at me while he shook Pa's hand made me feel1 practiced every night 'cause 1 was goin' back
He said the way 1 was filling out,like my stomach turned inside-out.to show them all.
he wouldn't have to.
He owned the Mambo Club.1 was washing dishes one night,
When his friends came 'round,If everything worked out,watching the thin skin of soap bubbles pop
Mama would rip the pretty cloth offhe'd marry me and let Pa drink for free,and lose their color to the air.
the kitchen table and replace itbut I'd have to dance at the bar.That's when 1 thought of my new name:
with a whiskey bottle and little glasses.1 pictured chiffon and tiarasMazzie Starr...
Her eyes busy on the floor,while he taped red balloons all over
she'd tell me to stay put;the swim suit 1 insisted on wearing.* * *
but she'd turn the radio on for me,The men could bust a balloon for a buck.Thorndike gave me my job back
wring her hands on her threadbare apronto show there were no hard feelings.
and disappear into her chores.He had to bloody my nose that first night.1 saved up enough for a
Mama said it wasn't nothin'whole month's rent and my own records 
Pa and his friends talked about me like 1 wasn't there:once you closed your eyes.No balloons for Mazzie Starr.
What ya been feedin' her, Earl? 
She's growing in all the right places.A couple weeks later, some grifter1 figured all the men came back
She'll make a fine wife, a fine wife,got real omery after he paid and poppedto see the fancy steps I'd learned
Then came the laughs from their throatshis way to my skinwhile dancing on bright yellow mats
that brought drinks to their lips.and found my swim suit insteadcovered with a man's footprints.
They emptied that whiskey bottle
so he ripped it off
There were no mats on stage,
just like me,the back of my head cracked on the table,but all 1 could see were feet
one shot at a time.and there was this thump and squishing,listening to them screaming
Pa would make me get uplike a truck tire on a cat's bellytake it off, take it off.
and spin around for them.only the driver keeps going reverseChin up, toes pointed,
1 didn't know what they were looking for,forward reverse forwardshuffle ball change and a
but 1 wished 1 hadn't had it.reverse.cha cha cha.
I'd sit back down and restThorndike wouldn't marry meThe worse things get,
my arm on the radio, feelingbecause 1 was mined.the fewer questions
it's orange heat and buzzAll 1 remembered was thoseyou ask.
that made me as invisiblebusted balloons hanging like rotten apples
as the air that carried the melodies.from the pretty suit 1 used
to dance in when nobody was looking.Kathy well-bust-my-button
Mama gave me a bus ticket and some money 
said I was grown as a woman gets 
as she snapped my suitcase shut.

---------------------------------------------------

Shooting Blanks
"Getting sex in a bar is kinda like laughing at 
your own joke in a large, empty room."
The Piranha Lounge was the darkest bar I could find.
The jazz there hid Latin rhythms like night hides the day 
in the moon's improvisation 
at the star's orchestration  
two things I knew well from learning 
how to fill in the blanks.
Edgar was the darkest man I could find.
He said my eyes were like the polished jade 
of a locket swinging slowly 
in front of his getting-sleepy eyes.
What he really said was that I had pretty eyes 
while he stared a foot below them  
filling in the blanks
like time fells the creases .in your skin
caused by rumpled sheets,
marks that last longer than
the impression you left on him
because he's a man and afraid of feeling,
so if he doesn't call back,
it's a sure sign he loved you 
filling in the blanks
of all the men who seduced me
as a titty dancer
but made love to a ballerina,
even if they couldn't tell the difference.
Drawing blanks
until all I can see are blanks 
and I wouldn't know 
a Latin rhythm from any other.
Kathy damn Jo

---------------------------------------------------

Perched in a vinyl snack
bar stool and waiting for the heat
to die off my coffee
with the steam, to me the formica
counters of the laundromat
look like a smooth, unromantic
desert.
The attendant is a rock 'n roll
chick, lycra pants and black concert
t-shirts. She talks of husband-girlfriends
and wife-boyfriends
as the back-story for the real
issue: who hit
whom and paid
for what.
Every time she punctuates 
a sentence with "that bastard," 
smoke from her Newport Ultralight 
shimmies and mingles 
with smoke of a Marlboro 
in the ashtray between her 
and the man.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

The man doesn't have 
laundry to wash, just a pirate loop 
ear-ring and a skinny book 
of matches. He laughs warm 
and brown like his beard 
at the appropriate times.
He has an experience
for every story she wants to tell.
I can see the two 
of them together in a panelled 
room just bigger than a double 
bed and lamp-stand. They would 
have the light on, covered by a pleated 
orange shade, giving the whole 
room a mobile-homish red glow, 
a clock-radio whispering out a classic 
rock 'n roll station.
Their hairless torsos would be unexpectedly
lithe for all the beer botdes, they don't
sweat for touching or kissing, skin
smooth and dry like baby powder. I'd
like to be in bed beside
them as they fall into the rhythm
of their lovemaking like an easy
habit with a velvet Jesus painting
taking in the whole scene.
Bob Dixon

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

pfcabiography
Charles D. Sabatos
The alphabet came before toy tracks and balls and stuffed 
animals. My mother read stories to me, like In a People House, 
with a nice bird and a naughty mouse who looked around the 
house when the people were away. Look out below, Im going to 
crash! she would read as I rolled off the edge of the couch onto the 
floor and crashed beside her feet. Sometimes I would stay on the 
floor and talk to her feet, whose names were Buggy and Mrs. Poo. 
But usually I would sit back up right away and listen to the rest of 
the story.
My first love was Cinderella. When looking avidly 
through my four or five storybook versions was not enough, I 
would be eager to act it out, for a fuller experience. But being an 
only child, I had to play the parts by myself. Sometimes, 
especially if it was raining, I played with my mother, in the early 
afternoon between lunch and her daytime nap. Our acting, such 
as it was, was limited to two roles. Usually, I played the helpless 
girl in cinders, and my mother became the tall, strong prince. Plot 
development was unnecessary, indeed impossible with no one to 
play the evil stepsisters, so we literally cut to the chase. My 
favorite part was fleeing endlessly down the stairs to the 
basement, with my Prince Mother in close pursuit. For added 
dramatic effect, I would wear her fuzzy blue bedroom slippers, 
being sure to wriggle out of one of them halfway down the 
staircase. They were so big that occasionally both of them got 
behind and had to dash back to retrieve one of them.
For the resolution of the tale, we would resume our 
natural genders. My mother was a natural for the part where the 
Cinderella tries the glass slipper on, and the Prince finds that it 
fits her perfectly. Worn out from chasing an exuberant threeyear-old, she would sit on the couch, and crouching next to her 
foot I would take one of the bedroom slippers and slide it on 
triumphantly.
After that, of course, we had to dance in celebration that 
Cinderella had been found. We would spin around in circles, her 
lifting me slightly into the air. I needed someone shorter to dance 
with. I definitely needed a sister.

---------------------------------------------------

I was three and a half when Mark was born. It was a 
bewildering thing to have a younger brother, a situation for which 
I was not at all prepared. Not only did he take up most of the 
time that my mother had formerly, rightfully, devoted to me, but 
he was utterly useless as a playmate. In the late morning when 
the sun shone right into the living room she would read to both of 
us. But when she got to the part Look out below! Mark would 
refuse to crash. As I gleefully sprawled across the floor, his huge 
blue eyes would stare down at me at if I were an absolute idiot.
Then, after only a few stories, my mother went to take her 
nap, tucking Mark into his crib as well. As soon as she dozed off, I 
would creep into Marks room with some of my favorite books and 
start to read to him. (Not all of the stories needed little girls after 
all. When he got a little older, perhaps we could play Jack and the 
Beanstalk.) But as soon as I showed him the first page, he would 
begin to cry and I would look up guiltily to see my mothers 
annoyed face in the doorway. Leave Mark alone. Hes taking a 
nap.
Playing outside was just as fun, anyway. Along the side of 
the house were tall green shrubs. I could creep behind them, 
unseen by the neighbor kids who were usually playing noisily next 
door. Right at the edge of my yard, their property rose up steeply 
to form a sort of plateau above mine. Clinging to the edge of this 
plateau was what they called the treehouse, although it was not 
a tree at all. It was actually a metal tower, at least ten feet tall, 
with a platform at the top that could only be reached by climbing 
rusty rungs. I climbed it once, and my terror was all the worse for 
the lack of concern it caused the neighbor kids.
As soon as I went into the backyard, some of the neighbor 
kids saw me and came down, urging me to join them. I was 
irritated; Id just begun to have time to myself and I wanted to 
play at my house. The big kids went back to the treehouse. But 
sometimes Julie Jacks, the youngest, would stay and play. Julie 
was a year younger than me. She was no substitute for the sister 
I was awaiting: she was much too bossy and had the tendency to 
run back to her house whenever we got in a fight. Sometimes, 
though, we would go inside the cool dark gameroom, sit on the 
couch and listen to records. Our favorite was my unofficial 
soundtrack of the Wizard of Oz . My favorite song was when 
Dorothy was caught by the witch and trapped in her castle:
Somewhere, theres sunshine and laughter 
Somewhere birds sing all day through 
Somewhere, oh thats where I wish I were 
Somewhere out there with you.
I found this rather poor imitation of Over the Rainbow just as 
wonderful as the real songs from the movie. We would listen to it 
over and over, sometimes skipping the rest of the record entirely. 
Julie grew tired of it long before I did; when I refused her pleas to
listen to the Candy Man record, she would leave. I didnt care; it 
was late in the afternoon and not long until dinnertime.
Walking back out onto the patio, I would crouch at the far 
comer, against the house, and examine a tiny footprint set into 
the cement. It was mine. I didnt remember the day when my 
parents had built the patio, but I had looked at the pictures in the 
family scrapbooks. I could imagine my helpless surprise as my 
mother had scooped me up and pressed my wiggling foot into the 
oozing cement. I squirmed a bit as I thought what might have 
happened if my mother had left me in the cement too long. 
Standing with one foot next to the faded imprint, I gazed in 
wonder; my foot was nearly twice as long as it had been that day.
My brother was growing as well. But his light red hair 
and blue eyes were alien to me, especially since my father had the 
same brown hair and eyes that my mother and I did. Marks 
actions were just as strange. He would run around endlessly, 
playing with the trucks and balls that I had always neglected, and 
refusing to listen to my sensible rules, which was rather rude 
since he was more than a year old.
During the Bicentennial celebration, I grew fascinated 
with flags. Betsy Ross had replaced Cinderella as my heroine of 
choice. I had collected a dozen American flags of various sizes  
my favorites were the colonial ones with a circle of thirteen stars 
against the field of blue. I liked to plant the flags, on their slender 
wooden stakes, to colonize various corners of the yard. I even 
made my own flags on huge sheets of white paper. I glued strips 
of red crepe paper across the whole sheet, leaving stripes of white 
in between. In the comer I pasted foamy blue dryer sheets. 
Sometimes I cut out little crooked paper stars, but often I drew 
them with a felt-tip pen. As I busily sewed my Old Glory, I 
wrapped my favorite blanket  a little rectangle of yellow yarn 
unraveling at the edges  around my head as a sort of oldfashioned bonnet. Needless to say, my activities  as colonizer or 
colonist  did not interest Mark in the least.
About that time I found out that my mother was having 
another baby. This time I knew that her tummy would grow until, 
if I was lucky and had my hand near the belly button at the right 
time, I could feel the baby kicking to get out. I was not surprised 
when she was gone for a few days, or at the swarm of the 
neighbors (even some I usually never saw) who stopped by when 
she returned. The house was very messy and warm. My mother 
had brought back interesting little bottles that looked to be full of 
bright yellow pee but when gingerly tasted turned out to be sweet 
tingly mouthwash. She had also brought back another baby, 
wrapped in a blue checked quilt, who was was plumper than Mark 
with a little bruise at one side of his face, but unmistakably a boy. 
I was hardly disappointed at all this time. Greg was more fun to 
play with  he didnt cry as much, or at least he didnt get me in 
trouble as much. Sometimes he even got Mark in trouble. I didnt 
have as much time to play, anyway, because by this time Iwas in 
first grade at Poff Elementary. When I was home, my mother was 
less thorough in administering justice, now that she had a 
growing family to raise.

---------------------------------------------------

CAofc Chnrfwi \)ocioreEvery Sunday morning we went to mass at St. Catherines 
of Sweden. My parents sang the Catholic hymns with the 
unseemly fervor of Baptists. I dutifully opened the missalette and 
held the page open for Mark, who didnt care to pay attention. My 
mother interrupted her singing: Stop teasing your brother. I 
couldnt sing loud enough nor pray long enough. Two or three 
times during every mass, we had to kneel for long tedious 
stretches of silence. I prayed for my parents, then (briefly) for my 
brothers, then (fervently) for a sister.
After mass I went to the school next to the church. The 
rooms were dim and full of old furniture, not like my regular 
school at all. This was not regular school; this was C.C.D. (I liked 
that name better than Sunday school, it was more alphabetical.
I could never remember what the initials stood for, but some of the 
bad kids said it meant Central City Dump.) I didnt know some 
of the kids; the others went to my regular school but I didnt like 
them very much.
My C.C.D. teacher was a sturdy middle-aged woman with 
pale yellow hair curling away from her stern florid face. One 
morning she told us, with her usual brusqueness, that to love 
Jesus we had to love everybody in the world. There was general 
confusion at this seemingly impossible command. In my 
bewilderment, I felt a rare unity with my classmates.
But what if we dont like somebody? asked one of the 
bolder boys.
The teacher paused. Well, you dont have to like them, 
but you still have to love them.
This philosophy was quite very useful at Poff School, 
where I was learning a lot. I didnt like many of the boys, whether 
God wanted me to love them or not. They were always running 
around on the field below the school, playing football or baseball. 
They asked me to play with them, but I usually refused. I stayed 
on the blacktop with the girls and played foursquare or even 
jump-rope. I was never very good at the latter; I was afraid of 
jumping toward the whirling rope. Usually, I would wander the 
playground with a single friend  Amy or Marcie  riding the 
swingsets or climbing the monkey bars, and talking.
My C.C.D. lesson was equally useful at home. I gave up 
trying to like my brothers, and loved them instead a love that 
was often betrayed when, hearing them fight in the other room, I 
would come over and separate them, only to have both of them 
turn against me when my mother arrived. In the meantime, I was 
still praying for a sister.
Departures
As the afternoons shrank away into grey autumn 
evenings, my new favorite book became The Secret Garden. I 
filled notebooks, complete with illustrations, with shorter 
adaptions of the story. Mary Lennox, who had joined Cinderella 
and Betsy Ross in my affections, was a little English girl from
India who moved to a big mansion on the moors of England. It 
was full of spooky sounds and cries in the night. But one day, 
while wandering in the gardens, she found a rusty key which, she 
believed, was the key to the long-lost secret garden. Then, 
behind the thick ivy in an old brick wall, she found a hidden door.
Dinnertime! I was reading in the living room, at one em 
of the couch, so I couldnt pretend that I hadnt heard my mother. 
Reluctantly, I put the book aside just as I was about to enter 
Marys secret garden.
My parents had a secret of their own. They told me that 
we were going to be moving to a new house two doors down the 
street. It sounded ridiculous to me. The neighbors had a nice 
swimming pool in the back yard, but our house was  ours. 
Wasnt my footprint in one corner of the patio?
But the other house has one extra bedroom, said my 
parents. I was mildly interested  did that mean that my 
brothers and I would all have our own rooms? No, my mother 
explained, there was another reason we needed an extra bedroom 
She was having another baby. I was terribly torn: having anothei 
sibling (a sister?) was potentially thrilling, but leaving my 
childhood home was the first major upheaval in my seven years. ' 
took the opportunity to assess my life in a complete 
autobiography. I drew the illustrations, intending to fill the story 
in later. Julie was a nice girl, was the caption of the first 
picture, which resembled Mary Lennox more than the chubby five 
year-old neighbor I remembered (she had moved when I was in 
kindergarten.) Then I drew a picture of my happy life in what I 
had already begun to think of as the old house, although we 
were not going to move until January, and ended with the caption 
I dont want to go!
That Christmas was our last in the old house. A few days 
after New Years 1979 (I was beginning to think of the years as 
separate and distinct, now that I was getting to be a big kid,) nr 
mother went into the hospital again. My father stayed with her, 
and our neighbor, Mrs. Fabian, came to watch the three of us. 
Mark and Greg were in bed. I was sitting upstairs in the living 
room with Mrs. Fabian. The Christmas decorations were still up: 
my mother was as thorough and creative in decorating for the 
seasons as one would expect from a former elementary 
schoolteacher. It was dark outside, and rather eerie inside, by th( 
light of a single lamp. I sat on the couch, reading Hans Christian 
Andersens The Little Match Girl in an anthology of holiday 
stories. The little girl in the story wandered the streets barefoot 
in the snow on New Years Eve, trying to earn a few pennies 
selling matches to the passersby. At last, she huddled in a corner 
and began lighting the matches to warm herself. With each 
match, she saw a delicious feast, or a cozy parlor, or  the last 
vision  her grandmother, in heaven. On the first day of the ne\s 
year  it gave me a chill as the story came to a close  the little 
match girl was found frozen to death.
The phone rang, and Mrs. Fabian went to get it. Oh, 
hello! It was apparently my parents. Her tone changed subtly. 
She was listening rather than talking, and at the end of the 
conversation she sounded rather subdued. She came into the 
living room to tell me the news. The baby had been born. Her

---------------------------------------------------

name was Mary Beth. But, as my father explained when he came 
home, Mary Beth was veiy sick. I was happy anyway. X had 
a sister at last. God had heard all of my prayers and had even 
noticed all of the times Id taken the blame for something Mark or 
Greg had broken or spilled. I loved everybody, especially Mary 
Beth, and I wanted to see her. But at the same time I was slightly 
afraid.
My mother came home a few days later, with the usual 
bottles of mouthwash and packets of crackers, but without the 
baby. She explained it to me in more detail. Mary Beth had been 
bom unable to breathe. The doctors had put in a trach, which was 
a hole in the outside of her throat. I learned the new word 
eagerly: trach, but felt my throat rather gingerly whenever I 
thought about it too much. My parents had a big baptism 
ceremony at St. Catherines Church. Their friends, including 
several priests, and many of our relatives were there, but the baby 
was not. Afterwards everyone went back to the old house to 
celebrate. My mother put all of the casseroles people had brought 
on a table in the kitchen. In the middle was a white-frosted cake, 
crowned with a little pink angel. I thought it was odd to have a 
baptism without the baby; it was like having a wedding without 
the bride or even a funeral without the coffin.
Mary Beth was still in the hospital when we moved to the 
new house. Rainy days in January are not the most pleasant time 
to cany couches and beds outside, and I was glad that I didnt 
have to do the hard work. The same day, strangely, a television 
adaption of The Secret Garden was on, and I sat in the game room 
of the old house in front of our big T.V., watching it eagerly as my 
uncles carted away the furniture all around me. Then the show 
was over, literally they unplugged the T.V. and carried it into 
the driveway. I took one last glance at the stairway down which 
Cinderella had fled long ago, and followed them out the back door 
into the drizzle. I looked at the footprint, now an indistinct 
crevice in the cement, and walked across the next door neighbors 
front yard to the new house.
Eclipse
The new house was a clutter of boxes and furniture in 
disarray. The bedroom that Mark and I shared in the basement 
was cozy, as soon as I unpacked most of my books. Upstairs were 
three bedrooms; one for my parents, one for Greg, and one, 
painted pink, where the empty crib stood.
My sister came home at the beginning of February. She 
was tiny and very red, and her trach was covered with a bandage. 
I sat on the floor of her room, holding her in my arms while my 
mother went to get her bottle. Unlike Mark and Greg, Mary Beth 
never cried, and she usually sat still in my arms. I talked to her 
and wiggled her toes, which were even tinier than the little 
footprint in the old patio. On the wall hung an faded needlepoint 
that my mothers grandmother had stitched years ago. A tiny girl 
in a blue dress, with a lamb beside her, knelt above the rather 
disturbing prayer:
Now I lay me down to sleep 
I pray the Lord my soul to keep 
If I should die before I wake 
I pray the Lord my soul to take.. .
A few weeks later, I woke up one morning rather early and 
wandered upstairs. It was noisier than usual, and there were 
more lights on. My father was still home  he was almost always 
off to work before I got up. My mother met me at the top of the 
stairs, strangely calm. I didnt have to go to school that day.
Mary Beth had died the night before, in her sleep.
She was always so sick, my mother explained, in a 
reasonable voice. Its probably a blessing for her, that she never 
had to grow up and be sick any longer.
The next few days were such a rush of events that I was 
almost numb. Mark was somewhat aware of our sisters death, 
but Greg could not comprehend it. Then again, I wasnt sure that 
I could even begin to understand it myself, living in the new house 
that wed bought for the new sister who I had only seen for three 
weeks and would never see again. Should I feel happy for her, or 
sad for myself? Or was I sad at all?
My parents came home from the funeral home, having 
selected a tiny pink casket. Will people be able to see the trach?
I asked.
No, said my mother. Were not going to open the
casket.
Why? It sounded stupid to me.
Usually, people dont have viewings for babies. Mary 
Beth was so little.
I felt stirrings of resentment at being deprived of my last 
chance to see my sister. For the first time I argued with my 
parents and for the first time that I could remember they agreed.
Mary Beths funeral was at our church, where her baptism 
had been held less than two months before. Many of the same 
people attended that solemn reenactment. At the funeral home, 
Mary Beths coffin was open, because, as I overheard my mother 
explaining, Chuckie wanted it that way. I stepped through the 
gathering, leaving my parents and my brothers surrounded by 
sympathizers in the middle of the room, and walked over to the 
tiny lifeless form, looking at it almost in wonder. Everyone could 
look at my sister, and it was all because of me. My sisters death 
had given me the most power I had ever experienced, and yet it 
had shown me how powerless I actually was.
Impulsively, I reached forward and rested my fingers 
briefly on the tiny forehead. The touch of her skin felt like rubber 
stretched over a very cold stonean image which I remember 
thinking the exact moment I withdrew my fingers.
We planted geraniums on Mary Beths grave  there was 
no headstone for over a year. My father declared that there was a 
new angel in heaven, and prayed to St. Mary Beth. The crib was 
piit away in the attic and the pink room upstairs became a guest 
bedroom. I used to sit in it and read, feeling like Cinderella after 
the ball, sitting on the hearth with nothing to hold but a single 
glass slipper.

---------------------------------------------------

Jongress shall make no law respecting an establi 
eligion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof; 
>r abridging the freedom of speech, or of the pre
he right of people peaceably to assemble, and to
>etition the government for/tf&gteggs' of greivanc
hear what you want to hear
|gee what
 C
i 
or
you want to se
say what you want to say

---------------------------------------------------

Most smokers already 
follow regulations
By BOB DIXON
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senate passed a resolution in September which banned smoking in 
student organization offices and all indoor activities sponsored by a student 
organization and partially or totally funded by the student Activities Fee. In 
honor of the Great American Smokeout, smokers on campus voiced their 
opinions about the Senate smoking resolution.
The resolution regarding Carnegie Mellon smoking policy which passed on 
September 22,1992 begins whereas Carnegie Mellon Student Senate recog
nizes the need to accomodate the preferences of smokers and non-smokers... 
Smokers on campus voiced many concerns about the consideration of both 
smokers and non-smokers.
I dont think [consideration] is a big problem, said freshman drama 
student Carl Smith. Many students, including senior drama major Alan 
Middleton, agreed with Smith stating that they certainly respect nonsmokers rights.
Alison OBrien, 1992 Psychology Department graduate and current staff 
member said, Even though I am a smoker, I don't think you should be stinking 
up other peoples space.
Some smokers however did voice concerns about where smoking should or 
should not be allowed. One freshman voice major who wished to remain 
unnamed said, When youre trying to work, especially sing or play an 
instrument, the smoke from someones cigarette can be really annoyingnot 
that I am biased, because I smoke. But if I want a cigarette badly enough, lean 
go outside and have one.
Students expressed concern that there be clearly marked, designated 
smoking areas within buildings.
Sophomore music major Alicia Allen said that having designated indoor 
smoking areas is especially important during periods of cold weather.
In regard to policy for student offices, Smith said that, although he does not
Iyasva vaa CMO:.BC9 msa dH
Students seek to limit public 
smoking privileges on campus
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
Recent proposals regarding smoking 
have caused problems for some on cam
pus  non-smokers feel as if their rights 
are being violated, while smokers feel as 
if they are being unfairly punished. Sev
eral students on campus have voiced 
their opinions on what they feel is an 
infringement on their good health.
Sophomore H&SS student Joshua 
Knauer is doing something about this 
imposition on his health. Knauer, an 
H&SS StudentSenator, presented a pro
posal to Student Senate which would 
ban smoking in all indoor public areas. 
I respect the right that smokers have to 
smoke, said Knauer. Its just when it 
affects me that its upsetting. Knauers 
proposal was passed, but in a different 
form. Smoking is currently banned in 
all areas except where posted that it is 
allowed.
Knauer, along with several fellow 
members of the Student Environmental 
Action Coalition, is helping Student 
Health Staff Nurse Rowena Lynch by 
manning some tables for this weeks 
Great American Smokeout.
Knauer has spoken to Dean of Stu
dent Affairs Michael Murphy and CMDS
management, but his efforts have (as of 
yet) proved unfruitful. Both were sup
portive, said Knauer, but suggested I 
try to make progress through Student 
Senate. Knauer would like to see Cam
pus Police and CMDS employees en
force the policies that do exist on cam
pus. Id also like to see officers not 
smoke on duty  it sets a horrible ex
ample, said Knauer. He will also present 
a second proposal to Student Senate 
again next semester, which will include 
a motion to impose the same $50 fine 
that the city of Pittsburgh has here on 
campus.
Freshman CIT student Truman 
Fenton is also doing his part to purify 
the air he breathes. Ashtrays provided 
for smokers at benches in a Hamerschlag
Hall stairwell were removed after 
Fenton discussed the matter with 
Murphy and Environmental Health and 
Safetys Peter Collope. Anywhere that 
people are smoking indoors should be 
adequately ventilated, said Fenton. 
If people are smoking and breaking 
the law, Ill ask them to please stop,  
hes only had one group of smokers ' 
refuse (albeit in the non-smoking sec
tion of the Tartan Grill).
Both of these students agree that 
there needs to be some type of enforce
ment  which no campus organization 
or administration seems willing to pro
vide. I feel sorry for smokers because 
theyre addicted, said Knauer. When 
people smoke, it affects not only them, 
but everyone around them.
...A custom loathsome to the eye, hateful to 
the nose, harmful to the brain, dangerous to 
the lungs, and in the black stinking fume 
thereof nearest resembling the horrible 
Stygian smoke of the pit that is bottomless. 
 James I of England, 
A Counterblast to Tobacco
Even for a day, quitting no easy task
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Staffwriter
I just finished smoking a ciga
rette. Granted, that probably 
doesnt seem too impressive to 
most, but it was my first in 24 
hours, and Ive got a nicotine buzz 
going that I havent experienced 
in years.
Why dont we have Andrew 
quit smoking for a dav and then 
he can write about it? said Laura 
Palanker, the assistant features
editor.Everybodyseemedtothink able to giving up cigarettes as I made for a very interesting day 
that this was a good idea, includam to having my head danced on  if your idea of interesting is 
ing myself. I must have been very by Nazi storm troopers in very having cravings so bad that you
want to scratch your 
eyes out.
Oh God, my life 
is over, I cant do 
this. Why are there 
all of these unrea
sonable demands on 
my life. That guy 
over there is smoktired and confused at the time, heavyboots(thoughthatparticuing. Im going to kill him, I 
because usually I am as agreelar situation rarely comes up). It Iyasva vaa CIBOYd.9 msa dH
[Giving up smoking] made for a very inter
esting day  if your idea of interesting is 
having cravings so bad that you want to 
scratch your eyes out.
Tobacco is a dirty weed: I like it.
It satisfies no normal need: I like it. 
It makes you thin, it makes you lean, 
It takes the hair right off your bean; 
Its the worst darn stuff Ive ever 
seen:
I like it. 
 G. Hemminger, 
Tobacco
lethal leisure
Smokeout calls 
smokers to quit
By LAURA PALANKER
Tartan Assistant Features Editor
This Thursday, millions of smokers throughout the nation will join, under 
the auspices of the American Cancer Society (ACS), in the 16th Annual Great 
American Smokeout. By asking participants to lighten up instead of 
lighting up, ACS hopes to convince people not to smoke, dip, or chew for at 
least 24 hours.
Rowena Lynch, staff nurse for Student Health Services, is doing her part for 
the Smokeout here at Carnegie Mellon. Despite the fact that her grandfather 
died of lung cancer, Lynch is the only non-smoker out of six children and both 
parents in her family. To help the fight against this killer habit, Lynch has 
masterminded a Great American Smokeout drive on campus, preparing 
Survival Kits and Adopt-a-Smoker proposals. Were trying to promote 
awareness toward a healthier lifestyle, says Lynch. Students in the Health 
Professions Program, directed by professor Ann Robinson, will also bo 
manning the four tables set up on campus, to collect cigarettes and chewing 
tobacco in return for apples, candy, and advice on how to quit smoking 
permanently. 80 percent of smokers start before 21 years of ago, says Lynch. 
This is a good target age.
Smoking is a bigger problem today than one might realize. Each clay, more 
than 3,000 teenagers become regular smokers in the United States alone, and 
75 percent of these come from homes where parents smoko. By the time tlioso 
students reach college age, 25.9 percent of them are frequent smokers. In 
addition, white males smoke more cigarettes per dqy than any otlior group. 
I would like to have people not even start in the first place, says Lynch.
Smokeless tobacco use has increased greatly over the years. Between 1970 
and 1986, snuff use increased by 15 times, and 21.4 percent of users start at 
ages 19-20. Oral cancer occurs more frequently in smokeless tobacco users 
than non-users, and habitual use leads to a decrease in taste and smell and 
an increase in receding gums and tooth decay. Use also leads to leukoplakia, 
an oral condition whose symptoms include white spots on gums that are 
sometimes pre-cancerous.
The incidence of cancer and mortality are greatly increased by smoking. 
ACS estimates that there will be 168,000 new cases of lung cancer and 
146,000 lung cancer deaths in 1992. Smoking has also been implicated as a 
cause of cancers of the mouth, esophagus, pancreas, cervix, and bladder. 
Smoking in women is on the rise, too. By the mid-90s, ACS estimates that 
female smokers will outnumber male smokers for the first time in history. 
More women have died of lung cancer than breast cancer since 1987  breast
Iyasva vaa CMO:.OYN9 msa dH

---------------------------------------------------

12rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o CW R,Tewbei CSSu
Virtual Reality games 
provide illusion, diversion
Cs$ray cnOagPyaySENsnGsg IUOGO CGsPP Msgsan 
Students battled each other and their "virtual environments last Thursday In AB Special Events Virtual Reality, held in the 
Wherrett Room. Tickets, which were $2 for five minutes of play, completely sold out.
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Staffwriter
Virtual is defined as existing or re
sulting in essence or effect though not in 
actual fact, while reality is defined as 
the state of being actual or true. So, Im 
not sure if this is the most apt descrip
tion of the Virtual Reality games that 
CMU experienced last Thursday (which 
is probably as close to the real thing as 
they will ever get), but at least it looked 
fun.
The 12-hour living video game was 
brought to campus by AB Special Events. 
I think a better description of Virtual 
Reality is the phrase, someone is steal
ing my socks and underwear. While I 
realize that statement is ridiculous, can 
you explain to me why they are disap
pearing? In other words, no one is really 
stealing my underwear, but virtually 
the same thing is happening.
Players totally immerse themselves 
in computer generated images. They are 
able to do this by putting on special 
headgear that totally blocks out every
thing around them. The helmet fills the 
ears with quadrophonic sound, and the 
eyes are covered with two miniature 
television monitors. Two people play at 
each turn, and they fight against each 
other within the video game.
I never got to play the game, but I did 
talk to some people who did, and the 
reactions were quite diverse.
They ranged from I thought it was 
pretty cool, to, It sucked. However, 
the general reaction seemed to be over
whelmingly positive.
Watching it all happen was interest
ing also. People were ac
tually ducking as ptero
dactyls dove from out of 
the sky.
When they were actu
ally picked up by the di
nosaurs, I was told that 
some people even flailed, 
as though they were actu
ally being carried away.
Josh Schacter, a CIT 
freshman, said, When 
you get shot, it actually
feels like you are getting blown up. 
The technology behind Virtual Real
ity seems to be the next great thing in 
the fieldof medicine, space exploration, 
and engineering. There are lots of ap
plications, but I 
cant help thinking 
that yet another 
great idea (i.e. tele
vision, computer 
technology) is be
ing turned into a 
mind-numbing lei
sure activity.
AEPi sponsors 
finger-lickin contest
WtgTsTNUOg RagaPtGv eUsntGo
By BOBBIE DOFFLEMYER
Tartan Staffwriter
Its that time of year again, when we gather around a specially-prepared 
bounty of birds to share a moment of tradition passed down from year to 
year. No, were not talking about Moms Thanksgiving feast -were talking 
about the third annual Wing-a-Thon.
Sponsored this year by the Alpha Kappa chapter of Alpha Epsilon Pi 
fraternity, located at our own Carnegie Mellon University, this event 
benefits the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation of Greater Pittsburgh. It will 
take place at 7 pm this Wednesday in Skibo Ballroom.
With the efforts of organizations from both Carnegie Mellon and Duquesne 
University, Doug Brook, junior English major and president of Alpha 
Epsilon Pi, says they are anticipating over $5000 in contributions for the 
research of diabetes.
These funds are based on pledges solicited by the organizations for how 
many wings their team of four people will eat. The winning team  whoever 
raises the most money  will host the Wing-a-Thon next year.
Originally for Greek organizations only, participation in the Wing-a-Thon 
has now been opened to any group who wishes to be a part of the event, as 
an effort to raise more money for research.
Sophomore mechanical engineering major Burt Holzman, who is the 
philanthropy chair of the hosting fraternity, says he expects a significant 
showing from Duquesne Universitys fraternities and sororities.
Although the majority of participants from CMU are also Greek houses 
(three of the four sororities and over half of the fraternities), other groups 
that have offered their wing-scarfing services include the Housing Office 
and the Campus Association for Reproductive Rights.
SAVE
$3.00i

HAIR CUTS 
EVERY DAY$10 
CIMINI
walk-ins welcome 
406 S. Craig St.
w DdOA: 6W6- 
(Obb bOBD.C 6V.q)621-4247
on your next haircut
(regularly $16.50 - $20.00)
Offer good Monday through Friday, 
9am-3pm with select stylist.
Please bring or mention this ad.
May not be used in conjunction 
with any other offer.
.imtnav wwEMwEFM
LEWIS
HAIR
SALON
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside
682-4063
of
Government
books
Take advantage of the wealth of knowledge available from your Government. The Superintendent of Documents produces a catalog that tells you about new and popular books sold by the Government. Hundreds of books on agriculture, business, children, energy, health, history, space, and much, much more. For a free copy of this catalog,
write 
Free Catalog
P.O. Box 37000 
Washington, DC 20013-7000
cOlangt* 
ROeGagva .w.- ofts*
TELECOMMUNICATIONS
If you think youve come far in the past four years, 
you wont believe how far you could go in the next five.
If youve spent the past four years developing a solid technical background, we have an extraordinary opportunity for you: The Travelers TelecommunicationsTechnology Management Program (TTMP).
The most comprehensive training program of its kind in the financial services industry, TTMP is a five-year introduction to a state-of-the-art telecommunications environment. Through a variety of rotational assignmentsand supplemental classroom studyTTMP is singly focused on developing technology managers who will keep our network on the cutting edge.
TTMP is not easy and its not for everyone. But, if youre looking to develop the full range of skills needed to manage the most sophisticated telecommunications technology available, theres simply no better place to begin your career.
Find out more:
Come to The Travelers Information Session on:Thursday, November 19,1992 6:00 p.m. Skibo Hall, Room 45
where you will be able to sign up for interviews. Interviews will be 
conducted:Friday, November 20,1992
Summer intern candidates are also encouraged to attend. 
Casual dress is preferred.
TheTravelersjYoure better off under the Umbrella.(!

---------------------------------------------------

rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o CW R,Tewbei CSSuf2
Smoking habit difficult to break
CIBOYd.9 PnO$ msa dp
thought, after not having smoked for 
about three hours. Granted, that doesnt 
bode well when one has 21 more hours 
to go. However, it did help me under
stand some things about non-smokers
 especially reformed ex-smokers. If 
that kind of anger and bitterness can 
result from a 
few smoke
less hours, 
imagine what 
someone 
would feel like 
having given 
them up for 
good. It is no 
wonder that 
they constant
ly nag smok
ers to quit.
Youre ru
ining the air everyone breathes. You 
make everything you smoke around 
smell awful. Youre causing everyone to 
take in unwanted carcinogens, that will 
eventually bring about cancer that in
volves painful, unproven therapy which 
in the long run proves to only have 
lengthened a now miserable existence. 
Boy, some people will nit-pick about the 
smallest things. There are some posi
tive aspects of smokingat least cranky 
ex-smokers tend not to hang around 
you.
Which brings me to another aspect of 
being a non-smoker for a day. I wanted
to experience it in all aspects; therefore, 
when I went to eat lunch, I sat in the 
non-smoking section. Usually, lunch is 
an enjoyable experience. People around 
me can be heard talking of topics rang
ing from art openings to the open con
vertible they threw up in the night beThe non-smoking section ... was almost equiva
lent to being in a rather strict church service.... 
The most interesting conversation I heard was 
two people arguing over which Star Trek movie 
was better, the one directed by William Shatner 
or the one by Leonard Nimoy.
fore. And thats when the smoking sec
tion is mild. It would be illegal to print 
what happens on days when the crowd 
gets unruly.
The non-smoking section, on the other 
hand, was almost equivalent to being in 
a rather strict church service. Conversa
tion was muted and  well, I hope I 
dont offend anyone  but BORING is 
the word that comes to mind. The most 
interesting conversation I heard was 
two people arguing over which Star Trek 
movie was better, the one directed by 
William Shatner or the one by Leonard 
Nimoy. (I dont remember what tho out
come was, mostly bocauso I didnt caro.)
When it was almost time for mo to quit 
quitting, I just couldn't understand why 
ovoryono complains about quitting  
its not that hard. Of course, I used 
something to help take the edge off and 
Im surprised more people dont tako 
advantage of 
modern medicine 
to help. Heroin 
really helped me 
forget all about 
smoking. Just 
kidding. There is 
absolutely noth
ing, no matter 
what book you 
read, that will
___________________ help you quit.
And while it 
doesnt really 
help, eating seems to go along with quit
ting. I gain weight just thinking about it.
When people see me smoking, they 
often say things like, Dont you know 
youre killing yourself? Why dont you 
just go ahead and jump off of a bridge or 
something? To which I reply, Well, you 
know, I would, but I find that I dont 
quite get that same nicotine rush when 
I jump off of bridges.
Lets faco it  not smoking is prob
ably, in tho short run anyway, as un
healthy as just going ahoad and pouring 
that tar in your lungs.
Mmm mmm good.
1 H'1
I $3.99 Large 1$2.00 off$5.99 Large l
Plain PizzaAny LargePlain Pizza| 11 Everyday with coupon iGourmet PizzaEveryday with coupon ,; Pick-up only jPick-up or DeliveryDelivery or 'ick-up j
$1.50 off i
Any Two |
I Whole Hoagies I
I II Delivery or Pick-up |
$1.50 off
any Large Pizza
Delivery or Pick-up
$5.99 Large
Pepperoni Pizza
Dc'ivcry Only
IiLarge Plain +
1/2 Italian j
Hoagie 
& 2 Cokes $9.95 plus lax Delivery|---------------------------1I Buy one Pizza |
I get the same size |
Pizza FREE |
I Toppings ExlraI Pick-up only |
2 MedPizzas +
1 topping on 
each for $10.50 |
plus tax IDelivery or Pick-up
Hawaiian Pizza 
Special
$8.95 plus lax Deliveryr
Sm White Pizza I 
& Tossed Salad I
Only $4.99 '
Delivery or Pick-up j
Free Toppingon any large pizza 
Delivery or Pick-up
Please mention coupons upon ordering.
Coupons not valid with any other offer. 
Free Delivery
PIZZA OUTLET
687-9555
190 N. Craig Si.
Original Hot Dog Shop 
3901 Forbes Avenue 
621-0435
Take day off from
smoking on Thursday
CMO:.OYN9 PnO$ msa Yd
cancer had been the primary cause of cancerous death for 40 years prior to 1987. 
More men are quitting than women, too (49 percent vs. 42 percent). [Smokingrelated illness and death] is frustrating because its so preventable, says Lynch.
Smoking has also had a grave impact on the economy. The Office of Technology 
Assessment (OTA) estimates that smoking costs the economy $65 billion annu
ally. This includes $22 billion in smoking-related health care and $43 billion in 
smoking-related productivity costs  adding up to a cost of $2.17 to the United 
States economy for each pack of cigarettes. The federal government also spends 
an additional $4.2 billion annually in Medicare and Medicaid payments.
So what can you do to help a smoker this Thursday? Its a light, fun day, says 
Lynch, not to preach or scold. Adopt a Smoker  help a friend have the 
willpower to quit. Give up something you lovelike chocolate or beerto show 
your support. Take your friend to dinner (and sit in the non-smoking section). 
Share your quitting experiences with a friend. And most of all, dont smokel
Smokers worry about 
future of their rights
CMO:.BC9 PnO$ msa dp me[forsmokingillegally],Iwonttake
visit student organization offices he it.
would want to be able to smoke as long However, Up to this time, Security 
as no one in that office objected: Why hasnt enforced the rules, said 
should a fine be imposed as long as the O'Brien.
smoker wasnt bothering anyone? Smokers agreed that limits now are
H&SS freshman Lori Capp said, I valid, but expressed concern for the 
dont think [smoking] is such a huge future. A change in Senates smoking 
as to fining people  a warnpolicy could infringe on smokers, 
would be more appropriate. Prohibitingsmokingindininghalls
Middleton said, You have got to have would be unfair, said OBrien, Right 
[designated smoking areas] or smokers now, theyre the only places to work 
Ifsomeone tries to ticket and smoke.
Bs$vao LOgENsnGsg 6nG .StGOn
 28.1 percent of Americans smoke  27.8 percent of whites, 31.7 percent 
of blacks, and 23.5 percent of hispanics.
 34 percent of smokers have less than a high school diploma. 32 percent 
have a high school diploma, 25.4 percent have some college, and only 
15.9 percent of smokers have a college degree.
-  In general, men smoke more cigarettes per day than women, and 
whites smoke more per day than blacks.
 25.9 percent of smokers are between the ages of 18 and 24  25.5 
percent of males and 26.3 percent of females.
 Teenagers who plan to complete four years of college have smok
ing rates less than half of those without such plans.
 41 percent of military personnel smoke, compared with 28 
percent of the general population.
 21.8 percent of adults with a household income of $40,000 
or more smoke, as opposed to 28.0 percent of those from 
$30,000-$40,000, and 31.4 percent of those from $20,000- 
$30,000.
 The estimated probability of dying in the next 17 years 
for males at age 40 is 11 percent for smokers and 5 
percent for non-smokers. At age 50, these figures are 
27 percent and 11 percent, and at age 65, 68 percent 
and 46 percent, respectively.
 Cigarette smoking is responsible for 90 percent of lung 
cancer cases among men and 79 percent among women 
 about 87 percent overall.
Since 1987, more women have died of lung cancer than breast cancer. 
For more than 40 years, breast cancer was the major cause of cancer death 
among women.CGsGtvGtev eOrnGavo OP LasyGU Canlteav
(412) 441-4444
fifth Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15232 Toll free 800-767-848:'
16" Cheese 
Pizza
$3.49
Why pay more 
when you can get 
the best for less?
SHORT & SUITE
SHORT TERM LEASES ELEGANTLY FURNISHED STUDIO 1 OR 2 BEDROOM APARTMENT SUITES.
Only a few steps from FASHIONABLE WALNUT STREET 
SHOPS AND RESTAURANTS. From S47 per day (on a 
monthly basis). Includes FREE local phone (answering 
machine too!), cable TV (2 movie channels), VCR, all linens, 
completely equipped kitchen and parking. Maid and 
concierge services available.

---------------------------------------------------

7,000 served weekly
WUsGv s WagSayyKby Matt GoldbergsoWVf. D, Balf ourCs RifaRn
Feeui o' l
VjroaTTHELOOWW
LI Fe IK)WELL
1^193-
^BOfpLc
STARRINGCol ee i ANTONgm risc antrfwh
I tJOlO 66 WM6ST. WN H33 63W6 
(to WI55 THOSE: S REPUBLICAN 
S SL6A26BLI.S 
UOST A UTtli Irr
IN A PISTANT ALAX7 UNKNOWN TO MANKINP,
A BRAVE CREW RACES TQWARPAN UNCERTAIN FATE.
FELDER.I HAVE HU 
FALLEN SICK? SHALL I ALERT THE MEDICAL 
. PRO IP ?
|\)OT
.PGddCS9
BE STILL, m SON... I HAVE FELT A Hue,E____ PISTORBANCE IN THE FORCE.
f C\ IT WAS AS IF MILLIONS
J\ OF BMTES OF FREE 
\ MEMORY CRIEP OUT IN 
yv \ PAIN, AND THEN WERE
' Vt? \ \ SUPPENLH SWAU-OWEt) if, . 1 UPB'I AN ENORMOUS
% V j i BLOATED
t \^~ A ( MONSTROSITY/
MEANWHILE, BACK ONI EARTH.
/HEW BIFF, X JUST qoT 
FRAME MAKER RUNNING 
ON WR PC ! '
OM 5omE u)S-feRM eeMAOS') LifofsiiP, 
 PU-S  ^Jr^fJEligpflpER7^\/hUB ColL&G6 STUtNT*S. [UNK To CWlLi^fl-ftOKl /
Cons
"Woolworth
X{ (furCThoc&&y\j
'CjooLujo^tV sftMT -TMtiAST uJtKi^V~ \ SwO&fcA C.Pi.U:D e.'OiKj.tsBg.Thdy,Nv1 ?! AMt> Moto u9Fs 20Biop
RgtIR23-]
rWtff
r
uSEWfeS?
.. /wp esfecmv (z/55-we 1&CH&T* M&VS.. -rmmMRfM/oA/s../% % CCWPM/3.**&r {MX'A.Doty,jem '
V^TOAYTWLO pN pC 1
tMt
imroseperne
irsAje^l
mw/fMmM-, /'f.VWP
^iKlrHemicz or,
M\i Mi VMi-r WUMT5 I
IPEA 5U^STe-[> &L1 NJICK THOMP50KJWAWK5

---------------------------------------------------

OOH, THIS BURNS ME UP.' A COOED MESSAGE SAiYlNG CAA.W IS A, PORRIDGE BRMM-.'" THE NERNE.'
\
TUE BIZARRE 5KJJU. DRAWING 
THE CUT ANO PASTED LETTERS, WE CODE... AH TUV SUSPENSE ANO MT3TERY TO?. AH INSULT/
mueo mut t. $r/N7r$ 
gl-ilT ,hBF3 Ah fh W3MUCH TROUBLE RRRGHH, I WISH I KNEW WHO SENT THIS.'-'
\
ANOTHER LETTER 
FOR HOO, CU! HOW NICE TO SET S3 W)CU MA\L.
LOOK,HOBBES, THE SKULL.' ITS ANOTHER VETTER FROM WE SECRET INSULTER.1
&
7hnR TBf l-3 :lWfR3LETTERS.' IT SAKS, "YOU LCK LIKE k B^OON AND YCU SMELL UKE OHE TOO.' HA. H \
THE MYSTERY ) WLIQ
DEE^coyiPBE 
"XT' SEWING 
I'CV THESES'
OH,
'YOU'RE
a m
Hap/
WHO'S BEEM SENDING ME THESE INSULTS V WHERE WILL IT STOP?.' m I GOINS TO SET AN INSULT IN THE MAIL EYERY DM FOR THE REST OF MY UFE.^
THE THING THAT DRVJES ME CRAZY VS THESES NO WM To TTiACE W\S LUNATIC.' HE'S THCWGHT OF E'JER.YTMG! HES A MASTERMIND.'
Ti
DID I GET 
ANOTHER LETTER TODAY ?
YEP.' WHEN YOU 
WRITE TO toJPSELF, Yo) SET A LOT OF MAIL.
So IT WAS YOU THE WHOLE TIME.' WRE THE ONE _ WHO'S BEEN SENDING MEINSULTS IN rV?THE MAIL !'
YOU m I ARE THROUGH/ I'LL TEACH YOU TO TRK.K ME, YOU BIG HMRBAU/
tfr
%r
OH, AND I WANT YOU TO ASK Btfott YOU CUT UP Ml MAGAZINES, OK?
ail nm, WHERE'S 
THAT MISERABLE 
BUNCH OF STRVPEY 
OWSE FLEA BMT-^
I'LL GET SOU FOR THIS ! You AND YOUR SNEAKY CODES AMD PASTED LETTERS m SKULL DRAWINGS /
YCW CAN TOI A GOOD SPY 
HIS OMINOUS LOGO.
*maui^ gW-ai
EYYYYY, YOU'RE 
RIGHT/ IT IS 
FUNNY' HA HA 
r, HA.' ..OK ! WERE 
PAIS AGAIN/ 
i>V-----------x
you |
fflia
5>iVH. to We srtAt-,i am in!
fc'CAOse lit Mix':eMasnIV inJAPI^/ GccD 
... VaJoOift 6P. 4&nJ6. 
Tile ujaIO ?>cotI,1 6M0OQ.H!'*
NJc8-7Ui jCL'hlD 11----------------------
fesTR Merf | SfcciAi Cu?v Sfry.
SJA<e,_ \JiKMLi4 Olr,. P. rr ~~L
^Si\fe HHOTQRI\%At>ser? r A<*-_ appca^^' 
^ 7% Kprr 01,
1
icME l'/ M/Wcii M^t UI2 
gA-Aley ce 'ohetHi'iJC, a ^AIPu/MBfe's B'JTT t-lMD OF KJY,
obPIW uiDO uRl3 LSE THe 
Pco e-G6 MHWf YeuS Ar 
M. pgpvjtXC MGq pNC8
i?6T, UAIT " Ht Me (5
hy'p . /irtc-M; 
Iy^WcttyNas-OW8
!y^!Rket' amy Inav^ -rric Pt-AL TPfeAT ] i s,ECY ONiiE j vd S, foi ri i L   INi TRe \
:6lb,ct\l "Ce t^o Tflii 
{ITlltJii Fcfd. A Wv'isJCi
^e^AMP^e MaloUMARC AME SLAVCR V ICHflCL OCARU
I inr by tLArti Paul rue t,Hir ar.~H7\n m toshio
,, *J , _
Siuff mcy SCIK| 115 lttl wc gci 10 prini for free
( if Yw 'RA ^ MM, MSV/&? 7#/S... 
H/HAT M -rj/ lpmrealmfy L<9/f niU 
a MU t/SW/X 
Wrru mis AMC/z^r mmie. iy ry B6-i/Mvtis A 
DnJfi. -Tri B/?AKfA5r tfoVJD 
CAM III AfjD UAD tes. Tj/ 
tf/W l/tMD Of IMZ A $ UJ/jJ fe/JiT
aoondddcad iffe
HAS A/ PN
pi/estit# wH/M //As PotWvy 
Wl gWl Wmj.TmSS.E
Mt/ W(/l S//S 0 
iffley 8MrtmAL
MAA/y wt 7f/ Ate/tr-w Powmi//. mmd Astpms
DOWN tf/mw 7V COM/DO& Of 77M - 7%wtf/s MArm/ABi. cm Mtr/3 /t/rm w/n/
jV i/MAWS of W/ZefL -tiWfaHy 3AiAA/AJ'Ywm YAM-.J
7^2!
imn ttiitiaiwiici

---------------------------------------------------

I he Identify Crisis Rr CeyU cOySvGatg sgS Ltua VtveOgGt
You tUB, APPARENTLY TH/5 GOVRNME/<r HAS "Anoth onro n seceer plot he uwdgrminethbir 
powe Bur ArP they know about this pl-Ot is
^-<r^/rr XT'S LED VY A frOY MAxet) 909 HAr^BEgCgQMag,^
WHEN NEW tfYT/MT NAME STAKreb To^ 
DlSAt>PEAe Tue ftST c#= us DO0 DEOOED
. FN0U6H WAS EHOM-H. TO DAT WeVE 
gh^aragj DOB'S , TNCLUblHi YOU^
hggJWO PRO INAC our :t fosrr/oN,NBA UABcMoAX puppyPLEASE,SIR? ea^TH!
HBY,AT 
LEAST YO/KE 
WORKING
YEAH, BUT 
SHEPIPNT 
SHOW.B.P. 
HAPTOTAK5
msauiu
P ,e8s6 p
3.<c p I
\Ot66o E
BOOPSIE? LOUSY!MY 
SIP! HOWS CHARACTER 
WE GIG, POKN'TBVEN 
BABE-? HAVE A NAME!Y i'M"secaiP
I KNOW, 
SAY I KNOW.
WHAT? m TRYING 
Z9 NOT TO TH/NK 
k ABOtTT/T.ASmWFOR.
THEKJP?n>Oc.ADq W. W6V.
Former a coautow to 
E/fsuee fcgf ,R 3P
Cons ^! YI .XN:WAdt
VEV1kGP8
IS NT THAT 
:tf&6 BOOW8
HE'S CLOCKING 95! 
WONPER /FI SHOULD 
STOP HIM WUH SAM
ON MY TTTTTT
BACK.../ \
NL. QovpJMMori 
NO Dm V.:qV 
poweepuL vsty 
. F/?lGrt7EME.b.>
6MEEE Wk 
PORSCHE IS 
ON A TEAR...
60 FORm HAIL 
THE 
TURKEY!
PANGER MOM 
AIN'T GONNA 
UKSTH/S,..
COUP 5T0PWORRYING.
WIPE I'VE GOTA
OOT... FOLI BAR'.
8NY.o 6B. ervatimg5 re/ift old wirnj 
^A CLONcYWTE'tJHWL Alita 
NL.OT$aEtq DeP^8
THEY /W GATWIMhIt 
at PlgR. li DOWN 0Y 
l ,gW ogR TowbS l
^^mat Te /IRE You^ TALKING AOOUT, A IH*LL PRICE 
To PAY? XT tfAVPEWS To BE 
74 Ki.R e-3 X Torr Dowr 
\WNW: N^C 3 CM6dd8^FlvE DOCKS? BU-rl
i LaovB! aa EGaa1
MONSTERS DOWAJ i ^ by Ti/e dock?//Afce You suJte Yooi^N 
f * Boo? The 07>/ CfoBi 
^RE MUCH DlFPeeEWT. YOUJ 
yvei ?o upt/ght. You e 
X^Hom-p reuw.HEY, nS NOT UK51 TOOK 
HER ON A HIGH-SPEED CHAS... 
p9 E HOW LONG 'HAS SHE 
E HAP THIS PIAPER
' \ \ THEHm
. \ SPEEPo
^BfXgJ~J \ CHASE! .
YOU TOOK THIS BABY 
IT WAS ON A MOTORCYCLE?
GREAT! APE YOU OUT OF
JUST YOURMtNP?
AWESOME! \
OUAITTY TIME HOKJ'PSHE 
ON HIGHWAY UKERJ9- 
1. NOTHING INGIN THE 
UtKS/T! CRUISERK
rYES, THATS TrtUc, GOT 
GATGWI why wdzE T/iECeINCt EVEN THE /iiMY X%
io no TweeE. ^
^AND ACTUAU-V NM^^y 
M0NSTEK5 ACENr THAT8At>. oaRk 9lf l IR,80 05 N OW /j/vt itOS v
d9 DYN XN8w 6 M6YT V 
^ PRICE To PAY.
TO BE crowT/AVu&P 
p ElPtin ,: E
NO, ME PONT ...FLAKE
THERE ARE OUT! COHO
PLENTY OF DONT SHOW
TE6N-A6E UP! UJHO
GRIS mO.CANT BE 
I TRUSTEP!
B.P.THISIS 
NOW, IMPORTANT/
BOOPStE... WENEEP I PROFESSION-1 AL HOP/
B.Q, TAKING SAM TO WORK 
WITH YOU IS NOT ACCEPT
ABLE! HJE CANT GOON LIKE 
THIS! WE NEEP EIVE-IN 
HELP!
NO, I PlPNT HMH...MUST 
HEAR ANYHAVE BEEN
THING. WHY* THE TV....
CtM6C w IyTIf ,L.M 
I H8MC MGPefGPR "AOt<6\eq VYMOO$w8
^ AG6W sn
X O* M ^
^
na : oa n
GoOP
nOl l>G6- s9 snn PSv NWfG
OP OWV-AC IOsq NLG N6rN6W fS20NKER? 
BOOK/EON 
7HEFH0NE! 
SHESCUNPS 
PiSTR/mUr
YOU'VE GOT 
A JOB?
TIME TO MOVE 
ON, POP. GAIN
FUL-EMPLOY 
BECKONS.
WELL, NOT YET. BUT 
I HAVE A GOOP 
FEEUN6 ABOUT MY 
PROSPECTS. >TTTTTTf
CALL IT PEST/NY. 
THANKS FOR 
EVERYTHING, 
PAD.
SON? ARE YOU 
PACKING? WHAT'S 
GOING ON? \
YOU PO? 
WHY?
YuOyt^
LCK MOM
BO., THERE'S NO |
WAY AROUND IT|
WEHAVBTOHAVE w www 
AUV&jN! OH, RIGHT. 
X \ ON WHOSE
f -MM SALARY?
YOUR. STARLET 
SALARY? MY 
ROOKIE CN/P 
SALARY? GET 
C PEAL! :8
WE JUST CAN7AFF0RP 
IT. END OF SUBJECT. 
WHO'S AT THE POOR?
ITISI  
MARY POPP/NS;
HTH^s To mah x SToU
iuuEf\ ^onmy )y Dexter). 2:3akab
Dyr :GM. tv 6|W mlA:NyOYq "B.6YNo8 pC N>|tME3TB>N>Ai Do LpC Nw3&9 "6BbZ
OKA-/. ME Tht <S)\(isrio^JHw uJHAT? rAol 
gtK>).Bgt>:qN
*** dil^uiit4 a.i a. ^
gtyS Pr6igagtS riportar 
POn 6 (VdPGjOn 
Ua,emPGmenqqq *
'AU.WtHT. "iMACjlWE -ioa'llE OU KDkTE UJ(TM A
DP(W\b$T YOM6Lqqq" 6..9 Nn)tv M6LV 1w 
ft YWfcTWTiCM. smjKTlokJ Fot yij hihI
rOAI/fiHTi TOP STORY, A 
GlAMT E66 TEBRORIltl 
THt DOWNTOH/H AREA. FOR 
MORf, WE turn; TO ROBEItT 
6RADY AT THE 5CN, LIVE
AWOV; p 6.dp.VA
r)LtN p8M ..yWtt( 6 ClAUX 
46 CADSltJ^ IJAIJTOtJ 
!GtjNBYANyOME tG HAAM 
Yf!6YfN.! DV PGYMPtC.E
CAjJ MOTHWi5Top THIS 
hiAI:B, JOtq ernAut
IS OUR FAIR C IT Y 
DOOMED? WILL MO
owe sAV/r as?,/
.VlE'fi WHMS-IHAT SuPToSEP T1 MEM?
~" :---------- ''tJeu^l.CT'S FAte IT Youn IMC tips' 
^ ISALMWT rMA-Tttl y
k>t -nt-4E ! ) & ^^---- JSL
W6C OYCTn OY NL6N N>:N. Svsl 
dghpdOOta)Gqqq GtGC.P9 WL.p 
dO6G NL6NTqT LMM8q q TTTTTT
.V.fpMk
ytWtKttttt)ttgttyyjdGP pLN
6 \ OnG9 CLYN YI DY! 8
1 Ef,T NouR BWlM / .iVV. FOH6V.__'Y'OU'RE our 
OMuy \\OPE 
:yYY.Iq AqOM:W-q
mi. we' MwuWdWTpp
6NTgWkPE bOPe MT 
U.A y6:Cefq

---------------------------------------------------

noting
{TWffFTfnifin^^ located some intruders/
[Connect phaser remotes to our communicator p3tcbeslr\
l can do it, ut'N ) it u>ill take ti'mej
y Somehow I feoeu you . } ucre Jn to say tMt* 
POST ASAP,0Kt>
^Captain! HI rcjjij. Everybody on thrae^ ont, two, FlV/-er, umtData, that's your rportj
It$ in update ef thi est 
recent p/ot developments,
but that's not important J r/nAi /inui
/ y /.C-E-nl'J nysoJdo . -H B BO________Il I I ^ 55/ a f r1- ----------/ A finct-lu gzx 3S
>-------------L/I -.\-------1--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------y VI] \ I TO BE COMTMI/FP'.. Is---------------JYou can fool 30% of the people 100% of tf* tj/ne, X#% ef tic petfie 30% Bfthettm*, Urt y~ c*i* /./ 700% 0/ f/# popk 100% of the tiniWould this be considered just cause for getting a new roommate?
ConTiriuin^ on his <ue5TFO'~ 
Ctde^Phe,n> Joe-i v-ccompaniet 
by jhe. purgarory S^per^iSoTj 
atttrri pr5 r^ore Sfir<rva.) To
En1'e.('h\"n ivTj children 
a,t an orpvoa.oo.^e 
/\ps/EN)TUpE5
jm    nvEOl^j 
rny5teciJo&
\6Et\y magically
p^T tv, v'oli/niveC 
Rset^ Gaomg|tn 
fHelpi'nt5rreer.
By GARY LAR50N
Clcknnj up a. /-)ITV|y 
bo.cn af hoOe. 5Tabli-S
marita' ConFi'CrSuntil ffoe cMv
O
nt88
yPnro
\ 5*0" *W ^
qai98Vn8
/t'.zr:AxtXbaci ToOK Id say early Julyy
i9S: FrWoiks ine DiiUiauitd sv u^.emi Puss S-.-.ji;987 FjrV/oiki ine DisHiPuicd &/ unr.tiMi Press Syndicate
.snyo sneUsaOyOtvGvLao1 6EO, Uan ,UOya UasS tv OrG1qqq NUtv 
tv aGGtg RaGGan alano $tgrGaq"
MrGsgGv Og GUa DOrgGo
- Unrversa:Distnoulid 6y Ufuveiul Pi ms S/nd tile
pgaimytesRyo9 DORv mOnermtga Oav PysGqNUa GOsvGan Stlanv OP IsO IsObnsguta1 LsgS $a GUsG vesyanq

---------------------------------------------------

Cafor
Submissions of poetry, fiction, essays, 
photographs, and two-dimensional 
artwork are now being accepted for 
publication in the Fall 1992 and 
20 th Aniversary/Spring 1993 editions 
of the Oakland Review.
Submissions should include a cover sheet with the 
author's name, mailing address, and telephone 
number. Submissions will not be returned to off-campus 
addresses without a self-addressed, stamped envelope.
Submissions should be delivered to the Skibo Informa
tion Desk, and clearly marked "Oakland Review."
Deadline for submission to the Fall 1992 edition is November 30, 1992. 
Deadline for the 20lh Anniversary edition is yet to be determined.
SubmissionsThe Oakland Review is partially funded by the student activities fee.
Q M
 P
w raPQ s
b IpS 
wX 
H 
W
w
o
z
aQcn
QC
P
X
H
Smoker's Survival KitPick one up at information tables around campus and trade in your cigarettes for some healthier treats !!
Free Health Walk ClassStudents, faculty and staff are all invited to this free class in exchange for a cigarette! ! 12-12:30 in the gym.
Adopt A Smokerfor the day and help a friend to get through the day without a cigarette! Pick up Official Adoption papers at the Student Health Services!!
AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETYt
GREAT AMERICAN
SMOKEOUT
sponsored by American Cancer Society, Student Health Services and Dining Service
Political Speakers Forum Board Presents:
Discrimination
Against Gays & Lesbians 
by ROTC and The Military
Joseph Steffan was near the fop of his class at 
the Naval Academy at Annapolis, but was 
kicked out just before graduation after it was 
discovered that he is gay.
Monday, November 16 
8 pm, Skibo Ballroom
CrmmOnGaS Ro -Orn CGrSagG 6eGtltGtav baa
WOMENS WRESTLING CLUB
esg $sua oOr s vGsn 
InOTvGoyaS alagGv9 ,tGU va$tTmnO mso NO -OY
GET PAID FOR WRESTLING
UP TO 5 TIMES A WEEK!
CantOrv WO$ag OfdgaaS smmyo bOn smmOtgG$agG esyy 6FT0M
Professional Instruction & work-out facilities FREE 
Enjoy all expence paid trips, 
on weekends, throughout 
N.Y. W. Va. Pa. Md & Oh.
NO SALES INVOLVED 
NO COST TO YOU.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
faRFh-ihBW 
$L5eu me1uLL
ONE WEEK ON
iriQ
inanother
imension
Nicholas Nickleby 
shines at Kresge
By ANDREW SPROULE
Tartan Staffivriter
Four shillings for one play? Well, with a lot of 
people in it and it is very long. These words, 
spoken in CMUs 1992 senior production, are a 
better description of Nicholas Nickleby than I 
could ever come up with. Moreover, it was worth 
it. The plays total running time is approximately 
eight and a half hours, and I mean this with the 
utmost sincerity, it did not seem to last half that 
time. Even though the play could run fine in eight 
hours, the production crew, ever concerned about 
keeping the audience content, broke it up into two 
separate partsapproximately four hours apiece.
Every aspect of production was done with such 
professionalism and slickness that one would be 
hard pressed to complain about any part of the 
play. It was overwhelming.
This particular production was full of a lot of 
firsts for a CMU production. The cast of this play, 
requiring more than 53 actors, included people 
from outside the CMU community and also from 
the faculty of the CMU drama department. Moat 
notable, from outside CMU and members of the 
Actors Equity Association, were Laurie Klatscher 
(Mrs. Nickleby and Mrs. Curdle), Tony McKay 
(Ralph Nickleby), and Don Wadsworth (Newton 
Noggs and Handsaw). Also from Actors Equity 
were Lynne Innerst, Matt Tobin, and Robert 
Parks. CMU faculty in the play were Elisabeth 
Orion (Head of the Drama department and Head 
of acting), Judy Conte (Movement and Dance), 
and Janet Morrison (Acting and Directing). The
:Olyg AUOgENgnGgg IUOGOnsmUOn 
Aaron Hartpeld (loft), Tamllla Woodard (back), and 
Rlk Nagel (front) appear In Nicholas Nickleby.
play was directod by two faculty membors, Jod Allen 
Harris and Gregory Lehane (Associate Professor of 
Drama). In th ond, however, tho students wore tho 
outstanding part of this production.
Tho story begins when Nicholas Nickleby (senior 
John Hollywood), his sistor Kate (Bonior KaU Rocha), 
and his mothor move to London from tho country 
after his father dies. They go to London in hopes of 
/Lhhzh BOO NICKLEBY, pngo Lll
Speaker evokes 
cyberspace
By KRISTEN BEVERIDGE
Tartan Staffivriter
Imagine being able to function 
in a computer-generated environ
ment, similar to those in the mov
ies Tron and Total Recall. Imag
ine being able to meet with people 
on the other side of the world 
without ever leaving your home, 
discover endless amounts of in
formation at your disposal, defy 
gravity  all through computersimulated imaging. These ideas 
may seem far out" to many of us 
but not according to Michael 
Benedikt, who spoke here at the 
Alumni Concert Hall on Tuesday 
on the issues of virtual reality or 
cyberspace in architecture.
Benedikt is one of the contribu
tors to the first Aris publication, 
Carnegie Mellons architecture 
journal, which came out this fall. 
He was brought to CMU as the 
initial speaker in what Todd 
Sanders (Arch., 92) says will be 
the first of many Aris lectures. 
Currently a professor at the Uni
versity of Texas at Austin, 
Benedikt is also the author oftwo 
books, For an Architecture of Re
ality and Deconstructing the 
Kimbell, and he is also the editor 
of the book, Cyberspace. He is 
presently working on a third book 
dealing with the study of depth.
Benedikt began the talk with a 
discussion challenging the defi
nitions of what is real and what is 
deep. He focused upon buildings 
in post-modern society which 
have become victims of a sign, 
symbol, and consumer-oriented 
culture and as a result have lost 
their realness. A good example 
of this phenomenon can be seen 
in the structures in Disney World, 
with their blatant facade-oriented 
exteriors, comparable to the ic
ing on birthday cake  Benedikt 
might refer to them as enter
taining shelters. Buildings, ac
cording to Benedikt, should pos
ses the same qualities as found 
objects; things that are found to 
be useful and important, not 
things that are intended to serve 
a purpose and simultaneously 
convey an entirely different mes
sage. This point was illustrated 
by a 20 minute silent slide pre
sentation in which two screens 
were used side by side with slides 
consisting of anything from trees
and fields to the hallways of a 
Mexican childrens school. AH of 
the images depicted a sense of 
depth and realness whether it be 
in nature or architecture.
After tho first set of slides, the 
topic changed focus to the issue of 
depth in a different area; the 
depth of cyberspace. Cyberarch
itecture deals with architectural 
design on a purely technological, 
computer-oriented level. Build
ings can now be designed solely 
on the computer, and with the 
use of light, scanners, and per
spective views; they can be recre
ated in virtual reality and en
tered by humans before they are 
even constructed. Benedikt an
ticipates that the time will come 
when many buildings wont be 
built, because it will only be nec
essary for them to function in 
cyberspace rather than in the real 
world. Not all. structures will be 
computer-generated, but there 
will be a definite and obligatory 
split between traditional archi
tecture and cyberarchitecture. 
Because our society is so crazed 
for information, cyberspace will 
be our epitome of a dimension in 
which everything is broken up 
into data rather than tangible 
objects. Benedikt drew the fan
tastic analogy that Cyberspace 
is where your money is when you 
put it in the bank.
In the near future, virtual real
ity may very well be part of our 
everyday lives (whether we want 
it or not)a place where we will 
have business interactions and 
endless amounts of recreation and 
entertainment. Our world will be 
expanded so immensely that 
right, left, up, and down will no 
longer hold so much significance. 
Many believe that human beings 
wont be as significant either  
we will be tho subjects of a mass 
network computer. At the end of 
the lecture, many of the ques
tions asked of Benedikt expressed 
fears and concerns of cyberspace 
and its potential to become like 
Big Brother, to dehumanize and 
become the ultimate societal es
capist drug (we already know 
some of those email addicts). His 
responses were all very calm and 
optimistic, but it didnt appear as 
if he took the threat of these is
sues too seriously.
Please see CYBERARCH, page Lll
Go see Malcolm X 'by 
any means necessary
By NICOLE ALLEN
Tartan Staffivriter
Malcolm X was assassinated at the Audubon Ballroom in New 
York at age 39. Rarely has a man who lived such a brieflifeleft such 
a lasting impression on his contemporaries and generations that 
followed. People view him in different ways, and for the most part, 
he has been largely misunderstood.
As his legacy continues, people try to sort through the myths to 
see who Malcolm X truly was. Spike Lees answer to that question 
is the film Malcolm X.
Acclaimed filmmaker Lee brings to the screen the fascinating 
life of this visionary black leader. This film is based on the book The 
Autobiography ofMalcolmX as told to Alex Haley and a screenplay 
by Lee and Arnold Pearl. Labeled as the eye-opening film of the 
year, Malcolm X sets out to do just that.
The brilliant cast illuminates the many people and events that 
shaped the life of the leader Malcolm X. The cast includes Denzel 
Washington, Angela Bassett, Albert Hall, A1 Freeman, Jr., Delroy 
Undo, and Lee, as well as many others.
This film stars Academy Award winner Washington in the title 
role of Malcolm Little, who was known at different times as Detroit 
Red, Satan, Malcolm X, and ElHajj Malik El-Shabazz. This is 
Washingtons second collabo
ration with Spike Lee, having 
previously worked and starred 
with the director in Mo' Better 
Blues.
He is also no stranger to play
ing the role of Malcolm X as he 
starredin the Negro Ensemble 
Companys production of When 
the Chickens Came Home to 
Roost. On the big screen, he 
certainly had his work cut out 
for him with the enormous re
sponsibility of bringing Mal
colm X to life.
In order to achieve this, there 
must be a great actor, and Spike 
Lee picked a winner in Wash
ington. The audience was
eOrnGavo Wsngan DnOGUanv9 pgeq 
Malcolm (Denzel Washington) addresses an audience of Harlem 
residents outside the legendary Apollo Theatre In Malcolm X.
moved by his performance and realistic portrayal of one of the 
most charismatic political voices in American history.
The supporting cast brings to life the different people who came 
in and out of Malcolm Xs life and helped make him the man he 
was. PortrayingMalcolms wife, Betty Shabazz, is Angela Bassett, 
who is probably most known for her role inBoyz N the Hood. Albert 
Hall plays Baines, the man who introduced and steered Malcolm 
X toward the Islamic religion.
A] Freeman, Jr. portrays Elijah Muhammad, the controversial 
leader of the Nation of Islam. Delroy Lindo portrays West Indian 
Archie, the Harlem kingpin who schools Malcolm in the tricks of 
the hustling trade. Lee plays Malcolms pal, Shorty, during his 
criminal years. There were also cameo appearances by Nelson 
Mandela, Bobby Seale, Reverend A1 Sharpton, John Sayles, and 
Peter Boyle.
By any means necessary. This is the quote that Malcolm X is 
known for, if nothing else. If the purpose of Lees film was to show one phrase spoken by a great political leader.
that Malcolm X was a complex man who underwent many trans
formations in order to search for the truth, he succeeded.
Lee served as writer, director, and producer of this film. He 
combines history, drama, and a contemporary perspective. Any
one who is a fan of Lees films will see many similarities in humor 
as well as the cinematography.
Filmed on location in New York, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and South 
Africa, the film is designed in three parts. The first part covers 
Malcolms early years; the second covers his period of enlighten
ment in prison; and the third covers his development as an 
activist. Malcolm Xs widow, Dr. Betty Shabazz served as a 
creative consultant to the project.
There were no short cuts in this film. Every detail seemed 
meticulously taken care of, from the actors to music, choreogra
phy, and costumes. My companion and I commented on the fact 
that all characters bore great resemblance to their real life 
counterparts.
Every scene and each character was believable. Many bio
graphical films have been known to leave some skeletons in the 
closet, but everything rumored to be true about Malcolm X was 
either put to rest or was corrected on the screen, from his days as 
a criminal, his white lover, his stand on President Kennedys
assassination, controversial 
problems with the Nation of 
Islam, and travel to the Middle 
East.
This made the audience be
lieve that the film was realis
tic. Telling the story ofMalcolm 
X required representing 
America from the 1930s to the 
present.
Every time frame was well 
accounted for with the prop 
detailing down to an exact sci
ence. The scenes from the jour
ney to Mecca were breathtak
ing.
Also, there were several 
shots during the film of Mar
tin Luther King, Jr. and the 
upheaval of America during 
its civil rights movement. An 
added flare to the film was the portrayal of civil rights problems 
and footage ofMalcolm X himself in his many moods and interac
tion with people.
Malcolm X is an epic tale of a man whose words changed the 
world and ultimately declared that people of all colors could work 
and live together if they were of good will. This film is an effective 
tool for political statement.
It delves much deeper into who Malcolm X truly was instead of 
the quick quote, We declare our right on this Earth to be man, to 
be a human being, to be respected as a human being, to be given 
the rights of a human being, in this society, on this Earth, in this 
day, which we intend to bring into existence by any means 
necessary, that most Americans get in high school history courses 
and books.
After seeing this film, it is my hope that people will become more 
educated and acutely aware that by any means necessary is but

---------------------------------------------------

L10rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o CW R,Tewbei CSSu
Thursday, November 19Night on Earth
Night On Earth transforms the commonplace into something haunting, mysterious, and newly true, says The New York Times. Director Jim Jarmusch, who also directed Stranger Than Para
dise and Mystery Train, brings about this minimal neo-realist film.The film begins with five clocks from different cities: Rome, New York, Los Angeles, Helsinki, and Paris. A clock is zoomed and a story of one of five cab drivers begins. The film is a vignette of five taxi drivers from five different worlds in one night. The stars include Winona Ryder, Gena Rowlands, Giancarlo, and Armin Mueller-Stahl.Plan on watching this off-beat, humorous, and clever film.At 6, 8:30,11 pm.
Friday, November 20Raising Cain
Raising Cain dwells on the story of multiple personalities. Brian DePalma, of Scarface fame, has once again brought about a new dimension into normal everyday life.. Raising Cain has been called DePalmas Psycho.John Lithgow plays several roles including a psychologist, his evil twin brother (his split personality), and several other personalities. As a child, he was subject to the abuse of his fathers psychology experiments which resulted in his disturbed mentality as well as his multiple personalities. Lithgow becomes his fathers guinea pig again by stealing young children, including his own, for his fathers next experiment.Suddenly, there are a series of murders and disappearances of children and people. Lithgow discovers that his wife has been cheating on him. He then attempts to murder her and frame her lover for all of the murders Lithgow has been committing. The police find themselves in a weird trap when they meet an associate of the father. They realize that his book, Raising Cain, was based on one study of a concocted patient, possibly his son. Lithgows wife returns and has her husband arrested. Lithgow escapes to find his father. His father at the moment has several children, including Lithgows daughter. Confused, Lithgow realizes that his fathers ways are evil and he tries to reform himself. Just how does he do this? Youll have to watch the movie to see.The plot is very complicated and it takes awhile to understand what is exactly going on. The suspense is overwhelming and will leave you guessing. This a movie to definitely spend your dollar on.At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
Saturday, November 21A League of Their Own
The men leave to fight in World War II and what is left are empty hearts, and empty bases. Women have proven once again that they can survive without men because in all realms, including that of baseball, women can fill the mens shoes.
A League of Their Own is the story of womens professional baseball during World War II. Directed by Penny Marshall of Big fame, the film stars Geena Davis, Madonna, Rosie ODonnell, and Lori Petty from Point Break, as members of the Rockford Peaches and Tom Hanks as their has-been drunken manager.Definitely worth your dollar. Go see this film.At 5:15, 7:30,10 pm, 12:15 am.
Sunday, November 22Ziggy Stardust
The real title of this film is Ziggy Stardust and 
the Spiders from Mars. Sounds like a bad science fiction flick, doesnt it? Well, its not. Its really a 1973 concert flick of David Bowie as his androgynous later ego, Ziggy Stardust.Called cinema verite at its worst, Ziggy 
Stardust and the Spiders from Mars is for true Bowie fans only. Anyone else will probably wont be able to stand it.At 6, 8,10 pm, midnight.
By BARBARA REYES & TARA M. SEMAN
mini reviews  mini reviews  mini reviews  mini
Copper BlueSugar
With his new band, Sugar, Bob 
Mould has revitalized both his 
music and career. His first band, 
Hiisker Dii, started out playing 
hardcore punk, but over the 
course of eight albums, they mi
grated towards slower songs with 
more distinctly pop-influenced 
melodies.
However, due to the bands in
ternal problems, Hiisker Dii 
broke up in 1987. In 1989, Mould 
released his first solo album, 
Workbook, in which he abandoned 
his electric guitar and created an 
album of thoughtful, acoustic 
pieces. His second solo album, 
Black Sheets of Rain, was released 
in 1990. It was lethargic and 
disappointing.
Copper Blue, on the other hand, 
is exceptionally good. Mould has 
continued in his tradition of writ
ing catchy pop songs backed by 
loud and heavy guitar riffs. But 
hes also managed to invest his 
new songs with an energy that 
his fans have not seen since 
Hiisker Dus New Day Rising. An 
important note to make here is 
that in this post-Nirvana world 
of hard rock (thinly disguised as 
alternative), Sugar is not a 
grunge band or anything remotely 
similar.
Tracks like Helpless and 
Changes contain obvious pop 
influences and are perhaps two 
of the most commercially-viable 
songs Mould has ever written. 
One song that has created a mi
nor controversy is A Good Idea, 
which many have pointed out as 
extremely reminiscent of the Pix
ies. Although I might hesitate in 
accusing Mould of stealing an
other bands melody, I have to
admit that the song does remind 
me vaguely of Doolittle-era Pix
ies. Although some may say that 
most of this album sounds ex
actly like his solo material or his 
later years with Hiisker Dii, I 
believe that this is true only to a 
certain extent. Without being 
completely derivative of his older 
material, Mould has created a 
very entertaining summary of 
his recent musical career in Cop
per Blue.
 Tom LeeThe cover art on Sugars Copper Blue album.
eOrnGavo OP BouOStve
YgtlanvtGo OP ItGGvRrnU
Associate Dean of Faculty of Arts and Sciences
The Faculty of Arts and Sciences (FAS) at the University of Pittsburgh is currently accepting applications and nominations for the position of Associate Dean. The individual filling this position will be responsible for overseeing affirmative action efforts for faculty and students and for faculty development. Reporting to the Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Sciences, this person will be in charge of proposing, implementing, and evaluating affirmative action strategies for faculty and students. This person will also assist in faculty development, including monitoring of recruitment efforts, preparation of appointment files, and assisting faculty in preparing dossiers. Assisting in curricular planning and faculty resource allocation are additional responsibilities of this individual.
Candidates should have a terminal graduate degree or equivalent experience. Sensitivity to affirmative action issues is necessary as are organizational, communication, and leadership skills. Experience in affirmative action activities as well as experience in teaching and research would be helpful.
Send a detailed curriculum vitae, a letter outlining your interest in the position, and names and addresses of 3 references to: Dean Mary Lou Soffa, Chair, Search Committee, Office of Graduate Studies, 910 C.L. University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, 15260 by January 15, 1993.
The University of Pittsburgh is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer and encourages applications from women and minorities.
Challenge your knowledge...test your skills...In a 
company that Inspires performance at its best  
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc. (BBN).
Bring your talents to a $270 million leader that's 
been pioneering innovative technologies and soft
ware combining advanced communications, 
simulation, acoustics and data analysis for more 
than 45 years.
Choose your specialty: Intelligent systems, network 
technology, distributed operating systems develop
ment, experimental psychology, speech and digital 
signal processing, structural dynamics, applied 
physics and architectural and underwater 
acoustics.
You'll join a worldwide community of more than 
2,000 employees, all committed to keeping BBN on 
the cutting edge of technology. Youll enjoy a 
competitive salary and benefits, tuition reimburse
ment, growth opportunities and amenities such as 
exercise facilities, libraries, private offices and ex
tensive computer resources.
If youre about to graduate with a degree in EE, 
CS, Applied Math or Physical Science, consider 
seizing the kind of opportunities only BBN can 
offer. Sign up with your Career Services office 
for our on-campus interviews, or send your 
resume to Dept. CR, Bolt Beranek and Newman 
Inc., 10 Moulton Street, Cambridge, MA 02138. 
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/D/V.
WE WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
DECEMBER 1ST.
Seize
The
Challenge

---------------------------------------------------

rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o CW R,Tewbei CSSu111
Nicholas Nickleby shines through at Kresge
NICKLEBY from page L9 is melodrama at its very finest,
getting a little help from Uncle Ralph The plot twists are many, and I will 
Nickleby. Thus begins the plunge into a not ruin it for you by disclosing them, 
world of evil controlled by the love of The acting is tight and kept immensely
smooth by the 
different char
acters narrating 
their thoughts.
The transition 
between acting 
and narration, 
surprisingly, 
added, rather 
than detracted, 
to the produc
tion as whole. I 
usually do not 
care for narra
tion, but in this 
case, it gives one 
the impression 
of living within 
the Dickens 
novel.
The acting 
wasnt the only 
thing that made 
this play great.
money. Nicholas is led through differScenery and the changing of scenery 
ent parts of England and increasingly was some of the best I have ever seen, 
difficult tragedies. His mother and sisThe scenery consisted of a wooden structer are left in London to ride the tide of ture that resembled a balcony over the 
bad events that are visited upon them stage that had three movable risers, 
by Uncle Ralph and various others. This When it was time for a scene change,
I
:altg AUagENsnGsg IUOGOnsmUan 
Allan Middleton takes aim at Nicholas Nickleby (John Hollywood) 
with Bob Parks in the background.
Cyberspace evoked
CYBERSPACE from page L9
Benedikt may have a healthy 
view of cyberspace and a good 
understanding of its redeeming 
qualities but shouldnt fail to rec
ognize the other people out there 
who m ay think differentlywho 
may see cyberspace as an oppor
tunity for a computer program to 
control people and their minds. 
And what about the people who 
dont choose to be involved with 
cyberspace  will it be possible 
not to be involved or will the 
technology be so forceful that 
there wont be a choice  what 
will people think of anticyberspacies? Its an extremely 
subjective issue, which means 
that along with the wonderful 
qualities of a technological ad
vancement come risks as well. 
There could possibly be a point 
at which the risks presented by 
progress are no longer worth
taken by humanity. After all, who 
needs more information and who 
needs a faster paced life than we 
already have? Who wants credit 
card companies and the govern
ment to have more access to our 
private lives than they already 
do? Who wants to function some
place where everyone can know 
anything  a computer knows 
everything and there is no such 
thing as human scale  even in 
the architecture?
Benedikt did a fantastic job of 
giving the audience food for 
thought  food for thought that 
may have a serious impact on 
our lives unless we decide what 
we value and how we want our 
future to exist. Cyberspace is an 
issue that people must consider 
seriously, before it has the po
tential to be there without hope 
of ever going away.
Exhibit humorizes art
statements are pseudo-statements, the image is pseudo
precious. The idea is not new. 
I felt that Good accomplished 
this.
Many of the questions and 
thoughts he presents are apBy JASON mWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
I walked into Hewlett Gallery 
not knowing whatto expect. Jay 
Eliot Goods exhibit, Computer 
Folk Art, had just opened. The 
first thing I saw were images of parent in todays culture, but 
dogs contemplating computer Good brings out the underlyhardware. ing humor in them, through
Ive seen so many exhibits his choice of text and image, 
using dogs recently that I For those of you that think
art should be 
aesthetically 
pleasing as 
well as stimu
late the gray 
matter, 
Goods older 
work, on loan 
from Plastic
wanted to leave 
right then, but 
a string trio was 
playing, setting 
a mood, and I 
thought I should 
follow.
While every
one was walking 
around playing 
the Well, what
Aavsn CsgeUazENsnGsg IUOGO .StGOn Surgery Inc., 
People gaze at Goods exhibit, does just 
do you think? game, I stood at that.
the back wall reading and look
ing, reading and laughing.
In Goods own words, I have 
made an attempt to create im
ages which become statements, 
and statements that not only 
refer primarily to the image,
It also lets one see from where 
Good has progressed to his cur
rent work.
Goods exhibit wont change 
your view on the world, but its 
irony and parody will makeyou 
laugh, and make you think,
but champion the fact that the and that is enough.
ffo.n
ruL6ROnGtOg vanlteav GO w ,aauv 
Ro GUa natOgv $OvG 
aimantageaS mnOltSanq
 bB.. mnagsgeo GavGvq
 .imantageaS oga esna
 AOrgvaytg
 CN! & LIV venaagtg
 AOgPtSagGtsy9 AOglagtagG9 
6PPOnSsRya GO syyq
S|gg| Women'sv u'b Health Services
Of Western Pennsylvania
562-19001
Toll free 800-426-46361 
107 6th St.. Downtown M-Sat 8-5. Thurs. l2-9pm MC/VISA/ HMOVBC/BS
the risers were moved in mechanically 
and provided continuity in the scenes, 
which, as you can imagine is very impor
tant in an eight-hour production.
Costumes were fantastic in their rep
resentation of the period, and the light
ing only had a few problems. Occasion
ally, when there was a group of people 
talking, only half of them were lit. This 
made it difficult to see who was involved 
in the scene.
The lighting problem only happened 
twice, therefore it didnt constitute too 
much of a problem, and I am sure they 
will work them out by the next play date.
The first four-hour part ended with 
things starting to look up for Nicholas, 
but they were by no means solved.
Everybody involved was fantastic; 
however, there were a few standouts. 
Alison Metcalf, who played Madame 
Mantalini, Phib, Mrs. Cutler, Miss 
Gazingi, and Mrs. Snawley, was so su
perb in every part that I often didnt 
realize it was the same person. If I werent 
being a unbiased reporter, I would de
clare my undying love and promise to 
follow her career for the rest of my life.
Wadsworth, as Newman Noggs, 
seemed so real to me that I felt I actually 
knew and understood him. Orion, the 
head of the Drama Department, was 
both charming and humorous as Mrs. 
Crummies and managed to be convinc
ing in the other parts she played.
Hollywood as Nicholas was so per
fectly cast that if one could have picked 
the actor to play the part from scratch, 
he would most likely have been the end 
result. Kate, as played by Rocha, was 
also very good. As I mentioned earlier, 
everyone was wonderful, but the actor 
who stood out the most was Mike Messer 
as Smike.
I realize that it is a lot easier to give 
credit to someone when they play a 
tragic figure, but he was absolutely 
amazing in his portrayal. Messer com
pletely embodied compassion, grace, and 
wit in a character that required those 
qualities to the utmost.
The second four-hour part was opened 
by a brief summary of what had taken 
place so far. It was acted and narrated 
so well that one could have conceivably 
missed the first part and still ergoyed 
the second part. It was to the point and 
yet all-inclusive. Brilliant. I assume they 
do this since the audience would nor
mally have a day break in between the 
two parts and this would refresh their 
memory.
The second half ran, if it is possible, 
better than the first. How the cast kept 
up the energy, I cant imagine. The reso
lution of the plot was effective, stun
ning, and surprised me, even though I 
had read the novel. It wasnt that I
didnt know what was going to happen, 
but it was so well done.
It is hard to say this and sound con
vincing without sounding ludicrous, but 
the ending did kind of drag a bit. I can 
imagino people who haven't soon the 
play, thinking to themselves that the 
ending was probably about six hours too 
long. That wasnt the problem. I cannot 
put my finger on what the problem was 
except to say that there were so many 
loose ends to be tied up by the plays end 
that maybe it just seemed too much.
I understand that it may be very hard 
to accept all of this praise and not think 
I am being overly biased. But, Ill be 
honest  I went with very low expecta
tions because it was going to be eight 
hours of my time, and I am used to short 
TV shows and movies.
I also realize that you probably wont 
even begin to understand the play by 
what I have written. There is just so 
much that I can cover; so much hap
pened that I could write indefinitely. 
Fortunately for everyone, I dont have 
that ability. The play did have some 
problems, which I touched on, but on 
the whole it was fantastic. Go see it. You 
wont be disappointed.
Nicholas Nickleby plays through Sat
urday, December 12, in the Kresge The
atre. Call the Drama box office at 268- 
2407 for ticket information.
Spalding Gray conducts his own 
therapy session at Lepper lecture
By TINA L. URSO
Tartan Production Manager
If you were lucky enough to see Spalding Gray on Tuesday night 
in the Carnegie Lecture Hall, you experienced the wit and charm 
of a man who is able to use stories of his own life for subject matter, 
dissecting and analyzing them in public for everyone to hear. He 
has a way of showing us how to laugh at the light side of our lives 
as he exposes the dark parts of his own. Grays appearance was the 
Robert Lepper lecture sponsored by the Art Department.
It is very hard to say whether Grays appearance last Tuesday 
was a lecture, a monologue, or a piece of art; Grays work is 
extremely difficult to label. Part anecdotal lecturer, part public 
self-psychologist, part tragic stage hero, and possibly even part 
stand-up comedian, Gray exceeds the boundaries of the definable.
But who needs paltry boundaries anyway? What is definable is 
Grays enormous talent and wit, of which he has plenty, and his 
ability to make the entire audience feel as though we were his close 
confidants.Gray spent the evening telling us a story of how [he] 
came to tell stories. It was a personal adventure beginning in his 
childhood days in Rhode Island and more or less ending with his 
being in front of us that evening.
His story began in a Christian Scientist home from the WASP, 
country club part of town, where he was found to be mildly dyslexic 
and was considered slow in school. He didnt enjoy school very 
much, even had to repeat the seventh grade, and used to stay home 
a lot, telling his mother he was sick (he lightly added that his 
mother could never prove any different because they were Chris
tian Scientists).
He took solace in dreaming about becoming a race car driver and 
even tried to get into the vocational mechanics classes, which he 
said were meant for those from the other side of the tracks, lower 
class Italians, not for boys from his background. When he learned 
how to drive, he used to take the family car out with a friend and 
speed it along back roads. His dream was crushed forever when he 
got into a near-fatal accident that left the car with irretrievable 
damage, hanging over a sea-cliff wall.
After all of these problems, Grays father sent him away to a 
boarding school, which was ahead of his old school, requiring him 
to repeat ninth grade as well, but this ended up being an important 
event in his life. He decided to try out for the school play his junior 
year, but his nervousness and dyslexia at tryouts prevented him 
from getting the part. When he tried again his senior year, he got 
a part playing a mental patient, where the director allowed him to 
improvise, and this was the turning point where he finally found 
what he wanted to do in life. He went on to study liberal arts at 
Boston University because he didnt have enough experience to get 
into acting school, but soon transferred to Emerson College, where 
he got very involved with theatre, and where he later graduated. 
After graduation, he went on to work in regional theatre in Texas,
but he didnt like the atmosphere. When he wont homo, ho found his 
mother suffering from a nervous breakdown, and tried to take Caro 
of her for a whilo, but soon left with his girlfriend for Mexico, whoro 
thoy lived, out of touch with family and friends lor an ontiro 
summer.
When Gray came back in the fall, his mother was doad. She had 
asphyxiated herself in the garage. Ho could nover roully got ovor 
that, and it still haunts him. Much of what ho doos on the stage he 
describes as a therapy for this haunting" over his deceased mother, 
and is the major theme behind his latest book, Impossible Vacation.
He left home to try his luck with theater in Now York City, whoro 
he began to get a lot of roles after playing in a Thomas Paino play, 
and where he soon decided to go into underground theater. Ho got 
involved in various underground theater companies and began 
touring with them around America and the world. It was there ho 
was first able to do monologues, and it wasnt long before he broke 
off and began to do shows that were nothing but monologues of his 
own, the first of which was called Sex and Death to the Age 14. This 
would be the first of the monologues which made his personal style 
famous.
Gray mentioned that he doesnt actually keep up with much 
theatre thats going on nowadays. He said that he feels most stage 
actors today, with the exception of a few, like John Lithgow, act 
rather than be their parts, and that this sort of acting doesnt 
interest him at all. He attributes this loss of stage acting talent to 
the movie industry. He doesnt put down movie acting, he just puts 
it in a separate category from stage acting, saying the stage requires 
more projection but that the screen can be more personal. He 
believes most great actors today aim for the screen instead of the 
stage because there is more money and recognition in it.
After telling us this amazing story of his personal storytelling 
history, Gray opened the floor up to questions, which helped the 
audience feel an even closer affinity with him. Gray said his bottom 
line is sadness, and you definitely got a feeling for that by the end 
ofthe night; but he still, through all of it, managed to make me, and 
probably many others, laugh more than I had in a very long while. 
Its one ofthe many gifts hes been blessed with, I only wish he could 
share it more heartily with the rest of us.
Even though this may all sound a bit depressing, it wasnt. Gray 
managed to end on a positive note, and even ended up smiling once 
or twice before it was all over. He left me feeling happy but intensely 
aware of my own existence. Im glad to have been able to share an 
evening with such a wonderful person, and hope to see more from 
him in the future.
Mail Boxes Etc.I UPS Authorized Shipping Oullcl
Please ask about our * 
shipping, faxing, and * 
copying discount cards 
PACKING & SHIPPING SPECIALISTS
 UPS Dally 
1 Business Cards 
' Parcel Receiving 
1 Private Mail Box Rentals 
1 Photocopying
1 We Pack and Ship Computers
* DHL Next Day Shipping
* Key Duplicating
* Notary
* FAX Service 412-687-6136
* Instant Passport Photos
* Pick-Up Service
414 Craig St. 687-6100
(Conveniently located near Forbes Avenue and Carnegie Museum)
CPSFAXCOPIESSTAMPSPACKINGSUPPLIES
Monday, 1 Night is
at
Gappys
Stop in for the game and enjoy Special Prices on all of our
( wVi Imported BeerMP" * kHw WsygrG Ctq9 CUsSoLteye 6MwTww00

---------------------------------------------------

/M
UN I VERS Il/TENf)
Films
Admission to all DH2210 films is $1 for 
students with ID; $2 otherwise.
Night on Earth plays in DH 2210 on 
Thursday at 6, 8:30, and 11 pm.
Raising Cain shows in DH 2210 on 
Friday at 6, 8,10, and midnight.
A League of Their Own plays in DH 
2210 on Saturday at 5:15, 7:30,10 pm, 
and 12:15 am.
Ziggy Stardust plays in DH 2210 on 
Sunday. Show times are 6, 8,10, and 
midnight.
Join Spirit in seeing Spike Lees 
Malcolm X on Saturday. Van transpor
tation guaranteed for Spirit members. 
$1 transportation fee for non-Spirit 
members. Van leaves at 3 pm. Matinee 
show. Call x4381 for details.
Amnesty International presents A 
Thin Blue Line in the Morewood TV 
Room on Thursday at 8:30 pm. Contact 
Burt Holzman at x4729 for more infor
mation about AI.
7^ O 3^
f  I C? A Y , $ATL)f^PAY5  N V A 1
 t 6 H T -O'  U O O P M
hi
T H 6-
TN
Theater
eOrnGavo OP CeOGeU g8 COSs
Written by William Finn, Scotch n' Sodas production of March of the Falsettos is directed by sophomore drama major 
Kellelgh Greenburg. Senior computer science major Michael Walker stars as Marvin, a man who struggles to refashion his 
life to include his wife and child and his gay lover.
The AEPi Third Annual Wing-AThon will be held on Wednesday in the 
Ballroom. Come and show your sup
port for your favorite student organiza
tions. All proceeds go to the Juvenile 
Diabetes Foundation. For more infor
mation, call Burt Holzman at x4729.
Spirit organization will be having its 
last meeting of the semester. Buffalo 
wings, fries, and cake will be served. 
Topic: STRESS. Meeting begins at 6:55 
pm in Smith Hall 220 (CMAP).
The 1993 Beaux Arts Ball. The
Hewlett Gallery is looking for memora
bilia, including photographs, drawings, 
costumes, and videotapes from past 
Balls. Please contact Petra Fallaux, 
Director, at x3877.
Foreign language tables sponsored 
by the Modern Language Program will 
be held each weok of the fall semester. 
Mondays: Hebrew Language Table 
(sponsored by Iiillol) 11:30-1:00 in 
Morewood Cafeteria; Bentoo Lunch o 
nihongo de (Japanese Brown Bag 
Lunch) at 12:00 in BH160. Tuesdays: 
Russkii Chas (Russian) 12:00-1:30 in 
Morewood Cafeteria. Wednesdays: La 
Table Francaise (French) 11:30-1:15 
in Morewood Cafeteria; La Mesa 
Espaiiola (Spanish) 11:30-1:00 in 
Morewood Cafeteria. Thursdays: 
Deutscher Stammtisch (German) 11:30- 
12:45 in Morewood Cafeteria.
The Schenley Park Ice Skating 
Rink is now open. Admission is $3; 
skate rental is $1.50. College ID Night 
is every Tuesday evening from 9:30 
11:30 pm, and admission is $1.50. For 
more details call 422-6523.
Are you a vegetarian or interested 
in learning more about vegetari
anism? CMU Vegetarians has a vari
ety of informative literature and cook
books available on reserve in Hunt Li
brary.
Carnegie Mellon Action Project 
(CMAP) is looking to hire tutors for the 
following classes: 06-151 Thermody
namics, 06-201 Transport II, 09-245 
Physical Chemistry, 15-123 Intro to 
Programming & Applications (H&SS), 
18-133 Intro to Digital Systems, 24-101 
Intro to Mechanical Engineering, 24- 
121 Thermodynamics 1,24-141 Statics 
and Dynamics, 73-100 Principles of 
Economics, 79-104 Intro to World His
tory, 85-100 Cognitive Process, and 88- 
103 Decision Making. CMAP tutoring 
takes place Sunday through Thursday 
from 6-9 pm in 220 Smith Hall. Call 
x2150 for more information.
The Career Center Library is open 
Mondays and Thursdays from 5 pm to 
7 pm, in addition to regular weekday 
office hours.
The Womens Center Collective
holds meetings every Tuesday at 4:30 
pm in the CMU Womens Center. Con
tact Shel Strictland at x3595 for infor
mation.
The Carnegie Mellon Railroad Club
holds it meetings Tuesdays at 5 pm in 
the Tartan loft. For more information, 
email db74 or jt3y.
Student Senate meetings are every 
Tuesday in the Wherrett Room at 7 pm. 
All members of the campus community 
are welcome to attend and speak dur
ing audience participation.
The CMU Lesbian/Bisexual 
Womens Discussion Group meets 
Tuesdays at 7:30 pm in the CMU 
Womens Center. Questioning? Posi
tively sure? Come to the discussion 
group for friendly talk and fun.
The Christian Science Organiza
tion at CMU meets every Tuesday at 8 
pm in Skibo 13. If you are a Christian 
Scientist, or are interested in learning 
more about Christian Science, please 
stop by and find out what were all 
about.
CMU Shrin-Ryu Karate Club meets 
Tuesdays at 8:30 pm and Sundays at 4 
pm in Activity Room B of the CMU 
Gymnasium. Learn traditional 
Okinawan Karate. Beginners are wel
come.
Student Dormitory Council (SDC) 
holds meetings every Wednesday at 7 
pm in the Wherrett Room. For more 
information, call x2114.
National Society of Black Engi
neers general body meetings will be 
held every other Wednesday evening at 
the CMAP complex. For more informa
tion, call Rick Gilmore at x4804.
AIME meets on Thursdays at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo 12. AIME is a good way to have 
fun while getting involved in business 
activities at CMU. We offer BOC and 
opportunities for business contacts. All 
majors are welcome. Questions? Call 
Aurora at x8310.
Religion
The Rite of Christian Initiation of 
Adults is held on Mondays at 7:30 pm 
at The Oratory, 4040 Bigelow Blvd. 
Anyone wishing to inquire into the 
Roman Catholic faith is welcome to 
attend. For more information, contact 
Bernadette Young at 681-3181.
New Hope Christian Community 
Church invites all students to join 
other young adults in contemporary, 
casual, and uplifting services on Sun
days at 11 am in the Central Christian 
Church located at the comer of Fifth 
and Dithridge (134 N. Dithridge). For 
more information, call 621-6760.
The Church oftheAscension (Epis
copal) welcomes all students to join 
those who worship, serve, and fellow
ship there. It holds services on Sundays 
with a Eucharist at 8:30 am, a college 
class at 9:30 am, and morning worship 
at 11:30 am in the chapel located on the 
corner of Ellsworth and Neville in Oak
land. A Eucharist is also held on 
Wednesdays at 7 am. For more infor
mation, contact campus minister Hank 
Suhrat 621-4361.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church
holds worship service Sundays at 11 
am preceeded by a college class at 9:45 
am. Shadyside College Fellowship is 
held on Fridays at 6:30 pm. For infor
mation, contact Dan Moss or Annette 
Ediger at 682-4300.
Culture
Shabbat Candlelit Dinner is held at 
the Chabad House on Friday evenings 
at sundown and on Saturdays at 2 pm. 
Contact Sara Weinstein at 683-7770 
for more information.
Shabbat at Hillel is held every Friday 
with a happy half hour (hors doeuvres) 
at 5:30 pm, services at 6 pm, and dinner 
following. RSVP by calling 621-8875.
The Roman Catholic Oratory and 
Tech House invite all students to a 
Bible Study at Tech House every Tues
day from 5-6 pm. Call x4391 for details.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass daily on campus at 
12:30 pm in Skibo 39, Monday through 
Friday. Weekend masses are celebrated 
at 7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday 
in the GSIAmain auditorium. For more 
information, call The Oratory at 681- 
3181.
8 pm. Admission is $5. Call 733-4343 
for reservations.
Chabad House on Campus presents 
Falafel Night Tuesday at 5:30 pm in 
Skibo 201. Cost is $3. Call Sara 
Weinstein at 683-7770 for information.
CMU Department of Psychology
presents Vicki Helgeson of CMU, who 
will speak on The Adaptiveness of Per
ceived Control in Chronic Illness, as 
part of the Colloquium Series Tuesday 
at noon in BH 355.
The Carnegie presents Sokari Dou
glas Camp Wednesday at 6 pm in the 
Museum of Art Theater. Admission is 
$2 for students. Call 622-3212 for infor
mation.
Nicholas Nickleby (Parts I & II), per. 
formed by the CMU Department of 
Drama, opens at the Kresge Theatre on 
Saturday and runs through December 
12. For ticket information, call x2407.
.Scotch n Soda present s March of the 
Falsettos at 8 pm Friday, Saturday 
and Sunday in the Wherrett Room. 
Free admission. Call x3522 for details.
City Theatre Company, Inc. on the
South Side opens Holiday Memories 
Friday at 8 pm. Call 431-4900 for more 
information.
Point Park College Theatre Company presents On The Verge through 
Sunday at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. 
Tickets are $7. Call 621-4445 for tick
ets and information.
The University of Pittsburgh De
partment of Theatre Arts presents 
Mad Forest Wednesday and Friday and 
The Rover Tuesday, Thursday, Satur
day, and Sunday. Shows are at 8 pm 
Tuesday through Saturday and 2 pm 
Sunday. Tickets are $8. Call 624-PLAY 
for information.
Sports
CMU Department of Music presents 
Johann Strauss Die Fledermaus Sat
urday and Sunday at 8 pm in the 
Antonian Theatre at Carlow College. 
Tickets are $8. Call x2383 for reserva
tions.
Saint Paul Cathedral presents Craig 
Cramer Friday at 8 pm. Cramer is a 
professor of music and the university 
organist at the University of Notre 
Dame. He will perform on the famous 
Beckerath Organ as part of the Cathe
dral Organ Series. Admission is free 
and open to the public. Call James 
Noakes at 621-4951 for more informa
tion.
James Earl Jones recites poetry for 
the International Poetry Forum at 8 
pm Sunday at Trinity Cathedral, joined 
by The Dusquesne University Cham
ber Singers, Duquesne University Con
cert Choir, Trinity Cathedral Choir, 
and the DuqueBne Brass Ensemble, 
and organists Fred Schell and Don 
Megahan. General admission is $22. 
Call 621-9893 for more information.
For more information on all sports 
events, call Bruce Gerson, the Sports 
Information Director, at x3087.
The Cross Country teams compete
in the NCAA Championships at Union 
College Saturday. Times to be an
nounced.
The Womens Basketball team com
petes at the Susquehanna University 
Tournament this weekend at 1 and 3 
pm.
The Mens Basketball team hosts the 
West Penn Classic Friday. Allegheny 
vs. Washington & Jefferson at 6 pm 
and CMU vs. Grove City at 8 pm. Sat
urday, the competition continues at 
Grove City College. CMU vs. Washington&Jefferson and Allegheny vs. Grove 
City at 8 pm.
The hockey club hosts West Virginia 
University at Golden Mile at 6 pm on 
Saturday.
Migrations of Meaning, an exhibit 
which explores the interaction among 
African, Indian, and European tradi
tion and the contemporary art of the 
Americas and the Caribbean, will be 
displayed at the National Gallery at 
the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
through December 27. For more infor
mation, call 361-0873.
Renee Stout, a native Pittsburgher 
who works autobiographically, ac
knowledging and celebrating her Afri
can-American ancestry, will be at the 
Special Project Gallery at the Pitts
burgh Center for the Arts through De
cember 27. For details, call 361-0873.
Community College of Allegheny 
County Boyce Campus Department of 
Theatre and Dance presents an evening 
of Modem Dance with Kevin Maloney 
and Dancers and the Pennsylvania 
Dance Theatre Friday and Saturday at
Lesson #3: How to keep a big friend 
busy.
A) Put some white stuff on his bed.
B) Let him brown-nose (I mean, paint) 
at his teachers house.
C) Give him lots of mail to read.
Lesson #4: Go ahead, insult her all you 
want.
She wouldn't know a clue if it hit her in 
the tit.
To the cute TX with the blue hat:
I want you!
Whatta ya say??? 
lustfully yours, 
an aroused admirer
Shift the gut, my coolers sliding.
Cheeseballs naturally crave jellyrolls, 
yet they always inevitably reilly. 
(enough said?!)
The Techno Terrorists suck!
Cant you guys play one damn request, 
or are you too busy making love to 
the beat of Speed Racer"?
WRCT  Where Requests Come
Through
NOT!!!!!!!!
W, M sought by CMU drama for rigor
ous, demanding instruction and dan
gerous situationstrial period only. 
No fats, no fems. Straight acting a 
must  everyone can know it as long 
as you dont show it. Include photo & 
phone with application.
Don,
22 years old on 17 Nov! Wow
Graduation! Wow
Real World  Holy Shit!
But have a happy Birthday anyway! 
Love and Thankx 
Alina and Erik
La poufiasse 
Cathy may be drunk, but she can still 
conjugate verbs like nobodys busi
ness! Nice subjunctive, baby!
La Pprtouzarde
Hey Guys!  Beware!!
Sarah's Back!
 and you thought I didnt have the 
balls  hah!
Carla
Hey Andrea,
Are you sitting on your hands? 
Carla
