SPORTSPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
thetartan.org
@thetartan
October 13, 2014
Volume 109, Issue 8
Mens and womens soccer continue UAA play  A12Memphis Hill releases Backwards Beginnings  B8
SCITECH
Researchers develop robotic sidewinder snakes  A5
CUC expansion of?cially breaks ground
LAURA SCHERB
Operations Manager 
On Thursday, a modest ceremony marked a big occasion 
for the university: the of?cial 
groundbreaking celebration 
of the Jared L. Cohon University Center (CUC) expansion.
The expansion has already 
begun with construction on 
the campus parking garage, 
and is estimated to take approximately two years. The 
completed project will add 
62,000 square feet to the 
building, according to the 
Campus Design and Facility 
Developments Cohon Center 
Addition page.
The ceremony celebrated 
the efforts of a large group 
of people in making the project a reality, and the of?cial 
groundbreaking of the construction. To that end, senior 
biological sciences major and 
Student Body Vice President 
Shalini Ray, Vice President for 
Student Affairs Michael Murphy, and Pittsburgh City Councilman and Carnegie Mellon 
alumnus Dan Gilman (DC 04) 
spoke. Student groups Raasta, 
SoulStylz, and ScotchnSoda 
performed as well.
After the speeches and performances, the Of?ce of Student Activities gave students 
and faculty an opportunity to 
spray paint a portion of the 
CUC turnaround to commemorate the years that it has 
served as a Carnegie Mellon 
landmark.
Im very excited about the 
whole impact that [the expansion] will have on the student 
experience, Gina Casalegno, 
dean of student affairs, said. 
Casalegno spray painted My 
heart is in the CUC  expansion on the pavement.
The expansion of the CUC, 
which was built 18 years ago, 
marks the symbolic expansion 
of what Murphy called the 
meta-curricular life of Carnegie Mellon students.
Ten years ago, we saw an 
explosion of student on-campus involvement. Students use 
the CUC to recreate, to work 
out, to meet with each other 
and with faculty, and to communicate their student experience. This expansion is the opportunity to enhance what we 
already have, Murphy said in 
his speech. A healthy and socially engaged campus.
According to Murphy, the 
expansion is a result of the 
vision that President Emeritus Jared Cohon and current 
President Subra Suresh have 
for the student experience, as 
well as part of an effort to give 
the Forbes Avenue corridor a 
front door.
This is a project that 
ties very nicely into our new 
Forbes corridor. It really paints 
CMU as a place for innovation, 
a place for everything that 
CMU is truly about, Murphy 
said. Its really exciting, and 
the context is so important for 
this project.
Gilman, who spoke following Murphy, said that the 
project was exciting and important to him not only as a 
former student, but also as a 
representative of the district.
[Carnegie Mellon] is embracing Forbes Avenue; were 
giving a new face to the future 
of Forbes, which will add de?-
nition to campus. This building is a huge part of that, 
Gilman said. I am fortunate 
to represent a district that encompasses a booming center 
of growth.
According to Director of 
Student Activities Elizabeth 
Vaughan, the expansion of the 
CUC is going to radically impact campus life through the 
massive increase in athletic 
and recreational space, a studio theater, and a new lobby 
space that will serve to welcome visitors to the university.
In planning this building, 
we leveraged every possible 
space in the building to be 
able to accommodate every 
type of activity. We thought really strategically about how to 
maximize every space. Theres 
too much happening on this 
campus to let any space just sit 
unused, Vaughan said.
According to Vaughan, the 
construction on the building 
is slated to take approximately 
18 months, which would put 
the opening ceremony someHerbert lectures on education reform
CHRIS GALVIN
Staffwriter
On Thursday, public education volunteer organization Yinzercation hosted the 
national launch of The New 
York Times columnist Bob 
Herberts new book, Losing 
Our Way: An Intimate Portrait of a Troubled America, in 
McConomy Auditorium.
Yinzercation describes 
itself on its website as part 
of the grassroots education 
justice movement committed 
to students, equity, and the 
preservation of public education as a civil right and a 
public good. The group also 
hosts a multitude of events to 
promote their cause, including rallies, demonstrations, 
and lectures.
Reverend Richard Freeman of the Resurrection 
Baptist Church in Braddock 
kicked off the event with a 
speech about the importance 
of public education.
We are at a crossroads, 
Freeman said. And we believe that the way through 
the crossroads begins with 
quality education. It begins 
by giving our children hope.
Jessie Ramey, a member 
of the Yinzercation Steering 
Committee, followed with a 
description of Yinzercation 
and its purpose.
We joined the education justice movement back 
in 2011 when Governor Corbett took of?ce and promptly 
cut about a billion dollars 
from public education, Ramey said. These cuts have 
disproportionately affected 
our poorest students and our 
communities of color. So our 
schools and kids who already 
had the least, now get the 
least.
Kathy Newman, associate professor of English at 
Carnegie Mellon and another Yinzercation Steering 
Committee member, then 
introduced Herbert and Tony 
Norman, a columnist, associate editor, and book review 
editor for the Pittsburgh PostGazette. Norman moderated 
a conversation with Herbert 
about his book, public education, and social justice 
movements.
Much of the discussion revolved around the Yinzercation movement.
There were two major 
things that I saw [in Pittsburgh], Herbert said. One 
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Students got the opportunity on Thursday to spraypaint their mark on the CUC Turnaround, which will be closed as part of an 18-month expansion. 
SCS celebrates 25th anniversary
MARIE BREMNER
Junior Staffwriter
In this age of Big Data, digital technologies, and social 
networking sites, companies 
are grappling with consumer 
privacy. According to Carnegie Mellon alumnus and Site 
Director of Facebooks New 
York of?ce Serkan Piantino 
(SCS 04), who spoke as part 
of the School of Computer Sciences (SCS) 25th anniversary 
celebrations, computer scientists must take the lead in 
making policies and creating 
technologies that deal with 
these privacy issues.
We have to have a conversation. Technology has 
created so much potential for 
data interaction, and with 
that comes great potential 
for risks. We, the engineers, 
need to have a sophisticated 
dialogue about having a good, 
nuanced, ethical understanding of how we want our data 
represented and shared, Piantino, who oversees Facebooks engineering of?ce in 
Manhattan, said.
When you are learning 
software engineering, you 
have to be learning about 
policy implications; there 
is no such thing as a pure 
See EXPANSION, A4
Acrobatiq a ?nalist for $20 million prize
CHELSEA DICKSON
Junior Staffwriter
Acrobatiq, a Carnegie Mellon-af?liated online courseware company, has recently 
been named a ?nalist in the 
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundations Next Generation 
Courseware Challenge. Tracing its origins to Carnegie 
Mellons Open Learning Initiative (OLI), Acrobatiq was 
founded in 2013 and provides 
individualized online learning experiences for students 
tackling introductory university courses. The Bill and 
Melinda Gates Foundation 
launched the Courseware 
Challenge to support sciencebased learning initiatives that 
aim to help disadvantaged 
college students with general 
education classes.
The Bill and Melinda 
Gates Foundation focuses on 
improving all Americans opportunities for success both 
in the classroom and in life. 
The Foundation began supporting online education 
programs in 2008, prompted 
by the increasing amount of 
research showing the impressive improvements made by 
students who supplemented 
their undergraduate courses 
with online learning experiences. Since 2008, it has 
invested more than $60 million in online courseware, according to its website.
The Next Generation 
Courseware Challenge is 
the Foundations effort to 
bring this learning technology to under-performing 
and disadvantaged college 
students. Seventeen ?nalists, 
including Acrobatiq, are currently beginning to receive 
portions of the $20 million 
prize. The actual winner 
will be announced later this 
year and will work with the 
Foundation for three years to 
strengthen its product.
Acrobatiq is a subsidiary 
of Carnegie Mellons Open 
Learning Initiative, which 
was established in 2001. The 
OLI combines the Universitys strength in cognitive 
tutoring, human-computer 
interaction, and data-driven 
sciences to create online 
courses. OLI courses are used 
by teachers and students nationwide and internationally. 
Its strength stems from its 
ability to constantly evaluate, 
adapt, and improve the design of courses for more successful learning experiences, 
according to the OLI website.
Based in Pittsburghs 
South Side neighborhood 
and New York City, Acrobatiq 
is building on OLIs legacy. 
Acrobatiq, a for-pro?t company, develops new adaptive 
online courses using OLI, 
Carnegie Mellon, and the 
educational worlds research. 
Students must self-monitor 
their learning progress in 
Acrobatiqs courses and apply what they are learning to 
real-world situations. 
Courses are designed to 
supplement undergraduate 
level classes. As of now, many 
of the courses available are 
mathand science-oriented. 
Acrobatiq chief executive 
of?cer Eric Frank, speaking 
about the courses, reported 
that the company will be 
offering 25 new courses, 
including many in the humanities and business, by the 
summer.
Frank also said course 
design does not widely differ between science and humanities classes. In fact, he 
said, learning research has 
proved that the process of 
learning is consistent across 
subjects, languages, and 
cultures. He explained that 
the learn by doing method 
is what leads most students 
to success, hence the effectiveness of these online 
courses.
It seems like we live in 
this moment where the Internet is this incredible medium 
to access to education. Whats 
been missing is quality. How 
do you ensure that a student 
is able to learn as much or 
more? There has to be robust 
learning, said Frank.
Of course, many people are wary about online 
courseworks effect on higher 
education institutions. Frank 
See COMPANY, A3
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Serkan Piantino (SCS 04) had a conversation with Dean of the School of Computer Science Andrew W. Moore as part of a celebration of the schools 
25th anniversary. Moore and Piantino spoke in Rashid Auditorium on Friday about the future of computer science. 
See CELEBRATION, A4See EDUCATION, A3

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  October 13, 2014
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, 
please email The Tartan at news@thetartan.org or 
editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, as well as the 
date of the issue and the name of the article. We will 
print the correction or clari?cation in the next print 
issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFStudents sign beam, indulge in chili
WEATHER
Student on LSD
Oct. 4, 2014
University Police, along 
with CMU EMS and city medics, responded to a report 
from the Residence on Fifth 
of a student on LSD. The student was provided appropriate medical attention and 
admitted to ingesting an unknown drug at a party near 
the Bob OConnor Golf Course 
at Schenley Park. University 
Police and Pittsburgh Police 
were involved in investigating 
this incident.
Alcohol amnesty
Oct. 6, 2014
University Police and CMU 
EMS were summoned to the 
Mudge House turnaround 
by a call for alcohol amnesty. 
CMU EMS provided medical attention, and no charges 
were ?led.
University Police and CMU 
EMS also responded to Fairfax 
Apartments for alcohol amnesty. Again, no charges were 
?led.
Suspicious vehicle
Oct. 8, 2014
University Police and Pittsburgh Police responded to a 
call from Beeler Street about 
a suspicious vehicle. Police 
received two calls for related 
incidents. A Carnegie Mellon 
student told the police that he 
was walking on Beeler Street 
when a black sedan pulled up 
next to him and shined a light 
on him, at which point the 
student began to run, and the 
vehicle pulled into a driveway. 
A moment later, the vehicle 
drove away toward Wilkins 
Avenue. Another student reported a similar experience. 
These incidences are being 
investigated by both University Police and the Pittsburgh 
Police Department.
DUI arrest 
Oct. 8, 2014
A University Police sergeant on patrol saw a vehicle 
driving over the center line 
on Morewood Avenue, and 
con?rmed that the driver was 
intoxicated when the sergeant 
stopped the vehicle. The driver was arrested for driving under the in?uence of alcohol.
Theft from a vehicle 
Oct. 9, 2014
University Police took a report for theft from a vehicle 
parked on Devon Road. The 
perpetrator broke the side 
window of the vehicle and 
took several personal items. 
There have been multiple similar thefts around the Carnegie Mellon campus recently. 
Both University Police and 
the Pittsburgh Police Department are investigating these 
incidents.
Attempted scam 
Oct. 9, 2014
University Police were contacted by two students about 
a black, middle-aged woman 
who pulls up next to students 
on the street and asks for gas 
money to get to the airport or 
hospital. These scams were 
also reported last year; students are urged not to provide the woman with money 
or personal information and 
contact the police if she makes 
contact.
Identity theft 
Oct. 10, 2014
University Police are investigating an incident in which 
an unidenti?ed woman tried 
to use a Carnegie Mellon ID 
card to check out an iPad from 
Hunt Library. University Police are investigating this incident with the help of video 
surveillance.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
The Carnegie Clan hosted its annual Chili Cookoff as part of the Cilidh Weekend homecoming celebrations. At the cookoff, students tasted the 
entrants chili with cornbread and received commemorative Chili Cookoff mugs.  
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Much of the universitys 
brain research began 20 
years ago, when the Richard 
King Mellon Foundation gave 
a $12 million gift to launch 
the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition (CNBC), a 
research center built on collaboration between Carnegie 
Mellon and the University of 
Pittsburgh that focuses on 
neuroscience. More recently, 
Carnegie Mellon announced 
its BrainHub initiative in support of the federal BRAIN 
initiative for neuroscience 
research.
The CNBC will celebrate 
its 20th anniversary this 
weekend, Oct. 1718.
To have two universities 
across the street from each 
other, and to have them decide to collaborate rather 
than compete, is very special, said Peter L. Strick, 
Pitt co-director of the CNBC, 
distinguished professor, and 
chair of the department of 
neurobiology at Pitt, in a university press release. The 
CNBC has an open architecture that allows interactions between scientists and 
colleagues  regardless of 
their home institution. Students can seamlessly move 
between Pitt and CMU labs 
and draw on the expertise of 
faculty at both institutions. 
This cross-disciplinary and 
cross-university atmosphere 
has allowed the CNBC  and 
therefore CMU and Pitt  to 
recruit and keep scientists 
and researchers and attract 
the brightest students.
The CNBC is a joint effort 
between the neighboring 
universities that combines 
the University of Pittsburghs 
strengths in bioengineering, 
math, psychology, and neuroscience with Carnegie Mellons strengths in psychology, 
computer science, biology, 
and statistics. 
Researchers for the CNBC 
investigate the mechanisms 
behind human cognition; 
the CNBC also includes an 
interdisciplinary graduate 
and postdoctoral training 
program.
The 20th anniversary celebration will include several 
keynote and alumni speakers, 
an art exhibit, and the presentation of the ?rst Friend 
of the CNBC Award.
CNBC celebrates 20th year of research
Philosophy department partners with Pitt
The National Institutes of 
Health (NIH) recently gave 
an $11 million grant to create the Center for Causal 
Modeling and Discovery, a 
joint effort between Carnegie Mellons department of 
philosophy and the University of Pittsburgh.
The new center will foster 
collaboration between Carnegie Mellon philosophy faculty and a team of researchers that draws from the 
Pittsburgh Supercomputing 
Center, Yale University, Rutgers University, and other 
collaborators. The researchers will focus on developing 
tools that can ?nd causal 
links in large and complex 
pools of biomedical data.
Gregory Cooper, professor and vice chair of the 
department of biomedical 
informatics at the University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine and director of the 
new Center for Causal Modeling and Discovery, said in a 
university press release that 
while much of science focuses on ?nding the how or 
why, now the challenge is 
to ?nd these answers among 
big data  corpuses of 
terabytes or petabytes of 
data.
Ex of?cio Report
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
64 / 49
SATURDAY
High / Low
60 / 42
SUNDAY
High / Low
54 / 38
TUESDAY
High / Low
82 / 64
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
66 / 53
THURSDAY
High / Low
65/ 53
Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Jess Klein, coordinator of 
gender studies and sexual violence prevention, discussed 
rape prevention and sexual 
assault on college campuses in 
her ex of?cio report.
Carnegie Mellons recent 
efforts to address this issue 
began about a year ago. Klein 
discussed many measures for 
preventing sexual assault, including primary prevention 
through education and bystander training, secondary 
prevention strategies such as 
having a buddy system and 
covering your drink at parties, 
as well as other tips such as not 
walking alone at night. Klein 
also detailed the purpose of the 
Jeanne Clery Act, speci?cally 
with respect to con?dentiality 
and how Carnegie Mellon is 
legally required to report and 
investigate all reports of sexual 
violence.
On-campus resources, including the new Decisions that 
Matter pamphlet and the Title 
IX reporting process, were also 
mentioned. Klein concluded 
her report by mentioning the 
dif?cult nature of gathering 
statistics on instances of sexual 
violence and the focus sessions 
that were hosted on campus by 
the Department of Educations 
Of?ce for Civil Rights recently.
A ?rst draft of a ?scal policy 
change was completed and is 
now being reviewed by multiple student governing bodies to ensure that its wording 
is consistent. Additionally, 
$4,000 was reinstated to be 
available to Senate for internal 
projects.
A ?nance allocation to AB 
Tech was also granted for new 
equipment, as some equipment for events could not be 
used due to the building constraints of the Jared L. Cohon 
University Center. It was noted 
that the Activities Board serves 
many organizations, and that 
there are currently many senior members who can teach 
newer students how to use the 
new tools.
Finance committee update, special allocation
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Ryan Oh/Staff Photographer
Last week, students got the chance to sign a beam that will become part of the Sherman and Joyce Bowie Scott Hall. 

---------------------------------------------------

October 13, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
Benjamin Brittens 
The Beggars Opera 
 Philip Walsh, conductor 
 Dan Rigazzi, stage director
Your seat is waiting.
OCT2225
2014
music.cmu.edu
CMU ID
WITH
$5$10 Tickets
or 412.268.2407
Yinzercation hosts New York Times Bob Herbert
Kevin Zheng/Junior Photographer
Left: Bob Herbert, a columnist for The New York Times, spoke about his new book, Losing Our Way: An Intimate Portrait of a Troubled America, on Thursday in McConomy Auditorium. 
Right: Herbert talked to Reverend Richard Freeman of the Resurrection Baptist Church in Braddock. 
was what I thought was an 
obscene attack on public education ... but then on the other 
hand, I saw this extraordinary 
civil engagement, this movement of ordinary people who 
are ?ghting back and saying 
that this is intolerable.
Herbert talked about how 
the themes of his book tie into 
Pittsburghs public education 
movement.
[In my book] I wanted to 
show how in so many ways 
weve lost our way in this country, how much trouble were 
in, Herbet said. I thought 
that the mainstream politicians and the mainstream media had not really given a true 
picture of how dif?cult our circumstances were. On the other 
hand, I wanted to say that its 
not hopeless, that people can 
?ght back. In Pittsburgh, I saw 
people ?ghting back, and ?ghting back effectively.
Norman and Herbert 
also discussed the aspects 
of a successful social justice 
movement.
Its important to ?rst 
become civically engaged, 
whatever the issue is But 
its also important that you 
organize, Herbert said. The 
most dif?cult thing of all is to 
sustain it. It has to be a sustained effort.
When the discussion was 
opened to questions from the 
audience, the conversation 
broadened into a discussion of 
progressive politics, economic 
problems, and social issues as 
a whole.
Some members of the audience, such as Pittsburgh 
residents Paul and Karen Beer, 
felt the discussion had gotten 
off track.
It was a little all over the 
place; it was a little disappointing, Karen Beer said.
[The discussion] just 
wasnt very substantive. It was 
riddled with political platitudes, Paul Beer said. It was 
speaking very abstractly about 
problems, and unfortunately 
I felt like I was at a political 
rally.
Others left feeling dejected, despite Herberts intended 
message of hope.
I feel kind of desperate
what are we going to do? said 
Osher Lifelong Learning Institute member Florence Chapman. Working on the grassroots organizing is dif?cult. 
Weve been working on that 
for a long time.
Acrobatiq ?nalist in challenge
believes that companies like 
Acrobatiq will aid, and not 
undermine, teaching and 
learning at universities and 
colleges.
I think theres a fear of 
machine learning, because 
I think thats a code word 
for replace faculty, and I 
think that when teachers 
see what were doing, they 
see that its an opportunity to help them do what 
theyre doing better, he 
said. For Frank, including 
online courseware in college classes enables more 
effective instruction in the 
classroom. He said that 
while students are building their foundational 
knowledge with online 
classes, precious in-class 
time could be used more 
advantageously.
Acrobatiq and similar 
companies aim to provide a 
supportive opportunity for 
a better standard of learning for both disadvantaged 
and privileged students.
The Last Witch Hunter ?lms in Pittsburgh locations
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
Just around the corner from 
the Mellon Institute, recognizable from its role as Gotham 
City Hall in The Dark Knight 
Rises, trailers lined both sides 
of a blocked off Forbes Avenue 
Extension, as well as a lane of 
traf?c on Forbes Avenue as caterers, riggers, and actors hurried around. The Carnegie Music Hall was standing in for an 
elegant opera house or theatre 
in New York City for The Last 
Witch Hunter, a supernatural 
action thriller from Lionsgate 
Studios with an all-star cast 
and a mainly local ?lm crew.
Vin Diesel, a veteran of the 
Riddick science ?ction action 
franchise, will star as the titular 
last witch hunter. Diesel will be 
starring alongside Elijah Wood, 
who portrayed Frodo Baggins 
in The Lord of the Rings trilogy; Rose Leslie, best known 
for her television role as Ygritte 
on Game of Thrones; and Sir 
Michael Caine. Breck Eisner, 
the director of The Crazies and 
Sahara, has the helm on The 
Last Witch Hunter. Vin Diesel is 
also one of the producers of the 
?lm, alongside Mark Canton 
and Bernard Goldmann.
According to Amanda 
Brand, the unit publicist for the 
movie, a number of locations 
around Pittsburgh will be used 
as stand-ins for New York City. 
Brand cited initiatives and tax 
credits offered by the city for 
the choice of ?lming, in addition to the quality ?lm crew in 
the city. Brand has previously 
worked on I Am Number Four 
and Super 8 with Pittsburgh 
?lm crews, even though Super 
8 was shot in West Virginia. 
Brand described working 
here with the crews as a great 
experience.
BRIAN TRIMBOLI 
News Editor
We cannot give short 
shrift to the humanities and 
social sciences, retired Supreme Court Justice David 
Souter told a standing-room 
only McConomy Auditorium 
last Friday.
Souter delivered his lecture, The Heart of the Matter: The Humanities and Social Sciences for a Vibrant, 
Competitive, and Secure Nation, as part of the John and 
Mary Lou Lehoczky Lecture 
Series in the Humanities and 
Social Sciences. 
Souter was brought to 
Carnegie Mellon with the 
help of the universitys Center for International Relations 
and Politics (CIRP) and the 
American Academy of Arts & 
Sciences, an organization that 
supports humanities research 
and education in the U.S., accoding to its website. 
Souter was appointed to 
the Supreme Court in 1990 
by President George H. W. 
Bush after a career in the state 
courts of New Hampshire, 
and retired from the Supreme 
Court in 2009.
After University President 
Subra Suresh introduced 
him, Souter, a graduate of 
Harvard College and Harvard Law School, made a 
case to listeners that the U.S. 
should put greater stress on 
the humanities and social 
sciences as the foundation of 
education.
A lot of this is going to be 
obvious, Souter said about 
the points in his lecture. But I 
want the obvious to be on the 
table.
Souter opened his lecture 
with a story about William 
Howard Taft, the 27th president of the United States. Taft, 
Souter said, was able to think 
about problems in different 
ways  one of the main bene?ts that Souter said a liberal 
arts education provides.
Souter used a quote by 
poet John Donne as the ?rst 
piece of evidence in his lecture: No man is an island.
Souter pointed out how 
different experts in different 
?elds of the humanities  
from psychology to theology 
 would interpret the quote, 
saying that Your perspective is going to affect how 
much you look at the question, just as much as it affects 
how much you look at the 
answer.
Throughout his lecture, 
Souter stressed the importance of different perspectives. An education in the 
humanities, Souter said, gives 
people the ability to look at a 
question or problem from different angles, with different 
perspectives.
Julia Eddy, a junior decision science major, agreed 
with Souters emphasis on 
the humanities. I think it was 
really valuable. I used to not 
put a lot of value in the humanities, Eddy, who recently 
switched her major from electrical and computer engineering to decision science, said. 
Since I just switched my major from engineering to the 
humanities, the lecture really 
resonated with me.
Sophomore mathematics 
major Ryan LaPr had similar thoughts about Souters 
lecture. In general, I agree 
with Souter in that a vital 
part of the future of education 
should focus on the intersection of a social sciences-based 
creativity, as well as some 
application of technology, 
LaPr said. Especially at a 
school like CMU, where we 
promote this mindset in our 
curriculum and programs.
Souter closed his lecture 
by comparing the U.S. to China, which recently surpassed 
the U.S. as the worlds largest economy, according to the 
International Monetary Fund. 
China, Souter said, is laying a 
foundation in humanities for 
a future of smart economic 
decisions while the U.S. lags 
behind.
Justin McGown/Staff Photographer
Left: The crew for The Last Witch Hunter prepares for ?lming last week on Forbes Avenue. Right: Extras for the ?lm, which stars Vin Diesel, Elijah Wood, and Rose Leslie, sit on set.
Souter stresses humanities in U.S.
COMPANY, from A1
EDUCATION, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

Af? liated with the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, UPMC is ranked among the nations best hospitals by U.S. News & World Report.
EYEWEAR IN OCTOBER
UPMC Eye Center Optical Shops
Oakland-Forbes Ave.  412-647-PITT (7488) 
UPMC.com/Optical
Visit our four convenient locations
*Excludes Maui Jim and Oakley brands. Applies to prescription or non-prescription glasses and sunglasses.
HALF OFF*
Oakland-UPMC Presbyterian
412-647-2145
Uptown-UPMC Mercy
412-232-8520 
UPMC Childrens Pine Center
724-940-6160
UPMC.com/Optical
A4  thetartan.org/news  The Tartan  October 13, 2014
technology, added Andrew 
W. Moore, the dean of SCS, an 
expert in arti?cial intelligence 
and robotics, and a former executive at Google.
Piantino and Moore shared 
their visions for the future of 
the industry before a packed 
audience of students, alumni, and faculty members in 
Rashid Auditorium as part of 
a celebration of SCSs 25th anniversary on Friday.
Moore and Piantino also 
discussed how computers and 
mobile devices are changing 
our lifestyles. With smartphone apps completely infused 
into our lives and wearable 
devices becoming more and 
more prevalent, a lot of our 
industry is in this pause-mode, 
waiting to see how the iWatch 
does, Piantino said in reply to 
a question regarding the future 
of technological accessories.
This year, the School of 
Computer Science celebrates 
its 25th year as a stand-alone 
college within Carnegie Mellon University. The School of 
Computer Science is considered one of the worlds premier programs in the ?eld.
The story of this college 
goes back further, however: A 
decade or so after the emergence of the ?rst computer, 
Carnegie Mellons Department of Computer Science was 
formed in July 1965 by a group 
of visionary enthusiasts comprising Allen Newell, Herbert 
Simon, and Alan Perlis.
By the early 1960s, the university offered an interdisciplinary Ph.D. program called 
systems and communications 
sciences. Over the decades, 
the School of Computer Science has expanded and created new degree-granting 
departments such as the Human-Computer Interaction 
Institute and the Institute for 
Software Research. The Robotics Institute, also a division 
of the school, is the largest 
university robotics research 
group in the world.
In a separate panel discussion titled SCS25: The Next 
25 Years of Computer Science, led by Corporate Vice 
President and Head of Microsoft Research Peter Lee, the 
panelists included Severin 
Hacker (SCS 09, 14), Assistant Professor of computer 
science Emma Brunskill, and 
Assistant Professor of computer science Aarti Singh, who 
discussed their research and 
what trends they see evolving 
during the next 25 years.
From the beginning, the 
School of Computer Science 
has drawn on the expertise of 
psychologists, management 
specialists, mathematicians 
and electrical engineers, said 
Majd Sakr, founder and director of the Cloud Computing 
Lab at Carnegie Mellons Qatar campus.
Weve had a lot of diversity, 
and that is why we are uniquely 
positioned to be able to make 
an impact that will make a difference in the way technology is 
designed, Sakr said.
Whats coming next is 
human enhancement, said 
former School of Computer 
Science professor Nathaniel 
Borenstein (SCS 85), who 
helped design the MIME protocol for formatting multimedia Internet electronic mail.
Borenstein is working on 
creating digital eyeglasses 
that may someday assist people with colorblindness, as 
well as allow humans to see 
in infrared and ultra-violet 
spectrums. Borensteins work, 
he said, comes from his own 
imagination, adding that that 
sort of thinking is encouraged 
at Carnegie Mellon.
There is a real culture 
here [at Carnegie Mellon] 
that none of us is really satis?ed. We are constantly thinking about the future, and we 
think its fun to have this opportunity to change, as well as 
feeling a sense of earned responsibility for it. We really do 
need to debate amongst all of 
us how should those 25 years 
go, Moore said.
Piantino speaks at SCS celebration
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
Serkan Piantino (SCS 04), the site director of Facebooks New York of?ce, spoke on Friday about the future of the computer science industry. 
time next spring, if all goes 
according to plan.
How this project came to 
be is so unique and indicative 
of the partnership between 
student affairs and athletics, Vaughan said. Everyone working on this project 
is incredibly passionate about 
the student experience and 
wants the CUC to be the hub 
of on-campus life to address 
the needs that have existed 
for a very long time.
Vaughan, who spraypainted Tartan Pride on the 
turnaround, said she is most 
excited to see what the campus does with the space that 
it will be given.
After being here for 10 
years, Im consistently surprised by the ways that the 
students here dream and 
come up with creative ideas. 
How we are envisioning the 
space being used might turn 
out to be very different from 
how the students actually use 
it, because theyre constantly 
dreaming and coming up 
with totally different ideas, 
Vaughan said. Im sure that 
within a year, well see a 
great new event crop up as a 
result of the new space and 
the new opportunities that 
come with it.
Editors Note: Elizabeth 
Vaughan is faculty advisor to 
The Tartan.
CUC of?cially begins 18-month expansion
EXPANSION, from A1
CELEBRATION, from A1
Abhinav Gautam/Staff Photographer
The CUC expansion celebration on Thursday included a barbecue in 
the newly renovated Legacy Plaza.

---------------------------------------------------

October 13, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Sports Editor
ROB MACEDO
Special to the Tartan
At the last Pugwash meeting, we discussed whether or 
not the worlds climate change 
policies should tend toward 
mitigation or adaptation. By 
mitigation, we meant lessening the effects of climate 
change. By adaptation, we 
meant changing in anticipation of climate change.
Mitigation
During our discussion, we 
came up with some signi?cant 
reasons for mitigation-based 
measures. Perhaps the most 
signi?cant reason for prevention is that we do not know 
what the long-term effects of 
climate change will be. Thus, 
any adaptation attempts may 
prove to be woefully futile 
in preventing environmental destruction. For example, 
we may believe that a policy 
that encourages moving away 
from shorelines will provide 
safety for humanity, yet rising 
temperatures may destroy our 
capability to produce agriculture. Thus, we deal with one 
effect of climate change, but 
are doomed to face another 
that may be much harder to 
mitigate.
On the other hand, a substantial investment into curbing our carbon emissions may 
mitigate the effects of climate 
change. With prevention, we 
no longer have to use models 
with vast uncertainties to attempt to guess where mitigation will be necessary.
Prevention may be more 
costly upfront, but may lead 
to long-term vast economic 
gains when compared to adaptation. If we experience a 
run-away greenhouse effect, 
such as when melting glaciers 
lead to an increase of methane 
(a greenhouse gas) release, 
we may have to deal with an 
increasing rate of needed mitigation for however many years 
until we can reverse the effect. Such a situation could be 
catastrophic and is very likely 
more economically tolling 
than an upfront investment in 
cleaner energy.
Due to the long-term payoff of preventative measures, 
we decided at Pugwash that it 
was unlikely that the private 
sector could be responsible for 
implementation. On the other 
hand, one Pugwash member 
did point out how large companies, such as Google, have 
an image to present to the 
public and may make green 
business moves in order to foster an environmentally conscious reputation. Countering 
this point, another member 
mentioned how companies as 
ubiquitous as Google do not 
have to foster such a reputation, because their product is 
so vital we will use it regardless. Preventative measures 
may be costly, but they will 
grant our species peace of 
mind regarding our survival.
Adaptation
Other Pugwash members 
argued that, when faced with 
climate change, it might be 
impossible to pass policies 
in time to make a difference. 
There was disagreement on 
what would be an effective 
strategy. Some people advocated direct regulation of carbon dioxide emissions. Some 
argued for less direct intervention in this case. Regulations 
could prove hard to pass and 
could lead to energy shortages as the market scrambles 
to ?nd new, effective sources 
of energy. Even market solutions like carbon taxes would 
be met with resistance from 
producers. These policies also 
dont cover all that contribute 
to greenhouse emissions. Expanding these policies to other 
products would make the political battle even longer. As 
time goes on, we might reach 
a point where even a successful series of laws to protect the 
environment has no real effect. There are more frequent 
natural disasters in places unable to deal with them now. 
Members said there needs to 
be a faster solution.
Further, there are more 
issues than climate change. 
In the United States speci?-
cally, much of the physical 
infrastructure is outdated and 
would fail easily. The power 
grid is a good example. The 
Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission (FERC) reported 
that only nine substations 
have to fail to cause a national 
blackout. Our infrastructure 
needs rebuilding already, so 
why not build it resilient to 
climate change? If the project 
solves other problems, it will 
face far less political resistance. In America, the infrastructure can be made more 
reliable while also providing 
a more lasting defense against 
climate change that could help 
sooner.
Adaptation to climate 
change can also reach international levels. Regions that 
contribute little to climate 
change still suffer its effects. 
They arent culpable for this, 
and some regions just do not 
have the assets to rebuild 
from severe weather. A body 
like the Army Corps of Engineers could be sent to rebuild, 
which would diffuse the responsibility for responding to 
climate change and improve 
the lives of millions of people 
across the world with new 
infrastructure.
In the face of climate 
change, policy action is required, but preparing for the 
worst is a much better option 
than trying and failing to stop 
it.
Student Pugwash is a nonadvocacy, educational organization that discusses the implications of science. This article 
is a summary of last weeks discussion on our reaction to climate change.
SCITECH BRIEFS
Chemistry Nobel laureates improve microscopy
Eric Betzig, a physicist at 
the Howard Hughes Medical 
Institutes Janelia Research 
Campus in Ashburn, Va.; Stefan Hell, a physicist at the Max 
Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry in Gttingen, 
Germany; and W.E. Moerner, 
a physical chemist at Stanford 
University, have been awarded 
the 2014 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing improved 
microscopy techniques. Due to 
resolution limits, traditional 
optical microscopes can only 
observe objects larger than 
200 nanometers. Objects 
smaller than 200 nanometers, 
such as cells, can be viewed by 
electron microscopy, which 
requires killing the cells. The 
new ?uorescence microscopy 
developed by the laureates 
overcomes traditional resolution limits, which allows for 
observation of small living objects such as cells and bacteria.
Source: Science News
Prosthetic hand improves sense of touch for amputees
Researchers at Case Western Reserve University and 
the Louis Stokes Cleveland VA 
Medical Center have developed a prosthetic hand that 
revives the sense of touch in 
amputees. The prosthetic uses 
a computer to send signals to 
surgically implanted cuffs surrounding major nerve bundles 
in the arm to stimulate nerves 
in the arm and brain. These 
nerves in turn relay the signal to the brain, where they 
activate the area of the brain 
associated with the sense of 
touch. By varying the pattern 
and intensity of the signals, 
researchers allow patients to 
distinguish between different 
textures and pressures. Patients using the prosthetic also 
noted a decrease in phantom 
pain. The research related to 
this project is published online 
in the journal Science Translational Medicine.
Source: Science Daily
New links found between genetics and coffee
Researchers from the Harvard School of Public Health 
and Brigham and Womens 
Hospital have discovered six 
new genetic variants that can 
be associated with regular coffee consumption. Of the six 
newly identi?ed variants, two 
are related to caffeine metabolism, two are thought to affect 
the positive effects of caffeine, 
and two are related to glucose 
and lipid metabolism, which 
were not previously associated 
with caffeine. The variants 
provide evidence as to why 
people respond differently 
to caffeine, and suggest that 
people automatically moderate their coffee intake in order 
to maximize the positive effects dictated by genetic predisposition. The research also 
suggests that genetic factors 
associated with increased coffee consumption directly increases caffeine metabolism.
Source: Science Daily
Ocean warming signi?cantly underestimated
Paul J. Durack of Lawrence 
Livermore National Laboratory, along with a team of researchers, has discovered that 
previous data regarding the 
change in ocean temperature 
is signi?cantly inaccurate. The 
study concluded that the top 
2,200 feet of the ocean has absorbed up to 58 percent more 
heat from 1970 to the mid2000s than initially calculated. The researchers concluded 
that the lack of agreement 
arose due to inconsistent sampling of water temperatures 
in the Southern Hemisphere 
and a general lack of temperature data before 2004, when a 
worldwide system of autonomous ?oats was activated. 
This new data could also impact our knowledge of the rate 
of sea-level rise data and how 
sensitive the climate is to the 
increase of greenhouse gases 
in the atmosphere.
Source: The New York Times
Dinosaurs coexisted due to different food preferences
David Button, a Ph.D. student in Bristols School of 
Earth Sciences and the Natural History Museum, along 
with a team of researchers, 
has discovered that multiple 
species of dinosaurs were able 
to coexist due to differences in 
diet.
The research focused on 
two species of dinosaurs, Camarasaurus and Diplodocus, 
which are known to have coexisted. The researchers used 
CT scans to digitally reconstruct the skulls, jaws, and 
neck muscles of both species. 
The research showed that Camarasaurus had a strong bite, 
which allowed it to feed on 
tough food, and Diplodocus 
had a relatively weak bite, 
which limited it to soft foods. 
The study suggests that these 
dietary restrictions ensured 
that the species did not compete for resources.
Source: Science Daily
Gut bacteria protein linked to eating disorders
Researchers at Rouen University in Rouen, France have 
discovered that a protein produced by bacteria in the gut 
could lead to eating disorders 
such as anorexia and bulimia. 
The production of the protein 
triggers the release of antibodies that bind to both the protein and a hormone that regulates fullness. The research 
showed that mice with the 
protein-producing bacteria altered their eating habits, while 
mice without the bacteria did 
not. It was also found that patients with anorexia and bulimia had higher levels of the 
relevant antibody.
This discovery has been 
among the ?rst to associate gut bacteria with eating 
disorders. The results of this 
study have been published in 
Translational Psychiatry.
Source: Science News
ADITHYA VENKATESAN
Junior Staffwriter
Snakes are interesting 
creatures, but what makes 
them extremely interesting 
to study for applications in 
robotics is the ways in which 
they move.
Researchers from Carnegie Mellon, Georgia Institute 
of Technology, and Oregon 
State University, as well as 
from Zoo Atlanta, have been 
studying Crotalus cerastes, 
more commonly known as 
the sidewinder rattlesnake. 
These snakes have the unique 
ability to move across sandy, 
sloping areas. Unfortunately, 
replicating this task in robot 
snakes proved dif?cult for the 
researchers.
Modular snake robots at 
Carnegie Mellon University 
were able to travel along level 
ground, but were unable to go 
up sandy slopes, which made 
these types of robots unreliable for certain applications, 
such as in the sandy environment of another planet.
Through studying the 
snake, the researchers discovered some of the secrets 
behind its motion. Both the 
vertical and horizontal motion had to be understood in 
order to properly emulate it. 
This movement translated to 
a unique wave motion that 
would allow the snake to 
New robots snake their way up sand
Courtesy of Hamid Marvi
Carnegie Mellon researchers mimic the locomotion of sidewinder rattlesnakes in modular snake robots. 
PUGWASH COLUMN
In climate debate, people must consider mitigation or adaptation 
Eunice Oh/Asst. Art Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
According to the American 
Cancer Society, the predicted 
number of cancer cases to be 
diagnosed by the end of 2014 
is approximately 1.7 million, 
with the number of Americans expected to die from 
cancer this year at 585,720. 
In the face of these daunting numbers, Carnegie Mellon associate professor of 
chemical engineering and 
biomedical engineering Kris 
Dahl has found a new way 
to prevent cancer cells from 
spreading  by changing the 
cells mechanical behavior.
In a study that was part 
of a collaboration with researchers from Pennsylvania 
State University, Dahl introduced ?50 lamin A, a protein 
that is associated with normal and premature aging, 
into cells which cause melanoma, a type of skin cancer. 
By monitoring the migration 
of melanoma cells using a 
?ow migration apparatus, 
Dahl found that as a result 
of this addition, the nuclei of 
the melanoma cells began to 
stiffen, impeding metastasis, 
the spread of cancer cells into 
other parts of the body.
According to the abstract 
of the paper regarding this 
research, which was recently 
published in the journal Cellular and Molecular Bioengineering, During metastasis, melanoma cells must be 
suf?ciently deformable to 
squeeze through extracellular barriers with small pore 
sizes. 
Consequently, with stiffened nuclei, these cells were 
unable to pass through extracellular barrier pores.
This ?nding is especially 
interesting because it suggests that it is not just the 
biology and chemistry  but 
also the mechanics  of cells 
that affect their behavior. 
Cancer is a mechanical disease, said Dahl in 
a university press release. 
Cancer cells have different 
mechanics than other cells 
in the body. We were able to 
alter the mechanics to reduce 
Cell mechanics play a role in the spread of cancer
COMPILED BY
Claire Gianakas
See CANCER, A6See SNAKE, A6

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  October 13, 2014
increase the amount of body 
area that was in contact with 
the surface material that it 
was trying to travel up or 
across.
Researchers at Zoo Atlanta 
looked at multiple sidewinders as they moved across an 
enclosure ?lled with sand. 
The sand could be manipulated to form different shapes 
and angles so that they could 
test the snakes in different environments. High speed video 
cameras were also put in the 
enclosure to observe the motion of the snakes. Hamid 
Marvi, a postdoctoral fellow 
and lecturer in the department of mechanical engineering at Carnegie Mellon, said in 
a video that the goal of these 
studies was to try to transfer 
what we learn from biology to 
the robotics world.
What they discovered was 
that the sidewinder uses a 
standard method for climbing sand. The snakes produce 
two different waves with their 
bodies that are orthogonal to 
each other.
Howie Choset, an associate professor at Carnegie Mellons Robotics Institute, said 
in a university press release, 
the snakes motion is similar 
to that of a tank in that parts 
of the snake are lifted up from 
the back while the front of the 
snake is put into contact with 
the surface. By controlling 
the contact surface area between the robot snake and its 
environment, the researchers 
were successfully able to make 
their robots climb up sand. By 
systematically studying the 
failures of robotic sidewinding, the researchers found 
three cases where sidewinding would end in failure. As 
a result, they can make sure 
to avoid these scenarios by 
preemptively adjusting the 
waves.
In testing the different 
methods of sidewinding, the 
researchers used a modular 
robot, one that is made up of 
many parts that transfer energy and information to and 
from each other.
In this study, the robot had 
16 joints, each joint perpendicular to the one before it. 
Shaped like a snake, it had a 
diameter of about two inches 
and a total length of just over 
three feet. 
The joints and long body 
allowed the snake to successfully simulate a real snake in 
the various postures that it 
could take. It could even surpass snakes, taking on postures that a real snake could 
not be manipulated into. In 
addition to this, there are 
many ways that this robotic 
snake can exceed the limitations of a real snake. With better arti?cial intelligence, the 
snake robots could become 
search-and-rescue robots, as 
they could travel through debris from buildings, as well 
as go to other planets for exploration over sandy or rocky 
surfaces.
Using this cooperation of 
robotics and biology, robots 
can be more versatile in their 
movements. 
If this continues, robots might even be able to 
do more than snakes can in 
movements.
CMU researchers combine biology and robotics
HOW THINGS WORKAnthropic principle explores the universes coincidences
SHAOJIE BAI
Junior Staffwriter
Have you ever wondered 
why the mathematical constant pi is approximately 
equal to 3.14159? Why the 
gravitational constant is of 
the order 10-11? Why stardust 
gathered in such a precise 
way as to create Earth as a 
habitable planet? These constants constitute formulas 
and mathematical equations 
that dominate our lives: The 
sun in our sky, the vehicles we 
use, and even the water that 
we drink. The coincidental 
way in which all these values 
?t together to create a world 
compatible for sapient life is 
explored through the concept 
of the anthropic principle.
Before we delve into the 
anthropic principle, it is 
worthwhile to look at some 
of the coincidences which 
inspired it. The ?rst is that 
the electromagnetic force is 
about 39 orders of magnitude stronger than the gravitational force. Had they been 
closer in magnitude, the stars 
would have collapsed long before the existence of life in the 
universe.
The second coincidence is 
the temperature of the sun. If 
the sun happened to be a little 
hotter or a little cooler, photosynthesis would not be able 
to occur, putting an end to the 
natural biochemical processes necessary for life on Earth.
A third coincidence is the 
value of pi. If pi were larger 
or smaller than it is, then all 
that we perceive as circular, 
such as orbits, or spherical objects, such as planets, would 
be completely reshaped. This 
would, in turn, lead to different planetary motion and life 
might not have appeared on 
Earth.
The anthropic principle 
seeks to summarize what we 
can learn from these incredible coincidences. In 1973, a 
meeting was held in Cracow, 
Poland in commemoration of 
the 500th anniversary of Copernicus birth. It was at this 
conference that theoretical 
astrophysicist Brandon Carter 
?rst brought up the idea of the 
anthropic principle. In 1974, 
Courtesy of Lauro Roger McAllister via Flickr
cancer evasion.
Dahls discovery has implications for future cancer 
therapies as well. With the 
knowledge that stiffened 
nuclei do not metastasize, 
mechanical properties of 
cells can be targeted for 
cancer cures. 
The pathway of cancer 
metastasis may be kept in 
check by mechanical factors in addition to known 
chemical pathway regulation, stated the abstract. 
This study will also 
shed light on the process 
that causes cells to age as 
people grow older, making 
this project not only useful for cancer applications, 
but also for ?nding cures to 
problems associated with 
aging.
Other authors of the 
publication include Cheng 
Dong, distinguished professor and department head 
of biomedical engineering 
at Pennsylvania State University; Alexandre J.S. Ribeiro, former Carnegie Mellon graduate student in the 
department of biomedical 
engineering; Payal Khanna, postdoctoral fellow at 
the National Institutes of 
Health; and Aishwarya Sukumar, former Carnegie 
Mellon masters student in 
biomedical engineering.
The discovery that cell 
mechanics can be manipulated to stop the spread of 
cancer cells ?ts into the interdisciplinary paradigm of 
research at Carnegie Mellon, strengthening the idea 
that innovation peaks at 
the intersection of different 
sciences.
CANCER, from A5
SNAKE, from A5
Dahl slows cancer spread
See PRINCIPLE, A7
Courtesy of Howie Choset
Howie Choset is a robotics professor at Carnegie Mellon.
Courtesy of Rob Felt
The sidewinder rattlesnake has unique locomotion.
Courtesy of Hamid Marvi
Hamid Marvi is a mechanical engineering postdoctoral fellow.

---------------------------------------------------

October 13, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A7
Carter gave the ?rst of?cial 
presentation of the principle 
to the world, hypothesizing 
that the anthropic coincidences are not purely the result of 
chance, but are actually built 
into the structure of the universe that we know. 
Carter proposed two versions of the anthropic principle. Carters weak anthropic 
principle says that our location in the universe is privileged. In other words, the coincidental way in which all the 
parameters of the universe fell 
into the narrow range which 
resulted in life on Earth is 
purely the result of being in 
the right place at the right 
time. This grand coincidence 
does not necessarily mean 
that the world was created for 
humans; rather, because our 
universe happens to be able to 
sustain human beings, human 
beings are capable of questioning these coincidences. 
On the other hand, Carters 
strong anthropic principle is 
much more theological, and 
states that the universe was 
created speci?cally so that life 
capable of observation and re?ection would one day emerge 
from it.
Most scientists today believe that the weak anthropic 
principle is a tautology  that 
it is always true  because if 
our location and environment 
had not been privileged or 
suitable, humans would not 
exist to observe it in the ?rst 
place. 
But what also makes the 
anthropic principle truly 
valuable is its strong version, 
which we can interpret in the 
following way: The universe 
is compelled, or designed, to 
have certain properties such 
that one day conscious life 
would emerge from it and, 
consequently, observe this universe. This implies that there 
may also be an in?nite number of other lifeless universes 
in which at least one factor or 
property failed to fall within 
the speci?c range required for 
life. But our universe, just as 
the strong anthropic principle 
states, is the one in which the 
nature gets all its properties 
correct  and our very existence testi?es this argument.
The anthropic principle  
tells us that everything in this 
universe was predetermined, 
because if the values of constants are not set correctly for 
life (as could be the case in another hypothetical universe), 
then no life would emerge to 
discover these constants. On 
the contrary, the constants 
and coincidences known by 
us are proof that the right 
combination must eventually 
occur. Nevertheless, critics to 
this principle argue that the 
anthropic principle is a nonscienti?c concept and that it is 
instead more of an induction 
process  something that we 
assume to be true because of 
past experiences. Moreover, 
even the tautology of the weak 
anthropic principle is questioned, because we have concluded that the anthropic principle is valid by using humans 
axiomatic system, but even 
this axiomatic logical system is 
a tool that we developed to understand this universe, which 
follows from the anthropic 
principle. This is just like using 
the outcome of a theorem to 
prove a theorem, which may 
be subject to the problem of 
circular explanation.
This brings us back to our 
initial position  the unbelievable coincidences. 
The physical constants of 
our universe are balanced in 
such a way that it seems they 
have been ?ne-tuned and 
carefully made for our existence. Why?
HOW THINGS WORK
Anthropic principle is where science intersects philosophy
The Lipper Awards are based on a review 
of 36 companies 2012 and 48 companies 
2013 risk-adjusted performance.
BEST OVERALL LARGE FUND COMPANY2
1Restrictions apply. Must be enrolled in a TIAA-CREF retirement plan to be eligible. 2The Lipper Award is given to the group with 
the lowest average decile ranking of three years Consistent Return for eligible funds over the three-year period ended 11/30/12 
and 11/30/13, respectively. TIAA-CREF was ranked against 36 fund companies in 2012 and 48 fund companies in 2013 with 
at least ? ve equity, ? ve bond, or three mixed-asset portfolios. TIAA-CREF Individual & Institutional Services, LLC, and Teachers 
Personal Investors Services Inc. C17743A 2014 Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America  College Retirement 
Equities Fund (TIAA-CREF), 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY, 10017.
Consider investment objectives, risks, charges and expenses carefully 
before investing. Go to tiaa-cref.org for product and fund prospectuses
that contain this and other information. Read carefully before investing.
TIAA-CREF funds are subject to market and other risk factors. Past 
performance does not guarantee future results.
DONT GET STUCK BETWEEN A ROTH AND  A HARD PLACE. 
The ins and outs of retirement planning can be 
puzzling. So at TIAA-CREF, we use personalized 
advice1 to help clients reach their long-term goals. 
We do it in person, online and on the phone. All at 
no extra charge. See what our professional advice 
and award-winning performance can do for your 
? nancial health. The sooner you act, the better. 
Learn more in one click at TIAA.org 
or call  -??.
5021A0002 C17743A ROTH 10x15 NWS Various_1.indd
Cyan Magenta Yellow Black
73092
PRINCIPLE, from A6

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University. 
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
Office: University Center 314
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
A8  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  October 13, 2014
Congratulations to SCS on 25 amazing years
As Carnegie Mellons School of 
Computer Science (SCS) celebrates 
its 25th anniversary this year, The 
Tartan would like to recognize the 
school for reaching this milestone 
in light of its quick rise to a premiere 
school. 
From the ?rst emoticon to the 
self-driving cars developed by the 
Robotics Institute, the School of 
Computer Science has had a major 
impact in shaping not only the Carnegie Mellon community, but also the 
world we live in.
A well-deserved brag sheet on 
the SCSs 25th anniversary website 
will tell you that in the 1950s, Allen 
Newell and Herb Simon (the professors for whom Newell-Simon Hall is 
named) were writing arti?cial intelligence programs before there were 
computers to run them, substituting 
index cards for software and graduate students gathered around the 
kitchen table for hardware.
The combination of imagination 
and insight they displayed alongside other pioneers of the ?eld they 
were both teaching and studying at 
Carnegie Mellon led to the creation 
of a Ph.D. program for computer science in the 1960s. As both the ?eld 
and the university grew, the School 
of Computer Science was of?cially 
opened in Dec. 1988 and in 1989 
began providing undergraduate students with a chance to major in computer science.
The School of Computer Science 
is one of the most notable and prestigious schools at Carnegie Mellon, 
and its faculty and students play 
important roles all across campus, 
including numerous positions at 
The Tartan. We hope that the entire 
campus community will take time to 
appreciate the importance of SCS to 
the furthering of science and technology in numerous ?elds, and wish 
the school many more years of continued success.
Emily Giedzinski/Staff Artist
CMU impresses with inspiring Cilidh speakers 
As part of the festivities of Cilidh 
weekend, Carnegie Mellon University tradtionally invites renowned 
speakers to come and discuss their 
areas of expertise.
Last Tuesday, Commander of 
United States Central Command 
General Lloyd Austin III spoke on 
Central Commands signi?cance in 
national defense. Central Command 
includes the Middle East and Central 
Asia, stretching from Kazakhstan to 
Egypt, including Iran, Saudi Arabia, 
and Pakistan.
On Friday, former Supreme Court 
Justice David Souter spoke on the 
importance of the humanities for 
a healthy nation. Carnegie Mellon 
tends to focus closely on science and 
technology, given the strength of 
those programs, but these excellent 
speakers showcase that the university also values its commitment to the 
humanities.
General Austin oversees all of the 
United States operations in the Middle East and Central Asia. General 
Austins talk focused on recent policies in that region, most notably the 
aftermath of the American invasion 
of Iraq and the security situation in 
Afghanistan. 
He also spoke on United States 
relationships with our various allies 
in the region, and the complex interlocking web of different alliances, religious af?liations, and ethnic 
con?icts that contribute to the state 
of the region today. Meanwhile, Justice Souter spoke on the importance 
of humanities for building a stable 
nation.
Both General Austin and former 
Justice Souter are more than experts 
in their respective ?elds; they both 
play, or have played, an essential role 
in the governance of our nation. The 
decisions these two have made over 
their careers have certainly affected 
the lives of many people in a myriad 
of ways. 
While theoretical speakers are 
always interesting, people who had 
such direct and concrete impacts 
on the world make for fascinating 
lecturers.
As a school dedicated to the 
emergence of new technologies, it is 
also important to remember the policies and controversies that impact 
our social and political rights, as well 
as the impact that our nation has in 
relation to the rest of the world. 
These speakers served as a resounding reminder of these various 
in?uences upon our lives and the 
necessity of having strong leaders 
to continue formulating the policies 
that will further change our lives.
Pittsburgh restaurant grades promote health
Allegheny Countys Health Department is developing and considering implementing A-B-C restaurant grades for health inspections. 
A pilot program for this system was 
implemented over the summer and 
opened for public comment. If this 
program were adopted, Pittsburgh 
would join cities such as New York 
and Los Angeles in providing a clearer indication for consumers as to the 
cleanliness of the restaurants they 
dine at.
The current form of this proposal 
would have health inspectors grade 
restaurants out of a score of 100, 
with deductions being made for 
violations. The letter grades would 
be assigned on a standard academic 
scale, where a 90 and above would 
be an A, an 80 and above would be 
awarded a B, and so on. Any grade 
below a C would be subject to Health 
Department enforcement actions. 
If an inspected restaurant is not 
awarded an A during their ?rst inspection, the grade will not be posted on the front of the restaurants facility, but will be available online. A 
re-inspection will then be scheduled, 
after which the second awarded 
grade will be posted on the restaurants exterior.
The awarding of letter grades 
would provide an incentive for restaurants to improve their cleanliness. Before, a restaurant would only 
need to pass a health inspection to 
stay open for business. However, 
with customers likely being deterred 
from eating somewhere with a lower 
letter grade, there is the added incentive for additional improvements 
to the condition and sanitation of 
eating establishments.
While the owners of some restaurants are objecting to the proposal, 
the bene?ts to consumers and the 
public through decreased instances 
of food illness would very much outweigh any additional costs borne by 
the restaurant owners. 
Last week, the legislation was referred to committee within the Pittsburgh city government, and it looks 
as if it will pass. This measure will go 
a long way toward protecting public 
health and ensuring that consumers are being served food in a clean 
environment.
JUSTIN YAN 
 
Although Ebola has raged 
through news snippets since March, 
the American general public has 
only started paying attention to the 
disease and its effects on both African and domestic affairs since the 
disease travelled across the Atlantic 
Ocean. 
This attention can be seen 
through Google Trends; a huge 
spike in interest occurred when Eric 
Duncan, a Liberian national who 
died on Oct. 8 on United States soil, 
was diagnosed with Ebola and admitted into an isolation ward in Dallas, Texas.
What does this show about the 
United States and our attitude in 
general? While some news outlets 
have labeled the intermittent attention of the American public xenophobic and racist, I think it is natural that people tend to focus on news 
that concerns themselves  news 
that has a direct impact on American 
lives. From this standpoint, Ebola 
reaching American soil should rightfully cause a dramatic increase in 
coverage of the diagnosis and treatment of Americans with the disease.
What many of us fail to realize is 
that when Ebola was only starting to 
rage through Western Africa, it did 
have an impact on our world. Ebola 
is one of the deadliest viruses ever 
seen, and the sheer horror and pain 
of being diagnosed with the disease 
only adds to the mystique around 
it. A large-scale pandemic would be 
disastrous for peoples livelihoods, 
existing healthcare infrastructure, 
and the world economy. Considering this effect on the U.S., the medias portrayal of the disease has 
been almost catastrophic. We cant 
label Ebola a Third-World disease, 
when even so-called First-World 
medicine cant completely cure it. 
Have we ever asked ourselves what 
it would be like to live in Libera or 
Sierra Leone, where medical facilities are understaffed with limited 
resources?
It is imperative to note that United States healthcare infrastructure 
is one of the few crucial advantages 
we have over West African nations in 
managing an Ebola outbreak. American medical aid in Africa would 
have bene?tted both the United 
States and the international community in addition to the nations 
themselves. 
The government response was 
centered on securing Americans, 
while very little aid ?ew the other 
way. Media portrayal of Ebola has 
focused on how the weight of the 
blame swings between natural circumstances and the lack of trained 
medical professionals.
The solution to the Ebola crisis 
will require a systematic reshuf?ing 
of healthcare in the af?icted nations, and this is where the United 
Nations needs to go from bystander 
to active executive. Ebola is no longer an isolated problem in Western 
Africa; it may very soon dictate the 
fate of the international community.
Justin Yan (jky@) is a staffwriter for 
The Tartan.
KAYLA LEE
Junior Staffwriter
During the past two weeks, 
hundreds of Colorado high school 
students have walked out of class 
to protest proposed changes to the 
Advanced Placement (AP) United 
States History Exam. Four high 
schools even closed for a day when 
teachers organized a sick out, 
claiming that the school board is 
not listening to them on a range of 
issues, including the AP curriculum.
The protests were in response 
to a resolution by Jefferson County 
school board member Julie Williams. The resolution stated that 
AP United States History classes 
should promote patriotism and  
the bene?ts of the free-enterprise 
system and should not encourage 
or condone civil disorder. As soon 
as she heard that conservatives were 
upset, Williams proposed a committee to review the districts courses. 
According to Williams, the committee will work to improve the AP 
United States History curriculum. 
In an interview with the local Fox 
News af?liate, Williams stated that 
her resolution was to teach history 
without bias.
Jefferson County is Colorados 
second-largest school district, with 
a conservative majority of elected 
members in the school board. Williams proposal caused a spark of 
protest from board members. Conservative board members claim that 
the new curriculum undervalues 
concepts such as American Exceptionalism. Protests began with 100 
students, who claim that they do not 
want their history censored.
The issues around what education should and should not be have 
been brought up. Many educators 
would agree that classrooms should 
promote critical thinking and teach 
students based on the facts. The 
educational environment should be 
a place where students and teachers can share ideas and build on 
them using knowledge acquired. 
The more students know, the more 
evidence they can draw from when 
engaging in academic discussion.
Additionally, it is important to 
consider the purpose of the AP exams. Most students take the AP exams in order to send the scores to 
colleges for credit. Receiving college 
credit for high school education is 
important. The AP score is supposed 
to re?ect a level of critical thinking 
that is expected at the college level. 
This kind of critical thinking can 
only take place when the student 
has the necessary information.
Especially in the case of history 
courses, students have the right to 
be educated in an unbiased environment. Yes, cultural bias in teaching 
is unavoidable and every teacher 
holds their own beliefs. However, 
when changing the curriculum of 
an AP course, one should consider 
the fact that any change should help 
students develop critical thinking 
skills by applying acquired knowledge. This knowledge should be provided without censorship, because 
students have the right to know the 
complete history, and not just snippets of it.
AP students deserve to know unbiased history
Ebola is not an isolated issue, but international
Editorial Staff
Editorial Board
RACHEL COHEN *
Publisher
BRADEN KELNER *
Editor-in-Chief
ARIEL HOFFMAIER
Forum Editor 
KATE GROSCHNER *
Contributing Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Contributing Editor
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Staffwriter
LAURA SCHERB *
Operations Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
SciTech Editor
JOEY PEISER
Pillbox Editor
ZEKE ROSENBURG
Sports Editor
MARYYANN LANDLORD
Comics Editor
JONATHAN LEUNG
Photo Editor
MICHELLE WAN
Art Editor
MARTHA PATERSON
Online Editor
MAIRAD PETTIT
Personnel Manager
ANNE-SOPHIE KIM
Layout Manager
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
JOHN HUO
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JAMES WU
Copy Manager
NIVEDITA CHOPRA
Asst. Copy Manager
EVAN KAHN
Asst. Copy Manager
ROBERT MARATOS
Asst. Systems Manager
BENJAMIN CHANG
Asst. Business Manager
ROHAN VARMA
Asst. SciTech Editor
XIYU WANG
Asst. Forum Editor
JENNA BODNAR
Asst. Pillbox Editor
EUNICE OH
Asst. Art Editor
SENIOR STAFF 
Carl Glazer, Greg Hanneman, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Lula Beresford-Banker, Francesca Begos, 
Christopher Benson, Amelia Britton, Gordon 
Estes, Rin Fair, Stephanie Stern, Emily 
Giedzinski, Stephen Stern, Emily Tsui, Diana 
Zhou
LAYOUT
Isabel Bleimeister, Yong Gun Choe, Michael 
Das, Rin Fair, Aishwarya Guda, Seungmin Ha, 
Korrawat Jianthanakanon, Rissa Lee, Udaya 
Malik, Evelyn Pandos, Ian Tanaya, Abhy 
Vytheeswaran  
ADVERTISING
Alison Chiu, Anuva Kulkarni
 2014 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
* Denotes executive committee member

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
October 13, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A9
The Tartan spotted a lot of strange and unfamiliar adults on campus this week. So we asked,
How did your parents spend Cilidh weekend?
Compiled by Justin McGown
Jong-un disappears, media speculate
RUSSELL HOLBERT
Junior Staffwriter
Online news media has sent out 
an unof?cial missing persons report 
for the North Korean Supreme Leader Kim Jong-un. Now, in true North 
Korean fashion, the government has 
no comment on the matter. 
During the dictators absence, 
every news source has made its own 
speculations, ranging from a military coup to severe caviar-induced 
gout. Any person with an Internet 
connection has been able to witness 
the in?ammatory nature of digital 
journalism.
Last Friday, the North Korean 
Workers Party celebrated its 69th 
anniversary, with the countrys 
third-generation leader nowhere 
to be seen. His absence at the ruling partys festivities, acknowledged 
only by the presentation of ?owers in 
his name, further piqued the interest 
of writers following the retreat from 
the public Jong-un began on Sept. 3.
In the absence of facts and answers, news sources have begun assuming the nature of the 31-year-old 
rulers disappearance: ?eeing a military coup, injuries from a military 
drill, severe gout, and so on. The 
most interesting and obscene part 
of the medias coverage of this international mystery is the invalidity of 
its projections. There is no proof to 
the speculations that any one paper, 
website, or other medium is claiming 
beyond anonymous tips, U.S. Intelligence, or pure speculation. Even 
when, and if, the stout Premier returns from his mysterious escapade, 
there is no guarantee that anyone  
in or out of North Korea  will ever 
know what transpired in the 40-plus 
days that he has been internationally 
unaccounted for.
On the same Friday honoring the 
two previous North Korean leaders, 
father and grandfather to the current, the festivities lost focus as machine gun ?re volleyed across the 
boundary to South Korea, in reaction 
to anti-communist literature being 
air-ballooned North across the border. This mild, casualty-free skirmish 
might normally go unnoticed by the 
Buzzfeed-style articles that populate 
the top section of any Google search. 
However, the less the news knows, 
the more they have to report.
The unraveling story of Kim Jongun is a prime example of the unprecedented swelling nature of current 
news coverage. This is the prevalence of stories and articles that ?ll 
in blanks and missing facts with 
uninformed speculation. Jong-un is 
gone, no one knows why, and no one 
knows where he is. Should he return, 
there will still be speculation as the 
North Korean government continues 
to release nothing. News media will 
continue to be relentless in building 
the stories they want from empty 
space.
KYLE HENSON 
This past week, plans were announced to build an oil pipeline of 
massive scale that would connect 
Albertas energy-rich oil sands to 
the Canadian Atlantic coast just 
northeast of Maine. This pipeline is 
in response to a frustrating lack of a 
decision from President Obama regarding the proposed Keystone XL 
pipeline that would take the same 
oil through the United States to Louisiana and Kentucky re?neries. The 
new pipeline, called Energy East, is 
more than twice as long as Keystone, 
carries a third more oil, and is a 
great example of how the desires of 
the market always come to fruition, 
regardless of legal impediments.
Obama hasnt made a decision on 
Keystone because hes been battling 
environmental criticisms from the 
left, while also facing ?ak from the 
right about letting those concerns 
prevent Keystones construction and 
all the jobs that it would create. Additionally, Keystone supporters tout 
that having a consistent source of 
energy from our friendly northern 
neighbor would reduce Americas 
energy dependence on the increasingly unstable Middle East. As a result of these competing concerns, 
Obama has deferred making a decision on Keystone for six years while 
oil demand, especially from the 
emerging markets of India and China, continues to skyrocket.
Oil companies arent going to 
forgo a signi?cant market opportunity because of political challenges 
and, as a result, we now have Energy 
East, which is worse for the environment and creates a number of Canadian jobs, but no American jobs. In 
essence, Obamas indecision has created a situation that is, by all measures, much worse than if Keystone 
XL was approved.
This type of situation is inevitable if politicians attempt to thwart 
signi?cant market demand. Another 
example is the current state of the 
drug market in the United States. 
Because drugs are illegal, drug users 
are pushed into increasingly dangerous situations. Often, they dont get 
the drugs they want and experience 
adverse effects. Cartels in Mexico 
have created signi?cant challenges 
for the Mexican government and 
raised a multitude of humanitarian 
issues for the United States with the 
recent immigration crisis. If drugs 
were legal, these problems would 
disappear.
Another well-publicized example 
happened in Ireland, when the Irish 
government attempted to reduce the 
amount of trash that Irish citizens 
generated by making people pay a 
tax on collection of more than two 
bags of trash. Instead of curbing 
their consumption, the Irish simply 
started burning their trash, which 
was worse for the environment and 
led to a lot of ?re-related deaths 
and accidents. The environment 
was worse off, and Irish hospitals 
were overwhelmed with burn victims, which increased healthcare 
costs, and diverted medical resources away from people with other 
problems.
Instead of trying to alter the 
most convenient way for market demand to be met, countries looking 
to generate positive outcomes from 
this market demand should seek to 
work within the system, rather than 
thwart it altogether. If drugs were 
legal but heavily regulated, not only 
could drug users get safe drugs, but 
organizations like Narcotics Anonymous could ?nd a way to reach drug 
users and guide them out of addiction. Instead of penalizing trash creation, rewarding recycling has been 
much more fruitful for countries 
looking to promote sustainability.
With this oil pipeline, a similar 
tactic should be implemented. Oil is 
already very heavily regulated and 
taxed. Maybe Keystone XL should 
be approved, but an additional tax 
could be levied on the associated 
oil re?neries and the money could 
be used to purchase carbon offsets 
to assuage environmental concerns. 
Thats just one idea, and its de?-
nitely not perfect, but that outcome 
would be far more desirable to all 
parties than the Energy East solution. The road to hell is paved with 
good intentions, so its better to 
work within the system than against 
it.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Courtesy of Ekabhishek via Wikimedia Commons
Allison Chiu/Staff Artist
XIYU WANG 
At the end of September, California passed a wave of new bills that 
included SB 967, more commonly 
known as the af?rmative consent 
law. The bill shows that California 
is responding to a need for laws that 
protect its citizens against sexual assault. However, the bill does not address the immediate reasons behind 
why sexual assault cases have become such a problem.
Californias new law requires 
that universities use af?rmative consent  or yes means yes  as the 
de?nition of consent and provide 
training programs to their students, 
which will get people talking about 
consent and hopefully change the 
culture surrounding rape. However, 
the bill leaves huge gaps in terms of 
actually deterring and prosecuting 
sexual assault.
In most sexual assault cases, it 
is not a lack of a clear-cut de?nition 
of consent that is the major problem, but rather the lack of a proper 
response when such cases are reported. In Catholic Church sex abuse 
scandals, for example, there is no 
question that children abused by 
priests were unable to consent. The 
major problem is that the church 
failed to investigate the claims properly and punish the offenders. The 
perpetrators dont care about their 
victims consent, especially when 
their victims are powerless to seek 
justice against them.
There will always be some dif?culty in enforcing laws against 
sex crimes because the acts are almost always done in privacy and 
it is dif?cult to tell if someone has 
been sexually assaulted from physical evidence. As a result, scandals 
involving sexual assault or abuse 
share two main characteristics: one, 
victims are often reluctant to report the crime; two, even when it is 
reported, the investigation can be 
inadequate, opaque, or too time-intensive and emotionally draining for 
the victim to follow through on the 
proceedings.
In the latter case, victims dont report because they fear exposing such 
vulnerable moments of their private 
life to other people, as well as backlash from members of their community. In the former, there are a 
number of well-publicized stories of 
schools mishandling sexual assault 
cases. In some cases, administrators dismiss cases outright. In other 
cases, they either do not adequately 
punish the perpetrator or provide no 
protections to the victim against further actions by the perpetrator.
Regarding enforcement, the 
bill does state that each university 
should have a policy regarding investigations, but it does not specify exactly what policy universities should 
have. Without speci?c guidelines on 
reporting and enforcement, the bill 
does nothing to protect a victims 
privacy or ensure a fair investigation. 
Some speci?c policies to consider 
are: independent and anonymous 
panels to review cases, laws protecting the privacy rights of victims who 
report sexual assault, and proper 
documentation of the proceedings 
to which the victim has access so 
the victim has legal recourse if the 
school mishandles their case.
Furthermore, the bill offers no 
clear guidelines as to how to resolve 
cases in which there is no evidence 
other than the testimonies of the victim and perpetrator, or if both parties have been drinking and one later 
reports the other. These dif?cult 
cases, along with other important 
policies on enforcement, would presumably be left up to the schools to 
decide, which is hardly any different 
from the status quo.
With all these ambiguities in the 
bill, at best it can be a state-sponsored awareness campaign. With 
speci?c guidelines on enforcement, 
not only would California better protect its college students in cases of 
sexual assault, but it could also be 
a model on which other institutions 
can base their procedures for handling sexual assault. Consent should 
only be the starting point for which 
any sexual assault policy is based on; 
hopefully California will follow up 
on SB 967 with laws more focused 
on enforcement.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a 
staffwriter for The Tartan.
Law must enforce Yes means yes
Obamas inaction leads to worse oil alternative
Arnav Tayal
Business Administration
First-year
My parents are in India.
Noah Fatsi
Statistics
Junior
My parents had a wedding to go 
to this week.
Machika Kaku
Biology
Sophomore
My parents are at Chipotle without me.
Lina Sherenet
Statistics, Public Policy & 
Management
Sophomore
My parents have more of a social 
life than I do  they had a party 
this weekend.
LeShaun Jones
Statistics, Psychology
Sophomore
My parents are busy unpacking 
their new house!

---------------------------------------------------

XR Trading is currently hiring 
Traders and Software Engineers
Did you get a 31 or better on the ACT?
Did you get a 700 or better on the Math Portion of the SAT?
Are you interested in the trading industry 
and have programming experience?
If so, XR Trading may have a Trader 
position for you!
Are you fast at programming, with 
experience in C++, Matlab or R?
If so, XR Trading may have a 
Software Engineer position for you!
XR Trading is a proprietary trading firm located in the heart of Chicagos financial district. We design 
and build cutting-edge technology and serve as a leader in the global derivatives marketplace. 
We employ a team-based approach and leverage our technology and core competencies across 
a wide array of asset classes.
  100% employer-paid medical coverage  
  through Blue Cross Blue Shield-XR pays  
  100% of deductible
   Comprehensive dental and vision   
  coverageXR pays 100% of premium
   15 vacation days + 11 holidays
   Matching 401(K)
  Base salary starting at $80,000
   Discretionary bonus starting 
  at 0-$30,000
Benefits ProvidedCompetitive Compensation
XRTRADING.COM

---------------------------------------------------

October 13, 2014  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A11
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
September marked a new 
season for all Carnegie Mellon student athletes. It also 
marked the beginning of the 
tenure of the new womens 
water polo coach, Mark 
Rauterkus.
It all began one day in 
August. Sophomore chemical engineering and biomedical engineering double major 
Maya Holay, captain of the 
team, and teammate, sophomore design major Jillian Nelson were enjoying an informal 
pickup game at the Citiparks 
Ammon Pool in the Hill District when they met Rauterkus, who organized the game. 
When the two athletes suggested a possible opportunity 
for Rauterkus to be involved in 
college athletics, he accepted 
the then-vacant coaching role.
Rauterkus is a swimming 
and water polo veteran, and 
has coached the former at various high schools since 1976. 
In the past, he has cumulatively coached eight college 
seasons, two of which were 
dedicated to water polo, at 
schools like Ohio University, 
Baylor University, Bradley 
University, and Chatham University.
 In addition to university 
coaching, he has led water 
polo camps for ?ve years during summers, as well as in 
other settings.
The women of the water 
polo team here at Carnegie 
Mellon are a completely different story.
The kids have been great 
and are heavily self-motivated. Maya runs every practice 
before I arrive, which to me 
is welcoming to an outside 
voice, like me, the coach said.
With the help of the team 
members go-getter attitude in 
and out of the pool, Rauterkus 
said he plans to put his best 
foot forward in promoting the 
teams success.
Since the team is still a 
recreational intramural organization made of a blend 
of beginners and veterans, 
Rauterkus said there is a need 
to have organized, structured 
practices where skills can be 
taught through peer-to-peer 
demonstrations.
He uses practices to tactically choose who starts games, 
as well as match team members with approximate skill 
levels for exercises to improve 
team dynamics. 
He also seeks to implement 
effective strategy that is not 
limited to game play, but extends to building relationships 
regionally and nationally. 
He plans to build up the 
teams reputation through active recruitment of student 
players as well as assistance 
to other universities that are 
attempting to establish themselves in water polo.  
Rauterkus predicts that 
this will promote camaraderie 
and support on both sides, and 
increase Carnegie Mellons 
chances of hosting successful 
home events in the future.
However, the coach agreed 
that the most challenging aspect of his job is encouraging 
student athletes to practice 
regularly despite their rigorous curriculum.
As a coach, my job is to 
be supportive of the athletes 
enjoyment and success in 
the sport as well as all other 
aspects of their life. said 
Rauterkus.
Since the installment of 
the new coach, the womens 
water polo team is venturing 
down the path to becoming a 
competitive team.
Football
On Saturday, the Carnegie 
Mellon Football team played 
at Bethany College. 
Junior quarterback Andrew Hearon ran for a touchdown before The Tartans 
faltered. The defense let up 
19 straight points, and the offense averaged less than 3.5 
yards a play and turned the 
ball over twice for the game. 
The team fell 197.
The Tartans next play at 
home against Grove City College on Saturday.
Volleyball
The Carnegie Mellon volleyball team competed in the 
Ithaca Tournament this weekend, sweeping their matches.
In the game against Kings 
College, the Tartans won 25
11, 2512 and 259. First-year 
outside hitter Heather Holton 
had 10 kills, and sophomore 
defensive specialist Molly 
Higgins had 11 digs.
Against Ithaca College, 
the Tartans won 2515, 25-
22, 2522. Sophomore setter 
Emily Newton had 22 assists, 
Holton had 14 kills, and Higgins had 10 digs.
Saturday, they beat Utica 
College, 2517, 2518, 2516 
and Wells College, 2513, 25
18, 2519. Sophomore middle 
blocker Jackie Gibbons had 11 
and 8 kills against Utica and 
Wells, respectively, while Higgins had 18 digs against Utica 
and ?rst-year middle blocker 
Eliza Donohue had 8 blocks 
against Wells.
The Tartans next play 
Wednesday at home against 
Franciscan University of 
Steubenville.
Cross-country
The mens and womens 
cross-country teams hosted 
the annual Carnegie Mellon 
Invitational on Saturday.
The mens team ?nished 
?rst overall with a top ?ve 
combined time of 2:09:19.6. 
Senior George Degen ?nished 
third overall in 25:23.00.  The 
next four Tartans, juniors Brian Bollens and Marc-Daniel 
Julien, along with sophomore 
Ryan Archer and senior Josh 
Antonson, ?nished in 811th 
places.
The womens team had a 
top-three ?nisher in junior Liz 
Snyder who ?nished second 
overall with a time of 18:32.5. 
Overall, Carnegie Mellon as 
a team placed fourth overall 
with a total time of 1:36.35.3, 
and had a second top-ten ?nisher in senior Erin Kiekhaefer, 
who ?nished in 19:06.1, for 
seventh overall.
Both teams next run at 
the Inter-Regional Rumble at 
Oberlin College.
 Compiled by 
CARL GLAZER
The newest member of CMU water polo: the coach
Desiree Xu/Business Manager
Coach Mark Rauterkus (far left) discusses game strategies that could be practiced with the players.
Desiree Xu/Business Manager
Coach Rauterkus (left) with team captain Maya Holay (right).
SPORTS BRIEFS

---------------------------------------------------

thetartan.org/sports  A12 October 13, 2014  The Tartan
BRADEN KELNER
Editor-In-Chief
As the Carnegie Mellon 
club baseball teams fall season comes to a close at the end 
of the month, the team sits just 
over .500 with ?ve wins and 
four losses.
Being a club team at the 
university, the team is not considered as competitive as the 
Division III sports on campus, 
but that doesnt mean the student athletes who play arent 
serious about the sport.
The team, competing in the 
National Club Baseball Association (NCBA) league, started 
their season on Sept. 7 with a 
win against the Community 
College of Allegheny County 
South, and two more wins 
on Sept. 13 against the Boyce 
campus. 
The following week, the 
team fell to the community 
colleges Boyce campus team 
in two close games, 86 and 
75, respectively. The team 
suffered one more loss to Westminster College on Sept. 28 
before overcoming Duquesne 
University with two wins and 
one loss in a three-game series 
on Oct. 45. The teams biggest competitors are Robert 
Morris University, Saint Francis University, Duquesne, and 
the California University of 
Pennsylvania, as well as West 
Virginia University (WVU), 
which the team is scheduled 
to play on Oct. 2526. 
In addition to competing 
in the fall season, the team 
competes in the spring, playing a total of about 30 games 
over both seasons. The team 
traditionally travels to Florida 
at the start of spring break 
to take part in NCBA Spring 
Training, where they compete 
against teams outside of their 
main competitors pool.
I came into school knowing I was going to play, said 
senior pitcher, shortstop, and 
team president Darryl Tan. 
Ive been playing baseball my 
whole life, so joining the team 
was a no-brainer for me. It was 
a good way to meet people, 
sharing the passion I have for 
baseball with other people.
Tan said that, while many 
players have joined the team 
with travel or high school experience, many have not had 
prior experience. 
This year, the team lost ?ve 
outgoing senior starters, but 
gained six ?rst-year students. 
The freshmen really stepped 
up. We got a good recruiting 
class, Tan said of the incoming students.
Darren Kerfoot, junior 
pitcher, shortstop and team 
captain, said he joined the 
team his ?rst-year at the university and made it known 
that he wanted to lead the 
team. I wanted to express to 
the rest of the team how baseball should be played, Kerfoot 
said.
He became the captain his 
sophomore year. During the 
fall 2013 season, the team 
swept WVU, which, according 
to Kerfoot, has not happened 
for several years. I think this 
upcoming year, were going 
to be just ?ne, Kerfoot said of 
this years rematch.
Tan said that, as the team 
moves forward, Were being 
more aggressive with our bats, 
taking more swings rather 
than taking walks, and getting 
quality swings in. Tan said 
that, defensively, the team is 
hoping to limit physical errors 
and stay with tough hops.
Our main goal is winning 
the conference and then really 
competing in the postseason, 
trying to get to ... the national 
championship, said Kerfoot. 
A good mental goal is to just 
be focused and play hard in 
every game  every practice 
 every time you have the opportunity to.
Tan, a senior psychology 
and biological sciences major, 
said of balancing academics with playing on the team, 
We always tell people that 
academics come ?rst ... but at 
the same time, we have to be 
committed to the team and 
come to practice ... but if you 
have of?ce hours or extra help 
during practice time, we always tell you just come ... get 
your swings in, get your work 
in before you go back to work 
which is always the main thing 
we want. You are here for academics.
The teams talents extend 
beyond baseball. The student 
athletes are currently the universitys reigning intramural 
dodgeball champions, and 
have played intramural softball in the past as well, according to Tan, who said that the 
team is also considering playing intramural basketball this 
year.
Courtesy of Darryl Tan
Top: Sophomore shortstop Rainer Nunez awaits a pitch from Robert Morris University.  Bottom: The Carnegie 
Mellon baseball team plays at the spring training event in Florida.
Carnegie Mellon club baseball nears end of fall season
ZEKE ROSENBERG
Sports Editor
A ?rst-year outside hitter 
and undeclared Dietrich College student, Heather Holton 
has already established herself as a threat on the volleyball court.
By just her ?fth week with 
the Carnegie Mellon volleyball team, she has already 
brought home honors as the 
Eastern Collegiate Athletic 
Conference (ECAC) South 
Rookie of the Week.
She did not stop there, 
however. After her stellar play 
in a 30 sweep of the 20th 
ranked DePauw University 
at the end of September, she 
took home the University Athletic Association (UAA) Athlete of the Week title, UAAs 
highest weekly award.
I did not expect to get recognized so soon, Holton said, 
but her play spoke for itself.
Holtons competitive nature and composure help her 
more than anything on the 
court.
[Volleyball] is based [on] 
mentality, she said. We try 
to get in peoples heads and 
talk across the net.
Holton said that she brings 
a cool head to the ?oor, which 
allows her mind to stay in 
the game, even as others get 
rattled by noise coming from 
Carnegie Mellons side of the 
court. 
Her focus is apparent in 
her play as well, for she consistently is among the team 
leaders in kills, which lights 
up the scoreboard for a very 
successful Carnegie Mellon 
team.
Not all of those kills come 
from mindset, though. Holton 
has honed her skills through 
her favorite drill, Vegas, in 
which a player receives a series of free balls, that they 
attempt to hit for points.
If she scores the majority 
of the free balls, she receives a 
money ball for all or nothing. 
The practice has paid off, and 
not just for Holton.
Carnegie Mellon upset 
Mount Washington, ranked 
at the time ?fth in NCAA Division III, in mid-September.
Carnegie Mellon won the 
?rst and fourth sets by tight 
2523 scores, handing Mount 
Washington their ?rst loss of 
the year. Holton cited this win 
as her proudest moment in 
her short time with the team.
It showed our potential, 
she said. Carnegie Mellons 
154 record to this point indicates that she was right.
Holton has spent six years 
playing volleyball, and her 
dedication to the sport is 
apparent.
She said she appreciates 
its impact on her life despite 
her demanding schedule, 
and welcomes the challenge 
to stay organized and committed, balancing her life as a 
student with her life as an athlete despite the massive time 
commitments to both. 
She is a competitive person who likes to be active, 
and volleyball appeals to both 
these interests.
Holton also is grateful for 
the friends and support volleyball provides, including 
senior right side hitter Ali 
Celentano, who she refers to 
as a mentor.
Well compete with each 
other, she said. Sometimes, 
after a match, Ill tell her I 
had more kills than you or 
shell say I had more kills 
than you.
For Holton, volleyball is 
about the team more than 
anything. Mostly, she said, 
Im proud to represent Carnegie Mellon volleyball.
Heather Holton impresses in ?rst season at university
Courtesy of Carnegie Mellon Athletics
Heather Holton, ?rst-year outside hitter, is among the team leaders in kills.
CMU soccer splits matches
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon 
mens and womens soccer 
teams hosted Washington 
University in St. Louis on Saturday, as they each continued 
University Athletic Association (UAA) play.
The men started out 
strong, ?ghting to rebound 
following their scoreless tie 
last week. After a quick initial 
shot on goal, the Tartans kept 
Washington away from the 
net while peppering the goal 
with ?ve shots of their own in 
the ?rst half, but nothing saw 
the back of the net. 
The lack of scoring did 
not equate to a lack of excitement; three yellow cards 
were awarded in the ?rst half 
alone, two of them to Tartans, 
before two more cards were 
split between the two teams 
in the second half.
Coming out of half time at 
a 00 stand still, both teams 
played aggressively, racking 
up a combined 19 fouls in the 
half (10 for Carnegie Mellon). 
Unfortunately, even with 
the added aggression, neither team was able to ?nd the 
net, causing the Tartans to go 
into overtime for the second 
straight game. 
In the 95th minute, it 
looked like the scoring 
drought might ?nally end 
when Washington was granted a penalty kick, but senior 
goalkeeper Jacob Rice had 
other ideas as he made the 
key save that ultimately set up 
the Tartan win.
In the second and ?nal 
overtime period, it looked like 
the game was going for another tie until the 108th minute 
when junior mid?elder Connor Webb earned a penalty 
kick, and a chance to end the 
game. 
Unlike Washington, Webb 
was able to take advantage of 
his opportunity and knocked 
the ball into the back of the 
net, pushing the Tartans to 
101 in UAA play and 731 
overall.
In the second game of 
the afternoon, the fourthranked womens team took on 
Washingtons second-ranked 
team in the battle of UAA 
heavyweights.
The ?rst half ended in the 
same 00 tie as the mens 
match, but instead of great 
goalkeeping and missed opportunities, this time it was 
a story of defense, as neither team allowed a single 
shot. The ball barely even got 
into either teams defensive 
zone without quickly being 
cleared. The Tartans received 
only two corner kicks, and did 
not give up any.
In the second half, each 
team started playing a bit 
looser and pushed harder as 
they tried to break the tie.
 Washington ?nally got the 
?rst shot of the game in the 
51st minute, followed quickly 
by the ?rst Carnegie Mellon 
shot in the 58th minute when 
sophomore forward Megan 
Bartoshuks hard shot was 
turned away by the Washington goalkeeper. 
The ?rst and only goal of 
the game ?nally came in the 
62nd minute when Washington scored off of a rebound 
given up after sophomore 
goalkeeper Katie Liston ?rst 
saved a free kick.
The Tartans tried furiously to come back to avoid 
their ?rst loss of the season, 
but it was to no avail as the 
sti?ing Washington defense 
returned.
Both teams travel to 
Brandeis University on Friday 
to continue UAA play.
File photo by Kevin Zheng/Staff Photographer
Junior forward Ben Alderoty positions himself to gain possession of the ball.

---------------------------------------------------

Memphis Hill
The rock band releases their debut 
album, Backwards Beginnings.  B8
Glass Menagerie
The Pittsburgh Public Theater presents 
the Tennessee Williams classic.  B6
10.13.14 Volume 109, Issue 8
Frame Gallery
I <comma> Sincere Animal opens  B5

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Need one more laugh before break? Check out 
the comics.
11
The Tartan. Box 119. UC Suite 103. Carnegie Mellon University. 5000 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, PA 15213. www.thetartan.org.  2014 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Rachel Cohen EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Braden Kelner
PILLBOX EDITOR Joey Peiser ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Jenna Bodnar COMICS EDITOR Maryyann Landlord 
ART EDITOR Michelle Wan PHOTO EDITOR Jonathan Leung 
COPY MANAGER James Wu COVER Courtesy of Memphis Hill
8
45710
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about the 
mysterious Gates helix and how to escape.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Spanish Strings
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra plays a 
special concert featuring Spanish guitar.
3
Miller Gallery
Neurons and Other Memories, a new exhibition 
of student work, premieres at Miller Gallery.
4
The Frame
I <comma> Sincere Animal, a new exhibition of 
student work, premieres at the Frame Gallery.
5
Glass Menagerie
The Pittsburgh Public Theater presents their fall 
production of the Tennessee Williams classic.
6
Freak Show
The fourth season of American Horror Story 
gets off to a strong start.
7
Memphis Hill
A rock band comprised of many Carnegie 
Mellon students releases its debut album.
8
STS9
The popular jamtronica band plays an 
electrifying set at Stage AE. 
10
Puzzles
Dont let your brain fall asleep over break. 
Work these puzzles to stay sharp!
13
Horoscopes
The stars have predictions for your long 
weekend.
14
Calendar
Midsemester break is upon us, so gather 
round and share the tale of this weeks events!
15

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 10.13.143
PSO has hot Spanish date 
Guest guitarist Pablo Villegas brings a charming con?dence
Confession time: I am no music critic. Like most 
people, I listen to music, but I would not consider 
myself to have re?ned taste. So let this serve as 
a disclaimer. I am a classical music fan, not an 
expert. This means I may use amateur language that 
might make music majors cringe. I am a real person 
reviewing real music  thats all.
Last weekend, the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
(PSO) performed a set of three pieces with special 
guest guitarist Pablo Villegas. The evening was titled 
Spanish Strings and was conducted by Omer Meir 
Wellber.
The ?rst piece was Claude Debussys Petite Suite. 
This piece swirled and swayed for the majority of 
its length, but concluded with a IV Ballet that 
refused to be forgotten. The cheerful and joyinducing melody of Debussys IV Ballet captured 
the audience with its catchy tune. This piece was 
a good lead-in to the more specialized taste of the 
second piece of the evening.
The second piece of the night welcomed Villegas to 
assist with Joaquin Rodrigos Concierto de Aranjuez. 
The ?rst section was to basically establish how 
fantastic Villegas is as a guitar player. His ?ngers 
appeared electri?ed as they meticulously slid up and 
down the guitar neck in a basic interaction with the 
orchestra.
It was in the II. Adagio that the ugly disparity of 
the sound between the soulfully played guitar and 
strictly trained orchestral instruments unfolded. 
There was an uncomfortable mix of sound when it 
came to the universally recognized classical sound 
and the culturally speci?c Spanish-sounding guitar.
However, it was in an encore performance that 
Villegas really displayed his talent. He exuded a 
certain con?dence as he strummed along to an 
Argentine song without accompaniment of the PSO, 
which resulted in multiple standing ovations.
Despite all the wonderful music playing, it was 
clear that the centerpiece of the concert was really 
the conductor, Wellber. The Israelis apparent 
enthusiasm for the music is rivaled by few other 
modern conductors. During the third and ?nal piece 
of the night, Piotr Ilyich Tchaikovskys Manfred 
Symphony, Opus 58, Wellber contorted and moved 
with the music as it ?owed from loud to soft, to 
loud again and back to soft. You could hear the 
excitement in his breath as he deeply inhaled with 
anticipation of the fortissimo that was to come in 
between each silence. Wellber exerts himself so 
much that if one were to take away the symphony, 
he would look absolutely deranged.
But at his core, it is plain to see that Wellber, simply 
put, just really loves music. It takes over his entire 
body (he has the physical musicality present in 
Disneys Fantasia 2000). His dedication to music 
is obvious and made me realize that symphonies 
surround us. Of course, there are the ones that 
are composed by Bach and Mozart and Liszt, but 
there are symphonies during intermissions where 
it is mostly a composition of voices, as well as the 
symphonies of honking cars and noisy buses outside 
on the street. It is clear to see that Wellber lives 
in the music and that his attitude is infectious to 
anyone in the audience.
Meredith Newman | Staffwriter
Courtesy of the PSO
Advice for awkward people
Dear Evan,
I finished coding in Gates a couple hours ago  
around 4:30 a.m.  and I wanted to head home to do 
some laundry and play some BioShock, and maybe 
sleep, before my group had to meet for our project 
at 9 a.m. I was working on the fifth floor (the ground 
floor? Sort of?) and I shouldve left by going across the 
rainbow bridge since I need to get to Craig Street, but 
on a whim I decided to leave by way of the helix. It just 
kept traveling down, and I thought it was taking much 
longer than it shouldve. Then the helix ended, and 
suddenly, inexplicably, I was in this huge grassy area 
that Id never seen in my life. Where am I, and how did 
I get here? And how can I make sure to get home so 
that I can have clean underwear for later today?
Disorientedly,
Greatly Unnerved Now Since Dropped Off Nowhere, 
Trying not to Keel, Instead Looking Lamely and 
Ponderously for Escape Options Posthaste, Laundry 
Expressly Called for Since Dubious Olfactory 
Essences Seeping
Dear GUNS DONT KILL PEOPLE, CS DOES,
I feel your pain. Well, no, wait, I dont. Music majors 
like me arent so masochistic  when we go home, we 
actually get some sleep. I guess our quantity of clean 
underwear suffers, but Im going to assume we smell 
better in our natural state than you do.
My grasp on technical terminology is pretty weak, so bear 
with me here. Last year, the Gates helix existed outside 
of our notions of space and time  if you were foolish 
enough to traverse it, youd likely be stuck on it for days, 
along with the packs of wild dogs that roam its heights.
Maintenance must have tried to fix this problem over the 
summer, but like everything that Carnegie Mellon tries 
to fix, it seems to be a botched job. They must have 
redirected the loop to a large space off campus  looks 
like it was probably somewhere in Schenley Park.
That place is huge, so your likelihood of making it home 
in time for laundry is slim to none. Youll have to deal with 
going commando for another day yet.
Have you ever read House of Leaves?
Evan Kahn
Need advice? Send queries to advice@thetartan.org.
About finding your way out of the Gates helix
While the entire PSO shined in this 
weekends performances, it is clear 
that conductor Omer Meir Wellber 
was the key performer.

---------------------------------------------------

4art
pillbox 10.13.14
Its not often that art and science come together, but 
when they do, the result can be beautiful.
The creative fusion of art, science, and even history is 
the concept behind the Miller Gallerys latest exhibit, 
Neurons and Other Memories, which opened on Friday. 
The exhibit is small and understated, taking up only the 
ground ?oor of the Miller Gallerys already modest gallery 
space. The majority of the works line the walls of a small 
rectangular room tucked behind the gallerys entrance.
Within that space, though, is a surprising diversity of 
works. Most pieces are from the 21st century, but other 
selections are centuries old, demonstrating humanitys 
recent history  since the Scienti?c Revolution, it seems 
 of depicting science in visual formats. One such 
selection is an extraction from Diderots Encyclopdie: 
an almost fantastical illustration of a tree-man, branches 
and roots outlining the shape of the man like veins and 
arteries, demonstrating the neural connections that bind 
the body.
The aesthetic highlight of the exhibit is Greg Dunns 
series of four beautiful, shimmering works: Purkinje 
Neurons, Synaptogenesis, Glomerulus, and Retina 
I are enamel depictions of neural connections on leaves 
of gold, copper, and aluminum.
After Dunn completed his Ph.D. in neuroscience at the 
University of Pennsylvania, I devoted my career to 
exploring the intersections between art and science, 
says the piece description. It seems impossible that 
Dunn does not mention any artistic background, though, 
judging by his ability to wring movement, life, and color 
out of his subjects.
Purkinje Neurons illustrates two clusters of neurons 
at opposite ends of the canvas, connected by fragilelooking axons (the spindly tree branch-like arms that 
stretch from the nucleus). Incredibly, the neurons 
appear to be pulling away from each other, their tendrils 
grasping at each other. Their struggle is splayed against 
a backdrop of shimmering, textured copper and gold, 
?ecked with gentle splashes of orange and red.
In Synaptogenesis, tangles of a strange, stringy blue 
foliage rest atop unsteady white trunks, which are 
jagged like lightning. In Glomerulus, nuclei surge 
across the canvas, axons trailing behind, chased by a 
wave of opaque color splashed onto a gold leaf surface. 
And in Retina I, odd rectangular balloons ?oat to the 
top of the canvas, axons hanging and splitting like tree 
roots.
Dunns series is one of the selections that stands on its 
own as notable work, without needing a description 
to justify it. Other works take on an ampli?ed meaning 
when considered in conjunction with their descriptions. 
Erin Crowders Prosopagnosia seems abstract and 
obscure at a surface glance: three slides of a mans 
black-and-white photographed face, the features 
distorted and blurred. Reading the description, however, 
viewers discover that the subject is renowned artist 
Chuck Close, who suffered from prosopagnosia  face 
blindness  and compensated by carefully segmenting 
the human face. The distorting effect of the piece is 
meant to mimic the experience of prosopagnosia using 
an algorithm of the artists creation.
In other works, however, the descriptions try to infuse 
the pieces with a conceptual meaning or complexity that 
doesnt seem present in the stand-alone work. Qiong 
Zhang and Nicolas Kims untitled work, for example, 
is a simple black-and-white snapshot through a tangle 
of tree branches against a whitewash sky. The piece is 
accompanied by a description carrying a lofty, ethereal 
message about the beauty of ecosystems and neural 
connections  a beautiful description, to be sure, but 
one that seems to lie above the conceptual scope of the 
piece itself.
Similarly, JoAnna Commandaross Synesthesia is a 
tangle of wire winding into the shape of a ?ower, atop 
an eerie negative photo of what look like heads from 
Roman sculptures dangling like charms from a chain. 
The description explains the cross-sensory neurological 
phenomenon referenced in the title, but the only 
remotely synesthetic feature of the work seems to be 
the use of different media. The likeness of the piece to a 
synesthetic experience seems a stretch in this instance.
Neurons and Other Memories is a quick, pleasant stop 
for the curious passerby, taking half an hour at most to 
view in its entirety. Though forced or stretched in some 
works, the conceptual and visual links between art 
and science are beautifully evoked on more than a few 
canvases. In this way, its a perfectly appropriate exhibit 
for a Carnegie Mellon gallery, on a campus that promotes 
the intersection of disciplines and doggedly seeks links 
between seemingly unrelated intellectual areas.
Rachel Cohen | Publisher
Neurons and Other Memories will be on view at the 
Miller Gallery through Oct. 26.
Abhinav Gautam | Staff Photographer
Neurons and Other Memories examines interactions 
between art and science, with emphasis on 
history.
Art and science make beautiful collaboration
Neurons and Other Memories exhibit in Miller Gallery evoke connected world

---------------------------------------------------

art
pillbox 10.13.145
I <comma> Sincere Animal rede?nes print media
Exhibit is effectively jarring, but leaves audiences searching for a common thread throughout
Art is an experience that should assault the eyes, 
the ears, and the mind with equal tenacity to make 
audiences feel and react. I <comma> Sincere Animal, 
which premiered on Friday night at The Frame Gallery, 
did just that, with visual, auditory, and kinesthetic 
elements, and more.
At the premiere, there were provocative photographs, 
glitter, jello shots, live performance, blacklight 
confessions, and pizza. What more could one want?
A collaborative work from a class on printmaking, 
I <comma> Sincere Animal combines works from 
sophomore art major Olivia Smith, senior art major Justin 
Old, and junior art majors Coty Vancura, Lindsay Cavallo, 
Heather Cowie, and Paul Alexander Walker.
The artists all created different exhibits that were 
presented in different mediums. Yet all three pieces 
focused on the same theme: extending a written book 
and making it their own, according to the literature 
available at the gallery.
Its a print show where we explore what the de?nitions 
of what print is, Walker said.
On the main ?oor, exhibits by Vancura, Smith, Old, and 
Cavallo greeted visitors, who ranged from children to 
parents over the family weekend.
Vancuras project centered, interestingly, around jello 
shots, each marked with a sticker that read Who dun it? 
with a line. Visitors were to ?nish the shot and then ?ll in 
the dotted line with their name or who they thought was 
to blame.
According to Vancura, the shots and the mystery 
represent his violently dynamic relationship with a girl 
named Cece.
Theyre all memories; this one is when Cece and I went 
to see Lemuria in concert. She got wasted on jello shots, 
and told me that she had been cheating on me with 
some other guys. So the whole rest of that issue I was 
trying to ?gure out Who dun it?, like whose fault was 
it that she cheated and that our relationships got real 
f***** up? said Vancura.
In a corner of the exhibit, a nest of childrens toys and 
random scraps of paper seemed wistful and abandoned, 
but shortly after, Cavallo settled into the center to 
perform her piece.
Crouching in the center of the bed of garbage and 
seemingly meaningless material, Cavallo made gagging 
noises, sticking her own hands into her mouth for several 
minutes until she seemed to be satis?ed, then simply got 
up, wiped her hands on her jeans, and walked into the 
crowd of people watching her.
Downstairs, in an area that is typically not used by 
artists displaying their work at The Frame, Walkers 
piece was striking and meaningful. Throughout the 
upper exhibit, Walker distributed pamphlets about 
different types of touch, featuring photographs of himself 
with glitter in the different places that would indicate 
different levels of intimacy. The last pamphlet, entitled 
Intimate Touch was accompanied by Walker himself, 
caked in glitter and sitting on a red couch, smiling 
invitingly. Viewers were supposed to grab a wipe, wipe 
some of the glitter off of Walkers body, and then stick the 
wipe to the wall.
Im working with the concept of leaving a mark on 
someone elses body. I really dont know anything about 
printmaking, but I wanted to work with intimate touch 
from someone else. Having people remove the touch 
from me makes it extremely intimate, Walker said.
In the upper room, an exhibit by Cowie featured a room 
lit only by black lights. The walls were painted with 
green, black light paint in order to convey a child-like 
voice describing their dreams. Cowie sat in the middle 
and read passages from a whimsical, yet dark childs 
diary.
Overall, the exhibit was jarring. There were whimsical 
elements, but often, they were unclear and too 
ambiguous for people who didnt know the artists to 
interpret.
The space, however, is used as effectively as possible, 
and the commotion outside was certainly indicative of 
the success of the exhibits inside.
Laura Scherb | Operations Manager
Kevin Zheng | Staff Photographer
Walkers performance concentrated on showcasing different types of touch. Here, he represented intimate touch 
by asking visitors to use a wipe to remove glitter from his body to represent leaving a mark on someone elses 
body.

---------------------------------------------------

6theater
pillbox 10.13.14
To celebrate its 40th anniversary, the Pittsburgh Public 
Theater opened its season on Oct. 2 with the same 
play it opened its doors with 40 years ago: Tennessee 
Williams The Glass Menagerie.
The Glass Menagerie tells the story of a disjointed 
family of three. Breaking under the tedium of a 
monotonous life, Tom dreams of abandoning his 
sister, Laura, and mother, Amanda Wing?eld, to 
seek adventure as his father did, while his mother 
tries desperately to ?nd a suitor for his mentally and 
physically frail sister.
There are no new character interpretations in this 
production, but Cathryn Wake and Jordan Whalen 
are satisfactory as Laura and The Gentleman Caller, 
respectively. The most problematic character (Tom) is 
played by Fisher Neal, whose rigid in?ection erases the 
sincerity from his words; however, his performance, as 
well as all the other cast members, is elevated by the 
dynamic performance by Lynne Wintersteller (Amanda, 
the mother). With a fast and sharp southern accent, 
Wintersteller brings depth to a character that is usually 
de?ned solely for being unable to move past her glory 
days of young. 
She not only exempli?es a nostalgic woman past 
her prime, but makes the audience believe that her 
character does truly care about her children.
Winterstellers success is only matched by the design 
team of this production. The set is the ?rst ?oor of a 
house, raised on a jarring octagonal platform that hints 
at future dissonance. At ?rst, the house seems inviting, 
but upon further inspection one can see that the 
furniture is mismatched, there is a stain on the couch, 
and the pillows are ornate, but raggedy. It is as if the 
family is trying too desperately to cover up household 
?aws, especially in the second act; when more stuff 
 a fringed ?oor lamp, a silver candlestick on top of a 
disproportionally small dining table, a rug that quite 
literally covers another rug up  is added, it is obvious 
that this family has something to hide.
While there was no new revelation at the end of this 
production, it is a solid performance worth seeing. 
The Pittsburgh Public Theater decided to honor 
the American classic that was the ?rst show it ever 
produced, and it does so with dignity and success.
Vira Shao | Junior Staffwriter
Pittsburgh Public Theaters production of The Glass 
Menagerie runs from Oct. 2 to Nov. 2. Student tickets (26 
and younger) are available on select nights for $15.75; 
valid ID is required.
Pittsburgh Public Theater stages Williams classic
The Glass Menagerie is revisited, although with very few innovations despite the set
Courtesy of the Pittsburgh Public Theater
Laura (Cathryn Wake) plays a frail and emotional girl who is called upon by The Gentleman Caller (Jordan Whalen) in 
one of the Pittsburgh Public Theaters productions most powerful character pairings.
Tom (Fisher Neal) and his mother Amanda (Lynne 
Wintersteller) contemplate their familys fragile 
situation in Tennesse Williams classic play.
Courtesy of the Pittsburgh Public Theater

---------------------------------------------------

television
pillbox 10.13.147
Note: This article contains spoilers for American Horror 
Story: Freak Show, as well as previous seasons of the 
series.
Whats scarier than a killer clown with a smile plastered 
on its face creeping through your house at night?
Answer: A killer clown violently stabbing your signi?cant 
other in a grassy ?eld in broad daylight.
American Horror Story, the brainchild of creators Ryan 
Murphy and Brad Falchuk, returned on Wednesday for 
its fourth season, Freak Show, delivering what promises 
to be a darker season, a welcome change in tone in 
comparison to the anthologys third season, Coven.
Taking place in Jupiter, Fla. in the 1950s during one of 
the last freak shows in America, Freak Show gives fans 
across the web who have been clamoring for a circusthemed season exactly what theyve wanted. Filled with 
redand white-striped carnival tents, carousels, and 
Ferris wheels, the show possesses a pop and pizazz not 
seen in other seasons of the anthology series. There is 
singing, confetti, and people, albeit very few, fawning 
over the freaks who call the carnival their home.
Despite the showtime feel, Freak Show is notably darker 
than Coven, which followed young witches as they 
trained in a boarding school to become the Supreme 
witch. Freak Shows darkness is somewhere between 
the third season and the second, which was set in 
an asylum and completely unforgiving to viewers not 
attuned to horror. The fourth season, while more brutal 
than the third season, has time to deliver jokes (like 
bad singing) and present a sense of wonder around the 
freak show, rather than the immediate sense of horror 
presented in Asylum, in which the opening scene ended 
with a man getting his arm torn off.
One of the most spectacular elements of this new season 
is the unusual people who inhabit the screen. No one 
is without a deformity or alteration to their body, and 
almost everybody seems to embrace it. A bearded 
woman, Ethel Darling, played by Kathy Bates, is righthand woman to the shows leader, German expat Elsa 
Mars (Jessica Lange). The two do everything in their 
power to keep the freak show operating; its clear within 
the ?rst episode that many of the freaks consider the 
show home, including Darling. Among the rest of the 
family of freaks is the worlds smallest woman who is, in 
fact, played by the worlds smallest woman, Jyoti Amge, 
as well as a man with arms that are not fully formed, a 
man who eats animal heads straight off the living body, 
and Pepper (Naomi Grossman), who avid viewers will 
be happy to know is back from Asylum in the same role. 
Grossman is the only actor or actress to date to be in two 
seasons of the show playing the same character.
The standout freak of the family, though, is the newest 
addition to the show, conjoined twins Bette and Dot 
Tattler, played by Sarah Paulson. In Dot and Bette, 
Paulson delivers two distinct characters. Bette is full of 
wonder and joy, willing to share her thoughts with others 
and handle what is thrown her way thus far in the show. 
Meanwhile, Dot describes the freak show as the gates 
of hell and refuses to succumb to Mars attempts to 
connect with her. Mars ?nds Dot and Bette after they 
are admitted to the hospital for reasons youll have to 
?nd out by watching yourself! Paulson masterfully plays 
these characters in stark contrast to one another to show 
how, despite being joined at the neck, they are distinctly 
different.
However, Paulson doesnt completely steal the show.  
That award belongs to Twisty the Clown. Co-creator 
Murphy promised fans before the show aired that 
Twisty would be the scariest clown viewers have 
ever witnessed, and so far, hes right. Its undeniably 
terrifying to watch a clown murder the people of the 
town. Whats even more terrifying is that Twisty seems 
to be acting this way because he wants to be accepted, 
or at least wants company. The clown watches the freaks 
longingly from afar at one point while they perform an 
act similar to his murders, and he even kidnaps some of 
his victims.
While the show is off to a strong start, viewers wont 
truly know which direction the show is headed until at 
least the next episode. The season preview, which plays 
at the end of the ?rst episode, promises a minimum 
of four additional characters, including con artists, a 
three-breasted woman, and a strong man. And with a 
murderous clown whose intentions are not known, the 
terror could go anywhere.
If it heads in the direction it is going now (glamour 
with a brutal edge), this season will be one of the 
more dynamic of the anthology. And unlike the last 
season (whose only mystery was Who will be the next 
Supreme?), this season seems to have a great mystery 
surrounding Twisty. First, what does he want? Second, 
who is he? If the show maintains this mystery, it will 
keep viewers coming back for more like it did with the 
unknown Rubber Man of the ?rst season (Murder House) 
and the gory mask-covered Bloody Face of the second 
season. The identities of both monsters were revealed 
later in the season, leading to intriguing plots. Heres 
hoping that this season of American Horror Story will 
keep coming back with horror that toes the line and a 
mystery that isnt solved too soon.
Braden Kelner | Editor-in-Chief
American Horror Story gets even freakier
The shows fourth season, Freak Show, is a welcome return to the dark tone of earlier ones
The title sequence of this years American Horror 
Story is a series of creepy stop-motion creatures that 
are sure to haunt your nighttime dreams.
Photo courtesy of SuperStitchieux via Wikimedia Commons

---------------------------------------------------

feature
pillbox 10.13.1498feature
pillbox 10.13.14
As I walk up the steep steps to Memphis Hills precariously 
perched house not far from campus, clutching a hastilybought box of chocolates that I hope no one notices is from 
the CVS next door, I stop for a moment in front of the door 
to admire the feel of the house. Lawn chairs with crushed 
beer cans, a classic round grill  it all looks like a scene 
ripped from a southern frat house.
Hours before the release party for their debut album 
Backwards Beginnings, I knock on the painted front door, to 
see a smiling man in ridiculously amazing dreadlocks and 
large rimmed hipster glasses greet me  Memphis Hills 
drummer, chemistry masters student Collin Cherubim, 
who explains that the band is waiting for a shipment of 
their album (also available for streaming on SoundCloud). 
After hasty introductions, Im shown into the bands house 
 a collage of original artwork painted by the bands close 
friends decorate almost every wall, culminating in a visually 
insane community art project. Blues-rock artist Gary 
Clark Jr. is playing in the background, the distorted guitar 
contrasting with a smooth and measured voice.
Over the four hours or so Ive spent talking with the 
members, going to their show, and listening to their debut 
album, its clear that, above all, Memphis Hills greatest 
asset is their fans. With a dedicated core of close friends 
cooking together, doing homework, going to all the shows, 
as well as creating insanely good artwork for the walls, 
shirts, album covers, and posters, Memphis Hill is a ?veperson band only by technicality. But damn are those ?ve 
people talented.
Im shortly introduced to guitarist Mac Inglis, who is 
wearing a skintight jet black bicycling out?t; guitarist Vic 
Cherubim (who would look startlingly like his brother, if 
Collin would swap some of his dreadlock length for facial 
hair); bassist Alex Holloway, a senior cognitive science 
major whose long blonde hair and disarming smile carries 
an overwhelming sense of good-will; and ?nally, female 
vocalist Elle Allen, a masters mechanical engineering 
student who at one time split her time between singing, 
building race cars, creating robots, and grad-level research.
An interesting cast to say the least, and indeed, while 
talking with them, I began to see the dynamics at play 
within the band: Macs charming sense of humor, Collins 
irresistible boy-next-door friendliness, Alexs analytical 
and thoughtful answers to questions the rest of the band 
had trouble answering, Elles warm laugh that would melt 
Frosty the Snowman, and of course Vics oddly musing 
proclamations that are hard to not good-naturedly make fun 
of. At one point, after asking whether the members college 
educations impacted their music in any way (hoping to ?sh 
out a story where Elle ?xed a guitar pedal or something), 
Vic uttered the sentence, What you do is who you are. 
Who you are is what you do. The music you make is 
coming from you, man (Ok, I added the man at the end, 
but still). My ?rst thought was, Wait, seriously? followed 
by, Thats actually a good point, and Im de?nitely going to 
quote that.
The band later took me down to their practice area in the 
basement. An organ that the band bought on Craigslist 
stood by the left wall, and they informed me of a period 
of time when they had a 50-year-old man drive from an 
hour-and-a-half away to jam on the organ with them. 
Surprisingly, that deal didnt work out for too long, and so 
the organ remains unused (and if anyone reading this can 
play a killer organ and likes blues rock, I encourage you to 
seek the band out). The lighting of the basement looks like 
an authentic replica of a Snoop Dogg (Lion?) music video, 
with deep purple shades and a single bright light accenting 
Memphis Hills signature mermaid logo on Collins drumset. 
I never got the chance to ask them why they chose a 
mermaid of all things, but the logo is amazing, with the 
mermaids entire body formed out of the letters Memphis 
Hill in psychedelic 60s font (if anyone has a better name 
for the font that Jimi Hendrix used for his album Are You 
Experienced, Im open to suggestions). The name of the 
band itself, Memphis Hill, comes from one of its biggest 
supporters who Im told is a Garden Fairy. A beacon of 
light that shines down on all of the band and a savior of 
childrens lives. Sounds like a cool person.
As I stood there listening to the bands jam sessions 
straight off the machine while scribbling in my notebook, 
I pondered the musical style of Memphis Hill. They have a 
wide range of musical styles, ranging from alternative rock, 
to more blues rock, to psychedelic, and more. Hearing their 
improvised session, its clear that, above all, the band has 
a clear sense of musical space. The guitar and drumming 
fade when Elle picks up the tempo of her vocals. When she 
subsides again, Collin picks up a syncopated rhythm, and 
Mac adapts with a wailing, distorted lick. Its truly amazing 
to see the sheer musical talent the band possesses, 
especially with their cumulative history of rejecting 
classical and formal training.
Collins love for the drums started at an early age (I actually 
started off with the accordion, he joked), but he traded in 
rote memorization of rudiments for jamming out to 80s hair 
metal with a more  alternative teacher. Alex has a similar 
Mermaids, sick drum beats, and dreadlocks
A night with Memphis Hill as they prepare to release their debut album, Backwards Beginnings 
Memphis Hill celebrated the official release of their 
debut album, Backwards Beginnings, with a concert 
and album release party last Friday at the AVA Cafe 
and Lounge.
                  Sid Bhaduria | Junior Photogerapher
by Sid Bhaduria | Staffwriter[]
history, having been involved with violin and trumpet, and 
then falling off with music until he became roommates 
with Collin his ?rst year at Carnegie Mellon. Hes only 
been playing for four years, and while his bass lines arent 
too complex, theyre driving, and most importantly, they 
synergize with Collins drumming almost seamlessly (moral 
of the story  its never too late to pick up an instrument!).
Elle also got started taking classical voice lessons early on, 
but moved on to rock, jazz, and, now, whatever she feels 
like. Listening from the machine, I was impressed with her 
vocal range, tone, and ability to improvise syllables and 
sounds that mesh with the rest of the band. Perhaps the 
most surprising element of the recording I listened to was 
when Vic moved from lead guitar to sort of a supporting 
role, Mac sometimes stepped up with a rather surprising 
repertoire. For someone who wears ?annel shirts with 
suspenders, he can improvise some startlingly good and 
varied rhythms, ranging from Led Zeppelin-like wailing 
to eastern-Arabian sounding rhythms. As awesome as 
hearing the machine was, I was eager to listen to the real 
deal. Plus, my time with the band was way longer than 
I thought it would be, and I was really late for Concepts 
of Math. So, fashioning a short excuse that the band 
understood like only a band composed of Carnegie Mellon 
students would, I made my way back down the steep steps, 
counting down the hours until their album release concert 
at AVA Cafe and Lounge.
The ?rst thing I noticed walking into the lounge was the 
crowd. I had heard about the bands loyal fan base before, 
but watching everyone in the room, it was almost trivially 
easy to pick them out. They were the ones 
jamming out the hardest, the ones at the 
very front talking with their other friends 
who theyve been coming to Memphis Hill 
concerts with for almost two years. Theyre 
the ones who stayed even after the band 
exhausted their repertoire of original songs, 
the ones who still screamed for an encore 
anyway, the ones who refused to leave even 
as the band went over their allotted time, the 
ones who were there for one purpose only: to 
support their favorite band.
They were fun people, and I didnt feel like 
an outsider for a second. I vaguely remember 
jamming out with a cute girl over Collins 
ridiculously good drumming (seriously, 
imagine someone with the speed of a punk 
rock drummer, but who actually knows how to 
play more than one thing and can switch from 
metal thrashing to syncopated blues at the 
drop of a hat), watching as Vic nonchalantly 
shredded the guitar with the facial expression 
of someone ordering a coffee at Starbucks, 
some girl putting a ridiculously large cowboy 
hat on my head that wasnt mine, then 
dancing with some dude who was wearing 
a red dress for some odd reason, staring at a 
picture of an octopus being shot in the head 
for like ?ve minutes straight to the tune of one 
of Memphis Hills psychedelic numbers, and 
discussing why Doolittle was The Pixies best album at the 
bar. I had a good time, is 
what Im saying. After the 
show, Vic was gracious 
enough to invite me to the 
after party, but as soon as I 
headed home, I felt so tired 
I passed out as soon as I 
hit the bed, ears pleasantly 
ringing, with a Memphis 
Hill T-shirt and poster in 
my hands.
Its hard to say anything 
bad about the band, 
considering the fact that 
theyre awesome people 
and insanely talented, 
but the fact remains that 
Memphis Hill has a long 
way to go if theyre looking 
to get even bigger. The 
songs are good, great 
even, but on each song, I 
cant get over making the 
obvious connections to 
the sounds of other bands. 
Much of this can be traced 
back to their creative 
process. They take their 
improvised jams (clocking 
in at over nine minutes) 
and cut the parts they 
dont like. Their ?rst album 
consists simply of the ?rst eight ?nished songs they had, 
and indeed the band members themselves disagree on the 
direction their sound is evolving.
While Mac, for example, believes that the band is heading 
toward a more roots rock vibe, and away from the softer 
tracks found on their debut album, every band member has 
a different opinion. As Collin aptly pointed out, the inherent 
diversity of the bands musical backgrounds is both a 
strength and a weakness. Between the members of the 
band, they have the elements to create a unique Memphis 
Hill sound. For example, I wish Mac would have included 
some of the more esoteric melodies from the recorded jams 
they showed me on the album. I want to hear Elle singing 
in an Ella Fitzgerald voice over Arabian guitars. Most of 
all, I wish more songs featured Collin. Truly the heart of 
the band, on their best songs like the song I Feel You 
Sweet Thing, an apt listener could accurately guess the 
entire bands movement at a given point in time solely by 
listening to Collins rhythmic tendencies. I want to hear 
the bands psychedelic tendencies more, and while Elles 
singing is often so good I dont care, an evolution of the 
bands lyrical songwriting could be used.
In summary, perhaps the best thing the Memphis Hill 
band can do right now is nominate one of their own to be 
their producer for the entire album to develop a unique, 
marketable Memphis Hill sound. The band can go a 
long way in getting another instrument, like the organ or 
perhaps a trumpet. Dont let this deter you from listening, 
however. Memphis Hill is a band to keep your eye on, and 
their musical talent and potential is undeniable. Support 
them by spreading the word about Backwards Beginnings, 
available on SoundCloud and CD, and by coming to their 
next show on Nov. 14 with Beauty Slap.
 
 
Fifth Avenue Homes and Estates 
 
Purchase Your Home   ~   Sell Your Home 
 
Serving the University Community for 
 all their Real Estate Needs 
 
 www.FifthAvenueHomesAndEstates.com  
 
 www.PittsburghRealestate888.com    
 
 
412-683-3333 
Photo courtesy of Memphis Hill

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 10.13.14
On Friday, jamtronica group Sound Tribe Sector 9 (STS9) 
performed at Stage AE, playing two full sets and a ?vesong encore that lasted until nearly 1 a.m. This stop, 
the second on the bands fall tour, and their ?rst full tour 
featuring new bassist Alana Rocklin, proved the band is 
reaching for new heights in their live show, and to great 
success.
Formed in Atlanta in 1999, STS9 has grown in the 
past 15 years to become one of the most celebrated 
live shows in music today, ranking among Pollstar 
Magazines list of top-grossing touring acts. Mixing 
live rock instrumentation with electronics, the band 
describes their sound as post-rock dance music. The 
band underwent a massive change earlier this year with 
the departure of founding member and bassist David 
Murphy. Many fans questioned the future of the band, as 
Murphy was considered an integral aspect of both the 
bands sound and live performances. Rocklin, however, 
certainly proved herself during the bands run of music 
festivals this past summer, and STS9 has actually begun 
transitioning between songs without stopping the ?ow 
of the music  an idea which had never occurred to 
Murphy.
Friday nights show at Stage AE was a near-perfect 
exhibition of the group, with both sets spanning the 
entirety of the groups diverse catalogue of sounds and 
genres. The ?rst set was geared toward hardcore fans, 
with many down-tempo songs and extended jams. It 
included an opening of the grooving bass track 4 Year 
Puma played into F Word.
Other highlights of the ?rst set included The Rabble, 
a song that mixes elements of rock and dub-electronica 
to create a truly awesome live experience, and the 
set closer, Circus, which is often cited as the bands 
signature tune  with good reason. The song is 10 
minutes of pure bliss, with guitarist Hunt Browns 
?ngers dancing up and down the fret board, eliciting tiny 
explosions of joy with each note. I strongly recommend 
looking up a recording of the band performing the song 
live  STS9 posts soundboard recordings of all of their 
concerts on the Internet for fans to download  if youre 
ever looking to signi?cantly brighten your day.
After a short set break, the band returned and played 
a second set that was much more evocative of their 
recent dive into heavier electronica. Songs such as 
Golden Gate and World Go Round with their funky 
grooves and cheerful tones, are staples of their festival 
performances. When The Dust Settles, with its low and 
droning synthesizers and digitized vocals, had the room 
feeling like a 90s warehouse rave  ?ashing, colorful 
strobe lights included.
The encore was a real treat, and included Annie Clark 
performing two songs on an upright bass as part of the 
bands Axe The Cable segment  wherein they play 
without using synthesizers and other heavily-electronic 
equipment. Essentially, they play as a rock group. The 
band played through ?ve songs, and were setting up 
to play a sixth, when the venue turned the lights on, 
making it clear that 12:45 a.m. was late enough.
One important thing to note is that in the ?rst two stops 
of the bands fall tour, they did not repeat a single song. 
A person I spoke to after the ?rst set proclaimed that 
hed seen the band four times in the past year, and had 
not heard a single song the band had just played live 
before. That just speaks to the amount of dedication and 
effort STS9 puts into their live performances and overall 
musicianship. While big-name tours, such as the Jay-Z 
and Beyonce On The Run tour over the summer may 
have grand production values, theyre not all that hard 
to pull off. It doesnt take much of a performer to play the 
same exact show every single night, singing the same 
songs in the same order, and stopping at the same point 
to ask (Insert city name here) how you feelin tonight? 
Its all one mass-produced product, like Dominos Pizza, 
except it costs you about a hundred dollars a ticket for 
the nosebleeds. STS9, however, ensures that every slice 
of the tour has its own special ?avor, and its this kind 
of commitment that creates a rabid loyalty in their fan 
base. STS9 fans, like the fabled Deadheads of old, travel 
far and wide to hit every stop of the tour that they can, 
because its always worth the journey.
Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
STS9 entrances audience with two full sets
Top-grossing tour act plays unique, nonstop music in a classically joyful concert until 1 a.m.
STS9, a post-rock dance music group performed at Stage AE on Friday. The band performed their lengthy, 
ambient, and unique music until nearly 1 a.m., when the venue turned on the lights to ask them to wrap it up. 
Courtesy of Marc Whitman via Flickr

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 10.13.1411
Extra Ordinary by Li Chen
email@exocomics.comexocomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 10.13.14
For the Sake of Arguing by xkcd
press@xkcd.comxkcd.com
How Hollywood Converts Novels into Movies by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 10.13.1413
Solutions from Oct. 6
CrosswordSuper Tough DifficultyTough Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Maze Puzzle: Challenging Difficulty
Maze courtesy of www.krazydad.comKakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.
Start from the center arrow of the maze and find your way 
out to the other arrow.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 10.13.14
 1. Bruins great Bobby
 2. Very cold
 3. K-O connection
 4. Distinctive
 5. Roof flue
 6. Old Testament book
 7. Wall St. debuts
 8. Three sheets to the wind
 9. Brutal
10. Strain
11. Describe
12. Toward the mouth
13. Congers
19. Center starter
21. Bran source
23. Ring of color
24. Land, as a fish
25. Bobbin
26. Dice game
27. Shooting sport
29. The Raven maiden
30. About
31. Israels Shimon
34. Extreme
40. Most strange
41. Ore refinery
42. Blind
43. Tumultuous
47. Extra-wide shoe size
49. Occurrence
50. Battery type
51. Wife of a rajah
52. Deck quartet
53. Pest control brand
54. Nabokov novel
56. Pub pint
58. Chat room chuckle
59. Downed
60. Craving
 1. Lubricates
 5. Hot stuff
10. Plumlike fruit
14. Dudley Do-Rights org.
15. Drivers invitation
16. Make weary
17. Sandberg of baseball
18. Occurring at constant 
temperature
20. Shows up
22. Overturns
23. Richards of Jurassic Park
25. Struck, old-style
26. Bring into being
27. Pampering place
28. Put your hands together
32. Winder for holding flexible 
material
33. Klondike territory
35. Roll call call
36. Youve got mail co.
37. Composer Delibes
38. Neithers partner
39. Ballet bend
41. Stone marker
43. Pouting grimace
44. All there
45. Mohawk-sporting actor
46. Pines for
48. Perlman of Cheers
50. Required
51. Like some tires
54. Stacked
55. Approval
57. Now ___ me down...
61. Revivalists
62. Inventor Howe
63. Short letter
64. _____ She Lovely?
65. Tears
66. Secluded spot 
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
You will spend over $200 on energy drinks at Entropy. 
Unfortunately, that much Red Bull will not help you on your 
midterms.
taurus
april 20may 20
If youre Irish, youve got the Irish luck! Otherwise its time to 
play some Russian Roulette. 
gemini
may 21june 21
If you pass 100 levels of Candy Crush, your test will also be 
crushed.
cancer
june 22july 22
Be on the look out for something surprising! After this 
unexpected encounter youll have a different opinion on 
midterms.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Dont eat pizza; It will give you a stomach ache and you 
wont be able to take your tests anymore
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
The forth iteration of Super Smash Bros. is coming out. 
Dont get too hooked; youll become a competitive pro 
gamer and miss your midterms.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Youve worked long and hard for these tests, and your 
results will show how much its paid off. Now you can rest 
easy for the mid-semester break.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Bite the bedbugs; Itll give you good luck on your next test.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Sagittarians are known for their gentle nature  midterms, 
however, are not. Go hard or go home. 
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
Youll meet a man with brown hair, glasses, and a skinny 
build. He will help you study. Find him.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Forget midterms. Lets go have a pool party instead at the 
University Center. Midterms dont matter anyways.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Looks like your luck wasnt as good as you thought; That 
late night studying wasnt so worth it after all. Better luck 
next time.
Maryyann Landlord | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com
Midterm Predictions 

---------------------------------------------------

calendar 
pillbox 10.13.1415
Monday 10.13.14
OK Go. Mr. Smalls Theatre. 8 p.m.
Remember that awesome video where a bunch of guys 
did a synchronized dance on treadmills? Well, that music 
video was for OK Gos Here It Goes Again, and theyre 
playing at Mr. Smalls. Cant guarantee theyll bring the 
treadmills, but theyll de?nitely bring the indie-pop. Tickets 
can be purchased at ticket?y.com.
Tuesday 10.14.14
Fleetwood Mac. CONSOL Energy Center. 8 p.m.
Your parents favorite band    and maybe yours, theyre 
really good  are playing at CONSOL. Expect a lot of 
middle-aged dancing, and de?nitely some tears when 
Stevie Nicks sings Landslide. Tickets can be purchased 
at ticketmaster.com.
Boombox. Rex Theater. 8 p.m.
This funky electronic and rock duo will be bringing fresh 
jams to the Rex. Expect corny dancing, and plenty of it. 
Tickets can be purchased at ticket?y.com.
Wednesday 10.15.14
Bassnectar. Stage AE. 8 p.m.
The king of the sound will be bringing his immersive 
live experience, including more speakers than a 
Bose warehouse and an LED screen larger than the 
ones in Times Square (okay, maybe thats a bit of an 
exaggeration), to Stage AE. Expect to see brains on the 
?oor from the number of minds blown. Tickets can be 
purchased at stubhub.com or through Carnegie Mellon 
Facebook networks.
J Mascis. Club Caf. 8 p.m.
The Dinosaur Jr. frontman will be playing a solo show at 
Club Caf. Expect to see hipsters of all ages standing still 
together. Tickets can be purchased at ticket?y.com.
Friday 10.17.14
SPANK! The Fifty Shades Parody. Byham Theater. 
8 p.m.
This hilarious new musical reimagines the characters of 
the popular novel with sharp comedy, musical numbers, 
and other surprises. Tickets can be purchased at 
trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
The Gaslight Anthem. Stage AE. 7 p.m.
These Jersey punk rockers have reached the pinnacle 
of Garden State musical success  counting Bruce 
Springsteen as a fan  so you know theyre worth 
checking out. Folk-punk act Against Me!, who have been 
undergoing a resurgence in popularity following lead 
singer Laura Jane Graces coming out as transgender, will 
be opening. Tickets can be purchased at ticketmaster.
com.
Saturday 10.18.14
Fall Festival. Heinz Hall. 8 p.m.
Join the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra in a celebration 
of autumn. Playing songs inspired by the changing of the 
leaves, including Harrys Wondrous World from Harry 
Potter and the Sorcerors Stone and selections featured 
in Disneys Fantasia, this evening is sure to delight 
one more than a pumpkin spice latte. Tickets can be 
purchased at trustarts.culturualdistrict.org.
tUnE-yArDs. Mr Smalls Theatre. 8 p.m.
The quirky musical project of songwriter Merril Garbus will 
be performing at Mr. Smalls. When playing live, Garbus 
creates drum loops on the spot and adds layers of 
multiple instruments, including ukulele, electric bass, and 
vocals. So it should be an interesting show. Tickets can 
be purchased at ticket?y.com.
Ongoing
The Glass Menagerie. OReilly Theater. Through Nov. 2.
The Pittsburgh Public Theater presents the Tennessee 
Williams classic, inspired by his own life and mentally 
fragile family. Tickets start at $15.75 for students and 
anyone under the age of 26. Tickets can be purchased at 
trustarts.culturaldistrict.org.
Chuck Connelly: My America. The Andy Warhol 
Museum. Through Jan. 4.
As part of the 2014 Pittsburgh Biennial, the Warhol is 
presenting works from Pittsburgh native and surrealist 
painter Chuck Connelly. Admission to the museum is free 
with a Carnegie Mellon student ID.
The 13 Most Wanted Men. The Andy Warhol Museum. 
Through Jan. 4.
This exhibit explores a controversy Warhol ignited at the 
1964 New York Worlds Fair, when he expanded and 
displayed mug shots from NYPD records of the 13 most 
wanted men of 1962. Admission to the museum is free 
with a Carnegie Mellon student ID.
Compiled by Joey Peiser | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16feature
pillbox 10.13.14
Kevin Zheng | Staff Photographer
Top: On Tuesday, Eastend Mile, a jazz/indie fusion band based in 
Pittsburgh performed in the Underground as a part of the AB Concerts 
series. Bottom left: Roger Romero, band co-founder, wailed on the 
saxophone. Bottom right: Guitarist Drew Santa slammed a solo. 
eastend mile.
