Volume 92, Issue 8Carnegie Mellon University's Student Newspaper Since 190627 October 1997
IFC rejects ATO 
bid to recolonize
By MICHELLE HAN colonizing CMU and their offer
Tartan Junior Staffwriter to give financial support, said 
Aaron Baldwin, ATO chapter 
National fraternity Alpha advisor at Duquesne UniverTau Omegas (ATO) bid to resity as well as providence di
gain Greek recognition after rector to chapters within refour years was rejected at a gional areas and member of 
recent Interfratrnity Counthe National Board of Direccil meeting. Council members tors for ATO. 
ruled that space restrictions We would like to come 
and lack of student interest back to the campus where we 
in the group did not warrant have a long and rich history, 
the addition of another frasaid Baldwin, 
ter ni ty to Greek life. Originally established at
The basic fears expressed CMU in 1923, ATO boasted 
in the Council were the lack of more than 1200 members over
We would like to come back to 
the campus where we have a long 
and rich history. 
 Aaron Baldwin 
ATO chapter advisor
strong numbers, said Eric its 70-year history on campus. 
Grant, Interfraternity CounThey hope to regain their 
cil president. Presently there position on campus as long 
isnt aninterest-group.. . there' .as the - addition'1'- of another 
[are] only alumni. fraternity would not adThe fraternitys campus versely affect Greek life, 
housing facilities were reBaldwin said, 
voked in the spring of 1993 for As a member of the Naa string of infractions, includtional Board, we do not intend 
ing disorderly conduct when to come back until the UniverATO members got into a fight sity feels there is space availwith members of another fraable, said Baldwin, 
ternity. After repeated warnDean Allison, the Greek life 
ings by Dean of Student Afcoordinator in Student Af
fairs Michael Murphy, the fifairs, said that Baldwin and 
nal straw came when memthe rest of the ATO alumni 
bers threw snowballs out of have been very respectful of 
the fraternity house window Interfraternity Council and 
and injured a passerby, the existing Greek life conShortly after having their cerning this request to be 
housing revoked, their nagranted recognition, 
tional charter was revoked as Its my belief that ATO could 
well, effectively disbanding convince the campus that their 
the group. presence would be beneficial to
But alumni continue to have the campus, said Grant. The 
strong ties to their fraternity Interfraternity Council is 
and campus and meet regularly happy that ATO is being coopto discuss their interest in rePlease see ATO, page 3
Walking on air...
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Jackie Kent, a freshman design major, attempts to traverse the great hall in CFA 
on Thursday. Students spent three long weeks building 51 cardboard vehicles.
Inside
IFCrejFctttttt
ICFssATArjtttt
IObAisttttttttt
dAorcsAOesttt
lAoAentttttttttt
zOcSbttttttttttt
uLOcfsttttttttttt
Forum
Stop whining! 
 see page 7
Living
Explore African culture 
 see page LI
courtesy of Hafeez Raji
Sports
Football wins in OT 
 see page 14THE TARTAN
Wean ignites from propane spill
Roof catches fire; workers suffer second-degree burns
Wean Hall was evacuated by firefighters and
Michelle Ungerer/Tartan Photo Staff 
fire Wednesday afternoon. Two roofers were Injured in the flames.
By SHARMILA 
VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Students and faculty were 
forced to end classes early and 
evacuate Wean Hall last 
Wednesday after a fire began on 
the roof. The building was evacu
ated at approximately 5 pm af
ter a propane tank fell over.
Five roofers were iri the middle 
of repairs when the tank came in 
contact with a torch they were 
using, said Don Hale, vice presi
dent of public relations. Students 
in front of Hunt Library reported 
seeing large flames arid billows 
of smoke coming from the 
buildings rooftop.
I was more impressed by 
the black smoke and the tar
odor than the flames, said 
Amanda Spear, a senior En
glish major. The flames were 
really short lived.
Two workers from Triangle 
Roofing suffered second de
gree burns and were taken.to 
West Penn Hospital.
The building was re
opened by 7 pm.
I was riding the bus up Forbes
Avenue when I saw the flames 
on top of the building. I got off 
the bus and tried to call 911 from 
Warner Hall, but they wouldnt 
let me ue the phone. But some
one had already called [emer
gency] by then, said Madelyn 
Miller from environmental and 
health safety. At first when I 
saw the policemen I thought 
Please see FIRE, page 3
Student Life official resigns from post
userte Miner-uixon/uarKroom Manager 
Allison Riley has announced her resignation 
after four years of service in Student Life.
By DANIEL ARP
Tartan News Editor
Allison Riley, associate director of Stu
dent Life and director of student develop
ment, has announced she will resign her 
position at the end of this semester. Riley is 
.moving to Boston where her husband has 
acquired a job with Bay Networks.
The thing that Im going to leave here 
knowing is that I was able to make a difference 
in the time that I was here, and I leave here 
having developed meaningful relationships 
with faculty, staff, and students, said Riley.
Her responsibilities have included coordi
nating development of first-year student 
programs, family programs, community ser
vice, and judicial affairs, as well as fostering 
leadership and personal development among 
students.
Allison Riley is an exceptional individual, 
said Michael Murphy, dean of Student Af
fairs. She has demonstrated through her 
own commitment what it means to be a 
member of a community of caring.... The 
very capable staff of professionals and stu
dents with whom she has worked will miss 
her profoundly.
Among Rileys.specific accomplishments 
has been her work with gender issues. 
She was on the planning-committee which, 
founded Mosaic, an annual CMU womens 
conference held in March. She has also 
worked closely with sexual assault advi
sors, a group of faculty, staff, and stu-. 
dents who are trained to counsel victims 
of sexual assault.
Allison has taught me a lot about how to 
be a leader, especially as a woman, said 
Christina Lopez, a senior in psychology who. 
has worked with Riley on gender issues. I;. 
just really admire her and am happy to have 
had the opportunity to learn from her. 
Riley said her commitment to gender is, 
sues at CMU, while part of her job, has also, 
been in large part a personal project.
Whats been nice for me about working 
with Dean Murphy is that hes allowed me to 
combine my areas of personal interest with 
areas that also fit under the umbrella of 
Student Life, said Riley.
There are lots of new initiatives happen
ing in gender issues [at CMU]. I see that that 
area is just going to continue to expand [in 
my absence], said Riley. I see that theres 
Please see RILEY, page 3
If all goes as planned...aOig mpAFefsM fO LrcTOcb Oe iFbLSs
By DANIEL TSENG
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
I thought the deal was that they 
were definitely .coming, said Steve 
Rickenback, a junior in music eduIf all goes as planned, the celebrated cation and classical guitar perforrock band They Might Be Giants is mance, upon learning of the uncercoming to CMU for a performance on tainty. Ill be greatly disappointed
November 7.
After lengthy discussions with the 
bands agent, the Activities Board 
(AB) has finally come up with a bid 
which the band has tentatively agreed 
to. The agent has already 
sent a contract. AB and 
the band are now in the 
process of ironing out de
tails before the concert is 
confirmed.
It looks to me like a 75 
percent chance that theyre 
coming, said Mike Batz, a member of 
AB and a graduate student in electrical 
engineering.
Until we sign a contract, we cant say 
lts going to happen, said Subhojit
[if it doesnt happen] because to have 
a band of that calibre at this school 
would be incredible.
If They Might Be Giants doesnt 
come to CMU, were going down to The
It looks to me like a 75 percent 
chance that theyre coming. 
 Mike Batz, AB chair
HUB with torches and pitchforks, said 
Simon Goldsmith, a freshman in com
puter science.
Whats holding up confirmation at this 
point are the contract negotiations over 
Mookerjee, AB chair and a junior social equipment. Originally in the contract, 
and decision sciences maj or. the band asked for types and amounts of
Despite the uncertainty, publicity sound equipment which AB could not 
for the event has already begun. Flyrealistically provide, 
ers have been posted around campus This isnt something thats,being done
which read, They Might Be coming. flippantly, its something which people 
Many students have already gotten are working diligently on, said Batz. 
their hopes up. We have limited resources in
[Rangos, where the concert is to be 
held] and as an organization, said Batz. 
We can meet a subset of [their re
quest], but we cant meet it all. 
Originally the band had asked for 
over 130 lights and a special kind of 
smoke machine which AB doesnt have 
in its possession. Since then, the band 
has compromised and backed down on a 
number of their requests, and AB has 
looked into which items they can realistically provide for the con
cert. This involves looking 
into where they can rent 
equipment in the Pittsburgh 
area, and  if they are un
able to find what they need 
regionally  exploring 
equipment rental options 
outside Pittsburgh.
None of this is a problem [right now], 
said Mookerjee, but its something that 
might be a problem [in the future]. 
The potentially high turnout poses 
another problem. AB expects the con
cert to be; much bigger than last years 
spring concert when TS Monk per
formed at Rangos Hall. That concert 
sold out, and over 600 people were in 
attendance. For They Might Be Giants, 
the location at this moment is also set 
Please see GIANTS, page 3

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 1997
- --
ueOxsfOcbs Ae f/r pcrFf KCFAes sfcFej bOfOcAsfs
DENVER (AP)  The first blizzard 
of the season shut down much of the 
western Plains on Saturday, with up 
to three feet of wind-driven snow clos
ing hundreds of miles of highways and 
leaving travelers snowbound in bus 
depots, airports, and truck stops.
Even people trained for severe con
ditions couldnt reach their destina
tions. Search and rescue specialist 
Micki Marti tried to get from Denver 
to her home in Last Chance, but never 
made it beyond Byers, 25 miles east of 
Denver on Interstate 70.
inches in Denver. Snow fell as far south 
as the Texas Panhandle as the storm 
rolled eastward across the Plains.
Wind blew at up to 40 mph across 
th e PI ai n s and overnigh t temperatures 
in eastern Colorado fell into the teens 
and 20s.
The worldwide El Nio phenomenon, 
expected to give parts of the West a wet, 
stormy winter, very possibly could be 
involved in the severity of the October 
blizzard, said Frank Denton at the Na
tional Weather Service office in Denver. 
Colorado Governor Roy Romer de
clared a state of 
emergency and 
mobilized the 
National Guard 
to rescue 
stranded motor
ists. The Colo
rado Depart
ment of Trans
portation said it 
had 1,600 snow
plows working 
Saturday. 
Snowplow driv
ers reported 
snowdrifts were 
covering cars, 
department 
spokesman Dan 
Hopkins said. 
About 2,000
I even tried the back roads. Im only people were stranded at airline termi28 miles from home. But it was all nals at Denver International Airport, 
closed, Marti said by telephone from The airport remained operational, and 
a Red Cross shelter at the Byers Amerifive flights landed during the mom
ean Legion Hall, where she was one of ing. Later flights were canceled beabout 25 stranded travelers. cause the road to the airport was closed.
Interstates and other highways were The snow stopped mail deliveries
courtesy of Reuters
Passing motorists stop and help free a vehicle that was stuck 
in the snow from a major winter storm in Denver on Saturday.
closed across a large part of eastern 
Colorado and southeastern Wyoming, 
along with adjoining sections of Ne
braska, Kansas, and New Mexico.
Were flat shut down, Lincoln 
County sheriffs spokesman Dale 
Briggs said in Hugo, Colo. The only 
things moving are four-wheel-drives 
and emergency vehicles.
Snowfall totals by Saturday morning 
in Colorado included 38 inches at Coal 
Creek Canyon, 24 in Boulder, and 20
in some areas, including Goodland, 
Kan., and Denver. The trucks can
not get away from the docks. None 
of them did. We didnt get a bit of 
mail, said Don Norris, spokesman 
for the U.S. Postal Service in Fort 
Morgan, Colo. Carriers had trouble 
reaching mailboxes in Goodland. 
They couldnt see anything and 
nobody could see them in their white 
vehicles, said acting postmaster 
Robert Sherman.
Roadblock runner 
wins settlement
PITTSBURGH (AP)  The city has 
agreed to pay $1.5 million to a motorcy
clist injured 18 years ago when he ran 
into a roadblock while fleeing police.
Henry F. Jodzis Jr. lost part of his leg 
after police chased him for running a 
stop sign. When Jodzis did not pull over, 
officers used a car as a roadblock on a 
narrow street.
Two juries, one in 1987 and one in
1995, found police violated a rule 
against using deadly force by setting 
up the roadblock without providing an 
escape route.
If the city had agreed to the original 
jury award, it would have paid Jodzis 
just $60,000. But a string of appeals 
ordered by the City Council led to heavy 
interest and a higher award.
City Solicitor Jacqueline Morrow said 
she decided not to appeal to the state 
Supreme Court because chances were 
slim the court would hear the case.
Jodzis will receive his first payment of 
$250,000 on November 30, said his law
yer, Edward Friedman.
Untreatable strain 
of TB emerges
WASHINGTON (AP)Hot zones of 
untreatable tuberculosis are emerging 
around the world and threaten a global 
crisis, the World Health Organization 
(WHO) said Wednesday.
A study of50,000 patients in 35 nations 
found that a third of the countries have a 
form of TB resistant to multiple drugs. 
Untreatable cases account for two per
cent to 14 percent of the world total.
That number is low, but WHO said 
lethal tuberculosis could spread rapidly 
because only one in 10 patients gets 
medical care appropriate to curb drug 
resistance.
Hot zones in India, Russia, Latvia, 
Estonia, the Dominican Republic, Argen
tina, and the Ivory Coast have so much 
drug-resistant TB that it threatens to 
overwhelm local health systems, said the 
study by WHO and U.S. health officials.
This study shows definitively, and for 
the first time, what we most feared but 
could not previously prove: Our world 
again faces the specter of incurable tu
berculosis, said Dr. Michael Iseman,
TB chief at the National Jewish Medical 
and Research Center in Denver, who 
reviewed the study. Drug-resistant TB 
is on every continent, probably in every 
country, he said.
Tuberculosis is the worlds top infec
tious killer. It is spread through cough
ing and sneezing and can be highly con
tagious the average patient infects 10 
to 20 people a year.
The World Health Organization an
nounced last spring that TBs global 
spread had finally leveled off, but the 
new study looks specifically at killer 
drug-resistant forms.
Tuberculosis often can be cured with a 
combination of four drugs taken for six 
to eight months.
But many patients, especially in poor 
countries, stop taking the drugs when 
they feel better or run out of money, 
which allows the TB still in their bodies 
to mutate so that one or more medicines 
no longer work. This acquired drug re
sistance is entirely preventable with 
proper care, WHO said.
These people also can spread drugresistant TB to new patients, a circum
stance that gives patients what is called 
primary drug resistance.
The WHO study found spots where 
resistance to a single drug is alarmingly 
highit reached 100 percent of treated 
but not cured TB patients in Ivanovo 
Oblast, Russia, about 180 miles east of 
Moscow. These people can be treated 
with other drugs, but theyre in danger 
because the TB germ must make just 
one more mutation to become multidrug 
resistant  and lethal.
Places with low levels of multidrugresistant TB included Kenya, with no 
cases; Australia and New Zealand, each 
with less than one percent; and the 
United States, with two percent.
Hundreds protest 
in Israeli capital
JERUSALEM (AP)  Hundreds of 
Israelis demonstrated Friday outside 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahus 
home, demanding he resign for saying 
dovish Israelis have forgotten what it 
means to be Jewish.
Among the 400 demonstrators were 
two dozen middle-aged army reservists 
who had marched for three days, start
ing out at the Tel Aviv square where 
former Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin
was assassinated by an ultranationalist 
Jew in November 1995.
Other demonstrators carried signs 
saying, There is no peace and there is 
no security, a reference to Netanyahus 
1996 campaign slogan promising he 
would deliver both.
Netanyahus opponents have accused 
him of willfully destroying the peace 
process with the Palestinians by going 
back on earlier agreements and refusing 
to make concessions.
US citizens turn 
back the clocks
WASHINGTON (AP)  If youve not 
already set your clock back an hour, 
your first class today probably looked 
remarkably empty.
For those who remembered on Sun
day, it was time for another American 
ritual: setting the clocks back.
The official hour of change was 2 am 
Sunday, local time, though most folks 
made the change before hitting the sack, 
gaining an extra hour of sleep.
Daylight-savings time returns the first 
Sunday in April.
New test product 
reduces smoke
NEW YORK (AP)  Philip Morris 
Cos. is testing a tobacco system that 
uses a special cigarette and pager-sized 
lighter to reduce smoke, ash, and odor.
The company said today it plans to 
give the Accord smoking system to about 
100 adult smokers in the United States 
and Japan.
The battery-powered system allows 
the cigarette to burn only when smokers 
lift the entire device to their lips and 
take a puff, the company said.
The device is designed to eliminate 
the smoke from a burning cigarette that 
accounts for 90 percent of secondhand 
smoke. Smokers will still inhale the same 
amount of tar and nicotine in conven
tional ultralight cigarettes, and they will 
still exhale smoke.
The company said smokers can wait 
as long as they want between puffs. 
After the last puff, the smoker ejects the 
cigarette. The cigarettes will cost up to 
$2.75 a pack. The cigarette holder, a 
battery charger, and a pack of Accords 
will be sold in starter boxes for $50.2An/ Aefrcrsf cFfrs iFSsr 2Oen hOen bFcgrfs fO TFCC fO rFcUCOen COx
HONG KONG (AP)  Hong 
Kong stocks suffered their worst 
fall in a decade Thursday in a 
burst of panic selling triggered 
by rocketing interest rates and 
fears that the vibrant Hong Kong 
economy may be infected by tur
moil elsewhere in Asia.
Financial Secretary Donald 
*Tsang disclosed that monetary 
authorities were forced to dip into 
Hong Kongs foreign exchange cof
fers to sell U.S. dollars overnight 
and support the Hong Kong cur
rency. This triggered interest rate 
bikes that pounded the stock mar
ket Thursday morning, he said, 
but added that it was the price of 
defending the currencys peg to the 
XJ.S. dollar, our top priority.
The key blue chip index, theHang 
Seng, shed 14 percent in morning 
trading before recovering slightly. 
The losses hammered down 
Tokyos Nikkei Stock Average by 
3.03 percent, and shares also took 
a further battering in Malaysia, 
Singapore, Indonesia, and the Phil
ippines  as well as halfway 
around the world in London.
Analysts said the Hang Sengs 
plunge raised the question of 
whether Hong Kong can continue 
to insulate itself from the rest of 
Asia despite fundamental eco
nomic distinctions.
Where other Asian economies 
are perceived as suffering seri
ous institutional flaws, Hong 
Kongs system is the Interna
tional Monetary Funds model. 
Its problems stem mostly from 
having the only Asian currency 
still pegged to the U.S. dollar.
That makes it the only currency 
that could still tempt concerted 
speculative attack. Hong Kong au
thorities say they will fight back 
at all costs because they view a 
stable, dollar-pegged currency as 
vital to maintaining international 
confidence in Hong Kong now that 
China has taken the former colony 
over from Britain.
Steven Xu, an economist at 
Standard Chartered Bank, said 
he was confident the peg would 
stay, but if every country in 
Asia, starting with Japan, has to 
go through a deflationary pro
cess, it seems Hong Kong cannot 
be spared.
Thursdays plunge followed three 
days of falls that had already 
shaved 14 percent from the 
markets value since Friday. The 
market has lost one-third of its 
value since hitting a high of 
16,673.27 on Aug. 7. The Hang 
Seng, which closed at 11,637.77 
Wednesday, dipped below the
10,000 level Thursday. It closed at 
10,426.3, down 10 percent for the 
day and 23 percent for the week.
Anson Chan, Hong Kongs top 
civil servant, urged calm. Hong 
Kong cannot escape being af
fected in the short term by whats 
happening in the region, she 
told reporters.
courtesy of Reuters
A passerby watches a Hang Seng Index display on Wednesday. The key 
blue chip index in Hong Kong was down 23 percent for the week.
Four-Day Forecast
TuesdaySunny.
 Hi 46 Lo 33
Wednesday
iMingrMostly cloudy. 
Hi 54 Lo 34
ThursdaySunny.
 \ Hi 54 Lo 36
Friday t
vy
Showers.
Hi 55 Lo 45
Carnegie Almanac
from National Weather Service bulletins and other sources
50 YEARS AGO, No vember 25, 
1947  President Robert E. 
Doherty deliveredhis State of CIT 
address to the student body at the 
culmination of the annual Carn
egie Day exercises. He said that 
despite the fact that students 
rarely see him, they should not 
conclude that he is not interested 
in them. I am in there working 
for you to get the best faculty, best 
educational program, and as good 
facilities as possible. He also ad
dressed frequent requesst from 
the students for a better football 
team. We cant have both Class A 
football and professional educa
tion unless we set football up with 
special educational programs for 
the squad, and this we cannot do.
25 YEARS AGO, October 31, 
1972  Rev. Jesse Jackson was 
the guest lecturer for the course 
Power Structures and Organiza
tional Activity. Jackson said he 
believes that if one accepts his 
own essence and condition, the 
first criteria for power is fulfilled. 
If ones personality is split, his 
mind will be weak, and he will 
not hold any power. Ultimately, 
he says, the way to reach the 
power within ourselves is to ad
dress oneself to the needs of the 
people. He also discussed how 
Americas power structure was, 
according to him, headed in the 
wrong direction.
10 YEARS AGO, October 27, 
1987  A memorial in honor of 
Carnegie Mellon alumna Judith 
Resnik was planned to be erected 
in front of Hamerschlag Hall. The 
memorial was sponsored by Tau 
Beta Pi, the engineering honor 
society of which Dr. Resnik was a 
member. Patterned after Tau 
Beta Pis official symbol, the tri
angular bent, the monument rep
resents over a year of organiza
tion and effort towards a more 
permanent and visible reminder 
of the humanity vested in the 
engineering disciplines. The me
morial is made from solid brass 
and is set into a semi-circular 
slab of granite. The face of this 
base is covered by a bronze plaque 
detailing the career of Resnik 
including her tenure with NASA.
FIVE YEARS AGO, October 
26, 1992  Estimates made by 
the student government trea
surer indicated that Student Sen
ate would encounter some prob
lems at the budget hearings. He 
said that the remaining $95,000 
from the years Activities Fee 
would not be enough to cover the 
budgets of student organizations 
that are recognized and funded 
by Student Senate. He said that
Senate needed to be especially 
aware of the situation, and that it 
could not rely on the appearance 
of magic money.
ONE YEAR AGO, October 28, 
1996  Computing Services had 
been working on upgrading the 
campus network in a project still 
being implemented, called Net
work 2000. The Network 2000 
initiative officially started in 
January of 1996. The long-term 
plan was to deploy the new sys
tem in all academic buildings on 
campus with dormitories and fra
ternities to follow. The final goal 
was to increase the bandwidth of 
all networked computers by hook
ing them up to either a shared 
100 Mbps (megabits per seconds) 
line or a switched 10 Mbps line.
Compiled by 
RYAN D. SCHILLING

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 19973
Revered administrator 
leaves Student Life
RILEY, from page 1
a lot of interest on the part of womens 
groups and supportive faculty and staff.
Riley has been with the University for 
over four years, first as assistant dean 
of student affairs, then as coordinator 
of residence life, and later as assistant 
director of student life.
Her staff consists of four coordinators 
of different areas of student life. Lisa 
Dingman is the first-year programs co
ordinator, Kevin Hughes coordinates 
leadership and personal development, 
Roxanne Zeisloft works with judicial 
affairs, and Mary Hoover coordinates 
family programs such as family week
end.
Itll be hard when shes gone, but Ill 
just have a high phone bill, said Hoover.
Riley has not yet found a job in Bos
ton, but says she plans to look for work 
similar to what shes doing now at col
and universities in the Boston
I feel her leaving is a huge loss, and 
I am going to miss her a great deal, 
said Lopez. But I understand that she 
has to leave, and I know wherever she 
goes she will be very successful.
No decision has yet been made on 
who will replace Riley at the beginning 
of next semester.
I dont think theres any replace
ment for Allison, said Hoover. I dont 
think anybody wants to try to replace 
her. Shell be leaving a lot of good things 
behind her. Shes leaving us with a lot 
to work with.
AB tries to get 
big name band
 1996 Elektra Records 
John Flansburgh (left) and John Linnel of They Might Be 
Giants are all set to perform in Rangos on November 7.
GIANTS, from page 1
in Rangos, which has a maxi
mum capacity of about 1500, 
standing room only. Mookerjee 
expects students to fill the space.
[The problem] is not so much 
space as the actual items, said 
Mookeijee, referring to the fact 
that Rangos doesnt have some of 
the sound production or lighting 
equipment capabilities that 
other, bigger venues have.
AB has been talking with some 
fraternities and other organiza
tions to find a location which will 
better meet the needs of the band 
and those who will be attending, 
but they are pretty certain the
concert  if it is to be held  will 
be in Rangos, said Mookeijee.
We havent had a big fall con
cert in a while, said Mookeijee, 
and we wanted to do something 
big in the fall that people would 
have fun at, because everyone 
seems to think that carnival is 
the only thing that happens all 
year. AB is trying for a big No
vember, according to Mookeijee. 
Today, Andy Richter, Conan 
OBriens sidekick on Late 
Night, is providing a free show 
in Rangos, and plans are still 
being worked out for Henry 
Rollins spoken word performance 
later this month.
Fraternity leaders 
balk at ATO revival
ATO, from page 1
erative ... and [EFC] will recon
sider in the future with an open 
mind ATOs return to campus. 
Last year, the ATO alumni 
held a career lecture series 
entitled Career Placement 
101 at Duquesne University 
and CMU, which brought a 
prominent ATO alumnus to 
the campuses to share and 
interact with students. The 
Career Placement brochure 
describes the series as part 
of the fraternitys goal to be
come more involved in the 
community and become an 
integral factor in the careers 
of students.
In addition, ATO is in
volved in sending students 
to the Leadershape Institute, 
a six-day program in leader
ship training.
Tartan File Photo 
Eric Grant, IFC president, said 
ATO lacks strong student support.
Fire causes evacuation of Wean Hall
FIRE, from page 1
someone had stolen a purse. 
While the injuries from the fire 
were kept to a minimum and evacu
ation of the building occurred 
within 15 minutes of notification of 
the fire, a number of doctoral stu
dents have been wary of Weans 
fire alarm system for some time 
now  they fear that Wean Halls 
alarm system is outdated to the 
point that it is a fire hazard for 
occupants of the building.
Almost everyone ignored [the 
alarm] until the police came in 
and evacuated personally, said 
Corey Kosak, a doctoral student 
in computer science. It seems to 
be a big problem if you cant hear 
the alarm well if your door is 
closed or if you have music play
ing in your office.
Kosak and a number of his 
colleagues in the computer sci
ence department have been ac
tively complaining about the 
poor sound quality of the fire 
alarm systems in Wean and
Doherty Halls for two years 
now. The current bell that is 
activated in these buildings re
sembles a cowbell, according 
to David Eckardt, a doctoral stu
dent in electrical and computer 
engineering. And [it] only rings
Once the alarm sounds, the 
paper tape system that is in 
place in these buildings 
punches a bell pattern on to a 
tape that fire fighters read in 
order to identify the exact loca
tion of the fire. The ringing
It seems to be a big problem if you 
cant hear the alarm well if your 
door is closed or if you have music 
playing in your office. 
 Corey Kosak 
doctoral student in CS
for a about a minute or two 
after activation, he said.
A modern alarm system is de
signed to make remaining in the 
building uncomfortable, said 
David Maltz, a computer science 
graduate student.
must stop within a few min
utes of activation in order to 
prevent the pattern from run
ning off the tape, said Eckardt.
This is really ancient tech
nology, he said. Were stunned 
that its legal.
But according to Vice Presi
dent of Business Affairs Ron 
Carter the alarm system works 
fine. Perhaps if we actually held 
fire drills more often people 
would be more familiar with the 
sound of the alarms, he said. 
Mock drills will make people 
more aware of the system.
While GSA representative in 
computer science Will Yuther 
claims there hasnt been a will 
to move forward on any kind 
of renovation of Wean alarms 
on the part of administration, 
plans to modernize the sys
tems are underway, accord
ing to Carter. Well be put
ting in a new system in about 
two years, he said.
But I dont think they real
ize that its serious that the 
alarms lack that certain alarm
ing quality, said Yuther. 
[GSA] is setting wheels in 
motion to approach the admin
istration about this problem so 
it can be dealt with soon.
Crime and Incident Report
10/18 HOT-AIR BALLOON 
DEFLATION, 1:30 am  While 
on fraternity patrol, an officer 
noticed three males run across 
Forbes Avenue and jump into the 
Homecoming hot-air balloon. The 
actors then proceeded to turn off 
the compressor, causing the bal
loon to deflate. The officer stopped 
the actors and identified them. 
While interviewing the actors, the 
smell of alcohol began to perme
ate the air. The officer asked them 
if they had been drinking. They 
admitted they had had some beer 
and were issued state citations 
for underage consumption. They 
were also issued internal cita
tions for disorderly conduct.
10/19 MUSIC CONTRO
VERSY, 12:04 amA dispatcher 
received a call from a woman ob
jecting to the lyrics being played 
on WRCT. She said that she heard 
countless obscenities and was of
fended by them. She maintained 
that a censored version of the rap 
music was available and that 
WRCT is breaking federal law by 
airing such trash. When the po
lice further investigated the mat
ter, they found that WRCT was, 
in fact, not breaking the law. The 
FCC only prohibits the DJ from 
using obscene language. While 
the radio station does not favor 
such music, it has a safe harbor 
period from 10 pm until 6 am 
when any type of music is permit
ted. The next day, the woman 
called to complain that WRCT 
continued playing offensive rap 
music despite her requests. The 
situation was explained to her.
10/19 MEDICAL, 9:07 pm  
An officer was dispatched to Skibo 
Gym for a medical call. Upon ar
rival, a member of CMU EMS 
was already examining the in
jured person. During a game, he 
had been struck in the mouth 
with the butt end of a hockey 
stick. He sustained small cuts to 
the lips and had a front tooth 
broken in half. He was trans
ported to UPMC.
10/20 POSSESSION OF 
FALSE ID, 3:59 pm  While on 
patrol on September 5, a detec
tive spotted two students carry
ing a case of beer. One of them
possessed identification saying 
that he was a CMU alumnus. 
Subsequent investigation re
vealed that he was not who he 
claimed to be. The detective ob
tained a search warrant and went 
to their room in Resnik. After a 
search of the area, he found a half 
empty 1.75 liter bottle of Bacardi 
Rum. He searched the person who 
previously had the false identifi
cation. The ID was found on him, 
and it was confiscated along with 
the rum.
10/23 MEDICAL, 8:00 pm  A 
CMU student requested medical 
transport, so an officer was dis
patched to his Cathedral Mansions 
apartment. He said that he slid 
across the floor of his apartment, 
and that was when the two-inch 
splinter entered his foot. He had 
spent 45 minutes trying to get the 
splinter out but to no avail, and now 
he was getting desperate. He was 
driven to Presbyterian Hospital.
10/25 UNDERAGE POSSES
SION OF AN INTOXICATED 
PERSON, 12:51 am  A secu
rity guard radioed Campus Po
lice to inform them of two males 
carrying a third up Forbes Av
enue. An officer responded and 
stopped the trio. The three were 
identified, and all were under
age. The person who was being 
carried was highly inebriated, 
and so he was issued a state cita
tion for underage drinking. The 
pair who were assisting him said 
that they would keep an eye on 
him for the remainder of the night.
 Chief ofCampus Police James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tartan 
staff see the reports: the editor-inchief, the news editor, and the 
staffwriter typing the report.
 All personal names of complain
ants, victims, suspects, andfraiemity 
names are omitted from the printed 
report. Ethnic descriptions and other 
personal details are given only in the 
context of complete descriptions.
 Not every incident that occurs 
appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RYAN SCHILLING
Corrections/Clarifications...
In last weeks article Student film festival exhibits new 
talent, the event Saturday night at the McConomy was 
incorrectly identified as the 1997 student film festival. The 
event was actually a best-of presentation of student films in the 
past two years.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of an 
error, please contact Editor-in-Chief Sharmila Venkatasubban 
at tartan@andrew.cmu.edu.
7u7193 d7uI1RkaW3 7991RHw719t
We're looking for people who can see the future. What do you see?
If it's a .world where computer technology changes our lives and you 
want to be a part of it, we'd like to hear from you.
CIGNA Systems is recruiting people to help connect us to the 21st 
Century. We operate one of the largest Local Area Networks (LAN) in 
America, with more than 300,000 miles of voice and data network 
connecting 37,000 workstations and telephones in 1,700 locations 
throughout the U.S. Interested?
At CIGNA, we are always trying to discover people with talent and 
vision. Are you one? If so, please take the time to meet with us:
Date: October 30, 1997 
Time: 8:00 - 9:30 PM 
Place: Student Center, Room 203
If you can't join us, you can contact us or visit us on the Web.
CIGNA
-He University Relations, T1.P46
1601 Chestnut Street, P.O. Box 7716 
Philadelphia, PA 19192-2462 
Pax: 215.761.5505CIGNA
A Business of Caring.
AeCrcerC HjjcrssB 
CbLt7/xxxtiAneFtiOb
We're tin eqiuil opportunity employer. M/F/D/V. "CIGNA'' refers to CIGNA Cor/Hjrtitloii tfiitl/or one or more of its subsitliiiries. Most employees ore employeiyy subsidiaries of CIGNA Corporation, which provide insurance and related products.
ITS NOT YELLOW. THE SEATS AREN'T GREEN.AND THERE ARE FEWER PAPER AIRPLANES FLYING ABOUT.BUT A PORT AUTHORITY BUS WILL GET YOU TO CLASS.JUST LIKE THE BUSES OF YOUR YOUTH.
AND AS AN ADDED BONUS,OUR BUS WlLL ALSO TAKE YOU TO THE AIRPORT, DOWNTOWN OR EVEN THE SOUTH SIDE.BUT PLEASE REMEMBER...NO FIGHTING OVER WHO GETS ON FIRST
Port Authority
THE BEST WAY AROUND CAMPUS.
442111

---------------------------------------------------

INFORMATION 
SESSION
Meet with representatives of the Ford Motor Company, 
and you'll get a taste of the 21st century. Our engineering 
professionals are using innovative methods and designs to bring 
exciting next generation products to the market, as our business 
team is propelling us into our bright future with their Sales &
Marketing talents.
If you are graduating with a BS or higher degree in Electrical,
Mechanical, or Computer Engineering, Computer Science, or 
Mathematics OR a degree in Marketing, Economics, General 
Business, or an MBA in Management, come look into what Ford 
has to offer , and learn about Ford's College Graduate career 
development programl
Don't miss this unique opportunity to take your talents into 
the future with the Ford Motor Company, we look forward 
to meeting you!
/id ttenctcd (adenti one /wuUalltf uwtied tty attewi att 'nfammattoK SeMut: 
SK/tefat iRoont 
'Roente SayitteeUttfy 'ityaM, pwnti 'ptoan
6 fuK ~ % fUH
Itiwitolaif.. 7'lavemen 6tA 
'Dien cd cantai. TQefyieAAmeMti will 6e fruwided.
By choice, Ford Motor Company is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
Get a Job!
Find out about 
JobDirect.coms 
Student Rep Program 
atCMU...
 Make Extra $$$
 Get Experience
 Flexible Schedule
 Help your Friends!
Contact Sara by e-mail (sara@jobdirect.com) 
or phone (203.629.2201) to find out more 
information about this great opportunity and 
the on-campus Information Session on 
October 31,1997.
JObdAcriftiO
IcFz IcFAn sFsB
You wanna 
work for
THE TARTAN!
The Tartan is hiring Assistant Editors!
2For F sF FbOSf x/Ff cSes Ae f/r LFLrc  
CF OSf LFnrs3 xcAfr sfOcArs3 Fej nrf LFAj TOc Af! 
9O erxsLFLrc rxLrcAreir As erirssFc3 FCf/OSn/ 
sObr bFsAi KFnrbFgrc rxLrcAreir As LcrTrccrjt
kbFAC Lb3u TOc bOcr AeTOt

---------------------------------------------------

R1w79ptttufACC srx tttCrss iFCOcArs
Mellon College of Science
Jamie Chang 
Nicholas Fitzkee 
Deval Joshi 
Andrew Stovall 
Gregory Usberti
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Van Butler 
Lawrence McCartin 
Keith Rothschild 
Matthew Schneider
Humanities and Social Sciences*
Scott Goodrich 
Sarah Gross 
William Guzy
School of Industrial Administration
Geoffrey Go
Vishal Radhakrishnan
Nik Shah
Sern Yong Tham
School of Computer Science*
Ira Fay 
Ika Hardjanto
October 29-31
COFb U 5Lb OSfsAjr dO/rcf
Friday 6-9pm in the University Center

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Carnegie Mellon University27 October 1997
Study Abroad Office 
should be expanded
Although study abroad pro
grams are gaining popularity 
each year, CMUs Study Abroad 
office fails to provide students 
with proper direction when they 
approach the idea of spending 
time in another country. The 
problem is not a lack of avail
able information; the office 
shelves are stacked with books 
full of information about many 
study abroad programs and op
portunities. Rather, the prob
lem lies in inadequate human 
resources to provide students 
with the advice and guidance 
they need in order to make the 
necessary decision wisely.
As it stands, students are gen
erally directed toward one or 
two study abroad advisors, 
while more than 120 students 
per year show interest in po
tentially studying abroad. 
Though the current advisors 
can successfully point students 
to the right books to find the 
programs they might be inter
ested in, students need more 
than a librarian for a decision 
that affects them not only aca
demically but also personally.
Students need study abroad 
advisors that can connect their 
needs with appropriate pro
grams.
Students also need an advi
sory system that will help them 
coordinate course credit trans
fers between universities and 
determine what kinds of finan
cial help is available to them. 
Since the majority of students 
enter into programs which are 
not CMU-sponsored, there is
little information about the pro
cedures of study abroad host 
schools.
Students are told to seek 
scheduling help from academic 
advisors, but it is the responsi
bility of the study abroad office 
to provide guidance to students. 
They should be the link between 
CMU and the host schools. Too 
often students dont know who 
to talk to and go on faith that 
their courses will transfer.
Students wishing to study 
abroad also have difficulty in 
assessing their options of finan
cial aid. As The HUB is rarely 
familiar with the policy of host 
schools, it is up to the Study 
Abroad Office to provide infor
mation on possible resources.
It is true that students must 
take initiative in endeavors 
such as studying abroad. While 
they dont need someone mak
ing all the decisions for them, 
some direction is necessary. 
Currently, the study abroad of
fice holds an information ses
sion each semester for students 
interested in studying abroad 
and an orientation for students 
prior to their departure. These 
are helpful steps, but more per
sonal interaction is needed. The 
study abroad office should be 
an open resource of informa
tion and support for students 
who are making important aca
demic and social decisions. 
More advisors and better com
munication and coordination 
between students, host schools, 
and home departments are a 
necessity.
Family Weekend 
needs student focus
Family Weekend provides a 
time for parents and siblings to 
acquaint themselves with their 
students life at college, but the 
current program serves to high
light University achievements 
rather than students experiences 
and accomplishments. While 
Student Life plans a myriad of 
events for families to partake in, 
these events lack proper focus.
Lectures such as The Social 
Security Crisis for Real  The 
Economic Impact of an Aging 
Population and NASAs 
Manned Spacecraft Computers 
give families a slice of successful 
faculty research and tout CMUs 
reputation as a leading research 
institution, but by this point, 
most families are already sold on 
the school. They attend Family 
Weekend so they can see how 
students spend theirtime, where 
they eat, and who they live with 
and to meet their friends.
While events such as the 
Presidents address generally 
catch the eye of visiting parents, 
the overall program would be 
enhanced with events geared to
wards both students and par
ents. For example, a parent-student dinner in Rangos hall would 
give families an opportunity to 
meet other families. In addition 
to the typical campus tour that 
most students take before they
James Mojonnier/Tartan Art StaffufSjrefs /For jSf fO criiCr
" Justin Cina
Recycling on cam
pus has come under 
fire lately, and the 
controversy that has 
ensued only serves 
to complicate the isdecide to attend CMU, a tour of 
different academic buildings in 
relation to the amount of time 
students spend there might be 
more beneficial over Family 
Weekend. Families might find a 
tour of dorm rooms to be a good 
way to acquaint themselves with 
life at CMU. While details such 
as on-campus eating venues, 
study areas, and classroom 
spaces might seem trivial, it is 
important to remember that not 
all family members have at
tended college and have never 
experienced what life is like on 
campus, especially this campus.
Another problem that stifles 
the potential of Family Weekend 
programming is that it shares a 
weekend with the International 
Festival. While many families 
both attend and appreciate the 
events planned by Student Ac
tivities for the International 
Festival, Family Weekend tends 
to get lost in its shadow. Perhaps 
with better publicity of Family 
Weekend events, Student Lifes 
hard work in planning these 
events would pay off in higher 
attendance rates. But the best 
way to make Family Weekend 
meet the interests of students 
and visiting families is to create 
more family-oriented programs 
as opposed to an entire weekend 
of CMU promotional events.
sue. Whats the issue? Whats up with recycling on campus? 
What is our deal here at CMU? The deal is really quite simple 
 CMU is a very environmentally 
conscious school with a potentially ef
fective program that has always and 
will always require the help of us, the 
students.
The facts simply cannot be ignored.
Our past and present recycling efforts 
are significant and plenty. In 1990, we 
adopted a university policy that has 
since been exceeded and improved.
For example, in 1990 we adopted Penn
sylvania Act 101 that, for the munici
pality of Pittsburgh, requires office 
paper, cardboard, aluminum cans, and 
leaf waste to be recycled. CMU has 
exceeded the provisions of Act 101 to' 
include numerous different types of 
paper (including telephone directories, 
newsprint, magazines, and many 
more), steel cans, glass (of all colors), 
beverage container lids (must be removed from bottles), and 
plastics (#1 and #2).
In addition, considering our extensive computer use, we 
have enacted different programs for recycling computers, 
disks, manuals, and toner cartridges.
The organization of the program has also been continuously 
reconsidered. The most recent effort is to redefine the existing 
university policy to a more active standpoint stressing the 
reduction of materials, resources and waste. The list really 
does go on, from efforts of alumni to the Green Design 
initiative. From the Recycling Advisory Board meeting quar
terly from 1990 to 1996 to review the recycling policy to the 
various student organizations concerning environmental prac
tices, one can observe the various efforts supporting our 
program. It is impossible to deny that there is a significant 
incentive at CMU towards environmental practice, especially 
when considering its milestone victory in 1994 when receiving 
the Three Rivers Environmental Award.
This is not to imply that the program is perfect. The clarity, 
ease, and accessibility of the program is dubious. Recycling 
containers are sometimes indistinguishable from trash con
tainers. No one seems to be clear enough on what goes where. 
Also the organization, or hierarchy of the coordinators, of the 
program has some quirks that may ultimately result in an 
unintentional lack of initiative.
Yet these minor inadequacies pale in comparison to the 
mammoth responsibility of us, the 
students, to getting the job done. 
Reduce and reuse always should 
be our motto. But when it comes to 
recycling, we must recycle, and 
make the effort not only to recycle 
but to recycle rightly.
To recycle means that when we 
come into possession of a recyclable 
material we must actively seek a 
means to recycle that product. In 
addition, we must actively seek 
recyclable products made from re
cycled materials.
To recycle rightly we must not 
contaminate recycle containers. 
These containers, usually marked 
in some distinguishable manner, 
cannot be used as substitutes for 
trash receptacles. When a recycle 
container gets contaminated past its acceptable level (which 
is practically any contamination at all), the materials, and, 
consequently, the efforts put into recycling those materials, 
get thrown away.
This is not done in brash, unwarranted opposition by the 
custodial services to the student body but is a contracted 
policy and remains a codified method. Another right mea
sure we can take is designating recycling containers in our 
rooms and in any common academic setting that requires 
our daily attendance.
Its just the attention to detail in our lives and the informed 
decisions we make that can forge the gap in CMUs already 
motivated policy. For any recycling program to work, it must 
have recyclers recycling rightly, contributing to make a 
difference.
Justin Cina is a freshman design major. He welcomes any 
responsible replies to his column.
Mark Adato/Tartan Assistant Art Editor
kf/Ais oFcArs xAf/ sLriATAi fcFjr
Bharat Bhat
I have noticed that students around 
here are not quite cognizant of the ethi
cal implications created by their field of 
study. I have pondered over this matter 
ever since setting my toes here. Although 
I agree with the students ideas for a 
durative period, my beliefs on ethics 
now as related to general fields of study 
rest at the opposing end.
Everyone who attends college must 
necessarily notice the differences in vari
ous fields  particularly if the fields are 
distantly related, that is, fields that af
fect or involve differing sectors of soci
ety. For example, a man creating an 
ultra air compressor for hand-held drills 
will influence society quite unlike an 
owner of a small business. The ways 
that they interact with society and the 
roles associated with having such an 
interface differ radically. Thus, for one 
or the other, ethical correlation might 
present itself more directly. What this 
means is simply that one man needs to 
regard direct ethics as opposed to side
long ethics.
In my example, I think most would 
abide to the declaration that the small 
business owner (say, named Tetsuo) 
deals with ethics more nakedly than the 
air-compressor-toggling mechanical en
gineer (lets say, Dr. Sload). Throughout 
Tetsuos day, he must deal with immedi
ate consequences to his decisions and 
their ethical validity: A) If he fires a good 
man, the good man and his family will 
suffer unjustly, which could eternally 
rest on Tetsuos conscience if the good 
man chose to commit suicide thereafter. 
B) It might be cheaper to dump the 
companys garbage into the nearby brook, 
or release an illegal amount of danger
ous emmissions into the environment. 
However, the legal problems and 
Tetsuos conscience (or concern for his 
and others posterity) will chide him into 
making the righteous decision.
Tetsuo must deal with ethics daily; 
they are a fundamental element in his 
routine. Now, consider Sloads case. 
Lets say, he nudges a slot in his air 
compressor standard model which causes 
it to blow up when the hand drill is used 
for two hours without interruption.
Unless a fanatic driller manages to 
use a hand drill for two hours straight, 
Dr. Sload will never even know he dealt 
with an ethical problem when revolu
tionizing the air compressor.
If Sload does consider ethics, it will be 
an ethics too distant to instill fear or 
ethical weight upon his compressor de
cisions. In truth, his work does not nec
essarily require a familiarity with ethi
cal concepts; his is a virtual ethics: when 
it does come up, he merely instructs his 
intellect to be more meticulous in his
calculations where they might affect hu
mans or their safety. But, most  or 
much of  scientific work does not di
rectly affect humans in the way that 
Tetsuos work does, and Sload can go 
back to.being less careful  and less 
ethical  about his calculations.
My point? Ethics and fields of study do 
not always relate to each other in com
patible or adhesive fashions. Of course, 
every field has its ethical worries. And 
so does every unrolling of toilet paper. 
But, such a hiatus exists between the 
degree with which ethics affects one 
field in contrast to another that an Ab
solute Ethical Inclusion theory cannot 
apply to all fields of study.
If Logouda studies Mathematics, she 
is entitled to worrying less about ethics 
than her friend Semotoi, who studies 
Medicine. I think ethics should indeed 
serve as a crux to facing the importance 
of ones studies, but do not see it either 
as a necessity or an impediment to(func
tioning in society.
If the Sloads of the world thought too 
much about the ethical implications of 
their work, they would turn into manda
rin-robed ascetics, totter their way up 
the Himalayas, and leave us with handdrills that blow up after two hours of 
continuous usage.
Bharat Bhat is a sophomore JECE and 
philosophy major. He welcomes any re
sponsible replies to his column.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 19977
ufSjrefs errj fO sfOL iObLCFAeAen
Jeff Thibert
Lets talk about whining. Im willing to bet 
I that weve all done it countless times during 
our respective stays at CMU, and that well 
jail continue to do it until we graduate, at 
J which time we can either start complaining 
I about graduate school or the rat race. Now, 
I typically, the term complain has negative 
I connotations.
j So, why do we do this? Have you ever 
J wondered? Have you ever even noticed that 
I we do this so often?
I Well, I have noticed it among the students, 
I and I think that one reason we complain so 
 often is because we feel the need to vent 
I almost constantly. Thats understandable, 
I thoughCMUs a tough school, and classes 
| can get to us sometimes, so we feel better 
when we complain about them.
Heres an example: Lets say Im having 
trouble in 15-127. (Imagine that!) So, I call 
the class dumb and worthless, wondering 
why we could ever need to know all that crap 
we learn in there (when will I ever need 
mathematical induction outside of class?), 
and my day brightens immeasurably.
Brightens, that is, until I have to sit down 
and tackle the material again; and then its 
stress city, all over again  as much as I 
complain, Im always going to have to come 
back to the work, so complaining just wastes 
my time because its only a temporary relief. 
And this short-term relief is hardly justified 
in the long term, not only because its fleet
ing, but also because it comes only at the 
expense of others happiness.
See, when Im feeling pretty happy about 
my life, the last thing that I want to hear is 
somebody telling me how terrible things are 
with class, or life in general.
That just depresses me, and I end up 
writing an article like this, complaining about
the complainers! Putting aside the hy
pocrisy for now, though, there have to be 
other ways to vent.
For example, if you need to complain, 
then write about it. Maybe you can write 
an email to a friend and then just not 
send it (silent venting).
Of course, there are other ways to 
vent, and ultimately, we wouldnt have 
to vent at all if we could see things in a
a difficult class, and then I did what I 
could  to learn things as well as 
possible and if I made a C on that 
quiz, or only got half the points on that 
homework, I realized that it didnt 
matter in the long run (there are more 
important things in life than my 127 
grade).
I just made sure to learn from my 
mistakes. So proper perspective can
proper perspective.
Back to my 15-127 example. If Im 
having difficulties, then I should just 
admit to myself that its hard, that I 
cant do it by myself, and that I need to 
go get help.
This example is somewhat reality-based 
(like one of those inane TV movies): The 
class is hard, but Im not just complaining 
about it. (Well, all right, I do sometimes, 
but Im getting better.)
Rather, I recognized that it was simply
Mark Adato/Tartan Assistant Art Editor 
take away a need to vent, which can 
take away a need to complain, which 
can actually make you (and others) 
happier people.
But what about the other times we 
complain, when were not just venting? 
What if we complain just to complain? 
Like how some people are towards the 
Purnell Center.
Well, think about it: you might as 
well be optimistic about it because, 
unless youre one of the more highly
ranked officials here, youre not going to be 
able to do a thing about it.
In fact, most times when we complain 
just to complain, its absolutely worth
less, because we cant do much about it 
anyway. Take the time youd spend com
plaining and do something concrete in
stead; complaining alone gets you nowhere. 
Maybe, though, people are complaining to 
fit in!
Lets say that I want to get to know the 
people in my biology class a little better, 
but I dont really have anything to say to 
them. Well, wait  I can always com
plain to them about class!
We have that in common, right?
So Ill make fun of the teacher, or talk 
about how impossible the class is, or ... 
well, you get the point.
Complaining to make friends is point
less, though, because friendship based 
solely on a common link of complaint 
probably isnt going to turn out to be 
much of a friendship at all; I tend to look 
for deeper connections in my friends.
So there are plenty of reasons to com
plain, and there are really plenty of things 
about which to complain, even if I do, 
perhaps, make it seem as if the com
plaints center around classes and con
struction.
I chose these two because they seem to 
be hot topics around here.
Perhaps my arguments will make you 
think a little; but if they dont, then at 
least try this little experiment: Try lis
tening to people sometime when theyre 
whining about something or other, and 
think objectively about what theyre say
ing and how it sounds.
Tune in attentively  Ill bet that you 
wont like what you hear and think: Do 
you want to hear this in yourself?
Jeff Thibert is a freshman in the Univer
sity Choice program. He is bent on trying to 
make people happier. He welcomes respon
sible replies to his column.
ICAefOe FjbAeAsfcFfAOe crrgs OT iOccSLfAOe
 S
James Stepanek
Back in the days of the 
Watergate hearings, there was a 
large quest for a smoking gun: a 
piece of evidence which would be. 
blatant enough' to finally send 
Nixon packing.
It took quite a while for one to 
surface, but when it did, things 
went quickly after that. The piece 
of evidence was a missing section 
of some tapes which were kept for 
biographical purposes. Right now, 
another smoking gun in the con
temporary scandals may well 
have come out, and its on tape 
again.
Clinton has been having his 
presidential reign captured on 
video for posterity (actually van
ity), and the release of the tapes 
is getting him in trouble much 
like in Watergate.
Well, I suppose, as a contrast, 
Nixon did erase his tape, while 
the coffee videos including the 
incriminating evidence from the 
Clinton White House passed on 
through. Actually, just some of 
the incriminating evidence was 
allowed to pass; it appears from
sound tracks which arent wholly 
present and other irregularities 
that some of the tapes may have 
been altered.
The funny thing is that, after 
six months of ignoring requests 
for the tapes from a Senate com
mittee, the White House sent 
them along just as Attorney 
General Janet Reno announced 
that there was no evidence immemos that had come out a while 
back  memos which to Reno 
werent evidence. These were in 
tandem with the renting out of 
the Lincoln Bedroom for around 
$50K a night.
The most interesting thing seen 
in the tapes so far (other than the 
possible editing) has been a sec
tion where Clinton admits using 
soft money to promote his re"The most interesting thing seen in the 
tapes so far (other than the possible ed
iting) has been a section where Clinton 
admits using soft money to promote his 
re-election campaign.
plicating the president. Of 
course, there already was evi
dence, even though many key 
witnesses have fled the coun
try. Yet this new bit was so 
blatant that even Reno had to 
start looking like she was on 
the job.
These tapes are from the fa
mous coffee klatches. These were 
fundraising events where time 
with Clinton was sold for $15K a 
head. They had been discussed in
election campaign.
I know most people dont know 
what soft money is, so Ill give a 
quick run-down. Under the cur
rent campaign finance laws, do
nations are divided into two 
types  hard money and soft 
money. Hard money is quite 
straightforward: It is the money 
that is given directly to a 
politicians campaign.
A single donor can give a 
maximum of $1000 in a single
year. Soft money donations 
can be of unlimited amounts, 
but can only be given to par
ties, not candidates, and can
not be used for anything other 
than party-building activities.
This means that I can give a 
check for $50K to the Democrats 
(not bloody likely), and they can 
spend this on ads which promote 
their views against those of their
-------- opponents, but cannot
use the money for ads 
which promote a specific 
candidate, or as part of 
such an election program. 
Yes, I know this is .a bit 
convoluted, but thats the 
law.
So where did Clinton 
go wrong? Well, on one of
-------- the videos, he came out
and bragged to his do
nors how he had found a way to 
use the big donations in his favor.
He talked about using soft 
money to design and run com: 
mercials in areas where he had 
done poorly in the previous elec
tion, and how this allowed him to 
just go after the big donors.
The tape shows that he was 
quite proud of finding his way 
around the laws, and using the 
soft money to prop up his poll 
number (which he bragged about).
This is a clear example of a smok
ing gun.
He both conspired to violate, 
and did violate, the campaign fi
nance laws which do exist. This is 
illegal, plain and simple.
If one did have a reason to ad
mire a man for being a scoundrel, 
one would certainly admire 
Clinton. Even as the extent to 
which he manhandled and broke 
the current finance laws is be
coming public, he has been push
ing for new laws.
Of course, these new laws dont 
give a damn about constitutional 
free speech concerns.
Of course, they also assume 
that for some reason people will 
be more likely to follow them 
than the current ones which 
Clinton and company have so 
blithely disregarded.
Of course, the press doesnt 
have the common sense or the 
journalistic integrity to bother 
running down these stories  
not that Im surprised. Im just 
hoping that eventually people will 
get sick enough of the sleaze to 
finally shut them down.
James Stepanek is a PhD can
didate in materials science engi
neering. He welcomes any respon
sible replies to his column.
A PERSONS
At the International Festi
val this weekend, we had a 
small taste of what its like in 
Africa. Well, that made us 
wonder about all the neat 
places in the world, so, we 
asked students: Ifyou could 
come from any other coun
try, where would it be? 
compliled by Vy Ty Mai and Anna Fortin
Hillary Carey
Sophomore
Design
Peru, because of the history 
of the Incan civilization.
France. They have good skiing Spain. I like the culture and 
and Im fluent in French. traditions and I took Spanish!
i\arari nanus
Freshman
Chemistry
Greenland  because its ice.
JturK vanee
Freshman
ChemE
Sophomore
MechE
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon's Student Newspaper Since 1906
Editor-in-Chief..............Sharmila
Venkatasubban
Managing Editor..........Ena Khan
Business Manager....Amit Sheth
News Editor...................Daniel Arp
Forum Editor.....................Jennifer
Garcia de Osuna
Sports Editor.............Chris Cannon
Features Editor...Becky A. Cowser 
Acting Diversions Editor. .Anne Ray -
Calendar Editor.....Kevin AuYoung .0
Dossier Design Co-Editors .... Matt 
Tragesser, Kiera Westphal
Dossier Literary Editors.........Lilian
Lee, Marshall Warfield
Art Editor.....................Julee White
Photo Editor.............Anthony Chao
Production Manager..Kevin Babbitt 
Advertising Manager. Stephen Hsu : 
Systems Manager.... Craig Soules
Copy Manager..........Victor Ortega
Asst. News Editor.. Ryan Schilling 
Asst. Forum Editor ..Rebecca Fribush -
Asst. Diversions Editor.........Ryan 
Donovan ;
Asst. Art Editor......... Mark Adato 1
Asst. Production Mgr........William 
Holtz
Photo Staff Manager.......Brian Smith
Darkroom Mgr.....................Lisette '
Miller-Dixon , 
Personnel Manager... Paul Boothe
Contributing Editors 
Kenneth Kraemer, Jay Miolla, 
Tracy Odell, Jason Siegendorf
Senior Staff 
Gil Alterovitz, Jessica Strelitz, 
Susan Watson
Staffwriters 
Neema Avashia, Justin Cina, Matt 
Cuccaro, Dave Elman, Sheila 
Flanagan, Charles Fryman, Rhonda 
Gillespie, Elizabeth Irvine, Nathan 
Los, Carrie Jones-McGuire, Ryan 
Kellogg, Wladimir Labeikovsky, Alex 
Lewin, Vy Ty Mai, Greg Marcks, 
Maureen McGranaghan, Trevor 
Meyerowitz, Stacey Reed, Nia 
Rodgers, Jaya Saxena, Scott Shell, 
Reena Singhal, Nathan Steinwald, 
James Stepanek, Ryan Wiilhite
Art
Neil Babra, Tom Birdsey, James 
Mojonnier, Tony Yu
Comics
Akira Hasegawa, Hiromi ' 
Hasegaawa, James Mojonnier, 
Dave Wingrove, Mike Yeh
Photo
Anna Fortin, Stacey Tetzlaff, 
Michelle Ungerer
Darkroom 
Ava Bai, Eva Bai, Amy Crisostomo, 
Elias Fallon, Maria Gimenez, Daniel 
Klein, Samuel Listopad, Paul Moore, 
Diana Rutherford, Erica Yamada
Production 
Rengie Chan, Derek Greentree, Blake 
Engel, Filipe Fortes, Maria 
Manautou, Seth Mandel, Tammy 
Manski, Greg Nofi, Andrea Okerholm, 
Michael Pudup, Diana Rutherford, 
Rimas Svarcas, Daniel Wu
Copy
David Elman, Dianne Gigler, Lorelei 
Laird, Heather Keith, Helena 
McGahagan, Matthew McHenry, 
Andrew Thompson, Joanne Wei
Business 
Kevin Fine, Michael Y Kan, Na Y 
Lee, Norman Mok, Nikil Shah, Palak 
Shah, Vikas Sood, Toshi Takano, 
Irene Tan
Junior Staff 
Douglas Beeferman, Steve Bidwa, 
Luke Brindle, Brendan Bosworth, 
David Bazelon, Bharat Bhat, James 
Carney, Jason Crawford, Susie 
Cribbs, Noah Donaldson, Ian Downey, 
Andrew Francis, Cormac Eubanks, 
Katy Harnes, Andrew Hollopeter, 
Ryan Laird, Emily Landes, John Lee, 
Anand Marathe, Alex Markle, Art 
Oberoi, Ping Pan, Paulette Poulle, 
Rob Punkunus, Jeff Thibert, Seldon 
Yuan
The Tartan is the student newspaper of 
Carnegie Mellon University. It is a weekly 
newspaper published by students during 
the fall and spring semesters, at no cost 
to members of the University community. 
It is printed by Western Pennsylvania 
Printing, Inc. Subscriptions are available 
for the semester or academic year. The 
editorials appearing at the beginning of 
the opinion section are the official opinion 
of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of 
individual creators. The Tartan reserves 
the right to reject or condense any column 
or political cartoon. Letters to the Editor 
are opinions of authors who are usually, 
but not necessarily, members of the 
University community. A letter intended 
for publication must be signed and include 
the writer's address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan requests that 
letters be no longer than 500 words. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter. Copyright  1997 by The 
Tartan. The Tartaneditorial board reserves 
the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314 Phone: 412/ 
268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 17/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/Pittsburgh, PA 
15213-3890
Email: tartan@andrew.cmu.edu 
Funded in part by your Activities 
Fee. All rights reserved. Library of 
Congress ISSN ft: 0890-3107. The Tartan 
is a member of the Associated Press.

---------------------------------------------------


T


o
rC
HIM
4
V)
CU
o
iw S
4)4)01
7 U 7 5Is 
S3 M 
CQ -
V) &
ta o nUs
d oPi *s ^ 
p-^ w *3
Is>
05 
05 (ft
CJ
h O 
0) 
5
-au
01
>o
;
s*oo
*v
K 
td
'Df=0
He roreAen 
xAf/
Hej aAi/frc
of Late Night with Conan OBrien
Ge
Monday November 8, 1997, 8 pm,
Rangos Ballroom,
2 Free tickets with CMU ID in advance,
$3 at the door 
Tickets available October 27th at the info desk 
Sponsored by your student activity fee.
9rx 2OcAzOes
As you visualize what you want from your future, 
consider what AT&T Solutions has to offer: a world-class 
professional services firm, unparallelled resources, 
and opportunities to work on the most compelling 
management and technological challenges of our time.
Find out more about us on the Internet and then check 
with career services for all the details. AT&T Solutions 
Systems Integration will hold an information session 
on campus:
Tuesday, October 28,1997 
6:30 p.m. - 8:00 p.m. 
Wean Hall, Room 7500
AT&T Solutions is an Equal Opportunity Employer.
We welcome and encourage diversity in the workplace.
AT&T
tttaJooab!AT&!"Eov!l&
AT&T SOLUTIONS

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 19979zreir jrsrcors bOcr crsLrif
TjTfOcOt fWj
Jason Crawford
In the wee small hours of 
the morning on Saturday, Oc
tober 18, several other mem
bers of the CMU Objectivist 
Club and I painted the Fence, 
covering up Communist sym
bols and slogans and replac
ing them with dollar signs and 
praise for capitalism.
The Fence stood as we left it 
for all of Saturday, and I hoped 
to see it that way through Sun
day, as well.
My hopes rose as I saw the 
Fence unchanged at 1:30 am 
Sunday morning.
When I returned two hours 
later, however, the Fence had 
been vandalized.
Not painted over, but liter
ally vandalized. Someone with 
a couple of cans of spray paint 
had changed and distorted our 
words, leaving the Fence to 
equate capitalism with fas
cism and stupidity.
The majority of the Fence
Thus, I meet many people who 
disagree with me on fundamen
tal principles. Whenever I speak 
or discuss or argue, however, I 
retain a certain respect for ideas 
as such, not just the ideas I 
personally hold.
The Fence itself, whose very pur
pose is none other than to broadcast 
messages to the entire campus, is a 
symbol of [respect for ideas]. 
stood as it had two hours ear
lier; but the essential parts had 
been mutilated.
I decided that while I did not 
have the resources to repair the 
Fence, I could at least make 
sure that the derogatory com
ments did not last until dawn.
With a brush and a can of 
white paint from the closet in 
Doherty Hall, I covered over the 
markings, leaving the Fence in 
a confused and disorderly state. 
I returned to my room disheart
ened and disgusted.
I had expected to see the Fence 
covered. I had not expected to 
see it desecrated. The vandalization of the Fence is an attack 
on one of the fundamental prin
ciples of this university: the 
principle that ideas are 
important.As a student of phi
losophy, I hold opinions on al
most every intellectual topic, 
from metaphysics to morality 
to economics.
As a student of objectivism, 
the philosophy of Ayn Rand, 
most of my ideas run counter to 
the dominant opinions of today.
However wrong I may judge 
another person to be, I still hold 
him in esteem simply for think
ing, for having a mind and be
ing willing to use it.
As an institution of learn
ing, Carnegie Mellon Univer
sity has always respected 
ideas in this way, and this has 
been a defining part of its 
spirit and character.
CMU has always realized 
that in order for ideas to pros
per, ideas must be regarded 
as important  that people 
may disagree on which ideas 
are right and on which ideas 
are moral, but that they must 
always have the common 
ground of ideas as such.
The Fence itself, whose very 
purpose is none other than to 
broadcast messages to the en
tire campus, is a symbol of this.
Those who desecrated the 
Fence, however, rejected this 
premise. Their aim was not to 
promote their ideas, but to ridi
cule ours.
Nothing they left on the Fence 
supported any position; every
eC &1-
POINT PARK COLLEGE THEATRE COMPAN
ByMICHE LA N cIoHlCHE n
s>
IN YOUR FACE DRAMA IN YOUR FACE IIUKNI II I'.s IN YOUR FACE IN THI.'I III, VI KliDOWNSTAIRS
cIoHlCHE A N iz
gUadtBher fhcvBs utvUpsrc,e wtrawsr TEHOHDMO
The QP0{I9\[CESS and the <PE!A
ByMICHE Lq NcIoHlCHE iz
722 M* $5----------
Mark Adato/Tartan Assistant Art Editor
word was meant to distort what 
we had originally put there. 
They did not seek to claim the 
Fence for themselves, only to 
take it away from us.
This is not the method of the 
thinker, who seeks to defeat his 
opponents on intellectual 
grounds, by means of discourse 
and argument. This is the 
method of the child who fights 
his opponents with jeers and 
name-calling.
If those who disagreed with 
us had painted the entire Fence, 
replacing our words with praise 
for socialism or altruism or reli
gion or any other idea, they 
would have at least retained 
the dignity that belongs to those 
who think.
By using a constructive, in
tellectual method, instead of a 
destructive and anti-intellectual one, they would have left 
the way open for discussion, 
debate, and, eventually, intel
lectual progress. But by turn
ing the Fence into a mockery, 
they left only a sneer upon the 
campus and a bitter taste in 
everyones mouth.
The vandalization of the 
Fence shows a great disrespect 
for ideas. It betrays an intel
lectual nihilism whose only 
purpose is to destroy the ideas 
of others.
As such, it flies in the face of 
the spirit of the Fence and of 
this University.
Jason Crawford is a fresh
man computer science major. He 
welcomes any responsible replies 
to his column. His opinions do 
not necessarily reflect those of 
the CMU Objectivist Club.
zrsfAoFC crTCrifs LOOc LCFeeAen
Editor's Notebook
Couscous, lots and lots of 
couscous  thats what this 
years International Festival 
meant to me. At lunch time on 
Friday, I was able to walk into 
Rangos Hall and order a plate
ful of this delicious North Afri
can grain.
Anything which brings good 
food to campus is a treat. Yet 
an International Festival 
should mean a bit more than 
just an opportunity for an ex
otic lunch.
Well, I could have cut my 
classes on that Friday after
noon to go to an African drum
ming workshop. I could have 
skipped some homework the 
night before or any other 
evening that week to see any 
number of interesting-sound
ing speakers and films. I could 
have gone to several programs 
on Saturday if I didnt need 
that afternoon for work.
But thats precisely where the 
problem lies. The University 
expends so much time and ef
fort to give us all of these nifty 
cultural opportunities.
Yet, no one thought to lessen 
our academic burden for this 
week. Were left juggling typi
cally gargantuan workloads, 
with next to no time to take 
advantage of all of these great 
opportunities.
So many of these events were 
scheduled during weekday af
ternoons. I dont know about 
you, but Im pretty busy at
tending classes during those
times. How many students did 
they really expect to be able to 
attend a panel discussion on Eth
nic Gridlock and Politics in Af
rica in the oh-so-convenient time 
slot of 34 pm last Wednesday?
Even worse, the students who 
would make the effort to attend 
such programs are probably the 
ones whod be wracked with the 
most guilt if they cut class to do 
so. Its also pretty difficult to make
how beautifully it would solve 
the problem.
But Student Activities 
could realistically shift some 
of the events around, making 
it easier for students to actu
ally attend them.
For example, the Sunday of 
the International Festival 
this year didnt have much 
scheduledto occur. Next year, 
maybe more could happen on
",International Festival should 
mean a bit more than just an op
portunity for an exotic lunch. 
time to attend weekday evening 
programs, especially when 
crushed under the midsemester 
deluge of exams and assignments.
Obviously, all of the Interna
tional Festival events are forced 
to squeeze into a couple of days 
time. In order to fit them in, its 
understandable that some of 
them will have to take place 
during afternoon class time or 
busy evenings.
But these problems can be 
solved. Imagine a pristine, beau
tiful, class-free Friday. With this 
big fat chunk of time just waiting 
to be filled with activities, thered 
be no need to schedule events for 
Wednesday afternoon.
More importantly, students 
would have time to attend 
these activities without con
signing themselves to staying 
up until sunrise doing home
work while humming African 
tunes to themselves.
Okay, a three-day weekend for 
International Festival is probably 
not going to happen, no matter
Sunday and less could be 
stuffed into the week. That 
way, students could attend 
without needing to put classes 
or homework aside.
Or perhaps there could be a 
greater focus on activities 
such as exhibits that can re
main open throughout the 
week while people attend at 
their convenience.
It would be great if better 
scheduling permitted me to 
participate more in the Inter
national Festival when it fo
cuses on Europe next year. 
But, if nothing else, I know I 
can look forward to the chance 
to nibble on yummy French 
baguettes and Italian pasta.
Becca Fribush is a sopho
more social history major and 
the Tartan Assistant Forum 
Editor. Shed live entirely on 
couscous and other starchy 
foods if she could. She wel
comes any responsible replies 
to her column.
They wrote WHAT?!?!?! 
Moved by what The Tartan printed 
... or what they didnt ?
Write a Letter to the Editor
Email Tartan+@andrew.cmu.edu 
or drop one off at UC 314, Forum box
RESPONSIBILITY
CHALLENGE
AND
THE CHANCE 
TO MAKE 
A DIFFERENCE
ZS CaarnegiMa ea gl eliMolgierlgU vglgsMvMli nrlatUiels
y27O cbc21C9bc 9. Sbhm2Vk 1.OmCV2bu C1S2mEKyE h.Vk hCu92Vk 
1.Omb9292Kb CcKCV9Ckb 2V OC7Ab92Vk CVc uChbuE
ZS G2hh zb .V 1COm,u 7b17,292Vk
Business Information Specialists 
Software Developers
Carn eg iaM l oMUgUnvlvran lns MUtUovran
November 10 
7:00 pm
Scaife Hall, Room 224
Zu
To eHDsHOmlO I( (I vD)IElbMIDGZS Assodateti fluttuiil Resource 1800 Sherman Avenue Evunsum, IL 60201 TEL: 8J7.492.3600 FAX: 847.492.3409 EMAIL cslir&z.vuisociates.com 
ctcu. zsassnates. cam
Euttwm, Illinois Princctim, New Jersey Menla Pnrh, California
Rcaditifi, Eufiknul Frankfurt, Germany Paris, France
JkNYUbSbbrc
1 Over 1,000 undergraduate 
and graduate courses 
 Housing rates as low as $ 100 
per six-week session
Session I: May I8-June 26 
Session II: June 29-August 7
elu"vli nE""iovlfooNwTTtttalrEaikET&EAAiIT
s!I J cIii mEAAiI nE""iovlwSuAJv"w &EAAiIp^aJkFlrEaikE sJO !I AJv" ofi b!EN!l Ri"!ta
New York University Office of Summer Sessions 
P.O. Box 911, New York, NY 10211-0221 
Fax: (212) 99S4103
Please send me a free 1998 Summer Bulletin (available in January).
SOC.SEC.NO.New York University is an affirmative action/equal opportunity institution.
U!R eNN!IoElvovi& c!I 
s!IivYl moEkilo&
RAAB Associates is seeking / y \
qualified foreign students [ Ipfc
tor opportunities with multiUL1 y
national companies in need \ . W-jLT^y
of representatives overseas. \// 7
Full-time jobs and internships
are among the possibilities RAAB Associates
tor students who are returning 2 Penn Center Plaza, Suite 200
home upon graduation. Philadelphia. PA 19102
Fluency in middle eastern or ..............
Asian languages is D . A . A # D
prefernbie. Pfeaseaeni/ resume * \ *  / *
to RAAB Associates...or via ASSOCIATES
e-mail to rayraab@aol.com Export Management Company

---------------------------------------------------

*H '
f Sr\ A
the prospect of ^*Vj| 
'^r shoppping online makes 
Jr you feel as if youve walked into > 
f the lecture hall in your birthday suit, \ 
we've got you covered.
' mEIc ofi PioD Jlk f!!k EN tvof ofi
b!!"i&o N"Jbi& o! &f!N
' L!Jk r!EI MJ&oiIGJIk Jbb!Elo vlc! 
vlo! r!EI GrRiIGJ&f WJ""io Jlk &f!N
tvof AJOvAEA &ibEIvor 
v ' L!!k c!I H!o DiJ"& tfil E&vlY t 
cbD MJ&oiIGJIk !l"vli A
CHECK OUT OUR WEB 
SITES FOR MORE 
INFO
(Fej /r jSsf LFAj $2 TOc f/r TFffrsf x/Ocr Ae 9rx lOejOettt)
It's a tale fit for Geraldo.
Or Jenny Jones. Or Sally.
But this s no white-trash, 
trailer-park confessional.
It's the autobiographical masterpiece by 
4-time Pulitzer Prize winner Eugene O'Neill.
And this story of America's first and most 
famous dysfunctional family is 
only at the Public.
kSnrer 1'9rACC
ALL TICKETS. ALL SHOWS. 
Under 25 / FulltimeuwUdk9wu $10
October 9 thru November 16IFCC 321U9800
Allegheny Square - Northside 
pUtsbuttilj iJost-aEcttc
79 LM91 1 KMIFCrejctjsATObbis2HU9wkjdOolAnjszS
zaAjH31Iw1bka 5 1
JackieK Kc you bySDC ANd net Hill RESidENTiAl ,Kfrr
The Core of High Performance Netwo^cing
On Tuesday, October 28th FORE systems Presents:
Dr. Robert Sansom
(Former Computer Science professor at Carnegie Mellon University and one of the foy
"Evolution of Network Infrastructure"
 Time: 4:30 pm
 Location: Wean Hall 7500
Information Session to follow presentation ^
ao<*soda'
 Time: 6:30 pm
 Location: Wean Hall 5409
Come to learn more about the leader in ATM Networkin
FORE
SYSTEMS
e Forefront of ATM Networking
lrFce bOcr FbOSf Ss Ff xxxtTOcrtiOb

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 199711
IOCSbeAsf LAigs Oe /AbsrCT Fej FxFcj xAeercs
contribute to the predictions; got 
hit by a car after running a red 
light while riding my bike). Sev
eral previous columns you may 
haver read in certain newspa
pers have dealt with making 
predictions. Most writers are been 
incorrect, and the last such pre
diction from a campus paper, 
which discussed the playoffs, was 
no exception. But when the Braves 
were eliminated after being picked 
them to dominate the postseason, 
at least one writer became clini
cally insane. A doctor, who treats 
patients in Pittsburgh, believes that 
it is mentally un
healthy for some
one who claims to 
know so much 
aboutbaseball to be 
wrong so fre
quently. Neverthe
less, thats what 
columns are for, so here are several.
How bout this World Series, 
eh? Never before have have two 
more deserving baseball teams
competed in so many well played will vote on several awards. I know 
games. Everything from the um1 I havent exactly been too accurate 
piring to the defense has been A with past predictions, but I have 
flawless. And I think it is safe to / \ an inside source this year. Here 
say that I wasnt the only one very I \ are the categories: 
much impressed by John I \ Pitcher of the 
Denvers renditionofthe I \ Year  Sy This 
Star Spangled K Ban\ has to / / be a tie
ner prior to Game \ I \ / I b e
1 of the series. As \ I \ l \ ^----------
for the outcome, it \ If ff/
may be too early to \ ^ -
call, but that has \ _^ly JsT/JL si
never stopped me be\ em
fore. The Braves may \ i I /T~ i
still have some \ I *
surprises
up their s' \J / /
sleeves in C\s ^s[ /
years to come. \ / ^
Shortly after /s-___________/ \\ \ \ \
the conclusion / f _ " / (11 1 \ I I I
ofthegreatest (\ /^\ (\ K//; \ A
World Series \ \ ( Y-J 'iT^'VV 11 J I
since the 1983 \\
classic between the \ \ \
Orioles and Phillies, Tony Yu/Tartan Art Staff
the Baseball Writers of America ///..-----
tween Wade Boggs and Gary 
Gaetti. Both went undefeated 
with ERAs of 0.00.
Executive of the YearGeorge 
Steinbrenner, for encouraging di
versity among his Yankees by hav
ing Japans mediocre minor league 
pitcher/con artist Hidelri Irabu play 
alongside deserving major league 
ballplayers.
Sportscaster of the 
I J Year  All of them, for 
w / making so many necessary 
krv anc* insightful statements 
rW all season long.
[,W Most likely to lose a bet 
f that hell be inducted in the 
k Hall of Fame  Pete Rose, 
v/ Whats the deal with bagpipes? Arentthey the worst 
/ls\ excuse for a musical instru' 11 \ \ ment you have ever seen?
1AI \\ ^ S a sewn UP/\\\\ broken flutes that con/ \\ \ stantly whine. And every1 \ \ \ \ one that plays it can only 
v I \ play one song. Man,bag*- J. pipes annoy me, almost
as much as vegetarians do.
Like I always say, its never too 
early to look at next season. 1998 
should have all the excitement 
1997 did, and more. Heres a list 
of what to expect:
Pitcher of the Year  Den
nis Eckersley, Boston Red Sox.
Comeback Players of the 
Year  Ken Griffey, Jr. and 
Pedro Martinez.
Most likely Triple Crown 
Winner  Otis Nixon.
Most likely to be injured all 
season long  Jose Rijo.
So thats all there is to say about 
that. The aforementioned doctor 
says its only a matter of time 
before a full recovery for the af
flicted person. Im feeling much 
better too. Go Braves!
Car neg ieMlrM
oU vsgg ityysMe
The seven of you who read this 
space may have noticed the ab
sence of baseball predictions the 
past few weeks. This has been 
the case because of a lengthy hosPitcher of the Year... has 
to be a tie between Wade 
Boggs and Gary Gaetti. Coox is not feeling better at all. 
He is writing this week only be
cause his psychiatrist said that 
he should, or else he might snap. 
Coox was last seen playing with 
matches somewhere in Wean Hall.
pital stay by a person who may or 
may not contribute to such pre
dictions (and not because the per
son, who again, may or may notMFcCAes xAe Ae bFsrbFCCgame to move to Monday night. ABC 
will broadcast the game in the Chicago 
and Miami markets while the rest of 
the country gets the scheduled Green 
Bay-New England game.
MIAMI (CNN/SI)  Before this season, 31 Darren Daulton couldnt get the ball out; 
World Series went to a deciding seventh of his glove, losing a chance to force Thome 
game. Rest assured that none of them was at third.
more thrilling or gut-wrenching for particiOmar Vizquel popped to shortstop and 
pants and fans than the one played out SunFernandez singled up the middle on a beltday night in a packed Pro Player Stadium, high 2-1 fastball.
Edgar Renteria lined a two-out basesFernandez was the hero of Clevelands 
loaded single to center to score Craig game six clincher against Baltimore in the 
Counsell with the winningrun as the Florida American League Championship Series, 
Marlins beat the Cleveland Indians 3-2 in hitting an 1 lth-inning homer off Armando
11 innings to become the youngest team to Benitez for a 1-0 victory. Fernandez 
win the World Series. started that game because Bip Roberts
Cleveland took a 2-1 lead into the bottom had an injured hand. He was starting 
ofthe ninth, but reliever Jose Mesa couldnt Sunday because Roberts was bothered by 
close the deal. Moises Alou singled leading the flu, which forced him from Saturday 
off, Bobby Bonilla struck out and Charles nights game in the fifth inning.
Johnson singled Alou to third. Craig Florida advancedjust one runner to third
Counsell then lifted a fly ball to medium in the first six innings. Daulton reached on 
right, and Alou scored easily. Jim Eisenreich a three-base error when Manny Ramirez 
made the final out of the inning as a World missed his fly to right, but Moises Alou 
Series game seven stretched into extra inflied to center on the next pitch, 
nings for only the fifth time. The Indians and Marlins set the record
Florida could have won it in the bottom of for most walks by two teams in a Series 
the tenth. With runners at first and second when Wright walked Renteria in the third 
and one out, journeyman John Cangelosi, inning. Each team walked four in the first 
pinch-hitting for reliever Robb Nen, struck six innings, giving them 72, three more 
out looking on a 3-2 count. Then Alou, facing than the Brooklyn Dodgers and New York 
right-hander Charles Nagy, looked at one Yankees combined for in 1947, which had 
pitch before flying out to shallow right. been the previous record. The 38 walks by 
Cleveland, trying for its first World SeFlorida pitchers tied the Series record set 
ries title since 1948 and looking to avoid its by Brooklyn that year, 
second Series loss in three seasons, started With the Series forced to a game seven
21-year-old right-hander Jaret Wright. for the first time since 1991, the crowd of 
Wright, the son of former major league 67,000-plus at Pro Player Stadium was up 
pitcher Clyde Wright, allowed only two hits on its feet cheering more than ten minutes 
the last a long homer by Bobby Bonilla in before the first pitch, waiting to see the 
the seventh  through six and a third Marlins win in just their fifth season, the 
innings. He was bidding to become the first fastest ever. The 1969 New York Mets 
rookie in 88 years to win a seventh game of were the youngest franchise to win, doing 
the World Series. it in their eighth season.
Clevelands Tony Fernandez hit a twoWright, chosen by Indians manager Mike
run single off Florida left-hander A1 Leiter Hargrove following game six to start the 
in the third inning to give the Indians a 2- finale instead of Charles Nagy, won game
0 lead. four, allowing three runs and five hits in
Leiter gave up four hits in six innings, six innings. Wright became the first rookie 
struck out seven and walked four. Dennis to start game seven since Joe Magrane for 
Cook relieved to start the seventh. St. Louis in 1987 and only the seventh
Jim Thome walked to lead off the third, overall. The only rookie to win a seventh 
Marquis Grissom singled, and Wright game was Babe Adams of Pittsburgh, who 
sacrificed them over after first baseman beat Detroit 8-0 on a six-hitter in 1909.
Barkley arrestedSeries forces two 
Monday games
Miami, Florida (Reuters) In a very 
rare occurrence, there will be more 
than one Monday Night Football game 
because ofthe World Series. The Mi
ami Dolphins had been set to play 
Sunday in a home game against the 
Chicago Bears.
But the Dolphins' home field is Pro 
Player Stadium near Miami  where 
the Florida Marlins are hosting the 
Cleveland Indians in the seventh and 
deciding game of the World Series 
Sunday night.
The conflict forced the Dolphins-Bears
ADMINISTRATION
Director: Mike Mastroianni X2-2214; 
Assisstant Director: Mike Grzywinski 
X2-2214; IM Secretary: Amy Kiryk x2- 
2053; IM President: Jeff Jesensky x8- 
2830; Women's President: Katie 
Gallagher X8-3363
Orlanda, Florida (Reuters)  Hous
ton Rockets star forward Charles 
Barkley was arrested early Sunday af
ter a nightclub incident in Orlando, 
Fla. Barkley was charged with aggra
vated battery and resisting arrest after 
throwing a man through a plate glass 
window, police said. Barkley was hav
ing drinks at a downtown nightspot 
when a 20-year-old man began throw
ing ice at Barkley and his party and 
shouting racial epithets, Orlando po
lice Sgt. Bill Mulloy said. Barkley was 
released on $6,000 bond and will be 
arraigned on December 2. Barkley was 
in Orlando for the Rockets' exhibition 
game against the Magic Sunday night.
IMPORTANT DATES
Thursday October 30  Three-Per
son Volleyball rosters due 4:30 pm IM 
office.
Tuesday, November 4  IM board 
meeting 11:30 am Gym Conference 
room.
SPORTS IN SEASON
VOLLEYBALL
Play continues in the UC gym Monday 
through Thursday evenings.WOSen frFb iOefAeSrs 
fO s/Ox AbLcOorbref
TENNIS
The playoffs conclude this week. The 
Majors champs were the team from 
Heinz and the Womens Only champs 
were Siam. In the event of rain, playoff 
teams are asked to contact the IM 
office by 11 am for further instructions.mens team also came out to support the 
women. More fan support, which would 
be nice, is by no means the teams great
est concern.
What we have to work on the most is 
our consistancy, said Fischer. However, 
injuries have hurt the squads efforts to 
build team chemistry.
Every two weeks were forced to 
change the lineup, said Haggerty, who 
seemed optimistic that the team will 
continue to improve.
Were strong this year, and were go
ing to get stronger, said Marrett.
Theyve got a lot of heart, and 
theyve got a lot of freshmen, said Mr. 
Summers. In a year or two, theyll be 
a real power.
IMPROVEMENT, from page 14
I like it better, Pollack said about 
playing in the rain.
Its really not too bad, Haggerty said. 
The [rains] effect on turf isnt the same 
on grass.
The only thing thats really different 
about it is that the ball will skip in a 
different way, said Wall. Although the 
rain didnt wash out the team, it seemed to 
keep some fans from the game.
We need more fan support, sophomore 
Courtney Marrett said playfully after the 
game. A good number of students and 
parents were out for the mens game ear
lier in the evening, but most seemed un
willing to watch consectutive games in the 
rain and the cold.
There was a local under nine girls 
team here tonight, so that was really 
cool, Wall said. About half of the Tartan
CHESS, FOOSBALL, AND 
TEAM TABLE TENNIS
Teams are reminded to play all games 
as scheduled and report scores to the 
IM office.
RACQUETBALL
The matches have begun in the UC 
courts on Monday through Thursday 
evenings. Please play on the reserved 
courts and report scores to the IM 
office.
WATER POLO
Games are underway at the UC pool 
on Monday and Thursday nights at 9 
and 10 pm. Teams are reminded to 
follow all instructions of the Aquatics 
staff at all times.The women play their last game of the 
season Saturday, 1:30 pm at Gesling.BOWLING
The matches are underway at the 
PAA lanes. Teams are reminded to 
bring exact change to pay lane opera
tors as well as a copy of their schedules 
to know what lanes they play on and 
who their opponents are scheduled to 
be. Report those scores.w2kak Hak H zkW uKkI7Hl w279pu w2Hw Wk IH9 
akHllW I1U9w 19 w1 2klK Uu HII1MKl7u2 Hll w2Hw 
Wk9kkdw0 d1t akl7HBlk3 dkKk9 dHBlkw2C9pulAhk 
w2k w1W1wH I1a1llHt 1Rka w2k KHuw 30 WkHaut 
JI0a0llH 2Hu BkI1Mk 19k 1z w2k M1uw waUuwkd 
IHau 79 w2k W1aldt H9d 91W 7w'u HllU9kWtttW7w2 
B M0ak KHuuk9pka H9d waU9h a11M3 H9 Hll'9kW 
^HlUM79UM k9p79k w2Hwu 19lW M1ak K1WkazUl3 
' 7w'u M1ak kI191M7IHltttUK w1 38 M7lku Kka 
11t pHll19 27p2WHWt I1a1llH 7u uHzka H9d
% t QU7kwka3 H9d Bkuw 1z Hll3 7w uwHawu
Hw H Ka7Ik l1Wka w2H9 lHuw 
M %; WkHat M1ak IHatttlkuu
M19kWt W2Hw A 
_ takzaku279p 
S: I2H9pk!
SOCCER
Games are underway at the IM and 
stadium fields. Teams should report at 
scheduled times as any games that will 
be called will be done at the fields. 
Please stay off of practice fields until 
the varsity team is completely off. Teams 
are also reminded to move the goals as 
instructed by the IM staff.
SPORTS UPCOMING
THREE-PERSON VOLLEYBALL
The rosters are due Thursday at 4:30 
Pm in the IM office.
BRIDGE AND BACKGAMMON
Rosters are still being taken in the IM 
office for these leagues.
All-Majors Football Team
Colin Shaunessey - Beta 
Rob Chinchar - Beta 
Tyler Burke - Beta 
Brad McNutt - Beta 
Shane Nagatani - SAE 
Chris Butsko - SAE 
Eric Harris - Hit Squad 
Marcel Phelps - Hit Squad 
Link Brown - Hit SquadTOYOTA
Submitted by 
MIKE GRZYWINSKI

---------------------------------------------------

connection
vision
passion
intelligence
enable
resultsV <fcj  ' H
even
m
in botsuana
w/r LcObAsr OT fri/eOCOn As Fiirsst w/r LcObAsr OT Fiirss As AeTOcbFfAOet uO Af TOCCOxs 
f/Ff AeTOcbFfAOe iFeeOf sfOL Ff f/r bOcjrc3 eO bFffrc x/Ff iOesfAfSfrs f/Ff ObsfFiCrt 
1cFiCr IOcLOcFfAOe As iObbAffrj fO icrFfAen srFbCrss erfxOcgs3 Fej xOcCj iCFss sOCSfAOest 
w/As As OSc brsf s/Of Ff icrFfAen F nCObFC croOCSfAOe Ae f/r Fnr OT AeTOcbFfAOet
1aHIl6
Enabling the Information AgeT
Wr AeoAfr OS fO rxLCOcr f/r xOcCj OT OLLOcfSeAf Ff 1cFiCr IOcLOcFfAOet
1cFiCr OTTrcs nrercOSs iObLresFfAOe Fej SeLFcFCCrCrj brerTAfst KCrFsr TOcxFcj OSc 
crsSbr fOB 1cFiCr IOcLOcFfAOe3 HffeB IOCCrnr aricSAfAen3 500 1cFiCr KFcgxF3
drLfB 20K23 arjxOOj u/Ocrs3 IH 94065t kUbFACB CsCee@SstOcFiCrtiObt
zFxB (408)251U8424t kqSFC fFCref xACC FCxFs nrf rqSFC OLLOcfSeAft
Interview Dates: November 12,13 and 14
Information Session: October 29, 6:00 pm 
University Center 
Schatz Dining Room 
(Win a trip to Cancn!)
www.oracle.com
dr0p everything
{jSsf bFgr sScr f/Ff Af TAfs Ae F bFA7sCOf}
Founded in 1989, Trilogy has grown to 300+ employees by hiring 
graduates from the best schools in the country. As the leading 
provider of enterprise software for sales and marketing
We are looking for top candidates from Carnegie Mellon to join our 
reengineering revolution. Candidates should be extremely aggressive 
and creative. Strong communication and presentation skills are
reengineering, Trilogy is revolutionizing the way products are bought required along with the desire for continuous developent. Only the 
and sold for Fortune 500 companies such as Hewlett-Packard, best need apply.
Chrysler, Boeing and AT&T.
IF YOU HAVENT ALREADY SUBMITTED YOUR RESUME
For technical positions, please send your resume to:
Chris Ostroot 
Recruiter
512.425.3227 K219k 
512.794.8900 zHX 
chris.ostroot@trilogy.com
wa7l1pW
6034 Wkuw I1UawWHad da7Rk HUuw793 wkXHu 78730 
512t794t5900 512t794t8900 zHX WWWtfcACOntiOb

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 199713
WAeCrss TOOfbFCC frFbs nrf bOcr bFj erxs
Car 27Ocb7l 2tl17g
oU iaM7c isllel
Ifhe were still alive, French com
poser Georges Bizet would have 
celebrated his 159th birthday Sat
urday. Bizet composed the music 
for Carmen, whichis an opera about 
a love triangle and bullfighting. 
Its really macho and Ernest 
Hemingway would have loved it. 
One of Carmens songs is the 
March of the Toreadors. Its all 
aboutkillingbulls, see, and Torea
dor is Spanish for bullfighter.
If youve ever seen any of the 
Bad News Bears baseball mov
ies, youve heard this song. Its 
the one they play whenever they 
want to show a montage of the 
Bears letting grounders go be
tween their legs, watching the 
opponents home runs cruise over
the outfield fence, andrunninginto 
each other trying to catch pop-ups. 
Its a real comedy of errors.
If someone were to make a 
movie on the NFLs Chicago Bears 
this season, theyd probably put 
the song on repeat-play for these 
bad-news bears. And that goes 
double for the Indianapolis Colts. 
This week, both clubs marched 
into opponents stadiums 0-7 as 
sacrificial bulls to teams needing 
wins. The result?
The Colts got slammed 35-16 
as the Chargers scored the first 
19 points of the game, and the 
Bears received a one-day reprieve 
against the Dolphins because the 
World Series went into game 
seven in Miami. The Bears took a 
team without a single Pro-Bowler 
three years ago and won a playoff 
game before losing to the even
tual champion 49ers. Two sea
sons ago, the Colts were a play 
away from the SuperBowl. How 
did two teams fall so fast?
Chicago has horrible special 
teams and RB Marshall Faulk 
will be the first to tell you that 
Indys offensive line is the pits.
Both teams are in the bottom 
third in the league in first 
downs, TDs produced, and 
TDs allowed. Neither de
fense is bad, but they 
are not good either. The 
Colts ranked 12th in 
the league and Chi
cago 16th before the 
games. But whats 
the final answer?
Offense.
Indy is last in the
league, averag
ing just 258.9 
yards a game. 
Chicago isnt 
much better. 
They are 
283.7
per game is 
27th. (Its not 
but interesting
that the NFC West teams besides 
the San Francisco 49ers rank 
23rd, 26th, 28th, and 29th in total 
offense.) Its popular opinion 
in every sport that defense 
wins games. But its just as 
true that offense loses them. 
The only question is why 
do the teams offenses suck? 
Although its true the Bears 
have limped through the sea
son with injuries to their 
young talent (WR Curtis 
Conway and RB Rashan Sa
laam), they shot themselves 
in the foot by creating a quarter
back controversy. In the off-season, the team traded the tenth 
overall pick 
in the draft 
for the much-maligned 
Rick Mirer. This was 
foolhardy, not because the
gamble on Mirer Tom Blrdsey/Tartan Art Staff ,, ihasnt panned out,
not because the past draft was so
deep, but because they already
had a franchise play-caller in
Erik Kramer.
Kramer had a career year two
seasons ago and is another Bear
trying to get untracked after a 
serious injury. If there ever was a 
bad time to bring a new leader 
(Mirer) to a team, the Bears ad
ministration picked it.
Both teams are now firmly en
trenched in the race to draft Uni
versity of Tennessee quarterback
luck. Theyve lost free agents 
(most notably Ashley Ambrose), 
had players retire (including early 
retiree, former #4 pick Trev 
Alberts), and their Pro-Bowlers 
battered in the backfield (lately 
Jim Harbugh). This team has lost 
five of their eight games by a
Its popular opinion in every sport 
that defense wins games. But its 
just as true that offense loses them.
yards 
good for 
relevant, 
to. note
Peyton Manning. Can either of 
these teams finish 0-16? No ones 
ever done it.
Chicagos best hopes for a win 
come in week 14 and 15 when 
they entertain the hard-luck Buf
falo Bills and travel to St. Louis 
to play the Rams. Theyve been 
close to wins the past two weeks 
though, losing by a field goal to 
New Orleans Saints and a point 
to the defending SuperBowl 
Champion Green Bay Packers.
The Colts, on the other hand, 
have simply found a streak of bad
combined 17 points.
Indys best chance to get a win 
comes in two weeks when the 
Cincinatti Bengals come to town. 
Besides that game, the Colts dont 
face another team that currently 
has a losing record. Four of their 
last five games are also on the 
road. Somebody give this team 
some soup.
Chris Cannon is a senior com
puter <science major. His section 
makes the Bad News Bears look 
like the 1927 Yankees.
WcAfrc iObrs fO IMU iFbLSs
WRITER, from page 14
dominant squad at the time. Former 
CMU player Billy Sofa is now the dean of 
engineering at Pitt.
He was [onlyl about 5'9", but he could 
shoot, said OBrien.
OBrien has taught at Point Park, 
RMC, and Pitt and was once offered a 
teaching postion at CMU. He credits 
CMU English professor Lois Fowler as 
being the first person to take an interest 
in his writing. Fowler was his 11th grade 
English teacher at Taylor Allderdice 
High School.
One day, I turned in a paper, and she 
questioned its veracity, said OBrien. 
After reading an in-class paper of his, 
Fowler introduced him to liberal-arts 
oriented people in high school.
She lifted me to a different level, said
OBrien. She secretly gave him a copy of 
The Catcher in the Rye, which was a 
controversial book at the time. The books 
content was hidden from students.
That tells you what the times were 
like then, said OBrien. At that par
ticular time I thought it was the autobi
ography of Yogi Berra.
His best selling book, Pittsburgh: The 
Story of the City of Champions, has sold 
37,500 copies. He has published a book 
in each of the last seven years.
Ive sort of fixed it on nine months 
because its like having a baby. At least 
its the closest that Ill ever come.
His next book, We Had Em All the Way: 
Bob Prince and his Pittsburgh Pirates, 
details the life of Prince, a Pirates sportscaster from 1947 to 1975. OBrien was 
given the Bob Prince Memorial Award
this year. As he had done before, OBrien 
kept returning to the topic of college.
I think college was the greatest, and I 
still enjoy being on campus, he said. I 
would bet that students in the 20s were 
involved in far more student activities, 
said OBrien, in reference to the 1922 
Thistle. Today we have so many students 
who come to school and they dont get 
connected with anything. They get con
nected with the computer.
CMU was the first of four stops for 
OBrien Saturday. He was later scheduled 
to give a talk on his interests and appear 
at two local malls for additional book 
signings. He fondly recalled a recent trip 
to a middle school.
They paid me the greatest compliment 
Ive ever had, OBrien said.  You are 
what we call a life-long learner .
wrFb sAegs Ae cFAe
wrFb COOgs TOcxFcj fO fOScer
TOURNEY, from page 14
they would give up, but that they didnt 
believe that they could win  and with 
any mind game, you need to think that 
you can win, even if the opponents are 6 
feet tall and All-Americans.
We can make one mistake and think 
to ourselves that its almost expected 
of us instead of getting angry and not 
making the mistake again, said 
Kinsey about the struggles of the 
young team. But we have come a long 
way this season and I think that we 
will continue to improve over the next 
few years.
But after Wednesdays loss, Webb said 
that they still expected to win the tour
nament at LaRoche on Saturday, and 
her prediction was money when CMU 
proved that they could overcome their 
demons and won the entire tournament 
in four straight matches.
It was a battle, said Webb. The first 
showdown was against Waynesburg; 
CMU took the games in three sets 15-6, 
16-14,15-10, battling back from a defi
cit in the second game which was some
thing that the team had struggled with 
all year.
Next, CMU faced Pitt-Greensburg, also 
taking that match, killing them 15-2, 
15-8. 15-9. Spurred on by the win, the 
moved to trounce the host team LaRoche 
15-10, 15-3, 15-7.
After some difficulties with other 
teams and waiting four hours before 
the other finalist team was decided, 
CMU was pitted against Pitt-Bradford, 
a bigger team with stronger hitters, 
and more of them. CMU lost the first 
game 7-15, then slapped them right 
back 15-7, lost the third set 13-15 and 
then blew Pitt-Bradford away 152 in 
the fourth game.
The all-tournament team had been 
announced before the final match and 
two Tartans  including stellar sopho
more Steph Szobota, a middle hitter  
were included on the roster. A PittBradford player was named MVP, but 
when Szobota stuffed her for game point 
of the final match  which CMU won 
15-13  it was very clear to Webb who 
the MVP should have been.
Our confidence was through the roof; 
I was really proud of my girls, said 
Webb whose squad faces'Washington 
University and New York University to 
start off the UAA tournament starting 
next Friday. We were louder yesterday 
than we have been all year, and we 
never gave up.
It was so awesome. We did so many 
good things that weve been working 
hard on. We were intense, we were physi
cal and we pushed it out, said Webb, 
who also cited Sekowski for continuing 
her outstanding play at this tourna
ment where everyone contributed to 
pushing the team hitting and defensive 
numbers to new heights.
CMUs final regular season record is
8-22, but all eight wins have come in 
their last 12 games. The team will be 
watching NYU game tapes this week in 
preparation for this upcoming final week
end of play at UAAs. We are so psyched 
to beat NYU, said Webb.
The Tartans have finished their regu
lar season.
SINKS, from page 14
in the nation. A win would bring atten
tion and respect to CMU.
The game started off evenly. CMU 
and Rochester battled for control of 
the ball and offensive opportunities. 
After the first 10 minutes, Rochester 
seemed to gain more control of the 
ball. CMU had not managed to get a 
shot on goal, and now Rochester was 
using its speed on offense to create 
opportunities.
With 32 minutes left in the first half, 
Rochester got its first very good opportu
nity to score when a fast break lead to a 
break away for a Rochester player. The 
Tartan goalie, sophomore Ben Kartzman, 
was able to give the player only a small 
amount of space to shoot at and easily 
made the save on the shot.
Less than four minutes later, how
ever, Rochester was able to score. CMU 
gave up a free kick 35 yards out on the 
right side of their own goal. As CMU 
was setting up its wall of defenders in 
front of the ball, a Rochester player 
took a quick shot. Kartzman was 
caught unprepared, and the ball 
skipped quickly on the wet turf just 
inside the left goal post to give Roches
ter the lead.
CMU did not give up and immedi
ately began to put offensive pressure 
on Rochester. The Tartans missed few
good scoring opportunities with 23 
minutes left in the half when senior 
Jason Beulow got a low, hard shot on 
net and, ten minutes later, a shot off a 
corner kick rebound was barely saved 
by the Rochester goalie.
Finally, with eight minutes left, 
CMU tied the game. Beulow carried 
the ball down the right side of the 
field until he crossed the ball in. Fresh
man David Zupon was able to get a 
shot on goal that beat the Rochester 
goalie to the lower left-hand side of 
the goal.
The second half started quickly for 
both teams. Only three minutes into 
the half, Rochester went ahead by a 
goal again. CMU didnt cave in, though, 
and six minutes later, junior Harry 
Ulrich scored to tie the game. Beulow 
won the ball at near mid-field and led 
a two-on-one break with Ulrich. 
Beulow brought the ball in and then 
passed off to Ulrich, who touched the 
ball once and shot the ball just past the 
Rochester goalie.
The tie was short-lived, however. 
With 20 minutes left in the half Roch
ester scored for the final time in the 
game. CMU lost some of its wind after 
that. Although Kartzman came up with 
some more spectacular saves and the 
offense managed to get a few more 
shots, they were unable to score again.
Tony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
The Tartan mens team watches the weekend soccer action.wFcfFes xAe CFfr Ae I/AiFnO
LATE, from page 14
possession from the third. The 
Tartans went 78 yards in 16 plays 
on that drive to score a touch
down. The score came off a 3-yard 
nin by QB Clay. After the twopoint conversion, the Tartans 
trailed 28-21.
On Chicagos second possession
end of the game. Visions of those 
great San Fransico comeback 
drives lingered in the heads of the 
CMU faithful as the Tartans took 
the field. QB Clay completed eight 
passes for 73 yards as CMU scored 
another TD. The touch down was 
a 4-yard pass to SE Ricco Parrish. 
It was a good drive, Parrish said.
Clay threw a perfect, beautiful pass. 
It landed right in my hands. 
 Ricco Parrish, senior split end
of the quarter they were looking 
to score. After moving the ball 42 
yards to the 14-yard line, the 
1 artan defense stopped the madness. They did not give the Ma
roons any more yards, which 
forced a turnover on downs.
Receiving the ball on their own 
14, the Tartans had 86 yards to 
drive and only 3:52 left until the
Clay threw a perfect, beautiful 
pass. It landed right in my hands.
After the extra point, the score 
was tied at 28.
For the third game in a row, the 
Tartans headed into overtime. 
The Maroons received the ball 
first and scored a touchdown in 
eight plays. However, they went 
for two extra points, and failed.
The Tartans scored in six plays, 
one of which was a 20-yard pass to 
LH Brian Krueger on fourth and 
seven. The touchdown came off a 
run by Campie. With the score 
tied at 34, Pat O Malley came on 
to attempt the extra point. The 
hero of last weeks game did his 
thing again, as he made the kick 
and ended the game 35-34.
QB Clay led the Tartans by com
pleting 21 of 40 passes for 236 
yards. Yes, that is correct, 40 pass 
attempts. TE Chris Barnicle re
ceived four receptions for 55 yards, 
while Krueger, Neupaver, and 
Campie rushed for a combined 
163 yards and three touchdowns.
After the dramatic comeback, 
which primarily used passing 
plays, does Clay have anything to 
say to the Playa Haters who think 
he cannot pass?
No, I just let my play prove 
myself, Clay said. I will do what
ever it takes for my team to win. 
Whatever it takes.
iCFssATArj
COMPUTERSJOBS
Refurbished Hewlett Packard Earn money and free trips! 
Laser Printer For Sale. Series INDIVIDUALS and GROUPS wanted 
Printer $300.00, III P $350.00, tjg; gromote SPRING BREAK!! Call
$ 300.00, Bottom Feed Paper 
Trays $50.00 Additional memory 
and fonts available. 90 day 
guarantee. Barbara Runnette 
(412) 441-6048
INTER-CAMPUS PROGRAMS at 
(800) 327-6013 or http:// 
www.icpt.com
ff OUSING
Wanted: A spring semesterLow Student and Faculty
Fares to International destinatio 
sabbatical rental for a family.Good Domestic Fares, AYII and 
Prefer a furnished 2-3 bedroom Eurail Passes. 9-5 M-F, 9:30-Noi 
house, condo, or apartment on orsaturday. 4609 Winthrop Street, 
near a bus line to the UniversitQf.f South Craig. Forum Travel 681 
Call (909) 625-2231 or eMail 4099.
Phurley@pomona.edu
Classified Rates
1-20 words...........$10.00/wk
21-50 words...........$12.00/wk
51-100 words........515.00/wk
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Boxi 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Classifieds must be paid in cash or 
check before first run date.
On-campus departments and
organizations may pay by journal
transfer.i
Due by 5 pm the Thursday before 
publication.
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

ROCCrbFCC sfcrFgs 
fOxFcjs fOScer
By JESSICA STRELITZ
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
During the last week of regular sea
son play, CMU womens volleyball 
stormed towards the upcoming finals. 
Despite a loss to College of Wooster, 
they will sail into the UAA tourna
ment next weekend in New York City 
coming off winning four straight 
matches in a weekend tourney at 
LaRoche College.
Playing their last home game in 
Skibo Gymnasium against Wooster, 
the team didnt want to go out without
The team had been working on de
fense all week at practice and it paid 
off. It took a lot of heart to step up to 
the challenge, and not give up on the 
drills, but that kind of intensity is 
what were striving for in the games, 
said freshman Cindy Kos, a middle 
hitter. Sophomore setter Sarah Putaro 
had 20 digs for the match and Rinsey 
had 16 in what Webb called incred
ible defense.
Ending the drills is like getting to 
15 first, you give an all-out effort 
throughout, and are all the more proud 
when you finish, said Kos.
In the fourth set, CMU came close,
We have come a long way this season and 
I think that we will continue to improve. 
 Ashley Kinsey, sophomore outside hitter
another point in the standings. They 
dropped the first game, scoring only 
five points. The second game was also 
a struggle but the team managed to 
score nine, and really came to life 
towards the end of it.;
Coach Julie Webb made a change in 
the third game, taking out senior Brit
tany Rutter, co-captain and outside 
hitter, and replacing her with fellow 
captain, junior Jennifer Sutherland.
Jenn played well, she came in and 
slammed a couple of hits and really 
picked up the momentum for us, said 
Ashley Kinsey, sophomore and out
side hitter. The Tartans took that game 
15-13.
but Woosters defense was excellent 
too, and the Tartans lost, 11-15. None
theless, sophomore Beth Sekowski had 
a career high of 16 kills, averaging 
four per game as the team posted their 
highest dig rate of the year, 19.25 per 
game. Considering that in the first 
game of the match they only managed 
11 digs, they really picked it up over 
the next three matches, scoring 66 
more.
Like any other sport, volleyball is a 
mind game. Many times this year, the 
CMU women would get behind early 
in a game and the momentum would 
drain out of their bodies. It wasnt that 
Please see TOURNEY, page 13
drTresr CrFjs sOiirc frFb
Upset-minded Tartans play highly ranked Rochester
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
CMUs womens soccer team took an
other step up on the ladder to success 
Friday night in a rain-saturated battle 
with #3 Rochester. The Tartans entered 
the contest emphasizing their sound 
defense, as the team had only allpwed 
two goals in the past four games. One 
of those games was a 1-0 upset win 
over then-ranked #9 Gettysburg, on 
October 11.
Everyone was playing to their fullest 
potential, senior Mary Wall said of the 
Gettysburg game.
, We knew how they played and had a 
game plan for the way they attack, said 
head coach Ann Haggerty. I dont think 
Gettysburg was ready for that.
But Rochester fielded a stronger 
squad and surely wouldnt come to CMU 
unprepared, especially after the 
Gettsyburg upset.
They were excellent, Frank Sum
mers said of the Rochester team. Sum
mers is the president of a graphics com
pany in New Hampshire, a youth soccer 
coach, and the father of freshman Alex 
Summers, a backup goalkeeper. [Their] 
trapping and passing was overwhelm
ing. But the CMU girls, they played 
hard, they played well, he said.
They were fast, said Stephany Sum
mers of the opponents forwards. Mrs. 
Summers was in town for Family Week
end with her husband and other daugh
ter, Sarah.
We did a good job defending them. We 
had to play very defensively, said 
Haggerty. CMU was indeed forced to 
play defensively all night. They were 
outshot 15-2 and lost 3-0 to Rochester.
Lindsay Smith has had a great
Tony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Sophomore Romy Fischer controls the ball during this weekends soccer action.
year, Haggerty said of CMUs goal
keeper. Smith, a junior, had 12 saves 
Friday; most of them sliding stops on 
the wet turf.
Our goalie had a great game, sopho
more Romy Fischbr agreed.
Rochesters three scores were a combi
nation of skill and luck. On the only goal 
of the first half, a Rochester forward 
rocketed a shot on goal from 35 yards 
out. A little to the left and the ball would 
have been wide, a little to the right and 
Smith would have made another save. 
Instead, the ball hit the left post and 
bounced directly to another Rochester 
forward. She controlled the bounce and 
booted it to the back of the net.
That comer was just awesome, said 
sophomore Jocelyn Pollack, recalling 
Rochesters second goal. A Rochester 
comer kick floated up in front of CMUs 
goal and was headed in by a big Roches
ter forward, who could simply jump 
higher than the Tartan defenders.
The third goal was just as perfectly 
executed. With a CMU defender on her 
back, one of Rochesters quick forwards 
deflected a deep centering pass on the 
fly. Smith could only watch the ball skip 
to the left side of the goal.
Except for a brief calm in the second 
half, the entire game was played during 
the rain.
Please see IMPROVEMENT, page 11
wFcfFes xAe Ae f/Acj sfcFAn/f OorcfAbr iOefrsf
By RYAN E. WILLHITE
Tartan Staffwriter
Our beloved Tartans traveled to Chi
cago last Saturday to meet the Maroons 
of Chicago. Coming into the game, the 
Tartans had never lost to Chicago, win
ning by an average of 31 points. This 
game extended the streak as the Tar
tans came from behind to beat the Ma
roons in overtime, 35-34.
The Tartans gained first possession of 
the ball, and they were poised'to attack 
from their 11-yard line. Chicago, not 
wanting to lose their homecoming game, 
also came out with a vengeance. On the 
second play of the game, QB Russ Clay 
fumbled the ball and Chicago recovered. 
Three plays later, Chicago QB James 
Judd rushed six yards for a TD. The 
extra point was blocked, and the score
was 6^0 Miaroons.
The Tartan offense was struggling 
against the Chicago defense and was 
forced to punt away their next two pos
sessions. The second punt was a disaster 
as punter Ray Crux punted the ball for 
only 14 yards. Chicago received the kick 
at CMUs 23-yard line and looked ready 
to add another TD to the score. On their 
first play of the drive, Chicago RB Way 
rushed 18 yards to the Tartans 5 yard 
line. However, the defensive line of the 
Tartans would not bulge as the Maroons 
tried to rush in for the touchdown, twice. 
On fourth down, the Maroons kicked an
18 yard field goal that put them up,.9-0.
The Tartans, fortunate to be down by 
only nine, needed to gain control of the 
game. They were not playing the way 
conference leaders play; this was not the 
way teams played under Coach Lackner.
Evidently, the team was not as inspired 
as this writer. On the first play of the 
drive SE Rick Steiner fumbled the ball 
on the Tartans 21-yard line, only to 
have it recovered by the Maroons. The 
defense of the Tartans did its best imita
tion of the U.S. Government handing
The Tartans converted two third downs 
on the drive. One was a 35-yard pass to 
Barnicle that put the Tartans deep into 
Chicago territory, the second was a TD 
run by RB Mike Campie. The drive went 
95 yards in 15 plays. After, the extra 
point, the Tartans only trailed, 9-7.
I will do whatever it takes for my team to 
win. Whatever it takes. 
 Russ Clay, sophomore quarterback
out welfare cheese, as they got stingy 
and refused to allow the first down to 
Chicago.
The offense of CMU, taking a cue from 
the D, came out tough. On their second 
possession of the second quarter, the 
Tartans came out with nothing to lose.
The defense of the Tartans treated the 
Maroons like rag dolls again, and re
fused to give up any yardage. On the 
third play of the drive Chris Schmitt 
intercepted a Maroons pass, and the 
Tartans were rolling on the river.
It only took the Tartans six plays and
36 yards to score another touchdown. 
The touchdown came off of a 5-yard run 
by RH Chris Neupaver. After the failed 
extra point, CMU was ahead, 13-9.
The Maroons, however, would not go 
down without a fight. With 1:32 left 
until half-time, the Maroons fought back 
like Marv Albert will in jail, as they 
drove 68 yards in six plays for another 
touchdown. The Maroons went into halftime up 16-13.
The second half saw a complete rever
sal of what had occurred. The Maroons 
took advantage of the Tartans, like Presi
dentClinton does to his secretaries,  
they scored two touchdowns and went 
up 28-13, to end the third quarter.
But the Tartans were about to come 
back like Jason in Friday the 13th. They 
began the fourth quarter extending their 
Please see LATE, page 13
The rugby team held on for a victory Saturday against Fairmont.
HSf/Oc oAsAfs IMU
By CHRIS CANNON
Tartan Sports Editor
My books arent really about 
sports. Thats the lure. Theyre 
really about life; about people, 
said author Jim OBrien, who 
made his third trip to the Univer
sity Shoppe Saturday morning. 
People have always been much 
more fascinating to me than 
games. OBrien grew up in 
nearby Hazelwood and has writ
ten nine books about Pittsburghs 
professional sports teams.
Its always exciting to learn 
new things, said OBrien, who 
learned that Honus Wagner was 
the baseball coach at CIT after 
seeing a copy of the 1922 Thistle.
I was sort of a street-student, 
he said, remarking that he spent 
time at Frankie Gustines (who 
played for the Pirates), a bar in 
Oakland thats now called 
Hemingways. I wasnt always 
in class, but I was learning.
I signed up for The Pitt News 
before I signed up for classes, 
said OBrien, who did a large part 
of his learning working at vari
ous sources. He worked for Pitts 
biweekly paper, the yearbook, and 
the radio station. OBrien bought 
a toy printing press at the age of 
9, and was the sports editor of a 
local newspaper in high school 
before becoming Pitt sports edi
tor.
At the time, the position was 
reserved for seniors and carried a 
scholarship that covered half of 
tuition. Murray Chass, who now 
covers baseball for the New York 
Times, nominated him for the job 
as a sophomore.
Everybody at Oakland bars 
assumed I was a senior, so I was 
able to drink at an earlier age, 
said OBrien.
While in the army, he was sent 
to Alaska to be an assistant edi
tor of a 12-page paper.
Two weeks later I was the edi
tor, said OBrien, who said the 
paper actually printed twice as 
many pages. Unlike his Pitt job, 
the Alaskan paper carried no ex
tra frills. I got paid as much as 
the guys who paraded and did 
push-ups. But OBrien recalls 
his college days most vividly.
When I was a student, every
thing happened in Oakland, he 
said, noting that the Steelers and 
Pirates both played at Forbes 
Field. He enrolled at Pitt in Sep
tember of1960. One month later 
the Yankees were in town for the 
World Series, said OBrien. Oak
land was kind of an oasis. Ac
cording to OBrien, a nature mu
seum was once across from Phipps 
Conservatory, and museums 
were free of charge. He recalls 
visiting CMU to see the Tartans 
basketball team, which was a 
Please see WRITER, page 13
Tony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
Harry Ulrich dribbles the ball towards a defender at Gesling StadiumMre LCF f/cOSn/
cFAe Fej iOCj
By NATHAN STEINWALD
Tartan Staffwriter
On Friday night, the CMU 
mens soccer team came out to 
play the University of Roches
ter in the rain and cold. It was 
a strange night for hope and 
optimism, as water came from 
the sky and the cold air made 
ones breath visible. However, 
the mens team was hopeful
and optimistic about the nights 
match.
The team was looking for a way 
into the NCAA tournament. Two 
tough road losses at Washington 
and Emory made a place into the 
tournament doubtful. Fridays 
game would be one of the last 
chances the team had to prove 
that it belonged in the tourna
ment. Rochester was ranked #5 
Please see SINKS, page 13

---------------------------------------------------

V!"EAi p2D I&&Ei 8Tfi TJIoJlD GJIliYvi Mi""!l UlvviI&vorD Pvoo&REIYfD Pill&r"vJlvJ27 ebo!RiI 1pp7
AFRICA COMES TO CAMPUS
By ANAND MARATHE
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
This years International Festival was 
a venue for students to experience the 
food, dance, music, lectures, films, arts 
and crafts, recreational events, arid other 
aspects that contribute to the character 
and flavor of the African continent.
tival broaden your understanding, 
and have fun.
This year there were over 50 events 
for students and their families to at
tend. [The Festival] coincides each 
year with Family Weekend; its been 
that way for several years, since 1992. 
It was combined so that there would be 
more opportunities for students and
I really hoped that students would be able to 
learn about Africa in a fun way.... Let the Festi
val broaden your understanding, and have fun. 
 Heather Midkiff 
organizer of International Festival
I really hoped that students would 
be able to learn about Africa in a fun 
way, said Heather Midkiff, assis
tant dean of Student Activities and 
first-time organizer of CMUs annual 
International Festival. Let the Festheir families, said Midkiff.
According to Justin Mingo, a junior 
industrial management major and a 
member of the International Festival 
committee, variety was key to the com
mittee as they tried to have as many
events as possible to give people what 
they wanted while still keeping with the 
theme of Africa.
I guess it depends on what youre 
interested in. If you are interested in 
music, you should go to the drum work
shop.... We had some lectures to give 
an idea of life over there and the 
economy over there. We tried to have 
 as many events as possible to give 
people, said Mingo.
This is the International 
Festivals seventh year at CMU  
it began in 1991  and it is de
signed so that each year, a different 
part of the world is celebrated: Af
rica, Europe, Asia, and Latin 
America and the Caribbean.
I would say that for each festival 
 there is a similar format. There are a 
number of different personal journey pro
grams, art, food, and crafts programs, 
and an education and opportunities 
abroad fair. There is always entertain
ment and the International Soccer TourPlease see FESTIVAL, page L3
Saturdays program Reptileland gave the CMU community the chance to get close 
and comfortable with African animals such as this African python.
AFRICA^
kIyj iiiiiici L/iAUii/ IOILON uoimuuui maiiogci
Models of the Africa 97 fashion show displayed dazzling costumes influenced by African tradition and the Yoruba culture.
JOURNEYS' OPEN STUDENTS' EYES
By NEEMA AVASHIA
Tartan Staffivriter
Everyone journeys through life 
on their own path. No matter the 
manner of embarking on these 
journeys, everyones experience is 
a life story. Through the sharing 
of these journeys, we can learn 
about each other and ourselves. 
The Personal Journeys series that
took place this past weekend is 
the perfect example of this, since 
so many were willing to share 
their lives in order to open the 
Grinds of others to countries and 
cultures they have had little expo
sure to in the past.
The Personal Journeys series 
that took place last Wednesday
through Saturday, was an inte
gral part of the International 
Festival this year. The purpose 
of the Personal Journeys series is 
to be able to broaden the focus of 
the' International Festival, and 
to introduce people to more spe
cific topics in smaller groups, 
said Linda Melville, foreign stu
dent advisor and organizer of 
Personal Journeys.
Personal Journeys presenta
tions took place every afternoon 
with the topics ranging from Eth
nic Gridlock and Politics in Af
rica to Senegalese Dance: An 
Introduction for Beginners. The 
styles of the Personal Journeys 
also varied greatly, with some 
panel discussions, some lectures,
and some slide shows. Present
ers included students, profes
sors, and members of the local 
community.
We were trying to get a 
variety of different cultures 
and places in Africa repre
sented, said Melville. In ad
dition, this year CMU was 
honored by the presence of 
Hassan Adamu, Ambassador 
to the U.S. for Nigeria, who 
spoke on Transition to Civil
ian Rule in Nigeria.
Several African countries, in
cluding Ghana, Uganda, Nige
ria, Kenya, South Africa, and 
Egypt, were represented 
through the Personal Journeys 
series. At the Carnegie Mellon 
Action Project (CMAP) Student 
Panel titled Unraveling the 
Myth of Africa, students from 
Uganda, Nigeria, Ghana, and 
South Africa spoke about vari
ous aspects of their respective 
cultures, of their experiences 
in Africa, and about their lives 
in the United States.
Growing up, the three of us 
[siblings] had a lot of conflicts 
about what was right and 
wrong, said Kodwo Dadzie, a 
junior mechanical engineering 
major whose father is from 
Ghana and whose mother is an 
African-American. He discussed 
growing up in a dual-culture
Please see JOURNEYS, page L3
African natives shared their life experiences with students.
KkHIk HdR1IHwk Ka1R7dku 79u7I2w 19 7ulHM7I 7uuUku
By SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Senior Staffwriter
Halima Addous keynote address, Is
lam and Politics in Algeria, kicked off 
this years International Festival last 
Wednesday evening. Addou spoke in 
Rangos Hall in the University 
to a 60-person audience. Her speech
focused on the current political affairs _______
of Algeria and the ways which the
country, as well as the rest ofthe world, 
is being impacted by them.
"Religion played a in
the past and right now. The governnHBL \ 1 I
inent uses religion to control moral I 
order and social order. This so 
that the individual has no auLonomy, Addou said. She moved to I 
the United Slates over a year ago 
from Algeria where she worked as a
lawyer and a peace advocate. Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor
In 1962, after Algeria won its indepenAddou stressed the oppression of Algerian Islamic women.
dence from France, the government wanted to unify Seventy-five percent of the population is under
the country. They used religion to attain that goal. 25. These people dont know history because all of 
The people of Algeria are known for divertheir history books deal with only 14 years of the 
sity. They are of different ethnicities and speak Middle East. The dont know history before the 
many languages. The government wanted to arrival of the Islamic government. They only learn 
use religion to weed out this culture and diverthe history of our independence, she said, 
sity, Addou said. Consequently, these people are denied access to;
With the hopes to create a more homogenous the countrys history of a diversified people that 
population, the government of Algeria estabwere joined together by democracy, 
lished an official language and began teaching We are close to Europe. Many of us are accusit in the countrys schools. The countrys young tomed to democratic values. Tolerance is the key to 
were also taught a new and censored history. Please see ADDOU, page L5

---------------------------------------------------

L2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 1997
COLLEGE OF 
FINE ARTS
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE 
OF TECHNOLOGY
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
HUMANITIES & 
SOCIAL SCIENCES
MELLON COLLEGE 
OF SCIENCE
Dr. Joel Emer, a senior consult
ing engineer with Digitals Semi
conductor Engineering Group, 
will present two lectures this 
Thursday. The first will be held 
from noon to 1:30 pm in Wean 
Hall 8220 and the second will be 
held from 2:30 to 4 pm in 
Hamerschlag Hall 1112.
SCHOOL OF 
COMPUTER SCIENCE
USX Systems Development is host
ing a student employment program 
in an effort to give students the 
opportunity to explore the working 
world, develop career-related skills, 
and get job experience while attend
ing school. There is also a competi
tive salary offered.
Participants in the student em
ployment program work in the Busi
ness Systems Development organi
zations at several USX locations.
Testing for the program will be 
held this Tuesday at 1:30 pm in the 
Peter/Wright room in the University 
Center. Students must bring a com
pleted application to the test along 
with an official transcript. Students 
are encouraged to sign up for the test 
at the reception station of the Career 
Center, where they can also pick up 
an application.
Students must be full-time, have 
a career interest in programming, 
and have completed one course in 
COBOL, FORTRAN, or Pascal.
orian amun/1 arian rnoio bian Manager
Behind the traditional masks and colorful costumes, the dancers and drummers in Ballet Ngoma celebrate rituals, ceremonies, and other special events.
udI urcoAir dF oOCSefrrcs nO fO f/r jOns
By BECKY A. COWSER
Tartan Features Editor
I think we want to adopt an SDC dog 
now. Everyone wanted to take Duchess 
home, said Sarah Frew, a senior biol
ogy major and Student Dormitory Coun
cil (SDC) residential programming chair. 
We might have a mascot.
Last Saturday, SDC took 11 volun
teers to the Animal Rescue League 
(ARL) as a part of SDC Service Day. 
According to Pamela Brann, organizer 
of the Service Day and a junior electri
cal and computer engineering major, 
Highland Park Clean Up was another 
service activity planned for the day, 
but it was canceled due to the weather.
We didnt get the volunteers we 
expected for the Highland Park Clean 
Up because it was Family Weekend 
and many students were with their 
parents or went home. So, the weather 
cooperated and the trip was canceled, 
said Brann. She added that the event 
will probably not be rescheduled since 
the weather will be getting worse as 
winter approaches.
With the trip to Highland Park can
celed, SDC focused on their service trip 
to the ARL, which houses stray and 
abandoned animals while preparing 
them for adoption.
Our trip to the Animal Rescue 
League was extremely successful, said 
Brann. We went through a brief safety
Frew and Brann both stressed love of 
animals as a major reason why volunteers 
went to the ARL. Brann said that many of 
the volunteers had animals at home which 
they missed deeply and the ARL service trip 
was a good way for them to get to play with 
animals and remember their pets at home.
Though all the dogs were great, the
The group made some particular friends. 
[There] was a giant Irish Setter named Rusty 
who liked to shake hands and cuddle.
 Pamela Brann, 
organizer of SDC Service Day
lecture and then proceeded to walk 
upwards of 70 dogs.... We walked dogs 
of all sizes, colors and breeds ... [and] 
played with them in a fenced-in play
pen behind the kennel.
It was a good day to get out and do 
something service-oriented, said Frew. 
I dont feel there are a lot of serviceoriented opportunities out there.
group made some particular friends, said 
Brann. [There] was a giant Irish Setter 
named Rusty who liked to shake hands 
and cuddle. Another favorite was a quiet 
dog named Duchess who stuck close to 
her volunteer ... for most of the time. 
Besides getting the dogs out of their 
cages and giving them attention, the 
volunteers got to make comments on the
individual dogs in an effort to give the 
prospective owners some background on 
each dogs personality. Brann said that 
all the volunteers hope the dogs find 
suitable, loving homes soon.
Another nice thing about SDC goingto 
the ARL collectively is that now indi
vidual volunteers from that group can 
go on their own initiative, since they 
have completed the training.
After we [took] all of the dogs out, 
we sat back and relaxed over Subway 
lunches provided by SDC. Everyone 
was bursting with excitement and sto
ries about the animals we worked 
with, said Brann.
Before I left, I talked to the orga
nizer because I plan on going back, 
said Frew.
The event was so popular that Brann 
has decided to begin a monthly trip to 
the ARL. If students arent comfortable 
going alone, the next opportunity to vol
unteer will be sometime next month.
If you would like to learn about 
other volunteering opportunities with r 
ARL, contact the Animal Rescue 
League at 661-6452.
ON CAMPUS
Celebrating heritage...
IOCCrnr BcArTs) MOjrceAf srrLs AefO FcfAsfMs xOcg3 CATr
All English majors are required 
to attend a meeting about online 
registration and how it will affect 
the registration process in the spring 
semester. The meeting will be Tues
day, November 4 from 4:30 to 6 pm 
in Baker Hall 355.
An acclaimed professional flutist 
for more than three decades, Jeanne 
Baxtresser, principal flutist with the 
New York Philharmonic, has joined 
the faculty of the School of Music as 
a professor of flute.
Her career has included 15 years 
with the New York Philharmonic as 
well as roles as a soloist, chamber 
musician, recording artist, book edi
tor, and teacher.
All faculty and staff in CIT have 
recently received the 1997 CIT Staff 
Recognition Award Call for Nomina
tions. All faculty, staff, and students 
in the CMU community are eligible to 
nominate parties for this award.
The CIT Staff Recognition Award 
Committee requests that members 
of the community consider nomi
nating a CEE staff member whose 
job performance and dedication to 
the operations of the college deserve 
special attention. CEE staff mem
bers who are eligible for nomination 
include: Deborah Brodhecker, 
Patricia Dupain, Donna Marano, 
Karen Peretin, Cherie Pry, Anna 
Marie Whiteherse, and Curt Yeske.
Those interested in nominating a 
staff member can pick up additional 
copies of the nomination packet from 
Anna Marie Whiteherse in Porter 
Hall 119.
Deloitte & Touche Consulting 
Group will be holding an informa
tion session today from 7 to 9 pm in 
Scaife Hall 422.
The session is geared toward those 
students who are interested in a 
full-time or internship position at 
the firm.
Now that its getting colder, it's the 
opportune time to start staying indoors. 
If you're on campus, this may mean 
spending more time in the University 
Center, and if this is the case, you might 
want to start visiting the University Cen
ter Art Gallery. Featured there as part of 
the International Festival: Africa 97 is 
artist Saihou Njie.
Originally from Gambia, Njie moved 
to Pittsburgh in 1985 because his wife 
is a Homestead native. Njie has trav
eled extensively as an artist, dancer, 
and photographer. His current exhibi
tion in the UC Art Gallery is entitled 
Lifes Dreams and features his origi
nal display of innovative African ba
tik pieces.
The way he approaches his art seems to 
be the same way he approaches his life  
as an amalgam of different media which 
combine to produce a piece of work fol
lowing in the steps of tradition but forg
ing a new path.
The Tartan: Could you tell me about 
your experiences as a dancer and artist?
Saihou Njie: I went to school in up
state New York and studied Fine Arts. I 
was exposed to art and artists; Ive al
ways been interested in dance, and in 
my travels I ended up in Boston where I 
met a group that did very good African 
dance. I joined them and traveled with 
them for three years.
From that experience, I traveled to 
Europe and ended up in Scandinavia, 
in Sweden. There I landed a job doing 
dance. The Swedish government had 
some philanthropic projects going on 
in my native country, Gambia, and 
they wanted me to help them raise 
money for their projects, so I put on my 
hat as a dancer and percussionist and 
travelled to 98 Swedish cities. It was a 
great experience.
From there I went back to Africa, to 
Gambia. There I founded the Youth 
Fund Against Drugs and Alcohol. The 
organization is still thriving even 
though it took me several years to get it 
off the ground.
TT: What do you think of CMUs Inter
national Festival: Africa 97?
>S7'/: I think its agreatidea. Itexposesthe
students to whats in the rest of the world. 
I feel good that I can participate in it and I 
hope I can do the same next time around.
TT: Have you had much experience 
with CMU?
SN: I used to frequent the art supply 
store. Ever since they tore down [Skibo], 
I havent been [to CMU] much. Now 
its so busy and big! The other day I 
came to drop off my artwork, and it 
took the guard one minute to turn 
around and give me a ticket! But we 
worked it out. The Student Life Office 
made arrangements for me to stay 
parked where I was.
CMU is a great school and Ive been 
looking at continuing my education
there. Ive become very interested in 
architecture. Maybe I can arrange an 
exchange  I can teach my art and take 
classes. Well see what happens.
TT: How does the way you create batik 
differ from the original practice? Why do 
you do it differently?
SN: I do it differently because batik
 even though its a very old art form
 you have the same look. It doesnt 
matter where the piece is from, as 
long as its batik, you can tell its 
batik. With all batik, you dip the fab
ric into a dye bath which gives it a 
uniform color. This makes it very flat; 
there is no movement. Its very rigid 
and structured.
My style, I apply my colors with a 
brush before dipping, just like watercolor. So you can actually see 
brushstrokes of color. A lot of people, 
when they come very close [to the piece], 
they think Oh, its watercolor. But 
when they come even closer and they see 
its on fabric, they say, Oh, its on fabric! 
Oh, its batik!
TT: Why is it important that your work 
be different from other batik artists?
SN: In the art world, there are so 
many of us [artists]. Its important that 
we stand out. If we have a style, we can 
stand out, someone can recognize [a par
ticular artist].
I feel blessed that my style of vvork is 
not realism but is in between realism 
and fact. In each and every last piece 
there are so many stories and ideas 
going on. Every day you look at the piece 
there are more things going on. What 
you see depends on your experience as 
an observer.
For example, say there is a person in 
an art gallery. His back is to you and all 
you can see are his shoulders shaking. 
What do you interpret that as? Well, it 
depends on where you come from. Say 
you come from a funeral home, you may 
interpret his shaking as weeping. But if 
you come from a party with your friends, 
you might think hes laughing. It all 
depends on where you come from.
TT: What is the one thing you would 
want someone looking at your art to 
come away feeling?
SN: Happy. Because of the color, the 
harmony, the movement, the energy. 
There are a lot of professionals, doctors 
especially, who buy my work. I dont 
know why, but every time they buy a 
piece, I can tell in their face that its like 
a candy lover buying a box of candy  
they cant wait to get home, open the 
package, and start getting down. I can 
see these people rushing out of my 
workspace and rushing home to open 
the work and hang it up.
I feel that even though I may want to 
be many different things  an architect, 
a doctor  I cannot. I am an artist. But 
if a doctor goes home and my work in
spires him to do what' he does, I have 
become a part of that person.
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor
Njie finds happiness in the fact that he can be a part of others lives by inspiring them.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 1997L3
/? <HVice J>4.oj>U.K.C*.A.
Council
I7kkB IOSeiAC Oe 7efrceFfAOeFC kjSiFfAOeFC kxi/Fenr 
118 Meyran Avenue 
Pittsburgh 
(412) 683-1881
. ______ ______
RAifAbs /rFC f/cOSn/ crCFfAen
zrsfAoFC irCrbcFfrslATr sfOcArs rxLFej CAsfrercsM /OcAzOes
kxLCOAfFfAOe LcObLfs
FifAoAsfMs AefOCrcFeir
By TRACY ODELL
Tartan Contributing Editor
We are concerned about our 
health. We are concerned about 
trees. If you want to take our oil, you 
should not also take our health and 
our environment.
This was Dr. Owen Wiwas mes
sage to Shell Oil Company on behalf 
of Nigerias Ogoni people as he ex
pressed it to an audience 
in Rangos Hall last 
Thursday evening.
Dr. Wiwa, brother of 
the late Nigerian writer 
and activist Ken SaroWiwa, is a physician and 
human rights activist 
from Ogoniland.
We brought Owen 
Wiwa here to heighten 
awareness of environ
mental racism and the 
plight of the Ogoni 
people of Nigeria. Speak
ers like Wiwa are impor
tant because they expose 
the student body to is
sues beyond Pittsburgh 
and beyond the U.S., 
said Melissa Chan, a jun
ior chemical engineering 
maj or and member of the 
AB political speakers 
committee.
Before Wiwa even spoke a word, 
the audience viewed the atrocities 
against the Ogoni people through 
Delta Force, a video composed pri
marily of footage smuggled out of 
Nigeria. The introduction to the 
video featured Saro-Wiwas son 
speaking about his father.
My fathers only crime has been 
to organize a successful and non
violent struggle against the exploi
tation of the Nigerian people and 
their land by the Shell Oil company 
and the Nigerian government, said 
Saro-Wiwas son.
Ken Saro-Wiwa led the Movement 
for the Survival of Ogoni People 
(MSOP), a grassroots group, now 
consisting of 2000 members, which 
was organized to highlight the
plight of the Ogoni people. The 
Ogoni people contend that Shell 
Oil has not consulted or compen
sated them for the environmental 
damage they have done to the oncefertile Ogoniland. The video showed 
a farmer standing next to a rup
tured gas line spilling onto his 
fields. According to the video, there 
are approximately four oil spills 
per week in Ogoniland, most due to
Anna Fortin/Tartan Photo Staff
equipment failure or corrosion.
There was a time in my home 
when we didnt have water to drink 
because most of the rivers were pol
luted because of leakage from oil 
fields. So, we looked up to God and 
the rain came. But the rain was also 
black from the gas lines from the oil 
fields. There was a time when even 
drinking water was a luxury, said 
Wiwa after the video.
The response of the Nigerian gov
ernment to MSOPs protests has 
been quick and brutal. Ogoniland is 
now sealed off and under martial 
law. Recent attacks scattered across 
10 villages resulted in 750 deaths 
and left 30,000 homeless. The video 
featured graphic depiction of the 
Please see WIWA, page L5
Wiwa expressed his discontent with the brutality 
Shell Oil's drilling practices bring about in Nigeria.
who are actually from a feminist club at 
Chatham, played songs like Rebel Girl 
over the PA, which set a tone for the 
night. During the march, several people 
earned signs bearing messages like Hey 
hey mister keep your hands off my sis
ter and Barbie will fuck you up. 
Passers-by had mixed reactions as they 
witnessed the march push on through 
the rain. Some cheered as they walked 
by or honked their horns and waved, 
while one man in his car stuck his downturned thumb out the window.
But as the march ended at Pitts
By ANNE RAY
Tartan Diversions Editor
Last Friday, despite the rain and cold, 
a group of women marched down Forbes 
Avenue, chanting: Were women! Were 
here! Were fabulous, dont fuck with 
us! They yelled atthe top oftheir lungs, 
fists raised, taking over the whole side
walk. Even though many of these women 
had never met each other, they were 
drawn together under one common pur
pose, which was clear by listening to 
their chants. What do we want? Safe 
streets! When do we 
want em? NOW!
This group, which is 
not actually comprised 
of all women (there are 
men, but you could 
count them on one 
hand out of a group of 
150), is raising aware
ness of violence 
against women, 
through the annual 
Take Back the Night 
rally. The goal is to cre
ate an environment 
where women do not 
have to live in fear in 
of violence, and where 
survivors of past vio
lence can feel sup
ported. Both survivors 
of rape and supportersof rape survivors at*-as* Friday, victims of sexual violence and their supporters took back the night.
tended the march and vigil.
Before the march, the group, made up 
mostly of students from CMU, Pitt, and 
Chatham, met in Doherty Hall 2210, 
where Patrice Walters of Pittsburgh 
Action Against Rape (PAAR) spoke 
briefly on rape. Walters works with rape 
victims and survivors, which means 
anyone at any stage of recovery from an 
act of violence.
People ask me if I like my job, said 
Walters. I say, Sure. But really, Id 
prefer not to have to do it. But the reality 
is that its not going to happen in my 
lifetime, or in your lifetime, but I have a 
six-year old daughter, and shell have a 
daughter who wont know the meaning 
of sexual violence, and I want to thank 
you for being the first step in making 
that happen.
On the outside, this rally appeared 
aggressive, radically feminist. Before the 
program got underway, the organizers,
William Pitt Union, the aggressive
ness subsided into empowerment, as 
a candlelight vigil was held in sup
port of survivors.
For victims, one of the first steps to 
recovery is to tell and re-tell their sto
ries. And the stories told at the rally 
were powerful and difficult to hear. 
Walters said that alcohol and drugs are 
the biggest connection to sexual vio
lence, and many of the stories related to 
times when the victim, or the perpetra
tor, was drunk or high.
Rebecca, a CMU freshman who wanted 
her real name withheld, told of how she 
was raped twice at age 13 when she was 
drunk and blocked it out until she came 
to college. She told her story at the rally 
without flinching and with barely any 
sign of emotion.
Other stories, like Katherines, made 
it clear why Rebecca wanted her name 
concealed. She told of two instances of
violence, once in her own neighborhood, 
when two men chased her in a truck 
until she climbed a tree to escape. And 
another time, when she was raped at a 
party by someone who she thought was 
her friend.
Theyll call you liar, slut, cunt, 
bitch,  Katherine said. They told me 
because I was drunk that it wouldnt be 
wise to press charges.
As the vigil progressed, the stories the 
survivors told became more emotionallycharged, and the night took on the pur
pose of more than just awareness  it 
allowed people to 
take steps toward recovery. Another 
young woman said 
that it was the first 
time shed spoken 
about her experience 
of abuse since she 
was seven years old, 
when she was 
pushed away by 
unsupportive family.
Even though the 
rally started on the 
CMU campus, only 
a handful of the 
group actually were 
CMU students.
I think its be
cause this campus is 
so fucking apa
thetic, said Emily 
Gustabsen, a sopho
more design major. I think the event 
could have been publicized better, but I 
think people just didnt care.
Its ironic that Im asked [about why 
Im here], said Jay Woodward, a junior 
computer science major, one of the few 
CMU men present at the rally. I actu
ally support this cause, yet you ask me 
why. Its like I cant be supportive. Its an 
issue that everyone should support. 
Everybodys hurt if a woman is hurt. 
Sexual violence stops love from work
ing. Thats why Im here.
One of the leaders from Chatham 
summed up the night with her com
ments, as she abandoned the micro
phone and shouted to the crowd. 
Within us is the power to do what
ever we want. Find that light like 
those candles, take that control. Some 
people dont know the power that they 
have  believe in yourself, no ones 
going to do it for you.
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor
iSCfScFC FxFcrerss
FESTIVAL, from page LI There were a few problems
nament. This year is following bathat were overcome during the 
sically the same format as previcoordination of the festival. For 
ous years, said Midkiff. instance, there was difficulty
Some events that Midkiff reserving space on campus and 
thought students would apprecibringing outside people to serate were the Ballet Ngoma, the vices offered on-campus. For 
Personal Journeys, the cooking example, the committee gave
Two years ago ... they had [the 
festival] in the orientation tents. In 
the future, I would like to see that.  
 Justin Mingo, junior IM major
workshop, and the fashion show. 
The Ballet Ngoma is an African 
drum-and-dance ensemble, the 
cooking workshop gave students 
the opportunity to learn tradi
tional recipes from Africa, and the 
fashion show displayed clothing 
of that region of the world.
The personal journeys are lec
tures by students, staff, faculty, 
and community members, and 
theyre designed for a more inti
mate setting that highlights 
peoples experiences in a differ
ent country. For example, one 
was a panel discussion about Afnca, another was someone dis
cussed traveling through Africa, 
sort-of a backpackers guide to 
Africa, said Midkiff.
The Student Panel and Recep
tion was important; I think that 
diversities play a big part in the 
scholarly studies of the world, and I 
think thatit is important that schol
ars know and understand the myths 
and truths of Africa, said Susan 
Caldwell, a junior art major and a 
member of the International FestiVal Committee. Caldwell was re
sponsible for the art show at the
rame. [The art show] was African 
work, but it was African-American 
work. It was student work... instead 
* people outside the University.
traditional African recipes to 
campus catering and had them 
cook the food.
Two years ago, before the 
creation of the UC, they-had 
[the festival] in the orientation 
tents. In the future, I would 
like to see that. It gave [the 
festival] more of a festival at
mosphere, said Mingo.
ORACLE*
Oracle Corporation leads the information technology industry with its top level software and consulting services. We are currently hiring bilingual, technicallyoriented graduating seniors. Please join us for Oracle Japans information session*.All majors and nationalities are welcome.
Monday, October 27 
6:30 - 8:00pm 
Connan Room 
University Center
Online employment Info 
http://www.oracle.co.jp/HR/
* All tlie information & materials will be presented in Japanese language.______
JOURNEYS, from page LI
environment and explained the 
benefits and detractions of his liv
ing situation. I found the entire 
situation helped me learn how to 
deal with people, and to under
stand that there are good things 
and bad things about everything.
Other items discussed by pan
elists included race and ethnicity 
in Uganda, growing up in South 
Africa, dispelling myths about 
what people think of Africa ver
sus what it is really like, and the 
experience of returning to ones 
native country for the first time.
Other talks included one by Dr. 
Vincent Sinabulya, a Pitt gradu
ate student, who spoke about the 
experiences of women in Uganda. 
Sinabulya described many of the 
hardshipswhichwomeninUganda 
face, from hard labor to widespread 
occurrences of sexually transmit
ted diseases. Women process the 
coffee from the growing point to 
the selling point, but at the selling 
point, the man takes over, said 
Sinabulya. The money goes in the 
mans pocket.
Sinabulya gave an in-depth 
description of the problems that 
are arising due to an outbreak 
of AIDS among the women of 
Uganda. He explained that af
ter Idi Amin was overthrown, 
Amins men went all over the 
country raping women, thus 
making Uganda a country with 
numerous AIDS cases, of which 
most are women. However, 
Sinabulya also pointed out that 
Uganda is ranked second after 
the United States in the fight 
against AIDS. In addition, 
Sinabulya discussed the recent 
move to power that women have 
taken, becoming more involved 
in government, and taking a 
stronger stand on issues impor
tant to them. You can convince 
a man to be corrupt very easily, 
but you cant convince a woman 
to be corrupt so easily. 
[Sinabulyas lecture] gave an 
insight into how women in other 
countries strive to gain freedom, 
said Ridzwan Nordin, a sopho
more information and decision 
systems major.
Brian Smith/Tartan Photo Staff Manager 
Some of the Personal Journeys were comprised of student panels.
Students at the Personal Jour
neys lectures left with their eyes 
opened to new aspects of culture, 
and new ideas about countries 
that they might have never 
thought of before. It was inter
esting, because living in the U.S. 
we arent exposed to anything 
like this, said Nordin.
The Personal Journeys series 
served as a way for people to learn
about Africa in a more casual set
ting, making the experience ex
tremely interactive. Theyre re
ally interesting. I know nothing 
about Africa, but after [one of the 
Personal Journeys], I felt like I 
knew at least a little bit, said 
Heidi Adick, a junior majoring in 
psychology and German. These 
things only happen once in a while, 
but they can be really cool.

---------------------------------------------------

Help build
f/r TSfScr OT f/r
Int
Less than two years 
after its launch,
Juno is already the 
second-largest 
online service in 
the United States. 
More than 2,800,000 
people have created 
Juno accounts.
Every day, thousands 
more sign up.
Alk tfJo ti'vi k!li 
&! cJI v& jE&o ofi RiYvllvlYa
Il !IkiI o! b!lovlEi !EI 
krlJAvb YI!tofD ti liik 
o! iONJlk !EI &oJcc 
kIJAJovbJ""r vl J"A!&o J"" 
JIiJ&D vlb"EkvlYw &!cotJIi 
ilYvliiIvlYD AJIkiovlYD 
oi"ib!AAElvbJov!l&D &J"i&D 
cvlJlbiD JlJ"r&v&D NI!kEbo 
kivi"!NAiloD YIJNfvb ki&vYlD 
&oIJoiYvb YI!tof Jlk 
AiARiI &iIvvbi&a
Wi !l"r fvIi Elb!AA!l"r 
oJ"iloikD Jbb!AN"v&fikD Jlk 
vloi""vYilo vlkvvvkEJ"& 
Ni!N"i tf!D vl ofivI cvi"k&D 
JIi ofi viIr Ri&oa Ic r!E JIi 
J b!""iYi &ilv!I !I YIJkEJoi 
&oEkilo tvof J Iib!Ik !c 
!Eo&oJlkvlY JbfviviAilo 
(vl Jlr cvi"k!EI NIi&vkilo tJ& 
Jl SlY"v&f AJj!I)D 
ti tJlo o! fiJI cI!A r!Ea
WJlo o! Ri J NJIo !c !li !c 
Fortune AJYJzvli& T!N 25 
G!!" Tibf G!ANJlvi&? Wi 
tv"" Ri vloiIvvitvlY GMU 
&oEkilo& Jo ofi GJIiiI GiloiI 
!l M!lkJrD P!viARiI 17ofa 
mERAvo r!EI Ii&EAiD vlb"EkvlY 
GPA (3.6 !I JR!vi) Jlk mAT 
&b!Ii (1400 !I fvYfiI) o! GMU 
GJIiiI GiloiI Riotiil TfEI&kJrD 
ebo!RiI 23Ik Jlk Wikli&kJrD 
ebo!RiI 29ofa
s!I Jkkvov!lJ" vlc!IAJov!lD 
b!loJbo E& Jow
UEl! eluGJANE& RibIEvoAilo
jEl! el"vli miIvvbi&
120 Wi&o 45of moIiio
39of s"!!I
Pit Y!IkD PY 10036
!lbJANE&FIibIEvoajEl!ab!A
JUNO
Free Internet E*mail

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 1997L5
HifAoAsf reiOScFnrs 
bOiOff TOc AejSsfAir
WIWA, from page L3
aftermath of such attacks. The gov
ernment claims the attacks were 
thekesult of ethnic clashes, but the 
Ogoni people blame the government.
Saro-Wiwa was arrested in May of
1995 and detained with no access to 
medical or legal help. Amnesty In
ternational declared him a Prisoner 
of Conscience. Despite international 
outcry, Saro-Wiwa and eight other 
Ogoni activists were hanged by the 
Nigerian military dictatorship on 
November 10, 1995. There are now
Wiwa explained that the Ogoni 
are not against Shell drilling oil in 
their land, but they are asking to be 
treated as others would be treated
 things as simple as burying pipe
lines and putting out the fires that 
are burning. .
We are not against producing 
wealth through the production of oil. 
We believe that if [Shell is] going to 
produce oil in Ogoni, they should 
produce it as they would in the U.S. 
or Europe, said Wiwa.
Currently, it costs three dollars to
We ask consumers to think about this oil 
you are using. People are killed, women are 
raped before it comes here [to the U.S.].
 Dr. Owen Wiwa 
________________human rights activist
19 more Ogoni activists in prison 
awaiting the same Tribunal that 
sentenced Saro-Wiwa.
We are asking all those who tried 
to save my brother and the others to 
also go on to write letters to Shell 
and the Nigerian military on behalf 
of;the Ogoni 19 who are in jail to
day, said Wiwa. They are as inno
cent as I am. I was also declared 
wanted by the military though I am 
not a criminal. We are not declared 
wanted because we are military 
criminals. The people who are 
wahted are the writers, the journal
ists, the doctors, and the lawyers..
While there is drilling in other parts 
of'Nigeria, the problem is especially 
severe in Ogoniland because the land is 
heavily populated. The patch of fertile 
land located in southeastern Nigeria 
was once home to people who made 
their living from fishing and farming. 
In 1958, when Nigeria was still a Brit
ish colony, Shell began extracting oil.
make a barrel of oil in Ogoni com
pared to about 10 dollars in the 
United States. Wiwa attributes the 
seven dollar difference to environ
mental and human-rights debts 
placed upon his people.
About 55 percent of the oil Shell 
produces in Ogoni is exported to the 
United States. Wiwa urged the au
dience to write to their congress 
members in support of an embargo 
on Nigerian oil now being consid
ered in Congress. Wiwa also urged 
consumers to write or send the post
cards that were distributed before 
his talk to President Clinton and 
the CEO of Shell Oil.
We ask consumers to think about 
this oil you are using. People are lulled, 
women are raped before it comes here 
[to the U.S.]. We arent asking for 
moneywe are asking you to write to 
Shell. As long as you go on using that 
oil, they will think everything is okay, 
said Wiwa.
zFbACArs bOej jScAen xrrgrej
By ENA KHAN
Tartan Managing Editor
Food, money, and a pat on the back. 
Family Weekend seemed to be the 
perfect opportunity for students to 
refuel themselves for the second half 
of the semester. Many students took 
advantage of the University-sponsored events while others just spent 
quality time with their families. Re
gardless of which ac
tivities they partici
pated in, the week
end left students feel
ing a little fatter, a 
few pennies richer, 
and proud to be CMU 
students.
The weekend is an 
important time for 
students, family mem
bers, faculty, and staff 
'to join together to 
share information and 
discuss issues, but 
also to relax and en
joy one anothers com
pany, said Dean of 
Student Affairs 
Michael Murphy.
For the freshmans 
parents its impor
tant that [the Uni
versity has] events.
When [our daughter] 
was a freshman, we 
went to see the presi
dent speak. We felt 
that our daughter had really landed 
in the right spot, said CMU parent 
Joan Rowland.
The University planned a variety of 
events, from a robotics seminar to facscheduled events. Seven student am
bassadors were hired to greet and as
sist families during the weekend. They 
were here to provide exceptional cus
tomer service, said Hoover.
In spite of the many resources, some 
families were confused by the over
whelming number of events and an 
incomplete program that did not list 
the locations for events. The way it
ties, especially because of the combi
nation with the International Festi
val, said Murphy.
Those who did attend the events 
appreciated a place for parents and 
students to interact. At the same 
time, many of the lectures and pro
grams were geared to interest par
ents rather than students. There 
wasnt anything we could do toulty speeches to tours of Pittsburgh.
The weekend, titled A Gathering of bombarded with too many options, oth
ers found the activities enhanced the 
weekend. [International Festival] is nice 
because it gives students something to 
do with their parents, said junior psy
chology major Rachel Schwartz.
Some say they do like it. Others say
Friends, was planned extensively by 
Mary Hoover, director of Family Week
end and a coordinator of Student Life. 
To ensure success, pre-registration was 
available and an informative Web site 
was created. An information hotline,
in addition to the Web page, allowed its too much, said Hoover, 
students and their families to obtain My sense is that there is a bit more 
information about hotels, parking,.and - going on than at many other universiwas arranged was really strange. It gether.... I was surprised. Last year
was so much bet
ter, said Starr.
Parents, however, 
valued the events 
which kept them 
busy while then chil
dren were unavail
able. You can let 
them have their 
space and at the 
same time grab them 
whenever you can, 
said CMU parent 
Gerri Huryk.
The Huryk fam
ily attended the 
mens soccer games 
to cheer on their 
sons team. Its 
good to have them 
support the team 
because not a lot of 
kids come out, said 
David Huryk, a 
sophomore biology 
major and a mem
ber of the CMU soc
cer team.
Low publicity for Family Weekend 
made it difficult for some families to 
attend University-sponsored events. I 
didnt really notice anything going 
on, said Skevos Psaras, a junior me
chanical engineering major. Poor ad
vertising and the overwhelming num
ber of activities. contributed to low 
attendance at many events.
We havent seen [our daughter] in 
two months. We wanted to see how 
she was doing, said CMU parent 
James Liu.
Were just using this weekend as an 
excuse to see our daughter, said CMU 
parent Richard Rowland.
Anna Fortin/Tartan Photo Staff 
Flocks of families descended on campus last weekend to visit students.
was kind of unorganized. The things 
we wanted to do were hard to find for 
[my parents], said April Starr, a jun
ior design major.
While events planned for the Interna
tional Festival left some families feeling
HCnrcAFe LOCAfAis FTTrif xOcCj
ADDOU, from page LI
democracy. When there is diver
sity in a country, those in power 
admit tolerance, Addou said.
Because of the authoritarian 
power and corruption that gov
erned Algeria, the people be
came ^increasingly dissatisfied 
and revolts occurred. In 1984, 
the Islamic political party took 
control of the government with 
the hopes of suppressing the dis
content of the masses.
At that time, all the 
rights of Algerian women 
were, taken away. The Is
lamic government felt this 
was necessary in order to 
restore the strength of the 
patriarch.
The leaders of our coun
try would say that the 
women have to go home.
They are taking our jobs.
If they go home, we will 
bring back moral order,
Addou said.
In addition to women 
being denied the oppor
tunity, to work, they were 
also forced to wear veils 
over their faces at all
We go outside and speak out. 
People say, Why do they go to 
work? They can be killed. I 
have never thought to stay 
home. I have almost been killed 
many times. I think I have 
seven lives, she said.
Despite the restrictions that 
women must face every day, they 
are, in fact, major players in the 
political system.
Unlike other places, women
power over the Algerian people. 
While resistance to the partys 
power has been increasing, 
200,000 people have been killed.
The organizers of the Interna
tional Festival felt Addou was a 
timely speaker in that the Ameri
can media has recently been giv
ing the situation in Algeria a great 
deal of coverage. While Addous 
speech was moving, it also was 
informative in that it shed light
f
CarnegieMellon
University
Chris Cannon/Tartan Sports Editor
times while out in public.Students listened intently to Addous theories about Algerian politics.
Women who refused risked the in Algeria are very different. Alchance of being killed or gerian women have a part in the 
brought into the underworld of war as soldiers. We have
sexual slavery.
The government does not want 
to lose the upper hand over 
women. They have taken away 
the womans stature, Addou said.
I was not shocked by the 
horrors she described, because 
Ive had the same kind of ex
perience as a native
martyred ourselves. Women 
have always been active partici
pants in the political agenda, 
Addou said.
While the mid-80s brought 
oppression into the lives of Al
gerian women, the entire coun
try faced change in other areon issues that were not fully un
derstood by some students.
I was pleased to see people 
engaging in discussion follow
ing the event. A number of 
people expressed to me that 
their eyes were opened to events 
that they were otherwise un
aware of, said Heather Midkiff, 
assistant dean of Student Ac
tivities and organizer of the In
ternational Festival.
Though some students were 
already familiar with the subnas. Islamic political philosoRwanda. I am glad that she is phy infiltrated the schools,
able to; let others know about Addou said it was common for
; what is; happening, said Insix-year-old boys and girls to ject matter of Addous speech,
nocent. Bagamba, a freshman learn that killing was necesthey felt she had a great impact
computer information systems sary to please God. on the audience.
; student at LaRoche College. People were stripped of their All tales of human abuses 
A member of the audience culture, their identity, and their are shocking, no matter how 
 asked Addou if Algerian women history. These young people were much you hear about it. Repetitry to join together to overcome being brainwashed, she said. tion makes it no less striking, 
the injustices that have been At the same tim, poverty said Douglas Harrell, a senior 
among the masses and corrup
tion within the government be
came the norm. However, after 
the election of 1992, the Islamic
placed upon them.
Many women form groups 
to fight for rights. Women go 
outside; without their veils
art major.
Algerians are my people, but 
they are yours, too. What is hap
pening in my country is an infracAeCrC
knowing , they may be killed, political party maintained its tion of humanity, Addou said.
7efrC Oe 
IFbLSs
Youve learned what it takes to compete in school. Now, check 
out what its like Jo Compete in global markets and advanced 
technology arenas. Representatives will soon be on campus to 
provide in formation about careers with Intel. As the worlds 
largest chip maker and a world leader in everything from PC's to 
the Internet, Intel offers a variety of exciting career opportunities.
Information Session
Dale: Sunday, November 9, 1997 
Time: 7:00pm
P"Jbiw Student Center, Room 203*
Wi tv"" Ri IibIEvovlY c!I ofi c!""!tvlY YI!EN&w
svlJlbi
P"JllvlY & L!Yv&ovb&
* (.'heck cun finned room locution with Career Planning am! 
Placemen I ('eitler on cam/ms.
See ns on the World Wide Well at www.intel.com/intel/oppty
2liMU 1eeoJWNlDUerl ea FRD ndtgU lJJroUiveUp MeeeJUlpMogDIU UeeULp atJJtoe-x tVUEoeeleeLwn gntve JtTenrB 
UtUnU jiUar EatJJUee 2a g eUotsoUoYn H'ohJ2eenY gve oneJeeona ieve gUU rUUnea torelJUlpvnli fM ,lee elwMeie ve 
aieeeaRee'UB0Re LKoneneiiJUeppvneiU eUvt iMai enaeeUUaE nRPPB 2liMU 1teJreNgUeriiE 2lUMU gve eUtE Ueiene 2lsr goM 
oMpeaUMeMT eoEeTMlLeeoa rUP 2liMU 1vJroeeUeve<

---------------------------------------------------

ever after. You cant argue with Plutoone
by Scott Adamsby Gary Trudeau
OKAY, IADMrrT-THERECENT SPATE OF BAP NEWS 
HA6 60TME A L/TTLE BIUE!
CAN I 
X ISTERESI 
YOU IN A 
BASEBALL 
SIGNED BY 
MOSES?
I'M GOING INTO THE 
SPORTS MEMORABILIA 
BUSINESS.
I'VE HEARD THAT MOST 
AUTOGRAPHS ARE 
FORGERIES , SO MY 
INITIAL INVESTMENT 
WILL BE LOW.
HOU)COULDTHEY
BREAK
{RANKS?
m? AT TIMES LIKE THIS -WHEN1 
TUB UJORLD TURNS DARK AND | 
UGLYTHATI TURN TO MY I
TRBST SOURCE OF COMFORTMY f 
ONLY HOPE FOR THE FUTURE... j
V -vj NQucrr\
r \Dat
COULD
LIGGETT
e:OODe
WOU)/ THACT'S 
GOING TO BE 
WORTH 
SO/AETHING.
i you 6o,MR.B.you 60!
PgMiab n
SPORTS NNEfAORABlLIAOF COURSE, TTS WTAUM/5 EASY 
SIGNING 'EM UP! YOU HAUE TO UNDO YEARS OF ANTFTOBACCO 
PROSEVYT/Z/NG! \ .
VES, LOHEN TM FEELING POUJN, 
m? KiDS -RALURECRUrrS-lOHO 
HELP CHASE THOSE NAUGHTY. BLUES *UMYfr^L
GUT I DON'T SEE 
WHERE THE 
AUTOGRAPH IS.
STILL, I DO ENJOY THE. 
HUNT FOR.Tartn r
YOUNG N 
^LUNGS'. m
IT GETS AUTOGRAPHED 
LATTER TONIGHT.
w 600P * MORNING?, 
MR. MERCHANT OF 
.P5ATH!
YOU)! THIS I BATCH IS 
ORGANIZED!THIS IS THE BEST PRICE 
I'VE SEEN FOR A BASEBALL 
AUTOGRAPH ED BY 
BABE RTH.
I'LL TkKE THIS 
AND THREE Of 
THE HONUS 
WAGNER CARDS.
YOU SAY THIS 
FOOTBALL COAS 
AUTOGRAPHED 
BY JESUS...
LISTEN, KIDS, rr WONT BE LONG 
BEFORE YOU'RE TEENAGERS, 
AND YOU ALL KNOW UJHAT 
THAT MEANS-REBEOJON!
BUT m NO FOOL. 
THIS ISN'T A FOOT
BALL. IT HAS NO 
STITCHES.
FORGET fZ \ 
MR. BUTTS! 
YOU'RE NOT\ 
WELCOMEJ 
HERE! m
FIFTH-GRADERS! 
TALK ABOUT 
BRAINUU5H3)/
SEE-1 YOU'RE NOT 
REAIPY FORTHAT 
STUFF! TH4TS WHY 
SMOKING IS THS SMART CHOICE!
SO IFNCTTBV 
SMOKJNHOW 
E166 ARE YOU 
GO/N6 TD ACT OUT?1 
UNPROTECTED I 
SEX? DRUGS? CRJME? EARRIN&S? I
UNPROTECTED
[WHAT?OJOU3
ANO I THINK 
I HEARD IT 
OINK. .THEY
HEALED.
AUTOGRAPHS FOR SALETOO BAD 
YOU DON'T 
HAVE ANY
THING 
FRO/A 
HI/A.
ITA IMPRESSED, BUT 
WHAT ITA LOOKING 
FOR IS SOMETHING 
5IGNED BY MARTIN 
LUTHER KING JR.
eiYERYONE/N 
THIS CLASS HAS JOINED 
THE CAMRV6N FOR TOBACCOFREE KIDS!
FORGET IT, MR. 
BUTTS! WE'RE NOT BUYING!
CUE KNOW BETTER!
WHAT l$?\
WHAfD
ISAY
YOUNGSTERS! DONT] 
YOU JUST CUANTO 
EAT'EM UP? WOW... A SOFTBALL SIGNED 
BY MARTIN LUTHER, 
LEADER OF THE 
PROTESTANT REFOR
JAS NATION.
CHECK BACK 
IN TEN 
MNUTES.
YEAH!
WELL, SURE, BILVY. BUT LIGGETT 
ONLY REPRESENTS 2% OF THE 
INDUSTRY! 987 OF US SLL SAY SMK!NEIS SAFE! THAT'S 9*7.!.
YOUCANTFOOL 
US ANYMORE,
MR. BUTTS I THE 
LIGGETT COMFANY HAS ADMTTTEP 
THAT SMOKING 
KILLS!
ASK QUESTIONS AT 
MEETINGS. BUT fAAKE 
THEK EASY SO YOU 
DON'T EfABARRASS 
YOUR BOSS.
IF YOU COANT TO BE 
PROMOTED, YOU HAVE 
TO BE HIGHLY VISIBLE.
...SO IF THERE'S AN 
ACCIDENT IN A COMPANY 
CAR j COHERE SHOULD COE y 
BURY THE
SURVIVORS? i USUALLY 
V PUT THEIA IN
CT~? THE TRUNK.
tf BILLY! t  YOU'RE \\kCHomm
/A AY BE SHE 
GOT SPOOKED 
COHEN YOU 
PUT THE LAWN 
CHAIR IN HER 
YARD. V
VENETIAN
Bl79dut
MIMbmm
UNFOR
GIVING.
MRAPHERMALM! 
Pt KN/CKKNACK5! 
GEAR? BRIC-A-BRAC! 
CUOCU! ALL LUTTH TOR 
DIKE. LOG 09!WHAT? f^Bfe
USTEN, THE MAIN REASON WE REACHOUTTOK/DS /S 
THAT CUE WANT YOU 10 
HAVE FREE GEAR!
I'VE BEEN SEEING 
A BEAUTIFUL COOfAAN. 
BUT SOMETHING 
CAfAE BETWEEN US.
MO/? YOU'VE GOT ITALE WRONG, BILLY!
JuioSn.:MR. BUTTS.YOU'RE snTRYING TO 
TARGET , KIDS! I
HEY!LUHATS\ 
GOING ON i r HERE? m
-\wEU,m s OFF! GOT A QUOTATO F/IM.HER
CURTAINS?
m MISS ^ 
McGOiMN!
'OH m, TELI ME MORE! \
KE! YOUR UP5.S0 SUPTLE, XT LIKE FRESH TOFU. 
AM> YOUR HANDS, SO 
MALI ANI) : FRMrHlE AN ABORTED EMBRYO'
OH POOPSI E! LE FS MOVE 
TO THAT BENCH OVER THERE!
171DEAR, I'D LIKE ^ Qrl VOU TO POOPSIE TRIS.
OH POOPSIE! YOUR EYES TWINKLE. LIKE THAT OF HEADLIGHTS FROM ONCOMING TRAFFIC... AND YOOR SNN...Y0UR SKIN IS SO 
SMOOTH LIKE THAT OF A 
FRESHLY MILKED COW'S BREAST
NO! NO! WE RE 5JUIT00 YONG AND 
IMMATURE FOR THAT!!>
(.(b(b(b,,NU(b(b(b(b
5VrB arlB prt TeTlXi HoMn the ngoE (rt HoMnMT 
my ngoE:
5GMUUB pXaMM cgTB ei HgalXi ar vtnf g Jgoip ga 2i 
Hga g tolEEE g nMUM?ogierl r) tolEEE r) Ue)ME
EpQiii
ill 
because your parents said they were good for you
O
ne day, my frienddecided he needed
packed up his. 
and went to _ 
expected his _ 
and
(proper name)
a break from his job as a(n) _______________. So he(occupation)
(noun)
(place)
(noun)
home as(verb, past tense)
_ and got in his______________________________
(adjective) (vehicle)
.. But when he got there, he never
to _____. So he turned around
as he could, and every(verb)
(adverb)

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 1997L7
are q^o all rfefrf? uu |oo/< I
Ylnfc
"ttlis p|ash is jerrite. -found
buXs in "^e ^ ^ ~^e glasses.___________
btj Joseph Hoc kin1'}
8)<3-VT>
S
tJe^h, f Knouj. ; jus+^fcf je//ed 
aV-for-irafng-fa make wy
10-2.7-57
X rfiaOfX^eci fo
9.rr 9MeS fAe.
+Ufin^is bu-h X
couldn^ ruO 
f-oreui~
CaUlb arshtrn "for tack
<^d maar -suO-ofi-i (oere on rmj s/de...
come here o-ften? F maybe 
" I see ifau here...um...i 
Thrr?k i should g "fp ciass.
1^5 a good -Hiingj f'rtt o^/y # 
size 9 shoe.mattes i-t"easier
-hi p^H
^rJ^L.ck
^ ^"Ti ^v\vj r^ocyfk..
Resurrected from the dead (art files)...
Okay, I admit it. I have no idea 
where this came from (other than 
the drawer in the file cabinet where 
I found it), nor do I have any idea 
how it's relevant to anything. But 
its funny, isnt it?
And I bet you thought Elvis was still 
alive. Well, I have news for you.
Hes dead. Dead,dead,dead, dead,
DEAD!!!! Otherwise I wouldnt have 
been able to resurrect him, right?
W Ef-'iaU
l1>rojri@em*''AU.Tof+s.eJb ^
S:oftr + <aCAH;.<(u
flf, Pol'+C Mqnt Tkf Gftd 
fo,r-tj GvU.iUk tas Jt/j+ 
he^ft 455^55iMr*l(rt <(>*?' 5} SfcowW Pisr\ iv\ 4* affU 
Wc. qnt F<~- *
*60eA. TW 5 Vix-Tory 45 -rte S/e5T4 IiWM4 
fv+M CundiJ.T Tint oJP1 (hlc
"8v/+ afeni 3w 
<*S555rAS d'0?1'
Of i''<r5< HOT. X hi'r<(
tin TOT<(L itCuv.'-^PlDTcGtiV,
*^nw t<vk -*lwAr W
The Hot rT Spicy 
Comics Survey
We want to know what you want to be 
splitting your side about in the comics 
section. So this is your chance! Send this 
handy-dandy clip-out survey to us via 
campus mail and let us know!
1. Which comics do you read regularly?
Carnegie Mellow
Doonesbury
Ilios
Non Sequitur 
Peds
Stickworld
Dilbert 
Graniteville 
Kid F
Over the Hedge
Robotman
Zeroman
2. What comics would you like to be read
ing regularly?
3. Are you a sheep? (circle one)
Yes No
4. How can we make you laugh?
send to:
Comics Guy
The Tartan 
Box 17
\

---------------------------------------------------

L8The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 1997
by Jim Meddick
REALLY? WOW - It'S ipli.miee. thws ww i buy suchBLAHS ClOtHES... (MYBE IT'S 
Tim fop iaeto STcP roUOWlNG 
THE HERD At refus/' START , EWRKSW&
W lOHm)N,
wm...i cwT Y market mmm has ie&ro&-wne or showh tw wen boyI Off-VJHTO... V COHSEWWE CL0TH6S, V__HOT MISE Cf THHRxxxMIjO1 CkM eeewse.-Ifg El TH6M a9ecB9RIS V W (wane foppiw oPiiuS/tfft A /Vvsaf-WSORMP. .
UEY,YlOONW& \BACK AWAY FfSW WE. wwi's it 01N&' I pr&teHd vje hbjer net H A 1 "f NAYBE,MSTMAYBE,
g,Ne wmm STi^ K
viER SM I ATOPTW tAY NEW LOOK, J. B0 CHECK1N0 ME OUT..
kI2DI2MkbMO I2. X WE. TO STOP.
b(130 unie lHy(bDybm
FRIEND,YOU TOT UNTERSTAND7DHDNPIlH' uIoH b PlOF STYLE WHO HASTHECOURte. 
TO NO WART FRotATHE CROW.
OWMWNt, ALLOW HIE TO RNNEM PITH HELMET FIKM THE SECT SO YOU i^CAN SITwr^
60... 
WWICW oNE 
16 YOUR6?
WCW(,WRE > 
Locme fKmck
BECAUSE VOI LOOK 
UKEA LUNATIC.. 
vmy
vn=yCAUTWSEETtA TRTOS TO FINISH JAY PUTT HERE? ,
SORRY. WE MSTTOOKYOO 
FOR A FIBER6LKSS 
V CLCWW...
UNTIL I 
TooK TUIS 
JOB, l Wt 
A. UALF-FULL 
KIND op 
GUY...
V f HEY, ' 
[ LOaK' 
,T[g]LbPIoH-S
eh*BSctLkM79QTfuLfa
LiSWMJKT
SEE ? NEPTUNE. WAS IMTHS HOUSE CF THE RISING SUN AW A MACK HOLE WAS W WE.
tool shed op uramus. TT^mislsTHE' 
s SbT" LZ&i Closest to? -Ms EME8C0WETOWjJW^% w?) \ BkITTAR7C9 4-Si^3 V? V VtTROL&Y.
Your. stars loo VERY BAD TOm. ALL 
HtVM ENTERPRISES will tml. old 
ROUTINES WILL ALSO FAIL. JUST STAY 
VHVOCRS MEATCAtUNET>R3Cp. J
SAME ASYES3>AY'...W ISN'T Wff HOROSCOPE EUER UPBEAT > \ LIKE. SWER PEOPLES ?!]j
,RdIk7rsrVIslK GOUWR A VERY ;
^UNLUCKY 5lsly3rv^\
Wk z7pUakd 7wMu H Bkwwka uHtR79pu 79Ik9w7Rk wUH9 KCosglztjl CmopHII1U9wttt
okO10-23
AQWWS TO tAY dgjopvlp,CFvFATuy. 
WHEH HERCUPY ECLIPSES (4EPTUNE,SOUR 
OHLY Ho?E IS Kc djSgwb Ket 5fKeacc1 !
ACCOWb TO THE STARS,YOU MUST SPEHO 
MI-b OHEo5 IkE OEm)EHDbO b th7VUrG eUaWrNFd Bs ;sraw uaUac7 ,Nv ,7vUU Vr9aUU dBh  62 NNNNNNNNNNNNNNNNN
\NMT A NWWT....HOVO 00 T KNOW WBE H&TJUSTBAWM&TWSOP?.
SEE FOR. Easss / YOU^ YOURSELf... ^ ^ CAW'T 
PLUTO'S ISi (YTT%i W&yEVRETROSRAKyYV)  Virm>----------ys> ^ PLUTO,
iV=^Nrt W\ \ SLWEI 0$M/ WJ/ > VA
lkwMu JUuw uHW w2Hw wUk KHKHaHZZ7 H9d 7 UHRk IOWk wO H MUwUHl U9dkauwH9d79ptt
10-24 Vll=/
HR. WEAR TWIS CRYSTAL AROUND YOUR NECfc. IT VJILL A8S0RB ANY NESATOEENER6Y FIELDS rr< i YOU EMCDUWTER... _____
Ket 1cta7
GtoAE PLAN
OH.eDSH.DWIVOTHATX'tV REALLY, REALLY SORRY...! 6UESS I DIDM'T NOTlCETUf...TUEN CRENSHAW 
HANDS oFF To UK 
AENT To CHECK 
FoR ANY CONFLICTS 
WITH HIS CONTRACT, 
WHo THEN HANDS 
OFF To CRENSHAW'S 
PROBATION OFFICER...
amm^ WET CEMENT
10-25 va=yWEI SITE: http://www.wtJeytDom.com E-mail: wtieyc>wtleytDom.eom01997 Wiley Millerdlit. ky Waihlngton Foit Wrltiri *rii
by Michael Fry & T. Lewis
HELL BE 
DEAP BEFORE 
THE SECONP COMMERCIAL &RE.AK
r KIPS... ^ 
THEY HAVE TO 
EXPERIENCE 
EVERYTHING 
FOR THEMv SELVES. >
^ AND NOW, BA&Y CLARA, 
ANOTHER 6EM 
OF WISDOM...
SOMETIMES 
I WONDER 
IF WE'RE 
GETTING) 
.THROUGH.
ON STAR TREK, IF 
THERE'S AN ACTOR YOUVE 
NEVER SEEN BEFORE ON AN "AWAY TEAM...
TO OTHERS > f 22wK E
Tif ^Ai5 a(O4ID lTCWwR IEMPTY. A TUMOR. I'M
TELLING YAii...
TO SOME, +* IM SO 
THE GLASS / PRETTY... 
IS OH, SO
FULL... PRETTY...
I Ja OH, SO
, X* 77X.
^ f AND NIFTY\w\I-I-I-iL'
THE GLASS IS 
IRRELEVANT.AND TO 
OTHERS..
&LURPGi.UK 
fa. Gok. S GLUC;)__> &L0OK.
..EEEu.77KE
29Xu C 
1.7V m.m
fg'4olW$ivww.hedgeweb.com
VELMA,YOURE
LOOKINGESPECIALLY
NONTHREATENINGTODAY.
FROM YOU, NO...
IF i ACCEPT YOUR 
COMPLIMENT, YOU'LL BLOW 
IT UP INTO SOMETHING 
THAT IT ISN'T.
...THE ANCIENT 
MESOPOTAMIANS THOUGHT THAT 
SHOOTING STARS 
WERE THE SPARKS GIVEN Off BY GOD 
CHEWING ON A 
WINTERGREEN 
CERTS.
I GUESS 
THIS MEANS 
WE WON'T BE PICKING OUT 
SPORK PATTERNS...
JEEZ.' CAN'T A GUY GIVE A GAL A 
COMPIMENT?
OBVIOUSLY... \ ITS COMMON 
KNOWLEDGE THE MESOPOTAMIANS 
WERE INTO 
SW&ETARTS. i
WHAT'S
YOUR
ANGLE?
JUST 
KIDDING.. 
I MADE THAT UP.LOOK/A 
SHOOTING STAR/...
 hedgeweb.com-C1007 Unltod Fatturo Syadicato, Inc.
VERNE, I'M NOT 
GOING TO MARRY YOU A. MCi\ TOP AY, 
NOT TOMORROW...NOT EVER#
WHAT IF I DIE AND 
I'M REINCARNATED AS A CROSS BETWEEN JIMMY SMITS AND 
YERTLE THE TURTLE?
GO FOR THE MARASCHINO 
CHERRIES.
I ALTHOUGH HIS RECOIL LEAVES A BIT 
y TO BE DESIRED. /
YOU AREscooWEIRD....KEEPHOPEAum'
SID'S 
GETTING GOOD AT 
THAT...
i o-xs
<01Z Fg^lv^.

---------------------------------------------------

DIVERSIONS
Volume 92, Issue 8The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania27 October 1997
dFeir LrcTOcbFeir bcAens SeAf
By SUSAN MURRAY
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The University Center is a fairly ster
ile space. High, brightly-lit ceilings have 
their merits, but where is the sense of a 
gathering place for people? This week, 
when walking through the wide, hollow 
corridors, occasionally you might have 
heard the sound of drumming. It is a 
little odd, given the nature of the place. 
The sound of a drum is a very human 
sound; it is the sound of civilization and 
culture. It is the sound of people working 
together, exactly the opposite of the sort 
of interaction implied by the design of 
the University Center.
This past Saturday I had the chance to 
watch a group of people working to
gether with the dance form Capoeira. 
Gapoeira 'tomes from the .Caribbean, 
parts of Angola, and Brazil. It was in
vented by slaves out of the traditions 
they brought with them from Africa. 
The movements are low, quick, and fluid. 
Though it is very rhythmic, it is hard to 
ever be sure of what the dancer will do 
next. Capoeira is functional; it served as 
a combative training tool. The planta
tion owners believed it was only danc
ing. Slaves werent allowed to learn to
fight, so they learned Capoeira.
Capoeira is also an art form; the noncombative versions of the dance are a 
celebration of the human form. It was 
the celebratory form of Capoeira that 
the workshop I watched focused on.
The instructor was a lady with a lot of 
energy, assisted by three drummers; 
she lead a group of eight students 
through a Capoeira series. She encour
aged each student to strive for perfec
tion. Frequently she would send a dancer 
back to try it again. Everyone found 
some degree of success, but those who 
were able to release themselves and 
really listen to the sound of the drums 
made the greatest connection to the 
movement.
As the workshop progressed, a small 
group of people gathered outside the 
glass window of the aerobics room. Many 
watched the entire class, and several 
expressed interest in trying the dance 
themselves. Because there were no 
breaks, and because the dance became 
more difficult and complex as the work
shop progressed, it was almost like 
watching a performance.
When Capoeira was developed for com
bat, the movements were designed to be 
intimidating. The dancer tries to fake
out his competitor through unpredict
able and surprising moves. In the joyful 
version of Capoeira, the moves once de
signed to fake out become moments of 
discovery for the dancers and audience. 
One particular movement, asuddenjump 
in the air resolved upright with the hands 
on the hips, caused a reaction of delight in 
the audience outside of the room. The 
jump came right out of the quicker lower 
movements, and was still a surprise, 
even the third or fourth time.
The workshop required some dance 
experience  so only a few people had 
the opportunity to really participate. 
The joy of Capoeira is in have the oppor
tunity to try the movements. Perhaps 
some of time could have been devoted to 
the beginners.
The workshop altered the environment 
of the University Center. For awhile we 
were all watching or dancing together. 
It is the strength of the art form that 
allowed a sense of community is what is 
normally a cold place.
The African Dance and Drum En
semble Kuumba Workshop will perform 
Langstons Hughes Black Nativity De
cember 5-21 at the University of Pitts
burgh. Tickets are $15.00.
Stacey Tetzlaff/Tartan Photo Staff
A workshop on Capoeira, a form of dance invented by slaves, was held on Saturday.
On the catwalk...
Show displays African fashion
By RYAN DONOVAN
Tartan Assistant Diversions Editor
Simply put, African cloth
ing is beautiful, regal, and 
sexy, said emcee Nicole 
Ayala, sophomore in H&SS, 
at last Wednesdays African 
Fashion Show. By the time the
printed mostly on cotton fab
ric. They were all of traditional 
African styles, but reflected the 
recent developments in mod
ern fashion.
For the show, the models pre
sented a variety of traditional 
articles of clothing. Models 
Wilkinsburg eighth grader 
Delshawn Anderson and senior
show had finished, not one of IM major Sameer Karim each
the 80 or so people in the 
Rangos Hall audience were 
left doubting this.
The show, held as part of this 
years International Festival, 
displayed a wide variety of fash
ions from all areas of the Afri
can continent, with Mali, Nigewore a type of shirt known as a 
dashiki. A dashiki is very roomy 
and comfortable, and has a low 
cut v-neck collar.
Most models wore either a 
type of hat called a kufi, or a 
headtie. The Yoruba people of 
western Nigeria have a provLisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
The clothing in the Africa Fashion show featured customary patterns, each of which has an individual story.
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Wednesdays African Fashion Show displayed clothes from countries such as Mali, Niger, and Ghana.
Ghana,
South Af
rica, and 
Kenya 
s p e cifically rep
resented.
The show 
gave an 
excellent 
represen
tation of African fashion, which 
most Americans would be 
clueless about.
Ayala set up the typical stereo
type of the African fashion: na
ked upper body, bare bosoms with 
breasts flapping in the air, and 
raffia skirt for the lower body. 
Then she and the models dis
pelled this idea as the fashions 
were displayed. African people 
have always been fashionable, 
said Ayala.
The fashions were full of bril
liant colors and vibrant pat
terns, hand and machine
There is no beauty in a headtie that is 
not wrapped properly, neither is there 
beauty in a properly-wrapped headtie that 
does not fit the head of the wearer."
 Yoruba proverb
erb about headties: There is 
no beauty in a headtie that is 
not wrapped properly, neither 
is there beauty in a properlywrapped headtie that does not 
fit the head of the wearer. 
The patterns on the clothing 
were also traditional, having 
history of their own. The mud 
cloth pattern, traditional to the 
people of Mali, appeared on sev
eral of the more modern out
fits, modeled by Karim, 
Michelle Manson, a freshman 
in CIT, and Justin Mingo, a 
junior in IM.
One of the most interesting pat
terns was a wedding outfit, mod
eled by Aminita Croulet, a fresh
man in H&SS. The outfit was 
printed with the picture of the 
bride, a common way Nigerian 
people honor the bride and groom.
Jumoke K. Ewedemis store, 
Alafia, an Africashop, provided 
all of the fashions seen in the 
show. She set up a table out
side the auditorium, to display 
and sell clothing and jewelry. 
Much of the jewelry was sym
bolic, the elephant symbolizing 
good luck, copper for healing, 
masks for protection, and the 
cowrie shell for life and abun
dance of blessing.
_________________ But none
of the items 
for sale 
were used 
in the traditional 
Yoruba 
rituals. 
Those are 
too sacred 
to sell, said 
Ewedemi.
The show was a fun and lively 
occasion, in large part because 
of the crowd. Ronald 
Fernandes, a PhD student at 
Heinz, commented on the 
shows variety. I thought it was 
a great, great idea, he said. It 
was good that all the models 
werent African, that all differ
ent countries were repre
sented. This statement is just 
proof that even to the casual 
observer, African styles are uni
versal, appropriate, and fun for 
all people, regardless of race or 
nationality.
dcSb brFf fFLs HTcAiFe LSCsr
By NIA ROGERS
Tartan Staffwriter
Kayaga of Africa graced the Inter
national Festival with a drum work
shop that not only entertained and 
informed, but gave participants an 
opportunity to understand a culture 
by being a part of it.
The main element in their work
shop was; of course, the drums.
One was a bare wooden piece, 
double-headed with supple light 
tan leather that matched the 
unadorned wood. The heads, 
arching over the sides of the drum, 
were bound by criss-crosses of thin 
leather. The hide of a scaly reptile was 
smoothed on to the head of a long highpitched-drum. Three kettle-like drums 
of decreasing size sat in a line on the 
floor. Covered with luxurious brown and 
black spotted cowhide, they called to 
mind papa bear, mama bear-, and baby
bear. Around the rim of the drums I saw 
how the wear of vigorous playing had 
smoothed and shined the head, and I 
realized that despite my reverence of 
their natural and simple beauty, they 
were not objects merely to stare at.
A young woman cheerfully waved us 
toward the drums circled in the center of
the room. The group was from Uganda, 
she explained, and they would be teach
ing us four pieces from east Africa. She 
introduced the masters Dan and 
Mohammed and immediately the lesson 
began. The Kayaga players smiled, 
pointed us toward drums, and began to 
play. After a few minutes they indicated
that we should join in. We tried to keep 
up but after a few phrases, Mohammed 
stopped us and clapped out the rhythm. 
Gwanga mujje! Gwanga mujje! We 
beginners repeated it, Gwanga mujje! 
Gwanga mujje! On the drum, he com
manded. I held the stick limply and beat 
out Gwanga mujje. The others joined 
in faster, and faster, louder 
and louder. Gwanga 
mujje! Gwanga mujje! 
Gwanga mujje! called the 
drums. People come! 
they pleaded urgently. 
Outside, parents and sib
lings and students milled 
around, eating O-fries, and talking about 
the new Purnell Center for the Arts, and 
how cold it was. How could they resist 
the call of the drums? But it didnt mat
ter because we were all in a groove. Our 
minds and bodies were completely fo
cused on staying in the rhythm and 
Please see DRUMS, page L13
Each drum has a voice. 
 Mohammad, drum master, on 
traditional Ugandan rhythms
AFRICA,
entertainment J#
courtesty

---------------------------------------------------

L10The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 1997
By PALAK SHAH
Tartan Staff writer
In the realm of female pop/alternative 
singers enters a new artist, Holly 
McNarland. Jewel, Alanis Morissette, 
Tori Amos, and Meredith Brooks each 
have their own styles, which make them 
unique, while Holly, on the other hand, 
is a complicated mix of these artists.
Who: Holly McNarland 
What: Stuff 
Company: Universal 
_____________________________
She has an angry tone in her voice which 
is somewhat analogous to the work of 
Meredith Brooks, but she is also able to 
soothe the soul with a few Jewel-like songs. 
The variation is great, but in an already 
crowded market, it becomes difficult to 
distinguish between these artists.
But, since McNarland is not terribly 
popular, its a nice change of pace from 
the drilling of Jewel and Morissette you 
get on the radio. All the artists have 
great songs, but the radio stations over
WHAT WOULD YOU DO IF 
YOUR OFFICE COMPUTER 
WAS STOLEN ?
Many Universities and Colleges lose c 
to computer theft every year. Studies show that 95% of 
these thefts involve no forced entry, and are done 
internally by someone whom actually is allowed access 
to the equipment. So protect your...
* computer hardware, internal chips, memory, etc...
* department budget from expensive replacement 
costs, and potential liability suits.
* information and data - the most valuable & irreplaceable 
part of your computer, yet rarely covered by insurance.
Now, Ameritech, Inc. and Minatronics Corporation can 
provide you with a complete fiber optic Office Security 
system for $99.95 and less. Visit us at:
www.lightguardian.com
and order your system today for piece of mind, 7 days 
 per week, 24 hours per day. Or call our Corporate office
g at 303-670-8800 between 8:30am-4:30pm CST.
Mastercard and Visa accepted.
CHir tWeiAK BUTS M COMPUTtKS AT CARNEGIi-MEUOITiPmstUlieH POST SA2ETTE
HcfAsf TFACs fO jATTrc TcOb LFig
MsfrcAOSs rejAen sLOACs TAer TACb
By DAVE ELMAN
Tartan Staffwi'iter
I must admit that my expectations 
were not too good for A Life Less Ordi
nary. When I first learned that the plot 
involved two angels coming down to earth 
and getting two people together, all I 
could think was cheese city. Since the 
film is the work of the same people who 
created Trainspotting, I wondered how 
they could go from one extreme to the 
other. Needless to say, I was pleasantly 
surprised with A Life Less Ordinary. By 
no means the striking, film that 
Trainspotting was, it nevertheless is a 
pleasantly absurd take on the romantic 
comedy.
 1997 Twentieth Century Fox
The daughter of a corporate executive, Celine (Cameron Diaz) is a sardonic character.
j What: A Life Less Ordinary 
Director: Danny Boyle 
Company: 20th Century Fox
replaced by a robot, dumped by his girlThere are a couple of outdoor shots 
friend, and had his car repossessed. He that are breathtaking, and the film 
doesnt cope very well. Instead of throwmoves along at a nice pace. John Hodges 
ing himself into a drinking binge or script is very funny in places, such as 
pining in his room, he finds himself when Robert tells a gas station attenconfronting the CEO (Ian Holm). He dant, Youre a man  not a slave, not a
 1997 Twentieth Century Fox 
Ewan McGregor (Trainspotting) plays an assertive yet out-of-work janitor.
Our first clue that this is not a normal 
film from the genre comes in the opening 
scene. Amidst an all-white background 
that recalls George Lucas THX-1138, 
angels in white suits and dresses scurry 
in an office-like environment. Their ob
jective is to bring romance to various 
people on earth. OReilly (Delroy Lindo) 
and Jackson (Holly Hunter) havent been 
doing so well lately, and so they receive, 
an ultimatum: They must succeed on 
their newest case or be banished to earth 
forever. The potential match? Robert 
(Ewan McGregor), a cleaning man in a 
gigantic corporation, and Celine 
(Cameron Diaz), the daughter of the 
companys boss.
Robert has recently been fired and
unsuccessfully demands his job back, 
and after he escapes the security guards 
who try to eject him from the office, 
kidnaps Celine.
Unfortunately for him, hes not very 
good at it, and she has to help him quite 
a bit. From here on out, the angels have 
a lot of work to do bringing the two 
personalities together.
The whole film feels 
absurd, from  Roberts 
bad hairdo to Celines 
habit of shooting apples 
off peoples heads, and 
this is what separates it 
from the normal roman
tic comedy.
The fact that the angels appear as normal humans and not 
muted supreme beings keeps them from 
being a painfully cute plot device. Their 
superior, Gabriel (Dan Hedaya), is 
grumpy enough to be an inner-city de
tective, yet he is drawn lightly enough to . 
come off as laughable. The plot itself 
also seems to be a nudge from the film
makers; it is entirely unbelievable and 
knows it.
The direction by Danny Boyle is 
above-average, with many tilted cam
era shots and unusual angles, and he 
has the ability to make the ordinary 
interesting. He has good help in cin
ematographer Brian Tufano and edi
tor Masahiro Hirakubo, both of whom 
worked on Trainspotting.
machine. Never forget it. A few scenes 
dont seem to fit, though, most notably 
the token this will never work scene 
that usually occurs in a car.
The acting meshes with the plots ab
surdity  Diaz and McGregor are cari
catures whose every idea is an exaggera
tion, and there is a suitable amount of
"The plot itself also seems to 
be a nudge from the filmmak
ers; it is entirely unbelievable 
and knows it 
overacting present. They do make a very 
pretty pair, however. Lindo and Hunter 
are a wonderfully fallible celestial couple, 
surviving a number of mishaps and set
backs like two Energizer bunnies.
The only thing I would say detracts 
from the film is the mysterious ending 
that includes kilts, claymation-style 
animation, and a castle. I didnt really 
understand it, but then again, maybe I 
wasnt supposed to. I got the impression 
that nothing in the film was what it 
appeared, and the conclusion only con
firmed that.
A Life Less Ordinary is just the blast 
of relief needed in times of stress  a 
slick, wry vehicle from a talented group 
of filmmakers.
TTTT^ T A TIT A \T Vkr7.u Eem.rs1 7g121Ha1H9 & e*t lecyd* t
play the songs to an extent where you 
become tired of listening to them.
After listening to the album over and 
over, I found that this is the wrong way 
to approach the album. Scan through 
initially and, depending on your mood, 
home in and pick a song to listen to. 
Afterwards, scan forward and find the 
song which sounds the most similiar 
and repeat the process.
Although this might sound somewhat 
absurd, its the only way you can gain a 
true appreciation for the album and all 
its qualities. Some of 
the songs are quite 
harsh and at times very 
direct, yet others lure 
you in with mere 
rhythm and finesse of 
lyrics.
I dont really know 
where to begin when I 
start to speak about the songs. To say 
that they are merely a blend of different 
sounds of this era would do it no justice. 
Alternative music is something I wont 
really pick up on unless its drilled into 
my head by the radio stations, so natu
rally you wont find me at the store 
buying alternative albums, but 
McNarlands album is excellent. Even 
the extremely hardcore alternative songs 
are somewhat easy to listen to. You can 
actually go through the 11 songs with
out wanting to reach for the remote to 
change the song. McNarlands voice var
ies from song to song, leaving you to 
wonder how she goes from screaming to 
soothing. Tom Lord-Alge, who also 
worked on the Wallflowers album, mixed 
this album.
[McNarland] is a nice change 
of pace from the drilling of 
Jewel and Morissette you get 
on the radio. 
If you like all the female pop/alterna
tive artists, go out and buy this album 
for a change of pace. If you really enjoy 
her work, you can also get this young 
Canadians previous albums, Mr. 5 Min
utes and Sour Pie.
 1997 Universal Records 
Holly McNarland combines elements of pop and alternative on her album, Stuff.
WRCT to host local bands at monster mash
By SHARMILA VENKATASUBBAN
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
In 1947, back when CMU existed prima
rily as an engineering school, a student in 
electrical engineering started a small radio 
station for his class assignment. As a small 
carrier-current project, Radio Carnegie Tech 
broadcasted through mainly dorm rooms 
and major academic buildings. Today the 
1750-watt freeform station not only reaches 
listeners throughout the city and its sub
urbs, but is also one of the leading influences 
on Pittsburghs independent rock scene.
In honor of its 50th anniversary, WRCT 
will host Tainted Candy, its own monster 
mash this Halloween in the Weigand Gym
nasium. With 10 bands, three DJs, hor
ror films, and the traditional (and not-sotraditional) party games just-like-mommade-you-play-back-in-the-day, the radio 
station plans to celebrate its birthday 
and at the same time show off some of 
Pittsburghs indie-rock talent.
The station started in the direction of 
independent rock about 15 years ago with 
local discoveries of punk rock and new wave, 
said Doug Mosurak, WRCTs jazz director 
and a senior English major.
The costume ball will feature Don Cabal
lero, a local group that has been touted as 
one of Pittsburghs best kept secrets. As a 
heavy instrumental rock band, Don Cabal
lero has defeated the popular contrivance 
that modern listeners need vocals.
These guys are excellent musicians  
and they dont let that get in the way of 
making good music together, said Neil 
Donnelly, general manager of WRCT and a 
junior materials science engineering stu
dent. [WRCT1 has been supporting [Don 
Caballero] since they started outand 
theyre still getting a lot of airplay. 
Don Cab havent played locally in 
three years, as they have just recently 
reformed in town, said Mosurak. But 
just about every time I saw them live ... 
it was an epiphany.
While most Pittsburgh bands tend to 
stay close to home, Don Caballero has 
snagged numerous gigs from Cleveland 
to Chicago.
When Pittsburghs rock scene gained 
some local momentum between 1988 
and 1989 WRCT members were inte
gral participants in the local music 
scene as well, said Mosurak. As the 
years progressed it seems to me that 
the influence the station had on these 
people managed to shape the direc
tions of what was to come, what we 
have now, and what will continue to 
happen, he said.
Other bands to play at the benefit 
include Young Pioneers, Rye Coali
tion, Four Hundred Years, The Im
possible Five, Operation: Re-informa
tion, Jumbo, The 1985, Lustre King, 
and Hurl. The costume ball will be the 
last show for both Don Caballero and 
Hurl, another local group supported 
by WRCT. I feel really excited that 
such a momentous occasion could be 
tied in with the 50th anniversary, 
said Mosurak. Ive been to at least 75 
percent of the shows Hurl has played 
around here in the last five years.... A 
lot of their songs carry very special 
meanings with me.
These [local indie-rock] bands play
live on WRCT and we spin their records as they 
come out. I think the station plays a pretty big part 
in getting the bands noticed around town, which is 
a pretty big step to start regional touring, said 
Mosurak.
Each set will last roughly 45-minutes, 
with DJs spinning in between sets. 
Donnelly expects a minimum of 200 people to 
attend the concert. This is a good chance to hear 
good bands  a chance to expose yourself to a lot 
of different kinds of music, said Donnelly.
courtesy Touch and Go Records 
Don Caballero, a local band, will play on Friday night 
at WRCTs costume ball, Tainted Candy.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 1997111
Hcf rx/AbAf CFigs jcFbFfAi fOSi/
Anthony Chao/Tartan Photo Editor 
These dancers employed fast footwork In their performance Friday night.
Tribal Ugandan dances 
praise traditional rhythm
By TOM LIANZA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
The African dance on Friday night 
was one event in particular as to which
I was completely uneducated. I was not 
sure what to expect, but I was looking 
forward to seeing something that I had 
never seen, perhaps experiencing a cul
tural activity that I never understood. 
Indeed I got what I expected  colorful 
costumes, rapid dancing, and music cre
ated by not much more than the mouth 
and the hands.
The opening dance was said to have 
been performed in front of a Ugan
dan king. This dance set the tone for 
the evening. Two brightly clad 
women danced at high speeds, mak
ing music as they went because there 
appeared to be bells on their ankles. 
Two men dressed in white played 
drums with their bare hands, and 
the rest of the music consisted of 
shouts and singing.
Perhaps the most enjoyable part of 
the show was when the Kayaga dance 
group asked for volunteers to come up 
and play the drums. Five kids got up, 
and a man gave them each a rhythm to 
play. Once they had all got going, the 
man on-stage started to dance to the
music. The audience smiled in particu
lar to a young boy who was beating the 
smallest drum.
The audience was then taught a com
mon greeting where we ask phonetically 
copano? meaning How are you? and 
they respond copei! meaning Fine, 
thank you. This was a small break from 
the action and it regulated the pace as to 
not let the audience forget that they 
should be participating. The actors kept 
the viewers involved in the show, and 
asked all of us to move up so we could be 
in a group.
They next did a dance in praise of the 
cow. The dance itself simulated the 
movement of the animal, and this con
cept was extremely foreign to me. Ameri
can tradition doesnt involve worship of 
or behaving as animals.
Watching the dances was very inter
esting, and it broadened the horizons of 
the ethnically diverse crowd.
In a time when dances like this are 
only seen on PBS specials, it is great to 
see them in person. Whereas your aver
age American viewer might change the 
channel past traditional dances, the au
dience was completely into it. A good 
time was had by all who attended, and 
the beautiful Ugandan dances will not 
soon be forgotten.
By SUSAN MURRAY
Tartan Junior StaffWriter
The Hewlett Gallerys new exhibition 
is dry despite its content. Trek of Tears 
consists of color photographs that docu
ment recent migrations of people in 
Rwanda and Burundi. Though the art
ist, Martha Rial, gives us a frank por
trait of migrant life, there is something 
lacking in the presentation and compo
sition of some of her photographs. The 
photographs are journalistic, in that the 
event occurring in the photograph is 
often more interesting than the raw 
image itself.
The photos are mounted beneath glass, 
flat on the wall, more in the style of a 
museum placard than artistic prints. 
An enlarged color print, Grateful, domi
nates the gallery depicting a small boy 
surrounded by the hands and feet of 
adults. The boy smiles up at the viewer.
The photos are colorful, bright and 
realistic. It is refreshing to see a photo 
show that is more real than artistic. 
Looking at color prints reminds us of 
family photo albums, or newspaper ar
ticles; this connection brings Rials im
ages closer to the personal world viewer. 
Still, Trek of Tears, like other color shows, 
wrestles with the problem of maintain
ing cleanliness of composition.
Rials composition, in many of the 
photographs, is far from striking, and 
is even, at times, cluttered. A photo
graph of several people in a graveyard, 
consisting of dark mounds of dirt and
twig crosses, seems almost mundane 
until I read the tag: Graveyard of Chil
dren. Once I knew the significance of 
the image, I began to feel something. 
The photograph on its own was mean
ingless. Similarly, a man sitting out
side of a thatched roof construction look
ing at the sky has little significance, 
unless you know that it is his First 
Taste of Freedom.
The shows lack of drama can be seen 
as something of a strength. Because 
the images are not stark and dramatic, 
the subjects are humanized. When look
ing at the shows charter imageBitama, 
it is easy to forget that she doesnt 
speak English. She looks familiar, like 
the girl next door. All of Rials images, 
even Dying Alone, which depicts an 
orphan crumpled with hunger and dis
ease in a hospital bed, are immediate 
and real. Because her images are real, 
we know that the pain and suffering 
depicted in this exhibit is a part of our 
world, not some ideal world of art be
yond our own experiences.
Some of the images are quite strong: 
notably, Moment of Solace, in which a 
small boy clings to his mothers bright 
blue apron. The apron dominates the 
frame. It is an excellent use of color. The 
title Moment of Solace is a bit narrative, 
but excusable because of the connection 
between the concept of solace and the 
color blue. Another strong photograph is 
Food Distribution Day, in which several 
people stand behind a rough hewn fence 
waiting. The feeling of hunger is made
evident through their hands, which they 
rest through the fence. The fence be
comes obstacle seeming to hold the people 
back, despite their relaxed attitudes. It 
is a image that shows the suffering that 
occurs when a persons life is forced to be 
primarily concerned with most basic of 
human needs.
The arrangement of Trek of Tears is a 
bit haphazard. The images come in no 
particular order. This lessens the possi
bility of story telling through a series of 
related images, or a sense of journey for 
the gallery visitor. Rials enlarged im
age seems to have been chosen at ran
dom. Its position at the center of the far 
end of the gallery causes the visitor to 
expect Grateful to hold some special 
significance. I was puzzled as to why 
this image was more important then the 
others. Still, the intermingling of scenes 
of life and death does causes the viewer 
to see the migrants as whole people, 
with lives consisting of both beautiful 
and painful experiences.
Even though Trek of Tears is not as 
dramatic as past installations, it man
ages to show human suffering and joy in 
a new light. One that is less sentimen
tal, jarring, and realistic.
Trek of Tears runs from October 7 to 
29. The Hewlett Gallery is located on the 
first floor of the College of Fine Arts 
Building. Gallery hours are 11:30 am to 
5:00pm Monday to Friday and 11:30 am 
to 4:00 pm on Saturdays and Sundays. 
Admission is free.
Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan DarkroomManager Lisette Miller-Dixon/Tartan Darkroom Manager
(clockwise from left) A student takes In the presentation of Martha Rials Trek of Tears; the photos feature portrayals of 
children in Rwanda and Burundi. Rials journalistic presentation of her work creates an atmosphere fact rather than drama.
Band rules historic indie scene
By EMILY LANDES
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
With record companies toting 
the coming of the British 
reinvasion, Britpop, which went 
out when grunge came in, is sud
denly fashionable again. Bands 
like Oasis and Elastica are all
Who: Pulp
What:Greatest Hits
Company: Red Rhino
experiencing the sort of sudden 
fame that hit the Stones and the 
Beatles 30 years ago. However, 
some bands have been waiting 
around for a good 10 to 15 years
terial, which for the most part, 
has never been heard by their 
new fans.
Aside from discs like Count
down Pulp, which is sort of a 
chronicling of greatest hits, Pulp 
has also re-released their first 
and second full-length albums in 
their entirety. These albums may 
be a surprise, though a pleasant 
one, to fans of Pulps most recent 
incarnation. They are clearly ex
perimental and reflect a great 
deal of the bands maturity, or 
lack thereof.
It, released in April of 1983 
by Red Rhino Records, is a much
Hold Your Hand. However, some 
of Pulps current trademark sar
casm is evident even in this first 
album when one hears lyrics like 
Ive got this love inside of me 
and then notes that the name of 
the song is Wishful Thinking. 
Pulps second album, Freaks, 
released a full four years later, 
sees the band leaving the 
navet of It far behind. The 
first song, Fairground 
aquaints the listener rather 
quickly to Pulps newfound dis
illusionment and anxiety. 
Cocker is certainly not refer
ring to a Barnum and Baileys
for their overnight success. 
Pulp, formed in 1978 by a 15- 
year-old Shefieldian named 
J arvis Cocker, is one of these over
looked bands. Pulp has been an
different Pulp than the one of type fairground.
Different Class, mainly beSome sort of freakish Ray 
cause, well, its happy. This Bradbury creation maybe more 
poppy album exhibits the song accurate. Instead of idealizing
love, Cocker mocks the 
joy he once found in it. 
Songs like  I Want 
You are sweet pop 
tunes without lyrics 
like I want you/1 need 
you / Ill keep you / Ill 
keep you and Ill throw 
myself away. Sugary 
flutes have been re
placed by darker in
struments like clarinets and 
violins (played masterfully by 
Russel Senior, who has unfor
tunately left the band recently 
to pursue other interests).
These albums may be a surprise, though 
a pleasant one, to fans of Pulps most 
recent incarnation. They are clearly ex
perimental and reflect a great deal of the 
bands maturity, or lack thereof.  __________
Weekend Blockbusters
LOS ANGELES (AP) October 26, 1997
1.1 Know What You Did Last Summer $13.1 million
2. Devils Advocate
3. Kiss the Girls
4. Seven Years in Tibet
5. Gattaca
6. Fairy Tale: A True Story
7. In & Out
8. Soul Food
9. A Life Less Ordinary
10. L.A. Confidential
$10.3 million 
$5.2 million 
$4.8 million 
$4.4 million. 
$3.4 million 
$2.86 million 
$2.2 million 
$2.1 million 
$2 million
 1997 Mandalay Entertainment
writing skills of a very inno
cent Cocker as he discusses his 
search for love.
It has a gentle and almost 
acoustic quality to it and at some
indie favorite for years, but they points (for example, the ethereal Also, the now famous Cocker
only achieved mainstream suc
cess recently with then 1995 alhumDifferent Class, which broke 
the Blur/Oasis strangle hold on 
the American market.
They havent yet released a 
follow up to this phenomenal 
album. Instead, they have rereleased some of their older maBlue Girls) even takes on a ser
enade-like tone. Adding to the 
light-heartedness of this album 
are the peppy notes of flutist 
Barry Thompson, and 
keyboardist Simon Hinkler. 
Love Love is so peppy that it 
bears a remarkable resemblance 
to the Beatles circa I Want to
monotone, is first evident on 
this album in songs like There 
is no Emotion and Life Must, 
be so Wonderful.
If and Freaks are well done, but 
are very different albums. They 
are musts for both long time Pulp 
fans, and for those among us who 
are just catching on.
Katin0 Disorders
T
Friday
herapy Group
For more information, contact:MorningsDr. Cynthia Valley
a8S mm  ass panCounseling &
Psychological Services
268-2922

---------------------------------------------------

Sponsored by the Division of Student Affairs - 268.2075
687-9555
8 V I p
Silicon Valley Internet Partners
Innovation and Insight for the Internet
Information Session : Friday Oct. 31st 
Student Center Room 203 
4pm - 6pm 
FREE PIZZA FREE PIZZA FREE PIZZA
SVIP is a professional services firm 
that partners with some of the most 
well known companies in delivering 
strategy, design and technology 
solutions that enable clients to develop 
new ways of doing business on the 
internet with partners and customers 
worldwide.
We are looking for unique individuals 
with all levels of experience ready for 
an intense environment and a desire 
to make an impact.
Offices : New York, Boston, San Francisco 
Website : www.svip.com 
Contact Information : 
Neeraj Bansai (412)-802U8415 , neeraj@svip.com 
Julie Chang (212)-271U6900 , jchang@svip.com
a faculty member 
at Carnegie Mellon since 1946, has 
spent his academic career teaching 
literature with a focus on 
Shakespeares works. A writer 
himself, he is the author of two books 
about Shakespeare's comedies.
Shakespeares works have been read 
differently by each generation since 
the sixteenth century. A description 
of Shakespeare's works often reveals 
more of any generations beliefs than 
it does of that generations insight 
into the meaning of the plays 
themselves. Join Professor Hart as 
he explores Shakespeares works and 
the phenomena surrounding the 
varied interpretations of his 
literature.
Dr. John Hart
Associate Professor Emeritus, English
A reception will be held after the lecture
Adamson Wing, Baker Hall
PIZZA OUTLET
Oakland/Shadyside 
4740 Baum Boulevard
1Lre 7 dFs F Wrrg
Sunday-Thursday 11 am - 2am  Friday & Saturday 11 am - 3 am
ONE-TOPPING 
K7ZZHu 
for only
Limited time offer, at participation locations only, no coupon necessary, not valid with any other offer.
A SCIITE FOR LESS 
THAN A HOTEL ROOM
Elegantly furnished oneor two-bedroom apartment suites include an equipped kitchen, 
fluffy linens, TV, VCR, cable movies, free local phone service, and reserved parking.
Conveniently located at 5405 Fifth Avenue, Shadyside. Two blocks from Walnut Streets 145 
fashionable shops and 12 delicious restaurants. One mile to CMG/Pitt/Hospitals.
DAILY, WEEKLY, MONTHLY RATES
5405 Fifth Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232(412) 441-4444
http://Pittsburgh.net/Shadysidelnn/
+tax

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  27 October 1997L13
uwUdk9w waHRkl
STA TRAVELWeve been there.
WITH VERY SPECIAL SU5I
and
79IUBUu
800-777-0112
www.sta-travel.com
uwH wcForC OTTrcs sfSjref jAsiOSefs Oe
domestic travel, fOOt
TICKETS ON SALE NOW
By ANDREW FRANCIS
Tartan Staffwriter
Although they have had a profound impact 
on the rock and roll of the past few decades, 
it has been quite some time since the Rolling 
Stones have released anything really com
pelling. Their recent albums, including Tat
too You, Steel Wheels, and 1994s Voodoo 
Lounge, are all solid efforts, but dont ap
proach the impact of watershed discs such as 
Sticky Fingers and Exile on Main Street. 
However, their most recent effort, Bridges to 
Babylon, is the Stones most engaging album 
in years. Songwriters Mick Jagger and Keith 
Richards enlisted a slew of producers to shape 
and enhance their tunes, and have produced 
a brilliant record that is neither formulaic 
nor untrue to the Stones roots.
Who: The Rolling Stones 
What: Bridges to Babylon 
Company: Virgin Records
The Rolling Stones are as proficient a band 
as ever, with Richards and Ronnie Wood 
creating blues-based rock melodies, Jagger 
bringing out various shades of emotion, and
drummer Charlie Watts effortlessly propel
ling each tune. In addition, they get some 
help from producers Don Was, Danny Saber, 
and the Dust Brothers, which gives the al
bum a varied yet still cohesive feel. Was 
produces the first and last portions of the 
disc, which include driving rockers as well as 
poignant ballads. The first track, Flip the 
Switch, as well as the first single, Anybody 
Seen My Baby, both balance classic Stones 
melodies with new styles to create energetic, 
meaningful pieces. The album concludes with 
several slower tunes, including Thief in the 
Night, a ballad sung by Keith Richards, 
featuring mellow layers of sound to back 
Richards contemplative vocals.
While the Was-produced tunes are cer
tainly worth a listen, up-and-comers the 
Dust Brothers (Beck and Beastie Boys) and 
Danny Saber of Black Grape give the album 
its real depth. Saber contributes Gunface, 
a powerful, driving tune with aggressive 
vocals from Jagger. The Dust Brothers help 
out on Saint of Me and Might as Well Get 
Juiced, perhaps the two best tracks on the 
disc. The former builds a slow groove and 
explodes into a hook-filled chorus, while the
latter creates a rather modern-sounding 
soundscape to enhance a very engaging song.
Throughout Bridges to Babylon, Jagger dis
cusses topics such as relationships and vio
lence, as is customary. What makes Bridges 
different is Jaggers ability to do so from a 
mature perspective, without seeming out of 
date. Indeed, that seems to be the purpose of 
this record: to bring out the old styles that have 
defined the band for so many years and add 
new influences to create something compel
ling. And did they ever pull it off.
The classic Stones return with a new album.
By TOM LIANZA
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Welcome to the not too distant 
future. In this time humans give 
birth to children with all genetic 
imperfections removed, and all 
aspects of their chemical makeup 
recorded on a computer. But young 
Vincents (Ethan Hawke) parents 
decided to give birth the traditional 
way; without the aid of geneticists 
or DNA manipulation. Thus he is 
born with a 99 percent chance of 
heart failure and an estimated 
lifespan of thirty years.
| What: Gattaca 
1 Director: Andrew M.Niccol 
J Company: Columbia Picj tures
In the future, genetic deficien
cies qualify you as an in-valid 
citizen, and the only jobs you can 
get are menial ones. This reveals 
discrimination in its purest form. 
It is Vincents dream to be a pilot 
in space, but his genetics make 
him too inferior to be hired by 
Gattaca Aerospace Corporation 
as anything but a janitor. How
ever, like today, there are illegal 
ways of falsifying ones identity.
Jerome Morrow (Jude Law) is a 
manparalyzed from a car acci
dent with flawless genetics. For a
price which Vincent 
gladly accepts, Jerome 
provides him with blood, 
urine, hair, and any 
other bodily debris re
quired to pull off a switch 
in genetic identity.
Thus Vincent becomes 
Jerome Morrow to the 
rest of the world. He is 
then faced with the chal
lenge of traveling into 
space, while competing 
with his genetically su
perior co-workers, and 
meticulously concealing 
his true identity.
His plan starts to dete
riorate near the scene of 
a murder in Gattaca, 
where they find one of 
his eyelashes that they 
identify as belonging to an in
valid. Vincent is the chief suspect 
of the murder, but no one knows 
who Vincent is. They all know 
him as Jerome  one of the best 
workers on the force, due to travel 
into space at weeks end.
Gattaca presents a fascinating 
scenario in which a man, doomed 
from birth, is pitted against the 
ideals of a futuristic Earth. Ethan 
Hawke does an excellent job in 
playingthe role ofVincent/Jerome, 
and he does a decent job of show
ing the audience the intricacies of
Uma Thurman co-stars with Ethan Hawke
his character. On this character 
rests the message of the movie  
that the human will is stronger 
than the human body. Perhaps 
the most intriguing individual in 
the entire movie is Jerome Mor
row. This actor does a superb job 
with the most complex role, and 
vividly shows the audience the 
emotions involved in relinquish
ing ones own identity.
Uma Thurman plays Irene 
Cassini, Hawkes love interest in 
the film. The romance aspect of 
the movie was neither necessary
in the techno-drama, Gattaca.
nor interesting. Uma Thurman 
did not play an important role, 
and her acting talents were not 
taxed at all. There seemed to be 
very little depth to the love story, 
and the focus of the viewers emo
tions was definitely on the plight 
of young Vincent.
Keep your eyes peeled for a cameo 
from Gabrielle Reece, and dont for
get that this is Andrew M. Niccols 
first time directing a major motion 
picture. The film is fairly emotional 
and fits its slogan well: There is no 
gene for the human spirit.
Mountainlair and Creative Arts Center Box Offices 
All Outlets
Phone Orders Call 412-323-1919
STA Travel... the world's largest student travel organization.
By GREG MARCKS
Thursday, October 30
La Haine
This French flick is about a dude named Abdel who 
gets the piss beaten out of him by a policeman 
during a good old-fashioned third degree. Abdels 
lying in a hospital bed sucking steak through a 
straw while people are rioting in the streets outside 
over the new respiration tax. One of the riot police 
trainees drops his gun and runs crying home to 
mama. Abdels friend Vinz picks it up. He tells his 
two goofy, bored friends that if Abdel dies theyre 
gonna wax a cop. They say cool and continue sense
lessly pummeling an old man with his cane.
At 7:30, 10 pm, and 12:30 am
In McConomy
Friday, October 31
Meet the Feebles
To quote the guy who wrote the column before me, 
these creatures are just like Muppets, except the 
Muppets are angry and have big teeth. What a 
perfect Halloween movie. Heidi the Hippo finds her 
husband Bletch the Walrus in bed .with a sock 
puppet and Trevor the Rat is trying to score himself 
some hippo action of his own. Theres drag abuse, 
venereal disease, extortion, colorful Vietnam flash
backs, robbery, AIDS, and murder all wrapped up in 
a soft flour tortilla served with your choice of Span
ish rice or refried beans. Its kind of like Pulp Fiction 
in the guise of a puppet show, except its more sick 
and tasteless and goddamn funny.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Saturday, November 1
Men In Black
When I was in Los Angeles this summer I was 
working at a Starbucks Coffee shop in Brentwood. I 
had served the same black-haired woman on several 
different occasions when finally I took a good look at 
her and said, Has anyone ever told you you look a 
lot like Linda Fiorentino? She kinda looked at me 
funny and then mumbled something about yeah she 
had heard that before. When I came back with her 
drip coffee, she said, You did a good job with the 
name, though. Most people mutilate it. I said thank 
you, wondering what she meant exactly. After she 
took her seat, the girl I was working with punched 
me in the arm and said, You idiot, thats her! I felt 
stupid, so I offered Linda a free chocolate graham 
cracker. She didnt take it.
Linda won her role in this movie and $1200 from 
Barry Sonnenfeld in a poker game. If I had $1200 Id 
buy a plane ticket and fly to Ghana.
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Sunday, November 2
The Lost Boys
The two Coreys are back, and this time theyre 
hunting vampires on the bayou. Brought to you by 
the same freaking guy who continues to deliver 
crappy Batman movies, this is a sure hit about one 
brother trying to save his brother vampire and his 
other brother vampire by killing the head vampire, 
who surprisingly enough, is Emo Phillips. Well, 
maybe its not that surprising. But let this be a 
lesson to all you boys out there: women dont just 
have awkward social diseases, they can also make 
you a vampire like that. (Snap!)
At 8, 10 pm, and midnight
In McConomy
Name the Quote:
Sorry I blew up your mom, Ricky.
(They found me. I dont know how, but they found 
me.  Christopher Lloyd in Back to the Future)
zSfScAsfAi TACb frsfs /SbFe sLAcAf
Rhythm masters rejoice in steady beats
Stones come out from under their rock
DRUMS, from page L9
riding the energy of the other players to nirvana, and then 
Mohammed signaled the end. The 
wave broke in a thunderous clap 
on the upbeat and there we were 
looking around at each other, 
laughing and. completely dazzled 
that we had pulled it off.
Dan introduced the next piece. 
Sagala agalamide... that means 
... keep working! Get up! Dont be 
lazy. After teaching us the basic 
rhythm Mohammed introduced 
breaks that began on the down
beat and then resumed mid 
phrase. Sagala agalamide,
sagala agalamide, sagala 
agalamide... GA'-la-MI-de. But 
once we had mastered that 
Mohammed pushed us further. 
Each drum has a voice and we 
want to hear each voice. said 
Mohammed. Some drums say 
Hey!  He growled the word. 
Some drums say, Heyyyyy!  
He stretched it out in a wavering 
falsetto. Other drums say TIEY! 
 he said in a deep James Earl 
Jones voice. He began the piece 
again but this time in a round. 
All the drums started together 
and then after the break he si
lenced all the drums save one. A
lone voice called out to the oth
ers Sagala agalamide! Come and 
work! and then the others, heed
ing the call, rejoined.
The last two pieces were more 
narrative. The rhythms of the 
Baki Simba mimicked the move
ments of different members of 
the ancient kings court during a 
festival dance. The larger drums 
that set the pace represented the 
kings stomping round the court 
while higher pitched drums and 
shakers mimicked the graceful 
shimmying of the women and the 
agile steps of the young men. 
Lastly the Kizino dance mimicked
the movements of cows, animals 
that were once very important to 
Ugandans. The piece began with 
a steady downbeat. The cow is 
sedately, slowly walking. Then 
the beat is doubled and the cow 
begins to walk a littler faster, a 
little more eagerly. It is doubled 
again and then syncopated. Now 
the cow is running and jumping 
around, overjoyed just to be a 
cow, and suddenly the piece ends. 
For an hour we had been united 
children of Uganda, and through 
our drumming we carried on her 
traditions while experiencing 
something pure.
: H 2210
bx1 LLI 1 pm
movies you may have seen before....,
/ednesday, November 19  WVU Coliseum  8pm

---------------------------------------------------

La Halne
will play at 7:30,10 pm, and 
12:30 am on Thursday 
in McConomy Auditorium.
Meet the Feebles
will play at 8.10 pm. and 
midnight on Friday in 
McConomy Auditorium.
The White Balloon
will play at 8 pm on Friday and 
2 pm on Saturday at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art.
Men In Black
will play at 8,10 pm. and 
midnight on Saturday 
in McConomy Auditorium.
A Star Is Born
will play jp pm on Saturday 
and 7 pm on Sunday at the 
Carnegie Museum of Ait.
The Lost Boys
will play at 8.10 pm, and 
midnight on Sunday in 
McConomy Auditorium. 
IT"
High Noon 
will play at 2 pm on Sunday at 
the Carnegie Museum of Art.
Halloween
It is a time where the spirit of 
giving is much more important 
than that of receiving. At no 
other time of the year is the 
possibility of getting tainted 
candy more hazardous. And with 
bacteria popping up In cafeterias 
and restaurants, nothing is to say 
that it won't make its appearance 
in your SweetTarts this year.
You never know when your 
Starburst might really make you 
want to burst. So take a hint.
Either be ready to give those 
door people a trick, or just dress 
up and scare that one little girl 
that decided to dress up as the 
fairy princess carrying around 
the bottle of Heinz ketchup.
Better safe than sorry.all pumpkins this page by Jnmoa Mo]onnlor/Tartan Art Staff
Trick or Treat.
...Jenny, you are 
unmackable territory....
Beth, 
Did I leave my bat 
in the belfry?
Amish Boy licks the BUNIS 
for the umpteenth time.
Roger 
Take a hint. Use the 
Listerine or dont come 
to class. Please.
Happy 20th joe! 
P\  us
Will Smith, a Man in Black, bought his kid a very realistic alien costume for Halloween.
Midnight Manna is a half-hour contem
plative worship service held in the UC 
Chapel on Thursday nights at midnight. 
Midnight Manna features scripture, mu
sic, and prayer. This week features the 
music of Estonian composer Arvo Part. 
Midnight Manna is sponsored by the 
United Campus Ministry of Pittsburgh.
3 f/r oOAir OT f/r^r^jjCr1I------------------------------------1WOS iFe FjorcfAsr TOc Tcrr 
Ae w/r wFcfFe!If you know of an event on or off cam1 pus that has relevance to the campus i community, mail it to The Tartao, Box 17 in the Carnegie Mellon University Cenj ter or email auyoung@anclrew.cmu.edu j by Thursday at 5 pm.Vox Populi is a forum open to the enj tire campus communltyl To submit a vox, , simply send it to The Tartan, Box 17 via : campus mail, drop it in the Vox Populi . drop box on the infamous Tartan Server, or email it to auyoung@andrew. cmu.edu. !Vox Populi does not want treats. It j wants tricks. Lots of them. If you have ! any laying around, or if you have goats, j please send them in.
In Search of a Legend will be exploring 
the mystery of the 1956 disappearance of 
a B-25 bomber into the Monongahela 
River. On November 12, at Carnegie Lec
ture Hall at 8 pm, members of the B-25 
Recovery Group will outline their position 
that the bottom of the Monongahela River 
has been the resting place of the plane for 
the past 41 years. The program is open to 
the public. For more information, go to 
http:lIwww.clpgh.org!exhibit/recovery.html or 
call the Carnegie Library at 622-3154.
Penn and Teller will be making things 
disappear at Byham Theater on Sunday 
at 8 pm. Tickets range from $25 to $30. 
Tickets are available by calling Ticketmaster at 323-1919.
John Hancock Tour of World Gymnas
tics Champions will make a stop at the 
Pittsburgh Civic Arena on November 30 
at 3 pm. Tickets range in price from $15.50 
to $35. Photo and video cameras are not 
permitted. For ticket information, call 
Ticketmaster at 323-1919.
Singles Dance, sponsored by the Catho
lic Alumni Club, will take place at South 
Park, Home Economics Building, on Sat
urday from 8:30 pm-1 am. Admission is 
$8 and all single people ages 21 and above 
are invited. For more information, call the 
Catholic Alumni Club at 341-4070.
Rea Haunted House will be at the Rea 
House at Chatham College in Shadyside 
on Friday from 7-10 pm. There is a $2 ad
mission fee to benefit ACTIVE (Adults and 
Children Together in Various Environ
ments). This event is being sponsored by 
the students of Chatham College and 
Kappa Sigma. For more information, con
tact the Chatham College Events Hotline 
at 365-1778.
Chinda Institute will be having an Open 
House on Saturday at noon. There will be 
a presentation of school activities and the 
philosophies behind them. Participants 
will also have the opportunity to learn ba
sic movements and techniques. For more 
information, contact Senior Master DanHoria Chinda or Jessica Rutherford, pub
lic relations representative, at 821-1873.
Roman Catholic Mass takes place every 
Sunday at 10:30 am and 8 pm in Mellon 
Auditorium in Posner Hall. It will also take 
place Monday through Friday at 12:30 pm 
in the UC Chapel.
Ryan Catholic Newman Center will be 
hosting an Undergraduate Program from 
6:15 to 9 pm on Wednesday. The program 
consists of Mass followed by a free buffet 
dinner and a discussion on the Catholic 
faith. For more information, call 681-3181.
Download the Holy Spirit in the UC
Chapel on Sunday at 6 pm. United Cam
pus Ministry of Pittsburgh holds a Protes
tant worship service each week for those 
who want to go to church but just cant roll 
out of bed on Sunday morning. Go to 
http://www.andrew.cmu.edu/~ssteck/ucm 
for more information or call 682-1051. 
Stacey Steck will be preaching this week.
Choral Compline will be performed by 
the Pittsburgh Compline Choir at Heinz 
Chapel on the Pitt campus at 8:30 pm on 
Sunday evenings. The prayer at the close 
of the day is the way that the church says 
good night. Charles W. Thompson, of the 
St. Blaise Community Parish in Midland, 
will be the guest organist on Sunday. For 
more information, call 682-6886.
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society will 
open its new season today at Carnegie 
Music Hall with the Juilliard String Quar
tet. To order tickets, call 624-4129.
Orquestra Tropical will be performing 
on Sunday at the Edgewood Club from 8-
10 pm. They will also be performing with 
the Pittsburgh Jazz Society at the Holiday 
Inn in Oakland from 7-10 pm on Novem
ber 23. For more information, contact 
Orquestra Tropical at 247-3624.
Pittsburgh Camerata will perform The 
Poets Voice: American Harmonies, a cho
ral concert of American music, on Sunday 
at 8 pm at St. Thomas Episcopal Church 
in Oakmont. The performances will be re
peated on November 7 at the Christ Epis
copal Church in Ross Township and on No
vember 8 at St. Andrews Episcopal 
Church. Both shows will also be at 8 pm. 
Tickets range from $6 to $12. Call Sue 
Ruben at 687-9291 for more details.
The Need, Patsy, Semi-Sweets, and Fla
vor Station will be performing on Tuesday 
at 7 pm at Stopbook and Listen on High
land Street. The show is for all ages. For 
more information, call 363-4426.
The Beehive will host a pre-Halloween 
show of gothic, industrial, and darkwave 
music. On Monday, Randolphs Grin from 
Detroit will be there along with Apocalypse 
Theater from San Francisco and locals Jack
photo courtesy of Columbia Pictures
of Shadows. The all-ages show is at 8 pm. 
For more information, call 687-7961.
The Molecules, a San Francisco noisepunk band, will play an 8 pm, all-ages 
show at the Oakland Beehive on Monday, 
November 3. Opening the show will be The 
Champs (featuring ex-member of Nation 
of Ulysses) and Regraped. Admission is $6. 
Call 687-7961 for more details.
Death in June, the legendary apocalyp
tic dark rockers from England, will play 
an 8 pm, all-ages show at Synod Hall in 
Oakland. Opening will be industrial mu
sic pioneer Boyd Rice, Irelands Strength 
Through Joy, and Australias Scorpion 
Wind. Tickets are $13 in advance (avail
able at Brave New World and Daves Mu
sic Mine), $17 at the door. .Call 422-8864 
or contact manny@dhp.com for details.
Robert Sutherland Lord will perform 
the second recital in his 1997-98 series in 
Heinz Memorial Chapel at the University 
of Pittsburgh on Sunday at 3 pm. The pro
gram will include music by Brewer, 
Thalben-Ball, and Franck. Admission is 
free. For more information, call the Music 
Department Concert Office at 624-4125.
Rubio String Quartet will give a concert 
of 20th century music in Frick Fine Arts 
Auditorium on November 4 at 8 pm. Mem
bers of the quartet have worked in differ
ent orchestras throughout Europe before 
forming the quartet. The program will in
clude works by Dmitri Shostakovich, 
Stephen Paulus, and Alfred Schnittke. For 
more information, call the Music Depart
ment Concert Office at 624-4125.
University of Pittsburgh Percussion 
Ensemble will give a concert with guest 
artists Christopher Leonard and Dale 
Speicher on November 5 at 8 pm in 
Bellefield Hall Auditorium. Admission is 
free. For more information, call the Music 
Department Concert Office at 624-4125.
Hilloween will take place on Friday. Join 
SDC for the Schlagmare haunted house 
in Hamerschlag House from 7-9 pm, fol
lowed by the Donner Dance Party in 
Donner Hall from 9-11 pm. This event is 
being sponsored by SDC and the Hill resi
dential staff.
SDC Day will be happening on Thursday 
in front of Doherty Hall. There will be give
aways, smiley cookies, surveys, and bal
loons, as well as a pumpkin and a vam
pire running around passing out candy, 
raffle prizes, and much more. For more in
formation, call Andy Sadhwani, SDC Pub
lic Relations, at x2-3003.
Student Dormitory Council is having its 
next meeting this Wednesday at 7:30 pm 
in the Connan Room in the UC. Partici
pating in SDC enables interaction with the 
administration on campus issues and plan
ning campus events. For more informa
tion, contact Andy Sadhwni, SDC Public 
Relations, at x2-3003.
Halloween Blood Drive, sponsored by 
SDC and Student Life, will take place on 
Friday in the Connan Room in the UC from
11 am until 4:45 pm. For more informa
tion, call Student Life at x8-2142.
Kaffeestunde, or German Coffee Hour, 
will take place on Tuesdays from 3-4:30 
pm in Skibo Coffeehouse. People who 
speak or are learning German are welcome 
to attend. Contact Professor Anne Green 
or the Department of Modern Languages 
at x8-5669 for more information.
Mesa Espaola, The Spanish Brown Bag 
and Conversation Hour, will take place ev
ery Tuesday from 11:30 am-12:30 pm in 
the first-floor eating area in the UC next 
to the pool. It is hosted by faculty mem
bers Zulema Zattoni and Bladi Ruiz. Ev
eryone is encouraged to come share Span
ish conversation as well as meet other 
Spanish students. Contact the Depart
ment of Modem Languages at x8-5669 for 
more information.
La Table Franaise. Come and join in 
French conversation every Monday after
noon from 5-6 pm in Skibo Coffeehouse. 
All those with an interest in and knowl
edge of French are welcome. For more in
formation, contact Professor Sylvie Rockmore or the Department of Modern Lan
guages at x8-5669.
Sweepstakes, also known as Buggy, will 
be holding fall freeroll practices each Sat
urday and Sunday morning through No
vember 16. Tech and Frew Streets, as well 
as the portion of Schenley Drive surround
ing Flagstaff Hill, will be closed from 6 to 
9 am on those mornings. Community 
members are asked to find alternate routes 
and parking around campus. Cars left in 
the metered areas at 6 am on those dates 
will be towed.
Wing-a-thon, taking place on November
4 at the Attic above LAGA, will be a com
petition between teams of five to eat as 
many buffalo wings as possible. Pledges 
are solicited based upon the number of 
wings the team eats, and the money will 
benefit the Childrens Hospital of Pitts
burgh. For more information or to sign up, 
contact Jason Katkoff at x2-3903.
Dance Marathon will feature teams of 
five dancing as long as they can on No
vember 15 in the UC Gym between noon 
and midnight. The event will be televised 
by Fox and there will be several games, 
contests, and prizes. Proceeds will ben
efit the Rehab Institute of the Childrens 
Miracle Network. For more information, 
contact Jason Katkoff at x2-3903.museums
La Dernire Bande, a play in French by 
Samuel Beckett, will be performed in Eddy 
Theater at Chatham College on Tuesday, 
November 4 at noon under the auspices of 
the Alliance Franaise of Pittsburgh. For 
tickets and more information, contact Pro
fessor Sylvie Rockmore at x8-4066 or the 
Alliance Franaise at 365-1129.
reading lies
Common Grounds Coffeehouse: Fall 
1997 poetry reading series will feature 
Noah Stetzer and Susan Jacobson on Tues
day, November 4. Open poetry will take 
place at 8 pm and scheduled readings at 
8:30 pm. For more information, call Com
mon Grounds Coffeehouse at 362-1190.
UC Art Galleiy is going to exhibit Lifes 
Dreams, a West-African Batik show by lo
cal artist Saihou Nije. The show will be on 
display through Friday. Also, every life a 
gospel by local artist Tom Waters will be 
on display from November 3 through No
vember 14. The exhibit features multime
dia performance artwork that deals with 
the connection and collision between sexu
ality and AIDS.
Trek of Tears is the newest exhibit on dis
play at the Hewlett Gallery. Featuring 
color photographs by Post-Gazette photog
rapher Martha Rial, the exhibit documents 
the ongoing migrations in Rwanda ai 
Burundi. The installation will be shown 
until Wednesday. For more information, 
contact Petra Fallaux at x8-3877.
