Rising Dorm Rates 
* Reach New Zenith
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
Careful Study Reveals Need For
Modernization and Replacement
Tech has decided, after careful study, that a modest 
but but general increase in residence hall rates is necessary 
effective September 1962, Dean Brown stated recently.
All food and housing services at Tech are operated on 
H a no-gain, no-loss basis, and the additional revenue resulting 
from the increase will allow Tech to maintain this tradition.
IBM Director 
Discusses Job 
Opportunities
All students and faculty inter
ested in knowledge of opportuni
ties in the field of data process
ing, are invited to attend a SWE 
meeting on Monday, February 26, 
1962, at 8:30 p.m. in the Wherret Lounge, Skibo.
Miss Rita McCabe
tor of Planning, Systems and Ap
plication Engineering, IBM Cor
porate Headquarters. Miss Mc
Cabe will speak on opportunities 
J for men and women in data pro? cessing.
Students from Engineering and 
Science, Margaret Morrison, and 
I Fine Arts, are encouraged to at
tend, since this field is open to 
any person with a bachelors de
gree. Miss McCabe herself has a 
Bachelors Degree in Psychology 
from Colby College, Waterville, 
Maine.
Miss McCabe joined IBM in 
L 1945 as a Systems Service RepreW sentative in the IBM office in 
Hartford; Connecticut where she 
assisted customers in the Hart
ford area in the installation of 
data processing equipment. From 
1954 to 1955, she was an instructor 
in the Department of Education 
ai the IBM school in Endicott, 
New York. In 1955, she became 
Manager of System Service, Data 
Processing Division Headquarters, 
White Plains, New York. At presm ent Miss McCabe is Director of 
Planning giving her responsibil
ity for women in systems and pro
gramming areas of IBM.
Organizations
All organizations must turn in 
reports by February 28.
? The new rise in Womens Dorm 
rates will make possible the mod
ernization of Morewood Gardens, 
and the replacement of furnish
ings. It will also help to eliminate 
recent operating deficits, and to 
meet the increased operating costs 
in Morewood Gardens. The 
changes in rates are as follows 
for the present Morewood Gar
dens, Towers A, B, C, and D: 
double room without bath, from 
$395 to $435; triple room without 
bath, from $395 to $435; suite with 
bath, from $407.50 to $445; single 
room without bath, from $407.50 
to $445; double room with bath, 
from $420 to $465; single room 
th bath, from $420 to $465. In 
the new addition to Morewood 
Gardens, the rates are as follows: 
double room without bath $435, 
single room without bath. $445. 
These rates include both room and 
per semester.
Mens Housing Rates 
The change in the rates for all 
students living in Undergraduate 
Mens Residence Halls are as fol
lows: single room without bath, 
from $170 to $200; double suite 
with bath from $175 to $205; 
double-suite without bath, from 
$160 to $195; double room with 
bath, from $145 to 190; triple suite 
with bath, from $145 to $190; and 
triple suite without bath, from 
$135 to $165. Most of the rooms in 
Donner and Hammerschlag Halls 
are double rooms without baths; 
their rise in rates is from $145 to 
$190. Also, the new rate for a 
single room with bath is $215.
The school is currently prepar
ing a program of accelerated 
maintenance and furniture re
placement which will begin this 
summer and, because of the mag
nitude of the task, will extend 
over several years. The program 
will enable the school to continue 
providing comfort and safety for 
the student.
Queen to Reign 
At Masked Ball
The Masked Ball, a Mardi 
Gras costume dance will be held 
in Skibo Ballroom, on Friday, 
March 2, 1962, under the auspices 
of the International Club. As is 
well-known, this time of year is a 
period of world-wide celebration: 
Fasching in Munich, Carnival in 
Rio de Janeiro, Mardi Gras in 
New Orleans, Cannes, and now 
Pittsburgh.
As the crowning event of the 
dance, the Queen of the Mardi 
Gras will be introduced to the 
assembled guests. She will be 
chosen as the woman most nearly 
personifying the ideals of Mardi 
Gras Queen from the names sub
mitted to the International Club 
by Feb. 25.
As a tribute to Her Majesty, the 
[continued on page 8]
Techites Among Demonstrators
Over twenty Tech students 
tiredly returned from Washing
ton last Sunday with blistered, 
aching feet as a result of their 
participation in the demonstra
tions of Student Action For Turn 
Toward Peace.
However, these students also 
returned with the firm conviction 
that they had participated in a 
worthwhile project aimed toward 
achieving a just peace and pre
serving democratic values:
Not all of the students who
traveled to Washington from 
Tech are known, but included in 
the group were Sally Harris, 
Alice Fry, Paul Parkinson, Claire 
Rosenfelt, Barla Handelman, Sue 
Levine, Liz Cohen, Ann Bayard, 
Graham Silsby Howie Schopman, 
Norman Goldblatt, Peggy Gilbert, 
Peter Nevard and Nina Frank
lin. The group included students 
from Fine Arts, MMCC and E&S. 
Over 120 students attended from 
the Pittsburgh area in general.
Students from California to
Maine began arriving in Wash
ington Friday, and by Saturday 
5000 to 8000 were marching in 
what has been variously estimat
ed at the biggest march since 
the integration pickets of a number 
of years ago or even the largest 
demonstration in twenty years in
cluding war-time.
The NY Times, commneting 
editorially on the demonstration, 
said that The students we worry 
about are not those who have 
[continued on page 71
Music Department Cameron Quartet Makes Debut
Chorus, Orchestra m /  .W7, ..
Present Concei t To Crowd Filling Wherrett Room
The student chorus and orches
tra of the department of music,
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE
VOLUME 54  NUMBER 16
OF TECHNOLOGY
v Wednesday, February 21, 1962
Students picket for peace in Washington
Washington Post Photo
Carnegie Tech, will present a con
cert at Carnegie Music Hall, Fri
day, February 23, at 8:30 p.m.
The chorus and orchestra, con
ducted by Roland Leich, will pre
sent three selections, The first, 
Ode to Death, op. 38, by Gustav 
Holst is based on the death 
carol passage from When Lilac 
Last in the Dooryard Bloomd, 
Walt Whitmans renowned dirge 
for Abraham Lincoln.
Cameron String: Quartet
The Cameron String Quartet | cello. The 
composed of students in Tech's
The second selection will be 
The Seven Joys of Mary, by 
Henry S. Humphreys, the music 
editor of the Cincinnati Enquirer. 
Soloists will be Brenda Mastv, 
mezo-soprano, and James Valdesalice, tenor.
Lastly, Johannes Brahms mas
terpiece of choral music, A Ger
man Requiem, will be presented. 
Brahms composed this piece as a 
musical memorial to Robert 
Schumann and to his own mother. 
Juanita Waller, soprano, and 
Charles Gillespie, baritone, will 
solo.
The program is open to the 
public and there is no admission 
charge.
department of music, made its 
debut in a program of chamber 
music last Sunday, in the Wherrett Room of Skibo.
The quartet, organized in Octo
ber of 1961, is composed of Paul 
Ross, first violin; Laraine Sha
piro, second violin; James Diehl, 
viola; and Robert Silverman,
group was formed in 
honor of Professor Goesta Andreasson of the music faculty at 
! Tech. Professor Andreasson playj ed with the Busch Quartet as a 
second violinist. This quartet was 
among the most cherished and 
highly esteemed string quartets in 
the 20th century. Professor Eu
gene Eicher, cellist and also a 
faculty member at Tech, serves a* 
consultant.

---------------------------------------------------

Page ?  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 81, 1962
MARK FIVARS
AND HIS ORCHESTRA
Subtle Sounds for 
Swingin' People
JA 1-8384
Congress Discusses Schedule; 
Plans Leadership Conference
A new schedule plan, introduc
ed by Mark Appelbaum, was ac
tively discussed at the February 
14 meeting of Student Congress. 
Although no action was taken, 
Mark has suggested that classes 
begin one week earlier in the fall 
thus moving all first semester 
events up one week. This would 
mean that finals would begin only 
a week and a half after Christmas 
vacation. At mid-semester of sec
ond semester there would be a 
one week vacation, and for Easter, 
one day. Second semester finals 
would begin on a Monday instead 
of on a Wednesday.
Congress decided to co-sponsor 
a leadership conference with the 
Office of Religious Affairs. Such 
a conference is designed to en
courage leadership in campus af
fairs. Participation will be the 
keynote with the emphasis on 
role-playing, demonstrations, and 
discussion. The meeting will be 
held on Thursday from 6:30 to 
8:15 from March 1 to April 15, 
with a limit of 24 people.
Doc Fetcho reported that the 
White Book committee is at work 
on the new edition of the White 
Book. It was announced that new 
parking permits are needed for 
most of the lots, that the cheer
leaders have been recognized as a 
club for a one year probationary 
period, and that the International 
Club has received permission to 
charge 75 cents admission for its 
Mardi Gras dance.
It was recommended that in
structors desist from giving fresh
men common chemistry and phys
ics exams at 7:30 in the morning 
since both commuters and dorm 
residents were having trouble 
making it to class at such an early 
hour.
Continental Oil 
Announces
Mark Applebaum suggested that 
further study be made of the fiveday class week since officially we 
are still on a six-day week.
The next Student Congress 
meeting will be held Wednesday, 
February 28. at 4:30 in the Wherrett Lounge of Skibo.
Debate Team Ninth 
Of Thirty-Five
The record of six wins and four 
loses placed the Tech Debate 
Team ninth among the thirty-five 
colleges gathered at the Kings 
College Debate Tournament. Held 
at Wilkes-Barre, this is one of 
the largest and most difficult of 
college debate tournaments. Tech 
defeated Villanova, Rosemont, 
Duquesne, Harper, Braddock, and 
Dartmouth, which was the third 
place winner. Augustina College 
won. Alan Topol, the President of 
the Debate Club, placed as the 
ninth speaker of the tournament.
Tech will be the site of two de
bate tournaments in . the near fu
ture, March 2 and 3, and April 
5 and 6, that being the State 
tournament.
BULLETIN BOARD
Emerson Club
How Responsible Are Parents?
Who deserves the credit, and 
the blame for what w'e are? Can 
we palm it all off on dear old 
Mom and Dad? Emerson Club will 
ask such questions beginning 
about 6:45 on February 25. Mr. 
and Mrs. J. H. Taylor, parents, 
will defend the older generation.
Emerson Club meets for dinner 
($0.75) at 5:30 in the Schweitzer 
room of the Unitarian Church, 
Ellsworth and Morewood Avenues. 
The free program begins about 
6:45.
Freshman Camp
Persons wishing to apply for 
positions as Freshmen Camp coun
selors may obtain applications in 
103 Skibo. Applications must be 
returned by next Wednesday, 
February 28.
Peace Discussion
Of course Im concerned, 
but . .
Meeting  Sunday, February 
25, 7:30, Skibo room 45
Program  Discussion and 
evaluation of the Washington 
demonstration, Turn Toward 
Peace, (over 5,000 students from 
colleges across the country parti
cipated) and suggestions for fu
ture paths of action.
All ideas welcomed. Sponsored 
by Student Peace Union 
Home Ec Club 
The monthly meeting of the 
Home Economics Club will be 
held today at 3:30 p.m. in Mary 
Breed Hall. Everyone is invited 
to this meeting at which time, Dr. 
Erwin R. Steinberg, Dean of Mar
garet Morrison Cctrnegie College 
will speak about the Value of the 
Effective Program in the College 
Girls Curriculum.
Pittsburgh Plate 
Glass Company
Chemical Division
(Successor to 
COLUMBIA-SOUTHERN 
CHEMICAL CORPORATION
Interview Date:
Friday, March 9
Opportunities available in six plants: 
Barberton, O., New Martinsville, W, 
Va., Lake Charles, La., Corpus Christi, 
Tex., Bartlett, Calif., and Beauharnois, 
Quebec, Canada.
Producers of heavy industrial chemi
cals: Soda ash, chlorine, caustic soda, 
anhydrous ammonia, titanium tetra
chloride, and other chlorinated prod
ucts.
Research, analytical, plant problems, 
supervision, design maintenance, plant 
layout, and standard procedure op-'f 
portunities open for men in these
categories:
BS, MS, PhD Chemists; BS. MS 
Chemical Engineers: BS, MS Electri
cal and Mechanical Engineers; BS In
dustrial Engineers.
TONY'S BARBER SHOP
SPECIALIZING IN ALL KINDS Or HAIRCUTS
NO WAITING EXPERT BARBERS
ISA Booqeet St. <N*r Corner Forbec and Bouquet)
New Hours: 8 A.M. to 8 P.M. Daily MU. 2-9969 < i
CAR NREE CRERGAISR TIUGOSFRH 
HOELCRY MIR NINKIVHBF
Although he s been with Bell of Pennsylvania only six 
months, Joe Bobrowski is already making an important 
contribution at the Companys Data Processing Center 
in Harrisburg. Hes perfecting a mechanized way to 
speed up payment of monthly invoices from 1700 suppliers 
who sell to his company. Joe's excellent idea could make
an already efficient payment process even more efficient!
Joe Bobrowski of the Bell Telephone Company of 
Pennsylvania, and other young men like him in Bell Tele
phone Companies throughout the country, help bring the 
finest communications service in the world to the homes 
and businesses of a growing America.
NREE CRERGAISR TIUGOSFRH
Chemistry Contest
The opening of the 1962 Con
test on Colloid and Surface 
Chemistry among college under
graduates has been announced by 
the University of Southern Cali
fornia. The contest is sponsored 
by the continental Oil Company 
of Houston, Texas, and Ponca 
City, Okalhoma. The contest is 
now in its sixth year and stu
dents at all accredited colleges 
and universities of the United 
States and Canada are eligible if 
they are regular undergraduates 
on April 1, 1962.
In past years winners have 
come from all parts of both 
countries and from large univer
sities as well as small colleges. 
The contestants may enter either 
a report on a research project 
conducted by themselves or an 
essay on the subject, The Con
tribution of Floyd E. Bartell to 
Colloid and Surface Chemistry. 
Dr. Bartell, who died in I960, 
was on the University of Mich
igan faculty many years. The 
best essay and the best report 
will each receive prizes of $500 
and the second best $200 each 
under contest regulations. Hon
orable mention prizes of $50 each 
are also provided.
The deadline for submitting en
tries is July 2, 1962. Entry blanks 
and also a bibliography of the 
late Professor Bartells publica
tions may be obtained immedi
ately by writing to Professor K. 
J. Mysels, Chemistry Department, 
University of Southern California, 
Los Angeles 7, California. The 
prizes will be awarded by a panel 
of anonymous judges and will be 
distributed September 1, 1962.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 21, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page 3
SIC FLICS
..........._______
IGARETTES
HGOTRo UFHHFER u MRC GKIMRTCH 
OC qILeEOH
have created outstanding 
career opportunities for
HTFRSCFHCH t)f RSeFSRRKH
B.S. degrees or better
Assignments include the following areas:
Servo-Mechanisms  relating to Heat Transferrelating to misall types of control problems sile and space vehicle structures
Electronic Systems-relating to Structures relating to cyclic
all types of guidance, detection, loads, temperature effects, and the
control and communications investigation of new materials,
Propulsion  relating to fluidmethods, products, etc.
mechanics, thermodynamics, Aerodynamicsrelating to wind
dynamics, internal aerodynamics tunnei research, stability and
Environmental  relating to air control
oxygen systems reSSUriZatin d Solid State Physic.-relating to,, _ i  f metal surfaces and fatigueHuman Factors - analysis of
environment affecting pilot and Space vehicle and weapon
space crews, design of cockpit consystem studies of all types,
soles, instrument panels and pilot involving a vast range of scientific
equipment and engineering skills
Get full information at
FSqFlFqLOE IS TOUGLH FSCRKlFRVH
with a Douglas representative
MARCH 1, 2
We urge you to make an appointment through the Carnegie Tech Placement 
Office. If you cannot, please write to
qILeEOH OFKTKOiC TIUGOSno FSTr
3000 Ocean Park Blvd., Santa Monica, California
An equal opportunity employer
1 HOUR DRY (LEANING
2 HOUR SHIRT LAUNDRY 
FLUFF DRY LAUNDRY
For Service and Quality at 
Reasonable Prices Visit:
Campus Cleaners
(One Block From Morewood Ave.) 
Open Daily From 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.
>' Technical Writers Create Text
Gale Newcomb, Patti Plate, 
Jean Couchman, Nancy Ferree, 
and other student Technical 
Writers at Tech have recently be
come involved in the preparation 
of a manual concernng the Tech
nical Writing profession.
The Pittsburgh chapter of the 
Society of Technical Writers and 
Publishers, which meets monthly 
$ in Skibo, has long realized the 
need of a reference manual, deal
ing with the various aspects of 
their profession, that would act 
as a procedure guide.
In November they began prep
aration of a series of monographs 
dealing with such problems as: 
Training of Technical Writers, 
Printing Production and Office 
Equipment, Reports and Techni
cal Correspondence, Manuals, and 
Contract and Contract Adminis
tration. Dean Steinberg and pro
fessional Technical Writers were 
chosen chairmen of various mono
graph committees, but student 
Technical Writers were invited to 
help write the monographs.
This, however, is just one way
in which Student Technical Writ
ers were allowed to aid in the 
preparation of the manual. On 
February 8, 1962, the tentative 
outline of the first monograph, 
dealing with the Training of Tech
nical Writers, was presented to 
the society by Dean Steinberg. 
Guests were sophomore, junior, 
and senior Technical Writers who 
were invited to take part in the 
discussion and criticism of the 
outline.
Summer Employment Directory Available
Hewlett Gallery 
Opens New Show
Twenty-six paintings by mem
bers of the University of Illinois 
Art Department faculty are now 
being exhibited at the Hewlett 
Gallery in The Fine Arts build
ing. The paintings, done in oil, 
gouache, lequer, oil-casein, en
caustic and acrylac-latex poly
mer,re presents the work of 
twenty-six artists. The show will 
continue until March 6.
A directory which lists summer 
jobs for college students through
out the United States is now avail
able.
The SUMMER EMPLOYMENT 
DIRECTORY gives the names and 
addresses of 1,367 organizations 
which want to employ college 
students. It also gives the posi
tions open, salary, and suggestions 
on how to make application  a 
sample letter of application and a 
personal data sheet.
There .re all types of summer 
camp jobs listed in every state;
there are jobs at resorts in the 
New England States, the North
eastern States, the Great Lakes 
area, and the Western States. Col
lege students are needed in: 20 
national parks and national monu
ments, 34 ranches in the West 
and New York State, summer 
theatres in 15 states, business and 
industry at scattered locations, 
and various departments of the 
government. In addition to these 
popular summer employers, many 
other organizations list their needs 
for summer help.
Students wishing summer work 
make application to the employ
ers listed in the directory. Em
ployers are included at their own 
request, and they invite applica
tions from oollege students.
Students who wish to have a 
SUMMER EMPLOYMENT DI
RECTORY for their own use may 
obtain a copy by sending $3.00 to 
the publisher: National Directory 
Service, Dept. C. Box 32065, Cin
cinnati 32, Ohio, or may check in 
the library and employment office 
for a reference copy.
Subt lteo ndss ftt rwi owng'
[GEN*
mss  mr not huh) iHi wo  m i ROZSA
70mm SUPR TECHNIRAMA
wnltenbyl HLUI\ll) 111. I l\T\l1f\and 11IIUI IUI\Unil d<recte<l by H1111IUMI IVinilll TECHNICOLOR
C ARNEGI lstuAdtu estnEadftu c cC nGRs yfIN estnEadftu ciir b, kkowg pho,h,
ORDER RESERVED SEATS NOW!
SCHEDULE OF PRICES ANO 
PERFORMANCES
EVENINQS: 1:30 P.M.MATINEES: Z P.M. 
EVENINGS (Sun. thru Thurs.) Orch. & 
Loge. M.50 Bale. $1.7SEVENINGS (Fri., Sat. 
* Holidays) Orch. & Loge $2.75 Bale. $2.00 
MATINEES (Wednesday) Orch. & Loge $2.00 
Bale. $1.50MATINEES (Sat., Sun. & Holidays) 
Orch. & Loge $2.30 Bale. $1.75.
For Theatre Parties and Groups Only, 
Call ATIantic 1-9511 
Exclusive 
Reserved Seat Engagement I
FULTON THEATRE
PpP Sixth St.. Pgh. **, Pa., AT. PV%356
PLEASE SEND________TICKETS AT------------------
EACH TOTAL $----------------------
CHECK ONE ORCH. ? LOGE ? BALCONY ?
DATE_______________MAT. ? EVE. ?
ALTERNATE DATES---------------------------------------------
I 
I 
I 
I
I NAMEADDRESSCITY_____-ZONE
I ENCLOSE CHECK OR MONEY ORDER PAYABLE 
TO FULTON THEATRE 
' Enclose a Stamped Self-addressed Envelope 
(No Cash Of Stamps)
FULTON THEATRE
101 Sixth Street  ATIantic 1-435
EPTED NOW!
The
greatest 
romance 
and adventure 
in a thousand 
years!
PRESENTS
ANOIA LORE
: ; ! , KIlN G
21 GREAT TOBACCOS MAKE 20 WONDERFUL SMOKES!
AGED MILD, BLENDED MILD - NOT FILTERED MILD -THEY SATISFY

---------------------------------------------------

rage 4  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 21, 1962
Editorial
Congress Needs Redefinition
It seems to be generally accepted on cam
pus that there is a declining interest in stu
dent activities. Yet, looking into this situa
tion, it appears that a certain group of ac
tivities which could be called Specialized 
or special interest groups are actually flour
ishing, with high student interest and par
ticipation, while others, the old standbys of 
student activities, such as student govern
ment or fraternities, are experiencing a 
crisis.
Tech Not Alone
This situation is not confined to the Tech 
campus alone. The TARTAN office has re
ceived many letters from other campuses 
faced with the same phenomenon. The stu
dent body of Columbia University recently 
voted its student government out of exist
ence and Pitt barely escaped the same thing 
last week. But, although Pitt students voted 
to retain their government by only a small 
margin, they did vote overwhelmingly for 
reorganization.
This occurance, right down the street 
from us, seems to have significance for Car
negie Tech. Our own Student Congress is 
plagued with lack of enthusiasm and the 
inability to really accomplish anything of 
significance. Last weeks meeting of Congress 
which is reported in this weeks Tartan 
serves as an example of this. The only really
significant action taken seems to be the de
cision to sponsor a leadership conference! In 
other areas congress limits itself to only 
discussion and recommendation, and the rec
ommendations are made in areas in which 
congress has little or no authorityclasses 
and the school schedule.
An earlier very important meeting of 
Congress was concerned with such subjects 
as possible termination of the fall weekend 
holiday and the mid-semester holidajr, the 
five day class policy, and cigarette smoking 
in the classrooms!
It is possible that this seeming inability 
to accomplish anything of significance has 
much to do with a lack of enthusiasm. Per
haps the next meeting of congress could 
evaluate its own purpose and functions on 
campus and the value of these.
Almost Comic
Admittedly, the attempt to arouse interest 
and awareness of Congress and its activity 
has been noteworthy this year, but increased 
awarenes of the activity has not brought in
creased awareness of the value but rather 
a somewhat comical picture of a congress 
which is trying to appear effective through 
discussion in areas which most students 
laughingly realize are beyond the jurisdic
tion or even influence of Student Congress.
Looking Forward
Republican Dilemna
By Alan J. Topol
Last week a host of Republican orators on Lincolns Birthday 
attempted to define their partys current position. After all of the 
fanfare has been overcome, the conclusion that seems to predomi
nate is that the present condition of the Republican Party threatens 
to render it politically ineffective boh in the present and for some 
time to come.
A Bust
The era of New-Republicanism ushered in by General Eisen
hower has been a bust. Any partys political strength is measured 
by the offices it holds. Yet the Republicans lost control of the Con
gress in 1954 and have faced very large Democratic majorities in 
both the Senate and House since that time. With President Ken
nedys victory in 1960, both executive and legislative authority are 
firmly in Democratic hands.
Yet it is also important to understand the forees producing 
this Republican decline in popular support for herein lies my con
clusion that the situation will probably get much worse before it 
gets better.
Both political Parties attempt to appeal to nearly all segments 
of American thought and interest. Thus Senator Javits (Rep. N.Y.) 
is much more Liberal than Senator Byrd (Dem. Va.), while Sen. 
Clark (Dem. Pa.) is certainly more Liberal than Sen. Goldwater 
(Rep. Ariz.). Since both Parties appeal to nearly all groups and since
[continued on page 5]
Blood Drive 
Disappointing 
In Quantity
On the afternoon ol Saturday 
the seventeenth a heartbreaking 
situation occurred. The Council of 
Fraternity Presidents sponsored a 
blood drive for a victim of hemophelia who is the brother of a 
student here at Tech. The expect
ed turnout for this blood drive 
v. as two hundred students of 
which an estimated one hundred 
and fifty would have been eligible 
to give blood. Approximately 
thirty five pints of blood were 
given.
Not Enough
This token amount given is not 
enough. Not only that, in order 
to cover the cost of the personnel 
from the blood bank at least one 
hundred pints of blood were nec
essary. The deficiency will have 
to be made up by the blood bank.
After the publicity given to this 
drive through the newspapers and 
radio, it is not only heartbreak
ing because of the situation but 
it is indeed embairassing to the 
students of Carnegie Tech.
For those who still want to give 
blood for this unfortunate victim 
of hemopl.elia it is still possible. 
There is a blood bank at 3601 
Fifth Avenue in Oakland. If any 
do decide to donate blood, please 
specify that it is for Arnold Littman.
CURTAIN GOING UP!
by Joey
AN OSCAR WINNER!
Competing for the Oscars this year will obviously be 
WEST SIDE STORY which is, in my opinion, the finest 
Hollywood-made musical! Robert Wise and Jerome Robbins 
have directed a fine young cast with taste and a fantastic 
sense of color and movement so that the tragic story of teen
agers in New York City is an exciting and compelling adven
ture, in many instances surpassing the Broadway show upon 
which it was based.
Natalie Wood is cast as the Puerto Rican Maria who has 
been brought to America by her brother, Bernard (George 
Chakiris). At her first dance she meets an American boy 
Tony (Richard Beymer); they fall in love and three deaths 
come about because of the inability of the Americans and 
Puerto Ricans to live together peacefully.
The music by Leonard Bernstein and lyrics by Stephen 
Sondheim still hold their sting and beauty as they did on the 
stage. Several of the songs have been rearranged because of 
the absence of an intermission. I FEEL PRETTY is situated 
in a dress shop instead of Marias bedroom and the comic 
GEE OFFICER KRUPKE trades places with the pulsing 
rhythms of COOL.
Miss Wood turns in a fine, sensitive performance as the 
bewildered Maria, torn between her love for Tony and her 
duty to her brother and family. Bej^mer perhaps is not 
strong enough as Tony and his dubbed singing voice lacks 
any sense of dramatics. Russ Tamblyn looks too young to 
play Riff (the leader of the American Jets) but dances mag
nificently. The outstanding players are Chakiris and Rita 
Moreno as his girlfriend, Anita. They dance superbly through 
to of the films finest numbers: THE DANCE AT THE GYM 
and AMERICA. They are both handsome actors who have 
a definite feeling for musical comedies and turn in com
pelling performances as the scapegoat Puerto Ricans.
Robbins choreography and the execution of it by the 
entire cast far surpasses that of the Broadway show.
Ernest Lehmans adaptation of Arthur Laurents orig
inal lacks the foul language which is censored for films but 
still has much merit.
The main criticism against WEST SIDE STORY as a 
film must be that its directors got carried away with their 
color techniques; their fade-ins; and dissolves. One does not 
wish to see a dress shop turn into a church as the lovers sing 
their vows; Tony need not be as tall as the buildings on 45th 
Street. On the stage, all these things were imagined by the 
audience and consequently the production was infinitely more 
subtle and, for my money, infinitely better.
^CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
but if youre a student, its SKY-BO!
Readers Write
Policy Statement
Editors Note:
The Carnegie TARTAN wel
comes letters from readers pre
senting their views and news. 
All letters must be signed with 
the name and address of the 
writer, but a name may be with
held at the writers request. If 
possible, letters should be type
written and should be as brief as 
possible. All letters are subject 
to condensation and editing. Let
ters containing obvious misstate
ments or lacking in good taste 
will not be printed. Letters must 
reach the TARTAN Office by 
2:00 p.m. Sunday to be included 
in the folloiving Wednesday's 
paper.
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office 
phone, MU. 2-4557; Executive Editor, MU. 1-6550; Business Manager,
MU. 1-2990 and MU. 2-9076; Advertising Manager, MU. 3-0460. Pub
lished weekly during the school year except holidays and examination 
periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pgh. 13.
Second Class Postage Paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Jnc.
Annual Subscription Rate: $2.00
Editor-in-Chief..............................Sally Ganong Farrell
Executive Editor ............................................Allan Kullen
Associate Editor ..............................Martin Ackermann
Business Manager .........................Phil Chau
Advertising Manager.....................Phil Chau
News Editor .............................................Elaine Grumer
Features Editor ............................................. Jan Geisler
Sports Editor .........................................Steve Rothenberg
Layout Editor ..................................................Fritz Klinke
Copy Editor ......................................................Carol llosken
Secretarial Editor.........................................Pattie Michael
Circulation Editor .........................................Anne Moser
Photography Editor ..................................Gerald Skalka
Assistant News Editor ...................................Colin Jones
N'ews staff: Mike Nelson. Sandy Klein, Doris Bell. B. J. Zimmewicz, Mark Appelbaum Maiy Ferguson, Jay F.llen Lapidus, Paul Carnahan, Joyce Holy. Kris Kelman,
Marty Mocre. Margie Park, Fay Landau. Gladys Stalinsky
reatures Staff: Margie Park. Marney Gilboy, Betsy Shepler. Sondra Perellis, Marlene 
Witman, Sandy Lancaster, Jan Engleman, Andrea Nether. Marion Mulligan, Mary 
Dunning. Karer Smith Irene Giandberg. Cathy ODea.
Business and Advertising Staff: Anne Moser. Phil Chau, Charles HoFook, Lorry 
GafTin, Bill Froelich, Ellie Wiseman, Allan Pollock. Jane Klein, Miron Straff. 
Circulation Staff; Mike Greenav alt. George Kahl. Ginny Uliss.
Secretarial Staff: Mary Breilenstein B. J. Zimmewicz. Miriam Gillespie. Pat Boggs 
Copy Staff: Margie Park Pat Michael. Lynn Pasternak, Gjile Newcomb, Georgia
White. Judy Denberg. Miriam Gillespie. Barry Shane.
Circulation staff: Mike Greenawalt. George Kail. Ginny Uliss 
Layout Staff': Richard Straus, Dale Chcdnrow. Allan Pollack
I
')}
$
I
*9
I

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday. February 31, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Fa se 3
OTCFlOCRq TAOKTIOE 
K, INNER FILTER
PURE WHITE 
PUTER FILTER
^Weak Points Hurt Republicans
[continued, from page 4 j
the Republicans have a stronger financial backing, the question of 
why the Republicans are failing is a reasonable one.
First, the dissident elements within the Republican Party are 
practically irreconciliable. The gulf between the Liberals (led by 
Javits, Keating, Case and others in the Senate), and the Convervatives (led by Goldwater and Tower) is so large that the party can
not provide a unified program so essential to the Party out of
* power.
Second, the party leadership has fallen completely in the hands 
of Old Guard Republicans who fail to achieve this necessary 
unity. The Republican leaders in the Congress, Senator Dirkson 
(111.) and Rep. Halleck (Ind.), seem to lack the party control which 
the Democrats formerly attained under Vice-President Johnson, 
when he was Senate Majority Leader, and the late Speaker Ray
burn. Richard Nixon seems engrossed in his political struggle in 
California and thus is removed from the Washington scene.
Third, the Republican program is largely negativistic. I could 
^ for example list many things like the Presidents proposal for a 
Department of Urban Affairs to which the Republicans are op
posed; but very few which they favor.
No Popular Image
Finally the Republicans fail to present a strong popular image 
to the American voter If in fact any image does result from this 
discord, it is the image of the Republican Party manifested by the 
Ev and Charlie Show a television conference by Senator Dirkson 
and Rep. Halleck currently in its second season in Washington 
and not at the demand of many Republicans in Congress. Second 
it is the image of a party whose leadership in Congress is almost 
^ completely rural in representation at a time when the city is un
questionably the dominating force in the United States. Finally it 
is the image of a party which Senator Goldwater has begun to 
more and more to strongly represent. Republican National Committee 
Chairman Miller has termed Gouldwater as the leading Repub
lican candidate. However, Senator Goldwaters ultra-conservatism 
would prevent the Republicans from making an appeal to the great 
center block of American voters.
Until the problems of unity, leadership, a positive program, 
and a popular image are achieved continued Republican failure 
seems inevitable.
Patterns Call Writers, Artists
PATTERNS is accepting work in two areas:
1. A general category covering work on any and all 
subjects.
2. A Hill category drawing from work stimulated by 
the Hill District.
For those people interested in finding more informa: 
tion on the Hill, the PATTERNS staff extends an ! 
invitation to come to their meetings held on Sunday j 
evenings at 7:00 p.m. in room 36, Skibo.
ENTRY RULES FOR SUBMITTING MATERIAL
The deadline for all work is the first week of March.
1. All students of Carnegie Tech, graduate and undergrad
uate, may submit art work and literature to PAT
TERNS '
2. All work will be acknowledged whether or not it is 
chosen for publication.
3. SPECIFICATIONS FOR ART WORK:
Photography, architecture, prints, designs, photographs 
of sculpture, architecture and stage design may be sub
mitted.
4. SPECIFICATIONS FOR LITERATURE:
Essays, poetry, short stories, vignettes, dialogues and 
fables may be submitted.
5. The above categories are not restrictive. Anything apro
pos to the magazine will be considered.
6. Submit a carbon copy of literary material as all conj 
tributions become the property of PATTERNS and can
not be returned.
7. Send material to: PATTERNS
CAMPUS MAIL 
BOX 402
PATTERNS WILL BE PUBLISHED IN THE SPRING,
AUTOMOBILE 
FOR SALE
1962 FIAT 1200 ROADSTER
Mint condition, red with white 
wall tires, radio and all equip
ment  very few miles. Owner 
must sell  trade acceptable. 
Can be seen in Oakland.
Phone: MA. 1-4905  Daytime 
MU. 2-1220  Night
For Quality 
and Selection
See Our Display of 
Domestic and Imported 
Pipes and Pipe Tobaccos
Briar Bowl
3725 Forbes Ave. 
Oakland Pgh., Pa.
^r4r *r ^ o' r v *- f fj
LIBERAL ARTS SENIORS
EARN 
WHILE YOU 
INTERN AS 
A FUTURE 
TEACHER
If you are graduating in the arts or 
sciences, you have what American 
schools need mosta rich background 
for sound teaching. With 155,000 class
room posts opening each year, you r 
in demand as a potential member of cn* 
of the most rewarding of profession*.
To secure your abilities for the nation *1 
children, Teaching Internships are 
ottered at the University of Pittsburgh 
with Ford Foundation support. They 
enable you to earn while you 
prepare as a teacher.
If you qualify, youll teach half time 
under expert guidance, experiment with 
the newest instructional techniques, 
earn your M.Ed. degree in 13 montlij, 
and receive a minimum Si,000 salary 
for your internship teaching.
Teaching gives you all the pleasures that 
derive from rapport with childrentho 
enlarging of their universe, the mutual 
triumphs of each step mastered. Learn 
how you can put your liberal arts degre 
to work in the cultivation of young 
minds. Write for information today.
Please tend me information 
about the Internship Program.
UNIVERSITY
PITTSBURGH
S
Name
Addre<.$
Graduation date Dcgie
Apply before Mar. 1; program begins Jun? 4,
Director of Graduate Studie*
School of Education, *717 CL 
University of Pitttlmrgh 
Pittsburgh 13, Pennsylvania
"Tareyton's Dual Filter in duas partes divisa est!'
says veteran coach Kma1D1( (Uncle) Remus. We have a 
saying over at the Coliseum -Tareyton separates the gladia
tors from the gladioli. Its a real magnus smoke. Take it 
from me, Tkreyton delivers de gustibus and the Dual Filter 
does it!
DUAL FILTER
ubtleond
SC wr muidlt Mit mi O A, r.

---------------------------------------------------

Paire   THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 21, 1962
Constitution 
Committee Plavs/Important Role
The Constitution Committee of 
Student Congress was formed to 
continually study the constitution 
of Techs student government, to 
keep it up-to-date and practical.
The constitution itself defines 
the various branches of student 
government and outlines their 
duties and powers. All students 
and student organizations are 
subordinate to this student gov
ernment which the constitution 
defines. Such an important and 
powerful document must be care
fully studied and revised to make 
sure that the student government 
works for the student body and 
not against it.
The Constitution Committee is 
Congress method of accomplish
ing this. Each year its members 
investigate the constitution for 
clarity and practicability and re
commend changes to Congress 
where necessary. Occasionally a 
major chance in Student Govern
ment is recommended and insti
tuted, such as the new court sys
tem, which was established two 
years ago.
One of the duties of this years 
committee is to study this court 
system, now that it has been in 
effect for a year, and revise the 
provisions which have been found 
to be impractical. Present mem
bers of this years committee in
clude Mark Appelbaum, Ralph 
DeBussma.i, Marilyn Miller, John 
Mowry, Paul Pheneger, and the j 
chairman, Jane Scott.
Anyone interested in working 
with this committee will be wel
come. Various opinions and views 
are needed.
This is the first of a series of 
articles concerning Student Con
gress aimed at combating two 
long-standing problems, lack of 
knowledge and lack of interest in 
Congress. One cannot help feel
ing that the latter (interest) is 
a direct result of the former 
(knowledge). Therefore these 
articles will deal primarily with 
facts about Student Congress, its 
committees, and their functions 
and responsibilities.
Political Internship Available 
With Many Prominent Congressmen
The summer internship program 
of the Pennsylvania Center of 
Education in Politics is open to 
all present college undergraduates.
Interning students will be as
signed to their own political party 
and will be paid $60 per week. 
The session will begin June 11 or 
soon thereafter and will end 
August 8.
Senators Hugh Scott and Jos
eph S. Clark and 17 other Penn
sylvania Congressmen have ex
pressed interest in the summer 
internship program, said Dr. Sid
ney Wise, PCEP director.
In addition, the following Con
gressmen have indicated that they 
wish to participate: Republican
Congressmen Willard S. Curtin, 
Paul B. Daugue, William Scran
ton, Richard Schweiker, John 
Kunkel, Herman Schneebeli, J. 
Irving Whalley, George A. Goodling, John P. Saylor, Carroll 
Kearns, James Fulton and Robert 
J. Corbett and Democratic Con
gressmen Herman Toll, George 
Rhodes, Frank M. Clark, William 
S. Moorhead and Elmer Holland.
The PCEP, formerly the Citiz
enship Clearing House, is current
ly accepting applications for this 
years internships in the Wash
ington, D.C. offices of these Con
gressmen.
Dr. Wise announced that arranements have also been made 
with the Democi'atic and Repub
lican State Committees for sum
mer internships in Harrisburg. He 
also said that internships could 
be established at the county level.
All three types of internships 
are open to students not gradu
ating in June, 1962. Those gradu
ating in June, 1962 may apply for 
the Washington and Harrisburg 
internships only.
Applications and additional in
formation may be obtained from 
Professor Roy Curry. Applications 
must be completed and returned 
by March 15, 1962.
MANCHESTER GUARDIAN 
Incontestably a remarkable 
film...haunting, rare and 
beautiful...soond track 
which most be one 
of the best in the 
history of the 
cinema.
AVmTW
(TH ADVENTUtt)
HAOqnH2qR CAROCKR
5518 Walnut St. Mu. 2-1901
Junior Year 
in
New York
An unusual one-year 
college program.
Writo for 
brochure to:
iJvftior Yor Progro 
New York Univ**ify 
How York 3, N. Y,
EXCITING, PROFITABLE 
CREDIT-ABLE SUMMERS
Go to an archeological dig in Great Britain
Earn college credit at the Sorbonne, Universities of Hawaii, 
Perugia, Madrid and others
Relax on the glamorous Riviera
Meet students at universities abroad
Interview government officials in other countries
Take riding, gliding and sailing courses in Germany or 
Switzerland
Study international law in Luxembourg
Take a job in Europe
Swim in the warm Caribbean
Many other uniusual possibilities
Complete Free of Charge Service
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD
Pittsburgh International Travel
JOANNE L. BLUM, President
(Former Assistant Director, Foreign Policy Association of Pgh.)
Call EXpress 1-1040
CHEMICAL GRADUATES
Qtsef, e mtddimVfdztd, ddvtrfdfdtd cbtmdces wrgeod
zetdwo wfftrf wppwrtiodtr eod rtfpwofdbdsdtr tw 
qiesdfdtd mto et ess dtgrtt stvtsf do Cbtmdftrr eod 
Cbtmdces Eogdottrdogg
Qredodog tbrwigb wrdtotetdwo eod woVtbtVjwb 
effdgomtotf effdft otn mtmbtrf wf wir ttcbodces fteff 
tw edjift repddsr tw tbt ftdmisetdog nwrsd wf dodiftrdes 
cbtmdftrrg
Qdftdog wir mejwr prwdictfpwsrwsf, pwsrtfttr rtfdof, 
firfecteotf, ectdvettd cerbwof, pbermectitdcesf, tx
pswfdvtf wosr pertdessr doddcettf tbt verdttr wf wir 
dottrtftfg Empswrmtot df evedsebst do prwdict dtvtswp
mtot, prwctff dtvtswpmtot, prwdict rtftercb, prwdic
tdwo fiptrvdfdwo, qiesdtr cwotrws, eod wtbtr ertefg
Qdveoctmtot wo mtrdt, dottrtftdog prwjtctf, tidtdwo 
edd, mwdtro fecdsdtdtf, eod pseootd prwgremf wf ptr
fwoes dtvtswpmtot ess fidt tbt meo dottrtfttd do bdf 
fitirtg
E3tt rwir psectmtot wffdctr owng Mekt eo eppwdot
mtot tw ddfciff rwir certtr wppwrtiodtdtf ndtb our 
rtprtftotetdvt nbw ndss vdfdt rwir cempif wo
MARCH 14th. 1962
mTLAS
ATLAS CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES, in. 
a*> *! ttp&iirMti WILMINGTON 99, DELAWARE
<
SUMMER JOBS
sd EUROPE
WRITE TO: AMERICAN STUDENT INFORMATION SERVICE, 
22 AVE. DE LA LIBERTE 
GRAND DUCHY OF LUXEMBOURG
On CampuswithMaxShulman
{Author of Rally Round The Flag, Boys, The Many 
Loves of Dobie Gillis, etc.)
UNITED WE STAND
The entire aeademie world is agog over the success of the 
Associated Colleges PlanACP, for short. I mean, you go to 
any campus in the country these days and you will see students 
and faculty dancing on the green, blowing penny whistles, 
grabbing each other by the elbows and yelling, About that 
ACP, Charleylike wow!
And who can blame them? The ACP is a plan not only simply 
brilliant, but also brilliantly simple. All it is, is a loose regional 
federation of small colleges. Let's say, for example, that in a 
given region we have a group of small colleges, each with its 
own academic specialty. Small College No. 1, lets say, has a fine 
language department; Small College No. 2, lets say, has a fine 
science department; No. 3 has a fine music department; etc., etc.
Well sir, under the ACP these various colleges federate. A 
student in any one of the colleges can take courses in the spe
cialty of any of the other colleges andheres the beauty part! 
he will receive credit for the course at his home college. Thus 
he enjoys all the advantages of a big university without losing 
the comfy coziness of a small college!
Well sir, you can see what a good idea the ACP is. I respect
fully submit, however, that just because a thing is good is no 
reason not to try to make it better. Like, for instance, Marlboro 
Cigarettes. Marlboros were good from the very beginning, and 
people found out quickly and sales zoomed. But did the makers 
of Marlboro say, "Okay, weve got it made. Lets relax? 
Well sir, if thats what you think, you dont know the makers! 
They did not relax. They took their good Marlboros and kept 
improving them. They improved the filter, improved the blend, 
improved the pack. They researched and developed tirelessly, 
until today Marlboro is just about the most admirable cigarette 
you can put a match to. There are, in fact, some people who 
find Marlboros so admirable they cant bear to put a match to 
them. They just sit with a single Marlboro in hand and admire 
it for ten, twelve years on end. The makers of Marlboro are of 
course deeply touched by thisexcept for E. Rennie Sigafoos, 
the sales manager.
But I digress. The ACP, I say, is good but it can be better. 
Why should the plan be confined to small colleges? Why should 
it be confined to a limited region? Why not include all colleges 
and universities, big and small, wherever they are?
Lets start such a federation. Lets call it the "Bigger Asso
ciated Colleges To Encourage Richer Intellectual Activity 
BACTERIA, for short!
What a bright new world BACTERIA opens up. Take, for 
example, a typical college studentHunrath Sigafoos (son, 
incidentally, of the Marlboro sales manager). Hunrath, a bright 
lad, is currently majoring in burley at the University of Ken
tucky. Under the BACTERIA plan, Hunrath could stay at 
Kentucky, where he has made many friends, but at the same 
time broaden his vista by taking a course in constitutional law 
it Harvard, a course in physics at Caltech, a course in frostbite 
^t Minnesota and a course in poi at Hawaii!
I admit there are still a few bugs in BACTERIA. How, for 
' stance, could Hunrath attend a 9 oclock class at Harvard, 
, 10 oclock class at Hawaii, an 11 oclock class at Minnesota, 
nd still keep his lunch date at Kentucky? It would be idle to 
!eny that this is a tricky problem, but I have no doubt American 
ingenuity will carry the day. Always remember how they 
aughed at Edison and Fultonand particularly at Walter 
Clavicle who invented the collarbone.
C A A R NEGI GST ftbutawa
Three cheers for American ingenuity, which gave us the 
tCP, the collarbone and MGM... that* the Mighty Good 
Makinn you get in Marlboro, the filter cigarette with the unfilter ed taste. Settle back and enjoy one. You get a lot to like.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 21, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Tage 1
Peacemongers Invade Capital
&
[continued from page 3] 
sufficient depth of conviction to 
stand for something  even 
something with which we dis
agree  but those who do not 
care about anything.
The Washington marchers did 
have that depth of conviction, 
for the strongest impression re
turning Tech students bring back 
is that of the spirit in the pick
et lines. It was not a riotous col
lege group, but was a solemn, 
unified and orderly assemblage 
which illustrates to these students 
that the majority felt strongly 
about their reasons for march
ing.
In spite of the fact that the 
effectiveness of the demonstra
tions has been questioned, the 
Tech students are glad that they 
had the opportunity to do some
thing, that it is better tc do this 
than to do nothing! They also 
feel that they cant really know 
how much has been accomlished 
but at least they have made the 
nation aware of their feelings and 
suggestions.
Delegations
The students not only marched 
and picketed, but, also sent delegations to the Civil Defense De1 partment, the Department of De
fense, Kennedys Secretary, and 
to over 200 Congressmen. Sat
urday afternoon, after completing 
their marjh, they attended a rally 
at which they heard Norman 
Thomas, president of Turn To
ward Peace, Emil Mazey, Secre
tary treasurer of the United Auto 
Workers, and others.
The idea for the demonstration
# originated between Thanksgiving 
and New Years after a group of 
students fasted in a vigil in front 
of the White House. A Harvard 
Peace Action Group, Tocin, 
founded the first ad hoc Commit
tee for Washington Action, and 
in cooperation with Turn Toward 
Peace, a group of adult peace or
ganizations, the idea was spread 
through local student groups. 
Pittsburgh student? formed their
f ad hoc Committee with represenv tatives from each of the Pitts
burgh area schools, and the date 
for the national demonstrations 
was set before the US resumed 
nuclear testing.
Aims
The aims urged by the stu
dents, as stated in one of the hand 
bills which they circulated in 
Washington, are the following:
1. We urge the government of 
f the US to announce that it will
* not resume atmospheric testing 
f nuclear weapons, and that it 
will invite the UN to. establish 
within our territory a test-moni
toring system to prove to the 
world our good faith and as a 
precedent toward a universal, 
controlled, and inspected test ban 
agreement. Then, having taken 
this step, the US shoi Id call upon 
the Soviet Union, Great Britain,
^and France to follow our example 
4 and to permit the UN to set up 
such test monitoring systems 
within their national borders.
2. We urge the government not 
to provide nuclear weapons to
hotel
WEBSTER HALL
Youll rate with 'your date...
i For a meal or just
____ a snack-put Hotel
Webster Hall on your 
close-to-campus entertain
ment schedule.
hotel Wefedte/
4415 Fifth Avenu# Pimboroh 13, Fo. 
 T*lphoni MAyflowr 1-7700
S. GREEN
All Watches Electronically Timed
EXPERT WATCH AND 
JEWELRY REPAIRS 
123 Oakland Ave. MU 1-61*9
those powers not presently in 
possession of them and to seek 
UN inspection of nuclear reactors 
in those nations which do not yet 
have nuclear weapons, to insure 
that such reactors are being used 
only for peaceful purposes.
3. We urge the government to 
withdraw its missile bases in 
areas such as Turkey and Italy 
where their vulnerability to at
tack makes them useless except 
for the purpose of a first strike 
against the Soviet Union. Such 
initiative on our part should be 
followed by a request that the 
Soviet Union make similar with
drawals.
4. We urge the government to 
seek disengagement ir. Central 
Europe, both as a genuine resolu
tion of the Berlin crisis, and as 
a basis for further negotiations 
towards disarmament.
5. We urge the government to 
commit itself fully to the struggle 
against poverty, hunger and dis
ease throughout the world. This 
massive economic aid should be 
channeled through the UN both 
in order to take economic aid out 
of the context of the Cold War 
and also to strengthen the UN. 
Having taken this initiative we 
should then call upon the Soviet 
Union to join us in channeling 
its economic aid through the UN.
IIT Analyzes 
X-Ray Diffraction 
And Its Uses
Two one week sessions in X-ray 
diffraction analysis will be con
ducted by Illinois Institute of 
Technology, June 4-15.
The summer x-ray analysis 
program at Illinois Tech provides 
training in the utilization of x-ray 
diffration methods for the identi
fication and characterization of 
crystallographic properties of 
commercial materials.
The power method in x-ray 
analysis session, June 4-8, is de
signed to familiarize beginners 
with the use of x-ray diffraction 
methods in the analysis of poly
crystalline materials. The ad
vanced methods in x-ray analysis 
session, June 11-15, will provide 
advanced students with the back
ground necessary for analysis of 
complex problems.
Enrollment is limited to sixteen 
students in each course. No pre
requisites are required for these 
non-credit courses.
According to Azaroff, early reg
istration is recommended because 
the number of applications has 
exceeded the enrollment in each 
course by a considerable number 
in the last few years.
Information concerning fees and 
on-campus housing may be ob
tained from Prof. Leonid Azaroff, 
Illinois Institute of Technology, 
Chicago 16, Illinois.
We allmake mistakes.. 
ERASE WITHOUT A TRACE 
ON EATONS CORRASABLE BOND
Typing errors never show on Corrasable. The special sur* 
face of this paper makes it possible to erase without a 
tracewith just an ordinary pencil eraser. Results: clean* 
looking, perfectly typed papers. Next time you sit down 
at the keyboard, make no mistake  type on Corrasable!
Your choice of Corrasable in 
light, medium, heavy weights and 
Onion Skin. In handy 100- 
eheet packets and 500-sheet 
boxes. Only Eaton makes 
Corrasable.
A Berkshire Typewriter Paper
ROCIS GOGRK TIKGIKOCFIS YWR!Y GFCCHiFREqo UOHH
RCA, builder of Tiros Satellite, 
needs young engineers today 
for spectacular achievements tomorrow
Tiros has broadened mans scope of the heavens 
and earth. From an orbiting observation post high 
in the sky, it transmits a new wealth of meteorolog
ical information to earth-bound stations below.
Tiros is only one of many RCA successes in the 
wide, wide world of electronics. And as the horizons 
of electronics steadily expand, the need for more 
and more competent and creative engineers in
creases in direct ratio. Thats why RCA, now in 
the forefront of electronic progress, offers such 
tremendous opportunities for Electrical Engineers, 
Mechanical Engineers, and Physicists.
If you already know what you want to do in 
engineering ... and are qualified, RCA can offer 
you direct assignments in your chosen field, and 
back you up with training and guidance by ex
perienced engineers.
If youre not quite sure which direction you wont
fo go ... RCAs Design and Development Special
ized Training will help to point the way. You'll 
receive full engineering salary while you progress
through engineering assignments that give you a 
clear picture of various fields you might choose.
Or, if youd like to continue your graduate study
... RCA will pay full costtuition, fees and ap
proved textwhile you go to school or study two 
days a week, and work at RCA three days.
These are only a few of the many reasons for getting 
all the facts about a career with RCA. See your 
placement officer now about getting together with 
an RCA representative, for an interview on:
March 5
Or,,send your rfsumi to:
College Relations
Radio Corporation of America
Cherry Hill, Comden 8, N.J.
The Most Trusted Name Hi Electronics
 MDiO COMfOftATION Of AMCMtCA
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

gaaiBBSH li WMII < ff Bf IW TTT
rgr   THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wcrtnesdar. February 21, 196?
March Seminar Planned 
On Peaceful Freedom
Non-violence and the Struggle for Freedom is the 
topic of a seminar for all college and graduate students 
scheduled for March 2-4 by the American Friends Service 
Committee.
The seminar is part of a program of work camps and 
seminars begun by the AFSC in the Pittsburgh area. Similar
programs of work camps have* -----------------------------------------------------
been in operation for twenty years 
in the Philadelphia area drawing 
students from Swarthmore, Ha
ver ford and other area colleges.
The seminar scheduled for 
March 2-4 begins Friday night 
and ends Sunday afternoon. Stu
dents will stay at the Friends 
Meeting House and various spe
cialists will be called in to stimu
late the discussions. Such semi
nars are planned to be workshops 
on ideas for exploring in depth 
pressing problems of our time.
Work Camps
The work camps, scheduled for 
nearly every other weekend of 
February and May, provide the 
experience of living amidst social 
problems and doing something 
constructive about them. Students 
have been working in the Home
wood or Brushton area. They get 
together Friday night or stay in 
one of the churches in the area. 
They work with people, not for 
them  they only work if resi
dents will work along with them, 
for developing relationships is an 
important part of the program.
A summer long, full-time workcamp in the Homewood Brushton 
area is planned for college stu
dents from all over the nation this 
summer. Participants will be in
volved in clean-up activities, 
house repair, and playground 
supervision.
The cost for the work camps is 
$4 00 which covers board and in
surance, and for the seminars is 
$6.00, which covers boards, read
ing material, and newsletter subFour Sections
scription. Scholarships are avail
able for those who cannot afford 
the minimum cost. For informa
tion contact Jim Syphers, AFSC 
Youth Secretary, Pittsburgh Area 
Office, 1353 Shady Ave., Pitts
burgh 17, Pa., phone: HA. 1-7560.
The American Friends Service 
Committee attempts to relieve 
human suffering and to seek for 
nonviolent solutions to conflicts 
personal, national, and interna
tional.
In addition to its youth services 
program, the AFSC works in the 
United States and about 20 other 
countries on community relations, 
seminars and institutes on peace 
and international affairs, relief 
and rehabilitation, and social and 
technical assistance. Its work is 
carried on without regard to race, 
creed, or politics and is supported 
and staffed by people of many 
faiths.
Mardi Gras Theme ofiMasked BalV For March 2
[continued from page 1.1 
International Club has arranged 
for portrait studies to be made 
by Mr. Irwin Harris, outstanding 
photographer of beautiful wom
en. From these studies Mr. Harris 
will select photographs to be in
cluded in his New York and Pitts
burgh exhibits.
In addition to the dancing and 
crowning of the Queen, a floor 
show will offer several interna
tional talents. These will include 
musicians from the Orient, Eur
ope, and the U.S.
Special prizes will be awarded
for the outstanding costumes 1 
the dance. The theme for this 
event provides the widest rang 
for inventiveness and creativity in 
designing costumes.
The International Club extarii 
a cordial invitation to the i 
campus to attend this event.
AOlR O qOCR 
m) iPQ:1t:3 0.
If you're about to get your electrical, mechanical 
or industrial engineering degree sign up today 
with your Placement Officer for an interview on  
the above date with a representative of West 
Penn Power. If you want a career and 
not just a job, sign up and learn all 
about this engineering-minded com
pany where you can surge ahead.
WEST PENN POWER COMPANY
Cabin Hill, Greensburg, Pennsylvania
Nw! Bit fcdtotdftf eod togdottrf 
et Fwrd'f rtftercb eod fcdtotdfdc 
sebf dw dtes do ptrptties notions 
eod tbtr bevt mwrt tbeo e ftng 
ebwit nbet mdgbt bt cwmmwo
psect do tbt fitirt, fwmt wf tbtm 
jift ef ftertsdogg
Stiddtf et Fwrd dovwsvdog otn 
totrgr fwirctf eod dmprwvtd 
mettrdesf mer btsp brdog jttV 
prwptsstd cerf ndtb grrw ftebdsdVj 
ztrfggg eitwmetdc drdvdog cwotrwsf 
ggg fsrdog eitwmwbdstf eod nbttsV 
stff vtbdcstf tbet gsddt wo ed 
cifbdwo wf edr g g g vtbdcstf prwV, 
ptsstd br etwmdc totrgrggg pseftdcf 
ndtb tbt ftrtogtb wf cwovtotdwoes 
mttesf g g g edbtfdvtf tbet rtpsect 
ntsddog , gg reder eod wtbtr tstc
trwodc cwotrwsf tw effdft wr rtpsect 
tbt drdvtr do meor fdtietdwofg
Befdc ftiddtf do tbtft eod wtbtr 
fdtsdf ert jift pert wf e cwotdoidog 
prwgrem wf prwgrtff edmtd et 
rtdofwrcdog Fwrd'f leadership 
through scientific research and 
engineering.
( C/VTci )
MOTOR COMPANY
The American Road. Dearbor, Michigan
FMOOWCTS FOR TH AMERICAN ROAO-THC FA** 
* IMOU9TAY . ANO TM* AH OF SPACK
Of Kiltie Band 
Vary ActivityJ J
Most students tend tc think of 
the Carnegie Tech Kiltie Band as 
the pipe corp and band section i 
which they see at football games, J 
Actually it is make up of four 
different sections: The Pipe Corp, j 
the Marching Band, the Concert 
Band, and the Wind Ensemble. I
The Pipe Corp and Marching 
Band play at the football games, 
and this year they went to Ro
chester, New York, with the team. 
The Pipe Corp and drums take 
part in competition during the 
summer. Last summer they per
formed in the Highland Games 
at Grand Folk Mountain. North 
Carolina.
The Kiltie Symphonic Band is 
composed of students from all i 
other departments as /ell as mu
sic majors. This band gives pops 
concerts and two formal concerts 
each year at Carnegie Music Hall. ! 
They also play at several con
certs in the local Pittsburgh area 
Two years ago the band went to 
Harrisburg. They also hope to 
take a short tour this spring.! 
They play classical music, light | 
music, and show tunes. The new 
Wind Ensemble is a specially 
selected group. This group which 
plays difficult music, presented 
for the first time Friday night.
The officers are President of j 
the Kiltie Band, Bruce Becker: j 
Vice-president, Fred Samuel;! 
Secretary, Tom Kenat; Pipe Major, Bill McLay: Drum Major. I 
Fred Samuel: Director of the
Band, Richard Strang: and Di
rector of the P|>e Corp, Lewifc j 
Davidson.
The Kiltie Band is now in the 
process of changing their uni
forms to the Carnegie Plaid since j 
two years ago the last member j 
of the Carnegie Clan died, there
by releasing the Carnegie plaid, f

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 21, 1962  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Page #
Chicago'
Mon. & Tues., 
March 12 - 13
.YOUCAN TAKE 
A BIG STEP 
CLOSER TO 
.YOUR FUTURE
Tights Burn Late For Psych Grad Students 
As Courses and Research Fill Tight Schedule
Janitors have grown accustomed to leaving the lights 
on all night, every night, on the third floor of A.H. for the 
graduate students in the psychology department. The yare 
expected to put in an eighty hour week taking four or five 
courses a semester, helping professor do research, and possi
bly, doing their own research.
The department is very informal and closely knit so
cially as well as academically. This is probably because there
choice; when one has chosen his 
subject, he simply asks a few pro
fessors to make him an exam. 
Three of the grads have passed 
their qualifiers and are now work
ing on theses for their doctorates.
Very little original research is 
done on people. The grads say 
that they can get more accurate 
results with rats because they are 
are nine graduate students and fourteen professors Classes j simPleIngrown personality char
med very informally, sometimes#--------------------------------------------------------| acteristics and other variables get
in the professors office, since they 
consist of only four or five stu
dents.
Four of the students share one 
office, which is affectionately 
known by the in groups as the 
$ Bullpen. Recently, when a num
ber of them were traveling in a 
car to one of the professors 
wedding, someone brilliantly ob
served that if the car were in
volved in a fatal accident, the de
partment would be reduced by ap
proximately two-thirds.
Experimental majors 
Everyone is majoring in general 
experimental psychology. There 
are no formal course require
ments, but the grads are supposed 
to get their masters degree, in
cluding a thesis done on original 
research (practice for their Phds), 
in two years; and, they must pass
their qualifiers, given no more 
than two chances, In two or three 
years. The qualifiers are four 
exams. One is a six hour exam on 
general experimental psychology, 
which involves learning percep
tion and physiological psychology; 
to pass this exam, they must know 
more about the nervous system 
than the average doctor. The sec
ond is a four hour exam on quan
titative methods, statistics, and 
measurement. The third is a four 
hour exam on social and organi
zational psychology which is 
taken with the GSIA PhD people. 
The subject of the fourth exam is
in the way with people.
Work with people is cone in as
sisting professors or in small 
groups with GSIA. One recent re
search project was a study of 
career decision making in college 
students. Another, which is now 
underway, is Dr. Gilmers project 
on communication through the 
skin; this has practical humani
tarian applications in assisting the 
deaf and blind.
The Midwestern Psychology As
sociation is soon having a con
vention in Chicago. Many students 
are submitting papers to this con
vention on their research or on
left entirely to their individual research done with proifessors.
That's when the Linde Company rep
resentative will be on campus. He 
will be interviewing qualified engi
neering students who feel their fu
ture lies in research or applied engi
neering.
The Linde Laboratories, for examplea tTonawanda (Buffalo), N.Y., 
Speedway (Indianapolis), Ind., and 
Newark, N.J.provide an unusually 
stimulating environment for the sci
entific-minded to grow and develop. 
The many achievements of Linde 
people in research and applied engi
neering have borne a rich harvest of 
progress: Over half of Lindes cur
rent sales volume conies from prod
ucts and facilities that did not even 
exist 15 years ago.
Plan now to save this date for the 
Linde representative ... and get one 
step closer to your future. Contact 
your engineering placement office for 
an appointment.
EFSqR TIUGOSn
linde Company, Division of Union Carbide Corporation
AN EQUAL-OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
LEWIS
RADIO  ELECTRIC CO. 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
Sales - Repairs 
MA 1-4211
115 OAKLAND AVE.
NEW MAP DISPLAY WILL SHOW PILOT WHERE IN THE WORLD HE IS
No matter what the weather, speed or altitude, an IBM naviga
tional display being developed will let pilots find their posi
tions on a moving map. With this new computer display for 
planes, a pilot will actually be able to see his position though 
the earth might be totally obscured by a cloud cover.
In developing this display, IBM engineers and scientists solved 
a unique combination of optical and photographic problems. 
They were able to produce map images with good resolution on 
the inside surface of a glass hemisphere. A beam of light illu
minates a small section of this hemisphere and projects.it onto 
a screen in front of the pilot. In flight, the computer controls 
rotation of the hemisphere, correlating it with the planes 
supersonic progress and the rotating earth. This approach to 
a computer-controlled map display suggests further applica
tion in a space navigation system, where a star map might be 
used instead of a map of the earth.
People with backgrounds in the sciences, engineering and 
liberal arts all contribute to the success of projects like this. 
At IBM, ideas which create new products and systems can come 
from anywherefrom research, programming, manufacturing, 
and systems engineering. If you would like to work where your 
ideas can be as important as the ability to apply them to vital 
and exciting areas of development, you should consider the 
many opportunities at IBM.
The IBM representative will be glad to discuss with you the 
many areas in which IBM is making important advances. All 
qualified applicants will receive consideration without regard 
to race, creed, color or national origin. Your placement office 
can give you further information and arrange for an appoint
ment. Or you may write, outlining your background and inter
ests, to: Manager of Technical Employment, IBM Corporation, 
Dept. 908, 590 Madison Avenue, New York 22, N. Y.
* You naturally have a better chance to grow 
with a dynamic growth company.IBM will interview March 21, 22.
Fourth Avenue at Wood Street, 413-415 Federal Street, North Side 
4612 Forbes Avenue, Oakland 
1101 Seventh Avenue  22nd Street at 9th Avenue, Beaver Falls. P*. 
Tarentum  Koppel  Lower Burrell  Coraopolis, two office
You can bank with us by mail
I see where all 
banks are giving 
3Vt% interest 
on savings 
accounts 
now.
Yes, but only 
Union National 
Bank pays 
interest four 
times a year. 
Means you make 
more money on 
your account.
Stwp et eor wffdct wf ubt Uodwo Netdwoes 
Beok twder eod gtt ess tbt dttedsfg
THE UNION NATIONAL BANK 
OF PITTSBURGH

---------------------------------------------------

Page 19  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 21, 1962
Hostelers*1 
Plan Weekend 
Of Winter Sports
Pittsburgh Hostelers have just 
returned from their first major ski 
trip of the new year, sponsored 
primarily for the college age 
group. The four day barnstorming 
tour of ski areas in Northern 
Michigan was highlighted by a 
visit to the famous Boyne i ountain development and included 
a full measure of surprises and 
frustrations. Ski conditions were 
ideal with deep snow and good 
weather.
At one of the areas visited the 
trip leader spent half an hour 
stranded aboard a broken chair 
lift some 50 feet above the 
ground.
An all night serenade was pre
sented by the Tech students who 
were on the trip.
Patricipating in the program 
were Vicki Carlton and Claire 
Rosenfelt along with a Pitt stu
dent. Richard Rosenzweig
The next event planned by the 
Pittsburgh Council of American 
Youth Hostels for college students 
is a weekend at the Morgantown 
Hostel February 24-25 highlight
ing skiing, snowshoeing, hiking, 
possibly ice skating, and a dinner 
and dance at Mount Chateau 
overlooking the Cheat river on 
Saturday night. Those interested 
contact Edward Coleman, MU 2- 
8508 or MA 1-2600.
WRITE 
FOR 
TARTAN
Medusa was once heard to rave:
A new hair-do is just what I craye, 
With my Swingline I'll tack 
All these snakes front to back,
And invent the first permanent wave!"
ow bdggtr tbeo 
e peck wf gim!
vSNro 1111 stjflft)
Unconditionally Guaranteed
# Made in America!
# Tot 50 refills always available!
# Buy it at your stationery, 
variety or bookstore dealerl
INC.
Long itlind City 1, Nw York
IKLOI lAKSItT HAN 
FOW HOMEACTUACR 
ID OFflCC
Ceildh Brings Argo To CIT
Arthur Argo, a well-known 
Scottish folk singer, journalist 
and collector, who is currently 
touring this country, will join the 
Ceildih this Friday evening at 
7:30. Mr. Argo is making num
erous radio rnd television appear
ances, one of vhich brings him 
to Pittsburgh to appear on 
WQED. Bill McClay, captain and 
head bagpiper of the Kiltie Band 
will help Mr. Argo in his pre
sentation of Scotish folk music.
Mr. Argo, will continue the 
Ceilidh program which has al
ready presented Vivian Richman, 
a noted Pittsburgh folk singer, 
Professor Robert Engman, head 
of the Department of Sculpture 
at Yale, and Liz Senoff and 
Ailene Goodman, professional folk 
singers.
The society, in trying to stim
ulate and encourage interest in 
all forms of music by xion-professionals, has formed a madrigal 
group and is planning a recorder 
contest.
Poetry Society 
Calls For Work
The American College Poetry 
Society announces its fifth semesterly anthology of outstanding col
lege poetry being compiled for 
publication in May, 1962. All stu
dents interested are invited to 
submit their work.
Contributions must be the orig
inal work of the student (who 
shall retain literary rights to the 
material), submitted to Mr. Rich
ard A. Briand, care of the Society, 
with the entrants name, address, 
and school on each page. Poems, 
which may reflect any subject, 
should not exceed 48 lines, nor 
may any individual submit more 
than five poems. Entries that are 
not accepted for publication will 
be returned if accompanied by a 
self-addressed, stamped envelope. 
The Society, this vear, will offer 
Recognition Award of five dollars 
each to the five outstanding col
lege poets. To be considered, all 
entries must be postmarked not 
later than Thursday, April 12. De
cisions of the Society judges are 
final.
Co-Eds Eligible For Commission
Women college seniors and 
juniors are eligible to apply for 
an officers commission in one of 
the branches of the Armed Forc
es  Army, Navy, Air Force, or 
Marine Corps. A graduate who 
successfully meets all require
ments and is accepted for one of 
the programs will ge given officer 
training. This training may come 
prior to or after commissioning, 
depending upon the program 
selected. The Army, Navy, and 
Marine Corps also offer programs
for training in the summer fol
lowing the junior year.
Salary is paid during training 
and uniforms, medical care, quar
ters and meals are provided by 
the government.
Further information on women 
in the service may be secured at 
recruiting offices or by writing to: 
Defense Advisory Committee on 
Women in the Services 
Office of the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense (MP)
The Pentagon 
Washington 25, D.C.
For Shoes See . . .
WALLY'S
SHOE STORE
CAMPUS SHOES for MEN and WOMEN 
U. S. KEDS 
JARMAN and FLORSHEIM SHOES
3612 FORBES AVE. (Opposite Strand Theater)
Open Friday Night till 9 P.M.
The nudge is permitted when a beautiful girl is sighted in an unusual place or at an unusual time.
QJPK]   Concerning self-control
Although we believe that girl watching has it all over 
bird watching, we feel that these two hobbies do share 
one important characteristic.They are both genteel.They 
both respect the rights of the watched. A girl watcher 
who asks a beautiful stranger for her name and phone 
number is like a bird watcher who steals eggs. (If the
WHY BE AN AMATEUR?
JOIN THE AMERICAN SOCIETY 
OF GIRL WATCHERS NOW!
free membership card.Visit the editorial office of 
this publication for a free membership card in the worlds 
only society devoted to discreet, but relentless, girl watch
ing. Constitution of the society on reverse side of card.
This ad based on the book, The Girl Watchers Guide. Text: 
Copyright by Donald i. Sauers. Drawings: Copyright by Eldon Dedini Reprinted by permission of Harper & Brothers.
Il | Ct Pnduit tf \J& jfmw&an /v Jv&utMr 1 *ur mijdlt namt
stranger happens to have a pack of Pall Mall Famous 
Cigarettes, and youre dying for a good, natural smoke, 
you may break this rule.) Normally, the girl watcher* 
pleasure is warm, quiet and internal. However, there 
are cases when a discovery is so dazzling it must bd 
shared. Such a case is illustrated above.
Pall Malis 
natural mildness is so good 
to your taste I
So smooth, so satisfying, 
so downright smokeable!
FAMOUS CIGARETTES
jjBJio
WHEREVER PARTICULAR 
PEOPLE CONGREGATE"

---------------------------------------------------

P96* THISTLE

---------------------------------------------------

These are just a few of the photographs youll find dis
played in the Thistle exhibit at the Skibo Snack Bar. The 
1962 Thistle will feature an abundance of photographs like 
these to chronologically depict an entire year of'campus
events. Be sure to reserve your copy of this outstanding 
annual by using the order envolopes available at the Snack 
Bar exhibit.

---------------------------------------------------

Fa*e 12  THE CARNEGIE TARTAN  Wednesday, February 21, 1962
0 MEN: do you smoke 
an occasional pipe 
as well as cigarettes?
0 Whats your 
favorite 
kind of date?
dance? houseparty
? a few brews with friends? walk & talk
If* the rich-flavor 
leaf among L&M's 
choice tobaccos 
that gives you 
MORE BODY in 
the blend, MORE 
FLAVOR in the 
smoke, MORE 
TASTE through 
the filter. So get 
Lots More from 
filter smoking 
with L&M.
fr wig'rP SHIAH  UP99IP 
8U1X1N
PILTERS
LIGGETT 1 MVIRS TOBACCO
HERE'S HOW 1029 STUDENTS 
AT 100 COLLEGES VOTEO!
%0Z'"'SpU3UJ IU!M 
SM3jq M3J Z 
%0Zrrrrrr D2Pft()mZ Q
%83 m 1 w*
%Zirrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr tm1Ph
........J9M10
 jnqpvaew
 jajewpiog
' uosuaAOjs1
j3M0i|U9S!3
%IZrrrrrrrrrr sG.LLcU
UM's the filter cigarette for people who realty like to smoke
1962
TECHNICAL GRADUATES
The Inland Steel Company, East Chicago, Indi
ana, invites you to investigate our many career 
opportunities. Our representatives will be on 
your campus on Wednesday, March 7th. Contact 
Air. Charles E. Wangman for an appointment.
INLAND STEEL COMPANY
East Chicago, Indiana
All qualified applicants will receive consideration 
for employment without regard to race, creedx 
color, or national origin.
Tech Barely Misses Victory 
Over Westminster Swim Team
By Ken Kantrowitz
A valiant effort fy a strengthened and improved Car
negie Tech swimming squad was not quite enough, as they 
succumbed to Westminster at New Wilmington on Saturday, 
February 17, in a closely contested meet by the score of 48- 
46. Hoping to gain revenge for the loss to Westminster earlier 
in the year by the score of 56-39, the Tartans needed the vic
tory before the final relay. Tech maintained a slight lead 
throughout the first seven events, trailed slightly for the 
next two and then regained the^
lead only to find that they needed 
two points to offset the Westmin
ster final freestyle relay victory.
The opening medley relay of 
Brunson, Wachtel, Kantrowitz, 
and Burt easily won with their 
seasons best time. Other Tech 
first places wrere captured by 
Strasen in the 160 yd. Individual 
Medley and the 200 yd. breast 
stroke and by Kantrowitz in the 
200 yd. butterfly, all closely con
tested. Vandersalm was outstand
ing as he finished second in the 
220, 100, and 440 freestyle. Kc* 
wach, Oldfield, Brunson, and Wactel took respective seconds in the 
60 free, diving, 200 back and 200 
breast strokes. Westminster cap
tain, OConnell, once again led
his team with 220, 440, and final 
relay victories. Co-captains Stras
en and Vandersalm led the Tech 
attack.
440 Yd. Medley Relay  Brunson (C), 
4:27.4, Wachtel, Kantrowita, Burt.
220 Yd. Freestyle  ODonnell (W), 
2:18.9. Vandersalm (C). Rubin (Cl.
60 Yd. Freestyle  Shade (Wl, :30.5, 
Kowach (Cl, Phillips (W).160 Yd. Individual Medley  Strasen 
(Cl, 1:55.0. Clark (W).Fancy Diving  Frederick (W), 57.0 
points, Oldfield (C), Dale (Wi.200 Yd. Butterfly  Kantizowitz (C), 
2:42.3, Clark (WI. Lester (Cl.
100 Yd. Freestyle  Shade (Wi, :55.7, 
Vandersalm (Cl, Wolverton (W.
200 Yr. BackstrokeWillis (Wi, 2:37.6. 
Brunson (Cl. Woods (Wl.440 Yd. Freestyle  O'Donnell (W), 
5:19.0. Vandersalm (C>. Kantrowitz (Ci.
200 Yd. Breaststroke  Strasen (C), 
2:46.0. Wachtel (C>. Ledrik (W'.400 Yd. Freestyle Relay  Shade (W), 
3:50.8. Wolverton, Clark. O'Donnell.
Final Score: 48 (W); 46 (C)
TECH RECOVERS TO DEFEAT FENN
By Ken Kantrowitz
After losing its first meet of the second semester to a* 
powerful Kent State team 64-29 at Kent pool on Friday, 
February 9, the Tech swimming team came back the next 
day to win a thriller from Fenn College at Fenn pool, 49-46. 
Although they saw two new faces in the lineup, the tank
ers filt the loss of four first semester regulars. Most of the
undermanned Tech squad of nine* 
men competed in two or three 
events per meet, a gruelling task.
Against Kent State, Tech could 
do little as Kents most powerful 
squad controlled the meet from 
the opening gun, retting three 
school marks in the first five 
events. Tom Vandersalm won the 
440 freestyle, the only Tech vic
tory Steve Srasen and newcomer 
Tom Brunson each took two sec
ond places.
At Fenn. Techs opening med
ley relay lowered its best time of 
the season by five seconds but 
was just beaten by Fenn with a 
new team record. Vandersalm, 
Tyler Burt, Strasen, and Brunson 
captured firsts for Tech, while 
each man on the squad with vital 
seconds and thirds helped keep 
the meet close. Each team man
aged to sweep only one event. Go
ing in to the final freestyle relay
the score was Fenn 46, Tech 43. 
The relay proved to be the dif
ference as Tech overcome a ten 
yard gap and raced to victory.
In the two meets, Vandersalnfe 
was Techs high point man follow
ed by Strasen, Brunson, Burt, and; 
Snow.
400 Yd. Medley Relay -Zidek (F) 
4:30.3. Kulicke. Kudukis. Hoenes.
220 Yd. Freestyle  Vandersalm (C)*i 
2:31.0. Lull (Fl, Michel (F*.
50 Yd. Freestyle  Burt (C), .27.3^1 
Snow (Cl, Chappel (F).
200 Yfl. Individual Medley  Strasen 
(C, 2:36.4. Harris (F), Wachtel (Cl.
Fancy Diving  Smialek (F) 58.*
points, Oldfield (C), Snow (C).
100 Yd. Freestyle  Brunson (C), :58.5H 
Hoenes (Fl, Burt (C).
200 Yd. Breaststroke  Zidek (F) H 
2:39.6, Alberg (F), Rubin (C.
44* Yd. Freestyle  Vandersalm (C)tf 
5:56.2. Lull (F), Kantrowitz.
200 Yd. Breaststroke  Kulicke (F) 
2:42.2. Strasen (C), Kudukis.
400 Yd. Freestyle Relay  Snow (C), 
4:03.2. Burt, Vandersalm. Brunson.
Final Score: 49 (C)  46 (F)-
Kent State vs. Carnegie Tech
400 Yd. Medley RelayODonnell (C), 
4:07.2, Turby, Weber, Schiller.
220 Yd. FreestyleAbbott (K), 2:16.0. 
Oakum (K), Vandersalm (Cl.
50 Yd. Freestyle  Smith (K), 25.1, 
Brunson. Montgomery (K).
200 Yd. Individual MedleyWeber (K), 
2:18.6, Strasen (C), Wachtel (C).
Fancy DivingNece (K), 221.8 points, 
Hufler (Ki, Oldfield (C).
200 Yd. ButterflySchiller (K>, 2:46.5, 
Kantrowitz (C).
100 Yd. Freestyle  Smith (K), 56.2, 
Snow (Cl, Burt (C).
200 Yd. Back Stroke  Brown (K),
2:34.0. Brunson (C).
400 Yd. Freestyle  Vandersalm (C),
5:31.7, Montgomery (K), Kantrowitz (C).
200 Yd. Breaststroxe  Turby (K),
2:42.5, Strasen (C), Wachtel (C>.
400 Yd. Freestyle Relay  Smith (K), 
4:13.0, Babiak, Schiller. Hufler.
Final Score: 
64 (Kent); 29 (CIT)
TRACK CALL
The returning trackmen from 
the 61 season extend an invita
tion to all Tech men interested in 
participating in intercollegiate 
track to attend practice which is 
nbw in progress.
Practice will be on our new 
track and the team will meet in 
the locker room in the sub-base
ment of Donner Hall at 4:30. Dur
ing the week, practice uniforms 
will be given out.
We stress the fact that previous 
experience is definitely not nec
essary. Several of the top men 
on last years team had no track 
experience before coming to Tech. 
Also another important point is 
that although you may now be in 
said physical condition you have 
(effectively) until May to get into 
condition. Our first meet is on 
April, 7, but the tough part of 
our schedule comes in May.
Freshmen and sophomore track 
participants are excused from 
gym.
With some support from new
comers track can definitely be
come a winning sport at Tech,
Rdfst utem Wdof Wtft * 
Ptoo Cwoftrtoct 
Wdss Sbwwt Io NRA
For the fifth straight year the 
varsity rifle team has won the 
West Penn Conference Champion
ship. The only loss in this years 
six match series was the las 
match of the season, which was 
taken by Geneva College. *
The rifle team also shoots in 
the Greater Pittsburgh Intercol
legiate Rifle League, where they 
have a 4 and 3 record. This places 
them in third place.
There are only two remaining 
matches left to fire before the 
team travels to Annapolis. They 
are scheduled to compete with 
Pitt and Penn State, then, on 
March 10th, they will take part 9 
in the NRA sectional meet at the'' 
U.S. Naval Academy.
GPIRL Standings
TeamW.L.Avgr.
W.V.U...............501423.75
W & J...........521405.43
C.I.T..................431395.71
PITT .............141347.80
DUQ..................051242.40
