The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University^ Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 20, March 19, 1981.
Smith wins presidential election
Senate raises objections to new housing policies
by Alice Alfonsi
Twenty-five percent of the CMU student 
population elected a new student govern
ment president and 17 representatives to the 
Student Senate last week. Steve Smith rap
tured the presidency with 547 votes, passing 
Nina Houskas 366 and Ralph Shermans 
161 tally.
The margin of the presidential victory 
surprised Smith as well as Beth Bangor, 
chairman of the election board. The atmos
phere was pretty tense, said Bangor, a lot 
of people expected a closer election. Even 
the write-in campaign made a showing with 
Tom McCarthy of the Albatross party 
receiving 80 votes and Joseph Csonk receiv
ing 21.
Enthusiastic, Smith cant wait to get 
started as president. Smiths first move will 
be to meet with University President 
Richard Cyert and top administrators to dis
cover what they think can be* done in student 
government. Smith also plans to hold an 
open student forum to make sure that his 
ideas are what the students want.
The senate seats for CIT will be occupied 
for a full term by Alexandra Kavoulakis(288), Mark Fisher(284), John 
Snyder(276), Bill Gross(274), and Bob 
Holste(259). Half term seats will be occu
pied by Chris Tschappatt(245), and write-in 
Ferit Tabi(21).
The CFA full term seats elected were
The following resolution wras passed at 
the Senate meeting last Monday:
We, the Students of CMU and Student 
Senate assembled, do hereby protest the fol
lowing actions of the Housing division of 
the Auxiliary Services Department of 
Camegie-Mellon University.
1. TTie fact that the additional increase in 
housing rates was imposed after the $100 
housing deposit was due.
2. The policy of the university that capital 
improvements be funded in one year.
3. The proposal of these increases without 
seeking student opinion or representation 
in making any budget decisions.
4. The proposal of the planned capital 
improvements without seeking student 
opinion or representation in the considera
tion of these improvements.
continued on page 5
Independent colleges suffer 
with proposed budget cuts
by Melody Mazzie
President Reagans proposed budget cuts 
may cause 1982 to be a tight year for inde
pendent collges. Student Senators Doug 
Camey, senior architect, and Bob Holste, 
sophomore chemical engineer, attended a 
conference March 3rd in Harrisburg held by 
the Coalition of Private University Students 
(COPUS), to discuss the situation. Camey is 
chairman of the Academic Affairs Commit
tee of Student Senate. Holste is chairman of 
the Senates Rules Committee, and chair
man of the State Teenage Republicans.
In 1980-81, the total Pennsylvania Higher 
Education Assistance Agency (PHEAA) 
budget to all Pennsylvania universities was 
$74.8 million; the budget for 1981-82 is $76.2 
million. According to Camey, the increase 
in the PHEAA budget for the private sector 
was considerably less than the increase for 
the public sector. Although 40% of students 
in the suite attend private institutions; Car
ney feels that the PHEAA allotment to pri
vate institutions is disproportionately low 
compared to the number of students that 
they [private universities] educate."
In an effort to change that fact, the stu
dents who attended the COPUS conference 
lobbied the State House to prevent further 
tuts.
COPUS is a nationwide organization. As
representatives of COPUS, the students 
voted to sunt a state wide chapter railed 
PISC--Pennsylvania Independent Colleges 
and Universities. "PISC, claims Camey, 
"is an information center where student 
governments can call on other student 
governments in the suite to try and share 
mutual problems in an effort to solve them.
The purpose of PISC is to be an effective 
student lobby in Harrisurg. Carney 
explained, "Hie basic complaint they
(PISC) had was that there are many lobby
ists on behalf of students, but they dont 
really know how students feel. Camey also 
contends that the voting population in a 
college can make a significant difference in 
the election of county represen ta lives and 
even state senators.
Of the more than 72 private institutions 
in Pennsylvania, about 20 were represented 
at the conference. For 1980-81, CMU was 
second only to Duquesne in the amount of 
aid given by PHEAA toa privately run insti
tution. CMU received $534,702, while 
Duquesne received $786,016.
PISC will hold another meeting on 
March 27 in York, Pa. The organization, 
Camey said, probably will get off the 
ground and be a viable means for students to 
voice objections to any issues on the floor in 
Harrisburg.
1983 tuition hike expected
by Alice Alfonsi and Monica Cellio
The Tuition Committee has decided that 
the 1983 tuition should be increased. This 
committee, established each year to advise 
the higher administration on tuition 
changes, currently consists of administra
tion, faculty, students, and two parents. The 
Associate Dean of CIT and a professor in 
metallurgy', Mel Bernstein, is the head of the 
tuition committee this year.
The Committees final recommendation, 
which will b submitted to President Cyert, 
will be made when the committee recon
venes on Marc h 30.
The 1%3 tuition hike will probably be 
continued on page 5
Doug Camey(143), Michael Scuffle(131), 
and Mark Bufalini(127). Elaine Bassil(122) 
will serve a half term CFA senate seat.
For H&SS Daniel Fry( 123) and Andy 
Stahl(102) will serve full terms while writein John Roppo(39) will serve a half term.
MGS students elected Janelle Molloy(l 16) 
and Sandy Ruscin(104) to fill the twoavailable full term seats.
A small percentage of AMS students 
elected Ed Novak(41).
Amazing Kreskin held volunteers from the audience under his control Iasi week in a 
demonstration of the power of sugestin, See story on page 6.
Bangor felt that having the polls located 
only in Skibo made the voting run much 
more efficiently. She and the Election 
Board would like to thank all of those who 
took the time to vote.
Steve Smith, new senate president, says he 
cant wait to get started.
by Jennifer Hutton and Jim Balsom
Student Senate, during a special session 
last Monday, passed a resolution voicing 
their objections to the recent ten percent 
average increase in campus Housing rates. 
The resolution objected to the additional 
increase in Housing rates...after the $100 
Housing deposit was due. (See complete text 
of resoluton on next page.)
The resolution also expressed Senates 
concern that students were not included in 
the decision to rev ise the increase from seven 
to ten percent and that the proposed capital 
improvements were not subject to student 
input.
Senator Mark Fisher (CIT) objected to the 
fact that the 10% increase1 had been 
announced only a few days >before room 
retention. Fisher felt that this additional 
increase might have been enough to change 
the minds of students who had previously 
planned to reuiin their rooms; however, 
these students where not given enough time 
to try to make other housing arrangements 
for next year.
Earle Swank, Dean of Student Affairs and 
ex-officio member of Student Senate, agreed 
that the students had a legitimate plea 
about the Housing rates. Swank said, if a 
tuition rate can be established a year in 
advance, it seems to me that the same can be 
done for Housing and Food Service. 
Currently housing rates are scheduled to 
increase by almost 10% for dormitory 
residents and 13% for fraternity residents. 
Both increases, according to Oscar Mayer, 
director of Auxiliary Services, are intended 
to help re-build Housings capital reserve 
accounts so that renovations and 
improvements planned for the next five 
years may take place on schedule.
Tom Joseph, UFO President, objected to 
the fact that no time-table has been given 
for the capital improvements on the 
fraternity area.
Despite the increase in next years 
housing rates, the total amount that a 
student will spend for a standard double 
room and a 21 meal contract will be $2,520 
next year, compared with $2,600 this year.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
' * \ ' '  * 8 $ A ' "Housings latest blunder is in public relations
The Office of Housing has recently announced an additional increase in the 1981- 82 housing rates. What makes this increase appear to be especially obnoxious is the responsible way in which Ken Stover and Food Service handled their own recent controversy.While Food Service responded to student concerns with modified policies, Housing has completely ignored student input and has, in fact, produced even more exacting rates and policies for next year.What is disturbing us, even more than the policy of demanding current students to pay for future capital improvements (which is very disturbing), is the fact that Housing reported the additional increase so close to room retention.
Housing seems to be banking on die inelasticity of students demand for housing. The administrators involved also knowT that once parents have committed $ 100 for their sons housing, a three percent increase will not be enough to coerce them to withdraw their deposit.
The upsetting thing is that Housing will probably win. Even if forty students decide to buck the system and withdraw their deposits, forty-one will be at the Housing Office door the next morning with their applications.The ironic thing is that if Housing had originally announced a thirteen percent average room increase and brought it down to ten, instead of raising the increase from seven per
cent, Gerald Dalton could be basking in the same public relations sunlight as Ken Stover.For now, the Housing officials will have to remain indoors until they agree to take the increase back to the original seven percent.
President Smiths first job
The Tartan congratulates Steve Smith on his election as Student Government president. We would also like to assign him his first major task.We want Steve Smith to go to the Housing Office as our leader. We want him to tell Mr. Dalton that we are upset, and then we want him to guide the Student Senate in creating some meaningful action directed toward the, policy. Good luck President Smith!
Inside politicsTreating that stubborn budget-cutting fever
by Bill Kapner
Current budget-cutting fever has rejuve
nated the national drive for a constitutional 
amendment to balance the federal budget. 
Supporters of such an amendment feel that 
it is the only way to discipline Congress and 
rthe Executive branches of the government in 
face of tremendous pressures from spe
cial interests for appropriations and special 
considerations.
At this writing, the state legislatures of 
Missouri and Washington are very close to 
passing resolutions calling for a constitu
tional convention to hammer out a bal
anced budget amendment. If the resolutions 
pass, the number of states petitioning Con
gress will be 32, only 2 short of the required 
2/3 erf all state legislatures needed to force 
Congress into some sort of action.
The constitution allows an amendment 
in two ways. The most familiar is for 2/3 of
each chamber of the US Congress to propose 
an amendment, which must be ratified by 
3/4 of all state legislatures (38 or more). The 
second method is through a convention, 
called by 2/3 of the states, which is com
prised of delegates from each of the 50 states.
Except for the original in 1787 there has 
never been a constitutional convention, nor 
are there any written rules to govern the 
convention process. All previous drives for a 
constitutional convention have been 
deflected by Congress which has taken a 
move on its ownusually proposing its 
own version of an amendment. The most 
notable case was the drive for a convention 
which prompted Congress to offer the 17 th 
amendment in 1912 calling for the direct 
election of US Senators.
Many experts and scholars feel that an 
unrestricted constitutional convention 
would be nothing short of constitutionalcrisis in that numerous special interests may be 
successful in expanding the agenda of the 
invention to include such topics as abor
tion, prayer in public schools and the death 
penalty.
There are some, however, that feel that a 
runaway convention can be avoided and 
even if other amendments are proposed they 
would never receive the ratification of 3/4 of 
the states. W. Andrew Achenbaum, an 
.American historian here at CMU, believes 
that the drastic defeat of any controversial 
amendment coming out of a convention 
will point out the durability and restore 
faith in our constitution.
It is doubtful, though, that a convention 
wFill actually take place. If 33 states pass 
resolutions, Congress will likely take up the 
issue itself. And even if the 34 states do call 
for a convention, it can be averted on the 
basis that that the language of the individ-.
letters
Arch .professor responds to Tartan article
Editor
An article by Alice Alfonsi with the cap
tion Students support Larson appeared 
on page 9 of the March 10th, 1981 issue of 
The Tartan. I will quote a portion erf it.
... according to Sauer... This ad hoc com
mittees decision was that his (Larsons) role 
should not be extended from his present 
position. Sauer fell that normal processes
were gone through....
I was a member of the so-called ad hoc 
committee. This committee met a few 
times and after the last meeting each 
member was asked to submit a recommen
dation in writing to Sauer by him. I did. I do 
not know if the other members of this com
mittee submitted theirs. The committee was 
never reconvened to my knowledge after I 
submitted my recommendation to Sauer. I
Vandalism costs students
Editor:
1 am writing in response to the article 
written by Maura Farrell concerning van
dalism (Tartan, March 10, 1981). It is about 
time that someone spoke out and made it 
aware to the students that we are paying a 
higher tuition just because some idiots get 
kicks from destroying things. Not only is 
this vandalism costing students more 
money but also aggravation. Case in point: 
Sunday I attempted to use a campus phone 
and found that the mike was missing from 
the hand set. I went to another phone box, 
and found the same situation I believe thai 
ihere was noi one working campus phone 
on any hill dormitory.
I hope those few' students doing this van
dalism will grow up and realize dial they are 
screwing themselves as well as the rest of us.
P.K. Tucker 
ChemE 83
Letter Policy
A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writers address and 
phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
reserves the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
was not invited to participate in any further 
discussions about Larson. I know of no 
record of a committee decision. I signed no 
majority, minority or unanimous report 
from the committee.
At tire first meeting of the ad hoc com
mittee I raised questions about procedures 
in Larsons case. My written recommenda
tion commented on the process.
Your reporter should check her stories. 
Either Sauers right or hes wrong. My 
knowledge suggests the latter in this 
instance.
Sincerely, 
Delbert Highlands 
Professor of Architecture
Housing stand
Editor:
"We, thi* members of the National 
Panhellenic Council at CMU, strongly 
supjxm the resolution pro|x>se*d by the 
student senate and would like to suggest that 
the* deadline for sorority house* rosters he at 
the same time* as room draw.
Sincerely, 
Jenny Thom 
Vice-President Housing 
for Panhel
ual resolutions is too disparate.
As an editorial in last Wednesdays New 
York Times suggests, Theres mischief 
enough in the idea that propels this conven
tion call. A constitutionally mandated bal
anced budget at this juncture would be far 
too restrictive on the president. The execu
tive request to raise the debt ceiling in Janu
ary was evidence that even for this budget 
slashing administration, balancing the fed
eral budget is a complicated, incremental 
process.
Lets wait and see what effects a balanced 
budget has on inflation before we talk about 
a constitutional amendment. Even then, the 
amendment should provide escape clauses, 
such as a provision allowing deficit spend
ing if approved be one-half of each chamber 
of Congress. Indeed, there is no one more 
anxious to balance the budget than the pres
ident and his cadre of economic advisors: 
there is currendy no need for such harsh and 
risky medicine as a constitutionally man
dated balanced budget.
Bill Kapner is a senior majoring in history 
and is a political columnist for The Tartan.
Editor-in-Chief.......................Richard Gorelick
Associate Editor....................................Bob Leighty
Managing Editor.............................Robert Zusman
Business Manager.................... Linda Hetrick
Asst. Business Manager........Pam Shugennan
News Editor ............................. Jennifer Hutton
Asst News Editors...........................Alice Alfonsi }
Monica Cell*0
Features Editor..................... Maureen Brennan
Asst. Features Editor................Kathy Knimmert
Entertainment Editor.........................Adam Lauzar
Sports Editor................... *...........Gregg Bossier
Dossier Editor.............f................Lynn Epstein
Photography Editors..............Cliuck Chidekel
Doug EH'S
Contributing Editors.......................... Jim Balsofli
Sue* Borg ; 
Doug Kii sop
Production Manager ..........................Vina* Guinto
Production Staff...................................Bob Harr
Mark Shelton
C iopyright ' 1981 by The Tartan, Ilx* Editorial Bo.1 
reserves the right to withhold front publication att> 
<o|>\ a deems unfit lor publication. Editorial 
Skilio j0. (112) 578-2111. Business (Xfxes Skib<> '>2. 
(112) 378-211121 Ikhii phone, (112) 378-211.1 Mail'1* 
Mkltess: Box 17. S* benle\ Park. Pittsburgh PA l->2^ 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.J

---------------------------------------------------

March 19, 1981The TartanPage 3
letters___________
Letter called inaccurate
Editor:
I would like to, first of all, congratulate 
Mr. Steven Smith upon his election as the 
next Student Government President. I 
would like to wish him, and the next stu
dent senate, the best of fortune in its endea
vours. As well, I would like to congratulate 
Nina Houska upon her well run campaign 
for the presidency. Of course, I would like to 
thank all those that voted for me. This was 
an educational and enjoyable experience for 
me. I believe that the students of CamegieMellon University have received the student 
government that they deserve.
,4s to last weeks Tartan issue, there is one 
letter, from a Ms. Susan Yarmoff, arid a 
contributing editor to the Tartan, Mr. Jim 
Balsom. There are several inaccuracies (to be 
polite) within it, that I can only now correct, 
unfortunately. I have already pointed these 
inaccuracies out to Mr. Balsom.
In their letter, I was accused of being hesit
ant to make decisions, of not being a strong 
leader. To back up this specious claim, they 
cite supposed evidence that I wavered over 
food service and draft registration decisions. 
These are both inaccurate, on several bases.
First of all, a proposal voicing opposition 
to draft registration had been proposed by 
myself, and former Senator Dan Nichols 
(H&SS) in the previous year, and was passed 
without opposition by the Student Senate, 
on behalf of the students of CMU. In 1980, 
as Chairman of Senate, I also ran a meeting 
at which this resolution was re-affirmed by 
Student Senate. This issue nei>er came up 
while I was Student Government President; 
and it was already firmly dealt with by 
Senate.
Further, I am attacked for poor leadership 
on Food Service issues. While in office as 
President, for a few weeks, I attended all the 
appropriate meetings, and spoke up vehe
mently against the sudden closing of Food 
Service facilities in Morewood. As we all 
know, those operations were subsequently 
re-opened.
Finally, as to the draft rally that is menti
oned, I was indeed the sponsor of a motion 
regarding it, for a member of my H&SS 
constituency, as a Student Senator. Not as 
Student Government President. Here, once 
more, I took a stand, well before I took office 
as Chairman of Senate, let alone President.
In the future, I trust and hope Mr. Balsom 
and Ms. Yarmoff will more closely verify 
their statements before expounding upon 
them. I had presumed Mr. Balsom would 
have already been in this practice, after 
working for the Tartan. As well, I hope that 
for the future elections, that any statements 
about candidates will come with ample time 
for responses to be made and accuracy 
checked.
I thank you for this opportunity to clear 
the record, and to put in my two cents 
worth.
Sincerely yours, 
Ralph M. Sherman
Sleeping bag program needs improvements
Editor:
1 am writing a reply to a letter in the 
March 10 issue of The Tartan by Wane 
Bond, an admissions counselor. Mr. Bonds 
(sic) plea for students to take in sleeping 
baggers is greatly understated and some
what misdirected.
The statement hosting a sleeping bagger 
requires only that you provide a space on 
your floor and a receptive attitude... seems 
to be the basic content of the weekend. Hav
ing both attended a program, as well as 
hosted a sleeping bagger, Ive witnessed the 
great lack of planned activity during these 
weekends. The campus tour offered can be 
described as general at best. The amount 
of information obtained from attending and 
participating in the seminars can be learned 
from reading the barrage of literature 
mailed to prospective students.
Perhaps instead of a free sleeping bag 
these students should be given tours show
ing all the options in housing, tours of 
departmental facilities (sic), an informal 
reception with faculty, or even a bus tour of 
the city of Pittsburgh. A student who is 
down to making a final decision does not 
need a sleeping bag. They need specific 
details about where they are going to be 
living and working, who theyll be living 
and working with, and the community 
which they all share.
These are things I feel the prospective 
freshman program should and does not 
include. As a host I find it impossible to say 
Heres your floor, enjoy your stay. Rather 
I am compelled to fill in as many gaps as I 
can. Mr. Bond and the other counselors 
should seriously look at what they offer the 
prospective student. After all, you dont kill
flies with vinegar and a free sleepingbag 
docs not a decision make.
Sincerely, 
Peter M. Taub 
CFA
Homey dorms
Editor:
In response to Laurie Elms letter regard
ing the lack of a homey feeling in the 
dormitory' and the agony of having to climb 
seven flights of stairs to get to her room, I 
have just one thing to say:
Laurie,
You know the old saying, dont you? It 
goes something like this:
If you cant stand the heat, get out of the 
kitchen.A friend
Administrator wants student input in university policy
Editor,
The tradition of student participation in 
the governance process is .a long one at 
,Carnegie-Mellon University and has been so 
taken for granted that its importance may be 
neglected. Indeed for the last year and a half 
there, is some evidence that makes members 
of the faculty and administration question 
whether students value the opportunity 
presented by their appointment to a wide 
range of university committees.
During the late sixties when the Faculty 
Senate was reorganized at Carnegie-Mel Ion 
University, provision was made for students 
to sit on those councils of the Faculty Senate 
which customarily made the deciding 
recommendations to the university covering 
such diverse things as regulation of student 
behavior, the adoption of pass/fail grading, 
and the academic calendar. Shortly thereaf
ter, partly out of a misconception of the role 
f the trustees in the governance of the uni
versity, students requested greater participa
tion in the meetings of the tmstees and two 
significant developments began. First the 
president of student government was asked 
to address the trustees at each of the three 
meetings held on campus during the aca
demic year. 'The president of the Faculty 
Senate was asked to make a similar report. 
But to insure much more accurate involve
ment with the business of the trustees, stu
dents were invited to hold seats on the 
forking committees of the trustees, those
committees whose reports became the basis 
of the actions or approvals of the Board 
itself. Such participation by students with 
Trustees was sufficiently unusual that other 
institutions wrote regularly to ask whether 
students were able to contribute by their 
membership on Trustee committees and 
whether the work-of the Board was com
promised by the presence of students. I am 
pleased to be able to say that I know of no 
case in which students participation with 
trustees in the work of the committees either 
hampered the work or failed to provide 
insight which helped the trustees in their 
own evaluation of the matters before them.
In addition to the Faculty Senate Coun
cils and the Trustee Committees, students 
have regularly been a part of university-wide 
committees, both standing committees and 
special committees appointed from time to 
time. Thus students have regularly been 
members of the Discipline Committee, the 
Auxiliary Services Committee, and the Tui
tion Committee annually appointed by the 
president to make recommendations to him 
on the tuition to be charged one full year 
after the report has been reviewed on the 
campus.
Early in its history the Faculty Senate also 
directed each senator (the constituency of a 
senator is normally one academic depart
ment, though large academic departments 
may have two senators) to form a student 
advisory' committee whom the senator could 
consult when matters affecting student
interests or welfare were to come before the 
Faculty Senate. And at least two colleges 
formed student committees advisory to the 
Deans of the Colleges or invited students to 
sit with the College Councils in deliberation 
about those matters exclusively the interests 
of the college.
Indeed President Cyert is so committed to 
the principle of student involvement in 
planning and advisement that he formed 
two student committees with which he 
meets monthly. The agendas encourage stu
dent input on a wide variety of matters. 
These committees, the President's Student 
Advisory Committee and the Presidents 
Minority Student Advisory Committee, 
have made significant contributions to his 
review of matters before decisions are made.
It was the advice of his Student Advisory 
Committee which led the President to 
request that each recommendation for faulty 
promotion and tenure include evidene that 
student opinion has been sought before the 
recommendation was advanced through the 
Universitys decisional process.
As the University is now constituted, 
proposals for decision making are generated 
through a wide variety of channels. The 
Councils, special committes, and Trustee 
Committees are the locus for comment and 
suggested revision of those proposals. The 
final decision to implement them lies at the 
level to which responsibility for various of 
the operations of the University has been 
designated. Thus, curricular and other deci
sions which are intramural are made by the 
dean of the college after discussion before a 
College Council. Decisions about the aca
demic calendar which affect the University 
at large are made ultimately upon the 
recommendation of the Provost and Vice 
President for Educational Affairs to the 
President.
Those examples make clear why Dr. 
Cyert has regularly urged upon the aca
demic departments the maintenance of 
effective student advisory committees for 
each academic department and why Univer
sity administrators. on occasion are dis
mayed to find that a decision presented for 
comment to one of the Committees or 
Councils mentioned above is later chal
lenged as a decision made without 
consultation.
It is increasingly important, therefore, 
that students serve on those committees and 
that they give the benefit of their counsel at 
the point when proposals for university pol
icy are being considered.
After the new student government is 
seated I will, in concert with the new presi
dent of student government, publish a list of 
university committee appointments. I urge 
every student who is interested to submit his 
or her name as a candidate for membership 
on a committee dealing with matters in 
which that student is interested.
Earl R. Swank 
Dean, Div. of Student Affairs

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanMarch 19, 1981
CMU grad receives grant for solar work
by Joe Ihnat
CMU architecture graduate, James Halpem, recently demonstrated a window box 
solar collector which was made possible by a 
grant from the U.S. Department of Energy.
A window box solar collector is a device 
which draws air out of a room, heats the air 
by sunlight, and allows the air to flow back 
into the room.
Halpern, who graduated this past 
December and now w orks for the Institute of 
Building Sciences (IBS), has been working 
on this type of collector for over a year; he 
got die idea from an article in a magazine. 
After he built the prototype, he applied fora 
grant from the U.S. Department of Energys 
Appropriate Energy Technology' Small 
Grants Program.
He received a $300 grant through the pro
gram and set to work refining the original. 
One problem was that the insulation inside 
the box started to deteriorate when left in the 
bright sunlight for a long period of time; 
this problem was corrected by using a less 
effective but more durable insulation. He 
also built several improved models. The 
result is the four collectors which now 
extend from -he houses second floor 
windows.
His device, which has no moving parts, 
uses natural convection to heat the air in a 
room. Air flows in through the bottom, over 
collector plates which have been heated by 
the sun, and rises out of the top into the 
room.
Halpern estimates that it would cost a 
homeowner about $70 to build a collector; at 
this time he has no plans .to mass-produce 
the device, and concedes that he does not 
know how much such an effort would cost. 
He also says that the device works best dur
ing the spring and fall, w hen heating needs 
are marginal; Halpem estimates that the 
device would pay for itself in about nine 
years.
Halpem is now involved with other 
energy-related activities with IBS. These 
activits include energy audits of homes 
in Manchester for inner-city redevelop
ment. Although he is a firm supporter of 
solar energy, he says that conservation is 
important so that the solar heat you gather 
wont be lost.
mm
j
James Halpem, CMU architecture graduate, 
displays his solar collector.
World News: Bell supports anti-busing, USSR launches capsule
Nation
Washington  The U.S. Census Bureau 
has disclosed that Medicare benefits were 
extended to 18.5 million Americans house
holds in 1979. With this latest figure, a total 
of one-third ot American families are now 
the recepients of Medicare, Medicaid, hous
ing subsidizies, school lunch programs, or 
food stamps. The Bureau also estimates that 
39.5% of those receiving food stamps are 
above this countrys legal poverty level.
Philadelphia  Hit by its third transit 
strike in six years, Philadelphia, and its 
400,000 daily commuters, were stranded this 
week by a walkout of bus, trolley and sub
way workers. The major disputes center on 
disagreements over part-time hiring and 
layoffs.
Busing  T.H. Bell, Secretary of Educa
tion, said this week that he does not oppose a 
federal law that would prohibit busing as a 
desegregation tool. Bell emphasized his origain followed on the heels of a 2.9% 
mance is the most important problem in 
American schools today. -
World
U.S.S.R.  Moscows Tass news agency 
has announced that the Soviet Union has 
launched a manned capsule carrying two 
cosmonauts. Tass indicated that this cap
sule was part of a new generation in 
Soviet space travel aided by computerized 
operation. This latest manned launch is 
scheduled to link-up with the orbiting 
Salyut 6 space station.
IranThe Ayatollah Khomeini is hold
ing meetings this week between Iranian 
President Bani-Sadr and the Fundementalist leaders who have charged Bani-Sadr with 
abuse of his power.
El Salvador  This week about 1500 gov
ernment troops, supported by tanks and 
artillary, have launched a major offensive 
against approximately 15 guerrilla strongh
olds in the eastern hills of El Salvador. In the 
countrys three largest cities, San Salva
dor, Santa Ana and San Miguel, 47 people 
were killed during the past weekend. Most 
of these victims, authorities reported, were 
shot by soldiers enforcing a dusk-to-dawn 
curfew.
Moscow  Ballet performer Yuri Stopanov, according to witnesses, was abducted 
in Moscow as he headed for a meeting with 
an American reporter. Stepanov earlier said
that he was being forced, by police threats of 
violence and confinement in an asylum, to 
repudiate his brief defection to the U.S. in 
1980!
Business
Money-Market Funds  Despite growing 
pressures for legislative restrictions on 
Money-Market mutual funds, assets of these 
funds rose $3.17 billion, or 3% in die week 
ending March 11 th. The funds are now run
ning at a record level of $101.21 billion in 
assets.
Retail Sales  In February, retail sales 
rose an adjusted 0,.9% to $85.83 billion. This 
gained followed on the heels of a 2.9% 
increase in January.
compiled by Reed Vickerman
BEFORE YOU 
PLAN YOUR FUTURE.
TALK TO DRAPER.
The Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc. is a world 
renowned, non-profit research center that concerns itself 
with solving problems of national stature. Because of our 
close proximity to the MIT campus, Draper is able to 
provide a work environment that bridges academia and 
industry.
Well be interviewing in your area on the date listed 
below. If youre involved in Electrical Engineering, Me
chanical Engineering, Aero/Computer Science, Optics, 
Mathematics or Applied Physics, Draper wants to talk to 
you. If youre looking for an atmosphere with a free flow 
of ideas where you can even work toward an advanced 
degree, explore the career opportunities at Draper. For a 
future you can be proud of.
The Charles Stark 
Draper Laboratory, Inc.
will be at 
Carnegie-Mellon University
rn
Ap'
See your Placement Office to arrange for an oncampus interview, or send your resume to: Dr. Daniel E. 
Gladkowski, Dept. C, The Charles Stark Draper Labora
tory, Inc., 555 Technology Square, Cambridge, MA 02139.
1^ The Charles Staric 1^Th Draper laboratory Inc.
We are an equal opportunity/affirmative action employer. M/F
THANK YOU!
Student Senate would like to extend a special thanks to the members of the Election Board who sacrificed their time, without pay, to make this last election such a success
THANKS TO:
Beth Bangor, Chairman
David Ableman 
Jane Caras
Deidre Dennis 
Paul Kohlbrenner
Carol Marble
funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

March 19, 1981The TartanPage 5
Students protest mail removal by housing office
Over Christmas break, while students 
were away from the dorms for three weeks, 
the Housing Office discarded most incom
ing second and third class mail. This delib
erate removal angered many students and 
raised questions of legality, and three CMU 
freshmen have decided to take action.
The students, Monica Cellio, Eric Shulman, and Scott Safier, felt that the actions of 
the Housing Office were illegal, so they con
tacted the postal inspection office in Pitts
burgh. According to Cellio, the inspector 
who responded to their complaint was 
amazed that they (the Housing Office) 
admitted to the acitons. This comment was 
in response to the fact that Marcia Klosinski 
of the Housing Office freely acknowledged 
the removal. The inspector also stated that 
he felt sure the mail removal was illegal,
Cellio said.
At this time no effort has been made to 
press charges. The group states that its 
objective is not to bring about a lawsuit, 
which would be lengthy and expensive.
The main objective is not to attack the 
university, but to prevent this sort of thing
CMU banking
New money machine may be installed in Skibo
from happening again,Shulman said. 
Something like a permanent restraining 
order preventing CMU from disposing of 
any mail sent to persons currently bound by 
a housing contract would be appropriate.
The students decided to take action 
shortly after the release of a Tartan article 
which described the situation. According to 
the article, Klosinski stated that mail was 
thrown away for two reasons. The first is 
that the Housing Office does not have the 
resources to store three weeks worth of mail 
The second reason is that, according to Klo
sinski, students are not legally residents dur
ing the three-week break, and so the removal 
was legal. It is the latter point that is the 
target of most of the objections, according to 
the group.
The article also stated that a new plan for 
mail delivery was being developed for next 
year even before the students called the pos
tal inspector. Asked why they still registered 
the complaint, Cellio stated that there is 
currently nothing requiring them to change 
their policy. Students take it on good faith
that they will change it, but good faith isnt 
enough.
The students claim that the Housing 
Office is under investigation, but Klosinski 
denies this. They called us once, she 
stated, but we dont know anything about 
an investigation. Klosinski also reaffirmed 
Housings plans for a new policy next year.
All three students indicated that they 
would be willing to work with the Housing 
Office in developing a new policy.
Cellio stated that she felt the group repres
ents the views of most CMU students. Most
Tuition committee:
probably wouldnt do anything about it, but 
I think the support is there,L she said.
The students do not plan to go to court 
unless it is absolutely necessary, Cellio 
said, but they w ill seek some written guaran
tee that the Housing Office will not repeat 
such actions. The group claims the Hous
ing Office violated students civil rights, the 
housing contract, and the law. The students 
are willing to involve the ACLU, legal 
authorities, and any other possibilities that 
might present themselves to obtain that 
written guarantee.
Education costs to rise
by David Lechner
Have you ever had to wait in line for ten 
minutes at the CMU Mellon Banking 
Machine? Its not an unlikely event here 
since the CMU machine is the largest 
volume machine in the Pittsburgh area. 
According to Frederick A. Rogers, Director 
of Business and Finance at CMU, help is on 
the way.
The Mellon machine has been a tremend
ous success here and Mellon Bank has done 
a great job serv icing the demand on campus, 
according to Rogers. It is generally believed, 
however, that a second machine on campus 
from another bank would create competi
tion and thus increase the quality of serv ice.
Dollar Savings Bank is the chosen con
tender, and is currently filing applications 
with banking authorities to open a branch
machine here.
Dollar Savings has branches in Shadyside
and Squirrel Hill. The bank can directly
deposit CMU paychecks and offers 
checking.
Rogers said that although Baker Hall was 
considered as a location for the machine, it 
will probably be placed in Skibos main 
lobby. He also said that there is general 
support for the additional machine within 
the administration.
continued from page 1
figured in terms of the rate of inflation. This 
years (1980-81) tuition of $4700 was raised 
by $700 for the 1981-82 term to $5400; that 
decision was made last March. Since the 
predicted rate of inflation is 12-15%, the tui
tion for 1982-83 should range from $6000 to 
$6200. However, the Committee discussed 
figures ranging from $5900 to $6900.
Reasons for the increase are summarized 
as: keeping the salaries of CMU professors 
competitive with other Universities salar
ies, keeping up with the cost of maintanence 
and repairs, and covering the cost of living 
for union workers.
Tuition is decided in advance because the 
early notice ideally allows parents to budget 
for the succeeding academic year, and it per
mits full cost disclosure to new applicants.
The Tuition Committee discused the pos
sibility of losing students because of the 
raise; however, admission statistics show7 
that as of March 1, 1981 applications to 
CMU have totalled 4101. This is the largest 
number of applicants on file in CMUs his
tory, and it is for a year that will see a $700 
tuition raise. Thus, the high tuition failed to 
scare away students, at least this year.
It was brought up that one fear of raising 
the tuition is the possibility of creating an 
institution that services only one class of 
parents-the rich. William Elliot, vicepresident ot enrollment planning, and Wal
ter Cathie, director of financial aid, pointed 
out that a tuition boost will not effect the 
number of financial aid students that CMU 
will be accepting. Also, the students who 
will not be eligible for aid under Reagans 
newr plan will be able to take out student 
loans.
Senate
continued from page 1
Furthermore, we urge that the university 
take the following actions:
1. Remove the recent 3% increase and jus
tify any increase in the proposed 1981-1982
rates.
2. Re-evaluate the financing of capital 
improvement projects in a more equitable 
manner.
3. Receive the approval of the students 
well in advance of the housing deposit due 
date for any proposed increases in housing 
room rates.
4. The above principles shall serve as a 
guideline for all housing rates and policies 
that would apply to fraternities and sorori
ties as well as dormatories.
Pregnant?
And you didnt mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
A CAREER THE CHIPS
If youre planning a career in Engineering, Finance, Marketing, 
or Data Processing, we know youre seriously considering the 
semiconductor industry. Wed like to offer a little piece of advice: 
Choose the company that will give you the best opportunities right 
away. Choose AMD.
Advanced Micro Devices started out a little over a decade ago 
with eight of the best people in the industry and a dream. Today, 
were at the top of the integrated circuit field with 9,000 of the 
bestand friendliestpeople, $225 million in sales, and over 800 
products. Were still growing fast, with the best career opportunities 
to put you right in the chips with us.
On-CampusInterviews
Friday, March 20
Make an appointment today with your Career Planning & Place
ment Center. Or, for more information on AMD, call Sally Hazard 
TOLL FREE at (800) 538-8450. (In California, call (408) 732-2400, 
extension 2799.) Advanced Micro Devices, 901 Thompson Place, M/S 
57, Sunnyvale, California 94086. An equal opportunity employer.
1 Advanced Mkro Devices

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanMarch 19, 1981
Kreskin amazes crowd with mind-reading, magic
photo by Robert Zusman
The Amazing Kreskin
by Monica J. Cellio
The Amazing Kreskin, world famous 
mentalist, astonished hundreds of people in 
the Ballroom last week with feats of mindreadiijg, telepathy and what some call 
hypnosis. Observers saw' everything from 
magic to murder accusations.
Kreskin opened his show with some 
slight-of-hand magic, joining three rings 
borrowed from the audience in a chain that 
was passed around the audience to disbeliev
ing students. After some joke-telling meant 
to arouse concern in the rings owners, he 
separtated and returned the rings.
Shortly after this a member of the 
audience was asked to choose a card from a 
deck which Kreskin never touched. Kreskin 
successfully determined which card it had 
been.
Im not a psychic; Kreskin told his 
audience, I never claimed to be. But we 
cant say that something doesnt exist 
because it is unusual.
Kreskin claims that people absorb infor
mation better if they stimulate the imagina
tion. To prove this, he asked each member 
of the audience to mentally recreate an 
image from the past. After this exercise he 
asked everyone to blank his mind, and think 
erf an odd number between one and fifty 
with two different numerals in it.
It appeared that Kreskin had projected his 
thoughts on everyone else, because four 
fifths of the audience thought of the same 
number he did. Kreskin claims that the fact 
that schools fail to stimulate the imagina
tion is one of the problems with education 
today.
Actually only ten numbers between one 
and fifty have different odd digits.
Kreskin demonstrated his mind reading 
skills farther when he asked each member of 
the audience to write down anything that 
was significant to that person-names, dates, 
places, and so on. Later in the show he 
began writing down thoughts that entered 
his mind, correctly identifying peoples 
phone numbers, addresses, and friends. He 
seemed to be most proficient with numbers 
and sometimes had trouble with other 
images.
The anticipated highlight of the show 
occurred when Kreskin handed his pay
check for the evenings show to four people 
randomly chosen from the audience. After 
Kreskin and two escorts left the room, the 
four deliberated and hid the check. Kreskin 
announced that if he could not locate the 
check he would forfeit it, a traditional stunt 
of his show.
When Kreskin returned, he took a hankerchief from his pocket and held one end of it,
asking one of the four people who hid the 
check to take the other end. He then pro
ceeded to wander around the room, first run
ning and then slowing as he apparently 
became confused. After a few minutes he 
asked a second person to come forward and 
take up the hankerchief, trying to accept 
new thoughts.
Kreskin remained in one section of the 
audience for several minutes and then asked 
for the third person. With this person he was 
able to successfully locate the check, which  
had been hidden behind an exit sign above 
one of the doors. The entire search lasted 
nine minutes.
Kreskin stated that he has only failed to 
find his check nine times, and last year alone 
he ndfte 464 appearances. Everything has 
always been straight, Kreskin claimed.
Many people believe that Kreskin uses
hypnosis for part of his act. Kreskin, how
ever, very firmly claims that this is not true. 
I respect any mans opinion, he said, but 
I am not a hypnotist. Kreskin once shared 
an office with a psychologist, and he told his 
audience that it became obvious to me that 
I could do the same things he did without 
hypnosis.
Kreskin discounts the existence of hypno
sis, and has offered a $50,000 prize to anyone 
who can scientifically prove that hypnosis 
exists. There is not one shred of evidence 
that hypnosis exists, Kreskin said. Accord
ing to him, nothing changes when people 
supposedly go into trances; their brain 
waves and other vital signs remain the same 
At one point in his career Kreskin was 
publicly accused of using hypnosis by a Dr 
Hollen. Kreskin sued the man, demanding 
continued on page 20Mayor speaks at CMU
Caliguiri stresses change
by Joe Ihnat
Mayor Richard Caliguiri, in a recent 
speech at Mellon Institute, stressed the role 
of research and development (R&D) in the 
future of Pittsburghs economy. The mayor 
spoke at the February 25 meeting of the 
Mellon Institute Senior Fellows.
The mayor noted the recent population 
loss of the Northeast to the sunbelt. But 
since 90 million people still live in the Nor
theast, he said it is important for businesses 
to reinvest there.
Mayor Caliguiri stated that Pittsburghs 
Renassaince II means more than just put
ting up new buildings; it means attracting 
new businesses as well. He noted that the 
new convention center is bringing new life 
to Pittsburghs tourist trade. He said that the 
city will be taking out full-page ads in var
ious national publications (such as the Wall 
Street Journal) to tout the virtues of the city 
of Pittsburgh.
The mayor also stated that in the Nor
theast, Pittsburghs professional commun
ity was second only to Boston. He added, 
Weve got to make the corporations know 
that there is a wealth of talent here.
The mayor stressed the importance of 
R&D; he said that R&D could pick up the 
slack' ot the slowing heavy industries (such 
as steel). He cited new technology areas such 
as synfuels (Gulf Oil) and robotics (CMU), 
and hoped they fared better than the emerg
ing mass-transit technologies of ten years 
ago, of which he said, We let it getaway. 
Caliguiri said he would like to see 
Pittsburgh-based companies (such as U.S. 
Steel, Westinghouse, PPG and Alsoa) set
for Pittsburghs future
aside funds for R&D. He noted that the neces
sary capital might be hard to come by, but 
the investment has to be made. He said this 
would help to change Pittsburghs image 
from that of a smoky city to a profes
sional city.
He added that continuing support for 
R&D can bring new life to the city, and 
once that happens, people will be coming 
back to Pittsburgh.
The mayor stated that there is no reason 
why we cant open up new doors and new 
vistas. He believes that now the time is right 
because now the correct attitude exists 
toward this goal. He stated that the products 
of R&D were living conditions better not 
only for Pittsburgh, but for everyone.
Smith's campaign 
expenses listed
According to the Student Senate Election 
Rules, the winner of the presidential elec
tion is required to publish an itemized list of 
his campaign expenses. In compliance with 
this rule, the expenses of Steven L. Smith, 
Student Government President, follow:
NUMBERITEMCOST
200Posters$13.20
500Flyers13.30
500Tabletents17.36
l/2galPaint11.99
12T-shirts15.80
TOTAL$71.65
Summer Job?
The Summer Studies Office of Camegie-Mellon University is looking to hire a staff of resident counselors to coordinate and supervise a student-life program for high school students attending the Advanced Placement/Early Admission, and Fine Arts Pre-College Programs. Counselors must be energetic and willing to live and work closely with the programs participants. Compensation includes room and board for the six-week session, June 25 through August 9. Applications, along with the detailed job description, are available through Mike Steidel in the Summer Studies Office, first floor of Warner Hall.
At Great "X" we're looking ahead with something that will keep you coming back again and again.
Hair cutters that listen.
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Blow)12 00
Mon. Edit W*d. 10-7 
Thur, ftrl. 104
Sat. 9-6
COLORINO
297 Atsveetl Street 
Acre five Btreet from 
Oohlond Post Office 
417-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
2500
No Appointments

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Foosball: an entire society 
with a mutual addiction
/ .,
by Kris Scigliano
The yellow team is hot today. Stuck at 
midfield, the ball is casually worked bade 
and forth as the yellow maintains control 
and waits for an opening. Deftly, a yellow 
midfielder flic ks the ball between the oppos
ing midfielders to a wing waiting down
tick!. The wing pauses, then pushes the ball 
to the center. CRACK! The white streak 
passes between the struggling fullbacks and 
goalie, then disappears beneath the field.
What sport is this? Indoor Soccer? Field 
Hockey? Street Hockey? Nope, the sport is 
actually a game, requiring skill, concentra
tion, practice, and most importantly a pock
etful of quarters-foosball.
Man, we cant let dis stuff go by, We 
gotta do something about dis -Im gonna 
go crassy (Crazy)!
Someones cornin between me and my 
foozball. This is serious business here; We 
gotta do something about this. It was the 
day after Reagans Inauguration, the hos
tages had just been released, two of the 
toughest (as in nicest) looking women on 
campus were in line at the grill, and so far 
neither Tony nor Francisco had bothered to 
say hello. Some punk had stolen a rod from 
the foosball table (What could be more 
important?). I could not help wonder if the 
owner of the table was an upset as these 
fanatics were. Someone who had quit smok
ing for the first time would have not been
more nervous than these two addicts in 
withdrawal.
Ihe most unique quality of the game is 
the jx>wer it has over people; Only months 
ago f(x>sball was some bizzare past time the 
locals had in North Carolina, Virginia 
Beach, and in Florida. Nowadays I cannot 
walk by the table without playing justone game.
In Nags Head, North Carolina is a placed 
called the "Foosball Palace. Nextdoor at 
Peabodys they sell stenciled t-shirts of four 
people bent over a tournament soccer table. 
The caption simply read, Foozin. F<x>zin 
had no significance then, but now the word 
embodies the total immersion players have 
in the sport: Foozin.
Foosball is a very personal game. The 
personality each player projects into those 
plastic men is amazing to see. How they 
pass, how they set-up, how they shoot (in 
shooting there are about ten styles with 
either hand) differs with everyone. The play
ers have more rituals with the rods than 
major league batters at the plate: spinning 
and working the handles in and out to give
themselves just the right feel for the drop.
/ .
The hot-hands here know each other bet
ter than hustlers in any small town pool hall 
do. If someone new comes around the table 
on Monday, by Wednesday everyone knows 
who he is and what his shots are. There is an 
entire society of people who know each
Forfeiting quarter after quarter, foosball
other only from their mutal addiction 
Francisco and Roberto, Eric and Rick, Fret! 
and his buddy, the grad student form D.C., 
the kid from Seattle, Mark, Larry, B.K., and 
the king, Tony. Teams are ranked by who 
they am beat and what shots they excel at.
On Friday afternoons, everyone shows up 
for the weekly showdown. Ncx>ne appoints 
times to play, we just appear there, quarters 
go up and only the strong survive. In 
unison, Roberto and Francisco spew stratgey (or something) in Spanish, the Italians 
discuss each others mother in terms most 
men fight over, and the rest of us watch 
Tony blasting the ball through the back of 
the plywood goal. The only event to even 
momentarily stop the action is some fox 
going into, out of, or through the grill. Inev
itably, one of the Italians shoot while the
photo by Doug Ellis 
fanatics play on.
other is thus distracted and it is back to 
business: playing, trading insults, and scop
ing. We may have a sexist attitude toward 
the game but like Tony says, They dont 
call it the sport of kings for nothin. It can 
go on for hours like this: set-up shoot, drop 
another ball, shove in another quarter. I 
wonder what the people who sit in the bidcony above the table think when they hear 
the sounds of insults and table chatter, punc
tuated by the plastic ball slamming off of the 
back of the goal. Nothing else is like it.
Everyone eventually drifts off.
Francisco says he has a date, or Tony 
leaves to move his car (before the police tow 
it.) We walk away, backs aching from being 
bent over the table-pockets empty; Winners 
and losers, waiting for the next game or 
talking about that shot...
Saturday, April 4SARC sponsors small business conference
ISSUES IN BUSINESS TODAY IV
SMALL BUSINESSES AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP 
SATURDAY APRIL 4,1981
A BUSINESS CONFERENCE SPONSORED BY THE STUDENT-ALUMNI RELATIONS COUNCIL OF CMU
SCHEDULE OF EVENTS
TIMELOCATIONSUBJECTSPEAKER
8:30  9:15 amGS'ALOBBYREGISTRATION AND COFFEE
9:15  9:30 amGSIA AUDITORIUMWELCOME AND INTRODUCTION
9:30- 10:30 amGSIA AUDITORIUMADVANTAGES AND DRAWBACKS TO AN ENTREPRENEURIAL CAREER - AN OVERVIEW
MAXWELL H. CONNAN E'39.
10:45  11:45 amTO BE ANNOUNCEDGOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AND TAXATIONPHIL F. SAUEREISEN
TBAFINANCING - BORROWING AND RAISING EQUITY
STEPHEN J. BANKS
TBADETERMINING VIABILITYDWIGHT M. BAUMANN
12:00  1:15 pmSKIBO FACULTY DINING ROOMLUNCH
1 30 ,-2:30 pmGSIA AUDITORIUMMANAGEMENT AND PLANNING 
TECHNIQUES
DR RICHARD M CYERT
2:45  3:45 pmTBAPERSONAL MANAGEMENT AND MOTIVATION
KATHRYN S ATMAN, Ph D & JAY W ATMAN E 49
TBAMARKETING TECHNIQUESROBERT REDINGER
, * ~TBAKEEPING THE BUSINESS GOINGELMER J. COX E 48
by Kathy McGinley
ATT controls Americas telephone lines, 
Coca-Cola has interests ranging from steam 
boilers to Minute Maid orange juice, Pepsico owns not only Pepsi, but Frito Lay, 
Pizza Hut, and who knows what else. Proc
tor and Gamble manufactures Tide, Cheerthe list is endless-and Clorox, which was a 
P&rG product until a 1967 court ordered 
divestiture; Clorox is now following in its 
parent companys footsteps by buying out 
such products as Kingsford Charcoal and 
Hidden Valley Ranch Dressing.
Although these and other companies 
seem to get bigger and more diverse at the 
expense of the smaller manufacturer, small 
business continues to fight back and even 
thrive in America. In fact, small businesses 
constitute 43% of GNP and employ 58% of 
the U.S. work force. In addition, over half of 
the important technological innovations 
can be atuibuted to small businesses.
Even more impressive is the fact that, 
between 1969 and 1976, while employment 
growth for big business remained at a stand
still, small businesses were outproducing 
government 2 to l in job creation.
Despite the far-reaching power of big bus
iness, small businesses remain a vital part of 
die U.S. economy. More and more, jxople 
are turning to small businesses as a viable 
source of livelihood.
The Student Alumni Relations Council 
(SARC) is aware of the importance of small 
businesses, for many CMU alumni either 
own or are employed by all types of small 
businesses. SARC is responding to the grow 
ing interest in small businesses by hosting a 
one-day conference covering all aspects of 
setting up and maintaining a small busi
ness. The conference will be held on Satur
day, April 4, from 8:30-4:00, and will feature 
such speakers as President Cyert and 
Dwight Baumann, the director of CMUs 
Center for Entrepreneurial Development, as 
well as several successful entrepreneurs.
The complete schedule of events accom
panies this article. Die fee for the conferenc e 
if $4.00; this inc ludes lunc h and an informal 
reception following the conference. I4ie res
ervation deadline is Tuesday, March 31. 
More information am be obtained at the 
Skibo Info Desk or at the SARC Office, 5th 
floor, Warner Hall.
Summer apartment hunting
4 00- 5:00pmSKIBO FACULTY DINING BOOM RECEPTION (INFORMAL)
designed by Heidi Fiesc hko
by Jenny Donaldson
Whether youre taking off this summer to 
begin your first full-time job or just a 
summer job away from the area, one of your 
most difficult tasks may be finding a place to 
stay at the right price. However, if youre 
willing to put in some time and effort, you 
may be able to find a place to suit both your 
tastes and your budget.
Although apartments are the most com
mon living arrangements, there are others 
you may want to consider: hotels and motels 
that rent weekly and monthly, YMCAs and
YWCAs, a room in someones home, or even 
renting or buying a home. Some employers 
may even help you make living arrangements, temporarily or permanently. If you 
know who you'll lie working for, lxj sure to 
ask about living arrangements.
Finding an apartment (and I use this term 
to include any living arrangement) can 
sometimes be a harrowing experience if you 
dont j>lan well or if you wait until the last 
minute to start looking. It is always best to 
be guaranteed a place to stay before you go 
continued on pag g

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanMarch 19, 1981
Comm. Week 5: Grad schools, libraries, enrollment
The hierarchy of administration of the following campus offices, programs and centers are 
listed in decending order:
Section 1 falls under the auspices of Senior Vice-President and Provost Richard Van Horn, 
whose other duties are CFA, and H&SS; and all administrative divisions, which will be listed 
next week.
Section 2 falls under the auspices of Vice President for Academic Affairs, Edward Schatz, 
whose other duties are CIT, MCS, Robotics, and the divisions listed under enrollment in 
Section 3.
Next week will also include those offices who answer directly to President Cyert. 
President Cyert 
Athletics and Phys. Ed.
Development 
Public Relations 
Student Affairs
Senior Vice President and Provost,Richard Van Horn
CFA
H&SS
Computing and Planning 
GSIA
Hunt Institute 
SUPA
University Libraries
Administrative Services
Business and Finance
Vice President and Provost,Edward Schatz
CIT
MCS
Academic Affairs
Enrollment:Vice President for Enrollment, William Elliott 
Section 1
Computing and Planning
Office of the Vice Provost
Vice Provost: Douglas Van Houweling, X2122
Computation Center
Acting Dir. of Comp. Ctr.: Thomas Bajzek, X2637, SCH 5222 
.Acting Dir. of Hrdwre Sys: Randall Gross, X2635, SCH "5119 
Dir. Software Sys: J. Ray Scott, X2642, SCH 5130k
Dir. of Operations: Kenneth Burner, X2641, SCH 5103 
Dir. of User Services: Charles Augustine, X2649, SCH 5111 
Admin. Asst: William McFarland, X2640, SCH 5120 
ATP Opera tior: Leeanne Lawlor, X2634,'*SCH 5210 
Accounts Coordinator: Deborah Balkovec, X2639, SCH 5216 
Planning Office
Dir. of Planning and^Fed Comp: Michael Baker, X2122, WH 313
Graduate School of Industrial Administration
Dean: Robert Kaplan, X2265, GSIA 101 
Assoc. Dean: Robert Atkin, X2271, GSIA 104 
Assoc. Dean, Dir. Exec. Ed.: Jerome Foster, X2304, GSIA 139 
Head of Economics: Dennis Epple, X2289, GSIA 226 
Assoc. Head of Economics: Thomas Rmer, X2292, GSIA 321 
GSIA Undergrad. Pgms.Coord.: Mary Ann ONan, X2294, GSIA 220 
Assoc. Dir. AMS Graph. Comm. Mgt.: Ned Evans, X2313, GSIA 203 
Dir. of Admissions: Victoria Falco, X2272, GSLA 125 
Dir. of Placement: Ed Mosier, X2277, GSIA 126 
Assoc. Dir. of Plcmt Sc St. Div.: Janis Peterson, X3092, GSIA 127 
Financial Admin.: David Wagner, X3687, GSIA 129 
Coord, of Comp. Serv.:David Woolridge, X3091; GSIA 122 
Asst, to Dean 8c Comp. Serv.: Neal Binstock, X2279, GSIA 128 
Admin. Assts: Jean Patterson, X2282, GSIA 210 
Beverly Specht, X3685, GSIA 117
Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation
Director: Robert Kiger, X2434, HI 
Asst, to Director: T.D. Jacobsen, X2438, HI 
Curator of Art: John Brindle, X2440, HI 
Archivist: Michael T. Steiber, X2437, HI
School of Urban and Public Affairs
Dean: Otto Davis, X2159, MMC 107
Assoc. Dean: Norman Johnson, X2162, MMc 104
Asst. Dean for Students: Mary Kuiper, X3841, MMC 106
Asst, to the Dean: Sam Green, X3840, MMC 110
Head Soc. Sci,: Patrick Larky, X2833, PH 208J
Dir. Urb. Sys. Inst.: Alfred Blumstein, X2175, MMC 204
ABORTION
 free pregnancy tests
 confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
 non-profit medical facility
continued from page 7
on your way. Begin checking out different 
sources of information several months in 
advance. If you are fortunate enough to 
know someone who lives in or near the area 
where youll be working, he or she may be a 
big help. Jf you dont know anyone in the 
area, dont worry . There are places you can 
go to and people you can contact to find an 
apartment. The Chamber of Commerce 
in the city where youll be working may be 
your best source of information about aparti 
ments and other living arrangements. The 
personnel there can also direct you to real 
estate agencies, motels, youth hostels, 
YMCAs and YWCAs, and other places that 
may provide housing. Real estate agencies 
can be very helpful, but beware. Before 
turning over any fees to an agency, have the 
citys Better Business Bureau check the 
agenc y to make sure it is a financ ially stable 
and trustworthy business. I once paid a 
$40 fee to an agency for its services only to 
return a month later and find that the bust- 
ness had folded.)
If there are any colleges in or near the city, 
it would lxa gocxl idea to contact then 
campus and off-campus housing offices. 
Find out it the collegtvrvnls dorms, fraterni
ties, or apartments on a temjx)rary basis. If 
not, someone there may be able to direct you 
continued on page 9
CHOOSING A CAREER OPPORTUNITY?
The PRIME Engineering Team, 
a highly innovative group which relies 
on the contributions of bright new talent 
and experienced technical staff alike.
Prime Computer designs, manufactures, 
and sells medium to large scale interactive 
minicomputers in the end user market. In 
an incredibly competitive market, our people 
and our products have made Prime one of the 
fastest growing computer companies in the 
world.
Now more than ever. Prime Computer is 
the company to join for technical challenge 
and professional advancement in Engineer
ing Research and Development as well as 
Marketing, Finance, and Manufacturing.
We provide the tools necessary to support 
and enhance your special talents 
and skills.
If you are expecting a 
degree in CS, CE. EE. or ME. 
please arrange to see our 
Engineering Research 
and Development 
representative on 
campus this Spring 
or send a resume to: 
Chari s Cohen, Prime 
Computer, Inc., 500 Old 
Connecticut Path, 
Framingham, MA 01701, 
Dept. R16. Prime is an 
Affirmative Action 
Employer, seeking 
outstanding individuals.
PRIMEComputer
THE ONE YOUVE 
BEEN WAITING FOR.

---------------------------------------------------

March 19, 19$1The TartanPage 9
Dir. Emdec: Harry Faulk, X2195, MMC 113
Dir. of Network: Mary Ann Lauffer, X3542, MMC 113
Dir. Placmnt. 8c Admission: William Stahler, X2164, MMC 110
Dir. for Fiscal Mgmt.: Patricia Tanner, X2161, MMC 104A
University Libraries
Audio-Visual Services
Director: Stephanie Evancho, X2430, HL Conco.
Operations Mgr.: Eugene Hastings II, X2430, HL Conco.
Office Supervisor: Lydia Stepita, X2430, HL Conco.
Engineering and Science Library
Sup. Circulation: Irene Cromley, X2426, SCH 4406 
Comp. Sci. Librarian: Earl Mounts, X2426, SCH 4404 
Hunt Library
Dir. of Univ. Libraries: Thomas Michalak, X2447, HL
Assoc. Dir. Univ. Libraries: Ann DeKlerk, X2446, HL
Supvr. Ref. Sec.: Frances Hardie, X2448, HL
Head Tech. Proc. Dept.: Ruth Ann Marshall, X2448, HL Tech.
Head Readers Srvc.: Marilyn Albright X2442, HL
Fine Arts Librarian: Helen Lingelbach, X2451, HL
Music Librarian: Myrtle Nim, X2452, HL
Fine and Rare Books Librarian: Anne Skoog, X2451, HL
Mellon Institute Library
Librarian: Mary Jane Volk, X3171, MI 427
Section 2
Office of Vice President and Provost 
Provost, VP Acad. Affairs: Edward Schatz, X2053, WH 607 
Acad. Safety Officer: Francis Bomba, X3221, MI 852 
Admin. Asst.: Frances Gibson, X2053, WH 608
Camegie-Mellon Action Program
Director: Ronald Glenn, X2150, MMC 410
Asst. Dir.: Keith McDonald, X2150, MMC 410 
Admin. Asst.: Doris Haines, X2150 MMC 410 
Field Rep.: Cordell Sloan, X3638, MMC 410
Faculty Senate
Exec. Officer: Nancy Janiszewski, X2820, BH 152 
Upward Bound
Director: Everett Tademy, X2155, MMC 409
Vice President for Enrollment
Office of Vice President for Enrollment
Vice President: William Elliott, X2082, WH 101
Admissions
Dir. CMU Alumni Admissions Prog.: Barbara Ann Richardson, X2082, WH 107
Assoc. Dir.: Sanford Rivers,X2084, WH 106
Asst. Dir.: Deborah Mall, X2084, WH 103
Dir. Summer Studies: Michael Steidel, X2085, WH 111
Admin. Asst.: Annie Kurpiewski, X2082, WH 108
Career Services and Placement
Director: Dennis Ryan, X2064.WH 19 
Asst. Directors: Mary Louise Haugh, X2064, WH 19 
Robert Nelson, X2064, WH 19
Financial Aid
Director: Walter Cathie, X2068, WH 216 
Assoc. Dir.: Imogene Campbell, X2068, WH 214 
Asst. Directors: Linda Damico, X2068, WH 212 
Ann Ruddy, X2068, WH 215 
Paul Smith, X2068, WH 212
Office of the Registrar
Registrar: Harry Whitehead, X2004, WH 20'
Asst. Registrar: William Rogers, WH 201 
Asst, to Registrar: Theresa Blasik, WH 201
Ask the right questions
continued from page 8
elsewhere for help. Remember: the more 
contacts you can establish early, the better. 
Be friendly widi the people you talk to even 
if they cant help directly. They may be able 
to help you in some other way.
Professors and students from school may 
have lived at one dme in the area where 
you plan to work and may be able to give 
you some advice on housing as well as jobs. 
Again, talk to people, make contacts, ask 
around. Chances arc youll find someone 
who can help.
If you can arrange to get an edition of the 
citys newspaper or find one in the local or 
college library, look for apartments in the 
want ads. Even if you dont find anything 
right away, youll become familiar with pri
ces and availability of housing. You may 
also find names of real estate agencies or 
motels that you can write to or call for infor
mation. If you find something that interests 
you, call up as soon as possible. Apartments 
in resort areas and large cities may go like 
hotcakes. If you call only to find that the 
place has already been rented, inquire about 
other houses or apartments that the landlord 
may have. You may even establish a contact 
with this person. I cant emphasize enough 
the importance of having contacts when 
looking for apartments and jobs.
After youve found a place that interests 
you, get as much information about it as 
you can. If you live close enough, or if at all 
possible, try to see the place or get someone 
you can trust to check it over for you. Find 
out as many details as possible:
How many rooms are there, how many
windows? Does rent include gas, electric, 
water? Is there a phone, shower, bathtub? Is 
it furnished? If so, with what? Are there pots, 
pans, dishes, a refrigerator, stove, table,? Is it 
carpeted? Air-conditioned? What about 
shelf and closet space? How much is rent? Is 
a security depost required? Is there a lease? If 
so, for how long? Can I sub-let? Will the 
landlord take care of maintenance? How 
much will it cost to install a phone, to get 
utilities hooked up?
Make a list of everything you want to 
know. The list may be tedious, but by find
ing out all the details, you can better decide 
if the apartment is right for you.
When you begin looking for an apart
ment, talk to friends and others who have 
lived and worked away from home before. 
Theyll be able to give you plenty of advice.
continued on page 10
I SURVIVEDNow available in a 4-color design Enclose this coupon along with a
I SURVIVED
1
SKIBOCAFETERIA
SKIBO T-SHIRTSPrinted on a white shirt with red trim, check for $6.00 per shirt to:The T-Shirt Co. c/o Student Corp.Skibo 103 Campus Mail
Please allow three weeks for delivery. Offer expires April 3rd.
Name______________________,_Address. Tel. No.
Small Medium Large X Large
Dr. Marcus Bloch, 
LHY
President
Eastern School of Hypnotism
240 Rivington Street 
New York 2. N Y.
Discover the Many Summers of RIT
Study this summer at the place 
with an international reputation 
for excellenceRIT.
Choose from more than 200 courses in 
our colleges of Fine and Applied Arts,
Graphic Arts & Photography, General 
Studies, Science or Continuing Education.
Special courses this summer:
Motion Picture Workshop, two weeks at 
the University of Maine, three weeks at RIT 
(July 6-August 7)
PhotoCommunications Seminar, one week 
at RTFs Eisenhower College in the heart of 
the Finger Lakes (August 16-22)
Mail coupon for more informationp
Rochester Institute of Technology f 
Summer Session 
College of Continuing Education 
One Lomb Memorial Drive 
Rochester, NY 14623
call: (716) 475-2205
Dont Delay    
Summer at RIT 
begins June 2.
Name .
Address
City_____ State.........Zip

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanMarch 19, 1981
Below the surface
S. American machismo at expense of women's rights
by Luis Ball
The biggest international news event last 
week was the Reagan administrations 
announcement that it is sending military 
advisors to El Salvador to help the govern
ment there fight the guerillas. El Salvador, 
however, is a subject that has been exten
sively discussed in The Tartan lately. Thus, 
the column this week deals with one of the 
worlds most explosive issues, womens 
rights (yes guys, the girl next door may turn 
out to be a guerilla).
Seriously now, while the women of this 
country have been trying to achieve the pass
ing of the ERA and other measures that 
would result in more equality, the women 
of other countries are just beginning their 
fight for equal rights.
In Latin America, a region famous for the
machismo of its men, women have been 
especially active in striving for equality. 
Latin American women dont have to put 
up with veils or other absurdities found else
where, but, by American standards, they 
hav e had to put up with a lot. Venezuela is a 
case in point.
At first sight there seems to be no differ
ence between the rights of Venezuelan and 
American women. Women in business are 
not uncommon, and 46% of the countrys 
judges are women, including two justices of 
the Supreme Court. However, Venezuelan 
women have had to put up with gross 
inequalities until recently.
Venezuela is a democracy, and like most 
other South American countries, has only 
allowed women to vote since the late 1940s.
Until March 1980 the Penal Code stated that 
a man who killed an adulterous wife had 
committed no crime, while a woman who 
killed her adulterous husband was punisha
ble with 30 years in prison, the maximum 
sentence for a crime in Venezuela.
Now, Venezuelan women are sponsoring 
a bill in congress that would change the 
outdated Civil Code. Among other things, 
the Civ il Code (a group of laws dealing with 
marital matters) states that if a couple separ
ates by mutial agreement the father auto
matically gets the custody of the children. 
The Code also states that a woman who has 
custody of her children cannot leave the 
country unless she has a letter from her 
former husband authorizing her to do so. 
Furthermore, women, by law, do not have 
the same property rights that men have.
Delve into ATARIS High Tempo Technology 
in the fastest growing segment 
of the marketplace  electronic 
amusement games. Theres unlimited 
applications and variations and your 
conceptual creativity can 
, make it happen.
If you have visions of electronic wizardry in 
the industry where ATARI sets the pace in 
video programmables and coin-op video 
arcade products and an outstanding 
personal computer system  backed by a 
technical degree  consider for pure 
enjoyment an ATARI career.GRADUATES:
COMPUTER SCIENCE
(BS/MS)
Software opportunities in Assembly language, 
video games programming, and real-time 
microprocessor systems programming.
Minicomputer and/or microprocessor cursework 
or experience a plus in all opportunities.
On Campus 
Interviews
Tuesday, April 14
To schedule an appointment, 
contact your College Placement 
Office immediately.
ATARI'S dramatic growth and facilities ex
pansion tells the story as does record finan
cial success in 1980. Salaries & benefits are 
exceptional, including a Sabbatical Leave 
Policy which offers 7 weeks paid leave of 
absence after 7 years continuous service 
with ATARI.
Please send resume or contact Rich Stiller, 
Employment Department, ATARI, INC., P.O. 
Box 427, 1265 Borregas Ave., Sunnyvale, CA 
94086. (408) 745-2030. We are an equal op
portunity employer.
These matters are being debated in the 
Venezuelan congress right now. Fiery ora
tors give speeches for and against changes in 
the Civil Code, and, astonishingly for Amer
icans, no side seems to have a clear majority. 
In Venezuela it is not uncommon to see 
politicians doing what would be considered 
 political suicide in the U.S.-opposing 
womens rights. However, the women who 
support the changes do not consider them
selves women libbers or anything of the 
kind; they have staged no demonstrations or 
rallies. Most of them believe that equality 
before the law is as far as they can get in such 
a machista country.
To those of you who know I am a Vene
zuelan male and are wondering whose side I 
am on, I can only answer that i cant afford 
the risk of telling you.
Apt. hunting
continued from page 9
And if youre unable to find an apartment 
before you leave for you job, dont panic. 
You wont be the first. (Watch for tips in 
later Tartan articles on apartment hunting 
after youve arrived where youre going.) 
You should make every effort, though, to 
secure an apartment before you leave.
And if youre still having trouble finding 
that job, here are some tips on where you 
can look. The Career Placement Office is 
probably the most direct way of finding the 
job you want. You can also check bulletin 
boards on campus for information on 
employment opportunities. The bookstore 
may also have books related to both job and 
apartment hunting. The library is another 
good source of information on where jobs 
are, how and when to apply for different 
types of jobs, how to write resumes and 
application letters, etc. Many libraries also 
contain telephone directories and newspap
ers from major cities in case youre looking 
for company addresses or want ads. Then 
again, there are Chambers of Commerce and 
employment agencies located in or near the 
area where youd like to work. And ol 
course, if you take the initiative and make 
the right contac ts, finding ajob may lx* eas
ier than you think.
Stay tuned for future articles in The Tar
tan on topics such as travel options, finan
ces, what to take with you, and getting 
yourself established once you arrive. In the 
meantime, dont put it off any longer. Get a 
head start on finding that job and a place to 
stay. Its never tcx> scx>n to Ixgin looking.
ARTIST 
ENGINEERING 
DRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355 0444
OPEN SAT. 10to5P.M_
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS INC.
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
j ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
New Play Festival opens with three one acts
Scotch and Soda to produce Protege, an original musical
A rehearsal scene from Tribal Warfare by Bob Henry. Left to right: Director Lawrence 
Carra, Ray Schaub, Lori Herbison, and Michael Cook. Tribal Warfare played last 
night, and will show again on April 1.
playwrights at last heard an audiences reac
tion to their hours of laborous creative work. 
In A Partridge in a Pear Tree, Jeremy, a 
college senior about to graduate, sorts 
through the heap of garbage he has amassed 
through his college career. Each momento 
reminds him of another failure or another 
unrequited love. Ray Schaub is Jeremy, 
Pam Norris and Christy Lowery are the girl
friends, Harvey Friedman is a sensitive 
jock who befriends Jeremey and Victor 
Stein is an unseen dormmate.
John Wool and Eddie King act in the 
evenings centerpiece; Big and Little by 
John Horner. Wool plays Danny, a big man 
of few worlds and a quick temper, and King 
is Joey, a quick-talking, little discophile.
In the course of the play, the mens 
fears and phobias lead them to a violent and 
high-tempered confrontation.
The final play on the bill, Dum-de-dum 
de-dum-de-die features Pam Putch as 
woman who pays three eventful visits to a 
hospital. Her roomates, Gale Grate and 
Julie Ostrow, nurses, Ostrow and Katherine 
Haun, and doctor, Victor Stein, all contrib
ute to the very black humor of Currans 
play.
talking to the audience
James Rosenberg, the instructor of the 
graduate playwriting course, rijoderated a 
one-half hour question and answer session 
after the final play. Rosenberg rued the 
times that he has seen a play and had wanted 
to ask the playwright the meaning of some 
dialogue or plot twist, but the author was 
either dead or in another country .
The question and answer session, to be 
conducted after every play, is intended to 
give the playwrights immediate audience 
feed hack. ...
Most spectators, as well as the playw
rights, were interested in the boundaries of 
the playwrights role in the success or failure 
of a play. Whether a successful scene is 
attributable to the playwright, director or
actors was the concern of the session, as well 
as the entire festival.
Participating in the session were Rosen
berg, the playwrights, Roger Cox, the direc
tor of all three one acts and several of the 
evenings actors.
representative student bodies 
Brenda Meeks of the box-office reported 
an incredible student turnout for the 
opening night of the festival. Usually, open
ing nights audiences for Kresge productions 
are comprised of mostly patrons and staff. 
The newly established Bud Yorkin
awards will be given in a special ceremony 
on April 4, after a showing of the Festivals 
only musical, Finals Week by Jack Rowley. 
Yorkin has offered a total of 510,000 for the 
Festivals best playwrights and directors. 
These awards are already being humorously 
referred to as the Mels in honor of Mel 
SJiapiro, the head of the Drama 
Department.
All of the eleven plays in the festival will 
have played once before Spring Vacation 
and will repeat again beginning March 30.
Nova also befriends a bum-off-the street 
old man, who teahces her the tricks of the 
trade, and Juanita, a spicy Puerto Rican
actress.
The underlying themes of the play are 
very positive, says author Sylvestri. Protege 
shows much of the degredation and bitter 
competitiveness in the theater, but all of the 
characters have at least some redeeming 
qualities. The unity of the actors is also 
emphasized in Protege.
a blend of jazz and pop
Syivestris score, with lyrics by .Arthur 
Darrell Turner, is a blend of jazz and pop 
music bound to please even those with the 
most finicky taste, according to cast 
member Sara Drake. The score ranges from 
the lively One in a Million to the risque, 
torcher, Problems of Finding a Lover, 
which has become somewhat of a cast 
favorite.
she knows the score
The idea to compose a musical was a 
joke to start with. admits Sylvestri. A 
friend bet me that I couldnt write a musical, 
submit it and have it produced by Scotcha 
and Soda. So I submitted my ideas with two 
pieces of music and Protege was chosen for 
the 1981 Spring Musical.
Scotch and Soda has made revisions in the 
script and the musjc is in its final stage of 
orchestration. Most of the music is by Sylves
tri and Arthur Darrell Turner. Sylvestri is 
responsible for the conception and I did all 
the arrangements, explains Turner. 1
asked her to write a song for Kije, S'nSs 
1980 Spring Musical, which I had written 
most of the music for, and in return she 
asked me to work on Protege this year.
Music and composing is not new to Syl
vestri or Turner. Sylvestri, a voice major, 
toured Europe as a soloist in 1976 with the 
American Youth Symphony and has also 
traveled the east coast singing and dancing 
with the Bicentennial Commissions 13 
Originals Company. Currently, she is star
ring in Strauss Gypsy Baron at Duqesne. 
After college she hopes to pursue a career in 
Europe* as a professional operatic singer.
Turner is a sophomore majoring in compostion at CMU. Although exposed to 
music all his life, he decided to seriously 
consider composing during his senior year 
in high school when he wrote a few' songs 
for a variety show. His decision to study 
music ami/* from the encouragement he 
recieved from family and friends. He is aim
ing for a professional music career in New 
York.
Sylvestri says, What we are doing here is 
some thing special. To put on an original 
musical is a great accomplishment and to 
see these people put it all together on their 
own is fantastic. It provides an opportunity 
for students to share the work theyve done 
with an audience and have fun while doing 
it.
Protege will be* performed by Scotch and 
Soda on April 15,16.22,23,24 and 25.
The New Play Festival (NPF) is receiving 
considerable media attention from the Pitts
burgh area. The showcase at the Public 
Relations Department is stuffed wdth news
paper clippings about the New Play Festi
val. The coverage for the series is expected to 
go national by the end of the play series.
The three one acts showcased Monday 
Night were: A Partridge in a Pear Tree by 
Charles Waxberg, Big and Little by John 
Homer, and Dum-de-dum-de-dum-de-die 
by Ann Curran, all students in the drama 
departments playwriting program.
This festival affords a rare opportunity for 
the playwright to not only see his play pro
duced, but to participate with the director 
and actors in the plays actual 
concept ualiza tion.
Hidden in Monday Nights audience, the
The cast of Scotch and Soda takes a break from its grueling schedule of rehearsals. The 
music of Sylvestri and Turner runs through their heads.
by Maria Barbuto and Peggie White \
This is the pubFic theater of the campus, 
says Scotch and Soda president Felicia 
Pratto. The students run the organization 
from administration to scriptwirting; 
music, lyrics and set building.
Scotc h and Sodas major project each year 
is its Spring Musical. This year S'nS will 
produce Protege, an original musical by 
Colette Sylvestri.
Protege follows the current trend in 
backstage musicals that began with A 
Chorus Line in 1975. Current examples of 
this genre are Fame and the revival of 42nd 
Street on Broadway.
In Protege,Nova, a young aspiring 
actress, ambitiously takes a shot at the lime
light, only to be hit with the hard realities of 
her chosen profession. Along her way, she 
meets the suave, but obnoxious director Neil 
Oberlin and his disgustingly bitchy girl
friend and side-kick Trisha Hoffman.
To balance the melodrama created by the 
various love triangles, temper flares and 
cuthroat antics, Sylvesti has created some 
rather eccentric characters for several show 
rehearsal and big audition scenes. Their 
interaction and rapport will help to recreate 
the zaniness and rapport of the theater-life 
intimacies.
These eccentrics include Cosmo, a beatnick leftover, and Tyrone, a gay dancer, who 
provide comic relief from the competitive
ness which reigns throughout the show.
by Adam Lauzar
The New Play Festival of CarnegieMellon University staged an evening of 
three one-act plays Monday Night, March
16. The Festival, which will run through 
April 4, opened to an enthusiastic, curious 
full house in the Kresge Theate.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanMarch 19, 1981
by Scott Schaffer
Yr and Shooting A bone the Garbage are 
two albums you probably havent heard on 
the radio, and might never see on the record 
charts. Thats because they are on small, 
independent labels, and the artists are distri
buting the records themselves. If you were 
wondering what music would be like with
out money-grubbing executives scrutiniz
ing every recorded note, these albums might 
help to give you an answer..
Yr is the project of a DJ from St. Paul, 
Minnesota named Steve Tibbetts. Tibbetts, 
who is responsible for a vast array of instru
mentation, as well as composition, engi
neering, and cover art, recorded Yr on his 
own label.
The music is a conglomeration of a sta'ggering collection of styles and forms. 
Although the multi-layered texture and 
long instrumental compositions are remin
iscent of Mike Oldfield, and the penetrating 
African rhythms bring back memories of 
Steve Reich, the sound is completely uni
que. If you have to classify it, you could 
probably call it free-form jazz.
Tibbetts specializes on guitars, but also 
plays keyboards, mandolin, dobra, sitar, and 
percussion. Marc Anderson chips in with 
more percussion instruments. Together, 
these two and a few7 other friends live out 
their musical fantasies. The music flows 
uninhibitedly, trading solos, changing tem
pos, and returning to old themes at will. 
The outstanding sound quality makes Yr 
addictingly easy to listen to-a nice surprise 
for a homemade record.
The second independent album is Shoot
ing Above the Garbage, by the local band 
Carsickness. This collection, recorded in 
November on T.M.I. records, is the sum
mary of the quintets eventful, sometimes
trying first year of existence.
Carsickness is an original band, but to say 
that they are original is not enough. 
Anyone can be different for the sake of being 
different; and every once in a while, people 
like the B-52s will cash in. Carsickness 
doesnt have a gimmick to satiate the minds 
that need one. The group is unique, but 
they dont need skinny ties or space suits to 
prove it.
The band has a raw, unpolished, often 
reggae-soaked sound. The songs are fast, 
compact, and intelligent. Not a bunch of 
hippies boring you with details of their ado
lescent frustrations.
This is not to say that Carsickness is with
out weakness. The mix is sometimes less 
than perfect, and certain songs are about as 
tight as one of Dolly Partons blouses on 
Brooke Shields. The record would be 
stronger if the eighteen songs had been cut 
down a bit. Joe Soaps voice occasionally 
sounds like Joe Cocker with strep throat.
To date, this album is one of the stronger 
statements of pop in Pittsburgh-a few 
notches ahead of the Silencers and that end
less enema of well-intentioned, but heavily 
diluted multi-band collections. Shooting
Aboi>e the Garbage is not a giant leap, but a 
welcome step in a new direction.
As record prices skyrocket and musical 
quality bottoms out, small and independet 
artists and labels are going to steal a fat 
chunk of the market from the recording aris
tocracy. Albums like Yr and Shooting 
Above the Garbage will help catalyze that 
change.
For information about Steve Tibbetts Yr, 
contact Frammis Enterprises, Box 6164, 
Minneapolis, MN 55406. To find out about 
Carsickness Shooting Above the Garbage, 
contact T.M.I., 4626 Forbes Ave., Pittsburgh
The Make Believe Ballroom Orchestra gave a rousing performance of some swing standards at last Sunday nights coffeehouse.
Record review: Carsickness and Steve Tibbetts
Announcing The Opening 
Of Oaklands 
Finest Video Game Facility
GAME MANIA
3807 Forbes (Above Kings Court) 
HOURS: Mon-Thurs 11 AM-11PM Fri-Sat 11 AM-1 AM Sunday Noon-10PM
PRESENT COUPON FOR FREE GAME
---------------
IGame Mania I
3807 Forbes (Above Kings Court)
Good For One Free Game Limit One Coupon \
Expires 3/26/81 CMU 3/19/81 i
I............................

---------------------------------------------------

March 19, 1981The TartanPage 13
The Drama Dept, design show, featuring sets and costume constructions, is currently 
at the Hewlett Gallery through Saturday.
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUO
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIDTS BOCK DARK 
CHAMPALE WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 OIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHELOB MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS AND SCHTZ MALT 
One different 16 oz. 6 pk featured each week
SCHTZ * PABST 
SCHTZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS *
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES-PIZZA SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOOS - CHOICE OF 12 OIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES
OilQinal
Of* ^ hat nnrc
IMPORTS
BECKS LIGHT OR DARK 
Germany
CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmirk
OORT HANSA Germany 
 HOFBRAU Germany 
 FISCHER GOLD France 
- HOLSTEN LAGER Germany 
' ST PAULI GIRL Germany 
' SPATEN Germany 
* RIGNES SPECIAL Norway 
' SWAN LAGER Australia 
' BASS ALE England 
 MAC KESON STOUT 
England 
 LOmNBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England 
* PILSNER URQI 
Czechoslovakia
URQUELL
RIGNES Norway 
DOS EQUIS Mexico 
PERONI Italy 
GUINESS STOUT Ireland
GROLSCHE Holland 
GOSSER Austria 
SAN MIGUEL Phillpmes 
KIRIN Japan 
MOLSON ALE Canada 
KRAKUS Poland 
HEINEKEN LT & DK Holland 
FOSTER S LAGER Australia AND MANY OTHERS
HOT DOG SHOPS. INC 621-7388 or 621 -11 85
3001 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PCH., PA. 15213
In the Northeast, Business is local.
InWashington, D.C., it is International.
The policies and people who shape them are right here in the nations capital. Local news is national news. And current affairs could include international decisions.You can be a pari of it.The summer session at The American University offers the serious student an Jyli 
opportunity to study the political M^irnL process up close. Explore political ybiOjl^A | science.government,business and government relations. communications, journalism and public relations while
you further your degree. ^Plus hands-on internships in government, Sena f ] I I 
international relatrrrtn I 
tions and the V A\[ 
humanities are
Well show you the big picture.
Talk with your academic counselor and call or write now for information about the summer session in D.C.
? Please send course schedule
? Please send specific
information about:________
CASS08
O
AODPESS
PH0N
NAME
TlX*AmericanIniuTsity
Office of Summer Sessions 
The American University 
Washington. OX. 20016 
202-686-2697
The American University s an equi 
opportunity affirmative actiofl mwKy
Campus Galleries: Forbes and Hewlett exhibit
by Julie Weinstein
The Forbes Street Gallery will feature the 
work of three Fine Arts seniors Mary Ann 
Sipple, Amy Cook, and Chris Mosseau 
through March 21. According to the artists a 
combination of art and design work, repres
ented by illustration projects, will be the 
main focus of the show. However, a diverse 
selection of work will be displayed, showing 
the broad range of materials that the artists 
have worked with.
Mary Ann Sipple is a drawing major who 
has become involved in illustration. She 
will display anatomy drawings, oil paint
ings, illustration projects, and some ceram
ics pieces.
Amy Cook, an illustration student, will 
also display a variety of work in different 
mediums. Drawings, paintings, illustration
projects, and hand woven pieces will be 
included in her selection. Cooks fiber work 
will only be displayed the opening night 
tonight of the the show.
An illustration major, Chris Mosseau, 
will display illustration work, painting, and 
a soft sculpture. Chris humor and her inter
est in childrens art are apparent in her 
work. Mosseau stated that the show will be 
somewhat more conservative than many 
recent Forbes Street displays because of the 
nature of the illustration program, with its 
emphasis on commercial projects. A major
ity of straight-forward, advertising related 
work will be shown.
The artists are not offering many of their 
pieces for sale, and the show will end one 
day earlier than usual this week due to 
Spring break.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanMarch 19, 1981
T
The comedy becomes a drag in Le Cage AuxFollesD
by Kathy Barsom
Why would a transvestite be leaping in 
the beautiful Italian countryside? The 
answer is obvious-he has the microfilm. 
Marcello Danons La Cage Aux Folles 11 
integrates mystery, suspense, and homosex
uality into a delightful comedy yet disap
pointing sequel.
For years Albin (Michel Serrault) has been 
known as the gorgeous long-legged blonde, 
Zaza Napoli, but age takes its toll, and the 
transvestite sadly awakens to a cracking 
singing voice, puffy eyes, smeared mascara, 
and sagging pantyhose.
Threatened by the possibility of replace
ment, Albin sets out in drag to prove to his 
companion, Renato Baldi (Ugo Tognazzi), 
who owns the famous nightclub, that he is 
still desired and is the object of other mens 
affections. During his feeble attempt, a 
small capsule of microfilm is planted in the
pocket ot his floral outfit. The escapades 
that follow deal with the frantic attempts of 
competing spy factions to obtain the valua
ble information contained within the 
capsule.
As is true of most sequels, La Cage Aux 
Folles II, though amusing, -shoWs definite  
signs of strain. The banality of the plot, and 
the belabored comical dialogue kills the 
great expectations of the viewers that had 
seen the movies predecessor.
Although the actors are placed within a 
trite plot, acting remained excellent. Michel 
Serraults portrayal of the stereotypical 
transvestite is both flawless and convincing. 
His subtle use of expression and gesture 
accounts for a great percentage of the humor 
within the film
Ugo Tognazzis characterization of the 
suave, debonair male figure within the relatioshsip is also well executed. His firm,
calm disposition provides a wonderful con
trast to SeKraults highly excitable, often irra
tional character.
Benny Luke again does a fantastic job in 
his portrayal of Jacob, the happy couples 
maid. His fashion sense and ability to wear 
the most outrageous outfits with panache 
proves to be hysterical.
Despite the inherent weaknesses in 
sequels, La Cage Aux Folles II provides 
many humerous scenes. One such scene 
takes place in Italy where the couple flees to 
avoid pursuing spies. They stay with Renatos old fashioned, typical Italian mother 
who immediately converts her prima donna 
/daughter-in-law into a perfect Italian 
housewife.
Another very funny scene occurs when a 
group of hard, macho spies dress-up in drag 
to prevent an opposing spy faction from
obtaining information (on the microfilm), 
essential to their existence. Seeing big, virile 
men struggling in high heels and carry ing 
purses is extremely interesting as well as 
amusing. (Some of them didnt look bad at 
all!)
People who have not had the pleasure of 
seeing the original La Cage Aux Folles will' 
probably find the sequel both charming and 
hysterical. /Compared to the original, La 
Cage Aux Folles II is quite disappointing.
The oft-used, hrtisplaced microfilm plot is 
old hat and second time around, the dia
logue becomes slightly strained. However, ' 
Albin and Renato the charming homosex
ual couple have not lost their humorous 
appeal.
La Cage Aux Folles II is playing at the 
Squirrel Hill Theatre on Forward Avenue. 2
The Travelers Insurance Companies, One Tower Square, Hartford, Ct. 06115 THE I RAVELERS
Looking back at it, our friend appears rather shortsighted. In 1864, The Travelers had just started doing business. He was concerned about the uncertain world situation and decided to stick with a job with a future. So he turned down our offer and went on selling blacksmith supplies. The rest is history.Our point is, in the hundred-plus years weve been doing business, The Travelers never lost faith in the future. Through good times and bad, weve achieved our growth by daring to innovate. In 1864, we were the first company to insure against accidents. In 1919, we were the first to offer aircraft liability insurance. In 1979, we were the first company to install the Distributed Claims Processing Computer-the fastest way there is to pay claims. We could go on, but you get the point.Today, The Travelers is a Fortune 500 company with wide-ranging career opportunities in accounting, sales, engineering, underwriting, data processing, finance. Were taking the lead to make sure no man or woman at The Travelers is shortchanged when it comes to having an equal opportunity to succeed.
Our Representative will be visiting your campus on April 6. Your Placement Director has additional information.At The Travelers, were ready to meet the future, starting yesterday. .
An equal opportunity employer M/F

---------------------------------------------------

I_______________________Sports.
Chillers and D-Force grab top honors in basketball
by Wes Seeley
The 33rd Annual Intramural Night was 
held last Friday night at Skibo Gym and 
featured the presentation of awards for all 
the IM sports completed to date, along with 
the Intermediate and Major finals for basket
ball. In the Intermediate game, D-Force 
downed the Tarheels, 50-42, and in the 
Major final, the Chillers from Juoo edged 
Lucifer, 39-36.
Balanced scoring in the first half gave 
D-Force a 24-21 lead at the intermission of 
the opener. Harold Collins, Donahue Scott, 
and Devonne Mosby each scored six points 
in the half while Jeff Fisher led the Tarheels 
with five.
The Tarheels fought back in the third 
quarter, thanks to some balanced scoring of 
their own, and took a 32-30 lead going into 
the final quarter but at this point D-Force 
got their running game in gear. Stan Baines
and Mosby lead the charge down the stretch 
with Mosby taking game high scoring 
honors with 20 points. Fisher and Andy 
Rossi led the Tarheels with ten apiece.
In the late game, the two teams fought on 
even terms for more than three quarters 
before the Chillers pulled away enough for 
the win. The game was tied at 9-9 after one 
quarter and the Chillers led21-19at the half, 
with Jeff Kruhm of Lucifer and Tom 
Clancy of the Chillers leading their respec
tive teams in scoring.
Gary Petroskys nine second half points 
helped keep Lucifer within reach, but the 
shooting of Rocky Cersosimo and some 
clutch work from the foul line by Clancy, 
who hit five freethrows down the stretch, 
iced the win. Clancy was the top scorer with
16 points, Cersosimo added 13. Kruhm and 
Petrosky each scored 12 for Lucifer.
1980-81 IM Champions (To Date) 
BASKETBALL
Major..................................Chillers from Juco
Intermediate................................................D-Force
Minor...............................................................M&Ms
Womens..............................................Stamp Krew
WATER POLO
Team.....................................Computer Science
SOCCER
Major...............................................Mellon Heads
Minor..........................................................Theta Xi
MVP...................................................Robert Nagle
VOLLEYBALL
Major..............................................................Ustalar
Intermediate..............................................Phi Kap
Minor........................Off With Their Hands
Womens.............................................Zanzibar II
MVP.............................................Paul Follansbee
DARTS
Team.....................................................Theta Xi-B
MAJOR FINAL
LuciferFGFTPTSChillersFGFTPTS
Sabin306Cersosimo6113
Petrosky4412Clancy5616
Dudas204Corcoran102
Ream102Liput306
Kruhm6012Seel102
Vecchio000Wood000
TOTALS16436TOTALS16739
INTERMEDIATE FINAL
TarheelsFGFTPTSD-ForceFGFTPTS
Rossi4210Jones102
ONan204Baines306
Olive204Miller204
Agosti306Mosby9220
Ginsberg306Scott408
Benack022Jennings102
TOTALS17842TOTALS24250
Intramurals
New ultimate frisbee sport to begin
Twenty ultimate frisbee teams are needed 
to start the new intramural sport. Sign-ups 
will be posted throughout the dormitories 
and additional rosters will be available in 
Mr. E.J. Birdys office, Gym 104. The roster 
deadline is Wednesday, April 8, and the 
games will be played on the following 
weekends. Two CMU ultimate frisbee team 
members will be allowed on each regular six 
man team. The regular rules, with the fewr 
exceptions, are available from the commis
sioner Henry Thome, phone 578-4529. If 
you want to play but cant get a whole team 
together the commissioner will get you a 
team.
The final day for softball entries is Thurs
day, March 19, at 4:30. TTie minimum on a 
roster is eleven and the maximum is 23.
Games will begin on March 31. There will 
be a rules clinic at 4:30 on March 30 in the 
Womens Gym. A representative from every 
team must attend this meeting. Commis
sioners are Mike Pochan, phone 683-0342, 
and Wes Seeley, phone 687-0843.
Check the IM bulletin board for the time 
and date of the next round of weightlifting 
or contact commissioner Ken Murawski, 
phone 578-4666.
'Hie co-rec badminton commissioner is 
Jamie Patterson, phone 421-5952.
Individual call pool schedules are out and 
can be picked up in the IM office. The com
missioner is Les Joel of Kappa Sigma, 
phone 683-8630.
Table tennis singles and doubles sche
dules are out. Please play all the matches as
CROSS COUNTRY
Team........................................................Meeks Xs
First Indiv.............................................Steve Bailey
Second Indiv................................Robert Nagle
Third Indiv ...........................Dave Reymolds
Womens..................................................Kim Ames
GOLF
Team......................................................................GSIA
Individual..........................................Jim Czepiel
CO-REC VOLLEYBALL
Major................................................................Ustalar
Minor........................................................Zanzibar
TENNIS
Team...........................................Witchner & Co.
RACQUETBALL
Team...........................The Sexiest Men Alive
WRESTLING
Team......................................................................PIKA
127 lbs.................................Keith Shrive (PIKA)
133 lbs...............................Dave Ableman (PIKA)
138 lbs....................................Jim Hacket (BETA)
151 lbs...................................Scott Dansey (PIKA)
158 lbs...............................Eric Badorrek (BETA)
165 lbs............................Dennis Checca (GDI)
175 lbs..................Charlie Paraboschi (PIKA)
185 lbs....................................Jim Gresh (ATO)
195 lbs............................David Rispler (PIKA)
Heavyweight....................Mike Zellhart (ATO)
BOWLING
Team..........................................................Phi Kap A
High Series..........................................Doug Ayers
High Game...................................Jim Hayward
FOUL SHOOTING
Team.......................................................................4-F s
Individual............................................Bob Keibler
BACKGAMMON
Team.....................................Computer Science
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Major.....................................................Haven III
Intermediate...............................................Beta AA
Minor.............................................................D-Force
Womens..............................................................KKG
MVP........................................Rocky Cersosimo
scheduled and report the scores to the com
missioner, Glenn Rosenthal, phone 683- 
3864 or 682-9166.
Water basketball schedules are out. The 
home team, which is the one on the left, is 
responsible for providing a certified life 
guard and the game equipment. Both teams 
playing the final game of the evening must 
put away all equipment used during the 
game. The commissioner is Gary Petrosky, 
phone 578-4005.
The bridge commissioner is Eric Thies, 
phone 682-9580. All games w ill be played at 
the Theta Xi house.
The next meeting of the IM board w ill be 
Thursday, March 19, at 12:30 in Room 104 
Gym.The newest IM spdrt is ultimate frisbee.
TENNIS
Apr.1W8cJ<H)
Apr.3Duquesne(A)
Apr.8Westminster(H)
Apr.11Pitt(H)
Apr.12Robert Morris(H)
Apr.14Bethany(A)
Apr.16CWRU(A)
Apr.18Hiram(A)
Apr.22Thiel(A)
Apr.25Allegheny(H)
Apr.27JCU(H)
May1-2PAC Championship(A)
Spring is almost here and so are spring 
sports. Varsity track, tennis, and golf begin 
their regular seasons the first week in April, 
right after we return from spring break.
Apr. 4
TRACK
PAC Relays(A)
Apr. 11CWRU/W&J(H)
Apr. 22Hiram(A)
Apr. 25A1 legheny / Bethany(A)
Apr. 28JCU(A)
May 1-2PAC Championship(A)
Apr. 1
GOLF
WfcJ/CWRU(A)
Apr. 3Bethany/Hiram(A)
Apr. 6Westminster(A)
Apr. 8Hiram(H)
Apr. 15CWRU/Thiel(A)
Apr. 21A1 leghen y Bethany(A)
Apr. 23Duquesne(A)
Apr. 28Thiel JCU(A)
Apr. 30PAC Championship(A)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMarch 19, 1981
Segmiller and Durr achieve All-PWC recognition
Operation: Service StationA service of WRCT-FM
Funded by Student Acvities Fee
--------?Ple------------------------------------
Kassie Segmiller and Debbie Durr have 
earned All-Penwood West Conference 
recognition as a result of their play on the 
Camegie-Mellon womens basketball team. 
The Tartans, coached by Gene Klein, fin
ished third in the PWC with a 5-5 record, 6-9 
overall.
Segmiller, our 5'6" junior forward, was 
named to the conference first team. She was 
the conferences second leading scorer, aver
aging 18.4 points per game. Earlier this sea
son, Kassie, who has been the Tartans 
leading scorer since she was a freshman, 
became the first woman in the schools his
tory to score 1000 career points.
Durr, our 5'9" sophomore center, earned 
second team honors on the strength of her 
12.1 rebounds per gamesecond highest inHELP WANTED!
WRITERS NEEDED 
FOR ALL 
SPRING SPORTS
IF INTERESTED 
CALL X4291
88 3
TAKE ALONG SOME GOOD BOOKS.
c-mu book/tore5 Swimmers make NCAA
Five members of the Camegie-Mellon 
University swim team will compete in the 
NCAA Division III Swimming and Diving 
Championships at Oberlin College in Oberlin, Ohio, March 19-21.
Two-time All-American senior Jim 
Matysek will lead the Tartans at the Nation
als, competing in the 100 yard and 200 yard 
breaststroke and as a member of the 400 yard 
medley, 400 yard freestyle and 800 yard frees
tyle relay teams.
Matysek will join sophomore Randy 
Condon and freshman Jay Robnett, who 
will be entered in the 200 yard backstroke,
and 400 yard freestyle and 400 yard medley 
relays. Condon will also compete in the 100 
yard backstroke while Robnett will be a 
member in the 800 yard freestyle relay team.
Sophomore Mike Kochanowski will 
swim in the 400 yard medley and freestyle, * 
and the 800 yard freestyle relay teams. Junior 
Nick Watts will round out the 800 yard free
style relay team.
The Tartans, coached by Donna Pecman, 
were 3-7 for the season and finished fourth 
in the Presidents Athletic Conference 
Championships meet.
WRCT Celebrates 
CarnegieMellon University
Throughout the month of April WRCT will be promoting the events of campus organizations. To participate in
Operation: Service Station
drop us a line at Skibo 48.
the conferenceand 14.2 points per game.
The All-PWC Teams
FIRST TEAM
Diane Ferrara (G) 
Denise DeSimone (G) 
Colleen Curley (C) 
Kassie Segmiller (F) 
Kathy Killimer (F) 
Terry Swinehart (F)
St. Francis 
Wash-Jeff 
St. Francis 
CMU 
Wash-Jeff 
Bethany
SECOND TEAM
Cindy Bittner (F)
Cindy Chmurra (F) 
Debbie Durr (C)
Mary Lynn Wagner (G) 
Jackie Sims (G)
Carlow 
Seton Hill 
CMU 
Carlow 
Wash-Jeff

---------------------------------------------------

March 19, 1981The TartanPage 17
A subdued Streisand shines in All Night Long
by Richard Giammanco
At first glance, All Night Long might 
look like the advertising campaign for just 
another silly Barbra Streisand movie. Look
ing closer one sees that she takes second 
billing for her twelfth film. This is certainly 
something new for Barbra Streisand, but 
, this film doesnt really belong to her. The 
' main character in All Night Long is Gene 
Hackman as George Dupler.
George is going through a mid-life crisis, 
and so are the comedies from Hollywood. A 
string of these films have come out recently 
with this subject matter, as in Middle Aged 
Crazy, and have been treated without any 
style. Director Jean-Claude Tramont brings 
to the screen with softness a subtle, roman
tic, intelligent, and ironic slapstick comedy.
o t
This is Tramontas first full American
motion picture. The subtlety of his humor isI
 far superior to the kick-you-in-the-head 
comedy dialogue that has been turned out 
by Neil Simon lately with his Seems Like 
Old Times. Rather than being vulgar, Tramont carefully plants his humor in the 
absurdities of his characters, their reactions, 
goals, and .situations. There is a brilliant 
parody of Apocalypse Now with back
ground music, a toy helicopter, and some 
very' clever photography by Philip Lathrop. 
The film is not flawless by any means, but 
on an intelligent level it is genuinely 
entertaining.
Gene Hackman is at his best in a believa
ble common-man role. The film revolves 
around Georges life after being demoted 
from an executive to the manager of an all 
night supermarket. His true interest is in 
inventing, and we see him quit his job to do 
what makes him happy. He leaves his wife 
for his sons girlfriend, who happens to be a 
married relative of the family, played by Ms. 
Streisand.
Barbra Streisand handles her supporting 
role with grace. Although she plays an unin
telligent character, Ms. Streisand honorably 
portrays the growing process . of a dis
traught, kooky wife of an overbearing Fire
man in a role that was not written for a 
superstar.
Critics have historically jumped on her 
for being so much like herself, and being so 
big and explosive, on the screen. Here she 
shows that she doesnt have to steal every 
scene of a movie. Strangely enough, shes 
now being accused of holding back in this 
movie. If youre looking for the old Strei
sand movie you wont find it here. If you 
would like to see a Streisand thats support
ing rather than controlling-here is your 
chance.
"Die only singing that is done by Ms. 
Streisand is totally in character, singing a 
country song, off key, that Cheryl (Barbra) 
has written herself. Its a very courageous 
step for one of the top female vocalists of our 
time.
Cheryl and George are attracted to each 
other in a spark of irony. In response to 
Georges story of his throwing a chair 
through his boss window, Cheryl says 
Thats terrific. Its obvious that this reac
tion, so totally different from that of his wife,
touches George and brings him in to a new 
way of looking at his life.
Once attracted to Cheryl's free spirit atti
tude he takes it even farther and escapes with 
her. Cheryl, on the other hand, is attracted to 
Georges maturity which she could not find 
in either her husband or Georges teenage 
athletic son. This romantic comedy team 
resembles what some might think of as a 
Jack Lemmon and Marilyn Monroe mis
matched couple.
The film wins because it takes a positive 
attitude rather than a negative one. The 
screenplay, written by W.D. Richter, is not 
all it could have been, but the director didnt 
rely on it.
Tramont does not sacrifice his ending. He 
makes a positive statement about humans 
instincts for happiness. The photography 
ranges from well done to mediocre. Hack
man and Streisand give good performances, 
along with Diane Ladd, as Georges wife, 
and Dennis Quaid as his son.
Rewards. Respect. Sound Management. Growth. Credibility. Direction.
Without a doubt, youve heard these 
words plenty of times. Some people call 
them buzz words because theyre 
supposed to draw your attention.
At Signetics, we do more than simply 
attract you with impressive sounding 
words.
We make them come to life.
Were setting the pace for the 80s in 
the semiconductor industry.
And we offer college graduates challeng
ing career opportunities in a variety of 
exciting areas, including all phases 
of engineering: product, design, process, 
test, reliability/quality assurance, and 
failure analysis.
Were seeking individuals with a 
bachelors, masters or Ph.D. degree in 
electrical, mechanical or chemical 
engineering; material science; computer 
science; physics; metallurgy; electronics 
or industrial technology.
While most of our openings are of a 
technical nature, we encourage you to 
contact us about non-technical oppor
tunities which exist from time to time in 
Finance, Sales, Administration, Personnel, 
Material Control, Marketing, Production, 
and ottvr Support Functions.
Well be on campus 
Friday, April 3.
Where you start your career is extraor
dinarily important. Your first joband 
what you do with itwill shape your 
future for years to come. Take time to 
review the Signetics Recruitment Binder 
which you will find in your Placement 
Center. Youll learn about our oppor
tunities in California, Utah and New 
Mexico. Or, write to Signetics College 
Relations, Opportunity CP-81,811 East 
Arques Avenue, Sunnyvale, CA 94086. 
We are an equal opportunity employer. 
Permanent residency visa preferred. .
The Good People Company
a subsidiary of U.S. Philips Corporation

---------------------------------------------------

as ndcnourl huolocrl
APRIL 24 1981
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
Moving and light haulingCampus based and 
reasonable. Evenings 687-3062.
Typingexperienced, freelance secretary, papers 
theses, statistics, etc. IBM executive Selectric II,
521-7888 .
Want it done right? Typing, editing, profession
ally prepared, by a Ph.D graduate. Reports, 
manuscripts, theses, dissertations. Prompt, effi
cient, reasonable. IBM executive. Susan, 963- 
7558. Call after 4 p.m.
Dav Care! Mother with 18 mo. old wishes to care 
for toddlers in my home. B.A. in Psychology', 
Experienced and loving. Educational Program, 
Squirrel Hill, 521-8018
Apartments for rent Shadyside area. Furnished 
or unfurnished, laundry, parking, appliances. 
Efficiencies, one, two, and three bedrooms. 682-
7010.
Full-time help wanted. Light secretarial, typing, 
phone work. Oakland Area. Call 621-7200, Mrs.
Rogers.
Typing experienced, freelance secretary, will
t>pe at home, resumes, thesis, correspondence, 
tables, etc. own IBM Selectric II. 521-7888.
Looking for female Mud wrestlers to compete on 
April 11. Prize money will be given. For details, 
contact Denny at 683-2082 or Paul at 687-4713.
Wanted: apartment for summer sublet for May
15August 31, less than $250/month, furniture 
preferred but not necessary. Call Jay after 5 p.m.
486-3517.
Italian, Spanish, German and English Tutoring
by degreed native teachers. For additional info 
call 661-1211.
Counselors, over 19 who like to have fun and 
make fun at unique overnight boys summer 
camp in Penna. Able to instruct either one of the 
following: Watersafety, Waterskiing, Boating, 
Soccer, Basketball, Arts and Crafts, Rockclimbing, Riflery, Ham Radio, Rocketry,_ Science, 
Archery, Track, Tennis, Golf, Photography, Pio
neering, or General Atheltics. Write Camp Direc
tor, 138 Red Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, PA 
19444.
Summer Counselor Positions Available. Appli
cants are now being considered for t he 1981 camp 
season. Must be able to teach one of the follow
ing; Arts and Crafts, Aits and Crafts Director, 
Dancing, Theater Director, Piano Accompanist 
and Singing, Archery, Tennis, Trampoline, 
Gymnastics. Photography, Teaching, Jazzerdze, 
Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming 
Instructor or General Auieletics. Counselor Unit 
Leaders, must be colege graduate experienced in 
camping. Able to plan schedule for activities, 
evening program, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
Camp Office, 6410 Beacon St.,Pittsburgh Pa. 
15217 or phone 412-521-2376.
The T-Shirt Co is ready to take your T-Shirt 
order, we have improved our facilities to handle 
multi-color designs. For more information, call 
us at 588-3635 or 578-4524. The T-Shirt Co. is 
under the direction of Student Corporation; 
bringing you the services you want
Apartment available in Sq Hill from April 1; on 
Hobart between Murray and Shady; 3 rooms, 
furnished, ground floor, $225 per month, all 
utilities inc. Call 421-4392.
Brents.
theater
Through March 21 
The Great Bolyavski
A play by actor Paul E. Richards, a visiting artist 
at CMU. Subtitled A Saga of the Yiddish Actor, 
the two-man play was inspired by the Yiddish 
Art Theatre which flourished in New York from 
the late 1880s into the early fifties. Starring Paul 
Richards and Sheldon Feldner. 8:20 p.m., 
through Saturday in the CMU Studio Theatre. 
For information, call the drama dept, box-office 
at 578-2407.
March 20 
Mummenshan?
The Swiss mime troup, which appeared on 
Broadway for several years, comes to Heinz Hall 
for one show only, at 8 p.m. Student discounts are 
available at the Heinz Hall Box Office.
March 4 through April 12
Tangles
The World Premiere of a new play by Robert 
Litz. A contemporary comedy about the 
romantic collisions of five friends. At the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre on the North Side, 
^formation, call 323-1900.
Through April 5 
Look Back in Anger
1 he Allegheny Re|x*n*tory Theatre will present 
the jxjwerful post-war drama by John Osborne. 
At the Pittsburgh Laboratory1 'Theatre Center. 
420 North Craig St. For reservations and informa
tion, call 621-2876.
March 20
To Forget Venice, a recent Italian film, starring 
Mariangelo Melato. 7:30, 9:30 and 11:30
March 21
American Gigilo, starring Richard Gere and 
Lauren Hutton. 7:30, 9:40 and 11:45
artHewlett Gallery
In the College of Fine Arts opposite the box 
office. Gallery hours are 10 AM to 4 PM, Monday 
through Saturday, and during Kresge Theatre 
performances.
March 2 through 2iDrama Department 
Senior Design ShowForbes Street Gallery
Margaret Morrison Street and Fprbes Avenue, 
Wednesday through Sunday, 12:30 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
Tuesday, WTednesday and Thursday, 7 to 9 p.m.
March 17 through 22-Amy Cook, Chris Mosseau 
and Mary Ann Sipple
Cash: Wanted, 10,000 Late Model WTrecks and 
Junkers, Used Cars, Trucks 23 hrs. 422-9968.
The Foreign and Domestic Teachers Organizationneeds teacher applicants in all fields from Kin
dergarten through College to fill over five 
hundred vacancies both at home and abroad. 
Additional information about the organization 
may be obtained by writing to the National 
Teachers Placement Agency, Universal 
Teachers, Box 5231, Portland Oregon, 97208.
official
President Richard Cyert will have open office
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, April 14 and 
today, March 19. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his office, 578- 
2200, to set up an appointment.
The Student Senate meets in the Wherret Room 
at 6:30 p.m. every Tuesday night.
John P. Credne, Dean of the College of Humani
ties and Social Sciences will have open office 
hours for students, Tuesdays from 1:30-3:30.
club
EngineersThe Sodety of American Military 
Engineers will be holding its monthly meeting 
on March 19 in Margaret Morrison B-5 from 
11:30-12:30 a.m. The guest speaker will be LTC 
Ralph W. Gilbert, deputy district engineer, Pitts
burgh Office of the Corps of Engineers. The 
discussion topic will be Hydro-electric power.
LIFEISN'TCHEAP.
SHARE
COSTorOn-Ca
GIVE TO THE 
AMERICAN 
CANCER SOCIETY.
This space contributed os a public s*rmc*.
Ellery Queen Selects Masterpieces of Mystery
Pub. at $6.95
332558. Masterpieces of Mys
tery: THE GOLDEN AGE: 
PART ONE. Selected by Ellery 
Queen Twelve classics from 
one of the most fruitful periods m 
the history of detective fiction, 
1920-1940. Inc!. Asatha Chris
tie, Dorothy L. Sayers, Leslie 
Chatteris, Dashiell Hammett, 
more. Attractively bound in red 
simulated leather with gold 
stamping
332566. Masterpieces of Mys
tery. THE GOLDEN AGE: 
PART TWO. Sixteen more 
classics of detective fiction frpm 
the years 1920-1940. Ind. Rex 
Stout, Erie Stanley Gardner. 
Nicholas Blake, Michael 
Innes, more. Attractively bound 
in red simulated leather with gold 
stamping.
Only $2.98 Each
Now On Sale
c-mu book/tore
film
Pittsburgh Playhouse Film 
Repertory
March 19
Monty Python and the Holy Grail, starring Eric 
Me, Graham Chapman and John Ckvse. 7:30
and 9:30
Get into BusinessSenior College Women, Earn a certificate in
ESSENTIALS OF 
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
Six-week program, June 21-July 31, 1981
s CHATHAMC#LLEGE SPA 15232
Write: EBA Director Chatham College, Woodland Rd.
441-8200, x 216
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 4QA

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanMarch 19, 1981
Kreskin mystifies CMU
continued from page 6
not money but an apology. Kreskin won the 
suit, and Hollen retracted every word of the 
accusation.
According to Kreskin, it is not hypnosis, 
but suggestion that changes people. People 
belive in hypnosis because they have spent 
money on it and they have to justify it. 
Hypnotists use intimidation. v
To prove his point about the power of 
suggestion, Kreskin invited about thirty 
members of the audience to join him on 
stage. Using suggestion he first convinced 
the subjects that their arms were rising 
uncontrolled and their eyes were sealed shut. 
He then told them that the room was becom
ing first very cold and then very hot. He was 
convincing enough to cause some subjects 
to remove their shirts, and one person 
removed his pants.
Campus groups get 
free publicity
by Julie Weinstein
Operation Service Station is the name 
of WRCTs new public relations and pro
motion project. Beginning immediately 
and continuing through spring carnival, 
this project will give all campus organiza
tions a chance for free publicity on WRCT. 
Aided by station technicians, representatives 
from organizations will make a promo
tional tape which WRCT will play in 
selected commercial slots for one day. The 
station hopes to promote one campus group 
per day from now until carnival.
Operation Service Station was conceived 
by Steve Kane, general manager erf WRCT. 
Mark Bodnar, assistant general manager is 
responsible for developing and carry ing out 
the project. Bodnar hopes for a big response 
to Operation Service Station; he is enthusi
astic about the project as a way for many 
small, unheard of organizations to promote 
activities and recruit members. Bodnar feels 
that large campus groups ought to take 
advantage of the free air time as well.
Bodnar asks that organizations wishing 
to participate in the project contact WRCT 
as soon as possible.
A Philip Pelusi Haircut for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center 
or Century III Mall
Kreskin then began the climax to his dem
onstration. He told everyone that the real 
culprit in the case of the shooting of J.R. on 
Dallas had not been found, and 
guilty person was in the audience. About ten 
of the subjects came forward and accused 
different members of the audience, and each 
was certain he was right. Later, none of the 
subjects remembered making the 
accusations.
Before the subjects left the stage, Kreskin 
asked each to estimate how long the group 
had been on stage. Guesses ranged from five 
to fifteen minutes. In fact, the group had 
been on stage for 36 minutes.
Kreskin closed his show by reaffirming 
the power of suggestion.
Above left: Kreskin recreates a scene from Dressed to kill, with Aaron 
Dickinson role.
Above: Sweating it out at room temperature.
Centro de Investigacin y Desarrollo de Petrleos de Venezuela S.A.INTEVEP, S.A. Necesita Investigadores e Ingenieros,
Petrleos de Venezuela S.A., la empresa petrolera estatal venezola
na, adelanta actualmente un vasto programa de expansin.Las reas principales de desarrollo son la exploracin costa afuera, la ampliacin de la capacidad de refinacin y la explotacin de los 
inmensos yacimientos de crudos pesados y extrapesados de la 
Faja Petrolfera del Orinoco.
Este programa plantea desafos tecnolgicos enormes, en casi todos los campos de conocimiento que tienen que ver con la activi
dad petrol
Como Centro de Investigacin y Desarrollo de Petrleos de Vene
zuela. S.A., INTEVEP tiene la responsabilidad de responder a este 
desafo tecnolgico.
El ambiente de trabajo en INTEVEP es dinmico y estimulante. Los investigadores son en su mayora jvenes, altamente comprometi
dos con el reto que tiene planteado la organizacin. Los niveles de remuneracin y beneficios sociales son muy atractivos. El Centro est ubicado en Los Teques, localidad a 30 kilmetros de Caracas, 
en una zona montaosa de hermosos paisajes y excelente clima.
Queremos entrevistar cursantes de Post-Grado en Qumica, Ingeniera Qumica, Ingeniera de Combustin, Ingeniera de Computa
cin, Ingeniera Electroqumica, Geoqumica, Geofsica, Geologa, 
Ingeniera Geotcnica, Informtica, Ingeniera Mecnica, Ingeniera Petrolera, Petrofsica, Sedimentologia, Ingeniera Estructural 
y Geologa Estructural. Preferimos candidatos venezolanos o de 
habla hispana.
Si Usted est cursando Post-Grado en alguna de las reas men
cionadas y desea hacer carrera en un Centro de Investigacin y 
Desarrollo dontle le esperan tareas grandes y urgentes contctenos.
Estarmos entrevistando candidatos el da 30 de marzo.
Solicite una entrevista con nosotros o envenos su curriculum vitae a:liiiiiiiiiiiiiin
INTEVEP S A
750 Welch Road. Suite 204 
Palo Alto CA 94304

---------------------------------------------------

Through habituation and teaching the mother re 
produces the child with her own needs, in this case the 
need for privacy which inevitably brings with it related 
needs. Now the child grows up needing time to himself, 
a room of his own, freedom of choice, freedom to plan 
his own time and his own life. He will brook no 
interference and no encroachment. He will spend his 
wealth installing plivate bathrooms in his house, 
buying a private car, a p^Sate yacht, private woods 
and a privj^Lte beach, which he will then people 
with his own privally chosn society. v,uagt Voms.
Volume IINumber 4

---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER
Viewpoint
Ritual
Chance Encounters at the Beaux Arts Ball6
The Widow
9
The White Pages 10
Cinderella12
Beef and Television
14
This editorial explores the trend of individual alienation in todays student population.
The games, language, and values of streetwise kids are wonderfully depicted in Ritual, a humerous and shockingly realistic short story.
The perversity of Beaux Arts Ball comes alive once again as this author takes us through that infamous night of wildness.
In this poem, the author shows the painfui loneliness of an older woman who views life'through a window.
A chance encounter of a murderer and his victims relative occurs at a bus stop in this tension-filled scene.
Reality replaces childhood fantasy in this poem
This short piece is the first installment of what promises to be an entertaining series of events in the bizarre life of a young man.
Lynn Epstein
Michael Vanner
Bob Brenner
Mary S. Emery
Sterne Slavin
Duane Stejfey
Paul Smith
Editors:
Art Directors: 
Art Staff:
Lynn Epstein, Dena Santoro 
Peter Cowell, Jane Novorro 
Barry Debsky, pages 6 * 7 % 8 * 16 
Mike Post* page 13
Cover Design: Sue Ritzau
This issue of DOSSIER is the first issue that has been purely artistic. Wed still love to have your artwork, short stories, poems, and projects, but we need more. Every college on this campus is involved with something creatively exciting, and the DOSSIER staff would like to hear about it from you. Jot down an idea or talk to us about writing an article. We need artists, writers, and interesting students who are interested in helping. Let us know whats exciting in your niche on campus by dropping by our office or writing Room 50 Skibo, care of the DOSSIER editor.

---------------------------------------------------

3
?
viewpoint
by Lynn Epstein
Try sometime to explain your attitudes towards college to your parents. Chances are the half who do try will be confronted first with an incredulous stare and second with a reprimanding silence. The other half has already tried and knows to keep its mouth shut. And the few who will succeed in gaining understanding have very aware and well-informed parents.The truth is, college, and life in general, is much changed from our parents youth. The Fifties were ideal in that everyone had a fairly clear role to follow. There was no confusion and anxiety about what to do or what is right to do. With this security, there came individual confidence, optimism, direction, and, therefore, motivation. In short, each individual knew where he or she stood; whether they liked it or not, they could work from there. But nothing is so clear-cut now. Economically, politically, and socially, the situations were so different from now that an understanding on our parents part is hard to expect.In some ways it is easy to see why many students look to the Sixties and lament their loss. Despite the confusion and violence of that era, there was a unified student body, working together to obtain a common goal. Although there is danger in such a unity, there is also group strength, which leads to individual security, optimism, and motivation. Each member of the group realizes the others worth, so that their group perpetually reinforces itself, individually and as a whole. This unity, and particularly its effects on individuals, is what is missing in the current student body.As in all arguments, this argument lends itself to generalizations. Obviously there are exceptions, as there always will be. Not all students lack modvation or feel a sense of anger and frustration. Yet a trend in individual alienation is marked, and it is not a silent trend. Students are vocal about their attitudes, regardless of whether they are moved to take action. Comments on depression, frustration, and alienation are too frequent to just toss off. Although tracing the basis of these feelings would be too lengthy and complicated to draw out in a short arucle, a discussion of the way things stand is pertinent to ' their changing in the future.Somehow, and for some reason, our generation seems to be lacking individual motivation and a sense of self-worth. Whether or not these ... 
can be achieved only through unity is hard to tell, but a situation of frustration and anger definitely exists. Many students term it alienation, but it is not an alienation that is the result of anything tangible or noticeably conscious. It is simply an inability, or lack of desire, to take the initiative and change those areas of our lives which need improvement.This alienation is manifest in a general laziness, a failure to be truly interested in activities, sometimes even personal ones, and overall in a lack of modvation. Students express feelings of worthlessness, which results in both pessimism and apathy. Attitudes like why bother? persist because students feel a loss of both power and control over their actions and therefore over their decision-making. In other words, our generation must combat something less clear and less tangible than almost any generation we have had contact with in the past. We have no unity and no apparent cause for unity. We have no motivation and no apparent cause for motivation. We have no security in role models, because everything is acceptable, socially and morally. We have no clear-cut values. And all these decisions and dilemmas rest solely on the individual to resolve. It is a lot for one individual, and it seems as though more and more resolve the problem by giving up, accepting passively the way things are and alienating themseves to such a degree that they are affected by nothing and no one to any degree of intensity.The question comes to exactly what it is that motivates students today. It is not usually grades, because most students have realized the subjectivity and invalidity of grades. It is not really money, because most students wont do more than the bare minimum even if they are offered money. It is not happiness, because many students complain considerably about frustration and depression, yet they fail to take the necessary steps to improve their situations.Some say that they realize the impossibility of it all, meaning I suppose that this is reality and it cannot be changed. They feel they must accept because they feel powerless to change. This realism is dangerous, because it leads not only to passivity but also to pessimism. There must be idealism and the fight to obtain those ideals. Somehow the motivation to change the things that are bothering us is absent. One answer may be that college is a traditional time of selfexploration, but this selfishness may be taken too far for anybodys good. Withdrawal is not the answer to any problem; it is simply a safe and ineffective way of dealing with the world. Many students even lack the motivation to seek help, whether it be from another student, faculty, family, or simply by getting involved and doing something he or she can be proud of or secure in, either in personal or community affairs.In general, students today do not feel good about themselves or about others. Most will say that they were not this way in high school, that something changed them once they came here. But regardless of whether an existing alienation created the pervading alienation or students created the alienation themselves, it is still a fact to deal widi, and a fact which should probably be tackled first on an individual level.Everyone has a distinct value, something that no one else can offer in quite the same way. If students are to be happy and satisfied with themselves and their world,then they must be willing to take a risk and break the barriers of alienation. Students have nothing to lose but frustration, anger, and loneliness.

---------------------------------------------------

lift ing iITh lexim.
y's gel on! of heie, I veiled 
WMm&ht. who was stilled m
engrossed in the magazines, as I 
rat} down the stairs.
! was so ]>s\< -hcd up, I barely 
noticed Buddys little brotherhae k doorway. Ixlter get the fuck out of lx*tt\ theres fueling pigs all over! PORr main reason everyone ifx>k Wf&rt in the ritual was to prove you were cex>I. Bravery and were two important parts of being cool. It took guts to defy the law* and its lily white middle (lass v commandment of, Thou shall not steal, but one needed something if pull it off. We all thought we wet cex>I, but needed something to j prove it. Tlie ritual was a test, - t| unlike sex or drugs, because only the ally cool cUircxi to take it I lookitl out the window, and saw a police cai drive slowly dowi
g*i4UiNe these things ;ue wnrtf|^ 
t <oney* *H S|Then why dont you take i iem?What the hell do I want a bunc h of glass animals for?I felt like leaving right then, but couldnt. Not when I knew that > there had to be something in $ie|| house of value, which I would regret not having 2ooke$Ck> down Icxm for
q^Piut rather the that we could, ?hich we could The crime seemed experience in | as sex and drugs
>ne leg through *w, but quickly | felt nothing 
m head in the.Beans, asT gave up on thetfesk to check the
v Each creaking step sent a shiver|Hfffi!PlPny spine, us I made im wav up to the bedrooms. I heard leaked. Buddy, andpepped Chi*ck it excjliught he pointed to a fcxxkx ker, vpfa #;jI was broken jxtddlelock. 1 hit thebrother fucking jac k pot.
Hey you guys, I dont know about this house. There might be a dog here, Buddy warned, as heand Little Beans inspected the basement window.What makes you think theres a dog? I asked.I just stepjxd in dog shit.The Lawr defines breaking and entering as a felony. Usually its only petty theft, though some bank robbers make it the grandest of larceny. In In Cold Blood, it became a mass murder, but to us it was only a ritual.Just another ritual performed H
fuc king rifle.I sighed to surpress laughter, and pushed the point of the Ixiyonet from my face.If I didnt knov\r you better Buddy, Id think you were1 stupid. Youre only saying that cause I got the gun, he replied with a grin, as he started to rumage through the house.I was emptying a desk drawer, when I heard glass breaking. I looked to see Little Beans throwing a collection of little* glass arimals, piece by piece off tlu* wail.
entered the next rcxnn. A spinster aunt I figured, and set out on an intense* searc h. Some how I figured that the* spinster must have had a lot of money, and no one to sjxnd it on, and that some of it was hiding in the rcx>m 1 stalled ripping pictures off the,Md^:.fflMl I threw the matttes^ and then lemcmtx unlexkcd back ||j| picked up an eiivp night stami, atNN^j out laughing, whdV l^WilU* stack of twenties, anct.J||ptd them down my pants, before quickly
tike a!growingf were.I careili the basement wi pulled it ot| to step on. j window and) Freeze/ sending me I looked up to;- laughing in the
The back doofi I felt secure wl in the kitchen, ) the hardest part off over, and because Bobby watched oaf was surprised at th started to get scared, staggered through house, and latched arm. I remained me my eyes started to gained my courage, looked around the* in. There w'as a large fireplace, beautiful at nishing, and a soft blemished by dog shit.'rhese dude*s got concluded., Our ritual seemed not justified, but rebelliousty* because we robbed from people richer than us.Buddy grabbed a Revolutionary War muske t from above* the fireplace.I wonder if this things real? he asked."Cbukl be". I ignorantly irplicd, maybe its an heirkxrni."
It aitii a fucking heirkxmi, 
Buddy snapped, its a
I threw o}x*n the top of the fcxxlocker. rhis guy must have* every fucking Penthouse* eve*r printed, Buddy assured me.I started lcx>king through the* collec tion, and pulk*d out the* May 1975 issue*. I flip|x*d through the* jxige*s, until I re*mc*mlx*red I was tfed, and put the* magazine in ick xxket.ni finish searching this rex>111,11 ge*t the* others, so we* ran up and gel out of he*re. I red, and dont leave without
mvAs I we nt through the first bedrexHii, I found some pictures of tlx* girl who ap|xire*ntly slept hen*. Slie* wasnt as pietty as my rlfrieixl, but liad a ckiin whole*- ic look. I texik lx*r diaiv from de**k, but couklnt read it,, itise* it was dark. I stuck the* ures, and the diary in my and left.* pink wall and crucifix wen* [st things I noticed. when I
nd the*
^eeeeeeOfic'KKl%iibby crtShit, I cursed, were surrounded.C Ionie 011, I/is ge*t exit of Ixre, Bobby pk*ackd. I Just shut up and lay low/HI i ordered.I aint staying...Just shut up and lay low,Ix fore* I brc*ak your fucking head!"I grahlxd tlit* phone, thank Gexl it was a push biiuon, and lead the 
;k1c1ic*ss of the house* we were ill,117 7th Street, off a near by letter.Yc*s sergeant, Id like to re*|x>rt a bieaking and entering at my ix*ighbors house*, at 117 10th Sheet. Ilxres one boy in the*.front yard..and jt kxked like thtee otlxrs went in the* basement wiixlow."My name* sergeant...Jimin* Page, I live ne*xt dex>r.I kx>kcd exit the front wiixlow, aixl cursed when I siw tlx* jxdiee car sto)> in front of tlx* house*. I

---------------------------------------------------

5
was ready to bolt out of the door, but sighed with relief, and I saw the }x>lice car speed off.Pigs, Pigs! I screamed to buddy and Little Beans, as I fled.Bobby seemed to be lightyears away, by the time I reached the front yard of the house, behind the one we had broken into. As I rami into the street, I was caught in the path of high beams. God fucking dammit, I cursed, as I noticed they were from a police car. I hurried through the next set of yards, hopping a chain link feme, dropping my Penthouse,
bitch?I breathed a sigh of relief, as I looked up at the overhang, which had just hidden me from the cops view. I turned my heat! to set* the ground four floors below me, and i lightened my grip 011 the clothes line, whic h I c lutc hed so dearly. j The cops kept {lacing the roof. Jj Are you sure this is the same | building he went into?Well he fits the desc ription oC the kid who ran into that momma-mia on the second flex>i;. My arms started hurting, and an intense* pain started to inc rease in my fingers, and ac ross my palms.That momma-mia was pretty fat...maybe she was hiding the little runt under her dress?They both started laughing, as 1 cursed under my breath. Stop laughing you motherfuckers, and get off die fucking roof, before* I get up there and fucking kill you. in a stiff wind, and started feeling very cold. I thought my. teeth;,w%e going to start shattering,  f bit down hard on 1 
Up, and felt my face 
tmwc&l in pafjk Suddenly an intense desire ,tp urinate came over me, and i think I would have, if I the money down my my legs, and held
darted across through an&j dcxlged route find myself r street, where cops.unofficial #dh middle 
mbSso. 7th, 8th, 
&j0the working q&bodd on 10th Street  means I ho longer yarcb#run through
f> chasing me down ^mother running 
M dtded I better te the nearbv
ixtnts 
011 tilhave been waitmg|| 
1 the door, and as we iflg out, he couldvethe stairs^ ig doubt it. I dont i4 #Ot|td have enough I
right 1 camel snuck
think j brains
ing aims right ped the dcx>r, and 
% startled rookie ?se fucking punks |e going to out smart another fucking thingJbem.and die, you fat mother* knight, as the jxiin ith intensity, rs felt like they were sconc'd off by the rojx*, dders felt like they pHppcd from the sockets lent, but I still held 011. it. I thought, I can {ticking take it.he must have went pipe1. The other
shit, I should have went thwii the drain pipe*, I thought. ^HWie cops apprcxiched the edge ISfc building.^There aint no drain pijx*, this gilding got a flat roof.*'Why aint there a fucking drain pipes , I cursed to myself. p|;My fingers were* becoming j|t*mb, and the tears running down my cheeks felt like they were about to freeze. Oh God, I thought, oh God please.I I bit down on my lower lip so hard it startedto blexd.G-3, possible suspext on west side of route 95. Over.That must be* him! I heard one of the* cops cry, as thc*y both headed for the* stairs.No matter how weak my arms felt, I had enough strength to pull
Spaghetti ! yelled, as Ipushed her out of the way, and fled. It was the only Italian word I could think of at the time.I raced through the door to the rcx)f, but stopped in shcx:k, as I looked around. There secerned to be no place to hide, and no way down.Being tough was another important part of being ccx>l, and we believed that our ritual toughened Us up, by making us do battle with the police. By enduring the forces of the law, we believed we became tough enough to do battle with the rest of society.I heard the officers, as they Paced about the rcx>f.I hat little motherfucker got to be up here some where.I held my breath in silence, as I heard them approach, and look over the edge of the* roof.Where is the little son of a
Inyse lf onto the rcx>f, collapse* 011 *.I had theff^Wiy back and light a c igarette*. The I Just ~ ^v^i'Jirst 011(1 I had in over two hours, guts to Was still shaking after the*so I lit a joint, and went it. I herald !v::jo die edge* of the building, to se*eone of iten curse, making me think they might be about to give 
ii*x 'However, they kept facing the rcx)f, as the pain in my arms multiplied. My fingers started slipping, and burning on the rojx\ i started to think that I should give up. Ixvause they weren't going to leave until they found me. I l<x)ked down at the grouiilj but realized I wouldnt stand a chance if I let go, and fell to the pavement.I saw a police air pull hp in front of the house*, with Little* Beans in the back seat. A fat sergeant got out, opened the back dcx)r, and grabbed Little Beans by his long hair. If you dont shut up about them fuc king handcuffs hurting your wrists, Im going to
i; if there were still cops be low. At that moment I saw Buddy, musket I in hand, run up the cmhaiikmcnt of tlie highway. When he saw the cops that awaited him on 10th Street, he* froze for a short mome nt. Long enough however, for a puroffieer to take aim, and cry. He only tex>k one* step, before berng thrown into the* 10th Street traffic, by the* officers well aimed bullet. I ran to the* dcx>r, ami down a flight of stairs, but stopped. I kne w Id get busied, if I ran to Buddys Ixxly. I we nt Ixu k on the roof, but couldnt bring myself to Ux>k over the edge. I kne w it would lx* hours before the* cops left now, so I sat down and finished my joint. Alone I waited, enduring the* cold winds, which wen* starting to get strong. It was all xirt of the* ritual.

---------------------------------------------------

Chance Encounters at the Beaux 
Arts Ball
by Bob Brenner 10:30 We arrive late at the Gates of Delirium, er, the main entrance of the College of Fine Arts. My escort, Smita, has had some last minute trouble with her Egyptian Cat Goddess costume; even now she struggles with recalcitrant safety pins that refuse to stay closed.
Hmmm, should be interesting when 
shes dancing with wild abandon later. 
Will the cat come out of its bag?WTe wait in line. Security is tight now at what promises to be The Big Party of the Semester. The individually numbered tickets are carefully scrutinized and compared against a master list of numbers already crossed off. A grim-faced young man sitting behind a table in the entrance way looks piercingly into our eyes.At this point in time theyre still very on top of things and very Professional, but later onoh, around two or so when the euphoria of the event has overcome even the most fascist temperaments, security will go limp and anyone wearing a costume will be able to stagger in.11:00 I am dressed as a soldier: army fatigues, ammunition belt, and a toy tommy gun. Its tempting to say that this is my fantasy, that I envision myself as a Soldier of Truth trekking through the steamy Jungles of Chaos...But it would be wrong. Actually, these are just a few things lying around--the Ball ticket w&s a whopping fifteen big ones, and it was financially unsound to lay out any more capital on accoutrements, (maybe once President Reagan has finished stoking the economy, Ill be able to afford a better costume, but somehow I doubt it.)My good friend Judi, who happens to be an emphatic JAP, is dressed as a Nazi. I encounter her on the edge of the dance floor, beneath the pulsing disco lights, and she stirs something in me:
Oh that riding crop! Oh those spiked

---------------------------------------------------

heels! Oh that dominant Prussian bear
ing! Are you ready for the Final Solution? as Herr Elvis Costello would 
say. To which my physiology responds with an emphatic Ya! Achtung! Not unmindful of the phallic symbolism, I press my gun barrel to her Valkyrian chest and try to expose some more of the firm white slopes of the Motherland. But just then Adolph Hitler comes striding 
by and reoccupies his lieutenant. Order must be maintained. They disappear into 
the swirl of the dance floor and I am left 
to contemplate empires that might have 
been.Since weve opened the subject, lets* talk about costumes a bit more. There are 
lots of famous couples: Romeo and Juliet, Jake and Elwood, the X and Y 
sperm cells, a pervert and his party doll 
(with three life-like holes for the ulti
mate in pleasure), Jesus and his 
cross...A few imaginative group efforts: a Chinese dragon, the Loch Ness Monster 
(with accompanying bag pipe player), the principle characters from /, Cladius...and 
1 plenty of weird solo adventurers: the Empire State Building, a man swathed 
entirely in saran wrap (at some point during the festivities, part of his stayfresh package is torn, so that his entire 
right derriere is exposedcheeky lad), a 
can of Iron City beer, bear on roller 
skates, a woman as a Jackson Pollack 
painting, slathered all over with luridcolored paint. The Fine Arts Building 
itself is decked out in flashing lights and 
long cylindrical clear plastic tubes remin
iscent of giant sci-fi intestines. (The 
College Building That Ate Its Undergraduates! Just when you thought it was 
I safe to go back to school...) Realitys a 
tenuous concept at best, and its good to 
j see so much effort being put forward to 
rip it loose from its moorings altogether.Toto, I have a feeling were not in f Kansas anymore.No shit, Sherlock.1:00 A Conversation with a Real Live # Rave-Up. The drummer. We are in the Alumni Concert Hall, and Jack Purcell Swing Band is in, well, full-swing. Were both sitting it out. The drummer is wearing a Porkpie hat and has two blonde females in his company. Each blonde female, strangely enough, is named Suzy.Me (gushing): Are you really a RaveUp? I read all about you in the Tartan....He (with a certain bored disdain): There are several inaccuracies and distortions in Paul Smiths article that tend to place its entire verity in doubt.Me (back-pedalling): Oh, well, I never believe anything that comes out in that rag. Never even read it in fact. Heh heh heh. Heh. Say, what do you think of the Psychedelic Furs?Since weve sort of touched on the
subject of music, back in that last vignette, this might be as good a time as any to mention The Disco:The Disco is a disappointment. Nice to have the flashing colored lights and all that, but... First of all, the sound system is concentrated on only one side of the of the Fine Arts main floor. Naturally, this causes the celebrants to all crowd into one relatively teenytiny area. This, in turn, engenders gridlock. (Cincinnati! Cincinnati! Look! Its the Pope!) One cant flail about properly without belting Judy Jetson in the nose or crushing the groin of some BEM.Second, the choice of platters to spin is slightly less than adventurous. Mostly last years Donna Summer hits and a few acceptable New Wave tunes, such as Call Me and Whip It. Very uninspired fare; I expected more imagination from our future leaders in aesthetics.3:30 Waiting on line for breakfast. A

---------------------------------------------------

lonnngg wait. Standing on some spiral stairway that leads into the bowels of Fine Arts. More of those plastic intestinal tubes hanging down (several stories) of the center stairwell.Oh Lars, I say to my friend Lars, I think were being ingested.Shut up and keep moving! says the woman behind me. (Not everyones fascist temperament fades with time.)4:00 We arrive at the food dispensing station. We get to see what weve been waiting so long on line for: Catfood! This is catfood! screams the woman behind me.  Where the fuck is the quiche?I must admit the meal is not sumptuous: cheese and crackers, a little bit of spread (unindentifiable), and a tiny bottle of champagne. Coffee. At least theres coffee. But the woman behind me keeps screaming:Catfood on crackers! Catfood on crackers! And,  pausing to take a deep breath, to make sure everyone hears her, the spread looks like BOOGERS!4:30 Once again in the Alumni Concert Hall. I am sitting behind my friend Sue. Earlier in the evening, I observed Sue in an elaborate Mae West costume; now, I note, she has a simple party dress on. I make inquiry concerning her change in venue.Someone threw up on me, Bob. Someone threw up on you?Yeah, this girl, I dont even know her, just came running up and vomited on , me. She puked and puked and puked, until she had nothing left to puke. I couldnt get away.Indeed. Sometimes our fates are inescapable. Thats why it pays to wear rubber or plastic or other easilycleanable, space age materials.5:00 Norm Nardini and the Tigers are just finishing up their set. People are dancing, having a very good time; Im still sitting down. The rhythm guitarist is churning out power-chords by whipping his strumming arm around windmill-like, in the approved Pete Townsend manner, and I observe him with some misgivings.
God, will rock'n'roll ever be free of its 
cliches?Suddenly, I sense a presence at my feet: Norm Nardini, good show-man that he is, has brought his guitar out onto the dance floor, down to the people. Hes scrunched himself up on the floor and is ripping out what is supposed to be an intense guitar solo. *He also happens to be scant inches from my chair. If I want, I can deliver a terrific boot* to his head.
Naw, I think lazily, If I do that, his 
whole band will jump on me, and people 
will think Im a bad guy. Better to ignore 
him.Norm finishes his contortions and scampers back on stage, where he belongs.
5:30 The Rave-Ups are into their settheir FINAL final Pittsburgh performance. Seems to me they played a previous final performance over at the Electric Banana just the week prior. Guess the boys just cant say goodbye to home.Never can say goodbye....Strange how fate plays tricks on us: Michael was in my screenplay writing class. Now hes gone on to be a Rave-Up,and Im, Im......Dead and blown away. Busted flat in Baton Rouge. Just plain unmitigated tired. No way Im going to party any morethese other folks, they must be on drugs or something. I feel very old The partys over...I collect my coat and stumble home. 12:30 Brrrrg. Wha-? A little disoriented. 
Dorothy, where are you? Its so cold 
Ohhhh, the phone. Somewhere. Over. 
There. On the. Wall....Where I left it.
Got to answer it, got to stand up
My legs! Oh my legs!...Til never dance 
again. The end of a brilliant ballet 
career....or was it soccer?I answer the phone. Its an alleged friend. She stayed until the very end of the Ball, around 7:00 a.m. She had r great time. Now she feels as fresh as a daisy and fit as a fiddle and Ready to Bop Again.Uh-huh, thanks for the information. Now let me go back to sleep, goddamn you.My friend is forty years old.

---------------------------------------------------

fT
>YvTv'T'- 
..^...j;. v
44-
The NwspN
: ify ^d^ .1% E^er'y \ f Jf H
.Xy.v.J.   4 ? ?4,,
i 2  TTTi^w.* * 2 a I :
Thef
f;
-
*
TtT4"5
-frfT<4x^1^.,^
f-'4^4^>4.
*v-X444+f
**%&$**#<4:^,,,|,,|,|^
4_L44*
4-H*T44-4-14-
5|v,-|y
44 4;byAb
!444+4
;  t4
f'''4w4"ly4^
*4+44::]'j;. _ir
wf4T|
 - y
44--.
f~r
4.4v.
t rooms;
'4fe&wTl&ai the open i^iridoili i f
4^44^
She is:wajCijig'foi: lightfliHgtUiUi t--I-t/ 
to break this..ear.: ::;:' a silent riot of flowers. \ ::.Wishing the watcrdiops a swelling, she pokes a cicada horn the screen. :;For hours with closed eyes'---is the H&ffi: >%'Ttrnfrt
. A. ^.....^
|w|*4i4w
44'
JLL
>V:.Aw-&t4^H4Tf44-l l H'l4-y4TlXfTi^.4.>.i I * ! i M I
k.vl^. v j , ^ ^ I I ^ f W I
t^''" s;> V .
iTu+
"44*pyf
Inde
?,44"T>T>
nnpd#4*4
wi i. i.
444
 i,v-4s-ptcow^
-44-
't'XTA^-"tit*4nhjMgwjjl '
^44-444

---------------------------------------------------

10
10*'$*' 'teV > ?<i '.iii Wv\.:<.<^<j? H41?;?'.'<V T ' V:*-
;i *4' K# liicefif '-tes fe &>.? i4 : '' ? ?::'.-yi?'* ? ir *"'V-.- I.HV **&*?} ;>>  !j\'::',-:'- '-V.
r 2****^2}. t*..W ; . : ':' >< ' &Hfc',V />/*Kvr* W** ' v^'' ... ..'V ,: 
Haflfc > n  >: . :  / ' r;. '' .
* &' iiiJ? ;>af;Vi < . 'T* *y  *' '. ,V jfr ; '? * 3*  > * . iti*  >:art hij1' f> mfr i "  *<f ' ^<**r -m1 faff, -y & > .s* * ***  *w* * : ***, ( Mvf ' & - <* ;. :h mu.', *t> & * %-'  Sis'* :- ::  ' ..v:.:,,.  -i f/0iitt&. ' ;i?' i
*< * '%  * - 
'*& ^ set l-'*** V K: x*<:
:a::-gays> V :'5>' ftC ,.*  -
- ;  vf^ *"*? **.'< mi &**> ' -'
Mk' -f .(;,-'. *h :;M  **;&* ..vn*-#: -m % r .y : :P
m :  : V *&* ifc <<r<! ( <x  : i? 'A3 n*x'$M' i  - ^ : *v'*v'>'**. V
o on s is fT s? ' <4: 14H ^ --i 3'6 19 *' l't,f.M.-  ^ : m-n?*- jU..u%&Li: mrt&i-, (V, >$3 vv . ?":  '.fti&ii-"' >. .- : v;-,j^i. V, ; g'W<s
;> / <<;.* '18'' ;%. ^  ' '
'$S*r$i **f fiVr^>U <?*#,-;r ' 
: v;::,.;|. m<-Km :"v *
?tv'* '?vrcf >< K '-'> M ^.........
( w -M{,< : : V 4 R > -> < : ' - - -;m - .;?V^ ' -%fScV-^-V^.yt: >: j'aiV. Sf? i&* * .... ^;M|  ,3t v. ^
y|ffl PvSriSlT-^'* ^.4S:rv5 '
*5 -v >ctsf'  '-1 '*m& * '>:.?v mm **M$Wm  !w^
- >:V. , - jft H . . >:'? ^ 'r ;, ' ""' 'Nte? ^  j >- S>'::' :?: V. ;;  ' '* >*Vfei :;>|
" -1' .f<v ' rfixt-1 fes* Vv' s.-*M V- *', ?}- '% r1^" {5< >>>
,j' ' ! r)*J f / -(< #<>*  *# Vi':^. *>? .> ' >* -> - -jj. Ftfi* .J^f
: :. mmw& tt m ^" 1 i/ ' ks*\*.r^ .. ><  t v> ; f yi t_ ' ' t KnVW;* f*> ' - -fe? :< i ?$* -*' -^tW., :<*.>;: '?- %~.i ^5 -^'^ s*> wbt-vipic
- *- 4 . X>!:;  .^s s
,;x: <.**'-. , $f\U. vftkt'. --x  *  :;'iiw'-- >' ^!5*: ;# r:.s-:?i" * -5f  : -  : ' .-4 :k* %>:i '^'". S'V : -> fe V. iWitV0'> ?  ;':   H3* - "::.< <}< s-<j:^rt >: vV:.. ; ;M*. *' >'?* 5?. Hafr ;>^R CHcr W yteli rihCrn
Mf-U s. >> o yud -^:-; ' - .v - - :; '\i->i . rtPi'S -< KS^ -..-. -::;v ; --,,;'f! ... " M;'-  ' '  : i Vf:":5.1Cl.   wt ,s?
mr<: w
%% is-v ag^sbB? >m^. 
;S-< |I>i|:'Vi 
rtrjK-'f % '*. - :*. :** . 4*tfzrpp>cif * -'ftv'>wm .m* it tt* km#**-' Hmm <?'> *^i 'it? ? nco s
Hr l C WOOMEN SH t - -.* ^ HtfSdr Uuri 3 &in ^-S - - - * Xr&rt&t#>ti% 8?
n  'iicV - -ti. *$4 * tri >} $ ?s# '
-^?: ' 2^1  <r    > ! >fe-to.M)#?- 4 >S7 Harr 1 SJS ?*>
> ^S SlnW ->:.{" - :M*  ' 'VM+1 l >*fir3 4> V ::; V. Wv  cfi f: >U;,ff .:- " r 
UtW9$- ihu
..........i4'Wit> tan M* -
A LEOTRV o^ff R4>] K 'jiV.i IV *< ' ; J ,*'- 5JI63 H ' Kwft^ i sr vwiem$24'Ii4 Ha?'? ?5i 1 C7spl rsry737JSJi H3< >-.'4f ' : : v:^iSi5V:-' ' '>  jf?: H?rr &,*?i<;!' ; "4:.; f| %$l} H^r'v-i&if' iitV'sU^
'S'JS $-f 4 i/03 K' :.^ >^2*? ?*'* :; -r - PV |4 uulrm W? c?<- ^- i 5^^ ?. -.,. - - -\& 'MM ( n.r.-! ;> -- Har'' V&oH  '&;. H;>?':'' -' - .2<i ' i: ; ':*'- li!! S;5fc -: Ha?*? > *|/ >> :.A* r' "'; xjafi*? . :, ; Km**>.' -fs?* HSywUv'W. ?? *-:v(fc4': - : .-.: ?>* 5# * V*WfisN***:"' "-: =* 5^ K'^ fe
'- i*9i42:, m*-9mmama * l im ^m^v,maftk  - -  5, %ifU/ ?,#}&$ %7?! 't?tltfpficWfo R 4 xrw&KyU - - W4* fr)&iii SS iu^ .............................. 33}y$<'n^n\vm9
-.atfv xwi'%Ww~ m*vM.iimsm fes>dkih  3??S OwvxB^ ' ?^3v 
' ?> ?J<I-44'^^*t3 &r< fi% - Tttirtssmw mH ni Cntwimagt Kt m  r-94?%- Kcfe >fev? t?eM p cm m&m mm m*&mit# ,m &M A ir> A-^a-s? - -
^3ffp>2 ^ <.6 *- .?('  ' -4<Rp&M %??  ' - 'm**
>f5fcf S&jJstv iv'; f^c* ?*>:*Hr&ir 4^- - :  A'^ - ---------- - .i*'f*'  - -, ' 
IC,.y' N son!fh s !ei Owats pvHix> O ?'  .ir y#? H. iv -; '' - 'v-..v.:'jt#-;^v p* c J><tA>f'9 a5 a-;<'jSa - ^ ;:
rt:-8^r ?^-C %$%t.-ir^ ?#f S?iM<5fe'
' 'i-'tt*rri* 8 & ? v ->::-!3r-iS  :.H %v:(; - ^S-'% S :; > -v "' WSrjSt S 0 4 - '<<(; ? ;ii4  ySv !<rt'< &V ^ ^VIV a   Hv a *#*''': i:?-Kf ^ 1<V 
M. -r* - >
**S
Hgws.. ^cj V.,? M  -. Av .<..{'. t* M -< ?. ;" j i-vN^-' : ; -.) ^C>CsJ...v >.. .- . pipi / ...v .. . .
^-^MfjS 1S*Sh?
Scw i m r&m *  g^ftd t - - ' - ams Stesi SHafwifCt ^r/a?> Rj  - v*,l&iMso* R'4^y ?^(etS;^:rSftd Ri? Wi lti.
yt2$x?i84'i ate? * v'& > ..<; :?i M-- . v - HSt 'tk <s ^^jCjife - >g?a-2S?S .->J'^ I / Sfisf ,aA 0^ "fT^TSSS, Sifo*  - * 'Hw * -, >' >; "*:. -^weHh ' '>>:)-i''- . . y:';:4<J<;   Vi?--? si --, . '-n-^- < 
H'* **i  1^ '- a -.'-<^ y-r >.- v -mi-mi Hs-. s.: * .<,  ,,x o. * - 24> vfM nirut.A<i*t s%- ' v-*: ; - -,;.-S<, , -- : ?kk-Sl^i;4  , ; * :-r:<> ' t>
V.  "k-nsAi. W.Si S3 C V ~. P V* ^ ' ,,; 3i;>>, kc.t  Tytfi > :
&&>i ( :. .iti ( iy&r-t  ><
JJ Wlh> rtl r<'-r<- <,nvm ;>.>.> *ml^ '^4* :~wM.:t?* s>*i;n ^ai*H? .<'-  ;i><y ^5 ivV ft'aKsrrlfWf. 0IW' *t\** - r.k<>
-i*'- ^g/
^-/i;^^PPR53?Wu>s:J'-t' ' *S ,'>  W t:>< H i i-fe: ^(>y , << >..*.->i<v.v<.. * ,,,,,,,,,f.HARRIOT .TMAS N .;
?l * H??s9! % *4 ...........-8t3 ' 145 ? HW;y<W A '-MZ. iwirxM b* - rn&m m r^m kmrnitt m mm'm - i*3Wl v -  '^t-%' b-tfyM-bf #& v> ?->.. >J| -0/ f t W* wm$<w0t-m*i iteyS i > ;c ^'..1 ;<?v<'iaH#) iz?. t i':- -r,^ -Mrtm:- '&> fa..* '. '  ' ' ^ '*. '4y
H*f rschi. |?s% ? ^T Stofiit <
tmmp, ?es>fe* f6H^issn $?.* 3?. ;r^> - >Twrjf ^? IM?**# *.tfis - - ia?*s8 Thw 3 t-^ -> - - - " >^2r3^ g^  SSsfeteO > '. y,- toitMpi t%5 l8J4 ^*e8  ^Jim  Wfmte '%%* & ' Hmmtfim va&y
WHITE PAGES
~;'v;-. :: t'~ WHtgfr; sv.,Ute r*t - ---
,, pt-m* u<y& ri'ztwtih - -*m ho# %.c*r-a%^ **m LPy Auy -  tf 9*r'K&-ri'* &>'** t
iuvm' ^f*wH'<'
HMrHSft VX&Jtel> t< v ^,%*& tmmmrtxm? - , , . & * fafafii&fp Hvmm *mtr -- - ,Ks'tvm, mm C &i trato* '  tftiSG* tyifaifw ; m 'i,-,mi Kmssm? vrvtoep Hxfa um f mt ofew^r
 * > iVi mmeimitrsM*mmmX$#m Hxfrxs* tmmto
'Wi -? >"'-&': , , ,,<<!rzStVi -"m>*,< ,  5; '- - 4.:;>!>''-.<J.., .. ' :v  ?'>- --C - 'torWlc r !%i'  # '"' "*' - ?3' /% -N..
^ <  ' > t 'A- - :'inri-p<M> >Sfk ??> -? ....Mi'tii 'Mmnitz M<c t W*5?8"$7^ U5si.v^r.*  wtu&yim*'>'. '-<! -,4 ... ;.>. ' 'i'.'^5* V3v' : *&$#<>- riM tik\, a* ' ?y:"tf;-.-: -  . ,&s$:''Z' , *&'.iVueC'i-y< W -;>D34;/i>4h'>  ' Hdtt C95 ?y35 H-HH... .;< p^tn '# Y  :,('ri>-t. . ' - -.<>.' K f.h ^ Vi1..:'H ^ \s.i>> W#-'*rti-<!y*i.'i ftaniti.?* ?"
i^vki/fyrnifF* A*. j,Ti*rv -
51'.' ;->>7 ?<? '/^wmte<ZI'IW* .", ',-^. fc-itit V' < -'*&: Jfe Sr<jts^ aftsf - ># rxikivr p.
, K ,i )
PI STERNE SLAVEN
X Vri ??#. ^  SXC'C<^'r> y :
m**m nif .*** 
\ hsk 4m.dfpb im m*M> m>  * ^ %., ^

---------------------------------------------------

Peter Landers waited under a plexi
glass Manhattan bus stop for an 
uptown 51c. It was early in the even' 
ing, but already dark. It was winter and 
it tends to get dark earlier in the winter.
For the first time in a week the 
temperature had broken 16. It was 
37. To the people in New York 37 felt 
warm. Snow that had fallen on Mon
day was beginning to melt. It was in 
plowed piles on the curbsgreyed 
from car exhaust and dirtleaking out 
from the bottom. The tires of cars 
dragged the snow puddles across the 
city, until it looked like rain had fallen 
on the streets. The headlights of cars, 
and the traffic lights, and lit windows 
of delicatessens sank in rippled lines> 
for miles into the slick black pavement.
Peter Landers waited for the bus. 
The 51c. Uptown.
There was a light maVoon haze over 
the dinnertime Manhattan. Peter 
couldn't see it though. He was stand
ing in it. So were the other people in 
Manhattan. They couldn't see it either.
It was like standing in a spotlight. The 
people in northern New Jersey could 
see it. To them Manhattan glowed like 
a cigarette in a closet.
Except maroon.
Not bad for light and pollution.
Martha Ann Harriot couldn't see it 
either. She was sludging up Columbus 
Avenue to the plexiglass bus stop 
where Peter Landers waited for the 
51c. Uptown. She was a short plump 
woman with a grey wool overcoat and 
small black galoshes. She was carry
ing two brightly colored shopping bags 
by their rope handles. Her shoulders 
slumped as if the shopping bags held 
filled aquariums.
For the last ten years she had lived in 
the apartrment of her daughter Jean 
on the upper west side. Her daughter 
had only been in the apartment herself 
about a year before her mother had 
unexpectedly come to live with her.
Martha Ann Harriot had come from 
Iowa to stay with her oldest child, after 
her husband, son, and two other 
daughters had been killed with a hunt
ing rifle in their home outside of Des 
Moines. Her brother and sister-in-law, 
who were visiting at the time, had also 
been killed. Peter Landers had killed 
them.
Small world.
Peter Landers had lived by himself in 
Cedar Rapids, Iowa for most of his life.
He had left for New York about the 
same time Martha Ann Harriot had. He 
had left because his fourth family 
killingthe Bynam Kelletswas not 
totally successful. Two of the Kellets 
had fled the house through a second 
story window, with what Landers felt 
was surely an accurate description of 
him.
He had no desire of going to jail for 
his crimes.
He had left Iowa.
Quickly.
He had killed only families whose 
last name was the only one of its kind 
in the phonebook. The only other 
clause was that the single name fall 
between two popular, or heavily 
represented names. Thus the Harriots 
fell between the Harringtons, of which
there were 32, and the Harris', 121. 
This is the only thing the slayed fami
lies shared, a solo spot in the white 
pages.
The reason Martha Ann Harriot 
hadn't been killed along with the rest 
of her family is because she had 
received a phone call from a neighbor 
down the road in near hysterics. Mar
tha Ann had gone down the road to 
calm her.
The problem was this.
Anita Bails had left her car running 
when she went into the cleaners to 
pick up a jacket she was having 
cleaned. When she returned to the 
street a minute later, her car was gone. 
She was very much afraid that when 
her husband (who was not a well 
gathered man and whose name was 
Corky) got home the next day, he 
would beat her up.
It was not unusual for Corky to beat 
Anita up.
He beat her up for letting the car get 
stolen.
When Landers burst into the house 
and splattered dead six Harriots with 
the Remington 12 gauge pump action 
rifle, he was upset that Martha Ann 
wasn't there. He hadn't seen her 
leave. He hadn't watched the back 
door. He was pretty upset.
. When he killed the S.L. Shentons 
between Shelton, 45 and Shepard, 
28-he was not aware of a son Daniel 
who was in Chicago for three months. 
Daniel Shenton returned when he 
heard that his family had been shot 
with shells the size of a pinky. He took 
on living in the house by himself and 
the name was not etched from the 
Phonebook.
Shit.
Two teenage girls from northern 
New Jersey joined Landers at the bus 
stop. They couldn't see the maroon 
haze either. They were heading home, 
perhaps to get a better look at it.
Landers looked at his watch and 
stuck his hands into his pockets, he 
wasn't thinking about family killing. If 
he had been, this is what he would 
have thought:
"I was a good family killer. So what if 
I fucked up a couple of times. At least I 
never got caught. And unlike some 
family killers, I knew when to quit. Cold 
turkey. Haven't even thought about it 
in ten years."
Martha Ann Harriot sludged.
Her steps were small, like a 
dachsunds.
This is where Landers differed in 
theory from Alcoholics Anonymous. 
He thought of his family killings as part 
of his far past. He was no longer a 
family killer. If he had belonged to 
some sort of rehabilitive program he 
would have had to say: "Hi, my name 
is Peter Landers. I am a family killer. I 
haven't killed a family in over ten 
years."
But Peter Landers wasn't thinking 
about this, he was thinking about TicTac-Toe. He had a new theory.
It went like this.
Both players try to lose.
The first player is forced to place 
three X's on the board before the O 
player makes his first move, after that
moves are alternated in the usual 
fashion. As long as the O player 
doesn't place three of his men in any 
given row, the X player can't lose. Even 
if he works at it, he can't even force a 
draw.
Yes, O must not fuck up.
Peter Landers considered all of this 
as the tires of cars and cabs stretched 
puddles across the island of 
Manhattan.
Martha Ann Harriot reached the bus 
stop and glanced down Columbus 
Avenue for the bus. The rope handles 
of her bags were stinging marks into 
her soft old hands. The bags didn't con
tain filled aquariums, but they were 
heavy nonetheless. She had been car
rying them for the better part of the day 
and had no intention of setting them 
down on the damp sidewalk. The bus 
would be there shortly, she hoped.
One of the bags contained half of the 
dinner she had ordered at a small cof
fee shop and then failed to finish. It 
was half a chicken sandwich and 
some undressed salad. Martha Ann 
Harriot looked forward to getting home 
and setting her feet on a corduroy otto
man. She hoped her daughter Jean 
would want half a chicken sandwich 
and some undressed salad.
She had no idea she was standing 
next to the man who had left 17 bullets 
in her family.
Landers continued to think about 
Tic-Tac-Toe. Would it work if player X 
moved just twice at the start.
Martha Ann Harriot had met Land
ers once, two days before her family 
had been killed. She had come home 
from the market and found him stand
ing at the lip of her front yard. He was 
looking at the house and writing in a 
small datebook. She had said hello and 
asked him what he was doing, Landers 
turned and looked shaken. He made a 
loud swallow, "L.I.J'm with the uh, 
town. We're checking out all the prop
erty around here. Tax stuff," he had 
said and abruptly walked up the block.
No, twice would not work.
X would have to move three times.
And so they waited at the plexiglass 
bus stop. Landers shuffled his feet and 
read the temperature spelled out in 
little yellow bulbs off a bank sign, 36. 
It was getting colder. Martha Ann Har
riot looked at the back of Lander's head 
and thought about her feet on the otto
man and whether or not the head 
looked familiar. The two teenage girls 
from northern New Jersey talked 
about what they were going to do later 
that night. One of them, tall and thin, 
with straight hair and a lovely face, 
pulled feathers from a small hole in her 
down jacket.
Each time she pulled one out, 
another one jumped into the hole. It 
was like watching a magician pull 
scarves from his sleeve.
She was getting upset.
A bus came. Spreading snow pud
dles up the Avenue with the sound of 
masking tape being ripped from a wall. 
It was the 98.
Everyone but Landers got on the 
bus.
He was waiting for the 51 c.
Uptown.

---------------------------------------------------

Cinderella
in Duane SulU\
Things were different then. 
Your fairy godmother was more than 
the local connection, your trips 
more than mere diversions.
Like magic. you could draw almost 
anything from that suitcase: 
wit. (harm, anecdotes from abroad, 
almost anything. It was easy 
to keep the* thing going; you simph 
ignored the hands which were, 
in fact, removing your clgsc 
but would not stop at your feet: 
paid attention onl\ when the\ 
reac lied loi wallets.
You look at the mirroi, at a lace
that needs too muc h makeup.
and know too long you've been living
out oi that suitcase. But know also
that there is still time,
and othei ways to travel, that
that wand ref lec ting the1 light
in \om loom needn t be a blade.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

14
jfeo' 
lfl i 
llllli
SSS#1 i i
i 1 j
H
 fr Jm^ry zfecp took doser x& Wf 
' than a'th&'of Oa^taf&er^ dine, for  
be Se mm&m ight rather tfeah jsevm+fsg* m&
':  feas nwtitie <jidtened f rotti th lemweiy 
\slide trio th day  was th rest of th 
.yxr. ma smimt driiLUp* ant t th 
. '. 3ha31 u? get th paper* imo ie shower, 
shave, eata pop-tart, and imo diedriwrs 
aeatr all in thimMave
. :; Buffine tn<3rnif*g bis tace w&intr-, 
xS'-y:-! : .= fttptd * % jVfty -:M
hetiflsed thesoap pm.Jht:1%swtib th
iQwer-tm^m* ** rfoor oi
ture of ihe mm dro|> as th m&m ;
 pi^eian^L .
Excuse me, hello?"
' /' '
lt vm a fudaog wramani In ht j hathroomi Ottong ftk hower! He .. quiddy shnt off th water, reached out j around th cariai tot m glasse^ took . 
dieta imm aia**&e tdfet tat#an pm ' - 
Hepeepdlmttotnbehitwll' * 
eurt&& at thewsd hlottdwontan p&x* 
mg tht th Ssa haM-oje dooir, <+What th fudc?* he 
7 salti.
m m 
Lia&en, Fm reali? sotry, site 
respotided in a oud anxiomvofce, *1mt 
1 rang your doorbeJl a od yen* dado*! bear 
me, W& Iheard ihe sh|^ij mi kne*v 
youd he in here> $inee it xvas unlodced i 
carn in* atd I ia% bssd ^urtjifer '
?--:J secotd, I live across thhall? -ili
After th imi few wofds Orristopher 
recog^ieed fan sbe was th woi^m who 
lval th bali Thts was wt?ird>
and tiot very nice at ai!
+>I just needed to eateh yoa baiare ywit 
ieif+ and lm sori of late ahedv> bt I 
jwst need your hrp far a little, Fm ^ary 
mterrupt ymt,"
I ie ^toc>d dri|)png, boking at te > I le 
had wked bds&e that shc wna sott of 
antaedve, bui he had ne ver introdtKitl 
. him^lf, She wosre dafk bm unifeb 
pauts and a light hiue shirt, ami black s 
$hoes> Shit, Ili4 thougHt An attrattive ^ >M 
%xjtnat}< wdi a 8<opped+p drain or 
; st>itvihir)g, in tny baih*cxm+ Sh+
"What^wha^s * th problemi he 
tiiitking ii-v irri<atin aj>parem.
+Iland oie that," He patnted io th blue 
terryrJth: bathrohe hung or* die diX)i.
"What? h,+>^5heairt^ ito th sma 11 
t<Xk ihe robe troni th hnoik <m 
th door andheld it out tohim< Hetook
%m

---------------------------------------------------

SI
iis
; .' : '. - :::- ': '  - -, .-:: :-
wmm&mmm.
rnmmmmmxm 
mi 5IP* isI 1
BilE: -il
1' 1
/  ' MWvX
*

---------------------------------------------------


