VARSITY CLAN BANQUET 
WILLIAM PENN HOTEL 
SATURDAY, JANUARY 17
SATURDAY NIGHT DANCE 
UNION, 9:30 
LAST DANCE OF TERM
VOL. XIX Wo. 15CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1925'
PENN STATE IS 
VICTOR OVER 
SKIBOS -SCORE 
AT END 34-21
Count is Tied at 19 Each 
With Only Five Minutes 
Left to Decide Contest
TARTANS SHOW
IMPROVEMENT
John Irwin Has Charge of 
Varsity While Lubic is 
111 With Grip
r:: i V ARSI T YCRL NB QUE CW LEGATEnrrrrtriEooTBALL MSI
chapIlKthurs..-:-|D R i V E WILL c th1te.ires  WILL
DR. WILLIAM M.
W'CODFIN SPEAKER 
AT30It has been announced 
the gold footballs which
v The second chapel exercises v i p* T rp f \ T\ A \f ' " ^ *UU* ,)eou Previously unnouncv Z"''|"7\T
ot the year will be held ThuisviK H I, I |\ I I I I I /i Y 1 oil would bo awarded nt the v I i H \
day at 12:30 in .lie Little Tliea: j L VJ 1 I 1 v general assembly will not be *
ter. Dr. William M. Woodfln, | _________.____ i given out until the Varsity
pastor ot tile Third United Presv t Clan luncheon
byterian Church ot Squirrel Hill, -r*. Roy H. Legate to Introduce
ADDRESS
ASSEMBLY
SATURDAY NIGHT DANCE 
TO BE GIVEN BY KILTIES! TO BE HONORED 
i AT BANQUET OF 
CLANS JAN. 17
...I
.mu linn iu'uii.  . f t .
it is intended that this award v Speakers Talk Will Mark
The Tartan basket ball tossers 
traveled to Penn State Saturday 
night minus the services of Coach 
Ben Lubic. and threw a scare into 
the natives, the score at the end of 
a hard-fought game being, State, 34; 
Carnegie; 21.
The score does not by any means 
indicate how closely fought the 
same was.. State jumped into the 
lead right off the reel when l-Iood 
caged a two-pointer, but_ the Skibos 
came right back, Captain Matter get
ting a point on a free throw and im
mediately afterward scoring ;; sensa
tional field goal from a very difficult 
'position. This gave the Tartan's a 
one point lead, and while State again 
took the lead a short time later, the 
Skibo .passers kept things .interesting 
throughout. The score was tied at 
four different times, but the brilliant 
work of the State team in the last 
five miutes of play was the .decid
ing factor of the contest.
Both teams were fighting hard dur
ing the first half, which ended to 
11 with the home team on the long 
end. .Acting 'Coach John Irwin gave 
the boys a good plan of attack be
tween halves and the team came 
right iback and tied the count in a 
couple of minutes of play. It be
gan to look as though State would 
have tb bow down to defeat. With 
only five minutestogo and the score 
tied at 19 each, State suddenly un
leashed a whirlwind offensive which 
carried them triumphantly to vic
tory. The Skibos were unable to 
cope with the fierce attack of the 
Lions, for Hamas and McVicker had 
secured the long range and were 
making field goals From the middle 
of 'the floor. 
The teams showed vast, improve
ment over the form displayed in the 
Princeton game. They were in far 
better condition arid showed the re
sults of the hard work they had 
been doing since the disastrous 
Princeton conflict. The floor work 
of Donohue and Matter was excep
tionally -good, While Lynch and 
Beede gave an oxcelleut exhibition 
of guarding. They took the rebound 
from the hanking hoard with great 
regularity, and were fighting hard 
throughout the game. Conrad put up 
liis usually fine game.
Coach John Irwijf of the Fresh
man quint had charge of the Varsity 
also - on this trip, due to the illness 
of Coach Ben Lubic, who has been 
laid up for several days with an at
tack of grippe. Irwin was certainly 
kept busy with both games on his 
hands,, hut he handled both teams 
nobly and had the "boys giving the 
best that, was in them. Coach Lubic 
will probably be back at his post this 
week, and he. will have a man-sized 
job awaiting him. The craclc Geneva 
team is to be met this evening at. 
Geneva,' while on Friday Wash-.Teff 
will be played in Little Washington. 
Both of the games will require the 
very best that is in the team.
It is rather unfortunate that Penn 
States does not meet the Tartans 
again this season, for it is felt that 
with a couple more weeks of prac
tice our boys will be at their best 
and will be able to hold their own 
with any of them. 'State College al 
ways seemed to he able to take the 
measure of the Tartans in basket 
ball and football.
(Continued on Page Three.)
v has accepted Dr. Bakers in vita 
I* lion to speak. *>
v This will be the first time v 
*> that Carnegie has been honored v 
by Dr. Woodfin's presence at v 
cha.pcl. He is pastor of one or v 
the largest United Presbyterian v 
v Churches in the city, and has v 
I* numerous friends among the * 
Ifaculty and the student body, v 
v Without doubt he will nave an v 
v interesting and inspiring mess--*:* 
*!- age to deliver. v
v There is to be no solo this y 
*> week, and the time usually alv 
-> lowed for that will be devoted * 
v to singing hymns instead. Mr. v 
?IJohnston will be organist.
Drive at General 
Assembly
TECHNON CLUB
TO SELL TAGS
will be made at this time 
I > an adjunct to the talk which * 
| Wally Steffen will give to the v 
j v team of. 1924. v
j v 9:30--'Phe football letters and v 
I :* the numerals for the Plobe team v 
j will be given out at the gener* 
1 v al assembly as announced be*1* 
< fore. v
Opening of Drive For 
Foreign Students
FOOTBALL STARS
TO BE HONORED
Proceeds From Drive Will | 
Be Applied to Helping 
Europeans
Still Later Ticks Off the Wire  
10:15Fifteen numbers of the "In All Seriousness" and Fea
ture Dance to be Given 
by Dramats
DEPARTMENT HEAD 
CALLED BY DEATH
Professor Page of Department 
of Secretarial Studies 
Dies Suddenly
The Student Friendship Drive will i . 
be formally opened today, January 13,! : 
with a special address at-the General j * 
j Assembly. The speaker will be Ray i ** 
| H. Legate, who is the executive sec-; ** 
retary of the Student Friendship *; 
{ Fund, which is an international as-1 
sociation. Mr. Legate, who has himi *; 
self visited many of the European j * 
colleges and universities, will tell of | ** 
the needs of the students of these: * 
colleges.
In a great many of the foreign uni
versities, the students pursue their j 
studies under great difficulties. The j 
conditions under which they live and j
WAS HERE SINCE 1920
present issue of. The Tartan *!
Iwere stolen from the truck on v 
*! the way to school. An award -II* of one free ticket to the gen'* I ____________
eral assembly will be given to v Carnegies football team which
anyone giving information loadv | nmde such a meritorious showing dur
ing to the apprehension of the v! ug the past season, Is to be rocomcrimirials; no questions asked pensed, at least in part, this morning
or answered.' * I whon, before an audience enthused
v ! with admiration and pride, they will 
10:45The Carnegie Inn is v j be presented with gold footballs. This 
now completed and open to the v j event has been oagorly anticipated 
publicfor inspection. Meals ? j by our football heroes, especially by 
will probably . be served some*1* j those wlio will loave us in June, for 
time in the near future. v i it is the culmination of their football
j careers at Carnegie.
** *** *?* ** * ** y  $ * * *** ** | Carnegie is honored this morning by
I the presence of Roy II. Logate, whose
This week there will b.i 
other of the popular Saturday 
night dances in the Union. 
This dance will ho held under 
the auspiues of the Kiltie Band 
and is the first they have over 
! held. The hours will be the 
| -I* customary ones, from nine to 
v midnight, and the assessment, 
the usual modest One of one 
v dollar and twenty-five cents 
j with everybody welcome.
| v This is to bo the last dance I
j *: of the semester. A good orchestra has been secured and 
*: the evening promises to he 
I * successful. The Kilties first 
| *: dance should be supported with 
v quite as much enthusiasm as 
I* are they themselves. The past 
v season has . been very successful for the band, and they hope 
I* to crown their efforts by means 
v of this dance.
B0WR0N ASSUMES 
CHARGE OF FORMAL
talk in behalf of the Student FriondKship Drive is the main feature of the
Buck James Resigns as Chair
man of Interfraternity 
Formal
attend school is most distressing. Due 
to the high cost of everything, food, 
j clothing and textbooks are often hard
PRELIM. TICKETS 
FOR PROM ON SALE date set for feb. 20
I* INFORMATION ON 
v TODAYS ASSEMBLY
Total Assessment Up to 
Four Dollars
On Wednesday and Thursday or last j to obtain. In some instances,, classes ' Second Ticket Sale Brings 
week, Carnegies flag stood at half j do not begin until early in the evej 
mast in memory of Professor Ernest j ning, because so many'of the students 1 
Victor Page, Department of Com-1 have to work a large part of t he |
merce, arid head of the Department of! time. It is quit:; common to find stu-1
Secretarial Studies, who passed away 1 dents from the best universities workj --------------- j .!
at his homo in Providence, Rhode Is-{ ing from eight to ten hours a day os I AT T TTTMtnnc n/j P H
land. | coal miners and common laborevs. jJUINlUKb MAY bU 
Professor Page had been ill for | Aspiring engineers and lawyers re-| ------------ 1 ..
more than a year, carrying 011 his 1 pair shoes and clean streets in order] The fact that there is to bo a Ju-1
work with a. full knowledge that in-j that they may be enabled to study, nior Prom, which is usually an out.!
evitable death might overtake him at | The aim of the Student Friendship j standing feature in ||he social cnlen-1 \
any moment. He suffered much, but j Drive is to raise money with which to I clar of Carnegie Tech, arid this years) J
never reflected his sufferings in his | alleviate these deplorable conditions, I affair promises to have equally as|
attitude toward his work and his as-! and so help foreign students to conj much and probably ! more splendor
sociates. He had been granted a i tinue their studies under more favorI than any of its predecessors, was last
leave of absence for the second semesable conditions. The European Stuweek very ably and strongly brought 
ter, but death claimed him before he dent Relief Which is maintained largeto the notice of those concorned by 
could take .advantage of this oppoiv j jy through -contributions made by! the posting of bulletin announcing
tunity for recuperation, by which he American colleges and universities, i.-> the sale of tickets lor the event, and j lovlate the suffering of the poor stu 
might have lived many'more years, responsible for this system of help-j by tIlR sale of preliminary tickets. I dents of Europe, struggling against a I-1 ,ot'
New Seating Arrangements. v 
All upperclassmen bn the main *:
1 floor.
Girl Plobos on the main floor, v 
Men Plobos On the first bal1 cony.
Time of Program.
Program will start promptly v 
 at 11:40.
Assembly will close at 12:-15. :*
program. Mr. Logate. who is presi
dent of the Student Friendship Fund I 
Committee for the ontiro country, has 
spent the past four years ovorsoati, | 
where he has beon ondoavorlng to alI
"Buck James, appointed head of 
the Interfraternity Formal Da hoe 
Committee, has resigned his chair
manship, Paul BoSvron * has boon 
selocted in his stean and has ac
cepted the position. Owing to excossivo school work, James could 
not carry the program through.
James is a Senior Chemical Engi
neer. a member of Delta Upsllon and 
Dragons, Selonco representative to 
Student Council, chairman of laat 
year's Student Friendship Drive and 
Social Commlitoo for i'.ampus Week, 
I and President, of Thota Tail honor
ary fraternity.
I Bowron Is a Junior ChennciU En
gineer, a member of Uio Beta THetu 
PI fraternity the teams team, and 
chairman of a Sophomore CommiiAfter graduating from Brown Uni-i ing the student. This is the fifth year j These preliminary tickets are neemost unsurmountablo odds to obtain 
versity, where he received his A.B. | of its existence, and since its Inaugu-1 essary in order that the various com I an education. No doubt Mr. Legate's
in 189(5, arid hi.; Masters Degree in 
190, Professor Page served as in
structor at several large high schools 
before coming to Carnegie in 1920. 
For many years he was head of\the 
Commercial Department of Brighton 
High school. Boston. Mass., and was 
considered a master at his work.
ration, has enabled approximately mittees in charge of the Prom will 1 talk will prove very Interesting and 
140,000 students to secure sufficient1 know exactly what preparations to, most effective In promoting the cause but .subject to change II more tliai:
Phe Intorfrilovnlty Formal Dauco, 
il. is thought, will he nold In the 
University Club February 2U. 102IJ,
clothing, food and books. This is a make and how many guests to expect, of the Student Friendship Drive, 
worthy cause and should have the Therefore it is urged that all Junlois This will be followed by "In All Sesupport of each and every one of us j who have not already dono so, and I rlousnoss, a clever little sketch to
The committee in charge of tin: contemplato being among those prosbe presented by two dramatists. TilFriendship Drive has decided to aoent at the William Penn the evonlng lie Capas and Walt Rodgers. Warren
licit money through the
The Department of Secretarial ! These tags will be placed on sale in 
Studies at Carnegie has expanded and each school, immediately after the 
improved during his regime, not only I General Assembly of the 13th. 
through his personal efforts, but also j The committee for the Student 
because of the loyal support accorded ! Friendship Drive is composed of momhim by his assistants, each of whom | bers of Technon Club, and is as fob 
admired and respected Professor j lows: General Chairman, Johnny
(Continued on Page Three.) iContinued on Page Two.
Bulletin Board Regulations
Being Violated Frequently
For two years there have been regulations regarding the 
placarding oC the campus with notices. Lately these regulations 
have-been violated by several local organizations, and the campus 
has been .strewn with signs concerning social events. Below are 
the rules, and the Student Council should be consulted before 
extra publicity be put into effect:
1. No n<0tice shall, be placed on the bull tin boards except 
by the, man in charge of the boards. He will call at the office of 
the Dean of Men .daily at 12:30 for material left there for posting. 
An exception of this rule is made when a notice concerns the 
students of one college only. These need not be delivered to the 
])eanJs Office, but can be posted'on the one board concerned 
by the organization interested.
2. No notice shall be larger than 12x16 inches.
3. Permission must be, secured from the Dean of Men for 
posters larger than 12x16 inches, or for any posting on the cam
pus other than on the regular boards.
4. No notice, in any event, shall be tacked 011 trees, or tele
phone poles.,
5. T11 order to help make the boards presentable, notices 
should be printed, whenever possible, or well-lettered and should 
be correct as to English.
sale of tags. I oC January 30, 1925, should no longer 
postpone the purchase of them. The 
price is one and 0110 half dollars.
Today the sale of the secondary 
tickets, at two dollars and 0110 half,- 
is to ho started, which makes with 
the preliminary tickets a total of four 
dollars paid. The Juniors also have 
the choice of buying at this time tlio 
total subscription pasteboard, which 
comes at nine dollars, thus obviating 
trouble for both thomselvos and the 
commlttoes in charge in tho future,
It Is necessary to ho mentlonod, In 
ordor that there will not be any mis
understandings concerning the event1, 
that all throe year mon on tho campus 
are invited to attend tho Junior Prom, 
regardless of what class they may be 
enrolled In at the timo, or their prej vious condition of servitude." Thus 
(Continued on Page Two.
Kimball, of Campus Week l'amo, and 
Ittil.h Ashton will thou favor OC with 
an oriental dauco which should prove 
most exonerating and perhaps oven 
Instructive to those who onjoy (.rip
ping "011 tho light fantastic. This 
number promises to rival tho YODDUYC 
(Continued 011 Page Two
the acciiHtomed number of fraternity 
mon signify tholr Intontlon of go In." 
by paying the required tax.
A tax, by tho way, was gone willy 
a nominal sum measured In loose 
change. Although tin' word tax in 
recent yours assumes the propor 
tlons of a. acmi annual fraternity 
bill, the committee under Mowran 
will endeavor to disclose an assess
ment around par.
Tho fair, of courye, will he formal.
(Continued on Pago Three)
Cross Country Squads Also to 
be Guests at Luncheon 
at Wm. Penn Hotnl
STEFFAN TO BE
MAIN SPEAKER
Tickets Two Dollars Each; 
Will be on Sale Until 
Thursday
THISTLE CAMPAIGN 
ENDS TOMORROW
Last Chance to Buy Year 
Book; Editorial Work is 
Progressing Rapidly
' The curtain rings down on the final 
j Thistle sales campaign of the year 
i tomorrow evening. After that time, 
 j absolutely no orders will be taken by 
the circulation staff, Thistles will be 
I at a premium, and the only possibility 
! of obtaining a year book will be to 
| buy at speculators prices. A buck in 
time often saves nine.
 j There will be salesmen at all im! portant entrances on the campus, at 
| the beanery, and at Carnegie Inn. 
j Everyone will have ample opportu! nity to buy. The usal part payment 
/ a  1 rTT7ii-r-N* I plan .will he followed, whereby This-Entrance Witn Aid of Well Directed Fire Hose tlcs mny lie WIii'cIkih<!'1 a nayment___________________________ | of two dollars and fifty cents now, and
Plebes Successfully Hold Banquet At East
Liberty Hotel; Discourage Sophs Attempting
Despite the lack of surreptitious 
glances and public whispered con-, 
ferences which usually accompany 1 
surprise events, the class of 2S very i 
clearly proved last Tuesday evening, j 
January sixth, that they had "somej 
thing up their sleeve, collectively j 
speaking, by staging their first anj 
nual banquet at the Rittenhouse 1 
Hotei, on North Highland avenue, in j 
East Liberty. It was the most sue-1 
cessful freshman banquet in the hisj 
tory of the school, the plebes having j 
not only all their class officers pres-1 
ent but the three sophomore presij 
dents as well. These honored sophoj 
more guests had prominent places j 
at the speakers table, high chairs and I 
bibs being supplied for, them.
It was a queer conincidence that! 
the Very evening in which the soph 
officers were to appear before the. 
Student Council, to answer charges j
of the Sophomore secret banquet, 1 
they were being the guests of the! 
plebes at their secret banquet. Two j 
of the three soph presidents were; 
spirited away from the campus in: 
broad daylight. Wally Lynch was cap-' 
tured across the street from' Skiibo. | 
Sid Forbes walked very kindly to the j 
cab' awaiting for him at Forbes and | 
Morewood, and Leonard Flowers ac
commodatingly took a street car to! 
East Liberty and alighted just a blockj 
away from the scene of the banquet. J 
where he was greeted by the plebe 1 
strong-arm committee who followed! 
in a cab. All w'ere escorted to the 1 
hotel with attractive niqkel bracelets, j 
Gosh, what a surprise, they all agreed I 
for they had planned on leaving school i 
Wednesday, fearing the banquet to be ; 
Friday. But the1 plebes didnt want j 
them to miss any of their classes! 
unavoidably, so they arranged the af-1 
fair before any of them were quite *
over thinking of their holiday vaca
tion with their sweet women.
The food was dee-licious. Excel
lent entertainment was provided by 
Miss Marjorie Nelson, a celebrated 
blues artist with a pleading and 
attractive voice. Ollie Riehl, the KDKA star, accompanied. Little bronze 
watch charms with a green  '28  on 
them were given as favors.
Professor II. Iv. Klrk-Patrlck act
ed at Toastmaster for the occasion. 
Ills talk was quite interesting as well 
as entertaining.
Herb Evans .president of the Arts 
School freshmen, congratulated the 
plebes on the unparalleled success of 
their banquet.
When the speeches were over there 
was a wild cry of "The sophs are 
coming! One glance out the window 
verified this statement. Two score of 
the sophs were climbing the fire es(Continued on Page Two.)
two dollars when the book is issued, 
j The editorial staff reports that 
( work is progressing very. satlsfactor| ily. Many of the pages have been 
, made up. and Indications are that tills 
; years Thistle will more than fulfill 
the expectations of tho staff, tho fac(Continued on Pago Four.)
Kappa Epsilon Granted National 
Charter by Phi Kappa Fraternity
At lliu mitionul convention of Phi Kiipjui Pi'alcrnil.v hold til. 
Lambda Chapter, Madison, AViscion.sin, on December !J0 mil :I1, 
Kappa Epsilon local local fraternity was (nmled a charter to 
establish a chapter at Carnegie. The installation will probably 
take place in February.
Kappa Epsilons is the twelfth national eliaV't.eilu lie granted 
to fraternities at. Carnegie. The local organization will bccomc 
Kho chapter of Phi Kappa.
Kappa Epsilon was organized in April, 1923, and siiiee that 
time has experienced a rapid growth and development:. The 
membership at present consists id' nineteen active members and 
thirteen pledges. During its two years of existence the fra
ternity has maintained a high scholastic standing and has ener
getically supported student activities.
The membership is well distributed through the three Col
leges of Fine Arts, Engineering and Industries and is about 
evenly divided among the four classes.
Most of the alumni brothers arc expected to ret in n for the 
installation.
Charters were granted at the same lime by Phi Kappa 
to local fraternities at the University of Nebraska and of Cin
cinnati.
At one oclock this Saturday tho 
Varsity Clan will unite with tho Pitts
burgh Clan in giving a luncheon in 
honor of the 192*1 football and ci'ose 
country squads and coaches at tho 
William Penn Ballroom. .
Although It has long boeu the ciifitom of tho Varsity Clan. t.o close tho 
fall season by a delightful banquet* . 
Saturday will only mark tho socoufl 
hold under tho joint auspices of tho 
former in collaboration with tho Pitts
burgh Clan, it being doomed advan
tageous to continue last years pro
gram which provod so successful, j
Special Entertainment Promised. 1
Tho committee in charge has de
voted special attention to tho secur
ing of suitable ontortainmoni 
pluntdng of suitable ontertatnmcritt 
and plans diversion of a rather elabo
rate nature. Music by an eight, pioc-ji 
orchestra will sooth those who strimglo with refractory steaks as the tu
rnons syncopators trill forth swoeV 
and entrancing tunes which woulA 
melt tho very Ice cream woro it no.t 
for tho gelatine content. Songs ttut'l 
specialty stunts by those ontonaluors we wanted for tho Soph ban quo) 
hut couldn't afford will put tho dI nova 
In a roceptlvo mood for the upoecho 
to follow. i
Those will bo short, Illuminating atf 
to tho many stories tho speaker had 
hoard on various occasions, and may 
resolve Into something of a competi
tive nature. Wally Steffen Is definite
ly scheduled together with the ,no\Y 
and retiring' captains, A number oi* 
other, Carnegie men will bo ctilfe.i|i 
on and these have never failed upon 
past occasion to give highly umun': 
Ing talks. \
One Innovation of this years nioojt 
Is l,lnit tho affair will no longer bijj 
a stag party. Several of tho men ex
pressed tho desire to bring lijd.f 
friends and so If was decided to ln|- 
vile all the girls. Tho luncheon hi v 
open to all studentsEdii and Ccy 
era alumni ditto, and faculty mdm 
bers. Arrangements are being mudo  
to accommodate about a. thousand/ 
plates which are expected to Include  
about live hundred studontiv..
Many Guooto Invited.
A veritable host of guests has boon'1 
invited to attend tho luncheon In 
addition to tho teams and couclib 
mentioned before. The trustees of 
tho Carnegie Corporation and Insti
tute, city, county and federal official,- 
captains of VV. P. I. A. L. football 
teams, presidents of tho Ivlwanls, Ro
tary, Lions, Co-oporatlve, and Opti
mist Clubs have boon invltod In ad
dition to numerous others not yet 
classified.
The date has been sot somewhat 
late tlill season duo to varfHus Inter
ruptions in December. In the past it 
had been the custom to announce tho 
football captain for tho coming season 
at the banquet but' owing to tho latoness of this year's gathering it was 
impossible to continue this custom. 
Two years age the banquet was belt 
on the night of. the Notre Dame game 
and the visiting team was among tho 
guests. Even the renowad Knuto 
Rockne was numbered among the 
speakers and the Varsity Clanners 
still believe that it was tills banquet 
more than anything else that secured 
a place for us on Notre Dame sched
ule for the succeeding three years.
The tickets are on sale at two dol
lars apiece, and may be obtained from 
(Continued on Page Pour L.
Prof. W. R. Work, Head of Electrical Engineering 
Department, Conducts Valuable Research On
Steel Cored Cable For Alternating Current
Paul Skolnock, for many 
years the gardener nt Carnegie 
Tech, was killed Saturday aft
ernoon v/hen his motorcyclo 
was struck by an automobile. 
Paul was killed, but hla wife, 
Helen, who was with him, es
caped without serious injury, 
Paul, v/ho was forty-eight years 
old, lived at 5102 Fifth avenue. 
He v/as well known to every 
student on thi camnun. nnd hia 
death is deeply regretted.
Prof. W. R. Work, head of the elec
trical engineering department ban! 
been pursuing some investigations in 
regard to conductors for the transI mission of electrical power. The work 
j was undertaken In conjunction with | 
H, C. Dennison at the instigation of} 
a local industrial concern, and some 
very Important results wore obtained, j 
The title of the paper describing the j 
work Is "Investigation of effective re
sistance and reactance of copper and 
I aluminum cables with stool cores for 
 use with alternating current trails! mission lines.
j The problem of choosing a conducj tor suitable for transmission of A. C.
J power has always presented rather 
serious difficulties to the electrical 
engineer. It is not such a disturbing 
j question when the power 1 to be 
I transmitted within a limited radius, 
i but v/hen the supply Is located at a 
 great distance from where it is to
be used, the line losses, under the 
best of conditions, are rather formid
able. From this fact arises the neces
sity for tho careful design of the 
transmission cables. Copper and alu
minum, although possessing low re
sistance, have such small tensile 
strength that a long span necessitalo 
the use of a prohibitive amount of 
material in order to obtain Ilio requis
ite mechanical strength. Expense Is 
always an Important factor in elec
trical iriMfallatlons.
Recent practice In transmission .line 
conductors favors tho uso of a steel j 
reinforced conductor to obtain high 
tensllo strength. The steol is used 
as the core for a conductor which 
has aluminum or copper for the outer 
portion. The resulting cable incor
porates both tho low resistance of 
the copper or aluminum and tho high 
mechanical strength of tho steel with
out making the cost excessive. Incidontally, tho bimetallic conductor 
has a larger radius than a homogonoous one of the same conductivity, 
and is thereforo better from thestandpoint of corona.
Tlioro Is tho possibility that such ; 
combination, since It is used with A. 
C,, may Introduce appreciable lossey; 
due to the Inductance. The present 
work was undertaken to discover 
how much a stool coro Incroasos /.ho 
power loss duo to resistance and tho 
voltage drop duo to reactance. Tho 
test data was obtained by an original 
method especially devised for this 
purpose. The conductors tested had 
diameters ranging from one-eighth to 
one and one-eight, inches. , >;
It was found that the actual in
crease In both resistance and react
ance was very small at all reasonable 
current densities, and can safely be 
ignored in conductor design.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 13. 1925
 Carrie jbt an
Published every week by undergraduates of tho Carnegie inatitute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered In the PoHtoilice of Pittsburgh a second-claas matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEFmitin C. SMITH.....................................................................................Sch.cnley 0122
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
F. 1J. ROSSINI A. E. KROCJII E. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF
fj. If. Harri A. F. Carson R. R. SlUler IX A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR
KR1CD T. PH13LPS.................................................................................Schcnloy 9102
\ NEWS EDITORS
'W. WINNING .........................................................................................Schcnloy 9070
V. B. SMITH.........................................................................................Franklin 5547-J
{ ALUMNI EDITOR,r. M. OOSS................................................................................................Schenley 9180
 REPORTERS
It. I.. Lopper, M. Hollimdicad, M. Jjutt, E. Tallmadge, M. Tucker, R. Hand, 
C. .1. Byhio, S. P. William, N. Borzollu, M, Cohen, S. Well, !. L, Grunt, E. 
ltofifj, H. L. Myora, L, V. Twohlg, F. Finn, Win gold Kelly, F. A, Kold.
r( ATHLETIC EDITOR
,W J17G9:300 WWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWWBW9chenley 9285
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
iMargaret McFall, J. F. Harri, J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, 
 William Bernard I, B. Krlstof.
*" 6USINE8S MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON........................................................................................Schcnloy 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER ........................................................................................Schenley 9122
~~ CIRCULATION MANAGER
.P. MOSKOVIT/, ........................................................................................Hazel 2878-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J. W. Metro, A. Grodner, L, Burbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Buerle, J. P. 
Rtrimlr, Lohi Snyder, A. Perroton, G. II. Carl. B. Supowltz, L. Sachs, II. 
'Kandcll, A. C. Hough, F. W. Moore, R. L. Grlbble.
The EdltOr-ln-Chlof In reaponsible for the policy of thin paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
The Tartan welcome all communication of tudont interest, it' signed. 
Signature will bo withhold if desired. All news Item must bo in the s-.ident 
post oiTlco before 4:80 Thuraday.__________________________________________________
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Ofllce hoursDaily 12-30- 
1:20.
PAUL
The passing oi! PauJ, the gardener, came to us as 
lightening from a clear sky. Even now we can hardly 
b.elieve, it true, although liis body is already interred. 
The manner oi! Paul's passing is common knowledge; it 
was swiJ't and unpleasant to think of. Yet it was the sort 
of death that best fits 'Pauls life. His restless energy and 
just pride in his accomplishments would have made a 
sick, bed unbearable to him. As it was, he never know 
just what happened.
Paul's death leaves a gap in our community that we 
cannot fill. The genial smile and eager walk ol; Paul, 
just Paul, was l'umiliur to nil, even the newcomers on the 
eiimpus. lie was a fellow worker to nil of us and stood 
behind no man in love for our Institute. The motto ol: 
our school was also Pauls: My heart is in the work. 
His untiring efforts for the improvement of the campus 
are bearing fruit. Another year and complete success 
would have crowned liis efforts, but, like Moses ol! old, 
be was not permitted to complete the task himself.
It is very hard for us, in the flower of our youth, to 
realize the meaning of death, it seems so unreal and far
away. We cannot comprehend it as the end of all things. 
Our reason cries against it. This cannot bo .tho end. 
Death unreal. Those who look upon it as the only 
thing real are in error!
There is no death.
Tlio spirit of Paul is not dead ; his influonco upon our 
college will never be erased, In history Paul will go down 
as Ihe gardener, in our hearts Paul will forever stand 
as "the friend,
We believo the student body would like to honor Paul 
nt a memorial service in tho I tile Theater at the usual 
chapel hour. Lot us gel, together and revere the memory 
of the man, whom we feel honored lo call our friend, for
........I he ranks but the guinea's stamp,
The mans the gold for all that.
MINDIN MY BUSINESS
Jt is an infallible indication' of a. second rate mentality when a man begins to take more interest in other peoples business than lie .loos in his own. Yet it is not a native trait, it is noquiiiM. A man begins to do big things when ho begins to look nl'ler his own work, find ceases when lie begins to watch over liis friend.
Curiosity is natural, were all curious. That; is no misfortune. 
It is when our curiosity is so great that we begin to be curious about 
things which are distinctly personal to someone else that it becomes 
offensive. A. truly great man is one who has no interest outside his 
.own work.
Can one imagine Abraham Lincoln telling his vice president how 
flic ought; to conduct his household? Can anyone think ol; Edison tell
ing Westingll ouse how the electrical business should be conducted? 
Foolish questions! And yet we have tilings as bad taking .place 
 among mirsclvcs.
Unpleasant as the term meddler may be, there is one good 
'thing about, it. When people begin to call you that, it is time to take 
imventory. If you find that it is true that; you are paying too much 
attention to other peoples business, it means that there is something 
wrong with you. You are losing ground somewhere. Take enough 
interest in your own affairs, and you wont have time for other 
,peo,ples.
Telling another fellow just whats the matter with him, or spend
ing your time trying to find whom your girl was with last night, 
wont help you in these final exams.
Now is the time to M IND YOUR BUSINESS.
The Week 
in the 
Worlds News
By LESLIE P. BEEBE 
---------------------------------------------------
Great Britain and U. S. Rcach Agree
ment.
Defeat of Poatal Bill.
Appointment of Juotlcc Stone.
Speed In the 8enate.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, JANUARY 13
General Assombly............................................11:30 A. M., Music Iiall
A Pair of Spectacles.................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
Basket BallGeneva.......................................................At Beaver Falls
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 14
A Pair of Speetaclos ............................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, JANUARY 16
Basket; Ball..-W. & J.......................................................At "Washington..
SATURDAY, JANUARY 17
Saturday Night Dance.................................................8:30 P, M., Union
Varsity Gian Luncheon........................1:00 P. M., William Penn Motel
MONDAY, JANUARY I!)
 ,1'phigonia ...................................................8:30 P. M., Little Theater
TUESDlAY. JANUARY 20
Basket Ball -Pitt................................................................. At Pitt
Jphigenia...................................................8:30 P. M., Little 'Theater
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 21 
Tphigenia ....................................................8 :30 P. M.. I attic Theater
PLEBES SUCCESSFULLY
PULL BANQUET
(Continued From Paga One.)
capos and crawling along narrow ledg
es in an endeavor to liberate their 
captured officers. They were wel
comed by a cooling stream of water 
from the fire hose, drenching them 
thoroughly. A little later, about ten 
of the ambitious sophs were admit
ted through one of the French win
dows, only to be gently disrobed and 
given another bath and trouncing.
This gentle fun gave the banquet just 
the needed flavor to the already sue 
cessful party.
The plebes are glvon due credit 
even from tho faculty for staging a 
secret banquet so successfully with
out the usual breaking-up of class
rooms or "detainment of any of the 
other class officers from their classes. 
The work was parried on so smooth
ly and quietly that even yet there are 
some Sophs around the campus who 
dont know the plebes banquet is his
tory.
After an exchange of many notes 
and communications, the British and 
'American government have finally 
reached an agreement as to the lat
ter claim under tho Versailles Trea
ty, now being paid by the Dawes 
Agreement. The Allies signed with 
Germany, the Versailles Treaty 
which gave them priority on any 
amount paid over for reparations, the 
amount to be decided at a later con
ference. The United State, not being 
a signatory of the Versailles com
pact, signed a separate agreement 
with Germany In which the States 
were to share with the Allio in war 
damages and cot of the Army of 
Occupation. Nothing was said at that 
time by the Allies as to their stand.
Now that reparation are to he 
paid America is claiming her legal 
right to these war claims. The Allies 
position lias been that, since we didnt 
sign the Treaty of Versailles, and did 
not assume the responsibilities then, 
we have no right to claim damages 
now. The Allies, under the Treaty, 
have a first mortgage and we, with 
our separate treaty, a second mort
gage. Nevertheless, we claim, along 
with the Allies, priority treatment.
The other nations, France, Italy. 
Belgium, and Japan had agreed to 
America's equity, in part because they 
needed our financial aid. But Great 
Britain held that we had no legal 
rights. Great Britain through her 
representative, Austin Chaniiberlain, 
and our, James Logan, at The Allied 
Financial Conference, got together 
the first day and, both feeling that 
the two countries should have no dif
ferences of opinion, compromised. 
England accepted our claims and we, 
in turn, changed the payment of the 
costs of the Army of Occupation from 
a twelve year period to a twenty-four 
the rest of the costs coming later. 
It is thought that Belgium will object 
to this arrangement, because it re
duces her prioriy from 8 per cent as 
under the Spa agreement to 5 per 
cent and because it is known that 
M. Theunis came with definite in
structions not to relinquish any pri
ority. * * +
What is said to be the first' test 
of President Coolidge's strength came 
tills wook when the attempt to over
ride his veto of The Postal Pay In
crease Bill met with a defeat of one 
vote in the Senate, 55 to 29, the count 
being in doubt up to the very end. 
'rills will kill, probably, any attempt 
to introduce a new bill unless it be 
one which is approved by the admin
istration, and which will provide for 
Increased rates to make up tho added 
expense along with the increased pay.* ! .+;
Only twenty-four hours alter Asso
ciate Justice .Joseph McKenna had 
tendered his resignation Presdont Coolidge appointed Ills 
fmceoBHor, Harlan Flake Stone, 
one time Dean of Columbia 
Law School and since last spring At
torney General of tho United States. 
The nows of the McKenna resignation 
came as no surprise, for since his 
wifes death last year, it has been 
known that ho desired to lay down 
Judicial duties and retire.
A number of names have been sag 
gested an tho possible 'candidate Cor 
the new Attorney Geiloral, but two 
seom tho most in the foregroundthe present Solicitor General, Jamoii 
M, Beck of New York, and Charles B. 
Warren, of Michigan, former Ambas
sador to Mexico and much in favor 
with the administration, it in claim 
ed by some that he is connected with 
I-Iavomeyer Sugar interests and owns 
05,000 shares of stock in the Michi
gan Sugar Corporation, which would 
legislate against him.*. *
S'peed in the Senate does become I 
a reality when we appreciate that, on 
January seventh that body took forj 
consideration and approved within | 
00 minutes the Agricultural Department Bill and the Joint Treasury and j 
Post Office  Departments Appropria
tion Bill of ?SSS.309,01-1. making a 
rate of $S,S83,090 a minute.
Excerpts of Lectures Given By Dr. Paul R. Heyl
Of the U. S. Bureau of Standards On Jan. 6, 7, 8
The principal accomplish-J 
ment of the nineteenth century i 
may be said to have been thej 
correlation of the inheritance j 
received from the eighteenth 
century.
This consisted of a number 
of isolated and distinct con
ceptsmatter, heat, light, elec
tricity, magnetism and force of 
various kindsall such forces 
except the so-called vital force 
being.regarded as properties of 
matter of some kind, pondcrable or imponderable. Th nine
teenth century reduced these 
concepts to two, matter, and a 
new concept, energy.
The nineteenth century may 
bo said to have closed, scien
tifically speaking, with the year 
1895, in which Roentgen dis
covered what he called a new 
kind of lightl With this dis
covery, followed quickly by 
that of radioactive bodies, the 
crest of the oncoming wave 
broke upon us. In the ensuing
turmoil we are still struggling 
for a foothold.
The general progress of the 
science of physics in the nine
teenth century may be said to 
have been steadily way from 
the materialism of the eigh
teenth century. At the end, we 
find the two main concepts of 
physics, matter and energy, 
dividing the ground between 
materialism and its opposite.
PLEBE DRAMAS WILL 
PRESENT IPHIGENIA
PROM NUMBER OF PUPPET':  f t *+ THETA TAU TO CALL MEN
FG.. Xo 35: ,2'527K -4 u nOtCSACP4IniYsIDS:VY7GePd ac'oh: 9JGo'Jo 299olX.K
On the twentieth of January the 
Prom issue of Puppet will make its 
appearance on the campus. Always 
heralded as the most truly collegiate 
in its mirth provoking quibble and 
banter, this years Prom issue will 
eclipse all precedent in dispensing 
condensed glee.
Larry Stults, one of the snappiest 
cartoonists who ever attended Car
negie Tech, and who is now en
gaged in commercial art work in 
Chicago, has worked Up a rollicking 
design. This is good enough to be 
framed.
Barney Goldstein and Dick Beatty, 
two other famous artists who once 
attended Carnegie, have turned in 
some clever material for this issue 
that will make any funeral directar 
giggle. In addition, the best of our 
colorful local talent have submitted 
some o their latest work.
Tho whole Prom issue of Puppet 
is replete with laughs, and is larger 
than usual to boot. It would be a 
good idea for all the students to buy 
several copies and send them to 
their distant friends. For dispelling 
gloom the Prom number cannot be 
beaten.
FRIENDSHIP DRIVE
WILL BEGIN TODAY
* Friday night the Lutheran v 
v Student Club will hold its sec!
ond annual dance in' the Carnev gie Union. The dance will bev gin at th usual hour and the ? 
*! usual price will be charged. -I* 
I* The Techson Orchestra will v 
I* perform and make the night air * 
romantic or hideous, according *
* to the point of view, and all *
* will he merry.
v A large number of invitations 
v have been sent out to students 
whose addresses were in the v 
!* possession of the committee, inv 
*1* eluding representatives from.-* 
the little school on the hill, as v 
I* well as from P. C. W. *
v The Lutheran Student Club is * 
v intercollegiate and therefore * 
v the dance will be likewise. This * 
<- has been kept in mind by the v 
v committee and arrangements * 
I* are being made to have the dec* orations in keeping with the v
* spirit of the occasion. *
(Continued From Page One.) 
Carr; Secretary - Treasurer, M a r y 
Stuempfie; Chairman of Sales in Arts, 
Peg Taylor; Chairman of Sales in M. 
M Barbara White; Chairman of 
Sales in Science, Eddie Wright: 
Chairman of Sales in Industries, Bill 
Gooby.
Had the Wrong Ellen.
It was out in the country, where 
about ten farmers are on one party 
telephone line. By means of varied 
rings one can telephone to any one of 
the others without calling central. 
One day I called up my friend. Ellen, 
and usUed her to go to the dance with 
me. Imagine our mutual surprise, 
when, on arriving at her home, she 
had not heard of the dance. In my 
haste when filling I had' confused the 
rings and had been talking to another 
Ellen on the *;nn<> UKv^-mao.
Whos Who in Arts
ARTS SENATE
PresidentO. B. Newman, 210 McGill I-Iall.....................
Vico PresidentMargaret Taylor, 5152 Forbes Street...
SecretaryM. Goodwin, -1822 Forbes Street.....................
TreasurerJ. A. Ropp, '1929 Forbes Street.........................
RepresentativesDorothy Schmalhorst, 5052 Forbes St.
W. Koppes, 4902 Forbes Street.......
Betty Matter, 21S S. Neville Street.
Kline Fulner, 1902 Forbes Street........
W. A. Loekard, 4915 Forbes Street.......
A. Perroton, 4915 Forbes Street..........
Mildred Hess, 5141 Woodlawn Avenue. 
A. Sebastian, 4222 Baum Boulevard...
.Schenley 906S 
. Schenlev 9063; 
.Schenley 919G 
.Schenley 9122 
.Schenley 9063 
.Schenley 9231 
. Schenley 1S60 
.Schenley 9231 
.Schenley 9211 
.Schenley 9211 
.Schenley 9144 
.Schenley 9196
SENIOR CLASS
PresidentT-T. Sload, 254 Bollolield Avenue..........................Schenley 9102
Vice President Dorothy Diamond, lit Itoss Avenue.. .Franklin 1469-11
SecretaryMargaret Taylor, 5152 Forbes Street...............Schenley 9063
Treasurer -John Carr, -1725 Wallingford Avenue...............Schenley 9177
JUNIOR CLASS
President AT. Goodwin, 4822 Baum Boulevard...................Sclienlev 9196
Vico President.--Mildred Semons, 6908 McPherson Blvd..Hiland 7163-R 
Secretary It. Kennedy, ,7938 Susquehanna Street.. ... .Franklin 2263-.I 
TreasurerDorothy Purnell, 5052 Forbes Street...............Schenley 9063
SOPHOMORE CLASS
President W. Lynch, 5017 Forbes Streik.................
Vice presidentGrac Glonnon, 4916 Forbes Street.
Socrotary Dorothy Boyle, 4916 Forbes Street........
Treasurer(!. Mclvenney, 1019'^ Hnllom Street...
.. .Schenley 9143 
.. .Schenley 9340 
.. . Schenley 9079
.Schenley 5519-J
FRESHMAN CLASS
President-TJ. Evans, 733 Broughton Avenue........
Vice PresidentF. Wilmuth, 1023 Mellon Street.
SecretaryChristine Cocliron. 402 Chester Avenue................Cedar 4320
TreasurerT. Moore, 1313 Welch Hall...............................Schenley 9340
The engineering honorary society, 
Tlieta Tau, will make its fall selec
tion of the most representative men 
taking a course leading to a degree 
at the engineer assembly two weeks 
from today.
Theta Tau is a national engineer
ing fraternitw and is represented in 
all of the large tecHnical colleges of 
this country. The organization at 
Carnegie is called the Nu chapter 
I and is one of the most active hon-. 
orary societies on the campus. They 
meet every three weeks in the Bu
reau of Mines auditorium where they 
! are given very interesting and edu
cational addresses by prominent 
speakers. Theta Tau calls men to 
their illustrious circle semi-annually, 
the fall selection being restricted to 
men of the two upper classes.
The man who is called to Theta 
Tau is not chosen  only for his 
scholastic attainments, for his. ath
letic ability, his non-athletic activ
ities, but for the moulding of these 
three coupled with his personality, 
which will be indicative of his fu
ture development.
The ambitious engineer hitches 
his .wagon to a star, so to speak, 
and strives for a higher develop
ment in engineering fields, both for 
himself and his associates, with the 
hope and feverant anticipation that 
some day ho will be chosen to the 
circle of Theta Tau.
First Unitarian Church
Ellsworth and Morewood Aves. 
L. Walter Mason, D.D., Minister 
Sunday School, 9:45 A. M. 
Preaching Service, 11:00 A. M. 
Young Peoples Meeting, 6:30
P. M.
I
Special Invitation to Students. {
On Monday evening, January 19, the 
first glimpse of the new talent of the 
Drama Department will be gained, 
when the plebe students appear in 
Iphegenia of Fanris of Euripides, 
which opens for a weeks run in the 
Little Theater. This event has been 
eagerly looked forward to by many, 
and is one of the outstanding social 
events of the year. The play is the 
most ambitious one ever attempted 
by any freshman class, extraordinary 
and varied talent being essential to 
execute it properly; but judging from 
the rehearsals, much is expected of 
the newcomers.
The play was written by Euripedes, 
a Greek, in whose time art and re
ligion were very much one. This fact 
is much in evidence throughout the 
masterpiece. The plot carries great 
interest, and abounds in almost heartgripping situations.
The poetry of the ancient Greeks is 
the greatest the world has ever 
known.
As always, the Freshmen have 
worked earnestly to erect a careful 
setting. A new set of Greek rostrums 
have been designed by Miss Doris 
Meyers, aided by the Freshman girls. 
The production is ably directed by 
Chester A. Wallace, assisted by Har
riet Walker. The characters:
Iphigenia .........................Esther MeQuire, Lucille Welch, Aileen Sauld
Orestes........................................Max
Scholes, Robert Pike, Ramon Sanich
Pylades ....................................... Jack
Durbin Horner, Charles Webster
Tlioss, king of Tousis...................
..............Gerrit Kesber, Don McClure
A Herdsman........................................
................Walter Rogers, Mr. Woods '
A Messenger...................Don Wilson,
Herman Greenberg, Jack Sallust 
Chorus of Captive Greek Women... 
Betty McFadden, Katherine Mans
field, Irene Ivosenski, Ruth Aston, 
Martha Reeves, Margaret Werts
Their Leader ..........'............................
Josephine Copan, Virginia Peterson
The Goddess, Pollas.Athena..............
...................................... Helene Her
man, Leah Rothman, Esther Leisch 
Music arranged and executed by 
Miss Leah Rothman and Mr. Dan 
Cra,ne, both of whom have unlimited 
ability in this field.
The production is under the technic
al management of Robert Gunder.
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avenue 
Sunday, 11 A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednesday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Grace Reformed Church
Dithridge and Bayard Streets 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Pastor.
Bible Class ............................9:45
Sermons for Students at 11 A. M. 
League of Youth at 6:30 P. M.
IPJURGH_PLAY HOUSES*
ROY H. LEGATE WILL
ADDRESS GENERAL ASSEMBLY'
(Continued From Page One.) 
of the "Tango, which made such a 
hit at last years Campus Week vau
deville show.
A few red hot numbers from a pop
ular campus orchestra will conclude 
the program. Obie Newman has plan
ned all the programs for this years 
assemblies. Their purpose is to pro
mote better school spirit, and to en
tertain the student body. However, 
should you have any suggestions 
which you think might better suit the 
tastes of the student bod^', send them 
to Ohio. He is always very glad to 
recoivo any suggestions of this nature 
for ho will be better able to plan his 
programs to suit everyone. At; the 
boat, Ohio has an arduous task when 
he at tempts to please some threo thou
sand students, but so far the assem
bly programs have been very well 
planned and executed. 'Phe one for 
this week should prove unusually at
tractive. and everyone is urged to tissist in honoring our football heroes.
PRELIM TICKETS FOR
PROM ON SALE
(Continued From Pace One.) 
any man who has attended any col
lege or university, even if as a sopho
more, is eligible for participation in 
this noted social occasion, and it is 
hoped and asked that all will pur
chase the "prelim" and help the com
mittee, which will probably publish 
a more comprehensive report in the 
TARTAN next issue.
ALVIN
Chariots Review will be the big
gest. thing in town this' week. This
is not the regular type of review
with which we are familiar, but it is
something new and delightfully differ
ent. The main features are the two 
little English girls, Beatrice Lillie and 
Jessie Matthews. Chariot developed 
this type of show ten years ago, and 
the S'elwyns begged him to bring it 
to America. He consented a year ago, 
and here is the show. Some of the 
features of the show are "March With 
Me sung by Miss Lillie, and Paris
ian Pierrot and "Limehouse Blues 
by Miss Matthews. There are twenty 
four members in the show and there 
are gorgeous lighting effects.
scenes. Hack Haley and Helyn Eby ! 
Rock 'in Chic .Risibilities -will drive j 
away the blues. -. Charles O. Ditmer 
conies to sing for-the first time here. | 
He will sing English and American 
Baritone ballads. Cory and Cotes will 
dance lo fill the bill.
PITT
DAVIS
Sophie Tucker heads tho bill at 
the Davis this week, and that would 
be enough to fill the house, Ma
dame Tucker, which she now calls 
herself, comes with Tod Shapiro and 
Jack Carroll, in addition to tho young 
violin virtuosa Milton Spiro.
Con Colloano is a wire walker from 
Sunny Spain, lie is handsome, and 
quite a performer. It is said that he 
is tho only living man or woman who 
can turn a backward somersault on a 
wire. Quite Spanish!
Douglass" Leavitt' and Ruth Mary 
Lockwood will offer a little skit, call
ed "Ourselves which is full of non
sense and melody. They will be aided 
by Charles Bates. Mr. Leavitt is the 
Ed Wynn type and Miss Lockwood is 
pretty. Nuf ced.
I-locky and Green present Nola St. 
Claire in The Road to Starland and 
a company including William Goodall. 
A. Bosclietti, Armans Patzer, and the 
Wheeler Sisters. It is a fantasy in 
music and is full of laughs in six
Thurston comes again to Pittsburgh 
This is his nineteenth visit and with 
each trip he fools more people. It 
is not necessary to say much about 
this magician, for he is known by 
young and old, and liked by all. Many 
people have said that they know all 
about his magic, and all that but there 
has never been a layman who has dis
covered any of his tricks who could 
explain them correctly. This is what 
keeps the audience in suspence. The 
fact that he carried a large corps of 
assistants and a few carloads of ac
cessories is enough to show the mag
nitude of the performance.
MJl
CLOTHES FOR THE COLLEGE MAN
Next Showing at 
WILLtAM PENN HOTEL 
January 14th and 15th
nat LUXENBERG sbros.
S41 BROADWAY, NEW YORK
T?

GRAND
The Tornado" with Ruth Clifford, 
Richard Tucker, Snitz Edwards, Dick 
Southerland, Jackie Morgan and oth
ers of note, will be the big attraction 
at tlie Grand this week. The feature 
! is supplemented by special music ar; ranged for the production by Paul 
I Zimm and his Chicago Orchestra. This 
orchestra is one of the best known 
1 entertainers of the middle west and
chapIlpK
THEATER
CONTINUOUS 2 TO 11 P. M.
ALL
SEATS
25c
Direction Enterprises Theaters Co., HARRY DAVIS, General Manager
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND 
WEDNESDAY
11
Irene Rich in 
THIS WOMAN
have appeared in Keith Vaudeville as 
headliners for many weeks. Twelve 
men form the ensemble and each one 
is a soloist.
Those of us who saw the Storm 
will find the Tornado a lot more ex
citing, for it is a larger disturbance, 
and a greater production. A new Mer
maid Comedy Motor Mad and the 
regular news features will fill the bill.
Screen version of Howard Rockneys best seller. Cast includes 
Louise Favenda, Richard Cortez 
and Creighton Hale.
Sportlight FilmNews Reel  
Aesops Fable.
THURSDAY, FRIDAY AND 
SATURDAY
TWO SHALL BE
BORN
With JANE NOVAK and 
KENNETH HAKLAN
By Marie Conway Oelmer. A 
great love drama.
Felix the Cat in New Comedy 
Film. Latest News and Review.
All WeekMUSICAL ATTRACTIONAll Week 
THE EMBASSY CLUB ORCHESTRA
(From the famous and exclusive Embassy Club of Cincinnati.) 
Nine snappy syntopaters including a singing trio and clever soloist.
?

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 13. 1925THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
&tlurs u.alp.rhc&
Cross Word Puzzle No. 4On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
INTERFRAT GAMES 
BEGIN THIS EVENING
THE FOOTBALL LUNCHEON
On the front page oi' this issue of the Tartan is given thp complete details 
of the second joint Varsity Clan and Pittsburgh Clan luncheon In honor of 
j the football team. Read the article and find out just what is going to 
I happen.
The luncheon will unquestionably be a big success. It was last year, 
and there is every reason to believe that it will be even a greater affair this 
year. The 1923 team distinguished itself by winning from Pitt in football 
I for the first time in the history of Carnegie athletics. But the 1924 team 
j did even greater things. In addition to again defeating their great rival alter 
1 it was generally conceded the Tartans would have a very, very slim chance 
to win, the team waded into Notre Dante and scored more points against the 
famous Fighting Irish than any other two teams combined did the past 
season. Truly our team and coaches deserve all the honors we can heap 
upon them.
We would like to see more students at this luncheon. Last year the 
alumni turned out in forcf, but the students were not so responsive. This 
year each fraternity was given five tickets to sell among their members. 
Not one of those tickets should be unsold. The class presidents should dis
pose of twice that number. LET'S GO!
Eight Teams Will Swing Into 
Action in Charge of 
Moses and Fink
This puzzle was submitted by one of tlie students at Carnegie. Call 
around to the Tartan office and.get some designs; see if you can make up a 
better puzzle than this one.
Horizontal.
1Defect.
5A rude house.
9A settler, very prominent in Pitts
burgh.
11Assured, before a camera.
12Preposition.
14Worn both by men and women.
16Compare (Latin Abbr.).
17To annoy.
19Manufacturer of well known pat
ent medicine.
20A sharp-tongued female.
21Part of the body.
23Cycles of time (Abbr.).
24Quite a number.
251Former Russian ruler.
27Rescue.
28Halt.
29Geometrical solid.
30Compassion.
32Slave. fj
34Undersized.
35Dude.
37Impediment.
39Participial ending.
40Sound indicating pain.
42What a lady says when a man 
asks her age.
43Mark sometimes placed on papers 
which are very poor.
44Hiked.
46Greek letter.
47Essential constituent of a steer.
48At a distance.
50To persecute; a canine.
51To use the olfactory organ.
Vertical.
1Instrument used in threshing in 
the early days.
2Pronoun.
3Labor saving device in math 
(Abbr.).
4Member of the frog family.
5Found in a magnet or in an apple.
6Ignoramus.
7Exist.
SNobby (slang).
10City where prominent brand of 
collars are made.
11Write.
13What a horse breaks into (expres
sion).
15Small mountain lake.
16A young crutch (slang).
18A delectable occupation.
20Underground cavities.
22Trim.
24Hair on animals neclc (Plu.).
26Mans name.
27Trigonometric function (Abbr.).
30Expression used in Mali Jong.
31To appear in exaggerated form.
33Gladly.
34To arrest (slang).
35What a fraternity is improperly 
called.
36One of the first words a child 
learns to say.
38A thin porridge.
40What an alumnus is sometimes 
called.
41Recent intelligence.
44Number of players engaged in a 
game played in winter.
45Pronounced like a cuss word, but 
isnot.
47A Greek letter.
49Pronoun (nearly obselete).
FLOYD ROSE OF PITT
Floyd Rose, for years connected with athletics at Pitt, has decided to 
j devote all of his time to his numerous business interests in the city. Mr. 
I Rose was au all-around star athlete in the olden days, and for about fifteen 
years has been on the Athletic Council at Pitt. He has been a big factor in 
the success of various Panther teams, especially in football, lie helped to 
coach the football teams for many years, and has been of invaluable aid in 
building up the great Panther machines.
We at Carnegie are especially indebted to Mr. Rose for his efforts in 
helping bring about resumption of athletic relations between the two big 
institutions of the city after relatious had been severed for four years. Mr. 
Rose and Mr. Overend are the closest of friends, and it was mainly due to 
these two men, we believe, that the schools resumed triendly relations.
We hope that Pitt does not lose the services of Mr. Rose entirely, for it 
is not every day that a man of his character is to be found, a. man whose word 
is as good as his bond, and one who always has the interests of his school 
at heart.
ANSWERS TO LAST WEEK'S PUZZLE No. 3 
Horizontal.
1 Awkward Plebes, 10Eel, 11I. O. U., 12Ken, 14Erase, 17' 
19We, 20Ire, 21Vs., 22Al, 23Asset, 25Ea., 26Wise. 28-Mate, 
Dears, 32Fungi, 33Reed. 35Hits, 36La.. 38Tafia. 10On. 41- 
42Tut, 43N. A., 44Bet, 46Sense, 48Eel, 49Eve, 51One, Sensationally.
Vertical.
1Awkward Plebes. 2Ken. 3We, 4Ale, 5Dears. 6Lie, 7Eo, 
But, 9Sensationally, 13Eel. 15Rise. 16Seem, 18Eve, 23Asset, 
Tafia, 26War, 27Ire, 29Tut, 30Ens. 34Date. 35Hits. 37Ate, 
Fungi. 40One. 45Ten. 46Sea. 47Eon. 48Bel, 50Vs.. 52N. A
Ten,
31
-Et.,
53
. 8 
24 
39
| Dont Be An Antique
Some people look like an' ola relic in formal clothes that 
were tailored years ago. Let us Rent you one of our New 
Models. You'll see the difference.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:305:30
THE LITTLE IMPS u
DANCE ORCHESTRA g
Collegiate Imps Second Band JJ 
Six-piece Combination. H 
Get your dates early. 5
H. L. SPHAR, Manager 
Little Imps Schenley 9211 p
E. F. MILLER, Manager \\
Coll. Imps Hiland 9544 
UNPARALLELED
{poks IndusiveTours 
*> EUROPE
hapIlKt Kut rs.a.-: r|DRiuaRp
Large choice of 
itineraries; tours 
by leading Liners 
every few days 
during season
Rate from ^255
Fouruxeks all expense tour,visiting Paris, 
Versailles Brussels, Antwerp, London, etc.
Our Reputation is Your Guarantee!
THOS.COOK VE SON
PHILADELPHIA, 
r 130 South 15th Street r
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
HOW GREAT IS NOTRE DAME?
Since the football season came to a close followers of the sport have 
been attempting to compare the 1924 Notre Dame team with that of other 
great teams of the past. The question has been asked: Which is the great
est football machine ever assembled?
Some writers think the 1923 Yale team was the most powerful ever put 
together, because of the fact that Yale that year had two sets of backs, each 
set as great as the other, in addition to a groat line. Other writers think the 
California team of recent years was the greatest. Local football fans con
sider the great Pitt team of 1916 the greatest that ever trod -on the grid
iron. That year Pitt had such famous players as Dehart. Hastings. MeClaren, Williamson, Sutherland. Carlson, Herron, Sies, Seidel and others, 
every one a star. Undoubtedly an exceptionally powerful aggregation.
It is a difficult, we might say impossible, thing to pick out the greatest 
team that ever played. However, for a powerful, smashing attack the writer 
would pick the 1916 Pitt machine. But much as we admire that great aggre
gation, for an all-around offensive and defensive team, wo would give the 
laurels to the Fighting Irish and the Four Horsomon of 1924. In our opinion 
no team in the world could have defeated the Notre Dame team that mot 
Carnegie on November 29, 1924. The way the Irish completed forward passes 
that day was astounding, it was the greatest exhibition of the open gamo 
ever witnessed on any field. And a successful forward pnssing team, ospocially when it has such treacherous runners and line buckers us. Crowley, Mil
ler, Layden and Stuhldreher could dofeat. a slnm-bang, smashing typo of play 
any time on a fairly dry field, under normal conditions.
No wonder Nebraska was able to defeat Notre Dam! in 1922 and 1923 
in football when the former had such giants as Way no (Big) Munn, who re
cently won the worlds heavyweight wrestling championship from E. (Strang
ler) Lewis. Munn played on the lino for Nebraska those years. The now 
wrestling champion is 6 feet 6 inches tall and weighs 250 pounds. 1-Ie is 27 
years old.
Benny Kristof received a lettor recently from a firm in' Philadelphia of
fering to sell him a book on how to make love. We wonder, why that linn 
picked on Benny. No chance for a sale thoro.
Put Ryan is all set for the big initial battle tonight in the inter-fraternlty 
league, Pat claims he deserves a pension, for it is his fifth year out.
Doc Marks, .Timmy Robertson. Arnold Fink, Cy Comfort and Fred Duncun 
formed a quint which last Saturday tramped all ovor the A. T. O. aggregation. 
You got to hand it to1 the old timers, they know their stuff.
From all indications the inter-fraternlty league is going to be vory popu
lar this year. There was plenty of practicing done all day Saturday in prepa
ration for the opening games this week.
Ben Lubic was sick last week and John Irwlh had charge of both the 
varsity and Freshman squads. Bob Waddell also gave the boys some pointers.
This evening the varsity passers will tackle Geneva at Geneva, and on 
Friday evening W. & J. will bo met in little Washington.
SEE YOU AT THE FOOTBALL LUNCHEON.
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announces a series of eight Sat
urday Evening Supper Dances 
in the Rose Room at 9 oclock.
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Meyer Davea 
Orchestra.
Call Schenley 0285 
for Table Reservations.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
Aiifhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty j
FRATERNITY DIRECTORY
Acacia630 Clyde Street ............................................................Hiland 9380
Alpha Tau Omega254 Bellelield Street...........................Schenley 9102
Beta Sigma Rho2136 Wightman Street...................................Hazel 9310
Beta Theta Pi5549 Forbes Street...............................................Hazel 3320
Delta Chi Rho1108 Wightman Street.......................................Hazel 9194
Delta Mu1655 Shady Avenue................................................................................I-Iazel 9345
Delta Phi Delta356 North Craig Street.......................Schenley 0721-J
Delta Tau Delta5064 Forbes Street...................................Schenley 9231
Delta Upsilon4812 Baum Boulevard...................................Schenley 91.96
Iota Sigma Delta5601 Wilkins Avenue...............................I-Iazel 9356
Kappa Epsilon4732 Center Avenue.....................Schenley ----------------
Kappa Sigma624 Clyde Street.............................................Hiland 9544
Kappa Sigma Rho444 Amberson.............................................Hiland 9127
Pi Kappa Alpha4807 Baum Boulevard............................Schenley 9285
Sigma Alpha Epsilon4915 Forbes Street...........................Schenley 9211
Sigma Epsilon Phi4929 Forbes Street.............................Schenley 9122
Sigma Nu4921 Forbes Street...............................................Schenley 0659
Theta Xi5&17 Forbes Street..................................................Schenley 9143
Woodlawn Club5814 Forbes Street...........................................Hazel 9422
Now that we have all come back 
from our Christmas vacation and 
have rested up sufficiently to take 
an active interest in what is hap
pening about us, our attention is 
taken by the annual urge, the an
nual breaker of monotonythe lutorFraternity and Inter-Dorhtiiory bas
ket ball v games. Last year this 
branch of' sport was conducted by 
the Y. M. C. A. This year the De
partment of Physical Training under 
the direction of Dr. Esquerre luts 
taken the responsibility of arranging 
and seeing that all the games are 
played "according to Hoyle. The 
official referees will b? Frank Moses 
and Arnold Fink of the P. T. Depart 
nvent, and Chris Bitkema of the 
Swimming Department.
The lid will be lifted on Tuesday, 
January 13, which is today. At this 
time the dormitories and fraternities 
will uncork all of their promising 
materialand live in hope that they 
will be as good as their promise. Of 
course they cannot all win for some
one must lose. There should be 
plenty of action 'and excitement for 
both spectator and participant.
The Scalp and Blade cup which is 
emblematic of the supremacy In this 
particular field is at present held by 
the FI Kappa Alpha fraternity who 
defeated all opponents in the pro
ceeding season without suffering a 
single reverse. Manv of the games 
that were played curlrg the season, 
and in particular the finals wore so 
thrilling and spectacular that even 
the varsity games did not cause more 
comment.
So far the Iota Sigma Delta and 
Sigma Nu fraternities in addition to 
the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity have 
won the coveted cup for one year. 
Should the Pi Kappa fratornlty win 
the cup again this year, they would 
gain permanent possession. The rulo 
provides that the team winning the 
cup' two consecutive years, or three 
non-consecutivc years shall gain per 
inanont possession of the trophy.
The trophy is worth while lighting 
for, and all hearts are. centered on 
having the emblem adorn the mantle 
of) their respoctivo homes. Koop 
allvo evorybody and follow the sched
ule. Try to be at as many games 
as you lmvo time. Como and Join In 
the excitement. If you do not have 
any particular team to cheer for, pick 
one and then follow It through the 
season. You can help to make th 
season interesting not only to yoursole, but also to tho players. It'u 
worth trying, so show up at 
games on Tuesday, January 13, 
you will suroly want to uoo 
othors. How about It?
Games this evening will bn: 
National League.
Delta Upsilon vn. Beta Sigma 
8:30.
Pi Kappa Alpha vs. Theta 
8:30.
American League.
Sigma Nu vs. Delta Mu 7:30, 
Fedoral Longue.
Iota Sigma Delta vs. Kappa Sigma 
Rho7:30.
the
and
the
Rho
XITARTAN SWIMMERS IN 
P.A.A. MEET SATURDAY
SCIENCE CLASS OFFICERS
SENIOR CLASS
PresidentG. . Slye, 5549 Forbes Street.................................Hazel 3320
Vice PresidentJ. S. Schuckert, 621 Brownsville Rd.. .Lafayette 0549-J
SecretaryJ. G. Bright, 1236 South Negley Avenue...............Hazel 2363
TreasurerF. C. Smith, 4929 Forbes Street.......................Schenley 9122
Student Council RepresentativeC. H. James, 5218 Fifth Ave.Sch. 3399
SenateDon A. Gardner (Pres.), 5814 Forbes Street.............Hazel 9422
R. F. Riegelmeier, 616 South Lang Avenue____Franklin 5254-R
F. M. McClelland, 325 Princeton Place.................Hiland 5475-R
JUNIOR CLASS
PresidentJoe Raddin, 5814 Forbes Street...............................Hazel 9422
Vice PresidentF. W. Cook, 4929 Forbes Street.................Schenley 9122
SecretaryA. F. Carson, 524 Bellefield Avenue............... .Schenley 9102
TreasurerJoe Ward, 5020 Dearborn Street.............................Fi. 1177-J
Student Council Representative
J. M. OConnor, 4732 Center Avenue.........................Hiland 9299
SenateF. L. Wagner, 4915 Forbes Street...........................Schenley 9211
Jack Haris (V. Pres.), 5017 Forbes Street...........Schenley 9143
J. M. OConnor (Treas.), 4732 Center Avenue........Hiland 9299
SOPHOMORE CLASS
PresidentLeonard C. Flowers, Irwin, Pa..................................Irwin 3C-.I
Vice PresidentE. C. Plummer, 4822 Baum Boulevard. . .Schenley 9190
SecretaryRobert Bridges, 5549 Forbes Street................................................. Hazel 3320
TreasurerClarence E. Peck, 1535 Tolma Avenue..........Lehigh 2495 J
SenateF. W. Swaile, 7615 Baxter Street.......................Franklin 6711 -J
John V. Bowser, 4807 Baum Boulevard.................Schenley 9285
Leonard C. Flowers (Sec.), Irwin, Pa........................Irwin36-J
FRESHMAN CLASS
PresidentH. H. Groskloss, 3015 Zephyr Avenue...........Federal 0454-R
SecretaryJ. L. Davidson, 748 Franklln Avenue...........Franklin 4249-P.
TreasurerC. F. McClelland, 4807 Baum Boulevard........Schenley 9285
SenateH. H. GroBkloss, 3015 Zephyr Avenue.................Federal 0454-R
Carnegie's tank squud will swing 
into action on * Saturday, January, 
January 17, when four of its repre
sentatives compete In an open swimming meet to bo held in the pool of 
the Pittsburgh Athletic Association 
under the auspices of the A. A. U, 
The meet is open to the public.
Tho four men who have boon en
tered are Bob McGrail and Don 
j Gaylor in the 100-yard breast strok 
i handicap, and Bob Follansbee and Ed 
Ross in the 50-yard Senior A. M. A. 
'Championship. The* entire squad ha: 
been practicing faithfully under the 
direction of Coach Beukema and are 
developing rapidly into form.
There are about twenty candidates 
on the squad at present and if pres
ent indications are correct, a large 
percentage of this number will be en
tered in an open meet on February 
1 at the Pittsburgh Natatorium un
der the auspices of the Pittsburgh 
Press.
The squad was noticeably weaken
ed last week when W. E. Fort of 
Birmingham, Ala., left school to en
ter the University of Alabama. He 
had been showing up very well in the 
back stroke and much had been ex
pected of him later in the season.
BOWAN ASSUMES
CHARGE OF FORMAL
(Continued From rage One.) 
Accordingly, one may expect an ag
gregation proportional to tne size oi 
the ball roomalways an important 
factor when tho affair is a dance.
 Owing to the limited amount of 
fancy formal ralnmont per fratern
ity, only a limited number of tho 
bent men can appear at tho name 
formal occasion. Thus the expectant 
Carnegie Siren is assured of tho best 
choice of men.
New Zealand "Froot-Floh."
The name "frost-fish  applied on 
the South Island of New Zealand to 
fish of a deep-sea species (Lepldopus 
caudatus) often found lying dead on 
the shore during and after severe cold 
 weather. It Is C long ribbon-like Ash 
, of delicious flavor and Is eagerly 
I sought for food.
PENN STATE YEARLINGS 
DEFEAT PLEBES, .38-32
The Plobo cagers opened their sea
son Saturday at State College with 
a. defeat at. the hands of the Penn 
State Freshman, by tne close score 
of 38 to 31!. The Skibo Yearlings got 
off to a good lead but. wore overtaken 
and passed by the State team. At 
this point. Coach Klllingor of the 
Center Countians injected his sqconit 
team, which was allowed to remain 
only a very short time. The Carne
gie score began to creep up to a tie. 
and State's first team was sent in 
again. Prom then on until the end 
of the contest, tho State Freshmen 
had a tough time trying to hold 
their small lead. 'Hie close of tho 
game saw the Carnegie Plebes work
ing like a well-oiled machine, and 
threatening every minute to forge in
to the lead.
The result of this contest comes 
as a delightful surprise to the follow
ers of the Freshman aggregation 
Not so long ago It was mournfully 
stated that the outlooic for the com
ing season was anything but bright, 
as the inelilegibility rules had elim
inated most of the experienced men 
from the squad, but Coach John Ir
win soems to be succeeding in spite 
of that handicap. Next Friday an
other real test will confront the 
Plebes when they tackle the strong 
W. & J. Freshman quintet.
The lineup:
Penn Slate. Carnegie.
Boole ..................F............ Grosskloss
McLinn ...............F................. Monroe
Green ..................C........................ Ritla
Lungren ..............Cr..................... Cowan
Barron ................G.............. Sebastian
Field goalsBarron 5, Lungren 4. 
Boots 4, McLinn, Green, Grosskloss 
3. Ritts, Cowan 3, Sebastian. Monroe. 
Foul goalsLungren 4, Booto 1, 
Green 2!, McLinn 1, Monroe 3, Cow
an 3, Sebastian 5, Rltts 2, Grosskloss 
1. Referee'Stuart..
DEPARTMENT HEAD
CALLED BY DEATH
(Contlnuod From Pago Ono.)
Page. He has boon a member of the 
curriculum commltteo for sovoral 
years, sorvod on the Margaret Mor
rison senate in 1923, wan soorotary of 
tho general faculty for four years, and 
was a member of tho American Asso
ciation of University Profossors.
Profossor Pago was intensely Inter
ested in athletics, and was a propon
ent of clean sportsmanship. Ho was 
an excellent tennis player hlmyolf, 
and sorvod as roforoo at many Carnoglo matches.
In tho words of Mr, Lang, of tho 
Margaret Morrison faculty, who was 
a porsonul friend of tho deceased: 
"Profossor Pago was a typical 'New 
Englandor, almost ovor-conselentlous 
in his work, having a strong will and 
strong convictions, for which ho was 
over willing to fight. Ono of his 
groatost doslros was to Icoop up, and 
even ralBO, tho standards of the de
partment that he supervised, and the 
school for which ho worked."
WILL TYPEWRITE SENIOR
THE8ES AT NOMINAL COST
Miss Orawford of tho Mliltury 
Doparlmont, and Mimi Kuhn ol! tho 
Mlncograph Dopar imeni w11I do typ( 
wrltlng on thoses, otc., iti; !|U,.25 per 
liour, or 25 conta, p'or typowrltton 
shoot. Plauso malta copy ns naut 
and loglble us pessimo.
Blblo In Trannlatlon.
Tho Bible I far In advance of any 
other book In the number of Its trans
lations, for It lias actually been ren
dered In whole or In part Into 770 lan
guages and dialects and the end Is not 
yet In sight. The translation is still 
progressing at the rate of one com
pleto book of the Blblo In a new lan
guage every six weeks, a speed record 
which has been .maintained for over 
twenty years.The Mentor.
C. M. STAUFT
3901 FORBES STREET 
Artists and Engineers' Mate
rials, Stationery and General 
Supplies for Students.
Invest Your Savings In Bonds
For personal investment thoro aro 
few things that offer nn many ad
vantages an Kootl bond. Safety, 
income and rnarketability aro tho 
factoro that meaauro investment 
vnlues and In theao respects good 
bonda aro rated high.
Invest your money In bonds. 
Whether you can ufford ono or 
many, yon will find hero nUillIgent 
Interest In your requirement and 
a sincere deslro to provide Invest
ments that will fit your particular needs.
And remember, you eaa buy good 
bonds in denomination* aa low ua i 9100,
WHOS WHO
IN BASKETBALL
MIDGE MATTER
Aside from being President of the 
Student. Council, Midge, sometimes, 
known as Milo, is famous chieliy for 
his ability on the floor (basket ball, 
that is.) Those who remember the 
second Pitt game last year will quite 
agree. His speed and keen^liooting 
have combined to make him a for
ward, which position lie held on the 
Varsity formerly, but this year 
Coach Lubic intends malting him in
to a guard and he is now practicing 
as much.
Midge coiues from Harrisburg, 
where he played several years prior 
to entering Carnegie. This makes 
him quite an experienced player and 
should enable him to captain his 
team this year very competently and 
stand out as a real leader. Promi
nent in Student Council affairs for 
the last, two years, Midge is also ac
tive all over the campus, being a 
member of Sigma Nu. fraternity, 
Theta Tau, Dragons, Delta Skull and 
Druids.
PAUL K. CONRAD
There are several now men ou the 
squad this year, but none looms up 
more promising than Conrad. Play
ing center he is meeting some keen 
competition and tliougn not sure of 
Ills berth is still certain of a first 
toam job. In the Princeton game he 
was used for a while at 'forward as 
well.
He is another experienced man, 
having played two years with the 
High School team at Oil City, from 
where he hails. Contad is now a
Senior in the Commercial Engineer
ing course, intends to graduate this 
year, and belongs to Dolta Tan Del
ta fraternity. Paul is also some guns 
as a. baseball pitcher. Ho made tho 
team Inst spring, and had tho season 
not unfortunately como to a. sudden 
and unoxpbetod dose ho would
oasily have won his npurs.
PENN STATE WINNER OVER 
SKIBOSCORE AT END 34 TO 21
(Continued From Pago Ono.)
Tho lineup':
Carnegie.
 F............... Matter
J1...... Donahue
.C............... Conrad
McVlckor..............(I................... Lynch
Non: .....................G.................. Bbodo
Field goalsGerhardt 3, Hood, Mc
Vlckor B, Hainan (I, Doiuilmo 2, Mut
ter 2, Conrad, Lynch. FoulsGorhu rill;, 2 out of 5; McVlckor, 0 out. of 
I; Ullamas, 2 out of 3; Matter, (I out 
of !l; l>onuhuo, I out of 4; Lynch, I 
mil of 2; Conrad, 1 out. of 2. Subutltutloiui-Hnmaij for Hood, Pago for 
MacDonald, St.ukomun for NclT, Cook 
for Lynch, Lynch for Cook. Roforoo 
ICrnnt. UmpireWhite.
Rowonted tho Appellation.
They were rival candidates for n ' 
neat In parliament and they mulled 
patronizingly when they mol: In a rail
way train. "My good sir," tin Id Ihe 
first rival, kindly, "wlintovor on earth 
lias prompted you to oppose me In Hi 
fordicomliiK election? You haven't a 
chance to win; It's a donkey to n 
strawberry against you," "Indeed,'' 
wild the other man dubiously, "(hat 
doesnt sound encouraging, but per
haps you wouldnt mind apologizing 
for the liberty youve taken In calling 
me a strawberry."London Tlt-liltH.
Penn State. 
Gerhardt .
Hood .......
MacDonald
Collegiate Barber Shop
L. Danlele and T. Cicero, Props. 
Quick Service by Four Export 
Barbers
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
SHOES SHINED 
HATS CLEANED
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn 
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1925
ALUMNI PAGE
Mining Dept. Starts 
New Training Program
Scheme of Training Miners 
to be in Effect Soon
Tho Mining Department under Cap
tain Stoidle, it supervisor, Jm to bo! 
credltpd for putting into effect a 
unique, program that of 1 "Training 
cdurse In Bituminous Coal Mine for 
Technical Graduates.'' The scheme 
provide for a two yearn of practical 
training in some approved mine after 
graduation, during which the studeht. 
would be taken through all the varl* 
ouh departments with a view to learning tho practical Hide of tho mining 
industry.
The Scheme has been drawn up in 
conmiltatlon with the Advisory Board 
who represents 80 per cent of tho Bi'tumlhouB Coal Mining Interests in 
Western Pennsylvania. Tho Advisory 
Board mot and approved the report 
on Novombor 10, 1924.
The object of thin scheme in to pro
vide an opportunity for tho techni
cally trained graduates to secure sys
tematic training in Coal Mining and 
the ultimate object is to bring about 
hotter conditions in Coal Mining Op
erations,
With this idea in mind the Advis
ory Board have put. into offect this 
program of practical work whereby 
the student after graduation would bo 
earning bis living as well as.be under 
training. At the same time he would 
be a potential mine operator for the 
future,bet ter trainod and better qual
ified.
During his work he would be paid 
a minimum $100 per month with in
crement of $10.00 every six months. 
Iio would be designated as a "Help
er". During his course ho would bo 
moved from one job to the other and 
from one mine to the other if thought 
best.
Iio would not bo required to sign 
tiny contract with tho company he is 
working, but would be at liberty to 
drop the course any time ho likes. 
The company also reserves tho right 
to drop students if they do not; show 
sunicient; intorost in tho work. After 
tho completion of a two years course 
lie would bo rated and given an ex
ecutive or operative position, in tho 
work to which ho seems best suited.
If ho so desires tho student may 
undertake a third years work under 
tho. company with some amount of 
responsibility.
Tho olliclnls of the Co-operative 
Mining Course of the Carnegie lnsti 
tufo of Technology will keep In close 
touch with the studont as approved 
by the mining company conoornod. 
The Oollogo of Engineering will rec
ommend for tho Degree of Engineer 
of Mines a student who has suceoss* 
fully completed the courses of train
ing and presented a satisfactory ThohIm 011 some phono of conl mining oporal.lonrt.
This course also affords the stu
dent a ehaneo of receiving tho State 
Mining Foreman's certificate in lens 
time than in at. present required,
SCULPTURAL STUD I: NT 
RECENTLY MARRIED
Doctor and Mrs, H. M. MeOuskoy of 
Wollsburg, W. Va,, announced the 
marriage of tholr daughter, Margaret 
Virginia, to Mr. Hoy Oilmen Juntos of 
New Cumberland, W, Va,, on January 
8.
Miss McCuskey was a student In 
College of Pino Arts 011 a sculpturing 
course. Mr. James is a graduate of 
drove City College.
Studcnto dotdrlng to do even
ing shopping for gifts and greetIng cards, can get Into the Sing
er Pen and Gift Shop, Jenkins 
Arcade, until 9:30 p. m.
For College Men and Women
SUMMER 1925 
64 33a3-s
and up
College credit up to 8 hours 
if desired
For full particulars address
NEW YORK UNIVERSKTY
Yours Division 
XXO East 42nd Street New York
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
it special priees. 
Also in 
Cameras, Films, Etc. 
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask Cor our free 
calendar.)
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS 
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
[ CLAN NEWS ]
BUFFALO CLAN BANQUET
On tho night of December 20, the 
Carnegie Clan of Buffalo held Ihelr 
annual banquet at which quite a 
nuni/bor of this year's Carnegie 
men wore present. The lasslnjustor 
for the evening was Mr. Richard 
Townsend, who is quite proficient In 
tills capacity. The ilrst speaker of 
the evening was Mr. TO MaeCormlck, 
who gave a resume of the happen
ings and developments at Carnegie. 
MacCormlck, as quite a few will re
member, is a recent graduate and 
has kept in close touch with Caine 
gie since his departure. The guest 
of the evening was a real Scotch
man by the name of "Andy,'' who 
gave a very inspiring talk which 
should have put pep'' into tho best 
of tis. Alan Cass, Carnegie s star 
guard, guest of the Buffalo Clan, 
gave a resume of the football sea
son for the ben oil t of the unfortunate 
follows who could not witness the 
games. Ho also spoke of the pros
pects for the football season of 25. 
All tho follows wore glad to have 
Cass down, and appreciated his talk 
very much. Needless to say, the 
banquet broke tip with everybody 
saying that they had a good time.
[PROFESSOR TRINKS GIVES
LECTURE AT CASE SCHOOL|
Professor Willibald Trink, head of 
the Department of Mechanical l'engi
neering at Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology, gave a lecture last night be
fore the members of the American 
Society of Steel Troaters at Cleveland, 
Ohio, on Fuels and Furnaces. The 
mooting was held at tho Case School 
of Applied Science.
Dr. James Appointed 
To Exposition Board
Chemistry Head to Serve on 
Advisory Board
Architect Receives 
Excellent Position
Former Carnegie Student to 
Study Housing Problems 
in California
MUSICAL CLUBS MAKE 
READY TOR FEB. TRIPS
After the joys of the holidays, the 
Musical Clubs found it quite dilllcult 
to get down to reul work again. How
ever, Manager Lundquist panic over 
and told the members about some 
trips and some local concerts which 
he had planned, and he wants them 
to snap up a bit. They listened with 
joy, and as'soon as he left they sang 
even louder than they did at tho foot 
ball game.s, and the Mandoliners 
played more nolstlly.
Director Kovaelc says he has his 
program made up for tho yoar, and 
the men need only learn those pieces 
which they have been practicing and 
he will ask nothing more. That is 
gratifying to the men, for they are 
having a. tough time managing the 
work outlined for them by tho august 
leader. Stdvo always picks good mu
sic, and thou he makes the men play 
up to snuff. That Is whore tho art 
comes iti.
Director Johnson has a couple moro 
pieces which ho is going to put on 
for tho Qloo Club, and ho hopes to 
have them In shape by the time the 
Ilrst concert comes around, January 
211 In Springdale. That will bo rather 
unfortunato, howevor, for Iilxu in I na
tions start the same day, and Sat
urday is a bad flay for most studonts. 
Howevor, I10 will havo them In shape 
for the later concerts and tho trips.
Manager Lundquist stated that ho 
would like tho rest of tho dope with
hold for the time bolng, so wo shall 
have lo put the article in this issue 
unlinlshod,
PRINTING GRADUATE 
WEDS IN BIRMINGHAM
Dr. Joseph H. James, professor of 
chemistry and head of the department 
of chemical engineering at Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, has accepted 
an invitation from the American Insti
tute of the City of New York to serve 
as a member of the advisory board 
in. connection with the Exposition of 
Inventions to be hold in the Engineer
ing Societies building in New York in 
April.
Other members of the board will in
clude Professor Charles Edward 
Luclce, Dr. Leo Hendrick Baekeland, 
Hudson Maxim, Leo DeForest, Lewis 
Nixon and F. II. Westinghouse.
The American Institute, as the first 
step in its process of re-organizrition, 
plans to hold an Exposition of Inven
tion from April 27 to May 2 for the 
purpose of displaying and explaining 
current inventions to the public and 
of recognizing and rewarding inven
tive genius.
As a member of the advisory board, 
Dr. Janies has been asked to assist 
11 establishing bases for making 
awards at tho exposition and in decid
ing other matters that may arise af
fecting the purpose of the exposition 
of interpreting current inventive ef
fort to the public.
Lillian Roam, daughter j)\' Mr, and 
Mm. 111. I. Roam of Birmingham, 
Alabama, was recently married to 
Frank It. Treschili.!', also of Birming
ham,
Mlio ceremony was performed 011 
December 8,
Miss Roam comes from a socially 
prominent family of Birmingham.
Mr. TroBChser is a graduate of the 
printing course In Industries College 
from ,whlch ho recoived his B.S. de
gree with the class of 1923. , lie Is a 
member of tho A. T. O. fraternity and 
was elected to the Alpha Tau.
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reservo 
System.
Capital.......................$300,000.00
Surplus......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
ARCHITECTS WILL HOLD 
SMOKER SATURDAY NITE
The Annual Architects Smoker will 
be held in the senior Drafting Room, 
Saturday night, the seventeenth, at 
eight oclockIt is the one big time 
that all the architects and their proRobert Finlcolhor, formerly a stu
dent of Architecture at Carnegie, has 
boon appointed head of the architec
tural department of a large California 
construction company.
Mr. Finkelhor is a former resident 
of Jeannette, Pa. He spent several 
years at Carnegie, where he was ac
tive in school affair, being a member 
of the Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity.
During the war, due to his excel
lence in It. O. T. C. work, he was ap
pointed as an instructor in military 
tactics. He did not serve overseas.
After leaving Carnegie, Mr. Finkel
hor was, for a number of years, asso
ciated with some of,the largestarchi 
tectural organizations in the east. 
Most of his work was done in Wash
ington, D. C., and Pittsburgh. At this 
time he was appointed to membership 
in the American Institute of Archi
tects.
Several years ago the expansion in 
California attracted him. Since his 
arrival there, he has achieved success, 
which has been crowned with his 
latest appointment. He is noAv a certiiied architect in that state.
In his new work Mr. Finkelhor will 
be engaged in a research of the par
ticular needs of Southern California 
home builders. It is the purpose of 
his employers to combine the most 
unique and practical ideas into resi
dential designs.
VARSITY CLAN BANQUET AT
WILLIAM PENN HOTEL SAT.
The William Penn Hotel on Satur
day, .January 17, will be the scene of 
the Varsity Clan banquet. Plans for 
the largest banquet yet held have 
been made.- In addition to the big 
feed and interesting speakers that 
will form part of the program, the 
gold footballs will be awarded.
TELESCOPE
EngineeringFoundation 
Appoints Prof. Trinks
Professor Trinks is Only Local 
Representative
Doings About the School.
Arts school is all agog in prepara
tion for their annual Arts Ball.
Industries men are hard at work on 
the plans to have the Gambol of The 
Guilds the biggest and best affair of 
its kind yet held.
Science fellows are racking their 
brain for new or novel stunts to repre
sent their class in the big annual 
Stag.
Margaret Morrison 
Alumnae Hold Tea
Lydia Bates Glock,15,Hostess 
At M. M. Reception
fessors get together and have a great 
celebration. Other years the smok
er has been promoted by the Junior 
Class, but this year it is being fos
tered by the Scarab Fraternity.
A good program of entertainment 
has been arranged, including an or
chestra, stunts, dancers and lots of 
good oats. There will be a big con
test among all those who attend to 
see who is the handsomest man. and 
who can drink the most cider. There 
won't be any charrette this week, and 
all the arkies from plebes up to 
seven-year men will be breaking their 
dates to attend.
Craig Restaurant
The place where all the fellows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
The Only 
 Squirrel Hill 
FLOWER SHOP
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Haxol OMi) Near Forboa
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
The place where all good fel
loes meet and miloy a good 
meal
Special 35c plate dinner, in
cluding dessert.
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
BALTIMOREPresident, Arthur W. Crownover, Maryland Glass 
Corporation, Brora o Seltzer Tower Building'; Vice President, 
Gv S. Deal, Wentworth Apartments,  Cathedral and Mulberry 
Streets; Secretary and Treasurer, P. II. Dickey, 1318 Contin
ental Building.
BOSTON ttoeri'tary, John F. Maxwell, 39 Freeman Street, Wollas
ton, Mass.
BUFFALO President, 1?. G. Townsend, 22 Bidwell Parkway; Vice 
President, B. A. Button, 288 Saranac A~omie; Secretary and 
Treasurer, Robert Porter, 167 Porter Avenue.
CHICAGOPresident, J. B. Patterson, Itavinia, 111.; Vice President, 
Mrs. G. F. MacCaughcy, 515 Vine Street, Park Ridge, 111.; 
Secretary and Treasurer, O. Lundy, 5475 Kiuibark Avenue, 
Chicago, 111.
CINCINNATI SQcffiotary, T. W. Batman, earo Johns-Mnnvillc Co.
CLKVKLANJ) WOMENS CLANPresident, Mrs. Kleanor Clark; 
Vice President, Miss J can Grey; Secretary and Treasurer, Miss 
Catherine M. Allan, 622 East 12<ith Street.
CLHVNLAND President, George A. Eliding, Newman-Stern Build
ing; Vico President, Mrs. M, J. Montgomery, 492 East 108th 
Street; Vico President, Albert May, 12563 Clifton Boulevard; 
Secretary and Treasurer, E. F. Lundeen, 13501 Ashburton 
Avenue.
CONNECTICUT-president, R. W. Arnold, 353 Sigourney Street, 
Hartford, Conn.; Vice President, C. E. Rutherford, 41 Konnctli 
Street, Hartford, Conn.; Secretary and Treasurer, IC W. Fin
lay, 270 Blue Hills Avenue, Hartford, Conn.
DAYTONPresident, Fred Flader, 2505 West Rivervie-\v Avenue; 
Vice President, F. AV. Hcckert, 1127 Grafton Avenue; Secre
tary and Treasurer, George L. Long, 301 Grafton Avenue.
DETROITPresident, W. Ray Williams, care Westinghouse E. & M. 
Company, 1535 Sixth Street; Secretary and Treasurer, J. H. 
Miles, Miles-Appleby Company, 4612 Woodward Avenue.
ERIESecretary and Treasurer, Edwin Gross, care Hammermill 
Paper Company.
HARRISBURGPresident, John G. Todd, 20y2 North Queen Street, 
Lancaster, Pa.; Vice President, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Wood
bine Street, Harrisburg, Pa.; Secretary, Henry Y. Shaub, 20 
North Queen Street, Lancaster, Pa.; Treasurer, Ritchie Lawrie, 
116 Locust Street, Harrisburg, Pa.
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second 
Street, E.
j JOHNSTOWNSecretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
LOS ANGELESSecretary and Treasurer, Frederick Kindl, R. D. 7, 
1007 South Stanley Avenue, Los Angeles, Cal.
MONONGAITELA VALLEY CLANPresident, Conrad A. Stone, 
Box 391, Charleroi, Pa.; Vice President, Miss Alice G. Nixon, 
58 Schoonmaker Avenue, Mon essen, Pa.; Secretary and Treasurer, A. B. Lowstutter, Box 91, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORKPresident, J. A. Cameron, 136 Park Avenue, Westches
ter Park, Tuekahoe, S. Y.; Vice President, M. L. Patterson, 
86 Palisade Avenue, Bogota, N. J.; Secretary and Treasurer, 
E. M. Grtalor, National Supply Corporation, 120 Broadway.
NORFOLK -President, T. D. Fitzgibbon, 811 Holt Street; Secretary, 
James W. Phillips, 611 Raleigh Avenue.
PHILADELPHIA President, Paul \V. Kmmcl, 5710 North Seventh 
Street; Vice President, L. E. Exline, 213 South 47th Street; 
Secretary and Treasurer, John S. Gicking, 220 Sixteenth St.
PHILADELPHIA CLANS OFFICE542 Real Estate Trust Bldg.
PITTSBURGT President, M. R. Walton, 5838 Alderson Avenue.
SAINT LOUISPresident, Paul Klingensmith, 10 Jefferson Road,
' Webster Groves, Mo.; Vice President, Oliver Wilkins, 111 
Waverly Place, Webster Groves, Mo,; Secretary. M. A. Zeller, 
2128 Railway Exchange Building; Treasurer, Nelson P. Rice, 
1064 Arcade Building.
TULSATemporary Secretary, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 S. Quaker St.
WASHINGTON. D. C.rPresident, J. R. Arnold, 24 Socond Street, 
N. E.; Vice President, Miss Harriet Staples, 3611 S Street, 
N. W.: Secretary and Treasurer, A. M. Pringle, 627 Lexington 
Place. N. E.
YOUNGSTOWNPresident, John E. Jackson, 21 Euclid Avenue, 
Struthers, Ohio; Vice President, Harold E. Hildebrand, 327 
Ce^"v Avenue, Sharon, Pa.: Secretary and Treasurer, Ralph P.
Woodward, 165 Carroll Street, Youngstown, Ohio.
Prof. Willibald Trinks, head of 
the Department of Mechanical En
gineering at Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, is included in the ap
pointments of 190 leading engineers 
in twenty-seven cities as local rep
resentatives of the Engineering 
Foundation with national headquar
ters at 29 West Thirty-ninth street, 
Ne>v York, according to an announce
ment from Chairman Charles F. 
Rand of the Foundation.
These engineers, representing in
dustry, education ana the public j 
service, will, it was stated, work 
with the foundation board in prose
cuting a nation-wide plan for the 
furtherance of research in science1 
and in engineering, or for the ad
vancement in any other manner of 
the profession of engineers and the 
good of mankind.'
The foundations work will be enr 
ried on with the $500,000 endowment 
provided by Ambrose Swasey oi 
Cleveland, Ohio, reinforced by a re
cent bequest of $50,000 from the es
tate of Henry R. Towne. A group 
of prominent engineers in New York 
and other centers is charged with 
the immediate direction of the foun
dations affairs.
Juniors are laying their plans for 
the Prom. Some are brushing up their 
old tucks, others are saving the jack 
to rent one and yet others are search
ing for one to borrow.
All students are working frantical
ly to do back work and cram for the 
crucial test not far away.
At the AIumni-Faculty dinner held 
on December 13 in The Carnegie Inn, 
Director Mott gave a somewhat leng
thy and interesting talk in which he 
urged that the entrance requirements 
of Carnegie be raised. Stating that 
our requirements are below those of 
many of the leading schools in the 
country. While this change may seem 
unjust to some of those planning to 
enter, it would, no doubt, be the best 
thing in the majority of cases due 
to the fact that many failures are 
caused by poor preparation. A, stu
dent flunking out of college is quite 
often a tragic event and any steps 
taken to lower the chances should be 
welcomed.
THE MATERIALISTIC ERA
Must of us have been taught that 
the subject matcer of physics isJLwofoldmatter and energy. That was 
the orthodox nineteenth century doc
trine, 'but the attitude on the eight
eenth century was different.. The 
scientists of that day studied matter 
only. The concept of energy was 
not recognized. Forces of all kinds, 
gravitational, mechanical, electrical 
and magnetic were regarded as 
properties .01 matter. The concept 
of lorce was strictly subordinate, 
secondary and auxiliary to that of 
matter.
Gravitation, in fact, continued to 
be thus regarded up to recent years, 
when Einstein suggested that it 
was not a property of matter at all, 
but a space property; ami electricity 
has now gone so far is to reverse 
its former relation, and to claim 
matter as merely as electrical r/iehomonon.
The phenomena or light were ac
counted for by supposing light to be 
constituted of exceedingly minute 
particles of matter emitted from 
luminous bodies. It was recognized 
that such emission of particles must 
eventually result in :i diminution in 
weight of tho body emitting the
light. Failure Lo detect this was 
a ken merely as an indication of the 
inconceivable minuteness of the cor
puscles.
Wo consider it ultra-modern in 
these days ,to speak of stars dis
solving into light. The principle 
difference, however, between the
modern concept and that of the
eighteenth century is in the philos
ophical point of view. The ' older 
concept was thoroughly materialistic; 
that of our day is the opposite.
The phenomena of electricity, were 
likewise explained by the assumption 
of an electric fluid, or rather, two 
fluids, soaked up in matter just as 
caloric was supposed to be. An ex
cess or deficiency of one or the other 
of these fluid disturbed the balance 
and gave rise to the phenomena of 
electrification.
A similar imponderable fluid or 
effluvium was supposed to be the 
cause of magnetic attraction. ^Writ
ers of that period express wonder 
that this emanation from the magnet 
should be able to pass through a 
sheet of glass, or a board, and affect 
a compass needle on the other side.
The Vital Force.
There was \ one of these forces, 
namely what was called the vital 
force, which stands in a class by it
self. While all the other forces were 
regarded materilistieally this one 
force could not ibe so regarded. They 
all looked at it with a sort of su
perstitious awe.
In organic compounds and living 
tissues there was though to be some 
force acting which could not be re
produced in a laboratory. It was be
lieved that it was under the influ
ence rfT this vital force that a plant 
was able to synthesize its carbohy
drates and water (from their ele
ments. This theory was overthrown 
when Weliler made the first synthe
sis of an organic substance, urea,
which he obtained by heating am
monium cyanate. Tins, .chronologic
ally, occurred in the nineteenth cen
tury, in 1S2S, but scientifically, the 
centuries overlap considerably.
Tho doctrine of a vital force died 
hard. In fact, it did not die at
allit emigrated. When many other 
organic syntheses had been achieved, 
and it was finally recognized that 
organic chemistry was only a  com
plicated kind of inorganic chemistry, 
the doctrine of vital force retreated 
before the advancing frontier of 
knowledge into the less known re
gions beyond, namely into the bio
logical sciences. Here the complexMM. SECRETARIAL CLUB 
HOLDS ANNUAL BRIDGE
On Saturday, February 14, the Sec
retarial Club of Margaret Morrison 
will hold its annual bridge party for 
the benefit of the scholarship fund. 
The bridge will be held this year in 
Kaufmanns dining room, at 2:30 p. m. 
This event has been established as a 
traditional affair by the members of 
the Secretarial Club, and the scholar
ships are awarded to girls in the. Sec
retarial Department. The party has 
always been a. success socially as well 
as financially, and the club wishes to 
extend an invitation to the alumnae 
and their friends, and to the students 
and faculty of Carnegie. The follow
ing comimttee is in charge: Miss
Rosemary McCambridge, general 
chairman; Miss Bernice Rentz, pa
tronesses; Miss Mary Carey, prizes; 
Miss Sarah Sussmati, sale of alumnae 
tickets; Miss Wilma Stiller, sale of 
student tickets. The tickets will be 
on sale very soon; and the charge will 
lie one dollar.
The committee is working eagerly 
in preparation, n.nd have secured 
many beautiful prizes as donations 
from Pittsburgh merchants and de
partment stores.
The Margaret Morrison Alumnae 
Association held its annual New 
Years tea on Saturday, January 10, 
in the Little House on Woodlawn ave
nue. Lydia. Eates Glock, 15, was 
hostess, assisted by the following 
aides: Helen Bosworth Orr, 18;
Alice Marshall Nesbitt, 12; Helen 
Senn Crouse, 18, and Lillian Cowan, 
23. Among the out-of-town guests 
were Miss Elizabeth Ream Stoner and 
Mrs. Emilie Bowman Bredvoldt. Other 
guests were Mrs. A. A. Hamerschlag, 
Mrs. James K. Everhart and Miss 
Julia Morgan Harding. Dean Mary 
Louise Brown, Miss Harriet Glendon, 
Miss Marguerite Abbott and Mrs. An
na F. Philput poured tea.
PROF. WALLACE TO GIVE 
COURSE AT U. OF IOWA
In a recent bulletin of the Uni
versity of Iowa, attention is called 
to the fact that Prof. Chester Wal
lace of Carnegie Tech, has consent
ed to go to the Iowa Scnool for the 
summer session where he, with O. 
W. Larkin, director of the Boston 
Settlement Theater, and Professor 
Mabie, head of the University of 
Iowa Theater, will give a number of 
thorough courses in the fields of 
dramatics and voice  training. The 
work will be open to both graduate 
and undergraduate students, and the 
University has hopes of a record 
enrollment.
THISTLE CAMPAIGNP
ENDS TOMORROW
(Continued From Page One) 
ulty and the student body. Many 
novel 'features will be introduced, and 
many of the old features will appear 
in new and fascinating dress.
It will be necessary for all Seniors 
and fraternity men who have not sub
mitted photographs as yet, to have 
pictures taken at Mr. McClays studio 
in Wilkinsburg, as he is no longer 
working on the campus. Immediate 
action on this matter will save the 
staff much'unnecessary work and de
lay.
Just as a reminder, the final Thistle 
sales campaign of the year ends to
morrow.
FOOTBALL MEN TO BE
HONORED AT BANQUET
(Continued Fi_:n Page One) 
the Graduate Managers Office, Alum 
ni Office, A. G. Spalding & Bros., G0S 
Wood street, and from any of the 
members of the committee, as well 
as from class presidents. FIfte tick
ets have been sent to each fraternity 
house and it is hoped that an earnest 
effort will be made to dispose of 
them. Those selling ticketsmust 
give a report to Buddy Overend at 
the Graduate Managers office by Jan
uary l*ltli, since the sale of tickets 
will close on the following da,y.
ity of phenomena was and still is 
so great that among the shadows of 
the virgin forest the vital force could 
;still find a retreat. There are vitalists and mechanists among the bio
logists today; the controversy rages 
violently. I cannot see anything in 
it but history repeating itself.
In this we may s_ee a second 
characteristic of eighteenth century 
science; a tendency to relapse into 
the supernatural. Many of the sci
entific works of the time read more 
like religious homilies wih illustra
tions from the physical sciences 
than treatises on natural philosophy.
SEE MARTIN
FOR GOOD THINGS TO EAT 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAIG 
M. PASQUINELLI
SMOKER WILL BE HELD BY
LOCAL BRANCH OF A. I. E. E.
At the regular monthly meeting of 
the Carnegie Tech branch of the A. L 
E. E. on Wednesday, January 7, Mr. 
Janies, head of the controller depart
ment of the Westinghouse Electric & 
Manufacturing Co. gave an address 
on Control Apparatus.
Mr. James is an authority in his 
field, and a very forcible speaker. Tho 
members present declared it to be the 
most interesting meeting held this 
term.
Mr. Hissom the president of tho 
organization announced that the Elec
trical Smooker would be held next 
month. The Eta Kappa Nu national 
honorary fraternity for Electrical En
gineering students will have charge 
of the affair.
The meetings of the society are 
held the first Wednesday of the 
month. All the students in the Elec
trical Department are urged to at
tend.
LEARN TO DANCE 
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets J
Beginners Monday and Friday* 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and* 
Saturday evenings Private lessons | 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall. ,
Compliments
of
Skibo Ion
MENS STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway i
FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
^\Jiie largest selling 
quality pencil 
in the world
PENCK
give best service and 
longest wear.
Plain ends, per dor. $1.00 
Rubber ends, per dor. 1.20
f\4t all dealers |
Arnericnn Lend Pencil Co. 
220 Fifth Ave., N. Y.
TYPEWRITTEN AND COPY 
WORK
AT REASONABLE PRICES
Have that thesis typewritten 
and get a better grade. 
Work Absolutely Guaranteed. 
Special Rate to Students 
$1.25 per hour 
Miss Sophie Schutzer 
810 Benedum Tree Building 
221 Fourth Avenue 
Phone Court 4127
