Y. W. C. A. 
MEMBERSHIP DRIVE 
NOVEMBER 17-19
GET
YOUR THISTLE RECEIPT 
NOW!
VOL. XIX No. 9CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1924
WILL OBSERVE 
CARNEGIE DAY 
THIS FRIDAY
Classes to Be Suspended 
While School Pays Rever
ence in Memory of Benevo
lent Founder
ADDRESS BY SCHWAB
On November 21, 1924, Carnegie 
will turn out en masse to celebrate 
the birthday of her beloved. founder, 
Andrew Carnegie. This will be the
THISTLE ISSUES CALL FOR r T O Tt* I I \T CC
ADVERTISING SALESMEN ; {J . ^ /VI A K I IN CJ
The Thistle is issuing a call fr !rr/~V M CCT DT A TF\ 
sophomore advertising salesmen. All III /V\ I
those who wish to try out for the :
positions should see Harry Strong, |/^y\T p ATITTiF\AV 
Schenley 9231, or George Murphy. j I J | \ lAllJlxlJAY 
Schenly 9196. Thistle advertising is j w ^ A
not hard to sell, and it pays a good | ----------------------
commission to the salesman. Those I , OO
who help in the work, in addition. | DsVll DogS Claim tO riaVC
have a chance of becoming Business j 
Manager or Advertising Manager in ; 
their junior year. Applications must j 
be put in immediately, as sales are to j 
begin at once. Freshmen interested ! 
in trying out for the Business Staff j 
should also turn their names in now. j
Best Team in History of 
CorpsHave Not Lost a 
Game So Far This Year
FOOTBALL BANQUET
TO BE HARD BATTLE
REV. W. L. McEWAN TO SPEAK 
AT CHAPEL SERVICES THURS.
Rev. W. L. McEwan. pastor of the 
Third Presbyterian Church, will speak 
at chapel services Thursday noon. 
Rev. McEwan is an interesting speak* 
er, and is sure to present an ap
propriate subject.
Dr. Baker will take charge of the 
services, as usual. The music pro
gram has not been definitely decided 
on, but it is certain that some mem
ber of the Music Department will 
sing.
Chapel services are held in the Lit
tle Theater. They have been quite 
popular this year, and are well worth 
attending;
| On this coming Saturday the CarPT T /VA A Y nc QC A Cn\T i negie team wil1 meet one of tlie VjLilYlAA Ui jCAuUIN ; strongest teams in the country, name! ly the Quantico Marines, or Devil 
! Dogs as they are commonly known.
twelfth annual observance of Carnegie | Annual Varsity Reunion is j The public and the student body
Day. A program has been arranged 
that will do full justice to the mem
ory of the great philanthropist and 
humanitarian who made our school, 
as well as many other great educa
tional institutions in the country, pos
sible. The program is as follows:
Organ Prelude ......................John Grotli
March from "The Nutcracker Suite
.............................................................. Grieg
Orchestra, Department of Music. 
Invocation.
Address....................Charles M. Schwab
Trepak from The Nutcracker
Suite ...................... ............ Grieg
Orchestra, Department of Music
Announcements ........................................
.......Thomas Stoclcham Baker, Ph.D.
Alma Mater....................J. Vick OBrien
Organ Postlude.........................John Groth
Carnegie is .especially fortunate in 
having Charles M. Schwab, the steel 
magnate, as the principal speaker of 
the day. Mr. Schwab, one of the in
dustrial and financial leaders of the 
present era, can talk not only of bus
iness and economic conditions, but
Scheduled Early in 
December
I prone to under-estimate the strength 
I of this team, due to the fact that the 
scores which they made were not very 
large. The fact that their scores were
---------------------- ! comparatively low would lead one to
Early in December the annual ath-1 think that their team was not in the 
letic luncheon will take place. Grad- habit of scoring. It must be consideruate Manager Buddy Overend and I eci( however, that this team has not 
Alumni officials are at present buried I played any set-ups. but on the conin a chaos of plans and suggestions | trary. has played all of the strongest 
from which Carnegies favorite eating j teams which it has been able to schedfest will emerge. It is the Plaid's j uietraditional dinner and is sponsored j The Marine team is composed alby the Pittsburgh and Varsity clans. I m0s't entirely of ex-college stars and 
The banquet climaxes the football. as a result has a very formidable, ex
season, and with just two more games j perienced attack. Such stars as E. E. 
before the curtain is dropped-on Fall j Larson, ex-captain of the strong 1921 
sports, the committee in charge of ths Navy team; Johnny Groves and Jack 
affair is completing arrangements. | McQuaid who played on the Maryland
THISTLE OPENS 
WEEKS SALES 
DRIVE MONDAY
Salesmen Invade All Men's 
and Wo , ens Dormitories 
and Fraternity Houses as 
Well as Campus
OVER 250 ATTEND 
HEATING INSTITUTE
First Project of Kind Ever 
Attempted Here Proves 
Great Success
The exhibition and institute for 
heating and ventilating has turned 
out to be a decided success. Prof. 
Dibbles statement that this plan was 
advisable was amply born out by the 
fact that over 250 attended, while but 
150 were expected. All the men were 
enthusiastic, and benefitted materially 
from the lectures given by Profs. Dib
ble, I-Iower, Thomas, Leighou and 
Lang. Representatives from all over 
the State and from all other cities at
tended. Pittsburgh . city inspectors 
were also well represented. The large
tentative date.
Definite arrangements have not 
been made but the committee is posi
tive it will be the best yet. When 
the boys gather around the board they 
are going to be supplied with real 
eats and be entertained by a selected
. . i group of "hail fellows well met, in can give us, also, a true picture of An-! .. ... ... T. f ~ . ., 1 ,, . . the lingo of the committee. Jokes,<Itpw I iirnppip flip mn Mr Sf.hwnh ^
December 6 has been suggested as the state team which defeated P^imsyl-1 attendance and the gratifying endrew Carnegie, the man. Mr. Schwab 
is one of a small group of men in 
whom Mr. Carnegie confided, around 
whom he built his vast industry, and 
with whom he fought his way to the 
top rung in the ladder of success. It 
(Continued on' Page Four.)
Edgewood Will Hear 
Mens Musical Clubs
First Concert of Season Next 
Friday Night
The Musical Clubs are up and rarin 
to go. With their first concert three 
days off, the Clubs are on the hop, 
and the rehearsals are frequent and 
close together. Last week there were 
two, taking in half the members at 
each session, and the work was out
lined for the men, and carried out 
according to this outline. The new 
pieces wfere learned, and the outfit 
ia^ in fighting trim. The Mandolin 
Club had no such extra rehearsals, 
for their work is of a different nature, 
and then men can practice better at. 
home.
Sunday, the clubs had their respec
tive rehearsals in the respective halls, 
and things took on the aspect of mid
season. Inasmuch as the grades have 
gone in, the men are through worry
ing, for, as the boys 3ay Its all over 
now Director Johnson has had the 
Glee Club men learn their music by 
heart, which is a feat that has not 
been done here-for the past two sea
sons. . The erstwhile director, Ed 
Rheil, did not think the men could 
learn the words and music too, so he 
taught them something about the 
music, and. let the words be gleaned 
from the sheets: Director Ivovack
has told his men that there will be 
fewer music stands needed this year, 
for they too, would have to know their 
music note for note.
Friday night the Musical Clubs 
start the season of concerts with a 
 trip to Edgewood high school, and 
repprts from that place show that 
' the seating capacity of the house is 
quite large, and that they have sold 
all but the first and last rows. These 
two rows are reserved for music crit
ics, and scouts from the other musical 
(Continued on Page Three)
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
speeches and toasts will be away 
above par.
Included in the program is a fare
well to the graduating athletes. At 
this banquet letters are to be award
ed to the deserving ones and the cap
tain for the ensuing year will be an
nounced. Topping this section of the 
exercises the gratitude of the entire 
student body will be tendered to the 
cross-coutry and gridiron heroes.
With the bidding of adieus and the 
acceptance of letters the football 
stove, league will go into session. Un
written history of past years will be 
reviewed until the old stove warms 
up. Enthusiastic old grads will tell 
of their heroes and deeds that ser 
the world on fire in their day. but 
those tales will be forced into the 
background by the recounting of this 
seasons history making plays.
Beede and Obies feat in the Pitt 
victoryBeedes spectacular run and 
Obies subsequent touchdown  are 
bound to come In for their share ot 
(Continued on Page T^o.)
First Shilling to Appear 
Week Before Christmas
Many Campus Notables Will 
Be Contributors
vania 3-0 last year; and Harry Liversedge of California, are found on the 
roster. Frank Goettege, their quar
terback, is a very dangerous man and 
will bear watching. Both Goettege 
and Liversedge are men of large sta
ture and weigh well over 200 pounds.
The Skibos will again be compelled 
to play against a team which is much 
heavier not only in the line but also 
in the bficlcfield. This and their great
er experience will make the Marines 
a decided favorite. A team of the)" 
weight and experience matched 
against the speed and trickery of 
Wally Steffens team should make a 
game worth while seeing. The fol
lowers of Skibo will, no doubt, again 
see their Plaid fighters scrapping for 
every inch of ground with their tra
ditional fight. Tlifcre is no reason 
why they should not. for they have 
had sufficient rest since the gruelling 
contest, at State College to make them 
new men.
A glimpse at the Marines record 
(Continued on Page Three.)
Last Football Dance 
Will Be Held Saturday
tliuslasm shown by the men practi
cally ensures annual lectures, such as 
those just given.
This project is the first one of the 
kind ever attempted bore, and the 
second one ever attempted by any In
stitute of the country. The purpose 
of the lectures was to give out to the 
men in industry information which 
would otherwise bo confined to the 
school,. It. was widely advortlsod, as 
is shown by the wide attendance. In 
connection with the lectures, exlilbl 
tlons were given by such companies 
as the National Tube, Standard Saul 
tary Conyiany and the Armstrong 
Cork and Insulation Company.
During the time that the men wore 
not in class, UV_ loarned something 
about Carnegie, as many of them woro 
seen strolling about the campus. Some 
of them commemorated their brief at
tendance here by buying Plobo caps, 
which were quite in evidence. A num
ber were present, at a Science Plebo 
Trial.  This novelty they onjoyod 
highly, and it: probably gave them an 
Interesting sidollght on college educa
tion,
Techsons Will Play After 
Marine Game
The first Shilling to be published 
under the Jerry Perry regime will 
appear on the campus the week befor Thanksgiving vacation. The staff 
is aiming to make this issue the most 
interesting ever published; and if the 
printers do their work as skillfully 
and effectively as the staff and con
tributors have done theirs, the next 
Shilling will be a real treat to any
one who can appreciate, literary merit 
in publications, and of course this is 
within the power of every Technite.
Did you know that Obie Newman 
has a literary turn of mind? At any 
rate, his name will appear on the 
contributors page of the next Shill
ing.  The contributors page is a 
novel feature to be introdued in this 
number. It contains a short introduc
tion to each one who has contributed 
to the issue. Even the cover repre
sents Tech talent, it having been de
signed by Rosslyn Doyle, a student 
of the.Applied Arts Department. Ono 
! really cant afford to miss that story
ENTERS TENTH SEASON ** 0bi\New1 a",! ,!h,os?articrfsby members of the English Minor De
partment.
Just a word to the ambitious writ(Continued on Page Two.)
The Carnegie Symphony Orchestra, 
under the leadership of J. Vick 
OBrien, is now entering upon its 
tenth season as the leading orchestra 
of its kind in Western Pennsylvania. 
Since the discontinuing of the Pitts
burgh Symphony several years ago, 
our orchestra has enjoyed a deserved
ly prominent place in Pittsburgh 
muscal circles.
Without
CIVIL ENGINEERS HEAR
DRAKE ON FILTRATION
Mr. C. F. Drake, a graduate of Massaschusetts Institute of Technology, 
now Superintendent of the Filtration 
Division. Bureau of Water, City of 
symphony orchestra, j Pittsburgh, gave an interesting lecmany of the richest and finest works j ture to the members of the Student 
in the entire musical literature would; Chapter, American .Society of Civil 
be unheard. Beethoven, for example, Engineers, on Wednesday, November 
who was probably the world's groat : 13, taking as his subjott "Filtration", 
cst composer, speaks most eloquently: The speaker stated that although
in his nine symphonic compositions, j crude filtration methods were used in 
And the Carnegie Orchestra presents I ancient times, the movement to obthe works of the master in a very! tain pure water in this way has been 
finished manner. It presents pro * slow. The first known filtration sysgrams worthy of any of the major j tem was installed in Chelsea, near 
professional orchestras in the country, j London, and its worth proven in 1849, 
The orchestra will give several con-i when districts outside the filtered 
certs this season in Carnegie Music j water section were scourged with 
Hall. These will be given on Sunday; cholera.
evenings, and will be free to the in 1S66 an American Civil Engineer 
mus:c-loving public. Besides these j was sent abroad by the city of St.
(Continued on Page Two.) [ (Continued or* Page Two.
i si . s i.
The last Football Dance of the sea
son will be held on Saturday evening. 
November 22 at the Union from 9:00 
to 12:00 following the game with the 
Quantico Marines. The original and 
inimitable Techsons Orchestra will 
spread their oil on this occasion.
The Football Dances have been ex
ceedingly popular with the students 
this year and have been better pat
ronized than ever before. These 
dances are distinctly and preeminent
ly of Carnegie, by Carnegie, for Car
negie students and alumni, and posi
tively no outsiders are admitted to 
the closely guarded precincts of the 
Union. This assures their being of 
a truly collegiate nature. The music 
of the Techsons .Orchestra has been 
winning devotees at every turn, and 
their reputation is enough to excite 
real interest in this dance.
Our team is doing remarkably well 
this season, and in the farewell Foot
ball Dance in its honor every loyal 
student should plan to pay homage 
to the men who have so nobly car
ried the glorious gonfalon of Carnegie.
Hoot Mon! Lets make this the pep
piest dance of the year!
PUPPETS NEXT ISSUE 
IS FOOTBALL NUMBER
Kilties Invade Monon. 
City Armistice Day
Inimitable Band Wins Much 
Applause Up the River
The nex issue of The Puppet will 
be the noted Football Number. All 
of the upper classmen know what a 
success this issue has been for the 
past years. It will appear sometime 
before Thanksgiving vacation, and 
will be bigger and better than ever.
There is plenty of work for young 
aspirants on the art staff this year. 
All work handed in must be original. 
Work copied form other magazines 
would tend to lower the standard of 
Puppet. The editor v/ould also like 
to have some volunteers for editorial 
work. Get busy, industrious people, 
and either draw or write for your 
paper.
The Puppet was rated very high in 
the last number of College Humor. 
Manyof its jokes and cuts appeared 
in the autumn issue. Tills fact tends 
to raise the standard of our magazine 
higher than ever.
The exchange in other college 
papers has been very complimentary, 
and a great many of Puppets jokes 
have appeared in them.
Back up The Puppet and help make 
it one of the best publications in the 
country.
On Armistice Day the Kilties per 
formed In Monongahola City in the 
parade and at the football game there; 
on the invitation of the American 
Legion. They competed against four 
other prominent bands which were 
present, and the head of the program 
committee remarked that the Kilties 
had made the biggest lilt. All the 
Carnegie songs were played, anti fre
quent encores were demanded by the 
crowd. Monongahla City is the homo 
town of two members of the band; 
Cerutti, the librarian, and Meridith, 
Jimmy Anderson also hails from this 
town.
At 10:00 oclock a special car call
ed for the band, which was under 
the leadership of Garber. After they 
had arrived at their destination, they 
paraded about with the veterans, af
terwards supplying music at the foot
ball game. They had a very success
ful day, and returned to the city at 
7:00 oclock that night. The pres
ence of the Kilties was highly appro 
ciated as there are many Carnegie 
alumni located there.
The Kiltie Band is experiencing an 
unprecendented rise in popularity, for 
they have many concerts in view, and 
many requests for their services com 
ing in. It is therefore fitting that they 
should be properly attired. There are 
(Continued on Page Two.
SORORITIES CLOSE FALL
RUSHING PERIOD, NOV.
* .IGEN. ASSEMBLY
GET PHOTOGRAPHED
The Thistle Sales Campaign is on. 
The signs which mysteriously ap
peared yesterday announced the open
ing of the campaign, which will last 
just one week.
The sales are to have the wellknown personal touch. An active, 
dynamic salesman has been appoint
ed for each department, Dormitory 
and Fraternity. Equally active, but 
perhaps more persuasive saleswomen 
have been appointed for each Girls 
Dormitory.
The salesmen will bo adorned with 
ribbons exemplifying the seriousness 
of their endeavors. And equally 
prominent will be the yellow sub
scription blanks. Every student is to 
be interviewed, personally, and the 
benefits of subscribing to Carnegies 
Year Book are to bo explainod to him. 
So, when the finis is written on the 
21st., the committee can complacently 
conclude, Theres One In Every 
Home!
The price Is tho same as last year. 
$4.50. If one does not have It all 
now, it can bo paid In Installments. 
The price, however, Is tho only thing 
that Is tho same, for tho Editor, E. 
G. Whoolor, has unfolded some new 
Ideas, and plans which will make a 
biggor and bottor Thistle.
Every uppor-classman knows about 
The Thistle. But, perhaps, tho plobes 
have been wondering II Cnrnoglq did 
not have an annual. Porlmpa, some 
enthusiastic ones wero deciding to 
print ono, as they did hack In High 
School. But. these worthy plobes can 
sparo thomsolvos, Carnoglo doe hnvo 
a Year Book. So, meet Tho Thistle 
representatives and get tho yollow 
' o.nii t.roasuro It until tho book 
comes out.
Work is progrossing satisfactorily. 
A new view section 1ms boon obtained 
and colored Inserts painted by gif tod 
Sonlors In Painting and Illustrating, 
Thoso views will symboll/.o college 
life. Just tho thing, to show Mother 
and Dad, when they want to soo just 
what tho commons dons look llko.
Construction of Mens 
Infirmary is Planned
The noxt; play to bo given by the 
Drama Department will be A Pair Of 
Spectacles, adapted from tho French 
by Sydney Grundy, and staged by B. 
Iden Payne.
There will bo but two performances 
given, which will take place on Der 
cember S and >1. However, the play 
will be given again later in the term.
On December 3, tho play will bo 
given before tho American Institute of 
Chemical Engineers, which group of 
men meet hero during that week.
V. S. M0LLENAUER 
TO HEAD ARTS BALL
Aztec and Russian Costumes 
Considered  Committee 
Welcomes Ideas
Propose to Erect Two Story 
Brick Structure
The need of an infirmary has long 
existed at Carnopjo. All,hough slatlstics show only five cases of Illness 
from September. 1923 to the Christ
mas vacation, thoro wero soventytwo cases of slcknoss from January 
first to the end of tho selio''1 year. 
This emphatically shows the neces
sity of proper facilities of caring for 
those ill. Heretofore, several dormi
tory rooms have been used as an in
firmary, however, their fallacy was 
lack of quietness and proper facilities 
for preparing nourishing foods.
Consequently, the need for a separ
ate building became so incessant, Dr. 
Baker appointed a committee, headed 
by Mr. Wurts, to investigate the pos
sibilities.
It was suggested that plans of a 
two story brick bungalow-type struc
ture with vegetable cellar and kit
chen in the basement and space for 
ten beds, bath, and linen closet on 
the main floor, be submitted by twelve 
senior architects,
At the mooting of tho Art School 
Senate, Vernon S. Mollonauer was 
chosen tho chairman of the Arts Ball, 
which is to bo held on Friday, Febru
ary G. 1925.
Mollonauer, who Is a senior In Ap
plied Arts, is tho prosidont of tho 
S'gtna Epsilon Phi, a member of tho 
Dragons and Vico President of the 
Student Council. With a man of his 
ability at its head thero are good 
prospects of making tho Arts Ball a 
greater success than ovor beforo.
Specific work on tho Ball will be
gin this woolc. Such committees as 
the costume, designing, publicity, so 
cial and entertainment will b chosen, 
Tlioy will Immediately start to work 
and docldo what kind of hall It will bo.
Last years ball was doslgnod to 
represent tho Chinese period of the 
tlmo of Marco Polo. Tho sotting of 
this year's alllair Is yot to bo do* 
tormlnod. Mollonauor Is opon to every 
kind of suggostlon, and will gratefully 
consider any plan or scenery l.homo 
which Is practical. All tho effects dosired are carried out In an elaborate 
manner, which In previous years loft 
nothing to bo desired; however, this 
does not mean that suggestions of 
morlt are necessarily highly expen
sive when produced. To the con
trary, a pinii capable of being fully 
worked out without unduo expendi
ture would bo most accoptablo.
Ono design under serious considera
tion by the commlttoo Is tho restora
tion of an anolonl, Aztec Indian city. 
Another Is the reproduction of llfo In 
Russia, only wo suggest that 
Bolshovllcs bo admitted unless bear
ing an Arts School Registration card, 
Again, It might ho pointed out, that 
Arctic sconos would ho easily ar* 
ranged,and tho rnl'roshiuouL commit
tee would have Its problem solved by 
serving Eskimo Plos or frozen Tarts, 
Llfo In the South Sea Isles could be 
vory ploturosquoly reproduced, al(Continned on tago Throe.)
Graphica Xmas Card 
Campaign Starts Wed.
AT MUSIC HALL 
THIS MORNING
Variety of Entertainment to 
Be PresentedPep Meeting 
to Work Up EnthusiasmFor Marine Game Saturday
NO SPEAKER ENGAGED
A General Assembly will be held1-'' 
today in the Carnegie Music I-ISlK 
This assembly was scheduled for last 
Tuesday, but because of the holiday', 
was postponed. Assemblies are un-. 
usually attractive this year., especially 
tho musical programs. Obie Newman 
is in charge of the entertainment, and 
always provides' a diversified and 
lively program.
The program for this Tuesday will 
Include numbers by Eva Sppncer and 
Al Johnson, I-Iardle Albright and John 
Gilbert. Obie refuses to disclose any 
further information, but promises a 
very good program. He is always 
rather mysterious about the program, 
but generally has a pleasant surprise 
In storo.
Thero will bo no speakers at this. 
assombly. This announcement will 
moot tho approval of all, for it is evi
dent that assemblies are moro interest
ing and attractive to the studont, body 
when thoro is no longthy address.
This Is tho last, assombly before the 
Thanksgiving recess, and should bo of. 
Intorost. because of this fact. It will 
also be tho last ohanco to got the foot
ball dope" on our remaining. If VOL.. 
siblo, ono of tho coachos will give a 
short talk. As a result of tho rocont 
campaign to chango the Tech in our 
songs and yolls to Carnoglo," It has 
boon necessary to rovlso tho yolls and 
songs. Those yells and songs will bo 
tried out at this tlmo. Al Mlnottl will 
lend a short cheering rally, and toll 
us about tho stunts" for tho Marino 
game. Lot us all bo there!
Junior Banquet Date 
Changed to Dec. 12
F. W. Cook Elected Chair
man of Committee
Eight Hot Designs to 
Sold on Campus
Be
On Wednesday of last woolc, the 
Graphica Club turnod loose In Car
negie a full forco of rarin-to-go sales
men, as tho inaugural bang of the 
1924 Carnegie Christmas Card Cam
paign. As a matter of fact, such a 
high grade sales forco would not have 
been necessary, since tho cards, de
signed in the Art School especially 
for this campaign, sell themselves on 
sight. There are designs to suit every 
taste, from that of the followers or 
Robert M. La Follette, to the more 
conservative proteges of President 
Coolidge.
choicewould insure the committee 
of plans.
The tentative plans are for a build
ing 53 feet by 26, feet, centrally lo(Continued From Page Two.)
The proceeds of this campaign, orThis competitive ganize(i and executed by the social 
proposition oftgjjgpilttlng the diwlngs clu|, th? ,)rl]]UnK de||||ent, will
bo used to finance an inspection trip 
through the foremost printing estab
lishments of the East during spring 
vacation. This trip is an annual affair, 
and judging from the accounts of 
former trips (or rather from the parts 
of the trips that could be accounted 
for) much knowledge of great value 
to student printers Is obtained.
The cards, despite the fact that 
they are vastly superior to the usual 
run of such merchandise, are very 
reasonably priced. As an additional 
inducment to prospective purchasers,
GIRLS GLEE CLUB WILL 
SING AT GUILD CARNIVAL
Officers and members of the Girls 
Musical Clubs are being very secre
tive these days. Under pressure they
The fall Sorority rushing period 
ended last Sunday at midnight, and 
now a five-day period of silence Is be 
ing kept. On Thursday the rusher* 
signify to which Sorority they wish to 
be pledged.
A marked change and advance may 
be noted In this year's rushing rules, 
over last year's, Bids were not given 
last year until the second semester, 
but this year the Inter-Sorority Coun
cil decided to change the rules In 
favor of early rushing.
Several statements have been 
Issued by the Inter-Sorority Council 
concerning Silent week, namely:
1. Rigid silence begins on midnight. 
Sunday, November 16, and lasts until 
4 o'clock on Friday, November 21.
2. The answer of the rushees must 
be in the Deans office by Thursday. 
November 20.
<.3. Any violation of the above ruler 
will be acted upon by the Inter-Se 
Verity Council.
confess that there is something up. the Craphica will Imprint on each ortheir sleeve. They direct tho Inquirer der of six or moro cards of ono design,
to officers of the Carnegie Tech Guild, 
who in turn, decline to commit them
selves, Since they are so very cau
tious it seems too bad to give them 
away, but tills Is the result of investi
gation of the mystery.
Tho Girl's Musical Clubs are co
operating with tho Carnoglo Tech 
Guild In providing entertainment for 
tho Christmas Guild Carnival. Tho 
Dramats are In on tho secret, too, for 
they are to have leading parts In a 
pageant of a S'xtoenth Century Christ
mas on a manor. Tho Girls' Glee 
Club, costumed In tho style of that 
time, will form a chorus. Their part 
will be to sing carols and provide the 
nusic of the pageant.
Tli's is a new idea, and we. cannot 
blame the Guild for wanting to keep 
t dark. Plans .have not been made 
"finitely, but the idea is there, and 
vill surely prove successful. Watch 
'or more news on the subject.
the full name of the purchaser, in 
eluding all Initials and titles. The 
sender of a Graphica Christmas Card 
is thus guaranteed against receipt of 
the same card as greetings from a 
friend In future Yuletldo seasons.
All students, professors, and friends 
(Continued on Pago Two,
COSMOPOLITAN CLUB WILL
MEET AT THE HEINZ HOUSE
Tho next mooting of tho Inter-Col
legiate Cosmopolitan Club will bo 
held on Friday, November 21, at 8 p. 
m., at the Heinz House.
it will be. more or less, in the na
ture of a business meeting. Members 
willing to introduce their .friends as 
members of the club are requested to 
nmsent tho names at the meeting.
'rhn.ro wf.ll be a varied program, as 
usual, and an all-around enjoyable 
evening is safely assured.
Tho Junior Banquot commit,too at ' 
a long doforrod meeting Iasi Monday 
at noon olootod F. W. Cook, of Hclenco 
school, to tho chairmanship, Thin elec
tion hi an important, stop toward clear
ing up tho difficulties surrounding 
tho committee since It will not luivo 
to attempt to sottlo Important quos. 
Iona blindly without a leader to as
sume the responsibility. Cook, who> 
Is vieo-prosldont of the Junior class,, * 
should prove, to be capable to I.audio* 
this Important position.
In addition to electing a chairman,, 
the committee, at tho request of the! 
Margaret Morrison Guild, changed' 
the date of the banquot from Satur1 
day, Docombor 13 to Friday, Decem
ber 12. Saturday, the original date, 
happens to conflict with tho annual 
carnival of the guild, a fact which wait 
overlooked by tho committee.
A hot controversy looms over tho 
selection of a hotel In which to hold 
the affair. The committee has a hotel 
In tho Oakland district under consid
eration but may be forced to chango 
Its plans because of opposition from 
the members of tho class. A major
ity of tho Scicnco men favor a down
town hotel where they feel more free 
to lose some of the dignity which In
variably accompanies men of the third 
year class while in the vicinity of tho 
school.
Charles Basset and Pete Seaman, 
the men in charge of the entertain
ment, have lined up several novel 
stunts, the nature of which they re
fuse to give out. However they give 
assurance that the entertainment, will 
be of a warmth sufficient to keep 
everybody happy for the entire even
ing.
BOWMAN TO SPEAK AT 
S. I. E. MEETING NOV. 24
Mr. Howard D. Bowman, a Carnegie 
graduate, will address tho Carnegie 
studont chapter of tlie Society of In
dustrial Engineers at their monthly 
meeting, November 2-1. Mr. Bowman 
will speak on Production Processes. 
Tho lecture will be' Illustrated with' 
moving pictures of processes in tile 
modern plants of the American Radia
tor Company, of which Bowman Is the 
sales representative in the West Vir
ginia territory.
The meeting purposes to Introduce 
the Industries Hophomoro to tho So
ciety at the Illustrated lecture and' 
dinner at Carnegie Inn. Although tho 
date of tho meeting is subject to 
change, It is thought it will bo, Mon
day, November the twenty-fourth, at 
6:00 p. m. The charge for the dinner ' 
will be nominal.
It Is Interesting to know that the, 
Carnegie chapter of the Society of In
dustrial Engineers was one of., thefirst student chapters to be organized, 
obtaining their charter in the spring, 
of 1922 from the NationalSociety. 
Massachusetts was the first chapter. . 
organized.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWO"HE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. NOVRMRPR 1Q. 1(VM
R Carrie Tartan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council.
Entered in the Postoffice uf Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
EDITOR-IN-CHIEF
FRED C. SMITH................................................................................................Schenley 9122
P. D. ROSSINI
ASSOCIATE EDITORS
A. E. KROGHE. C. FRAZIER
EDITORIAL STAFF 
I*. H. Harris A. F. Carson R. R. SitzlerD. A. Gardner
MANAGING EDITOR 
FRED T. PHELPS............................................................................................Schenley 9102
NEWS EDITORS
W. WINNING ..............
V. B. SMITH..................
..................Schenley 9071)
................Franklin 5547-J
ALUMNI EDITOR.Schenley 9180
REPORTERS
R.L. Lepper, M. Hollinsliead, M. Dutt. E. Tallmadge, M. Tucker, R. Hand, 
C. J. Byrne, S. P. Williams, N. Borzella
ATHLETIC EDITOR
J. CHRISTOFF ...................................................................................................Schenley 92S5
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Margaret McFall, J. F. Harris, J. A. C. Foller, McWilliams, D. M. Davidson, 
. William Bernardi.
BUSINESS MANAGER
W. M. GIBSON..Schenley 9211
ADVERTISING MANAGER
N. C. WESER.Schenley 9122
CIRCULATION MANAGER
D. MOSKOVITZ.Hazel 2873-M
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
J W. Metro, A. Grodner, L. Barbrow, N. Alexander, J. L. Bauerle, J. P. 
.'Strlzak, Lois Snyder, A. Perreton, G. H. Carl, B. Supowitz, L. Sachs, H. 
Kandell.
> .The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for .the make up.
! The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
.Signature will be withheld if desired. All news items must be in the student
post office before 4:30 Thursday______________________________________
i ' Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Office hoursDaily 12-30-
1:20.
THE H. AND V. INSTITUTE
There is nothing which enhances the reputation of a school any 
more than the holding of an institute for the benefit of a certain 
profession providing the thing is well enough attended and is of 
some real value to those attending. The Heating and Ventilating In
stitute held here last week was very good in all respects. There were 
present over a hundred more than were expected, and'all the meetings 
proved very valuable to the men.
The Institute served in a way to link up tlie theoretical side of 
the business as typified in tho curriculum with the practical side as 
known by the men. It proved of benefit by giving both sides of the 
trade and their relation to each other. Meetings were held every 
day.
In the odd moments, the visitors were taken and snown around 
the campus. Carnegie Tech and its working was explained to them 
in detail and a very favorable impression was created. These are the 
men who will send their sons and daughters to Carnegie Tech, for 
they realize in full the benefits to be obtained here even better than 
who are here.
This Institute, the first of the kind, lias been so successful that 
..Lmay hope to establish it as an annual event.
' We offer congratulations to the Department of Heating and 
Ventilating.
IN GENERAL
The football season is nearly over, two more games. And then 
what? The spirit shown here has been as fine as ever it has been. 
Start jg out with a supposedly mediocre team, the students supported 
it in wonderful shape, and as a result we have had a good season, 
rega-less of the result of the two remaining games.
The cheering has been the best we have heard here in four years. 
The spirit has been great. But, are we going to lay down now? 
There is always a powerful incentive for school loyalty when there 
;are thousands out watching a football game. When we play basket 
iba.ll before a few hundred; when the t ack season begins without the 
'continuous thrill and concerted cheering; when the baseball team 
plays; will there be the same enthusiasm? There should be.
That will be the real criterion of our spirit, if we can show the 
same pep for the remainder of the year. We have made a wonderful 
start. So far as Carnegie Tech is known, so far has the reputation of 
-our cheering spread. Let us uphold that reputation. Let us sup
port our football team. We can do it. It may be that the incentive 
is not so great, but that should not matter. They are all Carnegie 
teams; they deserve our support and loyalty. Lets keep up the good 
work.
Student Calendar
TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18
General Assembly....................................................................'...11:20, Music Hall
WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 19
PlayThe Critic................ .........i ;...........8:30 P. M., Little Theater
THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 20
Chapel......:....................................-.............................12:50 P. M., Little Theater
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 21
f Carnegie Day Exercises..............................................12:20 A. M., Music Hall
SATURDAY, NOVEMBER 22
FootballQuantico Marines.................................................3:00, Forbes Field
iFootball Dance...........................................................-.............................9:00, Union
THURSDAY, FRIDAY, SATURDAY, SUNDAY, 
NOVEMBER 27, 28, 29, 30 
THANKSGIVING RECESS
INSTITUTE NEWS
Douglas otewart, Director of the 
; Carnegie Museum, has announced the 
1 schedule o the Sunday Afternoon 
Free Lectures for the season of 
1924-2&, beginning November 9. 
There will be twenty of these Lec
tures which proved so popular last 
year. They are all illustrated and 
; will be on Sunday afternoons at 2:30 
oclock m the Carnegie Museum Lec
ture Halli. The schedule is as fol
lows:
1S<24
November 9The Golden East, 
Burma and Java, Harry C. Ostrader.
November 16Bird Colonies of the 
fGulf Coast, George Miksch Sutton.
November 23Trail Riders of the 
.Rockies, Colonei Philip Moore.
November 30Four Seasons  A 
Motion PictureRaymond L. Ditxnars.
December 7Two Weeks in an 
Earthquake Lake, Dr. Otto E. Jenaiings.
December 14Hunting Big Game 
in Africa, Martin Johnston.
December 21Lure of the North, 
X/. C. Armstrong.
Decembar 28Lapland, G. Carvetli 
Wells.
1925
January 4  Mounting Museum 
Groups, Remi H. Santens.
January 11Silk, Natural and ArUficial, Prof. Alexander Silverman.
January 18Passing of the Ola 
West, Colonel Charles Wellington 
Furlong.
1 January 25The Grand Canyou1, C. 
Vo. Williamson.
Vi
February 1Colonel Birdseyes Ex
peditionBy Boat Through the Grand 
Canyon, Colonel C. H. Birdseye.
February S'Round the World, 
Nathaniel/ Spear, Jr.
February 15Bryce's Canyon, Wil
liam Muller.
February 2Over the Himalayas, 
A. Avinoif.
March 1On the Trail of the Au
rora Trout, William H. Rinkenbach.
March 8Beauty and Wonders of 
the Insect World, A. Avinoff.
March 15Mexico, Harry iC. Os
trander.
March 22Argentina, Arthur Sterry CoggeshaH.
UNIQUE ANNIVERSARY
One hundred years ago this month 
the Campus of Princeton University 
was honored by a triumphant visit of 
;he Marquis de Lafayette, famous 
French soldier and statesman, who 
had come over from France at the in
vitation of the Preisdent of this coun
try. The distinguished veteran of the 
American Revolution arrived at 
Princeton, escorted by a large retinue 
which included George Washington de 
Lafayette, the Marquis son.
An old record of the visit still ex
tant mentioned that the royal party 
was entertained at its arrival by a 
late breakfast in the Princeton refect
ory which was decorated beyond rec
ognition. After looking at the build
ing of the university, the Marquis 
was taken to a circular canopy, erect
ed in front of Nassau Hall for his of
ficial reception. Here an address was 
made and -lie degree of Doctor o" 
Laws was conferred upon him by 
President Oarnahan.
! THE VOLCANO i
This colyumnisting business isnt j 
what its cracked up to be. Instead 
of writing up the Physics experiment 
that is due tomorrow, the editor must 
rack his brains in vain effort to fill 
the space that his contributors have 
left vacant. The results are as weak 
as Skibo coffee.
Some time ago it became evident 
that however accurate the Tartan 
might be as a purveyor of news, yet 
due to its appearance on only one 
day out of seven, it must devote its 
columns to the plans for the morrow 
and neglect the happenings of yes
terday. Hence the Volcano shall 
hereafter contain a brief gazette or 
the most important happenings of the 
past week.
Sunday November 9Musical Club 
rehearsal remains unhampered.
Monday, November 10  No com
plaints registered by residents of 
Boss Hall"Whats the use? is ex
planation given.
Tuesday, November 11Kilties in
vade Monon. City. Inhabitants learn 
that Carnegie is a college and not a 
brewery.
Wednesday, November 12At 12:30 
Tartan appears on campus. At 12:31 
Tartan staff disappears from campus.
Thursday, November 13R. O. T. C. 
record attendance. Thistle picture 
taken.
Friday, November 14  Plumbers 
forget dignity. H. and V. Institute is 
enjoyed by students.
Saturday, November 15Five Mag
gie Murphs pass out at Shilling Bridge. 
Must not talk for two weeks is doccors verdict.
There are doubtless a few events 
that have been overlooked such as 
the Chemistry Seminar Tuesday after
noon and the management humbly 
apologizes for such omissions but 
lack of space necessitates .the exclu
sion of all but the most important 
events.
A.I.C.E. Will Hold Its 
Winter Meeting Here
WEEK IIS THE
WORLDS NEWSIN OUR LETTER BOX
We observe that the Song Book 
Committee is now offering a prize of 
five dollars for the best march sub
mitted and doubtless It is due to the 
eager interest the students are com
posing aforesaid march, that we are 
afflicted with such a derth of contri
butions. The editor has written an 
exquisite piece himself, sort of a med
ley, in a way, which he is offering 
here because be is sure no one will 
ever see it anywhere else. It should 
be sung to the tune of Onward 
Christian Soldiers and It should be 
sung as it is read.
Dear.old Tech, Carnegie Tech,
Within the bounds of Schenley.
Oh Tech, Tech, Tech, Tech
Thats the place for me.
Take the ball around the . end, boys, 
Touchdown sure this time,
Si McNadd was a farmer lad,
Run right through that line.
There was a grand old Highland man, 
No other can I see
For theyre fighting for the glory 
Of Carnegie.
The author is undecided as to what 
he should call it. After submitting it 
to several friends he heard it called 
so many things that ho shall leave it 
unnamed for he feels sure that his 
readers will call it what they wish 
anyhow.
Tho VOLCANO lias become aware 
of a new influence iindormlning the 
campus which is threatening tho very 
physical well being of tho student 
body. Two have already caught pneu
monia and quite a number of others 
are gradually succumbing under Dr. 
Marks bicarbonate of soda and argyrol treatment. What can cause such 
infernal resultsthe Anti-Garter Camnnign now gaining force on the camp
us.
Disregarding everything else, this 
seems to be an awful sloppy habit 
to cultivate. The clocks in mens ho
siery is hardly stiff enough to keep 
such apparel in place and though the 
general trend seems to be toward 
rather strong color effects, these will 
hardly lend the necessary stiffness. 
If you must go without garters, boys, 
we sugegst that you either shave and 
powder or else have your hose starch
ed so that it will stand up.
CONSTRUCTION OF MEN'S
INFIRMARY IS PLANNED
(Continued From Page One.) 
cated on the plot of ground between 
McGill, Boss, Miller and Englebrecht 
halls. The structure, it is thought, 
will be built by the building construc
tion department of Carnegie, as a 
part of their course. The structure 
will be built of brick, in harmony with 
the surrounding buildings.
It will unavoidably require, how
ever, at least a year before the pians 
mature. Meanwhile, the students 
have propose^ using McGill Hall club 
room for the sick until the comple
tion of the mens infirmary.
i Financial Effects Of the Election.Carnegie Faculty Members Death of senator Lodge. 
Arranging Program Thc Ncw
The winter meeting of the .Ameri
can Institute of Chemical Engineers, 
which conies to Pittsburgh this year, 
with headquarters at the Hotel Scliennel. will take place December 3 to 
December 6.
The meetings and entertainments 
will be held at the Mellon Institute, I iailroads of the country increasing
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 125.000,000 in ono days business, ami
and the University Club. j the making of millionaires over night
The headlines since the Presi
dential election, in regard to thoj 
Stock and Produce markets, have 
startled us with such captions as An 
average of 2,500.000 shares a day for 
five dayssome stock rising from 12 
to 14 points as U. S. Cast iron Pipe 
and American Car; tho valuo of tho
The Dramatic Department will give 
a short play for the members on the 
evening of December 3, which will be 
followed by a reception and dance.
The society was founded in 190S. It 
was formed by a group of industrial
such men as W. C. Durant, Charles 
Schwab, G. F. Baker, Leonard Replogel and others.
Any short-run analysis of market 
changes is difficult to give, and likely 
to be very inadequate. The psychochemists, who desired an organiza-1 logical factors of the Republican elec
tion in which technical accomplishtioriconservatism vindicated, no 
ments were required for membership, j radical changes in our laws, a probTlie qualifications for membership j j^ble decrease of taxation, no change 
in both junior and active body are n tiie Transportation. Act, which
such as to insure an organization of 
high standing.
The local membership is not large, 
because Pittsburgh is more a metal
lurgical than chemical manufacturing 
center.
The members of the society, who 
are on the Carnegie faculty, are: Dr.
means that proposed mergers and in
creased incomes are probable, and a 
host of other conjecturesall have 
led to an increased buying and selling, 
in good part, by out-of-town custom
ers from the South and West. The 
professionals themselves, while buy
ing some and selling more, are not
W. F. Rittman, Mr. L. C. Turnock and quite sure what the future is going
Dr. J. H. James.
These men are busy on the various 
committees that are working up the 
arrangements for the meeting.
Members of the Carnegie faculty, 
who will read papers at the meeting, 
are Dr. W. F. Rittman and Prof. W. 
Trinks.
STUDENT TICKETS FOR 
LECTURES AVAILABLE
to be.
There seems to he no doubt but 
that we are in for a slight inflation in 
prices and buying. Industrial con
cerns have begun to get orders. There 
is a slight decrease in unemployment, 
and a drop of half a point in call 
money, indicating plenty of money 
and a rise in the price of sterling, ap
parently showing more activity in 
foreign buying. Such evidences, and 
more, indicate that there is basic 
justification for some of tho flurry, 
part of it, however, being mob psy
chology and the frenzy of the crowd. 
This condition is likely to last a 
month or more.
* # * *
Again, the passing of a groat man 
causes us to stop and to consider tho 
place that he filled and the loss that 
has been sustained. I-Ionry Cabot 
Lodge, who died in Cambridge on 
November 9. was an aristocrat, schol
ar, politician, essayist and gentleman 
of the old school in every souse that 
the term connotes. Mr. Lodge had 
the usual New England background, 
born of old stock, educated in tho loro 
of his sea-faring ancestors and with 
their love of tho sea Instilled Into 
him. 1-Ie took his collogo work at 
Harvard, and three years later gradu
ated from tho law school. Later ho 
went back to teach American History. 
While there he edited Tho North 
American Review and lator The Inter
national Revlow. Thou followed a 
period of writing over a term of 
yearsLife and Lottors of George 
Cabot". "Short History Of English 
Colonios in Amorlca and bio
graphical lives of Wobstor, Aloxandor 
Hamilton and Washington.
Having a comfortable income, ho 
believed, as did Roosovolt. that ho 
owed his first duty to his State. IIo 
enterod politics as State lloprosentatlve In 1880-81. In 188(5 ho was sent 
to Congress and, in 1803, to tho Souate, whore ho romalnod, constantly, 
until tho time of Ills death. Thero ho 
was always tho scholar, always tho 
aristocrat and upholder of, the tradi
tional in American politics. During 
tho World War ho was Republican 
lloor loader and later majority loader 
under Wilson, a Democrat. Ho bocame particularly prominent In.Ills op
position to Wilson and the League of 
Nationsbut it was tho same Lodge 
who. In May of this year, Introduced 
the resolution for a World Court,
Mr. Lodge, In spite of his views,
The -next of the pifSc lecture pt* | * "n0 ,r, "}"sented under tire i.usplcos of Cm-j American po It am I conHtuntly wm,
negle Institute of Technology, accord-. 'K|u "R 0,1 tlml dividing Hue between 
Ing to an announcement from Presl-! I,l,c l"- ratio. of thought, endent Tho,huh S. Baker, will bo given : leavorlng alwayH to preserve fit
on Tuesday evening, December 2, by ?** BgjM. cholnrly, aristocratic
pi. Arthur lj. Day; Director or the ln r 
Geophysical Laboratory at the CarStudent tickets for the series of 
fifteen lectures to be given by the 
University Extension Society of Pitts
burgh in Carnegie Music I-Iall 011 Mon
day evenings are available at the 
special rate of $1.00, and can be se
cured at the Dean of Mens office. 
The price for non-students is $3.50. 
This year's program appears unusu
ally attractive. It includes the fol
lowing speakers and topics,
JANE ADDAMS 
Nov. 24, 1924Political and Social 
Movements in the Orient. 
GEORGE PIERCE BAKER 
Dec. 1, 1924Have We A11 American 
Drama?
BRUCE BLIVEN 
Dec. S, 1924Is Democracy a Fail
ure?"
HAROLD D. FISII 
Jan. 5, 1925How Littlo It Takes 
to Make a FoolHow Much a Man 
of Genius.
EARL BARNES 
The Problems of the Smaller Euro
pean Countries."
Jan. 12, 1925Tho Now Republic of 
Turkey."
Jan. 19, 1025Tho Attempt to Mod
ernize and Unify Poland."
Jan. 2G, 1925Sol f-doto mil nation In 
tho Littlo Baltic States. 
nNooNve Om brrO
Feb. 2, 1925Tho Penitentiary from 
. the Standpoint of a Phychologist.".
S'. K. RATCLIFFE 
Tho Now Great Britain.
Feb. 9, 1925Politics."
Feb. 1(5, 1925"Tho Social Order. 
Feb. 23, 1925Industry." 
EDWAR ALSWORTH ROSS 
Mar. 2, 1925"The Social Revolution 
in India."
DR. DAY WILL DISCUSS 
VOLCANIC ACTIVITY
negle Institution of Washington, D. C.. 
and widely known physicist. The sub
ject of his lecture will be "Some 
Causes of Volcanic Activity.
Mr. Warren becomes tho oldest
Senator, followed by Smoot and La
Folletteno ono of them being ac:
qeptable to the party as a leader. So,
, , ,r , the mantle will probably fall 011
 V 3 a U<1 6 t 1 ono6' 1G| i Wordsworth, whose ability as a speakCJIV^E^lS,A?e8,,sen, "ni80? |er and legislative guide, are well?> Ddegree In 18!)<l rile honorL, .m|, ^  Boral,...... r\P Uf* 7^ I-.00 < 11 cr\ hnnn i'ftTt. .ary degree of Sc. D. has also'been con:will fall, in all probability, the Chair
ing tc the announcement, no cards 
of admission will be required.
NEW HANGMAN NEEDED
IN BUDAPEST, HUNGARY
By The Associated Press.
Budapest, Sept. 25.Although ruth
less cutting down of expenses, lias 
emptied many a government office, 
and civil servants still in municipal 
employ cling tightly to their jobs, the 
Hungarian 'government has been ob
liged to advertise, in order to fill one 
vacancy, that of hangman.
A young, sturdy man with strong 
nerves, is asked for to roplace Mich
ael Bali, who is retiring after 30 years 
service and means to live In ease with 
his large family on the small estate 
lie lias purchased at Fad, near Buda
pest, out of his earnings. Ball is 
suffering from rheumatism in his 
right hand, and feels it is time to 
make way for a younger man. He is 
famous for his gentle treatment and 
compassion for the condemned, and 
his last consolation always consisted 
in a whisper "It does not hurt and will 
soon be over.
(erred on him by Groningen .Unjver-, Qf po rohuion8. due t0
Bity, Columbia University, and Prince[ ev0 th0gh p(jl)c|es nr0
ton. From 18.14 to 1897, he was InhostlIe Ut the administration. The 
structor ot physics at Yale, and after bel|et that Butler Cool.
three years ot service :n Germany on |dge.s campalBI1 manager. wm |,B apsclentlfic work, lie was appointed hy-j |nted  the vat.m.y cauflcd ,)y 
sical geologist with the U. S. GeologI-1 the (leath o lhe Senat0I.from Mas-cal Survey, where lie remained for j sachUsetts<
six years in January of J 907, Dr. Day j ________________________
was a pointed Director of the Geopliy-1 
j sical Laboratory in. the Carnegie In-j CIVIL ENGINEERS HEAR 
stitution of Washington. DRAKE ON FILTRATION
The lecture will be presented at *
Carnegie Tech at 8:30 p. m. Accord(Continued From Page One.)
Louis to study European plants and, 
as a result of his recommendations a 
slow sand filtration system was inGRAPHICA XMAS CARD stalled in Poughkeepsie, N. Y.. it be
CAMPAIGN STARTS WED. ing the first plant built in the United 
States. Later a plant was Installed 
at Somerville, N. J., In which the 
chemical method of segregating the 
impurities was used.
.The city of Pittsburgh was rather 
slow in falling In line with other large 
cities of the country as regards water 
purification, and consequently had a 
much larger death rate, duo to typhoid 
fever. Since the adoption of a jlow 
sarid filter system, however, the 
death rate In tho city, due to this 
disease has docreased rapidly, and Is 
now loss than the average for com
munities using filtered water.
Mr. Drake Illustrated his talk with 
various slides giving some very ab
sorbing vital statistics.
i
Dear Editor:
Its a crime for tho Tartan to razz 
the follows tor choering at State. I 
was ono of tho fellows who went and 
in the section where I was sitting tho 
,cheering was fine.
But disregarding my opinion, here 
is the opinion of tho head choer load
er, Buck Taylor of Penn Stato: "I 
Inivo never heard hotter cheering 
when a team was losing."
Very truly yours,
M. D. KALLFELZ.
Dear Editor:
After reading your strong condem
nation of the choering exhibition giv
en by tho small hut loyal Carnegie 
crowd that went to State. I all 
for sitting down and writing you a 
scathing letter on the subject of raz
zing the people who do tho host they 
can to promote Carnegie spirit in
stead of those who stay at home anti 
do nothing.
After thinking it over, however, I 
decided that ye Editor was only hu
man and that ho may have boon sit
ting in the wrong place (or perhaps 
ho was ono of tho stay-at-homes) 
and so did not really hear the cheoring. Assuming that this was tho caso 
l want to tell ye Editor that some of 
tho girls \vho attended house parties 
at State and wero sitting In tho State 
section during tho game, said that they 
wore proud of tho Plendld choering 
exhibition given by Carnegie and that 
tho Stato people surrounding them 
said that they had never hoard, on 
Boavor Field, such strong consocutlvo 
cheering from tho side of a losing 
team.
You will probably hear a groat dojil 
more on this subject from others who 
were at tho game, so I will close my 
note with this suggestion: construc
tive criticism is for tho good of Car
negie,V but razzing is nothowever, if 
you feel that you must razz something 
or somebody pleaso check up your 
opinions,. beforo publishing . them in 
the Tartan, with thoso of several 
other people scattered throughout 
college, for even an editor is not in
fallible.
E. G.
FOOTBALL BANQUET
CLIMAX OF SEASON
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
discussion, as the thrilling periods of 
the present campaign are gone over. 
And what the stove leaguers forgot to 
bring forward will be remembered 
by the principal speakers of the af
fair.
His Honor. W. J. Steffen, and you 
all know Wally, will speak. Tho com
mittee is positive of that. With the 
erasure by the students or all efforts 
of the chefs culinary art other speak
ers prominent in lhe football world 
will entertain. Tho committee is de
sirous of having Rod .Grange and 
Knute Rockno tell "How they do it.
SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
ENTERS TENTH SEASON
(Continued From Pace 1) 
formal appearances, the orchestra will 
play at the Carnoglo Day exercises 
next Friday.
Any student who plays an orclies^ 
tral instrument acceptably will bo 
very welcome to join the orchestra. 
Tho personnel of the organization is 
mainly of students of tho Music De
partment, but other students who, are 
willing to regularly dovoto two hours 
on Suiiday afternoons and Thursday, 
nights, are welcome.
FIRST SHILLING TO APPEAR
WEEK BEFORE CHRISTMAS
(Contlnuml From lJaco One.) 
er. Tho Shilling S'taff would appreci
ate the results of your lltorary efforts, 
whether they ho In tho form of prose 
or poetry, Inspired or uninspired. This 
invitation' is oxtondod also to the 
would-bo artist, for Lhe Shilling noods 
illustrations for poems and storios. Al
though tho Shilling is published by 
women students exclusively, anyone 
may contribute to It. The Staff Is en
deavoring to mako tho Shilling moro 
reprosontatlvo of tho studont body In 
gonoral.
Tho Shilling Bridge was hold last 
Saturday afternoon at Kaufman and 
Baor's Auditorium. Tho proceeds of 
tills bridge will do much toward mak
ing tho Shilling bigger and even 
hotter than It has ovor boon boforo.
'So watch for the Shilling tho woolc 
boforo Thanksgiving.' You roally cant 
afford to miss it. for It, comes out 
only twice oaoh somostor. Do your 
bit by making a contribution, and by 
subscribing for ovory Imsuo,
First Church of Christ, 
Scientist
Clyde Street, near Fifth Avonuo
Sunday, ll A. M. and 8 P. M. 
Wednosday, 8 P. M.
Sunday School, 11 A. M.
Grace Reformed 
Church
Dithrldgc and Bayard Streets 
Dr. Frederick C. Nau, Paator.
Bible Class ..................................9:45
Sormons for Students at tt A.M. 
Loaguo of Youth al. <5:30 P. M.
KILTIES INVADE MONOM.
CITY ARMISTICE DAY
(Continued From; Page Ono)
115 members In tho hand, of whom 5*1 
hnvo kilts. Moreover mapy candidates 
have boon Itirnod back on account; of 
lack of equipment. Garber aslca that 
anybody who can play tho cymbals 
report to him Immodlatoly.
ADVERTISE AND GET RESULTS
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Rooorvo 
Syatcm.
Capital - -...................$300,000.00
Surplus.........................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
Bi**
CLOTHES
before
they are 
popular 
with
the mnaocu
From Our Tailor Shops 
DIRECT TO YOU
Save tho Middleman' Profit. 
Made to Your Mcnnure.
All Wool, $29.50
Nationally Known 
Justly Famous"
Our reprosontatlvo, Mr. Wil
liam . Marlow, will display al. 
Slclbo Inn Wednesday and 
Thursday, Docombor 5 and -1.
A .Christmas delivery guaran
teed.
The foreman looked him up and 
down Are you a mechanic? he 
asked.
No, sorr, wau the answer. Oim 
a McCarthy Montreal Daily Star.
(Continued BYom i'age On.e)
I who are too eager to wait for a perI sonal solicitor, will be cordially re
ceived at the sales tables in various 
. parts of the Institute. All those who 
cannot stand in line more than fif
teen minutes, will receive (prompt at
tention by calling at the Printing DeI partment in Industries.
With the campaign humming along 
at its present speed, advertising of 
this kind is roally unnecessary. The 
Graphica desires to give everyone a 
chance to take advantage of tills 
splendid opportunity, however, re
quires that this article be published. 
Do not forget, opportunity gets around 
to your door about as often as Hai
leys Comet visits the earth.
| The Graphica has adopted a real 
Christmas spirit slogan, Give a 
! little, get a lot." It is designed to 
' work from you to them, not vice 
I versa. If you do not believe that, try 
an order; the cards are guaranteed 
to give good service for one year. 
As one of the star salesmen express 
t Buy Graphica ChristmsT Cards; 
they are all aces.
Mr. ManningWhat does ferment 
mean?"
Dot Dunlap"When anything begius to work.
Mr. Manning"Well, suppose you 
start to ferment."
Her lips said "Yes, 
Her eyes said No, 
But which one lied 
Ide like to know.
Students Tours to Europe
Summer of 19'2.5
\IND out how economically and comfortably you can go 
to Europe next summer. Thousands of students went 
' last summer in the exclusive third class cabins on U.S. 
Government ships. For the United States Lines are 
setting new standards of comfort in low-cost travel. 
Clean, airy, comfortable staterooms, inviting public rooms, the best 
of food, exclusive deck and dancing space, daily concerts: all con
tribute to a delightful voyage. Thecostof passage is only $8y and up.
Investigate now! Send the coupon for full information and 
illustrated literature, including a 32.-page booklet written by a 
Princeton Professor telling of his actual experience on one of 
these trips to Europe and containing suggested itineraries.
This is your opportunity to enjoy all the cultural and educa
tional advantages or a European trip at minimum cost. Talk it over 
at home during the Christmas holidays. But get all the facts now.
United States 
Lines
45 Broadway New York City 
Managing Operators for
UNITED STATES 
DIPPING BOARD
UNITED STATES LINTS 45 Broadway N "
Snidimi Tonrn PcpU . 886 LC
r,ity
Ileasc send me literature Including the booklet "Low
CoatTrIp to Europe. If I go date will lie about--------
__________There will he________persona In my party.
Name____________________________________________
\

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
&PLAID ATHLETICS
PLEBES END SEASON 
WITH 15-0 VICTORY
Potomac State Normal School 
Completely Outplayed 
By Yearlings
The plebe football team ended its 
season in a blaze of glory Saturday 
by decisively beating the strong Po
tomac State Normal School, score 
15-0. This score, however, does not 
show exactly the relative strength of 
the two teams.
Early in the game the plebes dem
onstrated that they are a vastly dif
ferent team from that which perform
ed earlier in the season against Westinghouse Tech and oher teams. They 
worked with clock-like precision, the 
ends took down their opposing ends 
time after time, the interference 
opened up holes and the backs moved 
fast. The showing of the plebes was 
a revelation to their followers, and 
shows that the victory over Steuben
ville High last week was no fluke.
The battle was fought throughout 
in enemy territory, the plebe goal 
never once being in danger. The freshmen repeatedly carried the ball to 
within Potomacs ten-yard line, only 
to lose it on down. The visitors de
serve a-world of praise for their stub 
born resistance when their goal line 
was threatened. It was only tiieir 
valient defense at such times that 
kept the score down to such small 
proportions, for the plebes took the 
ball to the ten yard line on five dif
ferent occasions and were able to go 
over the last chalk mark only once. 
This was in the second quarter when 
Moorehead. who had replaced Grosskloss, circled left end for the remain
ing six yards and a touchdown. Allen 
failed to kick goal.
The other touchdown was made on 
a reverse forward pass, Langfitt to 
Sebastion, in the third period. Lang
fitt took the ball on what appeared 
to be an end-around play. Instead of 
running with the ball he heaved a 
long forward pass to Sebastian then 
proceeded to elude two tacklers who 
remained between him and the goal, 
and raced thirty yards for a touchdown. 
Allen for the second time failed to 
kick the resultant goal, a bad pass 
from center giving him no chance.
Allen came through in the first pe
riod with a pretty field goal from the 
twenty-five' yard line. It was the sec
ond time the freshmen had cairied 
the ball far into enemy territory, and 
after being held for three downs the 
plebes decided to try to score via the 
field goal route. Sebastian held the 
ball and Allen kicked it squarely be
tween the uprights.
Everyone of the plebes who got into 
the battle displayed stellar football. 
The end runs of Moorehead and 
Grosskloss deserve special mention. 
Both boys tore off long rung around 
the ends and off tackle Hess hit the 
line hard, and went for twenty yards 
once on the1 spinner play. In short, 
the plebes made. 24 first' down., to 
three for Potomac. Sebastian also 
did gbod work, catching a couple of
The Singer Pen and Gift Shop in 
the Jenkins Arcade will give you rea
sonable prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
Chew it after 
every meal
IV stimulates 
appetite and 
aids digestion. 
It makes your 
| food do you more iiljiiliiiiliminilTuiiiiiumE good. Note bow 
It relieves that stully Seeling 
alter hearty eating.
^Whitens teeth, 
sweetens breath and 
> Itstheooody V mat
HOW TO SECURE TICKETS FOR 
MARINE AND NOTRE DAME GAME
Student tickets will be necessary 
for admission to the student cheering 
section at Forbes Field in the tem
porary left field bleachers. The stu
dent athletic book is all that is re
quired, no additional charge being 
made. The books, however, are? not 
good for any consideration on the 
reserved tickets, If reserved seats 
are wanted, reservations should be 
made at once by sending self-address
ed envelope together with check or 
cash to Graduate Manager Overend. 
Applications are coming in fast for 
these games. Already reservations 
for boxes in the second tier exceed 
the number available, so some per
sons are bound to be disappointed.
FOOTBALL BANQUET TO 
BE HELD DECEMBER 13
The date for the yearly banquet in 
honor of the football team has defi
nitely been set-for December 13, and 
alumni and students are requested to 
keep open that date until final ar
rangements are made. As last year, 
the banquet will be a joint affair given 
by the Varsity Clan and the Pitts
burgh Clan. The place has not been 
definitely decided upon, but will be 
either at the William Penn Hotel as 
last year or at the Carnegie Inn. Fur
ther announcements will be made 
next week.
Last year a record attendance of 
about three hundred persons attend
ed the banquet, and even more are 
expected this year. The affair was 
marked by appropriate speeches and 
the presentation of gold footballs to 
the letter men. These footballs were 
given as a special reward for beating 
Pitt. Gold footballs will again be 
given this year, while the speeches 
will not be lacking in oratory or plea
sant recollections.
passes for good gains, one for fifty 
yards. The freshmen tried five passes 
and completed four of them for a gain 
of 100 yards. Joe Eaton, former Car
negie player, was in the Potomac line
up. McCleary did the best work for 
the losers.
Though this game ends the plebe 
season, it is possiole that they will 
have one more scrimmage against the 
varsity scrubs this week.
The line-up:
Freshmen. Potomac Normal.
McMClelland . ...la. E.................. Winters
Allen ....-----------. .L. T.......... Holtzman
Comack ___________________ ..L. G..Athey
Neff .........................C......................... Aspe,1
Johnson ........R. G...,.... Denrback
Marshall ...........R. T..____ Kerchoval
Weaver .'.............R. E............ Robinson
Sebastian ..............Q.................. Janewltz
Grosskloss ...........L. H........................Eaton
Schaughency .. .R. H_:______Josephs
Hess ........................F................ McCleary
Substitutions  Freshmen, Langfitt 
for McClelland, Moorehead for Grosskloss, Grosskloss for Moorhead; Po
tomac, Pelchy for Kercheval, Bubbel 
for Pelchy, Barnett for Winters, Dan
iels for Barnett. Vachon for Dearback, 
Patterson for .Tanewitz, Potts for Mc
Cleary, Wissler for Eaton. Touch
downsMoorehead, Sebastian. Place
ment Allen. Try for point  Allen 
missed 2. RefereeBloom, Umpire 
Slack. Head linesmanSmith.
Plebe Scoring............3 6 6 015
On the Plaid Screen
J. F. CHRISTOFF
THANKS, MR. LANAHAN
Last evening the entire varsity football squad, together with the grad
uate manager, the trainer, the football managers and the coaches, were 
guests of Mr. Frank J. Lanahan, Chairman of the Carnegie School Committee 
on Athletics and President of the Fort Pitt Malleable Iron Company, at a 
dinner in the Fort Pitt Hotel and a theater party afterwards. Mr. Lanahan 
was host at a similar affair last year. In each case he wanted to show how 
he felt toward the boys for defeating Pitt, and judging from the huge suc
cess of the party there was no doulit in the minds of anyone regarding his 
feelings. We are inclined to believe that if the Plaid should win oyer 
Notre Dame that Mr. Lanahan would present the team with the William 
Penn Hotel or the City Hall.
SO FAR
No one has come out for assistant manager of the Rifle Team. There is 
a wonderful opportunity for someone to fall into a mangership of a recog
nized minor sport at this institution if he acts quickly. Just report to Man
ager Kelly at the Rifle Range at 412 Arts School any week day after 4:30. 
The first match will be run off early iii December, so do not delay.
TARTANS TO PLAY AT SOUTH BEND
Buddy Overend and Wally Steffen spent Armistice Day with Director 
of Athletics Ivnute Rockne of Notre Dame. The object of the visit was to 
determine where the 1925 Carnegie-Notre Dame game was to be played. Ac
cording to a previous contract the game is to be played at South Bend. 
Rockne refused to make any changes, so it appears that the Plaid will have 
to travel there next season.
The fact that Notre Dame will not come to Pittsburgh next season adds 
to the desire of the fans in this district to attend the game here this year. 
It is a rare treat to witness a championship team of the caliber of the 
fighting Irish in action. We look to a record crowd at Forbes Field Novem
ber 29.
MARINES WILL BE TOUGH
Despite the fact that the Marines were able to defeat Dickinson College 
by only two touchdowns, they have a powerful eleven. This is clearly 
indicated by their 28-0 victory over Detroit Saturday. Wash Jeff could do no 
better than 18-6 against the Detroit team. And we all know what W. & J. 
did to Pitt and Carnegie.
The Marines team is composed of players who have had college train
ing before attending the Training Corps at Quantico. Not only that, but 
many of the players have gained experience on posts other than Quantico 
and have then been brought to Quantico for the All-Marine team at that 
post.
The Marines are a colorful team, and make a big hit everywhere they 
go. They have acquired a national reputation for hard, clean playing. They 
are big and fast, well coached and have had plenty ot' experience. To us 
they look like one of our toughest opponents.
INTERFRATERNITY BASKET BALL
The writer has made several inquiries regarding where the interfrater
nity basket ball games are to be played this season. So far he has secured 
nothing definite. The varsity court will be available on some nights, and It 
is suggested that a court could be placed at one end of the gym. But this 
could not be done if the bleachers were up at that end,, we think.
It might be a good idea for the Interfraternity Council to get working 
on this matter at once. It is liable to be a bigger problem than appears at 
first hand.
COACH HALFERTY DOES WELL
Considering the fact that he was not blessed with a world of material 
this fall, Coach Halferty of the cross-counti*y team has produced results in 
the varsity and Freshman meets. While every meet was not won, a credit
able showing was made in each. Halferty developed several of the Freshmen 
into good runners, and the prospects are bright for next year. It takes time 
to produce a winner in any branch of sport, but given half a chance a roal 
coach will eventually deliver the goods._________________
BASKETBALL PRACTICE 
NOW WELL UNDER WAY
Collegiate Barber
418 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
We Do Shingle Bobbing. 
Hats Cleaned. Shoes Shined. 
DANIEL & CICERO 
Proprietors.
PLAID RUNNERS WIN LXINo9 LXCC VAXR9ERo
OVER WESTA1INSTER
Wonderful Work By Dykeman and Bright Bring 
One Point Victory
Captain Howard Dykeman and his 
band of harriers just nosed out those 
from Westminster by one point Sat
urday over the S'chenley Park course. 
The score was 27 to 27. Dykeman, 
followed by Bright, finished first in 
2S minutes, 54 seconds. This was the 
best race Bright has over run.
Rose, Wilkins, Maxwell and Wirtz, 
all of Westminster, finished after 
Bright in the order named.
The race was very close and hard 
fought. If any Westminster man had 
beaten the Carnegie runner ahead of 
him to the tape, the visitors would 
have won out. The weather was bet
ter than for any other meet this year.
This finishes the schedule of the 
cross country team, except for Howdy 
Dykeman, who is going to run in the 
intercollegiate races in New York the 
last of the month.
The finishing order was as follows:
Dykeman, Carnegie; Bright, Car
negie; Rose, Westminster; Wilkins, 
Westminster; Maxwell, Westminster; 
Wirtz, Westminster; Peck, Carnogie; 
De Jesus, Carnes'O2 Himes, Carnogie; 
McKelvey, Westminster; Ewing, Car
negie; Brown, Westminster; Lock
wood, Carnegie; Foller, Carnogie.
PLEBE HARRIERS TRIM 
PITT FRESHMEN, 29-36
EVERY TUES. AND THURS.
Although football season Is still in 
full swing, plans are now formulated 
to place one of the best baskotball 
teams in the history of Carnegie, on 
the floor this winter. Four weeks ago, 
Coach Bon Lubio issued a call for 
varsity candidates. A largo number 
of basket tossers, headed by Captain 
Midge Matter, responded to tlvo call, 
and since then have boon practicing 
diligently every Tuesday and Thurs
day evening.
Matter. Amos and Harris are the 
only members of last years squad to 
report to Coach Lubic so far. Of 
course, the football players, such as 
Mohrman, Mefort and Donohoe. who 
were on the squad last year, will not 
report until after the football season. 
This small number reporting from 
last years squad only goes to show 
that any good man has a wonderful 
chance to not only make the squad, 
but to earn for himself a regular 
berth on the team. Coach Lubic 
would like all the follows who ever 
played basketball to come out for tho 
team. Do this, not only for yourself, 
but for the good of Carnegie.
Tho freshman squad is also under 
the scrutinous eye of Coach Irwin. 
Some good men are practicing with 
the plebes. Harry Sichi, former 
Monossen High School star; Hobs, 
McGuire, Grosskloss and Woods are 
some of the most promising players. 
All plebes are urged to come out for 
the team and do something for their 
school.
INTEREST IN NOTRE 
DAME GAME HIGH
Tri-State Fans Will Seize 
Chance to See Famous 
FightingIrish
V. S. MOLLENAUER
TO HEAD ARTS' BALL
MENS STYLE SHOP
Connors & Conway
J FORBES STREET, OAKLAND
With the close of the football sea
son less than two weeks distant, and 
the cold weather approaching, the 
lure of basket-ball has come again. 
Many weeks will not pass before the 
loyal fans will be yelling and rooting 
for the basketball teams.
The varsity team has been practi
cing a few nights each week since the 
first part or uctoDor, the early prac
tice being mainly to get the men in 
condition who were not out for foot
ball. During the last few weeks much 
of the preliminary work, along the 
line of shooting, was taken up. Be
sides this many of the other little 
details have been worked over, and a 
good scrimmage is expected soon.
Ben Lubic, the varsity coach, who 
has been with us for two years and 
Is now starting his third year de
termined to have a winning team.
 Last years season being broken up 
several times .during the year on ac
count of epidemics, exams., etc., 
brings hopes to us that we will have 
a good season this year. Ben has been 
out with the boys two nights each 
week so far this season; steady or 
regular, practice will begin shortly 
after Thanksgiving vacation.
Captain Matter has been out regu
larly with the boys, assisting the coach 
in all the little details. Things have 
been running smoothly all along and 
much improvement has taken place 
in many of the players already in the 
short practices. Toots Aments, one 
of our best players in the first spmester of last years team is with us 
again, and has been out since the 
start getting in shape for the first 
game. Some of the other men that 
have been out to practice and are 
working hard for a place on the team 
are:. Lynch, Cjnrad, Glanz, Harris, 
Plummer, Forbes, Balir. The football 
men will be out in a couple of weeks.
The Slickest Coat on the Campus!
<$k3nidafi$hAd&nfc
No well dressed college man is 
without one. Its the original, correctslickcr and theres noth
ing as smart or sensible for 
rough weather and chilly days.
Made of famous yellow water
proof oiled fabric. Has all
round strap on collar and elas
tic at wrist-bands.
Clasp-closing style 
Button-closing style 
Stamp the correct name iny our memory, and buy no other.
The Standard Student is 
made only by the Standard 
OUed Clothing Co., N. Y. C 
Slip one on at
? ALL GOOD DEALERS
EDGEWOOD WILL HEAR
MENS MUSICAL CLUBS
(Continued From Page One.) I 
clubs of the vicinity. After the con
cert the school plans to give the boys 
a big time in the form of a dance, 
and things will hum for an evening.
Manager Lundquist has prepared 
the Eligibility List and the reports 
show that the Clubs are in exception
al standing. This is quite encourag
ing, for it is not too healthy to have 
an organization of this nature work 
together for half a season, and then 
go on the Scholastic Rocks. As a 
whole the men of the clubs are stu
dents, and in order to make the trips 
in the winter and spring they must 
continue to be students.
Wednesday evening, tomorrow, to 
be exact, at 7:30 in the Union, there 
will be the last rehearsal before the 
concert, and both clubs will >e there, 
so that the program ,may he rehearsed 
as it will be presented on Friday even 
ing. This plan lias been carried out 
year after year, and it has been found 
to be successful. Any member who 
does not attend this rehearsal, re
gardless of excuses will not be taken 
to Edgewood for the concert.
U. S. MARINES TO MEET
PLAID ON SATURDAY
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
will in a small way show some of choir 
strength. They defeated Catholic Un
iversity 33-0; beat Georgetown 0-0; 
took over Dickinson 13-0; added Fort 
Bonning to the list 39-0; and tied Van
derbilt 13-13; Last Saturday they de
feated the strong University of De
troit team 28-0. By way of compara
tive scores let us seo how they stand. | 
They played a tie game with Vander
bilt Vanderbilt defeated Goorgia 
Tech 3-0Georgia Tech defeatod Ponn ' 
Sti.ia 15-13Penn State boat Carnogie 
Tech 22-7. Draw your own conclusion. 
Comparative scores as a. rule do not 
mean anything for all the dopo Is con
tinually being upset. The Devil Dogs 
have a strong team, but they can be | 
defeated. Even Illinois, who boasted; 
of a team that was unbeatable, suffer
ed defeat at tho hands of Minnesota, 
a mediocre team that was not expect
ed to be good opposition.
Carnegie is again tho underdog, but 
even underdogs have their days and 
rise to great heights as was demon
strated in the game with Pitt. With 
tho same fight as they displayed then, 
the Tartan can create history and wo 
are all backing them to bring home 
the proverbial bacon.
From present indications based on 
the sale of tickets a record crowd 
will witness the game. Many of the 
Marines living in this district are 
coming out to cheer their team on 
to victory. The followers of Carnegie 
will be there to support their team 
as they always do. Since the Univerp!iy of Pittsburgh is not playing on 
that date, the patrons, of the sport will 
avail themselves of the opportunity 
to see the Skibos  in action. The 
Marines will bring a large delegation 
with them, including one band and 
possibly two. This will give our Kil
tie Band some competition, and will 
possibly develop into a musical duel 
such as will be remembered for some 
time to come. The Devil Dogs can
not be taken lightly; they promise a 
gruelling battle and will have to be 
reckoned with. There will be a great 
display of football and the spectators 
will be treated to plenty of excite
ment. There will also be sufficient 
music. The colorful Kilties and the 
Marine Band should in themselves be 
an attraction.
A game full of thrills, two famous 
bands vieing for honorswhat more 
could be desired?
REWARD WILL BE GIVEN TO
FINDER OF VALUABLE SCARF
A genuine Erracht Cameron scarf 
was lost last Friday somewhere bo 
tween the Graduate Manager's office 
and Arts school. A reward will be 
given to the person who will return 
this scarf to Miss Klea Brainard at 
the Graduate Managers office In 
room 102 in the new gymnasium 
building.
Carnegie added another Panthor 
pelt to tlioir string Saturday when tho 
Plebes defoated tho Pitt Freshmen 
on tho Schenley Park course, 29 to 3G. 
Roy, of Pitt, finished first In 15 min
utes, 30 2-5 seonds, followed in 7 2-5 
seconds by Crawford, tho first Car
negie runner.
This completes the season for tho 
Plebes, but Coach Ilalforty plans to 
glvo the men a little work each woolc 
in preparation for track in tho spring.
Tho men who scored woro: first, 
Roy, Pitt, 15:30 2-5; second, Crawford, 
Carnegie, 15-38; third, Adams, Pitt; 
Carnegie; sixth, Wilson. Pitt; sovfourtli, Hobo, Carnogie; fifth, Firs^h, 
ontli, Fry, Carnegie; eighth, Spousal* 
lor, Carnogie; ninth, Marsh, Pitt; 
tenth, ShalTor, Pitt. Other finishers 
do not count in tho team sooro.
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
though, since tho attomptod rejuvena
tion of our campus, thoro might ho a 
, shortage of grass for costumos.
1 It can bo seon, thoroforo, that tho 
I committees in charge havo tlioir 
hands full, but with Mollcnauor at the 
head, things promise to dovolop quito 
rapidly and a comploto success seems 
assured.
WELCOME TO ALL 
THE OLD AND 
NEW FELLOWS 
AT TECH
Tech Barber 
Shop
FORBES near CRAIG
LAST FOOTBALL DANCE
NEXT SATURDAY NIGHT
The last football dance of tho cur
rent yoar will bo hold at l.ho Union 
this coming Saturday night, at 9:00.
Tho Techson orchostra will fur
nish tho music and a big crowd Is oxpectod As an addod feature for tho 
final soason, Ohio Nowman, captain 
of tho football team, and erstwhile 
draniat will sing a fow of Ills well 
known and justly famous songs. When 
ever Ohio gets up and starts In to 
sing the crowd knows that it Is In 
for somo raro ontortainmont.
The assesmont will bo tho samo aa 
usual, $1.25 with ono registration card 
nooded for each couplo. It Is hoped 
that tho students will respond to this 
appeal and make this dance tho most 
peppy of tho soason. Aside from tho 
entertainment, thoso dances aro run 
for the benefit of the Athlolic Associ
ation and it noods the money. All 
the money you pay in to thoso dances 
goes to help defray tho expenses of 
the football team and Incldently to 
keep down tho activities fee for next 
year.
This is a Carnegie function as well 
as is the Junior Prom and other more | 
pretentious affairs, and every Car
negie student is asked to come. In1 
Its way. it will be supporting the foot-1 
ball team the same as cheering at tho 
game. The committee asks all stu
dents to assist in closing the football 
dance season at the final dance next 
Saturday.
Remember, Union, 9 o'clock, $1.25.
Smiles 
& back, at
jrou!
STUDENTS FROM JOHNSTOWN 
INVITED TO JOIN PITT CONFAB
Invest Your Snvlngu In Bondo
For personal Inventmont thoro aro 
fow thlngn Unit ottor mi many n<lvuntajcuii n*i Rood bond. Safety, 
incoino mitt marketability aro tho 
fuatorn that inoamiro InvoHtmonfc 
vuluun and In tho LO reopootu yood 
bondo ar rutad high.
Invent your money In bond. 
Whether you can afford ono or 
many, you will And hero IntalllKOiit 
intercut In your roqulromontu and 
a incoro deiiiro to prvido invoiiLmentii that will lit your particular needs.
And remember, you can buy good 
lionda in denomination an low an $100.
Mellon National Bank
Pittsburgh, Pa.
While tho Notre Dame game is yet 
two weeks away, tho interest has 
already reached such a high point 
that wo cannot too strongly urge the 
students and alumni who want re
served seats to send in their, appli
cation at once. If they delay too long, 
they are liable to bo loft out iu. the 
cold; that is. they will not get in on. 
the best soats. Reservations have, 
long been coming into tho Graduate, 
Managers Office by the hundreds, and 
continue to pour in daily.
The great record of tho Fighting 
Irish this year has doubtloss arounsed 
this unusual Interest. An Indication' 
of how great this interest is can bo 
judged from the fact that sporting: 
writers from practically every state 
in tho northern section oast of the 
Mississippi river havo sent in re
quests for tickets. This game will bo 
ono of the fow great contests on that 
day, and will bo a fitting wind-up to  
a most glorious football season. Es
pecially in Western Pennsylvania, 
Ohio and West Virginia in this in
terest at high pitch. Carnegie Is 
known to havo a team that will match 
the Irish in weight, tho stylo of play, 
of each team will bo very much alike; 
both are well coached; and both are 
possessed of groat fighting spirit. 
While we would not bo so rash as to 
predict a victory for tho Tartans over 
their famed rivals, thoro can be no 
doubt that Carneglo will put up a 
hard battlo, one worth going a long 
way to soe. This, coupled with tho 
uncertainty in football and tho upsotting of dopo in every section of the 
country this your, points to a spec
tacular battlo.
All that Is needed to nuxko it a per. 
feet day is suitable weather. Under 
clear skies and a dry field tho "Four 
Horsemen" of Notre Dame, Crowloy, 
Miller, Laydon and Stuhldrohor, aro, 
at their best. And ovoryono knows 
what that "best means. No toam In 
the country has been able to stop 
them. Can Carnegie do it?
Anothor reason why so many will 
make a apodal efiort to 1,r this game 
In Pittsburgh this yoar Is that Notro. 
Dame will not return boro In 1925. 
Tho contract with tho Skibos calls for 
the game next season to he played in 
South Bond.
Again wo advise tho students and 
alumni who want reserved soats  
OHJT IN YOUR ItliJHlflRVATlONH AT 
ONClfl!
Professor In SdolpIfoR'y: Why, my
young folks, do you supp'oso young 
girls leave home?
Bright H (ma den t.: To find their 
mothers, I think, sir. (Head of the 
class, please,)
mmmummmmmmmmtmmmm
THE
HOTEL SCHENLEY
Announomi a norloo of eight Sat
urday Evening Supper Danoeo 
In tho Rooo Room at 9 oclock,
COVER CHARGE $1.25
Celebrated Moyer Davon 
Orchestra.
Call Schenloy 0205 
for Table Reservations.
; 
Y.WCA ME.BRSHSI.P D
j. Fftl Avenue Boot 51oj> X
near illtli Street, New York *t*
Permanent Exhibit Shop 
JENKINS ARCADE 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
ADVERTISE AND GET HESULT8
All students from Johnstown, Pa., 
attending Carnegie Tech are invited, 
to attend a meeting of the Pitt-.Tohnstown Club to be held at the Pitt "Y 
Hut on Thackery street at 7:30 p. m. 
Wednesday. Matters of great import 
to Johnstown members of both Car
negie and Pitt will be discussed. Make 
! it a point to be there. | |
, -----------------------------------
'INITIAL MEETING OF MID! WESTERS WILL BE ON NOV. 23
Dont Be An Antique
Some people look like an ola relic in formal clothes that 
were tailored years ago. Let us Rent you one of our New 
Models. Youll see the difference.
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
Whittington Dress Suit Co.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smithfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:305:30
The Mid West Association will hold :*-<
WE DONT BLAME HIM
Kind Lady: "What is your name
little boy?
Boy: "Joshua Shadrach Lemuel
LoLs.
Kind Lady: "Well, well, and who
gave you that name?
Boy: "I dunno yet, but Ill find
out some day.
a short, important business meeting 
at 4 p. m., on Sunday, November 23, 
in Room 124-A, Industries. AHstu
dents whose homes are West or 
North of Ohio are eligible for mem
bership, and are requested to be presI ent. Plans for tho annual dinner 
dance will be made. Come out, and 
meet the rest of tho Westerners.
Mouthful
Dixon: Charity begins at home.
Bergen: Yes, Indeod. Home of
these Christian women working so 
hard to get clothes on cannibals 
should practice on their daughters.
FRESHMAN'S LAMENTATION
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE
At Sheridan SquareEast Liberty
When I was a child, I spake as a 
child, I felt as a child, I thought as 
a child); now that T am become a 
man I do the same thing.COLLEGE INN
Meal Tickets for Counter and Tables
ADVERTI8E AND GET RESULTS t

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE) FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. NOVEMBER 18, 1924
ALUMNI PAGE&
KDKA TO BROADCAST LAST TWO GAMES
Engineer Runs Tests 
And Writes Articles
Gibbs Writes Article For 
Technical Journal
Another Carnegie Alumnus is mak
ing a name for himself. This time it 
is Charles W. Gibbs, a former Pitts
burgh lad. Mr. Gibbs graduated with 
the class of 1915 of the College of 
Engineering. He specialized in me
chanical engineering.
While in college, Mr. Gibbs dis
tinguished himself by receiving the 
Second Award m a student engineer
ing competition, conducted under the 
auspices of the Engineering Society of 
Western Pennsylvania, in the year 
1913-14. During his senior year he 
was treasurer of the Carnegie branch 
of the American Society of Mechani
cal Engineers. He was also a mem
ber of the Senior Ball Committee.
Upon graduation he became af
filiated with the Fuel Testing Station
M. M. ALUMNAE ACTIVE 
TWO THEATRE SHOWS
of the Philadelphia Navy Yard, with 
whom he stayed until 1922, when he | 
accepted a position as engineer of 
tests for the Ingersoll-Rand Company 
of New YorLL
Mr. Gibbs, who is well trained in 
his line of work, has also done some 
individual research work. He has 
written some articles on this work, 
one of which will appear in the next 
' issue of The Carnegie Technical 
Journal.
A theater party will be held by the 
Alumuae of Margaret Morrison Col
lege this afternon at the Little Thea
ter. "The Critic, by Richard Brindsley Sheridan, will be presented by the 
Department of Drama for this oc
casion. Miss Lenore Read is chair
man of the committee in charge. The 
other members of the committee are 
Miss Mildred Knapp, Mrs. C. A. Bay
ard, Miss Raechel Magill, Mrs. F. W. 
Wentworth and Mrs. George Conner.
This is the first of a series of social 
events, which have been arranged by 
the Alumnae body for the coming 
winter. The next event is another 
theater party at one of the Pittsburgh 
theaters, and will take place about 
one month from now.
The organization work in the 
Alumnae body has progressed very 
much in the last year, and the present 
date, every Alumnae member in Pitts
burgh and the vicinity is registered 
and is taking an active part in the dif
ferent functions of that body.
The play itself is a comedy, satizizing the rather crude make-sliifts of 
the stage in the latter part of the 
Eighteenth Century. Costumes, man
ners and customs have been faith
fully reproduced and the cast care
fully selected for their respective 
roles. Ben Iden Payne, head of the 
School of Drama, is directing the pro
duction.
Being the first gathering this year 
of these Carnegie graduates, nothing 
has been left undone to make the af
fair a complete success.
MECHANICAL GRAD 
ON TRUSTEE COMM.
Mr. Hobbs Came to Carnegie 
From U. of Fla.Active 
in School Work
The Maroon and Gold recently 
published this anecdote about that 
fine old American wit, Mark Twain: 
There was a man living near Mark i 
Twain who had a very remarkable | 
collection of books. One day Mark 
Twain went over to this man's | 
house and asked to borrow one or 
two books to read. The man was 
very glad to lend him any that he 
wished, but he requested that the 
'books be read there in order that 
none be lost. Several days later 
the man sent a servant over to bor
row Mark Twains lawn mower. 
Twain said: It is p.erf-ectly all
Tightgo ahead and use it all you 
like, but I never allow it out of my 
yard.
TUXEDO AND FULL DRESS 
SUITS TO HIRE 
For All Occasions.
All new and up to date.
ED SCHWERIN 
MEN TAILOR 
606 State Theater Building 
335 Fifth Avenue, Pitsburgh, Pa.
Dr. Lemuel H. Murlin, who has been 
the president of Boston College for 
the past 12 years, has resigned this 
post to assume the presidency of his 
Alma Mater, DePauw University. Dr. 
Murlins resignation has been accept
ed by the College Trustees, and he 
will probably take up his duties at 
DePauw at the beginning of the next 
term. During the time that Dr. Mur
lin has been at Boston the registra
tion in the college has been raised 
from 1,347 to 10,515.
you,Professor: "As a success
have been a failure.
Student: Yes; but as a failure 
Ive been a suiocessAnswers,
London.
Damon
What nre you doing, Pytb 
writing Her another letter?"
Pythias
"Nonot this time. Something 
more to the point, as one would 
sny. Im writing the Pater to 
send me a dozen Eldorado pencils. 
They aro all sold out down at 
the Htore."
ElbO
THEONLY
9,4NCCao gNoo 
iornaC 1rw
AFFELDER and SMITH
1717 MURRAY AVENUE 
Hazel 5149 Near Forbes
LEARN TO DANCE
at the
Jacques School of Dancing 
Craig and Forbes Streets 
Beginners Monday and Friday 
evenings. Advanced Thursday and 
Saturday evenings. Private lessons 
by appointment.
This is a School
Not a public dance hall.
17 tadail dealer*
WOULD YOU
say anything to 
square it
lech Fioiuer Sho
4527 FORBES ST. near cfi ^B.W.HAAS ^PHONE SCHE'
V^ptTTSBURGHW /L9~,3
STUDENTS!
We Specialize In 
STUDENTS
DRAWING
OUTFITS
at special prices. 
Also in 
Cameras, Filins, Etc.
Developing and 
Printing.
(Ask foi: our free 
calendar.)
Of particular interest to the older 
members of the Alumni is the ap
pointment of Mr. J. C. Hobbs to the 
Committee of Trustees of the Car
negie Institute of Technology. Mr. 
Hobbs, whose selection was an
nounced in last weeks Tartan, is a 
member of the class of 1910, having 
received a diploma in mechanical en
gineering in that year. He was 
awarded his Bachelor of Science de
gree in 1913, and the degree of Me
chanical Engineer two years later.
Upon entering Carnegie from the 
University of Florida, Mr. Hobbs be
came quite active in campus activi
ties. He was a member of the Woodlawn Club and of the varsity football 
squad of 1909.
Since leaving school, after obtain
ing his professional degree in 1915, he 
has not allowed his interest in Car
negie affairs to lag, and has become 
one of its more prominent alumni.
After his graduation, Mr. Hobbs be
came connected with the Duquesne 
Light Company, with which company 
he remained until the early fall of 
this year. 1-Ie is now associated with 
the Diamond Alkali Company of Painsville, Ohio, holding an executive posi
tion.
Mr. Hobbs name, along with those 
of Mr. Charles M. Schwab, Mr. Otto 
Kahn and Mr. E. M. Herr, have been 
added to the Trustees Committee at 
a meeting held about three weeks ago.
News Reel Pictures 
Will Also Be Taken
WILL OBSERVE CARNEGIE
DAY THIS FRIDAY
B. K. ELLIOTT CO.
OPTICIANS
Schenley Apartments 
4010 FIFTH AVENUE
Woodlawn Pharmacy
5200 Forbes Street, Cor. Woodlawn
Nearest Drug Store to Tech School
Complete Up-to-Date Drug Store
(Continued From Page One) 
is interesting to note that Mr. Schwab 
gave the main address at the first Car
negie Day exercises, way back in 1913.
No classes will be held between 
10:20 a. m. and 1:30 p. m. on this day. 
The entire personnel of the school 
will line up at 10:30, for a proces
sion to the Carnegie Music Hall, 
where the exercises will begin at 
11:00 a. m.
The student marshals for the pro
cession will be: Don Gardner,
Science; M. D. Kallfel/., Industries; O. 
B. Newman, Arts; Margaret Taylor, 
Arts; Hoffer Sload, Engineering and 
Industries Plebes; Mary Stuempfle, 
Margaret Morrison.
As all who are interested in the wel
fare of Carnegie will realize, this ceromony in respectful memory to our 
founder deserves the support of every 
loyal backer of the school. No one 
will regret his participation lii this, 
one of the most beautiful and uplift
ing traditions of Carnegie.
The following order of march 
will be observed:
1Band.
2R! O. T. C. and Colors.
3Faculty.
4Students, in the order 
grouped below.
FORMATION PLAN FOR FAIR 
WEATHER 
Each group in column of fours.
Band and R. O. T. C., on Wood
lawn avenue, between Park and 
Industries Building.
M. M. C. C. Students, on side
walk with front opposite Senior 
Fence.
Arts Women, on north walk, 
front of Arts Building.
All Seniors, men, on south 
walk, main campus.
All Juniors, men, on Cut with 
front at top of plank walk to 
Science Building.
All Sophomores, men, on 
south walk, front of Arts Build
ing.
All Freshmen, men, in the 
road between Langley Labora
tory and Arts Building.
FORMATION PLAN IN CASE 
OF RAIN
Line will proceed out basement
entrance, Industries Building.
Band and R. O. T. C., base
ment corridor, Industries Build
ing, with Band at basement en
trance.
M. M. C. C. Students will form 
in first floor corridor, Industries 
Building, with front at main en
trance.
Arts Women, in first floor cor
ridor, Industries Building, with 
front at Printing Shop.
Seniors, men, second floor cor
ridor, Industries Building, with 
front at lower end of building.
Juniors, men, second floor cor
ridor, Industries Building, with 
front at Pattern Shop.
Sophomores, men, second floor 
corridor, Industries Building, 
with front at Military Depart
ment.
Freshmen, men, in Langley 
Laboratory, column of fours.
Alumni Can Hear and See 
Last Two Home Games
It has been arranged with The 
Pittsburgh Post and Sun. Pittsburgh 
daily newspapers, whereby the Carnegie-Quautico Marine and the Carnegie-Notre Dame games will be re
layed, play by play, to the Westinghouse Electric & Manufacturing Com
pany at East Pittsburgh, which firm 
will broadcast them throughout their 
popular broadcasting station, KDKA. 
Thus, all Carnegie supporters and the 
general public as well who are located 
within 400 miles of Pittsburgh at the 
time of the games will be able to fol
low the fortunes of the teams, almost 
as closely as' those in actual attend
ance.
For the benefit of Carnegie Clans 
over the country, moving pictures of 
both games will be taken and joined 
into one reel. The film can be ob
tained gratis through the Alumni As
sociation, if the Clans will be re
sponsible for it while in their pos
session. This is the first time in the 
history of the school that this service 
has been offered, and it is expected 
that the different Clans will take ad
vantage of it. If it works out satis
factorily, it may be extended to cover 
all Carnegie important gamos and 
events.
The Quantico Marine game will, 
start at 2:30 p. in., and the Notre 
Dame game at 2 p. m. The broad
casting should commence shortly 
after the games get under way. The 
Tartans should experience no great 
difficulty in defeating the former 
eleven, as our men are genorally con
ceded as being a brainier and faster 
aggregation than their huskier op
ponents. As for the latter gamo, wo 
can safely predict on which side of 
the ledger it will be  recordod. The 
team which first defeats the IToosler 
band will acquire national fame and 
prominence., w Coaches from all over 
the country have scouted Notre Dame 
is all her games and adoptod her stylo 
of play. She Is easily rated tho 
strongest team in the country, be
cause of her great record of victories 
ovor high-class opponents. Her 
schedule Is much tougher than those 
of the few remaining undefeated 
teams in tho country. The Tartan 
gridders will acquit themselves with 
glory if they can hold Notre Dames 
mighty eleven to a low score.
At all events, the broadcasting of 
each play of both games will inaugu
rate a pleasing feature, which wo hope 
will be continued in tho future, From 
the activity displayed by Carnegio 
Clans recently tho news-picturos of 
tho games soem destined to ho a 
hearty success. These two features 
will, at least, servo to bind closer the 
relations oxlsting between the Alumni 
and the present student body of Car
negie.
HALLOWEEN PARTY 
A REAL SUCCESS
Phila. Clan Have Big Time 
With Many PresentRaces 
and Games
Alumni Dinner Will 
Be At Carnegie Inn
The Old Time Get-Together 
For Faculty Grads
A committee oj' Faculty and Alumni 
members is at work making final ar
rangements for the Get-together Din
ner to be held Saturday, December 13, 
1924, at 7 p. m., in the Carnegie Inn 
(Old Field House) on Woodlawn ave
nue.
As the capacity is limited, reserva
tions must be made by mail. Final 
notice will be mailed soon and the 
first 200 alumni reservations returned 
with checks will close the dinner list.
This is to be a real old-time party, 
where you can meet your faculty 
friends and talk over old times. Op
portunity will also be made for alumni 
to offer suggestions for the better
ment of tiie Carnegie Engineering 
Courses and the class of students 
drawn to Carnegie for engineering.
Each alumnus in the Pittsburgh dis
trict, especially the old timers, should 
reserve the 13th, and be on hand for 
the party, which will be the first of 
several to be held this school year.
THE TORCH
The Hero: Theyve got me tied to 
the tree, darling, but Im confident 
that Im going to get loose.
The Heroine: JiAb, dear. Then you 
might say that you're bound and de
termined.Ohio Sun Dial.
YOU dont need trig, to kno that nine dollars from fourteen le.'iva just the price ofOh 
wel, you spend it but not on 
shoes. BecauzJohnWards nine dollar oxfords beat any four
teen dollar jncs you ever saw.
On Display By
MR. D. T. KIRKPATRICK 
AT SKIBO INN 
NOVEMBER 21
u.verv5 .oko esMCORrORATID
StoriM In Nerv York, Brooklyn, Newark 
and Philadelphia Addres* for Mail 
Orders, 121 Duane St., New York City
Of all the Clan parties held in Phila
delphia, this was the best. That was 
the sentiments of all the clansmen 
and guests who attended tho party 
last Saturday evening, November S, at 
tho secretary's country homo 011 
Monument road, Bala. The secrotary 
writes the. success of the party was to 
the co-operation of the various mem
bers of the committees and to the 
large attendance of clansmen. All to 
the Glory of Carnegie.
The party was a post-Halloween 
party, with elaborate and colorful 
decorations appropriate to the season. 
The games of a Ilalloweon nature 
were enjoyed by all, even to the duck
ing for apples in a tub of water, and 
the pecan race by the Nosey entrants 
in the race, yes, the girls pushed the 
pecans with their noses, too. The 
feature of the evening was the French 
Service by the noted French Cliof, M. 
Andre, and his petito assistant, 
Madamoiselle Suzah. Covers were 
laid for 25 clansmen, which was not 
sufficient to accommodate the splen
did turnout. The. Maggie Murphs 
would do well to have this French 
Chef to teach them! how to bake 
Pumpkin Pies and Muffins, and his 
French Drip Coffee would mako any
one lose sleep.
The following attended tho party: 
President P. Emmel, Vico President 
Exline and wife; Entertainment Com
mittee, Jack Ferguson and wife, Dor
othea Steinmacher, J. Bailey, R. M. 
Ward, Walter Millor and wifo, M. T. 
Britton and wife, M. Orr, M. Smith, H. 
Macrum, K. I-Iayes, L. Dougherty, M. 
Skelton, M. Kr.ledol, Dr. Styrl, C. Lea, 
K. Lockwood, B. Dlnsmoro, 10. S. 
Roberts, Secretary J. S. Clicking.
Suggestion was made that at. tho 
next mooting discussion would bo in 
order t.o have the Carnegie Toeli 
Musical Clubs to give a concert In tho 
Spring of 1925. It would bo well If 
the Harrisburg and other Hastorn 
Clans would arrange to have tho clubs 
give a concert. In thoir rospootlvo lo
calities. Give tho dubs an Eastorn 
tour and show tho East that Carnegio 
is The Collogo. All for tho Glory of 
Carnogio.
OPENING FOR GRADS 
IN NAVAL ENG. WORK
Tho Military Department, desire to 
call tho attention of those engineering 
graduatos, who are between 22 and 30 
years of ago, and who liavo had not 
less than 17 months practical profes
sional cxporlonco subsequent to 
graduation, the opportunity now pre
sented for appointment as a lieuten
ant, junior grade, Unltod Statos Navy.
An examination will bo hold In 
Washington, Now York, Chicago, 
Mare Island, California, tho first part 
of the coming yoar for appointment 
as Assistant Civil Engineer, Sorps of 
Civil Engineers, U. S. Navy. Tho pre
liminary examination as to general 
fitness, based 011 the collegiate record, 
testimonials, references, and profes
sional experience, will bo dotormined 
from papers and othor information 
which must be submitted to the ex
amining board not later than January 
1, 1025.
The Corps of Civil Engineers, U. S. 
Navy, is a splendid body of men. 
Their work offers a broad range of 
professional accomplishment and use
fulness. Officers of this corps aro 
normally charged with the shore es
tablishment of the Navy,, but may be 
sent anywhere. The entering pay is 
$2,000 per year, with rental and sub' 
sistence allowances .ranging from 
about $700 to $1,150 a year. There are 
now 54 vacancies in the grade.
Further Information can be obtain
ed from the P. M. S. & T., Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, or by writing 
directly to the Examining Board, 
Bureau of Yards and Docks, U. S. N., 
Washington, D. C.
We were strolling on the campus 
the other day and heard a Plebe 
make the following statement:
These here Sophomores sure do 
believe in the adage, 'spare the pad
dle and ruin the plebe, only in our 
case we are ruined either way. Since 
the prayer we made for rain the Mag
gie Murphs across from the dormi
tory have all begged that we be al
lowed to .sing, but really I dont think 
we have enough talent.
"There was a real exciting time tho 
other night when the Maggie Murphs 
had a Plebe parade around to the dif
ferent dormitories and sang songs, A 
good time was had by all present ex
cept the Plebes, who as usual got all 
that was coming to them, and some 
of them, a share In somebody else's 
pie.
"When the 9ophomorns call a trial 
I wish that I had decided not to go 
to college hut had gone to work on 
the farm, When I had to vyator tho 
lamp posts and watch to see If any 
roots sprouted and then, when none 
sprang into existence had to stand on 
the walk and lecture on "What Caused 
the Failure of My .Experiment in Hor
ticulture;' I felt as though everyone 
was laughing at me, but maybe some
one told a joke."
I TELESCOPE j
LISTEN IN-KDKA WILL TELL 
THE STORY
REMEBER ITS CARNEGIE, NOT 
TECHI
Carnogio Techthere, lie said it 
againdoesnt want to bo known as 
Carnegio Tech. She wants to be plain 
Carnegie, if you please, pointing out 
that Westingliouse Tech, Harrisburg 
Tech and any other school of tho 
kind has just as much right to tho 
Tech as Carnegie.
To be distinctive, therefore, the 
Te we mean the Plaid wants to be 
just "Carnegie. Of course, Carnogio 
means the Institute of technology 
it doesnt'mean the town on the Pan
handle railroad made famous by Hans 
Wagner, or the library 011 Forbes 
street made famous by the Laird of 
Skibo Castle.
A Pittsburgh paper which has been 
complying with tho wishes of Car
negie followers in the elimination of 
the very common and much usod 
word Tech is perfectly within its 
rights when it criticized tho motorists 
and bummers who carried banners 
and signs bearing the outlawed worn 
011 their way to State. Lots begin 
house cleaning at homo may bo a 
good motto to follow.
Several amusing and interesting 
reports have come in from the various 
gentlemen hikers 011 the State trip. 
Every one, it seems, who started ar
rived In good order. Some of eourso 
made better time than others but not 
any had to walk any groat distance. 
They all seemed well pleased with 
tho kindness shown thorn along tho 
way. One pair reports get ting to State 
in two lifts, another in four. Another 
pair report that they woro brought 
half way back from State and thon 
woro put up for tho night by their 
benefactor. Many others roport spe
cial favors being shown thorn by kind
ly motorists but the prize, It sooms, 
should go to tho pair who were trudg
ing along after dark and woro picked 
up by an 03 Pitt graduate who took 
them as far as his destination and 
then prosen ted them with railroad 
tickets to Pittsburgh. Thin spoola! 
kindness from a graduate of our neigh
boring school eortalnly dosorvos and 
gets our slncoro appreciation.
Williard in Rivals
At Nixon Theatre
Graduated in 1923Active in 
School Affairs
The many friends of John Williard, 
formerly a student in the Department 
of Drama, will be pleased to note that 
he Is now a mombor of the cast of 
The Rivals, that entertaining com
edy produced at tho Nixon Theater 
last week. Mr. Williard, who receivod 
a Bachelor of Arts degree in Drama, 
in 1923, is the understudy for tho 
gentleman taking part in the revival 
,of Sheridans play.
Williard, whose homo is in Pitts
burgh, entered the School of Science 
from Peabody High School in 1918. 
At the end of his plebe year, however, 
lie decided to study drama, and shift
ed to the Arts School, from which ho 
graduated two years ago.
While in school ho won tho Guild 
Players Scholarship, tho Drama Art 
Society Scholarship and the Richard 
Mansfield Scholarship.
1-Ie was a member of The Tartan 
and Puppet staffs, of the Musical 
Clubs and was president of tho 
Drama Department. In his junior 
year he served on the Campus Woelc 
Committee. He is a member of tho 
Delta Upsilon fraternity.
Previous to his becoming associated 
with tho company of The Rivals 
Mr. Willard played In The Bat.
ARCHITECTS WORK IS 
REVIEWED IN I.C. OF A.E.
Sho: "Ill bot youi a box of choco
late to a hundred clrgarottos that 
Ill never marry.
Ho: "Ill take you!
Sho: "Will you, really? Then I
wont bot, after all! Answers, Lon
don.
SEE MARTIN
FOR GOOD THINGS TO EAT 
CORNER FORBES AND CRAiG 
M. PA8QUINILLI
Herbert Tross, who was graduatod 
froni tho two-yoar courso in Archltocturo last year, was roprosontod by 
a reproduction of bis pro.loct A 
Public Library, In tho rocont Issue of 
tho ProceodlngH of th International 
Congros on Arehltoctural lOducatlon 
liold In London, In 192*1,
Mr: Tross won First Modal for tlio 
projoot, in a judgmont provlously 
ronderod by th Beaux Arta Instituto 
of Design In Now York. Tho worlc 
was lator placod on oxhlbltlon at tho 
International Congros hold In Lon
don last summor and was solocted Tor 
roproductlon In th puhllshed pro* 
eoodlng a a roprosont.ul.lvo oxamplo 
of st.udont; worlc Troni Carnoglo Tech.
Telephone Sohcnley 0B70-J 
Approved Marinollo Shop 
Marcel WavingManicuring 
Shampooing, Facial and Scalp 
T rcatmcntii.
314 FORBES BLDG. Oakland 
MARIE A. GARRETT
Craig Restaurant
Tho place whoro all tho follows 
EAT
412 CRAIG STREET
Ye Old Schenley 
Lunch
Tho place whoro /ill good fel
low moot and onjoy a good 
meal.
Special 3G0 plate dinner, In
cluding dcsHort,
FORBES ABOVE CRAIG
College 
Students 
demand 
the Best
ctu why most of them choose
Remington Portable
Six points of superiority:
Durability and Reliability 
Compactness and Portability 
Four-Row Standard Keyboard 
Ease of Operation 
Beautiful WorkAlways 
Universal Service
Price, complete with case, $60. Easy payment 
terms if desired.
Come in and see the Remington Portablethe 
recognized leaderin sales and popularity.
CHESTER V. BUTLER 
Care Carnegie Tech Poet Office 
J. A. DOUGHERTY 
Caro Carnegie Tcch Post Office or 
254 Bcllcfield Avenue 
REMINGTON TYPEWRITER COMPANY 
102 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa
