THE TARTN
Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 September 1990
O.A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager
Gimme a T1
Carnegie Mellon cheerleaders Shauna Groveli, Melissa Kingman, Crystal Matthews, Toni Tunstall, Paula Batiste, 
and Jennifer Stern lead the crowd In cheering the Tartans to a 41-0 victory in the newly christened Gesllng 
Stadium. Approximately 5,135 people attended the season opener, which featured a halftime appearance by 
Carnegie Mellon President Robert Mehrabian and a ceremonial presentation of a framed photo of the stadium 
to Its benefactor, William Gesllng. Coverage of the game begins on page 13; coverage of the ceremonies begins 
on page 11.
Senate reclaims $12,000 from fall organizations
By DAVID LADEKTartan Assistant News Editor
According to Student Senate Chair 
Chris Neighbor, Senate may have reaped 
a windfall of as much as $12,000 from 
unused funds from fall budget organiza
tions.
We may have found a surplus of 
$12,000, said Neighbor. Thats a very 
rough figure, but a possibility. 
Assistant Dean of Student Affairs Anne
Witchner was cautiously optimistic. Its 
very possible that well have money left 
over, she said.
While preparing this falls budgets, 
Neighbor found that only four groups 
exceeded their budget allocations last 
year. In fact, most groups spent under 
the amount they had been allocated.
Our fiscal policy says that any money 
not spent by the organizations goes back 
into the general fund account for the 
next semester and special allocations,
said Neighbor.
Usually, the accounting department 
does the bookkeeping for the Activities 
Fee, but the figures havent come in yet, 
because theyre still adding the student 
activity fees in, said Neighbor.
Both Neighbor and Witchner were 
cautious, though.
We still have to do the spring budgets, 
and some of them are over for sure, said 
Neighbor. What that means is that this 
number is still very preliminary; I dont
know for sure. That may eat into the 
$12,000 figure.
Witchner agreed. Spring Carnival was 
over budget last year, and I believe Buggy 
was, too, she said. Im sure that some 
spring groups were under, too, so well 
have to wait and see. We should have 
credits to the good, but probably not 
$12,000 worth. It all hinges on the spring 
budgets.
Neighbor said that any money that is 
found after all the figures are in will be
welcome. Weve already had groups ask 
us for special allocations, he said.
Weve got to be careful to have money 
for emergencies and special things, said 
Witchner. For example, if something 
broke that was vital to an organizations 
functioning, there would be money tohelp fix it.
For now, were hoping, said Neighbor. 
If we can find that much money, great, 
but were not counting on it. Its just wait 
and see.
Are you addicted to the 
miracle of plastic?See page 9.
The Carnegie Mellon football 
team rolls over the University of 
Chicago, 41-0, in their home 
opener.See page 13.
a a  The tournee of animationIliSSdG makes its 22nd appearance in
Classifieds.............15 PittsburSh-Comics................L6 See page L9.
.............Six Broadway shows highForum ..............  light the 1990-91 season at the
c_ , ................. Benedum Center and HeinzbP>ts................12 H ,,
University Calendar......14VoxPopuli.............14 See page L9.
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Sr. Photographer
This bagpiper performs at the 
celebration of the first 
anniversary of the opening of 
the Allegheny Brewery. 
Boilermaker 5, a band 
composed of all CMU graduates, 
also performed at the festivities. 
See page L2.
Students react to Gulf crisis
By RHONDA STRUMINGERTartan Assistant News Editor
While most Carnegie Mellon 
students remotely observed the 
August 2 Iraqi invasion of Kuwait 
through paper and television re
ports, freshman Karim Hussein 
and sophomore Yadur Kapur ex
perienced the threat first-hand. 
Their homes are merely miles 
away.
Hussein, who was living in Cairo 
at the time of the invasion, said 
that everyone was appalled and 
listened to the radio a lot. As well, 
many Kuwaitis settled in Cairo. 
People in Cairo offered houses for 
them to live in and many decided 
just, to live there.
Our future is unsure now in Cairo.
C Karim Hussein, 
CMU freshman
Kapur stated that the atmo
sphere in the United Arab Emir
ates was a little tense but basi
cally all right. There was really 
nothing to worry about since the 
UAE is pretty safe.
Kapur said that many people 
did go home, though. Most of the 
people in the United Arab Emir
ates are not Arabs; theyre almost 
all foreigners from Europe, Ja
pan, and elsewhere. Further,
many Kuwaitis were migrating , 
to the UAE and now many of the: 
people who previously left are 
trying to come back. There is a lot 
of money there and there are no 
taxes.... It is like an oasis in the. 
desert.
Although Hussein himself was ; 
not personally affected by the in-: 
vasion, he was concerned for his 
mother, who had traveled to KuPlease see STUDENTS, page 5
Volume 85, Issue 3
Pledge night, 
Vom Kippur clash
By DAVID LADEKTartan Assistant News Editor
Through what Inter-Fraternity Council 
Rush Chair August Moret describes as an 
oversight, Jewish fraternity brothers and 
pledges this year will have to choose between 
Attending pledge night ceremonies and at
tending services for Yom Kippur.
Yom Kippur, which falls this year on Fri
day, September 28, is a day of atonement, 
the most important day of the year for the 
Jewish religion. From sundown on the 28th 
to sundown on the 29th, followers of Juda
ism fast and pray.i. This is the highest holy day for us, said
We just werent 
thinking."
C August Moret, IFC 
Rush Chair
Evan Indianer, president of the Jewish fra
ternity Alpha Epsilon Pi. We couldnt have 
a party on Friday night.
The situation has been remedied through 
amendments to the IFC bylaws which del
egate to the Rush Chair the responsibility 
Please see PLEDGES, page 5
University launches 
recycling program
By RACHEL HAASWartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon has insti
tuted a vigorous campuside recycling program in 
irder to comply with Penn
sylvania Act 101, which re
quires all Pennsylvania 
businesses and institutions 
to recycle office paper, card
board, aluminum cans, and 
: leaf waste.
Not all components of the 
CMU recycling program, 
however, will begin on Sep
tember 26, the deadline 
specified by the Act, accord
ing to Environmental Health 
Specialist Rich Beckmann.
According to Beckmann, 
because compliance to Act 
101 by September 26 is a 
statewide effort, recycling 
equipment is selling quickly 
 and all at once.
Delivery time for most 
equipment right now is six to 
eight weeks, said 
Beckmann.
So the program will be 
phased in gradually, as 
more equipment  such as 
additional recycling bins, 
dumpsters, and transport 
devicesbecomes available.
Implementation of the new 
program is largely due to the 
Please see RECYCLING, page 4
CMU AIDS task force 
recommends policy
By RICH ROBINSONTartan Staffwriter
A university policy for dealing with AIDS 
and HIV related issues will come before the 
F acuity Senate later this semester. The policy 
is designed to give the university a standard 
guideline in dealing with AIDS-related is
sues. Policies such as this one are allready in 
:effect at major universities around the nation.
We submitted the policy in May, said 
Anita Barkin, Director of Health Services, 
who chaired the AIDS task force that drew 
up the proposal. I talked to Dean Murphy 
;about three weeks ago, and he said it was on 
the Faculty Senates fall agenda.
The AIDS task force was formed in the
spring of1989 and consisted of four faculty, 
four staff members, and two students. The 
impetus for the formation of the task force 
was a letter from Director of Health Services 
Anita Barkin to Dean of Students Michael 
Murphy. The task force was given the 
responsilibity of presenting a proposal for a 
working policy.
The impetus of the policy is to prevent 
discrimination against members of the 
university community who have AIDS or 
are HIV positive, said Barkin. Another 
major thrust of the policy is to commit the 
university to prevention of the spread of 
HIV and other similar diseases. The major 
way to do that is through education.
Please see AIDS, page 5

---------------------------------------------------

arne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSp
United States looks to foreign 
allies for Desert Shield monies
WASHINGTON (AP)Defense Secretary 
Dick Cheney disclosed that the cost of the 
U.S. military buildup in the Middle East 
could total $15 billion in the next fiscal year, 
but promised disgruntled lawmakers a sig
nificant increase in help from Arab nations 
and other U.S. allies.
>Cheney and General Colin Powell, the 
chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, testified 
before the Senate Armed Services Commit
tee, giving Congress its first major update on 
the massive American military deployment 
.that was begun in early August.
...Cheneys cost figure was above the $1- 
bjjlion-a-month estimate generally used by
government officials, and he added that costs 
would multiply many fold if U.S. troops 
become involved in combat.
In other developments, Treasuiy Secretary 
Nicholas Brady said in a press release that 
the Administration is pleased with Japans 
significant contribution to the multinational 
effort to counter the effect of Iraqi aggression 
in Kuwait.
Japan has committed some $4 billion to the 
Persian Gulf since the beginning of the crisis. 
Japans original contribution of $1 billion 
met with catcalls here, prompting a further 
contribution of $3 billion.
Japans help will address the immediate
needs, of the front-line states and assist in the 
defense of Saudi Arabia, Brady said.
Also, Secretary of State James A. Baker 
III, who announced that he will visit Syria to 
coordinate the U.S. drive against Iraq with 
President Hafez Assad, said $12 billion had 
been pledged to the U.S. efforts in the Per
sian Gulf area.
Baker reported that Saudi Arabia, the 
United Arab Emirates, and the overthrown 
government of Kuwait would contribute $12 
billion to help pay for the U.S. defense of the 
Persian Gulf and assist nations hurt finan
cially by their adherence to a United Nations 
boycott of Iraqi products.
Bush proposal seeks to aid economic 
development within the Americas
 WASHINGTON (DJ)  Presie'nt Bush sent Congress legisla
tion detailing financial aspects of 
his Enterprise for the Americas 
initiative announced in July.
The bill outlines a fund to en
courage investment in Latin 
America and also a blueprint for 
cutting back on Latin and Carib
bean countries official debts to 
the U.S. The outline doesnt cover 
Bushs strategy for implement
ing a comprehensive free-trade
zone which would combine into a 
single market all the countries in 
the western hemisphere.
The proposal provides for a $500 
million U.S. contribution over five 
years to a multilateral investment 
fund to be established by the Inter-American Development Bank 
to foster a favorable investment 
climate in Latin America and the 
Caribbean.
The Enterprise for the Ameri
cas Investment Fund will provide
additional support for reforms as 
part of the new IADB investment 
sector lending program.
The proposal also establishes 
the Enterprise for the Americas 
Facility in the U.S. Treasury De
partment to administer debt re
duction on certain governmenttogovernment credits. In order 
to qualify for debt reduction un
der the facility, the country must 
have in effect an International 
Monetary Fund stand-by arrangement or structural adjust
ment facility.
The debt reduction arrange
ment allows interest on remain
ing credits to be paid off in local 
currency if the debtor country has 
reached an agreement with the 
U.S. establishing an environ
mental fund.
In the absence of such an agree
ment, interest would be paid in 
U.S. dollars to the detriment of 
the developing nations.
Bush broadcasts 
to Iraqi people
WASHINGTON (AP) 
President Bush taped a very 
forthright message to the Iraqi 
people, explaining in under 10 
minutes his motives and rea
sons for the U.S. military 
buildup in the Persian Gulf, an 
aide said.
Bush stood in front of his 
desk in the Oval Office for the 
taping, which was to be deliv
ered to Iraqi officials for 
broadcast on Iraqi television, 
said Sig Rogich, the presidents 
media adviser.
The text of Bushs message 
wasnotdisclosedimmediately, 
but the White House said it 
would be released in several 
days.
Bush made the tape follow
ing an announcement by the 
Iraqi government last week 
that it would broadcast a mes
sage to the Iraqi people from 
Bush.
The following day, Iraqs ambassadortotheU.S. declined to 
take personal possession of 
President Bushs taped message to the Iraqi people, White 
House spokesman Marlin 
Fitzwater said.
Acting Secretary of State 
Lawrence Eagleburger at
tempted to give Ambassador 
Mohammed al Mashad a copy 
of the tape Bush taped yester
day for broadcast on Iraqi 
television, taking up an invitar 
tion by the Iraqi government.
The ambassador said the 
message would be broadcast in 
its entirety in prime time, but 
that it must be transmitted, to 
the U.S. Embassy in BaghdSd 
for delivery to the Iraqi gov
ernment.
We expect that this will take 
place within the next day or 
two, spokesman Fitzwater 
said.
Last Friday, the Iraqi gov-Z 
emment reversed itself on 'air.: 
lowing Bush to address Iraqis 
in primetime and stated that 
Bushs message may never-be 
shown on Iraqi television due 
to Iraq's ongoing diplomatic 
posturing.
White House mocks 
Husseins free oil
Souters Senate confirmation hearings begin
'WASHINGTON (AP)  The Senate Judi
ciary Committee opened confirmation hear
ings Thursday for Supreme Court nominee 
David Souter. The panels chairman said 
lawmakers have a duty to discover his views 
on-controversial issues such as the right to 
privacy and equal rights.
We are not asking for any commitments as 
to how you would rule on any specific case, 
Sen. Joseph Biden, D-Del. said. Nor are we 
trying to pry into your personal views on 
publicly debated issues.
Souter sat listening as Biden spoke. The 
New Hampshire native, 50, is President
Bushs first nominee to the Supreme Court. 
The court has been deeply divided in recent 
years on contentious issues such as abortion, 
the death penalty, and civil rights. Conser
vatives hope that, if confirmed, Souter will 
cement a conservative majority in the high 
court.
WASHINGTON (D J)  White 
House spokesman Marlin 
Fitzwater dismissed as another 
ploy an offer by Iraqi President 
Saddam Hussein to supply oil free 
of charge to Third World countries.
Fitzwater said the maneuver 
amounted to another tactic by the 
Iraqi president to gain support 
for his countrys occupation of 
Kuwait. But he said that United 
Nations sanctions prohibiting
Correction..
. The CD-ROM databases mentioned in last weeks issue [page 
3], one of which is located in Hunt Library, are available for use 
. by any member of the campus community but are not available 
over the campus network and are not part of the LIS library 
information system. The databases, containing abstracts and 
. indexes but not complete articles or information sources, must 
be accessed from dedicated terminals directly attached to the 
CD-ROM player. The CD-ROM information cannot be retrieved 
;in any electroninc format; it must be printed out by the user.
South African violence escalates 
in wake of constitutional reforms
trade with Iraq under a UN Secu
rity Council resolution would ap
ply to the transfer of oil.
That is covered by the UN 
sanctions very specifically,... and 
its just another sign of the frus
tration on the part of Saddam 
Hussein, said Fitzwater. Hesju^t 
trying to get support everywhere 
he can find it... and hes willing to 
try any tactic he can come up 
with. And this is just another one!
News briefs courtesy 
of Dow Jones, Inc.
JOHANNESBURG (AP)  At 
least 25 people died Tuesday in 
black faction fighting, andAfrican 
National Congress (ANC) leader 
Nelson Mandela said the 
governments failure to halt the 
carnage put the peace process in 
distress.
Mandela led an ANC-delegation that met with President F. W.
de Klerk to discuss violence be
tween rival black factions that 
has plagued black townships near 
Johannesburg since August 12, 
claiming more than 650 lives.
The government came under 
heavy attack (during the meet
ing) for its failure to take visible 
measures to deal with the situa
tion, Mandela told journalists,
adding that he accused the gov
ernment of waging war against 
the ANC.
He said the ANC would do ev
erything possible to continue talks 
with the government about a new 
constitution to give the black ma
jority political power. But there 
was no doubt that the peace pro
cess is in distress, Mandela said.
Edited by 
rm um 9yg00
fir*
Layout Assistant 
Unis0M,hnei rn,1g0
Celebrate Tradition
a Balfour
Class Ring!
College memories can last a lifetime, when 
theyre preserved in a Balfour Class Ring. 
Sports, academics, degrees, years of graduation 
and custom school designs can all be captured in 
your Balfour Class Ring.. .a tradition of 
excellence since 1931!
Thursday, September 20 Baker Hall 10 am - 4 pm
Friday, September 21 Carnegie Shoppe 10 am - 4 pm
Balfour* No oneremmbersinso many ways.
 11 iI V Jt

---------------------------------------------------

rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSpc
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer
Rod Hickman takes food from Carnegie Mellon Dining Service for dropoff at the Three Rivers Table food 
donation service. The Universitys food donating efforts began last May, and now Carnegie Mellon 
donates approximately 80 pounds of food a day to the service. To accommodate the extra food, an extra 
part-time driver has been hired.
By DAN MARTINEZTartan Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon Dining Service 
has recently become one of 29 new 
donors to the Three Rivers Table 
program, a service for poor persons 
in need of food. This relief effort has 
resulted largely from the passage 
of Pennsylvanias Good Samari
tan law, and from the work of 
junior Ann Steffy, who succeeded 
in gaining the administrations 
approval for the idea at the begin
ning of last semester.
The Good Samaritan law, 
which exempts contributors such 
as the food bank from liability 
should the provided food prove 
tainted, is credited with doubling 
the amount of donated food the 
Three Rivers Table program has to 
work with. 
The donor used to be responsible 
for simple negligence, said James 
Gurley, director of CMDS. But the 
Pennsylvania legislature changed 
[the law] to read gross negligence 
because some possible donors 
werent willing to risk dealing with 
the ambiguity of the law.
[Steffi] was the impetus in getting us 
started." dGK
C James Gurley, 
director of CMDS
The law has allowed CMDS to 
begin contributing to organizations 
like the Three Rivers Table pro
gram, and these contributions are 
already receiving a favorable re
sponse.
I think [our donations] are a 
positive thing, commented Erick 
Naka-Mizrahi, SDC Food Com
mittee chair. In addition to help
ing the student body, it also allows 
the people who dont have the abil
ity to get food to eat, and I think 
thats great.
Ann was the impetus in getting 
us started, said Gurley. She sub
mitted a proposal early in the 
spring semester, and that got us 
going. There were legal issues that 
had to be cleared, but when the 
state came out with the new legis
lation, we became very interested 
in the program.
Steffy was unavailable for com
ment.
The Three Rivers Table Pro
gram, which has been receiving 
food from CMDS since May of this 
year, is part of the Greater Pitts
burgh Community Food Bank, 
which manages a wide variety .of 
donations.
The food bank accepts both food, 
ranging from prepackaged goods 
to industrial quantities of basic 
foodstuffs, and financial contribu
tions to its buying program. The 
various sources add up to a sub
stantial amount: in a typical 
month, the Food Bank finds itself 
managing an average of 750,000 
pounds of food.
Carnegie Mellon in Brief
University responds to changing admission trends
CX,
CarCanNEWSANALYSIS
By MICHAEL J. EWEDOSHTartan Asst. Business Manager
Decreasing numbers of high 
school graduates are causing col
leges and universities across the 
country to become more competi
tive. as they scramble to fill the 
openings in their freshman 
cteSses.
.William F. Elliott, vice presi
dent for enrollment and former 
director of admissions at Carnegie 
Mellon, predicts that the number 
of high school graduates will con
tinue to decline until 1993. He 
alotpredicts that the number of 
hag quality graduates within 
tBat pool  the group that 
Carnegie Mellon seeks to admit 
 is shrinking at an even faster 
rate.
What does that mean for 
Carnegie Mellon? Competition 
for students is heating up, said 
Dire'ctor of Admissions Michael 
Steidel. As we see the next four 
year's that we need to maneuver
GMDS begins contributing to food kitchen program
There are probably kids here that ten 
years ago or five years ago would not 
have been admitted. Thats true of 
any institution.
 William F. Elliott, 
VP for Enrollment
SCS celebrates 25 years
Carnegie Mellons School of Computer Science will hold its 
125th Anniversary Symposium from September 24-26. The threeday event will celebrate the 25 years since the founding of
; Carnegie Mellons Department of Computer Science, one of the 
; first computer science departments in the world.
All speakers at the symposium are either current or former 
; members of the SCS community.
The symposium will open on Monday, September 24, with a 
program presented by Ivan E. Sutherland, vice president of 
; Sutherland, Sproull, and Associates, Inc. Sutherland will present 
; a program entitled Technology and Courage. On Monday 
evening, there will be an electronic music concert featuring the 
; VideoHarp, an optically scanned musical instrument controller 
; which converts moving images of the fingers into music.
All programs will be held at Carnegie Music Hall and are free 
and open to the entire campus community.
University to research 
waste disposal
Carnegie Mellon has received a $400,000 grant from Chambers 
Development Co., Inc., to study and improve existing methods of 
solid waste disposal, especially methods of environmental quality 
control for landfill operations. The grant will fund three research
 projects focusing on the environmental control, efficiency and 
productivity of modern landfill operations. These projects include
; a study of airspace operation (packing the maximum amount of 
; waste material into a landfill site), a study of the chemistry of 
! metals in landfill leachate (the liquid created by rainwater 
J seeping through landfill contents) to determine the most eco
nomical removal techniques, and a study of leachate distillation, 
a method of disposing of the liquid.
Solid waste issues are being addressed by nearly a dozen 
Carnegie Mellon faculty and graduate and undergraduate 
; students under environmental engineering professor Francis C. 
McMichael. McMichael also serves as the director of Carnegie 
Mellons Center for Solid Waste Management Research.
Modern landfills are complex and expensive technical facilities
that require an extensive knowledge of engineering, geology, and 
chemistry, said McMichael. Today, environmentally safe 
landfills cost between $250-500,000 per acre to develop.
Sanitary landfills, along with recycling, composting, and 
resource recovery, are an important part of the total, integrated 
solid waste management program necessary to help our nation 
solve its waste disposal problems, said Chambers president and 
chief executive officer John G. Rangos, Sr.
According to Steve Menoff, Chambers vice president of engi
neering, the research conducted here at Carnegie Mellon will 
include data collection by on-site instrumentation of both new 
and existing landfills.
Nominations solicited for 
teaching awards
Members of the Carnegie Mellon community may now submit 
nominations for two of Carnegie Mellons most prestigious 
education awards: the Doherty Prize and the Ryan Award.
The Doherty Prize is awarded to members of the University 
community who have made substantial and sustained contribu
tions to excellence in education. All current and retired full-time 
employees of the University are eligible.
The Ryan Award is intended to recognize excellence in teaching 
undergraduates in several dimensions, including classroom 
teaching, student advising, supervision of undergraduate re
search or creative projects, and supervision of undergraduate 
honors students. All regular Carnegie Mellon faculty members 
are eligible.
Nominations for these awards may be made by any group of at 
least three people, each of whom must be either a current or 
retired faculty member or a current or former full-time student. 
Nominations should be submitted in the form of a letter of no 
more than two pages.
Nominations for the Doherty Prize should be submitted to 
Barbara Lazarus for the Doherty Prize Committee, EDSH 209. 
Nominations for the Ryan Award should be submitted to Ted 
Fenton for the Ryan Committee, EDSH 203.
Nominations for each award must.be received by Friday, 
October 26.
University lectures begin
Tomorrow, September 18, will be the first of the new series of 
Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series. Judith Franz, Presi
dent of the American Association of Physics Teachers, will speak 
on Women in Science and Engineering.
A student/faculty panel discussion, entitled Bringing It All 
Back Home: The Carnegie Mellon Experience, will follow the 
lecture, which will take place at 3:30 pm in the Skibo Wherrett 
Room.
Also tomorrow, Goran Lindhal, executive vice president of Asea 
Brown Boveri in Zurich, Switzerland, will speak as part of the 
Educational Research Design Center Lecture Series. Lindhal will 
speak on The Power Engineering Industry: Restructured and 
Technology Oriented.
A Phi O requests C-Book 
information
Alpha Phi Omega is in the process of preparing the 1990-91 CBook, Carnegie Mellons student telephone and address directory. 
If you believe that the registrars office does not currently have 
your correct address, please fill out a C-Book correction form 
available at the Skibo Information Desk or the A Phi O office 
(Skibo 54). To help ensure accurate listings, please submit your 
corrections to the Skibo Information Desk or the A Phi O office by 
tomorrow, September 18.
Provost Search Committee 
solicits input
The Provost Search Committee, formed to identify internal and 
external candidates for the Office of the Provost, has asked the 
campus communitys assistance in identifying potential external 
candidates. The committee plans to devote attention first to the 
external search, then to possible internal candidates. Suggestions 
should be sent to Provost Search Committee, c/o Karen Proietti, 
602 Warner Hall, or KP07@andrew.
through, were going to see a de
clining number of students 
graduating from high school who 
will be potential college fresh
men. As a result, were concerned 
that we weather this successfully 
 and I think that we will.
Steidels confidence follows a 
year in which the number of 
freshman applications dropped 
by more than 350: from 6,515 
applications in 1989 to 6,153 in 
1990.
Still, Steidel doesnt believe that 
the shrinking pool of applicants 
has affected the quality of the 
current classes at Carnegie 
Mellon.
Weve been fortunate in that 
there has been a lot of choice 
among applicants to the point 
that were still getting more ap
plications than the number of 
students actually enrolling, said
Steidel. Were having to work 
harder to make that happen, 
but the quality of the pool that 
ends up as freshmen has not 
changed significantly over 
time.
At the same time, Elliott 
pointed out, there are probably 
kids here that ten years ago or 
five years ago would not have 
been admitted. Thats true of 
any institution.
Steidel believes that chang
ing demographics and increas
ing competition will mean a 
change in the rules of the col
lege admissions game.
Theres no question aboutit, 
he said.  I think that the Uni
versity is going to see everyone 
needing to be involved in admis
sions.
He attributes this change to a 
different focus of prospective
Kishor Rao/Tartan photographr
Associate Director of Undergraduate Admissions Michael White speaks with a student in the Admissions 
Office. Due to a decline in the number of talented high school graduates, Carnegie Mellon is under strong 
pressure to attract the best of the available candidates.
outside of the classroom in the 
way of clubs, varsity sports, and 
organizations. As we talk with 
prospective students, people are 
more concerned with the answer 
to the question What else is my 
son or daughter going to be in
volved in and what is the quality
students who are looking at col
leges and universities.
Perhaps, in the past, the qual
ity of the undergraduate experi
ence was solely academic, he said, 
but now, the experience is really 
expanded to include facilities and 
also to include what you can do
of that experience going to be? * 
Elliott said that colleges and 
universities across the nation are 
responding to the quality of life 
issue, and Carnegie Mellon is'>Q|> 
exception.
Weve come a long way and 
Please see ADMISSIONS, page, 4

---------------------------------------------------

wrne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSp
CMU launches recycling program
RECYCLING, from page 1
efforts of the department of Envi
ronmental Health and Safety. 
Program developers, including 
Beckmann and EH&S director 
Pete Collopy, describe the cur
rent plan as adaptive and flex
ible.
vMore important than the 
programs flexibility, however, is 
the fundamental... philosophy 
qjpthe recycling program, which, 
according to Beckmann and 
Qollopy, is participation by ev
eryone.
^Recycling is not a moneymaker, but an environmentsaver, said Beckmann. It is just 
one aspect of one of the important 
functions of environmental pres
ervation: waste reduction. The 
more we recycle, the less waste 
we put into our environment.
Recycling, according to 
Beckmann and Collopy, doesnt 
only mean tossing paper, card
board, cans, and bottles into des
ignated bins. It also includes 
giyingitems to Goodwill or selling 
what doesnt necessarily have to 
be. thrown away, using e-mail in 
place of memos, printing double
sided copies, and employing other 
acts of environmental 
conciousness.
Its behavior modification, ba
sically, said Beckmann.
Although the recycling program 
carries the endorsement of the 
university administration, a re
cycling committee organized at 
th^.end of last spring by Collopy, 
wfyo also chairs the committee, 
and senior civil engineering/engi
neering and public policy major
You'll collect less materials the 
more you expect out of people. But at 
this point in the game, I think that 
what they're doing is smart, because 
it's flexible.
C Jeff Rosenblum, 
TTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTTsenior CE/EPP major
Jeff Rosenblum had proposed a 
plan of its own to the university. 
Due to financial constraints, 
however, the administration had 
to reject the committees pro
posal.
According to Rosenblum, the 
committees program would have 
diverted more recyclables from 
the waste stream than the 
administrations program will  
at least for a while. To collect 
more recyclables, however, re
quires more facilities and hired 
help, both of which in turn require 
more dollars than the adminis
tration can spare.
The committees original plan 
and the program which has been 
implemented differ in several 
ways. One difference is that ac
cording to the committees plan, 
paper products to be recycled 
would be collected in several 
dumpsters located in various 
places around campus. Instead, 
there will be only one central 
dumpster located behind the 
Physical Plant building to collect 
all paper recyclables.
Another difference is that the 
committee planned to employ 
American Building Maintenance 
workers to transport papers to 
the recycling location. Under the 
new plan, Physical Plant workers 
will transport recyclables.
Youll collect less materials the 
more you expect out of people, 
saidRosenblum. But atthis point 
in the game, I think that what 
theyre doing is smart, because 
its flexible.
Although the committees plan, 
in the end, would save about 
$35,000 more in disposal costs, 
the administration cannot afford 
to purchase enough of the means 
to produce those savings in the 
first place.
The result is a university recy
cling program which does not in
clude all the preferred recom
mendations of the committee, but 
which does follow the committees 
proposal as closely as is finan
cially possible.
One of the confirmed compo
nents of the new, campus-wide 
recycling program is that imple
mentation of the recycling pro
gram will be phased in over a 
six-month period, beginning Sep
tember 26.
The first phase of the pro
gram is recycling paper in those 
buildings which generate large 
volumes of recyclables and which 
are relatively simple to manage 
from a logistics perspective, ac
cording to Beckmann  mainly 
Hamburg Hall, Warner Hall, and 
the University Computing Center.
Office personnel in these areas 
will place recyclable paper in 
cardboard boxes and other avail
able containers and set the paper 
outside their office doors. Physi
cal Plant employees will collect 
the paper daily and haul it away 
to dumpsters behind the Physical 
Plant.
The university will also be cre
ating the position of a recycling 
coordinator, whose primary du
ties will be managing the recy
cling program and non-hazardous waste disposal, according to 
an EH&S e-mail memo detailing 
preliminary information on the 
program. Administration officials 
hope to hire the Recycling Coordi
nator internally.
In addition, because campus 
buildings vary greatly in their 
facilities to handle recycling ma
terial, each university department 
will appoint its own recycling co
ordinator to oversee collection 
procedures unique to that de
partment.
The university is also evaluat
ing new locations for glass recy
cling, which currently takes place 
in the Physical Plant building.
CMU responds to ' 
admissions trends
ADMISSIONS, from page 3
weve got a long way to go, he 
said. Students expect a supe
rior education, and its up to 
faculty to develop it. At the same 
time, the physical plant is part 
of it, too.
Everyone is looking to the 
University Center. Thats just 
the laboratory, said Elliott. 
Its the experiments that you 
run in the laboratory  the 
people, the programming. 
Youre talking about dormito
ries and student centers, youre 
talking about the Dean of Stu
dent Affairs staff and Housing. 
I dont think that anyone de
cides to go to school based on 
these factors first, but Im not 
saying that they cant be a de
ciding factor.
Academics drive the en
gines, he said. What are you 
going to do with a person be
tween the ages of 18 and 22 
thats going to allowthat person 
to be a successful and contrib
uting member of society for the 
next 40 years?
Elliott points to continuing 
changes at Carnegie Mellon as 
the university strives to achieve 
new levels academic quality, 
including revisions in the cur
riculum of CIT, a new dean in 
CFA, and other changes in the 
Art and Music Departments.
Tm not going to say that put
ting up a bagpiping major is 
goingto draw huge numbers [of
students], but thats a very 
small example of a new pro
gram [weve created] because of 
a niche that weve got. * -
Elliott believes that Carnegie 
Mellon also occupies other 
niches in higher education. 
You could make the same 
issue with regards to profes
sional education,he remarked, , 
Thats obviously a big niche 
that Carnegie Mellon has occu
pied for years and years.
Elliott feels that the area of 
computing is another in which 
Carnegie Mellon has achieved 
high levels of accomplishment. 
He notes the surprise that 
President Mehrabian expressed 
at the level of computer use by 
students across the University.
He said to me, Theres1 
probablymore computinginthe 
College of Humanities and So
cial Sciences here than there is11 
in lots of engineering schools 
outside ofthis university, said" 
Elliott.
The whole issue is: Where  
does Carnegie Mellon fit into 
the array? said Elliott. T6 
answer that, we must listeft' 
very astutely, taking all of the 
messages from the faculty, aricT 
synthesizing that based on ev-~ 
erything we know about what 
is going on in the world and be 
able to go out and talk to those~ 
eighteen-year-olds such that 
this is the place that theyll 
come to.
Crime and Incident Report
9/8 SAFETY VIO
LATION/DISOR
DERLY CON
DUCT, 1:17 am. A 
Delta Upsilon brother UtB
was sitting on the r^DIMCwindow sill of a third O KIM L
flopr window of the JfI4Jr
Delta Upsilon frater
nity house, overlooking the patio, with 
his legs hanging outside, and was asked 
tyice to stop by Campus Police. The 
second warning threatened a citation 
td the brother and/or the house. The 
brother then came down and began 
ajguing with the officer, demanding 
tljat the officer contact his attorney in 
tl|e morning because, Ive been sitting 
oiji my sill for four years, youve cited 
rr^e twice for it and Ive won both times. 
lV[y attorney took care of you people 
tl en and hell take care of you now. He 
then insisted upon being taken to jail. 
After continued discussion, the officers 
cifced the brother for safety violations.
Later, the brother approached the 
officer who issued the citation and asked 
him if he didnt think it was rather 
silly to cite someone for what he does 
behind closed doors. He insisted he 
could even snort 46 lines of coke and 
police would have no authority to to do 
anything. After further continuation of 
the conversation, the officer warned 
the student that his behavior could 
lead to a citation for harassment. As 
this citation was being written the 
student walked away.
The student is presently being is
sued a citation through Student Affairs 
for harassment.
9/8 MEDICAL ESCORT, 1:57 am. 
A complainant called Campus Police 
and reported that a Sigma Nu brother 
was hit in the left eye by another house 
member. The victims eye showed signs 
of redness and swelling. He requested 
transportation to the hospital. The vic
tim doesnt know why he was hit and 
cant remember whether or not he gave
cause to be hit. He did say that the 
matter would be taken care of within 
the fraternity and that he did not want 
to file any charges against his assail
ant.
9/8 PUBLIC DISTURBANCE/AS
SAULT, 2:22 am. Campus Police were 
notified about a fight at Delta Upsilon. 
The victim, a University of Pittsburgh 
student, stated that while trying to 
leave in his car, people started kicking 
the car and spitting on it. He pursued 
one of the attackers up to Delta 
Upsilons door and claims that he was 
suddenly struck about the head and 
body. According to Delta Upsilon, 
though, the fight occurred when the 
man became belligerent when he was 
refused admittance into the house.
The victim sustained a concussion on 
the left side of his head, his watch was 
broken, and the middle finger on his 
left hand was bitten. When the victim 
got into the squad car to be taken to the 
hospital, Delta Upsilon members came
out on to their porch and taunted him. 
Delta Upsilon was issued a university 
citation for failure to disperse.
9/8 ODOR OF GAS, 11:45 pm. A 
Campus Police officer was called to the 
new dorm area for the smell of natural 
gas. The officer described the odor as 
one like that of sewer gas. The smell 
was found in the stairwell levels two 
through five. A recommendation stated 
that the drains should be flushed with 
water to have the odor dissipate.
9/9 DISORDERLY CONDUCT, 
3:23 am. Campus Police received a call 
regarding three men loitering outside 
of Donner Hall. One man had just uri
nated on a car when the reporting of
ficers responded. The individuals ran 
to the front of Scobell Hall to gain 
entrance when they saw the officers. 
All three were issued university cita
tions for fleeing police and one was 
issued an additional citation for public 
urination.
9/9 DISORDERLY CONDUCT,
11:56 pm. While on patrol, two Campus ; 
Police officers observed a group of Pi : 
Kappa Alpha brothers and two other ! 
male individuals pushing and shout-Ji 
ing in the quad area near Pika. The i 
men had been asked to leave after;'! 
causing a disturbance in the basement. ;;! 
The difficulty grew worse when onCofSI 
the men threatened that he had a gun j 
in his possession. The officers then! 
warned the men to stay away from ISe 
Pika house. Later that night, however,^ 
one of the men tried to get back intof i 
Pika. Campus Police immediately Aco 
sponded and asked the men to leaye^; 
campus. An argument with the officers V; 
developed and much verbal abuse eK5;; j 
sued. Both men were later arrestecGSj 
9/9 MEDICAL, 2:30 am. A Carnegie ; 
Mellon student was dancing on Pir ; 1 
Lambda Phis dance floor when he fell ; | 
headfirst, chippinghis two upper front | 
teeth.
Compiled by 
RHONDA STRUMIN GER
IADNESS
ONE 10PEPPERONI PIZZA!
TWO 140NE ITEM PIZZAS & 4 $y*|Q95
FREE CANS OF COKE OR PEPSI "'y
CARRY OUT ONLY*TUE, WED & THUR 4:30PM-8:30PM
' ALTOONA PA944-1211726-728 FOURTH AVE
 ASHTABULA OH992-6989 2323 LAKE AVE
 BECKLEY WV253-9696338 N. EISENHOWER OR
 BRIDGEPORT OH
635-2400801 MAIN STREET
 BUTLER PA *263-3383
> CARLISLE PA243-0006598 WEST HIGH ST.
 ERIE PA454-1545824 EAST SIXTH ST.
 FRANKLIN PA432-7700902 UBEHTY ST.
 HAGERSTOWN MD*
739-838070 WEST FRANKLIN ST.
 OIL CITY PA676-56002tM EAST SECOND ST.
 OAKLAND PA683-0400 *7*0 BAUM BLVO
 MEADVILLE PA724-4242 too TERRACE ST
 McKEES ROCKS PA 771-555482 CHARTIERS AVE
 WASHINGTON PA *
223-0111860 JEFFERSON AVE
 ZANESVILLE N OH *
452-9300 1250 MAPLE AVE
 ZANESVILLE S OH* 452-94441S36 MAYSVILLE AVE
-4BJ uBJ 
I.AAx
Fast FREE Delivery
WITHIN 30 MINUTES
ASK ABOUT OUR 12 MINUTE GUARANTEE!
5B3UR r.tf uIfU.x5WINCLUDES ANY 10ONE ITEM PIZZA $ 
PLUS A12 OZ CAN OF COKE OR PEPSI Ol*l
Family Special ! Pizza & Sub Combo
A LARGE DELUXE HCA FOB UOU t 0A0 A LARGE PPER0NI PfflA fOfl THE W0$ HUS FOUR FflEE CANS Of COKE 0(1 PEPSI1049l s1395 l s10": s8" II
Of VOUR CHOCE
i------ -fi. Iehhei,ls-,ie;ei s
 COR 1ITQZA C0UPIETE WM EXTRA I PEPPEKWI1EXIM CHEESE MUR ?I t GET ANOTHER FOfl ONU H MUORE'
I I
r,71'
I Two 14 One Item I 
I Pizzas (Doublezz) 
[] 1* SUCES B
|$
Q Only
jj nxnstu j
j Two 14 One Item j 
! Pizzas (Doublezz) 
2* SUCES n ------------------------------------ -: s1049 $1395 i s10" *91?q Ba 'VBf!' m >b< m VAll0 ,H|0AY510pu Hum
I "ST BS55SSS. I "Bg*'----------------------I
i
Family Special
I;rI nwsw - P ran
! r
PIUS FOUR FREE CANS Of COKE OR PEPSI
! Pizza & Sub Combo
I INCLUDES A LARGE PlHA WITH TOUR CHOCE n Of ONE TOPPING PIUS ANT BIG Irti" Of YOUR CHOCE
.
! I I
I AFTER THE GAME $
 Football Special 
I TWO 14ONE ITEM PIZZAS  *<*99 j
D .
Are you an A.C.O.A.*?
Do you...
 Guess at what is normal?
Judge yourself without mercy?
Act super responsibly or irresponsibly? 
Have difficulty with intimate relationships?
-4-r? Iflflf '- 
.2 Mns0 0,zlk0 ysLe D,zE N,sl g 01gyy V,l2skelMsgy vi,zh 2,i xkzyM 
Unsykiel ,2 xyV,n,ysV0 l,8 2,i1slv gM Mne U,zl0eyslv glk 
uMzkelM Ye;ey,h1elM UelMeim rne vi,zh 8syy 1eeM 2,i Pp 0e00s,l0 
Mns0 0e1e0Mei 7evsllslv uehMe17ei awEPSSpm -,i uMzkelM0 ,lyDm
Ugyy yel unei1gl ,i J,0eglle RsVLeDE fMm aSaa
K xkzyM Unsyk ,2 gl xyV,n,ysV

---------------------------------------------------

rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSpq
Middle Eastern students react to Gulf crisis
STUDENTS, from page 1
wait on a business trip on August 1 and 
had been detained. She was released 
just five days ago.
; It was weird, sudden, and unexpected. 
Ij felt kind of helpless because my mom 
\Vas there, said Hussein.
According to Hussein, the invasion has 
been the cause of some concern in Egypt. 
[Kuwaits] experience is our experience, 
I guess, because our future is unsure 
now in Cairo, he said.
My mother contacted us the first day 
because the phone lines hadnt been cut 
yet, said Hussein. When they were, the 
Egyptian Embassy kept us updated and
once [my father and I] drove to Saudi 
Arabia with friends who had cellular car 
phones. Since the inner lines in Kuwait 
were never cut, we could talk to her. 
When his mother was released, the 
only problem she had was crossing from 
Iraq to Jordan. She had to stay two days 
at the border because they werent pre
pared for the volumes of people leaving. 
My mother was apprehensive about 
the trip on the desert roads, he said. 
Even though the roads are asphalt, cars 
get stuck in dust storms ... some friends 
left Kuwait with 130 cars. Only 70 made 
it through the desert.
The route for people trying to leave
Kuwait varies. Crossing into Iraq is 
pretty safe, saidHussein. Crossinginto 
Saudi Arabia is like crossing into a war 
zone  you have to take side roads, 
which are worse. Most Americans would 
rather take the harder trip through Saudi 
Arabia, though, to avoid Iraq.
His mother is now in Jordan, where 
she is staying with friends.
According to International Student 
Advisor Victor Thacker, Officially, un
der our official sponsorship, we dont 
have any students from Kuwait or Iraq 
... however, some students have indi
cated that the exchange rate has ad
versely been affected by the situation.
"There was a lot left behind in terms of prop
erty and material goods, and the looting did 
get bad.
C Mervat Hussein, 
mother of student Karim Hussein
The currency value from some of the 
Middle East countries has gone down, 
which might adversely affect their 
familys ability to support them. 
Husseins mother told him that life
within Kuwait was fairly normal.
Everything was available, life went' 
on, she told him. There was a lot left 
behind in terms of property and material 
goods, and the looting did get bad.
Task force creates policy
AIDS, from page 1
Along with the policy, the task 
force also submitted four rec
ommendations that arose at 
comittee meetings. Since the 
recommendations did not di
rectly affect the AIDS policy, 
the comitee elected to submit 
them for separate consideration 
by the Senate.
Among the four recommen
dations are that proposals for 
the hiring of a full time univer
sity health educator, that 
condoms and spermicides be 
made more widely available on 
campus, that anonymous AIDS
testing be offered on campus, 
and that the task force be con
tinued after the policy is 
implemented.
The task force would be con
tinued to do a review of the 
policy and make sure that edu
cational programs are put in 
place, said Barkin.
The health educatoris needed, 
according to the committee, in 
order to teach the campus com
munity about AIDS, AIDS pre
vention, and other sexually 
transmitted diseases, as well as 
other health problems.
According to Barkin, At this
time, the suggestion for 
anonymous testinghas already 
been implemented. Thats 
where people can see the re
sults of our work now.
The tests are now available 
at CMU Health Services for 
$20.
Currently, condoms are 
available at Health Services 
and Entropy. By making it 
easier for students to obtain 
condoms, the committee hopes 
that more students will prac
tice safe sex to prevent sexually 
transmitted diseases and 
pregnancy.
This is proving to be the best defensive weapon in the fight for human rights.
Pick up your pen. And write a letter. Wher. 
written to the right person, it can have a 
devastating impact. Your letter can help 
someone whos been jailed for his or her 
religion, political beliefs, language, color, sex or 
ethnic background.
Amnesty International has used the power 
of words since 1961, to help more than 25,000 
men, women and children gain their freedom, 
their respect and their lawful rights.
In todays war of words, the most powerful 
thoughts are usually the most personal. Make 
an impact. Piclc up your pen today. And write. 
It could be the most powerful letter youve ever
Write a letter, save a life.
Amnesty International
To Oakland <-------Forbes Ave
Pittsburgh I 
ProBikes I--1
2012 Murray 
Avenu
521-2453
Forbes Ave
><
Beacon St
Pittsburgh Pro Bikes
521-2453
$50-200 offon Road Bikes
Helmets 
10% off
for CMU students only with coupon
Fraternity pledge night 
clashes with Yom Kippur
PLEDGES, from page 1
of making sure that no such con
flicts occur in the future. The new 
provisions in the bylaws should 
prevent this from happening 
again, said IFC President John 
Ginsburg, a senior mathematics/ 
cognitive science major.
We just werent thinking. It 
was a definite oversight on our 
part, said Moret, a senior indus
trial management/economics 
major. The rush dates were 
planned last April, and we just 
missed it. We should have noticed 
the mistake earlier, though. 
Ginsburg agreed. At the begin
ning of this semester, it was 
brought to our attention by Alpha 
Epsilon Pi, and we changed the 
date of their ceremony.
We actually noticed it at the 
end of last semester, said 
Indianer, who is a junior com
puter engineering major. We 
brought it up at the last IFC 
meeting,and discussed what op
tions we had, but everyone wasnt 
here. The IFC decided to put off a 
decision until we had all the 
presidents here this year because 
its a big issue.
Another problem with the 
scheduling of this years frater
nity pledge night is the away foot
ball game at Adrian College the 
next day. The away game affects 
members of many fraternities, but 
especially those of Alpha Tau 
Omega and Beta Theta Pi. Mem
bers of the football team will be 
leaving for Adrian College early 
on Friday, and therefore will be 
unable to attend the pledge cer
emonies.
It is my responsibility, said 
Moret. It was an oversight about 
the holiday, and in the spring, we 
werent even thinking football.
One suggestion brought up to 
IFC was rescheduling pledge night 
for every fraternity this year, but 
this was rejected because of con
flicts with other events.
We couldnt push it back, be
cause of Homecoming. It would 
have had to be two weeks later. 
We couldnt push it forward, be
cause it was too late, said 
Indianer. Our hands were tied 
into the solution we used. Im 
happy that the resolution was 
quick and easy.
Sigma Tau Gamma brother 
Aron Temkin, a fourth-year ar
chitect, was glad the problem was 
resolved, but isnt really satisfied 
with the solution.
My personal feeling is that this 
sends a bad message out, he said.1 - 
It seems to say that were open to : 
some of you, but not all. It would 4 
have taken five seconds to look at 
a calendar. That bothers me; we 
need to show a bit more concern.'
I dont think that people are apa-' - 
thetic, just that they dont under
stand the message theyre prsenting.
It was most unfortunate, be-*J 
cause there is Jewish representtion in the Greek community and ' 
on IFC, said Assistant Dean of 
Student Affairs Ron Campan/ ' 
Im very pleased and proud with ' 
the way this was handled. In-- 
stead of making excuses, they' 
admitted a mistake, faced the - 
consequences, and worked to> 
correct it. They also raised the; - 
consciousness of everyone to the: " 
fact, and that helped in the reso
lution.
It is a mistake that has hap
pened in the past, and one that^ 
wont happen again, said Moret. '.
I think that will help solve the' 
problem. This time, every house' 
responded in a positive manner, 
said Indianer. Changinga pledge 
night is a big thing, and I thank ; 
them for responding so well.
HERE'S WHY THE SMART MONEY AT CARNEGIE MELLON UNIVERSITY IS GOING WHH TIAA-CREF AS IF THE FUTURE DEPENDED ON IT.
B
ecause it does. Smart investors 
know that your future depends on 
how well your retirement system 
performs. TIAA-CREF has been the 
premier retirement system for people 
in education and research for over 70 
years. We have enabled over 200,000 
people like you to enjoy a comfortable 
retirement. And over 1,000,000 more 
are now planning for the future with 
TIAA-CREF.
SMART MONEY 100KS FOR SECURITY, 
GROWTH AND DIVERSITY FOR RETIREMENT SAVINGS.
Securityso the resources are there 
when it is time to retire. Growthso 
youll have enough income for the 
kind of retirement you want. And 
diversityto help protect you against 
market volatility and to let you benefit 
from several types of investments.
THATS EXACTIY WHAT YOU GET WITH TIAA-CREF.
TIAA offers you the safety of a 
traditional annuity that guarantees 
your principal plus a specified rate of 
interest, and provides for additional
growth through dividends. CREFs 
variable annuity offers opportunities 
for growth through four different 
investment accounts, each managed 
with the long-term perspective essen
tial to sound retirement planning:
The CREF Stock Account 
The CREF Money Market Account 
The CREF Bond Market Account* 
The CREF Social Choice Account*
CALL 1-800-842-2776 
TO FIND OUT MORE 
Our experienced retirement counselors 
will be happy to answer your questions 
and tell you more about retirement 
annuities from TIAA-CREF.
Experience. Performance. Strength. 
Your future is protected by the largest 
private retirement system in the world. 
We have done so well, for so many, for 
so long, that we currently manage 
some $85 billion in assets.
Ensuring the future ^ 
for those who shape it.*"
T The CREF Bond Market and Social Choice Accounts may not be available under all institutional retirement plans, but arc 
available for all Supplemental Retirement Annuity plans.
For more complete information, including charges and expenses, call 1 800 842-2733, ext 5509 for a 
prospectus. Read the prospectus carefully before you invest or send money.

---------------------------------------------------

camegie
melln
Call Us... 
Ask Us ... 
Join Us ...
camegie
melln
The Activities Board purpose is to provide student oriented entertainment to the campus. In the past the board has brought 
. such artists as big name rock bands like Til Tuesday and Oingo Boingo, as well as lesser name comedians such as Rondell 
Sheridan, and Wayne Federman. We will continue to bring quality entertainment to campus this year. ABs range of programming 
for the semester thus far includes rock bands, folk singers, a large movie selection, comedians, magicians, a music censorship de
bate, special events, alternative bands, etc... While we program for the campus at large we also endeavor to program a diverse col
lection of artists. It is often true that college is the time when you are most exposed to things you were unfamiliar with, or unaware 
of. We offer to educate you as well as entertain you.
The Activities Board would like you to call us, to ask us, and ultimately to join us in our programming endeavors. We are an 
organization for the students and you have the ideas we want to hear! Much of our programming is done based upon what the re
sponses we get from students.
Call us at x2105.
Drop us a line at the Skibo Information desk.
Heather Osmond: (Coffeehouse Chair) Heather is a junior in 
technical writing. Heather began her stint with AB as a films 
ticket taker. She would enjoy hearing your ideas for coffeehouse. 
Coffeehouses role in AB is mainly to program smaller (100-500) 
seat events, with lesser known acts. Coffeehouses normally are 
comedians, magicians, hypnotists, folk singers, and other miscel
laneous acts of a similar stature.
Erik Niffhtwine: (Special Events/Co-op Chair) Erik is a junior 
in Mechanical Engineering. Erik is heading up the newest AB 
committee which was formed at the end of last year when AB 
Dance was disbanded. The idea behind this new position was to 
provide a source for students to program an event based upon 
an idea they might have. With the guidance of the Activities 
Board the person should be able to acquire responsibility, lead
ership, and experiences that they normally would be unable to 
get elsewhere. Join Erik on Saturdays at 4:30 in Skibo 201 to let 
your ideas fly. The possibilities are almost endless.
Joshua Lvnn: fAB Technical Chair) Joshua is a mechanical 
engineer in his final year here at CMU. Joshua is in his third 
year on the Executive Board of AB. The Technical committee 
which Joshua runs handles most of the sound and light produc
tion for AB events as well as the events for other organizations. If 
you have an interest in using Techs services or just have an 
interest in AB Tech, please give them a call, x2104.
Brian Papa: (AB Technical Co-Chair) Brian is a sophomore in 
mechanical engineering. Brian started on tech as one of the tech 
workers and has expressed enthusiasm for what Tech does. 
Again, If you wish to talk about the services of AB Tech, Brian 
can also help you.
Dave Willis: (AB Lectures Chairman) Dave is a senior me| chanical engineer who is in his first year with the Activities 
; Board. The Lectures committee which Dave heads brings various 
celebrities and non-celebrities to campus to give talks or debates 
on subject matter that students are interested in. Such events 
could include: A debate on music censorship, a well known au
thor giving a discussion, or even a member of Monty Python 
coming to campus to entertain students with his witty exploits. If 
you have any ideas for Dave, or just want to find out more about 
what lectures is and what lectures plans to do give AB a call.
Justin Pizzella: (AB Concerts Chairman) Justin is a senior 
studying policy management. Justins committee takes student 
input and compares this information against current concert 
availability lists. His committee examines prices and overall desireability of each artist and makes a selection. It is then the 
responsibility of the concert committee to review contracts, and 
oversee the completion of that contract. There are many facets to
what Justin does, give AB a call if your interested in what were 
doing and keep an eye out for upcoming concerts.
Tom Hoffman: (AB Concerts Chairman) Tom is in his first year 
with AB, but brings a strong musical backround with him. Tomwas selected as small concerts chairman due in part to a void 
that the Activities Board and the students saw. It was decided 
that the campus needed more smaller concerts which would 
expose students to a wider, more diversified range of music. It 
was with this intent that Toms position was created, and its 
with this intent that Tom selects bands to come to campus. If 
you have an idea on what type of music should be brought to 
campus let AB hear it.
Mike Flvnn: (Friday Films Chairman)
Tom Melia: (Sunday Fims Chairman)
Ben Schoenberg: (Thursday Films Chairman)
These three individuals became the films chairmen by demon
strating a superior knowledge of movies, and by expressing their 
desire to get involved. Each Films Chair is responsible for select
ing films for each semester. They make these selections based 
upon student input and film rental prices. Thursday films bases 
its selections on films which have some artistic importance. Of
ten Thursday films are intended to allow students to see the 
otherside of film making.
Friday films are usually the more popular, most recent 
releases. They are selected based upon movies that have box 
office success and overall appeal.
Sunday films are usually theme related. This semester 
Sunday films has such themes as Space, Horror, and Westerns. 
Other than selecting the films the chairman are also in charge of 
the cash boxes and tickets as well as the correspondance with 
the film companies. If you have questions on how the films com
mittee works, or wish to help out films by becoming a ticket 
taker give us a call.
Mark Patrick: (AB Treasurer) Mark is in his first full year as 
treasurer of AB, after taking over at the end of last year. Mark is 
a senior in operations research. The treasurer of AB works in 
close correspondence with the chairman to keep track of the 
organizations monies. The Treasurer is in large part responsible 
for the films income, and monitoring budgets and bills.
Christopher Smith: (Chairman) Chris is in his 3rd year with 
the Activities Board. Chris was formerly concert chairman. The 
job of the chairman is to monitor the AB budget, oversee the 
operation and success of events, run AB meetings, and commu
nicate to other organizations about what AB is doing. If you 
have any questions about AB in general, feel free to direct them 
to him.
melln
Information, Questions? Call.., 
AB phone # 2105 
AB Tech # 2104 
AB Films Hotline # FLMSmelln

---------------------------------------------------

AB Goals for the 1990-1991 School 
Year.....
1. Work with GSO to provide the student body 
with a new films sound system in DH 2210
2. Become more accessible to the campus, and 
involve other organizations in AB efforts.
3. Advertise events more often and make people 
more aware of AB programming, let people know 
what we do!
4. Program a more diverse range of acts.
5. Continue to work closely with SDC on films.
6. Use budgets wisely.
7. Attempt several new events this year (including 
campus talent show and a new Fall event that 
would involve all student organizations).
8. Make AB Special Events/Co-op ( our newest 
committee) a success.
9. Encourage many new people get involved with 
AB.
10. Create a regular coffeehouse schedule (ie. ev
ery other week, third week of the month).
11. Have monthly AB organizational meetings 
which include everyone associated with the or
ganization.
12. Bring back Airband this year.
Call Us...Ask Us...Join Us...
These Events Are Coming Up.....I *I AB Concerts: 
Monday 10/8
Kalamity Jane 
Tar
present musical 
entertainment1 ; . 1
8pm Ballroom1 i.
1 i
AB OPEN HOUSE
When: Tuesday the 18th 
(Tommorrow)
Where: Skibo Faculty 
Lounge @5:00
Why: To Discuss Our Goals
To Voice Your Opinion 
To Meet AB 
To Eat Free Food
This weeks films: 
Thursday:
Cinema Paradiso
Friday:
The Hunger
Sunday:
Close Encounters 
of the Third Kind
Thank a grad student 
today ...
with the help of 
GSO, AB will be 
installing a new 2210 sound system!
'AB Special Event:
Gzzorch Contest 
5 man teams ...
I:Tentative Date 
October 21st
AB Coffeehouse:
Saturday 10/13
Barb Schloff 
Accoustical Guitarist
Special Events 
Meetings:
Saturdays 4:30 
Skibo 210
Help program an event. 
Come up with an idea. 
You Have a vote...AB Meetings:
2nd Monday of the 
month @5:30 
Skibo rm. 12

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
Club sports need 6th floor support
A management strategy cham
pioned by former President Cyert 
calls for the clustering of resources 
in the few areas in which a group 
can excel. This strategy  called 
strategic advantage  has 
helped to quickly thrust the Uni
versity into national prominence.
The Universitys approach to 
athletics strongly resembles its 
approach to everything else. Var
sity sports receive most of the 
Universitys attention and sup
port, while club sports are left to 
haggle with Senate for the little 
funding it can afford to give.
This approach is based on the 
assumption that club sports are 
less important than varsity ones. 
In fact, they are of equal impor
tance at a university which treats 
sports as an extracurricular ac
tivity and not as a moneymaker.
John Harvey, director of athlet
ics, says that he thinks the clubs 
Complaints of being neglected by 
the University are justified. We 
agree and we want action.
, We applaud Vice President for 
Enrollment William Elliotts at-tempt last year to transfuse 
'$30,000 into the Athletic Depart
ment to help out club sports. Un
fortunately, the powers-that-were 
in Wamer Hall came through with 
only token support.
We want the University to com
mit to providing financial assis
tance to club sports and to making 
more of the resources we already 
have available to club sports.
Warner Halls sixth floor team 
may have to huddle and try a new 
play. Wed suggest the quarter
back sneak: presidential initia
tive to increase support for club 
sports.
Heres what wed like to see for 
club sports:
Access to training facilities, in
cluding the weight room in the 
West Wing;
 Time with trainers anddoctors, 
so that club players, too, can per
form at their peak;
Assistance in publicity, so the 
campus knows what all its teams 
are doing;
Financial assistance; and
Access to playing fields.
The administration is calling 
this a problem of resources. Lets 
open our eyes and call it what it 
really is: a problem of priorities.
Too little, too late on the quad
Although it has been lauded by 
.virtually everyone involved, we 
.think the Inter-Fraternity 
'Councils solution to its pledgenight scheduling problems de
serves a more critical look.
The problems stem from the fact 
that IFC scheduled pledge night 
,one ofthe most important nights 
of the year for fraternitiesright 
'on top of Yom Kippur  the most 
holy night of the Jewish year.
Last Thursday, IFC decided that 
it was too late to move pledge 
night. That decision has created a 
serious conflict for Jewish broth
ers and, far more importantly, for 
Jewish biddees.
c Traditionally, freshman year is 
^wrought with soul-searching 
questions. In our opinion, the 
fraternities have unfairly pres
sured Jewish pledge candidates.
On September 28, they will be 
torn between religious convictions 
theyre possibly questioning and 
fraternal obligations theyre be.ginning to form. Its not easy to be 
the new member of a tightly-knit 
group, and standing out as a 
'member of a minority in such cir'cumstances makes it all the more 
difficult.
THE TARTAN
Editor-in-Chief.........
Managing Editor.....
Business Manager.
.....Howdy Pierce
.Michael T. Rose 
........Frank DiVito
News Editor..............
Asst. News Editors .
Forum Editor............
Sports Editor...........
Asst. Sports Editor . 
Features Editor.......
....Nicole Brockmann
................David Ladek
Rhonda Struminger
............Susan Abrams
........Katie Culbertson
........Jason McDonald
.. Dexter T. Kobayashi
Asst. Features Editor...................Trupti Patel
Diversions Editor...................Stephen Glicker
Asst. Diversions Editors ...Dawn Brosonski 
Terri Kasch
Calendar Editor..............Daniel DeGrandpre
Magazine Editor................Jennifer Kersteln
Asst. Magazine Editor................Alison Green
Dossier Literary Editor.................Jack Sllbert
Dossier Design Editor...............Chris Shields
Art Editor......................
Asst. Art Editor...........
Photo Editor................
Photo Staff Manager.. 
Darkroom Manager.... 
Production Manager... 
Copy Manager.............
..William C. Sabram
.........Kristina Boinis
......Tad Dockstader
....Ignatius Sasmita
......D.A. Henderson
........Beth A. Moses
...................Alim Ray
Contributing Editors:
Kevin Barney 
Grant Charmlchael 
Michael J. Ewedosh 
Nathan Fullerton 
Jonathan Levy 
Thomas Nichols
William Burky 
James B. Endres 
Dustin Frazier 
Farron W. Levy 
Eric McAnallen 
Natalie Peterson
Don Pickett
Carnegie Mellon Universitys student newspaper since 1906
Tho Tnrtnn Is tho student nawspapor o! Carneglo Mellon Univer
sity. It is a woekly newspaper published by students during the (all 
and spring semesters, at no cost to members o( the University 
community. It is printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing,Inc. 
Subscriptionsareavailabloforthesemesteroracademicyear. The 
Editorials appearing at the beginning ol the opinion section are the 
official opinion ot Tho Tartan editorial board. Columns are the 
opinions ol individual authors. Letters to tho Editor are opinions 
o( authors who are usually, but not necessarily members ol the 
University community. A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan re
serves the right to condense or reject any letter or column. Copyright  1990 by Tho Tartan. The Tartan editorial board reserves 
tho right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for pub
lication.
Office: Skibo 50 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 /
Carnegie Mellon University /
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890 
Funded by the Activities Fee.
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.
Its a serious problem, one that 
should not have been taken lightly 
by IFC. Official statements aside, 
it seems thats exactly what the 
group has done.
Were surprised that nobody in 
IFC gave the High Holidays a 
second thought when the group 
was scheduling rush last spring.
But the fact that the scheduling 
was an honest oversight doesnt 
explain why IFC dragged its feet 
until now. The conflict was first 
brought up by Alpha Epsilon Pi 
President Evan Indianer at an 
IFC meeting last May. Why didnt 
the quad address it until its sec
ond meeting this year?
IFC insists  and we believe  
that it was not acting out of antiSemitism. Clearly, however, it was 
acting out of ignorance.
Yes, the group has amended its 
bylaws so that the scheduling 
problem wont be repeated in the 
future, and we appreciate the ef
fort.
But its a classic case of too 
little, too late that forces CMUs 
Greek community to wait a full 
year before recognizing its obli
gation to all the members of the 
campus community.
Career Center 
acknowledges 
holiday clash
Os
5eMMei M, 
Mne fksM,i
Editor:
The Career 
Center is cooper
ating with Tau 
Beta Pi in spon
soring a graduate 
school fair in the Skibo Ballroom 
Thursday, September 20. This date 
falls upon the observance of Rosh 
Hashanah.
Tau Beta Pi and the Career Cen
ter profoundly apologize to the 
Jewish community on campus for 
scheduling this event on that day. 
For the benefit of those students 
who choose not to attend this event, 
descriptive literature, applications 
and contact information for the 
participating schools will be avail
able in the Career Center, Room 19, 
Warner Hall.
J. Dennis Ryan 
Director, Career Center
IFC apologizes for conflict 
with Rush and Yom Kippur
5eMMei M, 
Mne fksM,i
fksM,iH 00*
It has come to the 
attention of the Greek 
community that due to 
a gross and inexcusable 
oversight, the end offall 
Rush coincides with the Jewish holiday 
ofYom Kippur. We would like to offer our 
sincerest apologies to individuals who 
are affected and offended by this conflict, 
and assure the students of Camegie 
Mellon that such an affront will never 
again occur. We hope that this incident 
will not permanently discolor your feel
ings about the Greek way of life.
We were unable to reschedule Rush for 
this year, because of the late date at 
which this oversight was brought to our 
attention, and because Homecoming is 
the weekend following Rush. However, 
we have taken steps to prevent a recur
rence by amending the IFC by-laws. The 
duties of the rush chairman now explic
itly include the responsibility of avoid
ing conflicts with the dates of holidays of 
various denominations, as well as major
r/
pXX *
xX
campus events such as Homecoming.
We firmly believe that the Greek sys
tem is a valuable institution, and can 
respond flexibly to accommodate any 
problems which this may caus. The 
Greek community is aware of the prob
lem if this conflict affects you, please 
approach someone in the appropriate 
house, and they will make arrangements 
to meet your needs.
Again, we apologize for our negligence, 
and will do our best to avoid similar 
situations in the future.
August J. Moret 
IFC Rush Chairman
U.S. is implicated in 'threat to world peace
Os
5eMMei M, 
Mne fksM,i
Editor:
In his best amateur 
night impersonation of 
Henry Kissinger,
David Schwartz advo
cates launching a 
powerful military offensive against 
Iraqs Saddam Hussein as the only con
ceivable strategy for restoring the world 
peace so inconveniently interrupted by 
Iraqs invasion of Kuwait [Meet the 
newest threat to world peace, 9/10]. 
WhatMr. Schwartz doesnt tell youis that 
the recent instabilities in the Persian 
Gulf follow largely from a confused, con
tradictory, self-serving and mercenary 
U.S. foreign policy  one marked by an 
hysterical commitment to preserving 
overseas U.S. corporate hegemony.
Like much of the right-wing represen
tation of world events that have come to 
dominate U.S. mass media, Mr. 
Schwartzs column is rife with lies and 
distortions. He claims that George Bush 
has received strong and solid support 
from Americans during the crisis, and 
yet, he is predictably evasive when it 
comes to the question of what, precisely, 
Americans are in support of. (An official 
denunciation of Iraqi military interven
tion in Kuwait? Economic sanctions?The 
deployment of an international peace
keeping force? Saturation bombing of 
major Iraqi population centers?) Appar
ently, Mr. Schwartz regards simplistic 
public opinion polls in the age of 
infotainment and 30-second mediabites 
as acceptable grounds for justifyingmajor 
foreign policy decisions. Need I mention 
the last time Americans were as sup
portive of a presidential decision to de
ploy military forces in a foreign country? 
The year was 1964, the country, Viet
nam. In a century which has brought us 
Please see THREAT, page 12
Wrong accusations of writer had libellous tones
O*Editor;
Lets have three 
cheers, a standing ova
tion, and a 21-gun saLetter tO 
lute for Patryk Silver! the Edjt()r 
I was ecstatic to read 
Mr. Silvers letter in last weeks Tartan 
[JFK article suffers from historical 
amnesia, 9/10], because I have finally 
found someone who agrees with me.
That last sentence probably came as a 
real shocker, especially to Mr. Silver.
However, I can prove my point by quot
ing both my original column and his 
letter.
I am accused by Mr. Silver of having a 
marginal familiarity with the history 
of the United States and the effects our 
nations policies have had on other 
peoples, nations, ethnic groups, commu
nities and political movements around 
the world. In my column I wrote: Our 
past experiences have shown us that we 
cannot give freedom and democracy as a
gift. Every time we have tried to, we have 
failed.
Yes, Mr. Silver, I know that American 
foreign policy has been a disaster at 
times. Not many of our foreign interven
tions have been the best way to do things, 
even though our intentions might have 
been good. Mr. Silvers accusations about 
my supposed lack of knowledge and indepth analysis are false.
In respect to my views on world affairs, 
Please see LIBEL, page 12
Commitment is the mark of interest, not of apathy
o*
5eMMei M, 
Mne fksM,i
Editor:
I have been maligned 
by The Tartan last 
week [Neighbor plans 
restructuring for Stu
dent Senate, 9/10].
Both the story by David Ladek and the 
editorial described me as having an apa
thetic attitude towards Student Senate, 
and blamed me for the problems that 
Senate has had in the past. Those accu
sations are unjustified. I have never taken 
my obligations to the students and Senate 
lightly, and my reason for joining Senate 
is because I am willing to serve, not 
because I am apathetic.
The day before last semesters elec
tions, The Tartan printed that there was 
not going to be a candidate on the ballot 
for MCS senator. I feel strongly that 
Senate can be an important part of stu
dent life, but this will happen only if it is 
made up of people willing to work. If no 
one else was willing to serve, I would. 
Thus, I decided to run as a write-in 
candidate.
To my surprise, I was elected. While I 
admit to not having a specific agenda 
before being elected, I am committed to 
discharging my responsibilities effec
tively. I never intended merely to wait 
out my term of office so I could say I was 
a Senator. I do have a commitment to 
improving this college, and I do under
stand that the job requires work and 
time.
I resent being singled out as an example 
of apathy. If I had looked at the empty 
ballot and said, It doesnt matter because 
Senate is useless, that would have been 
apathy. Apathy is ignoring problems 
because Im too busy, or I cant do
anything about it. The label apathy 
goes to those people who did not care 
enough to run or even to vote. I saw a 
problem and acted to solve it. I got in
volved. I donated my time and energy 
towards improving the college.
I also object to having my motives 
judged in a news story written by a 
reporter who did not bother to contact 
me personally before he decided I was 
apathetic. What I said, I stand by. I am 
a Senator because it appeared to me that 
no one else was willing to make the 
commitment. I knew that I could do a 
competent, conscientious job, and I feltit 
was important enough that we needed 
someone who would be responsible.
Michael A. Gelman 
Junior, MCS 
Student Senate

---------------------------------------------------

rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSpS
Plastics are more monster than miracle
Plastic: the miracle of the mod
em age. With the toughness of 
steel, the transparency of glass, 
and the flexibility of aluminum, 
plastic has become the most di
versely-used product of this day 
and age. From bags to buildings, 
from toothbrushes to telecommu
nication satellites, from Saran 
Wrap to space shuttles, plastic 
overwhelmingly touches our daily 
lives.
I could go on and on expounding 
the joys of plastic, but I wont. You 
see, plastic has a darker, more 
evil side to its nature. It has the 
tendency to hang around for a 
long, long time. On the order of three to seven centuries. The 
plastic housing on the computer 
that I type this article on will 
outlive me, my children, and my 
grandchildren. And we now have 
millions upon millions of tons of 
plastic that will outlive us all.
We have not created a miracle; 
we have created a monster.
Hold it right there, you may 
say. Before you continue exhort
ing the dangers of plastic, ask 
yourself: What else are we going 
to brush our teeth with? What
Carrnae giiMrinM
else are we supposed to wrap our 
leftovers in, or fly our kites with? 
Plastic has become of vital impor
tance to our society. Dont the 
benefits of plastics justify the 
costs?
In my opinion, the answer is no. 
I agree that our society could not 
exist in its present state without 
plastic because it is so useful. 
However, we need to do something. We need to stop the grow
ing hordes of plastic.
Well, you say, how about recy
cling? If all the plastic were re
cycled, then we wouldnt have to 
make more plastic. Right? Right. 
However, were still stuck with a 
lot of plastic. For plastic is not 
destroyed in the recycling pro
cess; it is merely converted from 
one form to another. If the world, 
through recycling, could be selfsufficient on plastic, we would
Learn to appreciate 
your freedoms now
loa Unvoanst y,Pban 
Uuuh1 7i,nMP,t
Its amazing what we take 
for granted these days. Have 
you ever made a mental list of 
all the things we really 
wouldnt appreciate until we 
didnt have them anymore? I 
have, and the liberties and 
freedoms granted to us by the-j 
Constitution heads my list.
Can you imagine what it 
would be like if the police had 
the right to arbitrarily break 
up peaceful demonstrations? I 
dont care whether the demon
stration was carried out by prochoicers, the Ku Klux Klan, 
CMU Out, or any other organi
zation. I might not agree with 
them, but Im glad they all 
have an undeniable right to 
champion their causes.
Can you imagine what it 
would be like to be denied de
cent health care or an educa
tion? In many Third World 
nations, the government does 
just that. Oppressive govern
ments see every citizen as a 
potential revolutionary. To 
them, as many unhealthy and 
illiterate citizens as possible is 
the best-case scenario  they 
cant question what they have 
no basic concept of, and they 
cant rise up in resistance 
against their oppressor if they 
are physically weak.
Can you imagine what it 
would be like to be allocated a 
position in society; if the gov
ernment could arbitrarily 
search you and your posses
sions just to check up on you; if 
the government was foresworn 
to protect one religion; if a 
woi;nan from the slums was 
forbidden to marry a man from 
the upper class; to be invaded 
by a foreign power and have 
everythinghomes, jobs, and 
rights  taken away?
All of these things have taken 
or are taking place in many 
nations around the world. I be
lieve that freedom in the United 
States is stronger than ever, 
but the threats to begin re
stricting it are growing. The 
debates over abortion rights 
and flag burning take center 
stage right now. It is a national 
tragedy how we all take our 
freedom for granted because 
we all want to believe that it 
couldnt happen here; that no 
one could take our freedoms 
away from us.
The Constitution will protect 
us so long as we understand it. 
If we can only imagine what it 
would be like to be truly op
pressed, then we can find a 
deeper sense of appreciation 
about our own state of being. If 
we stop believing that freedom 
is invincible, we will be well on 
the road to preserving it for 
ourselves and spreading it to 
all humanity.
Allan Bourdius is a sophomore applied history major.
Parking  University Center  Greeks  Student Involvment 0 Student Senate 
\thletic Facilities  Womens Issues  Enrollment  Student Health  Banking 
Politics  Funding  Football Field  Student Affairs  Constitution  Construction 
Dvercrowding  Contras # Housing  Sororities 0 Charities 0 Gymnasium  Dining 
Service  Environment  Recycling  Exercise  Congress  Middle East  Weathej 
I* Sex  Geeks  Alcohol  Drugs * Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  
Advertising Disco Crime  All 
^ ' .1, sjKMWiE&s  Howdy1.
Co^P^^^ MicHHst Se^^^Wns ^Kohol
ay Rights  Drugs  Budget  Music 0 Mighty Mouse  Comedy  The Flag  Wood} 
\llen  Funding  Student Affairs  Mayor  Construction  Track Field  Overcrowd 
ng  Constitution  Activities Board  Gymnasium 0 Housing  Sororities  Charities
* Dining Service  Environment  Recycling  Congress  Club Sports  Middle East
* Weather  Advising  Crime  Sex  Geeks  Corruption  Violence  Alcohol  Drugs 
' Music  Mighty Mouse  Comedy  Woody Allen  Funding  Student Affairs 
Letters to the Editor  Deadline Friday 5 pm 
Skibo 50
NORMAL VOLUNTEERS
Male Subjects in good health between ages 18-45 are 
needed for a study testing a new eye medication.
Earn $150
are
wConducted by The Eye & Ear Institute of Pittsburgh w 
For more information call 647-7647
still have all the plastic that the 
world has now. Which is a lot.
Hmmm.... Ive heard a lot about 
biodegradable and photodegradable plastics, you say. Will this 
work? The answer is not always. 
Biodegradable plastic has little 
bits of stuff incorporated into the 
polymers that are yummy to cer
tain microorganisms.
Unfortunately, the landfills that 
this country uses have plastic lin
ers to block seepage of rotting 
garbage into the groundwater and 
soil. This same liner also keeps 
out the bugs that find plastic 
yummy. Photodegradable plastic 
needs light and about thirty days 
before it will start to decompose. 
Garbage is never on the top of the 
landfill for that long. The photo
degradable plastic is quickly bur
ied by layers of earth and other 
garbage. It never has a chance to 
decompose.
Well, then, you say, how about 
burning plastic? Dont certain 
types of plastic bum safely? Yes. 
In fact, 80 percent of plastic pro
duced today can be burned safely
 in addition to producing twice 
as much energy as high-grade
coal. However, the problem lies 
with the other 20 percent. If these 
plastics are accidentally burned, 
they could emit toxic gases and 
carcinogens. Also, public support 
for incinerators does not run high. 
Try telling your neighbor that an 
incinerator which will spew forth 
gases is going to be built next to 
his or her house. He or she will 
not be amused.
Alas, you sigh, then there re
mains only one other alternative
 stop using plastic. And indeed 
this solution is the most effective 
one.
There are simple things we can 
do to stop the glut of plastic. If 
youre only buying a few items at 
the store, request that you not 
have a plastic bag. Recycle all the 
available plastic. Dont buy prod
ucts that are wrapped in layers 
upon layers of plastic. If there is a 
reasonable substitute for a prod
uct but uses less plastic in the 
packaging, buy it. These and more 
are just little things that we can 
do to help save this earth.
Jeffrey Woodford is a freshman in CIT.
THE ELECTRONIC DRUG
PUTTar tnAsA porr-distada
(Herblock is on vacation)
Freshmen need to learn good study habits early on
Okay. I managed to coast 
through high school on pure 
natural ability. The question is, 
can I do that here?
The question has already been 
answered: No way.
I just got my first quiz back 
today from my Cognitive Pro
cesses TA. Ooof. I havent gotten 
a grade like that for quite a few 
years. Especially considering that 
I actually studied the material.
I would not be at all surprised 
to hear that most freshmen (at 
least those in H&SS) are having 
the same problems. I limit the 
group to H&SS students for one 
reasonthe intensity of the work 
in the other colleges is far higher 
than in H&SS. Not, however, that 
the work in H&SS isnt hard. Far 
from it, in fact. I feel this way 
because many of the guys on my 
floor are not in H&SS, and they 
do not ever seem to stop working. 
On the other hand, my roommate 
and I (hes a Philosophy major) 
are lazy sacks in comparison.
U-v-h7na1Mh1 Svpaaue
This is not helping us. Going 
back to the example of my room
mate, he stayed in all day one 
day, not going to even one class. 
Well, he did start to leave the 
building for the Cognitive Pro
cesses lecture, but he came back 
before he reached the front door. 
I, on the other hand, go to class, do 
my homework, and still do poorly 
on these quizzes. Other people I 
know had multiple tests today, 
and did not study or could not 
bring themselves to.
This is all attributable to the 
fact that many of the incoming 
freshmen did not gain proper 
study h abits in high sch o ol. I kn o w 
that this is true in my case, and I 
suspect it in my roommates as 
well.
I have to wonder whether or not 
th e majority of us will still be here 
next year. How many people are 
out there contemplating trans
ferring? How many are like my 
next-door neighbor, who seems to 
have been extremely lucky so far 
in that he has not gone to one 
class yet, except for tests, and 
still does well. And how many of 
those lucky people, like my 
neighbor, are going to see their 
luck go straight down the tubes?
The freshman class at this 
school has got to learn where it is. 
Even if you think you wont be 
here in a semester, or think you 
want to transfer already, the 
grades will make you or break 
you.
All of us, including me, have to 
realize that the rest of our lives 
are at stake here, and that the 
slightest little slip could ruin eveiything. As those who are in ca
reer tracks, like the dramats or 
the architects, already know, the 
pressure is on.
I predict that the weeding-out 
process will begin sometime in 
the middle of next week, when (as j 
far as I am concerned) it is time to j 
pay the piper and start getting! 
actual grades. From my point of j 
view, these first real grades will} 
be what , start the minds of the; 
freshman class as a whole work-| 
ing in the direction of improving; 
their study skills. Anything would; 
be an improvement, from working! 
a set length of time in the library! 
every night to studying diligently 
every day.
Perhaps with a little help from 
student government, a program 
could be instituted that would 
help us learn to study better.
The pressure mustbe metby an 
equal and opposite reaction, one! 
that will work positively and bring 
the class to its collective senses, 
awakening us all to the realities 
of college academics.
Brendan McFeely is a freshman in H&SS.
Indifference to the latest sexual knowledge can hurt you
The Kinsey Reportthe latest 
report on the sexual knowledge of 
Americans is out, and it shows 
that many of us are fumbling in 
the dark.
The Kinsey Report findings 
show that there is a lack of basic 
knowledge about one of the 
nations favorite pastimes. The 
ignorance isnt just in areas that 
most of us might consider frivo
lous a man can have an orgasm 
without an erection  but in ar
eas that could be considered sen
sitive  most impotence can be 
cured  and areas that could 
have potentially disastrous con
sequences  a woman can get 
pregnant during her period.
A lot of the ignorance can be
mi1 9Pv0acc
traced to the lack of real sex edu
cation in the schools. Always a 
sensitive topic, comprehensive sex 
education has only become wide
spread recently.
Unfortunately, despite the 
presence of sex education in the 
schools, it is still a hotly debated 
topic. Some claim  and it would 
be easy to blame all the problems 
on the more fundamental/con
servative people out there, but
that isnt fair  that sex educa
tion is bad, because it encourages 
promiscuity in younger people. 
They say that teenagers dont 
have the maturity, the ability, or 
the mental stability to handle the 
information. The feeling is that 
teenagers just arent adult 
enough.
The Kinsey Report, however, 
blows that out of the water. The 
report shows that many adults 
are acting with out the knowledge, 
the information, and hey, lets not 
kid ourselves, the maturity so of
ten supposed upon. them.
Kinsey shows what happens 
when the information is not given 
out, when people are not honest 
with their children. The children
grow up and go out into the world 
withoutknowingjust what theyre 
doing.
The protection of children, th e 
sheltering of them from what re
ally happens out there, is not 
.merely irresponsible, but damn 
near criminal. There is a mini
epidemic of STDs among teenag
ers, and AIDS still eludes all the 
best efforts of anyone looking for 
a cure, a vaccine, or answers. 
Protecting is not protection, it is 
criminal negligence.
The times have changed. Not 
having the right information can 
be deadly.
Don Pickett is a sophomore creative writing major.
InsightTutoring Services persent: 
INSIGHT for the LSAT
Comprehensive, Expert Theory.
 Live instruction in a relaxed, on-campus setting. 
dUrrinMhGua tuition includes all homework nad 
practice materials.
Guaranteed Results. No-Hassle Refund. Free 
Course Repeats.
Call 481-5980 for more information.
JOBS
When reading about it is no longer enough, 
help change the course of Environmental 
Politics.
CLEAN WATER ACTION
765-3053 
$7- $12 per hour 
Flexible, part time
The latest looks for 
him and her. Soft 
and shaped. Up
dated. Now. Cuts 
that move with body 
and volume. Sophis
ticated style from 
our experts.
EXPECTATIONS
GET WHAT you EXPECT_______________________1: -----
237 Atwood St. 687-3500 Mon-Fri 10-7
Across the street fromjhe Oakland Post Office >at 9-6
r ~ S2T0O~Off~ ~ Free Hair Consultation
| On a Precision Haircut I ipprmV,ailable: . Frostina(complete with wash & style) Perms nOSling
I Expires 9/30/90 I  9?irrn,n?j nimSn MUST HAVE COUPON__J SATISFACTION GUARANTEED

---------------------------------------------------

University Relations invites you to attend:
Whats New at 
Carnegie Mellon
An informal discussion of news and 
helpful information.
rnzi0kgDE uehMm ap
Noon-1 p.m.
West Wing of the New 
Residence Hall
Pat Keating, vice president for business affairs and 
university planning, will discuss campus construction 
and other key issues affecting campus.
Mark your calendars for these 
upcoming sessions:
rnzi0kgDE uehMm ab
1-2 p.m.
ITC Conference Room, 
UCC 2nd floor
OisMei'0 9y,VCuMDye zske0
Practical tips on how to be a better writer and editor. 
Discuss the use of writing style guides to help define 
the best formats for invitations, advertisements, bro
chure copy, feature articles, interoffice correspon
dence, etc. Review the current university style guide, 
now undergoing revision and expansion.
rze0kgDE 4VMm SOngM'0 3e8 gM Ugilevse teyy,l
Noon-1 p.m.An informal discussion of news and helpful information.
Training Room A, SEI
-iskgDE 4VMm Patgsyslv PpP
9-11 a.m.Practical tips on how to plan and prepare campus
ITC conference room,mailings or alumni mailings.
UCC 2nd floor
t,lkgDE 4VMm Pq
1-2 p.m.
; Baker Hall 355
OisMei'0 9y,VCYe0LM,h Iz7ys0nslv
Practical tips on how to be a better writer and editor 
using desktop publishing.
1990 
HOMECOMING KING AND QUEEN 
NOMINATIONS
IN FRONT OF OR INSIDE DOHERTY HALL
FRIDAY, SEPT. 21, 1990 10AM TO 4PM
ALL STUDENTS ARE WELCOME TO NOMINATE
QUALIFICATIONS OTHER THAN POPULARITY:
-> ACTIVE IN CAMPUS AND/OR COMMUNITY AFFAIRS 
-> HAVE SPECIAL TALENTS OR ABILITIES I.E. SPORTS, MUSICAL INSTRUMENT, ETC..
WINNERS WILL BE CROWNED AT THE 
HOMECOMING GAME AT THE NEW 
STADIUM, SATURDAY OCT. 6, 1990. 
VOTING WILL BE HELD ON FRIDAY, SEPT. 28,1990 
COORDINATED BY SARC.
I t,
IfJoin Chabad House for 
The High Holidays
ran
MrMLrv~\
Rosh Hashanah (The Jewish New Year): 
Wednesday, Sept. 19 to Friday, Sept. 21 
Yom Kippur: Friday, Sept. 28 to Saturday, Sept. 29
Schedule of Traditional High Holiday Services on campus:
J,0n Rg0nglgn
uehM PS Oekle0kgD Zpp It f;elslv uei;sVe0 gM Mne -gVzyMD Yslslv
J,,1 sl uLs7, gM UtB 
uehM ap rnzi0kgD Spp xt t,ilslv uei;sVe0 gM Mne teyy,l .l0MsMzMe
U,l2eielVe J,,1H B0e Mne 9eyy2seyk 
uMieeM flMiglVe M, teyy,l .l0MsMzMe 
Zpp It f;elslv uei;sVe0 gM Mne -gVzyMD Yslslv 
J,,1 sl uLs7,
uehM aP -iskgD Spp xt t,ilslv uei;sVe0 gM Mne teyy,l .l0MsMzMe
U,l2eielVe J,,1
&,1 |shhzi
uehM aZ -iskgD Qqp It |,y 3skies glk f;elslv uei;sVe0 gM
OneiieMM J,,1 sl uLs7, 
uehM aS ugMzikgD Pppp xt uei;sVe0 gM OneiieMM J,,1 sl uLs7,
All Services will be followed by Free Holiday Meals 
For More Information, please contact: 
Rabbi Shmuel and Sara Weinstein 
(412) 683-7770

---------------------------------------------------

rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSpPP
Husseins name spells trouble for the future
mhbPM KvowhncT
Yet another week has passed in 
the Persian Gulf crisis and there 
seems to be a new status quo. 
Literally, it is nothing less than a 
larger Iraq. Kuwait, having been 
declared annexed by Iraq several 
weeks ago, is still in Iraqs posses
sion, and what has the world 
community done?
As you very well know by now, 
the United States is amassing 
troops and military equipment 
daily, along with accruing a sub
stantial debt in the process, and 
the embargo initiated and 
wholeheartedly supported by 
the United Nations is steadily 
taking a toll on Saddam Hussein. 
We know this because Iraqi T.V. 
is showing the overly-conscious 
and lamentable West pictures of 
dying Iraqi babies in dire situa
tions because of a lack of desper
ately needed food and medication. 
Well, Hussein told me, lets drop
the embargo and pull out, our job 
is done. Hell, while we are at it, 
lets let Hussein keep Kuwait (he 
did say that Kuwait is historically 
part of Iraq) as a token of our 
desire for peace and maybe, we 
should pay some sort of reparation 
to him for the duress that we put 
him and his peace-loving nation 
through.
Id better cease this overindulgent attempt at sarcasm and get 
on with the story. What is going 
on with the rest of the world?!? 
Already, Iraq is mending the ex
tremely tenuous relations with 
Iran; Tehran is already saying 
that it will be sending humani
tarian aid. The Philippines, In
dia, and other eastern nations 
are sending aid (purportedly to 
their own people trapped in Iraq 
and Kuwait).
What kind of message is the 
world sending to Hussein? Are we 
telling him that despite the fact 
that he invaded a sovereign na
tion we are willing to assist him 
anyway, no matter what he has 
done?
It has been said that Cuba and 
Yemen, both members of the 
United Nations security council,
"What kind of message is the world 
sending to Hussein? Are we telling 
him that despite the fact that he in
vaded a sovereign nation we are will
ing to assist him anyway, no matter 
what he has done?
are ready to end the embargo and 
sanctions against Iraq. The news 
doesnt get any better.
Since the invasion of Kuwait, 
the U.S. State Department, with 
its less-than-flawless track record 
of heeding warnings and creating 
flimsy alliances with other nations 
during crisis, has enlisted the 
support of moderate Arab na
tions. Does Hafez al-Assad ring a 
bell? Although vehemently op
posed to Hussein, Assad has, and 
maintains, a track record of hu
man rights violations tantamount 
to Husseins.
A recent report by the Human 
Rights Watch shows that over the 
past several years, Assad has tor
tured 1,000 to 2,000 people, per
secuted Syrian Jews, Kurds, and 
Palestinians, imprisoned opposi
tion groups, wrought immense 
destruction to areas of Lebanon 
that it has controlled, not to 
mention the many deaths that 
resultedfrom that aggression and, 
in the early 1980s, Syria murdered 
10,000 individuals in opposition 
to Assad. The U.S. still labels 
Syria as a major supporter and 
exporter of terrorism.This is our new moderate Arab 
ally. Can it get any worse than 
this? Of course. Will it get worse? 
Probably.
Stay tuned.
David Schwartz is a sophomore economics major.
IRAQI DESERT GUIDE
(Herblock is on vacation)
SADDAM HUSSEIN LAYS DOWN 
ANOTHER SOLEMN PROMISE
 VV ^
^ w . (Herblock is on vacation)
Hussein may not be a threat to peace after all
by the events of Eastern Europe.
LjM,
B,P KPao
The Iraqi invasion of the poor 
defenseless country of Kuwait in 
early August has presented a wide 
range of problems to the rest of 
the world. Since the summer of 
1989, after the Tianamen massa
cre of pro-democracy students in 
China, the world has experienced 
a world-wide political revolution 
in which the totalitarian Com
munist countries experienced 
profound changes in their politi
cal system. Influenced by the 
perestroika movement in the So
viet Union and the Chinese expe
rience, a great awakening of the 
human mind and spirit swept 
across Eastern Europe. The Com
munist block crumbled like the 
Berlin Wall, and a heady wave of 
optimism permeated the world 
scene.
However, the rude awakening 
administered by Saddam Hussein 
in the Middle East has spoiled 
much of the goodwill generated
by the events of Eastern Europe. 
The problem posed in the form of 
Hussein, however, is ablessingin 
disguise. This was a reminder, 
albeit a very unpleasant one, to 
people all over the world that 
peace is a never-endingbattle and 
should never be.
To paraphrase Edmund Burke, 
For evil to triumph, it merely 
takes good men to do nothing. 
Countries can never become lax 
in the fight against tyranny and 
despotism.
Another problem that Hussein 
brought to light was the fact that 
with the destruction of a bi-polar 
world, many forces have the po. tential to become unleashed. With 
the two major superpowers 
breaking down the barriers of the 
Cold War, the result will see the 
worldbecomedominatedby multi
polarity. Nations will no longer 
feel any restraint in pursuing 
their own national interests which 
used to be partly defined by which 
sphere of influence they belonged 
to. Europe during the eighteenth 
and nineteenth centuries is an 
example of multi-polarity. Peace 
during this period was problem
atic. As it so happened, the result 
of the European power of balance
While many people agree that 
Hussein is a cruel despot... we ought
he has presented 
understanding....
to take the chance 
to ... seek a better
system was World War I.
There are many nations such as 
Iraq with leaders such as Saddam 
Hussein in the world today who 
make peace much more difficult 
to maintain. Previously, in the bi
polar world, the immense de
structive power of the United 
States and the Soviet Union was 
often an effective deterrent to 
warfare and helped to maintain 
peace. Now that this nuclear 
umbrella has disappeared, na
tions are under no obligation to 
obey either the U.S. or the 
U.S.S.R.
Many nations still have strong 
nationalistic tendencies that are 
always a threat to democracies 
and peace. Nations such as Pa
kistan, Israel, Iraq, and Iran are 
countries that need to be watched 
carefully. The Pakistan vs. India 
conflict may yet flare up again
now that the Soviet influence has | 
decreased and the world may see ! 
a few wars  one or maybe two i 
wars in the Middle East and ar - ! 
other in Asia.
While many people agree ths t J 
Hussein is a cruel despot who--, 
should be eliminated, we ought t o 1 
take the chance he has presented * 
to re-evaluate the geo-political ; 
situation and seek a better un) 
derstanding of the events of the j 
past year and its possible effect. ; 
Luckily we have lessons from th e ; 
past to help answer some of the j 
questions and problems posed by j 
this new world system. Hopefully, { 
Saddam Hussein is merely an  
aberration and the world may | 
continue to have the peace it enj 
joyed for forty-five years.
Lui Sieh is a senior applied his! tory major.
Newcomers to a place need time 
for adjustment to find their niche
An observation: Is it just me, or 
have other students noticed that 
here at Carnegie Mellon we, par
ticularly freshman, have been 
doing more than going to our 
classes?
In one way or another, we have 
each been looking for someone or 
somethingto latch onto, some way 
to belong. I am not saying its 
everybody, because its not  
there are always exceptions, 
though I am not one of them. A lot 
of us just have not found our 
niche yet.
I have seen this problem in my
self as well. I came to school feeling 
pretty secure. I had friends from 
the summer CMAP program who 
I knew I would hook up with. I 
felt comfortable with the campus 
and thought everything would be 
fine. Therefore, I had no problem, 
right?
Wrong!!!
I started off the year practi
cally destroying a friendship I 
had from the summer program. 
% face was the first one my friend 
saw in the morning, other than 
the expected roommates face, and 
the last face that my friend saw at 
night. It really does not matter 
how strong a friendship you have
no friendship is strong enough 
to take even that for a very long
ft.
JonPtcPh1 gPuuPhft
time.
Fortunately, I met some new 
people and started balancing out 
my time so I could be with all of 
them. Now things between me 
and my friend are fine, but I al
most ruined a great friendship 
with someone who means a hell of 
a lot to'me.
There is one thing many of us 
seem to be doing, and that is look
ing for a special relationship. We 
are all looking for it in everyone 
we meet. When we meet someone, 
we are not looking at it as a pos
sible friendship, but as a possible 
relationship. Then, as is the case 
for many of us, when we see there 
isnt a relationship there, we move 
on. In other cases, we come on so 
strong that we chase the other 
person away.
There are quite a few reasons 
why we do this. In the case of a 
new person arriving at school who 
already knows some people on 
campus, its natural to want to 
spend a lot of time with them,
even if you are comfortable with 
the school. Its easier and safer for 
you to stay with them, whereas 
trying to make new friends is 
tough, and, in a way, emotionally 
dangerous.
For those of you who are new 
to the school, you are all in an 
unfamiliar place with strangers 
all around you. Some of you are 
away from home for the first time, 
and have to do things you have 
never done before: laundry, bud
geting, checking up on yourself, 
and so on. Given that, it is not 
very surprising that you are look
ing for a way to reproduce the 
feelings of safety and security you 
had at home. Nor is it wrong to do 
so.
The only time it becomes a 
problem is when you push those 
feelings of security too far. This 
does not help things at all. Most 
of the time this ends up making a 
tough situation even worse for 
you or someone else.
If you should happen to find 
fault with what I have said, re
member, I dont make 'value 
judgements.
I just observe.
Christian Williams is a freshman in H&SS. This is his first column for The Tartan.
The world is waiting. Be an exchange student
Step into an adventure filled with opportunities and challenges. As part of International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, you live abroad with your new host family. Learn new skills. Go to new schools. Make new friends.Young people from all segments of American society are being selected. If youd like to be one of them,, write for more information on programs, costs and financial aid.Help bring th world together, one friendship at a time.
Sx!A message from The Advertising Council and The International Youth Exchange.

---------------------------------------------------

Parne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSp
Threat to world peace implicates the U.S. government
THREAT, from page 8
historys greatest atrocities in the 
interests of satiating blood
thirsty nationalism, public opin
ion would seem a dubious criterion 
for initiating a military conflict 
that places millions of lives and 
Millions of dollars at stake.
' Mr. Schwartz mentions that the 
tJnited Nations supports a U.S. 
military enforcement of an eco
nomic embargo. What he doesnt 
say is that for years the U.N. 
Security Council and General 
Assembly have been passing vir
tually unanimous resolutions 
which the U.S. has repeatedly 
and systematically ignored, op
posed, or vetoed (including the 
universal condemnation of the 
U.S. invasions of Panama and 
Grenada, and the bombing of 
Libya). Only now, in a refreshingly 
onest display of shameless oportunism, is the U.S. consensus 
evidence of moral righteousness.
Mr. Schwartz claims that Ku
wait was and legally still is ... a 
sovereign state. In fact, the state
of Kuwait did not materialize 
magically overnight by some 
stroke of collective democratic 
will; rather it was invented as a 
convenience to Western Imperi
alists.
While Great Britain adminis
tered the Kuwaiti military and 
foreign relations until 1961, U.S. 
corporations like Stanford Oil of 
New Jersey, Socony-Vacuum, 
Gulf, andTexaco poured hundreds 
of millions of dollars into the re
gion. The al-Sabah dynasty which 
had ruled the region since the 
middle of the 18th century con
tinues to appease the U.S. gov
ernment, filling corporate coffers 
by undercutting OPEC pricesetting. In exchange, the U.S. 
government provides continued 
political support and economic 
markets to the Sheik Jaher alAhmed al-Sahah, who rules a 
country in which less than 3 per
cent of the inhabitants voted in 
the last parliamentary elections 
(held five years ago), where a 
handful of families own and con
trol over 90 percent of the nations 
wealth and investments, and 
where the Emir himself owns over 
$100 billion worth of investments 
around the world.
Like Batista in Cuba, Samoza 
in Nicaragua, Marcos in the 
Philippines, and the Shah in Iran, 
the Emir of Kuwait presides un
opposed over a sovereign state 
of U.S. corporate shareholders. 
Such is the realistic, acceptable 
[and] logical status quo that Mr. 
Schwartz implicitly advocates as 
a precondition to any kind of rec
onciliation.
Only through blissful ignorance 
or willful deception does Mr. 
Schwartz fail to mention how the 
U.S. enters into, and, indeed is 
largely responsible for, the vola
tile Middle East socio-political 
landscape  how Americansponsored puppet regimes and 
client states, massive corporate 
investments and financing, stra
tegic economic and military as
sistance deeply implicate the 
federal government in the rela
tions amongMiddle East political 
and ethnic constituencies. In his 
account, the U.S. is cast as a 
completely disinterested observer 
of a political crisis which is her
metically sealed from the social, 
political, and economic determi
nations of Western capitalist im
perialism. Like Mr. Peabody 
guiding us on another journey in 
his wayback machine, 
Schwartzs history is irreducibly 
(and improbably) the product of 
individual initiative and accident; 
Saddam Hussein invades Kuwait 
because he is simply a poor sport
 a vindictive, malicious, damn 
dangerous troublemaker who 
wants to spoil everybodys fun. It 
is a foregone conclusion the the 
U.S. is on the side of right, God, 
and motherhood, that is it our 
job to go. out there and teach 
those fanatical heathens a thing 
or two about freedom and de
mocracy  even if it means 
bombing them back into the stone 
age.
Nowhere in the mainstream
press (and, consequently, no
where in Mr. Schwartzs discus
sion  since that is where his 
understanding ultimately comes 
from) is it possible to find an 
analytical position which is op
posed to both the Iraqi invasion and U.S. military intervention. 
He cannot conceive of that possi
bility because he can only think inside the carefully policed logic 
of a corporate nationalism  one 
which implicitly regards the in
terests of U.S. citizens as identical with and utterly circumscribed by the interests of mega-capitalism.
This identity (by no means a 
foregone conclusion) is reinforced 
in his article by virtue of a key 
rhetorical move: the substitution 
of a mystified first person plural 
(us  an ideal, abstracted na
tional subject) for what is actu
ally a very real, third person 
plural (them  Shell, Exxon, 
Mobil, and their political 
strongarm,theU.S. government). 
Mr. Schwartz would have you
believe that the two are 
unproblematically one and the 
same  that to be an American 
means to happily ratify policy 
decisions aimed at securing and 
furthering the accumulation of 
massive profits by extremely 
wealthy and politically powerful 
private corporations, regardless 
of the costs in money, materials, 
and human lives.
In conclusion, in arguing that a 
military strike against Iraqi 
forces is ... desperately needed 
and that a  diplomatic answer 
or response is utterly nonsensical 
if not pathetically stupid in its 
naivete, Mr. Schwartz offers a 
bullet-headed, simple-mided 
cynicism that most citizens of the 
world simply cannot afford to 
maintain. Such displays of male 
adolescent power fantasy may 
have a market in the video game 
industry butnot in politics.
Patryk Silver
Graduate, Literary and Cul
tural Theory
Letter spewed forth name-calling and incorrect accusations
LIBEL, from page 8
Mr. Silver writes: Mr. Bourdius seems 
[to think that the world is our playground, and that the U.S. government 
has a natural, unquestionable entitle
ment to name the game, set the rules 
and enforce them. Please recall, if you 
will, where I wrote: Whenever there 
was upheaval [in the time since the 
second World War], we [the United States 
and the Soviet Union] usually brought it 
!on ourselves.... The loss of the bipolar 
system means that there is no longer 
any such thing as a Soviet or American 
rclient in the world. In a sense, the 
Soviets and ourselves have created a 
monster.... In world affairs, Mr. Silver,
thegamehas not been just the creation 
of the United States. Unfortunately, our 
position as a strong nation has forced us 
to play it.
The world is not ours to do with as we 
please, but if we are to foster collective 
security for all humanity, we (the com
munity of nations) must all work to
gether to increase stability primarily by 
diplomatic and economic means and by 
military force if deemed proper and 
necessary. Collective security was the 
basis for the Monroe Doctrine, the United 
Nations, and the Organization of 
American States. Mr. Silvers asser
tions about my views on foreign policy 
are thus also false.
I think it is rather important to call to 
attention Mr. Silvers poor, if not de
crepit, journalistic techniques. I have 
been called many names before  a 
liberal, a radical, a war-monger, even a 
McCarthyist by Mr. Silver himself in 
The Tartan last year  but a racistimperialist posing as benevolent capital
ist patriarch attempting to morally jus
tify for himself global domination really 
takes the cake.
Mr. Silver, name-calling is the prac
tice of ten-year-olds, and has no place in 
proper journalism or in the discussion of 
important issues. Outside Carnegie 
Mellon, Mr. Silver, there is a thin line 
between name-calling and libel.
Along the same line, I grimly admire 
Mr. Silvers strategic use of the ellipsis 
when quotingmy column. In his letter he 
quoted me as: We must move carefully, 
slowly, and most importantly, firmly.... 
Our job should be to direct the world... 
Mr. Silver has skillfully and intention
ally excised the main point of my state
ments: ...on the path towards the time 
when the world as a whole is on commu
nity, and ...towards this new tomorrow 
that we all want so badly.
Mr. Silver has twisted my words to 
suit his own means. I am not favoring 
American domination of the world; how
ever, our nation does have so much to 
offer the world community in the way of
leadership towards global political and 
economic unity. That should be our na
tional goal. The recent unanimity or near
unanimity in United Nations Security j 
Council votes shows that the world is 
already joining together on foreign af! 
fairs.
Mr. Silver, I suggest you drop your 
name-calling and other improper jour
nalistic practices and get down to dis
cussing the issues. Unfortunately, I ex
pect you wont because you are probably 
too embarrassed to admit that in prin
ciple you really do agree with me.
Allan Bourdius 
Sophomore, H&SS
Fall budget packets are available in your Skibo mailboxes. Any new organizations which would like to receive funding may pick up budget packts at the September 18 Student Senate 
meeting. The meeting will be held in the Wherrett Room at 7 pm. Completed packets are due 
by Tuesday, September 25.

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans crush Chicago in home opener
Gesling Stadium
IJfuu Ixuu
by Dan Erhard
Loyalty can be 
tough to find
In 1989 the University of 
Floridas football program was 
hit with many athletic sanc
tions. Their head coach, Penn 
State graduate Galen Hall, was 
accused of giving assistant 
coaches added benefits, in cash, 
to supplement their normal 
paychecks. The twist to this 
accusation was that Hall had 
been paying these coaches from 
his own private funds. He was 
found guilty and ousted from 
his head coachs position.
To those unfamiliar with the 
NCAAs practices, one would 
not see anything wrong with 
rewarding ones coaches with 
more money. However, the 
assumption here is that those 
assistants could distribute that 
money to the players, obviously 
an illegal practice.
To make matters worse, five 
players, including starting 
quarterback Kyle Morris, were 
found guilty of gambling on 
college football games. After 
having their situations re
viewed by the NCAA, the 
players were suspended from 
the team, but were allowed to 
participate this season.
After all these problems, the 
Gators hired new head coach 
Steve Spurrier away from Duke 
University. Spurrier is a gradu
ate of Florida and even won a 
Heisman there. He decided to 
return to his alum in favor of 
going to the National Football 
League, where the Atlanta 
Falcons had beckoned for his 
services.
It is nice to see that kind of 
loyalty on that level. With so 
many coaches turning their 
backs on their schools, Spurrier 
took the challenge to turn his 
school into national contenders, 
and a true academic institution. 
He hopes to graduate ail of his 
players within five years, and 
attract the same kind of student-athlete that he was able to 
at Duke, where he won a share 
of the A.C.C. championship in 
'89 for the first time ever for 
that school. Good luck, Gators!
Speaking of school loyalty, 
Miami University coach Dennis 
Erickson won a national cham
pionship as a rookie coach there 
last year. That has been highly 
publicized. What hasnt been 
highly publicized is that the 
ambitious Erickson left Wash
ington State University to take 
the Miami job. And before that, 
he was head coach of the 
Wyoming Cowboys.
While holding that position, 
he left for a national coaches 
meeting and came back as the 
Washington State coach.
Without any team meeting, or 
even speaking to any of his 
Cowboy players, he abandoned 
them and accepted his new 
position. Some loyalty.
Well, all that is meaningless 
now because Heisman candi
date Ty Detmer passed for over 
four hundred yards in leading 
the Brigham Young Cougars to 
victory over the Convicts, I 
mean Hurricanes, of Miami.
Sorry about the lack of 
perversion in this weeks article. 
Im watching Pitt get crushed 
by Oklahoma and m too pissed 
to write anything funny. How
ler, next weeks article will 
feature an exclusive interview 
Wlth star Tartan wide receiver 
Don DeCaro, who has been 
whacking opposing players for 
years.
Dan Erhard is a sophomore ,najoring in professional Writing.
ceremonies 
highlighted by 
huge Tartan win
By JUDY GROSSMANTartan Staffwriter
On Saturday night the Tartan 
football team played its first game 
in the new Gesling Stadium, 
hosting the University of Chicago 
Maroons. From the opening kickoff to the final gun, the Tartans 
dominated, shutting out the Ma
roons 41-0 in front of a crowd of 
5,135.
We played with great enthu
siasm the whole football game, 
said Head Coach Rich Lackner. 
It was a nice way to open up the 
new stadium, with a big win.
The defense held the Maroons 
to just 48 yards rushing and 143 
yards passing. Maroon quarter
back Greg Schein threw four in
terceptions and was sacked four 
times as the Tartans completely 
shut down Chicagos run-andshoot offense.
Toward the end of the week, 
the defense really came together 
as a unit and we became more 
intense, said defensive back Jack 
OSavage, who had two intercep
tions. We had a little more pride 
and a little more individual effort 
and it paid off tonight.
The Tartan offense was equally 
impressive, racking up 386 yards,
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer 
At the end of the Tartans 41-0 win over Chicago, freshman Keith 
Hayman celebrates with his teammates.
While this is considerably less 
than last weeks 470, it is im
pressive because most of that 
yardage came in the first half. 
Lackner took out many of his 
starters in the second half and 
gave second and third team play
ers time.
Starting quarterback Billy 
Snyder left the game for good with 
just six minutes remaining in the 
first half. Snyder completed 6-of9 for 97 yards and one touchdown. 
Junior Sam Mangano took over 
in the second half, and although 
he completed just 2-of-6 for 15 
yards, he ran the ball seven times 
for 84 yards to lead the team in 
rushing.
Starting halfback Scott 
Bamyak, who entered the game 
needing just 233 yards to become 
5 all-time leading rusher,
gained 71 yards and scored two 
touchdowns in the first half, but 
did not play the entire second 
half. The Tartans used seven 
different backs during the game, 
including two stand-out fresh
men, Brian DiVito and Brian 
Horton.
We got to play a lot of kids, 
said Lackner. I was pleased about 
that. Some of the younger guys, 
Horton, DiVito, Greg White, John 
Fratto, did a great job and I could 
go on and on.
As a freshman, I didnt expect 
to play much, said DiVito, who 
gained 35 yards on six carries. I 
came in here as a wide receiver 
and got switched to anew position. 
So the whole thing is a new ex
perience but Im picking it up 
pretty well.
Please see FOOTBALL, page 14
'
Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer 
Senior halfback Scott Barnyak rushes the ball closer to the Maroon end 
zone. The Tartans won the home opener against Chicago, 41-0.
Soccer team adds to wins with two more
By JASON McDONALDTartan Asst. Sports Editor
The CMU soccer team im
proved its record to 4-0 with a 
pair of weekend home wins, 
including a 5-1 runaway 
against Washington & Lee on 
Sunday.
The Tartans dominated the 
game from the opening whistle, 
putting together many offen
sive chances early while 
keeping the Generals in check. 
The Tartans finally got on the 
board when junior forward 
Young Kang put on a one-man 
show. While lying on the turf, 
Kang cleared the ball into the 
W&L end, picked up his own 
pass behind the defense, and 
scorched a shot into the net for 
a 1-0 Tartan lead.
Four minutes later, a W&L 
comer kick resulted in a tying
goal, but the Tartans bounced 
right back and put the game 
away. Freshman defender Ja
son Grebe scored his first goal 
off a CMU corner kick, return
ing the lead to the Tartans, 2-1. 
The Tartans continued to 
pressure the Generals, but 
couldnt get any insurance goals 
until the half was almost over.
Carnegie Mellon put the game 
away in the final three minutes 
of the half. Kang scored his sec
ond breakaway goal of the game 
on a perfect feed from sopho
more Terence Sibiya. Less than 
two minutes later, with time 
running out, junior Rob 
Schaeffer scored on a header to 
give the Tartans a 4-1 halftime 
edge.
They played badly, said 
junior sweeper Alan Horn. 
They obviously werent used to 
our quick turf because theyd
Jason Digman/Tartan Senior Darkroom Technician
Freshman Min Chong battles for the ball in 
CMU's 2-0 victory over Johns Hopkins 
Friday.
Womens 
tennis 
suffers 9-0 
blow
By KATIE CULBERTSONTartan Sports Editor
After a disappointing season-opening 
7-2 loss last week to Duquesne, the 
womens tennis team had almost no
where to go but up.
However, the Tartans hopes were 
dashed Thursday when they hosted 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania and 
came up winless. IUP swept the contest 
9-0, breezing through nearly every 
match.
The closest Carnegie Mellon came to a 
win was in the number one singles slot, 
when senior Mary Beth Ashbaugh 
battled IUPs Heidi Sjoberg. After 
Sjoberg won the first set 6-0, it ap
peared that Sjoberg had the match all 
locked up. But Ashbaugh did not let her 
get by so easily. Although Sjoberg did 
win the match, it came after a tough 
second set that ended in a 7-5 score.
After that, it was all downhill for the 
Tartans. The IUP women won the rest 
of the matches easily, the closest score A,ex Patho Jr/Tartan Photographer
being 6-4, 6-1, in number two doubles Senior Mary Beth Ashbaugh fell short 6-0, 7-5 in her 
Please see TENNIS, page 14 number one singles match Thursday with IUP.
pass the ball and couldnt catch 
up to it.
The only score of the second 
half came 13 minutes into the 
game, fueled by another Kang 
breakaway. Kang took a long 
pass behind the defense and 
fired on the net, but was denied. 
However, freshman Min Chong 
scooped up the rebound and 
drove it home for the final 
margin of victory.
Fridays game against Johns 
Hopkins was a much tougher 
contest for the Tartans, as they 
had to fight a tough Bluejays 
team and a torrential downpour 
that soaked Gesling Stadium 
throughout most of the evening. 
The Tartans got another great 
defensive effort though, and 
prevailed 2-0.
The theme of the game turned 
out to be defense as the first 
serious shot on goal came 18
minutes into the game. The 
teams battled back and forth in' 
the middle of the field, with a 
few serious offensive threats' 
thrown in for good measure.- 
However, the rain began to fall* 
harder, changing the game; 
completely.
Sometimes you couldnt see 
the ball, but it was really fun,; 
said junior Rob Schaeffer. The; 
wind was blowing in our direc-; 
tion, so the rain was blowing; 
right at them; that worked to; 
our advantage.
The biggest effect of the rain' 
was that the passing game diedalmost completely. On paper, one! 
would have expected CMU toj 
suffer more, being the more, 
technical team. However, with! 
10 minutes left in the half, 
Schaeffer, the hero of the NYU' 
game, banked a crossing pass;
Please see SOCCER, page 14
Club sports strive for 
more support from AD
By KATIE CULBERTSONTartan Sports Editor
When sophomore Jim McBrier in
jured his back last year in crew practice, 
he turned to CMUs Athletic Depart
ment and its orthopedist for help.
But he was turned away. Although 
the injury was in no way life-threat
ening, it prevented McBrier from ever 
rowing again.
It was just McBriers luck that he 
was a member of the crew team. Had 
he instead been interested in football, 
or soccer, his injury would have received 
immediate attention.
But crew is not a varsity sport, as 
these others are. Crew is a club sport, 
and this simple distinction keeps 
McBrier and any other club sports 
athletes from receiving medical, finan
cial, athletic, or administrative support 
from the athletic department.
Aside from paltry funding from Stu
dent Senate, club sports are on their 
own. If the Ultimate Frisbee team is 
preparing for national finals, coordi
nating publicity is up to the team 
members. If the rugby team needs new 
jerseys, the team members must either 
dig into their Senate funds or pool their 
own money to purchase more. If the
baseball club has a big game in Ohio, | 
transportation is the teams responsi-' 
bility. If lacrosse players need to work; 
out, they can go to the old gym weight 
room during open hours, but they cannot j 
get into the new and innovative weight 
room in Resnik Hall, because only var 
sity athletes are allowed access.
And if a crew team member injures his 
back, he must go to a private and ex 
pensive orthopedist for help.
Members of club sports say they fee 
neglected by Carnegie Mellon. With such 
small budgets and such little support 
they have had virtually no chance to 
grow at all and become visible on the 
CMU campus. Fourth-year architect anc 
Senate Chair Chris Neighbor believes 
that club sports have the potential to 
really explode onto the athletic scene, 
but the athletic departments lack of 
support has stunted their growth. Club 
sports are doing so well, he said. They 
represent Carnegie Mellon and they are 
playing other varsity teams [at other 
schools] but without varsity classifica
tion.
Marc Roston a senior crew team 
member thinks the whole situation is 
unreasonable. We compete as a varsity 
team, and we have the needs of a varsity 
Please see CLUB SPORTS, page 15

---------------------------------------------------

Pwrne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei 5SSp
Gesling opens with a victory
FOOTBALL, from page 13
- The Maroons won the coin toss but 
deferred possession to the second half, 
giving CMU the ball first. After Greg 
Marmol returned the opening: kickoff to 
the CMU 45, the Tartans wasted no time 
in putting points on the board. Eight 
straight running plays by Bamyak and 
fullback Fran Bellante brought the 
'Tartans down to the Chicago eightyardline. From there, Bamyak took the 
ball over to give the Tartans a 7-0 lead 
and all the points they needed to win.
 For the rest of the first quarter, both 
defenses played tough and the quarter 
ended with the score still 7-0. But the 
Tartans were driving with their most 
impressive possession of the game. 
Snyder opened up the Maroon defense 
With a 15-yard strike to Bamyak and a
19-yarder to wide-receiver Don DeCaro. 'A third completion of 25-yards to Bellante 
gave the Tartans first-and-10 at the 
Maroon six.
: And with just 45 seconds gone in the 
second quarter, Barnyak found the end 
jzone. His second touchdown capped off a 
10-play, 69-yard drive and put the Tarjtans up 14-0.
Chicagos first possession of the second 
quarter went from bad to worse. Full
back Matt Ficenec returned Joe 
Schwerhas kickoff 22 yards, but an ille!gal block penalty put the Maroons back 
!at their own sixteen. On the first play 
from scrimmage, Ficenec fumbled the 
!ball. The Maroons managed to recover, 
but two plays later safety Brian Lippert 
'stepped in front of a Schein pass for 
.CMUs first interception of the game.
The Tartans took over, first-and-ten, 
>on the Chicago 19. Two plays later, 
^Snyder connected with tight-end Greg 
White for a twelve-yard touchdown. 
Schwerhas extra point gave the Tartans
a 21-0 lead with 11:45 remaining in the 
first half.
On Chicagos next possession, which 
began at their own 24, Scheins misfor
tune continued. A two-yard completion 
on the first play to wide-receiver Kui 
Nakamura was followed by Scheins 
second interception, courtesy of line
backer Mike Hession. Hession returned 
the ball 21 yards to the Chicago 15.
Last week, I think the line was the 
strongest part of the defense, said nose 
tackle Jim Rose. This week, I think you 
have to hand it to the secondary. It was 
mostly their game.
The offense took advantage as well, 
converting Chicagos second turnover into 
the Tartans fourth touchdown. An of
fensive pass-interference call on the first 
play nullified a 15-yard touchdown strike 
to Wayne Carson and backed the Tartans 
up 15 yards to the Chicago 30.
But Snyders 20-yard completion to 
Drew Pizzurro on third-and-nineteen 
gave the Tartans first-and-goal from the 
Chicago four. From there, halfback Greg 
Marmol took the ball in and Schwerha 
converted the point-after to put the Tar
tans up 280.
After we got up, they fell apart, said 
DiVito. They were pretty much out of 
it.
We really feel confident on the field, 
Snyder added. Right now we just need 
to keep things rolling in the right direc
tion.
Both teams made quarterback substi
tutions midway through the quarter, but 
for different reasons. Lackner put Sam 
Mangano in the game to prevent injury 
to Snyder and to give Mangano experi
ence. Maroon head coach Greg Quick put 
Chris Jennings into the game in an effort 
to get the offense moving.
But J ennings had as much luck against
the Tartan defense as Schein did. Ficenec 
returned Schwerhas kickoff nine yards, 
and a fifteen-yard personal foul against 
the Tartans gave Chicago first-and-10 at 
their own 43. Three straight running 
plays put the Maroons in Tartan terri
tory at the 45, but on the fourth play from 
scrimmage, Jennings was sacked by nose 
tackle Carlos Rodriguez for a loss of six 
yards. 
The sack proved to be costly. Jennings 
completed his first pass attempt to 
Nakamura for ten yards and what would 
have been a first-down. Instead, the Ma
roons were faced with third-and-five at 
the CMU 40. On fourth-and-four, the 
Maroons fake-punted. Punter Jeff St olte 
fell incomplete and the Tartans, with 
Mangano calling the shots, took over at 
their own 39.
With a new quarterback in the game, 
the Tartans played conservative foot
ball. Ten consecutive running plays, in
cluding three rushes for 41 yards by 
Mangano, brought the Tartans to the 
Chicago one-yardline. From there, full
back Griffin Pero took the ball in, andthe 
Tartans led 35-0 at the half.
Neither team scored in the third 
quarter. Schein re-entered the game at 
the start of the second half, and on 
Chicagos first drive, he put together a 
43Tyard drive, the most impressive drive 
of the game for the Maroons. Two 15- 
yard penalties against CMU, and an 
eleven-yard completion to Joseph McCoy 
brought the Maroons to the Tartan 37, 
but thats where it ended. Under heavy 
pressure, Schein threw the ball right at 
Jack OSavage.
Chicagos next possession ended when 
Jennings, backin the game after Scheins 
two second-half interceptions, fumbled 
at the Chicago 19. One play later, Brian 
Horton took the ball in for the Tartans
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manage: 
Above, junior halfback Andrew Pizzurro picks himself up after a successful block.
D. A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager 
Coach Rich Lackner and the Tartans celebrate their 41-0 victory.
sixth touchdown. The point-after failed.
The Tartan defense held the Maroons 
scoreless in their next two possessions to 
preserve the shutout and give the Tartans 
their second win of the season.
The team is now 2-0 both overall and 
in UAA play. This Saturday, they play 
their first non-conference game as the
Duquesne Dukes visit Gesling Stadium. 
Last year, the Tartans played the Dukes 
in the season opener, losing a heartbreaker, 11-10.
Duquesne going to be excited coming 
into our new stadium and I just hope our 
kids can rise to the occasion and play as 
well as they did tonight, said Lackner.
Volleyball fends off Catholic University for a win; loses at Allegheny
By ALIM RAYTartan Copy Manager
The womens volleyball team 
'had a relatively easy week until 
Friday, when it attended the Al
legheny College Tournament, and 
fought off Catholic University at 
;home yesterday.
; The week started off with a 
scheduled match against Univer
iUAA Athletes of the Week
CMUs junior Jonathan Frieder 
was named the University Ath
letic Association Athlete of the 
Week for mens cross country, 
while junior Carolyn Lowe was 
selected for womens cross coun
try.
Both were chosen for their per
formances in the Tartans meet 
against Robert Morris College 
September 1.
Frieders time of 26:45 on the 
.4.9-mile course won him the 
/honor. The Tartans captured the
sity of Pittsburgh-Johnstown, 
which didnt happen. The match 
was scheduled to be Wednesday 
at Carnegie Mellon but UPJ did 
not show up.
It was later discovered that 
University of PittsburghJohnstown did not sign the con
tract necessary to play another 
team and did not think it was 
scheduled for a match.
Sports Shorts
first five places in the race, earn
ing the CMU mens cross country 
team its 105th consecutive dual 
meet win in Division III compe
tition.
Lowe was the top finisher in the 
womens race, followed by four of 
her teammates. Her first place 
time in the meet, against the 
University of PittsburghJohnstown as well as Robert 
Morris, was 16:04.
In the next weeks balloting, 
Lowe was again selected for her 
role in a losing effort against 
Duquesne. Lowe once again won
On Friday and Saturday the 
Tartans got some real matches in 
the Allegheny College Tourna
ment. Carnegie Mellon had a 
match record of 0-5 and did not 
attended the playoffs.
Head coach Charolette Fisher 
wasnt terribly upset with the 
teams results during the tourna
ment commenting, [We had] lots 
of errors in the beginning... as the
the womens race, beating her 
previous mark by 14 seconds.
Junior Alan Horn won Athlete 
of the Week honors for soccer. 
Horn, playing the sweeper posi
tion, led the Tartan defense in 
two shutout efforts. The Tartans 
beat Hiram 3-0 in their season 
opener and defeated New York 
University, 10.
The final Tartan to earn Ath
lete of the Week honors was de
fensive lineman Jim Rose. Rose 
had seven tackles, including two 
sacks, in the Tartans 35-21 vic
tory over Washington University.
tournament progressed, we 
played better as a team. Thats 
good to see.
Fisher was very pleased with 
two of her players: senior captain 
Nicole Hanak had a well rounded 
nice game with smart hitting and 
real nice passing, and freshman 
setter Chris Knorr came off the 
bench to play strong.
Within less than 24 hours of
returning to Carnegie Mellon the 
team had to play Catholic Uni
versity Sunday morning. CMU 
won in five games: 6-15,11-15, 
15-8,15-10,15-13.
Fisher described her team as 
slow starting on Sunday. The 
first two games they [Carnegie 
Mellon] were waiting for Catholic 
to make mistakes .... [This] gave 
the other team the opportunity to
take control of the match.
In the third game the Tartans 
became more aggressive and 
rolled on to take control of the last 
three games.
They still had periods where 
they would let up, said Fisher. 
But she was glad to see that 
CMU hung on and kept pushing 
and pushing until they got 15 
points.
Womens tennis falls to Duquesne
CMU soccer holds tight to win streak
SOCCER, from page 13
into the net off the far post. Schaeffers goal turned 
out to be the only score of the half, and the Tartans 
went to the locker room leading 1-0.
Kas [senior Chris Kasabach] stripped his man 
and crossed it to me, said Schaeffer, and I did a 
left-footed side volley to put it in.
After a lengthy halftime delay, the game resumed, 
and even though the rain let up in the second half, 
the game remained a hard-fought defensive battle. 
Johns Hopkins tried to accelerate the offensive 
tempo, but was thwarted by the tough Tartan 
defense. Finally, with 17 minutes left in the game, 
Chong scored his first college goal to provide insurance for the Tartans third straight victory.
We were just hoping they wouldnt call the game 
because we knew we had them, said Kasabach.
The Tartans are pleased with the results so far 
this season. Im a little surprised because were a 
young team, said Kasabach, but we have a lot of 
tough freshmen and we have team unity. This team 
works well together.
Im not surprised at all, said Horn. We played 
really well together in pre-season.
The Tartans return to University Athletic Asso
ciation action this weekend with a Friday game at 
the University of Rochester before returning home 
to play Emory University on Sunday.
TENNIS, from page 13
and number three singles.
Head Coach Peter Moss kept 
the lineup pretty much the same 
as he did for the Duquesne match. 
Keeping Ashbaugh, senior Alice 
Garber, sophomore Laura Ahr, 
junior Jenni Borque in the first 
four singles spots.
Senior Lia Calhoun moved into 
the fifth place, while junior Sylvia 
Candia playednumber six singles.
The team, despite some dis
couraging losses, remains opti
mistic that the more matches it 
plays, the more it will improve in 
competition. This was [IUPs] 
fifth match, and only our second, 
said Borque. Well do a lot better 
once weve played a few more 
matches.
In doubles, Ashbaugh and 
Garber, and Ahr and Borque, and 
Calhoun and Candia teamed up 
for doubles.
The closest Carnegie Mellon came to 
a win was in the number one singles 
slot, when senior Mary Beth 
Ashbaugh battled Gimea Heidi 
Sjoberg.... Although Sjoberg did win 
the match, it came after a tough sec
ond set that ended in a 7-5 score.
Yesterdays scheduled match 
with Fairmont State college was 
rained out.
Tonight at 5, the Tartans host 
Chatham College in a cross-town 
match-up. Saturday, Grove City 
comes to the CMU courts.
In mens tennis action, although 
the official season does not begin
until the spring semester, Moss is 
sending two of his players to 
Swarthmore College October 5 to 
the 7 for the 1990 ITCA Rolex 
Mid-Atlantic Small College Ten
nis Championships. Sophomore 
Andrwe Lee and Jeff Blankenship 
will be representing Carnegie 
Mellon.
Pizza Outlet
sxums
Ml'D'DL'E EAS'I'EXJbi  QI^'E'EOi D'EL I 
Catering I Business Luncheons andMeetings I (Party Trays
TakeoutGroceries
Taboulee I Falafil I Gyros I 
Spinach Pies IStuffed Grape 
Leaves I Humus I Baba Ghanoucjh 
I Vegetarian Specials I Tahim I 
Baklava
Dried Beans I Fresh Spices I 
Greek Olives I Basmati Rice I 
Imported foods and a whole 
lot more
Party Trays--serves 15 $26.50 
10% Off Takeout Menu With This Coupon
190 N. Craig
pnaa mauPbane
687-9555
(Across from 
Gulf Station)
OPEN 7 DAYS Sun-Thurs llam-lam Fri & Sat llam-2am
2 PIZZAS $5.99
2 T $7.99
No Coupon NecessaryWSL $9.99
For Limited Time Only
OUR DOUGH IS MADE FRESH DAILY

---------------------------------------------------

rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSp
Pennant races come down to the wire; Oakland is favorite5
In a year marred by a two week 
lock-out by the owners, baseball 
has transformed itself from that 
friendly sandlot game to a biga 
very big business.
We have finally found the first 
five million dollar man in Jose 
Canseco, who will never be 
healthy for an entire season.
We were able to watch the 
Kansas City Royals, with the 
highest payroll in major league 
baseball, totalling more than 
thirty million dollars, eliminate 
themselves from the playoffs 
with nearly a month remaining 
in the season. We saw a Japanese 
import worshipped in Detroit as 
the Tigers Cecil Fielder started 
bashing home runs on a pace to 
break Roger Maris single season 
home run record (which was 
supposed to be unreachable, even 
by Canseco).
Oh yeah, in the same season as 
the lock-out-shortened spring
training, fans were given the 
privilege of seeing an all time 
record of nine no-hitters, one of 
which was lost. Only George 
Steinbrenners team could lose a 
no-hitter.
We also got to see the most 
hated man in all of baseball ban
ished for a while, but it looks like 
he will fight this out in the courts 
for some time to come.
Now that its getting cool outside 
and autumn is just around the 
comer, the pennant races are 
kicking into overdrive. There are 
two exciting races this year, with 
a possibility of a third.
The American League West was 
wrapped up before the season even 
started. Oakland has a com
manding nine-and-a-half-game 
lead heading down the stretch. 
With the Athletics recent acqui
sitions ofHarold Baines and Willie 
McGee, they can now field eight 
current or former all-stars. They
uyvv
dmm
THE MAJOR LEAGUE
by Caleb Cohen
have a pitching staff battling each 
other for the Cy Young award 
with the likes of Welch (23-5), 
Stewart (20-10) and Eckersley (42 
saves). But they are battling sec
ond place Chicagos Bobby 
Thigpen with 50 saves, which is a 
major league record. They seem 
unbeatable for some time to come, 
including the American League 
title and World Series.
The AL East seemed to be all 
Bostons until they lost three in a 
row to visiting Oakland. They 
went 2-4 for the week and are 
losing grip on a three-game lead
overToronto. They both have easy 
schedules for the rest of the sea
son, but play three together in 
Boston late this month. Bostons 
chances were greatly reduced 
when 1986 Cy Young award 
winner and current candidate 
Roger Clemens (20-6) was side
lined with a shoulder injury. It is 
unknown when he will return and 
Toronto must capitalize on their 
opportunity and win their games 
with the likes of Baltimore (6 
games), New York (3), Cleveland 
(3) and Milwaukee (3). I like 
Toronto in the East. Last year 
they battled down to the last 
weekend of the season, beating 
Baltimore to win it all in a head to 
head series.
In the senior circuit, the west 
has been Cincinnatis since early 
April, but lately Los Angeles and 
San Francisco have been kicking 
up some dirt, but that seems like 
thats all they will be doing. Cin
cinnati leads the National League 
in batting and pitching while LA 
is well down in the middle of the 
statistical column.
San Franciscos battingisalittle 
better than LAs, but they sport a 
4.04 team ERA. Cincinnati starts 
three men batting over .300 and a 
pitching staff with four players 
accumulating more than ten wins 
a piece.
We can not forget the 1988 
Dodgers, they proved to the world 
that statistics do not necessarily 
mean that a team will win it all. I 
still think that Cincinatti will win 
the NL West quite easily.
The division the Mets are in has 
finally been given a name by the 
national media. It is now called 
the NL East. For the first time 
since the late 1970s, the Pitts
burgh Pirates have been given 
some positive press. The fact that 
it took until the All-Star break for 
anyone to notice that the Pirates
were in first place for nearly ey* 
ery day since the first few weeks 
of the season is astonishing.
The Pirates are showing offfrep,- 
agents to be Barry Bonds (.31$ 
29 HR, 107 RBI) and Bobfcjy 
Bonilla (.284, 31 HR, 106 RBI) fts 
well as Cy Young candidate Dovjg 
Drabek (19-5, 2.75). This tea^i 
has depth on the bench as well as 
on'the pitching staff in which 19 
different pitchers have wins. Tlje 
bullpen isnt too shabby either 
with Bill and Ted (as noted at a 
game) have a combined 6-6 reconl 
with 20 saves and a 2.68 ER^ 
Four other Pirate pitchers also 
have saves. They also rank nunjj 
ber two in both batting and pitch
ing, second to teams out of con
tention.
The Mets are not to be writte^ 
off as of yet. They still have .^ 
three game season-ending series 
in Pittsburgh, which will decide it 
Please see BASEBALL, page It?
Club sports feel neglected by University
CLUB SPORTS, from page 13
team.
McBrier resents the Athletic 
Department for denying him aid 
when he was injured. I was really 
upset. Crew is not a varsity sport, 
I so I couldnt get help, he said. 
1 There is no reason why the school 
cannot take responsibility.
These sentiments barely 
1 scratch the surface. Senior John 
Lucena, captain of rugby team, 
;j would like to capitalize on the i potential of his team, but does not 
have the resources to fully nurture the teams talent.
You can have as many big and 
| strong players as you want, but 
without a place to practice, youre ] not going to have a good team, he 
i said.
Unfortunately for rugby and \ other club sports, they fall at the 
/ bottom of the barrel when it comes 
to scheduling priorities. If it came 
1 down to scheduling an Intramu; ral event or a club sport practice 
I on a field, the space would go to 
the IM event, according to Dr. 
John Harvey, athletic director.I
IM touches many more people on 
campus than club sports do, said 
Harvey.
Still, club sports do not see this 
reasoning. Senior John Lema, who 
plays rugby, points out that al
though IM involves more people 
j on the campus, numbers do not 
mean everything. Club sports 
involve much more dedication 
[than IM], said Lema. We be
long to a national league and a 
local league, we pay for profes
sional referees.
Lucena agrees. Three jerks 
from Hammerschlag [IM partici
pants] should not take precedence 
over club sports, he said.
Lucena and other club sports 
athletes are willing to compro
mise to gain some of their objec
tives. I would hold practice on 
Flagstaff Hill from 9:30 pm to 11 
if they put lights out there, said 
Lucena.
The Athletic Department and 
the administration say they are 
doing what they can to help mat
ters and keep club sports happier. 
Were trying to do what we can, 
said Harvey.
He cited funding as the major 
obstacle to alleviatingthese prob
lems, and added that the Athletic 
Department is helping out. The 
AD has a certain amount of money 
allocated to pay for jobs such as 
passing at programs at football
"The outlook for more money in the 
future is dim.
C Dr. John HarveyH 
CMU Athletic Director
games, and cleaning up the sta
dium after games. Right now, the 
rugby andlacrosse teams are get
ting paid for these tasks, which 
helps their budgets some.
Despite these small efforts, 
Harvey admits that the Athletic 
Department cannot do much 
more, because the outlook for 
more money in the future is dim.
The obvious solution, making 
club sports into varsity sports in
volves a lengthy and complicated 
process, according to Vice Presi
dent for Enrollment Bill Elliott. 
They [club sports] could start by 
talking to the Athletic Director. 
Then theyd talk to me, and after 
that they might talk to the 
President. Probably, theyd have 
to put together a budget, look at 
feasibility, and see if we have the 
resources. Sports vying for var
sity status in the spring would 
have an easier time that in the 
fall, since there is more space and 
time in the spring, said Elliott.
Even if it was possible, Harvey 
strongly doubts that sports that 
currently have club status would 
even want to be at the varsity 
level. You have to weigh the pros 
and cons, he said. For example, 
at the varsity level, graduate stu
dents are not permitted to play, 
by NCAA rules, although they 
can play at the club level. Also, 
scheduling would then be up to 
the Athletic Department, and that 
would severely limit who and 
when these teams could play.
From Warner Hall, the feeling 
is basically the same as from the 
Athletic Department offices in the 
gym. Elliott expresses his regret 
at the club sports predicament, 
but agrees with Harvey that only 
so much can be done.
In fact, Elliott says he made an 
effort last year to appropriate 
more money for club sports, by 
putting in a budgeting request to 
the University. However, the 
proposal and the money were de
nied. Ive tried to get some money 
to be of some assistance to club 
sports, said Elliott. My mistake 
was I said, Im going to try to get 
it, before I got it. We didnt get
the money. The University de
cided not to appropriate any 
money to the AD to be of assis
tance to the club sports.
Elliott cited lack of facilities as 
another reason to maintain the 
club sports current status. How 
far west can you push the athletic 
field to make enough room to get 
a baseball field at the comer of 
Margaret Morrison and Forbes? I 
told the guys in baseball, were 
going to look at this thing. That 
doesnt mean if we put the field in 
were going to have varsity base
ball, but if we dont out it in, were 
going to have a hard time justify
ing varsity baseball, said Elliott.
Even if more space could be 
created to accommodate more 
varsity sports, scheduling time 
for practice and games would then 
be a problem, said Elliott.
According to Neighbor, club 
sports should achieve varsity sta
tus because they are out there 
and traveling around represent
ing CMU. But Elliott disagrees. 
You and I are representing 
Carnegie Mellon as soon as we 
put in a sweatshirt and walk 
downtown, he said. Supportisnt 
limitless. That doesnt mean you 
disregard people. Weve decided 
that we are going to be very good 
or at least very accomplished in 
certain areas and were going to 
see how we can nurture others.
Other University Athletic As
sociation schools have a similar 
structure to their club sports pro
grams, but the athletes seem more 
satisfied with the conditions than 
they do at CMU. According to 
Barbara Bickford, the associate 
athletic director at Brandeis Uni
versity in Waltham, Mass., their 
club sports are funded through 
student government, but the 
athletic department almost al
ways helps out when the sports 
put in special requests. We pro
vide as much as we possibly can, 
said Bickford.
Tom Calder, the associate ath
letic director at Johns Hopkins 
University in Baltimore describes 
a structure very similar to CMUs, 
adding that scheduling for pracGOLF 
intramurals
write for tartan sportsfield hockey
wrestling asketall
hockey
ultimate
frisbee
szoimming 
RUGBY
baseball
tennis
track and field
FOOTBALL
lacrosse
CREW
Soccer 
cross country
tices and games is always a prob
lem.
At all these schools, club sports 
fall around number four or five on 
the list of priorities. According to 
Harvey, CMUs list starts with 
varsity sports and physical edu
cation, followed by Intramurals, 
and then club sports.
The answers do not come eas
ily, Harvey and Elliott readily 
concede. They agree that the 
current situation is not ideal, and 
would love to see the club sports 
happy. I would like to see more 
varsity sports, said Elliott.
Until then, the rugby team must 
purchase its own jerseys, ultimate 
frisbee must coordinate its own 
publicity, baseball must arrange 
its own travel plans, and injured 
athletes must find their own doc
tors.
Cities vie for 
football franchises
01
up
As is the 
case with most 
returning Su
per Bowl 
champions, 
the year after 
may prove to 
be a test for 
last years un
stoppable San
Francisco 49ers, who,after be
ing dominated by a tenacious 
New Orleans Saints defense, 
squeaked out a one-point vic
tory Monday night, 13-12. A 
Mike Cofer field goal from 38 
yards out with nine seconds re
maining saved the 49ers.
o8
The Saints, 
may very welliii 
have been thei'i 
first victims rdi 
new time rules/d 
which allow) 
the clock tdONFL NEWS mn after the 
by David Martin referees signo 
nal on outofeS
bounds plays throughout most// 
of the game, deleting at least a>8 
minute and a half from playing 
time. C
Dave Meggets 68-yard pun 
return in the third quarterproved to be the game winne^ 
Please see NFL, page 16
 Please stop by Skibo 50 or call x2111 and ask for Katie or Jason. 
Classifieds.
Housing
Amberson Plaza5030 Centre AvenueFree parking, newly renovated, 
spacious 1 & 2 BRs. A.C./ carpet / 
dishwasher. BEST VALUE IN 
TOWN. Models Open 7 Days. Day 
& Evening Showings. 681-9870 or 
931-4141.
Short TermShadyside Inn Apart
ment Suites. Elegantly furnished, 
well appointed, Studio 1 & 2 bed
room suites, fully equipped kitchen. 
Includes free cable (HBO), phone, 
parking, linens. One block to Walnut 
St. shops. From $41 per day. Daily & 
Weekly rate available. 441-4444.
Jobs
Activists-Environmentalists: Work 
3 days a week, 1:30 - 10:30 PM, and 
earn $165 - $200 per week. Clean 
Water Action, 765-3053. Ask for 
Dion.
Earn Easy $$$ by participating in a 
psychology experiment at CMU. 
Takes about an hour. Earn $5.00 per 
hour. Contact Victoria or Rory at 
268-5210.
The Development Office is seeking 3 
student assistants to maintain data 
bases for staff, assist with mailings, 
record keeping, filing, and deliveries. 
The candidates should be reliable, 
conscientious,, and have knowledge 
of Microsoft Word on the Macintosh 
computer. 10 hours per week. Stu
dents that qualify for Pennsylvania 
work study preferred. Please call 
Judy Brashear at Ext. 6948 - Devel
opment Division.
Campus Representatives neededEam free trip and big commissions by 
selling vacation packages to Cancn, 
Mexico, Nassau/Paradise Island, Ba
hamas & Jamaica. For more informa
tion call toll free in or outside Con
necticut at 800-283-8767.
tive study at Magee-Womens Hos
pital. One year commitment. Reim
bursement. For details call 647-4259 
(Mon. - Fri.).
Fortino & Associates, Inc. an
nounces a unique marketing research 
internship opportunity for the Fall 
semester. This internship will ex
pand upon startling lifestyle statis
tics, formerly published in Newsweek, Premiere, USA Today, and high
lighted on The Tonight Show and 
all three national news networks. 
Interested students are urged to at
tend meeting on Wednesday, Octo
ber 10th from 5:00 to 6:00 pm in Rm. 
110 Mervis Hall (Univ. of Pgh. cam
pus). Student Interns will help in 
survey design, observation, analysis 
and interviewing of corporate direc
tors. In addition to substantial expe
rience, interns will receive a highly 
impressive portfolio piece and high
light to their resumes. College credit 
may also be awarded. For more infor
mation, contact Lynn Cassella at 344- 
8805 or 682-3955.
Fast Fundraising Program$ 1000 
in just one week. Earn up to $ 1000 for 
your campus organization. Plus a 
chance at $5000 more! This program 
works! No investment needed. Call 
1-800-932-0528, ext. 50.
Need part-time responsible wait
ress. Sun-Thurs 4:30 to 10:00 pm. 
Fri-Sat 4:30 to 11:00 pm. Sichuan 
House, 1900 Murray Avenue.
Earn $500-$1500 part-time stuffing 
envelopes in your home. For free 
information, send a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope to: P.O.Box 81953, 
Albuquerque, NM 87198.
Progressive retailer looking for stu
dent to aid in window displays and 
signage. Salaiy negotiable. Call 281- 
3005 Mondays between 5:00 and 
9:00pm.
- Marys Shoppe. 835-2204. 
Parties***Parties*** PartiesWb 
have everything for your party at Pa^: 
permart - One Stop Party Shopping!?; 
Stroll down Morewood Avenue to*;j 
Baum Boulevard. +Theme decora~-*J 
tions. Lots of fun doodads and fantasy 
tic la-de-dah. Gag gifts and fake 
vomit. Great greeting cards. 681,- 
8900.
iSi***Low Student Fares*** AYJ^y 
Passes *** Eurail Passes *** Travel] 
Books *** All to be found at Foruqij 
Travel. Visit us at 4608 Winthrop Su 
(off South Craig) or call us at 68 If 
4099. lo1|
Collegiate Express Connection ofr> 
fers roundtrip charter bus transporta
tion September 27-30. YomKippur 
and pre-midterm break. Harrisburg,s 
Reading, King of Prussia/Morristown, 
Philadelphia, Chery Hill,NJ. Call 
Collegiate Express Connection at 687- 
7488 now for reservations.
Occasional Overnight Babysitter Services
needed for well-behaved 6-year-old,
6pm to 7am. 366-8960.
Healthy Women-ages 18-37 (34 for 
smokers) needed for oral contracepStunguns: legal, powerful protec
tionTeargas: attacker is rendered 
helplessGunsMartial Arts. At
tention: college students, young adults
Miscellaneous w
91
Individual seeking to purchase 
sketches, paintings, & sculptures. Ifr 
you have work youd like to sell call 
281-3005, Mondays 5:00 to 9:00 pm 
and ask for Esther. n
ir
Lost-extra large ioyal blue umbrella^ 
in Porter Hall basement on Septem^. 
ber 5. Name Harvey F. Sloan printedit 
on handle. Has sentimental valueiO 
Finder please leave in Room 20Q,. 
GSIA. Reward!
Private Adoption is a compassion
ate and perfectly legal way to show 
your love for your child. This choice 
offers you paid medical and legal 
expenses, no foster care or agency 
hassles, and a cozy place to live while 
pregnant.
We will be a milk and cookies Mom 
and a little league Dad, and we prom
ise a full and happy life for a child.
We are easy to talk with and care 
aboutyourneeds. If you would like to 
meet with us, or simply talk, please 
call us COLLECT-(412) 836-4754.
Collegiate Express Connection
wishes Jewish students a happy New 
Year !

---------------------------------------------------

16The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  17 September 1990
Women's CC fares well at Allegheny
By DAN HOLLANDTartan Staffwriter
Only a glimpse of sun shone 
early Saturday morning before 
the clouds and rain moved in to 
dampen the Allegheny College 
Invitational. But the dreary 
weather was commonplace for the 
first invitational ofthe year. With 
only two meets behind them, the 
womens cross country team 
trudged its way to a strong per
formance in a meet stacked with 
20 'teams and nearly 120 runners.
 Junior Carolyn Lowe was not 
intimidated by taking sixth place 
overall in a time of 19:04 to lead 
the team. Her performance was 
outstanding amidst loaded com
petition. She contended with 
NCAA All-Americans and the 
NCAA defending national cham
pions, SUNY-Cortland. The winner of the race is a favorite to win 
the National Championship this 
year.
But to Coach Dario Donatelli, 
Lowe!s race was exceptional. She 
was up against some national 
caliber runners and stayed right 
with them. In fact, Donatelli 
feels that Lowe will race with 
these women again. Carolyn has 
a good chance to make it to na
tionals as an individual, he said.
Coach Donatelli was also 
pleased with his teams perfor
mance. They were 10 th out of the 
20 teams and many members had 
excellent individual perfor
mances. The next CMU-woman 
was sophomore Laura Sibley, who 
took 36th overall in 20:26 and 
was much improved over last 
years invitational. Third for the 
team in 39th place was freshman 
Megan Greig in 21:03. Following
her in 86th place was junior Lois 
Raska, junior Emily Burke in 88th 
place, freshman Cynthia 
Kolanowsk, 92nd place, and 
sophomore Sheila Skaffin 112th.
Unfortunately, the women were 
missing seniors Kristin Burgard 
and Sue Sparks, which made an 
enormous difference. We would 
have knocked off about 30 points 
from our score with our team at 
full strength, Donatelli said.
But he was pleased with sev
eral of the individual perfor
mances and looks to the future for 
more improvement. BytheUAAs 
well be ready to give it a shot at 
challenging the competition, 
Donatelli said of the University 
Athletic Association Champion
ships on October 20. But that is 
over a month away. Next week, 
the team travels to Dickinson 
College in Carlisle, PA.
Men tie for third at Allegheny College
By DAN HOLLANDTartan Staffwriter
It was muddy and cold, and 
rain came down in a fine mist. 
But that did not stop the mens 
cross country team from tying for 
third place Saturday at the Al
legheny College Invitational.
Unfortunately, CMU had to 
share itsl21 points with Otterbein 
CoUege. SUNY-Cortland took first 
place and SUNY-Fredonia cap
tured second. The team was 
plagued with injuries and sick
ness, missing top performers 
freshman Dave White to a pulled 
abdominal muscle, and junior 
Russel Shorkey to sickness.
Despite the teams health prob
lems, the Tartans fared well in 
their first invitational of the sea
son. Junior Johnathan Frieder 
led the way by placing eighth 
overall.
In fact, the whole team ran well, 
given the conditions and the com
petition. The meet was loaded 
with 16 teams including aboutl 30 
runners, and a few Division III
All-Americans, from Pennsylva
nia, Ohio and New York.
The bulk of the CMU team was 
packed closely at the finish. Se
nior Dan Holland was the next 
runner, placing 20th overall. 
Close behind were Senior Gary 
Harrison in 25th place, Sopho
more Brad Shapiro in 27th, Jun
ior John Byrnes taking 33rd, and 
Scott Phillips in 35th place.
We know where we are right 
now and what we have to do to 
have a successful season, said 
Coach Gary Meckley.
National Scoreboard
MAJOR 
LEAGUE BASEBALL
AMERICAN LEAGUE
Chicago 4, Boston 2 
Detroit 5, New York 2 
Oakland 5, Minnesota 4 
Kansas City 9, Cleveland 6 
Milwaukee 5, Texas 3 
Seattle 5, California 3 

NATIONAL LEAGUE
Cincinnati 9, LA 5
SPORTS IN SEASON
Touch FootballCommissioners
Majors  Rich Romeo, x8335
Intermediate  Eric Pfefferle,
441-7003
Minors  Sujit Bhattacharya, 
x4i)84
Women Only  Kris Pasqualin, 
x5978
Games will be played on Flagsta'ff Hill and at Gesling Stadium. 
Play all games as scheduled and 
check the IM Board for team 
standings. The 8:30 pm games for 
Wednesday, September 26, are 
Cancelled because the stadium will 
not be available.
c4ncelled GAMES Women Only 
Ddlta Gamma vs. Theta Intermediate
SAE A vs. German Soldiers 
Mtickrakers vs. USS Carnegie
Montreal 4, Pittsburgh 1 
Houston 3, San Francisco 2 
Chicago 8, St. Louis 4 
Philadelphia 8, New York 3 
San Diego 9, Atlanta 4
NATIONAL 
FOOTBALL LEAGUE
San Francisco 26, Washington 13 
Phoenix 23, Philadelphia 21 
Miami 30, Buffalo 7 
New York Jets 24, Cleveland 21
IM News
Minors
Blood & Glory vs. Phi Kap B 
Please call IM office, x2214, for 
rescheduled time and date.
TennnisCommissioner 
Todd Balbera, x8424 
Matches will start Wednesday' 
and will be played on the Carnegie 
Mellon courts.
Please check the Intramural 
bulletin board for playing sched
ules. There are 34 teams com
peting this year, which is a new 
Intramural record.
Co-rec VolleyballCommissioner 
Rich Romeo, x8335 
Matches will begin Wednesday. 
Please pick up the league sched
ule in the Intramural office and 
play all games as scheduled. A 
record 56 teams will be partici
pating in co-rec volleyball this
IM Scoreboard
FOOTBALL
INTERMEDIATE
DI VISION A 
Sn'irit 
Zo'p A 
Keippa Sig 
Tlifeta Xi 
Hostile 
Takeoversw 1.
DIVISION B
NRXompetitions
ATO
The Untouchables 
Gini Pips 
Delta Upsilon
DIVISION C 
Pi Alpha Delta 
USS Carnegie 
SAE A 
Muckrakers 
German 
Soldiers
MINORS
DIVISION A 
Phi Kap A 
Sig Tau 
The Weasles 
Pioneers 
The Burglars 
KDR
DIVISION B 
ECE D. Rams 
SAE B 
Black Rain 
Doherty Dest. 
Trojans 
ChessClub
DIVISION C 
Pika C 
DU B 
SAE C 
Theta Xi B 
Scobell 4 
Sch lags
MINORS
DIVISION D 
0 DTD A 1
0 Blood and Glory 1
0 Minions
1 of the Cow 0
F Phi Kap B 0
1 Carnegie In 0
USS Mellon 0
DIVISION E 
ZOO B 
KSA
Mr. Softees 
Tudor 
Roaches 
3D
0 DIVISION F
0 Green Aces 1
0 Theta Xi A 1
1 Manie... 0
F Pilam 0
1 Doherty Dinosaurs 0
NFL franchises are up for grabs
NFL, from page 15
Sunday night for the New York 
Giants, against a statistically 
dominant Philadelphia team. 
Turnovers proved fatal for 
Randall Cunningham and the 
Eagles, as they lost 2720 to 
their NFC East rival.
After it had recently been re
ported in mass media circles 
that they would return to Oak
land, the Raiders owner, the 
outspoken A1 Davis, signed a
20-year contract with the city of 
Los Angeles, eliminating 
Oaklands chances for receiving 
an experienced professional 
team. The city of Oakland now 
intends to make a stronger move 
toward an expansion team.
Speaking of expansion teams, 
earlier this summer NFL com
missioner Paul Tagliabue 
promised expansion by the 1991 
season. Many cities remain in 
the running, but only two will 
be sure to have teams by 
Tagliabues promised date. 
Cities still competing for pro
fessional football teams include 
Charlotte, NC; Jacksonville, FL;
Baltimore, MD; Oakland, CA; 
Sacramento, CA; and San Anto
nio, TX.
Though no city has been picked 
yet, its fair to say that either 
Oakland or Baltimore will pick 
up an expansion team, being two 
of three cities who lost their pro
fessional teams to other cities in 
the last decade. The third, St. 
Louis, is bidding for an expansion 
team, but would be an unlikely 
choice to host one.
Tonights matchup between 
Kansas City and Denver should 
prove to be a tell-tale one. Injuryplagued Denver will face a high
flying Chiefs team coming off a 
week-one upset of Minnesota. 
Denver struggled with arch-rival 
LA Raiders only to be beaten by 
an improving and now perma
nently LA-based Raiders team. 
The tussle with the Cheifs should 
prove to sound the death knell of 
the Broncos in the AFC West, 
giving way to the stronger, re
building franchises. Kansas City 
24, Denver 17.
Picks for week-three games on 
Sunday: San Francisco over Atlanta, Washington in a struggle 
with Dallas, the Giants in a 
rare matchup against Miami, 
Cleveland to roll over incompe
tent San Diego, Denver over 
weak Seattle, Houston with 
what could be its first win of the 
season hosting Indianapolis, 
Chicago over Minnesota at 
Wrigley Field, in a possibly 
meaningless NFC Central ri
valry, Tampa Bay with a close 
win over Detroit (could be the 
battle for number two in the 
NFC Central), Green Bay with 
a fight on their hands against 
KC (two teams Id like to see in 
Super Bowl XXV, just for old 
times sakea re-match of Su
per Bowl I), LA Rams at home 
over the Philadelphia Eagles, 
Cincinnati in a romp over New 
England, New Orleans in the 
Superdome easily over Phoe
nix.
Finally, and unfortunately, 
the Raiders over the hometown 
Steelers, quite possibly in a rout.
Dave Martin is a freshman in H&SS majoring in psychology.
AL, NL pennant races tighten up
LA Rams 35, Tampa Bay 14 
New York Giants 28, Dallas 7 
Minnesota 32, New Orleans 3 
l_A Raiders 17, Seattle 13 
Chicago 31, Green Bay 13 
New England 16, Indianpolis 14 
Detroit 21, Atlanta 14 
Cincinnati 21, San Diego 16
Tonight: The Kansas City Chiefs 
battle the Denver Broncos in Mile 
High Stadium. Catch the game at 9 
pm on ABC. For predictions for tonight 
at Sunday's games, see Dave 
Martin's NFL column on page 15.
BASEBALL, from page 15
all, but until then their sched
ules are nearly identical. The 
Mets show off an all-star caliber 
pitching staff including Frank 
Viola, Dwight Gooden, David 
Cone and John Franco just to 
name a few. This big name, big 
dollar pitching staff has compiled 
only a 3.49 ERA versus the Pi
rates 3.48. The Bucs staff con
sists of a bunch of no names with 
very small salaries. In the East, 
I will have to take Pittsburgh 
with their young enthusiastic 
team, but keep in mind that it 
will all come down to the October
1, 2 and 3 head to head series
versus the Mets in Pittsburgh. 
Whoever wins the East will have 
an easy time over Cincinnati, but 
will meet a roadblock in Oakland.
On the lighter side, Atlanta was 
not the first team eliminated from 
the playoffs, this year the honor 
goes to Minnesota who won the 
World Series a short five years 
ago. And finally, Seattle still has 
a chance at going .500 for the first 
time in franchise history, but it 
will be difficult. The are currently 
four games below .500 and must 
win at least 11 of their remaining 
18 games to do so. The Mariners 
future looks very bright though. 
They are fielding a team consisting of all star Ken Griffey Jr. 
playing and batting next to his 
father and former all star Ken 
Griffey Sr. who will return next 
year as the only father son combi
nation ever to play together. They 
also have a young and talented 
pitching staff including Mike 
Schooler (30 saves, 2.25), Eric 
Hanson (13 9), Brian Holman (11- 
11) and Randy Johnson (13-8). 
Holman and Johnson both took 
no-hitters into the ninth inning, 
the 6' 10" all star Johnson com
pleting the feat against Detroit.Caleb Cohen is a sophomore majoring in math and computer science.
year.
GolfCommissioner 
Garrey Long, x4125 
The 1990 E.J. Birdy Open in
tramural golf tournament will be 
played on the Schenley Park golf 
course on Sunday, September 23.
Register as a four-person team 
or as an individual. Tee off any 
time after & am and turn score 
cards into the IM office.
Clubs can be rented for $5 and 
the green fee is $6. For additional 
information, call Garrey or the 
IM office.
UPCOMING SPORTS
Entries Due Thursday:
 Cross country 
Water polo
 Chess
Pick up entry forms at the IM 
office.
Male Su bjcat sianuga bioojd
PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PARTY P^^tegTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY
PARTY PARTj^fcTi' PARTj^^BS^ARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY 
PARTY PARTYS||^jRTY pIlnf^feTY PART^ARTY PARTYEASTY PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PAINTY PARTY PARTY-ARTY PARTY#ATY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PAlgpfRTY PARTY PARTY P/fP|fY PAl.R/t' PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PAlWHBrY egiMloUiMvs PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY^Bp PWW PARTY PfflW^ARTY 
PARTY PART^^TY PARTY PART|*g|PARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY 
PARTY ety,PeMb egiMb euyyyhMb egiMb egiMb egiMb 
egiMb 11t1rMb egiMb etyt,Cb PARTY PARTY PARTY 
PARPi^MMpiRTY PAKTY PARHTARTY PARTY PARTY PARTY 
PARrfflmARTlMg&PARTY PARTY PA^RTY PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PffiW PARTY PJWfWY PARTY 
PARTY PARTY pMfKHh' PARTY PAgff|Kp' PARTY 
PARTY PARTY wHPrPARTY PARTYSBpIp^ARTY 
PARTY PARTY PARTY PAMMteiTY PAffl^ARTY 
PARTY PARTY PARTl^MPARTY PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PART^BRHARTY PARTY 
PARTY PARTY egiMtoyooeaiMb PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PAR^ARTY PARTY 
PARTY PARTY PARTYPARTY PARTY 
PARTY ^Sfe.PARTY PARTY 
egi7tttoaiMb PARTY 
PARWARTY PARTY 
PAFflSpPTY PARTY 
PARTYPARTYPARTY 
PARTY PARTY 
PARTYPARTY 
PARTY 
PARTY
?
<n 
 
* <ia
2 NON O Q.
ITS TIME FOR DOMINO S PIZZA
681-1700
315 N. CRAIG ST.
G
Medium - 8 slices 
Large -12 slices
521-2970
623 GREENFIELD AVE.
3
CHEEZE PLEAZE 1 POST GAME PIZZA  PARTY PLEASER ' CMU .SPECIAL
r MEDIUM ORIGINAL 
| HAND-TOSSED CHEESE
PIZZA
 AND 4 FREE CANS OF 
COKE
I
I TWO MEDIUM ORIGINAL 
I HAND-TOSSED 1-ITEM
Coupon nocot lay. Noi raid iti any on odor. Valid 11 panidpatng bcalicm only. Ta noi Indudod
I HURRYI Coupon Eipus &3&90
LARGE ORIGINAL 
1 HAND-TOSSED CHEESE 
a PIZZA AND 4 FREE CANS 
OF COKE
ANY PIZZA ANY SIZE 
PAN OR ORIGINAL 
HAND-TOSSED
! *8" ! $1  a
Coupon nteojtay. Nol rakd wlh ony I
HURRY! Coupon Eipiret 9/3080HURRY! Coupon Ejp'iu MOW

---------------------------------------------------

Volume 85, Issue 3
Crowds 
flock to 
Gesling 
shutout
By ANDREW COSENTINOtartan Staffwriter 
& DEXTER T. KOBAYASHITartan Features Editor
Saturday night: The cool evening 
jr, tailor-made for a college football 
me, was charged with anticipation. 
The 3,500 stadium seats had not quite 
lied and the pre-game scene was 
winding down as everyone migrated 
towards the game.
[A football game was about to cel
ebrate the return of Tartan Football to 
MU.
I The stadiums welcome arrival 
marked the end of home games being 
played at Mt. Lebanon. The general 
opinion of the new stadium was that 
it was very nice, but not everyone 
eed that it was an improvement 
rer the old Tech Field.
! Bruce Thompson, a 24 year old CMU 
alum and an employee of Red Zone 
Robotics  a spinnoff of CMUs 
Robotics Institute, expressed deep 
sorrow over the growing number of 
similarly colored buildings. I pre
ferred the bathroom-style tiling of 
Donner Hall, he said.
1 Up until the beginning of the game, 
volunteers from SDC continued 
handing out free commemorative key 
chains and members of the mens and 
womens basketball team kept on 
selling programs for a 50 percent 
profit.i The members of A Phi O worked the 
concession stand, selling everything 
from pizza to umbrellas. They also 
served as an impromptu information 
desk. The oddest question we had 
was, Whats an umbrella? Obviously 
not a Pittsburgh native, said Mary 
dampbell, a senior in CIT.
Lee, a senior in H&SS and
The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania17 September 1990
The crowd filled the seats of Gesling Stadium on Saturday and cheered the Tartans to victory.Alex Pathos Jr./Tartan Photographer7) A
another member of A PM 0, was 
impressed by the turnout, As a 
freshman, in 87,1 was surprised by 
the apathy of the students at Tech 
Field, he said. But now Im surprised 
at the over 5,000 fans rooting for the 
football team.
By halftime, the Tartans were up 35 
to 0 and Bill Gesling himself walked 
onto the field and addressed the 
crowd. Some alumni expressed dissat
isfaction with the name of the new 
stadium, but some felt the change 
from Tech Field to Gesling Sta
dium provided CMU with a new 
mascot. Said senior Gerry Gagnon, 
The name Gesling Stadium is 
actually an improvement. Now we 
finally have a mascot: baby geese.
The Kiltie Band played an early 
rock retrospective during the halftime 
ceremonies. Said band director Paul 
Gerlach, The acoustics of this sta
dium are much better than Tech 
Field.
Added Kilte Band President Dean 
Grannes, sixth year student in CIT, 
Its much nicer to walk on firm 
artificial grass. This field is also much 
easier to play on after rain. Previ
ously, members of the Kiltie Band 
were required to play on rain soaked 
mud during rainy games.
During the fourth quarter, with the 
score irrevocably set in the Tartans 
favor, CMU fans in the audience 
waved the large metallic key as a 
clanking sign that the maroons were
running out of time. Hence, the advent 
of what will hopefully become a CMU 
football tradition ... The Terrible Key 
Chain Wave!
As the game came to a close, mem
bers of the CMU crew team began 
cleaning up after everyone. The crew 
was paid $200 for its services.
According to Sergeant Richard Sima, 
there were only three small incidents in 
an otherwise very pleasant event. 
Some photographers were told to get off 
of Resnik Halls roof, some items were 
thrown out of a third story window, and 
during the middle of the game, some
one blew a whistle that the players 
mistook for a referees whistle. The 
game continued, but no suspects were 
apprehended.
Alex Pathos Jr./Tartan 
Robert Mehrabian gestures to the 
audiance during his dedication, 
speech at half time.
Ignatius Sasmita/Tartan Photo Staff Manager Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer Ignatius Sasmlta/Tartan Photo Staff Manager
Tartans were beating Univercity of Chicago 35-0 at half-time. In the second half of the game, the Tartans scored one more touchdown to
D.A. Henderson/Tartan Darkroom Manager
Nichols/tartan Senior Photographer1
Above: Billy Price and the Keystone River Band entertained on Th 
Cut as part of the opening ceremonies of the new Gesling Stadium.
Left: The Color Guard marches on during a half-time exhibition. ^
fife
rfeiO
Jio3

---------------------------------------------------

PITTSBURGH...
Area brewery celebrates first anniversary
.Above: A couple kiss while holding a commemorative 
janniversary mug.
JfRight The Allegheny Brewery stands on the 107 year old 
site of the original Eberhardt and Ober brew house.
Below: Brewhouse patrons sit and relax in the rustic 
..atmosphere.
.V-.
By DAN HOLLANDTartan Staffwriter
Prost! A German toast was made in 
the crowded pub. The jazz was loud 
and the beer was good  a taste of old 
Germany. Some dressed in ties and 
coats; others sported t-shirts and 
jeans. It was a festive atmosphere at 
the Allegheny Brewery on the North 
Side last Wednesday, and for good 
reason. They were celebrating their 
first anniversary with a party at the 
newly renovated brew house.
The president and founder of the 
Allegheny Brewery, Thomas V. 
Pastorius unveiled his newest pride, 
Oktoberfest Beer, an amber brew just 
out of the vats. The band, the Boiler
maker 5, all CMU graduates, played 
nonstop throughout the night, even 
making their way onto the cobblestone 
courtyard on the side of the brewery. 
Everyone waited patiently as the 
precious liquid emptied from the taps 
in an endless stream.
Nestled in an inconspicuous location 
halfway up Troy Hill, in clear view of 
the Heinz plant, the Allegheny Brew
ery is a prime example of historic 
renovation. It took $3.5 million, help 
from the North Side Civic Develop
ment Council, and a careful hand to 
restore the 1883 Eberhardt and Ober 
brew house which closed in 1951.
In 1986, when Pastorius bought the 
abandoned brewery, the structure and 
the community was in shambles. But 
Pastorius did not accept the decay. He 
saw something more. His eyes lit up 
as he began to envision a shiny new 
brewery and pub, importing brewing 
equipment directly from Germany 
itself. Today, Pastorius is celebrating 
that vision in grand style. The 
brewery definitely has a positive 
impact on the community, he said. 
We employ 42 people and house 14 
other companies in our building.
The tasteful brewmaster is a direct 
descendant of Franz Daniel Pastorius 
who founded the Germantown section 
of Philadelphia in 1683. So it comes as 
no surprise to the Pastorius family 
that quality and heritage go hand in 
hand.
The pride of Pastorius is his famous 
Penn Pilsner and Penn Dark beers.
But the sole brewing is done by the 
Head Brewmaster, Ivan Obrknez. 
Sitting among the beer drinkers, the 
Toronto native explained to me that 
beer has to be conscientiously brewed 
with sound work. But not all brewing 
is glorious. Most of what I do is clean 
the equipment, he yelled over the 
noise of the band. Everything has to 
be absolutely sterile or you risk infec
tion and bacteria buildup.
In Germany, beer-making is taken 
seriously. He even has an apprentice, 
Marcus Loesch, direct from Stuttgart, 
West Germany, who is currently 
studying brewery science and beverage 
technology. But here in the states, 
according to Ivan, most breweries 
make a watered down tasteless brew.
In fact, says Ivan, We are one of four 
breweries in the United States which 
adhere to the German Purity Law of 
1683 which stipulates that you can 
only use four ingredients: water, hops 
wheat, and yeast. He says the yeast 
is the crucial ingredient. It eats the 
wheat and hops, producing alcohol and 
carbon dioxide, or as Ivan says, yeast 
farts. But what all that means to the 
end product is a very pure, full bodied 
taste.
The Allegheny Brewery is a rarity of 
sorts. It is the smallest capacity 
brewery in Western Pennsylvania out 
of the four that remain in this area: 
Latrobe (Rolling Rock), Jones 
(Stoneys), and Iron City. Many 
consider the Allegheny Brewery to be a 
micro-brewery (less than 10,000 
barrels per year, compared to 700,000 
barrels at Latrobe, one million at Iron 
City, and 72 milhon at AnheuserBusch). Instead, Pastorious sees it as 
a specialty brewery catering to the 
tastes of Pittsburgh. There is no lega] 
definition of a micro-brewery in Penhsylvania, he says coyly. Either you 
are a brewery or you are not.
Pittsburgh used to be home to 166 
breweries within its boundaries alone. 
In fact, where the Allegheny Brewer}' 
stands used to be called Deutschtown 
and shared the street with four other 
breweries. But many could not keep 
up with newer technology, growing 
competition from larger capacity 
breweries, and stiff prohibitionary 
laws.
Four breweries remained for a short 
while after the fateful 1919 law of 
Prohibition: the Tube City Brewery in 
McKeesport (1903-1955), the Fort Pitt 
Brewery (1906-1957), and the 
Duquesne Brewery on the South Side 
(1900-1972). The Iron City Brewery, 
however, survived with a larger 
brewing capacity and better innova
tions. It was formerly the Frauenhei 
and Vilsack Brewery, and bottled the 
first Iron City beer in 1861, before 
moving to its present location on 
Liberty Avenue in 1866. It remains 
the sole survivor of the great brewery 
network which adorned Pittsburgh.
But out of the ashes rose the Allegh
eny Brewery.
Today, the Brewery has more orders 
than it can fill. It distributes its draft 
beer only in the city but its bottles 
come from the Jones Brewery in 
Smithton, PA and travel to New 
Jersey, Ohio, Maryland, and West 
Virginia. Their next big events are the 
Oktoberfest celebration, held during 
September 21-23, and 28-30. And 
dont miss the Allegheny Brewerys 
German Unification Party on October 
3rd. For a taste of the Old Country 
and some rip-roaring Dixieland Jazz 
on Fridays, Saturdays, and Sundays, 
try the Allegheny Brewery on for size. 
To get there, take the 16th Street 
Bridge from Downtown to the North: 
Side, take a right and head one block 
up Troy Hill. On your left is Vilsack 
Street and the Allegheny Brewery.
All photos by Thomas Nichols/Tartan Senior Photographer
1
Pa rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSp
Above: Head Brewmaster Ivan Obrknez and Apprentice Marcus Loesch 
Right: The Boilmaker 5 play up a storm during the first anniversary festivities.

---------------------------------------------------

rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSp5c
iodef Shalom celebrates completion of $9 million restoration
By TRUPTI PATELtartan Staffwriter
The Rodef Shalom Temple, 
situated on Fifth Avenue near 
^.Morewood, celebrates the 
completion of a $9 million resto
ration project. Rodef Shalom 
Congregation has planned ayear. long series of events and festivi
ties, which began in the first week 
of September and will end Some
s'time in May 1991, to mark the 
opening of the newly recon
structed temple. t:. Some of the upcoming events 
I at the Shadyside temple are lecj tures by Mr. Donald Wilkins of I the Pittsburgh Oratorio Society 
I and Bishop Donald W. Wuerl and 
"musical entertainment from 
public radio personality Karl 
f'Haas.
j The reconstruction ofthe temple 
commemorates the long and col
orful history of the Jewish com
munity in Pittsburgh.
Although the Rodef Shalom 
Temple itself will be celebrating 
its 83rd anniversary, the history 
of the temple and the people who 
worked so hard to bring it to life 
extends far further back than the 
year 1907.
The Rodef Shalom Congrega
tion received its charter in 1859. 
A state approved charter allowed 
the congregation to erect a 
building and establish a school 
for the children of the Jewish 
community.
The original Rodef Shalom 
Temple, built in 1862, was lo
cated on what is now 8th street in 
Pittsburgh. This was the proud 
site ofthe only synagogue in all of 
western Pennsylvania at that 
time.
However, the Jewish popula
tion in Pittsburgh grew rapidly
The Reform movement combines 
Jewish ethics with American democratic ideals.
C Florence Rosner, 
congregation member
and dissent among the members 
ofthe congregation began to grow 
as a result of the Reform move
ment which had started in Ger
many.
A majority of Rodef Shaloms 
members, who had been part of 
an originally Orthodox congrega
tion, decided to pursue the chal
lenge of instituting the Reform 
movement within the temple.
According to congregational 
member Florence Rosner, The
Reform movement combines 
Jewish ethics with American 
democratic ideals. The reforms 
within the temple include sexu
ally unsegregated seating inside 
the temple, the installation of an 
organ, the discontinuation ofmen 
wearing a yarmulke (hat), and 
dispensing with the tradition of 
eating only kosher foods.
Despite the fact that an Ortho
dox minority in the congregation 
decided to split from Rodef Sha
lom, the new Reform congrega
tion continued to expand quickly. 
Plans were made to move the site 
of the Rodef Shalom Temple to 
Fifth and Morewood Avenues.
The new building cost $250,000 
to construct and was designed by 
architect Henry Hombostel, the 
same architect which Andrew 
Carnegie chose to design the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology. 
Hombostel combined an innova
tive and unique form of modern 
architecture with traditional de
sign to develop a beautiful temple 
for the Rodef Shalom Congrega
tion.
However, age and the elements 
had succeeded in damaging both 
the structure and the ornamenta
tion of the eighty-three year old 
building.
This may be the reason the 
Rodef Shalom Congregation de
cided to undertake a five-phase
restoration plan.
The restoration would bring a 
building of great historical sig
nificance within the Jewish Re
form Community of Pittsburgh 
back to life.
Phases I and II of the project 
included restoration of the roof 
and the Temple exterior. Phase 
III involved securing windows and 
replacing the marble in seyeral 
areas. Finally, phases IV ai>d V 
took care of repair both inside; and 
outside the Temple for structural 
reinforcement.
A private tour ofthe refurbished Temple will be given Tuesday, September 18 at 3 pm for -both congregations and members ofthe general community. Information concerning upcoming events at the Temple, located at 4905 Fifth Avenue, is available by calling 621- 6566.
Artist Joe Lewis discusses art, life, and choices
Jason Irwin/Tartan Photographer
Joe Lewis talks about controversial subjects with CMU students
By JASON ERWINTartan Staffwriter
Joe Lewis has proven himself to be a versatile, 
powerful artist  versatile in the media he uses, 
ranging from Ivory soap to Gummy Bears, and 
powerful in the issues he addresses, from AIDS 
and abortion to seclusion.
In alecture onWednesday in Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall A21, Lewis discussed his life and 
art work to a full audience. It was a serious 
discussion laced with humor.
He jumped from a discussion of an art piece, to 
a display of slides of himself and the only other 
black people he could find while staying in Boul
der, Colorado. His first impression, he said, was 
that there were no black people in Boulder. But 
with persistence, he managed to find about 90 
other black people and had his picture taken with 
each of them.
In one of his pieces on AIDS, he presented a 
sculpture of the HIV virus with a series of three 
photos behind it, each expressing a way in which 
the virus can be transmitted. The photos were 
developed through a special process which brought 
out the color of the grain in the paper adding to the 
effect of each photo.
Dealing with the controversial subject of abor
tion, Lewis presented a sculpture in the shape of a 
womans womb carved in four stone blocks along 
with the form of a clothes hanger and the word 
choice. Women have the right to do what they 
want with their bodies, and people the right to not 
be pro-choice, said Lewis.
Lewis has always been open to new mediums and 
techniques, One thing that no one talks about is 
that graffiti, for better or worse, made us look at our 
environment differently in terms of scale, move
ment, and perception. But it also points to the fact 
that no one group has a stronger hold on developing
new aesthetic criteria.
His appreciation for graffiti most likely has to do 
with his involvement with Fashion Moda, in which 
he was a key organizer, and the fact that he grew up 
on the Lower East side of New York. This ability to 
experiment with new media has led him to use 
materials such as soap for a pure symmetrical form, 
and Gummi Bears in the representation of the 
human body.
Since becoming a temporary CMU Fine Arts staff 
member he has made a good impression on his 
students.
Ashley Sargent, a freshman in CFA attending 
Lewiss 2-D class, says, He is open minded and 
always gives a positive point of view. But he is still 
able to give constructive criticism.
Most important to Lewis is the knowledge that he 
has achieved what so many have strove for  he 
maintains his livelihood doing what he loves best: 
creating.
A Persons Opinion
Recently, the University undertook a large expansion and reconstruction project. This expansion and reconstruction involved, among other things, the construction ofthe new stadium.Several years of planning and construction were required to make the goal of a new stadium a reality.In fact, Carnegie Mellon athletic teams, including football, were forced to play in areas off campus for two seasons.However, now that the Universitys newly-christened Gesling Stadium is finally complete, there is the question of whether students are satisfied. The Tartan ventured to ask students their opinion about the new stadium.
Theo Fried 
Sophomore, CFA
I saw it as a choice between 
financial aid and the football sta
dium. The administration chose 
wrong.
Kurt Luitwieler 
Freshman, MCS
Well, first of all, its not a foot
ball stadium. Its a soccer field. 
Its well built, its great to have 
the field back on campus, and it 
drains well.
Myles Harrington 
Class of 86, GSIA
It looks nice. But it would be 
nice if people could use the field 
without being chased off of it.
John Simon Mary Grace Strauss
Senior, MCS Senior, H&SS
I like it. It looks really nice. Its 
better than the way it was before. 
Its definitely a lot roomier.
It looks a lot better than it 
did before and the turf looks 
really professional. I think that 
they put the money to good use 
because this school needs more 
spirit.
Judith Franz
Professor of Physics, West Virginia University and 
President of the American Association of Physics Teachers
Women in Science and Engineering
Tuesday, September 18, 1990 
3:30 p.m.
Wherrett Room, Skibo Hall
(A student/faculty panel discussion will follow the lecture.
Bringing it All Back Home: The Carnegie Mellon Experience, 
co-sponsored by the Howard Hughes Medical Institute Under
graduate Biological Science Educational Initiative.)
The Presidents Distinguished Lecture Series is organized by 
Faculty Senate, chaired by History Professor John Modell and
funded by the Office ofthe President. ^ ^ ofJen t() the pubUc

---------------------------------------------------

5wrne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o 17 uehMe17ei PSSp
Need for cable television spurred by vomitous music videos on tv
Pittsburgh can be an 
unforgiving town for the illequipped.
Television reception is a good 
example. For the past two weeks 
my, rabbit-eared, bottom-of-theline Emerson thirteen-inch-noncable-ready-completely-rudimentary-be-thankful-that-atleast-it-has-an-on-off-switchbarely-color television has receiyed only three channels. Two 
ofthe channels are public televi
sion stations which have been 
synchronized in order that no 
master when one attempts to 
watch television, both stations 
wilj be on pledge break simulta
neously.
The third station is this thing 
called the Video Jukebox Net
work.
. The Video Jukebox Network 
operates on the ideals of freedom 
of choice which made this country 
great. The channel plays the most 
annoying promos known to man 
ujitil a viewer calls and selects a 
video, from a continuously scroll
ing, menu on the lower left side of 
the. screen (Selection # 1010, 2 
Live Crew  Me So Horny; Se
lection #1011, M.C. Pillsbury and 
the 2 Large Crew  Me So Hungry , Selection #1012; 2 Live Jews
 Oy. Its Humid\ and so on, and 
so; on, and so on). In one hour of 
viewing there appeared four dif
ferent parody versions of the 2 
Live Crews anthem to libidinous 
illiteracy.
The viewer pays $2.50 for the 
privilege of selecting the next 
video. As I first settled down to 
watch the Video Jukebox Net
work, I thought that no one would 
tr^ily want to spend $2.50 on 
playing a video over the television. 
I ^vas wrong. Anybody who sits 
do;w(i to watch the Video Jukebox 
N^t^vork on a weekday between 
th hours of 3:30 and 7pm will be 
subjected to a perverse Moebius
WHO IS JAVI?
by Javier Grillo-Marxuach
Strip consisting entirely of seem
ingly endless repetitions of the 
Jon Bon Jovi Blaze of Glory video 
and the New Kids on the Block 
video for the song Tonight.
As vomitous as the New Kids 
may be, they are merely the 
symptom of an embarassing dis
ease which has overtaken the 
media. The disease is the cel
ebration of a nonexistent past. 
Consider for example the lyrics to 
the aforementioned New Kids 
song. During one of the verses, 
the New Kids ask the question 
remember when we were just 
hangin tough.
Yes, I remember, it was less 
than a year ago. I also remember 
when the New Kids were just 
searching for the right stuff. It 
was about the same time. Thanks, 
I was trying to forget.
Where the Beatles waited the 
requisite ten years before re
cording The Long and Winding Road; the New Kids have chosen 
to look back fondly upon the last 
six months as a time of painful 
personal growth and maturation.
Obviously, the New Kids must 
be hoping to get all of those thir
teen year old fans to look back to 
those innocent days when they 
were only twelve.
The New Kids also warble about 
the buttons and the pins and the 
live fanfare. At least there exists 
the hope that they are mourning 
for royalties they have long since 
spent on music lessons.
It doesnt stop with the New 
Kids. A walk down to any record
store will reward you with impec
cably displayed copies of Great
est Hits albums by Paula Abdul 
and Milli Vanilli, both of whom 
have had all of one distinguished 
LP before launching into major 
retrospectives of their respective 
careers.
Each one of these acts has also 
released a video single which 
features scenes from their earlier 
videos. Not only are these acts 
rehashing their old songs for our 
edification, they are also rehash
ing their old videos in order to 
properly catalogue their rehash
ing of their old songs. It only 
stands to reason that if we are to 
wax nostalgically for the lack of 
creativity of the past two years, 
we should do itin the least creative 
manner possible.
The music industry, then, is the 
perfect microcosm of a greater 
trend which approaches the past 
as something to be compressed 
and rewritten. Five years ago, the 
New Kids were probably listening 
to that wizened master of the 
golden oldie, Michael Jackson. 
Two years after their meteoric 
rise, they must have some sort of 
import, since their management 
saw fit to historicize them by 
producing a song about their long 
forgotten past.
On the other hand, Richard 
Wagner had to wait over 100 years 
after his death before the 
Wagners Greatest Hits CD was 
released. Of course, one has to 
take into account that Wagner 
did have to wait for the CD format 
to be invented and made available 
to the general public before his 
CD was released. Considering 
that compact disc prices came 
down far enough for general public 
consumption at around 1983, that 
still puts Wagner seven years up 
on the New Kids.
In case you were wondering, 
thats 160 years for Ludwig Van
A Request for Nominations for the 1990-91 
Carnegie Mellon Education and Teaching Awards
The Doherty Prize
The Doherty Prize is awarded to members of the University community 
|who have made substantial and sustained contributions to excellence 
in education. The prize is intended to recognize contributions to the 
development, implementation, and evaluation of education programs 
at all levels, and to the creation and maintenance of an environment 
that fosters excellence in education. All current and retired full-time 
employees of the University are eligible to be nominated. Nominations 
may be made by any group of three or more persons, each of whom is 
either a current or retired faculty member or administrator or a current 
or former full-time undergraduate or graduate student. Nominations 
should be in the form of a letter of no more than two pages, addressed 
tp Barbara Lazarus for the Doherty Prize Committee, EDSH 209. 
Nominations must be received by Friday, October 26, 1990 to be 
considered for this academic year. When a nominee is a finalist, the 
proposer(s), will be asked to assist in preparing a full nomination 
package.
The Ryan Award
The Ryan Award is intended to recognize excellence in teaching 
undergraduates in several dimensions. They include classroom teaching, 
student advising, supervision of undergraduate research or creative 
projects, and supervision of undergraduate honors students. AH 
regular Carnegie Mellon faculty members are eligible for nomination. 
Nominations may be made by any group of at least three persons, each 
of whom is either a current or retired faculty member or a current or 
former full-time undergraduate or graduate student. Nominations 
should be in a form of a letter of no more than two pages addressed to 
Ted Fenton for the Ryan Committee, EDSH 203. Nominations must 
be received by Friday, October 26, 1990 to be considered for this 
academic year. When a nominee is a finalist, the proposer(s), will be 
asked to assist in preparing a full nomination package.
Wp look forward to receiving nominations from students, faculty and 
administrators. Guidelines or advice regarding the Doherty Prize are 
available from Barbara Lazarus, EDSH 209, x6995, regarding the Ryan 
Award from Ted Fenton, EDSH 203, x2896.
"The music industry... is the perfect 
microcosm of a greater trend which 
approaches the past as something to 
be compressed and rewritten.
C Javier Grillo-Marxuach
Beethoven, 192 for Wolfgang 
Amadeus Mozart and 13 years for 
Shaun Cassidy, but whos count
ing?
Is history so trivial that the 
most requested selections on the 
Video Jukebox Network are to 
become the stuff of the media time 
line? No. That is why I recently 
became a proud subscriber to 
Cable Television. Not that it was 
an easy road toward the proud 
subscribership of Cable Televi
sion, and Im not referring to the 
many nights of youth I spent 
sneaking downstairs between 
10:00 and midnight hoping to 
catch a glimpse of an R rated 
movie without waking my p arents 
up.
It all began three weeks ago 
with a phone call. I was put on 
hold  and being put on hold by 
the cable company is a unique 
experience, because while you are 
on hold, the cable company plays 
a recording of promos for all of the 
movies, shows, and specials that 
you are missing because you are 
spending your time being on hold 
with the cable company and not 
watching the television as you 
should.
The operator informed me that 
I would have to wait three weeks 
before the technician would be 
able to arrive at my home to install 
the cable box.
Fair enough. As long as I could 
manage to avoid watching the 
Video Jukebox Network for the 
coming three weeks, all seemed
to be in order. I made arrange
ments to skip out on all of my 
classes on the date the cable com
pany gave me, and all because my 
home was going to be graced, not 
by a cable man, not by the cable 
company employee, but by the 
TECHNICIAN. And so three 
weeks passed in which I passed 
the time staring at the blank 
mocking face of my rabbit-eared, 
bottom-of-the-line Emerson thirteen-inch-non-cable-ready-completely-rudimentary-be-thankfulthat-at-least-it-has-an-on-offswitch-barely-color television, 
with visions of CNN, HBO, MTV, 
TNN, TMC, TNT, TBS, and QVC 
dancing in my head.
Naturally, once the date ar
rived, I promptly received a phone 
call telling me that the Techni
cian had been unable to find the 
manager ofthe building and could 
not install the cable box. I replied 
that the manager had been in my 
apartment fixing the door, and 
that there could be no way that 
the technician could have missed 
either the manager or myself be
cause I had spent the day glued to 
the intercom awaiting the mo
ment of the Technicians arrival 
and the sound of the managers 
electrical saw could in no way 
mask the sound of the intercom.
The operator was adamant, 
claiming that the Technician had 
been to the building. I was quick 
to give the Technician the benefit 
of the doubt, as obviously he had 
been far too concerned with
Technical Things to notice the 
sign I had pasted on the door.
I asked the operator if the Tech* 
nician was going to return. She 
said he might. I asked her if he 
was going to return within the 
day. She said it was possible. I 
asked for a timeframe. She replied 
that it would be between 6 am 
and 8 pm I asked her if she was 
sure. She replied that if he came 
he would be here, and if he did not 
he would not.
She must have studied Zen.
The Technician arrived, and he 
was here too. He came through 
the doorway and introduced 
himself with the sweat-stained 
growl of WHERES THE TELE
VISION? Although all attempts 
were made to make it clear that' 
although the television had been 
put in the dining room for clean
ing purposes, it was preferable 
that it be installed in the living 
room. Such a feat was apparently 
beyond the reach of the 
Technicians ability and he ex
plained that he had to install 
where the television was. Before 
his logic could be properly refuted, 
the cable box and T.V. console 
became a delightful centerpiece 
to the dining room table. He then 
left us, with something of a flut
ter.
But more imp ortant things were 
now afoot! I was sitting at the 
head of the table, remote control 
in my grubby little hand, pressing 
the button, watching the image 
develop, reveling in each electron 
beamed from miles away and now 
gathering in my screen to make 
up the image of Jon Bon Jovi 
singing Blaze of Glory.
Almost makes one yearn for the 
good old days.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach is a senior English major who refuses to have anything in common with anyone in junior high.
HIGH HOLY DAY SERVICES
ROSH HASHANAH
Erav Rosh Hashanah Dinner Wednesday Sept 19,6:00 PM
Egalitarian Conservative Evening Service Wednesday Sept 19,8^10 PM
Egalitarian Conservative Morning Service Thursday Sept 20,9:00 AM
Reform Morning Service Thursday Sept 20,10:00 AM
Egalitarian Conservative Morning Service Friday Sept 21,9:00 AM
B'nal B'rlUi HUIel 
Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union 
Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union 
Kurtzman Rm, Wm. Pitt Union 
Ballroom, Wm. Pitt Union
Kiddush will follow the morning services.
All services are sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel and are open to all members of the university 
community. The services are held in the William Pitt Union located at the comer of Fifth Avenue 
and Bigelow Boulevard. Students will be meeting in front of Skibo 1/2 hour before services and 
walking over to the William Pitt Union. For additional information about home hospitality, 
schedule of services in local congregations, or to make a dinner reservation call 621-8875.
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL IS YOUR 
JEWISH CONNECTION ON CAMPUS

---------------------------------------------------

Sam Mastromattea/Tartan Photographer
rne rgiMgl o Ugilevse teyy,l o Pb uehMe17ei PSSp
------------ 
Living amidst the country music capitol of the world is less than enjoyable for some
What is it like to live in the 
middle of a tourist trap? I lived in 
one for fourteen years and was 
glad to leave. Especially since the 
tourist traps in Nashville revolve 
around a type of music that I 
HATE.
When I visit downtown, namely 
Music Row (the strip of cheap 
souvenir shops and overpriced 
museums), I am constantly bom
barded by the lovable faces of 
Conway Twitty, Hank Williams 
Jr., and numerous other sparkly, 
plastic stars.
 The funny part about all of this 
is that some people like it. There 
is an annual tourist holiday that
SOUTHERN COMFORT
____________by Alison Carter
goes on in Nashville called Fan 
Fair. If you can imagine an alien 
invasion, then you can imagine 
Fan Fair. Everybody who wor
ships an effigy of Dolly Parton 
will most likely be seen there. 
They will also be trying to fit in 
with the natives of Nashville by
Mil
I Secret to humor is revealed 
i in three simple steps
Since Ive begun life as a semiprofessional humorist, I cant tell 
| you how many people have come 
up to me, and asked Jason, how 
can I write funny things like you 
do. This has happened at least 
: onceI think.
There are two answers to this 
question. The first is to plagiarize 
my work. This is by far the easiest 
! solution. However, unless you are 
; prepared to deal with the firm of 
Horowitz And Horowitz, a group 
| of very successful copyright law| yers, who I have on retainer, I 
j would not recommend this 
method.
The other method is to adopt 
: some of the tricks of the trade
: that we humorists use. I will re! veal some of these, with the tacit 
| understanding that you will nei
ther use these methods to obtain 
[ a column in this periodical nor 
any others in which I may ap
peartheres enough competition 
already.
The Use Of Hyperbole:
Hyperbole, a form of extreme ex
aggeration, can be very funny.
For example, the sentence, John 
walked into his room and saw a 
duck sitting on his bed, is not 
; very funny. However, this state
ment can be exaggerated to John 
walked into his room and saw a 
hundred ducks sitting on his bed.
Now thats funny, particularly if 
 .you know John. The statement,
John walked into his room and 
; saw two-hundred ducks, is gutwrenchingly hysterical. There is 
a limit to everything, and hyperi bole should not be overdone. For 
example, there is almost no dif
ference in the humorous content 
; between the statement John 
walked into his room and saw an 
infinite number of ducks sitting 
on his bed, and the statement,
; John walked into his room and 
i saw an infinite number of ducks 
plus one sitting on his bed.
The Use Of Nonsense: One 
| important thing to note about 
writing humor is that it need not 
make sense. In fact, rapid, unex
pected changes in the norm make 
j for much more humorous situa
tions. By means of explanation,
! let us elaborate on the John/Duck 
example from before. John 
walked into his room and saw a 
mallard sitting on his bed. It had 
a brown head and neck. This is 
uproarious. Everybody knows 
that mallards have green heads 
and necks. When writing humor, 
one must throw logic out the win
dow and write whatever zany 
ideas one thinks will get a laugh.
The Use Of Understate
ment: Once you have set up a 
situation, such as Johns duck 
dilemma, it can be very funny to 
have the main character act very 
nonchalant about the whole weird 
situation. John walked into his 
room and saw a hundred [we dont 
want to make the joke too funny, 
too soon] ducks sitting on his bed.
wearing camouflage clothing. This 
camouflage consists of a red-neck 
tee shirt, tight satin pants in a 
heinous color, gross cowboy boots 
and a spray-painted cowboy hat 
bought from a street merchant 
who was trying to make a fast 
buck.
Is this how everybody in Nash
ville dresses? There are people 
who probably think so. There are 
even some people living in Nash
ville who do dress like that. But I 
usually only see them sitting 
around in downtown public parks, 
standing out like neon pink fla
mingos in the middle of a lawn.
I dont mean to insult the dedi
cated fans who drive their 
Winnebagos all the way from 
American Town, U.S.A. to come 
to Fan Fair and go to the Grand 
Ole Opry. Its just that some 
people take their affinity for 
Nashville too far. I definitely 
would not visit some place every 
year like it was Mecca, especially 
if its main attractions consist only 
of twanging guitars and singers 
whining about their troubles in 
canned studios.
You would expect fans of such 
garbage to end up just like Mr.
- and Mrs. Milquetoast from Idaho, 
dressed in tight sequined, cow
poke shirts and holding two cam
eras in each hand while arguing 
about whether or not to go first to 
the Wax Museum or to the Hall of 
Fame.
There are a few redeeming 
qualities to the types of music you 
will experience in Nashville. 
However, only natives with taste 
will ever be found at these repu
table musical establishments. 
One of these is the Bluegrass Inn, 
where such great talents as Doc 
Watson, Bill Monroe, and the New 
Bluegrass Revival have per
formed. There is little or no pres
ence of electric equipment there, 
except to amplify the sound of the 
native acoustic instruments, such
as the mandolin, guitar, fiddle-, 
bass, and autoharp. The electric - 
guitar was not used to create 
music in Appalachia during the - 
1880s, and those people who knnw 
what real country music is will 
know that.
If only the tourists could under-' 
stand... or at least acquire a little ; 
taste. But then Nashville needs 
the tourist industry to support ' 
itself. Talk about living off tAfe 
good (but stupid) deeds of otherst 
Alison Carter is a freshmahhh" CFA who would rather eat glass than listen to 24 hours of non-stop country music.
JASON SPEAKS
by Jason Lee Smith
Oh dear, said John, and went 
into the bathroom to brush his 
teeth. See, by doing this, you 
make it seem like John deals with 
that sort of thing everyday.
The Use Of Personal Experi
ence: Personal experience is a 
great well of ideas on which to 
draw. In fact, the whole John/ 
Duck story was actually about 
something that happened to my 
cousin Fred, only the situation 
involved rabbits. Feel free to use 
your favorite family stories or 
amusing anecdotesas long as 
theyre not copyrighted. Your 
family wont mind (or if they do, 
theres not a heck of a lot they can 
do about it). Always remember to 
change the names of everyone in 
the story though. That way you 
cannot get sued for slander.
The Use Of An Audience: 
Before submitting any piece of 
humor for publication, I always 
review it before an audience. The 
people who you choose for your 
audience are very important. I 
always choose invalids and the 
mentally disabled. I find these 
people are the easiest to convince 
to read your article to, as they are 
not usually able to get up and 
walk away. The mentally incom
petent are nice because they are 
very eager to laugh at your jokes.
In preparation for this article 
I told the following variation of 
the John/Duck story to my regu
lar audience:
One day John came home from work. He walked into his bedroom only to find two-hundred mallards sitting on his bed. They had brown heads and necks. Isnt t hat duckyXpuns are always an easy 
way to get a laugh], he said. And then went into the bathroom to brush his teeth.
I was highly gratified by the 
reaction I got. In fact, one mem
ber of our group, Otto, a large 
hefty man who enjoys holding 
kittens, could do nothing but shout 
two hundred! and laugh hys
terically until he began to turn 
blue. This shows the value of an 
audience.
Conclusion: I hope these 
pointers for humor have helped 
you. I would tell you more about 
subjects such as the finer points 
of irony and introductory satire; 
however, I feel that would be re
vealing too much. After all, even 
Robert Benchley had to start 
somewhere.
Jason Lee Smith is a Sophomore in CIT who says he also knows the secret to good sex.
Paint Your Heart Out. Pittsburgh!
In its first year at Carnegie Mellon, the Paint Your 
Heart out Pittsburgh program, cosponsored by PPG 
and the city of Pittsburgh, was organized on campus by 
the CMU Greek Council,. It drew inquiries from over 80 
sorority and fraternity members. On Saturday,, 
volunteers from eleven differen greek houses joined 
together to help with the up-keep of this East Liberty 
house and one other home in the North Aiken Street
Sam Mastromatteo/Tartan Photographer
Summer program offers opportunities to minorities
By SUZANNE BARTLETTTartan Staffwriter
When second semester finally 
ends, the majority of CMU stu
dents will have had quite enough 
of stress and get the first ticket 
out of here to find the sun or a job. 
However, not all of us disappeared 
last summer. In addition to sum
mer school, C-MAP and other 
summer activities, there was an
other group on campus working 
just as hard as they did during 
the year.
This was the first year for The 
Carnegie Mellon Minority Teach
ing/Research Fellowship Pro
gram. H&SS, with the support of 
a grant from the United States 
Education Department, organized 
a pilot program for minority 
students which included black, 
Latino, Native American, Pacific 
Islander and Alaskan Native stu
dents. The ten week program en
courages minorities to consider
futures in research, graduate 
school, and teaching.
Fifteen students were accepted 
into the program with full finan
cial support. Faculty members 
participate in the program as 
mentors. Each student is assigned 
a different research topic within 
the social sciences and a mentor 
with whom they work very closely. 
The curriculum also includes a 
variety of interesting workshops 
and seminars concerning careerplanning, teaching, and higher 
education.
When asked about the purpose 
of the program, senior Marvin 
Germany replied, A lot of presti
gious black and other minority 
professors all over the country 
are going to be retiring, and there 
will be a demand for black profes
sors and graduate students. The 
MFP was designed to motivate 
students and to encourage them 
to consider these options through 
research experience. Also, I think
much of it has to do with diver
sity. Diversity is a big issue now. 
A lot of universities want blacks 
and other minorities. 
Most of the students had al
ready decided to look into gradu
ate school, says Germany, and 
the program increased their mo
tivation. One impressive aspect 
of the program was the relation
ship between the student and the 
mentor. Germany is still meeting 
with his mentor, Dr. JohnModell, 
who works in the history depart
ment.
The program is being directed 
by Dr. Joseph E. Devine.
They were all in support of 
teaching. The majority of the 
mentors and leaders have very 
strong work ethics, which was 
nice, said Germany. Nothing is 
easy. If you disagree with what 
your history book is teachingyou, 
then do something about it. Write 
your own.
Most students worked alone
with their mentors on their 
projects. However, Germanys 
group received a grant to do an 
ongoing project with The New 
York Social Science Researfcti 
Council and five or six other uiu-: 
versities with similar research 
topics, including UCLA and UVA'. 
Their project has yet to be conn 
pleted.
The success ofthe program may 
attract more minorities to CMU 
and to the teaching profession. 
According to Germany, each stu
dent benefited from the program 
in different ways, and the Uni
versity will hopefully be a betted 
place for it later. Usually Id 
rather be in the shadows, but if; 
we, as a group, are doing some 
good work, then why not show it?*
For more information about The, Minority Teaching I Research, Fellowship Program, contdcl' University Relations 5017 Forbes Ave. Ext. 2900. v
Research information is now available on-line for undergraduate students
By RUSS BEDELL
Tartan Staffwriter
Undergraduate students at 
CMU now have an easier way 
to learn about research pros
pects.
The Directory of Opportuni
ties for Undergraduate Re
search and Creative Projects is
now on-line for access at Macin
tosh servers.
Begun last year, the directory 
is a complete listing of faculty 
members at CMU and their re
search interests, according to 
Senior Jessie Ramey, a key figure 
in getting the directory on-line 
over the summer.
The baby of Barbara Lazarus,
Assistant Provost for Academic 
Projects, the Directory catalogues 
special projects each department 
may have as well as research 
projects. At the end of each de
partment section, there are lists 
or prerequisites that a student 
may need to participate.
The number of people express
ing an interest in this has doubled 
since last year, says Ramey. Its
wonderful.
In addition to being on-line, the 
Directory is available to any stu
dent in the libraries, the Deans 
Office, the Academic Advisory 
Center, the Information Desks, 
and through the individual de
partment heads as a 200 page 
hard copy.
Ramey notes that all the col
legeshave sections in the Direc
tory, including CFA, GSA, and 
SUPA. Research centers on cam
pus are listed as well, from as big 
as SEI to as small as the Journal 
of Social History, comments 
Ramey.
There are hundreds of research 
opportunities here on campus and 
a lot of students dont know about 
them, Ramey remarks. It was 
really felt that a directory would
help make students aware of'all: 
the opportunities.
Some departments offer 
projects not exclusive to their 
partment listed in the Director^- 
EPP, for example, has severa]- 
projects that could be done in other 
departments. Ramey says that 
there are cross-overs, and a lot of 
students arent aware of whats 
out there.

---------------------------------------------------

Calvin and Hobbes by Bill WatersonDoonesbury by G. B. Trudeau
FIRST WE CALL WE ANSWER T AS IH "S DO WE CARE?" 
HOW S KIM B A 5UARE 
HUMBER, So WELL DRAW A 
SQUARE AHD MAKE TU\S SICE G AHO THAT S\0E 3. THEN 
WEIL MEASURE WEDtNSONAL.
HELP ME \ +3.EH? WELL, 
WITH THIS \ THIS OHE IS 
HOMEWORK, A BIT TRICKS.
OK? WHAT'S ^
G + 3 ? J
I DONT \ SUE PROBABLS REMEMBER \ DOESHT KNOW 
THE TEACHER HIGHER MATH. 
EXPLAINING WHEN SCO DEAL IF LIKE / WVTH HIGH 
THIS. 7 NUMBERS, 'lOV) 
HEED HIGHER 
X V MATU./^ v
BUT THIS X OK. HERE, I'LL 
DIAGONAL \ DRAW A BIOSES 
IS JUST A I SQUARE. LITTLE UNDER K^,_ ^TWO. J \
VIETNAM ^ES, SIR. BUT I pen? LIKE THIS MISSION\ ' A WHOLE LOT MORE!-y. . CLEAR GOAL5, VIA-TlS BLE STRATEGY, SUP0^3 PORTAT HOME!
YOU GOT A FAMILY?VIE TNAM ^ST,R .ABUA^pVeMnS, ,?L KL?LH OLLKAWAY FROM HER. SHE'S GOING 70 BE PRETTY LOST .WITHOUT ME.
WELCOMEABOARD,SOLDIER.
OH... THANK YOU, SIR!WELL, OKAY, BUT JU5T PINNER  I'M ENGAGED.
m. HO COMIC BCOtS 
UNTIL 'iOU FINISH SOUR HOMEWORK.
THAT DIDHT TAKE ) I D\D A VERS LOHG. 0\DJ GREAT JOB. SOU DO A r-Y WUEH YOU'RE 
GOOD JOB ? J AS FAR AHEAD 
OF WE CLASS /AS I AM, IT 
J . DOESNT TAKE 
n 'J MUCH TIME.
WELL WE'LL SEE ABOUT THAT 
WHEN I GET BACK FROM MS 
PAREHT-TEACHER COHERENCE WITH M\SS WORMWCD. ^
TM SURE IT 
WILL BE AN 
INFORM AT WE MEETING.
GOSH. I FORGOT 
TO TELL '(OU/ m> 
WORMWOOD SAID 
I WAS SO GOOD, 
SOU DIDHT HEED 
TO BOTHER COMING 
REAVLl' SHE f 
SAlD SOU PONT LwAVETOGG.' /
I PONT KNOW WHY THEY WANT ME. I'M A PRETTY SORRY EXCUSE FOR A SOL~ P/ER. I'M OUT OF SHAPE, I'VE FORGOTTEN ALL THE PRILLS, ICANT LOAD AN M-lb..
SO WHAT PO I'M AXXJ PO IN TALENT CJVIUAN UFE, MANAGER, SOLDIER? COLONEL.HOLU ABOUT YOURSELF,SIR?
TM A FLORIST. IT'S SEEN YEARS SINCE ANYONE'S CALLED ME "SIR"..^^^
I CANT EVN REMEMBER HOWTO USE THE F-IWRD!
EASY. YOU JUST USE IT LIKE A COMMA.I PIP
FINISH.WRE GOIHG TO 
IVTALKTO MS TENDER?
OH MAM' MOM WEHT 
TO A PARENT - 
TEACHER CONTEKtKE 
TM AS GOOD AS DEM). 
HISS WORMWCOD WIU 
TELL MOM All SORTS 
OF HORROR STORIES 
^ ABOJT ME/ >
HORROR
STORES'
WELL, ITS AU. A 
QUEST \ON OF 
PERSPECTIVE. 
STILL, I THIHK.
I SHOULD BE 
ALLOWED TO HAVE 
A LAMER PRESENT 
AT THE MEETING.
WHAT ARE SOU 
GOIHG TO SAH WHEN SOUR MOM 
GETS BACK ?
NOTHlHG ) BUDDS, IF SOU 
AT ALL?J THIHK L'M EVEN \ GOIHG TO BE HERE, r\\ SOU'RE CRAZH /
I'M SPEAKING WITH ONE OF THE NEW ARRIVALS, WHOSE NAME AND RANK ANP NATIONAL IDENTITY HJE CANNOT REVEALAT THtSTlME...
HERE ATAN UNP/SCLOSEP LOCATION, AN UNIDENTIFIEP TRANSPORT PLANE PfSGORGdP A CLASS!FIEP NUMBER OF COMBATANTS!
UM...OKAY, SO HE'S FROM AN \ ENGLISH - [SPEAKING f ARMY.
WHY THE HELL NOT?THIS IS ROLANP HEDISY, REPORTING FROM SOMEWHERE IN THE  MIPEAST! AHOTHlHG
HOW WAS SOUR 
MEETING WITH 
CALVINS TEACHER?
WELL, WHEM WE GOT TO THE 
CLASSROOM, WE SAW THAT 
ALL THE KIDS H&D DRAWN 
SELF-PORTRAITS \N ART CLASS 
AND HAD LEFT THE PICTURES' 
ON THEIR DESKS 90 THE 
PAREHTS WCOLD RECOGHVZE 
WEIR CHILDS SEAT.
THATS A \ WERE WAS ONE 
CUTE IDEA. I DRAWlHG OF A 
DID SOU GREEN KID 
FIND CALVIHS I WITH FAHGS. 
PICTURE ? J SIX ESES. AND 
his Finger
 I UP HIS HOSE.
GIMME A BREAK'. WE'RE HERE FOR CHEAP OIL! WE'RE HERE SO WE PONT NEED AN ENERGY POLICY! WE'RE HERB SO BUSH CAN DRIVE A BOAT SO OVERPOWERED TVS FA V0R3P BY DRUG SMUGGLERS!
PETER,I'M SPEAKING TOTWO NEW ARRIVALS IN THE GULF ^ TODAY-A RAW RECRUIT, ANP A SEASONEP RESERVIST! YOUR r> FIRST REACTIONS,
WELL, ITS A LITTLE WARM, BUT HEY, WE'RE HERE TO H6HT FOR.DEMOCRACY AND AGAINST__TYRANNY, AND THAT'S WHAT WERE GONNA (t/ ( <DO! I
THE MEETIHG 
WEHT DOWNHILL 
FROM THERE. -
THATS.THAT'SAWFUL!
SHE TOLD SCXJ ABOUT THE 
NOODLES, RIGHT? \T WNSHT 
ME.' NOBODS SAW ME.' t 
WAS FRAMED.' I WOULDHT 
DO AHSTW\NG L\KE THAT/- 
lM IHHOCEHT, I TELL SOU/
ByDAV everhthing kvss
WORMWOOD SAID ABOUT ME 
WAS A HE.' SHE JUST DOESNT 
LIKE ME.' SHE HATES LITTLE 
BOSS.' ITS NOT Mi FAULT/ 
>. I'M NOT TO BLAME/ ^
WHAT N 
NOODLES ?
CALVIN, IOH.... UH.... 
HAHA.' DID I 
SA'i NOOOLES ? 
Sou Mvjsr HK\E 
HEARD WtoHG. 
I D\DNT SM 
NOODLESPRETTYGRJMRATIONS, EH? OF COURSE, THIS IS A FEAST COMPARED TOTHEFARE I PINEP ON PURJNG THE SEVENPAY WAR! WE HAP TO PICK THE SCORPIONS OUT OF OUR V.__ STEW! \ V .
NOT THAT A FEW SCORPIONS W0ULDN7 HAVE TASTED PRETTY GOOD PURJNG THSOVILWAR IN ANGOLA ! AH, WELL, NO ONE EVER SAIPTT WAS EASY BEING A WAR CORRESPONPENT*
ESPECIALLY UM.. RIGHT.IF YOU ANY IDEALOOK LIKE WHERE I CANA DUCK GET ONE OFHUNTER. THOSE HEIMET57.
HEY. SOLDIER! MIND IF I JOIN YOU? .
MORE TIME?/ 
r ALREADX 
SPENT TEN 
WHOLE MINUTES 
ON IT/ TEH 
MINUTES SHOT.' 
WASTED/DOWN 
I THE DRAIN/
OK CALVIN LETS CHECK OiER 
YOJR MATU HOMEWORK. __^SOUVE WRTEN 
HERE 8+4 - 7. 
NOW SOU KNOW 
WATS HOT J 
s RIGHT. J
SOUR TEACHER 
SASS SOU NEED
SC celbr aCtl 
ss25 yU nsi
HAVE A SEAT. /
SCW CANT ADD ) 
WINGS AND I 
COME OUT ^ WITH LSS THAN lOU STARTED WITH;
MAN, THTS7HEWORST \PART-NEVER KNOWING WHAT'S GOING ON! I M B > REMEMBER WTT^X  FROM 'NAM! / /= 1 ^^t~WU~M^A CIGAR-]
YEAH... YEAN, I COULD. IHAVENT SMOKEP IN YEARS, BUT MAYBE n'LL SETTLE MY % NERVES. THANKS, g BUPPY! a
I CAN DO 
THAT.' \T'S 
A FREE 
COUNTRS/ 
IVE GOT 
Ml RIGHTS.'
ANYBODY HEARD ANYTHING ABOUT NOPE. PEPLOYMENT \
X I THE UP'SI BEEN ONFOR WEEKS.
A/NTWARABITCH?
OH, I PUNNO.
Calvin and Hobbes is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Press,Doonesbury is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette,
The Far Side by Gary Larson
The white whale! The whiiiiite wh ... No, no 
My mistake!... A black whale! A regular 
blaaaaack whale!"
The Far Side is a daily feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.
H lilllllllllllllllllllllll'.'
That time was just too close, George! Jimmy was 
headed straight for the snake pit when 
I grabbed him!"
Suddenly, Professor Liebowitz realizes he has cme 
to the seminar without his duck.
Early vegetarians returning from the kill.Humor at its lowest form.

---------------------------------------------------

STKAM6E WOMN FALL OUT OF THE SKY IN
FND 
 iJ]
7 26-8
colle
giate
cross
word
) Edward Julius Collegiale CW83-27
ACROSS
P t,lg0MeiD negk 
Q xskd0 hgiMlei 
Pp xhhyD ysvnMyD
Pc Ye2sglM ,le
Pw gzVn, vegi
Pq 5s;slv i,,1E sl 
uhgsl
mPQ UgMVn
Pb 9eei vgikel 0,zlk 
c 8k0m"
PS 5gMsl V,lNzlVMs,l
ap IygD0 8sMn gl 
ehel0e gVV,zlM
aa Oslk,8 V,;eislv
ac IeiMgslslv M, 
e;eiDkgD 1gMMei0
aq !rne ******** tzMslD!
aQ 9glL g77ie;sgMs,l
ab ug;e
cp iglk1g ********
cc rX V,1ekD 0eise0
cw -ielVn lz17ei
cq 9,kD ,2 0,yksei0
cQ Rgv
cb fg0Meil MsMye
cZ x 9,770eD M8sl
cS ri,z0ei0
wp Y,VMisle
wP BlMnglL2zy ,le0
wc Iie2s 2,i glvye
ww 9eVgz0e
wq Oglkei gs1ye00yD 
wS xVMie00 -ye1slv
qP 9,8yslvd0 xlMn,lD
qa Une1sVgy 0z22s
qc r,D hn,le 0,zlk 
nDhnm"
qq uee1 ieg0,lg7ye 
a 8k0m"
qb O,iL zlsM0
qZ YeMi,sM gMnyeMe
qS -ielVn is;ei
Qp J,gk0 g77im"
QP Ye2slsMeyDE sl 
uhgsl a 8k0m"
Qa Jz00sgl yg7,i vi,zh
DOWN 33
P Iie0elM 5gMm cQ
a x2isVgl yglvzgve
c 9evsllslv 2,i Vnsyk cb
,i 8g0n
w I,eMsV V,lMigVMs,l
q tsle*7,islv M,,y0
Q R,1e
b uMgksz1 0n,zM0
Z U,11,l 0MieeM lg1e
S x0Mgsie 0heVsgyMD 
a 8k0m"
Pp -,hhs0n 2eyy,8 
a 8k0m"
PP Oslv0
Pa uVi,,ved0 8,ik hym"qw 
Pq xygl 5gkk 2sy1 qQ
eM zh 
Is01sie 
$,sl 8esvnM* 
8gMVnei0 
3z1s01gMs0Md0 
0z7NeVM 
U,gvzygMe0 
IgiM ,2 2g1,z0 
0MieeM V,ilei
ugiMied0 !3, ********!
xVM,i 8n, hygDek 
Ig0Mezi 
u,l ,2 $zkgn 
flvgve sl Vg1h2sie 
gVMs;sMD a 8k0m" 
Osyk .lksgl 
7z22gy,
Yeis0s;e MnegMie 
0,zlk0
9iskye gMMgVn1elM 
9egiysLe gls1gy 
tz0NVgy 0Dyyg7ye0
Jzl ******** gi,zlk
Iie2s 1eglslv Mniee 
Iie2s 1eglslv ygive
!rne 7zMyei ********!
eM z0ek M, 
Yis;e 7gVL 
tgh g77ie;sgMs,l0
riz1heMei xP ********
u,l ,2 ueMn
!J,VLD ********!
9zv
These are the 
answers to last 
issues's puzzle.
ElQtililluililB HBIUQEE liililflOJHLl 0QO0000na Eiorjo ??00000 ?00 0E30000 00Q0 0QQU 0Q0O0 00000000 00{B 00000 00B00D 0000Q000 0000 0000 Q00B0000 000000 ?0000 00Q 00Q00 000 00000 0000 ?00B 0000D0 000 DB0O000 0000 00 @?00000 0Q00000 0000000 0000000
mis.
1H CAPTAIN HAS fiIUEH PfWlOMmmSM
"mm-HMtevi 
^t\FAceJ. ! A
\W!CG V. - tr'sor ~zaffi
J NO, NO . HE \' SAP TER \ CRYlN'mtW' 
( Wette / FM THIS/]
( P/P HE SAY Jt'VBf pm/ssep'
MU#0000
sur... maybe reAzswe \ ptATtJOfA-Hefipep face XHEWERd' PONT FINP \ \ m PflMmVOF\PIO&IN , V *' TH6IR. /
vA ftts )
D; X lfiTo/S
r WITH I PLfiN. iti ptsmcrTHE CREATURE MCME/JTAR/iy l ANPTHEN 5EIFLE5LY FLttfo / mOF ATHER SNAPPtm /
N30MUEHS
UWENMT/OfJ BEHUF OF OUR tfnce BARBARIAN BROTHERS ACROSS THE UNtVERSB,I SALUTE YOUR bACLANT f\5ACRlFlC6'
mpy 
yy w/F 
my*?
ERMEST GOES'
10,000 LEAGUES UKIDER THE SEA
utland is a weekly feature in the Pittsburgh Post Gazette.

---------------------------------------------------

F=^l~
PreJent!I P/yC^hr>
TNC.
[ni_de~S
? ? 
0 D
$
/bloke. hidden in' 
rVto*-^. .jbeJl/Juit oxidkt'r 
beau.fi/vl ''y 
ha-fe i n OaXlanii
J 
5-1
0.T oi/h v--y 
own *iX. -  *
)u1 u>ho-is ffvs ? A fy>ica)l^ coniusecL 
fre.shr>vin woi-iC-sfvjLy sTvUenf Jms /ef-/- 
Kij CffV Aoftboofc im the. lo,i>.
'X.mFoRTjffdT!\\ emu
/crffia'Js ncojrtize. Hu'S V 
~TWi<iile.. ~7~h/S bo. Come, s 
veny xnroKTnw -h vs
n oJootff -f-Airtc. fPoyieJs)
Nou; "/Kt. f>rololJ*>- -Sfc^T a. yml-fJeu/tt.
l'DLAX Hne. i*>e.e.k.
r. ~ ~
O O r? |
' '  s FOURT HHAV
< 5oow/ i / ^oon, i
_L spe.nt 3 ifo
Jhiv o(3j? &! *iuyllh}0*i C-leUtL, 
but f*]iche.[le. (Cy-/ lqvphi*y <k)~ J^.
Student Comics
Student-drawn comics are due the Friday 
before Monday publication.
Leave submissions in the Art/Comics Drop 
Off Drawer by Midnight in The Tartan office, 
Skibo 50. Or contact Bill Sabram @ x2111.

---------------------------------------------------

Broadways 
best arrives 
in Pittsburgh
By TERRI KASCH
Tartan Asst. Diversions Editor
Those of yoti who remember the last sea
son of the Pittsburgh Broadway Series know 
that the upcoming season has a tough act to 
follow. While they may not be able to top last 
season, they seem to have a good chance of 
matching it. This season they offer two sa
lutes to a pair of popular directors, three 
musicals, and one award winning drama.
The Music Of Andrew Lloyd Webber 
will start off this season. In this show, the 
best songs of Webbers many musical 
achievements will be performed with a full 
orchestra. Songs from hits like Cats, Jesus 
' Christ Superstar, and Webbers last musical 
Aspects of Love will be sung on stage. One of 
the performers in this show will be Sarah 
Brightman, the original Christine in 
I Webbers Phantom of the Opera. Pittsburgh 
i is one of only four cities in which Brightman 
I will appear. This show will run at Heinz 
Hall from October 16-21.
M. Butterfly, which took the 1988 Tony 
award for best play, opens at the Benedum 
I November 23 and will stay there one week. 
This remarkable drama starring Philip 
Anglim and A. Mapa is based on the true 
story of a French diplomat and his twenty 
year affair with an opera star. In the openIts just another 
variation of The Wall
courtesy Pittsburgh Broadway Series 
Sarafinaf musical celebration of South Afican High School students against apartheid, arrives in 
Pittsbur1 January 1.
press their hopes for the future of their country 
and their determination to be free with their 
lyrics. You can see this inspiring musical January
1-6.
Tommy Tunes latest accomplishment will also 
be coming to the Benedum. Grand Hotel opens 
with an old doctor hobbling out onstage, turning 
his back to the audience, and shooting a dose of 
ihe topical show Sara final has a group of morphine into his arm. This grim narrator then 
iack South African students singing the leads the audience through Berlins Grand Hotel, 
music of liberation. In this play they exPlease see BROADWAY, page L13
ing scee the diplomat is in jail for treason. 
The rpt of the play is a flashback of how his 
life bs arrived at this sad state. To say 
re about this play would be criminal, 
for /is is one of those wonderfully surprisvCoc where the less you know about it, 
t]7more enjoyable the experience of seeing 
i+/or the first time will be.
 Record Review 
???1/2 THE WALL LIVE IN BER
LIN 1990. By Roger Waters, 
PolyGram Records, Inc.
By MIKE SHAPIRO
Tartan Staffwriter
Had it not happened a decade 
too late, youd think that the 
Berlin Walls recent demolition 
was an exorbitant Pink Floyd 
promotion, perhaps with an 
emphasis on boosting overseas 
revenue. The parallels between 
the event and those of Roger 
Waters somber autobiographi
cal opus, The Wall, are so strong 
that the whole German 
reunification episode reeks of 
commercial contrivance.
Whatever the thinking behind 
it, Waters recent extravagant 
concert at the Berlin Wall has 
been digitized onto CD for the 
benefit of the consumer, who can 
now enjoy the chilling magnifi
cence of Pink Floyds legacy 
without drowning in a mob of 
Europeans.
Its all there: the wailing rivers
of guitar, the thundering per] 
cussion, the neurotic waves of 
orchestral power  all working-4 
in calculated synergy to make uij  
feel wonderfully miserable abou$*- 
Pink, the hypothetical rock ancjj 
roll god who serves as the album.f 
motif and as allegory for Waters*;! 
own desolate past.
And what would a massive livd 
production be without th(|< 
obligatory handful of guest art
ists? While a few eyebrows might * 
justifiably rise at the prospect of? 
Cyndi Laupers high-pitched* 
hiccouching doing any sort o.fjustice to Another Brick in the 
Wall Part II or Sinead OConnor 
crooning the Oedipal pathos of 
Mother, some of the invitees 
actually give outstanding per
formances. The Scorpions, for 
example, make a surprisingly 
strong opening with In the 
Flesh?; Van Morrison skillfully 
recaptures the cynically soothing^. 
tone of Comfortably Numb; an 
Bryan Adams gritty kinetics;;" 
seem custom-tailored to Young- 
Lust. . -
The Trial, Waters malefic-*- 
crescendo, is similarly bejeweled 
with guest talent. Tim Curry, 
Please see WALL, page L10Playhouse showcases an animation extravaganza
 Movie Preview 
THE 22nd ANNUAL TOURNEE OF ANIIv/
TION. Brand new compilation of 18 ta
rnations from around the world. Atne 
Pittburgh Playhouse from September i to 
30.
By MICHAEL T. ROSE
Tartan Managing Editor
Next week Pittsburgh is beingnvaded 
1 by small colorful creatures fro/all over 
: the world. Dont say we didnt/a*11 you.
Although the invasion is/uite real, 
| theres no cause for panic.Expanded
Entertainments release a!The 22nd 
Annual Tournee ofAnimatin, a madcap 
compilation of short anim^dfilms from 
all over the world, is malsng its stop in 
town at the Pittsburgh payhouse from 
this Friday through Sun/ay, September 
30.
Past patrons of the journes yearly 
visit will recall the baic format of the
1990 Expanded Entertainment
An Academy Award nominee for Best Animated Short, Balance is a short morality play 
on the nature of greed.
1990 Expanded Entertainment
Two of the stars of Juke-Bar, a wild musical romp as a wacky mass of cockroaches 
infests a classic juke box.
lar with CMU students in recent years 
because of the, inclusion of computeranimated shorts from John Lassiters 
PEKAR. Unfortunately, Lassiter (creator
Bartlett, features the return of one of the 
21st Tournee's, most lovable characters. 
Daydream-prone Arnold, star of 
Bartletts Arnold Goes To Church, is off
piece. All varieties of ajimatedfilm, from of the classic Luxo Jr., Reds Dream, and on another wacky mental tangent; this
traditional cel work tcfcore exotic forms the Academy Award-winning Tin Toy) is 
such as claymation d animation/live unrepresented in this years Tournee. In 
' 11 1 fact, there are no computer-animated
pieces in this years collection  die
hard fans will have to wait.
Despite that lack, this years Tournee 
features a remarkable assortment of 
world animation. Some highlights:
 The Arnold Waltz, directed by Craig
action mixes, are rejresented by shorts 
from all over the weld. This years edi
tion includes two Aademy Award nomi
nees for best animated short; one is from 
West Germany, and the other from the 
U.S.S.R.
The Tournee hasoeen especially popuScience fiction conference 
touches down jn Pittsburgh
time, hes dozing off in music class.
Sharp-eyed animation mavens may 
notice a familial resemblance between 
clay-relief-animated Arnold and fullclaymation television commercial char
acter the Noid. The obsessive, blunder
ing Dominos Pizza villain was co-designed by Bartlett when he was an ani
mation director with. Will Vinton Pro
ductions.
9 The Cow is one of the two Oscar 
nominees featured in the Tournee this 
year. Based on the work of Soviet writer 
Andrei Platonov, The Cow chronicles the 
desperate existence of a linesman living 
on the Russian steppes. This film is the 
first work from the Soviet Union to win 
an Oscar nomination in this category.
The award-winning Juke-Bar, from 
Canadian filmmaker Martin Barry, is a 
wild musical romp infested with a touch 
of unexpected tenderness  most of the 
characters are music-loving cockroaches.
Shadrach, produced by Klasky/Csupo 
with animation direction by Chris 
Casady, is one of the more unusual en
tries in the Tournee and certainly the 
most widely seen  its a rap video. The 
Beastie Boys song and concert footage is 
overlaid with bold strokes of color and 
pattern in this MTV favorite making its 
theatrical debut.
These films, along with 14 other ani
mations ranging from the sublime to the 
bizarre, will charm and delight Playhouse 
patrons all next week. For ticket infor
mation and showtimes, call 621-4445.
By HEATHER BROUD
Tartan Staffwjiter
Nearly two undred people showed up / 
each day for the Third Annual Pitts7' 
burgh Science Fiction Conference la^ 
weekend. Sponsored by the Pittsburg 
Area Realtime Science Fiction Enthu 
asts Club and the Student Science dic
tion and Fantasy Association, the /onom the personality of elves to the porIrayal of evil characters.
Robin Wood, a respected fantasy illus
trator, was among the panelists. Wood is 
known for her book People of Pern and her 
cover art for Dragon Magazine. A slide 
show displayed images of her work in 
progress, as well as the finished product. 
In one, a costumed model jumps off a 
picnic table, and hurls thunderbolts at
ference took place at the Universi/y of imaginary brown bats. 
Pittsburghs William Pitt Student 1 
The guest of honor was JackL. Cl] 
a well-known science fiction 
Chalker has written many ser 
! eluding The Four Lords of the Dp 
and The Changewinds Saga. lis Well 
World series won the Edmond ^amiltonkeigh Brackett Memoria/ Award.
Chalkers next series, the/Quintara 
Marathon, begins with TheDemons at 
Rainbow Bridge.
The panelists and speak/rs included 
twelve authors, five artistsand illustraThe art show featured several tal
ented artists creations in various media 
including paintings, sketches, prints, 
sculpture, and etched glass.
The dealers room contained buttons, 
ceramic dragons, vintage Star Wars ac
tion figures, comic books, Star Trek 
paraphernalia, fanzines, jewelry with 
flashing lights, fantasy prints, minia
tures, and new and used science fiction 
and fantasy books and games.
The movie room, known as the Room of
Doom, featured such classics as Plan 9 
tors, two professors from tie University from Outer Space and Saturday the 14th 
f Pittsburgh, a storytell/r, a technical Strikes Back. The Pittsburgh Area and Warpllrives once a semester. Their 
writer, and CMU robot/cs researcher Realtime Science Fiction Enthusiasts stated purpose is to educate the Pitt 
Kevin Dowling. The aichors included Club, PARSEC, meets at 1 pm every community about science fiction and 
John Barnes, John DeCiancie, and Joe second Saturday of each month in the fantasy, and to provide a social outlet for 
Clifford Faust. The discussions ranged Lecture Hall on the third floor of the science faction and fantasy enthusiasts.7   / j
|.1' /  * 1:1
Billy Bragg plays poli-rock
courtesy Robin Wood
One of Robin Wood's many works.
Allegheny Cijnter Branch of the Carnegie 
Library.
The Student Science Fiction and Fan
tasy Association, S2F2A, meets at 7:30 
pm every Tuesday on the fifth floor of the 
William Piit Student Union. This asso
ciation puljishes a fanzine titled Wizards
By ALLISON DURAZZI
Tartan Staffwriter
The things I must say are empty if you 
dont believe theyre true. Thats what 
Billy Bragg sings in his song The Price 
I Pay from his album, Worker's Playtime. 
He uses these words to mold his career 
into an unusual blend of high musical 
talent and intelligent politics.
Politics are a way of life for Billy Bragg. 
He broke out of the British working class 
after being shown the Ford plant where 
he would work for the rest of his life. 
Since that time, he has used his passion
ate guitar and voice to speak out for the 
unheard across the world. On the back 
cover of his 1988 release, Help Save the 
Youth of America, he delivered a mes
sage to his American audience concern
ing the presidential election of that year:
I have no vote in your Presidential 
election yet its outcome will directly af
fect my future and the future of millions 
of other people around the world, Bragg 
wrote. Forgive me for putting this im
mense responsibility on your shoulders 
but I implore you to take part in the 
democratic process this year however 
imperfect it may be. Eemember, when 
you elect a president, you are electing a 
president for all of us. Please be more
 Concert Preview 
BILLY BRAGG. Performs Tuesday, Sep
tember 18, at Graffiti. Showtime is 7:30 
pm. Tickets will be $16 at the door. . '
careful this time.
Bragg is not always so deliberate wit It" 
his views. Often, they are simple, even! 
proverbial, lines that strike the listene^. 
like in another song from Workers, 
Playtime, Must I Paint You A Picture? ,'; 
when he slips in that a virtue never: 
tested is no virtue at all. These plain'; 
truths are a key to his success.
His recent release, The Internationale-, _ 
is said to be one of Braggs greatest ; 
works. In it, he reworked centuries-old ; 
political anthems with his own zeal to ; 
make them more like their original inn ; 
tentions. \
His passionate themes on politics of ; 
the world and love blend classic truth*;  
and music with unexpectedly moden,l'/ 
lyrics and themes. Sometimes witty, ai 
ways compassionate, Bragg is definitel  
a political spokesman for anyone that ; 
has ever felt the backhand ofunwritten 
rules, but its his plaintive songwritirig ; 
that make him an inspiring artist.

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  17 Septembe 1990
The Wall surpasses the original
WALL, from page L9
best known for his portrayal of 
Dr. Frankenfurter in The Rocky 
Horror Picture Show, is cleverly 
cast as the sinister and epicene 
prosecutor. Synth wizard Thomas 
Dolby is similarly suited for his 
role as the shrieking Schoolmas
ter.
; Not to be aloof from his own 
masterpiece, Waters himself pro
vides a good portion of the vocals 
on especially poignant pieces such 
as Goodbye Cruel World, and 
Vera.
What is most surprising is that 
the production quality of the music 
itself in many instances surpasses 
that of the original album, high
lighting subtle undertones and 
melody lines that were formerly 
almost imperceptible. Its re
freshing to know that Waters ac
tually used the concert as an op
portunity to perfect his work, 
rather than rehash it.
The only thorn in the rosebush 
derives from the fact that the con
cern was a benefit effort, with 
royalties from album sales going
towards the Memorial Fund for 
Disaster Relief. Theres nothing 
wrong with that, of course, but 
Rogers felt obliged to end the con
cert with The Tide is Turning, a 
sappy attempt at vague inspira
tion about the plight of the trodHELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling and 
Student Development 
Center 
268-2922
CONTACT Pittsburgh
782-4023
Drug Connection 
854-0700
Hours: Monday through Friday, 8:30 am - 
5 pm. For after Hours emergencies when 
the office is closed, call the Center.
An answering service operator will reach a 
counselor on call.
24- hour telephone counseling, crisis 
intervention, and supportive listening.
An Alcohol/Drug crisis hotline. 5-9pm.
Counseling and Student Development Center, 
a Division of Student Affairs
HOUSING 
NOTICE:
The Housing Office is interested in updating its waiting list of those students interested in living in University Housing. A few vacancies are currently available for both men and women - and in most cases, interested students will have several places from which to select.
Students interested in living in University Housing are requested to stop up at the Housing Office at their earliest convenience and speak with Susanne Ferrin.
trend? Will we see futi-e hall
marks of history similVly ex
ploited as concert opportunities? 
A Doors reunion commemdating 
the legalization of marijualh? Or 
perhaps Fishbone perfonfing 
Party at Ground Zero com\the 
outbreak of World War III?^he 
possibilities are as endless as tby 
are lucrative.
All jesting aside, Waters cot 
cert at the Berlin Wall represente, 
a memorable occasion in both 
music and politics, and the re
cording The Wall is of such un
usual quality that its a worth
while purchase even without the 
impressive visual aspect of the 
video.
DON'T SIGN UP FOR A STUDENT LOAN UNTIL YOU SIGN UP HERE.
Men who don't register with Selective Service aren't eligible 
for some federal benefits. And that includes federal student aid 
for college. So if you're within a month of turning 18, take 
five minutes and fill out a simple card at the post office. 
Selective Service Registration.It's Quick. It's Easy. And It's The Law. \
courtesy PolyGram Records, Inc. 
den-upon and similar tripe. The 
fact that he substituted such me
diocrity for the albums ending du 
jour, Outside the Wall, is a spit 
in the face of the integrity of the 
production.
Will the concert be the start of a
Needs new staff writers. If 
you are interested in any
thing even remotely enter
taining, stop b> The Tartan 
Office tonight at 8:30.
A VERY PERSOML 
"WELCOME BACr 
FROM DATA GENERAL
Data General is proud to announce a PC Program offering special discounts to the entfe 
Carnegie Mellon community.
For sales and service on the complete line of Data General Personal Computers, offeriri) 
only the most advanced technology.
Compare the features of these systems and decide cn the one that will serve your 
computing needs for the Fall term.. .and beyond.
Sample System Configurerons
DASHER 286-12)
12MHz 80286 Processor. I MB RAM 40MB Hard 
Disk Drive  3.5" 1.44MB Diskette 
5.25" 1.2MB Diskette  VGA Controller 
VGA 14" Color Monitor (.31 MM pitch)
101/102 Key Enhanced AT Compatible Keyboard 
DOS 4.01 or DOS 3.3  GW-BAS1C  UM 4.0 Driver 
$1,600.60
DASHER 386SX-16
16MH2.80386 Processer  2MB RAM 
40MB Harddisk  3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive 
VGA Controller  VGA 14" Color 
Monitor (.31 MM pitch)
101/102 Key Enhanced AT Compatible Keyboard 
DOS 4.01 vr DOS 3.3  QEMM-386
52,424.00
DASHER 386-25MHz
25MHz 80386 Processor  4MB RAM  100MB Harddisk 
3.5" 1.44MB Diskette Drive  VGA Controller 
VGA 14" Color Monitor (.31 MM pitch)  Microsoft Moi\; 
101/102 Key Enhanced AT Compatible Keyboard 
DOS 4.01 or DOS 3.3  QEMM-386
$3,459.00
For more information on our complete PC lineor to order NOVplease call 
Rich Bingham at 921-5401 for your FREE Data General PC Pockt Guide.
iw Data General

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  17 September 1990Lll
Joe Bob defends natural B.O. and toasty sex
j Do you realize that some chem
ists in Philadelphia figured out 
the formula for B.O.?
4  huge team of scientists suc
cessfully isolated 3-methyl-2- 
ihexenoic acid by sticking giant 
Sponges under the armpits of con
struction workers that never take 
showers. Then they took the pads 
off, stuck em under a microscope, 
arid searched for the B.O. com
pound. Now they can bottle the 
stuff if they want to.
\ Does the CIA know about this? 
' Sas anyone alerted Colin Powell? 
jfe^cause Im thinking if we 
launched a few cannisters into 
Bowntown Baghdad, then... naw, 
thats redundant, isnt it?
I Now that weve figured this out, 
'though, I want all the wives, girl
friends, and assorted females 
reading this to listen up: 
i Its normal. Its natural. Its a 
goldum chemical ingredient that 
Koines out of our body ever day 
iilce God intended. Were supposed 
to 6mell like that. So lighten up on 
it, all right?
 I called up Wanda Bodine as 
soon as I saw this in the paper, 
and I said, Remember last week 
when you told me I was disgust
ing because my armpits smelled 
like a dead three-ton alligator 
gar?
; No, what I said was that your 
whole body smelled like a dead 
-alligator that had been carved 
into hundreds of pieces and left in 
the sun for twelve days.
| iWell, whatever. My point is 
tht you werent smelling me. Y ou 
were smelling a chemical that was 
pme. You were smelling a little 
3-methyl-2-hexenoic acid.
JOE BOB GOES TO THE 
DRIVE IN
by Joe Bob Briggs
Well, whatever I was smell
ing, she said, "it was Super 
Unleaded.
You see, Wanda, you try to 
make body odor into a personal 
thing. It would be one thing if you 
were just saying, Hey, Bozo, you 
get a little methyl on your skin. 
That would be the same thing as 
saying, You got some parmesan 
cheese in your beard. Its some
thing you say to a friend. Its 
helpful. But when you talk about 
it, its like saying, Youve got 
something wrong with your 
character. A little B.O. and you 
think a person is a degenerate. 
Joe Bob, she said, it would be 
different if we were talking about 
a little methyl-hexadragon on your 
skin.
Three-methyl-2-hexenoic
acid.
But were talking about 9,000 
pounds of caked armpit concen
trate. They could use you for a 
human chemical weapon.
But its natural, I told her. I 
thought you liked natural things. 
I thought you were steamed be
cause women are forced to shave 
their legs all the time.
If I didnt shave my legs, she
said, youd have some smartaleck remark to make. Thats why 
I shave my legs.
I wouldnt have any smartaleck remark to make. Id probly 
say something like Hey, Bride of 
Kong! Nice calves! But thats what 
Im telling you  its the same
It is not the same thing. Im 
forced to shave my legs because of 
the expectations of other people. 
And Im forced to spray stuff in 
my armpits  endangering the 
environment every time I do it  
because of the expectations' of 
you.
B.O., she said, is something 
that infringes on the rights of 
others.
No, thats what Im telling you, 
Wanda. B.O. is natural. Its all the 
other smells that infringe on the 
rights of others, because theyre 
not natural.
Are you saying that everyone 
should smell like a Shetland 
pony?
No, Im sayingthat some people 
should smell like rhinoceros 
vomit. It depends on the culture 
you come from.
Well, Ill tell you one thing 
thatll make you take care of your 
B.O.
I hate it when she gets like this. 
What?
If you dont take care of it, Im 
not shaving my legs, Im not 
wearing makeup, and (here she 
paused for dramatic effect) I am 
not shaving my armpits. 
Wanda?
Yes.
Ill have to call you back. Ive 
got to go take a shower.
There are some things too dis
gusting to imagine, even if they 
are natural.
Speaking of stinky body organs, 
Space Avenger is the latest aliensin-the-shape-of-humans flick 
(there have been about 20 of these 
since They Live), and this time its 
Bonnie and Clyde Meet The Ter
minator as four slimey spinalcord creatures land their space
ship in a field during the Depres
sion and wait for four stupid 
tourists to come by so they can 
change their heads and take over 
their bodies. But after they steal 
some rifles and waste a few World 
War I veterans, they get scared 
and climb back into the space
ship.
They sleep fifty years before a 
construction crew unearths the 
spaceship again, but they use up 
all their bullets blowing away the 
construction crew. Then they go 
to Greenwich Village to be incon
spicuous and get discovered by a 
Space Avenger comic book artist 
whos in trouble with his girlfriend 
because he likes comic books more 
than he likes sex ... and, well, as 
you can see, theres way too much 
plot getting in the way of the 
story, but basically what weve 
got here is one of those movies 
with two or three great gross out 
scenes, like when the aliens get 
their arms blown off and they 
have to grow new ones, or when 
the bimbo alien hangs out in 
Times Square, posing as a hooker 
because shes so oversexed. Shes 
got to have it now  and her first 
clientis... Jamie Gillis! The porno 
star! Unfortunately for Jamie, 
when an alien has sex with a
This scene from Space Avenger shows what happens when you dont 
get those cavities taken care of.
human, the human burns up at 
the moment of... well, you know. 
Very toasty.
But most of the rest of the movie 
is one of those deals where every
body gets shot with one bullet, 
clutches his chest, and dies, thirdgrade style.
Four breasts. Sixty dead bod
ies. Exploding aliens. Steamy 
Jamie Gillis. Post-Toastie alien. 
Spittoon-in-the-face. One fist 
fight. Head rolls. Arm rolls. Gra
tuitous disco. Drive-In Academy 
Award nominations for Robert 
Prichard, as the head alien, for
blowing away a nuke-plant secu
rity guard and saying, I hate red 
tape; Charity Staley, as Alien 
Karen, for saying Is that sup
posed to be an interstellar pro
pulsion device?; and Marty Rob
erts, as the Space Avenger comic 
book editor, for saying High 
concept! Thats what we need! A 
Communist Monster!
Two stars. Joe Bob says check it 
out.
Joe Bob Briggs is the one and 
only Drive-In movie critic of 
Grapevine, Texas.
The Symbol Says It All.
Youve seen this symbol aroundat 
health agencies, day care facilities, neigh
borhood centers and, of course, on all 
United Way posters and publications.
But did you know the symbols very 
simple, yet universal, message?
At the bottom is a helping hand. The 
hand symbolizes the services and pro
grams supported by the United Way that 
in turn support the people in our com
munity.
The image in the center, based on the 
universal symbol of mankind, is cradled 
by the helping hand. It shows that all peo
ple are supported and uplifted by United 
Way efforts.
And a rainbow springs from the helping 
hand, representing the hope of a better 
life possible through the United Way.
In these simple figures is the sum total 
of the United Way philosophyto pro
mote voluntarism and to support volun
tary organizations in their efforts to pro
vide a better life for us all.
Walk - in Tutoring
Sunday through Thursday 
Starting September 23
8-11 pm
CalculusWeH5403
PhysicsWeH5427
ChemistryWeH5205
Academic WritingWeH5205
Intro to ComputingWeH5415
The Right Place To Turn
i:

---------------------------------------------------

L12The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  17 September 1990
74.97
Our Everyday Low Price. Casio 7000G 
graphic scientific calculator with 193 
functions, 422 program steps, graphic 
functions and 16-character, 8-line display.10.97 16.97
Our Everyday Low Price. 8-digit scien
tific calculator features constant memo
ry, automatic shutoff, convenient user 
memory and fractional capability.FX250
Our Everyday Low Price. Casio scientific 
solar-powered calculator features 125 
functions, 10-digit display, one indepen
dent memory/6 constant memories.
THE QUALITY YOU NEED, THE PRICE YOU WANT.
Japan kicks butt in the video game world
Lets talk Japan. It seems like a 
real nice place. Lots of people, 
strange language, and the prob
ably the best damn video games 
. on the planet.
Not only do they have better 
, games than we do, but their games 
come out months and sometimes 
years before ours. Take for ex
ample Dragon Warrior for the 
 Nintendo Entertaiment System 
(one of the best-selling games in 
history over there). In Japan 
theyre up to Dragon Warrior IV, 
while were just getting number 
U here. At the current rate (one 
Dragon Warrior every year-anda-half) well be lucky to see num
ber IV over here sometime in the 
year 1993.
Or how about Final Fantasy for 
the Game Boy System? Ive been
PRESS START
by Stephen Glicker
dying to play a role-playing game 
on Game Boy. Final Fantasy has 
been been available for over a 
year in Japan, while it should be 
hitting our shelves just in time for 
Christmas.
I could go on and tell you about 
Batman, Phantasy Star III, or 
Thunder Force III for the Genesis 
Entertainment System, but I 
wont. Instead, Ill get into the
area that really pisses me off: the 
prices in Japan.
How much is Genesis in 
America? Around $200 with taxes, 
right? In Japan, Genesis (called 
the Mega Drive over there, but 
its the exact same system) sells 
for around 11,500-12,000 yen, 
which is around $80 to you and 
me.
Thats right, $80.
But wait! It gets better....
Guess how much Ghostbusters 
for the Genesis system costs in 
Japan? 3900 yen, which is $26.1 
paid $49.99 for my copy from Toys 
RUs.
Or how about Super Monaco GP 
for Genesis.... In Japan, 4200 yen, 
which is $28. In America, it cost 
$50 at Toys R Us. Is it me or I 
missing something here?
courtesy Capcom 
Probably the crme de le crme 
is Phantasy Star III, which isnt 
even out over here yet. Judging 
how much number II cost, num
ber III should be somewhere in 
the neighborhood of $80 or so (the
same price for a Mega Drive). In 
Japan Phantasy Star III costs, 
hold onto your seats, only 1980 
yen, $13.29\
I dont know about you, but Im 
seriously considering learning 
Japanese and moving over there.
On to a more cheerful subject: 
tins weeks game. If you remem
ber from last week, I just barely 
managed to escape from 
Babbages with my wallet, let 
alone my life. However, as I 
staggered out of there, licking mywounds, I found a very small game 
clinging onto my leg. It turned out 
to be Gargoyles Quest for the 
Game Boy System.
I pried it free, fed it some money, 
and popped it into my Game Boy 
to see just'what I had gotten my
self into. I turned out to be pleasThe scientific way 
to go back to school
antly surprised.
Even after reading the instruc. 
tions and playing the game, Im 
still not exactly sure what the 
main storyline is. Its probably 
along the lines of save someone 
and restore peace to the kingdom. 
All I know for certain is that if you 
get to the end of the game, y0l] 
win.
In this game you dont play an 
Italian plumber, or a super fight, 
ing and killing machine, but 
rather, a tiny but strong gargoyle 
(hence the name of the game). 
True, you might not win any 
beauty contests, but you do have 
fiery breath at your disposal and 
razor-sharp claws, which always 
come in handy when you wish to 
climb up a wall.
The game alternates between 
two vantage points. The first one 
is a birds-eye view of you and your 
surroundings. This view is used 
when your character needs to ' 
discover important information, 
talk to people, use magic, and buy 
items. There is no combat in this 
mode.
The second vantage point is a 
close-up side view of your char-: 
acter. All combat occurs in this 
view, and most of the game is 
played from this view as well. The 
action continuously switches be
tween the side view and the birdseye view throughout the game.
When youre in the birds-eye 
view mode, gameplay isnt really 
all that impressive. The graphics 
are okay, nothing to write home 
about, and there isnt any real 
music to speak of. This view really 
serves as a break between 
gameplaya chance to buy items 
that improve your character, use 
magic items, talk to other crea
tures, and receive a password so 
that you can continue the game 
from the last birds-eye you en
countered. There are also several 
hidden combat zones found 
throughout these vantage points, 
but they play a minor role. The 
real strength of the game come: 
during the close-up side view ar
eas.
During this stage, gameplay 
consists mostly of fighting evil 
creatures, avoiding jumping poi
sonous fish, and maneuvering 
around razor-sharp spikes. The 
graphics are quite detailed, con
sidering the Game Boys small 
screen. Fires burn in the back
ground, water pours out of sewers 
 its really nice. And with the 
multiple shading effects, it almost 
looks three dimensional. Almost
The actual play can be summed 
up in one word  hard. You have 
only two lives when you start oui 
and you can be injured only twice 
before you lose each life. Comers 
are tight and you need pin-point 
accuracy to maneuver around 
safely. Monsters can be found 
around every corner. You really 
need to master the controls if you 
expect to get anywhere in this 
game.
The music is pretty good, even 
though it repeats itself over and 
over again. The programmers 
made good use of the stereo c 
pabilities.
For the final evaluation, on a 
scale of one to ten, I give the 
graphics an eight, the sound a six, 
and the playability a seven. Over
all I give Gargoyles Quest a 
seven.
Tune in next week when I com
plain about some other countrys 
video games.
Tartan Diversions Editor 
Stephen Glicker is sending gobof moolah over to his friend in 
Japan to purchase the latest video 
games, as opposed to waiting uj1' 
til the year 1993.
DONTMISS 
CATALYST: OCT 5-7
Univ. of Illinois at Urbana-Champ^S11 
National Student Environmental 
Conference
 Benefit Conceit with Billy Bragg
 Ralph Nader, Robert Redford,
Helen Caldicott, Cesar Chavez
 3,000 students march for envir. rights
Contact SEAC, 305 W. Elm. #2 
Urbana, Illinois 61801 217-333-2440

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon  17 September 1990L13
Thursday, September 20
Cinema Paradiso
In one small Sicilian town everyone goes to the 
Cinema Paradiso. Every week the entire town lines 
up to see the latest film offering, even though it has 
been edited by the towns priest.
For young Toto, the Cinema Paradiso holds much 
more than a few hours of entertainment; he has 
found true love in the movies on the screen. His 
passion to get involved in the world of film eventually 
wears the aging projectionist, Alfredo, down. Alfredo 
teaches young Toto to use his magical device, and 
Toto becomes proficient enough to take over the job.
Perhaps the most poignant story in Cinema 
Paradiso is the growth of every citizens best friend, 
the theater. The audience watches as the movie 
house goes from a young business that shows only the 
cleanest of films, to a more liberal establishment that 
will occasionally allow a kiss to get onto the screen. 
Rare is the film that has so much life; even the 
buildings have personality. DH 2210 may not exactly 
be a Cinema Paradiso, but you can visit the real 
thing this Thursday night.
At 6, 8:30,11
Friday, September 21
The Hunger
Vampires dont live in cobwebbed castles anymore; 
they live in fashionable Manhattan townhouses and 
look as if they just stepped out of Vogue or GQ. They 
draw the blood of pop punks they pick up at discos. 
Obviously vampires have adapted to our kinder and 
gentler nation.
Miriam and John are a fast-pacedNew York couple 
with the acquired taste for blood. They feast on the 
blood of the local Manhattan social set to prevent 
themselves from aging (and for nutritional purposes, 
of course).
John seems to be aging, though. Miriam seeks out 
Dr. Sarah Roberts to help him. While Sarah performs 
scientific experiments on John, Miriam attempts to 
seduce her, perhaps thinking a doctors circulatory 
system would supply a better meal. Sink your teeth 
into this bizarre film.
At 6, 8,10,12
Saturday, September 22
E.T.
Do you want to see Drew Barrymore before her 
drug rehabilitation? Or perhaps remind yourself of 
the promise Henry Thomas showed before he disap
peared from the silver screen? Maybe you just like 
aliens with warm hearts. If you are in the above 
categories, you will certainly enjoy Steven Spielbergs 
blockbuster about that cute as a bug extraterres
trial.
Unable to hitch a ride home after his spaceship 
flies off without him, E.T. decides to mingle with 
strange earth creatures. He befriends the ten-yearold boy Elliot and moves in with him. He experiences 
much of human culture: being dressed up like a girl 
by a nursery school student, cycling, and getting 
drunk. In his spare time, E.T. devises a piece of 
machinery that enables him to phone home. Can he 
fly back to his planet before the federal agents find 
him?
At 6, 8,10,12
Sunday, September 23
Close Encounters of the 
Third Kind
Unidentified flying objects or unbelievably far
fetched observations? Steven Spielberg presents us 
with this basic question in his first film about aliens 
and their relationships with humans.
Richard Dreyfuss portrays an electrical lineman 
whose stable emotional state is altered after sighting 
a UFO. His wife (Teri Garr) and his children abandon 
him, but he finds solace with a frantic mother (Melinda 
Dillon) whose son (Cary Guffey) has been snatched 
by extraterrestrials. Francois Truffaut plays Claude 
Lacombe, a somewhat strange Frenchman who con
tinually searches for messages from out there. He 
travels from Mexico to India and finally winds up in 
Wyoming, where the little green men have decided to 
land. UFO followers, put out your dollar.
At 7, 9:30,12
T hursd ayr,S
Pittsburgh hosts the best of Broadway
BROADWAY, from page L9
where they will meet
Flaemmchen, a young worn an who 
holds the innocent dream of be
coming a star in Hollywood; 
Grushinskaya, an aging ballerina 
who can barely work up enough 
courage to take the stage; a young 
bellman awaitiilg news of his first 
bom child, and Otto Kringelein, a 
dying bookkeeper who has come 
to Grand Hotel to find life. These 
characters and many others mix 
at the Grand Hotel, and all the 
while the doctor watches, occa
sionally commenting as he finds 
some amusement in their fail
ures and much disgust in their
slavery to money. Catch this one 
January 29 to February 3.
Jerome Robbins3 Broadway 
arrives in Pittsburgh on July 2. 
This compilation of scenes from 
many of Robbins past produc
tions includes a cast of over sixty 
dancers. Some of the classics you 
probably already know by heart, 
like the gym scene in West Side 
Story where Tony and Maria each 
take that fateful glance across 
the room. Others, like the scenes 
from High Button Shoes are less 
well-known. Still, with a list of 
shows that includes these two, 
plus musicals like Peter Pan, A 
Funny Thing Happened on the
Way to the Forum, Gypsy, and 
Fiddler on the Roof, theres sure 
to be something for everyone to 
enjoy.
Meet Me in St. Louis arrives 
at Heinz in August of next year. 
Once a popular MGM movie star
ring Judy Garland, this stage 
adaptation includes those wellknown hits like The Trolley 
Song, Have Yourself A Merry 
Little Christmas, and of course, 
the title song. The show tells the 
story of two young sisters who are 
told by their parents that they are 
leaving their hometown for St. 
Louis. The two dont want to leave 
the security of their close friends
and the older girl has the more 
difficult task of saying good-bye 
to a new love. This musical man
ages to capture the spirit of ado
lescence and the early part of'this 
century.
If any of these shows catch your 
eye, you can get ticket informa
tion by calling or visiting the 
Benedum and Heinz box offices. 
You can reach the Benedum box 
office at 456-6660 and the Heinz 
Hall box office at 281-5000.'Tick
ets for any specific show go on 
sale about a month before., the 
shows scheduled opening. Soplan 
ahead to get the best seats for the 
show of your choice.
TV BREAK
A summary of upcoming episodes 
of Carnegie Mellons favorite TV 
shows.
Regular Network Programs
CHEERS. Thursday at 9 pm, 
channel 11 (NBC). The start of the ninth season finds Sam owning the 
bar once again, except this time, 
Rebecca is working for him.
DOOGIE HOWSER, M.D. 
Wednesday at 9 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). The new season brings the 
return of gang member Raymond 
Alexander, who has moved up from 
stealing to working in the hospital. 
But Doogie cant help being suspi
cious when a patients watch dis
appears.
LA. LAW. Not being shown due 
to the debut of Law and Order.
QUANTUM LEAP. Now Fri
days at 8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). 
Not being shown due to the special 
Super Bloopers and Practical Jokes. 
But attention, Scott Bakula fans: 
he is the victim of a practical joke 
by co-star Dean Stockwell in the 
special, which is being shown Fri
day at 8 pm, on channel 11.
THE SIMPSONS. Thursday at 
8 pm, channel 53 (WPGH). Homer 
gives Marge a bowling ball for her 
birthday with the intentions of us
ing it himself, but Marge shows 
him by learning how to bowl from a 
very sleazy, syrupy French in
structor.
THIRTYSOMETHING. Not 
being shown due to the All-Star 
Tribute to Oprah Winfrey.
TWIN PEAKS. Saturday at 10 
pm, channel 4 (ABC). Not being 
shown due to Beverly Hills Cop.
THE WONDER YEARS. 
Wednesday at 8 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). In the opener of the fourth 
season, Karen is on her way to 
college and Wayne has a new girl
friend. But things arent so good for 
Kevin, who is faced with a tough 
realization at his fathers company 
picnic.
New Shows
EVENING SHADE. Friday at 8 
pm, channel 2 (CBS). Anew comedy 
starring Burt Reynolds and Marilu 
Henner. In the opener, Wood New
ton (Reynolds), a losing high-school 
football coach, husband to Ava 
(Henner) and father of three, has a 
disastrous anniversary/birthday 
celebration.
FERRIS BUELLER. Monday at 
8:30 pm, channel 11 (NBC). Ferris 
is disqualified from running for 
student-body president, but he 
makes up for it by taking a candi
date with an image problem under 
his wing.
THE FLASH. Thursday at 8 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). This 2-hour debut 
stars John Wesley Shipp as Barry 
Allen, apolice scientist who is struck 
by lightning and suddenly finds 
himself gifted with incredible speed. 
Also stars Amanda Pays.
FRESH PRINCE OF BEL AIR. 
Monday at 8 pm, channel 11 (NBC). 
Wils friend Ice Tray comes to visit 
and is welcomed with open arms, 
until Tray and Hilary get a bit too 
close.
GABRIELS FIRE. Now
Thursday at 9 pm, channel 4 (ABC). 
A new series starring James Earl 
Jones as Gabriel Bird, a man in his 
20th year of a life sentence for kill
ing his partner on the force. ONeil 
manages to have a prostitute con
vince Bird that shes his daughter, 
and that her daughter was kid
napped by her husband. (Part 1 of 
2)
LAW AND ORDER. Thursday at 
10 pm, channel 11 (NBC). A new 
drama about crime and cops. 
Greevey and Logan (George 
Dzundza, Chris Noth) must inves
tigate a subway shooting, but the 
prosecutors have reservations 
about the criminals motives.
LENNY. Wednesday at 8 pm, 
channel 2 (CBS). When Shelly and 
Mary suffer a minor car accident, 
the guys go overboard at home car
ing for Tracy and Kelly.
THE TRIALS OF ROSIE 
ONEILL. Monday at 10 pm, chan
nel 2 (CBS). Sharon Gless of Cagney
RESEARCH PAPERS18,500 to choose from - all subjects 
Order Caialog Today with Visa/MC or COD
iiWHiflaniiimia 800-351-0222In Calif. (213) 477-8226 Or, rush $2.00 to: Research Assistance 11322 Idaho Ave. 206-SN Los Angeles. CA 90025- Custon research availableall levels
Design 
Your 
Career With 
Intergraph.
INTERGRAPH CORPORATION is a leading developer and supplier of RISC-based work
stations, CAD/CAM/CAE systems and GIS/Mapping systems to a variety of industrial and 
governmental users.
We need individuals with new ideas who share our dedication to innovative thinking 
and motivated action for the following positions. Candidates should be pursuing degrees 
in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, Electrical Engineering or related fields, 
and should possess a strong software background.
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT
Computer graphics applications in C/UNIX
SYSTEMS ENGINEERING
Workstation development, databases, microcode, networks
APPLICATIONS ENGINEERING
Software support, training and benchmarks
TECHNICAL WRITING
Software/hardware documentation and user manuals
ON CAMPUS INTERVIEWS
Tuesday, October 16 
Career Planning and Placement Center 
An Equal Opportunity Employer, M/E/H/V
INTERGRAPH
and Lacey fame stars as Rosie, who 
makes a comeback after a difficult 
divorce by becoming a Los Angeles 
County public defender. In the 
opener, her client is charged with 
lolling her newborn child.
Special Programs
AMERICAS ALL-STAR 
TRIBUTE TO OPRAH WIN
FREY. Tuesday at 10 pm, channel 
4 (ABC). Oprah Winfrey is the re
cipient of the Americas Hope 
Award, and she is honored with 
musical and comedy, tributes by 
many celebrities, includingBarbara 
Bush, Whoopi Goldberg, Lily 
Tomlin, and Bob Hope, the awards 
first recipient and namesake.
AN EVENING WITH... 
Wednesday at 10 pm, channel 4 
(ABC). Bette Midler, Cher, Goldie 
Hawn, Meryl Streep, Olivia Newton-John, and Robin Williams 
headline a benefit for Mothers and 
Others for a Livable Planet, taped 
September 13 at the Greek Theatre 
in Los Angeles.
SUPER BLOOPERS AND 
PRACTICAL JOKES. Friday at 8 
pm, channel 11 (NBC). Dick Clark 
and Ed McMahon present all-new 
bloopers and practical jokes, in
cluding bloopers by Lucille Ball, a
practical joke on Jere Bums from 
Dear John, and a joke on Quantum 
Leap star Scott Bakula.
Cable Programs
BATMAN. Sunday at 8 pm, HBO, 
drama. Starring Michael Keaton, 
Jack Nicholson, and Kim Basinger. 
You know the story. The calped 
crusader shows off his bat-talents 
amidst the gloomy streets of 
Gotham, hoping to wipe that siiiile 
off the Jokers face and put on$ on 
Vicki Vales.
CRIMINAL JUSTICE. Monday 
at 10:30 pm, HBO, drama. Starring 
Jennifer Grey {Dirty Dancing) and 
Forest Whitaker (Good Morning, 
Vietnam). An ex-con without an 
alibi finds himself fighting forhis 
life after a drug-addicted prosti
tute accuses him of assault and 
robbery. Written and directed! by 
CMU alum Andy Wolk.
SAY ANYTHING. Saturday at 
12:30 pm, Cinemax, comedy. Star
ring John Cusack (The Sure Thing) 
and lone Skye. The story of a highschool graduate who wont stop until 
he makes the class valedictorian 
fall in love with him.
Compiled by DAWN 
BROSONSKI
th Annual Carnegie Mellon 
Graduate School Conference
Thursday, September 20, 1990 
Skibo Ballroom 10:00 AM to 3:00 PM
The Graduate School Conference provides students with 
Ih opportunity to meet with representatives of graduate 
schools and discuss academic programs and scholarship/ 
fellowship information. Catalogs and graduate information 
will be available from a number of schools nationwide.
American Graduate School of International Management Carnegie Mellon University
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
School of Urban and Public Affairs Case Western Reserve University
Department of Theatre Arts 
Weatherhead School of Management Dartmouth College
Thayer School of Engineering 
Drexel University Duke University
School of Engineering & Materials Science George Washington University 
School of Engineering Kent State University
Graduate School of Management 
Medical College of Pennsylvania 
New York University
Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Northeastern UniversityGraduate School of Business Administration 
Ohio UniversityCollege of Engineering & Technology Pennsylvania College of Straight Chiropractic 
Pennsylvania State University
College of Business Administration 
Pittsburgh Theological Seminary 
Point Park College 
Princeton University 
Southern Methodist UniversityCox School of Business 
University of BuffaloSchool of Management 
The University of ChicagoGraduate School of Business 
University of Notre Dame 
University of PittsburghKatz Graduate School of Business 
School of Dental Medicine 
University of Texas, AustinGraduate School of Business
Sponsors: Tau Beta Pi & Carnegie Mellon Career Center
CarnegieMellon

---------------------------------------------------

Culture
Dinosaurs Alive! An exhibit of ani
mated dinosaurs returns to the Carnegie 
Museum of Natural History from now 
until October 28. Tickets: $6 for adults, 
$3 for students with IDs. Museum hours: 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and 
Saturday 10 am to 5 pm; Friday 10 am to 
9, pm; Sunday 1 to 5 pm. For ticket 
information, call 622-6500.
Hetzel to Parcell: Eighty Years of 
Pittsburgh Painters will be on display 
at the Carson Street Gallery in Southside 
now through September 29. Gallery 
hours: Monday to Saturday 10 am to 6 
pm, Friday 10 am to 10 pm. Call 481- 
8880 for more information.
Thomas Reilands The Gift of 
Night, an exhibit of astrophotography, 
will be on display at Blatant Image Gal
lery on East Carson Street in Southside 
until Saturday. Call 431-1810 for more 
information.
The University of Pittsburgh Fic
tion and Poetry Workshop meets ev
ery Wednesday at 8 pm for readings at 
the Cathedral of Learning. Call 687- 
0379 for more information.
Architectural Brochures: History, 
Hype, and Graphic Design, an exhibit 
of architectural promotional materials 
from the Pittsburgh region, will be dis
played from tomorrow until November. 
This display, dating from the 1890s to 
the present, will be on the 4th floor of the 
Hunt Library.
Shared Histories/Common Ground,
a collection of contemporary petroglyphs 
from the Canal National Heritage Corri
dor, will be on display this week at the 
Pittsburgh Filmmakers Gallery in Oak
land. Call 681-5449 for information.
Films
Beginning today, the Pittsburgh Play
house has a new Filmline number for 
information about upcoming films and 
otheri presentations. The new number is 
621-6601.
Without You Im Nothing will play at 
the Pittsburgh Playhouse through 
Thursday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Admission 
is $4.
Cinema Paradiso will play at the 
Pittsburgh Playhouse through Thursday 
at 7 and 9:15 pm, and also in DH 2210 on 
Thursday at 6, 8:30, and 11 pm. Admis
sion is $3 for the Playhouse and $1 for 
DH 2210. The DH 2210 showing is 
sponsored by AB.
Camille Claudel will play at the Pitts
burgh Playhouse this Friday at 7:30 pm. 
Admission is $3.
Monty Python and the Holy Grail
will play at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
tins Saturday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Ad
mission is $3.
The 22nd International Tournee of 
Animation will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7, 9:15, and 11:30 pm 
starting Saturday and lasting through 
the end of this month. Admission is $4.
Kiss Me Kate will play at the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Sunday at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. 
Admission is $3.
Attack of the Killer Tomatoes will play 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse next Mon
day at 7:30 and 9:30 pm. Admission is $3.
The Hunger will play Friday at 6,8,10, 
and 12 pm in DH 2210. Admission is $1. 
Sponsored by AB.
E.T.: The Extra-Terrestrial will play 
Saturday at 6, 8, 10, and 12 pm in DH 
2210. Admission is $1. Sponsored by 
SDC.
Close Encounters of the Third Kind
will play Sunday at 7,9:30, and 12 pm in 
DH 2210. Admission is $1. Sponsored by 
AB.
Sports
Womens Tennis will play Chatham 
College tonight at 5 pm and Grove City 
College Saturday at 1:30 pm. On the 
tennis courts.
Womens Volleyball will play Carlow 
College with Washington & Jefferson 
College tomorrow at 6 pm. At the Skibo 
Gym.
Pittsburgh Penguins vs. Detroit Red 
Wings. Pre-season hockey Thursday at 
7:30 pm. Tickets range from $16 to $26. 
At the Civic Arena.
Womens Field Hockey will play 
Juniata College at 6 pm on Friday at 
Gesling Field.
The Tartan Football Team vs. 
Duquesne. The second home game of 
the season pits the Tartans against city 
rival Duquesne Dukes Saturday at 1:30 
pm on Gesling Field.
Miller High Life Championship Ro
deo. Saturday at 2 and 8 pm, and Sun
day at 2 pm. Tickets range from $8.50 to 
$12.50. At the Civic Arena.
The Tartan Soccer Team will compete 
Sunday at 1 pm against Emory Univer
sity. On Gesling Field.
Pittsburgh Steelers vs. LA. Raiders.
Sunday at 4 pm in Los Angeles.
Notices
SDCs Food Committee Meeting will 
be heldThursday at 3:30 pm in Skibo 105 
and 106. This will be the committees 
first meeting and will focus on the new 
Highlander Caf in addition to other 
dining service issues. The Director of 
Dining Service and the managers of each 
Dining Hall will attend. SDC encour
ages students to participate.
Walk-in tutoring will be available for 
students needing help in physics, calcu
lus, chemistry, academic writing, or in
troductory computing. Tutoring will be
gin approximately one month after the 
start of the semester until the beginning 
of finals. Call the Counseling and Stu
dent Development Center at x2922 for 
more information.
The University Libraries have es
tablished their schedule of hours for this 
semester: both Hunt Library and In
structional Technology will be open 
Monday through Thursday from 8 am to 
3 am, Fridays from 8 am to midnight, 
Saturday from 9 am to midnight, and 
Sunday from 10 am to 3 am. The E&S 
Library will be open Monday through 
Thursday from 8 am to midnight, Fridays 
from 8 am to 9 pm, Saturday from 9 am 
to 9 pm, and Sunday from 10 am to 
midnight. Mellon Institute will be open 
Monday through Thursday from 8:30 am 
to 5 pm and Fridays from 8 am to 5 pm; 
closed weekends.
The Celebration for Racial Equality 
and Human Rights will be held Satur
day at Point State Park from noon to 
dusk. Speakers from Israel, South Af
rica, El Salvador, and the Native Ameri
can community will join local activists to 
address issues of human equality and 
diversity in Pittsburgh and beyond. 
Music, dance, theatre, poetry, arts and 
crafts, and food will be included among 
the festivities. For more information, 
call 322-5142.
The Blue Ridge Mountain Sports Car 
Club is holding its monthly Road Rally 
this Sunday. Registration is $5 per car. 
Beginners are welcome. Contact Doug 
Reece for more information at x7698 or 
371-6959 (evenings).
W.W.F. Championship Wrestling.
Next Friday at 8 pm in the Civic Arena. 
Highlights include Big Boss Man vs. 
Earthquake, Jake the Snake Roberts vs. 
Bad News Brown, Dusty Rhodes vs. 
Million Dollar Man, and the Bush
whackers vs. the Orient Express. Tick
ets are $9, $10, or $13.
Music
The Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble
will begin its season with Stravinskys 
Histoire du Soldat and works by John 
Harbison and Tina Davidson tonight in 
Levy Hall, Rodef Shalom Temple, Oak
land. Call 261-0554for more information.
Billy Bragg with special guest O-Positive will perform at Graffiti tomorrow at 
7:30 pm. Call 363-0500 or 682-4210 for 
ticket information.
Alabama with special guest Clint Black 
will perform at the Star Lake 
Amphitheatre this Friday at 7:30 pm. 
For ticket information, call 333-SEAT.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orches
tra. Lorin Maazel, conductor. The or
chestra will perform works by Wagner in 
Heinz Hall this weekend: Friday at 8:30 
pm, Saturday at 8 pm, and Sunday at 
2:30 pm. Tickets will range from $15.95 
to $34.10. Call 392-4900 for ticket in
formation.
The 1st Annual Pittsburgh Blues 
Festival will take place this weekend at 
Graffiti. The Kinsey Report with Big 
Daddy Kinsey will perform Friday at 9 
pm; admissionis $13. James Cotton with 
special guest The Pep Boys will perform 
Saturday at 9 pm; admission is $15. Call 
363-0500 or 682-4210 for ticket informa
tion.
The Carnegie Brass Quintet will 
perform at the Mellon Institute Audito
rium Sunday at 8 pm as part of the 
Department of Musics Fall 1990 Dis
tinguished Alumni Series. Admission is 
$10, with a 50% discount for CMU stu
dents, senior citizens, faculty, and staff. 
Call x2383 for more information.
Organist John W. Becker will per
form selections of Marcel Dupre in Heinz 
Chapel this Sunday at 9:30 pm as part of 
the Compline Choir Series. Sponsored 
by the Lutheran University Center. Call 
682-6886 for more information.
2 Live Crew is coming to Pittsburgh 
next Thursday for two shows at 7:30 and 
10 pm. At Illusions, the Fulton Building, 
Downtown. Call 338-0100 for ticket in
formation.
Religion
Eucharist, at 11:15 am Sunday in the 
Lutheran University Center. Contact 
Ruth Degenkolb at 682-6886 for more 
information.
The Roman Catholic Oratory cel
ebrates Mass on campus every weekend, 
7 pm Saturday and 10:30 am Sunday in 
the Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration Auditorium. A solemn 
Sunday Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm 
in Carnegie Mellons chapel (Skibo 39). 
For more information, call The Oratory 
at 681-3181.
Theatre
A Chorus Line, performed by Carnegie 
Mellon Drama, will start this Thursday 
and continue until October 6. Guest di
rector John DeLuca will stage this recordbreaking Broadway musical in the Kresge 
Theatre at 8 pm from Tuesdays to Sat
urdays, and the Saturday matinees will 
be shown at 2 pm. Call x2407 for ticket 
information.
Lanford Wilsons Rimers of 
Eldritch will be performed by the Act
ing Company of LHRT everyday this 
week at 8 pm, Sundays at 4 pm. Tickets 
are $7, or $5 for students and senior 
citizens. In Lawrenceville at 91 
McCandless Avenue. Call 781-9198 for 
more information.
Damn Yankees will be performed by 
the McKeesport Little Theatre at 8 pm 
every day this week. Call 673-1100 for 
more information.
The King and I, a musical by Rogers 
and Hammerstein, will be performed at 
8 pm through Saturday. At the White 
Bam Theatre in North Huntington. Call 
523-3916 for more information.
Agnes of God will be performed through 
Saturday by the Apple Hill Playhouse in 
Murraysville. Call 468-5050 for more 
information.
Torch Song Trilogy opens the season 
for East Libertys Upstairs Theatre this 
Thursday and will continue until Octo
ber 6. Call 481-0695 for more information.
On Golden Pond will start Friday and 
continue until October 7 at the Little 
Lake Theatre in McMurray. Call 745- 
6300 for more information.
Lectures
The School of Computer Sciences 
25th Anniversary Symposium will be 
held from next Monday until next 
Wednesday. The event will celebrate the 
25 years since the creation of the Com
puter Science Department in 1965. The 
presentation is open to the campus. The 
entire technical symposium will take 
place in the Carnegie Music Hall on 
Forbes Ave.
J. Reed Welker from the University of 
Arkansas will discuss Toxicology for the 
Chemical Engineer tomorrow at 10:45 
am in DH 1112 as part of the Depart
ment of Chemical Engineerings 1990 
Fall Seminar Program.
Author Lloyd F. Bitzer will speak on 
Science and Religion in EighteenthCentury Theories of Rhetoric tomorrow 
at 4:30 pm in the Adamson Wing of 
Baker Hall. Sponsored by the Depart
ment of English.
Judith Franz, president of the Ameri
can Association of Physics Teachers, will 
address Women in Science and Engi
neering tomorrow at 8:30 pm as part of 
the Presidents Distinguished Lecture 
Series. The discussions will include why 
so few women are in science and engi
neering and what can be done to change 
the situation. A Carnegie Mellon stu
dent/faculty panel discussion, Bringing 
It All Back Home: The Carnegie Mellon 
Experience, will follow the lecture.
Surviving and Thriving as a Woman 
or Minority at CMU, part two of the 
1990-91 Graduate Student Luncheon 
Seminar Series, will be held next Mon
day at 12:30 pm in Hamburg Hall 1001. 
You must register to participate, and 
space is limited. Register by email to 
jh5j@andrew or call x3356.
University Calendar offers free space for activities of interest to Carnegie Mellon students, faculty, 
and staff. The deadline for information is Friday at 3 pm before the next edition. Send your submissions 
to The Tartan, Box 17, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. You may also drop a 
submission in The Tartans drop folder in the Skibo zone on the AppleShare network. Space is limited 
and placement is not guaranteed. Please note the events listed on this page are subject to change.
Dai suki na De-bi-do kun, 
Tottemo omosiroi desu yo! 
Shimasen ka?
Anata no su-naa-gu-ru 
baa-ni, she-ru
Heather,
Its brewski, not beer.
Heather
Our love is God, lets get a 
slushy.
hello, i love you. lets go to the 
market...
Kevin, youre gay and youre 
madly in love with Alec.
Love, Jules
Mike,
We all know why youre not 
here.
Fuck me wheres the cheese?
I havent had a gasm yet this 
semester.
Some things are better left 
alone...
the schizo is back!
RECYCLE THIS, ASS
HOLE!
Are the hard ones any good ? 
Photosow
I just love it when I dress like a 
crook and then grabbing my 
nuts with an I dont give a fuck 
look!
La Rock/The Smooth 1
That kid keeps giving me these 
evil looks ... oops, there he 
goes again!
Dont call me Tits, 
hIts the DN syndrome all over 
again... but this time were the 
hunters ...
J.
Mon nite yartender, 
whatcha thinkin ? 
next time talk to me 
makes things easier
Robo and 44D are the roots 
of all evil.
SLIME (single liberal immoral 
male engineer) ISO SWF 
(single willing female) named 
Sue from Pitt, CMU, 
Duquesne, Chatham, Carlow, 
Robert Morris, or Point Park.
We are what we are. Were 
just like everybody else.
the Other Ones
On behalf of everyone that was 
at Tongues party last Friday, I 
would like to thank Gage for 
starting to pour beer on people.
Bam Bam
THOR:
Zero = Zero = Zero = Our 
grade in Eng. Anal.
I am proud to say that I poured 
Opecs last illegal beer.
Bam Bam
Our favorite Pirate is John 
Vertical Smiley.
Ray and Ed
The Emprer Chaz Reigns!
Im appalled at this exploita
tion.
Katie & Zuck
Where have all the Buds gone ?
The Ombudsmen
Dawn,
Youre a paranoid nutball but 
I love you anyways.
not stew
Stew,
Im not paranoid. But I like 
knights in shining armor 
anyways.
love, not Dawn
