---------------------------------------------------7
REMEMBER THE 
GUILD CARNIVAL 
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 9 j 
8 P. M.if &tan
CHRISTMAS VACATION 
SUNDAY, DEC. 17, TO 
MONDAY, JAN. 1, INC.
VOL. XVII. NO. 12CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH. PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1922
DR. LANGMUIR 
LECTURES ON 
ELECTRICITY
UNDERGRADUATES URGED 
TO VISIT CLAN MEETINGS 
WHILE HOME CHRISTMASThe Three Leaders of the Carnegie Band
Many Carnegie Students 
Hear Eminent Physicist 
Speak on Electron Emission 
at Langley Lab. Last Week
GIVES THREE TALKS
Dr. Irving Langmuir, research phys
icist of the General Electric Labora
tories at Schenectady, gave a series of 
three technical lectures on electron 
emission and current control. Dr. 
Langmuir is an authority in the field 
of research chemistry and physics. 
His lectures here at Langley Labora
tory attracted one of the most repre
sentative audiences of scientists that 
ever assembled in tbis city. Dr. Langmuirs recent contribution to the ad 
vancement of radio transmission by 
electron tubes has attracted much at
tention in the scientific world.
On Monday evening Dr. Langmuir 
discussed Electric Emission from 
Heated Metals. On Tuesday he con
tinued "with Electric Emission from 
Thoriated Filaments and on Wednes
day concluded with Methods of Con
trolling Electron Currents in High 
Vacuum."
A synopsis of Monday nigbts lec
ture follows:
When metals are heated in high 
vacuum, electrons, or atoms of nega
tive electricity evaporate from their 
surfaces. If there is another elec
trode in the evacuated space which 
is given a positive charge the elec
trons drift over to this electrode 
(anode) so that a current flows be
tween the two electrodes. Dusliman 
has recently derived an equation 
which should supersede the well. luiown Richardson equation, giving 
the relation between the electron cur
rent anft the temperature of the 
cathode. The advantage of this equa
tion is that there is only one con
stant which we need to know for each 
different cathode material, instead of 
two constants ^vhicli were necessary 
for the Richardson equation.
The electron emission from a large 
number of different materials have 
recently been assured. The Thoriated 
tungsten cathode gives a current at a 
'temperature of 1500 degrees absolute, 
which is about 130,000 times greater 
than that from ordinary tungsten. 
Measurements have also been made 
(Continued on Page Three.)
I Do you expect to be home over the 
'Christmas holidays? If you do, turn 
I immediately to the Directory of Car| negie Clans on the back page of this 
issue.
! Is there a Clan in .your town or 
one within a radius of fifty miles or 
I so of where you expect to be? 
j If there is, find out where it is, 
I who the Tschites are who are behind 
1 it, what their plans are, and when 
the next event is scheduled for.
Then go around and get acquaint
ed. Show them you take an active 
interest in what they are doing. Re
plenish their supply of th old, but 
ever youthful Tech spirit.
In return you will have spent a 
very pleasant time and .will have 
made some worth while acquaint
ances. But more than that you will 
have the satisfaction of having re
newed the bond between the Alumni 
and their Alma Mater.
SCHOOL PURCHASES 
VARSITY CAFETERIA
Complete Gym. Plans 
Will be Ready in Jan.
Hornbostels Idea is Approved 
By Gym. Committee
The Gym Committee l*as passed 
upon the plans of the new gym as 
designed by Architect Hornbostel and 
has accepted them. They are now 
before the Carnegie Tech School 
Committee for approval and will 
probably be submitted to . the Carne
gie Corporation soon.
Mr. Hornbostel  and his assistants 
are completing the details in the de
sign of the structure and the entire 
plans will soon be ready for publica
tion. With a fund o four hundred 
thousand dollars, a very complete 
(gym can be built.
The new gyjm should arouse much 
greater interest in such sports as 
basket ball and swimming than has 
heretofore been exhibited about Car
negie Tech, due to tne improved fa
cilities for those engaged in the con
test and those who attend as specta
tors. It will also free that part of 
the Langley Laboratory now efployed by P. T. classes, thus making 
it available for a much needed en
gineering drawing room or materials 
testing laboratory for which it is 
uniquely suited.
Ground which has always been 
more or less of an eyesore on the 
campus will be put to use and thus 
the appearance of the campus, the 
conditions about school, and the po
tentialities of the institution will be 
improved and enhanced.
Mid-Westerners Celebrate 
Thanksgiving With Banquet
The annual Thanksgiving banquet 
of the Mid-West Association was held 
last Thursday evening at seven 
oclock at the Chatham Hotel. This 
banquet is becoming one of the most 
enjoyable events of the school year 
for those who come from the mid-west 
and are unable to get home for 
Thanksgiving. The occasion this year 
was rendered still more enjoyable by 
the presence of the girls frctfn the 
mid-west. Heretofore only men were 
eligible for membership in the organi
zation and this banquet as the first 
joint social affair, marks a step in the 
advancement and growth of the as
sociation.
After a well served and enjoyable 
five course dinner, with President Ol
sen acting as toastmaster, the party 
was entertained with speeches ' from 
Messrs. Bamburger, Larsen, Green, 
and Wilson. Following these, the at(Continued on Page Three)
Miss Smith of Institute and 
M. M. Cafeterias to 
Have Charge
After striving vainly for the past 
two years to buck the tidal wave of 
strenuous competition, and lack of 
student support, the Varsity Clan 
Cafeteria sold out to the school on 
last Wednesday.
It would have been a good thing for 
Carnegie Tech had the students seen 
fit to support the Varsity Clan in this 
undertaking, as the returns were 
placed in the clan treasury and used 
to further the fame of Carnegie Tech. 
But, due to this lack of student pa
tronage, this might-have-been profit 
was simply non existent. Instead it 
went elsewhereresult: the Varsity 
Clan, after steadily losing money, 
sold out to the school. It could not 
stand the loss.
The plans for the future are hazy 
depending upon the students. It is 
known though that the school wlil 
attempt to operate on a basis of serv
ice to the students, at no profit to 
themselves. Prices will be charged 
only high enough to cover those ex
penses necessarily arising in the oper
ation. Dr. Esquerre will be in charge 
until the Christmas vacation; after 
which time, Miss Smith, of the Mar
garet Morrison and Institute cafeto-. 
rias, will assume control.
Just what her plans are is unknown 
to the writer, but it is believed that 
whatever they may be, they will be 
for the good of the student body. At
tention is called to the article under 
Comments
Y WILL GIVE CHRISTMAS 
DINNER AT M. E. CHURCH
A free Christmas dinner, for all 
students remaining in Pittsburgh 
over the holidays, will be given at 
the Oakland M. E. Church under the 
auspices of the Y. M. C. A. Those 
who wish toattend should notify 
Secretary Davis so that he can make 
the proper arrangements for their 
disposal. All Pittsburgh residents 
who desire to invite students to have 
IChistmas dinner with them should 
also inform Mr. Davis.
Last year a large number of Car
negie men and' women were guests of 
the Y. M. C. A., and others enjoyed 
the day with Pittsburgh families to 
whom they had been referred by the 
same organization. In this way the 
Y hopes to make Christmas more 
pleasant for those who expect to re
main here so that they too may en
joy their holidays.
ALL THISTLE PICTURES MUST 
BE FINISHED THIS WEEK
The sales by schools of the Thistle 
have not been compiled but approxi
mately seven hundred and fifty have 
been sold to date. Mr. Hollings
worth, chairman of the Thistle Board, 
reports that the pictures of all Sen
iors except two who are in the hos
pital, have been made, but that many 
fraternity pictures have not been tak
en. He urges that all proofs that 
are out for approval be returned to 
the Secretary in tho Union. Mr. 
Turgeon, the photographer, will be 
here Tuesday, Wednesday and Thurs
day of this week. This is the last 
call, all whose pictures have not 
been taken must have , them taken 
then or they will not appear in the 
Thistle.
Gl LES' ORCHESTRA TO PLAY
AT WOMENS JUNIOR PROM.
The Art Giles Orchestra has been 
secured by the Womens Junior Prom 
Committee to furnish music for the 
Womens Junior Prom. It is one of 
the best orchestras of Pittsburgh 
and has played at several school 
functions on the campus.
The Prom is to be held January 
19, at the Hotel Schenley. Prelimin
ary tickets will be on sale this 
week.
Left to rightP. A. Putt, Manager; Red Morris, Drum Major; E. F. Sullivan, Director.
Tartan Gridders to 
Be Shown in Movies
Proceeds of Show to Go 
to Fund For Band 
Uniforms
The movie man lias been on hand 
at practically every football game 
during the past season in which Car
negie was one of the contestants. 
Delays in the making of the films 
has been the cause of the delay in 
showing them, but the definite time 
and place at which they will be 
shown will be announced in the next 
issue of The Carnegie Tartan. In 
addition to scenes from the football 
games, a feature picture will be 
shown affording the audience an ex
ceptional program.
The football pictures will include 
the exciting moments at the W. and 
J. game, Robbies playing and the 
band at Penn State, as well as thrill
ing plays in all of the home games.
A small admission fee will lie 
charged and the proceeds of the per
formances used to derray the expen
ses entailed in the production of the 
films. Any amount taken in addition 
will be placed in the Kiltie Fund, 
according to word receivjed from the 
Graduate Managers Office.
A.I. E.E. TO HOLD JOINT 
MEETING DECEMBER 12
On Tuesday, December 12, at 8 p. 
m., the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology branch will hold d joint meet
ing with the Pittsburgh section of 
the American Institute of Electrical 
Engineers. The meeting will be held 
in the auditorium of the Chamber of 
Commerce at the corner of Seventh 
avenue and Smithfield street.
A very capable speaker for the 
occasion has been secured in the 
person of Mr. Denny W. Roper, su
perintendent of Street Department 
and of the Commonwealth Edison 
Company of Chicago, 111. He will 
deliver as his subject, Lightning 
Arresters." Mr. Roper possesses 
a national reputation as an expert 
in lightning protection, and the Car
negie Tech branch is fortunate in 
obtaining him to present his views 
before them.
The October meeting was devoted 
to discussion of Surges in Power 
Systems. It is logical to follow 
with this talk on Lightning Arrest
ers which are relied upon to protect 
our power systems from severe elec
trical discharges.
Mr. Roper will outline the princi
ples upon which the design of light
ning arresters is based, will trace 
their development, and will discuss 
the trend in design of some of the 
more recent types which have been 
placed upon the market.
Much of the success of the society 
on the campus is due W. S. Andrews, 
chairman, and W. T. Lyman secre
tary.
All guests are welcome and in
vited to participate in the discus
sion.
FRESHMEN AND *
SOPHOMORES NEEDED v 
ON ATHLETIC STAFF *
E. F. Sullivan, Director and Song Book tO be Ready 
Instructor; P. A. Putt, Manr n n m  
ager, and Red Morris, Drum Fr PreSS BY ChriStmaS 
Major, Deserve Recognition j J Musjc For Alma ^
Receives Favorable 
CommentHURRAH FOR SULLY'
Do you know Sully? We are sure 
you all do, but as a forethought he is 
the little, short, heavy-set man who 
tells the band when to stop playing 
by a full arm swing of his little brass 
horn. Usually done at the time tho 
quarterback begins calling signals at 
the Carnegie football games.
In a recent interview It was found 
that this man has more Carnegie 
spirit and of a much finer quality than 
any student in the. whole institution. 
He lias been with the Carnegie Band 
since nineteen thirteen as instructor 
and director. Before this time ho 
was band instructor in various state 
educational schools for men and hoys, 
which covered a period of eighteen 
years. When ho came here, a hand 
was unheard of, and only by his un
tiring and great interest in the school 
has he slowly produced a better band 
eacli year. He says that the band this 
year is not only the most unique or
ganization of spy college band, but 
can be ranked .as one of tho best con
cert organizations connected with any 
school in the United States. Tho 
band under Sullys leadership is now 
preparing for a number of concerts 
to bo given this winter and they will 
be of such quality that tho studont 
body can well be proud of this organi
zation.
Now to got hack to a short and hur
ried sketch of Sullys life, In tho first 
place his name is E. F. Sullivan. 
When very young ho was left an or
phan and it became necessary for him 
to be his solo provider throughout his 
entire life. However since he was 
very small, it has been Ills goal to bo 
a band director. 1-Ie has had no 
chance to obtain an education in 
school, so he has reached his goal and 
beyond by perseverance and hard 
work. He certainly needs to be con
gratulated on the position among the 
musicians of this district, which he 
has reached.
At present, besides directing the 
Carnegie Tech band he has an inter
est in the W. H. Witt Music Company, 
downtown, and also is starting a co(Continued On Page Two.)
Guild Awards Prizes in 
Carnival Poster Contest
* There are some openings on * 
'I* the Athletic Staff for Sopho* mores or Freshmen. The work
* is not of a difficult nature and *
anyone who would like to try *
* this branch of activities is urged
?> to come out. Either see the *>
Athletic Editor or leave your -J*> name at the Post Office ad*
?!* dressed to the Athletic Editor, v 
I* in care of The Carnegie Tartan. *
*4* *2*
?J. * * * *
The Carnegie Tech Girls Guild 
after due examination of the many 
fine posters which were submitted 
in the Carnival Poster contest has 
awarded prizes to the following:
First PrizeMartin Morganstern.
Second PrizeCatherine Eisaman.
Third PrizeGlenn Frost.
Fourth PrizeEdwin Couse.
Fifth PrizeDorothy Heller.
The Guild is giving the Carnival 
Saturday evening, December 9. Real
izing that they must have some real 
publicity in order to make a success 
of this unique affair, and that real 
good posters would accomplish this 
result, the Guild invaded the Col
lege of Fine Arts and told the stu
dents there of its desire. The result 
was the inauguration of the Poster 
contest. As you may well see if you 
will look about the campus, the 
Guild received * many clever and sug
gestive posters.
The Girls Guild appreciates this 
co-operation on the part of the stur 
dents and Wishes especially to thank 
those students of the College of Fine 
Arts who worked so hard to make 
the publicity contest successful.
MUSICAL CLUBS WILL HOLD 
JOINT MEETING DECEMBER 11
There will be a joint meeting of 
the Musical Clubs on Sunday, Decem
ber 10, at 3:00 p. m., In I he Carnegie 
Union. A program has been ar
ranged and refreshments will be
served. All members of the various
Musical Clubs are expected to turn
out.
The song book committee, appoint
ed last year to prepare a volume com
posed of the songs most appropriate 
to Carnegie Tech, is at last drawing 
its splendid work to a close, with 
about twenty-five songs ready for tho 
new book. Tho committee is especi
ally to bo commended for having gone 
ahead in its work with little or no as
sistance from the studont body.
Favorable comments from all quar
ters have greeted tho now music for 
the Alma Mater, which was prepared 
by J. Viclc OBrien of tho Music De
partment and director of tho Sym
phony Orchostra. Under his supervi
sion,' it was presented for the first 
time on Carnogio Day by tho Mons 
Glee Club and Orchostra 'combined. 
Those who have hoard tho othor now 
songs obtained by the committee have 
expressed their conlldonco in their fu
ture popularity.
Suggestions, which are rather slow 
in coming in, are still welcome, and 
may bo handed to coinmlttoe mem
bers personally or mailed to tho com
mittee, In caro of tho post office. II; 
is hopod to have tlio song book ready 
for tho press boforo tho Christmas re
cess.
DIRECTOR-GENERAL OF PANAMERICAN UNION TO SPEAK 
AT ASSEMBLY NEXT WEEK
Dr. Thomas S. Baker, acting prestj 
dont, lias announced that L. S. Rowe, 
director general of tho Pan-American i 
Union at Washington, D. C., had been 
engaged to speak at the general stu
dont assembly on December 18. Mr. 
Rowe, who is a former assistant sec
retary of tho United States treasury, 
is one of the leading economists of 
tho country.
Ho is best known for his services i 
for tho government in Ills political 
connections with the countries of Ceilj 
tral and of South America. For many 
years ho served on various commis
sions to these countries, and is per
haps the best-informed man today on 
the political relations between the 
United States and tho nations south 
of it. His subject will be "The Pres
ent International Situation On tho 
American Continent.
It has also been announced by Dr. 
Baker that Simeon D. Fess, educator, 
ex-congressman and ex-governor of 
Ohio, will address the student assem
bly on January 10.
JINGLE BELL 
INN FEATURES 
GUILD BAZAAR
PROMINENT MEN 
TALK AT ASSEMBLY
Judge Buffington and Mr, 
Okomoto, Are on 
Program
ROSS HERTZ RECEIVES 
CHEERLEADERS LETTER
Tho lioad cheerleader will reoolvo 
insignia this yoar for his work, The 
Studont Council last yoar passed a 
motion that tho head cheerleader bo 
awarded some sort of suitable insig
nia to bo' granted by the Council. 
Last Thursday night at its mooting 
the Council accepted a scarlet C 
odged with plaid as the cheerleader 
Insignia. It is to bo worn on a white 
sweater. This letter will be awarded 
each year to the head cheerleader. 
Ross Hertz will receive one this 
year.
Several committees made reports 
to the Council. A1 Irwin gave a list 
of the organizations on the campus 
which are recognized and entitled to 
have pictures in the Thistle. That 
list is given elsewhere in tills issue. 
Brumbaugh gave a final report for the 
Campus Week committee. All of the 
business of the committee has been 
finished and a check for eight hun
dred and forty-five dollars and ninetythree cents has been turned over to 
the treasurer of the Council.
The general Freshman regulations 
committee reported that trials were 
being held in all of the colleges and 
that offending Plebes were receiving 
proper punishment. Records have 
been made of all those exempted from 
regulations. It was recommended 
that the method of trial in Arts Col
lege be changed.
Interesting talks by Judge Buffing
ton one of the Trutsees of Carnegie 
Tech and by Mr. Okomoto, his 
Japanese friend from Now York 
City and Tokio, featured at last 
Wednesdays Industries Assembly, 
Dean Morris brought in tho visi
tors and introduced Judge Buffington, 
Tho Judge easily demonstrated to. 
those p'resont that ho had a big in
terest in Carnegie Tocli and boliovos 
In tho Carnogio motto "My heart is 
in my work." He told of being 
aslcod by Mr. Carnogio several years 
boforo tlio various buildings wore 
built as to his opinion whether the 
school as planned would last or 
whether It would fall to draw in tho 
studonts to keep it going. Judge 
Buffington answered that tlioi'o were 
fifteen thousand taking oorrospondence school coursos In tho Pitts
burgh district and that with so many 
clamoring for a higher education 
there would be no hood to worry 
about tho futuro of tho school. Judge 
Buffington then told of tho activities 
of his friend Mr. Okomto, who 
came to tho United States in 1004 
and in tho last eighteen, yours has 
bocomo an Influential bunlnoss man 
In Now York City. Mr. Okomoto re
turns every yoar to Japan and speak 
to many audlonoos trying to devel
op a strong bond between America 
and Japanese Interests. Tho Judge 
then Introduced Mr. Okomoto who 
proved to bo one of tho wittiest and 
most Intelligent speakers heard tills 
yoar. Mr, Okomoto talked In a low, 
soft voice with a difit Inset dlaloat, 
but he talked so ontortalnly I hat 
tho studonts had no difficulty In un(Gontlnuod on Pago Throo)
Dean Brown, Carl Heinrich, 
Dot Chalmers, and Mary 
Spears Are AmongLead
ing Entertainers
TICKETS ON SALE
DR. S. H. GOLDENSON WILL BE
AT CHAPEL TOMORROW
Rabbi Dr. Samuel IT. Goldenson of 
the Rodef Shalom congregation, will 
be the speaker at the chapel service 
in the Little Theater" of the College 
of Fine Arts this Thursday at 12:30.
Rabbi Goldenson is a very popular 
and influential man in Pittsburgh. Ho 
is a very able speaker and wo are 
fortunate In having him with us,
SCIENCE PLEBE8 TO HOLD
ORGANIZATION 8MOKER
According to E. S. Mills, class presi
dent, the Science Freshmen are to 
have a smoker soon. Complete plans 
are not worked out yet, but it Is 
aimed to make It an Important gath
ering.
In the meanwhile, each Plebe 
should be thinking about this smoker, 
and be ready to give it his full sup
port when the date and program Is 
announced.
S0PH-PLEBE SMOKER 
THIS FRIDAY NIGHT
Friday evening, December 8, the 
Science Sophs will entertain tho 
Plobo class of that school with a 
smoker to bo given In tho Union. The 
smolcer Is an annual affair, glvon so 
that tho members of the two classes 
may become better acquainted with 
one another.
The program that has been arrang
ed is an interesting one, and includes 
talks by Director Mott, IT. K. KirkPatrick and Bill Pfouts. A wrestling 
match between Courageous Cummins 
and Terrible Trescliel has been se
cured as an added attraction and sev
eral other novel entertainments have 
been procured. An orchestra compos
ed of members of the Sophomore 
class will furnish harmony through
out the evening, and it is whispered 
that it is just possible that there may 
be something to eat.
(Continued on Page Three.)
The largest social affair put on by 
any organization at this time of the 
year, will bo the M. M. C. Guild Car
nival. It will be the result of the ef
forts of tho girls of both Margaret 
Morrison and Arts schools to raise 
money to carry on their settlement 
work.
All students, who will take it upon 
tliemsolvos to be among those pres? 
ont In Langley Laboratory at S:30 
P. M., Friday, December 9, will cer
tainly find it tho beginning of one 
of the most enjoyable evenings of 
their lives. Langley Lab, for tho 
occasion, will be known as Jingle 
Bell Inn, and here will assemble 
representatives of the faculty, alumni 
and studont body in the roles of hosts, 
and hostesses. In this Hostess House, 
Miss Brown, Dean of Women, will pre
side as honorary hostess.
Festivities will begin with the Old 
Boars Head Procession. To tlio 
clansmen who are not already famil
iar with this grand old Scottish rit
ual, it will prove highly Interesting 
and educational as well. To start tlio 
evening off in good fashion, thoro 
have boon several surprises planned, 
which will lcoop ovoryono on the alert.
Thoro will bo prizes awarded for 
several of tlio dances; cake-walks, 
dancing, partner dances and others. 
And then, just for novelty, Karl Hein
rich will entertain with Interpretive 
danoos. Other dancers will bo In evi
dence, too, for several of tho faculty 
children huvo consontod to present a 
tow numbers. Thoy will also assist 
Santa Claus, who has informed tho 
girls that ho will positively bo there 
without fall.
Card tables will bo found by tho 
pleasure soekors In tho Jingle Boil 
Inn," whdro somo may spend a most 
delightful evening at Bridge. Anno 
Wubor, noting as studont hoHteefa will 
sqo that ovoryoho finds plenty to oc
cupy the time spont at tho Inn.
Those desiring to whllo away tho 
evening dancing, may llll their doslro 
at the "ICrls Klnglo Shanty"-- the Car
negie Union all dressod up In holiday 
attire! It In rumored that cut-in 
(Contlnuod on Pago Four.)
Symphony Orchestra 
Will Give Recitals
Plans Being Made to Develop 
Pittsburgh Symphony
NON-PAYMENT OF DUES
MAY RAISE PRICE OF PROM.
The price of tickets to the Junior 
Prom will be Increased at Christmas 
if the clans dues do not come in 
faster than at present. Such is the 
statement of Pat Ryan> chairman of 
the Prom Committee. The Junior 
Class is falling far behind in their 
financial assistance to the one big 
event of tbeir year.
Tho class dues are made up of 
one dollar and a half, which Is a pre
Within live hours after tho Musio 
Department Invited by tolophono the 
pilbllc school students of Pittsburgh 
to attend tho rehearsal concert of tho 
Symphony Orchostra on Friday after
noon, DocoYnbor 8, four thousand 
seven hundred applications wore recolvod. As Carnogio Music ITall has 
a capacity of two thousand, the de
cision has boon made to glvo a sec
ond rehearsal concert on Monday aft
ernoon, Docomber 11, for the public 
school students.
Both concerts will bo glvon at \ p. 
m. If tho applications continue to 
pour In as fast as they did immediate
ly following tho first announcement, 
the Music Department may decide to 
give a third concert for the students.
On Sunday evening, December 10, 
Pittsburgh lovers of music jvlll have 
an opportunity to hear the Symphony 
Orchostra In a public concert at Car
negie Music Hall. As a result of the 
generous response of a group of local 
residents who have subscribed the 
expenses of this concert, Director 
Bossange announces that the plan to 
develop tlip. orchestra into a Pitts
burgh Symphony is now definitely 
shaping Itself.
The symphony, under the leader
ship of Professor J. Vick OBrien, will 
include about 75 members, consist
ing of Carnegie Tech students, alumni 
and reinforcements from the faculty.
Debating Club Elects
W.J. Reilly President
The next meeting of the Debating 
Club will be held Thursday, Decem
ber 7, at 8:00 p. m., Ih the Y" Club
llmlnary assessment for the Prom I Rooms. Preceding the meeting tho
and which will be credited towards 
a ticket, and sevenl.y-five cents which 
Is the class duos proper. This Is a 
very small amount for a Junior Class 
assessment and every true Carnegie 
Junior should get his dues In irnmodlatoly. II' your section loader doesnt 
see you, look him up. Tho Prom 
Committee has to know how many 
to plan for and the only moans thoy 
have of knowing Is by tho number 
of mon that pay their class dues. 
It Is realized that there has been a 
heavy drain on the financial resources 
of all tho students due to all tho 
campaigns and drives this fall but 
the Junior Banquet has been post
poned in order that the Prom assessExocutlve Committee will hold a bus
iness meeting at 7,.80. Tho following 
question >vlll he discussed: Resolved, 
that tho Fordney-McCumbor tariff bill 
is a wise one."
Tho last mooting held Tuesday, 
November 28, was well attended, 
about twenty Interested members boIng prosont. Plans wore discussed to 
Increase tho membership of tho or
ganization, as was tho program for 
tho coming yoar.
Officers olectod for the coming 
year are: W. J. Reilly, president;
G, A. Shaerko, secretary; Vana, 
treasurer, and E. J. Maust, publicity 
manager.
All students interested in this club
ments may come in. See to it that are welcome and invited to particiyour dues are in this week. pate in the discussions.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1922
CarnigiEtan
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Instituto of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.___________
COMMENTS
Entered In the Postofflce of Pittsburgh an second-class matter.
VICTOR II. STROMQUIST ............................................................. Editor-In-Chief
TelephoneHlland 858.
H. D. SONNEMANN.................................................................... Business Manager
TelephoneSchenley 9211
EDW. A. BRAND............................................................................ Managing Editor
TelephoneSchenley 0143
KENNETH ARNOLD .................................................................... Associate Editor 1
H. F. SIMPSON .............................................................................. Associate Editor
TelephoneSchenley 1)079
II. F. DIETER ......................................................................................... Nows Editor
T el e p lion oI I a / ol 9 'A 9 8
E. J. MAUST .......................................................................................... News Editor
TolephoneHazel 9422
II. II. WILSON..............................................................................    Athletic Editor
TelephoneIIa/,ol 935G
II. I, T.AY ............................................................................................... Photographer
R. 13. KI3LL1BR ..........................................................................Exchange Editor
E. P. GSE; .................................................................................................A't Editor
T. S. REPPLIEIl ................................................................................ Special Writer
J. K. MATTER ................................................................................   Special Writer
WHAT WIIL BECOME OF
THE CAMPUS CAFETERIA?
J. M. COOPER........................................................................ Advertising Manager
TelephoneSclionloy 8211
J. C. MAJOR............................................................................ Circulation Manager
TolephonoSclionloy 9102
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
P. C. McKenzie, L. Hertzman, M. S. Downes, F. C. Smith, L. Byerly, W. 
K. Sheppard, F. D. Rossini, W. Winning, F. T. Phelps, Catherine Moyers.
ATHLET! C CONTRIB UTORS 
II. J. McCormick, J. A. Berno, E. C. Frazier, J. II. Ferguson.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
E. Sowers, W. B. Cunningham, P. F. Sehuckor, T. J. Dempsey, J. B. 
LaudIg, D. Moskovllz, J. W. Metro, P. W. Reilly, R. II. Young and I-I. Gibson.
Tlio Editor-In-Chief Is responsible for tho policy of this paper; tho 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld If dosirod. All nows Items must bo in tho student 
postolllco before 4:30 Friday.
Tartan OlllceRoom G-A, Industries Building. Oillco hoursTuesday, 
11:80 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00._________________________________________
SCHOOL FLOWER NEEDED
Eacli year traditions arc established, but our school is newand 
many more customs are needed.
Suggestions for a Carnegie flower would not be out oi order at 
the present time, and in adopting a school flower we need not to 
conform to our Scottish lendency'unless something appropriate could 
be found that would bo cheap enough and available during football 
season.
A CARNEGIE SETTLEMENT
A settlement bouse in one oJ: the city's slums is to be founded 
by Carnegie girls. This is a fine idea imd a noble conception of doing 
good. The purpose is of course to teach thoso children of the streets 
some of the finer things in life, to impart to them some ol! the rudi
ments of education which they can* not get from the public schools. 
To accomplish this objective money is needed and therefore the 
Christmas Carnival to be held Saturday evening. This is a worthy 
undertaking and deserves tho support oJ! all Carnegie alumni and 
students.
THE TIME IS NOW
It is often said that Americans are time worshipers; it is true to 
a limited extent, for wo are always trying to deviso new methods to 
save time; but while we are saving on one hand there is waste on tho 
other. Procrastination in the modern thief ol! timo, how often do wo 
hear the statement: I. haven't timo now? If a thing is not done 
now tho clumcos are top to one that it will never be done; to put a 
job oIV moans that there is only a slight possibility of its ojcecution 
and usually tho timo taken from tho present and appropriated to tho 
futuro is lost, wasted, gone 1orevor. The porson who has learned to 
save time is indeed thrifty, he has learned tho value of the greatest 
elcinoul; of human endeavor. Time past is gono, time wasted today 
can not bo mado up tomorrow, because tomorrow brings new duties 
and obligations. A college man who has not learned tho prociousnoss 
ol' time is doomed to the modiocro cIiinh.
Student Calendar
WUDNJilSDAY, MOISMBEB (i
DramaRita Coventry.....................................................8:15, Arts Theater
THURSDAY, DMODMBBR 7
Drama--Rita Coventry.....................................................8:15, Arts Theater
Chapel..............................................................................12:30, Arts Thoator
Band Practice.......................................................................................7 :()(), Union
MUDAY, DECEMBER 8
DanceCosmopolitan Club.............................................................0:0(), Union
Drama Rita Coventry......................................................8:15, Arts Theater
SATURDAY, DECEMBER, 9 
BazaarGirls Guild.....................................8:00, Union and Langley Lab.
SUNDAY, DMBMBBR 10
Musical Clubs Practice .................................................................................. 2:30
Symphony Concert..................................................8:15, Carnogio Music Hall
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 16 
Christmas Vacation.
Mr. R. M. Reigel, of West 
Penn Speaks Before A.S.C.E.
Mr. R. M. Reigel talked on 'Flood 
Control Work ot' the Miami Conserva
tory Project, to tho student chapter 
A. S. C. E., last Thursday a week. 
Mr. Reigel was connected with this 
project as chief designer of tho work. 
1-Ie is at present hydraulic engineer 
for the West Penn Power Company.
This project was a direct result of 
the disastrous flood in 1913 in the 
Miami valley in southwestern Ohio. 
It took five years to finish vnrious 
legal matters nnd to get all of the 
preliminary arrangements completed. 
It wns necessary to obtain land for 
the five reservoirs to be built, and 
to relocate villages and railroads. The 
channel of the Miami River in tho cit
ies of Dayton and Middleton had to 
bo dredged and widened. Dams had 
to be built.
By tho uso of slides tho method of 
construction of tho earth dams was 
cloarly shown. Conduits In tho base 
provided for flow of tho water and 
hydraulic jumps wore Installed to re
duce tlio velocity of tho water during 
ilood times.
MISS FISHER ATTENDS
HOME ECONOMICS MEET
Mining Students Doing 
Practical Part-Time Work
Miss Genevieve Fisher, head of the 
Department of Vocational Homo Eco
nomics Teacher Training at Margaret 
Morrison College, represented Car
negie Tech at the meeting of tho 
Homo Economics Section of tho Na
tional Society for Vocational Educa
tion, in Detroit, from November 29 to 
December 2.
Miss Fisher was recently invited to 
serve on a national committee which 
is to make a study of Home Econom
ics from the point of view of training 
and the absorption capacity of the 
field for trained workers.
It has come to bo, as Hamlet 
would put It. "To bo or not to be; 
that Is tho question."
You studonts must mako a deci
sion-no one else can. A chance is 
being givenwhat are you going 
to decide?
Do you want a cafeteria on tho 
campus, or not? Its up to you!
Starting Monday, the Varsity Clan 
Cafeteria under supervision of Enos 
Kirkpatrick ceased to be, and in Its 
place, a cafeteria started, operated 
by Dr. Esquerre, of the Student 
Health Department.
Radical changes have beon made: 
different types of food, differently 
prepared, and at lower pricos; less 
help, and inoro thought for the stu
dent welfare, have boon instituted as 
a policy. *
In the past the cafeteria was run 
by the Varsity Clan and private cap
ital In order to mako a profit. It 
failed to paythe competition was 
too great; the food prepared was 
not the proper kind for studonts; 
tho prices wero not in accord with 
student wealth; the overhead was 
too great. These have boon reme
died. An effort Is being made to 
promote a cafeteria on the campus, 
and for tho good of the student body.
Its up to you followsby your pa
tronage you can make known your 
decision. Support an Institution 
which is working for your good!
The facts are thesethe competi
tion Is great; three restaurants at 
Craig and Forbes; ono at the Bu
reau of Mines; one at the Institute, 
one at Margaret Morrison, and two 
more on Woodlawn.
Remember! The cafeteria is hand
ily located, and is operated for YOU.
Got behind itpatronize it, for by 
your actions will be decided. TO 
BE OR NOT TO BE!
I PROF. LONG GIVES 
SHILLING REVIEW
Roarner has heard various defini
tions of optimism but the fellow 
who said: 1 never received more 
than a major warning" takes the 
prize for being the best example.
Perhaps the three lectures of Dr. 
Irving Langmuir were a bit too tech
nical for people who were not espe
cially Interested In the subjects of 
his lectures, but among his audience 
there were people who came to hear 
him for the sole purpose of admiring 
his extreme accuracy in the proving 
of a theorem. He left no doubt in 
one's mind of any statement that he 
made. It is seldom that a person Is 
foand that can make his audience 
boliove in him' to such a degree as 
ho does himself.
Policy of Recomposed Paper 
That of AH Carnegie 
Publication
Hardly a day passes that we do 
not hear two students in the midst 
of a heated argument over the rela
tive Importance of the various de
partments of the school. Day in and 
day out It is Arts vs. Science or 
Colle^o of Engineering vs. College of 
Fine Arts. Is there anyone of us 
attending one of the schools in posi
tion to judge tho other school? It is 
quite true that an engineer would 
present rather a queer conception of 
art were he asked to paint a picture; 
likewise it is true that tne majority 
of the people would feol rather un
easy about crossing a bridge built 
'by a music student, but at any rate 
each division represents the best in 
that -field, and each is doing its part 
in sending out into the world experts 
In every line. Why the continued ar
gument? Little is gained from it.
JULIAN STREET TO SEE
RITA COVENTRY DECEMBER
Uually the fellows that are contin
ually razzing tho Drama Department 
are found waiting in line at the en
trance every time that department 
presents a play in the Little Theater.
Ocar Wilde said the evolution of 
man* is slow. Quite right. If it 
were not so slow there would be few
er believers in Darwins theory.
When Julian Street, the novelist, 
dociderl to have his latest book "Rita 
Coventry" converted into a play, he 
gave the work to Professor Hubert 
Osborne, of Carnegie Tech. On the 
evening of December 12th, Mr. Street 
will sit In the Arts Theater and watch 
tho dramatization presented by the 
drama students. Thus, another 
achievement will be recorded in the 
progress of Carnogio Tochs dramatic 
department.
"Rita Coventry" the story of a tem
peramental opera singer has been ono 
of tho years best sellers. It appeared 
In the Saturday Evoning Post In April, 
and was published In book form In 
Septomber. Mr, Osborno, tho author 
of "Shore Loavo, rocognlzod tho pos
sibilities of "Rita Coventry as a play 
whon aslcod by Mr. Street to drama
tize It, and the result Is that Pitts
burgh will have tho first opportunity 
to see tho famous story enacted on 
tho stage as a throo-act comedy.
Mr. Stroot was in tho city last week 
to confer with Mr. Osborno and to 
watch tho developments In tho pro
gress of Its dramatization. If tho lo
cal presentation is successful, it is 
quite likely, according to Mr. Osborno, 
that tho play will, bo taken to Now 
York for professional production. 
Brock Pemberton, (lie producer of 
"lllnfer Madame," "Miss Lulu Bott," 
and other -7RRE--RM will also bo boro 
for tho opening performance, and Da
vid Belaseo la oxpocted to Bend a roproBontntlvo.
Miss BR-T Johnson, who has done 
brilliant work In past productions at 
Carnogio Toch. will potray Rita Cov
entry. Jack Willard as Richard Par
rish, and Vorner TIaldon, as Patrick 
Delaney, the piano tuner, will assume 
loading roles.
Mr. Osborno will produce tho play 
in the Arts Theater on tho evenings 
of December 12, 13. 14 and 15.
THE THREE LEADERS OF
THE CARNEGIE BAND
Mr. Daugherty, an instructor in this 
department, is now working on a parttime job for E. A. Eaveuson & Co., 
Consulting Mining Engineers, with 
offices downtOAvn. Dr. Daugherty 
graduated from this school in nine
teen fifteen and, after obtaining fi 
large amount of mining experience in 
this district, he returned to this 
school and accepted a position as in
structor in this department.
This same company also employs 
two students from the department for 
part-time throughout the week and on 
Saturdays. On looking over the list 
of students in this department, it wns 
found that the majority of them are 
working for coal companies and doing 
other practical work on Saturdays. 
Some of tho companies employing 
studonts are tho Consumers Mining 
Company at. Hnrmarvlllo; tho Bureau 
of Minos, Pittsburgh, and AUoghony 
Coal Company. Ono studont works 
as an assistant In tho mining labora
tory.
MR. MclNTOSH OF METAL
LURGICAL DEPT. TO SPEAK
F. F. McIntosh, Associate Profes
sor In Metallurgy at Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, has been Invited 
to speak on December 7 boforo the! 
annual meeting of the American Potroleum instituto at St. Louis. The' 
call to Mr. McIntosh is the result of| 
research work conducted in tho De
partment of Mining and Metallurgy 
at the Carnegie Toch on certain poducts used oxtensively in the petro
leum industry. The subject of his 
address will be "Application of 
Metallurgical Research to the Petro
leum Industry.
(Continued From Pae One.} 
ed band at the State Normal at In
diana, Pa.
He is very popular among the mem
bers of the Carnegie Band nnd now 
since the kiltie dream has been real
ized, he will be aljle to produce a bet
ter nnd larger band in the coming 
years.
The manager of the band this year 
is P. A. Putt. 1-Ie was elected to this 
position last June at the annual band 
banquet on account of his personality 
and his! regular attendance iat re
hearsals. Putt is a man who has had 
a largo amount of band experience, 
as he played in a military band over
seas during the war. During this time 
he lost one of his linnds, but he is still 
able to play the big tuba horn as well 
as ever. He certainly deserves great 
credit for his loyalty to. the band on 
all occasions. 1-Ie has been very use
ful to tho band in obtaining lnrger 
funds for the bnnd from both the 
Studont Actlvltlos Board nnd the Ath
letic Board,
"Rod" Morris Is tho bands cele
brated drum major. Ho also hold this 
position last year and was very popu
lar whon ho marohod ahead of tho 
band in a lclltle outfit. Tho Studont 
Council appointed him on tho kilts 
oommittoo and ho made a great, succoss In tlio Industries Division by 
raising more monoy than any of tho 
othor divisions. It. was "Rod tlmt 
looked after tho buying of tho kilts 
and was responsible for tho band get
ting the kilts for tho last game of 
tho soason. Ho certainly makes a 
very distinctive drum major in tho 
now specially designed kiltie uniform 
and he cannot be too highly praised 
for his work in the band.
Roamer says that a feeling of sat
isfaction is far worse than that of 
dissatisfaction. Too many of us are 
satisfied with ourselves and content 
to bo in the future what we are in 
the present. Get rid of that feeling 
of satisfaction; try to improve. Were 
we perfect now, there would be noth
ing to live for and we would be a 
hindrance to the progress of human
ity.
Speaking of fights Roamer thinks 
of a few individuals on the campus 
who would probably look like the 
scrabled egg were they ever unfor
tunate enough to get in a little mixup. Have you ever noticed one of 
that typo gently trotting down tho 
walk, with a Plebe hat soperched 
on the forehead that a breath of 
wind would blow It Qff? Contrast 
ono of his kind with tiie follow who 
wears the Plebe cap as It should be 
worn nnd carries himself ns a real 
Carnegie man. If you are in a shell 
coino out of it boforo some ono 
cracks it so hard that something 
more than the shell breaks.
If you wore fortunate enough to 
got out of Plebe regulations than 
bo man enough to keep out of tho 
scraps. A rope and a treo nro too 
good for tho follow w|io is exempted 
from regulations, posos nsa Sophomoro when the Soph are stronger 
and then turns Plobo whon tho 
Sophs are on tho run.
ROAMER.
Noted Japanese Speak 
At M.M.C.C. Assembly
Judge Buffington Introduces 
Mr. Okomato and Guests
Prof: "What are the names of the
bones in your hand, Mr. Smith?"
Mr. Smith: Dice.The Tech
nique, Georgia Tech.
Margaret Morrison Assembly last 
Wednesday was honored by the pres
ence of Miss Moto a Japanese 
Princess. Mr. and Mrs. Okomato and 
Judge Buffington.
Judge Buffington spoke of the com
ing of Okomato to this county in 
1904 and of his adoption by an Amer
ican school teacher, now seventy 
years of age, who became his Amer
ican mother, and later the American 
mother of his wife when Okomato 
brought her to the States. Judge 
Buffington expressed the belief that 
it would ibe teaching and higher edu
cation that would weld Japan and 
the United States closer together and 
put away the idea of war. He also 
spoke about Miss Moto, who is a 
Japanese Princess. Her father is 
the most prominent Buddhist figure 
in Japan, and he has sent his daugh
ter for a several years visit to the 
States with Judge Buffington as her 
guardian.
He then introduced Mr. Olcomatc 
who kept his audience in repeated 
gales of laughter by his witty re
marks. 1-Ie said that it was becom
ing quite the custom in Japan to 
send their young women to the 
States for a few j*ears further cul
ture. Tho schools in Japan, ho stated, 
are far inferior fo thoso in the 
United States becauso Japan lias 
neither the room nor tho ipeans. 
Consequently everything is narrow, 
crowded and rostrictod, "That Is why 
wo dont grow any larger, ho said. 
"Wo don't hnvo room.
Mr. Okomato is a writer on educa
tional subjects, and his latost book 
which is to bo translated into Eng
lish contains stories of famous 
American heroes, for school chil
dren. English is tho second national 
language iii Japan Mr. Okomato as
sorted, and is taught in all the high 
schools there. As a rule the schol
ars read and write in English better 
than they can speak it.
Mr. Okomato presented Director 
Breed with a beautifully bound vol
ume of his last book in Japanese 
and stated that as soon as it comes 
out in English he will ask Her to 
take a copy of that.
Shilling appears this month in a 
new dress with a new spirit. I have 
not as yet seen its dress, but I under
stand that it is entirely recomposed 
with a view to making it more decor
ative, and that from now on it will 
include occasional drawings in black 
and white, to be chosen by new asso
ciate editors in the College of Fine 
Arts.
As for the spirit, the first editorial 
says that from now on Shilling must 
be of Tech, by Tech, and for Tech, 
the spirit of unity on the college campus'making the moment propitious 
for the editors to open the magazine 
to contributors from all four schools. 
The other editorial invites us to be 
tolerant, and says that college life 
should leave us with more than book 
knowledge. "We must learn to co
operate with others and work for the 
good of a common cause without put
ting our opinions above those of our 
fellow worker.
Such tolerance is not the variety 
which a Sophomore recently defined 
in one of my classes as the bliss of 
decaying minds. On the contrary, I 
make bold to say that if, as I have 
been taught, education be the trans
mitting of a tradition, there is noth
ing more important for an American 
college to pass on than this same spir
it of tolerance and spontaneous co
operation, for it is at the base of the 
good qualities we lump together in 
the word Americanism.
The topic increases in interest in 
the account of the projected develop
ment of the Guild into an all-Tech 
community House, in the melancholy 
district of the city near Greenfield 
and Second avenues, which is known 
as the Run. Such an idea, the ar
ticle points out, cannot be realized or 
come to success without the sympa
thy of us all; and so, on the ninth 
of December there will be a Christ
mas Carnival, to enlist our general in
terest. Surely we should not be diffi
cult to interest; we are being offered 
a new source of knowledge of the city 
about us, and a splendid incentive for 
action in compassion.
The new spirit of Shilling is ap
parent also in the inclusion of depart
ments dealing with art and literature. 
I am informed that our plays and ex
hibitions will receive notice, and noth
ing could be better, for our diverse 
activities invite the reflective eye.
I was somewhat surprised by the 
brusque phraseology of the anony
mous art critic who writes in this is
sue of the exhibition of Pittsburgh ar
tists. Criticising a critic is a pale 
occupation; but it seems to me that 
one can afford to be genial when dis
cussing the productions of art. They 
are for our pleasure, and their occa
sional aberrations will explode no 
bombs beneath our property. Yet the 
unknown writes in a stern mood, for 
example: We consider the current
show at the Carnegie galleries as ter
rific propaganda against local art, 
and so sweeping a gesture leads me 
fo suspect that I am listening to ono 
who, while he may not be a fanatic 
at pl-esent, is moved by an almost 
fanatical predilection in the matter of 
taste. The doctrine insinuated in the 
abrupt paragraphs which follow 
seems to -be that design comes to its - 
own only In tho exotic and the fantas
tic, while the realistic may go hang.
In addition to the notices which 
deal satisfactorily with current read
ing material, Shilling contains two 
sketches and four poems. Mr. Sharp, 
on a stroot car lurching through tho 
mill district In the light of a sicken
ing dawn, feels doubts ns to whether 
this is tho Life Perfect, and ho per
suades mo to share his qualms. Mrs. 
Van Bulskerlc describos the succes
sive degrees of mental fatigue be
cause of which a person of intelli
gence allows herself to be swindled 
by a verbose book agent. The sketch 
is sprightly enough, but it leaves a 
dark taste. The long-winded triumph 
too often in this world: can it be that 
they are the fittest to survive? If so. 
the last episode of earthly existence 
will doubtless be an inglorious dis
pute between Mr. Dogmatic and Mrs. 
Stick-to-it. As to the verse, perhaps 
the archaeologists from Mars whose
SCHCOCLC Colors Honored Special Lectures For 
In Carnegie Day Parade jn(j Management Class
On Carnegie Day the ceremony of 
receiving the colors was held in 
front of the Central Building, and 
the colors were then escorted by 
the entire R.' O. T. C. Unit to the 
Music Hall. The procession was an 
impressive one, and the boys showed 
results of good discipline and train
ing.
The battalion was in command of 
Second Lieutenant A. II. Anderson. 
Officer Reserve Corps, who graduated 
from the four-year R. O. T. C. course 
last year.
Psychplogy Department Will 
Provide Speakers
Community House 
Planned by Guild
Will be Placed in Forward 
Ave. Slum District
| future excavations on tile Tecli camI pus  are prophesied by the writer of 
i Views from our Window, may turn. 
I up a bound copy of Shilling and note 
i with pleasure that as early as 1922 
American undergraduates  with 
Scotch and Irish blood, of course 
were writing good verse. Miss Kirker lacks daring, but shows promise. 
Miss Grant shows perhaps too much 
daring m attempting to unite her 
metre on this occasion with her mood, 
though her good qualities are definite. 
Mr. McCarthys two lyrics seemed to 
me extraordinarily fine, and the out
standing feature of the issue.
I confess that when I was invited 
to review this number of Shilling, I 
determined to use the occasion for an 
attack on proof readers here, there 
and everywhere, treating them as 
scandalously ns our unknown art crit
ic did the realistic painters. I had 
even gathered some horrible exam
ples from the coarse growth of read
ing matter through which modern 
man pushes Ills path; but being given 
the Shilling in manuscript, and not 
the proof sheets, perhaps through the 
cunning of the editors, I had to fore
go my intention. If tho proof reading 
of Shilling is so good ns to make crit
icism ungracious, I shall feel far from 
cheated.
IIANIEL LONG.
Carnegie Techs influence is more 
and more weaving its strands into the 
commercial, industrial, artistic and 
social life of Pittsburgh. The mills 
co-operate with the College in indus
trial and scientific experiment and 
research; the engineering students 
use Pittsburgh as their laboratory; 
the College of Fine Arts gives an im
petus to the citys aesthetic interest. 
In athletics, Carnegie Tech finds 
Pittsburgh an enthusiastic supporter. 
These relations differ completely from 
the relation contemplated in Carnegie 
Techs newest projectone of the big
gest ever promoted here. The mutual 
concern of Pittsburgh in Carnegie 
Tech and of Carnegie Tech in Pitts
burgh, is the natural result of our 
collegiate activities being in such di
rect contact with the citys affairs. 
The Guild, aided by the Social Work 
Department, proposes to found in the 
Forward avenue slum district a Car
negie Tech College Settlement to be 
conducted by undergraduate students.
The community near Greenfield 
and Second avenues lies between two 
barren hills. Unpainted, toppling 
houses, awkwardly balance them
selves along the sides of the dirty, 
cluttered streets. Sometimes the sun 
does sift through the smoke that 
hangs over the Run. No play
grounds, community houses, nor even 
movies afford any sort of amusement 
and recreation for the people. If the 
attitude of the residents can be judged 
from the appreciative spirit of the 
young girls that are in the Margaret 
Morrison Social Work clubs, a com
munity house will find the people re
sponsive to its activities. And the 
district is not without some splendid 
facilities for a civic center. Nearby, 
is a new public school. Through the 
interest of the Pittsburgh Board of 
Education, we may be able to utilize 
its club rooms, cooking and sewing 
laboratories, swimming pool and gym
nasium. The principal of the school 
is willing to co-operate with us in any 
way possible. Down in the Run, 
though, a Settlement House must be 
established. It should contain a mod
el apartment, simply and cleanly fur
nished, a day nursery, a baby clinic, 
reading rooms, and a club room for 
the mothers. The plans for these 
things are by no means final. A com
mittee, investigating every side of 
the problem, will be able by the first 
of the year to make a com
plete report as to facilities, 
possibilities, and estimate the 
required budget. The old Mar
garet Morrison Guild by that time 
shall be reorganized as a four-school 
activity. Within two years the Col
lege Settlement can be founded by 
the undergraduate body.
The Social Work Department could 
superintend the organization and ad
ministration of the Community House 
and weld together the student educa
tional and recreational facilities for 
the settlement requirements. Every 
College has departments whose stu
dents can easily adapt their training 
to the needs of the Community House. 
For instance, the students of the De
partment of Household Economics 
could give classes in sewing and coolcFrom December 6 to January 12: 
Dr. Rittmans classes in Industrial 
Management will be given a series 
of lectures by members of the faculty 
of the Psychology Departftient. Thereare about a hundred and thirty Sen
iors in these classes. The general 
subject of the lectures will be the 
Human Factor in Management, 
and, as planned, this subject will be 
developed under three divisions: 
Problems of Personnel, Problems of 
Morale, and Problems of Marketing. 
The lecturers on Problems of Per
sonnel as tentatively arranged are 
as follows: December sixth, by W.
W. Charters; December eighth. C. S. 
Yoakum; December eleventh, L. L. 
Thurston; and December tnirteenth,. 
David Craig.
The lectures on December fifteenth 
and January i/nird, by J. S. Kier aud 
!C. J. Rockwell will be on Problems 
of Morale. Problems of Marketing 
will be taken up in four lectures: 
January fifth and eighth, E. K. 
Strong; January tenth, H. G. Kenagy; January twelfth, W. V. Bing
ham.
The lectures will be given in Room 
209, Science, at eight-thirty.
ing, and help with the baby clinic;, 
while the editorials and library stu
dents could supervise the manage: 
ment of the reading rooms. Singing, 
dancing and the production of little 
sketches and plays could be handled 
by the students of the College of Fine 
Arts. There is probably no depart
ment which cannot be of help.
DR. BAKER ATTENDS R. O. T. C.
MEETING IN BALTIMORE
Dr. Thomas S. Baker attended a: 
meeting of the R. O. T. C. Colleges 
of the Third Corps Area which was 
held in Baltimore on Friday, Decem
ber 1. The purpose of the meeting 
was to form an association.
| Start the |
I Week Right f
i IChureli on Sunday  
:j: puts new pep into Mon;j% dajr, Tuesday, Wednesdaytill Sunday comes  
again. Try it and see. ;i;
| Oakland Methodist f 
| Church 1
| FORBES AUD $ 
| BOQUET |
Fifty steps from the $ 
? campus v
H(s Bellefield Presbyterian | Church
Fifth and Bellefield Avenues. 
REV. ROBERT MacGOWAN,
D. D., Pastor.
Sabbath School ........ 9:45 A.M. i
College Mens Bible
Class ......................10:00 A.M. :
Preaching service ... 7:00P.M. : 
Christian Endeavor
Societies ................ 7:00 P.M. |
Preaching Service ... 8:00P.M. 
WELCOME! TECH STUDENTS :
PHYSICS COLLOQUIUM
On Friday, December S, reports of 
tho Chicago meeting of tho American 
Physical Society will be given. 
Prof. H. S. Iiower was tho represen
tative of the Physics Department at 
this Thanksgiving meeting of the 
society. All interested are cordially 
invited to attend the Physics Collo
quium in 113 Science at 4:30 p. m., 
Friday.
MW 1  * s
Tbefteclfljer'Building, New York City 
WUrrcn Sc Wetmore, Architects
ArchitectureToday and Tomorrow
T
HE great buildings of today, designed rcmasscs which ropr rug
ged, mounting profdes into the sky. foretell even grerffcr and 
more massive structures for die next half centuryAlways a cl&se co
ordination of architecture and engineering)of design and construc
tion, the architecture of the future will find architect and engineer 
working ever more closely together. f
Certainly modern inventionmodern engineering skill ^ondforganization, will prove more than equal to the demagijs of tlm^ffhitecture 
of the future.
OTIS ELEVATOR COMPANY
Offices in all Principal Cities of rhe Worli

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
SKIBO ELEVEN CLOSES 1922 
SEASON WITH FIVE VICTORIES 
ONE TIE AND THREE DEFEATS
On the Plaid ScreenAllegheny Mountain Association Champions
By H. H. WILSON
Tie With W. CBl, J. and Close Scores at 
Yale, Penn State, and Notre Dame 
Games, Indicate Growing Strength 
of Plaid on Gridiron
PASSING OUT
1922 football is a thing o tlie past as far as Carnegie Tech is concerned, j 
; and attention is now being turned to the basket ball prospects. However, | 
! the outlook for the 1923 gridiron season looms up, with persistent rumors in ; 
' regard to our next years schedule. If these rumors are worth anything, it 
; looks as though Carnegie Tech would have as hard a schedule as any team 
j in the country. The Freshman rule goes into effect next fall and Wally 
I Steffen is going to have a hard time of it, to build up a team which will 
I uphold past records. Although the Tartan backfield will be practically in: tact, the line will lose a number of its best men, and a baelcfield without a 
I good line cannot do much scoring. Recruits from the Freshman squad will 
j help build up the line, but still there is likely to be the same old trouble of 
: a lack of substitutes.
INTER-FRATERNITY BASKET BALL
The Inter-Fraternity Dormitory Basket Ball League is getting started 
and with last season in mind, it looks as though the competition this yearMANY INTURIES MAR SEASON j might be hotter than ever. Iota Sigma Delta was the winner of the trophy
J last yi
Three months before the final game of the season with Notre Dame, 
more {than fifty lads of promising football future found their way up the 
Allegheny to Camp Louise Carnegie.
The camp is an ideal training quarter, and the boys soon began to realize 
that there was a decided difference between the intensity of the work out
lined by Coach Wally Steffen and the jobs each fellow may have had during 
the summer until that time. At least every fellow of the fifty candidates for 
the squad wore off much of his superfluous weight by drilling on the soft 
pasture fields and running over the endless course that twined around and 
over the Freeport hills. Even the assistant coach, Bob Waddell, and the 
trainer, Bert Munhall, would not think of calling it a day until they had done 
their Walter Camps daily dozen.
With the few weeks feeding on fresh country air and food, the boys were 
in the proper physical condition to return to the newly sodded and drained 
Carnegie Tech field for further practice in signal work.
After one week of daily workouts and scrimmage, Wally Steffen had the 
squad reduced to a number that received more concentrated coaching. The 
schedule for the Skibo warriors opened on September 23rd with a victory
over Waynesburg College. Both the 
first and the second string men dis
played a class of ball that caused the 
coaches and the student body to feel 
very hopeful for the outcome of the 
nine games yet to be played*. Fumb
ling seemed to be the only bad fea
ture of the game, so the task of 
teaching the men to hold onto the 
pigskin was given considerable at
tention.
In order that the boys might be
come used to running on the green 
sod of the Yale bowl before the 
game with the Bull Dog on Septem
ber thirtieth, Graduate Manager 
Frank Haaren made arrangements 
for the team to arrive at New Hav
en two days in advance of the day 
of the game. When the whistle blew 
that opened hostilities, the Plaid felt
PLEASANT VOYAGE
Travelers find that our 
steamship service assures 
in great measure freedom 
from inconveniences 
which often times embar
rass those who may be 
unfamiliar with foreign 
conditions, money ex
change and credits.
Mellon National BankOliuer Jlue.& Srmthfield
i.
quite at home on Yales playground, 
and their manner of playing was not 
that which was witnessed by New 
Haven rooters two seasons previous.
The heavy new England team 
scored its only touchdown in the 
first half of the game, and OHearns 
toe netted the six additional points. 
Fumbles by the light but fast Carne
gie team paved the way for Yales 
lone touchdown.
Geneva College sent a team to 
Pittsburgh to play the Tartan ma
chine to a standstill. Needless to 
say they were anticipating, beyond 
doubt. The Geneva gridders display
ed a bright offensive and twice 
threatened the Plaid goal line after 
having scored on a 60-yard run from 
a fumble made by one of the Carne
gie backs.
On October 14 the Skibos made 
clear their intentions to do justice 
towards upsetting the defeat of last 
year. The majority of the student 
body found their way to Little 
Washington and their presence was 
well advertised by parading and or
ganized cheering. W. and J. did 
not earn a tie with the hard fighting 
Tartan machine for the game tech
nically and morally belonged to the 
invaders. The Carnegie boys scored 
early in the game while Greasy 
Neale's bit of luck came in the last 
few minutes of the game.
The next two games netted a total 
of eiglity-seven points for the Plaid 
team. Thiel College was easy pick
ing but Grove City put up a stubborn 
 defensive and Wallys boys scored 
only one touchdown each period.
Up to this time the prospects for
last year and will no doubt make a strong bid to annex it again this year. 
However, some of the other teams are considerably strengthened and every 
game will be well worth watching.
GOOD WORK, PITT
We saw that game last Thursday at Forbes Field when the Panther 
decisively outfought the Nittany Lion to the tune of 1-1-0. Pitt surely has 
staged a strong comeback after their poor showing at the beginning of the 
season. The Blue and Gold should give the Leland Stanford eleven a tough 
battle out on the coast on December 30.
Right here we want to compliment Pitt on her fine showing of spirit. 
It surely was a surprise. The co-eds over in the grandstand made plenty 
of noise and co-operated in good style with the mens section. Of course 
Pitt was warmed up over tlie victory and we cant say how their spirit would 
be under the gloom of defeat. Their band looked fine in the new outfits, 
although they cant compare with the kilties. We noticed that they sang 
their Alma Mater and didnt just stand with bared heads and listen to the 
band play the tune as is so often the case when our own is played. "Come 
on Carnegie, lets go, dont let our traditional spirit be over shadowed. 
When that new song book comes out, learn the words of the Alma Mater 
and be ready to sing them whenever the occasion offers.
FAREWELL, COLONEL
Colonel Brooks, who has coached Plaid tennis teams for a number of 
years, is leaving for the west to take over an assignment to a new post. 
He has had great success with Carnegie tennis teams, putting out four of 
championship caliber. A farewell party is being tendered him at which 
everyone will have an opportunity to honor him and wish him good luck 
in his new undertaking.
regulars were in the best physical 
condition, and no one expected that 
a team like he one Allegheny Col
lege had been used to sending to 
Pittsburgh, would break down the 
foundations of a team that was de
termined to be recognized among the 
class A of football. A slight relax 
against an eleven of surprising 
weight and ability broke down the 
entire Tartan line and crippled two 
of its backfield men. With the Penn 
State game only one week off and 
about half the Carnegie players on 
the injured list, what was to be ex
pected at State College on Armistice 
day?
Red Godden, captain of the team 
in 1920, suffered a broken leg in the 
Allegheny College game and his loss 
to the team was a big factor in the 
following defeats.
All aboard for Penn State. The 
special carried more than seven hun
dred rooters, while the highways 
were crowded with enthusiasts and 
supporters of both the teams that 
were scheduled to battle at Beaver 
Field,, State College, on Pennsylvania 
Day, the biggest day of the year for 
the Nittany Valley boys. A crowd 
of seventeen thousand spectators wit
nessed the hard fought game. It was
TARTANS TO TACKLE 
CHICAGO NEXT YEAR
Western Conference Team to 
Be Met at Stagg Field 
On October 13
CARNEGIE CROSS-COUNTRY TEAM 
From left to rightManager Lucas, Tubbs, McKelvic, Dykeman, Captain Greenlaw, Sampson, Bright, Ferrall, Men
denhall, Coach Beeler.
Col. Brooks Honored 
By Farewell Smoker
Past Four Years' Team Men 
Pay Tribute to Coach
Dykeman Outstanding Star 
Finishes First in Three Out 
of Five MeetsWill Run 
Again Next Year
DYKEMAN 1923 CAPT
for the boys in crimson. All of the |
Flowers for Every Occasion
Gift Boxes 
Corsages 
Plants 
Decorations
Tech students will find that our prices are in keeping with the 
quality and service.
A. W. Smith Co.
LIBERTY AT SIXTH AVE. PENN AT STANWIX ST.
Phone Smithfield 327.
Delivery anywhere in United States or Canada.
, . , .very apparent that the Plaid had not 
auccMEtul ^ seggon looked brlghll^MiaettUy recovered from the 
HGG bruises and injuries received in the
game of the previous week. The 
plucky Tartan lads gave the Lion a 
much harder battle than they ever 
dreamed of, and a score of one touch
down and a field goal did not tell 
the comparativo strength of the 
teams.
It was found necessary to cancel 
the Stl Bonaventure game in order to recuperate for the final game 
with Notre Dame.
The Indiana Irish met the Scotch 
from Carnegie at Forbes Field on 
November 25. The Carnegie student
Aufhammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE***
If You Are Not Going Home Thanksgiving
We Are Serving A Real Old Fashioned. Turkey 
Dinner
All the fixius Home Cooked
Franks Restaurant
4527 FORBES
Out of the maze of rumors and re
ports floating about the campus con
cerning the makeup of next seasons 
football schedule comes the definite 
announcement that the University of 
Chicago will be met on Stagg Field 
at Chicago on October 13. This 
game is of peculiar interest as on 
that day pupil will be matched 
against mentor, for Coach Wally 
Steffen received his football train
ing at the hands or Coach Alonzo 
Stagg of Chicago in the days when 
the football world was agog with the 
"Steffen Shift, and Wally was 
named quarterback on the mythical 
All-American aggregation. .
Both Princeton and Chicago had 
been dickering with Graduate Man
ager Frang ITaaren for that date, 
open on the schedules of both teams 
duo to the. termination of the twoyear contract existing between thorn, 
but the announcement that Chicago 
received the game probably elimin
ates the Eastern school for the next 
season.
Other games on the Tartan sched
ule definitely booked to date are the 
Notre Dame and Pitt games, the for
mer at Forbes Field the Saturday 
preceding Thanksgiving, and the lat
ter on October 29, as previously .an
nounced. Yale will not be met next 
season, as a date later In the sea
son cannot be arranged, and the early
season game proved unsatisfactory 
j^iSeiS^^d'WSrSSith^i; to. the Tale football autliorltles, ow 
Knute Rochnes dashing men, but
Wally Steffen was fully aware that 
his light eleven would be facing an 
entirely different team from any of 
tho three previous teams encounter
ed. All through the game the super
ior quality of football was demon
strated, and the final score came 
close to telling how well the two 
teams matched against each other.
This season was crowded with all
ing probably to the fact that the 
Tartan proves to be quite a tough 
morsel for any team to digest, 
whether early in the season or late.
Last night at the Woodlawn Club, 
the tennis teams, managers, and 
squads of the past four years honored 
their coach, Colonel John C. W. 
Brooks, with a smoker. The affair 
was in the nature of a fare-well to 
the Colonel; a get-together of all men 
who have played tennis for Carnegie 
Tech under the tutelage of Colonel 
Brooks.
The great popularity of tho coach | 
was manifest In the enthusiasm of the 
large gathering. As a fitting close 
to his successful career of producing 
four Tri-State Championship teams at 
Carnegie, "Connie' Schwartz,, cap
tain-elect for 1923, presented for mem
bers of tho squads for tho past four 
years to the Colonel, a largo loving 
cup, emblematic of their esteem for 
him. Also as a small show of appre
ciation for tho great services rendered 
gratis, tho Athletic Association, 
through Graduate Manager Haaren, 
presented him with a traveling bag. 
Mr. I-Iaaran, in his presentation 
speech stated that this gift could not. 
even begin to pay tho Colonel for Ills 
valuable sorvlcos, and was thoroforo 
only in tho nature of an apprecia
tion.
"Chuck Garland, tho now coach, 
was present and among others were 
recognized .Tack Boatty, captain of 
tho 3919 team; Steve Stookslagor, cap
tain in 1920; "Toots Davis, 1918 cap
tain; John Harknoss, captain In 1921; 
and "Connie 'Schwartz, captaln-eloct 
for 1923. Managors HIrseh and Pitts, 
respectively managors in 1920 and 
1921, wero also present. Captain 
Neville of tho 1922 team was missed 
very much, ho having moved to Cali
fornia.
Gawthrop, Copley, Schmortz, Kell, 
Simpson, Stnlilman, Phil Marshall. 
Bowron, Kemory, iS. Smith, Iflvorhnrd, 
Rhodes, OConner,-Van Atta, Hairnr, 
"Rog Marshall, as well as "Pete 
Ivrelstlo, manager-olocl; of tho 1923 
team, and Ferguson, Sonnoman, Rog
ers, Jones, assistant managers, were 
present helping to swell the crowd.
Refreshments in the way of sand
wiches and coffee plus smokes put the 
end to a jolly gathering.
DR. LANGMUIR LECTURES
ON ELECTRICITY
(Continuedfrom Page One) 
with cathode materials that have even 
much greater emissions.
"In order to get all the current that
sorts of tough luck, but nevertheless
PROMINENT MEN
TALK AT ASSEMBLY! a cathode is capable of giving, it is
-------- i necessary tn apply to the anode a high
(Continued from Page One)  enough voltage to overcome what is 
derstauding him. He told the -stu*- known as the space charge effect. By 
dents of his interest in the youths I Putting in gases positive ions are 
of both nations, how he wished to ! forced in the space between the elecmake each understand the other, j trodes, and these neutralize the negaAlong this line he told of sprne of j ^ve space chaige and allow tho curths actions of his two sons who are! rer,t from the cathode to pass across 
American-born, and also introduced! ^ie 3Pace with much lower anode volta Japanese Princess to the assem-j a&es*n other words, the effect of 
b!y. The Princess is in tlie United i Sases is to increase the current-carry, 0: States as a ward of Judge Buffing-! ing capacity of the two. Such an 
p ton, learning our customs and ideas. I ?ect *s UBe(i *n the tungar rectifier. 
n i Mr. Okomoto advises every Japanese i Care must be taken what gas is used 
71 young woman to visit America be-1 for'tIle Purpose, for many gases have 
fore marriage as he says that Amer-i the effect oE Poisoning the cathode,
Do Your Xips Shopping
,>U .,
W.
it was a very successful season even 
though the majority of the games 
were in the balance.
The results of the 1922 football 
games were as follows:
Carnegie Tech..54Waynesburg .. 0j
Carnegie Tech.. 0Yale ............
Carnegie Tech. .27Geneva -----
Carnegie Tech.. 7W. and J..
Carnegie Tech..59Theil ................ ,0j
Carnegie Tech. .28Grove City___ ijca j
Ipi I pl^gheaf <L' in! JaPan a mans country with worn-1 value*
 ens views-of We value. He then I H very high UR tages are used on
Carnegie Tech.. 0-!sotre Dame...19 ^ ,oncernl the trias reiations   proia lntens,e
of the two countries, told some remle 00 n0 .at'ls p?"Bi lle t0 pu"nlscences of the Washington confer"tectrons of the cathode. In fact, 
ence, and then gave his opinion ot |'t is possible to pull electrons even
the much discussed possible war be-: t ot1Ico,rt lodes, that is cathodes
tween Japan and America. According at temperatures. The cur-r _____. ... rents obtained this way from theto Mr. Okomoto, war is impossible ,. , . .T ,, - , J cathode come from very minute areas,Japan can not get along without ... ... . , 1. .  .... but In these areas the current den, ' . 1 y   H slty amounts to more than one bun-gaged in tho silk iuflustrjr wh ch: ^ c
sends almost tho entire production!
to the United States. Japan he SQpH pLEUE 8M0KER
claimed, is tco small and weak to
j MID-WESTERNERS CELEBRATE 
i THANKSGIVING WITH BANQUET
womans country while aml ,,cutt,inB ,Iown lts emission to a
j (Continued from Page One)
.. j j-i^fion of the meeting was directed ' 'the subject of a distinctive badge 
the members of tho organization. 
,1 designs for pins were sub
mitted and of these three were seGRIDIRON STARS TRY 
FOR SKIBO CAGL: TEAM
ygjjflQUrr'
DAVI111
UGHES
f-:-
36SgF
, Tieng XCJJ. JSiVE
r l?ce>r^i&Trs Store[OWS. j yi
Evening
iv No' i''
.motto, ext to Strand Theater
. antef *
journal, to the roof garden.
A table on the roof garden was securedi and the rest of the evening 
vas,spent in dancing.
Ti liacl been expected that several 
member of the faculty would be pres
ent, but owing to various causes none 
wQce 'present.
: ,'Thu tnext meeting of the Assoclat&nig he,,l ield on next Sunday, Deceinbei nintftA Watch the bulletin 
Announcement of time 
sure and be there.
Tlie Carnegie Tech harriers have 
completed another season of hill and 
dale running which, in spite of some 
defeats, may be considered a suc
cess. Probably the high spot of tho 
season was the winning of the Alle
gheny Mountain Association Cham
pionship with Pitt second, which in1
 cldently reopened our athletic rela
tions with out neighbors. Dykemans record at tho Syracuse Invita
tion meot and at the Intercollegiate 
is another outstanding feature.
The season opened on October 21, 
when the squad journeyed to Cin
cinnati where It defeated tho Uni
versity ol' Cincinnati runners to tho 
tune' of 19 to 30. Five of the first 
six men to cross tho lino wore Car
negie runners, Dykeman taking first 
place. Then followed the Syracuse 
Invitation moot at Syracuse on No
vember 4. Dykeman again ropipod 
away with first place beating out 
Columbias crack distance man, H.lg* 
gins. Tho team however did not 
show up quite MR good, finishing In 
fifth placo In a field of six teams. 
At Strite on tho day of tho Penn 
State-Carnegle football game, tho 
Tartan runners suffered a setback at 
the hands of Bill Martin's harriers. 
Although Dykonnin again finished 
first, the dual reckoning showed that 
State had won by tho sooro of 23 
to 32.
On Novombor 18, the annual Senior 
A. M. A. Championships wore con
ducted undor tho auspices of Carno* 
glo Tech over the Sclionloy Park 
course. This time Oarneglo Tech 
was victorious, amassing 2(1 points, 
with Pitt second with '12 points and 
tho Plaid reserve team third with 87 
points. _ Earl Johnson ol! Ildgar 
Thompson Steel took tho Individual 
honors with Dykeman dose on his 
bools. At the Intorcolloglates In 
Now York on November 27, Dyke
man look fourth placo and Fermi 
eighteenth out of a field of one hun
dred and twenty-five runners. There 
wore only tho two men entered for 
Carnegie but their showing was vory 
creditable considering that they wore 
up against some of tho bost college 
runners in tho cast.
Howard Dykeman was tho outstand
ing star of the season finishing first 
In three out of five starts, lie has 
proven himself to be one of tho best 
distance runners In tho east and with 
still' another season before him 
should make a strong bid for Inter
collegiate individual honors next fall. 
Incidentally he is captain-elect of tho 
1923 Plaid cross-country team which 
means that the squad will have a 
most capable leader. Captain Green
law, of this years team, was handi
capped all season by stomach trou
ble which kept him from making a 
favorable showing. Nevertheless lie 
kept up the spirit of the team and 
made a very popular leader. Ferrall 
who came out late In the season 
showed exceptional form and ran in 
the last three meets finishing well 
up in the front. Tubbs and Menden
hall also showed improvement over 
last year and scored for the Plaid 
In nearly every meet. McKelvie was 
another man who developed rapidly 
and made a most favorable showing 
in several of the meets. Sampson, 
Bright and Hinderpr also deserve 
mention for their good work on the 
squad.
A number of tho men will bo lost 
by graduation next spring, but tho 
old men, with the second string ma
terial which gives promise of devel
opment, should form a first class out
fit for 1923.
'Coach Paul Beeler, although hand
icapped by his work with tho Plobo 
football team, developed the loam In
to a worthy opponent for any hill 
and dale squad. Manager Lucas 
with his first assistants, Wilson and 
Hollingsworth, and assistants Proctor, 
Colvin, Lawrence, Moyer, J3odron and
* Ou/itnil li'id mrwlii I Iw. ,1
With the close of tho football 
season, lovors cf college sport turn 
their attentions to basket ball. A 
good array of talent has turned out 
at first call for basket ball caiulldatoB. 
Tho football team turned looso a 
wealth or material in Don Potter, stnr 
guard of last year, Ohio Newman, an
other letter man, Weirman, and Mefort, who look very good.
Available from last year varsity, 
are Captain Dosey, Captain Gibson, 
Captain Bell, Gallngor and Parker. 
Last years Freshman team will fur
nish Brooks, guard, and forwards Mur
ray and Matter.
Tho Plaid will lmvo a splendid 
yearling team. too. There are a pleas
ing number of now men: Big, fast
men, fino shots, who know how to 
handle thomsolves. A great strugglo 
for positions on tho Plobo team In 
easily forosoen.
Leading Eastern Colleges 
On Rifle Club Schedule
The Carnogle Rlllo Club will hold 
Its firjt mooting of tho your Wednes
day, Docombor (!, at 8:00 p. m.,Mn 
Room (10 Solonco Building and oloctlon of olllcora for tills year will bo 
hold.
New niombers will bo rocolvod into 
tho club at this mooting.
Candidates for tho rlllo team will 
bo given tryouts next week for the 
matchos to bo shot with other col
leges soon after tho Christmas vaca
tion.
A schedule Is now In tho making, 
and negotiations for inatohou aro bo* 
Ing made with Harvard, Johns Hop
kins, Unlvorslty of Pittsburgh, Col
gate, Yale, Ohio State University, Cor
nell, and Columbia, with a possible 
addition of two or throe more strong 
teams.
CROSS-COUNTRY MEN TURN
IN EQUIPMENT BY DECEMBER 7
All Cross-country oqulpmont must 
bo turned In by noxt.Thurosday, at (1 p. 
ni. Tho material will bo received 
between tho hours of -I p. m. and 
(> p. m., or, If turned In at any other 
time, may bo left with Bert Munhall, 
accompanied by a no to Indicating tho 
personas name and a list of the ar
ticles.
Student? desiring to aelcct attrac 
tlvo Chrlatmao Groctlnrj Cardo, with or 
without name imprinted, Gift Novel
ties, Pcncila and guaranteed nafety 
Fountain Pens, should go to Singer 
Pen and Gift Shop in Jenkins Arcade. 
Advertlsoinent.
SAY
You Students of Econom
icsDo you want to earn 
some easy Holiday money? 
Do you have any spare 
time? If so, phono Smith
field 1602 for appoint
ment9 to 12 a. m. or 2 
to D p. m.
Batteries Recharged &. Repaired 
ACORN STORAGE BATTERY 
Company 
4521 FORBES STREET 
(Near Craig)
Phone 3chenley 4545.
SOPH
.____, . , ^ THIS FRIDAY NIGHTI leeted for the committee in charge | Sht, Ameiica Is too large, stiong, _______
j to'get information as to the expense iin(1 rich lo fight. Mr. Okomoto has | (Continued From Pago One.)
I and manner of converting these deJ written nine books which he has sold j Tj,Ih ff on(j Qf , J)0 f,mC(;jom) u,nf
signs.-.for suitable pins. At the con-1 <>> Japan and China tor the purpose I ovory So|ollco plobo should attend,
pluijion of this business the party adof promoting friendship between the atl(jf aa an added Incentive JOddy fillUnited States and the Orient. In, l)0rt ha anlIOum;od that regulations 7.......... "S."1'" ' 11,1,1
his talk he described some or the wU1 be BU8pen<Ied tor tho evening Owoml ,hl 'm' ho. se,"on a m0Btideas ho had in mind and offered to Bvery Ploba from sd(mc0 sllould b0 I -nceMBltil ouo and uenorra. lots of
send copies to interested students. thoro ln order that he may moot the 
Mr. Okomoto s speech was given a i inen 0j> ^jje Sophomore class and learn 
great deal of applause and the visi-j ulc afmH an(i ambltlons of that august 
tors seemed very much pleased with j body.
the cheers given them led by Cheer-1 The affair is In charge of tho social
leader Olsen. j committee of the Sophomore class,
Because of the lack of . time the which is composed of H. N. Smith, 
meeting was adjourned immediately j chairman; L. H. Harris, M. D. Heer, 
after the reading of the announce-A. Stigler, J. B. Whitman and D. A. 
dents by the president, A1 Irwin. Gardner.
credit.
If I should kiss you, would it bo 
petty larceny?
No, it would bo rand.-The Tech
nique, Georgia Tech.
C. M. Stauft
3901 FORBES STREET
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENS

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, DECEMBER 6, 1922
ALUMNI PAGE
CLAN NEWSIs Your Name On the 
Kilts Fund List?
Clans Urged to A\eet Students 
During Christmas VacationAlumnae Take Part 
in Guild Carnival
WASHINGTON, D. C. CLAN MEETS 
TO PLAN CHRISTMAS PARTY
The Washington Clan met on Mon
day evening, November 27th, at the 
home of Carl Zobel with an attend
ance of fourteen. The following new 
members were present: MarsBald
win, Ruth Gubtil, and Marjorie Northrup.
A short business session was held 
at which the work of the past year 
was reviewed and a report of the 
Philadelphia meeting given by Bill 
Norman. The result of the election 
of officers was as follows: Carl Zobel,
president; Kathryne Harris, vice pres
ident: Herbert W. Haller, secretarytreasurer; William Norman, H. R. 
Little, members of executive commit
tee.
The clan was fortunate in having 
for a guest Buddy Overend, who 
gave some especially interesting in
formation about Techpresent and 
future.
Plans for the coming year were dis
cussed and especially the Christ
mas Party, which is being planned, for 
Thursday evening, December 21st. 
The clan hopes to have as its guests 
all the present Tech students, or for
mer students who will be in Wash
ington at that time, and the secretary 
would appreciate a card advising him 
of their presence. He may be reached 
at 1103 Munsey Building, Washington, 
D. C.
. After the business meeting the clan 
partook of some very tasty refresh
ments.
NEW BUFFALO CLAN HOLDS
ORGANIZATION MEETING
On November 24 the Buffalo Clan 
held an organization meeting which 
had been postponed from November 
17.
An election of officers resulted as 
follows: President, B. A. Lutton; vice 
president, Robert Porter;, secretarytreasurer, Wm. S. Bennett.
A voluntary contribution was made 
by members present to be sent to the 
Kiltie Fund.
There will be regular meetings of 
the Clan on the third Friday of each 
month and any Techites visiting in 
tho Buffalo district are cordially in
vited to join in the meetings. You 
may reach the secretary, W. S. Ben
nett, at 722 Prospect-avenue.
A* committee is at present working 
out plans for a gathering to be held 
during the Holiday Season, the na
ture and place to be announced later. 
It is hoped that all graduates and un
dergraduates who expect to be in the 
vicinity will he present at this gather
ing and become acquainted with the 
people and the activities of the clan.
The next meeting will be held on 
December 15, at 75 Niagara Square.
PITTSBURGH CLAN TO HOLD
LUNCHEON AT FORT PITT
Now that the football season is 
over, the Pittsburgh Clan is able to 
divert''its attention and enthusiasm to 
affairs of a more highly social charac
ter. The next event on the schedule 
will be a Clan luncheon and meeting 
at the Fort Pitt Hotel, December 16, 
at 12:30 p. m .
The guests of honor will include 
Dr. T. S. Baker, acting president, and 
Prof. Henry Hornbostel. The names 
of the other speakers will be an
nounced later. Professor Hornbostel 
will tell us about the plans and pro
posed layout of the new gymnasium.
As this will probably be the last so
cial event on the Pittsburgh Clan cal
endar in 1922, a large turnout is ex
pected, and by large turnout we mean 
not fewer than two hundred and fifty.
In order that we may know that 
you are coming, say it with a postal 
card addressed to A. J. Hynd, Alumni 
Office, Carnegie Tech.
We hope that all visiting alumni 
will make a. special effort to be with 
us.
Alumni Support is Below 
Expectations
DAYTON CLAN TO HOLD
DINNER PARTY THURSDAY
The Dayton Clan is organizing a 
membership campaign to take in all 
the towns in the vicinity.
On Thursday evening, December 
7th, the Clan will hold a dinner party 
at the Dayton Engineers Club. The 
entertainment will include dancing 
and cards. A good turnout is expect
ed.
All visitors are urged to get in 
touch with F. W. Heckert, 1 Stratford 
avenue, Dayton, Ohio.
PHILADELPHIA CLAN DISCUSSES 
SUBSCRIPTION TO KILTS FUND
On Monday evening, November 27, 
the executive committee of the Phil
adelphia Clan met in the committee 
room of the Philadelphia Chamber of 
Commerce. Those present were: W. 
R. Miller, L. E. Exline, P. W. Schmidt, 
J. P. Bailey, P. W. Emmel, and Miss 
Marion L. Bach.
A subscription to the fund to pay 
for the kilties recently purchased by 
the Tech band was discussed, and 
plans were made for the regular 
monthly meeting at the Amulia at (i 
oclock, Saturday evening, December 
2nd.
Senior Fence to Extend From 
Science to Central Building
Plans for the Senior Fence have 
ibeen completed and the Student 
Council has made an appropriation 
for its construction. The final step 
will be seeking the approval of the 
school authorities.
The fence will be a three rail bar
rier extending from the entrance of 
Science Building to the Administra
tion Building. The process of erec
tion: is a mystery. It may be as
sembled in sections behind closed 
doors of Bill Pfouts pattern shop 
and set in place some moonless night, 
or building operations may be con
cealed by canvas and the finished 
structure unveiled at an appropriate 
time.
Other schools have their Senior 
Fences. We should have ours. Vis
itors at Carnegie from other schools 
probably think the railing in front 
of Science Building is a Senior 
fence. This illusion will be correct
ed when the real one is in use.
PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
Solves Social Function Glotlies Question. 
Any Style. All Occasions.
Complete Renting Outfitters 
Head to Foot.
Any Size. All Accessories.
Largest Stock between New York and 
Chicago.
6002 Jenkins Arcade Pittsburgh
Phone Smithfield 341
m
EBm
m
ma
sim
m
n
m
m
msa
Why Young Men Should 
Consider Insurance Selling
Seven Reasons for Life Insurance Career
LlFE INSURANCE is founded on the 
highest ideals.
It is capable of yielding a good income and the 
satisfaction of accomplishment.
It offers opportunities for real leadership.
It brings insurance salesmen in close associa
tion with big business and big business men.
It requires education in business methods, 
law and finance.
It is a field for workers, not shirkers.
It is an alluring and practical calling for men 
of dynamic energy.
m
m
usm
m
m
m
m
Sometime ago we set our hearts 
on getting kilts for the band. We 
have now gained our objective and 
are proud of it. But, just as every 
victory must be made secure in one 
way or another, this one must be 
given the whole-hearted support of 
the persons affected.
The students have done very well 
in helping to establish this as a step 
forward in the history of Carnegie 
Tech and should be given a great deal 
of cred t. But, to date, the support 
given by the alumni has been far be
low what it should be and what was 
expected.
The kiltie fund campaign is still 
on and will be oil until the full amount 
has been obtained. Do your part and 
get your name on the list below.
0. E. Brenot, Mrs. Geo. R.- King,
0. E. Bee, F. A. Lind, John D. Spald
ing, E. G. Peterson, Paul F. Mauer, 
Geo. E. Smith, I-I. R. Auerswald, Mrs.
1. I. I-Iarnack, Hugh Brady, Homer 
Sinclair, L. I-I. Lee, G. L. Tilbrook, 
L. T. Kelly, W. H. Ritts, Bessie Finkelhor, M. R. Walton, Miss A. I-Iibbs, 
Iv. H. B. Julian, F. Miller, J. M. Orr, 
A. J. Hynd, Gertrude Baton, Alathea 
I. Burch, T. C. Kindle, David R. Reid, 
E. F. Lundeen, E. P. Poste, H. S. Texter, Harold P. Greenwald, Edger F. 
Obert, E. J. I-Iedlund, A. M. Cooper, 
W. I-I. Bennett, Charles L. Yost, Helen 
Lewis, Grace Little Haushalter, James 
J. Haushalter, John Kentlein, E. A. 
Graham. Carl Reid, Chas. W. Gibbs, 
G. W. Todd, Golda M. Haninger, Wal
ter N. Flanaganf E. Gray Merrill, Buf
falo Clan.
IGLD CAT7NHAVD SRY,HA9j
or Boston. Massachusetts
JINGLE BELL INN
FEATURES GUILD BAZAAR
Continued From Page One) 
dancing will be the rule; at least, you 
are assured of finding a partner if 
you have not one already engaged. 
Martha Zimmerman will occupy the 
role of hostess in the "Shanty and 
endeavor to see that everybody has a 
partner. Dancing will begin at 9:00 
P. M., with music by the famous 
Black Imps, who also have several 
suprises in store.
For those of our friends who pos
sess a sweet tooth, the girls have pro
vided candies, popcorn, pastries and 
other products of the culinary art. 
Girls in charge of Anne Stewart and 
Elizabeth Lewis may be found serv
ing the food from "Jingle Bell Inn 
and Kris Kingle Shanty.
No doubt many of the patrons would 
appreciate some light drama or stunts. 
This has been provided for, and will 
be found in the Faculty Club Rooms. 
No one can afford to miss these "Rein
deer Follies for any number of good 
stunts and one-act plays have been 
obtained. Besides the Alumni stunt, 
there will be a headliner by; the 
Drama Department, while the Marga
ret Morrison and Arts girls will unite 
on an unusuaHy clever stunt. There 
will be many others, too numerous to 
mention here. Dot Chalmers will ho 
in charge of the "Reindeer Foil lea" 
as hostess.
The decorations will bo. carried out 
in carnival fashion, at the same time 
suggesting the Yuletide spirit. Girls 
from both schools are working like 
members of Arts Ball Committees in 
preparation for the festival. Char
lotte Schuman will direct the exterior 
decorations for "Jingle Bell Inn 
while Elenore Scliomberg holds re
sponsibility for the interior finishing. 
Mary iSpeers will assume charge of 
the Reindeer Follies and Kiis Kin
gle Shanty decorations.
Lillian Coleman, president of the 
Girls Guild, acting in the capacity of 
general chairman has worked hard 
towards making the event a success. 
Other officers of the organization are 
Anne Weber, vice president; Martlia 
Zimmerman, secretary, and Geraldine. 
Kelly, publicity manager.
Tickets, which have been on sale 
since Monday, will admit each person 
to all attractions, the Inn, Shanty, 
Follies and any moi^e that may be 
found. Tickets are selling for seventy-five cents and may be obtained 
from Mary Heilig at the Margaret 
Morrison school.
The patrons and patronesses for 
the affair wall include all heads, of de
partments and are as follows:
College of EngineeringDean and 
Mrs. Mott, Dr. and Mrs. J. H. James, 
Dr. and Mrs. F. M. McCullough, Dr. 
and Mrs. W. F. Rittman, Dr and Mrs. 
C. W. Sproull, Dr. and Mrs. Willibald 
Trinks, Dr. and Mrs. W. R. Work, 
Dr. and Mrs. N. C. Riggs, Dr. and Mrs. 
Fred Crabtree, Dr. and Mrs. H. S. 
Hower.
College of IndustriesDean and 
Mrs. Jno. T. Morris, Dr. and Mrs. C. 
G. Dunnels, Dr. and Mrs. Robert B. 
Leighou, Dr. and Mrs. C. C. Leeds, Dr. 
and Mrs. Jno. T. Hoyle.
College of Fine ArtsDean and 
Mrs. Bossange, Dr. and Mrs. Ellis, 
Dr. and Mrs. Sternfeld, Mr. and Mrs. 
T. W. Stevens, J. Vick OBrien, 
Charles J. Taylor, Mr. and Mrs. Berthold Nebel.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Col
legeMiss Mary B. Breed, Miss Jane 
Fales, Miss Harriet F. Glendon, Dr 
and Mrs. Charles Watkins, Mr. and 
Mrs. Ernest V. Page, Miss Genevieve 
Fisher.
Division of General StudiesCol, 
and Mrs. Frank P. Day, Miss Elizabeth 
B. Demarest, Dr. and Mrs. Malcolm 
McLeod, Dr. and Mrs. Jno. S. Keir, 8. 
S. Keller, Mr. and Mrs. Frederic P. 
Colette, Dr. and Mrs. Edmond Esquerre.
Division of Co-operative Research 
Dr. and Mrs. W. V. Bingham, Mr. and 
Mrs. Clarence S. Yoakum, Dr. and
 Clans! The Buffalo Clan has the 
right idea. You, too, may have cook
ed up something of this nature, but 
what do you think of this for a sug
gestion:
Hold a meeting with some kind of 
an entertainment during the Christ
mas holidays, and urge the students 
who expect to be in town to be pres
ent and become acquainted with you 
and your work.
For the most part the students 
know very little about the clans, and 
do not realize the benefit they would 
derive from being associated with 
you.
They will have plenty of time on 
their hands and would enjoy meeting 
you. It is up to you to arouse the 
inclination.
In another place in this issue you 
will find an appeal to the students. 
We hope this will result in a very en
joyable meeting.
Bill Says:
Annual Christmas Celebration 
Next Saturday Nite
Faculty Notes
Miss Esther Gatewood, who was 
interested in Music Research at Car
negie Tech several years ago visited 
the Psychology Department last 
week. Miss Gatewood is now with 
the Victor Company.
Wm. It. Wertz was given a grant 
of fifty dollars by the Research Com
mittee to carry out research work 
on the comparison of aluminum and 
copper conductors.
The schedules for next semester 
have been drawn up and will soon 
be ready for blue printing.
Colonel and Mrs. Day and Miss 
Breed will entertain the faculties of 
general studies and the Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College at the 
Twentieth Century Club the evening 
of' December S.
The staff of the Carnegie Technical 
Journal wish to announce that the 
Journal will be sent free of charge to 
all members of the Engineering and 
Industries faculties and to such oth
ers who had subscriptions last year. 
Any other faculty members desiring 
the Journal will please send name 
and address to Box 183, C. I. T. post 
office.
Professor McIntosh has been invit
ed to speak on December 7th before 
the annual meeting of tho American 
Petroleum Institute at St. IR7CM8 Tho 
call to Professor McIntosh is the re
sult of resarch work conducted in the 
Department of Mining and Metalltiry 
on certain products usod extensively 
in the petroleum industry. The sub
ject of his address will be "Applica
tion of Metallurgical Research to tho 
Petroleum Industry.
HUNDRED COUPLES ATTEND
NEWMAN.CLUB DANCE
Last Friday evening the Newman 
Cluib held a dance at its quarters on 
Fifth avenuo in honor of tlie repre
sentatives to tho convention of the 
Pittsburgh Province of the Federa
tion of College Catholic Clubs. Mr. 
and Mrs. Frank J. Lanahan were 
patrons. Over a liundrod couples at
tended and had the times of -their 
lives. Tlie ballroom was appropri
ately decorated and no doubt the af
fair served to cement the friendship 
between the College Catholic Clubs 
of the district.
LIFE INSURANCE
BUREAU TO MOVE
The Life Insurance Bureau of the 
Division of Personnel Research will 
be moved after January 1 to its new 
offices in New York City. This bureau 
is carrying on co-operative work for 
thirty-seven large life insurance com
panies of the United States. Schemes 
for educating and selecting salesmen 
for the various companies are -worked 
out in a systematic way, and service 
bulletins giving surveys of procedure 
of the various companies are sent out 
from time to time. J. M. Holcombe is 
head of this department and Dr. C. 
F. Hanson is assistant. After Jan
uary 1, only one man of the bureau 
will be stationed at Carnegie Tech re
take care of the experimental work 
being carried on at the school.
FROM THE BLACK AND MAGENTA
Steward on steamship: "Your
lunch will be up soon, sir. 
Passenger: Yes, so will my break
fast.
Traffic Cop: Hey, you! Didnt
you hear me yelling for you to stop? 
Auto Fiend: Oh, was that you
yelling? I thought that was some
body I had run over.
Mrs. W. W. Charters, Dr. and Mrs. 
A. J. Wurts, Mr. and Mrs. E. K. 
Strong, Jr., Dr. and Mrs. Charles J. 
Rockwell, Dr. and Mrs. R. M. Ihrig. 
Hosts and Hostesses.
Alumni HostessesMiss Mary Wil
liams, Miss Mary Bechtel, Miss 
Keefer, Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Fetko, 
Miss Mildred Leech, Miss Lawton, 
Miss Elizabeth Lawrle.
Faculty HostessesMiss Bonnell, 
Miss Bowman, Miss Davidson, Miss 
Glendon, Miss Hewitt, Mrs. Phllput, 
Miss Letltla Sleman, Mrs. Spencer, 
Miss Spurrier, Mrs. Vermorcken, Misa 
Weber, Miss Winchester.
Faculty HostsDr. and Mrs. Gott, 
Mr. and Mrs. Long, Dr. and Mrs. 
Tschan, Mr. Huus, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. 
Kirkpatrick, Dr, SwanBon.
Student HostessesPriscilla Alli
son, Francis Burroughs, Lillian Cole
man, Ann Weber.
The Christmas carnival is almost 
here. Saturday evening, December 9, 
is the date of this annual celebration 
by students, past and present, of 
"Dear Old Tech.
The student committees are already 
at work and have planned an evening 
full of varied and delightful entertain
ment. A few stunts by some pf our 
old Alumnae have been arranged. You 
will want to visit Jingle Bell Inn, 
(The Langley Laboratory), Kris Kringles Shanty, (The Union), and tho 
Faculty Club Room, Avhere the Rein
deer Follies will be seen.
If the Christmas spirit doesn't get 
you. the Tech spirit must, so, remem
ber:
The dateSaturday evening, De
cember 9.
The placeCarnegie Tech.
The student committees need a lit
tle more help from the alumnae in 
making costumes for some of the fea
ture dances. In this connection got 
in touch with either Mildred Spencer 
or Bernice Kruger at C. I. T. 'Sclionloy 
2600. The committees would also like 
the alumnae to help with the decora
tions in Jingle Bell Inn, and to sup
ply a few more card tables.
The alumnae members of the com
mittee are: Mary Bechtel, chairman; 
Millicent Leech, Irma Friedman, Mil
dred Spencer, Marguerite Menges 
Shupp, Bernice Kruger, Harriet Mor
gan.
Right before the curtain rises in 
the little theater, isn't the audience 
funny?
As I look back over the faces, I 
rather feel that Darwin was right. 
Have you ever seen monkeys, sitting 
on a circus wagon, wondering what's 
going to happen? Wellthe audienco 
is sitting, looking at each other, wait
ing to be amused.
One middle-aged man, partly bald, 
is sitting there beside his wife. Ho's 
afraid to move, but, out of tho corner 
of his eyes, lies looking at all tho 
young girls.
There are two old maids in deep 
hope and nervous anticipation of a 
lovo plot.
The man with the long thin face 
and light hair is sure to laugh at the 
wrong time.
The young couples are waiting for 
it to be all over with so they can go 
home and talk.
I know that Cat lady is going to cry.
Oh! There goes the curtain.
FOUND
The following articles have been 
turned in recently at the Office of 
the Dean of Men and may be claim
ed by the owners upon "proving prop
erty: Two poclcotbooks, one high 
school ring, one bar pin, one pon 
knife, one cuff link, meal ticket, two 
Eversharp pencils.
First froshie: Say, Is that tho
moon rising over there?
Second ditto: Im sure I dont
know, Im a stranger here myself.
Directory of Alumni Organizations
Alumni FederationPresident, S. G. Little, '10; First Vice Prsident, .T. F. 
Laboon, 12; second Vico President, II. L. Heilman, 17; Third Vico Pres
ident, Genoviovo Cusliwa, '12; Fourth Vice President, S. M. Vincout, OS; 
Secretary, Edna C. Smith, '09; Treasurer, G. L. Tilbrook, '15.
Board of GovernorsCclloge of Flno ArtsII. II. Holhttan, '17; M. M. 
Steen, OS; Frank Knaren, Associate.
Collogo of IndustriesS. a. Llttlo, 10; A. J. Hynd, 22; W. II. 
Ritts, 12.
College of EngineeringJ. F. Laboon, '12; G. L. Tilbrook. 'IB; M. 11. 
Walton, 09.
Margaret Mpriison Carnoglo CollegeFloronco Boclitol, '18; Mrs. F.
I. Gaston, 09; Edna C. Smith, 09.
Representatives at LargeGonovlovo Cusliwa, '12; S. M. Vincont, 08. 
Officers of Alumni AssociationsCollege of Fino ArtoPresident, H. L. Hollmon. 17; Secretary, Frank II. Haaron; Associato Troaauror. Bertha 
Johnson, *14.
Board of GovernorsC. O. Rlogor, 13: Dorothoa Steinmachor, '19; 
Frodorle McConnoll, '17; CJharlotto Smith, 18; Sarah Owon, 
Associate.
College of IndustriesPresident, S. G. Llttlo, 10; Vico Prdsldont, 0. 
K. Koontz, 17; Second Vice Prosldont, K. Ii. B. Julian, *10; Socrotary-Treasurer, A J. 1-Iynd, '22.
Board of GovornorsL. T. Kolly, Associato L. H. Leo, 09; F. Mlllor, 
09; J. M. Orr, '15; G. T, Hoddaoua, 19; F. A. Orotliors. '21. 
College of EngineeringProsldont, J. F. Laboon, 12; SocrotaryTreaaurer, G. L. Tilbrook, 15.
Board of GovornorsR. S. Wilson, IB; M. It. Walton, 09; ID. F. 
Hirsh, *20; F. I. Gaston, '09; G. L. Tilbrook, IB; II. S. Stockdale, '15; H. G. Nleliol, *21; J. F. Laboon, '12; R. C. Cosgrove, 
'18; E. E. Duff, '13.
Margaret Morrison Carnegie CollogcProsldont, Floronco I. Boclitol, 
18; First Vico Prosldont, Jano Llndorman Colo. 11; Second Vico 
Prosldont, Sue Smith. '17; Socrotary-Troasuror, Edna 0. Smith, 
09.
Executive CommlttooMrs. F. I. Gaston, 09; Gall Sollorn Fottko, 
17; Floronco Bochtol, 18; Bornlco Krugor, M9; Mary Cummings 
Koanoy, '20; Margaret Grlflln, 21; Josophlno Whltnoy, *22. (Tho 
___ olllcors aro mombors of this Commlttoo.)
ALUMNI CALENDAR
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 7
Dayton Clan Dinner Party....................................Dayton Engineers Club
SUNDAY, DECEMBER 10
Symphony Concert ........................................................................ 8:1.5 P. M.
Carnegie Music Ilall, Pittsburgh, Pa.
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 14
New York Clan Meeting.....................................................................................
..................Cafe Boulevard, Broadway and 41st St., New York City
FRIDAY, DECEMBER 1C
Buffalo Clan Meeting...........................75 Niagara Square, Buffalo, N. Y.
SATURDAY, DECEMBER 1C
Pittsburgh Clan Luncheon .................................................................12:30 I1
Fort Pitt Hotel, Pittsburgh 
THURSDAY, DECEMBER 21 
Washington, D. C., Clan Christmas Party.
M.
AKRONSecretary, A. C. Sprague, V,. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O.
BOSTONSecretary, J. F. Maxwell, 220 Billings Road, Wollaston,
Mass.
BUFFALOSecretary, William S. Bennett, 722 Prospect Avenue.
CHICAGOActing Secretary, N. P. Rice, 7015 Greenvicw Avenue.
CINCINNATISecretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 East Ninth Street.
CLEVELANDSecretary, E. F. Lundeen, 12722 Barrington Avenue.
Womens Clan Secretary, Mrs. E. C. Speaker, 10906 Woodstock 
Avenue.
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue.
DETROITSecretary, II. A. Neel, 1615 Cadillac Avenue.
ERIESecretary, K. L. Konnerth, 1024 West Twenty-seventh Street.
ELL WOOD CITYActing Secretary, George Dunseith, Jr., East 
Cottage.
HARRISBURGSecretary, Mrs. A. G. Green, 419 Woodbine Street.
HARTFORDActing Secretary, C. V. Carlson, Box 1320, care Lon
don & Lancashire Indemnity Company.
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E.
JOHNSTOWNActing Secretary, R. W. Wallace, 641 Horner St.
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inc/, Ileacock Pille, 865 
East Fifty-first Street.
MONONCtAHELA VALLEY'Secretary; C. A. Stone, 521 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa;'
NEW CASTLEActing Secretary, I*. YT Marecau, Alfl? Rheimngo St.
I NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Camewn, 186 ,park Avcnu.-;, W.eit-i
Chester Park, Tuekahoe, N. Y. ' i 5
1 NORFOLK-Secretary, W. ii, Sundi, 81-1 liranilon Avenue. "*
PHILADELPHIASecretary, W. Lippincott, COO Wa liitr/1',,,
Avenue, Palmyra, N. J.
PHILADELPHIAPresident, L. Ji.-Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company ol! Maryland, 505 Kcal Estate Trust, Building.
PITTSBURGHSecretary, A. J. ,lynd, Carnegie Institute oil Tc.eji-. 
nolo gy.
SHARONActing Secretary, W. J. Thomas, Jr., 95 W. Franklin
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A, Zeller, 194G Railway Exchange 
Building. , , in^| j Sjt" -dWASHINGTON, D. C.Secretary, H. W. Haller, 1103 Munsey
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary W. S.Scott, 65 East Earl Street. 1 ^
YOUNGSTOWNWpmensf Clan Secretary, Misa Bernice Pickens,;
1422 Wick Avcrfqe.
WATCn T ii E
FALL UNDERWEAR 
Wo Have Your Style and Size.
C. A. Heimert
3614 FORBES STREET 
Where ALL The Students Go.
Oakland Savings & Trust Company
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital.........................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits......................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
SRNRP.
T/w Ibr/iojial Writing Mac/line
DANCING
The 
j Rittenhouse
I EVERY SATURDAY0 P. M.
GO TO THE
Tech Barber Shop
FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS 
Flvo Barbers at your service. 
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STS.
illlllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllli
= Compliments = 
of g
Skibo Inn I
5 MM m* 4WP
