[he Tartan
Volume 68, No. 5WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 16, 1968
schedule of events
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 17
8:15 pm 
8:30 pm
Queen Coronation (Syria Mosque)
The Vanilla Fudge and The Magnificent 
Men in concert
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 18
1:30 pm 
3:30 pm 
8:30 pm
9:00, 12:00 pm 
9:00, 10:30, 12:00 pm
IM All-Star Football Game (Tech Field) 
Sorority Skits (Gym)
Bonfire and Pep Rally (Behind Morewood 
Gardens)
Informal Dance with The Jaggers (gym) 
performances by The Grimm Brothers of 
The Coffee House (Wherrett Room)
SATURDAY, OCTOBER 19
10:30 am
12:30 pm
1:30 pm
3:30, 5:30 pm
8:30, 12:30 pm 
9:00,10:30 pm 
8:30, 10:00,12:00 pm 
11:30 pm
"Why Students Revolt" - lecture by Dr. 
Joseph Katz of Stanford University. Joint 
event with the alumni. (Skibo Ballroom) 
Parade from Morewood Gardens to the 
stadium.
Homecoming Game, CMU versus Allegheny 
Victory Dance with The Racket Squad 
(Skibo)
Dancing to the music of Bennie Bennack 
(Skibo Ballroom)
Performances by comedian Fred Smoot 
(Skibo Ballroom)
Performances by The Grimm Brothers at 
The Coffee House (Wherrett Room)
Award Presentations (Skibo Ballroom)
Student Power
Thomas M. Kerr is Lecturer in 
industrial Administration and Law 
Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration, Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity, and Adjunct Professor of 
Law, Duquesne University School 
of Law. He is a Trustee of Point 
Park College and the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, and President of the 
American Civil Liberties Union of 
Pennsylvania and a member of the 
A.C.L.U. National Board of Direc
tors.
At Freshman Camp this year, Mr. 
Tom Kerr spoke on student power 
and the responsibilities it places 
on both the university and the stu
dent. The following in a somewhat 
condensed version prepared by Mr.
Kerr for the Tartan.
WANTED: Alive!
Applicants for 
Managing Editor 
Asst Desk Editor 
Features Editor
Write Tartan, Campus 
Mail or stop at Room 
50, Skibo Sunday 
afternoon.
B-W Cross-Cultural Workshop
A little over three weeks ago 
a group of people went off to the 
woods to look at each other and 
in the space of one weekend to 
learn to know each other. It was 
planned as an intensive personal 
encounter along the lines to sen
sitivity training. It was intended 
that through interaction experi 
ences (one such experience in
volves a group working as a team 
to construct a tower) and inten
sive talk sessions the normal egoshields would be broken and the 
participants would be able to get 
to really know each other.
This was a workshop involv
ing people of three distinct cul
tures, African. Black American, 
and White American. The phil
osophy of such a workshop is that 
by knowing people, one can at 
least glimpse the experience 
base of their culture and as a re
sult communicate across the in
visible lines separating differ
ent experience bases.
There is no way to term a cross 
cultural workshop a success' 
in the conventional sense. Suffice 
it to say that every body there 
was profoundly influenced.
The following articles show the 
reactions of the participants. 
It must be emphasized that they 
are individual responses, but they 
offer insight into the group.
Information for upcoming 
workshops can be obtained at 
the Community Affairs Office. 
Room 57. Skibo.
Al ilteoetvrh A wrlk sek argu
By JAN PARKS
I find it extremely hard to ver
balize my thoughts, not so hard 
to find the words, but hard to 
decide whether I really want to 
verbalize them. Im tired of hear
ing myself tell myself and others 
that I have the right to live.
Perhaps the most important 
thing that happened the week
end of the first BW Workshop 
is that we all came to the same 
conclusion: that there are no con
clusions or answers to the ra
cial problem in America, at 
least not until some Congress
man constitutionalizes the right 
to live.
I can not in my right mind damn 
white racists to Hell without 
sending myself there, too. Be
cause America has given me only 
two alternatives: to become a 
black racist or fight for the right 
to be an individual human being.
After the first BW Workshop, 
a year at Tech, and 19 years of 
being less than an individual, 
Im beginning to believe that 
the latter cannot exist in this so
ciety. Im beginning to believe 
this society will not let them ex
ist.
I want to make it quite clear 
that contrary to what this art
icle is supposed to be, its not 
the Black, Afro-American, Negro, 
Colored viewpoint. Being Black is 
very important and an obvious 
part of me. But being me is more 
important. I reserve  not re
serve  demand the right to that 
individuality.
Rights and Responsibilities
By GERG SPILAKA and 
GERRY GLASER
A note of explanation is in ac
cord. This article was written by 
us playing self-psychologists. 
A bunch of words and a bunch of 
responses. This is a lot easier 
than telling somebody about it. 
The audience is so remote. Nev
er ask a participant what hap
pens at a BlackWhite Workshop. 
Its not so much they cant an
swer  its more they dont want 
to. We are selfish about our ex
periences and want to keep it to 
ourselves.
Both of our parents are all for 
integration and equal rights. 
But. as expressed in the last 
week, via letters, our parents 
would like us to observe and let 
the problem ride. They act as if 
it will solve itself, or by turn
ing their backs perhaps it will 
fadeaway.
We cannot sit by. We are very 
much an integral part of this 
world. We like to think we have 
our own means to achieve our 
goal. Weve learned that every 
person we meet should be given 
the chance to be an individual. 
Leslie is Black, but hell, shes 
not the single personification of 
the Hill District. Leslie is Les
lie. Rachel is Rachel. The same 
as Paul is Paul, Gerry is Gerry, 
and Gerri is Gerri. We are not 
the white establishment. We are, 
each of us, ourselves. The basic 
premise of the Workshop is (at 
least it was our impression be
fore the experience) to acquaint 
the races with each other. It does
nt however. It goes further; 
it acquaints people with people.
By THOMAS M. KERR
It is only with great trepida
tion that anyone over thirty would 
address you all upon this subject. 
As a matter of fact, I do not feel 
that it is appropriate for me to 
attempt to cover the subject in 
all aspects without some opin
ion from those under thirty, and 
some opinions from those who 
are indeed students. I will not, 
therefore, aspire to discuss the 
whole subject, and I will not seek 
to incite you or exhort you to ex
pressions of student power.
Rather I desire to examine 
student power and student rights 
in the past and in the present 
and then perhaps we can make 
some personal guesses, each of 
us, respecting the future.
Of course, we all know that 
there is presently a worldwide 
expression 'jy students respect
ing their relation to the institu
tions they attend, to each other, 
and to the surrounding world. 
Last spring in France, and for at 
least part of the summer in 
Czechoslovakia, last spring and 
through the summer up till now 
in Japan, currently this week in 
Mexico, and, of course, in many 
places in the United States in the 
last couple of years, we have seen 
expressions of student power.
Lets make it clear that this is 
not a development of the last year 
or of the last couple of years. 
As a matter of fact, over the cen
turies students have always been 
difficult to live with. In the Mid
dle Ages, students in Medieval 
Europe: In those years, students 
amused themselves and some
times the people around them by 
dumping garbage out of second 
story windows in the closely 
built medieval towns  some
times dumping this garbage in 
large wads on their professors 
as they walked by. As a matter 
of fact, some of the buildings 
in European university towns 
are constructed in order to frus
trate this propensity among the 
students in those days. I imag
ine that your imagination will be 
able to fill in the details if I tell 
you that in those days the cham
ber pot was a characteristic im
plement or utensil in most second 
or third or fourth story rooms
In Colonial America students 
rioted about food. In colonial 
times they also protested in
fringement of their private lives. 
In the 19th century students took 
sides on the Civil War. Earlier 
in this century students took the 
Oxford Oath against war. On oth
er occasions they supported the 
Spanish Civil War.
Recently, to add to this long 
history there have been more 
protests. It will be interesting. 
I think, to list the most frequent 
reasons for recent student proAdvice to those who attend fu
ture workshops  dont expect to 
find what you are looking for, be
cause you wont find it. You will 
most likely stumble across some
thing  something big. You will 
probably be unable to define it 
to yourself and to others, but it 
will be five times as great as any 
of your expectations. It will be 
you; you will live it.
test. These causes are in the 
following order: (1) civil rights, 
(2) campus food service (3) 
dormitory rules, and (4) the 
Vietnam War.
As another bit of background, 
let me recite that the tradition
al law respecting control of the 
university over the life of the 
student is based upon an histor
ical doctrine called in loco lite
entis. The doctrine of in loco lite
entis has an historical basis in 
the days of the English tutor who 
had one or two children in the 
family in the family home, and 
he was in charge of them all day. 
By this legal concept, he was in 
the place of the parents.
MR. KERR
However, the legal concept 
needs to change as the times 
change. Today, with earlier pu
berty and longer adolescence, 
and with children going to 
schools away from home where 
instead of having a single tutor 
or teacher all day, they may in 
the process of going through ele
mentary and secondary schools 
have as many as a hundred differ
ent teachers who have something 
to do with them. Placing the 
teacher or the institution under 
those conditions in the position 
of ov rhwh litkvsoa may provide 
opportunities for arbitrary or 
tyrannical acts toward students 
who itk not well known by the 
more remote teacher. The doc
trine has been used by some who 
think that the institution has a 
right to search students rooms 
without warning, and without the 
student being present; and some
times the doctrine has been used 
to punish students for off-cam
pus acts not violations of the col
lege policy, but perhaps viola
tions of law elsewhere. Because 
of these kinds of excesses, many 
amendments are now being made 
upon the doctrine. It is being 
weakened. It means a lot less now 
than it did just a few years ago, 
and it will probably dry up and 
blow away
With respect to this doctrine, 
of course, the institution is not 
always unassailable morally it
self. A college which denies the 
opportunity of joining a suiurity 
to a white girl who happens to 
have gone out from a dance with a 
black boy (as happened in a near
by institution just last year) is 
not in a good moral position to be 
telling others what to do in ac
cordance with the power of ia rhe
wh litkvsoag Also any college 
which happens to violate the laws 
of tenure for faculty cannot be 
heard to complain when students 
pwflkelvnt fl drc 4)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANWednesday, October 16, 1968
EditorialLettersStudent Government Directory
The problem of mealtime in Skibo hasn't changed in the 
last two weeks. The cost of an unlimited meal is the same. No
body can just sip a cup of coffee and talk with a friend who 
likes to get the full value out of his contract card. The quality 
of the food is no different.
We are just as hungry, broke, and dissatisfied as we were 
three weeks ago. We asked Mr. Thomas, Director of Physical 
Plant under which Skibo kitchen falls, what his staff is doing 
to remedy the situation. His reply was, in essence, nothing yet. 
He frequently referred to Dr. Stever's statement that the ad
ministration is willing to initiate any dining system the stu
dents want as long as (the students) realize the expense and 
time involved.
Is there a feasible alternative? The most talked about is the 
so-called Cornell Plan, which turned out not to be operating at 
Cornell. The plan, which was found to be in force at Okla
homa University, places all student dining areas on an open 
basis. Meals can be purchased either with cash or coupons that 
may be bought in quantity at about a 25 per cent discount.
Another alternative is to open all dining areas, with diners 
paying for their meal as they pick up their food. Another possi
bility would be to split the downstairs cafeteria into two separate 
dining rooms. Mr. Thomas expressed his confidence that the 
top-notch talent of this university could find a satisfactory solu
tion.
Now he is just waiting to find out what we want. We must 
agree that it would be foolish for Food Service to arbitrarily 
propose a new plan without consulting its captive clientele.
If there is to be any change, we must tell the administra
tion what alternatives are satisfactory. We must use every op
portunity to rationally and forcefully tell them what we con
sider the better way. The Student Food Management Council 
meets Wednesdays in Skibo. If every Skibo patron who is an
noyed or angry at the way he is treated showed up, expressed 
his bitch, and proposed his solution, the administration would be 
confronted with the student consensus.
If nobody shows up to press for change, the administration 
can only read this as consent by silence. It wilMake apathy for 
indifference, and lack of protest for acceptance.
It is up to us, the student stomach, the biggest customers of 
the Food Service, to press for change. Otherwise any action will 
wither for lack of support and well be stuck with the same old 
system.
the Tartan
uipk finhva 
Editor-in-chief
Managing Editorggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggdock .tinkt
B*dnet* ManagerggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggIon kynkoaskt
Detk Editorgggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggivwx di(akv
New* Editorgggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg mgIkvo)kt uo-bx
Assistant Netoi EditorggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggSuzi Stockiun
Sport EditorgggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggTriv ,ksBs
AuUtant Sport Editorggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg,ittx Wtkiv
Photography Editorsggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg.ht(hv dhttoa
Worr kvwkLocal Advertising Managergggggggggggggggggggggguipo( Wirrivsovk
National Advertising ManagersgggggggggggggggggggggggggggggIy(x .i(hr
ivwx .i(hr
Layout Editorggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg'rrkv Wroaaniv
Secretarial Editorggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggg'raok dhhvkx
Circulation ManagersgggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggSiwzkr fisBkv
Whb htsktNews Staff: 'towi Wht(kvC ukpx .iaakrrC Oyaiv IiwhboC k-e
-x ,iytiazC istowoi dwuhvir(C .zktxr dwdizhvC Ozithv ktyBBo
Photography Staff: ,ittx Rtok(nivC uipk Shakvbkt-C Ikttx 
Ooacov(C Ihk 5xrktC 'tow 7ktnkC Tts 7ktawzyrB
Secretarial Staff: zxrroa WhhcC Oyk .issivhC Tv(tki .oivkrJ
rhC Whbbkssk ,ov(ktC Tv(tki dovsBC fitkv Owzi))ktC fie
szx Orhaa
Sports Staff: Tv(tkN 'rroaC PtkdhttoaC uhv WiktC Rtivc 
OiwwhC dowzikr Wy((kvC Ion IivckC uipk KonoazC dock 
Onhrkva
Grass For Mudge?
Is it true that there are 1200 un
known students on campus? The 
administration, student council 
and the Tartan all seem to know 
nothing about these creatures. 
Theres a rumor that some of 
them live in a mudge house.
Perhaps if these students are 
really around someone should 
make an effort to find them. These 
individuals might have some
thing to say on:
A) CMU policy towards the 
draft
B) CMUs increases in tuition 
with no increase in grad student 
take home pay (the price of beer 
is going up)
C) Better ways of teaching un
dergrads (team teaching, etc.) An
other alternative might be for the 
1200 to find a voice. They might 
even form a graduate student soc
iety (GRASS) to disturb the con
servative sentiment on campus.
A1 Thompson
President
Ron HaanBox 164 C-MU  362-1778
Kudos for the Board: 
New Soccer Team
As you probably know now. the 
varsity soccer team was given 
the green light for varsity status 
last spring, but few people know 
the background to that decision.
Although the administration has 
often been accused of being insen
sitive to the students needs, in 
this particular instance we found 
the opposite true.
We approached the board with 
a request to change the budget 
completed a few months earlier, 
and a request for change in the 
varsity program. Although there 
were conservative forces oppos
ing this change and bringing forth 
some valid objections, the major
ity of the board welcomes the in
terest of a group of students in 
the schools athletic program. 
Finally the board rendered a un
animous decision in our favor.
Therefore, we would like to take 
this opportunity to express our 
thanks to Dean Brown. Mr. 
Haynes and the C-MU athletic 
board for their help and vote of 
confidence.
Sincerely 
Luis Rosanes 
Sam Weiner
Back Talk
Recently a letter appeared in 
your newspaper complaining 
about the inaccuracy of The Tar
tans coverage of the Frosh men s 
serenade at Morewood Gardens. 
There was also a complaint about 
the picture which presented a 
scene of lascivity. lechery, and 
eagerness. I heartily agree that 
this picture is valueless as a re
presentation of the acutal facts 
shadowing the Morewood Cam
paign. but I would like to point 
out that the picture's intrinsic 
value is heightened by the view 
of my back in the foreground.
John Mryczko 
(Scobell Hall)
Vice President:
Buddy Brown  Sigma Nu, 1055 Morewood  682-9053
Executive Council:
1. Bowman, Pat  3 A7 Morewood  682-8876  AWS
2. Coyne, Jim  Apt. 7-263 Atwood St. 682-3556 Commuter
3. Pauline. Dave1416 Severn St.. 521-9570 CFP
4. Ruffner. Mark104 McGill. 683-6560 Mens Dorm
5. Schwaubb. Jackie501 Morewood  682-8898 Panhel
1. Abrams. Ilene  317 E. Morewood. 682-8269 Sorority
2. Benthall. Bill  SAE 1085 Morewood, 682-9211 Fraternity
3. Brjezny, Tom  Box 672. 307 Boss. 682-9076 Mens Dorm
4. Dechter. Jim  Box 791, 236 Donner, 682-8646 Mens Dorm
5. Dengrove, Ann  6D7 Morewood, 682-8899 Womens Dorm
6. Dillon, Jim  2456 Beechwood 15217, 521-9194 Mens Dorm
7. Duckworth. Joe  Sigma Nu 1055 Morewood. 682-4715 Fraternity
8. Farmer. Richard  Phi Kap 5024 Morewood PI., 683-9128 Fraternity
9. Glaser. Gerry  200 Henderson, 683-6386 Men's Dorm
10. Harris. Chuck  925 Chetopa St. 15204, 331-0646 Commuter
11. Henstock, Bill  3303 Christy St. 15204. 331-5649 Commuter
12. Jones, Sandv  700 Iw St fiR3-934fi Womens Dorm
13. Letki, Alan  Phi Kap, 5024 Morewood PI., 682-9313 Fraternity
14. Meisner. Bernie1118 Beverlv Rd., 687-2275 Commuter
Port Vue, Pa. 15133
15. Murray, Scott  SAE 1085 Morewood, 682-9211 Fraternity
16. Plaks. Susie  Apt. 102 Morewood, 681-7961 Womens Dorm
4921 Forbes Ave.
17. Rial, Fred  Sigma Nu 1055 Morewood, 682-9053 Mens Dorm
18. Sapet. Tony  4D6 Morewood. 683-9018 Sorority
19. Stapsky, Barry922 Highview St. 15206, 661-8363 Commuter
20. Shore. Debbie  4B4 Morewood. 682-8883 Womens Dorm
21. Vogel, Linda  5086 Elsworth Ave., 441-4279 Commuter
22. Wolfe. Claudia  3D4 Morewood, 683-9694 Sorority.
Arthur Eastman, English Dept. Head: 
from the Big-Time
for television, he is proficient in 
many different fields, but his 
areas of specialization are Shake
speare and 18th century litera
ture.
With a solid educational founda
tion (BA at Oberlin, MA and PhD 
at Yale), he moved up through 
the ranks in the English De
partment of the University of 
Michigan. He was there for 
twenty-one years, teaching and 
writing and dealing with stu
dents. Now, as Head of the Eng
lish Department of C-MU, he is 
again dealing with students (as 
well as teaching a course in 
Shakespeare). Yet here, the stu
dents do not number in the tens 
of thousands as they do at Mich
igan. Hardly. This is a small uni
versity, and Mr. Eastman finds 
here a close warm academic com
munity. Because of the small 
classes and the almost intimate 
atmosphere prevalent in small 
schools, there can be a rapport be
tween the students and the faculty 
not possible in a large school. 
Mr. Eastman would like to see 
more of an affilaiation between 
the students and the faculty as the 
school grows, however, and he 
plans to establish a committee 
or a system where English majors 
(serving as an advisory committee) 
would collaborate with the Eng
lish Department on departmental 
changes, course changes, and 
generally all matters which con
cern the students.
C-MU is. at the moment, a lit
tle David compared to the giant. 
Goliath-like Big Five Univer
sities. Will the warm academic 
community be lost as it con
tinues to grow and increase its 
population, and will it begin massproducing an assembly-line of seriel-number students? To this. Mr. 
Eastman replied. If you take a 
small village, and add cars and 
people and high-risers, eventual
ly you're not going to have the 
same small village you had be
fore." Well. David conquered 
Goliath with a slingshot and a 
rock, and he was still David af
ter his conquest: C-MU has Mellon-made ammunition for its longshot sling-shot, so let us hope that 
as long as the supply lasts the 
aim is good
by SUSAN JACOBI
If you went to the English De
partment and asked one of the se
cretaries in the office for a Gen
eral Professional Biography on 
the head of the department, you 
would receive a four-page record 
with various biographical facts 
and a long and quite impressive 
list of awards, honors, and pub
lished works. You still would not 
know Arthur Eastman, the man, 
though. The man in the office is 
quite different from the man on 
the paper.
Arthur Morse Eastman is. 
like his professional biography, 
honest and straighforward. Yet 
he is modest, without being pru
dish. and he makes no preten
sions about being an authority on 
Shakespeare or having received 
the Award for Excellency in 
Teaching from the University of 
Michigan. Class of 1923. That he 
has received this award and two 
fellowships and has member
ship in a number of honorary as
sociations is not written all over 
his face either, as it is on his 
professional biography. (He is a 
member of the Shakespeare Asso
ciation of America, the National 
Council of Teachers of English, 
the Michigan Academy of Science. 
Arts, and Letters, and the Modern 
Language Association.) Having 
written over thirty-five articles 
and reviews and some material
As we went to press, we re
ceived word of an accident that 
will undoubtedly greatly hamp
er the University maintenance 
service. One of the Cushman carts 
used by the Green Men was sideswiped by j.I careless pedestrian 
at the corner of Forbes and More
wood.
latest reports state that the pe
destrian and the Green Men were 
unhurt, but that the cart has been 
admitted to Shadyside Hospital 
in serious condition with internal 
injuries and multiple flat tires. 
Hospital spokesman declined to 
comment on its chances for re
covery.
A spokesman for the Security 
Office said that the pedestrian's 
feet have teen temporarily sus
pended pending action on a 
wreckless walking charge.

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, October 16, 1968THE TARTANPage 3
roadside
October 16, 1968
Ali teiov irhwivvik es Broadside awi sgu sipivvawefn ulgvi lifk dn uli 
Tartan, cawsi.eiIiffgs ysetiwveunx ((w uli vumkisu dgkn es ieuliw hmdfevlik 
gw msg))epeaf vuaui-isuvb Ali amulgwv awi vgfifn wivhgsvedfi )gw uli -auiweaf 
hwivisuik es Broadside.
HUNGER
Latest estimates are that 40.000 people per week are starving to death in Biafra-Nigeria. If the present rate continues, Biafra with its population of 13 million may become 
extinct.
Aid is being sent from campuses across the country and from citizens not only of 
the U. S. but all over the World. It is an attempt by humanity to preserve a part of it
self.
On the CMU campus a drive will be made at Homecoming. Nothing hard-sell; 
you can ignore it. Its just an opportunity 
The following opportunities will be available: Wednesday and Thursday in Baker 
Hall and at the Senior fence; Friday and Saturday at the SAE display; Saturday at the 
football game. Checks should be made out to Biafra Relief Committee, an organization 
of Biafran students and interested people in Pittsburgh.
By the time you read this letter, the battling may be over in Biafra. The starving 
will continue. The need for aid will still be there.
You cant change the whole world at once. At least this is a chance to do something. 
Skip lunch for a day and send this money where lunch means life.
Vote   Yes  for humanity at Homecoming.
HOW I WAS KKK'D
Impelled by my concern for peace and freedom, by my desire for genuine, inter
personal, black-white relations, and by my basic belief that Wallace eats it, I went to a 
rally for White-Americans Last Hope, Uncle George. Oh, dont worry, I wasnt going to 
do a childish, immature stunt like throw raw eggs at a presidential candidate. I was go
ing to fill the eggs with blood, then throw them. That way it would be interpreted as an 
intelligent, responsible, symbolic act. Anyway, I couldnt get any blood, or any egss, so 
I went as a priest instead.
At the arena, before I knew it, one of Georgies con men had sold me a genuine, im
itation Confederate flag. As I walked up the ramp. Wallace people smiled approvingly, 
now sure that God was on their side. Then, a tiny, wide-eyed blonde girl, seeing my
flag and cassock, said, Father........why?
In the background, a crude, raw voice cried out the inspirational declarations of 
reasoned judgement and the American way, Bearded commie scum! Go back to Russia, 
you moiherfin red rats! Naturally, the cries of Racist followed, but were stilled by 
SDS, who wanted no spontaneity to interfere with their own planned spontaneous de
monstrations. Our red, white, and blue defender of motherhood, quickly retorted. Rashist? You callin me a ra-shist? Ill show you whos a ra-shist! With that he pulled 
out his wallet, took out a card, and displayed something which left every Pseudo-in
tellectual professor, Hippie, and member of the Liberal Establishment in silent, horified awe. It was an official white Ku Klux Klan ID card in red and blue ink.
The show continued with the Wallace cheering section, an aggregate of high school 
hoods, hells angels, and the six foot eight division of the local moron populace. At one 
point a 260 pound Wallace supporter came on stage doing cartwheels, while alternately 
thumbing his nose and his expansive pro-George fanny. Impulsively. I stood up and yel
led. What else is on Wallaces platform, and wouldnt you know it, the band started 
playing Ode to Billy Joe. About 9000 sore throats later, the program got around to 
singing America the Beautiful, followed by God Bless Alabama. Finally Uncle George 
appeared, shouting something about God, country, apple pie, and Curtis LeMay.
Around 9:25 we ran out of slogans, so SDS unorganized a march. Remembering my 
Dixie flag. I asked for a match, went down to the bottom row of seats, and stood above 
the fiery-faced fagot-killing, commie-hating. Last Hope of White-America. I lit the 
match and held it under the flag. However, the flag, like the Man, was plastic; it would
nt burn.
I tried desperately to keep the melting plastic from dripping down my arm As 
I turned around, a flash blinded my eyes. Television cameras, photographers, police, 
firemen, and the Alabama State Troopers surrounded me. While the hippies on the left 
cheered and the bigots on the right screamed. I was confronted by the gray haired su
perintendent of police. He knocked the flag out of my hand, muttered something about 
fire control regulations, and dragged me down the steps. Take him to the station! 
Come with us please. Father. Certainly, my son.
What followed? A ride to Number 1, booking, a call, night court, juvenile court, 
a cell, rebooking.another cell, another call, another court, and finally Tech about mid
night.
___I had been conned by the police, canned by parents, and klanned by the Last Hope
of White America.
Daniel Kablack as told to Karen Lee Norbut
THE OFFICE IS OPEN
No American can fail to observe the disunity, frustration, and anger which fill 
our nation. And further criticism, rather than courses of action, will only increase these 
fears and hatreds. Therefore, when we cast our ballots in November, we must consider 
the programs which will be initiated by a candidate on his election. These directions, 
these actions, will be ours for four years, and it is these considerations which must pre
scribe our vote. We will not be able to avoid the decisions of our next President, 
unfortunately we will have to bear them and the frustration of dissent until 1972. We 
shall have a chief executive in January.
But let us address ourselves to the campaign of 1968. Certainly any voter, even if 
he is merely concerned with his personal security, must know what a candidate will 
or hopes to do. With any reality structure whatsoever, how can we elect any man who 
has made a precise and methodical refusal to take a meaningful part in a discussion of 
the issues of today. The recent Harris Poll shows that only 17 per cent favor the cur
rent Administrations Vietnam policy. The silent Mr. Nixon, however, with no solution 
in mind, has straddled the fence, to appeal to all. The nomination campaigns of Sena
tor Eugene McCarthy and Governor Nelson Rockefeller, revealed that the American 
people not only want this crisis solved.  but that it is an issue in which Americans de
mand to have an opportunity to voice their decision. Expression is the key, so let us de
cide what is to be expressed in the next administration.
For a candidate who has not been in contact with the problems and the issues 
directly, one would hope for at least a moderately well planned program to replace the 
current administration. Spontaneous creativity is nice, when confined to the realm of 
thought, but when it becomes the primary source and administrations policy, diaster 
will ensue. Scratching the surface of the problems will not yield the root causes of de
spair and discontent  we can all see the unrest. Yes, we may be silent on the issues, and 
silent in our failure to recognize the problems, but silence only breeds increasing trou
ble, and repression only more violence. Nostalgically, Americans look to the Eisen
hower administration as a placid and peaceful time, but tranquility is the sheathing of 
serious undercurrents. Peace, today, will not be achieved by inactivity and apathy, it 
will and can only be achieved through the dynamic interaction and interrelation of peo
ple and nations.
Truly, then, we must look for affirmation, and affirm ourselves in this election. 
In judging our affirmation, we must not forget that actions are the necessity of words, 
programs the necessity of ideas. Programs and actions are what we must select. Goverrnment encouragement of private enterprise is fine, but what fills the void while the slow 
battle oI encouragement is won Change and reforms are necessary, nowthe voices 
of faith in our government will not last forever. Security will not be established long if 
security is our only concern. A moratorium will only grow in our common effort to move 
forward.
We must provide the positive protection of the civil rights of all, but not through 
the suppression of Black or White. We must search for peace, but not in the exploding 
and spiralling exansions of the weapons of destruction. Arms control is necessary both 
nationally as well as internationally Communities, both foreign and local must be pro
vided with the urgent necessities of food, clothing, education and employment. National
ly, all men must be provided, what has already been secured for many. Communica
tion must continue personally as well as diplomatically  the Peace Corps and V I S T. A. 
must continue and grow. Government encouragement must be extended. The Vietnam 
war must end. not just because of its cost in gold drain and lives  but because we have 
no purpose there. All in all, we seek peace, neither the peace of calm and consola
tion. nor the peace of inactivity, but the peace which challenges us to courage and com
mitment. unenforced by the constraints of conformity.
The United States has begun to move, but it clearly needs the direction of pro
grams which construct and re-eveluate.The time is at hand for action, the action whose 
course we must decide, and an action which has grown opt of past activity and dy
namic progress Surely there are reservations we must hold on any leader. The choice 
in 1968 is not distinctly clear, but clearly a choice must be made. Of concern, here, is 
the progress of this nation. Casting your vote is only the beginning of challenge to con
tinue. The candidates must take a stand on the issues, with the possibility of losing, 
that we might find that one deserves to win.
Bertram Robert Cottine

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANWednesday, October 16, 1968
(Continued from Page 1) 
violate some rule applied to them.
What I wish to do is to define 
the interest and area of proper 
control for the authority of the 
University.
Then having clearly defined 
that area, I wish to discuss those 
areas of student life and conduct 
which are not properly within 
that area of control.
With respect to those areas of 
student life which are under the 
control of the university, it 
seems to me that we must then 
have clearly defined procedures 
and procedural rights so that the 
substantive rules in such areas 
are fairly carried out..
In addition to fairness, some
times it is helpful if the admin
istration of rules is done with 
some elementary intelligence.
There are ways of adminis
tering rules foolishly and there 
are ways of administering rules 
with understanding. And when 
we talk about rules, I hope we are 
always talking about the use of 
power and authority with under
standing for the other person.
With respect to power and au
thority, what is the area of in
terest okthe university
First, it must have complete 
authority with respect to aca
demic matters. Where there 
may be offenses such as cheat
ing and plagiarism, the univer
sity must make sure that the 
quest for learning and the aca
demic freedom of the Institu
tion is not blemished by obvious 
misconduct like this. Also the 
university must have power and 
authority over property. It must 
be able to protect the equipment 
from being misused, property 
from being damaged, and from 
any interference in the use of the 
property of the university by 
some people depriving others of 
that use.
I repeat, where these pow
ers are to be carried out by the 
university or its representatives, 
there must be explicit, previous
ly known procedures for find
ing the facts in the matter and 
deciding upon responsible and 
possible punishment. These pro
cedures properly should proceed 
from faculty, student and admin
istration participation. There 
should be an explicit, previously 
planned and known method of re
view or appeal.
With respect to the above mat
ters of property and equipment 
which must be protected for the 
use of all, I think it is appro
priate to make an aside with re
spect to the philosopher of the 
New Left, Marcuse. It seems to 
me that he proposed a fundamen
tal change in our surrounding 
world which we must face up to 
and be willing to discuss and chal
lenge. He proposes that it is a 
right to interfere with the free 
use of facilities, including plac
es to meet and make speeches, 
of others in order to carry out 
the ends of the New Left. He sug
gests that there should not be 
freedom of speech for all, nor 
should there be a hearing for all 
ideas, but only for some. When you 
inquire as to who will decide 
the ideas that will be heard and 
those which will not be heard, 
the response of the New Left is 
We will.
But I submit that this is a very 
narrow and mistaken view, and 
it is quite possible that they will 
not always or even sometimes 
be in the position of power to 
make such decisions. The only 
way in which we can insure that 
all ideas may be heard is to make 
sure that there is freedom for 
all to be heard, and this freedom 
involves freedom to use facili
ties and locations for speech. 
Actually, the concept of freedom 
for all ideas to encounter each 
other in a marketplace of con
cepts where the better ideas af
ter discussion may prevail, is
quite a new one in human soci
ety. We have come through tens 
of thousands of years of narrow
minded tyranny in which kings 
and emperors and prelates limit
ed by their political or religious 
power the opportunities of oth
ers to express their views. It is 
really only in the last 250 years 
since John Locke and Montes
quieu that the comparatively civ
ilized idea has been heard in 
some parts of the world that 
there must be freedom for all to 
be heard in order that ideas will 
be available to all.
Now I am going to give you 
those areas which I think are in 
the universitys interest and 
areas where its power should 
not be applied.
In going so, I want to say very 
clearly that I am speaking my 
own personal views as an indi
vidual. I in no way represent this 
university or any university in 
making these remarks. These 
are merely the views of a single 
person, that is, myself
In my view, whether or not a 
student burns a draft card, par
ticipates in a civil rights march, 
or a YAF march, or an SDS meet
ing, or a George Wallace cam
paign rally; whether he engages 
in sexual activity; whether she 
becomes pregnant; whether he or 
she attends or does not attend 
church; whether he or she sleeps 
all day, or drinks all night, or 
smokes marijuana; what he or 
she chooses for dress and ap
pearance; these are not, I repeat, 
the concern of the university.
These are the concern of the 
responsible individual.
As an aside here, let me say 
that I may have said something 
that indicates to you an attitude 
of comparative freedom with re
spect to sex and drugs. Let me 
emphasize that if the only knowl
edge you presently have about 
sex or drugs is what you have 
learned from others in the class 
or others of your age or others 
in school, that you dont know 
enough about these subjects to 
handle them.
With respect to drugs, for in
stance, you need to know their 
effects physiologically, psycho
logically and pharmacologically, 
on the individual. You need to 
know the law  whether or not 
you agree with it. You have to 
consider the morality of ever ad
ministering something like this 
to another person who does not 
know you are doing so. and you 
have to think about whether or 
not the universitys property 
should be used to prepare or to 
use such things -
With respect to both of these 
subjects I suggest, and as a mat
ter of fact I urge, that you seek 
competent professional advice 
so that you may be fully inform
ed about them before you take 
any, let us say, risks with them. 
There should be in our college 
library, although I have not gone 
to look or checked to see, an ex
tensive collection of thorough
going works of a modern variety 
with respect to sex and relations 
between the sexes, and with re
spect to drugs. That is one place 
to start. Another place is your 
family physician if he is a per
son you think you can talk to. 
Another place is another family 
professional man, your lawyer; 
or your spiritual advisor if you 
think he is a person that you can 
talk to. But get solid, basic in
formation about these subjects 
before you undertake freedom 
with respect to them
Let me list some so-called 
rights of students which have 
recently been enunciated in a 
joint statement of the American 
Association of University Profes
sors, the Association of Ameri
can Colleges, the National Stu
dent Association, the National 
Association of Student Person
nel Administrators, and the Na
tional Association of Womens 
Deans and Counselors.
All of these organizations have 
suggested countrywide consider
ation of rights for students along 
the following lines.
First, nondiscrimination as be
tween persons of differing sex
es, differing races, differing 
religions, differing cultural back
grounds with respect to admis
sions, participation in campus or
ganizations, membership in fra
ternities and sororities, and their 
enjoyment of the surrounding 
community.
With respect to fraternities 
and sororities, if you are con
sidering membership in these 
organizations, find out what the 
local policy is and find out what 
the national policy of that organ
ization is with respect to discrim
ination. When you are being rush
ed. take a look around the soror
ity or fraternity and determine 
by looking whether it is  de fac
to all white or all black or all 
jewish or all Christian, and de
termine whether or not you want 
to join such an organization, and 
determine whether or not you 
think that the university should 
encourage such an organization 
on its premises. Also with re
spect to discrimination I think it 
is the responsibility of the uni
versity and its students to make 
sure that none of the students 
are discriminated against in the 
surrounding community.
expression. In those cases the 
universities should have gone to 
Federal Court and moved to quash 
or oppose the order of the subpoe
na. And I think they would have 
succeeded by merely arguing the 
First Amendment and arguing 
the absolute need in a university 
or academic community for free
dom of discussion.
The same kind of freedom ap
plies when a university or stu
dent group chooses outside speak
ers to appear on the campus. A 
few years ago Herbert Apthekar. 
a Communist, appeared at the 
University of Pittsburgh and at 
St. Vincent College in this area 
to speak. Both institutions are 
still there. Apparently they have 
not exploded or crumbled from 
the experience. In the same way 
representatives of the right may 
be invited, and there should be no 
barring of any opinion on the cam
pus _thatthe students want to 
heard.
Freedom of expression also ap
plies to publications. Sudent 
newspapers, magazines and other 
publications should be entirely 
free and uncensored. The editors 
and writers should be told about 
the laws about libel, about slan
der, about obscenity, about good 
taste, then they should be left 
free to say what they have to say
 again freedom including the 
freedom to sometimes be wrong. 
That is how you will learn well
 when you make a memorable
destroyed upon graduation and 
not kept upon the campus after 
that time.
There should be no record any
where respecting the possible po
litical or religious beliefs of a 
student.
With respect to this question, 
the university that you are en
tering has been a leader in fur
nishing the nation with ideas 
about this kind of student right. 
Dean George K. Brown, your 
Dean of Student Affairs, has writ
ten articles in national publica
tions recommending this kind of 
student record procedure..
Next, with respect to off-cam
pus life, it is suggested that the 
student is a citizen. He should 
deal with off-campus authorities 
as a citizen, obtaining his own 
counsel, obtaining the help of 
his parents, if need be, to protect 
him. If he is found to have done 
something wrong off campus, he 
will be punished by the off-cam
pus authorities. There should be 
no double jeopardy whereby the 
institution penalizes him again 
when he returns to the campus. 
Also in this respect, students 
should keep in mind the possibil
ity of bringing charges against 
over, zealous police who may in
jure them or deprive them of their 
civil rights in their normal civil
ian capacitv.
This off-campus attitude of 
freedom to choose his own way 
should apply to the draft resis
tance. These are consituations 
for the individual, and the indi
vidual has made his peace with 
the outside authorities, he may 
return to the status of student 
and continue his studies. I have 
already said, but wish to re
peat, that where there are discip
linary proceedings on the cam
pus, there should be complete 
procedural due process. Proced
ures should be formulated in ad
vance, not made up after the al
leged transgression. Violations 
should be published in advance 
so that the student knows what 
he may do and what he should not 
do, and there should be an es
tablished method of appeal.
There should be protection even 
as out citizens in the outside 
world have protection against 
unreasonable search and seiz
ure. It is not the right of the uni
versity to invade students 
rooms without warning to see if 
they can find beer or pot or what
ever else they may be looking for. 
The Fourth Amendment to the 
Constitution of the United States 
says that every person is protect
ed from unreasonable searches 
and that his surroundings and 
home are his castle.
Of course, the institution may 
reserve the right to enter up on 
the premises in times of danger 
such as possible fire or smoke or 
in order to check important fa
cilities such as pipes carrying 
steam .under pressure, etc.. but 
this right on the part of the insti
tution should be established be
forehand and should be under
stood by both the student and the 
institution. Other than this, no 
entry should be made in the stu
dents lodgings unless he is pres
ent.
The rights which I have enum
erated are of vital importance 
in recognizing that students are 
responsible adults conducting 
their own lives.
Scratch a recent student up
rising and I think you will find it 
incited at least in part bv viola
tion of one or more of these 
rights. Such violation often re
flects indifference, complacen
cy. and lack of personality of the 
part of the great university. Part 
of the problem may be indicated 
by the fact that students do not 
have a part in decision-making 
On this campus the new Faculty 
Senate has five councils and it is 
(Continued on Page5)
IN LOCO PARENTIS?
Second, there must be free
dom of expression on the campus 
so that academic freedom can 
flourish in openminded inquiry. 
In my opinion, classroom discus
sion is privileged so that all ideas, 
whether they be good or foolish' 
may be heard.
There must be freedom of as
sociation. Student organizations 
may have to describe their con
stitution and their purpose and 
their officers to the university, 
but they should not have to give 
the university the list of their 
members.
Let me illustrate this. Last 
year the House UnAmerican Ac
tivities Committee of the United 
States House of Representatives 
sent subpoenas to the University 
of Michigan and the University 
of California asking for the 
names of student members of 
certain organizations opposed to 
the war in Vietnam. The universi
ties (in my opinion much to their 
shame) complied. They furnish
ed the House Committee with 
these names. In the words of the 
law this can have nothing but a 
chilling effect on freedom 
of association and freedom of
mistake.
Freedom of expression in
cludes freedom of students to 
choose their own personal appear
ance. Their style of hair, their 
style of beard, their style of 
dress, their style of miniskirt: 
etc. is not the business of the uni
versity. It is their own private 
business subject to their own pri
vate good taste.
Another subject, student rec
ords. In some institutions in the 
past voluminous student records 
containing subjective informa
tion and opinion about the stu
dent. written by faculty mem
bers who did not ever show their 
opinion to the student or express 
it to him so he could confront it 
have been contained in his rec
ords long after he left the insti
tution. At present it is recom
mended that only the transcript 
of grades should be available to 
any outsider and that this should 
be shown to an outsider only with 
the student's acquiescence or 
permission in the particular in
stance Further, any disciplin
ary records should be entirely 
separate and should be destroy
ed periodically and certainly all

---------------------------------------------------

Happenings
(Continued from Page 4)Wednesday, October
INTERNATIONAL FIRESIDE 
Sunday: October20
7:30- 10:00 P.M.
At the home of 
Dr. Juan Schaffer,
Professor of Mathematics 
Sign up at YMCA-Skibo 
or BH335 
by noon Friday
GENERAL ELECTION
For Student Government Senator-at-Large. All undergrad
uate day students eligible. Get 
petitions for candidacy now. 
All petitions must be in by No
vember 1,1968.
C-MU ASTRONOMY CLUB
The C-MU Astronomy Club 
will hold its first meeting of 
the semester Friday. October 
25, at 7:30 P.M. in Skibo Room 
55. The topic of discussion 
will be the 11 refracting tele
scope. All interested persons 
are cordially invited to attend.
ARGENTINA SINGS
The Spanish Cultural Club of 
Pittsburgh will present on its 
October program, in Spanish, 
ARGENTINA SINGS TO THE 
WORLD - Folk and Tango Music 
- a musical production in color 
by the well known newscaster, 
Alan Boal.
The meeting will be held in the 
Rogal Room of the Young Men 
and Women Hebrew Associa
tion (Y.M. & W.H.A.), 315 Bellefield Avenue, Oakland, on Sat
urday, October 19 at 8:15 p.m.
CHATHAM LECTURE
Pittsburgh. Oct. 11  "Pol
itics and Values'' will be the 
subject of a lecture to be pre
sented by Erwin Hargrove of 
Brown University on Thursday. 
October 17. at Chatham College.a 
The 11:: A.M. lecture in
the college chapel is open to 
the public.
09COMPUTERIZED
DATING
FOR FREE BROCHURE ON 
COMPUTERIZED DATING.
ONLY FOR THE MOST DISCRIMINATING. 
FOR FREE BROCHURE,
WRITE:
DATAMATIC 
P. O. BOX 7421 
OAKLAND STATION 
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
15213
WALLYS
cT,yBIWT'SzC 
? zO 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
BATES FLOATERS 
FLORSHEIM
Ty
,ghmfaw
,wepivR
? 5'zO 
HUSH-PUPPIES 
LOAFERS 
FLATS
DRESS SHOES
 WHITE CLINIC DUTY SHOES 
3612 Forbes Avenue (Across from Strand Theatre)
With
LOUIS BELLSON
and his orchestra
TICKETS: $10.00 - $8.00 - $6.00 - $4.00 NOW ON SALE at all NET
WORK TICKET AGENCIES, located in NATIONAL RECORD MARTS. 
Alto GATE No. 1 CIVIC ARENA.
 SPECIAL STUDENT RATES WITH THIS AD 
$2.00 DISCOUNT ON ABOVE PRICES 
Present this ad at any Notional Record Mart or Civic Arena 
(Must Be Exchanged Before October 20th)
Benefit Performance Sponsored by South Side Rotary Club For Charity
Q rcx Volu \ ov\
Will one destroy the other?
presently proposed that there be 
student participation on those 
councils so that expressions of 
need or opinion on the part of the 
students may have a channel to 
reach the Faculty Senate. There 
is some discussion that this Sen
ate may someday be changed to a 
University Senate. The Faculty 
Senate is new and it has to get 
started first the way it is and then
I suppose we can have a good 
healthy, wide-ranging debate as 
to how it should be changed. But 
at any rate, at the present time 
the students at the university do 
have channels of communication 
whereby their leaders and them
selves may be heard and their 
opinions given respect.
Finally, I suggest that these 
rights are not ends in themselves 
but are tools to enable you to
obtain what you are really here 
for. And have you given some 
consideration to what it is you 
de seek here? In talking to some 
of you I have detected at least 
three general levels of decision 
as to what you are here for. 
First, I have heard some say that 
they are here to find out how to 
negotiate the system. They 
are saying, I want to find out 
whats the easiest way to get out 
with the diploma so I can get the 
job and make some money. Sec
ond, there are those who are here 
for training. They want to be 
trained in some specialtysome
thing like being a locomotive en
gineer, I suppose and they have 
little interest in anything other 
than that particular specialty 
training. Thirdly, I have heard 
some who said they are here for 
an education, that is, to become 
men or women of all seasons  
people who are not just trying 
to accomplish the main chance, 
not people who are trying to find 
out how to do just some particu
lar narrow skill, but trying to find 
how to be wholly participating 
men and women in the compli
cated changing environment in 
which we find ourselves.
I do hope that you are seek
ing an education so that you can 
indeed become men and women 
for all seasons representing this 
university and yourself and your 
country well for the rest of your 
lives.
16, 1968THE TARTANPage 5
Flying lessons.
Apply here:
That's right. You, too, can be a pilot.
Join the United States Air Force and qualify for 
pilot training. Become a leader with executive 
responsibility.
Well, what else? A pilot is the officer in charge 
of a million dollars worth of high flying, sophisti
cated supersonic equipment, isn't he?
Yes, and you'll wear a snappy blue officer's uni
form, enjoy officer's pay and privileges. You'll 
probably travel to exotic foreign lands, and have 
a secure future in the biggest scientific and 
research organization. World's biggest.
You'll be where all the exciting Space Age break
throughs are. Where it's happening. Now. Today. 
Right now. This minute. The Air Force is the "now" 
place to be.
If you yearn to fly ond don't try ihe Aerospace 
Team, you'll miss your big chance, 
let that be a lesson I
UNITED STATES AIR FORCE
Box A, Dept. SCP-810
Randolph Air force Base, Texas 78148
NAMEAGE
(PLEASE PRINT)
COLLEGECLASS
GRADUATION DATEDEGREE
ADDRESS
CITYSTATEZIP

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANWednesday, October 16, 1968
PART TIME WORK
The T. McArtle Company is hiring managers in the field of 
Entertainment sales and related services. Upperclassmen 
and graduate students only. Male and female applicants 
accepted. VERY LUCRATIVE for ambitious individuals. Start 
immediately . .. Please call 362-7460 for more information.
WERE SORRY
We had to turn away two thousand of our 
friends last Friday night at our light show 
at the William Penn Hotel. To the two thou
sand who got in, we sincerely hope you 
dug it.
We'll do it bigger and better next time. 
Watch for anouncements.
Solar System 
Light & Power Co.
HARRY, 
RICHARD and CHRIS
"Kubrick's special effects border on the 
miraculousa quantum leap in quality 
over any other science fiction film evermade!" Newsweek Magazine
2001a space odyssey
SUPER PANAVISIONCIME RAIMAd'5S.,S
STARRING KEIR DULLEA  GARY LOCKWOOD 
ENPtAY .r STANLEY KUBRICK ao ARTHUR C. CLARKE 
PRODUCE0 AND DIRECTED BY STANLEY KUBRICK
RESERVED SEAT PERFORMANCES AND PRICES
MON. THROUGH THURS. EVENINGSORCHESTRA AND LOGE................ 2.50BALCONY.............................. 52.00 and 1.75
FRI., SAT., SUN. AND HOLI EVES.---------------- \ND LOGE ............3,002.50 and 2 00ORCHESTRA AND LOG BALCONY...
MATINEE-WEDNESDAYORCHESTRA AND LOGE.............. $2 0*BALCONY................. ..........$1.75 and 1.50
MATINEESSAT., SUN., HOL. 
ORCHESTRA AND LOGE.. .... $2.5 BALCONY...............................$2.00 and 1.75
EVES, at 8:30 (SUN. at 8 P. M.) MATS. WED. That 'srt ig.t Y ot ut
Far special attention ta theatre parties an  student iroaps. call Phyllii Gaben (412) 471-7402. 
Ticket* available at Simbels, Mellon Square; Horne's, Gateway Center 
Kaufmann'*, Downtown; all Pitt*burgh National Bank Office*; Sear* 
Roebuck Store*; National Record Marts; or any Stanley Warner Theatre.
AirConditionedWARNER tamer theatre
3365th Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa.471-7400
Scholarships for 
Graduates In 
Communications
The Stanford University De
partment of Communication is 
now receiving applications for 
graduate scholarships for the 
1969-70 academic year. The 
awards carry stipends from 
$2,145 to $4,945.
Scholarships are available for 
students preparing for careers 
in editorial journalism, mass 
communications research, and 
broadcasting and documentary 
film. These are grants, not assistanships.
In addition to the profession
al M.A. programs, the depart
ment offers Ph.D. degree pro
grams in communication re
search, developmental communi
cation. and public affairs com
munication.
Requests for particulars should 
be addressed to the Executive 
Head. Department of Communica
tion, Redwood Hall, Stanford 
University, Stanford. California 
94305. January 15 is the dead
line for applications.
Furnished
Apartments
Several studio 1 bedroom and 2 bed
room apartments available Septem
ber. Shadyside-OakJand. Air condi
tioned, dishwasher, disposaH, park
ing, coth*dral celings. Grad Student 
fI Staff preferredsingles only.
FROM $165.00
261 4463 - Evenings 643-9591
Bfptsu7Jmu NPNiKv
COLLEGIAN
PLAN
:))kta xhy  yvoHyk nkszh( 
h) financing szis guarantees 
xhyt ltknoyn (klhaosa (yt1 
ovlktoh( xhy itk whnlrkse
ovyour whrok-k k(ywisohvg
IVAN HARTZBERG
2020 W. Liberty Ave. 
Pittsburgh, dry x(mm) 
563-7866
cS*cim.claSLda!?-:
OF INDIANA 
INDIANAPOLIS
-V
Pittsburgh Chamber Music Society
:HI:: BzTB'O
All Concerts at 8:30 p.m. 
in Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
October 21........Clarion Wind Quartet
November 25...............Juilliard Quartet
January 13 ...............Borodin Quartet
February 10...................Brahms Quartet
(Piano and Strings
March 3...................Guarneri Quartet
April 7 ......................La Sail Quartet
Student Season Tickets $3.00 
Now On Sale  Room 100 Fine Arts Building
Scotch n Soda A Married Coed? 
For Heavens Sake Join C-MU Dames
a
Fall Production:
This year for the first time 
Scotch n Soda will present a 
fall show as well as their annu
al spring production. However, 
the fall show promises to be one 
that is not only different in for
mat, but a new undertaking for 
the club too. SnS has never done 
a fall show or a show that wasn't 
written entirely by a Tech stu
dent. For Heaven's Sake." writ
ten by Helen Kromer and Fred
erick Silver, is the show, and it 
has had enormous success in the 
four years since its first produc
tion. It is a musical satire on 
the Church and some of the prob
lems of our generation, such as 
sex and apathy. Exact dates for 
the performances have not been 
set but the show will go on some
time in either the last week in Oc
tober or the first week in Novem
ber. Announcements of ticket 
sales and performance dates will 
be posted on campus and in the 
Tartan as soon as available.
The club would also like to an
nounce that the following posi
tions are open for the spring 
show: Scene Designer, Costume 
Designer, Lighting Designer, 
Choreographer, and Director.
All interested should leave 
their names and box numbers 
with the secretary at the Informa
tion Desk in Skibo with Scotch 
'N Soda clearly marked.
Exp. Films Presents: 
OFF-ON, FFF1CM
A program of new Award Win
ning films from the Underground 
has been selected as the open
ing program of the CarnegieMellon Experimental Film Group. 
The films will be shown Wednes
day, October 23, at 7. 9, and 
11 P.M. in the Skibo Ballroom 
at C-MU. Admission is 75c.
Highlighting the program is 
Scott Bartletts OFF-ON, prize
winner at the 1968 Ann Arbor 
Festival, which uses advanced 
videotape techniques in the pro
duction of an extremely exciting 
film. Also to be shown is Will 
Hindles unusual FFFTCM: Hindle, better known for his CHI
NESE FIRE DRILL, was recent
ly named recipient of a $10.000 
grant by the American Film In
stitute.
Another Ann Arbor winner will 
also be screened; Bruce Baillies CASTRO STREET took top 
honors at the 1967 Festival, in 
addition to winning awards at 
the Maryland and Foothill Fes
tivals. Mary Golds NIGHTSONG 
was an award winner at the Can
nes Festival, but has been out of 
circulation for a number of 
years. Tom Palazzolo. young Chi
cago film-maker, has won 11 ma
jor awards in the past two 
years; his new film, THE BRIDE 
STRIPPED BARE, will be includ
ed in the program.
The C-MU Dames would like 
to invite all the wives of stu
dents and all married student 
women to their Introductory Tea 
on October 20. 2-4 P.M. in
the Skibo Ballroom. A Halloween 
Party-Beer Blast is scheduled - 
for Saturday. October 26. at 
8 P.M. in the basement of the 
Doherty Graduate House (locat
ed the corner of Forbes and Beel
er). Attendance is open to all 
married couples and students 
with dates. Costumes are option
al but bring your own beer mugs.
A nominal fee of $2 per couple 
will cover snacks and all the 
beer you can drink. G
The Dames are an organiza
tion of wives with many and 
varied interests. Monthly meet
ings are held at 8 P.M. in Ski
bo on Tuesdays. Groups with 
special interests such as bridge, 
crafts, interior design, and knit
ting hold additional meetings. 
Our activities also include such 
projects as assisting students ^ 
seeking off-campus housing, a 
student furniture exchange, and 
various bake sales throughout 
the year. Sports nights, parties, 
and beer blasts are for husbands 
as well.
The furniture exchange will 
begin November 2 and will op
erate throughout the school year 
in the C Basement of the Doher
ty Graduate House. Donations of b 
usable furniture will be greatly 
welcomed 2-5 P.M. on Novem
ber 2 at Doherty. Although 
profits on all sales will be used 
exclusively for the purchase of 
additional used furniture, the 
success of this project will de
pend highly upon donations. Sales 
are restricted to C-MU students 
 I.D. cards will be required. 
Notices of further dates and J 
hours for acceptance and sale of 
furniture will appear in the Tar
tanEXPERIMENTAL FILM GROUP Presents . . . 
Toawk 5esses.
UNDERGROUND FILMS
SCOTT BARTLETT OFF-ON
:H Tss Twdgw Wivuetaf 5essiw
BRUCE BAILIIECASTRO STREET
:1 Tss Twdgw Wivuetaf 5essiw
WILL HINDLE FFFTCM 
9qxqqq T-iwepas Wefsvueumui Gwasu
me68 GOLDNIGHTSONG
cassiv Wivuetaf 5essiw
THE BRIDE STRIPPED BARE, AN AESTHETIC QUALITY, 
GOD IS DOG SPELLED BACKWARDS (Classical Gas)
WEDNESDAY, OCT. 23 - 7-9-11
SKIBO Ballroom 75 Cents CARNEGIE-MELION
Other films scheduled for 
showing include AN AESTHET
IC QUALITY, SONATA FOR 
PEN AND BRUSH, and GOD IS 
DOG SPELLED BACKWARD 
(seen as CLASSICAL GAS on the 
Smothers Brothers show).
The next Experimental Film 
Group presentation, scheduled for T 
late November, will feature a * 
new color film by pop artist An
dy Warhol.
i!
Ht

---------------------------------------------------

William Ball: Showman and Innovator
Wednesday, October 16, 1968THE TARTANPage 7
Othei observations on language 
included that the majority of the 
adjectives in the English language 
are perjorati^e and that the langu
age is strongly influenced by the 
force of gravity. When ever a de
scription of euphoria or striving 
for achievement is described, 
the adjective is upward direction
al. particularly in reference to the 
theatre. Hence, the name for 
Ball's performance. "Acting Up.
SOCCER
Homecoming Game 
Saturday, Oct. 19 
OC-MU vs. 
POINT PARK
10:00 I.M. FIELD
by L. K. Pecaites
The gathering had the air of 
birthday party and a victory cele
bration. The balcony was filled 
with eager students awaiting the 
maestro. This was William Ball's 
one-man show and reunion with 
Pittsburgh audiences. Three years 
ago Ball and his company were 
here for a six month interim dur
ing which the fledgling Ameri
can Conservatory Theatre tried 
its wings in the local smog. Af
ter the days of experiment. Ball 
and ACT became part of the 
Washington extablishment. where 
they still precariously maintain 
survival.
Ball, one of the great innova
tions of current American theatre, 
has earned the reputation of the 
crazy man. who locked up his 
actors for fear that they would 
run away ' In his show. Acting 
Up." he showed himself to be not 
only a teacher concerned with 
acting" as a formalized struc
ture. but also an avid student of 
the human animal.
Ball s thesis is act the act and 
the feeling will follow meaning 
that emotions are not exagerous 
forces that govern the human phy
sical curcumstances that surround 
them as the feeling of snobbery 
that prevades the man who dilates 
his nostrils and thrusts his chin up 
or the sadness that overcomes 
everyone who walks in the wind 
and starts to cry.
Ball, being a showman, and an 
excellent one. managed his perfor
mance despite being temporarily 
confined to a wheel chair. He 
also provided a unique experience 
for those who attended. He has 
extended the concept of a show" 
from someone performing at a 
passive audience to acting with 
his audience as he demonstra
ted techniques such as stage 
laughs and then coerced the audi
ence to act with him. This is the 
same principle that such groups as 
the Living Theatre in Paradise 
Now are applying. This techni
que could prove to be a potent 
weapon for the theatre in its bat
tle to survive to growing appeal of 
the cinema as an artistic and com
munications form.
Besides a repetoire of seventvfive laughs. Ball also has inter
esting theories of language, one 
of which is that words of a cer
tain emotive class usually employ 
the same initial constant sound 
For example, the w sound is a soft 
secure sound as in womb woman, 
warm. Also the st pheneme is one 
of arrested action, stutter, start, 
stop, stammer. This could be a 
great p< rlor game for linguists.
i*J^'~****3000000000000000000000000B000O00a0Sr
you will see 
the actual moment of 
conception 
...the 
complete
birth of 
a baby
...the 
intimate 
story of a 
young girl.
rKimnn^ourt
FORSES AVE OAKLAND 682-2334'
RUGSfor less
Profit by CHASE'S buying power
Over 1000 New 9x12s
$15 $20 $29 $39 $49
also 6*9*. 9x15, 12x11, 12x15, 12x18, etc.
Og diuuiw vifipuegs asnoliwiR
for
lessFURNITURE
Save 40% at CHASE'S associated wholesale showrooms, 
close by our rug outlet.
CHASES
5432 WALNUT STREET 
SHADYSIDE
Next to Shadyside Pott Office; across 
from the Casboh, 3 door from the Gazebo.
Enjoy Shadysidel
Open twy day 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. (Saturday till 5 P.M.)
Enrico International
SaEgw cmuues. ask Laew Blghhes. 
207 Oakland Ave. Twuevuep Laewvunfes. zrhiwu
Below Forbes Ave.BY APPOINTMENT682-3738
S0O0000000O0000000O00O0O0000O000000XXX36XXXXXXXSC
REACH 25,000 STUDENTS
Now have your classified ads run in the Chat
ham ARROW, the Duquesne DUKE, the PITT 
NEWS,, as well as the C-MU TARTAN.
For $5.00, up to one column by one inch in each paper 
may be run. Larger ads are $5.00 per column inch.
BRING YOUR ADS to THE TARTAN, Room 50, Skibo or Box 
17, Campus Mail, by Friday preceeding week of insertion.
JOBS 
MEN AND WOMEN
Full and Part Time
Work part time now and have a full time job io At summer. 
We will adjust work to fit your schedule.
SALARY:
Parttime: $75.00 per week  Full Time: $130.00 per week.
Scholarships Available
For Appointment Cad:
441-9616 or 281-7819 between 9:30 and 2:00
INDAPOLNSOtArs,PlAPsA
Now we have nothing against a good 
bookkeeper. Weve even been known 
to balance a budget or two in our 
time.
But the kind of graduate student 
were looking for comes with sights 
set higher. Hes interested in mak
ing important decisions and making 
them well. In learning to analyze a 
problem, evaluate data, and arrive 
at the best possible solution.
Our man may be looking for a 
business career. Or he may just want 
to be the straightest thinking young 
man in the Peace Corps.
Interested?
Stop in at your placement office 
and make an appointment to see our 
representative. Hell be on campus 
within the next few days to tell you 
about our M.B.A., M.S., and Ph.D. 
programs.
University of Rochester 
College of Business Administration
HAVE YOU HEARD IT?
The new young sound,
that is...ON
thehT
9HA Night Sounds
9:00 P.M. to Midnight
Ywe.lu ask ifgkep bbb ug )eu 
uli -gkiws -ggk )gw
after dark listening
Switch on to 93.7FM and FM Stereo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANWednesday, October 16, 1968
On The Sports Scene
A Frustrating Afternoon
by LARRY BREAN, Assistant Sports Editor,
TARTAN SPORTS
Qrove City Edges C-M U, 10-6
Homecoming on the Grove City campus brought an overflow crowd 
of 7000 to the stadium, as alumni and students filled the stands. Amid 
all the festivities  the fraternity floats, the Grove City band, the queen 
presentations, and numerous banners displaying the partisan interests 
of the crowd  sat a group of Tech rooters who, along with the cheer
leaders, had made the hour and a half trek by bus.
For most of the afternoon, all this spirited crew had to cheer about 
was a fine effort by the CMU defensive unit.Except for one lapse  
a short roll-out pass from Gary Teter to Greg Magness that developed 
into a 78-yard touchdown the defense was very impressive. Grove City 
hit on only six of twenty passes, as tough play by Joe Chernay and 
particularly by Bill Halstead thwarted the Wolverines aerial attack. 
Chernay forced a fumble and broke up many passes through his hard 
hitting. Halstead gave an outstanding effort at the safety position, halt
ing four Grove City drives with three interceptions and a fumble re
covery. He also tipped a pass that Ed Dumont stole for Carnegie, set
ting up an eventual CMU touchdown.
Grove Citys running attempts up the middle were generally 
to no avail, since Larry Getto was waiting for them most of the time. 
Getto. slowed considerably by a heavily taped left knee, made numerous 
hard tackles, often stopping GC runners at or behind the line of scrim
mage. The ground yardage gained came on sweeps and option plays. 
The rush helped the CMU cause as Stalker, Horn, and Getto frequently 
penetrated the opponents backfield. Overall, Grove City managed only 
113 yards on 50 carries.
Three of Grove Citys ten points came after a tremendous CMU 
goal line stand. With GC on the one-foot line, the Tartans stacked up 
the middle of the line. Two running attempts were stopped cold. On 
third down. Horn and Morabito hit Steve Bish for a five - yard loss. The 
Grovers settled for a field goal from the 11-yard line.
On offense, CMU did not get good field position and had a dif
ficult time putting together a drive. While double-teaming Chernay, 
GC picked off four of Squires passesj In addition, the Grovers block
ed two of Mark Woods punts, giving the home team the ball on CMUs
30 and 15 yard lines respectively. CMUs touchdown came on a Squires 
to Chernay pass in the end zone with 1:57 remaining in the game. The 
Tartans ran out of timeouts following the kick-off. but held the Wol
verines on downs and gained possession on their own 20 with 0:19 
on the clock. Squires completed a pass to the 40 with one second re
maining, but the Tartans could not run another play.
There were many breaks which determined the outcome to the con
test. Woods first punt inadvertently hit Grove Citys Brent Boore. who 
was trying to get out of the way, and Roger Ohlson alertly recovered 
for the Tartans on the GC 21-yard line. However, the referee signaled 
the ball dead and gave the home team possession. On another occas
ion, a Carnegie player barely touched the GC punter and was called 
for roughing. Off-setting penalties gave GC another punt. Insetad of 
gaining possession on the 35, CMU had to start from their own oneyard line.
Once again, Gettos presence was a cause of concern to the oppo
sition. Whether the Grove City coaches were aware of Gettos number 
(11) before the game started is unknown; however, on more than one 
occasion the GC quarterback started signals, Ready, Set, Watch 
Eleven ... Ken Batorski caught an elbow in the eye late in the first 
half and had some trouble with his contact lens. After ice applica
tions, Batorski returned to action in the third quarter. Batorski picked 
up 23 yards on eight carries while Lombardo gained 27 yards on 7 
attempts . . . The Grovers increased their all time lead against the 
Tartans to 14-11-1, in a series that began in 1908 . . . .CMUs front wall 
of Ohlson. Buzzard. Slatosky, Doran, and Helhowski gave Squires good 
protection most of the time. When the rush was particularly strong. 
Squires had difficulty spotting open receivers coming out of the back
field .... Joe Chernay, who was well covered most of the afternoon, 
caught a Squires pass in the end zone for his fifth touchdown of the 
year . . The Tartans havent defeated Grove City since 1961 when Tech 
pinned a 14-9 loss on the Wolverines.
This was a Homecoming victory for Grove City, but you can 
root for one for CMU this Saturday when the Tartans take on Alle
gheny College Last season the lia tors beat CMU 34 to 20, but the 
Tartans are diie tor a victory this year. Game time is 1:30. but come early 
to see all the pregame acticities.
CMU back Ed Dumont outraces ref and Grove City player while re
turning interception in final quarter. Tartans lost, 10-6.
,lgug dn Dgi Anfiwby Frank Sacco
Occasionally, an official in a 
football game may miss a clipping 
penalty or some other infrac
tion of the rules, and either team 
may benefit. However, when 
a referees call sets up the oppo
sition's lone touchdown and costs 
you a hard fought game, some
one is bound to get mad. The Tar
tans dropped a 10-6 decision 
at Grove City Saturday afternoon 
and had the right to blow their 
cool.
In the first quarter, a fourth 
down boot by CMUs Mark Wood
< subbing for Larry Getto as punt
er) caromed off the shoulder 
of a Grove City player. Roger 
Ohlson alertly pounced on the 
loose pigskin to give the Tartans 
possession and good field posi
tion. The referee, who was ei
ther sleeping or waving to a pret
ty co-ed in the stands, never saw 
the ball hit the Wolverine play
er, and gave Grove City the ball
and a first down. Of course, the 
Grovers promptly marched 78 
yards for the deciding six points. 
The key play was a touchdown 
Grove City a 7-0 lead. Midway 
through the second period. Penar 
intercepted a pass intended for 
Chernay and ran it back to the 
Tartans' 21-yard line. The Tar
tans made a strong goal line 
stand, but the Grovers added 
three more points as Steve Bish's 
field goal attempt from 11 
yards out split the uprights. A 
strong Grove City defense kept 
the Tartans off the scoreboard 
until the fourth quarter with about 
two minutes left. A pass from 
Squires to Chernay brought the 
ball to the 9-vard line of Grove 
City.
Two plays later Chernay caught 
another pass from Squires for 
the score. Squires' pass was just 
out of reach of Rudy Tepsic as the
Tartans tried for a two-point 
conversion. The loss brought 
the Tartans' record to 0-2-1. 
Next Saturday. CMU faces an 
unbeaten Allegheny team for the 
annual Homecoming game.
GROVE CITY 7 3 0 0  10 
CARNEGIE 0 0 0 6 -6
CMUGROVE CITY
10First Downs9
87Rushing Yardage113
116156
35-12-4Passes20-6-4
11-26.5Punts8-43.2
0Fumbles Lost1
20Yards Penalized15
GC -Magness. 78 passfrom
Teter < Ross kick) 0-7 
GC  Field Goal. Ross 2i 0 10 
CMU  Chernay, 7 pass from 
Squires (pass failed) 6-10
Tartans Meet Allegheny
For Homecoming
6CMH
By AL LETZT 
Tartan Sports Editor
One of the big events during 
this gala Homecoming weekend 
will be the gridiron clash be
tween CMU's Tartans and Alle
gheny's Gators. Alumni, along 
with Carnegie students, will get 
a chance to view a spirited Tar
tan squad which is still seeking 
its initial victory of the season. 
Memories of last year's 35-16 
rout of Franklin and Marshall 
(the first Tech HC victory in 
seven years) will hopefully be 
revived this weekend
The Tartans have compiled 
a disappointing 0-2-1 record 
thus far. However, with a little 
luck, in addition to the experi
ence gained in these initial 
three contests. CMU may begin 
their winning ways this weekend 
The added incentive of playing 
before a big home crowd may 
pull the Tartans through. Fresh
man quarterback Rickie Squires, 
like his predecessor Tom Hubka, 
likes to put the ball in the air. He
has been somewhat erratic, but 
an improved completion percent
age can enable the Tartans to 
produce an explosive offense. 
Squires has able receivers in 
Joe Chernay <5 touchdowns. 36 
points*. Tony Bugel and Rudy 
Tepsic. Chernay led the team in 
scoring last year with 47 points. 
The defense, led by an injured 
Larrv Getto. came alive last 
week to limit Grove City to a 
touchdown and a field goal. Ken 
Batorski is the leading Tartan 
rusher with 161 yards in 32 
carries. Close behind are Tom 
Lombardo < 131 vards-20 car
ries) and Dave Thomas (128 
yards - 37 carries.
Allegheny finished third in the 
Presidents' Athletic conference 
last season with a 5-2 slate 
One of their five victories was 
a 34-20 win against the Tartans. 
Junior signal caller Mike Ganey 
(10) completed 58 5'< of his pass
es last year for 930 yards and 
six touchdowns. John Boughton
< 45 was Ganev s favorite tar
get with 31 receptions for 376 
yards. The leading ground gainer 
for the Gators. John Lyth (28 >. 
picked up 389 yards rushing a 
year ago: however, he has been 
injured this season and may only 
see limited action. Senior Jim 
Stover (72) is another stand
out performer for the visitors. 
He starts at offensive tackl?. 
but may see action on the defen
sive unit as well.
The Gators have won each of 
their four games played this sea
son In their upset win over Beth
any. Allegheny's defense recov
ered five of the six Bethany fum
bles. All Conference middle-guard 
Bill Pikiewicz graduated, leaving 
a crucial weak spot in Alleghe
ny's defense
The Tartans will be in for a
tough game this weekend The Ga
tors have a strong defense 
against the run. but may be vul
nerable to a well executed pass
ing attack, which will be manda
tory for a big CMU homecoming 
victorv.
Ul'

---------------------------------------------------

Original House Of Beef
Corner Forbes and Bouquet
5eul Wasuavuep Caefn Bhipeafv
Free Deliveries to all Dorms 
from 9 p.m. - 12:00 a.m.
OPEN: Sun.-Thurs.: 6 a.m.- 3 a.m.; Fri.-Sat.: 6 a.m.- 4 a.m.
621-1185 - Phones - 621-7388 - Phones - 683-9820
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
OriginalPRIME ROAST BEEF
Served the Way You Like It
HOUSE -pizzaSERVED BETWEEN 7 P.M. and 3 A.M.
FREE DELIVERY TO ALL0ORMSI 
MINIMUM ORDER $2.00
PHONE
621-1185, 621-7388 or 683-9820
Between Claeses or at Study Break-SCOTTY'SOPEN TO SERVE YOU 
24 HOURS A DAY
3914 FORBES AVENUE }
. . . and ... *
j ROUTE t, NORTH OF ETNA 7918 PENN AVENUE \
Two Victories Even 
Harrier Record
Wednesday, October 16, 1968THE TARTANPage 9
Soccer Team Loses 
To Grove City
PfftS
* 1
The Tartans Big D had a big day. Here they stop Grove City runner 
Ramsay for a short gain. ,lgug dn Dgi Anfiw 
____ >.
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR AU YOUR
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS 
WE RENT AND REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE :
3711 FORBES AVENUE }
Phone: 683-2181 J
Student Discount on Most Hems
By DON BAER
At 4:30 last Wednesday at Forest Hills park in Cleveland, the CMU 
cross country team was wondering if the Great God of Athletics was 
trying to slowly torture them to death. They had just lost their sec
ond meet in a row by one point.
One point is the smallest margin of victory or loss in many sports, 
but in cross country one point can be gained or lost by the shifting of 
just one position by any one of the top seven runners on the team. The
Tartans were mad. but all was 
not lost. Although the harriers 
lost to Cleveland State 26-28. 
they had beaten Adelbert College 
(Western Reserve) 21-35. (This 
could happen because the three 
teams were participating in what 
was called a triple dual meet. 
Each team meets each other in a 
dual meet.) The team had shown 
improvement since their one point 
loss to Grove City. They gave a 
powerful Cleveland State team 
a rough battle and convincing
ly defeated the Adelbert team 
which had defeated CMU last 
year.
On Saturday, the Tartans took 
on the harriers of Bethany and 
the meet proved to be no contest 
as the Tartans won 41-18. Fresh
man Juan Rodriguez won the race 
for his first victory as a Tartan 
and he was well supported bv the 
rest of the team.
This week was marked by sev
eral developments which are in
dicative of team improvement. 
Senior Bill Bullers ran his fast
est race ever on our home course. 
Steve Hawkins broke into the top 
five runners and is pushing for a 
higher position Tough battles are 
going on for all slots below the
top five thanks to the new chal
lenge system set up by coach 
Trezise. Barring mental let-down 
the team should win seven in a 
row.
CMU vs Adelbert-Cleveland State
1. PeculisCS22:10
2. FlynnCMU22:20
3. DevaiCS22:31
4. PolezalA22:33
5. RodriguezCMU22:51
6. BaerCMU22:56
7. DeiCS23:02
8. CurtisCS23:02
9. YovanA23:04
10. HawkinsCMU23:11
11. ManonCMU23:12
CMU vs Bethany
1.RodriguezCMU24:16
2.FlynnCMU24:18
3.MasquelierB24:41
4.HawkinsCMU26:07
5.BaerCMU25:15
6.ManonCMU25:16
7.HurraldB25:27
8.BullersCMU25:49
9.LiddleB26:12
10.TurnerB26:14
11.ElyCMU26:22
12.LorhanCMU26:49
PACKERSLEAGUE
PKA gained two victories last 
week. Thev narrowlv defeated 
the NADS. 20-12 with a 
second-half rally led by Unterzuber. Two days later PKA 
smashed DU A 25-14. BTP 
A destroyed the E. J. "Carp" 
42-2. Then BTP A" was nearly 
upset by the X.A.D.S. With seven 
seconds remaining Beta pulled 
out a 15-12 victory. The 
N.A.D.S. bounced back to defeat 
TDP B" 45-24. Tau Delt led 
24-21. but a 24-point fourth 
quarter by N.A.D.S. gave them 
the win.
STANDINGS: 
BTP A 
PKA
DU A 
N.A.D.S. 
E.J.s Carp 
TDPB
LOSS
0
0
2
2
3
3
BROWNS LEAGUE
TDP A" has looked impres
sive while compiling three vic
tories. After romping over SN 
B" and beating EJ Bandits'* 
37-16, Hillard Lazarus led Tau 
Delt to 40-16 triumph over 
PKT. Oher scores: ATO A" 
over BTP C " 34-6. EJ's shut 
out SN 16-0. PKT defeated BTP 
32-2 and beat SN 40-17.
STANDINGSWINLOSS
TDP A'30
ATO A"20
PKT21
SN"B12
EJ Bandits13
BTP C03
COLTS LEAGUE
Three teamsare tiedfor the
lead with 2-0records.Old Men
beat DTD 50-11 and racked SAE 
Gold" 43-0. EJ  Thorny'' al
so produced two easy victories, 
over DTD 56-5 and SAE "Gold  
25-8. BTP B" beat TX 15-1 
and overtook KS 22-20. In 
other action, it vas KS over DTD 
32-12 and DTD over SAE "Gold" 
22-15.
By DAVE VINISH
The Tartans travelled to Grove 
City Friday afternoon to meet 
their toughest opponent of the 
season. The experienced Wolver
ines scored four times in the 
first half and went on to down 
CMU 5-1. This was the second 
loss in four decisions for the 
Tartans.
A corner kick deflected off a 
Tech defender gave Grove City 
early 1-0 lead. Their other four 
goals resulted from hard shots
SOCCER LINE-UP 
Starting Eleven
G Borisewitz
RFB Vinish
LFB Mera
CFB Eisenman
RHB Sugarman
LHB Meyer
CHB Palme
OL Weiner. S.
IL Bedo
IR Escott
OR Rosanes
Chiang.
Close.
Hay.
Herrman.
Hart.
SUBSTITUTES
Kenworthv.
Kern,
Lee. 
Letzler. 
Weiner. M.
COWBOYSLEAGUE
SN A" crushed EJ Warts" 
28-6 and defeated DU J" 
43-1 to gain first place with a
3-0 record. ATOBbeat the
Architects 17-7inother action.
STANDINGSWINLOSS
SN A30
SAE Purple20
ATO B10
E. J. Warts12
Architects12
BSR01
DU J03
STANDINGS
Old Men
EJ Thorny
BTP B *
KS
DTD
TX
SAE Gold
WIN
2
2
2
1
1
0
0
LOSS
0
0
0
1
3
1
3
which barely eluded the diving 
Tartan netminder. The lone CMU 
tally came in the fourth quarter 
when Henrik Palme capitalized 
on a penalty kick. It was Palme's 
fifth goal of the season.
The Grovers had picked up pre
viously victories over St. Fran
cis and St. Vincent  both by 
5-0 scores. They also were de
feated by Wooster. 5-1.
The Soccer team will pieet 
Point Park at home this Satur
day. Oct. 19. at 10:30 a.m.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TART ANWednesday, October 16, 1968RECRUITING SCHEDULE
Monday, October 28, 1968
AMOCO Chemical Company 
Boeing Company 
Research Analysis Corporation 
Shell Development Company
Tuesday, October 29, 1968
Armco Steel Corporation 
Boeing Company
Federal Communications Commission 
Gulf Research & Development Company 
NASA  Goddard Space Flight Center 
Pennsylvania Dept, of Highways 
Singer Company
Wednesday, October 30,1968
Army Engineering Center  Ft. Belvoir
Ashlad Oil& Refining
Cornell University Graduate School of Business
First National City Bank of New York
Olin
Penn Central Company
Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Department of the Interior 
Geological Survey
Thursday, October 81,1968
Airborne Instruments Laboratory
Argonne National Laboratory
Atlas Chemcai Company
Collins Radio
Harvard University 
Graduate School off Business
Owens-Corning
PPG Industries
Alden E. Stilson & Associates
Friday, November 1, 1968
Alcoa
Argonne National Laboratory
Boston Consulting Group
Univeristy of Chicago Graduate School of Business
Colgate-Palmolive Company
Republic Steel
Union Carbide Corporation
Oak Ridge National Labs.
Monday, October 21,1968
Control Data Corporation
Sperry Rand Research Center
Std. Oil Company of Ohio
United Aircraft Corporation 
Norden Division Research Division
Xerox Corporation
Tuesday, October 22,1968
Carborundum Company 
Control Data Corporation 
Doubleday, Inc.
Galletta Engineering Corp.
Gulf-General Atomic Corp.
Lincoln Electric Company
Wednesday, October 23, 1968
Center for Naval Analysis
Eastman Kodak Corporation
Gulf-General Atomic Corp.
North American Rockwell Corp.
Autonetics Division Los Angeles Division Rocketdyne Division Space Division
Univ. of Rochester  Graduate School of Business
Thursday, October 24,1968
Eastman Kodak Corporation
B. F. Goodrich
Martin Company
M. I. T.  Sloan School
Naval Air Engineering Center
North American Rockwell Corp.
Autonetics Division Los Angeles Division 
Rocketdyne Division Space Division
U. S. Army  OCS Select Team
Weirton Steel
Friday, October 25, 1968
Atlantic-Richfield Company 
ARCO Division
Columbia Univ.  Grad. School of Business
Lord Corporation
Los Angeles Scientific Laboratory
M. I. T.  Lincoln Laboratory
State University of New York at Buffalo 
Graduate School of Business
