The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 39 No. 1CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1945
United War Fund 
Opens CIT Drive
The United War Fund and the 
Community Fund of Pittsburgh and 
Allegheny County have announced 
that their 1945 campaign will run 
from October 1st to 31st. Professor 
Kent Schaffer, chairman of the CIT 
War Committee has announced that 
the goal on the Tech campus is 
$6,050, which he hopes to reach 
through the combined efforts of the 
faculty, the administration, and the 
student body. This year, as in the 
past, student solicitors will come 
around to the various class rooms to 
pass out the pledges and give a few 
facts about the 1945 campaign.
This is the last time that the Na
tional War Fund will be included 
in our local United War Fund cam
paign, for it will be liquidated by 
the end of 1946 along with all other 
National War Fund Agencies.
The budget for local needs has in
creased 7.3% since last year because 
of the rising cost of food and sup
plies, the need for building repairs, 
the provision of moderate wage in
creases to some employees, the need 
for larger youth recreation pro
grams to combat the rise in juvenile 
delinquency, and because it is nec
essary to provide participation in 
the National Retirement plan for 
those who are not eligible for Fed
eral Social Security.
Seasons First Play9/Has Spanish Setting
The first production of the Drama 
Department will be The Romantic 
Young Lady, a Spanish comedy, 
directed by Mr. Ben Iden Payne, 
who recently directed Winters 
Tale for the Theatre Guild. This 
first play will be given the last of 
October.
The story of the play is that of a 
romantic young lady who rebels 
against the dominance of men and 
who desires to live her own life, 
which is exceedingly hard seeing 
that the Spain of some years ago had 
very rigid rules as to what a young 
lady could and could not do.
The cast includes:
Rosario: Mary Laura Wood 
Gerry Jedd 
The Appartition: Ray Boyle 
Pepe: Casey Stine 
Maria Pepe: Lucy Seibert 
Edith Loew 
Dona Barbarita: Pat Falkenhain 
Ellen Hovde 
Guillermo: Danny Franks 
Mario: Bill Ross 
La Malaguena: Pat Darragh 
Renee Orkin 
Emilio: George Stupakis 
Ned Manderino 
Don Juan: Parker Meyers 
Irene: Phillis Petriken 
Mary Gibson
Notice To Seniors
All students graduating this year 
who have not received appointments 
for Thistle pictures should report to 
Jean Lisle in the Thistle office between 
3:00 and 5:00 on Friday.
Regulations Explained To Entering Freshmen
The freshman regulations and 
their violations have now been com
pletely defined. Under the guidance 
of the Freshman Regulations and 
Orientation Committee, which also 
acts as court for adjudging offend
ers, these regulations will be en
forced. This committee and court 
consists of Pinky Clark, general 
chairman; Ralph Happe, inter-fra
ternity; Lillian Simpson, Panhellenic; Mary Lou Ashe, Dorm Coun
cil; Pat Baum, Cwens; John Seippel, Alpha Phi Omega, Esther 
Haushalter, Student Council; and 
Phoebe James, Margaret Morrison 
Senate.
Freshman are asked to know the 
history of Carnegie Tech and all 
songs and yells in the Freshman 
handbook. They must also speak to 
all studentsboth male and female, 
and must not sit on the senior fence. 
Assemblies are to be attended by 
all freshmen; where roll will be 
taken. In addition, freshman boys 
are required to wear the traditional 
dinks and ties (plaid for engineers 
and Windsors for fine arts boys). 
The girls will be required to wear 
beanies with vari-colored tassels 
designating their schools. Ml these 
regulations will be enforced until 
traditions exams have been passed. 
They begin on the first day of school 
and continue for a period of six 
weeks. At this time, the traditions 
exam, given by Alpha Phi Omega 
and Cwens, must be passed with a 
minimum score of 70%. None of 
these regulations hold off campus, 
on Sundays, or at recognized 
school dances.
For any violation, the following 
punishment will be given. It is com
posed of three stages. At the first 
offense, the culprit is brought up be
fore the court and warned. At the 
second offense, the culprit is again 
warned, made to appear as a partic
ipant in Fun night, and told that he
Council Re-Election Set 
For Friday, Oct. 19
Election of new members and re
placements for Student Council 
will be held October 19. Since two 
members, Sue Crobaugh and Marge 
Loeffler, are not returning to school, 
a senior from Margaret Morrison 
and a senior Fine Arts representa
tive must be elected. Also, four non
voting members are to be chosen: 
one from Engineering school; one 
from Fine Arts; and two assistant 
secretaries from Margaret Morri
son. It is recommended by the Stu
dent Council that the two Margaret 
Morrison representatives be Junior 
secretarial students.
Any student desiring to be placed 
on the ballot must have a petition 
signed by 25 students in Miss Birds 
office by Friday, October 12. Every 
student petitioning for these offices 
is requested to write his platform 
for publication in the October 16 
Tartan which goes to press October 
12 at five oclock.
must make 5% more or 75% on his 
tradition exam to pass.
Fun Night is a certain night des
ignated by council, on which the 
freshmen will have to entertain the 
rest of the school with songs, and 
yells, in punishment for their viola
tions. Its purpose is to acquaint 
upperclassmen with freshmen and 
to give violators a chance to clear 
their records. The object is not to 
embarras anyone, but to create fun 
for all. In case there are too few vio
lators, a dance will be held later.
Upperclassmen are aSked to re
port any freshman violators by 
putting their name and the name of 
the offender in boxes which Student 
Council will provide around school.
All Tech Veterans who wish to be 
exempt and any other person who 
is exempt must carry an exemption 
card signed by the president of Stu
dent Council and the Chairman of 
the Freshman Orientation Committee. \JL, I * I
Quality Control Group 
Organizes at Carnegie
On Wednesday and Thursday, October 3 and 4, Carnegie Tech was 
t)?e prev# for, 4be meeting cf the or
ganizing committee of a national 
quality control society. The commit
tee consisted of one representative 
from each of thirteen local control 
societies in varies sections of the 
country and three members at large. 
Its purpose was to erect the skeleton 
structure for a professional society 
to extend the use of statistical qual
ity control methods. This was ac
complished by establishing an in
terim organization to be known as 
the Society for Quality Control to 
be replaced at the end of a year by a 
permanent one; the temporary or
ganization consisting of a board 
with one representative from each 
member society from which are se
lected a President, an executive 
committee of five members chosen 
to represent the various sections of 
the country, and an editorial board 
consisting of four industrial and 
four academic representatives. Mr. 
E. M. Schrock, newly elected presi
dent of the society, explained that' 
although the chief activities of the 
organization would be in industrial 
quality control, they would not be 
limited to this field.
The statistical methods in quality 
control represent one of the newest 
advents in industrial advance, and 
the establishing of this national soceity to extend the use of these 
methods is an important step to
wards increasing even above present 
high standards the dependability of 
commercial products thereby assur
ing everyone an honest chance to 
realize the many developments of 
war and post war science.
Notice
All persons interested in writing for 
the sports staff of the TARTAN re
port to the TARTAN office in the 
Union at 5:00, Friday, October 12.
Pittsburgh Firm Gives 
$100,000 to Endowment 
Fund For Scholarships
Last month the Pittsburgh Plate 
Glass Company, by making a grant 
of $100,000 to the Endowment Fund 
of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
established a Pittsburgh Plate Glass 
Scholarship Fund. This fund makes 
possible a cooperative scholarship 
plan to enable selected scholarship 
holders to obtain college training in 
engineering and science at Carnegie 
Tech while gaining practical ex
perience by working in company 
plants or laboratories during the 
summer.
H. B. Higgins, president of the 
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, 
explained that the company con
ceived the plan as a method of se
lecting and developing future per
sonnel. Graduates who became reg
ular employees would benefit by 
first hand knowledge of the Com
pany and its works and products. 
Mr. Higgins stated the company 
chose Carnegie Tech because of his 
confidence that it is one of the lead
ing educational institutions of the 
country and because the campus is 
located in Pittsburgh where the 
company was founded, Irl close 
proximity to the general offices and 
several important plants of the com
pany. Each year many company em
ployees attend Carnegie Tech even
ing school.
The gift of the Pittsburgh Plate 
Glass Company offers great educa
tional opportunities to interested 
students. It also makes an important 
contribution in the current. Endow
ment Fund Campaign of Carnegie 
Institute of Technology, increasing 
the total raised to date to approxi
mately $3,300,00. Until July 1, 1946, 
for every dollar raised by Carnegie 
Tech (up to a total of $4,000,000) 
the Carnegie Corporation of New 
York will contribute two dollars, a 
possible total of $8,000,000.
Organization Info 
Needed For C Book
Information for the Student Di
rectory, is being compiled in the 
Bureau of News and Publications, 
Room 246-C, Industries Hall. All or
ganizations wishing to be included 
should furnish data on officers and 
membership to Miss Tallmadge, 
head of the News Bureau, promptly. 
Deadline for fraternities is 12:00 
Noon, Wednesday, October 17. Data 
must include officers, members and 
pledges listed according to regular 
C Book practice.
Students who did not fill out a 
permit to register this fall and 
whose home or Pittsburgh addresses 
have changed during the summer 
should call at the News Bureau and 
leave their new addresses at once. 
Students who have moved since reg
istration this fall must file change 
of address with the Registrar im
mediately, in accordance with 
White Book regulations.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1945
Qditosi'l AnmcluusiStudent Council Minutes
To The Freshmen
You may not as yet be aware of it, but you are very lucky freshmen. 
The^e is not an upperclassman on campus who does not envy you, for you 
will receive in your Freshman year the benefits that students who enrolled 
in the last few years dreamed of finding in college but were denied because 
of the war. You are entering college in a peacetime year. It is true that 
there are still signs of wartime life about. Many of the campus traditions 
which fell by the wayside during the war can still be numbered among 
the missing; many of Skibos students have not yet come or can never come 
back to the campus; and the veterans enrolling this year are going through 
a difficult adjustment from war to peacetime living. Yet the students enter
ing college this year do not feel the pressure of war as did their predeces
sors. The great sense of relief and relaxation which has come to them with 
the realization of the fact of the end of the war will bring a new lightness 
of spirit into all the phases of campus life. You will find that your first year 
in college will really be fun, if you approach it in the proper spirit and use 
the proper techniques to become adjusted to it.
College life for many of you will seem very different from the exist
ence you formerly knew. The people you meet, and there will be thousands 
of them, will treat you as an, adult not as a child. Your studies will be much 
harder than they were in high school, and you will be expected to be 
responsible in a much greater degree than ever before for your own educa
tion. College life in general will, in fact, be very confusing; but you will be 
able to adjust to it rapidly if you approach your problems with humor 
and with balance. The problems you are facing now are the growing pains 
of your mental change from an adolescent to an adult; if you can give them 
a laugh, you neednt worry about the future. You will find that there is at 
least a little fun in every bad situation; if you can find it and smile at it, 
your trouble will not seem so terrible after-all. Youll find too, that if you 
divide your time and your energies in campus life, youll have a much 
better time. Give a definite length of time to study each week, but be sure 
to save a little extra time for social activity. Dont spend so little of your 
energy on study that you have all your work to do before finals, but be 
sure you have enough left to join a few activities on campus, and to take 
an active part in social life. The Beanery and the Publications offices are 
wonderful places to meet people and to have fun working and playing with 
your fellow Techites.
Remember, if you keep your sense of humor and dont get a one track 
mind, you can really take advantage of the opportunities offered you during 
our first peacetime college year.
r' ~ lations
Tech is once more very nearly a peacetime campus. The Cut 
ry are once again crowded with students; the classrooms in 
TThe and Engineering are overflowing with Frosh; the fraternity men no 
longer have that haggard look which came only from searching for invisible 
rushees; several of the old profs are back on campus; and rumor has it 
that there are at least ten men enrolled in the drama department. The 
budgets of campus organizations are no longer curtailed or frozen by war 
time restrictions, and no group need feel the pinch of a shortage of per
sonnel since there are many old Techites back this year, and since a large 
number of our veterans have had experience in campus life elsewhere. 
In short, the only thing which can prevent this year from being one of 
the best in Carnegies history is that lack of interest in campus affairs 
which can no longer be attributed, as it has been in the past, to war-time 
strain.
Last spring Student Council, looking forward to more normal campus 
life, set up a system of Freshmen Regulations which they hoped would 
bring the traditional touches of the dink and the plaid tie back to campus 
and make the freshman year at Carnegie again worth remembering. Those 
regulations were printed in the handbook which every Tech student 
received last week at registration, and the punishments to be meted out 
for violations of those regulations are printed on page one of this publica
tion. The Student Council members have devoted a great deal of time and 
energy to the organization of this scheme. Their sole purpose in preparing 
vas to make your college life more enjoyable. It is now up to 
.t that program is carried out. Those of you who have been 
3r years that nothing ever goes on on campus can now have 
a part m maKing something very exciting happen, for freshman Fun Night 
promises to be more fun than anything seen around here in years. Those 
of you who have wailed about the loss of the old college spirit on campus 
can play a large part in reviving campus tradition which is a major part
continued on page 6
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the 
staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not 
to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
PHONE MAYFLOWER 2G00 PHONE SCHENLEY 4557
"HTID FOR NATIONAL ADVERTISING BY
al Advertising Service, Inc.
lege Publishers Representative 
.dison Ave. Stu York. N. Y. 
 Boston  Los Angeies  San Francisco
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-chief ........................SC. 6519
Business Manager  ........EM. 9424
Entered as second-class matter in the Pittsburgh Post Office under the Act of March 3, 1879.
Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination periods. 
Subscription Price $1.10 per year.
Editor ...........
Business Manager 
Managing Editor 
News Editor .....
Copy Editor ___
........ Clara Herron
. Harold Gottesman
........Augie Binder
Viary Jane H or ridge 
............ Boo Girts
Special Meeting 
September 30, 1945
The meeting was called to order at 
7:30 P. M.
Present: Messrs. Straka, Aisenberg,
Binder, Stine; Misses Irwin, Clark, Emmel.
Committee Reports:
Freshman Regulations:
Pursuant to the Executive Board action 
of June 7, 1945 Item 101-2 Section 5, the 
following administration of Freshman 
Regulations is recommended by the 
Freshmen Regulations and Orientation 
Committee to Student Council.
Chairman: Jo Anne Ciark.
Representatives:
Womens Dorm Council, Mary Lou Ashe.
Panhellenic Council, Lillian Simpson.
Interfraternity Council, Ralph Happe.
Cwens, Pat Baum.
Mens Dorm Council, Inactive.
MMCC Senate, Phoebe James.
Student Council, Esther Haushalter.
Alpha Phi Omega, President of APO. 
Duties of the Committee:
1. Take roll at all assemblies by the 
seat check method.
2. Act as an administrative power for 
enforcing Freshmen Traditions and Reg
ulations.
3. Make up Traditions Exam.
4. Sponsor Freshmen Fun Night.
5. Assist the Dean of Men in coordi
nating the work of other student groups 
now participating in Freshman Week.
Explanation of Committee as a Court.
If any upperclassman finds that a 
Freshman is disregarding the Regula
tions, then he or she may report the 
ireshman to the Court by using a card 
provided for this purpose that states the 
(1) offense, (2) offender, (3) upperclass
man that is reporting the offense, (4) 
the date and time of misdemeanor. These 
cards will be available in Skibo Inn 
and a box, locked, will be provided for 
the cards. Court will collect these 
cards every two weeks, summon the of
fender, and hold session a day later. 
Since regulations are of no use without 
enforcement, this method seems the most 
satisfactory way to deal with Freshmen 
that disregard the Regulations.
Courts Administrative Methods:
Freshmans first reported offense:
1. Given a warning and explanation of 
rules.
2. Grade of Traditions Exam raised an 
extra 5%.
3. Name held on Courts record.
Second offense:
1. Name held on record for Fun Night.
2. Passing grade in exam raised an
other 5%.
Third offense:
If it is a trivial offense and the Court, 
after deliberation, decides that the Fresh
man is not deliberately disregarding or 
refusing to abide by the Freshmen Reg
ulations, then the Freshman will again 
be held for Fun Night and his passing 
grade raised another 5%.
' Only those Freshmen who have passed 
the Traditions Examination and have 
properly observed the Freshman Regula
tions to the satisfaction of the Freshmen 
Regulations and Orientation Committee 
will be eligible to participate in any nonathletic activity, or social organization 
other than a fraternity for the first 
semester. Student Council also requests 
a recommendation from Intramural 
Board, Pan Hellenic Council, Inter-fra
ternity Council and Inter-honorary Coun
cil regarding the eligibility of students 
who have not complied with these Regu
lations to participate in their respective 
activities.
FRESHMAN FUN NIGHT
1. All-school gathering and dance spon
sored by Student Council and organized 
by the Freshman Regulations and Orien
tations Committee.
2. Purpose of fun night will be to ac
quaint upperclassmen more fully with 
Freshmen and for Freshmen to do some 
task to clear their record if they have 
been reported to court.
3. Penalty at Fun Night will be having 
groups of erring Freshmen sing Tech 
songs or lead Tech cheers or do snake 
dances, chanting, We are bad, bad 
Freshmen! The penalties will not be 
severe or humiliating but purely fun for 
everybody. The purpose of Fun Night is 
friendliness and fun.
4. Fun Night will be held after the
Traditions Exam and before the ReExam.
Mr. Aisenberg moved that the Regula
tions be accepted as readSocial Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg requested suggestions 
.for the Band to be secured for the Stu
dent Council Dance to be held Novem
ber 3, 1945. It was decided that Brad 
Hunt, Bernie Armstrong, Joey Simms, 
and Billy Leroy would be contacted. 
Elections Committee:
A general election must be held to re
place Marge Loeffler and Sue Crobaugh 
on Student Council; non-voting members 
wrill also be chosen at this election.
The meeting was adjourned at 10:15 
P. M.
Re poctfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin,
Secretary.
Special Meeting 
October 1, 1945
The meeting was called to order at 7:15 
P. M.
Present: Messrs. Straka, Aisenberg,
Binder, Stine; Misses Irwin, Emmel, 
Clark, and Haushalter.
COMMITTEE REPORTS:
Freshman Regulations:
Freshman Week was discussed and de
tails completed.
Social Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg reported that Brad Hunt 
was not available for November 3, 1945; 
the other three bands were available, 
however, and prices were to be investi
gated.
It was moved that Alpha Phi Omega 
be in charge of the Coke Stand at the 
Student Council Dance on November 3, 
1945.
Motion carried.
Mr. Aisenberg appointed Lucille Em
mel, Pinky Clark, and Augie Binder as 
members of the Social Committee. This 
was moved, seconded and carried.
Mr. Aisenberg proposed that if the 
Council deemed it necessary, each organ
ization listed below should hold an AllSchool Dance, retaining no profit and 
suffering no loss, but should do it as pay
ment for a place on campus:
Interfraternity Council 
Pan-hellenic Council 
Interhonorary Council 
Tec-vets
Mens Dorm Council 
Womens Dorm Council 
Citcom
Womens Guild 
Cwens
Womens Guild and Cwens would keep 
profits for Scholarship Fund.
A committee was appointed to discuss 
and investigate this proposal before the 
next meeting.
Publications Committee:
Mr. Binder read the names of the Pub
lications Editors:
Tartan: Editor, Clara Herron;
Business Manager, Harold Gottesman.
Thistle: Editor, Jean Lisle;
Business Manager, John Seipel.
Technical: Editor, Julia Randall;
Business Manager, Augie Binder.
Mr. Binder moved that the position of 
General Business Manager be abolished 
and the power of the Business Manager 
of each Publication be restored to its 
normal duties.
Motion carried.
It was moved that the Council recom
mends to the Executive Committee that 
the Scottie be retained as a publication 
on Carnegie Tech campus.
Motion carried.
It was moved that the Council recom
mend the Publications Committee to de
termine the Scottie editors and staff. 
Anyone interested in becoming a mem
ber of the staff should sign up on the 
lists posted on the Bulletin Boards.
Motion carried.
Special Committee:
Mr. Stine was appointed to investigate 
the details of the old Scotch and Soda 
Acts held at the various dances during 
peace time.
Points and Keys Committee:
Mr. Aisenberg was appointed as Chair
man of a committee composed of Bob 
Straka, Augie Binder, and Boyd Stine, to 
investigate a new Points System for men.
The meeting was adjourned at 10:15 
P. M.
Respectfully submitted,
Barbara Irwin,
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
RewGSie, Wet Point!
Summer Surgery Remodels 
Face Of Carnegie Campus
One day early this September, 
finding myself with nothing to do, I 
decided to take a walk through 
Schenley Park and look over the 
old C. I. T. campus. I went first to 
the place where the Canteen used 
to be to observe a moment of silence 
in memory of the departed hang
out. Such was my sorrow that it 
was quite a while before I noticed 
that the old Skibo Inn had been 
torn down also. I shed a few tears 
on the site of that noble building, so 
recently degenerated into a navy 
barber shop; but I quickly recovered 
from my sadness at the sight of men 
coming out of one of the mens 
dorms. Imagine, real civilian men 
going to Tech and living in Techs 
mens dorms! It was a revolutionary 
idea. On closer examination I dis
covered that some of the men were 
painters. It seems that most of the 
dormitories had to be painted and 
reconstructed after the sailors left. 
I wanted to go in and inspect the 
redecorations but I decided that 
Mrs. Yon might not approve.
Being now very happy about the 
idea of Tech men in Tech dorms, I 
thought I would go to the Carnegie 
Inn for a coke or a milk shake. An
other blow  it was closed. There 
was a sign on the door to the ef
fect that henceforth it would be 
open only in the mornings and 
evenings for dormitory students. 
This discouraged me a little but, 
since I was thirsty enough to drink 
water, I went down to Maggie 
Murph to get a drink at the water 
cooler on the first floor. There I 
found more painters, but no water 
cooler. So I climbed over paint cans 
and piles of furniture to Dr. Wat
kins office to see what was being 
painted and where he was hiding 
the water cooler. The cause of the 
aforementioned confusion was thus 
discovered: the offices were being 
redecorated. I also learned that two 
new water coolers were on order. 
Soon it became clear that things 
were not as bad as they could be.
Even the lukewarm water in the 
fountain was not as awful as the 
hot water that used to come out be
fore the drinking-water pipes were 
moved away from the hot-water 
pipes. Consoled by the fact that 
tepid water is not as bad as a cloud 
of steam for drinking purposes, I 
went on my way.
Next I strolled over to take a look 
at the Beanery. I went in the first 
door, climbed over more paint cans, 
and found myself in a very nice 
lounge; I inspected the bridge ta
bles and tried out several of the 
deep, soft armchairs. I thought this 
would be quite a convenient place 
to hold club meetings or play an odd 
game of bridge between classes. 
Some layout, I remarked enthu
siastically to a nearby painter. Yep. 
Its for the faculty, he informed 
me. Frankly, I expected as much all 
along; so I dragged myself out of 
my chair and left.
The next door I tried brought bet
ter results. The main cafeteria look
ed much less like a barn than for
merly and the Coffee Shop, or small 
cafeteria, was really very nicely 
decorated. I especially liked the off
set behind the glass brick partition 
which, When the folding door is put 
up, can be used for small meetings. 
I discovered also that the redecorat
ed Beanery will now be called the 
Skibo Inn. Incidentally, Skibo 
should be pronounced Skeebo. The 
Carnegie Inn when first built was 
supposed to be called Skibo. How
ever, the small wooden building 
right off campus was given that 
name. Now that the little Skibo-has 
been razed the Beanery will be sole 
possessors of that renowned title. 
But the first two were pronounced 
Skybo, not Skeebo, and I fear that 
the third attempt at proper pro
nunciation will bring the same re
sults as the other two.
My explorations over and my 
curiosity satisfied, I directed my 
steps homeward and bade farewell 
to C. I. T.
9n KUcJu
Private First Class Maurice L. 
Moffett Jr. who graduate from Car
negie Tech in 1932 has been award
ed the Medical Badge in recognition 
of his exemplary performance as a 
medical aid man under actual com
bat during the Philippine (Luzon) 
Campaign. He has also earned the 
Asiatic Pacific Ribbon with one bat
tle star and the Philippine Libera
tion Ribbon.
Major Sam S. Williams of the 
class of 35 was awarded the bronze 
star upon the recommendation of 
his superior officer for meritorious 
achievement in the performance of 
service.
Charles R. Helwig who attended 
Tech advanced to chief pharmacists 
mate at the Atlantic Fleets anti
aircraft training and test center, 
Dam Neck, Va. He also helped put 
into commission the advancjji am
phibious training base at Bizerte, 
Tunisia.
George H. Freyvogel, who attend
ed Tech for six years, is serving with
Major Sam S. Williams 
the Navy as a pharmacists mate on 
a Pacific Island.
Captain E. F. Losco who received 
his Master of Science Degree from 
Carnegie Tech is executive officer of 
the Ammunition Test Branch of the 
worlds largest Ordnance Research 
and Development Center at Aber
deen Proving Grounds.
Fraternity Rushing 
Now In Full Swing
Sorority rushing officially opened 
last Wednesday, October 4, and will 
continue through Monday, October 
15. During this specified period 
there is to be no social contact be
tween sorority girls and sopho
mores.
All preferential bidding shall be 
handled through the Dean of Wom
en. The fraternities shall hand into 
the Deans office at 9:30 a. m. Octo
ber 15, 1945, the list of girls whom 
they wish to bid in order of prefer
ence. The rushees must also sub
mit their preference on October 15 
by 10:00 a. m. If they fail to turn 
in their preference at this time, they 
must wait for a one month period. 
The lists of fraternities and rushees 
will be matched in the Deans office. 
The results will be given to the fra
ternities the evening of the fifteenth 
or early the sixteenth. Thereafter, 
open rushing will continue.
The following events have yet to
take place:
Kappa Alpha Theta Party Thursday, Oct. 11
Kappa Kappa Gamma Party Friday, Oct. 12
Sigma Kappa Party Saturday. Oct. 13
Alpha Epsilon Phi Party Saturday, Oct. 13
Alpha Epsilon Phi, the Chi Ome
gas, Tri Delts, and Delta Gammas 
will have their teas on Sunday, Oc
tober 14. The teas for the other fra
ternities were held on Sunday, Oc
tober 7.
The prices for each fraternity are
as follows:
Initiation Pledge
Fraternity Fee Active Doe* Fee
Alpha Epsilon Phi------$58 $ 5,75 mo. $7.50
Chi Omega .................... 50 2.00 mo. 15.00
Tri Delta ......................... 50 40.00 yr. 5.00
Delta Gamma ................ 50 3.00 mo. 10.00
Kappa Alpha Theta... 55 5.00 mo. 5.00
Kappa Kappa Gamma. 35 3.60 mo. 8.00
Sigma Kappa ................ 25 35.00 yr. 7.00
Kappa Alpha Theta, Alpha Ep
silon Phi, Delta Gamma, Delta Del
ta Delta, and Chi Omega also offer 
a life subscription to their respec
tive fraternity magazine included in 
the initiation fee. Sigma Kappa and 
Kappa Kappa Gamma offer the life 
subscription to their fraternity mag
azine, included in the initiation fee, 
but the cost of the fraternity pin is 
not included.
A FLIGHT 
THAT NEVER 
LEAVES THE GROUND
A bomber crew needs training as a team. And now 
those hazards which are too dangerous for air-borne 
drill can be duplicated on the ground. This is made 
possible by an electronic flight trainer perfected by 
Bell Telephone Laboratories scientists for the Navy.
At remote . controls the instructor follows the 
flight, sets up various dangerous conditions, coor
dinates the crews reactions.
Tubes glow, switches click much as they do in a 
telephone exchange, to duplicate such flight perils as 
icing, fouled fuel lines, conked motors. It is the 
science behind the telephone that here perforins an
other new service to the Nation.
BELL TELEPHONE SYSTEM
"Service to the Nation in Peace and IT ar'

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1946
Sports
Varsity Soccer
This year the first varsity sport to 
start is soccer. The athletic office has 
obtained games with five other col
leges. They are Allegheny College, 
Theil, Grove City, Oberlin, and 
Frostburg Teachers College. Three 
of these games are to be played here, 
two away. The first will be played 
at Allegheny College at Meadville, 
Pa., on October 20. Pat OConnor, 
former Tech soccer coach, will again 
be at the helm. First practice was 
held last night in the bowl. All men 
interested in getting a varsity let
ter in soccer should report to the 
bowl at 4:30-5 as soon as possible.
Varsity Basketball
For the past two years Techs only 
major varsity sport has been bas
ketball. This will continue at least 
until next year. The first meeting 
was held last night, Coach Hannum 
again being in charge. All potential 
candidates for the basketball team 
who have not already notified Coach 
Hannum of their intentions to go 
out for the squad should get in touch 
with him as soon as possible. Practice 
will begin on October 15, and will be 
held three times a week for the first 
few weeks thereafter. Practice will 
then be held every evening, Mondav thT^ngh Friday.
ral Football
Attention fraternities, dormitories 
' and any students interested in form
ing an independent team for the in
tramural six man touch football 
league! Applications, which may be 
obtained in the athletic office, must 
be in by Wednesday night, October 
10. The league will start competi
tion on October 15. Men who are 
interested in officiating at these 
games should get in touch with Mr. 
Risedorph as soon as possible. Last 
year the championship was won by 
the Kappa Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
team. Lets go fellows. Make the 
competition better than it has ever 
been.
Publications Return
Gone Are the Publication Offices 
from Industries Hall! Gone is the 
staff! Gone the delapadated type
writers! Only the birds remain to 
haunt the barn-like room which was 
the home of the Tartan, Scottie, 
Technical, Thistle and Plaid.
For the past two years the up
per floors of Carnegie Union have 
been used to house lush bits of Car
negie femininity. But those days are 
gone too. All the signs of dorm life 
are goneno lipstick, no perfume, 
no unmentionables lie scattered 
about. Thats right
The publications are back in the 
Carnegie UnionCarnegie Tech is 
on its way home from the war. The 
first out-post has been taken. All 
the chaos of war seems to be reflect
ed in the present condition of said 
offices, but do not fear, its just call
ed reconversion . . .
During the past twenty-four 
months the editors, reporters, and 
bridge players had to endure all the 
hardships of out-door life to bring 
CIT the news, but now they can 
once more enjoy their snug quarters 
in the Union. (Providing the coal 
holds out this winter, but then the 
Publications people are really a 
very ingenious lot!) Other than the 
building and heating facilities 
everything remains the same  the 
typewriters mentioned in para
graph one, the paper, the files, the 
same dictionaries, the same people, 
and the same dirt and dust . . . and 
still no waste basket!
Faculty Scholarship
A contribution has been made by 
the faculty to the Faculty Memorial 
Scholarship Fund in memory of 
Miss Marguerite Abbott of the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College 
who died on June 30 after a long ill
ness. This fund, which has been es
tablished to perpetuate the memory 
of deceased faculty members, is 
maintained by contributions from 
the faculty and from former stu
dents and friends of members whose 
spirit may live on and whose service 
may continue in death, as in life.
Delta Upsilon, Pi KA 
Reopen Campus Houses
Activity on the Tech campus this 
semester has already reached a level 
far exceeding anything of the last 
three years. Thus, it is quite fitting 
that this term should mark the re
opening of two of Carnegies war 
darkened fraternity houses. Both 
Delta Upsilon and Pi Kappa Alpha 
are now operating regularly.
The DU house has been open 
for the past three weeks, the occu
pants having returned early to get 
their place in good condition. It is 
now as good as new, and new furni
ture is expected late this month. 
Thus far the members have had 
three rushing dances, a smoker, and 
an alumni dinner.
The Pi Kappa Alpha house open
ed officially last Monday with a 
membership of 23 under Harry S. 
Ransom the president. Rushing has 
been regular, and a social calendar 
is now being drawn up.
Pittsburgh Playhouse 
Presents Blithe Spirit
Blithe Spirit will be the second 
in a series of nine productions on 
the schedule of the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse this season. This play, a 
comedy about the frolic of a ghost, 
is one of Noel Cowards lighter pro
ductions.
Robert Gill is directing the plays 
which are being presented during 
this first peace time season. Hand 
in Glove by Charles K. Freemont 
and Gerald Savory, a murder mys
tery, will be the seasons third play 
and will run during the month of 
November. December will bring 
The Devil Passes by Benn W. 
Levy.
The entire schedule of produc
tions has been made up with the en
joyment of the theater goer in 
mind.
Notice
All those interested in Intercol
legiate and Intramural Wrestling 
should report to Coach Alexander 
on Mondays, Wednesdays, and 
Thursdays from 4:30 to 6:00 at the 
Gym. 9/
..he loves me!
Letter to the Editor
Dear Editor:
The National Poetry Association 
cordially invites the students of 
your College to submit manuscripts 
for the Annual Anthology of College 
Poetry.
Closing date for the submission of 
manuscripts for this years Anthol
ogy is November 5th. There are no 
charges or fees for inclusion of work 
in the Anthology. The recognition 
afforded by publication will reflect 
definite credit on your school, as 
well as afford satisfaction to those 
who see their work in print.
Each effort must be written or 
typed on one side of a single sheet 
and must bear the authors name, 
home address, and college. Manu
scripts should be sent to the Na
tional Poetry Association, 3210 Sel
by Avenue, Los Angeles, 34, Califor
nia. As space is limited, more favor
able consideration is given by the 
judges to shorter poems.
We hope that your school will be 
well represented in the 1945 Anthol
ogy of College Poetry.
Cordially yours,
Dennis Hartman, Secretary,
WHATS A PICTURE 
WITHOUT A ROOM?
We reverse the procedure to suggest that 
we have a large collection of color repro
ductions of OLD MASTERS, MODERNS 
and CONTEMPORARIES, also MARINES 
and SPORTING PRINTS that will just 
dress up the room. Reasonable.
Oestreichers
1208 th Ave. (Dept. 15) New York 1, N. Y.
Compliments
sf
Reidborg 
Bros.
BOTTLED UNDEB AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.minim

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1945THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
. . . Summer On the Campus . . .
Humm, Messy Isnt It?
We Have Returned.
Relaxation Why So Serious, Mary Lou?
Dirt Colymn
The only intelligent comment that 
anyone could possibly make when 
one is staring an Underwood square
ly in the face and has to pound out 
a Dirt Colyum or reasonable 
facsimile thereof is Here We Go 
Again. Who are we to argue with 
intelligent comments, so Here We 
Go Again . . ,.
People are talking about: Scottie 
Atkinson, Jean Price, Ada Bucy, Lil 
Simpson and Rhoda Mears being en
gaged (not to each other, stupid!)
. . . Adele Lipkin, Audrey Lawr
ence and Norma Caplan being mar
ried . . . Prissy Dodge waiting not
so patiently in New York for her 
birth certificate before she can go 
overseas with the USO . . . Kay 
Cook in Europe with The Late 
Christopher Bean . . . Mary
Louise McCall still wearing Kan
as  TX pin . . . Duke Bolton 
causing a mere sensation in Kahns 
and the Beanery when he casually 
drops in . . . Paul Schucker, Don 
Poskin, Art Naylor, Bill Purtell, 
Jack South all home on furloughs 
. . . Kenny Lippman and Earle 
Young leaving for the services . . . 
Ensign Jay Smith (formerly of 
continued on page 6
A Wartime Tradition Passes.
With the end of the summer tri
mester the accelerated program at 
Carnegie Tech may have come to 
an end. Those few individuals who 
attended this summer session will 
not be sorry to see it go since it was 
by far the dullest trimester in the 
school. There was no Canteen, no 
Tartan, no women, no nuthin. A few 
things did happen however, and 
these events are listed in the order 
in which they occured to the writer.
On July 7 the Summer Student 
Council scheduled an all school 
dance. Bill LeRoys orchestra sup
plied the music for the sixty odd 
couples who attended the dance, 
and everybody had a good time.
During the month of July the 
junior and senior engineers held a 
picnic at North Park. During the
day some played tennis, some went 
swimming, and the rest loafed. In 
the evening there was a bull session 
followed by singing around a camp
fire. In case you are wondering, 
there was free food for all, with ac
cessories.
The engineers took time out from 
their studies this summer to operate 
an intramural softball tournament. 
It was composed of six teams with 
both independents and fraternities 
taking part.
They battled long and hard in the 
depths of the bowl until the inde
pendents finally won out.
It was decided last spring to close 
the canteen this summer along with 
the grill, and leave the few persons 
on campus to eat in the Inn while 
the new luncheonroom was under
And the New Skibo Takes Over.
construction. This meant that the 
Inn was to serve the few hundred 
engineers and the members of the 
faculty. This summer nearly every
one was scheduled to eat at 12:00 
oclock. This included the engineers, 
faculty, men in the Westinghouse 
sales course, and, for six weeks, 
members of the fine arts summer 
classes. If a person had a class at 
1:00, it was possible for him to get 
to the lunch cbunter at ten minutes 
before one.
There were many ways to get 
around this problem. Some people 
went to the cafeteria in Carnegie In
stitute, some brought their lunches, 
while a few hardy souls went across 
commuters lane into the Tuck 
Shop of the Height of Ignorance 
in order to further damage their 
stomach linings.
V-J day came between mid-se
mester and final exams. One might 
expect that the engineers were hard
at work preparing for the next days 
recitations. Sorry to relate, how
ever, the engineers took a vacation 
just as if they were normal people. 
The school was closed officially for 
two days, but quite a few students 
did not show up again until the fol
lowing Monday. Those classes that 
were held on Friday were lackadasical when not unattended.
The school was not neglected com
pletely amid the celebrating. At 
eight sharp there assembled in I. H. 
232 some thirty students interested 
in electing a Scottie staff. The stu
dent body had been given permis
sion by the executive board to put 
out one issue with the fate of future 
Scotties based on the results of the 
test issue. After electing the staff 
the persons present proceeded on 
to other forms of amusement.
Nothing else of importance oc
curred during the summer, and the 
engineers are certainly glad to see 
the fall semester begin.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, OCTOBER 9, 1945
Members Added and Promotions 
Made on Carnegie Tech Faculty
During the long five months vaca
tion, many changes have taken place 
on the Carnegie Campus. All three 
schools have acquired new staff 
members. The new additions in per
sonnel give promise of new ideas 
for an excellent start on our post
war program.
In the Engineering school we find 
L. B. Siegfried head of the Printing 
Department; Stanley Hlasta, Assist
ant Professor of Printing; Everard 
M. Williams, Associate Professor of 
Electrical Engineering, W. R. Caywood Jr., Instructor of Electrical 
Engineering; Claude R. Schwob, As
sistant Professor of Chemistry; and 
Joseph J. Martin, Instructor of 
Chemical Engineering as new addi
tions.
The Coal Research Laboratory has 
added Benjamin Epstein to the staff.
The new members of the Human
istic and Social Studies Department 
are Sherman P. Barnes, Assistant 
Professor of History; Richard G. 
Chrisman, Assistant Professor of 
Economics; and John Steele Hen
derson, Instructor of Economics.
B. Kenneth Johnstone, Director of 
the College of Fine Arts; Mrs. Oleta 
A. Benn, Assistant Professor Pub
lic School Music; Nikolai Lopatnikoff, Assistant Professor, Musical 
Composition; Patricia Mahon, As
sistant Professor, Voice; George 
Alexander McCalmon, Assistant 
Professor, Drama; and Talbot PearA -sistant Professor, Drama, 
the list for the College of 
s.
i^ewcumers to Margaret Morri
son are Vivian Crow, Professor of
Home Economics; Bethel Maxine 
Caster, Instructor of Home Econom
ics and Marget Joyce Spear, also an 
Instructor of Home Economics; Al
pha Black Kiebler, Instructor of 
Accounting; Erma T. Meyerson, In
structor in Social Work; and Mar
garet C. Munyer, Instructor of Gen
eral Science.
In the Libraries about campus we 
find Mrs. Robert Murray, and Mary 
Louise Schultz. Sarah K. Vann has 
been made Assistant Professor of 
the Science Library.
There have also been many pro
motions over the summer. Charles 
S. Barrett is Professor of Metal
lurgy, Gerhard Derge is now Asso
ciate Professor of Metallurgical En
gineering, Immanuel Estermann, 
Professor of Physics, Malcolm F. 
Hawkes, Assistant Professor of Met
allurgical Engineering, Davis S. Mc
Kinney, Associate Professor of 
Chemistry, Carl W. Muhlenbruch 
Jr. Associate Professor of Civil En
gineering, Turner L. Smith, Asso
ciate Professor of Mathematics, 
Guido H. Stempel, Associate of 
Chemistry, Robert York, Jr., Asso
ciate Professor of Chemical Engi
neering.
Russel Bowers is now Associate 
Professor of Economics, Donald 
Goodfellow, Assistant Professor of 
English, Mrs. Gladys Schmitt, As
sistant Professor of English, Robert 
L. Lepper, Associate Professor of 
Design, Mrs. Margaret H. Ely, Asso
ciate Professor of Secretarial Stud
ies, and Mrs. Thelma Shelly Bessey, 
Assistant Professor of Physics.
Dirt Colymn
continued from page 3 
Pitt) was around campus last week; 
will enroll in the Drama School 
after he finishes being an ensign 
. . . Jack Woodside, Tom Pratt
(both married), Earl Lewis, Merle 
Wolff and Elmer DOrazzio are 
home again ... By the way, Jack 
South has been working on the 
atomic bomb . . . Doris Fast around 
school for a few days . . . Ruth 
Guberman back in the Drama 
School and telling some poor engi
neering freshman, Pardon me, but 
your differential calculus is show
ing . . . Alice Skirpin back in 
Margaret Morrison . . . Lucy Sei
bert and June Shannon back after
spending the summer in New York 
in a My Sister Eileen atmosphere 
. . . the obvious fact that there are 
30 more boys on campus than girls 
. . . Ruth Pivorotto dancing at the 
Freshmen Reception . . .
Last week was registration (you 
should live so long) and nothing too 
exciting happened. Next week, 
things will certainly pick up and 
then the Dirt Colyum can concen
trate on other things beside who is 
home, who was home, when, why, 
who got married, who is engaged, 
and things like that there. Well 
really start in earnest next time. So 
until then, lets let well enough 
alone and leave it go at that.
Compliments f
William Watson Smith
Attorney at Law
Seniors Sign Up For 
1946 Thistle Pictures
Jean Lisle, editor of the Thistle, 
has announced that the pictures of 
this years graduating class will be 
taken October 16, 17, and 18 by Gimbels Photo Reflex Studio. It is re
quested that the girls wear sweaters 
and pearls and that the boys wear 
dark coats, white shirts, and plain 
neckties when they report for the 
pictures.
European Action Film 
True Glory, Now Showing
General Dwight Eisenhowers 
The True Glory, one of the most 
action-packed films ever made, can 
now be seen in Pittsburgh. The pic
ture was made from over five and 
a half million feet of film shot in 
the battle for western Europe by 
cameramen of eight nations. The 
cast is taken from all the nations of 
the worldfrom plain soldiers in 
the ranks to high ranking generals 
such as Eisenhower, who gives the 
opening address, and includes Pat
ton, Bradley, Hodges, Hitler, and 
Rommel.
It is packed with more realistic 
drama than one would find in a 
dozen fictional films. The audience 
will not only see the soldiers of the 
western allies in action but will 
hear them talk in a great many in
terviews with the common G. I.
Tau Beta Pi Chooses 
Officers for New Year
On Thursday, October 4, Tau Beta 
Pi, national engineering and sci
ence honorary fraternity, elected 
officers to lead it for the coming 
year. Those elected were: John
Michener, President; Ben Schwartz, 
Vice-President; Robert Noyes, Re
cording Secretary; Louis Umbach, 
Treasurer; August Binder, Corres
ponding Secretary; and Andrew 
Pepper, Interhonorary Representa
tive.
Editorial...
continued from page 2 
of the true college atmosphere. If 
you do not cooperate, if you drag 
along in the some old disinterested 
way, if you dont report every fresh
man violation you see on campus, it 
will be your fault that Carnegie 
campus life does not recover from 
its war-time slump. We realize that 
until now no provision has been 
made for reporting violations, but 
already, upperclassmen have had an 
opportunity to cooperate with Reg
ulations. The Freshmen are requir
ed to speak to upperclassmen on 
campus in order that they may be
come better acquainted with their 
fellow students. It has been reported 
by many Frosh that their greetings 
go unanswered. This unfriendly atti
tude on the part of upperclassmen is 
discouraging to the frosh and may 
cause them to be lax in their obedi
ence to all regulations. Therefore, 
you can be of assistance if you speak 
to every freshman that speaks to 
you and report the names of those 
who dont.
The freshman regulations are not 
intended to be a burden to the fresh
man and the punishments for viola
tions are not so serious that you 
need feel like a fiend for reporting 
insubordinate frosh, so when the 
cards and the boxes are made avail
able by Council, do your part in 
reviving Carnegie Tech tradition by 
turning in the names of every fresh
man you see who does not abide by 
Student Councils rules.
FOR SALE
TUXEDOExcellent condition. 
Trousers 34", waist 31". $18.00
C. T. Dierber, 816 Bayridge Ave. 
LE. 6449
Unite
PRODUCTS
._N
DRUG STORES
Reliable Prescription Service
