! T F' fLL
3 C(!P J r s111 A . I
1
o r-c/
?cpnri
INJvJ
oJ
VOL. VII. No. 111VOL.IN. oL2,N,9,. ET R.FMLEDEIAh eN,,2a9OIMh e.LL2ADrVLNVt.F.na.O 12, 1912.
LETTER FROM DEAN LEETE
The Tartan received a letter from Dean 
Leete and prints it with much pleasure. 
All the students will do well to read this 
letter carefully, to think over the points 
discussed therein, and to apply in their 
daily life the principles advanced. We 
have a long road to travel, and high aims 
to live up to here at Carnegie, and by put
ting into operation Dean Leetes recom
mendations we can shorten the road and 
sooner reach the ends for which we are 
working.
To the Editor of The Tartan:
At the banquet tendered Mr. Whitman 
by the citizens of New York in recognition 
of his courageous and successful battle to 
bring punishment upon the allied forces 
of the underworld and the police, the Dis
trict Attorney said, The issue for the 
City of New York is not whether it is 
better or wors,e than London or 
Paris or Berlin or Chicagobut whether 
it is the best city we can make it. That 
is an exacting standard for the measure' 
of achievement, but it is the only just one. 
For, cities have different conditions to 
contend with, different problems to solve, 
different facilities for their solution. What 
is reasonably efficient government in one 
city may be very far from praiseworthy 
in another.
If we should adapt Mr. Whitmans 
standard to this Institute it would mean: 
The issue for Tech is, not whether it is 
better or worse than Massachusetts Tech, 
or Cornell, or Sheffield, or any other in
stitution, but whether it is the best school 
we can make it. This standard provides 
as exacting and as just a measure of effi
ciency for an educational institution as it 
does for citiesIt is exacting because it 
substitutes in place of comparison with 
other imperfect institutions an absolute 
standard for a measure of efficiency, to 
attain,which wemust realize ones greatest 
possibilities. It is a just standard, be
cause it recognizes that our conditions, 
our problems and our facilities for their* 
solution are different from those of any 
other institution and that our claim to 
success depends upon our efficiency in using 
our facilities to meet those conditions and 
problems. To reproduce any one of those 
institutions might be impossible and cer
tainly would be inadvisable. In short, 
this absolute standard substitutes for a 
finite model an infinite ideal, for when we 
realize our present possibilities their vety 
accomplishment will have opened up new 
opportunities.
Let us apply that absolute standard to 
one or two of our phases of work--In ath
letics we are accustomed to judge our 
success by comparing the score of our 
teams with the scores of our competitors 
or with the records of other institutions 
not on our schedule without adequate 
recognition of the different conditions pre
vailing at these institutions. The abso
lute standard would make these the de
termining points: Have the students of
greatest athletic ability come out for the 
teams? Have they worked hard and train
ed faithfully? Have they sunk their own 
individuality in the welding of the team? 
Have they played their hardest and has 
there been at the same time no blemish 
on their sportsmanship? Have they been 
good losers as well as good winners? Has 
every member of the student body been 
back of the team with encouragement 
and moral support? If these questions 
can be answered affirmatively, then by the 
absolute standard the season has been a 
success, no matter what the ratio'of vic
tories and defeats. Of course we want 
victories when victories come fairly. And 
more and more victories will come in the 
future if we but hold steadfastly to the 
policy of doing our very best in the present. 
It is this ideal of the absolute standard 
which I hope will pervade our athletics 
in the future as it has in the past, j
In scholarship we are apt to measure 
our success by comparing our work with 
the man next us. If we have the twothird credits which are set as the standard 
for advancement, we are not apt to be 
disturbed if we fall short of reaching the 
mark of the best scholarship we might 
attain. By the absolute standard the 
man who is content with merit work when 
he might have done honor work has failed, 
and the man who has by his utmost effort 
just managed to do credit wrork has suc
ceeded, for the one has fallen short of his 
possibilities while the other has gloriously 
met them. It is this spirit of true scholar
ship which I hope to see developed in this 
School.
You will note that I have chosen one ex
ample from sport (which should be play) 
and one from study (which should be 
work) and that in both instances the com
parative standard is ineffective and unjust 
and the absolute standard is efficient and 
just. While sometimes helpful, we agree 
with Mrs. Malaprop that, in the main, 
comparisons are odorous. The real issue 
is to see that these schools in every branch 
of work or play are the best we can make 
them.
Just one more applicat;on of the abso
lute standard. There has been much 
written and spoken about college spirit.
One of the best definitions is that which 
is given by Ulrich von Hutten at the old 
University of Greifeswald, 400 years ago, 
in the phrase Gemeingeist unter freien 
Geistern, Comradeship among free spir
its. Just what does this definition mean? 
In entering any industrial organization one 
"finds himself expected to do two things. 
First, he must do well his own work, those 
duties which are definitely outlined to 
him and for which he is individually re
sponsible. Second, he is expected to 
fit in to the organization, to do his part 
in team play, to do what is somewhat 
vaguely described as making himself gen
erally useful. If he does his work solely 
as an individual, with no appreciation of 
the responsibility resting upon him to pro
mote the general interest of the organ;zation, he never finds advancement and 
usually finds himself looking for another 
position, for in an efficient organization 
the second class of duties is regarded a 
important as the first. In a school organi
zation the same conditions of efficiency 
exist. The students first duty (and pleas
ure) should be to do well the work laid 
upon him as an individual. If he is to 
have comradeship among free spirits 
he will also bear his share of the common
 burden, not from mere duty but from 
choice, like a true comrade. This does 
not mean blind obedience to mob dicta
tion, for he is to be a free spirit. It means 
more than vocal gymnastics at the frantic 
beseeching of a frenzied cheer leader. 
Just what it does mean wdl vary in differ
ent institutions and with different individ
uals in the same institution; but for all it 
means being in ones place in the ranks in 
all movements for the good of the institu
tion and of its students. It means willing 
service for the general welfare. This 
absolute standard of the measure of col
lege spirit lays upon each student the 
responsibility of doing his best to make 
his college the best of all institutions.
(Signed) JOHN H. LEETE
CARNEGIE MECHANICAL ENGIN
EERING SOCIETY
and a rising vote of thanks was given the 
speaker for his helpful talk. The Mechan
icals are very fortunate in having gradu
ates at work near Pittsburgh who are will
ing to devote some ol their time to the 
society in order that we may learn some
thing about practical work and the rela
tion of theory to practice.
The fellows who do not attend these 
meetings do not know what they are miss
ing. for if you ask anyone who wTas at the 
last meeting whether it was worth while 
to come he will tell you that he learned 
more in a couple of hours than he would 
if he had stayed at home to grind out 
Mathematics or Mechanics. If you really 
make up your mind to come you will find 
time to do all that work which We krow 
you have to do, some other time. This 
meeting takes only a couple of hours each 
month and how much more time do you 
waste on things which have far less practi
cal value. Come otit for your own sake, 
for the sake of good fellowship, and for 
the good of the C. M. E. S.
CAMERA CLUB ORGANIZES
Last Friday afternoon the Camera Club 
held its first meeting and elected the fol
lowing officers: President, Engstrom; Vice 
President, Connell; Secretary and Treas
urer, Wood. The work to be done by the 
Club was talked over and a definite pro-, 
gram for future meetings arranged.
The next meeting is to be held in Room' 
125, Industries Building, on Tuesday af
ternoon, December 17th, at 4:30. The 
speaker for the day is to be Connell. The 
Camera Club desires to extend an invita
tion to be present to all students interested 
in photography.
SENIORS ADOPT HONOR SYSTEM
A short business meeting held on Wed
nesday, December 4th, was followed by a 
talk on the open-hearth process, by Mr. 
McCollum, a graduate of the 1910 class of 
Night Mechanicals, now connected with* 
the Carnegie Steel Company. The sub
ject for the evening From the Mines to 
Open Hearth was very well handled. 
The speaker showed familiarity with all 
branches of the work and illustrated his 
talk with pictures, drawings, and data 
sheets. The tests described revealed to 
us the fact that all our school work has 
some practical application, and showed 
that in some cases a consideration of small 
details is absolutely necessary for accurate 
results. The interest of the society was 
shown by the discussion which followed
After considerable discussion of details 
in several recent meetings of the Senior 
Class of Science, the new honor system has 
been accepted and will go into effect as 
soon as the vote of one man who was r ot 
at the last meeting has been cast, The 
system, as arranged this year has already 
been approved by 'he Faculty, and* is 
essentially as follows: There shall be a
student senate consisting of seven n tn, 
one from each section, who shall pass 
on all cases which come up for considera
tion. There shall be no Faculty sup* rvision of examinations or quizzes. If 
any man is seen cribbing he is to he 
reported to the senate, and they, after 
hearing the case, will declare him innocent 
or guilty; if two of the seven vote for inr ocent he shall be so declared. If guilty, the 
matter shall be taken up by the faculty. 
The honor system also does away with 
roll call at classes, but if any man mal es 
cutting habitual, he shall he reported to 
the senate.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
Published weekly by the Undergraduates 
of the Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Business communications should be 
addressed to the BUSINESS EDITOR; 
all articles and other communications 
should be sent to the EDITOR-IN-CHIEF.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES 
Yearly $1.00 5c per Copy
Entered in the Post Office of Pitts
burgh as second class matter.
PITTSBURGH, PA., DEC. 12, 1912.
BOARD OF EDITORS. 
Donald D. Mitchell, 13.Editor-in-Chief 
G Guy Kelcey, 14.. Business Editor
C B. Kline, 13..........Athletic Editor
Eugene Dowling, 09..Alumni Editor 
Albert E. Ball, 13.... Science Editor
A. H. Good, 14............Design Editor
Guy Elliott, 13.... Industries Editor
Margaret H. Webb, 14..................
........................M. M. C. S. Editor
W. H. Searight, 15. Exchange Editor
Charles E. Gilson, 14.....................
..................Assistant News Editor
W, I. Wilson, '16.............................
Assistant to the Athletic Editor
MERRY CHRISTMAS
wishing you a Happy New Year, begin
ning with a big dinner from which may 
you suffer no bad after effects. Heres
to you!
To the ladies in our midst, greetings! 
May you have a Merry Christmas and 
find what you wish for on the tree, be it 
the proverbial husband or the more mod
ern vote. You in your School are doing 
a work which some fair day shall be re
cognized. Until that day, heres how!
And so we close this large, wholesale, 
bountiful wish by wishing to all those not 
specifically called by name, A Merry 
Christmas! May you go upon your vaca
tion and get from it what you go for, be it 
work or play, returning with a new com
prehension of and love for the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology.
signia obtained was of the same design 
formerly submitted and not approved.
(Signed) L. E. GRISWOLD, 
President Student Board.
THE BAND INSIGNIA
Before the next issue of The Tartan is 
run from the press (printing) to the eager, 
waiting press of students, Christmas will 
have come and all the good boys and girls 
will have hung up their stockings for their 
just reward. So we beg, ladies and gentle
men, to be a little previous and wish a 
Merry Christmas to all our friends; not 
only to those who are friendly to us, but 
to all to whom we are friendly. May 
one and all extract from a bulging stock
ing that which they most desire, and may 
one and all turn again, when the School 
bell rings, to do the best that lies within 
their pow7er for their Alma Mater, the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Merry Christmas to the Class of 1912, 
a&d congratulations upon the starting of a 
work so well worth while! Long may 
they set the pace and long may the Classes 
to come follow in their footsteps. In 
giving to the class below them a generous 
Scholarship, they have shown additional 
proof of their worth. Carnegie Tech is 
proud of her youngest grad."and desires 
to say so.
--o-- .
Merry Christmas to the Class of 1913! 
You, gentlemen, are to be congratulated 
upon having in your number so many 
men deemed worthy of receiving the Class 
of 1912 Scholarship. You give rise to the 
hope that the example of the class ahead 
of you will not be neglected and that you 
too can be expected to carry forward the 
work of your Alma Mater after you have 
left her doors.
To the combined Faculty A Merry 
Christmas! You have labored long and 
hard and, although you do not always 
think so, we appreciate it muchly. Heres
The student body has been awTare that 
some form of insignia was to be awarded 
to the band. It has heard of late much 
discussion as to the form of insignia select
ed, and in order to put the case before the 
students The Tartan is very glad to print 
three letters it has received. The first is 
from L. E. Griswold, President of the 
Student Board; the second is from Frank 
S. Crawford, President of the Seannachie 
Society; and the third is from Jas. A. 
Welker, Manager of the Band in the sea
sons 1910-11 and 1911-12. The first of 
these letters, Mr. Griswolds, give the facts 
from the Student Activities Committees 
side, and tells of the conditions under 
which the money for the insignia was given 
to the Band; the second letter, Mr. Craw
fords, expresses the views held by the 
Seannachie Society, a society made up of 
men from all the schools who have been 
prominent in student affairs, and the third, 
Mr. Welkers, gives the Bands side of the 
question. The letters are as follows:
To the Editor of The Tartan:
Considerable comment has followed the 
appearance of the new Band insignia. The 
facts regarding this insignia follow':
The Student Activities Committee voted 
to appropriate a certain sum of money for 
the provision of an insignia for the band, 
the sum to depend somewhat upon the 
nature, of the insignia.
The committee instructed this money to 
be paid over when a satisfactory design 
was submitted.
The officers of the band at this time were 
unable to submit a design which did not 
meet serious criticism.
There are two conditions imposed in 
the submission of this design.
1. That it should be a design suitable 
for a band.
2. That it should not be too similar to 
the Athletic C
The design submitted to the Athletic 
authorities met with serious criticism.
The same design submitted to the Ath
letic authorities was referred to the Direc
tor. His suggestion was to have Mr. 
OBrien of the Applied Design School con
sulted and that three designs be submitted.
Nothing further was done about the 
insignia, nor were further designs sub
mitted.
The Student Activities Committee 
granted a sum of money to the band to be 
spent for an approprite insigma. The in
To the Editor of The Tartan:
Today, the writer heard of a certain 
insignia worn by one of the members of 
the Carnegie Band. It was reported to be 
composed of a round plaid C, trimmed 
in gold with a lyre in the center and mount
ed on a blue background. On inquiry it 
seems that the insignia is not yet in any 
sense official but that the band hopes to 
make it official. The insignia was worn 
on a sweater in the same manner as a 
Varsity athletic C is worn.
The appearance of this insignia has 
provoked much comment among the stu
dents. All of them, while trying to main
tain an impartial attitude toward the 
band, have been decidedly against the 
use of a plaid C of any form for any 
thing but recognition of services on the 
athletic field. The Seannachie Society, 
the most representative body of men in 
the school, has voted unanimously against 
the use of this form of insignia by the band.
Now the idea is not that the Band should 
not have an insignia. We all want them 
to have some representative insignia. 
So long as they, or any other non-athletic  
activity, keep their insignia entirely differ
ent from the athletic C, they are wel
come to it and we, the Seannachie Society, 
and every one else will say, Go to it. 
The Seannachie Society is composed of 
men both in athletics and in the organiza
tions commonly called Student Activities, 
so they are in no way partial to athletes.
The Musical Clubs, Band, and White 
Friars Club are all three clubs of about 
the same kind. They are all three musical. 
The Musical Clubs have given in the past 
a pin, watch-fob, ring, or other reward 
according to what the club decides on for 
that year. The White Friars gave a pin 
this year. Neither of these clubs have 
even thought of awarding a letter. Why 
should the' Band?
If we let the Band have this insignia we 
will have to give letters to all other activi
ties, if they want them. I think any Car
negie man should honor the C so highly 
as to be jealous of any attempt to make it 
easy to get. Look at Cornell University 
eight members of their football team re
fused to accept their C because they did 
not defeat Pennsylvania. The C is 
very hard to get at Cornell, not all the 
members of even the first Varsity football 
team get it.
The point of the whole matter is that 
the Band should get an insignia which 
immediately suggests Band to the ob
server and not an athletic team of the 
Institution. The Band should be original 
enough and proud enough not to want 
anything like a Varsity C but get some
thing distinctly their own.
Suppose a member of the Band after 
getting and wearing this insignia should 
become tired of the questions raised by 
the lyre in the center. He might even be 
provoked into taking the lyre off. Then 
he would have what was to all appearances 
a Varsity C. This is probably a far
fetched case and might not happen, how
ever, it would not be much different from 
the action of a certain member of the Glee 
Club. His action was not one to be ap
proved of,but he got tired of people asking
THE STANDARD OF EXCELLENCE
Ma.c DONALDS
Candies and Ice Cream Sodas, Dainty Lunch. 
Tables for Ice Cream. Fancy Boxes, Baskets, 
Flavors Etc.
208 Sixth Street,Pittsburgh, Pa.
Chocolates
Continued on page 3
BETWEEN FRIENDS
One of the few things that can come between friends. In fact the oftener it comes the better 
she likes it.
R E Y M E RS
DANCING
New School of Dancing
Duquesne Garden, Main Entrance Second Floor, Mon., Wed., Sat.
Bell Schenley, 626. Residence, 2646-R 
eOETc VLi vO2c R. L. dElc
ALWAYS BUYZATEK CHOCOLATE
MORE ALMONDSSWEETER MILKSMOOTHER CHOCOLATE
at the beanery and everywhere
Every service a bank may render its 
customers is performed by
The Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co*
Iroquois Block 
Cheerfully, promptly and on the 
best of terms.
Capital $200,000.00
Surplus and Profits $200,000.00
Deposits over $1,300,000.00
Bell Phone 2797 Cedar. P. &. A. Phone 952-AH. A. BECKER,
MUSIC HOUSE EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC Headquarters for Band and Orchestra Instruments, Music and Supplies
^Corner "of 'wifiidle N. S., Pittsburgh, Pa.
If you dont trade here we boih loseRANDOLPH&.MCCLEMENTS
-oFloral Expertso5936 Penn Ave., near Highland 
Private Branch Exchange Hiland 25
Patronize our Advertisers.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN3
The Shape of Bottom 
NEW CUSTOM SHOE
STOEBENER
Man With Quality Shoes
6227 Penn Avenue 
6222 Frankstown AvenueEast End
Continued from page 2.
what the small M and C meant on 
his hat and took them off, leaving only 
the large middle C. I should think 
this young man should be too proud of 
his Glee Club to take off the M and 
C meaning Musical Clubs. In the 
other case the man should be too proud 
of his Band to take off the lyre, for in each 
case they are the details which designate 
the activity.-
I think, therefore, Mr. Editor, you 
should do your utmost to squelch the 
proposed Band insignia.
FRANK T. CRAWFORD, 
President, Seannachie Society
To the Editor of The Tartan:
Owing to the fact that there seems to be 
some dissatisfaction in the school regard
ing the insignia granted to last years 
band, it is altogether proper that some 
explanation should be given and the griev
ance, fancied or real, should be settled.
The chief objection seems to be raised 
by some members of the athletic associa
tion and some few of those engaged in 
athletics who hold that the band insignia 
as designed, approved and worn is an in
fringement upon the athletic C; that 
it belittles and cheapens the same and, 
consequently should not be allowed to be 
worn.
To fully understand the points in ques
tion and to be able to discuss the matter 
intelligently, the Band insignia and the 
varsity letter must be compared
The only respects in which they are alike 
are as follows:
1. They are both the same letter.
2. Both letters are made of Tartan 
plaid.
The respects in which they differ are as 
follows:
1. Size:The varsity C is cut from 
a square 5Y<i' x
The band letter is cut from a rec
tangle 5" high 4" wide.
2. Shape:The Varsity C is a block 
letter.
The band letter has corners round
ed off.
3. General Appearance:
1. The varsity C has no back 
ground.
The band letter has a blue 
background.
2. The varsity C encloses no 
emblem.
The band letter encloses a yel
low felt music lyre.
3. The varsity C has no binding 
on edges.
The band letter has its edges 
bound with yellow felt.
Surely no one possessing anything like 
normal powers of observation and the in
clination to judge things fairly can say 
that the one may be mistaken for the 
other. As to its belittling or cheapening 
the value of the varsity letter, there is no 
logic in that statement for they are en
tirely different and are given for entirely 
different services.
It should be also understood that the 
conditions under which band insignia is 
granted are as rigidly enforced as those 
under which the varsity letter is grantejd. 
To obtain the band insignia the bandman 
was compelled to attend at least 70 per 
cent, of all rehearsals and 75 per cent of all 
engagements during the entire school year. 
The majority of those eligible have been
and are yet giving the schools the free use 
of a private instrument worth from $50 to $150.
No one wishes to detract one iota from 
the value of the varsity letter. All honor 
to the men who win their letter. And al
so, all honor to all members of all student 
activities who help make our school what 
it is. I he bandmen, the musical club 
men and the members of other student or
ganizations are entitled to some recogni
tion in the way of insignia (if they want it) 
which will show what they have done.
Of course it would not be fitting to give 
each of these a varsity C. None of 
them want it, but they do want something 
appropriate and something which they 
will be proud to wear. But if the right 
to wear a letter of any kind is to be grant
ed solely in athletics its effect will surely 
be to discourage all minor activities.
The wearing of the varsity letter should 
not be considered as of so much import 
as to make gods out of men and place 
them upon pedestals to be worshiped. 
Even if the band insignia was a copy of 
the athletic C, the fact remains that of 
all student activities, none is so closely 
allied to athletics as the band. It is kept 
up through football, basketball and track 
seasons for no other purpose than to fur
nish music for the games, and it would be 
no breach of honor or discipline to grant 
the band some modification of the athletic 
letter. This has already been done by a 
university not far distant: and while said 
university may not be taken as a shining 
example, it certainly has the right idea in 
this respect; it gives the members of its 
minor activities a square deal.
The granting of this band letter was in 
accordance with the request of all eligible 
band men, and surely their wishes should 
be consulted in the matter. The original 
design was changed so as to forestall any 
opposition that might arise from the Ath
letic Association. The plaid C of the de
sign shows that the wearer has taken part 
in the school appreciates enough to re
ward him for his efforts. The music lyre 
on a blue background and enclosed by the 
letter shows that it is distinctly band, and 
this insignia is granted with the under
standing that the lyre must not be re
moved while the letter is worn.
It is not the intention of the band to act 
in opposition to the wishes of the student 
body at large and the band appreciates 
the support that the student body as a 
whole has tendered to it.
The band invites a careful examination 
of the design and the perfectly free un
biased, unprejudiced opinion of the stu
dent body, devoid of all petty jealousies, 
narrow-mindedness and previously form
ed opinions. A fair deal, a square deal 
at all times, and things will move along 
together smoothly.
(Signed) JAS. A. WELKER,
~ Manager 1910-11, 1911-12.
From these letters the student body 
should obtain a pretty fair idea of the 
siuation as it now stands. The Tartan 
cannot help saying now, before going fur
ther, that it considers it particularly un
fortunate that this question should have 
ever come up. It seems to The Tartan 
that it is one which the parties to the con
troversy could have settled among them
selves, more especially when the close re
lationship between the Band and Athletics 
in general is considered.
Does the Athletic Association have the
Enterprise Pressing CompanyCleaners and Dyers
Perfect Work in Ladies Childrens and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
203 Highland Bldg. Pittsburgh, Pa.
Phones: Office: 449 Hiland Works: 4912 Hiland
BUTTER, EGGS, COFFEE, TEAS,POULTRY, ETC. 
ALL AT RIGHT PRICES
Oakland Butter Market
3714 FORBES STREET Phone 710 Schenley. We Deliver
THE BOSTON
will be taught in class Wednesday 
evenings at 8 P. M. at the
Jacques Dancing Academy
CRAIG AND FORBES STREET
sole right to use the plaid C? That 
question, to the mind of The Tartan, is 
below this whole dispute, for if the Ath
letic Association can alone confer the C 
then the Band had not the right to pick 
the insignia it did. 'The Tartan thinks 
that the right to use the C lies wholly 
with the Athletic Association for the fol
lowing reasons.
In all of the American Colleges the Ath
letic Associations, be they called what they 
may, have the sole right to award to mem
bers of the student body taking part in 
athletic contests the varsity letter. This 
right they have jealously guarded until to 
the college mind, and also to some extent 
to the minds of those outside the college 
sphere, the wearing of a letter by a man 
means that he has taken part in a suffi
cient number of athletic contests to ob
tain the reward given for so doing. When 
we, here at Carnegie, put forth our first 
team we gave at the end of the season the 
C to its members. We thus adopted 
the ways of the college world jn general in 
rewarding our athletes. When we draft
ed our athletic constitution, we incorpor
ated into it the custom, and from then on 
have followed the policy with never a 
serious question raised until now. It 
has become with us a custom just as bind
ing as it is at any other college, and the 
C on a sweater stamps a man at once as 
an athlete or a manager of an athletic 
team. And so The Tartan concludes that 
the question has been answered. Should 
ever a sufficient sentiment arise to change 
this custom, then no precedent, no custom 
at colleges other than our own, should 
stand in the way. of the making of that 
change, but, until such sentiment does 
arise, The Tartan believes that the Ath
letic Association is guardian of the C 
as it is given as a reward for faithful ser
vice in student activities.
Let it be well understood that The TarMellon National Bank
514 Smithfield Street 
409 Fifth Avenue
Capital and Surplus $7,800,000
STEVENSONS STORES
are now replete with the choicest tab'e deli
cacies from home and foreign lands. Treat 
yourself to the best of Christmas Cheer.
STEVENSONS STORES606 Wood Street Highland & Centre Aves. Down town East End
tan believes that student activities as dis - 
tinguished from athletics should have an 
insignia of their own with which to reward 
their members. But since the student 
body by its unanimous unspoken consent 
has given the C into the keeping of the 
Athletic teams, the insignia chosen by any 
organization should not infringe upon the 
C. In the case of the Band this has ap
parently been done, The design drawn 
up has not met with the approval of the 
Athletic Assocation; neither has it ob
tained the authorization and approval of 
the board awarding the money for the 
purchase of these insignia, the Student 
Activities Committee, as Mr. Griswold 
points out. The terms under which the 
money was given states that it (the in
signia) should not be too similar to the 
Athletic C. Mr. Welker of the Band 
states that it is not too similar: Mr. Craw
ford, of the Seannachie Club and an ex
captain of the football team, states that 
it is. There is a difference of opinion. 
If this difference can not be settled as it 
should be, amicably and quietly, it should 
be put before a jury whose decision shall 
be final. The Tartan again desires to ex
press the hope that this matter can be 
settled out of court, and that no feelings 
will be caused over a matter in a way so 
small.
In Mr. Crawfords letter he states that 
certain members of the Musical Clubs 
have altered the insignia awarded 
them by removing the letters M. C. The 
Tartan would dislike to say in plain lsnguage what it thinks of a man who wculd do 
such a thing. To make such an alteration 
the man doing it must have a very much 
warped sense of what is right, fitting and 
proper. The Tartan believes that by re
moving any part of the insignia as award
ed to him, the man has forfeited the right 
to the insignia and would like to see the 
Musical Clubs take the right to wear its 
insignia from him.

---------------------------------------------------

4THE TARTAN
Now that the election is vociferously 
over and the country is temporarily saved, 
the newly enfranchised citizens within our 
academic midst can return to the anxious 
nursing of mustaches hovering between 
visibility and suspicion.
No one who has not hung over his own 
lip, so to speak, with a bottle of vaseline 
and a magnifying glass anxiously watch
ing for an incautious hair to emerge from 
its lair that he might pounce on it and tie 
a decisive knot therein, has had other 
than an illspent youth.
Militant suffragettes with back hair in 
one hand and an erratic brick in the other 
have shrieked in four languagesWhat 
has man done that women cannot do? 
We answer meekly but firmly, she cann ot raise an entirely satisfactory mus
tache. (Margaret Morrison correspondent 
please copy.)
. To return to our youthful promoter of 
labial decoration, our valet of shadows, 
as it were; having had a warming up heat 
with side burns in a futile but worthy 
attempt to coax the offensively profuse 
thatching of his cerebral roof down his 
cheek toward his lip, he settles down to a 
stubborn and desperate seige.
Mustache culture in its adolescent as
pect is distinctly a sporting proposi
tion. You can never tell whether the 
soil you have so carefully massaged and 
lubricated and which in exposure and 
drainage has the normal advantages, will 
gladden your heart with a silken nappe 
visible quite fifty feet away or will flout 
you with a half dozen embryonic sprouts 
of non-committal color and pathetic frag
ility. And then in the throes of ineffect
ual effort you are sure to encounter one 
of those hirsutely gifted females whose 
reluctant lip is shadowed in a way that 
makes you look like a Chinaman.
Who can forget the thrill that almost 
gave you a curvature of the spine when 
for the first time your favorite tonsorial 
surgeon, having amputated your hyperion 
locks, suddenly and gravely inquires 
shave? The conflagration in your 
glorified countenance almost sets fire to 
the pinfeathers on your virgin ckeeks, 
and you stammer in a voice indicative of a 
valiant effort to swallow your Adams 
Apple, that you believe you will. The 
reactionary despair that makes you feel 
like a cold storage plant, when the fiend 
of the razor proceeds to shave your neck.
And then when hope has fled how he 
solemnly revolves you counter clockwise 
through 88 30' and begins a pioneer ex
ploration of your downy pink counte
nance for incipient shrubbery. You hold 
your breath to detect the first faint rasp 
of the razor as evidence that it has en
countered some resistance. You have to 
walk backward going home, so that you 
wont step on anybody.
You are really surprised 'when your 
friends recognize you, you thought the 
shave an effectual disguise. After the 
fourth or fifth repetition of this debauch 
you are competent to launch a debutant 
mustache. Thereafter you live on your
upper lip. Your mirror is covered with 
water blisters from much anxious usage, 
and you forget to comb your hair.
As an experience, it has the first long
pants backed into a secluded nook. 
All that is required to give it a satisfactory 
rotundity is the feminine admiration and 
applause of a sort of god mother in the 
guise of the sweetest girl you know.
Later on when that pampered fringe 
begins to turn a dubous gray and by no 
delusion of a fond imagination can longer 
be described as silky but then why call 
attention to the inevitable fly in the oint
ment?
KEEP IN STEP WITH THE TIMES!
The Tartan has just completed arrange
ments for publishing each week a short 
bibliography of the leading articles and 
news items in the worlds great periodicals. 
These lists will be compiled by members 
of the faculty. A faithful reading of the 
articles thus recommended will surely 
result in keeping our students in touch 
with modem thought and events. All 
the periodicals cited may be found in the 
Carnegie Library. We regret that the 
demands, on our space this week will pre
vent us from printing all but a small part 
of the list prepared for this issue.
The Balkans and the War
After Turkey Breaks UpWhat? 
William T. Ellis, Outlook for November 30 
page 723.
Driving Out the Turk,editorial 
Youth's Companion for December 5, page 
670.
Progress of the War,Outlook for 
November 30 page 697-8.
Poll of the Press, ibid 716 et seg.
Why the Turks were Defeated, 
Literary Digest. November 30, page 1003. 
Is the German system at fault? The ar
ticle discusses the superiority of French 
artillery.
A Trip to MontenegroRev. Francis 
E. Clark. Youth's Companion, December 
5, page 667.
A fine description of the physical feat
ures of the territory involved in the war.
A New Power in EuropeStephen 
Van Renselaer Trowbridge. Outlook, Dec
ember 7, page 759. A very readable 
story of the growth of Bulgaria.
The Austro-Servian QuarrelLiterary 
Digest, December 7, page 1054.
The Bath Tub  Case
The Gist of the DecisionOutlook, Nov
ember 30, page 703.
Outlawing the Bath Tub Trust 
Literary Digest, November 30, page 1001. 
Gives the reasons for this epoch mak
ing decision.
The Becker Case
Where the Gunmen Come From 
Outlook, November 30, age 791. A char
acter study well worth reading.
New Yorks Lesson to Gunmen 
Literary Digest. November 30, page 999. 
Satisfying to lovers of law and order.
Labor
A Great Railway War Averted 
Literary Digest, December 7, page 1048. 
Tells how a calamitous strike of 30,000 
locomotive engineers on fifty-two eastern 
railroads was averted by arbitration.
The Railway Arbitration: a Review 
Outlook, December 7, page 752.
The Acquittal of the I. W. W. Lead
ersLiterary Digest, December 7, page 
1049. The issue in a murder trial of in
ternational interest.
The Salem Trial of the Lawrence Case
Outlook, December 7, page 739.
Health
A Lesson in BreathingYouth's 
Companion, December 5, page 680.
The Problem of National Health 
Earl Mayo. Outlook, December 7, page 
764. How the U. S. can save $1,500,000,- 
000 annually by eliminating avoidable 
sickness.
Health and the Federal Government 
Outlook, December 7, page 745.
Scientific
Why Smoke is InjuriousLiterary 
Digest, November 30, page 1007.
A Cinematograph for Amateurs 
Literary Digest, December 7, page 1057. 
Describing a moving picture machine for 
the ordinary dabbler in photography.
New Sources of Paperibid page 
1061. A process for utilizing vast quan
tities of cellulose from hitherto almost 
neglected sources.
The New England Railroad Situation
New England as a Switch-yard 
Independent, December 5, page 1299.
Railway AccidentsOutlook, Nov
ember 30, page 704.
One Roads Accident RecordLiter
ary Digest, November 30, page 1000. Dis
cussing nine wrecks on one system in a 
year and a half.
Unclassified
Denying the Failure of the Public 
SchoolsLiterary Digest, November 30, 
page 1013. An answer to charges con
tained in recent numbers of a Ladies 
periodical.
Niagaras Industrial BeautyLiter
ary Digest, December 7, page 1060. But 
the cataract, no longer able to teach its 
primal majestic lesson, can at least teach 
humanity something of the beauty of 
Labor.
Football, Pro and ConOutlook, Dec
ember 7, page 743.
The Future of Partieseditorial 
Youth's Companion, December 5, page 670. 
A statement of five political possibilities 
in the United States.
APPLIED DESIGN SMOKER
It was as inevitable that there would 
be some sort of rousing housewarming 
following the removal of the School of Ap
plied Design in to the new quarters as that 
it would be arranged and carried through 
by the Junior class. And so it happened, 
Friday evening, December 6th, witnessing 
the event. There gathered in the archi
tectural drafting room some two hundred 
of the Design School, their friends and the 
faculty.
Mr. Hombostel, the consulting dean 
of the school, attended, and headed the 
program with a speech, accepting the 
crown and robe that were thrust upon 
him at his entrance, with due pomp and 
ceremony. His talk set forth the benefits 
of the system of esquisses enl oge, and 
pictured the progress and future of the 
School of Design, when he said, the gilt 
paper crown he was wearing would sym
bolize something beyond the present spirit 
of merry making and jesta remarkable 
achievement in art education for the city 
of Pittsburgh and for the school, which 
he had begun.
Those present who were not student 
architects became student architects in 
their appreciation of Mr. Hornbostels 
talk, and the applause when he sat down 
was long and continuous.
fOOEmNotch COLLARS
MEDORA 2Vs in. CHESTER 2 In.
gfor 25 cts. C< UETT, PEABODY & CO.. Makers
Come to us to be suitedBell Phone Schenlev 2826=J
SKIBO PRICES
Trousers Pressed - - $ .15
Suits  - .50
Suits Cleaned and Pressed - 1.25
Repairing, Dyeing, etc., at moderate 
prices.
University Tailoring Co.
S. F. Pacyna, Prop.
3711 5th Ave._____t__________________
Wunderlich Co.
Hatters and Men s Furnishers
3723 Torbes St. Cor. Oakland Ave. 
Nearest Tech
Selections followed by the quartet and 
string orchestra, members of the Glee and 
Mandolin Clubs, who kindly consented 
to assist the Junior committees in provid
ing entertainment. The two scheduled 
bouts, Harwood vs. Boyd and Marks vs. 
Walruth provided active amusement, in 
which Boyd and Marks were given the 
decisions by referees Hays and Marks.
Moving Pictures followed the ring 
entertainment on the other side of the 
drafting room. Films generously loaned 
the committee by the Oakland and Schenley Theatres afforded many opportunities 
for kidding the movies, and resulting 
added laughs. Eats at the far end of 
the room, served in the beanery style, 
formed the next set. Mr. Hombostel 
and the faculty led off with the Beanery 
snake dance, which after the refreshments 
became a torch light pee-rade, down one 
stairs through the atruim, up the other 
stairs through the department of Illus
tration and Decoration and out into the 
night.
SCIENCE ELECTIONS
Last Wednesdays elections resulted as 
follows:
Second Assistant Baseball Manager. 
Pringle 106.
Rownd 98 
Tilbrook 80.
Hawk 16.
Second Assistant Basket Ball M anager. 
Wright 110.
Rinehart 103.
Patterson 92.
Senior Member Board of Control.
W. L. Moorhead uncontested. 
Junior Member Board of Control.
E. L. Clair 68.
Douthett 42.
Miller 37.
De Muth 19.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
Cxdustbe
Christmas Carfos
. MAKE YOUR SELECTION NOW.
PIBRPONT, SI VITER & CO.
pps wMViA fr.L9.c
7hone 35S Hiland and Our Representative Will Call.
M. M. C. S. NEWS
----o-----
Recital by Charles Wakefield Cadman
The tedium of the first day aftsr vaca
tion was delightfully relieved on Monday, 
December 2nd, by an Indian Folklore 
Recital given by Mr. Cadman, the com
poser. He was assisted by Mr. Paul K. 
Harper, vocal illustrator. Instruction and 
entertainment were skillfully combined. 
A brief synopsis of the origin and charac
teristics of Indian music was given by Mr. 
Cadman. The piano and vocal selections 
illustrated the points touched upon, and 
were also excellent from a purely artist1'c 
point of view. In his talk, Mr. Cadman, 
explained the origin of Indian music, and 
showed how it resembled other music of a 
primitive character. It expresses human 
emotions, and so has the same foundation 
that all music has. The most apparent 
trait of Indian music, and that which dis
tinguishes it from other formless music is 
its marked and often intricate rhythm. 
Another interesting fact was that they 
have to transmit music vocally, having 
no symbolic means of doing so. The 
priests of the tribes organize and instruct 
the chorus in the tribal music, and keep 
alive the music of the tribe from genera
tion to generation. The village songs are 
the most melodious, the war songs rather 
monotonous, to our ears. It is perhaps 
difficult to know just how much Mr. Cad
man has added to the crude material upon 
which he worked; little of the beauty and 
charm with which he vivifies his idealiza
tions would, I fear, be enjoyment to those 
interested in music, and has contributed 
valuable information concerning Indian 
life.
BASKET BALL GAME
With the Junior-Sophomore game the 
basket ball season started off with a snap 
and swing that was good to see. The 
game was called promptly: out marched 
the girls to the tune of that scandalous 
song making known the fact that the 
gangs all here. But there was almost a 
panic when they discovered how much of 
a gang was there! They soon recovered, 
and threw themselves into the game with 
fine spirit. The spectators showed a fine 
spirit, too. If rooting would have won 
the game, I am certain that the Sopho
mores would have been victorious. As it 
was, the Juniors were rather surprised. 
The feature of the game, (there always 
is a feature), was the goal shooting of 
Mary L. Williams.
The next game is between the Sophs 
and the Plebes. Everybody in the school 
that likes a good game, and has the capac
ity to enjoy one, should be there.
And by the way, why dont the Seniors 
wake up and get a team?
Following is the line up: 
Sophomore Junior
Mary L. Williams..F................Ruby Jack
Susan Goodchild... F................Lois Turkle
Mary McGrew.......C.......... .Lucy Pardoe
Louise McMillan..S. C........Eleanor Clark
Margaret Spihlman G................Ellen Cole
Hazel Frieland.......G.....Elizabeth Caufield
The final score was 19-17 in favor of the 
juniors.
A BUSY LIFE AT M. M. C. S.
With the Dramatic Club, the Glee Club, 
and the Guild, the Margaret Morrison
Girls are leading a mighty busy life. The 
Dramatic Club has started to work m 
good and earnest. They are planning to 
present Dickens Christmas Carol, on 
Thursday evening, December nineteenth. 
Mr. Geoghegan of the Design School is 
coaching the girls, and the Dramatic Club 
feels especially fortunate in being able 
to get the services of Mr. Geoghegan, and 
in being able to have the benefit of his 
excellent and clever ideas. Mrs. Vermorcken has also been giving her time 
to the Club, and with two such capable 
workers, there is no reason for the Christ
mas entertainments not being a success. 
With only a few rehearsals, the play is 
already beginning to take some form, and 
if the girls will only to promise show up 
at every rehearsal as they should, every 
thing will go nicely.
THE GUILD TEA
Those who attended the Tea and Bazaar 
given by the Margaret Morrison Guild 
last Saturday can surely have nothing 
but the very best to say about it. The 
faculty parlors were most attractively de
corated, and every booth was piled high 
with the dainty things which the girls, 
and also some of the faculty, had made. 
One could almost have done onesChrist
mas shopping right there without having 
to go any farther. The candy booth 
seemed very popular, and was sold out 
long before the demand had been supplied. 
The alumni girls also gave their regular 
contribution, and everything was very 
much appreciated. The girls who have 
been giving their time and energy to the 
cause of the Guild, all the proceeds of 
which are to go for the sake of charity 
surely deserve a reat deal of credit, and 
those who have been indifferent need to 
hide their faces for shame. There is no 
worthier cause in the School than that 
supported by the Margaret Morrison 
Guild.
Start now and make something for next 
year.
The Junior History Class last Thursday 
was taken up by a discussion on the period 
of the Rennaissance, but it would better 
be called a discussion of Figures of Speech 
versus Capital Letters, and which Capi
tal Letters won out.
MUSICAL CLUBS AT NEWSBOYS 
HOME
The Musical Clubs were the guests of 
the News Boys Home of this city last 
Thursday night giving two short concerts 
in which they delighted the several hun
dred news boys who had assembled to
gether. That the concert was enjoyed 
by those present was judged by the Tech 
yells given by the newspaper salesman af
ter each concert, and the way these yells 
were delivered would credit an equal num
ber of Carnegie students. The Musi
cal Clubs were in return treated to a 
Basket Ball game of the Fifth Avenue 
High School and its alumni.
Tuesday, December 17th, a concert will 
be given by the Mus'cal Clubs in the 
Anton Theatre at Monongahela, Pa. 
The management expects to charter a 
special car each way.
Patronize our Advertisers.
Kred
Where all the Tech boys eat
Atwood and Forbes
Fred S. Suddaby
The Tango
McDougaH Dancing Classes
Shady and Penn Wood and 5th 4616 Forbes Street
Bell phone 1587 Court P. & A. phone 3112
WHITTINGTON & CO.
6001-2-3 Jenkins 
Arcade 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
For Hire
Full Dress Suits, Frock 
Coats, Tuxedos, Silk Hats 
White Vests, S t r i p e d 
Trousers, Opera Hats 
Black Suits for Funerals.
New Place, New Suits 
New Styles
Best service west
of New York
BRANCHES: 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Detroit, Mich
SAILOR
Tailor
Peoples Bank Building
Sporting Goods, Cutlery, College 
Pennants, Banners & Pillow Tops. 
HUKILL=HUNTER CO.
414 Wood St.
THE SCHENLEY FARMS
Pittsburghs Restricted Residence District
THE SCHENLEY FARMS CO. 
1412 Farmers Bank Bldg.
Bell phone 3465 Grant
Standard Desks, Macey Filing Cabinets and Sectional Book Cases, Steel Book Units, Filing Devices and Safe Cabinets
J. G. Marshall Company
Office and Library Furniture 
959 Liberty Avenue Pittsburg, Pa.
Young Men
are cordially invited to join the Bellefield 
Presbyterian Church Chorus Choir. See 
MR. MAYHEW 
at the church, cor. 5th Ave. and Bellefield Street Saturday evenings at 7:30.
Stop at
STAUFTS
NewsStationerT obacco
3702 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pa
Ice Cream and Cakes
Sold to Tech Students at special rates 
See us about the eatins for yourdoins
THE HALLER BAKERY
3618 Forbes Ave., Iroquois Block
YOURE NEXT
Tech Sanitary Barber Shop
Harry F. Van Curen, Prop.
Cor. Ci lip and Forbes Street 
Pittsburgh, PennsylvaniaPittsburgh, Pa.
Youve Heard It!
Glad to be on the PENiMSYLVANIA again,
and similar expressions emohasizing satisfactory service of
Taiilorvaiia
uNL.2
A daily remark on through trains to Chicago, Cleveland, Toledo, 
Detroit, St. Louis, Cincinnati, and other cities
Route for Real RestService the Best
Particulars may be obtained at
CITY TICKET OFFICE, Olivet Building, Smithfield St. and Sixth Ave. Telephone: Grant 1788 or by addressing F. W. CONNER, District Passenger Agent, PITTSBURGH

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Theaters Week of Dec. 16.
ALVINThe Bird of Paradise, a very 
beautiful scenic and atmospheric reflec
tion of Hawaii and the customs and tem
perament of the people. Bessie Barriscale 
and Guy Bates Post are in the large cast. 
-o----
NIXONChristie McDonald in The 
Spring Maid, will pay a return visit to 
the Nixon. You will remember this 
pretty music conceit.
DUQUESNEThe Stock Company will 
revive the tearful East Lynn as a pre
lude to the gay Christmas t'me.
LYCEUMBeulah Poynter will be 
seen in two plays. She is quite a clever 
little actress.
GRANDRalph Rowley in a one act 
comedy is coming to the Grand.
WEDNESDAY MORNING LECTURE
The large increase in attendance at 
the General Lecture last Wednesday morn
ing, due possibly to the fact that a threat 
had been posted by the upper-classmen, 
was very gratifying to the Dean and all 
those students who have attended enough 
to see the value of the lectures. They 
realized that it was only a matter of time 
until interest would be aroused and it 
would be necessary to hang our the S. R. 
O. Sign. Keep the good work up, men, 
and pack the room still more.
The speaker last Wednesday was Mr. 
Geo. Nielson, Vice President of the Eraeburn Steel Works, and his subject was 
What an Engineer ought not to do. 
He began by giving us two definitions 
of the word Engineer, as follows: One
wh utilizes the forces of nature to do 
the necessary work of man, and An 
Engineer is a man who can do for 50 cents 
.what it would cost another man $1.00 
to do. Mr. Nielson gave a short history 
of Engineering and the different kinds of 
Engineers, and a few valuable general 
hints: Dont think the Contractor is al
ways a crook, and cultivate the ability to 
listen to the advice and opinion of others. 
Give credit where it belorgs.
Secretary ^iljs o * the Engineers Society 
of Western Pennsylvania, occupied the 
platform with Mr. Nielson and . Dean 
Leete, and gave a few minutes talk at the 
end of the hour, including an invitation 
to the students to attend the meetings 
of the Society.
Following the speeches, announcement 
was made that the General Lecture hour 
next Wednesday would be given over to 
members of the class of 1912, C. I. T., at 
which time they will present a $100.00 
scholarship to one of the members of the 
present Senior Class.
THE GLEE CLUB
The Glee Club was started to work with 
arush last Monday afternoon. Mr. O'
Brien, who is in charge of the Music De
partment, of the School of Applied De
sign, held a trial of voices. For about an 
hour and a half through the halls of M. 
M. C. S. was wafted melody a succession 
of Ahs.
The list of members was posted on the 
bulletin board on Wednesday and things 
look bright for a successful year. We are 
to have as our Director Mr. McDowell.
The Club is to sing several carols on the 
night of the Christmas play, December 
19th. Practice, under Mr. McDowell, 
will begin on Tuesday and all members 
are ready to work. The Club wishes to 
thank Mr'. OBrien for his most excellent 
assistance.
HERE AT LAST
The new Club Room for the Applied 
Industries School is here at last. The 
well known expressions: Everything
comes to him who waits, Success crowns 
efforts and continual dropping wears away 
a stone, may be appropriately applied to 
the untiring efforts of the Student Senate 
to secure the new room.
To Dean Connelly and Mr. C. C. Leeds 
the students owe a vote of thanks for 
granting them the use of Room 123 as a 
Club Room. The room just mentioned 
is ideal for the purpose intended, being 
well lighted, well ventilated, and conven
iently located.
Now that the Dean, Mr. Leeds, and the 
Student Senate have done their part to
ward adding to the comfort of the students, 
it should be a simple matter for them to 
do theirs. Each student Day and Night 
will be asked to help with the furnishing 
of the room, and the assessment being light 
and reasonably low each one should-contri
bute, not grudgingly but with a willing 
spirit.
* The students of the Applied Industries 
School are patiently waiting for the first 
flow of hot water in the shops and toilet 
rooms. In the shops it is difficult enough 
to remove the dirt and grime from the face 
and hands with hot water, so one can 
imagine the discomfort from being com
pelled to wash in cold water at this season 
of the year.
To the Supervisor of Equipment and 
to the Superintendent of Buildings 
Please hustle up the hot water.
GYM NOTES
The basket ball league is on, a good 
schedule has been arranged with twelve 
teams playing for the championship of 
the school. Be on time, and do not for
feit any games or delay the schedule.
The gymnasium will be open Tuesday 
and Thursday nights for the use of the 
night school students, from 7:30 to 10:00.
Gym classes are held every afternoon 
from 3:15 to 4:00 and 4:15 to 5:00 which 
any student may join.
CARNEGIE TECH DRAFTING CLUB
At a meeting of The Carnegie Tech 
Drafting Club held November 20th, the 
following officers were elected.
C. R. Rosenberg...........................Presidert
H. M. Danner.......................Vice Presidert
C. F. Wagner...............................Secretary
P. F. Murphy................................Treasurer
The old system of using a heated 
iron and dirty cloth pres.crs the grime 
and dirt into your garments. Our 
sanitary machine steams it all out, and 
removes permanently the dirt, pers
piration, odor and grime. See Shu
man the Dry Cleaner, 3911 Forbes 
street.
P. Ludebuehl & Son
Penn and Frankstown, E. E.
GEE=WHIZ,==at $4.00
one of our 40 NEW FALL STYLES in 
Mens Boots. This is strictly a young 
mans boot, with lots of style, and good 
fitting qualities.
^Built for us by a famous Brockton Man
ufacturer.
Step in Our Mens Department
City Office;
631 Penn AvenueEast End Office;
S. Highland Ave. and Baum Street
Oswald Werner & Sons Co.
Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest Dyeing and Cleaning Works
New Private Branch Exchange. Call Hiland 1138 
Main Office and Works: Cor* Bryant, St Clair and Mellon Sts
Just Right Clothing
For College Men
Suits $13.50 to $35.00 
Overcoats $15.00 to $45.00
Just Right Clothing comes direct from maker to wearer. Therefore 
saving the middlemens profit. This item is worthy of consideration,
McCREERY & CO.
Wood and Sixth Street
GREGORIO SCA.LZO
----Leader Carnegie Tech Mandolin ClubMusic for all occasions. Exceptional Dance Orchestras at
reasonable price.
AddressAtwood & Cable TelephoneSchenley 1638-R
True Values 
ulsters
B & BTrue Values
Heres a chance for men and college boys to buy an $18.50 Ulster for $13.50. Plain Cambridge Grey Cheviots and Fancy Rough Shaggy Cheviotssingle breasted, belted backUlster collar, $13.50.
50c neckwear, 25c
Silk Sca-fs-rich new, colorful, beautifully designed Necktiespopular open end Four-in-hand stylesstripes and figures50c Ties, 25c.
Boggs & Buhl, Pittsburgh, Penn'a.
GEO. L. KOPP & CO.
Drawing Instruments and Material ARTISTS MATERIALS Blue Print Papers and Blue Printing.
We repair Drawing InstrumentsHYDROMETERS THERMOMETERS ANEROID BAROMETERS 
704 Smithfiald Street, Pittsburgh, Pa.
HOTEL SCHENLEY
PITTSBURGH, PA.
Under the Management of the Schenley Hotel and Restaurant Company 
Roman H Heyn, President 
"ROOM RATES $2.00 PER DAY AND UPWARDS
Practically all the functions of the Carnegie Institute of Technology are 
held at the Schenley. Our rates have been considerably reduced, and we have 
engaged Mr. Widmer, the chef of the Union Restaurant, to be in charge of our 
kitchen department; Mr. Widmer having been at the Union Restaurant for 10 
years, is perfectly acquainted with the wants and demands of our local support
ers, and we are therefore in the best position to take care of YOUR trade at 
reasonable rates. phone 285 schenley
