The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 12CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OP TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1944
Carnegie Goes 
Navy Blue Today
The first contingent of Naval per
sonnel will arrive at the Carnegie 
Institute of Technology today, un
der a new arrangement with the 
Fourth Naval District whereby Car
negie is to become the United States 
Receiving Station at Pittsburgh.
The personnel will consist of the 
crews for the landing craft that are 
being constructed in the Pittsburgh 
district. The Fourth Naval District, 
with headquarters in Philadelphia, 
is respQnsible for the training of 
most of the landing craft crews on 
the Atlantic seaboard. The men who 
will be received at Carnegie Tech 
have practically completed their 
training. Such training as is given 
will be provided by the Navy, per
sonnel.
Navy procedure has been to have 
complete crews available when 
landing craft are launched. They 
take charge immediately upon com
pletion and delivery to the Navy by 
the manufacturers.
While awaiting final delivery of 
the finished craft the men will be 
housed and messed at Carnegie 
Tech, which will also be responsible 
for their medical care.
Rabbi Freehof Speaks 
Before CIT Chapel
The regular chapel program, this 
time sponsored Alpha Epsilon Phi, 
was held yesterday. Tech students 
were very fortunate in hearing Rab
bi Solomon B. Freehof as the speak
er. He spoke extemporaneously on 
Civilian Daydreaming. The talk 
was on the opinions of the civilians 
and the soldiers as to what the fu
ture will bring after the war. Rabbi 
Freehof is a fascinating speaker 
whose personalized manner lends 
warmth to his delivery, a warmth 
not present in the sermons of many 
other religious speakers.
Dr. Freehof was born in London, 
England, but he came to the United 
States with his parents at the age 
of 11. He is a graduate of the Uni
versity of Cincinnati and the He
brew Union College, where he later 
taught for 9 years. During the last 
World War he was a chaplain in the 
American Expeditionary Forces. He 
was Rabbi of' the Kehilalth Anshe 
Maariv Temple in Chicago for ten 
years before he came to the Rodef 
Shalom Temple in 1934. He is, at 
president, President of the Central 
Conference of American Rabbis and 
a member of the Board of Union 
of American Hebrew Congrega
tions; is author of several books, 
some are commentary on the Book 
of Pslams, A Small Sanctuary, 
Modern Jewish Preaching. He has 
nation-wide fame as a scholar and 
speaker.
2>a 'Ifatt date?
Test Yourself With 
Courts Preferences
Huge Spring Carnival Fling 
Is High of Semester Activity
Frances Creelman, June Hawk, Queen Lois Frishkorn, Rea Simon
Jean Ferrarez
The statistical research bureau of 
the Tartan has delved into the se
cret lives of the campus queen and 
her court to supply its readers with 
invaluable information concerning 
their likes, dislikes, and all the other 
old subjects.-'
Questions: Name; hair color;
eyes; height; weight; dress at cor
onation; activities and positions; 
preference in music; preference in 
men; boy in what branch of the ser
vice; available, pinned, engaged, or 
married; what do you like to do 
when you go out. Answers:
Lois Frishkorn; blonde; hazel, 
53; 115whats this for?; white; 
Scottie, Thistle, Kappa; classical; 
Oh, dear, just make up anything. 
No preference; Navy; available; 
Oh, my goodness. Oh, just any old 
thing.
Frankie Creelman; Used to be 
blonde, kinda turning now. Kinda 
dishwater blonde, Id say; green; 
563/4 Im tall, so whats the dif
ference; Lets forget it, eh; aqua
marine; Delta-Gamma, Thistle; 
Tommy Dorsey; tall and dark; 
Navy; I dont like that word avail
able. Im not married, engaged, or 
pinned. You know what that 
leaves.; dance, have a good time, 
Mainly . . . anything you want.
Doris Ferraez; Thats brown, I 
guess; brown; 58; 125; I guess 
youd call it robins egg blue; Al
pha Kappa Psi, out of rifle; Any 
kind of classical, then any kind of 
blues or boogie; Men . . . a . . . 
well . . . oh, dear tall and blonde; 
Army Air Corps; Oh, lets put 
available; Dance, and just about 
anything; all kinds of sports.
June Hawk; red; blue; 54; 109; 
aqua; science club, Tri Delt; semiclassical; tall, dark, and smooth;
Navy Air corps; available; dancing, 
thats all.
Rea Simon; blonde; blue, Green 
if I wear a green dress; 53*4, In 
stockings? Then Im real small; 
118 Now youre getting personal. 
Ill tell you; Social chairman of 
modern dance club, CWEN, queens 
court for third time Always a 
bridesmaid, never a bride; senti
mental songs, classical? Uh-huh, 
if Im in the mood; Can any girl 
afford to be particular?; I have 
em all; Available, but available, 
very available; Well . . . have a 
good time by being in enjoyable 
company.
Household Ec. Club 
Gives Dinner Partv 
In Rec. Hall, MMCC
The Household Economics Club is 
celebrating the advent of Spring 
with a dinner party to be held on 
April 15 at Recreation Hall in the 
Margaret Morrison Building.
As a special attraction, entertain
ment will be provided by a hypno
tist, an addition which seems to 
spell excitement. But this is not 
all, music will also be furnished for 
the enjoyment of the diners.
For obvious reasons the number 
of tickets will be limited so those 
planning on attending are advised 
to get tickets early. The tickets will 
be sold by the cashier at the Tea 
Room on Wednesday, March 29th, 
and by the members of the club dur
ing the week for the price of 75c.
Dorothy Schadel, president of the 
club, wishes to extend an invitation 
to all and especially to the Fresh
men and Costume Economics stu
dents.
Brad Hunts And Bill 
Le Roys Players Do 
Fine Job On Music
Coinciding with the actual arrival 
of spring, Carnegie Tech gaily cele
brated its traditional Spring Car
nival from the first note of music 
sounded by Brad Hunt and his or
chestra at 8:00 P.M. Friday night 
until the last fading strain produced 
by Joey Simms and his orchestra at 
1:00 A. M. Sunday morning. Al
though the departure of a large of 
the ASTP created some doubt as to 
its success, the remaining GIs the 
civilian students, and the faculty 
joined the weather man to make 
Spring Carnival one of the most 
outstanding social events of the sea
son. An estimated 245 couples were 
present on Friday evening and near
ly 300 couples on Saturday, the con
ditions on both nights reminiscent 
of Presidents Birthday Balls in 
Washington, D. C.
Something new in the way of a 
floor show was given by the dramats 
and Perry Jubilerer, a Pitt student, 
on Friday night. Priscilla Dodge 
and Prof. Schmertz of the Drama 
Continued on Page 3
PiDE, Cwens, WAA 
Have Call Day Sat.
Call Day was among the many 
events scheduled for Spring Car
nival on Saturday afternoon. Janet 
Armstrong announced the new 
members of the Pi Delta Epsilon, a 
national journalistic honorary so
ciety: ,
Ralph D. Berkowitz Daniel L. Schacher 
Richard Bingham Virginia Sheppard 
Pvt. Mike Gingold John C. Stephenson 
Leonard Lerman Josephine Sunseri 
Ernest A. Lowenstein Anne Sweeney 
Marshall Nurenberg Pfc. J. W. Vaughan 
Pfc. I. M. Perlmutter Kenneth Welch 
Albert Perry Eleanor Wilson
President of the Cwens, Helen 
Jaffurs, called forward the old 
members who placed over each new 
members head a chain made of red 
and grey braided ribbon with a red 
carnation at the end. The new mem
bers include seven Fine Arts and 
twelve Margaret Morrison girls. 
Eleanor Alexander Peggy Kent 
Ada Bucy Bonnie Jean Lisle
Suzanne Burrey Camille McCullough 
Sue Crobaugh Helen Miller
Lucille Emmel Mary Lou Snedden
Marie Falkenhagen Billie Sturgeon
Mary Gannon Irene Surenda
Imogene Grove Sarah Thompson
Margaret Harris Janet Whitney
Charlotte Young 
^ Awards were also given by the 
Womens Athletic Association to 
these girls on campus:
Betty Darling Clementine McKenna
Peggy Fay Virginia Mullhallan
Imogene Grove Natalie Nathan
Ruth Haus Margaret ONions
Eileen Hilf Carolyn Srulson
Complete Picture 
Coverage of Carnival 
On Page Four

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 194
(sAUot AnmcUain.
Four-Month Plan For Tartan
We are taking over the editorship of the Tartan fully aware of the 
painful fact that it is none too well liked by the Carnegie Tech students. 
Some of their gripes and demands may be unreasonable in view of the 
many handicaps war time conditions have imposed upon us, but in general 
their complaints are unfortunately quite justified, and it is high time that 
something be done to correct our various shortcomings. Well, new brooms 
sweep clean, and like every new editor we are brimming with plans to sat
isfy the most demanding of our readers.
Our first and biggest task will be to make the Tartan a more interest
ing college paper. We shall do our best to run more and better features, 
plenty of pictures, and less long and tedious articles about events which 
are interesting to none. We shall also try to eliminate the technical faults 
of the paper, and to put out issues without typographical errors, without 
meaningless headlines, and without a style of writing which reminds the 
reader of a high school themeand a bad one at that.
Simple as these resolutions may sound, we are far from certain that we 
shall be able to fulfill them. In former years, when students of all classes 
were plentiful, freshman reporters were flunkies just good enough to clean 
up the office and get cokes and sandwiches for their older colleagues; soph
omores might get a chance to write headlines or compose two-sentence 
notices, and only juniors and seniors would ever write articles and features. 
Today the greenest frosh begins his Tartan career by writing the lead 
article, and of course this does not improve the standard of the paper; 
nevertheless we pledge ourselves to do our utmost to make this a better and 
more interesting paper.
Aside from these plans we are contemplating a three point program 
for the editorial section of the paper. As the shameful result of the War 
Bond campaign, and the failure of one discussion group after the other have 
shown, the average C. I. T. student is pitifully unaware of the things for 
which we are fighting this war. Our first point will be to acquaint the stu
dents with the reason for this war by articles written by various members 
of the faculty. Although this is but a college newspaper, and not a social 
science magazine, we believe that the importance of these issues warrants 
their discussion in the Tartan.
If a job is done well, there is no reason for not doing it in a pleasant 
way, and if we are doing our utmost for the war effort we certainly should 
have as much as possible in our few free moments. Our motto is whistle 
while you work, and the second part of our program is therefore an all-out 
effort to keep going as many extra-curricular activities passible. We be
lieve that in spite of the minute student body we should have intramural 
sports and even varsity teams, publications, fraternities, and all the other 
activities which can make our job pleasant.
The last but certainly not the least part of our editorial program is a 
campaign which will bear fruit only in the long run. Carnegie Tech is an 
excellent school, but it definitely has not reached perfection. We believe 
that now is the time to analyze and discuss the shortcomings of the faculty 
and the curriculum, so that we shall be prepared to improve the school as 
soon as the war is over. By unmalicious, and if possible, constructive crit
icism we shall try to point out the faults in the departments and the mannet of teaching, hoping that this will help to improve our school.
Time will show whether we shall be able to carry out all we are plan
ning to do, but one thing is certain right now. We Shall do our utmost to 
satisfy the students, and we ask only for their patience and their under
standing of the handicaps under which we will have to work.
Hats Off ?
Spring Carnival has come and gone, and thanks to the people behind 
the scenes who planned and executed the whole affair it was the event 
of the year. We would like to express everybodys gratitude to the members 
of the Spring Carnival Committee; I. Burton Faigen, Maisie Rial, Sally 
Bloom, Nick Reed, Merle Wolff, Nick Yarn, Mall Festenstein, Bill Robbins, 
Priscilla Dodge, Privates Sherman, Marcus Vaughan, and Van Deusen, and 
their advisor, Dean Murphy.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or th faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Sehenley Park, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. 
mONK MATTLOWIt *0# ________ PHONE 8CHENT.E Y 4M1
IO rom NATIONAL ADVMTIOINO Y
National Advertising Service, Inc.
College Publisher* Representative 
Car negiGos NvyB lyu Yonic. N. Y.
After Office Hours Call
Editor-in-Chief ...........................SC. 6888
Business Manager......................SC. 8951
Enter* aa tecont-ciasa matter In me Pittsburgh Post Office ander the Act of March I, 1879.
Published weekly daring school year, except holidays and examination periods.
Subscription Price SI.10 per year. ' *
Editor-in-chief ........................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor.......................................................................................Pfc. James Vaughan
Business Manager..............................................................................................Merle Wolf
Co-Managing Editors..................................................................Adeline Herlick, Al Perry
News Editor ..................................................................................................... Nick Georges
Feature and Sports Editor................................................................................... Sy Corwin
Copy Editor.....................................................................................................Jerry Brickman
Junior Editors...............................................................................Clara Herron, Mike Riggle
Circulation Manager....................................................................................... Chet Feinberg
AST Circulation Manager................................................................Pfc. Charlemagne Pettis
Reporters: Jeanne Boltey, Lou Emmel, Hannah Esterman, Marion Frangle, Bill
Gladstone, Harold Gottzman, Ray Grandy, Mary Horridge, Rose-Marie Lang, Helen 
Miller, Anita Newell, Georgette Paljug, Milt Perloff, Caroline Srulson, Jo Svirman, 
Ruth Tisherman, Alma Weinberger.
MilitaJuf. Cdifot Sfieakl
Color Scheme For March
From today, if one will glance about the campus, he will see an en
tirely new color brought sharply to his attention. Out of the welter of 
o. d., khaki, and red and purple combinations, he will see, blaring forth 
in all its conservatism, a deep, subtle blue.
Blue is an extremely interesting color. It is defined by Webster in his 
Collegiate Dictionary under Section 3a as Suggestive of devils and the 
flames of hell-fire ... Now, of course this formal definition must not be 
taken as indicative of anything at all. RememberWebster also defines 
brown as a color of low saturation and low brilliance. Both these descrip
tions have beeji refuted here in Pittsburgh by a few GIs from Tech. Es
pecially saturation.
The Navy has come or will come to Tech not for the purpose of follow
ing any sort of V-program. Their status here will be basically residential, 
and their length of stay, in comparison with that of the ASTs, probably 
minute. They are the gentlemen who are to handle those cute little LSTs 
and LCIs about which we hear so much, and in which we expect some
day to be adjusting bayonets on M-ls. Their training for their jobs is al
most complete. They are waiting here for their ships.
We bid the Navy welcome. At the moment, our voice is that of but a 
few score, but like that of William Lloyd Garrison, it will be heard. If we, 
the Army, chance to maintain our stay in Pittsburgh, we shall look for
ward to cordial relationship with the men of the USN. We introduce 
them to the Canteen, the Greeks, (4605 Forbes), the Department of Drama, 
Sehenley Park at dusk, and the Tartan. We wish them a how-do-ye-do, a 
pleasant day, and, wherever they go, a happy voyage and the best of it.
Grad. Record Exams 
Given To Fine Arts
Dr. J. Porter, acting head of the 
Bureau of Measurement and Guid
ance, has announced that the Grad
uate Record Examinations, given 
about a month ago to Junior engi
neers, will be given to Sophomores 
and Seniors of the College of Fine 
Arts on Thursday, March 30, be
tween 1:30-5:30 oclock in room 
104, Industries Hall. It will also be 
given again on April 3, at the same 
time and place. All participating 
will be given the same eight basic 
tests given the engineers, but those 
in Fine Arts will take a different ad
vanced test.
No preparation for the examina
tion is possible since it is just an in
ventory of what the student knows, 
no matter where he learned it. Stu
dents are advised not to worry 
about such subjects as math or sci
ence, for in the previous case, the 
engineers did well in unfamiliar 
Fine Arts subjects.
The results of the test will have 
no effect on scholastic standing 
since it is given purely as an experi
ment. Each student will receive a 
confidential report of the results, 
prepared in such a way that he can
.. ACAC Minutes..
Thirty-ninth Meeting 
March 22, 1944
The meeting was called to order at 5:20 
p.m.
Present: Merrs. Festenstein, Marcus,
Robbins, and Vaughn; Misses Rial, 
Schadel, Skillington, and Bloom. 
COMMITTEE REPORTS 
Elections
Mr. Festenstein read a petition from W. 
A. A. requesting that an election be held 
on March 28 to select officers for the year 
1944-45. He moved that the petition be 
accepted as read.
Motion defeated.
It was suggested that the date be 
changed to April 4, with the approval of 
W. A. A., so that all school elections may 
be held at one time.
Athletics
Mr. Robbins moved that the minutes of 
the Intramural Board meeting of March
21 be accepted as read.
Motion carried.
Mr. Robbins explained that there would 
be no sports swimming this semester be
cause of lack of interest among the pos
sible participants.
Social
Miss Rial read a petition from Inter
sorority and Interfraternity Councils re
compare his results with those of 
people in the same or different 
fields.
The test is given to the Sopho
mores for guidance and to the Sen
iors to present an objective evalua
tion of the mental equipment which 
they posses on graduation and to 
serve as an aid in comparing their 
knowledge with that of graduates of 
other years.
The basic interests in giving the 
test are: 1) To find out how the stu
dent compares with students of 
other colleges. 2) To use the results 
as a tool in guiding other students 
in their choice of occupation. 3) To 
afford the student an objective in
ventory, not subject to personal bias 
and interpretation and thus provide 
a scale whereby he can evaluate and 
contrast his mental capacities with 
those of other people.
On the Record
The program for the daily record 
recitals to be held in room 157, Fine 
Arts, between 12:00 and 1:00 is as 
follows:
Tuesday, March 27
Symphony No. 3 ..................Brahms
Wednesday, March 28 
Thursday, March 29  
Friday, March 30
Request programs.
questing the privilege of holding Greek 
Sing and Swing, a closed sorority and 
fraternity affair, on Saturday, April 1,
1944. Miss Rial moved that the petition 
be accepted.
Motion carried.
OLD BUSINESS
Miss Rial reported that as further pub
licity on Carnival mimeographed pro
grams would be distributed on campus 
starting Thursday.
It was reported that W. A. A. wished 
to take part in Call Day on Saturday afternoon.
It was announced that the dance on 
Friday night of Carnival would be from 
eight until twelve oclock, rather than 
from nine until one as printed on the tickets.
Mr. Reed proposed that the booths at 
Carnival be kept open Saturday night as 
well as Saturday afternoon, if the persons 
in charge care to do so.
Mr. Marcus moved that no keys be 
awarded to members of the Spring Car
nival Committee.
Mr. Festenstein moved that the dis
cussion be tabled until next week.
Motion carried.
Adjournment.
Respectfully submitted,
Sally Bloom, 
Secretary.

---------------------------------------------------

-that' wu 
0O battle"
V M 
'>tirroVv'
reptod"'
ne a"' ;le?beoe
ovator*
. it i* (19, *v
1 System 
i fore8-
Its Spring On The Campus, Tra la
Continued from Page 1 
Department were eloquent in their 
descriptions of the effects of spring 
in a short, hilarious burlesque of 
President Doherty and Dean Yon. 
Perry Jubilerer, a tap dancer, in 
spite of a floor that was frictionless, 
gave a creditable tap dancing per
formance. Paree in the Spring 
(with gestures) sung by Gerry Jedd 
reminded everyone once again of 
the season, while Lois Nosich sang 
the popular songs, Night and Day, 
Confessing, and Do Nothing Til 
You Hear From Me. The floor show 
was concluded by Professor Mascaro from KDKA, who entertained 
everyone with his tricks of magic.
Brad Hunt and his orchestra pro
vided both jive and sweet for the 
dancers on Friday night. However, 
the dance floor was not cleared as 
usual during a hot jive rendition, 
since several good jitterbugs pulled 
most of the dancers into a tight cir
cle to watch their complicated gyra
tions. A major riot resulted at the 
end of the dance when all 245 es
corts attempted to claim hats and 
coats at once.
On Saturday afternoon the enter
tainment of the hour was found in 
Thistle Hall, where thirteen fra
ternities and sororities had booths. 
Those organizations represented 
were Beta Theta Pi, Alpha Epsilon 
Phi, Kappa Kappa Gamma, Sigma 
Nu, Theta Tau, Delta Gamma, Gam
ma Gamma Gamma, Tau Delta Phi, 
Delta Upsilon, Alpha Kappa Psi, 
Delta Tau Delta, Beta Pi, and Delta 
Delta Delta. The most popular game 
of the afternon and evening seemed 
to be the Beta Theta Pi Duck-ABeta booth, where by hitting a small 
bell with a baseball one could see 
the most inspired sight of a lifetime 
a proud Beta in evening clothes 
tossed into a tub of ice-cold water. 
Displaying his prowess as a pitcher, 
Coach Max Hannum created a mild 
riot in the Beta booth, but Dr. 
Gregg,after throwing several balls 
concluded that the little bell could 
not be hit. Probably the most awe
inspiring sight was found in front of 
the Delta Tau Delta-Beta Pi booth 
in the form of a bald-headed genii 
that spoke in unintelligible gibber
ish. Inside the booth Casbah by 
name, were devious ways and means 
for parting money and person. 
Shades of the South Sea Islands 
were present in the Alpha Kappa
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
YOU AND YOUR
OUT-OF-TOWN FRIENDS
Will find comfortable accommodations
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
Be sore to make reservations well in 
advance, particularly for
WEEK-END VISITS
TECH MEN AND WOMEN ARE 
ESPECIALLY WELCOME
4415 FIFTH AVENUE
Opposite Mellon Institute
MAyflower 7700
Psi booth where romantic native 
women enticed people to part with 
their money in exchange for a game 
of darts. The biggest mystery of 
the afternoon was the Delta Upsilon 
booth. The boys from 5035 ForbeS 
had constructed a large booth and 
put nothing in it. When evening 
rolled around, however, .they ap
peared with a penny-pitching game. 
Refreshments were furnished by 
the Kappas in a miniature bar, 
while Alpha Epsilon Phi allowed 
people to leave with a package of 
cigarettesif they were lucky. Del
ta Delta Delta sorority read for
tunesfor price, and Delta Gamma 
sold popcorn balls. If anyone wish
ed to get even with one of the girls 
of Gamma Gamma Gamma, he was 
allowed to throw pillows at their 
faces. Theta Tau, Tau Delta Phi, 
and Sigma Nu all sponsored ways 
of losing pennies.
While it was generally conceded 
that it was impossible to win in the 
booths, there are rumors floating 
about that one couple came back 
from the afternoons entertainment 
with $3.00 more in money and prizes 
than they had when they entered 
Thistle Hall.
Two breaks in the activities of 
the booths were provided by a quiz 
program and Call Day. The follow
ing three organizations on campus 
issued calls: Pi Delta Epsilon, na
tional journalistic honorary; Cwens, 
national womens honorary; and the 
Womens Athletic Association, mak
ing awards for the achievements of 
women in athletics during the 
school year. The quiz program, 
sponsored by Dr. Daughertys Dan
dy Tonic, featured Hank Hanish as 
Quiz-Master and Burt Faigen as 
horn-blower. Five couples were 
picked at random from the audience 
and given a choice of topic on which 
they wished to be quizzed. The couWESTERN PENNSYLVANIAS MOST COMPLETE SELECTION OF CLASSICAL AND POPULAR RECORDS
604 Wood St. Pittsburgh
Fort Pitt is the Place 
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL 
MAKES
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
pies participating were Marilyn 
Ketchum and Jack Pollock, Becky 
Townsend and Art Naylor, Eleanor 
Wilson and Pvt. Harvey Sherman, 
Billie Macllraith and Larry John
son, Jackie Green and Bud Yorkin. 
In addition to the individual topics 
chosen each couple was asked the 
question, How many pints of blood 
has the Red Cross promised to de
liver to the Army and Navy this 
year? Jackie Green and Bud Yor
kin, answering questions on sports, 
received a gallon of ice cream with 
spoons to match. (To every per
sons envy). Art Naylor and Pvt. 
Sherman guessed exactly 5,000,000 
pints in answer to the grand ques
tion for which they received two 
wallets. Miss Wilson, Pvt. Sher
mans date, received a compact for 
the answer of 2,500,000 pints.
Late in the evening the members 
of the orchestra suggested a conga 
and the students immediately ac
cepted. For the next ten minutes 
the tortuous curves of the conga 
line entwined themselves on the 
gym floor accompanied by the usual 
kicks and hipswaying. In the midst 
of it was 3.5 plus factor man Paui 
Gibianto the amazement of all 
who noticed. Lois Frishkorn be
came Queen Lois at 11:30 P. M. with 
the crown of beauty placed by Sgt. 
Jaffe. Surrounded by her beautiful 
ladies in waiting Queen Lois com
manded that this shall be the nic
est Carnival ever.
The last notes of 1944s Spring 
Carnival sounded at 1:00 a. m. Sun
day morning. A rude awakening 
greeted the dancers on leaving the 
gym in the form of Old Man Winter 
in a cold drizzle. The festivities 
were not at an end for some until 
after they had attended the break
fasts given by the fraternities.
BF-TX. TELEPHONE SYSTEM
War calls keep Long Distance lines busy 
... Thats why your call may be delayed.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1944 THE OARNEOIE TARTAN

---------------------------------------------------

i___________________________________________________________THE CARNEGIE TARTAN_______________________________WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1944
WE SAW YOU THERE............SEE
From top to bottom, left to right: Some of the crowd during the crowning of the Spring Carnival Queen . . . Quizmasters Burt Faigen and Hank 
Hanish with victim Bud Yorkin . . . Dancing is thirsty business . . . The thing you tried to do all afternoon: a Beta is dunked . . . The old and new 
Cwens . . . Joey Sims orchestra, himself, and lovely singer . . . two Del ta Gammas put the finishing touches to their booth . . . The AEPhis are 
working hard . . . Who wants to gaze into the future with these two arguments for the present . . . the Delt corner at the dance . . . Spring 
Carnival a la Hawaii . . . One of the beauties on the Queens court . . . Miss Kelcy and the Navy . . . The PiDE members . . . Brad Hunt and 
Company . . . The Betas must be making money. Picture credit: Dick Bingham, Ed Sunshine, Dan Franks, Hank Hanish, and A1 Posternak.

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 2&, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN5
The Vacuum Cleaner^G/Uatt ^tlfuturibcUe
All The Dirt You Should Have On 
The New Semesters Top Three
Adeline Herlick, Ernie Lowenstein, and Al Perry, the new directors 
of the Carnegie TARTAN, in their first formal group picture made by the 
TARTAN photog with special permission of the TARTAN staff.
* *
Installed on the Tartan throne 
this week, as we hope you havent 
been made too forceably aware, is 
the new editorial trio which is ex
pected to carry you through anoth
er Pittsburgh summer seething with 
heat and bubbling  they hope  
with campus news.
Hes top man on Carnegies totem 
pole or last man out on the limb or 
the most indescribable men on cam
pus  entirely impossible to type. 
Hes not the perfectly sloppy Joe 
College, the rarefied personification 
of Reason, the suave and mais tres 
charmant, or the Man With A 
Cause. Hes a combination of all 
four with a generous portion of 
straight American humor to season 
the blend.. Ernie was born in Berlin, 
and was living in Holland in 1940 
when the Germans invaded that lit
tle country. For over a year he liv
ed under Nazi domination there be
fore coming to the United States. 
From his experiences about which 
our editor prefers not to talk, he 
says only that he is grateful, in spite 
of the horror of his memories, for 
the privilege of seeing the little peo
ple of Europe in their hour of great
ness, and being able to recall the 
incredible courage and spirit of the 
Dutch people under German domi
nation.
Ernie is not all dark clouds and 
dire forebodings, however. In fact, 
hes the friendliest, gayest jerk on 
the Tartan staff. His perpetual mo
tion laughing apparatus keeps us all 
hilarious. Neither does he devote 
himself entirely to the serious side 
of lifeet Tech. He is an ardent Tau 
Delta Phi, a member of the Mens 
Glee Club, the Progressive Discus
sion Group, and was just tapped to 
Pi Delta Epsilon, the journalistic 
honorary frternity.
Assisting our editor at the Tartan 
helm is Adeline Herlick, as one of the 
co-managing editors. Shes that tall 
girl with the beautiful black hair 
whose sojourn at the dear old Wom
ans Hospital threw so many mon
key wrenches in the Tartan publi* * *
cation schedule this semester. Ad, 
Adele, Aldyth, Adelaide or any one 
of the other eighteen namesnot 
including imprecations  shes re
ceived since birth, is a newspaper 
woman bred to the newspaper pro
fession. Since high school days shes 
been on school papers and although 
she has done social work, dabbled 
in the theater, and experimented in 
secretarial work, she has always 
come back to the news sheet. After 
graduation, she intends following 
her bent in either journalism or 
some form of publicity work. Peo
ple are her favorite stuff and she 
certainly has mastered the art of 
getting along wonderfully with all 
sizes and varieties of them. On cam
pus her extra-curricular interests 
have been limited to the Tartan, 
last years Spring Carnival Com
mittee and Pi Delta Epsilon by lack 
of time because she does so much 
work for the various canteens in 
the Pittsburgh area. Adeline likes 
to walk, to dancebut slow!, wear 
green to match her eyes, and play 
endless games of bridge.
And then we have another comanaging editor, Al Perry. Hes gor
geous, but he doesnt realize hes 
Gods Gift. We have strong circum
stantial evidence that he was born, 
but then againdo you read Lil 
Abner? Al is interested in all sorts 
of little things on campusTartan, 
the Radio Club, Pi Delta Epsilon, 
Alpha Phi Omega, andoh, purely 
academicthe curves plotted on 
MMCC stocking by seams. He reads 
anything, palms and bumps except
ed, and takes a million units to 
prove that people can be driven 
crazy when they already are. His 
favorite pastime is sitting in a cool 
dark place letting his little wheel 
cool down while listening to good* 
music. He tries hard to keep the 
populace from realizing that hes 
really a swell guy under those four 
layers of dichlorodiflouromethane 
distilled ice, but he has been known 
not only to melt but to sublime 
occasion.
By E. P. H.
Hear evil, and see evil is our motto; here is some of both. The little 
man with the flashgun sneaked around for some incriminating pictures 
couldnt find much, could heand the other gremlin with the invisible 
dictaphone dug up the dirt from under the tables. He listened to Alumni 
Corny Sarosdy and ex-Queen Judy Skeehan, Milt Friedman and Iris 
Kwall, and was dazzled by former Beta President Wallaces sharp Ensign 
uniform, and heard Lippy Hannum exclaim: Theres more action on this 
floor tonight than Ive seen during the whole damn basketball season.
Sammy HareJo Ann Bower Adeline HerlickBill Gladstone
Sonny LandermanRea SimonBill CarpenterDolly Willison
Lucy SeibertArt Bergland, Han
nah EstermanErnie Lowenstein
Jim StoneCaroline Cook
Milt LePattonAnita Stewart
Burt FaigenSally Rosenberg

---------------------------------------------------

6THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1944
^lal&l in Khaki
By Jerry Brickman
flight training at that field in highlevel bombardiering and deadreck
oning navigation.
. . . Another two Tech men have 
won their wingsDonn Drake and 
Jim Karns. Drake successfully com
pleted the Army Air Forces Ad
vanced Flying School training at 
Williams Field, Chandler, Arizona.
Jim Duncan
. . . Hes known as Aviation 
Cadet James Duncan Brown at El
lington Field, Texas, in the Army 
Air Forces Training Command, but 
in Pittsburgh and vicinity Jim 
Brown is remembered as a star foot
ball and basketball performer. He 
enlisted as an aviation cadet in the 
Army Air Forces in January, 1943 
and since then has been learning to 
plot the courses of the big Army 
bombers which drop their loads of 
destruction on enemy positions.
Donn Drake
. . . From Carlsbad, New Mex
ico, comes a report that Cadet John
B. Foulke will receive advanced
James Karns, who recently won 
the wings of a bombardier.
. . . Last May, Tales In Khaki 
made its first appearance. That was 
during the summer, and about all 
the news Tales In Khaki had to of
fer was the fact that a few former 
students were enrolled in the AAF 
or some unfortunate lad had been 
drafted. Since then, with the help 
of the Public Relations Department 
of both the Army and the Navy, this 
column has gradually improved, 
and it reached a climax. Now there 
is a need for more news. Informa
tion, letters from Tech men in the 
service, and picturesall these are 
needed. So if any reader has some 
bit of news he would like in the 
column, please drop it in the Tartan 
post office box.
Bach Choirs Baird 
To Join Navy Soon
Dr. John Julius Baird, who for 
the past ten years has given so un
tiringly of his time and effort to the 
Bach Choir of Pittsburgh, will con
duct his final concert on Tuesday 
evening, March 28th, just prior to 
his leaving for the Navy. This con
cert is the seventh annual perform
ance of J. S. Bachs Lenten oratorio, 
The Passion of our Lord according 
to Saint Matthew! The soloists 
will include: Miriam Schramm,
Philadelphia soprano and a former 
Bach Choir member; Sarah J. Lo
gan, contralto; Harold Haugh, 
Americas leading Bach tenor; 
James Achtzehn, baritone, who also 
is leaving for the Navy soon; and 
Edward Price, baritone.
After attending Oberlin College 
for one year, Dr. Baird transferred 
to Washington and Jefferson Col
lege, where he was graduated in
1930. He took graduate work in 
Education at the University of 
Pittsburgh, and at Washington and 
Jefferson College. His Master of 
Arts Degree in Music Education was 
received from Carnegie Institute of 
Technology in 1938. In 1942, the 
honorary degree of Doctor of Music 
was conferred upon him at Wash
ington and Jefferson. Aside from 
this extensive education, he has 
studied under Dr. Melius Christ
iansen, Father Carlo Rossini, T. 
Carl Whitmer, Dr. Harvey Gaul, 
and Arthur Jennings.
As a judicator of many cnusic fes
tivals and competitions in the TriState district, he has made good use 
of his splendid education. For the 
past five years, Dr. Baird has served 
as an examiner for the Piano Teach
ers Association. He is a teacher of 
piano, organ, theory, and composi
tion. Among the more important 
of his own compositions are his Or
gan Cantatas, which have been pub
lished by some of the leading pub
lishing houses of the country.
Second Contingent 
Of Soldiers Leave
The second phase of the depletion 
of ASTP personnel at Tech was 
completed Tuesday, March 21, with 
the transfer of the majority of ad
vanced soldier-Students to other 
units. These men followed in the 
footsteps of the basic students who 
had left some days earlier.
Those leaving comprised the sum 
total of civil and chemical engi
neers, and portions of the mechan
ical and electrical. A number of 
Foreign Area and Language stu
dents trailed along with the civil 
engineers.
While most of those leaving had 
as their destination Indiantown 
Gap, the electrical engineers went 
directly to Fort Monmouth, home of 
the Signal Corps. The eventual dis
position of those going to Indian
town, of course, is not known.
This latest deal leaves on cam-- 
pus the remnants of old Companies 
B and C, which have been consol
idated under the guidon of Com
pany A. Untouched so far by mass 
shipments is the group of AST Re
serves, which now revels in the lux
uriousness of Boss Ball.
Despite what would seem finality 
in the transfer of so many hundreds 
of men, with the consequent leaving 
of a comparatively insignificant 
number of engineering students, the 
outlook for those remaining is still 
shaded in doubt. There has been 
no definite statement made by any
one in authority to the effect that 
they would stay at Tech, and, until 
such announcement is made, their 
status must be classed as indefin
ite.
Muggsy Skladany 
Dons U. S. Navy Blue
Last Saturday Joseph Skladany 
culminated his seven years at Tech 
by boarding a train to Great Lakes 
Naval Training Center. Behind him 
he leaves a cheering student body 
before him, those hundreds of boys 
with whom he shared his vast 
knowledge of football.
As a student at Pitt, he played 
three years of football and in 1931 he 
was all-American end. After leav
ing Pitt, he played three years of 
professional ball, but left it in the 
fall of 1937 to become assistant 
coach at Tech.
His boys knew him as a friend 
who always had a cheering word, 
but as one who pulled no punches 
when dissatisfied. His assistants 
knew him to be a shrewd, calculat
ing leader who had little use for 
pessimism and even less use for un
due optimism. To his opponents he 
was a hard-fighter who could al
ways be counted on to keep his team 
in fighting til the final gun. Mugg
sy, as he was called by his friends, 
was always ready to risk all on a 
play or theory that he believed in 
and this action was typical in every
thing he did.
This is the sort of man we are 
now saying goodby to and we feel 
sure that he will do as good a job 
in his new position on the allAmerican team of 1944 as he did 
here.
There will be an important 
meeting of the staff of the Car
negie Tartan in the Pattern De
partment IH Friday at 5:00.
Square Dancing At 
Carnegie April 1 and 2 
Held In Thistle Hall
The Health and Recreation Com
mittee of the Young Womens 
Christian Association together with 
various other Pittsburgh Organiza
tions such as the Pittsburgh Bureau 
of Recreation, the American Folk 
Dance Society of Pittsburgh, the 
Physical Education Departments of 
the colleges in the city, the Urban 
League, and settlement house and 
summer camp groups, will sponsor 
a Square Dancing Training Course 
on the Carnegie Campus this week
end. The noted Mr. Lloyd Shaw, 
nationally known expert on folkdancing in America and expert call
er will direct the course whose pur
pose is to teach interested Pitts
burghers in social and athletic work 
how to call square dances and how 
to teach dancing effectively.
The course will consist of five ses
sions the first two of which are to 
be held in Thistle Hall on Friday 
from 4:00 to 6:30 and from 8:30 to 
11:30 P. M. Two other sessions 
will be held on Saturday from 10:00 
to 1200 A. M. and from 2:00 to 4:00 
P. M. followed by a dance Satur
day evening in the mens gym which 
will be open to anyone interested 
in square dancing whether he can 
dance the square or not. Sunday aft
ernoon there will be a discussion 
session at the East Liberty Branch 
of the YMCA on the corner of Spar 
and Alder Streets at which special 
questions brought up during the 
other sessions will be discussed.
A special square dancing orches
tra will be provided for the Satur
day night affair. Tickets for this 
event may be obtained at any 
YWCA in the city and at the down
town YMCA also. The rates will be 
75c per person for working people; 
a special 25 reduction will be given 
any college student who presents 
his credentials to the Y officials. 
Tickets will not be sold at the door 
Saturday night or anywhere else on 
campus before the dance.
Gloria Goldblum Gives 
Song Recital Sunday
Gloria Goldblum, senior in the 
Department of Music, will present a 
song recital in the Exhibition Room, 
College of Fine Arts, on Sunday, 
April 2, 1944, at 8:30 P. M. No tick
ets of admission will be required.
The program is as follows:
I
Le Chiffonnier........Breton Melody
Je suis trop jeunette... .Old French 
Recitativo ed aria (Orfeo), Del
mio core.............................Haydn
II
La Brise ....................... Saint-Sans
Cest mon village............Fourdrain
Ohe! les vieux marins ... Fourdrain 
Intermission
III
Es hat die Rose sich beklagt. .Franz
Marie.........................................Franz
Abschied...................................Franz
Standchen ............................... Franz
Willkommen, mein Wald-----Franz
IV
Irmelin Rose..................Carl Nielsen
Nostalgia ..................Matthew Frey
The Childrens Prayer.. .Max Reger
O that it were so! .... Frank Bridge 
Matthew Frey at the piano

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN7
SPORTS
THE GRANDSTAND
With the long respite from any 
major intercollegiate sports, ahead, 
there doesnt seem to be much to 
look forward to in the way of nine
ty-yard touchdown dashes or lastsecond winning baskets, but that 
still shouldnt put a damper on a 
sport-minded Techite. Last week 
we were sitting in the News Bureau 
office talking with Max Hannum 
about everything from basketball 
to politics when time began to re
verse itself and the subject grad
ually changed to a few amusing in
cidents that took place too far back 
for most of us to remember.
Well, began Max, this one hap
pened back in 1931. A tremendous 
crowd is assembled in the Yankee 
Stadium where N. Y. U. is host to 
Tech in a tight football game. Then 
suddenly one of our fellows named 
Elmer Vordeburg catches a pass and 
goes streaking downfield to reach 
paydirt. With one or two yards to go 
one of their boys makes a do-or-die 
leap at him and instead of pulling 
down Elmer, he pulls down his 
pants. Elmer refuses to walk over 
that extra two yards and quickly 
sets down.
We went over for the touchdown, but after the game the coach 
came over to Vordeburg to ask him 
why he didnt step over for the 
touchdown when he had the chance. 
Elmer, who always had a joking re
mark up his sleeve, looked at the 
coach quizzically and said I should 
stand up in front of 50,000 people in 
my condition?
Max was by this time just getting 
warmed up and he started to tell 
us about an incident concerning the 
late Chang Dunn who starred at 
center for Tech back in 1940.
Tech was gridding for their match 
with a certain football team and our 
coach thought he had one of the op
ponents pet plays all figured out. So 
he told Chang that whenever the 
opposing halfback gets the ball and 
starts to fade to his right intending 
to throw a pass, he should just drift 
over into the flat of instead of chas
ing the ball-carrier. This defense was 
practiced all week and finally the day 
for the game arrived. Sure enough 
the opponents started their pet play
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MILK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
By Sy Corwin
and Chang, sensing it, shifted into 
the flat. Just as planned, the ball 
went sailing right to Chang, but to 
Techs dismay the ball bounced off 
his chest and fell harmlessly to the 
ground.
After the game the coach came up 
to him and asked how he missed 
such an easy chance for a touch
down. Chang, still flustered, re
plied, I just couldnt believe it 
when I saw that ball coming. It 
was the first game we had scouted 
right all season.
Of course, no story would be com
plete if Max didnt tell us some 
thing about basketball, and he must 
have saved this one up purposely 
for last.
This happened a few years ago, 
Max continued, when we were 
playing Allegheny on the visiting 
floor. We didnt have a wonderful 
team that year, but Allegheny had 
yet to win a game in about twentysix starts, and I thought it would be 
a breeze for our boys. But with only 
three minutes remaining in the 
game, we were behind by ten points. 
The players were having a wonder
ful time whistling and throwing 
kisses at the girls in the stands and I 
was moaning on the bench because 
I would be ashamed to face it if we 
ever lost to a team like that. Well, 
in the last three minutes, we made 
twelve points, held Allegheny 
scoreless, and won the game.
I was sitting in the locker rodm 
after the game with my head be
tween my hands, still not able to 
comprehend that we had won, when 
Dave Brinn nonchalantly strolls up 
to me and says, Well coach, how 
did you like the way we paced our
selves through that game?
As we said so long to Max, he 
told us to come back and hed tell 
us dozens more, and you can be 
sure were going to take him up on 
that.
Sgt. Sommer Starts 
Girls Rifle Team
Anyone who might happen to 
pass by the rifle range down in the 
basement of Maggie Murph some 
afternoon would notice a slight 
change. Punctuated by the sound 
of rifle fire, there issues forth the 
sound of girls voices. And these 
girls are not just casual observers 
because, if you listen closely they 
are speaking the lingo of a rifleman. 
Then if you should open the door 
and walk in you would see them, 
girls dressed in green coveralls and 
wearing padded shooting jackets, 
loading blocks of ammunition, ad
justing loop slings, peering through 
the telescopes as targets and de
manding, Call that shot. Yes, 
there are girls on the rifle team, or 
more correctly, there is a girls rifle 
team.
It all started a few weeks ago 
when an announcement appeared in 
the Tartan calling for girls interest
ed in forming a rifle team. The re
sponse was good, for about thirty 
girls signified their interest by com
ing out. And most of them have 
stuck to it.
They started off the same way as 
the ROTCs and the boys rifle team, 
with sighting and aiming drill. This 
is an ingenious method used to pick 
those who have potentialities and 
to teach the fundamentals of aim
ing and looking for the sight .pic
ture. As the girls become proficient 
at this they are taught the intrica
cies of a loop sling, the nomenclature 
of a rifle, the correct prone posi
tion, and how to breathe in their 
shots. During this instruction they 
are carefully watched and constant
ly coached to make sure that they 
dont pick up any bad habits. Then, 
finally, they fire their first shots. 
Even then they dont actually fire 
themselves. Pulling, or rather 
squeezing, the trigger is an art in it
self, and until they have learned that, 
someone must do it for them. A 
cable release, similar to those used 
on cameras is attached to the trigIntramural Board Plans 
Ping Pong Tournament
The intramural board has an
nounced that an army-civilian pingpong tournament is to be held. Al
though the board has yet to approve 
the details, the plans are to make 
it an all-male singles contest in 
which no teams will be represented. 
It will be played during the week of 
April 1; however, entries must be 
submitted to Dean Murphys office 
no later than Friday, March 31. By 
entering this contest you can show 
who are interested in sports and 
thereby pave the way for other such 
events in the near future!
ger and thus the instructor can fire 
the gun.
The girls are quite enthusiastic 
about their progress, as is Sgt. Som
mer, the rifle coach. The Sergeant 
maintains that it is easier to teach 
someone to shoot if he has never 
fired a gun before, because then 
there can be no bad habits that must 
be broken. He has coached girls 
teams in the past when it was a 
regular campus activity and has 
seen girls who could shoot as well as 
any boy. Nothing has been done as 
yet in the way of scheduling match
es for the girls because they need a 
tremendous amount of pratice be
fore they reach competition calibre.
The boys team seems to enjoy 
the new venture almost as much as 
the girls. The two get along rather 
well, even though some of the fel
lows are afraid that some day the 
girls will be able to beat them.
Dance 
Where Its Young and Gay 
EVERY SATURDAY NIGHT
on the
CONTINENTAL 
TERRACEit it it * 
torn85 cents per person
Plu Tu
Have a Coca-Cola=Kia Ora
(GOOD LUCK)
.. or sealing friendships in New Zealand
Kia ora, says the New Zealander to wish you well. Have a Coke* 
is the way the Yank says it and hes made a friend. It says Welcome 
neighbor from Auckland to Albuquerque. Round the globe, 
Coca-Cola stands for the pause that refreshes,has become the 
high-sign between friendly-minded people. So, of course, 
Coca-Cola belongs in your icebox at home.
BOTTJEP UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COU COMPANY Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, PA.
Its natural for popular names 
to acquire friendly abbrevia
tions. That's why you hear 
CYca-Cola called Coke,

---------------------------------------------------

8THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, MARCH 29, 19442Thc (frarnecjU plaid
This week Im going to put my
2 cents in, chirped up an Engineer
ing student, whom you might call 
Richard Persohn seen escorting a 
brunette at the E. S. S. S. But the 
wind really began blowing in this 
direction when he informed me 
that Chuck Kirkbride, Electrical 
Engineering student, will have to 
make an extra trip to his ration 
board for an additional book of 
stamps. No! His wife doesnt need 
the extra sugar for canning, but for 
a 6 lb. 10 ounce bundle of joy which 
bounced in on (well of all things) 
St. Patricks Day. Bill Ryan is still 
fuming because Chuck wont call 
her Patricia and also laughingly 
teased that she will probably finish 
College altogether by the time her 
daddy gets his degree. But I see 
where Im treading in deep waters 
(and I cant swim) so while Im still 
living (and before Chuck murders 
me) what say lets change the sub
ject.
Say! What goes in Harmony class 
anyway? Seems as if that class 
works in shiftsjust like a swing 
shift. On Monday one group comes, 
and on Wednesday (here' Ill give 
you three guessesthe first two 
dont count) the other group drops 
in. We can keep up with the Prof., 
but tell me, can the Prof. keep up 
with us? Oh well, variety is the 
spice of life they say.
Seriously now, dont we all miss 
our soldier boys at Tech here? 
While they were here they respond
ed to our night school activities 
with eager anticipation of a glor
ious time, and now that they have 
left us it seems that the heart has 
been taken out of usthey grew to 
be a part of us.
Editor's Notice
The editorial that appeared in the 
March 14 issue of the Plaid concern
ing President Robert E. Doherty has 
caused some excitement on the cam
pus. I want it fully understood that 
the sole purpose of the article was 
to express our regrets that he could 
not participate in the evening 
school activities last spring* due to 
his many obligations at that time.
/fL/bO
iU\
11M WAR BOWD!
SatiiMlay Special
Dr. A. A. Bates DiscoversS. America 
Disclosure at Engineers Banquet
Place: Gold Room 
Roosevelt Hotel 
Date: April 1st
Dr. A. A. Bates, Manager Chem
ical and Metallurgical Department 
of the Westinghouse Research Lab
oratories, recently home from South 
America, will essay his experience
of a three month stay in Brazil for 
the Carnegie Tech Evening Engi
neers at their twenty-ninth Annual 
Banquet, Saturday, April 1 at 6:30 
P. M. in the Gold Room of the 
Roosevelt Hotel. His Impressions 
of South America will cover a 
digest of the social, economic, political, and, of course, metallurgical 
aspects of our neighbors.
Dr. Bates is a native of Elyria, 
Ohio. He received his A. B. in 1923 
from the Case School of Applied 
Science, and in 1931 he obtained his 
Doctor of Science Degree from the 
Ecole Superieur de la Metallurgie, 
University of Nancy, France.
During the period of 1926 to 1929, 
1931 to 1937, he was Professor of 
Metallurgy at the Case School of 
Applied Science.
In 1937 he joined the Westing
house Electric & Mfg. Co as Man
ager, Chemical and Metallurgical 
Research, the capacity he holds 
now. He had a leave of absence dur
ing the last half of 1943, during 
which time he was on loan to the 
United States and Brazilian Gov
ernments for work in South Amer
ica.
On the same program will be an
other speaker of prominence togeth
er with a variety of story tellers. 
The program will be preceded by a 
turkey dinner with all the trim
mings and followed by a lengthy 
floor show under the direction of 
Peg Lanagan.
Each individual will, upon enter
ing fhe room, receive a bag contain
ing a large number of souvenirs, and 
during the course of the evening 
many valuable door prizes will be 
distributed to the holders of the 
lucky tickets. In addition there will 
be a surprise or two.
Supplementary Schedule
Students following a degree program 
should schedule one of the following sub
jects, in accordance with information on 
pages 7-23 of the 1943-44 Catalog of 
Evening Courses: C-109, C-110, C-401,
C-465, C-501; E-20, E-21, E-22, E-276, 
E-801, or E-802.
Any student who wishes information or 
advice concerning his plans for the Sup
plementary Term should call at the Reg
istrars Office.
Eight-Week Subjects 
April 25 to June 16. 1944 
C-52 Trigonometry (8) M.W.F. 7:30- 
9:30, Ind. 135-C ($28.00)
C-53b Calculus I (8) M.W.F., 7:30-9:30, 
Ind. 135-E ($28.00)
C-54a Calculus II (8) M.W.F., 7:30-9:30, 
Ind. 135-F ($28.00)
C-54b Calculus III (8) M.W.F. 7:30-9:30, 
Ind. 128-A ($28.00)
?C-109 English Composition (9) M.WF., 
7:30-9:30, Ind. 235-B ($32.40)
?C-110 English Composition (9) M.W.F., 
7:30-9:30, Ind. 237-A ($32.40)
?C-401 Economics I (9) M.Th., 7:00-10:00, 
Ind. 236-B ($32.40)
?C-401 Economics I (9) M.Th., 7:00-10:00, 
Ind. 236-B ($32.40)
?C-402 Economics II (9) Tu.F., 7:00- 
10:00, Ind. 236-B ($32.40)
?C-465 Business Law I (9) M. W. 7:00- 
10:00, Ind. 127-C ($32.40)
?E-20 Mechanics I (9) M.W.F., 7:30 to 
9:30, Ind. 119-A ($32.40)
?E-22 Mechanics III (9) M.W.F., 7:30- 
9:30, Ind. 119-A ($32.40)
E-81b Physics I (7%) Rec. M.W., 7:30- 
8:30, F. 7:30-9:30, E. H. 100 
Lab. M.W., 8:30-10:30, E. H. 204, 102 
$27..00)
E-82b Physics II (7%) Rec. M.W., 7:30 
8:30, F., 7:30-9:30, E. H. Ill 
Lab. M.W., 8:30-10:30, E. H. 107, 
300-B ($27.00)
The Carnegie Plaid
Editor
Edward A. Macha 
News Editor
Joseph Rymar
Page edited by Evening School Students of Car negie Institute of Technology. All views or opinions expressed in editorial column are not necessarily endorsed by the Editorial Board of the Day School staff.Staff
Gladys Bayer Elmer Decima Norma L. DeLillo Mary DeMaria Doris Kenneweg Thelma Kitchen William E. KuskieFred Vichich
S. W. Marcinizyn E. E. McDonald Ruth McGraw Arlene McMurray Frank E. Mihelic Caroline Noll Dorothy Papa
Ten-Week Subjects, April 25 to June 30, 
1944
?E-801 Drwg. & Desc. Geom I (9) M.W.F., 
7:30-10:30, Ind. 346 ($32.40)
?E-802 Drwg. & Desc. Geom II (9) M.W.
F., 7:30-10:30, Ind. 346 ($32.40) 
Seven-Weeks Subject, April 25 to June 
10, 1944
E-276 Surveying I (6) M.W., 7:00-10:30,
S., 1:30-4:30, E.H. 60, 54 ($21.60)
The TUITION FEE for each subject is 
indicated in ( ) following the room
number. Students may register for either 
half or for both halves of subjects marked 
?; the tuition fee for either half of such 
subjects is one-half of the amount indi
cated in ( ) above. In registering, stu
dents should present their original reg. istration receipt cards. The $5.00 matri
culation fee will be charged to students 
who have not previously paid it. The 
general fee is not charged in the Supple
mentary Term.
REGISTRATION will be held during 
the week of April17 to 21, and on Mon
day, April 24, between 7:00 and 9:00, and 
on Wednesday, April 26, between 6:30 and 
7:15, in the Registrars Office. Registra
tion for the second half of the eight-week 
subjects marked ? will be held Monday, 
May 22, 7:00-7:30, for the second half of 
the ten-week subjects marked ?, Monday, 
June 5, 7:00-7:30.
The SCHEDULE OF CLASSES goes 
into effect Tuesday evening, April 25. 
Subjects with less than ten registrants 
may be withdrawn.
Beginning May 1, the Registrars Office 
will be open in the evening only on Mon
days. Students who withdraw before the 
close of the middle of the term of the 
subject scheduled may receive a partial 
reiund of tuition fee in accordance with 
the refund plan stated in each of the 
Catalogs of Evening Courses, 1943-44.
Things to Think About
(This is the ninth in a series of articles 
cles discussing the decline of registration 
in the evening school).
One by one courses have been 
suspended from the curricular of 
Carnegie Tech since the Evening 
Fall Term of 1942. Suspension is 
used to describe the retrenchment 
as it is felt that as soon as condi
tions permit these courses will again 
be offered the students.
Arranging curriculum and sched
ules for an institution as large as 
Carnegie Tech is a big problem 
which calls for consideration of 
many questions. When one consid
ers the evening classes additional 
conditions enter into the picture. 
The time students can come for 
classes is definitely limited and four 
hours is the most that can be crowd
ed into an evenings session.
With these two problems, suspen
sion of courses and arranging and 
rearranging of schedules, facing 
Carnegie Tech, in conjunction with 
constantly dwindling enrollment, it 
is no wonder that many adjustments 
have had to be made in the past 
year or two.
A marked difference is noted in 
the corridors in the various build
ings these evenings. The halls seem 
to be deserted and a low ebb of ac
tivity is encountered everywhere. 
Some evenings one hardly meets a 
person. Contrast this condition to a 
few years ago when there was such 
a hustle and movement in these 
very halls.
Keeping the institution open for 
the students is a very praiseworthy 
action on the part of the administra
tion. Although the same facilities 
which are used by the few attend
ing classes could accommodate larg
er numbers the fact that the cam
pus is being used is indication that 
there is still a future ahead of us. 
This should prompt us to question, 
what are we, as individual evening 
students, doing to help the situation 
along? Have we aided by being co
operative, or hindered by register
ing complaints for conditions and 
situations which could not be avoid
ed? Or, on the omission side, failed 
to register complaints when these 
were justified? Let us make a sur
vey and see what can be done to 
help.
Notice Ticket Salesmen
The report on tickets sold for the 
Engineers Banquet must be turned 
in no later than Wednesday, March 
29. There will be someone at the 
first floor entrance to the Industries 
Hall and if you cannot possibly get 
there Wednesday, please inform Jo
seph M. Rymar, Box 353, C< L T., 
of the number of sales.
