LAST CHANCE 
TO BUY A 
1924 THISTLEm lEfoton
BASKET BALL 
CARNEGIE VS. THIEL 
SATURDAY, 8:00 P. M.
VOL. XVIII.,NO. 16CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIATUESDAY, JANUARY 15 1924
IRWIN LAUGHLIN 
TO SPEAK AT 
GEN. ASSEMBLY
First Meeting of 1924 to Have 
Excellent ProgramDiplo
matic Experience is Theme 
of Speakers Talk
TO SING ALMA MATER
An interesting program lias been 
planned for the first General Assem
bly of the year 1924. Hon. Irwin B. 
Laughlin will be the speaker of the 
day. His topic is Some Experiences 
of a Diplomat During the War.
Mr. Laughlin, a native Pittsburgher 
and a member of the United States 
. Diplomatic Service for nearly twenty 
years, has accepted President T. S. 
Baker's invitation to address the 
general student assembly today, Jan
uary 15, in Carnegie Music Hall. Mr. 
Laughlin is one of the most distin
guished speakers ever* engaged to ad
dress a Carnegie audience.
He was born in this city in 1871 
and following his graduation from 
Yale in 1893, he entered the office of 
Jones and Laughlin, steel manufac
turers of Pittsburgh. From 1900 to, 
1903 he served as treasurer of the 
Jones and Laughlin Steel Company. 
Severing his connections with the 
business world, Mr. Laughlin in 1903 
became the private secretary to the 
American minister to Japan. From 
this post he was rapidly promoted in 
the diplomatic service, serving as sec
ond secretary of the American lega
tion at Tolcio, 1905-6; secretary of the 
legation at Bangkok and consul-gen
eral for Siam, 1906:7; second secre
tary of the legation at Peking, March 
to September, 1907, second, secretary 
of the embassy at St. Petersburg, 
1907-8; secretary of the legation to 
Greece and Montenegro, 1908-9; sec
ond secretary of the embassy at 
Paris, August to December, 1909; sec
retary of special embassy to the Sul(Continued on Page Four.)
BETTER ATTENDANCE AT
SCHOOL CHAPEL IS URGED
Chapel will be held as usual on 
Thursday in the Little Theater of 
tli Arts School. The time is 12:50 
p. m. The attendance at] last weeks 
chapel was very good, however, a 
better turnout is expected this week. 
Look for the black flag with the 
white cross next Thursday.
Musical Comedy to 
Feature Arts Ball
Designs for Decorations Are 
CompleteDues Must 
be Paid
Glee Club Will Hold 
Concert With P.C.W.
The Arts School is deep' in prepa
ration for the arts ball, the feature 
of which will be a musical extrava
ganza, five acts, in Joy of the Lan
terns,' a Chinese legend told in song 
and story.
The aulihor or the play is Herbert 
Polesie, who is known on the campus 
as the Carnegie Stunt Man.' Herb 
conducted the official rites at the 
buirying of the hatchet this year, 
and1 played the part of the Preach
er in tilie qualification day exercise 
last year.
. I-Ierb came to Carnegie from^HoT1 Plywood, California, where lie was con
nected with the Harlequin Plaiyers, 
and with the Los Angeles Theater 
Guild. H!e is instilling some of the 
spirit of the West into the play, 
which, it is hoped, will be the most 
gorgeous of all art ball shows.
The music has been written by 
Verne r Halden, and among the cast 
are Maiy .Skurkey, Mary Brown, Eva 
Spencer, Iiardie Albright, Obie New
man, Pauil McGrath, Joe Lazerus, Mr. 
Yui Alan Nern and Doc Taylor, 
Charles Schlessinger will be stage 
manager and Harry Mervis is ably 
assisting in the production. The 
sets are being designed by Kevin 
OCallalian.
The p'lay is set in the fourteenth 
century, afitler the time of Marca 
Pola, which corresponds with the 
period of the ball. It differs from 
the shows of previous years in that 
it is representative of every depart(Continued on Page Four.)
PITT GAME TO 
BE INFORMAL 
GYM OPENING
TARTAN STAFF MEETING AT
THETA XI HOUSE NEXT SAT.
Basketball Floor Will be in 
Shape for the Pitt Game 
Plans and Date for the 
Formal Opening Uncertain
TWO DANCES PLANNED
Recent Successes Encourage 
Further Activities
On the sixteenth of January the 
members of the Carnegie Mens Glee 
and Mandolin Clubs will go to the 
Pennsylvania College for Women to 
give a joint concert with the P. C. 
W. Glee Club. After the concert 
there will be a dance to which 
everybody is invited.
The members of the clubs have re
covered from the effects of the reci 
ent Erie trip, which was a success 
both musically and socially: espec
ially the latter, as the club sheik 
will testify.
The activities of !the clubs are in
creasing. Last Friday at the Lincoln 
Avenue U. P. Church they gave a 
, concert which was very well re
ceived. On Saturday, the second of 
the series of Musical ..Club dances 
was held. The Tartans furnished the 
music, and) some of the club members 
t Continued on Page Four.)
Benefit Bridge Party Will 
Be Given by Secretarais
Present indications are that the 
mens gymnasium will be completed 
in time for the Pitt game. Nothing 
definite has been decided in regard 
to the formal opening, which will 
take place some time later, because 
of uncertainty as to the date when 
the entire building will be ready for 
occupancy.
The overseer senti here by the com
pany which was awarded the floor 
contract started his crew laying 
blocks last Wednesday. When inter
viewed  tttie following day he said 
that ne was somewhat handicapped 
by being unable to use outside men 
in Pittsburgh because of restrictions 
of the 'bricklayers union, but that 
he expected the floor to be finished 
before February' 5.
Graduate Manager Overend has or
dered 2,766 seats. They are In the 
form of improved collpsible bleach
ers, somewhat like those used on the 
athletic field during the football sea
son. The seating arrangement was 
chosen so as to accommodate tho 
largest possible crowd.
The floor will -be laid within ten 
days. About a week will be used! in 
going over it with sand machines. 
Then tilie filler and varnish will bo 
put on and allowed to dry. The 
bleachers can be erected in short or
der.
(Continued on Page Four.)
GEOLOGIST TO SPEAK 
HERE MONDAY EVENING
Dr. John C. Merriani will deliver 
a lecture on Excavations in Yuca:t'an next Monday evening in the 
Arts Tlieliter. No advance report of 
the material of the lecture could be 
obtained, 'but it wiHl probably be con
cerned with palaeontology and geol
ogy as those are the sciences in 
which the speaker Is most intierested.
Dr. Merriani is president' of the. 
Carnegie Institute at Washington and 
is a member of the Executive Com
mittee of the Carnegie Corporatston. 
He was formerly professor of palae
ontology at the University of Califor
nia and has at various times served 
as the president of many scientific 
societies. He is the author of numer
ous p'apers on fossil reptiles and 
mammals and on the general history 
of geology' of Western North Amer
ica.
The lecture is intended! for faculty 
members and invited citizens of Pitts
burgh rather than for soidents. Any 
seats which are not taken are, of 
course, open to the students.
JUNIOR PROM WILL 
NEED SENIOR HELP
Size of Junior Class Causes 
Committee to Boost Up
per-class Sales
APPOINTEES TO "SKIBO
STAFF ARE ANNOUNCED
On Saturday, February 16, at McCreeiys, the 'Secretarial Clifl) is giv
ing, a benefit bridge to help raise 
the monty for a fity dffollar scholar
ship to be granted by them nexti year. 
All the girls on the campus, and all 
their friends are invited to come. 
The price will be one dollar a person 
or $4.00 a table.
The place, the amount and the 
company are all the best in the 
world. You will be sure to have a 
fine time, and perhaps win a prize.
The time is just far enough after 
registration day for all girls to have 
a little more money accumulated, and 
no money could be. spent for a more 
worthy cause than this bridge. Your 
money will help some girl through 
college.
Several, new. appointments have 
been made to the Skibo staff. C. 
Paul Crofford of the College of Fine 
Arts, and A. M. Kircliner and P. T. 
Morris of the Division of General 
Studies, are t6 serve as correspon
dents on the staff of -the Night 
School paper.
Besides these three latest appoint
ees the Skibo staff includes W. B. 
Hunter of the Department of Forg
ing and Heati Treatment of Steel; C.
G. Mundt of the Department of Elec
tric Equipment and Construction; F. 
R. Perrin of the -Department of Prac
tical Chemistry; W. D. Harr and G. 
F. Greene of the Division of General 
Studies. With such a staff the Ski
bo should1 exceed its own former 
record.
Girls Dorms Change Their Names 
Interest Grows As Numbers Wane
After all, theres not much in num
bers, except phone numbers? It is 
a well known fact that the person who 
gave the girls dorms their numbers 
was a cranky old bachelor who had 
been disappointed in love. No woman 
would have ever given a cold, unsym
pathetic number to express the youth, 
beauty, and life within a house. Ana 
it is up to the women to change what 
man has accomplished, to substitute 
their superior ideas for those of man.
Numbers must give waV to the 
power of suggestion! Down with 
mathematical things, forever and 
ever, a la Ivickler.
We herewith decree that from this 
day forward, the following names 
shall be affixed to the various dormi
tories, as listed below.
Forbes Annex shall be known as 
the Guard House, on account of the
I appropriate iron bars stretched across 
the windows, not to keep the girls in 
as you might suppose, but to keep in
truders opt.
Mellon Annex shall be known as the 
! Eagles Nest, because from this 
j stronghold, one gets a lookin on many 
secret practices, INCLUDING footj ball.
5064 Forbes shall give way to the 
I title of the Green House for within 
It are thirteen human flowers, and 
outside are nine different shades ot 
green paint, supplying the further sig
nificance of the name.
5072 shall go down in the annals of 
history as the P.Iousetrap, appropri
ate enough, seeing that the girls 
catch their daily quota of mice, every 
day and in every way, and there are 
no cats therein.
5080 has become The Burglars 
(Continued on Page Four.)
The sale of preliminary Junior 
Prom tickets will close Wednesday 
of this week. Returns have not been 
very gratifying to date. Buy your 
tickets now men! The Prom com
mittee has to know how many are 
going.
Every year there is a page in the 
Thistle on the Junior Prom. This 
page is always under the head or 
Carnegie Tech Traditions. Are you 
going to bo a slacker? Traditions 
here at Carnegie have been well sup
ported in the past and they must be 
supported in the future. Aside from 
these facts dont you believe there is 
some tfittle girl who is waiting and 
hoping for you to ask her?
The Prom Committee has been 
working since the last part of October 
arranging for tlje innumerable details 
Involved In running a Prom. They 
have finished all of this work. The 
student body should appreciate their 
work by co-operating and buying their 
tickets. The names of the salesmen 
will be posted on the bulletin boards 
so if the salesman doesnt come to you 
look him up yourself.
The enrollment of the junior class 
is rather small this year and support 
will be needed from the Senior Class. 
The attendance of the Seniors will be 
greatly appreciated.
The Prom Committee has'spared no 
pains in making it possible to have 
a Prom that will go down in Carnegie 
Tech history as the best ever held. 
Whether or not it will be rests upon 
the student body.
NEW PART TIME COURSES 
TO BE GIVEN IN M. M.
In line with the policy to extend its 
educational service wherever possible, 
the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
through the Margaret Morrison Car
negie College is now preparing to en
ter the home by offering a groilp of 
special short courses in home eco
nomics. Beginning in February, ac
cording to the announcement, five new 
part-time courses will be offered to 
any women who are interested in 
them.
Problems in Child Feeding, Market
ing and Mpal Planning, Dressmaking, 
Millinery, and Art Dyeing are the sub
jects of the new courses. A feature 
in. connection with the plans to give 
this work is the withdrawal of all 
academic requirements for enrollment 
in any of the courses. The only re
quisite, according to the announce
ment, is that applicants should be 18 
years of age or older.
All of tho courses will be given by 
the faculties of the Department or 
Household Economics and of Costume 
Economics. They are .scheduled to 
begin during the week of February 
4 th.
The attention of all members of the 
Tartan staff and all those trying out 
for it, is called to a meeting to be held 
at the Tlieta Xi house on Saturday, 
January 19, after the basket ball 
game. Plenty of excitement is in 
store for those who come to the meet
ing, cause Hank Simpson himself, 
lives there. Dr. Baker will be pres
ent and have a word to the staff.
THE ELECTRO 
METALLURGYOF 
IRON AND STEEL
Will be Discussed Thursday 
and Friday by Canadian 
Scientist of NoteDATES TO REGISTER ____
ARE MADE KNOWN LASTCH NELONSBCAH
New System Officially Sub
mitted by Registrar for 
Mid-Year
The following directions for regis
tration were submitted by Alan R. 
Bright, registrar: Registration and
payment of student fees to bo con
ducted in Langley Laboratory on 
Tuesday and Wednesday, February 5 
and 6 from 8:30 a. m. to 11:30 p. m. 
and from 1 p. m. to 4 p. m.
All day students should report early 
on tile morning of February 5th for 
the arrangement of the second semes
ter schedule.
Fine Arts Freshmen report to Head 
of Department.
Margaret Morrison Freshmen re
port to M. M. 100.
Engineering and Industries Fresh
men report to Director Day.
All other students report to head 
of department.
After the schedule Is approved In 
the Directors Office, class coupons 
will be issued which must be present
ed together with two copies of the ap
proved schedule at the registration 
room. This is the same system that 
was used in the September registra
tion.
Students who have been in attend
ance during the first semester arc re
quired to make a second payment of 
the Institute foes ' ($1)0.00 tuition and 
$5.00 Student Activities Fee). Stu
dents expecting to graduate In 1024 
are required to pay a djploma fee of 
$5.00.
Before second semestor classes be
gin, laboratory deposits must bo mado. 
Payments may be made to tho cash lor 
at the registration room during tho 
registration. The schedule of labora
tory chargoa is ported on tho official 
bulletin boards.
Regular day  students registering 
later than the official dates given 
above are subject lo a lato registra
tion fine of $1.00 per day to max
imum of $10 (Saturday and Sunday 
not included).
Students aro required to register in 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Council Passes More 
Student Regulations
Registration Cards Must be 
Presented at Dances
The Student Council, at its meeting 
lust Wednesday veiling, passod a 
motion requiring at least one of oacli 
couple attending the athletic dances 
and tea dances that are hold in the 
Union to have their registration cards 
with them and to present it at the 
door in addition to the regular tax. It 
is felt that! there are too many out
siders coming to these dances and 
that the accommodations are limited 
too such an extent that it would be 
best to make them all Carnegie as 
near as possible. The rule prohibit
ing smoking in the Union will be 
strictly enforced, also.
J. C. Major was appointed tempor
ary Business Manager of the Carnegie 
Tartan by the Council upon the rec
ommendation of Editor-in-Chief H. F. 
Simpson. Major is taking the place 
of W. B. Cunningham who has recent
ly become ineligible.
The Science Triangle Club which 
petitioned the Student Council for rec
ognition as a student organization, 
was reported on favorably by the 
Committee on Non-Budget Organiza
tions and was passed by the Council.
The Council, on the request of the 
National Association for the Enforce
ment of the Prohibition Amendment, 
went on record as favoring the en
forcement of the said Amendment.
Two lectures which will be or very 
great interest to tilie metallurgists 
and engineers of this district will bo 
given on Thursday and Friday even
ings, January 17 and 18, by Dr. Al
fred Stansfield. His subject will be 
The Electro-metallurgy1 of Iron and 
'Steel.
Dr. Stansfield is widely known on 
this continent and in Europe as an 
authority on matialliLrgical engineer
ing. llie has occupied the chair as 
Birks Professor of Metallurgy at Mc
Gill University in Montreal for a 
number of years. Among tho numer
ous honors which have ibeen conferred 
upon him by scientific organizations 
of both Canada and England aro 
Associate of the Royal School of 
Mines, and Fellow of the Royal So
ciety of Canada.
Dr. Stanfield has always had a 
deep interest in tilie application of 
electrical lieat.to metall'Uirgiyi, and this 
interest led him to write a book on 
Tho Electric Furnace, in which he 
traces the evolution of the electric 
furnace from its simplest) beginnings 
and sets :forth tho moro important 
facts relating to its theory and prac
tice.
1-Ie Is an interesting lecturer and 
there are many who rn'ill talco ad
vantage of hearing upltlo-dato lec
tures on tliiB subject. Tho locturoa 
will be at 8:30 p. m. each evening 
in Room 218 of the Scionco Building. 
No tickets aro necessary.
CITES TO MEET THURSDAY
TO ELECT NEW PRESIDENT
All Cites aro requested to bo on 
hand Thursday in tho exhibition liall 
at tho Arts College at 11:30 for tho 
election of a now prosidontl and! a 
discussion of plans for tho big bon
fire and rally to be held before the 
Pitt game.
Last Chance to 
Get Year Books
Pictures of Organizations 
That Do Not Pay Bills 
to be Withheld
CARNEGIE COMMONS 
HAS NEW MANAGER
Miss Portlock, Experimental 
Dietition, Succeeds Miss 
Woodward
New Lamps Ordered for 
Residents of Dormitories
The Singer Pen & Gift Shop in the 
Jenkins Arcade will give you reason
able prices on calling cards, dance 
programs, favors, school pins, rings, 
pillow tops, etc. They can repair your 
old fountain pen or sell you a better 
one.Adv.
One of the chief topics ofr conver
sation among dormitory men for the 
past month lias been in regard to 
j new desk lamps for the rooms. These 
) are supposed to have been, ordered, 
and dor ml tony occupants are expect
antly waiting for them to materialize. 
Such is t ho subfetance of certain ru
mors now in circulation.
However, (from san authoritative 
source It appears that these lxuros 
have indeed been ordered and are 
daily expected. Further than that, 
noth ing Is known of their presen I 
whereabouts.
Strictly speaking, they are not 
desk lamps, but adjustable drop lights 
and, as such, will add much to the 
convenience and serviceability of tbs 
dormitory rooms Too many rooms 
at present are unsupplied with suita 
ble lighting facilities, and to their 
occupants the arrival of new lamps 
will be no unimportant event.
Miss Klnetft Portlock, the now managor of tho Carnoglo Common hi 
making, a good atari; lit carrying-on 
whoro Miss Woodward left off, anti 
judging from her past experience and 
training for tho position as bos of 
tho men's cufotorla, her success is as
sured.
Miss Portlock Is a graduate of Iowa 
State University, with a Bacholor of 
Scionco dogroo in Zoology, and also 
holds a Master of Arts dogroo from 
Columbia Unlvorslty.
In practical oxperlonco, sho comon 
very woll equipped to handle lior Job, 
with past oxperlonco ranging from dlotlclan In hospitals, to sorvlco In tho 
Unilod States Army during tho Groat 
War. Among the hospitals In which 
Miss Potloolc has served aro: Johns 
Hopkins; Bellevue Hospital, of New 
York City; and eighteen months at 
tho Headquarters Hospital of Camp 
Gordon, In Atlanta, Georgia; followed 
up by the Veterans Bureau Hospital. 
In all of these hospitals she had en
tire charge of the dietician depart
ment, doing the entire buying, as woll 
as planning meals.
Friendliness and pep are said to be 
typical of westerners, and as Miss 
Portlock calls New London, Iowa, her 
homo, she ought to be assured of a suc
cessful reign as the planner of meals 
and handler of the student help in 
the Carnegie Commons. A large 
amount of Miss Woodwards success 
can be traced to her friendliness, and 
therefore ability to get the most out 
(Continued on Page Three)
K E VOTED PLACE ON 
FRATERNITY COUNCIL
At the last meeting of the Interfratemity Council it was voted to 
grant to Kappa Epsilon fraternity a 
non-voting membership in the coun
cil.  t
The fraternity organized and pre
sented its petition to the council last 
year. T:li is a mens social fraternity 
with members distributed throughout 
the three schools. Its house Is at 220 
South Rebecca street.
CARNEGIE CHEMISTS CLUB
HOLD INITIATION TONIGHT
The final campaign for the sale of 
the 1924 Thistle is now in full swing. 
If you havent been approached yet, 
dont worryyou'll not be neglected, 
it is during the campaign ending 
Friday, January 19, that the final ef
fort will be made to sell tho remaind
er of the original 1,500 copies of tho 
year book.
Adoptiing a somewhat different plan 
of campaign, the board believes that 
the new methods will tend toward 
greater effiicency and better rosults. 
Thore is to ibe a personal solicitation 
of every! single individual on the 
campus and each will bo asked to 
subscribe for a copy of tho year 
book.
Salesmen will bo Identified by a 
special ribbon and there need not bo 
any hesitancy in handing over money 
to tho individuals thus Identified.
An added) feature of tho campaign 
will bo tho placing of tables in tho 
corridors of all :tiho schools. Sales
men will bo stationed at those tables.
The Thistle Board wishes to em
phasize the fact that this campaign 
will present the final chance to ob
tain a copy of tho 1924 Thistle. 
Therefore dont turn away tho salouman thinking Oh, Ill buy one 
later.
Tho various clubs and other organ
izations on tho campus should note 
tho ruling to tho effect that iiinlosa 
tliwyi havo paid their 1)111 to tho 
Thlslio Board by February 15, their 
plcturoB will positively bo withhold 
from tho year book, Further notice 
may not bo givon. Early payment 
will lnauro the appoarunco of organi
zation pJctures In tho 1924 Thistle.
GIRLS JR. PROM 
SCHEDULED FOR 
FRIDAY, JAN. 18
All Class Dues Must be Paid 
Before Buying the Ticket; 
Not Later Than the Early 
Part of This Week
HOURS FROM 9 TO 2
ARMY COMMISSIONS TO 
HE OFFERED STUDENTS
Tho government unnounoaa that 
competitivo examination will bo held 
for appointments Lo tho offlco or sec
ond lieutenant In itlho United States 
Army. Gradualo of a recognized 
technical .school or R. O. T. C. men 
aro 'eligible for examination. There 
will bo over 100 men appointed.
An applicant muist bo ibolwoon tho 
ages of twonty-ono and thirty year 
at the time of appointment. He will 
bo fl-rst rqulrodi to pass a prelim
inary examination as to mental and 
physical fitness, if he passes this 
tost, ho may enter tho filial examina
tion which will bo hold on April 14, 
1924.
If tho applicami! is choscn for tho 
commission, his pay, to start, will 
amount to about .$180 a month. Each 
threo years, thereafter, lie will rocolve an Increase of five per cent. Ho 
may also receive promotions. After 
30 years of service, ho is privileged 
to retire at tihree-fourths Ills salary.
Further information and applica
tions may be had at the Military De
partment, Industries Building.
ELECTRICAL DEPT. WILL
GIVE ANNUAL SMOKER
On Friday, January 18, at 8 p. m., 
the Electrical students from all four 
classes, together with the members of 
the faculty of the department of Elec
trical Engineering, will assemble in 
the electrical laboratory for the an 
nual smoker. These get-togethers 
have always been a great success 
and have helped to build up the de
partmental spirit.
The program will consist of stunts 
by the different classes, a few humor
ous talks, movies, music and eats. In 
the past the Electrical smoker has 
been well attended and the one this 
year should be better than ever.
The time draws nearer and nearer 
to that promising event, the Girls 
Junior Prom at tho Hotel Schenloy, 
Friday' evening, January IS. All tho 
plans, are now completed and every 
girl awaits with eagerness one of 
tho biggest events on the college 
social program. Tliero is much en
thusiasm among both Juniors mid 
Seniors at Margaret Morrison over 
this event.
The financial problem, always a 
great one for such an affair , as this, 
has been solved by the class through 
their holding cake and candy sales 
and tea dances. The rummage sale 
last Saturday at the oorner of Broad 
and Larimer avenues, brought a sat
isfactory addition to the class treas
ury. The class as a whole has sup
ported 'very plan to make their 
prom memorable in itllie history of 
the school.
The class treasurer wishes every 
girl to understand that all class duos 
and all back dittos must be paid by 
the early part of this week. Tlioy 
should bo paid by tho publication of 
this Issue. When all your duos aro 
paid, you aro eligtblo to biuy tho 
Prom ticket) which will be on sale in 
tho lower front hall of Margaret 
Morrison. Tho girls who aro selling 
tho 'tickets will havo lists of those 
who are paid up and they will chock 
off your namo when yatii buy your 
ticket. But dont oxpoot your name 
on tho list if you bavontl paid all 
yom* duos. Tho Prom ticket will b<> 
$5.00.
Tho Irom Is scheduled to start at 
9:00 oclock, and not at olgiht o'clock 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Teknon to Conduct 
Campaign on Campus
C. H. James Named Chairman 
of Student Comm.
Booti after tho opening. of school 
for tho second (joinostor, 'tho drive 
for raising tho Student RolloC l'imd 
will bo eonduolod at Carnoglo. Tills 
fund is for tho relief of noody Euro
pean students and la dispensed by an 
organizaron formed for tho purpose*. 
It Is international In Its scope, and 
was woll supported by I ho student 
body) of CarnogloTech last year.
This year, a committee of moiri and 
women from tho Tolcnon Club Is to 
conduct tho drive. Tho Student Coun
cil has assigned the task, to Teknon, 
and tho members of the eommlltoo 
have boon drawing up tentative plans 
for raising) the fund. JVlr. C. H. 
Tamos :ls chairman of tho commi,0- 
too.
Reports from foreign countries in
dicate that the students of tho United 
States will havo a groat deal of out(Contlnued on Page Four)
Scicnce Triangle Holds 
First Organized Meeting
The Science Triangle Club held its 
first organized meeting Thursday aft
ernoon In the Rec. Hall of the Mar
garet Morrison College. This club 
Is now recognized on the campus, 
having been sanctioned by the Doans 
and the Student Council. No regular 
time or place for Its meetings will 
be decided upon until the schedules 
for the second semester are known.
It was decided to have the next 
meeting in the form of a get ac
quainted party, to which the mem
bers of the science faculties will be 
invited. The party will be held early 
In the second semester.
Students Try to Combat Snow
By Learning to Speak Eskimo
The members of tho Carnoglo 
Chemists Club are promised an ex
ceptionally entertaining evening If 
they will but attend the next mooting 
of the organization on Tubsday night, 
January 15, at 7:110 In room 218 
Helene, This 1s the occasion of tho 
annual Initiation of U19 now members.
Each pledge ha, after much earn
est and diligent research, developed 
a chemical process for manufacturing 
th% article assigned to him, Tho 
weighty judgment of the members as 
to the worth of these processes Is de
sired, so that the neophyte may re
ceive his just reward. Besides this 
fact, which ought to attract anyone, 
something novel in the way of nutri
ment will be served.
By DON GARDNER
Tho cold Bpell descended so sud
denly upon tw last week that wo were 
unable to order the month balls In 
which to hlberate our B. V. D.s has 
had at least one cultural offeet on 
tho - college as a whole. For some 
b'mo It has been the concensus of 
opinion that students of tho Colleges 
of Industries and Engineering aro 
what we might call III Iterate and ungrammatical, respectively. To ho 
sure, some of our sister Maggie 
Murphs have been Known to chatter 
In decidedly Immature language when 
tho moon and a canoe or porch 
swing provided tho surrounding at
mosphere, but then one must admit 
that they are seldom heard to make 
such a breach of grammar as to say 
I aint had a kiss for a weekal
though in such a case tlie truth may 
be a stronger factor than grammar.
The College of Fine ArtB may or 
may not speak correct English. II. 
is seldom if ever that one hears 
that lingo attempted by a be-knloit
ered denizen of those wildstheir 
sole means of communication ap
parently being a Jargon composed of 
quotations  rom tho romantic poets 
dollvored1 with the accent of a New 
York barkeop' who Is playing as a 
prima donna In Oshkosh with a new 
set of false teeth which are several 
NUY19 tor I-ico. noweyer If one 
apeales no English he cannot be un
grammatical at it so1 we are left with 
Industries and Science as the lone 
offenders.
Course in Eskimo.
As the papers announced last week, 
a severe storm covered the city with 
a mantle of cold and a blanket of 
snow. No sooner had ,1ihe Science 
(Continued on Page Four)

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTAN TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1924
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute o 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Council. ________
Entered in tho Postofllco of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.____________
H. F. SIMPSON ................................................................................. Editor-In-Chief
Telephone Schenley 9143
J. C. MAJOR......................................................................Acting Business Manager
Telephone Hlland 4011-J
KENNETH ARNOLD................................................................... Managing Editor
Telephone Schenloy 9189
FRED C. SMITH............................................................Assistant Managing Editor
FRED T. PHELPS.........................................................Assistant Managing Editor
SARA MAE EVERETT ....................................................................Associate Editor
Telephone Schenley 9220
MAMC S. DOWNES ...................................................................... Associate Editor
H H WILSON................................................................................. Associate Editor
W. WINNING ........................................................................................... News Editor
Telephono Schenley 9070
F. D. ROSSINI ...................................................................................... News Editor
Telephone Schenley 9070
A. S. ANDREWS..................................................................................... NowB Ed,torTelephone Schenley 9211
E. C. FRAZIER ................................................................................. Athletic Editor
Telephone Schenley 9143
A. E. KROGII...........................................................................................Alumni Editor
R. W. SLEATH ..................................................................................... Photographer
W. K. JEFFREY ............................................................................ Exchange Editor
E. P. COUSE, ............................................................................................................. Art Jd!irDON GARDNER ................................................................................ Special Writer
T. J. DEMPSEY 
B. BROUDY .... 
W. M. GIBSON...
.............. Circulation Manager
Assistant Business Manager 
,. ;..........Advertising Manager |
HOLMES LECTURES 
ARE INTERESTING
Record Crowd Attends the 
Lectures on Latest 
Chemistry
EDITORIAL ASSISTANTS 
Estelle Garibaldi, Elizabeth Jane Gordon, Wilma Stlner, Carol Foight, 
Margaret McFall, Rosemary M. Cambridge, Nora Willetts, Mary OBrien, 
Aimed Plmro, N. C. Weser, V. B. Smith, L. II. Harris, E. L. Johnson, J. M. 
Goss, F. L. Wagner, F. M. McClelland, J. M. Early, D. M. Davidson, M. W. 
Gay, F. L. Ford, E. E. Kearns, C. ALundqulst, E. L. Kennedy, E. William 
Ekdahl, Lillian Cunningham._____________________________
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
Helen Corrao, G. E. Jacoby, J. Christoff, H. P. Ransbach,
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
D. Moskovltz, J. W. Metro, P. Edle, R. L. Sandrock, A. Grodner, A. Barbrow, A. Perretn, Leo C. Osberne.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper; the 
Managing Editor for tho make up.________________________________________________^
Tho Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest If signed. 
Signature will bo withheld if desired. All nows items must be in the Btudent 
postonico before 4:30 Thursday.
1:20,
Tartan OillceRoom 5-A, Industries Building. Oiflce hoursDaily 12:30-
PUTTING THE PUBLICATIONS ON A NEW BASIS
Last week at its regular meeting the Student Council proved it
self a pretty wise bunch of men, und a much wiser bunch than the 
ones which havo represented the Student Activities Board in the past. 
The merger of these two bodies into one has proven time and time 
again, not only a wise move, but a very beneficial one to the various 
undergraduate non-athlctic activities on the campus. It is a good 
business move that tends to bring all matters under one centralized 
control. This is true because of the ability to place all blame for any 
mismanagement upon one man.
Under the old system for handling all student activities by the 
Student Activities Board, and all student government matters by the 
Student Council, many conflicts of authority arose, and inefficiency 
resulted. This resulted in a certain laxity in tho management of some 
of the activities.
This was first remedied by combining, as shown above, these two 
organization) making it possible for one body to act finally upon all 
matters. The next step is that of appointing a Graduate Manager of 
Activities, and steps towards this goal aro being planned.
But to gel; back to the original subject.
By a motion passod in tho last Wednesdays Student Council 
mooting, all publications on tho campus wore automatically placed 
entirely under tho control of tho Editor-in-Chief.. This means that 
tho .ISditor-in-Ohiof is diroctly responsible to tho Student Council for 
both editorial and business policios of tho paper. This furthor means 
that If mismanagement occurs, the Editor-in-Chief is responsible1.
There can bo but one result: hotter publications, and more care
ful mnnagomont of student funds. Much credit for tho passing of 
this motion is duo II DELTA EPSILON, for they fostered the idea, 
and proposed it before the Student Council. And, tho fact that tho 
Student Council passod it only goes to show that its wisdom is great
er Hum Hint of the old Student Activities Board, for they, too, had 
a ehnneo to puss the snmo motion once upon a time.
INTEE-FltATERNITY CO-OPERATION
Fundamentally nil College Fra torn ties aro tho same that i>s to 
say they nil havo practically tho snmo ideals. Down deep within tho 
soul of every fraternity, regardless ol! how it is expressed, or what 
tho terminology may bo, the deepest-rooted purpose is to better man
kind and his relations between each other, .In times remote, in 
endeavoring to fulfill this ideal, perhaps devinlions were mndo from 
tho best path of remember thy followmnn," and a less desirable 
path followed of: servo thy own fraternity men first even though it 
bo at the expense of other fraternity men. This practice is not en
tirely gone, but it is surely on tho wane.
Why? The answer lies in the Inter-Fraternity Council of Amer
ica, aided by its various member councils in the different colleges of 
the Country. This council recognizes the fact that fundamentally all 
fraternities are the same, only wearing different badges, and that 
they are all working for a common goal, but using different and sepa
rate governing bodies as a medium. Realizing nil of this, this coun
cil is trying to bring the vast power of hundreds of different bodies 
into one great big body, and work for the common good of all, and 
still retain eachs distinctive difference, which is mainly in name 
only.
The Carnegie Tech Inter-fraternity Council is a member of the 
National Undergraduate Inter-fraternity Council, which is a council, 
separate but still attached to the General Inter-fraternity Council 
composed of college graduates. This undergraduate council was 
formed by the graduate council because a need was felt for a council 
of men still in college to work in conjunction with older men, and 
thereby receive the benefit of their experience along fraternal 
matters.
.The wisdom of their action is already being appreciated, for the 
active chapters of all fraternities are working better as a combined 
group for the common good of all, then they did each working sep
arately.
The good that the Council is doing at Carnegie cannot be ap
preciated unless broadcastod, and since there is nothing to hide, but 
a lot to tell, there will bo a series of stories and editorials acquainting 
the students as a whole with tho various elevating influences of this 
body. Tho doings of college fraternities aro not near so secret as is 
customary for evoryono to believe.
STUDENT CALENDAR^
TUESDAY, JANUARY lf>
Gcnornl Assembly.-..........................................I I lit) A. ST., Music Hull
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 16
A Bird in Hand...............................8;lfi 1. Little Arts Theater
THURSDAY, JANUARY 17
Chapel.................................................12:50 P. M.. Little Arts Theater
Alfred Stansfield Lectures.....8:30 P. M., Room -IS, Seienee Building
A Bird in Hand...............................8:15 P. M., Little Arts Theater
FRIDAY, JANUARY IS
Alfred Stansfield Lectures.....8:30 1. M., Room 218, Science Building
A Bird in Hand...............................8:15 1. M., Little Arts Theater
Girls Junior Prom......................................8:00 P. SI., Hotel Schenlev
SATURDAY, JANUARY 19
Basket Ball GameCarnegie vs. Thiel..........................................Here
Student NightA Bird in Hand..S:15 P. Jr., Little Arts Theater
Lecture by Dr. Slerriam......................S :30 P. M Little Arts Theater
FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 1 
Mens Junior Prom.........................................................Hotel Schenlev
Recent discoveries In the applica
tion of colloid chemistry to the prob
lems of many processes wore explain
ed by Dr. Marry H. Holmes of Oberlin College in the series of three lec
tures given here last week. The sub
jects dealt with various phases of 
colloid chemistry, tho general subject 
being discussed Wednesday.
On Thursday night Dr. Holmes lec
tured on Emulsions, the way to form 
emulsions as well as demulsifylng so
lutions. He discussed two main 
classes, one In which oil molecules 
drops aro put in water and the other | 
the result of water drops In oil.
The lecture on Gels was extremely 
Interesting, especially to the women 
who wero present. Many never rea-| 
liz'ed before tho conditions that really 
exist In the formation of gels. These 
facts were all brought out clearly. Dr. j 
Holmes has a wide knowledge on tlilp 
subject.
Largo audiences of Pittsburgh j 
scientists and students heard Dr. 
Holmes. "Colloid Chemistry," he 
I, "Is tho chemistry of grains, 
drops, bubbles, filaments and films. 
Strictly speaking, at least one dimen
sion of these grains, drops, etc., must 
be from one millionth of a millimeter 
to one hundred times as great. In 
fact, colloidal particles are just too 
small to be seen with the best micro
scope and just a little larger than 
molecules. These minute particles 
of matter may be dispersed in liquids, 
solids, or gas, o rthey may be loosely 
aggregate as in cheese, muscular tis
sue, cellulose, and other familiar ma
terial.
Colloid chemistry is closely relat
ed to the problems of lubrication, ag
riculture, do-watering oils, purifying 
clays, catching offensive or wasted 
fumes, drying, washing, dyeing, roadmaking, photography, water purifica
tion, sewage disposal; and one should 
know a good deal about colloid chem
istry if he is to manufacture rubber | 
goods, glass, porcelain, enamels, ce
ments, alloys, fungicides and insecti
cides, dairy products, any cellulose 
ester materials, colloidal fuel, gela
tine, glues, gas masks, adsorbent gels, I 
paints, varnishes, soap, inks, oils, 
pencils and crayons.
"Many wheats, such as California 
wheat, yield weak gluten Hours. Such 
gluten in the bread dough does not j 
stretch well enough for a good loaf, j 
and admixture with a strong gluten] 
flour Is necessary. The protein of 
corn, ryo, and other grains Is "weak 
In tho sense that It does not permit 
the manufacture of a satisfactory 
light, porous loaf. The colloid chem
ist who can so change tho physical 
condition of corn or ryo or oat protein 
that it will stretch like the best 
wheat gluten will add untold wealth 
to the world, and have much to do 
with checking famlnos.
"The de-Inklng of old newspapers Is 
a conservative measure of first im
portance. S. D. Wells reports that 
this may now he done successfully 
and tho pulp worlcod over into paper. 
It In easy to looson tho carbon black 
by dissolving tho varnish with alkali, 
hut unfortunately tho paper fibers 011- 
moBh the loosened carbon. However, 
by adding to tho wot pulp some Dyomlng bontonito, a highly colloidal 
'transported, volcanic ash, tho car
bon will ho absorbed by tho clay rath
er than by the paper. This, bentonite 
In no llnely divided that a water sus
pension of It passes through a Alter 
paper evon though It carry tho car
bon with It. Oyer seven thousand 
tens ol! newspapers are prlntod dally.
'Shoppard and Bates havo Invented 
a process for peptizing, or subdividing 
to colloidal size of particle, powdered 
coal In fuel oil. The coal, evon tho 
worst grades, Is pulverized until nine
ty-live per cent will go through a onehundred mesh sieve and olghty-llvo 
per cent through a two-lmndrod mesh 
sieve. StirrodJ with fuel oil carrying 
less than one per cont of the poptizing agent, a remarkably stable liquid 
suspension is obtained. 29 much as 
forty per cent of it may be coal, and 
yet it is so fluid that it can be spray
ed like fuel oil and burned under boil
ers. This colloidal fuel would be ex
cellent for ships, partly because the 
lire hazard is less than of oil. As the 
fuel is heavier than water a fire could 
be put out without serious trouble. 
The cumbustion of such, a sprayed' li
quid is so good that the lowest grade 
coals, even lignite, can be utilized.
"Metals and alloys, at a certain 
stage of their existence are in a collodal state, and, although this stage 
may ho brief, a portion of the metal 
or alloy tends to remain in the col
loidal state and exert a powerful in
fluence upon the physical properties 
of the final solid mass.
Bach year at this time, the futility 
of examination as a competent method 
for determining academic growth is 
brought homo to students and faculty 
alike. A few nights of intensive and 
judicious cramming and the credits 
aro ours. It really doesnt matter 
what the quality of the work done 
during the semoater has been, if one 
only is good on remembering what he 
has worked on the past twenty-four, 
hours. What lio will remember of the 
material at tho end of the year is not 
important and the fact that his brain 
processes have been stimulated on 
but one side is of no great account.
It is Interesting to see what a Cor
nell professor has donr* with the sub
ject of examinations In a science like 
chemistry. He has taken no class at
tendance, assigned no regular labora
tory hours but he has held personal 
conferences and work done for him is 
of a much higher grade than that 
done under tho^old hammer and anvil 
method. 1-Ie reports more laboratory 
work done in the science than re
quired, a keener interest In the sub
ject and he says he feels that the 
course has been of more value than 
those which lie had given under the 
old system.
If such a science as chemistry can 
be handled in this way, It Is plain to 
bo seen that any of the less exact 
college subjects might be as well 
done. That the students gets as much 
out of the personal contact with his 
instructor as he gets out of the mere
ly routine class drill is certain be
cause of the human touch afforded.
The Cornell teacher did not care 
whether his students worked during 
the regular laboratory hours when 
there were laboratory assistants there 
or not. But that point of view is de
pendent upon the force per square 
inch which the roof of the laboratory 
is capable of resisting.
Columbia is taking similar steps on 
this examination question, but unlike 
the Cornell professor who used no def
inite academic, standard as a pre-re
quisite the New York, City school is 
making it necessary for the student to 
have established work of a certain 
grade before doing more comprehen
sive work.
Swarthmore is establishing a sys
tem of her own and the plan seems to 
gaining a foothold in many other col
leges.
The student who detests his routine 
work, which admits of no time for 
thinking about his subject more than 
that required to mentally masticate 
every little piece of knowledge which 
is forced upon him every (lay, might 
well breathe a sigh of relief at being 
allowed to read three books a semes
ter on such a course as psychology 
than to be forced to memorize each 
seeUion of one as it arises without 
more than a weekly'coherent applica
tion to the whole.
The stimulus of meeting a professor 
overy week for an hours talk on the 
w|Drlc with its attendant (conversa
tional quizzing and opportunity for 
eloarlng up all tho points in the work 
and of definitely gathering together 
the points of interest which have been 
aroused by unhurried reading aro go
ing to bo of intensely greater value 
than aro tlio cut and dried, sink or 
swim mothoda which have been en
dured 91 long that tho moss of custom 
Is choking tho lifeblood out of tho 
scholastic tree.
Tho above 1s an excerpt from the 
Oborlin Review. It Is, at least, a con 
sohition that others too aro anxiously 
awaiting tho taking of a atop which 
Is Inevitable. Why dooB Carnegie not 
lineup with tho progressives?
NATIONAL MUSIC SOCIETY 
HONORS J. VICK O'BRIEN
SNAPSHOTS OF 1924 
OPENS TOMORROW
Opening Performance to be 
Known as Carnegie Tech 
Night
The Junior League of Pittsburgh 
will present "Snapshots of 1924, a 
musical comedy in two acts, at the 
Schenley Theater, beginning tomor
row evening, January 15, at 8:15 p. m. 
The play will continue for three
In the early years of the existence 
of our school, there were not so many 
students as there now are, so everylionorable and involved as that work 
is. It means, also management of 
large cafeterias, supervising hospital 
kitchens, feeding under-nourished 
one knew everyone else, and knew children, research along scientific 
what courses he or she was pursuing; j lines for new dishes and methods of 
furthermore, everyone had a general | preparation for the things we eat; 
conception of the nature of the work and what man will not back up any of 
of each of his fellow students. As j these, especially, the latter? 
the Carnegie Technical Schools have j The department of Household Ecogrown into the Carnegie Institute of | nomics is doing work along lines of 
Technology, and the apprentices i which few of us dream. It will not 
school of the early days has attained j be possible to go into detail, but tho 
the dignity of the College of Indus-j fact remains that the world is not, 
tries, that condition has been chang-1 in general, given to flattery when 
I ed, and we flnd many students quite things to eat are concerned, and sonights.
Wednesday night will be "Carnegie | ignorant of the work pursued within! we may consider ourselves justified.
in being proud after taking a look at 
the locations of recent graduates. 
Among last years "crop we observe: 
Edinboro, Pa.; Belmare, N. J.; Smith 
College; Waterford, Pa., Pittsburgh, 
Pa.; Grand Junction, Colorado; CarTech Night, and numbers have been j the other colleges, and often quite 
added to program for that perform-1 hazy about the departments within 
ance which will appeal to Carnegie | his own school. It is one of the purstudents "The Collegiate Imps will j poses of this column to eliminate 
play several selections and some stuj such ignorance, For the Good of Cardents of the Drama Department will | negle.
appear In a short act 'Our theme tor this week, will be a neEie Commons, Philadelphia, Pa.;
The p'ay has heen staged uader the late chapter ia the history ot Car-j Nashville, N. C.; New York City;direction of Mr Charles S. Morgan.  , tl)e D tmcnt of House-North Braddock, Pa.; Tareatam. Pa.
hoW Economlcs in M M_ i3 one o th0. Graduates of earlier years may be 
oldest in the Institute. We will not|^ouni* Lincoln, Neb.; Irwin, Pa.; 
concern ourselves with the history, Caldwell, Ohio; Philadelphia, Pa.; 
for not long ago an erstwhile candi-| nox ^>a,: Salem, N. C.; Ithaca, N. 
date for the presidency aSserted that i : Denver, Colo.; Lafayette, La.; 
"History is Bunk, so well leave it | Independence, Kansas; Ben Avon, 
alone and turn to things of the morei^*aCincinnati, Ohio; New Castle,
recent past. ^aA glance over the catalog of M. M.! sPea^c a good deal about advertells us that the department offers | Rising the school, and urge the benedegrees In three courses, which may derived from the winning of
and some special musical numbers 
have been composed by Mr. Paul 
Dicky, who has direted some of the 
student plays at Princeton University. 
In addition to the principals there 
will be a large and well trained 
chorus. As much^time has been spent 
in rehearsal, it is believed that the 
play will be something much better 
than the usual amateur productions. 
After the final performance, on Fri
day night, there will be a supper held 
at the Schenley Hotel.
The proceeds are to establish a 
girls home in Pittsburgh. The Junior 
League has the backing of the Chil
drens Aid Society, the Travelers Aid 
Society, and other local philanthropic 
organizations. Tickets are from fifty
be roughly classified as science, die
tician and supervisors of nutrition, 
and. commercial liousekepeing.
Referring to the late Daniel Webs
ter we are informed that Household 
means (when used as an adverb) of 
or pertaining to domestic affairs/
cents to three dollars, and may be | Under Economy, he says: The sysobtained at Mellors. ' j tem by which anything is managed.
In other words, Mr. Webster was of 
E4I i^. | the opinion that Household EcoKafllO Loncert VjlVCIl I nomics is the science of systematizing
| domestic affairs. He was correct, too, 
Dy nipp Plllh hut he did not see far enough to reaUy VJlllij VjIUU j yv/jQ the changes that would come in<
. , _! the world within a few years of his
. r o death. Domestic management liowa-i^irst Attempt Or oeason clays, does not necessarily mean feed
ing a big brute three squares a day,Proves Successful
Last Friday evening the 'Carnegie 
Tech Girls Glee Club gave their first 
concert ol the season at the KDKA 
broadcasting station at the Pitts
burgh Post Studio. The program was 
unusually interesting and made it 
possible for the friends and relatives 
of the clubs members to hear and 
enjoy tho special entertainment for 
which the girls had worked earnest
ly. The program was well balanced, 
including all types of song which 
would make a universal appeal over 
such an instrument as the radio.
Their first concert was successful and 
augers well for ;t.he coming concerts, 
among which is the home concert.
Included in the program Friday I jnthecou*rse 
were: 1
Tho I-Iawthorno^Tree.......... .Wooler
Summer Night....H. Cough-Leighter
One Spring Morning............E. Nevin
Land1 of Memory.....................Marshall
Indian Mountain Song............Gadman
I Hear Bees A-IIummin...................
......................... Bajinbridge-Zamecric
My Lary Cole........1-1. Cougih-Leighter
They Met on a Twig of a Chestnut
Tree ..................................... Robinson
The Whispering of tho Welkin.... 
................................................ Marshall
athletic contests in the way of pub
licity. It is all very good, and we 
cheer as loud as anyone, and we are 
as hoarse as anyone at the end of the 
contest, but confidentially, dont you  
think that silent advertising through 
the performance of graduates is much 
more efficient, though perhaps less 
noisy? We do.
Yours, For the Good of Carnegie.
LECTURES OFFERED IN 
IRON AND STEEL MAKING
Much interest has been aroused, 
apparently, among the iron and steel 
industries in Pittsburgh over the Car
negie Tech announcement that a new 
short course on the "Principles of 
Iron and Steel Making will be offered 
next week. Inquiries always received 
from prospective students indicate 
that there will be a large enrollment 
Monday evening, January 21st. Man
ufacturers are co-operating with the 
school authorities by encouraging 
their employes to become interested
One of the factors that will doubt
less lead to a heavy enrollment is the 
withdrawal of any scholastic require
ments of a student to enroll. Accord
ing to the announcement, any one in
terested in the various processes of 
iron and steel manufacture is eligible 
to take the work.
The course will be given on Tues
day and Thursday evenings, from 8 to 
9:30, by the Department of Metallurgy 
in the College of Engineering. Twenty-six classes, consisting chiefly of lec
tures to be followed by informal dis
cussions, have been scheduled, begin
ning next week.
The lectures will cover principles 
of chemistry and physics and techi nical information of various proThe Plobes of the Arts College | cesses used in manufacturing iron and
HEAVY HAND OF SOPHS 
FELT BY ARTS PLEBES
wore again reminded of their lowly | steel, 
position among men in a snappy trial
AUTOMOBILE MECHANIC 
COURSE ESTABLISHED
A new short course for automobile 
mechanics has been established at 
Carnegie Institute of Technology and 
will ho given during tho next, four 
months In co-operation with tho Key
stone Buick Company of Pittsburgh 
and tho Buick Motor Company of 
Flint, Mich. Arrangements to add 
this now course this your wore made 
upon tho request of the local Bulclc 
distributors. Beginning this week, a 
class of about 0 students will be en
rolled to receive an intensive period 
of instruction, live days a week.
Although the work will consist 
ehiollly of instruction on Buick mod
els,, an announcement from Carnegie 
Tech indicates that other students 
will be admitted for instruction on 
models other than Buicks, if desirea.
Most of the students registered in 
the course have been recruited by tl\g 
various Buick agencies in the city. 
Practically all of them have been as
sured positions with the agencies upon 
the satisfactory completion of the 
course.. The work will be given in 
the Department of Automobile Main
tenance and Operation.
that was held last week by the SophDEAN CONSIDERS CRAMomores of that college. The court inq QUITE PERMISSABLE
was established in the architectural | _______
Interesting drafting room with "Beany Lowstut-On Docomber 28
ovont took placo in tho Exhibition ter  honorable Judge. The jury 
lloom ot the Arts College when Mr.  composed of twelve very severe. I although just, Sophs who rendered de.1. \ lck O Brlen, head of tho depart j cjsions on each case with quickness 
meut of Music, wai formally initialand dispatch, but always with the 
od into the Beta chapter of tho Phi welfare of the prisoner uppermost in 
Mu Alpha Siufonia, an honorary na
tional musical society. Mr. O'Brien 
came to 'Carnegre in 1912 to organize 
the Music Department of the School 
of Applied Design the same year. Mr. 
O^Brien took charge and has contin
ued as headl of the department, at 
the same time teaching musical com
position and conducting the Synv 
phony Orchestra.
Mr. OBrien is a graduate of Notre 
Dame University. After attending 
'Steam's Conservatory he went to 
Germany, where he studied under 
Hummperdlnck,, Koch and Carl and 
Jose Da Motta in Berlin. Mr. OBrien 
spent ten years abroad, returning in 
1912 to take up ,tihe work here at 
Carnegie. lie is the composed of 
numerous works, three operas of his 
composition have ibeen presented 
here at different Limes. It is Mr. 
OBriens work, both here at the 
school and in his own compositions, 
which has won tfor him the place 
as an honorary member of tills fra
ternity of musicians. Mr. OBrien is 
the composer of tlio' .music to which 
we now sing the Carnegie Alma 
Mater,
their minds.
The court convened with the pros
ecuting attorney, Lackey, in charge 
and Plebe Regulator Bastlan as court 
caller and cliier bouncer.
The victims were led to the altar in 
groups of twos and made to solemnly 
swear on a very official looking Bible. 
The swearing, although probably the 
best efforts of the Plebes, was very 
mild and unconvincing to the more 
experienced Sophs.
The charges were then read and 
each Plebe was questioned concern
ing his guilt. Although -frequently 
pleading innocence, they were usually 
found guilty due .to the efficiency and 
thoroughness of the cross-examina
tion.
The penalties were of a large va
riety, and very well adapted to the 
crimes; thus if any peculiarity is no
ticed in the attire of certain members 
of the younger set, it may be attributAll the girls who attended assem
bly last Tuesday received a lot of 
goodl advice, given in a very* interest 
ing fashion. There will probably be 
quite a few pebple who will be inter
ested in knowing that Miss Breed belives in cramming, to a certain ex
tent.
Her plan of study is to do it in
tensively, but not too long at^ a time 
iif you can get the idea. Sleep is just 
as important as knowledge, when it 
comes to taking an examination, and 
should be indulged in just as heart| iiy.
The Freshman, In particular, should 
begin their college career, righti by 
cramming yes, but by missing times 
out with the weaiy process of follow
ing Charlemagne over Europe.
Letter Corrects An 
Unauthorized Report
Accident to Col. Cunningham 
Was Misrepresented
The Carnegie Tartan publishes the 
following letter out of fairness to Mr. 
Siviter:
To the Editor:
. I have just read your writeup of 
the accident which I unfortunately 
incurred with the car of Colonel Cun
ningham on the evening of January 
2nd. Due 'to the obviously one-sided 
statement of the affair and the rather 
malicious treatment given myself as 
a participant I am forced tta remon, 
strate and ask that you print in your 
next issue this entire communication.
I vehemently object to the manner in 
which the Tartan article described 
my actions following the accident. 
Contrary to the deliberate statement 
that I did not offer my services I saw 
to it that Mrs. Cunningham was im
mediately driven to the nearest doc
tor. .Unfortunately I could not drive 
Mrs. Cunningham in my own car be
cause in the accident the bumper on 
my car had wedged itself in between 
the spokes on the front wheel of Col
onel Cunninghams car. Consequently 
it took some time to remove the 
bumper in order to disengage the two 
cars. In the meantime we sent Mrs. 
Cunningham to the doctors in an
other car which happened to be avail
able. Furthermore I remained at the 
scene of the accident until word came 
back from the doctors office concern
ing Mrs. Cunningham and until the 
Colonel, himself, told me he thought 
there was nothing further I could do.
From my point of view the Tartan 
article of January 8 concerning this 
incident was a malicious distortion of 
the truth. In fairness to me I hope 
you will be liberal and print this com
munication as I have requested.
Very truly yours,
CHALMERS T. SIVITER.
POETIC CONTEST SUGGESTED 
FOR CARNEGIE TECH FACULTY
The Tulane Hullabaloo, the weekly 
paper of Tulane University at New 
Orleans, announces a novel contest 
for poems, jingles - and ditties ; all 
such poems, jingles and ditldes to he 
submitted onlyi by the faculty. In 
ed to causes other than ignorance on j the past the faculty has been put, to
the part of the afflicted party. ' ------------------* 
for me?
Ted: Certainly I would.
Dot: Then pleas^ do it. Im ter
ribly sleepy.Poly Press.
the test in different ways and has 
always come up to the mark. Iti hasDot: ^ Would you put yourself out j been induced to play baseball to
test its athletic ability and incidently 
| to amuse the young students; it has
j given faculty shows ,tio test its his[ trionic ability; it has even submitted
' to a picture rontest which proved it*
beauty; and now its literary ability 
I is to be tested.
I Best of all, a prize is offered for 
I this contest. And such a prize! A
------------------ I large layer cake goes to the winner.
Last week mention was made, in | Gorman haberdashers now sell unand to add to tlio zest of the contest, 
Tlio Tartan of tho Blue Shirt Club dorshirts with regular collar bands each contestant, must state his cake
which has boon formed at Harvard I 011 t,lom t() which any kind of collar preference when he submits his
The reporter obtained the material 
for last weeks article from a source 
unauthorized by Col. Cunningham, and 
withouthis knowledge.
The Colonel does not wish to make 
any comment on the foregoing letter.
Woody: Have you an hour to
spare?
She: Yes. Why?
Woody: May I kiss you good night. 
Concord Argos.
Berlin No Shirt Club Preceded 
the Blue Shirt Club of Harvard
for the purpose of inducing themay bo attached, and they supply poem.
Series of Addresses of Special 
Interest to Students.
Asbury Methodist 
Episcopal Church
BURT DAVID EVANS, D.D.
Sunday morning at 11 oclock 
Building a Working Faith. 
The Spiritual Faculty, The Quest 
of God, Man and the Cosmos, 
Modern Science and the Origin 
of Life, The Garden of Eden.
Sunday evening at 8 oclock 
The Re-Discovery of Jesus, The 
Teaching of Jesus, Jesus and 
Spiritual Religion, The Educa
tion of Jesus, Jesus and Radi-, 
calism.
neckties and "dickies to conceal tlio What startling results might be
laundries .to reduce their prices. This | lack of shirt. We would also sugKolitained from such a contest in our
club was regarded at the time as a | gest tlio use of detachable cuffs, such j own Carnegie Tech! If the faculty
novel and brillia\idea, but wo find I as our fathers and grandfathers wore.
\ ...................... t0 conceal this lack at the wrist
If further search were to be madethat Harvard lnib been completely 
eclipsed.
Berlin now stands in the limelight, 
for in Berlin. "No Shirt Clubs have
could be induced to enter, might we 
not discover some poetlic genius hid-1 
den in our midst, in the disguise of j 
into the conditions causing the rise I a professor of chemistry or mathe-j 
of "No Shirt.1 Clubs in Berlin, it inatics? Even if we fa.. to dis-l 
m glit be discovered that shifts cost j cover a poetic genius, we would at|
been formed, and these clubs have j so many truck loads of German least be certain to know the favorit -.
proved far more - effective than any 
blue, brown, black or even sky-lllacpink shirt organizations which might 
be formed.
marks that theyare beyond the reach cake of the diffeient members of the 
of ordinary citizens. Hence the very j faculty.
ingenious idea of these clubs wad'd'; | ___________________
TlSOd. PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS
The Vagabond Club
OF THE 
WESLEY FOUNDATION 
OF PITTSBURGH 
An .organization of Pitt and 
Tech students for social and re
ligious fellowship.
Regular meeting, Including 
supper, every Sunday evening, 
5:30 to 7:30.
WESLEY HALL
390-1 FORBES STREET

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JANUARY 15, 1924THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
& 1 F?LAID ATHLETICSj A
M. M. BASKETBALL 
SEASON OPENS SOON
Games to be Played at Field 
House and Admission is 
to be Free
Basket ball practice is now going on 
at a lively rate at M. M. C. C. Al
though there will be no varsity team 
this year, the girls are anxious for 
practice so that their class team will 
come out champion and win the 
large cup which now bears the name 
of the present Junior class.
The girls who have reported for 
practice so far are:. Seniors, Virginia 
Weedy, Anna Stuffle, Dot Chalmers, 
L. Rothman, Miriam Bond, and Mary 
Heilig; Juniors, Margaret McFall, 
Maude Cook, Rose. Morin, Margaffet 
Markey, Mary Stuemphle, and Mary 
Spears; Sophomores, Helen Corrao, 
Dot Cook, Mary Quick, Mary Hill, 
Anna Martin, Helen Riddle, Charlotte 
Durie, Jessie Filson, Dot Jones, Jerry 
Corbett, Mary Gleason, Beryl Rankin, 
and Mary Hughes; Freshmen, Eunice 
Clark, Genevieve Connor, M. Baker, 
and Nell Kreiling; Arts, Peg Taylor, 
Dot Schmallhorst, Z. Davis, Gladys 
York, H. White, Dot Cohen, Marg. 
Gallagher, and Gretchen Hoffman.
The games this year should be of 
interest to the whole school, for they 
will be played in the Field House, and 
will be open games. The one hope ot 
.the girls is that the championship 
game can be played in their own new 
gym.
The girls would like to have as 
many as possible out to see these 
games. Now that the men are per
mitted to attend the games they are 
expected to come and cheer for their 
class or for their friends who are 
playing. Everyone is urged to come 
out to the games and help the girls 
have a successful season. There will 
be no charge for admission.
The schedule is now definitely set
tled and any failure of a team to play 
at the appointed time will mean a for
feiture by that team.
The schedule:
March 10Freshman vs. Sopho
more.
March 11Junior vs. Senior.
March 13Arts vs. Freshman.
March 17Sophomore vs. Senior.
March 18Junior vs. Arts.
March 20Senior vs. Freshmen.
March 24'Sophomore vs. Arts.
March 25Freshman vs. Junior.
March 27Arts vs. Senior.
April 3Junior vs. Sophomore.
Father: Carrie, why did that young 
man linger so long in the hall?
Carrie: Oh, hes a song salesman
and was just demonstrating the latest 
hit.
Father: Wliat was it?
Carrie: A kiss in the dark.The
Bulletin.
a 1| GO TO THE [a
j Tech Barber Shop j
3 FOR YOUR HAIR CUTS I 3 E
3 Five Barbers at your service. [|
a ba ON FORBES, TWO DOORS g
BELOW CHAlG
a pi
Oakland Savings & 
Trust Co.
Member Federal Reserve 
System.
Capital......................$300,000.00
Surplus ------- $300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - - $5,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
GOLFERS WANTED FOR NEW
VARSITY TEAM BY OVEREND
All men who are interested in golf, 
and who intend to try for a berth on 
the varsity squad this spring are re
quested to meet with the Graduate 
Manager, Buddy Overend, in his office 
on Wednesday afternoon at 4:30.
Much interest was manifested in 
the sport last year and it is thought 
thai the Athletic Councils decision 
will be greeted with enthusiasm by 
the devotees of the Scotch pastime.
Plebes Divide Spoils 
In Two Floor Battles
Lose First to Avalon, But 
Win Extra-Period One
On Friday night, the Plebe basket 
balL team journeyed to Avalon and 
stacked up against the Avalon High 
School five and lost, 39 to 17 being 
the final score. Handicapped by play
ing on a strange court with an extra
ordinary ceiling, the Plebes were 
slow in getting started. The loss of 
Tate at center was noticeable, and 
Coach Irwin is having his hands full 
developing a new center. Captain 
Maturer at forward and Levinson at 
guard played! well. The Avalon five 
knew the'ir count and played it to ad
vantage. The lineup:
C. I. T. Plebes17.
Avalon H. S.39.
Lynch ................L. F........... Kennedy
MaUrer ............ .R. F............... Fisher
Burnside ..............C................... Dobler
Levinson ............LG.................... Crea
Feldstein ...........R. G........... Behrhorst
On the Plaid Screen
E. C. FRAZIER
KNIGHTS OF THE ROUND TABLE
Yesterday, in the office of the Graduate Manager, thero was gathered 
together an august body of men. Weighty matters did these men discuss, 
and solemnly did they pronounce judgment on various subjects which con
cerned them and the welfare' of Plaid athletics.
It was one of Buddy Overends' new ideas being put into operation. It 
was a conference of all the managers of varsity and Freshman teams, in
augurated for the purpose of securing better co-operation with the Grad
uate Managers office, and among themselves. It is planned to have such 
conclaves at periodic intervals, and to discuss matters pertaining to the 
problems of managership.
We believe that Buddy has steered his frigate into the right channel, 
and this move is only one evidence of his desire to bring about greater efliciency and more co-operation in his-department, and among those connected 
with the athletics of the school.
"Your policy is to give the manager more responsibility than he has 
generally had in the past, is it not? was a question recently asked of Mr. 
Overend. Of course. And what is a manager for?" was the reply; and he 
continued to state that most student managers are quite capable of hand
ling the details connected with their positions. The opinion has frequently 
been heard that the student manager got too little opportunity to manage. 
Mr. Overend has been quick to see conditions and has started the round table 
idea as a means of placing the student managership on a higher plane of 
responsibility.
'Managers Selected 
By Athletic Council
Plebe Basketball and Football 
Schedules Approved
i SPLENDID OPPORTUNITIES I n .v;.
FOR MANAGERSHIPS OPEN Pehn State WlIlS
A COUP FOR CARNEGIE
It has just been announced that the new Carnegie Tech gymnasium will 
be the scene of the most interesting basket ball tournaments of the state. 
The Western Pennsylvania Interscholastic Championship will be fought out 
on the new floor at the close of the current season.
This will give Carnegie an opportunity to see some of the best prep 
school basket ball in the district, and what is more important, will give some 
of the best young athletes a chance to look over Carnegie.
To pay for their defeat Friday 
night the Plbe basket ball team won 
a hard-fought game from California 
Normals by the close score of 23 to 
19.
The score at the end of the first 
half was 16 to 5 in favor of Califor
nia. . In a wonderful spurt! and rally 
the Plebes tied the score at the end 
of the game, 17 to 17. The extra 
five minutes found a 19 to 19 dead
lock, and a second extra five minutes 
was indulged in by the fighting 
teams. This ended with a 23 to 10 
score. Lynch dropped the winning 
basketi from the center of the floor.
California played hard and, well, 
and promises a royal good battle on 
their own floor this coming Satur
day.  The lineup :
Tech23. Cai. Normal19.
Lynch ...................F................ Weaver
Manner ................F...................... Mills
Snethui ...............C............... Sherwin
Levinson ..............G........................ Lee
Feldstein ........G................... Bruce
Field goalsLynch 2, Manner 4, 
Snetben 1, Burnside 1, Levinson 1, 
Weaver 1, Mills 1, Sherwin 2, Lee 1, 
Bruce 1. Foul goalsTech 3 out of 
20; (California, 7 out of 16. Substitu
tionsBurnside ior Snetben, Wood
ward for Mills, Mills for Woodward. 
Eichman for Sherwin. Referee 
Westlake.
Pythias
. "I ccrtninly am. Id do anything in the world for you. Yes. any thing 1
Dam on
All rightprove it! Give me hack that Eldorado pencil you borrowed last night."lfHot
"l/ie master dm wing pend "
17 leadsoil dealer,
DAVIES and HUGHES
oMENS WEARj
3615 FORBES STREET 422 SOUTH CRAIG STREET j
Next To Strand Theater Craig At Forbes
OPEN EVENINGS
ssssS 
 SM0Iff
ONLY those who have 
smoked Melachrinos 
can judge the quality 
of the finest Turkish 
tobacco.
ORIGINAL
MELACHRINO
The One Cigarette Sold the World Over
TWO LOSTONE WON
That is the record for the week just passed. The Plebes came through 
with one victory and one defeat, and tlid varsity was forced to give in to the 
strong Nittany Lion outfit. The work of the Plebes in overcoming almost 
certain defeat in their contest with California Normal was indeed spectac
ular. The men on the team deserve great praise for their nghting spirit, 
and the sportsmanship with which they triumphed over the opponents. Coach 
Irwin deserves all praise for the showing of his proteges, and after listening 
to him give a lecture to them on sportsmanship and ethics of basket ball, 
we believe that he has the spirit .{of Carnegie Tech, and his ideals are of the 
finest. He will turn over some mighty good men to the varsity at the end 
of this season.
COMMENT ON A NEW RULE
This season sees in operation a new rule of basket ball whereby the 
person fouled against must make the foul shot for his team. Obviously, 
this regulation tends to cut down the scores due to a large number of suc
cessful foul shots. It also takes away much of the advantage which a team 
containing one or two brilliant foul shooters has against its less fortunate 
rivals.
We believe that in this way, it will do away with many victories which 
are due chiefly to numerous free throws, and will add a little more interest 
to the average game. On the other hand, thero is the possibility that foul
ing will occur oftener, since the penalty is not likely to be so great if the 
man fouled against is not a good shot. A few games will show whether the 
rule is or is not desirable. We believe, however, that is a step in advance.
THIEL NEXT
The next dish to be set before the Tartan baslceters will be Tlilel Col
lege. The latter institution usually sends up a scrappy bunch and we do 
not care to predict the outcome. But lets make it easier for the varsity 
lads by having a big crowd to greet them when they appear on the floor. 
Three losses in a row will be hard to take. Lets make it a victory this 
time.
CARNEGIE EXHIBIT IN 
MUSEUM MADE TIMELY
The Carnegie Tech exhibit of Pho
tographers in the Pennsylvania State 
Museum at Harrisburg, has been re
cently brought up to date by1 the forwardfng to I-larrisburg of many new 
photographs by It. S. Clark of the 
Press Bureau.
The Stsitehas set aside space in 
the museum for premanent exhibits 
by itlhe universities and colleges of 
Pennsylvania. Some students, while 
visiting the exhibit, noticed that the 
one representing Carnegie was sad
ly out of date. They notified Mr. 
Clark of that fact, the result) being 
that sixteen big sheets of cardboard 
upon each of which wc-re mounted 
from. Tour to six photographs were 
forwarded to take the place of the 
older exhibit. These photographs in
cluded views of itihe campus, besides 
excellent views of the shop, labor
atory and studio facilities of the in
stitute.
The exhibit is of great value to the
Harrisburg Clan inasmuch as It afords the Clan an opportunity of show
ing very clearly* itto prospective stu
dents the excellent facilities offered 
by the institute. The renewed interset in the Harrisburg . exhibit is also 
valuable that it is creating a 
movement towards establishing perm
anent exhibits of a similar character 
in other cities^ The local Clans arc 
being asked to co-operate in sending 
suitable locations for the exhibits.
SHORT ASSEMBLY HELD
IN ENGINEERING SCHOOL
The Engineering Assembly of last 
Tuesday was of rather short) dura
tion, with no particularly interesting 
feature. President Robertson of the 
Engineering Senate, was in charge 
of the assembly and made sevoral an
nouncements. Other announcement!?1 
were made relative to the Mons Jun
ior Prom and the Thistle Board. One 
of the scheduled events, the Sopho
more stunt, was not included, owing 
to non-appearance of the participants. 
The Plebe Orchestra was schedule'! 
to play but could not do so owing to 
lack of piano.
NATIONAL LEAGUE
ATOM IlCOTTBPATKP
ATO
Jar-) 
1 -S
rar.ia 
i  Nftbi OFibzO
1-5
rt<\r-n i  sJan 1 6
Z J
(vVrt 
( - S
Kleri Jan 8i-S
re bz6 f -rJt-N
/Y)aril
t-NFebl V
1 -SZNroTar-"6~
(-5
Acacio|V)o r8i-NFeb Z 
1  rj
J*n 9 
( -rtJdn U2-NZ-NCOir'b
l-N
Fob Z -N
AXPFebi9
2;N
J an l'l i n>J un 9 
l-NvbZ 
1 - 32-- S.
(VyxrzT
l-s
Cflar18
z-s
3 erffrb26
i s
War 11
1 -ri
J a n 1 i"Z A
FrbXL
1 -sJan 92-reb/V
l-NfO CXrZO 1- N
p3P
Morii 
1  -5
Pe bl*/ 1- S
fS'arZS
Z-rl
F b 2 8 z-sJan 9z-sFebz z-njQr\ |7
1 -s
AT
Jars 1b
l-sz-rt
^ o 
l~N
00
l-s
p-ob/y
i-rJ
fobacJa.n io Z.-N
K2P
Mar-26
/- s.
Mar 61 -5.
F<?b /V 
^ -N
COdrlQ
Z -5
{V)<xt-ZOJan 17rr.JtrtlO 
* .
Among the important business 
transacted at the last meeting of the 
Athletic Council, hold Wodnosday 
night, January 9, was football and 
cross Country managerial elections, 
approval of schedules, and the deci
sion to support a golf team in the 
spring. A manager of baseball was 
also elected and the date was set for 
the Inter-scholastic Track Meet. It 
was voted that the Council hereafter 
meet on the second Tuesday of each 
month, instead of on Wednesday, as 
has been the case.
The report of the committee on 
election of football manager was 
adopted, Richard Reed was elected 
manager to succeed Pat Ryan. G. E. 
Slye was made Freshman football 
manager. The report of the commit
tee on the cross country managership 
was also approved and that honor 
went to C. P. Proctor. Curtis Colvin 
will manage the yearling squad of the 
same sport. The folloAving varsity 
cross country men were awarded let
ters: Dylceman, captain, Bright, I-Iinderer, Kimmel, Atwood, Bender, and 
Foller;- Gottwals was also awarded a 
Letter for consistent good work, and 
placing in the Pitt-Allegheny meet. 
Manager H. H. Wilson will also re
ceive a letter. Numerals were award
ed to the following Freshmen: Stultz, 
De Jesus, McKinney, Carter, Kennedy 
and Reynolds.
The Council elected A1 Irwin, As
sistant Graduate Manager and Assist
ant Football Coach for another year.
It was moved and seconded that all 
varsity letter men who aro paid-up 
members of the Varsity Clan and of 
the Alumni Association will bo issuod 
yearly bench privileges for home foot
ball ganies, same to be issuod through 
the Graduate Managors office. No 
other bench privileges will ho granted 
except to coaches and members of the 
Athletic Council.
The Annual Intor-Scholastic Track 
Meet will bo held on May 10, on the 
Carnegie Tech fleld. The Freshman 
football schodiilo for 1924, was ap
proved and is as follows:
October 4Slippery Rock Normal, 
here.
October 11Penn Stato Freshmen, 
there.
October '18W. & J1. Sji&Bhmon, 
there.
Optober 25Pitt Froshmon, Forbes 
Field.
Novembor 1California Normal, 
hero or thore.
Novombor 8KislcI, thoro.
Novembor 15  Potomac Stato 
School of Keysor, W. Va., hero.
Tho'Pleho basket ball schedule for 
the present season was also approvod 
and Is as follows:
January 11-Avalon II, S., thoro.
January 12California Normal, 
hero.
January 19California Normal, 
thore.
February 2Penn Stato Fresh., 
there,
February 5Pitt Fresh., here.
February 9Bollovuo IT. S'., thoro.
February 1(5Penn State Frosh., 
here.
February 23-KiskI, thoro.
II. F. Simpson was oleclod to man
age the Freshman tennis toam for tills 
year. Hank worked for the tennis 
managership for about two yoars and 
then abandoned it for journalistic 
work, becoming Athlotlc Editor, and 
now editor-in-chlof of the Carnoglo 
Tartan. The Council considered that 
'Simpsons clnlm to the position was 
well-founded and took the appropri
ate action.
Douglas A. Schoerko was elected 
baseball manager for the current sea
son. Scnoerke would have been first 
assistant last year had there been a 
baseball aggregation. I-Ie has been 
active in class and school activities, 
and Is treasurer of the Science Senior 
class.
As has been indicated, the Council 
decided to organize a golf team this 
spring, and arrangements will shortly 
he made for the use of the Schenley 
Park links. A manager for this sport 
and one for the Freshman baseball 
team will be appointed in the near 
future. No coach for Freshman base
ball has as yet been selected.
I The following managerial positions 
i are open and applications will bo re
ceived by the Graduate Manager: 
j Freshman Basoball ManagorSenior.
I Freshman Track ManagerSenior.
I Freshman Golf ManagerSenior. 
Varsity Golf ManagerSenior. 
Assistant Baseball Managers
First AssistantsJuniors.
Second AssistantsSophomores. 
Assistant Golf Managers
Fi rst A ssi stum t sJ un ior s.
Second AssistantsSophomores. 
CLARENCE OVERBND, 
Graduate Managor.
ATHLETIC COUNCIL 
ELECTS MANAGERS
Dick Reed Named Varsity 
ManagerJerry Slye 
Plebe Selection
After much deliberation last Wed
nesday evoning the -Athletic Council 
elected the Varsity And Froshman 
football managers for next fall. Some 
weeks ago the Council had taken up 
the matter, but owing to the fact that 
both of the assistant managers of last 
season, Dick Reed and Jerry Slye, 
woro fully qualified and capable of 
lllling the varsity hertli the Council 
hesitated in naming either for that 
position until every, bit of information 
could bo collected. The recommenda
tions of the out-going student man
ager, the coaches and members of the 
football squad were secured and care
fully inspected-. The Council finally 
made its decision, naming Rood stu
dent manager of the vftrsity and Jerry 
Slye manager of the Freshmen.
J. Richard Reed, better known as 
Dick, is a junior in Art School talc
ing a course in Architecture. Ho is 
well-known on the campus, boing en
gaged in quite a few activities, in
cluding Business Managor of the Tlilstlo. Dicks modosty coupled with the 
onergy he displays wlion attacking 
what he has to do makes him very 
popular with all who como in contact 
with him. Ho Is a mombor of the 
Dolta IJpsllon Fraternity and Delta 
'Skull Honorary.
aoorgo E. Slye Is a junior In Me
chanical Engineering, and is actively 
ongagod in many activities, prominent 
among them being his work on the 
Thistle, of which Jio Is Editor-In-Chief 
this yoar. Jerry has boon a willing 
worker as an assistant football man
agor for tho past tliroo yo'ars, and will 
make a high class managor for tho 
Froshman toam. Ho is a mombor ot 
tho Beta Thota PI Fratornlty arid tho 
Dolta Skull Honorary.
CARNEGIE COMMONS
HAS NEW MANAGER
(Contlnuod From Pago 1) 
of tho students by giving them a 
square doal.
Basketball Game
Splendid Work in the Initial 
Period Avails Little; Game 
Well Played
Tho Skibo eagers emorgod from 
tho haunts of tho Nittany Lion last 
Saturday night with a defeat of 47 
to 25, chalked nip against them. Al
though the final score does not show 
the sp'lendidwork done by tho Tar
tans.
During, tho first half the Plaid tosoers put up a stiff resistance and tho 
Stato aggregation could not got close 
enough to tho basket to score with 
ease and all the points had to be 
made from long shots. Reed and 
Gorlmrdt, the two State veterans, 
made some sensational shots, Reed 
getting tho honors for points by 
scoring seven field goals and two out 
of three fouls. Tho State tossera 
maintained a live point, lead through
out tho first half, duo largely) to sen
sational baskets from beyond tho 
center of the iloor. Beede, who re
placed Jimmie Robertson in this half 
kept the Skibos score moving up
ward by caging two field goals.
The Lions came back st'rong in tho 
second half and began chalking up 
counters from the center of the court, 
while the Skibos were held scoreless 
for the first eight minutes of play. 
Captain Anderson and Amans who 
substituted for Dosey carried on the 
Tocli attack throughouill thegame and 
put many a scare into tho Lion 
cagors.
Th-* Tartans put up a strong game 
of defense duiring the entire fray and 
the Nittany cagemen had difficulty 
in scoring., and had to cage all their 
point 4 from long llskindos due to 
tho Imprognablo defense of tho Sklbos under the baskets. The Plaid 
lacked tho oil'onslve punch to start 
tho' Lions on tho run so it was neces
sary for them to play a, defensive 
game throughout. Tho lineup:
Ponn State. Carnoglo Tech.
Hood .....................F........... Anderson
Gorhanlll ...............F.................. Amans
Jannolowloz. ....C.................. Mofovt
Reed .....................G-............ Mohrman
LclTlor ...........G-........... Robertson
Field goalsGorlmrdt (*, Rood 7, 
Jarmolowic/, 8, Loofflor, Stnekman 2, 
Bocdo 2, Anderson 2, Amans 3, Mofort 2. FoulsGorlmrdt .I, Jarmolowloz 2 Rood 2, Loofflor *1, Amans 6, 
Molort 1. Substitutions--Iloodo for 
Robertson, Stuckman for Hood, Dosoy 
for Boodo, Boodo for Molort. Referee 
Wh i to. U mplroG1 osel.
XJndor hor management many im
provements are to bo made. Just 
when In largoly a matter of conjootuiO, but It hi bellovod not later than 
tho Has tor vacation poriod. Furl.hor 
plans aro only awaiting tho approval 
of Ilio school executives.
Get Extra Credits at Home
Mori* than 'ISO cotmiosin History, Enalleh, Mathematics,ChomlBtry, 
Zoology, Modern Language, Economies, Philosophy, Sociology, etc., 
are given by c0mtpondar\co. Learn how the credit they yield may 
be applied on your college program. Catalog describing courses fully, 
furnished on request. Write today.
JC [iil)cv0t> ot Cljtcrtgo
OO ELLIS HLLCHICAGO. ILLINOIS
AMERICAN LEAGUE
 <i>K e
Wood1 civJnScagli1ZAK
A <t)A
Jan 8
l-N
Cfi\r lZ 
2-S
Jan l5 
l-N
tflar2
l-N
Feb 14-
2-5
War 13 
2 N
Feb 28
l-N
KE
J c.n 8 l-rtJan (G 2-Nmar 4 
-N
Mar 1-5 
2-5Feb 202-NMarU X-NFeb 19
tyyv/mor.llx-sJan 16 :.NJar, 3 Z-Feb 19 l-NMar < Z-NOOar Z
2- - 5on a*- (S i-S
Sccbell
JqO I
1r<
Mai4 
-Il
Jan 8 
2-S
(Vtar 26 
1 -N
OOar II 
2-S
Feb 1-5
z-sFeb 2o
Z-S
$A Ernorzf i -ri
C*)cr 13
2.-SFeb 19 l-N
jQl-NJan 9 2- NMur 41-5
i r.aFebi^t2-SFeb 20 2-HMar G2 -WMate II 2-SJan 9 2.-NJan 16 i-NC*)a.r Zo 2-N
KE
(YUr 13 
2-N
(Ylar Ji
2-Tl
(V)*r 20
2-S
Feb n 
2-S
(Ylar 4 
2-SJan [Ci 
l-N
Jan 10 
-.5
S<>
Fb 20 
l-N
F?b 19
1-5
(Ylar I
l-S
Teb 20
2-S
Jan 17 
2-N
COar 20
2-ri
Jan 10 
/-S
B. B. Games and Dances in 
Newman Club Festivities
FEDERAL LEAGUE
VJvs K0^. 1*.*A f'OAT -Z. N.EEn L
11
P/jdrrv.
Welsh
07. N
Jnn/6
1 - 5
OOdrli 
1 - 3
Feb lo 
/ - /V
FeboPOarl3
1 J
Jan 1z - s
jr-Z
roqr-/ 
1 - 3zbt?.*. - s
/Y)0^/9 1 - fVKlorii. 1 -M
Pfbi yZ-nJan 1*7 Z 3
Boss
J<\n 1 61-5/-s
J^n 91 - 3Febis 1 -3
rtyirXbi-s
Ktar-11 1-ri1 tr
2 '
AroC'l qr 'zFeb Xbi-SI - SJa.n Ifz-srOarf31 N
r* fai i4fb*6 
Z 3
ATAFbXO 1 - ni04rl9 
i - ri
F*b.3-I  5 1- HJar* 10 1 - r<(.
Zrsif ebi J
l-N
Mar 12
1- n
fOai-z
( - s
r0ri3
1
KRGV.
l-N
Jan \s
i-r
rOar 19 'ii -5
EEnL1- S
fe b/3
2.-N
MKt-i-z
Z-NF b2Jan 10 1 NJan \S~ 
l-SMqr2-Z--S.
H Pr>c\f r son.
O
<3
iJan 17
z5
FeblS--S
FebZbz-s.
COar 6z-s.mar-IQ1-5ff*
A brace of basket ball games will 
inaugurate the Newman Club festiv
ities in CatQiedral High Slahool tomor
row night. The teams of the Rain
bow League are acquiring skill as 
the season progresses, and the sports 
period from seven-thirty to ninethirty ought to produce some play 
worth seeing.
A dance orchestra will, try to In
duce a little harmonic motion from 
nine-thirty to eleven. Thus far, Llje 
club has been paying the orchestra 
out of its treasury, but tmorrow night 
participants in tho terpsichoroan 
frolic will be taxed a quarter to help 
defray expenses. However, the musk, 
is worth tho high fee.
FRANK. BROTHERS
l;iilh Avimiic Bool Shop
Dotwonimici 't/id! Simula, New York
Shoe satisfaction mcano 
style and worth.
Exhibit Shops In all the larger 
cities.
WHEYS
Take it home to 
the kids.
Hove a packet in 
your pocket for an 
ever-ready treat.
A delicious confcction and an aid to 
the tcetii, appclito.
PLACE YOUR
INSURANCE
WITH A
TECH MAN
Ten years experience.
JOS. P. FISHER 
AGENCY
Established 1886. 
COMMONWEALTH BLDG. 
Jon. P. Fisher, Jr.,
Owner and Manager. Court 0554
You havo tried tho REST 
Now try tho BEST.
Como to tho
COLLEGIATE 
BARBER SHOP
410 SOUTH CRAIG STREET
Stretching Your 
Income
Only through careful, sys
tematic and efficient handling 
of your funds can you make 
the most of your income.
The officers of this bank take 
a personal pride in promot
ing the financial welfare of 
our customers and are ever 
ready to assist in the solu
tion of their financial prob
lems.
Your savings and checking 
accounts, even though small, 
are welcome here.
Mellon National Bank
Pitlsbujr^h, Pa.
Auf hammer & Evans
Hats and Mens Furnishings
6100 PENN AVENUE 
At Sheridan Square East Liberty ;,]

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. JANUARY 15. 1924
&ALUMNI PAGE
DO YOU KNOW?
That Bill PeeiU, Id his Column Bill 
Say, Cor tho Pittsburgh Pont, hus 
jiicltided a little squib which ho run 
under the hoad "For the Good' ot' 
Carnegie Tech? Ho must liuvo hoch 
tho Tartan.
That tho Motor Transport Corp 
will, repair your automobile i'l'GO o 
labor charges.
That Mr. Payne hi dirooting a play 
irom UBUD own pen, to ho produced. In, 
tho Little Theater Boon.
That tho pictures ior .tho Boauty 
fContoHt are ready to ho Sent to tho 
judges.
That inld-yoar exams will begin 
January 28.
ThaU tho Technical Journal will 
contain an article about Stage TechnicalltioB for tho Dramats.
OVER TWO MILLION IS 
EARNED BY STUDENTS
Tho hugo Bum of two and one-halt 
million dollarB haae been earned in 
one year by the combined' efforts of 
night students outside' the bureau 
and thoso working through the Em
ployment Bureau. These llguroB 
wore compiled from tho records of 
tho Employment Bureau plus a con
servative estimate placed on the 
earnings of students ouitsido. the buO'ca/UL
,8t:0 than twomlly-six hundred stu
dents are responsible for .this huge 
sum oC inonoy. Some of whom are 
holding part time jobs and ofhera 
full time positions. Tho average 
wage per student Is .$19.00 per woolc.
Tlio kind ol work, ranges from 
tabic waiters to teaching, in the part 
time work, and from clerical to high
ly specialized engineering work in 
tho full Ui'mo positions.
Tho problem ol! helping students 
to bo self supporting Is tho job of 
the Employment Bureau. They are 
able lo place students who otherwise 
would not socuro work at all. Many 
Inquiries are dally received for help 
from people who0 havo formerly SG' 
cured Student help.
MRS. RREDVOLD ENTERTAINED 
BY ATHLETIC BOARD MONDAY
The Athletic Board of M. M. G. C. 
had tho pleasure of entertaining Mrs. 
Emilio Bowman Brodvold at a 1'iiiiich 
<ion which they heldl Monday noon 
in tho Rocrontlon Hall.
Mrs. Brodvold, formerly known 
among tho students -as Miss Bnlnnmn 
was tho hoad of tlvo Physical Train
ing Department of M. M. C. C. last 
lyoar Bosldos her work in , tlvl's do 
rpartmont;, Mrs. Brodvold was advisor 
for tlvo proHont Senior class, tho Y. 
IW. G. A. and tho Athlotlo Board.
It was largely through her efforts 
[that alhlMlllcs among tilio girl ol! M 
M. (!, 10, and Gollogo of Flno ArU 
wore developed ,lio tluilr present 
status.
ALUMNAE TEA IN "LITTI f
H0U8IZ ON JANUARY 19
The Unit event on tho Margaret 
Morrison Alumnno calendar for this 
year hi the tea which will he given 
In the "Little lloniio," 0185 Woodlawn 
avenue, on Saturday afternoon, Janu
ary tilth, from three until live.
Tho hontoHii la Marguerite Hollar, 
'ID, and she will havo as aids Moleu 
Wasaol, '17; Anna Light, *a:j; Hornioo 
Kruger, 11), and Ruth Kehior, MO.
INI. M, alumnae, don't forgot to put 
this date down on your calendar. The 
January tea In tho "Little House" Is 
always a delightful one and brings 
out all loyal alumnae.
ALUMNI OF PENN 8TATE
MAKE LIBERAL DONATION 
TO MENS NEW GYMNA8IUM
Penn State College Alumni have 
voted Lo givo 'Ilo their Alma Mater a 
gilft ol.' $100,000.00 to help in the erec
tion. of a new gymnasium lor men, It 
was alsovoted to donate $10,000.00 
toward a gymnasium for the co eds.
Tills Js the largest single donation 
made to the school by the alumni, 
Tho building will probably bo bogum 
Jn tho spring.
How about' an entrance for-Science 
Building?
M.M. Graduates Hold 
Educational Posts
State Supervisors of Home 
Economics M. M. Girls
It is Interesting to Carnegie studonts and alumni Lo know LliaL the 
positions of Stato Supervisors of 
Home Economics In tho Pennsyl
vania Slate Department of Public 
Instruction aro heLdi 'by two Margaret 
Morrison, graduates, Mrs. Anna Green 
'11, and Miss Lou. Hartman '15.
'Phis work moans especially the su
pervision of all schools, grade and 
high, schools, which receive State 
aid and also thoso schools which' re
ceive hotli. StaLo and Federal aid. iL 
also Includes direction, of tho part
ii mo schools for girls who are em
ployed, and direction of the evening 
schools for women and girls. Many 
StaLes have buit one supervisor, but 
tho extent of the work In Pennsyl
vania requires tho services of two 
directors. IL is a tributile to their 
Alnia Mater as'Voli as to their own 
ability1 that there responsible posts 
should be held hy former Margaret 
Morrison girls.
STUDENTS TRY TO
COMBAT SNOW BY 
LEARNING TO SPEAK ESKIMO
T. N. E. writes: I found tho gridgraph game tremendously realistic. 
Please print your formula for a syn
thetic kiss.
Sorry old man but all rights are 
reserved.Cornell Sun.
(Continued From Page Ono.) 
School been completely covered by 
the swirling snow Ilian a notice ap
peared on the bulletin board to tho 
efl'octl that all students who expected 
to survive the winter must broaden 
.llholr icourses by adding Lwelvo hours 
a week of Elomentary Eskimo in or 
dor to obtain degree. Locating 
p'rofs cold blooded enough to Leach 
the courses was no very dilfflcuilt mat
ter and now no loss than thrpo hun
dred of the Instructors are putting 
their proteges through their juices.
"Alaska.!"
Tho victims are proving thomsolves 
very apt at Lholr lasks and riot in
frequently ono hears an engineer 
talking to his girl Inadvertently Bay 
Alaska. or Nome. hotli good words 
meaning 1 want a diato with her 
and "No, you cant have anollher 
kiss. Only lyestorday ono of those 
linguistically IncM'nod men sivuiitoror,1 
into Sklho and said "Gimme ona 
them," at ho same time pointing to 
a. sign on tlvo wall whoso only word 
Ing saidi "Now 5c." His accent was 
good so lie rooolvod as a reward ono 
Eskimo pie.
Tho clans ilin, Elomentary Eskimo 
Is how reading a. j,rnnslaHon of a 
typical Eskimo love sonnet, from 
which we quote the following soulstirring pasflUKo:
Alaslta In Hie morning,
Gan l see her tonight,
She can't turn live down cold,
For I know darn well,
She ain't got dates ifor all six months.
GLEE CLUB WILL HOLD
CONCERT WITH P. C. W
(Continued From Pago One.) 
contrlubted a few stunts. The quar 
to I. rendered a few songs, wlvllie 
Mitchell contrlbuLod a HuWaian guitar 
solo. The next dance will .be held on 
February 1G. A surprise in tho way 
of an orchestra is promised for this 
affair. 
DRESS SUITS TO RENT
ORDER NOW FOR THE
PROM
Largest stock between New York and Chicago.
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Smlthfield 0341
PITTSBURGH, PA. 
Hours: 8:30-5:30
CARNEGIE MUSEUM 
OPENS EXHIBITION
Unique Historical Display of 
Fine Printing to Begin 
Today
Tho historical exhibition of line 
printing and books opens today at 
(/he Department of Fine Arts, Carne
gie inslituLo, and will conlinue unLil 
March 1. This display will ibe Llio 
most comprehensive ono of its kind 
ever held In the country.
The plan of tho exhibition if of 
Lhe widest scope, covoring the art of 
book-making from tho eleventh cen
tury 'to Live prosonL day. Over two 
hundred specimens will be shown 
comprising manuscrlpLs daLing from 
Lho Middle and Renaissance Ages, 
as woll as the work of the best 
known contemporary printers.
The InstiLule has been exlremely 
fortunate in obtaining rare and line 
examples of printing from PiLLsburgh 
arid elsewhere. 1,1) is InleresLing Lo 
noLo LliaL tho major part of the ex
hibition comes from private collec
tions in PlLtsburgh, which is singu
larly rich in material of this kind.
The exhibition is of special inter
est to Carnegie students because 
Professor Garnett of the Laboratory 
Press Is helping) to assemble and cat
alogue Lhe display and has also conLrlbuted a nuniiber of Items.
MUSICAL COMEDY TO
FEATURE ARTS BALL
CLAN NEWSWOMEN EMPLOYED 
BY SCHOOL BUREAU
HARRISBURG CLAN
(Continued1 From Page Ono.) 
ment of the School of Fine Arts.
The designs for the decoraLlons of 
the ball have been worked up by 
Renzo and Itenato Rulill. Tlieso Lwo 
boys have had practical experience as 
designers and are likewise crack 
artists.
They are going to place large ' Chi
nese vases and gods In Lhe niches of 
Lho main corridor. BeLwen Lhese 
and in bade of Lhe 'benches will be 
draperies with colored sLreamers, 
Over .this, in the Semicircular Win,dosvs will be painted huge dragons.
In front*of Lhe directors office will 
be a pergola with ills cuirled up 
roofs, Inside of which will be thd 
throne. The orchestra will be placed 
on. a platform Lo be builL over Lhe 
front entrance. In ibaclc of tills will 
bo it revolving circular arrangement 
consisting of transparent paper of 
different colors wlLlv lighLs shining 
.tlhrough to serve to put the orehoslrn 
in silhoueLle.
Ovor tho doorways of this theater 
and exhibition hail in Lho foyer will 
be dragons and streamers. They 
have not decided on any docCration 
for the step's Lo the foyer; perhaps 
it will ho a. bridge or niches with 
vases and gods.
A touture of itllie decorations will 
bo tho lights, In each vault of the 
celling will ho ii hugo lantern. The 
gods In the niches will havo colored 
spotlights on them. There will bo a 
hugo lantern i'n tho loyier with eight 
smaller ones noar It. In tho exhibi
tion room will bo a. small Chlnoso 
garden with Its pool and arched 
'bridge. The docoratlohs havo been 
very woll planned and work will hogln on Llvom very soon, if they aro 
us well oxeouSocll as they are planned 
tho hall will ho tho best ovor staged.
V. S. Molilpnauor, tho treasurer, 
nays those who Intend to go must 
pay tholr dues before January 18.
Th6 Harrisbug Carnegie Clan held 
Lhelr fourth annual dinner anl dance 
at the Civic Club of Harrisburg, on 
Saturday night, December 22. There 
was a very good turnout of both 
present and former Carnegie stu
dents.
At the dinner, at which the presidenL, M. E. Green, presided, H. Y. 
Sbaub of Lancasler, Lhe chairman ol' 
the ALhletlc Committee of the Clan, 
gave a talk on athletics at Carne
gie. J. J. Itudisill of York, the vice 
president, gave an account of the 
general sludent activities.
Those present were: Mr. and Mrs. 
M. E. Green, Mr. and Mrs. G. D. 
Whitney, Mr. and Mrs. Frank M. 
Hlghberger, Mr. and Mrs. Ritchie 
Lawrle, Jr., Mr. and Mrs. J. C. Todd, 
Mr. andl Mrs. Charles J. Bushong, 
Mr. and Mrs. Henry P.' Shaub, and 
Mr. and Mrs. Richard Krimmel of 
Lancaster, Mrs. Anna G. Green, Mias 
Lee M. Hartman, Miss Dorothy Ken
dall, Miss Margaret) BratLon, Miss Vir
ginia Wallis, Miss Leah Kennedy, 
Miss Catherine Klinedinst, Miss 
Irene Sweeney, Miss MargareL Land
is, Miss Marguerile ' SLuclcer, Miss 
Mabel Weigle and' Miss Jean Matter.
Miss Alma Deck, Lebanon; Miss 
Ann Shields, Chambersburg; .Miss 
Gertrude Bossard, Carlisle; Miss 
RuLh Green, Kterhonlison, N. Y.; Miss 
Lucille Mussulman and Miss Helen 
Hosteller, Lancaster; Miss Mary Rudisill, York.
II. L. Slegmund, H. L. Lanlis. D. 
C. Binser, J. W. Miniclc, Adam Nell, 
W. M. Cullen, M. Dale Smith, John 
G. Todd:, W. W. Hall and Milo Mat
ter.
ClllTord Zlnn, Myerstown; B. M. 
Shields, Chambersburg; L. M.. Gor
man and F. W. Wert, Carlisle; 
Charles Machley, Lancasler; J. J. Ru'dlslll, York; Henry Krelder and Paul 
Putt, Lebanon.
PITT GAME TO BE
INFORMAL GYM OPENING
The Three Churches of Christ, Scientist
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
announces a
FREE LECTURE ON CHRISTIAN SCIENCE
------by------
EZRA W. PALMER, C. S. B OF DENVER, COLORADO
Mombor or lho Board or l.ootiiroHhlp or tlio Mothor Churah, 
tlio Kiwi. church ol' Chrlnt, SctoutlHt, In Boston, Muaiinuluiuotta
Sunday, January 20, 1924, 3:15 P. M.
NIXON THEATER
The Public is Cordially Invited to Attend.
(Continued From Pago One.)
President Baker is planning appro
priate ceremonies for the formal 
opening. The thought of an indoor 
track meet for tho occasion has been 
entertained by some administration 
officials, but Lhe uncertainty of the 
opening date makes all plans tenta
tive.
Tlie block floor of the gymnasium 
will be well adapted for dancing. 
Word from the presidents office 
states that only on exceptional occa
sions will dances be held there, how
ever. A large dance under the man
agement of the Margaret Morrison 
Alumnae this spring is to be the in
augural social event. The Mardi 
Gras will also be held in the mammoth room according to report. '
The whole gymnasium building is, 
rapidly approaching completion. Thwomens .gymnasium is finished wit: 
the exception of th floor, the corrij dors and offices are being plastered, 
and the pool is ready to be tliled. 
Steam has for some time been circu
lating through the radiators. The 
formal dedicatory exercises will be 
held sometime this spring.-
The Daylight Store
We are offering some real bargains at this time at our store. All 
Overcoats at cost. Sweater Coats, Sheep Lined Coats, Rain Coats, 
Mufflers, everything the latest style.
Come in and see for yourself the real money savings bargains.
CONNORS & JACOBS
OUTFITTERS FOR MEN 
3709 FORBES STREETOAKLAND
IRWIN LAUGHLIN
TO SPEAK AT
GENERAL ASSEMBLY
(Continued From Page One.) 
tan of Turkey, October to Novembor, 
1010: secretary of the embassy at
Borlln, December, ;i!)0!), to September, 
1.912: aooretary of tho embassy at 
London, 1912-1.7., During Ills London 
connection, he served at various pe
riods as charge daffaires and as 
counselor of the embassy from 1!UG 
to 19li). In March of 1018, he went 
on an extended leave of absence and 
in 1921 he was on duty at the Confer
ence for the Limitation of Armament 
as secretary to Senator Henry Cabot 
Lodge. Mr. Laughlin is an able 
sneaker and it will he well worth 
while to be present at assembly. At 
present he is attached to the State 
j Department in Washington, D. C.
I Mary Power of the Drama Depart
ment wilP give a reading. Everyone 
who has not heard Miss Power will 
enjoy her performance, and those who 
have heard her will certainly be interNEW YORK CLAN
The annual dinner and1 dance of 
the New York Clan will be held Feb
ruary 2, In the Hotel McAlpin. The 
committee is working on several un
usual Carnegie fealures.
An inviLallon to atLend has been 
exLended Lo Mrs. Andrew Carnegie.
OuL of Lown alumni who are in 
New York oiv that! nigiht may make 
reservations with Y. C. RLtter, 183 
St. Nicholas avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
There will be good music and good 
dancing.
GIRLS DORMS CHANGE THEIR 
NAMEINTEREST ,GROWS
AS NUMBERS WANE
(Continued From Page One.) 
Bolt," after tho record a poor benight
ed burglar made after wandering imsuspoctingly inLo Lhe house.
And now for the Freshmen! Poor 
forlorn mites, having tlioir firsl ex
perience wit.li dormitory life. Names 
mean a grdat, deal In Lhelr young lives. 
Starting with 51.51, we shall croato 
"Chesters Field, because Lhoy sat
isfy, 99 -M/100 per conL.
5147 shall lionceforth bo known as 
Bongiovannis Floating Palace," on 
nocount, of the vast amounts of rain 
water that; Sink through tho roof.
Gamp 51.43 Is no longer In exist
ence. It has boon replaced, by "Tho 
Log, a week-endly rocord of things 
that aro and are lo be.
5137 Is suggostivoly entitled "Show 
Him Inn", in all senses of the word, 
and Is a much used title!
5133 lias always been In spirit, and 
now will formally become, "The 
Conning Tower, or watch tower for 
the entire row!
If there are any corrections in title 
that anybody wishes to make, Lhey 
will be taken care of In a truly busi
nesslike manner.
TEKNON TO CONDUCT
CAMPAIGN ON CAMPUS
(Continued From Page 1) 
side help this year In raising the 
Student Friendship Fund.
South Africa has raised nearly -two 
thousand pounds, despite the appal
ling poverty in that country at pres
ent. Thirty-one students in one de
partment of Steijeribaseh University 
gave 23 pounds although nearly all 
of them were struggling to make 
6nds meet. During the summer 
holidays, students of twjcj South Afri
can high schools collected 300 pounds.
Women students in India have thus 
far contributed! 7501 rubles. Brazil 
has organized a national commission 
to stimulate support of the fund, and 
New Zealand is aimii>ng) at a 2,000 
pound gift. Great Britain is askin; 
for a shilling from, every student 
with the exception of Oxford and 
Cambridge, where five shillings is be
ing ask&d.
As for the United States; cam
paigns are getting under way in ali 
sections of tiho country; Last year 
1,090 schools and colleges contributed 
to the fund', and it is expected that 
I this year that number will bo ex
ceeded.
Tho campaign at Carnegie will bo 
early In tho second 'semester, th 
exact datte will be announced later.
Hook, Line and Sinker.
lie (ovor the phono): Want to go'
I to the banquet?
I She (excitedly): Oh. I'd love to.
I He: I'm selling tickets. Buy onei from me.University News.
ested in what she has to offer this 
time.
At the close of assembly, before the 
j begiuning of the mad rush to quiet 
j those relentless peristolic waves, the 
; Glee Club will assist the student body 
j in the singing of the new "Alma 
i Mater.
Many Girls Take Advantage 
of Vacancies Offered for 
Part Time Work
The Womens Employment Bureau 
is a very active branch of Carnegie. 
The bureau is mainlained chiefly for 
the benefit of the girls who find it 
desirable, to engage in parl-lime em
ployment, and Miss Hibbs of the Bu
reau would like to urge girls who 
would do part time work to come lo 
her office and report how much money 
they require and their vacant hours. 
Last year, through the bureau, studenls earned almosl $14,000. The 
work avaljable is widely varied, and 
includes clerical duties, the care of 
children, stenography, teaching (in 
night schools, settlements, communi
ties, classes in art, sewing, cooking, 
millinery, swimming and general ath
letics), serving at banquets at Ma
sonic Temple, selling in stores, and a 
number of girls are working for their 
board and room.
One of the interesting things these 
girls have been doing was the making 
of several fancy dress costumes for 
balls held in Sewickley during the 
Christmas holiday's. One girl has 
painted a portrait in oils, and several 
have been doing decorative painting 
and stenciling on furniture.
The Senior girls are urged to think 
of the work they would like to do, 
after their graduation, and they can 
make arrangements for a personal in* 
terview with Miss' Hibbs.
DATES TO REGISTER
ARE MADE KNOWN
(Continued From Page One.) 
person. Registration by proxy is hot 
permitted.
Veterans Bureau Students.
Students assigned to the Institute 
by the United States "Veterans Bu
reau are required to follow the same 
procedure indicated above for the reg
ular students in paragraph 1.
Special and Part-time Students.
All special students and those partLlme students who are registered dur
ing the flrsl senvesler in classes in 
Normal Art, Music, Home Economics, 
or Social Work, and who wish to 
schedule work for the second semes
ter may register during the week ot 
February 4th. The office of the Reg
istrar and that of  Lhe Cashier are 
open during lhe day until 4 p. m. (Sat
urday until 12), and on Monday, Wed
nesday, and Friday evening from 7 to 
9. iSuch 8tudenl8 must present at reg
istration a schedule card for the sec
ond semester which has been ap
proved by lhe department giving tho 
instruction.
Contrary to former custom, Inten
sive Week will not be observed this 
year. -The new system will give most 
students a weeks vacation' between 
semesters Instead of the usual week 
of drawing or inspection trips.
The official schedule is as follows:
February 1st, FridayFirst semes
ter ends.
February 5th, Tuesday, February 
(5t.lv, WednesdaySecond semester be
gins. Registration and payment of 
foes.
February 7th, ThursdayClasses 
beginFebruary 22nd, FridayLegal holi
day. No classes, day or night.
February 28th, Thursday, February 
29tli, Friday, March 1st, Saturday 
Examinations for the removal of con
ditions.
April 14th, Monday, to April 21st, 
MondayEasier recess. No classes.
April 21st, MondayNight classes 
resume.
April 22nd, TuesdayDay classes 
resume.
CARNEGIE GRADUATE TAKES 
POSITION AT COLUMBIA 
IN NUTRITION DEPARTMENT
Miss Harriet Stone, 20, who has 
been, until recently, in Honolulu as 
nutrition worker in the Social Serv
ice Bureau of that city, is now doing 
graduate work at Columbia Univer
sity. She has been appointed assist
ant in the department of nutrition. 
The fact that a Carnegie student is 
receiving such recognition by another 
college reflects, certainly, on the 
good of Carnegie.
Pat: Moike, why is kissing your
girl loilce emptying a bottle of olives? 
Mike: Give it up.
Pat: Cause if you get one the rest 
is aisy.
Georgia Tech..
Mystery of Cement 
Blocks Being Solved
Henderson, Former Carnegie 
Man, is Responsible
Those who have been around Ma
chinery Hall this year have probably 
noticed numerous poles, pillars, and 
blocks of concrete that have been 
erected on a testing ground to the 
right of the building.
Scotty Henderson, one of Carnegies 
former football stars, who is now con
nected with the Henderson Corpora
tion of Pittsburgh is responsible for 
these constructions.
Scotty, it seems, was one of those 
good all around students. He could 
always be found in the lead of any 
movement afoot and was always 
active in campus life but not at the 
expense of his studies, as he was 
above the average in scholastic stand
ing. All these positions were of 
minor importance to Scotty. Where 
he strutted his best was on .the grid
iron, playing tackle on the first team 
to represent the Plaid. Although he 
weighed less than one hundred and 
fifty pounds, his scrappy playing and 
aggressive nature more than compen
sated for the lack of weight.
Scotty was elected captain of the 
07 team. It seems, because of his 
weight, that S'cottys father objected 
to his playing football. Scotty resort
ed to a piece of strategy in telling his 
father that a captain never plays in a 
game but directs the team from the 
sideline. Tills won his fathers con
sent. But Scotty never directed the 
team from the sideline. He graduated 
with a degree in Civil Engineering in 
the class of 08.
Scolty was,always an ardent rooter 
and an enthusiastic Carnegie man. He 
has carried these qualities along with 
Ills pleasing personality into his busi
ness.
The construction work at Machinery 
Hall Is being done by the Henderson 
Corporation and is still in the experi
mental stage. The testing was con
ducted under the supervision of Pro
fessor F. M. McCullough of the Civil 
Engineering Department. When the 
work has progressed to the point 
where publicity is advisable, the Tar
tan will present more dope on the 
subject.
DO YOU RECALL? 
When the hockey stars for Carne
gie in 1906 were Alan Bright and 
Buddy Overend?
The subway from the city to East 
End was approved in 1907?
That Carnegie students acted as 
sub-conductors for the Pittsburgh. 
Railways Company in 1907?
When the Plebes kidnaped Samuel 
Harden Church, Henry Hornbostel 
and Uncle John Brashear before 
their banquet in 1907?
When there was a waiting list of 
5,000 students trying to get into Car
negie in 1907?
When the Pittsburgh papers said 
Carnegie had coliosal spirit in 1910?
When PittJ and Carnegie played 
hockey under assumed names, and 
were told .to quit the rough stuff in 
191Q?
May Organixe a New 
Clan in Canton, Ohio
Information May be 
From Mr. Spitler
Had
GIRLS PROM IS SCHEDULED
FOR FRIDAY, JAN. 18TH
(Continued From Page 1) 
as stated in a previous issue and it 
will endl at 2:00 oclock. The re
ceiving line Includes officials of the 
institution, the faculty, trustees, the 
two class presidents, pne from Arts 
and one from Margaret Morrison, and 
monubers of the Prom CommitLee. 
The grand march will not form until 
11:45, when all will go to the din
ing rcom for supper. The Rainbow 
Serenaders from Altoona promise 
novel musical entertainment.
The men's favors will be handed 
to them ab the door, but the girls 
must wait untlll the smpper to re
ceive llieirs. Of course lhe secret 
of the favors will not be known un
til that evening, but the girls Oil the 
Favor Commttltee are indeed pleased 
with them and feel that they will be 
fitting remembrances of a happy 
evening.
It has recently been called to the 
attention of the Alumni Office that 
there are twenty-four or more former 
students and graduates living in or 
around Canton, Ohio. At the present 
time the Carnegie people there are 
not organized, but with such a large 
number of potential members the for
mation of the clan should be compara
tively easy.
Any of the people named in the list 
below, or any other Carnegie man or 
woman interested in the formation of 
a clan in Canton are urged to see or 
write to Mr. Kenneth Spitler, 1130 
Seventeenth street, N. W., Canton. 
Mr. Spitler can also .be reached by 
means of the State telephone.
Below will be found the list for 
Canton and vicinity, which is correct 
to the best of our knowledge. If 
there are any changes, please notify 
the Alumni Office in Pittsburgh:
The Names Follow.
Ruth C. Belding, 22, 1025 Fifth street, 
N. W.
Grace A. Butcher, 20, 1113 Twelfth 
street, N. E.
O. C. Heffner, 15, 2015 Woodland Ave. 
Walter J. Heiler, 22, 917 Fulton road, 
N. W.
Loewy Hott, 20, care Eng. Dept., Unit
ed Alloy Steel Corporation.
Edmund G. Kittoe, Asso., 3300 West 
Tuscarawas street.
John P. Paca, 18, R. F. D. No. 1.
F. L. Salsgiver, Asso., 1415 Fourteenth 
street, N. E.
Robert W. Sclilumpf, 21, 31G Smith 
avenue, N. W.
Rugby H. St. John, Asso., 1137 Green
field avenue, W.
Howard C. Vuille, Asso., r717 Queen 
street, N. W.
Mrs. II. B. Walia, 09, 1511 Slvorb
street, N. W.
Russell A. Esslg, 23, R. D. No. 3. 
John O. Iiorger, 23, 1230% Cleveland 
avenue, N. W.
Virgil W. Whitmer, '23, G21 Tenth
street, N. W.
Lorin L. Ferrall, Asso., 2G24 Fourth 
street, N. W.
Helen B. McConkey, 23, 2G07 Cleve
land avenue.
Mary E. Fife, 23, 525 Fifth St., N. W. 
Kenneth A. Spitler,' Asso., 1130 Seven
teenth street, N. W.
Massillon, Ohio.
Mrs. Paul Bammerlin, Asso., rear 208 
North Mill street.
H. M. Bischoff, 1G, 15 Front street. 
Thomas J. Ess, 22, 42S E. Cherry St. 
Thomas D. King, Asso., 215 Pine St. 
H. M. Oberlin, 14, 317 E. Tremont St.
An Echo of Grey Towers.
Sir: He drinks, he swears and he
pets; but hes my professor and I 
love him.Anon.
The place you have been rook
ing for
THE OAKLAND RESTAURANT 
3711 FORBES STREET 
Our Motto: QUALITY-SERVICE
What a difference just a few cents make !FATIMA
