News 
Review 
See Page 4
Cross Country 
Victory 
See Page 5
VOL. 50No. 2CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUESDAY, OCT. 2, 1956
Name Band To Play 
At Homecoming Dance
Jerry Mercer, long featured on Sammy Kayes television show, 
will bring his aggregation to Tech October 13 to play for our Wise 
and Witty Homecoming Dance. This band will be a new experience 
in entertainment for Tech as Mercer is a comedian and vocalist as 
well as a master of the tenor sax.#--------------------------------------------------------
Although only 28, Mercer has apSteVeUSOU BttckerS
Ready For Fall 
Political Battle
peared with many bands across 
the nation including Buddy Mor|gws where he was featured vo
calist. He has worked with such
Jerry Mercer
To Play At Big Dance 
stars as Kathy Carr who recorded 
Ivory Tower. Mercer is particu
larly partial to crazy hats and has 
in his wardrobe a huge French 
Toeret, confederate cap, black derby 
and a leopard skin cap. In addi
tion to suf'h platters as Stompin 
at the Savoy and Blue Suede 
Shoes, Mercer has recorded for 
us ivy-leaguers a number entitled 
The Cap With the Strap on The 
fack.
The Homecoming Dance will be 
held Saturday night in the main 
Gym, and tickets will be on sale 
in Skibo the preceding week. 
During intermission the Home
coming Queen will present the 
fraternity display trophy and the 
Varsity Varieties awards.
SnS Scholarship 
A wards Made
The functions of the Scotch and 
Soda Club for the year 55-56 
came to a close with the awarding 
of scholarships to three of its 
members.
This year, the Executive Coun
cil of the club turned over to the 
administration five names that 
had been chosen from among a 
roup of ten, which in turn 
Warded the scholarships to the 
following persons: Frannie Jungk, 
senior drama student, for her in
valuable services to the organiza
tion, Bill Longyear, senior drama 
student, head writer for this 
years show, and John R. Baron, 
sophomore P&D student for his 
great cooperation with all the 
members of the club.
In 1952, the organization, 
through its Executive Committee, 
ipUnded three one hundred dol
lar scholarships. Since only mem
bers are eligible for the above 
mentioned scholarships, they are 
awarded on the basis of interest, 
service and potential value to the 
club, taking into consideration the 
applicants academic standing. For 
the coming year, the club hopes to 
increase the amount of the present 
scholarships, or to increase the 
rmmber of scholarships. Thus, it 
Pa matter to be studied and de
cided on at a future date.
At 8:00 last Thursday evening a 
small group of politically-minded 
students gathered in room AH 
231 for a Students for Stevenson 
organization meeting. Elliot Rothman, sub-senior architect and 
chairman of the public informa
tion for Students for Stevenson in 
Pittsburgh, led the meeting. In 
attendance were Mr. Edwin Fen
ton of the history department and 
Mr. John Hart and Mr. Neil 
Woodruff of the English depart
ment.
Announcing the program for Oc
tober, a month of concentrated po
litical activity, Elliot mentioned 
the need for the stimulation of in
terest through debates, speeches, 
and radio and newspaper coverage 
as well as by canvassing. Provid
ing general information to the 
public such as where to vote and 
how to submit absentee ballots 
will also be included in the pro
gram.
Campaign Extent
One of the questions brought up 
by the students was whether the 
Tech organization intended to 
back Stevenson and Kefauver or 
the entire democratic party. The 
group decided that the support 
of the presidential candidate and 
his running mate would be the 
extent of the Tech campaign.
Mr. Woodruff spoke to the group 
on the necessity for the demo
crats to win the independent vote. 
One way the Tech students may 
do this is by canvassing the 14th 
ward, which includes a great por
tion of Squirrel Hill and Oakland.
Final item on the evenings 
agenda was the election of offi
cers. After discussion the demo
cratic group decided to have a 
steering committee composed of 
Tony Robbi, Peggy Heath, Dick 
Block, Stanley Brochstein and 
Scott Johnston. Joyce Gunia will 
be secretary of the organization. 
Mr. John Marcus will serve as ad
visor to the group.
SC Elections
The election of department
al representatives to the new 
Student Congress will be 
held in various open depart
mental meetings at 4:30 to
day.
Rooms scheduled for the 
meetings are as follows:
Elec. Eng.......................MH 11
Mech. Eng.......................MH 10
Met. Eng.....................EH A220
Chem. Eng.............. EH 1112
Civil Eng.....................AH 123B
Physics..................... . EH 2208
Chemistry ................EH 2122
Math .......................... AH 115
Ind. Mgt....................SIA 213
Prt. Mgt.......................! AH 135C
Drama ...... Studio Theater
P&D..........7..............FA 302
Music ............................ FA 160
Arch...............Soph. Dr. Rm.
Gen. St.................... MM 112
Home Ec. . Mary Breed Hall 
Science...............Biology Lab.
$40,500 A warded For Studies 
In Engineering And Economics
A total of $40,500 in grants has been awarded to Carnegie Tech 
faculty members for research in varied fields. Three of the four 
grants will be applied to engineering research, while the fourth will 
---------------------------------------------------------#be used by SIA.
Professor Muelll The National Science FoundaTo Speak Oct. 9 
On Segregation
Second in a series of lectures
tion has made two of these grants. 
One of $6000 to Lawrence N. Ca  
jar, associate professor of chemi
cal engineering, will be used for 
research in the field of phase 
equilibria and thermodynamics
on Religion and the Political data for mixtures. The other of 
Choice will be Professor William $13,000 to Gaylord W. Penney. 
Muehl of Yale University, speakGeorge Westinghoiv-.e professor of 
ing in the Fine Arts Theatre at engineering, for studies aimed at 
11:30 on Tuesday, October 9. Segj diminishing air pollution, 
regation will be the particular isArmy Grant
sue Dr. Muehl will discuss in this ; A grant from the U.S. Army, 
series designed to provoke stuDepartment of Ordinance, has fadents and faculty to examine the cilitated $14,500 for research in 
basic presuppositions underlying j the hydrodynamical theory of 
particular political decisions. j lubrication by Edward Saibel, 
____________________________________ Mr. Muehl is the author of two professor of mathemtics
01*1 \v -11 O l?k,S PUi?iS.hfd The grant to the School of In-Sklho Will See fr Chr;f ans. published by dustrial Administration has been " 111 ^CC Association Press, and The Road made by the Bankers Trust Com.
Candidates
Following a long-standing tra
dition, the Homecoming queen 
candidates will be presented in 
Skibo at lunchtime today. The 
candidates are Ann Cargill, Karen 
Carlsen, G 1 o r i a^Cofsky, Zendy 
Long, Margie Snodgrass, Norma 
Patterson, and Bea Alexander.
As it was last year, campaigning 
will be slightonly enough to in
troduce each girl to the campus. 
The Skibo presentation at 11:45 
will be followed in the evening by 
a fraternity-dorm visitation, so 
that no man on campus will have a 
legitimate excuse for not knowing 
which faces belong to which 
names on the ballot. Voting takes 
place Tuesday, October 9, from 
11:00 to 1:30 in Skibo and will 
be handled as usual by APhiO.
Selection of Court
The court will be announced 
Wednesday, although the queen, 
who is one of the three on the 
court, will be kept a secret until 
the Carnegie Day ceremonies on 
Friday. Even she wont know of 
her role until five minutes before 
the skirl of the bagpipes an
nouncing the coming of the Queen.
It is a tradition that the queen 
be a freshman because it is sym
bolically fitting that the young
est in the family be the one to 
welcome those who have left the 
[Continued on Page 7]
More 56 Tecliites Than Ever
The enrollment continues to rise with the latest statistics showing 
that there are 3282 students registered at Tech this semester, a con
siderable increase over the 3102 at this time last year. For the third 
consecutive year, applications for admission were up more than 25 
per cent. New applicants from all# 
corners of the world numbered 
4,443 as compared with 3,500 last 
year. However, only 900 of these 
could be admitted, about 21 per
cent.
Surprisingly enough, with 180 
more students here than at this 
time last year, the freshman class 
is smaller, 789 to 797. This means 
there must be approximately 110 
new advanced standing students, 
and the extra people are upper
classmen who entered some time 
last year and have returned this 
term. As long as admissions re
main at the high level set last 
fall and upheld this fall, we can 
expect a steady increase for at 
least two more years.
The big increases are in En
gineering and Science and Fine 
Arts, which gained nearly 100 
students each. The freshmen are 
distributed almost the same as 
last year, except for an increase 
of 20 in Fine Arts and a decrease 
of 20 in Maggie Murph. No de
partments have made big ex
pansions in facilities as printing 
and P&D did last year.
The total male and female sta
tistics were not yet available, but 
they are expected to reveal that 
the ratio has remained at about 
three to one.
[Continued on Page 8]
to Persuasion, by Oxford Uni-pany of New York and the pub
lic accounting firm of Touche. 
Niven, Bailey, and Smart, The 
accounting t firm's $5000 will be 
used by Professor W. W. Cooper 
to investigate more effective in
ternal accounting control proced
ures in large business, and the 
$2000 from the Bankers Trust 
Company will support instruction 
[Continued on Page 2]
Professor William Muehl
Todays Assembly Speaker
versity Press. His range of educa
tional and professional interest is 
broad and has brought him into 
demand as a speaker at many col
leges and universities.
Experienced Educator
He received his A.B. in political 
science at the University of Michigon and an LL.B. at the Michigan 
Law School. He has been director 
of religious activities, and later 
director of forensics at the Uni
versity of Michigan. He is a mem
ber of the Michigan Bar Associa
tion, the American Arbitration 
Association, and is regional arbi
trator for Amalgamated Clothing 
Workers Union, as well as con
sultant to several business firms 
in the area of personal education. 
He is professor of practical Theol
ogy at Yale Divinity School.
The religious assemblies series 
is sponsored by the Committee on 
Religious Activities as a contribu
tion to the overall educational op
portunities of the Carnegie Tech 
community. First of the current 
series was the lecture by Rabbi 
Ilson today, on the Near East. 
Rabbi Ilson was secured through 
the Bnai Brith Hillel Founda
tion.
'ueen
Voting for Homecoming 
Queen will be held in Skibo 
next Tuesday, October 9, from 
11:00 to 1:30. All male stu
dents are eligible to vote.
Campus Chest 
Maps Plans For 
'56-57 Campaign
With an eye to the not-too-distant future, the Advisory Board 
to the Carnegie Tech Campus 
Chest met to begin formulation 
of plans for the 1956-57 campaign 
which this year is scheduled to 
open October 28 and continue 
through November 3.
Chairman of the drive, Evelyn 
Alessio, called the meeting of over 
25 campus leaders on September 
29 in the Morewood Dorm Coun
cil Room to discuss distribution 
of allocations and methods of soli
citation for this years Chest 
Campus Chest is Tech's only stu
dent appeal for funds which are 
allocated to local and national or
ganizations. Its philosophy is that 
students on a college level must 
accept their responsibility to the 
community and to those in need 
of aid and that their giving should 
be an educated one.
Student agencies such as the 
World University Service, it was 
felt by most of the board, should 
be the major recipients of the 
Chest as there is an evident need 
in this area. It was also felt that 
as members of a student commu
nity the world over our first obli
gation is to students. Last years 
Campus Chest netted over $2600, 
forty percent of which was 
allocated to student agencies. 
Thirty per cent was allocated to 
social service agencies such as Red 
Cross and Salvation Army and 
25% to medical relief groups such 
as Cancer and Infantile Paralysis 
Foundation. The Tech Special 
Project was carried out in the 
form of a $200.00 scholarship 
award to a Carnegie Tech foreign 
student.
This year the Campus1 Chest 
will collaborate with the Pitts
burgh United Fund so that a num
ber of new agencies will be in
cluded in the distributions.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 2, 1956
Civil Engineering Seniors 
Tour St. Lawrence Seaway
Nineteen Tech seniors recently concluded a five-day tour Satur
day of the St. Lawrence Seaway project. They were the first group, 
student or otherwise, to tour all the work sites of both the American 
and Canadian phases of the project.
The students, headed by Dr.#-------------------------------------------------------
Elio DAppolonia, associate pro
fessor of civil engineering, tour
ed the Canadian phase of the pro
ject under the auspices of the Ca
nadian Seaway Authority and ^he 
American phase through the St. 
Lawrence Seaway development 
Corporation and the Power Au
thority of the State of New York.
Dr. DAppolonia said that the 
trip gave the students an un
equalled opportunity to study 
rock and foundation conditions, 
the problems of concrete place
ment and construction planning.
The cooperation and guidance 
given us insured the success of 
the trip. We were able to get 
right down into the works and 
view the construction first-hand 
and not from the overlooks which 
are some distance from the actual 
works. In addition to the tour, top 
engineers held lectures and dis
cussion periods for the students 
covering the various aspects of 
civil engineering in the project, 
Dr. DAppolonia said.
Last Week of Summer
The group left their summer 
jobs a week before college opened 
in order to make the tour and, 
aside from the actual touring, 
made their own arrangements for 
the entire trip.
Leaving Pittsburgh Sunday, the 
students visited Iroquois lock site 
Monday, where they were guests 
of the St. Lawrence Seaway Au
thority. Later in the day, as guests 
of Ontario-Hydro Power, they 
watched house moving near Corn
wall and then visited the Canad
ian end of the Barnhart power 
dam.
Tuesday the students visited 
the Canadian Seaway work near 
Montreal, including the St. Lam
bert, Cote St. Catherine and 
Beaunarnois lock sites. They also 
toured the canal work at Caughnawaga.
Visit Many Projects
They were guests of the St. 
Lawrence Seaway Development 
Corporation and the Power Au
thority of the State of New York 
Wednesday and visited the Amer
ican half of Barnhart power dam 
and the long Sault control dam. 
On Thursday the tour included 
the Grasse River and Eisenhower 
locks and was completed by lec
ture sessions given by personnel 
of the Corps of Engineers and the 
Power Authority. The lectures 
covered concrete, soils and found
ation engineering, geology, and 
foundation and concrete prob
lems.
The tour concluded Friday with 
a tour of the Iroquois control 
dam on the American side and an 
inspection of the channel dredg
ing and rock dredging at Alex
andria Bay.
Among the students making the 
trip were Irvin Bence, James 
Bachmann, Joseph Bonk, J. R. 
Byrnes, David Dunsmore, John 
Farbarik, John Fleming, Walter 
Heintzleman, John Ittel, Benja
min Martinez, Robert Patterson, 
Charles Rees, Russell Jones, R. 
Stanton Over, James Johnston, 
John Demeter, R. F. Brissette, 
and Richard Walowit.
Visiting Professor 
To Teach In IA
A noted European educator, 
management consultant, and 
United Nations worker has been 
appointed a visiting professor of 
industrial administration here at 
Tech.
The appointment of Professor 
Kenneth J. Shone, head of the 
department of industrial admin
istration at the Royal Technical 
College, Glasgow, Scotland, for 
the 1956-57 school year, was an
nounced recently by Dr. George 
L. Bach, dean of the graduate 
school of industrial administra
tion.
His special interest is in pro
duction and production manage
ment and at Carnegie Tech he 
will teach at both the undergrad
uate and graduate levels, in this 
area.
Other appointments in the 
school are Charles Christenson as 
senior research fellow in industrial administration; Professor 
A M. Chung, a visiting assistant 
professor of Economics and Dr. 
James Walter as visiting assist
ant professor of industrial ad
ministration. Professor Chung is 
from Drexel Institute of Technol
ogy and Dr. Walter from the Uni
versity of California at Berkeley.
Faculty Grants
Eng.MH.10et A2gC hmi0 I] 
and research tn banking and fi
nance.
Faculty Honored
In addition to grants, the CIT 
faculty has been honored with 
various awards. Among these is 
the Grand Medal of Le Chatelier from the Council of the 
French Society of Metallurgy to
nrnnnnmnnnnnnnnmnmn...i..mi... mm....
CAMERAS
ARTISTS SUPPLIES
24-48 Hr. Developing
FRAMING - RENTALS 
REPAIRS - TRADE-INS
The FOTOSHOP
SQUIRREL HILL
5854 Forbes St. HA 1-6883
Sophomores Take 
Best Of Three 
In Tug Of War
The boisterous, bedinked fresh
men arrived in the bowl last Fri
day with a singular purpose  to 
out-pull the sophomores. The lack 
of a huge pushball caused the can
celling of the annual free-forall, but the tug-of-war gave those 
of class spirit and strong backs a 
chance to display these attributes.
The center or the rope was at 
midfield to start, with equal num
bers of sophomores and freshmen 
on either side. Buoyed by their 
spirit, the frosh won the first pull 
of a best of three. They gave way 
in the next, and both teams readi
ed for the rubber match. The 
sophomore class, determined not 
to lose for the second year in a 
row, went all out and won the 
match, but not without much 
grunting and groaning.
The charges by the freshmen 
that the sophomores were using a 
disguised brahma bull are com
pletely unfounded, as Highland 
Park Zoo refused to part with 
theirs.
Friday night the tuggers met 
the f rosh and soph women in 
Thistle Hall. Over one hundred 
danced to Jack Purcells rhythms. 
The Cwens and Scimitars spon
sored the hop and led the singing 
of school songs at intermission.
Tug of War
Sophomores pull a great cluster of vainly determined frosh in 
the Bowl during Fridays Fresh-Soph competition.
9 |yeflil dkz, CL
tpW
Andrew B. Speer 
Is New Doctor .
Dr. Andrew B. Speer is the new 
school physician. He replaces Dr. 
Snowden K. Hall, who retired 
this summer after six years at 
Carnegie Tech.
Dr. Speer received his B.S. de
gree from the University of Pitts
burgh and finished his medical 
training there in 1926. Since then 
he has been in private practice. 
He is affiliated with Columbia 
Hospital in Wilkinsburg and is 
head of the medical department at 
Penn Township Schools.
When asked how he likes Tech, 
he replied that about all that he 
had seen so far was a lot of peo
ple with colds. His interests include 
photography and tropical fish.
Dr. Robert F. Mehl, head of met
allurgical engineering. Presenta
tion will be made in Paris later 
this month at a series of meetings 
opened by Dr. Mehl with a re
port on research at Carnegie Tech.
A Fulbright Scholarship has 
been given to Dr. Sergio De Benedetti, professor of physics. He will 
teach and conduct research in nu
clear physics at the University of 
Turin, Italy. Dr. De Benedetti 
will leave for Italy in November 
and return in July.
I
fir
Of course. Most 
'everyone doesoften.
Because a few moments 
over ice-cold Coca-Cola 
refresh you so.
Its sparkling with natural goodness, pure and 
wholesomeand naturally friendly to your figure.'
Feel like having a Coke?
ftOTTlED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COIA COMPANY BY
QUAKER STATE COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO.
5722 Central Ave. HI 1-7011
Coke is E registered trade-mark. 1956, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
PITTSBURGH 
Symphony Orchestra
WILLIAM STEINBERG, Musical Director and Conductor
30*
Season Opens Oct. 12 and 14
FRIDAY Evenings and SUNDAY Afternoons at SYRIA MOSQUE
Special Student Rates
20 Concerts $"T .0020 Concerts 1Q.00
Afternoon Series *Evening Series7
Tickets: Mrs. King in the Registrar's Office
__________________________ 9 to 3:30 _=________

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 2. 1956CARNEGIE T ART ANPace S
----------------------------------------------------Fox And Sutton 
Get New Posts
Named to the top physics posts 
at Carnegie Tech are two Cana
dian-born physicists whose care
ers have travelled the same path 
since boyhood. They are Dr. John 
G. Fox, head of the department
of physics and Dr. Robert B. Sut
ton, director of the Nuclear Re
search Center at Saxonburg. They 
replace Dr. E. C. Creutz who held 
both positions before his resigna
tion in November 1955.
Both Drs. Fox and Sutton were 
born in Saskatchewan, Canada, 
received bachelors and masters 
degrees from the University of
&
*
On Campus
Mv1Mlg2 gA 3Bm2MAggM BgP yHMl nsMMst3 MM0cA
with MaxShuJman
FOOTBALL: ITS CAUSE AND CURE
At next Saturdays football frame, while you are sitting 
in your choice students seat on the ten-yard line, wont 
you give a thought to Alaric Sigafoos?
Who, you ask, is Alaric Sigafoos? Come closer, sit 
down, light a Philip Morris, savor that natural tobacco 
goodness, sigh contentedly, cross your fat little legs, and listen.
Alaric Sigafoos (1868-1934) started life humbty on a 
farm near Thud, Kansas. His mother and father, both 
named Ralph, were bean-gleaners, and Alaric became a 
bean-gleaner too. But he soon tired of the work and went 
to Memphis where he got a job with a logging firm. Here 
the ex-bean-gleaner worked as a stump-thumper. Then 
he drifted to Texas where he tidied up oil fields (pipewiper). Then to Arizona where he strung dried fruit 
(fig-rigger). Then to Virginia where he was a research 
assistant (book-looker). Then to Long Island where he 
dressed poultry (duck-plucker). Then to California where 
he lectured young women who were about to get married 
(bride-chider). Then to Minnesota where he cut up frozen 
lakes (ice-slicer). Then to Nevada where he determined 
the odds in a gambling house (dice-pricer). Then to 
Milwaukee where he pasted camera lenses together 
(Zeiss-splicer).
Finally he went to Omaha where he got a job in a 
tannery, beating pig-hides until they were soft and supple 
(hog-flogger). Here he found happiness at last.
ye/ouncf hippinas ft kit-'
Why, you ask, did he find happiness at last as a hogflogger? Light another firm and fragrant Philip Morris, 
taste that true tobacco flavor, puff, relax, let sweet lassi
tude possess your limbs, and listen.
Next door to the hog-floggery was an almond grove 
owned by a girl named Chimera Emrick. Chimera was 
pink and white and marvelously hinged, and Alaric was 
hopelessly in love the moment he clapped eyes on her. 
Each day he came to the almond grove to woo Chimera, 
but to no avail. He tried with all his vigor and guile, 
but she, alas, stayed cool.
Then one day Alaric got a brilliant idea. It was the 
day before the annual Omaha Almond Festival. On this 
day, as we all know, every almond grower in Omaha 
enters a float in the big parade. The floats always consist 
of large cardboard almonds hanging from large cardboard 
almond trees.
Alarics inspiration was to stitch pieces of pigskin 
together and inflate them until they looked like big, 
plump almonds. 'These sure beat skinny old cardboard 
almonds," said Alaric to himself. Tomorrow they will 
surely take first prize for Chimera, and she will be mine!
Early the next morning Alaric came running to 
Chimera with his inflated pigskin almonds, but she, alas, 
told him she was not entering a float that year. In fact, 
she had just sold her almond grove and was moving East 
to try out with the Boston Red Sox.
Alaric, upon hearing these glum tidings, flew into a 
violent rage. He started kicking his pigskin almonds all 
over the place. And who should be walking by at that 
very instant but Abner Doubleday!
Mr. Doubleday, who had invented baseball some years 
earlier, was now trying to invent football, but without 
success. The trouble was, he couldnt figure out what kind 
of ball to use. Now, seeing Alaric kick the pigskin 
spheroids, his problem was suddenly solved. Eureka!* 
he cried, and ran to his drawing board, and the rest is 
history!
Max Shulman, 195#
When you go to next Saturday*t game, the maker of Philip 
Morris, ipontort of ihlt column, tuggett you take along the 
perfect football companionPhilip Morrii, of corrht
Saskatchewan and their doctor
ates from Princeton University.
In 1946 both men joined the 
Carnegie Tech faculty as assistant 
professors after serving as re
search physicists at the Los Ala
mos Laboratories. In 1949 both 
were advanced to associate pro
fessors. Before their recent ap
pointments, Dr. Fox had served 
as assistant head of the physics 
department and later as acting 
head. Dr. Sutton served as as
sistant head of the Nuclear Re
search Center before becoming 
acting director.
B0V1 physicists are married and 
each has two children.
T ickets
Homecoming dance tickets 
and chrysanthemums will go 
on sale in Skibo next Monday 
from 11:30 to 1:30. Both can 
be obtained before that time 
through fraternity representa
tives. Tickets are $3.00 per 
couple, and mu~ns are $.90.
Committee Heads 
Face Great Task
John Alexander and Joyce Ber
nini are at the head of the Mortarboard-ODK Homecoming Com
mittee for Wise and Witty 1956. 
On the shoulders of these two 
falls the tremendous job of co
ordinating all the events and 
smoothing all the wrinkles in the 
Homecoming weekend. Of the 
million things that can go wrong 
in as large a production as Home
coming a few usually do at the 
last minute.
Even the best planned decora
tions fail to hold together, flowers 
ordered for the queens bouquet a 
week ahead of time dont arrive, 
willing workers who eagerly sign
ed up to decorate the Gym fail 
to appear Saturday afternoon, the 
band cancels at the last minute, 
sweat-over posters are blown 
away in a sudden wind before 
anyone has seen themthese are 
only some of the things that will 
happen when the whole committee 
is already working feverishly to 
produce Homecoming.
In the face of these everyday 
calamities the committee heads 
must keep a calm head and find 
a solution to the new problems. 
This is one job that is not just an 
honor but real work. And of course 
a few things will go wrong despite 
the hours of planning, *but these 
will be straightened out and only 
a few will know of them while 
the rest of the campus and the 
alums will know only that this 
was the best Homecoming ever.
Stamps
Students having foreign stamps 
with which they are willing to 
part for a good cause are re
quested to leave them with Dr. 
Kirkpatrick, AH 125-B. They will 
be used by therapeutic patients at 
the San Diego Naval Hospital.
Debate Club
The Debate Club of Carnegie 
Tech is hoding its first general 
meeting for freshmen and new 
members. The meetings will be at 
4:30 p.m. in room 229-B, AH, on 
Wednesday, October 3, and Thurs
day, October 4. Interested indi
viduals should be in attendance 
on either date. Those people not 
able to make either meeting should 
contact the club faculty advisor 
and coach, Mr. Trainor in Room 
332-E.
At the meetings, a member of 
the faculty of the history or 
economics department will dis
cuss this years topic, foreign 
economic aid.
Alpha Phi Omega
Alpha Phi Omega will hold fall 
pledging ceremonies this Thurs
day night at the regular meeting. 
Ceremonies will be held in the 
Carnegie Union at 7 p.m. Anyone 
who has not yet come to the meet
ings, and is interested in pledg
ing should see Jack Wienhold, 
physics sophomore. The only re
quirements are that you were at 
one time a scout, and have an in
terest in giving service to the 
school.
YM-YWCA
The YMCA and the YWCA 
Forum will hold its first meet
ing in the Morewood Gardens 
Blue Room at 5:00 Sunday 
evening. Dr. Robert Morgan 
of Carnegie Tech will be the 
speaker.
Citcom Clan Plans 
To Explore Cave 
In Near Future
Citcom Clan has a Cave Party 
scheduled for Sunday, October 7, 
1956 at Delaneys Cave, past Uniontown on the Summit.
Clan members will meet at Ski
bo 10:00 a.m. Sunday morning, 
and proceed from there to the 
cave. Members and guests should 
bring their own lunch, but re
freshments will be supplied at 
the Cave. Members will be reembursed for their transportation 
costs, but non-members will not.
Citcom Clan vice-president, 
Chuck Poirer, an experienced 
veteran of cave parties, gives 
this seasoned advice to novice 
cave-crawlers:
The cave is not exactly sup
plied with modern facilities, so 
those coming should be prepared 
for a cave crawl. Temperature in
side the cave generally' drops to 
about 40 degrees so warm clothes 
and heavy shoes will be suitable. 
It will also be convenient to have 
a flashlight, with good bulb and 
batteries.
HU lei
Hillel will hold its second 
brunch of the year on Sunday 
morning, October 7 from 12:00 to 
2:30 p.m. The guest speaker at 
this brunch will be Dr. Robert 
Schwarz of the humanities de
partment who will discuss the 
theme Men and their Ideas. Dr. 
Schwarz is the first of the series 
of speakers on this topic. Mem
bers and guests are invited. The 
brunch is $.65.
Citcom
There will be a general meet
ing for all old and new members 
of Citcom Clan on Thursday, Oc
tober 5. Because of scheduling 
difficulties, one meeting will be 
held at 11:30 and another at 12:30 
in the SIA Auditorium. Mem
bers should try to attend one or 
the other of these meetings, as 
roll will be taken.
Tech Wives Club
Because of inability to obtain 
a complete list of Tech wives, all 
prospective members may not 
have received one of the Wives 
Clubs announcements.
There will be a tea on Sunday, 
October 7, from 3:00-5:00 p.m. at 
the Carnegie Union.
International Club
Last Friday, 25 students were 
on hand to launch International 
Clubs 1956,57 season. A commit
tee was appointed to arrange the 
next regular meeting.
This Sunday, graduate student 
Tilbert Duponteil from Paris. 
France will present his views on 
the Poujade movement. Backed by 
three of his countrymen, M. Du
ponteil is prepared to serve un
der fire in a short discussion pe
riod.
The place is Carnegie Union; 
the time: 7 p.m., Sunday, October 
7. American and non-Tech stu
dents welcome. Refreshments will 
be served.
Playhouse
The Pittsburgh Playhouse is 
moving into full swing with re
hearsals now underway for the 
three opening productions of the 
community theaters twenty-third 
season.
The Broadway comedy Bus 
Stop will officially open the sea
son in the Hamlet Street Theater 
on Saturday, October 6. Schedul
ed to open a three week run in 
the Craft Avenue Theater, Anni
versary Waltz will begin on Oc
tober 20.
The very popular Playhouse, 
Jr. (for younger theater-goers) 
will launch its season on Satur
day afternoon, October 20 with 
an exciting fantasy, The King of 
The Golden River. One of five 
plays set for the junior bill, it will 
be presented at 2:30 on Saturday 
afternoons through November 24.
Want to get in a
high-scoring habit?
Add up all the points of this Arrow 
University shirt, and you cant help 
scoring on campus and off. Buttondown collar, front and center back.
 Full action box pleat for comfort.
And we have them in a wide range of 
favorite patterns and colors.
Can we get you in one soon?
Shirt, $5.00i all-silk repp tie, $2.50.
ARROW
first in fashion
SHIRTS  TIES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 2, 1956
EditorialsPolitics. . .
Whether hes for Ike or Adlai, nearly 
every student not living in a cave or the 
library has been assailed with campaign 
literature, red-white-and-blue buttons, and 
urgent requests to join the ranks.
Although the members of the faculty 
are serving as advisors, the election year ac
tivity on campus has been initiated and or
ganized by students ... a sure indication 
that the mythical academic recluse is on the 
way out.
With Student Congress getting under 
way, Techites will have an opportunity to 
learn about campus policies and issues and 
at the same time keep informed on the key 
domestic and foreign controversies around 
which Republicans and Democrats are cen
tering their campaigns.
The Tartan will run columns from both 
groups on campus, in addition to informing 
the student body of the rallies, debates and 
meetings slated for the pre-election weeks.
Interest in the nation-wide contest and 
participation in the local politics here at 
Tech cant be over-emphasized. As a part not 
only of the college community but of the 
nation, the individual student has an obligation to himself 
and his fellow citizens to do something about the election 
year , . . even if its just bull sessions in the dorm or 
wrangles over coffee in Skibo.
Faculty and students are doing their best to organize 
the national campaign on a campus level, but its up to the 
entire Tech population to get on the bandwagon and dis
prove the apathetic college student myth. -M.J.K.
DARLtNGr, WHAT DO ^
ng. MH10et gAMH2 90A 
AChm iCvvlM3
P-RSONAi.l.>; cfUJEET 
FAV0K * FTUMCTOATIM*^ 
PRIC SUPPORT h8nrAaMMv5I
. ... And Competition
Each year after major events such as Homecoming and 
Spring Carnival the faculty, administration, and student body 
individually or collectively discuss the evils of competition. 
The Tartan is equally guilty of such folly. However, this 
year wed like to jump in a little ear]y with this venture, 
in the hope that a word to the wise will prove more valuable 
while the sororities are practicing their skits and the fra
ternities are building their displays.
Certainly competitive activities are valuable. Part of 
college education is learning to work with and to lead others. 
But as pleasant as the displays and skits are to view, the 
value of the pleasure and experience is offset by the illfeelings aroused and the exhaustion caused by the intense 
work that goes on for so many weeks before the event.
(In order to lessen the time spent on Homecoming and 
to prevent summer activity the Homecoming Committee 
had each fraternity and sorority submit three ideas, one of 
which was to be pulled from a hatit was assumed that 
no group would go to the trouble of completing plans for 
all three. With an early Homecoming, the groups have only 
a short time to work out their ideas, and we doubt if its 
possible for them to work more intensely than in the past.)
If there is a need for unified effort to insure fraternity 
spirit and leadership experience, why is there so little sup
port of other campus and community projects, considered 
by some of greater worth? It has occurred to many over the 
years that this energy could be better directed to more worth
while causes with more than equal benefits gained by the 
groups involved. Of course this redirection is up to the fra
ternities and sororities themselves ....
S.A.M.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone, 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-8899; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertis
ing Managei; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Managing Editor ................................................................................................. Stephanie Mackay
Lucrative Editor ....................................................................................................... Robert Russell
Associate Editor ... .......................................................................................................... Marjo King
Associate Editor ............................................................................................................... Richard Fox
Business Manager ...................................................................................................... Martin Ostroff
Kens EditorAnn Forest. Sports EditorRobert Hoppe, Copy EditorEdwin 
RogerAssistant Business ManagerRobert Sorkin. Advertising ManagerRobert 
Peter-. Circulation ManagerHarley Bernbach. SecretaryJoan Seidel.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special
rates of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented for national advertising by Natinal Advertising, Inc.
Innovations
Traditionally, the first editorial of the year is 
devoted to advice for new students on how to 
last through four years here. This usually includes 
a pep talk for activities, and a subtle plea for 
Tartan staff members. But this year, this Student 
Congress thing and a Homecoming so imminent 
that it might as well be part of Rush Week have 
combined to monopolize most of the editorial com
ments, both this week and last.
The innovations in the recent Freshman Week 
were so successful in solving or partially solving 
several age-old problems that everybody was left 
poised and prepared to pick at Scimitars, Cwens, 
fraternities, CFP, the administration (a perennial 
scapegoat), or anybody else connected with Fresh
man Week, but there wasnt much picking neces
sary.
The fraternity tours were hailed as an ef
fective means of getting the rushees into all the 
houses for longer than the time required to pro
cure a hasty signature. There were minor com
plaints about time allotments, etc., but when these 
are settled the tours seem destined to become a 
fixture. Likewise, th Y-sponsored Freshman Camp 
will probably become an annual event, or at least 
it should. Nothing else in many moons has come 
close to inducing so much school spirit in so many 
people with so little effort and so much fun. The 
campers returned full of an exuberance which has 
at least delayed the onset of the characteristic 
Carnegie Tech apathy.
But in the opinion of the activities, the most 
successful event was the Delta Skull sponsored 
Activities Fair. Never before had there been an 
effective way of showing the new students the 
spectrum of extra-curricular activities available 
here. The Union open house for the girls in pre
vious years approached the idea which was car
ried out this year, but no analogous events were 
held for the freshmen men.
All of the participants in the Fair succeeded 
in meeting many interested future members who 
might not otherwise have been contacted. For this 
reason, we feel no driving need to push activities 
as their value has already been emphasized to 
everyone.
R.H.R.
Notas De Un Oyente
By Luis de la Macorra
It feels good to be back in school. At least I 
think so, and quite probably many other people 
agree with me. After a very nice three month 
vacation, you start to miss your friends, your 
work, the afternoon coffee and bridge game at 
Skibo, and you desire to be back at Tech. But be
fore I continue, I would flfce to welcome all the 
freshmen in the hope that they become good allaround Techites . . .
By now all the sororities are well aware of 
the new rushing rules. Comments from both the 
girls rushing and the ones being rushed (about 33 
in all) imply that the new rules are far better 
than the old ones. Nevertheless, I would like to 
raise a point: at the moment all the girls being 
rushed are upperclassmen, and with the new rules 
much personal contact has been lost. I wonder 
how it is going to be when they start rushing 
freshmen girls . . .
Speaking of sororities, I learned today that the 
Administration and Panhellenic Council are seriNews Review
By Marjo King
Monopolizing national headlines this week was 
the presidential race which is becoming more hard
hitting and hectic as the days go by.
Using their Peace, Prosperity and Progress* 
slogan as a focal point, the GOP pointed up their 
four-year record and answered attacks by the 
Stevenson coalition on foreign policy, presidential 
leadership, and the farm question. But the feeling 
was growing that only Ike can save us. The 
Republicans showed concern over Stevensons at
tacks and the crowds the Democratc are attract
ing with their wide-range, vigorous campaign.
Both candidates for the vice-presidency are 
working hard . . . Nixon to erase the impression 
he made in the 52 and 54 campaigns, and Kefauver 
touching small towns in poor farm or depressed 
economic areas where he blasted the administra
tions farm policy.
Kremlin Dissension j}
International attention was focused on the 
Kremlin when Tito and Soviet Premier Khrushchev 
rushed off from Yugoslavia to Russias Black Sea 
coast for a rest. Tito, who was ostracized in 
1948 for criticizing Stalinist policies, was welcomed 
back into the fold when the Khruhchev-Bulganin 
regime took over in February, 1955. A part of the 
de-Stalinization drive was to announce that the 
roads of Socialist Development are different in 
different states, giving the satellites free reign to 
change tactics and introduce new legislation. Con| 
sequent problems including the Polish revolt of 
June and a new reshuffling of leadership were 
brought to the Kremlins attention.
Three days before Khrushchev and Tito depart
ed for the Black Sea, it was reported that the 
Central Committee of the Soviet Communist Party 
issued a letter denouncing Tito as a Social Demo
crat and criticizing his independent policies.
Speculation on the Tito-Khrushchev incident in
cludes the theory that the Soviet leader may in
tend to get Tito to moderate his controversial poli-JP 
cies.
Israel-Jordan Violence
The Suez Canal crisis and increasing mid-east 
tension has touched off another series of ArabIsrael incidents, ending a temporary border peace. 
Two Sundays ago Jordan guns killed four Israelites 
and wounded seventeen. Israel retaliated Monday 
night with a raid on several Jordan army units. 
About thirty Jordan policemen and soldiers were 
killed.
U.N. Secretary General Dag Hammarskjol<ii| 
warned representatives of both sides to bring tl;e 
situation under control rapidly, threatening ac
tion by the Security Council.
Suez Debate
The U.N. Security Council will begin debate 
Friday on the Suez crises, after other attempts 
to mitigate the situation have failed. Nasser has 
refused without a counter-proposal a Big Three 
suggestion to establish an international board of 
control, and it has become clear that a boycott of 
the canal would hurt Western Europe more than 
Egypt.
ously thinking of building a house that would be 
called Panhellenic House. The idea is to provide 
the sororities with at least one room that they 
can call their own. At the moment, the sororities 
meet at the Union, but in rooms that were de
signed for other purposes and not necessarily to 
hold meetings. For the Administration to go ahead 
with this idea, it is necessary for all the sororities 
to offer very strong support, and I really hope the 
idea becomes a reality. The girls deserve to have 
a place of their own . . .
From now until the new Student Council is 
set up, everyone is going to hear much about: 
elections, representatives, petitions, etc., etc. But I 
wonder if everyone is going to be happy with the 
method being used to elect representatives to the 
Student Congress? I have heard many comments 
made by students, implying that they would much 
rather see the prospective candidates make a cam
paign. In this way the candidates would be better^ 
known to the voting body of the school and their in
terest to become elected would be easier to judge. 
Their promises and their ideas would become a 
rrfatter of discussion and thus the best prepared 
and most able candidates would be elected. This 
might be a matter that the new Student Council 
could discuss for use in the future . . .
TO WHOM IT MAY CONCERN:
Why did they chop down the tall and beau
tiful tree that used to be between Donner Hall 
and Maggie Murph? Why Was the 50th Anniversary *- 
issue of the Thistle so lousy after all the noise 
they made? What has happened with the little 
A Phi O Ugh Ugh lawn signs? Why are fresh
men girls cuter than ever? Why do the lights in 
the men dorms (all except Donner) go off five 
or six times a night? Why, around five oclock in 
the evening, does a dark brown smoke start to 
drift from the kitchen window of the Home Man
agement House? Why does Skibo coffee taste so 
good? (Impossible but true.) And so, I will just 
add hasta la vista and buena suerte ...

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 2, 1956CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
ttuffalos Fourth Quarter 
T.D. Tops Tartans, 13-6
By Sherry Neimark <
sj. The city of Buffalo gave the Carnegie Tech Tartans a royal wel
come with a police escort last Saturday afternoon, but the University 
of Buffalo Bulls were not so kind. An overflowing Homecoming 
crowd of about 7500 were on hand on a beautiful afternoon to
watch the hometown favorites^---------------------------------------------------------
hand our Tartans their first loss
of thisyoung football season. It 
was a hard and well-fought con
test with the huge Buffalo line 
proving to be the deciding factor.
Tech Scores First
Tech took the opening kickoff 
M|d unable to move the ball, punt
ed. Buffalo immediately began to 
drive, but Snyder, the Buffalo QB 
fumbled and Ken Ficery recov
ered deep in Tech territory. Two 
ten-yard gains by Myers and 
Schmitz moved the Tech team to 
midfield. A long pass from Briner 
to Ficery covering 25 yards put 
Tech in scoring position, where a 
12-yard pass from Tucci to Ficery, 
resulted in Techs only score. 
I^mmers point attempt was 
blocked.
In the second quarter a Tech 
fumble gave Buffalo the ball deep 
in Carnegie territory. But the
valiant little defensive wall led by 
Tony Capul and Jim Temmel held 
the Buffalo team on downs. Tech, 
now in control of the bail, was 
penalized to the five. Tucci punted, 
and Buffalo took the ball in Tech 
territory.
A screen pass to the 12 pu+ 
Buffalo in scoring position where 
their fullback plowed over from 
the two. The point attempt was 
wide. It was after the kick-off 
that Tech got off the longest run 
of the afternoon, a thirty-yard 
end sweep by Jesse Quatse. But 
the tough Bulls once again held 
Tech, and Tucci punted out on 
the Buffalo one-foot line shortly 
before the end of the first half.
Second Half
Buffalo kicked off to Tech to 
start the second half. A 12-yard 
gain by Myers and a 1-yard pass
from Tucci to Myers took the ball 
into Buffalo territory where the 
Bulls held; Tucci punting out on 
the eight. Buffalo, unable to move 
the ball, punted. Tommy Briner 
carried the ball for ten yards and 
tContinued on Page 8]
Tech's Cross-Country Course
The course starts and ends at the foot of Flagtaff Hill.
+Sportcoby Tom Bieg
Civil Grads, ATO B, Betas 
Victorious in First Contests
By George Paris
Limited action marked the opening of I.M. football season as 
the Civil Grads, ATO B, and Betas were victorious in their con
tests. Regular season play will begin this week as the foes in the 
Tartan, Kiltie, and Skibo leagues face heavy schedules.
The Civil Grads, headed by4----------------------------------------------------------
DiGioias brilliant passing, 
trimmed the DU B team 27-9. 
The Surveyors scored quickly, 
managed to stop DU drives, and 
held the lead for the rest of the 
mne. Neither team seems to have 
enough depth to cause trouble in 
the Kiltie League, although each 
could pull an occasional upset.
After overcoming an early lead 
by the Tau Delts, the ATO B 
team gained control of the game 
and won to the tune of 26-2. Sharp 
passes by Jim Bennett and bril
liant catches by Garibaldi and 
Kusic led their team to victory.
A spirited Beta team with a 
l^pd charging line jumped off to 
a quick lead and trounced the 
Sigma Nu N team 36-1. Led by 
quarterback Ted Flemings three
TD passes, the Betas completely 
controlled the contest.
This years leagues have the 
most teams since 1951 with 23 in 
all and more men than ever be
fore are participating. If the three 
opening games are any indication, 
there will be very few door
mats this year, a situation which 
will produce an interesting race 
to the final games. The appearance 
of three grad teams, sporting ex
varsity men, presents a definite 
threat to the leagues which have 
been eliminated by fraternities in 
the past). We even nave two fac
ulty men playing, who prefer to 
remain anonymous.
Mr. Birdy, wno Is heading the 
IM program, has set up the fol[Continued on Page 8]
With the Intramural season barely begun, it is. already obvious 
that the play-for-fun league, as the Tartan varsity squad and its 
opponents are nicknamed, pertains only to inter-scholastic football. 
Any resemblance to IM* ball is purely coincidental.
Every fall there is a great crop of injuries in Techs touch 
football league, and this year the crop promises to be even larger, 
if the preseason toll can be taken as any indication. There have been 
three broken collarbones in the first week of practice, in addition to 
the smaller injuries commonly incurred!
Why do we play intramural sports?
Of course every enthusiastic participant plays to win; but 
equally important, Techs extensive I.M. program is designed for 
improvement of mind and body, and as refreshment from the daily 
grind. However, todays I.M. football player carries as his identi
fication badge an assortment of black and blue marks and adhesive 
tape.
The players wear no protective equipment, other than ankle 
wraps, yet the style play closely resembles that of tackle football. 
There are rules governing the techniques of the game designed to 
reduce danger, but in the past they have been flagrantly ignored. 
The officials who are studentsusually one from each team (it is 
impossible to pay professional officials)do the best they can, but 
officiating requires experience in quick judgement and observation 
and handling of difficult situations, besides a thorough knowledge of 
the rules.
Why all this rough play? I disagree with the casual assumption 
that it is caused by the fraternities, either making the field their 
battle-ground for settling rivalries or giving all-out for that coveted 
trophy. This disagreement is supported by the pre-season injuries, 
afflicted in practice games when the outcome doesnt count, the pur
pose being to perfect the methods of attack and defense more than 
to win. And it isnt caused by the officials or the I.M. committee, 
which does a good job of organization and supervision. The blame 
for this unhealthy situation should be put on the attitude of the boys,
Our Harriers Win 
Easily Over Young 
Jeanette Harriers
Coach Bob Carmans Plaid Ihinclads easily downed the Jeanette 
Harriers 17-38. Swinging in rather 
undisturbed were Techs Larry 
Bryant, Eric Ottervik, and Arnie 
Olds. The Tartan trio waltzed in 
a tie for first place in a comfort
able 20 minutes 57 seconds. They 
were followed by Jeanettes Don 
Lamby in fourth and then Car
negies Len Elikan and Phil Hub
bard as fifth and sixth.
The Harriers were not a real 
threat at any time and the easy 
win in no way predicts the ability 
or inability of the Tartans this 
season. Unavailable due to in
juries were Bill Whitman, last 
years freshman sparkplug and 
Tom Harder, hard-running senior 
newcomer from Swissvale,' Pa. 
Both lads will be missed as the 
thinclads go into their intercol
legiate competition next week 
against a highly touted Geneva 
squad.
Joe Visconti Neiv 
I.M. President
At the last meeting of the IM 
board, officers for the 55-56 sea
son were elected. They are Joe 
Visconti of Phi Kap, president; 
the players themselves. Once on the field no one has control over Frankes, BSR, vice-president; and 
their attitude. And the popular attitude with too many is to win at Bruce Bowen, DTD, secretaryall costs, to overcome disadvantages by overlooking rules and sportstreasurer.
manship. The brackets for the IM and
What can be done about this attitude? Now, before the season? all-school tennis tournaments are 
progresses too far, is the time for the I.M. board to crack down, by completed, and two rounds should 
tightening rule enforcement, maybe by adding another official and 
for drastically stiffening penalties, even to the extent of suspending 
players or teams from play.
But most of all. the change must be in the players attitudes.
There are certainly enough sportsman-like players to lead the dis
senters into the proper viewpoint.
be played off this week. If you are 
the top man in your bracket, it is 
your responsibility to contact the 
bottom man and arrange your 
match as soon as possible. The 
penalty for not doing so is the for
feit of the match to him.
Duane Feisel Wins 
Football Contest
Duane H. Feisel, a metallurgy 
grad, was the first winner of this 
Taaars weekly Tartan football contts. He picked all the correct 
winners of the games for which 
he will receive a 57 Thistle. Four 
persons tied for second place with 
only one mistake apiece. Dave 
Terris, a senior E.E., and Leo Lojek, a junior Chem. E., both miss
ed the Carnegie-Buffalo game; Joe 
Desimone, a senior E.E., picked 
Cornell over Colgate; and Mrs. 
Shannon Feisel, a freshman dra-r
tic student, missed the Pitt 
ie.
Tartans Meet Johns 
Hopkins This Week
After being downed by the 
Buffalo Bulls 13-6, the Tartan 
squad will take on the Blue Jays 
of Johns Hopkins this Saturday 
at Forbes Field. The Black and 
Blue, under the direction of vettn head coach John Bridgers, is 
preparing to make a fine showing 
this weekend. They played a 
grueling contest to a 7-7 deadlock 
against Franklin and Marshall 
Saturday.
This is the fifth contest between 
Tech and Johns Hopkins. The ser
ies began in 1952 when Carnegie 
won 40-6. Two Tech shutouts fol
lowed  27-0 in 1953 and 25-0 in 
]^4. Last year Coach Bakers 
t^s whipped Johns Hopkins 26-6.
TARTAN FOOTBALL CONTEST 
For Games on October 6, 1956
Team
Carnegie Tech
Army
Cornell
Pennsylvania
Notre Dame
Michigan
Minnesota
Northwestern
Ohio State
Wisconsin
Duke
Missouri
Texas
California
Washington
Score Team
........... Johns Hopkins
Penn State
........... Navy
........... Dartmouth
........... Indiana
........... Michigan State
........... Purdue
........... Tulane
Stanford
........... So. California
........... Tennessee
........... So. Methodist
........... West Virginia
........... Pitt
........... Illinois
Score
NAME ...................................................... DEPT.CLASS
PITTSBURGH ADDRESS ....................................................................................
A 1957 Thistle yearbook will be awarded to the winner of the 
TARTANS weekly football contest.
Read the contest rules below and fill in and deposit this coupon 
in the intra-school mail box, addressed to the TARTAN. All coupons 
must be entered by midnight Friday to be eligible for the following 
days games.
Contest Rules
1. Only CIT students will be eligible 01 compete.2. Each contestant will predict not only the winner, but also the final score
of the game. Entries will be judged on the number of correct decisions; in case I 
of ties, entries will be judged on the correctness of the scores.
3. All entries must be sent to the Tartan through intra-school mail by midnight 
Friday of the contest week to be eligible for consideration.
4. Each student may submit only one entry. If more than one entry is sub|
mitted by a student, he or she will be disaualified.
5. Entries will be judged by the Tartan sports staff and the winners will be
announced in the issue following the contest. Decision of the judges is final.
6. Winner of each week's contest will receive a J957 Thistle subscription, re
deemable at the time of publication.
BMPy Agh hsCc8
V \\ \ \\ \\ 'I '
ra 5I2dv2l AS2!D
S'S/,,1, I | > \ 
IF I HAD A MILLION I
Life, he cried, is so unfair 
I should have been a millionaire!
Id drive a car, a white Jaguar
with leopard trim and built-in bar, 
Complete with blondes and red heads too, 
A movie queen or two would do . . .
Im lazy, crazy, debonnaire
Id make a perfect millionaire!*
Instead, he 9obbed, at twenty-five 
Ill have to work to stay alive!
MO*AU If you are $999,999.00 short of being 
a millionaire, but you like your pleasure big, 
Enjoy the big full flavor, the big satisfaction
of a Chesterfield. Packed more smoothly by 
Accw-Ray, its the smoothest tasting smoke today I
So, try 'm. Smok* for rol .  . tmoke Chtt*rffld!

---------------------------------------------------

Page eCARNEGIE TA STANTuesday, October Z, 195
Beards:
Beards are now fetching $5000 
an ounce.
This super price tag results
from a nation-wide search by a 
New Jersey firm for men with 
beards three months old or more. 
Ronson Corporation, in news
paper ads across the country Sep
tember 25, offers $5000 per ounce 
for the privilege of shaving the 
beards of men selected for an
electric shaver commercial on a 
network TV program.
In addition to the heavy perounce payment, selectees get an
--------------------------------------------------------
all-expense-paid trip and two-day 
stay in Hollywood, where the TV 
program originates, beginning Oc
tober 4.
You Can Win a Cash Award
and Scholarship Money for Your College in
Readers Digest
$41,000 CONTEST
Open to All College Students (Faculty, too!) 
Nothing to buy...nothing to write
... and you may find you knozv more about 
people than you think!
Huo o2!! Du auT &7uo ITFE7 7EvTl26 Can you tell
what subjects interest people most? Here is a chance to test your 
judgmentshow how good an editor you areand you may win 
$5,000 for yourself, plus $5,000 in scholarship funds for your 
college.  %
Its fun to try. Maybe you can top other students in 
colleges across the country .. . and you can match wits with the 
editors of Readers Digest.
Why do far more college graduates read Readers Digest than 
any other magazine? What is it that makes the Digest the most 
widely read magazine in the world  with 11 million copies 
bought each month in the United States, plus 9 million abroad? 
Why is if read each month by at least 60 million people, in 12 
languagesArabic, Danish, English, Finnish, French, German, 
Italian, Japanese, Norwegian, Portuguese, Spanish and Swedish?
Can you spot in a typical issue of Readers Digest the uni
versal human values that link scholars, statesmen, scientists, 
writers, businessmen, housewives? Can you pick out the articles 
that will be most popular with the average Digest reader?
You may find .. .you know more about people than you think!
Heres all you do. Study the descriptions (at right) of the articles in the 
October Readers Digestor, better still, read the complete articles in the 
issue itself. (But you are not required to buy The Readers Digest to enter 
the contest.) Then simply list the six articlesin order of preferencethat 
you think readers of the magazine will like best. This will be compared with 
a nationwide survey conducted among a cross section of Digest subscribers.
Follow the directions given below. Fill in the entry blank, paste it on a 
post card, and get it into the mail before the deadline. Additional blanks are 
obtainable at your college bookstore.
All entries must be postmarked not later than midnight, October 25,1956. 
Dont delay. In case of ties, the entry with the earliest postmark will win.
Just pick in order the six articles 
you think most readers of October 
Readers Digest will like the best
READERS DIGEST CONTEST, Box 4, Great Neck, I. I., New York 
In the space opposite the word FIRST write the number 
of the article you think will be the most popular of all. 
Opposite the word SECOND write the number of the 
article you think will rank second in popularity. List in this 
way the numbers of the six top articles in the order of their 
popularity. (NoterUse only the numbers of articles you choose. 
Do not write the title of any article.) Clip and paste this cou
pon on a Government post card.
first__
Second.
TWrtl__
Fourth
Fifth.
Sixth.
1
I
!i
i
i
i
i
i
i
YOU CAN WIN:
pRRR GEdI Ldv blSW2
plus $5000 for the scholarship 
fund of your college or. . .
pLRRR GEdI k7D blSW2
plus $1000 for the scholarship 
fund of your college or . . .
Any of TEN $500 cash prizes
plus $500 for the scholarship 
fund of your college or . ..
Any of 100 $10 prizes
in book credit from your 
local college bookstore
And if your entry is the best from your 
college you will receive an extra award 
an additional $10 in book credit 
at your college bookstore.
FOLLOW THESE EASY RULES
1. Read the descriptions in this adver
tisement of the articles that appear in 
October Readers Digest. Or better, 
read the complete articles. Then select 
the 6 that you think most readers will 
like best.
2. On the entry blank at left, write the 
number of each article you select. List 
them in what you think will be the 
order of popularity, from first to sixth 
place. Your selections will be judged 
by comparison with a national survey 
which ranks in order of popularity the 
6 articles that readers like best. Fill in 
and mail the coupon. All entries must 
be postmarked not later than mid
night, October 25, 1956.
3. This contest is open only to college
students and faculty members in the 
U. S., excluding employees of The 
Readers Digest, its advertising agen
cies, and their families. It is subject to 
all federal, state and local laws and 
regulations.
4. Only one entry per person.
5. In case of ties, entries postmarked 
earliest will win. Entries will be judged 
by O. E. McIntyre, Inc., whose de
cision will be final. All entries become 
property of The Readers Digest; none 
returned.
6. All winners notified by mail. List 
of cash-prize winners mailed if you 
enclose a self-addressed, stamped enve
lope.
Name. 
City__jState.
Name of college_
Reader
^ Digest
 Its popularity and influence art world-wide
Which six articles will readers 
of the October Digest like best?
1. Norfolk friand to troubled teen-agers. Story of the ar
thritic cripple to whom youngsters flock for advice.
2. The great Piltdown hoax. How this famed missing link 
in human evolution has been proved a fraud from the start.
3. How to sharpen your judgment. Famed author Bertrand 
Russell offers six rules to help you form sounder opinions.
4. My most unforgettable character. Fond memories of Con
nie Mackwho led the Athletics for 50 years.
5. How to make peace at the Pentagon. Steps to end ruinous rivalry between our Army, Navy and Air Force.
6. Book condensation: MHigh, Wide and Lonesome. Hal
Borlands exciting story of his adventurous boyhood on a Colorado prairie.
7. Medicine's animal pioneers. How medical researchers 
learn from animals new ways to save human lives.
Nf. What the mess in Moscow moans. Evidence that the 
Communist system is as unworkable as it is unnatural.
9. Master bridge builder. Introducing David Steinman, 
world leader in bridge design and construction.
10. College two years sooner. Heres how extensive experi
ments proved a bright 10th-grader is ready for college.
tl. Laughter the best medicine. Amusing experiences from everyday life.
12. What happens when we pray for others? Too often we 
pray only for ourselves. Heres how we gain true rewards 
of prayer when we pray for others.
13. European vs. U. S. beauties. Why European women are 
more glamorous to men.
14. Trading stampsbonus or bunkum? How much of their 
cost is included in the price you pay?
15. Living memorials instead of flowers. A way to honor the 
dead by serving the living.
16. It pays tonincrease your word power. An entertaining 
quiz to build your vocabulary.
17. Are we too soft on young criminals? Why th best way 
to cure juvenile delinquency is to punish first offenders.
It. Medicine man on the Amazon. How two devoted mis
sionaries bring medical aid to jungle natives.
19. Creatures in the night. The fascinating drama of nature 
that is enacted between dusk and dawn.
20. What your sense of humor tells about you. What the 
jokes you like, the way you laugh reveal about you.
21. The sub that wouldnt stay down. Stirring saga of the 
U.S.S. Squalus rescue from a depth of 40 fathoms.
22. Madame Butterfly in bobby sox. How new freedoms have 
changed life for Japanese women; what the men think.
23. Doctors should tell patients the truth. When the doctor 
operated, exactly what did he do? Why a written record of your medical history may someday save your life.
24. How wonderful you are... Heres why affection
and admiration aren't much good unless expressed: why 
locked-up emotions eventually wither.
25. Harry Holt and a heartful of children. Story of a farmer 
who singlehandedly finds homes for hundreds of Korean war orphans.
26. Our tax laws make us dishonest. How unfair tax laws are causing a serious moral deterioration.
27. Venereal disease now a threat to youth. How V.D. is 
spreading among teen-agersand sane advice to victims.
28. Secy. Bensons faith in the American farmer. Why hefeels farmers, left alone, can often solve their own problems better than Washington.
29. Your brains unrealized powers. Seven new findings to 
help you use your brain more efficiently.
30. Britains indestructible Old Man. What Sir Winston
Churchill is doing in retirement.
31. Are juries giving away too much money? Fantastic
awards juries hand out because they confuse compassion with common sense.
32. My last best days on earth. In her own words a young 
mother, learning she had cancer, tells how she decided to make this the best year of her life.
33. Foreign-old mania. How the billions weve given have brought mainly disappointment and higher taxes.
34. Out where |et planes ore born. Story of Edward Air 
Force Base, where 10,000 men battle wind, sand and speed barriers to keep us supreme in the sky.
35. Life in these United States. Humorous anecdotes revealing quirks of human nature.
36. Mans most playful friends the Land Otter. Interesting 
facts about this amusing animal.
37. Why not a foreign - service career? How our State De
partment is making foreign service attractive to young men.
30. A new deal In the old llrehouse. How one town got lower taxes, greater protection combining fire and police.
39. Crazy man on Crazy Horse. Meet the man whosestatue of an Indian will be the largest in history.
40. Their business Is dynamite. How the manufacture of this explosive has been made one of the safest industries.
41. His best customers ore babies. How a kitchen strainer 
and a pint of mashed peas became the Gerber Products Co.
42. Smoky Mountain magic. Why this, our most ancient mountain range, has more visitors than any other.
43. Call for Mr. Emergency. Meet the Emergency Police, 
who get 8 million New Yorkers out of trouble.
44. Beauty by the mile. How landscape engineers prove roadside planting is lifesavlng as well as beautiful.
45. Humor In uniform. True stories of the funny side of life in our Armed Forces.
46. Seven economic fallacies. The American Economie 
Foundation explodes misconceptions about our economy.
47. Admiral of the Greek OH Fleet. Story of Stavros Niarehos, who has won a fortune betting onand carryingoil.
o
<r
I
&
G
<4

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, October 2, 195CARNEGIE TARTANFace 7
nr
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
^ Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor................................................................................................Emily Muhic
Reporter .............................................................................. John Van Holt, Jr.
Newman Club Starts Its Year 
With Get Acquainted Party
The Newman Club held several meetings at the home of their 
f^sident, Dolores Neff. They also had luncheon meetings at the 
Chinese Tea Garden and YMCA. Picnics were held at South Park 
and Koosher Park. ?
A Get Acquainted Party was 
held at the Carnegie Union on 
September 23, 1956. A large num
ber attended the social event. 
Fred Pope and Lee Green enter
tained with colored slides of Ja
pan, Hawaii and Pittsburgh, Pa.i
ancing, singing and playing 
Prds were the diversions of the 
evening along with eating coffee 
and cookies which were available 
at all times.
Anthony de Roo of Belgium and 
Jose Angonisti of Argentina found 
many interested listeners as did 
Jo and Joe Morgan who told of 
their honeymoon trip to Europe. 
Bob Perkins and Mike McGinnis 
were busy comparing business 
ifgjtes while Gene Dragojevich was
Dr. R. S. Ramsay 
Joins E.S. Staff
Effective July 1, 1956, Dr. Rob
ert S. Ramsay joined the staff of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology 
as assistant director of evening 
classes and lecturer in psychology. 
Dr. Ramsay is a graduate of MusiStoigum College and Michigan 
State University. He will serve as 
evening class liaison representa
tive for Carnegie with industrial 
firms in the Pittsburgh area, and 
will also teach courses in psychol
ogy.
Dr. Raiusays professional ex
perience includes teaching at An
derson College (Indiana) and 
serving as senior advisor for men 
^ Michigan State University. His 
Most recent affiliation was that of 
assistant professor of psychology 
at the University of Colorado.
Workers Picnic 
At Cement Plant
On July 15, 1956 Student Coun
cil held a Workers Picnic at the 
Universal Cement Plant. A large 
fc&mber of members and their 
families attended. Light refresh
ments and watermelon were serv
ed, in addition to the packed 
baskets brought by the members.
Horseshoes, badminton, baseball, volley ball and races were 
held. The races proved quite in
teresting, especially the egg 
throw when someone caught the 
egg a little too hard. The diaper 
class stole the show in their 
pawling race to win a prize. All 
in all, it was a swell picnic.
The next meeting will be held 
October 7 at 2:00 p.m. in the Un
ion. Anyone interested in joining 
this group is urged to attend the 
meeting.
Pfha Most Modern Dance Spot
PGH.i DANCE CLUB
Mere Than Just A Ballroom
feherwyn Hotel ES! <4j<L
FBI., OCT. 12# P.M. to 1 A.M. 
And every Friday thereafter 
ORCHESTRA if Tech Invited
-------------1949-------------
STUDEBAKER CHAMPION
4-Door with Heater .... In 
Excellent Mechanical Condition
$80 Privately owned
* Phone: MU. 1-8355
having fun pinning everyone with 
a name card. Lee Green took pic
tures which eventually will be 
displayed as were those taken dur
ing the past year. Mary Ann and 
Nancy Knuth, twins from Chat
ham college were welcome guests.
The next meeting will be held 
October 14, at 7:30 p.m. at the 
Carnegie Union at which time Fr. 
Louis Neni will give a talk on 
What Makes Catholics Tick.
Anyone interested in joining 
this group will be welcome to at
tend this meeting.
Sideline News 
And Views
Hustle And Bustle
Now that the mass hysteria 
that usually accompanies every 
class registration has subsided, a 
period of normalcy has returned 
to the Tech campus barring class 
changes, dropped subjects, etc.
The registration operations were 
smoothly handled by the members 
of the faculty and the administra
tive office force. Student Council, 
as always, was also active in helpto process new and former stu
dents. Council representatives re
sponsible, were: Mary Alice Peter
son, Vince Golobic, Matt Bertovich, Ed Daly, Emily Muhic, and 
Harry Thorn.
Fall Frolic Forming
To kick-off the social calen
dar activities plans are presently 
underway for the Student Coun
cil sponsored Square Dance 
scheduled to be held at Thistle 
Hall. A change of opinion is in 
store for those of you who opine 
that square dances are strictly 
for squares. The last affair of this 
type, sponsored in May, drew a 
large enthusiastic crowd and was 
thoroughly enjoyed by those in 
attendance. Announcement of the 
affair was made by the campus 
radio station and helped to swell 
the turn out which included many 
day school students. More infor
mation on this affair will be forthPIFCSO Officers 
Elected By E.S.
The Pittsburgh Intercollegiate 
Federation of Catholic Students 
Organizations will be guided by 
the following officers for the 
1956-1957 schol years: president, 
Marion Froelicher (Mt. Mercy 
College); vice president, John Van 
Holt, Jr.( Tech); treasurer, 
Charles Taylor (Pitt); recording 
secretary, Irene Patterson (Chat
ham College); corresponding sec
retary, Dolores Neff (Tech); his
torian, Jim Kelly (Pitt).
coming in future editions of this 
column.
The Classical Corner
The Pittsburgh Symphony So
ciety will begin celebrating 30 
years of top flight musical enter
tainment by presenting a host of 
world acclaimed artists scheduled 
for appearances at the Syria 
Mosque beginning October 12.
Student tickets are priced at 
$9.00 for the Friday evening con
certs and $7.00 for Sunday after
noon programs. Dalzell McKelway, registrar of evening classes, 
can be contacted for ticket in
formation.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra will again be conducted 
under the baton of Maestro Wil
liam Steinberg.
There is an increase of 80% in 
the scheduled concerts and the
Queen
[Continued from Page 3] 
family to become independent.
The queen candidates will visit 
the fraternities and dorms this 
evening in the following order:
8:00 p.m.Donner Hall; 8:10 
p.m.Tau Delta Phi; 8:20 p*m. 
Alpha Tau Omega; 8:30 p.m. 
Beta Theta Pi; 8:40 p.m.Delta 
Upsilon; 8:50 p.m.Theta Xi; 9:00 
p.m.Pi Kappa Alpha; 9:10Del
ta Tau Delta; 9:20 p.m.Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon; 9:30 p.m.Phi 
Kappa; 9:40 p.m.Sigma Nu; 9:50 
p.m.Beta Sigma Rho; 10:05 pjn. 
Kappa Sigma.
Democrats
The students for Stevenson 
organization will have a ta
ble during lunch hour in Skibo where all interested stu
dents may obtain information.
Notices will be ported an
nouncing the time and place 
of the next meeting.
Sunday afternoon concerts are in
creased from 12 to 20. The Men
delssohn Choir, choral groups 
from Tech and Duquesne, as well 
as many world renown artists are 
scheduled to appear this season.
HAPPY-JOE-LUCKY presents STICKLERS!
STUCK FOR MONEY? DO A
//
STICKLERS ARE TICKLERS and a mighty soft way to make money! 
Just write down a simple riddle and a two-word rhyming answer. For 
example: Whats a ball player who gets a raise? (Answer: richer 
pitcher.) Note: both words must have the same number of syllables 
bleak freak, jolly dolly, vinery finery. Send your Sticklers, with 
your name, address, college, and class, to Happy-Joe-Lucky, Box 
67A, Mt. Vernon, N. Y. Dont do drawings! Well pay $25 for every 
Stickler we use in our advertisingand for hundreds that never see 
print. And rememberyoure bound to Stickle better when youre 
enjoying a Lucky, because Luckies taste better. Luckies mild, goodtasting tobacco is TOASTED to taste even better. Fact is, youll say 
Luckies are the best-tasting cigarette you ever smoked!
SEND IT IN AND
MAKE
"IT'S
TOASTED
to taste 
better!Luckies Taste Better
SA.T.C. JeryMc, or t/ide J^njtxi&cvn
syHshf ymggMHsh V
AMERICAS LEADING MANUFACTURER O CIGARETTES

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, October 2, 1956
Buffalo
[continued from page 5] 
it looked as if the Tartans were 
on the move.
It was here that fate struck a 
blow for Buffalo as John Tucci 
pulled up with a cramp in his leg 
and was forced to leave the game. 
The Tech attack bogged down and 
a bad center on a field-goal at
tempt by Hammer gave Buffalo 
the ball. After an exchange of 
punts the fighting Bulls began to 
use their size to advantage as the 
fourth quarter started.
Deciding Score
The inspired Buffalo eleven 
drove down the field ending in a 
one-yard touchdown plunge by the 
right half. The conversion was 
good. Buffalo kicked off but Tech 
fumbled on the first play. It was 
at this point that Larry Cassett 
dumped the Buffalo QB on two 
successive plays for a total loss of
25 yards. Buffalo was forced to 
punt. The tired Carnegie eleven, 
led by Tucci, tried in a last des
perate attempt an all-out pass
ing attack which failed on the 
Buffalo 15. The Bulls took over 
as the clock ended play.
John Tuccis brilliant all-around 
generalmanship highlighted the 
Tartan attack throughout the game 
and greatly outweighed the Car
negie lines offensive and defen
sive work. All in all the game
proved to be one of the most
exciting seen at this field for sev
eral year.
Statistics
BUFFALO CARNEGIE
10 ................ First Downs ................. 15
136 .... Net Yards Rushing-... .127
47 ........... Net Yards Passing ...... 68
183 ................ Total Offense ....................195
11 .... Forwards Attempted .... 17
4 .................... Completed .................... 6
0 ............ Intercepted by .......................... 1
4   Punts ...................... 6
28.4 ............ Average Punts ......................39
2  ...... Fumbles 2
1 ....................... Ball Lost ................ 2
57 ___ Yards Lost Penalties ... 13
Enrollment
Eng.MH.10e A2gC hmi0 1]
The totals for this year and last:
1956-571955-56
. 17301639
Fine Arts.......... 700606
MMCC ............... 486501
Printing Mgt. ... 154164
Industrial Mgt..95101
Grad. SIA.........6751
Library Science4140
Grad. Pysch ...9
, 32823102
Freshmen
. 392389
. 232212
. 112132
Printing Mgt. ..3438
Industrial Mgt..1926
789797
IM Football
Edg.MH.10e A2gC Smi0 5] 
lowing rules. Compliance with 
them means smooth operation of 
the light schedule.
1. Game Time: 4:30 p.m. Games 
must start by 4:40.
2. Officials: Get ball, watch, 
whistles, clipboard, and officials 
jersey.
3. Managers: Get jerseys, yard 
markers. Team on the right under 
teams on schedule is home team 
and is responsible for equipment.
4. Players: Basketball shoes are 
regulation shoes; no low cuts are 
allowed. Ankle wraps must be 
worn by every player. Note: Ankle 
injuries incurred during a game 
when wraps are not worn will not 
be covered by insurance.
5. Each team must furnish one 
official for their games, under pen
alty of forfeit.
The following games are sched
uled before the next !m2Mm. issue.
Today
Met. Grads TX
ASCE SN S*
Citcom ATO A
Wednesday 
Trojans DU A
static charges BSR
SAE PKA
Thursday 
Civil Grads KS
PKA TDP
BTP DTD
Friday
SN N Clyde St. AC*
ATO B Grad Iggles
Monday 
ATO A PKA
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
 Try Us First  1
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923il
withBRIAN KEITH  KIM HUNTER  PAUL KELLY  KEVIN COUGHLIN
Story and Screen Play by DANIEL TARADASH and ELICK MOLL* Directed by DANIEL TARADASH 
Produced by JULIAN BLAUSTElN . A PHOENIX PRODUCTION  A COLUMBIA PICTURE
fimpay OCT. 5-JOHN P. HARRISrRIUAT ---------------------------------------------------------downtown-----------------------------------------------------------
