SMm^EEKLYMTlMnTS
OfTHE
(AMEdlE-TEOiaLMTOM
VOLUME VJANUARY 25, 1911NUMBER 17
PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIA

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
#S fS
$ ':8 fi *J jMost nice affairs whether ,i f ' (:>4 it be a Ball or Dinner are ,k.j , ,.t :} held at The Rittenhouse, <* '-Jwhere every appointment ';im
'1 s\5 it?^...................................... ^ ^ ..........................................tfl
is perfect,
1
iiis55~ii~5i~siss;si;ss;ssc5i;s5ss>;s5sss$s
jjr Boys This is the Headquarters for 
W HART, SCHAFFNER & MARX AND ft
ft "SOCIETY BRAND CLOTHES 5i
ir See Our Suit & Overcoat Special for $20 & $25 |T
{(( H. A. FRIEDBERG *
?S 439 Smithfield Street, - - Pittsburgh, Pa. W
^ Open Evenings VV
  ---------------------------------------------- --- ---  isiH>f%
SS5S5S52
ft JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY,W^ Craig and Forbes St., ^
 Beginners Class Tuesday and Saturday. 
Advanced, Wednesday and Friday. 
J? PRIVATE LESSONS DAILY. ^\\S  "\iSCeSiOSiSOSSiOSSSOSSiOSSiO-^iOSSiOSSSCe^OSSiOS
2 *?5 *
Joseph Horne Co.
PENN AND FIFTH AVENUES.
A Broad Gauge Store
having 80 selling departments, in which the 
live factor of small profits has built a trade 
reaching millions annually.
Some of the accommodations for the public: 
Large Waiting Room,
Writing Desks and Materials,
Retiring Room for Women,
A Public Restaurant,
Telephones at East Counter,Telephone Booths, ^
Room to Check Luggage, .g.
Messenger Service, 
t Taxicab Calls, *.
A Sub-Post Office, 
A House Physician, 4>
Hospital on Premises. ^
O
A COMPLETE LINE
Of
Drawing Instruments and Supplies 
Cameras and Photographic Supplies 
Eyes Examined, Glasses Ground, Frames Fitted
Wm. M. Stieren Optical Co.
623 LIBERTY AVENUE
?i*V,*******i
*
Get your class fobs either nickel, silver or 
gold, any year, at the SC*HENLEY LUNCH, 
Craig and Forbes.
Special offeronly a few fobs left at 25 
cents. SCHENLEY LUNCH.
K**0\*0X*0\*0%*0\*v\*0N*K\*vS*0\*0*
38X>c "SToia. Snow
that we print more books than any firmin the East End ?.........................
3D '2i3. ST33.0-W
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf
lets elicit the admiration of lovers of Fine
Printing ?........................................................
3Do ~2"on ^Iro.o-^r
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If you are fastidious, if you require 
prompt and efficient service, come to .
SPilKE <5z. MTSCHEE,
6117-6119 Kirkwood Street 
Mu. H. J. McCorkle, Mgr., Tartan, is 
our representative at Tech.
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
I
I 
g a 
$
OSOXOXOX^SO\OXOXQXOXOSOSO\OXOXOXO\OX^\xxxx wxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx \ OAKLAND BUTTER MARKET ?
5 Dealers inJ BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA. COFFEE J J AND CANNED GOODS '2 3714 FORBES STREET >5 Bell Phone Schenley 
S\VNN\SNVSW\%V\N%WSV\\%VW VUVW
v jQuality the Best Prices Moderate {
? Bellfield Restaurant and Lunch Room 
* Corner Craig and Forbes Streets <
* PITTSBURGH, PA. '
* SPECIAL RATES TO STUDENTS $x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x*x$
XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXSXXXXX
| KURTZ, LANGBEIN & SWARTZ J
 /Q Are now iu their new building, 535 Wood Street *I* riO Stationery, Engraving, Artists Materials g
O Draughtmens and Engineers Supplies /<4i
XXXXXXXXS&SXXXXXXSSSKXSXXSXXXX sx^sss

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. V PITTSBURGH, PA., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1911 No. 17
TECH AND PITT PLAY FAST GAME
On Friday, January 20, the Tech Varsity basket 
ball team played its first game of the season in 
Pittsburg. The game was with the University of 
Pittsburg on their own floor, the Duquesne Gardens, 
and resulted in the score: Tech 25Pitt 30.
Long before the game, the crowd began to arrive. 
After the seats were partially filled, the cheering 
began. This lasted throughout the entire game, 
being at times quite deafening. Many women could 
be seen in the crowd, their hats and gowns giving a 
pretty touch of color to the scene.
When the players came out upon the floor, they 
were cheered individually and collectively many 
times. After a brief practice the two teams lined 
up for the game. The briefest glance, showed how 
greatly our men were outweighed. This disadvan
tage, however, they expected to overcome by their 
superior team work. This hope was well founded, 
as they outpassed the Pitt team throughout the 
game, and had it not been for the wonderful shoot
ing of Farmer, they would have been returned vic
tors. The little forward, however, shot magnifi
cently from the foul line. Out of 28 free chances, 
he caged 22, besides getting two goals from the 
field in the second half. Captain Budd contributed 
the other four points by two very pretty field goals.
The team work and passing of the Plaid team 
offset this work in the first half and throughout the 
greater part of the second half. Then the greater 
weight of our opponents began to tell. Then, also, 
Captain Williams >vas thrown against the screen 
and badly cut, and although he gamely continued the 
game, he was far from being as fast as he was be
fore he was hurt. Du Barry was also cut by a fall 
against the cage in this half. Another handicap in 
the second half was an arc light which was placed 
directly behind the Pitt basket. The rays from this 
lamp made anything but a short shot almost impos
sible. Accurate foul shooting, unless accustomed to 
the glare, was very difficult. During this half, Keltz 
scored on only 4 out of 11 free trials.
For Tech, the individual star was Du Barry. The 
little guard was all over the floor, stopping all at
tempts to dribble, and seldom allowing a man to 
get a clear shot from a short distance. He also fed 
his forwards in an excellent manner. Captain Wil
liams excelled in floor work and scored one basket 
on a long shot. Jordan shot well, while Saunders 
covered his men in excellent fashion. Keltz outjumped Lindsey at all times.
For Pitt, as has already been stated, Farmer 
starred. Once during each half, he scored seven 
times from the foul line without a miss. Captain 
Budu also shot well, while Lindsey played a good 
guarding game.
Keltz scored the first points shortly after the game 
began on a field goal. Pitt then shot a foul. Keltz 
shot a foul and then added another two points on 
another goal from the field. During the entire half, 
Tech was not headed, scoring 16 points altogether. 
Jordan scored two points on a goal from the field, 
while Keltz shot 10 out of 18 goals from foul. Pitt 
could not score from the field during this half, all of 
their 12 points being gained by Farmer from the 
foul line. In this half he missed only four chances.
Pitt started the second half with a rush, gaining

---------------------------------------------------

iTHE TARTAN
five points before Tech was able to score. Farmer 
converted 10 out of 12 chances into scores for Pitt, 
while Keltz could only negotiate four out of eleven. 
Jordan and Williams secured field goals and Jordan 
also shot one foul. Late in the game, Kilgore was 
substituted for Saunders in the hope that he would 
be able to score, but this was unavailing. Dr. Flint, 
late captain of the University of Pennsylvania team, 
officiated well. Score:
Tech25. Pitt30.
Jordan ....................................F.................................. Farmer
J. Williams..........................F........................................ Budd
Keltz ......................................C.................... .. Lindsey
Du Barry.................................G.................................... Weger
Saunders-Kilgore ...............G.............. Bonine-Campbell
Goals from the fieldJordan 2, Keltz 2, J. Wil
liams, Farmer 2, Budd 2. Goals from foul-Farmer, 
22 out of 28; Keltz, 14 out of 30; Jordan, 1 out of 1. 
Score at end of first half; Tech 16, Pitt 12, Referee 
Dr. Flint.
FREE LECTURE COURSE ANNOUNCEMENT.
Course Open to Students and Public to be Given by 
School of Applied Industries.
These lectures are open to the public and to the 
students of the schools, and are intended to afford 
those engaged in the Industries an opportunity 
to keep in touch with the latest developments made 
in the particular field covered by the lecture.
The lectures will be fully illustrated, and will be 
given in Room No. 104 of the Applied Industries 
BuLding at 8.15 P. M. on the dates scheduled.
After the lectures, those who desire to go through 
the School of Applied Industries will have an op
portunity to see the students at work in the various 
shops, laboratories and drafting rooms.
PROGRAMME
Jan. 26thModern Foundry Practice and its De
mands. Thomas D. West,
Foundry Expert and Manager, Cleveland, Ohio.
Feb. 9th-Spur and Bevel Gearing.
George W. Klages, 
Superintendent of the John A. Brashear Astronomi
cal Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Feb. 23d-Spiral and Worm Gearing.
George W. Klages, 
Superintendent of the John A. Brashear Astronom
ical Works, Pittsburgh, Pa.
March 9thCupola Practice.
John C. Knoeppel,
The Knoeppel Company, Buffalo, N. Y.
March 23dGlass. J. I. Arbogast,
Glass Specialist, Pittsburgh, Pa.
April 6thIndustrial Education.
Samuel Hamilton, 
Superintendent Allegheny County Public 
Schools.
April 20thModern Developments in Electric 
Power Stations.
Chas. Sanderson, 
Westinghouse Electric Mfg. Co., Pittsburgh, Pa.
May 4thLarge Engines of Duquesne Works.
H. L. Schreck, 
Mackintosh-Hemphill Co., Pittsburgh, Pa.
INSPECTION VISITS.
The week between semesters, starting Monday, 
January 30, 1911, will be devoted to trips of inspec
tion at various mills, furnaces and manufacturing 
plants in and about the city of Pittsburgh. The 
Senior, Junior and Sophomore classes of the School 
of Applied Science are to be included in these tours 
of investigation. The Plebe class will be given a 
week of special work, probably mechanical drawing. 
The custom of taking a week of inspection visits was 
inaugurated last year with the change from the 
three-term to the two semester system. Some trips 
will be made by all the students in the separate de
partments, while on some days the different classes 
will form a basis of division. Each department has 
an interesting schedule outlined and a week of solid 
enjoyment and incidental benefit is assured. The 
following is the list of manufacturing establishments 
and mills which will be visited:
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores
Westinghouse Air Brake Co.
Universal Portland Cement Co.
National Tube Co. (National works and 
Christie Seamless Works).
Jones and Laughlin Co. (Aliquippa Plant).
Mesta Machine Co. (optional).
Department of Electrical Engineering 
Seniors
East Liberty Sub-Station.
Westinghouse Electric Co.
Carrie Furnaces.
Brunots Island Power House.
Juniors
Oliver Plant.
Allegheny Light Co.
Westinghouse Electric Co.
Phipps Power Plant.
Sophomores
Standard Underground Cable Co. 
Westinghouse Electric Co.
Carnegie Institute.
Carnegie Steel Co.
Department of Metallurgy 
Seniors and Juniors
Jones & Laughlin Steel Co. (Eliza Furnaces 
and South Side Works).

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
Crucible Steel Co. (Park Works).
Edgar Thomson Steel Works.
Jones & Laughlin Steel Works (Aliquippa 
Plant).
(Probably) Griffiths Tin Plate and Knobbling 
Plant at Washington or Mesta Machine Co. 
and Homestead Steel Works.
Department of Civil Engineering
Seniors
Cement Works.
Railroad and Bridge Trip.
Scottdale and Pipe Works.
U. S. Arsenal.
Washington, Pa., Sewage Works.
Juniors
Cement Works.
Railroad and Bridge Trip.
Bridges.
U. S. Arsenal.
Washington, Pa., Sewage Works.
Sophomores
Cement Works.
Aliquippa Plant, Jones & Laughlin.
Instrument Company.
U. S. Arsenal.
Bridges.
MUCH INTEREST SHOWN.
Offer of A. Heimert, the Oakland Hatter, for a new 
Tartan Cover Meets with Approval.
The $10.00 prize contest for a new cover for the 
Tartan has aroused a responsive chord in the hearts 
of those who are interested in drawing and illustrat
ing. The prize is offered jointly by Mr. A. Heimert, 
the popular Mens Furnisher and Hatter of Oakland 
and the Tartan. Mr. Heimert has expressed himself 
as well pleased with the evident interest shown in his 
enterprize and expresses himself as expecting some 
clever designs.
Th contest is being conducted by the Tartan and 
every undergraduate in the Carnegie Technical 
Schools is eligible to compete. The Illustrating Class 
of the School of Applied Design expects to enter sev
eral drawings and designs of unusual merit are sure 
to result. A few necessary rules have been estab
lished to which the contestants must conform. Other
wise, the cover-design is left entirely to the ingenuity 
and skill of the artist. A slight change (that regard
ing size of drawing) has been made in the require
ments. This was made in order to make the work 
easier for those competing. The designs will be 
judged by a jury composed of Dean McGoodwin, Mr. 
Hewlett and Mr. Sparks of the School of Applied 
Design; Mr. Tarbell, Registrar of the Schools; Mr. 
Lamoree, Mr. Mitchell, and Mr. Henderson, Editors 
of the Tartan.
Drawings will be received in Room 129 of the 
School of Applied Design until 9 A. M. Monday, 
February 6, 1911. They are to be presented on white 
bristol board and shall be exactly one and a half 
times the size of the Tartan cover, 1113-16 in. x 15% 
in. They are to be in black and white only, for re
production by the zinc etching process. The author 
of the prize design will be required to redraw it under 
the crticism of the jury of award if in the opinion of 
the jury this should be necessary to render it satis
factory for reproduction.
In the preparation of their designs competitor 
should take into account the following points:
1 The designs should be adapted for reduction to 
the actual size of the Tartan cover 7% in. x 10% in.
2 They should be appropriate to their special pur
pose.
3 They should be rendered in the broadest and\.simplest possible way, to carry well when reduced.
4 They should provide for the title and other 
lettering used on the Tartan cover now in use. This 
lettering should be especially good in character and 
well drawn.
5 It should be borne in mind that a cover design 
of this character should be first of all agreeable in 
composition; and that any illustrative elements in
volved in it should be simple in kind, of obvious in
terpretation, and presented in the broadest possible 
way. A cover design of this character should not 
demand close attention for interpretation but should 
tell its whole story at a glance.
JUNIOR PROMENADE.
The Junior Promenade committee met last Friday 
and made the final arrangements with reference to 
the dances and music for same.
With the help of Daugherty, the leader of Gounods 
orchestra, which has been engaged, the committee 
has been able to make a splendid selection of the 
popular and appropriate music for the affair.
Harry Lauders songs will accompany one or t:vo 
of the dances. The extra dances will go by the 
names of the several departments of the schools such 
as the Mechanical Dance, Applied Design Dance, 
Civil Dance, etc.
Invitations to the Alumni are being sent out and a 
large representation of that body is expected.
R. A. Porterfield, Junior Civil, has been appointed 
by the chairman to act as treasurer.
The assignment of space for club booths will be 
made by the committee right after inspection week 
and in the meantime the committee will be glad 
to hear from the clubs with reference to this matter.
F. R. Keally of the Applied Design, Interior Decora
tion Department, will have charge of the decorating 
of the ballroom. Under his supervision and that of 
his faculty it is expected that the decorating of the 
ball room will be a big feature of the affair.
CLEVER POSTER.
A clever advertising poster by Moss, Art Editor oi 
the Thistle, has been put up upon the bulletin board 
in the Applied Industries building. It is a realistic 
reproduction of our old friend Fatty, the Cop, and is 
an excellent likeness. Mr. Moss is proving that he 
can fill his office efficiently.
/

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
ATHLETICS i
**4* -----------------------------------------------  ___ A ** %
INTER SCHOOL BASKETBALL LEAGUE, GYMNASIUM NOTES.
WonLostPercent.
Science Plebes ............................. 201.000
Science Sophs .............................. 201.000
Industry, First Year................... 101.000
Science Juniors ........................... 01.000
Design Sophs ........................___ 01.000
Industry, Second Year.........___ 01.000
Design Juniors ........................... 01.000
Design Plebes ........................___ 02.000
First Year Industries 15; Second Year Industries 
13.
On Saturday, January 21st, the first year men of 
the School of Applied Industries won from the year
lings of the same school by the score of 15-13. The 
game was fast throughout, but the Newcomers were 
enabled to finish in the lead by the fine work of 
Warden. Heckel played well for the second year 
men.
The game between the Science Plebes and the 
Science Juniors on Saturday, was forfeited to the 
former team by th score of 2-0, as their opponents 
did not have a team ready at the appointed time.
As neither team appeared on the floor on Saturday 
for the game between the Juniors of the Science and 
Design Schools, each was credited with a loss. It is 
greatly to be regretted that the upper classmen are 
taking so little interest in the league, as it would 
afford many a chance for much needed exercise.
Science Sophs 13; Design Plebes 8.
On Monday the Design Plebes were defeated 13 
to 8 by the Science Sophs in a fast game. The score 
at the end of the first half was 75 in favor of the 
first year men. In the last half, good shooting by 
Baird pulled the Engineers out of the hole, while the 
Artists were able to count only two fouls. The play
ing of Baird and McCusick was excellent, while 
Bailey scored a very pretty basket from a difficult 
angle.
Science Sophs13. Design Plebes8.
Simpson ........................Forward................... McCusick
Crane ..............................Forward..........................j. Evans
Clements ..........................Center....................... Humphries
Baird .................................Guard............................. Andrews
Bailey ...............................Guard.................................... Findt
Goals from the fieldBaird 2, Crane, Bailey, Mc
Cusick 2. Goals from foulBaird 5 out of 7, Mc
Cusick 3 out of 6, Humphries 1 out of 3. Referee 
Mr. McCulloch.
f
All entries for the hand ball tournament must be 
in by Saturday, January 28. The drawings will then 
be posted and the men can arrange to play their 
games at odd times during the day when no class is 
on the floor.
Immediately after inspection week, Mr. McCulloch 
will call out candidates for the school gym team. All 
candidates will receive the benefit of his personal 
coaching.
It is pleasing to note the increased attendance at 
the various gym classes. The first stiffness has dis
appeared and the men are beginning to note the 
benefit that they derive from the exercise.
Mr. McCulloch requests that the men be careful 
in the use of the hot water in the shower baths. The 
last comers usually find that the supply of hot water 
is exhausted and that they must use the cold if they 
wish to bathe. Have a little human sympathy for the 
last comers and run the warm water only when 
actually using it.
INDOOR TRACK MEET.
It has been decided to enter contestants in the 
following events at the indoor meet at the Duquesne 
Gardens on February 11: Mile relay, 600-yard run. 
300-yard dash, 60-yard dash, high jump and shot 
put. All men having had experience in any of these 
events are requested to see Mr. McCulloch at the 
Field House. ' The runners will use the Auditorium 
Rink at Broad and Larimer avenues as a place to 
practice. The P. A. A. men will also train there and 
it is expected that great benefit will be derived from 
their coaching.
BASKET BALL TEAM TO TAKE TRIP.
The Tech basket ball team leaves Friday for a 
weeks trip through Ohio. Captain Jimmie Williams 
will not be able to accompany the team. Du Barry 
will also remain in Pittsburgh. The loss of these 
two men will make quite a hole in the team, but 
the five men who will line up against the Ohio Col
leges have been working together all week and the 
team is expected to make a good showing. The 
following men will take the trip: Jordan, Kilgore, 
Saunders, Mandeville, Keltz, R. Williams. On re
turning all efforts will be bent towards the winning 
of the second game of the series with Pitt.
The schedule as revised stands as follows:

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
Jan. 27Marietta at Marietta.
Jan. 28Denison at Granville.
Jan. 30Ohio University at Athens.
Jan. 31Cederville College at Cederville.
Feb. 3Mt. Union at Alliance.
Feb. 4Hiram College at Hiram.
Feb. 10Pitt at the field house.
Feb. 13Geneva College at Beaver Falls.
Feb. 17Grove City at Grove City.
Feb. 18Marietta College at the field house. 
FeD. 21Geneva College at the field house.
 eb. 25Allegheny College at the field house.
INDUSTRIALS LOSE.
The Industrial Basketball Team traveled to Car
negie last Friday where they were defeated by the 
High School team of that place. The Industrials 
were handicapped in having to play with twelve inch 
baskets. Heckel, the center, had a six-footer to 
jump against and showed up well against his lengthy 
opponent. The referee seemed partial and over
looked many fouls committed against the Industrials. 
Heisel especially suffering in this way. OMalley 
played a star game at guard, while Criswell did the 
best forward work, scoring four field goals. The 
score:
Industrials29. Carnegie High41.
M. Ahlers-Criswell . . .Forward. ........................ Ramsey
Longmore .....................Forward................................. Cole
Heckel..............................Center................................... Kipp
OMalley-H. Kiefer ----Guard.................................. Riley
Heisel ................................Guard............................. Stewart
Field GoalsCriswell 4, Longmore 4, Ahlers 2, 
Heckel 2, Heisel 2, Cole 8, Ramsey 6, Kipp 5. Fouls 
Industrials 1 out of 4, Carnegie High 6 out of 16. 
RefereeRoben. ScorerSchliefer.
WHITE FRIARS TRIALS.
White BMars tryouts, cast and chorus, were held 
in the A. I. assembly hall last Wednesday evening. 
A fine turnout of candidates was on hand and they 
were put through the mill until the lights went 
out. The first part of the first act of Senorita, 
this years play, was read and received with much 
eclat. Coach Edmundson is well pleased with the 
general spirit which has been shown and expects to 
stage the best show in his career. Final trials will 
be held after inspection week and then the for
tunate aspirants for thespianic fame will begin work 
in dead earnest. The musical work, under the di
rection of Mr. Dorrington, will be a feature of the 
play and is being looked after in an able manner.
Mr. Edmundson has a full line of new dances 
which he will work into the chorus and a sensation 
is promised. Scenic effects will abound and the 
lauguorous, sensuous atmosphere which pervades 
the entire show will prove an excellent background 
for some really humorous situations and some good 
acting.
Every member of the Friars is working hard to 
make the show a success.
MECHANICAL SOCIETY.
On February the 11th the Mechanical Society will 
meet and hear a lecture on water purification by Mr. 
Greth of the Wm. B. Scaife & Co., of this city.
Mr. Greth is the manager of the concern and is a 
well known authority on water purification.
He has already read several papers this year to 
various societies and has kindly prepared one to 
read before this society. His address will bear par
ticular reference to boiler feed water. Lantern slides 
will be used for illustration.
SCHOOL OF APPLIED DESIGN.
The members of the Tech Design Club entertained 
their mothers and the wives of the Faculty at an 
informal Tea, Wednesday, January 18th.
A prize has been offered for the best design for a 
poster to advertise the play given by the White 
Friars Club. The Class of Illustration are making a 
study problem of it. This week the model dressed in 
appropriate costume will pose for the students and 
next week the students will devote their time to 
making finished drawings with the help of the 
sketches made from the model. Mr. Sparks, the in
structor, feels sure that a number of designs of 
character and quality will be submitted.
A temporary room for posing life models has been 
added to the Department of Illustration. Owing to 
the limits of time and space, its construction is very 
crude and the students taking illustration are com
pelled to use their imagination to some extent.
Professor Sparks will offer as a prize for? the best 
freehand drawing submitted by a student in the 
architectural department at this judgment Wednes
day, January 25th, a selection of twelve architec
tural postal cards.
The prizes offered by Director Hamerschlag for the 
best design submitted by the architectural students 
for a Kindergarten Coliege was awarded by the jury, 
composed of Messrs. Hornbostel, McGoodwin, Ferrand, Hamerschlag and two members of the Kinder
garten Association as follows:
First prize of $20.00 to M. G. Kingsley, and second 
prize of $5.00 to E. W. Boyer.
The first prize was awarded to Mr. Kingsley for 
distinct superiority of parti, with the request of the 
jury that he restudy and redraw his designs for some 
corrections and improvement before presenting them 
to the College Association.
Mr. Kingsley, a student in the day sophomore 
class while Mr. Boyer is a student in the night 
school.
Chicago loses only two of her foot-ball team by 
graduation.- . -

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
TH B TARTAN
Published Weekly During the School Year by 
Students of Carnegie Technical Schools, Pitts
burgh, Pennsylvania
EDITORIAL BOARD.
James K. Lamoree, 12.............Editor-in-Chief
Donald D. Mitchell, 12.............Associate Editor
David Henderson, 12.............Associate Editor
John H. Clements, 13...................Athletic Editor
Helen M. Baglin, 11, M. M. C. S., Assoc. Editor 
Florence A. Flinn, 11, M.M.C.S., Assist Editor
C. B. Kline, 13.............................Assistant Editor
H. J. McCorkle, 11.................Business Manager
C. C. Hixenbaugh, 12... .Advertising Manager
Subscription Rates
Yearly .......................................................................$2.00
Single Copy......................................................10 Cents
Student Rates
Yearly .......................................................................$1.00
Single Copy........................................................5 Cents
For Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools
MUCKER SPIRIT.
One of the most disagreeable duties of a school 
paper, or of any newspaper, and at the same time 
one of the most difficult of duties, is the task of mak
ing fair and honest criticism. When that criticism 
must be directed towards a rival school, an opponent 
in athletics, the task becomes more than ever dis
agreeable and very, very hard to handle. It is more 
as an object-lesson to Tech men than as a denuncia
tion of another schools methods that we take up 
the matter.
Carnegie Tech played the University of Pittsburgh 
a game of basketball at Duquesne Garden last Friday 
evening. The game was a good, clean exhibition of 
sport and, although fouls were frequently called the 
spirit shown by both fives was open and sportsman
like. In spite of the intense rivalry, the Pitt team 
played in a manner creditable both to themselves 
and to their Alma Mater. It is to be deplored that the 
same cannot be said for the crowd of alleged Pitt 
students who were allegedly rooting for the Pitt 
team.
Cheering for the team representing the Alma 
Mater is the most popular form of school spirit. 
Rooting has won many games and the rooter has 
come to be almost as important a factor in winning 
games as the team itself. However, there is a vast 
difference between honest cheering, honest encour
agement, and the disgraceful hooting and jeering of 
the opposing side to which we were subjected last 
Friday evening. All through the second half of the 
game, cries and cat-calls from the Pitt side of the
floor greeted every Carnegie cheer. Even several 
rounds of cheers for our oppoennts failed to show 
them the discourtesy in which they were indulging. 
The fact that Tech was the visiting team makes the 
misconduct all the more reprehensible.
We feel sure that the aggregation of so-called root
ers who were supporting the Pitt team that night 
were not representative University of Pittsburgh stu
dents.
It is up to the Pitt men who really care for their 
school to abolish such rowdyism which does not in
jure anyone but themselves and which gives them 
a bad name that they probably in no Way deserve.
HOCKEY TEAM DISBANDS.
Owing to warm weather and resultant lack of ice, 
the hockey team has been compelled to disband. 
Manager Knapp has cancelled several engagements 
with eastern and western teams owing to Techs 
failure to put a team into the field.
It is indeed unfortunate that Tech cannot have a 
hockey team this year. In the past, Techs aggrega
tion of skaters has occupied a stellar position in 
college athletics. Prospects were extremely good for 
this season. With Bright as captain and a half 
dozen veterans back in school, a championship team 
would have resulted.
When it was found that the Duquesne Garden 
would not be available, steps were taken to flood 
Tech Field. However, delay in getting an appro
priation, trouble with the city water company and 
warm weather was too great a handicap combination 
to overcome. So Tech will not be represented this 
winter upon the ice. We express the sentiment of 
the entire student body when we mourn the loss to 
our school, if only for the time being, of a popular 
and exciting form of college sport.
NO TARTAN NEXT WEEK.
Inasmuch as next week will be devoted to inspec
tion trips, no Tartan will be issued. As the entire 
student body will take a week off, the Editors of 
the Tartan decided to do likewise. The rest cure is 
the great panaceaand there is another semester 
ahead of us.
GLEE CLUB NOTICE.
The next concert will be given at the University 
Club, Saturday evening, January 28, 1911, and all 
members must be present at this concert to be con
sidered for the Carnegie Music Hall concert.
This concert at the University club is formal and 
all members must be in formal dress to take part 
in the concert. Harry A. Woellmer,
Secy and Treas.

---------------------------------------------------

tTHE TARTAN
I THE DEANS COLUMN |
,X*,It*I* * -HH'H11!11!1! I I1 < !' '! 1 -I' 111-j-i-4-4. J. J2
Pittsburgh, Pa., January 23rd, 1911.
To the Editor of the Tartan:
I have read with considerable interest the letters 
you have received from Deans McGoodwin and Leete 
and, if the student body will read with care these 
letters, I am sure they will find food for thought. 
Every individual must to a greater or less extent 
educate himself and most individuals are also re
sponsible for beneficial changes in the minds of 
others.
Since education is not confined to the schools, all 
definite social organizations have educational aims. 
The Church, State, business, purely social associa
tions, and clubs of various natures are consciously or 
unconsciously educative. They all serve to develop 
personality, conserve values, and are making some 
contribution to education.
To be really effective, education must concern it
self with th life of a community; failing to do this, 
its efforts must remain sterile and foreign to the life 
blood which is alive and growing.
The social life of a progressive people comprises 
thoughts, feelings, and actions. There is to be sure 
a certain amount of uniformity in all civilized com
munities. However, with the passing of the clan, the 
tribe, and the early forms of religion, the absolute 
predominance of the uniformity has been much 
modified. Varied groups of people, .having divers re
lations with different activities, increase necessary 
differentiations.
Some one has said that active mingling with ones 
fellows, produces an interaction which permits the 
individual to form a consciousness of a. shared ex
perience. Thus we have the individual possessing 
his own consciousness and a margin also, which he 
is able to enlarge by mixing with different groups of 
people. This association stimulates the individual 
to acquire different points of view, which can only 
be obtained from his social intercourse.
People closely related in a common activity, need 
to have different view points. If they are going to 
be successful they should not only tolerate but 
sympathize with a variety of individual capacity.
The need of social relations among students is im
perative in every large educational institution. It is 
particularly so in a school founded upon the demo
cratic principles of the Carnegie Technical Schools. 
Without a proper amount of it the Carnegie Tech
nical Schools would soon become a collection of 
aristocratic or caste unitsa condition, which is 
wholly contrary to the spirit in which the schools 
were founded.
Social activities among the students are particu
larly required for night men. For instance, night 
students of the School of Applied Industries are men 
who work hard by day and attend school at night. 
Economic conditions force them to spend three or
four nights a week in school and, as they work six 
out of every seven days and must also do some 
preparative study at home, their opportunities for 
sharing any part of the social life are limited; hence, 
they may not only become one-sided, but may also 
lose the small amount of easy manners and grace 
which every man must have in the association with 
his fellowman.
Proper social activities among our students could 
obviate this condition to a great extent and at the 
same time bring into the lives of the young men a 
deeper appreciation of one another, a greater free
dom in social intercourse, and, by affording a di
version in the routine of the workers, make of them 
better men and students wiht a broader outlook on 
life than they now have.
As a suggestion, when the new assembly hall is 
available, could not it serve the Schools best inter
est by affording suitable concerts, lectures, etc., on 
Saturday and Sunday evenings?
In this way those who are obliged to work every 
evening in either school or study, may spend the 
one or two available evenings of each week in profit
able social relaxation.
The best education comes from the increased in
telligence obtained through the eye and the ear, and 
from the simple experiences of life. The knowledge 
obtained from books and lectures only becomes wis
dom when verified by contact with nature and life. 
Hence, we have the necessity for proving the words 
of text books. Social intercourse is the only oppor
tunity for increasing ones understanding and ap
preciation of life.
Schopenhauer warns us that too much reading de
prives the mind of its elasticity, and that scholars 
are those who have read in books; but thinkers, 
geniuses, enlighteners of the world and benefactors 
of the human race, are those who have directly read 
in the book of life. C. B. Connelley.
THISTLE PRIZE OFFER.
The Editorial Board of the Thistle desires to 
announce that a single prize of ten dollars will be 
given for the best drawing, using any of the follow
ing subjects for a full page composition, to be re
produced to about five by seven inches.
1.Cover Design.
2.Frontispiece.
3.Athletics.
4.School of AppliedDesign.
5.School of AppliedIndustries.
6.School of AppliedScience.
7.Margaret Morrison Carnegie School.
Headings, cartoons, and tail pieces are also needed. 
The best of these will be used. Only Carnegie Tech 
students are eligible to compete.
Drawings for competition must be submitted by 
February 28, to C. E. Moss (Day) or B. Smith (Night) 
of the School of Applied Design.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
fgMSM3M3MSISM3l3IBM3i5MSI3i3ISiSJ33ISJ3MSSJ3MSI3I3J
iaM. M. C. S. I
SJ3M3M3M5I3MSMSiSiS!S15I3JSM3JSMJSJSJ5MSJSJ5ME!M3J3JciJ
Dean West is to give a reception to the Faculty
of the Margaret Morrison Carnegie School at her
residence, 325 Morewood avenue, on Saturday
evening, January 28th.
I* $
I 4*
| STUDENT AID BUREAU |  *4 .j, |.[ [|[ ^ ^ ^ |p - ^ ^ ^ I I I I I I I I 'I"I'
Full Time.
Chemists on coke and limestone analysis for Pitts
burgh firm; wages to start $75.00 per month.
SENIORS WIN.
A fast and snappy game, the first of the inter
class series, took place between the Seniors and 
Plebes last week. The Plebe team, although defeated, 
made a good showing. Following is the line-up: 
Seniors17. Plebes10.
Long ...............................Forward.............................. Turkle
Stewart ................... .Forward............................. Pardoe
Schmidt ..........................Center................................................................ Jack
Bihlman ..............................S.C.....................................Roberts
Craighead .......................Guard.................................. Jonap
Henderson ......................Guard............................. Wentzel
Goals from fieldLong 6, Stewart 1, Turkle 3, Par
doe 1. Foul goalsLong 2, Stewart 1, Turkle 1, 
Pardoe 1. UmpireMiss Stoner.
If I can stop one heart from breaking,
I shall not live in vain;
If I can ease one life the achin.g,
Or cool one pain,
Or help one fainting robin unto his nest again,
I shall not live in vain.
E. Dickinson.
AMONG THE COLLEGES.
Clerical work in downtown concern. Man with 
good address, plenty of energy, and at least one 
years experience required; wages to start $60.00 per 
month.
Opening for three or four graduates or advanced 
night students in Electrical Engineering, with Tele
phone Company in this city; $60.00 per month to 
start.
Stenographermill office near Pittsburgh;$60.00 
per month.
Position for young lady as Secretary to Surgeon in 
Pittsburgh taking notes on cases, general corre
spondence, etc. Salary $1,000 per year. This posi
tion will not be open for several months, but Secre
tary Field will receive applications for it at any 
time.
Opening for young man in the analytical labora
tory of a company near Pittsburgh; wages estimated 
at $60.00 per month.
Positions for six men with technical training, in a 
company making motor cars and trucks. Duties, 
looking for trouble and suggesting remedies.
Oxford University has established a lectureship 
on the history and institutions of the United States, 
to be held by American scholars.>
Harvard has recently received a gift of $100,000 
for the building of a Germanic Museum and as an 
expression of appreciation, the corporation has de
cided to call it the Adolphus Busch Hall.
The combined musical clubs of Franklin and Mar
shall College toured the coal region district of East
ern Pennsylvania during the Christmas week, at 
which time six towns were visited.
A census taken recently at Dartmouth showed that 
52 per cent, of the Sophomores, 60 per cent, of the 
Juniors, and 84 per cent, of the Seniors smoke.
ChemistIn Steel Company near Buffalo, N. Y.; 
$60.00 per month to start.
Part Time.
SolicitingVarious lines.
Teacher of Manual TrainingTuesdays and Fri
days from 4 to 9 oclock.
Work on the buildings of the Princeton Graduate 
School will be begun this spring. Its funds now 
amount to about $4,000,000.
The Dean of the college at Yale is taking a census 
of the yearly expenditures of each member of the 
Snior class.
At Michigan, fraternity property is valued at 
$500,000; at Columbia, where real estate is more 
expensive, $1,000,000.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN11
sisajajaisjsjsMsisjsisjaMajsisiajsisiaEiajaiajsiaMajiBisiaiaiaia 
| PERTINENT AND IMPERTINENT 1
EI3MaiSI33M3I2JSMSISSa(i3iSlSI3JSM5ISM3JSJ3i3l5JiJ3MajgJcij
Moustaches are the fad all over the schoolthat 
is, for those who can raise the stubble.
Exams! Exams!! Damexams!!!
Lucky is the fellow who holds not a trump and 
can truly say, I passed.
University of Pittsburgh has an option in automo
bile engineering for the Seniors in mechanical en
gineering. Our automobile course has included 
Seniors, Juniors and Sophs up to the present time, 
although but one lesson has been given.
The Anti-Saloon League of Maryland has offered 
prizes amounting to $1,000 for the best essays on 
what liquor costs the city of Baltimore and JohnsHopkins students have been offered inducements to 
enter the contest.
The Junior Prom at Yale was held on Tuesday, 
January 16th, and an estimate placed the attendance 
at 900. Scotty is wishing Carnegie could accom
modate as many at ours.
INTE RCOLLEGIATES.
Eugene B. A. Duquesne, architect of the French 
Government, has been appointed Professor of Ar
chitectural Design, at Harvard University. He was 
holder from 1897 to 1901 of the Grand Prix de Rome. 
He has designed many important buildings in the 
French Republic and has received numerous prizes 
and medals.
The Engineering School in the University of Utah 
provides for the sprinkling of the athletic field and 
of the entire campus.
Columbia has made arrangements with the Uni
versity of Paris for the exchange of professors.
Eleven men were awarded the insignia of the 
Cornell Cross Country Club.
A young poet having written a poem entitled Why
I Live, sent it to a magazine for publication. Within 
a short time he received the following answer: You 
live because you sent the poem by mail.
A Columbia University student recently completed 
an aeroplane of his own design. The machine really 
flies and is said to be one of the steadiest aeroplanes 
yet made.
Base ball battery practice started at Harvard yes
terday afternoon.
A new eligibility rule of the University of Penn
sylvania will prevent the Penn-Michigan foot ball 
games after 1911.
No steps were taken at the regular quarterly meet
ing of the trustees of Princeton University towards 
filling the Presidency left vacant by the resignation 
of Governor-elect Woodrow Wilson.
The Harvard University Catalogue this year shows 
a total enrollment of 6,279 students; a decrease of 
twenty-nine from last years figures.
James Battell, Representative in the Vermont Leg
islature from Middlebury, has announced his inten
tion to give 10,000 acres of land as a foundation for 
a school of forestry at Middlebury College.
At the suggestion or President Lowell, a Univer
sity Chorus was formed at Harvard, for which 50 
candidates applied.
Spend more time on the English language, and 
less on French and German is the advice of Presi
dent Schurman to the engineering students of Cor
nell University.
Since the class of 1911 at Chicago passed the de
cree that every Senior must raise a moustache before 
June or be ducked in the pool, a furious competition 
has commenced. The undergraduate newspaper has 
announced that to the Senior who first produces 
twenty-four bona fide hairs on each side of his 
upper lip, will be awarded a bound volume of the 
Daily Maroon as a prize.
Dr. George Meylan, director of the Columbia Gym
nasium, has collected statistics which show that 
men who do not use tobacco stand higher in schol
arship than those who do, but that 47 per cent, of 
the smokers among the students examined had won, 
places on the Varsity teams while only 37 per cent, 
of the non-smokers could secure places.
Undergraduates in the new drnalism course 
given by the University of Michigan inspected the 
entire plant of the Detroit Journal. The trip was 
designed to give students in the course an insight 
into the actual working of a newspaper.
The foot ball which was used in the last Yale-Harvard game will come into the permanent possession 
of Yale as a result of a toss between Captain Daly 
and Captain Withington, which was won by The for
mer.
Princeton has now forty-two alumni associations 
scattered throughout the country, five of which were 
organized during the past year.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
A CLOSER RELATION BETWEEN THE PRO
DUCER AND THE CONSUMER.
An address given by Mr. Clause, President of the 
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Company, at the Master 
Painters Convention held at the Fort Pitt Hotel on 
January 18th, is given below. This address was so 
ably delivered that it was thought well worth print
ing in full.
Primitive man settled this matter for himself very 
early by producing what he consumed. He was both 
the producer and the consumer. He did not require 
the services of the merchant, the middleman, the 
broker, the railroad, the steamship company, the 
interstate commerce commission, or a tariff commis
sion to assist him in handling this problem, which 
for all the centuries down to the latter part of the 
last century was constantly becoming more complex. 
A little before the dawn of the Twentieth Century, 
however, a set of conditions came into existence, 
which are beginning to simplify this problem, and 
in some slight measure lead to more direct relations 
between the producer and the consumer.
We can never return to the simple original condi
tions, but we will return as far as it is practicable 
and consistent with the very complex, multitudinous 
method of production, transportation and distribu
tion, which are the product of our civilization.
When the primitive man finally began to produce 
more than he consumed, he began to trade his sur
plus for products that he did not produce, but which 
he wished to possess, and which subsequently became 
necessities to him; thus commerce was established. 
Later, when communication was established by 
caravans and sailing vessels, the merchant and 
middleman came into existence. With a further ex
tension of commerce by the introduction of steam, 
easy access was established with all parts of the 
world, and its products were carried everywhere. 
But with the extension of commerce came a large 
increase in the number of middlemen, through whose 
hands each product passed on its way from the pro
ducer to the consumer. Each middleman added his 
cost of doing business and profit to the price he paid, 
and as each succeeding one paid a higher price, be
cause of these additions, the ultimate cost to the 
consumer was often double, or perhaps treble the 
original cost of prduction. This condition no doubt 
still exists with regard to many productts brought 
from far distant lands, which we cannot produce, and 
which are, therefore, free from American competi
tion. The high intermediate expenses standing be
tween the producer and the consumer, are not, how
ever, exclusively connected with imported products. 
There have been many American products, and I 
think there are still some, where the cost of selling 
and distribution is as much as the cost of the pro
duct itself. This was true of mowers and reapers, 
and other agricultural implements prior to the or
ganization of the International Harvester Company, 
and I think is now true of many of the automobiles 
and other products where the cost of advertising and
methods of distribution are so excessively high. On 
the other hand, there are many American products 
where the cost to the consumer is very little (a 
small margin of profit above the cost of production.
In figuring the cost of an article, the consumer 
should, of course, take into account the actual cost to 
the producer, including all necessary overhead 
charges; the actual cost of transportation, and the 
actual cost of distribution; all of these are incurred 
without any profit to the producer or intermediate 
distributors. Of course, each one is entitled to his 
profit which must be added, and, therefore, the 
greater the number of intermediaries, and the great
er the additions to the original cost will be. The 
converse of this proposition is equally true, and is 
the underlying principle in the great movement 
which is leading to closer relations between the 
producer and the consumer, and is based upon the 
elimination of some of the middlemen. I say some 
because I do not believe it is practicable to eliminate 
all of them. None but the Scialists advocate the 
complete elimination of the middleman.
The methods of handling many of the products 
which you use in your business are peculiar, in that 
the distributor handles them without profit, and 
usually at a margin that does not even cover his 
expenses of doing business. There is no legitimate 
reason for this, and it should not exist. It seems to 
have been brought about by the same set of condi
tions which lead the merchant to sell sugar without 
profit. This latter product is another very striking 
example of the low intermediate cost at which the 
consumer buys a staple product. Every housewife 
buys the sugar required for the household at a mere 
fraction of a cent above the actual cost of produc
tion and distribution. It is self-evident, however, that 
the distributor must make money on his business as 
a whole, and that the products in general could not 
be handled on such margins as exist in the commodi
ties just referred to, because he would soon be forced 
out of business and into bankruptcy by such condi
tions.
Nor do I wish you to get the impression that all 
imported products are laid down with a large num
ber of intermediate profits and expenses, because 
when it becomes a question of the' survival of such 
business, the foreign manufacturers cuts out the 
middleman as far as he can, and is frequently willing 
to sell his goods at less than cost, hoping thereby to 
destroy the competing American industry, and which 
when accomplished, would allow him to restore 
prices to a former profitable basis. The foreigner is 
also peculiarily favored in the freight rates incident 
to the distribution of his products. The tonnage of 
our exports is vastly greater than the tonnage of 
our imports, with the result that the docks of our 
American ports are often piled high with freight, 
seeking vessels for its transportation to foreign 
countries. The return tonnage being light, the 
same vessels are frequently compelled to return with 
little freight. The result is that there is great com
petition for return cargo; so great is this competition

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN13
and so low have the rates at times been that mer
chandise has frequently been transported from 
Antwerp to Chicago at less than the freight from 
Pittsburgh to Chicago on the same commodity; and 
the Interstate Commerce Commission, when appealed 
to, found themselves helpless, because the freight did 
not originate within the United States, and because 
the competition was with Canadian Railway lines, 
over which they had no control.
To give you another illustration of the great re
duction in the price to the consumer as compared 
with former conditions, I will refer to plate glass. 
Forty years ago, this product was all manufactured 
abroad, and the cost to consumer about $2.50 per 
square foot, which was about two and one-half or 
three times the actual cost of production. To be 
sure, the intermediate costs of transportation and 
handling were high. Today the consumer pays 
about one-fifth of the price he then paid, with very 
small intermediate profit above the actual cost of 
production and distribution. A part of this reduction 
is due to great improvements in the cost of manu
facture, but a much larger proportion of the reduc
tion is due to the elimination of the interemediate 
expenses and profits. So long as the foreign manu
facturer had control of the American market, he was 
not concerned in the intermediate expenses or profits 
incident to its distribution. As soon as his control 
was threatened and intercepted, he frequently has 
sold his surplus product in this market at 50 per cent, 
of what he was getting for the same product in his 
home market.
Another element that has yielded great assistance 
to the problem om cheapening the cost to the con
sumer has been the enormous improvement in the 
transportation facilities. This condition is world
wide, but no where so highly perfected as in this 
country, which notwithstanding the agitation against 
the railroads, enjoys lower freight rates than any 
country in the world. This is due primarily to the 
fact that tonnage to be moved is so vastly in excess 
of that existing anywhere else, that the cost of 
transportation has been reduced to a much lower 
figure than is possible elsewhere. This reductior, 
however, has pretty nearly reached its limit, unless 
some new method of generating power is devised; 
and so far as speed is concerned, we are rapidly ap
proaching the limit, quite irrespective of the method 
employed in the development of the power.
It may sound rash to say that we are living in an 
age in which some limits are pretty nearly reached; 
nevertheless, I think that is the case with regard to 
speed. New methods of generating power may be 
devised, and locomotives, 'automobiles, etc., can be 
built with much higher speed than those now gen
erally in use, but they have no economic speed value, 
because no one wants to travel at such rates of 
speed. Science cannot relieve swift moving bodies 
from the effect of their own momentum in case of 
wreck, and this places a barrier which none but the 
foolhardy will want to ignore.
Some further improvements can be made in the
reduction of curves, grades and road-bed, but never
theless, the limit has been pretty nearly attained, 
and we cannot look for much further assistance in 
bringing the producer and consumer closer together 
from this source. The oeroplane can never be much, 
if any factor in this problem, because of its limited 
lifting and carrying capacity.
I surmise that some of you wonder how it is that 
if the producer and the consumer are being brought 
closer together and the consumer is being benefited 
thereby, that the cost of living has coincidently been 
rising to greater heights than ever before. Without 
going extensively into the problem as to the increased 
cost of living, which we all realize so keenly, and 
about which so much has been said, because it would 
be possible to only barely touch upon it tonight, I 
wish to say that but for the movement for closer re
lations between the producer and consumer, these 
prices would be still higher than they are today.
Speaking briefly upon the general advance in 
prices, however, I wish to say that it seems now gen
erally conceded that the great increase in the pro
duction of gold is the underlying principle, so far 
as the world-wide movement in prices is concerned.
Personally, I regard the next greater factor as 
the large increase in the cost of labor, and in the 
last analysis nearly all values are the result of labor. 
Very few raw products in the earth are worth more 
than a few cents per ton before they are touched 
by the hand of man. What is the raw product in one 
line of manufacture is the finished material of the industory preceding it in the line of production, and 
so on back to the cheap raw material in the earth, 
before labor is expended upon it. To be sure, the 
increase in the cost of commodities in general is 
shown to be greater than the increase in wages, but 
this is attributed largely to the expenses and profits 
interposed by the middleman, who adds not only the 
increased cost of labor, but his per cent, of profit 
and expenses on the increase, as well as upon the 
former cost. The increase in the cost of rents and 
the better facilities demanded by the public for the 
accomplishment of all the privileges and services 
contributing to their convenience and comfort are 
principally due to one or the other of the two great 
underlying causes above referred to, and which I 
think only emphasizes the necessity for closer rela
tions between the producer and the consumer. There 
are, of course, other contributing causes, such as 
the relative decrease in our agricultural population 
and the great increase in our city population; and 
many other causes.
The Socialist would cure all these ills for you in a 
moment by an industrial and commercial revolution, 
which would bring about the most direct possible re
lations between the px-oducer and the consumer; but 
this.remedy would also destroy the underlying prin
ciple upon which the human race has built up its 
civilization, which has thus far been the great incen
tive to individual effort, and would produce a dead 
level of conditions, which would be vastly worse than 
the condition sought to be remedied. But I do be---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
P. LUDEBUEHL & SON
PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVENUES EAST END
SHOES
SEE THE NEW TOE K I I) I) O
Made up in Heavy Fall and Winter Tan Button and Blucher 
SEE OUR FOUR SHOW WINDOWS FOR THE FALL STYLES
lieve that the present movement for closer relations 
will continue until it has made the full measure of 
progress that is possible, consistent with true demo
cracy, under which the individual is allowed to enjoy 
the fruits of his own legitimate efforts.
\
NEWS OF THE COLLEGES.
The two candidates for Junior class president at 
Wisconsin have announced the respective platforms 
upon which they will run for office.
An Aero Club, composed of 60 members, has been 
formed at Dartmouth.
Frenzied French is the title of the show to be 
g;ven this year by Massachusetts Institute of Tech
nology, and was written by two undergraduates.
V anderbilt University a few weeks ago presented 
The College Widow.
Cincinnati University has 1,380 students enrolled 
by the latest count.
The average of this years Freshman class at Yale 
is 19 years.
Dr. George E. Vincent, a Yale graduate and lately 
-onnected with the University of Chicago, has been 
chosen as President of the State University of Min
nesota.
The Harvard relay team will meet Princeton in 
a 390-yard race at the games of the Boston Athletic 
Association on February 11.
A commitee has been appointed which is to se
lect the American team for the Olympic games of 
1912 to be held in Stockholm, Sweden.
Of the 490 members of Congress, 297 are college 
men, or, in other words, about 60 per cent. Ap 
proximately one hundred colleges and universities 
are represented.
Although this was an off-year at Yale, it is ex
pected that the football receipts will amount to 
$70,000.
The Cosmopolitan Club of Chicago devoted one of 
its evenings to a discussion of courting. An effort 
was made to have the members from each foreign 
nation describe the methods of love-making used in 
their own country.
Ohio State University has purchased a twenty-ton. 
$7,000 locomotive crane for handling coal at the 
boiler room.
Whos Who in America for 1910-11 shows Har
vard leading among fourteen representative institu
tions of learning in the number of successful grad
uates. Yale is second, and Michigan is third.
Baseball may be dropped at Johns Hopkins be
cause of the financial condition of their athletic as
sociation.
The student senate at Case recently adopted a 
round white pin with a brown block C for the 
official Case pin.
Case is erecting a large knitting mill in Cleveland 
as an investment. The building is of reinforced 
concrete and is said to be the largest of its kind in 
the United States.
Lehigh has engaged Ralph Caldwell, pitcher for 
the University of Pennsylvania teams of 1903 and 
j.904, as baseball coach.
Citizens of Syracuse, New York, will give $100,000 
to Syracuse University for the improvement of its 
campus, which at present is in a very bad condition.
Eighty-two thousand dollars have been subscribed 
for a gymnasium at Mercersburg.
The State Universities of Arkansas, Louisiana, 
Mississippi, Texas and Tennessee have formed The 
Pentagonal Debating League.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
Jas. J. Flannery, President. J. J. Booth, Vice-President. /. G. Pew, 2d Vice-Pres. and Secy
C. B. Aylesworth, Treasurer.
s ' , ' - S '    . "
RESOURCES OVER ONE AND ONE HALF MILLION DOLLARS. DEPOSITS OVER ONE MIL
LION DOLLARS. CAPITAL AND SURPLUS OVER THREE HUNDRED AND SIXTY THOUS
AND DOLLARS. A BANK THAT IS STRONG IN ASSETS, IN MEN, IN COURTESY.
OAKLAND SAVINGS AND TRUST COMPANY
IROQUOIS BLOCK.
UNIQUE FUND FORMED AT HARVARD.
Harvard students hereafter will be able to attend 
grand opera at half price, according to an announce
ment made by the student council recently. A fund 
has been provided by one of the leading patrons of 
the Boston Opera House for the purpose of defraying 
half the expense of a ticket of not more than two 
dollars value, the other half to be paid by the stu
dent. Men who wish to take advantage of this pro
vision will have to obtain from the committee of the 
student council having the matter in charge a printed 
slip stating that the holder is a student in the uni
versity. This slip will entitle the student to obtain 
one or two of the lower priced seats for any perform
ance except the popular priced performance of Satur
day night. In order that all the students will have 
an equal opportunity of obtaining the slips, members 
of the student council committee will hold regular 
office hours in Phillips Brooks House. This commit
tee is in charge of William C. Greene, 11, and in
cludes A. Beane, 11, W. H. Pernald, 12, and R. B. 
Batchelder, IB.
THE INVENTORS GUILD.
In the early part of 1910 several men who had 
done work along the line of invention, and who, in 
developing and patenting their inventions, had come 
to realize the difficulties and disadvantages under 
which the inventor labors, instituted a movement for 
the formation of a society looking toward the better
ment of these conditions. The result of this moveJ*^ See the Tartan Manager for student rates on ? 
J the following scientific papers;
^ The Electric Railway Journal ^
4* The Electrical World S& 4*.g. The Engineering Record ^^ JL
ment was the formation and incorporation in New 
York City of the Inventors Guild, the object of which 
is briefly outlined in the following quotation from the 
Constitution of the Society:
The object,of the Guild is to advance the applica
tion of the useful arts and sciences, to further the 
interests and secure full acknowledgment and pro
tection for the rights of inventors, to foster social 
relations among those who have made notable ad
vances in the application of the useful arts and
sciences.
Some of the handicaps to which the inventor is 
subject, other than the proverbial one of never hav
ing any money, are the delays in the Patent Office 
and the ineffectiveness of its work; the expense and 
tardiness of litigation, and the possibility under 
which a rich corporation may, by delaying and pro
longing a suit, increase the expenses to a point which 
makes such suits prohibitive for a poor inventor; the 
disadvantage to which the American inventor is sub
ject in foreign patent offices as compared with the 
liberality of the United States Patent Office toward 
the foreign inventor; and many other conditions 
militating against the American inventor which 
should be remedied.
The membership of the Inventors Guild is limited 
to fifty. The officers are as follows: Ralph D. Mershon, president; Charles W. Hunt, first vice presi
dent; Charles S. Bradley, second vice president; 
Thomas Robins, secretary; Henry L. Doherty,"treas
urer.Electrical Review and Western Electrician.
*4* Bell Phone ******?
OR ESS SUIT RENTAL COMRANY
523 Pittsburg Life Building liberty Ave. and Sixth St., Pittsburg, Pa.
We have for rental Full Dress Suits, Tuxedos, Prince Alberts, White Vests, Opera Hats.

---------------------------------------------------

16THE TARTAN
| Oswald Werner & Sons Co
(T( Pittsburghs Oldest and Largest
V/ Dyeing and Cleaning Works
4r true 
1 values
true
values
New Spring Derbies ready
|| For specials occasions when you want the best try DuJ 
quesne, the coffee of quality; one cartons, 30c lb.% GEO. K. STEVENSON CO. %
| Sixth Avenue opp. Trinity Church 4!
^ Highland and Center Avenues, East End
IBJ5J5J5J5J5[5i5i5i*SIBf51SI5jSI5i5[BJ5i5BJ5I5IBi5IcyElf5J5J5J5Jc!J5JBJDI
 Bell Phone Cleaning, Dyeing, S
1212-J Schenley Repairing and Pressing ra
EHOS.
------Merchant Tailors------ 1
327 South Craig St. Pittsburg, Pa. ^
SJ3J3M3iSI3MSMSMSM31SJBM3J3M3EMM5MSI313M3M3J3M 
.j.,.t.^r.t.t.B.t.o.t.o.jyst.j.t.tr.t.,
O THE SCHENLEY FARMS *
MELLON NATIONAL BANK
514 SMITHFIELD STREET 
+09 f lFTH AVENUE
SOLICITS THE ACCOUNTS OF
STUDENTS
The Garden Spot of Pittsburgh 
The place to live for convenience, pleasure and T 
profit. 
CAPITAL
SURPLUS
f Vt Bellefield Presbyterian Church %
CAMPBELL COYLE, Ministerhyise.
9.45 A. M.Brotherhood Bible Study. 
11:00 A.M.-Morning Service.
7:00 P.M.Y. P. S. C. E.
8:00 P. M.Evening Service.
All Tech Faculty and Student Body Welcome *
The Worlds Best Hatters Make
Soft Hats and Caps for Comfort, Sport or 
Travel. Derbies, Silk and Opera Hats for 
Dress. The best only from the Worlds Best 
Hatters.
OTTO OETTING  Kfg& %
Seventh & Smithfield. Fifth & Wylie. *
