Volume IVVoluome IN brb1Number 14
4(TTkSumCHN 4OllkeL<ol(o
vnE
GuXukPOBKuOOhLTKXTKkTuBOPTk
OFTHE
coyOKTOcFFPFcoaPsLsF

---------------------------------------------------

2THE TARTAN
*> oO -
*O' *THE RITTENHOUSE I
O8
Affords Superior Facilities for o 
Serving Dinners, Balls 
and Banquets.
The Ball Room floor is cushioned 
making it perfect for dancing.
Special Inducements to Students 
of Carnegie Tech.
KUHNS
IN THE RITTENHOUSE
*
*
s s
Joseph Horne Co.,
4(TTkSumCk vOmOMOkT u4TOBoTO 
Bme COOBk kTOmO
We desire to say to young men and women 
that fashionable clothes for young people are 
the dominant features of this store.
Next to variety is that other important mat
ter. close-to-cost prices.
Our new lines of Ssuits for young men, and 
our new lines of Suits for young women show 
that perfection which can only be attained by 
faultless workmanship.
Then, all young people are interested in the 
Accompaniments of correct dress, the furnish
ings as they have come to be called. Rely 
upon us for up-to-the-moment styles.
Best way to judge a store is by a personal 
visit.
~~ ~~~ v v v v v * vv  v v    v   * V  V v v rttttttt* * * * * 4*** * * * * f * ** ******* 4
IROQUOIS BLOCj^^^
aEere all tEe TOCH SOek go.
o Cold OPayel TecE SuttoP nree wFtE all pur
cEases on $3.11 aPd over.
OpeP OvePFPgs
The Park Bank
Pittsburgh
DO YOU EXPECT TO SUCCEED?
SUREThen open an account in the 
Park Bank.
J. S. SWARTZ, Cashier.
*****?
***444  4,^.  4.4.44. '  4 4444444
f  #I td
K *
JACQUES 
DANCING ACADEMY |
COm. Cmo(C olB vOmSOk kTmOOTk 
4(TTkSumCN 4o. *
Bell Phone 9123-R Schenley. &
CLokkOk TuOkBoeN aOBlOkBoe olB f
koTumBoe k
I 4rFvate LessoPs BaFly >yc
AWWWVSSWVWVNWNVW^XIW Xm\>
c^o4O*'>&0*o*o*c^CH*o*0*0*0*a*0*0*0*a*
s s
SmoCO SmOk. t ?I Launderers, Cleaners and g 
Dyers
G 618 TrePtoP ovePueN aFlkFPsXurg.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
*6b12 4ePP ovePueN Oast LFXerty 
SotE 4EoPes.
4O4-O4*O4*O4-04-O4O+04*04*C^04*040'fr0i0*^040fr0
YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

VOL. IV(TIk sartaP
PITTSBURG, PA., WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 5, 1910Number 14
AFFAIRS ATHLETIC
Dr. Savage Takes Charge
That the affairs of the Athletic Association are in 
a fair way of being directed to their untanglement, 
was made evident the moment Dr. Savage assumed 
control. Treasurer John Charles turned over the 
accounts of the Association, and at the present time 
they are being gone over by Dr. Savage and Mr. 
Woodward to determine the financial standing. In 
all probability a summary of this report will be ready 
to appear in next weeks issue of The Tartan. The 
report will show exactly the amount of indebtedness, 
and how far the first note of $4,000 will go toward 
liquidating it. By that time, the definite amount 
that has to be raised to have base-ball and foot-ball 
this year and next will be known. It is safe to say 
now that the amount remaining after the present 
bills have been paid will not be at all sufficient to 
materially help out arranging and financing the com
ing seasons of base-ball and foot-ball. When the 
amount needed is known, an appeal will be made to 
the student body to meet the amount. In the mean
time a great deal can be done by each student sur
rendering his loan to the Athletic Asociation or ex
tending it to September, 1911, and agreeing to turn 
over the balance of his breakage fee.
Dr. Savage has requested the Board of Control 
to meet him at the Schools Friday night, December
7th, in order to go over much of the business that 
will come up in the near future. It is imperative 
that each member shall be present.
Br. kavage.
The position of Athletic Director created by the 
Directors solution of the athletic difficulty, was 
filled by the appointment of Dr. Savage. He is an 
Amhurst graduate, and served on the Board that re
vised the athletics of that place after his graduation. 
When the Berklay Institute became involved in the 
same difficulty in which we now are, he took charge 
and put it on its feet. The same thing was done 
at Columbia University, where Dr. Savage remained 
for six years after. He then founded the New York 
Normal Institute of Physical Education, and after 
building it up, left it in the charge of his associates 
and accepted the position of Athletic Director of the 
Pittsburg Athletic Association, which position he 
jointly holds with his work here. Dr. Savage is a 
modest, unassuming man, and one who thoroughly 
knows his business.
4mOk(BOlT HoTCHOm mOk(Clk.
President E. J. Hatcher of the Athletic Association 
will present his resignation from that office at the 
next meeting of the Board of Control. He states that 
his studies compell him to take this step.

---------------------------------------------------

4T H E TARTAN
HOCKEY
Four Good Games During Vacation
The students who spent their vacation in Pitts
burgh had a good chance to get their till of hockey. 
The new league opened up in grand fashion, Tech 
taking the first game from Pitt by the score of 1 toO. 
Then State came along and Tech walked over them 
to the tune of 7 to 0. In the next game Tech suffered 
her first defeat, Yale doing the deed by a score of 4 
to 1. This was the fastest game in which Tech took 
part. Yale and Princeton played a three game series 
and Princeton took the first and last games. Last 
Saturday night Pitt played State, the former winning 
by the score of 2 to 1.
In the new league race it looks considerably like 
a runaway for Tech. She has beaten both of the 
other teams in the league and stands at the head with 
a clean slate. Pitt looks good for second place, hav
ing beaten State and been beaten by Tech. In her 
game with State the score was a close one, 2 to 1, 
while Tech was able to win 7 to 0. The State team 
lacks greatly in shooting power and ability to lift the 
puck off the ice and her defence has not the experi
ence necessary to stop the hard shooting forwards of 
Tech. The league standing up date, is as follows:
W.L.Pet.
Tech..................................................... 2 '01.000
Pitt......................................................... 11.500
State..................................................... 02.000
TEe 4Ftt Caye.
Only one point was scored during the entire game, 
that one being shot by Charles in the middle of the 
second half. The defensive work of both teams was 
of a high order. The team work, however, was not so 
good, this being the first game in the season for 
both teams. Pitt drew three penalties in the first 
half and Tech two in the second. Bright and Charles 
played brilliant hockey for Tech while Lambing. 
Haggaerty and Muller starred for Pitt. A crowd of 
about 2000 saw the game. The lin-up:
TecEncb 4Ftt1.
Minnemeyer.......................G.................................................Reed
Hittner .................................P.............................. McCutcheon
Dornberger ..........................C. P..................................... Muller
Harmer ................................R............................................ Boyle
Lowe ......................................C..................................... Haggerty
Bright ....................................R. W............................. Lambing
Charles.......................  ...L. W.............................. McDaniel
SubstitutionEngstrom for Minnemeyer. Goal 
Charles. RefereeRay Robinson.
TEe ktate Caye.
With Bun Mason at center the Tech seven 
played excellent hockey and won a championship 
game from the State representatives, 7 goals to 0. 
Mason bolstered up the playing in the center of the 
ice and his presence was felt in the scoring of goals,
as he secured three while Alan Bright negotiated four. 
Five times Tech shot past Dunn in the first period, 
and in the second half slammed the puck twice 
into the cage. Tech played the article of hockey 
that wins championships. The forwards were fast 
and they passed like professionals. Bright played the 
best game he has shown in many games, and Lowe 
was all over the ice. Charles played an excellent 
defensive game. The work of Capt. Dornberger and 
Billy Hittner was of a variety that reminds one of 
the Canadians who used to play in this city. They 
are big and strong and found it comparatively easy 
to intercept the puck or the skaters on the State team.
State men handled the stick well and were ever 
aggressive, but they lacked cohesion in their playing 
and they were unable to assail the Tech cage as they 
lacked hard shooters. Jay Bien did not get much of 
a chance to shoot, as Charles played him even. Bien 
is the best shooter on the State team. At times 
Stevenson made some fine plays, but Tech never let 
up in its aggressiveness and in condition State was 
not so well prepared for the contest.
Mason shot the first goal early in the opening half. 
Bright beat Stevenson to the puck on a lift and 
skated to near the State cage, where he passed to 
Mason who shot goal. Then Hittner and Lowe went 
up the ice together and Bright shot goal. Bien 
started away with the puck, but Dornberger took it 
away from him and skated in the direction of the 
State net. He passed to Lowe and Lowe turned the
rubber over to Mason for the third goal. Lowe fol
lowed this with a sprint up the ice and Bright shot 
the fourth goal. Just before the half closed Bright 
outskated the field and Mason drove the rubber past 
Dunn like a shot.
In the second half Hittner and Lowe traveled up 
the ice and Mason shot the goal. Then Mason, 
Charles and Bright went up together and Bright shot.
TecE7. ktate1.
Minnemeyer..........................G....................Dunn, Van Kirk
Hittner .....................................P............................ Stevenson
Dornberger.........................C. P..................................... Clark
Lowe..........................................R......................................... Lloyd
Mason ........................................C......................................... Baetz
Bright .................................R. W.......................................... Bien
Charles ..............................L. W.............................. McDonald
GoalsBright 4, Mason 3. RefereeRoy Robinson. 
TimekeeperChuck Rowe, Princeton.
TEe eale Caye.
The splendid defensive work of the Yale repersentatives, coupled with so rapid goal shooting, enabled 
them to win the hockey game from Carnegie Tech. 
Yale played good hockey and it was necessary
for it to display that kind as Tech put up its usual fine
game. The article of hockey it offered against Yale

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN5
would have won nine out of ten college games. The 
Yale team played better and showed more champion
ship ability than it did on its trip to this city last year.
As to clean-cut shooting Tech did better than its 
opponent, but French, the Elis goalkeeper, was ever 
alert, and made some clever and timely stops. Twice 
early in the second half he stopped low, hard drives 
from Alan Bright with his left foot, making a sweep 
with his foot and connecting with the fast-moving disc 
when it looked as though goals would surely result. 
His work in the first half cut off goals also. He had 
valuable aid from his team.
Shortly after the start of the game there was an 
off-side near the center of the ice in Tech territory. 
On the face-off Martin sent the puck into Herons 
stick and Heron drove it along the ice. It rolled 
and went into the cage forthe first goal.
Tech took the puck to the Yale cage after -Herons 
goal, but French made good stops from Charles and 
Bright. Then Heron got away from the field and 
passed to Martin for the second goal. Heron and 
Merrit shot the thii*d goal. When Dornberger took 
the rubber up the ice Dilworth secured it when the 
Tech captain was prevented from shooting and Heron, 
getting it, skated back before Dornberger could check 
him. It was comparatively easy for Heron to shoot 
the fourth goal.
Just before the half closed Bright and Lowe travel
ed through the Yale forwards and defense. Bright 
missed the shot, but Mason, who followed it up, pass
ed to Charles, who shot into the cage. That ended 
the scoring, as neither side was able to negotiate any 
goals in the second period. Line-up:
Yale4.Tech1.
French ..................................G.. .Engstrom, Minnemeyer
Johnson ................................P. .
Dilworth ..............................C. P.
Heron..........................
Martin ....................................C. .
Howe............................ . . .R. W.
Loutrel, Stevens . . .___L. W....................................Lowe
R. D. Schooley. Time of halves20 minutes.
GoalsHeron 2, Martin, Merrit, Charles. RefereeTEe 4FttKktate Caye.
The University of Pittsburgh hockey team won a
2 to 1 game from State College. The teams were 
evenly matched and they fought from the start to the 
finish.
Pitt shot one goal in each half, while State negoti
ated its in second period. After Dunn had made an 
excellent stop from Jay Bein Boyle, the Pitt captain, 
shot goal for his team. That closed the scoring for 
the half. But State tied the score in the second half. 
Bein took the puck from his own cage up the ice 
through the entire field of skaters to the Pitt cage, 
where he passed to Baetz for goal. The teams fought 
along on even terms until near the close of the half, 
when Boyle went up the ice and in a scrimmage 
passed to Lambing for the goal that won the game. 
The line-up:
4FttsXurgE2. ktateb.
Reed...........................................G........................................ Dunn
McCutcheon ............................P............................. Stevenson
Muller ..................................C. P..................................... Clarke
Boyle..........................................R........................................Baetz
Haggerty..................................C.......................................Lloyd
Lambing .............................R. W....................................... Bien
McDaniels ..........................L. W.................McDonald
GoalsBoyle, Lambing, Baetz. RefereeRoy Rob
inson. Time of halves20 minutes each.
THO mOCOlT Tm(4 Ov Oum CLOO olB 
MolBOL(l CLuSk.
Without a doubt the most successful trip of the 
Tech musical clubs was that taken during the latter 
end of our Christmas vacation to the towns of Shar
on, Mercer and Grove City. The least that can be 
said about the journey west is that it was one grand, 
howling success. The Carnegie Tech Musical 
Clubs, though in their youth, appear as old vets., 
to one who does not know the school is only about 
five years old.
If one had passed through the Union Station, 
Wednesday, December 29th, about 4 oclock P. M., 
the first thing noticed would have been a maze of 
suit-cases all stamped C. T. S., all around which were 
gathered a band of young fellows waiting quite im
patiently for th 4.15 train to Sharon, Pa. The train 
came all right but was minus the special car and 
Bizz King, the manager, held up the P. R. R. for 
thirty-two minutes getting the coveted vehicle. The 
two hours ride was not spent in scenery gazing or 
gossip, but in good, stiff practice which showed they 
were sure to make good.
6.45 P. M. found Sharons population increased by 
thirty-six men who journeyed to the Schenango 
House and took up their abode in this first class 
hotel. After a good, palatable meal business started 
up stairs in the way of chasing for bath-rooms and 
wash-rooms to make ready for the concert. After 
a good deal of fussing about, on the part of Warrillow, the Sweet, whose mother placed his running 
shoes in his suit-case instead of his pumps, all 
started in a car for the concert hall with that do or 
die spirit only found in C. T. S. The boys w^ere 
greeted with a rousing cheer from a packed house 
as they filed down the aisles to the stage entrance, 
which happened to be on the inside. The selections 
rendered here were well worthy of the applause 
won from the countrymen and responded again and 
again to copious encores. Lucky Jim, rendered 
by the Quartette, Warrillow, Johnson, Winterling 
and Rose; The Boys of the Old Brigade, by the 
Glee Club; Heart Murmurs, by the Mandolin Club, 
were the hits of the evening and throughout the 
trip. After the concert in Sharon the Clubs were en
tertained royally by the Moose Club of that town. 
After selections by the Moose Quartette (?) the 
Tech Clubs, not forgetting the eats, retired to the 
hotel for a sleepless night.
All agreed it was a sleepless night for the Land 
of Dreams was not to be found. Instead of sleep

---------------------------------------------------

6THE TARTAN
a pajama parade was in vogue and after the half 
dressed pageant passed through the pie-room, all 
gathered around the large fire place and played and 
sang to the enjoyment (?) of t}ie guests. About 4.15 
A. M. central called up and asked if the Boys would
n't please play and sing for her. The answer is ob
vious, or rather it was too obvious, for there was a 
grand rush for the booth to see who would hold 
the receiver. Here again Warrillow shone and his 
Violet enjoyed several fine selections. Somewhere 
in the wee sma hours room 38 became lost and 
Schuckman, who was bunked there, slept elsewhere, 
wherever that was. Morning came and those who 
were able to squeeze in a little sleep found chairs, 
dressers, buckets, clothes, etc., piled against the 
doors which, fortunately, opened inward. At nine 
oclock, after a fine breakfast two bob-sleds drew up 
in front of the hotel and the merry bunch bid good
bye to Sharon as they started for a four-hour ride 
in zero weather for Mercer. The monotony of the 
ride was broken by the selections of the Prickly 
Heat Quartette, Ewing, first agony, Finkle, second 
agony, Levy, first screech, and Baird, second screech, 
who sang Xmas at the Work House, and Fathers 
Floating Rib Will Soon Wash Ashore. After a co
pious flow of encores in the form of hats, instru
ments, snow, blankets and suit-eases, the ride quieted 
down. The half-way grocery store was well-patronized and the boys piled into the sleds with hands and 
pockets filled with crackers, candy and fruit of all 
descriptions and resumed their tattoo on the sled-floor 
to keep warm. Sled No. 2 stalled about five miles 
from Mercer and it was amusing to see how like 
horses some people are. After helping to pull the 
sled through snow-drifts, all climbed in and rested 
for the home-stretch.
The first load was already eating when the second 
arrived, and soon the dining-room of the Reynor 
House, which might be termed classy, was filled 
with a frigid, hungry crowd of musicians. Here, es
pecially, the boys were treated like gentlemen, meals 
were held for the delinquents, medicine sent for and 
hot lemonade was made for two or three who were 
taken ill and in fact the house fixed everything to 
their convenience. Here the boys spent their leisure 
moments in looking through the stores, looking for 
new faces and chasing through the jail wherein 
Boyle, the kidnapper of Willie Witla, was confined. 
During the afternoon both Clubs practiced and all 
arrangements made for a fine concert.
The concert here was quite a success and pleased 
a packed house who called for encores repeatedly. 
The Clubs here made such a hit that the young la
dies of the town busied themselves in gathering up 
all the posters, containing pictures, that could be 
found. Upon arriving at the 'hotel the guests 
requested entertainment and after both Clubs 
rendered worthy numbers to the satisfaction of the 
house all retired for the first nights sleep.
After a 20-minute delay on the part of Gettman, 
who forgot his trousers were at the tailors, they de
parted for the station where Orrel snapped a picture
of the monstrous load of baggage. Of course, the 
rest had to haye theirs taken, so a group was formed 
and shot. In the station a few songs were indulged 
in and after Warlow recited, The Village Lock
smith, by Blackfellow, the boys filed out just in 
time to see Crawford and Button rolling in the snow
drift which had been made to become entangled in 
their feet by Gettman, Rose and Orrel. Then came 
the train with the special caboose on and twenty 
minutes found all in "dear old Grove City as they 
call it now. The reader would be surprized to see a 
town pick up so quickly. It was dead before the 
Clubs came and it certainly was alive while they 
were there. Here two concerts were given in the 
Armory which was filled to its capacity for each 
concert.
Taking all in all, the trip was a great success 
financially and socially, and the success was largely 
due to the faultless management of Wm. King, whose 
leisure hours were spent in laying out a trip for the 
Clubs that will remain long in their memory. Messrs. 
Lunt and Scheidlemeir, along with Pres. Gump, may 
well be placed with Mr. King, for their unerring help 
will hold a place in the memory of the members 
of the Glee Club.
At the Carnegie Music Hall, on the 19th inst., 
the annual concert will be held.
m. M. Crawnord.
THO Tm(uM4H Ov kT. l(CHOLok.
The operetta presented before the holidays by the 
Dramatic Club of the Margaret Morrison School was 
a decided success. The first performance given on 
the afternoon of the seventeenth, was given for the 
other members of the day school and a few invited 
guests, and the final one on the night of the eigh
teenth. The gymnasium stage had been especially 
fitted for the occasion with extra lights and decora
tions, which set off the scenery painted by Mr. Rus
sel Hewlett, to the best advantage. The costumes 
for the piece were all made in the Costume Design 
Department of the M. M. C. S., under the direction 
of Miss Adair. The minute details connected with 
the staging of the operetta showed the care and 
painstaking efforts of those upon whom their exe
cution devolved. The entire affair was a credit to 
all having any part in its preparation.
Miss iStoner did well with the lines of the play 
in having them so closely conform to the phraseo
logy of the times. The music of her songs was con
sistently good and at times catchey, especially Snip, 
snip, snip, and Tick, a tack tay. The limits of 
the stage made any elaborate dancing out of the 
question, but what was presented was well devised 
and executed. The introduction of the Scotch piper 
to furnish the music for the Scotch dance was quite 
a novelty and one that was appreciated by the au
dience. Altogether, the girls of the Dramatic Club 
of the Margaret Morrison are to be congratulated' 
on being able to do such creditable work, and in 
having a Miss Stoner to do such clever lines and 
songs for them.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN7
CHolCOk (l vOOTSoLL muLOk.
In view of the keen interest displayed in the chang
ing of the football regulations we print the following 
extracts from college papers:
vroy tEe Harvard CrFysoP.
It is for football coaches and players to determine 
the means by which the danger of injuries may be 
minimized. Most critics assert that the serious in
juries occur in mass plays. If this is-true the obvious 
remedy is to introduce more open play by removing 
the restrictions which now make the forward pass 
such an uncertain and desperate expedient. The last 
game on Soldiers field showed how seldom this play 
will be used as long as it is hedged about by limita
tions which make it a mere last resource. Such a 
change would also satisfy those who want a more 
spectacular contest than the present rules encourage.
vroy tEe BaFly 4rFPcetoPFaP.
But how to change them: there is the problem 
which is by no means an easy one. Care must be 
exercised not to let the play degenerate into a mere 
kicking contest; such would be the result of making 
the required distance 15 instead of 10 yards, unless 
some of the restrictions imposed on the forward pass 
and the onside kick are removed. Shifting the play 
five yards outside of center when the ball is between 
the 25-yard lines will mean merely the shifting of the 
line to meet it. There are many advantages in plac
ing three or even the four backfield men in a line 
parallel to the line of scrimmage, as was proven by 
this years Freshman team; it seems a good idea, of
fering a variety of play at once bewildering and ef
fective.
vroy tEe CorPell BaFly kuP.
As.the result of the 1909 season as a whole one fact 
appears, that the game should be changed with a view 
to eliminating the mass play, in a word to open 
the game. The cry is not new. It came with tremen
dous force as a result of the season of 1905 and bore 
fruit in the adoption of the forward pass. But the ex
pected results did not materialize. For a season the 
so-called new game appeared to be a success, but 
before the second season was well under way, it was 
seen that the trend of play w,as to return to the old 
formation, to old fashioned football, and 1909 wit
nessed an almost complete return to the former 
methods with the exception of the use of the on
side kick.
vroy tEe LeEFgE SrowP aPd aEFte.
The removal of all penalties from the forward pass 
when incompleted.
Between the two 25-yard lines, when the ball is 
carried across the line of scrimmage, it shall cross 
that line at least five yards to right or left of center.
In all rushes, that is, when the ball is carried across 
the line of scrimmage, the halfbacks and fulback shall 
be on a line parallel to line of scrimmage and at least 
five yards back.
When a player is ordered off field because of rough 
play his team shall be compelled to do without his or 
a substitutes services the balance of that half.
The field judge to be a physician, authorized to
send a player to the sidelines when his condition 
warrants it.
% Distinctive markings on players jerseys or jackets. 
Ok4OmolTO kOC(OTe TO SO vOmMOB.
A class will be formed shortly for the purpose of 
studying the new language, Esperanto. Dr. H. Schaf
fer, who is proficient in the use of it, will be in charge.
lOa Ovv(COmk vOm o44L(OB BOk(Cl.
The members of the School of Applied Design held 
a meeting Thursday afternoon and elected the follow
ing men to office: President, Allison; Vice President, 
Silkinson; Secretary, Mitchell; Treasurer, James; 
Tartan Representative, Jones.
CmovTkMOlk CLuS.
Hold kuccessnul MeetFPg.
Thursday evening, December 16th, the Craftsmen's 
Club held a well attended meeting in the Club rooms 
of the A. & J. Building. All officers were present 
and the meeting proceeded to dispose of what busi
ness had accumulated. On Jamison's motion, the 
membership of the Club was thrown open, giving 
any journeymen of Sections B, C, and D an oppor
tunity to become a member of this active and in
structive club. It is understood that during the time 
the club is open for membership, there will be no 
initiation fee charged, which should be an additional 
inducement to those not members to enrole them
selves. The sole object of the club is to improve 
the social conditions of the Night Trade Schools. 
All journeymen who were members last year are 
especially invited to renew their membership.
The next meeting of the club will be held on the 
evening of January 6th. All members, including the 
honorary and proposed, are requested to be present 
as the election of officers for the coming year will 
be held. All of the proposed members will be taken 
into the club and will have a vote in the meeting,. 
Dean Connelley is expected to give a talk and ar
rangements for some of the coming trips of the 
club will be announced.
lotFce to CrantsyePs CluX.
All members of the Craftmens Club who have not 
paid their dues will kindly do so at once, so that the 
executive committee can audit the books.
kectFoP B.
President Noel, of Section D, has appointed Frank 
Jamison a member of the Club House committee.
lo aoPder.
Eve: Where shall we go this summer?
Adam: Why not stay here? Isnt Eden goqd 
encugh?
Eve: Now, Adam, you know well enough that the 
mosquitoes here are something frightful.The Co
lumbia Jester.

---------------------------------------------------

8THE TARTAN
THE TARTAN
4uXlFsEed aeekly BurFPg tEe kcEool eear Xy ktu
dePts on CarPegFe TecEPFcal kcEoolsN 4FttsXurgN 4a.
Entered at the Pittsburgh post office as second class matter
Lowell W. Nicols, 11Editor-in-Chief.
Donald D Mitchell Athletic Editor.
Eugene B. TaggartAssociate Editor 
Josephine Mandeville, 10, M. M. C. S.As
sociate Editor.
Edith Scott Glenn, 10, M. M. C. S.Assistant.
H. J. McCorkle, 11Business Manager.
kuXscrFptFoP mates
Yearly ................................................................. $2.00
Single Copy ......................................................10 Cents
ktudePt maFtes
Yearly ........................................ .................... $1.00
Single Copy........................................................ 5 Cents
For .Advertising Rates, address the Business Manager, care 
Carnegie Technical Schools.
The Tartan will print any communications of 
value relative to the affairs of Tech. All such must 
be signed by the writer as a sign of good faith. The 
name will be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
will not be responsible for any opinions that may 
appear other than those of its staff.
EDITORIAL
HOa oTHLOT(Ck omO 4mOCmOkk(lC.
The athletic situation has not had time enough 
under the new director to clear in a very marked 
manner. As stated elsewhere, Dr. Savage and Mr. 
Wcodward are at the present time going over the 
accounts of the Association, and will make a report 
advising the student body of conditions, and what 
ought to be done to remedy the situation. The 
Tartan hopes to have at least a summary of that 
report to make public in the next issue. It is cer
tain that there is not enough money to run athletics 
for the next year, but the exact amount will not be 
known until the report is made. In the mean time 
the students may know that money will have to be 
raised if there is to be any base-ball or foot-ball 
the next year or so.
In commenting on the situation, Dr. Savage said, 
Why there is nothing unusual in the conditions 
here. Every college and institution goes through 
the same thing sooner or later, and you have begun 
it sooner than is the rule, that is all. Your growth 
in athletics has been too rapid for your development. 
You are a brand new school seeking to do the things 
that the older ones can do on account of having 
large alumni. There is no cause for worrying, as ev
erything is bound to come out all right.
B(OB.
M(CHOLO MomZOCCO 
OP BeceyXer TEFrtFetEN brCr 
o ktudePt on tEe 
CarPegFe TecEPFcal kcEools.
The Tartan desires to express its sincere sym
pathy to Miss Louise Miller, of the School of Applied 
Design, on the recent death of her mother.
4LOSO SolQuOT kuCCOkkvuL.
The Class of 1913, embracing the Plebes of Ap
plied Science and Design, held their first banquet 
at the Hotel Henry on December tenth. The ar
rangements had been under way for some time by 
the committee consisting of H. A. Woellmer, Chair
man; H. P. Smith, H. Raymond Mandeville, Orcar 
Rayburn and Richard D. Weldon. The usual pre
banquet excitement prevailed for a week or so in 
advance, and made the affair all the more enjoyable.
A half hour before the time of the banquet there 
was hardly a Plebe in sight, but as the moment ap
proached when the gathering was to seat itself at 
the festive board, more of the participants gathered 
in the halls of the Henry. Before being seated at 
the tables, a photograph of the assemblage was 
taken. After a most sumptious array of tempting 
viands had been served to the hungry mob, the jems 
of the evening in the way of bits of oratory, frag
ments of humor and pathos, sparkling and scintil
lating with clever wit and brilliant repartee were 
then dispensed with a glibness that baffles descrip
tion. Dean Leete, of the ,School of Applied Science, 
officiated in the capacity of toastmaster and referee 
of doubtful jokes. Dr. James in responding to his 
topic, indulged in many delightful digressions and 
gave in a very complete manner just what consti
tuted the Analysis of a Plehe. Several of the 
Faculty were unable to be present, which shortened 
the program of speeches somewhat. Dean Connelley, of the School for Apprentices and Journeymen, 
accomplished the difficult task of defining what did 
and what did not constitute Tech Spirit. In intro
ducing this speaker, the toastmaster called upon the 
Faculty members present to give their college yells, 
as evidence of the fact that college spirit remained 
in the graduate always. Mr. Bergey in applying the 
prismatoid formula to a chicken croquette did sev
eral feats of explanation, heretofore unknown to 
mathematics. During the progress of the affair, the 
president of the Senior class and the Editor-in-Chief 
of The Tartan responded to calls for a few kind 
words. C. M. Crawford, president of the class, spoke 
on the Class of 1913, and outlined the work ahead 
of them as a factor in the development of Carnegie 
Tech.
In order that the affair might become too sci
entific, Mr. Lee, of the School of Applied Design,

---------------------------------------------------

THETARTAN9
reminded the assemblage that the architect had just 
as important a place in the work of this age as the 
man of science, and a great deal more in days gone 
by. Mr. Tanger Split Infinitives in an entirely 
justifiable way, and then came Prof. Keller. He 
began by saying, And last of all came Satan, and 
before finishing explained the mutually beneficial 
joke syndicate tbkt exists among members of the 
Faculty doing lecture work.
This most successful evening concluded with the 
singing of the School songs intersperced with cheers 
in a lively fashion. Altogether it was one of the 
most elaborate banquets that was ever given by a 
class.
CLOO CLuS COlCOmT ommolCOMOlTk.
In an endeavor to give advantage to those stu
dents who have contributed to the Student Organi
zations Fund, the management of the Glee and 
Mandolin Clubs has made the following reduction in 
prices for seats for the concert at Carnegie Music 
Hall on Wednesday evening, January 19th:
Upon presentation of their Athletic Association 
cards by the men students and upon presentation of 
their matriculation cards by the women students 
including Margaret Morrison students) the following 
reduction will be made:
$1.50 seats may be had at
$1.00 seats may be had at
$ .75 seats may be had at
$ .50 seats may be had at
1.00.
.75.
.50.
.25.
Two seats will be sold each student at the above 
rates.
The subscription tickets now being sold about the 
Schools are worth their face value in cash, in ex
change for reserved seats.
There will be a sale of reserved seats at the store 
room, A. & J. building, starting Wednesday morning, 
January 12th, at 9 A. M., and lasting until noon Sat
urday, January 15th.
The downtown sale will start at Hamilton's Music 
Store on Wood Street on Monday morning, January 
17th, at 9 A. M., and will last until the concert.
Subscription tickets may be exchanged for re
served seats at either place.
The student tickets will be sold both at the Store 
Room and at Hamiltons, but will not be sold at Car
negie Music Hall on the night of the concert.
I PERTINENT |
I AND !
*IMPERTINENT
Sheldon McCloy, formerly of the Night School, 
and one of the chorus girls of the White friars, 
is now with The Jolly Bachelor's Company.
Red Kirk is working at Hauser Lake, Montana, 
in an hydro-electric plant.
First AlumnusDo you believe that there will 
come a time when all the water of Niagara will be 
harnessed for mans use?
Second AlumnusYes, and the economical Yan
kee will even make use of the mists.
FirstHow so?
SecondWhy, even now that little steamer which 
runs up to the foot of the falls is Maid of the Mist.
Hunch Hartman is employed by the Ambridge 
Borough Light Co. as special expert on D. C. work.
F. E. Foster, now on the Isthmus of Panama, has
written that he will likely visit Pittsburg for a week 
during February.
A short time before Christmas the remnant of the 
09 Electricals left in Pittsburg, held a gab-fest at 
the apartments of Messrs. Sprengle and Patterson 
in Wilkinsburg. A good time was enjoyed by all.
Prof. Esquerre has made new resolutions regard
ing the time to get up in the morning when riding 
in Pullman cars.
o kuXway meyark.
Pat and Mike were seeing the sights of New York. 
After taking in several wonders they found them
selves in front of the subway. They stood regarding 
the huge tunnel with amazement when suddenly a 
train shot by and whizzed into the tunnel. Pat, 
whispered Mike, its wanderful, wanderful, isnt it? 
Yis, replied Pat; but twud be more wanderful if 
the domm train ud miss the hole.Case Tech.
KKKKKKKKKH(CH LOaKKKKKKKKKK
Vack aPd tEe Caye]
Have you seeP Ft? 3 SuttoPsN TaP aPd 
Slack
STOEBENERS
6227 Penn CACT Afo6222 Frankstown END
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

10THE TARTAN
THO SOkT eOom Ov oLL 
THoTk aHoT brb1 (k TO SO.
kTomT (T m(CHT Se O4Ol(lC o Solh oCCOulT HOmO 
Co4(ToL $211N111.11. kum4Luk $bI1N111.11
OohLolB ko<(lCk olB TmukT COM4ole
(mOQuO(k SLOCh.
M. M. C. S.
4 ********
? V
* f*
Naturally every one enjoyed the vacation just 
ended and, of course, -we are not exactly delighted 
to begin lessons again. Not only study, but exami
nations stare us in the face! So be brave, girls, and 
while examinations bind us to duty, think of these 
past two weeks when mental struggles were un
known.
It is with pride that the Dramatic Club can say 
that The Triumph of St. Nicholas was a great suc
cess. Upon looking back, the cast says they had as 
much fun as work at the rehearsals, but are glad 
the strain is over. The Friday afternoon perform
ance was given for the school, and complimentary 
tickets were given to the friends of the Faculty and 
Dramatic Club. Saturday night, enough money was 
taken in to pay all expenses and present some to 
charity.
The joys of childhood are sweet but fleeting;
The cares of womanhood are fast pursuing;'
But God, in His wise love and clemency,
To compensate, has given memory.
Jane OMara, 10.
lOT(CO.
"The students, day and night, are notified that 
after January 1st, 1910, Dr. W. B. Orbin, the Schools 
physician, will have office hours at the Schools daily 
from 12 oclock until 1.45 and on Monday, Wednes
day and Friday evenings from 7 to 7.30. Dr. Orbin 
will render free service to the students in the school 
office. His private office is located in the Forbes 
Building, Forbes and Atwood Streets, in which his 
office hours will be until 10 A. M., from 2 to 3 P. M., 
and frpm 7.30 to 8.30 P. M.Sunday until 11 A. M. 
Students treated at the private office or at their 
homes or boarding houses will do so at their own 
expense; Dr. Obin, however, agrees to make a special 
rate to any student needing his services beyond that 
given in his office at the School Building proper.
o. o. HayerscElag.
THO TOCH CHOkT.
The schedule of the Massachusetts Tech Glee Club 
calls for a concert in Pittsburgh.
The light was out and Wasson lay back in the 
depths of an easy chair looking* into the fire. He 
was thinking of his recent success suhing in a 
famous play; for with consumate nerve he had ap
plied for the place under the name of a local actor 
and having landed the job, made good from the first.
"Oh, if Ethel could have only seen me that last 
night, he thought sleepily. Guess Ill write and tell 
her about it.
A dozen other, thoughts wandered through his 
sleepy imagination, then suddenly, the tale of the 
mysterious Tech Ghost flashed across his mind.
o voMOuk lOa eOmh HoTTOm MohOk
Fashionable Caps, Soft Hats, Derbies and Silk and Opera 
Hats of the best American and European brands.
Caps at 50c, $1 and $1.50. Soft Hats and Derbies $2.00 
to $6.00. Silk and Opera Hats $5 to
tto 0etting
k vFntE aPd aylFe kevePtE aPd kyFtEnFeO
vvvvvxmm%mv\%v\\\\vvvvv\v\vvv\\v\\mv\v\\\vv\\v\vvvv\\3^m\\Nvvv\vv\ TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN
Of late it has been rumored among the students, 
that a vacant part of the basement underneath the 
School of Applied Science is haunted. The spirit is 
that of an Indian chief, tall and menacing, wrapped 
in a blanket which appears closely clinging to his 
ghostly frame. The haughty features, with the ma
lignant gleams from a pair of similar eyes, attest 
his hatred of the white man.
Such was the description of the restless spirit 
elicited between gasps from a night student, after 
repeated applications of N H4 O H, and much rub
bing of hands and feet to stimulate the heart action.
The student was exploring the dismal place, no 
doubt with the object of finding a cosy nook in which 
to stow away a lower classman, when he came face 
to face with the frightful apparition. A single 
glance at the hideous countenance was too much for 
his delicate nervous system and he collapsed on the 
spot.
A few minutes later his classmates found him hud
dled in a heap where he had fallen and quickly ap
plied the first aid procedure as related above. From 
his uncertain replies to their anxious questioning, 
a description of the ghostly visitant was obtained.
It is whispered among the janitors that a night 
watchman had heard strange guttural voices in the 
lower part of the Applied Science building, but was 
never able to find any trace of any interloper. It 
thus seems a settled matter that Carnegie Tech had 
a ghost along with its other modern equipment.
After all it isnt any joking matter, either; in fact, 
it was so serious before being investigated that the 
Mechanical Engineers stole through the lower cor
ridors on their way to Dr. Hokansons testing labratory with their caps pulled tightly over their ears, 
peering over one shoulder than the other, as if ex
pecting a fierce, bloodthirsty redskin, with awful 
designs on their hair, to rise from the cement at any 
instant. So Wassons thoughts rambled on and his 
eyelids grew heavier and heavier. Suddenly a wild 
scheme flashed through his mind. He would go 
down in that dark dismal hole and spend a night 
ALONE! All alone, just to show his utter contempt 
for things ghostly. For pshaw, it was all an idle 
tale, and that night student had been looking too 
long on the red, red fluid. Then he wondered cas
ually if there had been any reptiles along with the 
Indian chief in the students befuddled imagination. 
Probably the night watchman was hearing things 
also.
It was setled. He would stay in the dungeon from 
dark until daylight.
The news spread with remarkable rapidity and 
within two hours every student in the Department 
cf Applied Science was acquainted with the details. 
Knots of wild-eyed Freshmen stood about discussing 
the daring project. When Wassons jaunty figure 
appeared around the corner on his way from a class, 
they gazed at him just as a group of French boys 
might have admired the Great Little General.
It seemed to Wasson as if the hours passed like 
minutes with night and imprisonment coming on
(n you waPt to Xe well drest let us Xe your 
toggers
kOC(OTe SmolB kuFTk & O<OmCOoTk 
$21.  $22.I1  $2I.  $28.  I31.
ktetsoPN aPd CronutKhPapp Hats$3. aPd $4.
McILWAINES
434 aOOB kTmOOT 
I1r MomhOT kTmOOT 
I42 L(SOmTe o<OluO
kwell HaXerdasEery K Overy Bay 4rFces
ii iJ  C. i', C, 
% 
n  ais >;
1 Belleiield Presbyterian Church %
* ** vFntE aPd SellenFeld ovePues 4*4 4** CoM4SOLL COeLON B.B.N MFPFster **-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------* -------------------f
* tkuPday kervFces:
^ 9:45 A.M.The Brotherhood Bible Study ^
4* * * *
 11:00 A.M.Morning Worship
i 8:00 P.M.Evening Service
The faculty and student body of the Carnegie *3. 
's1 Technical Schools are always welcome. 4*' 
CAMPUS NOTES
and Records of College Expense 
can be kept with ease in a
McCLOYS
SCHOOL <vno COLLEGE 
EXPENSE BOOK
Enough (taxis to last throughout a 
jo iv years' college course 
Green Velum de I,uxe Binding 
leaf S% x 11
$1 par copy $1.25 post-paid everywhere.
McCLOYS 
Headquarters for School Supplies. 
642-4-6 L'BERTY AVE.

3Dc "STo'u. ICns-w
that we print more books than any firm
in the East End ?.......................................TDo "2"o\x :ECn.o-w
that our Programs, Topic Cards and Leaf
lets elicit the admiration oflovers oTFine
Printing?......................................................
IDo KziOw
that we are prompt, and that an order 
for a dollar receives as much care and at
tention as one for a hundred dollars? . 
If von are fastidious, if you require prompt and efficient service, come to .
6117=6119 Kirkwood Street
Mr. H. J. McCorkle, Mgr , Tartan, is 
our renresentative at 'Tech.- 
Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland
8
&m
s*s Bell Phones86 and 9216 Hiland 
8 8
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

12THE TARTAN
$ ZO=_ LtTBOSTVOHL de kOu |
g PENN AND FRANKSTOWN AVE., E. E. g
$ The New Creation for Men g
% "TAN VIKING CALF Button and Blucher gI $4.00 and $5.00 the pair 
o\o\o\o\o\osovovo%%o%o;%ososo%o%o%o%0%o%o%ovo%o\o\5^%o^o%o%o\ \o%o*o:\oso*o\ov:>
with awful speed. Already he was beginning to re
gret his rash action, but his fellow classmen were 
joking him unmercifully so that nothing remained 
but to carry the thing through with a bold hand.
Better take a pot of glue along to fasten your hair 
on again after old Scorch Their Toes puts one over 
on you, suggested one. Put a few thumbtacks in.
That will hold it on, offered a facetious Sophomore 
miner, who inhabited the same house with the ghost 
defyer. And it was all mighty trying on the nerves.
At last, all was in readiness for the lonely vigil. 
Several blankets were brought by zealous classmates 
so that the watcher might not suffer from the cold.
At precisely 6 P. M. Wasson with four other Civils 
entered the dungeon. Thirty seconds later four Civils 
trembling with an uncanny feeling came out and 
bolted the door, leaving Wasson with a oil lamp to 
quiet his fears. He rolled up snugly in the warm 
woolen blankets and settled down for a good nights 
rest. After all, it wasnt a half-bad place to stay. 
Huh, he soliloquized in incisive sentences, guess 
Ill rent this place from the Schools and sleep here 
every night. Well, I cant sleep with that lamp 
flickering so. A single blast from his lungs 
extinguished the flame, leaving him in total dark
ness.
I hope that heathen shows up. Mighty lonesome 
in here without company.
So his thoughts ran on seemingly to drift away 
into strange and fanciful vagaries until he slept.
It must have been three hours later when he 
sprang up fully awake, with every faculty on the 
alert. Surely he had heard stealthy footsteps. He 
looked wildly about but nothing but the same inky 
darkness met his gaze. On listening for a repitition 
of the sound all was but silence. Somewhere a little 
mouse began to nibble at a board and it seemed as 
if the whole building was being torn down over his 
very head. The mouse apparently satisfied, ceased 
its labors and the silence fell like a blow on the 
mans senses. But there it was again! Plainly he 
could hear the tread of mocasined feet approaching 
slowly and stealthily. Icy chills chased each other 
merrily up and down his spinal marrow and his blood 
seemed to curde in the veins. Nearer and nearer, 
now halting, now advancing, came the footsteps and 
it filled the man with a wild desire to run. Where 
to did not matter, only to RUN, run like the very 
wind until he was safely out Qf danger. Then a 
strange thing happened. The foot-falls ceased, and 
the lone watcher gazed in the direction whence the
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
sound had come, momentarily expecting a fearful 
hand to reach out of the darkness and grip him by 
the hair. Even as he looked the darkness seemed 
to fade and a few paces distant, in full war-paint, 
was the Indian chief. Tall and straight as an arrow 
with a blanket drawn closely about his figure, he 
stood stern and forbidding. At length he spoke, in 
strange guttural tones, and the words cut into the 
listeners senses like hardened steel.
Pale face, the red man has his revenge at last. 
Why does the white man imprison the spirit of Akogoutz with walls of stone? Surely he knows that 
the Great Spirit has condemned the spirit of Akogoutz to tarry over the spot where he slew a brother 
in anger. White man, you must die; not as a cap
tive squaw but as a mighty chief.
Here the redskin uttered a gurgling sound and 
instantly a dozen warriors, each as tall and hideous 
as the chief, sprang before the startled gaze of the 
prisoner. In a trice he was bound hand and foot 
with tough thongs and tied to a stake, while the 
blood-thirsty savages with fiendish glee piled brush 
around his limbs. A tomahawk whizzed through the 
air and sank deep in the post close to the prisoners 
head. But his lip curled disdainfully at such cruel 
torture. Huh! grunted the Chief with approval.
Then the redskins joined in a frantic dance around 
Wasson. Faster and faster they spun with wierd 
bodily contortions and fiendish, blood-curdling yells 
until at the height of their frenzy the Chief sprang 
at he prisoner and with uplifted hunting knife seized 
him by the hair. Wasson leaped into the. air break
ing the thongs which bound him, and shot into the 
darkness with a thousand screeching demons in full 
pursuit. With mighty bounds the ghost defyer cut 
through the air until bang! he struck the cold clam
my wall and fell back fainting on the floor. Sud
denly a door opened somewhere and a stream of 
light poured into the darkness. Hey here, called 
a voice strangely familiar, what's all this noise 
about? That yell must have wakened the shade of 
Caesar. Why man, what are you doing under that 
rug?
Slowly the sturdy figure arose.
Well, by cats, it said in a caustic tone, no more 
plum pudding for muh.
Then the truth of the situation dawned upon the 
tall one in the doorway and he was instantly doubled 
up in spasms of laughter. I must tell this to the fel
lers.
YOURE FROM TECH.
$

---------------------------------------------------

The TPaTPr13
HOa kHoChLOTOlk MOTOm kLO(CH aok 
O4OmoTOB.
The motor sleigh which Lieut. Shackleton used on 
his recent and almost successful dash to the South 
Pole is drawing considerable attention in England be
cause of the excellent condition in which it came 
through the ordeal and the method by which it was 
operated. In all its vital parts the machine is as 
good as new, and there never was a breakage. Even 
the tires used are in marvelously good condition.
So intense was the ccld that the lubricating oil, 
although of special quality, froze up at once in the 
tank and pipes. A can of oil had to be slung close 
to the engine to keep it warm, and this thawed oil 
was used from time to time as required. A small 
quantity had to be poured into the base chamber 
every five minutes. When it was desirable to start 
the engine, a small tray, fixed around the carburetor, 
was filled with gasoline. This was ignited and served 
to warm up the carburetor, so enabling the gasoline 
to become vaporized for consumption in the engine. 
Despite the drawbacks of a temperature of 30 deg. 
below zero, the engine worked to great satisfaction. 
Popular Mechanics.
vOmM(C oC(B FOR BeO(lC.
Formic acid, which has become a formidable com
petitor to acetic acid in the dyeing trade of Germany, 
is found in a natural state in ants, caterpillars, 
leaves of fir and pine trees, and in the common 
nettle. It also forms itself in a distillation of sugar, 
starch, and tartaric acid. It is extracted commer
cially by heating crystallized oxalic acid with gly
cerin, from which it is withdrawn by means of dis
tillation.
Although chemically pure formic acid is used in 
small quantities for medical purposes, and to some 
extent in the manufacture of fruit essences, its chief 
commercial application is in the dyeing and tanning 
trades, in which its corrosive effect is of great value. 
For dyeing purposes it is now substituted where 
formerly 30 per cent acetic acid was used. It gives 
to mercerized cotton the rustling effect of silk, and 
in silk trades it is. used advantageously to produce 
the sheen.Popular Mechanics.
a *  *  
* O * o * o ?  *
^rte'Be st Store
vOmSOk aPd oTaOOB kT.
OAKLAND
Rest Place to Buy CHRISTMAS PRESENTS 
for Men, Vi'omen and Children
Best Quality^ Largest Assortments 
?I> Lowest Prices 5
V g
5*+ HOOmOl SmO k. & CO. V
MaPunacturers on 4*
* vmoTOml(TeN CLokk olB kCHOOL 4(lk %
* PENN AVENUE AND* EIGHT STREET *
k(4O'k Vo4ol O(L
Superior to Linseed Oil for all kinds of Painting 
VoMOk S. k(4O & CO.
lortE kFdeN 4FttsXurgN 4a.
FENCING |
CLokkOk Om (lB(<(BuoL (lkTmuCT(Ol 55
For information and rates apply. o
Br. H. kcEapperN kcEool on opplFed BesFgP. jjj
C
ittiSSSOSiSSiSiSiSiSiSiSttiiOtt

liXUSttOC
hPew HFy.
OleveP BeadEeads.
Mike Murphy, the University of Pennsylvanias
famous trainer, said of a Pennsylvania football
player:
He has the self-sacrifice and the inventiveness, 
minus the deceit, of a man at a Philadelphia game 
last year. When the crowd was entering thickest at 
Franklin Field one afternoon this man shouted to 
the ticket taker from down the line.
 Its all right. Ive got the tickets. Theres twelve
of us. Count em as they go in..
Eleven men were counted. They entered the field 
and mingled at once with the crowd.
Then the ticket-taker turned to the twelfth man. 
but he had disappeared.Washington Star.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
A man reached Terre Haute late one night last 
month, and although it was far past bedtime, he 
started out to find his friend Smith. He found the 
address and pounded long and loud. Finally the 
door was opened by a sleepy individual, of whom 
the visitor inquired if this was where Mr. Smith 
stayed.
Yes, second floor front; bring him right in. 
The Rose Technic.
Heres oPotEer oP 4at.
An Irish laborer boarded a street car, and handed 
the conductor a rather dilapidated looking coin in 
payment of his fare. The conductor looked at it 
critically, and handed it back.
Thats tin, he said.
Sure, I thought it was foive, answered the Irish
man complacently, as he put the piece back in his 
pocket and produced another nickel.The Fulcrum.
When Dry Cleaning is done properly you cant 
help but be satisfied. See SHUMAN, at 3911 Forbes 
near Boquet. Give him a sample order.
YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

14THE TARTAN
kcaPdal! (Pnayous! MeP OPly!
If theres anything worries a woman
Its something she ought not to know; 
But you bet shell find out somehow 
If she gets the least kind of a show.
Now well wager 10c to a farthing 
This poem she has already read.
We know shed get at it some how
If. she had to stand on her head.
Miami Student.
4oTk mOVO(lBOm.
Patrick, lately over, was working in the yards of a 
railroad. One day he happened to be in the yard 
office when the force was out. The telephone bell 
rang excitedly for some time before Pat came to the 
conclusion that it ought to be answered. He ap
proached the instrument very cautiously and slowly 
put the transmitter to his mouth, as he had seen the 
boss do.
Hillo, there, he called.
Hello, answered some one at some distant place. 
Is this eight, six, ought, four, eight?
Aw, gwan. Phat dye think Oi am, a box-car? 
sarcastically replied Pat.Case Tech.
SOTTOm kT(Ch TO THO SOlCH.
A colored man was brought before a Police Judge 
charged with stealing chickens. He pleaded guilty 
and received sentence, when the Judge asked how 
it was he managed to lift those chickens right under 
the window of the owners house when there was a 
dog loose in the yard.
Hit wouldnt be no use, Judge, said the man, to 
try to splain dis thing to yo-all. Ef you was to try 
it you like as not would get yer hide full of shot an 
get no chickens, nuther. Ef yo want to engage in 
any rascality, Judge, yo better stick to de bench, 
whar you am familiar.Ladies Home Journal.
lOmTHaOkTOml VOoLOuk.
I love my Northwestern co-ed, but oh, you Purdue 
football team.Purdue Exponent before Saturdays 
game.
It might be well for Purdue to spend more time 
with their football team and let our co-eds alone. 
The Northwestern.
But, dear friends, how are we to have them alone 
when they come down here and cop our Freshmen. 
Second only to our football team we love North
western co-eds. Isnt it a fair division of our affec
tions?Purdue Exponent.
 OAKLAND BUTTER MARKKT >
Dealers in ^
? BUTTER, EGGS. POULTRY, CHEESE, TEA AND ?
? COFFEE ?
5 3714 FORBES STREET 5Bell Phone 1933-R Schenley
VS* x 
TEe ktaPdard on OxcellePce
M acBoPalds
CaPdFes aPd (ce Creay koda ..BaFPty LuPcE 
TaXles nor (ce CreayvaPcy SoxesSaskets 
vavorsN Otc.
218 k(XTH kT. 4(TTkSumCN 4o.
Bmoa(lC olB 
omT(kTk MoTOm(oLk fr
Kurtz, Langbein & Swartz *
616 aood kt. Tel. Grant 279. 
WXXXSSXXSXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
*Well Pressed is Well Dressed |
L(SOmTe CLOol(lC & 4mOkk(lC CO.
31b koutE CraFg ktreet
O\OV:>%OV:^ONOND\OSO*O*O\0%0V:v*O*O%0.N
'*
*R. W. MEDICK
CHO(CO HOMO BmOkkOB MOoTk olB 
4OuLTme
Both Phones 3814 vorXes ktreet
xoxoxoxoxoxoxo\oxo\o\oxoxo\oxoso\oxo
o COOB TH(lCk TO OoT *
^ at the Pure Food Stores of ^
| GEO, K, STEVENSON & CO. |
0 Sixth Avenue Higland and Center *
^ Down Town East End ^
*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*o*<>H>i*o*0*a
1 The Schenley Farms
)}) THO ComBOl k4OT Ov 4(TTkSumCH
 The place to live for convenience, pleasure and & 
))) profit.
o m
aEat (s (t?
1911Whats the height of your ambition?
1910Well, I dont know exactly but she just 
comes up to my shoulder.The Lampoon.
* 
* * 
* 
* 
* * 
* 4*
HOTEL SCHENLEY 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
CLUB DINNER BANQUETS AND 
DANCES. 
Phone 248 Schenley.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN15
QuFte True.
Mary had a little waist,
Where waists were meant to grow, 
And everywhere the fashions went,
Her waist was sure to go.Ex.
o kh(l BOoL.
In the great hall filled with courtiers and men-atarms, a slave was kneeling before the king.
As a last resort he pulled, from out his inside 
pocket, an old banana skin, and with a gesture of 
deep despair, flung the covering of the fruit at the 
foot of the throne, crying, I appeal to you.
Ah! exclaimed the haughty monarch, but the 
appeal is fruitless. Whereupon he rolled over and 
died.Princeton Tiger.
aO<O SOOl THOmO.
Inflicted Student (looking up from book)Well, 
can you beat it?
College IdiotSure I can.
Inflcited StudentThen, for goodness sakes, beat 
it. I want to study.The Columbia Jester.
VukT (T.
Teacher (to dull boy in mathematics)You should 
be ashamed of yourself. Why, at your age George 
Washington was a surveyor.
PupilYes, sir; and at your age he was President 
of the United States.Boston Transcript.
THO k(L<Om QuOkT(Ol.
BiggsI surprised two burglars in my dining room 
the other night. They were removing the silver.
DiggsAh, caught at the plate, I suppose.The 
Harvard Lampoon.
HildaBut what is the difference between a roof 
garden and any other garden
HarryWell, on a roof garden the daisies bloom 
at night.John Hopkins News-Letter.
The fiftieth anniversary of the University of Cali
fornia, which occurs in May, 1910, will be marked 
by the erection of a $100,000 alumni hall, which will 
contain a large assembly hall for the annual alumni 
reunions, and offices for college publications.
Despite the fact that the year started with a $6,000 
deficit, the Columbia Crew Association finished the 
season with a balance of $462.20.
$TecE SarXer kEop
Cor. CRAIG and FORBES STREETS
*
 $%^%o%o%o%o\o\o\asoso%oso%0%oso%osuso.%
? mOeMOmk g
? 2# . TEere are Po otEer fi
3 2 caPdFes quFte so gocd as 
"A mOeMOmk 
 #WWVVWWSWWNWVWWVWV^WVmW
&\o*o*o%oso%o%0xo*ox0xov0xaxa*a*o*o*
OkaoLB aOmlOm & kOlk CO.
4FttsXurgEs Oldest aPd Largest ByeFPg aPd G
City OfficeCleaPFPg aorks
-631 Penn Avenue*^ East End OfficeS. Hiphland Ave. & Baum St. 0
o\o\o\o\o\o\oso\o\o\o\o\o\oso\o\o\o^
1*1 Jfm A A A AAA A A -.T AAA a j.a J./*i .f. fS ^ -f. AvTWTWtvTVtvwtwTwtVvvWwTvTvtvTvtvt 
$o*S. h. OllFott Co.
PERFECT FITTING EYE
GLASSES AND 
SPECTACLES
108 Sixth St. (Bessemer Building)
O 

4! PITTSBURGH
ISffiEMSMSISMSISMSEMSMSMSfSiSMSISlSMSiSMSMSfSMSL'r!
j The Christmas Giit ^
Hallers CaPdy
[a o SFg orray on SeautFnul (yported Saskets 
katFP LFPed
j|j HaPdsoye Soxes nFlled wFtE rFcEN delFcFous 
CHOCOLoTOk 
Let us Eave your order
HALLER BAKERY
36b8 vOmSOk o<O. (m(QuO(k SLOCh {b
I never ate an old straw hat,
I never want to eat one;
But if I do, I want it straight,
And not a shredded wheat one!
Cincinnati Weekly News.
TELL OUR ADVERTISERS
**
***?*******?
*******
?**
oLOXolBOm SmOk.
HODAKS & PHOTO SUPPLIES 
108 Sixth Street, Pittsburgh, Pa*
YOURE FROM TECH.

---------------------------------------------------

16THETARTA N
SJ3MS3JSJSI3iS3JSJ3JSSJSi3JSJ3ISIS]5EJ3IEJSJ5J3J3M3JSlSJS13J3J pj gj 
H. L. BLIND & BROS. |
Florists and Decorators
vlowers nor all occasFoPs 
THO CHO(COkT vLOaOmk (l THO LomC = 
OkT okkOmTMOlT
Hast End Store:
Bell 5500 Highland 
P. & A. 1G6 East 
5424-28 CENTER AVE.
Down Town Store:
Bell 11)11 Court 
P. & A. 1X9 Main 
LIBERTY & FIFTH ST.
S|5jgi5M515M@l5J@JBJH5j5JBJp5]5l5I51ri]iB15rc1J5j'Si5J5lTa' iiifL^fipiSj!?
o.C. k4oLB(lC* SmOk.
THO kroLB(lC
TmoBO Momh
Is known throughout the 
world as a Guarantee of 
Quality.
Are the Largest Manufacturers in the World of
OFFICIAL 
EQUIPMENT
IF YOU
For all Athletic Sports and Pastimes
are interested in 
Athletic Sport you 
should have a copy of the 
Spalding Catalogue. Its a 
complete encyclopedia o f 
WHATS NEW IN SPORT 
and is sent free on request.
A. G. SPALDING & BROS.439 Wood St., Pittsburg, Pa
>4*>*0*0*0*0*0*0*O*O*O*O*O*O*O*0*0*0
> S. & S.
j. overcoats reducedI Broken lines Mens fine Overcoats to be I ended.
) $55-00 three-quarter Coats, $45.00.
> $50.00 three-quarter Coals, $40.00.
$45.00 three-quarter Coats, $35.00.
Mens $40 00 Paddock Overcoats, $30 co 
Mens fine $25 00 Kersey Overcoats, $20 
Brokaw and Stein-Bloch make.
r>04*0><
*fr *2* fr fr ** r*< fr Sr - .V J * : tfr >%c '
+
***i*****
vor
MOl
k H 
SOTTOmolB LOOh (T
HANAN & BAKER SHOE COMPANY
43IK437 aood ktreet
..4.4.4 .fr4n.fr!1 4>4i4i<|n{i4>44i>l!'i>4.iH(>l"!'4>4l4>4.4I>4><t>H
The S. Hamilton Co.
PIANOS and 
ORGANS
531 Wood St.,  PITTSBURG, PA.
Oast OPd kupply House
vOm
omT(kTk & BmouCHTkMOl
Henricis Book Store
4ePP ovePueN Pear tEe Oast OPd 4ostonnFce
>=02050-050502
0XQS<^0%Q\0!Sa%Q%G%Q%a%0XQ\Q%QXQ%Ci\Q%
MOLLOl loT(OloL Solh
Ib4 kM(THv(OLB kTmOOT 
41r ( (vTH o<OluO
kOL(C(Tk THO oCCOulTk Ov 
kTuBOlTk
Co4(ToL K 
kum4Luk & 4mOv(Tk
$4,000,000 
- $2,900,000
\O\O%OS0%OX0SOXOX0X0%0.VOVOX0XOX0XDX0
Jw->*fc0*fr0^0,fr0^0*<<,^04,0i*0fcc'**0^0^0*0,*0fr0,r0
o. a. kM(TH CO.N
vToasts
LargestN nFPestN aPd Xest equFpped nlorFst es
taXlFsEyePt FP oyerFca.
mepresePted FP all large cFtFes
hOOlol Su(LB(lC
LFXerty at kFxtE ovePueN 4FttsXurgN 4a.
O*O*O*C*0*O*0*O*0*O*0*0*0*0*O*0*O*0*TELL OUR ADVERTISERS YOU'RE FROM TECH.
