BASEBALL 
WESTMINSTER 
vs. CARNEGIE 
SATURDAY APRIL 8
EASTER RECESS 
STARTS APRIL 7 
ENDS APRIL 17
VOL. XVI. NO. 28CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PENNSYLVANIAWEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1922
GRAPHICA CLUB 
TAKES TRIP TO 
EASTERN STATES
Are Leaving; To-Day on Tour 
Through Eastern Cities to 
Inspect Printing Processes 
and Shops
PLAN TEN DAY TRIP
Twenty members of the Graphica 
Club leave this afternoon, for Spring
field, Mass., the first stop on their 
Easter inspection tour. All prepara
tions have been made for the jour
ney and a special car has been secured as far as Springfield.
From Springfield the memDers will 
SO by auto through the Berkshire 
Hills to Mittineague where the 
Strathmore Paper Mills will be in
spected. On April 7 the American 
"Writing Paper Mills and laboratories 
at Holyoke will' be visited.
The next day the tour will be ex
tended to New London where the 
Babcock Press Manufacturing Com
pany will be visited and from there 
the members of the club will go to 
New York.
The next three days will be spent 
an inspecting printing trade houses 
in'New York and Jersey City.
On Thursday and Friday, April 13 
and 14, Philadelphia will be visited 
where the Curtis Publishing plant 
will be the center of attraction. The 
trip will end Saturday with the re
turn to Pittsburgh or the men.
This is the longest and inost ex
tensive trip ever taken by the 
Graphica Club and it goes to show 
that the activity of the members is 
on the increase.
ALL NIGHT SCHOOL OFFICERS 
REQUESTED TO MEET APRIL 19 
ROOM 102, ARTS BLDG., 3 P. M.
Anyone who holds any office at 
present in the Industry, Science or 
Art night student body or has been 
a former officer who is now enrolled 
is requested to be at the meeting on 
Sunday, April 9th, in Room 102, Arts 
Building, at 3 p. m.
Yery important.
JUNIOR CLASSES 
HOLD BANQUET
Majority of 3rd Year Men 
Present to Enjoy This 
Annual Event
Tau Beta Pi Holds 
Initiation Banquet
Professor Work and Eight 
Juniors Are Initiated
Professor William R. Work, head of 
the Electrical Engineering Depart
ment in the College of Engineering, 
was initiated as an associate member 
of the Gamma of Pennsylvania Chap
ter of the Tau Beta Pi Honorary Fra
ternity, at the formal initiation cerjnonies held just before the banquet 
last Saturday evening at the Chatham 
Hotel.
Professor Work graduated from 
Wittenberg College in 1902, receiving 
the degree of A. B.. Later he took 
a graduate course at Ohio 'State for 
which he received the degree of 
M. E. in E. E. in 1905. In the fall of 
1905 he came to Cai;negie Tech, as an 
instructor in the Electripal Depart
ment and has been with Carnegie 
since. Because of his ability to in
struct and his progressiveness he has 
steadily risen until now he is at the 
liead of the Department of his pro
fession. His popularity has marked 
him as a man with tact and the abil
ity to understand and appreciate the 
viewpoint of the student. Tau Beta 
Pi is to be congratulated upon ob
taining a man of such caliber to aff
iliate himself withtheir organization.
Along with Professor Worth, eight 
Juniors were initiated into the fra
ternity, the pledging of whom was 
announced at the Science stag smoker in February. They were as fol
lows: Frank H. Allison, Eric Berglund, George A. Coburn, Joseph R. 
Doherty, Herman L. Griffin. Herbert 
J. McCormick, Earle E. Smith, George 
:N. Thompson.
At the Banquet following the ini
tiation Prof. Blaisdale of the Mechan
ical Department, acted as toastmas
ter and the speakers of the evening 
were Director Mott, Prof. Trinks, Prof. 
Higgs, Prof. Simmons, Prof. James, 
It. L. Louie, W. J. Blenko and E. G.
(Continued On Page Two.)
WRITE A SONG DURING 
VACATION
THAT is the task for each of 
US to work on.
WHAT have TJ done to make 
this BOOK one of this years 
accomplishments ?
TALK up the book and its 
need on the campus.
WHAT will be the effect on 
the future life of this college 
when they can sing past glories, 
and be inspired to greater ef
forts?
As ACTIONS count more 
than talk, let each of us take a 
very tangible commission to 
write a good TECH SONG dur
ing Easter vacation.
WE should do more than sim
ply talk about college when we 
get HOME. Let us each one of 
us give her some good conscien
tious thought and come back to 
the campus with a rousing song 
under our armeach arm if you 
wiqh!
Intrust your efforts -to an en
velope and drop it in the Post 
O'ffice in the Central Building, 
addressed to the Song Commit
tee.
YOU ANSWER THIS 
W7LL TECH HAVE A SONG 
BOOK?
Almost every Junior in the three 
colleges was there and those who 
weren't are sorry they missed it. Al
though a few were arraid they 
werent going to get there, when the 
special car on which tney were rid
ing ran off the tracks and it wasnt 
until almost ten oclock that they 
arrived at the Pines, yet every one 
felt as if it was to b one of the 
best Junior Banquets ever held.
Everything was in reaGiness for the 
Juniors when 'they arrived, and it 
wasnt very long after that until 
they were, seated at the banquet 
tables.
The Novelty Orchestra furnished 
the music' and the Entertainers add
ed a great deal in making it a suc
cessful banquet.
J. T. Ames, president of the Jun
iors In the College of Engineering, 
was the toastmaster. Mr. William 
Pfouts of the College of Industries, 
was the first speaker and anyone 
who has ever heard Bill talk knows 
that he can always entertain any 
group of men.
Prof. Charles J. Taylor or the Col
lege of Fine Arts, talked on the 
value of Juniors in a college and 
(Continued on Page Four.)
ANNUAL TARTAN 
STAFF BANQUET 
CAMPUS WEEK
Past Members of Staff Are 
Honor Guests. Noted 
Newspaper Men Guests at 
Gathering of Staff
ADD NEW ASSISTANTS
TECHNICAL JOURNAL FOR 
SALE ON CAMPUS 0-DAY
This issue contains tne third of the 
series of articles which have appear
ed this year dealing with the ques
tions facing a man upon graduation. 
Mr. W. P. Hirschberg, President of 
the Federal Engineering Co., has pre
pared this contribution. Mr. Hirsch
berg is a civil engineer, but his words 
contain much that woulft be of in
terest to students of all courses.
A very convenient condensed table 
of exponential functions has been pre
pared by the Department of Electri
cal Engineering. Tills will be found 
to be very useful in certain frequently 
occuring computations. Illustrative 
examples follow the tables.
Major J. F. Bell, of the Corps of 
Engineers, has contributed a concise 
illustrated account of. the develop
ment of transportation on the Monongehela River. Major Bell is in charge 
of the U. S. Engineers Office at Pitts
burgh and has been intimately con
nected with the construction of many 
of the locks and dams on the three 
rivers in the Pittsburgh district.
Dr. J. James, head of the Depart
ment of Chemical Engineering, has 
written a description of his work on 
some new petroleum products. Dr. 
James lias been engaged in this work 
for some time and has succeeded, on
ly recently in getting the process on 
a commercial basis. Part of the porcess consists of extracting fuel for 
internal combustion engines, from 
petroleum.
One of the most promising develop(Continued on Page Four.)
BANQUET OF INDUSTRY PLEBES 
IS COMPLETE SURPRISE
The Plebes have been showing a 
little action lately, as any one could 
see last week merely by gazing at the 
flag pole in Schenley Park. The In
dustry Plebes seem to have awaken
ed to the fact that it was: time for 
them to assert a little 25 spirit, and 
took matters in their own hands by 
holding a class banquet. They had 
been inactive for so iong that their 
banquet was a complete surprise to 
the Industry Sophs, who didn't sus
pect that they could pull such a 
coup.
The banquet was held at the Fort 
Pitt Hotel on Monday night, March 
27, and was well attended. About 
one hundred and twenty-nve were 
present, including Dean Morris, Mi*. 
Tarbell and Mr. Pfouts. Although 
the name of Bob Smun, Industry 
Soph president appeared on the pro
gram, Bob refused to honor them 
with his presence. The Sophomores 
made little attempt to stop the ban
quet, as their president was safe.
Spirit seemingly was aroused at 
the banquet, for when the Plebes re(Continued on Pago Two.)
PROF. ASHE INITIATED
INTO TAU GAMMA PHI
As the result of the try-outs held 
for the staff of the Carnegie Tartan 
during the past six weeks, the follow
ing men have qualified for positions 
as editorial assistants: Y. L. Matt
son and W. K. Sheppard, Sophomohes; R. J. Ivredel, F. D. Rossini, 
V. L. Spencer and W. Winning, Fresh-, 
men. E. C Frazier, Freshman, hasbeen added to the staff of athletic 
contributors.
Credit is due these men for the 
work they have done in qualifying 
for these positions, and for being the 
successful ones chosen from a field 
of more than twice that number of 
entrants.
Wirh the addition of these men, 
the masthead of the Carnegie Tartan 
will contain more than four dozen 
names progably a greater number 
that are to be found engaged In any 
other non-athletic activities at school.
There are several very good rea
sons why this should be so. Every 
one likes to see in print articles that 
he has written, and this is probably 
one of the most important reasons 
why the roster of the editorial staff 
contains the names that it does. 
Others look for more material re
wards, and consider the fact that the 
Carnegie Tartan is practically the 
only student activity with salaried 
position. The advantages are more 
numerous than this former.
Connection with this publication of
fers opportunities to its members of 
meeting men about the campus, wellkno-fon visitors, and other men of 
prominence who othorwise would be 
unknown to them. Then too, every 
one likes to see his name climb in 
the ranks of an organization ho or 
she may bo affiliated with, and the 
wish to see this occur is a powerful 
incentive to continue work after once 
trying out for ..the paper.
One of the most present and ma
terial rewards for the work dono dur
ing the yecy: is a banquet given by the 
staff to itself, which will be held dur
ing or near the time of Campus Week. 
Everyone whose name, appears in the 
masthead is entitled to a place at 
this board, and is privileged to join 
in the festivities. Men prominent in 
the newspaper world will be guests, 
as will also the former editors-inchief and business managers of the 
Carnegie Tartan, who return to the 
campus at this time.
With inducements such as these to 
offer, little urging need be done to 
keep the gtaff members working with 
a will towards the end that Carnegie 
Tech may be represented in the flold 
of college newspapers with a publi
cation second to none.
CARNEGIE REPRESENTED AT 
CONFERENCE HELD AT
TORONTO RECENTLY
Carnegie Institute of Technonogy 
was represented on March 24th, 25th _ 
and 2Gth at a unique conference, prob
ably the., first of its kina, where the 
editors of college comics throughout 
the United States and Canada gath
ered together in Toronto, Ontario, for 
the purpose of discussing the prob
lems of college fun books. Combin
ing business with pleasure, the gath, 
ering voted to act as a body for the 
promotion of an Intercollegiate Humor
ous Publication Association, and drew 
up a^ number of novel plans and 
schemes for bettering the comics. 
Puppets representatives, T. S. Repplin and D. F. Cassidy, say that lib
eral publicity was awarded them and 
offer as proof headlines and pictures 
in the Toronto Star. They appear to 
have had a large party and the next 
issue of Puppet ought to be a good 
one. Trelie is only one thing we 
would like to know; why did they 
pickout Canada as a convention site?
Annual Commercial Ball 
Is Planned For 'This Month
Last Tuesday, March 28, the Com
mercial Club met for the first time 
this semester in the Commercial 
Club Room. At this meeting it was 
decided that the annual Commercial 
ball would bo held in the latter part 
of April, and that all students would 
be eligible to attend. This was done 
to make the Commercial Ball a fourschool function instead of a class af
fair.
The proceeds of the dance will 
be used to fit up the Commercial 
Club Room with rugs and chairs.
E. A. LAWRENCE ADDRESSES 
C. M. E. S. LAST WEDNESDAY
INDUSTRIES GETS 
CHAPTER OF S. I. E.
Plan Organization of a New 
Club to Supplant Tech 
Mechanics Club
At a meeting of Machinery Pro
duction and Power Plant students of 
Industries held last Wednesday af
ternoon, Prof. Leeds told of the pro
gress which has been made in obtain
ing a Junior Chapter of the Society 
of Industrial Engineers, for students 
in this group hero at Carnegie. It 
is planned for this chapter to sup
plant the present Tech Mechanics 
Club. Prof. Leeds explained the de
tails of forming the new organization, 
the advantages to be obtained, and 
the purposes of the society. The 
S. I. E. lias just rocently decided to 
permit the formation of Junior Chap
ters, and it is highly possible that 
Carnegie will have the honor of or
ganizing the first chapter; although 
State College and many other engin
eering schools are applying.
It is urged that all men in theso 
departments watch dovolopomonta 
closely and become charter members 
when the organization is comploted, 
presumably lu the next fow woolcs.
NEW RULES TO 
REGULATE ALL 
C. I. T. VOTING
Student Council Place Set of 
Rules on Four School 
Elections. Select Delegate 
For Convention
ELECTION DATE SET
Y.M.C.A, Nominates Officers 
ForNext Year Cabinet Staff
In accordance with the by-laws of 
the Carnogle Tech Y. M. C. A., E.,
II. Johnson tho president, appointed 
a nominating coinmlUoe which mot 
last Friday afternoon and soloctod 
the following men as candldatoa for 
tho several offlcos in tho Student 
Cabinot. For presldont, Charlos F. 
Bowers of the Architectural Depart
ment; for vice president, I-I. O. 
Sprinkle of tho Electrical Englnooring-Department; for secretary, Paul 
K. Conrad, of tho Commercial Engi
neering Department.
In addition to the above nomlna-1 
tions, any five active menvoors of this 
branch may similarly post over their 
own signatures, other nominations 
for any or all of these offices. Such 
nominations should bo posted at 
least forty-eight hours before the 
election is held. Ballots will bo sent 
to all members of the Y by mail, 
and the election will bo held at a 
general "Y stag event to bo held 
sometime near the end of April.
The Student Council at its last 
meeting passed voting regulations 
covering elections in all four schools. 
These regulations will go into ef
fect immediately and all of the 
spring elections will be governed by 
them.
The council decided on the fol
lowing dates for the spring eleotlons. For receiving nominations 
for candidates to the 'position of 
President of tho Student Council 
April 19. Tho balloting shall be 
done on April 27. IC a second bal
lot be necessary it shall bo taken on 
April 28.
Nominations for tho various class 
officers will be made on May S to
10 inclusive. The election will be 
held on May 17. If further balloting 
be necessary it shall be done on 
May IS.
An invitation to send representa
tives to the Mid-West Student Con 
ference to be held April 20, 21, 22, 
at tho University of Kentucky, Loxingtou, Ky., was discussed. It was 
decided to send two representatives, 
a Senior and a Junior. Nation was 
selected by tho Council as tho Sen
ior representativo. Tho Junior is to 
bo named by tho Student Actl,vitios 
Board.
Tho recommendations of tho joint 
Faculty-Stiulont Council Committee 
on cribbing were favorably actod on 
by tho council.
In ordor to croato greater uni
formity in school and class oloctions, 
to assuro popular choleo of officora, 
and to promoto moro general Interest 
In oloctions, tho Voting Rogulatlona 
Commlttoo proposos tho following 
rogulatlona to bo usod in all four 
schools.
C. I. T. VOTING REGULATIONS
1. All Schools and chum oloctions 
shall bo conducted under supervision 
of tho respectivo school somites.
2. Voting shall bo on standard 
prlntod hallla so far as possible. 
Thoao standard ballots will bo print
ed by tho Studont Council and dis
tributed to tho socTotaiioa of tho 
four HOnates who will In turn issue 
to the secretary of tho class holding 
election a number' of ballot equal 
to the class enrollment. Ballot will 
bo Issued before tho oloctlon and 
unused ballot must bo roturnod to 
the senate secretary.
3. Nomination of class officora 
shall talco place in a duly called 
dlass mooting. Divisional officora 
sliiall bo nominated In divisional as
semblies. One woolc hall olapo be
tween nomination and oloctlon dur(Contlnuod on Pago Four.)
Moessner Chosen President 
Of Science Plebe Class
Insurance School Statistics
The Carnegie Mechanic Engineer
ing Society was addressed last Wed
nesday evening by Mr. E. A. Law
rence, a prominent Pittsburgh au
thority on patents.
Mr. Lawrence pointed out the dif
ferences between patents, copyrights 
and trade marks and Drielly outlined 
the field and rights under each.
The principal differences in thQ 
patent laws of the Untied States 
and of European countries were 
pointed out. In America the man 
who first conceives an idea receives 
the patent, while in England the 
man who first reaches the Patent Of
fice rcceivesi the patent. This fact 
sometimes causes much confusion 
in international patent work.
Professor Twinks announced that 
on April 4, at 8:30 p. m., President 
Kimbal of the A. S. M. E. will de
liver a message to Mechanical En
gineers throughout the country which 
will be broadcasted by the General 
Electric Company at Schenectady, N. 
Y. Arrangements are being made 
with the Radio Club so that all in
terested may hear the message.
Tau Gamma Phi announces tho 
formal initiation of the following 
men on March 26: Prof. Edmund
M. Ashe, Arts faculty; Sophomore, 
Gilbert Sullivan, Science; Plebes, 
Robert Bankier, Harold Hill, James 
Lord, Science; Vernon Spencer and 
Frank Powers, Industries, and Wayne 
Kopppcj. .Ats.
PLEBES HELD TEA DANCE
IN UNION LAST FRIDAY
The Plebes held their fourth allj school tea dance ast Friday after
noon In the Union. Over a hundred 
couples were present, showing that 
! these affairs are growing In popular
ity. Music was furnished by the 
Tech Novelty Orchestra.
Seldom has anything been publish
ed concerning what might be called 
Carnegie's floating population.
The School of Life Insurance 
Salesmanship graduates four classes 
each year and of the whole number 
of 600 men and women who have 
been enrolled in its courses, 90 per 
cent have been graduated.
The majority of Its students are 
citizens of the United States, nearly 
every state having been represented, 
Saskatchewan and three from Nova 
Scotia which shows the scope of the 
influence of Carnegie.
Approximately 50 per cent of those 
who have taken courses are college 
men and women.
Forty women so far have received 
certificates.
The course as outlined by Prof.
G. M. Lovelace, head of the school, 
calls for 20 hours of class work and 
15 of practical work in the field, act
ually selling insurance.
Many of the students have been 
assigned to this school for training 
while still on the payroll of their 
company but tho great number are 
here of their own volition.
The school Is In close co-operation 
with about 75 life Insurance com
panies and, although tho requirement 
do not compel association with a 
company, by means or this under
standing, tho school, is ablo to do 
much toward developing tho Bcrv'lce 
of theso companies.
An Interesting precedent has been 
established by the class just grad
uated. Realizing that their success 
in practical work would be a true 
measure of the value derived from 
tlieir course they voluntarily voted 
to waive their right to the certificate 
usually presented at graduation, un
til they had performed satisfactorily 
one years work in the field.
On Wednesday, March 29, iho 
final election for tho office of presi
dent of the Sclonco Plobe class waa 
held. Aa a lesult of this and the 
previous election tlie Science Plebe 
officers for tho second semester are: 
PresidentT. P. Moessnor.
Vice PresidentClias. James. 
SecretaryG. E. Slye.
TreasurerM. Matter.
ILLUSTRATED LECTURE
ON PAPER INDUSTRY
A moving picture on the manufac
ture of paper accompanied by a very 
interesting lecture by Jesse Clark 
was given in the Industries Assem
bly Hali Tuesday afternoon at 3:30. 
The picture was shown through the 
courtesy of the Ailing ana Corry Pa
per Company of North Side, Pittsiburgh. It  showed the enormous 
plant of the Warren Paper Com
pany, one of the largest manufactur
ing companies of cover paper in the 
world. The lecture was primarily 
for the members of the Printing De
partment but was open to all.
CITMAS CLUB SMOKER
TOMORROW EVENING AT
BETA THETA PI HOUSE
The Cltmas Club will hold a smolcor and open meeting for all Masons 
on tho campus on Thursday night, 
April 6, at the Beta Theta Pi liouso, 
5519 Forbes streot. Special ontertainmont has been provided for and all 
C. I. T. Masons are urged to attend.
THREE STUDENTS TO 
TALK TO A. I. E. E.
Theme to be Power and Radio, 
Meetingto Start at 8,
 Smokes and Eats
- Three undergraduate students of 
the Electrical Engineering Depart
ment will talk at the April meeting 
of the Carnegie Tech Branch of the 
American Institute of Electrical En
gineers which will bo held tomor
row. Thursday evening, in Room 11, 
M. II., beginning at eight oclock.
Mr. L. J. Whitehead, Senior elec
trical, will present a paper on Su
per Power Possibilities in tho Region 
botweon Boston and Washington.
Mr B. Lazich, Junior Electrical, 
will talk on tho Construction of a 
Radio Receiving Set.
Mr. W. S. Andrews, Junior Elec
trical, will tell of his experiences as 
commercial wivoless operator on 
board some of tho vessels of the New 
York and iStoutli American Steamship 
Line, and of tho Isthmian Lino.
Theso talks, which aro of thirty 
minutes length each, will bo followed 
by a discussion of tho points brought 
out by tho speakers. All members 
are urged to join In this discussion, 
which should bo 0110 of tho profitable 
parts of tho evenings program.
Duq to tho length of tho program, 
the meeting will begin promptly at 
eight oclock. TI10 usual smokos and 
oats will bo at hand.
SIGMA Nil HOLDS INTERFRATERNITY SMOKER
The Sigma Nu IIouso on Forbes 
stroot was tho scono of much jolllleotlon and amusomont last Saturday 
ovonlng when tho Sigma Nu fratern
ity entertained tho other fraternities 
of the campus by a smoker. A largo 
number attended ovory frutoinlty be
ing well roproHontod, and tho house 
was well filled at all times. Dough
nuts and older wore served ovor tho 
bar and clgarottoH, rooios, and corn
cob plpos woro passed out for those 
that usod I bom. Tho bar room was 
quite realistic bringing back fond 
momorloa of tho far distant pant and 
whoro 1,hoy obtained) furnishings of 
such antiquity la to bo wondered at.
A good program was arranged for 
Iho ovonlng. C. Colvin and Jack 
Bubb gave a humorous skit, entitled 
Mr. East End aud Mrs. Wylie Ave
nue." F. O. Smith and Gilbert put 
on "Mr. Gallagher and Mr. Shonno.* 
Dean Tarbell and Graduate Mamigor 
Frank Haaron gave talks on athletic 
council at 'Carnogio Tech and at 
other oollogos throughout tho coun
try. Mr. 10. Klrkpalrlck, Carnegie's 
new basoball coach, spoke on tho 
Plaid basoball prospocts for tills 
year, Thorp woro also two enter
tainers from tho Keith Vaudeville Cir
cuit who gave somo vocat solos and 
humorous sketches. Director Mott 
and Dr. Baker, who had como in 
late, each said a fow words express
ing their approval of tne rratornlty 
get-together in the form of smokors 
and of tho good work that tho fra
ternities were doing on tho cnmpua.
Between tho different number 011 
the program the visitors roamed 
from room to room getting acquaint
ed witli each other and having a 
general good time.
POSITIONS ARE 
COMING IN FOR 
PRESENT GRADS.
Employment Bureau Reports 
Conditions Are Better Than 
Last Year. All of This Years 
Class Were Interviewed
GOOD POSITIONS OPEN
Mr. Tilbrook, In charge of the Em
ployment Bureau nt Carnogio Tech, 
states that, oven though economic 
conditions are bolow normal, many 
inquiries for technical men tiro be
ing received at the burelUi from con
cerns in various parts of the coun
try. The economic situation readied 
Its lowest point last August and, al
though running parallel for several 
months, is now on iho up grade. As 
a result of the) optimism pervading in 
regard to the future, tho bureau is
I11 a position to .place more men in 
better positions than they were able 
to last year.
Tho policy and methods of the bu
reau are definite and systematic. All 
of the 225 present graduating men, 
of tho various colleges of Carnegie 
Tocli, have been interviewed by the 
bureau, respecting their personal his
tory, tho nature of their work, thoir 
training, their preference to loca
tion and tho companies with which 
they would lilco to bo connected. 
The bureau also rocotves from the 
faculty an individual report 011 oacli 
graduate as to Ills training and the 
quality of his school work. This 
data gives the bureau dofinlto Infor
mation with which to work.
Tho bureau has on IIlo a list of 
(Continued 011 Pago Three.)
Scarab Fraternity 
Convention Here
Local Chapter Hosts to 
National Body
HIGH MEN ANNOUNCED IN
FIRST CHESS TOURNAMENT
UNIQUE LIGHTING SEEN
AT AVO CLUB DANCE
Banks of red. blue, green and yel
low light, cleverly interposed by 
colored balloons and paper stream
ers made the Avo Club dance in the 
Union last Friday night, a feature? 
of the season. A large C. I. T. op
posite the ontranoe and tho colored 
lamp fitrung around the tiall paid 
tribute to the skill of the Industries 
Electricians.
Tho patrons and patronesses woro 
Mr. Fink, Mr. Hu us, Miss Winchester 
and Miss Davidson. Refreshments 
wore served to tho dancers, and ex
cellent music was furnished by tho 
Tartan Entertainers.
RADIO CLUB MEETING
There will bo a meeting of tho Ra
dio Club tonight In Machinery Hall 
Tower Room. Watch the bulletin 
board for announcement of the speak
er. An interesting program for all 
radio boys is provided.
The results of the first Chess Club 
tournament show that Jablansky, 
Watt, I-Iorellch, Golamb, Sky, Prleger 
and Ragsdale are the high men.
A tie exists between Golamb and 
Sky, which will be played off imme
diately to decide wnich pmyer will 
go in the finals.
The above named men will play 
in the finals, which f will be com
pleted shortly after tne Easter vaca
tion.
The team to represent Carnegie 
Tech will probably be chosen from 
these men as soon as the second 
tournament is completed.
JOHNSON ELECTED TO
STUDENT ACT. BOARD
Lode Johnson of the College of 
Industries was elected to supercede 
Mr. Oakley on the Student Activities 
Hoard at tho Industries Assembly 
last Wednesday. There were four 
candidates for this position and Mr, 
Johnson lod all by a large voto. Ho 
will servo on this board tho romalndor of this year and also noxl 
yen r.
The assembly was made very brief 
and tho greater part of tho hour 
was talcon up by a mooting of tho 
Tech Mechanics CIu':.
ARCHITECTS TO FINISH
PROBLEM BEFORE VACATION
The Easter vacation for the Arch
itects will not begin until midnight, 
April 8. It will be welcomed by 
them as a real vacation ror on that
/
Tho tearab Architectural rratorn
lty hold ita sixth annual national 
convention boro In tho College of 
Fino Arts lust Friday and Saturday, 
March 11. and April I. Mr. E. J. 
McDonald, formerly ol! I.I10 Univer
sity of Illinois, presided at tho con
vention. Mr. Clomons Nicholas, for
merly of Washington University, St. 
Louis, rocorded tho minutes In tho 
ab serico Of Mr. Uaipn cronby of 
Carnogio Tocli, who was unable to 
come to the convention, from Los 
Angelos, whore he In now located.
Tho seven chapters woro represent
ed by tho following delegates: Mr. 
Valentino, Unlvorslty of Illinois; 
Mr. Grey, Washington University (St. 
Loubt); Mr. McCormick, Chicago 
School of Architecture; Mr, Froliwork, Kansas Unlvorslty; Mr. Wobor, 
MassaojSPottii Institute or Technol
ogy; Mr. Snvololn, Penn Stato Col
lege, .and Mr. C, W. Hunt, Carnogio 
Institute of Technology. Mr. (am
bio of Penn Stato, was also present 
as well as several members of tho 
local cthaplor.
Tho business of tho convention 
started at 10 oclock Friday morning 
and continued throughout tho day 
and all day Saturday. The work ac
complished during Iho businoss ses
sions will bring about a much 
stronger organization and result in 
a firm foundation upon which to en
large tho fraternity. Flaps for fu
ture prizes and scholarships were 
formulated and ideas on enhibltions 
and activities of various kinds which 
tho different chapters could partici
pate in, woro discussed.
Through the courtesy of tho com
mittee of "Alumni Night, the 
Scarab delegates were delightfully 
ontertainod on Friday night at a 
(Continued on Pago Four.)
Last Chapel of Year Held
Supplies Need for Religious 
Influence on Campus
Last Monday noon the final chapel 
exercises for this year were held, clos
ing the long aeries of these much ap
preciated hours in which the tollers 
of the Carnegie Campus could moot 
and direct their attention to devo
tion and worship. Though at time 
the attendance was small, often there 
were two or three Hundred present, 
and the Y. M. C. A. and Y. W. C. A. 
here, are pleased with the results of 
their efforts. TlioSo organizations 
were particularly fortunate in obtain
ing renowned speakers, Including 
many prominent Pittsburgh clergy
men and also men of International 
Interest from tho Orient. Many of 
tho faculty, administration, and stu
dent body of Carnegie have expressed 
their Interest and appreciation, of 
theso chapol exorclsoa, and thoir con
tinuance In coming yours Is assured.
night they will finish thoir fourth 
Beaux Arts problem of tho year. 
They are working earnestly In an 
effort to havo their problems come 
out on top at the judgment on April 
25. The Class B men are working 
on a solution of a Jewelry Shop" 
while tho Class "C men are work
ing on a solution of a "Pavilion on 
a Bridge.

---------------------------------------------------

THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1922
 CFnsgie Sfittati
Published every week by undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology under the supervision of the Student Activities Board.
Entered in the Postonico of Pittsburgh as second-class matter.
FREDERICK L. KNOWLES .......................................................... Editor-In-Chief
 Telephone, Iia/.el 9398 
WILUAM R. MILLS .................................................................. VOL.XXILN Manager.
Telephone, Schenley 2053-11
VIC. II. STItOMQUIST ................................................................ Managing Editor
Telephono, Ililand 858
HELEN V. LEWIS ....................................................................... Associate Editor
Telephone, Schenley 9079
L. J. WHITEHEAD ...................................................................... Anuoolato Editor
Telephone, Schenley 9070
EDWARD A. BRAND .............................................................................. Nows Editor
Telephone, Sclionloy 9070
II. F. SIMPSON.....................................................................................Athletic Editor
Telephone, Schenley 9070
R. II. GUYTON...................................................................................... Photographer
O. A. D1C KM AN.............,.............................................................. Exchange Editor
H. D. SONNEMANNAdvertising Manager
Telephone. Schenley 9211
E. L. REILLY .......................................................................... Circulation Manager
EDITORIAL ASSISTA NTS 
Gladys Bogue, M. Schumacher, II. F. Dieter, A. Lubin, Vincent, Roy, 
P. C. MacKon/.ie, H. H. Lofkowitz, W. -I. Bolton, L. Hertzman, E. J. Maust, 
R. P. Hay, .7. A. Dougherty, M. S. Downes, W. G. Sullivan, F. C. Smith, L. 
Byoriy, W. K. Sheppard, V. L. Mattson, It. J. Kredel, F. D. Rossini, V. L. 
Spencor, W. Winning.
ATHLETIC CONTRIBUTORS 
II. H. Wilson, H. J. McCormick, J. A. Derno, L. D. Allsliouse, E. C. Frazier.
BUSINESS ASSISTANTS 
.T. M. Cooper, E. Sowers, W. 13. Cunningham, C. C. Kaltenhauser, J. C. 
Major, F.* IT. 28..LCAXR A. D. Young, W. L. Miller, L. M. Landis, P. F. Schucker 
and T. J. Dempsey.
The Editor-in-chief Is responsible, for tho policy of this paper; 
Managing Editor for tho make up.
tho
The Tartan welcomes all communications of student Interest, if signed. 
Signature will be withheld If desired. All news items must be in tho student 
post office before 4:80 Friday.
Tartan OfficeRoom 5-A, Industries Building. 
11:30 to 1:00, Wednesday, 12:00 to 1:00.
Office hoursTuesday,
GET YOUR MAN
After the Buster vacation all of us will bo working for and an
ticipating Campus Week. The primary object oL Campus Week is to 
bring the old graduates back to Pittsburgh. Remembering that the 
Junior Clans and sectional clubs are planning to do missionary work 
among the' alumni in. their section, we would like to extend the idea 
to every man who will leave Pittsburgh for the Easter holidays. ^ 
Look up an alumnus in your town. Get personally acquainted 
with him and tell him about Campus Week. Instill this one idea into 
liis head, Campus Week is for the Alumnus. Tell him what the 
school is doing and what Campus Week is like. Tell him about the 
fun you had last year. Toll him that Campus Week is principally an 
attraction to bring him back to his Alma Mater and we are doing our 
best:, because we desire to meet him, hear some of his experiences and 
find out how a Carnegie Tech graduate fares in the outside world.
If you arc not able to actively work for Campus Week, let this 
be your part. Bring back, at least, one alumnus for Campus Week.
ACHIEVEMENT
Wo wish to extend pur congratulations to the following men who 
have successfully competed for a. place on the reporting stall1 of the 
Carnegie Tartan: V. .AE Mattson, W. K. Sheppard, R. J. Kredel, I<" 
D. Rossini, V. L. Spencer, W. Winning and E. C. Frazier.
Calendar of Student Events
T1IURSDAY, I'MH DAY AND SATURDAY, APRIL 0, 7 AND 8
DramaNight School............................................................8:15, Arts Theater
SATIJItDAY, APRI .A G
''Basoball---Westminster vs. Carnogio.........................................................Hero
First Day of Easter Rocoss.
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, APRIL 12 AND 13
BaseballMarsliall Collogo vs. Carnogio...............................................Thoro
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY, APRIL 14 AN.D 15
BaseballWost Virginia, 'Wesleyan vs. Carnogio.................................Thoro
MONDAY, APR,IL 17
SmokerNigh I; SI-udenlM ............................................8:00, Carnegie Union
TUESDAY, APRIL 18 
First Day of Glasses After Easter Recess.
FRIDAY, APRIL 21
Basoball West Virginia vs. Carnogio....................................................Thoro
Exhibition Night.............................................................................Four Schools
Dniicc Cosmopolitan (!lnl)  r.................................8 :'}(), Carnegie Union
SATURDAY, AIM ML 22
Baseball -Wesli Virginia vs. Carnegie......................................................There
Dance Department oil Applied Art..............8:15, College of Fino Arts
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 26
Basoball S'warthmoro vs. Carnogio ....................................... Thoro
THURSDAY, APRIL 27
Baseball....Delaware vs. Carnegie...........................................................There
FRIDAY, APRIL 28
Triangular Debate...........................W. & J., West Virginia and Carnegie
SATURDAY, APRIL 29
BaseballNavy vs. Carnegie................................................................... There
DanceScalp and Blade Dance...................................8:30, Carnegie Union
QUESTIONS COMPILED FOR 
BENEFIT OF MEN STUDENTS
Our esteemed contemporary, Tho 
Shilling, is now engaged in determin
ing the pleasures, pastimes and gen
eral habits of the Maggie Murphs. 
The Tartan staff thoroughly approves 
of this move, and believes that it will 
be a distinct contribution to scientific 
knowledge.
The staff further believes that a 
questionnaire from the men would be 
of equal value ,and would supplement 
the Shillings canvass. For that rea
son the following list of questions 
has been compiled.
Fill out this list to the best of your 
ability. Be concise, but answer all 
questions thoroughly and truthfully. 
Drop answer In the Tartan box. It is 
our opinion that the Tech man can 
size up to a real standard on any and 
all situations, and wo hope to prove 
It from those rosults.
1. Your year at Mr. Carneglo's 
school for hoys?
2. Your ago? Number of yoavs 
since you banned to drink.
3. Is your homo town on tho map?
1. When do you oxpoct to bo unelm inod?
5. Is your dad's job good for anoth
er ten years?
G. Do' you still have good sense? 
Do you figure on losing it soon?
7. Do you wear em buckled, or 
do you flap 'em? If the latter, what 
security do you have for your frat 
pin?
S. Do her parents expect you to 
marry her?
9. Can you live on what Bhe 
makes?
10. How many Maggies do you 
really know? (We said know.)
11. Do you know more chorus girls 
than park bench heroines? /
12. Which is the more profitable?
13. Does your temperament crav 
blondes or brunettes?
14. Has your girl read The Shielc1
15. What's your capacity? In gal
lons? Blondes? Cigarets?
16. Do you ever study? Ever fig
ure on studying? (We want the 
truth.)
17. Do you read The Police Ga
zette regularly? Does your girl like 
it too? (Thats good.)
18. Can you throw a good lino?
19. Then why are you in college
20. Has college life taught you 
that blondes have tompers, and that 
brunottoH aro part blondes?
21. If not, why not?
22. Has collogo Ufo taught you to 
look at a girl's goloshes and road her 
telephono number?
23. Can you put two raisins and 
a molooulo of yeast into throo drams 
of elder and got gin as an answ 
(If yes, come in and soe us.)
2*1. Do you hoitevo that a collogo 
man should work?
21). After examinations, can you 
deliver a throe-minute impromptu dls. 
sortatlon on your opinion of the fac
ulty without repeating yourself?
2G. If answer to last question is 
yes, youre a success. If answer is no 
go back to a prep school.
NEWMAN CLUB TO HOLD
FORMAL DANCE APRIL
On Wednesday April 26, the New
man Club of Pittsburgh is having its 
annual formal dance at the Knights 
of Columbus Ballroom located
Bellefield and Fifth avenues. I Grand march 9:30,
All Newmanites should be tliere $4.50 per couple.
RE8ULTS, NOT ALIBIS
Those age-old dispensen*, of human 
ills: and pleasures, Fate and Circum
stance, have handed out some protty 
tough problems to a lot of people 
within the last few weeks. In fact it 
would almost seem that they were 
trying the breaking point of most of 
their visitant.
In this, as in other well regulated 
universities, the normal amount of 
school work seems laid out as the 
maximum attainable load with the 
studont working at high efficiency 
and In good health. This is conduc
tivo to steady, hard work under nor
mal conditions, but under tho strain 
of poor health tho handicap is groater.
The prevalence of colds, grlppo and 
other health, destroyers, nesldes be
ing a general nrisance and a partic
ular discomfort to tho unfortunates, 
also brings to light many a hidden 
trait of character otherwise seldom 
noticed.
That man Is a splendid worker un
der ideal conditions,", you say. "But 
wiiat does ho do in time of trouble?" 
is tlio immediate return question. 
The world Is full of fair weather 
men, but what about the fellows who 
can stick while tho whole world falls 
about; them? They may be few in 
number by comparison but greater by 
far is their worth to their commun
ity.
History fails to record with much 
detail or credit, tho lives of myriads 
of men and their kings who lived, 
plendldly' useful, lives hi the midst 
of peace and quiet, but those same 
pages ring deep with deserving praise 
of the men who, beset by all manner 
of difficulties, held steadfast to their 
goal, whatever it might be, and fought 
good fight against whatever odds 
might coma. Discouragement, ill
health, loss of friends, and portends 
of failure are indeed the things which 
stir men's souls to super-men.
As a rule, the man with the alibi 
SN the man who is trying hardest to 
"get by. The fellow who smilingly 
accepts ineviitablo' decrees of Fato, 
and Circumstances, then turns the 
adverse ones squarely about and 
makes them serve his own ends, is 
tho man who will ultimately land on 
top while his competitors are still de
bating the easiest way out of their 
troubles.
Is a slight Illness bluffing you into 
inaction? Or can you overstep your 
troubles and got results in spite of 
handicaps.Purdue Exponent.
TALK CARNEGIE
You going home for Easter? Talk 
Carnegie. Remember the time is ripe. 
For getting' the kitls. At home Inter
ested. In the best school In this sec
tion. The Seniors:at high.. Are start
ing to think. Of a place to hang 
their. Hat for the next. Four years. 
Tell them about it. Down here in 
Pittsburgh. And quit your nagging 
about tho petty things. Help your 
school. And boost the Institution. 
There are others doing the same. For 
their Alma Mata. Beat em to It. And 
talk Carnegie.
Dr. T. S. Baker Acting
President of C. 1. T
Tho long looked for. And muchly 
sought? Shilling. Made its appear
ance. On the campus. Last week at 
four or more. Different places. Each 
well guarded. By four of the fair sex. 
For two bits. You got the book. And 
a little thrill. With a most courte
ous. "Thank you. And now SOJ see. 
Tho reason. They read the book. 
'Fore wo did. ' Well anyhow. I got 
me off. Into a quiet corner. And 
perused a little of the contents. But 
amen. I could find nothing. To in
terest. The brain of an engineer. The 
first one you. Strike. Is "The Trag
edy." And gosh what tears. I shed. 
Maybe that appealed to. The lighter 
mood of the girls. But Bud was so 
subdued. There was nothing. To 
arouse ones interest. Maybe he. 
Was "only a concrete example." "On 
Being Modern. Is some kind of an 
attempt. To defend the modern girl. 
By the use of the process. Reductlo 
ad absurdum. Daniel Webster. The 
Purple Cow. Harper's Eazaar. And 
Cleopatra. Are all dragged in. To 
help along the process.
I thought I saw a ray of hope. With 
the serlb entitled. Tramps. Shades 
of St. Steffen. What a story. For a 
spring number. All you have to do. 
To get that feeling. Is step right out
side your door. Any rainy night.
Miss Sondheims letter. Wasnt so 
bad. Till she pipes up. I did not 
dare to cite the 'iartan as practical 
experience. Gee, Ill! bet that tick
led. The staff to have that put in.
Well, at least were safe. Till cam
pus week. Before another issue. But 
if the support. Of all the men. Is 
sought for this publication. Put out 
the stories. That appeal to men. As 
well as the lighter stuff. Lets try it 
awhile.
ROAMER.
Dr. Baker is a firm believer in the 
great future that lies before the Car
negie Institute of Technology. He 
believes that this future will be realiz
ed by maintaining the highest stand
ards of scholarship. At present the 
emphasis must be laid on thorough
going undergraduate work; but the 
time will come, though possibly not 
in the near future, when Pittsburgh 
will maintain a great institution for 
post graduate study in the field of 
pure science. This would conflict in 
no way with the work the Mellon In
stitute is doing, as it is concerned 
primarily with the applications of 
science for practical needs. Dr. Baker 
believes an institution on an inde
pendent foundation, such as ours, has 
unusual opportunity and responsibil
ity.
Students Are Interested in 
Second issue of Shilling
Y. W. C. A.
Tho Tartan printed an article last 
woolc concerning tho party to be hold 
last Wednesday afternoon in honor of 
tho P. C. W. and Pitt Y. W. C. A. 
girls. In tho midst of the plans, it 
was discovered that the Easter vaca
tion for P. C. W. was scheduled for 
that woolc. The party had to bo 
called off, but will bo held soon after 
our Easter recess.
This afternoon thoro Is to bo a 
meeting in which each ono of us will 
talco part. If you have anything to 
nay about tho Y. W. C. A. wo want 
you to come out and say It. If you 
dont como, w,q want to know why. 
If you do como, wo want to know 
why. If you como only once In a 
while, wo want to know why you 
don't conio moro often. This Isn't 
a mooting where you have to talk, 
hut whore wo Just want to got to
gether and learn whoro wo are 
weak. Wo uro all woalc. Lots all 
holp each other to bo strong. This 
afternoon at 4:30 In tho Recreation 
Hall, and wo want to soo everyone. 
Well all just talk, informally.
Bill Says
material is mediocre.
Time and experience are needed be
fore the Shilling can become as good 
as it should, but when more interest 
is shown, and when experience as to 
material and style is acquired, it will 
take its place among the publications 
as a credit to Carnegie Tech.
SENIOR-PHYSICAL EDUCATION 
GAME30-15 
Tho game between tho Seniors and 
tho Physical Eds was played off last 
Friday noon at 12:30. It was a fast 
gamo and kept everyone moving with 
nothing loss than railroad speed. 
(We speak now of tho average rail
road, say the Lightning Express.) 
The Physical Ed's played with excel
lent team wtorl. The ISeniors all 
played hard and did the best they 
could, and voted their opponents a 
great old team to play with. Lets 
hope for more good games like this 
with perhaps a little closes score.
this is going to be the best of 
26 the many dances held by the club 
this year.
The committee is making elaborate 
prepara tons for this dance and all 
that attend will be sure of a good 
at j time.
Grand
TWO PLEBES RECEIVE
FREE FACIAL DECORATIONS 
AT SCIENCE ASSEMBLY
A much delayed ceremony was be
ing performed before the Science 
Assembly. Under the direction of 
their chairman, two members of the 
Sophomore Committee on Plebe Reg
ulations were industriously, if not 
artistically, painting, with all the 
colors of the rainbow, the faces of 
two refractory Plebes, who had been 
sentenced to this portrait sitting, for 
violating regulations.
The ceremony proceeded with all 
duo pomp and composure amid the 
giggles of the Plebes, the boisterous 
laughing and liandclappnig of the 
Sophomores, the guffaws of the Jun
iors, and tho silent smilos of the Sen
iors. Finally, as all things must, the 
painting came to an oml; although, 
if thoro had boon sufflclont canvas, 
those artists would bo daubing yet. 
Deftly tho artists Hipped down thoir 
brushes and carefully and cautiously 
closed and secreted thoir box of 
many colors.
Tho Sophomore chairman assisted 
tho two decorated Plobos from their 
seats and cautioned them to remain 
in status quo for ono whole weOk. 
Just then a voice from the audience 
called out, Whats tho charge?" 
This stumped the chairman for but 
a. fleeting moment. Ho returned the 
following curt explanation:
There is no charge. Its free.
When you vote In class or school 
affairs what do you take into consid
eration? Do you vote for a man be
cause ho belongs to one particular 
class, because he Is your fraternity 
brother, or because ho Is a member of 
the same department that you are 
In? Undoubtedly tliere are many who 
In truthfully answering the above 
question would say "No.
The great evil now existing in all 
politics whether they bo civic, nation
al, or Bcliool, is that of electing a 
man not because he is the man for 
the job but because his friend or 
associates desire that he hold the offlco.
In a groat many cases a certain 
clique may englnoor a candidate 
through an ofllco who may not be ob
jectionable but who may not bo as fit 
for tho office as tho other fellow.
Voto for a man because ho is fit 
for tho ofllconot because ho is a 
friend, or because he bolongs to one 
particular dopartmont in' tho school. 
Uomomhoring your Alma Mater you 
will voto for candidates who promote 
Its progross.
INDUSTRIES PLEBE BANQUET
IS COMPLETE SURPRISE
(Continued From Page One.) 
turned to the campus they were full 
of enthusiasm, eager to show the 
rest of the world that they were 
awake. The plan was to place a 
25 pennant on tho school flag pole, 
which was successfully accomplished. 
About this time the Sophomores sat 
up and took notice of this flagrant 
action of the Industry Plebes, and 
decided to take a hand.
At the start, the isopnomores were 
greatly outnumbered, and were put 
to flight by the victorious Plebes. 
This caused them to reconnoitre, 
with the result that soon both sides 
were more evenly matched by Soph
omores flying to the scene of action 
from all quarters. The flag was then 
promptly pulled down, no class be
ing the worse for the little encounter. 
Such affairs have an innocent mean
ing, but go far to increase Carnegie 
Tech spirit among the underclass
men.
ARTS PLEBES NOMINATE
OFFICERS FOR REST OF YEAR
Admission  The Design Plebe class held
class meeting on Friday, the 24th,
DR. ELSCHNER TO LECTURE ON
SOUTH SEA ISLANDS NEXT FRI
Dr. C. Elscliner nvm lecture oi 
the South Sea Isands next Friday 
evening, April 7, at eight oclock, in 
the Fellows Room of the Mellon In
stitute. Dr. Elsclmer is very well 
fitted to speak on this subject as he 
spent several years in the South 
Seas. He will illustrate his talk with 
a variety of pictures seldom seen 
In this city. This lecture will pique 
tho intorost of anybody even if he 
has not heard of Paul Gauguin or 
Frodorlck OBrion.
in $oom 106. Design School, for Uie 
purposo of electing now officers for 
the remaining part, of tho year, Presi
dent Malloy presiding.
The nominations for President .wero 
as follows: Harry Murray, Tom
Garnian, Eddie Good, Phil Thorn, 
Zimmerman, Jos. La'uglirey, Wayne 
Koppes.
The following wero nominated for 
vice . president: Miss Taylor, Miss
Diamond.
The following were nominated for 
secretary: Miss Pierce, Miss Wyland.
The following were nominated for 
treasurer: Harding Thayer, Barn^
hart. John Douglass, Frank Zozzora.
Elections will bo in tne near fu
ture.
TAU BETA PI HOLDS
INITIATION BANQUET
The second issue of the Shilling ap
peared last Tuesday and was snapped 
up by the students, who were anxious 
to see the magazine published by M.
M. C. The first issue came out prac
tically without notice or advertise
ment and many students did not see 
it. This factor was very much pres
ent in the second issue and as a re
sult, many copies were sold.
The magazine itself shows room for 
improvement. Some one or some 
group on the staff seem to think that 
the other publications are antagonis
tic to Shilling. This is shown in the 
letters to the Tartan, it is shown in 
the first number; and the last issue 
still hfints at such a feeling. This is 
absolutely unfounded as the other 
publications have no objections to 
Shilling. There is room on the cam
pus for such a publication and, in 
fact, there is need for such a maga
zine. Until the Shilling ceases to be 
so touchy, it can never become an as
set to the school.
The article On Being Modern, by 
Miss Duncombe, as well as some of 
the jokes are good. The Alumna Let
ter is also amusing. The rest of the. manner that everyone was able to
(Continued From Page One.) 
Peterson, the last three named being. 
Carnegie Tech graduates and Tau. 
Eeta Pi Alumni.
Director Mott in his talk spoke of 
the various qualities or characteris
tics that are essential to a man in 
order that lie be a successful engin
eer emphasizing the appreciation, 
of the finer things of life, commonsense, the ability to understand and 
get along with men, good judgment,, 
the use of good English and scholar
ship. Prof. Simmons in his speech, 
drew an analogy between the test
ing of materials in the Materials 
Laboratory and the testing of Tau Bet 
Li man after they had gone out ini 
the world to fill positions. He stated 
that he had found that they tested 
well.
The banquet was well attended,, 
nearly of the active members being; 
present and a few of the alumni com
ing back to take part in the ceremo
nies. The menu was excellent and 
the speeches were very pleasant, be
ing made up of humorous tales and 
serious matter and put across in suchJUNIOR SECTION
OF A. S. C. E. MEETS
Thursday, March 30, in Room 122, 
'Science, the first meeting of the Junappreciate them.
ior Section of the American Society* 
of, Civil Engineers was held under 
the charter recently granted the Civil 
Engineering Society by the American 
Society of Civil Engineers.
Aftr a short business meeting 
the section enjoyed a lane by Mr. 
Boyd, a graduate of the civil engi
neering department of this school 
class 1912, on Locomotive Terminal 
Facilities of the Pennsylvania Rail
road.
DR. THOMAS STOCKTON BAKER
In a recent address delivered in 
New York, reported in the New York 
Times of March 15, he is quoted as 
saying:
The present trend makes it highly 
important that colleges and univer
sities independent of state control be 
supported liberally. We have witness
ed a mostextraordinary effort on the 
part of a state legislature to inter
fere with the courses of study of the 
schools and colleges of the state. Un
der the Influence of an almost fanatic 
bigotry a bill was introduced into 
the Kentucky legislature which for
bade instruction in the subject of evo
lution in any of the state-supported 
Institutions.
It Is true that the bill did not pass, 
but it was defeated by a small mar
gin only after a bitter struggle. Such 
legislation might be considered a joke 
if it were not a symptom of what is 
taking place elsewhere in a less ludi
crous form.
"The president of one of the im
portant state universities in his in
augural address, given something 
more than a year ago, said in sub
stance that It is the function of the 
college supported by public funds to 
give the people wliat they want. He 
said nothing about the responsibility 
of a great institution to lead the peo
ple.
"Tliere is a great public responsi
bility upon institutions independent 
of tho control of state legislatures 
and state boards of education, that 
can afford to set themselves against 
the deplorable tendencies to weaken 
the training in tho public schools 
that can set up high standards and 
maintain them; that can strive to 
lend the people rather than follow in 
the wake of popular demands.
Although ho has traveled far and 
often, until he came to Tech Dr. 
Baker always returned from his
travels to his native state to work 
and live. He was born at Aberdeen, 
Harford county, Maryland, March 23, 
1S71, and his parents prefixed Thos. 
iStockham to the family name for his 
use. As soon as he was old enough 
he went to Johns Hopkins at Balti
more and affixed an A. B. and then a 
Ph.D. to all that went beforewhere
fore, we call him Dr. Baker.
After taking his first degree in 
1891 he went to the University of 
Leipsic for a year and then returned 
to Johns Hopkins, tookj his doctors 
degree in 1S95, and remained there 
until 1900 as an associate in modern 
languages. From 1900 until 1909 he 
was professor of modern languages 
at the Jacob Tome Institute of Port 
Deposit, Maryland and lecturer on 
modern literature to graduate, stu
dents at Johns Hopkins. From 1909 
until 1919 he was head master at 
Tome; in March of the latter year he 
forsook his Maryland for Pennsyl
vania, the Pittsburgh A. A., and C. I. 
T.
Dr. Baker was for ten years a_contributing editor on the staff of the 
Baltimore Sun and has been for many 
years a frequent contributor on lit
erature and education not only to pro
fessional society publications, but 
also to leading newspapers, such as 
the New York Times and the New 
York Evening Post. He was the first 
prominent educator to investigate and 
report upon the "Gary System" as in
stituted at Gary, Indiana, and wrote a 
series of articles on the subject for 
tlio Now York Times.
During his ten years as head mas
ter, Tome became well and favorably 
known as a great boys school. Dr. 
Bakers interest in and study of boys 
is evidenced in his published essays, 
notably "Tho Changing Amorlcan 
Boy which appeared in the New 
York Times and The Education of 
Boys, originally given as a Com
mencement address at Johns Hop
kins.
Dr. Baker is a strong admirer of 
the Tech student body and has fre
quently expressed the belief that 
there are few American colleges that 
have as serious a body of undergrad
uates and as large a percentage of 
students who are genuinely interest
ed in getting an education. This is 
one of Techs great assets, and some 
of the undergraduates of today will 
some day bring distinction xjon their 
Alma Mater.
2.
4.
Why College Men Are Making Good 
in the Life Insurance Field
1. Because thejr have the capacity to understand 
the vital economic necessity of Life Insurance, 
and interpret its necessity with the fervor bom 
of personal conviction.
No business offers such large rewards, both im
mediate and ultimate, without invested capital. 
Their education, and social standing, is in keep
ing with the dignity of the institution of Life 
Insurance.
The need of Life Insurance prevails wherever 
people live, and ambitious college men need not 
sever the home relationships in the establish
ment of a permanent business.
5. The acute minds of college men, give them ac
cess to the large minds of business, and they 
have opportunity for creating markets, which 
would never occur to those not so well equipped 
mentally and socially.
The Edward A. Woods Company seeks oppor
tunity of presenting concrete facts about the poten
tialities of Life Insurance as a profession for college 
men of unlimited ambition.
THE EDWARD A. WOODS COMPANY
General Agents
The Equitable Life Assurance Society
of the United States 
PRICK BUILDING 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
^pn tliei:
TeAUFHAMMER & EVANS
HATS and MENS FURNISHINGS
6100 PENN AVENUE
I........JACQUES DANCING ACADEMY........I
-{? CRAIG AND FORBES STREET X
X Member of A. N. A. M. of D. Open All Year.
> BELL PHONE X
* Classes each evening. Private lessons dally.
 A SCHOOL NOT A PUBLIC DANCE HALL
SKIBO INN;
Bemodeled and 
Enlarged
CLEAN,
WHOLESOME
FOOD
Served at best prices 
CIGARS CANDY
MISS OLEARY
CLEANING AND PRESSING 
Ladles and Men's Clothes. 
Call Schenley 389.
3933 FORBES STREET
HARRYS 
RESTAURANT AND 
LUNCH ROOM
Best Meals at reasonable
prices. 
3719 Forbes St.Oakland
Oakland Community House
TAKE YOUR CHOICE *
WEEK DAYS
Chess or checkers.
Pool Tournament.
Latest magazines.
Study room.
Play and sing.
Club, frat or committee meetings.
Just visit.
SUNDAYS
Bible Study Classes.............................10:00 A. M.
Quiet .......................................Sunday afternoon
Friends, fellowship, refreshments and a 'helpful
young peoples meeting............5:30-7:30 P. M.
Information and friendly help any time. 
Oakland Methodist Church and 
Community House 
FORBES AND BCQUET STREETS

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1922THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREE
IOTA SIGMA DELTA 
TAKES TROPHY CUP
Close Victory From S. A. E. 
Decides Winner of Scalp 
and Blade Cup
The Iota Sigma Delta Fraternity 
clinched their hold on the Scalp and 
Blade Trophy by decisively defeat
ing the Sigma Alpha Epsilon team 
last Thursday night, by the score of 
28-21,
This was the fifth game of the se
ries to determine the inter-fraternity 
dorm basketball championship and it 
was bitterly contested from start to 
finish. The Signa Alpha Epsilon 
squad started the game with a rush 
and scored four points before their 
opponents were able to register a 
single one. Iota Sigma Delta, how
ever, soon overcame this lead and at 
the end of the first half they werQ 
trailing by a single point.
Both teams started the second half 
determined to win, and the play was 
so fast that the winner was in doubt 
until the last few minutes of the 
game, when Wilson, of the Iota Sigma 
Delta team, scored two field'goals in 
rapid succession. This gave his team 
a lead which the Sigma Alpha Epsilon 
was unable to overcome and the game 
ended with the score 28-21.
Wilson and Kennedy starred for 
the victors, while Alexander and Ternmel played the best game for Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon.
Inter-Fraternity Basket 
Ball Season Brought to End
COLLEGE SPORTS AND 
THE UNDERGRADUATE
It doesnt matter so much what 
college faculties think about ath
letics. It is what the undergraduate 
thinks that is really vital.
The Outlook wants to know, and 
to help others to know, the trend of 
this undergraduate opinion; so we 
are offering ten prizes for the best 
letters of six hundred words or less 
from college undergraduates on In
tercollegiate Athletics.
There will be:
A first prize of Twenty-five Dollars.
A second prize of Twenty Dollars.
A third prize of Fifteen Dollars.
Seven fourth prizes of Ten Dol
lars.
There are a lot of questions which 
we think our readers would like to 
ask the Undergraduate. Here are 
some of them:
What is the place of athletices in 
education? What constitutes the 
amateur spirit? Is it worth pre
serving? Is it endangered by prosely
ting? By athletics scholarships? 
By professionalism?
Is too much emphasis, or too little 
placed upon sport? Upon victory? 
Upon championships?
Should the present system of in
tercollegiate athletics be modified 
iHow? Should the undergraduate have 
more, or less, to say concerning 
coaching .methods? Shedules Eligi
bility rules?
What does the undergraduate think 
of the ethical standards and attitude 
of sport writers? What does he 
think of newspaper publicity? Huge 
expenditures for stadiums and trans
continental tours?
Those who try for our prizes 
should not try to answer allthey 
need not try to
On The Plaid Screen
BY H. F. SIMPSON
CARNEGIE TECH VS. WESTMINSTER
What? First baseball game of the season!
When? Saturday afternoon, April Sth!
Where? Baseball diamond ou-the-cut!
Everybody out!
The team is a good one, and deserves the support ot the entire student 
body. They will win if youre out there to help them, so, do not deny them 
that which you can give.
A cheer leader out too!
And you, Fellow Students, cheer them on as you did the football team. 
See you Saturday!
Start the season rightthe team with a victorythe students with their 
support!
SIGMA NU SMOKERDEAN TARBELLA CONFERENCE
At the Sigma Nu Smoker of last Saturday night, Dean Tarbell spoke in 
behalf of a conference in this district. There is no denying the fact that it 
would be a good thing. All other districts have themcheck them off: South, 
Southwest, West Middle West. The only section that lacks one is the East, 
which includes Western Pennsylvania and West Virginia. Dean Tarbell men
tioned in his speech that this districtour districtwas pointed out by all 
conferences with slighting remarks because of that.
About three weeks ago a discussion appeared in the local newspaper on 
the subject. The Plaid Screen commented on the subject. Now it is brought 
up again. Why not some action now? It is bound to come at some time in 
the future. Let us get the wheels turning, and start fitting the gears together 
NOWNOT SOON.
Look them over: Penn State, Carnegie Tech, Pitt, Wash-Jeff, West Vir
ginia, West Virginia Wesleyan, Buclcnell and many others. Conferences have 
been made up of less than this number.
The advantages of a conference are many foldfact is, they are so selfevident that to mention them would be superfluous. But, to take the view 
that some are uninformed, a few are: stronger union, more standardized 
eligibility rules, protection of the reputation of the school and its athletes 
through a higher code of ethics, and better recognition by a conference 
school.
The CARNEGIE TARTAN places itself on record as favoring this con
ference.
CAN YOU BEAT IT?
There are some "dumbbells in school who know not what the Varsity 
Clan recognition button is! Have you ever noticed that little Carnegie Tech 
C on the lapel of a coat? Thats the Varsity Clan recognition button, and 
it means that the wearer is a Letter Man. Let those "dumbbells hereafter 
understand.
We know this charge is O. K. because a fellow has saslced us what that 
button means, which vouches for these words.
When the final whistle of the game 
between Iota Sigma Delta and S. A. E. 
blew last Thursday night, it practi
cally closed what lias been probably 
one of the most successful season 
of Inter-Fraternity Dormatory Basket
ball. More teams were entered this 
year than have ever competed before 
and a greater interest has been shown 
in general. The forfeits were few in 
number compared with the total num
ber of games scliedlued and there 
were only three games in which the 
teams failed to get together for a 
decision. The hiring of regular ref
erees soon after the season started 
was a fine.idea, for it speeded up the 
games and assured the teams that 
they would get a square deal through 
a neutral official. Great credit is due 
the three men who handled the games 
and also officiciated in the Post-Season Series. Eligibility was a matter 
that was continually cropping up and 
this should be thoroughly gone into 
before next season. The'present rule 
is not wide enough in its scope to 
cover all possible contentions.
The offering of a new championship 
cup just before the opening of the 
Post-Season games added a great deal 
more spirit and interest in those fi
nal games. Scalp and Blade Frater
nity deserves the honor that goes with 
the offering of this trophy. The cham
pionship contests drew good crowds 
and the spirit ran high at every game. 
The method of each team playing 
each other team two games is a good 
one, for, as was shown by the results 
of the first week, it brought out the 
best team in the end.
Iota Sigma Delta in winning the new 
trophy for the first time had to stack 
up against some keen competition 
in both S. A. E. and Kappa Sigma. 
However in spite of the lightness of 
their.team, it was well balanced and 
had one of the big fundamentals of 
the gameteam work. Byerly at cen-1 
ter was a hard man to stop, while 
Wilson and Kenedy .with their fast 
floorwork andf accurate shooting were 
invaluable. fcritcher and I-Iedgren 
also deserve mention for their hard 
and consistant playing. S. A. E. had 
a strong combination with Alexander 
and Temmel doing the starring for 
them. In Bob Smith and Rhodes, 
Kappa Sigma lias two good players 
while Robertson and McCaw flashed 
up at times. All three teams were 
pretty evenly matched and there was 
no picking of the winner until the 
last geme was played. However it 
must be granted that Iota Sigma Del
ta has the edge, through the great 
showing made in their last game, 
when they defeated S. A. E. who were 
last years champions.
The officers, of the league along 
with the Schedule Committee should 
be mentioned for the efficient way in 
which they conducted the season. 
Many new suggesions were put into 
practice and most of the managers 
endeavored to cooperate in getting the 
games played off. On Thursday af
ternoon at 4:30, there will be a final 
meeting of the managers in the Sci
ence Club Room. Several important 
matters will be thrashed out and the 
annual election of officers will be held.
these questions. They are merely 
oifered as suggestions concerning the 
things in whiclii the public is inter
ested. We want our correspondents 
to present frankly and freely their 
views1 on what seems to them the 
most important, athletic problem of 
the hour.
CONDITIONS OF CONTEST
1. Only college undergraduates 
are eligible to compete.
2. Wrice your name (add a pen 
name, if you like, for publication) 
*and post office address with college
and class in the upper left-hand cor
ner of your letter.
3. All letters must be typewritten 
on one side of the paper only.
4. Limit your letter to 600 words 
of average length.
5. I^our letter, to be eligible,, 
must reach us on or before April 15, 
1922.
6. We reserve the right to pur
chase for publication desirable let
ters not winning prizes.
7. Unavailable letters will not be 
returned.
8. The staff of the Outlook will 
be judges.
Address all letters to
CONTEST EDITOR 
THE OUTLOOK COMPANY 
391 Fourth Avenue, New York.
The baseball, managers put in a good days work last Saturday in putting 
answer anyof up the wire' backstop. The mud was three inches deep. The wind was blow
VARSITY SPRING SPORTS 
SCHEDULE ATTRACTIVE
CHARACTER
BUILDING
Early association with a 
strong banking institution 
will not only inculcate thrift, 
but the kindly advice of its 
experienced officers will as
sist yo*j materially.
We (welcome the accounts 
of sincere men and women.
Mello n National Bank
A CUP FOR SECOND PLACE
At present there are two Intor-Fraterriity Cups: The Scalp nnd Blade
Trophy for first place, and the Lcete Cup. Tho Leete Cup is tho old one, 
formerly given for first place before tho advent of tho Buffalo Club prize.
Just because there is a new cup, is no roason Ayhy the old ono should 
be thrown into discard, and put out of tho running. It would nialco an Idoal 
prize for the team which follows up tho winners. Last year's winner should 
not hold this cup without competition for it. Why not permit S. A. E. and 
Kappa Sigma to play off their tie for second place, for this cup? A second 
prize would add interest to the races.
POSITIONS ARE AVAILABLE
 FOR PRESENT GRADS
(Continued From Page One.) 
about 800 firms with wnfch they cor
respond each year, calling attention 
to our graduating class and inquiring 
as to openings for technically trained 
men and women. The bureau makes 
the connection between me man 
and the firm, and aids the graduate 
in every possible way; but it re
mains for the man himself to sell 
his services. To do justice to him
self each man should begin to think 
about his work long before gradua
tion. Where possible the bureau ar
ranges a personal interview between 
the firm and the graduate, who will 
create a much pelter impression up
on his prospective employer if he has 
a definite policy regarding his work 
and his aims. Where personal inter
views are not possible, the bureau 
places, the graduate in correspond
ence with the prospective employer 
and follows up this service by let
ters to the man in charge of employ
ment at that particular plant.
Records are kept of all graduates 
who have been placed. These men 
are continually being placed in bet
ter positions where they themselves 
use their influence in aiding the bu
reau in pacing ~ other Carnegie Tech 
men. A short time ago, the bureau 
placed a Carnegie Tech graduate, of 
some ten years ago, who, being very 
capable and experienced, was being 
paid $4,000' a year/ in a better posi
tion where he received $6,000 a year. 
The bureau endeavors to deliver its 
services to: all Carngie Tech men 
whether graduating this year or fif
teen years ago.
THE NEW GYM
Did it ever occur to you knockers of tho new gymnasium plans THAT: 
No other sites are available, because of a lack of suitable foundation 
ground, and of suitable property rights?
The committee is sacrificing exterior appearances for interior?
The committee might have made a thorough and exhaustive study of all 
conditions?
Tfegr might agree with you, but circumstancos prevent their carrying out 
of their beliefs?
That after all they might know more than you do?
Stop hindering themlet them get busy and well have that now gymna
sium we have wanted so long. No committee can produce when obstacles 
are placed in their way on all sides. We want tho gym, and' wo need it 
the sooner the better!
RULES GOVERNING POS
SESSION OF THE SCALP
AND BLADE TROPHY
1. The winner shall be determined 
each year by the Inter-Fraternity-Inter-Donnitory basket ball committee.
2. A fraternity or domitory win
ning the cup twice shall hold perma
nent possession of the cup.
3. All Inscriptions or repairs on 
the cup shall be provided by Scalp 
and Blade.
4. In the event that a dormitory 
wins the cup the president of the 
dormitory shall be responsible for it, 
during the school year. At all other 
times, namely during the summer 
months, the cup shall be placed in 
charge of the Dean of Men.
F. J. BALTHASAR, 
President Carnegie Chapter of Scalp
and Blade.
ing a gale, and it was cold too. All of which reminds usthese managers 
are doing good work. Give them credit for it, they deserve it; not only for 
what they have done, but for what they will do in tho future. They are: 
Manager Bob Nation, Assistants Powrie, McCollum, Sclioorke, Brillhart, 
Schriver, Joynt, I-Ienninger, Richards, Canfield, Spitler, Reed, Craighead and 
Olsen.
ARE WE FAR OFF?
Someone has suggested that tho Plaid Screen select an All-Inter-Fraternlty and Dormitory Basket Ball Team. To do such is in vogue, and as we 
see no reason WHY NOT, here goes:
First Team. Second Team.
Everhart (Boss Hall)...........................F..........S. R. Wilson (Iota Sigma Delta)
Alexander (S. A. E.)...........................F............Allen Wierman (Beta Theta Pi)
Byerly (Iota Sigma Delta)..................C........................Andy Temmol (S. A. E.)
Kennedy (Iota Sigma Delta)..............G.....................................Hauser (S. A. E.)
'Bob Smith (Kappa Sigma)..............G...............................Zinn (Beta Theta PI)
If there are any objections, this ansAver goes, without any argument or 
fight whatever: "Maybe so. In other words, it is far from the contontions 
of this column that these selections are the besteveryone has a right to 
their opinions, yknow.
The schedule for spring varsity 
sports appeal's to bo an unusually at
tractive ono this year. Some of the 
strongest teams in this section, us 
well as teams in the East and West, 
will bo met by tlio baseball, tennis 
and track teams.
Many of the baseball game, espe
cially those played early in the soasou are to be played abroad to allow 
more time for the preparation of Car
negie Techs new baseball diamond 
over the cut. Thus, while the first 
game is played here, three trips 
abroad will take up all of April. Two 
of these trips will be invasions into 
West Virginia aud tho third one is a 
long trip East in which Swatlimore, 
Delaware, Lehigh and the Navy will 
be met. The majority of the remain
ing games will be played at home. 
Tho biggest of these is the Penn 
State-Carnegie Tech game of May 25, 
which will be played at Forbes Field.
The tennis schedule calls for 
twelve matches.
The match with Syracuse, to bo 
played June 6, is arousing considera
ble interest. The last time Syracuse 
played the Tartans was in 1920. That 
year Syracuse*, then champions of 
New. York State, were defeated by the 
Plnid ltacqueteers in a beautiful ex
hibition on the Tech courts, by the 
score of 5-1. Michigan University is 
also to come to Pittsburgh. In 1920, 
the same year that Carnegie over
whelmed Syraouse, Michigan, champ
ions of the Western Conference, took 
count over the Tartans at Ann Arbor. 
The Plaid will have to play real ten
nis to even up affairs when they come 
to Pittsburgh.
The track team gets its first action 
in tho Penn Relays. That big day is 
April 29. With the material now out, 
Carnegie should garner in its share 
of points. Another big meet is the 
one with Ohio State at Columbus. 
If tho Tartans can out-point the Buck
eye boys It will be quite a feather to 
stick in thoir hat.
PROSPECTS GOOD FOR 
COMING BASEBALL SEASON
From all indications tho basoball 
team of Carnegie Tech is going to 
have a fine season. Tho candidates 
have been working out for tho last 
five weeks and In splto of the unfa
vorable weather conditions, are all 
in good slmpo. Witu tno exception 
of short stop and ono outfield job. 
all positions will bo tilled by men 
from last years team. Coach Kirk
patrick is well pleased with tlio pro
gress made and expects to have a 
hard hitting combination.
Three pitchers arp left from last 
year in Cappo, McCaw and Warrick 
who are fast getting into shape. A1 
Irwin will probably handle tho catch
ers position while the Doherty broth
ers will cavort around tho infield. 
Captain Durkin and Red Goddou play 
the outfield. Goddeu can play any 
position on tho diamond aud will un
doubtedly be used behind the bat at 
times. Besides these, tliero are sev
eral uew men who are showing up 
well.
There will be a Reserve team be
side the varsity so there will be 
lots of chance for men to play base
ball.
If the weather permits, practice on 
the uew field will begin this week.
The first game of the season will 
be with Westminster, Saturday after
noon.
Lets all go out and holpi Carnegie 
start the season with a victory.
WORK ON BASEBALL FIELD 
BEING RUSHED FOR 
WESTMINSTER GAME HERE
Work is being rushed on tho base
ball field In order to have it ready for 
tho gamo with Westminster next Sat
urday. Tho in field has been sodded 
and rolled, and a backstop has beon 
erected. The outfield is in terrible 
condition but a tractor has boon work
ing on It and It Is hopod that It will 
he in shape by Saturday.
Thoro will bo no fence around tho
SCALP AND BLADE 
TO PRESENT CUP
Iota Sigma Delta to Get New 
Loving Cup From 
Buffalo Men
Have You Picked Your Easter Shoes ?
The newest oxfords are all hereplain or fancy 
for dross, for business, for sport. Prloc rango $5 
to $12.
Men like the clean cut lines of STETSON 
OXFORDS. The gonoral noatnoss appeals 
to men who "do things"men who consider 
stylo nnd comfort when they buy shoes.
See them In our Mens Sales Room.
P. Ludebuehl & Son
Penn nnd Frankstown East Liberty
Now that the finals of the IntorFrat-Dorm Basketball League games 
have boon played and the winners 
decidod, tho Scalp and Blado are to 
present to the Iota Sigma Delta Fra
ternity the cup, which the Buffalo 
men have donated for this purpose. 
Tho presentation will bo at Gonoral 
Assembly today, in tho Music Hall.
This Is the first act that the Scalp 
and Blade have done that lias been 
directly before the students eyes and 
no doubt many of {them do not know 
just what tho organization is, so tlio 
following short sketch may help to 
clear up this point.
It was founded about 1S55 in Cor
nell by Howard O. Cobb, as an hon
orary fraternity of the most active 
college men from Buffalo, aud from 
thoro spread rapidly to many other 
colleges, among which are Hobart, 
Colgate, Columbia, Harvard, Yale, 
Massachusetts Tech, Universities of 
Illinois, Pennsylvania, Buffalo, Rennsalear Poly Tech, Union, Michigan 
etc.
The chapter at Carnegie was in
stalled a year ago with tho aim of 
uniting tho mon from Buffalo and to 
encourage a moro brotherly feeling 
and interest among them; to provide 
social entertainment, amusement and 
co-operation between the members in 
the different courses they are pur
suing; to promote fair dealing busi
ness principles and act as a stimulus 
in gotting graduates oC preparatory 
schools in Buffalo Interested In a col
lege oducatlon. Tho aims cover ath
letic and non-athletlc activities and 
tend to unite tho Buffalo men into a 
strong body of tho best from that city 
attending colleges or universities. 
It is tho intention of the Carnogio 
Chapter to do something each year 
which will bo of benefit to all tho 
school and prove that tho organiza
tion In truly composed ol! live wires.
Hold, but bleachers will bo put up 
whon warm woathor sots In and ovorytlilng will ho dono to maleo tho field 
as good a substituto for tho regular 
field ini possible.
CoUuublu has La Icon stops to malto 
all tho men who have won varsity or 
claxM Insignia tu wejir these Insignia 
about tho campus. A fooling of l'alno 
modesty has hitherto kept tho Vnr* 
slty C In tho background.
B. K. Elliott Company'
IMPORTERS AND MANUFACTURERS
Drawing Materials and Surveying Instruments, Blue Print Papers and Cloths, 
Artists Materials, Optical Goods.
Photographic Supplies and Otimeras.
.Highest grade developing and printing.
126 SIXTH STREET (Opposite Alvin Theater) PITTSBURGH
Knocking is a compensation for inferiority. 
Dont give yourselves away, fellows!
MORE ASSISTANT MANAGERS
NEEDED FOR SPRING SPORTS
Activities have started in Carnegies 
spring sports. This means, plenty of 
work not only for the teams but also 
for the managers and their assistants.
The baseball season will be opened 
here this Saturday in a game with 
Westminster. The temporary field is 
being prepared, with the assistant 
managers working hard to get it in 
condition for the game. There are 
quite a few new men out as assistant 
managers, but not enough considering, 
the amount of work to be done this 
year. Any Plebe interested should 
see Manager Nation.
Manager Byler of the track squad 
is also in need of more assistants. 
The men out at present are doing 
good work, but wiien the season
starts there will be a need for more. 
Plebes aro urged to come out now and 
get acquainted with the worlc.
Work on the tennis courts will start 
as soon as the weather and their con
dition permits. A few men have been 
assigned work but there will be plen
ty more to be done. Watch the 
courts and when work is started go 
down and report to the manager or 
one of the first assistants.
Instructors in any of the State 
Normal schools of Nebraska will be 
denied leave of absence to study or 
attend Columbia, Chicago and North
western Universities or any other ed
ucational institution that is known to 
permit cigarette smoking among 
women. This is done in an effort to 
discourage the tobacco habit.
Varsity Spring Sports Schedule
Saturday, April 8thWestminster ........................BaseballAt Home.
Wednesday,  12thMarshall ............................BaseballHuntington, W. Va.
13thMarshall ............................BaseballHuntington, W. Va.
14thWest Virginia Wesleyan.BaseballBuckhanan, W. Va. 
15thWest Virginia Wesleyan.BaseballBuckhanan, W. Va.
21stW. Va. University ..........BaseballMorgantown, W.Va.
22ndW. Va. University ..........BaseballMorgantown, W.Va,
26thSwarthmore College ----BaseballSwarthmore, Pa.
27thDelaware ...........................BaseballNewark, N. J.
 28thPending ............................BaseballAway.
 28tliLehigh ..............................Tennis At Home.
" 29thPenn Relays....................Track Philadelphia, Pa.
 29thNavy ...................................BaseballAnnapolis, Md.
May 4thBucknell ............................BaseballAt Home.
5thWash-Jeff ..........................Tennis At Home.
6tliW. Va. University.......Tennis At Home.
Thursday,
Friday,
Saturday,
Friday,
Saturday,
Wednesday,
Thursday,
Friday,
Friday,
Saturday,
Saturday,
Thursday,
Friday,
Saturday,
Saturday,
Wednesday,
Thursday,
Saturday,
Saturday,
Tuesday,
Thursday,
Friday,
Saturday,
Saturday,
Monday,
Wednesday,
Thursday,
Friday,
Friday,
Saturday,
Saturday,
Tuesday,
Tuesday,
Thursday,
Thursday,
Saturday,
Monday,
Tuesday,
Friday,
6tliInterscliolastic
10thBethany .........
11thGrove City ...,
13 thJuniata ............
13thOhio State .... 
16thU. of Mich...
........Track At Home.
 Tennis Bethany, W. Va,
 BaseballAt Homo.
.........BaseballAt Homo.
........Track Columbus, Ohio.
 Tennis Ann Arbor, Midi.
18tliJuniata ..............................BaseballJuniata,_ Pa,
19thBucknell ............................BaseballLewlshurg, Pa.
20thWestminster ...................Track Away,
20thPenn State ........................BaseballStat, Collogo, Pa,
22ndW. Va. University...........BaseballAt Home,
24thWash-Jeff .........................Tennis Washington, Pa.
25thPenn State ........................BaseballFORHES FIELD
 26thBethany ...........................BaseballAt Home.
 26thBucknell ........................Tennis At Home.
 27thGrove City ......................BaseballGrove City, Pa.
 27thW. Va. University..........Track At Home.
 30thBethany ..........................BaseballBethany, W. Va.
 30thBethany ...........................Tennis At Home.
June 1stPittsburgh Collegians BaseballAt Home.
 1stMarietta College ...............Tennis At Home.
 3rdW. Va. University............Tennis Morgantown, W.Va.
5thAllegheny .........................Tennis At Home.
" 6thSyracuse University........Tennis At Home.
 9thAllegheny .........................Tennis Meadville, Pa.
The subtle something that 
makes your college different 
from any other, and dearer 
to you, than all the rest com
bined. In cigarettes, its the 
signal success that makes so 
many college men of discrim
ination prefer Melachrino, 
the one cigarette sold the 
world over.
Remember that Melachrino is a master 
blend of the finest Turkish Tobaccos 
as originated by Miltiades Melachrino. 
Egyptian cigarettes are simply those 
that originated 11 Egypt. But the to
bacco is what you want to know about 
 and if it's Melachrino  it's right
cMeiachrinoTiie Cigarette Elect of All Nations"

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, APRIL 5, 1922
ALUMNI PAGE
MARGARET MORRISON ALUMNAETECHNICAL JOURNAL FOR
SALE ON CAMPUS TODAYDANCE AND PARTY 
HELD BY ALUMNI
CARNEGIE TECH CLAN TO BE 
ORGANIZEDINLOSANGELES
Less than 1 per cent of Americans 
are college graduates, but this 1 per 
cent has furnished:
55 per cent of our presidents.
54 per cent of our vice presidents.
47 per cent of our speakers of the 
House.
36 per cent of our members of Con
gress.
61 per cent of our Secretaries of 
State.
67 per cent of our Attorney Gen
erals.
69 per cent of our judges of the 
Supreme Court.
Over 50 per cent of the distinguish
ed people of the United States.
A prominent Pittsburgh manufac! turing concern will have a steady 
year round position open June 1st for 
a graduate woman chemist, straight 
analytical work, in a modern wellequipped laboratory, located in the 
central part of the cityone who has 
a practical knowledge of mineral oils, 
fatty oils and their compounds.
Apply by letter, stating age, experi
ence and salary expected. Address P. 
L., this paper.Adv.
CLAN NEWS(Continued From Page One.) 
ment In tho Held of prime mover 1L 
tho Invention of the compound DIeael 
englno. TCNC 11, Palomo, of the Senidr Mechanical uectjon, 1 the author 
of a vory Interesting deBcription and 
dlBcuaaion of this Invention of Mr. 
Sperry. Several Indicator diagrams 
are reproduced, together with views 
of the engine and a complete expla
nation. of its operation and advan
tages.
Prof. Dibble of the College of Indus
tries ban prepared a description of 
the results of tests carried on in the 
College of Industries to determine the 
best materials for a joining compound 
for. vitrified clay pipes. This article 
TN illustrated with pictures of the 
testa and with a table showing tho 
results of the tests.
Mr. Paul W. Emmel, a graduate of 
the College of Engineering, who is 
now with tlio' Collins Service, and is 
editor of their Business Forcast, has 
contributed an article on Business 
Cycles. Tho meaning of the various 
fluctuations in the business curve is 
briefly discussed and the cause and 
effect of such fluctuations, are ex
plained.
YOUNGSTOWN CLANto their fullest extent so it is up to 
ua to do our part. A definite program 
will be announced later for this meet
ing.
The Alumni Office has just received 
a letter from Mrs. Inez Peacock Pille, 
Margaret Morrison graduate '17, giv
ing the names of other Margaret Mor
rison graduates who are desirous of 
organizing a Margaret Morrison Clan 
in Los Angeles. The Margaret Morri
son Alumnae will get together in 
about two weeks for their meeting 
and expect at this time to organize a 
clan.
There are quite a few men grad
uates in. Los Angeles and we hope 
they will take up this work and get 
together for organization purposes. 
In order to get things started the 
Alumni Office would be glad to have 
all former students and graduates, 
both men and women, get in touch 
as soon as  possible with Mrs. Inez 
Pille, 865 East Fifty-first street, Los 
Angeles, California. The following is 
a complete list of Carnegie graduates 
residing in California, according to 
the files in the Alumni Office: 
California.
Ruby !C. Campbell, P., 19, 820 Marguerita street, Alhambra.
George R. Watson, I. 17, Box 18, R.
F. D. No. 3, Bakersfield.
David B. Brown, I., 10, 2956 Cali
fornia avenue, Berkley.
E. T. Johnston, I., 501 Orange street, 
Coronado.
Frank I. Lawson, E. 20, Mt. Shasta 
Power Company, Pit River No. 1, Fall 
River Mills.
I-Ierman E. Loeffler, I. 16, 453 West 
California avenue, Glendale.
William J. Reilly, E. 21, 1900 North 
street, Andrews Place, Hollywood.
Charles M. Crawford, E. 13, 111 
Fourth street, Los Angeles.
Ralph'M. Crosby, A. 21, 1533% Tem
ple street, Los Angeles.
Mrs. Mary McKee Kilton, M. 09, 
331 Vendonia street, Los Angeles.
Frederick H. Kindl, E. 12, 2201 Min
eral avenue, Los Angeles.
Addison A. Maukel, E. 21, care Y. 
M. C. A., Los Angeles.
Reginald F. Phillips, E. 12, 1228 
Ingraham avenue, Los Angeles.
Mrs. Inez Peacock Pille, M. 17, 865 
East Fifty-first street, Los Angeles.
Mrs. Hazel Thomas Rhodes, M. 16, 
1210 West Seventy-sixth street, Los 
Angeles.
John P. SteAvard, E. 13, R. F. D. No. 
12, Box 493, Los . Angeles.
Michael J. Thomas, I. 21, 126 West 
Twenty-fifth street, Los Angeles.
Mrs. Ida Richter Welfer, M. 18, 
745% Towne avenue, Los Angeles.
Fred M. Sickler, I. 10, Pala.
Cloyde D. Dalzell, A. 21, 299 Gar
field avenue, Pasadena.
Opal Rinehart, M., Reinway 15, 
Pasadena.
Otillie K. Stock, M. 12, 1930 Edgewood Drive, South Pasadena.
Mrs. Elizabeth Dearing Wharton, 
M. 17, 2239 Garvin street, Richmond.
Arleigh B. Williamson, A. 20, 2609 
F street, Sacramento.
Mrs. Ermal Pruyne Ralston, M. 17, 
463 Magnolia avenue, San Bernardino.
Louis M. Bloch, E. 20, 1663 Fifth 
street, San Diego.
H. P. Fowler, E., 546 Market street, 
San Francisco.
David G. Marsh, E. 15, 1030 Post 
street, San Francisco.
Edward R. Rhodes, E., care Marine 
Department, Standard Oil Company,
Joseph S. Wilson, E.09, careAmerSan Francisco.
ican Rolling Mill Company, Tenth and 
Bryant streets, San Francisco.
Frederic E. Foster, E. 'OS, Box 638, 
Santa Maria.
Seventy-Five Couples Attend; 
Maggio Furnishes Music; 
Play is PresentedTlDE-WATER VIRGINIA CLAN
Dancing
Every Saturday, 9 P. M. 
THE 
EITTENHOUSE 
Giles. Couple, $2.20.
Direction 
The Sextons
JUNIOR CLASSES HOLD BANQUET
(Continued From Page One.) 
his speech terminated in an inspir
ing song which will be remembered 
by every ono present. Captain 
iSteidle of the College of Engineering, 
was the final speaker and he more 
than impressed the Juniors by his 
remarks.
The committee in charge of the 
banquet were: Clifford Lake, chair
man; Hugh Sprinkle, Albert Zelt, 
John C. Hall am, John D. Evans, 
Anthony Tarrmina, Marshall S. 
Gare and Edward Geary. They did 
their utmost in making the banquet 
a success and every Junior will 
agree that It was a success.
The following, taken from the pro
gram was symbolic of the, entire 
banquet; "Let us celebrate to the 
fullest extent, and leave, realizing 
that we are each an integral part 
of a great and a greatly beloved 
school."
TECH SHOE REPAIR
We use the 
Goodyear Welt System 
4523 FORBES ST.
Oakland Savings 
& Trust Co.
Member Federal 
Reserve System
Capital......................$200,000.00
Surplus and Undivided
Profits...................$300,000.00
Deposits, Over - - $4,000,000.00 
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES 
FOR RENT
William T. Tllden, II.. worlds ten
nis champion, will coach the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania tennis team this 
BonRon. He' is a graduate of tlml uni
versity and was formerly Intercolle
giate champion.There are 588 colleges and univer
sities In the United States at which 
the number of students in attend
ance is well ovor 375,000. The total 
vaulntion of tho property of these in
stitu Ions, including grounds, dormi
tories, buildings and equipment is 
placed at 1,004,909,784. It took a trifle 
over thirty times that sum to teach 
Germany tlio meaning of honor and 
respect for tho right of others.
O. K. RESTAURANT
A. WALTER, Propr. 
116 OAKLAND AVENUE
Yvonne: "You have such a vacant 
expression.
All Gone: "Pardon me. But I just 
cant keep my mind off you.FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST, 
SCIENTIST 
Clyde Street, Pittsburgh. 
SUNDAY SERVICES 
11 A. M. 8 P. M.
Sunday School...............11 A. M.
Wednesday Evening 
Service ...........................8 to 9
Stud on ta, to got a rollatile fountain 
pon, Eversharp pencil, "Tocli" recog
nition or Heal pin, brief case, nchool 
ring, personal ptatlonery, etc., should 
call at theSinger Penn and Gift 
Shop in Jenkins Arcado.
TECH STATIONER 
NEWS, CIGARS, CANDY, ETC. 
WATERMAN, MOORE, PARKER, 
CONKLIN FOUNTAIN PENSC. M. Stauft
3702 FORRES STREET
iiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiw
Tech Barber Shop | 
Nearest to Tech 
Cor. Craig and Forbes 
| Fred Fargel, Proprietor | 
Nearest and Best 
Laundry Agency.
jiniiwniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!gi[iiiH!i!iiii.'i!irHiiiiiniiiii;iDniiii)iiuiii!!ininiiiDiiimiaEXCHANGES
BELLEFI ELD 
PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH 
"The Church of Friendly People 
Rev. Robert MacGowan, D.D., 
Minister.
Sabbath School........... 9:45 A.M.
Morning Service..........11:00 A.M.
Christian Endeavor.. 7:00P.M.
Evening Service......... 8:00 P.M.
All Tech students will receive 
a cordial welcome here.
As he approached the baptismal 
font, bearing an infant on each arm, 
it was plain to see that he was quite 
intoxicated. Quite sloppy in fact. 
The minister asked:
"Girls or boys?.
"One of eachfifty-fifty.
And the proposed names.
"Steak n Kidney.
And as they hustled him quickly 
out of the church he explained rath
er thickly that he had meant "Kate 
and Sidney.The Technique.
MURADCampus Week
is COMING
DATES MAY 25,26 27 
PLAN TO COME
THE TCARNGH INWDAETTE
Every day MURADS arc. held 
higher in the estimation of the men 
who smoke them. 
They are the standard of Taste. 
They never disappointnever 
failnever change 
They are 100% pure Turkish to
baccoof the finest varieties grown. 
You are proud to smoke them 
in any companyon any occasion. 
They are the largest selling highgrade cigarette in the world. 
The cigarette smokers of America 
DO prefer Quality to Quantity.
RENTING A SPECIALTY 
Why worry about 
c I o th e s for the next 
party? Let the outfitters 
rig you out from head to 
foot.
Whittington 
Dress Suit Co.
JENKINS ARCADE
STANDING ROOM ONLY
Professor: "This lecture is apt to 
be somewhat embarrassing. If any 
men or women care to leave they 
may.
Student in back of the room: "Pro
fessor, can I invite some of my 
friends ?Octopus.Directory of Carnegie Clans
NO GREATER LOVE!
"Cant you give me any proof that 
you really love me and want to marry 
me?"
"Well, I found out that my engage
ment ring was cut glass and havent 
ever said anything about it.Iowa 
Frivol.
AKRONiSecretary, A. C. Sprague, R. F. D. No. 24, South Akron, O. 
BOSTONSecretary, Mary Wight, Harris Hall, Deaconess Road. 
BUFFALOSecretary, W. H. Rieger, Sizer Forge (Dompany. 
CHICAGOSecretary, J. J. Kennedy, 3748 Wrightwood Avenue. 
CINCINNATI-Secretary, Mary Zarobsky, 25 Bast Ninth Street. 
CLEVELANDSecretary, Merten G. Kingsley, 17817 Cannon Ave. 
DAYTONSecretary, L. H. Siegler, 2505 West Riverview Avenue. 
DETROITSecretary, H. A. Neal, care Michigan Steel Castings Co. 
ERIESecretary, H. A. Weber, 933 East Sixth Street. 
HARRISBURG-Secretary, Ritchie Lawric, 206 Market Street. 
HARTFORDSecretary, L. M. Bloch, 304 Garden Avenue. 
HUNTINGTONSecretary, J. F. De Young, 808 Second St., E. 
JOHNSTOWNActing, Secretary, R, W. Wallace, 041 Horner St. 
LOS ANGELESActing Secretary, Mrs. Inez Peacock Pillc, 865 East 
Fifty-first Street, Los Angeles, California.
MONONGAIIJjlLA VALLEYSecretary, C. A. Stone, 121 Washing
ton Avenue, Charleroi, Pa.
NEW YORKSecretary, J. A. Cameron, 431 Riverside Drive. 
NORFOLKSecretary, W. H. Sands, Bank of Commerce Building. 
PHILADELPHIAPresident, L. E. Exline, care Fidelity & Deposit 
Company of Maryland, 505 Real Estate Trust Building. 
PITTSBURGHSecretary, J. W. Batman, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology.
ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zeller, 1946 Railway Exchange 
Building.
WASHINGTONSecretary, Herbert W. Haller, 450 Munsey Bldg. 
YOUNGSTOWNSecretary, W. S. Scott 65 East Earl Avenue.
M. M,. Clan Secretary, Elizabeth Stevenson. 722 Bryson Street. 
WATCH THE CLAN COLUMN EVERY W^EK
mom
Newest Creation
Ex. A. E. F. CodtieYou say youve 
been on a sea voyage?
Coolie Adventurer  Yeah, been 
drifting around on the marcel waves.
Boston Boy: May I kiss you?
She: You forget yourself.
B. B.: Please, may I ldss you?-
Plioenix.
Upperclassmen at the University 
of Utah have adopted a special cam
pus dress. The Seniors will appear 
from now on with "regular wild west 
cowboy hats aud will wear decorative 
knit vests. The Juniors have selected 
a real "hard time costume with 
khaki shirts and corduroy pants. ,
Reppermint fla^ 
vored chewing gum 
with Peppermint 
Sugar Coating.
Sugar jacket 
melts in your . 
mouth, leaving / 
the deliciously S 
flavored gum B 
center to aid | 
digestion, % 
brighten teeth \ 
and loothe \ month and throat.
BASEL
The co-eds at the University of 
Pennsylvania are planning to start a 
paper managed by the damsels only. 
They have hopes of making it a 
daily.
WASELT
