You've seen it in Cosmo, you've seen it \nVogue..&n now, the Tartan Love Quiz See Features7 -=/L Also in Features...Personality Profiles t,
7
>v
The Tartan
Volume 81, Issue 16Carnegie Mellon UniversityFebruary 10,1987
Freshman Charged in Homocide
Th Tearrt nar $ Th eBy DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor
A CMU freshman was arrested early Monday morning in the stabbing 
death of a 20-year-old Robert Morris student. 18-year-old Darrell Van 
Mastrigt, an early admissions music major, was arrested and charged 
with Criminal Homocide at 6:20 am yesterday at County Police 
Headquarters, where he had voluntarily gone to offer information about 
the victim.
Jeanne Goldberg, of Bartlett Street in Squirrel Hill, was found at 1 
pm Sunday in the Fairview Grove of South Park, less than a mile from 
Van Mastrigt's parents' home. Her body was nude from the waist down 
and had been stabbed 20 times in the chest and neck. She had reportedly 
met Van Mastrigt Saturday night in the Tartan Grill, and left with him 
to attend a fraternity party, believed to be ATA. They left early Sunday 
morning. County Homocide Inspector Floyd Neveling said of the 
actions that took place in South Park "we know drinking was 
involved...we do not believe there was a struggle." The victim's car, a 
1984 light blue Nissan Stanza belonging to her mother, was found 
early Monday morning near Schlag, where Van Mastrigt lived.
Van Mastrigt is being held in the County Jail without bond. A 
hearing will be set in 3-10 days, pending the Coroner's decision as to 
whether or not a crime occurred and Van Mastrigt can be charged. Lab 
results will be back in "a week to 10 days," which will show evidence 
of any alcohol or drugs in the body, as well as proof of sexual assault 
However, Neveling feels "we [the prosecution] have a very strong case."
Jeanne Goldberg, a student at Robert Morris, was found 
stabbed to death in South Park Sunday afternoon.
Fire and Flood in the UCC Crash Computers, Raise Temperatures
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor 
Two incidents that occurred in the UCC 
last week brought down all computer 
systems, leaving users without computing 
capabilities for a total of about 72 hours.
At 4:12 am last Sundaa piece of 
switchgear in the UCC switchgear room 
(located on the A-level) began to smoke. 
This set off the smoke detector, which in 
turn notified the Pittsburgh Fire Department 
The building was evacuated and two 
electricians from Physical Plant were called 
in. When one of them attempted to de
energize the switch, it exploded, and all 
power for the UCC went out 
The electrician was "shaken up," according 
to Neil Binstock, Director of Facilities and 
Administration for Physical Plant. However, 
"no electricity traveled through his body." 
He was transported to West Penn Hospital to 
be checked.
Binstock showed up around 5:30 am. He 
and VP for Business Affairs Fred Rogers, 
who arrived about an hour later, assembled a 
response team of engineers from Physical 
Plant and Westinghouse, as well as other 
specialists, to deal with the situation. In 
addition, Binstock established a "status 
hotline" with updated messages on his 
answering machine.
The building suffered very little structural 
damage: the extent of fire damage to the 
electrical equipment was, in Bistock's view, 
"minimal." He estimated damage to be 
around $50,000.
All computer systems were down, and the 
UCC was closed For the remainder of 
Sunday and Monday. Three 800-amp 
breakers were trucked in Monday morning 
at 9 and repair work was completed by 9 that 
night. The computer systems came back
phou) by Andy Gillespie
A broken valve on a now-collared pipe (above) supplying the AC system 
with coolant and a power supply switch that exploded when turned off 
brought down all computer systems last week. Causes of both incidents 
are still under investigation.
up, and the building was re-opened by 
Tuesday morning.
Cause of the fire and explosion is still 
unknown, although Binstock claimed it was 
"obviously equipment failure."
Friday morning at 6:11 am, a flood on the 
A-level of the UCC was reported to Campus 
Security. A valve on a pipe supplying the 
air conditioning system with glycol, a 
cooling agent had broken, draining the 
entire contents of the system, approximately 
440 gallons. Physical Plant responded by 
clamping the pipe with a metal collar and 
ventilating the lower levels of the building, 
which were cordoned off. The glycol, which 
can be toxic "in a concentrated dose" but 
wasn't in this instance, was pumped back
into drums to be reused. All computer 
systems went down again, although the 
main PC cluster and most of the building 
remained open without air conditioning.
By 9:25 pm, the AC system had been 
refilled with glycol, and the work was, 
according to Binstock, "totally finished, 2- 
1/2 hours ahead of schedule." Shortly 
afterwards, computer systems came back up, 
beginning with Vax-B's reappearance at 
9:49. By 2 am, Vax-A, B, and D, all Tops 
systems, the stage machine, SUPA, and file 
servers for Andrew were running again.
Binstock had no comment on the specific 
cause of the valve breakage, saying it was 
still under investigation and there were "all 
sorts of possibilities."
Carnegie Mellon 
invests $650,000 in NeXT Corp.
By USA McANANY 
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Carnegie Mellon has announced a 
$650,000 investment in NeXT 
Corporation. In addition, the 
University's Senior Vice President J. 
Patrick Crecine will sit on NeXTs 
Board of Directors. Joining Carnegie 
Mellon in the investment are Stanford 
University, which also invested 
$650,000 and Texas billionaire H. 
Ross Perot, who invested $20 million 
to gain a 16 percent concern in NeXT, 
the combined $1.3 million invested by 
Stanford and Carnegie Mellon 
constitue a one percent interest in the 
corporation.
Steven Jobs founded NeXT when he 
was ousted from Apple Computer after 
a power struggle with president John 
Sculley. From its inception, Jobs' new 
company has targeted higher education 
as its specific market NeXT seeks to 
produce high-powered, low-cost 
computers tailor-made to suit the needs 
of students and faculty members.
Jobs set the value of NeXT at $126 
million after the investments by Perot 
and the two universities. This is a 
considerable amount for a company 
that does not currently have any 
products on the market. Despite this 
fact, Crecine does not see the 
investment as a financial risk. "We 
have a lot of investments in venture 
capital of which this is only one. We 
own stock in half a dozen or so 
companies that are essentially start-up 
companies." The university pursued 
this investment because it felt that it 
would be highly profitable. Perots 
considerable commitment is a vote of 
confidence for the future viability of 
the fledgling corporation.
Carnegie Mellon wait through the 
same reviewing or "due diligence" 
process that Ross Perot did before 
putting up any money. He says that 
the "quality" of the investments made 
by Perot and the two universities are 
identical. In addition to examining the 
future business plans of the 
corporation, Crecine emphasizes, 
"There are a couple of us in the 
University who know a lot about what 
NeXT is doing technologically."
Crecines role on the Board of 
Directors will be that of a 
representative of higher education to 
NeXT. He does not see that it will 
substantially change the current 
relationship between the University 
and Jobs' company.
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanFebruary 10, 1987
Cosmonauts Take Off 
for Soviet Space Lab
Two cosmonauts have blasted off, in the 
world's first manned space launch since July. 
The spacemen are expected to spend at least 
six months on board an orbiting Soviet 
space lab. They reportedly will be joined this 
summer by a joint Soviet-Syrian crew.
Reagan Still Seeking 
Congressional OK on 
Contra Funds
The Reagan administration, trying to look 
beyond the Iran-Contra arms scandal, is 
renewing appeals to Congress to continue 
funding for the Nicaraguan rebels. A key 
administration official claims the Contras 
can win. In testimony before the Senate 
Foreign Relations Committee yesterday, 
Assistant Secretary of State Elliott Abrams 
said the rebels can achieve victory if the 
U.S. continues to provide military aid.
Waite Spotted in 
Beirut
The Anglican Church says it's heard 
nothing to confirm Envoy Terry Waite's 
whereabouts. Two taxi drivers claim they 
saw Waite Thursday walking through a 
Beirut suburb. Waite has been missing for 
more than two weeks and reported to be a 
hostage. An unconfirmed West German 
newspaper report said Waite had been 
critically wounded while trying to escape his 
kidnappers.
David and Maddy: 
Television's Favorite 
Couple
A broadcasting group has selected 
"Moonlighting" duo Bruce Willis and Cybil 
Shepherd as its favorite couple. The award as 
man and woman of the year will be presented 
by the Hollywood Radio and Television 
Society at an awards dinner next month. The 
dinner will also honor the best commercials, 
chosen from more than five-thousand entries 
from 60 countries.
Groundhogs and 
Swimsuits: The First 
Signs of Spring
(BALTIMORE, MARYLAND) What do 
"Punxsutawnry Phil," spring training and 
Sports Illustrated's Swimsuit Issue have in 
common?
Well, according to Peter VanPoppel of 
Maryland News Distributing, they are all 
harbingers of spring.
VanPoppel's company handles most of the 
magazine distribution in central Maryland, 
and he says its that time again, time for the 
annual SI Swimsuit Issue, and that means a 
little extra load for his trucks.
VanPoppel says his company usually 
distributes about 2,000 copies of the 
magazine, but for the swimsuit issue its 
19.500.
Unemployment Rates 
Hold Steady
No change in the nation's unemployment 
rate in the first month of the year. The rate 
was the same in January as it was in 
December, 6.7%. The number of people 
with jobs usually goes down this time of 
year, because many seasonal workers are laid 
off, but last month 350,000 Americans 
found work, mostly in the service industry. 
The number of manufacturing jobs held 
steady.
GM Reports 70% 
Earnings Drop
Thousands of General Motors workers will 
miss out on profit-sharing payments this 
time around. The automaker says they'll be 
no 1986 payout because of a nearly 70% 
drop in fourth-quarter earnings. GM says it'll 
trim executive bonuses, but some workers 
are angry that Chairman Roger Smith and 
other executives will still get bonuses.
States Try to Block 
Self-Initiated Salary 
Increases in Federal 
Officials
State lawmakers, backed by consumer 
advocate Ralph Nader, are revising a nearly 
200 year old proposal designed to keep 
federal lawmakers from giving themselves a 
pay raise. The proposed Constitutional 
Amendment, first put forth by founding 
father James Madison, would bar pay raises 
until after a new election. Eighteen states 
have already approved the Amendment, some 
of them as long ago as 1789.
NRC Tries to 
Simplify Nuclear 
Power Plant 
Openings
At least one member of Congress is up in 
arms over a proposal by the staff of the 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission, one that 
would make it easier for nuclear power 
plants to go into service. The proposal 
would allow full liscensing of plants despite 
opposition from state and local officials. 
Massachusetts Democrat Edward Markey 
calls the proposition an outrage. He says it's 
a "slap in the face" for officials charged with 
protecting the health and safety of their 
citizens.
Newsweek Sued for 
$20 Million
Southern Air Transport has slapped 
Newsweek magazine with a $20 million 
lawsuit. The trouble stems from a 
Newsweek article about cocaine smuggling 
and the Nicaraguan rebels. The suit charges 
the Newsweek article suggested the Miamibased airline had been fingered by a convicted 
drug smuggler and another man accused of 
drug smuggling. Newsweek has yet to 
comment.
Condoms' 
Effectiveness Against 
AIDS Questioned
Researchers say abstinence is the only 
guarantee against the sexual spread of Aids. 
Authors of a Miami University study say 
condoms apparently can lessen the chance of 
getting the disease, but do not provide 100% 
protection. Their study appears in The 
Journal of the American Medical 
Association.
Guaranteed College 
Admission Offered 
by Florida High 
School
A private highschool in Hollywood, 
Florida, is putting its money where its 
mouth is. Sheridan Hills Christian School is 
guaranteeing its students college admission. 
The school says if a student doesn't win 
acceptance, it'll shell out up to $2,000 to get 
the students tutorial help. The offer started 
out with this year's freshman class.
Casey Appoints New 
Head of PennDOT
(HARRISBURG) Governor Robert Casey 
has named a 20 year state government 
veteran to head the State Department of 
Transportation.
Casey nominated Howard Yerusalim to 
head the department that oversees highway 
building and mass-transit funding.
Yerusalim's appointment must be 
confirmed by a two-thirds vote of the Senate.
The nominee has served as acting secretary 
of the department since Casey took office 
January 20th. The 47 year old Harrisburg 
resident will be paid $65,000 a year.
Casey said Yerusalim was picked partly for 
the sake of continuing Penndot's progress. 
He has been with Penndot for 20 years and 
served the department as Deputy Secretary
for Administration since 1983.
News blurbs appear courtesy of The Associated Press
Music Seminar 
Offered Feb. 
13, 15 in CFA
PITTSBURGH  Music composition 
students are invited to audit a seminar on 
commercial music composition being 
sponsored by Carnegie Mellon Universitys 
Department of Music, Feb. 13 and 15, in the 
College of Fine Arts.
Topics to be covered during the seminar 
include how to find a job composing 
commercial music, recording studios, union 
problems, recording sessions, dubbing 
sessions, kinds of work available, and the 
comparative aesthetics for composers of 
different types of film and television.
Songwriter Stephen Cohn of Studio City, 
CA, will present the seminar. He has 
composed for films and television shows 
including "The Choice," "Under the 
Rainbow" and "Hart to Hart," as well as for 
television commercials. As a 
singer/songwriter, he has had albums of his 
work produced through Motown and MCA. 
More than 40 of his songs have been 
recorded on labels including A&M, Wamer 
Brothers, Motown, MCA, Columbia and 
Janus. He received his B.S. in music from 
California State, Northridge, and did graduate 
studies in composition and musicology at 
the University of California, Los Angeles.
Seminar sessions are scheduled for 7-10 
p.m., Friday, Feb. 13, and 2-4 p.m. and 7-
10 p.m., Sunday, Feb. 15, at locations to be 
announced. The auditing fee of $30 is 
payable at the door.
To register or obtain more information, 
call Carnegie Mellon's Department of Music 
at 268-2372. The deadline for registration is
Wednesday, Feb. 11.
Traineeships in Mental Health Careers Offered
Graduating college seniors and new 
graduates are invited to apply for the 
"live-in" Pre-professional Resident 
Advisor counselor Traineeships offered 
at The Devereux Foundation in 
Suburban Philadelphia, a group of 
multidisciplinary residential and day 
treatment and rehabilitation centers. 
The Devereux PA Branch is accredited 
by the . American Psychological 
Association for Predoctoral Internships 
in Clinical and Counseling 
Psychology. The E. L. French 
Rehabilitation Center is approved by 
the Commission on Accreditation of 
Rehabilitation Facilities, and by the 
Joint Commission on Accreditation of 
Hospitals.
Several twelve-month Mental Health 
Resident Advisor/Counselor
Traineeships are available at CAREER 
HOUSE, a transitional, coed, 
residential treatment/therapeutic 
education facility for post-high school 
youth with learning and adjustment 
problems; also, at the CENTER FOR 
HEAD TRAUMA, which provides an 
opportunity for an integrated learning 
and emotional adjustment problems. 
Trainees "live-in" and receive training 
and supervised experience in 
supportive counseling and milieu 
therapy, crisis intervention, residential 
treatment, cognitive remediation, 
social rehabilitation and recreation 
therapy, and report writing. They 
participate in case conferences and 
attend clinical seminars. Experience 
may also be offered in selective job 
placements, educational therapy, and 
academic tutoring. Applicants with 
prior experience in expressive media 
may be assigned to the Adjunctive 
Therapies Program encompassing art 
and photography.
A stipend of $600 per month, 
housing and meals are offered to 
qualified applicants who are U.S. 
citizens and at least 21 years of age. 
Group hospitalization and Major 
Medical Insurance coverage is also 
provided. Trainees must have the use 
of a fully insured personal automobile, 
and should be able to do their own 
typing. They should have a broad 
academic base of training and some 
degree of practical experience in 
outlined duties. Preference will be 
given to applicants who plan to make 
a profession in mental health or related 
fields and are seeking a comprehensive 
experiential learning/ training 
experience in supportive mental health 
services to refine their career 
objectives.
For information and applications 
write: Director, Institute of Clinical 
Training and Research, 19 S. Waterloo 
Road, Box 400, Devon, PA 19333-
0400, Tel. 2151964-3000.

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1987The TartanPage 3
STG Colony Gets Charter
photo by Glenn Schuster
Marian Williams (middle, second row), National Fraternity President 
of Kappa Kappa Gamma, visited Carnegie Mellon's Delta Xi chapter 
last Monday night. She is surrounded by the sisters of KKG.
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
The national offices of Sigma Tau Gamma 
fraternity will award the CMU Sigma Tau 
Gamma colony its Charter on March 14, 
1987. The Charter recognizes that the 
colony meets all national fraternity 
standards, and formalizes the complete 
commitment of the national fraternity to the 
local fraternity.
In order to pass from colony to Chartered 
status, Sigma Tau Gamma brothers created a 
fraternity organizational structure, 
implemented a scholarship program and 
awards, and obtained advisors for each major 
fraternity office. Last semester, the chapter 
participated in a blood drive and fundraiser 
for Muscular Dystrophy. This fulfilled 
national and University community service 
requirements.
This process usually requires several years 
of hard work. The men completed the 
colony stage in just over one year. Sigma 
Tau Gamma is located in Doherty 
Apartments A-tower. The Inter-Fraternity 
Council will vote to grant full recognition 
in December, 1987.
Their history at CMU dates from 1921, 
when a group of men formed Gamma Nu. 
In 1929, Tau Delta Phi national Chartered 
Gamma Nu as their Omega chapter. The 
Tau Delta Phi national went bankrupt in 
1974, and the chapter affiliated with Zeta 
Beta Tau national as the Delta Tau chapter.
Zeta Beta Tau achieved the highest 
fraternity QPA and was very competitive in 
Greek Sing and Spring Carnival Booth. 
However, some Zeta Beta Tau brothers were 
involved in several serious incidents in 
1984. The University revoked Zeta Beta 
Tau's recognition and terminated their
fraternity house lease at 1071 Morewood 
Avenue.
"We were forced to discipline the fraternity 
as a whole. That was unfortunate since 
many individuals in the fraternity were not 
responsible for the trouble," said John P. 
Crecine, CMU Vice President, who helped 
direct University involvement in the issue.
Some brothers felt that their fraternity still 
had many worthwhile goals and traditions. 
In Spring 1985, they broke all relations with 
Zeta Beta Tau national and adopted their old 
Tau Delta Phi letters.
"ZBT national wanted to fight the 
University. The alumni attitude was 
different," said Tom Janicki, an Alumni 
Advisor who graduated from CM.U in 1974 
and Chairman of the Board of Sigma Tau 
Gamma Alumni Corporation. "Alumni 
wrote to the University. We wanted to work 
together to save the really good core of the 
fraternity  of course I'm biased, I think we 
have a really good alumni group."
With the help of local alumni, the chapter 
screened several national fraternities and 
decided to become a colony of Sigma Tau 
Gamma. "We examined how different 
nationals helped chapters out in emergencies. 
We telephoned these chapters and found out 
exactly how the national was involved," 
Janicki said. "We also wanted a national 
that would help us out. People from Sigma 
Tau Gamma national are here quite a bit."
Janicki described how the alumni role has 
changed in this way: "After the national
selection, we helped the chapter develop the 
undergraduate structure. Now they don't need 
us as much. The alumni meet with the 
chapter every two or three weeks to make 
sure were on track. My major goal is that I 
can sit down and talk to the brothers and
they can tell me what they think. I have a 
good time at the house. I feel comfortable 
because we're all pretty open."
"Tom [Janicki] is the reason why we're 
[Sigma Tau Gamma] here. Tom would tell 
us, 'Don't give up, keep working! There's no 
reason why you can't have a sucessful rush!' 
when we were Tau Delta Phi," said Dan 
Cohen, a Sigma Tau Gamma brother.
"It is very difficult for an organization to 
throw out the cause of a major problem and 
start over. It is impressive how much of a 
change they've made. We [the University] 
have seen a high degree of performance," 
Crecine said.
"We are very pleased to bring this chapter 
into Sigma Tau Gamma," said William P. 
Bernier, Executive Director of Sigma Tau
Gamma national, located in Warrensburg, 
Missouri. "These high quality men had a 
stong desire to rebuild and have made a very 
credible and worthwhile fraternity."
From February 20 through 22, Sigma Tau 
Gamma will host the fraternity's Regional 
Conclave, the annual conference of chapters 
in Pennsylvania, New York, and New 
England. They recently commenced a 
"Responsible Host Policy," a ten-point 
policy which includes a brother who 
monitors alcohol consumption.
Sigma Tau Gamma fraternity was founded 
in 1920 at Missouri State University. The 
youngest national fraternity, there are a total 
of 80 chapters and colonies across the United 
States.
ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW 
ABOUT FINDING A SPECTACULAR APARTMENT 
FOR SEPTEMBER IS 
DARAN MANAGEMENT
COMPANY
FORBES AT HALKET STREET 
6819100

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanFebruary 10,1987
Religious Factions in Lebanon Examined
By ALEX HOOSHMAND
Tartan Staffwriter 
Few cities in history have undergone such 
dramatic reversal of character as Beirut. Once 
called the "Pearl of the Middle East", it was 
a centre of commerce and high-life in the 
region. Millions of deals were made in its 
teeming and bustling streets: fortunes were 
made and lost, stars rose and fell. Today the 
city is a dim shadow of its former self. Its 
rubble strewn streets and gutted buildings
can not hide the 
fact anymore that 
there is a war
going on in the city. Although those 
citizens who have stayed behind, refusing to 
flee the terror, give the appearance of leading 
normal lives, there is always an underlying 
tension, the acknowledgement that one more 
death does not make much difference to the 
city.
It is against the background of this tortured 
landscape that one the most daring hostage 
abductions took place recently. Three men 
wearing the colours of the elite Lebanese 
Task 16 police force, entered the grounds of 
Beirut University and asked campus security 
to round up the faculty on grounds of a 
security matter. When the academics were 
assembled, they picked out three Americans 
and an Indian with an American passport, 
drew their guns and took them away.
The Americans were victims in the latest 
round of hostage taking that has raised the 
number of foreigners held in Beirut to 25. 
The Anglican Archbishop's envoy, Terry 
Waite, who has made a number of visits to 
Lebanon seeking to act as a middleman in 
negotiating the release of hostages, may
have become a victim himself since his 
disappearance two weeks ago.
As usual it is difficult for Western 
intelligence sources to find out who exactly 
is responsible for what. Contradicting claims
abound but it is certain that the abductors are 
under the influence of Hezballah (Party of 
God.) Originating in the early 1980's as the 
brainchild of the Ayatollah Khomeini (or so 
it is claimed), Hezballah is more of a 
movement than a coherent organization. 
There is no formal chain of command, yet 
Hezballah can roughly coordinate various
terrorist groups affiliated with Iran. Amongst 
the groups associated with Hezballah is the 
Islamic Jihad (Islamic Holy War), thought to 
have kidnapped the three Americans from 
Beirut University.
In Washington, politicians can only shake 
their heads and point to Iranscam as the 
cause of the latest rash of hostage takings. 
The American government's willingness to 
deal with Iran has sent a clear message to the 
terrorists, inviting them to increase their 
leverage over the U.S. by taking more 
hostages, whose increased value to the
terrorists makes it more difficult to negotiate 
their release. Meanwhile, the State 
Department has banned all American citizens 
from Beirut as potential future hostages. It is 
not expected that most of the 1500 
Americans still remaining in Beirut leave, as 
they are well aware of the dangers 
surrounding them and their dual citizenships 
entitle them to stay.
U.S. officials seemed to get a break when 
West German police arrested Mohammad 
Ali Hamadei, thought to be one of the 
highjackers of TWA flight 847 in which a 
U.S. Navy diver was killed. Soon after, 
Hamadei's brother was also arrested with 
some explosives. The Germans agreed to 
extradite Hamadei to the U.S. However, 
since then, two German businessmen were 
kidnapped in Beirut and are being held 
hostage pending the release of the Hamadei 
brothers. The West German government is 
now backing down from its extradition 
promise in hope of buying more time for the 
hostages.
Meanwhile the U.S. is still searching for 
effective measures against terrorists. It has 
moved several naval units within quick 
striking distance off the coast of Lebanon. 
This sabre-rattling has elicited nothing but 
threats of hostage deaths however. The State 
Department is also pushing for another antiterrorist conference with its Western allies, 
but most are reluctant to comply. The 
Europeans point to Iranscam as one reason 
for their reluctance. Another is the fear that 
such a conference might provoke the 
terrorists holding their hostages, leading to a 
disruption of negotiations for their release 
and, at worst, to their death.
CMU Joins 
Stanford in NeXT 
Investment
continued from page 1
"It's more a reflection of reality than a new 
advantage," says Crecine. He hastens to add 
that his appointment to the Board will not 
change Carnegie Mellon's relationships with 
other computer vendors. Other companies 
were contacted before he accepted the 
position and Crecine is convinced that the 
University, "will continue to enjoy excellent 
relationships with all the major vendors."
According to Crecine, "The whole idea to 
have universities invest in NeXT came about 
during a conversation with Dick Cyert and 
Steve Jobs." After arriving at this decision, 
NeXT invited Carnegie Mellon and Stanford 
to invest. Both schools accepted the offer, 
and Crecine said "We [CMU and Stanford] 
had some communication about the 
magnitude of the investment and some 
communication about the quality of the 
investment." The investment by Carnegie 
Mellon has been under consideration by the 
University for six to eight monthes. The 
initial go ahead was given by the Board of 
Trustees in June of 1986.
The current agreement does not require 
NeXT to make a public offer on the stock 
market, but Crecine predicts that once they 
have a product out they will go public.
The unusual spelling of the NeXT name is 
a result of IBM designer Paul Rands work 
with Steve Jobs, who wanted to make his 
new companys logo stand out. The word is 
not an abbreviation, but simply an eye
catching version of the corporations name.
Time to... Care More, Share More
The Original Hot Dog Shop
Sun - Thurs 9 am - 4:30 am
___________________......frij.Sgt_____ 5-7=/p-=h-6. jam____________________________
Cheeseburger Platter
includes: Cheeseburger, Fries30 off
Soup of the Day
3 varieties of soup to choose from
offer expires Feb. 28,1987
and Small Coke
only $299
offer expires Feb. 28,1987
TECHNOLOGY FOR TOMORROW...
THE TORRINGTON COMPANY TODAY!
CAREERS IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
Our commitment to continued growth includes investing in people who can help us provide the best engineering and technical assistance to meet the high technology demands of today and tomorrow! Your mechanical engineering expertise is the first step to a rewarding career with The Torrington Company.
29CA RE 9SI ANMHInIL9 CGG$HI 9C G$LO Cl9 nCiI MRCl9 2MNI2 ILv$LIIi$Lv MLO C9SIi CAACi9lL$9$I2 F$9S 9SI 9Cii$Lv9CL HCnAMLEo
-7=/ph-/o-7u )7 byAndGi 
l/epdyps 26Nwr 1987
TORRINGTON
Part of worldwide I ngersol 1-Rand 59 Field Street Torrington, CT 06790 
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIF
ANALYSIS

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1987The TartanPage 5
New Mech E Head Talks 
About Department ChangesSenate Pushes for Involvement 
in University Center Planning
By KEVIN POECKING
Tartan Staffwriter 
Student Senators discussed sending a 
proposal dealing with the University 
Center to the Assessment Panel at last 
Tuesdays meeting. The Assessment 
Panel decides what buildings are 
remodeled and renovated. The proposal 
stresses the need to have students 
involved in the new center's plans. The 
proposal states that the administration 
has denied students from the panel. One 
objection to the exclusion of students is 
that students are more familiar with the 
campus and more aware of its flaws. 
The proposal suggests that a qualified 
student from the architecture department 
sit on the panel. Finally, the proposal 
states that "by denying [positions to 
students] they are showing their lack of 
trust."
The proposal, written by the Campus 
Affairs committee and signed by its 
chairman, Glen R. Kombrek, was not 
accepted by the Senate. Several Senators 
objected to a line that read: "The students had 
a door slammed in their faces marked 
'private', 'administrators only', 'no children 
allowed.'" A motion to remove this 
statement failed, and the proposal was 
referred back to the committee. The revised 
proposal will be discussed at a future 
meeting.
Senate did however pass the amendment 
proposed at the previous meeting which 
defines the term "political" as "(1) an 
espousal of or action pertaining to specific 
philosophies, ideologies, or policies which 
are governmental or legal, and (2) an 
espousal of or action pertaining to 
position(s) specific on public issues."
Local Students Having Peace 
Dance on Valentines Day
By S.A. CARPENTER
Tartan staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons Mechanical Engineering 
Department has been under new direction 
since September.
Glenn B. Sinclair now heads the 
department, taking over the position left by 
former Mech E director Bill Sirignano. The 
Auckland, New Zealand native is no stranger 
to the program, having been an assistant to 
the Mech E head for the last five years. 
Being here for a while before assuming 
command has helped him adjust to the 
position more easily than if he had come 
straight from somewhere else. He presently 
lives here with his wife and three of his four 
children (the fourth is away at college.) "I've 
lived here for a while...Pittsburgh has 
character...it was very easy to adapt."
His plans for the near future include hiring 
more faculty members, probably five, to 
give the program more flexibility. Doing 
this would enable the department to offer 
new courses, such as required Numerical 
Methods and CAD (Computer Aided Design) 
classes. Increasing the number of faculty 
allows for more recitations, reduces crowding 
in the classes, and eases the load on each 
teacher. Lighter loads make good teaching 
much easier. Even he will begin teaching at
the undergraduate level starting next 
semester, something he hasn't done in 
several years.
Computers are a large part of his plan for 
the future. Computers are definitely going 
to play a big role in these students' careers, 
he says, and there is a big difference between 
using computers the right way, and using 
them improperly.
Research, a staple for Engineering 
departments such as Carnegie Mellon's, is 
healthy, according to Sinclair. 2.5 million 
dollars in research is going on in the Mech E 
department presently. "Of course, it's 
important to have a balance between research 
and teaching." His goal is to pay more 
attention to the undergraduates than has been 
in the past. "Nobody is 100% research." 
The philosophy in research is to solve 
problems that are important and relevant to 
today's world - "Timely problems" - 
according to the director.
Long term goals include the slow-but-. 
steady modernization of the lab, and greater 
emphasis, in the future, on the 
undergraduate program.
Has it been what he expected? The new 
head of the Mech E department thought 
about it, smiled, and said, "Well, it certainly 
is a lot more work than I thought."i I
"Youth Cry," a group of several hundred 
high school students from twenty-two 
Pittsburgh area schools concerned about the 
risk of nuclear war, is holding a peace 
program and dance on Saturday, February 
14, from 7:00 to 10:30 p.m. at the 
downtown YWCA, 4th and Wood Streets. 
The program, entitled "Love of Earth," will 
begin at 8:00 p.m. featuring speakers and 
student groups performing skits. Live bands 
and a disc jockey will provide music for 
dancing, and refreshments will be available. 
Admission charge is $3.00.
"Youth Cry," trying to educate themselves 
and other students, is participating in the 
National Forum project, initiated by high
school students at Milton Academy in 
Milton, Massachusetts. This project is a 
petition drive requesting the major television 
networks to hold a televised educational 
forum on nuclear arms issues. Congress 
passed a bipartisan resolution in support of 
this petition drive, which is uniting high 
school students across the country.
Sponsored by Pennsylvania Peace Links, 
"Youth Cry" is endorsed locally by United 
Campus Ministries, Pitt Chaplain 
Association, Carlow College, YWCA, 
Educators for Social Responsibility, 
Physicians for Social Responsibility, the 
Thomas Merton Center and the Pittsburgh 
Peace Institute.photo by Lydia Leo vie
Glenn Sinclair, Head of the Mechanical Engineering Department
Oliver 
Flowers
We Deliver
421-0350
Valentine's Day Specials Open 9am  9pm Tuesday through Friday
jnrfiiL'r riTiim
In fact, we'll even pay you more than $600 a month while you attend. Thats in addition to paying tor your tuition, required books and fees.Its all part of the Armed Forces Health Professions Scholarship Program. And here is how it works!If you're selected for a Physician's Scholarshipfrom the Army, Navy, or Air Forceyoure commissioned as an officer in the Reserves.While youre in school, youll serve 45 days a year on active duty, gaining valuable medical experience. After graduation, you will serve three or more years, the length depending on the requirements of the Service selected and years of scholarship assistance received.As an Armed Forces physician you'll receive officer s pay and benefits, and enjoy the advantages of working regular hours. Youll also see a diversity of patients and have opportunities to use sophisticated medical technologyBut most important, while youre in medical school well help pay the bills. For more information, send in this coupon. There is no obligation.
r
wHH$ s ub ycs 1:s MTTb0 Gm-bs Sbp Gnsscah 2yc1d6bLD A6c.6du
$ Hsr dT ybrD Dd u ub0adr 3yccr b-DbT3b3 $ eT0b631dT0 1yb6b a3 Tc c7f.kacTI
 n61 1ya3 ceDcT 1cP M6ub0 Gc6cd3 2ycrd63yaD3 ig Rck B*VSeT1aT.1cT 21d1acT_ LE 9ahV,B4!B 
Hyb8 eD 1c nYbbP U MnnE CnMwE Cni GCiHI
9010
Atkin
Hk,
2c2bLdr
Cogs.T
Fistdot SluOy,n3
L
TIintom>lion*ouolurMr^pfQ^w*budtarictu<inpurpo*<< TlwmoweoMpi can respond K> you> quMl (Authon*y 10 USC 503 and 0 #37)

---------------------------------------------------

Andrew Robitshek CIT 
FUNDING & RECOGNITION 
Friday 1:30 - 2:30
Dave Levy CIT 
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
Monday 2:30-3:00 
Wednesday 3:30-4:00
Tamal Mukherjee CIT 
FUNDING & RECOGNITION CO-CHAIRMAN 
Tuesday 2:30-3:30
Norman Larson CFA 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS CHAIRMAN 
Thursday 3:00 - 4:00
Elise Friedland CIT 
FUNDING & RECOGNITION CO-CHAIRMAN 
Thursday 1:00-2:00
Shep Bostin H&SS 
FUNDING & RECOGNITION 
Monday 1:00-2:00
Celeste Clark IM 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
Tuesday 3:30-4:30
Greg Staresenic CIT 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
FUNDING & RECOGNITION 
Wednesday 1:30-2:30
Renata Stachura CFA 
CO-CHAIRMAN RULES 
Tuesday 1:30 - 2:30 (CFA Foyer)Elizabeth Sherlock H&SS 
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
CAMPUS AFFAIRS 
Wednesday 4:00-5:00
Allan West CFA 
PUBLIC RELATIONSDave Goldstein CIT CHAIRMAN OF STUDENT SENATEJim Denburg PRESIDENT OF STUDENT GOVERNMENTNeal Shipley H&SS 
FUNDING & RECOGNITION 
Friday 10:30-11:30

---------------------------------------------------

Raju Bendre MCS 
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
Thursday 6:00-7:00
Allen Greenberg H&SS 
RULES CHAIRMAN 
Thursday 5:00-6:00
Carolyn Sharpe CIT 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
Tuesday 12:00-1:00GNactfN GtfTNt The Link
Meetings on Tuesday at 7:00pm in the Wherrett Room. 
Or call us at x2115.
Glenn Kornbrek CFA 
CAMPUS AFFAIRS CHAIRMAN 
Friday 11:00-12:00
Nadine Flynn CFA 
PUBLIC RELATIONS CHAIRMAN 
Tuesday 1:30 - 2:30 (CFA Foyer)"5a Levy MCS 
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
Thursday 2:00 - 3:00
Audrey Liu CFA 
CAMPUS AFFAIRS 
Friday 12:00 -1:00
Dana Hausman MCS 
PUBLIC RELATIONS CO-CHAIRMAN 
Wednesday 6:00-7:00
Dave Lewis CIT 
PUBLIC RELATIONS 
Thursday 11:00-12:00
iAhnMavuifl ^IT Stuart Rapoport CITJohn Maxwell OIT AA'Ancmiir ouuo/p7
Thureda^ 12:00 -1:00
Kalpesh Shastri MCS 
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS 
Monday 5:30-6:30
cAQ

---------------------------------------------------

Minutes of the Student Senate
Meeting called to order 7:05pm 
Present: Bendre, Bostin, Clark, Flynn,
Friedland, Goldstein, Greenberg, 
Kombrek, Larson, Levy D, Levy E, 
Lewis, Liu, Maxwell, Mukherjee, 
Rapaport, Robitshek, Shastri, 
Sherlock,Shipley, Stachura, Staresinic, 
West.
Absent: Hausman(exc.), Sharpe(exc.) 
Ex-officio members: Dean Cox,
Chu, DeLeon, Denburg.
Absent: Dean Walters, Ross.
Audience Participation: None.
Dean Cox: There will be a Board of 
Trustees meeting on Monday. 
President:Jim Denburg Oscar Mayer 
would like us to meet with him about the 
issue of students being on Retails 
Committee.
SDC:Leanne Chu Issue concerning 
frequency of piano-tuning in Dorms. 
Pianos are tuned in August, November 
and February. SDC Dance Saturday, Feb. 
7th.
IFC: No report.
Parking Committee: Shep Bostin
Spoke to Oscar Mayer concerning 
possibility of off-campus parking facility 
for faculty/staff with a shuttle bus 
running to and from facility at key hours. 
Response survey will be sent around. 
Chairman:Dave Goldstein Retreat 
went well. Job Fair for Spring/Summer 
Jobs will be Wednesday, Feb. 11th. 
Petitions for students interested in 
becoming Senators are available at Skibo 
Info. Desk.
Treasurer: Fred DeLeon No report.
Academic Affairs:Norman Larson
Issue concerning high cost of software 
students are recquired to buy for Intro, to 
Pascal course was discussed with Phil 
Miller.
Campus Affairs.'Glenn Kornbrek
Issue concerning endorsement of proposal 
that students be put on Assessment 
Panel. Move to ammend proposal by 
getting rid of aggressive tone of letter. 
Motion failed. Proposal sent back to 
drawing board.
Funding & Recognition:Tamal 
Mukherjee No report.
Public Relations:Nadine Flynn
Retreat Saturday Jan. 31st. went well. 
Senate Happy Hour this Friday 5- 
6:30pm.
Rules:Allen Greenburg Motion to 
amend revised definition of 'political' in 
Constitution to be discussed this 
meeting.
Old Business: Motion to call
ammendment to floor and pass it as 
corrected last week. Motion passed.
New Business: None.
Points of Discussion: Senator E.
LevyRecommendation to fix clocks on 
campus. Senator D. LevyThose 
interested in doing personal interviewing 
get in touch with me.
Announcements:
Funding & Recognition Meeting: Sat, 
12:00.
Campus Affairs Meeting Wed, 6:30pm. 
Academic Affairs Meeting Thurs, 
4:30pm.
Rules Meeting Sat, 12:00.)
Meeting Adjourned 7:38pm.
HAIR
Featuring products 
formulated by the
tri
INSTITUTE OF TRICHOLOGY
LEWIS HAIR SALON
813 S. Aiken Avenue - Shadyside - Phone 682-4063 Hours Mon.-Fri. 9-9 Sat. 9-5 Sun. 12-5
Cut.............$14-16Perms.........$44 (includes cut)
Highlighting.. $15 and up
Page 8The TartanFebruary 10, 1987
Child Care Center Holding 
Enrollment for Summer and 
Academic Year Programs
By SANDY MYERS
Tartan staffwriter
The CMU Child Care Center is currently 
conducting enrollment for the coming 
summer and the '87-88 school year. Located 
in Morewood Gardens, the Center offers 
extended day care and nursery 
school/kindergarten programs for children 
between the ages of 2-1/2 and 6.
In addition, the summer program, which 
starts June 2 and ends July 31, is also open 
to children between the ages of 6 and 10. 
Says Dr. Marsha Poster, Director of the 
Center, "the summer camp provides a variety 
of exciting opportunits for children." These 
opportunits include extensive travel in 
Pittsburgh, trips to the Nature Museum, use 
of campus computing facilities and the 
Centers excellent playground.
Also accepting participants is the Infant 
Toddler Center of Squirrel Hill, of which 
Poster is co-director. The Infant Toddler 
Center is located in the Wightman 
Community Service Center, 5-minutes from 
campus. It offers programs for children from 
6 weeks to 3 years of age.
Space is available for 100 children at the 
CMU Child Care Center and for 55 at the 
Infant Toddler Center. However, acording to 
Poster, "enrollment is limited, so interested 
parents should call immediately." The
Members of the CMU Child Care Center enjoy a break from typical 
Pittsburgh winter weather (above) and enjoy silly little-kiddy activities
zCY$H;F
Lydia Leovic
One enrollee in the Center seems to be 
enjoying himself.
Centers are open to all local residents, but 
CMU affiliates will be given priority 
enrollment. In addition, full-time employees 
of the University recieve a 25% reduction in 
monthly tuition through the Benefits Office.
Those interested in the CMU Child Care 
Center should contact Dr. Marsha Poster at 
268-2149 for applications and appointments 
to visit the program. For the Infant Toddler 
Center call Gen Mann, site co-ordinator, at 
421-1450. Again, space in these excellent 
programs is limited, so interested persons 
should call immediately.
Having Back Problems?
The Answer:Back MassageCome and See or Participate in light massage for back problems.
Healthful Monday, February 16,11:40-12:20 in the Wherrett Room
Masseur: Tom Clark
photo by Lydia Leovic

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1987The TartanPage 9
II1V
THURSDAY. FEBRUARY 1 
1 1:00am*6:00pm
o Subs by the inch 
11:00 am-2:00 pm
 Ice cream sundaes 
11:00 am-6:00 pm
For every sundae sold-we will donete to the Nlultple Sclerosis Drive.
Dining Service
Will vandalism turn our forests into an endangered species?
The destruction of signs, 
public facilities and campsites 
in our nation's forests says 
one thing loud and clear.
Respect doesnt grow on 
trees. It must be cultivated.
From camper to hiker.
Parent to child. Generation 
to generation.
The sad truth is unless we 
begin to help people appreci
ate the forest for the priceless 
gift it is, something valuable 
will be lost. Our access to it.
Vandalism. Its time to 
draw the line.
? ?
ouRean? ?
FREE
OIN$wIi
F$9S$L 
30
n$Ll9I2 ? * ? ? * 
622-7000
PIZZAoHSII2I
2lAiInI
12" CHEESE 
$4.40 
16" CHEESE 
$6.50
$9MN$MLSCMv$I
12" WHOLE...$3.95 
6" HALF...S2.00
4523 Centre Avenue 
Oakland 
Sun - Thurs 11am -1am 
Fri - Sat 11am - 2am
COUPON
? ? Our Gang Pizza ? * 
$3.00 OFF
Large 2 Item Pizza
6227000 
Expires 2/28/87

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanFebruary 10,1987
Crime and Incident Report 1/30 - 2/6
1/30 8:28 pm CRIMINAL
MISCHIEF/DRUG USAGE Students 
reported to be smoking marijuana in Boss 
Hall. 4 roaches found in ashtray when officer 
arrived, students admitted to smoking. 
Report filed with Dean's office.
1/31 12:05 am VEHICLE ACCIDENT -
HIT and RUN Silver Volkswagen slid on 
ice through MM and Tech intersection, hit a 
Honda, kept going. Honda sustained no 
damage.
1/31 1:57 am ASSIST OUTSIDE
AGENCY Pittsburgh Police dispatched to 
Kappa Sigma on report of alcohol being 
served to minors. CMU Security showed up 
first, determined that ID's had been checked 
at door. Told this to Pgh. Police when they 
showed up. Police left.
1/31 4:47 pm THEFT IBM PC keyboard 
stolen from Wean Hall. Valued at $250.
2/1 4:12 am FIRE/EXPLOSION
Electrical fire in switchgear room of UCC. 
Building was evacuated, Pgh. fire units 
responded and extinguished fire. CMU 
electrician turned off switch on power 
supply, switch exploded. Electrician not 
hurt, but transported to West Penn Hospital 
to be checked. Building closed all of 
Monday, all computer systems down.
2/1 4:54 am CRIMINAL MISCHIEF
Water fountain pulled from wall on 3rd floor 
of Margaret Morrison.
2/1 5:20 am Student stopped for light at 
comer of Forbes and Murray Aves. Black 
male, approximately 5'8", medium build, 
small mustache, and short hair, approached
car, told student he was in an accident and 
asked for a ride to a phone. Student 
recognized man as the same who had ripped 
him off for $100 last fall in promising a TV 
and concert tickets. Student yelled "Mario 
Hill" (the name the man had given him last 
fall), which startled the man. He then began 
yelling "David" down the street, presumably 
to an accomplice. The student fled the scene. 
CMU Security alerted Pgh. Police #6 station 
that the man was in the area.
2/1 1:53 pm FLOOD Hot water pouring
from broken radiator inside the women 
employees' room in Schlag.
2/1 4:45 pm ASSIST OUTSIDE
AGENCY Two people on a motorcycle (1 
student and 1 former student) broadsided a car 
on Forbes by the Bureau of Mines 
entrance.Transported to Presby, students 
treated for fractured leg and head lacerations.
2/2 12:45 pm THEFT Macintosh Plus,
400K external drive, 800K external drive, 2 
keyboards, and 2 mice stolen from Doherty 
Hall. Valued at $5000.
2/2 5:19 pm GAZORCHING 10 males 
on front lawn of Delta Upsilon gazorching 
unknown objects towards Cut. DU President 
was advised of possible dangers.
2/2 11:01 pm ASSAULT CFA
basement, student accused another student of 
stealing a wig. Pushing ensued. Report filed 
with Dean's office.
2/3 12:20 am BURGLARY Forced entry
into gameroom of Tartan Grill. Top dead 
bolt of stationary door broken. Cash box on 
Centipede kicked in, change stolen.
SPEND THIS SUMMER IN MAINE
e/ y b)d7G/PP)p y= S-nn/oy l)p u-pPGLocated on scenic Twelve Mile Lake. Winthrop. Maine.
)n/7-7uG -7 =_/ l)PP)o-7u GS-PPGi 
swimming (WSI), sailing, waterskiing. canoeing, tennis, gymnastics, field sports, arts and crafts (ceramics, leather, macram, sewing, stained glass, etc.), hiking, camping, secretarial, food service.PREFERENCE FOR SOPHSJK&. SIS., GRADS.CoBUd TW PREFFF PO Bn 307. Wwtwaod. MA. (OMO-OCT (S17) 7*24291
USED BOOK SALE
 Scholarly books at reasonable prices
 Books on topics you never thought existed!
 Collectors books
 Records and small art prints
Skibo Ballroom 
Monday, 2/16 9am - 9pm 
Tuesday, 2/17 9am - 7pm (closed 11:30 - IKK))
K*CGyne Care that is
Woman-Centered
 Professional & Convenient
 Female V (Dale Practitioners
 Complete Check-ups
 Contraceptive Services
Women'sHealthServices
El
During your check-up, 
ask for your free copy of 
Our Bodies, Ourselves.
Appointments 
V Information 
562-1900
107 Sixth Street 
Downtown 
Pittsburgh
2/3 3:59 am THEFT Pitt student,
described as a 57" black male, 165 lb. who 
had borrowed software from Hunt Library 
without ID in the past, borrowed more, left 
box of disks as collateral. Secretary found a 
private file belonging to the library on one 
of them, and reported a Reflex manual to be 
missing. Student admitted to copying files 
from time to time, but claimed he knew 
nothing about the manual. Disk was erased, 
and student was told not to return to Hunt 
Library.
2/3 8:51 pm UNAUTHORIZED
PERSONS 2 black males tried to get into 
gym without ID.
2/4 1:54 am VEHICLE THEFT White
1986 Toyota Camry stolen from MM lot. 
[Ed. note: Car was recovered night of 2/5 
in Braddock. Anybody who witnessed any 
suspicious persons in the MM lot on 
Tuesday is asked to call the owner of the car, 
Dirk, at x3648.]
2/4 4:30 pm THEFT Laser pointer stolen
from podium in Skibo.
2/5 12:01 am SUSPICIOUS PERSON
Student entered women's room in basement 
of Hunt Library. White male in brown suede 
shoes, brownish-blond hair emerged from a 
stall and ran out of bathroom and up stairs.
2/5 5:01 am THEFT Student stopped
officer to report witnessing 2 black males 
break a car window behind Delta Tau Delta 
and steal a car stereo. Males fled the scene on 
foot, one down Morewood, one down 
Forbes.
2/5 9:22 pm ASSIST OUTSIDE
AGENCY Recovery of stolen blue Mazda 
parked outside Sigma Alpha Epsilon by 
Pgh. Police.
2/6 6:11 am FLOOD Valve broke on
glycol supply pipe of air conditioning 
system in UCC. Entire AC system was 
drained, and all computer systems were 
down. AC System was refilled and systems 
came back up later that night.
Senate Goes After Student 
View of Faculty Through 
Surveys
By NORMAN E. LARSON
Special to the Tartan
If youre an undergraduate, then you will 
soon find or may have already found a survey 
in your mailbox. This survey comes to you 
from the Academic Affairs Committee of the 
Student Senate. All the survey asks is that 
you jot down your initial reactions to your 
instructors' methods of teaching. 
Specifically good or specifically bad 
comments are not what the committee is 
looking for; honesty is most important. 
The better responses will be those that offer 
constructive criticism that would aid others 
in really getting to know what kind of a 
teacher a faculty member is.
You may have noticed that an explanation 
of what the Academic Affairs Committee 
plans to do with the results is missing from 
the survey. The reason the explanation is 
not on the questionnaire is that it would 
leave no space for student response. It is 
included here so that you may feel secure in 
knowing to the comments you write will 
not be discarded the way they effectually can 
be (Mi the administrations "Faculty Course 
Evaluation."
The main goal of the project is to increase 
the quality of a Carnegie Mellon education. 
By bringing faculty performance to the front 
of everyones minds, it is hoped that those 
faculty who deserve a pat on the back will 
get the credit they deserve. On the other 
hand, it is time that the faculty who fail to 
meet student expectations for good teaching 
are encouraged to try to better themselves. 
Because teaching is a skill, it can be taught. 
There are members of the faculty who have 
never had any formal training in methods of 
teaching. These people may have no idea 
they have weaknesses because they haven't 
been trained to lode for them. What the 
faculty guide will hopefully raise is the level 
of concern among the faculty in teaching 
well.
What constitutes good teaching? The only
real method of measuring the quality of 
teaching is to measure students' learning. 
That is the purpose of this initial survey. 
The Academic Affairs committee needs to 
know what you think a good teacher is. By 
telling us why a teacher is good or bad and 
how s/he can improve you will be providing 
information that will be usefull in several 
ways: for evaluating individual faculty
members; for giving a general view of the 
faculty as a whole; and for helping the 
Senators to identify key questions to ask on 
a more complete survey in the future.
It is the committee's hope that we will be 
able to compile a completely student-written 
guide to Carnegie Mellon's faculty and 
classes. The initial survey's purpose is to 
help in the formation of more directed 
questions for the later survey that will 
become this guide. The guide's format is 
unclear at present but its purposes are not so 
vague. For students, the guide will help 
with the making of choices of which classes 
or sections to take. By using real words 
instead of or in addition to numerical 
responses, a more realistic portrait of the 
faculty can be painted. For the faculty, this 
collection of comments should carry more 
weight than the scores they casually look 
over the afternoon the FCEs come out 
Take the survey to class if you like and pay 
close attention to the teaching that is going 
on there. Fill out the form and just drop it 
in campus mail as soon as you can. If you 
want better teaching you have to work for it. 
As your representatives, the members of 
Student Senate and its Academic Affairs 
Committee are dedicated to working toward 
the goals which you set. By sending in the 
survey you'll be defining those goals. If you 
have any questions, comments, or ideas: 
please send them to or stop by our office in 
Skibo 59.
Norman E. Larson, a junior in 
Architecture, is Chairman of the Academic 
Affairs Committee of Student Senate.
News Staff 
Meeting
@ pnnn 
Msmi Ofk
Bruce Kasrel

---------------------------------------------------

DONT FORGET YOUR LUNCH
The Scotland Yard Brown Bag Lunch...
...now every tuesday through friday you may have a different delicious combination 
of a pita sandwich, Soho Natural Soda, Dannon yogurt, &. a piece of fruit delivered 
to you for only $4.00 ($3.75 without delivery service). Look for our delivery 
people in your areas on the following days from 11 :am to 12:15pm:
Tuesdays: Warner Hal! vending area 
Wednesdays:Wean Hall fifth floor 
Thursday:Baker Hall 2 nd floor rotunda 
Friday: CFA and GSIA's main lobbies
Each day we will offer one of the following Brown Bag Lunch combinations:
Turkey & Swiss Pita or Tuna Pita 
with lettuce & tomato,Soho Cream Soda,Dannon Strawberry Yogurt 
and an apple.
Ham & Swiss Pita or Tuna Pita with lettuce& tomato, 
Soho Orange Soda, Dannon Rasberry Yogurt 
and an apple.
Roast Beef & Cheddar or 
Chicken Pita with lettuce & tomato, Soho Sparkling Water,
Dannon Hearty Nut Yogurt 
and an orange.
Pastrami & Swiss Pita or Chicken Pita with lettuce & tomato, 
Soho Black Cherry Soda, 
Dannon Strawberry & Banana Yogurt 
and an orange.
All lunches are prepared daily. If you have a large order (5 or more) call x4965 between 10:00am and 11:00am and we'll be happy to have it ready for you to pick up or us to deliver.
Our reputation stands for quality haircare and up to the minute styling...all at affordable prices. Our clients know. Just ask one.
TheOrignarl Hrlo
TheHlrtgigDa tST
$25.00$13.00
Complete with written guarantee
Complete with shampoo and blow style
pSiT-A-tST
only $8.00
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
Great Styles Start at..
MUST HAVE COUPON 
! ~SAVE~$2.00
NOAPPO*NTMtM1
NECESSARY
I on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
- )..tj /g56jtm
1 February 28, 1987
.... (9c*cat oMnmms
PRECtSON HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
687-3500
Affirmtit jjftnufu mr rrpuert trmrmmAs of Affii CtimpmHr tm ItmmluttUtnmrmmita/iffkCamfmtrr Im bmjomt i li  nflitm Imimmt a{ Dtt/omm  Ctmfmy, Im Hhtyrtmp g t n/utm tmtrmrn* of t
Lets he real. Compare the equipment shes using to yours. If you 
were both trying to tunnel through a mountain, shed have a bulldozer 
and youd have a shrimp fork.
Dont despair. Your problem is already7 half solved. For a limited 
time, you can buy an Apple Macintosh Plus or a Macintosh 512K 
Enhanced computer with Microsoft Worksfor less money.
Which is wonderful.
You get a Macintosh, with its speed, ease of use, and graphics 
capability. Plus, you get a software program that lets you use all this 
Macintosh power in all your subjects.
Microsoft Works is not just one program, it s four integrated pro
grams: word processing, data-base management, spreadsheet with 
charting, and communications.
Meaning you can put charts in your history essays. Spreadsheets in 
your economics papers. Call Dow Jones News Retrieval at 2:00 7> to 
get the facts for your journalism story due at 8:00 7>
So if youre taking more than one subject this semester, you should 
checkout Macintosh and Microsoft Works.
But dont wait till the eleventh hour. This offer will end soon.
And your paper might stay out all night.
Macintosh and Microsoft Works
CMU Computer Store 
University Computing Center

---------------------------------------------------

l-7yPG Gb_/xdP/
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
Final Examination Policy and Schedule
Office of the Registrar 
Spring 1987
POLICY
The Faculty Senate adopted the following policies on the administration of 
final examinations for the Undergraduate courses:
1. all final exams shall be given in the final exam period;
2. the reading day and weekend preceding exams shall never be used for 
exam purposes of any kind;
3. faculty shall not exert or submit to pressures to move an exam so 
that people can leave earlier.
4. no student shall be required to take more than two exams on a given 
finals day; the registrar shall assist the student in resolving .
conflicts;*
5. no critiques or juries shall be scheduled on the last day of classes;
6. papers shall be made due no later than on the last day of classes;
7. take-home final exams shall be given for any 24-hour period of the 
student's choosing during the final exam period.
NOTE: COMPLAINTS ABOUT VIOLATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION POLICY OR
ALTERATIONS OF THE FINAL EXAMINATION SCHEDULE SHOULD BE DIRECTED 
TO THE APPROPRIATE DEPARTMENT HEAD.
Remember:
Caleindar <Chancjes
Last Day 
of Classes
Friday 
April 24
ReadingFinalReadingFinalFinal
DayExamsDayExamsExams
MondayTuesdayWednesdayThursdayFriday
April 27April 28April 29April 30May 1
Final
Exams
Final
Exams
Final
Exams
Cnrini3 87Monday 
May 4
Tuesday 
May 5
Wednesday 
May 6
0|JI II H
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCESELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
03121MODERN BIOLOGYMONMAY41:30-4:30PMDH221018102INTRO ELEC DEV CIRCTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMHHB103,HH B131, SH 125
03230GENETICSMONMAY41:30-4:30PMDHA31718113ELECTRICAL ENGR IAFRIMAY18:30-11:30AMHHB103,HH B131
03244EXP TECH IN BIOCHEMTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMDH120918133INTR TO DIGITAL SYSTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMPH100
03332BIOCHEMISTRY IITUEAPR285:30-8:30PMDH210518218LINEAR SYSTMS ANALYTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMDH2315
03441MOL BIO PROKARYOTEMONMAY48:30-11:30AMDH121218222AN DES DIG INT CIRCFRIMAY18:30-11:30AMPH100,SH 12503732BIOCHEMISTRY IITUEAPR285:30-8:30PMDH210518236INTRO SOL ST ELCTRNTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMADAMSON18304FLDS WAVE TRN LINESMONMAY48:30-11:30AM WEH 750018310FUND COMMUNCTN SYSTTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMMM10318332SEMICNDCT DEV AP IITUEAPR285:30-8:30PMHHB10318341ELECTROMECHANICSWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMSH212
CHEMICAL ENGINEERING18349CNCUR REAL-TIME SYSMONMAY45:30-8:30PMPH10018354APPLIED MAGNETICSTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMSB212
06152PRINC TRANS PR0C ITHUAPR301:30-4:30PMDH111218706ADV APPL MAGNETISMMONMAY45r30-8:30PMSH324
06202UNIT OPER CHEM ENGRTHUAPR301:30-4:30PMADAMSON18712MICROWAVE MAGNETICSMONMAY41:30-4:30PMPH 107A
06309PHY CHM COLL & SURFTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMI111218772SEMICNDCT DEV AP IITUEAPR285:30-8:30PMHHB103
06310TRANSPORT PHENOMENATHUAPR308:30-11:30AMDH210518774COMPUTER CNTRL SYSTTUEAPR285:30-8:30PMHHB131
06702ADV REACT KINETICSWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMI120918848DES RELIABLTY TESTTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMSH212
06704ADV HEAT MASS TRAMSFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMDH2200
06707PH? CHM COLL fi SURFTUEAHi288:30-11:30AMI1112ENGINEERING AND PUBLIC POT.TPV06709POLYMERIC MATERIALSTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMDH1217
06716ELBCT80CHEM ENGRONMAY48:30-11:30AMDH120919100TECHNOLOGY 6 PEOPLEWEDMAY61:30-4:30PManaitsnii06815ADV PROC SYNTHESISTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMDH212219319LAW & THE ENGINEERTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMSH12519422RADIAT HLTH PUB POLTUEAPR285:30-8:30PMPH126A
MATHEMATICS
CHEMISTRY
09104CH ASP ORG BIO MTLTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMDH1112
09105MODERN CHEMISTRY ITHUAm305:30-8:30PMDH2210
09106MODERN CHEMISTRY IIMONMAY48:30-11:30AMDH2210
09117ORGANIC CHEMISTRY 1MONMAY45:30-8:30PMDH1112
09144PHYSICAL CHEMISTRYTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMWEH 5403
09218ORGAN CHEMISTRY IITUEAPR288:30-11:30AMWEH 7500
09246PHYSCL CHEMISTRY IITUEAPR281:30-4:30PMDH1212
09248INORGANIC CHEMISTRYTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMWEH 5427
09502ORGNC CHEM POLYMERSTUEAPR285:30-8:30PMI2122
09741ORGNC CHEM POLYMERSTUEAPR285:30-8:30PMDH2122
CIVIL ENGINEERING
12208DYNAMICSTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMPH107A
12212SOLID MECHANICSTUEAra288:30-11:30AMPH107A
12325SOIL MECHANICSTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMPH107B
12602SYS ANALY CIV ENGRMONMAY48:30-11:30AMPH107B
12621STRUCTURAL MECH IITHUAPR301:30-4:30PMPH125C
12632WATER RESOURCE ENGRTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMPH126A
12635 ENVR ENG WTR/WSTWTRTUEAPR285:30-8:30PMPH107A
12640CMPTR-AID TOOLS C EMONMAY41:30-4:30PMPH125C
12705PROJ MGT  FINANCEFRIMAY18:30-11:30AM3H206
12726 MATH MDL ENV QUA SYWEDMAY61:30-4:30PMPH115
12746STRUC SYST IN DESTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMPH115
12755THEO BEAMS PL SHELLTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMPH115
21111CALCULUS IMONMAY41:30-4:30PMWEH 750021112CALCULUS IITHUAPR308:30-11:30AMHHB103,HHB131,SH 12521121CALCULUS ITHUAPR308:30-11:30AM DH121221122CALCULUS & LIN ALGTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMDH2210,DH2315,WEH 750021127DISCR MATH CMPTR SCFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMDH2210,DH231521257OPTMZTN SOC SCI ITUEMAY51:30-4:30PMPH10021258OPTMZTN SOC SCI IITHUAPR301:30-4:30PMDH2210,DH231521259CALCULUS IN 3-DFRIMAY11:30-4:30PMDH2210,DH231521260DIFFRENTL EQUATIONSWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMDH2210,DH231521292OPERATIONS RSCH IMONMAY41:30-4:30PMDH2315,DH1112,DH 121221301COMBINATORIAL ANALYWEDMAY61:30-4:30PMDH1112,DH121221341LINEAR ALGEBRATUEMAY58:30-11:30AMDH231521369NUMERICAL METHODSTUEMAY55:30-8:30PMDH221021455ADVANCED CALCULUS ITUEMAY58:30-11:30AMDH121221473ALGEBRAIC STRUCTTUEAPR288:30-11:30AM HHB131,HHB10321484APPL GRAPH THEORYWEDMAY68:30-11:30AM WEH750021485MATHEMATICAL MODELSMONMAY41:30-4:30PMSH12521487CONTROL THEORYMONMAY45:30-8:30PMWEH520521551MATHEMATCL LOGIC IMONMAY48:30-11:30AM WEH542721552MATHMTCL LOGIC IIMONMAY41:304:30PMWEH5427
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
24112FLUID MECHANICSTUEMAY51:30-4:30PMDH2210
24121THERMODYNAMICS IWEDMAY61:30-4:30PMSH125
24141STATICS & DYNAMICSTUBAPR288:30-11:30AMSH324
24202MECH DFRMBL SOLIDSTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMHHB103
24203STRESS ANALYSISWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMSH125
24215POTENTL FLOW AERODYTHUAPR301:30-4:30PMSH125
24233HEAT TRANSFERTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMSH206
HH B131
COMPUTER SCIENCEMETALLURGICAL ENGINEERING AND MATERIALS SCIENCE
15117INTRO COMPUT LISPFRINAY15:30-8:30PMWEH 5201
15200SRV PRGMNG NTH APPLFRIMAY11:30-4:30PMADAMSON
15211FUND STRUC CMP SC IFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMWEH 7500
15212FUND STRC CMP SC II 
ATHUAPR301:30-4:30PMPH 100
BTHUAPR301:30-4:30PMWEH 7500
15312PROG LANG DES PROCFRIMAY11:30-4:30PMPH 100
15381ARTFL INT RP PR SLVTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMWEH 7500
15411COMPILER DESIGNFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMDH 1212
15412OPERATING SYSTEMSTUEMAY51:30-4:30PMWEH 7500
15451APPL ALGRTHM DESIGNTHUAPR301:30-4:30PMDH 1212
15453FRM LANG & AUTOMATATUEAPR285:30-8:30PMWEH 5427
27131INTRO MATERIALS SCI 
AMONMAY48:30-11:30AMPH 125C
BMONMAY48:30-11:30AMPH 100
27216TRANSPRT & KINETICSTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMDH A317
27322PROCESS METALLURGYTHUAPR301:30-4:30PMDH A317
27332PHYS METALLURGY IIFRIMAY18:30-11:30AMDH A317
27442PLAST FRAC OF MTLSMONMAY48:30-11:30AMWEH 5205
27532MTL ASP SMCND DV IITHUAPR301:30-4:30PMSH 220
27552CERAMICS & GLASSESTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMWEH 5427
27780THERMODYNAMICSMONMAY41:30-4:30PMWEH 5403
27787FRACT BEHAV MATLSTHUAPR301:30-4:30PMWEH 5205

---------------------------------------------------

PHYSICSECONOMICS
33113PHYS MUSICAL SOUNDTUEMAY58:30-11:30AMDH2210
33116INTRODUCT PHYSICSWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMHHB103,HHB131
33121PHYSICS I MECHANICSWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMDH1212
33122PHYSICS II HT WV OPTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMDH2210,DH2315, PH 100
WEH7500,, MM 14
33123PHYSICS III EL MAGTUEMAY58:30-11:30AMWEH7500
33125INTRO TO ASTRONOMYFRIMAY18:30-11:30AMDH1112
33129ELECTRONICS ITUEAPR281:30-4:30PMPH225C
33131PHYSCL MECHANICS IITHUAPR305:30-8:30PMDH1112
33134MODERN PHYSICS IMONMAY48:30-11:30AMDH2315
33438INTRM ELEC & MAG IIMONMAY48:30-11:30AMWEH5403
33442INTRO STAT PHYSICSTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMWEH7316
33446WAVE MECHANICSTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMWEH8427
33448INTRO SOLID ST PHYSFRIMAY18:30-11:30AMWEH7316
33756 QUANTM MECHANICS IITHUAPR308:30-11:30AMWEH6423
33760INTRO THEO PHYS IIMONMAY45:30-8:30PMWEH7316
33761CLASSCL ELCTRODYN IMONMAY48:30-11:30AMWEH7316
STATISTICS
36210PRB AP STA MG SSIIWEDMAY61:30-4:30PMDH2210,DH2315,PH10036212PRB AP ST PH S&EIITHUAPR308:30-11:30AMPH19C36219STAT MTH DATA ANITHUAPR308:30-ll:30AMPH126A36226INTRO PRB & STATIITHUAPR308:30-11:30AMADAMSON,PH125C,PH225C36326PROB & MATH STATIIWEDMAY61:30-4:30PMPH125C36402ADV DATA ANALY IIWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMPH225C36410ELEM APPL PROBABLTYTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMDH1212
BIOMEDICAL ENGINEERING
42500 PHYSIOLOGY WED MAY 6 1:30-4:30PM WEH 5427
42735 PHYSIOLOGY WED MAY 6 1:30-4:30PM WEH 5427
ARCHITECTURE
48125STRUCTURESFRIMAY11:30-4:30PMPH 21
48143DESIGN MANAGEMENTTHUAPR 301:30-4:30PMCFA 211
48325LAND DES SGHT CNSTRTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMCFA 211
48330SPFCTNS PROJ MNGR.MONMAY41:30-4:30PMDH 4307
48371F SCHINKEL NEO-C MSFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMHL SEMINARROOM
48378CHURCH AND TOMBFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMHL SEMINARROOM
48394THEORY & CRITICISMWEDMAY61:30-4:30PMCFA 206
48516PROFESSNL PRACTICEWEDNAY68:30-11:30AMCFA 211
DESIGN
51201DES PRNC HST OF DESTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMSH 125
MUSIC
57100HARMONY FOR NON-MJRWEDMAY68:30-ll:30AMHR 12757101SOLFEGE FOR NON-MJRFRIMAY15:30-8:30PHHR 12757102EURHYTH FOR NON-MJRTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMHH 11957109ELEMENTARY THEORYMONRAY41:30-3:30PMCFA 16057122GERMAN DICTIONFRIRAY18:30-11:30AMCFA 15757123THEORYWEDRAY61:30-4:30PMCFA 16057166EURHYTHMICS VIMONRAY41:30-4:30PMHH 11957176SOLFEGE MUS THEA IITUEAPR281:30-4:30PMHH 12757203HISTORY OF MUSIC IIFRIRAY11:30-4:30PMCFA 16057205HISTORY OF MUSIC IVTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMCFA 16057223THEORYTHUAPR308:30-ll:30AHCFA 160
57256TONAL COUNTERPOINTTUEAPR285:30-8:30PMCFA 16057258 20TH CENT TECHNQUESTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMCFA 15757266FUGUEFRIHAY11:30-4:30PMCFA 157
57334 CHOR/INSTR CONDUCTMONHAY43:30-5:30PMCFA 16057344INSTRRNTL METHODSFRIHAY18:30-11:30AMHH 11957345INSTRMHTL METHODSTUEAPR281:30-4:30PHHH 119
57348ELCTR & CMPT MUS IITUEAPR281:30-4:30PHCFA 16057375MUSIC ELEM SCHOOLWEDRAY68:30-11:30AMHR 11957809MUSIC OF STRAVINSKYMONRAY45:30-8:30PMCFA 157
INDUSTRIAL ADMINISTRATION
70101ELEM INDUSTRL ADRINTUERAY58:30-11:30AMPH 225C
70121FINANC ACCOUNTING
AMONRAY48:30-11:30AMADAMSON
BMONRAY48:30-11:30AMMR 103
CNONRAY48:30-11:30AMDH 1112
DMONMAY48:30-11:30AMHR 14
70160INTR GRA CMNCTNS IFRIRAY15:30-8:30PMPH 19A
70193PRINT PROC SCIENCESFRIRAY15:30-8:30PMPH 125C
70312ORGNZTN BEHAVIOR II 
ATHUAPR308:30-11:30AMPH 20
BTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMPH 21
70340BUSINESS COHHUNCTNSTHUAPR301:30-4:30PMSH 422
70361FOUNDATIONS OF LAW
ATHUAPR305:30-8:30PHADAMSON
BTHUAPR305:30-8:30PHPH 100
CTHUAPR305:30-8:30PHPH 125C
70363LAW NDRN AMER SOC
AFRIRAY11:30-4:30PMWEH 7500
BFRIMAY11:30-4:30PMWEH 5427
70371PRODUCTION I
AFRIMAY18:30-ll:30AHPH 19C
B,CFRIMAY18:30-11:30AMWEH 7500
DFRIMAY18:30-11:30AMPH 125C
70381MARKETING I
BTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMPH 19A
CTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMPH 19C
70391FINANCE I
AMONMAY45:30-8:30PMSH 125
B,C,DMONHAY45:30-8:30PMDH 2210
70401MANAGEMENT GAMEWEDHAY61:30-4:30PHWEH 7500
70411LEADERSHIPTUEAPR281:30-4:30PMPH 19A
70422COST ACCOUNTING
ANONMAY48:30-11:30AMPH 225C
BNONMAY48:30-11:30AMPH 126B
70453SYST ANALY 6 DESIGNFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMGSIA 9
70520PUBLICITY PUB RELMONMAY41:30-4:30PMHR 408
70632PRINTING ENGR CNTRLTHUAPR301:30-4:30PMPH 20
73100 PRINC OF ECONOMICS
A,B,C,E,FTUEAPR285:30-8:30PHPH100, WEH7500
G-HTUEAPR285:30-8:30PMDH2210, DH2315
73250INTERMED MICROECON
BTUEAPR285:30-8:30PHPH20
CTUEAPR285:30-8:30PHPH21
DTUEAPR285:30-8:30PHPH125C
73300INTERRED HACRECON
AFRI HAY11:30-4:30PHPH125C
BFRIHAY11:304:30PHSH125
CFRIHAY11:30-4:30PHDH1212
73340LABOR ECONOMICSTUEHAY51:30-4:30PHSH125
73354LAW AND ECONOMICSHONHAY41:30-4:30PHADAMSON
73360ECONOMETRICSFRIHAY15:30-8:30PHPH100
73458RONEY AND BANKINGTUEAPR285:308:30PHPH225C, PH226C
ENGLISH
76101 READING TEXTS
KTHUAPR301:30-4:30PHPH107B
76230BBLCL HYTH BKGR LITWEDHAY68:30-ll:30AHADAMSON
76244SHAKESPEAREHONHAY45:308:30PHADAMSON
76245SHAKESPEARETHUAPR308:30-11:30AMBH229B
7632120TH CENTURY POETRYFRIHAY11:30-4:30PMBH235B
76346RESTOR 18TH C WRITTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMBH235B
76351AMERICAN INNOCENCEWEDHAY68:30-11:30AlfBH235B
76371RHETOR SOC INTERACTTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMBH237B
76431IBSEN & CHEKHOVTUEAPR288:30-11:30AMBH235B
76432JOYCEFRIHAY15:30-8:30PMBH255B
76751AMERICAN INNOCENCEWEDHAY68:30-ll:30AHBH235B
76771RHETOR SOC INTERACT
BTHUAPR308:30-11:30AMBH237B
76826PEDAGOGY OF WRITINGFRIHAY18:30-11:30AMBH231A
76831IBSEN & CHEKHOVTUEAPR288:30rll:30AMBH235B
HISTORY
79100 HOW HISTORIANS THNK
ATUEAPR288:30-ll:30AHBH231BBTUEAPR288:30-ll:30AMBH131ACTUEAPR288:30-ll:30AMPH225B79104
79120
INTRO TO WORLD HIST 
DEV OF AHER SOCIETY
FRIHAY18:30-ll:30AMDH2210, DH 2315
ATUEMAY55:30-8:30PMPH125B
B,ETUEHAY55:30-8:30PHPH225C
CTUEHAY55:30-8:30PHBH237B
DTUEHAY55:30-8:30PHBH231A
FTUEHAY55:30-8:30PHPH19A79150FRESH HSTRY SEHINARTHUAPR301:30-4:30PHBH254A79201THE NUCLEAR ERAROMHAY45:30-8:30PHWEH 750079205FRKS RED LF CRUSADETUEAPR281:30-4:30PHBH255A79208HST S AFR HOUSE DIVFRIHAY15:30-8:30PHPH225B79221HSTRY AHER URB LIFEHONHAY48:30-ll:30AMPH225B79223HDRN LATIN AMERICAHONHAY41:30-4:30PHBH235A
79225RIOTS REVOLU REVOLTTUEAPR281:30-4:30PHPH125C79229RELIG SOC AMER EXPWEDHAY61:30-4:30PMBH231B79235SEX AND DEATHTHUAPR301:30-4:30PHPH19A79249PWR RIGHTS AH CONSTTUEHAY58:30-11:30AHBH237B79301DATA HOT APPL HSTRYHONHAY48:30-ll:30AMBH229B79313PROFESS IN SOCIETYWEDHAY68:30-ll:30AHPH125C79324AFRO-AHER HIST IITUEAPR281:30-4:30PHPH22
79332CHINA TODAYRONHAY45:30-8:30PHBH235A79344HSTRY HDRN WARFARETUEHAY55:30-8:30PHPH125C
79350HIST OF AMER SPORTSTHUAPR301:30-4:30PHPH225C79366EUROP CULT LIFESTYLTHUAPR305:30-8:30PHPH2079371SOV UN SINCE STALINFRIRAY11:30-4:30PHPH19C79442SEM PUB AFF SOC PROTHUNO.301:30-4:30PHBH231B
PHILOSOPHY
80230ETHICAL THEORYTUEMAY55:30-8:30PMPH126C
80253HIST OF HDRN PHILOSTUEAra281:30-4:30PMPH126B
80260AESTHETICSTUBMAY51:30-4:30PMOH231580311LOGIC ARTFCL IMTELLMONMAY48:30-11:30AMSH125
MODERNLANGUAGE PROGRAM
82102ELEMENTARY FRENCHTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMPH125B
82103PROGRAMMED FRENCHTUBMAY55:30-8:30PMPH100
82122ELEMENTARY GERMANTUEMAY58x30-11:30AMPH125C
82123PROGRAMMED GERMANTUEMAY51:30-4:30PMPH225C
82142ELEMENTARY SPANISHFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMBH226C
82143PROGRAMMED SPANISHWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMPH100
82162ELEMENTARY ITALIANTUEAPR281:304:30PMPH225B
82172ELEMENTARY JAPANESEMONMAY41:30-4:30PMPH226B
82202INT FRENCH CULT SOCFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMBH231A
82203INTER PRGRMD FRENCHTUEMAY58:30-11:30AMBH231B
82222INT GERMAN CULT SOCFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMBH235A
82242INT SPANISH CUL SOCMONMAY45:30-8:30PMPH226C
82262INTERRED ITALIANTUBAra281:30-4:30PRPH225B
82272INTERRED JAPANESEWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMPH226B
82302FRENCH CONVER COMPWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMBH235A
82322GERMAN CONVER COMPFRIMAY18:30-11:30AMPH226C
82416STUDIES FRENCH LITMOMMAY45:30-8:30PMPH226B
82430GERMAN LIT 20TH CWEDMAY68:30-11:30AMPH226C
82456ST SPAN LAT AM LITTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMPH126A
PSYCHOLOGY
85100COG PROC THEO PRACMONMAY45:30-8:30PMDH2315
85211COGMTV PSYCHOLOGY
ATUEMAY51:30-4:30PMPH19C
BTUEMAY51:304:30PMPH19A
85221PRINC CHILD DVLPMNTFRIMAY11:30-4:30PMPH225C
85241SOCIAL PSYCHOLOGYFRIMAY18:30-ll:30AMPH225C
85261ABNORMAL PSYCHOLOGY 
AFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMADAMSON
BFRIMAY15:308:30PMPH225C
85340RSCH MTHDS SOC PSYNONMAY45:30-8:30PMBH336B
85423COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTTHUAPR305:30-8:?0PMBH340A
85444INTRPRSNL RELATNSHPFRIMAY15:30-8:30PMBH340A
85541CORE COURSE SOC PSYFRIMAY18:30-ll:30AMBH336B
85723COGNITIVE DEVELPMNTTHUAPR305:30-8:30PMBH340A
85741CORE COURSE SOC PSYniMAY18:30-ll:30AMBH336B
85744INTRPRSNL RELATNSHPFRIMAY15:30-8:30PHBH3*0A
SOCIAL AND DECISION SCIENCES
88101 SOCIAL INFLUENCE TUE APR 28 8:30-ll:30AM DH 2210, DH 1212, PH 100,
ADAMSON, PM 125C 
88201 INFORMATION SYST II MON MAY 4 1:30-4:30PM PH 100
88223 DEC AN DEC SUP SYST TUE MAY 5 8:30-11:30AM PH 100
88302 BEHAV DECISN THEORY FRI MAY 1 1:30-4:30PM PH 226B
88425 REGULATORY PROCESS THU APR 30 5:30-8:30PM PH 223D
88442 BCON OF ENTERPRISE RON RAY 4 8:30-11i30AM PH 19A
88702 BEHAV DECISN THEORY FRI RAY 1 1:30-4:30PR PR 226B

---------------------------------------------------

/c6NFj6T2
Propaganda in Amerika: The Red, White and Blue Menace
Americans should be used to idiocy on network TV by now. But with the upcoming 14 1/2-hour miniseries, 
ABC-TV has outdone itself. Few people will be left 
unoffended by Amerika. The creators of the program 
have left few stones of ignorance and inaccuracy 
unturned.The premise of Amerika is to ask "What would it be 
like if the Russians took over the United States?" As a 
means to this questionable literary end, the program 
suggests that the Soviets, using United Nations Special 
Service Units as their occupying force, have just 
waltzed across the border from Central America (or is it 
Central Amerika?). They receive little or no opposition 
from Americans and once they're here, they manage to massacre Congress and subjugate the American 
populace. Let the raping and pillaging begin.
Given the delicate nature of relations between the two 
superpowers right now, and the constant finessing 
necessary just to keep the Strategic Arms Reduction 
Talks (START) going in Geneva, ABC has certainly 
abused its power to influence the general population by 
airing this miniseries. It is not unreasonable to assume 
that public opinion will be significantly swayed by this 
unrealistic, inaccurate portrayal of both nations.
The fact that any production studio would spend over 
$35 million to realize a project like Amerika is 
shocking. The fact that ABC is willing to spend over 
14 hours of their programming to air it is appalling. 
Protests to the offensive nature of the miniseries are 
manifesting themselves in numerous ways. Lee Iacocca 
cancelled S7 million worth of Chrysler ads during the 
program, saying that the patriotic nature of the ads 
would clash with the tone of the miniseries. Media 
mogul, Ted Turner plans to run public service, 
informational programming opposite Amerika on 
WTBS. Groups around the nation are pressuring ABC 
affiliates to provide time slots for educational spots 
during Amerika. Most of these efforts are meeting with 
little success. WTAE in Pittsburgh refused to even 
consider requests for public service spots made by a 
group of citizens opposed to the nature of Amerika.
Critics of the miniseries are labelling it as right-wing propaganda. But this criticism is too narrow. Amerika 
does indeed reek of propaganda, but it does not limit itself to commieand liberal-bashing. The series also 
makes a mockery of such right-wing strongholds as the 
defense establishment.
Liberals are screaming bloody murder because the 
series suggests that the reason for the ease of the Soviet 
takover is that a peace-loving atmosphere has swept the 
country and the will to resist the offensive has 
evaporated. One character in the program, our hero 
Devin Milford, says, "What most Americans assumed 
was impossible  acquiescence to being subjugated by a foreign power  has happened. It has happened 
subtly. We did not lose it on the field of battle  we lost 
it in our hearts. We lost it with our loss of purpose, our 
loss of vision. We lost it with our lack of courage and 
faith in our democratic system."
The United Nations is equally displeased with the 
tone of the program, which portrays the U.N. as a 
pawn of an expansionist Soviet Union. The U.N. 
Special Service Units are shown engaged in such 
activities as house-burning, rape and running over 
civilians with tanks. They are the real bad guys of the 
miniseries. Adding insult to ignorance is the fact that the 
UNSSU in Amerika wear Naziesque, black uniforms, 
and the Soviet commanders constantly talk about 
"finding a solution to the American problem." This illaimed allusion to Hitler is ludicrous since Communism 
and fascism are as diametrically opposed as two 
ideologies can be.
The United Nations Secretary-General appealed to the 
Chariman of the Board of ABC, but his complaints 
about the damaging portrayal of the U.N. fell on deaf 
ears. The U.N. is now considering legal action for 
illegal use of the U.N. logo, which is used in the flag of occupied America (a hammer and sickle, the stars and 
stripes, and globe and olive branch of the U.N.). They 
may even try to stop overseas distribution of the film.
The Department of Defense should be displeased with 
their role as impotent boobs, who are powerless to stop 
the Soviets, and end up surrendering with hardly a 
fight. Then again, Amerika will probably exponentially 
increase support for new and expensive defense 
programs.
visr s^
Letters:
Carnegie Mellon Employee Criticizes Contract Offer From University
Editor:
Hopefully we can shed some 
light on the present contract 
negotiations that are going on 
between CMU and the Local 29 
Union made up of Physical plant 
and Food Service employees. To 
look at the offer from the 
University to Local 29, one would 
think that CMU is doing all their 
employees a great service by just 
offering them a contract. Lisa 
Wiedman, Vice President for 
Business Affairs Fred Rogers' 
person in charge of negotiations, is 
telling Local 29's representatives 
that CMU will get concessions 
from the union because, and this is 
a quote, "We are in a depressed area 
with people out of work. Everyone 
is giving concessions and we want 
concessions from you."
Let's look at this contract offer: 
Sick and Accident Ben
efits:
CMU is offering something that 
the members are not even pushing 
for. Why then, you ask, is CMU 
making this "Substantial offer?" 
One main reason is that very few, 
if any people will need to use it, 
so the cost to CMU is next to 
nothing.
Sick Leave:
This is an area in which the 
University is seeking its greatest 
concessions from the employees 
that have been working at the 
University the longest. Let's look 
at this offer. Years ago when the 
Pittsburgh economy was doing 
very well, the University said that 
it could not pay the going rate for 
services that the people performed 
for the university, so the 
University offered benefits that if 
the employee remained, he or she 
would be compensated later on in 
his or her life with better sick 
benefits. That was 25 years ago. 
Fred Rogers is now saying that
they don't need these benefits. The 
University is saying let's change 
the rules. Remember that the work 
most of the people in Local 29 do 
is physical and after doing this 
type of work your body starts to 
break down. One painter over the 
past five years has had two major 
operations resulting in major time 
off. Without the sick time he 
earned over the years, this man 
would have been in financial 
difficulty. The bottom line is that 
these people gave up money to get
these benefits and the University 
now wants to have its cake and eat 
it too. What Fred is saying is 
"SCREW 'EM" even though the 
University made a 24.5 percent 
profit last year and most of these 
people have given the University 
25-30 years of service.
The Pension:
The pension under the new offer 
is what its always always been: 
lousy. If our pension is so great
why do Fred and Lisa have a 
continued on page 16
Student Criticizes Definition of Editor as Censor
Editor:
After reading Mr. Ruiz's letter 
supporting Attorney General 
Meese's crusade against 
pornography ("Grad Student 
Defends Meese Commission and 
Censorship," The Tartan, February 
3), I became very apprehensive. If 
he represents the future of our 
nation, then the nation will 
become a nice place to visit, not to 
live in.
I must agree with Mr. Ruiz on 
but one point, that no clear 
connection was made by Poller 
between the list of the censored 
books and Attorney General 
Meese. A "challenged book," 
which Mr. Ruiz inquired about, is 
one which has been challenged in a 
court of law at one time or another 
on bases ranging from 
pornography to religion to racism.
The point Mr. Ruiz made 
regarding the editor's power of 
censorship is absolutely frivolous. 
Any self-respecting editor would 
know better than to censor a letter 
on political or ideological grounds.
If an editor wishes to make his or 
her opinion known, he or she will 
do so through a column called, 
appropriately, the editorials. The 
duty of an editor (I guess) is to 
determine what is fit to print given 
the local community standards, not 
to censor controversial political 
views.
Mr. Ruiz likens publications 
such as Playboy or Penthouse to 
drug addiction. If Mr. Ruiz gets off 
on the pictures in the magazines, 
that is fine with me. But believe it 
or not, there are actually words in 
the magazines. I certainly hope 
that I'm not the only person who 
picks up Playboy for movie, 
record, and book reviews, fiction 
by such pomographers as John 
Updike, interviews with 
pornographic figures like Phil 
Collins, and even articles about 
pornographic automobiles. Do I 
really need this to keep me going 
as if it was an addictive drug? You 
bet! If I need a good laugh, I pick 
up a Penthouse and read a "Forum" 
continued on page 15

---------------------------------------------------

February 10,1987The TartanPage 15
Reagan V Pals: Hypocrisies, Double-talk, Lies and Idiocies
By PAUL SMITH
For the last few months it's been pretty 
difficult not to notice all the Reagan 
administration's hypocrisies, double-talk, 
straightforward lies, and blatant idiocies 
spewing out all over the political map in 
increasing profusion.... 
No, this isn't going to 
be a column about Iranscam. (And all the 
bullshit they're giving 
us about that is
5 , probably just to detractColumn attention from a
potentially more smelly mess-the 
possibility of the CIA's illegal support of
the Nicaraguan counter-revolutionaries for a 
couple of years.) There're lots of other places 
where the Great Communicator and his 
groveling aides (at least those that haven't 
yet resigned or been placed under 
investigation) clearly can't get their story 
straight.
Take for instance all those wonderfully 
brazen and ironic moments in II Duce's State 
of the Union speech. Ronaldo, of all people, 
professes himself outraged by the federal 
budget deficit; Ronaldo, of all people, rants 
on against state-sponsored terrorism almost 
in the same breath as he urges Congress to 
throw more money into the evil hands of the 
contras. And elsewhere, you remember all II
Prof Criticizes Senate Policy. Says Fund Political Clubs
Editor:
I want to take issue with th Student 
Senate policy regarding the ineligibility of 
political organizations for funding by the 
Senate. This policy has recently resulted in 
the loss of funding for the Objectivist Club 
and was endorsed in a Tartan editorial Feb. 3. 
What's wrong with being a political 
organization? Why is it desirable, morally, 
intellectually or educationally that political 
organizations not be funded?
To my knowledge, which is based upon 
reading the Tartan and talking to numerous 
students, no one has provided an explicit 
argument, much less a good argument, in 
support of the Senate's exclusionary policy. 
Let me hazard a guess as to what the 
argument might be on the basis of the 
Tartan editorial mentioned above. The 
editorial says that the Senate by-laws provide 
"a pat reason to reject funding requests for 
groups that may be objectionable, like neonazis, or groups that support a candidate" 
(my emphasis). I agree that neo-nazi groups 
are morally objectionable, though I seriously 
doubt that the activity of supporting 
political candidates is in itself objectionable. 
Support for particular candidates or policies 
might very well be objectionable, morally 
speaking, but that hardly casts doubts on the 
activity in general. So even if some political 
groups engage in objectionable activity, it is 
not the case that political support for 
candidates per se is objectionable. But 
granting that some groups are objectionable 
or engage in objectionable activities, what 
follows with respect to what the Senate 
policy should be? Not much, I think. Why 
is "objectionableness" of whatever kind  
moral, intellectual or aesthetic  a good or 
sufficient reason for excluding any, much 
less all, political organizations from Senate 
funding? I can think of many organizations 
and activities that one or another group of 
students might find quite objectionable. 
Minority student organizations are likely to 
be objectionable to racists or other kinds of 
bigots. Opponents of violent or macho 
behavior might object to certain kinds of 
sports clubs. Luddites, if there are any on 
this campus, might really find the Computer 
Club objectionable. So what? Should all of 
these organizations be excluded from funding 
because some or even many students judge 
them, or organizations like them, 
objectionable? What would be left in the 
category of unobjectionable organizations?
Why is it that political organizations are 
singled out and assigned a second-class 
status, where they are unworthy of financial 
support that other organizations receive? Are 
political beliefs, commitments, activities 
and conflicts less important in our lives, less 
serious matter of moral and intellectual 
concern, less fruitful sources of meaning, 
reflection, and growth in our lives? I very 
much doubt it. To the contrary, I think that 
the flourishing of political organizations 
with the aid of Senate funding would be a 
welcome contribution to the moral and
intellectual life of the campus community. 
People would be challenged to think, to 
justify their political beliefs and to confront 
and respond to views opposed to their own. 
How could this be an undesirable state of 
affairs at an institution committed to 
education and critical reflection and inquiry?
It might be argued that political 
organizations are still able to participate in 
campus life by raising their own funds and 
that funding from the Senate is available for 
specific speakers and forums. But this will 
not do as a response. First, it still leaves 
political activity with an unjustified secondclass status. (Why are students engaged in 
political activity less worthy of support 
than, say, those who play rugby?) Second, it 
ignores the importance of Senate funding for 
many student organizations. Some would not 
exist were it not for such funding and others 
would function in a much more limited 
capacity without such support. Third, 
however worthwhile the funding of 
occasional speakers and forums may be, such 
activities do not contribute in the same way 
as ongoing student organizations. Activities 
and interpersonal contact which are typical of 
organizations that meet on a regular basis 
provide forms of participation and 
enjoyment, and develop capacities, 
sensibilities and understanding, that 
occasional evenings with VIPs do not. 
(Imagine taking away the Baseball Club's 
funding and offering a talk or clinic with 
Pete Rose once a semester as a substitute.)
I have no doubt that if political 
organizations were offered the same support 
as other student organizations the results 
would include a more stimulating, 
thoughtful and critical educational 
environment. Of course, not everyone will 
value such results. But the overall benefits 
are, I hope, reasonably clear. Thus, I urge the 
Senate to reconsider its current policy. Fund 
the Objectivists and other political clubs.
Ernie Alieva 
Assistant Professor of Philosophy
Playboy and Penhouse: Not Just Pictures
conitnued from page 14
story about how some hapless engineer 
finally gets laid. If I feel bored, I READ the 
pornographic interviews, the record/book/mo
vie reviews, articles, and fiction. That is not 
to say that I necessarily do all of those 
things, just some.
Mr. Ruiz alleges that the magazines 
(Playboy and Penthouse, to name a few) are 
motivated by profit. I don't know what he 
calls it, but I call it capitalism. I invite Mr. 
Ruiz to ask the Objectivist Club about it 
sometime.
The Yuppie Leftist
Duce's heartfelt concern about the massive 
drug problem in the United States? And 
what, then, about the equally massive cuts 
he's proposing in drug programme funding? 
The list goes on and onthe depressing 
result of electing the sorriest president ever 
to have been carved out of a banana.
In my opinion, you can't these days look 
approvingly at II Duce's "achievements" and 
still claim to have much more than a quarter 
of a brain in your head. But the way things 
are going you probably won't need much 
more than that fractionall the women in 
your family will be able to Work for 
McDonald's and all the men in your family 
can be trained to lay down laser-sensitive 
paths on a factory floor for artificial 
intelligence to follow. And, despite all his 
pieties about the sacrosanct value of 
education, II Duce, always on the ball and 
faithfully served by assorted thugs in the 
education department, has just made his 
proposals for starting up the appropriate 
education policy for the new age.
"Knowledge Revolution" is how I'd 
describe what II Duce wants. Not content 
with a rate of adult functional illiteracy in 
this country of as much as 25%, he'd make 
it higher. Not satisfied that most incoming 
undergraduates, even in an expensive place 
like CMU, couldnt point out, for example, 
Ireland on a world map, or tell you the 
difference between Michelangelo, Galileo, 
Shakespeare and Bach, Ronaldo seems to 
want even greater ignorance. Not happy 
enough with an enslaved population that, if 
you press the right button, will 
automatically sing "God Bless America" 
(without knowing who wrote it), he'd cut 
back even further on your educational 
opportunities.
I'm talking about II Duce's budgetary 
proposals for higher education (i.e. the kind 
of education you're supposed to be buying 
now). It's always seemed to me to be an 
outrage that in a democratic society the kind 
of education you get depends on what you 
can pay, but various systems of federal 
assistance for education have helped a little 
to remedy that basic condition of inequality. 
And I suppose that's why the current 
administration seems bent on destroying 
those systems.
O'Reagano has proposed huge percentage 
cut-backs in loan programmes, destruction 
of State Incentive Grant programmes, 
increase in Guaranteed Student Loan costs, 
cuts in Pell Grants, and elimination of
Supplementary Educational Opportunity 
Grants. Student eligibility for what will be 
left of all these programmes will be sharply 
circumscribed, and universities and colleges, 
most of them already under severe budget 
constraints, won't be able to make up the 
shortfall. It's difficult to estimate how many 
students and potential students would be 
affected by these cutbacks, but a rough guess 
would be about two and a half million every 
year. On top of that, hundreds of thousands 
would be affected by the proposed 
replacement of College Work Study 
programmes.
To add insult to injury, we have the 
spectacle of the like of Secretary of 
Education William Bennett yelling about 
how students abuse the beneficence of the 
federal government by vacationing in 
Florida; about how teachers don't know how 
to teach; and about how the whole moral 
tone of the nation has gone down the tubes. 
He'd have us all sit in front of an IBM/DoD 
computer screen learning how evil the 
Soviet Union is, with our brains plugged 
into a Walkperson playing a tape of his 
version of the constitution, our nether 
regions in chastity belts (except for frequent 
urine testing), and all be ready to serve God, 
Country, and II Duce.
Everyone knows (or once upon a time 
everyone knew) the old adage about 
education forming the basis of a strong 
democracy (I think they once even wrote it 
on a U.S. postage stamp, which must mean 
it's socially acceptable to repeat it here). 
Even if you're one of those people who has 
never looked farther than American-style 
"democracy" for the best form of 
government that human beings can aspire 
to, you might by now begin to suspect that
II Duce's ideas and your own aren't 
necessarily going in the same direction. 
Even John Silber, president of Boston 
University and one of the most right-wing 
men in the country, recently wrote a column 
in The New York Times denouncing 
Ronaldo's new proposals.
Which brings up a question. When its 
next currying favour with the Defense 
Department for some new artificial 
intelligence project, can we expect CMUs 
administration to use its clout to help 
protect the next generations of human 
intelligence?
Paul Smith is an Associate Professor in 
the English Department.
The Tartan
Albrecht Powell
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew Robitshek
Managing EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerDave LevyBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
Don GambleGlenn SchusterAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawRuss SeligmanLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAd Manager
Pam HornMary MurphyOlve Peersen
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerContributing Editor
John FriedmannJack Poller
Contributing EditorContributing Editor
The Tartan is the official student newspaper of Carnegie 
Mellon University. It is a weekly newspaper, published 
each Tuesday during the fall and spring semesters by 
students at no cost to members of the university 
community. It is printed by Typecraft Press, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for $15 per semester, $25 per 
year. The Editorial appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tartan editorial 
board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are not necessarily on The Tartan editorial board or staff 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the University community
A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number for 
verification. Names win be withheld upon request. The 
Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject any letter or 
column. Copyright 1966 by The Tartan. The edtonai 
board reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit tor publication.
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17/Carnegie Mellon
University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. A> rights reeerved
Library of Congress ISSN *: 0690-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanFebruary 10, 1987
Letter from the Soviet Union:
Soviet Students Ask Americans to Support a Nuclear Test Ban
The following is an open letter addressed to 
Student Senate from Novosibirsk University 
in the Soviet Union.
To the Members of the Student 
Council:
In September 1986 the members of the 
International Friendship Club of
Contract Gripes
continued form page 14
different pension plan? We think the whole 
pension plan should be brought up to the 
twentieth century. But we are willing to 
continue on with this two-tier system that is 
in effect at the university.
Vacation:
This is another area in which long-time 
employees of the university would get 
screwed. The employees gave up wages to 
get these benefits and now the University 
wants to do away with them.
Wages:
Increases of 1.5 the first year, 1.5 the 
second year and 2.0 the third year under the 
proposed contract is the University's offer. 
All the employees want is what the rest of 
the university received over the last three 
years, or lets put it another way - we will 
take the same pay raise that Fred, Lisa, and 
the rest of the management bargaining 
committee received: 10-15 percent for this 
year alone. Thats fair, don't you think?
Summary:
All the Local 29 wants is for the 
University to start bargaining in good faith. 
The univeristy is using part time employees 
at sub-union scale and benefits by having 
these people work 37 hours per week and 
forcing them to put up with the whims of 
substandard rules and regulations. The 
Univeristy has not even started to talk about 
work rules that they want to establish. They 
want the union to just go away - and have us 
trust them. When we receive a fair contract 
from the University we will come to an 
agreement that will provide continued great 
service to the students and staff of CMU. 
Again all we seek is fair and honest 
negotiations from the University. Since 
submitting its proposal to Local 29 on 
January 9, 1987 and having it voted down 
123-0, the school has refused to meet and 
continue bargaining. Local 29 has asked for 
a mediator to come in and settle this 
problem. Fred through Lisa said "No."
A member of the Local 29, 
Proudly serving CMU for over a 
quarter century
Novosibirsk State University launched a 
campaign for signing an appeal to support 
the extension by the USSR of the 
unilaterally introduced moratorium on all 
nuclear blasts.
About 1000 signatures have been collected 
and sent to the Daily World Editorial Board.
Enclosed you will find the text of the 
appeal which we hope will become known 
to the students of your university.
APPEAL TO AMERICAN STUDENTS 
The students of Novosibirsk State 
University are appealing to the students of 
America!
On the 18th of August this year the 
General Secretary of the CPSU Central 
Committee M.S. Gorbachev made a 
statement about an extension by the Soviet 
Union of its moratorium on all nuclear 
blasts till the end of 1986.
We, together with all of those who feel 
concern about the fate of each nation
separately and of mankind as a whole, 
welcome this step and emphasize the 
following.
More than a year ago we renounced 
unilaterally all nuclear tests hoping for a 
similar move on the part of your 
government, but our example was not 
followed. Moreover, President Reagan 
appears to have already made everything 
possible to demonstrate an unconstructive, 
illogical approach of the American 
administration to this vital issue of the 
present time.
We are convinced of this: it is unworthy 
of, just impossible for a reasonable man to 
"get used" to the idea of bringing nuclear 
weapons into play. Nuclear weapons, just as 
any other kind of weapons, have one 
destination: to kill people and to destroy 
what they have created, and one must not 
resign oneself to the thoughtless attitude of 
the U.S. ruling circles to the evil forces that
are now on the point of getting out of man's 
control.
We seek support and understanding on the 
part of the American student community, we 
rely on your political wisdom and 
consistency in your attitude towards the 
cause which is now bound to become 
common to the people the world over 
irrespective of any differences among them.
An introduction of a reciprocal moratorium 
by the U.S.A., a conclusion of an agreement 
imposing a ban on nuclear tests  that is 
what the present and future generations need 
and our signatures under these words are our 
hands that we stretch out to you for a 
friendly shake.
On a commission from the students 
of Novosibirsk State University, 
Secretary of the University 
Komosomol Committee 
V. P. Chuvakov
Analysis:
The Pros and Cons of a Nuclear Test Ban
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Like all issues that surround nuclear arms 
and the control of them, the question of a 
nuclear test -ban is complex. Those who 
oppose the ban defend their position as 
rigorously as those who want to see nuclear 
testing end. The issue warrants more indepth examination than the above letter 
offers.
Since Reagan came to office, the number 
of nuclear tests has increased significantly; 
exactly how much is classified. Generally 
accepted figures suggest that about 18 tests 
take place annually in Nevada. Each new 
warhead requires about six tests, culminating 
culminating in one major test prior to 
certification of the warhead. The Soviet 
unilateral moratorium on all nuclear testing 
began in the summer of 1985, after they 
finished an extensive series of tests.
Reagan rejected the invitation to join the 
test moratorium. Instead, he decided to 
continue to observe an earlier treaty between 
the two nations which limits nuclear tests to 
bombs with a yield of 150 kilotons, (one 
kiloton is equal to the explosive force of 
1,000 tons of TNT). In addition, Reagan 
invited Soviet scientists to make yield 
measurements at U.S. test cites, in an effort 
to enhance the verification process.
The Soviet Union maintained the
moratorium through the end of 1986, but 
announced that it would renew testing after 
the first U.S. test in 1987. Last Tuesday, the 
first nuclear detonation of the new year took 
place at the test site in Nevada.
Those who oppose a test ban base their 
position on several arguments. They say that 
testing is necessary to verify the continued 
performance of older weapons in the 
stockpile. They also argue that testing is 
imperative because the laboratories must 
certify that a new warhead design functions 
properly before handing it over to the 
military for deployment. Without testing, 
they argue, such guarantees would not be 
possible. The need for new warhead designs 
also necessitates nuclear testing. 
Traditionally, the military designs the actual 
missiles and other delivery vehicles, and the 
scientists at the Lawrgnse Livermore 
National Labs or at the Los Alamos 
Laboratories develop a nuclear warhead to go 
inside of these weapons. If testing were 
stopped, the process would have to be 
reversed, with new delivery vehicles designed 
to fit around existing warhead specifications.
Proponents of a test ban argue that the 
main reason for conducting nuclear tests is 
to develop new, smaller weapons. They 
argue that these small weapons are 
destabilizing because they make verification 
difficult and therefore should not be
deployed. Further, they aruge that testing to 
ensure that warheads are still functional is 
not a valid reason for testing. If both sides 
were uncertain about the ability of their 
warheads to perform, then they would think 
twice before carrying out a first use of 
nuclear weapons.
Advocates and opponents alike agree that 
there are four areas of arms development 
which require actual nuclear detonations. 
These tests cannot be simulated with 
computers or conventional explosives. The 
four areas are (1) testing the trigger that sets 
off the nuclear chain reaction, (2) testing 
prior to certifying that a warhead works 
before it is deployed to the military, (3) 
simulating nuclear attacks to test the 
survivability of other weapons in our 
arsenal, and (4) researching third generation 
nuclear weapons concepts. Star Wars is a 
prime example of a third generation weapon.
In addition to those who support a ban and 
those who oppose .the idea, there is a third 
group which opposes discussion of the test 
ban issue. These people argue that the issue 
of a comprehensive test ban is merely a 
smoke screen to distract attention from the 
real goal of reducing the actual number of 
nuclear weapons in existence.
The Soviets have not yet responded to the 
test conducted last Tuesday. It remains to be 
seen if the unilateral ban will be extended.
The text of the offer made by the University to Local 29...
As you know, talks regarding a new labor 
agreement have been under way between the 
University and Local 29 representatives since 
October 1986. In this memo, I will describe 
the University's final proposal which you 
will be considering. We believe this is a 
good and fair proposal and urge you to accept 
it.
Terms of the Contract:
The proposed contract terms would be 
effective retroactively to December 1, 1986 
and the contract would, as usual, cover a 
three year period through November 30, 
1989.
Sickness and Accident Benefits: 
Sick Leave 
Sickness and accident benefits (available to 
all regular full-time bargaining unit 
employees even in the first year of 
employment) will increase substantially. 
The amount of benefit will increase from 
$90 to $125 per week (a 39% increase and 
the duration will increase from a maximum 
of 13 weeks to 26 weeks. For employees 
hired before January 1970, the amount of 
benefit will increase from $60 to $125 per 
week to a maximum of 26 weeks.
In general, these improvements in sickness 
and accident benefits mean greater protection 
for you whether you are a new employee 
who has not yet accrued any sick leave or 
whether you are a long service employee 
wondering what would happen if you ever 
had to use all your accrued sick leave.
Sick leave provisions will be standardized 
for everyone. All members of the bargaining 
unit will earn five days of sick leave per 
year, which is an increase from four for 
everyone hired after December 1969. And, 
sick leave will be available on the second 
day of any sickness.
Employees hired before January 1970 will 
not lose the sick leave they had previously 
accrued: their sick leave as of December 1,
1986 will be the same amount they had on 
their last employment anniversary before the 
new contract.
Health Insurance:
As in the previous contract, employees 
will be asked to share in one quarter of any 
increases (or decreases) in the cost of Blue 
Cross/Blue Shield health insurance coverage.
Where an emplyee currently contributes 
$5.25 per month for Blue Cross/Blue Shield,
beginning July 1987, the monthly 
contribution may be increased but will not 
exceed $15 per month. Based on past 
experience, we expect contributions to be 
closer to $7 per month.
Beginning July 1988 the monthly 
contribution will be at least $10 dollars but 
will not exceed $20 per month. Based on 
experience we expect contributions to be 
closer to $10.
Beginning July 1989 the monthly 
contribution will be at least $15 but will not 
exceed $25 per month. Based on experience 
we expect contributions to be closer to $15.
Alternatively employees may choose 
HealthAmerica coverage or Central Medical 
coverage which are expected to continue to 
be available at no cost or very little cost to 
the employee.
Pension:
Higher pension benefits are expected as a 
result of the University continuing to 
contribute $.47 per hour and recent pension 
plan changes.
Vacation:
Under the proposed contract, employees
will be eligible to earn an annual vacation 
entitlement up to a maximum of four weeks. 
However, employees who are already entitled 
to more than four weeks of annual vacation 
will keep their present higher annual 
entitlement, with no further increase.
Wages:
Wages will increase in December of each 
year of the proposed contract for a total 
increase of 5% over three years.
Summary:
We believe this proposal:
1) will provide you with important new 
benefit protection,
2) will continue to provide competitive 
wages, and
3) is necessary for the continued operation 
of quality cost-effective food service, grounds 
and maintenance functions by University 
personnel for the campus community.
This is a summary of the proposals which 
if accepted will be incorporated into the 
written agreement between Local 29 and 
Carnegie Mellon, but in all cases the actual 
agreement will be the governing document.

---------------------------------------------------

ltTNajtm
Restaurant Review:A Spicy Delight
By LESLIE E. GERSTENFIELD
Tartan Staffwriter 
Looking for a place to take your Sweetie 
on Valentine's day? Don't have a Sweetie but 
looking for a place to go with others who 
have no Sweeties so you can all forget about 
not having Sweeties? Tired of Kiltie food? 
Have a sinus problem that you want to clear
bringing a straw.
Entering the restaurant is like entering the 
Taj Mahal. The decor and sitar music in the 
background provide the perfect setting for the 
meal to come. The service is a little slow (it 
took a loud throat-clearing from my 
roommate to get a menu) but worth the 
wait. The menu sports a large variety of
fantastic vegetable entrees, too!
Cool down after your mouth-buming meal 
with a cup of Lassi, a yogurt drink that 
comes sweet or salty, or with a bowl of 
Kulfeet, an ice cream type dish made with 
pistachios, raisins, and ginger. But 
remember to cool down! The food is 
dangerously spicy. Don't breathe on your
You can choose the hotness factor when you order, ranging from 
1 (mild) to 10 (too hot for any human being to survive). Even a 
factor of 5 is incredibly spicy though, so I would recommend 
renting a reservoir and bringing a straw.
up? If your answer was " yes" to any one of 
these questions, read on. (If not, read on 
anyway). Have I got the place for you!
The Star of India is a cute little restaurant 
on South Craig Street that serves authentic 
Indian cuisine at moderate prices. The food is 
tasty and different -- some things are more 
tasty than others, and some things are just 
darned different. But it's all SPICY!!! You 
can choose the hotness factor when you 
order, ranging from 1 (mild) to 10 (too hot 
for any human being to survive). Even a 
factor of 5 is incredibly spicy though, so I 
would recommend renting a reservoir and
dishes, from appetizers, soups and breads to 
desserts and hot or cold beverages. The 
selections are explained in English for those 
(like me) who don't know their tandoori 
from their briyani, and numbered for those 
(like me) afraid to pronounce "Channa Baji". 
There are luncheon specials (about $6) and 
dinner plates (about $10) which include a 
main dish, such as chicken curry, plus soft, 
pita-like bread (nan) and yogurt and eggplant 
dips(raita and dal). An assortment of regional 
dishes with beef, chicken, shrimp or lamb 
makes up the bulk of the menu, but don't 
despair, vegetarians, they serve some
friends, they'll melt. Don't yawn near the 
smoke alarm in your dorm, either!
The Star of India restaurant (open daily for 
lunch and dinner) is not for the weak of 
heart. Don't go if your idea of adventure is a 
Big Mac with everything on it. But if you're 
up for something exotic, go for it!
The Star of India is at 412 South Craig 
Street. To get there just walk down Forbes 
avenue towards Oakland and take a right turn 
at Craig Street. They are located on the left 
side of the street.
The prices are moderate and they accept 
most major credit cards.
The Next Time Someone Tells You To Go 
For A Hike, Do It With The Explorers
By KEI KURITA
Tartan Staffwriter
If you're looking for outdoor adventure, the 
Explorer's Club is for you. Members of this 
club can take part in a wide variety of 
outdoor activities throughout the year: 
anything from hiking and cross-country 
skiing to the more daring rock-climbing and 
kayaking. Members are genuinely given an 
opportunity to participate in what they want 
to do as frequently as they like. One could 
conceivably go camping one week, canoeing 
the week after, and backpacking the next. 
You don't even need prior experience to take 
part in any of the offers; you don't even need 
a lot of money.
How can all of this be possible? The 
procedure is simple enough: Once you 
become an official member of the Explorer's 
Club by paying a nominal fee ($3), you 
attend their weekly meetings in which they 
discuss what activities they want to do for 
that weekend. For example, suppose a bunch 
of you want to go cross-country skiing for 
the up-coming weekend. All you need is a 
couple of experienced skiers, a car, and the 
time and the willingness to ski.
Since most of the places are located outside 
Pittsburgh (and out of the state), one of the
constraints is finding the means of
transportation. Usually, one of the people 
who wants to go has a car on campus and 
can take the whole group to the site.
However, if nobody has a car, renting one 
becomes an alternative. There are safety 
precautions and the need for beginners to be 
assisted  these are the reasons why there is 
a need for people who have previously 
participated in the sport to attend the trip. 
The size of the group may vary since there 
are no limitations; it can range from four to 
a dozen. Furthermore, there are no
restrictions on the number of groups that go, 
so one group can rock-climb and another can 
go caving on the same weekend.
The advantage to having this system is that 
it allows you to participate in what you 
want to do at your own pace. These trips can 
be day trips or ones that last a couple of 
days, depending on how long you decide to
make it. During the beginning of the 
semester, when you're not as busy, you can 
plan trips that are longer. For example, 
during last fall's mid-semester break, some 
of the members went down to Seneca Falls 
in Virginia to camp out for a couple of days. 
If you have to do an exceptional amount of 
work during that weekend, you don't even 
have to go. Furthermore, it doesn't cost a lot -
- all the equipment you need is supplied by 
the club, so you dont have to rent anything. 
The only thing you might have to pay for is 
some of the gasoline.
There might be some doubt as to the safety 
of some of the more dangerous activities, 
such as rock-climbing, but in the club's 
history, only two accidents have been so 
serious that the members had to be taken to 
the hospital. And the clubs history is a long 
one-it was founded by Hugh D.
Young, an alumnus of Carnegie Mellon, 
now a Physics professor, when he was an 
undergraduate student.
If you were ever interested in participating 
in any of these activities but thought that 
you would never have a chance to, the 
Explorer's Club is the perfect opportunity. 
For the amount of money you have to pay 
to be a member of the club, you get a lot 
more in return. The equipment is supplied, 
experienced students are with you to assist 
and teach you, and the experience is 
invaluable. There are no restrictions to the 
number of the activits you can go on and 
the number of different activities you can do. 
If youre interested in becoming a member of 
the Explorer's Club (anyone in the Carnegie 
Mellon community is welcome), attend one 
of their meetings which are held every 
Thursday at 6:30 pm in Baker Hall 13IB.
State ALY yawiur
VffllkennftiinMS HMy
Citiparks and WAMO FM 106 are 
sponsoring a Sweetheart Skate under the 
starry night sky this Valentine's Day in 
the majestic and romantic surroundings 
of Schenley Park.
Love is in the air and hearts are on fire 
when Benetton clothing heats up the 
action with a premiere fashion show on 
ice, starting at 8:30 pm. Join the 
WAMO Hot Tracks Dancers as they 
model the latest Benetton collections to 
help beat the big chill.
Or just sit back and enjoy a warm 
mug of free hot cocoa courtesy of H.J. 
Heinz, and share it with your valentine. 
There will also be chocolate prizes 
courtesy of Bolan's Candy. Sgro's 
Restaurant will be giving away five free 
brunches for two if skating peaks your 
appetite. No purchase is necessary and 
the winner need not be present.
Admission is $1.50 and skate rental is 
only 75 cents.
If the weather isnt too good the 
Valentine's events will be held inside the 
Schenley Park Complex.
Up, Up d 
Away nn Valim= 
ifinnss ay9 1
Now on Valentine's Day the traditional 
gifts are flowers and chocolate, but in 
these trying days of health awareness the 
traditions of old can get a person into 
trouble. Especially when the other part 
of the couple is watching his or her 
weight or has hay fever (both guys and 
gals know what I mean).
So what can you give your valentine 
that won't give you too much trouble? 
How about a balloon? In fact, how 
about a few balloons?
Shops all over the world are starting to 
make available bouquets of balloons 
with whatever message you want to put 
on! So go out and look for a gift that 
will last longer than the chocolates and 
will still be around (well the balloon 
will still be around even if the helium 
goes) after the flowers have wilted away.
Up, Up ami 
Away m Valsiminnn@ say, iPmni 2
One of the most romantic spots on 
Valentine's Day in Pittsburgh has to be 
one of the overlooks at the top of the 
inclines. Both the Mononghela and 
Duquesne Inclines offer a beautiful view 
at a truly nominal price.
Now getting to the inclines can be a 
little difficult without a car but it can be 
done. Taking any of the buses that stop 
at Morewood will get you Downtown 
Then, just take any of the buses headed 
towards Station Square to get to the 
Mononghela incline.
To get to the Duquesne walk down the 
road behind Station Square for a mile, or 
take any number 21 bus from Smithfield 
Street.
If you get to the top of the Duquesne 
Incline, besides the observation deck 
there are a few restaurants that boast a 
beautiful view for the entire meal, but 
that will cost you, and do remember 
proper attire.
Happy Valentines Day

---------------------------------------------------

Pige 18The TartanFebruary 10,1987
Just in Time for Valentine's Day: The Tartan Love Quiz
By JUDY HARABURDA and 
JENNISEVERA
Tartan Staff Writers
For centuries poets and songwriters have 
been singing the praises of "true love." 
What do you think of this mystifying, 
elusive (for some) emotion? Do you believe 
in the "glory of love" or do you think "love 
is a battlefield?" Do you think Romeo and 
Juliet are star-crossed schmucks while 
Maddie and David capture the reality of 
romance?
When you see a member of the opposite 
sex and your knees turn to jell-o, your breath 
comes in gasps, and your stomach starts 
slam-dancing with your liver, do you think 
it's love or assume it's indigestion? In short, 
is love a Shakespearean sonnet or "For a 
good time, call..." scrawled on a bathroom 
wall?
A newspaper recently told the story of a 
seventy-year-old reclusive woman who was 
found dead in bed next to the skeletal 
remains of her 84-year-old boyfriend who had 
died two years earlier. He was in his 
longjohns, covered with palm fronds and 
rosaries, with two boxes of Valentine's Day 
candy nearby. That's our definition of true 
love.
How about you? To help you determine 
just what kind of relationship you have (or 
want), we've devised a sure-fire quiz -- with 
the help of Andy and Paul, two very 
insightful people we discovered on a bench 
outside of Doherty.
1. When you think of your main squeeze, 
what love song comes to mind?
a) You're the Inspiration by 
Chicago
b' Too Drunk to F-k by the Dead 
Kennedys
c) If I Didn't Love You I'd Hate 
You by Squeeze
d) Sunday Bloody Sunday by U2
e) Love songs died when Barry 
Manilow went out.
2. What Valentine gift would perfectly 
express your sentiments?
a) 1 dozen long-stem red roses and
a box of candy
b) edible underwear
c) never-say-never, moneyback-if-not-fully 
-satisfied makeover
d) his and hers combat boots
e) one year's subscription to
Abnormal Psychology Today
3. What is your ideal mate's pet name?
a) Snugglebuns
b) What is your name anyway...
c) My bloody Valentine
d) My little fascist
e) A pet name... uh... Rover
4. What is your ideal mate's favorite TV 
theme song?
a) What Would We Do Without Us
illustration by Kurt Shaw
(Family Ties)
b) Theme from Three's Company
c) Theme from Divorce Court
d) Theme from The Twilight Zone
e) The ticking stopwatch from 60
Minutes
5. What is your idea of a romantic dinner?
a) Candlelight for two, with
strolling violinists
b) Room service at Joe's Motel
c) Leftover carrot loaf with pea
sauce at Kiltie
d) Hungry Man TV dinners with a 
bottle of "Tah-steee Asti 
Spumanti"
e) Drive-thru at Mickey D's
6. What is your ideal mate's favorite 
expression?
a)"I love you, darling"
b) "Now babe"
c) "I don't care, what do you want
to do?"
d) "Let me run my fingers through
your mohawk"
e) "Oh gee-I don't know. Wild 
Kingdom is on tonight.
7. What is your ideal mate's favorite thing to 
do on a rainy day?
a) be with you
b) be with you at Joe's Motel
c) brood by the window
d) contemplate the intricacies of
gravity
e) hack 'til you drop
8. What does your ideal mate think the Tlike structure outside of Hunt Library is?
a)"Gee it's a place for a clandestine 
tete-a-tete for lovers in the 
rain"
b) "An ancient fertility symbol"
c) "Tomb for Joe Bob Briggs"
d) "It's a monolith"
e) "It's yet another A Phi O
service"
Now score yourself:
If you mostly circled "A" : You have
the ideal relationship with your ideal mate. 
Its so sweet it would give Ward and June 
Cleaver tooth decay!!!
If you circled mostly "B": You would
make Dr. Ruth blush. Keep up the good
work.
If you circled mostly "C": Does the 
phrase "Sayonora babe" mean anything to 
you?
If you circled mostly "D": We respect
the uniqueness that is you.
If you circled mostly "E": Loosen up.
Go for a walk on the wild side before you 
need a cane.
Whether you believe in love or not, have a 
better half, or are still looking, remember 
Tennyson said, "It's better to have loved and 
lost than never to have loved at all." But 
then again Aldworth didn't have a 3-to-l guyto-girl ratio!!!
SHOULD YOU BECOME A PRIEST?
Here's an opportunity to find out... A special program of "DISCERNMENT' for the college student is now being offered by the Catholic Diocese of Pittsburgh...
Weekend of March 6, 7, 8,1987 Topic - "The Priesthood"
Call Father Bob Clarke 412-928-5836
Artificial Intelligence
atSRI International
SRI INTERNATIONAL is a problem 
solving organization performing con
tract research and development for a 
wide variety of clients. We are a recog
nized leader in basic and applied re
search in Artificial Intelligence. The 
Engineering Research Group at SRI is 
looking for individuals to perform ap
plied research in the following areas:
 Automatic planning
 Reasoning under uncertainty
 Natural language understanding
 Distributed reasoning
 Image understanding
 Parallel AI architectures
 Real-time AI systems
SRI will be interviewing Masters and 
PhD level Computer Science and Elec
trical Engineering students for posi
tions in the above applied AI areas on:
Wednesday, March 4,1987
If interested, please sign up at the Place
ment Center.
If you are unable to take advantage of 
the interview sessions, please send your 
resume and cover letter discussing your 
interests to: Michael Patrick, Manager, 
Professional Staffing, Dept. CMU-87, 
SRI INTERNATIONAL, 333 Ravenswood Avenue, Menlo Park, CA 94025. 
U.S. Citizenship required. An equal op
portunity employer.
SRIL International.

---------------------------------------------------

February 10The TartanPage 19
personality Profiles: A Snapshot Of A Student, Two Times
Arnold "Ace" Shan
gy ELIZABETH SHERLOCK
Special to The Tartan
"What made you come HERE?" This is the 
usually the first question Arnold "Ace" Shan 
hears when he tells people that he is from 
Augsburg, West Germany. So many 
questions run through the mind as Ace 
reveals his interests in business with an 
engineering bias (he's a freshman majoring 
in Industrial Management - CIT track) and 
his opinions about the United States and 
Carnegie Mellon. "How did you become 
interested in business?" "What do you think 
of the United States?" "How is it different, 
here?" These answers will come in time, but 
now, I can't help but badger. "Yeah, but 
what made you come HERE?"
"A CMU Alumni us]. He's the director of 
government schools in Europe." In high 
school, Ace was encouraged by his principal 
to apply to Carnegie Mellon and in fact, he 
is now here on a U.S. Army scholarship. 
Although he plans to serve his time after his 
graduation, (following in his father's 
military footsteps) this determined eighteenyear-old has much bigger plans. His hopes 
for the future include a job as a broker for 
the London Commodities Exchange. Ace is 
very competitive; he chose Carnegie Mellon 
for its academics and has worked harder than 
ever before to prove himself to be a very 
respectable student.
But come on, Ace  everything can't be all 
that wonderful. Let's hear it!
"Well, I miss my mommy," he admits in a 
somber seriousness. He explains that it has 
been very difficult to be 5,500 miles from 
home. "My parents are psyched about CMU, 
but they don't like my being so far away." 
Ace came here over the summer with the CMAP program and he could not go home 
until Christmas Break. When does he think 
he'll be able to get back to Germany? He 
says that he won't be able to go home again 
until the end of the school year, but this 
time, he doesn't sound so remorseful. "I'm 
gonna get wild and loose". Are you 
suggesting that that is not the way here? So 
we really are a bunch of geeks, huh?
Ace insists this is not his idea. It's just 
that you have to work here and everyone is 
really serious. I've just learned how to party 
and to read books at the same time. Ace has
been very busy, but he did find time to walk 
onto the football team this fall and he hopes 
to be even better next year. So, is that what 
you're saying, Ace, we should keep busy and 
work hard,but never stop having fun? "Yeah. 
Be 'wild in moderation'. " So how is Europe 
different from the United States? Ace claims 
that he feels as if he's just as prepared 
academically as the students from America, 
but he has "the social advantage".
"Okay, Ace, what's the big deal?" I badger 
once more, this time on the defensive. 
"There's no drinking age and 
no speed limit and 
parties from nine 
until nine.
There's 
Rome,
London,
Paris 
and
Switzer
land. Need 
I say more?
Uh, I guess 
not. Well, I as
serted, I remember 
from when I went to 
Europe last spring that everyone 
told us we had to be all calm and composed 
and mature, especially about drinking. You 
guys sound like partying nuts! How do you 
account for this? "Well, everyone is 
responsible over there. If you drink, you 
never drive and there are never any fights." 
Pretty different. I must admit; I can't 
imagine.
So, all in all, what does he think? "CMU 
is fantastic. The faculty and academics are 
terrific and the students are really cool, but 
everyone needs to party the European way." 
Are you going to show us how, Ace? "Just 
wait until sophomore year!" he dares. Well, 
in the meantime, can I give out your address 
and phone number? "Sure, give out my 
address in Germany, if you want. Everyone 
is welcome." Well, what are you going to do 
with all these people over there? He doesn't 
seem very worried as he tosses out one last 
invitation, "Come to Europe and I'll show 
you how it's done!" Well, maybe we will, 
Ace, you better watch out!
David Svobada
By IRENE KAO
Tartan Staffwriter 
Many things in this world are imperfect. 
Carnegie Mellon is one of them; everyone 
has their complaints here and there about 
this university (too much work, not enough 
girls, food isn't appetizing, etc. the list 
goes on...). However, when David Svobada 
was asked if there were anything he would 
change at this university, he had to think for 
a while.
A freshman majoring in math, David is 
very content with his life at 
Carnegie Mellon. 
This school 
was a big 
name in 
Morgan
town, 
West 
Virginia 
which 
was his 
hometown 
for twelve 
years. Ever since 
he was young, Car
negie Mellon was a definite 
college choice. After Morgantown, 
he moved to Wichita, Kansas where he has 
lived for the past five years. Life in Wichita 
is very different from Pittsburgh. "Kansas is 
FLAT, and Pittsburgh isn't," he explains. " 
Also, there's a lot more going on here than 
in Kansas. We would be lucky if we had a 
concert every two or three months in 
Kansas, but here, there would be some sort 
of concert every three days!"
David describes himself as a loner in high 
school. When fall of 1986 came around, his 
goal was to improve his social life and he 
realizes he's making progress slowly. One of 
the reasons he is happy at this school is his 
change in attitude. Now, he likes to spend
more time with his friends than by himself.
Also, he doesn't complain much about the 
work load at Carnegie Mellon. All through 
high school, he was a diligent student. 
Although he admits he took all the blow-off 
courses his first semester here, he realizes 
that in order to do well, he has to put a lot 
of time in his studying. As mentioned 
before, David is double-majoring in abstract 
math because he loves it, and in applied 
math because he needs to get a job later on . 
His goals are to finish college and then go to 
graduate school for a doctorate in math.
"Next to math, music is really my life." If 
you pass Morewood lounge, most likely you 
will hear and see him playing the piano. Al
though the work load from second semester 
prevented him from continuing his piano les
sons, David still devotes most of his free 
time to practicing. He has been playing for 
twelve years and has strongly considered minoring in music. Not only can he play by ear, 
he also composes his own music which is a 
combination of classical and pop styles. Un
less people are interested in reading the 
score, he usually won't write down the 
music; he'd rather record everything on a 
tape. According to David, his forte is 
playing pop tunes. But he has recently 
discovered that he appreciates classical music 
more than he has in the past. His favorite 
classical composers are Gershwin, 
Kachatarian and Chopin. Killing Fields, The 
The and Depeche Mode are his favorite rock 
groups. Now, how's that for diversity? Not 
only is he an excellent pianist, David is also 
quite proficient on the violin. He has a lot of 
musical talent, and if he wasn't so busy, he 
would like to dedicate even more time to his 
music.
Oh, yes, David finally did think of 
something that he wasn't too happy about: 
"[the] Morewood piano is out of tune."
THE CARNEGIE TECH RADIO CLUB
VALENTINE'S RADIOGRAM
SEND VALENTINES DAY WISHES TO FRIENDS AND 
RELATIVES IN THE UNITED STATES, CANADA, MEXICO, 
AND OTHER COUNTRIES, THROUGH THE CARNEGIE TECH 
RADIO CLUB'S FREE MESSAGE SERVICE !
SIMPLY SEND YOUR MESSAGE IN TELEGRAM FORMAT 
TO AR99@TO AND WE WILL SEND IT VIA SHORTWAVE 
RADIO TO ITS DESTINATION.
SURPRISE SOMEONE THIS VALENTINE'S DAY WITH A 
GREETING THATS OUT OF THE ORDINARY !
JUST FINGER AR99@TO FOR FURTHER INFORMATION.
The Carnegie Tech Radio Club is Funded by The Student Senate
A Touch of Worth Avenue in Pittsburgh
o  2_ oo ' Q_ T3 CP Q
2-  
Tar r/ (7?GOot/fyut
nCCLN$vS9 iI29MliML9
CHINESE AND VIETNAMESE CUISINE 
4039 Penn Ave. Cd7.n^..* Pgh., PA 15224 
FREE DELIVERY 682-7853 free delivery to limited areas
ON AU ORDERS OVER $ 10.00 7 DAYS A WEEK 11:00 AM-*00 PMLUNCH BOX $3.15 DINNER MENU Available Until 9:00 p.m.-7=/pho u)byA ndGp u)byA iddl u)byA
Swoot and Sour Pork Pappor Sroak with Onion
Moonlight Hot A Spicy fork Curry Bool
Moonlight Hot A Spicy 
Chickon 
Swoot and Sour Chickon 
Curry Chickon 
Chickon with Snow Poo* 
Chickon with Broccoli 
Cordon Chickon 
Chickon Vogotohlo 
Chickon with poo nut 
Chickon with coshowt 
Chickon with almond* 
Moo Goo Goi PoneG=hs N=hw
Chickon Mod Rico______
Pork triad lie*__________
Boot Frtod Rico.......
Shrimp Friod Rico..............
Roost Pork with Broccoli 
Roost Pork with Snow Poos
Siochuon Pork
r7G=ac ^ utbAt
Spicy
Boot with Broccoli 
Roof with Snow Poos
-7df Td=o
J.*sLfl
1.IS
,4.fS
Pork Chow Moin.
Shrimp with Broccoli 
Shrimp with Snow Poo 
Shrimp with Coshows
.4^S.4.4.4.43
.Ml

---------------------------------------------------

WELCOME BACK
12& 16 PIZZA
14 TASTY ITEMS TO CHOOSE FROMPfPPE*ONieN*PPLE7vByDRUEM
ILACfAryCreONIONSSHEEN OtivESBACON*OT PEEPERScs
1216
Cheese$ 5.25. S 7.50
1 Item6 008.50
2 Items6.759.503 Items7.5010.504 Items8.2511^505 Items9.p012.50
FREE DELIVERY WITHIN 30 MIN*
 t0 MINUTE PICKUP 
STORE HOURSSUN THURS  PM1 AM FRI & SAT 4 PM2 AM683-0400FOUR STAR PIZZA
4740 Baum Blvd. PittsburghI
I FOUR SUR 
1 PIZZASSI 500 off
 ANY BIC 12" SliH
IIIM H SUt K( >11 II 
 ft
FDSl iTAl HgZZA
II o\i. coupon )b sub CJUPON IXI1RKS I 2 10X7a,
ANY BIG 12" SUB ANI) A KKKK 16/. CUP OK COKE
ONLY$4
683-0400PITTSBURGH
A BIG 12"THICK CRUST CHEESE PIZZA
COUPON SAVINGS $2.00
wi: OUNEDOTEK mi-: RKurr  WBU FWIGWB GUO GESSP 
CW REMEC WIO 6 6 FWIGWB U8GEOUN 
1URETUO POUP  I 2-io-x7
WE RESERVE THE RIGHT TO LIMIT OUR DELIVERY AREA
What do you think of shuttle and escort? Please let us know b"^ 
answering a few questions, then praise, criticize or express y0Ur * 
indifference in the space provided.
1. Do you ride escort? y n
a. If no, why not?
(Check all that apply.)
__No need.
__Had to wait longer than dispatcher's
estimated departure time from Skibo.
__Had to wait longer than estimated time
for pick-up from off campus (by 
dispatcher)*
c. If yes...
How often do you use escort?
__1-2 times/week
__3-5 times/week
_6-10 times/week
__11-13 times/week
__14 or more times/week
What's your opinion of escort 
service?
(Check all that apply.)
No complaints
__Often have to wait longer than
estimated departure time from Skibo.
__Often have to wait longer than
dispatcher estimated time for pick-up 
from off campus 
Other
2. Which of the following best 
classifies where you live?
(Circle one.)
1. on campus
2. Squirrel Hill
3. Shadyside
4. Oakland
Please print the closest street intersection: 
_______________and_______________
shuttle? y n
b. If no, why not?
(Check all that apply.)
__No need.
__Usually too crowded to board at
(please fill in times(s))
_No stop near desired off-campus 
destination^).
__Doesnt run on schedule
__Don't know when and where shuttle
runs.
Other
d. If yes...
How often do you use shuttle?
__1-2 times/week
__3-5 times/week
__6-10 times/week
__11-13 times/week
__14 or more times/week
What's your opinion of shuttle 
service?
(Check all that apply,)
__No complaints
__Often too crowded to board at
(please fill in times(s)).
__Nearest shuttle stop is far from final
off campus destination
__Doesn't run on schedule
__Printed schedule and route, along with
changes in these, are not readily 
available 
Other
3. If there were a walking escort between buildings on campus, would
you use it? y n
4. Do you feel safe with your current mode of transportation on and
off campus? y n
Any suggestions for shuttle or escort? Please write them below.
Please return this survey to the Info Desk by Tuesday, February 17. Survey by Student Senate
PERFORMERS / ENTERTAINERS
FOR CARNIVAL
THEME" BANDS 
COMEDIANS 
CARICATURE ARTISTS 
MIMES 
DANCERS 
OTHER??????
CONTACT: SPRING CARNIVAL ENTERTAINMENT COMMITEE 
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
ATTENTION! ATTENTION! ATTENTION!
THE CARNEGIE MELLON ACTION PROJECT (C-MAP) IS INTERESTED IN HIRING 
TUTORS FOR THE FOLLOWING COURSES:
21-121Calculus I
21-122Calculus <5e Linear Algebra
21-259Calculus in 3 Dimensions
21-260Differential Equations
21-258Optimization Social Science II
21-127Discrete Math Computer Science
18-133Introduction to Digital Systems
18-102Introduction to Electronic Devices & Circuits
18-218Linear Systems Analysis
18-102Intro Electrical Dev. Circuits
18-304Fluids Waves Transmission Lines
15-111Logic & Computations
15-118Intro to Computer Science
24-121Thermodynamics I
24-112Fluid Mechanics
24-202Mechanics of Deformable Solids
27-216Transport & Kinetics
27-131Intro to Material Science
31-123F*hysics III: Electricity & Magnetism
33-122Physics II: Heat, Wave Motion & Optics
73-100Principles of Economics
76-101Reading Texts
76-100Strategies for Writing
79-104Introduction to World History
85-100Cognitive Processes
85-211Cognitive Psychology
88-101Social Influence
06-304Econ & Optimization
If you are interested In tutoring, please contact Ms. LaValla Wilson at 268-2 
A copy of your transcript, or a letter of recommendation from your departmen 
instructor, is needed to assess your competency in the given subject.

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1987The TartanPage 21
Intramural Sports Standings (as of 2/5)
Floor HockevMinorsMajorsAdamsWon-Lost-TieWomen's.BasketballPuck Won-Lost-TieDining Dyn.1-0-1
DU2-0Kappa Sig1-0-01-1-0
1-0-1
KnicksWon-LostBoys of W. Charles.Chfs.1-01-0
God's Dogs Physics6C + D WNGK Army
3-12-10-0Mex. E.Quake Phi Kap0-1
0-1
PilamA.P.'sATO
Patrick
0-0-10-1-00-0-1
StickGSIA1 -0
HawksKKG0-1
SAE1-0AFROTC2-0-0Air Force CIA0-2
A ALst.Yrs.Chmps.0-1Transformers1-0-10-0
Puck Heads0-1Pandemon.Cl.1-0-0
50 Ft. Women0-0Guins0-1-1
Kappa Sig0-0AE-Pi0-1-0
KDR0-0Polar Bears Team Dahu0-1-0
0-1-0
Lady Tartans 
fall to
NYU, John 
Carroll
Continued from Page 24
their free throws to the hosts 77 percent.
Last Wednesday, the Lady Hoopsters 
traveled to John Carroll University, only to 
come home defeated. The Tartans drew their 
sixth PAC loss with this disappointing 69- 
63 loss. The squads were evenly matched, as 
each team had a 37-point half. John Carroll 
came out shooting in the first stanza, while 
Carnegie Mellon did the bulk of its scoring 
during the second half.
Lightner led her team in tallies with 24; 
while Reber also broke into the double 
figures netting 15 points. Reber and Virgin 
shared the rebounding honors with six 
apiece.
John Carrolls TC Dickerson led all scorers 
with 26 points. Teammate Brenda 
McNichol netted 21 tallies to contribute to 
her team's victory, while each girl pulled 
down seven rebounds.
The Tartans will host PAC rivals Thiel 
College tomorrow afternoon in Skibo 
Gymnasium, at 6:00 p.m., while Saturday 
will find the hoopsters traveling to Grove 
City College for a 6:00 p.m. tip-off.
Tartan Sports
For complete Tartan coverage, 
Turn to the Sports section every 
Week. And if you like to watch 
the Tartans more than reading 
about them, become a Tartan 
Newspaper Sportswriter. Call 
Don @ x2111 or x5433 for 
more information
Because You Want To Know
Students 
of the game
SELECTED BY CoSIDA
 Acodemc Al-Amenco is a regsiered service mari wXh bo U.S. ft*en and Trademark Office
Bryan Roessler
Carnegie-Mellon University  
2nd Team Football  
Chemical Engineering  
3.90 GPA  
Junior 
Hometown: Baldwin, PA 
Congratulations to the GTE Academic All-Americans.
They are the leaders of the team. But what makes them even more special is their outstanding 
academic records. They are the GTE Academic All-Americans, selected by the College Sports 
Information Directors of America (CoSIDA) for being high achievers-in the game as well as the 
classroom. GTE is proud to be the official sponsor of this 35-year-okj program and congratulates 
these student-athletes on their Academic All-American achievements.
Ttn NewsEdie Noo NdE--wtCwd

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanFebruary 10, 1987
Hoops, Hockey Under Way-The IM Report
Sports in Season
Chess
Commissioner - Stuart Fox 
RIBLI defeated PHYSICS for the 1987 
Championships. Great job, Stuart!
Bowling
Commissioner - Vince Carozza x5954 
Campus Champions Phi Kappa Theta 
High AverageRob Schlackman Phi Kap 
163.4
High GameTom Koehler DU 223 
High SeriesRandy Brown Phi Kap 563 
Please get all fees paid to Strand Lanes 
Intermediate Champs CMDS 
Great job, Vince!
Darts
Commissioner - Paul Pecora 
Please complete Playoff matches
Backgammon
Commissioner - Shu Lee x3680 
Please get finals played.
Basketball
Commissioners 
Majors - Dee Nyzio x4608 
Intermediate - Vince Carozza x5954 
Minors - Mike Grzywinski x4651 
Women's - Dee Nyzio x4608 
Standings are posted on IM Bulletin Board 
Please note change in IM Basketball 
Schedule
It is still not too late to join the Officials 
Club. Please contact Mike Mastroianni at 
x2214 after 4 PM to join.
Please play all games as scheduled.
Floor Hockey
Commissioners 
Majors - Rob Schlackman x5518 
Minors - Mike Grzywinski x4651 - 
Please play all games as scheduled
Sports Coming Up 
Pinochle
Commissioner - Vince Carozza x5954 
Final entry date was Feb. 5 
Games will start next week.
Handball
Commissioner - E.J. Birdy x2214
LAST CALL FOR HANDBALL 
FEBRUARY 12 @ 4:30 PM
Water Basketball
Commissioner - Hal Levine x4077 
Lifeguard for all games and practices will 
be Greg Garrison x5470 
Check IM Bulletin Board for pool practice 
time.
League play will start Feb. 16
Wrestling
Commissioner - Joe Kuefler 661-9375 
Practice times Monday through Friday 3:30- 
4:45 PM
Tournament will be held Saturday, March 
14 @ 9 AM
Mr. Adams will officiate this year's 
matches 
Start working out TODAY!
Table Tennis (Singles and Doubles)
Commissioner - Stuart Fox x4259 
Final entry date Feb. 12 @ 4:30 PM 
All players and teams MUST pay forfeit 
fee BEFORE you can play. No entry will 
be taken without the forfeit fee.
Tournament play will start next week. 
Check IM Bulletin Board for match 
schedules.
Weightlifting
Commissioners - Guy Bennardo x2214 
Keith Gorse x2222 
Entry due Thursday Feb. 26. EVERYONE 
WELCOME!
We Make High-Tech Happen!
Department of Metallurgical 
Engineering and Material Science
CIT Freshman Open House
Wean Hall 5403 Wednesday, Feb. 11th4:30 p.m.
Followed by informal dicussion and refreshments.
Three on Three Basketball
The AFROTC and the IM Department will 
conduct a Tournament for all non varsity 
basketball players.
Final Entry date Monday, March 2. 
Tournament held March 7 and 8.
Commissioners Dave Nardozzi AFROTC 
x5438
Mike Mastroianni x2214 
Entry fee $3 per team. Get your team 
together and sign up now! Entry forms for 
Majors and Minors and rules can be picked 
up in the IM office.
AH--------SghQQl_____Intramural Point
Standings
Phi Kap currently leads in the competition 
for All Sports Trophy, with DU and Pika 
close behind. Current standings reflect only 
last Fall's scores, and will be updated as 
sports are completed during the spring.
Phi Kap 439 
DU 430
Pika 404.
Theta Xi 251 
Kappa Sig 190
Pilam, SAE, and ATO also have over 165 
points.
ROSTERS DUE FEB.19 @ 4:30
PM
Team Call Pool - Commissioner Vic 
Banko x5403 
Individual Call Pool - Commissioner Vic 
Banko x5403 
Co-Rec Badminton - Commissioner Mr. 
Birdy x2214
Foul Shooting - Commissioner Mike 
Mastroianni x2214
Co-Rec Table Tennis - Commissioner 
Stuart Fox x4259 
Please Sign Up in IM Office!
Notes
Our Campus Champions Pi Kappa Alpha 
will represent Carnegie Mellon in a six 
school Flag Football Tournament at 
LaRoche College this Spring.
We still need good officials in all sports.
The motion to increase the forfeit fee to $5 
next year has been tabled.
Officials Club
The Officials Club is still accepting new 
members into its organization. The Club is 
now taking names of members who would 
like to officiate the IM/AFROTC 3 on 3 
Basketball Tournament on March 7 and 8 
Also, those interested in officiating Floor 
Hockey games on Monday and Wednesday 
evenings in Thistle Hall should contact the 
IM office. GAME FEES HAVE BEEN 
INCREASED in all activities. For more 
details call Mike Mastroianni at x2214 after
4 PM.
AMERICAN CANCER
Look who just rode into town.
Now you can catch Greyhound at the following stops on Friday and Sunday to almost 
anywhere in America. Because Greyhound goes more places, more often than anyone else.
EASTBOUND SERVICE
Forbes and Stevenson (Duquesne University)
Forbes and Halket (Carlow College)
Forbes and Schenley (University of Pittsburgh)
Forbes and Morewood (Camegie-Mellon University)
WESTBOUND SERVIC
Forbes and Morewood (Carnegie-Mellon University)
Fifth and Bigelow (University of Pittsburgh)
Fifth and Chesterfield (Carlow College)
Blvd. of the Allies and Marion (Duquesne University)
So next time you go, go Greyhound. From any of our four locations.
Call today for complete fare and schedule information.Tickets mua be purchased in dvance.
GREYHOUND IS NOW OPEN FOR BUSINESS AT THESE FOUR LOCATIONS.
University Travel (University of Pittsburgh)
3955 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
621-3492 *
HOURS: 8:30 AM - 5:00 PM Monday-Friday
Duquesne University Campus 
Duquesne Union Hall 
434-6633
HOURS: 8:00 AM - 4:00 PM Monday-Friday
Camegie-Mellon University Campus 
Skibo Hall
World Wise Travel Room 4QA 
531-5555
HOURS: 1:00 PM  5:00 PM Monday-Friday
Carlow College Campus
Security Office 
578-6344
HOURS: 8:00 PM - 3:00 PM Monday-friday
'M*
GO GREYHOUNDAnd leave the driving to us.
IW4 l iriMmuml I w>. I'

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1987The TartanPage 23
Sports This Week ...
Men's Basketball
Feb. 11 Thiel College (H) 8 PM Feb. 14 Grove City (A) 8 PM Feb. 17 Bethany (H) 8 PM
Womens BasketballFeb. 11 Thiel College (H) 6 PM Feb. 14 Grove City (A) 6 PM Feb. 17 Bethany (H) 6 PM
Swimming
Feb. 11 Duquesne (H)* 6 PM Feb. 14 Washington and Jefferson (A)* 1 PM
(* Men's and Women's meets)
Fencing 
Feb. 14 Interstate Meet (H) 9 AM (Allegheny, IUP,Case Western Reserve, California U. of PA., Oberlin, Cleveland State) 
Feb. 17 Penn State - Fayette (H)
HockeyFeb. 10 Slippery Rock (H) 5:30 PM
Tartan Sportswriters
We will have a brief but important 
meeting this Saturday, Feb.i4, at 
3:15 PM. to discuss assignments 
and upcoming seasons. Please call 
if you will be unable to attend.
riHelp build the arcAssociation for Retarded Citizens 
Build a better life
As one of the more than 6 million 
Americans with mental retardation, 
Tony wants the same things you do, a 
happy, productive life. Thats why the 
Association for Retarded Citizens asks 
for your support. Help build better 
lives.
198 7
Oar* ne gie Mellon Summer Programs
ACADEMIC PREPARATION
FOR EDUCATIONAL ADVANCEMENT
PRE-COLLEGE PROGRAM IN THE FINE ARTS
Summer 
Counselor 
Positions
We are currently seeking highly qualified and motivated students for 
full-time counselor positions for tine summer Pre College/APEA program.
s Available 
at the Housing Office :
FO Due r
Optional Interest Sessions at 
SKIBO 13, 9 : OOjpm :
9 th 
20th
lOth12th
For further information jplease stop 
fc>y one of the Interest Sessions or 
contact the Housing Office at x21 39
IP (sflaill
II na ti  Va   d
@
The Housing Office is now accepting applications from groups of students who 
would like to be considered for residency in one of the 4 Special Interest Houses.
Each Special Interest House is a 4-bedroom, 8-person apartment in the Margaret 
Morrison residence complex. In order to be eligible for consideration as a Special 
Interest House, a student group must have at least eight members, and one or two 
alternates if at all possible.
The specific goal of the Housing Office in providing the Special Interest Houses 
is to encourage situations where the living environment compliments the learn
ing opportunities of the residents involved and where specific educational goals 
outlined by the member-residents are understood and enhanced.
If more than 4 groups of students submit applications for these Special Interest 
Houses, a decision will be based on a comparison of the educational goals presented 
and the likelihood of serious educational benefit being derived from residency in 
this type of living situation.
Application forms are available in the Housing Office and must be filled out and returned by:
February 16, 1987
Deadline

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Team loses Coleman. P layoff Chances Bleak
Hoopsters Suffer Against John Carroll
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffer iter
A week and a half ago, the Tartans were 
flying high. After a mid-season slump, they 
had won three straight President's Athletic 
Conference games and finally looked to be 
making their move at one game out of first 
place and one game under .500. Then came 
Rod Swartz of Hiram, his PAC record 
breaking points last Saturday paced the 
Terriers to a 92-83 win over the Tartans. 
Four days later the Tartans travelled to 
Cleveland to take on the first place John 
Carroll Blue Streaks. John Carroll (13-7,7- 
1) only scored 50 points, but that was 10 
more than the Tartans could manage, as 
Carnegie Mellon dropped to 8-11, 4-4 in the 
PAC and their championship hopes crashed 
(Mi the flow of the Carroll Gym.
Last season, the Tartans were also only 
two games out when they travelled to first 
place John Carroll and got ambushed by the 
Blue Streaks 94-62, with John Carroll led by 
junior forward Jim Berger's 23 points. But, 
the team that John Carroll fielded Wednesday 
was much different. The Blue Streaks have 
been racked with injuries losing four players 
who had been averaging ten or more points 
per game this season, including Berger and 
last year's PAC Freshman of the Year. To 
combat the loss, the Blue Streaks have been 
forced to move their game outside and score 
from the outside, which they did last month 
at Skibo Gym in beating the Tartans 59-48.
John Carroll came out as expected, playing 
ball control while the Tartans league leading 
offense was content to sit back in a zone 
defense. That turned out to be a mistake as 
the Blue Streaks converted on its first three 
times down the court to take a 6-0 lead. 
Soon after, the stalled Tartan offense suffered 
another blow when senior forward Pete 
Cwalina picked up his third foul in under six 
minutes of play. Poor shooting (5-17), a 
lack of offensive rebounds (3), and turnovers 
(7) hurt the Tartans as John Carroll built a 
21-6 lead with only 4:31 remaining in the 
half.
An even more severe blow came a few 
minutes later in a collision between Tartan 
co-captains David Bart and Hart Coleman 
with John Carroll's Jeff Lamb. In the 
collision Coleman broke a bone in his foot 
sidelining him for the game and the rest of 
the season. The injury though seemed to 
spark a comeback as Bart scored seven 
unanswered points followed by two David 
Sikora free throws to make the score 21-15 
at the half.
At the start of the second half, Tartan 
Coach Larry Anderson attempted to shake up 
his team by keeping three of his starters on 
the bench at the start of the half. The tactic 
seemed to work as the Tartans closed the gap 
to 33-31 with 11:50 remaining. At this 
point, the Blue Streaks took over, holding 
the Tartans scoreless over the next six 
minutes to build a 40-31 lead. Carnegie 
Mellon could do no better than within six 
points the rest of the way falling 50-40.
John Carroll's Andy Juhola led all scorers 
with 16 points, followed by Bart with 13 
and Blue Streak Joe Curry who added 12. 
Bart pulled a game high 8 rebounds while 
junior forward David Smith grabbed 6 more.
With the win, John Carroll pulled to a 
commanding three game lead in the PAC 
with only four games remaining in the PAC 
season for both teams. The Tartans have two 
games this week, at home tomorrow night 
against Thiel had on Saturday at Grove City. 
Both games will be aired on WRCT starting 
at 7:50 p.m. Following these games, the 
Tartans have only two games left in regular 
play, against Bethany and W and J.
Inside...
The IM Report
IM Hockey, Womens Hoops Standings
SportsThisWeek
Photo by Dan Do whan
As the season winds down for the Lady Tartans, it seems to be one theyd like to forget
Lose to NYU in First Pre-UAA MatchupLady Cagers Continue Losing Streak
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Contributing Editor
Hosting its first University Athletic 
Association contest, the Women's Basketball 
squad played the perfect hosts, sending the 
Violets of New York University back to the 
City with a notch in the win column. The 
Tartans put up a good fight, falling only 12 
points short of victory, 60-48.
The Tartans were slow in the first half, 
scoring only 20 points in the stanza. Ten of 
the tallies came in the final five minutes, as 
the home squad began to come alive. The 
game opened on a slow note, as the score 
read Carnegie Mellon 2, New York 0, after 
almost five minutes of play. It took the 
Violets this five minutes to get used to 
their new surroundings and take advantage.
Rebounds proved the name of the game, 
even after the first half, as New York tore 
down 28 loose balls to Carnegie Mellon's 
11. This trend stood for the remainder of the 
contest, as the Violets outrebounded their 
hosts 45-22.
New York initiated the shooting in the 
second stanza, dropping in two baskets 
before the Tartans could get on the board. 
Once the Tartans were up there, though, they 
out-tallied the Violets 28-25 in this period.
"We played much better in the second 
half," stated head coach Gerri Seidl. The 
women looked like they just might rally to 
win several times throughout the half, with 
layups from Aimee Reber, Roseanna 
Neupauer, and Val Sooky. The Tartans also 
had several steals and defensive rebounds
Scoreboard
Men's Basketball 
John Carroll 50 
Carnegie Mellon 40
Women's Basketball 
John Carroll 69 
Carnegie Mellon 63
New York U. 60 
Carnegie Mellon 48
Men's Swimming 
Grove City 106 
Carnegie Mellon 77
Carnegie Mellon 102 
Slippery Rock 80
Women's Swimming 
Slippery Rock 95 
Carnegie Mellon 77
Hockey
Carnegie Mellon 
Allegheny
(Carnegie Mellon wins 
by default)
turned tallies in the half.
At about the 15:00 minute mark, 
sophomore Roseanna Neupauer netted a 
basket that would begin a 10-point run for 
the Tartans. With the score at 45-22, 
Neupauer took a pass from classmate Reber 
to up the score to 45-24. The ball changed 
hands several times, until senior captain Val 
Sooky turned a baseline pass into a layup to 
add another two.
Back-to-back tallies from freshman Donna 
Spicuzza and center Beth Virgin upped the | 
score to 45-30. At this point, Sooky passe I 
an in-bounds ball to Neupauer who fired f i 
cross-court pass to Spicuzza. Spicuzza saw 
Patti Sparrow open under the net and took 
advantage, upping the score to 45-32.
Again the ball changed possession several 
times before the Tartans could net the last 
basket in the run. At the 11:00 minute 
mark, a Spicuzza steal ended up in the net. 
as the freshman was fouled to allow for an in
bounds play. Virgin converted the in-bounds 
pass into an outside shot, contributing 
another two to her squad's cause.
The match continued in an even fashion 
with each team scoring about 15 points injf 
the remaining time.
NYU's Patti McCrudden led all scorer? 
with 20 points and 14 rebounds, whilt 
teammate Jennifer Miani tossed in ninebaskets.
For the Tartans, Reber netted a team-high 
14 tallies and Virgin dropped in nine 
Virgin led her squad in rebounds with eight 
while Sooky netted an impressive six points 
off the bench.
Seidl praised the second half work of 
Sooky and Virgin, while she noted that 
Neupauer had a good game and Spicuzza 
looked good defensively.
Overall, the Tartans and the Violets werf 
even from the floor, hitting 41 percen 
apiece while the visitors hit 83 percent ol 
Continued on Page 21

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment 
Comics 
Classifieds 
Events
Compelling performances in the extra-long Marathon f33
By LESLIE GRIFFIN
Special to the Tartan 
A word of advice: Don't go see Carnegie 
Mellon Drama's production of Marathon 33 
when you're sleepy. Since it's a story about 
a dance marathon during the Great 
Depression, the play drips with fatigue. It's 
also long-two and a half hours of watching 
deperate, exhausted couples shuffle around 
the stage as the marathon drags on and on. 
But don't be scared off by thisthe show is 
definitely worthy of praise for the the 
authentic 1930's atmosphere and several 
compelling performances from members of 
the extensive cast.
From the point of entering the theatre, the 
audience is sucked into the depression era of 
dingy surroundings and tarnished hopes. The 
stage is set with a roped off square for the 
couples to dance in, bleachers on either side 
for the spectators, and a platform higher up 
for the band and the master of ceremonies. 
Even while the house lights are up and the 
real audience is being seated, preparations are 
being made for the make-believe marathon 
on stage. The band tunes and tootles while 
the "staff' of the dance hall bustles around 
checking microphones and setting up for 
registration. The programs list in detail the 
rules of the marathon, so by the time the 
actual play begins a 30's atmosphere 
pervades the entire theatre. Even during inter
mission, facsimiles of authentic marathon 
dance newsletters bearing the latest updates 
on the condition of the couples are 
circulated.
The central theme is the brutality of the 
marathon, something along the lines of the 
Jane Fonda classic They Shoot Horses, 
Don't They? The main conflict centers on 
June (Dody Fogel), a young girl who grew 
up on the vaudville stage but who longs to 
be "legit." She unwillingly enters the 
marathon, sustained only by the promise of
regular meals and "silver showers" of coins 
from the spectators. Through the cruelty and 
ruthlessness of the other contestants and the 
marathon itself, June comes to realize her 
strength to endure. Fogel's performance is 
admirable-she progresses from an unsure 
girl to a confident woman believably, even 
at times when exhaustion threatens the 
sanity of the character.
Junes partner is Patsy (Delbert Highlands), 
a veteran marathoner with a jaded view of the 
world. He boasts of a college degree and a 
big future, cruelly taunting June for being 
weak and naive. Even so, they slowly 
develop a grudging liking for each other. 
Patsy's unpredictability keeps June confused 
for much of the play-for that matter, he 
keeps the audience confused too. Highland's 
performance was energetic and engaging, but 
the audience is left wondering what makes 
the character tick. Questions about what 
Patsy's past really involved never get fully 
answered.
Each of the couples develop a distinctive 
personality throughout the course of the 
play, A few are husband and wife teams, 
others hardened professionals out for blood 
and prize money. Some of the most painful 
but memorable scenes take place in the 
ladies dressing room, wh^re the desperate 
competition of the female contestants 
surfaces in savage catfights and sabotage. 
In fact, all the women give strong, 
convincing performances.
Under the direction of visiting professor 
Lee Sankowich (director of The Women at 
CMU last year), the stage often takes on the 
appearance of a three ring circus. Action 
goes on in every part of the stage: dancing 
couples in the center, spectators in the side 
bleachers, master of ceremonies and band 
(nicely performed by George Gee & his 
Swing-Rhythm Kings) on a higher platform. 
On one hand, it's hard to get bored when
Dody Fogel (June) supports her partner, Delbert Highlands (Patsy)
there are so many things going on. On the 
other, it's hard to concentrate on the main 
action between June and Patsy-their crucial 
dialouge sometimes drowns in the sea of 
music and movement Marathon '33 warrants 
more than one viewing if you want to catch 
everything.
Overall, the spectacle is thought-provoking. Through this solid production, the
audience gains painful insights into the rockbottom morale and desperation of ordinary 
people during the Great Depression-its 
definitely worth a watch. The show plays 
Feb. 6-7 and 10-14, also at 2 p.m., Feb. 7 
and 14. All performances are in the Kresge 
Theatre in the College of Fine Arts.
For more information call the box office at 
268-2407.
World Party is bringing the sixties back 80fs style
By DAN BIDWA
Tartan Record Critic 
Ratt
Dancing Undercover 
Atlantic
A child of the homogenized hard rock/pop 
movement infecting the nation's airwaves 
lately, Ratt has become known for their safe 
heavy metal, and this album is no exception. 
Seemingly made under duress, Dancing 
Undercover consists mostly of bland rock 
songs with a few exceptional songs for 
singles to sell the album. Warren 
DeMartini, the lead guitarist, provides 
consistently interesting guitar licks and 
Stephen Pearcy snarls winningly throughout 
the entire album, but the majority of songs 
are still boring. The main exception is 
"Body Talk", which has an intro that catches 
the listener's attention right before the rest of 
the song swamps him. Bobby Blotzer 
outdoes himself, laying down a fast 
Metallica-ish beat that hammers the song 
into movement. Good stuff, this. 
Unfortunately, this kind of song is the 
exception rather than the rule, and the 
majority of the album is average milksop 
metal. Wish these guys would get their act 
together for an entire album, instead of 
making albums of a few singles and filler. 
Tartan Record Grade: 1.50
Bad Company 
Fame and Fortune 
Atlantic
Poor Bad Company. After six fairly 
successful albums, Paul Rodgers, their old 
lead singer, joins The Firm, gaining 
countless success therein, and Bad Company 
becomes Foreigner. Bad Foreigner, at that. 
Bad Company's songs used to be derived 
from their "six-gun sound"; unfortunately,
their latest album squashes what little guitar 
is on the album, reducing the band to cap 
guns at best. Very vanilla. This band has 
already gotten its laurels; now it's time to 
rest on them.
Tartan Record Grade: .75
Camper Van Beethoven 
Camper Van Beethoven 
Pitch-A-Tent
This is a weird album. Camper Van varies 
from neo-hillbilly in songs like "Good Guys 
and Bad Guys" to all-out, psychedelic crunch 
in "Interstellar Overdrive", their cover of the 
old Pink Floyd song. In fact, Camper Van
thrives on variety, spiced with a generous 
dose of strangeness. The second track on the 
album, "Joe Stalin's Cadillac", is a hoot, 
telling of driving Stalin's Cadillac, as well 
as LBJ's, Moses', and General Pinochet's 
respective Cadillacs ("can't go left in General 
Pinochet's Cadillac"). Even so, the song 
sounds fairly normal. However, the next 
song, "Five Sticks" is ingeniously weird: 
the music goes forward, but the lyrics go 
backwards. Amazingly enough, the song 
sounds good. Very good. And the second 
side only gets stranger. (And there's a tiny 
violin all over the place! Annoying as hell.) 
The crowning touch to the side is the band's 
cover of "Interstellar Overdrive", which is 
even better than the original. Joyous 
feedback and noise rule, and the results are 
no less than awe-inspiring. Play this loud 
and annoy your neighbors. Oddly enough, 
the last song on the album, "Shut Us 
Down", is perfectly normal. Curiouser and 
curiouser. Whatever the case, give this 
album a listen. It's worth the time spent. 
Tartan Record Grade: 3.75
World Party 
Private Revolution 
Chrysalis
The Sixties are not dead. With Private 
Revolution, World Party proves that hippie
sentiments can be updated to the Eighties. 
Karl Wallinger, formerly of the Waterboys, 
has created a wonderful album, taking 
Sixties sentiments and combining them with 
Eighties sound and production. The songs 
are uniformly good, combining smooth 
music with bouncy rhythyms. The lyrics 
are all superbly written, dealing with 
subjects such as coexistence ("World Party") 
and separation from reality ("Hawaiian Island 
World"). Credits on the album sleeve 
include Greenpeace, the animals (the little 
furry ones, not the band), and God. 
Nevertheless, it's a great album. Give this 
man your money.
Tartan Record Rating: 4.0

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanFebruary 10, 1987
The new spring season offers little more than the usual shows
By ANGELA TAYLOR
Tartan Television Critic
Every season has its winners and losers. 
We know what happens to the winners; they 
get Emmys, and the stars get to be on the 
cover of every major magazine in America. 
But the losers? Well, they get cancelled and 
their time slots are filled with what the 
networks refer to as mid-season or spring 
season shows. In most cases these are 
shows that got passed up during the first 
round picks in the fall, with good reason. 
But they aren't all bad; some were just 
delayed because producers or staffs couldn't 
get their stuff together in time for the fall. 
Regardless, no network is perfect; they all 
have Nielsen's losers, so they all have mid
season shows.
ABC
The latest contender for the Thursday night 
slot is Shell Game, starring Margot Kidder 
and James Read as Jennie and John, a pair of 
production assistants/ investigative reporters 
for a TV news show. The catch is they used 
to be married and they used to be con-artists. 
Being that they have this past, they know all 
sorts of tricks that only con-men (and 
women) know; they can break into any 
house or office, regardless of the degree of 
security employed; they search through 
garbage to get information; they have seedy 
contacts who provide them with seedy 
information.
Jennie and John are always reminiscing 
about the old days: Remember when we
stole __________ from _______ when we
were in___________? All the time! These
two must have travelled the world over at 
least ten times, but all of their contacts are 
conveniently located in Southern California 
where they work. And how do they know 
where to find these people? If I were the
kind of person that consorted with con-artists 
I wouldn't have an ad in the Yellow Pages. 
It must be one of their little con-artist tricks. 
Unfortunately, it sometimes backfires and 
poor John is often geting beaten up by 
someone he or his wife once cheated or stole 
from.
Another weak link in the show is the sorry 
attempt at sexual tension (which is all the 
rage on TV these days). Kidder and Read
just don't have any on-screen chemistry. 
Besides which, John has a girlfriend, Natalie 
the anchorwoman. Therefore, any flirtation 
on the part of Jennie makes her look like the 
jealous ex-wife, which is unbecoming to any 
character. If this is the best ABC has to 
offer, NBC has a long reign ahead of it.
TV has done it again - taken a so-so 
movie and made it into a bad TV show. 
"Gung-Ho" wasn't very good on the big 
screen and it's downright pitiful as a sit-com. 
They've moved it out of the factory-it's
more of a personal life culture clash now. 
But the lines are so bad that within the first 
five minutes you know you've tuned into a 
lemon (the pathetic cast has delivered at least 
twenty bad lines). You know it's bad news 
when you feel embarassed for the characters' 
stupidity.
Adding to its sorriness is its horrible 
depiction of the Japanese. The Japanese on 
the show have those asinine stereotypical
accents that Hollywood has been throwing 
around ever since they introduced sound. 
They also eat sushi and drink sake and eat on 
the floor. Don't all Japanese? If I were 
Japanese, I would be insulted. In fact, I'm 
not Japanese, and I'm still insulted.
Following Gung-Ho is Dads, a sort of Y 
chromosome version of Kate & Allie. The 
gay divorcees are Barry Bostwick and Carl 
Weintraub, and they share their house with 
three kids. The show has some sincerely 
funny lines, delivered brilliantly by
Bostwick and Weintraub (both of whom 
have an excellent sense of comic timing) 
but the plots tend to drag at times, making 
the show rather boring, despite its funny 
lines. This is one that has potential.
The sense of family that exists on Kate & 
Allie is missing here, but that may well 
come with time, as, I hope, will more 
engaging story lines. If Dads is allowed to 
develop to its full potential, the talents of 
Bostwick and Weintraub can turn it into a 
first-rate family comedy.
New to Saturday nights is Ohara, a crimedrama with a twist. The point of the show is 
that the oriental mind is far superior to 
anything the West could produce. Ohara (Pat 
Morita) is a police lieutenant who does not 
believe in violence, but knows that 
sometimes he has to fight (which is a relief; 
I don't think anyone would tune in to watch 
a little guy get beaten up every week). He 
practices meditation, so his mind is honed to 
peak sharpness, enabling him to outthink 
the criminal, which, in turn, allows him to 
catch the criminal.
All sarcasm aside, Ohara is a nice change 
of pace from the "beat the hell out of the bad 
guy and use as many bullets as possible in 
an hour cop shows that are currently 
glutting TV. Besides, Pat Morita is always 
fun to watch. The man just emotes; you 
have to like him no matter what he's doing. 
Ohara can be tolerable as long as they don't 
take this Japanese stereotype too far (as far 
as it has gone in Gung-Ho, for instance).
CBS
Sunday nights, filling the slot left by The 
Equalizer, is Hard Copy, a drama about 
(you guessed it) reporters. It is trying to be a 
Bochco-esque production, creating (or 
continued on page D3
op-=/ 7)o8
THE OAKLAND REVIEW 
SKIBO 53 
SUBMISSION DEADLINE: FRIDAY 13 FEBRUARY
partially funded by your student activities fee
campus
February 11
Qualified college students are invited to meet 
with us and explore the career opportuni 
ties the innovative technology, the 
industry leadership that is Motorola's 
Semiconductor Products Sector. Engineering 
and other professional openings exist for:
Electrical Engineers 
Mechanical Engineers 
Physicists
Computer Scientists 
Chemical Engineers 
Materials Scientists 
Finance and Materiels Specialists
For more information, stop by your College 
Placement Office or write to Manager, College 
Recruiting at the appropriate address below.
Arizona Opportunities
Motorola's Semiconductor Products Sector 
725 South Madison 
Tempe. AZ 85281 
(602) 994 6812
Texas Opportunities
Motorola's Semiconductor Products Sector 
1112 W Ben White Blvd.. Suite 200 
Austin. TX 78704 
(800) 531 5183
An Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1987The TartanPage D3
Best of the lot: Ohara, The Cavanaughs and Outlaws
continued from page D2
trying to, anyway) that know-the-charactersinside-out feeling that is so discemable on 
Hill Street Blues and LA Law. The 
characters work at the Los Angeles crime 
desk, so you get a potpourri of "types." 
Dean Devlin is the young, idealistic reporter 
who only wants to let the people know the 
truth. Michael Murphy is the seasoned, 
kind, knowlegeable assistant editor who 
doesn't let the news affect him. And, of 
course there's a woman (a show gets boring 
without romantic plots): The level-headed, 
independent reporter for the wire service 
(Wendy CrewSon).
However hard it is trying, Hard Copy can't 
shake that CBS melodramatic flavor that is 
apparent in other shows, such as Cagney and 
Lacey. It isn't hard to tell when someone is 
going to get shot or break down in tears. But 
that's the CBS way, and the show fits the 
bill, so it will probably be around a while.
Remember the ever so hard-to-swallow 
Together We Stand? Maybe not; it wasn't 
around very long. But these little go-getters 
aren't ready to throw in the towel: they've 
recreated the show as Nothing is Easy. The 
show has exactly the same cast-sans Elliot 
Gould (I appreciate an actor who isn't dumb
enough to sign up for the same turkey twice)-- 
and almost the same premise. Dee Wallace 
Stone is now a single woman with four 
adopted children. Hard to believe anything 
as dumb as Together We Stand could have 
gotten worse, but it has. If it was hard to 
believe before, this final stroke of genius 
makes it a candidate for the ridiculous hall of 
fame.
Filling the slot that was held by the illfated Together We Stand is The Cav
anaughs, a new twist on the old family 
comedy theme. The Cavanaughs are a trad
itional, second-generation Irish family whose 
lives are disrupted when the daughter Kit 
(Christine Ebersole) returns after having run 
off years ago to make some bad beach 
movies. She agrees to stay around and help 
take care of her father, brother, niece and 
three nephews. The Cavanaughs is one of 
those truly funny situation comedies that 
have become the deviation from the norm. 
Coupled with a talented cast, this one is a 
winner.
Christine Ebersole has definitely come a 
long way since Saturday Night Live. Her 
comic talent was smothered then. In fact, I 
thought she was about as funny as a ruptured 
spleen. With the likes of Eddie Murphy and
Joe Piscopo around, I guess it's hard to 
shine. But she does, and brilliantly, as the 
modem woman in the traditional household.
One final note of congratulations to the 
creators for giving us a priest who's a person 
(well-played by John Short). He is funny, 
he has faults, and he even jokes about his 
own celibacy.
NBC
It was bound to happen  Cheers gets a 
spin-off. There was some talk last season 
about giving Norm and Cliff their own 
show, but let's be serious  those two live 
in the bar; what could be done with them? 
Instead, the torch is passed to Carla's exhusband, Nick, and his ditzy new wife, 
Loretta. Wednesday nights, The Tortellis 
takes us to Las Vegas (the place to be this 
year if you're a TV show) where Nick and 
Loretta move in with a woman I find hard to 
believe is Loretta's sister. It is beyond me 
how the level-headed, serious Charlotte and 
the windy Loretta could be raised in the same 
home. Even harder to believe is that BurrowsCharles-Burrows  the brains and 
imagination that gave us such classic oneroom comedies as Taxi and Cheers - could
produce this kind of drool.
Nick, with his dull-witted monotone and 
his unwarranted ego, is a funny character. 
Loretta, with her squeaky voice and her air
headed repertoire, is a funny character. But, 
this show is just not funny. In addition to 
contrived plots, they use canned laughter, 
and nothing is as funny as the electronic 
audience thinks this stuff is. You should 
hear them rolling in the aisles, and I'm 
wondering if someone is making rabbit ears 
behind the directors head. What The 
Tortellis does is ruin classic characters. 
They should have left well-enough alone.
New in the Saturday night line-up is 
Outlaws. There are these cowboys in the Old 
West, see, and they get caught up in some 
kind of time warp and end up in Dallas in 
1987. Being that the only skills they have 
are gun-slinging, horse-riding, and 
lassooing, their only way of making a living 
is, of course, to open the Double Eagle 
Ranch Detective Agency (I kid you not). 
These guys are naturals: they have that Old 
West code of honor, perseverence that makes 
everyone else look weak or cowardly, and 
they have hunches that always pay off and 
tend to make the police look stupid. They 
continued on page DIO
Professor 
discovers 
perfect 
love potion
After 23 years of 
research, Dr. Rufus 
T. Valentine, noted romanceologist, has 
discovered the perfect 
love potion.
Said Dr. Valentine, 
The FTD Sweet
heart Bouquet is a 
perfect combination of 
flowers and a heartshaped potpourri in a 
ceramic powder jar. 
Lab studies have 
shown it to have a 
powerful, romantic 
effect on both sender 
and recipient.
However, Dr. Valen
tine warns, the effect 
seems to peak around 
February 14. And you 
must make sure to go 
to an FTD Florist 
Otherwise, he added, 
you may find yourself 
spending Valentines 
Day alone in a most 
un romantic place-the
Mfegotercd trademark FTDA.
JWfffJjTfik I f It's the challenge a GrummanA/vllv# engineer faces every day We 
if IfOff CCtn. demand not only the talent to create wM wUi I* ideaS) bUt also the tenacity to improve
them. That's why we attract engineers who are hard to please - and hard to beat. If you're one of them, and you want to choose from various engineering positions, let us know Send your resume to Employment Manager, Mail Station C07-GHQ, Dept. AK. Grumman Corporation, 
Bethpage, Long Island, NY11714-3586. Only GRUMMAN
A r#<jist#red trademark of Grumman Corporation
Grumman Corporation is an Qual opportunity employ** U S citizenship myuued
GRUMMAN

---------------------------------------------------

Schenley Ice-Skating Rink"The Coolest Place In Town"
Public Skating Sessions 
Private Parties
College I.D. Night
Tuesdays from 7:00-9:00 P.M. 
Admission $1:00 with valid 
college I.D.
Citiparks & WAMO FM 106 Present:
Valentines On Ice
February 14th 7:00-9:30PM 
admission $1.50 
skate rental $.75
BENNETON Fashion Show 
1st Fashion show on ice 
Free hot chocolate courtesy of H J. Heinz _
For More Info. Call Schenley Rink at 422-6547 
or Citiparks at 255-8975
FREE WALK-IN TUTORING 
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY  7 -10 p.m.
CALCULUS 
(Pr0, 1.11, 111)
PHYSICS 
CHEMISTRY
ACADEMIC WRITING PROBLEMS 
FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING ECONOMICS 
ECONOMICS 
INTRO. TO COMPUTING
2DcT3b6b1 7 HceT3braT. dT0 21e0bT1 ObYbrcDubT1 HbT1b6 
OaYa3acT c: 21e0bT1 M::da63
APPLICATIONS FOR
FRESHMAN COUNSELORS
FOR 1987-88 ARE BEING TAKEN
PICK ONE UP AT THE 
SKIBQ INFO DESK OR 
AT STUDENT AFFAIRS (SECOND FLOOR WARNER)
DEADLINE - FRIDAY. FEB. 20

---------------------------------------------------

SPRING BREAK *87
NASSAUBAHAMAS
INCLUDES:
AIRFARE  SEVEN NIGHTS ACCOMMODATIONS 
AT THE BEACHFRONT EMERALD BEACH HOTEL 
TRANSFERS . HOTEL TAXES AND GRATUITIES 
PLUS ADDITIONAL FEATURES
WEEKEND DEPARTURE 
WEEK OF MARCH 22,1987
FROM: $577
Quad Occupancy
SPACE LIMITED! 
CALL TODA Y!
AVEL(412) 321-9702
Carnegie Mellon Drama
STUDIO THEATRE
presents
 IffMg
an MFA production directed by Anne Miyamoto
Monday, February 16 at 8:30 p.m.
Tuesday, February 17 at 8:30 p.m. 
Wednesday, February 18 at 5:00 p.m. and 8:30 p.m. 
in the Studio Theatre
ADMISSION IS FREE
EXPANDING TO 22 MAJOR CITIES ACROSS 
THE UNITED STATES
INTERESTED IN BEING A GOODWILL AMBASSADOR FOR
CARNEGIE MELLON?
THE ALUMNI OFFICE IS NOW ACCEPTING APPLICATIONS FOR 
STUDENT VISITORS. STUDENTS WILL BE PAID $200.00 PER WEEK 
TO VISIT ALUMNI IN THEIR HOMES OR OFFICES FOR 10 WEEKS OVER
THE SUMMER.
COMPLETE AN APPLICATION AT THE ALUMNI OFFICE,
5017 FORBES, SECOND FLOOR 
APPLICATION DEADLINE IS FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 27,1987
QUALIFICATIONS:
YOU MUST CURRENTLY BE A FRESHMAN, SOPHOMORE OR JUNIOR WHO IS FROM ONE OF THE FOLLOWING
VISITATION AREAS:
NEW YORK, NY 
LONG ISLAND, NY 
HARTFORD, CT 
BOSTON, MA 
DALLAS, TX 
AKRON, OH 
SCOTTSDALE, AZ 
DENVER, CO 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
SAN FRANCISCO, CA 
PALO ALTO, CA
WESTCHESTER COUNTY, NY 
PRINCETON, NJ 
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY 
HOUSTON, TX 
CLEVELAND, OH 
PHOENIX, AZ 
TEMPE, AZ 
PHILADELPHIA, PA 
BALTIMORE, MD 
SAN JOSE, CA 
LOS ANGELES, CA
THE VISITATION IS PART OF THE ALUMNI OUTREACH PROGRAM 
SPONSORED BY THE ALUMNI RELATIONS OFFICE
"FCD
3

---------------------------------------------------

iHF HORN SECTION FOR *Psmmm''/vreM5!Pl. WHAT'S UP*
SOU/HHSOHl. TO ,mum*.
mey IF&* bo *7&*JoWJfj 
T*Ji7&ooFTk sewn
HEARINGS ON "PORN ROCK.
'coopemnoN:
ITbTI
CtIIJ**77
CHAIRWOMAN,15 OUR SECOND
fTI7nnn v
YFS. ANP WF ALL KNOW HOW PAINFUL A PROCEDURE THAT CAN PF FORA MALE (MR 30.
sm/F AND PILLtmmtiSUMMONFDW 
r> WASHINGTON;
AND PUTTING FORTH 
A GOOD FIGHT, ONE MIGHT HOPE.
jgd
M. DALLAS, 1 PFUFVF THIS IS ONE OFYOUR'DEATHToNGUF' SONGS. IFT'S RFVTFW IF ^TOGETHER. '
'csme cme Jf*t WtF. H7kO*RLFMF STOMPLF YOUR - ALPINO, /X,LFMMF NIPPLE ON i'MLYOUR WPS, ll7*f NOT... UH... 4 T
OFFWITH HIS HEAP.
\
"UJVERHINO..urnRHINO.
Ji ~TWAfe( thefkJ
mi, MR.VUAS... WEVE HEARD YOUR SMUT MASQUERADING ASS0NG6...
..AND WE'VE HEARD HOW 1FFN PROSTITUTION, PRFGN/WCf,
im use, CFk*&R .FfTNTW&R 
SE!P!l A'l !Ume ysw!G'G 
Ae S"GGl!'w Ky!S 'AK!m'n
WE 1H0U6HT YOU MIGHT UKF 10 SHARE WITH THt COMMimF ANY PARTICULAR CAUSES YOU MimT SEE FOR THOSE LATTER PROBLEMS*.
1PUNNO. MAYBE THE PROLIFERATION OF OFF NARROW, SUFFOCATING WITH ZEALOTRY HIS HEAP.MASQUERADING \AS PARENTING WF CANTIN THIS COUNTRY. PO THAT,V " TIPPY /
/MRIGHT. NNRIbHT... m CtfC7O7 JiT* we fTI7 clAKyKdNGUE IS NOT PARTICULARLY amove *t bt&J*JH7R CHRISTIAN, ALL -AMERICAN TMM c=y IN OUR NATION'S YOUTH..
WHICH. UHWHICH, OF COURSE, IS WHY WF CHANGED OUR NAME LAST WEEK W. FR TV.
BOtNeeRS'? ) WHAT'S A SOUNPS L WINGER'? VAGUELY \ hWHOLiSOm.
IftUY ANP THE POWERS.
MU?// 
PIP YOU
pF&* seeTHE HORRORTHFV SHOWED 
ON TV*
STEVE JUST OH. I THOUGHT PUCKLFP 1HFY WERE SHOWING UNPER SENATI CROSS SECTIONS PRESSURe OF THE FREStPFNTS ANP CHANGEP PLAPPER AGAIN.\PEA1HTNGUET J-^\NAME 10 \BUY / \ANP THE )B01NGFRS Y ^ ^ Jf/
OH TVS y\ /Ti'/, .
YA KNOW, FOR MY MONEY, YOU NEVER CAN SEE 100 MUCH Of THAT SORT OF THING.
WHAT?. WHAT?OR MORE GRAPHC DIAGRAMS OF THE PRESIDENT'S PROSTATE.
T&OcV *10 
VlAKE 
UN^
SAY..SORRY. MAYPEIT'S *POtNGEROFFICIAL HAS SOME UGLY, NOW UNSAVORYi . CONNOTATION\ WF HAVEN'Ti THOUGHT OF'
'NOBODY 0f.
GIVE ME, ANY^OtUTROUPLF. AUt
^ nri TH6 p . A atiilt rOt
rr NT& TJk i
COUP THINK SOMEHOW, ^ OF IT JUSTA / DOESN'T 
W CHALLENGE 1HF 
SFNSmUTTES OF Tk/\\ THE IRAPmONAL B\V l\ ESTABLISHMENT.
AWAY,KNAGS' MIGHTI IT PE NO,
\ AVAGUF 1HATP
\ SEXUAL BE WILY
I EUPHEMISM f ANP THE
/ 1 i PIPDLFRS:
bF,61m
eP))A b)d7=s Provided by SDC 9E etjqt ejtTNwtc Inkspots by \{

---------------------------------------------------

Nollem Eigenrac
ruer iKTtteo(**TED nepx 
HOURS, BUT 1 TOCO Tue* OOTWlnJi,exeen foR mv uArte, soci At secueivt MiMBffT?, AWt> tw QP*.V
so, fweriKAusKi, you uio.
tfOT TALK ?
by Mike McHugh with Joe Ferrugia
Dribbleby Mike Jung
ltfifBlE. Yo*j gotta help r*e, Vcj jvst (.OOc war f^e, ON* rfl ft ,Vex) AtMc H*^BVe6ViS WAWC,e Cpu>, Ric*vr? But  cav't cutw^el \ , CAWT WW*0 Vift GWEEU AiL-rweTrtre ^ULTBlWi  CftU'rfWP^fVrML
A Look Within
wwr-mrr pcesiomy tomnextow? irpesTitorb my SbtiM, UPei s7hm yiltWT U*? WBKC RMpA** |V umE M*V VMJJ^iViD E^tOE w#5 wrHes>\rBuri w STiwLc*e#w k^rrVauuii ry>IaNefcOi E*vmc. crttoxjE;!
" $m>, Net, usTBTDme. You we*e(V>om>. vto'Re Nr *tvuv r HMnx). 
_ Yoo'<28 Pr UZA>-_____
\ -
JUlB.by Kneep Debends
Th* Porira of 5access
(Jrvct did ijOU <yd (Aat rustproo-Pi^^ schivi 
1 \Janted ? Do c^ou vsni n. to 
rus t ava^ or some -hi" k  . .
f\c\\! /*ie* Gv eA
VCS. V/lll <^0 ulAm 
T ha'T c> headcta

---------------------------------------------------

h_____
You've seen them at the Decade, now you'll see them at Scotland Yard Friday at 10 pm
=wt mt1Ffc N6,t TjFafc 6m T2OTEm 9tNNtjM

---------------------------------------------------

February 10,1987The TartanPage Df
Animation collection at Pittsburgh Filmmakers
PITTSBURGH  "Best American Ani
mation of the Eighties," a collection of 20 
award-winning animated films from the last 
six years, will be screened by Pittsburgh 
Filmmakers on Friday and Saturday, 
February 13 and 14. The film will be shown 
at 8:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. each evening in 
Filmmakers' Screening Room, 205 Oakland 
Avenue. General admission is $3.00. 
Admission for members and students of Pitts
burgh Filmmakers, senior citizens, and 
children under 12 is $2.00.
This group of shorts reflects the healthy 
state and diverse nature of American 
animation. The collection features Will Vin
ton's Academy Award nominee, "The Great 
Cognito;" Mike Patterson's "Commuter," a 
student Academy Award winner; "Quasi 
Cabaret Trailer," Sally Cruikshanks fund
raiser for her proposed feature; and George 
Griffin's "Flying Fur," an 80's cartoon with 
a 40's soundtrack.
PITTSBURGH, February 4, 1987  
Sewickley's Bird-In-The-Hand Gallery is 
presenting a special exhibit for those who 
appreciate paintings in their most pure form. 
The exhibition will highlight the works of
Western Pennsylvania's own Ray Dunlevy 
Friday, February 20, through Thursday, 
March 26.
Dunlevy's work focuses on innovative and 
creative uses of light and color to stimulate a 
three-dimensional allusion.
"Mr. Dunlevy shows a total understanding 
of the craft of painting through his pieces," 
said Katherine Amsler of the Gallery. "He is 
very effective at getting his message across 
in a most figurative and dynamic way."
Dunlevy is Chairman of the art department 
at California University of Pennsylvania. 
He's a practiced art critic and professor.
His works have appeared at shows that 
include the National Painting Show at 
Washington & Jefferson College, the 
Midyear Show in the Butler Institute of 
American Art, The Invitational 
"Pennsylvania 71," and the Oglebay Institute 
Gallery Invitational. Dunlevy has been 
featured in one-man shows at Pennsylvania 
State University, PPG Industries, and In
diana University of Pennsylvania.
He has won awards that include the 
Grumbacher Bronze Medal and the Juror's 
Award from the 1985 National Painting 
Show. Along with a number of other 
awards, he won the Jury Award in 1968 from
the Associated Artists of Pittsburgh.
Sewickley's Bird-In-The-Hand Gallery is 
the oldest independently-owned art gallery in 
the Pittsburgh area.
PITTSBURGH  Internationally re
nowned pianist Andras Schiff will give a 
Pittsburgh debut recital for the Y Music 
Society of the Jewish Community Center on 
Tuesday, February 17, 8 p.m. at the Morris 
Kaufmann Auditorium, 315 Bellefield Ave. 
in Oakland.
Andras Schiff was bom in 1953 in 
Budapest. His parents were lucky to escape 
with their lives during the Second World 
War when their train bound for Auschwitz 
was diverted to Vienna. In 1979 Schiff 
decided to live permanently in the West, 
establishing residences in New York and 
London.
Already acknowledged by the New York 
Times to be "one of the most arresting of 
young musicians to appear on the 
international scene in yt ars," Andras Schiff 
has a reputation for taking musical risks and 
playing with a personally daring style. 
Though he has always hated competitions  
"the equivalent of gladiators in Rome"  he 
feels that they never seriously discouraged
him. On the whole he is rather proud that he 
did not win first prize in any of the 
international ones.
Schiff will perform an English Suite by 
Bach, Six Pieces by Brahams, Op. 118 and 
the "Hammeiklavier" Sonata by Beethoven.
For ticket information to this concert, call 
the Y Music Society at 521-8099.
PITTSBURGH  Michael Comini's 
mixed media exhibit will open on Feb. 18 at 
the Blatent Image Gallery and will run 
through March 21, with the opening 
reception held on Feb. 21 from 7 to 9 p.m.
Comini, originally from Latrobe, Pa., is a 
self-taught photographer and has studied 
sculpture at Clarion University.
Comini often combines three-dimensional 
objects with still photography and projected 
light to achieve "sight creations" that utilize 
all room surfaces, including the floor. 
"Cerebral Caesarean" will be his first oneman exhibition.
As an adjunct to the exhibit, the Blatent 
Image/Silver Eye will hold a forum with 
Michael Comini on February 26 at 8 p.m. 
in the Gallery to which the public is invited.
The Blatent Image is located at 1015 East 
Carson Street, on the South Side.
LONDON ENGINEERING 
INTERNSHIP PROGRAM
 Two-month unpaid internships in most engineering fields.
 16 semester hour credits in Differential Equations or 
Multivariate Calculus, plus Art, Economics & Literature.
 Apartments in Central London
 Offered fall, spring and summer semesters.
 Recommended for freshmen and-sophomores.
BOSTON UNIVERSITY
L
Please send information on the London Engineering Internship Program: 
NAME__________________________________________
ADDRESS
CITYSTATEZIP
SCHOOLGPA
return to; LIP, 143 Bay State Rd , Boston MA 02215 (617)3^5-9888
nypG)7GSCHOOL OF DESIGN
Special Summer Programs
FRANCE 
WEST AFRICA 
ITALY 
GREAT BRITAIN 
JAPAN 
NEW YORK
International programs are offered for students, 
teachers and working professionals. Courses 
include: archaeology; architectural history; art 
history; clay and textile design; decorative arts; 
drawing; fashion; graphic design; painting and 
photography. Undergraduate and graduate credits 
are available to qualified participants. For more 
information, please mail the coupon below or 
call the Parsons Office of Special Programs:
(212) 741-8975.
Parsons School of Design, Office of Special Programs 
66 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10011
Please send me a brochure on farsons Special Summer 
Programs.
Name__________________________________________
.Address ___________________________________________
City_____________State_____________Zip___________

---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanFebruary 10, 1987
A show called DAN at Forbes Gallery
By CHRIS CORRIGAN
Special to the Tartan
Yes, once again it is a Tuesday and once 
again a new show is opening up at the 
Forbes Gallery. This week's show will be 
highlighting the works of seniors, Dan 
Russel and Dan Kaplan. Russel will be 
showing some sculptures and photography 
works and Kaplan will show various prints, 
paintings and drawings among other work in 
this joint show called DAN.
Among Russel's work is some interesting 
cardboard and wood sculptures. These,
combined with some fascinating city scape 
photographic pieces, definitely demonstrate 
the artist's self-proclaimed goal to, "figure 
out things about geometry that few others 
know." So go to the show and deal that if 
youve got the guts to.
Kaplans work includes a diverse collection 
of paintings, prints, two collages and a board 
game that he designed. His paintings and 
prints are made up of what he describes as 
"little squares of personal pictures." His 
collages are quite interesting. With these, 
Kaplan works at "constructing drawings that
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268-2992
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh................. ....................................... 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection.................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid.................................................................................... 281-4664
A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
FAST FREE DELIVERY
CALL FOR FREE DELIVERY 1 2 NOON TO 1 2 MIDNIGH682-333
C/> V )L
our dough mode FRESH doily ~ - r S
810 IVY STRUT  SHADYSIDi * * *682-3333
FREE DELIVERY TO: r0*
 Shodyside  P* Breere 
 Sq. Hill  Ooklond 
 Friendship Pork 
 Bloomfield 
 Highland Park.
(pGRII OIN$wIiEp p
COUPON
I I
P Large Cheese Pizza ;I $ 3.99 I
!______Freely ter of _c oke_________!
(Ail sandwiches come with c.eited provolone cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie..........................4.00S2 Hoagie............................... 2.00
Hot Sausage...........................3.90
Meat Ball................................3.90Cheese Hoagie........................3.20Steak Hoagie..............................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie...................4.20
Cold Sub......................................................... 4.00
Capicolla (Deluxe)....................................4.70
(Rati Italian Capicolla with Qrooti 
Heppers, Mushrooma A that Spoetai Touch)
*rath lattuoa. tomato. onion  untata apacitiadl 
Rapport or MuahroQmt  Extra
work to tell a story in many different 
orders." It's pretty hip stuff and definitely 
worth checking out.
There is no overall theme to the show that 
runs from Tuesday, February 10 through 
Sunday, February 15, but there is an 
opening at the Gallery Tuesday night from 
7:00pm to 9:00pm. Refreshments will be 
served and the public is invited.
Oh, by the way, keep an eye out for 
Carnegie Mellon Writers Guild student 
reading coming up later this semester at the 
Gallery.
&nnco sInternational
WASH 
and CUT 
$1000
or -
JUST CUT 
$800
with this coupon 
I have the edge in men's hair styling!
A6cYa0aT. $T1b6Td1acTdr rcc83 
aT yda6 31raT. :c6 ubT 
1c6 1yb Dd31 4 bd63119 Meyran Avenue, Oakland Between Forbes and Fifth
682-3738
nCLo x )P!,BP!! Aono
9lI2o , 2M9o , )P!,P!! Aono
Fda8 $T c6Appointment Appreciated
Expires 2/22/87
Spring T.V.
continued from page D3
dress in cowboy hats and boots, play
poker, and one of them even plays the
gee-tar.
Once you get over the ridiculous 
premise, though, Outlaws is as good 
as any other detective show on the air 
(which is by no means saying it's 
good, but if there's nothing else to do, 
at least it's tolerable). In fact, the 
premise, and the fact that the audience 
is "in" on their secret (they don't go 
around telling everyone that they come 
from another time) adds a touch of 
humor that may add a nice touch to an 
otherwise mediocre show.
What the viewer must be aware of is 
that the majority of Spring Season 
shows were designed to be fillers, to 
fill time slots left by first-round 
losers. They arent necessarily any 
better and aren't necessarily meant to 
last any longer, but the networks don't 
want us watching test patterns (or, 
God forbid, turning off the set) while 
awaiting the "new fall line."
Ifi
THE PITTSBURGH 
SYMPHONY
BlackWhite&Read
all over campus
The advantages of having your work published are countlessexperience, 
exposure, recognition, etc. So no matter how busy you are, why not submit a 
story or poem to Dossier/Tartan on a Macintosh disk by 5pm, February, 27th. 
And let everyone see you in print.
DOSL I T ,E R A TUREDESIGN

---------------------------------------------------

February 10, 1987The TartanPage Dll
Classifieds
===== Jobs/Wanted
Nassau/Paradise IslandNassau/r at auuc nuuiu  Spring Brcak 
from $299. Organize a small group and earn a 
free trip, for more information contact 
American Travel Services Inc. 1-800-231-
m 13.
group and earn a 
contact 
800-231-
0113.
Hiring Today! Top Pay! Work at home, 
no experience needed. Write Cottage 
Industries, 1407 1/2 Jenkins, Norman,
Oklahoma 73069.
STUDENTS: Work for Social Change!
Turn classroom philosophy into ACTION by 
campaigning for enforcement of 
environmental laws.
CLEAN WATER ACTION PROJECT 
765-3053
Immediate opening with paid training 
program. Career opportunities with national 
citizens' lobby. Earn $180+ bonus/week. 
Train part-time now to work full-time in 
summer. EOE.
Can you teach? Princeton Review SAT 
prep Course is looking for quick intelligent 
fun people to teach high school kids. Very 
fun job, very good pay. Contact Virginia 268- 
4873 (after 1 p.m.).
Work part-time on campus to organize 
students for enforcement of environmental 
laws. Politically minded and articulate people 
needed. Time management skills a must. 
Flexible hours. $25/day + bonus for qualified 
applicants. Call Anne Thomas at Clean Water 
Action 765-3053.
Summer Camp Counselors needed for 
Brother/Sister camp in Waynesboro, PA: 
Positions available for men and women in : 
Arts & Crafts, Photography, Ham Radio, 
Science, Rocketry, Riflery, Archery, 
Swimming, Lake Front, Nature, Gymnastics, 
Tennis, Theatre, Piano, and all sports 
activities. Also needed, Unit Leaders, Pool & 
Lake Director. Write Camp Director, 1 
Newtown Woods Rd., Newtown Square, PA 
19703 or phone (215) 353-0981.
Architectural student wanted for
private residence project. Wooded area 50 
miles south. Call early A.M. or late P.M. 239-
4212.
LEARN LISP PROGRAMMING and get
paid for it. The CMU Psychology Department 
is conducting an experiment on learning to 
program in LISP. The experiment consists of 
nightly 1.5 hour sessions (5 nights a week) 
for 2-3 weeks, and covers roughly 40% of an 
introductory LISP course. For more 
information, call Albert Corbett at x2815 or 
x3409.
Housing
Mature Non-smoking person to share 
cozy Sq. Hill duplex. $200 + utilities. Short 
time commitment OK. 422-5683. 15 min.
walk - CMU.
1/2-Block from CMU. Lower Beeler
St. HUGE (2500 sq. feet) 10-room, 2-story 
apt, 5-bedrooms, 2-living rooms, (22 ft x 17 
ft; 35 ft. x 14 ft.) 2-bathrooms, kitchen, 
dining room, small office, sun porch, garage, 
storm windows, 1 floor air-conditioned, 
washer $ dryer, comfortably suited for 7; 
$1550 p/mo +utilities. Available beginning 
of May. Call 521-9441 after 8 p.m.
Shadyside studio efficiency, bright, 
large closets, equipped kitchen, work-in 
kitchen, laundry, heat included, w/w carpet. 
Short-term lease available. $230 + el. 621 -
0636.
House for sale  owner, 156 Oakview 
Ave., Edgewood, $84,900. 8 rooms, 2 1/2 
baths, wooded lot, convenient transportation. 
On-street parking. Colonial, about 70 years 
old. Large living room, dining room (beamed 
ceiling and kitchen 12x8, small den, 4 
bedrooms. Open house February 15, 1987, 
Sunday 2-4 p.m.
Apartment, Squirrel Hill near Rhoda's, 
Bageland, Mineo's; on Douglas. Available 
March 1, $270 +elec. 521-6597.
Shadyside, No. Oakland. Furnished one 
bedroom, w/w carpeting, fully etiuippedkitchen, 
laundry facilities, off-st. parking, balcony, 
resident custodian. Negotiable lease. 621- 
0636.
Half a block from CMU  Beeler St.. 
Extremely large 2-floor apartment. 4 
bedrooms, large living room with log 
burning fireplace, 1-1/2 bathrooms, kitchen, 
dining room, small office, enclosed porch, 
private backyard, garage, several air 
conditioners, storm windows, washer & dryer, 
with carpeting in 3 bedrooms, comfortably 
suited for 5. Available May. $1100/month + 
utilities. Call 521-9441 evenings after 8 p.m.
1-Bedroom apt. Equipped kitchen, 
furniture. Negotiable $300/month (includes 
utilities). Available immediately. Close to 
campus. Call 321-0627.
Typing Services
Napoleon Office Services: Resumes/
Word Processing/ Writing Services/ Mailing 
List/ Typing/ Pick-up & Delivery/
Bookkeeping? Graphics...462-7109.
Services
MINUTE-MAIDS For all your house
keeping needs. Trained; Insured; Bonded, 
serving Pgh for 6 years. 682-3860.
"For the best in maids"
LiUle Ducklings Day Care, a better way 
to serve you. Ages 1-3. 5447 Bartlett Street, 
Squirrel Hill 521-7272.
Having a party? Don't have the time? 
Hors d'oeuvre, dessert & party trays. 
Satisfaction guaranteed. Catering services 
also avail. 261-0726 for info.
Safe, Permanent Hair Removal by
licensed Electrologist. Call Evie Wasosky at 
521-6234 after 5:00 for appointment or FREE 
CONSULTATION.
For Sale
76 Ford Granada - 4 door, 6 cyl,
automatic transmission, PS/PB, A/C, AM-FM 
Cassette. Clean, reliable, and seeks new 
home. Call Mark @ 621-6572 days, 683- 
4262 evenings.
ROSES  long stem  $49.50/dozen
with greens boxed $25.00/half dozen. Rose 
in bouqUet $16.95. One rose in vase $10.00 
...more Alex's Flowers, 687-4128.
MARIMBA  3-1/2 octave Deagan
Imperial. Rosewood bars, brass resonators, a 
beautiful instrument. Asking $1100. 322-
6278.
Autos
Travel
VISIT NICARAGUA: Intensive Spanish
courses, family living and community work 
in Esteli. Scholarships available. Apply now 
for 1987 sessions. NICA, P.O. Box 1409- 
CM, Cambridge, MA 02238. (617) 497-7142.
Valentines
Dearest Lyle,
HAPPY VALENTINE S DAY ! ! !
Wish I could be with you.
All my love,
Sandy
I LOVE YOU BUDDY! WANNA PLAY 
SCRABBLE?
ALL MY LOVE, 
YOUR BUDDY.
Alkie,
Thanks for being such a good friend when I 
need one most.
Fuggy Whipps
To the Floor in GSIA,
A walk into the woods might do us good.
Love, love, love,
9
FarkoshI'll be there before the next tear drop falls. 
SAY, SAY, SAY.
B.K.
SWF is looking for a Valentine.
Look right under your nose.
Lisa - 
Are you the greatest?
Soi-tenly
-US
Ed,
Happy Valentine's Day!
All of my love, 
Linda
Babbette
Love those curls! OXXO
BOB
Sara Jean,
This is weird, but fun!
Happy Valentine's Day!
From an Italian who's having trouble 
proving he's one!
Dear Scott H.,
Happy Valentine's Day to the man with the 
most beautiful blue eyes on campus!
Love,
Flapper
PYou don't know me but I know you like 
double chocolate malteds. Share one 
sometime?
XXOO
?
St. Louis,
You're a hot mama!
Kisses,
BOB
L.L.
Happy Birthday!
Will you be my Valentine?
Love,
Lady A.
I LOVE THIS GIRL!
SPRING BREAK VACATION. Dayton, 
Ft. Lauderdale, or South Padre TX. Starting at 
$139.00 7 nights Quad occupancy. Trans
portation packages available. For infor
mation call 1-800-222-4139. STUDENT
AGENTS WELCOME.
Spring Break '87 on the Florida beaches. 
LAST CHANCE! Miami Beach/Fort Lauderdale, 
Daytona Beach, Fort Walton Beach, from $87 
for the week! HURRY, call Sunchase Tours 
toll free hot line 1-800-321-5911 for last 
minute information and reservations TODAY!
Mise
. . . SEND A VALENTINES GIFT ? ?
We will do it ALL for you!!! WRAPPINGPACKING-SHIPPING. You're gonna love us 
foithis...OVERNIGHT-NATIONWIDE-WORLD 
WIDE. M-F 9 to 5. Free parking. Open 
year round. WRAP AND PACK, 233 Spahr 
St. (Off Ellsworth) . Shadyside, 441-7722.
Rates:
1-20 wds 
21-50 wds 
Over 50 wds
$3.00
$5.00
$8.00
Help bring the world together. Host an
student
International Youth Exchange, a Presidential Initiative for peace, brings teenager^,from other countries to live for a time with American families and attend American schools. Learn about participating as a volunteer host family.
Write: YOUTH EXCHANGE 
Pueblo, Colorado 81009
The International \buth Exchange.
76 Ford Granada - 4 door, 6 cyl,
automatic transmission, PS/PB, A/C, AM-FM 
Cassette. Clean, reliable, and seeks new 
home. Call Mark @ 621-6572 days, 683- 
4262 evenings.
Autos. Graduating students, lease for 
less. Any make or model. Call: George or 
Fran 264-9350.
Personal, Greek, and Classified ads are taken 
by mail or in our office, Skibo 50, only.
We can bill Classifieds, but Personal and 
Greek ads must be prepaid.
I--------------------------------------------------------------
Classified order form:
Please run the following classified / personal (circle one) in your nextissues.
Payment must be enclosed.Mail to: The Tartan
Box 17
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12The TartanFebruary 10,1987
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm, in 
his office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, 
February 18. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his secretary 
at 268-2200 to set up an appointment.
Modern Language Dept. Scholar
ships. Three scholarships, $500 each, will 
be applied toward partial payment of CM 
tuition and four weeks' room and board abroad 
in France and Germany. Application forms 
are available in BH 240. Deadline March 10.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more 
information call 681-3181.
GALA Rap Session. Think you might be
gay? Want to talk about it? To supplement
its regular meetings, the CM Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance is initiating a series of biweekly 
gatherings where you can discuss issues that 
are important to you in a casual and
sympathetic environment. For details, 
contact GALA via campus mail c/o Skibo
Information Desk or via computer mail to 
ga0y@tb. All responses are confidential.
Ronald Romano presents "Recent 
Abstractions" at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts, Fifth and Shady Avenues, through 
February 22. Gallery hours are 10 am - 5 pm, 
Tuesday through Saturday and 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday.
Laserium. Journey to 
an energetic and colorful world where blazing 
lights and magical images glow and gyrate to 
music by rock's most spectacular artists in 
Laserium, presented live under the stars at 8 
pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday through Sunday; 
and 3 pm, Saturday. For current concerts call 
321-5554.
Buhl Science Center. "Color," nineteen
do-it-yourself modules explore the mysteries 
behind everyday color phenomena. 
Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday 
through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 
and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more 
information call 321-4300.
"Image Imagination," hands-on modules 
explore amazing images - let your 
imagination run wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
Pgh Playhouse Junior Children's 
Theatre. The Elves and the Shoemaker. 
Magic is the order of the day in this classic 
story! The poor shoemaker and his family 
are set upon by the evil Heckla. But the 
elves have a few tricks up their sleeves and 
save the day, at 11 am and 2:30 pm, 
Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, through 
March 29.
Pgh. Playhouse Theatre. Brighton
Beach Memoirs. Rockwell Theatre at 2 pm 
and 7 pm, Sunday; 8 pm, Tuesday through 
Saturday; through February 15. For ticket 
information call 621-4445.
Events
1 A Tuesday
M Movies
A Great Wall, starring Peter Wang, Sharon 
Iwai, Kelvin Han Yee and Li Qinqin. Pleasant 
film about a cultural clash when a Chinese - 
American family visits Mainland China. 
First US-China co-production. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Lectures
MCS Science Seminar. Steven E.
Starve, Associate Professor, Dept. of
Mathematics speaks on "Martingales, the
Gersanov Theorem and the New York Stock 
Exchange" at 3:45 pm in the Wherrett Room, 
Skibo.
Workshops
Resume Writing. Get your resume off the 
ground by learning some guidelines. See 
examples and conduct a resume critique as if 
you were the personnel officer. Students of 
all majors welcome to each workshop at 4:30 
pm in Skibo room 13.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
1 ^Wednesday
X. X. Movies
Death in Venice, starring Dirk Bogarde, 
Mark Bums, Marisa Berenson and Bjom 
Andresen. Occasionally strong adaptation of 
Thomas Manns novella about a mans 
desperate search for beauty. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:45 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
An American in Paris, starring Gene 
Kelly. 8 & 10 pm in Scotland Yard.
Lectures
AIESEC sponsors Mr. Mark Norton, 
VP of International Banking at 
Pittsburgh National Bank. The lecture 
on international banking is open to all 
members.
Dept of Architecture Seminar. Volker 
Hartkopf speaks at 12:30 pm in CFA room 
206.
Biomedical Engineering Under
graduate Meeting. Let us meet to discuss 
"summer opportunities" available and any 
questions you may have regarding Biomedical 
Engineering course curriculum at 4:30 pm in 
DH 2200.
Dept. of Mechanical Engineering 
Guest Lecture. Professor Gerard M. Faeth, 
Mechanical Engineering Dept., University of 
Michigan, speaks on "Turbulence/Drop 
Interactions in Sprays" at 3:15 pm in the 
Scaife Hall Auditorium. Coffee and donuts are 
served at 2:45 pm in the Scaife Hall Lounge, 
room 322.
Workshops
Spring/Summer Job Fair Hosted by 
Career Services & Placement. All students are 
invited to informally meet with employers 
from across the country about summer and/or 
permanent job opportunities. Employer 
participant lists will be available in the 
Career Services & Placement Office, WH 19. 
The Fair is from 10 am - 3 pm in the Skibo 
Ballroom.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
\ ^ Thursday
Movies
The Americanization of Emily,
starring James Gamer, Julie Andrews, Melvyn 
Douglas and James Cobum. Superior script 
by Paddy Chayefsky plus splendid acting 
from Gamer and Andrews make this satire of 
the military one of the 1960's best black 
comedies. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Alien, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 
6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission $1.
Lectures
Rap with us at 7:30 in the H&SS 
lounge in an innovative and stimulating 
discussion about Phyllis Schlafly. Sponsored 
by a brand-new women's discussion group. 
Relaxed, refreshments. Open to men and 
women young and old.
Bioengineering Graduate Seminar.
Dr. Gary R. Bright, Biological Sciences, 
speaks on "Fluorescence Ratio Imaging 
Microscopy: Temporal and Spatial
Measurements of pH in Single Cells" at 
12:30 pm in DH 1102. A light lunch is 
served at noon prior to the seminar and a 
question-and-answer session follows.
The Pittsburgh Supercomputing
Center Seminar. Andrew Komomicki, 
Poly atomics Corp., speaks on "Quantum 
Chemistry Using Supercomputers" at 4 pm in 
Mellon Institute, room 355. A short
reception follows.
Materials Science and Engineering 
Seminar. Dr. M. Farinacci, Alcoa Tech 
Center, speaks on "Knowledge Based System 
to Aid Designs" at 3:30 pm in Benedum Hall, 
room 823. Refreshments are served after the 
seminar in room 848.
Workshops
Job Search Communications. Create a
positive impression upon potential 
employers with your careful and business-like 
approach to written communication. Learn 
about different types of letters you might be 
required to prepare during a job search, 
including cover letters, acceptance of an 
offer, decline of an offer and others used in 
that process at 11:30 am in Skibo room 13. 
On-Site Visits. You've received an 
invitation to visit the company for a second 
interview. We'll discuss the dynamics of this 
visit: How to prepare for it; what may occur 
during the visit and what may be expected of 
you at 4:30 pm in Skibo room 13.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language Table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
English Table. The ESL (English as a 
Second Language) center sponsors an English 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
l' Friday
JL Movies
9 1/2 Weeks, starring Kirrr "Basinger and 
Mickey Rourke. An erotic film about a man 
who attempts to exert his mastery over a 
woman. Some steemy scenes. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 
pm. Admission $2.95.
Aliens, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. Admission $1.
Bless Their Little Hearts and I and I: 
an African Allegory. Hearts is the story of 
Charlie Banks, a black factory worker facing 
the test of long-term unemployment. We 
follow Charlie through a series of odd jobs 
and crises to examine his relationships with 
his family and friends. I and I uses a mythic 
figure to connect its episodes. The Carnegie 
Museum of Art at 8 pm. Admission $3.
Music
The Toll makes a live appearance at 
Scotland Yard.
Dept of Music Student Recital.
Anthony DeMarco, violin, performs at 8 pm 
in the Alumni Concert Hall, CFA.
1 4 SaturdayJL Movies
Peggy Sue Got Married, starring 
Kathleen Turner, Barbara Harris, Don Murray 
and Nicolas Cage. Fascinating comedy about 
a 43-year old woman who at her 25th high 
school reunion faints and travels back to 
1960 when she was 18. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Man Who Fell to Earth. This 
astonishing, unconventional science fiction 
film is based on a novel by Walter Tevis. 
Roeg has again brilliantly chosen to star a 
media personality in the leading role. David
Bowie uses his remote, elegant persona to 
portray a frail and exotic ingenue from outer 
space who is finally defeated by American 
capitalism, modem technology, and human 
desire. Carnegie Museum of Art at 8 pm 
Admission $3.
VaDen&SfinDss IIMy Ewnnds
Be on the cut Valentine's Day at 
1:00 to greet Cupid. She will make two 
rounds around the cut bestowing kisses upon 
the young gentlemen of CMU.
Sexy Body Parts Contest returns to 
Scotland Yard at 10 pm. Be there!!!!
Clubs
Gaming Club Meeting. Open gaming 
meeting. Relax with a game - try anything 
from Dungeons and Dragons to your favorite 
board game or strategy game. Meeting at 1 
pm in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Check the 
bulletin board at the Skibo information desk. 
For more information call x4217.
1 C Sunday
JL Movies
She Done Him Wrong, starring Mae
West and Cary Grant. A treasure of a film! 
Mae West invites Grant to come up and see 
her sometime, and sings "I Wonder Where My 
Easy Riders Gone," in this funny film that
takes place in the Bowery in the 1890's.
Based on her own Broadway hit "Diamond 
Lil." Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 
9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Dark Crystal, sponsored by AB
Films. DH at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. 
Admission $1.
1 /C Monday
-A. Vr Movies
The Hunger, starring Catherine Deneuve, 
David Bowie and Susan Sarandon. If you like 
vampires, high fashion, and a little 
decadence, you'll like this film. It's like a 
series of often striking images that linger in 
the mind. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Healthful Mondays Lunchtime
Seminar. Bring a bag lunch and listen to 
and participate with a speaker presenting 
"Back Massage for Back Problems" at 11:30 
in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
Workshops
Career Planning For H&SS Freshmen
& Sophomores. Not all History majors 
become lawyers! Not all English majors 
become writers! An IM major isn't the only 
path to business! Explore your options. To 
choose or confirm your major, get 
information about the career decision making 
process, diverse career opportunities for each 
major, and how to make the most of Career 
Services and Placement throughout your years 
here.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan, send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between AY and 
Am).
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event, 
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and 
phone number of the person submitting the 
entry; this information will be used only to 
confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In >. 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
Deadline for ACME submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next 
weeks issue.
