by Alexandra Kliduff
Staffwriter
Over the past decade, Pittsburgh 
has repeatedly been named by Rand 
McNally as one of the most livable 
cities in America. Recently, however, 
the city of Pittsburgh has found itself 
in a financial crisis. An increase in 
spending and a decrease in funds 
have led Pittsburgh to contemplate 
! claiming bankruptcy.
Its a big, complex, highly 
charged situation, said Robert 
Strauss, professor of economics and 
public policy at the Heinz School. 
Pittsburgh, according to Strauss, 
simply spends more money than it 
has access to. In December of 2002, 
the mayor proposed and council 
adopted a budget that was to be bal
anced by the creation of new taxing 
authority by the State. [The taxing 
authority] never happened.
Pittsburgh also receives a consid
erable amount of its income from 
business real-estate taxes. However, 
in the last several years, the popula
tion has decreased roughly from 
750,000 to only 327,000, with busi
nesses pulling out, leaving the 
Pittsburgh economy with a substan
tial gap. The lack of business invest
ment has led to a steep decrease in 
Pittsburghs municipal bond values, 
Strauss added. In October 2003, they 
fell to junk bond status.
Junk bonds are just bonds with a 
low rating, meaning there is a high 
chance the lender will default and
not fully pay off the bonds, said eco
nomics professor Steven Klepper. 
Such bonds are not of much value to 
the city as a source of income.
Pittsburgh has also not been able 
to decrease spending in some 
schools, fire departments, or police 
departments due to previous long
term contracts they made with labor 
unions.
Exactly how the city plans to recti
fy all of its fiscal problems remains to 
be seen, but steps have already been 
taken to raise revenue again. The city 
has cut back on some police and fire 
services and has also made consider
able increases in parking. According 
to Pittsburgh Post-Gazette reporter 
Tim McNulty, Pittsburgh parking 
prices have gone up considerably in
certain areas of the city. In his recent 
article entitled City Officials Will 
Still Pay Less to Park, he stated that 
the Pittsburgh Parking Authority, 
which owns some 8000 spaces in 
Pittsburgh, will be raising its rates by 
two to three dollars a day.
The Oakland area directly around
See PAT, page A4
by Hannah Yi
Staffwriter
Several international CMU gradu
ate students applying for visas to 
reenter the U.S. underwent extensive 
background checks by the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation (FBI). These 
checks were carried out for national 
security reasons that have recently 
become an area of concern after the 
9/11 Homeland Security act. Due to 
the lengthy security clearance proce
dure, visas were delayed and stu
dents were indeterminately stuck in 
their home country, unable to contin
ue their graduate studies or research 
as planned. ,
Security clearances during the visa 
process are not new procedures. 
However, September 11 has changed 
many things and the government has 
taken extra precautions to safeguard 
the nation by increasing their scruti
ny on whom to allow entry. This wari
ness stems from the evidence that the 
September 11 hijackers entered the 
U.S. with student visas. As a result, 
the governments caution about issu
ing visas has manifested itself in a 
heightened focus on the Technology 
Alert List (TAL).
The TAL was implemented in 
November 2000 and helps consular 
officials discern which persons might 
be suspicious. It identifies 16 cate
gories as sensitive fields which 
include: chemical and biotechnology 
engineering, materials technology, 
advanced computer technology, and 
information security. Students that 
work or study in closely related fields 
are subjected to increased security 
clearance.
The TAL also targets non-prolifer
ation export control countries, 
which include China, India, Israel, 
Pakistan, and Russia. The govern
ment has targeted these countries 
because they all have nuclear capabil
ity and may illegally share technolog
ical information.
If consular officials find key words 
related to the sensitive fields in the 
application or have an inkling of sus
picion about the visa applicant, they 
have the responsibility to send the 
documents to Washington D.C. for 
further review by the FBI. Otherwise, 
the visa may be issued on the spot 
without a security clearance.
Lisa Krieg, director of the Office of 
International Education (OIE), said 
that there have been a total of nine 
reported cases at CMU where inter
national graduate students were 
unable to return as planned because 
of delayed visas. In December 2002 
we had a little rash of them, but it 
wasnt as bad as this year.
CMU is not the only university that
See VISAS, page A4
Volume 98, issue 14www.thetartan.org26 January 2004
Pittsburgh deficit affects city services
Students and local residents board a Port Authority bus. PAT is one of the many Pittsburgh affiliates forced to reduce its 
services due to increasing city deficits.
International students 
facing visa difficulties
New life for Mac users
iLife 04 brings new features and an entire new 
application, GarageBand to the software suite. 
SciTech, A6
Dance/Light Festival
Choreographers and dancers dabble in each 
others craft as they display their talents on stage. 
Pillbox, IO-II
Addition to the House
James Auwaerter pushes for more seats and more 
representation in Congress.
Forum, A8
Founded in 1 g06 
Independent since 2002THE TARTAN
Senate vacancies 
increase over break
by Jenny Kim
Junior Staffwriter
The start of the semester has seen an 
increase in the number of vacancies in 
Student Senate, rising to 11 empty 
seats. Keeping all the seats in the senate 
filled is a recurring problem, especially 
with regard to the vacancies left in CFA. 
At the start of the 2003 spring semes
ter, there were 14 vacancies in the sen
ate, leading the 
remaining mem
bers to search for 
students to fill 
the seats. Three 
of the vacancies 
were due to stu
dents having left 
campus to study 
abroad or to take a semester off. 
Graduation and scheduling conflicts 
have resulted in students leaving the 
senate as well.
Last semester was uncontrollable 
because the remaining four weren't 
filled, but it was due to peoples sched
ules or priorities changing, said Vito 
Fiore, chair of Student Senate. There 
are a total of 38 seats in the senate.
Dan Gilman, student body president, 
said, There are many new students 
that are interested in filling these seats. 
I think that new students bring a fresh 
attitude and it never hurts to get new 
ideas.
I certainly wouldnt call this a sud
den or unexpected decline, but a new
iLfe04b Scocozzo
opportunity to bring people into the 
system with the turnover of the new 
semester, said Fiore. The vacancies 
are already being publicized and we 
have already heard significant interest 
from the student body in these seats, 
which would be valid through April 
29. That date marks the end of sen
ates session.
According to Gilman, Senate is cur
rently working on winter activities and 
advertising campaigns. Its recent suc
cesses include the diploma issues and 
the H&SS overload policy. Gilman 
mentioned that these students have a 
willingness to cooperate and improve 
on school issues. In addition to the 
upcoming winter activities, Nicholas 
Scocozzo, internal development chair 
and sophomore in chemical and bio
medical engineering, mentioned other 
goals the group has in mind.
This semester we're focusing on 
communication and the information 
sheet, said Scocozzo. Campus life has 
had a sense of disconnectedness and 
the Student Senate is making efforts to 
try to work together with the relevant 
groups. Lasdy, we're trying to make 
revisions to the constitution so that we 
could get rid of vagueness.
To fill in the vacancies, many mem
bers in the communications group col
laborated for poster campaigns. The 
staff, Scocozzo confirmed, is looking 
forward to the first week of February 
for the elections
See SENATE, page A4
Kevin Chang/Science & Technology Editor
Home, sweet home
Tracy Llenos (left), Annie Savarese, Carl Martin, and Olivia Custodio make themselves feel at home in Tech House 
during a break from Sleeping Bag weekend activities.
CMU students settle civil rights lawsuit
Some students involved in Washington D.C. arrests in September 2002 to donate settlement
File Photo
Mark Egerman is detained by police in Washington D.C. The Tartan initially cov
ered this story in the September, 30, 2002 issue.
by James Tetlow
Staffwriter
Three art students currently 
attending the Corcoran College of 
Art and Design were recently com
pensated between $7000 and 
$10,000 each in a lawsuit against 
the District of Columbia. The lawsuit 
was filed in response to police 
actions during a 2002 anti-war and 
anti-globalization protest that 
included several students from 
CMU.
The Partnership for Civil Justice 
and the National Lawyers Guild 
Mass Defense Committee filed the 
suit in response to the incident 
which occurred on September 27, 
2002 in Pershing Park, Washington, 
D.C.
Jared Glover, currently a senior in 
computer science and a staff mem
ber at the Center for Automated
Learning and Discovery, was one of 
the CMU students involved in the 
protest against the International 
Monetary Fund and World Bank.
We coordinated our numbers 
[with groups from several other 
cities] to do a mass civil disobedi
ence demonstration  blocking off 
traffic  with each group having 
adifferent intersection. We arrived 
at our intersection 10 to 15 minutes 
late, and within five minutes the 
police were all over us, said Glover. 
The police told us to get out of the 
street or we would be arrested. My 
understanding is that when you 
protest you go in knowing that you 
are going to be arrested, that its a 
sacrifice you make for your beliefs. 
However, our leaders decided that it 
would be better if we started march
ing down the sidewalks instead.
By then, the Washington, D.C. 
Police Department had assembled a 
force of over 5350 police officers to
deal with the protesters. According 
to Glover, While we were marching 
the police walked along beside us. 
There were so many police in the 
streets that they blocked off the traf
fic for us; the police began to funnel 
everyone into Pershing Park. We got 
there and the police slowly circled 
the area. People were playing drums 
and singing, and we just sat there as 
the police moved around us and 
wouldnt let anyone in or out. 
Eventually there seemed to be as 
many police as there were protest
ers, and they came in this big ring 
and rushed us.
Several national papers including 
the Los Angeles Times and the 
Boston Globe documenting the inci
dent ran articles featuring a picture 
of a CMU student being wrestled to 
the ground by police during the 
arrests.
See ARRESTS, page A4
CFAs Zebra 
lounge an 
instant hit
by Bary Dunn
News Editor
Two weeks ago, Dean of CFA 
Martin Prekops dream finally came 
true, as the Zebra Lounge became 
available to the public. Prekop had 
dreamt of incorporating a 
student/faculty gathering place in 
the College of Fine Arts for a long 
time.
It looks good, Prekop said. 
People seem happy with it.... I guess 
its a hit.
Prekop approached Student 
Activities toward the end of 
September with his idea of opening a 
coffee shop lounge in the former 
Hewlitt Gallery of CFA, a room acces
sible via the colleges main lobby. 
Once the idea was approved, Dan 
Barnett of Student Affairs and opera
tor of Andys and Skibo Coffeehouse, 
became responsible for integrating 
the lounges beverage stand. It was 
Prekop, though, who offered the 
unique zebra theme used throughout 
the lounge.
Prekop was designated an entire 
room for an exhibit at Pittsburghs 
Center for the Arts last spring, where 
he first displayed his zebra furniture. 
With his wife and three sons, Prekop 
shaped wood panels into lawn chairs, 
dressed with black and white stripes 
of paint. These lawn chairs, which 
formulated the lounges theme, con
tributed only in part to the rooms 
contents. Prekop built tables and 
chairs last summer to fill much of the 
lounge in addition to providing a 
stereo system that plays music 
throughout the day, and a piano, as 
performances and poetry readings 
will often be held.
The art from the Hewlitt Gallery 
was transferred to the Regina Gouger 
Miller Gallery upon its opening a few 
years ago, leaving the room in CFA 
vacant. The gallery was once used to 
display the artwork of students, facul
ty, staff, and alumni alike; Prekop 
hopes to resurrect that exhibition. 
The first step in this direction was 
Prekops construction of a Zebra 
Lounge collage that rests just outside 
the rooms entrance.
The Zebra Lounge, run independ
ently of Skibo and Andys, marks the 
first food service offered in CFA since 
La Prima had a cart in the basement a 
couple years ago. The lounge is cur
rently open Monday through Friday, 
between 8 am and 5 pm, though 
Barnett hopes to eventually extend 
the hours until midnight. What 
makes the beverage service at the
See ZEBRA, page A4

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  JANUARY 26,2004
F&ge ^
Volume9 8m,is9 14osw.uo9 thawrume
^feather
TUESDAY
Hi 30 
Lo 22
WEDNESDAY
Hi 27 
Lo 21
THURSDAY
Hi 35 
Lo 27
FRIDAY
Hi 32 
Lo 16
SATURDAY
Hi 28 
Lo 28
~~r~ -----------
ing to count change in his hand. He 
was reported to be a frequent visitor 
of the University Centers Scotland 
Yard.
Illicit Pom, 1/22/04,11:44pm A 
student at the Hunt Library front 
desk reported to the campus police 
that a short white male wearing 
glasses with frizzy hair was on the 
fourth floor downloading pornogra-. 
phy. The student said he had 
received many complaints about 
this male, but he was unable to 
catch him. Another student report
ed that while he was working on the 
fourth floor he observed on the 
computer screen a picture of two 
men, performing oral sex on the 
other one. When the officer 
approached a male fitting the physi
cal description sitting at a fourth 
fioor computer, the male denied 
looking at pornography on the 
screen. A verbal warning was given 
to the male, stating that he should 
leave the library and not return 
unless he is there to study or do
Crime & Incident
Doherty Hall Thefts, 1/18/04, 
10:36 am  On a building check of 
Doherty Hall, an officer found that 
the door to room 2210 was 
unlocked. Upon investigation, he 
found that the computer at the 
podium was without its front cover* 
the CD drive was missing, and there 
was a small screw on the floor. The 
officer went to Room 2315 where 
the computer was pulled out several 
inches, the podium door was pried 
open, and three small screws and a 
silver bracket were found on the 
floor. On the following check of 
room 1212, it was found that the 
door was also unlocked with all the 
lights turned on. The podium door 
had been pried open in this room, 
with a similar silver bracket found 
on the floor. The cost of these 
damanges is unknown. Later it was 
found that Instructional Technology 
was a victim of this same type of 
theft.
Intoxicated Female, 1/18/04, 
1:52 am  Two unknown females
were observed in the first floor mens 
restroom in the UC, near the 
McConomy Auditorium. One of the 
females was bent over the toilet The 
friend reported that they were drinking 
mixed drinks and hard alcohol when 
they went to the Original Hotdog Shop. 
She left to use the bathroom. When she 
returned to the O, she discovered that 
her friend was not there and asked an 
employee where she had gone. He 
responded that she had been carried by 
two unknown males into the mens 
restroom. The officer that responded to 
this incident reported that she was in a 
very intoxicated state, so he called the 
city medics. He also requested that they 
mow to the womens restroom since a 
line was forming in the hall for the 
mens restroom. Both students were 
cited for purchase, consumption, and 
possession or transportation of liquor.
Theft, 1/19/04, 9:38 am  The
supervisor of La Prima Espresso 
Caf in Wean Hall reported to an 
officer near the building that some
one removed five bottles of Sobe 
beverages from their caged storage 
area in Wean Hall. The supervisor 
also said that the same type of theft 
occurred last weekend, and in the 
past six months La Prima Espresso 
Caf had nine thefts of this type all 
occurring during the weekend. The 
total cost lost from the theft of the 
Sobe drinks: $9.50.
Possible Fight, 1/21/04, 5:31 
pmTwo officers responded to the 
University Center concerning a fight 
in Kirr Commons. A CMU student 
reported that he was pushed into a 
chair by a male carrying a metal bat. 
Another student who had witnessed 
the incident described the actor as 
an Asian male who announced to 
them that they would take this out
side. Once outside, the males 
became involved in a verbal con
frontation, but no physical contact 
was made. After interviewing the 
students involved, it was found that 
the actors had previously agreed to 
meet at the black chairs concerning 
a disagreement over some posts 
made on a website. The actor who 
brought the bat said the bat was for, 
his protection. Both were issued 
citations, and verbal no-contact 
orders. The metal bat was confiscat
ed and will not be returned.
Suspicious Person, 1/21/04, 
7:18 pm  An officer was dis
patched to the University Center 
basement area to investigate a suspi
cious person. The actor was 
described as possibly a 45-year-old 
Korean male,, approximately 510, 
200 pounds, balding with black 
hair, wearing a dark colored winter 
coat, and dark dress pants. The indi
vidual was observed walking up and 
down the hallway area and pretendbasketball. A National City debit 
card and a Chase Manhattan Bank 
of Hong Kong credit card were 
taken, the accounts of which were 
canceled the next day. The 
unknown actor had charged approx
imately $4000 to the Chase 
Manhattan card.
Stolen Laptop, 1/21/04,3:34pm 
University Police recieved a call 
from a CMU student for a theft 
report. The student had left his 15 
inch Apple laptop computer unat
tended -on the second floor of the 
University Center Kirr Commons 
when he went to get food. When he 
returned, the laptop was gone from 
undearneath the table. The comput
er was in a dark gray Incase com
puter bag with a total value of 
$2000.
research.
Stolen Credit Cards, 1/22/04, 
4:13 pm  A CMU student report
ed that an unknown actor removed 
two credit cards from his wallet. The 
wallet was left in his coat lying on 
the... gym floor in the University 
Center gym while he was playing
Incident tallies 1/16 to 1/22
Injuries from Ice: 3
Cost of Stolen Items: $6139.50
Rides Provided by Police: 3
Broken Water Pipes: 2
IPage 2 compiled by 
Christina Kung
Experiments lead 
to animal deaths
MEDFORD, Mass. (U-WIRE)  
The Tufts University School of 
Veterinary Medicine is facing contro
versy after euthanizing five dogs ear
lier this month. Five test dogs were 
put to sleep on New Years Day after 
their legs had been purposely broken 
and re-healed using different tech
niques.
After the dogs were put down, 
their bodies were tested to determine 
the strength of the healed bones.
The killings were defended by doc
tors and veterinarians. The doctors 
explained that these test dogs were 
not suitable to have as pets and had 
been bred for research purposes, fol
lowing the rules of the American 
Veterinary Medical Association.
The dogs were given lethal injec
tions, complying with AVMA stan
dards, and were euthanized in a 
humane manner as would have 
occurred in any veterinary clinic, 
public relations manager Barbara 
Donato said.
The Institutional Animal Care and
Use Committee, a federally mandat
ed board at the vet school, gave the 
final approval for the research.
The veterinary school has already 
been facing a public controversy. It is 
fighting to keep its state funding 
which has been under fire over the 
last few years.
Vet school students received a let
ter stating that Tufts, in conjunction 
with an orthopedic organization and 
pet-food company Hills, would be 
providing th majority of the funding 
to the veterinary program, masters 
student Tara Turner said. The major
ity of the protesting students are in 
the Master of Science and Animals in 
Public Policy program, which does 
not commonly work with animals 
and instead focuses on policy issues.
Several students were outraged 
when they learned that the school 
was to conduct this experiment, and 
many of these students conducted 
their own research to find non-lethal 
methods that the veterinarians could 
use in lieu of euthanasia.
Tara Turner is a student in the mas
ters program at the vet school and 
has been active in this research 
process. But she is hearing both sup
port and criticism for her efforts.
Weve received support from the 
public, but mostly we have received 
angry e-mails from students, telling
us that were making a big deal out 
of this, and that this story is mak
ing us look bad  which I under
stand  but I don't think they 
understand the process we went 
through, Turner said.
The overwhelming amount of 
attention and press received in 
Grafton, Mass., has been enough to 
upset local residents as well.
Lifelong Grafton resident John 
LaPoint was concerned with the 
speed and pervasiveness with 
which the news spread and how 
the town was associated with the 
killings.
I personally feel that this public 
relations blunder and the continu
ing backlash against the vet school 
does not play well in terms of the 
town and Tufts trying to recruit 
new businesses, he said.
Examples of the healing meth
ods used in the dogs legs were the 
common pins and rods treat
ment, and the newly developed 
flexible bone brace. The schools 
researchers claim that this research 
has the potential to yield incredible 
results and is a vital experiment for 
the animal medical field. If the 
research is successful, it has the 
potential to give dogs with tibia 
fractures a newer and faster heal
ing system.
High-tech bone scanners were
proposed, but the veterinarians 
found this and other non-lethal 
methods to be insufficient for 
attaining the results they needed. 
The Massachusetts Society for the 
Prevention of Cruelty to Animals 
had also called upon the Veterinary 
School to find more humane treat
ments.
When Turner and her group 
approached the veterinarians and 
administration with non-lethal 
methods, they were told its not 
that [the non-lethal methods] 
wouldnt work, but that [the doc
tors] method was superior, said 
Turner. The doctors didnt give us 
any scientific reasoning, which was 
very frustrating.
Motorists can be 
questioned
CARBONDALE, 111. (U-WIRE)  
In a Supereme Cort 67-3 decision, 
justices made it legal for police offi
cers to put up roadblocks in order 
to ask motorists if they know any
thing about crimes that have 
occurred in the area.
The case spurred from a 1997 
incident in Lombard, 111., when 
Robert Lidster was stopped for 
questioning about a hit-and-run
fatality, given a citation and later 
charged with drunkdriving.
As his defense, Lidster said his 
Fourth Amendment rights were 
violated. After the Illinois Supreme 
Court ruled in his favor, Attorney 
General Lisa Madigan appealed to 
the U.S. Supreme Court and said 
the public should have the right to 
volunteer information to help 
police solve crimes.
Tim Capps, a leading defense 
lawyer in Southern Illinois, said 
Lidster was subjected to unreason
able search and seizure.
There is nothing voluntary 
about uniformed police turning the 
lights on their squad car so they 
can talk to you and the whole line 
of people behind you, Capps said. 
Were seeing a constant erosion of 
constitutional rights. This decision 
definitely goes in the wrong direc
tion.
In a partial dissenting opinion, 
Justice Stevens, also speaking for 
Justices Souter and Ginsburg, said 
the drivers rights would be violat
ed when stopped.
Southern Illinois University 
Police Capt. Todd Sigler and 
Carbondale Police Interim Chief 
Steve Odum said their departments 
have never used any form of a 
roadblock where motorists are 
pulled over for questioning.
World Wire
U.S. arrests nearly 50 
in Iraq; GI dies
TIKRIT, Iraq (AP)  U.S. soldiers arrested 
nearly 50 people and confiscated weapons in 
several raids in Iraqs volatile Sunni Triangle 
after a series of bombings that killed six U.S. 
soldiers.
A U.S. soldier died Sunday of wounds suf
fered in a grenade attack on his Bradley vehi
cle that was patrolling a central Iraqi town of 
Beiji the day before, said Maj. Josslyn Aberle, 
a spokeswoman for the 4th Infantry Division.
Five other U.S. soldiers were killed in sepa
rate bombings and a blast that narrowly 
missed an American convoy killed four Iraqis 
and wounded about 40 others in a bloody day 
of attacks on Saturday.
The deaths raised to 513 the number of U.S. 
service members who have died since the 
United States and its allies launched the Iraq 
war March 20. Most of the deaths have 
occurred since President Bush declared an 
end to active combat May 1.
The violence underscores continued resis
tance to the American occupation that is 
strongest in the Sunni heartland north and 
west of Baghdad, despite the Dec. 13 capture 
of Saddam Hussein.
France welcomes 
Chinese president
PARIS (AP)  France did more than roll 
out the red carpet for the state visit starting 
Monday, Janurary 26th, of Chinese President 
Hu Jintao. It lit up the Eiffel Tower in red and 
held an eye-popping weekend parade with 
more than 7,000 participants.
The parade down the Champs-Elysees on 
Saturday, coupled with Hus four-day visit, is 
to fete 40 years of diplomatic ties with Beijing. 
France has dubbed 2004 the Year of China 
in France, but the parade also marked the 
start of the Chinese lunar New Year  the 
Year of the Monkey.
An estimated 200,000 people thronged 
Paris most famous avenue to gawk at the 
spectacle of giant dragons, some 50 floats, 
acrobats, martial arts experts, drummers or 
cymbal players.
Red lanterns lined the Champs-Elysees, and 
multicolored umbrellas added to the festival 
of colors.
At nightfall, the Eiffel Tower was awash in 
red, a spectacle to be repeated over the next 
week.
Hu, escorted by President Jacques Chirac, is 
to get his own viewing of the red tower on 
Tuesday, when the Year of China is formally 
inaugurated and when Hu is to address 
French lawmakers, a privilege accorded to but 
a handful of foreign leaders.
France is on the leading edge of European 
nations looking to strengthen ties with China. 
Former French President Charles de Gaulle 
and Chinese leader Mao Zedong first agreed 
to diplomatic relations four decades ago.
Todays China, with its expanding economy and 
increasing interdependence with Europe, makes 
stronger ties an important foreign policy initiative for 
Paris.
Concrete issues  some of them thorny  
were on the agenda for Hu, who is traveling to 
Egypt, Gabon and Algeria after his Paris visit.
The reconstruction of Iraq will be dis
cussed, according to Chinese diplomats. 
Beijing, like Paris, opposed the U.S.-led mili
tary intervention in Iraq. China and France 
are both permanent U.S. Security Council 
members.
A European Union ban on arms sales to 
China, which France has been working to lift, 
also is on the agenda. The embargo was 
imposed after the bloody 1989 military crack
down on pro-democracy demonstrations in 
Beijings Tiananmen Square.
There is still concern here over China's 
human rights record highlighted by the 
Tiananmen crackdown.
The delicate question of human rights will 
naturally be evoked, said an official in 
Chirac's entourage, asking not to be identified 
by name.
Socialist lawmaker Jack Lang, a former minister, 
was quoted by the daily Le Monde as saying that 
diplomatic relations must not lead us to keep 
silent about the absence of democracy in 
China.
NationWire
Toddler among six 
dead in motel fire
GREENVILLE, S.C. (AP) Fire broke out early 
Sunday in a five-story motel, killing six peo
ple, including a toddler, and injuring at least a 
dozen others, authorities said.
The blaze began about 4 a.m. on the third 
floor of the Comfort Inn in Greenville, in the 
northwest corner of South Carolina. With 
freezing rain falling, firefighters quickly extin
guished the blaze, though authorities at the 
scene Sunday were still trying to determine 
how the fire began.
A young boy was found dead close to the 
body of a woman, and the bodies oftwo 
women were found in the hall on the third 
floor, Greenville County Coroner Parks Evans 
said. Two more people a man and a woman 
 were found dead in separate rooms on the 
third floor, he said.
All appeared to have been sleeping when 
the fire began, the coroner said. Their pocketbooks had not yet been inspected for identifi
cation.
Seven other people were transported to a 
burn center in Augusta, Ga., Greenville 
Memorial Hospital Spokeswoman Erika 
Spenille said. Evans said at least a dozen peo
ple were injured in the blaze.
Windows were broken out along the third 
and fourth floors of the motel, and broken 
glass lined the base of the building Sunday. 
There was some blood splattered on the porti
co at the front entrance to the inn.
Witnesses told WYFF-TV that people were 
trying to lower themselves from upper floors 
of the motel using bedsheets and others 
jumped from the windows.
Greenville County Sheriffs Shea 
Smith said the emergency call came in 
about 4:30 amDeputies arrived before 
firefighters and ran into the building to 
begin evacuating people, but they could
n't reach the third floor, he said.
Greenville, the home of Bob Jones 
University, is about 105 miles northwest 
of Columbia. On Thursday, the city is sched
uled to host a debate among the Democratic 
presidential candidates.
N.Y. officer kills man 
in housing project
NEW YORK (AP) A police officer on routine 
patrol killed a man at a public housing project 
early Saturday; the police commissioner said 
later that the shooting was not justified.
The 35-year-old Housing Authority officer, 
who was not identified, had never before fired 
a shot on duty in his 11-year career, 
Commissioner Raymond Kelly said.
The officer and his partner were 
patrolling the housing project when they 
encountered Timothy Stansbury Jr., 19, 
who was going up a stairway to the roof to 
cross to another building shortly before 1 
a.m., Kelly said.
The officer was standing 3 feet to 4 feet from 
Stansbury when he fired one round into the 
man's chest, the commissioner said.
At this point, based on the facts that we 
have gathered, there appears to be no justifica
tion for this shooting, Kelly said. This is a 
tragic incident that compels us to take an indepth look at our tactics and training, both for 
new and veteran officers.
The officer was placed on restricted duty and 
his gun and badge were taken away, authorities 
said. The second officer was placed on admin
istrative desk duty.
Stansburys family members said the young 
man had no criminal record and was well liked.
Theyre killing us like dogs out here, pure 
dogs! said Stansburys mother, Phyllis 
Clayburne, a police department crossing 
guard. Its not right and it needs to stop!
Police said the teenager had been at a party 
and crossed to another building to visit some
one else. He was coming through a doorway 
when the officer looked in and shot him, police 
said.
City Councilman Charles Barron, who repre
sents Brooklyn, said heads should roll over 
the shooting.
We need some justice, he said. The mayor 
and the police commissioner should send a sig
nal to the community that they will not tolerate 
such shootings.
PghWire
Washington County 
father charged
PITTSBURGH (AP)  A Washington 
County man tried to induce his 10- 
year-old stepson to kill his younger 
brother by playing a tape while the 
older boy slept that urged him to 
smother or strangle his sibling, police 
said.
David Winniewicz, 36, of Houston, 
was arrested yesterday in the wacky 
plot and jailed on criminal solicitation 
to commit homicide and other charges. 
His wife found a tape in a filing cabinet 
earlier this month and gave it to cops.
On the tape, Winniewicz urges the 
boy to smother his younger brother 
with a pillow or strangle him, said 
James Horvath, chief of police in 
Chartiers, about 15 miles southwest of 
Pittsburgh.
It sent chills down my spine, 
Horvath said.
Winniewicz admitted he made the 
tape and played it in October as the 
boy slept, Horvath said.
The boy told his mother he remem
bered hearing voices, authorities said.
Winniewicz was being held in the 
Washington County Jail on $50,000 
bond and could not be reached for 
comment. He did not have a listed 
home telephone number, and it was 
not immediately clear whether he had 
an attorney.
Drug ring 
sentences
PITTSBURGH (AP)  The ringleader 
of a heroin ring that funneled 22 
pounds of heroin into western 
Pennsylvania and reached into the 
Pittsburgh mayors office was sen
tenced to more than 15 years in prison 
Thursday.
Michael Good, 45, of Pittsburgh, was 
sentenced to 15 years, 10 months in 
prison for his October guilty plea to 
charges stemming from a 20-person 
heroin and cocaine ring federal prose
cutors said he ran out of Pittsburghs 
North Side until his arrest in February.
Also on Thursday, Courtney 
Washington, whom federal prosecu
tors said was a courier for the drug 
ring, pleaded guilty, and a supplier for 
the ring, Felipe Rivera, was sentenced 
to three years, one month in prison. 
Neither Washingtons attorneys, 
Joseph Yablonski and Fred Rabner, nor 
Riveras attorney, Stephen Begler, 
returned phone calls for comment. 
Federal drug enforcement agents 
began unraveling the ring in 
September 2002 when they made a 
series of undercover buys from Good, 
which allowed them to tap his cell 
phone.
Last January, the wiretaps tipped 
purchase in a suburban Pittsburgh 
hotel. At the hotel, authorities arrested 
Tennille Chaffin, the co-owner of a 
fledgling rap label authorities said was 
used to deliver drugs and launder drug 
money Rivera, 38, from New York City, 
and another supplier, Bolivar Calcano. 
Washington, 28, of Duquesne, arrived 
later and was also arrested.
Inside the room, drug enforcement 
agents said they found nearly two 
pounds of heroin and $20,000 in cash. 
Chaffin, 27, of North Fayette, and 
Calcano, 37, of the Bronx, have both 
pleaded guilty. Chaffin, co-owner of 
No Slippin Records, was sentenced to 
11 years, 8 months in prison, while 
Calcano received 4 years, 9 months in 
prison.
Good was arrested a month later and 
during a search of his car, federal 
agents said they found $273,000 and 
almost two pounds of heroin.
In addition, Goods sister, Chatiqua 
Good, 31, of Pittsburgh, an assistant in 
the Pittsburgh mayors office, pleaded 
guilty in September to helping her 
brother launder money by buying an 
apartment building for $70,000.
Handicapped 
protesters charged
PITTSBURGH (AP)  A disabled 
man who blocked a bus to protest a 
broken handicapped ramp vowed to 
appeal his conviction on obstructing 
traffic, even after a magistrate 
reduced his charges.
Donald Stancile, 53, was arrested 
January 7 after he used his wheelchair 
to block a Port Authority of Allegheny 
County bus. The driver of the bus did
n't manually lower the lift after it 
failed to drop automatically.
Pittsburgh magistrate Louis C. Coles 
dropped a disorderly conduct charge 
against Stancile and reduced a misde
meanor obstructing traffic charge to a 
summary offense. Coles issued no fine 
and sentenced Stancile to time served 
for the day he spent in jail after his 
protest.
Despite giving him the court systems 
least serious offense, Stancile said 
he would appeal.
I feel Im not guilty of any
thing, he said.
TX

---------------------------------------------------

"Bank of the Year' - Investment Dealer's Digest 2003
 2004 UBS. The key symbol and UBS are the registered and unregistered trademarks of the UBS Group of companies around the world. All rights reserved. In the US, securities  
underwriting, trading and brokerage activities, and M & A advisory activities are provided by UBS Securities LLC, a registered broker/dealer that is a wholly owned subsidiary of UBS 
AG, a member of the New York Stock Exchange and other principle exchanges, and a member of SIPC. : ;
investment0^ UD Bank
Diversity, one of our core values at UBS, is essential to our global success and that To apply for a position, please visit your career office
of our clients. To this end, we foster an innovative, flexible culture rooted in or our website:
respect, ensuring that all talented UBS employees have the opportunity to
thrive. As a result, we attract and retain open-minded, dedicated employees, yyyyyy libs COm/gradlJ3t6S 
each bringing a multitude of diverse perspectives to the firm. By embracing a 
diversity of cultures, skills and experiences, we create long-term value for our 
employees, clients and shareholders.
UBS Investment Bank is an equal opportunity employer committed to diversity 
in its workforce. (M/F/DA/)
The key to achieving growth and change is proactively recruiting the 
best and brightest people into an inspiring culture, providing the 
opportunity and the resources to succeed. Our firm is focused on 
education, but it will be up to you to turn that education into your 
own success story. At UBS Investment Bank, you will have the freedom 
to demonstrate your strength of character in an environment where 
achievement and reward are naturally connected.
Interviews will be held at your Career Service Office on:
Wednesday, February 11,2004 (Equities)
Thursday, February 12,2004 (Operations)
Wednesday, February 18,2004 (Information Technology)
UBS Investment Bank is a pre-eminent global financial services 
firm. Our business encompasses: Equities, Financial Control, Fixed 
Income, Rates and Currencies, Information Technology, Investment 
Banking and Operations.
We are accepting resumes from the Class of 2005. We welcome 
those interested in an internship to apply via your career office by:
Wednesday, January 28,2004 (Information Technology)

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  JANUARY 26, 2004
J.T. Trollman/Photo Editor
The new Zebra Lounge, pictured before openng today, offers a beverage stand to the right of the entrance. Through the door
way are tables, chairs, and lawnchairs decorated in black and white stripes.* ,  .. ' IZebra Lounge immediate success
Students recieve suit settlement
ZEBRA, from page A1
Zebra Lounge unique is that all of its 
contents are organic. The coffee 
beans, espressos, and teas all come 
from Green Mountain Roasters; the 
lounge also offers brownies, muffins, 
ajid scones.
; Ben Magallon, a junior in anthro
pology, currently spends 11-12 hours 
a-week at the lounge. Magallon men
tioned that the lounges busiest hours 
ae between classes, and that about 
everyone who has come in is happy 
that it is now in existence.
I There are already a lot of reguSENATE, from page Al
; Members are chosen through peti
tion, which are now available at the 
University Center information desk, 
and are due back to UC Box 46 on 
February 3. The Senate will vote on 
vacancies at a February 5 general body 
meeting.
When asked about how the quality of
PAT, from page Al
CMU and University of Pittsburgh 
can expect to see higher rates as well. 
At Schenley Plaza, McNulty said, 
the price was ten dollars a day, max. 
Now its twelve for an eight to twentyfour hour spot. At the Forbes-Semple 
Garage, a lease has gone from $115 
to $190. Thats a pretty substantial 
change.
Besides parking, students at CMU 
can also plan to see changes in the 
Police and Fire Bureaus. The expen
ditures that appear to account for a 
greater percentage of the citys rev
enues than in years past are ones on 
fire and police protection, said 
Klepper. Given the discussion local
ly, I would anticipate sharp reduc
tions will be made in the payments 
for fire protection.
Students have voiced concern 
before about security on campus due 
to earlier police cutbacks in 2003. 
CMU police chief Creig Doyle was 
unavailable for comment on the 
issue.
Another possible method of rev
enue increases is a commuter tax, 
which is far more controversial. 
The mayor and the city council 
want to obtain the authority from 
the general assembly to levy a new 
tax on people who work in the city 
but reside outside the city: com
muters, said Strauss. The general 
assembly is very reluctant to do this 
because the commuters are also 
their voters. A similar tax has been 
implemented in New York, where 
people commuting in from other 
states such as New Jersey or 
Connecticut have been considered 
for a New York tax.
As of yet there is no concrete plan 
for financial recovery. Strauss, how
ever, sees several options for the 
long-term.
In one sense the mayor and coun
cil could easily solve their financial 
problem by raising the real estate tax, 
and raising the tax on residents 
earned income, he said. In an 
August 2003 article in the Pittsburgh 
Tribune-Review titled Pittsburghs 
Pickle, he also called for more acces
sible financial reporting.
As for CMUs role in Pittsburghs
lars, said Piama Habibullah, an 
industrial design junior who is work
ing part-time at the lounge until she 
departs for a semester abroad. Its a 
fun job; Im meeting a lot of people 
here. More and more people are hear
ing about it.
Barnett, who hopes to eventually 
implement cold sandwiches and bot
tled water, mentioned that he has 
been receiving a lot of positive feed
back from the students.
Word has definitely spread, 
Barnett said, and business is grow
ing daily.
Though aspirations of expansion
the Senates performance could be 
affected by its population, Scocozzo 
said, We were prepared for such a 
turnover and as a result, we have a 
strong program called the member-atlarge program.... this allows for speak
ing rights and there are no limitations 
whatsoever.
Scocozzo and Gilman reassured that 
the Senate will not back down to the
financial issues: Organizationally, 
there are all sorts of people at the 
University who participate in the life 
of the city, Strauss stated. The 
mayor and president of city council 
are both trustees of the University. 
President Cohon, retired USX execuhave come to Prekops mind, he feels 
perfectly content with the current 
service provided. Furthermore, his 
ultimate goal of establishing a gath
ering place for students and faculty 
within CFA, from which its daily 
inhabitants no longer are required to 
leave to travel to the University 
Center for a coffee or a small snack, 
was achieved.
If we get enough interest and busi
ness, in the warm weather we will 
move to the outdoor patio, or into the 
lobby of CFA, Prekop said. Right 
now, we seem to have just enough 
room.
obstacles that arrive at the end of every 
semester when students reprioritize for 
the future.
The main cause that led the members 
to leave, say Scocozzo and Gilman, is 
purely the members own personal 
reprioritization. The Senate encourages 
students to help fill the vacancies and to 
contact them for any questions, com
ments, or problems.
tive David Roderick, Mellon Bank 
CEO Marty McGuinn: trustees of the 
University are involved in various 
committees that have been trying to 
find a new mix of taxes and fees to 
make sure the city has enough 
money.
ARRESTS, from page Al
Mark had a backpack and gog
gles, and was helping a friend get up 
when the police knocked him down 
and tore off his backpack, dislocat
ing his shoulder, said Glover. 
According to a September 30, 2002 
Tartan article, Mark Egerman was 
one of 21 CMU students arrested 
during the protest.
There is no question in my mind 
that the police violated the civil 
rights of the 600 protesters they 
arrested. It was a classic trap: the 
police surrounded the protesters, 
would not allow anyone to leave, 
and then arrested people for not 
leaving, said Egerman, a senior in 
computer science.
The arrestees were then placed on 
buses where they remained for more 
than eight hours, and were eventual
ly charged formally.
My strongest memory is of being 
arrested after being detained in 
Pershing Park. The time I spent 
handcuffed and later in jail are still 
vivid memories, said Egerman.
Assistant chief Peter Newsham 
was responsible for the decision to 
cordon off the park and arrest every
one inside it, which included people 
who were not protesters but had 
been in the park at the time. One 
guy I was arrested with was an 
extreme right-wing pro-Bush fanatic 
who was about to join the army, 
said Glover, and there were many 
other cases.
The three art students who filed 
the lawsuit were members of a 
photo-journalism class who had 
been recording the incident on a 
class assignment. The students were
VISAS, from page Al
finds some of their graduate stu
dents stuck across seas.
According to the Association of 
American Universities (AAU) survey 
of 40 universities, including Duke 
University and Stanford University, 
there was a 57 percent increase in 
the number of graduate students 
who experienced visa delays in fall 
2003.
Students that experience these 
visa delays are not spending an extra 
relaxing week at home. Some are 
missing out on an entire semester 
while waiting for their visa to come 
through.
Yiheng Li, a masters student in 
knowledge discovery and data min
ing, waited eight stressful months in 
China.
Li had set aside his unfinished 
research and decided to go back 
home to visit his family for winter 
break. He went to the U.S. embassy 
to reapply for a six-month student 
visa, but because he had forgotten 
some documents, he made a second 
trip.
I returned three days later and 
the guards wouldnt let me in 
because so many students were in 
the same situation, said Li. There 
was a line there and I had to wait for 
three hours and then they closed.
But once face-to-face with a con
sular official, Li was questioned 
about his studies abroad and the 
type of research he conducted. Li 
elaborated on his data privacy proj
ect; however, this elaboration 
seemed to have raised a sensitive 
field red flag.
The officials dont know what 
data privacy is. Its totally research 
and not military research, said Li. 
They got confused.
But even those with majors in 
areas that are remotely related to 
anything on the TAL get caught in 
the delay. Dan Li, a doctoral student 
in finance, had her visa delayed for 
reasons that she still cannot figure 
out.
Upon arriving home to China after 
being away for one year and a half, 
she submitted her documents and 
processing fee to a drop box service 
at a bank in Shanghai, China and 
went home. Dan Li didnt expect any 
problems.
I received a phone call from the 
bank and they said that my visa was 
rejected, she said. It was like a cri
sis. I instantly cried at home.
Fortunately, Dan Li had a contact 
at the U.S. Embassy and was able to 
schedule an interview to clear things 
up before the semester started.
They didnt ask too many ques
tions because its quite clear that I 
was just visiting, she said.
Others, like Obaidullah Khawaja, 
a masters student in information 
networking, didnt get to school in 
time for the fall semester or even for 
the second semester; he had to wait 
one year before departing for the 
U.S.
Khawaja had received admissions 
for fall 2002 but his security clear
ance took six months and did not 
come through until December. By 
then he had missed the first semes
ter of the school year.
I couldnt join the program 
halfway during spring semester so I 
had to wait a whole year, said 
Khawaja.
bystanders who had been permitted 
by the police to go into the park and 
take pictures, and were later pre
vented from leaving and arrested for 
failure to obey an officers orders. 
Another person arrested was a 
retired Army lieutenant colonel.
According to the Metropolitan 
Police Departments Mass 
Demonstration Handbook, at least
There is no ques
tion in my mind 
that the police vio
lated the civil 
rights of the 600 
protesters they 
arrested.
 Mark Egerman
two documented warnings (usually 
delivered through a bullhorn) must 
be made, and the option to leave 
prior to arrests must be given to pro
testers. According to Newsham in his 
official statement during the investi
gation, it had not been practical to 
give everyone a warning, and sever
al protesters had received warnings 
on the way to the park. The arrests 
were for disorderly conduct and fail
ure to obey officers orders prior to 
entering Pershing Park.
For all three students, the indefi
nite wait and lack of information 
was the most frustrating part.
I tried to contact the consulate 
three to four times by fax saying that 
my research is important and that 
the lab needs me, said Li. But the 
only reply I got was We are process
ing your case, andthey never told 
me the clear status of my case.
Kou Zhenzhen, a PhD student in 
computer and statistical learning, 
has been stuck in China for nearly a 
month now and understands his 
hands are tied in this situation.
What I can do is wait, he stated 
via e-mail. The embassy will notice 
me when the check is finished. But I 
can do nothing but wait. I can do 
nothing to speed up the process.
As well as not having a hand in the 
visa process, the stranded students 
can only do so much from afar. Their 
studies and researches are interrupt
ed and even graduation is post
poned.
I can do some research remotely, 
but not as effective as on campus, 
Zhenzhen said.
I felt completely lost without my 
school environment, said Yiheng Li. 
I couldnt do any research without
I received a phone 
call from the bank 
and they said that 
my visa was reject
ed. It was like a cri
sis. I instantly cried 
at home.
 Dan Li
intimate contact with my advisor or 
contact with students. Its not possi
ble from a remote place.
So with nothing to do, students 
have the time to weigh the pros and 
cons of studying in America. After 
six months of waiting, Khawaja had 
almost given up going abroad to 
CMU, but things pulled together and 
his visa was issued. However, 
Khawajas friend who had also been 
accepted to CMU and was waiting 
for his visa, decided to forgo 
America.
It was really frustrating and real
ly bad. My friend gave up on CMU 
and decided to go elsewhere. The 
[security clearance] process is bit of 
a turn off, said Khawaja.
Reactions like Khawajas friend 
are not unexpected and the 
University administration sees that 
the effects of delayed visas are not 
only an inconvenience to students 
but may be detrimental to the future 
of research universities across the 
nation.
Alik Widge, a PhD student in 
robotics and vice president of 
finance and external affairs for the 
Graduate Student Assembly (GSA), 
said that because this is a publicized 
problem, there are international stu
dents who are rethinking of not 
applying to CMU.
Besides the lawsuit filed on behalf 
of the three students mentioned ear
lier, another of the four lawsuits 
resulting from this incident is a 
class-action lawsuit filed on behalf 
of the estimated 400 people arrested 
by the police, including the CMU 
students involved in the protest. The 
class-action suit could result in up to 
four million dollars being awarded 
to the plaintiffs. According to 
Glover, this raises the problem of 
where the money would come from.
The District of Columbia is one of 
the poorest areas of the United 
States, and it is often overlooked 
because the people dont have repre
sentation, Glover said.
The people in D.C. didnt ask to 
be the center of action, and I dont 
feel that the people should pay for 
the mistakes of the police. Glover 
said that he would donate any award 
received to charity, and hopes that if 
the class-action lawsuit is successful, 
he will be able to convince several of 
the plaintiffs to donate their money 
to charities as well.
I will donate half of any settle
ments I receive to local charities in 
the District of Columbia, and the 
rest I plan to send to local Pittsburgh 
and international charities, includ
ing those in Iraq and Afghanistan. If 
we can coordinate our donations 
this way as an act of solidarity, it will 
generate more attention  not for 
ourselves, but for peace activism in 
general and for the causes for which 
we were protesting in the first 
place.
Egerman said he will donate any 
settlements he receives to the 
Thomas Merton Center, a Pittsburgh 
activist group.
Universities are losing good stu
dents to other countries such as 
Great Britain and Australia. We want 
smart people to come study here but 
they wont do that if coming to grad 
school here is a pain.
These international graduate stu
dents are crucial to any research uni
versity.
There is concern that if this prob
lem goes on it will chip away at 
where the brightest international 
students go, said Kreig. The aca
demic engine is driven a lot by grad
uate international students. Its a big 
deal.
However, graduate schools arent 
the only ones that will experience a 
decline in international students  
the job market would as well.
If the visa wasnt a problem., I 
would definitely prefer to work 
here, said Khawaja. But I dont 
plan on working here because I have 
to go through the process and you 
dont know how long itll take.
The AAU realizes the severity of 
this problem and has submitted sev
eral comments to the Department of 
State requesting that action be taken 
to expedite the visa process.
According to a letter submitted on 
September 5, 2003, the AAU 
requested that the government 
reconsider the implementation of 
visa interview policies, where nearly 
all foreign students and researchers 
are interviewed, until additional 
resources can be devoted to the con
sulates to handle their reinstitution.
There are no concrete propositions 
on the table, said Rob Reeder, a CS 
PhD candidate and president of the 
GSA. But there are a lot of possible 
solutions.
One solution requests that interna
tional students and scholars be exempt 
from security clearances if they have 
studied or researched in the U.S. for an 
extended time and with proper recom
mendations and documents.
Another plausible solution requests 
that the government extend the year
long waiver period where internation
al students would be able to exit and 
enter the U.S. without undergoing 
multiple security clearances.
However, it may be a while before 
any momentous action is taken by the 
government.
Barry Toiv, the AAU director of com
munications and public affairs, stated 
in an e-mail, Weve been in touch with 
the Departments of State and 
Homeland Security on this, which is 
really a continuation of the contacts 
weve had over time with them  
theyre aware of our concerns. But we 
have not heard back yet on lengthen
ing this waiver period.
Until these proposals are imple
mented, students will have to rely on 
their intuition when purchasing a 
plane ticket back home. But if gut 
instinct is not enough, there are also 
resources available that can keep stu
dents up to date. Krieg said that stu
dents should refer to the OIE website 
for further information about specifics 
on traveling abroad and the visa appli
cation process. Its an anxious situa
tion and students should talk individu
ally with department and academic 
advisors.
Although most students will be 
packing their bags and heading home 
after graduation this May, Yiheng Li 
will remain in Pittsburgh and not even 
attempt to leave the country in fear of 
the long and daunting visa process.
File Photo
Due to the lack of frequency with which PAT buses operate during the day, students 
are often forced to stand.
A
Student Senate missing members
City continues budget struggle
Visa troubles plague students

---------------------------------------------------

mon AUP

3896 Bigelow Boulevard  Oakland  Pittsburgh, PA 15213  (412) 621-2200  www.residenceinn.com/pitro
PRESENTED BY THE SANFORD N. ROBINSON MEMORIAL LECTURE SERIES - 2004 
|
J
Sill imm
THESANFO SRD.BIML
YOUR ADMISSION FEE WILL BE DONATED TO CHARITABLE CAUSES THAT SUPPORT ISRAEL AND 
\ JEWISH CAMPUS LIFE IN PITTSBURGH.
PRODUCED IN COOPERATION BY THE UNITED JEWISH FEDERATION & THE HILLEL JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER 
FOR MORE IbifO CONTACT THE HILLEL JEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER AT 412.621.8875.
All of our suites provide the comforts of home with Marriott's passion for making every guest fee! welcome.
174 Spacious Suites (with full kitchens) 24-Hour Message Center / Voice Mail
Three Meeting Rooms (over 2,000 sq. ft.) Indoor Pool and Whirlpool
Hot Breakfast Daily (including scrambled eggs and Belgian waffles) Fitness Center
Evening Social Hour (Mon.-Thurs.) Cable TV with Premium Channels
Daily Newspaper Pets Accepted
Shuttle Van Service (within 3-mile radius) Laundry Facilities on Each Floor
Secure Indoor Garage High Speed Internet
ASK ABOUT OUR CMU RATES!
Residence
THE TARTAN
Harnessing the
power of plaid...
...to deliver you 
quality news 
every 
Monday 
morning

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN2,6 January 2004
Apples upgraded software suite 
includes new GarageBand app
SciTechBiiefs
Sleep facilitates 
problem solving
to a web page. The slideshow feature 
has borrowed a few additional tran
sitions from Apple's Keynote presen
tation program. The only big new 
feature in this department is 
Rendezvous photo sharing, which 
works similarly to the music sharing 
in iTunes.
The new versions of iMovie and 
iDVD show marked performance 
increases, a welcome boost. Theyve 
always been good at doing computationally-intensive rendering on 
machines of limited speed, but inter
face responsiveness has been drasti
cally improved, making both pro
grams a joy to use.
Both include new stock assets, 
with additional titles and effects in 
iMovie and more themes in iDVD. 
iDVD also has several nice additions, 
including a menu map for large pro
jects and the ability to work on 
machines not equipped with Apples 
DVD-burning SuperDrive.
Perhaps the star of the show, 
though, is GarageBand. Apples new 
foray into musicmaking is incredibly 
intuitive and easy-to-use, turning 
anybody with an ear for sound into a 
music producer with more creative 
power than most of the record com
panies had at one point.
GarageBand supports audio and 
MIDI recording, loops, and a few
new features for the new version. 
Now at version 4  yes, they 
skipped version 3  the storage, 
archiving, and basic editing software 
is packed with several compelling 
options. Jobs noted that when intro
ducing the product Apple engineers 
had originally figured that the aver
age consumer might take and store 
several hundred photos.
The prediction turned out to be 
wrong; after major advances in digi
tal camera quality and resolutions, 
many users are now storing thou
sands of photos. iPhoto 4 is opti
mized to display at least 25,000 pho
tos without significant performance 
degradation, and my testing seems 
to back this up: with my collection of 
about 1,400 photos, the old version 
was a major pain to use, while the 
new one is as fast as can be. Granted, 
the interface is not entirely seamless, 
but its pretty close.
iPhotos set of photo-retouching 
tools is largely the same as before, 
with color adjustment, an airbrush, 
a very nice cropping tool. The red
eye reduction is still more conve
nient and produces better results 
than doing the same thing in 
Photoshop. A new Sepia option com
plements the Black and White con
version nicely.
Similarly, the sharing options are 
much the same: the user can order 
prints and books and publish photos
by Jim Puls
Managing EditorA new study shows that sleep 
can actually help people solve 
difficult problems. Ullrich 
Wagner of the University of 
Lubeck in Germany and his co
researchers gave test subjects a 
math problem that involved a 
group of eight numbers and two 
rules about how to create anoth
er group. The problems had a 
shortcut solution that the 
researchers did not tell the sub
jects.
After the rules were 
explained, half of the partici
pants were allowed to sleep, and 
another half were kept awake. 
Eight hours later, the subjects 
who slept were twice as likely to 
solve the problem using the 
shortcut. A second group of sub
jects completed the same experi
ment at a different time of day, 
so researchers believe that 
fatigue was not a factor.
Researchers were unable to 
figure out the type of sleep nec
essary.
If any one suite of software could 
be classified as ubiquitous in todays 
computing world, it would undoubt
edly be Microsoft Office. Despite 
several shortcomings, millions of 
users fire up Word, Excel, 
PowerPoint, and  depending on 
your platform  Outlook or 
Entourage every day.
At MacWorld San Francisco three 
weeks ago, Apple CEO Steve Jobs 
unveiled something positioned as 
Microsoft Office for the rest of your 
life, iLife 04. Containing the latest 
Mac version of iTunes, upgraded ver
sions of iPhoto, iMovie, and iDVD, 
and a new app, GarageBand, iLife 
04 is an impressive collection of pro
grams that are way more exciting 
than a word processor and a spread
sheet.
iTunes is probably the most wellknown application of the bunch: not 
only is it the jukebox software used 
by nearly every Mac user, but the 
Windows version also has seen great 
rises in popularity. For more infor
mation on iTunes, take a look at the 
November 10, 2003 issue of The 
Tartan.
iPhoto, Apples superior digital 
photo shoebox, has seen great 
advances in usability and a bunch of
Courtesy of Jeffrey Peterson
Research assistants help set up the antenna sensor in Urumuqi, Xin-jiang A.I. 
province, China. The sensor can see stars from their dark energy signatures.
Sensor antenna array sees 
images of prehistoric stars
 stars 100 times more massive than 
the sun  which then exploded. Ours 
will be the first telescope able to 
study these stars.
Ratnatunga also studies stars and 
the formation of galaxies; however, 
his work with the Hubble space tele
scope has been focused on finding 
and observing gravitational lenses.
Gravitational lensing is a very 
rare effect that occurs when an 
extremely bright star is behind a 
galaxy. The light that comes from the 
star is bent by gravity, and the result 
is that when astronomers look at the 
region, they typically see a pair of 
mirage-like galaxies, though the 
shape and number of the mirage 
images clepends on the placement of 
the star.
The first gravitational lens was 
found in 1979, almost 40 years after 
Einstein predicted its existence ... 
what we need now is a much larger 
sample of gravitational lenses before 
we can study them very well, so that 
is what I am doing right now - 
advancing the survey, said 
Ratnatunga. So far, the survey has 
found ten good candidates for gravi
tational lenses by using the Hubble 
Space Telescope, which can view 
galaxies much further away than any 
current ground-based telescope. 
However, since NASA decided on 
January 16 not to fund future mainte
nance repairs required for the Hubble 
telescope to function, the amount of 
time the survey has to make use of 
the Hubble telescope is short.
According to an article on the sur
vey published in the May 1999 issue 
of The Astronomical Journal, one of 
the major uses of lens systems is that 
in the future they might assist in
by James Tetlow
Staffwriter
What can you do with ten thou
sand cheap Chinese TV antennae? 
Associate professor Jeffrey Peterson 
has the answer: use them to build a 
ten kilometer wide antenna to study 
stars from up to 100 million years 
after the Big Bang, ten times further 
than the Hubble Space Telescope. 
1 Meanwhile, the Hubble telescope is 
I being used by associate research pro! fessor Kevan Ratnatunga to search 
for gravitational lenses, and 
Professor Richard E. Griffiths has just 
begun a technical study to demon
strate the feasibility of a project he 
has designed which will use X-rays to 
study dark matter and dark energy.
Using TV wavelengths, the tele
scope will be able to see about ten 
times closer to the start of the Big 
Bang than we can with the Hubble 
{space telescope], said Peterson.
Peterson is working in conjunction 
with Beijing Observatory to build the 
primeval Structure Telescope 
(PAST). It will take us about two 
years to build, and I will be in China 
again during spring break, looking at 
possible sites, said Peterson. By that 
time we should have about 32 of the 
IQ,000 antennas hooked up ... were 
using TV antennas because theyre 
cheap, made by the millions in China, 
arid work quite well. The site will be 
ini Western China, because the tele
scope has to be far from other televi
sions to work without interference.
Were going to be studying the 
very first stars that were formed after 
the Big Bang, Peterson said. The 
first generation of stars was very dif
ferent than the stars that exist today. 
There were a lot of very heavy stars
Source: Scientific American
Eurekster helps 
friends searchSee iLIFE, page A7
Your friends could soon unwit
tingly help you find good search 
results online, thanks to a new 
service on the Internet.
The service, Eurekster, tracks 
the pages that users visit, mark
ing a page useful if a user 
spends at least a minute at it. 
Then, other people on the users 
friends list will have a higher 
chance of seeing the page in 
their search results.
The name of the service is a 
play on the recent Internet fad 
Friendster, which connects peo
ple to others near them.
The company plans to let users 
see their friends exact searches 
in the future, though no identifi
able material will be shared. Its 
a way of finding out information 
your friends might not otherwise 
have told you, said Eurekster 
president Shaun Ryan.
InsMlMtiM
Straightforward installation; inclusion of both 
CD and DVD can be confusing; users without 
DVD-ROM drives cant install full suite.
Interfaces are as intuitive as you'll ever find, 
but whats the deal with that god-awful 
black-and-wood scheme in GarageBand?
Output Quality___________
Windows users cant get this kind of 
functionality from anything at any price.
GarageBand itself is worth three times the 
price; non-musicians wont want to pay for 
applications that used to be free.
OverallSource: TechNews
Mars ice found 
by Euro satellite
See ANTENNAE, page A7
The European satellite Mars 
Express discovered ice at Mars 
south pole, according to its mis
sion commanders. Mars Express 
discovered both water ice and 
dry ice, or frozen carbon dioxide, 
at the planets north pole in 
2002.
Scientists are interested in the 
presence of water ice on the 
planet because it could mean 
that life once existed on the plan
ets surface.
Water vapor has been found in 
the planets atmosphere as well. 
The discovery came as NASA 
landed its second rover, 
Opportunity, on the red planet.
Enhanced bio-chip technology helps CMU 
researchers study cells with more precisionHow Things Work 
Hypothermia
Each chip consists of an array of 
hundreds of cell-sized sensors whose 
surfaces are as conducive to cell 
growth as a culture dish. These sen
sors are activated by built-in semi
conductor switches that operate at 
such a high speed that the sensor 
data refreshes within a second to pro
vide a continually updated picture of 
the status of the array. Domach 
claims that these particular biochips 
are more effective than similar chips 
because of their sensors smaller size.
When a cell touches a sensor, it will 
trigger electrical changes by effec
tively blocking the current in the sen
sor due to the difference between the 
electrical properties of the cell and 
that of the environment.
Moreover, the more tightly the 
cells grip the sensor, the more they 
block the current within the sensor. 
This means that each type of cell will 
cause the sensor to produce a unique 
signal. The importance of being able 
to observe this is that adhesive prop
erties of a cell can tell researchers 
about its normal function, including 
cancer cell migration. So far, the 
chips have detected cancer cells in 
humans and mouse cells.
Due Nguyen, a masters student in 
chemical engineering, and Xiaoqiu 
Huang, a fourth-year doctoral stu
dent in ECE, also participated in the 
project.
Two papers written on the chip 
have been accepted by the IEEE 
Sensors Conference, which was held 
in Toronto, Canada, in October 2003, 
and will be published in Proceedings 
of the IEEE Sensors Conference. One 
of the papers will also be published in 
Biotechnology and Bioengineering 
magazine.
The especially small size of the 
sensing sites, which is smaller than 
most commercially available micro
array chips, allows researchers to fit 
more of them on each chip, thus rais
ing the efficiency of the chip by pro
viding a time-gap-free picture of 
cell locomotion trails, speeds and 
production. This technology elimi
nates the need to repeat experiments 
in order to produce such a picture.
The micro-array chip is expected to 
be highly useful in tracking cell 
motion, screening the effect of drugs 
that slow the cell mutation. It could 
also be incorporated with already
Warning signs include gray, white, 
or yellow skin discoloration, numb
ness, and waxyor firm-feeling 
skin. Apply warm, moist compress
es to the affected body part. Dont 
rub the tissue; the ice crystals can 
tear the cells.
Most of your body heat is lost 
through your head, so wear a hat, 
preferably one that covers your 
ears. Mittens conserve more 
warmth than gloves. Warm your 
core body temperature with fluids 
like hot cider or soup. Forget Atkins
 foods high in carbohydrates and 
protein will give you the most ener
gy. Besides, fat people have an 
advantage in cold because of their 
extra insulation. Avoid alcohol, caf
feine, and nicotine (sorry). Alcohol 
makes warm blood flow toward the 
surface of the skin, where it will 
give heat off to surrounding air, 
decreasing core body temperature.
Its all the more dangerous 
because although youre actually 
getting colder, you feel warmer. 
Caffeine and nicotine do the oppo
site: they speed blood vessels con
striction, making extremities even 
colder.
Caffeine and alcohol also dehy
drate you, which makes it harder 
for your body to regulate its tem
perature. When core body temper
ature decreases significantly, 
hypothermia results. Symptoms 
include confusion, dizziness, 
exhaustion, and severe shivering. If 
you find someone suffering from 
hypothermia, warm him and seek 
medical attention.
Ironically, one thing you dont 
have to worry about is catching 
cold  cold weather itself wont 
make you sick. However, staying 
inside with other people trying to 
stay warm certainly can.
by Rebecca Lee
Junior Staffwriter
As the wind pelts your face and 
the cold seeps into your bones, 
your fingers tingle and go numb. 
The exasperating process that 
leads to hypothermia has begun. 
You start to shiver and your teeth 
chatter. All this happens because 
your body is trying to keep itself 
warm.
Your extremities get cold first 
because theyre just not as impor
tant to your survival as your inter
nal organs, such as your heart and 
brain. Blood vessels constrict, caus
ing the blood to pool internally to 
conserve organ heat. The hypothal
amus regulates the core tempera
ture of your body. Good old 98.6 
degrees Fahrenheit is the optimal 
temperature for the metabolic 
processes that provide energy to all 
your cells, so your hypothalamus 
wants to keep you warm. 
Shivering, another automatic 
response, warms you by increasing 
muscular activity.
Wind makes you colder because 
it increases evaporation from your 
skin. If you are wet, either from per
spiration or precipitation, that 
moisture will evaporate and take 
heat with it  so stay dry. Limit 
skin exposure. When skin is 
exposed to cold repeatedly, dam
aged capillary beds called chilblains 
can occur. The tissue can become 
red and itchy, and the damage is 
permanent: the chilblains will recur 
when the skin is re-exposed to cold.
Frostbite happens when exposed 
tissue freezes: the cellular fluid 
actually forms ice crystals. Fingers, 
toes, earlobes, cheeks and nose 
have the greatest exposure to cold 
and are most likely to be affected.
Michael Domach, a professor in 
chemical engineering, and David 
Greve, a professor in ECE, have devel
oped a highly efficient biochip that 
detects the presence of certain cells. 
The project, which received funding 
from the National Science 
Foundation in 2000, uses the newly 
emerging technology of micro-arrays 
to detect the cells at a faster rate than 
ever before.Oldest non-sea 
fossil unearthed
Fossil hunter Mike Newman 
recently discovered the oldest 
fossil of a land animal in 
Scotland.
The centimeter-long millipede 
lived 428 million years ago. All 
older animal fossils discovered 
so far are of animals that lived in 
the sea. Scientists named the 
new fossil Pneumodesmus newmani in Newmans honor.
According to Newman,
Scotland has the best palaeo
zoic  pre-triassic, pre-dinosaur
 sites in the world. The previ
ous record holder came from a 
nearby area, but lived approxi
mately 20 million years after the 
millipede.
Source: BBC
Compiled by: 
Kevin ChangCourtesy of Michael Domach
This is data from a study that involves bio chip technology in conjunction with 
microscope observations.See BIOCHIPS, page A7

---------------------------------------------------

JJJJJJJ
THE TARTAN  JANUARY 26, 2004 A7
Courtesy of Jeffrey Peterson
The array set up in a field in Pelingha, Qinghai province, China. It can sense dark matter in the universe.
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 3RD, 2004 
6:00 PM - 8:00 PM
UNIVERSITY CENTER-RANGOS HALL
Join us for the second annual forum to talk with alumni and 
employers to discuss carreer paths and opportunities
/ ; , -i Allegheny County Department of Health
American HealCare Group, Inc.
Cendant Corporation - Hotel Division
College Prowler
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania-State Civil Service Commission
Corrazon Consulting 
Coro Center for Civic Leadership 
FBI 
Highmark
IREX (International Research & Exchanges Board)
KeysiWork 
Lucas Systems, Inc.
Mellon Financial Corporation 
New York City Department of Information Technology and Telecommunications
Pittsburgh Technology Council 
Pressley Ridge 
Siegel & Gale 
Summerbridge Pittsburgh 
Technology Publishing Company 
The Bradley Center 
The Carriage House Children's Center 
The Regional Internship Center of Southwestern PA
Sponsored by the H&SS Deans Office and the Carnegie Mellon Career Center 
http://www.hss.com.edu/pds
New array of antennae helpsChips gather data on cells
iLife 04 introduces GarageBand
Domach.
The almost limitless number of 
applications for micro-array chip 
technology bestows power in the 
hands of both small companies and 
large companies alike and creates 
huge market potential.
The rapidly expanding market for 
micro-array technologies could sur
pass the $5 billion market by the end 
of the decade, according to a study 
released from Kalorama Information. 
Furthermore, some segments within 
the analytic chip market will experi
ence growth in excess of 70% in the 
coming years. The study, U.S. 
Markets in Analytical Chip 
Technology, predicts that advanced 
chip technologies will find broad 
applications across the spectrum of 
life sciences research and clinical 
practice in coming decades. However, 
it is micro-array technologies and 
their use in drug discovery and devel
opment that represent the market 
opportunity in the immediate 
future, reported the February 2003 
issue of PR Newswire.
BIOCHIPS, from page A6
existing technologies to increase the 
power of those technologies.
Our intention in developing the 
chips is to create a versatile tool for 
biomedical researchers. While the 
modern tools to study mammalian 
cells exploit the use of optical devices 
such as microscopes, our chips utilize 
electronic devices. However, they can 
either be used as individual instru
ments or in conjunction with micro
scopes, said Nguyen.
The direction in which lab-on-achip technology evolves will proba
bly take one of these two potential 
avenues: one is that chip-based bio
labs could replace current techniciandriven lab procedures; the other is 
that these chips could allow techni
cians and scientists to make more 
efficient use of their time by quickly 
weeding out poor drug candidates so 
that they can focus on higher-probability candidates instead. Another 
interesting possibility is that the play
ing field for small companies could be
number of researchers and techni
cians they have. The result would be 
that a small startup could more 
quickly develop its own niche and 
compete with a bigger company, said
researchers see ancient stars
leveled, since lab chips and automa
tion would effectively increase the
iLIFE, from page A6
software effects, all integrated well 
enough that the difference is virtual
ly seamless.
Recording works through Mac OS 
Xs already stellar audio foundation, 
so anything that can get sound in or 
out of the machine will work with 
GarageBand. I didnt have any luck 
with the MIDI interface I tried, an old 
MOTU Midi Express, but its so 
ancient that I have doubts about its 
working with anything at this point.
Perhaps one of the neatest fea
tures of GarageBand is that it does all 
of its software audio synthesis inter
nally and makes the process invisible. 
MIDI and audio loops are both stored
The Tartans weekly tech support col 
is returning! Send your questions ii 
and watch for Ask Jim in 
Science & Technology
Courtesy of Michael Domach
A snapshot of cell structures from a 
study involving bio-chip array tech.
in Apples proprietary loop format, 
tagged with key and tempo informa
tion, and transposed on the fly.
The net effect is that when a user 
starts creating a song in, say, the key 
of E-flat at a tempo of 144 beats per 
minute, any loop he adds will auto
matically be changed to the key of Eflat at 144 beats per minute. It's real
ly slick, and can make anybody sound 
like a decent musician.
The level of integration between 
the five apps is impressive, to boot: 
iPhoto slideshows can use any iTunes 
playlist as background music. iMovie 
can incorporate pictures from iPhoto 
using the Ken Burns effect and 
bring in background music from 
iTunes. GarageBand exports cre
ations directly to a playlist in iTunes.
All in all, the new versions of 
iPhoto, iMovie, and iDVD represent a 
very pleasant - though far from 
earthshaking - upgrade. As iPhoto 
and iMovie were previously free 
applications, users would be justified 
to balk at the upgrade price if the 
suite were only composed of those 
upgrades. Adding GarageBand to the 
mix, however, makes it all worth
while: that app alone is worth the 
entire price of the set.
With all five apps included, and 
significantly updated versions of four 
of them to boot, this new package is a 
must have. Considering that the price 
for students is only $30 (and other
wise just $50), its a steal.
ANTENNAE, from page A6
understanding the distribution of 
dark matter in the universe. Griffiths 
came to CMU in 1996 to join the lens 
system survey; however, he now 
focuses on using x-rays to study dark 
matter and dark energy in the uni
verse.
Griffiths recently began a techni
cal study to show an engineering 
design firm that the project he is 
planning can be built within a $120 
million budget.
The key to this whole thing is 
low-risk. We will have to show NASA 
that we can build [the satellite] on 
time with a very low risk of over
spending the budget, said Griffiths. 
The project, titled DUO (Dark 
Universe Observatory), is a small 
satellite, which will be equipped 
with telescopes designed to measure 
dark energy through x-rays.
that there exists ten times as much 
dark matter in the universe as nor
mal matter, and two-thirds of the 
energy in the known universe is dark 
energy.
Of the one-third of energy that is 
not dark energy, most of it is com
posed of dark matter.
Everything in our visible universe 
is only three and one-half percent of 
what actually exists, said Griffiths. 
The major quest comes from trying 
to find out about dark energy and 
dark matter. We know dark energy is 
anti-gravity, that it is what makes 
the universe fly apart. Its amazing, 
but we have no clue why it is. Its the 
biggest problem in astrophysics - in 
physics  possibly the biggest 
unsolved problem there is, he said.
When most of the universe is dark 
energy and we dont understand it, 
then we have a big problem, he 
said.
DUO is one of five candidate pro
grams NASAs Explorer program. 
Next summer, NASA will choose two
The telescope will be 
able to see about ten 
times closer to the start 
of the Big Bang than 
we can with the 
Hubble
V Jeffrey Peterson
of the five candidate programs to 
receive funding.
Griffiths and other astronomers 
studying dark matter have found

---------------------------------------------------

Forum
26 January 2OO4THE TARTANPage A8
Intrepid ISPs have the guts 
to stand aeainst the RIAA
'Cary Sherman and Mitch Bainwol are at it 
again! On January 21, the RIAA announced 
that it would be suing 532 additional comput
er users to push the total number of lawsuit 
targets over the one thousand mark. 
Apparently the first wave, including 12-yearold girls and elderly grandmothers, wasn't 
enough to prove that the RIAA is willing to 
rekort to completely absurd methods; they 
have to relentlessly go after anybody who 
would even go so far as to load Kazaa on his or 
her machine.
This time, however, theres a twist: instead 
of. going after users themselves, this action is 
against 532 John Doe targets. Since the ISPs 
involved have finally decided to stand up to 
the pressure and not blindly release informa
tion, Bainwol, Sherman, and their cronies 
have nothing but IP addresses to sue. The need 
for these John Doe suits stems from an 
appeals court ruling that the DMCA cant be 
usted to automatically subpoena Internet users 
identities.
According to Bainwol, the RIAA chairman, 
The debate isnt digital versus plastic... [its] 
legitimate versus illegitimate. He might be 
missing the point, though: today, the debate 
seems to be more centered around the inter
ests of large capitalist business monopolies 
versus those of the common consumer.
*ln whats supposed be a major shocker, 
Pepsi is running a commercial during next 
weeks Super Bowl featuring several previous 
teenaged RIAA targets. The teens talk about 
their own rebellion: theyre still going to 
download music for free off the Internet, 
expept this time, the promotion is 100 million 
free songs from Apples iTunes Music Store.
Certainly, if the RIAA was effectively com
batting music piracy by portraying it a truly 
undesirable crime, the problem would just disappear. And while its true that the popularity 
of'the P2P download services has dropped a 
bit* ,the RIAA has only managed to aggravate 
modern America by showing just how little 
pl^s it really has.
Of course, one has to wonder at some point 
what the whole point is: the manner in which 
th RIAA is settling these lawsuits is effective
ly doing nothing. While youll continue to see
release after release with soundbytes from 
Sherman and Bainwol (who, after jointly 
replacing Hilary Rosen at the helm, must both 
always be quoted in press materials) declaring 
victory over swappers, the situation will only 
grow more absurd.
Since the average settlement from an RIAA 
suit is around $3000  not enough to plunge 
someone into financial ruin, but plenty to roy
ally piss them off  the industrys total take on 
these suits is in the three-quarters of a million 
dollar range. Compare this to the tens of mil
lions that the industry claims to have lost, and 
it looks more and more like theyre only blow
ing smoke.
A random statistic that people like to quote 
and abuse in relation to this story suggests that 
the average traffic on the FastTrack network 
used by Kazaa and others jumped by more 
than 20 percent during the year 2003, but this 
could mean anything. The RIAA will use it to 
say that they must press forward with their 
lawsuits, and the anti-RIAA people will say 
that the RIAA lawsuits dont work; quite hon
estly, the only fact it proves is that music is in 
demand.
Perhaps some day, the RIAA will realize that 
the reason Americans are pirating music is not 
because theyre dirty criminals who wont pay 
money. Its because the industry is only look
ing to push some soulless cookie-cutter detri
tus across as music and make people listen to 
it.
Once the RIAA stops using ClearChannel as 
a system of drones to force the general populus 
to listen to whatever their chosen Billboard 
Top 40 songs are, people may once again have 
an interest in supporting their favorite artists 
and buying music.
All of the pay-for-download services are a 
good start, allowing people to discover and 
support new artists like never before. They 
surpass even the pirate networks for ease of 
discovery and use. Their wild success should 
only serve to show that consumers are looking 
for choice; as soon as the music industry sees 
this, it wont have to treat people like crimi
nals.
Maybe itll make a few friends in the 
process.
PennDOTs duckies wont help 
keep state tranportation afloat
^1?With commonwealth budget shortfalls and 
what little money exists being siphoned away 
for, healthcare, public transit, library renova
tions, and recreation facilities, its nice to see 
that PennDOT has found the ultimate use for 
their share of Pennsylvanias revenue: rubber 
duckies  500 of them, in fact.
In a recent announcement by state Auditor 
General Robert Casey, Jr., the state will further 
investigate wasteful spending by one of 
Pennsylvanias largest departments. PennDOT 
is accused of using over $700,000 during 
2t)01-02 on employee recognition programs, 
unnecessary benefits, and one $500 pair of 
ceremonial scissors. The employee recognition 
program allocated over 90 percent of the offi
cially spent money for 250 events aimed at 
increasing employee morale over fiscal year 
2001. The remainder was spent on sundry 
PejinDOT merchandise, including customdesigned candies and 500 rubber ducks 
imprinted with the PennDOT logo.
I This is not to say that PennDOT employees 
; are not deserving of praise. Many are hard
working individuals helping Pennsylvanias 
historically poor roads and rails to be among 
. the most improved in the country. Some 
employees, however  mostly PennDOT brass 
;  felt it necessary to take their rewards into 
their own hands. PennDOT distributed over a 
thousand purchasing credit cards to 600 
!; employees. Those 600 employees misappro| priated their money for premium cable ser
vices, prescription drugs, personal office sup3 plies, and, in one case, concealed the purchase
of over $1000 in amusement ride tickets.
In the wake of this disclosure and on the rec
ommendation of Casey and others, Governor 
Ed Rendell placed a moratorium on all execu
tive department recognition programs beyond 
paper certificates and a pat on the back. A 
comprehensive look into new purchasing 
guidelines and closer tracking of state employ
ee spending is pending, but it is likely that 
these employees who have already abused the 
states  nay  our money will get off with 
nothing but a warning. Casey and Secretary of 
Transportation Allen Biehler continued to 
monitor the situation, but only one of the 
employees had actually been referred to the 
attorney general after she admitted to retail 
theft in addition to misuse of her two DOTissued cards.
Casey now hands the remainder of the cases 
over to the office of the attorney general, and 
each of the offenders will face potential termi
nation or even prison sentences. Occasionally, 
each of us is guilty of stealing an occasional 
pen, pad of Post-it brand sticky notes, or 
other minor office supply for our personal use; 
some of us feel remorse even for that. These 
employees actions are shameful since they 
steal not from a company coffer, but from the 
pockets of millions of Pennsylvanians. The 
state needs to make an example of these 600 
employees by removing them or at least 
requiring they repay what they took; other
wise, theft from law-abiding and tax-paying 
citizens of Pennsylvania may become the norm 
among workers in Harrisburg.
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellon s Student Newspaper Since 1906
EDITORIAL BOARD
ALEX MESEGUER 
Editor-in-Chief
JIM PULS, Managing Editor 
J.T. TROLLMAN, Photo Editor 
J.F.P. AUWAERTER, Copy Manager 
CELANIE POLANICK, Contributing Editor
EDITORIAL STAFF
ADAM GREENBERG, Forum Editor 
JEFF CULLERS, Contributing Editor 
BARY DUNN, News Editor
DAN CEPPOS, Sports Editor 
MICHELLE M. BOVA, Pillbox Co-Editor 
EVAN SUNDWICK, Pillbox Co-Editor 
KEVIN CHANG, Sci. & Tech. Editor 
ELI POUSSON, Comics Editor 
ANN ALISA SCHAEFER, Dossier Editor 
BRIDGET LEWIS, Art Editor 
SAAGAR PATEL, Online Editor 
REKHA NAIR, Advertising Manager 
FRANKLIN WILLIAMS, Production Manager 
LUCAS YIANNATJI, Personnel Manager 
RUYA BARAZ, Darkroom Manager
CHRISTINA KUNG, Asst. News Editor 
JONATHAN MENDELSON, Asst. Forum Editor 
MEG RICHARDS, Asst. Production Manager
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
John Davin, Karen Hoffmann, Neal R. Shyam
Vanessa Shyu/Art Staff
Apple falling farther from the tree
Jim Puls
Two days ago, Mac nerds everywhere cel
ebrated the twentieth birthday of the 
Macintosh. Shortly after airing an ad during 
the 1984 Super Bowl that completely stole 
the show, Apple introduced the Macintosh, 
a revolutionary machine billed as the com
puter for the rest of us.
It was ground-breaking: the first con
sumer machine with a windowed graphical 
user interface that didnt require users to 
type in a series of commands at a text 
prompt. It included a mouse, something so 
alien to people that early Macintosh ads 
were completely devoted to showing the 
masses how it worked.
On top of all of that, the machine was 
available at an unheard-of price: $2495.
Through the years, Apple has made waves 
with many more products. May 1998s iMac 
shocked the world by showing how easily 
the average person could get on the 
Internet. October 1999s PowerMac G4 had 
computing power that blew away Intelbased machines of the day.
Perhaps the biggest wave of them all, 
though, came on October 23, 2001, with the 
introduction of the iPod. While it didnt 
seem revolutionary at the time  Slashdots 
coverage of the story included an editorial 
commentary of No wireless. Less space 
than a Nomad. Lame  the device quickly 
caught on. So quickly, in fact, that before 
they knew it, Apple had garnered a near 
monopoly on hard-drive-based players and 
a plurality of the market for all computerbased music players.
Since then, Apple fans have been turning 
to the Steve Jobs keynotes at MacWorld 
expos for major new and exciting releases, 
and recent ones have been no disappoint
ment. January 2002 brought the Digital 
Hub and iPhoto. July 2002 brought 
Windows iPods, the 17-inch iMac, iTunes 3, 
Mac OS X 10.2 Jaguar, and several new 
software applications. January 2003 saw 
the 12- and 17-inch PowerBooks, the Safari 
web browser, and the iLife suite.
After July 2003s expo was cut back and 
the keynote cancelled, everybody looked 
towards the January 2004 expo for big new 
breakthroughs. Apple responded by intro
ducing the iPod mini, a smaller cousin to the 
world leader, and a new application to 
round the next version of the iLife suite.
Perhaps the highlight of the entire 
keynote was when Jobs brought recording 
artist John Mayer on stage to demo the new 
product, GarageBand. It was truly exciting 
and all, but the performance got to a point 
where it kept dragging on for minute after 
boring minute with viewers wondering 
what was coming next.
Aside from an architecture bump in the 
companys enterprise server line  an 
announcement that was mainly brushed 
aside  the entire keynote was focused on 
music. Steve discussed the iPod and its mar
ket dominance, the new iPod mini, the new 
GarageBand application, the upcoming pro
motion in conjunction with Pepsi, the new 
ability of AOL users to charge songs to their 
AOL account, and not much else; not a sin
gle ground-breaking, high tech announce
ment. Nothing but music.
Dont get me wrong: everything Apple has 
done in the music scene is truly revolution
ary, and the iPod probably owes most of its 
success to an amazing amount of hardware 
and software engineering. But Apple has 
seen itself transformed from a computer 
innovation company into a consumer music 
vendor.
A week ago, an important Apple veep told 
Reuters that, For [Apple], all of a sudden, 
music is the No. 1 priority. Steve Jobs man
aged to spend an entire Newsweek interview
last October talking about nothing but the 
iPod; granted, it was a short interview that 
took place around the introduction of 
iTunes for Windows, but Steve has been 
known to sway entire feature articles to 
whatever is on his mind at the point. One 
soundbite he laid down was a hope that 
Apple can be the Amazon or eBay of down
loaded music.
Make no mistake. The Apple that showed 
everybody why 1984 wouldnt be like 1984 
is not the same Apple that sells one-dollar 
songs to people using $300 computers. The 
company has changed over the last twenty 
years: theyre no longer trying to figure out 
what is the next big thing, theyre just trying 
to make todays consumer happy now.
Dont get me wrong, either; I love the 
iTunes Music Store, and my credit card can 
prove it. My iPod is a savior from boredom 
when Im traveling alone. GarageBand is 
one of the coolest applications Ive used 
since I got my own computer.
The sad truth is this, though: Apple is see
ing the result of one lucky success and jump
ing on it, blinded by a market share thats 
larger than their customary 3 percent. Apple 
realizes that they were the first company to 
do Internet music right; theyre not letting 
this one go and rightfully so. If Apple'is 
able to dominate a market, more power to 
them.
The question remains, however, of what 
else all of the smart people in Cupertino 
could come up with if they were given 
another market. What could the next big 
thing be? If Apple continues their competi
tion with FYE and-Sam Goody rather than 
following their true calling, we may never 
know.
Jim Pub (jpuls@) is The Tartans Managing 
Editor and its preeminent Apple whore. He 
accepts all responsible replies, so long as you 
dont use Microsoft products to write them.
Expanding Congress worth examining
J.F.P. Auwaerter
The influence of big money lobbyists 
brings about legislation that helps corpora
tions at the expense of the American people. 
The populace feels more and more that their 
votes matter less and less. Congress no 
longer has to respond to voters concerns 
with an incumbent re-election rate of 
around 90 percent. These problems can be 
mitigated by one simple piece of legislation
 increase the size of the House of 
Representatives.
The House began in 1787 with 65 mem
bers as prescribed in Article I of the U.S. 
Constitution. After the first apportionment, 
based on the 1790 census, the House 
increased to 106 members. This increase 
worked out to about one representative for 
every 33,000 Americans. Today, after the 
reapportionment from the 2000 census, 
each of the 435 representatives has about 
630,000 constituents. It is essentially impos
sible to keep the same ratio that the nation 
started with  that would result in over 
8000 representatives  but reducing the 
gap would have several direct benefits.
To start, one of the most commonly heard 
reasons for not voting is the feeling that My 
vote doesnt matter. It is easy enough to 
understand. When 630,000 people are vot
ing for someone, one persons voting has a 
small impact. With fewer people in each 
congressional district, an individual's vote 
would matter more.
Lobbyists would have less influence over 
the political process. A newly elected official 
has had to spend a great deal of money to 
get into Congress. Some of them, such as 
Senator Jon Corzine (D-N.J.) or 
Representative Darrell Issa (R-Calif.) are 
fortunate enough to be independently 
wealthy. For most, the contributions of lob
byists make up a great portion of the cam
paign coffers. The more seats there are in
the house, the less difficult it is to be elected 
to one of them. Additionally, the greater 
number of seats means that it is worth less 
to a company to try to influence any individ
ual  even if one needed to spend less per 
person, the return on the investment would 
still be less.
Paradoxically, there would likely be fewer 
government employees if there were more 
representatives in the House. It is undeni
able that the number of things under 
Congresss purview has increased over the 
years. With these added responsibilities and 
obligations, each congressman needs to do 
more than his counterpart from years past. 
He cannot do it alone. In 1930, there were 
870 staffers in the House to aid with every
thing from answering letters from con
stituents to drafting legislation. In 1999, 
there were 7216. With more congressmen to 
carry out their duties, there will be less of a 
need for all these staffers.
And with the resumption of the simple 
duties, such as corresponding with voters, 
each representative will be forced to pay 
attention to his districts desires. The 
decrease in voter apathy and smaller num
ber of votes needed to get elected will mean 
that an incumbent will have to remain 
responsive to the population, or find himself 
looking for a new job. Even without taking 
that into consideration, there will be a 
greater turnover in the House due to repre
sentatives retiring.
Some would say that increasing the size 
of the House would make an already 
unwieldy body even more so. Again, this 
assumption ignores that the number of peo
ple required to keep the House running 
already far outstrips the number of repre
sentatives elected. Compare our House to 
the British House of Commons. There, 651 
members represent the 59 million inhabi
tants of England. They have a ratio of one 
member to 90,000 inhabitants. This is a 
quarter of the current ratio in America. How 
many representatives could we support? 
There is no strict consensus, even among 
those who favor increasing the number.
Certainly no one suggests reducing the 
number. The upper limit, set by Article I of 
the Constitution, is one for every 30,000 cit
izens, or about 9000 representatives today. 
So where should we go in between?
One suggestion is to follow a formula that 
was determined to roughly fit the size of the 
House up until 1910, when the size of 
Congress was set at the present 435 mem
bers, the same as today. It uses the cube root 
of the number of people of voting age popu
lation as the size. This number would calcu
late to about 588 members today. Another 
opinion from history professor Andrew 
Cohen of Syracuse University is that 1,000 
is perfectly workable. I would go some
where in between  perhaps 750. *
Some might complain that the halls 'of 
Congress are not large enough to accommo
date this many representatives at any given 
time. With the House floor already straining 
during events like the State of the Union, 
this complaint does have some merit. There 
are two things that can be done. One option 
is to renovate and expand the building. This 
was done once before, but space may be 
lacking now, and moving is not really viable. 
The other option is to ignore the complaint. 
Most work is not done on the floor, but in 
the meeting rooms around the capital. 
Besides relatively rare events like the State 
of the Union address, most of the house 
does not need to be there at any given time. 
With electronic voting and wireless commu
nication devices like Blackberries, represen
tatives have less of a need than ever before 
to be on the floor. Watch C-SPAN some time. 
It is often empty, even during a debate.
Increasing the size of the House is not a 
cure-all. There would still be a lack of open
ness, and it is possible that the parties would 
have further influence over their members. 
Even so, the benefits would outweigh the 
disadvantages.
James Auwaerter (jauwaert@) is copy man
ager for The Tartan. He realizes that the 
biggest problem of adding more seats to the 
House is having more politicians.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN JANUARY 26, 2004
THE TARTAN
Carnegie Mellons Student Newspaper Since 1906
SENIOR STAFF 
Albert Cohen
STAFFWRITERS 
Jeannie Choi, Michael Croland, Joe 
Elliott, Ben Hackett, Colin Holloway, 
Teh Seng Keat, Alexandra Kilduff, 
Molly McAshan, Laura Palotie, Rachel 
Papernick, Matt Rado, Lauren Sauer, 
Caleb Stright, James Tetlow, Katherine 
Thompson, Preston Treichel, Cecilia 
Westbrook, Dinah Winnick, Hannah Yi
ART
Sherry Chang, Brian Currens, Brenna 
Ivanhoe, Jennifer Keinard, Marina 
Kliger, Bum Lee, Grace Li, Lizza 
McGregor, Anupama Melville, Chris 
Millet, Laura Semesky, Vanessa Shyu, 
Margaret Szeto, Charles Wright
COMICS
Bill Bernstein, Amy Bickerton, Franz 
Harter, Nick Marino, Scott Niekum, 
Gregory Prichard, Bob Rost, Ed Ryan, 
Geoffrey Washburn, Daniel Vogel
PHOTO
Jennifer Anttonen, Namtarn Chaipan, 
Anthony DAuria, Wenyao Ho, Eugene 
Hsia, Veronique Lee, Matt Meurer, 
Michael Preysman, Orathai Sukwong, 
David Rush, Mark Rau, Kathy Saye, 
Shafeeq Sinnamohideen
COPY
Catherine Fan, Adina Klein, Arthur 
ODwyer
AD STAFF 
Sureena Bhansali, Patricia Chon, 
Julian Chun, Prantik Kundu, 
Jennifer Lin, Aditi Raturi, Heidi 
Woo, Mike Yang, Ranie You
JUNIOR STAFF 
Sid Butalia, Erin Danehy, Khalid El-, 
Arini, Steven Goldberg, James Hart, 
Kirk Higgins, Mustafa Khan, Luke 
Kryzanowsi, Ponnurangam - 1 
Kumaraguru, Nayema Kuddus, Rebecca 
Lee, Will Minton, Stephanie Natale, 
Amrut Pati, Susan Peich, ChristinaShin, Mukund Sureshbabu ;
The Tartan is the student newspaper of Carirjegie 
Mellon University. The first issue is free. 
Additional copies can be purchased for $0.25 
each. It is a weekly newspaper published by stu
dents during the fall and spring semesters. It is 
printed by Western Pennsylvania Printing, Inc. 
Subscriptions are available for the semester or 
academic year. The editorials appearing at thef 
beginning of the opinion section are the official 
opinion of The Tartan editorial board. Columns 
and political cartoons are the opinions of indi
vidual creators. The Tartan reserves the right to 
reject or condense any column or political car
toon. Letters to the Editor are opinions of 
authors who are usually, but not necessarily, 
members of the University community. A letter 
intended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone number 
for verification. Names may be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan requests that letters be no 
longer than 350 words. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter. Letters to 
the Editor must be submitted by 5 pm the 
Thursday before publication. Copyright  2004 
by The Tartan. The Tartan editorial board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit for publication. Office: 
University Center Room 314. Phone: (412) 268- 
2111. Mailing address: The Tartan/Box 1017/ 
Carnegie Mellon University/
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017.
E-mail:
tartan@andrew. cmu.edu 
All rights reserved.
Library of Congress 
ISSN#:0890-3107.
The Tartan is a member of the Associated 
Collegiate Press.
With funding cut, Library needs to focus resources
CMU athletics facilities badly need funding
Oeuttle fawklC
Celanie Polanick
In a city that young people cant 
wait to leave, were pouring more 
money than ever into the flashiest 
attractions money can buy. First it 
was a hip new bus route, followed by 
two hot date spots disguised as stadi
ums. But now, weve discovered the 
fastest way to keep college graduates 
in town  thats right, were renovat
ing the library.
It started in 2001, when the library 
system decided it could no longer 
continue ministering to the book-loving public in its current digs. Citing 
crumbling, leaky buildings, no air 
conditioning, and poor handicapped 
accessibility, the library system 
issued a public bond to raise the 
money to renovate the main branch 
in Oakland and four others: 
Homewood, Squirrel Hill, Woods 
Run, and Brookline.
The arts and nonprofit scene had 
shown signs of shrinkage all over the 
country for several years, and 
Pennsylvanias spasms of fiscal irre
sponsibility seemed to become more 
violent every year. But library fund
ing had increased steadily for eight 
years, resulting in new programming 
and, apparently, a surplus of 
resources across the board. Library 
officials figured they might as well go 
for the gold. They planned a combi
nation of renovation and moving that 
would end up costing millions.
Renovations of the Homewood 
library are done, but the plan as a 
whole still has a long way to go. The 
main branch remains open during 
renovation, Hazelwood, Squirrel Hill, 
and Woods Run are in the design and 
refurbishment stages, and Brookline 
is temporarily closed for renovations. 
^ Homewoods $3.6 million renova..tion, which was finished this week, 
seems nice  renovators made room 
for new features while recycling 
antique architectural elements like a
Why arent the librarys financial 
kingpins working like mad to termi
nate these contracts in order to avoid 
interest costs that will cut even fur
ther into their meager budget? At the 
very least, they could put renovations 
on hold until the state-induced red 
alert is over. But instead, the library 
keeps on spending in a frenzied fash
ion that suggests it has taken a page 
from city councils notebook  how 
appropriate for Pittsburgh, where we 
have a bad habit of leaving our 
biggest problems on the shelf until 
the roof falls in.
Celanie Polanick (celanie@) is a con
tributing editor. She has exorbitant 
library fines, realizes the irony, and 
continues to ignore them.
is $5000. This meager sum is intend
ed to cover all repairs and equipment 
purchases for the year. Additional 
money is sometimes used, but it 
needs to be specially allocated from 
the Athletics Department.
Skibo Gym has ancient equipment 
and very disorganized dumbbell sets. 
While the older equipment, some of 
which was purchased as long as 25 
years ago according to Morosky, still 
serves its purpose adequately, it gives 
the gym several undesirable stigmas.
Among those who avoid Skibo 
Gym, the old equipment contributes 
to sentiments such as that place is 
scary, and Skibo is old and ugly. 
Among those who do use Skibo Gym, 
the poor state of the equipment is 
partly responsible for the mistreat
ment of the equipment. When equip
ment is new and doesnt look like its 
been through World War II, people 
feel an obligation to respect it.
I went to an undergrad school 
with an awesome gym. Coming to 
CMU is kind of depressing when 
looking at the exercise facilities, 
wrote Jeremy Shaffer, the Graduate 
Student Assembly vice-president of 
campus affairs, in an e-mail.
Several people, including Shaffer, 
have suggested converting Danforth 
Lounge in the UC into an additional 
exercise room. This would relieve 
much of the overcrowding in the UC 
weight room and allow the depart
ment to purchase new equipment. It 
would be an ideal location  its 
right next to the existing weight 
room and provides ample space.
precious oak circulation desk. The 
building is now designed around a 
refurbished African-American collec
tion and reading area, and kids enjoy 
the benefits of a homework club 
made possible by the addition of a 
childrens reading area.
But in Hazelwood, the historic and 
unique branch building is being 
abandoned this month in favor of 
Sophia Plaza, a modern and more 
spacious facility above a laundromat 
and a deli. The new building has an 
elevator, air conditioning, and space 
for a childrens area, but the old one 
had an intact stained-glass dome and 
a mahogany circulation desk. It also 
had fans  a legion of community 
members showed up to protest the 
move at a City Council meeting in
November, and community groups 
like the Glen Hazel Citizens 
Association and the Greater
Hazelwood Development, Inc., have 
spoken out against the move.
And as it turns out, theyre right to 
speak against the move. Earlier this 
year, the city yanked half of its total 
library funding (down from $60,000 
to $30,000). The citys portion of the 
librarys funding now amounts only 
to 10 percent of the systems operat
ing budget, said library director Jo 
Ellen Kenney in December  a slice 
just sharp enough to shave hours 
thin, close branches on Sunday, and 
reduce many other services.
The citys cut seems insignificant 
compared to the millions the library 
is hemorrhaging to pay for all its ren
ovations. But the citys funding cut is 
little more than a slap in the face 
compared to impending cuts of the 
same proportions by the state  the 
city of Pittsburghs careful planning 
has cheated the system out of 
$125,000 of the $250,000 it used to 
get from the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania.
Granted, the library systems oper
ating budget and its capital budget 
are legally separate  in fact, the 
conditions of the public bond stipu
late that all that seemingly extra 
money must be used for its original 
purpose: renovation. Library officials 
couldnt transfer those funds to the 
operating budget even if they wanted 
to. The problem is that they dont 
want to.
Gym facilities at CMU are one of 
those things that almost everyone 
using them has complaints with, but 
the effort required to complain to the 
-proper channels likely outweighs any 
^possible benefits. I recently took the 
time to complain to the proper chan, flels and found out a good deal about 
the athletics situation.
The problems with the University 
Center and Skibo gyms cover a range 
of issues: the gyms are overcrowded, 
there is an insufficient number of 
machines, and some equipment is old 
and frequently in need of repair.
If you walk into the UC weight 
room, there is often a line of people 
waiting to use the treadmills. There 
are only five treadmills in the UC 
gym, and they are almost constantly 
in use. There is one treadmill in Skibo 
Gym, but it is sometimes broken. This 
total of six treadmills is terribly inad
equate, considering that CMU has no 
indoor track and Pittsburgh winter 
weather is harsh enough to intimi
date even the hardiest of runners. 
CMU has over 8000 people with 
access to the gyms, and six treadmills 
are not nearly enough to serve a pop
ulation of that size.
According to Donna Morosky, the 
director of fitness and health, the 
line-item budget for repairs and new 
equipment in Skibo Gym and the UC
to support this idea and push the 
administration to use Danforth 
Lounge for athletics space.
According to Hugh Marshall, the 
equipment manager at Case Western 
Reserve University (CWRU), they are 
currently doing a complete renova
tion of their weight room. In their 
aerobics room, they have 30 cardio 
machines  which exceeds the num
ber CMU has. CWRU only has six 
treadmills  comparable to CMUs
This would also substitute for last 
years plans to build a gym in the UC 
basement, which failed because of 
conflict over whether we would actu
ally want to be relegated to the base
ment.
In the original plans of the UC, 
Danforth Lounge was part of the 
recreation space, said Bill Elliott, 
vice-president of Enrollment. Too 
bad we didnt respect the intentions 
of the UC architects. I urge studentsSee ATHLETICS, page A10
number  but they also have a six 
lane indoor track, which has the 
capacity to fill the role of at least ten 
treadmills.
Many schools of CMUs size have 
vastly larger and more modern gyms. 
Admittedly, these are often schools 
with larger endowments or schools 
that place more of a priority
A PERSONS OPINION
Compiled by Eugene Hsia
With one of NASAs Mars landers losing contact with earth one day last week, we 
asked the following question:
Matt Carson
Sophomore 
Computer Science
I figure it was a software glitch.
Bryan Oh
First-year student 
General H&SS
Martian aliens reprogrammed the 
lander so it could do their evil bidding.
What happened to the Mars lander during these 24 hours?
Yo, I dont know man. I havent been 
keepin up.
I think there was mechanical damRight now, that isnt one of my conage due to dust on Mars. cerns.
Dan
First-year student 
General H&SS
josn layior
Sophomore
Mechanical Engineering
bara umeno
Masters student
Public Policy and Management
I

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  JANUARY 26, 2004
University should fund gyms, equipment
ATHLETICS, from page A9
on athletics. Nevertheless, a little 
_ work on the part of students and 
administration could noticeably 
improve CMUs facilities.
In the Skibo weight room, there are 
usually 30 to 40 dumbbells scattered 
on the floor all around the room  
making it very difficult to find the 
one you need. Students are partly to 
vblame for not returning the weights.
To those who dont return their 
, Weights, all I have to say to you is: 
youre not in high school anymore; 
you dont have your mommy to pick 
up after you. Stop pretending your 
tuition money gives you the right to 
mistreat the gym, and start picking 
up after yourself.
Despite student laziness, there are 
other reasons why such disorganiza
tion happens at Skibo Gym but few 
other gyms. Currently, there are no 
signs posted reminding users to 
return weights. Furthermore, the 
weight rack is extremely old and 
rudimentary; it is a very inadequate 
means of organizing the weights. 
There is also the space issue  the 
weight area does not have enough 
space for people to use the weights, 
which results in having them scat
tered all over the room.
The Athletics Department staff 
picks up and racks all the weights in
the room once per month. This is not 
often enough. It needs to be done 
once per day, or at least once per 
week. Skibo needs an equipment 
attendant who is responsible for 
weight room organization and other 
daily maintenance tasks.
Theft is a rampant problem in 
Skibo Gym. Weight plates and dumb
bells are regularly stolen. According 
to Morosky, the stereo boombox in 
the Skibo body shop was stolen after 
only a month, despite its being heavyduty bolted and secured to the wood
en shelving.
A few cheap security cameras 
would serve as a strong deterrent to 
theft. In my opinion, cameras in 
weight and aerobics rooms are com
pletely acceptable and pose a mini
mal intrusion upon privacy.
In all fairness, despite the gyms 
problems, it could be worse. 
Although there havent been many 
equipment purchases or building ren
ovations over the past three years, 
there are now a couple projects start
ing up.
There are plans underway to reno
vate the Skibo weight room floor 
through a special allocation of funds. 
The new floor will be a seemless 
poured rubber flooring which is 
durable and superior to the previous 
flooring.
The Athletics Department also
recently made a special $24,000 pur
chase of new equipment which will 
be distributed between the UC gym 
and Skibo gym.
A long-term possibility for address
ing the funding shortage is to insti
tute a gym recreation fee. Many 
schools already have athletics and fit
ness fees of about $60. We already 
pay an activities fee, dorm activity 
fee, and Port Authority charge, so 
would a paltry 0.2 percent increase in 
our tuition and fees really matter? 
Not really, when compared to the 
annual five percent increase of 
tuition.
An athletic facilities fee would pro
vide a steady income stream and 
allow immediate and dramatic 
improvements to the gym facilities.
Regardless of where the funds 
come from, it is clear that the facili
ties need more money to be used 
towards purchasing new equipment 
and expanding the available space. 
The more people that speak out, the 
more likely the administration will do 
something about this situation. Take 
a few minutes to contact Bill Elliott or 
Donna Morosky and tell them your 
opinion on the gym facilities.
John Davin (jdavin@) is a senior in 
computer science, and misses the U.S. 
Navy gym in Newport, R.I. He asks that 
you e-mail him with your ideas.
I bleed plaid.
THE TARTAN
Do you?
mm
SUMMER
VISITING
UNDERGRADUATE
PROGRAM
Catch Up Or Get
Ahead On Credits
hU IT6 bT2s Hpki2s U2iv6rsiUy
, i  i*wwri

;
Need to catch up or get ahead on credits? Want to lighten your 
spring and fall course loads? Desire to graduate on time?
Whatever your reason, enrolling in a summer course at The Johns Hopkins 
University has many benefits:
 Learn from experienced faculty at a world-renowned research university.
 Select from 90 courses in over 30 disciplines.
 Enjoy the many amenities and resources that Hopkins has to offer.
 Attend class close to home if you live near Maryland.
Log onto www.jhu.edu/summer to request your summer schedule or to 
download an application.
Term 1
June 1 thru July 2*  - " ............
July 6 thru August 6 
Application Deadline: June 14
3400 North Chartes St. 
Wyman Park Bldg.; Ste. <31 
Baltimore, MD 2121#JOHNS HOPKINS . 410,5ifafoisiMTt 8.548.fpa
: . ' ; :
vvrnvvivvv
 i I f :MMiWm *
# feip m  . . ;
. V :
i Mlpiji
Series sponsor:
Vh Mellon
Student ticket sponsor:
Mellon n,oes gio22u42
Friday, January 30, 2004 8:00 pm 
Saturday, January 31, 2004 8:00 pivi 
Sunday, February 1, 2004 2:30 pm
Pittsburgh Symphony Heinz Hall, in the heart of the Cultural District
Joy and Meditation
Sir John Eliot Gardiner, conductor  William Cabellero,
Ronald Schneider, Robert Lauver, Joseph Rounds, horn 
SCHUMANN: Konzertstck for Four Horns and Orchestra 
SHOSTAKOVICH: Symphony for Strings 
BRAHMS: Symphony No. 2
The outstanding PS0 Horns are in the spotlight for Schumanns Konzertstck. 
Then experience an intense and mournful piece from Shostakovich and 
Brahms Second Symphony, which starts in shade and ends in sunlight.
Insights  Ken Meltzer illustrates the influence of World War II on 
Shostakovichs Symphony.
Behind The Notes Concert Preview (one hour before the concert): 
The Konzertstck A rare opportunity to hear Robert Schumanns 
virtuoso work, showcasing the talents of four solo horns!
STUDENT RUSH TICKETS on sale at the Pittsburgh Symphony Box Office two hours before the concert with 
a valid student ID, or buy discounted tickets in advance at the University Center information desk.
Nat iato nWratiePnaW gehh 412.392.4900 at wnvnv.pnPPsbutghsyipbaWy.atg
PITTSBURGH SYMPHONY
Music for Everyone - Music for your Life
Pennsylvania Governors 
for the Sciences
Applicants should have finished their sophomore year by the start of the 
program. Preference will he given to applicants with outstanding academic 
records and strong social skills. You will he expected to serve as dormitory 
counselor, to live in the same dormitory as the PGSS students, see that he PGSS 
disciplinary rules are adhered to, provide tutorial help in the academic 
program, and conduct program and social activities. Further information 
will be available at the PGSS website: wvvnv-pgss.mcs.cmu.edu.
Stipend for five-and-one-half week period: $2,000 for new TAs 
$2,200 for returning TAs
Free room is provided as well as a food allowance
PGSS is in session from June 27th to July 31st
Counselor duties begin June 23rd, and August 1st
Applications available in DH 1301 or may be downloaded (pdf format) from the PGS website at
www-pgs.mcs.cmu.edu
Contact Gerry Rensko at 268-6669 
or e-maii rensko@andrew.cmu.edu
Application Deadline: February 13, 2004
School
Undergraduate summer employment at; Carnegie Mellon University is 
available with the Pennsylvania Governors School for the Sciences. The PPGS 
is a five-week simner school for extremely talented high school students from 
Pennsylvania. Teaching Assistant/Counselor appointments are available in 
the areas of biology; chemistry, physics, computer science, and mathematics.

---------------------------------------------------

ke's indiscnmina 
ogiiized. That's ;
Serious depression strikes millions.- Serious depression sir 
Serious depression is MOST dangerous when it goes unrec 
so important to always be aware of the threat 
of depression. And If your life is ever UIVT6
interrupted py a .period .of
depression, remember that it is # Jb f
readily, medically treatable.
Spring Break in Panama City Beach, Florida!
ing and currently is 11th among 
active players. Despite undergoing 
minor injuries and occasional
Source: www.espn.com
Compiled by: 
Dan CepposCarnegie Mellon
AWAYHOME
January 26 January 27 January 28 January 29 January 30 January 31 February 1
MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY FRIDAY SATURDAY SUNDAY
Washington 
University ofUniversity of 
Chicago 
8:00 PMMEN'S
BASKETBALL
Washington 
University of 
St Louis 
3:00 PM
University of 
Chicago 
6:00 PM
Case Western '
MEN AND 
WOMEN'S 
TRACKReach your target audience more quickly than ever 
before with superior exposure in The Tartan. Discounts 
are available for student organizations.
Bridget Lewis/Art Editor
Carnegie Mellon University Joins the 
ENERGY STAR Million Monitor Drive 
Saves Energy, Money, and Protects the Environment
'V
Pittsburgh, PA - By joining the ENERGY STAR Million Monitor 
Drive, Carnegie Mellon University will help save energy, money and   
protect the environment by putting its computer monitors to sleep. 
ENERGY STAR hopes to activate monitor power management, which\>
sets monitors to go into a low-power"sleep" mode during periods of 
 inactivity, on 2 million computer monitors through the Million 
Monitor Drive.
Working with ENERGY STAR, Carnegie Mellon's Green Practices 
has pledged to enable the power management features on over 1000 
computer monitors this year. This initiative will save approximately 
2,000,000 kWh over the next year, or electricity used by 1150 U.S. 
homes for one month. At 5.6 cents per kWh, Carnegie Mellon will see 
an annual savings of $130,000.
"Every watt counts,"said Brad Hochberg. "Carnegie Mellon is 
committed to using energy efficiently, and the simple act of powering 
down our computer screens is helping us reduce our energy use, save 
money and set a positive example in the community."
1 CamedeMellon
SS, WM jIIlr 
To get started, contact tartan-ads@andrew.cmu.edu today!
^11111Siiik. * . wll I !' ?-*- iiS! 1. *
800 feet of Gulf Beach Frontage  2 Large Outdoor Swimming Pool 
Sailboat, Jet Ski & Parasail Rentals  Lazy River Ride & Water Slid 
Huge Beachfront Hot Tub  Volleyball  Suites up to 12 people
Worlds Longest Keg Party  Live Band & DJ 
Wet T-Shirt, Hard Body & Venus Swimwear Contest
r---------   6mmJ yo,i0
fcfe Nofw MMM
THE TARTAN  JANUARY 26, 2004
and Pats Preview
Snorts Wirei Panthers
I
\ FOOTBALL, from page A12
I ----:----;-------------------------------------------------
No matter how good the coach, 
i however, it is clear the Pats wouldnt 
: be here without talent, and there is
no shortage of that in New England. 
Led by the defense, there are bigname guys littered across the lineup. 
Thanks to the large-and-in-charge 
Ted Washington, the D-line is great 
against the run. Willie McGinest, 
Richard Seymour, and even Jarvis 
! Green (who had a big weekend 
; against Indy) can all apply pressure,
; allowing for an above-average sec
ondary (thanks in large part to iy 
< Law) to deal with Carolinas passing 
) 
i
game. New Englands D can domi
nate all aspects of a game, so their 
offense doesnt have to be great. 
Which is a good thing, since Carolina 
can be just as disruptive against 
opposing scoring threats.
Look for this game to come down 
to kickers, and there is no kicker 
more clutch than Adam Vinatieri. If 
the world were ending, Vinatieri 
would stare the four horsemen down 
in the middle of their apocalyptic 
stampede and coolly nail a 64-yard 
field goal in 5 feet of molten lava. I 
would trust the man with my chil
dren; he doesnt screw up when it 
counts.
All in all, I feel the Pats will come 
away with another Lombardi Trophy, 
giving them a legitimate place in the 
top ten teams of all time. (The 
Millennial Pats? Doesnt quite have 
the ring of the 70s Steelers or 80s 
Niners, but it will have to do.) I will, 
of course, be partying hard, enjoying 
the hell out of my rambunctious self, 
and rooting for New England to lead 
me to victory in my small-time 
wagers. Enjoy the game.
Colin Holloway (colinh@) is a 
senior decision science major. He 
accepts all reasonable responses to 
his column.
Jagr finds home in 
New York
The blockbuster trade that has 
been brewing for months between 
the Washington Capitals and the 
New York Rangers has finally come 
to fruition as the teams swapped 
superstar forward Jaromir Jagr for 
Anson Carter on Friday.
Washingtons expectations for the 
addition of Jagr in 2001 were high 
but largely unfulfilled.
In two years, the Capitals made 
the playoffs once, only to lose in the 
first round to the Tampa Bay 
Lightning. Moreover, the team had 
been reportedly losing over $20 mil
lion a year.
This was a contract we had to 
move, said Washington GM George 
McPhee. We couldnt go forward in 
our market in this era with this type 
of deal.
The trade included a restructuring 
of Jagrs hefty 11 million dollar per 
season contract as the Caps began 
the task of cutting payroll. In return, 
Washington received Carter who has 
10 goals and 7 assists this season. 
More importantly, his contract is 
only worth $2.8 million per year.
The Rangers, on the other hand, 
add yet another powerful offensive 
player. Jagr is 30th all time in scorslumps, the right winger still man
aged to score 16 goals and 29 assists 
thus far this season.
Currently two points out of eighth 
place, New York hopes landing Jagr 
will bring them back into the play
offs for the first time in 8 years.
The Capitals, holding 14th place 
in the Eastern Conference, have all 
but abandoned playoff hopes for this 
year.
Source: www.espn.com
Urbina arrested, 
not charged
Former Florida Marlins closer 
Ugueth Urbina was arrested Friday 
in a well-to-do Caracas, Venezuela, 
neighborhood for allegedly firing 
shots from an unregistered gun. A 
judge dismissed the charges against 
the pitcher on Sunday.
Urbinas lawyer told the 
Venezuelan newspaper El Universal 
that the charges against the pitcher 
were dropped and his clients use of 
a firearm was in self-defense from an 
attempted robbery from a man on a 
motorcycle.
The shots were fired by the pitcher 
while being driven in the car of a 
friend, Cesar Diaz. According to 
police, both he and Urbina were 
intoxicated when they were taken in.
The unregistered 9mm gun was 
seized in the arrest.
Ail
Lakers beat Utah in 
Kobes return
Kobe Bryant returned from the 
injury reserve list on Saturday, as the 
Los Angeles Lakers handled the Utah 
Jazz 93-86. Kobe scored 21 points 
and dished 6 assists in the winning 
effort.
Though the Lakers were ecstatic to 
have their superstar guard return 
after six games with a sprained right 
shoulder, Utah fans werent nearly as 
pleased. Every time Kobe touched 
the ball he was met with boos, jeers, 
and got knocked around, only to 
silence the crowd with a solid game 
and provide a spark for his team.
I think we were truly energized 
by the return of Kobe. He helped us 
get going, shooting the ball well at 
the beginning of the game, said 
Lakers coach Phil Jackson. He 
brought an energy and cockiness to 
the game that gave [the team] a con
fidence level that they hadnt played 
with in the last two road games.
Prior to Saturday, the Lakers had 
lost the last nine games away from 
the Staples Center.
Karl Malone did not play in his 
Utah homecoming, still being out 
with a knee injury. Shaquille ONeal 
also did not play, with a hurt calf.
With the loss, the Jazzs recent los
ing streak reached 5 games.
Source: www.espn.com
(IVI
NEWS
1-26-2004
Administration
Intramural Director:
Mike Mastroianni x8-2214 or 
mma8
Assistant Director:
Mike Grzywdgetinski x8-2214 or 
immike
Secretary: Amy Kiryk x8-2053 or 
kiryk
President: Derek Ritchea dritchea 
Vice President: Shawn Quinn 
squinn
Womens President: Karoline
Evans koe
Important Dates
Mon. Jan. 26 - Basketball season 
starts
Thurs. Jan. 29 - Pinochle, Team 
and Co-Rec Badminton Rosters 
due by 4:30 pm
Basketball - The road to Skibo 
starts tonight at the UC Courts. 
There are 104 teams playing in the
4 leagues this year. Games are 
played Monday through Thursday 
nights and Sunday afternoons. 
Schedules are available at the IM 
Office.
Floor Hockey  Schedules are 
available in the IM Office. Tbe sea
son started last Wednesday night 
in the Arena Room.
Spades  Spades playoffs are 
posted at the IM Office.
If you have any questions, call the 
IM Office atx8-2214.

---------------------------------------------------

Sports
26 January 2004 THE TARTAN Page Al2,
Swim teams win at home, prep for UAAs Panthers and Patriots face off
by Colin Holloway
Staffwriter
 The varsity swim teams wrapped 
up their dual meet season on 
Saturday against Allegheny College. 
In this final dual competition, 
Carnegie Mellon swimming head 
coach Dave Belowich saw more of 
the same from his mens squad and a 
solid performance from his womens 
team to seal a winning season. The 
mens team won by a score of 146-78 
finishing a perfect 7-0 in dual meet 
competition, while the women, who 
won back-to-back meets to close out 
their run, 150-98 on Saturday ended 
up at 4-3.
The men were sparked by sopho
more Brian Hunter who not only 
took the 100-yard backstroke and 
200-yard freestyle, but also led off 
for the winning 400-yard freestyle 
relay team. Brian McCarthy contin
ued his stellar season with victories 
in the 100-yard breaststroke and 50- 
yard freestyle, and sophomore Evan 
Powell rounded out the double win
ners by taking the 200-yard IM and 
100-yard freestyle. Other individual 
winners included senior Brian 
Belowich who touched first in the 
200-yard breaststroke, and Will 
Schmitt who swam a season best 
time of 2:02.56 to capture the 200- 
yard butterfly. Senior Brian Jucha 
won the 100-yard butterfly, and 
junior Chris Pearson rounded out a 
high profile campaign with a victory 
in the 200-yard backstroke.
Junior Kate Riche started things 
off for the women with an early vic
tory in the 100-yard backstroke. 
Sophomore Allie Theus won the 200- 
yard IM and 200-yard butterfly, and 
swam a leg in a 400-yard freestyle 
relay to lead the women to the victo
ry in the meet. The other double 
winner for the women was senior 
Corey Ginsberg who took the 50- 
yard freestyle and 200-yard back
stroke. Senior Julie Tibor and junior 
Jenn Wong contributed victories in 
the 100-yard and 200-yard
freestyles, respectively. First-years 
were well represented by Jenny 
Sieger, who won the 100-yard 
breaststroke and Abby Barnes in the 
taxing 500-yard freestyle.
The Tartan divers added points in

'r* .....- -...............................................
Photo courtesy of Dexter Hu
Brian McCarthy, awarded UAA player of the week honors this week, swims to a first place finish in the 100-yard 
breaststroke and 50-yard freestyle.
the 1 meter diving competition with 
senior Sean Battis winning on the 
mens side, while sophomore Julie 
Pavia and junior Mindi Finnegan 
took second and third in their com
petitions. Although the swimmers 
offer a more salient image of the pro
grams success, the Carnegie Mellon 
divers have contributed to meet vic
tories throughout the season, and 
finished a year that saw records set.
As has been the trend all season, 
however, it was not just the individ
ual winners who earned the victory 
this weekend.
The meet results are littered with 
top 5 finishes, with the Tartans 
sweeping some events, illustrating a 
team effort in the win over 
Allegheny. Carnegie Mellon swim
mers were spearheaded by their first 
place finishes, but there was no 
shortage of events that were domi
nated by the team.
The victory set a landmark for the 
mens team, as they went four 
straight years without a loss in a dual 
meet.
It feels good to have four perfect 
years in dual meet competition, said 
Brian Belowich. It is probably a best 
kept secret at this school; no one 
really knows the mens team hasnt 
lost a dual meet in four years.
This incredible record over the 
seniors tenure on the team was the 
icing on the cake in what proved to 
be a great day for both squads.
We did well this weekend in win
ning both, said Belowich, We had 
14 seniors, and all of them did a 
great job. I think theyll remember 
their last dual meet. This was a nice 
way to finish off our season.
While both squads are awash with 
relief and satisfaction, their most dif
ficult challenge of their year awaits 
them at Emory College, host of the
2004 UAA meet in two weeks.
Now is a time to get serious, said 
Belowich. UAAs are coming, and 
we are going to spend the next cou
ple of weeks refining our technique, 
conditioning, and lowering our 
times.
Although some of the workouts 
will become increasingly more 
intense in the coming weeks, the 
dedication to hard work and success 
that has become the swimmers call
ing card will remain for the duration 
of the season.
We are all looking forward to 
UAAs, said Brian McCarthy, We are 
going to just keep doing what we 
have done all year, were going to 
swim hard. Regardless of the results 
in Emory, both teams have had good 
seasons.
Weve had a good year, said 
coach Belowich, Hopefully, it leads 
to good things to come in UAAs.
for next weeks showdown
gmiue cmiimDo0
Less than a week from now, one of 
the most spectacular postseasons Ive 
seen will come to a climax in Houston 
as the New England could-be-adynasty Patriots take on their mirror 
image of two years ago, the Carolina 
upset-special Panthers. While the 
Pats emerge from a talent-laden AFC, 
the Panthers managed to squeak 
through a strapped NFC conference 
that produced no dominant teams. I 
think any one of the teams who made 
it to the AFC playoffs could beat the 
Panthers, much less their fallen 
opponents. However, despite the 
NFCs apparent lack of talent, the 
Panthers may not be a team to over
look when picking this years victor. 
This game should continue the trend 
of close games that have saturated 
this second-season, with the team 
who makes the last mistake costing 
themselves a chance at the title. Here 
are a few reasons both teams can win:
Carolina: When someone mentions 
this team, the first thing they think 
about is defense. The second thing is 
the running game behind power-back 
Stephen Davis or, if Davis cant go, 
up-and-coming DeShaun Foster. I 
think that these are clearly strengths 
of the Panthers team, but dont over
look Delhomme and wide receiver 
duo Steve Smith and Mushin 
Muhammad. Smith is a fast big-play 
receiver, who can tear up the middle 
of a defensive secondary; while 
Muhammad is the typical big, physi
cal guy who will make key catches. 
Everyone knows the Patriots have Ty 
Law, who is far and away the best 
shutdown corner in the game today, 
but does anyone know who the sec
ond starting corner for New England 
is? It could be a Final Jeopardy ques
tion, and stump us all. It is Tyrone 
Poole, and if that rings a bell then 
kudos. He and the rest of the not-iyLaw secondary could have trouble 
against an unheralded Carolina pass
ing attack. Dont forget that it was 
Muhammads TD catch that sparked 
the Panthers to a victory in Philly last 
weekend.
While I do think the passing game 
could be an X-factor for John Fox, this
game will be won or lost on the 
ground. They may not get any big 
running plays, and will have to rely 
on passes to score, but if Carolina can 
run against New England, which is no 
easy feat, then they may be able to 
win a close one. Fox needs to settle 
for a few three and outs to start the 
game, and continue pounding the 
ball with Davis or Foster, who showed 
incredible power on his TD run a 
week ago. If New England can force 
Carolina to abandon the run, this 
team is in trouble. Running is their 
bread and butter, and they need it to 
control the clock, even if all the 
scores come from one or two big pass
es.
And of course, the Carolina D is a 
fearsome and stifling unit. The 
Patriots offense looked woeful in 
their victory last week, and Brady 
came oh-so-close to losing it for the 
team on a couple occasions. That was 
against a Colts defense that is lacking 
at best, and Carolina is a much more 
physical unit with the ability to get to 
Brady and disrupt his game. 
Regardless of how the offense plays, 
the defense will show up in force, and 
should keep the team in the game 
long enough for them to win it.
New England: Last I checked, the 
favorites by nearly a touchdown do 
seem set to take another trophy back 
to the often beleaguered, and never 
quiet about it, Boston fans. Tom 
Brady manages to do just enough to 
win no matter the situation, and the 
offense knows that it doesnt have the 
star to win the game. Like the 
Panthers, the first thing that comes to 
mind when thinking of the Patriots is 
their defense, specifically their defen
sive guru head coach, Bill Belichick. 
Belichick is as studious as they come, 
and will no doubt find ways to over
come any chinks in his armor, while 
exploiting the weaknesses of 
Carolina.
While I dont feel hes as dominant 
a coach in this match-up as he has 
been over the last several weeks, I 
would rather have him on my side
lines than John Fox, even if Belichick 
looks like he shops at the Salvation 
Army.
See FOOTBALL, page All
Mens hoops fall short at Case, Emory
by Khalid El-Arini
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens bas
ketball team came up short twice 
this week in University Athletic 
Association play, losing away games 
at Case Western Reserve University 
and Emory University. After starting 
the week on a strong note by beating 
Hood College on the road to extend 
their win streak to five, the Tartans 
dropped to a 2-3 conference record 
(10-6 overall) after their weekend 
losses.
On Monday, January 19, the 
Tartans defeated the Hood College 
Blazers 84-72 in Frederick, 
Maryland. Junior guard Eliot Goren 
led all scorers with 20, while senior 
forward Matt Kaitz, junior forward 
Michael Divens and junior guard 
Jason Walters also posted double 
figures. A little over a week after 
scoring his 1000th career point as a 
Tartan, Kaitz had a solid perfor
mance, going a spectacular 8 for 10 
from the field, including two for two 
from behind the arc to start off the 
game.
Carnegie Mellon enjoyed a hot 
first half of shooting, making 19 of 
30 shots: an impressive 63 percent 
from the field. The Tartans started 
the second half in a similar fashion 
with a 22-5 run to make the score 
67-45. Although a late Hood rally 
narrowed the gap to seven points 
with under four minutes to play, the 
Blazers could not get past Carnegie 
Mellons stifling defense, which held 
the home squad to just 25 percent 
shooting in the second half.
The Tartans traveled to Cleveland, 
Ohio on Friday to face conference 
opponent Case Western, and were 
upset 86-75, as the Spartans got 
their first conference win of the sea
son. Case Westerns 70 percent first 
half shooting coupled with an 18-0 
run helped fuel the Spartans victo
ry. The Tartans made only 20 per
cent of their first half shots. Case 
Western took the lead four minutes 
into the game, and never looked 
back, taking a 27-point lead into the 
locker room at the half.
Carnegie Mellon rallied to cut the 
lead to 16 with ten minutes left on 
the clock, but the visitors could not 
get any closer. The Case Western 
win put them at a 1-3 conference 
record (3-12 overall). Spartan 
guard Funso Lafe led all scorers with 
36 points, going 16 for 19 from the 
field. The Tartans were led by Divens
The mens team crowds around the ball in a loss to Case Western on Friday.
and sophomore guard A.J. Straub, 
who had 21 and 17 points, respec
tively.
Sunday afternoon the Tartans 
played yet another intra-conference 
match in Atlanta against the Emory 
University Eagles.
Despite overcoming an 11-point 
deficit at halftime, Carnegie Mellon 
went ahead by four with 1:17 to go 
in the second half behind junior 
guard Jason Walters 25 points. 
However, due to missed free throws, 
Emory tied the game with 21 sec
onds left and went ahead on a 
Rashan Allen shot with 1.3 seconds 
remaining. Carnegie Mellon did get 
a last-second shot but missed the 
hoop and lost their second confer
ence game in three days.
It was a tough weekend. The way
it went in Emory was very disap
pointing because free throws have 
been a strength for us this season, 
head coach Tony Wingen said. We 
just had to play better in the first 
half. Its very difficult to dig out of 
an early hole.
The way we played today was 
definitely an improvement from 
Friday. We played much harder and 
had a chance to win but we couldnt 
pull it off, said junior guard Michael 
Divens.
Carnegie Mellon will play its next 
two games at home this week in 
Skibo Gymnasium, where they are 
unbeaten this season. The Tartans 
face the University of Chicago on 
Friday, January 30, at 8:00 pm, and 
Washington University in St. Louis 
on Sunday, February 1, at 1:00 pm.
Mens and Womens teams are back on track
Split squad track teams competed in exhibition meets at Slippery Rock and Denison University
by Mukund Sureshbabu
Junior Staffwriter
Saturday afternoon, Carnegie 
Mellon Universitys track teams split 
up and traveled to Slippery Rock and 
Denison Universities to participate in 
invitational exhibition meets.
Technique and form were the pri
mary focuses on Saturday as Dario 
Donatelli and Drew Dershimer, mens 
and womens respective head coach
es, divided the team in half and 
gauged expectations for individual 
team members.
The coaching staff was especially 
excited about his teams first-year
competitors, which he found to be 
the highlight of both meets. 
According to Donatelli, the first-years 
made striking first impressions.
I was very impressed with the 
technique and the times of the new 
runners. Hopefully, they will provide 
strong contributions this season, 
Donatelli said.
Aside from the host team at 
Denison, the Tartans competed 
against Ohio Wesleyan College, and 
Kenyon College. Some notable partic
ipants for Carnegie Mellon were 
junior Chris Carroll, who came in 
first in the 1500-meter heat 4:10.67; 
and first-year Russel Verbofsky, who 
came in first in the 200-meter heat
with a time of 23.62 seconds. Senior 
Jared Markowitz was first in the 
3000-meter dash with a time of 
09:05.33.
I was very happy with the perfor
mance of the team and I expect some 
players to do very well this season, 
said Donatelli. Meets like those we 
participated in this weekend are the 
best type of practice for real events to 
come because they simulate all 
aspects of scored meets.
Donatelli and Dershimer have high 
expectations for their teams this sea
son. Carnegie Mellons first regular 
season meet will not be until next 
week at Case Western Reserve 
University in Cleveland.
Womens basketball drops three straight
by Khalid El-Arini
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon womens bas
ketball teams frustrations continued 
this week as they dropped three con
tests. The Tartans extended their 
winless streak to eight games by los
ing to LaRoche College at home and 
to University Athletic Association 
rivals Case Western Reserve 
University and Emory University on 
the road. The Tartans remain winless 
in conference play, dropping to 0-5 
(3-13 overall), with their last victory 
coming over three weeks ago on 
January 3, at Villa Julie College.
On Monday, the Tartans lost to 
the LaRoche College Redhawks by a 
final score of 66-62. Carnegie 
Mellon led by as many as 12 points in 
the first half, led by junior guard Lisa 
Seacats 13 first half points. The 
Tartans went into the locker room up 
by four points at the half.
In the second half, LaRoche rallied 
with a 14-0 run until senior guard 
Marcia Velencia hit a jumper with 
2:51 left on the clock. A three-point 
shot by Seacat, who led all scorers 
with 24 points, reduced the lead to 
one with less than a minute remain
ing, but the Redhawks held on to win 
by four.
On Friday, the Tartans traveled to 
Cleveland and were handed an 87-53 
loss by the Case Western Spartans. 
The tempo was set in the beginning, 
as Case Westerns Jasmine Rowan 
opened the game by hitting a threepoint shot. The Spartans would 
make eleven more three pointers.
A Velencia three pointer and a
First-year guard Sara Burke plays aggressive D while sophomore forward 
Melissa DeAngelo boxes out in a loss to Case Western Reserve.
jumper by sophomore forward 
Melissa DeAngelo cut the home 
squads lead to four with just over six 
minutes left in the first half, but Case 
Western rallied to go into halftime up 
by 17, at 50-33. Carnegie Mellons 12 
early turnovers fueled a 23-7 run by 
the Spartans to start the second half 
and put the game out of reach.
Carnegie Mellon sophomore for
ward Dava Sommermeyer was the 
only Tartan in double figures with 18 
points, shooting 50 percent from the 
field and making 10 of 12 free 
throws. Case Westerns Dana 
Dempsey came off the bench to lead
all scorers with 19. The Tartans 27 
turnovers were nearly twice as many 
as the 15 committed by the Spartans.
The Tartans lost Sunday at Emory 
by a score of 69-43. Emorys Lynn 
Oberschmidt led all scorers with 17 
points as Carnegie Mellon struggled 
on the offensive end.
Carnegie Mellon will play their 
next two games at home this week in 
Skibo Gym, looking to get back in the 
win column. The Tartans face the 
University of Chicago on Friday, 
January 30, at 6:00 pm, and 
Washington University in St. Louis oh 
Sunday, February 1, at 3:00 pm.
rX

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

CONTENTS.
4a 1,lu2l/2 Lw4lF,w
Exhibits of human figures.
So Big Als Metal Shop
Fireball Ministry is hot.
vI awiurme me go.OF2
The first in a two-part series.
-I Ag,m22uer 6m,sw,2d
International Film Festival.
H ^ 1eluI8o, Tm4F.welo,0
Passion remains for the cause.
UnE Toe4wSLurYl Ww2lufoi
Style shines from every angle.
12o 6Fllw,Ri0 yRRw4l
One dangerous bug.
U8o COMICKAZE
The making of comics.
UH C goiweso,STAFF
EDITOR.IN.CHIEF 
MANAGING EDITOR 
PILLBOX EDITORS
COMICS EDITOR 
PHOTO EDITOR 
ART EDITOR 
COPY MANAGER 
PRODUCTION MANAGER
Alex Meseguer 
Jim Puls
Michelle M. Bova 
Evan Sundwick 
Eli Pousson 
J.T. Trollman 
Bridget Lewis 
J.F.P. Auwaerter 
Franklin Williams
Cover by Bridget Lewis.
The Tartan
Box 1017
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15289-1017
www.thetartan.org
J.T. Trollman/Photo Editor
Keeping Cozy: Junior psychology major Mariesa Cash inspects one of the gutted 80s-kitch 
Popple dolls that adorned the doors of the UC last week.
Ouii"mBC 26 koeFo,0 2004.
, i w v  r Vwc 

---------------------------------------------------

Bonds
The Zebra Lounge helps drama students break free
Pray for Nigeria. This echoes out the last 
words of the play Bonds, written and directed by 
Sola Fasehun. Staged at the Zebra Lounge and 
set in a Nigerian jail cell in the spring of 1993, 
the play centers around an African-American 
exchange student, Lara Lafe (Ann Flanigan), 
jailed for demonstrating against the Nigerian 
government dictatorship.
In this decrepit jail cell, with a hole in the 
ground serving as the only lavatory, the 20-yearold Lara meets Mrs. Obi (Christina Acosta), an 
older Nigerian woman who has spent a number 
of her recent years in prison for the political 
activities of her executed husband. The interac
tion between Lara and Mrs. Obi is less than cor
dial. The cultural differences between the two 
women lead to contempt and quarrelsome 
behavior which reaches its crescendo when they 
have to be broken apart by the prison guards 
(Kofi Darkwa and Brian Orr).
Another prisoner, Yinki (Kami Smith), is 
brought in badly beaten, a product of the 
Nigerian extra-legal system. Mrs. Obi recognizes 
the wounded Yinki as a former friend and the 
wife of the man who betrayed her husband. 
Flying into a rage, Mrs. Obi attempts to beat 
Yinki to death with the only thing that is avail
able to her, Laras inhaler, breaking it in the 
process. This act foreshadows Laras asthma 
flare up due to the stress of her imprisonment, 
her quarrels with Mrs. Obi, and the confronta
tion between Mrs. Obi and Yinki.
lawyer, freeing Lara proves impossible because 
she had unwittingly signed a confession of trea
son written in the native language. Upon realiz
ing that she may never leave the prison, Lara has 
an emotional breakdown that is followed by an 
asthma attack, her last.
Bonds proves to be a finely acted and wellwritten play. African drums played by Herb 
Miller and Brandon Paluzzi help to set a gen
uinely African ambience and serve as tools for 
scene transitions. The design of the Zebra 
Lounge, with the zebra-striped chairs, adds to a 
similarly African atmosphere.
Bonds certainly attempts to deal with multiple 
issues that continue to affect parts of Africa 
today. Freedom unmistakably takes a front seat. 
Laras last few words include the powerful 
phrase, If I cant be free, Id rather die. All 
three women are bonded together through suf
fering and the common desire for freedom.
Tribal strife is presented as the key to the 
oppressive political system. Although somewhat 
under-explored, the connection between power 
and tribal dominance is there. The play can be 
forgiven for skirting this issue due to its enor
mous complexity.
Bonds shows a snapshot of the world that 
Americans are unaccustomed to, a world with
out freedom, where the law of powerful men 
rather than the power of law takes precedence.
Despite efforts by Kenneth Dune (Darren 
Canady), an American Consulate
J.T. Trollman/Photo Editor
Despite their emotional rollercoaster, Mrs. 
Obi and Yinki put aside their antagonism in an 
attempt to help Lara avoid another asthma 
attack. Desperate for an inhaler, Mrs. Obi even 
sacrifices dignity and provides her body to one 
of the guards in exchange for a new inhaler that 
never materializes. The guard plays dumb to 
ever agreeing to get one.
LFJw ',303oemD2Ju9 
kFeum, NloRRD,ulw,
Ann Flanigan and Darren Canady converse in a scene from Bonds, in the Zebra Lounge.
CARNEGIE ALAAANAC
50 YEARS AGO
50 years ago  January 19, 1954
Dean Edith Alexander of Margaret Morrison College found herself 
swamped with admission candidates because of an unusually high 
100 applications already received for incoming students and 
another dozen transfer applications. Each of the prospective stu
dents required a personal interview with Alexander, causing mass 
gridlock in the colleges admissions process.
25 YEARS AGO
25 years ago  January 30, 1979
The Tartan continued its examination of ventilation facilities in 
laboratories, focusing on art studios. Due to improper disposal of 
solvents, poor welding technique, and misaligned fans, sculpture 
facilities in particular were subject to foul and nauseating stench
es. Shortly thereafter, the office of CIT Dean Herb Toor and the 
physical plant reevaluated safety in Doherty Hall.
10 YEARS AGO
10 years ago  January 24, 1994
Following the declaration of a state of emergency by Pennsylvania 
Governor Bob Casey and a plea from Duquesne Light to conserve 
power, University President Mehrabian closed campus from 2 pm 
Wednesday until Friday morning. Record low temperatures  22 
degrees below zero was recorded at the airport  were the prime 
cause of the first unscheduled multi-day closure in University his
tory.
5 YEARS AGO
5 years ago  January 25, 1999
The University continued negotiations for a deal with Port 
Authority Transit (PAT) allowing students unlimited bus usage 
similar to the deal the University of Pittsburgh struck with PAT 
several years earlier. PAT's concerns included student use 
beyond the value of the Universitys flat fee and and PATs 
inability to renegotiate as often as with Pitt.
1 YEAR AGO
1 year ago  January 27, 2003
Several thousand Pittsburgh residents and visitors gathered 
in front of the Software Engineering Institute to protest the 
impending war action in the Middle East. Organized by the 
Thomas Merton Center, the permitted rally got national atten
tion via a credible threat on President Bushs life. Several 
other anti-war protest actions soon followed on both the 
Carnegie Mellon and Pitt campuses.
1so. n,wwe"w,r9 Wm,F. ysulm,
rL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Behold the human form
A new, multi-part exhibit reaches Pittsburgh
A presentation on the artistic representation of the human form was opened at 
the Pittsburgh Center for the Arts last Saturday. The small, cleanly lit gallery is 
currently featuring a series of works by the Craftsmens Guild of Pittsburgh. The 
series features everything from oil paintings to ceramics and photography. The 
lecture consisted of three local artists, each presenting his unique approach to the 
human figure. A large crowd attended, many of whom have taken art classes from 
the lecturing artists. The first artist, Duncan MacDiarmid, is a sculptor who works 
primarily with terracotta. His series, Landscape Figures, contains four statues of 
human beings, integrated with natural imagery. One of the most fluid and beau
tiful pieces, Orchid Blossom, is a statue of a woman emerging from a mass of 
swirling drapery, reminiscent of one of Georgia OKeefes floral abstractions. 
Interestingly, MacDiarmid does all of his sculpture without the use of models. 
The pose of the figure comes out of a concept, he said. The tone of the piece dic
tates the shape, stance, and gesture of the figure.
The next series was a two-room exhibit of paintings, charcoal drawings, and 
collage by Patricia Barefoot called Anatomy-Autonomy. Barefoot explained that 
her work was centered on the theme of womanhood and the persistence of the 
memories that are inextricably linked to the feminine. There is nothing more per
manent in the mind than the memory of the mother and the grandmother and so 
on, said Barefoot. Some of her works are the size of entire walls, while others are 
only the size of a notebook. Much of her work has a distinctly dark and gothic fla
vor, depicting skeletons and using bits of old wallpaper.
Barefoot even has a collage constructed from old medical records. Her message 
is not one of hopelessness or mortality, however. Rather, she is trying to convey 
the importance of the internal as well as the external, and to remind women that 
they all share the same basic internal anatomy.
Perhaps the most stunning portion of the exhibit is Richard Clerevals collection 
of carved Styrofoam sculptures. In his work, human figures and abstract shapes 
painted violent shades of blue and orange seem to defy gravity, emerging from the 
canvas-lined walls and floor. Clereval made his sculptures using industrial-sized 
blocks of Styrofoam and a hot wire tool. He painted everything with house paint, 
creating a surface texture similar to plaster. The hair of his sculptures was created 
using spackle. The artist noted that working with Styrofoam is dangerous, as it 
gives off noxious fumes. I wore a respirator at all times, he said. Clereval stated 
that he intended to portray the positive aspects of life and human potential. His 
fluid work conveys the idea that man is one with nature. The exhibit, which uses 
every inch of the small room, is reminiscent of a giant, living comic book. 
Startlingly realistic figures disappear and reappear into a 
swirling vortex of color. The overall effect is almost like a 
psychedelic version of Michelangelos The Creation of 
Adam. Upon entering the exhibit, many of the viewers 
gasped in disbelief.
The works will be exhibited until March 14. Admission 
is free. The museum is open from 10:00 am until 5:30 pm 
Monday through Saturday, and 12:00 noon until 5:00 
pm on Sundays. The Pittsburgh Center for the Arts 
is located at 6300 Fifth Avenue. For more 
information, call 412.361.0873.
mii0 412Yoe9 
NloRRD,ulw,
HOROSCOPES
BY DINAH WiNNICK
ARIES (March 21April 19): You will pass someone familiar on the sidewalk tomorrow, 
unsure of how you know each other and if you are close enough to acknowledge each 
others presence, finally deciding that a nod and brief eye contact would have been appro
priate two minutes after the awkward encounter has passed.
TAURUS (April 20May 20): You may think its pure luck that the sci-fi and romance 
paperback sections are next to each other in the library, but the truth is, you are not alone 
in your secret book preference or image concerns. The sooner you come to terms with that, 
the faster you and your librarian can form a warm, trusting relationship.
GEMINI (May 21June 21): After going out on the town 
with Myrtle and Edna Wednesday night, you will find that 
you do not have much natural bingo skill. Just think of it as 
using your lack of gaming ability to financially contribute to 
the religious center of your choice, in addition to having a 
good ol time with the ladies.
CANCER (June 22July 22): Your car may be impounded 
today, but just think of how good your not being able to 
afford bailing it out or paying your overdue parking tickets 
will be for the environment in the long run.
LEO (July 23August 22): After finally starting on that pile of dishes in your kitchen sink, 
you will discover a brightly speckled amphibian thought to have been extinct for the last 
52 years. After notifying the authorities, you will also discover that in the right light, the 
remains of a Salisbury steak TV dinner can look like just about anything.
VIRGO (August 23September 22): Attempting to carry over 
17 concealed bottles of water after a school-catered event may 
result in back and knee injuries if not executed with care and 
a sturdy, neutral-colored, non-suspicious-looking sack.
LIBRA (September 23October 23): Making friends with liter
ate people in faraway places will be much more effective at 
increasing your feelings of self-worth than your weekly selfaddressed gift-wrapped Amazon.com shipment.
SCORPIO (October 2ANovember 21): While you are sure it is 
neither their fault nor intention, you will not be able to help 
cursing the clouds for making you seasick with their speedy toand-fro movement across the sky while you try to appreciate the 
natural urban landscape.
Laura Semesky/Art Staff
SAGITTARIUS (November 22December 21): Your life may seem depressing now, but 
look closer and you will see a faint glimmer of happiness and hope. If you cannot see this, 
you may be going blind and should seek the care of a medical professional immediately.
CAPRICORN (December 22January 19): You will reach an impasse in your internal 
struggle for identity, torn between your love of vintage polyester and your longing for 
breathable organic cotton knits.
AQUARIUS (January 20February 18): Focusing on impor
tant short-term goals such as putting on shoes and brushing 
teeth will improve your sense of accomplishment more than 
worrying about things like food, shelter, and companionship, 
which you cant really help anyway.
PISCES (February 19March 20): That letter "your friend" 
is planning to send to your local papers advice columnist 
may contain a few too many personal details. I urge your 
friend to rewrite this letter to avoid the extreme prolonged 
social awkwardness that will surely ensue following its pub
lication.
Bum Lee/Art Staff
4rL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004

---------------------------------------------------

Big Als Metal Shop
Back to basics with Fireball Ministry
Fireball Ministry
The Second Great Awakening
Nuclear Blast
Rock and roll, in its constant quest for reinvention, 
seems blissfully unaware of its past. Whether its the 
Stripes or the White Strokes, the latest champion of 
the ironic contrary hipster set is simply watered down 
AC/DC played in a tin can. Really. And the image aint 
so bad-ass anymore either.
So, whats a meat eatin, chest thumpin, truck-drivin college student to do when he needs his fix of 
rock?
Well, first off, check out a band called Motorhead, 
then fast-forward a quarter century or so to Kyuss 
(which begat Queens of the Stone Age), Fu Manchu, 
and Nashville Pussy, to name a few. Youll get a much 
clearer vision of the real (r) evolution in rock this way. 
Once youve scratched that itch, grab a bottle of sour 
mash and a copy of Fireball Ministrys latest.
Their disc has been sitting with me for a while now. 
The first couple of spins didnt push too many of my 
buttons. The Second Great Awakening starts off nicely, 
with a Hellion-style intro that segues into an Appetiteera Guns n Roses backbeat.
In fact, the band grooves and oozes whiskeydrenched sleaze. Yet when James Rotas voice kicks in,
something doesnt seem right  its powerful, but also 
too ... nice. Maybe its because Ive been weaned on 
Axl Rose and Vince Neil, but I dont sense the danger 
or presence in Rotas voice.
Mind you, a bottle of Jack Daniels can add to the 
danger quotient quite nicely. If there is no danger in 
the music, well, hell, create some!
Get a couple of your closest girlfriends together, 
push the loveseat up to the couch, and draw the 
shades. Then put this album on. Just turn the vox 
down a little lower on your receiver, and turn the bass 
up. Trust me, not only will the ladies love you, but the 
whole neighborhood will be knocking at your door, 
just begging to get in.
While youre being dragged off by the local sheriff, 
youll be content knowing that rock and roll has some 
players left in its ranks, not just pretenders. Hey, you 
may even dig this guys voice  it kinda grows on me, 
even as I type with him in between my ears.
All things considered, you will love this album for 
the dirty rhythm section, the guitar solos, and the 
sheer musicianship theyre played with. Awakening 
may not be the Second Coming of Hard Rock, but its 
a step in the right direction.
1i"w,l gmYwe 
Nweum, NloRR
Fireball Ministry kicks out the jams hardcore style.
Digging thru the
Action B-movie double feature
Night of the Juggler
The premise is simple: a sociopathic, racist, Oedipal 
pedophile mistakenly kidnaps the young daughter of a 
NYPD cop turned truck driver. Okay, so the plot is a 
little confusing. But Night of the Juggler is the epitome 
of the low-budget New York City street film. The 
movie is essentially one giant chase across NYC. In an 
incredible 15-minute scene, ex-cop Sean Boyd chases 
his daughter and her kidnapper across Manhattan, 
going from foot to taxi to subway to car.
The film takes place over 14 hours on a hot summer 
day, starting at sunrise and finishing before 10 pm.
The filmmakers exert no effort to counteract nature; 
when the sun is bright the film is overexposed, and 
footage at night is nearly black. But this style only 
enhances the anxiety inherent in the plot and the New 
York City setting of 1980. Juggler also contains social 
commentary on racial violence, police corruption, the 
misuse of wealth, and child abduction.
vaults:
Night of the Juggler is a true B-movie: exciting action, 
poor cinematography, half-baked acting, and engag
ing social reflection. Settings include busy Manhattan 
streets, the old porno district which ran through 
Times Square, crowded subways, and a striking vision 
of the decaying South Bronx. Good luck finding a 
DVD copy of Night of the Juggler the film has been 
out of circulation for many years. However, a dedicat
ed B-movie maniac may be able to dig up a used VHS 
copy for sale on the Internet.
Good Guys Wear Black
Chuck Norris is Major John T. Booker, a CIA operative 
during the Vietnam War who later settles down in 
Riverside, California to test-drive race cars and pursue 
a doctorate degree in political science. This plan is 
nixed early on as a mysterious and beautiful woman 
named Margaret shows up with more answers than 
questions about Bookers involvement as a Black Tiger 
CIA operative. A chain of events is set in motion as
Booker races across the United States to stop the 
assassination of the surviving Black Tigers.
The film voices its opinion on the Vietnam War as 
Norris character comments: It was a war that never 
should have begun, in a country we never should have 
entered. This message is carried throughout the film, 
as the villain turns out to be a Washington D.C. diplo
mat who arranged for the sacrifice of the Black Tigers 
as a bargaining chip. Aside from intriguing social 
commentary, the film has fantastic B-movie trappings, 
including martial arts action, dated cinematography, 
and a sexy female lead.
Its unfair to call Good Guys Wear Black a true 
B-movie. Its more like an A-, or maybe a B+. The 
crowning jewel of Good Guys would be the excessive 
number of extreme stunts, including jump-kicking 
through a windshield, snowmobiling, an airplane 
explosion, and driving a car into the Chesapeake Bay. 
Good Guys Wear Black is still available as a discount 
DVD that was released two years ago, but it may be 
difficult to come by.
Vu4J o,uem9 
gm.u42 NloRR
rL00ngs pl w4at4ud pccos

---------------------------------------------------

The diversity of worship
Religious organizations offer students more than just prayer
Carnegie Mellon University is not a 
religious affiliated campus. It attracts 
students from all over the U.S., as well 
as a significant international popula
tion. Culturally and religiously based 
organizations  students are sure to 
notice the multiple fliers announcing 
events sponsored by religious groups, 
such as Agapes announcements in 
Porter Hall or those on the chapel bul
letin board in the UC. Some of the most 
popular religions are represented by 
several groups around campus; some 
groups are not strictiy based on the 
denomination they represent, and oth
ers are much more focused on a purely 
religious message. A Jewish group, 
Hillel, is not only religious but also cul
tural in nature.
Daniel Marcus, assistant director of 
the center, described the center as 
offering opportunities to practice if 
[students] wish. However, the overall 
theme of religious organizations, or cul
tural groups with religious affiliations, 
is to facilitate an environment for stu
dents to associate with others who 
share their interests. Most groups pro
vide opportunities for students simply
to come and converse with one another. 
There are so many chances to be around 
people from similar backgrounds, or to 
learn of cultures and religions that were 
previously unknown, that it seems like a 
marvelous setting for an enterprising 
student who wishes to gain experience 
in such a way.
Students may want to join a group to 
meet their spiritual needs. Some stu
dents may take advantage of all the 
facets of a religious organization, or 
only attend speeches or worship times 
occasionally. The choice is up to the 
individual.
Christian organizations have a wider 
variety at CMU than any other religious 
denomination; there are at least ten 
such associations on or around campus. 
The Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship 
(IVCF) is but one of these groups. Eli 
Marsh, a junior mechanical engineering 
major, became involved in IVCF during 
a sleeping bag weekend before the start 
of his freshman year, where he spent 
time with members of the group and 
even took the Fence with them. His 
involvement grew over the years, and
he is now president of the organiza
tions CMU chapter. IVCF is a nondenominational group, accepting those 
who practice any variety of Christianity. 
Marsh noted how often IVCF is mistak
en for a sports organization because of 
its tide. The Inter-Varsity in IVCF simply 
means that the group spans several col
lege level institutions. IVCF provides 
students with both large and small 
group events. Some events involving 
close contact with a few people include 
Habitat for Humanity and Bible study 
groups, while larger numbers of stu
dents gather for revival prayer once a 
week as well as for worship. Marsh said 
that one of the main purposes of IVCF is 
to nurture Christians who are already 
here on campus. For Grete Bauder, a 
junior in communication design, the 
nurturing of students has given him 
memorable experiences as the missions 
coordinator at IVCF, one of several posi
tions he holds there.
The most rewarding experience is 
definitely being able to see my friends 
growing as people. It is amazing to see 
how peoples views and actions change 
when they decide to know [God 
more], said Bauder.
Bauder and Marsh have both been 
involved in the organization since their 
first year, and it seems that they will 
likely stay in contact with IVCF after 
graduation. Newsletters and an alumni 
coordinator help members of the group 
continue to communicate even after 
they have left college, according to 
Marsh.
While students remain at CMU they 
will have opportunities to take trips, 
discuss in groups, or simply learn more 
about Christianity. Likewise, other reli
gious organizations provide similar 
environments for anyone who may have 
interest. Specifically, at IVCF, there is 
more than just worship involved; it has 
a great amount to do with service and 
the participation of students in an envi
ronment where they can meet people 
with common interests.
Bauder spoke of some of the benefits 
of his participation, which were not 
strictly limited to the religious aspects
inherent to IVCF, saying, Its also great 
to have a network of people that you 
know are there for you when things are 
rough, and to be able to get away from 
the worries of life and just talk, learn, 
and pray on retreats.
Retreats and other mission-type expe
riences make up a significant part of 
IVCF. Marsh explained an event tided 
Urban Plunge which took students to 
a poor downtown neighborhood in 
Chicago to live for several days. 
Members helped work with the hungry 
and did other related activities in the 
community. Other functions that allow 
IVCF members to live together for a 
time include the Bible chapter focus 
weeks.
I also have mad fun during chapter 
focus week, at the end of spring semes
ter, where I get to go jumping in cold 
lakes  and pushing people into them
 and walking in the woods and am 
able to spend time praying and listen
ing, said Bauder, relating some of the 
organizations programs he enjoys 
most.
Christians on campus can be thankful 
for the many organizations that cater to 
different needs. IVCF is just one option. 
Students who are Christian or other
wise interested in Christianity have a 
variety of choices when it comes to 
choosing a group with which to affiliate 
themsevles. All religious or religiouslyaffiliated groups, however, wish to 
build strong relationships among the 
students represented. Marsh men
tioned that though IVCF has a commit
ment to service, the main goal of the 
organization is to build a Christian com
munity.
Similarly, Daniel Marcus emphasized 
the need to build communities as an 
essential part of Hillels mission. 
Marcus, the assistant director of the 
center, is different from leaders in other 
organizations in that he is not a student, 
but works at Hillel as his profession. He 
hails from London, but lived in Israel for 
a time before coming to the U.S. and 
eventually getting a job with Hillel. 
Despite having full-time employees, it 
does have a CMU student board to help 
give the students a voice in Hillel.
Courtesy of Eli Marsh
The many merry members of Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship pose at the fall harvest retreat last 
semester. IVCF holds several similar events throughout the course of the school year.
rL00ngs 26 January 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

According to Marcus, one of the 
main focuses of Hillel is to identify the 
needs of Jewish students on campus and 
building communities to help fulfill 
those needs. Hillel, like IVCF, offers a 
great variety of activities during the 
semester. Naturally, the center offers 
services during all Jewish holidays as 
well as weekly Shabbat services.
These cultural programs, said 
Marcus, will always be a part of our cal
endar. In addition, Hillel allows stu
dents to join various groups of discus
sion on religious or Jewish culture top
ics.
Weekly, the organization features 
something called Lets Play in Hebrew, 
described by Marcus as learning a lan
guage from everyday fun. Students go 
into real-life situations, such as shop
ping at a supermarket, and learn 
Hebrew words for what they see and do 
on these short trips.
Carnegie Mellon students who partic
ipate in Hillel events also have the 
chance to travel abroad. Deena Zytnick, 
a first-year student in H&SS, spoke of 
her experiences.
Hillel provided me the opportunity to 
go to Israel this past winter break. The 
trip was absolutely unforgettable, said 
Zytnick. Zytnicks connection to Hillel 
lies in her internship as a promoter for
the Jewish comedy show Not Quite 
Kosher, which features Al Franken and 
comes to Pittsburgh in February. Hillel 
provides a range of events comprising 
everything from weekly religious servic
es to sponsorship in going abroad.
Marcus stressed the importance of 
building relationships among Jewish 
students, which has a close correlation 
to the mantra for Hillel.
[Our purpose is] to engage and 
empower the students, said Marcus. 
Zytnick seems to agree that the organi
zation has allowed her to be a part of a 
community.
I began by going to a few Hillel events 
where I started meeting people, said 
Zytnick, as she outlined why students 
should get involved in groups of this 
type.
The more events I went to, the more 
people I met. Eventually, the people I 
met became my friends. Whenever I go 
to Hillel, I feel such a sense of communi
ty; in addition to being among friends, 
there is a religious connection that 
bonds us together. For me, Hillel is a 
place where I feel I belong. Zytnick 
indicates that the time she has spent at 
the center, though short, has been valu
able in many ways.
The striking similarities between IVCF
and Hillel only go to show that though 
these are diverse groups, they both work 
for the students, hoping to bring them 
closer to their roots, whether those roots 
are cultural, religious, or a mixture of 
both. Marsh, Bauder, and Zyntick all 
made meaningful relationships while at 
IVCF or Hillel. The nature of the organi
zations brings people who share a need 
or desire; bonds are forged quickly 
between members. At Hillel, according 
to Marcus, members can just relax 
together in the centers lounge. As for 
IVCF, though there perhaps is more 
structure in the events, there is evidence 
of a close bond.
First and foremost a fellowship is a 
group of friends who want to support 
each other in living life centered around 
God, said Bauder. The students inter
viewed had a strong bond with the 
group and had developed bonds with 
group members, making Hillels and 
IVCFs goals seem quite achievable.
The great variety of such groups 
offered on campus makes them attrac
tive to people with varied interests. 
Some students may be uncomfortable 
with such organizations because they 
feel the group requires some large com
mitment that they are highly unlikely to 
embrace. But some will pursue an inter
est in a religious or religious affiliated 
group and enjoy their involvements. The 
groups can be purely religious, but
social also, as Bauder stated, Theres 
nothing too religious or too commit
ting about hanging out with your 
friends.
CMU has a wealth of opportunities 
waiting for interested students to 
approach. Students who even suspect 
that they could gain joy from this should 
look hard at the evidence of pleased 
members in the past, and through their 
intuition decide if this is applicable to 
them or not.
The examples of a Christian organiza
tion and a Jewish religious and cultural 
organization are places to gain fresh 
experiences, but they are only two such 
examples. Hence, there is more to come; 
next weeks feature will discuss the rep
resentation of other organizations on 
campus, hoping to show an even greater 
variety of what is available.
u4Ywiiw C 6mfo9 
buii"mB gmIysulm,
Evan Sundwick contributed to this article.
The 
Fajita Grill
5865 Ellsworth Ave. 
Shadyside, PA 
412-362-3030
STUDENTS!
Receive a 10% discount on your meal 
when you show your CMU ID at
-TP-M ___    j______xN 11The Fajita Grill
Offering 
Authentic Mexican 
Cuisine 
with
Contemporary Flair
Burritos, Enchiladas, Tinga, Fajitas, 
Other Regional Mexican Dishes
Some conditions and restrictions apply. Ask server for details.
rL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004.7

---------------------------------------------------

film.
Film of fortune
Crossing Borders/ the Modern Language film festival, kicks off with a film about the dark side of good luck
Tuesday night ... is anything much going on? Not 
usually, perhaps, but as of this semester, Carnegie 
Mellon does have something to offer for this generally 
boring day of the week. The first annual Modern 
Languages International Film Festival screened the 
first film of its series last Tuesday.
Three languages out of the seven offered at CMU 
will be represented  Chinese, French, and Spanish
 though each is subtitled in English. The films have 
the advantage of being recent ones; none were pro
duced before 1999. The festivals title, Crossing 
Borders, is ambiguous, as it needed to be based on 
the variety of the movies. Paz Marcias-Fernandez, a 
member of the modem languages department who 
helped organize the festival, described Crossing 
Borders as portraying the passage from national to 
global, but also mentioned that the films show transi
tions in issues of gender and age.
Marcias-Fernandez spoke of the great need for the 
film festival because she felt that not enough opportu
nities are available to the diverse students on campus 
to experience something from another culture. 
Marcias-Fernandez is from Seville, and noted that her 
connections there helped her in gaining rights to the 
films that are from Spain.
A few years ago, French in the Afternoon was a 
similar program to the film festival, but not one that 
bridged several languages. Now Crossing Borders 
has allowed exposure to films from several countries. 
Along with the need for this type of program, MarciasFernandez stated that the modern language profes
sors and others who helped bring the festival to cam
pus ... believe in this mission that this university has 
of celebrating diversity.
Intacto, the first film of the semester, certainly tra
versed many lines, going between the real and the 
everyday to the bizarre and crossing the borders 
between what is possible and improbable. Intacto, 
which was produced in 2001 in Spain, played with the 
popular belief that some people are naturally luckier 
than others. The film took this idea to the extreme, 
portraying a young man (Toms) as the sole survivor 
of a plane crash. Toms has a supernatural power to 
steal peoples luck simply by touching them or being 
near them. Played by Leonardo Sbaraglia, Toms goes 
on a wild journey with Federico (Eusebio Poncela), a 
mysterious man who used to work for the luckiest 
man in the world.
Intacto has a lot of plot switches at the beginning 
that never seem to resolve themselves totally. 
Federico, for example, was once under the wing of a 
concentration camp escapee named Samuel (Max von 
Sydow), but his employer took his power of good luck 
from him when Federico and Samuel parted ways. 
The plot goes from the beaten Federico on the road
side to the bloody post-plane-crash Toms, introduc
ing elements of the surreal as one man seems to blend 
into the other. The surreal elements continue when 
Federico demands that Toms play games of chance 
for him in order to escape from the police who discov
ered he had robbed a bank before the plane crash. 
Continuing to introduce new characters rapidly, the 
film shows a police investigator named Sara (Monica 
Lpez) who quickly becomes obsessed with finding
Toms once he disappears from the hospital.
Intacto continues to be wild and twisted; viewers see 
Toms play every variety of game, each increasingly 
more deadly. The film is full of sinister and mystical 
elements, suggesting that a mere photograph of a per
son can give the luck of that person to its possessor. Its 
portrayal of the games in which Toms, and later Sara 
(who discovers she has the same power as he), partic
ipate is well done. There is a proper balance during 
the scenes of the games of the warped underworld 
elements and the exhilaration of winning.
Saras search for Toms seems forced, even though 
the audience would feel that her wish to connect with 
a man who shares her fate as a luck stealer is justi
fied; it seems that she puts herself into ridiculous 
amounts of trouble to get to him. After all, she allows 
Alejandro (Antonio Dechent), the luck-obsessed bull
fighter, to place her in the same situations as Toms, 
despite the fact that one would think she could track 
him on her own.
The film is interesting as it examines the concept of 
luck and whether it is an item that can be exchanged. 
It is also well acted by vibrant characters, especially 
Sara. However, for the suspenseful film it could have 
been, Intacto drags through long scenes that could 
have potentially caused edge of the seat moments.
Fortunately, Intacto is beneficial for its cultural com
mentary. Though, as Marcias-Fernandez mentions, 
some of the elements in the film could have taken 
place in any country, the film exhibits a unique per
spective of fortune. It addresses the topics of despera
tion, as well as the obsession with winning in a distincdy different manner than an American film might; 
success holds a darker consequence and love causes 
extreme risk and torment.
For those who find themselves staring blankly at the 
cinder block walls on Tuesday nights, the Modern 
Language International Film Festival Crossing 
Borders is a definite proposal for something to do. It 
will undoubtedly give new perspectives on foreign 
cultures to students, showing them, as MarciasFernandez said, that language and culture are to be 
integrated rather than separate.
All films during the festival are shown in McConomy 
Auditorium free of charge. A full schedule and 
description of films being shown can be found at 
http://ml. hss. emu. edu/mJ/specialevents/films. html or 
call 412.268.5149 for more information.
u4Ywiiw C 6mfo 
buii"mB gmIysulm,
OrL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

What is it good for?
The Pittsburgh Independent Media Center releases a new anti-war documentary
As coverage of the war in Iraq continues to fight for 
airtime in the mainstream media, and as near-daily 
White House press conferences combat the bad news, 
finding avenues to voice an opinion on the issue may 
seem difficult for the ordinary concerned person.
While some waver amidst the complexity of the 
issue, a film by the Pittsburgh Independent Media 
Center recentiy demonstrated that a large number of 
citizens have already considered the issue and made 
up their mind.
Attracting a mix of students, activists, and locals, 
the organizations latest work, Pittsburgh Anti-War 
Convergence, was presented on January 25 in Porter 
Hall. The entire documentary, a composite of approx
imately ten segments lasting about an hour long, 
recorded the citys anti-war demonstrations of last 
year.
We had the largest Pittsburgh anti-war demonstra
tions since Vietnam, and the media dedicated thirty 
seconds to a minute on the evening news, said 
Quentin Steenhuis, a senior in logic and computation 
and political science. The Independent Media Center 
is providing a way for voices that are obscured by the 
corporate media to make it out there. Steenhuis was 
one of the two members, alongside senior computer 
science and history major Matthew Toups, responsi
ble for the production of the film.
The documentary opened quiedy, as the image of 
falling snow hit the screen, introducing the viewer to 
the first protest documented in the film, which took 
place on January 24, 2003. Shots of gathering crowds 
were accompanied by clips of Justin Sane, of the local 
band Anti-Flag, shouting his version of This Land is 
My Land.
The documentary, devoted to the demonstrations 
before the start of the invasion, provided an inside 
look at the anti-war movement in Pittsburgh. The dis
tinct Pittsburgh feel was very apparent, as in clips 
where black-and-yellow-suited protesters waved signs 
like, Make touchdowns  not war, and What 
would Jerome Bettis Do?
Much of the documentary focused on the serious
ness of the issue, with perspectives ranging from 
those of academic scholars to those of politicians to 
those of regular citizens. As the clips evidence, anti
war demonstrations covered a spectrum of opinions, 
from the assertion that war is hell by General 
William Tecumseh Sherman to the words of 
University of Pittsburgh professor Ken Boas, who 
warned that the war would destabilize the region.
The Indy Media Center is presenting the viewpoint 
from inside the activist movement, which will be ultiI IPsychology alum Sarah Sandusky was present at the 2002 protests 
in Washington, DC.
mately used perhaps to show our side to the main
stream. The film is not just for our little group, but for 
all around the country and the world to see, 
University of Pittsburgh student Gwendolyn Schmidt 
said.
Activist and Pittsburgh Organizing Group member 
David Meieran holds out the same hope for independ
ent media. In the video activism that we do, were 
allowed a more expanded representation of activism. 
The important thing is critical thinking, for people to 
reach their own conclusions on the truth.
Some of the last footage of the film presented the 
well-known March 20 protest, as the erratic camera
work followed confrontations between protesters and 
police officers, which led to over one hundred arrests. 
The sequence included a clip of local television cover
age of the event in which a reporter labeled the 
protest a full-scale riot, which generated some clam
or among the audience.
I was at that march, when all the arrests happened. 
Maybe the protesters should have broken up a little 
sooner, but the way the police responded was unfore
seen and in my opinion excessive, commented recent 
CMU graduate Chris Messina, who worked as an 
ACLU monitor at the protest. [The film] is really 
important  making people realize that there a lot of 
things that go on behind the scenes that dont get
reported in the mainstream media.
Another viewer, a recent CMU masters alumnus, 
also commented the significance of the film. Though 
there was a bit of self-aggrandizement, I thought [the 
film] was really interesting because it offered a differ
ent perspective, one that you dont see all the time.
Indeed, the crowd at Saturday nights screening was 
as seemingly active as their on-screen counterparts, 
laughing and even snickering in response to several 
portions of the film. One clip, in particular, was of a 
radio DJ lambasting the protesters, calling them 
Marxists and anarchists, after reports of minor 
vandalism during one of the protests. A laugh, per
haps charged with cynicism, was heard during a clip 
from a March 16 anti-war picnic, when a singer per
forming among the crowd sung, We have more in 
common with the people we are fighting than the 
people we are fighting for!
Passing shots of Kirr Commons and the exterior of 
the University Center brought smiles to the faces of 
some in the audience, reminding them of the January
26 protest.
Its a big contrast to go to CMU and be active in an 
anti-war movement, when I see so many people 
around me who are apathetic, Steenhuis said. I 
would encourage people to get involved in organiza
tions around campus, but also to step off campus to 
get involved. Its really been an important part of my 
time here at CMU.
Even more, as Toups suggests, simply protesting is 
incomplete, advocating the need for a diverse set of 
actions.
We are all in the process of learning how were 
going to change the world, and I encourage everyone 
to take part in that process. Figure out whatever it is 
that you are good at  if youre good at writing, 
speaking, painting, or singing  then do that. And 
then maybe well get somewhere.
F2loRo 'Yoe9 
kFeum, NloRRD,ulw,
rL00ngs 26 January 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

Deserving of the Spotlight
Dance/Light Festival contains marvelous performances from all facets of dance and production
J.T. Trollman/Photo Editor
Various Orbits at the Dance/Light Festival, choreographed by Coral Compagnoni
Some students here at CMU might be surprised to 
find out that technical courses are not the only ones to 
have projects. Dance majors, costume designers, and 
lighting majors also have the chance to come together, 
join forces, and put on a show. You can call it a collab
orative project, if you want to get technical, but that 
sounds boring.
CMU is known to have supportive faculty, interdisci
plinary collaboration, and hands-on career develop
ment and teaching. So it shouldnt surprise anyone 
that the school of drama has its own special project 
that combines all of those aspects that set apart CMU
classes from those of other schools.
Not only is it cross-option, cross-campus, its a 
chance for us to work with different people who have 
had classes ahead of you. [There are] freshmen, soph
omores, juniors, and seniors all working together, 
said Alyson Blume, a junior drama major.
It ties into what the world of the performing arts is 
about. The world is not done in an isolated place. We 
have to work as a team. Whether a student decides to 
be a choreographer doesnt make a difference. They 
come as an audience member to observe how this
team effort comes together. Its part of the animal of 
working in the theatre ... light, dance, costume. Now 
we will come together as a team. It fosters learning 
how to work in a positive team effort to one end, said 
Judith Conte, a faculty advisor.
[Collaboration] is what makes it so great. Whats 
so great about this is that we can come up with a 
dance, and then we can hear from the costume and 
lighting designer, and the idea might be switched, 
might be tweaked, and their lighting design might be 
switched and changed. Three coming together to 
make a final project, said Stephen Schellhardt, a
10
rL00ngs 26 January 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

junior drama major, another one of the performers.
For some, the show is merely another project for a 
class; for others, it is a choice. Dance/Light is part of 
the required coursework for the students in Lighting II 
and Costume Design II, both composed of seniors and 
second-year graduate students. However, the other 
majors in the school of drama are not required to take 
part in this project. For all students involved in 
Dance/Light, its an opportunity to have fun.
[Its] one of the things you look forward to. Its an 
extra opportunity to dance.... Its [an] extracurricular 
activity, stated Ann Wood, a senior drama major.
This is the only place where designers can dance in 
it, a director can be a choreographer, lighting design
ers can be dancers in it as well as design, Schellhardt 
added.
This is the only project in drama where teachers 
encourage other majors to try their hand at different 
roles. It is not odd to see a directing major twirl 
around on stage in this project, nor is it odd to see a 
costume design major in the playbill as choreogra
pher.
Were not only using dancers from the school of 
drama. There are four or five [students] that are non
drama that are dancing in it just because they want 
to, said Schellhardt.
That diversity has not reached all of the dimensions.
At the moment, it never has gotten big enough and 
got enough exposure. It has stayed that choreogra
phers are drama students who have submitted pro
posals, said Conte. She, however, noted that students 
outside of the school of drama are free to submit pro
posals for Dance/Light.
This years Dance/Light production was composed 
of thirteen eclectic pieces ranging from old-fashioned 
themes to racy, pop-music video stylings that blended 
and enhanced gender roles.
Even with its fair share of boy-meets-girl pieces, 
unique and out-of-the ordinary numbers kept the 
audience guessing what would come next. Original 
music selections and imaginative costume ensembles 
gave it a quasi-fashion-show feel in conjunction with 
glimpses of dance clubs from several different eras.
The lighting designs gave the numbers a profession
al look, while the honed skills of the dancers slaked 
the audiences thirst for a sharp routine. There was 
not a hint of sloppiness amongst the diverse perform
ers in all aspects of their performances.
The thirteen different acts were worthy of much 
larger theater, indicated by the many people who 
were turned away after all the seats were filled. The 
performers and lighting crew had a sense of pride, 
probably enhanced by the seemingly exclusive 
audience.
It seemed to have an invite only5 feel (even though 
anyone can come), and the audience members were 
mostly CFA students or affiliates. The enthusiastic 
audience cheered the performers on as friends and 
colleagues, and responded to each number in turn 
with as much earnest as the performers displayed.
The audience puts in an amazing amount of ener
gy. Our audience is so incredibly supportive. Its 
great, said Susan Heyward, a junior drama major 
and performer.
It all started with lighting design professor Cindy 
Limauro, 16 years ago.
The year after she [Limauro] joined, as she created 
the curriculum, she approached me and she said that 
she would like to do a project that would be just deal
ing with dance. We wanted it to be a practical proj
ect, recounted Conte.
Conte continued, We started by picking a set of 
parameters that we wanted. Short, half a dozen 
pieces, and me and my colleagues would choreograph 
some pieces. We did this for a few years to start to get 
a footprint for the production. We had lighting 
designers. The costume designers came later. We 
would use students as dancers. We started by showing 
to faculty. The student body started to see that this 
would happen and it grew in popularity.
Once we got into the new facility [Purnell] in our 
fourth year, one of the costume design faculty, in his 
syllabus, had a dance project that was slotted in. He 
said, Gee, this might be a good way to have that 
dance project. Their costume students would be 
involved with [dance/light participants] as costume 
consultants, said Conte
So in this way, Dance/Light expanded, collaborat
ed, and cross-pollinated. [The students] start to be 
able to learn each others language and be able to 
share in that creative idea. Instead of a duet, its a tri
angle, Conte continued.
So Dance/Light is a student-run, student-choreographed, student-danced performance. Asking what 
makes this performance different about Dance/Light 
from other student organization-sponsored dance 
productions revealed many unique aspects.
Complexity. [Dance/Light] is a much more sophis
ticated and planned out event. Theres a lot more light 
involved. We have to do pre-prep time. We made sure 
we hung all the lights correctly. Other talent shows 
probably dont involve... as much complexity, said 
Mike Mahlum, second-year graduate drama major.
We have access to different resources. There is so 
much available to us, said Ann Wood, a senior drama 
major.
Drama kids also like to tell stories  and I think 
thats a huge difference from [other shows]. [Other 
shows are] a collection of dancers to show off their 
moves that they can do. Its dance-based choreograJ.T. Trollman/Photo Editor
Zachary Prince in The Tap Lesson/ originally choreo
graphed by Honi Coles and restaged by Prince.
phy, movement-based choreography. In Dance/Light, 
its a lot of story-based choreography. In every piece 
you can make up your own story that goes with it. It 
has a lot more emotion, and a lot more story line than 
other dance shows, said Heyward.
When we are all here together in this building, 
were comfortable with each other. Most of the drama 
kids on stage have had a lot of performance experi
ence. Its the stage presence that communicates with 
the audience. Theres a certain amount of energy and 
presence, that kind of carries through the perform
ers, said Carla Bellisio, senior drama major.
When asked about what audiences can expect in the 
future, Conte replied, Its always a nice surprise. The 
pieces are all different, every year. The skill level can 
be expected to go up each year. The way the culture 
has been going. I believe that physical adroitness has 
become more accepted in our society. I think its the 
students that are coming to this school have had more 
prior experience.
Despite every year being theme-less and unique, 
there will always be a special aura that encompasses 
Dance/Light.
Its really terrific to see, said Conte. This is the 
one time we work as a dance company mentality. 
There is a certain bonding and sharing. And its the 
one time that this theatre space is set up in a concert 
dance format, which is very simple and clean. Simple 
floor and lights. Kind of hallowedness ... Im not try
ing to be spiritual, but there is, about that coming 
together. Its really nice to see the cross-section of stu
dents that I see and work with have that together.
koewl bo,J 
NloRRD,ulw,
rL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004.11

---------------------------------------------------

Time travel gone wrong
The Butterfly Effect flutters between engaging and implausible
Is there ever a time-travel movie that has every
thing go exactly as planned?
The Butterfly Effect, a psychological thriller directed 
by newcomers Eric Bress and J. Mackey Gruber (the 
screenwriters behind Final Destination 2) is, beneath 
it all, a tragic love story. However, this love story has 
one little twist: it happens again and again and again, 
but never the right way.
The movie spans 13 years of Evan Treborns life. He 
(played by three different actors across the movie  
Logan Lerman at eight, John Patrick Amedori at thir
teen, and Ashton Kutcher in the present day) has a 
hard life. His father is institutionalized for mental ill
ness, leaving his mother to raise him on her own. 
Evan suffers from blackouts at times of extreme stress
 a condition he apparently inherited from his father. 
Evan and his friends are magnets for serious trouble, 
it seems, and after a series of absolutely horrifying 
events Evans mother makes the decision to move 
away. The boy grows up and goes to college, where 
we find out that he is an amazing student majoring in 
psychology while experimenting on memory forma
tion in hopes of understanding his condition.
Little does Evan know it will take more than psy
chology to learn about himself. As a child, his psychi
atrist suggested he keep journals to try and recover 
the blacked-out memories. He reads a passage to a 
girl one night (an admittedly poor decision, based on 
the content of these journals) and blacks out... only 
to regain consciousness with a memory he did not 
have before. Bewildered, Evan goes back to his home
town to try and make sense of what happened.
Evan tracks down his old friend Lenny (played as an 
adult by Elden Henson), who became severely dis
turbed after one of the groups childhood incidents. 
Lenny helps him realize that the memory was real, 
and Evan immediately tracks down his childhood love 
Kayleigh (played as an adult by Amy Smart) and tries 
to reconcile with her. Unfortunately, Kayleigh ends up 
running off into the darkness, sobbing and screaming 
at Evan for leaving her years ago.
The next morning Kayleighs ever-unstable brother 
Tommy (played by William Lee Scott as an adult) 
informs Evan that she committed suicide last night... 
and he blames Evan. This is where things get interest
ing. Evan realizes he can go back, visit his blacked out 
memories, and actually be present in the past to 
change them, therefore altering the fabric of time and 
changing his future. He goes back to a childhood 
memory where Kayleighs father attempts to create a 
pornographic film of the two children and Evan stops 
him. Evan wakes up in the present in Kayleighs bed; 
the two are dating in college and hes a brother in a 
stereotypical rich-boy fraternity.
Bridget Lewis/Art Editor
Tommy hasnt been treated well by this alternative 
present. It seems that Kayleighs father turned all his 
rage on him after Evan intervened, and when Tommy 
finds the two lovebirds he tries to kill Evan and winds 
up on the dead end of self-defense manslaughter. 
Evan is sent to prison and after a drawn-out sequence 
goes back to fix things once again.
This process is repeated throughout the movie: 
Evan messes up, Evan goes back to fix things, Evan 
creates an even worse present, lather, rinse, repeat. 
The unintended consequences keep getting worse and 
worse, and soon we realize that the blackouts are 
caused by this time shifting. We see moments from 
Evans childhood, featured in the beginning of the 
film, from different and expanded perspectives. 
Sometimes events occur the same way they did at the 
beginning only with more information added to them
 other times Evans time-capades change the course 
of his life completely. Finally the situation gets so hor
rific that Evan decides to make one final jump back 
and the movie ends on a bitter, but not depressing, 
note.
The Butterfly Effect can be thought of as a sort of 
cross between Donnie Darko, Groundhog Day, and 
Back to the Future. They were all great films in their 
own right, and Effect manages to pull many of their 
most intriguing elements out together. Kutcher is a bit 
light in the lead role  he has talent, but it seems like 
he hasnt matured enough to be able to really use that 
talent yet. The rest of the cast carried their parts well, 
with Amy Smart of course getting the most screen 
time as the object of Kutchers timeless love. No one 
was particularly outstanding, and that was one of two 
hurdles to greatness that this movie could not over
come.
The script of The Butterfly Effect could have been 
better. For the most part it was well-written, but some 
lines were sloppy and sometimes even a bit uninten
tionally goofy. To be fair, the writers managed to bal
ance seriousness with a smattering of humor here and 
there. Kutcher did get his chance to goof off once or 
twice, which was actually slightly distracting, because 
it reminded us of his other efforts in Punkd and That 
70s Show.
The script never attempts to really explain how 
Kutcher achieves his time-bending feats, and it is bet
ter that way. Any explanation they could possibly 
come up with would likely sound completely bogus  
it is better to keep the suspension of disbelief going 
and let the viewers imagination run free. As with any 
time-travel movie, this one is full of plot holes so big 
you could drive a Dodge through them. However, its 
excusable, because they are necessary for the to make 
any sense whatsoever, and also they dont really show 
up until you start thinking about them afterwards.
The Butterfly Effect is a great movie if youre inter
ested in chaos theory, time travel, human destiny, or 
psychological thrillers in general. Its not the pinnacle 
of its genre, but it is enjoyable and well worth the time 
to go see it.
yfoe NFesDu4J9 
buii"mB 4mIysulm,
1
rL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

% movie
:M iWm MWm, 
cotri:utig iditor
Time travel gone right
Rewind time and take chances in Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time
My first impression when I picked up Prince of 
Persia: The Sands of Time, from UbiSoft, was nothing 
more than, Oh wow, another third-person 
action/adventure game with another horrible cam
era view. My impression was gleefully destroyed 
when I picked up a GameCube controller and delved 
into a simple and powerful story. I say story because 
Prince is played and narrated as an account of the 
Princes experience. This shift in time perspective is 
just one of many things that subtly connect the gameplay with the manipulation of time. The small touch
es are nice too; if you die while playing, the Prince 
will say No, no, that doesnt seem right...
Most hardcore game fans will readily recall the 
Prince of Persia games of an age long ago, a distinc
tively 8-bit age when the games ancestor graced the 
cartridges of the original Nintendo system. While 
they may share the same name, no knowledge of the 
previous incarnations is needed. You can dive in and 
start performing acrobatics and seemingly impossible 
moves right away.
The main character wholl be doing all the acrobat
ics and saving of the princesses and defeating of the 
bad guys is the Prince of Persia, of course. The story 
begins when his father, the Sultan, is aided by a trai
torous Vizier from another nation. This act of treach
ery enables him to conquer that nation and raid its 
vaults. Treasures, both mystical and human, are 
taken from the conquered land back to the Sultans 
castle in Persia, setting the scene for the rest of the 
game.
The Vizier tricks the Prince into using one of the 
treasures, the Dagger of Time, to unlock another arti
fact, the Sands of Time, to unwittingly unleash a force 
of destruction across the land which turns everyone 
into what can best be described as sand zombies. 
The Vizier will escape with the Sands of Time and 
eventually, the Prince will team up with Farah, the 
daughter of the king his father defeated (that human 
treasure of which I spoke earlier), to confront him. 
Her scantily-clad, lithe form will help you through 
areas of the game that your acrobatics and brute 
force will not be able to overcome, mainly in the form 
of her slipping through cracks in the walls into pas
sages where there are switches you need to have 
tripped. (Insert various crack whore jokes here.)
At the core of the game is a series of puzzles and 
platform challenges, interspersed with scenes of 
intense combat. Although the games expansive areas 
suggest otherwise, the game is thoroughly linear, and 
puzzle-solving will prove a moderate challenge even 
for a college student such as yourself. Sometimes, you 
will step back from the action and the wall-walking 
and the beam-balancing and think, Man, this is a 
beautiful puzzle.
Combat controls and moves are basically given to 
you through the first part of the game; therefore, the 
trick to defeating the multitudes of baddies (they har
bor no qualms about ganging up on you) is the timing 
of your moves. Not only will you have bad-ass moves 
with which to dispatch your enemies, but you will 
have the power of the Dagger of Time at your dispos
al. With it, you can slow down time, giving your ene
mies less time to react to your attacks. Among other 
powers, the Dagger of Time will allow you to cheat 
death itself, letting you travel back in time about 20 
to 30 seconds. Did that scythe-wielding zombie just 
rock your sorry ass? No problem, just revert and bob 
instead of weave. The dagger is powered by Sand 
Tanks, which are replenished by absorbing the souls 
of your zombie enemies into the weapon. Overall, 
this is one freakin huge can of temporal whoop-ass 
youll be able to unleash.
The games sound is immersive and the voice acting 
is believably excellent. Although the story told 
between the beginning and the end is not extensive, 
it weaves a subtle love story forged of the witty ban
ter which arcs between Farah and the Prince.
This game has personality, folks; and in my opin
ion, it suffers from only a handful of faults. Farah uses 
her bow to cover you in combat and occasionally 
plunges a few arrowheads into your backside (for 
which she graciously apologizes). Also, facing the 
same retinue of enemies can start to feel repetitive. 
You will welcome the various weapon upgrades that 
you will pick up on your way to the Vizier. The game 
could also be longer, with gameplay on the order of 
only 10-15 hours if you dont get stuck in one area for
ever and ever.
Prince of Persia: Sands of Time is an excellent use of 
those dozen or so hours of your life but the $50 itll 
drain from your wallet might not fit your budget if 
you tend to get games with greater replay value or a 
longer time to beat. I give Prince of Persia: Sands of 
Time 9 out of 10 death-reversing daggers.
1iwB w2wrFw,9 
ysulm,IGeIgYuwR
Much Ado About Nothing
Hi30L3o0271 51681 2L0 6AC
It's not everyday that AB does Shakespeare. We are 
lucky to have been graced with the Bard this week. 
Then again, Neo? Kate Beckinsdale? I hope the dis
tributer is paying us to play this film. Did I mention 
that the writing credits include Kenneth Branagh? I 
didn't realize HE wrote it. My take? Skip this one  
Julia Stiles does not make an appearence.
Chungking Express
HROSDo0271 51681 2L0 6AC
No no no. this is not some sort of funkadelic acid 
trip with Parliment and George Clinton. What is 
this? It's some piece of garbage about "Cop 223" 
and Cop 663" and their failing love lives. IMDB 
calls it discontinuous and we all know that dis
continuous means undifferentiable which means 
you can't understand it. Lost in translation? More 
like lost in shipping? I wish. Three thumbs down.
Shattered Glass
pW,uso09 &xP9UP9 oes U:&xP;
Well here is a movie we can all relate to. We have 
all made up sources, quotes, and even entire term 
papers. This, of course, is dishonest  but it's also 
how several of us (cough cough AB staff) got into 
college. Steve Glass fabricates almost half of his 
articles during his time at The New Republic. Then 
it all comes crashing down. Cheaters be forewarned.
School of Rock
pNolF,so09 -9UP9 oes U:;
Jack Black, Joan Cusack, and Sarah Silverman, 
huh? Sounds like a good movie from that alone. 
Jack teaches some kids to rock out and learns some 
life lessons. Does that sound like a movie you have 
seen before? My old roommate took his girlfriend to 
this funny and heartwarming comedy and said it 
was cool. That means that his girlfriend gave up the 
cooch later. If any girls want to give up the cooch 
to me, I'll be waiting outside the doors after the sec
ond showing.
Barbershop
pNFeso09 -9UP9 oes U:;
Post-NWA Ice Cube has been little more than a 
warm puddle of dog urine. That said, 1 was fairly 
surprised by this movie. It has a great cast despite 
the oldest plot device ever. Cube is against the wall 
and about to lose his father's barbershop. Bank 
loans, loan sharks, and juvenile ruffians are tossed 
into the mix as well. It's kind of like Electric 
Boogalo and Robocop, but without the dancing and 
the robots.
rL00ngs pl w4at4ud pccos1

---------------------------------------------------

CLASSIFIEDS.
Fax 1.865.463.0038 
orioncorp@comcast, netOPPORTUNITIES.
www.SpecklyDoo.com  The hottest new site 
offering an eclectic array of handmade gift 
items for you, your home, and your pampered 
pets! New items added constantly. Right now, 
we have beautiful cat-themed jewelry, unusual 
Halloween home decor items, summer purse 
clearance sale, and unique back-to-school 
purses.
Vending Route. 25 high-traffic locations.
18,000.00 yearly income. Hurry, wont last. 
Cost $3500. 1.800.568.1392. www.vendingthatworks.com.
Want to make FAST money?
Get paid $3 - $10 for only 20 minutes. Sign 
up today to participate in this fun, easy, and 
quick word puzzle study. For times and infor
mation e-mail: ejcho@andrew.cmu.edu with 
Puzzle Study in the subject line.
Local test prep. Company seeking part time 
physics teachers. Excellent communications 
skills a must. Grad students preferred but not 
limited to. Call 412.687.4880 or e-mail 
info.pittsburgh@review. com.
HAIR MODELS NEEDED! Male and female. All 
hair types. Call 412.488.8951 ext. 201 for 
details and upcoming casting calls.
Seeking a ghost writer to place my thoughts 
into words for a mystery novel. $50.00 per 
chapter. 12 chapters: $600.00  15 chapters: 
$750.00. Please send r6sum6 to.- 
Fifthave61@yahoo.com or fax to:
412.422.4329 ATTN: Mr. Walter Trent. 
Qualifications: creativity and the enjoyment of 
writing.
**Work From Home*** Int'l Company 
Expanding. Earn up to $500-$1500 PT/mo. 
$2000-$7500 FT/mo. Will train. Call:
1.888.304.0872. www.NewLifeWealth.com
PEER EDUCATORS WANTED 
Peer Educators needed to present sexuality 
education programs to teens. Good public 
speaking skills desired. No experience neces
sary. Paid training. Flexible part-time hours. 
Must be high school graduate. Great for college 
students. Possible internship opportunities. 
For more information, please call
412.288.2130 ext. 176 and ask for Damion or 
send e-mail to fhcpeereducation@hotmail.com
MEDICAL.
Amazing Metabolism Breakthrough!
Lose 10 - 200 LBS!! Easy, quick, fast dramat
ic results. All Natural. Dr. Recommended. $$$ 
Guarantee.
1.888.738.2802 
www.NewLifeTrend. net
Talk Therapy Research Study for Depression 
and Anxiety Men and women, ages 18 to 60,
who are suffering with symptoms of both 
depression and anxiety are needed to partici
pate in a talk therapy research study. For more 
details or to see if you qualify, please call the 
Depression Prevention Program at
412.624.4444. There are no costs associated 
with the study. All calls are confidential.
Completely healthy males ages 18-40 without 
medical problems and not taking any medica
tions needed for research study in the division 
of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care 
Medicine at the University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center. Must have no history of dia
betes, insomnia, smoking, or depression. Study 
will involve two 48-hour sessions in the sleep 
laboratory during the week. Total participation 
time will be approximately 4 weeks. No cost to 
participants; financial compensation provided. 
Call Heidi at 412.692.2880.
Depression
Is it a problem for you or someone you love? 
You're not alone. According to the National 
Institute of Mentai Health, during any one-year 
period, 18.8 million Americans  one in 10 
adults  experience depression. Andrea 
Fagiolini, MD, is conducting a research study at 
the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center to 
examine the effectiveness of an antidepressant 
medication for major depression. You or a loved 
one may qualify if you:
* are age 18 to 60
* feel depressed and anxious
* are either antidepressant-free or taking an 
antidepressant that is not helping.
As part of the study, participants will undergo 
psychological assessments and receive medica
tion. The medication to be used in this study 
has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration for major depression. There is 
no cost for participating in the study. For more 
information, please call Traci Salopek today at
412.624.4444. All calls are confidential. 
TRAVEL.
SPRING BREAK 2004! Travel with Beach Life
Vacations! Americas Best
Student Tour Operator! Jamaica, Cancn,
Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. Sell trips, Earn
Cash, Travel Free! Hurry - Book Now!
1.800.733.6347
www. beachlifevacations. com
* 1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancn, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, Florida. 
Campus Reps Wanted! Free Meals & Parties!
1.800.234.7007 
endlesssummertours. com
***SPRING BREAK*** PANAMA CITY BEACH, 
FL Book early and save $$$ Worlds longest 
keg party - Free beer all week! Live band & DJ. 
Wet T-shirt, hard body and Venus Swimwear 
contest. Suites up to 12 people, 3 pools, huge 
beachfront hot tub, lazy river ride, water slide, 
jet skis, parasail. Beach Resort
1.800.488.8828 www.sandpiperbeacon.com 
Orion Media Associates, Inc.
1.800.298.4855
USA SPRING BREAK.com 
Cancn, Bahamas, Acapulco, Jamaica & More. 
Dont be fooled! Go with Quality & Experience! 
28 years in business. Largest Student Tour 
Operator. (Division of USA Student Travel). Call 
Toll Free: 1.877.460.6077. Now also hiring 
Campus Reps. Earn 2 Free Trips for 15 
Travelers & $$
Sell Spring Break Trips! Guaranteed Best Buy 
1 free trip for every 10 paid OR ca$h starting 
with first booking. Exxtreme Party Packages! 
Protection of American Express Worldwide 
EXXTREME VACATIONS, INC 1.800.336.2260 
www. xxvacations. com
***ACT NOW! Book 11 people, get 12th trip 
free. Group discounts for 6+ www.springbreakdiscounts.com or 1.800.838.8202
Test your word skills, but more importantly, GET 
PAID! WINTER AND SPRING BREAK Ski & 
Beach Trips on sale now! 
www.Sunchase.com or call 1.800.SUNCHASE 
today!
Spring Break 04 with Student City.com and 
Maxim Magazine! Get hooked up with Free 
trips, Cash and VIP Status as a Campus Rep! 
Choose from 15 of the hottest destinations. 
Book early for FREE MEALS, FREE DRINKS 
and 150% Lowest Price Guarantee! To reserve 
online or view our Photo Gallery, visit www.studentcity.com or call 1-888-SPRINGBREAK!
FOR RENT OR SALE.
Acura Integra *00 GS, 26k miles, red, 2dr 
coupe, 5spd, leather, CD, AC, sunroof. 
Excellent condition $13,200. Cali
724.612.4403.
OHARA TOWNSHIP
Good first house in the Fox Chapel School 
District. Brick Cape Cod with 3 BR, 2 Baths. 
$160,000. For info send e-mail to manfredi@pitt.edu Awesome 2 Bedroom Townhouse 
Style. Newly Remodeled, Roof Top Deck, Quiet. 
$850.00 + Gas & Electric. Call
412.621.3028.
Luxury 2 bedroom one block to CMU. Beautiful, 
modern & spacious with vaulted ceilings. Fully 
equipped kitchen. Fenced yard with patio.
Laundry, A/C. $1200/month includes gas, elec
& digital cable. Robb Rea! Estate Co.
412.682.7622 or rrec@telerama.com
FOR RENT: CMU Student Seeking CMU Female 
Roommate for Second Bedroom and Private 
Full Bath. Saxony Apartments 229 N. Craig 
Street. FURNISHED Apartment ONLY .5 miles 
from CMU. LAUNDRY and PARKING available. 
Shared Utilities, CABLE and INTERNET.
(WATER PAID). 11 Month Lease for
$500/month.
Call: 520.370.1787.
E-mail: tcpaz@hotmail.com
Squirrel Hill, 2nd floor duplex, 2 large rooms 
plus kitchen and bath, ideal for 2 students, 1 
block from bus line to university, $795, 
INCLUDES GAS AND ELECTRIC. Call
412.521.1308.
HOME FOR SALE BEECHVIEW. Home with 
inviting entry awaits you! Solid, spacious one 
floor, brick with character, level entry, near T, 8 
minutes to town, near greenway, 3 br, 1 bath. 
$55K 412.421.5659, jjune@pghmail.com
Forest Hills - Furnished room for rent - only 
$325.00. Call 412.371.2256
Office Space for rent on Fifth Avenue 
$600/month, call 412.681.6830
Classified Rates 
All local ads are free at The 
Tartan's discretion
MAIL TO:
The Tartan, Box 101 7 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Pittsburgh,PA 15289
 Classifieds must be paid in 
cash, check, or credit card before 
first run date
 Non-local ad rates:
20 words....$10.00/wk
21-50 words.........$12.00/wk
51-100 words.......$15.00/wk
 Due 5 pm Thursday before 
publication
14rL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

byA lexaeAn dr Kiufn Oefvvfate
Vo-vV W\l.
?rof* t^yKcusd leowh^o.'i 
cowV-vrcx;\ beW<i i-V.
hyfvpsc
A^e<W 0^,50 X J V
v i \ t> uK. We wd HI ^7 <4ro^ecJ ocvd 0*0*0 TSO._ gr>^T^Nd ^AjeyA ovV^ ^ A ;^Z-T
gb-cH U4w or,y 5^Wp^ L. A
Ky n,PgumuR Y-e^r cW^t^w*,] 
o^x croups WV <\s Ic^a^
^^+0^jWVoS\ Xtvo& oVCay. XsP4e*eVo *Wu I
t*T ^1^'^MvHi-colortd \ 
S>\ cVo.t^ojrva^ ~Z
X W>Wcki 8 to>^er5 ^vA 
Sof^eVow V\ tv, wWcuV o.K\l.
V^Wo^ ViTO^ W6T> z6
Xlo.reA ?Nxybe ,aKourt>breH'Cjpne sferta ' 
AyW.V<etTVe UMe<l%U '
ACROSS
1 A popular song paid homage to
Five Dead in_____
4 The Hippiess smoke of choice
7 A radical black activist group
8 Site of a prolonged military con 
flict
10 The type of segregation that hap
pened in Northern States
12 Home state of JFK
14 His Lonely Hearts Club Band
changed the face of music
16 A summer concert in 1969
attended by 500,000
20 A multi-colored style of T-shirt
21 A recent holiday honoring this civil 
rights leader sparked a large 
debate at CMU
24 The most influential rock and roll
band of all time with the name of 
an insect
28 President who suceeded John
Kennedy after his assasination
27 Open sexual practices of the 
Flower Children.
28 In the midst of the Cold War came
this___________Crisis
DOWN
2 The rebeling youth of the 60s
3 I cant get no...
4 Title of a famous book by Abbie 
Hoffman
6 This patriotic guitarist is known 
for his unique version of the Star 
Spangled Banner
7 Style of pants named after a musi 
cal instrument
9 Violent and destructive______took
place in New York Detroit, LA, and 
other cities
11 ________power
12 A genre of music named for its 
hometown Detroit
13 June through September, 1969
15 Genre of music first popularized
by Elvis Presley
17 Both a type of carpet and a hair 
style
18 Demonstrations against the 
Vietnam War
19 Vivid colors and bizarre patterns
22 Home state of Woodstock
24 Civil rights activist with the Nation
of Islam
27 The practice of requiring military
enlistment from young men
2 x 4! by Aaron Kablack
Although best known for their ability 
to play dead, possums are also quite 
adept at limbo.
rL00ngs 26 w4atu4ud 2004
Pittsburgh Stories by Eli Pousson

---------------------------------------------------

duckbar
~  ? \\
./ou swokecr
"7 joints..
... 3lmsf 62ugT 
i 2U 2U/ci 
y u gU
t&Scd+HUt
Harold and the Other Guy by Bob Rost
And what are you 
putting in there?
Whatchu got 
there, Harold?
Pills from the 
pharmacy's dumpsterTyler and Fred by Greg Prichard
i mps yu uemnp' I'ioUK LgtSOH.I really ivaaV -h
t*- up MNy +Kt -Ws,
/io{i are I/. 
H*r< <\rt  -ftuo 
CO(\Clf+ 
WHAT'S iwftoNt GLBe 
yjut olO OA'ryj-'"'"ht s
Th:>pof^Kr  7Kt'<W:
bobrost.com/harold
GROW,
PLANT!
I should 
move away.umm
Everybodies News by Franz Harter
Ph.D. by Jorge Cham
I THINK THE SPEAKER IS A NOBEL LAUREATE.
oayfan oK^z^r^;
7/---------PTHE WHOLEWWiiiiiWthonefNhAf
V-T7TV\ Is GOING.
BUT... ITS RELATED . TO VOUR THESIS ___ TOPIC...
I THINK THERE'S GOm TO BE s FOOD THERE. J
HEY, MIKE, ARENT VOU 60IN6 TO THE -------------SEMINAR?
THIS BETTER "-i BE &OOD.NO THANKS.11:45 by Ed Ryan
Comics Trivia Question:
Q: What famous 
comic book artist 
was born Jacob 
Kurtzmann in 1917?
wwu.phdcomicj.comJokes N Laffs by Eli Pousson
WffcVKir*i of \eHuoe 
pes its ex. CoeSBe the first to write 
to comics 
thetartan.org 
with the right answer 
and get your name 
printed in next 
weeks issue!
rL00ngs pl w4at4ud pccos

---------------------------------------------------

Dilbert'
by Scott Adams
I ChN'I DO hNY MORE 
WORK ON NY PRObECI 
UNIIL YOU GIVE YOUR 
INPUI, BUI YOU'RE 
IOO BUSY.
IHERE'S NO POLIIE 
WhY IO ShY IHIS : 
BILL,YOU'RE h 
BOIILENECK.
OK,PERHhPS I 
HhVE h FEU IDIO
SYNCRhSIES , BUI 
II'S ONLY BEChUSE 
I ChRE SO MUCH 
hBOUI IHE LbORK.
WE RE NOI "LEVEL 
CONSCIOUS" HERE.
YOU COULD WhLK UP IO 
hNY VICE PRESIDENI'S 
OFFICE hND IhLK IO 
HIS SECREIhRY hS 
IF YOU UbERE hN 
EQUhL.
WHICH, BY IHE WhY, 
YOU'RE NOI. SO DON'I 
IRY IO MhKE DIRECI 
EYE CONIhCI.
DON'I SELL YOUR NEW 
PRODUCI FOR *29. 
OFFER II hI *1,000,029 
WIIH h REBhIE OF*1,000,000.
I'LL BEGIN BY 
HhLLUCINhIING 
IHhI YOU ShID 
SOMEIHING BhD. 
IHEN I'LL YELL hI 
YOU FOR ShYING II.
I AH 
NOTA
IF I GO IO 
NY CUBICLE, 
ChN YOU
<r#vrvrcIIr HhLLUCISADISTIG NATE THAT
I'M HERE?NUT!!!
WhLLY,IHERE HhVE 8
BEEN COMPLhINIS IHhI b 
YOU IhKE CONFERENCE f 
ChLLS FROM IHE MEN'S f 
ROOM. f
NO ONE INVIIED YOU 
IO IHOSE CONFERENCE 
ChLLS.
WHhI IF I'VE 
hLREhDY 
FINISHED IHE 
NEWS
PhPER?
BOIILENECK BILL
hLL PURCHhSE ORDERS 
MUSI BE hPPROVED BY 
ME.
YOUR DOCUMENI IS 
NOW ShYING HI IO IHE 
BOIIOM OF IHE PILE.
I'M HhVING PROBLEMS 
hI HOME, SO I'LL BE 
IhKING II OUI ON YOU 
IODhY.
PEOPLE WILL IHINK II'S 
h GREhI BhRGhIN WHEN 
IN FhCI II'S bUSI h 
HUGE INCONVENIENCE.
hND hLL WE NEED IS 
ONE PERSON IO FORGEI 
IO MhIL IN IHE REBhIE 
FORMS.
WE'LL IhRGEI 
IHE LhZY 
RICH.
II'S IIIhNIUM. 
NICE IRY.
I'LL BE IOO BUSY IO 
hPPROVE hNYIHING, BUI 
hI LEhSI WE HhVE h 
SYSIEM.
by Stephan Pastis
BECAUSE I GOT TESTED FOS, A S0NCH OF FATAL SISEASES m THE DOCTOR SAID THE RESULTS WERE NEGATIVE.
WELL, EXREWE CASES Y WoW.... WHERE EVfflCNEES Tftf 10 TW AT
\jiewawlt sites, there's wwlp 
AM mm ATTACHED TO deter 
MONITOR THAT EfflOPES^AWVOME.
WHAT ARE YOOKATGOTAHEWOB/ BOT HE DOESNT \M VT, BECAOSE THEY VMT LET ElAFtMES .60 0) THE WTERIVTHAT'S GOOD.
I HEAR RAT'SNEW EMPLOYER LOOK AT ADOUCIS REAL STRICT SVTES, fttO about mmzT mmmm L OSAGE.  OYOU. X
I WISH 1 KtOEOJ U)HO WROTE THATOH,IOOKL THERE'S OWE Itf THERE 
l'Jow!
THIS IS OR MEW SUGGESTION) BoX.WHEM OtiE OF OS HAS A HTTLE ISSUE WlTH THE OTHER GOV, HE CAN JUST ORO? Mr\mmm mte im here.
AHHH.SES.... IT SANS. "THE FlGIS A BIG, FAT 
rtOROKT
THAT SOMOS ft UTTIE EXTREME, ...P 0 Ml REALLY Ttv^K EWlOYEES S?6M THElR WS LOOKING AT PlRTY ?(CTORES?
HOW WAS YOUR WEEKEND
tty:#*
8q (h2m,,fCCuD.)l( 
name's 1 recognise DoR\s. A YooRMCE.y
IT WOti'T 
BE CASY.
I'M G-OIMGTO ft WAKE
MYCOOS\K)
DlEtt
WHOYOU GOING TO AWAKE?
SIR, EVER S\NCE YOU INSTALLED INK SAGS THAT EX?LODE WHEN AtO EWLOYEEMlEWS ADULT INTERNETNulw29 w(uw,0 .oiw wDim0ww Yo28EENCOMERED1N INK.
WELL, ftS OWE OF YOOR Y REST FEMALE ENflOVEES,I MUST ASSURED. SAY TWATTHIS CONSTAT KlR-I^RE REMWDEROF MALE FROCUMTAKING ITIESIS CREATING ANlERY TWISTY HOSTILE EMROMENT. ASERMSLY.
WHAT DO YOO MEAM*WHO?
IREAU2ETHAT
rL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004.17

---------------------------------------------------

Comickaze:
Photo Courtesy of newsarama.com
Johnny Romita hands off a penciled cover.
How Comics Books Work
The creation of a comic book is a unique blend of 
collaborative and individual effort.
Writer
The writer is often the beginning of the creative 
process. The author of a comic book writes in script 
format. Comic scripts separate the action by page 
and panel instead of by location and scene. The 
script that spells out the majority of the action 
within a page or panel is considered a traditional 
comic script, and occasionally referred to as DC 
Style.
Comic book creator Stan Lee developed his own 
style during his prolific career. Short on time and 
believing his artists had a better vision for layout 
and action, Stan provided general plot information 
for an issue. Stan then set to writing dialogue for 
the panels provided by artists such as Jack Kirby, 
Steve Ditko, and Gene Colan. This was dubbed 
Marvel Style, and occurs infrequently among pro
fessionals today.
Penciler
The next creator in the comic chain is the pencil
er. Although it varies by creator, the standard 
amount of illustration from a penciler will include 
all characters and action, with the majority of back
ground included. Pencil quality will often depend 
on how quickly an artist is comfortable with pro
ducing the average 22 pages. Some artists can fin
ish 8 to 10 issues a year, while other pencilers may 
draw two monthly series and never miss an issue.
Popular pencilers such as Todd McFarlane and 
Jim Lee have become wealthy and gone on to pub
lish their own comic books. Penciling also has two 
dynasties: Romita and Kubert. John Romita, Sr. 
worked for Marvel Comics illustrating Spider-Man, 
serving as art director, and designing Marvels most 
popular mutant: Wolverine. Today, John Romita, 
Jr., has established himself as one of the finest in 
his craft in Uncanny X-Men, Daredevil, and cur
rently Amazing Spider-Man. Joe Kubert rendered 
many classic DC Comics heroes, and founded the 
Joe Kubert School of Cartoon and Graphic Art. His 
sons, Andy and Adam, have become two of 
Marvels most popular pencilers.
Inker
Printing technology has dramatically changed 
since the creation of comic books in the 1930s. 
Originally using the four-color process on 
newsprint, comics required definite black and 
white art. Pencils were neither dark nor defined 
enough to be directly colored. Thus the inker, an 
artist possessing refined line quality and attention
to detail, was brought in.
Colorist
The colors of popular superhero costumes are 
just as important to their characters as their masks 
or capes: Batmans subtle blue and gray, the Hulks 
green hide, Cyclops red optic blasts, and 
Aquamans ridiculous orange scales. Where num
bered paints and markers once existed, Photoshop 
and other software now command coloring tech
nology. The 1990s saw a redefinition of the col
orists role in comic creation. Now an unlimited set 
of shades and tints rest can be summoned at the 
click of a mouse.
Letterer
Comics are a distinct art form thanks to a few 
trademark devices  the primary device being 
word balloons and text. Once done by hand, today 
software featuring hand lettered fonts and other 
enhancements help get the job done with greater 
speed and consistency. Lettering may come near 
the end of the creative chain, but its importance is 
profound. Action words such as Wolverines 
snkit, Nightcrawlers bamf, and Spider-Mans 
thwip have become as important to the charac
ters as their costume and powers.
Editor, Editor-in-Chief, and Publisher
The editor is a vital part of comic creation. 
Depending on the needs of creators, the editor will 
intervene more or less, helping to craft the creative 
direction of a comic title. Assistant editors help 
their employers stay on top of multiple series at a 
time. Also known as comics most stressful position, 
the editor-in-chief is responsible for guiding the 
entire editorial process. The publisher is the link 
between business and editorial, working to satisfy 
the desires of artists and editors while keeping 
money matters in mind.
Comic book creation is neither clear-cut nor a 
consistent chain. The lines between roles in comic 
creation blur as writers pencil or ink, pencilers ink, 
color, or letter, and editors may direct the stories 
told in a series. One thing is for certain: it takes 
more than one person to produce a monthly comic 
book, and each individual has a creative influence.
Vu4J o,uem9 
NloRRD,ulw,
Photo Courtesy of newsarama.com
Computers provide a dazzling array of colors.
18
rL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004.

---------------------------------------------------

MONDAY 26.
Amnesty International. Letter Writing for Human Rights. 
Kiva Han, Craig Street. Call 412.767.5521 for more 
information.
Dark Night Cabaret. Evening of performance, art, spoken 
word, and more. With Ed Masley, Pitt Repertory Theatre, 
Kevin Clark Forsythe, Kevin Wenner. Studio Theatre, 
University of Pittsburgh. Call 412.683.4667 for more 
information.
The Drue Heinz Lectures. This week: Michael Cunningham. 
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland. Call 412.622.8866 for 
more information.
TUESDAY 27.
CMU Womens Center. Meeting. 5 pm, Margaret Morrison 
Apartments. E-mail wodmen@andrew.cmu.edu for more 
information.
First Modern Languages International Film Festival: 
Crossing Borders. Chaos (France, 2003). 5 pm. 
McConomy Auditorium. Free. Call 412.268.5149.
Pittsburgh for Howard Dean. Watch the New Hampshire 
election returns. Ryans Pub, Regent Square. Call 
412.362.1438 for more information.
Salsa Dance Lessons. Tuesdays. The X, Shadyside. Call 
412.362.6293 for more information.
WEDNESDAY 28.
Local Currents Discussion Series. Join representa
tives from PennFuture, Sierra Club, and Ground 
Zero Acton Network to discuss the environmental, 
social, and economic implications of the proposed 
development of the Hays Hillside. 7:30 pm. Mudge 
Piano Lounge. E-mail rhewlett@andrew.cmu.edu for 
more information.
FRIDAY 30.
Latin Dance. Learn salsa, merengue & cha-cha. Non
smoking environment. Fridays. Wightman Dancehall. 
Call 412.421.9734 for more information.
Algo Latino. Dowes on 9th. Call 412.281.9225 for more 
information.
Friday Nite Improvs. Studio Theatre Cathedral of Learning. 
Call 412.681.9677 for more information.
SATURDAY 31.
Amateur Radio License Exam Session. The Carnegie Tech 
Radio Club is giving exams for Amateur Radio licenses 
beginning at noon in Hamerschlag Hall, room B131. Cost is 
$12 for as many of the four exams as you can pass. 
Knowledge of Morse Code is no longer required to get a call 
sign. Noon to 4 pm. See http://www.andrew.cmu. 
edu/~ar99/testing, e-mail ar99@andrew.cmu.edu, or call 
Maya at 412.268.5283 for study resources or more infor
mation.
Knitting Circle. Knit, purl, dish, and chat. Saturdays. The 
Quiet Storm. Friendship. Call 412.661.9355 for more infor
mation.
SUNDAY 1.
Pittsburgh hash House Harriers. Hare & Hound style 
mystery run. Sundays. Call 412.381.6709 for more 
information.
Tackle Football. Pick-up style, emphasis on fun. 
Sundays. Call 412.327.6097 for information.
Schenley Park Tours. Sponsored by the Pittsburgh Parks 
Conservancy. Sundays. Call 412.687.1800 for more 
information.
ONGOING
THURSDAY 29.
Bohemian Thursdays. Tango Cafe, Squirrel Hill. Open poet
ry readings. Thursdays. Call 412.421.1390 for more 
information.
CMU Visiting Writers Series. This week: Linda Gregerson. 
Call 412.868.2850 for more information.
Pittsburgh New Play Festival. Showcase of new work. This 
week: Pound by Sean OLeary. Through February 7. 
Gemini Theatre Company, Point Breeze. Call 
866.243.6460 for more information.
The Buffalo Soldiers Plus One. Opening Night. Kuntu 
Repertory Theatre Oakland. A new play with music by 
Ernest McCarty and Vernell Lillie. Through February 14. 
Call 412.624.7298 for more information.
Habla Conmigo: Tertulias de Habla Hispana. Tuesdays with 
Veronica, 4 to 6 pm, Skibo Coffeehouse; Wednesdays with 
Alberto, 4 to 6 pm, Baker Hall 235A; Thursdays with 
WenShu, 6 to 8 pm, Porter Hall 226B.
UC Fridays. Every Friday, the UC will feature a different per
formance, service, or entertainment at noon.
Artists Wanted. Mr. Roboto Project, a DIY/punk venue in 
Wilkinsburg, is seeking new art and artists. Please submit 
by February 15, when volunteers will be spending the day 
working on the space. E-mail booking@ 
therobotoproject.org for more information.
Celebrity Lookalikes Wanted. Pittsburgh Film Office is seek
ing potential actors/volunteers who can pose as a celebri
ty look-alike for the annual Oscar party Lights! Glamour! 
Action! on February 29. Call 412.261.2744 for more 
information.
vox>*
JL **-
is
POPULI.
L. O 
<U
E
3
_Q TJcn
THE OFFICIAL VOICE<W c
Qi
OF LOW-GRADE COKE.Q_CD
Q.m ^
SUBMIT TO VOX POPULI.fD -PT3 V)
send your word junk toJL fDC 'H
tartan@andrew. emu. edup jzO JC
M 3 13 4J
A
How do you 
drink this?. 
With a grain 
of crack.XT*to5h
Kt
if
If Jessica RabbH 
was rea{, /<f fre 
a (esblar)*
t
I 59"
SBH Aftl. dw
CD HHPjfl w ;Ca C
?I
9
SLAVE-SCHTUPPING
,10 l&APS 15V 
SSISmTQ!
o
c
6 ...fmm-S
O ^3 sC  
c >, O CC 
w g *-* COdw  few*M 3 XJ
 CO 
_r  
  si
God, and my crap. I 
think my crap is 
more important, 
personally.
'.eUirtij 
M6PVttWjUUT'lot rue 
rtreMer... 
%c*w.
DiW : I Wvi 
Wmm kid of 
wWrt.
i^v
-fYOU*'6, ltirW'<*eX*
5 r-i -
^assa
a
S.
oi^
%
rL00ngs 26 w4at4ud 2004.1

---------------------------------------------------

J.T. Trollman/Photo Editor
Drama majors get it on: Members of the Dance/Light Festival leave little to the imagination 
as they expose their talents at the Rauh Studio Theater.
. '< -v ~ ;f. $ -t S. - $  :
