rOL. 42No. 3CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1948
ene Krupa9s Band Coming To CIT
Semi-Formal Homecoming Dance 
Will Climax Exciting WeekendWiley Explains Plans 
For Improving IF
Fraternities Should Unite 
In Attack on Common Problems
Inter-fraternity Council should take upon itself the job 
)f actually governing the fraternities on the Carnegie Tech 
jampus, said Lee Wiley last week when he assumed the 
gavel as president of the council.
Wiley explained that the fra-*------------------------------------------------
ternities have many common 
jroblems and that in attacking 
them their efforts should be uniied.
The first step to be taken will 
De the removal of some contradic
tions from the organizations con
stitution. This was started in our 
first meeting last week and is be
ing handled by Stan Siegal, treas
urer.
Another of the major problems 
ifacing IF, according to Wiley, is that the representatives to the 
council, usually the president of 
each fraternity, do not agree on 
Jiow much authority their respec
tive houses delegate to them.
This has in the past resulted in 
hamstringing the operations of the 
council on minor issues on which 
agreement could not quickly be 
reached. A poll was taken last 
week to determine the sentiment of fraternity men on setting up a 
more workable system.
Another innovation being in
troduced in the IF meetings this 
year, Wiley went on, is a dis
cussion period at the end of each 
meeting in which opinions can be 
expressed more freely and ideas 
exchanged more easily than un
der rules of pariamentary pro
cedure. This exchange of ideas 
should prove helpful to all the 
houses.To quiet any fears that a 
stronger, faster moving IF council 
might ignore the wishes or best 
interests of the individual frater
nity members, Wiley emphasized 
that he and the IF representatives 
are not trying to force any ac
tion down the throats of the fra
ternity men, as any action must be 
spontaneous on the part of the 
men. But they are trying to make 
the men aware of their position 
on this campus and to accept the 
responsibility commensurate with 
that position.
The fraternities are all striv
ing for a practical means of 
strengthening IF in its own 
sphere, Wiley went on, but this 
is not meant to usurp the powers 
of any other student group, or to 
challenge outside organizations, 
but rather it is an attempt to meet 
the fraternities, problems more 
efficiently. But it is to be done through their own strength rather 
than through outside influence.Our overall purpose, Wiley 
concluded, is to make the indi[Continued on page 4]
Pep Squad
An organizational meeting for 
Carnegie Techs Pep Squad will 
be held at 4:30 on Friday, Oc
tober 1, in Thistle hall.
All students, especially fresh
men, who are interested in 
working on the publicity, bon
fire, parade, or other commit
tees should attend.
Members of the Pep Squad 
will be given reserved seats at 
all of Carnegies home football 
games.
Team Sendoff
To provide the football team 
with a rousing sendoff to its 
first game in St. Louis against 
Washington university, a pep 
rally will be held in front of 
Skibo tomorrow evening, Sep
tember 30, at 7:15 p. m.
The Kiltie Band will be at 
the rally, as will the cheerleading squad. All students are urg
ed to be present.
First Chapel
Chapel services will begin 
for this year ih the Little Thea
tre of Fine Arts on Tuesday, 
October 5, at 11:30 a. m. Dr. B. 
von Haller Gilmer, head of the 
department of psychology and 
education, will speak on the 
subject Personal Adjustment and Religion.
Gene Krupa, whose band will play at Homecoming Dance
14 Professors And Instructors 
Are Added To CIT Faculty
Dr, Emile Gruriberg Of Baden, Austria 
Named Assistant Professor Of Economics
Two assistant professors and 
twelve instructors have recently 
been added to the faculty of Carnegie Tech.
The new assistant professors are 
Kathryn H. Francis of Shaker 
Heights, Cleveland, Ohio, who has 
been named assistant professor in
First Council Meeting Today 
Brings Up Unfinished Business
NSA, Key Decisions Likely To Be Deferred;
Budgets, Homecoming Plans Also On Agenda
Who has a solution to the key problem? This is the question Stu
dent Council will be asked this afternoon. Council will hold its first 
meeting of the school year at the Union this afternoon, with no
solution to the problem of keys in sight.
A report from other schools concerning their methods of re
warding workers in activities has not yet been compiled and little
may be said on the subject in Council this afternoon.
Another question left undecided^-------------------------------------------------
by the last Council concerns NSA. 
No formal report on the subject 
will be heard this week as Councilmen Meyers and Hall have not 
yet received the complete minutes 
of the NSA convention which they 
attended last summer. The only 
word from them was that they 
were sure that the accusations 
about Communist infiltration in 
NSA were completely without 
grounds.
Included in the routine business 
to be transacted at the meeting 
will be budget approvals and a re
port on Homecoming.
Bennard Perlman, decorations 
chairman, plans to propose a pur
chase of eight flats to cover the 
remaining girders in the gym for 
the social events held there. He 
will also attempt to coordinate the 
plans of the decorating chairmen 
of the various social functions held 
in the gym. Perlman believes a 
great deal of waste can be avoided 
in this way.
Lee Wiley, publications chair
man, reports that Council will 
keep a close eye on the financial 
affairs of publications but will try 
to interfere as little as possible 
otherwise.
Vince Prus, Council President
Reports from several councilmen on the key situation brought 
out no promising solutions. Ben
nard Perlman commented, The 
key situation is far from solved, 
but it is the best method anyone 
[Continued on page 4]
home economics, and Dr, Emile 
Grunberg of Baden, Austria, who 
has been named assistant profes
sor of economics. Miss Francis is 
a graduate of Western Reserve 
university and received her M.S. 
in Education from Purdue univer
sity. She comes to CIT from the 
University of Minnesota. Dr. 
Grunberg graduated from the Uni
versity of Frankfurt with a mas
ters degree, and later received his 
Ph.D. from the same school. He 
has served on the faculties of the 
University of Chicago, University 
of Kansas City, University of 
Akron, and the New School for Social Research.
Three of the new instructors 
have joined the history depart
ment. They are Robert Schwarz, 
a graduate of Emory university 
and Syracuse university, and former research assistant at the Uni
versity of Wisconsin; David A. 
Shannon, who received a Ph.D. 
degree from University of Wis
consin, and Thomas T. Helde, who 
received both his B.A. and M.A. 
degrees at Yale, where he was formerly an instructor.
Lincoln Wolfenstein, formerly 
with the National Advisory Committe for Aeronautics, has been 
named instructor in physics. He 
received his B.S. and M.S. degrees 
from the University of Chicago.
William A. Nelson will join the 
drama department as an instruc
tor in stage lighting. Nelson grad
uated from Yale universitys de
partment of drama and served as 
lighting technician there.
Appointed as instructors in Eng
lish were Earle R. Swank, who 
received his A.B. from Muhlen
berg college and his M.A. front 
Harvard, and George E. Schindlef, 
Jr., who has served as a part-time 
instructor at Tech and received 
his B.S. from the University of Chicago.
Margaret Zipp, who received her 
B.S. from New Jersey College for 
Women and her M.A. from the 
University of Pittsburgh, has be
come an instructor in general sci
ence. Evelyn Aldridge served as 
[Continued on page 4]
Walt Harper 
Is Signed For 
Friday Evening
Gene Krupas new band, 
playing music sweet and 
smooth for dancing, will high
light the events of CITs 
Homecoming. With music de
signed expressly for dancing, 
although not excluding an occa
sional number for listening only, 
Krupa and his orchestra will en
tertain Carnegie students at the 
semi-formal dance to be held the 
second night of Homecoming, Sat
urday, October 16.
On Friday night Walt Harper 
and his orchestra, featuring the 
lyrics of vocalist Tiny Irwin, will 
play at a strictly informal dance. 
Both dances will be held in the 
gym between the hours of 9 p. m. 
and 1 a. m. in the gym. Arrange
ments have been made for serv
ing refreshments in Thistle hall.
Decorations in the gym on each 
Members of Delta Skull, ScimiMembers of Delta Skull, Schimitars, Cwens, Citcom Clan, and 
Mens Dorm council, who are 
sponsoring the weekend under the 
supervision of Student Council, 
are working to coniplete prepara
tions for the two themes, each 
planned to add to the festive spirit 
of the dances.
In addition to fraternity break
fasts to be held after the Saturday 
night dance, Mens Dorm council 
is planning a breakfast which 
many non-fraternity couples are 
expected to attend. Dormitory 
women have been extended signouts for 3:00 a. m. Saturday night 
and 1:30 a. m. Friday night.
Only a limited number of tick
ets are available to students for 
the dances because of space limi
tations and the expectation of a 
large alumni attendance. These 
tickets will go on sale this week 
in Skibo. Each ticket, which will 
admit a couple to both dances, 
will cost $4.75 including tax.
Sororities 
Begin Rushing 
Soph Women
Rushing by the seven women's 
fraternities began last week at 
the Pan-Hellenic reception in the 
Carnegie Union. All upperclass 
women, except transfer students, were invited.
After the reception, at which all 
fraternities were represented, individual rushing began, and will 
continue until October 5.
Affairs for candidates have been limited to one party and one tea 
for each fraternity. The schedule 
for such events has been arrangJ ed to avoid conflicting dates.
Marie DelliGatti, president of Pan-Hellenic council, has an
nounced that any fraternity violating the rules set up by the 
council will be subject to penalty, 
at the discretion of Pan-Hellenic.
Rushees may pick up their bids 
at the Dean of Womens office after 10:30 a. m., October 5, and 
must reply with a written accept
ance or regret by 4:30 p. m. that same day.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1
Carnegie Tartan
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes St., Pittsburgh, Pa. TELEPHONE: SC. 4557; after hours MU. 5365, SC. 8951. Published weekly during the school year, except holidays 
nd examination periods, by the students of Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Editor-in-chief .................................................... Robert W. JohnsonBusiness Hauler ......................................................... Samuel MosesAssociate Editor ....................................................... Burton L. Epstein
Personnel Manager ...................................................... Jay H. Johnson
News EditorRobert Kubiak, Features EditorGerald E. Peck, Chief Copy EditorThomas P. Murray, Sports Editor__Paul Offermann, Makeup EditorRobert Cloud, Art Editor,_Russell F. Kulberg, Advertising ManagerArthur G. Zuch,
Circulation ManagerLewis S. Sternberg.Copy EditorPat Petrick, Headline EditorMyra-Jane Barry, Proof EditorJohn Braun, Makeup Asst.Francis Cody, Chief ReportersWilliam Johns, Bennard Perlman, Freder
ick C. Price, Mildred Teague, Alphonse Toppeto, Joseph Weinreich, Chief Sports ReporterBill Dorn, Chief Pho
tographerWilliam D. Benswanger.Copy StaffMary Cauffield, Robert Heckert, Analee Gelman, John Helmick.Features StaffRobert Charpie, A. Starke Drischell, Martin
Dorff, Carl Klahr. ,__genior ReporterF. R. Johnson, ReportersAinslie Bricker, 
Jo Crisanti, William Feeman, Frances Hamborsky, Camilla Hawthorne, Bea Patterson, Angela Pollis, Ruby Weisberg, Cab ReportersMarvinBachman, Hilda Chottiner, lna Jean 
Cohen, Jane Conner, Bee Potter, Catherine Rudy, Marian 
Schrag, Anita Tambellini, Nancy Will.Sports StaffWarren Lithgow, Robin Molney.Photography StaffRichard Deininger, Ames Penfield. Advertising StaffShirlee Goldenfeld, Marilyn Frykdahl, Leonard Smollen, Dave Stevenson, Circulation StaffMilton Sniderman, Malcolm Samakow, Dave Sterner, Herbert Stone 
SecretaryVirginia Steinbach, TypistsHelen Brody, Betty 
Jane Baur. ___________________________________
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL ^VERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 Madison 
Ave., New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
Entered as second class matter on Oct 4, ' 907 at the 
Post Office at Pittsburgh, Pa., under the Act of March 3, 
1879 Accepted for mailing at special rate at postage pro
vided io.- in the Act of February 28. 1925. Authorized Octo
ber 21, 1918. _______________
Editorials
Lets Junk Them
One big problem facing Council in its 
first meeting of the year is that of keys. The 
necessity of finding some alternative to the 
present system should be obvious by this time, 
for keys last year cost more than $800, no in
considerable sum.
If the key system had any merits to war
rant this large outlay, there would of course 
be no objection to it. But keys are not nec
essary morale factors in publications and sim
ilar activities. Students high enough in rank to 
get keys are so interested in their activity that 
the key has little if any effect on their con
tinuing in that activity.
The promise of keys may, as some claim, 
bring freshmen out for an activity, but in that 
case the true purpose of the activity is being 
subordinated to the pursuit of an intricate 
bauble.
If students are not trained to expect keys 
there is no need to give them.
v Dont Be Sorry
Once again we are going to get down on 
our knees and perform our annual task of 
begging freshmen commuters not to fall into 
the rut left by so many commuters before 
them.
We dont mean to imply that they have 
an easy task in getting into the life of the 
school to the same extent that those who live 
on the campus do. They dont. But for their 
own good, to use the well-worn expression, 
freshmen who are living at home should make 
an effort to get into some activity, if only one, 
but to get into something.
There have been so many commuters in 
the past, who, nearing the end of their col
lege careers, have decided that they were miss
ing a large part of college life and have de
termined to do something about that lack that 
we feel an obligation to warn the new town 
freshmen of that same pitfa^
How much easier it would have been had 
the realization come years earlier! But it is 
so easy, while living at home, while going out 
with the same old gang, while keeping the 
same pattern of existence, to go to college 
just as one goes to an office.
If college is truly to be a developing in
fluence in the lives of all CIT students, it must 
enter into those lives to a much greater 
extent than it can merely through classroom
Kilties Prepare 
For Fall Season
Carnegies Kiltie band is ready to strut. Try
outs of over 150 applicants, including 60 from 
the new freshman class, have boosted the mem
bership of the marching band to the limit of 82 
imposed by a shortage of uniforms.
With the exception of the ever-popular CIT 
and Scottie Dog formations, all the formations 
which the band will use this year will be entirely 
new.
Mr. William Schaefer, director of the band, has 
accomplished a better balance between sections of 
the band through placement of new men in posi
tions formerly unoccupied. Total membership in 
both the marching and concert bands, which have 
an interchange of players, is now 118.
Uniforms which the band will wear show the 
results of excellent repair work done on them over 
the summer. Under the leadership of Mrs. Doherty, 
a group of women greatly interested in the band 
completed a variety of repairs on tunics and skirts.
Preparation of the uniforms for the fall march
ing season was completed through the assistance 
of Mr. Robert Sivitz, an alumnus of CIT, who ar
ranged for the uniforms to be cleaned without cost 
to the band.
During half-time in the football game against 
Marietta college on October 9, the band will give 
its first formal performance of the season. Stu
dents are invited, however, to watch the first out
door rehearsal of the band today at 4:30 on the 
Cut.
Students Get Reduced 
Rates For Concerts
Carnegie students with limited budgets may now 
enjoy the variety of musical entertainment offer
ed by the May Beegle and Pittsburgh Orchestra 
concert series. Special rates enable students to 
purchase season tickets at half the regular price 
upon the presentation of their registration cards 
at the concert series headquarters in the Union 
Trust building.
During the 1948-49 season the May Beegle 
series will present eight concerts in Syria Mosque. 
Featured artists include Hilde Reggiani in the 
opera La Traviata, to be presented October 16; 
Lauritz Melchoir on November 20; Bartlett and 
Robertson, piano duo, on December 4; Ferrucio 
Tagliavini on January 22; the Ballet de Monte 
Carlo on February 5; Eleanor Steber on February 
19; Artur Rubinstein on April 2; and Lily Pons 
on February 28.
Three visiting orchestra concerts will be of
fered by the Pittsburgh Orchestra association. The 
orchestras and their conductors will also perform 
in Syria Mosque. They include the Boston Sympho
ny conducted by Serge Koussevitzky, on Tuesday, 
November 30; the Philadelphia Symphony, conduct
ed by Eugene Ormandy, on Monday, February 7; 
and the New York Philharmonic, conducted by 
Bruno Walter, on Saturday, April 30.
All concerts in both series will be evening 
performances. Except for Miss Pons, who will ap
pear on a Thursday, the May Beegle concerts are 
all scheduled for Saturday nights.
Registrar Reveals 
Enrollment Totals
The figures below summarize the registration 
statistics for CIT for the fall semester. They show 
a decided drop in total enrollment from last years 
peak of almost 3600. A breakdown is given by col
leges and by classes within the individual colleges.
Engineering and Grad. Sr. Jr. Soph. Fresh. Spec. TotalScience .....................224 444 393 360 355 3 1779
College of Fine Arts 13 204 143 158 193 9 720
Margaret MorrisonCarnegie College .. 29 108 126 141 141 24 569
Division of Humanistic& Social Studies .. 23 24 13 72 65 1 198
Carnegie Library
School .........................22 2 24
Totals ..............................311 780 675 731 754 39 3290
contact. This additional value can be gained 
through the many activities that exist here.
So we ask all freshmen, especially those 
of you who commute, to fight that inclination 
to consider college only a job and to realize 
that it is an experience to be lived and enjoyed. 
Enter at least one activity. You wont re
gret it.
What Do I Do Now ?
J. K. OHare Breaks The Jinx; 
He Wins In Two Elections
J. K. OHare has finally done it.
After having resigned himself to a career of being al
ways a vice-president, but never a president, J. K., as he is 
mysteriously known, finally hit the jackpot in the closing days 
of the spring semester when he was elected in quick succession 
to the two important posts of Spring Carnival general chair
man and president of the CIT4-------------------------------------------
chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, 
senior mens activities Honorary.
The double honor was a sharp 
reversal of form, since OHare had 
become quite used to being only 
a vice-president. He is now in his 
third term in that post in Student 
Council, having lost the presidential election to ince Prus last 
June despite the support he received from IAC, independent 
political organization.
However, when ODK met for 
its final meeting of last year, it 
was OHare who was elected to 
the two posts, both among the 
highest in the school. The Spring 
Carnival post is an especially re
sponsible one, since he will have 
the task of organizing the entire program for Carnegies annual 
holiday week.
OHares double election was particularly interesting because 
the group that elected him was 
strongly dominated by fraternity 
members, who might have been 
expected by some to have opposed rather than favored OHare, a 
wandering Greek, who joined 
Phi Delta Theta at Allegheny be
fore coming to CIT in 1946.
However, the honors given to 
J. K. can be attributed more to the universal respect in which 
he is held on the campus than to 
any other factors. He is now serv
ing on Student Council for his 
second consecutive term, and is 
vice-president of Council for the 
third consecutive semester.
Last March OHare was one of 
the four independent candidates, who, following a protest of an 
earlier election, were able to score 
an impressive success in being
mt
J. K. OHare
elected to Council with higher 
vote totals than any fraternity 
candidates.
Following OHares election as 
president of ODK, Stan Siegal was 
elected vice-president and Robert 
Johnson was elected secretary.
ODKs new president has an
nounced that the organization will 
call new members in the very near 
future. All men scholastically in 
the upper 35% of the senior class 
are eligible.
The formation of the Spring 
Carnival committee, one of the primary jobs of ODK, will not 
take place until the call is made 
and the organization is expanded 
from its present six active undergraduate members.___________
It's A Long Way 
To Tipperary 
But A Short Walk 
To The:
STUDENT BOOK EXCHANGE
3811 Fifth Avenue
You'll find the Tech Scottie on: ShaeHer Fine Line Pencils, 
School Pennants, Seal Stationery, Ring Books, Decals
OPEN 8:30 TO 6

---------------------------------------------------

WEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1948THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
Paul Off ermann V
Sportscope
More On Why We 
Cant Be Grade A 
Grid Power
Since the first issue of the Tartan appeared this year, we 
have received all sorts of opinions on this column, ranging from 
dirty looks to more agreeable comments. Two of the most fre
quent remarks made were: We seem to be against the building 
of good athletic teams at Carnegie. We were wrong in stating 
that a top football team doesnt gain financially.
Taking first things first, we would like 
| to go on record right now as being definitely 
in favor of building up athletics at Carnegie. 
But in the same breath we would like to voice 
our disapproval of building football teams as 
big as they can be built.
Carnegie can afford a good class B foot
ball team, the type of team that can consist
ently beat Lehigh, Fordham, St. Bonaventure,
Bucknell and teams of that type. This kind of 
team will certainly not affect the schools scholastic standing.
On the other hand, a class A team can and would affect 
the school seriously. There is only one way to field a top team, 
and that is to buy it. Regardless of what Penn, Michigan, 
Notre Dame or any other football leaders may claim, great 
football teams do not grow out of the ordinary student body. 
It is needless to mention the irreperable damage which Carnegie would suffer under such a policy.
The other complaintdisagreeing with our statement 
that top football teams do not gain financiallyis harder to
prove without all the facts we would like to have.
To begin with, here are some of the more elaborate ex
penses which athletic boards, endorsing commercial football, 
must overcome to relaize any profit at all: a stadium must be 
erected; a high priced coaching staff must be maintained; scouts 
must be employed; board, room, and tuition must be furnished 
for some fifty players making up the varsity team and for 
another thirty or so who are playing freshman ball; in most 
cases, if not in all, spending money is given to players; a 
good publicity staff is a must if the team is to draw at the 
turnstiles; and all of this still does not cover the dozens of 
other incidentals connected with big time football.
Of eourse, every once in a while a school may be expected 
to come out in the blackprobably as often as that school is 
invited to the Rose Bowl, the Sugar Bowl, or some such post 
season game which offers a huge guarantee.
In another issue we would like to discuss posibilities of 
Carnegie improving her grade of football to a class B level.
Theta Xis Defending Trophy 
As IM Football Season Opens
With the opening of the intra
mural football season next week, 
Theta Xi will inaugurate the de
fense of both its campus football 
championship and the coveted 
All-Points Trophy.
The TXs, traditionally a welldrilled outfit, have come up with 
another heavy supply of pledges 
to bolster a lineup already mark
ed by such standouts as Nels 
Greene, Frank Lee, and Hubert 
Ickes. The champions, however, 
lack the weight which gave them 
a stellar running attack last year 
and will probably be forced to 
call more frequently upon the 
fine passing arm of Greene.
Nevertheless, Tau Delta Phi 
has its sights set on regaining the 
gridiron crown which they held 
in 1946. Under the guidance of 
Don Rubenfield the Tau Deltas ap
pear as a serious threat to TX su
premacy.Pi Kappa Alpha title hopes re
ceived a serious blow last Thurs
day when hard driving Mike Cos
ta suffered a fractured collar bone 
in a practice session. Coach Ernie
Cassler, however, has continued 
drills, building around backs Lew 
Heiles and Sam Highberger and 
end Rick Johnsbn.
The Kappa Sigs must start from 
scratch with only captain Frank 
Motter and Bill Hood returning 
from last years squad, while Phi 
Kappas captain, Jack Collins, is 
also looking towards support from 
the new pledges.
Delta Upsilon expects to field a 
strong team captained by Bill 
Koch and sparked by John Barr, 
Jim Killiland, and Roger Aten 
among others. Nor can the Beta 
Sig, ATO, DelC Beta, SAE, or Sigma Nu teams be counted out 
of the race for all have been hold
ing long, hard practice sessions 
since the opening of classes.
On the independent front both 
Citcom and Emanon loom as pos
sible successors to the throne. The 
Emanons, still smarting from last 
years all-points loss to the TXs, are pointing towards establishing 
an early lead over their fraternity 
rivals this year. *7 S'l L/ _________________ft
3 Hour Dry Cleaning
Raincoats Showerproofed
Quick Laundry Service
CAMPUS CLEANERS
4609 Forbes St.MUseum 1288
Tartans Spirit High As 
Team Heads For St. Louis
Sendoff For 
Football Squad 
Tomorrow7:15 p. m. 
In Front of Skibo
* Varsity Scrimmages Duquesne 
In Preparation For Opener
Heading into the final week of practice before opening 
the football season against Washington, Coach Bill Donohoe 
has expressed great hopes in this years team. Most of these 
hopes are founded on the Tartans fine showing in a scrim
mage game with second and third teams from Duquesne last 
Thursday.
Especially encouraging was the line-play. From tackle to
-?tackle Carnegie should hold itsHell Take Care of Your Bruises
Walt Willoughby and Joe Rapoport
Walt Willoughby bent over the bruised player who lay on the 
table before him. His quick, capable hands moved with confidence 
as he tried to ease the pains that shot through the tired muscles. 
In his mind, however, were thoughts of the hundreds of men over 
the country who are without the benefits of a trainer, men who be
cause of insufficient equipment#- 
and coaching receive serious in
juries which are often aggravated 
by improper care.
There is a reason for these 
thoughts in the back of Willoughbys mind. His own football career 
was cut short by a rib injury in a high school game at which 
there was no one to care proper
ly for him. And now, Walt Jr. is playing his final season in the 
Mt. Lebanon high school line.
Football is no rougher than most other sports if properly play
ed, the new Carnegie trainer said as he continued his work, .but 
too many players are needlessly 
injured. He nodded his head to
ward the apparatus in the corner and proudly pointed out the ad
vantages of the new dithermy ma
chine which was at work on John
ny Williamsons thigh. He added 
laughingly, We even get some studying done here, as Wiillamson glared over the top of a Soc Rel book.
The trainers day starts at 3:00 p. m. when the players come in
for heat treatments under the infrared lamp or the diathermy ma
chine, both of which are designed to promote the healing of in
juries tissues. Massaging and tap
ing precede the scrimmage which 
the trainer must attend in order to administer any necessary first aid. 
A session of cleansing and band
aging minor wounds closes out his days work.
A trainers job is merely to aid [Continued on page 4]
own with any of the lines it will 
be called upon to face this fall. 
And it is not a 60-minute line 
either, for there are a good half 
dozen substitutes who will see 
plenty of action during the course 
of each game.
At ends you can have your pick 
of Johnny Williamson, Fritz Wil
son or Bob Dougherty, all fine 
pass catchers and all first team 
material. Vince Donato, another 
end, may help solve the difficulty 
encountered last year with weak 
defensive flanking.
In the backfield its another 
tossup. Jack Magnifico, Nick Simcic, Ray Warner, and Bobby Som
mers will probably start, but no
body should be the least surprised 
if Arne Oberg, Don Armour, John
ny Luchok, and Wes Kenney take 
the field instead.
In the remaining days of prac
tice before entraining for St. Louis 
on Friday morning, the coaching 
staff will be endeavoring to sharp
en up the pass defensedefin
itely the weakest spot on the 
team.
Here is how they will probably 
line up in St. Louis on Saturday:
Ends: Williamson, Wilson,
Dougherty, Donato; Tackles: Mey
ers, Keats, Madden, Hoffman; 
Guards: Stovicek, Wiseman, Maxton, Neilan, Norton; Centers: 
Windish, Karamas, Trautman.
Quarterbacks: Magnifico, Oberg; 
Left Halfback: Simcic, Armour; 
Right Halfback: Warner, Luchok; 
Fullback: Sommers Kenney.
SUNDAES
SANDWICHES
MILKSHAKES
   si*   Seemiller's Forbes and Craig
STUDENTS!
You have a TREAT right in your own backyard 
For Your Evening Pleasure
DON METZ
IS DEVOTING HIS LARGE DINING ROOM
To TECH and PITT Students
For Evening Entertainment and Dancing 
AT STUDENT BUDGET PRICES 
Make This Your Place For Lunch and Evening Enjoyment
LUNCH AS LOW AS 55cNO COVER AND NO MINIMUM
3802 FORBES STREET

---------------------------------------------------

4THE CARNEGIE TRTANWEDNESDAY, SEPTEMBER 29, 1948
fOU CW
0
(YptwRvttR'
III Dance Af your Wedding ''
MAY BEEGLE CONCERTS
DELUXE SERIES - 8 EVENINGS AT SYRIA MOSQUE
Opera "LA TRAVIATA" 
LAURITZ MELCHIOR 
BARTLETT & ROBERTSON 
TAGLIAVINI
SERIES
Oct. 16, Nov. 20, Dec. 4, Jar
MONTE CARLO BALLET 
ELEANOR STEBER 
RUBINSTEIN 
LILY PONS
DATES:
i. 22, Feb. 5, 19, April 2, 28
SPECIAL STUDENT RATE SALE NOW ON 
At May Beegle Concerts99 Offices
551-52 Union Trust Bldg. Until October 9 
Student Rates for 7 Events: $7.80, $9.10, $11.70, $13.00 (Tax Included)
SYMPHONY CONCERTS-3 EVES, at SYRIA MOSQUE
Tnes., Nov. 30
BOSTON SYMPHONY
Kpussevitzky, Cond.
' , \ Saturday, 
1J NEW YORK PHILHAI
Bruno Wa
Student Rates: $1.95, $2.60, $ Pittsburgh Orchestra Assn. Off
To Secure These Rates, Present 1
Mon., Feb. 7
PHILADELPHIA ORCH.Ormandy, Cond.
April 30
KMONIC SYMPHONYIter, Cond.
3.25, $4.55 (Tax Included) at ices 551-52 Union Trust Bids.
four Student Identification Card.
fertriqAmerica's fnesl latent.% HEADLINE STAUS?ihl CA sna-iuno-saiEN ili
SYRIA
MOSQUE
Tnes. Eve., Oct. 5
Dorm Council 
Plans Dance
October 2 Dance Free 
To All Dorm Residents
Mens Dorm council is planning 
the first orchestra dance of the 
fall social season, an informal 
dance in Thistle hall, on Satur
day evening, October 2 from 9:00 
until 1:00. Music will be furnish
ed by a five-piece band under the 
direction of Bob Eller.
Dorm Council hopes that the 
dance will serve as a means of 
introducing the dorm residents to 
each other.
Although the dance has been 
planned primarily to introduce 
freshmen and transfers to dor
mitory activities, the affair is 
free to all residents of the mens 
dormitories.
Faculty Additions
[Continued from page one] 
a graduate assistant in institution 
management at Cornell and has 
become an instructor in home eco
nomics.
The secretarial department has 
two new appointees. They are 
Betty Lloyd and Evelyn C. MacNeill, both Carnegie graduates.
Another CIT graduate to become 
an instructor is Stephen James 
Kubisak who has been serving as 
part-time instructor in drawing 
and design.
Samuel P. Dieli, a graduate of 
the University of Wisconsin with 
both B.A. and M.A. degrees, be
comes instructor in modern lan
guages. Dieli served during World 
War II as an OSS agent.
IF Council
[Continued from page 1J 
vidual member feel that he is part 
of a very large, strong group in 
the campus social and extra-cur
ricular life that at the present is 
unable to speak clearly and frank
ly for itself.
i At the IF council meeting last 
Week A1 Mitchell of Sigma Nu 
and Robert Paustian of Delta Upsilon were elected respectively to 
the positions of vice-president and 
secretary. Wiley and Siegal were 
confirmed in the posts of presi
dent and treasurer. \ >
Special Lunches for 
Students and Businessmen
11:00 A. M.2:00 P. M. 40c and UP
AUTHENTIC CHINESE DISHES
also
AMERICAN DISHES SERYED
Bamboo Gardens
3531 FORBES STREET 
MA. 7493
Let's go to
ISALY'S
Milk Shakes 
Big Ice Cream Cones 
Klondikes 
Tasty Lundies
Three Stores In the College District
5808 Firkis Strut 8alml HH1 
3714 Fertee Street OakJaad
3380 Baalevard if the Allies
Debating Club 
Holds Meeting
All new and prospective debat
ers in any of the three colleges 
are invited to the Debating clubs 
first meeting, to be held in Car
negie Union today at 4:30. No ex
perience is necessary in order to 
join the club.
Although last year the group met 
various local college teams as well 
as Tulane, Vermont university, Penn State, and W & J at many 
tournaments, this will be its first year of formal organization after 
war-time inactivity. Participation in a series of debates with Duquesne and other local schools is planned.
Student Council
[Continued from page one] 
has found to date. Lee Wiley 
thinks keys are a slap in the face 
to students working on activities 
just because of their interest in them.
Comments about NSA were uni
formly unfavorable. Councilman 
Perlman believes NSA will cost 
us too much money for the little 
good it can do us. Vincent Prus, 
president of Student Council, 
warns, NSA will cost us a great 
deal of money. We must be sure 
that it will do us enough good to 
merit the expense. Lee Wiley 
cannot see that NSA will help us to any great extent.
The new constitution is still to 
be ratified, but it is doubtful that 
this subject will be brought up at 
todays meeting.
Tennis Touraments 
To Begin Next Week
Tennis players are invited to 
take part in two tournaments 
which will start on Monday, Oc
tober 4. Any student may take 
part in the all-school tourney, but 
tennis letter winners are prohibit
ed from entering the intramural 
tournament. Application blanks 
may be secured from Mr. Moses in 
the gym and must be turned in 
by Friday, October 1.  .
N E ;/
University Recreation 
BOWLING
Under New Management
AFTERNOON BOWLING
407-409 Craig Street
MAyflower 2998
Willoughby
[Continued from page three] 
nature, Willoughby explained, 
not to diagnose and cure injur
ies. The new Tartan healer fol
lows this doctrine without exception. His knowledge of physio
therapy acquired at Bellevue hos
pital in New York together with 
his five years of experience as as
sistant at Pitt have already prov
ed invaluable along these lines.Recalling his days in the Panther dressing rooms he pointed out 
the different spirit which prevails at Carnegie. The boys here seem 
eager to play. This years team has 
fine possibilities, and Im extreme
ly optimistic about our chances.'Then he turned again to the 
massaging table and started to 
work on another athlete.
For That Quick Bite, the
SPORT CENTER GRILL,t.
3813 Fifth Avenue | if
Fast Service and Good Food 
IDEAL FOR LUNCH
SCHENLEY 
HAND LAUNDRY
418 South Craig Street 
2 DAY SERVICE 
Darning and Mending Free
Save Money
CIGARETTES
CHESTERFIELD
CAMELS yinLUCKY STRIKE Ik PB 0,14
PHILLIP MORRIS   I WOLD GOLD ~ S
PALL MALL SRALEIGH 
TAREYTON
PER CARTON 
Premium Brands Slightly Higher Add 6c per carton for shipping and handling zone No. 3 MINIMUM ORDER .. 5 CARTONS Enclose Your Card For Gift Wrapping 
GUARANTEED DELIVERY Operating Under Delaware State 
License No. 3998 Send CHECK or MONEY ORDER only DEPT. 550
ALLISON TOBACCO CO.
Post Office Box 1006 
Wilmington, Delaware

Freshmen Meet Deans Miner, Dickinson, Campbell, and David at 
Reception on Monday Evening, Sept. 20
Frosh Manual 
Lost In Mail
Many upperclassmen are won
dering what became of the tradi
tional freshman handbook usual
ly available at registration. The 
sad truth is that an attractive 
handbook, completed by the TriPublications staff, was lost in the 
mail.
In the meantime, in order to 
present to freshmen information 
necessary for the Traditions exam, 
a brief substitute has been mime
ographed and is now available in 
the office of the Dean of Men.
Traditions Exam
The Freshman Traditions exam 
will be given on Thursday, Octo
ber 7, at 4:30 p. m. instead of on 
October 5 as reported in last 
weeks Tartan. All freshmen must 
pass with a 70% grade or par
ticipation in activities will be de
nied them. Next weeks Tartan 
will announce the clace of the examination. j Vf ~1 y
SQUIRREL HILL 
HOBBY SHOP
Closest Hobby Shop 
to Tech
Balsa Wood
and
Model Builders Supplies
2210 Murray Avenue
Below Phillips 
(68 or 69 Streetcar)
EXPERT REPAIRS
RADIOS, PHONOGRAPHS, APPLIANCES
Sales and Service
LEWIS RADIO 
ELECTRIC CO.
1123 OAKLAND AVE. MA. 4211
Bring Your Radio Problems 
To Us
22 YEARS EXPERIENCB
At Your Service
OAKLAND'S FINEST RESTAURANT
3814 FORBES ST.
Good seats NOW $1.30, $1.95, 
$2.60, $3.25, $3.90 (Incl. Tax) at Gimbels, Hornes and May 
Beegle Concerts, 551 - 52 Union Trust Bldg. (AT 3783)
COOD FOOD ANYTIME
CLOCK2/
