FORUMPILLBOX
Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
Student designers shine at Lunar Gala  B8
SCITECH
Researchers look at creative collaborations  A6Snapchat not an excuse to share explicit photos  A5
thetartan.org
@thetartan
February 18, 2013
Volume 107, Issue 18
Scam warning for CMU campus areaCMU Arts Pass program under review
LAUREN WILLIAMS 
Junior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon University student government is 
currently sponsoring a survey 
to measure the usage of the 
Arts Pass Program. The Arts 
Pass Program offers students 
free admission to museums 
and venues throughout Pittsburgh, including Carnegie 
Museum of Art, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Carnegie Science Center, Carnegie 
Science Centers Highmark 
SportsWorks, the Andy Warhol Museum, the Mattress 
Factory, the National Aviary, 
and Phipps Conservatory and 
Botanical Gardens. Students 
can gain free access simply by 
showing their Carnegie Mellon Student ID card, and the 
museum or venue then bills 
Carnegie Mellon per student 
visit.
The program is sponsored by the Student Dormitory Council, Student Senate, 
Graduate Student Assembly, 
CFA Deans Of?ce, and the 
Of?ce of the Dean of Student 
Affairs. 
Without the Arts Pass, student admission to these locations costs anywhere between 
$10 and $20.
ALVIN MATHEW 
Junior Staffwriter
Many Carnegie Mellon 
University students have recently been targeted by an 
individual soliciting money 
in the Oakland area. The 
suspect, described as an 
African-American woman,  has reportedly been 
fabricating stories to solicit 
money from students and 
Pittsburgh residents.
The suspect, who appears to be in her 40s, has 
been seen driving a purple 
Chrysler Sebring sedan and 
a black Chevrolet Blazer SUV 
in the Oakland area, as well 
as a silver Toyota Camry and 
a minivan. Carnegie Mellon 
University Police, University 
of Pittsburgh Police, and the 
Pittsburgh Bureau of Police 
have been trying to stop her, 
but they need assistance.
According to lieutenant 
Gary Scheimer, the university has had issues with the 
suspect since 2011. 
Scheimer noted that the 
suspect has posed as various individuals, including a 
?ight attendant who ran out 
of gas, someone who had 
to go to a hospital, among 
others.
Although it seems that the 
students approached were 
not susceptible to the scam, 
the suspect has allegedly 
been very convincing. 
According to police reports, the woman stays in her 
car and fakes a breakdown. 
She is persistent and has 
even given her cell phone 
number and had people go 
to ATMs. Furthermore, she 
has commonly brought along 
a young boy of about 3 or 4 
years old, whom she calls her 
son, to manipulate individuals into helping her out.
Already, there have been 
dozens of cases of people being scammed. She has been 
spotted throughout the Oakland and Squirrel Hill area, 
and University of Pittsburgh 
Police have also been trying 
to thwart her attempts. Most 
recently, she has attempted to 
get money from individuals 
in the Squirrel Hill area.
Scheimer noted that in August 2011, University Police 
chief Thomas Ogden sent out 
an email to the entire campus 
community warning people 
about the woman. Shes 
stopped a couple times, 
Scheimer said, but then reappears. University Police 
already knows the identity 
of the woman; she has been 
given a De?ant Trespass Order by Carnegie Mellon that 
warns her against continuing 
her activity. But this has not 
stopped her from continuing 
to harass people in the area.
Most recently, a female 
student from Squirrel Hill 
emailed the police about an 
African-American woman in 
a car who stopped her and 
asked for cash. 
Carnegie Mellon of?cer 
Daniel Janeda notes that 
the woman is highly skilled 
at her craft, and her use of a 
3-year-old child during her 
attempts makes people compassionate to want to help 
her. Despite some awareness about this woman, she 
has remained very effective 
in her attempts.
According to Scheimer, 
the woman has been tried 
in court multiple times. 
Scheimer said that a University of Pittsburgh detective has 
?led charges against her, and 
she is due in court soon. However, past charges against the 
woman have been dismissed 
multiple times because victims are not willing to spend 
valuable time and effort prosecuting a woman who did not 
steal much money from them 
in the ?rst place. She usually 
will take small amounts of 
cash, occasionally soliciting 
$50 from a victim.
Another part of the problem with prosecuting her has 
been that some feel her only 
crime is lying, which would 
not warrant a major penalty. 
Janeda notes there is a slippery slope because shes asking for money.
However, Scheimer feels 
a line has been crossed with 
the particular individual because she is partaking in a 
coercive action with theft by 
scam, so its just a matter of 
getting victims to come testify. The fact that she has 
also disregarded the De?ant 
Trespass Order will help the 
police build a case against 
her in a future trial. The poTown hall maps out direction in search for new VP, CFO
JACKSON LANE 
Senior Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Vice President of Campus Affairs Michael Murphy 
took questions from members of the university community during an open town 
hall meeting on the progress 
of the universitys vice-president & chief ?nancial of?cer 
(VP/CFO) search committees efforts last Thursday.
The VP/CFO search committee consists of 17 university faculty and staff members 
and was established following former chief ?nancial of?cer Deb Moons departure in 
late 2012. 
Murphy currently chairs 
the committee and also 
serves as interim VP/CFO until a successor is named.
The town hall follows the 
universitys public posting of 
the open vicepresident and 
chief ?nancial of?cer position 
on several public job boards.
 The university is also 
contracting with executive 
search consulting ?rm Storbeck/Pimentel & Associates 
to aid with less publically visible forms of recruitment.
Commenting on Storbeck/
Pimentels role in the search, 
Murphy noted, Often people 
dont want to be identi?ed 
as candidates, particularly if 
theyre currently in high pro?le positions.
Storbeck/Pimentel also 
facilitated Carnegie Mellons 
recent recruitment of Subra 
Suresh as its new president.
As the VP/CFO search 
committee now begins to 
consider applications received in response to these 
public job postings and from 
Storbeck/Pimentel, Murphy 
emphasized that the purpose 
of the town hall was to hear 
your thoughts about the position and to make sure that 
as we move forward, we have 
your input. 
With that, Murphy posed 
three discussion questions 
for the audience before opening up the ?oor to questions: 
What are the great reasons 
to come to Carnegie Mellon? 
What are the challenges of 
the VP/CFO position? And 
what are some of the core 
qualities that committee 
should be looking for in candidates?
Attendance at the open 
town hall consisted primarily of other members on the 
search committee, who both 
asked questions as audience 
members and joined Murphy in answering  questions 
posed by the attendees.
The town hall sparked a 
great deal of discussion in 
particular about how the 
committee should weigh entrepreneurship and business 
skills against previous experience in higher education. 
According to Murphy, 
the university has generally only recruited executives from higher education 
backgrounds, such as retiring 
president Jared Cohon, who 
worked at Yale University and 
Johns Hopkins University. 
We tend to presume that 
the ideal candidate will come 
in with an understanding and 
enthusiasm [for]  the structure of a large private institution like Carnegie Mellon, 
said Murphy.
However, as audience 
member and Vice Provost 
for Education Amy Burkert, 
pointed out, [Carnegie Mellons] aspirations and the 
league in which we want 
to play is much higher than 
what the university actually 
has these resources to do, 
and it wont be a walk in park 
for CFO to navigate this reality constantly.
Carnegie Mellons endowment of $1 billion is a fraction of the endowments of 
the other private institutions 
in its peer group. 
Were always looking at 
our peers and seeing how 
with the endowment draw 
and gifts that they get, they 
can pay for things that we 
cant afford, observed BarObama for America scientist speaks
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
You dont need to solve 
the entire problem to do 
something useful, Obama 
for America chief scientist 
Rayid Ghani told the packed 
audience in the Gates Hillman Complexs Rashid Auditorium on Thursday. A Carnegie Mellon graduate, Ghani 
faced a problem that was easy 
to phrase but hard to solve: 
Where should the Obama 
2012 presidential campaign 
put its money, advertisements, and volunteers in order to maximize its chances of 
getting the 270 electoral votes 
necessary to win the election?
Ghani  and the rest of the 
Obama campaigns technical 
staff, headed by chief technology of?cer Harper Reed and 
chief innovation and integration of?cer Michael Slaby  
solved the problem with data 
mining and machine learning.
 We used a lot of heuristics 
because we had to solve the 
problem before the election. 
We could have spent years on 
this thing. But this is an example of other problems ... very 
similar in nature that a lot of 
you guys are capable of solving.
Ghani ?rst discussed how 
the campaign identi?ed the 
states in which money would 
be most effectively spent.
Thats the reason data and 
machine learning and analytics are so important: because 
its all about resource allocation, Ghani said. I have a 
limited amount of resources 
and I need to spend them in 
different states to maximize 
my chances of getting 270 
votes. We had a lot of money 
but its still ?nite, and you can 
only put it in so many places.
But the most important decisions, Ghani said, took place 
not at the state level, but at 
the individual level. Im not 
taking actions in a state. Im 
not trying to convince a state 
to register to vote. Every action a campaign takes is at a 
very individual level, with a 
couple of exceptions.
According to Ghani, the 
campaign made contact with 
about 135 million people via 
phone calls and door-to-door 
canvassing. They used data 
from publicly available voting 
Photo illustration by Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager
The Arts Pass program allows Carnegie Mellon students free access to museums and art galleries all around Pittsburgh.
See ARTS, A3
See CRIME, A3See SCIENTIST, A3
See SEARCH, A3
Photo by Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor 
Members of the university community discuss issues surrounding the selection process for a new VP and CFO. 

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  February 18, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
In the article Senate discusses spring trip funding (Feb. 
11, News) it was reported that the JFC could potentially fund 
up to 5 percent of travel costs for organizations. This ?gure 
should be 50 percent.
The photo accompanying the article Psychologists study 
brain after injury (Feb. 11, Science & Technology) was credited to Wikimedia Commons. It should be courtesy of Nathanial 
Burton-Bradford via Flickr.
In the article Police make arrest in response to high number of thefts (Jan. 28, News) the theft at Kappa Alpha Theta 
house was reported as stolen cash, but a laptop was stolen instead.
NEWS IN BRIEFMorewood Gardens visited by dogs
WEATHER
Alcohol Amnesty 
Feb. 9, 2013
University Police were 
called to Hamerschlag House 
to respond to a female heard 
screaming from inside a room. 
Upon arrival, of?cers located 
an intoxicated female in her 
boyfriends room. She was 
treated and left in her boyfriends care. Alcohol Amnesty 
was applied to this incident.
Underage Drinking
Feb. 9, 2013
A student contacted University Police concerning the 
whereabouts of his intoxicated roommate. The police 
located the male after searching the area with a description 
provided by the males roommate. The male was found 
sleeping in lobby of Fairfax 
Apartments. The male is being 
cited for underage drinking.
Underage Drinking 
Feb. 10, 2013
A University Police of?cer 
on patrol noticed an intoxicated student who was attempting to vomit near the 
intersection of Forbes Avenue 
and Beeler Street. The of?cer 
stopped the female student 
and her two friends who stated they were attempting to get 
her home safely. The student 
will be cited for underage 
drinking.
Alcohol Amnesty
Feb. 10, 2013
University Police along 
with campus EMS were summoned to the Alpha Pi Epsilon 
Fraternity house in response 
to an intoxicated student. The 
student was evaluated and 
left in the care of roommates. 
Alcohol Amnesty applied to 
this incident.
Theft
Feb. 10, 2013
The police were summoned 
to the Residence on Fifth regarding the theft of a wallet. 
A student stated that she left 
her purse in a study lounge 
on the fourth ?oor. When she 
returned to retrieve her purse, 
she discovered that someone 
had stolen her wallet.
Domestic Situation 
Feb. 12, 2013
A Carnegie Mellon escort 
and shuttle driver observed a 
domestic situation occuring in 
the Morewood Gardens parking lot. The male and female, 
both students, stated that 
they were ?ghting over relationship problems. Neither 
individual was injured. Both 
individuals were advised to 
go to their separate residences 
and cease contact with one 
another. Student Life will follow up with both students.
Harassment/Assault
Feb. 13, 2013
University Police responded to a kitchen area at the 
University Center where an 
employee caused a loud disturbance while arguing with 
her supervisor and physically 
struck her supervisor. There 
was no injury. The employee 
was gone upon police arrival. 
Her employment has been terminated and she is receiving a 
citation for harassment.
Campus Crime & Incident Reports
The event Puppy Love brought dogs to visit the entrance of the Morewood Gardens residence last Wednesday. Students who attended got to play 
with the dogs, meet members of the Morewood staff and community, and eat some hot dogs and assorted free food.
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Research by Carnegie 
Mellon alumnus James Bursley (DC 12) and Northeastern University student Ajay B. 
Satpute yielded surprising results about unconscious brain 
activity. Brain imaging studies conducted at Carnegie 
Mellon showed that decisionmaking parts of the brain remain active despite preoccupation with other tasks.
This research begins to 
chip away at the mystery of 
our unconscious brains and 
decision-making, said J. David Creswell, assistant professor of psychology and director of the Health & Human 
Performance Laboratory, in a 
university press release.
It shows that brain regions important for decision-making remain active 
even while our brains may 
be simultaneously engaged 
in unrelated tasks, such as 
thinking about a math problem. Whats most intriguing about this ?nding is that 
participants did not have any 
awareness that their brains 
were still working on the decision problem while they 
were engaged in an unrelated 
task, he said.
Bursleys research was 
conducted on 27 healthy 
adults, whose brains had 
been monitored when given 
a decision while still juggling 
multiple other tasks.
In order to carry out his 
research, Bursley received 
a Small Undergraduate Research Grant (SURG) and 
Summer Undergraduate Research Fellowship (SURF)  
from the university.He also 
received a Rothberg Research 
Award in Human Brain 
Imaging.
The research conducted 
was published in the journal 
Social Cognitive and Affective Neuroscience. 
Research studies brains decision making
Teacher awarded Einstein Professorship
Edmund Clarke, university professor of computer 
science and electrical and 
computer engineering, was 
named Einstein Professor for 
2013 by the Chinese Academy of Sciences.
According to a university press release, The Einstein Professorship Program 
hopes to enhance the training of future generations of 
Chinese scientists through 
exchanges with Einstein professors and current top Chinese scientists. Each year, 
the Chinese Academy of Sciences invites 20 scientists 
and technologists to present 
their work in China in order 
to interact with faculty and 
students.
Clarke was acknowledged 
for his work as a pioneer of 
model checking  an automated method for ?nding 
design errors in computer 
hardware and software in 
2007 when the Association 
for Computing Machinery 
awarded him the Turing 
Award.
Clarke also directs the 
National Science Foundations Computational Modeling and Analysis of Complex 
Systems project, which gave 
a new perspective on embedded computer systems, and 
other diseases like cancer. 
Clarke received a bachelors degree in mathematics from the University of 
Virginia, a masters degree 
in mathematics from Duke 
University, and a Ph.D. in 
computer science from Cornell University. He has also 
taught at Harvard University 
and Duke University.
Elections boardSpring break trip funding discussionMoney allocations
STUDENT SENATE MEETING MINUTES
FRIDAY
High / Low
42 / 37
SATURDAY
High / Low
41 / 30
SUNDAY
High / Low
38 / 34
TUESDAY
High / Low
39 / 22
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
25 / 18
THURSDAY
High / Low
30 / 26
Five members of the 
Undergraduate Student 
Senate along with Graduate School Assembly representatives were elected 
as chairs of the elections 
board. These individuals 
will oversee the student 
body elections process. This 
board will have support 
from people specializing in 
technology as well as in the 
relevant rules and regulations. Compiled by
BRENT HEARD
Compiled by
NOL UM
Student Senate funding of 
spring break travel expenses 
was a topic of signi?cant 
discussion, largely resulting 
from the decision by the Joint 
Funding Committee to cut 
all funding for spring break 
travel last year. 
Organizations that have 
had dif?culty raising funds 
have petitioned Student Senate for the money, and are 
being heard on a case-by-case 
basis. 
After a discussion about 
the Senates responsiblity to 
student organizations, speci?c petitions were heard.
The Senate currently funds 
50 percent of travel costs for 
an organization, and is making decisions based on the 
potential value that the speci?c spring break trip would 
bring to the university.
Election bylaws
The speci?c language regarding bylaw changes is currently being drafted. There 
will be no limits on campaign 
funds, however, there will be 
a limitation on things that 
can be given out as part of a 
campaign. There will be a $1 
limitation on gifts, and a $500 
total spending limit on gifts. 
The rules that prevent study 
abroad students and outgoing 
seniors from voting are currently being reviewed.
Elections timeline
Petitions to run for Senator or an executive position 
were released last Friday, 
and petitions can be on paper or online. To run for 
executive, president, or 
vice-president, at least 100 
signatures are required from 
across all colleges during 
the petitioning period. To 
run for Senator, at least 25 
signatures are required from 
the undergraduate college 
one is running to represent. 
Petitions are due March 4.
Allocations were made 
to the Lacrosse Team and 
Global Medical Brigades 
for $8,000 to cover travel 
expenses, in addition to 
$2,500 to CMU Bhangra to 
cover their travel expenses. 
An allocation of $3,000 was 
made for the Global Business Brigade for Panama, 
along with $800 to the Chinese Student Association. 
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
bara Morycz, committee 
member and Assistant Vice 
President of Budget and Financial Planning. 
But weve been fortunate 
enough to be able to ?nd creative sources of funding for 
things that dont just naturally fall into our laps out of 
the budget.
Given how the 2008 economic crisis and the possibilities of federal spending sequestration have 
exacerbated this discrepancy 
between Carnegie Mellons 
ambitions and its available 
resources, committee member and professor of philosophy Joel Smith posed 
the question of whether a 
particular candidates entrepreneurship skills merited 
additional consideration in 
this process.
If candidates present 
themselves as coming from 
a very entrepreneurial background and can think creatively about ?nancial situations. Can that experience 
make up for a lack of experience in higher ed? Smith 
asked.
Murphy announced that 
the committee will be reviewing applications starting 
in March. 
They expect to narrow 
down candidates to a list 
of three ?nalists by the ?rst 
week of May. 
The start date for the new 
vice president and chief ?-
nancial of?cer selection is 
slated for July 1, the same 
day that Suresh is set to take 
of?ce as Carnegie Mellons 
ninth president. 
forms. 
Each person the campaign 
came into contact with was 
assigned three scores: one indicating his or her support for 
President Obama, one indicating his or her ability to be 
persuaded, and one indicating 
the likelihood that he or she 
would vote at all.
The campaign performed 
small experiments to determine what factors made a person likely to be persuaded in 
either direction. 
They drew data on support 
from polling, as well as from 
proxy data such as party af?liation.
 Once individuals had been 
scored, the campaign was able 
to ef?ciently target people 
who could be persuaded or 
convinced to vote for Obama 
 and not waste money on 
those who were unlikely to 
vote or switch sides.
The campaign also used 
the individual scores to target 
communities. 
The nice thing about doing everything at an individual 
level: You can aggregate up, 
Ghani said. You can easily aggregate up and calculate the 
number of votes youre going 
to get from a particular zip 
code.
Ghani said that the campaign used individual scores 
to make decisions about canvassing, online ads, and television ads.
In addition to getting voters, part of Ghanis job was to 
?nd ways to raise more money. To do so, the campaign 
performed many small, controlled experiments with fundraising emails.
It wasnt enough to build a 
model and just watch and see 
what happened, Ghani said. 
You had to convince somebody to do that work. You 
couldnt just say that its going to work, so go ahead and 
do it. We had to almost prove 
everything using randomized 
experiments.
These studies determined 
whether emails that came 
from First Lady Michelle 
Obama were more successful 
than those from Obama campaign manager Jim Messina. 
It also determined whether 
emails should have a link in 
them, and how much the campaign should ask of a particular person in order to maximize their contribution.
One result of the experiments surprised Ghani.
In the beginning, when 
I started the campaign, I 
thought we were sending too 
many emails to people, Ghani 
said.
He worried that bombarding people with too many 
emails would cause them to 
unsubscribe. 
But, he said, experiments 
proved him wrong.
Turns out, every time we 
did an experiment reducing 
the email frequency, we lost 
money, he commented.
Ghanis lecture was wellattended by machine learning 
students, most of whom were 
excited to hear from someone 
using machine learning in the 
?eld.
I liked that he was really 
using machine learning to address a problem that is a practical problem, said Edward 
McFowland III, a machine 
learning Ph.D. student in 
Heinz College. 
Its really a practical application of machine learning. 
I think we motivate a lot of our 
machine learning algorithms 
with practical applications, 
but rarely do we actually go 
out and apply our algorithms 
to the actual problems, see 
them working in real life.
Machine learning Ph.D. 
student Alex Loewi agreed. 
It felt vindicating. We 
work on this with the conception that it will be useful, and 
very rarely feel like it actually 
is.
Ghani was one of the ?rst 
people to receive a masters 
degree in machine learning 
from Carnegie Mellon.
Machine learning alumnus Rayid Ghani presents lecture
Student government has 
been looking into changing 
the program and sent out the 
recent survey administered 
by Carnegie Mellons Of?ce 
of Institutional Research to 
improve their current data. 
Surveys were emailed to the 
student body this past week. 
As an incentive for participation, students who completed 
the survey were entered into 
a raf?e to win one of two 
Amazon Kindle Fires. Student 
body president Will Weiner 
said, Were trying to understand the landscape. We dont 
necessarily know why people 
are using Arts Pass, how well 
people are informed about 
Arts Pass, and what are the 
things people would like to 
see.
The survey included questions measuring students 
awareness of the Arts Pass 
program and how frequently 
they used their Carnegie Mellon ID to gain access to included venues and programs, 
among other options.
Potential changes to the 
program include partnering 
with Pittsburgh Connections 
or expanding the pass to include more artistic rather 
than museum-like venues, 
such as galleries or Benedum 
Center shows. Theres a 
whole spectrum out there 
thats not being tapped, 
Weiner said.
Senior biology major 
Mridula Nadamuni frequently 
uses the pass and thinks that 
Carnegie Mellon should continue to sponsor the program. 
It has made my Pittsburgh 
experience more interesting, 
she said.
Additionally, the pass can 
be a valuable resource for students new to the Pittsburgh 
region. Sophomore biology 
and psychology double major Matthew Early said, As 
someone who is not originally 
from Pittsburgh, the Arts Pass 
Program has provided a great 
opportunity to experience 
the local culture. More students should consider using 
it as way of enriching their 
time here. Nadamuni added, 
Freshmen need to get off 
campus. They think CMU is 
Pittsburgh. Its not Pittsburgh, 
its just a part of Pittsburgh.
Changes, however, are not 
going to take place in the near 
future. 
According to Weiner, Its 
pretty up in the air right now. 
Were not necessarily sure 
what we want to change, or if 
we want to change anything.
lice believe the woman has 
been so convincing that not 
every case has been reported, 
as individuals have thought 
she legitimately needed help.
Je-Hoon Oh, a ?rst-year 
chemistry major, was glad to 
have been alerted to this ongoing scam, noting that he 
believed the womans actions 
to be classless.
University Police ask students to be vigilant and aware 
of this womans behavior. Regarding the variety of vehicles 
the woman has used, the police urge students and faculty 
to understand that she may be 
driving in other vehicles. 
She usually pulls up to 
curbs to provoke her wouldbe victims; she likely prefers 
staying in her car so she can 
?ee quickly if necessary.
Many Carnegie Mellon 
students have already heard 
of this issue and have known 
friends who were solicited by 
the woman. 
However, newer students are unaware of the 
solicitation. 
Reaction to the scam was 
that of concern. 
Sam Farley, a ?rstyear chemistry major, was 
shocked. Wow, thats weird. 
Im concerned for the child, 
actually, he said.
Yassine Mouline, a ?rstyear electrical and computer 
engineering and biomedical 
engineering double major, 
agreed with this sentiment, 
saying, Thats completely 
messed up.
If you see this woman and 
you are not in any danger of 
harm, the police ask that you 
call University Police if you 
are on campus and the Pittsburgh Police (911) if you are 
not.
Try to discern where she is 
going and the make and model of the vehicle she is driving. 
If you are given the womans number, you can verify 
it belongs to her by going to 
www.800notes.com. 
Janeda, however, stresses 
that safety is number one 
for anyone who comes in contact with the perpetrator. 
Police just need a student 
to come forward and be willing to aid them in their quest 
to prevent this woman from 
pestering individuals in the 
area.
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
Ghani graduated from Carnegie Mellon with a masters degree in machine learning. He applied these skills to his work for the Obama campaign.
VP, CFO selection discussedArts Pass program studied
CMU area targeted in scam
Annette Ko/Art Editor
SCIENTIST, from A1
ARTS, from A1SEARCH, from A1
CRIME, from A1

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
A4  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  February 18, 2013
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
KYLE HENSON
Senator Daylin Leach (D-Pa.) 
recently proposed a bill to the Pennsylvania state legislature to legalize 
the possession of small amounts of 
marijuana. Its about time. Since 
states like Washington and Colorado 
legalized weed in the last election, 
the rest of the country, Pennsylvania 
included, needs to follow suit.
I cant think of one good reason 
why marijuana should be illegal. According to The Economist, cannabis 
is signi?cantly less harmful than 
both alcohol and tobacco, two legal 
drugs. Overdosing on marijuana is 
unheard of, whereas getting sick 
from drinking  better known as alcohol poisoning  is something that 
many college students experience at 
least once in their lives. Regarding 
tobacco, smoking causes cancer and 
endangers others via second and 
thirdhand smoke, which lingers in 
fabric and furniture.
One common argument against 
marijuana is that its a gateway drug 
which leads to the consumption of 
other, more harmful drugs such as 
heroin and cocaine. While this may 
be true regarding marijuana now, it 
wont be true if its legalized. If registered businesses sold marijuana, 
it would be taken off of the street 
and removed from the culture that 
surrounds other, more dangerous 
drugs. Legalization would add a layer of separation between marijuana 
and the other drugs that its a supposed gateway to.
Along with other arguments 
against marijuana, people claim 
that having high drivers on the road 
would be particularly dangerous. Yet 
theres no reason that this couldnt 
be illegal like drunk driving.
Furthermore, a study done by 
two economists af?liated with the 
University of Colorado and the University of Michigan found that high 
drivers are safer than their drunk 
counterparts. While drunk drivers swerve and speed, high drivers 
wait for stop signs to turn green. Although they are still not preferable 
to those not under the in?uence, 
people who would otherwise drive 
drunk might drive high instead if 
marijuana were legal, keeping us a 
bit safer.
Another oft-argued bene?t to 
the legalization of marijuana is 
increased revenue for the government. By slapping excise taxes on 
marijuana, the government can 
gain massive amounts of revenue. 
This could be used to solve a lot of 
the budget shortfalls our state is facing. Another bene?t to legalizing 
marijuana would be the advent of 
organic marijuana. As unregulated 
as marijuana is, it can be exposed to 
many harmful chemicals while being grown. This unnecessarily adds 
health risks to your friendly neighborhood stoners. Marijuana users 
could opt to grow their own weed 
in a safe manner, or buy from storefronts regulated by the Food and 
Drug Administration.
The criminalization of marijuana 
has also caused unnecessary strain 
on our justice system. It is an absolute injustice that even one cop has 
died trying to prevent the sale of 
marijuana. We need to better utilize our resources to prevent violent 
crimes and keep real criminals off of 
the street. 
Many people incarcerated for 
selling marijuana dont actually 
want to break the law or hurt other 
people. Theyre not truly a danger to 
society and they regularly cost our 
justice system tons of money. The 
legalization of marijuana would get 
these supposed criminals out of our 
justice system and open up more resources for preventing actual harmful crimes.
The bill to legalize marijuana is 
not likely to succeed due to Republican opposition and minimal Democratic support. Even if it does pass, 
governor Tom Corbett (R-Pa.) has 
said that hed veto this bill. In Pennsylvania, where all liquor stores are 
run by the state, its ridiculous that 
we cant authorize private possession of a simple and mostly harmless 
herb.
Kyle Henson (kahenson@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
No need for marijuana to remain illegal in Pa.
JFC must give students more time to join The Bridge
East Liberty renovations do not account for residents
Harvard University announced 
its investigation into allegations of 
cheating for the ?nal exam of its Introduction to Congress course in August 2012. Over half of the class was 
initially accused. In early February, 
the university announced their ?nal 
decisions regarding the fates of the 
students accused of cheating. 
Professor Matthew Platt grew 
suspicious when many exams were 
similar. Some exams even had the 
same typos. Students were accused 
of collaboration or plagiarism, and 
many were recently forced to withdraw. Some students are now on 
probation and lost credits for courses 
that they had almost completed during the Fall 2012 semester.
However, the case is not that simple. Academic integrity ultimately 
rests on the shoulders of students, 
but professors and their assistants 
also play a role in ensuring the clarity of what constitutes cheating.
The course Introduction to Congress has a reputation of being an 
exceedingly easy class, which, according to students, Platt openly acknowledged. According to a student, 
Platt said, I gave out 120 A's last semester, and I'll give out 120 more. 
He told students that coming to lecture was not necessary, as they could 
share notes. Many accused students 
claim that the similarities in the ?nal 
tests come from these notes.
Some students claimed that the 
prompt for the exam  which was a 
take-home test  was confusing. 
It read: The exam is completely 
open book, open note, open internet, 
etc. However, in all other regards, 
this should fall under similar guidelines that apply to in-class exams. 
More speci?cally, students may not 
discuss the exam with others  this 
includes resident tutors, writing centers, etc. 
Despite these guidelines, Platt 
and the teaching fellows held of?ce 
hours before the exam was due, in 
which they discussed the questions. 
If the directions stated that students could not talk about the exam, 
the instructors should have consistently upheld that rule.
Furthermore, the exam was the 
last of four take-home tests for the 
class. The students received similar 
instructions on all of those tests, but 
had collaborated on the ?rst three 
without reprisal. Once again, consistency should have been a priority.
Academic honesty seems obvious, but each teacher has different 
standards for his or her class. Teachers must make those rules explicitly 
clear, and then stand by them.
The Joint Funding Committee 
(JFC), the student group that allocates revenue from the student activities fee to campus organizations, 
recently stated that it would use The 
Bridge to help decide how the revenue is divided among organizations 
for the 2013-14 academic year.
The Bridge is an online tool that 
connects students to organizations 
and events on campus. Students 
can join organizations through 
The Bridge, which lists members of 
groups publicly. The JFC says it will 
consider the number of students 
listed in an organization when determining budgets.
While The Bridge has the potential to accurately measure organization membership, the JFC could have 
given organizations more time to allow members to join the website.
Because The Bridge is fairly new, 
many organization leaders do not 
use the website. Organization membership on The Bridge often does not 
accurately represent true membership since most students do not join 
their respective extracurricular activities' pages.
While the JFC encouraged organization leaders to have their members join their respective organizations on The Bridge, they did not 
provide ample time for organizations 
to contact their members. 
Many organizations meet weekly, 
and some do not regularly schedule 
meetings. The email informing organizations to contact their members 
was sent on Tuesday. Budget considerations began Friday. With less than 
a week for organizations to contact 
members, leaders may not have 
been able to tell members to join The 
Bridge.
Short on time, some organizations also ?ocked to Facebook and 
email in an attempt to increase membership by telling students who are 
not currently members to join them 
on The Bridge. 
With the possibility that students 
joined organizations they do not 
belong to, budgets could be misallocated.
Admittedly, the JFC had good intentions to count organization membership, and its method for allocating funds may have caused more 
students to use The Bridge. But we 
urge the JFC to give students more 
time to join their respective organizations on The Bridge so that budgets can be allocated to campus organizations as accurately as possible.
Annette Ko/Art Editor, art based off photo from The Bridge website
Since Steve Mosites founded The 
Mosites Company in 1992, the company has attempted to rejuvenate 
East Liberty. Now, the company that 
pulled Target and Whole Foods into 
East Liberty (and built Rivers Casino 
and Heinz Field) in order to generate commerce in Pittsburgh seeks 
to continue its job. According to the 
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, Mosites is 
promising to add a 366-unit apartment complex, a great deal of retail stores, and a new transit center 
across from the Target in East Liberty 
by mid-2014.
The previous and current renovations to East Liberty are bene?cial 
to the citys growth; however, The 
Tartan is unable to endorse Mosites 
plan because it does not take into account the cost of living for the areas 
current population. 
The companys plan for new retail 
stores may interfere with the lives 
of the areas residents. These plans 
include renovating the territory 
on Centre Avenue and Penn Circle 
South to add residential-type shops. 
Although it is admirable that Mosites 
is attempting to renovate the area, it 
has not taken into account the local 
shops and venues already there.
More importantly, renovations 
and the inclusion of retail stores will 
most likely increase housing costs. 
Currently, 20 percent of the people 
who live in the ZIP code 15206, 
which includes East Liberty, live below the national poverty level, according to the 2010 census. 
The areas median household income is $35,205 while the median 
household income across the country is $46,326.
According to city-data.com, the 
median rent in East Liberty was 
$421, a full $151 less than the average rent in Pittsburgh, as of 2009. In 
an area with a population largely below the poverty line, increased costs 
are unacceptable.
Rising housing costs may leave 
many residents, as well as the students from Carnegie Mellon living 
in the area, scrambling to ?nd either 
money or a new place to live. 
We hope that these supposedly 
speedy renovations will keep in mind 
the lives of the current residents in 
the district.Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Harvard scandal reveals need for increased clarity
Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Stacey Chin, Greg 
Hanneman, Jackson Lane, Alan Vangpat
COPY
Swathi Anand, Sawsan Boutemine, Matt Brown, 
Nivedita Chopra, Ellie Erlich, Blaine Greenberg, 
Jordyn Greenberg,  Chris Han, Satvika Neti, 
Sage Po, Taylor Rawley, Julia Yang
ADVERTISING
Kyle Henson, Gretchen Tan
BUSINESS
Desiree Xu
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Personnel Manager
BRENT HEARD *
News Co-Editor
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NOEL M
News Co-Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
GABRIELLE WEST
Sports Co-Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
CARMEN KHOO
Business Manager
KELLY HARRINGTON
Asst. Systems Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
BONITA LEUNG
Asst. Copy Editor
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Asst. News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
ALLISON COSBY *
Contributing Editor
EMILY DOBLER
Contributing Editor
MADELYN GLYMOUR
Contributing Editor
CHRISTA HESTER
Contributing Editor
ANNA WALSH
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
 2012 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
February 18, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A5
Compiled by Justin McGown and Kelsey Scott
The Oscars are almost here. So we asked,
What is your favorite guilty pleasure movie?
SATVIKA NETI
Junior Staffwriter
One of the most historical moments of recent years was the killing of Osama bin Laden. Everyone 
remembers the shooting of the Al 
Qaeda leader and the global rami?cations of this clandestine operation. Nearly two years ago, bin Ladens death created an international 
chasm between the United States 
and Pakistan. The details of his killing, however, have revealed a ?aw 
within our own nation that goes 
beyond international relations: the 
subpar treatment of our veterans.
In a recent Esquire interview, the 
U.S. Navy SEAL who killed bin Laden came forward to speak about the 
militarys support  or lack thereof 
 for him and his family. Referred to 
as the Shooter, he resigned three 
years before the 20 years of service 
required to guarantee retirement 
bene?ts such as healthcare and pension. When he asked to be given protection for his family, the military 
offered to put him in a quasi-witness 
protection program but offered him 
no further assistance.
The Shooters story of the militarys poor treatment could seem 
as though he is seeking preferential 
treatment for being the one to kill 
bin Laden. People may argue that 
service members who resign before 
their terms are over cannot reasonably expect to receive full bene?ts. 
Although his decision to resign prematurely in order to protect his family is understandable, that decision 
carried consequences that were to 
be expected.
Despite this discrepancy, the story still highlights serious problems 
within the veterans bene?ts system.
Every combat veteran of the Iraq 
and Afghanistan wars is entitled to 
?ve years of free healthcare after 
returning from service. No matter when the Shooter resigned, the 
Department of Veteran Affairs (VA) 
should have given him these bene?ts. However, he was not informed 
of this policy. His ?led disability 
claim with the VA has also been in 
backlog for several months.
The Shooter is not the only victim of a convoluted system; gaining 
bene?ts from the VA is rarely simple. 
Bureaucracy and inef?ciency combine to form a mountain of red tape 
that veterans must wade through. 
After their service to our country, 
these loyal men and women should 
be treated with more consideration. 
As President Obama said last Veterans Day, No one who ?ghts for this 
country overseas should ever have 
to ?ght for a job, or a roof over their 
head.
While the Shooters belief that he 
deserves the same bene?ts as someone who has served 20 years may be 
presumptuous, the problem is that 
some people who have served their 
time do not receive their deserved 
bene?ts because of how dif?cult the 
bureaucracy can be.
There is something seriously 
wrong with a system that would 
abandon its constituents, however 
impersonally. This abandonment is 
a treatment endured by many service members less notable than the 
Shooter. They are all people that 
have risked their lives to protect and 
serve the United States.
I just want to be able to pay all 
those bills, take care of my kids, and 
work from there, the Shooter said, 
and he should be able to.
Veterans hardship shows need for bene?ts reform
JOSH SMITH
The dangers of sharing sexual 
photos or sending sexually explicit 
text messages always grab the attention of news outlets nowadays. New 
technology has an undeniable effect on how people ?irt and to what 
extent people share themselves. 
The issue has come up again with a 
seemingly harmless smartphone application known as Snapchat.
Snapchat ?rst launched in 2011, 
but it only truly became popular in 
the second half of 2012. The application allows you to take pictures, decorate them, and send them to other 
friends who use the application. The 
hook, though, is that the recipient 
of a photo can only view it for a set 
time period (no more than 10 seconds) before it disappears from the 
phone. If a screenshot is taken while 
the photo is being viewed, the sender 
of the photo will be alerted and can 
take actions accordingly.
While the above description 
sounds like the perfect criterion for a 
carefree sexting application, responsibility doesnt rest on the applications creators to police the application content to prevent sexting.
The lack of stored photos is what 
sets the application apart from other 
photo-sharing services, and is what 
many people think could appeal to 
those who want to share racy photos 
without them circulating past the intended recipient. It can come off as a 
fun, safe way to sext, with a reduced 
fear of the pictures haunting you for 
years to come.
Facebook, as it is apt to do whenever a new web trend goes viral, 
created an application called Poke. 
Essentially copying the Snapchat 
model, Poke never took off, while 
Snapchat is currently the 20th most 
popular free application in the 
iTunes App Store. Being af?liated 
with the largest social network for 
sharing information and photos with 
friends may have turned people off 
from using a service meant to share 
private photos and videos.
Given the popularity of Snapchat, 
many concerns have been raised 
over its potential use as a sexting 
tool, especially when considering its 
young demographic. The mascot of 
Snapchat is a cartoon ghost, named 
Ghostface Chillah according to 
Forbes, and the images on the companys website and application page 
are of preteen girls. Theres an apparent effort by the creators to appeal to 
the young demographic, but this becomes perverted if the applications 
rumored uses are utilized.
However, it cannot be the companys responsibility to stop its users 
from sexting with the application, 
any more than its the responsibility 
of the inventor of the camera phone 
to prevent sexting. What needs to 
happen is increased education on the 
pitfalls of sexting.
People, especially minors, need 
to be made aware that no matter the 
medium, anything that is shared and 
stored digitally can live forever. According to BuzzFeed, there are ways 
to ?nd locally-stored Snapchat photos on your phone in order to save 
them forever. This poses a risk to 
anyone who would use the application for sharing suggestive material.
You cant expect anything you do 
on the Internet to be temporary, and 
thus Snapchats promise cant be a 
guarantee. There will always be individuals who try to hack services and 
applications to get what they want, 
which includes your naughty photos. 
However, users can prevent others 
from sharing their photos by not taking naughty photos in the ?rst place.
Snapchat, while seemingly juvenile, has both its fun purposes as well 
as its risqu uses. Using Snapchat for 
tame things can be entertaining, as 
Ive found with my growing use of 
the application, and the idea that it 
is purely a sexting application should 
be dispelled. The issue of sending 
racy photos isnt with the application, but with the user who is uneducated about the dangers and consequences of sexting.
Josh Smith (jjs1@) is editor-in-chief of 
The Tartan.
Suggestive photos could haunt you
Give off-campus housing  a chance
KAVITA MEHTA
Junior Staffwriter
Last week, The Tartan printed 
Catherine Spences Consider campus living, in which she argues that 
on-campus housing is more bene?cial than off-campus housing for 
students. There are pros and cons to 
living on and off campus. However, I 
do not agree with some of Spences 
arguments, including her main one: 
I think off-campus housing is better 
than on-campus housing.
Spence states that bathroom necessities are always at ones disposal 
on campus. However, toilet paper, 
paper towels, and soap are not re?lled every day in the communal 
bathrooms of on-campus housing. 
On the other hand, students who 
live off campus can personally ensure that they do not run into this 
problem by storing extra bathroom 
necessities.
While it is true that the universitys Facilities Management Services 
will not be there to ?x a broken window, door, or chair off campus, every 
housing unit has a landlord to call if 
anything is wrong. If you do your research correctly (through online reviews and peoples word of mouth), 
you could even ?nd a landlord who 
responds to maintenance requests 
faster than the university. Thus, even 
if Facilities Management Services 
does not come off campus to repair 
damaged items, a specialist provided 
by the landlord will.
In her article, Spence acknowledges the most common argument 
for living off campus: Since there is 
no option to live on campus in real 
life, people should move off campus 
and get used to it now. She argues 
that people should not do this until 
they must. However, living off campus really does provide invaluable 
preparation for the real world. It 
teaches students life responsibilities 
while they still have the ?nancial and 
psychological safety net provided by 
parents and the university.
Students living off campus will 
not be less informed about campus 
activities compared to students living on campus. Most students living 
off campus are at school for the majority of their days attending classes, 
visiting Club Hunt, or participating 
in extracurricular activities. Somewhere, somehow, those students will 
hear the same news that students living on campus hear.
Besides, off-campus housing usually offers more space to students. 
They do not have to be cooped up 
in small dormitory rooms throughout their entire college experience. 
While on-campus dorm sizes range 
from Hamerschlag Houses standard 
doubles to Mudge Houses prime 
quads, off-campus housing de?nitely 
gives students more room to spread 
out their belongings and relax.
Even though on-campus housing 
is more convenient for students in 
terms of proximity and promotes a 
certain sense of community, the pros 
of off-campus housing evidently outweigh the pros of on-campus housing. There is no reason for students 
to pay more living on campus when 
they could have a better college experience living off campus while 
learning to be more responsible.
Rishab Khemka
Math
First-year
Anchorman.
Shana Singh
Materials Science
First-year
Gladiator.
Ian Neft
Mechanical Engineering 
First-year
Rush Hour.
Mishq Laliwala
Art 
Sophomore
Love Actually.
Zane Hintzman
Computer Science 
Junior
Princess Mononoke.
Everyone 
remembers the 
shooting of the 
Al Qaeda leader 
and the global 
rami?cations of 
the clandestine 
operation.
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
Tammy Ying/Junior Artist

---------------------------------------------------

A6  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  February 18, 2013
NIHARIKA SINGH
Junior Staffwriter
Many people would agree 
that food is one of the great 
pleasures of life. However, 
one of the principle tools we 
use to eat  our teeth  are 
poorly rewarded for the work 
they perform. In return for 
their work in crushing food 
and enabling us to eat all 
sorts of delicious substances, 
they are attacked by acid and 
dental bacteria. Fortunately, 
toothpaste can help mitigate 
the harmful effects that can 
befall teeth. This commonplace substance contains 
many ingredients that give it 
its potency and make it so essential to dental health.
According to researchers 
at New York University, toothpaste is not a recent invention; 
humans realized long ago the 
importance of keeping teeth 
clean and healthy. This substance originated about 6000 
years ago in several forms. In 
China, twigs, ?ower petals, 
salt, water, and bones were 
mashed and put on the end of 
a sharp bamboo leaf to apply 
to teeth. In Egypt, salt, pepper, mint leaves, and iris ?owers were mixed into a paste 
and used. In India, twigs from 
trees known for special dental 
properties were chewed upon 
and rubbed against teeth. All 
these methods led to healthy 
teeth that did not suffer from 
dental problems.
Now, lets brush up on the 
science (pun intended) behind dental problems with 
some help from dental.net. 
Our teeth are made of layers; 
the outermost one is comprised of hard enamel. This 
hard substance protects the 
softer inside and nerves of 
our teeth. When taken care 
of, this enamel can last us 
an entire lifetime. However, 
modern-day diets that are 
extremely high in sugars and 
carbohydrates can cause several dental problems.
Sugars and carbohydrates 
release sulfur molecules that 
are responsible for dreaded 
bad breath. In addition, these 
substances are consumed by 
bacteria living in the teeth 
and enable them to multiply 
quickly. These bacteria release acids that eat away at 
enamel. If the enamel erodes, 
it exposes the nerves underneath which can lead to extreme pain and discomfort. 
Also, if the acid keeps building up, it may reach the root 
and render the tooth useless. 
The bacteria that cause all 
these problems live in plaque 
and food debris in our teeth. 
Toothpaste can help remove 
these bacteria, helping to prevent several dental problems.
According to thefactsabout.
co.uk, one of the most wellknown ingredients in toothpaste is ?uoride. This element 
is naturally found in several 
foods like tea, ?sh, vegetables, 
and fruits. It is necessary for 
healthy teeth as it helps draw 
in minerals like calcium to the 
enamel and helps repair the 
tooth. Fluoride also attaches 
itself to weakened parts of the 
tooth, which keeps the tooth 
stronger in the future. These 
properties of ?uoride are also 
the reason it is added to water 
supplies, and has been instrumental in improving the dental health of most people in 
the last few decades.
In addition to ?uoride, 
toothpastes also contain other 
common materials. Toothpaste can contain abrasives, 
which help remove plaque 
and polish the teeth. These 
abrasives need to be able 
to scrub away harmful substances without causing permanent damage to the tooth 
enamel. 
Toothpaste also contains 
detergents, which give rise to 
the foam created while brushing. Toothpaste manufacturers also give importance to 
the texture of toothpaste. Humectants are the substances 
used to ensure that toothpaste stays moist and doesnt 
dry out while in the tube. 
Thickeners are used to make 
the toothpaste stick together 
when squeezed from the tube 
and stick to the brush. Finally, preservatives and ?avors 
ensure that toothpaste stays 
fresh and is enticing to users 
no matter what their taste 
preferences might be.
With the variety and styles 
of toothpaste available to us 
today, it is possible for everyone to ?nd a type suited to 
their exact needs. The various 
bene?ts of toothpaste make it 
an essential part of our lives. 
Now, if only we could all ?oss 
regularly too.
Psychologists reveal algorithm behind eHarmony
Psychologists at eHarmony, a matchmaking website, 
are arguing a claim made 
by a psychology journal that 
matchmaking sites do not 
use valid algorithms to pair 
people together. The sites senior research scientist, Gian 
C. Gonzaga, recently spoke 
at the Society for Personality and Social Psychology to 
explain how the algorithm 
works. 
According to Gonzaga, 
six main factors are used 
to determine two individuals compatibility: level of 
agreeableness, preference 
for closeness with a partner, 
degree of sexual and romantic passion, level of extroversion and openness to new experience, the importance of 
spirituality, and ones level of 
happiness and optimism. The 
more similarities two people 
have in these categories, the 
more likely they are to develop a relationship, according 
to Gonzaga.
Source: Science Daily  
Dogs are able to recognize other dogs on screen
According to a research 
team led by Dr. Dominique 
Autier-Drian from the National Veterinary School in 
Lyon in France, dogs can differentiate between non-dog 
and dog faces. Researchers 
showed nine domestic dogs 
144 pairs of pictures of various animal faces, including 
human faces, on a computer 
screen. 
They observed that all nine 
dogs were able to recognize 
their own species, despite 
the large variety of breeds. 
This result demonstrates that 
dogs are able to group various 
dog breeds into one category, 
based only on visual cues. 
This is particularly impressive because, with over 400 
known breeds, dogs have the 
largest morphological variety among all animal species. 
The researchers concluded 
that mating between breeds 
was still possible, despite the 
species being stretched to its 
morphological limits.
Source: Science Daily
Apple may be developing new wristwatch
Rumors that Apple is 
working on a new wristwatch 
made of curved glass have 
been con?rmed by unnamed 
Apple insiders. The watch 
may operate on Apples iOS 
platform. Corning Glass Technologies, the company that 
manufactures the extremely 
durable Gorilla Glass used in 
iPhones, has recently developed Willow Glass, a glass 
that is as bendable as piece of 
paper.  
While there is much secrecy regarding the details 
of Apples potential new 
wristwatch, Peter Bocko, the 
chief technology of?cer for 
Corning Glass Technologies, 
con?rmed that Willow Glass 
is ?exible enough to bend 
around a wrist like a watch. 
Like Google Glass, a new 
watch by Apple could bring 
us even closer to wearable 
computing. So far, however, 
the technology giant has remained silent on the issue.
Source: Discovery News
FDA approves arti?cial retina that 
gives vision to blind
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has recently approved a new technology, called the arti?cial 
retina, that can give limited 
vision to people who are 
blind. The arti?cial retina, 
which has been under development for over 20 years, is a 
sheet of electrodes implanted 
in the eye. 
The arti?cial retina is 
part of a system called Argus 
II  that includes glasses that 
have an attached camera and 
a portable video processor allow visual signals to bypass 
the damaged portion of the 
retina and be transmitted to 
the brain. Although the arti?cial retina does not give the 
blind person real vision, it allows him or her to make out 
boundaries and identify outlines of objects, particularly 
those with a large contrast in 
lightness and darkness.
Source: The New York Times
Disabled turtle receives new set of prosthetic limbs
When Yu, a 25-year-old 
loggerhead turtle, was found 
washed up in a Japanese ?shing net ?ve years ago, her 
front ?ippers had been brutally ripped apart from a ?ght 
with a shark. The keepers at 
an aquarium in Kobe, Japan 
have been working on a hightech cure that could help the 
turtle swim again. 
To date, they have tried 
27 models of prosthetic ?ns, 
all of which either caused the 
turtle pain or fell off when 
she tried to swim. Their latest version made of rubber 
and a material used in diving 
wetsuits, was ?nally successful in allowing the loggerhead 
turtle, an endangered species, 
to swim. My dream for her is 
that one day she can use her 
prosthetic ?ns to swim to the 
surface, walk about, and dig 
a proper hole to lay her eggs 
in, said Naoki Kamezaki, director of the aquatic park.
Source: Reuters
Russia suffers from damage after large meteorite
A 15-meter meteorite broke 
through the atmosphere and 
exploded above Chelyabinsk, 
Russia. The meteorite, which 
was the largest to hit the country in over a century, injured 
1,200 people and caused approximately $33 million in 
damage. Some scientists drew 
comparisons to another meteorite that occurred in 1908, 
which caused damage to 
buildings over 100 miles away.
Even more astounding is 
the fact that a 50-meter asteroid made a record-breaking 
close pass with Earth on the 
very same day. The good news 
is that according to NASAs 
Near-Earth Object Program, 
there are currently no expected large impacts for the next 
100 years, as most projectiles 
burn up in the atmosphere 
long before causing harm.
Source: Reuters
Compiled by
BROOKE KUEI
SCITECH BRIEFS
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
When postdoctoral fellow 
of machine learning Burr Settles was in graduate school, he 
was missing his passion; The 
rigor imposed by the University of Wisconsin-Madison 
left the once-avid musician 
swamped with research and 
classes. To get his musical ?x, 
he and a few friends decided 
to try and write a song every 
other day for an entire month. 
The group chose February, 
and since then, the endeavor 
has bloomed into February Album Writing Month (FAWM), 
now a popular creative collaboration website that cranks 
out thousands of songs every February. Settles and assistant professor of humancomputer interaction Steven 
Dow recently analyzed FAWM 
to answer some fundamental 
questions regarding creative 
collaboration.
The pair came with different skill sets, with Settles 
background in computer science and machine learning 
and Dows focus on social science. They used their diverse 
backgrounds to answer two 
main questions: How do creative collaborations form, and 
what makes a collaboration 
successful?
In FAWM, artists often collaborate to create their 14-
song album. Settles and Dow 
utilized path-based regression 
to determine which factors 
were most likely to predict 
collaboration between artists. Path-based regression 
works by randomly working 
through a large set of data 
that includes users, user comments, songs, and genres. The 
program starts with one user; 
it then randomly makes a path 
through the data from that 
user until it hits another user. 
For instance, the program may 
start at user A then randomly 
move to one of user As songs, 
then to a comment user B left 
on that song, and then ?nally 
to user B. Settles and Dow 
used the lengths and maps of 
these paths and compared the 
results to artists that actually 
worked together to determine 
which factors or connectors 
were most common in collaborations.
The ?ndings fell in line 
with some common social 
theories  for example, communication between users was 
a key predictor for collaborations. This communication 
may come in the form of users 
commenting on others songs, 
following each other, or directly messaging each other. 
The study also found that users collaborating together 
were more likely to have a 
similar, but not exact, amount 
of musical experience.
Perhaps even more surprisingly, Dow and Settles found a 
negative correlation between 
users who tagged songs with 
the same genre. For example, 
a user who tags his or her song 
as folk was more likely to team 
up with a heavy-metal singer 
that happened to appreciate 
folk than another folk artist.
There is sort of a desire to 
connect to people outside your 
area of genre, which we found 
was an interesting thing that 
bubbled up, Dow said. Settles added, In hindsight, this 
makes a lot of sense, but there 
wasnt a precedent for it in the 
literature.
To answer what made a 
collaboration successful, Settles and Dow utilized a survey asking participants about 
their least and most successful collaborations. Along with 
asking users to quantify their 
experience (e.g. on a scale of 
1 to 100, how much work did 
you put in?), users were encouraged to give comments. 
As with path-based regression, the survey yielded some 
results that were in line with 
common social theories: For 
instance, plenty of communication was key for a successful 
collaboration.
Furthermore, the artists 
were happiest with their collaborations when the work 
was split completely evenly. As 
predicted, artists who do the 
lions share of the work often 
end up dissatis?ed. Surprisingly, however, the users who 
did little work also had negative feelings regarding the collaboration. If you dont put 
your work into the collaboration, its bound not to be successful, Dow said. The study 
also indicated that a shared 
interest in genre did not necessarily predict a successful 
collaboration.
Settles and Dow believe the 
future application of methods 
similar to theirs could be farreaching, especially in other 
areas of creative collaboration. Both believe the mixture 
of quantitative and qualitative 
analysis resulted in a successful collaboration of their own. 
In the end, I think we made 
a lot of contributions in both 
directions that neither of us 
could have made alone, Settles said.
Researchers explore how creative collaborations form
HOW THINGS WORKThe science behind what makes your teeth sparkle
Michael Setzer/SciTech Editor

---------------------------------------------------

February 18, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/sports  A7
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
While the NBA season is 
well past the halfway point 
(most teams have played over 
52 games out of the 82-game 
schedule), this is still a good 
moment to re?ect upon the 
season to date. 
This season has seen the 
fall of two traditional powers  from title contenders to 
?ghting for their playoff lives 
 and the rise of two young 
teams that are exceeding all 
expectations. These standings mix-ups have made the 
?rst half of the season a joy to 
watch while setting up some 
fantastic playoff battles in the 
future.
The Los Angeles Lakers entered the season with championship aspirations, much like 
every season. 
This off-season, they 
picked up all-star center 
Dwight Howard and two-time 
MVP point guard Steve Nash 
to complement legendary 
guard Kobe Bryant and allstar power forward Pau Gasol. 
On paper this team 
seemed unstoppable, but 
reality proved to be very different. After a 14 start, the 
Lakers ?red head coach Mike 
Brown and eventually hired 
Mike DAntoni, who was the 
coach in Phoenix when Nash 
won his two MVPs.
The Lakers are still four 
games under .500 for the season and several games back 
from the Houston Rockets 
for the ?nal playoff spot, but 
they have recently changed 
their playing style to try and 
recapture some wins, with 
Kobe passing more than at 
any point in his long career 
and Nash turning into more of 
a spot-up jump shooter.
The Boston Celtics are another storied franchise currently experiencing a fall from 
grace. Last seasons run to the 
Conference Finals appeared 
to be the last hurrah for the 
big three  guard Ray Allen, 
small forward Paul Pierce, 
and power forward/center 
Kevin Garnett  who started 
the super-team era when they 
joined forces in 2007, winning 
a title in 2008. 
In the off-season, Allen 
jumped ship and signed with 
Celtics rival Miami Heat. Rumors of the team breaking up 
spread after Garnett was said 
to be a free agent. Garnett resigned, but the writing on the 
wall is that the current Celtics are not going to be around 
much longer.
Leader of the future, point 
guard Rajon Rondo appears 
to be the piece the team will 
build around eventually, but 
his season-ending ACL tear 
and the teams subsequent 
winning streak have raised 
doubts about even that future. 
Currently the Celtics occupy the eighth playoff spot 
with a sizable lead after their 
winning streak, but the effects 
of losing two starters   Rondo and rookie forward Jared 
Sullinger  for the season 
will eventually take its toll.
For all the struggles the 
Lakers have endured, the Los 
Angeles Clippers have surpassed almost all expectations. 
The strangely assembled 
team comprised of both very 
young talent and older veterans is led by forward Blake 
Grif?n, center DeAndre Jordan, and point guard Chris 
Paul. 
The Clippers took the NBA 
by storm, leading the topheavy Western Conference 
after posting a 17-game winning streak and a perfect 160 
December. 
They have since slipped to 
third after injuries to Grif?n, 
Paul, and key bench player 
Jordan Crawford. But with 
Paul in the lineup, the Clippers look to pick up right 
where they left off and make 
some serious noise in the 
playoffs. 
The Houston Rockets have 
been lacking star power since 
their great but injury-prone 
center Yao Ming retired in 
2011, but the team was ?nally 
able to change that this offseason. 
After signing point guard 
phenom Jeremy Lin from the 
New York Knicks, the Rockets took everyone by surprise 
and traded for shooting guard 
James Harden, sending veteran guard Kevin Martin, two 
?rst-round draft picks, and 
other considerations to the 
Oklahoma City Thunder.
Harden, who came off the 
bench in his time with the 
Thunder, made an immediate 
impact with the Rockets, scoring 37 and a career-high 45 
points in his ?rst two games 
with the team. 
The Thunder was willing 
to trade Harden because it did 
not believe he was worth a 
max-level contract, but so far 
Houston appears more than 
happy with their decision to 
give the 23-year-old Harden 
an all-star-level salary, given 
his stellar performance, attitude, and leadership thus far.
All-Star Game weekend 
gives us the chance to re?ect 
upon the NBA, where stars 
can single-handedly carry a 
team through the playoffs, 
but a bad apple or two in the 
locker room can quickly spoil 
title hopes. 
The Lakers and Celtics 
came into the break with multiple all-stars but are struggling to make the playoffs, 
while the Clippers and Rockets are lauding their big acquisitions and watching their 
teams futures take a turn 
from hopeful playoff team to 
perennial title contenders in 
the next two to three years.
So sit back, relax, and 
watch the last third of the season unfold, before the playoffs show us once and for all 
which teams are pretenders 
and which teams will end up 
?ghting for the ultimate prize.
SPORTS COMMENTARYUsual favorites fall in NBA

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  February 18, 2013
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
Junior professional writing 
major Soleil Phan has made a 
splash as one of Carnegie Mellons top female swimmers on 
the varsity swimming and diving team.
Phan most recently competed at the University Athletic Association (UAA) Championships at the University 
of Chicago, where she placed 
second in the 200-meter individual medley (IM) and 
helped lead her 400-meter 
relay team to a second-place 
?nish. Phans performance in 
the 200-yard medley relay assisted her team to a ?rst-place 
?nish and a University of Chicago pool record. 
Phan also broke her own 
school record in the 100-yard 
butter?y during the preliminaries after ?nishing in 56.79 
seconds. She ?nished the 
championship heat in fourth 
and provisionally quali?ed 
for the NCAA Championships. 
Phan also quali?ed for NCAAs 
in the the 200-yard butter?y 
and helped lead a 800-yard 
freestyle relay to meet the 
quali?cation time as well.
Phan specializes in the 
freestyle and butter?y events. 
She said that her biggest accomplishment this season was 
?nally breaking 57:00 in the 
100 butter?y, which she did at 
the Kenyon Total Performance 
Invitational at Kenyon College 
on Nov. 30, also breaking her 
own school record. Phan was 
victorious numerous times at 
invitational meets throughout 
the season.
These accomplishments 
only add to Phans list of honors, including ?nishing ?rst 
on the team last year in four 
different events and being 
named All-America Honorable 
Mention her ?rst year, UAA 
Champion in 2011 in the 100-
yard butter?y, and All-UAA 
second team in the 200-meter 
relay that same year. Also in 
2011, Phan competed in seven 
events in the NCAA Championships. Making NCAAs my 
freshman year was one of the 
best experiences Ive had as a 
swimmer, Phan said.
Phan hopes to repeat that 
experience this year and make 
NCAAs both individually and 
on relays. Coming into the season, she knew that this year 
was going to be a faster ?eld, 
so giving a 110 percent effort 
at every practice was one of 
my goals that I knew could 
help get me there.
Phans talents, ambition, 
and positive outlook are recognized by her fellow swimmers.
Soleil is one of the hardest 
workers and consistent performers on our team, and her 
cheerful attitude makes it such 
a pleasure to swim with her, 
said junior Wesley Kim.
Sophomore Wendy Liu 
said, Soleil has a very positive presence on the team and 
leads the team both through 
example and voice. Not only 
is she an awesome swimmer, 
but [she is also] an incredibly 
focused and fantastic person.
Phans focus is also driven 
by her teammates. I think 
this year our team has trained 
faster than any other year, 
she said.
But the Tartan swim team 
is not all about the rivalry and 
races in the pool. Phan emphasized that the team is so 
close that were like a family. 
The support that Ive seen this 
group give each other is unlike 
any other, she said. We hold 
each other accountable for everything both in and out of the 
pool.
From large team dinners 
to coach Matt Kinney quoting Mean Girls, Phan said she 
cant imagine swimming 
without the team.
Phan has been swimming 
competitively since she was 
nine years old. My favorite 
part is being able to compete 
both individually and for your 
team. Ive been swimming for 
more than half my life, so I 
couldnt imagine life without 
it, she said.
When Phan is not gliding 
through the water like a sail?sh, she can often be found 
shopping or designing. She 
hopes to pursue her love for 
design as a future career. 
Not only is [Soleil] an 
awesome swimmer and person, but shes also incredibly 
artsy and designs apparel, Liu 
said. She also takes a lot of 
pictures for the team.
For now, Phan sets her 
sights on the national meet 
on March 20. Although she 
cringes as meet announcers 
(and even a few joking teammates) mispronounce her 
name So-leeeeeel, she hopes 
to hear her name be called 
as she is proclaimed a NCAA 
champion.
VINAY VISWANATHAN
Junior Staffwriter
Over the course of the 
winter, the 21 determined 
members of the Carnegie 
Mellon Ski & Snowboard 
Club team have hit the slopes 
to compete in a variety of 
events, namely the slalom 
and giant slalom for skiers 
and the slope-style and giant slalom for snowboarders. With practices at Seven 
Springs Mountain Resort 
and competitions across the 
region, the team has proven 
itself this year, performing at 
what is arguably its highest 
level in years.
On Feb. 910, both the 
ski and snowboard segments 
of the squad  competed at 
Blue Knob in the Allegheny 
Mountains, against teams 
from around the Mid-Atlantic 
region. The ski team placed 
second in the mens category 
and fourth in the womens. 
The women were led by 
junior Anna Cederquist, who 
placed second in the individual single-course race. Other 
strong performers in the 
womens race were ?rst-years 
Niki Kawakami and Robin 
Song, who achieved 12th and 
14th places, respectively.
 Our team did pretty well, 
with no disquali?cations, 
Kawakami said. I think we 
were successful.
Carnegie Mellons club 
ski team offers racing opportunities to both those with 
signi?cant racing experience 
and newcomers alike. Many 
of our members this year are 
freshmen or new members. 
[Junior Eric Telmer] and I 
are the only two returning 
skiers from two years ago, 
Kawakami said.
The top performer on the 
mens team was ?rst-year 
standout Shepard Emerson, 
subject of last weeks Athlete 
Pro?le and winner of the individual competition at Blue 
Knob, followed by junior Alexander Warzinski in 24th 
place and sophomore Caleb 
Levine in 27th. 
Emerson, who also placed 
second at the teams previous race at Elk Mountain in 
January, said that the team 
has been dominant among 
several local teams, and we 
have done especially well for 
a team that has people with 
little racing experience. 
The snowboard members 
also performed well. At the 
past competition, the team 
placed second, only falling 
behind the United States 
Naval Academy. Telmer and 
senior Ruari Egan have led 
the team in mens alpine and 
womens alpine, respectively. 
Telmer said that this has 
been the best season so far, 
[with the team] consistently 
placing in the top three as a 
team each weekend and having members placing ?rst in 
some of the weekends. 
We place[d] second as a 
team for the season, and one 
of our guys and one of our 
girls got second overall for 
the season, he added.
The ski and snowboard 
team practices nearly every 
Wednesday at Seven Springs 
Mountain Resort, in addition 
to having workouts throughout the week on campus.
The team participates in 
?ve competitions sponsored 
by the Allegheny Collegiate 
Ski Conference during January and February. 
The conference spans 
Pennsylvania, Maryland, and 
West Virginia. It includes 
the U.S. Naval Academy, 
the University of Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania State University, West Virginia University, 
West Virginia Wesleyan College, Davis and Elkins College, Bucknell University, Villanova University, and West 
Chester University.
The Ski & Snowboard 
Club team will travel to Timberline, W.Va., for the regional competition this Friday.
Strong season for 
ski, snowboard club
[We have been] dominant 
among several local teams, and 
we have done especially well for 
a team that has people with little 
racing experience.
Shepard Emerson,
First-year skier
ELIZABETH MARTIN
Junior Staffwriter
The Carnegie Mellon mens 
and womens swimming teams 
competed in the University 
Athletic Association (UAA) 
Championships, hosted by 
the University of Chicago last 
Thursday to Saturday.
The meet was highlighted 
by the mens teams secondplace ?nish and a series of 
individual championships for 
both the men and the women. 
A series of strong performances led the Tartan men 
to a silver victory. Sophomore 
Anton Razanav and junior 
Edward Sears brought home 
individual championships. In 
the 1,650-yard freestyle, four 
?nished in the top 10.
Razanav repeated as the 
200-yard backstroke champion and quali?ed for the NCAA 
Championships in March. On 
Friday, Razanav also earned 
All-UAA status in the 100-yard 
backstroke, earning third with 
a career-best time of 51.56 
seconds and provisionally 
qualifying for the NCAA meet.
Sears also was a UAA 
champion, winning the 100-
yard freestyle and provisionally qualifying for NCAAs. 
Earlier in the meet, Sears was 
just 0.03 seconds away from 
breaking the school record in 
the 50-yard freestyle, touching the wall in 20.90 seconds.
First year Matthew Nielsen 
earned All-UAA status in the 
400-yard Individual Medley 
(IM) by ?nishing third. His 
time was a season-best and 
helped him qualify for NCAAs. 
Sophomore David Campbell 
also provisionally quali?ed for 
NCAAs in the preliminaries. 
The relay events were the 
highlight of the ?rst day. The 
200-yard freestyle relay team 
placed third to earn All-UAA 
status, and the 400-yard medley relay team touched in a 
provisional NCAA-qualifying 
time of 3:24.47.
Our performance re?ected all of our hard work we put 
in this season. We left everything in the pool and fought 
through adversity to wrap up 
our season with an excellent 
conference ?nish, Razanav 
said.
The women also had impressive races at UAAs, ?nishing in fourth place. Senior 
Breanna Stillo ?nished second 
in the 400-yard medley, setting a school record with a 
time of 3:52.62. During the 
preliminaries, Stillo broke 
her personal record in the 50-
yard freestyle and quali?ed 
for NCAAs. On Friday, Stillo 
swam to another All-UAA 
performance with a thirdplace showing in the 100-yard 
breaststroke. Her time broke 
her own school record and 
quali?ed her for the NCAAs.
The 400-yard medley relay 
team set a new school record 
and met last years NCAA selection time.
The women proved their 
relay prowess elsewhere, winning the 200-yard medley 
relay on Friday, setting a University of Chicago pool record 
and bettering last years NCAA 
Championship selection time. 
Phans time of 2:06.31 
earned her second place in 
the 200-yard IM. Phan was a 
major contributor and swam 
on several relay teams, all of 
which quali?ed her for the 
NCAA Championship.
First-year Kira Singhaus 
time of 2:05.38 was undefeated in the 200-yard backstroke, ranking her provisionally quali?ed as well.
The team did very well at 
UAAs, sophomore Wendy Liu 
said. We had two conference 
champions, broke at least ?ve 
school records, and so many 
people got best times. Our 
team has gone through so 
much together and it is really 
culminated at UAAs.
ATHLETE PROFILESwimmer Soleil Phan quali?es for NCAA Championships
Swim teams place 2nd, 4th at UAAs
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
Junior Soleil Phan, specializing in freestyle and butter?y, has quali?ed for several relay and individual events in the NCAA Championships in March.
ABBY SMITH
Sports Co-Editor
Carnegie Mellons varsity 
tennis team has made quite 
the racket in recent weeks. 
The nationally ranked mens 
squad is undefeated with 
a 60 record, as the teams 
spring portion of the season 
has of?cially begun.
Yesterday, the womens 
team defeated Indiana University of Pennsylvania 81. 
The team went 30 in doubles 
with wins from junior Katie 
Cecil and sophomore Angela 
Pratt, sophomores Bryn Raschke and Chelsea Motie, and 
?rst-years Abbey Hamstra and 
Brooke Tsu.
The match also bene?ted 
from singles victories from Cecil, Motie, Pratt, Hamstra, and 
sophomore Lydia Utkin.
This weekend was a really 
good test for our team and a 
great way to prepare for the 
indoor championship, Hamstra said.
While the women celebrated the win, the mens 
team continued its undefeated streak with a 72 victory over the Stevens Institute 
of Technology. Sophomore 
Bryce Beisswanger and ?rstyear Abhishek Alla won the 
?rst match of the day against 
the Stevens Tech No. 3 doubles pair. After Stevens Tech 
tied the match, sophomores 
Christian Heaney-Secord and 
Thomas Cooper paired to win 
at No. 2 doubles in a tiebreaker 98.
Senior Harsha Rao gave 
the Tartans a 31 advantage 
with his win in singles play, 
and Alla followed with another singles win.
Senior Duke Miller sealed 
the win for the Tartans with 
his singles victory. First-years 
Yuvraj Kumar and Kosuke 
Hasegawa also won for Carnegie Mellon.
On Sunday, the mens 
tennis team defeated Haverford College 63. Although 
the team encountered three 
losses in doubles matches, the 
men rallied back with stellar 
singles matches. Alla, Miller, 
Hasegawa, senior Jooho Yu, 
and Heaney-Secord all sealed 
victories for the Tartans to remain undefeated.
Unfortunately, the womens team faced tough competition just the day before 
against eighth-ranked Division II California University 
of Pennsylvania and fell 63. 
Tsu and Hamstra won their 
doubles matches, while Hamstra and Pratt each won their 
singles matches against Cal U.
On Feb. 9, the mens team 
defeated Division I Bucknell 
University. Beisswanger and 
Alla won 84 in doubles play 
to give the Tartans an excellent start. Kumar, Miller, and 
Rao all won in singles to contribute to the 54 victory.
Weve had a few great 
wins for the guys team, which 
is especially important going into some tough spring 
break competition in California, Kumar said of the teams 
victories.
The day before, the womens team took down Slippery 
Rock University in a 90 victory. The ladies won all of their 
singles and doubles matches 
to win on their home court. 
Cecil paired with Pratt to win 
80 against the No. 1 doubles 
team from Slippery Rock. 
Motie and Hamstra also won 
their doubles match against 
the No. 2 team.
Cecil, Motie, Martin, Pratt, 
Hamstra, and senior Alex 
Tapak all won their respective singles matches to contribute to a resounding Tartan 
victory. 
The tennis team heads to 
Skidmore College on March 1 
for the Intercollegiate Tennis 
Association Team Indoor National Championship.
Tennis team begins spring season
Jonathan Leung/Assistant Photo Editor
The womens tennis team opened its spring season Feb. 8 against 
Slippery Rock University, while the men opened Feb. 2 against West 
Virginia Wesleyan College.

---------------------------------------------------

Lunar Gala: VENIN
Annual fashion show features student 
designers, models  B8
02.18.13 Volume 107, Issue 18

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Read about tactful breakups and admirable 
career goals in this weeks comics.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents three movies this week, 
including The Perks of Being a Wallflower.
7
Paperhouse
Paperhouse talks about the new Black Marbles 
album, A Different Arrangement.
5
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal 
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Jos Lopez
8
45610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about Steam for 
Linux and choosing a guy.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Phipps 
The opening of the Center for Sustainable 
Landscapes is a new stride in green buildings.
3
Carmina Burana
Conductor Robert Page presents his last 
concert with the Carnegie Mellon choirs.
4
Allstar Weekend
Wednesdays fun, energetic concert excites 
teens with the bands high-energy sound. 
5
12 Angry Men
ScotchnSoda presents the classic drama with 
a more diverse cast. 
6
Bientt lt
A simple and unexpectedly deep video game 
fosters emotional connections.
7
Lunar Gala
The annual fashion show features student 
designers, models, and performers.
8
Reading
Three alumnae from the Carnegie Mellon 
English department present their work.
10
Did You Know?
Did you know that the Margaret Morrison 
Nursery is also used for psychology research?
10
Puzzles
The puzzles are hard this week, so youll have 
to think to solve them.
13
Horoscopes
This weeks horoscopes are best served with lo 
mein or fried rice.
14
Calendar
See whats going on in Pittsburgh and on 
campus this week.
15

---------------------------------------------------

community
pillbox 02.18.133
Conservatory goes green
Center for Sustainable Landscapes opens at Phipps
Ive said it once, Ive said it a million times: I want 
to live in Phipps Conservatory. Is there anything 
that the botanical gardens cant accomplish? The 
answer seems to be a resounding no, especially with 
the recent addition of their new green building: the 
Center for Sustainable Landscapes (CSL).
Officially open as of Tuesday, the CSL  the centers 
fashionable acronym  is a crucial, innovative step 
in the nationwide craze for sustainability.
The building  which was designed by a 
conglomeration of Pennsylvanian designers, 
engineers, architects, and contractors  is the 
winner of two international awards for sustainable 
buildings: the Leadership in Environmental and 
Energy Design (LEED) Platinum and the Sustainable 
Sites Initiative certifications.
According to the information that is presented 
throughout the building, the LEED Platinum 
certification is the highest level of recognition for 
environmentally friendly buildings.
According to CSL docent Sibylle Ingold, the 
Sustainable Sites Initiative award was given to 
recognize that the CSL is a zero-water, zero-energy 
facility. As the friendly docents who guide the daily 
1 p.m. tours will explain, that means that the 
building has a net usage of zero gallons of water and 
zero watts of electricity.
The facility produces water through a rainwater 
collection system that stores and filters water 
through the use of lagoons, constructed wetlands, 
and permeable parking pavement. Electricity is 
produced and conserved with photovoltaic panels 
(solar panels), a vertical wind turbine, and a direct 
digital control building management system.
The results of these efforts are 200 gallons of water 
and 125 kilowatts of electricity produced each day  
quite an impressive amount for such a small facility. 
If the CSL is able to uphold these standards for a 
year and collect the data necessary to back those 
qualifications, it will qualify for the international 
Living Building Challenge, one of the most honorable 
and competitive awards that can be bestowed upon 
a green building.
While the $23 million project is breathtaking 
on paper, the realized vision is unfortunately 
underwhelming. While visitors can easily see 
the lagoons and solar panels, its hard to truly 
appreciate the vast strides that the facility has made 
in sustainable building and landscape: The dull 
concrete building is unfinished, not very visually 
engaging, and lacking in visitor resources, save for a 
docent and interactive computer. The result doesnt 
do justice to the amazing environmental efforts of the 
Conservatory.
That being said, I have high hopes for this incredible 
project. Phipps as a whole consistently presents 
exhaustively-researched, well-organized, wellfunded, and creatively presented efforts. This project 
in particular has the added importance of being 
a building that has attained three international 
awards.
Phipps isnt going to drop the ball; its just possible 
they tossed it into the public court a little too early.
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
For more information on the CSL, please visit 
phipps.conservatory.org. You can also follow updates 
to the entire Conservatory @phippsnews and ask 
questions directly about the Center for Sustainable 
Living with #askcsl on Twitter.
 
Laura Scherb | Assistant Pillbox Editor
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Running Linux was the 
only thing keeping me 
from spending all my free 
time playing video games, 
but Steam for Linux just 
came out, and now Im 
worried Ill spend all 
my time playing games 
instead of going to class 
 or, more importantly, 
bars. What can I do to 
resist the Steam sales 
siren song?
Thanks,
Uselessly Laboring, 
Yearning Silencing 
Steams Endless 
Serenade
Dear ULYSSES,
As far as I know, there are 
only two known methods 
for resisting a sirens song: 
Stuff your ears with wax or 
tie yourself to a ships mast. 
Metaphorically, of course. 
Stuffing your ears with wax 
would mean uninstalling 
Steam and all those games. 
Pretend youve never heard 
of it. Wait to install it again 
until after the semester is 
over. But the dulcet tones 
of cheap games are already 
ringing in your ears.
The only solution, then, is 
to have your crewmen strap 
you to the mast  in other 
words, willpower  by 
which I mean having friends 
willing to drag you to class 
and bars. I know, friends 
suck. But it must be done! 
If you keep strong, you may 
finally lay eyes on your sweet 
Penelope. By which I mean 
some drunk chick at a bar.
Reading The Odyssey 
in high school is finally 
paying off,
Patrick Hoskins
Dear Patrick,
Im interested in these 
two dudes and cant 
choose between them. 
Worse still, theyre 
friends, and I dont want 
to do anything to mess 
up their friendship. I think 
Id have a shot with either 
one; all thats left to do is 
choose. How?
Thanks,
Either Valentine Excites 
Romantic Yearning, 
Requires Organizing My 
Choices Or May Shortly 
Terminate Any Romance
Dear EVERY ROM COM 
STAR,
Why choose? Hey, man, 
its the 21st century; were 
pretty free-wheeling. Youre 
all consenting adults 
(hopefully), and as long as 
theyre cool with it, you may 
not have to choose. Dont 
worry about ruining their 
friendship. Youll make them 
more than friends: Youll 
make them Eskimo brothers.
Okay, maybe youre not 
down with that. Or theyre 
not. (Bunch of squares. Did 
Austin Powers teach us 
nothing?) Either way, youll 
actually have to choose. You 
could make a pro/con list, or 
actually get to know them, or 
whatever. But if theyre really 
so interchangeable that you 
cant choose, then you may 
as well just flip a coin. Thats 
how I solve all my difficult 
decisions, like which bar to 
go to.
The answers the one with 
cheap beer,
Patrick Hoskins
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About Steam for Linux and choosing dudes
The Center for Sustainable Landscapes rainwater 
run-off is stored in this lagoon, which uses the 
roots of reeds to filter the water. 

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 02.18.13
Never before has a passage of music sounded more 
like a sexual climax than in Carnegie Mellon alumna 
Elisabeth Turchis magni?cent rendition of Dulcissime, 
a movement of Carl Orffs famous classical scenic 
cantata Carmina Burana. And what better way than 
through great primal passion  and through one of the 
most famous classical pieces of all time  to celebrate 
the ?nal concert of Robert Page, the venerated maestro 
and director of choral studies at Carnegie Mellon.
His exit marks a turning point for the College of Fine 
Arts. Page is indubitably one of the greatest choral 
conductors of our time, and can be credited signi?cantly 
for shaping the world-renowned voice department at the 
School of Music. Carmina Burana is one of his signature 
pieces: He won a Grammy for his recording of Carmina 
with the Cleveland Orchestra with Michael Tilson 
Thomas, and conducted the piece with the Prague Radio 
Symphony Orchestra in 1997.
The joint Carnegie Mellon choirs, the Carnegie Mellon 
Percussion Ensemble, School of Music faculty pianists 
Luz Manriquez and Mark Carver, and featured soloists 
including Turchi (CFA 99) presented the piece to a 
packed house at the Pittsburgh School for the Creative 
and Performing Arts (CAPA) on Saturday, with a repeat 
performance yesterday at St. John Vianney Church in 
South Hills. The two other alumni soloists were tenor 
Dillon McCartney (CFA 92) and baritone Dimitrie Lazich.
Carmina Burana  especially the movement that serves 
as its beginning and end, O Fortuna  is practically a 
stereotype for heightened drama, having been used as 
incidental music for Gatorade commercials, the BBCs 
World Cup coverage, and Pittsburgh Pirates games. This 
energy re?ects the pieces text, which journeys from 
philosophical ruminations on wealth to great raucous 
numbers about drinking, gambling, and sex. This drama, 
coupled with Pages characteristic chutzpah, made for a 
passionate night.
This passion took a few different forms over the course of 
Saturday night. It was certainly contagious in the choir, 
and one could easily pick out singers head-banging 
during movements with driving beats. But as junior 
composition student and back-row head-banger Sean 
Salamon astutely observed, How can you not rock out to 
Carmina Burana?
Considering that the student singers had only a month 
to prepare  and that the soloists didnt rehearse with 
the choir until two days before the show  they did 
an incredible job. Page elicited spitting diction and an 
enormous vocal force for all the choral movements of the 
piece, especially from the men. Most impressive of all 
were the short solos from certain chorus members.
Its rather unfortunate that the School of Music didnt 
have the resources to perform the full-scale version of 
the work. What would have been moments to highlight a 
large ensemble in the full version of Carmina came off as 
dry and ?at in this arrangement.
That is to say, the arrangement was entirely at fault. The 
Carnegie Mellon Percussion Ensemble, a conglomerate 
of undergraduate and graduate percussion performance 
majors, subtly showcased some of the best talent of 
the night, managing to accentuate the pieces drama 
without stealing the spotlight from the singers. Masters 
student in percussion performance Lily Hoi, in particular, 
radiated more intensity than nearly anyone else onstage.
Also commendable were Manriquez and Carver, both 
master pianists by their own right who came together 
under Pages baton to celebrate his last concert. 
Although Carl Orff wrote Carmina primarily for the 
chorus, many of his vocal parts sit in an uncomfortably 
high range in the human voice. Turchi mastered this 
range the moment she stood from her chair. The pieces 
single tenor solo depicts a stumbling drunk singing in a 
stratospheric wail. He acted out the part of the drunk by 
frequently breaking the fourth wall, once even looking 
at the score over Pages shoulder (the maestro turned to 
him, apparently aghast). The tenors acting more than 
made up for the slight weakness in his voice.
Lazich had a sonorous and luscious voice in his lower 
range, but his part goes rather high as well. There were 
some points in the performances when one was worried 
he wouldnt make all his notes, and the tension he 
exuded in the upper register of his voice was unnerving. 
He also had a tendency to slide from one note to another 
 a practical rather than a stylistic choice  which 
was largely a turnoff. He also acted out his part, but after 
the tenors solo, his movements seemed like a cheap 
imitation of McCartneys.
The soloists aside, the last few movements of the cantata 
were riveting. During the reprise of O Fortuna, Page 
 usually hunched over like a noble crow  seemed 
to grow a head taller. The audience saw, for at least a 
minute, the great conductor as a spry young man. His 
heart and music have never grown stiff with age.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager 
Page presents his ?nal performance
Stunning rendition of Carmina Burana marks conductors last concert at Carnegie Mellon

---------------------------------------------------

music
pillbox 02.18.135
Paperhouse
On Black Marble
My favorite new album at WRCT has been coldwave band 
Black Marbles A Different Arrangement. Like much of 
Black Marbles other source material, the albums vocals 
are reminiscent of a low-key Ian Curtis, further developing 
the sound of their earlier Weight Against the Door EP. 
Here, the typically subdued tension between the angular 
synthesizers and human melancholia is at its zenith.
A Different Arrangement surveys a wide variety of 
sounds, from the radiant, bouncing ebullience of A Great 
Design to the haunted-playground bop of Limitations, 
juxtaposing sampled rim-drum tracks with layers of 
sentimental synth melodies. Warm basslines shapeshift 
across the albums runtime and vintage synthesizer 
arrangements are airy and, at times, so distinctly sculpted 
they seem otherworldly.
A certain handmade feeling is what were after, Stewart 
explained in an interview with Hardly Art, the record label. 
The music doesnt have to be complex, but its more 
important to carry some residue of the process, especially 
when working with what [can sometimes] be construed as 
cold-sounding electronics. Its humanizing.
Black Marbles latest album certainly embodies an analog 
quality that brings life to otherwise unfeeling electronic 
music. The textural complexities to which Stewart refers 
can only be fully appreciated after multiple listens, allowing 
the soundscapes to sink in further, quietly addictive.
If Weight Against the Door constituted a long, cold night, 
then A Different Arrangement heralds the moment when 
the radiator ?nally sputters to life, ?ooding the room with 
heat as the sun rises over a horizon of Brutalist tower 
blocks. The homemade soundtrack to a still, uncertain 
dawn, A Different Arrangement is a striking evolution in 
Black Marbles sound.
Chloe Lula | Staffwriter
top 10 on WRCT 88.3 FM
most played albums of the last week
Beagle Brothers  Dancers of the Drunken Two-Step/
Architects of the Bloom?eld Sound
Tame Impala  Lonerism
Majeure  Solar Maximum
Submotion Orchestra  Fragments
Lindstrom  Smalhans
Flying Lotus  Until the Quiet Comes
Alt-J  An Awesome Wave
Rotten Sound  Species at War
Delicious Pastries  Pretty Please
Neighbours  Neighbours
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
Allstar Weekend shakes it up
Boy band thrills teens with high-energy concert
Teens of Pittsburgh were in for a great treat last 
Wednesday when California-based pop band 
Allstar Weekend performed at the Altar Bar. The 
band is famous for its catchy pop songs, such as 
Hey, Princess, which was featured on the Disney 
Channel.
Allstar Weekend was no stranger to the venue; the 
band had performed there last year as well. This stop 
on the tour was Allstar Weekends last; the band is 
taking a hiatus after this concert, so Wednesdays 
performance was a chance for fans to say goodbye to 
the beloved boy band.
The show kicked off with a native Pittsburgh band 
called the Sleeper Pick. The four-person pop rock 
band was a good attempt to start off the show, but 
because the audience was unfamiliar with its songs, 
it was hard to raise the energy of the crowd and 
people started getting restless. 
Thankfully, the next band, Beneath the Sun, had a 
larger fan base. With the band members outrageous 
hair and fresh new talent, fans were eager to scream 
along to their music.
The next performance was given by YouTube star 
Tiffany Alvord. Although she was very talented and 
sweet, her songs were met with derision from the 
audience. Her music style was very different from 
that of the rest of the bands, as her voice was only 
accompanied by her acoustic guitar. Amid laughter 
and remarks of, Why is she here? Tiffany Alvord 
struggled to capture the attention of fans who were 
really only interested in the boy bands to follow.
The second-to-last band, Cute Is What We Aim 
For, caused a huge stir in the crowd. Many people 
had come just to see them, so there was a huge 
surge in the crowd when they appeared on stage. 
One boy knocked his way to the front, abandoning 
his girlfriend in the back with all the preteen girls, 
where he proceeded to sing his heart out along with 
the lead singer. The bands alternative rock style and 
the lead singers inspirational messages between 
songs made for a very enjoyable performance. 
There was a sizable time gap between Cute Is What 
We Aim Fors performance and Allstar Weekends 
appearance. The audience started to get restless and 
chanted for Allstar Weekend to come on stage. When 
the band ?nally appeared, it was met with shrill 
screams.
Allstar Weekend kicked off with one of its 
characteristic high-energy pop songs. Lead singer 
Zachary Porter tended to dance around a lot, 
doing hip thrusts as he sang, while lead guitarist 
Cameron Quiseng preferred to stand still and 
smile seductively at the audience. It was slightly 
disappointing that this band had the weakest vocals 
of the bunch, although most of the audience didnt 
seem to mind.
In the middle of the concert, the band members 
announced that this was their last tour as Allstar 
Weekend and thanked their fans. They also popped 
out with Musical Twerks, an Allstar Weekend 
tradition where they pull out members of the 
audience to dance on stage. Porters comment that 
the girls could use his mic stand as a stripper pole 
was a little inappropriate considering that most of 
his fans in the audience were in high school, but 
they seemed to love the comment. When the boys 
left the stage, fans started screaming for an encore, 
and the band ?nally reemerged in denim overalls and 
?nished with a dance for the fans.
After the concert, the crowd was given a chance 
to meet and greet all of the above bands that 
had performed. All of the musicians were selling 
merchandise, and most of them were by their tables 
talking to fans. They were all very friendly and open 
to chatting, giving out autographs, and talking about 
their music.
Overall the concert was very enjoyable. The upbeat 
songs excited the crowd, and the pop rock music 
was a good mix to let loose to on a Wednesday night.
Sophia Chang | Junior Staffwriter
Sophia Chang | Junior Photographer
Allstar Weekend lead singer Zach Porter energized 
his audience at the Altar Bar last Wednesday.

---------------------------------------------------

6theater
pillbox 02.18.13
ScotchnSoda Theater put on a production last Friday 
and Saturday of 12 Angry Men, a drama concerning 
12 jurors who are tasked with determining the guilt or 
innocence of a boy charged with homicide.
Despite the title, the cast of jurors included women as 
well as men. Compared to traditional productions, this 
production featured a much more diverse cast, which 
played to its bene?t; the cast resonated much more 
with a modern-day American audience, touching upon 
themes related to race and gender.
The staging was relatively understated, with much 
of the attention going toward the people in the jury 
room. However, it was extraordinary to note that the 
set featured running water and electricity, showing the 
great deal of effort that was put into every aspect of the 
production.
Although the play was generally enjoyable, the 
implementation of the 50s-era dialogue was less than 
seamless. The actors rendition of the slang expressions 
sounded somewhat awkward and forced at times, but it 
became less of an issue as the play went on.
The play itself was remarkably tightly woven and 
dramatic; every detail was intrinsically important or 
revealing. Throughout the piece, there was a very real 
sense of frustration and tension between each of the 
jurors, which ?uctuated between the scenes of the play. 
Audience members were intently sitting upright in their 
seats as they watched the play, which spoke to its tense 
atmosphere.
Keeping true to the title, the focus of the production was 
the jurors themselves. The cast portraying the jurors was 
very talented; each actor gave a unique and memorable 
performance. Of special mention is junior Bachelor of 
Computer Science and Arts student Andrew Bueno, who 
played Juror 8, the dissenting juror who was the ?rst 
person to vote not guilty. Bueno gave an outstanding 
performance as the calm and controlled yet passionate 
objector who manages to sway the opinions of his fellow 
jurors.
Opposing Buenos character was Juror 3, played by 
senior decision science major Kevin Handerhan, who 
gave a solid performance as a vociferous older man 
fostering bitterness toward his son. Senior economics 
major Erika Tang was also very noteworthy in her 
portrayal of Juror 9, an observant old woman who seems 
to go off on miscellaneous tangents, but whose words 
carry a deeper signi?cance. Lastly, masters student in 
design Shree Lakshmi Raos portrayal of Juror 11, an 
immigrant with strong moral principles, was also very 
moving.
In addition to the strong performances, the play featured 
several striking and memorable scenes. In one scene, 
Jurors 3 and 8 attempt to reenact the scene of the 
murder, with Juror 3 pointing a switchblade down at 
Juror 8s chest. This scene comes after an exchange 
between two other jurors, in which it is stated that 
anyone has the potential to commit murder. The other 
jurors collective jump as Juror 3 motions to stab Juror 
8 startled the audience, making the subsequent short bit 
of comedic relief all the more hilarious.
In another scene, the jurors decided one by one to turn 
their backs to Juror 10, played by senior decision science 
major Christopher Sparks. Juror 10 is a garage owner 
who is highly intolerant of people who live in the slums. 
The jurors actions were in response to Juror 10s rant on 
the untrustworthiness of poor people. In the end, with 
no one listening to him, 10 backed into a corner and 
remained silent for the rest of the play. This scene spoke 
greatly to the power of the simplest of human gestures in 
making a difference.
The play raised very important questions regarding 
the American judicial system and the meaning 
of reasonable doubt. It made one wonder what 
would have happened in the same case without a 
conscientious objector; as the play pointed out, People 
make mistakes all the time. Those mistakes have led to 
innocent people being sentenced to death. 
12 Angry Men was more than just a commentary on 
the American judicial system. The play was also an 
examination of human nature: our hypocrisies and 
prejudices, as well as our better angels of responsibility 
and morality. It looked at what makes us tick, and how 
the smallest things can affect our decisions.
ScotchnSodas production of 12 Angry Men was truly 
a unique experience. Its greatest strength lay in the 
simple, undiluted power of its personalities, which 
created a strong emotional connection between the 
characters and the audience. As director and junior 
voice major James Alexander states in the playbill, You 
dont need ?ashy special effects or musical numbers to 
hold an audiences attention, because a powerful script 
with a talented cast can be just as compelling.
Xiyu Wang | Junior Staffwriter
12 Angry Men examines human nature
Strong performances and powerful story come together for compelling show
Haley Bryant | Junior Photographer
Despite the title, ScotchnSodas production of 12 Angry Men featured a cast of mixed gender, including fifth-year 
architecture major Richman Neumann (Juror 12, left) and masters design student Shree Lakshmi Rao (Juror 11, 
right).

---------------------------------------------------

games
pillbox 02.18.137
You are ?ying through a ?eld of stars. You hit a key on 
the keyboard, confused. A string of words appears before 
you: This is not a game to be won. Do not want or think. 
Just be.
So begins the game Bientt lt  or in English, Its 
Nearly Summer. The game then asks you to decide 
between a male or female avatar. In most games, this 
would be where the major choices end. But in Bientt 
lt, the choices have barely begun.
After you decide, your avatar is dropped on an ethereal 
beach, dressed simply in white. Seagulls ?y around, 
waves lap at your feet, ambient music plays in the 
background, and the game provides a supremely 
calming experience. You can walk along the beach in 
either direction. As you do, the music changes from the 
simple, light ditties to include deep bass notes, giving 
an eerie feeling. The horizon then slowly fades away, 
revealing a sky of spinning stars and planets. Walk far 
enough and you will come across an impassable barrier 
 the avatar of the opposite sex staring back at you, 
mimicking your movements.
You also have the ability to close your eyes, which 
reveals what this world truly is: a hologram. According 
to the developer Tale of Tales description of the game, 
this is all taking place in an Intergalactic Holocom 
Transmitter II in deep space. This may be a bit weird, 
but the main point of the game becomes apparent when 
you turn around, looking away from the sea.
A little distance behind the starting point is a house, 
which you can enter. When you do, you sit down at a 
table with an empty chess board (with nothing but a 
king, if its your ?rst time), a wine glass, an ashtray, and 
some cigarettes. The game then searches the Internet 
for a companion (someone playing the opposite sex). 
This other player appears as a digital apparition across 
the table from you.
This is the crux of the game: to have a simulated 
conversation with another person over a game of 
chess. When I realized that the conversation and small 
interactions that occur within the house were the 
driving points of the game, my mind was blown. Having 
a game with the purpose of establishing some sort of 
connection with someone you cant see, playing as two 
characters who are  again, according to computer 
game developer Tale of Tales  deeply in love, and 
attempting to maintain a relationship across the vast 
expanse of space is not only a risk, but also a great 
artistic undertaking.
Being a self-described gamer, if the premise of this 
game was proposed to me directly, I would be extremely 
skeptical and would probably avoid it to some degree. 
However, going into this game without a ?rm grasp of 
what to expect, I was pleasantly surprised. Admittedly, 
the actual conversations themselves were random and 
confusing. According to the blog of programmer Michal 
Samyn, that was the point. But in my experience, this 
mirrors actual relationships, at least to some extent (even 
though for some reason most of my dialogue options 
were about wine).
If youre coming into Bientt lt expecting a normal 
video game, prepare to be disappointed (and probably 
shocked). Come into it with an open mind, expecting 
more of a calm experience than something to play and 
beat, and you will be treated to something remarkable. 
This is a prime example of an artistic game  
something to be admired and pondered, rather than 
treated with a competitive mindset. As the game 
reminds you when it begins, it is important to just be.
Ryan Black | Junior Staffwriter
Bientt lt is charming, simple, and sweet
Video game is uniquely centered on emotionally connecting with a stranger 
Matthew Zurcher | Staffwriter
We can all agree that Jim Carrey has made some very 
bad decisions. But we can also agree that, when given 
an intelligent script, he has an exciting, unique, and  
tragicomic personality (see Eternal Sunshine of the 
Spotless Mind, The Cable Guy). I Love You Phillip Morris 
gives Carrey a great opportunity to play those chops 
again. He stars as a con-artist and impostor willing to 
escape from multiple prisons to be with the love of his 
life (Ewan McGregor).
I Love You Phillip Morris
Thursday, Feb. 21
8 10 12
The Iron Lady
Friday, Feb. 22
10 12
The Iron Lady is a run-of-the-mill biopic with nearly no 
?avor, detailing the glory years of Margaret Thatchers 
reign. But at least theres Meryl Streep, right? Streep 
has garnered such an absurd amount of esteem among 
acting appreciators that this reasonably wretched ?lm 
was allowed to win Streep an Academy Award for her 
work. The ?lm follows Thatcher through a variety of 
life-changing events and her personal struggles as a 
powerful woman.
The Perks of Being a Wall?ower
Saturday, Feb. 23
8 10 12
Anyone who read this book in high school remembers 
it. Stephen Chboskys text was so formative to so many 
young people around the turn of the millenium that 
Im surprised it took this long to adapt to a ?lm. Alas, 
we are treated to a perfectly reasonable adaptation of 
Chboskys book. The author, a Pittsburgh native, also 
directed the ?lm, starring Logan Lerman, Emma Watson, 
and Ezra Miller. It chronicles the struggles of Charlie, a 
high-school social outcast, as he tries to ?t in. College 
students are a little outside the target audience and 
the ?lm plays unironically. But its an honest attempt at 
true, emotional ?lmmaking that mostly works: a major 
accomplishment these days.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

ACT 1
EXPRESSION IN WHITE
Laura West (senior design major)
QUARTZ
Samantha Chiu (sophomore BHA student) 
Antonio Ono (sophomore design major)
YOUNIQUE
Womens Boutique
A MINOR IN BLUE
Edie Ofstedal (?rst-year music major)
Julia Emmons (?rst-year music major)
TWOFOLD
Oshie Merski (sophomore design major)
SENSE & SENSIBILITY
Angela Thomas (?rst-year biology major)
DS COMPANY
Choreographer: Lila Fagen (junior design major)
NECROMANCING
Ibrahim Garcia-Bengochea (?fth-year architecture 
major)
SIROC
Andrea Gershuny (?rst-year art major)
Christin Bongiorni (?rst-year art major) 
Lorena Lopez (junior art major) 
Heather Cowie (?rst-year art major) 
Angelique Rein (sophomore Japanese  student)
VALIANT
Alex Wolfe (?fth-year computer science and arts 
major)
DECADE
Mens Boutique
MOBIER
Morgan Stampf (senior architecture major)
Scott Harrison (senior architecture major)
ADVECTION
Colleen Clifford (sophomore architecture major)
LAPPEL DU VIDE
Andreea Manolache (?fth-year Bachelor of 
Science and Arts student) 
John Brieger (junior computer science major)
ACT 2
ELECTRIC LICK
Choreographers: Nancy Geronian (junior 
statistics major)
Alyssa Gerharter (senior computer science major)
ECT
Erica Tong (senior architecture major)
PUNK
Scott Alberstein (junior design major)
Nigel Alcorn (junior design major)
MODCLOTH
Womens Boutique
OPPIDAN WINTER
Rain Chan-Kalin (?fth-year architecture and 
philosophy double major)
MILK & TINDER
Amanda Yuan (junior English major)
JUPE/PANELLA
Womens Boutique
PUSSYCAT
Womens Boutique
SOULSTYLZ
Choreographer: Andrew Capodieci (masters 
student in robotics)
WANDERLUST
Alanna Fusaro (junior design major)
CINE
Lilian Kong (senior design major)
BINARY
Maureen Griswold (senior design major)
PROXY
Rachel Ciavarella (sophomore design major)
Laura West, set to a peppy remix of a song by French 
pop group Yelle. The dresses featured plenty of ruf?es 
and were all made of the same unusual material: paper. 
As Lunar Galas website explains, Her collection aims to 
rede?ne what a wedding dress can be. By constructing 
the wedding dress out of a more sustainable material, 
paper, she aim[s] to put more importance on the 
memories of the day rather than the artifacts that are 
left over. Since the dresses were all made of the same 
material, the designs for all eight dresses were very 
similar.
Quartz, by sophomore design major Antonio Ono 
and sophomore Bachelor of Humanities and Arts 
student Samantha Chiu, featured a collection of eight 
all-white out?ts with geometric details that, according 
to Lunar Galas website, focuses on the tensions 
between structure and gravity, light and form, and the 
manufactured world versus the natural world.
Although Kate Spade was originally listed as a boutique 
whose clothes would be modeled in the show, clothing 
line Younique showed instead.
The rest of the designers in the ?rst act ?t the theme of 
a lighter spectrum, with several of the lines featuring 
pastel colors, lace and chiffon fabrics, and interesting 
geometric shapes. Sense & Sensibility, a line by ?rstyear biology major Angela Thomas, stayed true to her 
muse of Jane Austen with dreamy, pastel dresses and 
dapper bow ties and pastel pants for men.
Another highlight was Mobier, a shoe collection by 
fourth-year architecture majors Morgan Stampf and 
Scott Harrison. The shoes were structurally impressive: 
They were all highly geometric tan shoes with black 
ribbon details that were probably impossible to walk in, 
but looked like works of art.
The second act of the show featured darker colors 
and heavier fabrics. Oppidan Winter by ?fth-year 
architecture and philosophy double major Rain ChanKalin mixed heavy winter fabrics with dark-colored 
chiffon in well-crafted out?ts for both men and women.
The second act also included the most raucous moment 
of the evening, when men and women modeled for 
Pussycat, a lingerie boutique. Audience members 
cheered wildly for their friends, and when all the models 
for the boutique came out together at the end, they 
broke their serious poses for the ?rst time in the evening 
to dance along to the music.
Suddenly, a dancer for hip-hop dance team Soulstylz 
came out on stage and began dancing between the lines 
of models. The rest of the dancers in the troupe soon 
joined him, and they kept the audience cheering with 
their impressive, high-energy dancing.
The ?nal line of the evening  Proxy, by sophomore 
design major Rachel Ciavarella  was by far the most 
experimental line of the evening. Models wore simple, 
all-black out?ts with wild appendages; one model was 
encased in what looked like a white plastic ribcage, 
while another wore a high silver collar reminiscent of 
a visor on a suit of armor. Dark and experimental, it 
was a far cry from the white paper dresses that began 
the show, and exempli?ed the wide range of designs 
featured in the show.
At the close of the show, the executive producers 
thanked a long list of people and raf?ed off a Kate Spade 
handbag before closing the evening, encouraging 
everyone to attend the of?cial after-party at Club Whim 
in the South Side. As the audience members poured out 
of the gym, dancing to Macklemores Thrift Shop as it 
blared over the speakers, they chattered excitedly about 
all the fashion talent they had just witnessed. Carnegie 
Mellon may not have a fashion design program, but 
Lunar Gala proved yet again that there is still plenty of 
fashion talent on campus.
feature
pillbox 02.18.1398feature
pillbox 02.18.13
Pulsing music sets the beat for the model strutting down 
the catwalk. She strikes a pose for the myriad clicking 
cameras recording her out?t: black leggings, a black 
long-sleeved shirt, and a high silver collar reminiscent 
of a visor on a suit of armor. She struts back down the 
catwalk toward the fog billowing out at one end.
This high fashion event didnt take place on a runway 
in New York or Paris. It happened in Wiegand Gym last 
Saturday, as part of Carnegie Mellons annual Lunar 
Gala.
Although Saturdays show was under four hours long, 
the members of Lunar Gala have been working on the 
fashion show since last April, according to Alexander 
DeRonde, an executive producer for Lunar Gala and a 
senior Bachelor of Humanities and Arts student studying 
communication design and decision science.
This years theme of venin  the toxic substances found 
in the venom of snakes  was inspired by the Chinese 
New Year, DeRonde said. The past three years have 
been pretty vague themes because we dont like to 
constrict the fashion designers, he explained. But this 
year, we wanted to do something a little bit different, 
and we went into this year knowing that we wanted to 
have a theme with the show.
He and the other members of the Lunar Gala executive 
board  including fellow executive producers Chris 
Ioffreda, a senior design major, and Joanne Yun, a senior 
technical writing major  decided that as part of the 
theme, the designers lines would progress from light 
to dark. We wanted half the designers to ?t into the 
light spectrum and half the designers to ?t into the dark 
spectrum, DeRonde said.
The emphasis on theme wasnt the only change to this 
years show. Lunar Galas board decided to add multiple 
elements to the show, including video art created 
exclusively for Lunar Gala; 360-degree photographs of 
every out?t; promotional videos by cmuTV; and a mobile 
application that Gala attendees could view to learn more 
about the designs.
By incorporating more technology into the event, we 
thought we could really strengthen our image and 
draw in some people that maybe wouldnt normally be 
interested [in the show], DeRonde said.
The board also decided to turn to an outside public 
relations ?rm, Pretty Living PR, for help in promoting the 
event. [Lunar Gala is] the largest student-run event on 
campus, and we sort of realized that wed reached a wall 
when it comes to campus publicity, because we really 
exhausted our resources on campus, DeRonde said. We 
wanted to turn the fashion show into something thats 
important in the larger Pittsburgh community.
Participation in the gala was selective. Designers had 
to submit their proposed lines in the middle of the 
fall semester; ultimately, 19 lines were selected for 
the fashion show. Over 200 students auditioned to be 
models, but only about 60 were chosen.
Once selected, the participants had to put in hours 
of work every week. Maureen Griswold, a Lunar Gala 
designer and senior industrial design major, explained, 
You had to go to every rehearsal, and rehearsals were 
once a week usually in the evening [for about three 
hours]  and last week before the show there was 
practice every day.
All of that work culminated in Saturdays event, which 
featured three dance groups, ?ve local boutiques, six 
visual artists, 19 student-designed lines, nearly 60 
models, and almost 200 out?ts.
For the fashion show, Wiegand Gym was transformed 
into a dramatic space, with the catwalk striking out into 
the middle of the gym from a black curtain backdrop 
with mounted video screens. The seating area was 
packed, so for those who were sitting farther from the 
runway, there were multiple video cameras recording 
the models as they strutted down the catwalk, and the 
footage was broadcasted on several of the screens.
The show kicked off with Expression in White, a 
collection of wedding dresses by senior design major 
Lunar Gala 2013: VENIN bares its fangs
Annual student fashion show stuns audiences with professionalism, student innovation
Below left: Laura West designed wedding dresses out of tissue paper. Above: Twofold by Oshie Merski 
featured hot pink leggings paired with geometric gray shirts. 
by Anna Walsh | Contributing Editor[]
Jos Lopez | Staff Photographer
Jos Lopez | Staff Photographer
Jos Lopez | Staff Photographer

---------------------------------------------------

10community
pillbox 02.18.13
Three Carnegie Mellon alumnae came to Baker Halls 
Adamson Wing on Thursday to read their poetry as 
part of the English departments Alumni Reading 
Series.
Lillian-Yvonne Bertram (DC 06), Sarah Smith (DC 
05), and Anne Marie Rooney (DC 07) all pursued 
further education after graduating from Carnegie 
Mellon. Bertram earned her masters degree in 
?ne arts at the University of Illinois at UrbanaChampagne and is currently pursuing her Ph.D. at 
the University of Utah; Smith earned her MFA at the 
University of Texas at Austin; and Rooney earned 
her MFA at Cornell University. Bertram, Smith, and 
Rooney have all recently published books; Bertrams 
But a Storm is Blowing From Paradise, Smiths I Live 
in a Hut, and Rooneys Spitshine were all published 
in 2012.
The Adamson Wing was ?lled almost to full capacity 
for the reading; students and faculty from Carnegie 
Mellons English department made up the bulk of 
the audience. 
Rooneys poems were decidedly dark; words like 
black and darkness wove a common thread 
throughout her poetry, capturing the essence of 
the traditional tortured artist. At times, it felt a 
little heavy for the lighthearted atmosphere of the 
Adamson Wing.
Rooney ended with some unpublished poetry, 
including a poem dedicated to Carnegie Mellons 
Greek Quad, where Rooney said she had spent a lot 
of time her ?rst year at the university. 
Smith continued the readings with selections 
from her book, I Live in a Hut, and ended with an 
un?nished poem dedicated to her mother, who was 
in attendance. Smiths work was characterized by 
a dry, sarcastic wit that drew regular interjections 
of laughter from the audience. Her poems were 
generally more narrative than Rooneys, relying 
less on ?gurative language and more on detailed 
descriptions of relatively normal scenes that, despite 
their mundane nature, captured the full spectrum of 
human emotion.
But like Rooneys work, Smiths poems were 
sardonic and dark; she warned before reading what 
she called a Valentines Day poem that like many 
things in I Live in a Hut, its a little bleak. Indeed, 
most of Smiths poems deal with love lost rather than 
love found. 
Smiths last poem was what she called sort of 
an advice poem, directed at current Carnegie 
Mellon students. Titled Situational Humor, the 
poem captured the essence of Smiths experience 
at Carnegie Mellon and how she felt that current 
students should take advantage of their experience. 
Smiths down-to-earth reading style complemented 
the sharp wit of her poetry, making her the most 
successful of the three readers.
The last reader was Bertram, who began with a 
poem about Pittsburgh. Strip District Eclogue 
drew from Bertrams experiences within the city. 
Of the three poets, Bertram was the most abstract. 
Bertrams poems were often based in generous 
poetic license ?tted within precise form; in a couple 
of poems her experimental style detracted from the 
powerful emotion of her poetry. Bertrams locationbased poems, like Strip District Eclogue and her 
two fractals (a form of poetry she invented), had 
the most impact out of the poems she read; her 
language made it easy for the listener to imagine her 
in those settings.
Bertram, Smith, and Rooney ?nished the reading 
with a Q & A session, describing their creative 
processes, inspiration behind their poetry, and 
their perspectives on pursuing education past an 
undergraduate degree. In terms of writing poetry, 
Bertram said, Its like trying to call a cat; it doesnt 
really come when you want it to.
Its clear that all three artists keep strong ties 
to Carnegie Mellon: Although a good portion of 
the reading carried a serious, thought-provoking 
tone, the many poems dedicated to the university 
and to Pittsburgh made the reading an enjoyable 
celebration of Carnegie Mellon alumnae.
Brian Trimboli | Assistant News Editor
Alumnae return to campus
Three writers refer to Pittsburgh roots in their poetry
Catherine Spence | Staffwriter
Did you know?
100years ago
Jan. 30, 1913
The Thistle gets a new yearbook 
office in the hopes of recruiting more 
students to participate in the Carnegie 
Tech yearbook. Photos are needed 
and requests include the beautiful and 
not-so-beautiful things on campus, 
as well as photos of Panther Hollow, 
Schenley Park, and the students and 
staff that make up the campus.
50years ago
Feb. 27, 1963
An interview with Marilyn Hammond, 
a home economics teacher and 
supervisor of the Margaret Morrison 
Nursery, sheds light on the purpose 
of an on-campus nursery: The 
children are carefully selected to give 
psychology students the chance 
to evaluate real children for a more 
practical approach to their studies.
25years ago
Feb. 16, 1988
An editorial article urges the 
administration to name the newest 
campus dormitory after alumna Judith 
Resnik, who was killed in the 1986 
Challenger space shuttle explosion. 
She held a Ph.D. in electrical 
engineering from Tech, was a member 
of a sorority, wrote for The Tartan, and 
played classical piano.
10years ago
Feb. 17, 2003
The weekly Persons Opinion asks 
students, Why is it so cold? Answers 
range from comments on the time 
of year to Because God hates 
Pittsburgh and Because Punxatawney 
Phil hates Pittsburgh. Some students 
are more optimistic and claim that 
patience is the secret to withstanding 
Pittsburgh winters.
5years ago
Feb. 18, 2008
The University Athletic Association 
names 59 varsity athletes to its AllAcademic Recognition list for the 
winter sports season of 2008. To 
be eligible for the honor, students 
must have completed a full year of 
coursework and earned a 3.2 QPA. 
Recipients of the award represent a 
variety of sports for both sexes.
1year ago
Feb. 20, 2012
The School of Drama presents a 
rendition of the musical Hair that is, 
as senior directing major Christian 
Fleming describes it, Vibrant. Visceral. 
Introspective. Students are equally 
impressed with the casting of the play 
and the instrumental accompaniment.Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor
Carnegie Mellon alumna Anne Marie Rooney read 
her poetry in the Adamson Wing last Friday.

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 02.18.1311
Solutions from Feb. 11
CrosswordMedium DifficultyEasy Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Hard Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Hard Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.krazydad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue on its top. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

12horoscopes
pillbox 02.18.13
1. Minnesotas St. ___ College
2. Work the soil
3. Golfer Aoki
4. Orange root plant
5. Synopsis
6. Has been
7. Iams alternative
8. Bridget Fonda, to Jane
9. Faulkners ___ Lay Dying
10. Norm
11. Garage event
12. Has a bug
13. Prohibitionists
19. Tins
21. Actor Novello
25. Climbing vine
27. Vanilla ___, American rap star
28. Academy award
29. Genevas river
30. Ages
31. In readiness
33. Govt. security
34. Fungal infection
35. Hanker
38. Doughnut-shaped surface
41. Form a sac for DNA
43. Usually
46. Him, to Henri
48. Christmas song
51. Decorative case
53. Air rifle projectile
55. Run away with a lover
57. Course
58. He sang about Alice
59. 1982 Disney film
61. Slaughter of baseball
63. Rescue
64. Gen. Robert ___
65. Sailors
67. Biblical possessive
68. High mountain, as found in central 
Europe
1. Ear-related
5. Stately aquatic bird
9. Syrian president
14. Actress Bonet
15. Colombian city
16. Flight of steps
17. Banned apple spray
18. Particularly
20. Former British coin
22. Andean tuber
23. Capones nemesis
24. Cameo shape
26. Childrens author Blyton
28. Handel bars
32. Silly
36. Pronoun for a ship
37. Laughing
39. Berts buddy
40. Masked critter
42. Pungent bulb
44. Lady of Spain
45. Invalidate
47. Segment of the body of an 
arthropod
49. Thrice, in prescriptions
50. Free from danger
52. Continental inhabitant
54. Miller offering
56. Hooks helper
57. Go out with
60. Suffix with glob
62. Ready to go
66. Deprived of reason
69. In ___ land
70. Laziness
71. Voting-pattern predictor
72. Always
73. Bee stuff
74. Catch a view of
75. Golf pegs. northern English 
river
ACROSSDOWN
Fortune Cookies
aries
march 21april 19
What you will discover is yourself.
taurus
april 20may 20
Youre transforming yourself into someone who is certain to 
succeed.
gemini
may 21june 21
Pursue your wishes aggressively.
cancer
june 22july 22
You will become a great philanthropist in your later years.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Everyone has a photographic memory  some just dont 
have film.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
Well, why not? Admit it, youre intrigued.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
Three can keep a secret ... if you get rid of two.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
The star of riches is shining upon you.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Oops ... wrong cookie.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
A truly creative person rids him or herself of self-imposed 
limitations.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Your biggest virtue is your modesty.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
You will inherit a large sum of money.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 02.18.1313
Poorly Drawn Lines by Reza Farazmand
poorlydrawnlines@gmail.compoorlydrawnlines.com

---------------------------------------------------

14comics
pillbox 02.18.13
Sittin on the Fence by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Crinkled Comics by Juan Fernandez
jjfernan@andrew.cmu.educrinkledcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar
pillbox 02.18.1315
MONDAY2.18.13
The Black Shades. Gar?eld Artworks (4931 Penn Ave.). 
8 p.m.
Kentucky-based garage rock band The Black Shades will 
perform at Gar?eld Artworks with The Lopez and Nick 
Lawless.
TUESDAY2.19.13
Brown Bag Chamber Music Concert. McConomy 
Auditorium. 12 p.m.
The School of Music will put on an hour-long concert 
featuring student soloists and chamber music ensembles 
as part of its Brown Bag series. The event is free 
and open to the public, and audience members are 
encouraged to bring their lunches.
School of Art Lecture Series: Tehching Hsieh. Kresge 
Theater. 5 p.m.
Taiwanese performance artist Tehching Hsieh will give a 
lecture as part of the School of Art Lecture Series. Hsiehs 
performances typically last for long periods of time  
often a year  and are considered explorations of time 
and struggle. The lecture is free and open to the public.
WEDNESDAY2.20.13
The Color Fleet. brillobox (4104 Penn Ave.). 9:30 p.m.
Pittsburgh indie pop/rock band The Color Fleet will 
perform at brillobox with Grand Piano and The Dressed 
Frets. The concert is for ages 21 and up.
THURSDAY2.21.13
Jennifer Haigh reading. Carnegie Library Main Branch. 
6 p.m.
New York Times bestselling author Jennifer Haigh will 
discuss and read portions of her latest book, News From 
Heaven. A book signing will follow the reading. The event 
is hosted by Pittsburgh Arts & Lectures and is free to the 
public.
FRIDAY2.22.13
Film Screening: Danube Hospital. McConomy 
Auditorium. 6:30 p.m.
Danube Hospital is an experimental documentary by 
?lmmaker Nikolaus Geyrhalter about one of the largest 
hospitals in Europe, located in Austria. The ?lm is 
presented by Carnegie Mellon International Film Festival 
and the Miller Gallery.
Scotch Ball. Phipps Conservatory. 8 p.m.
The Carnegie Mellon Ballroom Dance Club presents the 
annual Scotch Ball. Students, faculty, and staff are invited 
to dress up for an evening of live jazz music, dancing, and 
performances. Tickets can be purchased at the University 
Center Information Desk.
Obvious presents: Goth-Trad. Belvederes Ultra-Dive 
(4016 Butler St.). 9:30 p.m.
Obvious presents Tokyo-based dubstep musician GothTrad. The event is $10 at the door and is for ages 21 and 
up.
SATURDAY2.23.13
Roots of Rock n Roll XXXIX. Benedum Center. 
8:30 p.m.
This years Roots of Rock n Roll lineup includes Charlie 
Thomas Drifters, Kenny Vance & The Planotones, The 
Flamingos featuring Terry Johnson, Kathy Young, Josh 
White Jr., and Pure Gold. More information and tickets 
are available at trustarts.org.
SUNDAY2.24.13
Oscar Night. McConomy Auditorium. 7:30 p.m.
AB Special Events and ABC Campus Crew present an 
Oscar viewing party with free food and chances to win 
prizes. The event is free for students.
ONGOING
Inventing the Modern World: Decorative Arts at the 
Worlds Fairs, 18511939. The Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Feb. 24. 
This exhibit features works ranging from jewelry to 
furniture that showcase changing tastes in aesthetics and 
design within the span of nearly nine decades.
Power Pixels. Wood Street Galleries. Through April 7. 
The Wood Street Galleries is hosting an exhibit by visual 
artist Miguel Chevalier that features two self-generative 
video installations. More information and gallery hours are 
available at woodstreetgalleries.org.
Feminist and... The Mattress Factory. Through May 26.
This exhibit features works by six female artists from 
around the world, aiming to show that feminism is a 
multivocal, multigenerational, and multicultural movement, 
not a single-issue set of political beliefs. The exhibit was 
guest-curated by Hilary Robinson, a former professor of 
art theory and criticism at Carnegie Mellon.
Compiled by Allison Cosby | Contributing Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 02.18.13
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Guest lecturer Michael Witmore, director of the Folger Shakespeare 
Library in Washington, D.C.  one of the worlds largest Shakespeare 
collections  spoke in the Giant Eagle Auditorium on Friday as part 
of A Celebration of the Humanities. The afternoon-long event included 
student presentations and remarks by Dietrich College Dean John 
Lehoczky and aimed to foster a sense of pride in Carnegie Mellons 
humanities programs.
lecture.
