LAST SALE! 
CAMPUS WEEK TAGS 
TOMORROW
VOL. XXII NO. 31
C. W. SHOW 
"WEDDING BELLS 
GAYETY
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, MAY 1, 1928
CHOOSE OFFICERS 
FOR NEXT YEAR-IN 
ANNUAL ELECTIONS
COMMENCEMENT INVITATIONS
ON SALE IN ALL SCHOOLS
Positions in Each School Are 
Closely Contested; In Many 
Cases Revotes Necessary
RE-CASTING FOR REST 
TO BE TODAY AT 11:30
Trend in Student Idols Differ in 
Four Schools; Plebes Prefer 
Athletes
During the last week beginning 
Tuesday, April 24, the annual elections 
for class officers were held in all four 
colleges. In each election polled 
more votes than the corresponding 
election of last year, many of the con
tests being so close that a revote is 
necessary. This turnout of voters is 
very encouraging to believers in stu
dent government and it is hoped that 
increased student interest will be 
shown by Carnegie in choosing its 
leaders. A noticeable difference be
tween senior and sophomore selections 
is the type of student elected by each 
class. According to their choice, 
freshmen prefer athletes for .their 
leaders, while this years juniors se
lect their officers on qualifications 
other than physical prowess.
In Industries College the senior elec
tions are: President,Harvey White; 
vice president, R. Broxcious; secre
tary, R. A. Wilson; senate representa
tive, Kerr; Student Council repre
sentative, J. H. Seibert. There will be 
a revote for the second member of the 
senate representative between Mc
Neill and Tliomas, and athletic repre
sentative between Lovewell and Formichella..
The juniors elected are: J. Bond,
president; F. Sangster, vice president; 
Ashwell, secretary; Holverstadt, treas
urer; Kenney and Nielson, senate rep
resentatives, and Hubbard, senate 
. treasurer. '
The sophomores will hold a revote 
on the following candidates for offices: 
President, Long and Eyth; secretary, 
Dr-eshar and Cook; treasurer, Zeiher 
and Treon; senate representative,
Liddy and Schnuppe.
In Science College next years se
niors elected the following officers: 
President, Carson; vice president, 
Clemens; secretary, Barr; treasurer, 
Frank; senate representatives, Mc
Combs and Noble; Student Council 
representatives, Gimmel and Gilcrest; 
athletic representative, Bronson.
The junior officers are: Bush, presi
dent; Tomer, vice president; Loxterman, secretary; Daum, treasurer; 
Foote, senate representative; Connel
ly, senate treasurer.
The sophomore officers are: Presi
dent, Weitzel; vice president, Black;
Continued on Page Five.-)
The special Senior Commencement 
Programs were put on sale yesterday 
in the halls of the four colleges. There 
are two types of binding available: 
the leather, and an attractive paper 
cover. The charge for the leather 
program is 50 cents and that for the 
paper covered one is 25 cents. The 
program contains the names of all 
graduates listed by departments, in
cluding the men getting certificates, 
the night school graduates, and the 
students receiving profesional degrees. 
Senior Class officers as well as all 
members of Senior Class Committees 
will be printed in the programs. All 
orders must be accompanied with 
cash, and no orders will be taken 
after May 9.
Pre-Campus Week Worries and Joys 
Compensate For Frogs and Teachers
Campus Week Dances 
Start With Migratory 
And Dorm Dance, Wed.
Coronation Ball Thursday and 
Cabaret Dance Friday to 
Complete Revel
The hurdy-gurdy of life is about to 
increase its speed, now. that Campus 
Week is here. The air itself is 
charged with excitement and sus
pense. The climax of the year lias 
come. People ask why one goes to 
college. Nearly every Techite could 
answer, Why, to go to Campus 
Week, of course. Such a silly ques
tion!
We part with a couple hundred dol
lars in September, suffer through a 
couple dozen classes every week, 
even study occasionally, smash our 
thumbs with machinery, dig frogs 
apart, pound a typewriter or piano day 
after day, smear our faces with 
grease and in such fashion smirk and 
rage and gambol before the public in 
the Little Theater, smell atrocious 
odors in the chemistry labs, build 
bungalows or airplanes, and love our 
oppressors all year long. And yhy? 
So that we may go to Campus Week.
And now that Campus Week is here,
I we are busier and dizzier than during 
the whole year in a sum. Everyone 
| runsno time to walk leisurely! No 
j time really to eatjust stop a mo
ment and watch the apple-stuffed 
cheeks rush by. And the furrowed 
brows! One furrow deepening when 
the best girl frieud wont promise 
definitely about the Migratory. Anj other furrow blackening when the in
visible hole in ones cash pocket 
seems to let out all the contents. 
Still another furrow darkens when 
' the tailor scorches the lapel of the 
one and only presentable suit, or the 
dressmaker gets appendicitis in the 
midst of making the Campus outfit. 
And a good dozen male brows wear 
the mark of remorse continually as 
they mentally kick themselves for not 
having rushed the Campus Queen 
when the opportunity had been ripe.
Campus Week is a turmoil of hope, 
despair, suspense, ecstacy, and every 
other emotionboth a comedy and a 
tragedy.
NIGHT STUDENT-ALUMNI
TAG SALE NOW GOING ON
The same program in the distribu
tion of Campus Week tags is to be 
followed in regard to night students 
as that which was pursued in the 
regular day student sales, that is 
there is to he the saino limit of one. 
student tag and oue guest, tag at the 
same price of one dollar apiece. 
These night student tags may be se
cured at the same desk as the day 
student tags and at, the same,hours. 
There will also be a sale i in the Stu
dent Council office from 7:30 till S:30, 
Tuesday and Wednesday evenings, for 
those night students desiring tags.
Alumni tags may be secured by 
both day and night men on Tuesday 
evening at the graduate managers of
fice of the gymnasium. This office is 
also known as the alumni office and 
will probably be in charge of Miss 
Andrews when the tags are distrib
uted. All night and alumni people are 
requested to follow this schedule in 
buying their tags.
THE CARNEGIE QUARTERLY j F R A TERN1T1ES TO ENTER 
TO MAKE DEBUT MAY 10 SWEEPSTAKES 3:30 THURS.
A.X.A. Will Make Annua! 
Qualification Day Call
The Carnegie Chapter, Theta, of 
Alpha Chi Alpha, womens national 
honorary journalistic fraternity, will 
make their annual call on qualifica
tion day, May 3. This will be the 
second call this year. The first, con
trary to custom, was made at the 
Xmas general assembly. Several rea
sons were responsible for this change 
ini policy; the first, that the existing 
members of the fraternity were all 
seniors, who did not feel that it 
would be beneficial either to the or
ganization or the prospective pledges 
to make the call as late as qualifica
tion day, when after two weeks, the 
old members would all he graduated, 
thus leaving a complete responsibility 
without sufficient training, upon the 
new members. Then again, there 
were VO many girls prominently ac
tive in journalism that it seemed nec
essary, and only fair to them, to make 
a call at this time. A tea, at which 
both Dean Green and Dean Breed 
were present, was given for the pros
pective calls by Alpha Chi Alpha. 
The girls accepted at the Christmas 
call are Gladys Connor, Dorothy Roy, 
Ruth Bramson and Helen Booth, ju
niors, and Helen Whiteliill, Kay Boyd 
and Kay ODonnell, sophomores.
Alpha Chi Alpha will hold its ini
tiation, following the qualification day 
call, on May 15 or 16. A banquet in 
the Carnegie Inn, to honor the new 
members an$ alumnae, will follow the 
formal initiation ceremonies. All the 
alumnae, 31 members, are especially 
requested to attend. It is of interest 
to Carnegie students to note that both 
the recently elected campus queen, 
Betty McFadden, and her two maids 
of honor, Jean Roy and Marjorie 
Snodgrass, are prominent members of 
Alpha Chi Alpha.
As Carnegies ninth annual Campus 
Week gradually draws closer and 
closer the excitement and tension on 
the campus becomes greater until, it 
will finally burst forth one week from 
tomorrow night.
Promptly at 9:00 p. m. tomorrow 
evening, May 2. twenty orchestras 
will endeavor to announce to the hap
py students of Carnegie that the ninth 
Campus Week has begun. The an
nual Greek affair, The Migratory 
Dance, will last from 9:00 oclock un
til 1:30 a. m. Contrary to the usual 
custom, there will' be no extensive 
decorating of the fraternity houses 
due to the many objections raised by 
the faculty and by the fraternities 
themselves. Many of the fraternities 
found that, the decorations were too 
expensive and the faculty deplored 
the class cutting which occurred prior 
to Campus Week because of the dec
orations which were being put up.
The famous Collegiate Imps will 
play at the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fra
ternity house for the Migratory while 
the Golden Gate Eight will play at the 
Sigma Nu House. At the Sigma Phi 
Epsilon fraternity either Praid Rev
elers or Homer Johnstonbaughs 
Collegians; will hold forth. The 
Delta Upsilon fraternity lias engaged 
A1 Rolilands "College Club Orchestra 
for the Migratory dance. The Geor
gians will play at the Phi Kappa 
houses.
Special notice should be taken of 
the change of address of two of the 
fraternity houses. The Pi Kappa Al
pha fraternity will be at home in 
their new house at 1445 Wiglitman 
street. The Phi Sigma Kappa frater
nity willalso be at home in thennew house, at 4807 Baum boulevard 
formerly occupied by Pi Kappa Alpha. 
Anyone' not familiar with the rest of 
the locations of the fraternities may 
refer to the bottom of page three of 
(Continued on Page Six)
Staff Urges Hearty Student Sup
port; Promises Wide Range 
of Material
Freshmen Qualify For 
Honor Of Clan Inclusion
The complete schedule for Fresh
men Girls Qualification Ceremony is 
as follows: The M. M. Freshmen will
be dressed and assembled in front of 
M. M. at 1:10 sharp. The Arts Fresh
men will assemble in front of Art 
School at the same time and under 
Peg Minor will march to M. M. where 
they will join the Arts, Science, and 
Industries, six of whom will carry the 
casket. To the. strains of the Funeral 
March played by the band the 
Freshmen Class will follow the body 
to the Bowl where the last rites will 
be observed.
The girls are to be dressed in white 
with black ties and black shoes, and 
will carry flowers. It is customary to 
drop flowers or an armband into tho 
grave as the procession files by after 
the funeral address has been deliv
ered. The entire ceremony is simple 
and impressive when all the girls en
ter into it with the right spirit. It is 
an honor, not a joke, although Fresh
men often fail to realize the fact. To 
the Class of 31 may it be said that 
on Thursday you will come to the end 
of your year of trial. You have been 
tried and found to meet the test and 
now it is your privilege to become 
members of the Clan Carnegie. The 
Qualification Exercises are for you 
and you alone; and may you make 
them something that you will feel is 
worthy of your best.
The Carnegie Quarterly, Carnegie's 
new Literary magazine is definitely 
scheduled to make its initial appear1 ance on the Campus on May 10. The 
| intention of putting the magazine on 
sale during Campus Week was aban
doned because the staff felt that the 
; appearance of the magazine was an 
event which, in the preoccupation of 
students during Campus Week, might 
not receive the attention it needs and 
1 merits.
| Due to the tremendous amount of 
material which can be printed on a 
single page, the staff has found it posi sibl'e to compress the entire amount 
of material, which it was at. first be
lieved would fill 64 pages, into a maga
zine of 48 pages. The cost of the 
magazine"will be 25 cents a copy. In 
order to secure t.lie financial' success 
of the magazine each student is urged 
.to purchase a copy.
! After several weeks of intermittent 
! deliberation, the staff has decided to 
eliminate all book reviews from the 
first issue of the publication. The un
expectedly large quantity of excellent 
material submitted by the students 
: makes it necessary to omit much that 
, would prove of interest and value to 
the readers; this material will, how
ever, probably appear in later issues 
| of the magazine.
The Carnegie Quarterly, even with
out the book review section will con
tain a variety of departments. There 
will be two or three short stories 
which have been chosen both for their 
artistic and human appeal. A poetry 
section, a technical section, theater 
reviews, sketches, familiar and per
sonal essays, as dialogue and several 
features certain to surprise and de
light Carnegie students, have been se
lected to appear on the pages of the 
first number of the new literary maga
zine.
It is perhaps difficult for the stu
dents at Carnegie to realize the earn
estness with which the Quarterly is 
regarded by the staff. To them, as to 
all the people deeply interested in the 
success of the magazine, the under
taking is a tremendous project, which 
will perhaps determine .finally whether 
Carnegie Tech needs and wants a 
magazine of literary merit. The 
Quarterly is in every sense of the 
phrase, an All-Carnegie magazine, not 
(Continued on Page Four.)
Winner to Have Recognition on 
Speed Cup Presented by 
Alpha Tau
"Theyre off! will be the cry from 
almost every Carnegie Student and 
many other observers when the Intrafraternity Sweepstakes entrants make 
their first wild dash at 3:3-0 oclock, 
Thursday afternoon. . Small cars, 
largu cars, bright dazzling cars, queer 
looking cars, and some that may 
even look like automobiles may be 
seen speeding around tho bencjs and 
up' and </lown the hills of ;Schenley 
Prirk as though they were some mid
get machinesbut there will or should 
bo someone behind pushing for all 
the might he can muster for that 
ehevished honor of being first.
Along the sides of the roads of the 
cours6, dear brothers, fond sweet
hearts, proud mothers, admiring ldddiwhi'and just plain watchers will be 
cheering and encouraging the man 
in whom they are most interested. 
Such will be the case Thursday after
noon when the three, heats will be run 
for the purpose of picking the fastest 
cars for the finals which will be run
off Friday morning at 10:30, when all 
the enthusiasm of the day before will 
be over-shadowed by the wild glamor 
of the finals.
And the winner of tho race will 
have the honor of having his fraterni
tys naino engraved on the Speed Clip 
donated by Alpha Tau along with the 
names of PI Kappa Alpha and Kappa 
Sigma who won the race the last two 
years respectively. This system of 
award is slightly different from tho 
one related in last weeks Tartan and 
the committee wishes that everyone 
note the change.
Another change which the commit
tee hopes will be observed is the cor
rection of section C of Rule 4 of 
tho mimeographed sliest of rules. The 
section reads: All men who are at
present actively engaged. in varsity 
track are ineligible to push. This 
is not correct, for if the man has 
not yet earned his ."C in track he is 
eligible to push.
Ralston And Seibert 
Editor And Business 
Manager Of Tartan
Sidells and Hubbard Are Ap
pointed to Head 1929 
Puppet Staff
COMMITTEES PLANS 
FOR CAMPUS WEEK 
ASSURE ITS SUCCESS
Student Response at Sale of 
Tags Indicates That 1928 
Frolic. Will be Well Attended
NEW EVENTS INCLUDE 
DANCE AND CARNIVAL
Queen of Campus Week, Betty 
McFadden to Appear at 
Vaudeville Show
The following publication announce
ments for 1928-1929 have been ap
proved by Student Council. Stewart 
C. Ralston will be thp Editor-tinChief 
of the Tartan, while I. 11. ("Spooks) 
Seibert will be Business Manager. 
The complete Puppet Staff has also 
been announced.
"Stew Ralston, new Tartan head, 
is a member of Sigma Nu Social Fra-1 
ternity, and Theta Tau, Professional I 
Engineering, and the Science Senate,' 
and President of the 1928-1929 Y. M.
C. A. Cabinet, besides serving as 1 
Chairman of the Campus Week1 
Publicity Committee, and serving on 
the Junior Prom Committee, and as < 
Fraternity Editor of the Thistle. 
Spooks Solberl. a member of Sig
ma Alpha Epsilon Social Fraternity, 
and Alplid Tau Fraternity, during the ' 
past year has served as Advertising 
Manager of the Tartan and is at pres
ent working on the Ticket Sales Com
mittee for the Campus Week Show. 
At the recent elections "Spoolc was 
elected Studont Council Representa
tive for the Industries Senior Class. 
"Spook has served on many com
mittees Including that of tho Gambol 
of the On I Ids.
"Art Sidolls and "Phil Hubbard 
have been appointed respectively 
Editor and L.XI.OXN Manager of next 
years Puppet Staff. Tho other men 
appointed are as follows: Henry LoxtermanAdvertising Manager, N. Jt. 
Borman and John IJpstill Art Edi
tors, Bruce R. GilcrestCirculation 
Manager, Robert G. BowmanLit
erary Editor.
The merit and ability of these men 
has been tested and it is felt that this 
staff will be able .to keep the Puppet 
in its rightful place anmong the 
humorous magazines.
Art Sidells is a Junior in the Depart(Continued on Page Two).
pi KAPPA ALPHO PURCHASES 
HOUSE ON WIGHTMAN STREET
EAGLESMERE CONFERENCE
OPEN TO Y. W. C. A. MEMBERS
| The members of the Y. W. C. A. 
j are again getting ready for a conferj ence at Eaglesmere this summer. The 
j conference will be held from June 12 
J to June 23. Eaglesmere is a camp in 
 Northwestern Pennsylvania where 
representatives of the schools in the 
eastern section, of the country spend 
several days together discussing and 
attempting to solve some of the prob
lems of the everyday life.
The trip to Eaglesmere is well 
worth consideration. It is an oppor
tunity to meet 500 girls from diverse 
colleges, to enter into discussions and 
gain new ideas, to become acquainted 
with the outstanding leaders of reli
gious, educational, industrial, and so
cial fields under whose guidance the 
conference is conducted. An ample 
portion of the time will be devoted 
to recreation. The Y. W. C. A. of 
Carnegie should be well represented. 
Any, girls who are interested in at
tending the conference slu neak 
to Marjorie Snodgrass or to some 
member of the Y. W. C. A. cabinet. 
Every student is urged to attend.
Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity announci the purchase of a house at 1445 
/ightman street, where they will be 
ermanently located after Saturday, 
pril 28.
For several years the chapter lias 
silted the house at 4807 Baum bouleard, but after a long siege of eneavor the goal was reached in the 
urchase of a house of their own. The 
aternity is glad to announce their 
uccess in acquiring a house on 
Wiglitman street which is nearer to 
le eampus than the boulevard.
I Coming at this time of the year the 
(}ate of occupancy is very appropri
ate since they have had just time 
nough to arrange from Campus 
Week.
Carnegie Y.M.C.A. Student 
Officers Installed Sunday
ffHI SIGMA KAPPA TO
OCCUPY NEW HOUSE
FOR THE MIGRATORY
! The Phi Sigma Kappa fraternity 
wishes to announce that they will be 
fjettled in their now house af; 4807 
Baum boulevard for the Migratory 
dance tomorrow night. The Phi Kap
pa Alpha fraternity formerly occu
pied the house.
The new Phi Sigma Kappa house is 
j^iuch larger than their old house on 
Wightman street, and the members 
of the fraternity feel that they will 
be more able to carry on their work 
is a growing chapter of a fraternity 
should.
The installation of the Y. M. C. A. 
student officers for the year 28-29 
was held Sunday evening, April 29, in 
the Ruskin Apartments. The instal
lation was attended by members of 
the Committee of Management, the 
Stydent 'Council, and directors of the 
Metropolitan Y. M. C. A. The offi
cers installed were Stewart C. Rals
ton, president; Robert PI. Weliile, vice 
president; and Raymond C. Johnson, 
secretary. The new officers were in
stalled by Shelby McMillan, retiring 
president; Rollin V. Davis, executive 
secretary of the Y. M. C. A.; and Pro
fessors S. E. Dible and H. IC. Kirk
patrick. Addresses were made by 
Professor S. E. Dible, chairman of the 
Committee of Management; Shelby 
McMillan, the retiring president; and 
Stewart C. Ralston, the new president, 
The installation ceremony was pre
ceded by a dinner. The new Y. M. C. 
A. Cabinet Includes also the following 
men: William G. Carson, Tracy R.
Stevens, Alexander M. Orr, Francis J. 
Downs, William McNeill, Thomas Lip
pert, Henry L. Bunker, Jr.
The Y, M, C. A. is sponsoring the 
Eaglesmere Conference and anyone 
Interested is urged to stop In the "Y 
office and see Mr. Davis. The Eagles
mere conference is held at a camp In 
northwestern Pennsylvania, and is at
tended by representatives of schools 
in the eastern part of the country. 
The conference deals with the discus
sion of the every day problems of life.
One more day and then Campus 
Week with its two days and three 
nights of care-free pleasure. Plans 
are about complete, arrangements of 
the various necessary details made, 
and decorations hung.
Tomorrow is the last day for stu
dents who have not purchased their 
tags to do so. Tags will be on sale 
until 5:3-0 Wednesday in Central 
Building for the convenience of .stu
dents of all colleges who have not pro
cured tags. Night students may oh; 
tain tags on Tuesday and Wednesday 
nights from 7:30 to 8:30. The price 
is one dollar, and each student may 
secure one student tag and one guest 
tag on presentation of registration 
card.
The migratory dance, Wednesday 
night, is the official opener of "Campus 
Week. With twenty orchestras in 
twenty fraternity houses, and a dance 
on the campus in the womens gym 
under the auspices of the dormitories. 
Carnogie migrators will find them
selves busy in trying to be everywhere 
that night.
In the morning at 10 oclock in Crirniegio Music Hall will bo hold the 
vaudeville show. An added attraction 
will be the official appearance of the 
campus queen, Betty MeFaddon. Art 
and beauty will be alternated with 
comedy and burlesque to bring ap
plause from the audience.,
At 1:110 the ploboH will bury Old 
Man Regulations amid solemn cere
monies and with the welding of the 
193.1 link to tho Carnogie chain, will 
become associated with members of 
tho Carnegie class. The swoopstakos 
cars judgmont will talce placo at 3 
p. m. In the evening at 9 o'clock 
Betty McFadden will bo crowned 
queen of the 1928 Campus Week at 
coronation exorcisos on the Machinery 
Hall stops. After the exercises the 
crowd will eelelp'ato her reign and 
honor Her Majesty in tho coronation 
dance at the gym and In the "Onion.
On Friday morning at 9:30 the dor
mitory girls and the commutors will 
hold a sweepstakes race, using unusual 
means of locomotion in unusual dross. 
A committee will award a prize for 
ingeniously designed costumes.
At 10:30 the intra-mural sweep
stakes finals will take place. At 1.1:30' 
the R. O. T. C. corps will parade and' 
(Continued on Page Five.) ,
FRATERNITY OFFICERS 
ELECTED FOR NEXT YEAR
It is customary at this time, 
among the sodial fraternities, to elect 
their houserofficers for the coming 
year. A number of the houses have 
already done so. The results of the 
elections that have been received are 
as follows:
Beta Theta PIPresident, Wayne 
High; vice president, Ralph Hitch
cock; secretary, Joseph Snyder; treas
urer, David Siiodgrass.
Pi Kappa AlphaPresident, J. J. 
Rietz; vice president, O. R. Seidner; 
secretary, G. D. Campbell; treasurer,
G. V. Durr.
Phi Kappa  President, Joseph 
Schmid; vice president, Albert Lange; 
secretary, Wm. Henderson; treasurer, 
Wilfrid Worland.
Beta Sigma RhoChancellor, Saul 
Mielziner; vice chancellor, Lester 
Cohn; warden, Harry Widom; vice 
warden, Hymen Levinson; auditor, 
Samuel, Kabakov; recorder, Marvin 
Fox.
Delta MuPresident, Carl Kumpf; 
vice president, Clyde McKee; treas
urer, Charles Miller.
Acacia  President, E. W. Livings
ton; secretary, W. Tasioos; treasurer, 
A. W. Burt.
Sigma NuCommander, G. L. Siebort; lieutenant commander, B. R. 
Gilcrest; recorder, S. C. Ralston.
Sigma, Phi Epsilon 1 President, 
David Hill; vice president, R. Devereli; secretary, Smith Goaly.
The following fraternities expect to 
complete their elections dirfipg the 
next two weeks: Delta Phi Delta,
Delta Tau Delta, Kappa Sigma Rho. 
Other houses will hold their elections 
later in the year.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE TWOTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 1, 1928
'rrrnDv l Production and Wage Plans As CLAN DIRECTORY I b .Used At An Equipment Factory
Martin, 315 Ninth
NOTE: The Clan Directory given below 1b 
Incomplete, and in Home cases, possibly incor
rect. It Huh boon compiled, hov/over, from l'ho 
latest available data. Any corrections or adI 
iitlons iihould be sent in immediately to tho 
Alumni Office.
BALTIMORE 
President, G. S. Diehl, Bollona Avenue. Secretary and Treasurer, 1*. II. Dlckoy, 1318 
Continental Building.
BOSTON
Secretary, John I1'. Maxwell, 70 Went Street, 
Braintree, Mass.
BUFFALO
President, Rbort Fortor, 1 BO Hoyt Street. 
Secretary and Treasurer, Herbert L. Moershfoider, :i4 Kolchutn Place.
CANTON
Preshlont, Frank J. Taylor. Ria Alta Place, 
N. W., Canton, Ohio.Vice PrcHdent, Henry L. Borger, DIG Croon 
Street, Massillo.n, Ohio.Secretary, Wllmor II. Tuckor, 1230% Clevcland Avonue, N. \V.
Treasurer, Coorte A 
Street, N. E.
CHICAGO
Chairman, C. J. Copley, 533 Wrltfley Building. 
Finance Committee, Huntley Wallace, Chairnian ; Vic Stromuulst, John Jiarkncsii. Program Committee, John Nation, Chairman ;
Harvoy Hiller, Mrs. il. W. 3.1IVCMembership Committee, C. B. Schmidt, Chair
man; Mrs. John Hark ness, Thad Wiieolor. 
Publicity, F. W. Cook.kll communications should l>e addressed to 
C. J. Copley,
CINCINNATI 
President, G. C. Smith, Chemical Department, 
University of Cincinnati.
CLEVELAND 
Freni dent, A. C. May, PeerleHB Automatic 
Machine Company.
Vice Preiiidont, O. K. Fulmer, 1849 East lOlnt 
Street.
Secretary, Ii 
Buildini;.Treasurer, L. C. Lustonberger, 18-19 EaHt IAINI 
Street. I
,j CMVELANI) WOMENS CLAN 
President, Katherine Kerr, 11)38 East 116th 
107
The following article was written by . plants regarding the quality of our 
Charles Erwin Wilson, a graduate of, production, whether it involves enAlpha Chi Alpha Will 
Invite Alumnae Members
tlie class of 1909. He IN probably re-! gliieering action or a change In the 
mmberod by Home of our carry ; factory methods or is merely a slip 
graduates as one of the brilliant I on the part of bis own inspectors. The
students of his class, and very ac1 sales manager, chief engineer and
live on the campus. He was u memj comptroller have the usual duties
herof Sigma Rho, or what is now j that the titles imply.
Beta Theta, Pi, and also Electrica. Premium Wage Plan Employed.
1-Ie was also interested in class athj The wage-payment plan in any orletics.
He TH now President of tile Delco 
Remy corporation.
Production schedules of the DelcoRemy Corporation must be laid out 
with reference to the requirements of
ganlzatlon is an important question. 
In Anderson wo have modification of 
the Bedaux system. The original
Alpha Chi Alpha, the womens lion! orary journalistic fraternity, will hold 
| a tea for the new members called 
Campus Week, and have extended an 
invitation to all alumni members. The 
date has been tentatively set for May 
17, but next weeks Tartan will have 
| more definite Information.
The fraternity, which has been do
ing excellent work on the campus dur
ing the last year or two, now boasts 
an alumni membership of thirty-five. 
It is planned to have as many as pos
Bedaux system is a premium system j sible of these members present at the 
which provides for time studies of all ' tea> an(1 invitations will be sent to all 
operation!) and for setting standards, j alumni in the Pittsburgh district
Attributed to Narrow 
Range of Study
Two very interesting papers were 
presented by Mr. Fisher; and Mr. New 
at the civil seminar held Wednesday, 
April 25. The paper presented by Mr. 
Fisher was entitled, "Methods of Har
bor Construction, while Mr. News 
paper was entitled Economics of 
Hpdro-electric Development.
Mr. New opened his paper by stat
ing that numerous technical men of................. 1 ~ -- -- -- - -----------  | , 1*1*6 umL jiuiumuub wiiuuiwi men utour customers, the motor-car manuj so that, 011 the average, the operators I We should perhaps not call the at-j tjle country had made the statement
facturers. Years ago we would get 1 make about 85 per cent premium. The 
a contract from an automobile manuBedaux system provides for paying 
facturer for 5,000, 10,000 or 50,000 (the operators a premium for 75 per
sets of electrical equipment, the j cent of the production above a cerquantlty the company expected to use j tain definite standard. In other 
(luring the year. We would buy ma-! words, If normal production 011 a part 
terial In the market 011 the basis of j amounted to 100 per hour, the operator 
that contract and start to fabricate . would be paid the base rate for that 
parts. In those days we had a very production. If the production were 
large inventory with relation to our increased to 150 per hour, the operamonthly shipments, and serious losses j tor would be paid the base rate plus
from cancellations and engineering 
changes resulted. Usually our cus
tomer wanted either twice as many or 
about a tenth as many units as he 
p. Batcham, 1080 Union Truol I lie Would take. So this was
found to be a poor way to run an ac:essory business.
Now we do not ask our customers
75 per cent of the extra 50 produced, 
or 1.375 times the base rate.
This Bedaux system was intro
duced in the Remy company about 
eight years ago. Since then it has 
been modified by applying it to groups 
of workers, in many cases, instead of 
to individuals. We believe in the
|J Strqet.Vice F real dent, Alice Nelson Koppea,
East 82nd Street.Secretary and Treasurer, Catherine Allan, C22 
' East 124th Street.
COLUMBUS, OHIO 
.President, N. J. Engle, 2(10 South High St. Vice President, Florence H. Lutz, 91 South 
Market Street, Logan, Ohio..'Secretary and Treasurer, J. R. Paloma, Do, partment of Romance Languages, Ohio 
, State University.
CONNECTICUT 
President, C. Arthur Nordstrom, 17 Sterling 
! Street', Hartford,.'Vic' President, William Gooby, 10 Madison 
, Street, New Britain.Secretary and Treasurer, Samuel Flaxman,
92 Vice Street, Hartford.
DAYTON. OHIO 
President, F. W. Heckert, 341 IConllwortli 
Avenue. \
DETROIT
PreHldent, W. Ray William*, enro West'inghouflo Electric '& Manufacturing Company, 
1535 Sixth Street.Secretary and Treasurer, C. L. Boyle, 3909 
Balfour Road.ERIE
President, Ray Keller, care Hnmmermlll 
Putter Company.Sec,rotary and Treasurer, R. C. Warren, caro 
The Warren Company.
GOLDEN GATE 
President, G. M. Whislor, 1778 Rose Street, 
Berkeley.Secretary and Treasurer, Mrs. R. L. Wharton, 
Box 147, Route i, Richmond, Calif. 
HARRISBURG 
President, John G. Todd, 20l/j North Queen 
Street, Lancaster.Vic* President, Ilenry Y. Slmuh, 20% North 
Queen Street, Lancaster.Secretary, Frank Hlirhberger, care State De
partment of Public Instruction, Harrisburg. 
HUNTINGTON, W. VA.
Secretary, J. F. DeYoung, 808 Second Street; 
Eaut.
JOHNSTOWN 
Secretary, John W. Fritz, 215 John Street.
ICOPPERS, PITTSBURGH 
President, I). J, MoFarlln, care Koppers Con
struction Company, Union Trust Building. 
Vice President, II. II. Hook.
Secretary, W. II. Neely.Treasurer, A, (. Wanner, together wllh J. G, 
itieo, 0. B. Collins, II. E. Warren, composing 
n Hoard of Governors.
MONONGAHEI.A VALLEY 
'President, Conrad A, Slone, Box 391, Char
leroi, Pa.Vice President, Mrs. All^u Nixon Conn, caro Kind Frederick Apartment, Fourth and Dock 
Streets, SteulMinvllle, Ohio.Secretary and Treasurer, A. B. Lowututior, 
JUmk No. 4. 1a.
MILWAUKEE 
President, A. II. Tonloson, 737 Fortieth Street. 
Secretary and Treasurer, N. L, Dlttmer, f40 
Second Avenue, Wnuwntono.
NEW YORK 
Secretary and Treasurer, Mryon Kltulf, 460U 
Avenue M, Brooklyn, N. Y.Publicity Manager, F. 1. Smith, care II. L. 
.Doherty Company, 01' Wall Street. 
NORFOLK
ivresident, T. 1). Fltaglbbon, Hi 0 Holt Street, 
NORTHERN NEW JERSEY 
President, C. W. Gibbs, care Itmornotl-Rami 
Company, 11 Broadway, New York City. 
Vice President, E. W. Van Der Wolk, 73 Grove 
Street, Montclair. N. .1.Treasurer, F. IC. Zelglor, 295 Union Aveuuo,
^ Belleville, N\ J.Secretary, J. F. Smanoy, 211 Locuut Street, 
<Uom)llp Park, N. J.
PHILADELPHIA 
President, M. D. Scott, 1515 Kathmero Road 
Brookline, Upiier Darby, Pa.
8eci'etary and Treasurer, T. S. Reppller, caro 
Edwards, Ewing & Jones, North American 
Building, Philadelphia.
Chairihau Entertainment and Membership 
Committee,' L. E. Exlino, 1620 Real Estate 
.Trust Building.
PITTSBURGH 
^President, G. Albert Wagner, care Tho Ivopiwrs Compony.'Vice President, L. II. Lee, 206 Stanwlx Stroet,
' Sceretary-Treasurer, Buddy Overend, Carnegie 
Tech:
SCHENECTADY 
 President, J. M. Sampson, 45 Bedford Street.
sViae President, J. L. Knight, ------
4b.tectric Company.'Secretary' and Treasurer, Raymond Gill, 206 
Union Street.ST. LOUISActing Secretary, M. A. Zellar, care of Ham
ilton Company, Inc., 2127 Pine Street. 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA 
President., Floyd Fisher, 814 North Fairmont 
Iioad,' Burbank, Calif.
Vice President, James Schofield, care Colum
bia Steel Corporation, 831 Pacific Electric 
XYalldmg.Secretary and Treasurer, Betty Flnkelhor, 200 North Oakhurst Drive, Beverley Hills, Calif. 
Executive Committee, John Meredith and 
Robert Finkolhor,TULSA
President, 11. G. Toxtor, caro Standard Soanv 
Hess Tube Company. 710 Mid Conti - 
Building.TV lee President, Arthur J. Kerr, 1617 Soutl 
Qvmker Avonue..Boeretary and Treasurer, II. W. Ponterman, 
JU)2 Mayo L.IRREEGSWASHINGTON, I). C.President, J. li. Arnold. 24 Second Street 
N. W.Vico 1resident, Harriot Staple, 3611 S Street
 Secretary and Treasurer. A. M. Pringle, 62' 
Lexington Place, N. K,
YOUNGSTOWN, OHIO 
President, 11, A. Bookmeyer, 1515 Elm Street 
Vice Ticaident, Fred C. Boedo, 1324 Ulllmai 
Street..Secretary and Treauurer, G cor go Murphy, 1871 
Selma Av
University of British Columbia.A 
-prize hen owned by the University of 
British Columbia last year earned 
twice-as much by laying eggs as the 
average stenographer earns annually 
by pcmmllng away on the typewriter.
to give us a contract for a definite group method of wage payment for 
number of units during the year, but premium work in three classes of pro
simply to assure us that their business : duction: (a) progressive productionis ours and that whatever, they need j line operations, (b) work done by 
they will buy from us. We tell them j skilled'"labor with helpers and (c) 
that we are in the automobile busiwork in which operations cannot well
ness with them; that we will take care 
of their requirements and will not 
cohiplain about short schedules or 
about having too much to do 011 short 
notice. We appreciate, however, all the
be divided and checked.
Where the work is naturally pro
gressive, each man performs an op
eration 011 a piece that is passed to 
him from the preceding operator and
fair a tea, as it will be more iu the 
nature of a banquet for the newly in
itiated. It will be held at the Inn. 
The newly elected members will 
present a special stunt, and there will 
be other entertainment.
More information will be contained 
011 the invitations and in the next 
Tartan.
work. The net result has been very 
satisfactory.
The third class of work which we 
believe in grouping is work of such 
a nature that it is very difficult phy
sically to keep track of the individual 
operations performed by the opera
tors in the department. A11 example 
is the plating department. There op
erators are grouped and the total 
number of pounds of plated pieces is 
checked out of the department and 
standards are set on the basis of tile 
total production from the department. 
No matter whether a given operator 
is washing pieces or cleaning them 
or stacking them on racks, the meu 
all pitch in and do whatever work is
that curricula in an Engineering I 
school is entirely too Technical and j 
that more liberal arts courses should 
be introduced. The fact that the ma-1 
jority of the Engineering students fare 
so badly, financially, upon leaving 
school is attributed to this condition. 
Carnegie Tech has introduced some of 
these supposedly needed subjects but 
it seems that they are considered very 
unessential /by the students and for 
this reason the courses do not accom
plish their purpose. Mr. New advo
cated that all of these courses be put 
under one head thus assuring co-ordination between them, as the title in
dicates. Mr. News paper was con
cerned with the costs and the financial 
yield of hydro-electric development 
He stated that the two most import
ant questions to be asked concerning 
and proposed development were: Is
there sufficient demand for power? 
and can a favorable price be secured 
for the developed power? Since the 
market for power has not been de
veloped in the west, the power devel
opment has lagged and is behind the
help we can get in forecasting our j the amount of work lie can do is 
schedules. The first of each month 1 really limited by the number of pieces 
we make a production schedule for ' passing through the group. Good extliat month and for the two months j amples of this type of production are 
following. These schedules have two motor and generator assembling,
columns: one showing shipments, and 1 where the machines start at one end 
the other showing the relations to the  of the line in the form of frames and 
production departments of the l'ac-: llie parts are added to them, each man 
lory. At certain times of the year we ! performing his t>peration as the parts 
build ahead of schedule, to eliminate j come along. Motor armature produeat hand to be done, knowing that if : east even though a gre^r percentage 
I each does his part they can all make ! of the available power is west of the 
money from the total production of | Missipp, and Missouri Rivers, that department.
Individual Rewards Better in Some 
Work.
I11 work such as generator armature 
winding, grouping does not work
a quick increase in production and . tion is another good example of proalso to give our employes something ! gressive work.
lo do\ In the slow time of the year, in 1 Group Effort Rewarded With Group 
November and December. I Premium.
Our production schedule Is broken | Te Bocoml ^ of work whicll. ,ve
material, and requisition are placed  operatorH Can actuary help one an
on tho purchasing department by the LthGr ln lllelr w0].k s0 that a hlt!1Uy 
material control section. The l11'* j skilled mn an do the more difficult 
basing agents usually buy material prj. ()f ^jle am ieS!i skilled
if a standard nature, that can be nboperator:; can help In the group. The 
slued from suppliers on short notice, b08t cuunplc this type of work is 
by tile month. Other materials, such | in automatic screw-machine :de-tile Swedish diaphragm steel usel  
in some of our horns, must fe mtr-. 
based six months ahead. The time 
'or getting in materials and the qunn-1 
litios purchased ahead are left to the
liroductlm manager and the puroliaa-l l|ng (1.oe Acm(J sc^w.magUi6B, and
I the set-up men changed the jobs on 
these machines from one piece to an
other and took care of trouble that 
, might occur in I he production. This 
 Het-up man had 110 particular respon1 sibility for th<i production, and tho oporators, when a machine was in trouing agent.
o mako our oprations a little 
:lcurer, I wlII oxplaln wlmt might be 
:alled our organl/.atlon chart. Wo 
bave a factory manager, sales man
ger, chlef onglnoor, production man
ager, ch lof inspecter, service manAcuity in keeping count of the num[ 011 piles would be made unpractical 
her of pieces produced by each op-, due to costs. Storage facilities both 
erator. The work also is such that it * 011 and off'the wharf were touched 
is necessary to follow the work of in-1 upon. The storage house 011 the 
dividual operators for quality. While (wharf is known as the transit shed 
down into parts and finally into, raw believe in 'gmupliig is that inwhich jthe Klrls are learning to wind arma-1 and is used for goods that mat have
perienced operators and it is neces-! taken to the warehouse. The waresary to follow their, work, to see that 1 house_is used for all surplus stock 
they are winding armatures well and \ and may be located off the wharf 
that their production is increasing as , With the development of a new type 
it should. J elevator which insures better and
Where a: complete department has 1 speedier floor connections it has been 
partment. According to our old i,,eeu rolll)ed, or practically a com-1 possible to build warehouses as high 
method there was a set-up for each 'I)lete Plantthis type of work also was j as twenty stories. The methods of 
battery' of machines An operator KrouPed. The only way we can group loading and unloading were discussed 
was assigned to certain definite ma-;8Uch ('Derations with any satisfaction also. The paper was concluded with 
hines for instance ho might be runls 10 ,)reilk up the large group into , a discussion of the new three wharf
alter. comolor, and pursonal diroe-. woro aowetl a certain nmom,t for
tor. Those head,, of departments remhlllos 1)elhg (lown, Tho rOHUlt
pori directly to the general manager :  (l0c,.,,,180,i 1)roliUctton from the
and have conimi el .ill of the activl-, (l,mi.tm0iu  ge.lenll troverties of the company. | botween the set-up men and theThe factory manager Is concerned ()p0nif()rH 
with equipment, processes, expensos, I 
xponses of operations, and personnoi 0u'' n,'080nt H-V8t0m consists in
organisation and is responsible for  l
having at all times tho equipment and 
f the schodProminent Men Think :SENI0RSLisr 0F 
Courses Too Narrow ECARNAGIQ ims UIIH
--------------- j Last week we published a list of
-r->  1 -d a -/- firms who either have openings orPoor Financial Returns Are I may Jiave openings in the near future.
We are continuing this list below, 
-under the various departments: 
Metallurgy.
?American Gas Association. 
?Bethlehem Steel Company.
??Colonial Supply Company. 
?Coatesvifle Boiler Works.
?Carnegie Steel Company. 
?Firth-Sterling Steel Company. 
??National Tube Company.
?Ohio Brass Company.
?Weirton Steel Company.
Mining.
??Gugenheim Brothers.
Physics.
?American Optical Company.
?Sperry Gyroscope Company. 
Printing.
??Arsenal Technical Schools. 
??Chatfield and Woods Company. 
??Gray Printing Company,
??Lanston Monotype Company.
??Ohio Association Retail Lumber 
Dealers.
??Reid Press Ltd.
??Semco Color Press.
??Wood Construction.
Teaching.
??Board of Education^ St. Louis. 
??Somerset Boro High School.
Works Management. 
??American Creosoting Company, 
Inc.
?American Mfg. Exp. Co.
?American Optical Company. 
??Bethlehem Steel Company. 
??Colonial Supply Company. 
?Coatesville Boiler Works. 
?Connersvllle Blower Company. 
?Carnegie Steel Company. 
?Firth-Sterling Steel Company. 
??Genfire Steel Company.
??Hope Engineering & . Supply Com
pany.
?Ideal Electric & Manufacturing 
Company.
??Industrial Brownhoist Company. 
?Island Creek Coal Company.
?W. N. Kratzer Company. 
??Kaufmanns.
??S. S. Kresge Company.
??Lukens Steel Company.
?C. C. Loder Power Plant Equip
ment.
??Mahr Manufacturing Company. 
??Minnesota Steel Company. 
?National Tube Company.
?National Cash Register Company. 
?Ohio Brass Company.
?Phoenix Portland Cement Com
pany.
?W. J. Rainey, Inc.
?Retail Delivery Association. 
??Seiberling Rubber Company. 
?Standard Plate Glass Company. 
?Texas Company.
?Weirton Steel Company.
??Western Clock Company.
?Willys-Morrow Company, Inc. 
??The Industrial Press.
Part Time.
??Bankers Com. Discount Corp. 
??The Holland Furnace Company. 
??Keeps Kleer Company, Inc. 
Reference.
?Bureau of Mines.
?U. S. Civil Service Commission. 
?War Department Air Corps. 
?American Mfg. Exp. Association.
In his paper, Mr. Fisher gave a very 
complete description of modern meth
ods of handling freight from steam
ship, 011 the land. In this discussion 
he included the different types of 
quite so well. In this class of work j wharves now in use and the advana number of operators are doing ex(tages and disadvantages of each. For 
actly the same operation. The time | larger wharves fill construction is 
required .is enough so there is 110 dif-, used in place of pile as a wharf set 
Acuity in keenine; count of the num-1011 niles wnnld ho n
tures they do not do as well as extemporary storage before they are
atovs lio handle a given number of
he capacity to take care of the soiledWimps IS or 20 machines.U]Q j The set-up man is paid a premium
The! production manager, working 1 a*0,1 with the operators 011 the total 
from the production schedule, is ve. j Production from that group of masponsiblo for our inventory and for c*1*uesthe group operating these 
seeing that the equipment is shipped 1 machlnus hits much trouble, tlio operwhen the customers want it. He has ; ators wil1 pitcl1 in and try to &ot as iomplete control of all materials and many machines running as possible, 
stocks until the final shipments are and temporarily one man may stoefe 
made to the customer. The pnrchasfive ()1 ^ machines instead of the 
ing is also under the production mun-!^llee machines which lie would norager in our organization, which 1 bej maI1-v operate.
lieve is a little unusual. I When day and night forces operate
Our bogey for inventory turnover | the same group of. machines, the day 
is 12. In other words, theaverage !a,ul tlle uiglit men are included in the 
annual sales should amount to 12 same group so there is 110 controversy 
times the average value of the raw | about who ran down the tools aiiu 
material; work in process, and finished I w*10 ground them and who spoiled the 
stock. That is many times better set-ups.
than it used to be under our old sysj The improvement made in our pro
tein of purchasing and production. j duction after this group system was 
The chief inspector in our organizasatisfactorily working in our autotion has somewhat heavier duties ; uiatic screw-macliine department was 
ban usual. He reports to the gen-; surprising. The operators all' made 
eral manager, rather than to the facj more money than they had ever made 
tory manager, and is responsible for 1 before, the capacity of the department, 
the quality of the incoming material, j was materially increased, the quality 
of the parts and of the finished pro; of the work was improved also and 
duct ln the plant. He is also responthere was 110 questioning about which 
sible for seeing that action is taken \ group made certain pieces on account
j three or four smaller groups, keeping j terminal, now in use and nearing 
track of the individual operators anil completion, at Port Astoria.
classifying them according to the1 -----------------------------
quantity of their production. I11 tills j RALSTON AND SEIBERT
way, the experienced operators are 1 EDITOR AND BUSINESS
not penalized by the low production MANAGER, OF TARTAN
of beginners. Even then these groups ---------
are not nearly so satisfactory as j (Continued From Page One)
groups of the first three classes dement of Architecture. He is a memscribed, and we group work of this her of the Alpha Sigma Phi social 
type only when it is part of a big pro-1 fraternity. Phil Hubbard, a Sophoduction set-up and practically all i more in the Department of Building 
other work is grouped. Then we , Construction, has been elected Senate 
group it from the point of view of the j Treasurer for the oncoming year, 
whole production rather than of the He won his letter in cross country 
efficiency of that particular operation. , and is a very active member of the 
One of the important things in the  Industries Sophomores. He is a memprogressive manufacture of inter-, her of the Druids, Sophomore hon(?? Denotes definite openings with 
companies).
? Denotes a possibility of an open
ing in the near future.)
TRUSTEES ESTABLISH NEW
SCHOLARSHIP AT CARNEGIE
changeable parts is to bave accurate 
time-studies 011 all operations. At 
present 99 per cent of tlie labor. in our
orary, and Kappa Sigma social fra
ternity. Henry R. Loxterman is 
Sophomore in the Department of Complants Is standardized. By that l mereiai Engineering. He has been 
mean that it is.paid fdr on a premium elected secretary of his class for next
basis according to the time studies. 
With such a complete standardiza
tion of the time of operations, it is 
possible for the factory manager to 
judge whether 01* not lie lias sufficient 
equipment and for the production 
manager to forecast properly the pro
duction requirements and to make 
promises of deliveries to the cus
tomer that will be fulfilled.
LAST NITE SCHOOL DANCE OF
YEAR TO BE HELD FRIDAY
The last inter-college dance for 
night students will be held in the 
Union on May 4, 1928, from 9 to 1 
p. m.
This dance is being sponsored by 
the Night Student Council. It is 
promised that this dance, being the 
last one of the season, will be the 
best one held this year. The music 
will be furnished by a good orches
year. He is a member of the Theta 
Tail honorary and Phi Kappa social 
fraternity. He has shown his merit 
for this job by acting temporarily as 
Advertising Manager of the Puppet. 
Gilcrest. is a Junior in the Civil En
gineering Department. He was elect
ed Science School Representative to 
the Student Council for next year. He 
is a member of the Sigma Nu fra
ternity, and is a member o,f the This
tle'Staff. With these men on next 
years staff there is 110 doubt that 
the Puppet will be a success next 
year.
tra, and the admission being only one 
on all complaints from our customers 1 of the group being paid only for good dollar per couple.
Harvard University.Although the 
Harvard Law School has an attend
ance of 1500, and has graduated 
14,000 lawyers since its founding in 
1817, an expansion program is being 
projected to adequately take care of 
its increasing enrollment and corps 
of research scholars. A fund of 
$5,000,000 is to be spent in buildings 
and endowment.
A new scholarship, to be called the 
John Alfred Brashear Scholarship 
and valued at $300, the tuition fee for 
a year, has been established at Car
negie Tech by the trustees of the 
school. The scholarship is offered as 
a tribute to John Alfred Brashear, 
whom the students of Carnegie knew 
as "Uncle John. This new scholar
ship will be awardable in the coming 
college year to a student in a high or 
preparatory school outside of Alle
gheny County.
The new scholarship comes in the 
same category as the thirty Found
ers Scholarships, each equal to tlie 
tuition fee, which are awarded to upperclass students, and the three Al
legheny County Scholarships, alijo 
valued at $300, which are offered eacTi 
year to Seniors in the Allegheny 
County schools. Carnegie Tech also 
offers fifty Pittsburgh Honor Schol
arships, each valued'-at $100, to meri
torious Seniors in Pittsburgh schools.
University of Washington.The av
erage amount spent by the college stu
dent is bout $75 per month, accord
ing to recent investigations made at 
the University of Washington. The 
expenses for men and women are the 
same.
CHUBBYAND A 1,001- NOVELBy FRANK REILLY
S NWELL-VOO KMovxi THo>E. j VOu T3UIFHYE,F IPB TPlE.\MlMOovx) FoP. CoTTImGI f
A *=.'lOe.MTS VwoRw. *M J I WE'S
HALF ? -------------------------' '-----ir

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 1, 192STHE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE THREb
SfS.BB*tonse
THE cost of crude fuel goes far beyond 
its original purchase price. Unloading, 
storage, ash removal, spoilage, insur
ance, tied-up capital  all represent extra 
costs you cant overlook.
When you use gas you eliminate these extra 
and sizable charges  out go the scavengers 
of waste and spoilage.
You have a fuel that affords you the most 
modernized type of fuel service. It is de
livered to your burners in any desived 
quantity instantlyits uniform quality and 
ease of control luing efficiency to your oper
ations and profit to your ledgers.
Get the facts about gas. Your local gas com
pany can tell you, or write to
American Gas Association
420 Lexington Avenue, New York City
TOU CAM BO ST BETER WITH GAS
HMiu
Printing News
Yesterday, Monday, April 30, a lec
ture was given in Room 104 Industries 
by E. W. Palmer, president of the 
Kingsport Press, on the subject of 
Bookbinding. Mr. Palmer is expfesident of the Employing Book
binders of America and at the pres
ent time is Chairman of the Educa
tional-Vocational Committee. He has 
been a promoter of vocational train
ing in bookbinding and is a wellknown figure in the printing world. 
Volume I of A course in Bookbind
ing for Vocational Training' which 
was published under Mr. Palmers su
pervision is one of the best text books 
tha't lias been added to bookbinding 
knowledge.
Professor Gustafson, head of the 
Printing Department of Carnegie, ad
dressed the Pittsburgh Advertising 
Clubs Direct-Mail group last March 
30, on the subject Training the Print
ing-House Executive. This address 
will be given again by Mr. Gustafson 
at the Scranton meeting of the Third 
District of the United Typothetae 
Federation, May 11-12.
Student Council Tables 
Campus Week Budgets
Committee Votes Only Seniors 
Eligible to Receive and 
Wear Jeweled Keys
The plant visited last week by the 
two groups of printing students were 
the plants of the Bankers Lithograph
ing Company, Carnegie.Institute Press, 
Standfast and Kroencke Company and 
the Pittsburgh Press.- Through the 
medium of these plant visits the mem
bers of the students groups get ideas 
of printing and the allied industries 
in Pittsburgh.
A number of the faculty and stu
dents of the Department of Printing 
have taken advantage' of the presence 
in Pittsburgh of a fine exhibit ar
ranged by the Strathmore Paper Com
pany of Massachusetts., This exhibit 
is being shown at Ailing and Cory 
Company, at River avenue and Alicos 
street, Pittsburgh, daily from April 23 
to May 4. The general public is in
vited to the exhibit.
The Student Council had quite a 
lengthy session last Tuesday even
ing, when a'number of Campus Week 
budgets were presented. Those, ap
proved by the Council were the Bur
lesque Committee Budget, the. New 
Events Committee budget, the Pub
licity Committee, the Vaudeville 
Show, the remainder of the Campus 
Week Show budget and the Corona
tion Committee. Mr. Brown, chair
man of Publications Budgets, pre
sented recommendations for next 
years Puppet and Tartan staffs, both 
of which were passed. Mr. Crandall, 
in behalf of the Chairman of Elec
tions and Eligibility, then read the 
tests of persons eligible to receive 
jeweled, gold and silver activity keys. 
This brought up the question of grant
ing jeweled keys to Juniors and it was 
finally voted unanimously that none 
but Seniors should be eligible to re
ceive and to wear jeweled keys. The 
presented lists were then accepted 
by the council.
Miss Roy reported that a formal 
dinner reception would be held by 
the Council for President Baker on 
Friday evening at Webster Hall. 
The Carnegie Quarterly came up for 
discussion when the quartely budget 
was presented and approved. The 
price of the magazine was also fixed 
at 25 cents per copy. . The Mens Glee 
Club requested permission to hold a 
banquet with the balance of their 
Student, Council appropriation, but 
the motion granting this request was 
lost for want of a second. Mr. Brown, 
business manager of the Campus 
Week show presented the list of com
plimentary tickets for the show and1 
it was approved.
Mustaches Now Only Masculine Bulwark
Impregnable to Feminine Onslaught
Tour Offers Courses Withbe taken by motor. The places to b 
visited are Versailles. FoiitainbleaiUCredit Toward BA Derei Chantilly, Amiens, Rouen and Cha*-^  teaux de Louvre.
j Courses will be given in English by~Poor, defenseless man! Helpless.; its degree of effectiveness, to be sure, i American students can now spend promhlent French professors. Themodern man; what weapon has he ; There is the embryo mustache which, j their junior year in France and secure ; complete course of study from whichi
against the invasions into his domain ; to be observed, must be inspected in ; courses which will be given credit by \ any sjx courses may i)e chosen are;'
by the weaker sex (weaker sex, inprofile, under a strong tight. This sort 1 most colleges toward a bachelor of; { France__geographical and hisdeed!)? They (the women, of course) |of mustache accounts for the strong; arts degree. | torical.
have appropriated mans figure(you j odor of vaseline or olive oil which 
ought to see them in bathing suits); I radiates from the male under observa 
they have appropriated mans wardJ tion. There is also the more highly 
robe which they wear with an air j developed mustache of the unruly or(Cliypre, Lilac, LOrigan, or tar soap); I der in which one hair makes a cross 
they have glorified the masculine hair j with another, other hairs curl up to 
cut, but not 011 the men; they have i the tip of the nose and exert themA minimum of tour yenrs of Frenali : n. Early gothic arcliitecture and
in liigh school or college is necessary. : sculpture in Franco.
Courses avallatole for American col> ni. Les primitifs.
lege juniors are limited to the general j 
fields of literature, economics, pliilosj 
ophy, history, and French. No courses ;
are available in natural science, cilenij
masculine emancipation. I11 a few 
A defiant gesture, but one which no | years man will be once again a free, 
woman (outside the circuses) can imi; long-bearded creatureif the women 
tate. This new masculine gesture has 1 dont object!
IV. French painting and sculptur
ing. 1,6th to ISth century.
V. French decorative art of today:.
VI. Interior decoration.
VIII. The Louvre museum collec
tions.
IX. French painting and sculptur
ing in 19tli century.
........... .. ,__.  , 1   ........ Certificates of the Department ofonto tilt vest fiont. and it l0 July wUtCh Includes twelve ; fine nrts of New york University will
alro accounts foi the e>ei-present halt Weeks in a summer ses|[tm of a French be Krnntert students who regularly 
brush and mirror to be round every | liniversUy, approximately $1,500. aU(fnd thc rom. ,.equil.e(] ,om4s. 
nil.1 el s pocket. This amount will cover the round trip The pnrtv K.,ils t,.ora New York.
Hus appeals to be the begmninj: qC | ocenn voyage, ralWoad transportation j,me 1Gi on the g. s, Veedam. and will
adopted masculine, customs, and now j selves to lcep the wearer in a constant [ istry, physics or biology that can be 
its the he-man who treads the homei itch, and still other hairs elongate, j successfully correlated with those of 
ward road in the early dawn; they j themselves over the lips to form a J the first two years of American colhave taken the mens jobs, and now 1 permanent cud. This type of mustache j lege curriculums.
papa stays at home and rocks the j accounts for the constant drip of warm The cost of tlle yenr*s study, from 
cradle.
Is it any wonder that the oppressed, 
brow-beaten male is at last revolting?
He has taken the only road to assert
ing himself, once more, that is open 
to him. He is growing a mustache!
CARNEGIE FACULTY TO 
MAKE INSPECTION TRIPS
Another of the interesting trips in I
the series of inspections of the public 
utilities of Pittsburgh and vicinity 
was taken Saturday, April 21, when
i in France, room and board, tuition. a7Tive back at New York, August 24. 
j fees and all other necessary expenses | on tiie g. S. New Amsterdam. The 
I except clothing. total cost is $475 including tuition
I The course offers a multitude of adand choice of four courses, t.ransatvantages in that the student becomes j lantic passage in a student cabin,' acthbrbughly acquainted with the French | commodations and meals, 
language and customs. The course i Complete information and itinerary 
i has been recommended as an excelmay be secured by communicating 
lent preparation for teaching French with the Paris Summer School, depart-- 
At the regular meeting of the Avi-1 or for filling a. government position. \ ment of fine arts, New York Uhiveration Club last Tuesday, Mr. Han-) a limited number of scholarships sity, Washington Square East, New
Air Pockets
Over two hundred students from the 
Ralston Industrial School visited the 
College of Industries, last Monday, 
April 23. This school gives instruc
tion in several trades one of which is 
printing. The printing students from' 
the Ralston School were very inter
ested in the Printing Departments ex
hibit.
WOMEN'S CLUB LUNCHEON
WEDNESDAY, MAY SECOND
CHESTERFIELD AGENT TO
VISIT FRATERNITY HOUSES
Norman Taylor, a representative of 
the Liggett and Myers Tobacco Com
pany will visit all the dormitories and 
fraternity houses during the first two 
weeks of May. Mr. Taylor is inter
ested in advertising Chesterfield 
cigarettes and Granger Rough Cut 
pipe tobacco. He plans to interview 
all Carnegie students who smoke 
cigarettes or pipes so as to introduce 
the Liggett and Myers products to 
them. The original oil painting of the 
famous Chesterfield advertisement 
Blow Some My Way by McClelland 
Barclay will be on exhibition in the 
Department of Painting and Decorat
ing in Arts School. Mr. Taylor plans 
to interview Carnegie students the 
first two week's of every month in the 
school term.
The Womens Club of C. I. T. will j have a luncheon May 2, in the Facul
ty Club Room, at one oclock. Since 
this Avill be the last meeting of the 
; year, Mrs.' Harold Land, the new 
president, will announce the comj mittees.
| Mrs. Thomas Mylrea has charge 
j of the program which is to be given 
by the newcomers group. The .pro* 
! gram is as follows: Instrumental
I numbers by Mrs. M. L. Carroll, Jr., 
the accompanist for the afternoon; a 
I violin selection by Mrs. S. Roscoe 
i Smith; a duet by Mrs. V. O. O'Brien 
j and Mrs. Thomas Mylrea; a group of 
I vocal solos by Mrs. Howard W. RusLsel. *
cock, head mechanic at Rodgers 
Field, spoke on "Safety Factors in 
Aircraft. The meeting was well at? 
twenty faculty members of Carnegie | tended and the talk proved very inTech, together with a group of profesI structive as well as interesting,
sors from Pitt, were the guests of I The club has tentatively arranged
the South Pittsburgh Water Company. ! an army air squadron from Rodg^
The tour was preceded by*a luncheon j ers Field to fly in army formation j jia(j jjy communication with the
at the Knights of Columbus Club over the campus during President j institute of International Education, 2
House, Fifth and Bellefield avenues. | Bakers review of the R. O. T. C. j ^\rest 45tli street, New York.
After the luncheon, the party was A trip . to Bettis Field is planned j rpj1Q pnris Art School summer
conducted personally by C. E. Trow\ for next Sunday at. 2 p. m. Details courses which are conducted by the
bridge, chemist and bacteriologist-for may be obtained from IT. Wilcoff, i department of fine arts of New York
president of the Aviation Club.
for $300 have been established for the t York.
purpose of aiding some highly recomI-------
mended students who cannot afford 
to pay their full expenses. These 
scholarships are awarded only to mem
bers of the organized group.
Further particular information may
Princeton.  William A. Roper, 
Princeton football coach, condemns 
the belief that better athletic groups 
emanate from the imperious East than 
the rustic West.
DEAN TARBELL AND
MISS HELM ENTERTAIN
DORM COUNCIL
The membersof the Dormitory 
Council and the officers of the Halls 
on the Dormitory Campus were in
vited by Dean Tarbell and Miss Helm 
to a dinner last Tuesday-evening in 
the Carnegie Inn. It; was attended 
by th majority of the 23 officers. 
The dinner was followed by a friendly 
discussion of the dormitory problems 
and interests. It proved altogether 
so enjoyable that a majority vote was 
carried to get together in the same 
friendly way semi-annually. The 
Carnegie Inn outdid itself in provid
ing a good dinner and artistic table 
decorations.
American Water Works and Electric 
Company, New York, of which the 
South Pittsburgh Water Company is 
a branch plant; E. L. Kune, commer
cial agent of the South Pittsburgh
Water Company; C. J. Eld, superinI Eastern colleges except Columbia Unitendent, and F. W. Bousin, chief | ersity, a Chinese professor is to give 
chemist of the company. The filtra* j a course in Oriental history. Shuming 
tion plant and the pumping station | t Lin, who is at present connected 
were viewed by the party and the inwjth Harvard, will give a course next, 
formation secured will be of special semester dealing with tho history of
value to the members of the faculty the Far East in the nineteenth and
in teaching ,civic or public utility twentieth centuries, with special einproblems and to those interested in | pb:isis on China and Japan.
water supply and sanitary engineer......... ........... .......... "  -----
ing. The trip was concluded by a -womens scholarship association combus ride over a large part of the dis! nlittee.
trict served by. the South Pittsburgh j ,, Ann McKee is a sophomore in M. M.,
University, are at the Palace of the
------------------------- | Louvre.
Wellesley College.For the first j The complete course includes six 
time in the history of Wellesley and, university lecture tours which will 
for that matter, of any of the large
STUDENT
SUPPLIES
0. M. STFT
3806 FORBES STREET 
OAKLAND
Water' Company.
Two more of the series of faculty 
inspection trips being conducted by 
the Philadelphia Company remain on 
the schedule. On May 12, a party 
will be conducted through the plant 
of the Pennsylvania Water Company, 
and on May 19, a tour through the 
Charleroi sub-station of tile West. 
Penn Power Company is to be made.' 
Faculty members of Carnegie Tech 
are advised to remember these dates I 
and keep them open.
Y. W. C. A., W. A. A., GUILD, ELECT 
OFFICIALS FOiR NEXT YEAR
on the Y. W. cabinet, a member of 
the womens scholarship association 
committee and on the tri-publications 
staff.
DIFFERENCE
When yon rent a tuxedo suit from us you 
rent tlie best.
Quality, Fit and Style. All sizes.
Special rates to students
WHITTINGTON DRESS SUIT CO.
6002-3-4 JENKINS ARCADE 
Day Phone Atlantic 9595 Night Phone Lafayette 4791-R
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques CHOSEFI of Dancing
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS 
In the Heart of Tech and Pitt
Beginners Monday and Friday! 
I Evenings. Advanced, Thursday and | j Saturday Evenings. Private lessons g 
] by appointment.
Mayflower 7891
Character Building
is one of the fundamentals of the Boy Scout 
movement.
Why not avail yourself of this tested and 
helpful means toward a successful career.

Start now to save a definite amount from 
your income and deposit it regularly in 
Oaklands strong financial institution, thus 
forming a connection which will prove of 
inestimable benefit for all the years to 
come.
CHOSHEF IHRNEXT Y A-UTL MVa
The Oakland Bank
Where Forbes Crosses Meyran
Elections for officers of the womens 
organizations, held last Friday, resuited as follows:
Y. W. C. A.President, Jeannette | 
Folmar; first vice president, Miriam 1 
Cupps; second vice president, Barbara 
Ren wick; secretary, Isobel Sheppard; j 
treasurer, Florence Bright.
W. A. A.President, Dorothy Roy; ' 
vice president, Gladys Connor; secre-, 
tary-treasurer, Pat Montgomery.
Guild  President, Evelyn Golden-1 
son; vice president, Ruth Bramson; i 
secretary. Rosemary Barr; treasurer,
Anne McKee.
Of the Y. W. C. A. officers, Jean
nette Folmar, the newly elected pres-1 
ident, is president of the Tri Gamma t 
social sorority, a member of the Grfild 1 
board, and a junior P. & D. Miriam 
Cupps, vice president, is the retiring ! 
president of the Girls Glee Club, newi 
ly elected vice president of the junior j 
class, a member of Teknon Club, and __
a library student. Barbary Ren wick, 1 * 
secretary, is a M. M. library student,' 
a member of the junior prom commit
tee, and a; member of Teknon. Isobel j 
Sheppard, secretary, is a home eco| 
nomics students, president of String
ers, social chairman of the sophomore 1 
class, a member of Teclinon, and a rej 
cently elected class senate representa-' 
tive. Florence Bright, treasurer, is a i 
junior P. and D., a member of the |
W. A. A. board, Technon member and ( 
a member of Beta Pi sorority.
Of the newly elected W. A .A. offi 
cers, Dorothy Roy, president, is a M.
M. social work student, a junior ed
itor of Tartan, manager of the Girls
Glee Club, a member of Guild board, 
a staff memier of Tri-publications, and 
a member of Alpha Chi Alpha.
Gladys Conner is a member of M. M. 
library course^ of Alpha Chi Alpha, an 
associate editor of Thistle; she is al
lied with the dorm council and is a 
member of the Y. W. cabinet.
Pat Montgomery is a sophomore. 
Margaret Morrison, a student in the 
English minor course.
Evelyn Goldenson, president for the 
unsuing Guild year, is a junior social 
work student, a member of W. A. A. 
board, and the treasurer of the Social 
Workers Club.
Ruth Bramson, junior in Margaret 
Morriso'n, is a student in the English 
minor course, a member of the Tartan ^ / 
staff and a member of Alpha Chi 
Alpha. * A
Rosemary Barr, a sophomore in the 
household economics department, is a 
Tartan reporter, and a member of the
I

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE FOURTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, MAY 1, 1928
CLOTHES
Ready-made 
And Cut to Order
ESTABLISHED ENGLISH UNIVERSITY 
STYLES, TAILORED OVER YOUTHFUL 
CHARTS SOLELY FOR DISTINGUISHED 
SERVICE IN THE UNITED STATES.
Suits *40, *45, *50 Topcoat
BY SPECIAL APPOINTMENT 
OUR STORE IS THE
SUPY ENGINEERING 2w @a Colocad)
Scene Alonfl Auto Hisiuudy to Mine ('amp, 20 Mil from College Canifnu .it Gold
EngEtneerflssg Summer ScSsooS off the
Elocky Mourafcaiaa Region*
Basic engineering courses in Mathematics, Chemistry, Physics, English 
and Design. Also courses in Assaying, Geology, Analytical Mechanics. Graphic Statics, Strength of Materials and Surveying. Preparatory 
Subjects of Chemistry, Physics, Advanced Algebra and Solid Geometry 
offered 'for students deficient in entrance requirements.
July 2 to August 25 1928
This Summer Session is given especially for students who wish to make up work or to secure additional credits. All work is conducted by 
the regular Faculty of the School of Mines. For catalog of the Summer 
Session, write to the Registrar, Box Z-2.
Colorado School of Mines Goiden, Colorado
Release Thistle For 
Distribution May 15
Final Opportunity Given to 
Obtain Thistle; Close 
Sales Friday
The Thistle will be ready for dis
tribution on or near May 15. The pos
sibility of this early date has been 
made possible by the great coopera
tion on the Thistle Staff in organizing, 
planning, obtaining of material such 
as write-ups and photography, and all 
essentials for its realization. The! 
first 'issuo of this book will be a proof 
of its standard and will help satisfy 
tho curiosity which has been aroused 
around the campus. It may be of in-, 
torest to all Carnegie students and j 
alumni that this book has been class
ed as one of the best year books in 
collegiate circles. The greatest feature 
of the book is the originality and 
color effect that is found throughout.
Starting from the cover, which lias 
an exceedinly dark blue color, one | 
finds at. the opening an olive green 
silhouette of a campus scene. The 
first main section is one of amazing 
beauty. It contains series of campus 
scenes reproduced from oil paintings 
in their exact colors. This section is 
being placed in the Thistle at a cost 
of one thousand dollars. Throughout 
one finds a three-color effect on all 
the main section title pages, and a 
two-color effect on all the subtilte 
pages. Every page will have a sil
houette band across the top. One 
marked feature of this years book is 
the omission of the customary, or socalled traditional thistles and Scotch
men that have always been in the 
former Carnegie year books. No one 
can really visualize the beauty of this 
book, and give it full justice in their 
comment or conversations concern
ing it unless they have actually seen 
the book.
The sales staff realizes that many 
students have not given their order 
for this years Thistle, as yet, and is 
to continue the sales campaign until 
Friday. This is the last opportunity 
offered to the student body and others 
concerned who have as yet not ob
tained their order to do sol Salesmen 
will be stationed in ail the corri
dors of the. respective build
ings salesmen to whom an order' for 
the book may be given. The only ad
vice the Thistle staff gives is to sub
scribe for your copy before it is too 
late to get one. There will be a lim
ited number printed and no addition
al for late orders. Avoid being dis
appointed arid get your order now.
ANNUAL BOAT RIDE FOR 
R.O.T.C. STUDENTS TO BE 
HELD SATURDAY, MAY 12
New Dead Mans Island Dam to be 
Visited on Trip Given by 
U. S. Engineer
PRINTING CONFERENCE 
AT CARNEGIE JUNE 25-27
Following on the heels of the Pres
ident's Review Campus Week, comes 
the annual boat ride down the river, 
which occurs on Saturday, May 12. 
The United States Engineer stationed 
in Pittsburgh in charge of river and 
harbor work, has made arrangements 
to conduct a boat trip down the Ohio 
river on that date. This is an annual 
affair arranged for the pleasure and 
benefit of the R. O. T. C. students.
The party will visit the various 
United States locks along the Ohio 
and especially the new dam under 
construction at Dead Mans Island. 
The exact hour and place of starting 
will be announced at a later date, but 
the party will very likely leave the 
wharf at about 9:00 a. m., and return 
to the starting point about 4:00 or 
5:00 p. m. Lunch will be served on 
the boat, for which each sutdent at
tending will be assessed fifty cents. 
However, the trip will entail no other 
expenses, except car fare to and from 
the starting point. The workings of 
all the dams passed on the day down 
the river will be explained to the stu
dents and there will be ample time to 
view the machinery. The trip is in
structive as well as enjoyable as is 
evidenced by the fact that many men 
are not satisfied with making one trip, 
but always come back for more the 
following year. The boat used is one 
of the government boats in service on 
the river.
Any students who have not al
ready signed up for this trip and 
wish to do so should leave their 
names with Miss Thomas in the Mili
tary Department or give them to one 
of their instructors in class. Students 
submitting their names should be sure 
to attend. This is only a matter of 
courtesy, since the United States En
gineer goes to a considerable amount 
of trouble to arrange this trip, and 
accommodations as to space and for 
lunch necessitate an accurate esti
mate of attendance.
Jageman And Spickert
Design Carnegie Shirt
At last come some distinctive Car
negie clothes, other than those de
signed for plebes. Mri Miller of Jage
man and Spickert has planned a shirt 
made especially for Carnegie stu
dents in a green oxford weave with an 
extra wide collar and band. The Stu
dent Council has accepted the shirt 
as official and they are already on 
sale at the Jageman and Spickerts 
East Liberty store.
The seniors have planned all year 
to have a distinguishing blazer or 
coat, and this, too, is about to ma
terialize. The coat will be of blue 
cloth, two or three button models, as 
the student prefers, patch pockets and 
plaid lapels. A sample is being shown 
at Skibo Inn, and orders will be taken 
there now. The coat is quite indi
vidual, not so common as the cap and 
gown of the Oxford senior.
M. M. C. C. JUNIOR BASKETBALL 
TEAM CELEBRATES VICTORY
Alpha Tau Fraternity 
Elects Officers For 28-29
The junior basketball team of M. 
M. C. C., who have won the champion
ship for three successive years, Cele
brated their victory at a championship 
party held last week when all of the 
team went to see the Penn State 
tliespians play Honestly Yours. This 
team deserves much credit because 
they have carried the championship 
from their freshman year until this 
year and now are the proud holders 
of the basketball championship. Al
though they have been so victorious, 
they are not entitled to the silver cup 
because it was not until last year 
that the cup was offered L team' 
winning the championship for three 
successive years. In sight of this fact 
the present junior class will have to 
win the basketball championship next 
year in order to win the
Alpha Tau, industries honorary fra
ternity, elected the following officers 
for the year 28-2.9: President, Gor
don V. Durr; secretary, Frank P. 
Thomas; corresponding secretary, 
Chester Weatherell; treasurer, Carl 
Kumpf. The position of vice presi
dent is an honorary position and is 
held by Professor R. B. Leighou.
Gordon, Durr, a junior in the De
partment of Printing, is a member of 
Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity. He is a 
member of the swimming team and 
served on this years Gambol of the 
Guilds Committee and the Campus 
Week New Events Committee. Carl 
Kumpf, a junior in the Department of 
Printing, is a member of Delta Mu 
Fraternity. He is assistant manager 
of the band, and a member of Phi Mu 
Alpha Symphonia. Chester Weather
ell, a junior in Building Construction, 
is a member of the rifle team. Frank 
P. Thomas is a junior in the Building 
Construction Department.
The new officers will take their po
sitions at the time of the initiation 
of Dewitt Hooper, which will be held 
the first Monday after Campus Week.
University of Wisconsin.The Philomtaha literary society of the Uni
versity of Wisconsin, founded 45 years 
ago, and one of the oldest on the Wis
consin campus, has been pronounced 
officially dead, killed in the prime of 
its life by "co-eds, dances, and rent-acars. The last rites were held at 
the funeral banquet, the funds for 
which were just covered by the 
treasury.
Amherst College.At a recent poll 
at Amherst College, an overwhelming 
majority voted for the retention of 
the honor system.
BETTER HOMES PROGRAM
INTERESTS C. I. T. STUDENTS
The Seventh Annual Conference on 
Printing Education is going to be held 
at. the Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology on .lune 25, 26 and 27. Leaders 
of vocational education in the city 
agree that this eopferonce is the most 
important; meeting dealing with the 
problems of printing, ever held in 
Pittsburgh. Advance notices indicate 
that, about one hundred and fifty print
ing teachers from this section of the 
country will attend. It is hoped that 
a considerable number of the teachers 
attending the conference will remain 
for the summer course In printing, of
fered for the first time by the Car
negie Institute of Technology in co
operation with the University of Pitts
burgh.
The tentative program was arranged 
by Mr. Fred J. Hartman, Director of 
the Department of Education of the 
United Typothetae of America, it in
cludes addresses from a large propor
tion of the outstanding leaders in 
printing education, as well as promi
nent men in the printing and vocation
al education. The Monday session 
will include talks on "If I were a 
teacher of printing from the standpoint of a business man, an engineer, 
a specialist in industrial education, and 
a public, school administrater, and dis
cussions regarding the training of 
craftsmen. The Tuesday session will 
take up the sharing and disbursement 
of knowledge regarding printing and 
the relations between business and 
education. On Wednesday, the clos
ing day of the three day conference, 
major educational problems and the 
printing curriculum will be taken up 
and discussed.
Better Homes Week was celebrated 
in Pittsburgh last week by a series of 
lectures at Utility Hall to which the 
teachers in the Household Economics 
and Costume Economics Departments 
were invited. The faculty members 
of the departments took groups of 
their students to hear these lectures 
which wera given by nationally 
known home economists.
On Monday, April 23, Mrs. John M. 
Phillips, charman of the American 
Home Federation of Pennsylvania 
Women, talked about "Better Homes 
for Greater Pittsburgh. On'the same 
day Miss Elsie Hinckley, Director of 
Home Service at;, the Tappan Manu
facturing Company lectured about 
"New Desserts from Old Recipes. 
The following day Miss Mary Webber 
of the N. E. L. A. Park School of 
Lighting, and Miss Ida Maglearis, edi
tor of the Household Magazine, dis
cussed modern Ideas about lighting in 
homes. Wednesday recipes for Tea 
Table Dainties and Healthful Sweets 
were given by Miss Marjorie Heseltine, Director of Food Research at 
Hill Brothers Company. Frank F. 
Forshee, Designing Engineer at 
West.inghouse Electric and Manu
facturing Company told the audience 
about electrical appliances and cook
ing by electricity on Thursday. The 
concluding lectures of the series, on 
Friday, were given by Mrs. Eleanor 
Clayton of Colgate and Company, who 
spoke on the Care of Fine Fabrics, 
and by Mr. R. C. Brown, of the Glidden Company whose talk was entitled 
Color in the Home.
h our Home Bank
FIFTH AND OAKLAND PITTSBURGH
E. K. Mellon, President 
W. S. Phillips, Cashier 
Thomas Ii. McCandless, Assistant Cashier
Capital, $300,000.00Surplus, $300,000.00
THE NEW CARNEGIE QUARTERLY
TO MAKE DEBUT MAY 10
(Continued From Pace One) i 
only are there features in it that will 
attract all types of minds and satisfy 
all sorts of interest, but the contribu
tions have been soicited from ail four 
colleges and from all departments in 
the colleges. The staff, headed by 
Walter Rogers, has an associate edi
tor from each of the four schools. 
Margaret Russoll represents Margaret 
Morrison; Harold Jacobson, the Arts 
College; H. L. Bunker, Jr., the Col
lege of Engineering; and Elmer Normandeau, tho College of Industries.! 
The faculty too is supporting the mag
azines, both by contributing and by 
lending their assistance in editing the 
material submitted. Mr, Weaver,-Mr. 
Blair and Mr. Long, all faculty mem
bers of the English department, aro 
giving invaluable service as faculty 
advisors. To insure complete cosmo
politanism in publishing the magaziije, 
calls for the assistance of any student 
j interested in the new publication were 
I issued, and the response of the follow
ipg fulfilled the desire of the staff to 
have all four schools effectively and 
fully represented: Josephine Clark, 
Florence McLaughlin, Sara E. Wond
ers, Lee Mitchell, Robert Bruce. Ruth 
Bramson. Alex Fisher, and Catherine 
Boyd, who have all given time and 
thought in their endeavor to make the 
magazine come up to the high stand
ard expected of a Carnegie publica
tion.
The staff sincerely believes that it 
has done everything possible to as
sure Carnegie students of a truly liter
ary magazine. The members have 
considered carefully and from all an
gles, each story, essay, and article to 
be published; they have excluded 
everything but the very best of the 
material submitted. They feel now 
that the destiny of the magazine is 
entirely in the hands of the student 
body as a whole. Their support, finan
cial, vocal, and mental, is essential if 
Carnegie is to have permanently what 
it has at various periods attempted. 
Unless the Carnegie Quarterly is to 
meet, with tho failure that finally over
came both the Shilling and the Tech
nical Journal, Carnegie students must 
write for the magazine, must buy the 
magazine, and give It their whole
hearted support.
University of California.For the 
purpose of establishing a professor
ship of philosophy, a trust fund of 
$120,000 has been tendered to the Uni
versity of California at Los Angeles 
by Mr. and Mrs. C. M. Fling of Los 
Angeles.
OF PITTSBURGH
The character of the suits and 
topcoats tailored by Charter House 
will earn your most sincere liking.
AGEMAN & SPICKER H
The Mens Store of East Liberty 
6121 PENN AVENUE
A student tour to Perugia is being 
offered to American students Inter
ested in Italian culture, art, and his
tory. Perugia, where the Royal 
Italian University is located, is 1,700 
feet above sea level. It is noted for 
its climate, and for its mystic art 
treasurers.
This tour will Include the months 
of July, August, and September, dur
ing which time the tourists will pur
sue a scholastic curriculum. Courses 
in advanced culture, including poli
tics, history literature ,and art will 
be most, appealing to American stu
dents. Complete courses in the Ital
ian language will be delivered in 
English. The remaining courses 
which are offered are: Italian Liter
ature, Political History, and History 
of Art. At the end of each course 
examinations are held and certificates 
given for regular attendance. For 
proficiency in tho Italian languago 
diplomas are awarded qualifying the 
student to teacli Italian abroad.
Excursions to neighboring cities of 
interest will be taken by the group. 
Froe entrance to galleries, museums, 
and libraries are offered in the tour 
cost. For the person who takes ad
vantage of this tour special railroad 
rates have been planned and special 
terms are offered for board and lodg
ing. The full pension in families is 
25 lire per day, and in a hotel froiri 25 
to 55 lire per day.
Dr. I. Langmuir Of General 
Electric To Speak May 1,2
A series of three lectures on 
-Electrical Discharges in Gases at 
Low Pressures are to be given at 
Carnegie Tech by Dr. Irving Langmuir, assistant director of research of i 
the General Electric Company, Sche
nectady, New York; the lectures, 
which are the free to the public and 
which Carnegie students are urged to 
attend, will be delivered at 8:30 this 
evening and tomorrow evening in the 
Carnegie Union.
Dr. Langmuir, internationally known 
for his research discoveries in applied 
chemistry, was recently awarded the 
Perkin Modal for his achievements in 
applied chemistry. He has also re-' 
oelvod the Nicholas Medal from tho 
New York Section of the American 
Chemical Society for researches on 
chemical reactions at. low pressure, ln 
1915; the Hughes Modal from the 
Royal Society of London for research 
in molecular physics in 1910; the 
Nichols Modal for researches on 
atomic structures, in 1920; the Rumflord Modal of tho American Academy 
fo Aits and Sciences for researches 
on thermlrionic phenomena, In 1920; 
and tho Cannozzaro Prize of the Royal 
Academy of Sineor, Romo, in 1925.
During his association with tho 
General Electric Company lie has 
boon engaged In tho development; of 
gjtH 11 Hod tungston lamps, electron 
discharge apparatus, condensation 
high vacuum pumps and ot.hor mat
ters of scientific and practical im
portance.
Campus Week Puppetnot only 
will It be a sensation due to its 
superior quality including all the dirt, 
up to the minute and otherwise, be
fitting the occasion, but it is a test 
of the abilities of next years staff 
which has just been appointed. This 
test was passed and by good hard Car
negie grading deserves an "A. If any 
doubt remains anywiiero as to the 
merit of this grading, get a copy by 
borrowing, buying, or othorwlse and 
find out Just for yourself. The Cam
pus Week Puppet,. will make its debut 
today.
The cover which always gives a 
great hint as to what may be expect
ed has a typical Campus Week atmos
phere, Jimmie Graham, the designer 
of this issue, has proven his merit in 
former issues of the Puppet and has 
also obtained laurels outside of school 
circles. In the recent illustration con
test held by the College Humor he 
won first prize against a very compe
tent field. From this data one can 
very well make assumptions as to 
what to expect In the way of the Pup
pet cover.
This issue will have all the campus 
week dirt in a burlesque and very 
humorous way. The new staff has 
supervised the publication with the 
assistance of the old staff. Former 
issues of Campus Week Puppets have 
always proven their merit but from 
indications tills one proves that it ex
cels all othersdoubt it? Well, find 
out for yourself.
Sixteen Glee Club Girls 
To Sing At Banquet May 2
Tonight at the Fort Pitt Hotel six
teen members of the Girls Glee Club 
will sing at a banquet held by the 
Triangle Photographers Association 
as part of their all-day session. The 
program for the whole meeting is be
ing presented entirely by women 
which is something of an innovation 
in photographic circles. The Car
negie Women will be entertained at 
dinner by the Association after which 
the Glee Club representatives will 
provide the dinner program. The 
girls will make several group appear
ances presenting some of their most 
successful numbers. Laura Bisell, 
Clee Club pianist, will go witli the 
girls. Katherine Riekort, a Junior in 
the iVIusic department lias been se
cured to give several violin selections 
and Mary Farbaugli, Margaret Morri
son Sophomore will entertain with a 
group of readings. Alfred Johnston, 
directors of the Girls Glee Club has 
chosen the following girls to sing at. 
the dinner tonight: Miriam Cupps, 
Dorothy Roy, Helen Bright, Mary Farbaugh, Mary Bello Rankin, Grace 
Capok, Dorothy Cullen, Mary Crago, 
Melon Rood, Mary Stewart, Lois 
Shultz, Ilplen Ward, Ella Mary Pat
ton, TTolon Elm I, Helen Weber and 
Margarot Kunlcle. Thoso girls are 
requested to bo in Margarot Morrison 
Assembly Hall today at 11:30 for 
final rehearsal.
ALL MAKES OF TYPEWRITERS, NEW AND USED 
SOLDRENTEDREPAIRED
FORT PITT TYPEWRITER CO., Inc.
Roynl Portable DlotrlbutorsCOURT 1100 
Store No. 1 Store No. 2
428 FOURTH AVENUE SIXTH AND WOOD STREETS
Summer Tour And Course 
In Italy Open To Students
NEW PUPPET STAFF EDITS 
CAMPUS WEEK NUMBER
THE BROOKFIELD HAT 
$5.00
The new  shadowweight  felt is the ideal hat for 
students. Made with narrow band in pearl and light 
tan.
AUFHAMMER and EVANS
6100 PENN AVENUE Established 1872

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 1, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE FIVE
dinner in honor of the seniors. The 
sheer good fellowship and humor ex
isting at these banquets will be a 
revelation to those attending for the 
first time.
The question of letting dormitory 
men attend the migratory dance in 
the fraternity houses was brought up 
and on the written recommendation 
of fourteen fraternity presidents the 
action of last week, by which they had 
been prohibited was rescinded. Tick
ets, however, will be necessary for the 
occasion.
A complaint was made about the 
removal of name plate from the Girls 
Dormitories. The fraternities do not 
favor any such action and the council 
goes on record at this meeting as be
ing absolutely opposed to any initia
tion pranks or other action which af
fect the property of other people. 
There was discussion at this time 
on the possibility of setting a period 
after spring re-axams in which time 
all fraternities will hold initiations. 
The administration is in favor of such 
a plan and promises to co-operate with 
it. It was moved and passed that a 
committee be appointed to work with 
Dean Tarbell and' that the social 
chairman of the Student Council se
lect an initiating period.
The council goes on record as fa
voring a yearly award for the Sweep
stakes, including last years race. It
i was the general opinion that if 
Alpha Tau did not wish to do this, 
some organization should be found to 
present a yearly cup.
Nominations for next year's coun
cil was opened at this meeting and. 
will remain open until the next meet
ing, Saturday, May 12, at which time 
the election will be held. The nom
inations are as follows: President,
Sid Smith, Tom Pratt, J/oe Schmid; 
secretary, R. Buckley, L. Fahnesstock, Joe Herbst, W. Carson, A. Cidells; for vice president there were 
! no nominations.
CHOOSE OFFICERS
FOR NEXT YEAR IN
ANNUAL ELECTIONS
MUSIC CRITICISM
Continued From Page One.) 
secretary, Redding; treasurer, Dodge; 
senate representative, Boyle.
In Art College the seniors elected to 
office are: President, Barr; vice pres
ident, Florence Bright; secretary, 
Jeannette Folmar; treasurer, Abe 
Neff; senate representatives, Cannon, 
Alice Harding.
The junior officers are: Owens, pres
ident; Olive Richey, vice president; 
Peg Minor, secretary; treasurer, Deverell; senate representatives, Shaffer, 
Helen Tuttle.
The sophomore election results 
were: President, Flannigan; vice pres
ident, Mildred Core; secretary, Flor
ence Matter; treasurer, Snyder; sen
ate representatives, Ritchey and Betty 
Newell.
The elections for the officers of the 
Arts Senate were: Presidentj Hitch
cock; vice president, Irene Tedrow; 
secretary, Warner, and athletic repre
sentative, Harpster.
In Margaret Morrison, the senior 
class nominees are: President, Fran
ces Guy and Annabelle Turner; senate 
representative, Florence Jenny and 
Mary Eclcles; social chairman, Doro
thy Mill, Barbara Renwick and' Sally 
Jolly. Miriam Cupps was elected vice 
president; Helen Bright, secretary; 
Helen Booth, treasurer.
CATERING
DEPENDABLE FOR CLASS
----and----
FRATERNITY AFFAIRS
Service that, is distinctively 
appropriate. Complete Menu if desired or merely Cakes, Ice Cream and Pastry. Estimates 
on request.
STORE SERVICE 
CakesPastriesIce Creams 
IcenBread and Candles ideally 
made and sold at reasonable 
prices. Phone ordersno charge 
for oity delivery.
Table and Fountain 
Luncheon Service.
Store hours: 8 A.M. to 11:30 P.M.
A Course in Kamiling Money
The formation of a banking 
connection early In life is an 
indispensable part of your 
education.
The experience in handling 
money, the friendly advice of 
specialists trained to. meet 
every type of financial prob
lem, will enable you to make 
the most of your allowance 
now, and will eventually help 
you to success in whatever 
line of work you may follow.
yiveccmemeoCATERERS
Tech Shoe RepairOhio Wesleyan.Eating is the col
lege students worst vice as far as his 
health is concerned, according to the 
university physician at Ohio Wes
leyan.
4523 FORBES STREET 
Near Craig
BEGINNING MONDAY, APRIL 30th 
THE KAUFMANN PLAYERS 
will present
THE RED WITOW
AT SYRIA MOSQUE
A rollicking, frollickiug musical show.
Peppy pony chorus! Beautiful show girls!
Tuneful music!
An evening' of humorous entertainment. 
Under the direction of Prank W. Shea.
For the Kaufmann Employes Beneficial and 
Protective Association.
Tickets 50c to $2.50 
Procurable at Travel Bureau, Fifth Avenue Balcony 
KAUFMANN  S
HOW MUCH WILL YOU EARN 
THIS SUMMER
Now is the time to get lined up for the work 
that you plan to do during vacation. A nationally 
known organization whose summer workers aver
aged $56.40 per 48-hour week last year is now offer
ing
A Minimum Guaranteed Income of $400.00
During TMs Summer Vacation
for men who can meet their requirements. A few 
men have made as high as $2,500.00 in this work in a 
single summer. Thirty thousand men have paid all. 
or part of their educational expenses through this 
work over a period of twenty-five years. A postal 
addressed to
YEARS ago, P. A. showed a clean pair of heels 
to the field of smoking-tobaccos. It has main
tained its lead ever since putting more distance 
behind it every year. There must be a reason 
why P. A. is the worlds largest-selling brand.
There is! Open a tidy red tin and get a full 
breath of that class-by-itself fragrance. Then 
tamp i load into the bowl of your pipe and 
light up. The first pull tells you why more men 
smoke P. A. than any other brand. Cool and 
smooth and mellow and mildnot for one 
pipe-load, but always. Try this long-burning 
tobacco, Fellows. Youll say so!G. F. Reynoldsif you vibrate to 
quality, youll gravi
tate to P, A.
604 Chamber oE Commerce Building 
PITTSBURGH, PA.
wall bring you the necessary information about this 
pleasant and profitable vacation employment.
University of Utah.  When the 
Utoniam, journalistic organ of the' 
University of Utah, began conducting 
a college beauty contest the dean o 
women summarily put her foot on the 
campaign for female pulchritude and 
substituted the suggestion that the 
staff grow trees and beautify the cam
pus that way.
smoke!the national
1928, R. J. Reynold* Tobacco Company, Winston-Salem, N. C.
Cooper '28-29 A.I.E.E. 
Chairman Annual Banquet 
Will Be Held On May 9
The results of the A. I. E. E. elec
tion of officers for 1928-29 were as 
follows: G. M. Cooper, chairman;
M. J. Seibold, sub-cliairmau: J. H.
Ferrick, secretary; O. V. Mitchell, 
treasurer.
The retiring officers wish to ex
press full confidence in these men 
and believe that A. I. E. E. affairs will 
prosper under their guidance.
The annual A. I. E. E. banquet will 
be held on May 9 at the Seventh Ave
nue hotel. Tickets will be $1.50 each. 
Every effort is being made to make 
this affair the best of its kind and 
early indications seem to point to 
ward success. Souvenirs have already 
been obtained from more than a half, 
dozen companies, which is a record 
for even the A. I. E. E. O. V. Mitchell, 
J. E. Davies, R. R. Lockwood and G.
H. Ikola are managing the affair.
The banquetis the biggest annual 
social function sponsored by the A. I.
E. E. It bridges the gap between pro
fessors and students; brings inter
class electrical students into har
mony, and is in a sense a farewell
INTER-FRAT COUNCIL 
HOLDS ELECTIONS MAY 12
To Provide Award For Sweep
stakes Winner; Dorm Men May 
Migrate Wednesday
Music Notes
At the last meeting held by the In
i' terfraternity Council, Saturday morn
ing, the first question up for discus
sion was that of Hell Week.
The motion that was passed last 
j week which reads as followsthat it 
be left up to the individual fraterni
ties whether or .not a man is ineligible 
I may be put through Hell Weekis 
| not looked upon with favor by the 
I school authorities. It was moved and 
j passed on that Artice 5, Section 2, in 
1 the Interfraternity Council By-Laws 
; remain the same. It reads as follows: 
i A student must have completed satisj factorily one' semester of the regular 
j college year at Carnegie, be in good 
standing as interpreted by the InstiI tute Eligibility Rules, in order to be 
j a candidates for initiation into any 
| fraternity, Lists of prospective inj itiates shall be submitted to the Dean 
of Men to be passed on for scholastic 
eligibility.
By SARA E. WONDERS 
May 2.
The performance of Mikado which 
the Pittsburgh Musical Institute 
Chorus will give in Carnegie Music 
Hall tomorrow evening is open to the 
public without admission fee, but re
served seat tickets are necessary for 
admission. Two reserved seat tickets 
may be had by sending the Institute a 
stamped and addressed envelope. 
Charles N. Boyd is director aud Frank 
Kenedy, accompanist.
May 6.
On Sunday evening, May 6, 192S, at 
8:15 in the Theater, College of Fine 
Arts, tlie department of Music will 
present Martha Hanlon, a senior, in 
a piano recital. The program is as 
follows:
I.
Handel.......................Suite in D minor
Prelude  Fugue, Allemande, Coltr
ante, Aria con variazioni. Presto.
Beethoven..........Souata, Op. 31, No. 2
LargoAllegro
Adagio
Allegretto
II.
Nominees For Offices Of 
M.M. Classes Announced
In Margaret Morrison, the . senior 
class nominees are: President, Fran
cis Guy and Annabelle Turner; senate j 
representative, Florence Jenny and I 
Mary Eckles; social chairman, Doroj 
thy Hill, Barbara Fenwick and Sally j 
Jolly. Miriam Cupps was elected, vice ! 
president; Helen Wright, secretary; I 
Helen Booth, treasurer.
The junior class nominees are: I 
President, Mary Hall and Emma Wilj 
son; secretary, Cora Lee Henk and 
Eleanor Arter; treasurer, Pat Mont-1 
gomery and Kay Anderson: senate ! 
treasurer, Peg Wageley and Peg Keej 
noy, and for social chairman. Virginia 
! Morgan and Dorothy Hopkins. Isobel i 
I Sheppard was elected state represen-1 
i tative.
1 The sophomore nominees up for j 
election are: President. Kay Collins I 
and Anne Dickenson: vice president,! 
Frances Gaines, Carol Pease and Lu-1 
cille Ross; secretary, Imogene Schory I 
and Caroline Barger; treasurer, Ruth 
Kellogg and Betty Sheekey: for so
ci;) I chairman, Sally Hall and Grace 
Borgerding.
These elections will be held in the
HINDUSTAN ASSOCIATION OF
AMERICA WILL MEET MAY 12
The Pittsburgh Chapter of the Hin
dustan Association of America will 
hold their regular monthly meeting 
Saturday, May 12th, in Margaret Mor
rison Carnegie College. The speaker 
has not yet been chosen but we have 
assurance that there will be an inter
esting lecture followed by discussion.
The Hindustan Association of Amer
ica is an organization of Hindu stu
dents in America. Its objects are: 
To interpret America to India and 
India to America, stressing cultural 
and educational aspects.1 And second
ly to create a better understanding 
between the two countries.
It was organized by a group of stu
dents from India In the year 1910. 
It received very hearty co-operation 
from the American friends and educa
tors with the result that chapters in 
leading university campuses were es
tablished all over the country. At 
present it has 20 local chapters with 
membership ranging from 10 to 50 
members. Its membership totals 400 
for the present year. The Pittsburgh 
chapter has a membership of 50 and 
has the privilege of holding national 
offices.
Beside the active members, the 
chapter has honorary members and
Supplementary Courses 
Offered Night Students
For a period of nine weeks begin
ning on Monday, April 30 and ending 
on Friday, June 29, a supplementary 
term of night classes will be held at 
i the Carnegie Institute of Technology 
for the purpose of enabling students 
to make up work of a term or of a 
j year in one subject and thereby re
move an irregularity of schedule, to 
lighten students schedules during the 
night school year by taking one of the 
subjects of the schedule in the supple
mentary term, and to enable candi
dates for degrees to take certain sub
jects required for graduation.
These supplementary term courses 
| will be given in both the College of 
Engineering and the College of Indus
tries, following the close of the regu! lar night college year on April 27.
 Subjects included in the curriculum 
I will be arithmetic, vocational mathe
matics, algebra, vocational physics, 
chemistry, engineering drawing, me
chanics, and English composition.
I The plau was inaugurated two years 
! ago under the direction of Dr. Roscoo 
, M. Ihrig, director of night courses iu
the College of Industries.

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE SIXTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. MAY 1, 1928
Doc. Marks Returns From Two INTER-SCHOLASTIC
Months Sojourn in Pirate Camp TRACK HERE SAT.
Doctor W. L. Maries, the school phy
sician, is again back at work after an 
absence of about two months. The 
doctor had been out at the Pittsburgh 
Pirates training camp at Paso liable, 
California, where he acted in the ca
pacity of team physician.
; Doc left with the second contingent 
of players on Friday, tb.0 twenty-sec
ond of February. This included the 
infielders and outfielders, the other 
members of the squad having left a 
few days before. They arrived at the 
regular Pirate camp which is at Paso 
Itobles, on the following Monday even
ing. The next day the men loosened 
up and began preparations for the 
long grind of the coming season. Doc 
was kept pretty busy around the camp 
as some of the men went to work too 
quickly and others contracted the 
usual number of Ihjuries, all of which 
was enough to keep the physician run
ning, which one of Hungerford's r* 
toons shows to good advantage.
The squad left Paso Robles on the, 
nineteenth of March and went to San 
Francisco. They were there twelve 
lays while they played representative 
teams of the Pacific Coast League. 
From San Francisco, they went to 
Los Angeles and during their four 
days there, they played four practice 
games with the Chicago Cubs. Frmi 
Los Angeles homeward, the next :top 
was Phoenix, Ariz., for one day. Then 
across the Desert to San Antonio, 
Texas, where they met the San An
tonio team of the Texas League. 
While still in Texas, they stopped at 
Dallas long enough for a practice 
game with the Detroit Americans. 
From Dallas to Memphis, Tenn., where 
(hey halted two days and played the 
Memphis Southern League i.eam. An 
Exhibition game was played at Jack
son, Tenn., after leaving Memphis. 
From Jackson to Padacuh, Ky., and 
from this little place to Saint Louis, 
where the National League baseball 
eason was opened with the..St. Louis 
Cardinals at three-thirty in the after
noon of Wednesday, the eleventh oC 
April. After being defeated in all but 
. me game, which was prevented by
the rain, they journeyed to Cincinnati 
for four games with the Cincinnati 
Reds. Leaving Cincinnati, they arriv
ed in Pittsburgh on Tuesday evening, 
the seventeenth of April, after an ab
sence of nearly two months.
"It was a most wonderful trip, said 
I the Doctor,'when interviewed, "even 
| though we did have some bad weath
er after we left San Antonio, on the 
way home. There . was also pretty 
much rain and the general atmosphere 
was wet and cold. This partially hin
dered the condition of the team and 
along with injuries, has slowed the 
boys some. Bui, speaking from an un
prejudiced standpoint, it is the strong
est team in the league and no In field 
or outfield can compare with that of 
the Bue's. The apparent slump which 
the team is in at present can be ex
plained by the fact that they are not 
in the proper playing shape, and they 
I will not be in this shape until they 
accustom themselves to the peculiar 
j weather we are now having, and have 
j played hard for about three weeks.
| Therefore by the middle of May. they 
I should be going at top speed. Their 
I pitching staff is one of the best and 
i there is no doubt in my mind that, 
with about three weeks, good weather 
and no injuries, they will be winning 
consistently.
The Doctor graduated from the Uni
versity of Pennsylvania in nineteen 
hundred and. eleven and came here im
mediately after graduation, as the 
school physician, a position which he 
has very successfully held ever since. 
I-Ie played varsity football and basket 
ball for three years at U. of P., and 
was captain of basket hall in his se
nior year. This is his second year as 
team physician for the Pittsburgh-club 
and much of the success of tlie Pi
rates .last season can be traced to 
Doc's care of the men during train
ing period. He is well-known and 
well liked in all athletic circles and 
he is particularly well known as an 
authority. His numerous friends in 
all walks of life, all over the country, 
testify to his winning personality and 
pleasing disposition.
High School Athletes Will 
Compete For Handsome 
Trophies and Medals
On the Plaid Screen |
This Saturday, May 5, the residents 
of our fair Schenley district will be 
treated to a dazzling display of ath
letic prowess. High school athle.es! 
from four states will vie, at Tech 
Bowl, for supremacy. All this will be 
made possible through the efforts of 
the Athletic Association in holding 
once more an inter-scholastic track 
meet at. Carnegie. While the meet is 
not olliciaily a part of Campus Week, 
it should provide an exceedingly in
teresting sequel to the events of the 
two days preceding it. Most of the 
high schools of the district have sig
nified their intention of entering the 
competition and their entry blanks 
are already in the hands of Donald b., 
Putt, the manager of the affair, bo-1 
lumbus I-IIgh of Columbus, Ohio, is 
among the thirty or forth schools who 
have entered and will, no doubt, try 
hard to duplicate their victory of last 
year.
The prizes offered are oi such a 
nature as to merit the best efforts of! 
all the contestants. Besides the tro
phy offered to the high point team of 
the meet, each school will have a 
chance to carry off one of the four 
relay trophies, one -being offered for 
the winner in each of the four classes, 
A. B, C and D. Each individual ath
lete may add to his own collection of 
medals by winning either first, second 
or third place in any event.
The meet will start promptly at 
eleven 6clock and will continue until 
thewinners in each event have been 
decided. Proper facilities will be pro
vided both for contestants and onlook
ers and all indications point toward a 
bigger and better meet than has ever 
been held here before. Every follow
er of track and field sports will un
doubtedly find plenty to see and will 
be highly entertained until the medals 
and trophies are carted away to the 
town whose school boys have proven 
themselves superior to all.
GRIDMEN FINISH 
SPRING TRAINING
BY FREDERICK D. WOODS
What this years well dressed athlete will wear for his spring activities 
requires little conjecture. , So far the correct tennis costume would consist 
of a long yellow slicker with cap and boots to match, while the track men, 
if present conditions continue, will be hopping off their meets on snow shoes. 
To date King Weather has frowned with beetling disapproval on the athletes 
attempts to gel. out in the great open spaces.. Hi#***#**
Saturday the relay team journeyed to Philadelphia and won the Penn 
relay through default. Georgia Tech was their only opponent and their fail
ure to show up was taken as a forfeiture.Grove City screwed up enough courage to report, at the local track. How1 oyer the generous blanketing of snow over the cinders made it Impossible as 
 well as foolish to run the men. Only strained muscles and possibility of 
sickness can follow a. track moot held In weatlyar that has so far been in 
evidence. On the coming Saturday the whole team journeys to Beavpr Falls 
to tackle Geneva., Guy Hal forty has a number of good men at his disposal 
and chances for a victory over the Coventors looms exceedingly bright.* * * * * * >ii *
The spring football training suasion ended Inst Saturday, a hard scrimmnoc winding up the grind. Undoubtedly the training period has served its 
purpose; the plebes being initiated to the Steffen-Wnddell system of football, 
and the conches having a good lino on the possibilities for the coming season. 
On Friday Waddell had a private talk with ench Individual player and in
structed thorn mostly In the work they wore to do this summer.
There Is no denying that prospoots for next senson are the brightest In 
Carnegie history; with an unusual amount of good material available, plus a 
long training period next fall on account of the late date on which school 
opens. Though an undefeated season seems too much to hope for, the pros
pects Indicate that one Carnegie ambition will be fulfilled next yearn vic
tory over our -veil known jinx, Wash-Jeff.* + * ? * * + *
Again Carnegie will ho hosts to the High Schools In their twelfth annual 
inter-scholastic track meet to be hold in the bowl. Some sixty schools, repre
senting a total of over a thousand athletes are entered In the classic, hud the meet on Saturday should prove an interesting sequel to Campus Week. Cer
tainly it will behoove Carnegie to make the best impression possible on these sohool-boy athletes, for a goodly number of them are right now deciding 
which school to matriculate in next fall.The hammer throw has been made an optional event this year, due to 
the ease with which the stalwart huskies from Lock Haven High School 
lia.ve captured every place in the event since their school first came to the 
meet, in 1924. This one event always gave Lock Haven 15 points, which is 
usually sufficient to place a school third or better. Under the new ruling, 
medals are given for the first three places in the hammer throw, but the 
points are not counted in team totals. While this apparent discrimination 
against Lock Haven, it seems only fair to other schools, most of which do 
not enter a man in the hammer throw.* * ** ** * *
Tennis men are indulging in some half-liearted practice in the gym with 
little possibility of gettiug on the courts this week. The varsity match with 
Bethany, slated last Saturday was called off, but they are to meet again, 
later in the season, on the Skibo courts.With soi little opportunity to display their ability, Coach Hoover has 
been unable to pick up even a tentative lineup. With no outdoor practice 
the squad is undoubtedly in a poor condition, but as other schools are labor
ing under similar difficulties the chances for a victorious trip eastward are 
fairly bright.
We see by the papers that Purl Anderson, last years grid captain, took 
a journey out to Cleveland and got into a, mixup with Nick Gavin, as a 
preliminary to the Routis-Fernandez bout. Unfortunately the second round 
found Purl stretched on the mat as a result of a gentle caress on the chin 
from friend Nick. Nevertheless Purl is establishing quite a local reputation 
as an amateur boxer, as well as one of the Tartans best captains.
gagemWt of an orchestra of more 
than the ordinary number of men.
The Gym and the Union will be 
decorated for the dance and aTl signs 
point to a very successful hop. The 
following men and women will act as 
chaperones: Mr. and Mrs. Work, Mr.
and Mrs. W. T. Crandell, Mr. and Mrs. 
Clarence (Buddy) Overend, Mr. ami 
Mrs. Bob Schmertz, Mr. and Mrs. 11. 
B. Leighou, Dr. and Mrs. Sclioen, and 
Mr. and Mrs. Kirkpatrick.
'Ilie following members of the Ex
ecutive Board have been invited to 
act as patrons for the dance: Dr.
Baker, Dean Breed, Director and Mrs. 
Connelloy, Dr. and Mrs. Ihrig, Director 
and Mrs. A. C. Jewett, Dean Glendenning Keeble, Director and Mrs. 
William F. Mott, Dean Green, Dean 
I Tarbell, and. Mr. and Mrs. Ala if 
Bright.
Friday afternoon the Cabaret dance 
will be held between 2:00 and 5:00 p. 
m. Fight, members of the Collegiate Imps will play for the dance al
though eleven men will play in the 
Vodvll Show. 'P. C. Wray, chairman 
of the Cabaret and Roller Skating 
Carnival Committee, is working hard 
on the arrangements. Wray plans to 
I bring the Academy Calliope or band 
wagon on the 1 campus for several 
hours to advertise the Cabaret dance 
more effectively.
The committee is also arranging to 
bring a special first class dancing 
team from New York City to supply 
entertainment for tlie dancers at the 
Cabaret. Tables will be placed around 
the dance floor and ice cream and cold 
drinks may be ordered. The following 
are the members of the committee and 
their respective duties. Isobel Shep
pard, entertainment at dances; Redj 
McCombs, getting Calliope; Gordon 
Durr, arrangements for the skating 
Carnival! and Frank Foote will have 
charge of refreshments.
CAMPUS WEEK DANCES
START WITH MIGRATORY
AND DORM DANCE WED.
(Continued From Fuse One.) 
the last Issue to the Fraternity Di
rectory.
Last year it will be remembered 
that Alpha Rlio Chis cup for the best 
decorated fraternity house was award
ed to the Phi ICappa PsI fraternity. 
The cup will remain in their posses
sion because it will not be awarded 
this year because the fraternities luive 
all agreed not to decorate.
1 The Dormitory Council will hold
T the Ninth Annual Campus Week Dorm
wi dance Wednesday, May 2, 192S, In the
doi Womens Gymnasium. Music will be 
ical, furnished from 9:00 p. m. until 1:30 
educ;a. m. by Ralph Krucks Orchestra, 
"lie patrons of the dance are: Dean 
id Mrs. Arthur W. Tarbell, Dean 
ry Watson Green, Mr. and Mrs.
Alexander J. Wurts, and Miss Eliza
beth Helm. The Dormitory Council 
will decorate the Gym and will serve 
refreshments.
The Coronation; ceremonies will be 
held Thursday evening at 9:00 p. m. 
on the steps of Machinery Hall. Betty 
McFndden will he crowned Queen of 
Campus Week after appropriate cere
monies. The ladios-ln-walting, .lean 
Roy and Marjorie Snodgrass will bo 
dressed in costumes in which blue 
will be the predominating color while 
Betty McFadden will be dressed in 
royal purple. The Coronation Dance 
will start at 9:30 p. m. and will last 
until .1:00 a. m. The Gym and Union 
will both be used to take care of the 
immense throng of students and their 
friends who are planning to attend. 
The Collegiate Imps will play in 
the Gym as they have three more men 
than the Golden Gate orchestra 
which will play in the Union. The 
size of the gym necessitates the enBrown University.  Students at 
Brown University spend about $25-9 
a week for tobacco, and a slightly 
smaller amount for'candy, the Brown 
University Union reports. Cigarets 
lead'the list of smudges, with, pipe 
tobacco and cigars following, in order. 
Not enough chewing tobacco is dis
posed of among the undergraduatesto. make it worth mentioning.
Heidelberg College. : Heidelberg' 
College co-eds have started a drive 
for greater date freedom. The girls' 
student council voted to ask the fac
ulty for freedom from dormitories for 
Sunday afternoon walks, 10:30 o'clock 
date on Friday night, and 11 oclock 
dates Saturdays. Datesare now 
barred on Friday nights and the Sat
urday night limit is 10:30 oclock.
University of MichiganUncovering 
an old catalogue of the university, the 
Michigan Daily has discovered that 
It. cost the students from $70 to $100 
per year to attend the University of 
Michigan in 1S74. Rooms with janitor 
service cost from $5 to $7.50 a year 
anywhere in Ann Arbor.
In those days there were only 92 
students with a graduating class of 12.
Nearly 40 Varsity Together 
With New Plebes Will 
Report in Sept.
Some three weeks ago the aspirants 
for football berths donned their uni
forms for their annual spring train-, 
ing session, which began the Tuesday 
following Easter.
For the first, as well as every'Other 
day, everything had an exceedingly 
bright aspect in the eyes of Coach 
Waddell. The personnel for five 
five complete teams reported, and 
were handled with little difficulty 
through the able assistance of Erwin, 
Allison and the weekly consultations 
of Head Coach Wally Steffen. Most 
of the time was spent in preliminary 
drill and exercise in order to get lim
bered up for the scrimmages which 
were to follow. The rainy days were 
spent in long blackboard drills by 
Coach Waddell in which he gave much 
valuable information to the boys who 
are expected to make a creditable 
showing next year.
Interest in this spring football 
camp was the keenest it has been in 
years. The teams got started on 
schedule but run into a number of 
days which, were anything but football 
weather. When possible a hard 
scrimmage was held and these have 
been of great value in determining 
the fitness of certain players for their 
most suitable positions.
Obviously, as Waddell points out, 
no man will be permanently picked 
out and assigned to a position as a re
sult of his performance during the 
past three weeks. Nevertheless these 
few days will have a great bearing 
upon the final selections and as a 
consequence the /more promising can
didates have been working excep
tionally hard. It is the objective of 
spring camp to form a basis on which 
to work in the fall. This saves con
siderable time and confusion in Sep
tember when the men report for se
rious work.
The outstanding developments of 
the practice were, as expected, tlie 
creditable performance of members 
of the plebe team. There is little conj tention for the position at center as 
| Dreshars commendable performance, 
last year, has about clinched the berth 
for him. Eyth and Karcis have shown 
up well so far; Karcis with his speed 
coupled with weight is Letzelters 
most serious contender for fullback. 
While Eyth has not the weight of 
j Karcis he has exceptional speed, 
which, together with his weaving and 
turning tactics promises to make him 
one of the leading lights of the com
ing season. It will be a close fight 
I between Schnupp, Highberger and 
Schmidt for tackle while the guards 
will probably be filled by either Neth\erland, Lowell or Melziner. Harpster 
will be at quarter and either Scliaughnessy, Sweet, Rosenzweig or Flannagan holding down the ends.
From all evidence it looks like an 
exceptionally heavy line coupled with 
both a heavy and fleet backfield will 
constitute the 1928 football eleven. 
One consolation, there should be at 
least a few good men sitting on the 
bench at all times which will be quite 
a contrast to the difficulty of the past 
year, when there was often no worthy 
man suitable for substitution. .
* The following important *
* change has been made in the
* new sweepstakes rules. The on? 
*! ly men barred as pushers are ?!-
* those who have won their major *
* varsity letter in track or cross<-
* country. Contrary to rule 3c, ?
* any fraternity may run men now *> 
?I* engaged in active track work, 1*
* unless they fall in the above *!*
* classification. -JWesleyan University.  Agitation 
has been renewed by the students and 
alumni of Wesleyan University to 
have the name of the institution 
changed. The reason for the desired 
change is the general mix-up caused 
by the -fact that there are a score of 
Wesleyans scattered throughout the 
United States.
FIRST CHURCH OF CHRIST |
SCIENTIST 
CLYDE STREET, PITTSBURGH
SUNDAY SERVICES 11 A. M. 8 P. M. j
Sunday School 11 A. M.
Wednesday evening services 8 to 9. j
Commonwealth CollegeThe 
worlds largest newspaper has been 
started at Commonwealth College, 
Lawrence, Kansas. It consists of two 
pages, each five feet long and three 
and one-half feet wide and made by 
hand. Its total circulation consists 
of one copy per issue. A bulletin 
board was created out of ship-lap lum
ber. The columns are five inches wide. 
Each story is written on typewriter 
paper of the required width and then 
pasted on the board. Headlines are 
hand printed. When completed, the 
paper has the appearance of an en
large page of a conventional news
paper.
ADVERTISE-AND GET RESULTS
University of Chicago.Due to a 
lack of support, the interclass hop, 
one of the leading social events of 
the school year at the University of 
Chicago, has been abolished. A deficit 
of $300 which was made up by the 
students was one of the reasons for 
discontinuing the hop.
GEORGE ABRAMS
DEALER IN SECOND HAND 
CLOTHES 
1534 Center Avenue
OAKLANDS 
RESTAURANT 
for 
CARNEGIE 
STUDENTS
DASCHBACH'S
3808-10 Forbes Street
Finds Right 
Tobacco for 
the Tropics
October 6, 1926Larus & Bro. Co.Richmond, Va., U. S. A..Gentlemen:Most all well-known tobaccos smoke well in a cold or temperate climate, but very few in a tropical climate. They are mostly too heavy, don't seem to be blended rightat least that is my opinion gained from practical experience.However, Edgeworth is the same in any climate. Again that is my opinion gained by practical experience.I cannot get the same pleasure out of any brand of tobacco that I can out of Edgeworth, and I have tried many 
and paid fancy prices, too. It costs real money to smoke imported tobaccos  here; the import duty is very high.
Anyway, we cannot have everything we would like in these countries, so we hold on to all the little pleasures possible. Now you know why I smoke Edgeworth.Yours respectfully,R. C. Rigg Cartagena, Columbia, S. A.
Edgeworth
Extra High Grade
Smoking Tobacco
Stanford University.  A medical 
student at Stanford University is 
earning his way through school by 
raisihg and sedikig rattlesnakes.
When Dad Was a Modem Youth
^"73ICYCLES,stereopticon lectures, 
eJLJ and the "gilded youths with 
their horses and carts; at night the 
midnight oil burning in student 
lamps while the gas lights glared and 
flickered across the campusthe 
gay nineties when Dad was in 
college seem primitive to us to-day.
Now its sport roadsters, the 
movies, and radios. At night 
the DM92M lamp replaces 
the midnight oil in dormi
tory rooms, while modern
street lighting sheds its friendly 
glow over tlie campus.
Without electricity we would 
have none of these improve
ments. To-days marvel of electrical 
invention becomes to-morrows 
accepted utility. In the coming 
years, by taking advantage of new 
uses of electricity you will be 
able to go so much farther 
that the tearing twenties 
will seem just as primitive 
as the "gay nineties.
Scientists in the research laboratories of the General Electric 
Company keep G.E. a leader in the field of electrical 
progress. Skilled G-E engineers develop each latest invention. 
The G-E factories carry out the engineers designs with 
high-quality material and expert 'workmanship.
GENERAL ELECTRIC
GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY,__SCHENECTADY. _____ NEW YORK

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, MAY 1, 1928THE CARNEGIE TARTANPAGE SEVEN
Guild Completes A 
Successful Season
Theta Tau Holds Formal 
Initiation Last Saturday
Organization Finishes Three 
Undertakings Planned 
During Year
Tlie Womens Guild is nearing the 
completion of a very successful year 
with but one project as yet unfinish
ed. Although the customary annual 
carnival was abolished, the organiza
tion, through its yearly drive, raised" 
the funds with which to carry on the 
year's work.
The Guilds largest undertaking 
was the collection of more than a 
hundred childrens books which were 
donated to the St. Margarets Hos
pital. Carnegie students furnished 
the Guild with these childrens books 
for which they no longer had any use, 
in order that little sick kiddies in the 
hospital might derive some enjoyment 
from them. A decorative plate, de
signed by Blanche Bray and Jeanette 
Folmar, P. and D. students, was 
placed in the front of each book.
A little later the Guild provided 
the Margaret Morrison Recreation 
Hall with a dictionary and sta.nd, a 
much needed addition to the Margaret 
Morrison building.
The furnishing of fittings for a 
club room in a settlement house is 
now under way. Drapes, furniture 
coverings, cushion covers and such 
are being bought by the Guild and 
donated to the settlement most in 
need of them.
In view of these activities, the Wo
mens Guild promises to grow and to 
continue its philanthropic work in 
the future. A new plan was adopted 
this year, that of putting to immediate 
use the money received from the 
drive instead of adding it to an ac
cumulating fund. This fund was to 
be used to establish a settlement and 
summer camp for poor children. The 
fund, now, will not be touched until 
some definite decision as to its ex
penditure has been made, but the 
money received each year will be 
used for philanthropic purposes.
This years board, under which the 
work has been carried on, is com
posed of Adele Hahn, president. 
Louise Roy, Irene Tedrow, Helen Bene
dict, Laura Bisell, Dorothy Roy, 
Jeanette Folmar, Evelyn Goldenson, 
and Blanche Bray.
Last Saturday night, April 2S, Theta 
Tau, Honorary Engineer Fraternity, 
held its formal initiation at which 
twelve prominent engineering stu
dents became members. A banquet at 
the Carnegie Inn followed the initia
tion. Dr. Thomas S. Baker was the 
principle speaker of the evening. The 
following Sophomore and Junior En
gineers were initiated:
Henry L. Bunker, John W. Luoma, 
Robert R. Galbreath, Charles Suesseratt, Russell Loxterman, Robert 
Schmidt, H. N. Gemmill, George Wile, 
Donald Campbell, Ben Auld and 
Robert H. Johnston.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT
IN COLLEGE AS CON
STRUCTIVE GROUP ACTION
By A RECENT GRADUATE
Within the last 15 years student 
government has become the popular 
tiling, not only in colleges but in pre
paratory and even pre-preparatory 
schools. Only too often, it has been 
adopted as a means of getting the 
children, or a part of them, to take 
sides with authoritya sort of in
ducement to make them behave, and 
sometimes also to make them carry 
the brunt of the schools discipline. 
Here lies the great weakness of the 
average student government, espe
cially in secondary schools. The pu
pils are given to understand that they 
have certain independent authority. 
They carry on meetings, enact regu
lations and so on. Then comes a time 
when the thought of the principal and 
that of the students is not at one. 
Clearly the principal is ultimately re
sponsible for the welfare of the school 
and cannot sidestep. On the other 
hand if, as the children have been 
given to understand, the principal 
honestly believes in their ability to 
govern themselves, he will want to 
go very slowly in overriding them. 
He will not want to interfere unless he 
is sure the good of the school is be
ing seriously compromised; and if he 
decides it is necessary to intervene, 
he will' explain the case as fully as 
he can and help the students to state 
their case to him. Above all things 
lie will respect the Integrity of the 
little government and never go back 
on the contract he originally made 
with the school.
But school governments are rarely 
treated with such consideration. 
Head masters seem to think the stu
dents are beguiled by the outward 
forms of power and confidence, the 
badges and duties (especially the 
latter!) of office without the Tights. 
They interfere upon a whim or else, 
more subtly, influence the students. 
Here as elsewhere, the colleges reap 
what the secondary schools have 
sown.
The writer has heard many fresh
men (especially ones who had failed 
to meet the requirements of tlie col
lege community!) say, in talking of 
the government, You know, its hard 
for us freshmen to take the thing 
seriously until we get Into trouble 
and come up against it. We had It 
at school, but it was just hot air. If 
you really did something wrong the 
principal always talked to you. We 
couldnt really have anything changed, 
and only the big guns who were 
chummy with the faculty went in for 
it.
The first problem of the College 
government is to correct this distorted 
idea before it is too late. Good gov
ernment is group progress along defi
nite workable lines. The under
graduates of a college, and some
times the. faculty are included, have 
certain interests as a community. 
They form an association, a sort of 
miniature nation, in order to bring 
about this progress. Sometimes the 
functions of tlie student government
are reduced to those dealing with the 
maintenance of the social standards 
and community regulations; the en
acting and enforcing of all necessary 
(and some unnecessary!) regulations. 
This, I think, is a serious mistake. 
Making people behave themselves is 
after all qnly a corollary of govern
ment. Order, and the control of the 
individual' when he compromises the 
liberty of the group, is only part of 
what the community wants. It wants 
also the comforts of life and all sorts 
of facilitiesbuildings, walks, employ
ment bureaus, eating places, and co
operative stores for the sale and ex
change of books and furniture. These 
and many similar wants of the com
munity are all within the field of a 
government association. More par
ticular interests such as drama, poli
tics, or athletics will probably form 
clubs or organizations of their own; 
but the general wants of the under
graduates as a whole  the public 
service activitiesshould be provided 
for by their government.
Sucliv a student government pre
supposes a liberal faculty, but after 
all, if things are reasonably presented 
to them, most college faculties are 
pretty open-minded bodies. Co-opera
tion is essential, of course, and so is 
patience and good sportsmanship, but 
fundamental to these there lias got 
to be solid mutual respect. Contracts 
betweeir students and faculty may 
not be debatable at law, but they must 
be adhered to by both parties with the 
strictest honor. As a matter of fact, 
the students rarely have a chance to 
break their end of tlie. agreement and 
the temptation to override their own 
charter comes more often to a faculty. 
But in the first place, to do this is un
fair, and in the second place it is ul
timately almost sure to have been im
politic, no matter what the occasion. 
It seems indisputable that the morale 
of a self-governing group is higher 
than that of any other in the long 
run, and the leading of students into 
thinking they are self-governing and 
then recalling their charter at a cru
cial moment without the due process 
previously agreed upon, will not do 
as a substitute.
Sometimes the authorities, in their 
desire not to antagonize student 
opinion, assume a cordiality they are 
far from feeling. This is almost as 
bad as not giving the students any 
hearing at all. Frankness and lib
erality will beget honesty and respect, 
and eventually if not immediately 
friendship as, well.
High Values.
The educational value of student 
government, when it is at all genuine, 
is great. The general theory of group 
rule and a sense of the community as 
something to be considered cannot be 
missed by any member of the col
lege, and a large number of them get 
practical experience as well. Of 
.course, the discouraging thing about 
government by students, at least from 
the point of view of the more per
manent residents, .is that it often 
seems to begin at the beginning again 
every year, and every four years or 
so is apt to be entirely remodeled on 
the ground that it is an antiquated 
wreck!
One wonders whether a government 
carried on by students is ultimately 
more or less efficient, than one man
aged by persons paid by the college 
to do the work. Of course, the latter 
group would have certain great ad
vantages. They could accumulate tlie_ 
technique which now leaves the col
lege with the outgoing officers each 
year, and they would supposedly have 
more time to devote to the business 
than the students have. On the other 
hand, they could not be expected to 
throw in anything like the energy and 
vitality that the students bring to the 
job. Each new group brings in a 
steaming batch of new ideas and en
thusiasm, and there is no stinting in 
the thought and initiative they apply 
to their work.
A Question Arises.
The question here arises as to 
whether the college as a whole has 
a right to tlie time and energy of 
these girls. At the last meeting of 
the Womens Intercollegiate Associa
tion for Student Government, held 
in Washington last November, the 
writer heard a number of presidents 
of government associations discussing 
this very matter. It developed that 
these individuals gave on an average 
of from 8 to 15 hours a week to the 
carrying on of their jobs. That is 
equivalent to eight hours of credit 
toward a degree. Most of them saU 
it was worth it.
The great problem which faces all 
student-run governments is that of 
law enforcement. There is no detecllive service, no police force. To meet 
j this difficulty the Honor System 
was evolved. The idea is every man. 
his own policeman! The student who 
breaks the law or knows of someone
else who is doing so is pledged to re
port herself or to ask the offender of 
whom she knows to report in her 
turn. In the last analysis the pledge 
is simply one of good citizenship car
ried to the full measure. In the world 
at large it is, after all, not the police 
force which is the backbone of the 
law; it is the respect which the indi
vidual citizen has for his own and liis 1 
fellows agreement. The .members of 
a college group under the honor sys
tem formally recognize thi responsi
bility which is theirs for the law of 
the group. If they fail iu this respon
sibility they fail tlie community. At 
least, that is the idea upon which 
rests student government in most 
girls colleges. It is certainly sound 
in theory, and its practicability de
pends wholly on the degree of socialmindeduess which the community has 
attained. It tends to develop this 
characteristic in any case. It is mod
erately successful', and surely it justi
fies itself if one believes in aiming at 
the highest social ideal.
'C. S. M.
University of West Virginia.
ARE YOU THE KIND OF GUY 
WHO:
Brags about what you spend on your 
girl?
Tells your fraternity brothers about 
the hot blonde?
Pads the expense list to the folks 
at home?
Raves about the things YOU have 
done?
Is never wrong, but always right?
ARE YOU THE KIND OF GIRL 
WHO:
Brags about what you got out of 
this and that fellow?
Tells your girl friends the latest 
DIRT?
Pads your desires to suit the escorts 
pocketboolc?
Raves about brainless chatter?
Is always right and has to have her 
way?
University of California.What is 
education?
One instructor in the university, re
alizing that college students see little 
enough, in general, of life outside the 
classroom, is obliging those studying 
under him to interview personally 
some authority on a given subject, 
outside the academic sphere.
Another instructor at a northern 
university recently advocated a year 
of honest-to-goodness hobo life as a 
preparation for college work. He 
maintained that at the end of a year 
a man would return with a broader, 
more rational view of life, and would 
be more capable of appreciating col
lege environment.
When we realize how narrow some 
sheepskin holders and undergraduates 
really are, in spite of their "higher 
learning, the value of these contacts 
with the world is apparent.
Louisiana State College.The new 
model husband will be a graduate in 
home economics, believes Prof. Helen 
Carter of Louisiana State College.
At Ease!
for active sports
Here its comfort that 
counts most . . . more than 
convenience, more even 
than looks . . . although all 
three are important.
Do you pause after every 
stroke at tennis to yank 
up the hosiery? . . . and do 
you swing a golf club to 
t li e accompaniment of 
snapping shoulder straps'?
You shouldnt, you know. 
Because its a sign that 
youre not well dressed! 
Your sleeveless tennis 
frock may be made of the 
newest, smartest printed 
pique; your golf togs may 
be the pick of the Sports
wear Shop; and your 
habit may be the kind that 
makes people ask you why 
you ever get off a horse. 
. . . But rememberits 
the UNDER layer that 
makes or mars perfection!
Finesse
A single garment, cool and 
comfortable as can be . . . 
made of a porous fabric 
and crocheted elastic, 
without a hook or fasten
ing of any kind! A sort of 
glorified step-in, 
that combines in 
one piece about 
everything youll 
need to wear 
under sports 
clothes. Extra 
flexible, from 
shoulder straps 
to garters. $01.11.
An all-elastic step-in gir
dle, for the figure that 
needs a bit more restraint. 
Hand-fashioned so that it 
will give maximum free
dom of movement. No 
back hose supporters. 
$5.00.
Third Floor
LASTE! CAMPT UAW
* Northwestern University.  Sorori
ties nt Northwestern University wore 
forced to take special precautions 
against thefts during football games 
this year.
University of Washington.Roller 
skates and bicycles are threatening to 
talco from the flivver its prestige as 
the campus conveyance at Stanford 
University.
Iowa Stato Collogo.For th pro
duction or a sorlos of originai play* 
a drumatlc workshop has boon org^tS 
Izod in th Boston University ftty, 
lego of liberal arts. ttw>
Blindfolded . . . in scientific test of
leading Cigarettes, Mrs. Reginald C. Vanderbilt
H'ar
selectsjGE NRGE
Mus. 8.oEPM.s C. UMP2.G.Eit
I wonder if one can really tell the difference, when 
blindfolded, was my first thought when invited to make 
this test.
After smoking the four brands, as they were handed to 
me one after another, I discovered there was one that was 
noticeably smoother than the others and richer in taste.
This proved to be an Old Gold. I hope I shall be able 
to buy them in Paris . . . they are surprisingly free from 
any trace of throat irritation and have a delightful aroma 
which to me is very important.
How 
Test Was Made
Mrs. Vanderbil t was blind
folded, and, in the pres
ence of two responsible 
witnesses, was given one 
each of the four leading 
cigarettes to smoke ... To 
clear the taste, coffee was 
served before each ciga
rette . . . Mrs. Vanderbilt 
was unaware of tlie iden
tity of these cigarettes 
during test... After sxnoking the four cigarettes, 
Mrs. Vanderbilt: was ask^d 
/ to designate by number 
her choice . .. She imme
diately replied: Number 
3...whichwa80LDGOLD.
Why can you pick them in the durlt?
..........Because theyre made from tlio
hcart-lcavcs of the tobacco plant 
ft
SMOOTHER AND BETTER  NOT A COUGH IN A CARLOAD

---------------------------------------------------

PAGE EIGHTTHE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY. MAY 1, 1923
an
, PHONE MAYFLOWER 000 
PubllwHcd once every week during the collctto year by underjfraduntoB of Camene Instituto 
of Technology. Entered in the Plttaburgn 
Pont Ofllce nu nocond-cbuM matter.
EDITORIAL STAFF
Editor-in-Chief ...................Fenton Finn
Managing Editor...............Milton Cohen
News Editor...............Margaret' 8.VNnII
Athletic Editor.....................Fred Wood
Womens Editor.......................Jean Roy
Alumni Editor...................Herbert Grau
EXCHANGE EDITORS Josephine Clark Florence McLaughlin 
CONTRIBUTING EDITORS 
Russell Bullin'ger William RoseA. E. Fisher E. Weaver
John Schnleder Meredith StumpHelen Reed Nathan Miller
Sara E. Wonders 
JUNIOR EDITORS S. C. Ralston Harold Jacobson
Dorothy Roy William McNeill
REPORTERS
H. L. Bunker, Jr. 
E. J a rein a 
T. Lippert 
W. W. Hay
C. ParkJ. J. Boyle 
H. N. Meixner 
J Carpe 
H. Levinson 
W. J. Eason 
H. Booth M. Echels 
N. Kline 
W. II. Worland 
W. H. Martsolf 
G. M. Wilson 
L. I. Shusset 
A. G. Allen
D. K. Tomer 
L. M. Baugh
Ina I-Iunsell 
E. Schlesinger
B. Kurin
J. H. McAteer
C. Boyd
K. ODonnell R. Brumson 
H. Whitehlll 
It. Barr 
A. M. Fisher 
J. E. White 
M. B. Maze 
C. R. NelsonC. F. AHmnhflil 
A. F. Phillips 
W. L. Myers
J. B. Patterson 
E. J. Dattisman
D. H. Barr G. H. M err in
It is this condition, this disorder of 
mind that is met by the .stock remon
strance, You dont have the right 
attitude." Granted, but why not give 
us some aid, some guidance in.search
ing out the meaning of that phrase? 
Mr. Edmans recommendations are 
worthy of consideration. Tlie first is 
a required clearer understanding on 
the part of college teachers and ad
ministrators of the nature of those 
issues and conflicts which disintegrate 
many undergraduates. Tlie second is 
the presence on the college campus 
of a trained psychiatrist to whom 
cases of nervous or psychical disinte
gration could be referred. The third 
Is the provision of lecture and semi
nar courses in morals which could 
come to grips with the human issues 
that are actually moral issues to stu
dents. instead of treating them to the 
traditional casuistry of academic mor
alists." C. F. N.
KNOWLEDGE PLUS
In an article in the current issue of 
the Atlantic Monthly Albert. North 
Whitehead, professor of philosophy at 
Harvard, comes to the conclusion that 
| the welding together of imagination 
and knowledge is the true function of 
a university. The imaginative consid{eration of acquired knowledge is the 
I duty of teacher and student alike; the 
contact of the mind of the scholar en
gaged in research with the eager intellect or the young at its most [ Cardo hartlon DisGnwolle.
Inative stage iu the prescription for ithe fulfillment of this task. ] Thlstfedown hopes everyone has
Mr. Whitehead's definition is timeI been enjoying the weather. One thing 
less. In all ages imagination and
SECRETARIAL ASSISTANTS . 
Mary Alice James Ludmilla Allen Margaret McConnaugliey 
Helen Zeleznjak.
BUSINESS STAFF Business Manager.. .Slielby McMllllon
Advertising Manager........J. H. Seibert
Assistants RWehrleT. R. Zone D. II. Gen ter
W. M. Crosby
CIRCULATION STAFF 
Circulation Manager. .Harold Kandell 
Assistants
G. Brahmst A. FrankJ. Roth A. Haynes
G. C. I-Iarbison C. E. BlassB. Wed nor S. Bluestone
A. Teplitz I. LevinM. Malinich S. Feigenbaum
R. W. Carter J. P. JoneBS. A. Bottonari D. Seville
II. Rosenberg G. E. Miller
oniceRoom 12, IndimtrleB Buildinic. Office 
HourMonday to TburminyH, 12:30-1:20 
Paper made up Friday, 12:!10-0:00.To 1 nun re publication on the BiicceodinK 
fPuoBdny. n0WH I (mini must be in the student pout office or Tartan Office before 4 :Jt0 Jliuru^After Office Hourn cull Schonley 1400, 
Sclitmley 084(1, Scbcnley 0211.All editorials which are initialed 
are contributed by persons other than 
the editor, uninitialed editorials are 
those by the editor.
ir tin.11 as 
knoss
donco. irritating tackle (i
THE RIGHT ATTITUDE
beyond all other hackProbable Improvements ? ? ?SERIOUSLY SPEAKING
THISTLEDOWN
knowledge have walked hand-in-hand 
supplementing each other. Great 
steps forward have been made only 
with the co-operation of these - two. 
Some perpetuation of this union is 
essential to insure the steady growth 
of durable work.
A modern university is a miniature 
of the modern world, embracing every 
endeavor found elsewhere on a larger 
scale. The students of a universi'./ 
are players taking part in a dummy 
scrimmage. They are going through 
the motions, and in doing so they may 
plan to meet emergencies which may 
never come. They can make mistakes 
which would be fatal in a larger 
sphere of life but which, after they 
are made, may be stored up as profit 
for the , future. Knowledge gained 
from observation and from the acqui
sition of facts may be illumined by
tiedown continues to write for the 
Tartan, the editor hopes to add four 
more pages and appear in green.
Thistledown has had an idea about 
the 1928-29 Plebe Bible. He wishes iB why science accepts tlie weather the edjt0). woul(I atick n a new plebe
lie has never been able to understand
so complacently, and doesnt try to do 
anything about it. Certainly in 2028 
spring will be warm, the sun will 
shine daytimes, all the rain will' fall 
at night,1 the wind will never be too 
blowy, and it will be impossible to go 
out without a coat only to get caught 
in u drenching rain blown about by a 
chilly east wind. The economic value 
of such weather control would be 
enormous. The faculty instructresses 
could wear their spring hats one, two, 
how many seasons? Such matters, 
however, Thistledown had better 
leave to Nathan Miller, .who takes all 
economics for his province. He awoke 
Thistledown one morning in an eightthirty from a sweet1 slumber while
The npr.'ds, the right attil.udo." If a. stu(je wlndl)(. aN out of sympathy with an In* 
pose; thll(.jor or |H fulling in a subject, the 
^ phe 00l|aiUonal remonstranco Is, You I 
uctccMfv'1 1 *,nvo 11,(1 ''tf*'1 latitude towards I There i course"or the person, as the 
rneale hiso may be. The phrase is usually j 
Ini mask for laziness, indifference, or 
lack of knowledge about student probj 
lems. It seldom falls to irritate the t 
student who is tired of hearing Its I 
frequent reiteration and It detracts 
from the effectiveness of any sound 
advice that may accompany It. The 
dilllculty seems to lie In the fact, that 
most Instructors are chosen for tlieir 
knowledge of a certain subject rather 
than for tlieir ability to teach.
In an article in the May Forum, 
Irwin Edman attacks the problem of 
the failure of students. A little re
flection will show that the situation 
stated in Mr. Edmans article is ap
plicable in a startling degree to our 
own campus. "A nervous breakdown, 
a sudden, erratic withdrawal frojoi 
college, or the ghastly melodrama of 
a suicide sometimes forces those in 
authority to recognize that here, in 
extreme form, are the elements of un
rest and unhappiness that In less ur
gent guise are facing most students.
The disorder of mind is attributed 
to disillusions and detachments which 
the student suffers upon coming to 
college. He is trying to become a 
self-sustaining adult in place of a 
dependent child. He is trying to sub
stitute standards of his own, as yet 
not found, for those imposed upon him 
by the milieu of the home. At the 
same time lie undergoes a moral and 
an intellectual awakening.
That the dawning of intelligence 
should'lead a youth to depression is 
natural. It is at college that he first, 
becomes acutely aware of the dis
crepancy between tilings as lie has 
boon taught roseately to boliove them, 
and things as ho finds them to be. He 
is shocked to recognize the difference 
between moral pretension and moral 
fact in society. He becomes aware 
that the commercial and social worlds, 
and even much of the educational 
world Into which he has entered, Is 
shoddyimposing to look at, but. 
erected upon a foundation of selfdeception and hypocrisy. Repressions 
arising out of habits and traditions 
from which he lias not. succeeded In 
freeing himself, are responsible for 
the innocent things he refrains from 
doing; and the cheap things that out 
of braggadocio, he does. All these 
causes make for the disintegration of 
Sersonality, and in extreme form they 
ad to nervous breakdown or suide.
imagination that comes from specula1 he was discussing a problem of extion on tills knowledge. c:i,in Public igerest, and ThistleModern education has devised expedown was dreaming of a pretty girl, 
dients which give free rein in a lar^e *lle isuiting blankness of expression 
latitude to the individual fancy. The W11 Thistledowns face amazed him. 
sense of community of interest amnnr 1 *iat^ uever thought, it possible that
many working in several fields lor a ! * histledown would fail to drink in 
common aim favors breadth and M^8 W01ds and fail to take advantage 
1IVcONS of the opportunities for social develBy position and composition, then, j opinent offered him. In his astonish-- 
the university is qualified and bound mont be referred to Thistledown as an 
to act as the medium of perpetuation i unrestrained, cocky go-getter with litof the union of knowledge and imag01 110 feeling for the public welinntlon. The legacy of the university. I farG tt snoring ignoramus carelessly 
the proof of a duty fullllled. is the m-rn |111,(1 haphazardly meandering through
As to the weather, 
hat It
.ranslate Into human terms t heir weldI (:iint he worse in Pittsburgh than it 
Ing of fact and fancy they will justify w,lH ,lle yA before, but every year 
themselves. Loss of the human equaj Fity the poor plebes, who have
tlon means failure.Harvard Crimson. | three or four more years of It.
---------------------- Thistledown hopes that his read-------------------------------------------------------y ers wore not in any way startled last
week when they discovered him on 
the twelfth page of a yellow Tartan. 
Thistledown's lame is so Avitle spread 
enough people buy the Tartan
.at. < e l/(^ jrito phrases to the student is j it contributes to every Held of human the social sciences. As to the weat 
' "'"O', rofnKO of ,1 apartaront etion. As .....g as unlveralo en!]  every yoar Thistledown thinks Ih;
Contribs
April 25, 1928.
Dear Thistledown:
I am a constant reader of your col
umn In the Tartan, but unless you 
change your subjects you are going 
to lose one faithful reader.
I Cant you talk about anything else 
except Hell-Week and llebo Regulatliat
now to make a twelve-page issue a 
finincini possibility. In fact, if Thisregulation. Thistledown would like to 
see all the freshmen under orders to 
remove their dinks and say how-doyou-do whenever they met a profes
sor, or even an instructor, on the 
campus. Thistledown doesnt suggest 
this to arouse school spirit, he would j 
like to have it happen just to make  
professors aware that there are such I 
things as plebes about this Institute, j 
Some one asked Thistledown the | 
other day if he was going to be a 
pusher in  the sweepstakes. Thistlej 
down isnt, unfortunately. There has I 
been so much excitement about the j 
race in his house though, that lie has i 
expected every night to find that part; 
of his bed had disappeared during 
the day to be used in building the 
buggy. And Thistledown might as 
well say here that lie hopes the tall 
Kiri who uses the library as an exhi
bition hall in which to chew her gum 
wont come to the race to watch his ; 
fraternity win it.
Thistledown understands that the | 
Squeak is assigning a special reporter j 
to him during Campus Week. Well, j 
Thistledown doesnt care. Let the rei 
porter see what he can see. Thistle: 
down will be as eager to read about | 
himself in the Squeak as anyone else, j 
Now that the final examination | 
schedule lias been posted Thistle
down is beginning to think that, its I 
too late to begin studying for them j 
anyway. Unless this arctic weather] 
continues, it ought to be too hot after j 
G. W. to do any studying. If the 
exams are going to be as hard as 
they usually are, theres no use in 
studying for them-,- for so many will 
'e flunked as a matter of course. Cer
tainly theres no need to study if the 
exams are going to be easy, for then 
they will be easy enough to pass with
out studying. So far as Thistledown 
can make out, there isnt, any use in 
studying for them.
Begging the pardon of the more 
literarily inclined contributors to this 
paper, we crave to indulge in an ob
servation or two apropos of the cen
tenary celebration of the birth of 
Henrik Ibsen. For he was the su
preme glory of the modern stage.
The bewhiskered Norwegian dra
matist burst upon an unsuspecting 
world with his quiver full of shafts 
that were to be shot directly into the 
heart of the decadent smugness of the 
social system of the nineties. The 
general tradition of the theater had 
made of the playhouse a place wiiere 
realities of life were treated roman
tically. You might emerge with the 
heart titillated gently and with a 
slight elevation of the senses but never 
with a spirit profoundly disturbed and 
aglow with the new significance of 
the social system in which you were 
immersed. He rubbed the color of 
life into his charactershe filled them 
out with the crude stuff of the daily 
concerns and he animated them with 
the passions aroused by the struggle 
between exceptionally fervid personal 
qualities and the traditional life of 
society.
No longer was it possible after his 
debut and no longer is it possible to
day to make romantic escape from the 
pressure of crude custom and institu
tions into the hothouse atmosphere of 
the stage. Ibsen at least was bold to 
re-emphasize the drama as the vehi
cle by which the injured, wounded, 
highly-strung individual might bare 
his cause to the mass, might revile 
and exhibit in its unfeeling angularity, 
the system of society which had so 
vitally crossed his purpose. The 
stage was not to be projected out and 
removed .from bitter experience of the 
home, the office, the market place in 
an atmosphere of emasculated, and 
perfumed albeit enticing unreality. 
It was to serve rather as the forum 
where art was to take up the cudgels 
for the artist. Within thfe great pow
er of the concentrated life of the stage, 
squeezed in between four walls and 
five acts, the irrepressible downtrod
den were to have their evening and 
their cause was to be heard.
And the tumult and the uproar 
which resulted! The play-goer and 
the critics alike stormed at this inter
loper who would not wipe his boots 
before treading the boards, and who 
would not register the inane senti
ments of the scribblers of the lap-dog 
variety who had forgotten their old 
street ways. This reaction was not 
unexpected, because the theater was 
turned by Ibsen from vacuum and 
refuge from religious, social and per
sonal problems into a medium by 
which these were to be illuminated 
by a strange new light. For those 
who refused to stare themselves in 
the face, this was certainly uncom
fortable experience.
There are many, of course, who ob
ject to the employment of the mate
rials of art for the exposition of a 
message or a problem of society. 
They fear that the didactic strain in| evitably cramps ones style. Les
sons should be confined to school and 
such places. The career and work of 
Ibsen like that of many another genius 
demonstrates unquestionably, how
ever, that the artist must mould, or 
paint, or play with the material at 
hand, in his environment. This is a 
necessary restriction to the play or 
the afflatus, however divine its sup
posed origin. In fact, the life of Ib
sen, and his work, so often throw out 
the suggestion that the artist is 
caught hand and foot in his social 
milieu and the symbolism he employs 
can never totally obscure this eternal 
dilemma.
In The Enemy of the People one 
is moved by the trenchant, piercing 
satire by which the compact ma
jority is exhibited in all its unfeeling 
stupid cowardice toward the man who 
stands alone. In The Dolls House, 
the petted ornamental wife arises 
with an insurgent fierceness that, 
(hard as it is to realize today), caused 
blushes to mount the cheeks of all 
middle-class burghers of that far-off 
day when Nora first slammed the door 
y of her home behind her and caused a 
[devastating draught to play through 
j the house where she had been kept.
Ibsen was more, however, than an 
embattled crusader for the tortured 
soul of the individual. These plays 
were like a barrage to level the way 
toward the freer working out of the 
artist in hi^ imperishable striving. 
They were to snap the bonds of cus
tom and allow him to move more 
freely. Thenceforward, one could re
veal the marvel of divine form and 
creative figures which throbbed with 
a more excellent design. Primarily, 
Ibsen will be thought of as the fire
brand who threw consternation into 
the ranks of those who would sit upon 
volcanoes and nurse secret vipers, 
and try to look pleasant. But yet, one 
comes away from a play like The 
Wild Duck, estranged from reality 
as though one had caught a glimpse 
of a purer, nobler arrangement of man 
and fate. If you could use a subtler 
medium, you might catch the sensible 
stirrings of life bereft of its casual en
cumbrances in the person of the 
characters on the stage.
Recently, Paul Valery, the French 
critic and writer discussed the fact 
that modern literature is losing its 
form and style and degenerating grad
ually into the undigestible pot-pourri 
of the newspaper. We care less for 
form and call for brevity and scien
tific precision, particularly, in our 
words and stories. This is regrettable, 
certainly. In our matter-oflfactness 
and speed, we are also liable to think 
of Ibsen now as fit subject matter for 
the sociologist or historian. With ali 
bis social intelligence, Ibsen does re
veal here and there the divine purity 
of form. Unfortunate for him how
ever, that most of his efforts were to 
be employed to the destruction of the 
impedimenta which stood so grossly 
in the path of his supreme artistry.
 NATHAN MILLER.
Class Offices in the various schools 
are obtained. The last election, of 
course, has brought, on this voice, not 
in protest against the men who were 
elected, but against the rank subtlons and to continually boast, of your ' ordination and intrigue employed durown hidden Identity. Neither you or j ini? the winning of those offices. 
I can dt> anything to change the presi Again 1 do not believe the 
out systems as they stand and there higher up who are responsible, but 
nre so many interesting subjects | some well-meaning friends who have 
which would be greatly appreciated j been blinded to the, or, in some inby the students. More of more subI stances, who have blinded themselves, 
jects. | to the idea that there is something
How about more tennis courts, free J much more important and elementary 
to the students, that is what they are ! than friendship in the choice of a 
for. Investigate the waiting to be 1 commander.
served in the grill with a longer wait Carlish would be a fitting man to 
for a table because some dear co-ed j call into the denunciation of such 
places her books on a table to reserve cliques for he was a man of virile 
it and the table is Idle for an hour I tongue, but this unequipped author 
while she waits in line. can only say bluntly and without any
This is only a suggestion and I hope ; apparent effect, that it is wrong, absoyou will consider it In the spirit it! lutely, to allow' such prejudices, 
was given. ! friendships and fraternal bonds to
UNBLUSHING CO-ED
DONS PETTICOAT AS
SHOE CLERKS STARE
AGED PAPER IS RELIC
COLLECTED BY AKRON MAN
\>
ns
tied
by
atron.
[rs. Ar 
Wat soi"
More power to you and keep up the 
good work. Your articles are greatly 
appreciated and looked forward to by 
the students.
Sincerely,
J. B.
Knock, Knock, Knock! Not 
occasional tapping heard at ones 
door, but the insistent rapping and 
drumming which is prevalent to the 
extent of being hoard and under
stood by the most reticent hero at 
school. We knock this and wo knock 
that and pride ourselves on bolng 
the first, one to think of each now 
criticism. That, In Itself, Is an error, 
but the fact, that there seems to be 
cause for each utterance that Is 
heard changes the aspect of affairs 
and puts a rather serious mien on an 
othorwlso bantering face.
It seems shameful that our 
school is in such condition as 
to call forth such contributions from 
both Advanced and Day Students as 
have appeared rather insistently In 
the various columns of the Tartan. 
The fact remains, however, that the 
cause remains, and where theres a 
cause, a result is inevitable. Now 
I must knock.
My subject is the method In which
creep into and dominate these cam
pus elections as they have these lasr. 
elections. Fraternity strife was badH 
apparent, while even the fair sex was 
; often called into action to sway the 
voting one way or another. This in! ter-fraternity and inter-clnb coippetithat j tion is not a brotherly contest, but a 
cut-throat; political scheme capable 
only of a Pittsburgh Primary. There 
is not one shred of square play or 
Carnegleism in the entire per
formance, but a greed and underhandedness that will bid fair to ruin 
the future good name of fraternities, 
both social and honorary. Perhaps 
Thistledown, in his search for topics 
of the day, may help mo in the car 
bon copy program against, any 
future repetition of this event.
M. B. M.
She said she needed it, so she put 
it 011.
How much is that petticoat? 
men j asked the co-ed as she dashed up to 
the bargain counter in one of Austins 
leading department stores shortly be
fore closing time.
Two ninety-eight, was the clerks 
reply.
Ill take it, and the bargain was 
closed as the co-ed took the cash from 
her vanity and handed it over.
There -was a pause and breathless 
suspense as the co-ed measured the 
pink silk to her form. The shoe clerks 
in the adjoining department stood 
with interested gaze's.
Apparently satisfied with the size, 
the fair one suddenly dropped i it to 
the floor and stepped quickly into the 
folds of the new-bought garment and 
adjusted it about her slim waist. A 
gasp of surprise brought the explana
tion, I needed it, so I just put it on! 
Two shoe clerks blushed, so it must 
have been an unusual scene.
Akron, Ohio.IP and The Buclie-1 
lite$12 REWARD. Absconded from 
her master a MULATTO WOMAN 
named DINA about 36 years of age. 
A good-looking, talkative woman, 
walks parrot-toed and rocks much in 
walking. It is supposed she will dress 
for disguise in a false cushion and 
a long hair braid.
For Sale. An elegant chair and 
horse with harness complete.
Ran away from the subscriber, an 
apprentice to the tailoring business, 
named Aaron Crosle, between 17 and 
IS years of age. He had on and took 
with him one dark grey coat and vest 
of the same with small pewter but
tons and new shoes and buckles.
The above advertisements were 
taken from the Philadelphia Ameri; 
can Daily Advertiser for January 8, 
1794. The original paper, together 
with several other newspapers of ven
erable age, are now in the office of 
Professor Raymond B. Pease, profes
sor of English. The papers are the 
property of Arthur Kruse of the Uni
versity of Akron.
In 1793 No Song No Supper, 
Wild Oats and The Primrose Girl 
were played at the Theatre in Phil
adelphia.
University of Washington.When 
he was bored with a reception which 
was being held in his honor at the 
University of Washington, Floyd Dell, 
modernist writer, skipped out and 
went, to a dance with two co-eds and 
a local reporter.
SCORES TEACHERS
FOR BAD RESULTS
College professors and Instructors 
were held responsible in a large ex
tent for the poor showing of many 
students by Dr. Smilev Blanton, pro
fessor of sociology at Vassar College, 
in a recent address at the University 
of Wisconsin.
"The do-your-work-or-get-out attitudp
taken by prosent day college faculties 
Is all wrong, Professor Blanton de
clared. About 2-9 per cent, of tlie 
students In college get poor marks 
because they are afraid to recite, 
afraid that they will make a mistake 
if they do. and when they graduate, 
they are unable to meet the emotional 
problems of life.
Ujider modern methods, faculties 
handle poor students by calling them 
Into a conference, telling them that 
they are really trying but end up by 
getting angry with them because they 
no not respond immediately, he 
stated. "The student is sent out of 
the room in no better condition than 
that in which he entered.
"Yesterday a sloop belonging to 
Capt Clark ran foul of a sloop belong
ing to Mr. Lent. The sloop had her 
bow stove in and her bowsprit lodged 
in the other sloop after which she 
went almost under water. The pas
sengers were all saved.
The advertisements appeared on the 
front page and the news was all on 
the inside pages. Among news was a 
report from Congress for a bill alter
ing the flag of the United States. A 
letter from President Washington to 
the House followed\
In the Ulster County Gazette, King
ton, N. Y., for January 4, 1800, on the 
second page, without a headline, the 
death of Washington is announced. 
Quarter-inch black column rules ard 
used on the inside pages.
The same paper gave an account of 
Washington funeral with a detailed 
report on the funeral procession.
Although the paper was published 
on January 4, there is some news la
beled October because "by the arrival 
of the factor from Falmouth, we are 
put in possession of London papers 
to the 20th of October, inclusive, from 
which we make the following selec
tions, And there follows accounts 
of the French Revolution with em
phasis on the executions.
MR. COOLI DGES WIT
SAVES HIM A SPEECH
Accepted Invitation Provided He 
Wouldnt Be Called UponHe 
Saw He Wasnt.
Washington.  President Coolidge 
accepts numerous invitations on con
dition he shall not be expected to 
speak. Now and then venturesome 
presiding officers, while technically 
observing the injunctions Mr. Cool
idge lays down, subtly suggests, in 
one way or another a few remarks 
would be more than welcome.
Not long ago the President attended 
a Founders Day celebration of the 
Carnegie Institute at Pittsburgh. It 
was understood by all concerned he 
would be on the platform during the 
exercises, but enact the role of Si
lent Cal.
The" president of the institute was 
addressing the anniversary audience. 
We are greatlv honored. he was sayine. "bv the presence in our midst 
of the President of the United States.
I have promised him that he would not 
be called upon to address us.
At that moment, Mr. Coolidge, sit
ting just behind him leaned over and 
said in a stage whisper, Yes, and 
Im going to help you keep that prom
ise!C. S. Monitor.
YALE MEN PREFER
PHI BETE KEY TO
UNIVERSITY LETTER
New Haven Conn. (By New Student 
Service)Seniors in Yale College, ac
cording to preferences indicated in 
the annual class vote, prefer a Phi 
Beta Kappa key to the Y earned in 
major sports, like Harvard next best to 
Yale, consider Lindbergh and Musso
lini the outstanding world figures of 
the day, and Lindbergh the man now 
living they most admire. They also 
believe that prohibition has harmed 
college life, that English is the most 
valuable subject and psychology the 
least valuable, and they are opposed 
to splitting the college into smaller 
units.
