Ciaran
Vol. X. No. 13CiarnD ercmDmbm Io dthrIsIngp lDmmcfbanhp lrrcgsirDiDecember 15, 1915
A MERRY CHRISTMAS!
NEWS Of THE 
BASKETBALL TEAM
Nichols, the New Coach, Helping 
Team. Whole Squad Hard at Work.
In order to reach as high a point 
as possible before the Christmas holi
days, when most of the fellows will 
be home tackling turkey, mince pie, 
etc., the basketball squad is indulging 
in unceasing efforts to more nearly 
perfect the machine that will repre
sent Tech in the first game against 
Westinghouse on January 8th at the 
Gym. A large squad of spirited can
didates is present every day to under
go the grind that develops the wind, 
the eye, and incidentally the team 
work.
Nichols Has Been on Floor.
Heinie Nichols of Southside fame 
and former coach of East Liberty Y. 
M. C. A., has been working with the 
team since last Tuesday. He started 
in by explaining some of the very 
fundamentals of the game, and while 
some of the candidates thought he 
took too much time at this, results 
were very soon apparent as the points 
began to roll up and the passing, 
shooting and general floor work took 
on the appearance of a real college 
aggregation that is going to meet Cor
nell, Colgate, Lehigh, State, Pitt, Al
legheny and other formidable oppon
ents. In addition to his undoubted 
knowledge of the game and his abil
ity to get the most and the best work 
out of the fellows there is a pleasant 
personality and a spirit that will soon 
enthuse all that come in touch with
Continued on Page 3
THE HIPPOLYTUS.
$250,000.00 FOR HEW ENTRANCE
MtN FOUNDATION MAKES AWARD
Along in October, 1912, the City 
Council had brought before it for 
approval, a bond issue of $180,000, 
representing a part of the sum re
quired with which to construct a 
bridge through Morewood avenue, 
tapping Forbes street and Woodland 
avenue, but when it came to a decis
ion, this bond issue failed. Previous 
attempts had been made to secure the 
necessary funds, but on each occas
ion the city government voted the 
measure down. Mayor Magee, at 
that time, took the position that the 
amount would be allowed, but the 
non-support of the councilmen shad
ed Techs hopes of ever getting the 
citys assistance in bearing a part of 
the expense involved in such a bene
ficial undertaking.
However, at a meeting of the board 
of trustees of the Carnegie Institute 
last week, Col. Samuel Harden 
Church, president, announced that the 
Carnegie Corporation of New York 
had appropriated $250,000 for the pur
chase of the John R. McGinley prop
erty and for its preparation as an 
entrance into the grounds of Tech. 
The property involves some four 
acres of ground and the old McGin
ley mansion and garage in Forbes 
street at the head of Morewood ave
nue. The arrangements are condi
tioned upon Mr. McGinleys contrib
uting $100,000 towards the purchase 
price. All this promises to provide 
a roadway which is soon to be devel
oped and now being surveyed by 
Professor Stanton of the Civil En
gineering Department, involving the 
studies of property utilization, estab
lishment of grades and a relocation 
of the McGinley home and garage.
All these buildings and plans are 
to be laid out by Mr. Hornbostel. 
Shortly, the city government will be 
approached as to whether it desires to 
make this roadway a public park en
trance, in which event the trustees 
will open it as a street. However, 
Continued on Page 8
SECOND SCIENCE SMOKER HAS 
FINE PROGRAM.
CORNELL ADDED TO FOOT 
BALL SCHEDULE.
A Very Successful Performance.
The pathetic tragedy of Hippolytus 
by the ancient Greek dramatist Euripidies was very successfully given on 
last Friday evening by the students of 
the Dramatic Arts Department. It 
was the initial performance and was 
witnessed by a very appreciative au
dience. The Hippolytus was special
ly remarkable as the first great drama 
written on the subject of tragi^ or 
unhappy love, a theme which has been 
so extraordinary fruitful on the modContinued on Page 4
Moderate Crowd at Plebes Social De
but.Snappy Evening Full of 
Movies, Music, Talks, and 
Contests.
The Second Science Smoker was 
given to the upper classmen by Class 
of 1919 on last Saturday evening in 
Carnegie Union. From 8:00 until 
11:00 there was not a dull moment, 
and those present will all agree that 
it was the best smoker a Plebe class 
ever gave.
The Plebes have a lot of pep this 
year, and their social committee is 
right on the job. E. A. Butts, chair
man of the reception committee, to
gether with Paffenbach, president of 
the class, and the other section rep
resentatives, Aspinwall, Bradshaw, 
Griener, Kutz, Hoban, Melville, Pridder, Travis, and Young, put a lot of 
work into the arrangements, and de
serve a lot of commendation.
The affair, unfortunately, was poorContinued on Page 7
A Feature for Next Season.
Rest of Schedule Assuming Interest
ing Attributes.
We have had the excellent fortune 
to obtain a game with Cornell for 
the next foot-ball season. This is an 
excellent opportunity for Tech to 
show the quality of its athletics as 
compared to older schools of the trad
itional East and we are all confident 
that the opportunity will be made 
good use of and the team will return 
from Ithaca next year with a high 
standing for athletic ability and sterl
ing sportsmanship. The rest of the 
schedule will prove equally interest
ing and graduate manager Gearhart 
is hard at work over it.
With the excellent material that 
was uncovered this year, the added 
benefit of Coach Steffens continued 
work and the new material that is 
bound to be attracted by this seasons
Continued on Page 8
Elaborate Program Insures Excellent 
TimeEvery Tech Student 
Invited.
Plans are just about completed for 
the big party to be held on Thursday, 
December 16th, both afternoon and 
evening. It has been designated as 
the Christmas Festival of Londontown, keeping in mind the early Eng
lish ideas of customs and dress. The 
whole third floor will be used for the 
entertainment, and will be completely 
filled with evergreen and laurel. Each 
department will have a booth where 
articles, made by the members of that 
department will be for sale. It is 
promised that many original and at
tractive things will be offered, suit
able for Christmas gifts. It is the first 
time any opportunity has been given 
to guests to purchase articles made in 
the school.
One end of the hall will be screened 
off and made to resemble an old Eng
lish Inn. Small tables and costumed 
waitresses will add to the attractive
ness of the picture. There, one may 
order home-made mince pie, English 
plum pudding, coffee and ice cream.
During the course of the evening, 
the Dramatic Club will present a mir
acle play by Lady Gregory, entitled 
The Traveling Man. There are 
three in the caste: Helen Senn, the 
traveling man; Constance Stout, the 
cheers. Miss Stoner has kindly con
sented to write the manuscript for 
this. The appearance of this book 
will fill a long-felt want of every girl
Continued from Page 4
FOOTBALL RECEPTION 
TONIGHT.
Awarding of Letters To Be Accom
panied With Music and Dancing.
Coach Steffen Will Be 
Present.
Tonight at 7:45 in the Design 
School Theater the football men will 
be given a reception by the Tech stu
dent body. This is a new thing here, 
but it is no doubt an affair which will 
now become an annual event.
Coach Steffen has arranged to make 
a special trip from Chicago in order 
to attend and be able to see his men
Continued on Page 5

---------------------------------------------------

lye Sarta2
Vol. Partait
Published every Wednesday by^ undergraduates of the Carnegie Institute of Technology.
Entered in the post office of Pittsburgh as second class matter.
SUBSCRIPTION RATES. Yearly $1.50. Canada $1.75.5c the copy.
Editor fin-ChiefHarold Lr. Heilman, 16.Phone Schenley 9022-J. 
Managing Editor Edgar Hamilton, 17.
News Editor A. M. Staehle, 17.
Athletic Editor Charles H. Meredith.
Art Editor A. Brady McSwigan, 17.
Editors C. P. Peters, 16.P. N. Bossart, 16 Geo. A. Cook, 18Marguerite Menges, 16M. J. Wohlgemuth, 16. 
Associate Editors W. M. Swan, 18. R. E. Vernon, 18.Beatrice E. Heinrich, 18.J. R. Hoxworth, 17. Sue Smith, 17.
The Editor-in-Chief is responsible for the policy of this paper, the Managing Editor for the make-up.Ail news items should be in Tartan boxes in the various buildings or in the student mail by Monday noon.The Tartan welcomes all communications of student interest if signed, the signature will be withheld if desired.
Business ManagerArch H. Cowan. 
Circulation Manager R. M. Battey, 18. 
Advertising ManagerA. J. Walker, 18.
All business communications should be sent to the Business Manager.Any delay in delivery of this paper or change of address should be reported to the Business Manager at once.______
PITTSBURGH PA., DEC. 15, 1915
EDITORIAL............................................
NIGHT MEN AND THE SOCIAL 
SIDE OF SCHOOL LIFE.
Is the game worth the candle? 
Even the most ambitious of the stu
dents attending Night School asks 
himself this question in his periods of 
dejection. Those periods are the 
more frequent on account of his fail
ure to rightly decide his attitude 
towards the social side of school life. 
Many opportunities are offered him 
for relaxation, in the way of smokers, 
dances, etc., but of these he usually 
fails to avail himself.
A continual grind gives him the ap
pearance of a man with a grudge 
against the world and himself, and his 
ambition cuts its own throat. The 
usual reason offered for absence is 
that of lack of time, but since some 
men can arrange the details of these 
gatherings as well as give the time 
to attend and enjoy them, there seems 
to be little validity in the excuse. At
tendance at these functions would add 
zest to his work, he would accomplish 
more, and, perhaps most important, 
his recollections of school life, when 
he looks back over a long period of 
years, will be recollections worth 
cherishingrecollections of honest 
endeavor, and of pleasant evenings 
spent with good fellows, whom, on 
account of such evenings, he knew 
well.
All arguments point to the desira
bility of the attendance of every Night 
Student to every social event for 
which he is eligible, and a strong plea 
is put forward to Night School men
to carefully consider this question.
The Fourth Year men of the Night 
Science School are showing a good 
example. W. F. McMichaels, their 
representative on the Junior Prom 
committee, is working hard, and a 
strong representation is expected 
when the date of the Prom comes 
around. Many of them have, from 
lack of practice, lost some of their 
quondam efficiency in the terpsichorean art, but all are determined to 
enjoy the evening better than they 
know how.
THE M. M. C. S. BAZAAR.
Some one was heard to remark the 
other evening that as far as the fel
lows were concerned the schools 
stopped at the Design building and 
in the past we believe that this has 
been the sad truth. Co-operation with 
the M. M. C. S. in any of our activi
ties or athletics has been absent, total
ly and distinctly missing. The girls 
have been left to support their own 
endeavors without any material help 
from the male portion of the other 
schools.
Now this institution can never reach 
the height of its possibilities unless 
all four schools work together and 
pull together. Each has a definite 
mission in life and they all co-ordinate 
to a very great extent. There is no 
reason why the girls should be left 
out of our activities nor we from 
theirs. Each needs and merits the 
support of the other.
Next Thursday night M. M. C. S. 
is staging their annual Christmas ba
zaar, grander and better than ever. 
We urge and ask each man to make 
it a point to visit that school on this 
day. The popular idea is that you are 
wanted only if you will open up your 
purse. This is distinctly not the case. 
If each man would go over and spend 
only fifteen cents, they would be sold 
out before evening. Your presence 
with or without money is what they 
wish.
Now here is a chance for everyone 
to do a good turn. The girls have 
pledged over $300 this year to charity 
and are working hard to attain that 
end. It will be impossible without the 
help of the other schools and we feel 
that these should measure up to what 
is expected of them. Go over, enjoy a 
general good time, help the cause ma
terially if you can. They will see that 
you feel at home, so do not miss this 
excellent chance to get acquainted 
and so well acquainted that you will 
in the future feel that the M. M. C. S. 
is not an unknown part of C. I. T.
THE BRIDGE.
The long-sought-for bridge con
necting the Tech buildings with 
Forbes street is soon to be a part of 
the unit composing the institute 
group and just what that means to 
those of us who have to walk over the 
old Schenley bridge may fully realize, 
particularly in such weather as this. 
The attempt to get the city authori
ties to give their support toward its 
construction, has thus far proved 
fruitless and we can indeed express 
our sincerest thanks to the Carnegie
Corporation for its kindness in mak
ing a cherished hope materialize with
out the assistance of the local gov
ernment.
YALE DESIRES GAME.
Two Dates Offered for Next Fall.
Just as the paper goes to press, 
Graduate Manager Gearhart announc
ed that a telegram had been received 
from the football management at 
Yale University offering us the choice 
of two dates next fall at New Haven. 
These are Friday, October 20th, or 
Saturday, September 30th. Only the 
former would be possible but it is 
not known as yet whether we will be 
able to accept it or not. Further par
ticulars will be published in the next 
issue.
ORDER AT THE DORMS.
The two following letters were both 
received this week, one from a dorm
er and one from an unfortunate 
neighbor, and deal with a condition 
at the dorms which certainly should 
not be allowed to continue. We would 
recommend to the governing board of 
the dormitories that, if the conduct of 
their members is such as to infringe 
on the rights of other dorm residents 
and worse, on the neighbors, decisive 
steps be taken at once to prevent the 
further infliction of these nuisances 
among their members upon the suf
fering neighborhood.
Editor of the Tartan:
I feel that this short appeal from an 
unfortunate neighbor of the Tech 
dorms cannot be postponed any longer 
and ask that you give it space in your 
columns.
Two weeks ago there appeared in 
the Tartan an article dwelling on the 
success of the self-government scheme 
instituted at the dormitories. To read 
the account and looking over the var
ious officials and committees appoint
ed, which in number reminded one of 
the commissions of our respected 
congress and legislature, it would be 
thought that every need of every 
dormer would be taken care of for 
the year and that all would dwell in 
peace and felicity. It seemed to be an 
excellent type of a true democracy as 
every man must have had an active 
share in one of the committees.
However, all hopes of a year of 
quiet and peace have been rudely shat
tered. Nights seem to be taken by 
the students as a time for roughhouse, 
and not only on Friday or Saturday 
but every night. Cat calls and cheers 
are continually floating across the 
court yard. Delicate harmony is prev
alent, even until the small hours of 
the morning so that sleep is impos
sible to anyone within a block. Songs 
and jokes of doubtful shading are fre
quently heard, probably for the delec
tation of the night girls passing by or 
the ladies living in the neighborhood. 
Every delegation that returns from 
downtown or Oakland seems to de
sire to announce the lateness of their 
arrival by as loud cheering and sing
ing as possible during their progress 
along the whole length of Woodlawn 
avenue.
It is felt that only a small portion 
of the students may be responsible, 
but they certainly place a stigma on 
the whole group.
Now that something should be done 
is evident, especially before the suf
fering neighbors call a mass meeting. 
Whether these blooded sports resident 
there consider that their manner of 
living is the ideal of college 
life is not known but they 
certainly shine as classic exam
ples of the heights of assininity and 
make themselves ridiculous to all ser
ious minded people, not considering 
the lack of good breeding and of con
siderations for others comfort also 
shown. We wonder if the studious and 
serious men in the dormitories are in 
such a small minority as to be unable 
to demand better conditions. And 
finally, we hesitate to prophecy the 
exact figures of the death toll when 
mid-semester exams are over, but 
shudder, brother, shudder, twill be 
an awful carnage.
A Suffering Neighbor.
Editor The Tartan:
The beginning of this semester saw 
the first installation of mens dormi
tories at Carnegie. A Dorm, club 
was formed, rules made, and the men 
put on their own responsibility.
At the beginning there were only 
occasional demonstrations of rowdy
ism, but these exhibitions have in
creased with surprising rapidity as 
the weeks have gone by. Loud pro
fanity is a general occurrance while 
here and there risque pictures are 
chalked on the walls which makes it 
impossible to show friends through 
the buildings. Consistent study is im
possible any evening as one is liable 
to be disturbed at any time by some 
one or many howling out the window, 
running around the corridors,or bang
ing on the radiators. As much dis
turbance occurres on Sunday as on 
any other daythe hilarities started 
on Saturday evening continue far into 
the following morning.
We fear a spirit is being developed 
which, if allowed to advance from one 
stage to another, will eventually prove 
fatal to the hopes of those whose ef
forts are responsible for dormitories 
being established in this institution. 
Some few of the Dorm men, however, 
wish to see the Dorm life develop in
to something more to be admired. 
We believe that a solution should be 
found without the aid of outside as
sistance but are ready to demand the 
latter if it is necessary in order that 
each man have the right to live quietly 
and studiously if he so desires, and 
not have his feelings offended nor his 
time encroached upon by others.
Another Dormer.
NEW YORK CLUB.
The following men have been se
lected to make arrangements for ban
quets to be held in their vicinity dur
ing the Christmas holidays. See them 
for further information as to date, etc.
New York City ...................................
..................Ed. Baker, Jr. Mech. irr.
Buffalo.............Wm. Morley, Jr. Elect.
Hornell-----C. F. Hofstetter, Jr. Elect.
Schenectady.. F. Murphy, Upper Ind.
Olean........L. T. Barry, Soph. Comm.
Jamestown..M. Swanson, Midd. Ind.

---------------------------------------------------

Ott}? ariatt3
preparedness!
No, were not going to pull any deep stuff as to the advisability of Uncle 
Sam carrying a gun or not, but we have a word to say about clothes 
preparedness. 
With the Christmas season advancing in double quick time, dont you 
think youd better court martial that relic you call a Dress Suit? Better drop 
in and see our Evening Clothes and Accessorieswe know that we can 
satisfy both your idea of correctness and your purse.
BOGGS & BUHL
True
Values
When Good Fellows Get Together
You will find fresh-rolled cigarettes of deliciously 
mellow Bull Durham in evidence at banquets, club 
smokers and other social gatherings of men of wealth, 
prominence and experienced tastes. In the fragrant 
smoke of this mild, delightful tobacco formality gives 
way to congenial good-fellowship. If you would be 
fashionable, expert in the company of connoisseurs, 
j'ou roll your own  and your tobacco is Bull 
Durham.
GENUINENEWW SEOfTH
SMOKING TOBACCO
To millions of experienced smokers there is no other 
tobacco fragrance comparable to the wonderful, unique, 
mellow-sweet flavor of Bull Durhamno other cigarettes 
so fresh, tacty and satisfying as A^k ^ Truu
those they roll for themselves package of' 4paper 9*9
with this golden-brown, bright u>ith each 5c ck.
Virginia-North Carolin n tobacco.
Roll a Bull Durham ciga
rette todayyou will experience 
a distinctive form of tobacco 
enjoyment.
An Illustrated Booklet, 
r |\ I* I* showing correct A l\ULl way to Roll Y our 
Own Cigarettes, and a package of cigarette papers, will both be mailed, free, to any address in U. S. on request. Address Bull Durham, Durham, N. C.
Room 1400.
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO CO.
A MERYCRE
DURHAM
liSSt]
s' '3 Smokmg'Tabacco,!r? vrr.BiACti'w'sti "1
lllll nil. mJ
NEWS OF BASKETBALL TEAM
Continued from Page 1 
his activities and the name of Tech 
will again be on the rise. While we 
are not aware as to whether he has 
been definitely contracted for or not, 
we know that the impression that he 
has made on all that have watched 
him work is most favorable and leaves 
little to be desired.
Ammerman Deserving of Credit. 
Ammerman, this years manager, 
is to be given deserved credit for his 
activities in arranging the schedule 
and the general care of the man
agerial end of the activities connected 
with a basketball team. The schedule 
is the best that we have ever had and 
will attract large crowds to every 
game, giving him the added task of 
preparing to take care of them all. 
A good manager is indispensable to a 
team and Ammerman is certainly ful
filling all his obligations and aiding 
matters in a very satisfactory manner.
Captain Hines Starring.
The all-around play of Captain 
Pick Hines is one of the bright 
spots of the work this far. His guard
ing is infallible and he can always be 
relied upon for doing some big scor
ing. Tumpane is likewise showing 
excellent form and will also join the 
stellar role. Henning is playing fast 
and adding to his assets in no small 
degree. Meredith, after hard work 
all last week, is again rounding into 
form and looks a little more like 
Varsity material. Lewis has proven 
to be one of the most likely contend
ers for the other forward position but 
is pressed hard by Finlay, Slater, Rob
inson, Green and others. Converse is 
doing very well at center and is to be 
reckoned with. Craig and Holzworth 
are likewise makingimpressions in 
everything they go up against. Large 
crowds of impatient enthusiasts as
semble in the Gym. to watch the prac
tices and are undoubtedly interested 
by the turn of affairs and the spirited 
contests that are making for one of 
Techs big teams.
Y. M. C. A. MEETING.
Constitution Referred Back to Com
mittee.
Last Sundays Y. M. C. A. meeting 
like the preceding one, had in store a 
great surprise. J. B. Caruthers, State 
Secretary of The Pennsylvania Y. M. 
C. A., and T. J. Gillespie, a member 
of the Executive Committee, were 
both present and gave much helpful 
advice on the making of a constitu
tion. Both men expressed general 
satisfaction concerning the constitu
tion which has been formed but due 
to a few sections which will have to 
be changed the constitution will nec
essarily have to be revised before it 
will comply with the standard Y. M. 
C. A. requirements. All of those fel
lows who were present expressed their 
desire to see this change brought 
about and as a result the constitution 
has been referred back to the commit
tee which formed it. Further discus
sion and adoption will probably come 
soon after the holidays.
Thistle Needs Dope
HUGH T. KERR, D.D., DELIVERS 
SERMON.
Shadyside Presbyterian Church Host 
On Tech Night.
Approximately two hundred and 
fifty students accepted the invitation 
extended by the Invitation Commit
tee on Mens Work and attended the 
service especially arranged for them 
at Shadyside Presbyterian Church 
last Sunday evening.
The sermon was delivered by the 
Pastor, Hugh Thomson Kerr, D.D., 
who used for his text Exodus, the six
teenth chapter, verses thirteen to thirty-one. Hearing him preach was a 
rare treat and will long be remem
bered by those Tech students who 
were fortunate enough to attend. He 
defined religion as the deepest thing 
in a mans life and spoke of* its vital 
importance in everything we do; how 
little we can get along without it. As 
an example of the miraculous power 
of religion Doctor Kerr mentioned the 
fact that the deaf and blind Helen 
Keller, when first informed of the 
Christian religion and asked if she 
did not believe in a God, said Yes, 
Ive believed in Him for a long time 
but I never knew what you called Him 
before.
Previous to the sermon the Alma 
Mater was sung and never before did 
anything sound better than those two 
hundred and fifty voices raised in 
song.
Especially well decorated for the 
occasion was the pulpit about which 
was wrapped a Carnegie banner with 
an American flag draped above it.
After the service Doctor Kerr 
shook hands with each student, boy 
and girl, for the Margaret Morrison 
School was by no means unrepresent
ed. All were cordially invited to come 
back again and from the treatment 
each received and the interest in the 
sermon I think that almost every man 
present will surely return to hear Dr. 
Kerr very soon.
SIGMA RHO DANCE.
The Sigma Rho Fraternity held 
their annual dance last Friday even
ing at Hotel Schenley ball room. 
Quite a number were present, there 
being many out-of-town guests. 
Among the guests were Dean and 
Mrs. J. H. Leete, Director A. A. 
Hamerschlag, Mr. and Mrs. Henry 
Hornbostel, Mrs. Gardner, of New 
York, Prof. and Mrs. Crabtree, Prof. 
and Mrs. Keller, Prof. and Mrs. 
Doyle, Bertram Weber, Miss Alice 
Keith, of Beaumont, Texas, and Miss 
Helene DePre, of Michigan. There 
were representatives from the other 
fraternities present. Sigma Rho claims 
it to be one of the most successful 
dances they have held.
An informal tea was enjoyed at the 
Beta Theta Epsilon House last Sun
day evening by members of the fra
ternity and their guests. Mrs. Ralph 
Holmes presided at the pouring of the 
tea in a most delightful manner and 
added greatly to the pleasure of those
present. Several alumni were in at
tendance and expressed their pleasure 
in the gathering.
Mr. Witter Bynner, a former editor 
of the Munsey. entertained the Sig
ma Tau Fraternity by reading one of 
his plays: The Dolphon and recit
ing several Irish poems. Great charm 
was added to the evening by short 
selections on the piano as well as 
several humorous songs.
STEEN AWARDED HANDSOME GIFT.
Prof. Stevens, of the Dramatic Department, announced Tuesday that A friei.d of the Institution had donated to Turk Steen the sum of $100 for his meritorious and faithful work in the Department of Drama. The money is to be used by Mr. Steen on a trip to New York City in order to acquaint himself with the modern drama as exemplified there and also to take a complete rest, probably by 
the ocean at Atlantic City.

---------------------------------------------------

4Nic. Sartan
M. M. C. S. NEWS
DORM. TEA.
Miss Collingwood held her regular 
second Sunday of the month tea last 
Sunday at 325 Morewood avenue. A 
large crowd attended.
STUDENT ASSEMBLY.
Student Assembly was held last 
Tuesday. Several announcements 
were made, the chief one of which 
being in regard to the practicing of 
Christmas carols. These are to be 
sung by the girls of the Choral Club 
on the night of our big Christmas 
festival. Practice was held in the 
recreation room on Thursday and 
Friday noons of last week and Mon
day, Tuesday and Wednesday of this 
week.
Margaret Wirth and Mary Ride, our 
two delegates to the Student Govern
ment convention held at Western Re
serve this year, spoke concerning 
their trip. Miss Wirth, the Junior 
delegate, told us all about the social 
side of the convention and Miss Ride, 
the Senior delegate and president of 
our student government association, 
told us all about the business side 
the school problems discussed, etc.
REGULAR WEEKLY ASSEMBLY.
Dean Breed took charge of the reg
ular assembly last week. Her first 
announcement was of the good for
tune which had befallen us in the form 
of the purchase and impending re
moval of the McKinley house and the 
building of our new street through 
from Morewood avenue.
She then read an interesting letter 
from Mr. Day and showed the girls a 
Halifax newspaper in which his pic
ture was shown and the names of all 
the men who have enlisted under him 
were given. Mr. Day said that a box 
of trinkets from the girls would be 
very acceptable if they cared to send 
one. But Miss Breed thinks that, 
since there is a movement on foot 
toward socks, it would be best to 
send them first to keep up our repu
tation. Anyone who would like to 
give Mr. Days soldiers a pair of socks 
please bring them this week.
Miss Breed then turned the meeting 
over to Miss Sanford, who made sev
eral announcements about the festi
valcostumes, calendars, etc. The 
calendars will probably be on sale be
fore Thursday. They will be goodlooking and a good investment. You 
will wrant to give some gifts which will 
represent your school and these are 
the very things.
COLLEGE NIGHT CELEBRATED.
Monday night, December 6th, was 
celebrated as College Night under the 
auspices of the College Club of Pitts
burgh. The entire Nixon Theater 
was bought over for the evening and 
representatives from many of the 
leading colleges were present. The 
attraction offered was Miss Maude
Adams in The Little Minister, 
which fact in itself was enough to 
draw a large crowd. In fact, every 
seat in the theater was occupied, 
blocks of seats being reserved for each 
college.
Between the acts, the different 
schools vied with each other in sing
ing college songs and cheers. There 
was plenty of college spirit; one could 
not help feeling enthusiastic and anx
ious to do the very best possible. Ow
ing to a separation of the Margaret 
Morrison girls into two blocks on dif
ferent sides of the house, perhaps our 
singing of Dear Old Carnegie was 
not as well as we have done in our 
own Assembly Room. Nevertheless, 
we did the best possible under the 
circumstances so there need be no 
cause for regrets. It is positive that 
all the girls present last Monday will 
be sure of going again next year, if 
the affair becomes an annual one, as 
is intended; and those girls who 
missed it will also be there to prove 
the glowing accounts brought home 
by the fortunate ones.
The proceeds of College Night are 
for the benefit of the Collegiate Vo
cational Bureau which was organized 
by the club in July, 1915. So far over 
three hundred women Taave sought the 
help of this Bureau, and its services 
are not limited to college graduates 
by any means. It aims to supply girls 
having all types of preparation with 
just the kind of position she is fitted 
for. The object is in itself a very 
worthy one and one which anyone 
may be called upon to make use of.
LECTURER IN COMMUNITY 
LIFE.
The lecturer this week in Commun
ity Life was Mr. Ashe, head of the 
Playgrounds of Pittsburgh. He gave 
a most interesting talk concerning the 
organization, necessary equipment, 
and the necessary characteristics of a 
playground leader. Through Mr. 
Ashes great amount of experience, 
we feel he is quite competent to judge 
and give advice to beginners. He 
also discussed the solution to some 
of the problems which would be like
ly to come up. The whole talk was 
one of practical value and help to So
cial Science workers.
SORORITY NEWS.
Theta Sigma entertained some outof-town guests at dinner at the Fort 
Pitt Hotel on Friday, and on Satur
day at a luncheon at McCreerys, fol
lowed by a theater party at the Nixon. 
In the evening, the alumnae enter
tained at cards; the pnzes, which were 
roses, were won by Miss Waring, one 
of the guests, and by Miss Helen Hilleary.
BUILDING CONSTRUCTION 
CLUB.
A Building Construction Club was 
recently organized in the Industrial 
School with the following officers: L. 
M. Robinson, President; E. Loeffler, 
Vice President; C. R. Yeager, Secretary-Treasurer. Such a club is need
ed in the school, and the latter organ
ization will no doubt promote interest 
in the course, and co-operation among 
the students.
THE H1PP0LYTUS
Continued from Page 1 
ern stage. It was first written about 
450 B. C. and called for very heavy 
and intense acting.
Mary Blair, playing in the role of 
Phaedra, was exceptionally clever in 
her interpretation. Her work was 
very heavy and called for exceeding 
cleverness on her part.
Eula N. Guy, cast in the role of the 
nurse, showed her exceptional ability 
by carrying her part in her usual un
erring way.
Charles Meredith, as Hippolytus, 
whose stalwart figure 'easily makes 
him a leading character, was well cast 
when given this part, as his fine work 
completed the necessary require
ments.
The part of Theseus, taken by Nor
wood Engle, was a difficult one in
deed, but was well represented by 
this clever student.
Arleigh B. Williamson, playing the 
part of a henchman, was remarkably 
artistic in his description of the acci
dent which had befallen Hippolytus. 
His work is always highly appreci
ated.
Considering the extreme heaviness 
which prevailed throughout the en
tire tragedy, the play as a whole was 
a splendid success, and the entire cast 
deserve worthy mention. Perhaps the 
players would be interested in know
ing that their evenings work was wit
nessed by a committee who represent 
the French government, who are be
ing entertained as guests of the Board 
of Trade.
THE CAST: 
DRAMATIS PERSONAE.
Aphrodite ....................Esther Fromme
Hippolytus ................Charles Meredith
An Old Huntsman... .Harold Barnes
Phaedra .................................Mary Blair
The Nurse...........................Eula N. Guy
Theseus ..................Norwood J. Engle
A Henchman. .Arleigh B. Williamson
Artemis .........................Inez M. Krebs
Chorus of Huntsmen
First Voice....................John S. Cather
Second Voice.. .Hubbard Kirkpatrick
Chorus of the Women of Trozen 
Leader of the Chorus... Lucy Barton
First Voice.....................Katherine Jones
Second Voice... Marguerite Bollinger 
Third Voice... .Violante L. Bollinger
Fourth Voice.....................Mary Ricards
Fifth Voice.........................Olive Moore
Huntsmen, Vassals to Theseus, 
Attendants on Phaedra, etc. 
Scene: The Courtyard of Theseus
Castle at Trozen.
Scenery designed by J. Woodman 
Thompson.
CHRISTMAS FESTIVAL
Continued from Page 1 
mother; and Jean Barr, the child. The 
girls are working hard under the di
rection of Miss Demarest, and the 
play promises to be a big success.
After the play, the Athletic Asso
ciation will present several folk dances 
in costume under the direction of Miss 
Stoner, head of the Department of 
Physical Training.
The Student Government Associa
tion is arranging for the publication of 
a book of M. M. C. S. songs and 
in school and it behooves every girl
NOBODY WANTS A 
CHRISTMAS DINNER
better than the one you can get 
for one dollar at the
Monongahela House
Reserve tables early for New Years 
Eve Supper 
European Plan 
J. B. KELLEY, Manager 
Smithfield and Water Sts., Pittsburgh
Schenck China Co.
CHINA, GLASS, SILVERWARE 
FOR HOTELS. RESTAURANTS AND 
INSTITUTIONS
Special Decorations our Speciality 
432 PENN AVENUE
BAKLMM $OAfM25OT2
WM. F. DIEHL, Design School
Violinist. Exceptionally good music 
for dances and receptions
CHOCOLATES
OUR MESSENGER
W. O. BRECKON
STUDIOS
Forbes and Atwood Streets 
Phones 1603161 Schenley 
Special Prices to Tech Students
ANDREW G. WIRTH
BOOKBINDING
Binding of Magazines and Rebinding 
of Books a Specialty
109-111 Federal Street, Northside
to get one who has any feeling of 
loyalty for her Alma Mater.
A most cordial invitation is hereby 
extended to all Techites and their 
friends to attend this festival given 
by the Margaret Morrison girls. They 
especially want to thank the men in 
charge of the dance and awarding of 
sweaters which is to occur Wednes
day night for so chivalrously giving 
up their former plans which were for 
Thursday and changing them to Wed
nesday. It is an act of courtesy which 
the girls of Margaret Morrison will 
not soon forget.

---------------------------------------------------

fj* artatt5
NIGHT PREP. SMOKER.
The Night Preparatory Class will 
hold a smoker in Carnegie Union, De
cember 17, 1915. Dean Connelly is 
to be present and will give an inter
esting talk. The Tech Musical Club 
will render several selections. Mr. 
Howard Hoffmann, also, will be on 
the program. The evening promises 
to be one that you shall not forget.
APPLIED INDUSTRIES.
An appeal goes right out at the 
head of this column today to candi
dates for the successor next year to 
the present editor of the Industries 
column. Thus far, and for the past 
two years, the work in bringing to 
the readers of Applied Industries 
notes the various activities concern
ing the school, has been more or less 
a one-man job, and, in order to as
sure prominence in the Tartan of the 
doings of Industries men, several stu
dents with writing ability should 
make their candidacy knownnot 
merely a verbal willingness but a wil
lingness signalized by the production 
of articles fit for print.
Last year and the year before, the 
class of 1916 won the inter-class ath
letic meet for the Connelley Trophy. 
This year the contest is to be waged 
again but it might be well for the 
club room committee to get on the 
job and see to it that the winners for 
last year have their class numerals 
engraved before waiting too long.
At the Assembly last week, the 
president outlined the necessity of In
dustries men getting berths in all of 
the recognized activities. We simply 
must do our share if we are to con
sider ourselves in the running. The 
football situation, though not gener
ally known, is one of manifest im
portance to Industries students and 
we await eagerly the developments. 
The position of assistant advertising 
manager is one which is competed 
for by all schools. Several men in 
the printing department have had ad
vertising experience and it might be 
well for them to apply immediately. 
Garber is the manager this year.
The Thistle pictures are now being 
taken of all classes and club groups. 
Incidentally, numerous pictures have 
been taken about our scliool, humor
ous and otherwise, all of which would 
be greatly welcomed by the Thistle 
Board.
Sunday night was Tech night at the 
Shadyside Presbyterian Church and 
many Industries students were on 
hand. We believe, the religious phase 
of our schooling is wholly insufficient 
but the intense interest in the student 
body which neighboring ministers 
have in us compensates.
The Plebes are planning to give all 
upperclassmen a smoker of some kind 
which recalls to mind the splendid 
effort last years initial class gave us 
in rounding out a splendid imitation 
of Student Assembly procedure. Ma
guire, who spent a few days with us
last week, arranged the affair, and we 
only hope the new Plebes will, if they 
have any latent talent, bring them
selves to the fore as successfully as 
did the class of 1917.
It is rather a late date to remark 
about it, but those of us who remem
ber Dean Connelleys secretary last 
year will, no doubt, be pleasantly sur
prised to learn that Miss Lindsey is 
now Mrs. Ralph Young.
Any number of our students have 
obtained employment for the holidays. 
If you are looking for work, be sure 
and see Mr. Murphy or Mr. Beeken 
of the Student Aid Department.
A Merry Xmasand come back for 
a bigger and better S. A. I. in 1916.
The lower and middle classes were 
photographed for The Thistle last 
Wednesday, during the Assembly 
hour.
Dean Connelley spoke at the Science-Design Alumni luncheon, at the 
Fort Pitt Hotel last Wednesday.
The smoker, which the Plebes had 
planned to tender the upper and mid
dle classes and Faculty in Carnegie 
Union tonight, has been postponed 
until Friday evening, January 7th.
Baldy Coulter returned to school 
last week, after having been called 
home, owing to the sudden death of 
his brother. Our deepest sympathies 
go out to you, Baldy.
A number of members of The Avo 
Club visited Ray Catherman, at the 
West Penn Hospital last Sunday aft
ernoon. Catherman is the Allegheny 
College student, who was injured in 
a fall from the grandstand during the 
Tech-Allegheny football game on Oc
tober 16th. His fractured leg is com
ing along as well as can be expected, 
but he will probably be confined to 
the hospital until the latter part of 
January.
The Night Draftmens Club will 
hold a smoker in the Industries Build
ing next Friday evening, December 
17th.
The members of The Masters Sheet 
Metal Association and their wives 
visited the Industry School last even
ing. After being shown about the 
building, they witnessed a play in the 
Design School.
The members of The Graphica, of 
the Department of Printing had a 
theater party at The Miles last Sat
urday evening, a week.
P. LUDEBUE-HL M ^ON
Shoes and Hosiery Penn and Frankstown
$3.50 to $10.00 the Pair
FOOTPRINTS LEAD TO DETECTION
The standing of a man is as often as not told 
by his footwearif he is careless of that, hes apt 
to be negligent of more important things. If you 
will buy your shoes here, you may be certain of 
looking all right, feeling all right ar,d impressing 
others with the fact that you are all right. 
Our Shoes are built by some of the most repre
sentative Shoe Manufacturers in the world.
Special Mens Dept.
About 100 boys from the Latimer 
Junior High School visited Industries 
School last Friday afternoon. After 
a short talk by Dean Connelley in 
Room 104, they were shown about 
the building, by student guides. Later 
they visited Machinery Hall and Sci
ence School. Mr. Whitney, a stu
dent in the Night Teachers Course, 
was in charge of the boys.
Oakland 
Savings & Trust Co.
The Oakland Bank
Capital $200,000.00 
Surplus $200,000.00 
Deposits over $2,000,000.00
SAFE DEPOSIT BOXES FOR RENT
The sale of the Tech-Xmas cards 
closed la.st Friday. About 6,000 cards 
were disposed of.
BRACE BROS.
LAUNDRY
TRENTON AVENUE 
WILKINSBURG 
Beil Phone. Wilkins 23 
FOOTBALL RECEPTION TONIGHT
Continued from Page 1 
receive their awards for the seasons 
hard work. Director Hamerschlag is 
to be there and is to act as the Mas
ter of Ceremonies in giving the men 
theii letters.
Manager Henning will formally pre
sent all of the trophies won during the 
season of 1915 to the Carnegie Union 
where in the future all things of this 
kind are to be kept.
That the student body as well as 
the football team is to be given a real 
treat is an assured fact. The Sym
phony Orchestra, the Choral Club, 
the Mandolin Club, and the Glee Club 
quartet are to furnish the music for 
the evening, and it is needless to say 
that everyone will hear and see some
thing worth while.
At the close of the ceremonies, an 
informal dance will be held in the 
foyer of the Design School until 11:30.
Everyone in school is urged to be 
present tonight and show their appre
ciation for the splendid work done 
by the team this year, and also to 
show Coach Steffen that our interest 
in his team and himself doesnt die out 
as soon as the football season is over.
The following men will receive let
ters: Lauer, Fletcher, Hellstrom,
Kelly, Gibson, Kesner, McSorley, Altdoerffer, Finlay, Marshall, McFeaters, 
Kutz, Brunwasser, Williams, Levy, 
and Manager Henning.
Mellon National Bank
510-514 Smithfield Street 
409-413 Fifth Avenue
Capital, Surplus and Profits 
$9,000,000
OVERCOATS 
40c Sponged and Pressed 
60c Cleaned and Pressed 
J. GUTER .
C. 1. T. P. O. Room 102, W. Dorm.
CAMERAPHONF THEATER
6202 Penn Avenue
DRINKNEFFCO COFFEE
GEO. L. NEFF & CO.
Tea Importers and Coffee Roasters 
Penn Ave. and Barbeau St., Pittsburgh, Pa.
Prompt attention given to mail and telephone 
orders
Bell 4425 Court P. & A. 3361 Forbes
30c per lb.
GOTHIC the NEWARROW
2 for 25c COLLAR
T FITS THE CRAVAT

---------------------------------------------------

fiU? Partait
Design School Notes
BEAUX-ARTS JUDGMENT.
The results of the last Beaux-Arts 
judgment in New York on last Tues
day evening was very gratifying to 
the heads of the department here. 
It only emphasizes the contention 
that our architectural department is 
rapidly ranking itself at the head of 
the ladder and in a few more years 
will be second to none.
Vessrs. Hornbostel and Ellington, 
who represented the scho d on the 
jury, reported the following highest 
awards:
First Mention Placed: Metheny,
Grevlich, Clarke and Green.
First Mention: S. L. Long.
CLASS A CHARETTE.
Class A men completed their projet 
Saturday night in good shape. The 
problem was a banking office in a 
modern office building, special em
phasis being laid on the constructive 
phase of the design. There were a 
number of excellent designs and a 
lions share of honors is expected.
Southwell and OBrien contributed 
archeiologies that will set a new pace 
for those that follow.
DESIGN BASKETBALL.
The Design Sophomores are rapid
ly gathering scalps in their basketball 
meets.
In a fast and interesting game last 
Tuesday afternoon with the Jun
iors the Sophs were victorious by a 
score of 26-17. Both sides played 
hard, emphasizing the wealth of bas
ketball material at Design. The Sophs 
showed better team work.
For the Sophomores, Brockman 
and Spring at forward put a nice 
game. Jake Adams at center was on 
the jump continually. The guards, 
Young, Grevlick and Bremmer were 
also there and in evidence.
Substitutes: Brockman for Grev
lick, Smith for Bremmer, Grevlick for 
Young.
For the Juniors, DeYoung, Beck
man and Boss starred, all putting up
a fast and scrappy game. Substitutes: 
DeYoung for Ellenberger.
JUNIOR PROM PLANS PRO
GRESSING.
nent New York artist as one of the 
jury. The question of eligibility was 
discussed and it was decided that the 
following rule should hold: Any can
didate for a degree in the three mens 
schools of the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, who is in the day school 
for his third year, at least, or in the 
night school for his fourth year, at 
least, or who has spent an equivalent 
length of time in Tech as such a can
didate, or in any approved college and 
now attends Tech, or who holds a 
degree granted by the Carnegie In
stitute of Technology, is eligible to 
attend the Junior Prom. Of course 
this includes the Teachers Course of 
the School of Applied Industries. Any 
special cases should be brought up 
before the Prom Committee for con
sideration.
Design Sophs defeated Soph Civils 
in a speedy basketball game last Tues
day. The score, 18-10.
Other classes wanting games will 
communicate with J. H. Adams, De
sign School.
STUDENT ACTIVITIES BOARD 
DISCUSSES REGULATION 
OF CARNEGIE UNION.
The principal address of the last 
meeting of the Student Activities 
Board on Friday evening, December 
3, 1915, was to talk about ways and 
means of preserving the present state 
and equipment of the Union against 
any destructive tendencies on the part 
of the men who go there. The Board 
has provided a regular attendant who 
sees that the Union Is open every 
week day from 8:30 in the morning 
until 10:30 at night, and from 10:00 
A. M. to 5:00 P. M. on Sunday.
A problem which has been a great 
deal discussed by the Board this year 
is just what class of organizations are 
eligible to use the Union for their 
social affairs. The present decision 
of the Student Activities is that only 
classes, and non-restricted member
ship organizations have any right to 
use the Union for their social affairs. 
This excludes all engineering clubs, 
the T. A. C., T. D. C., T. S. C., and 
organizations belonging distinctly to 
the Industries School. On first sight 
it seems as if this were rather a strict 
measure, since the idea of having a 
Carnegie Union was largely to give 
the students a better place to have 
their social affairs, with the idea of 
building up a spirit of goodfellowship. 
However, the Board thought that any 
further use of the room might lead to 
complications which they didnt see 
just how to handle, so took this easier 
path.
RIESER, TRACK CAPTAIN.
Eligibility Rules Defined.
At the last meeting of the Junior 
Prom Committee several important 
questions were settled. It will be 
good news to all lovers of dance 
music to know that Nirella will fur
nish seven of his best players for the 
occasion. The poster competition has 
been handed over to the school au
thorities who have selected a promiPopular Science Senior Chosen.
At a meeting of the letter men of 
last years track team, Oliver Rieser, 
Senior Chemical of the Science School 
was elected track captain for the com
ing season, succeeding George Dunseith who did not return this year.
Rieser was the star distance man of 
last years team and gives promise of 
breaking some of our distance records 
this spring. He will have nine of last 
years letter men as a nucleus and 
should develop an excellent team.
Rieser was also captain of the cross 
country team which has closed a most 
successful season. Here he starred 
as on the cinder track and was our 
main point winner.
Roll Your Favorite Tobacco in
Riz La Croix Paper
and you will get a better flavor, relish and enjoyment from your cigarette than ever before. Because 
you will get only the pure, fresh fragrance of the 
tobaccowhich explains the universal preference for 
Riz La Croix Papers among smokers of experience.RIZ LA.*.
(Pronounced: REE-LAH-KROY)
FAMOUS CIGARETTE PAPERS
They are so pure, light 
thintheir combustion is so 
perfectthat there is abso
lutely no taste of pap 
in the smoke.
They are 
strong, do not 
burst in rolling, 
ar d are naturally 
 adhesive, because 
' made from the best 
fl?x linen. Entirely 
I pure and healthful,
I because exclusively a 
vegetable product.
FREE
Two interest
ing,illustrated Book
letsone about RIZ LA CROIX Cigarette Papers, the 
other showing how toRoll Your Own cigarettessent anywhere in 
U.S. on request. Address The American 
Tobacco Co., Room 1401, 111 Fifth Ave., N.Y
J.C.BRAGDON
_ COMMERCIAL PHOTOGRAPHER
yII, tbmcpwDrt mthDrnphisokmIrBOTHTONCS ENGRAVEP 
7iiPElNNAVf: No,,werntgNipulayp
Bell Phone 
239 SCHENLEYWEBER EXPRESS and STORAGE CO.
Moving, Packing and Storing of Furniture 
and Pianos. Geneial Hauling 
Baggage to and from Depots
4616-18-20 HENRY ST., PITTSBURGH
MODERN DANCES
FOX TROT, ONE-STEP 
WALTZ CANTER, SYNOCPATED STEPMcDOUGALL
SHADY AND PENN AVE.-8 P. M.
Mondays. Wednesday, Thursdays and Saturdays
WOOD ST. AND FIFTH AVE.8 P. M.
Tuesdays and Fridays
4616 FORBES ST.-8 P. M.
Friday Evenings
PRIVATE LESSONS ANY TIME DAILY
CALL. PHONF OR WRITE
Graduates of the Castle School, N. Y.
Glasses for Students
Our specialty is to fit spectacles, Come and get our judgment as to whether or not you need glasses.D. T. REED & CO.
OPTOMETRISTS AND OPTICIANS_______426 Penn Avenue. Pittsburgh_______
Wilmington College recently re
ceived a $2000 bequest from a friend 
of the institution and Doane Academy 
has received a $30,000 present.
Modern Dances
CLASSES AND PRIVATER. E. JACQUES
(All CASTLE'S Work) 
Forbes and Craig Sts., Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

lje (aciatt7
Science School Notes
SENIOR ELECTRICALS START 
WORK.
The Senior Electricals are starting 
on the big Western Pennsylvania 
year; the competition problem of the 
Engineers Society of Western Penn
sylvania. The problem this year con
sists in the complete design of a 5000 
K. W. power plant.
The Seniors last year cleaned up 
about all the honors conferred and 
the class of 1916 hopes to duplicate 
the performance.
MHO CLUB TO HAVE INTER
ESTING MEETING.
On Wednesday evening, December 
15, the Student Branch of the A. I.
E. E. will be treated to a very in
structive talk on measuring device by 
Mr. Allan S. Young, of the Leeds 
and Northrup Co. Reports of com
mittees on the annual banquet will 
be received at this meeting and also 
reports on different magazines. A 
good live meeting is assured and 
everyone should attend.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING 
SOCIETY.
Last Wednesday evening the Me
chanical Engineering Society had the 
pleasure of listening to talk on the 
subject of The Sleeve Valve Motor 
by Mr. H. H. Hower of the WillysOverland Company. This meeting 
was thrown open to visitors and a 
crowd of about one hundred and fifty 
heard the address. With the aid of 
pasteboard working models, which he 
distributed to the audience, a few ac
tual parts, and a number of slides, Mr. 
Hower was able to present the opera
tion and the engineering problems of 
the sleeve valve motor in a way that 
was not only interesting but instruc
tive and convincing. He compared it 
with the other types of motor used in 
automobiles and went into detail 
about the special features of the sleeve 
valve motor.
After the lecture an open discussion 
was taken part in by students and 
members of the faculty which brought 
out many more interesting points.
MAIL ANNOUNCEMENT.
Secretary Field has announced that hereafter the noon mail will arrive at 11:30, thus leaving the window at the post office open for the noon hour. An announcement as to distribution of the mail for the dormitories over the holidays will be posted tomorrow.
Buy Your Thistle Receipt
Half the style of a tailored suit is lost, unless the suit is kept perfectly clean and nicely pressed. We have cleaned and pressed so many ladies tailored suits that we have become experts at it, and return your garments so nicely finished as to elicit praise from even the most critical. Send your suit to us frequently. J. E. T. Shuman, 3911 Forbes St. Adv.
SECOND SCIENCE SMOKER
Continued from Page 1 
ly advertised; and this accounts for 
the only moderate attendance. There 
was no announcement of any kind 
made to the Senior class, and it was 
principally for them that the affair 
was held. Again the only notice on 
the bulletin board was the three mys
tic letters, S. S. S., which few under
stood, and last week there was no 
notice of the affair, in the Tartan. 
The principal value of a school paper 
is in giving the advance dope on such 
affairs, and the Tartan is very glad to 
have any organization put their ad
vance notices in its columns.
Besides the eats and smokes which 
were present in great abundance, sev
eral features of the evening were ex
ceptionally entertaining. Alcorns 
victory of four falls in ten minutes 
proved that the Plebes have a good 
man in him. One of the funniest 
things was the pumpkin pie eating 
contest, where each section put forth 
their champion eater to devour the 
entirety of a large pumpkin pie, with 
his hands tied behind his back. Kin
der proved himself the most rapid 
gastronomist and was rewarded with 
another pie, so that he could show 
the crowd how he ate the first one. 
Music is certainly a strong point of 
1919, for they put forth a Plebe quar
tet which was enchored three times, 
and one which .can well give the Glee 
Club varsity cause for a little shaking 
in their shoes. These four are Wel
ter, 1st tenor, Sisson, 2nd tenor, Ol
son, 1st bass, and Blazer, 2nd bass. 
Kinder, Balaurie, Holland, and Smith 
gave a stringed quartet, and a little 
later Kinder and Balaurie gave a gui
tar duet, and then Warner further 
contributed to the musical part by 
several little solos.
Chairman Butts, of Plebe Reception 
Committee, desires especially to thank 
Miss Adams, Mr. McCorkle, Mr. Gear
hart, and C. F. Peters for the help 
toward making the affair the best 
ever.
MUSICAL CLUBS GIVE ENTER
TAINMENT.
The Musical Clubs opened their 
season by giving a concert for the 
benefit of the inmates at Marshalsea. 
The concert was successful in every 
detail and gives the management high 
hopes for the coming season. The 
men who represented the clubs on 
this trip are not necessarily the ones 
who shall make up the club during 
the year. It was more on the order 
of a tryout. Therefore, the men who 
were left at home must not feel that 
they have not made the club for the 
number to be taken was limited.
During the past week the varsity 
and scrub quartettes were picked. 
They are now hard at work. The men 
who make up the varsity quartette are 
McNulty, Baker, Sharp and Hoffman. 
The scrub quartette is represented by 
Welter, Sisson, Olsen and Blazer. It 
may be said that the two quartettes 
are of equal ability, and the men on 
the varsity quartette will have to hus
tle to hold their positions, as age is 
the only thing that gives them the 
preference. The students of Carne
gie Tech can look forward to one 
grand home concert on March 10,
Come on and Belong
Fall in line with Tuxedo, and you and Tux will 
never fall out. Join the army of Smokers of the Sunny 
Smile, who have found the worldstop-notch tobacco and 
are spreading the good news in puffs of pure pleasure.
The Perfect Tobacco for Pipe and Cigarette
The original Tuxedo Process turns out the finest 
finished product in the smoke-world. Tobacco without 
one particle of harshness or bite in it  so soothing and 
mild and pleasant you never want to stop smoking it, 
and never have to. Its all-day-long enjoyment with 
Tuxedo, from the first bracing 
smoke in the morning to the 
last restful pipe at night.
You try it for a week  in pipe or cigarette  early and often.Stack it up against the best you ever smoked  and youll find something better in Tuxedo.
YOU CAN BUY TUXEDO EVERYWHERE
Convenient, glassine wrapped, 
moisture-proof pouch . . . OC
Famous green tin with gold 1 /"i 
lettering, curved to fit pocket X V/ C
In Tin Humidors, 40c and 80c In Glass Humidors, 50c and 90c
THE AMERICAN TOBACCO COMPANY
For EATS Come to US
We want to furnish the Baked Goods 
for your Frat. May we?
THE HALLER BAKERY
In the Center of the IROQUOIS BLOCK, Oakland
HOTEL SCHENLEY BARBER SHOP AND POOL ROOM
NEW TABLES 
AND NEW MANAGEMENT
FOR RENT. Tuxedos, Frocks, 
Silk Hats, Etc. See our agent, W. P. 
LIPPINCOTT, Soph Civil. First class 
stock. Prices reasonable.
DRESS SUIT RENTAL CO.
406 PGH. LIFE BIDG. Phone 1254 Grant
A regular 35c Hair Cut for 25c
Tech Barber Shop
FRED FARGEL, Proprietor 
CRAIG AND FORBES STREETS
For All
Occasions
RANDOLPH & McCLEMENTS
FLORAL EXPERTS
5936 Penn Ave., near Highland Ave.
Enterprise Cleaning Company
CLLANEhS AND DYERS 
Perfect Work in Ladies, Childrens and 
Household Work 
Oriental Rugs and Draperies a Specialty 
401 EAST END TRUST BLOG.. PITTSBURGH 
Phones: Office 449 Hiland : Works 4912 Hiland

---------------------------------------------------

a3% (Hartatt
CITY OFFICE EAST END OFFICE
611 PENN AVENUE S. HIGHLAND AVE. AND BAUM BLVD
OSWALD WERNER & SONS CO.
PITTSBURGHS OLDEST AND LARGEST 
DYEING AND CLEANING WORKS
Private Branch Exchange Main Office and Works
Call Hiland I 138 Cor. Bryant, St. Clair aud Mellon Sts.
ER YRCHIYRS HYTCHC!CHIY
Browning, King & Co.
CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS, AND HATS FOR MEN, BOYS AND CHILDREN 
439-441 WIID TCREEC
W. C. VALENTINE
Resident Tech Salesman for 
MEEHAN-RANKIN CO., Inc., of Philadelphia
Excellence without extravagance
H
NYTHING that a Tech student may desire in the way 
of FRATERNITY JEWELRY. Rings, Pins, 
Athletic Medals, Silver Cups, etc., may be had without leaving 
the campus.
We are leaders in Dance Programs 
high class Engraving and Stationery
Always Around the School
WHAT ABOUT YOUR TAILOR?
There is none so skilled 
and satisfactory as
JOS. F. FREEAUF & CO.
Suite 400-401, 347 FIFTH AVENUE, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Telephone 264 Grant
They fit you in PURSE, MIND AND BODY 
RAINCOATS, rubberized and cravenetted, made to measure. Special 
attention given to Altering, Repairing, Cleaning snd Pressing
CORNELL ADDED TO SCHEDULE
Continued from Page 1 
record we have every reason to be
lieve that we will be able to hold 
our own under any circumstances and 
with any team in the country.
The very act of Cornell putting us 
on the schedule is sufficient proof of 
the position to which we have attained 
and the ability of our players and 
coach in a no less degree, the clean, 
sportsmanlike tactics that have al
ways been employed are all respon
sible for this added prestige that will 
be even increased under added oppor
tunities.
The entire and completed schedule 
will be published as soon as arrange
ments have been completed for the 
games and the dates and other points 
of interest will be a revelation to our 
enthusiasts.
SWIMMING TEAM FORMATION.
First Tryouts Held Friday at P. A. A.
Hockey Prospects Stationary.
The trials for the Swimming Team, 
held in the P. A. A. tank last Friday, 
did not bring out the amount of good 
material that might have been hoped 
for, but nevertheless the showing 
made gives promise of a good team 
after a little development. As it is 
there are three or four fellows out 
for the team who seem to be of real 
varsity calibre. This means that a 
good relay team may be formed and 
entered in the meets. In addition, 
any fellows who have shown good 
form at all, may also be allowed to 
compete. The first swimming meet 
will be held in the P. A. A. tank Satusday night but due to having had so 
little practice it is not likely that Tech 
will enter.
In the Hockey Team line nothing 
new has come up and the matter has 
been dropped until the opening of the 
ice rink at Duquesne Garden some 
time in January.
NOTICE.
Some time ago a track emblem was 
lost somewhere around the school. 
The finder will please return it to M.
C. Adams, in the architects draught
ing room.
$250,000 FOR NEW ENTRANCE
Continued from Page 1 
before the street can be developed and 
laid out the consent of the U. S. gov
ernment will have to be obtained as 
the roadway must go over the end 
of a part of the land which is now 
in its possession for the Bureau of 
Mines.
The members of the Carnegie 
Foundation to whom our thanks pour 
forth and who made this grant, are: 
Andrew Carnegie, President; Elihu 
Root, Vice President; R. A. Franks, 
Dr. H. S. Pritchett, President of the 
Carnegie Foundation for the Ad
vancement of Teaching; Dr. R. S. 
Woodward, President Carnegie Insti
tute at Washington, D. C.; Charles L. 
Taylor, President of the Carnegie 
Hero Fund Commission; Col. Sam
uel Harden Church, President Car
negie Institute Board of Trustees, and 
James Bertram, Secretary.
The above gives, it may be noted, 
a general resume of the historical de
velopment of the project long hoped 
for by the Administration of Tech. 
Dr. Hamerschlag has been one 
of the strongest apostles in securing 
the grant and the ultimate success 
of the measure in the face of local 
opposition, plainly shows how sin
cere and deep rooted is the interest 
he constantly employs in furthering 
the career of Tech and its students.
In connection with the building of 
a bridge, numerous other buildings 
have been planned and working draw
ings for some are already being pre
pared by Mr. Hornbostel the insti
tute architect. The bridge proper is 
to be connected with the road now 
in front of the Central Building, and 
will open out on Forbes street, pro
viding an easy and shorter access to 
the various Tech buildings.
At the Science side of the bridge, 
that schools headhouse will be built 
in which the various administrative 
offices are to be located. Dean 
Leetes office, together with those of 
the heads of departments will be 
berthed here as will also various other 
offices for the Science clubs. For the 
other end of the bridge, elaborate 
plans are being laid out for the con
struction of a twenty-story building 
in which Dr. Hamerschlag, Mr. Field, 
Mr. Tarbell and other executives will 
have their offices. The Student Ac
tivities Board, Board of Control, and 
all other major organizations will, it 
is planned, be located in this mam
moth tower, centralizing them and 
making easy access to all the other 
buildings of the group. At the top 
it is quite likely the school telescope 
will be affixed. An auditorium of 
mammoth proportions is also being 
outlined for this building where the 
entire student body can be accommo
dated for commencement exercises, 
etc. The Carnegie Union, now establshed in the top floor of the present 
Central Building, will be newly lo
cated in this tower, and this building 
will then be utilized, as originally 
planned, as the Head House for the 
Industries Group. Dean Connelleys 
office will be located in it, and, the 
space now used for the Carnegie Un
ion will replace the present Industries 
Club Room, providing the largest of 
its kind in the entire group.
In addition to the bridge, new ad
ministrative office building, and Sci
ence head house, working plans are 
already being made for the new con
crete stadium to be built at once ad
jacent to Woodlawn avenue, between 
the Margaret Morrison School and 
the Science buildings. An elaborate 
model has been built in the Building 
Bureau showing the stadium, field, 
the bridge and parts of the Science 
head house and M. M. C. S. The 
stadium, as remarked, is to be con
structed wholly of concrete and will 
be provided with wooden seats able 
to hold 7,000 onlookers. Beneath the 
concrete stands, the steam mains will 
be run providing heat for the wom
ens school and the new gymnasium. 
It has not been definitely decided
where this will be built. It is likely 
to be placed under the bridge or be
tween the two right wings of M. M.
C. S. extending out onto the old ath
letic field. In this case, a tunnel will 
be constructed under the womens 
school leading onto the new field. 
Definite plans for a pool have not 
been made.
Just what all these additions will 
mean to Tech can easily be conjec
tured. The growth of the Institution 
has been of such proportions as re
main unequalled by any school. Dur
ing the last five years, building after 
building has gone up. First, the cen
tral part of the Design School; then, 
Machinery Hall. Last spring, the 
additions to Design were started and 
are now about completed. The Cen
tral Building was then put up, and 
now, to cap it all, the long-sought-for 
Morewood entrance will soon be a 
realized dream.
PIANOS and ORGANS SHEET MUSIC CUT RATE
H. A. BECKER
MUSIC HOUSE
EVERYTHING KNOWN IN MUSIC
Headquarters for Band and Orchestra 
Instruments, Music and Supplies
601 OHIO ST., CORNER OF MIDDLE, N. S.
Bell Phone Cedar 2797 P. & A: 952-A
PHONOGRAPHS A RISIC REPAIRING
That a course in military science 
will be instituted at Dartmouth is 
practically assured if the sanction of 
the administration can be obtained 
and sufficient interest is shown by the 
student body. If these requirements 
are met a commissioned officer and 
a non-commissioned officer will be 
sent to Hanover to take charge.
