 tartaniHHH January 20, 1976 Volume 76 Number 15
this week
CMU Wins First BBall Game page 19
Rape, How to Cope page 11
Sherlock Holmes Smarter Brother page 8
Some Sports Cost More Money Pa9e 3
Housing Policy Accepted
Klausing: 'I was just as surprised as you 
were to see those articles...'
by Debbie Rosenkrantz
After three months of delays, the 
Housing Sub-committee of the Campus 
Services Board has completed plans to 
find on-campus Rousing for all students 
who have had it in the past and desire 
it, or are entering students. The plan was 
okayed by Dr. Richard Van Horne, Vice 
Provost for Business Affairs.
In the final draft of Housing pol
icy and Procedures 1976-1977, is stated 
The University fully expects to be able 
to accommodate all current residents, 
undergraduate and graduate, who wish 
to remain in University residences. All 
forecasts of the number and types of acKlausing Controversy
by Gary Singer
The Post Gazette, the Pittsburgh Press, 
and at least one local television station 
(KDKA-TV 2), reported last week that 
Chuck Klausing may not serve as CMUs 
Football Coach after all. Klausing, the 
local media reports, was interviewed for 
the Head Coaching position at West 
Virginia University, where he had resigned 
as Assistant Head Coach in order to sign a 
five year contract with CMU.
When questioned about these reports, 
Klausing told the TARTAN I was just 
as surprised as you were to see those arti
cles. He explained that he did meet with 
WVU Athletic Director, Leland Byrd, but 
did so merely out of courtesy.
 Their [WVUS] Head Coach resigned 
Monday or Tuesday," explained Klausing, 
and they asked to talk to me. I called 
Jim Banner to get permission. As a courte
sy I talked to them Thursday morning and
returned here to work that afternoon. 
Klausing stressed that the meeting only 
concerned general items such as how to 
improve the athletic program.
Contradictory reports about Klausings 
intentions were received from CMU Foot
ball Team sources. It is alleged that 
Klausing announced at a team meeting, 
held Friday evening, that he was currently 
seeking the WVU position and he would 
know within ten days whether or not it 
would be offered to him.
The Post Gazette quoted Jim Banner, 
CMUs Athletic Director, as saying He 
would be allowed to return with our good 
wishes. When contacted by the 
TARTAN, Banner replied I dont recall 
making that statement. Banner stated 
that he had just gotten back from the 
NCAA Convention in St. Louis and did not 
know what was happening. I have not 
continued on page 7
Board Hears Complaints
by Paul Smith
Doug Konopka, Student Government 
President, addressed the Board of Trus
tees of Carnegie-Mellon University on 
Monday, January 19, 1976. A few days 
before his presentation, the Tartan inter
viewed Doug. There are several topics 
which I will present to the Board. Among 
these are athletics, WRCT, Skibo remod
eling, Security, and academic complaints'* 
He went ,on to elaborate on athletics by 
stating thaK his first goal will be to get 
James Banner, Athletic Director, to pub
lish a list of priorities for the Athletic 
Department. **1 would like to see a list of 
priorities drawn up and published so the 
students can see where we are and where 
we are going. I would hope that the 
Board would force the Athletic Depart
ment to fully disclose their budget. Stu
dents and faculty should be able to see 
exactly where the money is going without 
going through all the trouble the Tartan 
reporter went through to write last 
weeks story. A large fund raising cam
paign was launched last year to solicit 
a hundred thousand dollars from the Al
umni. I want to know how well its going 
and if its possible to divert some of that 
to sports^'The fund which Konopka was 
referring to was to raise funds from ex
commodations have been generous. Each 
room has.been surveyed for optimum 
(rather than maximum) use of this Uni
versity resource and summer remodeling 
and refurbishing will allow for an increase 
in the Universitys housing capacity. Later, the document states Should demand 
exceed the forecasts, contingency plans 
to obtain additional housing will be acti
vated. Married students with spouses 
and/of families who are presently in res
idence can expect to be provided with 
campus housing. Should this become im
possible, the University will assist those 
families in finding other accommodations 
and arrange and pay for normal moving 
expenses to a location within a reason
able distance from the University. No 
new married stuidents will be offered 
housing until after the room draw pe
riod (April 7), should space become 
available. Graduate students who are 
currently in residence will have pri
ority in Mudge Graduate House. Un
married grad students currently liv
ing at Doherty House may not stay, 
but their seniority at Doherty may 
be applied toward obtaining a room 
at Mudge.
Space in dorms will be given 
according to the following pri-out
orities (after 840 spaces for freshmen 
and 140 spaces for entering graduate 
students have been subtracted from 
the number of available rooms): 1) sec
ond year students, 2) third year stu
dents, 3)fourth year and longer, 4)married students with spouse and/or family 
currently in residence, 5)transfer stu
dents, and 6)students not in residence 
in the Spring semester of 1976. After 
room reservation deadlines occupancy 
will be available on a first-come firstserved basis at the discretion of the 
Dean of Residence Life.
Room draw (the choosing of 
particular rooms after you have been 
guaranteed a room) will proceed in 
numerical order as drawn from a lot
tery (during room reservation proce
dure). Furthermore, those students who 
have lived in the dorms longest get first 
choice within their group. The order of 
groups is: 1) graduate students for Mudge,
2) married students for Doherty 
apartments, 3) seniors, 4) juniors, and
5) sophmores.
Room reservation procedures will 
be as follows for current residents:
1) a twenty-five dollar non-refundable 
deposit must be paid prior to February
continued on page 6
Civ.E. Head Named
CMU varsity athletes. These donation; 
may be earmarked by the donors for an> 
particular sport. Doug expressed concerr 
for the use of these funds. His suggestioi 
was if its possible to do so then i 
growth fund could be set up for sport: 
whicjh would be a special fund for pur
chases in the area of athletics.*
Konopka was asked what he plans to 
report to the Trustees about WRCT. He 
answered,! want to inform them about
continued on page 7
360, How Long?
by Claire Lee
The CMU Computation Center will 
celebrate its 20th anniversary in July of 
1976. Its guiding principle is as it was 
20 years ago: to provide the most advanc
ed computing capabilities possible to edu
cational research, and administrative mem
bers of the CMU community. Its director 
is Dr. J.W. McCredie (Vice Provost of
Information Services).
He says that there exists a common con
fusion among students concerning the 
Computation Center and The Computer 
Science Dept. - one often taken for the 
other or both thought of as one body. The 
two were a single organizational unit
continued on page 6
by Elly Zimmerman
If you last five years as a department 
head you are really doing well, Dr. 
Francis McMichael stated in regard to his 
recently announced appointment as Civil 
Engineering Department Head. It is a 
wearing job, he added. McMichael, an 
Associate Professor in Civil Engineering 
and Engineering and Public Affairs, was 
chosen over candidates from Stanford, 
MIT and Case-Western Reserve.
Presently an Associate Professor, he is 
expecting to receive tenure and a 
promotion to full professor. Commenting 
on the fact that he will have to leave the 
university if he is denied tenure, 
McMichael stated,! think it would be 
foolish to put me in this type of position 
and have a contradictory decision made. 
He commentedfurther If 1 didnt get 
it [tenure) Id be very surprised! Ive 
just assumed that it was going to happen. 
Tenure decisions will be announced this 
spring.
McMichael will be replacing Dr. James 
Romualdi, Transportation Research Insti
tute Director, who has been Acting Head 
since the former Department Head, Dr. 
Steven Fenves resigned last February. 
Fenves cited health reasons for his 
decision.
The department head is a coordinator 
and initiator, someone who worries about 
the details and the continuity of the pro
gram. You try to get positive publicity 
and visibility for the department, 
McMichael commented. In the past, 
department heads were 60 years old 
with an international reputation...real 
father figures, he stated. That has really 
changed. Now the individual must deal 
with people ot all ages, all backgrounds, 
compromise is routine.
Another major concern of McMichaels 
will be the undergraduate and graduate
curricula. Recently there has been con
troversy concerning self-paced courses. 
There are students who have told me 
that they really like self-paced and that 
we should have more self-paced courses. 
There are other students who have told 
me that if its the policy to have selfpaced courses they would like to leave 
the department. I believe that it is my 
job to try to determine the reasons for 
both of these positions. McMichael went 
on to say, We certainly dont want a 
university whose curriculum consists of 
correspondence courseswhere you never 
see the faculty.-*
Next year the entire undergraduate 
program is coming up for accreditation. 
There is no question in my mind that all 
of the engineering departments will be 
accredited. We are an institution that 
others copy. I think were a leader, 
McMichael stated.
continued on page 7
Photo by ta I West 
McMichael: "The department head is a 
coordinator and initiator..."

---------------------------------------------------

tar niHJu Hy2Hy0,1t97t6V nol meNb
editors note
Room For One More
A housing problem exists at this university and the administration 
is reluctant to admit that the problem is real. Claims from Warner Hall 
that the university fully expects to be able to accommodate all current 
residents who wish to remain in university residence, "present an overly 
optimistic portrayal of the situation; a portrayal which may in fact be 
inaccurate.
The Campus Services' University Housing Policy statement for 
1976-1977 suggests that currrent university housing will be sufficient 
to provide campus housing for all who desire it. This prediction is based 
on an estimate of the universitys current housing capacity, not on an 
exact evaluation of future occupancy which was supposedly made 
during the winter recess. However when the TARTAN approached 
Steve Zalewski, the Director of Campus Services, he indicated that 
final tabulations for the study had not yet been completed.
Exact figures of available rooms are crucial for determining just 
how serious the housing problem actualy is. A difference of less 
than 10% between the actual figures and the estimate could 
mean an error of 200 rooms, enough to make the difference between 
having adequate housing facilities or a large number of disgruntled 
seniors thrown into off campus housing. In fact, Zalewski told the 
TARTAN in December that the potential existed for half of next 
years seniors to not receive the on campus housing they desire.
Earlier drafts of the Campus Services housing policy were less 
optimistic than the final version. These claim that most students can 
be accommodated. More importantly, these earlier drafts state that 
present housing capacity will certainly be totally inadequate to handle 
the projected number of students for the 1977 school year. Even if 
present capacity turns out to be adequate next year we are putting off 
the problem until the year after that.
Complicating the situation is the tight market for off campus hous
ing. Zalewski blames the housing market for causing surprisingly high 
numbers of upperclassmen to remain in the dorms instead of moving 
off campus, and he doesnt expect the housing market to ease up in the 
future.
This suggests that the current plan to increase the size of the stud
ent body without increasing on campus housing facilities is short sight
ed and unjust.
Fundamental to the entire housing problem is the question of what 
size CMU should be. Students should be given a dear portrayal of what 
type of housing'policy can be expected, instead of having to suffer the 
uncertainty of not knowing where next year's home will be. But only 
if the university establishes a dear cut position on scale, can the pres
ent uncertainty and resultant mistrust be avoided.
Last September, President Cyert and other members of the 
administration were fond of talking about the importance of scale 
and they continually emphasized the importance or having an open 
discussion of the matter. Now, a semester later, the word scale 
has disappeared from Warner Halls vocabulary. The issue of scale 
was not even among the agenda Items for the Board of Trustees meeting 
yesterday members of Dr. Cyerts committee on scale report that they 
only met once last semester. This committee , as has the whole scale 
issue, has faded into obscurity.
Predictions of a severe housing shortage in 1975 were made as long 
ago as 1970. But soon after that study was made, the aerospace indus
try went bust and engineering enrollment plummeted. Blinded by the 
sudden drop in students and lacking a well defined policy on scale, the 
university failed to prepare for the shortage which has indeed occurred.
A look at CMUs growth over the last ten years shows the 1975-1976 
enrollment to follow a tren agreeing well with the enrollment growth 
of the late 1960s. The present enrollment of about 4700 full time 
students is the largest in the history of CMU, almost 300 larger than 
the previous high of about 4400 in 1969.
Without any kind of plan on scale by the administration, several 
things can be expected . Faced with a justified unwillingness to build 
because of the large enrollment drops expected in the 1980s we can 
anticipate overcrowding for the rest of our (the students) days at CMU 
as the administration attempts to maximize enrollment in order to in
crease income. The housing shortage wiH get worse before it gets better. 
But strangely enough, we can be sure that in five years, the problem 
wont exist. If the university can just manage to ignore it long enough 
it will go away as enrollment takes the expected dive of the 80s.
For now, though, the administration has an obligation to provide 
students with an accurate description of current conditions, instead of 
one which lulls them into complacency. And we must realize that right 
now the administration is planning for the 1980s and these plans may 
preclude the needs of today.
Charles Mitch 
Managing Editor
letters
Both Nurd and Faggott 
Editor:
I am crazy. At least, that is 
the impression I have gotten 
from faculty members and fel
low students here at CMU. You 
see, two of my main interests 
(and I immodestly also consider 
talents) are in Math and Drama.1 
However, it seems that would 
make me both a math nurd and 
a fine arts faggot, which is of 
course impossible in the same 
person. Bull.
I came to this establishment 
under the mistaken assumption 
that I could study both Math 
and Drama in my four years 
here. This assumption was first 
instilled by admissions people, 
who bragged of the diversity 
of the school, and the strengths 
of both MIS and the Drama 
department. Also, in the 75-77 
catalog:
Qualified students who wish 
to combine studies in the arts 
and humainities or sciences, 
may, with departmental con
sent, be admitted to courses 
in more than one department, 
though the college does not 
encourage a casual approach 
to any of the arts. Students 
with less than professional 
interest in the arts should 
investigate programs offered 
through the College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences.
My hopes for continuing to 
be involved in Drama (after 
acting for five years in such 
prestigious productions as 
Rhinoceros and Long Days 
Journey into Night were weak
ened during orientation this year 
when I met and discussed my in
terests with Professor Moore, 
head of my department. He told 
me my only chance for acting 
was Scotch n Soda, the CMU 
drama club. I soon found that 
this club put on nothing but one 
student-written and directed 
musical per year, But they did 
ask for actors as well as singers 
and dancers, so I tried out. 
They made me sing at tryouts,
made me dance, but didnt ask 
me to read. I guess they didnt 
want actors.
So I returned to the idea that 
the catalog was really not lying, 
and talked to my advisor, Dean 
Kail. He told me the same story : 
science majors are not welcome 
in the Drama department. Again 
checking the catalog, I discover
ed there is only one (9 unit) 
course in Drama, 54299, grudg
ingly offered to non-Drama ma
jors.
Somehow I dont see where 
the Drama department thinks 
people who may be fine actors 
need be only fine actors, and not 
also fine historians, lawyers, 
or even (dare I say it?) math
ematicians. Even if they feel 
the Drama majors must be set 
off from the rest of the world 
(they even have their own spe
cial math course), that doesnt 
mean the department should be 
shut off from the community.
Of course, the problem prob
ably wouldnt seem so urgent 
if there was a real drama club
Volume 76tartan
January 20, 1976Number 15
Editor in Chief 
Gary Singer
Managing Editor: Charles Mitch 
Business Manager:Tom Kirkland 
News Editor: Debbie Rosenkrantz
Entertainment Editor Mark Chimsk'y 
Trapeze Editor: Rick Costa 
Sports Editor: Elly Zimmerman 
Photography Editor: Elliot Popowitz
Staff Photographers: Rick Frantz, James Johnston, Courtney Larson, Kathi Leichter, Dave Meeker, John Rose 
Mark Segal, Fred Shamlian, Brian Smith, Carl West, and Paul Williams.
Copyrighted 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TARTAN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit 
or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; [4121 
621-2600 extention656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (4121 6Q2-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN1t97t6V nol meNbitar 5
news comment
SOME Sports Cost More Money
1Cr Omdorff
After reading Elly Zimmer
mans Sports Commentary in the 
January 13 TARTAN, I feel that 
a few observations and correc
tions are in order. Firstly, the 
title should more properly read 
Some Sports Cost More Money 
Secondly, there is not a 
general lack of respectable ath
letics of any type, but rather 
problems with the traditional 
big sports - sports which gen
erally (read: most everywheres 
 else) draw large crowds, field 
large teams, require a large 
coaching staff, and need a max
imum of money. There are 
sports teams on this campus 
which receive a minimum of 
money, publicity and spectators, 
and still manage to do a consis
tently respectable job -- Track, 
Cross Country, Hockey, Fenc
ing, Volleyball, Womens Basket
ball ...
The most striking feature of 
the commentary was the great 
amount of time devoted to the 
size, shape, allocation, and what
ever of the athletic budget. 
Its obvious to me that this con
troversy can be easily settledletters
by a look at the budget of this 
year, and a comparison with 
previous budgets. Until some
thing like this is done, and the 
facts determined, its a waste of 
time to argue. Finally, the first 
sentence in Ms. Zimmermans 
commentary stated thaf CMU is 
suffering from an incurable dis
ease. Not so. When one is faced 
with a seemingly unsolvable 
problem, he may continue to 
beat his head against it in an ef-' 
fort to break something, or in
stead, step back and change 
course to move around it. Un
fortunately, those in power seem 
to have chosen the former 
course of action .. .
The result is a stepping up 
of the athletic program at CMU, 
bringing many questions to 
mind. Are we destined to be
come a sports *$chool? Ten 
years ago, most people on this 
campus didnt know what a 
football was. Now, we have 
Chuck Klausing from WVU as 
a coach, something which I 
found almost incomprehensible 
when I first heard of it. Klaus
ing, whom Banner describes as 
the best coach in America,
continued from page two 
at CMU. one dedicated to 
putting on professional-quality 
shows (with no limiting to musi
cals) and open to the whole 
1 campus community. One learns 
more from production than 
from classes, anyway. (I doubt 
if even the Drama department 
would argue that.)
Jim Russell 
Freshman, MIS
Athletics Takes Time 
Editor:
Elly Zimmermans sports 
commentary in your January 13, 
1976 issue proves, that insight 
into serious journalism is not a 
prerequisite for gaining a posi
tion on the TARTAN staff. 
Rash generalities, obvious biased 
comments, and general lack of 
athletic knowledge is very ap
parent in the two page, head
lined article. The most obvious 
misconception Ms. Zimmerman 
has about athletics and athletic 
programs is her unrelenting zeal 
to see immediate results. Athlet
ic programs take time to recruit 
and build winning teams. There 
are very few examples of win
ning programs built in one year 
that have the facilities, or lack 
of them, that CMU has possess
ed until most recently. Obvious
ly Ms. Zimmerman knows more 
of the scandalous big college 
financial mysteries than she 
knows of the ways and means 
of building a successful athletic 
program and of writing an 
accurate sports commentary.
In her first paragraph Ms. 
Zimmerman states that CMU 
shows a general lack of res
pectable athlctics of any type. 
H she would have done a mini
mal amount of research she 
would have found that CMLPs 
football team had the fourteenth 
ranked Divsion III scoring de
fense IN THE COUNTRY. This 
one example, although trivial 
and not highly interesting, re
flects a respectable showing 
in the eyes of intercollegiate 
athletics and is documented in 
the NCAA Division III final 
statistics.
Ms. Zimmerman obviously 
isnt interested in intercollegiate 
athletics and further shows her 
uninterest in her dialogue 
with Athletic Director James 
Banner on unnecessary expen
ditures. Any individual with a 
meager interest or knowledge of 
sports, especially football, 
knows that a program only can 
be built with younger players 
who watch and learn the system. 
Any cutting of the squad would 
ruin the building process that 
has already occured.
The budget dialogue of the 
piece obviously shows Ms. 
Zimmermans true bias is to
wards intramurals. She states 
that only $5000 is spent to
ward IMs but in reality how 
much more needs to be spent to 
run an efficient intramural pro
gram. One tends to wonder if 
IM Grand Prix racing would be 
included in the program if Ms. 
Zimmerman gets her wish.
Essentially the article is not 
worth serious consideration by 
the student who is trying to 
rationalize how his money is 
spent. In the future the TAR
TAN should try to avoid report
ers and editors who do not know 
or care about what they are 
commenting on.
Ray Moncini
held a position at WVU best 
described as assistant head 
coach, and is well known as a 
recfiiiter. So whys he coming 
to a school like this? I asked 
myself. I had no answers.
Why are there such problems 
with varsity sport at CMU? The 
biggest reason is the nature of 
the situation itself, and the in
herent limitations and restric
tions which accompany it. It is 
a rare individual indeed who is 
both an athlete and a scholar 
of outstanding ability; most 
people are one or the other 
(or neither). Since a great num
ber of the people on this campus 
give academics a relatively high 
priority, outside interests, such 
as sports, must suffer. The re
sult is a great number of people 
who would like to compete, 
but canf; problems with prac
tices in terms of when, where, 
how long, etc. (Some of which 
were responsible for the wrest
ling fiasco last year.); and final
ly, a dearth of spectators, due to 
apathy, lack of time, poor pub
licity, or what have you. Still 
and all, some students do find 
the time and inclination to com
pete. Ignoring the problem of in
adequate coaching, in the light 
of recent changes in staff, one 
must examine the materials the 
coach must work with. It must 
be admitted that a great number 
of the athletes at CMU, due to 
the type of school we have, are 
mediocre competitors who 
probably wouldnt participate in
varsity sport at a state school. 
Also, shocking as it may sound, 
some of these young warriors are 
actually lacking in dedication, 
and can most often be observed 
working out on a bar stool. 
You sort of wonder if they 
know where the gym is at. Fi
nally, there are those who are 
in sports for three things: notor
iety, awards, and wimmen, and 
dont really care one way or 
another whether they win or 
lose.
The problems I have just out
lined are basic ones which are 
concerned with motivation, ded
ication, time, apathy, and the 
reasons why someone chooses to 
come here to school. These are. 
things upon which money has a 
negligible effect, demanding 
rather some drastic policy 
change. There are, I believe, four 
options available. Firstly, we can 
pursue the present course, al
though it is unclear exactly what 
it is. By continuing to funnel 
money in, a change may be 
brought about in athletics if 
were lucky. Of course, things 
may continue as they' have 
been, or may change in depen
dent of the budget increase, 
in which case all that money is 
shot to hell. Secondly, we can 
go all-sports and recruit, bring
ing in a horde of academic 
problems, and generally estab
lishing a situation on this cam
pus which I shudder to think 
about.
On the other hand, it may be 
advantageous to adopt the oppo
site course of action and restrict 
our present program. Adopting 
the Build from Strength idea 
which is either quoted or con
veniently overlooked, depending 
on what is being discussed, we 
can phase out those sports 
which are consistent losers, and 
devote more resources to those 
with respectable records. The 
excess may then be applied to 
IM sports. Further, there is the 
option of going entirely IM, and 
forgetting varsity all together.
I dont think it can be proven 
that varsity competition has any 
advantages over intramural) 
sport, while it can be seen that 
the intramurals are far superior 
to interscholastic competition. 
For example, more people com
pete in the IM program; one may 
compete on any one of three 
levels in some sports; less time is 
needed; there is less pressure to 
win, and more chance for pure
enjoyment (a thing which is of
ten lost in varsity sport); the 
team coaches itself; and most 
importantly, anyone may partic
ipate and be assured of com
peting. The savings in money 
is readily apparant; I doubt 
whether the IM program could 
even begin to spend $80,000.
Without a doubt, the sports 
program at this school is in 
big trouble, and Id like to see 
something done. Phasing out 
athletics entirely, as some have 
proposed, is not the answer. The 
value of sports is undeniable, 
continued on page six
Senate, Now More Than Ever
This is the first of a series of 
articles concerning Student Gov
ernment here at CMU. Through 
-these articles, the officers of Stu
dent Senate and the Student 
Government Corporation hope 
to outline, clarify and explain 
the functions of their offices and 
also to expand on what they will 
be doing during the coming 
semester.
I am chairperson of the Stu
dent Senate Rules Committee. 
It is the duty of Rules Commit
tee to:
1 ) Recognize student organi
zations within the guidelines set 
forth by the Student Senate
2) Annually review all recog
nized student organizations
3) Periodically review and re
commend changes in the Stu
dent Government Constitution 
and Bylaws
4) Report attendance pro
blems to the Senate
5) Conduct elections
6) Keep records of all student 
Government legislation
Past Senates have not fulfilled 
these responsibilities completely, 
resulting in four major deficien
cies. First was the incomplete 
and outdated data on the re
cognized student organizations. 
Prior to September 1975 there 
wasnt even an accurate listing of 
what clubs existed, let alone 
who could be contacted from 
each group. Secondly, the Con
stitution was recently revised
and the revision has several loop
holes that need to be filled. 
Once these loopholes are filled, 
I feel that the current constitu
tion will be one which will bene
fit the Senate and the student 
body. Third, election participa
tion was decreasing both in 
terms of candidates and voters. 
And lastly, no concise records 
were kept of Student Govern
ment legislation.
During the past semester 
great strides have been taken in 
some of these areas. Attempts 
were made to contact all recog
nized student organizations and 
obtain current listings of their 
officers. This information was 
printed in the Student Activities 
Calendar just distributed and 
will be printed in the campus 
calendar. Also, a few of the 
loopholes were filled, allowing 
Senate to operate a little better. 
The elections saw the largest 
turnout of candidates in history, 
also voter turnout was up over 
last year. Still no concise re
cords were kept of Senate rules 
and regulations. So where does 
Rules go from here?
By the end of spring semester
1976 Rules Committee will have 
solved the problems Ive stated 
above. Since Rules Committee 
has more Senators than ever be
fore and since all of the Senators 
have expressed a commitment to 
Senate, I plan to establish sub
committees of 2-3 Senators to
look at each of the four areas 
mentioned. Where progress has 
been made aH the Senators will 
have to do is update what has al
ready been done. In other areas 
the Senators will be able to use 
their imagination to start solu
tions. By dividing the work load 
among 8 or more Senators much 
can be accomplished.
But all that Ive said so far 
concerns the Senate and only 
the Senate. What can you, the 
campus community do? You can 
join any club on campus that in
terests you. Increased club acti
vity promotes the welfare of the 
student body as stated in the 
Student Government Constitu
tion. You can vote and run for 
office in the elections for Stu
dent Government. You can 
make complaints and grievances 
known through SDC, UFO, and/ 
or Senate and expect some ac
tion. You can talk to your repre
sentative and keep informed and 
keep them informed. These are 
just some of the things you can 
do, limited only by your initia
tive, determination and imagina
tion. Student Senate exists not 
for itself but for the student 
body. Rules Committee stands 
waiting to serve the Senate and 
the campus. Please contact us 
via Skibo 103 if we can be of 
service.
Jerry DiGennaro 
Senate Rules Chairperson

---------------------------------------------------

tar MiHJu Hy2Hy0,1t97t6V nol meNb
announcements
For the 1976-77 academic year, the Finan
UWts yWF BGGWUr pWss 0BH gr RtWsW9a 6r9rpw
ts GC6RS hC U766r9h tWF 6rUWcWr9hSk yss Sh7w
Fr9hSl h8CSr p8C t6r U766r9hsV 6rUrWPW9a 
tWFl tS prss tS t9V Ch8r6 Sh7Fr9h p8C 
pC7sF sW3r hC tccsV GC6 tWF GC6 deNb,NNl 
R7Sh CghtW9 h8CSr GC6RS FW6rUhsV G6CR h8r 
vW9t9UWts yWF BGGWUrl nm. dEt69r6 Jtssk yss 
Rthr6Wts pWss gr tPtWstgsr graW99W9a IrUrRw
gr6 m.l meN.k
Kiltie Band  Spring '76. The Kiltie Band
WS c6rct6W9a GC6 fh:S y997ts Tt9F HC76 
zLt6U8 mo,m5Kk y9VC9r C7hSWFr CG L7SWU 
Irchl p8C cstVrF W9 h8r gt9F stSh SrRrShr6 
t9F pC7sF sW3r hC cstV tatW9 h8WS SrRrShr6l 
csrtSr UC9htUh L6k DthrsW9rh th bnm,nbool 
u-hk Mnbk
The University of Pittsburgh Japanese Club
pWss gr 8CsFW9a Wh:S GW6Sh RrrhW9a h8WS hr6R 
C9 ArF9rSFtVl 1t97t6V nmSh th 55o cR W9 
2CCR nmM Lr6PWS Jtssk Dtss I6k LUIC9tsF 
th bnM,..bO GC6 RC6r W9GC6RthWC9k uPr6Vw
C9r WS W9PWhrF p8C 8tS t9V W9hr6rSh W9 
1tct9 f
The Zen Study Society of CMU is meeting
F76W9a 1t97t6V t9F vrg67t6V pWh8 h8r V6w
tRWF ;r9 [CUWrhV th Whhk LrrhW9aS t6r 
Ccr9 hC h8r c7gsWU t9F t6r 8rsF C9 H876Sw
FtVS th N5o cR W9 2CCR 5me CG h8r Whh 
[h7Fr9h 49WC9k vC6 RC6r W9GC6RthWC9 Utss 
Mnm,no5ek
Resident Assistant applications for the
Nb,NN SU8CCs Vrt6 t6r tPtWstgsr W9 h8r 2rSWw
Fr9Ur xWGr BGGWUrk yss W9hr6rShrF tccsWUt9hS 
S8C7sF cWU3 7c h8rW6 tccsWUthWC9S t9F 6rw
h769 h8rR gV vrg67t6V .h8k srtSr UCRr W9 
cr6SC9 p8r9 6rh769W9a VC76 UCRcsrhrF tcw
csWUthWC9 SC t9 tccCW9hRr9h pWh8 h8r 6rSWw
Fr9h ySSWSht9h JrtF t9F h8r Irt9 CG 2rSWw
Fr9Ur xWGr Ut9 gr t66t9arFk
Any group who is interested in planning an
rPr9hl Ut9 6r(7rSh G79FW9a G6CR h8r yUhWPw
WhWrS TCt6F 6Ca6tR v79Fk uPr9h R7Sh gr 
Ccr9 hC UtRc7S UCRR79WhV t9F Sh7Fr9h 
ScC9SC6rFk vC6 tccsWUthWC9S t9F G76h8r6 
W9GC6RthWC9 srtPr t 9Chr th [3WgC f9GCk 
IrS3 C6 UC9htUh IC6W9t [crsRt9 bOm , 
mbONk
CMU Computer Club will hold a general
RrrhW9a C9 ArFkl 1t9k nm th Noo cRk 
uPr6VC9r WS prsUCRr hC UCRr hC h8r Us7g 
6CCR th bnoN [UWr9Ur Jtss t9V hWRr t9F 
Rrrh 7Sk
Assault Defense Program  its not too late
hC SWa9 7c th h8r [3WgC f9GC6RthWC9 FrS3k 
Qmokoo GC6 m. 8C76S CG W9Sh67UhWC9 pWh8 
LSk TCggWr [9VFr6l 2tcr D6WSWS Dr9hr6k 
H7rSFtVS mm5o hC moo cR Sht6hW9a 1t9w
7t6V nok Bcr9 hC tss ACRr9 th DL4k
An Evening of Americana" with pianist
1rt99r Tr86t9Fk Ooo cR ys7R9W DC9Ur6h 
Jtssl Dvyk [cC9SC6rF gV DtRc7S 6Ca6tR 
st99W9a t9F h8r DL4 L7SWU Irct6hRr9hk 
[rsrUhWC9S hC W9Us7Fr Ltcsr xrtG TtgV 
gV [UChh 1CcsW9 t9F DC9UC6Fl LtSSk mOMo, 
bo uRr6SC9l Jtph8C69rl t'M ysUChhSl 
H8C6rt7 gV D8t6srS fPrSk
Anyone interested in joining AB films
DCRRWhhrrl z8tPr t StV W9 p8th VC7 SrrK 
csrtSr srtPr 9tRr t9F 97Rgr6 W9 GWsR gCth S3WgC f9GC6RthWC9 FrS3 C6 UC9htUh 1C89 
dWasWt9r6 th bOm,mee5k
Basketball game - Wed. Jan. 21 at 8:00
W9 h8r [3WgC aVRk H8r Ht6ht9S pWss cstV 
H8Wrsk
A public lecture on SELFANAYSIS,
[uxv DB0H2Bx t9F [uxv,2uyxf;yw
HfB0 pWss gr c6rSr9hrF gV I6k xkZk LWS6t 
IW6rUhC6 CG h8r JWRtstVt9 f9ShWh7hr W9 
Zt9c76l f9FWt th h8r 49WPr6SWhV CG WhhSw
g76a8l Tr9rF7R,u9aW9rr6W9a Jtss C9 v6Ww
FtVl 1t97t6V 5o th Ooo cRk
I6k LWS6t pWss tsSC UC9F7Uh t ScrUWts 
UstSS C9 h8r Cat [7h6tS CG tht9"tsW th 
h8r JWRtstVt9 f9ShWh7r i WhhSg76a8 
T6t9U8 i sCUthrF th No 0k v6rRC9h yPrk 
W9 TrssrP7r C9 [th76FtV 1t97t6V 5m G6ER 
mo tR , m cRk vC6 G76h8r6 W9GC6RthWC9 Utss 
h8r f9ShWh7r th Nbb,nbbbk
The Pittsburgh Chapter of the Independent
vC79FthWC9 pWss 8tPr t ct6hVjRrrhW9a C9 
v6WFtVl 1t97t6V n5l th Ooo cR th h8r x7w
h8r6t9 [h7Fr9h Dr9hr6l M.m. vC6grS yPrkl 
Bt3st9Fk yss GC6Rr6 rtUr DC6cS t9F 
df[Hy PCs79hrr6S t6r W9PWhrF hC thhr9Fk
40fdu2[fH B2yHB2 Bv 
HJu JBx [f2fH y2f[J
DL4 DyL4[
SATURDAY MASS..............................................7:00 PM. - Tech House
SUNDAY MASS.........................10:30 AM.  Science Hell (Rm 7500)
DAILY MASS (Mon.-Frl.)........... .......................5x00 PM.  Tech House
Fathers John Welsh or Dob English 
Tech House 9125 Margaret Morrison 621-2911
Tech Flying Dub will hold its first meeting
CG h8r SrRrShr6 C9 ArF9rSFtVl 1t97t6V nml 
W9 [3WgC mn th N5o cRk 2raWC9ts Irtsr6 
GC6 y9tsCa H6tW9W9a DCRc7hr6S f9Uk pWss gr 
C9 8t9F hC FrRC9Sh6thr h8r yHD,.mo 
GsWa8h SWR7sthC6k IWSU7SSWC9 t9F 6rG6rS8w
Rr9hS pWss GCssCpk yss t6r prsUCRrY H8WS 
SrRrShr6:S RrrhW9aS pWss gr C9 h8r h8W6F 
ArF9rSFtV CG rPr6V RC9h8 1t9k nml 
vrgk mOl Lt6U8 mNl yc6Ws nm th N5o cR 
W9 [3WgC 2CCR mnk vC6 G76h8r6 W9GC6Rtw
hWC9 Utss HC9V vW9r th bOn,ObMbk
Tuesday, January 27 at 7:30 pm in the
A8r66rhh 2CCRl [3WgC yLu2fDy0
Ay Bv IuyHJl t b ct6h Sr6WrSl graW9S 
h8WS rPr9W9a pWh8 3rV9Chr Scrt3r6 I6k 
It9Wrs LUq7W6r t7h8C6 CG Irth8 gV 
D8t9Url Irth8 gV D8CWUrl p8C pWss FWSU7SS 
y9 yRr6WUt9 r6ScrUhWPr C9 Irth8k vC6 
UCRcsrhr W9GC6RthWC9 C9 h8r Sr6WrSl g6Cw
U876rS t6r tPtWstgsr th h8r [3WgC f9GC6Rtw
hWC9 IrS3k [cC9SC6rF gV DtRc7S 6Ca6tR 
st99W9al T:9tW T:6Wh8 JWssrs 1rpWS8 49WPr6,k 
SWhV Dr9hr6l 49WPr6SWhV t9F DWhV LW9WSh6WrSk 
v6rr$ Ccr9 hC h8r c7gsWUk
Thursday Afternoon Luncheon Forum Ser
WrS c6rSr9hS 2f[B0 xfvu AB4xI B4 
Tu B0 B42 Tu[H TuJydfB2% H876Sw
FtVl 1t97t6V nn th mn5o cR W9 h8r A8r6w
6rhh 2CCRl [3WgCk y SsWFr c6rSr9hthWC9 CG 
h8r ;WRgt6FC 6WSC9 [h7FV ScC9SC6rF gV 
[ht9GC6F 49WPr6SWhVl pWss gr W9h6CF7UrF gV 
1C89 Dt66Css CG DL4:S SVU8CsCaV Irchk 
H8r SWR7sthrF hrShl W9 p8WU8 6t9FCRsV 
SrsrUhrF UCssrar Sh7Fr9hS pr6r tSSWa9rF hC 
gr a7t6FS t9F c6WSC9r6Sl ptS hC 679 GC6
n prr3Sk H8r (7rShWC9 grW9a tS3rF ptS 
A8th Frhr6RW9rS h8r gr8tPWC6 CG crCcsr 
W9 t c6WSC9 , h8r W9FWPWF7tsS C6 h8r r9PW6C9, 
Rr9h%k yh h8r r9F CG SWFtVS h8r hrSh 
ptS S7Scr9FrFk vW9F C7h p8th 8tccr9rFk 
[cC9SC6rF gV DtRc7S 6Ca6tR st99W9ak 
T6W9a VC76 s79U8 t9F t G6Wr9Fk
GAY STUDENTS AT PITT ARE
ScC9SC6W9a t :stPt9Fr6 c79U8 ct6hV: G6CR 
eoo cR hC moo tR C9 1t97t6V 5oh8 W9 
h8r W9r 2CCR CG h8r 49WPr6SWhV CG 
WhhSg76a8 [h7Fr9h 49WC9k vCCFl v79l t9F 
It9UW9ak srtSr UCRr t9F g6W9a t G6Wr9Fk
CLASSIFIED 4
Birch Bayh for President Committee organ
W&rF th DL4k Dtss bON,Nb5b tGhr6 .ook
Oakland apt. 2 Floors, 4 bedrooms, mod
r69 3WhU8r9$ FWS8ptS8r6$ G769WS8rF t9F Ut6w
crhrF$ aCCF GC6 b,N crCcsrk Dtss IWt9r 
bO5,.Oook
%
COUNSELORS, over 19 for unique over
9Wa8h S7RRr6 UtRc W9 r99tk ygsr hC W9w
Sh67Uh C9r CG GCssCpW9a Athr6S3WW9al At, 
hr6StGrhVl yh8srhWUSl qCsGl Hr99WSl D8rRw
WSh6Vl [UWr9Url 2WGsr6Vl JtR 2tFWCl 2CU3rhw
6Vl WC9rr6W9al C6 y6hS ? D6tGhSk A6Whr 
DtRc IW6rUhC6 m5O 2rF 2tRgsr6 I6WPrl 
xtGtVrhhr JWssl r99tk meMMMMk
Prof., 38, seeks congenial female company
GC6 WhhSg76a8 [VRc8C9V UC9Ur6h 1t9k mO 
zTV6C9j[U87Rt99 Lt9G6rFKk TCMmMl xr, 
RC9hl tk mbO.mk
Earn up to $80 per month for 4 hours of
VC76 hWRr cr6 prr3k
IC9thr stSRt th [r6t,HrU TWCsCaWUtsS 
5MoN vC6grS yPrk (NexthC y6gV:S W9 Bt3w
st9FKk Bcr66OM. tR , Noo cR LC9,H876Sk  
OM. tR , Moo cR v6Wk 8C9r bOn$5meo
ROOMMATE WANTED: M or F; clean,
(7Wrhl t9F 6rScC9SWgsrk [8t6r st6ar SRt6hsV 
G769k zC9r grF6CCRK tchk pjLk W9 [(k JWss 
t9F UC9Pr9Wr9hk QO. cr6 RCk z7hWsSl W9UkK 
? SrUk Frck .nm,.Obmk
Do You Know About 
Food Service Coupon Books?
yIdy0Hyqu[
Save 50% on Meals 
Purchasing Power, Even When Your Funds 
Run Low
vB2 AJBL
Anyone  Students, Staff or Faculty Members 
Any Individual Interested in a Reduction Food 
Expenditures at y9V Food Service Facility.
ydyfxyTxu
Skibo Room 201 
Book Store
COST:

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANJanuary 20,1976Page 5
Konopka Plans 
Reorganization
by Paul Smith
It was announced last week by Student 
Government President Doug Konopka that 
the twelve member Senate Review Com
mittee had almost finished its work on 
changes of the Senate and will shortly pre
sent its recommendations on the reorgani
zation of the Student Senate. The 
committee, made up of senators and non
senators, has decided to streamline and 
make . . Senate more effective by re
ducing from its present forty-three mem
bers in seven constituencies to fifteen to 
nineteen senators, the exact number being 
determined by a percentage basis, by the 
enrollment of the university and the size 
of the college. There will be five or six 
constituencies, the exact number depend
ing on whether AMS is placed in CIT. 
Undergraduate constituencies will include 
CFA, CIT, MIS, H&.SS, and possibly AMS. 
The graduate constituency will be made up 
of GSIA and SUPA. Furthermore, reorgan
ization plans will extend to the internal 
organs of Senate, since under the present 
system, according to Doug Konopka, .. 
A senator can be on Senate, loose his iden
tity, and be dung nothing. Senate would 
have a chairperson, a five member Finance 
Committee; a new committee (Ways and 
Means); and one-member Public Rela
tions, Rules, and Academic Committees. 
Ways and Means would run all the service 
projects under the auspices of Student 
Senate; Academic would watch over the 
SACs and would act on any academic com
plaints; and Public Relations would inform 
the campus of the actions of the Senate.
Along with the changes in structure are 
proposals that would give greater power to 
the Senate, such as veto power to the 
president (which could be overridden by
Konopka: 'The students will get a chance to 
decide...
a 3/4 vote of the Senate). All clubs funded 
by the Senate would be subject to auditing 
every semester and could be subpoenaed 
for any and all financial records. Also, the 
Student Senate President and the Student 
Government President would have to ad
dress the student body every semester, 
with a sort of. State of the Campus 
message.
Konopka explained, Sometime early 
this week the Review Committee will meet 
and, perhaps, pass on the proposal to the 
Senate, where it will be discussed and pos
sibly amended. Then, it will be placed on a 
referendum ballot at which time the stu
dents would have the chance to decide 
whether it should be adopted .. . Its time 
something should be done. Every semester 
its the same thing. There is high interest at 
the beginning but after a few weeks sena
tors stop coming and nothing gets 
done ... I would like to see the (Senate 
Review) Committee approve the changes; if 
not it will still go to Senate. If they wont 
put it on a referendum, then well go to the 
students. Its time something is done no 
matter what: The students will get a 
chance to decide the future of theSjnate.
Inspection
by Joan Konkle
A study recently completed by CMU 
students has received national attention by 
showing that Pennsylvanias twice-yearly 
automotive inspection is almost worthless, 
while it costs motorists an estimated 130 
million dollars annually. Involved in the 
study were seniors enrolled in the Engin
eering and Public Affairs (EPA) program 
and first-year SUPA students. In past years 
the projects undertaken by these students 
has influenced legislation, and because 
34 other states have inspection systems 
similar to Pennsylvanias, it is certain that 
this study will receive attention from gov
ernment officials across the nation.
By using national and state figures, it 
was found that only 3-15 percent of 
traffic accidents are caused by vehicle mal
functions, motorists cause 60 percent of all 
traffic accidents and an addtional 30 per
cent are caused by bad weather. Thus, 
the goal of the inspections-to decffease 
traffic accidents--can only be realized in a 
very limited way under any circumstances 
since mechanical failure causes such a small 
proportion of accidents.
To determine just how well the inspec
tions were done a car with 13 major de
fects, any one of which was enough to 
cause the car to be rejected, was taken to 
20 randomly selected inspection stations. 
The results of these inspections seem to 
indicate that it is normal for the inspec
tions to be so badly done that several, or 
even many, major defects go undetected. 
Thus, the inspections apparently can do 
little to decrease the number of traffic 
accidents.
The 20 stations involved on the average, 
found only four of the 13 defects, and one 
station found no defects at all and passWorthless
ed the car. Strangely enough, the stations 
found,on the average /wo defects that were 
nonexistent or were not on the states 
inspection list. Therefore at best the stu
dents concluded that state inspections are 
only 50 to 75 percent effective in spotting 
and correcting mechanical defects in cars, 
and that even detecting those weaknesses 
did little to decrease accidents since the 
six states without inspections had * o more 
accidents due to mechanical failure than 
Pennsylvania.
The projects conducted each year by 
EPA and SUPA are obviously very valuable 
indeed; they provide students with a very 
meaningful learning experience and per
form a public service as well.
Dr. Robert Dunlap, Head of E&PA Projects
ATTENTION
Volkswagen Owners
C76 9rt6rShl RCSh UC9Pr9Wr9h t7h8C6W&rF 
UtRc7S Frtsr6 W9PWhrS VC7 hC PWSWhk 
r6SC9tsW&rFl rGGWUWr9h Sr6PWUr gV Prh6t9 
hrU89WUWt9Sk
SEE THE FUEL EFFICIENT 76 VW LINE UP
PARTS & SERVICE 
OPEN SATURDAYS FOR YOUR CONVENIENCE
B4 Dy0 yvvB2I y 0uA B2 
4[uI Dy2 yH LUquu:[
1E3S>
AUTHORIZED VW & 
MAZDA DEALER
nbeo Ak xfTu2H yduk 
fHH[T42qJl 
IB2LB0H 
5M5,mboo
The Night Porter
at 6:30.9:00 & 11:30
xy[H Hy0qB f0 y2f[ 
f[ y xfqJH,Juy2HuI 2BL 
DBLy2uI HB HJu 0fqJH B2Hu2 
A.B. FILM COMMITTEE 0uA[AuuZ
I4u HB y0BHJu2 Lf[Jy f0 [Jff0q 
BJ DyxD4HHy 
Afxx 0BH Tu [JBA0 HJf[ v2fIy 
fH[ 2uxyDuLu0H Afxx Tu

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-January 20, 1976
Van Horne OK's Housing
continued from page 1
17, 2) Students draw numbers from a 
box containing those numbers speci
fically for their priority group, the 
dates for this are April 5 for seniors, 
April 6 for juniors, and April 7 for soph
omores, and 3) students pick from avail
able rooms, in ascending numerical order.
Student Court
by Alyson L. Abramowitz
There is recourse for students who are 
unable to get a decision about something 
from the various departments of CMU and 
their respective Deans. Called the student 
courts, they were established a number of 
years ago to deal with the important prob
lem of tree painting. Yes tree painting! It 
seems 7-E has a great desire to paint the 
tree outside their window, and not one 
knew where to go with complaints about 
it. The idea of a student court had been 
floating in the heads of various Deans and 
this was the prime time. So . . .a student 
court was to be established. It was decided 
to separate the court into three separate 
parts: one for commuters, one for the 
fraternities and sororities, and one for 
those who live in the dorms. Theyve 
handled various student problems over the 
years including that tree painting problem.
This year a proposal has been made to 
combine the courts into one student court 
which could handle all student problems. 
This would have an advantage in that if a 
problem overlapped between a commuter 
and a dorm resident or in some other man
ner, there would be less problems as to who 
would give the verdict. At this point, 
a decision will be made next week in 
regard to the possible combination.
Students who are not currently in 
residence may be placed on a waiting list 
to be served on a first-come ;first-served 
basis. After paying a twenty-five dollar 
deposit, students will be allowed to par
ticipate in room draw as space becomes 
available. A refund may be requested if 
accommodations are not available, or the 
non-resident may remain on the waiting 
list, in which case they will be notified as 
spaces become available. If a student ac
cepts a room offer, he must pay the rest 
of his one hundred dollar room deposit.
Room retention (squatters rights) 
will be in effect only for people who wish 
to stay in an undergraduate dorm (not 
apartments) with the same roomate(s) 
all of whom have valid room draw num
bers. Coops may be kept by a student 
group for next year when one hundred 
percent occupancy is guaranteed.
Figures for the re-evaluation of 
room occupancy levels have not yet been 
tallied, but will be released in the near 
future from the Campus Services Board.
This final document is much more 
optimistic than its predecessors which inIBM 360- part of C-MU's Computation Center
dicated a high possibility of not enough 
space for current residents. This situation 
was partly alleviated by setting an upper 
limit on the number of rooms reserved 
for freshmen.
Some Sports...
continued from page 3
and should not, indeed cannot be over
looked. I have always been an advocate of 
the necessity of excerise and physical 
activity in the development of the com
plete individual, as any one who knows me 
will readily attest. However, my feelings in 
this area are surpassed by a belief in the 
rights of the individual, specifically a ma
jority of individuals. In this case, I feel it is 
obvious that the majority can best be 
served by a radical change in the athletic 
philosophy of this university. That money 
is coming in from somewhere, and can be 
better applied somewhere else. More peo
ple stand to benefit from handball and 
paddle tennis courts, outside basketball 
hoops, improvements in the tennis courts, 
and the like than presently benefit from 
varsity athletics. It has been admitted that 
such things are needed. Buy them. Allow a 
maximum of people to enjoy the possible 
results of athletic competition. With an 
athletic budget like the one we have this 
year applied to IM sports and improvement 
and expansion of university facilities over 
the next few years, the result could be a 
long step toward providing something for 
nearly everyone at CMU. Its a step which I 
feel should be taken.
Computers Serve University
continued from page 1
during the mid-sixties, but were separated 
in 1968 with the Center retaining the IBM 
360 and the UNIVAC 1108, and the 
Comp. Sci. Dept, developing a multiple 
DEC PDP-10 facility. The confusion may 
have been caused by many contributing 
factors, among which the most prominent 
cause is the use of Computation Center 
computers by the Comp. Sci. Dept, under
graduates.
The current computers available at the 
Center are three. The IBM 360/67 pro
vides time sharing, remote job entry, and 
general batch processing service to all types 
of users at CMU. All administrative data
processing is performed on the 360/67. 
The UNIVAC 1108 is used mostly by re 
searchers who require large scientific com
putational capability. The DEC PDP-11/45 
dedicated to RSTS/E provides easy to use 
time-sharing facilities via the language 
BASIC PLUS. The other PDP-1 Is serve as 
communications switches tor remote mini 
computers, with more than 100 terminals 
the three central processors.
With whats available, Dr. McCredie 
says we are running short on equipment. 
During the period July 1  Dec. 31,1975,
computer usage at CMU has increased al
most 18% over the same period during 
1974. The UNIVAC 1108, which is for
ENGINEERS
Clairol will be here to Interview 
for SUMMER & PERMANENT 
OPPORTUNITIES.
Clairol has positions in operations management for grad
uating and junior year engineering students. If you are 
interested in a career which offers challenge, responsibility 
and outstanding growth opportunities, then meet with our 
representative:
JAM MR Y 27-??)
xyDuLu0H
OFFICE
GKWf,DAY
Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F
liVlNi,t'XKt
special runs, is the only one not being 
overused. He emphasizes that the real 
crunch is in the larger computing courses 
of over 300 students. The jams arent 
so much cause by the lack of equipment, 
but mainly by the fact that students often 
wait until the night before assignments are 
due before using the computer. The result 
is that we get very high peaks. A year 
ago the PDP-11 was added to the Centers 
computers to relieve some of the pressure.
Looking into the very near future, Dr. 
McCredie envisions no immediate plans to 
get new equipment. "Its going to be 
crowded for computation students this 
semester. Teachers are trying to alleviate 
the pressure by having, as much as possible, 
assignments not due on the same day. The 
Center itself is and has been updating its 
equipment constantly by the addition of 
new discs, terminals, etc. It is trying to 
operate to capacity for as long as it can.
As for how long it can last, Dr. McCre
die says that the Center now has 10 year 
old equipment. In a long-term sense, there 
is discussion concerning the next genera
tion of computers. There is no definite 
proposals as of yet, but there are two or
ganizations now in existence which will 
have much to say about the final decision: 
Computing Policy Committee (composed 
of representatives from the various con
cerned depts.) and Computer Board 
(composed of various university Vice 
Provosts who must approve the new 
equipment). Dr. McCredie sees the major 
change coming in approximately J years. 
He concludes with we couldnt last 
more than that.
by Mark Segal 
McCredie. Vice Provost of Information Services

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN1t97t6V nok meNbitar N
?Who's Coach?: Klausing Plans Ahead
continued from page 1
read the articles, he commented.
Klausing is reported to be one of three 
candidates for the West Virginia Head 
Coaching post. WTAE (TV-4) reported 
Sunday evening that WVU would make its 
decision public early this week.
* Further investigation of this matter was 
hindered by the unavailability of Klausings 
home telephone number. Other sources 
were likewise unavailable for comment.
continued from page 1
McMichaels new appointment will have 
a definite effect on his involvement in 
other areas on campus. I recognize that 
after this semester my involvement in EPA 
is going to be reduced. The status of the 
Civil Engineering department in the univer
sity is his first concern.
. McMichael received ms PhD in Civil 
Engineering from California Institute of 
Technology in 1962. He satisfied hismiliChuck Klausing, CMUs Head Football 
Coach, announced plans for CMUs FootHe wants to initiate a weight lifting 
program tor the football players. Besides 
this he is encouraging the players to par
ticipate in intrarmirals.
Klausing, who is known for his recruit
ing abilities has started an active recruiting 
program. Im enthused by the interest of 
the present and prospective students, he 
commented. When asked about the size of 
next years squad he said that it would be 
larger than this years He explained that
tary obligations in the Public Health Ser
vice. From 1965 to 1967, he taught at 
Princeton. I decided to leave teaching 
at that time to become a full-time re
searcher, McMichael explained. In 1967, 
he came to Mellon Institute to work. 
When the EPA program started in 1972 
McMichael was hired jointly by Dr. Steven 
Fenves (Civil Eng. Dept.) and Dr. Robert 
Dunlap (Engineering and Public Affairs 
Dept.). Ironically, Dr. McMichael has 
replaced the man that hired him
it is necessaiy to start working with a 
large freshman squad to develop a winning 
program.
Klausing also mentioned that he will be 
naming his staff in the next few days. 
Dennis Morabito, the present Sports InFormation Director and one of Gasparellas 
Assistant Football Coaches will be staying 
for sure. Banner confirmed this statement 
earlier in the week.
I believe in participation, Klausing 
stated in regard to last weeks article in the 
TARTAN concerning the cost of sports, 
I think theres a place for both intramurals and varsity.
CHUCK KLAUSING IS________
(a) Both of the above
(b) None of the above
(c) CMU's Head Football Coach
(d) WVU's Head Football Coach
(e) Head Custodian at Skibo
(f) The Steelers Head Football 
Coach
McMichael Named Head
m
Think aboutyour future.
At the National Security Agency, we think 
about your future ... because our future and 
the future of this country's security depend 
on having a team of intelligent, motivated 
people. People like you. At NSA you will 
help design and develop systems that are 
vital to our nation . .. secure communica
tions and computer systems which transmit, 
receive and analyze crucial information.
Y our career responsibilities will often 
involve advancing technologies that take 
you beyond the known and accepted 
boundaries of knowledge. Imagination, 
resourcefulness and a real desire for career 
development are essential qualifications for:
Aftefrh
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS: to carry out 
research, design, development testing and 
evaluation of sophisticated, large-scale 
communications and EDP devices 
using the latest equipment for advanced 
research within NSA's fully instrumented 
laboratories.
COMPUTER SCIENTISTS: to participate 
in systems analysis and systems program
ming related to advanced scientific and 
operational applications. Software design 
and development is included, as well as 
support in hardware design, development 
and modification.
LINGUISTS: Slavic, Near Eastern and 
Oriental languages are particularly valuable 
in a wide variety of translation, transcription, 
analysis and documentation projects. 
Spoken fluency is not essential, but knowl
edge of idiomatic, colloquial and dialectal 
variations is desirable.^
Come find your future at NSA ... today.
Schedule an NSA interview through your 
Placement Office or write: Chief, College 
Relations Branch, National Security 
Agency, Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 
20755. Attn: M321. An Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F.
NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY
We do.
Trustees Hear 
Complaints
continued from page 1
the improvements at the station. They 
have gotten a faculty advisor from the 
Electrical Engineering Department for ad
vice and counsel, and now have arranged 
it so that some students working there 
can get academic credit from the EE De
partment. I think the direction WRCT is 
iaking at the present time is the way they 
should be going and the solution to their 
problem in the long range is to be com
pletely run by the Student Government 
Corporation, which, I may add is also im
proving this year."
Near the close of spring semester last 
year, plans were announced to convert 
the Tartan Grill to a theater over the 
summer, but obviously, that fell through. 
Doug was asked about present plans. In 
response he said, No one has been con
tacted for suggestions this year and I 
think thats bad. For example, a plan had 
called for putting a deli in the Kiltie Cof
feehouse, but Sue Christian, Director of 
Campus Activities didnt know about tms 
until they had dropped the plans, and she 
is supposed to know everything that is 
happening in Skibo.
Doug responded to a recent Tartan 
article concerning the crime rate on cam
pus by saying,4! think Mr.MichaelCorletti, Director of Security, and his men have 
done a fantastic job. As the Tartan re
ported last week, they have reduced 
crime on this campus by 30 percent. 
However, Im going to recommend that 
the University add a few more security 
officers, because even with the decrease 
in crime. I feel they are needed.**
The final things which Doug plans to 
speak to the Board about are the 
Teaching Assistants and the continuing 
H&SS crisis. **I have several complaints 
which I feel need to be considered by the 
Board. First, in some of the colleges 
many students feel that they are not get
ting te full value of their dollar. Many 
courses are being taught by TAs whom 
the students can not understand, and its 
really bad when learning has to stop so 
that everything can be translated. This is 
an intolerable situation which I feel 
should be remedied as soon as possible. 
The other problem concerns the H&SS 
situation. The students, from what 1 can 
see, feel inferior and are wondering what 
will happen to them and their college, 
and whom they can trust. From the 
Board, I would like to see a firm commit
ment to them so the students can stop 
wondering is this is the last year for their 
school and go back to being full time stuients.
UNIVERSITY 
COPY 
SERVICE
HIGHEST QUALITY XEROX COPIES
(All work unconditionally guaranteed)
LOWEST PRICES
Smgte copies per original -r 5c
Multiple copies per origmai:
1st copy 4c
2nd-50th copies 3c
51st Zc
NO EXTRA CHARGE FOR:
collating  3-hole punched 
colored paper  legal size
Low cost bookbinding 
Quality offset printing 
209 N Craig St. 681 5411

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTAN-January 20, 1976
Is "Sherlock" Rotten or Wonderfully Brave?
by Monica Gross
With Blazing Saddles at the Strand and 
The Adventure of Sherlock Holmes Smart
er Brother next door at the Kings Court 
confusion might arise concerning the ob
vious contrasts between these two films, es
pecially when the connecting link of 
Young Frankenstein is absent. In Blazing 
Saddles Mel Brooks hellzapoppin-I-loveyour-entire-face humour was the domin
ating force; in Young Frankenstein it was 
tempered by Gene Wilders more restrained 
dementia; and in Sherlock Holmes it is 
"Wilder who decidedly holds the reins and 
with a much gentler touch, as he writes, 
directs, and stars after the authoritative 
tradition of Chaplin.
Sherlock Holmes is put into motion by 
a comfortable plot - the theft of a myster
ious state document upon which the fate 
of the nation naturally rests. Our Sherlock 
is a good traditional one portrayed by 
Douglas Wilmer, that British actor not un
familiar to the deerstalker and pipe. 
Holmes decides to handle his case under
cover and so employs his younger and 
achingly jealous brother, Wilders Sigerson 
Sigy Holmes, as an unwitting decoy. 
Soon the plot can be safely left in the 
background while the story of Sigys ad
venture into romance unfolds.
This film has a misleading title. It is not 
a spoof or satire of the Sherlock Holmes 
genre although that mystique is lam
pooned. It is rather a film about how lovers 
and other confused individuals can perhaps 
be smarter than the analytical and brilliant 
elite represented by Holmes. Sigy is in a 
way smarter than his brother, if not at the 
beginning, certainly by the end of the film. 
Embracing love, he opens himself to inse
curity; but insecurity is the price of life 
and Wilder admits it. He has carefully cre
ated his script not only from an under
standing of his personal strengths, but also 
those of his immediate co-stars, Marty 
Feldman and Madeline Kahn. It is not a 
dictatorial script or direction, but rather 
Wilder slyly brings out the things inherent 
in each personality which will endear them 
to us. So when Kahn as mediocre musichall artiste Jenny Hill presents herself as 
simultaneously funny and sad, flashes 
of her brassy but vulnerable Trixie Delight in 
Paper Moon support her wry self-com
ment. Likewise she tells Sigy, Wanna 
know somethin, if you had a stronger chin 
youd be a pretty good looker. How many 
writers have felt compelled to point out 
Wilders perfectly fine weak chin?
In point of fact, Wilder has indeed never 
looked more attractive or appealing. His 
self-esteem must be growing with his fame, 
and this foray into direction will hopefully 
enlarge both. He has made a very special 
film which will perhaps be disappointing 
to many. There is little of his old, I'm 
wet! Im in pain! And Pm still hysterical!! 
as in The Producers. It lingers in the open
ing scenes where the Smarter is empha
sized with a hysterical edge, but it is gradu
ally replaced by a more mature insecurity 
as Sigy quietly accepts his failure at sleuth
ing and realizes his more important talent
for loving. When he is blissfully unaware of 
the impending doom of his beloved at the 
hands of the rope-sawing villain he is al
most literally blinded by love, and his 
chance for pure reason is destroyed by an 
emotional attachment. It actually takes a 
handful of sand in the face from his de
tached brother to get his intellect back on 
the job. Introspective amid the audience 
uproar, Sigy makes his career choice.
Marty Feldman gives a good perfor
mance as Orville Sacker, Sigys second
hand Watson, the man with the photo
graphic sense of hearing. There is less ex
ploitation of his physical humor, as in 
Young Frankenstein, and more use of his 
subtler comedic talents. Wilder, Kahn and 
Feldman all have very definite physical pre
sences, distinctive from the norm. Bounc
ing wildly together in the outrageous 
Kangaroo Hop they look perfectly in 
tune, and a shot through Sigys garret win
dow makes them appear cozy and warm in 
their insanity, like a Rain In Spain gone 
wackles.
One will not find a great deal of Mel 
Brooks in Sherlock Holmes. Wilder learned 
a lot from Brooks, and he shows his debt 
to him in such scenes as the Gambetti/ 
Moriarity hair-pulling spat. He also knows 
enough to sell his first film with some more 
crude business. But in other places the ex
travagance of a period piece creates pro
blems. The 1890s London trappings and 
foggy atmosphere are evoked with little 
technicolor exaggeration in keeping with 
the gentler quality of the film, but in the 
mock-Grand Opera sequence, Wilder seems
to be overly concerned with appearance to 
the exclusion of the frenetic disarray ne
cessary for its comic possibilities. Here a 
wittier rewrite and tighter working out of 
stage business could have made it truly excrutiating. The gun that stays inevitably 
trained on Gambetti worked better in The
Gold Rush and should have been left there. 
As it is, this opera sequence is still very 
funny, and shots of Marty Feldman blithly sprinking sedatives like wedding rice into 
the very sexy wine are enough to keep you 
laughing through the confusion.
One of Wilders strong points has been 
his appreciation of children as comedians 
and lovers. Sigy caught with a face full of 
chocolates, Roy Kinnear smart-assedly 
spitting out a mouthful of potato-chips, 
and the marvelous trouserless dance scene 
all must have come from some precocious 
five-year-olds mind. Wilder has always had 
a bit of the child in his open loving and 
vulnerability; his Fox in The Little Prince 
was innocence itself. While Woody Allen 
begs love as the mournful loser, Gene 
Wilder never seems to expect it, as he is too 
involved viewing the world with a com
pletely unguarded sensitivity. In a recent 
interview he said, I dont think I have a 
memorable face. I have a memorable 
heart. And this excess of heart is what 
gives Wilder, like Chaplin, that unbearable 
look of soul and childlike sincerity.
Besides Feldman and Kahn, Wilder has 
used a few other old working partners in 
this film. The nice vaudeville tunes and 
other music are provided by John Morris, 
who goes back to The Producers and 
Springtime For Hitler, and there is Dom De 
Luise who, as Gambetti, the gusty Italian 
singer, is thankfully not allowed his usual 
quota of eyerolls and little squeals. Leo ^ 
McKern as Moriarity, however, is exagger
ated and somewhat irritating, except per
haps in the final fencing scene and in the 
Gambetti fight. His accent never seems to 
know what it should be. Roy Kinnear, the 
long-suffering servant in Richard Lesters 
Three Musketeers, and now Moriaritys 
longer-suffering aide de camp, gets a nice 
spot with a giant glove. V
People will undoubtedly compare this 
film with last years Young Frankenstein. 
Both got their inspiration from great fic
tion; both fictional sources, in addition, 
have rich film heritages to spoof, and both 
films have their stars. But the direction 
each film took is quite different, as are the 
results. Young Frankenstein has always 
seemed a shaky film to me, rather uncomfortable due to its reconciliation of two 
mens styles. Both Brooks and Wilder are 
very talented comedians, but they have 
grown somewhat apart, and Brooks seems 
now to bring out only a less interesting and 
regressive side of Wilder, pushing for his 
hysterical shtick. But there are a lot more 
signs of maturity in Wilders art, and if you 
are looking for Mel Brooks in this film, * 
dont be disappointed to find an embryon
ic Gene Wilder.
This is not to say the film isnt funny; it 
is hilarious, but more like a playful and 
steady tickling than hard fingers in the ribs, 
and you leave it with perhaps more than an 
exercised diaphragm. Wilders greatest pro
blem indeed was not being unfunny, but 
rather, the possibility of lapsing into the ^ 
sentimental. This does not occur as both he 
and Kahn are too self-critical to get senti
mental, even though their hearts are bared.
No lovey-dovey goo could adhere to 
Kahns twisted-tough features; she is not 
one for living happily ever after.
It will probably be a number of years 
before Wilder attempts another project 
this arduous. He has put himself out on the 
limb in many ways with this one, but hope
fully his finished product will give him 
enough additional confidence to continue 
exploring and defining his very own and 
very special style of comedy and pathos. 
True, this film often has a silliness which 
belies its creators seriousness, and some 
artistic selling-out for easy acceptance, but 
the chances that were taken balance out 
the problems. Wilder seems bursting with 
ideas, and the future should therefore be, 
as his Sigerson says, very exciting. The Ad
ventures of Sherlock Holmes Smarter 
Brother may be smarter than you think.
LSAT PREPARATION SEMINAR  Seminar leaders are practicing 
attorneys dedicated to modern learning concents. Concentration on 
eliminating technical testing mistakes. Once enrolled you may at
tend an additional seminar at no charge if you are not satisfied with 
your last scores.
DATES AND LOCATIONS  January 31 - February 1 - Robert 
Morris College, Downtown Campus. Limited space available. You 
must register now to confirm your space in class.
REGISTRATION AND FEE  Extensive weeknd course including all 
course materials $85.00.
MAILING ADDRESS  TPS, Eleanor Waldfogle, 203 Siebert Road, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15237. OR PHONE: 412 366-5132 COLLECT
^(lllltdlllfllUltllllfttfllttllHlimiHIIUlKMIIimtttllltMinillllllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH^
| Cash for your Records!.
| Tired of listening to your old 
1 albums? Let us sell them for you 
I Bring them to Entropy, near opening * 
| or closing, for resale.
Hours: Sun.-Thurs. 10:30 - 9:30 
| Fri. Sat. -10:30 - 8:30
, , , ___________________________________,___
Sigy Holmes (Gene Wilder) investigates a prime witness (Madeline Kahn) and finds true bliss in "The 
Adventures or Sherlock Holmes Smarter Brother"
232323534823532323234823235323532389534853535353232323235323482323
53485323482353484848532348234853485353

---------------------------------------------------

HJu Hy2Hy0iJanuary 20, 1976Page 9
4415-Fifth Avenue  Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213 
Telephone 621-7700
Singles: $18-$29 Doubles: $26-$33 
Free Parking For Overnight Guests 
Children Under 16 Years Of Age 
Stay Free In Room With Parents
MIDNIGHT
SHOWS
FRI. & SAT. 
JAN. 23 & 24
' , VSTRANDiPfflP
Oakland/ 681 -6100JH
Don Quixote is the daffy hero of Man 
of La Mancha, Cervantes classical opti
mist translated with his sidekick Sancho 
Panza into theatrical celebrities in the mus
ical comedy hit which plays four shows 
only, Feb. 9-11, at Heinz Hall.
David Atkinson, from the original 
Broadway production, plays the title role 
of La Mancha, which winds up Heinz 
Halls first and highly successful Broadway 
Theater Series.
Remaining tickets are on sale at the 
Heinz Hall box office.
Two of the greatest names in show busi
ness, Tony Bennett with the Woody Her
man Band, will play four shows, March 
25-27, with both matinee and evening 
performances on the final Saturday, in 
Heinz Hall.
The great French mime artist Marcel 
Marceau arrives to give one performance 
only, Wednesday, March 10, 8 pm, in 
Heinz Hall.
Pittsburghs first 24-hour Hairathon will 
be held Saturday, January 24, starting at
9 pm.
It will be held at Hairtique, one of the 
citys leading hair salons, with every penny 
of proceeds going to the 1976 Heart Fund 
campaign.
Hairtique is located at 100 Smithfield 
Street and First Avenue. It is opetated by 
Andy Lazzari, Chris Powell and Jimmy 
Rocco who are nationally known in the 
world of beautiful hair.
You can make an appointment or walk 
in for a hair cut, permanent, body wave, 
frosting, highlighting and manicure. The 
beauty salon caters to men, women and 
youngsters.
Pittsburghs foremost hairdressers will 
take part in the Hairathon. Lassari said: 
We hope we' can keep busy for 24 hours 
and raise a lot of money for the Heart
David Atkinson as Don Quixote de la Mancha
Fund.
A similar Hairathon was held in Charles
ton, West Virginia last year and it raised 
$3,000 for the fight against heart disease.
The phone number at Hairtique is 765- 
2026.
Moving into the Bicentennial Year 1976,
the Pittsburgh Opera will present Robert 
Wards The Crucible at Heinz Hall on Jan
uary 29 and 31. This Pulitzer Prize winning 
opera by Ward and his librettist Bernard 
Stambler is based on Arthur Millers play
of the same name.
Tickets are available at the Pittsburgh 
Opera Office, call 281-0912 or the Heinz 
Hall Box Office, call 281-5000.
Pittsburgh Artists Gallery Winter Group 
Show - Jan. 23  Feb. 5. On Friday eve
ning, January 23rd, 1976, the Winter 
Group Show of Pittsburgh Artists, Inc. will 
open in the gallery at 4535 Forbes Ave. 
in Oakland. On display will be paintings, 
sculpture, photography, prints and draw
ings by many of the best local artists. Gal
lery hours are 11 am to 6 pm, Tuesday 
thru Saturday, Sundays and Mondays by 
appointment only. All proceeds will help 
to support Pittsburgh Artists, Inc. For 
more information or an appointment to 
visit the gallery call 681-1828.
Singer/songwriter Dan Fogelberg and Fools 
Gold to headline at the Syria Mosque on 
Sunday, January 25th at 8 pm. Tickets 
are priced at $4.50, $5.50 and $6.50 and 
are on sale at all National Record Marts. 
Produced by Electric Factory Concerts and 
Dick Clark Concerts.
Pittsburgh Symphony residency at Penn
State spotlights world premiere conducted 
by opera luminary Sarah Caldwell. The 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra will be in 
residency at Penn State University Febru
ary 2-8 for rehearsals and concerts culmin
ating in the World Premiere of the opera 
Be Glad Then America by the Pulitzer 
Prize winning composer John La Montaine.
Pianist Lorin Hollander is the scheduled
guest soloist for the first concert series of 
the season by the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Chamber Orchestra. Associate conducter 
Donald Johanos will conduct as Mr. Hol
lander performs in the Heinz Hall concerts
on Friday, January 30, at 8:30 pm, and 
on Sunday, February 1, at 3 pm and 8 pm.
Mr. Hollander will play Beethovens 
Concerto No. 2 in B-flat, Opus 19. Other 
works on the program include Haydns 
Symphony No. 7 in C Major, Le Midi,  
Aaron Coplands Appalachian Spring and 
Frank Martins Cene erto for Seven Wind 
instruments, Strings and Percussion.
DORISANN 
GATALSKI
*SS*
\l*e< " \o"a
HOSPITALITY!
Who knows better than us? For banquets, confer
ences, parties, meetings and other faculty func
tions ... let us show you what we know! Distinc
tive meeting rooms accommodate anywhere from 
10 to 1,000. No detail will be left unattended as 
you relax and dine. We offer a tradition of excel
lence to the academic community. Remember... 
when it comes to hospitality and service ... we 
wrote the book!
m
\x>
HOTEL WEBSTER HALL
rPROFESSORS: take a
LESSON IN GRACIOUS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-January 20, 1976
Ballot Time For The American Music FinalistsMake 
June Lockhart Happy-Vote For The Groovy Stars Of Your Choice
POP/ROCK & ROLL MUSICCOUNTRY MUSICSOUL MUSIC
Favorite Male Vocaljst
John Denver 
Elton John 
Neil Sedaka
?
?
?
Favorite Male Vocalist
John Denver 
Merle Haggard 
Charlie Rich
?
?
?
Favorite Male Vocalist
James Brown ?
Smokey Robinson ? 
Barry White ?
Favorite Female Vocalist
Olivia Newton-John ?
Helen Reddy ?
Linds Ronstadt ?
Favorite Female Vocalist
Olivia Newton-John ?
Loretta Lynn ?
Linda Ronstadt ?
Favorite Female Vocalist
Aretha Franklin 
Gwen McCrae 
Minnie Riperton
?
?
?
Favorite Duo, Group or Chorus
Eagles ?
Earth, Wind & Fire ?
Tony Orlando & Dawn ?
Favorite Duo, Group or Chorus
Donny & Marie Osmond ?
Statler Brothers ?
Conway Twitty & Loretta Lynn ?
Favorite Duo, Group or Chorus
Earth, Wind & Fire ?
K.C. & The Sunshine Band ?
Gladys Knight & The Pips ?
Favorite Single
"Love Will Keep Us Together" ... Captain & Tennille ?
"Philadelphia Freedom" ... Elton John ?
"Rhinestone Cowboy" ... Glen Campbell ?
Favorite Single
"Before the Next Teardrop Falls" . .. Freddy Fender ? 
"Blue Eyes Crying in the Rain . .. Willie Nelson ?
"Rhinestone Cowboy" ... Glen Campbell ?
Favorite Single
"Get Down Tonight" . .. K.C. & The Sunshine Band 
"I Belong to You" ... Love Unlimited 
"Rockin' Chair" .. . Gwen McCrae
Favorite Album
"Elton John's Greatest Hits" . .. Elton John ? 
"Have You Never Been Mellow?" ...
Olivia Newton-John ?
"One of These Nights" ... Eagles ?
Favorite Album
"Back Home.Again" . . . John Denver ?
"Before the Next Teardrop Falls" .. . Freddy Fender ? 
"Have You Never Been Mellow?" ...
Olivia Newton-John ?
Favorite Album
"A Song for You" ... Temptations ?
"Fire" ... Ohio Players ?
"That's the Way of the World" . *. Earth, Wind & Fire ?
AB CONCERT COMMITTEE PRESENTS:JOHN HARTFORD """""
TICKETS:
52/COLLEGE I.D. 
S3/GEN. PUBLIC
yPtWstgsr 1t9k me 
yh
[3WgC f9GC6RthWC9 
IrS3
[yH42Iy 
1y0k nM 
yH O ? mo5o kLk 
[ZfTB Tyxx2BBL
? ? ?

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
TRAPEZE
TRAPEZE
TRAPEZETRAPEZE
TRAPEZETRAPEZETRAPEZETRAPEZETRAPEZETRAPEZE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-January 20,1976TRAPEZE
The Terror and the Poison
Part One
by Rick Costa
The hysterical bride in the penny arcade 
Screaming she moans, Ive just been made
Then sends out for the doctor who pulls down the shade 
Says, My advice is not to let the boys in
Now the medicine man comes and he shuffles inside 
He walks with a swagger and he says to the bride 
Stop all this weeping, swallow your pride 
You will not die, its not poison
-Bob Dylan, Tombstone Blues
Contrary to what Bob Dylan maintains in these 
lyrics, and he is not alone in this belief, rape is a serious 
crime, so serious that Susan Brownmiller is justified in 
devoting a major volume, Against Our Will, to its causes 
and prevention. Most rape victims sustain some sort of 
physical injury during their attacks, and although statis
tics indicate that most rapists do not murder their vic
tims, tragic exceptions do occur. Of course, the rapemurders receive an inordinate amount of media atten
tion, for reasons that will become apparent.
More important, Brownmiller maintains, than the 
physical injuries most victims sustain is the long-range 
psychological damage. One of the worst after effects of 
the rape, according to many victims, was the feeling that 
they had lost control of their own destiny. One victim 
reports, The experience of rape is never out of my con
sciousness. After the rape, I was no longer a teacher or a 
student. I was only a rape victim. (Newsweek Novem
ber 10, 1975) Another younger victim of 14 states, 
I had just begun menstruation. I never menstruated 
again until I was 21. Many victims suffer a loss of selfrespect and agonizing guilt, blaming themselves, and 
some even commit suicide. Others lose trust in malefemale relationships and constantly fearing that the rap
ist will return, they become immobile and hesitant to go 
outdoors. Many women experience feelings of unremov
able contamination: This may sound odd to you, but 
for two years afterward, no matter how much I washed, 
I couldnt get the smell of come out of my hair, one 
victim reports. Another unfortunate occurrance is that 
the victim, if her name becomes known, is often ostra
cized, a result that understandably leads to even further 
psychological damage, by her community, which blames 
her for being attacked. One victim comments, I was left 
with a reputation that followed me throughout high 
school. Brownmiller contends that all women may 
suffer psychological disturbances from having to con
stantly fear since early childhood their being raped. 
When asked whether time had removed the effects of her 
attack, whether it had now become a distant although 
bad memory, one victim replies, I hate that fucker 
more today"than I did when it happened to me.
After Albert Desalvo, better known as the Boston 
Strangler, turned himself in, he revealed what his motive 
for raping had been, Attractiveness had nothing to do 
with it. It made me feel powerful. I was like any other 
normal guy, trying to make out. As absurd as this 
statement seems to be, the statement of a madman, 
Brownmiller maintains that it accurately reflects the 
pervasiveness of the male ideology of rape, which is 
her name for her theory of why men have raped women 
since they both came down from the trees. According 
to her, From prehistoric times to the present, rape has 
played a critical function. It is nothing more or less than 
a conscious process of intimidation by which all men 
keep all women in a state of fear. In other words, all 
men participate in the promulgation and enforcement of 
the male ideology of rape and all men accrue benefits 
from this process. In short, in Brownmillers view, De
salvo has definite similarities with normal guys. in 
that he was acting on cultui^l assumptions about women 
contained in the society as a whole.
These cultural assumptions about women form an in
tegral part of the male ideology of rape which postu
lates that men rape women solely as a means to show 
their power to other men. The mans forcible entry in
to the womans body became the vehicle of his victor
ious conquest over her being, the ultimate test of his 
superior strength, the triumph of his manhood. The 
man wants to show that he can forcibly control the des
tiny of another human. The woman is a mere'object or 
piece of property in this transaction between men. Men 
can exhibit their manhood by either raping a woman or 
by protecting their own piece of property from rape. It 
is at this point that rape becomes a crime - Rape enter
ed the law through the back door, as it were, as a prop
erty crime of men against men. The crucial factor is 
that the woman is viewed as an intermediary, an object.
Defining the ideology of rape in this manner allows 
Brownmiller ready explanations for several noticeable 
characteristics of rape. Men like to rape in gangs. This 
fact fits nicely into Brownmillers theory that men rape 
as a display for other men. She states, It is within the 
phenomenon of group rape that the male ideology is 
most strikingly evident. Numerical odds are proof of 
male bonding and of a desire to humiliate the victim be
yond the act of rape through the process of anonymous 
mass assault. Gang rape illustrates that men do not rape 
for sexual pleasure, but out of a need to be in a group 
while repeatedly degrading another person beyond the 
realm of reasonable sexual desire. Brownmiller also 
notes that gang rape facilitates the male penchant for 
relating their conquests of women. Even when the mem
ber of the gang rapes alone, the group reaction to his 
deed is present in his mind as a kind of superego.
Another characteristic of many rapes is the extra de
defilement that the victim is subjected to beyond the 
sexual assault, which offers further proof that men do 
not derive pleasure from the sex, but from the forcible 
humilation of the woman. In Menachem Amirs study 
of rape in Philadelphia, the victim was subjected to 
some form of extra insult beyond the simple rape in 
more than one-quarter of his cases. These include urin
ating, spitting or ejaculating on the victim or kicking 
and beating her after the rape. Sometimes matches are 
put out on the womans body. The most popular extra 
defilement is to insert a broomhandle or other object
JANUARY THURSIWm^FORUMS
22
PRISON LIFE: 
Would You Be On 
Your Best Behavior?
1C89 Dt66Cssl Irch CG SVU8CsCaV 
pWh8 h8r ;WRgt6FC 6WSC9 [h7FV 
[sWFr 6rSr9hthWC9
_ L I I .
Tnrrn
r niHn JnHHa
! 1 
1 : i !JL.......J......... 1...... * i
i...............- !...........
ooo
Can You Canoe 
In A Cement Canoe?
We Can: Prof Ed Krokosky. Physics
' o Prof Charles Good speed
o o ~ n 0 Civil Engineering
1230 
Wherrett Room 
Bring Lunch And A Friend
[cC9SC6rF gV DtRc7S 6Ca6tR st99W9a

---------------------------------------------------

TRAPEZE
THE TARTAN-January nol meNb,tar m5
into the womans vagina. Discussing the practice of in
flicting these gratuitous defilements, Brownmiller con
cludes, What these rapists were looking for was another 
avenue or orifice by which to invade and thus humiliate 
their victims physical integrity.
A final characteristic prevalent in many rapes, espec
ially during wartime, is the desire to rape the woman in 
front of her husband or in front of the children if the 
husband is unavailable. This is conclusive proof that rape 
is an act of communication between men. The reaction 
of the husband is also interesting. After the assault i$ 
over, the husbands usually reject the damaged property, 
whose defense had once been a source of their honor. 
Brownmiller tersely states, Divorce after rape is not 
uncommon.
After discussing the male ideology of rape, Brown
miller adds, Given the pervasive male ideology of rape 
a mirror-image female victim psychology could not help 
but arise. The principle tenet of the female ideology of 
rape, which Brownmiller claims is male supplied, is that  
women want to be raped, a myth which has been promi
nent since the story of Potiphars wife in the Old Testa
ment, in which Potiphars wife was indignant at Joseph 
for not sleeping with her and accused him of raping her. 
Brownmiller contends there are two reasons why men 
believe women want to be raped. This assumption would 
obviously assuage the guilt feelings of any rapist. Since 
it is unlikely that any rapist has sizable guilt feelings, her 
second reason is more substantial. In the ideology of the 
conqueror the conquered must ultimately acknowledge 
submission. She states, There is good reason for men to 
hold tenaciously to the notion that All women want to 
be raped. Because rape is an act that men do in the 
name of their masculinity, it is in their interest to believe 
that women also want rape done, in the name of femin
inity. It is a belief in the supreme rightness of male pow
er. This belief that women like to be raped accounts for 
Dylans, among others, less than serious dismissal of rape 
and for the advice, often purported to be expert, that 
men occasionally give women, If youre going to be 
raped, you might as well relax and enjoy it.
Brownmiller then has a long survey of the history of 
rape in order to provide factual validity of her previous 
theories concerning rape. She begins with anthropologi
cal speculations and asserts that one of the earliest 
forms of male bonding must have been the gang rape 
and not forage expeditions. Female fear of being raped 
led women to agree to the institution of marriage, so 
that they could be protected by one man against further 
gang rapes. Of course, the man did not offer his protec
tion services for free: The historic price of womens 
protection by man against man was the imposition of 
chastity and monogamy. Brownmiller then stands 
Marx, or more specifically Engels, on his head and claims 
that rape led to the formation of the concept of owner
ship. At this point, Brownmiller turns to more concrete 
anthropological data. Margaret Mead repeatedly found 
 the use of gang rape as a control mechanism to keep 
women in line. In another instance, Robert F. Murphy 
came across gang rape as a mechanism of social control 
when he studied the mens secret society of the Mundurucu Indians of Central Brazil. Mundurucu culture was 
strongly male-oriented, Murphy reported, and a Mundurucu woman was supposed to be docile and faithful 
to her husband. Brownmiller obviously means to draw 
a parallel between the society of the Mundurucus and 
that of contemporary America.
Attention then focuses on one of the principal villians 
of feminism for its pernicious although decisive influ
ence: Jewish biblical culture. Brownmillers belief in the 
importance of the myth of Potiphars unnamed wife has 
already beer^ mentioned, although the deceitful woman 
has earlier mention in the Bible. Reference to Potiphars 
wife has been made by judges and lawyers in this cen
tury. Brownmiller begins, When Moses received his 
tablets from God on the top of Mount Sinai, Thou 
shalt not rape was conspicuously missing. Only later in 
the Bible are laws against rape present. Brownmiller sees 
these laws as having two crucial characteristics. They 
were designed only to prevent social discord within a 
select community. The capture of females by force 
remained perfectly acceptable outside the tribe or city 
as one of the ready fruits of warfare. More important
ly, rape was only a crime if the woman involved was 
a virgin, the injury was perceived as inflicted on the hus
band or father of the woman and he was the one to re
ceive redress. In accord with the Old Testament notion 
of justice,  the father of a raped virgin was permitted to 
seize the vife of the rapist and violate her in turn. He
could also receive monetary compensation, usually equal 
to the bride price of a virgin. As late as the 12th century
A.D.,  the great Jewish theologian Maimonides was 
arguing that in his view a raped virgin had no right to 
receive monetary compensation, since her virginity 
was the property of her husband or father not herself.
During Christian Medieval times, rape was also a 
crime solely against virgins. Marriage was based on prop
erty and there were sharp demarcations between the so
cial classes. Therefore, a victim was encouraged to marry 
her rapist if they were both of the same social class and 
if the resulting property arrangement was beneficial to 
the domain of Church and King. On the other hand, 
if a member of the feudal class committed his crimes 
against anyone other than the king or a great lord, he 
was fairly safe from prosecution. As a further example 
of the equating of rape with the concept of property, 
Brownmiller notes  the custom of giving the manorial 
lord the right to take the virginity of the bride of anyone 
of his vassals or serfs unless the bride and bridegroom 
paid a specific amount of produce. In 1275, when 
Edward I enacted the Statute of Westminster, rape 
against non virgins first became a crime. Let it not be 
supposed, however, that Edward acted out of compas
sion for the victims, for the real purpose of the law was 
to consolidate political power in the hands of the
king. Brownmiller also comments, Permissible rape as 
an act of manhood infused the theories of courtly love 
propounded by the social arbiters of the Middle Ages. 
Two knights would duel over a woman and the winner 
could do with her as he pleased.
Brownmiller moves into a lenghty discussion of rape 
during war next. She asserts, In the act and in the ex
cuse, rape in war reveals the male psyche in its boldest 
form. In other words, rape during wartime has definite 
links with domestic occurrences. She adds, Down 
through the ages, triumph over women by rape became a 
way to measure victory, part of a soldiers proof of 
masculinity and success. Rape is a way for a soldier to 
indicate that he considers himself to be a member of a 
superior army, nation or race: Rape by a conqueror is 
compelling evidence of the conquereds status of mascu
line impotence. The act that is played out upon the vic
tim is a message passed between men - vivid proof of 
victory for one and loss and defeat for the other.
Brownmiller states that during war, Rape has noth
ing to do with the availability of willing women or 
prostitutes, as will be seen from the Vietman experi
ence. Sexual appeal has little to do with the act of rape. 
A mob turns to rape as an expression of power and dom
inance. Women are used as inanimate objects, to prove 
a point among men. The attitude of historians and re
porters to rape during wartime also interests Brown
miller. She points out the attitude of male reporters 
that an investigation of mass rape was a waste of time, 
an unimportant side issue. Historians, also usually male, 
tend to dismiss accounts of rape, after the war is over 
as mere political propaganda. The first example of rape 
in wartime that Brownmiller discusses is the raping of 
Scottish women by British and German troops dis
patched to put down the Highland rebels. She writes, 
Systematic rape of Highland women by English forces
during the occupation of Scotland fitted perfectly the 
pattern of national subjugation.
In true Bicentenial spirit, Brownmiller includes a 
section in which she discusses the rape of colonial wo
men by British troops during the Revolutionary period. 
The continuing sexual harrassment of Bostons women 
by the British forces was viewed by the patriots not as 
a series of unrelated, irrational acts performed by bois
terous soldiers, but as an integral part of colonial op
pression. The Continental Congress concluded that 
these abuses reflected the attitude of a soldiery to
wards a people whom they had been taught to look upon not as freeman, defending their rights on principle, 
but as desperadoes and profligates who have risen up 
against law and order in general and wish the subver
sion of society itself.
Next on Brownmillers agenda are the wars between 
the American Indians and the settlers. When the settlers 
first arrived on the Eastern seaboard the Indians did not 
rape the European women. Brownmiller attributes this 
anomaly to the fact that the Europeans first came into 
contact with the Iroquois, a most remarkable nation 
whose structure was based on a matrilineal foundation 
in which women played an important political role. 
The racist settlers did not return the courtesy, however, 
and soon Indians were raping white women in retalia
tion. At the Sand Creek Massacre, the United States 
Army raped and killed an entire village of Indian wo
men in return for Apache raids on Colorado settlements. 
A witness describes one phase of the attack: I heard 
one man say he had cut out a womans private parts and 
had them stuck for exhibitoin on a stick. I also heard of 
numerous instances in which men had cut out the pri
vate parts of females and stretched them over their 
hats while riding in the ranks. Obviously, this example 
substantiates Brownmillers theory in that the white 
men were convinced they were superior to the rude 
savages. A similar incident occurred when Missourians 
raped Mormon women because their husbands claimed 
they were in direct communication with God.
Brownmillers discussion of interracial rape in the 
United States stretches over three chapters, but the 
subject will be considered at this point in its entirety, 
even though chronological order must be ignored. The 
first phase of her account concerns the black experience 
under slavery. Rape in slavery was more than a chance 
tool of violence. It was an institutional crime, part and 
parcel of the white mans subjugation of a people for 
economic and psychological gain. The black woman 
was owned in all her parts by the white plantation mas
ter, who viewed her as a breeding machine, a piece of 
property. Therefore, legally the concept of raping a 
slave simply did not exist. One cannot rape ones own 
property. This treatment of the black woman was an
obvious message to the black slave from the white mas
ter: Easy access to numerous female bodies afforded 
swaggering proof of masculinity to slaveholding males, 
while it conversely reduced and twisted the black mans 
concept of his role. The black man often relieved his re
sulting frustrations by raping black women. The white 
owners were not particularly disturbed by this practice, 
unless the woman was incapcitated for work or breeding. 
Ultimately, the appointed role of breeder woman forci
bly progressed to outright prostitution in the last de
cades of slavery.
Brownmiller then focuses on the role of the white 
woman under slavery and concludes that it was also 
undesirable. She states, The patriarchal institution of 
marriage dovetailed with the patriarchal institution of 
slavery. In the nineteenth century, a married woman was 
considered by law to be the property of her husband. 
The white woman was legal bearer of her husbands 
children, prized decorative ornament, sometime compan
ion, bestowed with the external trappings of privilege 
but denied real power, her husband's choicest piece of 
property. In addition, the white man passed admix
ture laws designed to prevent sexual contact between 
the races, although these laws were only enforced 
against black men and white women. Vindictiveness 
toward white women who took black lovers or married 
them was written into the white mans law. If a white 
woman had such a reputation, then the penalty of a 
black man who raped her was noticeably lessened.
When Lee surrendered at Appomattox Court House, 
this by no means convinced the white man that the 
black race was not inferior. The Klu Klux Klan arose 
during Reconstruction to ensure that the black man 
would not be allowed to forget his inferiority. Lynch---------------------------------------------------

tar mMiHJu Hy2Hy0i1t97t6V nol meNbTBflPEZE
ings and campaigns of terror, including rapings of black 
women, were used to intimidate the black man. As an
other indication of the white feeling of superiority, the 
KKK vowed to protect the white woman from contact 
with the black man - The purity of white womanhood 
was as critical a touchstone of white masculinity as the 
system of slaveholding itself. As had been the case 
under slavery, white women were used as a shield 
behind which their own men committed cowardly acts 
of violence against a helpless people. If a black man was 
even accused of raping a white woman, his fate was a 
foregone conclusion: He was summarily lynched.
During the 1930s the Communist party, eager to 
discredit the American system of justice, noted that if 
a black was convicted of raping a white woman, he was 
18 times as likely to be executed as a black who raped a 
black, a white who raped a white, or a white who raped 
a black woman. Having discovered a legitimate cause, 
the Left then concluded that the black men were inno
cent, which they undoubtly were in many cases, and 
placed the blame on the white victim. Brownmiller 
writes, It was historically inevitable that the American 
Communist Party of the nineteen thirties, controlled and 
directed by white men, like all other political parties, 
would slight the veracity of women and charge them 
with the sins of Potiphars wife in its effort to clear the 
reputation of blacks. The attorneys supplied for the 
black defendents by the Left engaged in slander tactics 
against white women with a virulence that bordered 
on hate. The Daily Worker printed editorials which 
concluded, It is impossible to rape a woman if she 
doesnt really want it. In this manner, the blame for 
the rapes shifted from the black man to the white wo
man, while the real culprit, in Brownniillers view, 
the white man, remained unsullied. The cases which 
served to convince most of the rest of the nation that 
the white woman had indeed lied when she had cried 
rape, because she wanted to hide her own promiscu
ousness with a black man, were the Scottsboro trials and 
the Willie McGee case, in which the results the Left 
expected did finally emerge.
However, Brownmiller does credit the Left with alert
ing the rest of the nation to the many injustices the 
black men were being subjected to and with reducing 
the number of lynchings in the South during the 1950s. 
She also comments on the effect that the Lefts crusade 
had on liberal white women at this time. Many of them 
asked themselves, Did not white women in particular 
have to bear the white mans burden of making amends 
for Southern racism? Brownmiller discerns a reluc
tance on the part of the victim to prosecute her rapist, 
or even to report the crime, stemming from her political 
belief that her rape was an extension of the social strug
gle of black against white or rich against poor.
The liberal white woman was not the only one that 
concluded that she had to bear this burden; the black 
man also did in his attempt to show the white man that 
he was no longer to be considered an inferior. In his stu
dy of rapes in Washington, D.C., Charles Hayman, while 
noting that black men rape mostly bla^k women, states, 
The increasing number and proportion of black-white 
rapes indicates an increase in aggression and violence, 
in hostility to females, and to white females. Brownmil
ler blames this increase on those like Eldridge Cleaver, 
who in Soul on Ice relates, Somehow I arrived at the 
conclusion that as a matter of principle, it was of para
mount importance for me to have an antagonistic, 
ruthless attitude toward white women. The term outlaw 
appealed to me. I became a rapist. He adds, To refine 
my technique and modus operandi, I started out by 
practicing on black girls in the ghetto. Frantz Fanon al
so assumes that it is proper for the black to rape the 
white women. In Wretched of the Earth, when discussing 
the fear of white women that they will be raped by 
blacks, Fanon asks, Basically does this fear of rape not 
itself cry out for rape? Just as there are faces that ask to 
be slapped, can one not speak of women who ask to be 
raped? Fanon has gullibly accepted tl\e male-concocted 
female ideology of rape. Calvin Hernton in Sex and 
Racism in America affirms, I think now that in every 
Negro who grows up in the South, there is a rapist, no 
matter how hidden. And that rapist has been conceived 
in the Negro by a system of morals based on guilt, 
hatred, and human denial. Any oppressed group, when 
obtaining power, tends to acquire the females of the 
group that has been the oppressor. Brownmiller retorts, 
Hemtons concept of human denial implies that free 
access to white women, or indeed, to any women,is 
s< ne sort of inalienable male right that has been inhu
manely denied to blacks. She is equally enraged by the 
reaction of white male liberals, noting that the ideas of 
Cleaver and others have been taken up with astonishing 
enthusiasm by white male radicals and parts of the white 
intellectual establishment as a perfectly acceptable ex
cuse for rape committed by black men. Brownmiller 
parts company with the Left and argues that there is no 
excuse which can justify blacks raping white women, 
just as there is and was no excuse for whites raping black 
women.
Brownmiller then has a short account of the raping 
during World War I. In the earliest months of the war as 
the Germans rolled through Belgium and Northern 
France, -ihe German General Staff deliberately mount
ed a campaign of terror, which included mass rapings of 
the civilian female population, according to Arnold 
Toynbee. When the war bogged down into trench war
fare * the incidence of rape also noticeably declined. Dur
ing the war the rapings in Belgium were used in antiGerman propaganda, especially in the United States, but 
when the war ended the rapes were soon dismissed by 
both sides as manufactured political propaganda. Brown
miller writes, The rational experts found it easy to de
bunk accounts of rape.
In 1919, a venerable Russian tradition was again re
peated: the pogrom. Major pogroms had occurred in
With this official policy
of t roa ting like objects
and the racism against
the Vietnamese, rape
was inevitable.
1648, 1881, 1891 and 1903 and each one involved mass 
rapings of Jewish women. During the Russian Civil 
War, the Whites or anti-Bolsheviks raped the Jewish wo
men in the belief that the Jews were all Trotskyites. In 
the past, the Czarist government had not been without 
complicity, for with its existence threatened by revolu
tion, Beat the Jews became a strategic divertisement 
from its own repressions. Brownmiller postulates that 
the high historical incidence of rape that Jewish women 
have been subjected to accounts for the reputation that 
Jewish women have of being promiscuous, a conclusion 
which would follow readily from the female ideology of 
rape.
Only two decades after World War I ended, the Ger
mans got an opportunity to improve upon their past re
cord. Since Nazi fascisms very nature was an exagger
ation of the values that normal society held to be mascu
line, it is understandable, although not excusable, that 
the Nazis committed so many rapes against Jews, Rus
sians and Slavs, who were supposedly racially inferior to 
the Germans. With cults of sport and physical fortitude, 
the Axis war machine merely carried the male ideology 
to a further degree, to an unacceptable exaggeration. 
The Japanese also had a master-race theory of the Land 
of the Rising Sun, and this provided them the justifica
tion for raping the Chinese. General Matsui, who author
ized the rapings in Nanking, proclaimed, I wanted to 
dazzle China with Japans military glory. From 1943 
to 1945 the Russians got a chance for revenge as they 
pushed the German Army back. The incidence of rapes 
committed by the Red Army in Berlin ranks as one of 
the highest in known history. Brownmiller observes, 
Whatever socialist ideology the Red Army men were 
exposed to in their indoctrination, sexual oppression 
of women was evidently not part of the course.
In 1960 Belgium hastily granted independence to the 
Congo. Local politicans had led the Congolese to believe that independence would deliver to them not only 
the jobs, the cars, and the government houses heretofore 
enjoyed by the Belgians, but also their private proper
ty. The Congolese believed this private property to in
clude the women and widespread rapings of European 
females occurred. As Hernton posited, Any oppressed 
group, when obtaining power, tends to acquire the fe
males of the group that has been the oppressor, or at 
least concludes that it is entitled to these women. A gra
tuitous defilement, sporadically reported in the course 
of the Congolese rebellions was the insertion of hand 
grenades into the vaginas of victims. During the social 
upheavels, thousands of black women were also raped 
in intertribal fighting. Similar incidents occurred in 
Bangladesh, when the East Pakistanis raped the Bengali 
women. In this instance, the husbands rejected their 
raped wives in droves, and many of the women ended up 
in brothels to keep from starving.
Perhaps the mosit unsettling incidents that Brownmil
ler relates are the American actions in Vietnam, since 
the assailants were Americans and the attacks occurred 
within recent memory. The Vietnamese did little raping 
among themselves, which had also been the case during 
the American Civil War. Attempting to explain the lack 
of raping by the Vietcong, Brownmiller postulates, 
Vietcong women played a m?jor role in military oper
ations and the presence of women fighting as equals 
among their men acted against the sexual humiliation 
or mistreatment of other women. The South Vietna
mese did little raping among the native population, but 
when Nixon sent them into Cambodia and Laos it was 
an entirely different case.
Brownmiller partially blames the high rate of Ameri
can raping on the presence of official United States 
military brothels. She writes, As the American presence 
in Vietnam multiplied, the unspoken military theory 
of womens bodies as not only a reward of war but as 
a necessary provision like soda pop and ice cream, to 
keep our boys healthy and happy, turned into routine 
practice. The women were garishly made up with elabor
ate, sprayed bouffant hairdos and many had enlarged 
their breasts with silicone injections as a concession to 
a Western fetish.
With this official policy of treating women like ob
jects and the racism against the Vietnamese, rape was in
evitable. All civilians were treated as enemy. It was so 
easy to rape on the squad level. The juxtaposition of fra
gile, small-boned Vietnamese women against tall, strong 
American men created an exaggerated masculine-femin
ine dynamic that lent itself readily to rape. Rape, 
which usually 'occurred in gangs, was, in the jargon of 
the American troops, SOP (Standard Operating Proce
dure). Soldiers were afraid to turn in their buddies who 
raped, afraid of not being seen as one of the boys. One 
GI argued, Next time youre out in the field you wont 
come back - youll come back in a body bag. What the 
hell, shes only a dink, a gook, this is what they think.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-January 20, 1976-Page 15
Kissinger with Jill St. John
The offlciers would not dare to order their men not to 
rape out of fear for their own lives. One soldier 
relates, Instead of telling his squad not to do it, because 
they wouldnt listen to him anyway, the sergeant went 
into another side of the village and just sat and stared 
bleakly at the ground, feeling sorry for himself. But, at 
any rate, his men raped the girl, and then" the last man 
to make love to her shot her in the head.
It is known that the entire village of My Lai was mas
sacred, but it isnt generally realized that most of the 
women in the village had been raped before they were 
shot. Charlie Company, responsible for the rapes and 
murders, was composed of volunteers, which meant 
that the men were from the lower classes and that they 
had little reluctance in embracing the exaggerated male 
ideology of the Army or the corresponding violence. 
The soldier who uncovered the My Lai massacre, did so 
from a helicopter where he saw a rape victim lying in a 
field. He reported that She was spread-eagled, as if on 
display. She had an 11th Brigade patch between her legs, 
as if it were some type of display, some badge of 
honor.
The gratuitous defilements contained in the Vietnan 
section of Brownmillers book are some of the most 
gruesome in her study. A GI reveals an incident in which 
a group of soldiers raped a Vietnamese woman and then 
They spread her eagle and shoved an E tool up her 
vagina, an entrenching tool. Then they took that out and 
they used a tree limb and then she w'as shot. In another 
incident, a wom^n was raped and subsequently a grease 
gun of the type used in automobile work was placed in 
her vagina and she was packed full of grease. A US 
soldier reports a case in which a North Vietnamese wo
man was caught and raped by his entire squad. When she 
still refused to cooperate and release information about 
North Vietnamese troops, they threatened to burn her 
pubic hairs. The soldier continues, And I guess it wasnt 
done on purpose, Im sure of that, but they lighted a 
cigarette lighter and she caught on fire. She went into 
shock.
Brownmiller then analyzes rape in contemporary 
America. She begins with a statistical overview, but, as 
she points out, the data on rape only applies to those 
assaults legally defined as rape. Rape is the fastest grow
ing of the most violent crimes. It increased 10 percent 
in 1973, 9 percent in 1974, and 71 percent over the 
past six-year period. Brownmiller believes that this 
drastic increase can be explained by two factors: more 
rapes are being committed and more women are report
ing that they are being raped. However, estimates range 
from one in 5 to one in 20 as to the number of rapes 
that are actually reported out of those committed. 
Another reason for the increase in rapes is that as wo
men become more independent, they are more suscept
ible to being raped. Of all the rapes reported, 15 percent 
are deemed unfounded by the police, which means 
that they did not believe the victim, and 15 percent of 
all rapes result in conviction. Although most rapes occur 
in lower class neighborhoods, Brownmiller notes that 
rapes are increasing in the suburbs and on the college 
campus. In Brenda Browns study of rape, students 
comprised 27 percent of all rape victims and made up
the largest group having stated occupations. Browns 
report confirms Brownmillers observation that rape 
and other crimes of violence have been reported with 
increasing frequency at formerly protected citadels 
like the college campus.
Brownmiller also presents a statistical portrait of the 
average rapist. He usually is from the lower socioeco
nomic class and between the ages of 16 and 24. He rapes 
in a gang in approximately one half of the cases. 
Brownmiller asserts that the typical rapist isnt a psycho 
but that he rapes because he is a member of the sub
culture of violence. Rape is an excepted part of the 
ethos of the street gang. According to Brownmiller, 
Allegiance or conformity to machismo, particularly in 
a group or gang, is the sine qua non of status, reputation 
and identity for lower-class male youth. Sexual aggres
sion, of course, is a major part of machismo. Brown
miller also points out that 70 percent of all arrested 
rapists have prior records, 85 percent go on to be repeat
ers in crime and the typical rapist serves on average less 
than four years in prison. These figures indicate that the 
present legal system does little to effectively deter rape. 
The rapist in prison is more than twice as likely to 
insist on his innocence than the nonsexual offender, 
blaming the rape on the victim. In other words, the 
rapist has too accepted the female ideology of rape.
Rape has been reported 
with increasing 
frequency at formerly
protected citadels like
the college campus.
From the proceeding it would appear that Brown
miller believes that only the lower classes rape in Ameri
ca. On the contrary, she states, Male bonding employed 
against women in a collectively violent way is not re
stricted to a war situation or a lower-class mob. She 
contends that the rapes committed by the upper classes 
do not appear in the statistics because they are carried 
out in ways that are not illegal -- Rapists may operate 
within an emotional setting or within a dependent 
relationship that provides a hierarchical, authoritarian 
structure of its own that weakens a victims resistance, 
distorts her perspective and confonds her will. Econom
ic coercion, such as threatened loss of a job, is also a 
factor in many legal rapes. As another example, Brown
miller conclude^, A therapist who suggests to his 
patient that the solution to her problem of frigidity lies 
in having sex with him is practicing rape upon a vulner
able victim. Dating rapes are also common and legal: 
All dating rapes that occurred in automobiles were 
held unfounded by police in a Pennsylvania study. One 
victim of a dating rape reports, On our last date he 
pushed me in the back of the car and held me. I just gave 
up. After all, wasnt I supposed to defer to him in every
thing?
Brownmiller maintains that all men create an atmos
phere which is conductive to rape. That the underlying 
power assumptions are the same for the upper classes 
as for the lower class street gangs is illustrated by the 
existence of all male corporate executive dining rooms 
and climbs up Mount Everest. The lower class youths 
are desperately trying to learn the way to be success
ful men, duplicating in the only outlet available to 
them the behavior of upper and middle class males. 
Henry Kissinger was an excellent example of this phe
nomenon. Photos of the Secretary of State, who is 
quoted as saying Power is the ultimate aphrodisiac, in
toxicating Jill St.*John and Mario Thomas with his wit
and aplomb must appear as behavior to be emulated by 
lower class youths as best they can. Therefore, Brown
miller maintains that although the upper classes do not 
legally rape, the fact that some men rape provides a 
sufficient threat to keep all women in a constant state 
of intimidation.
Police hostility to rape victims is legendary: The 
local police precinct has always been a bastion of male 
attitudes and responses that are inimical to women. 
As was mentioned, 15 percent of all rapes were desig
nated unfounded by the plice. In addition, most com
plainants were not informed that the offenses against 
them had been unfounded. Brownmiller believes this 
high rate of unfounded cases results from the fact that 
the male police mentality is often identical to the 
stereotypic view of rape that are shared by the rest of 
the male culture. The tragedy for the rape victim is that 
the police officier is the person who validates her vic
timization. A police officier who does not believe there 
is such a crime as rape can arrive at only one determin
ation. If the woman had previously known her assail
ant, the police conclude that she is a woman who 
changed her mind afterward. The California police 
manual, Patrol Procedure, advises, Forcible rape 
is one of the most falsely reported crimes. The majority 
of second day reported rapes are not legitimate. If the 
rape victim is black, the chances that her complaint will 
be 'unfounded are much higher. This results from the 
lack of confidence in the veracity of the black com
plaints and a belief in the myth of black promiscuity 
by policemen.
The porousness of the legal system when it comes to 
the rapist has already been mentioned. The two most 
notorious rape-murders in recent history were Winston 
Moseley, who stabbed and raped Kitty Genovese while 
38 people looked on, and Albert DeSalvo who had 
raped 2,000 women before he turned himself in for the 
Boston rape-murders. As another example of the legal 
protection afforded the rape victim, Brownmiller men
tions an incident in which a woman successfully fought 
off her attacker and put him in the hospital. The police 
then arrested the woman for assault. The victim relates, 
So we didnt have a rape case but we almost had man
slaughter. Thats what the police told me, if the guy 
died, Id be up for manslaughter.
If the police deem the womans complaint founded, 
her difficulties have not ended. She now has to face a 
jury, defense attorneys always advise their clients to face 
a jury rather than a judge when charged with rape, which 
most probably accepts the female ideology of rape. The 
Hale instructions to a jury facing a rape trial state, 
Rape is an accusation easily to be made and hard to be 
proved and harder to be defended by the party accused, 
tho never so innocent. These instructions, which date 
from the 1600s, were included as late as 1973 in Cali
fornias standard set of jury instructions for cases of 
rape. Brownmiller writes, Rape is the only crime of 
violence in which a victim is expected or required to 
resist. The victim must meet special rules of evidence 
to prove to the jury that she did not want to be raped 
and did nothing to foster the crime. Juries often hear 
evidence on a womans sexual history, the assumption 
being that if she is morally unfit she is likely to have en
couraged the incident she is refering to as a rape. If the 
woman had been drinking with or had been picked up 
by her attacker or is considered to be promiscuous, her 
assailant will usually be acquitted. On the contrary, 
while a womans past sexual history may be trotted out 
for a jurys appraisal, a mans relevant sexual history, 
including prior charges and convictions for rape, may 
not be introduced in evidence if he does not take the 
witness Stand. to be continued next issue.
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
________________
The TARTAN 
congratulates 
The Steelers 
on 
Superbowl X
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
'
_________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-January 20, 1976
Rape on Campus
it
by Kris Mamula
Few crimes against the individual produce the emotion
al trauma of rape; few crimes perhaps are so misunder
stood. While the causality of rape is widely disputed, 
the crime is not particular to any one area or group of 
people. The crime derives its uniqueness from the impact 
it has and the special treatment required by the rape 
victim. Some of the organizations involved with the 
treatment of the rape victim include the Rape Crisis 
Center in McKeesport and the Pittsburgh Action Against 
Rape.
The Rape Crisis Center offers immediate treatment for 
the rape victim including medical attention and legal 
advice. They council and support the victim from the 
time of the rape to the trial of the rapist. Although the 
Center deals with victims of child molestation and sodo
my, the crime most frequently dealt with is forcible rape.
Between 18 and 23 new cases of rape are reported to the 
Center each month according to Yvonne White, Center 
Advocate. The majority of the Centers clients report the 
incident tQ the police and 23 convictions have resulted 
in 1974-75 through the Centers work with the clients. 
Also in 1974-75 the Center provided direct instruction 
and counciling in assault-prevention for 200 students. 
The Center offers a 24-hour hotline through which a 
rape victim may receive immediate attention by a Center 
Advocate.
The Pittsburgh Action Against Rape organization 
serves therapy victims primarily as a referral service. 
A rape victim that calls Pittsburgh Action is offered 
both medical and legal advice and information about 
facilities that are availabe. Pittsburgh Action is active in 
increasing pblic awareness of rape by offering lectures to 
various groups.
The frequency of rape is subject to dispute since some
estimates put the number of unreported rapes 50% high
er than those reported. Occasionally even the numbers of 
unreported rapes are subject to contradiction. Concerning 
the Pitt University Campus however, Lieutenant Sam 
Conte of the Pitt Police said that there were 3 reported 
rapes on the Pitt Campus in 1975--an increase from 0 
reported in 1974. Since it is the security police of the 
University that most often conduct the initial interro
gation, it is important to consider the competency of the ^ 
police officer in dealing with the student rape victim. The 
Pitt Police provide a certified training course for instruc
tion in the handling of lethal weapons and provide their 
officers with a secondary training program comprised of 
4 day workshops, 4 hours each day. In these workshops, 
lectures are given by members of the Rape Crisis Center 
which are intended to increase the officers sensitivity in 
the handling of rape cases. The Pitt Police over the past 
year have given talks to the female faculty and student
n.BEETHOVEN:
NINE SYMPHONIES  Complete
William Steinberg 
conducts Pittsburgh 
Symphony $14.98 
Seven record set
BKLTIHHEL\THE Ka -E Sv'. ' '
VIRGIL FOX:
IN CONCERT
The organist of the 
70s performs Bach
$6.98
Three record set
5* uuaaunti. '
M tULliUlXV
&
BLUES - FOLK
Brownie McGhee 
Lightnin Hopkins 
Doc Watson 
Buffy Sainte Marie 
Otis Spann 
Jimmy Rushing 
Joan Baez 
John Lee Hooker
ROCK
Grateful Dead
Curtis Mayfield
Bette Midler
Eric Clapton
J. Geils Band
Sha Na Na
Three Dog Night
Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young
JAZZ
Yusef Lateef 
Jimmy Witherspoon 
Dave Brubeck 
Ramsey Lewis 
Miles Davis 
Duke Ellington 
John Coltrane 
Cannonball Adderley
' ivmwmT7Til
BEST OF STRAUSS
 Beloved Waltzes,
Polkas and 
Overtures 
Eduard Strauss and
his orchestra 0 gg
Three record set
 THE BEST OF
| y." 9
LABELS
Sine Qua Non 
Westminster Gold 
RCA
Vanguard
Columbia
Elektra
Philips
Turnabout
Atlantic
and many others
HANDEL:
MESSIAH - Complete
Sir Adrian Boult and 
the London 
Philharmonic 
Choir and
Orchestra $6.98
Three record set
JULIAN BREAM:
THE CLASSICAL GUITAR
Works of Bach,
De Falla, Villa 
Lobos, Sor, Turina,
Torroba  Julian 
Bream, guitar  gg
Three record set
Eduard Straus* and His Symphonic Orchestra
at the 
CMU bookstore
Sale Starts Jan. 21
CLASSICAL
Maurice Abravanel, Utah 
Symphony 
William Steinberg, Pittsburgh 
Symphony 
Maurice Andre 
Alfred Brendel 
Andres Segovia 
London Symphony Orchestra 
Sylvia Marlowe
BRAHMS:
COMPLETE SYMPHONIES
Featuring Sir Adrian 
Boult, the London 
Philharmonic;
Leopold Stokowski,
Houston Symphony,
William Steinberg,
Pittsburgh
Symphony $8.98
Four record set
THE BAROQUE TRUMPET 
AND HORN AT 
THEIR FINEST
Maurice Andre,
Adolf Scherbaum 98
Five record set
Avant-Garde Avenue
Tired of the same views
Where nothings ever new
Come on down to Avant-Garde Avenue
Theres always something to do
The poems dont rhyme 
We dont keep track of time 
There aint never any crime 
Because everyone is so kind
You can paint while you sleep 
And laugh while you weep 
We never talk in the past tense 
And nothing has to make sense
No one needs to own a car 
Nirvana isnt that far 
Were living on the highest plane 
Where nothings ever the same
PK

---------------------------------------------------

Mike Corletti
body of Pitt in order to increase awareness of the crime. 
Lietuenant Conte noted that over the past five years, 
every reported incident of rape on the Pitt Campus has
resulted in the apprehension of the rapist.
Mike Corletti, Director of Camegie-Mellons Security 
Force said that in the eleven months he has been at CMU, 
there has only been one incident of personal assaultwhich must be differentiated from forcible rape, on 
Carnegie-Mellons Campus. Mr. Corletti acknowledged the 
need for security officers to undergo special training in 
order to more sensitively deal with rape victims although 
he had no definite plans for exposing CMU Police to this 
training. Part of the problem, Mr. Corletti explained, is 
the small size of the security force at CMU; even a few 
officers attending a lecture on dealing with rape victims 
would be a considerable reduction in the force. Present
ly, CMU Security Police, in accordance with Pennsylvania 
Law, are undergoing training in the use of lethal weapons. 
Although the Pitt Police have been certified as a training 
academy for the use of lethal weapons, Mr. Corletti opted 
to send CMU security officers to the County Police Aca
demy.
Mr. Corlettis statistics of student rape victims at CMU 
contradict the statistics provided by Sergeant J. Flannigan, head of the Youth and Sex Assault Squad of the 
Pittsburgh Police. Mr. Corletti risks jeopardizing his cre
dibility in reporting incidence of all campus crime (See 
TARTAN January 13th) through his apparent attempt to 
conceal the incidence of rape. Flannigans statements 
also cast doubt on Contes statistics of rape at Pitt. The 
Youth and Sex Assault Squad is comprised solely of 26 
men--an aspect of the squad Sergeant Flannigan expects
TRAPEZE
THE TARTAN1t97t6V nol meNbitar mN
to change as more qualified women join the force, and 
are involved primarily with the investigation of rape and 
assault cases. Sgt. Flannigan said that he demands an 
attitude of respect and careful handling from the men 
in his squad in dealing with the rape and assault victims. 
Instead of one case of personal assault, technically not a 
rape, as Mr. Corletti noted, Sgt. Flannigan reported n 
rapes which occurred on or near the Carnegie-Mellon 
campus during the past six months. Both victims were 
CMU students. One of the rapes which occurred on the 
first floor of Baker Hall near the Security Office still 
remains unsolved. Sgt Flannigan also noted that within 
the last two months a man posing as a film producer so
licited students on CMUs campus to act in a film with 
him, and were promised $35.00 an hour for their servi
ces. Although it is questionable whether the man could 
have been held on a rape charge, he was subsequently 
arrested by CMU Police on a charge of trespassing. While 
the Youth and Sex Assault Squad attempted to contact 
students who cooperated with the man under the impres
sion that he was a film producer, the man left town. In
vestigation of the incident was hampered by the reluc
tance of the involved students to file a criminal complaint. 
Concerning the prevention of rape, Sgt. Flannigan noted 
that although he is not against the instruction of selfdefense, he questioned the effectiveness of it in a rape or 
assault situation.
Some of the measures enacted to reduce the inci
dence of crime on both the Carnegie-Mellon and Pitt
pmm's 1st ANNIVERSARY BENEFIT 
CONCERT
THE
RHYTHM KINGS
AND
KING SOLOMON
WITH SPECIAL GUEST
FLOYD BECK
JAN 26  8 p.m. 
JEWISH COMMUNITY 
CENTER
Directly across from the Cathedral of Learning
BELLEFIELD ST. (BETWEEN 5th & FORBES ST.) 
OAKLAND
Tickets: $3.50 at National Record Marts 
$4.00 at the door
members discount tickets: contact pmm 
proceeds benefit Pittsburgh music makers, inc.
American Way of 
Death
A 6 PART SERIES beginning with
I6k It9Wrs LUq7W6r 
t7h8C6 CG
Death by Chance, 
Death by Choice 
An American 
Perspective on 
Death
Tuesday Jan. 27 
7:30 p.m. 
Skibo Wherrett Room
Sponsored by:Free ana open
Campus Program Planning
B'nai B nth Hillel to the public
University and City Ministries
Submerge yourself in the ferment 
Everythings of supreme consequence 
Every night you take a free journey 
Theres always someone new to be
If you want to know 
Come on down to the show 
You dont have to believe what you say 
As long as you can talk all day
Walk on down to Avant-Garde Avenue 
What have you got to lose 
Bring a friend or two with you 
Down to Avant-Garde Avenue
Down on Avant-Garde Avenue 
You dont have to polish your shoes 
Soon youll know just what to do 
Right on cue
Down on Avant-Garde Avenue

---------------------------------------------------

tar mO,HJu Hy2Hy0,1t97t6V nolmeNb^(ltdfd
IF YOU ARE A VICTIM OF RAPE OR SEXUAL ASSAULT:
Call the Rape Crisis Center anytime, night or day. An advocate 
will talk to you.
Do not bathe, wash, douch or change your clothes.
An Advocate will accompany you to a medical facility or help you 
obtain treatment.
An Advocate will give you information concerning prosecution. 
If you decide to prosecute, evidence gathering will be done 
during the medical examination.
Try to remember the physical appearance of the rapist. Even if 
you decide not to prosecute, you may wish to provide the 
police with an accurate description, which may lead to his 
arrest.
Make sure you are provided with information about pregnancy 
and venereal disease during medical care. Be sure to obtain a 
follow-up appointment. This is necessary for pregnancy 
and venereal disease treatment and prevention.
Talk to an Advocate at the Rape Crisis Center about your personal 
rights, health-care rights, and your legal rights.
The Rape Crisis Centers phone number is 461-3610
campuses include the installation of emergency phones, 
plans for increasing the number of emergency phones on 
each campus, better lighting and specifically on CMUs 
campus, the updating of radio communication equip
ment. Since the effectiveness of these measures in 
deterring the incidence of rape is difficult to determine, 
much of the responsibility of rape prevention rests with 
the individual. Individual awareness about rape is 
essential, but more importantly, without the cooper
ation and testimony of the rape victim there is no 
evidence that a crime has been committed.
One of the fundamental stumbling blocks in the 
prosecution of the rapist seems to be the reluctance 
of the victim to either report the incident or to follow 
up the campus police report of the assault with legal 
action. Relatives or friends of a rape victim may dis
courage the victim from thinking or talking about 
the incident in the hopes of saving the victim further 
distress. In an article prepared for mental health work
ers entitled, Crisis Intervention With Victims of Rape, 
the initial mental phase is described as The Acute Reac
tion. In this phase that ususally lasts several days,
 . . . the victims feelings include shock, disbelief or 
dismay, followed by anxiety and fear. Both Yvonne 
White from the Rape Crisis Center and Pam Haluschak 
from the Pittsburgh Action Against Rape organization 
described a frequent reaction of the victim to the 
assaultguilt. These feelings of guilt are often rein
forced by the victims relatives or friends who may feel 
ings.that the victim was careless or did not heed their 
warnings. The victim may feel dirty or despoiled and 
her anger toward the assailant may be distorted into 
anger toward herself; ultimately these distorted feelings 
may become a part of her self-image. It would seem that 
few crimes committed against the individual would 
produce a turning inward of anger and feelings of guilt.
Training Sergeant Dick Walters from the Pitt Police 
categorized the emotional impact of rape on the victim 
with that of felonious assault and homicide. In this 
regard sociologist Robert Bellah in a recent issue of 
Psychology Today describes a contemporary attitude of 
narcissism that pervades American society. This preoc
cupation with the self is evident in the manner men 
relate to women, and originates from  , . . the idea that 
we only have to follow inwardness to the notion that the 
only rule for action is: If it feels good, do it . . . [and 
then this attitude] leads to ripping other people off 
materially and psychologically. Rape is certainly not a 
new crime nor unique to a particular people or country. 
In a consumer society however, where the primary 
purpose of commodities seems to be their consumption; 
rape has become somewhat of a symbolic act.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
needs short stories and 
feature articles.
Any interested, drop 
off a note in the 
TARTAN office.
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
*
c/4n Evening of Americana
American Piano Music performed by"
Jeanne Behrend
program will include works by"
Qi'arles E.^ves and Scott Joplin
JANUARY 22 S^PM
CFA (ALUMNI (HALL CFREE
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning 
cAnd CMU ^Music Dept.

---------------------------------------------------

HJu Hy2Hy0iJanuary 20, 1976Page 19
TARTANS WIN IN DOUBLE OVERTIME
Derringer may be out for season
by Gerry Fraley
The first time never comes off perfectly. 
Like the girl with braces who sliced your 
lip the first time you kissed her; the direc
tion was correct and it was the start of big
ger things but there was still some work to 
do.
This was the case with the CarnegifeMellon basketball team Wednesday night 
when they defeated the Bethany Bisons 
88-83 in double overtime. It was the first 
win of the year for the Tartans, their re
cord improving to 1-6 overall and 1-2 in 
the Presidents Athletic Conference. It was 
also the first collegiate win for first year 
Head Coach Dave Maloney.
The Tartans played with the intensity 
of a winner, something unseen at the 
Skibo gym for some time. They displayed 
aggressive rebounding and some excellent 
shooting. They also displayed a tendency 
to commit costly turnovers at some very 
inopportune moments, something that will 
have to be eliminated if they are to be the 
first Tech basketball team with a winning 
record since the 1966-67 season.
The turnovers, however, cannot take 
away from the fact that this is a greatly 
improved basketball team. Even the topranked Indiana Hoosiers have looked like 
Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College in 
their floor play at time this season.
In Wednesdays game with Bethany, 
Tech played the Bisons even until late in 
the first half. Then, with 7 :41 remaining in 
the half and the Tartans leading 23-22, 
Tech ran off eight unanswered points and 
moved out to a 34-22 lead with 5:00 left 
in the half. Turnovers took away what
chance the Tartans had to increase their 
lead and their ten point lead shrunk to 
one, 36-35, as the first half ended.
Sophomore guard Dane Wukich pumped 
in 10 of the Tartans first half points. He 
was followed by junior guard Larry 
DiCicco with nine. DiCicco exploded in 
the second half as he poured in 25 points 
to end the might with a game high total 
of 34 in a performance that could only be 
classified as a human highlight film.
The second half was a seesaw affair as 
the lead changed hands eleven times. The 
Tartans did manage to go ahead 66-61 
with less than four minutes to play but 
some shoddy floor play cost them the lead. 
Bethanys Tag Wilson hit two free throws 
with 0:12 remaining to tie the game 67-67. 
The Tartans looked like a Chinese fire drill
Dennis Derringer, a 6'6" forward for CMU, may 
be out for the season with injuries.
as they attempted to get off one last shot. 
The best they could come up with was a 
75 foot prayer by Ralph DeaBrunzzo 
that never had a chance. Besides throwing 
away the lead in the last minute, Techs 
two big men, 6-6 junior forward Marty 
CostS and 6-9 junior center Paul Hamerly 
both picked up their fifth personal fouls in 
the closing seconds.
DiCicco, an all-city performer at Pitts
burghs Allegheny High School and a 
member of the Region 20 all-star team last 
season while playing for Allegheny Com
munity College, took charge in the over
times. DiCicca scored six of the Tartans 
10 points in the first overtime. He hit 
a field goal with 0:31 remaining to tie the 
game at 75-75. Bethanys Sam DeBone 
came back four seconds later to hit two 
free throws to give the Bisons a 77-75 lead 
before DiCicco again tied the game* with 
two free throws with 0:07 left to send the 
game into a second overtime period.
The second overtime was all Tartans 
or rather all DiCicco. Tech outscored 
Bethany 11-6 in the period and DiCicco hit 
for 10 of them. His last four were the game 
winners as he twice hit both ends of oneand-one free throw situations. Bethany had 
scrambled back to within three points with 
0:52 remaining before DiCicco put the 
game away.
The win left Maloney pleased but also in 
a bit of trouble as he found out that both 
Hamerly and Dennis Derringer, the teams 
remaining big man at 6-6, received injuries 
in the affair. Hamerly was listed as doubt
ful for Saturdays game against Steuben
ville. Derringers injury, however, could 
be more serious and he may be lost for the 
season. His right leg has been broken three
Larry DiCicco's 34 points were instrumental in 
CMU's victory against Bethany in double overtime
times in the past and he is currently suffer
ing from a left ankle injury suffered early 
this season. Maloney credited Derringer 
with playing a major role in the win. 
We couldnt have won without Denny. 
He got us the ball several times when we 
really needed it. Should Derringer be lost 
for the remainder of the season, the Tar
tans will be faced with a severe depth prob
lem as they will have no one on their 
bench over 62
Saturday night the Tartans played with
out their two tallest i. n, Hamferly and 
.Derringer. Not surprisingly, CMU lost to 
Steubenville 91-66. CMUs overall record 
this season is now 1-7.
The Tartans a(e home for two PAC 
games this week. On Wednesday night they 
take on Thiel and play Hiram Saturday 
afternoon at 2.
PENN STATE SKATES BY TARTANS 8-4
by Mary Kay Groupe
The Tartan leers made a long, cold, 
snowy, disheartening trek to the home of 
the Nittany Lions last Sunday, only to 
drop an 8-4 loss to Penn State (Main Cam
pus). Last season, the Tartans accounted 
for two of Penn States total of three 
losses.
But on January 11, that spark wasnt 
present in the Tartans game. The PSU fans 
crowded the sparse bleachers and the Lion 
(who bears a remarkable resemblance to 
Pitts Panther, except that he doesnt have 
the puck attached to his stick) did pushups 
at every Penn State goal.
The Tartans, however,- seemed to be 
numb - whether with the cold or a lack of 
self-confidence. Yet the game was a close 
one up until the final minutes.
Penn State opened the scoring at 4:03 
as Pittsburgher Tom Horgas shot the puck 
through the legs of goalie Frank Sciulli. A 
couple of penalties and five minutes later, a 
Steve Fuchs shot rebounded to Dave Cor
nelius who tied it up at one a piece. More 
penalties intervened, and again it was four 
men on four when Mark Jonnatti tipped in 
a slap shot from Bill Miller to give CMU 
their first and only lead. PSU tied it up two 
minutes later on a Nittany Lion power 
play.
For the final five minutes of that per
iod, Don Jacobson took over the CMU net 
while Frank Sciulli fixed a broken strap on 
his pads. The score at the end of the first 
period was still even; shots on goal were 
close at CMU - 15, PSU - 17.
The second period opened with Frank 
back in the Tartan net and Jack Arturo still
in the penalty box. Sixteen seconds into 
the period, Penn State snatched the
lead and held onto it for the rest of the
game. They would score twice more in the 
second period, and CMU once, but that 
20-minute stretch was chiefly marked by 
penalty whistles. The Lions put in their 
third power play goal (out of 4 so far) at 
4:47. Five minutes later, CMU had a 
four on three man advantage. Mark Jonnatti 
sent a nice pass to Larry Stuever, who 
flicked it to Mike Gallaway: a well set up 
play and a Gallaway goal which narrowed
the score margin to 4:3. But, before the
period ended, a Dennis Herr hat trick put 
PSU two points ahead.
A word about those penalties - 10 in the 
second period, 23 in all - they were good
.alls. The referees were really fine; they 
called a tight game and did not show favor 
to either side. In all, CMU drew 11 penal
ties to Penn States 12. Despite the number 
of calls - or maybe because of them - it was 
a relatively clean game and more fun to 
watch than some of the bruising contests 
allowed by more lax referres.
When the Tartans came out in the 
third, they needed 2 goals to tie it up. 
They got the first at 4:19 - on a power play 
by Bill Miller. But PSU recap
tured their 2-goal lead within 30 seconds, 
and that seemed to finish it for CMUV Un
able to capitalize on their power plays, the 
Tartans let Penn State have a shorthanded 
7th goal from a faceoff in the Tartan 
zone. All 3 lines went out for short, very
sluggish shifts; they showed no conviction 
that they might get 3 goals int he remain
ing 6& minutes. Penn State encountered 
little opposition on their final goal at 
16:21.
The Carnegie-Mellon hockey clubs re
cord has> slipped to 3-3 now, a galling and 
unaccustomed plight for them. This can be 
partially attributed to the*fact that the 
club is playing a more challenging schedule 
this year; in some cases (as at Denison) 
they were meeting teams whose skill and 
style of hockey were unknown quantities. 
Penn State, on the other hand, they knew 
would be a tough team to beat, requiring 
the best Tartan efforts. That best was not 
visible in the game; neither was the old 
conviction that they were winners, and 
both of these factors were self-defeating. 
Except for a few brief efforts - Callaways 
goal and a singlehanded save by Dave 
Cornelius in the second period - the 
Tartans never looked good after the first 
tied up period.
PSU played well, but not spectacularly, 
and the Tartans could have taken it. Per
haps the first prerequisites of victory are 
the confidence and the will to win, and 
both were lacking. Nonetheless, while they 
test out these harder teams, the club 
deserves the same support they had for the 
easy 10-2 wins of the last few years. Come 
out for their next home game, against 
Gannon College, at Sewickly on Sunday 
the 25th.
Photo by Mary Kay Groupe 
Penn State's goal slips by CMU's goalie, rrank Sciulli in first quarter.
If there is enough student response for 
a bus to Sewickley, arrangements will be 
made for one. Check the hockey posters 
for details. Sign up is at the Skibo Infor
mation desk.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-THE TARTAN-January 20, 1976
EARN
up to
80.00 per Month
as a plasma donor at
Sera-Tec Biologicals
only 4 hours per week and 
you can study while you're donating
for information call us at
682-3190
or stop in. We are located at
3407 FORBES Ave.
(next to Arby's in Oakland) 
Ccr9 LC9k H867k H876Sk OSM. tkRk hC Noo ckRk
v6Wk OM. tkRk hC Moo ckRk
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
SWIM TEAM DUNKED
by Ned Uber
The CMU swimmers met their match on 
Saturday when they lost to Hiram 59-54. 
Joe Dickey and Harry Coleman provided 
their usual superb performances, account
ing for 22 points. However, the day be
longed to Jeff Bland. While achieving his 
best times, he won the medley relay and 
the 50 yard freestyle by inches. The re-B-BALL 66 TEAMS
by Jim Balik
There will be 66 teams competing 
in this yedrs IM Hoop league. In the major 
league, 12 teams will play an 11 game 
schedule with the top four teams going in
to the finals. The intermediate league will 
have 30 teams in four leagues. Each team 
will play six or seven games depending on 
the league. The two top teams from each 
league will compete in the finals. Minor 
league shows 24 teams in four leagues, 
each team will play a five game schedule.
Never before in the history of CMU 
IM sports has the IM basketball program 
been as large as this year, stated Mr. 
Birdy, IM Director. There will be over 
700 players competing on the 66 teams. 
It should prove to be one of the many high 
points on this years IM sports schedule.
Games will start Monday, January 19, 
and will be played at 7:00, 8:00 and 9:00 
pm. Teams should pick up schedules in the 
IM office. Any questions should be direct
ed to IM basketball commissioner Bob 
Schulman (Beta Theta Pi) 681-9836.
This tops itali.
From one beer lover to another.
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN 4822
mainder of CMUs points were earned by 
Bob Gierard, John Rossi, Wilson Boyce, 
Jeff Pittman, Tony Carrington, Brian Kay, 
and Dave Mapes.
Three times CMU swept Hiram, and 
three times, CMU was swept by Hiram. 
Halfway through the meet Hiram was shell
shocked by a 13 point CMU lead. 'With 
four events left, CMU lead by 14. Hiram 
saved their best swimmers until the end 
and was just able to salvage victory.
Hiram finished third in the conference 
last year and is predicted to finish second
this year. If this meet is any indication of 
the future, CMU could finish third this sea
son.
On Saturday, January 24th, CMU will 
swim at Washington and Jefferson. Their 
next home meet is January 31st against 
John Carroll at 2:00.
JOT THIS DOWN
WRESTLING AND WATER BASKET
BALL  Entries are due for these sports by 
Tuesday, January 27th in the IM office.
TABLE TENNIS (singles, doubles), TEAM 
RIFLE, TEAM CALL-POOL - Entries are 
due by February 3rd in the IM office.
HANDBALL - Deadline January 20th for 
entries.
FACULTY HANDBALL - Any faculty 
member interested in playing for the 
Faculty Bulldog Handball Team call 
E.J. Birdy, ext. 8761, IM office.
BRIDGE  Tim Larkin from Theta Xi is 
this years commissioner. Teams can 
pick up schedules next week in IM of
fice.
IM BOARD - Next meeting will be Tues
day, January 27th at 4:30 pm in the IM 
office, 104 gym.
Alone & Pregnant? 
CALL BIRTHRIGHT 
bnm,meOO
CONFIDENTIAL HELP FOUR BLOCKS 
FROM CAMPUS
r** There fS a * difference!!!
j PREPARE FOR
Over 35 years 
of experience and success
Small classes
MCAT : OAT: LSAT : GRE: ATGSB : OCAT : CPAT : FLEX :ECFMG : NAT! MED BOS:
Voluminous borne  
study materials 
:
Courses that are constantly updated 
Make-ups for 
missed lessons *
Local Classes
681-9735
TEST ******* TONiKoAiisrssmcttss 
1*23 MtfCDOtK. AOAl> 
Ho usiun
|iwll i<tMW U S Cu.
