CARNEGfE INSTITUTE
Volume 52Number 22OF TECHNOLOGY
Wednesday, April 15, 1959
Famous Alums Coming 
To S n S Premiere
J. J. Johnson and Stan Kenton were officially announced: 
today as the band leaders for the Spring Carnival dances by 
the Carnival Committee of Student Congress.
^ Both the informal jazz concert and the formal Carnival 
Ball will be held in Techs gym.*^^ ^
^first place trombonist in Downbeat Magazines International Jazz
Last year he was well received 
Johnson has also played many I
outstanding hotel and college en> villk % v
gagements. Sfan Kenton
# Number One Orchestra Playing at Spring Carnival Dance
Stan Kenton, for five consecutive years the winner of DownWMmr 
beat Magazines popularity poll as Zg Tm&rWm
the leader of the nations number . WM m
one orchestra, will appear with his f
new twenty-piece orchestra at ^k
Carnival Ball, Saturday evening -
One of Capitals top recording 
artists since the company began, MM*
Kenton has been hailed as Wmmf
(%Modern Americas Man of f|^^
Music. His creative, progressive '
big-band jazz orchestrations and Wm^L^SL
compositions have received conJj
tinued fame and popularity for ^ 
many years. 3F/
Jeremiah Sullivan has been an
nounced as the new editor of the 
Tartan. He will officially assume 
the duties of the editor, along with 
the 1959-60 staff, with the pub
lication of next weeks Tartan.
A member of the Tartan staff 
for two years, Jerry has served 
as the copy editor. He is also ac
tive in Student Congress, SAE 
fraternity, the Undergraduate Ad
visory Committee, and several 
honorary societies.
Jan Notopoulos, who has serv
ed as the Tar.
tan news editor jg||||^teg^
since the retireBalsam are the Ik
1959-60 busiJjj||ly
ness manager
and assistant 0> Sullivanbusiness m a nager, respectively. The new ad
vertising manager is Miles Hol
lander.
The 1959-60 staff also includes: 
associate editor Frank Baloh; copy 
editor, Jack Cashman, sports edi
tor, Chuck Vodvarka, features 
editor Rena Siegel, photography 
editor Fred Beste, and circulation 
manager John Mowery.
Queen
Presentations
The sorority skit presenta
tions of Spring Carnival 
queen, candidates will b; held 
next Tuesday, April 21, from 
11:30 a.m. to 1:30 p.m. on Fine 
Arts Lawn.StealsJay Jay Johnson
Carnival Jazz Artist
Explorers Club Takes 
Allegheny Canoe Trip
Juniors
Any sophomore man in the 
top one third of his class who 
is interested in applying ior 
membership in Delta Skull, 
the Junior Mens Honorary 
should leave a list of his ac
tivities in the A.T.O. mailbox 
in the dean of mens office 
(A.H. 150) by 5:00 p.m. to
night (Wednesday, April 15).

---------------------------------------------------

ON CAMPUSAPRIL 24
See your Placement Officer NOW for appointment!
encfi/r yacfio
DIVISION OF BENDIX AVIATION CORPORATION  Baltimore 4, Maryland
Oux Labtmtmy... ik& Unumia
S--40
"We Would ft ww. rZ gT& thy start ohTMATchapters
A* ftCARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 15, 195
CoJ Of JL WcA
Pat Reuter
Sophomore Home Ec Major
Each Coed of the Week will receive a free carton of 
Marlboro cigarettes under a new cooperative arrange
ment between the TARTAN and the campus representa
tive for the Philip Morris Company, Harry Desilates.
Entries for the Coed of the Week Contest should 
be sent to the TARTAN via intraschool mail.
CJLegiate
C^u(turai 
(Aalendear
By Barb Jones
The nineteenth pair of Pitts
burgh Symphony concerts, on 
April 17 and 19, will be the 
fourth concert of the Beethoven 
series. Anton Kuerti, a pianist 
who was the 1957 Leventritt 
Award winner will be the guest 
artist. The program includes: 
Symphony Ito. 1 in C Major, 
Piano Concerto No. 2 in B-Flat 
Major, and Symphony No. 8 in 
F-Major.
Wednesday, April 22, a musical 
revue will take place at the MosT}ue. People such as Clyde McPhauer, LaVern Baker, Lloyd 
Price, Frankie Lymon, The Coast
ers and many others will make 
up the program. Performances are 
at 7:30 and 10:30 p.m. Tickets 
are going fast so get them now. 
The prices range from $1.75 to 
$3.75 and can be obtained at the 
box office, R. E. Baltz Agency, 
Hornes and Gimbels.
Garner
Erroll Gardner will be making 
a concert appearance at the Mos
que, Thursday, April 30, at 8:30
Ice age
p.m. The entire program will be 
extemporized in the usual Gard
ner fashion. Tickets range in price
from $2.00 to $4.00 and are avail
able at the R. E. Baltz Agency, 
Hornes and Gimbels.
Lucky us... today is the modern ice 
age. Lots and lots of it in refrigerators 
ready to ice up the Coke. And what 
could be more delicious than frosty 
Coca-Cola ... the real refreshment. 
With its cold crisp taste and 
lively lift its always Coke for The 
Pause That Refreshes! -
BE REALLY REFRESHED... HAVE A COKEt
Settled under authority of The Coca-Cola Company by
QUAKES STATE COCA-COLA BOTTUNQ CO. 
7*1 Center Ave. HI 1-7011
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LITTLE MAN ONXAMPUS
ELECTRONIC ENGINEERS 
PHYSICISTS
"COt" M * HnU TUK-XMK. COFTMHT O MM Ml WCMOU COWAM*.
At Bendix Radio you will be 
AHEAD when TOMORROW comes!
Ba Bendix Radio the accomplishments of today are stepping stones 
to continued leadership tomorrow! There is no resting on our laurels 
either individual or collective, no coasting on a reputation already won. ' 
Our immediate accomplishments are important for today . .. and for the 
future.
That is why work moves ahead rapidly at Bendix Radio and why each 
day brings new, stimulating challenges.i'~ ,  pur.
That is why the rewards of success are great . . , and why the scope of 
your future at Bendix Radio is unlimited.
It is important to youthe young engineerto start your career off on 
the right track.
You will be on the right track at Bendix Radio.
You will be working with leading scientists and engineers who are 
pioneers in new fields. You will be working in a modern plant with most 
modern equipment. Your work will be of a project nature, and you will 
see projects through from design concept to manufacturing. You will 
receive ample on-the-job training. You will be working in a professional 
atmosphere of exceptional accomplishment TTZ where th importance 
of your career is fully recognized ... where the attitude, the way of work 
and the way of life will encourage your best efforts!
f Vfo Invite you to consider your future with Bendix Radio . . . and be 
ahead when tomorrow comes. '

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 15, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPage S
^-Carnival Committee 
Announces Midway 
To Be On Cut
At the April 8 meeting of Stu
dent Congress the Spring Carnival 
Committee announced that they 
are 99 per cent sure of having the 
Webb Hall end of the Cut for the 
Carnival midway.
0 Co-chairman Carol Sooby also 
'reported that the committee is in 
need of the assistance of some of 
the Congress freshmen appren
tices for cleaning up the midway 
on May 3 and for distributing 
posters to publicize Carnival.
Becky Conrad, chairman of the 
Activities Committee, announced 
that 25 activity keys and 10 activ
ity awards will be presented at 
Call Day. She requested that all 
^applicants for activity keys and 
^awards be present at the Call Day 
ceremony on May 1.
Elections 
Concerning the May 5 elections 
of Student Congress representa
tives from departments, Joe Matis 
reported that the lists to be signed 
by anyone interested in running 
in their departments election are 
in Dr. Stricks office. The present 
senior departmental representa
tives will be asked to handle the
* elections in their own depart
ments. Notices have been sent to 
all organizations which have rep
resentation in Congress to elect 
their new delegate. Commuter 
petitions for a place on Congress 
are also in Dr. Stricks office.
Ralph Hise announced that due 
to the Easter vacation, his Consti
tution Committee has been unable 
as yet to review the proposed 
amendment to the Student Con
gress Constitution concerning Su
preme Courts jurisdiction.
Publicity 
Dick Brand asked that the post
ers announcing Student Congress 
meetings be left up until after the 
meeting has been held. Many rep
resentatives have been missing 
meetings because they do not 
know about them except through 
these signs.
The Campus Chest Committee 
Report was given by chairman 
Pete Sargeant. Pete reported that 
the total number of students con
tributing was 1,445. The total 
amount of donations was $1,421.59, 
an average donation of 98.3 cents 
per donar. The average donation 
should be raised after the returns 
from the UMOC contests are in
cluded to above $1 per donation.
New Motions 
Two motions that were passed 
C t this Congress meeting were: 
The activities Committee of Stu
dent Congress recommends that 
the Tech Social Club be recog
nized, on a temporary basis, as an 
organization of Student Congress 
and: Be it moved that Article I, 
Section II b of the Constitution of 
Student Congress ,be suspended 
for the Student Congress elections 
of May, 1959.
Bob Cleveland announced that 
 11 committee reports were due in 
on May 13.
BULLETIN BOARDThe Woodlawn Pharmacy 
Caters To Smart People
Prescriptions are our business. And our business is different 
from any other business. Here is where our business is different! 
You cant look up the price for that prescription in the news
paper ads, nor can you compare this prescription with the price 
your Aunt Tessie paid for her prescription last month. The 
reason is obvious  each prescription is individually designed 
for a specific condition in an entirely different person. The point 
is that your prescription is not a commodity like a loaf of bread 
or a can of paint. There are no specials on prescriptions for 
heart conditions nor a sale on compounds for high blood pres
sure! And this is rightly so. Nevertheless, sometimes misunder
standings about prescription prices occur. To prevent such situa
tions, we wish you would show us your prescription and ask 
the cost of filling it. Give us a few minutes to check the ingredi
ents and quantities, and we will be pleased to tell you exactly 
how much we must charge. In fact, well both feel better about 
it. Youbecause you will know in advance what the cost will 
be. Webecause we will know that you are exercising your 
prerogative of doing business where you want. That proves you 
are smart and intelligent. That is one reason they shop at the 
Woodlawn Pharmacy.
Emerson Club
Sunday, April 19, at 3:00 p.m. 
is Emerson Club time again. Why 
not join the group at the First 
Unitarian Church (Ellsworth and 
Morewood) for worthwhile dis
cussion and valuable fellowship.
Social League
The dormitory social league will 
have a party in the Morewood rec
reation room this Saturday, April 
18. The party, which is a date and 
stag affair, will feature a profes
sional hypnotist. Slight fee for 
non-members.
(By the Author of'Rally Round the Flag, Boys! and, 
Barefoot Boy with Cheek.)
THE CARE AND FEEDING OF ROOM-MATES
Room-mates are not only heaps of fun, but they are also very 
educational, for the proper study of mankind is man, and there 
is no better way to learn the dreams and drives of another man 
than to share a room with him.
This being the case, it is wise not to keep the same room
mate too long, because the more room-mates you have, the 
more you will know about the dreams and drives of your 
fellow man. So try to change room-mates as often as you can. 
A recent study made by Sigafoos of Princeton shows that the 
best interval for changing room-mates is every four hours.
How do you choose a room-mate? Most counselors agree 
that the most important thing to look for in room-mates is that 
they be people of regular habits. This, I say, is arrant nonsense. 
What if one of their regular habits happens to be beating a 
Chinese gong from midnight to dawn? Or growing cultures in 
your tooth glass? Or reciting the Articles of War?
We require a B.S. or an advanced degree 
in mathematics or the physical sciences. 
Experience in your universitys computing 
facility is highly desirable.
SPACE TECHNOLOGY
Offers work of the future 
...today!
Regular habits, my foot! The most important quality in a 
room-mate is that he should be exactly your size. Otherwise 
you will have to have his clothes altered to fit you, which can 
be a considerable nuisance. In fact, it is sometimes flatly im
possible. I recollect one time I roomed with a man named 
Osage Tremblatt who was just under seven feet tall and weighed 
nearly four hundred pounds. There wasnt a blessed thing I 
could use in his entire wardrobeuntil one night when I was 
invited to a masquerade party. I cut one leg off a pair of Tremblatts trousers, jumped into it, sewed up both ends, and went 
to the party as a bolster. I took second prize. First prize went 
to a girl named Antenna Radnitz who poured molasses over 
her head and went as a candied apple.
But I digress. Let us turn back to the qualities that make 
desirable room-mates. Not the least of these is the cigarettes 
they smoke. When we bum cigarettes, do we want them to be 
shoddy and nondescript? Certainly not! We want them to be 
distinguished, gently reared, zestful and zingy. And what ciga
rette is distinguished, gently reared, zestful and zingy? Why, 
Philip Morris, of corris! Any further questions?
To go on. In selecting a room-mate, find someone who will 
wear well, whom youd like to keep as a permanent friend. 
Many of historys great friendships first started in college. Are 
you aware, for example, of the remarkable fact that Johnson 
and Boswell were room-mates at Oxford in 1712? What makes 
this fact so remarkable is that in 1712 Johnson was only three 
years old and Boswell had not yet been born. But, of course, 
children matured earlier in those days. Take Mozart, who 
wrote his first symphony at four. Or Titian, who painted his 
first masterpiece at five. Or Hanso Felbgung, who was in many 
ways the most remarkable of all; he was appointed chief of the 
Copenhagen police department at the age of six!
It must be admitted, however, that he did badly. Criminals 
roamed the city, robbing and looting at will. They knew little 
Hanso would never pursue themhe was not allowed to cross 
the street.
Computer programmers & 
applied mathematicians
High speed digital computers and expanding 
computing systems require individuals 
with more than the usual amount of 
interest and ability in the fields of Applied 
Mathematics and related computer 
programming.
Our Computation and Data Reduction 
Center in Southern California is one of the 
largest and most advanced facilities in 
the nation. Three of the largest and most 
modern high-speed digital computers 
(IBM 709, 704, and UNI VAC 1103 A) are 
utilized in the support of Systems Engineering 
for the Air Force Ballistic Missile Program 
and space flight studies.
Tau Beta Pi 
Aids Freshmen
Contact your placement office for an 
application, or send any inquiries to Space 
Technology Laboratories, Inc. to 
the attention of Mr. Gerald Backer.
Space Technology jflBk 
Laboratories, Inc.
P.O. Box 95004, Los Angeles 45, California
If you are allowed to cross the street, hie yourself to a to
bacconist and stock up on Philip Morris, outstanding among 
non-filter cigarettes, or Marlboro, the filter cigarette with 
better "makinsPick your pleasure.

---------------------------------------------------

Fam 4CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 15, I#M
Keep It Clean
Spring is here and the great masses of 
Tech students who usually spend their time 
in Skibo have migrated to the Fine Arts 
Lawn. This spot of great scenic beauty is in
deed a pleasant place to cut classes, eat ice 
cream, and bask in the sun.
However, Tine Arts Lawn Sitting may 
soon be discontinued from the Carnegie cur
riculum. The reason: students have been 
careless by leaving paper and other debris 
strewn over the lawn. Efforts by the groundskeepers to discourage this carelessness were 
met with more debris than before. Visitors 
to the campus were shocked at the sight of 
sheets of paper being blown about the cam
pus.
Please show your pride in the campus and 
at the same time keep our fine arts lawn 
privileges by making the effort to place 
debris in the waste cans provided.'Opening Nights just aren't what they used to be.
r
aroI femfa
Total Abstinence
|llllllllllllll!lllllllllllllllllllllllll!IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIi
| Readers Write . . . |
Hniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiil 
Third Offense
Editors, the Tartan:
I can heartily applaud the letter by Mr. Joel Edelman 
which appeared in the April eighth issue of the Tartan since 
I too was involved in the incident of which Mr. Edelman
writes. He has accurately de-* -------------------------------------------
scribed the actions of the police
and the injustice of the court.
I feel, however, that a third of
fense has been committeed by 
the school administration. By 
its silence on the issue, it has 
seemingly endorsed the actions of 
the police and approved the de
cision of the court.
No Satisfaction
I have debated the point pri
vately with Dr. G. K. Brown and 
have received no satisfaction. It is 
for this reason that I have de
cided to present the case to the 
faculty and students, feeling that 
they are entitled to know what 
course the administration has 
chosen to pursue.
The newspapers have publish
ed false and incriminating state
ments about students of Carnegie 
Tech. Dr. Brown has taken no 
steps and, in fact, has refused to 
issue a public statement of facts 
concerning the events of the eve
ning of April first. I strongly feel 
that it is the obligation of the ad
ministration to protect its students 
from unjust and defaming accusa
tions. The fact that the university 
is entrusted with the welfare of 
its members charges it with this 
responsibility.
Sanction
Dr. Brown has told me that 
anything but a private admission 
that a wrong has been committed 
would, in his opinion, have the ef
fect of sanctioning student dem
onstrations: I feel that a state
ment of this nature would be in 
no way pave the way for future 
incidents of this type and could, 
in fact, constitute a very strong 
deterrent to such occurrences. I 
realize that in most cases it is not 
the province of the student to 
question administration policies.
In this case, however, I feel 
that the college can suffer no 
loss of prestige by publicly ad
mitting that some of its students 
have received unjust and entirely 
uncalled-for punishment. In fact, 
it would gain immeasurably in 
stature by adopting a policy to 
uphold its students in the interest 
of justice regardless of whether it 
is distasteful to a few.
Student Body
Dr. Brown has further stated 
that the incidents which led to 
this situation were originated by 
the student body, which he .has 
described as immature and ir
responsible, and therefore, that 
action to restore justice should 
also originate with the students. 
Perhaps this is correct and I con
gratulate Student Congress on its 
intelligent stand on the issue.
None the less, no statement or 
vindication by Student Congress 
has the effect of an official state
ment by the administration.
The Police
Although the incident was orig
inated by a small group of stu
dents, the fact remains that Dr. 
Brown, imagining the situation 
beyond his control, summoned the 
police to the scene. Then, with 
what appears to be indifference, 
he seemed to encourage the law to 
impose unusually harsh punish
ment without any attempt to es
tablish the innocense of those in
volved.
By this action the administra
tion seems to feel that if two 
wrongs dont make a right per
haps three will. I strongly ques
tion the right of the college to 
refuse to admit its mistake to the 
end that defamation of character 
of a few student results.
To the large majority this let
ter will be dismissed as tilting at 
windmills or regarded as an at
tempt to merely create contro
versy. I can only hope that there 
are members of the faculty and 
student body (and I am certain 
that there are many) who share 
my beliefs regarding the obliga
tions of the college administra
tion toward its students in any 
sort of difficulty and feel strongly 
enough about the matter to help 
insure that the administration 
will take a positive stand.
Sincerely yours,
Joel Downey
Injustice
Editor, the Tartan:
Since the first of April, the Tech 
air has been thick with stories of 
police brutality and injustice. To 
those innocent spectators who suf
fered under Pittsburghs finest 
or the local judicial system, I wish 
to express my sympathy.
However, ultimately the blame 
for their misfortunes must rest 
with their foolish classmates 
those who participated in the at
tempted raid on Morewood Gar
dens. The indignation expressed 
against the city of Pittsburgh 
might therefore be better directed 
against the organizers and partici
pants.
It is an interesting reflection 
that, while foreign students rally 
for political or academic freedom, 
we must riot for womens under
wear,
Roger C. Krueger 
M E. 61
Activities
Editor, the Tartan
The Thistle staff is busy prepare 
ing the 1959 yearbook for publi
cation now, and needs the support 
of the Carnegie Tech student body 
in meeting its sales contract.
The staff is disturbed at the 
apathy which many students 
show, not only toward the pur
chase of a yearbook but also to
wards most activities on campus.
Apathy
It is true that some of the 
apathy stems from the fact that 
campus organizations do not al
ways make known their activities 
to prospective members; neverthe
less, it is the student himself who 
many times disregards any at
tempt on the .part of an organiza
tion to drum up interest in non
members.
Carnegie Tech has certainly 
provided a variety of extra-curri
cular activities for the student 
body. There is probably at least 
one organization on campus which 
appeals to each Techite. Look at 
the number of groups, however, 
which are practically non-existant because of lack of members. 
Turn through the pages of the or
ganizations section in last years 
Thistle. Notice the large number 
of activities which exist in name 
only. Notice the small number of 
organizations which participate 
actively on campus.
Membership
Many of these groups dont 
stand a chance unless something 
is done to increase their member
ship. Why not set up an Activities 
Fair for upperclassmen to be held 
at the time of registration second 
semester? This would give groups 
a chance to make their activities 
known on campus the first semes
ter. The membership drive at 
second semester registration would 
probably receive gratifying re
sults.
Many groups also need the sup
port of non-members to be suc
cessful. Publications must be sold, 
audiences are needed, contribu
tions must be made. This merely 
requires interest on the part of 
the student body. The obligation 
of membership is not included.
How can any group hope to be 
successful if the student body 
doesnt support it?
LEILA MOORE 
Sales Manager, 
Thistle
Free Cigarettes
The author of any Letter to 
the Editor published in the 
Tartan will receive a free 
carton of Marlboro cigarettes. 
This service has been made 
possible through Harry Desiletes, Techs Marlboro repre
sentative.
Serious consideration should at once be 
given to eliminating one of the major prob
lems on the Carnegie Tech campus. The con
sumption of alcoholic beverages is, a priori, 
a sin, and furthermore a multitude of com
plications and problems inevitably accom
pany the demon in the bottle. Riots, waters 
fights, and party raids result when naive, 
inexperienced college boys fresh from midwestern farms, quiet Eastern towns, and 
from the lumber camps in the Northwest are 
lead to imbibing by intense social pressure.
Young inexperienced college girls, co
erced into taking a nip, often allows morals to sag with the 
decreased physical alertness caused by drink. Alcohol has 
a pronounced effert on studying as well. Not only is valuable 
study time consumed on Friday and Saturday nights during 
the drinking bouts, but hang-overs spoil church attendance 
and completely wreck the possibility of studying on Sunday.
If drinking were discontinued on campus, the money 
saved could be applied to more useful causes and the addi
tional study time would boost the drooping mens average. 
Even Nikita Krushchev has realized the ill-effects of alco
holic beverages and has cautioned the Russian people against 
their consumption. If we are to keep up with the Russianf 
we must assume a like course. Many United States colleges 
and Universities have already realized this and Tech, a leader 
in many respects, must in this one follow.
We must realize the evils of drink and take the only 
course available in ridding ourselves of them. Fraternities 
and sororities should organize temperance communities, cam
pus leaders should breach the problem and its only solution 
to their groups, commuters should organize councils to pre
vent their members from making barroom stops on the wav 
home, the dorm council should publish temperance leaflets, 
and a representative from student congress should enlist the 
aid of Dean Brown, who, according to reliable sources, has 
done excellent temperance work on other college campuses.
Blenheim
A Job Well Done
The entire Tech campus owes retiring Tartan co-editor* 
Carol Sooby and Richard Wiley a debt of sincere appreciation 
for their many long hours of work with the Tartan.
Few indeed have given as much of themselves in time 
and effort for the benefit of their fellow students as have 
Carol and Dick. No one doubts that they are to be commended 
for what they have accomplished during the years they have 
served their school.
Though they will soon be graduating, they should not 
feel that their labors have gone unnoticed. The Tech campus 
joins to say, Thanks again for a job well done. J.D.S.
CARNEGIE
TARTAN
CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh 13, 
Pa. Office phone, MU 2-4557; Co-Editors EM 1-7157 and MU 2-9053; 
Advertising Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the schc 
year except holidays and examination periods by the students of 
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Co-Editor ......................................................................................................................... Carol Sooby
Co-Editor .............................................................. Richard Wiley
Business Manager .............................................................. Lee Adelsberg
Associate Editor .............................................................................................................. David Dali
News Editor ............................................................................................................. Jan Notoponlos
Sports Editor ................................................................................................................. Georfe Pari
Copy Editor .................................................................................................................. Jerry Sullivan
Assistant News EditorJan Notopoulos, Photography EditorAlan 
Gickler, Assistant Business ManagerMichael D. Balsam, Advertising Manager  Miles Hollander, Assistant Advertising Manager  Mark 
Seltzer, SecretaryRena Siegel, Circulation ManagerGary Branden
burger, TransportationGene Rietzke.
News Staff  Mike Brunt, Dori Cline, Linda Friedlob, Sally 
Ganong, Paul Hess, Phil James, Beth Liden, Arlene Logioco, Bill 
Mohney, Betsy Moss, Bob Nowak, Terrie Rudy, Carolyn Saxton, Ira 
Shapiro, Georgia White, Lois Wolfe.Sports StaffDick Hamilton, Mike Beaman, Chuck Vodrarka. 
Copy StaffFrank Baloh, Spence Anderson, Mary Anne Melton, 
Janis Geisler, Roger Fager, Jim Whalen.Circulation StaffJim Phillips, Larry Dominik.
Second class postage paid at Pittsburgh, Pa.for national advertising by National Advertising, lwi

---------------------------------------------------

Students!!
1 Hour Dry (leaning
2 Hour Shirt Laundry 
Rough Dry Laundry 
Tailoring and Repairing
Campus Cleaners
4609 Forbes Ave.
(Near Craig Street)
EditorDennis DeStefano
Westinghouse Manager 
To Speak At Banquet
ousAlC aAinaaAgTS
Thinktisht CURFUWHE
SfSan DIS VONFB EXAEfXf TCfCR CRfaSRPT
English: HIP SINGING GROUP
S& Thinkllsh translation: These guys are so
JbL far out, they wear space helmets. They
never ask, How High the Moon? They 
i # know. When there were seven of them,
they were a heptet. But since theyve 
added a man, simple arithmetic makes 
yjr them a rocktet! Naturally, when they take
-r^L ten, they take Luckies. Like anyone else
-pf (square, round or what-have-you), they
Sm know all about the honest taste of fine
/ tobacco. Consensus: flipsville!
ORIENTAL AMBULANCE
Tbinktith: S1CKSHAW
HARRISON*ICHAR0CSR ltimorPre-Convention
Dance
To promote the MAP con
vention in Baltimore among 
students of this region, C.I.T. 
Evening School Newman Club 
is sponsoring a pre-conven
tion dance. It will be held at 
Cardinal Newman Hall 125 N. 
Craig St., Sunday, April 19, 
at 8:00. The admission is 50c 
per person, and refreshments 
will be served. Students from 
all colleges in the region are 
invited.
HOW TO MAKE 52 5
'LUCKY?
CARNEGf
Take a word garbage, for example. With it, you can make the contents of 
an auto junk yard (carbage), Hollywood refuse (starbage), incinerator dust 
(<charbage) or glass-factory rejects (Jarbage). Thats Thinklishand its that 
easy! Were paying $25 for the Thinklish words judged bestyour check is 
itching to go! Send your words to Lucky Strike, Box 67A, Mt. Vernon, N.Y. 
Enclose your name, address, university and class.
Get the genuine article
Get the honest taste
of a LUCKY STRIKE
Product cf jtuMcnt Jv&x* is our muidle name
FOR COMPLETE 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
HARDWARE, PAINT.
3606 Forbes St. MA 1-092

---------------------------------------------------

Pag 6CARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 15, 1959
Sweepstakes Date " 
From 1920 Event
By Jim Shriver
If you had witnessed the first Sweepstakes Race on May 
14, 1920, you would have gotten quite a surprise. That was 
the first time anything like a buggy contest had ever been 
tried at Tech.
The conglomeration of rail bar-*-
rels with bicycle wheels, fourwheeled orange crates, and three
wheeled ash cans put on quite a 
hilarious show as they started up 
Tech Street. They ran only one 
heat in those days, so things quite 
often got a little fouled up, and 
accidents were the usual thing.
First Buggy Race
One observer said of the first 
event: Promptly at 9:30 the pis
tol cracked and the race was on. 
As the mighty chariots roared up 
to the first turn, the Delta Upsilon 
Grasshopper lost a wing and 
smashed into the curb. From then 
on the carnage was frightful, and 
the ambulances had plenty of 
work. Four minutes and thirty 
seconds from the start, the SAE 
and the PiKA entries whizzed up 
to the finish line for a tie.
In the next few years, various 
different aspects of the race were 
changed. One year, it was re
quired of buggies to enter the 
pit and change the left rear 
wheel to the right axle and vice 
versa.
Girls Race
In 1923 and 1924 the girls got 
into the act by having a scooter 
race. An eyewitness of the girls in 
the race says, Their speed was 
evidently judged more by their 
costumes than by their place at 
the finish line.
Campus Chest Ends 
Successful Drive 
With 1,445 Gifts
The Campus Chest ended a suc
cessful drive with the school par
ticipation. The money collected 
from the drive is now being sent 
out to the agencies represented 
by the Chest.
The total number of students 
contributing was 1,445. The av
erage donation was 98.3 cents per 
student which accounts for the 
total donation of $1,421.59. The 
highest percentage of group do
nations came from the graduate 
school with an average donation 
of $1.75 and 90% participation.
Alpha Phi Omega 
Announces 1959 
Ugly Man Contest
Alpha Phi Omega is again spon
soring the Ugly Man on Campus 
contest.
The candidates for the title as 
of April 6th are: Basil Gantt, Del
ta Tau Delta, Chuck Burger, Deltta Upsilon, Amie Zaslove, Scotch 
and Soda, Phil Garcia, Theta Xi, 
Norman Ostau, Beta Sigma Rho, 
Yale Roth, Tau Delta Phi, and 
John Olmstead, Beta Theta Pi.
The voting will be held from 
11:30 to 1:30, Monday through 
Thursday, April 13-17. A penny 
amounts to one vote for a can
didate. Voting is unlimited and 
the money collected will be add
ed to the Campus Chest fund. The 
man receiving the most votes will 
be awarded the Ugly Cup at the 
Spring Carnival formal.
Explorers
[continued from page 2] 
often included ice cakes up to two 
feet thick. Land lubbers looked 
on in amazement at both these 
capers, but their chins dropped 
when we asked, How far to New 
Orleans?
Because of the success of this 
years trip, the club ensures other 
canoe enthusiasts that there will 
be more canoe trip plans in store 
for the near future.
The report goes even further to 
say that some of the girls wore 
the equivalent of Bermuda shorts. 
The girls scooter race, however, 
was soon replaced by a rollerskating race. Recently, sorority 
relays of various types have come 
to the fore.
It wasnt until 1926 that some
one had the idea of having the 
time trials on Friday morning and 
the finals on Saturday morning. 
The running of buggies in heats 
of three cut down the accident 
problem considerably and raised 
the number of entries.
Competition Increases 
It was also in 1926 that a first 
trophy was given for design. This 
was the trophy which started the 
long climb of increasing competi
tion which has become more evi
dent in the past few years.
The buggy race of today evolved 
from that 1926 race in which a 
new time record of 3:22 was set. 
Since then the record has been 
broken many times, with the most 
recent record of 2:25 being set by 
ATO two years ago.
If youre out on a limb about 
choosing your cigarette, re
member this: more people 
smoke Camels than any 
other brand today. The cost
ly Camel blend has never 
been equalled for rich flavor 
and easygoing mildness. The 
best tobacco makes the best 
smoke.
Escape from fads
and fancy stuff ..
Have a real 
cigarette - 
have a CAMEL
It might not be the final solution, 
but a Camel would help I
Beynolds Tob. Co., Winston-Salem, N\C.
atmosphere
*a surrounding or pervading influence
There are several prevailing atmos
pheres at GPL. The working atmos
phere is thoroughly professional. 
Management is by engineers who 
understand the engineers goals, 
ambitions and working preferences. 
GPL engineers work in small groups, 
which encourage original contribu
tions from every individual.
The other atmosphere at GPL in
volves the physical the modern 
buildings and equipment, the excel
lent research and development facili
ties. These include an Environmental 
Test Lab, a Flight Test Section 
equipped with jet and conventional 
aircraft, and model shops for both 
formal prototype and informal 
experimental work. There is also a 
modern library of more than 2500 
volumes. GPL is situated on 69 
estate-like acres less than an hour 
from New York City, in residential 
Pleasantville in Westchester County.
At GPL you will have full opportun
ity to select the work of greatest 
interest to you, and you may choose 
to accept a direct assignment in that 
area, or participate in GPLs train
ing program to broaden your engi
neering understanding.
These are some of the projects on 
which you might eventually work:
Air Traffic Control. GPL has a
prominent role in the development 
of'digital computer systems and 
devices for safe, efficient air naviga
tion and traffic control.
Advanced Radar. GPL is th 
leading designer and builder of 
Doppler navigation systems, and is 
actively involved with terrainclearance, missile guidance, and 
other radar system applications, 
both military and commercial.
Research. Advanced studies are 
underway at GPL on such projects 
as infrared techniques, Maser am
plifiers, nuclear magnetic resonance, 
and other classified devices.
Industrial TV. GPL is an out
standing developer and producer of 
broadcast and closed-circuit TV 
devices .and systems, for military 
and commercial applications.
There are excellent career openings 
for EEs, MEs, Mathematics and 
Physics majors.
GPLs representative will visit 
APRIL 23
GpL
ft
GENERAL PRECISION LABORATORY Incorporated, Pleasantville, N T./*.oww.ryf

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, April 15, 1959CARNEGIE TARTANPa*e 7
?
?
?
?Do You Think for
1. When your friends impart confidences, I |
do you feel (A) uncomfortable, or A j___|
(B) complimented??
?
?
6. Is it your feeling that close I j
friendships with superiors would be A |___|
(A) a great help, or (B) actually a 
hindrance to your career with a firm?
?
3. Would your first reaction to a difficult j j
committee appointment be that you had A1 I
been (A) stuck, or (B) honored?
-%* ' " ' Phi Kaps Unite 
With Theta Kappa 
Phi Fraternity
On Wednesday, April 29, 1959 
the Phi Kaps will no longer be 
formally known as Phi Kappa 
Fraternity. The new name will be 
phi Kappa Theta.
^he change in name will result 
from the consolidation of Phi 
Kappa Fraternity and Theta Kappa 
Phi Fraternity. This juncture was 
voted upon by each fraternity at 
a joint national convention held 
in Columbus, Ohio on September 
8 of last year at which time the 
name was chosen.
Consolidation
This union is properly called a 
p^isolidation and is neither a 
Merger nor absorption of either 
of the predecessor fraternities. It 
is for this reason that all mem
bers, alumni, active and honorary, 
of the two fraternities will there
for automatically become mem
bers of the successor organization, 
Phi Kappa Theta.
However the foundation date 
of the new fraternity will take 
the founding date of Phi Kappa 
Sy; older of the two uniting fra
ternities. It will be known that 
Phi Kappa Theta was founded at 
Brown and Lehigh Universities 
and that Founders Day is April 
29, 1889.
Tech Chapter
On the Tech campus, the 
change to the new official name 
Phi Kappa Theta will not be too 
drastic. They will still be known 
as the Phi Kaps. The same will 
*>ld true for the chapters at Pitt 
and Duquesne.
As it stands now, both existing 
national offices will be xcontinued 
at Cincinnati, Ohio and at Worehester, Massachusetts. After the 
consolidation in April, both will 
serve Phi Kappa Theta with sep
arate responsibilities. The Worchester office will be under the 
direction of George V. Uehlein 
(Theta KappaWorchester Techf
) while the Cincinnati office will 
under the direction of Frank 
L. Chinery (Phi KappaKansas 
16.)
It is usually the case that men and women 
who really think for themselves come 
around to VICEROY as their brand of filter 
cigarette . . . for two very good reasons: 
VICEROY is the one cigarette that gives 
them a thinking mans filter and a smoking 
mans taste.
*7/ yoil checked (B) on any six of the nine 
questions . . . you really think for yourself!
 959. Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corp.
The Man Who Thinks for Himself KnowsFamiliar 
pack or 
crush* 
proof
ONLY VICEROY HAS A THINKING MANS 
FILTER ... A SMOKING MANS TASTE I
CARNEGIE PARK SPORTSWEAR
629 Liberty Ave.
COX'S STORE FOR MEN McKeesport 
MANSMANN'S DEPARTMENT STORE
5911 Penn Ave.
ALEX REICH 212 North Highland Ave
PRICE'S MEN'S WEAR
Dormont - Mt. Lebanon
9. Which would weigh more 
heavily in your choice of filter 
cigarettes: (A) the opinions 
of friends with similar tastes, 
or (B) your own 
considered judgment?
engineering students:
Important career opportunities await you at Link Aviation. 
Links increasing prominence and diversification in elec
tronics enable it to offer promising career opportunities to 
engineering students. Link, a leading producer of elec
tronic flight simulators, has expanded into many fields, 
including automatic control, optical and visual display 
systems, digital computers, instrumentation, and is now the 
worlds largest producer of analog computing equipment.
Engineering graduates joining the Link organization 
are assured that their special interests and skills will be 
utilized to the best advantage. Link offers supplemental 
training designed for engineers, by engineers. The com
pany also provides a financial assistance program to 
encourage its engineers to undertake graduate studies.
The working atmosphere at Link is thoroughly profes
sional, because management men are engineers and under
stand the engineers viewpoint and ambitions. Salaries 
are excellent, fringe benefits ample. Links locations in 
Binghamton, in the heart of New York States vacationland, and in Palo Alto, California, in the beautiful San 
Francisco Bay area, make it an ideal place to live, work 
and play.
A Link representative will be on the Carnegie Tech 
campus April 22 Make your appointment with 
your placement office now.
LINK AVIATION INCORPORATED, BINGHAMTON, N. Y.*A subsidiary of General Precision Equipment Corporation.
For the man who 
cant press 
after every meal
These DICKIES flap-pocket Ivy 
slacks take minimum care 
because theyre real Wash and 
Wear. Your exact size assured 
with the exclusive Dickies 
no sew waistband let-out.
Vnnrcnlf OfTH,S SHOFtT quiz )/ WUrS\Si T m {WILL TIP YOU OFF *J
B
A
GENERAL
PRECISION
COMPANY
2. Do you prefer a task which demands 
(A) the organization of complex details, 
or (B) a constant flow of ideas?
7. Which, to your mind, has the greater .1 j
influence on you in making a good grade: 1___I
(A) the instructor, or (B) the subject " 
matter of a course?
B
Do you believe that the saying haste 
makes waste is (A) always true, or 
(B) often false?
Do you find that you work or study 
more effectively (A) under supervision, 
or (B) on your own schedule?
4. If you were a contestant on a quiz 
program which of these question 
categories would you prefer: (A) popular 
songs of today, or (B) current events?

---------------------------------------------------

hft ICARNEGIE TARTANWednesday, April 15, 1*5
Jeon naff 
Tops Tech
Harriers
Carnegie Tartan
Golf
Season
Begins Soon
George Paris  Sports Editor
Harriers Downed 
By Jeannette, 67-64
Flynn Selected As 
This Years MVP 
In IM Basketball
By Chuck Vuclvarka
Last Thursday a first and sec
ond all-school basketball team 
was selected. Those who made 
the team this year were, undoubt
edly, outstanding; however, there 
are a few surprising facts that 
arise from this years selections.
Three fellows returned to the 
first team all-school from last 
years quintet. They are Ed 
Horey and Jim Trageser, Falcons, 
and Boyd Doxtader, Englishmen. 
The two selections, other than 
these three, are Bob Rapp and 
Mike Flynn.
Former Varsity
Of these five, four of them 
starred on the freshman varsity 
squad in their respective fresh
man years. Bob Rapp, the only 
one who didnt play varsity ball 
at one time or other, has been the 
only person to make two all-school 
teams this year. He also was first 
team end in intramural football. 
Mikes scoring in intramurals was 
comparable to Big Os point 
making with respect to other hoop 
stars in the nation. He is the 
MVP this year due to his all
round play.
The second string showed these 
stars on its roster: Pete Bouxsein, 
freshman hot shot of Sigma Nu; 
Jim Beisler, second year on all
school second team and second 
high scorer of the Englishmen; A1 
Wolfson, ballhawk and high 
scorer from the Tau Delts; Earl 
Benner, rebound leader and drivein specialist of Kappa Sig; and 
set shot ace, playmaker, and or
ganizer of the Englishmen, Joe 
Martin.
Surprise
A surprising fact is that high 
scoring stars did not automatically 
make the all-school teams. This 
is evident in not finding freshman 
hoopsters, Enn Epner and Otto 
Leone, and Tony Petran, graduate, 
on the list. Such consequences in
dicate a very successful season.
Intramural 
Highlites
Horseshoe pitching begins Sat
urday. There are 92 participants, 
or 46 teams, entered in competition 
this year. Both last years champs 
Mike Flynn and Phil Wicklander, 
and last years runner-up, Joe 
Martin and Jack Mehalko, are 
back in hopes of keeping their ti
tles.
Track rosters are due this Fri
day. All eleven qualifying events 
will be run on Tuesday. Finals 
will be run on the Thursday fol
lowing.
Chess
Sigma Nu and the Hanging 
Pawns should easily win their re
spective leagues in chess. All 
chess matches will terminate by 
Tuesday or forfeit fees will be as
sessed.
The final bridge match between 
the Four Jokers and the Grad 
Slams has not been played yet; 
however, SAE edged out the 
Whiz Kids to place third this year.
Handball
This years Faculty Bulldogs, 
composed of Mr. Boyer, Mr. Cratsley, Mr. Milie, Mr. Birdy, Mr. 
Haynes, and Mr. Trezise, are sure 
to be a cinch to repeat as campus 
champs in handbalL So far they 
are undefeated in league play.
Up-to-date point standings: 
ATO32%, SAE31, Englishmen 
18, Obelisk16, and BSR14.
The Tartan harriers were down
ed in their first dual meet of the 
season by the Jeannette harriers 
by a close 67 to 64 score.
Jeannette was led by some out
standing ex-college stars includ
ing Wes King (19 points in field 
events), Fred Dickinson (winner 
of 440 and half mile) who had 
starred at Slippery Rock, and 
Hal Bartulski, ex North Carolina 
star who threw the Javelin 210 
feet.
Techs superiority in running 
events showed as clearly as their 
lack of field men. The Skibos 
outscored Jeannette 59 to 18 in 
running events but were scalped 
in field events by a 49 to 5.
Tech Stars
Tech stars included Bill Wittman winner of the mile and run
ner up in the half mile, Eric 
Ottervik who won the two mile 
in fine time of 10:23, and Dick 
Hamilton who placed second in 
the mile and two mile events.
Sprinters who ran well for the 
Skibos were A1 Tompkins winner 
of the 100 and 200, Ty Porter who 
was runner up in both these 
events, Milt Miles double winner 
in the hurdle events, and the 
winning mile relay team of
Schmitz, Churma, Merle King, and 
Eric Suggs.
Mile Run1Wittman, CT; 2Ham
ilton, CT; 3  Dagenhartt, CT. Time  
4:37.8.
440-Yard Run1Dickinson, J; 2 
Schmitz, CT; 3Hutchinson, CT. Time 
:52.6.
100-Yard Dash1Tompkins, CT; 2 
Porter, CT; 3Copeland, J. Time:10.3.
120-Yard High Hurlles1Miles, CT; 
2Albrightft, J; 3Goldblatt, CT. Time 
:17.1.
880-Yard Run  1  Dickinson, J; 2  
Wittman, CT; 3M. King, CT. Time 
2:05.2.
220-Yard Dash-1Tompkins, CT; 2 
Porter, CT; 3Suggs, CT. Time:24.0.
Two-Mile Run  1  Ottervik, CT; 2  
Hamilton, CT; 3Anderson, CT. Time 
10:23.1.
120-Yard Low Hurdles1Miles, CT; 
2Thomas, J; 3  Albright, J. Time  
:13.6.
Rugged Softball ^
Schedule Begins
Twenty-one teams entered three 
softball leagues this year.
Two leagues look especially 
stacked, while the other appears 
to be rather meager. In this weak 
league we find two strong teams 
in Beta Sigs and the Tau Delta, 
with possible competition ir Q * 
the Delts and the Englishmen^
In one of the stronger leagues 
we find Kappa Sigma, last years 
champs. They will face plenty o( 
competition in DU, PK, and BTP, 
along with the Falcons and the 
Newman Club.
The strongest of the three 
leagues finds the runners-up for 
the past two years, SAE, the fav
orite. Strong opposition is expect
ed from ATO, Sigma Nu, 
Grads, TKN, and Citcom.
Experienced Team 
Returns In Golf
The Tech golf team will begin 
season play Tuesday in a match 
with Waynesburg at the Jacket* 
course. Home matches will be 
played at the Wildwood course 
this year.
Returning lettermen who figure 
to bolster the Tech attack this 
year include Fred Heider, Jerry 
Kruezer, Jerry Coon, and Howie 
Mattick. This years schedule:
April 14at Waynesburg; 16at Wash
ington & Jefferson; 21  at Duquesne; 
24Geneva; 28St. Francis; 29at St 
Vincent.May 5Duquesne; 8Westminster; 1] 
at Grove City; 14St. Vincent; 19at 
Pitt.
SAM ROSS
Complete Tuxedo Rental
124 OAKLAND AVE. 
PITTSBURGH 13, PA.
Student Rate #>>
William J. Marino, Prop. MU 2-7310
INFRA-RED
.RESEARCH  19SS...MASS PRODUCTION
For 15 years Aerojet-General has pioneered 
the research and development of infra-red devices. 
Now, Aerojet and Aerojet alone has perfected 
the high-volume production of infra-red systems for:
GUIDANCE 
WIDE-ANGLE SEARCH 
AUTOMATIC TRACKING 
GUNFIRE CONTROL
SCIENTISTSENGINEERS
Aerojet invites you to pinpoint your own targets, 
lock on your own future.. .In the dynamic new 
fields of infra-red and rocket propulsion.
 Mechanical Engineers
 Electronic Engineers
 Chemical Engineers
 Electrical Engineers
 Aeronautical Engineers
 Civil Engineers
 Chemists
 Physicists
 Mathematicians 
CORPORATION
A Subsidiary of 
bew General Tire & Rubber Companyingnillii
PLANTS AT AZUSA AND
NEAR SACRAMENTO. CALIFORNIA
An Aerojet-General representative will be
on campus on APRIL 17 Contact 
your Placement Office for details.
