#EFFECTS ON STUDENTS REPORTED TO BE MINIMAL:
Financial Aid Budget 
Slashed
by Steven Correll
The administration has cut $300,000 
from the 1973-4 financial aid budget, but 
the degree to which students feel the bite 
depends in part on whether the federal 
government adopts new aid programs.
In response to rumors, President Cyert 
firmly promised that drastic changes of 
policy, such as elimination of scholarships 
9 for juniors and seniors, would not take 
place in time to affect current under
graduates.
According to John Hine, Director of 
Financial Aid, a combination of stricter aid 
supervision, increased federal generosity, 
and new funds from restricted and accu
mulated endowment will allow for the 39 
percent cut with little decrease in the 
^average students scholarship.
Hine plans to tighten aid application 
requirements in two respects. First, all. 
entering freshmen who are qualified for 
state scholarships will be required to apply 
for them before receiving money from 
CMU; a new Pennsylvania policy dropping 
SAT requirements for freshman applicants 
should make more students eligible than 
^before. In addition, all upperclassmen must 
now include parental income tax forms 
with applications for aid. The request for 
IRS forms, already adopted by MIT and 
Penn State, stems from a study of their 
usefulness by Allegheny College, whose aid 
director termed the results astounding.
Increased federal support would result 
from a proposal by the Nixon administra
tion to phase out National Defense Edu
cation loans and the Educational 
Opportunity Grant program in favor of a 
new Basic Opportunity Grant that would 
pay the difference between $1400 and the 
students own payment. Students would 
have to obtain bank loans to replace their 
present defense loans, but the new grants
'Plans Set for 
Inauguration
by Sharon Curcio
Vice President Johnson has completed a 
tentative schedule of events for the inaugu
ration of President Cyert on the afternoon 
of March the ninth. Described by Vice 
President Johnson as fairly modest, the 
inaugural ceremony will begin at 2:00 p.m. 
in Skibo ballroom with certain faculty 
members participating in the inaugural 
processional. Addressing an audience which 
includes the presidentsof other prestigious
January 30, 1973 Volume 73 Number 16
WIDEST SPECTRUM OF POSSIBLE LIVING ACCOMODA T/ONS"New Apartments 
Proposed for McGill
0 Vice President Johnson relays information on 
President Cyert's inauguration set for March 9.
V*
John Hine, Director of Financial Aid, discussed 
the effect to students of the $300,000 cut of 
the Financial Aid budget for 1973-74.
would be more generous, reducing the 
amount that CMU would provide from 
budget funds. Hine offered the example of 
a student now receiving a $1000 federal 
grant, $1000 defense loan, $1500 CMU 
grant and $300 work-study. Such a student 
would, under the new program, get $1400 
from the government, $1000 in bank loans, 
$1000 from CMU and $400 on 
work-study. Though this student would 
bear only a $100 increase in non-scholarship funds, the university would save $500. 
William Elliott, Director of Admissions, 
suggested that the university might help 
students get low interest loans, saying, I 
hope that we would not place our students 
at the total mercy of banks and private 
lending services.
Congress has not yet approved the pro
grams, however, though Elliott feels 
passage is 75 per cent likely, and failure to 
do so could still mean smaller proportion 
of scholarship to loans for the average 
student on aid. But Hine promised any 
impact would be spread over all students 
receiving financial aid for a small effect 
continued on page 12
universities, the guest speaker and Chan
cellor of Claremont Colleges, Dr. Howard 
R. Bowen, will present The Challenge of 
the World to the University. A noted 
economist and educational administrator, 
Dr. Bowen earned his Ph.D. at the Univer
sity of Louisiana in 1935 and has since 
held various professorships and positions in 
both business and governmental economic 
advisory. Responding to Dr. Bowens 
challenge, President Cyert will project the 
goals and responsibilities of CMU under his 
leadership.
Especially invited were the presidents of 
the universities of Minnesota and Columbia 
where President Cyert received his B.S. and 
Ph.D. respectively. Representatives from 
other guest groups to attend the inaugur
ation include the newly formed Andrew 
Carnegie Society, the trustees of CMU, 
officers of the various foundations, 
members of the Alumni Board and visiting 
committees. An invitation to the inaugural 
extends to all Alumni, members of the 
faculty and student body and the parents 
of the freshmen since Freshmen Parents 
Day is March the tenth. The most unpre
dictable group are the students. Thus, to 
avoid crowding no one will be admitted 
without a ticket. The Department of Public 
Relations will announce when these tickets 
are available. The public is most welcome 
to stay for the reception following Presi
dent Cyerts speech.
by Gary Bronheim
The director of Housing, William Dillon 
is currently attempting to provide the 
widest spectrum of possible living accom
modations which students might demand 
to the CMU campus community. Because 
of the current waiting list for apartments, 
Dillon will try equaling the supply with the 
demand. He believes that this can be done 
by converting each of McGills three floors 
into 3 quadruples and 2 doubles; the quads 
including a double and two single rooms. 
The idea of changing McGill into an apart
ment house would provide more singles, 
private bath facilities and safe cooking 
accommodations for 48 students. The price 
of such an apartment would be between 
$400 and $425.
These rooms will be renovated provided 
that the University approves the cost esti
mates calculated by the contractors hired. 
Currently there is apartment space for 60 
students in the Morewood and Woodlawn 
apartments.
The present occupants of the McGill 
dorm arent happy with the decision to
redo their home. They would like to re
main there next year because they felt 
McGill is the best and cheapest dorm for 
the money. Due to financial cost of the 
apartments, they will have to leave. They 
want to know what sort of priority they 
will be given in chosing a room elsewhere 
being that they have squatters rights.
Further possibilities on the housing 
scene include the possibility of making 
Henderson and the Morewood Apartments 
coed upon approval by WDC and MDC.
The rumor that one of the Morewood 
towers will go coed is false.
In order to give the fraternities more 
control of their houses, Dillon is working 
on a plan that will enable the fiats to lease 
their houses for 12 rather than 8 months a 
year. Both positive and negative reactions 
were given by the houses to this idea.
A uniform room rate is also being 
looked into with a base price of about 
$290.
Dillon stated that the enactment of 
these moves contained many ifs but he 
felt confident, there being little opposition 
from students, staff and faculty.
Housing officials are exploring the possibility of converting McGill Dorm into additional apartments
for campus residents. D. , , .y . . ,Photo by Nick. Lardas
Charges Droped 
Against Frat Members
Two weeks ago, Beta Sigma Rho frater
nity was raided and seven of the members 
were arrested on charges of possesion, sale 
and cultivation of marijuana. A hearing was 
set for last week and, concurrently, the 
university removed the fraternitys social 
privileges.
At that hearing, all charges were 
dropped against the seven C-MU students. 
Chief Magistrate Joseph Lafferty dismissed 
the charges before any evidence was pre
sented because he didnt want criminal 
charges on the records of our future doc
tors and engineers.
The arresting officers protested the de
cision and are planning to seek a new hear
ing. Whether the students can be rearrested 
on the same charges is in doubt, but it was 
remarked that the officers would use any 
excuse and every means possible to rearrest 
them.
University officials commented that the 
fraternity would continue to be on social 
probation, although an appeal was being 
read to modify the probation somewhat. 
Said Dean Swank, The thing to remember 
is that the University acted not as a result 
of the arrests, but as a direct result of the 
action of using University property for an 
illegal activity.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973
editors note
Everybody has the London flu:
Editorial wise, last week was a veritable goldmine of important news.
It began, really, with Richard Nixons inaugural ball, or balls, if you 
wish. Television coverage was entertaining in capturing the Presidents 
ebullience and enthusiasm at each of his ball appearances. At the youth 
ball, Jack Perkins of NBC said that hed never seen Richard Nixon so 
loose in public before. The President grinned and waved and tripped the 
light fantastic with Pat in public for the first time in his political career. 
Barbara Walters kissed Henry Kissinger on both cheeks for good luck and 
drew a round of applause from the Smithsonian ball crowd. He grinned. 
Vice President Agnew grinned and assured everyone that young people 
will have their own ball at future inaugurations, or, by implication, at least 
at his own inauguration in four years.
The tone of the evening was so positive that it was really no surprise 
when Richard Nixon spoke to us four nights later and somberly told us 
that the war was over. That we were pulling out. That Hanoi would release 
our prisoners. That Peace with honor had arrived. And Eric Severeid 
analyzed and analyzed. The real war was just beginning: President Thieu 
ordered everyone to display their flag, the Viet Cong prepared a final 
offensive-Politics, Politics, Politics-And there is no celebration in 
America. Church bells toll, people pause for moments of silence, but no 
one has a parade.  Instead, they listened to Henry Kissinger drone on the 
details of the peace on Wednesday morning. / sat in my office and 
listened, but couldnt keep my attention for longer than five minutes. / 
wonder what George would have done?
Meanwhile, back at the ranch so to speak, Lyndon Johnson had his 
final coronary. Poor Lyndon. He couldnt even get the kind of press he 
wanted at his own death. He was scooped by the ending of the same war 
that was his political death. And he had to die less than a month after 
Harry Truman. So the nation endures another live radio coverage of the 
funeral procession and Leontyne Price singing Onward Christian 
Soldiers  and another thirty days of the flag at half mast. _
At C-MU, the official announcement of a new provost was made at a 
downtown press conference aimed at national exposure. A TARTAN 
reporter fell asleep from boredom and the story made the New York 
Times in the same issue as the complete text of the Vietnam Peace 
Agreement. / feel a need to comment on the idea of provosts, but an 
inability to do so at this point. As Dean Steinberg has said, Its all in the 
execution. From all indications, Arnold Weber is a very fine person to 
have, but how much of a plus he will be depends on how well his abilities 
are macje use of.
The charges against seven members of Beta Sigma Rho were thrown 
out of court because the judge didnt want to jeopardize the careers of our 
future scientists and engineers. The administration, however, is not lifting 
social probation. / would say more, but / dont want to alienate the 
administration.
Perhaps the most relevant news these days is that everybody has the 
London Flu. Ive had it, the Entertainment editor has had it, the typists 
have had it, the basketball team has had it. The whole campus has the 
London Flu. Twenty-six people have died in Allegheny County alone. The 
Eastern seaboard has been hit with an epidemic. America is suffering.
Stephen Saunders
Editor in Chief .... Stephen Saunders
Business Manager...............Alice Bright
Special Editors.........................Mina Gerall
Jeff Ganek
Special Consultant >. . .Stephen Jurman
News Editor............................Gary Singer
Features Editor .... Shelley Burhans 
News and Features Staff . Gary Bronheim 
Craig Collins, Steven Correll 
Sharon Curcio, Brandon Oula 
Laurel Felix, Marc Field 
Anne Friedman, Greg Fulton 
Mike Hill, Chris Infante 
Thomas Lang, Joan McCluskey 
Robin Reiter, Debbie Siegel 
Ellen Steiber
Political Editor..........................Jim Slivka
Photography Editors .... Ed Levine
Elliot Arons
Photography Staff .... Henry Collins 
Ellen Eddy, Bruce Edelston 
Andrea Friedman, Carl Grefenstette 
Dan Goldstein, Greg Nickel 
John Shettel, Frank Stein 
Kevin Scott, Ric Werme
Entertainment Editor . . Stephen Hamm 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood
Nonie Dempsey, Arnie Karr 
Paula.Shubock, Hank Levy 
Steve Perkins, Susan Klein 
Winton Snyder, Jay Corpus 
Doug Stone
Sports Editor ...................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff.................................Dan Buis
Roger Geddes, David Girdany 
D.R. Sullivan
Political Cartoonist . . . . Jim Margulies
Layout..................................Erica Gees
Karla Salvi
Copy Staff ...........................Mina Gerall
Cyndy Schmidt
Published every Tuesday during the 
academic year at Carnegie-Mellon 
University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
15213. Editorial and Business offices in 
Skibo 50, Carnegie-Mellon University. 
Telephone (412) 682-4557
Letters:
Editor:
The CMU Students Gallery has lived a 
short, hard life. Only in its fourth year, the 
Gallery has withstood several directors, 
hundreds of artists, and countless visitors 
from all parts of the country. It has been 
threatened, eliminated, and reinstated. 
And, in spite of this wear and tear, it has 
attained and sustained a reputation as 
being a worthwhile place in Pittsburgh in 
which to view art.
At the present time, the administration 
has assured that the Students Gallery will 
be in existence next year. However, 
momentarily, I have my doubts. The fact 
wtill remains that the Gallery cannot keep 
its doors open if it does not have attend
ants inside to keep them open. Volunteer 
Gallery attendants are desperately needed.
Last October, shortly after the article 
Gallery May Close was printed in the 
TARTAN, petitions circulated and were 
signed by about 200 people, stating We, 
the students of CMU, demand that the 
CMU Students Gallery remain open next 
year!! However, all the demanding in the 
world isnt going to keep the Gallery open.
I am sickened when I think of all the 
people who have come to me requesting, 
and even demanding shows, but cant give 
any time to make sure their art work will 
be seen by the public. Of eighty some 
people who have exhibited in the Gallery 
this year, there are only seven who have 
volunteered to work for the Gallery this, 
semester. Two hundred people can demand 
that the Gallery stay open, but I cannot get 
twenty to give two hours of their week to 
see to it that does. Or forty people to give 
one hour.
Sor dont look to President Cyert to 
keep the Gallery open. Look among your
selves. You are the people who will keep 
the Gallery open.
Katie Morris
(Ed. note: Any one interested in helping the^ 
CMU students Gallery can leave their' 
name and phone number at the Skibo 
Information Desk.)
i) Editor:
Its with dismay that I regard the dis
persal of the $1 million grant. Certainly, 
half of it was donated with specific in
structions for its use by the University; 
however, the projected use of the remain
ing half, President Cyerts discretionary 
fund, is disconcerting.
Its not surprising that President Cyert 
wants to improve the University generally; 
what amazes me is that Fine Arts receives 
nothing. The College of Fine Arts generally 
suffers from lack of funds and Painting and
Sculpture particularly hurts. The depart
ments faculty has undergone salary cuts; 
the salaries to begin with were closer to a 
beginning public school teachers than a 
college professors, and its not certain that 
the Andrew Mellon Professorship, which 
provides funds for a visiting professor, will 
be awarded next year; there may not be 
money for it in the department. The over
alldeterioration of the College is regret
table. Fine Arts has been limping along for 
Several years with a static budget; money is 
poured into already fat colleges while 
CFA struggles to balance its pittance. It 
would be a serious mistake to allow the 
College to decay any more; it has a dis
tinguished history and a fine reputation. Its 
ability to attract students is without 
question. However, if recent degenerative 
inclinations continue, these assets to the 
University will be lost.
Cynthia Schmidt
Editor:
I was amused to read about the seven 
fraternity brothers busted at Beta Sigma 
Rho and President Cyerts hypocritical 
comments concerning existing laws. When 
was the last time a fraternity was Busted 
for serving alcoholic beverages to minors. I 
just cant understand why. those pot 
smoking fraternity members cant just get 
drunk and start acting like the rest of us 
law abiding, under age, beer drinking frat 
jocks.
Steven Rubinstein
Editor:
I am not certain that the article in the 
January 23 issue of the TARTAN under 
the headline Police Raid Frat made clear 
the Universitys position in imposing a 
sanction on Beta Sigma Rho as a fraternity 
existing on this campus. I think it is im
portant that all members of the campus 
community understand the Universitys 
basic position. The University has taken no 
disciplinary action directed against the 
seven men who were arrested. Their cases 
will be decided by the courts. It imposed 
social probation on an organization which 
permitted University facilities to be used 
for an activity which is clearly illegalthe 
growing of rftarijuana. The action was 
based on several principles.
1. The University has a great deal of 
autonomy in the development of educa
tional programs. There is, however, no pro
vision within the laws of the city, the state, 
or the nation, which grants the privilege of 
sanctuary to a University. Nor are laws 
enforced either more or less selectively 
than in the world outside the University.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, January 30, 1973Page 3
COMMENTARY
What Did You Do After The War, Henry?
by Craig Collins
Nixon ended the war, according to 
headlines.
U.S. outlined peace terms, according to 
headlines.
Makes one proud to be an American. 
Im proud to be an Okie from Musk
ogee . . . according to popular song.
Senator Henry Bellmon, a Republican 
from Oklahoma, sent a letter to the Nor
wegian Nobel Committee asking that group 
to consider Nixon for the Nobel Peace 
Prize. The Senator thus obtained two 
column-inches in the daily newspapers.
The same newspapers elsewhere 
mentioned the December bombings in one 
line and omitted the fact of the Cambodian 
invasion entirely. Hell, why not give him 
the Peace Prize. A fitting and ironic 
tribute. America is out of the war business, 
leaving Hanoi and Saigon the protective 
monopolies in that area. America will have 
its prisoners-of-war back in 60 days. No 
mention is made of (North or South) 
Vietnamese prisoners. America is allowed 
to retain its bases in Thailand. The Viet 
Cong may maintain their territorial hold
ings in the South. Everything works out 
nicely. Nixon ended the war, according to 
headlines.
The headlines that day said something 
unnoticed by those rejoicing in the end of 
the fighting. The first two inches on the 
front page of the January 24 edition of the 
Pittsburgh Press contained the all-encom
passing statement:
Stocks Down 14.07
Immediately below that: Nixon Ends 
Longest War.
Elsewhere on page 1: Market Tumbles 
Despite Peace. House Defeats Pay Hike 
Kill. LCB Rejects Price Increases. 
Stans, Mitchell Tied to Bugging.
All so clear are the implications. And 
still as agonizing are the motives forming 
Americas priorities.
$.
The economic effects of peace may be
2. The facilities of the University, 
whether under its direct control or under 
the control of a responsible group of its 
constituents, may not be used tor purposes 
clearly prohibited by law.
3. When clear violations of the law take 
place in such facilities, the University, 
regardless of whether action is threatened 
or taken by the law, has independent 
responsibility to impose sanction upon the 
group or organization to which it has 
granted responsbility.
4. Fraternities at Carnegie-Mellon 
University enjoy uSe and certain control of 
particular University facilities on the basis 
that they, as social organizations, accept 
responsibility for the activities of their 
members.
The University has, therefore, acted to 
impose a sanction on a social organization 
which clearly had knowledge that an illegal 
activity was taking place in facilities under 
control of the organization, and which 
failed, as an organization, to exercise its 
responsibilities to prevent that activity. Let 
me stress that no University action was 
taken against any individual.
The recent sanction imposed upon Beta 
Sigma Rho does not mean that this 
University will attempt to find every stu
dent who violates laws regarding marijuana 
or other drugs, including alcohol. It does 
mean, however, that Carnegie-Mellon 
University will not, itself, give to groups 
representing it the right to use University 
facilities in ways which violate the law.
Earle R. Swank 
Dean, Division of Student Affairs
staggering. Will the NNP continue to rise? 
A pressing question. And what of unem
ployment? Veterans will need jobs (or 
welfare payments) along with thousands of 
bomb manufacturers, B-52 assemblers, 
and napalm-producers.
Many other individuals will also begin to 
feel the strain of peace. Without a war to 
.negotiate, what will Henry Kissinger do? 
Build scale models of WWII Luftwaffe air
craft? Hardly an amusement for such .a 
prominent figure. Jane Fonda might find 
her career as a disc-jockey for Radio Hanoi 
short-lived now that peace is at hand. O^ 
course, shell be able to divert her attention 
to womens rights, American Indians, and 
Senate investigations. Daniel Ellsbergs. 
actions may have been for naught, now 
that the war is over. Of as much historical
interest as the proverbial last American 
killed in Vietnam will be Ellsbergs prison 
term (if convicted) as the information leak 
which helped the North Vietnamese not 
win the war.
Other ramifications:
No more semi-likenesses of President 
Thieu drawn by political cartoonists to 
appear in daily newspapers.
No more undeclared income from the 
sale of Vietnamese dope by American 
importers.
Hubert Humphrey will no longer be able 
to continue to support the Presidents war 
policy.
George McGovern will no longer be able
No more Vietnamese troops to be enter 
tained by Republican comedians, 
to admit the Presidents war policy to be
rksi ftFN CftN.T ^ 
COMMENTARY
Photo by Ed Levine
D.C. Peace March: An Old Story
by Shelley Burhans
It is not one action that will end the 
war but tens and hundreds of actions 
repeated over and over until the sheer 
weight of our organizing finally brings a 
halt to the killing.
Irma Zigas
Chairwoman-War Resisters League 
-from newsletter of 1/15/73
The morning was neutral as eighty Pitts
burghers waited in an Oakland parking lot, 
in a five-thirtyish dark where similarly in
clined groups waited from Michigan to 
Connecticut. A light snow fell, the cold 
became piercing, and the buses were late, 
but the group was briskly eager and 
verbose. The backgrounds of the riders 
were diverse: two avowed Communists, 
members of the Quaker group that had 
chartered the buses, a few professors, even 
fewer students, an elderly farmer and his 
wife, a gay woman of perhaps forty with a 
girl of perhaps fifteen, a lone black who sat
alone on the first bus. Their reason con
verged at the point of weariness with a 
government responsible for their digestion 
of newspaper and magazine nauseatingly 
full of war and human depravity. 
Comments on the war were few, though 
personality, philosophy and peace tactics 
were offered generously.
The girl of the Communist couple railed 
against the SDSers and their hopeless 
violences expounding Marxism and non
violence vehemently. Her boyfriend, shy in 
his delivery, used the dimly lit rear of the 
bus as a confessional. I used to be a 
Maoist, I mean, I thought that was the 
way ... but Ive been disillusioned. Now 
Im a Communist, yknow; its the only fair 
way. They entered into discussion of how 
much he paid for clothes, she alternately 
assuring him that a particular price was 
alright because the item would last and 
lauding his fragility in certain abstentions: 
defending his defenses of expenses, in
a step in the right direction, but . .. 
Richard Nixon will no longer be able to 
break promises of forthcoming peace for 
mankind, now that Nixon has already 
ended the war.
What can all these people do with them
selves now? The situation looks bleak. 
Their most likely activity will most likely 
be a return to economics, because a 
healthy dollar is a curing dollar. According 
to economists.
TIME: April, 1973, or thereabouts. 
SCENE: White House. Richard Nixon, 
feeling a great burden lifted from him (now 
that the Vietnam conflict is over), dons a 
chefs hat and begins to clown. He pretends 
to act out the role of restauranteur With 
a chuckle, he scribbles on a piece of paper 
and props it up beside the water pitcher on 
his desk. The sign reads Foreign Ade.
Enter PRESIDENT THIEU: Good 
evening Richard. Have you a table for six 
million, somewhere in the back?
NIXON: Certainly. Follow me.
Nixon picks up six million menus and 
starts toward the rear of his imaginary 
restaurant. Everyone is now seated. Nixon 
approaches Thieu.
NIXON: Cocktails?
THIEU: No thank you. What do you 
suggest for a main course?
NIXON: Our Goodwill Special is tasty 
this time of year. A hefty meal for the 
whole family.
THIEU: Sounds good. Ill order for all 
of us, and well select that.
NIXON: (Calls in the direction of 
Congress) Hey Carl, two billion 
dollars ... to go!
| TIME: February, 1976.
SCENE: Richard Nixon, sitting in his 
San Clemente study, begins to fantasize 
about becoming a stand-up comedian. He 
gets up and starts to practice his laugh
before the mirror. Pat walks in.
DICK: Didnt I tell you not to disturb 
me while Im alone in the study?
PAT: (apologetic) I just thought of a 
joke you might use during your Las Vegas 
stand. 1 made it up.
DICK: What is it.
PAT: Well it goes like this. One day in 
the fall of 1972 Henry Kissinger was 
strolling along a Paris street thinking about 
peace. If only I could get Thieu to sign 
this damned thing, he thought to himself. 
Then, suddenly an idea came to him. Ill 
announce to the world that Washington 
and Hanoi have come to a peace agree
ment. Then, after nothing comes of it, the 
world will blame Thieu for the hold-up and 
make him look bad. And rather than have 
his image maligned as being the hold-out, 
Thieu will come around and sign the agreementwand well have peace. So Henry did 
exactly what he had to do, and the 
situation developed exactly the way he had 
predicted it would. Thieu abstained for a 
while, then signed the agreement, and then, 
there was peace.
DICK: So?
PAT: The moral is: Peace-is-at-hand is 
worth Thieu in the bush. 
DICK: Didnt I tell you not to disturb 
me while Im alone in the study?
TIME: Wednesday, January 24, 1973. 
Eight pjn. or thereabouts.
SCENE: C-MU, a peaceful little college 
in the foothills of Pennsylvania.
CRAIG: Wanna read the paper?
BOB: Id like to see the sports.
Nixon ended the war, according to 
headlines.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973
general. They were twentyish.
A socialist professor, with an affected 
British accent, bent the ear of his partner 
in a one sided discussion of he arrest of a 
criminal; they decided that it had been 
clearly, a proper arrest. A quiet student, 
curious about the ideas of the couple in 
front of him, leaned forward to ask his 
hesitant question. Dont you think 
Marxian theory . .. ? He was sharply 
routed in his questioning by the girl. Have 
you read any Marx? Well, we read some 
chapters on it ... We just heard a lecture 
on the growth of socialism in Cuba ... 
Who gave it? Who wrote the analysis of 
Marxs theory that you read? .. . You 
always have to ask whos telling you. You 
have to ... You must ... she proclaimed 
with sharp-eyed concern for his academic 
welfare and the impact her words would 
have - on the surrounding audience. Her 
companion mutely and steadily nodded 
what was either approval or premature 
acknowledgement of thedialoguestext.
Many slept as the bus cut through the 
overcast morning; a man of about thirty sat 
meditatively alone; the young girl whined 
that the trip was taking too long; the black 
sat dignifiedly separate and awake. The 
farmer whiffed past my companion and me 
with a musk-acrid smell, to the back of the 
bus.
We rolled into Washington and the view 
of an army of buses across the river. All 
vehicles were police tactically routed in 
scores of circles until finally parking. There 
were hundreds of buses lining drives and 
lots that held thousands of cars... enough 
to carry over 100,000 people. As we 
circled the Jefferson Memorial for the 
tenth time, riders proclaimed their 
eagerness to get out. Said one man, We 
have to wait till we get to the other side, 
and another, We may already be on the 
other side.
We skirted the perimeter of the Basin on 
foot, the long way around, to the Lincoln 
Memorial, a kind of nucleus to the 
gathering marchers. Gray skies did not 
match the gentle enthusiasm of the 
generally quiet protesters.
Having gone more for vague purposes of 
observing, and of learning ... something, 
and being leery of loud noises in the stead 
of firm and quietly determined action, I 
was apprehensive about the nature of and 
end to the demonstration. Resting in my 
mind was the sad but valid equation of 
mass protest with violence, conflicting and 
overriding misdirected motives, and relative 
ineffectuality.
I am obligated, at this point in my 
relation of the day, to iden* y my personal 
contention that politics itself before the
Photo by S. Burhans
subsequent aspects of campaigning, 
voting. . . demonstrating, is the individual 
acting in awareness of and concerned 
commitment to his own social and personal 
situation and surrounding. It involves his 
maintaining the strength to instigate 
change where necessary, and observing the 
intelligence.. . much as one observes the 
laws of his religion ... to refrain from im
posing superfluous boundaries on ability or 
responsibility. It appears to my inadequate 
eye, above all, that politics does not 
involve the selfish and socially detrimental 
concern with superfluous issues. (I used to 
think that I was apolitical, being too 
unsure to claim a party or claim to under
stand the actual workings of American 
government... until the year I spent at a 
socially dead and academically dying 
college, when I noticed that student con
cern and what little activism there was was 
devoted to extending parietal hours. I was 
enraged...)
The question of group and individual 
conscience for the Vietnam war has always 
presented itself to me as an enigma of a 
particular, as well as general, nature: War, 
cornerstone of history that it is, represents 
perhaps the ultimate human capacity for 
hatred of life, gutlessness, irresponsibility 
and frivolity... the latter two qualities 
respectively denoting characteristics of 
those opposed who will not act on it, and 
those involved whose actions lack the 
modification of intelligence. Domestic
problems are magnitudinal to the point of 
being crises, one of these involving the 
apathy that exists at all levels of American 
society . .. and institutions. How can 
human beings unwilling to accept the 
responsibility of at least empathy, if not 
constructive action for the problems faced 
within their society and individual 
lives... claim conscience for something 
going on a world away?
The groups at the march were marked 
with variety: Womens lib, Veterans for 
Peace, War Resisters League, SDS, Labor 
groups, children, gays, academics 
(grouped as such in the march: high school 
students, college students, teachers and 
professors and secretaries). The crowds 
composition was by no means solely 
youthful; businessmen, scientists, house
wives, doctors, lawyers and doctorates 
abounded. The aging and the pubescent 
brought their concern and flavor, 
collectively and individually, to the march 
that complimented that other parade of 
inauguration day. As we walked up from 
the Basin, an elderly nun, still habited, sat 
poised on the edge of a park bench. The 
crowd milled, seemingly undirected except 
for small clusters of people. Some sang,
some chanted, some played, many walked 
with us (most of them better photo
graphers, a fact which further encouraged 
me to watch the watchers), stepping over 
forms huddled in sleeping bags who had 
chosen for their protest a night long vigil.
Labor organizations protested and mar
shalled at once in the bitter wind from 
their stand on the Lincoln Memorial; mem
bers of the War Resisters League on the 
avenue below mobilized the group into an 
orderly march within an hour. Skimming 
the route to get ahead of things, poor 
photographer that 1 am, the words of one 
man caught up with me as he moved down 
from his listening post in front of the 
memorial, where megaphones had given 
way to the speech-making of a few self
selected individuals. Thats just bullshit, 
up there. Lets move down. The crowd 
was already dispersed, for the most part, 
and grouped on the avenue below.
Children headed the march, proceeding 
quietly, with a tacit force. Sideline 
speakers chanted, Sign the treaty; end the 
war; another few self-select individuals 
among the thousands screamed obscenities 
with a tension of lust for excitement, 
physical confrontation . . .violence. 
Military police waited on the other side of 
the avenue, down side streets and around
skirted and with her best showwomans 
style and smile, MCed the first part of the 
program. Songs were few, feelings were 
high and the speakers of as diverse back
grounds and interests as are imaginable .
. save for the one involvement with a 
country involved in a war both ghastly and 
literally ridiculous at once, plodding 
politically ineffectually through rice 
paddies and the remains of undernourished 
bodies and aborted lives, receding further 
from practise with effectiveness in dealing 
with its own varied and expanding pro
blems.
I had feared that the demonstration 
would follow the convention established 
by a decade, that of song, scream and sar
casm, and that attendant groups would 
hold their particular group interest as prior, 
thus reducing the potential of social 
coalescence for a unified and unifying end; 
a fear flagged by the sight of petitions. As 
we listened to the speakers and singers at 
the mikes-Pete Seeger, Juan Gonzales, 
Phillip Berrigan, and government, Womens 
Lib, WRL, Black, Indian, labor and 
ecumenical representatives-it came to me 
that the girl who had first approached me 
with a petition had simply handed it to me, 
explained its content and quietly allowed a 
thorough review of its proposal...
meg
Children headed the peace march
corners with use of military strategy under
estimated by many of the peaceful among 
the protesters. Six park police watched the 
march from black horses at the roadside 
proper. An occasional ambulance screamed 
down the ambulance lane, and uniformed 
officers stamped the cold out of their 
boots beside unobtrusive lorrys packed 
with well-armed troops.
Abortion petitions were passed, as were 
labor petitions, welfare petitions, womens 
rights petitions ... Comments sang in the 
cold. King Richard must be crowned by 
now. I want to march with the kids. 
Lets move it, man! The march moved, 
effectively ordered and marshalled, with its 
most salient feature being, perhaps, the 
death march.
Arrayed as though from horror film 
costume closets, 40-50 black-robed, white 
skulled figures formed a silent and per
fectly ordered procession, their leader 
hoodless and holding aloft a wooden cross. 
Indeed, sideline marching was made 
difficult with the clusters of network 
camera crews accompanying the spectacle. 
Some swore mildewed oaths on ancient 
bibles that day; some swore silently, 
regardless of age and the rank shallow 
safety of convention.
The marchers amassed before speakers 
platforms at the base of the Washington 
Monument. Dinah Shore, stockinged and
Photo by S. Burhans
Photo by Ed Levine 
One interpretation of the inauguration.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, January 30, 1973 Page 5
dispassionately accepting my refusal to 
sign. And in much the same way that 
passion floods, overwhelms and, un
checked, arrives at the point of reasons 
negation, so had this war invaded, battered 
almost out of existance our human pur
poses and usurped the priorities of national 
difficulties-until its descrying had become 
hoarse, its exploitation as excuse for a 
multitude of irresponsibilities become 
hackneyed, worn to the point of being 
obvious, and intelligent concern been re
newed by the unrelenting presence of un
mitigated domestic problems.
The speakers each outlined the concern 
and the problems of their respective causes, 
the majority logically weaving the issues, 
on the loom of the war, into 
distinguishable threads of a nations 
demand for its own concern and energy. 
Concerns were not voiced in the formerly 
common manner: The poor women! 
The poor blacks! The poor world! 
The poor poor! How immoral is this 
war! How immoral is killing! How sad 
is the spectacle of bloodied bodies in a 
ditch! Things were more on the order of 
Life is worth living. War is death to lives. 
This war must be ended, and, To live is 
to accept the responsibility for the main
tenance of unity necessary to live. The 
people you deal with are an integral part of. 
humanity. You must accept the responsi
bility for the people you deal with.
The deliveries were received by a crowd 
whose tenor was one of sincerity, concern, 
and personal and group commitment. The 
day did ndt presume to be one of judg
ment. Ankle deep in freezing mud, and 
itoulders huddled, the right one to the 
left, the conversation of the crowds indivi
duals appeared to deal little with specious 
scholastic criticism or puerile personal put 
down. Few froze out there for the sake of 
being hip.
A few adventure seekers played with 
spray paint at the base of the Washington 
Monument. The pre-occupied protesters 
were alerted to this as a parade of blackridered horses loped, with organized 
tension, up the hillside. People around me 
directed their prayers for peace to the 
immediate and general tension. Falling into 
line between the cement pinnacle and the 
playgoers, the police stood firm, for the 
most part calm. even in the face of 
mouthed orders to physiological im
possibilities accompanied by dmonstrative 
gestures.
The tone of the crowd was visibly 
evident when two human chains, the 
breadth of the entire hillside, were formed 
in less than a minute to prevent confron
tation. A boy of about fifteen, who had 
run down the hill at the sight of the horses, 
responded to the question of what was 
going on with, Man, I dont know.
Theyre just chasing everybody out of 
there. I had a feeling that he didnt know 
that the scene he had taken part in with 
youthful enthusiasm was staged by devoted 
students of violence, and that he, in the 
words of another individual, could have 
been killed.
As it was, the horsemen firmly 
pressured the group down towards the 
stands, but only once did a horse break 
into gallop graced with the beat of a billy 
club in the hand of his rider. The rider 
reined in within a moment, and the troops 
stood silent vigil in the cold until the 
demonstration was over.
The chilled crowd, a good majority of 
whom had waited to the 5:00 end, dis
persed to entangle cars and buses from the 
knots of parked vehicles.
One of the warmer moments of my day 
was the discovery that two bona fide photo
graphers from the TARTAN were at the 
demonstration, cameras in hand. One of 
the more regretful was that 1 had run out 
of film before the last few minutes of the
Before the peace march: waiting at the Lincoln Memorial.Photo by Ed Levine
"Marshalls" organized the march within an hour.Photos by S. Burhans
demonstration, during which my attention 
was centered on a single figure in the 
crowd. An elderly woman, almost totally 
wrapped in a blanket of army heat-foil, 
clutched the branch of a lone tree not 
much taller than her sparse frame. Her feet 
were buried up to her stockinged ankles in 
the crisp mud; all that showed of her head 
rested in a pair of eyes fixed firmly in the 
direction of the speakers stands, and a cap 
lettered on the side with VETERANS FOR 
PEACE, placed firm against the wind.
The government figure for the number 
of demonstrators was 30,000, publicized 
simultaneously with the figure of 35,000 
for those attending the inauguration. James 
Doyle of the Washington Daily News called 
the inauguration a ceremony symbolizing 
almost 200 years of peaceful government 
transition. Enigma balloons again as I 
approach the questions: How does the 
media manage to convey the impression of 
campaigns as microcosmic wars during the 
elections of this peaceful government? 
How might this government of peace have 
faked a war of Vietnams duration? How,
in this peaceful government, are issues 
debated and arguments dealt with and re
solved? How does the government of a 
people tom and truth hungry manage to 
maintain its peacefulness, or to claim much 
meaningful transition at all?
The January 20th that passed in 
Washington this year was quiet, virtually 
unmarked by exciting or inciting incident. 
The unobservant and the casual adventurer 
might have thought it dull. It left me with 
a sense of life, and a sense that this demon
stration had evidenced that to at least some 
degree, the polarizing forces of apathy and 
passion had converged ... somewhere, and 
are focused in a negative that is as positive 
as the picture of the old woman.
The most tangible accomplishment of 
that day appears to me to be dedications 
quiet victory over the few passion-ridden 
and adventure-seekers who had for a de
cade managed to mutilate the dreams and 
undermine the effectiveness of a multitude 
of peace marchers, twisting the countrys 
interpretation of their demonstration of 
concern.
As 1 write this, I am informed that a 
good lead has just come in ... maybe itll 
make a good feature article, yknow? If 
i you can find someone who can do a good 
job on it ... the war is over.
1 cant find anyone who can cover it. 
Anywhere. Ill have to impinge on the news 
editors territory and pinch newspaper 
ethics to release the unofficial news that 
none of us has an excuse any longer not to 
see whats wrong, to think constructively, 
and to act accordingly. Where we stand. As 
far and as long and as well as we can.
A hypothetical situation to think about 
might concern one of the better-equipped 
universities in this nation with a relatively 
small student body and its share of internal 
injustices given and received ... a good 
majority of whose students remain mute, 
often incredibly ignorant of where they 
are, even more often in the face of pro
blems which affect them as individuals. ..
Oh, dears. Another little enigma; Im 
not sure its correct to modify student 
with mute__
(Note: Many thanks to Henry Collins for 
lending and showing me how to use a 
camera on my way out the door; to Ed 
Levine and Vicky Stein for being there; 
and to you, for having the patience to read 
this far.)
ATTIC SALE: Toys galore: a large selection of 
B-52's used only once at Christmas; one well-worn 
Henry Kissinger, machine guns, rifles, bayonets, 
napalm, Nam, Tiger cages. Now, home of RMN 
Washington, D.C. "Ask not what you can do fc 
your gov't.; ask, rather, what your gov't, can do t 
you."

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973
CARNEGIE -MELLON UNIVERSITY MUSIC DEPARTMENT 
STUDENT RECITAL SCHEDULE - SPRING 1973
Feb. 8,1973
Feb 10, 1973
Feb.11,1973
Feb. 16, 1973
Feb.17,1973
Feb. 18, 1973
Feb. 18, 1973
Feb. 25, 1973
Feb.25,1973
March 3, 1972
March 4,1973
Herbert J. McDowell II 8:30 p.m.
Trumpet Recital
Exhibition Hall, Carnegie Mellon
Margaret Stewart 4:30 p.m.
Voice Recital
Exhibition Hall, Carnegie Mellon
Brass Choir 8:30 p.m.
Philip Catelinet, Conductor 
Exhibition Hall, Carnegie Mellon
James A. Clair 8:30 p.m.
Viola Recital
Exhibition Hall, Carnegie Mellon
Lynn Beckstrom 8:30 p.m.
Voice Recital
Exhibition Hall, Carnegie Mellon
Alan Teare 3:00 p.m.
Percussion Recital
Exhibition Hall, Carnegie Mellon
Piano Recital 8:30 p.m.
Shirley Bishop, Amy Kogan, Robert Wilson 
Exhibition Hall, Carnegie Mellon
Organ Recital 4:00 p.m.
Kenneth McGeary and Walter Koehler 
Calvary Church
Woodwind Ensemble 8:30 p.m.
Arthur Kubey, Conductor 
Exhibition Hall, Carnegie Mellon
Charles Swope 3:30 p.m.
Trombone Recital
Exhibition Hall, Carnegie Mellon
Noreen McLellan 4:oo p.m.
Organ Recital
Calvary Church_________________________
ftt&ccAe 
<uet/fout be
Take it from one with a man-sized 
yen, men. When a *Big Man on Campus 
gets a big thirst, it takes a big drink to 
satiate it. And nothing, I repeat nothing, 
titillates the tonsils and taunts a thirst 
like Akadama Red, Fred.
Akadama Red
The toast of the campus.
imported by Suntory international. Los Angeles. Calif
THE ACTIVITIES BOARD PRESENTS 
THE BLACK PIRATE
....A silent film starring Douglass Fairbanks, Sr.
There will be live piano accompaniment.
Feb. 2-8 p.m. Skibo 50$ with AB Card
Business Meeting For 
Student Organizations
All organizations receiving funds from 
Student Senate: Please send your business 
manager with correct books concerning aH 
expenditure and incomes made since the 
fall 72 semester to the present date. If 
your organization is not present at the 
audit, all your funds are subject to being 
frozen for the rest of the semester. A
January 29 Monday 6:30  9:30 
6:30 Film Workshop 
5:45 Chess 
7:00 Technical 
7:15 Cheerleaders 
7:30 Hockey 
7:45 Philosophy 
8:00 Spirit 
8:15 Two Hands 
8:30 Student Gallery 
8:45 Faculty Course 
9:00 Commuter
balance sheet should be drawn up to 
represent a summary of expenditures and 
income. For details see the TARTAN 
(January 16, 1973). The meeting will be 
held in Room 11 Skibo Student Activities 
Center. See below for the time your 
organization should be present.
9:15 MDC 
9:30 Tartan
February 1 Thursday 7:00  9:30
7:00 Peer Help
7:15 SIMS
7:30 Fencing
7:45 PIRG
8:00 Rifle & Pistol
8:15 W3NKI
8:30 Activities Board
9:00 WRCT
Aliens to Report Addresses
' Every alien must report his address 
during January of each year! Every alien 
who is in the United States on the first day 
of January of each year shall, within 30 
days following such date, report his address 
to the Commissioner, Immigration and 
Naturalization Service, and shall furnish 
such additional information as may be 
required by regulations. Any alien who is 
temporarily absent from the United States 
during the reporting period shall report his 
address within 10 days after his return to 
the United States.
To report, 1) Go to any United States 
Post Office or Immigration and 
Naturalization Office; 2) Ask for the Alien 
Address Report Card (Form 1-35); 3) 
Complete all the items; 4) Hand the card to 
any post office clerk or mail it to the 
nearest office of the Immigration and 
Naturalization Service. Any alien who 
willfully or inexcusably fails to report as 
required is liable to be taken into custody 
and deported. In addition, imprisonment 
or fines may be levied before deportation.
E PERFORM
AN OPERA FILM CLASSIC 
The Salzburg Festival Production 
of Mozart's
Wednesday, January 31 
1:00 and 8:00 PM 
Heinz Hall
With Metropolitan Opera star 
Cesare Siepi as Don Giovanni,
Lisa Della Casa, Elisabeth Grummer, 
Otto Edelmann, Anton Dermoto, 
Erna Berger, Walter Berry and 
Deszo Ernster. The Vienna Philhar
monic Orchestra is conducted by 
Wilhelm Furtwngler.
Matinee: $2.50 
Evening: $3.00
at Heinz Hall Box Office 
Gimbels, Horne's, 
Kaufmann's and 
National Record Marts.
50c discount to students 
at Heinz Hall Box Office.
HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS HEINZ HALL FOR THE PERFO
EARLY BIRD SPECIAL
- DAILY -
In The Kiltie Coffee House and Thistle Room 
(Special Luncheon Of The Day)
REDUCED TO 85*
FROM 11:30-11:50

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973Page 7Announcements:
Dig in Italy next summer. Program in Art
History and Classical Field Archeology for 
credits (8) Live in a castle near Siena. 
Time: July 1st to 31st. For more inform
ation contact Bill Kuchler at the Depart
ment of Painting and Sculpture.
The American Chemical Society Student
Affiliates are proud to present Dr. Egon 
Matijevic of Clarkson College who will 
speak on "Colloids and Surface Chem
istry, Tuesday, January 30, 8:00 p.m., 
SCH 7500. Refreshments will be served.
The Carnegie-Mellon University
College/Community Orchestra will present 
a free concert in Carnegie Music Hall, 
Sunday February 4, at 8:30 p.m. The 
concert is the second in a series of four and 
the public is invited. Conducting will be 
Chauncey Kelley, assistant head and 
associate professor of music. Professor 
Ketley will lead the orchestra through four 
major pieces by prominent composers: 
Schumann's ''Symphony No. 4 in D Minor 
Op. 120; Brahm's "Academic Festival 
Overture Op. 80"; Sibelius' "Swan of 
Tuolea Op. 22 No. 3; and Dukas' "The 
Sorcerer's Apprentice". Hollis Bertoluzzi, a 
student at CMU, will guest solo on the 
English horn in the work by Sibeliulius.
A number of term papers for Statistical
Methods, I (36-751) were removed from a 
carton in an 8th floor corridor of Science 
Hall over the semester break. In most cases, 
the authors do not have copies of their 
papers and can't easily reconstruct them. 
These students need their papers for con-# 
tinuing projects in the second semester of 
the course. If you have access to any of 
these papers, please return them (or at least 
copies of them) to the Statistics Depart
ment (ext.687).
A free one hour program of shorts and
experimental films will be presented on 
Wednesday, January 31 at 7:30 p.m. in the 
Wherrett Room, by the Film Workshop, as 
an introduction to its new schedule of 
biweekly meetings. The films shown will 
include: "N.Y., N.Y.", "An Occurrence at 
Owl Creek Bridge", "Urbanissimo" and 
others.
Applications for summer undergraduate
counselors for the pre-college program are 
available in the Office of Student Affairs, 
second floor of Warner Hall. Please do not 
apply unless you can be on campus from 
8:30 a.m. Saturday, June 23, 1973 until 12 
noon on Saturday, August 4, 1973.
Interviews will close March 2 and 
counselors will be announced by March 16, 
1973.
Works by Haydn, Beethoven and Chopin
will highlight a piano recital by Yee-ha 
Chieu in the third concert in this year's 
Carnegie-Mellon Concert series on Wednes
day, January 31. Miss Chieu will perform 
in the Carnegie Lecture Hall, Oakland, at 
8:30 p.m. The concert is free and open to 
the public. The theme for this year's Series 
is "The Great Piano Literature". On Miss 
Chieu's program are: "Fantasie in C Major" 
by Haydn; "Sonata in E Major, Op. 109" 
by Beethoven; "Sonata No. 3, Op.28" by 
Prokofiev; "Fantaise et Fugue" by Hsu 
Tsang-houie; "Two Mazurkas and "Fantasie in F Minor, Op. 48 by Chopin; 
and "L'lsle Joyeuse by Debussy.
Help make Israel Day at CMU a success.
Come to the planning meeting in the con
ference room (old Bureau of Placements) 
in the basement of Skibo, Tuesday, 
February 6 at 3 p.m. If you can't make it 
but are interested call the Hillel office, 
621-8875.
Financial Aid Application Deadlines for
Academic Year 1973-74. Students who 
wish to apply for financial aid in the Aca
demic year 1973-74 are reminded that the 
Parents' Confidential Statement must be 
completed and sent to College Scholarship 
Service by February 15, 1973. The Student 
Application is due in the Financial Aid 
Office by March 15.
The above forms were mailed to under
graduates who currently receive aid. 
However, if you are a financial aid recipi
ent and did not receive these forms, please 
come to the Financial Aid Office,' 215 
Warner Hall, for both the Parents' Con
fidential Statement and the Student 
Application. Students who are applying aid 
for the first time whould obtain these same 
two forms.
Saturdays on WRCT (900 AM). The Rock
Years: 1962-1972." Each week, Marius 
Misiunas explores the music of one of these 
memorable years from 12 to 2 p.m. "Didja 
Hear The One About" with Mitch Green
berg. A study of literary and comic genius. 
(5 to 6 p.m.) "The Fourth Tower of Inver
ness." The ultimate radio melodrama with 
host George Bias. Follow this 13 week 
serial as each installment takes you further 
into this un-World of anti-reality. End your 
Saturday night in style. (12 to 2 a.m. 
Sunday morning.) Saturdays on WRCT: 
more than a day's programming. Actually, 
"Radioactivity An Experiment in College 
Broadcasting.
Works by Haydn, Beethoven and Chopin
will highlight a piano recital by Yee-ha 
Chieu in the third concert in this years 
Carnegie-Mellon Concert series on Wednes
day, January 31. Miss Chieu will perform 
in the Carnegie Lecture Hall, Oakland,-at 
8:30 p.m. The concert is free and open to 
the public. The theme for this year's Series 
is "The Great Piano Literature". On Miss 
Chieu's program are: "Fantasie in C Major" 
by Haydn; "Sonata in E Major, Op. 109" 
by Beethoven; "Sonata No. 3, Op.28" by 
Prokofiev;- "Fantaise et Fugue" by Hsu 
Tsang-houie; "Two Mazurkas" and "Fan
tasie in F Minor, Op. 48" by Chopin; and 
"L'lsle Joyeuse" by Debussy.
The Y-IKC will offer an Isreali and
Mediterannean Cooking course taught by 
Lili Sharir, an Israeli now living in Pitts
burgh. The four consecutive Monday 
evening sessions starting February 5 at the 
Oakland Y-IKC at 8 p.m, will cover hors 
d'oeuvres; salads; side dishes and main 
dishes. These will represent the newly 
emerging Israeli cuisine as well as other 
popular ethnic djshes of the Meditera
nnean. For information and registration, 
call or write the Adult Department, Y-l KC, 
315 S. Beliefield Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa 
15213, 621-6500. Fees are $20 for 
members and $30 for non-members. All 
dishes made in compliance with dietary 
laws.
There will be a meeting for all prospective
track and field candidates on Wednesday, 
January 31, at 4:45, in the basement of 
Donner Hall. Anyone interested should be 
at this meeting.
The free gynecologist program for CMU
students is in full operation and will be 
until May 1, 1973. Contact Peer Help, 
Skibo Information desk or Health Service 
for information.
Silva Mind Control Course on campus.
February 5-6-7-8, February 19-20-21-22-23 
Introductory lecture, February 1, 7:30 
p.m. Hunt Library, Multipurpose Room. 
$3.00, students $1.50.
Will the student who used my library card
to withdraw 7 expensive books from 
Duquesne University Library in November, 
1972, please return the books to D.U. 
Library or contact me at 434-6550.
B'nai B'rith Hillel will hold an Ice Skating
Party Saturday night, Feb. 3 at Alpine Ice 
Chalet. Buses will leave from the Y-IKC, 
315 S. Belief ield at 9:45 p.m. Cost for the 
evening is $1.50 plus .50 to rent skates. 
This event is open to all students in the 
area colleges.
A Family Planning Panel will be held
Sunday, February 4 at 8:00 p.m. in the 
Student Union Ballroom, University of 
Pittsburgh. The panel will discuss birth 
control, abortion, fertility termination, etc. 
A question and answer session will follow; 
Members of the panel are: Dr. RicharcJ, 
Finegold, Dr. Leonard Laufe, Dr. Norman 
Kresh, Dr. Hazel Samilowitz, Rabbi Phillip 
Sigal, and Mr. A. Stanley Winikoff. The 
program is open to the community and 
admission is free.
A B'nai B'rith Hillel Faculty Student
Sabbath will be held Friday, February 2, at 
Skibo Hall, CMU. Worship services will 
begin at 6:30 p.m. in the Chapel, Room 39 
Skibo. Dinner will follow at 7:15 in the 
Faculty Dining Room. Speakers for the 
evening will be Dr. Harold Burstyn of 
History and his wife, Dr. Joan Burstyn of 
Psychology and Education. They will 
discuss "What Are We Doing Here? 
Thoughts on Life, Immortality, etc." Cost 
is $2.00. Call 621-8875 for reservations by 
Wednesday.
All those interested in participating in
track and field this spring should attend 
the organizational meeting on January 31 
at 4:45 p.m. in the Donner Hall locker 
rooms (in the basement of Donner Hall, 
just opposite the football field). Whatever 
you can do, sprinting, distance running, 
jumping, or weight events, we can use your 
talents. (We are also looking for managers.) 
Come join a consistently winning sport at 
CMU.
All those who submitted pictures for the
TARTAN Photo Contest may pick them 
up in Room 50 Skjbo the week of January 
29. Questions, call 682-4557.
B'nai B'rith Hillel now has Office space in
Room 54 Skibo. Office hours are Wednes
day, 1 to 3 p.m., or by appointment. Call 
621-8875 or just drop in.
"The Great Piano Literature" - a recital by
Chiu on Wednesday, January 31, 8:30 p.m. 
at Carnegie Lecture Hall. Free.
A Service of Repentance and Thanks in
Response to the Cease Fire in Vietnam. 
Sponsored by the CMU Chaplains' 
Association. Thursday, Feb. 1, 1972 at 12 
noon in Skibo Lobby. "This is an oppor
tunity for all of us in the CMU campus 
community to come together to share our 
common sorrow and repentance over our 
involvement in the war in Vietnam, and a 
chance for us to share our common hope 
for the possibility of peace.
Extended hours for tax assistance by
Internal Revenue Service. The schedule of 
the Pittsburgh office, beginning Tuesday, 
January 2, 1973 is as follows:
Pittsburgh IRS Office, 1000 Liberty
Avenue, Room 123 
Phone: 644-5755
Tues. Wed. Fri. 8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. 
Mondays - Thursdays 8:30 a.m. to 7:00 
p.m.
Saturdays 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m.
Anyone who has found a missing 6 inch
Pickett (yellow) tan slide rule in black case, 
Please call 682-4105. Your heroism will be 
rewarded.
Beginning Monday, January 22, 1973 the
"EARLY BIRD SPECIAL" and the
"REGULAR LUNCHEON SPECIAL" to 
be offered in both the Kiltie Coffee House 
and the Thistle Room. The "EARLY BIRD 
SPECIAL" will be served from 11:30 to 
11:50 a.m. for 85 cents. This will include a 
Main Entree, as designated, a Vegetable or 
Salad and Beverage or the Lo Cal Salad 
Plate, Roll and Butter and Beverage. The 
"REGULAR LUNCHEON SPECIAL" will 
be offered then from 11:50 to 2 p.m. for 
95 cents. This will include a Main Entree, 
as designated, a Vegetable or Salad and 
Beverage or the Lo Cal Salad Plate, Roll 
and Butter and Beverage.
PERSONALS
Dearest Eddie: I wouldn't kick you out of
bed. G. Garbo.
Classified Ads
Russia for sale! Educational Holiday  4
days Moscow3days Leningrad. First class 
with bath, all meals, sightseeing, and trans
fers, including Ballet or Circus each city. 
$399, plus 10% for visas, taxes and service.
Departure date March 24, 1973. Call Ms. 
Zhivago at 391-4499 or write Scandinavian 
Airlines, 2 Penn Center, Philadelphia, Pa. 
19102.
LostMan's gold wedding band and Eagle
Scout locket, Oakland Library side street. 
Beloved to wife of deceased husband. 
Reward. 462-5399.
Draft Counseling provided by Attorney
withoutcharge. Sponsored by B'nai B'rith 
Hillel Foundation, 315 S. Belief ield, 3rd 
floor. Every Tuesday evening 7 to 8:30 
p.m. 621-8875.
Customers Wanted: For Early Bird
Specials, daily in Thistle Room and Kiltie 
Coffee House, .85
Wanted Lionel 0.027, Super 0 and
standard gauge trains. Call 335-7922 after 
7 p.m.
Earn up to $12.00 per hour in your spare
time, selling posters. Phone 625-2028 
evenings.
To whoever found my higher math book
last Thursday in 5314, THANKS! Can 
return by calling 621-3785.
Bell and Howell Model 2263 stereo 7" tape
deck auto reverse, four speeds, meters, 
excellent $100. Sony MX 12 6 channel 
microphone mixer, excellent $60. Pete 
687-1070.
For Sale: 2 studded winter tires, used one
season, size E 78-14, with rims. Cheap. 
$35. 521-8721
One carat diamond ring, pear shape, best
offer. 521-8721.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, January 30, 1973 
A MESSAGE FROM THE PRESIDENTOPINIONS ON THE FIVE YEAR EXPERIMENT:
Cyert Comments on 
Affirmative Action
Phys-Cal: 
The Freshman Experience
Camegie-Mellon University has a policy 
of non-discrimination with regard to race, 
creed, color, sex, and national origin in the 
decisions on applications for admission and 
for employment and in the treatment of 
students, faculty, and staff. Nevertheless, it 
is recognized that the implementation of 
this policy has not resulted in sufficient 
numbers of women, Blacks and other 
minority groups entering our University 
community.
In an effort to rectify this situation, 
theposition of Affirmative Action Officer 
(AAO) has been established. The AAO will 
work with the administration, the faculty, 
the staff, and the students, and with the 
various organizations representing these 
constituencies to help implement admin
istrators to develop affirmative actions to 
assure that the University does in fact 
provide equal opportunities for education 
and employment to all qualified people, 
regardless of race, creed, color, sex, and 
national origin. Included among the means 
used to acheive these objectives will be 
educational seminars, direct conversations, 
and personal search for candidates for 
positions. The office is not empowered to 
make appointments nor to veto appoint
ments, but it will examine the procedures 
and actions used in making new appoint
ments, , in renewing contracts, and in 
promoting women and members of min
ority groups with a view to reporting any 
evidence of discrimination directly to the 
President and of recommending corrective 
actions. The AAO will also serve as the 
Universitys liaison with agencies of the 
Federal Government in matters relating to 
equal employment opportunity and in this 
capacity will transmit the inquiries or 
challenges of such agencies to affected
Ruth Beach, Affirmative Action Officer
Photo by Carl Grefenstette
members of the University community.
It is a pleasure to announce that Dr. 
Ruth Beach, who was formerly a member 
of our faculty and who chaired the 
Commission on the Status and Needs of 
Women at CMU, has been appointed 
Affirmative Action Officer, effective 
January 15, 1973. (She will devote
one-half time to this work, and one-half 
time to student counseling.) She will report 
directly to the President in matters relating 
to equal opportunities for students, fac
ulty, and staff.
With the cooperation and goodwill of all 
members of the campus community, the 
inadvertent shortcomings of the past can 
be overcome, and Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity can take affirmative action to put 
its policy of non-ciscrimination into 
effective operation.
Dr. Richard M. yert 
President
Carnegie -Mellon University
New Director Named 
for Library Center
The Pittsburgh Regional Library Center, 
Inc. (PRLC) has announced the appoint
ment of Dr. Virginia Sternberg as executive 
director. Dr. Sternberg, former supervisor 
of the Technical Information Center at the 
Westinghouse Bettis Atomic Power Lab
oratory, assumed the duties of her new 
post on January 2.
At present, Dr. Sternberg is serving as 
program chairman for the Special Libraries 
Associations annual international confer
ence, which is expected to attract 2,000 
librarians from the United States, Canada 
and other countries to Pittsburgh next 
June.
Dr. Sternberg will continue as a special 
lecturer at the University of Pittsburghs 
Graduate School of Library and Informa
tion Science, where she teaches the course 
in resources in science and technology. She 
has contributed to publications in the 
fields of technical information retrieval, 
computer use in libraries and library 
resources.
The new director has a masters degree 
in library science from Drexel University 
and a Ph.D. in library and information 
science from the University of Pittsb rgh.
On assuming her new position, Dr. 
Sternberg stated: My aims are to promote 
the cooperative library programs being 
developed in this region, such as reducing 
duplicate holdings, publication of library 
tools that will benefit the library users, and 
integration of local systems with national 
library networks now in developmental 
stages. The Pittsburgh Regional Library
Center, which is housed at Chatham 
College in Pittsburgh, is a non-profit organ
ization with 21 members in western Penn
sylvania and West Virginia. It was incor
porated in 1967 for the purposes of 
advancing library science, promotin library 
services and encouraging inter-library 
cooperation among public and private 
libraries in the area.
The Center was created by these institu
tions to meet the need for cooperation and 
sharing of facilities and resources to
improve access to information for the 
residents and students in this region. Pro
grams already under way to aid library 
users are guides to special collections, lists 
for locating periodicals in some 70 libraries 
in western Pennsylvania and West Virginia, 
and a list of services available in member 
libraries.
Member institutions in the Pittsburgh 
district are: Carlow College; Carnegie
library of Pittsburgh; Carnegie-Mellon 
University; Chatham College; Allegheny, 
Boyce and South Campuses of the
Community College of Allegheny County; 
Duquesne University; Pittsburgh Theo
logical Seminary; Point Park College;
Robert Morris College; and the University 
of Pittsburgh.
CMU President Richard Cyert announce the 
appointment of Arnold  Weber at a press 
conference at the Pittsburgh Press Club, last 
Tuesday. Dr. Weber will assume the vacant post* of Dean of GSIA, as well as Provost for H&SS SUPA, & GSIA.   ?
by Joan McCluskey
How can you tell an English major? She 
takes off her shoes to multiply. After 
ploughing merrily through one H&SS 
science requirement in physics, the idea of 
doing a story on the physics-calculus block 
required of all engineering and science 
freshmen came at a most opportune time. 
Pen in hand, the barriers would be broken; 
unguarded administrative statements 
blazing, the mystique of the quantum num
ber shattered, English majors would hold 
their heads high at a lunch table full of 
Christmas slide-rule owners.
The first person to offer his views on 
the course was Ray Artz, an amiable first 
year graduate student. He helped me find 
Dr. Ooterhuis, the man I was supposed to 
be interviewing, and while we were waiting 
he told me what he thought of the course. 
He was at first critical. He felt there was 
not enough correlation between the 
physics and calculus groups. Students have 
nine hours of the course each week-five 
lecture, four recitation. The books are 
different, the teachers are different, the 
work is different, and, as Artz says, The 
only time the students are expected to 
show they can connect the two is on 
tests.
He is critical of the amount of work 
done. Students in the block received 18 
units of credit; doing separate courses they 
receive 20; eleven for calculus, nine for 
physics. The independent calculus course 
covered four chapters of work by the first 
exam. The block, using the same book, 
covered seven. Artz feels that the class 
moves too quickly.
Some students, he says, havent even 
got the basics. They pass partial credit 
from each exam. But some kids didnt get 
one problem totally right.
Artz didnt want to see the course 
dropped. There were definite advantages, 
he said, to a course emphasizing the unity 
of the two subjects. (It was kindly ex
plained that Newton developed calculus to 
solve physics problems.) He would like to 
see more credit offered, at least 24 units 
and suggested the block be an option 
rather than a requirement. (At present, 
only students with advance placement 
credit in physics or calculus have the 
option of doing separate, advanced 
courses.)
The next lucky duck to be interviewed 
was Dr. William Ooterhuis. He has taught 
the physics lecture and recitation classes 
for several semesters. Although mildly criti
cal, Ooterhuis was quick to point out the 
advantages of the block.
The course, which was initiated five 
years ago, is up for re-evaluation, and 
Ooterhuis feels it should remain. The
Robert Kail, CIT freshman advisor
Photo by Nick Lardas
university at Berkley has something similar, 
and they seem to be successful. 
Engineering and science majors must have a 
background ,in physics and calculus, and 
this seems to be the best way. He is not 
saying, however, that changes should not 
be made. They used to use one book; it 
was considered far too easy so now 
separate texts are used. There used to be 
one grade for both courses-now they have 
two. The story of Newton and the prin
ciple of A.P. credit were both reiterrated. 
Dr. Ooterhuis was reluctant to answer 
questions about the future of the course; 
whether it would be renewed or not.
As a final fling, Robert Kail of the 
Office of Undergraduate Affairs was asked 
to comment. He said that the students 
feelings about the course were about onehalf for, one-half against. He produced a 
copy of an opinion poll taken in the 
middle of second semester last year.
A) Question: Should physics and cal
culus be kept a single course instead of two 
separate ones?
In first semester - 156 yes, 117 no.
In second semester - 129 yes, 143 no.
In keeping the course as offerred, 49 
preferred an emphasis on physics, 54 pre
ferred on emphasis on calculus, and 129 
preferred balanced preparation.
Kail went on to say that most faculty 
still considered the project in the experi
mental stage, and that if anyone had an 
opinion, it was usually either whole 
heartedly for or against the project.
Duplication, Ooterhuis said, 
between the calculus learned to do 
physics and as a purely independent sub
ject was eliminated. There was a much 
greater depth of understanding-more time 
and concentration could be given t^ 
studying physics. The subjects are alter* 
nated-never more than 2 consecutive days 
of the same, and the professors confer with 
each other over whats being taught.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, January 30, 1973Page 9
New Director at C-MU Perspectives on the
Foreign Language DeptSUP A Seminar
The first of SUPAs seminars in the 
1973 Professional Seminar Series was held 
on January 24, 1973, in Margaret
Morrison.
Speaker for the day, was Alan R. Siegel, 
Director of HUDs Environmental and 
Utility Division. Mr. Siegel, who previous 
to his present position, worked for a 
private aerospace firm, and then with the 
American space effort for seven years, 
spoke on the topic Introducing a New 
Technology-Modular Integrated Utility 
Systems.
Specifically, Mr. Siegels activities center 
about an attempt to develop a combined 
utility system that will utilize the waste of 
one utility, (heat from electrical power 
generation, for example) as an input for 
another utility, (domestic heat), to 
minimize the environmental impact of 
overall utility provision.
Siegel stressed that the problem was not 
so much one of technology but rather of 
breaking through the tangle of existing 
utility regulations that presently work to 
fragment complementary provision of ser
vice. Though the government is willing to 
assume a large portion of development 
costs, in order for private utilities to begin 
marketing such systems, Siegel stressed 
that they must eventually become eco
nomically competitive.
The Professional Seminar Series is 
conducted by SUPA for the benefit of all 
campus members. The purpose is to bring 
professionals in government, community, 
and other non-profit organizations to 
discuss their experiences and activities, and 
to provide information about opportunities 
in public sector management.
On February 7, the .Seminar series will 
welcome Mr. Kenneth Fields, Assistant to 
the Secretary, Office of the Mayor of 
Pittsburgh.
by Debi Hildebrand
A Phi Os rating of the Modern 
Language Departments faculty was second 
highest in the school, reports Professor 
Silenieks, head of the Modern Language 
Department. The department includes 
seven full-time faculty members, most of 
whom are native speakers of the subject 
they teach. Although Language is a require
ment for H&SS and Voice majors, the 
faculty spirit and student involvement are 
high.
The Modern Language Department 
attracts students from all areas of the 
University, and has much to offer. Beyond 
intensive programs and majors offered in 
French, German, and Spanish, two years of 
Russian and Italian are available. The 
number of Modern Language majors is 
increasing though the increase is slight and 
Professor Silenieks hopes for still more. He 
expressed the feeling that the numbers 
could, perhaps, be augmented by enhanced 
Admissions recruitment. Evelyn Pohl, a 
German major, stated that, its good that 
the department is small because classes are 
small and informal. Professors are willing 
to give extra help and make changes. 
Another student feels that classes are so 
informal that students lack the necessary 
pressure to learn basic grammar adequate
lyTo become a Modern Language major, a 
student must first take a proficiency 
examination. After qualifying, the 
minimum requirements are ninety-six units 
including courses in a major language as 
well as 24 units in a *minor language. 
Besides knowledge of grammar, literature, 
and oral skills, majors must be familiar 
with the various foreign cultures.
A large percentage of language majors 
have double majors with CIT, MIS, or
Student Advisory Committee's 
Changing Role
Amidst a wide divergence of ideas about 
the purpose of student advisory 
committees, the Faculty Senate Standing 
Committee on SACs recently met with 
student representatives from all 23 depart
mental committees. The Standing 
Committee members, Edward Rubin, 
Laurence Boucher, Bill Kelley, and John 
Holobenko, hope to impose some uni
formity on the SAC system.
Student Advisory Committees, an 
appendage of the Faculty Senate, were 
originally intended to give students a voice 
in departmental policy, just as the Faculty 
Senate itself gives faculty a voice in admini
strative and departmental policy. But since 
each academic department is free to select 
in any manner it wishes the students who 
make up its committee, the SACs differ in 
size, organization and assumed purpose. 
Some departments do not allow students 
to elect the committee members who re
present them, and in the resultant con
fusion some committee members have 
called themselves representatives without 
constituencies.
Some of the confusion over the role of 
SACs was documented in a Faculty Senate 
Study Committee study released in April, 
1972, which recommended both that SACs 
should concentrate on departmental affairs 
and that they should work for better 
communication with other departments 
committees.
A poll of faculty senators, department 
heads and student members released with 
the study indicated that twelve depart
ments had active SACs, but that perhaps
H&SS. Carol Silver, a French-English 
major, feels that having a double major 
works well because it enables me to 
combine interests. I can take literature 
courses not offered in French with the 
English Department.
The French Department offers an 
Assimile, or independent study program, 
which allows students to progress at their 
own rate. A text divided into units is 
used, and at the end of each semester, 
students take finals covering the material 
for which they wish to receive credit. The 
program is geared to a learning that would 
enable a student to go a French speaking 
country, for this reason, idiomatic ex
pressions and dialogues are stressed. The 
student translates each dialogue from 
French to English and then back again 
from English to French. Every dialogue is 
available on tape and students are en
couraged to come to class for aid in pro
nunciation, though attendance is not 
mandatory. Students have found the 
Assimile method effective in increasing 
their ability to speak French, and enroll
ment is growing, plans for a similar German 
program are in progress.
In addition to the former programs, a 
Study-Abroad Program was offered in the 
Spring of 1971 and last year, in the coun
tries of France and Germany respectively. 
In this way, students were able to use their 0language skills and to acquire new ones, as 
well as to learn first hand about another 
culture. The first trip was to la Sorbonne, a 
University in Paris which sponsors a special 
program for foreign students. Along with 
other foreigners, eleven C-MU students 
lived in a boarding house with Professor. 
Fougeres and his wife for the semester. 
They submitted notes for four lectures per 
week in subjects of interest, as well as 
working ori special projects. Their classes 
and papers were all in the French language; 
French culture, Humanities, and Fine Arts
As well as the Assimile classes, the 
Modem Language Department runs a 
language lab on the third floor of Mar
garet Morrison which contains tapes of all 
texts used by the department, as well as 
poetry readings and musical selections for 
individual use. Students simply dial the 
number of the tape they wish to listen to. 
Self-recording machines are also available 
so that students can improve pronunciation 
by hearing themselves speak. Carol Silver 
feels that, the lab is efficient and can be 
helpful to students if they take advantage 
of it.
were emphasized according to personal 
interests. The students also toured nearby 
cities and attended various theatres. C-MU 
tuition, with an additional S450, paid for 
travel, living, and school expenses, as well 
as for bussing and theatre tickets. One 
student who participated, Rose Marie 
Sullen, definitely benefited from studying
in the foreign program. Due to lack of 
funds, the program was cancelled this year, 
but Professor Silenieks hopes that the 
Modern Language Department can sponsor 
a similar program next year.
RUGS
Mi ywr ID Carri
1000 9x12 Rue* SIS SI S29 *49
db teK IfclK IMK 
MDtOOttS. UV1NOSOOM* 1C. AVAIIAUI AT MCAMY SHOWKXMU
CHASES
I DAILY lOMttfM(btafday 10 .m. * 5 pjmj . Cm ttl-t
half met regularly. Responses from faculty 
indidated individual SACs could claim 
accomplishments such as establishment of 
a student lounge, abridging the Music 
Departments attendance requirement at 
recitals, and student appointments to 
departmental policy committees. But 
faculty recommendations on the future 
role of SACs ranged from a suggestion that 
SACs be given power to hire and fire 
faculty to the statement,  ... I have be
come aware of the highly personalized and 
fluctuating nature of the response of many 
student representatives. I would object to 
any move to transfer to such committees 
any responsibility for curricular matters or 
faculty evaluation now residing in the 
faculty or the administration.
P R E G N A N T ?  Need Help
ADOPTION SERVICES, PREGNANCY TESTING, ETC. . . . 
NATIONAL FAMILY PLANNING COUNCIL, LTD.
Coll: (215) 457-4139 Philadelphia, Pa.
OAKLAND HARDWARE & TOY CO.
CMUs Convenient Headquarters 
fot Hardware
* Desk Lamps * Key Service ^ Artist Brushes
* Hot Plates * Poster Paints ^ School Supplies 
3606 Forbes Avenue OAKLAND Phone 6214)923
Forbes Ave.Oakland
SECOND FLOOR-ABOVE KING'S COURT THEATREUJet Dream UJoterbed/
Hours: Mon.--Sat. 
12:00-6:00King (6'x7f)*24-95Quee/i(5'x7')
MATTRESS
best quality... lowest prices!
SPECIAL-Complete King System..59.95
Includes: Danish Walnut FrameLinerQuality Mattress

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973
ENTERTAINMENT
FilmsFilms
"The King of Marvin Gardens" "Up The SandboXrr
by Doug Stone
Before viewing The King of Marvin 
Gardens, I was thoroughly prepared to 
dislike it. I had heard that it was dull, 
pointless, and worst of all, that it was 
doing poorly at the box office. Thus it was 
with this negative attitude that I entered 
the Shadyside Theatre and shelled out my 
precious $2.50. Things did not look favor
able when the nights entertainment 
opened up with an offensive short subject 
filled with annoying dialouge and sacchar
ine sweet music. Then the main feature 
started, and Jack Nicholson came on the 
screen. At first I was confused by the 
opening scene, but after that, I was cap
tivated.
Marvin Gardens gives us a view of 
people filled with lost youth and unreal
izable fantasies. Bruce Dern plays a small 
time punk trying to put over his dream of 
buying an island off Hawaii and opening up 
a casino. To aid him in his efforts, he calls 
down his brother from Philadelphia (Jack 
Nicholson), a radio talk show philosopher 
who lives in mounting idleness with his 
grandfather. At first Nicholson is skeptical 
of the schemes of his brother, then later he 
begins to play along, and finally sees the 
utter futility of his brothers hopes and 
dreams. As the movie ends, Nicholson has 
returned to Philadelphia to resume his 
pseudo-philosopher status.
Nicholson and Dern give engaging per
formances as the two brothers. Nicholson 
captures the skeptical brother and brings 
him to reality. Dern does well as the punk 
brother giving us a glimpse of the frustra
tion and impossible ideas that everyone has 
within himself. Ellen Burstyn is fine as 
Derns wife who is going slowly mad 
through loss of youth and looks. Julia 
Anne Robinson is not called upon to do 
much more than look nice and make 
abstruse comments now and then, and she 
doesnt. Atlantic City plays an important 
role as the perfect setting for Marvin Gar
dens. A decaying and decrepit place, 
inhabited mostly by the geriatric set, the 
city adds greatly to the general mood of 
the movie.
The King of Marvin Gardens suffers 
some by being overly long with some 
apparently useless footage. This is only a 
minor objection, however. Perhaps Marvin 
Gardens gives us too much reality-so that 
reality becomes a horror story, much as 
Carnal Knowledge becomes a horror 
story of sexual obsession. King of Marvin 
Gardens is not a particularly entertaining 
movie, and I would not recommend it to 
anyone looking to be vaulted into the 
escapist world of Hollywood romanticism. 
If however, you enjoy viewing human 
interrelations depicted nearly flawlessly 
this is a fine movie.
pa BIMIKii
llll.ra 
ni aiftev Gsmmm offlgtrof fflvg
b  ?EQKi $$D WGDG <3
cauy BQ  Psfetrtaejtrw WM
by Hank Levy
Up the Sandbox,  starring Barbra 
Streisand and David Selby, directed by 
Irvin Kershner, screenplay by Paul Zindel.
We know from Barbra Streisands 
thoroughly delightful performance in 
Bogdanovichs Whats Up Doc that she is 
certainly capable as an actress and comedi
enne, as well as a fine singer. Why then is 
Up The Sandbox one of the dullest films 
of the year? Specifically, director Irvin 
Kershner has made vague attempts at 
humor by presenting slapstick and several 
preposterous situations coupled with some 
photographic stunts, and has fallen short. 
The main objection to the film, however, 
must be that it fails to entertain.
The plot centers on the life and fatasies 
of a modern mother and housewife, played 
by Ms. Streisand, who lives with her 
children and PhD husband in a small New 
York apartment. Presumably, the mono
tony of housework along with insecurities 
about her husbands extracurricular act
ivities cause her romantic fantacies, which 
include an encounter with a tribe of natives 
in an unexplored part of Africa, a quick 
jaunt to blow up the Statue of Liberty 
with a group of saboteurs, and a brief inter
lude with womans rights crusader Fidel 
Castro who demonstrates the latest Latin 
American dance steps. The camera rambles 
from dream to dream with small bits of 
real life interspersed, and even allows us 
the luxury of seeing Ms. Streisands preg
nancy become increasingly clear in 
seconds, as well as a mystical increase in 
breast size which her fails to notice. There 
is even a cake in the face gag followed by a 
wrestling match between Ms. Streisand and 
her mother (the unlucky recipient of the 
cake), where relatives take sides and cheer 
their favorite.
Such photographic and editing devices 
are certainly effective but with overuse 
they become quickly boring, as do the fan
tasies themselves. The script is meager and 
although some of the situations contain
Carnegie Museum
good possibilities for humor they are never 
really developed. Up The Sandbox also 
pretends to promote womens liberation 
and freedom for women to choose their 
own lives. Although Barbra Streisand (in 
real life apparently, as well as in the film) 
enjoys being a housewife, she feels the 
need to be active and values her independ
ence.
The film does have its better moments, 
particularly those involving the mother, 
played by Jane Hoffman. Barbra Streis
ands performance is good enough to 
satisfy Streisand fans, and theres never any 
doubt that shes to be the only star of the 
film, as she appears in every scene and all 
other parts are only minor. David Selby 
dribbles his lines with little emotion, but 
receives no help from the script. The 
funniest line in the film in fact, is Ms. 
Streisand telling her neice, Youd look 
awfully funny walking around with an 
Instamatic up your aSs, sending her crying 
for mommy. If this is the best humor the 
film can produce, its certainly scraping the 
bottom of the sandbox.
How any industry can condone 
unmitigated trash such as Peckinpahs The 
Getaway with a G rating while giving Up 
The Sandbox, dull as it may be, an R 
rating, is beyond the comprehension of this 
reviewer. The Getaway is packed with 
bloody shootings, most performed with the 
utmost of ease and little concern on the 
part of the murderers. Also contained is a 
suicide by hanging and although there is 
little or no nudity there are several sug
gestive sexual scenes, presented in Pecki
npahs normal degrading style. Up The 
Sandbox, a totally harmless film, received 
it R rating because of one glimpse of a 
womans breast. Why does the conscience 
of the industry, its film rating board, 
become so uptight at the sight of a breast? 
Why do they feel the need to protect the 
young from the harmless, while they ignore 
the dangerous? Somewhere in the answer 
to these perhaps is a clue to the decline of 
the film industry itself.
Watfa Midani Exhibition
Photo by Andrea Friedman
The Museum of Art of the Carnegie 
Institute is now presenting an exhibition of 
paintings by Watfa Midani which opened 
Sunday, January 14 in the 3rd floor Gal
lery K of the Museum of Art and con
tinuing through February 25.
Mrs. Midani was born in Beirut, and 
raised and educated in Cairo. She is a 
self-taught artist who painted in the Middle 
East, the Art Students League in New York 
and in Pittsburgh.
About her painting the artist has said, 
My work is a perpetual act of recon
ciliation. I must reconcile the past to the 
present. I must bring the motifs, shapes, 
colors and feelings of the past, my past, to 
the dynamism of the ever changing modern 
times. I look to Egyptian art, with its 
multilayers of many civilizations to find 
myself as an artist. For my self-realization 
as a human being, I look to the whole 
world.
Her work has been exhibited in many 
cities and is represented in collections in
New York, Los Angeles, Philadelphia, Pitts
burgh, Istanbul, Jerusalem and Cairo.
Mrs. Midani has has three previous 
one-man shows in the Pittsburgh area. The 
first was at the Hewlett Gallery, Car
negie-Mellon University, and the last two at 
the Pittsburgh Plan for Art. She is an 
award-winning member of the Associated 
Artists of Pittsburgh and has received two 
purchase awards fiom One Hundred 
Friends of Pittsburgh Art. Mrs. Midani is 
the wife of Akram Midani, dean of the 
College of Fine Arts, Carnegie-Mellon 
University.
Paintings by Watfa Midani are on view 
Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 
p.m.; Tuesdays, 10 a.m. to 9 p.m.; and 
Sundays from 1 p.m. to 5 p.m. New hours 
beginning February 1: Sundays 12 to 5 
p.m.; Closed Mondays; Tuesdays, 10 a.m. 
to 9 p.m. and Wednesday through Satur
day, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTANTuesday, January 30, 19/3Page 11
Films 
"Young Winston" 
and "Sounder"
by Doug Stone
Young Winston is an epic adventure 
film reliving the early years of the life of 
Winston Churchill. The story is amusingly 
written, but prone to be grandiose in its 
celebration of young Winstsons deeds. 
Young Winston avoids discussing any
thing meaningful and glosses over items of 
major importance through the silly cine
matic technique of having an unseen inter
viewer ask questions at various times of the 
characters. Creditable performances are 
given by Anne Bancroft and Robert Shaw, 
while Simon Ward does well adopting the 
peculiar mannerisms and speech of Winston 
Churchill. Young Winston is too long 
and less than a fair movie.
Sounder 
starring Cicely Tyson
Sounder is a beautiful film about 
black sharecroppers during the depression 
era. The story centers around a young boy 
whose father was sentenced to a year in 
prison for stealing food. Sounder follows* 
the boy and his family as they struggle 
through the year when the father is in
carcerated.By and large the performances in
Sounder are excellent, and Cecily Tyson 
does an outstanding job depicting the 
mother of the family. It is quite probable 
that she will receive an Oscar nomination 
for her role.
Unfortunately, Sounder is not now 
playing in Pittsburgh, though it is still in 
general release. Sounder is truly one of the 
years best films and is well worth seeing.
Some of the works on display at the Carnegie-Mellon Students' Gallery.
Student Gallery
"The Senior Prom"
by Stephen Hamm
The Senior Pprom, a showing of the 
work of five senior graphic design students, 
will be at the Student Gallery until Feb
ruary 4. Andrew Myer, Janice Olsen, Rubin 
Pfeffer, Mary Ellen Podgorski, and Ruthie 
Rosenfeld have their work on display in 
the front room of the Gallery. There is a 
one man show by Damian Austin in the 
back room.
The ceiling, floor, and walls of the front 
room are covered with the photographs, 
drawings, rugs, woodcuts, lithographs, 
posters, letterheads, blown glass, printed 
fabrics, acrylics, photo collages, quilts, and 
design projects by the five students. The 
room is overcrowded but the work doesnt 
lose as much from overcrowding as large 
paintings or sculpture would. In fact, what 
the show lacks in excitment, it has in 
quantity, whatever that means. There are a
RecordsOSIBISA
by Terry Caywood
Osibisa, without a doubt, is one of the 
most powerful and exciting rhythm groups 
in the business today. Their last two 
albums, Woyaya and Heads are excell
ent testimonials to this statement. The 
seven member group, three hailing from 
Ghana, and one each from Nigeria, Anti
gua, Trinidad and Grenada, blends tradi
tional rock rhythms and harmonies with a 
heavy visceral spirit found in very few 
other musical alliances.
Woyaya was Osibisas second album, 
and was surprisingly stronger and livelier 
than the first. Most of the songs were 
original compositions, except Spirits Up 
Above, a Roland Kirk tune. In all cases, 
an atmospheric wall of sound envelopes the 
listener (most atmospheric of all, 
Beautiful Seven, the albumss opening 
that begins as an African thunderstorm 
which metamorphoses into a startling, 
dramatic musical performance). The energy 
that this group conveys through Y 
Sharp, Rabiatu, and the albums title 
track Woyaya will astound you.
of all the where do we go from here 
songs ever written, Do You Know is 
probably the heartiest and fullest in flavor. 
As the last minute of music fades away, 
more than likely youll want to flip the 
albuover and start it all again.
The seven who compose Osibisa seem to 
have the magical formula for blending 
some of the finest rhythms and melodic 
riffs to please ones senses. The only fault I 
can seem to find is the vocals. Rough and 
human, this weak point may also be 
Osibisas focal point for meaningful 
expression. Perfect voices arent always the 
most lasting. Once these ragged edges have 
been smoothed over by a few listenings, 
you may find an Osibisa album one of your 
most enjoyable and lasting musical packages.
The Bible-whats in itfor you?
Find out through regular daily study. The Bible Lessons in the Christian Science Quarterlyare unique. They provide you with a home study Bible course for less than 10 a day. Study which brings real insight to the Scriptures, greater purpose and understanding into yourlifa
Buy your own copy of the Quarterly or study the Bible Lessons in our free, public Reading Room.
415 S. Craig St., Oakland, 15213
lot of good things there. Theyre small but 
good. The things I like best are the silk 
screened fabrics, which are suspended from 
the ceiling and hung high on a wall, and a 
small blue book called Those Who Fly. 
The book has pictures of a broken-up jet 
fighter plane that looks like the kind you 
would see in a community park with bricks 
thrown through the glass and a tennis shoe 
left in the cock-pit. It has quotes from 
pilots about watching control panels and 
bailing out in the air war that somehow 
become poetic within the context of the 
book and the books design and intent. 
Both the fabrics and the Those Who Fly 
booklet are the work of Janice 
Olsen.
Something else that interests me 
is the collection of small acrylics by Ruth 
Rosenfeld and Andrew Myer. Some of
Photo by John Shettel
these paintings are five inches square or 
maybe they are five inches by eight inches 
by seven inches with a bent limb. Anyway 
theyre all grouped together on one wall 
and it seems from looking at them that 
they belong together on that wall.
Damians work is in the back and he had 
to sweat to fit all the stuff he has back 
there. Hes got wood sculpture, oil paint
ings, plaster sculpture, and ceramic 
pottery. His paintings are wierd. Theyre 
concerned with sex and violence, and 
blood, gore, and abstraction. The canvases 
have bizaar shapes and the paint is put on 
thickly. The ones I like best are Tri
angular Triumph, Quarto Unseen, Effort 
of not knowing, But succeeding, with waht 
I know-yet to live. I question, controls and 
self, and Sexuality Unknown.
The Student Gallery is in need of volun
teers to give their time as attendants while 
the Gallery is open. If you are interested 
get in touch with them.
The next show will start February 6 and 
will include the work of Chris Beaman and 
Michael Mesaras.
Another amazing attribute of the 
second Osibisa release was its cover; boldly 
adorned with a firey red elephant with 
eagles claws and dragon-fly wings, 
dropping from the sky to a murky swamp 
inhabited by only homed-nosed lizards. 
The striking image was conceived and 
drawn by Roger Dean, the same artist who 
has also done the last two Yes covers.
Heads, Osibisas latest release, is made 
of more of the same life and vigor, joy and 
excitement that the first held. The albums 
first track is Kokorokoo, a song of 
African Hide-and-Seek. Typical of Osibisa 
is the happiness exuded through their 
ear-opening performance. A sincerity 
developes in the music that is both refresh
ing and involving. So So Mi La So is an 
instrumental that exemplifies the excell
ence of their musicianship. Sweet 
America conveys a nicely heartfelt rever
ence for a country other than the artists. 
A California aura surrounds Mentumi, 
and Sweet Sounds speaks for itself. And
cr NEW ORLEANS
^ ORIGINAL
IflAR
GRAS
MARCH 2 thru 8
TICKETS $121 .00 INCLUDING:
Four fabulous nights in New Orleans during the 
legendary Mardi Gras; accommodations at the 
historic old Columns Hotel (occupancy touT per room) t with 
continental breakfast served every morning___
Round-trip transportation between Pittsburgh and New 
Orleans via Greyhound deluxe Pullman coach , with a 
breakfast stop in Birmingham, Alabama on the way down.
For applications and information ,get in touch with :
STUDENT TRAVEL CENTER 
DUQUESNE UNIVERSITY 
UNION, TOO 
PITTSBURGH, PA 15219 
or call
279-5909 434- 6667
A DEPOSIT OF 40 DOLLARS DUE BY FEB 14

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973 
PROBLEMSACTIONS
PIRG: Problems and Actions
by Steve Correll
PIRG seems to have been having sorpe 
organizational difficulties recently. Steve 
Rubinstein, President of the CMU friends 
of PIRG, reports that about 300 CMU un
dergraduates chose to donate two dollars 
to PIRG on their second semester tuition 
bills. Total income from the billing was 
$725. PIRG must get donations from 35 
percent of CMU students in one year in 
order to continue collecting funds through 
university bills.
The CMU PIRG supporters have 
suffered from a series of snafus involving 
the billing procedure. CMU trustees ap
proved an optional checkoff rather than an 
automatic donation listed on the invoice. 
Problems with office services delayed a 
mass mailing of solicitations for first 
semester funds until midsemester, not long 
before the mailing of the second semester 
bills containing the checkoff donation. 
And in the short interval between trustees 
approval and tuition mailing, PIRG failed 
to prepare much publicity material,so that 
the only explanation of the PIRG checkoff 
procedure came in a letter written by Dean 
Swank instead of student supporters.
Meanwhile, according to CMU alumnus 
Gloria Cohen, member of the WP-PIRG 
staff and board of directors, the Pittsburgh 
area office of the organization is in the 
process of reorganizing.
The original structure for local PIRG 
offices, as envisioned by Ralph Nader, 
relied on a group of about a dozen paid
professionals, supplemented by students 
and other volunteer workers, and financed 
by a mandatory donation added to student 
tuition bills. The donation would begin 
after a majority of students at a university 
had signed petitions supporting PIRG. 
Then students would elect a campus board 
of directors, which would in turn send 
representatives to an area board that would 
control the local office.
The plan .has worked well elsewhere; 
Oregon universities, in particular, support 
an active PIRG. But despite majority 
support for PIRG on petitions at Pitts
burgh universities, the plan is not yet 
working here. None of the universities has 
agreed to add a mandatory fee to student 
bills. Chatham and CMU have not held 
elections for campus boards, and as a result 
Pittsburgh has not been able to establish an 
earea board. The local office now employs 
only two paid staffers on what one 
described as subsistence salaries.
A paid professional staff is important to 
Naders concept, since student partici
pation evaporates during holidays and 
summer vacations. The Westmoreland 
County tax case, for example, broke with a 
news conference on December 27. Asked if 
CMU PIRG supporters participated in that 
action, Ms. Cohen replied, Very little, un
fortunately . ..most of the action 
occurred around Christmas, when no one 
was around.
by Steven Correll
Western Pennsylvania Public Interest 
Research Group, the consumer reform 
group which received the support of 300 
C-MU students through the optional 
donation clause on spring semester bills, 
has joined Westmoreland County citizen 
groups in battling a recent county-wide real 
estate reappraisal. Opponents of the re
appraisal charge that a private assessment 
company gave favored treatment to several 
large landowners, including the Mellon 
family.
WP-PIRG became involved in the 
attempt to overturn the appraisal when a 
Westmoreland county resident, Margaret 
Sosigan, asked Ralph Naders Washington-based Tax Reform Research Group 
to help force the county to let her see her 
own assessment record. The Tax Reform 
Research Group sent to Pennsylvania an 
organizer, Barry Greever, who suggested 
PIRG staffers could learn techniques and 
gain experience working with him in an 
investigation of the case.
On December 27 the two organizations 
joined the Association of Concerned Tax
payers, a coalition of Westmoreland 
County citizen groups, in asking State 
Attorney General J. Shane Creamer to 
investigate a number of complaints, in
cluding charges that in Ligonier Township, 
appraisals for Mellon property increased 
only 2 per cent while appraisals as a whole 
increased 40 per cent. The three organiza
tions also charged that, in violation of state 
law, tax records have been kept secret from 
citizens.
The reappraisal, the first in the county 
in 30 years, was conducted by a Dayton, 
Ohio company, Cole-Layer-Trumble, under 
contract to the county. The citizen groups 
have directed much of their criticism at the 
company, charging that it supplied in
correct or nonexistent addresses for 10 per 
cent of the assessment notices, though the 
company supposedly sent appraisers to the 
property sites to determine their value. 
Glenn Miller, a WP-PIRG staffer, said that 
in some cases the firm hired students and 
sent them to appraise property after only 
one day of training. He also said that the 
company was kicked out of West Vir
ginia after irregularities involving Con
solidated Coal Corporation and that suits 
have been filed against it in Atlanta, 
Georgia, and Fort Wayne, Indiana.
(Almost a month after the original 
accusations, company president William 
Gunlock denied the charges, saying they 
were strictly for impact value and without 
foundation. In a press conference on 
January 22 he said that Mellon property 
appraisals throughout the county increased 
an average of 6 per cent, that the firm 
employs students only for preliminary 
work and that most lawsuits against his 
firm are dropped after the initial publicity 
surrounding them has died out. According 
to Mr. Gunlock, the company identifies 
property by number rather than by name
to prevent preferential treatment.)
On January 11, the three organizations 
testified at a Westmoreland county com
missioners meeting, asking the commiss
ioners to scrap the appraisal and order a 
new one. Commissioner Robert G. Shirey, 
who opposed the Cole-Layer-Trumble re
appraisal during his 1971 election cam
paign, now says he doesnt believe the 
county can afford to lose the $965,000 it 
paid the company and has expressed doubt 
that the three groups accurately represent 
the opinion of the people of the county. 
Shirey admitted during the meeting that 
the Mellon family contributed heavily to 
his campaign, but maintains he serves all 
the people and is beholden to no one.
Mr. Miller said that futuie PIRG activi
ties might include a suit under state right-to-know statutes to force public disclosure 
of assessment records. He also suggested a 
possible statewide investigation of mass 
appraisal firms and work toward legislation 
outlawing these firms. California and 
Oregon already have such laws. A statewide 
investigation would pay attention to Alle
gheny County. Though county officials 
told him they do not hire appraisal firms, 
Miller said a publicity brochure from Cole-Layer-Trumble claims the company has 
performed work here.
Financial Aid
continued from page 1
on a large number and said, We would 
like to keep doing basically what we have 
done in the past, at least for next year. 
Elliott agreed that the basic pattern of aid 
would remain the same.
Randy Chapman, a GSIA student who 
has studied the allotment of aid to fresh
men at CMU, notes that financial aid is 
unlikely to wither, since it attracts students 
who, through the loan portion of their 
payment, provide the univeristy with 
revenue. I think in the future that net 
income will seem more important than 
simply minimizing the aid budget, he said. 
Both Elliott and Hine stress the need to 
compete for entering students.
Beyond the near future, however, aid 
policies might change sharply. Dr. Cyert 
has discussed with trustees the concentra
tion of scholarship money on freshmen and 
sophomores who, since they drop out of 
school more frequently than upper
classmen, are presumed to undergo a 
greater risk of losing their college invest
ment; at the same time, CMU would supply 
more funds for loans and jobs for upper
classmen. But Cyert promised that any 
change is far from implementation: If we 
did it, students would know before they 
came here. And he added, We must 
always be completely honest. I know in the 
past, students sometimes had their scholar
ships cut off after a year here even though 
they performed perfectly well ... That 
kind of thing is going to stop.
BNAI BRITH HILLEL-jEWISH UNIVERSITY CENTER
Fri. Feb". 2
* Faculty-Student Sabbath
Worship Service 
CMU SKIBO Chapel Rm. 39 
Dinner
Faculty-Dining Room 
SKIBO CMU
Dr. Harold Burstyn, Dept, of History-CMU 
Dr. Joan Burstyn, Dept, of Psychology & Education-CMU
What Are We Doing Here? 
Thoughts on Life, Immortality, etc.
$2.00
621-8875 by Wed. jan. 31 for reservations
Sat. Feb. 3 
Ice Skating Party 
at Alpine Ice Chalet 
I Bus leaves Y-IKC-315 S. Bellefied-9:45 p.m.
I Cost-$1.50 plus 50 cents to rent skates.
Sun. Feb. 4 -8 p.m.
Family Planning Panel
| Medical, Legal, Psychiatric, and Moral Issues in Abortion, Sterilization, 
Fertility Termination, Birth Control, etc.
Participants! Dr. Richard Finegold,Dr. Norman Kresh,
Dr. Leonard Laufe, Dr. Hazel Samilowitz 
Mr. Stanley Winikoff, Rabbi Phillip Sigal.
Student Union Ballroom-University of Pittsburgh 
I Open to public 
j Admission: Free
REGAL NOTES
UNDERSTAND PLAYS, NOVELS AND POEMS
FASTER WITH OUR NOTES
Were new and were the bigest! Thousands of
topics reviewed for quicker understanding. Our
subjects include not only English, but Anthro
pology, Art, Black Studies, Ecology, Eco
nomics, Education, History, Law, Music,
Philosophy, Political Science, Psychology,
Religion, Science, Sociology and Urban ProbREGAL NOTESlems. Send $2 for your catalog of topics avail3160 O'* Street, N.W.able.Washington, D. C. 20007
Telephone: 202-333-0201
j 6:30 p.m. 
J 7:15 p.m.
I Speakers:
j Topic:
I Cost: 
i Call:
VALENTINES DAY 
FEBRUARY 14th
A Day For Sentimental Remembrance
If You Have The Girl,
We Have The Valentine....
C-MU BOOKSTORE

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973-Page 13
* OperationsResearch Services Available to Campus
. News
^INFORMATION TO PARK-ARD
* HOLDERS:
(THE STATE OF THE GATE)
Did you know that there is now a coin 
acceptor on the Skibo A lot (Area 5) which 
will allow any visitor to park on that lot 
^after 3 p.m. for 25 cents?
Did you know that evening cards will 
operate the following three lots after 2:30 
p.m.: Skibo A (Area 5); Morewood
Gardens (Area 8), and the Mellon Institute 
(Area 10) lots?
(All MI lot gates will become opera
tional as soon as the paved lot is relined to 
change the parking pattern.) 
j Meters will soon be installed on the 
' Bureau of Mines road, adjacent to the back 
entrance to Science Hall. These will be 25 
cents per hour meters limited to two-hour 
parking.
Parking regulations and enforcement 
have been modified slightly by the Parking 
Committee and will be published shortly.
Car Thefts Drop Sharply
The number of auto thefts on campus 
has been greatly reduced since the new 
parking system went into effect. No cars 
have been stolen since the gates went into 
operation during the week of Nov. 26, 
1972. The last car theft on campus was 
reported on Nov. 23, 1972.
L From July 1, 1972, until the gates were 
installed, a total of seven cars were stolen 
from campus property. During the same 
period last year, 25 auto thefts were 
reported.
According to Security Director Ron 
Taylor, one of the prime considerations in 
the installation of gates in campus parking 
lots was the possibility of auto theft reduction.
This grew out of the observation that, 
in the past, lots that were gated (Baker 
Hall, Fine Arts, and Skibo) experienced 
little or no auto theft, Taylor said.
I would not be so naive as to think 
that gates alone have caused such a radical 
reduction in auto thefts, but the associ
ation certainly isnt spurious.
Morewood Phones Repaired
Telephone systems have been a focus of 
attention for more than one office of the 
Operations Division in recent weeks. 
 During Christmas vacation, two enter
prising students, Tom Young and Eugene 
Hastings, went to work for the Housing 
Office and restored the Morewood house 
phone system. They diagnosed circuitry 
and switching problems, replaced defective 
phones, and installed new ones.
The cost to the University for this 
comprehensive repair service was a small 
> fraction of commercial bids for diagnoses 
alone, according to Housing Director Bill 
Dillon.
Inter-Dorm Phones Considered
A combination of both systems with 
reduced numbers of each type of phone 
has been suggested. But student opinions 
are needed before any action will be made.
OMBUDSMAN DUTIES EXPANDED
The duties of Ombudsman Frank 
Colosimo have expanded this semester to 
include matters related employment. Any 
staff member who would like to discuss a 
job-related problem with someone other 
than, or in addition to, their supervisor or 
Personnel can go to 304 Warner Hall or call 
ext. 806.
Colosimo also handles requests and 
complaints about services provided by the 
Operations Division from students, faculty, 
and staff.
The title ombudsman comes from the 
Swedish concept of an official who ex
pedites citizens requests for government 
action. In the same manner, our ombuds
man receives input on any matter that 
students, faculty or staff feel may not be 
getting through normal channels. All 
matters discussed will be kept confidential.
FOOD SERVICE NEWS
New Luncheon Specials
Two new luncheon specials are available 
regularly in both the Kiltie Coffee House 
and the Thistle Room.
The Early Bird Special is served from 
11:30 to 11:50 a.m. for 85 cents. This 
includes a main entree, a vegetable or salad, 
and beverage; or the lo-cal salad plate, roll 
and butter, and beverage.
The Regular Luncheon Special is 
available from 11:50 a.m. to 2 p.m. for 95 
cents. It includes a main entree, a vegetable 
or salad, and beverage; or the lo-cal salad 
plate, roll and butter, and beverage.
Catering Reservations
Reservations for catering may be made 
between 9:30 to 11:30 a.m. and from 1 to
5 p.m. Monday through Friday by calling 
Harry Duane at ext. 410.
Mrs. Gladys Cody will retire from the 
position of catering manager as of Feb. 1, 
but will continue to work part-time. She 
will be succeeded as catering manager by 
Harry Duane.
Accomodations for very small, intimate 
groups or very large groups can be 
arranged. Menus may be selected from a 
wide variety of standard offerings, or may 
be planned to order.
Dorm residents are encouraged to express 
their feelings on the above proposals by 
calling Frank Colosimo at ext. 806.
Coin Phones to be Replaced
Major progress was made recently in 
another area of phone service through a 
joint effort of the Dean of Men and the 
Ombudsman. Reinstallation has been 
scheduled for six coin phones that were 
pulled out of the following dormitory 
locations: 1st floor Henderson; 1st floor 
Welch; 3rd floor Hamerschlag A wing; 3rd 
floor Morewood E tower; 2nd floor Mudge
C, and 3rd floor Donner East.
Henderson and Welch will be serviced 
first since these buildings have been with
out public phones for several months. All 
units will bear their original numbers.
Bell Telephones agreement to reinstate 
service to these areas was made with the 
understanding that any further abuse of a 
coin phone on campus would result in its 
permanent removal.
Scientific, technical, and stenographic 
assistance is available to anyone at CMU 
through the facilities of Research Services, 
part of Educational and Research Services. 
This assistance can range from an hours 
work to collaboration on a long-term 
research project.
Research Services was originally organ
ized to assist research groups within Mellon 
Institute before incorporation with the 
University, so its facilities are located in 
the Mellon Institute Building. After the 
merger, these services were extended to the 
entire campus.
Descriptions of the services are available 
and the name of the person to call for 
additional information will be given below. 
(All room numbers and telephone exten
sions refer to the Mellon Institute 
Building.)
The scientific services include a variety 
of instrumental methods of material anal
ysis and characterization.
ABSORPTION SPECTROSCOPY in
cludes ultraviolet-visible, infrared, Raman, 
and nuclear magnetic resource methods of 
analysis. These techniques are particularly 
suited to composition and structural 
studies of gases, liquids, solids, and poly
meric materials. Several spectral reference 
collections are also available. (F.R. Dollish, 
Rm. 217, x1-213 or G.L. Carlson, Rm. 
217, x7-569) EMISSION SPECTROGRAPHY is very useful for rapid semi 
quantitative analyses of major and trace 
constituents of metals, inorganic materials, 
and ashed organic samples. Atomic ab
sorption analyses for the determination of 
individual metallic elements in inorganic 
and organic materials can also be per
formed. (E.S. Hodge, Rm.239, x7-212)
TRANSMISSION ELECTRON MICRO
SCOPY is available for complete morpho
logical characterization of a wide variety of 
materials, including biological specimens. 
Determination of crystal structure by dark 
field transmission, electron diffraction, and 
particle size distribution for powders in the 
submicron range can also be provided. 
(M.N. Haller, Rm.295, x7-521)
The ELECTRON PROBE X-RAY 
MICROANALYZER, which can identify 
all elements in the periodic table above 
carbon, is a powerful tool for examining 
surface layers of metallic and other con
ducting samples. This technique may be 
used to identify and determine the com
position of precipitates and inclusions, and 
to determine concentration gradients in 
inhomogeneous systems. (L.F. Vassamillet, 
Rm.200, x7-539)
The PHYSICAL MEASUREMENTS 
LABORATORY offers a variety of special
ized techniques and instrumentation. 
Measurements of basic physical properties 
and accurate calibration of temperature 
measuring devices can be provided. Surface 
area measurements, amino acid analyses, 
and solvent purification can Iso be per
formed. Gas chromotography is a major 
function of this laboratory. Instruments 
are also available for analyses and separa
tions.^..!. Reitz, Rm. 319, x7-301)
HIGH RESOLUTION MASS SPECTRO
METRY is a powerful tool for identifying 
unknown organic materials. Molecular 
weight of an unknown sample can usually 
be established, and molecular fragment
ation patterns can often be used to deter
mine empirical formula and structure. (J.J. 
McGovern, Rm. 414, x7-234 or J.R. Boal, 
Rm. 131, x7-422)
SCANNING ELECTRON MICRO
SCOPY is a valuable technique for morpho
logical studies of metal, ceramic, and 
biological specimens because of its wide 
range of magnification and unusually great 
depth of focus. The extremely small 
electron beam of the scanning microscope
can be used as a precision probe to excite 
fluorescence from submicron diameter 
areas. An energy-dispersive X-ray analyzer 
mounted on this microscope permits rapid 
identification of elements between Na and 
Mo. (L.F. Vassamillet, Rm.200, x7-539 
and M.N. Haller, Rm. 295, x7-521)
An X-RAY LABORATORY is 
.well-equipped for either single crystal or 
powder diffraction studies. Xray dif
fraction is an excellent technique for 
rapidly identifying minerals and other 
crystalline compounds, such as pigments, 
corrosion products, and polymers. Quanti
tative analysis of crystalline mixtures, 
crystallite size measurements, and deter
mination of the nature and size of re
peating units in polymers can also be 
carried out. (S.S. Pollock, Rm. 219, 
x7-549)
A GLASSBLOWING SHOP provides 
design and construction service for all 
types of laboratory glassware using borosilicate, quartz, and vycor glass. Complete 
vacuum systems, pumps, gauges, Dewars, 
cells, etc., can be constructed. Any stand
ard item listed in the various laboratory 
glassware catalogs can be fabricated at 
competitive prices., (A. Jubera, Rm. 116, 
x7-320)
The INSTRUMENTS SECTION assists 
in the design and construction of instru
ments and apparatus. Maintenence checks 
and repairs can be made on instruments 
ranging from balances to computers. 
Several evaluation tests, such as tensile and 
impact measurements, dielectric break
down, and weathering test, are available. 
An INSTRUMENTS STOCKROOM main
tains an inventory of reusable items, such 
as microscopes, photometers, pumps, 
heaters, and electrical measuring equip
ment. (General Information: E.C. Horey, 
Rm.- 303, x7-327; Stockroom: W.C.
Barnes, Rm. 307, x7-482)
The MACHINE SHOP provides 
complete metal working service for con
struction and repair of instruments and 
equipment. Assistance is available for all 
stages of work-from design to production 
of an operating piece of equipment. Pre
cision lathes, milling machines, welding 
equpment, and ultrasonic and diamond 
drills are available* The Shop also repairs 
mechanical equipment, including all types 
of vacuum pumps. Engraved signs and 
nameplates can also be produced. (S. W. 
Bradley, Rm. 230, x7-324)
The PHOTOGRAPHIC AND DRAFT
ING DEPARTMENT performs all types of 
camera work, film processing and printing, 
and slide preparation. Drafting service for 
the preparation of diagrams, charts, 
illustrations, and detailed engineering 
drawings is available. Artwork for bro
chures, emblems, certificates, awards, and 
posters can also be provided. (G. Arnold, 
Rm. 305, x7-342)
All types of stenographic assistance, 
ranging from complete secretarial services 
to typing of manuscripts, books, and 
reports, is available. (R.B. Zeffer, Rm. 409, 
x7-359 or V.A. Buhonick, Rm. 409, 
X7-477)
For all these services, a charge is made 
based on the time involved. However, it is 
believed that the rates are usually lower 
than those of outside commercial facilities. 
It is hoped that anyone needmg assistance 
in these areas will give Research Services 
the opportunity to bid on any anticipated 
work.
Information on particular problems, 
rates, or scheduling of work can be 
obtained from the laboratory or section 
head listed above. For general information 
about Research Services, contact the 
Director ( J.J. McGovern, Rm. 414, x7-234) 
or the Assistant Director (G.L. Carlson, 
Rm.217, x7-569>.
Campus Communications

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973
SPORTS
EDITORIALOn a Saturday morning two rag-tag, pick-up baskegball teams were having the 
time of their lives in what they must have thought was the game of the year. 
Oblivious to the waiting would-be competitors, some of whom comprised actual 
I.M. teams, surrounding them, they dribbled madly up and down the court-the 
main, center court of Tech Gymnasium. But why should they, or those controlling 
the secondary courts flanking the main one, worry about the seven baskets being 
wasted? After all, the other prospective players could wait to play the winner!If 
they were keeping score, no one looking on heard any numbers exclaimed after 
baskets.
Intramural basketballs intent is to make Americas most popular, most 
flexible, and most physically benefiting sport available to all college men with any 
desire to play it. The varsity only has room for a dozen or so, and these are 
naturally the most skillful on campus. A grueling and time-consuming practicing 
and traveling schedule is another stipulation of playing varsity. However, anyone 
who wants to can, theoretically, play intramural basketball.
But if a few prima donnas are going to insist on dominating all usable playing 
space on Saturday mornings, why not just render intramurals exclusive to everyone 
except these magnificent few?
Half of a court is easily sufficient space to get some valuable practice, and 
those who cant see this should make the sacrifice in the name of sportsmanship, or 
democracy, or for the good of the sport. Otherwise, why not just make I.M. 
basketball a varsity sport?
Jeff R. Englund
J. J. Jordan tips for two
Photo by Nick Lardas
' %  - i'Jk, : ; :t ...........'  : - r **i
X **s' : .
C-MU and Case swimmers at the gun
Photo by Greg NickelC-MU
Swimmers in Victory
by Jim Sivak
On Saturday, January 20th, the CMU 
Swim Team defeated Westminster College 
by a score of 66 to 47. It was the swim 
teams first victory this year. They are now 
1-4 for the season.
Saturdays performance was sparked by 
several of the team members. Co-captain 
Pete Hoysan took in 13 points, himself 
with first places in the 1000 yard Freestyle 
and the 200 yard I.M., and a second in the 
500 yard Freestyle. Larry Lawson brought 
home ten points with two firsts in the 
diving events. The two girls bn CMUs 
coed team not only looked better than 
Westminsters swimmers but even scored 
some points. Sally Dittman took a second 
in the 200 yard Backstroke, and Suzy 
Sanders took a hard-fought third place in 
the 100 yard Freestyle.
This victory gave the team its needed 
boost in morale.
Last Tuesday, the CMU tankers met the 
swimmers from Washington and Jefferson 
and lost. The defeat was decisive but not 
devastating. With a final score of 65 to 48, 
the CMU swimmers put up valiant efforts. 
Unfortunately, it just wasnt enough.
firsts and a third in the 1000, 500, and 200 
IM respectively. Larry Lawson, the diverv 
also took in two firsts.
There were some excellent perform
ances turned in by some of the swimmers. 
Pete Hoysan, the teams high point man, 
brought in two firsts and a second in the 
1000, 500, and 200 IM. Steve Cropcho 
came up with an important second in the 
1000 while Dave Climer pulled in 10 points 
with firsts in the 50 and 100. Larry 
Lawson had two firsts in diving and looked 
as though he was finally diving up to par. 
Gerry McNemey, the diver-backstroker, 
took three big seconds in diving and back
stroke. A few performances, however, were 
not where they should have been and with 
no depth, the CMU team had no one left 
for the all or nothing lasl relay.
On Friday, the Tartan swimmers took 
on the tankers from Case. It was a very 
closely contested meet with the final relay 
deciding the meet. Both teams had people 
out with the flu, which might have made 
for an even closer meet if they were 
healthy. After Cases anchor man touched 
at the end of the 400 Free Relay the final 
score became 58 to 55, with Case taking
Again, senior Pete Hoysan took two the victory.Tartan Cagers Triumph
by Roger Geddes
Well it finally happened! The CamegieMellon Tartans no longer seek that first 
victory of the year. Last Friday, they won 
their first game of the season against Thiel 
College, by the score of 61 to 59, to up 
their record to 1 - 9.
Coach Rudy Yaksich saw his first CMU 
victory as a moral victory and a good 
team effort. The story of the victory, 
however, was the brilliant defense played 
by the Tartans. They played like leeches
commended Coach Yaksich. The Tartan 
defenders played as close to their men as 
possible causing several turnovers and 
hurried shots by Thiel.
Even though the Tartans won, they 
were never in complete control of the game 
as the lead changed hands several times. At 
one point Thiel was winning by as much as
5 points, while later in the game, CMU was
up by as much as 5 points. But with four
minutes left, Mark Donato sank a shot to 
put them ahead by one point and the lead 
was theirs for the rest of the game. In the 
last minute, Mike Hopkins sank two clutch 
foul shots that contributed greatly to the 
victory.
Coach Yaksich was especially proud of 
the victory because his team played a full 
40 minutes of basketball instead of only 25 
or 30. In other games, CMU played well 
for one half but in the other, their pace has 
been slower. Unusually so, Coach Yaksich 
did not replace a starter until 9 minutes 
left in the game. Other than those starters, 
only two Tartan replacements saw action 
in the game. Four Tartans shot their way 
into double figures with Gary Rentsch 
pacing the way with 19 points.
Unfortunately, in other action last 
week, CMU was handed defeats by St. 
Vincent and Allegheny by scores of 96-53 
and 83-61, respectively.
In the St. Vincent game, CMU only 
trailed by 6 points at the half but foul 
trouble epded any hopes of a victory. Four 
Tartans fouled out as Carnegie-Mellon had 
an incredible 34 fouls called against them.
Against Allegheny last Saturday, CMU 
trailed by 18 points at the half and were 
never really in the game after that. Again 
the Tartans ran into foul trouble very early 
in the first half but the story of this defeat 
was the lack of rebounds. The height of the 
Allegheny team gave them 15 more 
rebounds than Carnegie-Mellon and several 
blocked shots.
In action this week, the Tartans will try 
for number two against Case Western 
Reserve University, Tuesday away, and 
Grove City away on Saturday. These two, 
games begin a six game road trip. The 
Tartans will not return to Skibo Gym until 
February 15 for a game against Washington 
and Jefferson College.
Tom Kuhar from six Photo by Nick Lardas

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973-Page 15
by Glenn Campbell
The role sport should play in modern 
society has been a subject of great debate 
in recent years. Nowhere has this role been 
under more scrutiny than in colleges and 
universities. Allegations are made about 
under the table payments, illegal recruiting, 
and win at any cost coaches. Its reassuring 
to see the role sport plays at Carnegie-Mellon University, the student athlete 
competing in an activity simply for the 
pleasure it brings.
Friday, the basketball team finally won 
its first game of the season. Their earlier 
defeats should be forgotten and future 
games looked forward to . There is always 
tomorrow and the chance to play again. 
This is the beauty of sport the future and 
what it holds.
Nowhere is the future more evident 
than the growth of college hockey at 
C-MU. Started only a few years ago, the 
Tartan icemen have formed a rabid group 
of followers. The team is currently 
undefeated with only two ties marring a 
perfect record. These players show a great 
love for the sport, paying for their own 
practice ice time and practicing at ungodly 
hours. Although they are drawing good 
crowds, they would play with no one in 
attendance. Putting up with that they do
New Recruiting Policy 
Instituted at C-MU
to play hockey, they show that com
petition is the key, the very essence of 
sport.
Sports such as swimming and wrestling 
are basically individual sports, swimmer 
versus clock and wrestlers mano a mano. 
Not many people follow these athletes but 
they epitomize the struggle for improve
ment, to reach a goal.
Intramurals are a large part of athletic 
life and well they should be. While 
someone may not be proficient enough to 
perform on a varsity level, he or she can 
play with others of similar ability. It is 
only in recent years we have witnessed the 
growth of spectator sports. Even though 
watching sports is entertaining, it is just as 
entertaining, if not more so, to play your
self. Intramurals should always be well 
supported for those who want to play with 
those of similar abilities.
We should remember that sport was 
invented for athletes; winning and losing 
have been invented only as a measuring 
device to gauge improvement.-An athlete 
should strive to win. But if he should lose 
he isnt less a man, or a loser. Losing is a 
natural experience in both sport and life 
and it should help us realize what living 
and striving are all about.
by Marc Field
Raymond Haynes is determined to 
improve the sports program at CMU. As 
the director of the Physical Education and 
Athletics Departments, he is instituting 
several changes he feels will increase 
student participation and awareness of 
what his department has to offer.
C-MU has recently become a member of 
the NCAA (National College Athletic 
Association). This will not change the 
conference we are in or the teams that we 
play during the year. It will give out
standing athletes at CMU the opportunity 
to participate in NCAA competition and 
receive national prominance. Haynes is 
especially pleased about this since he feels 
it will encourage an athlete to consider 
CMU who also wants to work Aard on 
academics.
If he excells in any particular sport, he 
could be selected to represent this region in 
NCAA games. This holds ture for indivi
dual sports (such as swimming or tennis) 
and team sports.
Another innovation Haynes is bringing 
to the sports program is a new and rigorous 
recruiting program. Haynes is optimistic 
about it since heretofore our recruiting 
was almost nil. The recruiting process
C-MU Icemen Breeze by Duquesne
The Tartan hockey team continued in 
its winning ways last Sunday, shocking 
Duquesne 5 to 0. The game was important 
for Duquesne since a win would keep them 
in contention for second place while a loss 
would virtually eliminate their hopes for a 
playoff berth this season. A week before, 
the Dukes seemed to be on the way to an 
upset over Pitt. However, Pitt quickly 
wiped out Duquesnes four goal lead in the 
second period and went on to win 10 to 6.
After such an impressive performance, 
the Tartans expected a close, tightchecking hockey game against the Dukes. 
This was not the case. Duquesne appeared 
to come into the game planning to 
physically run a smaller CMU team right 
out of the rink. Other teams have used this 
strategy this year against the Tartans and 
had no success. Duquesne was no ex
ception. A scoreless first period reflected 
the usual slow start for CMU but did not 
reflect the dominance which the Tartans 
displayed. The faster CMU team was able 
to skate by most of Duquesnes heavy 
checking. Nor had the Dukes anticipated 
that CMU would bounce back so readily.
Action in the second period broke wide 
open when CMLPs Jeff Jacobs scored two 
goals within one minute on some fine 
passing and shooting. Excellent fore
checking and backchecking by the Tartan 
forwards prevented Duquesne from ever 
fighting back effectively. The rest of the 
period saw a large number of penalties and 
some great penalty-killing by the Tartan 
skaters. At one point in the period, 
Duquesne had a two-man advantage and 
could muster only one shot on goalie Jeff 
Hart. Mike Ken worthy scored later in the 
period on a rebound, allowing CMU to 
return to the dressing room with a 3 to 0 
lead.
Action in the final period was high
lighted by a brilliant CMU defense which 
gave Duquesne an unexpected pounding. 
Duke shooters were continually harassed 
and forced to shoot long. CMU scored two 
more goals before the end of the game, one
Goalie Jeff Hart in action
by Eastman and the other by Callaway. 
The final goal was the prettiest of the 
game, coming from a drop-pass by 
Kenworthy, drawing off the Duquesne 
defense and allowing Callaway to rifle the 
puck into the opposite corner of the net.
The Tartans are now the team to beat. 
Their best performances of the season were 
the last two against Penn State and 
Duquesne. Both were expected to be tough 
opponents. The CMU defense has never 
looked better. Jeff Hart, in goal, has been 
scored on only once in two flames. The
forwards are passing and shooting better 
than at any time in the season. The Tartans 
are now tied for first place with Pitt. Both 
teams have 14 points. CMUs record is 6 
wins, no losses, and 2 ties - the only un
defeated team in the league. The next 
home game is against St. Vincents on Feb
ruary 4. Look at the hockey posters for 
further information.
'Oh, and one more note of interest. CMU 
will be participating in a hockey tourna
ment upcoming at the Civic Arena. The 
date is February 18; that is a Sunday night.
Campus Camera Headquarters 
FOR ALL YOUR 
PHOTOGRAPHIC NEEDS
Film
Processing  Equipment
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount on Most Items
begins when the Phys Ed coaches receive a 
list from the Admissions Office giving the 
names of potential freshmen and an indica
tion of the high school sports they part
icipated in. A check is then made to see if 
their grades are good enough to warrant 
admission to CMU. Haynes stresses that no 
exception is made for any athlete, no 
matter how skillful, if he is not aca
demically qualified for admission along 
with the rest of his peers. Assuming he is 
qualified, his name and school are sent to a 
regional alumni advisor. The Advisor will 
contact the high school coach and scout 
the player. If the coaches feel he will be an 
asset to the sports program he will be 
approached through the Phys Ed 
Department.
There are two selling points through 
which they attempt to convince him to 
attend school here. First, the high aca
demic reputation of CMU and then, the 
fact that he may participate in the 
intra-collegiate sports program from his 
freshman year; if qualified. Haynes empha
sized that no athletic scholarships are 
offered. This rule applies for all the teams 
in our conference. Said Haynes, If this 
doesnt sell the potential student. President 
Cyert will personally write to the potential 
super star and invite him to CMU. Haynes 
feels that Cyerts cooperation is often 
enough to convince the borderline
candidate to decide in favor of CMU.
In speaking of the type of athlete we 
seek Haynes describes him as a student 
who wants to participate in sports and also 
get a better education. He feels that the 
coaches have the ability to produce 
winning temas, and supports his staff 
entirely in their efforts. If the recruiting 
program is successful and new talent is 
brought in, Haynes is hopeful that CMU 
will have a winning season. A winner is 
the best medicine there is, but you cant 
have wins if you dont have horses.
Viruses werent even known 14) exist 
until 1900 and, since then, researchers have 
found them to be the cause of measles, 
mumps, rabies, smallpox, yellow fever and 
poliomyelitis and the suspected cause of a 
number of cancers. The January SCIENCE 
DIGEST reports on how medical research 
is developing a growing arsenal of antiviral 
drugs and is making real progress against 
the viruses that cause tuberculosis, 
luekemia and even the common cold. Some 
of these drugs are already in use in other 
parts of the world and others will be ready 
as soon as their side effects are eliminated.
The HAL computer in the movie 
2001 was not that far ahead of its time. 
According to scientists reporting in the 
January SCIENCE DIGEST, we already 
have computers now with many of HALs 
capabilities, and it is not unlikely that by 
2001 they may exceed those abilities.
Two Locations 
OAKLAND-3711 Forbes Avenue 
SHADYSIDE5432 Walnut Street
Phone: 683-2181 
Phone: 683-8900
ABORTION
INFORMATION 
ABORTION GUIOANCE
An Abortton can be arranged mtttwn 24 
boon and you can ratum homa tfca lama day you iaav
CALL TOLL FREE
(800)523-4436
A Non Pro* Ortanuation 
oean 7 day  *

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-THE TARTAN-Tuesday, January 30, 1973
A Zacko Production 
Produced by Ashley Kozak
si L vi e  * i
Side 1: 
EAGLE EYE
Terry Shaddick
CAN I SEE YOU
Terry Shaddick
LINDA
Tony Lukyn
WHIP WHEEL
Terry Shaddick
THE DRIVER'S ENGINE
Terry Shaddick
Directed by: Ashley Kozak Recorded at: CBS Studios, Whitfield Street, London
Side 2:
COULDNT POSSIBLY BE
Terry Shaddick
NICE AND EASY
Terry Shaddick
DEAR OH DEAR
Terry Shaddick
SILVER
Terry Shaddick
THETREE
Terry Shaddick
The selections are ASCAP.
Engineering: Mike Ross Mastering by: Jack Ashkinazy
Personnel: Terry ShaddickLead guitar, acoustic guitar, lead vocals/ Tony LukynElectric and acoustic pianos, clavinet, vibes, organ, 
mellatron, vocalslead vocal on Linda"/Berkeley WrightLead guitar, vocals/Kevin McCarthyRhythm guitar, vocalslead 
vocal on The Drivers Engine''/Bernard HagleyBass guitar, flute/Paul FrancisDrums, percussion
Cover des*gn: Teresa Alfien/Front cover art: Bob Schulenberj/Mucha/ 197! CSS, Inc./ 17S CIS, Inc /Manufactured by Epic Recordi/CIS, Inc 751 W Si Street, New York City/ $ Epic, Marca Rej
The C-MU Activities Board 
Presents
Concert
TRANQUILITY
From England
Friday, February 9, 8:30 p.m.
FREE... With CMU ID $*.50 Without: 
Tickets at Skibo Information Desk
