Weekly 
Bulletin 
Board<- 
See Page 2
Basketball
Team Splits 
First Two 
See Page 5
VOL. 49No. 11Sei,.i .of.frfi nt fisynmn,h wTUES., DEC. 6, 1955
Annual Military Ball i,,e ..J Open On Council4Features Brad Hunt
Brad Hunt and his orchestra will be featured at this years Mili
tary Ball held Saturday, December 10, in the mens gymnasium de
spite whatever the tickets, which were printed wrong, might say. Brad 
Hunt is a familiar face at Tech, having played for numerous all-school
dances in the past five years. His#--------------------------------------------------
aggregation has appeared at many
supper clubs and hotels in the 
Tri-State area^ including the 
Gateway Plaza, William Penn 
Hotel and Vogue Terrace.
? During intermission, the HonBrad Hunt
Military Ball Bandleader
orary Cadet Colonel, who will 
serve in this office for the re
mainder of the school year, will 
be crowned. Then she will per
form her first duty and privilege 
as queen in leading the Grand 
March. The girls elected to the 
court in last Thursdays election 
tire Sandi Ruben, Ginny Tennant, 
and Caroletta Valencourt. One of 
these three will be Queen next 
Saturday. The other two will be 
Honorary Lieutenant Colonels.
The military ball is an all
school formaleither uniform or 
tuxedo should be worn. As al
ways, it is requested that the girls 
do not wear corsages. All ROTC 
men who are planning to attend 
^he ball are excused from wear
ing their uniforms this Thursday 
in order that they might get them 
cleaned and pressed.
Tickets will be on sale every 
day this week in Skibo 11:30-1:30 
from any member of Pershing 
Rifles or Scabbard and Blade, at 
Evening School Registrars office, 
or at the door Saturday night. The 
tickets cost $2.50.
CFP Considers 
Semi-Organization 
Of Spring Rushing
The comparatively disorganized 
nature of spring rushing has led 
CFP to consider an orientation 
assembly around mid-semester. 
Actually, it would be a reorienta
tion for those students who have 
become fraternally inclined this 
Past semester and intend to 
pledge in the spring.
The ever popular motion de
fining the terms of social proba
tion was rejected this past week. 
It would seem that discussion in 
chapter meetings was the decid
ing factor.
Economic reform of the frater
nity, rent system is in the 
gfffing. This was to be expect
ed, with new fraternity dorms 
blossoming forth. However, 
[Continued on page 8]
Council Meeting 
To Discuss New 
Carnegie Union
On November 30, 1955, the Stu
dent Council of Carnegie Tech 
held their weekly meeting. Presi
dent Ed Pasierb called the assem
bly to order, attendance was tak
en, and the minutes from the last 
meeting were distributed.
Reports from several committees 
followed. The budget chairman an
nounced that almost all the cam
pus organizations have handed in 
their tentative budgets for the 
school year 1956-57,, After study
ing his duties for Student Council, 
the budget chairman stated that 
several organizations such as hon
orary societies do not come under 
his jurisdiction, and so these 
groups will not be required to sub
mit budgets to Student Council. 
The newly acquired budgets of the 
Thistle, Panel of Americans, and 
Varsity C Club were submitted to 
the Council for approval.
Campus Chest
The next report was from Cam
pus Chest. Money is still coming 
in and no definite tabulations can 
be made, but at this point Car
negie Tech has reached 44% of its 
goal with a total of $2137. The 
official report of Campus Chest 
will not be ready until February, 
1956.
The two most important points 
of business concerned the new 
student union and the revision of 
the Student Council constitution.
Dr. Strick, faculty advisor To 
Student Council, announced that 
at the next meeting on December 
7, 1955, information about plans 
for the new Union will be given 
to the members of the Council.
[Continued on page 8]
The elections for Student Coun
cil representatives will be held 
on December 20. The nine open- 
ings to be filled are as follows: 
four in Engineering and Science, 
one in Fine Arts, one in Margaret 
Morrison, one in printing man-, 
agement, one in industrial man
agement and an assistant secre
tary. Only a junior secretarial 
major may hold the latter office.
Petitions and information 
sheets concerning procedure for 
candidacy in the election can be 
obtained in the Dean of Mens 
office and are to be returned 
there.
At the present time the repre
sentatives from Engineering and 
Science are Kerry, Aquadro, Ron 
Draper, Ed Feigenbaum and Syl
vester Guerrini; from Margaret 
Morrison, Janet Bishop; and from 
Fine Arts, Larry Wilbur and 
Allan Anderson.
Campus Chest 
Drive Successful
It was announced last week by Edward Pasierb, treasurer of the 
Campus Chest Organization and President of Student Council, that as 
of December 1 the 1955-56 Campus Chest Drive on the Tech Campus 
had netted $2494,78almost 200% of last years total contributions and
-----------------------------------------------?500% of those of the 1953 campaign.
Still more contributions and 
pledges are expected to be turnedUMOC Contest
Alpha Phi Omega is again 
sponsoring an Ugly Man on 
Campus contest this year dur
ing the week of December 12. 
Those wishing to enter are re
quested to submit a 5 x 7 pho
tograph along with the name 
of the sponsoring organization, 
if any, to the Dean of Mens 
Office by Friday, December 9.
New Essay Contest Announced 
For E&S,.IM Apd PM Students
An essay contest with a different angle is the one currently being 
sponsored by the division of Humanistic and Social Studies at Tech. 
This contest not only is limited to Tech Students, but is further limit
ed to undergraduate students in E & S, IM, and PM. These restrictions
---------------------------------------------------------?are expressly designed to encour1; age people who might otherwise
Seniors
All seniors who have not 
had their pictures taken at 
Gimbels should make an ap
pointment to do so in Skibo 
between 11:30 and 1:30 on 
Monday, Tuesday, and Wed
nesday, December 5, 6 and 7. 
It is recommended that sen
iors in the Pittsburgh area try 
to schedule their pictures 
during the week immediately 
after Christmas. Gimbels feel 
that this way they can pro
vide the rnqpt adequate serv
ice to all students. If you can
not keep your appointment, be 
sure to call the studio to can
cel it and make a new one.
Dorm Ren tal Increase 
Necessary By Fall 956
Ini keeping with Carnegie policy of operating dormitories on a 
self-liquidating plan so that on the one hand no profit is made, and 
on the other hand that educational funds are not used to support 
dormitories, it will be necessary to increase the room rates for un
dergraduate mens dormitories in* 
the fall of 1956. According to 
sound financing principles at least 
a modest sum need be accumulated 
for future rehabilitation of cer
tain dormitories and replacement 
of others. Under present condi
tions it is never possible to pay for 
college dormitories from rental in
come; a substantial portion of the 
cost must come from a gift (as 
with Donner Hall). Consequently 
the amount put away for future 
expenditures is never enough, and 
Tech has been falling dangerously 
behind.
The overall increase averages 
$24 per year per student. This 
makes the new medium dormitory 
room rental $210. Increases are 
graded from $14 to $44 a year, the 
lowest increases being effective on 
the lowest cost rooms. There will 
therefore be a wide range of rental 
rates ($140 to $350) to meet the 
budgets of students desiring rooms.
Rates will still be in line with 
those of comparable colleges. The 
school realizes that this increase 
will add somewhat to the financial 
burden of students and their par
ents but the action has been de
layed until it now becomes im
perative rather than merely ad
visable.
A schedule of the new rates fol
lows:
Henderson Hall Per college year
Double suite ...............................
.. $260, 284, and $310 per man
Triple suite..........$224 per man
Welch Hall
Double suite ..............................
.$300, $324. and $350 per man 
Boss and McGill Halls
Single room..........$261 per man
Double suite___$240 per man
Double room ..............................
...........$190 and $224 per man
Triple su>te...........$200 per man
~oi!iinu(?d on page 8J
in to the Campus Chest within the 
next few weeks which will ulti
mately bring the total contribu
tions for this year much in excess 
of the current total. The marked 
increase in participation and sup
port of the Campus Chest wi?ain 
the past three years is definite 
evidence of the success of the re
cent drives on the Tech campus.
1575 students are reported to 
have contributed to the drive this 
year thus giving a total of almost 
50% participation up to this time. 
The average per capita contribu
tion was $1.58. Judging from 
these reports, the Tech Campus 
Chest Coordinating Committee, 
headed by Jan Bishop, Campus 
Chest Chairman for this year, is 
confident that the competition 
with the University of Pittsburgh 
in the Campus Chest drives on the 
two campuses will result in a 
definite victory for CIT. As yet, 
the Pitt reports are not available 
for publication.
Future reports will be made 
from time to time in the Tartan 
as to the progress of the Chest 
and immediately following the 
meeting of the Chest Advisory 
Board on December 13 a report 
will be puslished concerning the 
percentage of the funds which will 
be alotted to the various agencies
feel that their literary offerings 
would be inferior to those pf Fine 
Arts or MMCC students woh have 
had more-of this sort of training.
Another distinct feature of this 
contest is the fact that subject 
matter is of greater importance 
than exceptional writing ability.
The topic is to be a study of a 
current problem in a local com
munity, the Tech community, or j included in this years Chest.
state and national affairs. This is j ________________
a much wider range than that 
presented last summer when the 
contest was first initiated. The an
nouncement at that time was ap
parently almost universally ig
nored, due to the fact that many 
students did not realize the unique
ness of this competition. There
fore, the contest has been re
opened at this time to additional ' iT , . *ast week when senior art stu-pntrip5! Ii dents at Tech completed pictorial 
Preliminary Entries designs for packaging a populaOn the new schedule, the prej household product, 
liminary entry is due b}' February ' rp.   . .
15, 1956. This consists of an essay ! H  uniqu<; ProJec was the stu___,_________, i dent s own idea. Seeking a broadP&D Students 
Unique Project 
Designed In 3D
The aims of industry and edu
cation stepped toward integration
of 600 words presenting the prob
lem to be investigated and some 
attached information which will 
provide the basis for the longer 
paper. Eight finalists will be an!
er base for their work, they ask
ed their teacher, associate pro
fessor of painting and design, 
Howard L. Worner, for an assignnounced by March 1, and only | Gnt "a th dimensional problem. After discussion, the groupthese people will write the final 
essays. These will be due by Aprildecided that a consumer package
30, and winners will be announced | !^T_0VJde.. of Workin
at Carnival time.
The whole point of having pre
liminary entries limited to 600 
words plus attached evidence is so
out their design ideas.
Agency Helps 
Professor Worner presented the 
idea to Don Lathrop, head of the
that students may compete at the | department at a Pittsburgh 
cost of only a bare minimum of adverltisi,ng aency. K e t c h u m,
thought and writing, with the obli
gation to extend themselves only 
if selected as finalists and so given 
a clear chance at a substantial 
prize. The nature of the prelimin
ary entry should often put a studeht with a good idea, who has 
never do;ie particularly well in
MacLeod and Grove. Studying the 
problem, Mr. Lathrop came up 
with the redesign of an aluminum 
foil package for Calgon, a com
mercial water softener.
Before the project got under 
way, the students were briefed as 
though it were an actual comtheme-w'riting, into the finals in j mercial design they were producplace of a student who writes well j ing. Then, in numerous trips to 
but has a topic of much less promj the Carnegie campus, Mr. Lathise. . rop followed the progress of the
Groups May Enter student's sketches. On one of
Another point is the fact that these trips he brought along a a 
entries will be open not only to aSency marketing expert, . Me 
individuals, but also to teams of! Lester Gallagher, who outlined 
two or three as joint investigators ! actual marketing problems inand authors. This possibility should j vlved in the design and gav 
LContinued on Page 8] J tCowtinned on Page II

---------------------------------------------------

Page 1CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 6, 1955
Home Ec Club
The popular annual Christmas 
Dinner will be given by the Home 
Economics Club on Thursday, De
cember 8 at 5:30 p.m. in Mar
garet Morrison Recreation Hall. 
The buffet dinner, prepared and 
served by the seniors in the foods 
and nutrition section, wil be fol
lowed by a program with a Christ
mas theme. Mr. Cassell, guest 
speaker from Mt. Lebanon Pres
byterian Church, will give views 
of White Christmas in Foreign 
Lands.
Tickets for the dinner may be 
obtained from members of the 
Home Economics Club. Admission 
ranges from $.25 for members to 
$1 .00 for non-members. All Tech 
students and faculty are cordially 
invited to attend.
The Club also wants to an
nounce to all prospective cookie 
buyers that decorated Christmas 
cookies and pecans will go on sale 
n December 13 from 11:30 to 1:30 
in Margaret Morrison entrance 
hall.
Student Recital
A student recital will be pre
sented on Thursday evening, De
cember 15, at 8:30 p.m. by the 
music department, in Exhibition 
Hall, Fine Arts Building. The pro
gram will feature:
Sonatine ................................... Ravel
Charmaine Bishkoff, piano
Cariations Concertantes .............
................................... Mendelssohn
Anne Houggy, cello 
Hugh Young, piano 
Le Tombeau de Couperin... Ravel 
Jo Ann Relf, piano 
Sonata In D for Two Pianos
K448 ................................... Mozart
Millicent and Hazel Hay, piano
Three Pieces......................Honeggar
Lesley Herdt, piano 
Free tickets may be obtained in 
the music department office, Room 
159, College of Fine Arts.
Student Council
Student Council will sponsor an 
open discussion concerning the 
new student union, on December 
7 at 4:30 in Porter Hall. All stu
dents and members from each 
organization on campus are in
vited to attend. At this meeting 
the faculty will present tentative 
plans and all the suggestions re
ceived up to this time.
Orchestra Recital
The music department will pre
sent a concert by the String Or
chestra, Goesta Andreasson con
ducting, on Sunday, December 11, 
at 8:30 p.m. in the Exhibition 
Hall. The program will include: 
Concerto Grosso in G Minor, Op.
6, No. 6.................................Handel
Sonata in A Minor for Cello and
String Orchestra .............Vivaldi
Serenade Eine kleine Nacht
musik K. 525...............Mozart
Two Waltzes, Op. 54...........Dvorak
Capriol Suite for String Or
chestra ............................ Warlock
Student soloists being featured 
in Handels Concerto Grosso axe: 
Donald Mushalko, violin; Ray 
Ponzo, violin; Louise Haze'n, cello; 
and Edmund Ladouceur, continuo. 
Miss Hazen will also be a soloist 
in the Vivaldi sonata.
Students, faculty and guests are 
cordially invited to attend the 
concert. Free tickets may be ob
tained in the Music Office, Room 
159, College of Fine Arts.
YM-YW Dinner
Carnegie Techs YMCA, YWCA, 
and International Club, in con
junction with comparable organi
zations from Pitt, will hold a 
Christmas party and dinner on 
Friday, December 9. The party 
will begin with dinner at 5:00 
oclock in the Recreation Room of 
Morewood Gardens and will cost 
$.90.
Entertainment, as planned by 
the International Club, will begin 
after dinner and continue until the 
party ends at midnight. Anyone 
wishing to attend should notify 
any of the sponsoring organiza
tions by Wednesday, December 7.
Christmas Assembly
This year the traditional Christ
mas assembly will be held on 
Tuesday, December 20 at 11:30 in 
the Little Theatre of the Fine Arts 
building. The program will include 
anthems by both the Carnegie 
Student Chorus and the Cameron 
Choir. The main message will be 
delivered by Reverend Hugh S. 
Clark, pastor of the Church of the 
| Redeemer of Squirrel Hill.
Scotch and Soda
Scotch and Soda is looking for 
students to fill two administrative 
positions for this years show 
business manager and purchasing 
agent. The business manager 
must be either a junior or a 
sophomore and will be in charge 
of ticket sales and the budget. 
The purchasing agent will have 
the responsibility of purchasing 
all necessary materials for the 
show. Both positions provide in
teresting and invaluable experi
ence as well as plenty of fun.
Will all interested students 
send a letter of application, stat
ing qualifications, to Scotch and 
Soda, Box 258 intraschool mail, 
no later than Friday, December 
16.
Pi Delta Epsilon
Pi Delta Epsilon is sponsoring 
a publications conference to be 
held Saturday, December 10, in 
the Union beginning at 9:15 a.m. 
Editors of the Tartan, Technical, 
Thistle, and Scot will in turn dis
cuss their aims, policies, and 
problems. A general discussion of 
publication problems will follow. 
At 11:30, lunch will be served.
After lunch discussion groups 
of editors, associate and features 
editors, business and advertising 
managers, and production andart 
directors will meet separately to 
discuss problems peculiar to their 
offices. Later, editors may call 
general meetings of their staffs to 
evaluate and summarize the days 
activities. ,
All members of Pi Delta Ep
silon and persons designated by 
the editors are invited to attend.
Thistle
Anyone desiring to order a 
1956 Thistle may do so this 
Thursday, December 8. in Ski
bo from 11:30 to 1:00.
Student Council Offers Worthy 
Opportunity For The Ambitious
By Betsy Kuhn
What better way is there to learn citizenship and ways to tackle 
community problems than by participating in a governing Student 
Council whose responsibilities include overseeing Techs campus ac
tivities, scheduling social events for organizations under Student
Councils financial responsibility^---------------------------------------------------------
perpetuation of school spirit, cus
New Play For TV 
By Gladys Sellinidt
Gladys Schmitt, author and 
Carnegie Tech professor, will bow 
into television next month with 
the presentation of an original 
script.
Miss Schmitt, professor of 
English in the College of Fine 
Arts and best-selling author 
(David the King, Confessors of 
the Name Alexandria), will have 
her first play, The Unwelcomed, 
dramatized over NBC on Matinee.
The drama, to be performed 
sometime during Christmas week, 
is set in Palestine during the year 
of Christs birth. The Unwel
comed was written by Miss 
Schmitt in collaboration with her 
husband, Simon Goldfield.
Miss Schmitt, a graduate of the 
University of Pittsburgh, joined 
the staff here in 1942.
toms, and traditions, and con
ducting all-school elections. Stu
dent Council has the power to au
thorize and revoke constitutions 
of student organizations excluding 
those of Dorm Councils, Intramur
al Athletic activities, and local 
chapters of nationally affiliated 
professional, scholastic, and so
cial fraternal organizations.
These functions can be made 
possible only if Techs student 
body takes the opportunity pre
sented to them and shows interest 
through participation in Sttident 
Council.- Introduction to the prob
lems which confront this govern
ing body and mutual cooperation 
in learning to solve them will not 
only be beneficial to Student 
Council, but will also prepare the 
student to take part in his com
munity with knowledge and ex
perience.
Student Council conducts its 
weekly meeting according to the 
standard Roberts Rules for Par
liamentary Procedure. Member
ship in Student Council is estab
lished with one representative for 
every 200 students per college, in 
addition to the MMCC Secretary 
and those people selected by elev
en specified organizations. 27 
members discuss, vote, and ap
prove new policies affecting Techs 
activities. But this does not mean 
that meetings are limited to elect
ed members only; all students are 
invited to attend, so that they may 
understand the functions and 
duties of the various representa
tives.
Students not only have the 
privilege of expressing their views 
openly to Council, but they are 
also allowed the power of initia
tive. That is, by obtaining a peti
tion and fifty signatures of full
time day students, a student may 
require the council to take a vote 
on any matter desired within two 
weeks from the time the section 
is presented to the President of 
the Council. Despite these oppor
tunities, few Tech students take 
the time to attend meetings to 
learn how they can take part in 
campus life as a whole.
New Constitution
Because the organizational 
structure of Student Council does 
not appear to meet with the sat
isfaction of the student body, 
members are urging complete re
vision of the constitution which 
will make its appearance cn or 
near February 1. At this time it 
will go before the Leadership Con
ference, followed by presentation 
to the entire student body at a 
general assembly.
In the meantime, elections of 
new Council members will be held 
within the next few weeks. For 
this reason the student body 
should take particular care in 
choosing candidates, for they will 
continue to determine organiza
tional policies in the future. Par
ticipation in Student Council by 
Techs undergraduate body will 
assure them a definite hand in 
formation of policies pertinent to 
their interests.
Residue 
And Repartee
Lest there tie a popular mis
conception on campus that motion 
pictures today are bigger andbetter than ever, the Film Arts 
Society last Thursday presented 
the Douglas Fairbanks Sr. spec
tacle of 1924 The Thief of Bag
dad (magic city of the East, ac
cording to the captions). If noth
ing else, this extravaganza must 
have dispelled the notion that 
Cinemascope, Vista-Vision and 
Cecille B. DeMille are entirely re
sponsible for the casts-of-thousands school of the motion pic
ture medium. Probably the big
gest production Since Griffiths 
Birth of a Nation, this twomillion dollar film went a long 
way toward proving that America 
does everything in a big, splashy 
way, as much in the twenties as 
now.
If not entirely accurate in its
historical aspect, and if some
what incredible even as a fantasy, 
The Thief of Bagdad is infor
mative in showing part of the 
evolution of Hollywood sensa
tionalism and the star system.
Although a present-day audi
ence finds the over-acting and 
trite dialogue highly amusing (I 
can endure a thousand deaths, or 
any torture, but I cannot bear the1 
sight of thy tears), we must not 
come to the conclusion that all 
of this is peculiar to a bygone 
era. One needs only to think of 
some . of Hollywoods contempor a r y products featuring Mr. 
Granger, Mr. Lancaster, Mr. Tay
lor et al, to realize that in 30 
years we may be wondering how 
an audience of some intelligence 
could endure such trash. The( 
flashing teeth, the bar^d che^' 
along with the other accoutre
ments of the swashbuckling 
stereotype exhibited in this film 
are still with us panoramically, 
cinemascopically, stereophonically, etc.
Nevertheless, one must give 
credit to Mr. Fairbanks for his 
[Continued on page 3]
Loans
All students needing long
term loans for the spring se
mester should file their appli
cations in Room 154 Adminis
tration Hall by December 19.
Why the editor 
of a great newspaper 
reads The Readers Digest
The Society of Automotive En
gineers has been organized to 
serve two purposes  to create 
new interests in the automotive 
industry and to promote friend
ship among students*
STUDENTS-BUY WHOLESALE
Thousands of Nationally Advertised Products at 30-70% 
discount. Name brands like Benrus, Buiova, Remington, 
Parker, Smith-Corona, Gruen, etc. A $1.00 deposit is re
quired for the large wholesale catalogue ($1.00 ;s refund
ed with very first purchase).
STUDENTS WHOLESALE ASSOC. 
2436 Hawkins Royal Oak. Michigan
,rTlit> Reader s Digest publishes controversial and impor
tant articles. regardless of the pressures that may prevail. 
This is a valid reason for the respect with uhich The 
Readers Digest is read by millions like myself, not only 
in the United States but throughout the free world
Ogden Reid. President and Editor, New York Herald Tribune. Inc.
In December Reader's 
Digest dont miss:
CONDENSATION FROM THE $4.50 BOOK: THE 
MIRACLE OF LOURDES. The cures at this 
Catholic shrinecures of the hopelessly sick and 
Crippledhave stirred controversy for years. Now 
a Protestant (who lived in this French town, ques
tioned doctors, nurses and patients) verifies facts 
about Lourdes and its miracles.
HOW TO WRITE FASTER. Want to double your writing 
speed in a short time? Heres an easy system of 
word abbreviation that can help you make full, leg
ible notes in classrooms, at lectures; take messages 
over the phonemay even help you land a job.
MYSTERY OF EASTER ISLAND. On a remote Pacific 
isle stand giant, stone-age statuessome weighing 
30 tons. Who carved them? How did they get there? 
Story of one of the worlds most baffling mysteries.
REDISCOVERING AMERICA. A real supermarket, Negro 
major-league ball players, luxury motels, do-ityourself servantless homesPaul Gallico tells the 
amazing revolution that greets an American return
ing to his country after 15 years abroad.
Get December Readers Digest 
at your newsstand today-only 25i
38 articles of lasting interest, including the best from leading 
magazines and current books, condensed to save your time.
A

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 6, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage J
United We Sing
United We Sing, a world-sized, 
admission-free program  one of 
rare quality and stirring appeal 
is produced once a year at Christ
mas in Carnegie Music Hall. This 
year it is set for Sunday, Decem
ber 11, at 2:00 and again at 4:00 
p.m.
Do you ask, Just >what is it?** 
Its really a number of things. 
First, its a festival in which 
twenty Heritage Choruses carol 
their traditional favorites in as 
many as seventeen different lang
uages, and in which the same 
choruses also combine into a single 
massive choir of 600 voices for an
thems which soar to their climax 
in Handels Hallelujah chorus. 
Thenall the 2,000 voices in the 
hall join in the glad crescendos of 
First Noel, or the heart-search
ing diminuendos of Silent Night. 
From beginning to end, the events 
of the Festival maintain a stately 
rhythm which effectively dispels 
every impulse to interrupt with 
| applause. A mood develops in 
I which hands are stilled as surely 
as hearts are stirred.
Thus the two great assemblages 
j transmute two short hours into 
' timeless onesso profoundly joyous a thing is it to re-tell the 
never-old Christmas Story to one 
another, to oneself, and to the 
whole world. The entire Festival 
Program goes on the air (WDUQ 
Dial 91.5) both on the day itself 
! and at 9:00 p.m. on Christmas 
; Day, it is also recorded for use by 
j Radio Free Europe and Voice of 
America.
Panel of Americans, organized standing among students at Tech 
on Tech campus in 1950, serves to and .in the surrounding commupromote brotherhood and undernities.
(Author of -Barefoot Boy Wit!i Cheek," etc.)
Mary Morris Productions
Mary Morris, one of the out
standing actresses in the Ameri
can Theatre, has announced plans 
to put her theatre at the First 
Unitarian Church on a more per
manent basis. In the past two 
years, her experimental produc
tions of Eurip'des The Trojan 
Women, Alan Patons Cry, The 
Beloved Country, and Eugene 
ONeills Mourning Becomes 
Electra have won acclaim both 
here and in New York. With the 
cooperation of the pastor of the 
pastor of the church, Irving Mur
ray, Miss Morris will present 
three productions this year.
In An Evening of Poetry and 
Drama, she will be assisted by 
the English actor-director, Peter 
A. Bucknell who is now a visiting 
lecturer at Carnegie Tech. It will 
play Tuesday and Wednesday, 
January 3 and 4. The other two 
productions, George Bernard 
Shaws Candida, and Henrick 
Ibsens Ghosts, are scheduled 
for February 1 and 2, and April 
4 arid 5, respectively.
Miss Morris has spent 40 years 
in the theatre from New York to 
London. Of the many famous roles 
she created, she is best known 
for her Abbie in ONeills Desire 
Under the Elms, and Victoria 
Van Bret in Elizabeth McFaddens 
Double Door. She is now a dra
ma instructor here at Tech.
Buhl Planetarium
Opening on December 1 in the 
Theater of the Stars was the tra
ditional holiday drama, The Star 
of Bethlehem. This sky show ex
plores the mysterious legends 
suriounding the star that have 
puzzled astronomers through the 
ages. The Planetarium heavens 
roll back through two hundred 
centuries to recreate the skies as 
they were over Palestine at the 
time of the first Christmas. Over 
a skyline setting ot that ancient 
city, the dramatic explanations 
for the star are portrayed visual
ly in the Planetarium theater. The 
shows finale is the shepherds 
tale of what he say as he watched 
from the hills above the town on 
the night of the first Christmas. 
Sky shows will be at 2:15 and 
8:30 p.m. weekdays; 11:00 a.m., 
2:15 and 8:30 p.m. Saturdays; and 
2:15, 4:15 and 8:30 p.m. Sundays, 
except on Christmas Day, when 
The Star of Bethlehem will be 
presented at 3:15 and 8:30 p.m.
THE GIFT HORSE
Today's column is about Christmas gift suggestions, and I 
suppose you think Ill begin by suggesting Philip Morris. Well, 
the jokes on you. Ill do no such thing. Why should I? Anyone 
with two brains to knock together knows that Philip Morris 
makes an absolutely smashing Christmas gift. Only a poor 
afflicted soul with atrophied taste buds needs to be told about the 
new Philip Morris; its bracing flavor; its freshness, lightness, 
pleasantness, gentleness; its truth, its beauty, its brotherliness 
in this discordant world of ours. So why should I waste time 
telling you what you already know?
Let us, instead, turn to less obvious gift suggestions. Heres 
one I bet you never thought of:
I Jfc Christmas is the best time of year, but it is also the beginning 
of winter. How about a gift that reminds one that though winter 
has come, spring is not far behind? I refer, of course, to Easter 
chicks. (Similarly, on Easter one can give Christmas chicks.)
Next, we take up the problem, common to all undergraduates, 
of trying to buy gifts when you have no money. To this dilemma 
I say^-Faugh! It is not the price of the gift that counts; it is the 
I sentiment behind it.
Take, for example, the case of Outerbridge Sigafoos. Outerbridge, a sophomore, finding himself without funds last Christ
mas, gave his girl a bottle of good clear water and a nice smooth 
^ock, attaching this touching message to the gift:
Heres some water 
And heres a rock,
1 love you, daughter,
Around the clock.
And the whole delightful gift cost Outerbridge less than a 
penny!
I 1 am compelled to report, however, that Outerbridges girl did 
not receive these offerings in the spirit in which they were 
tendered. In fact, she flew into a fit of pique, smashed the bottle 
I on the rock and stabbed Outerbridge with the jagged edge. But 
I Athe experience was not without value for Outerbridge. First, he 
discovered that the girl was not his type at all. Second, he learned 
how to make a tourniquet.
But I digress. Lets examine now a common complaint of 
I Christmas shoppers: What do you get for someone who has 
| everything?
To this I reply, Does he? Does he, for instance, have a 
b unicycle? A sled dog? A serf? A-burnoose? A hairball? A bung 
I starter? (The bung starter, incidentally, was invented by two 
I enormously talented men, Fred Bung and Otho Starter. Their 
I partnership thrived from the very start, and there is no telling 
1 what heights they might have risen had they not split up 
5 over a silly argument. It seems that Bung was a firm believer in 
I reincarnation; Starter was just as firm a disbeliever. Bung inI sisted so violently on the truth of reincarnation and Starter 
scoffed so positively that they finally decided to go their separate 
J ways. Singly, alas, the two fared badly. Starter gave up business 
i altogether, joined the army, and was killed at San Juan Hill in 
| 1898. He is today buried in Arlington National Cemetery. Bung 
1 drifted from job to job until he died of breakbone fever in
 Elizabeth, N. J., in 1902. He is today a llama in Uruguay.)
Max Sliulman. 1955
jjjifce makers of Philip Morris, sponsors of this column, beg leave to 
Hidd one more gift suggestion - MAX SHULMAIVS GUIDED TOUR 
I OF CAMPUS HUMOR, a collection of the funniest stuff ever written 
I on or about campus now on sale at your bookstore.
Symphony
The Pittsburgh Symphony Or
chestra, with William Steinberg 
conducting, offers a pair of con
certs this weekend, Friday night 
and Sunday afternoon, December 
9 and 11, at Syria Mosque, fea
turing a return appearance of the 
brilliant Polish violinist, Szymon 
Goldberg, who will play the 
beautiful but demanding Beetho
ven Violin Conceito. The second 
half of the program brings to 
Pittsburgh audiences for the first 
time the Symphony No. 10 by the 
contemporary Russian composer 
Dmitri Shostakovich.
Goldberg is an established fav
orite with Pittsburgh audiences, 
who gave him a deserved ova
tion when he played here \vit.h 
the Symphony last year. Wanda 
Landowska was his music mentor' 
arid~sent him from Warsaw fo 
Beilin at the age of nine to study 
with Carl Flesch. At 16 he was 
concertmaster of the Dresden 
Philharmonic and at 20 held the 
same high post with the Berlin 
Philharmonic.
He spent the war years as a 
prisoner of the Japs, and finally 
arrived in this country for a be
lated but triumphant debut in 
1948 at New Yorks Carnegie 
Hall. Since that time he has firm
ly established himself as one of 
the elite musicians of our cen
tury.
The Society of American Mili
tary Engineers advances know
ledge of military engineering and 
encourages future cooperation 
between military engineers and 
other branches of the armed 
services.
 Its Christmas, 
I Ebenezer! <
i?Time to Save...
Residue
[Continued from page 2]
stamina, courage, and endurance 
in seeking the hand of the daugh
ter of the Caliph of Bagdad. After 
going through the tortures of the 
damned, leaping over flames, 
killing monsters, riding an airborn Palamino, and wrestling 
with ten-foot sea creatures for 
twenty minutes underwater with
out an aqua lung, all our daring 
hero got for his labors was the 
princess (I thought her slave 
girls were better, myself), a fly
ing carpet and a weekend on the 
Isle of Wak. I guess there is no 
doubt that this 1924 answer to 
Ulysses substantiated its moral, 
Happiness must be earned.
The Film Arts Society will pre
sent the 1951 Jean Cocteau pro
duction of Melvilles Strange 
Ones with music by Vivaldi next 
Thursday, December 8, and on 
December 15, the 1936 German 
film Olympia with Norman McClaren short experimental films. 
Past showings have included 
Pabsts Kommeradschatt (Ger
many 1931); Mother (U.S. S. R. 
1926 by Pudovich) and others b^ 
Wagner, Eisenstein, and Dos 
Passos, Hemingway, and Thomp
son.
On Trips Home For The Holidays
Fairmont, W. Va........J2.75
Harrisburg, Pa............5.25
Indianapolis, Ind..........8.25
Mansfield, 0...............3.80
New York City......... 9.50
Philadelphia, Pa...........7.40
Scranton, Pa............ 6.95
St. Louis, Mo............13.45
Syracuse, N. Y............9.05
Washington, D. C....... 4.30
Youngstown, 0............1.60
GREYHOUND TERMINAI
Liberty Ave. and Grant St.
Phone: GRant 1-5700
Akron, O.............
Altoona, Pa.........
Albany, N. Y.......
Baltimore, Md. ...
Buffalo, N. Y........
Cincinnati, O.......
Cleveland, O.......
Columbus, O........
Chicago, III.........
Clarksburg, W. Va 
Detroit, Mich.......
IT IS NEVER 
TOO LATE . . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry 
| ALL WORK DONE ON OUR PREMISES]
Campus Cleaners

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 6, 1955
Editorial
Techs Financial
Limitations
At the risk of incurring the wrath of the 
administration, the faculty, the alumni, Pitt,
Pi Delta Epsilon, and the world in general, 
we are today tackling a somewhat ticklish 
subject which happens to interest us greatly.
For time interminable, Carnegie Tech has 
needed new facilities of one sort or another.
Within the past ten years, we have added the 
SIA building, an addition to EH, the Saxonburg center, Morewood Gardens, and Donner 
Hall. In addition, many outdated rooms have 
been remodeled and redecorated. We are 
soon going to see the first of the new frater
nity dorms, and although some say they will 
destroy the individuality of each fraternity, 
actually the only apparent elimination will 
lae the uniqueness of living quarters which is 
now supplied by the eccentricities of each 
of the more decrepit fraternity houses.
This is all fine, but by no means are our 
physical needs satisfied. A new union has 
been given first priority, and plans are pro
pressing more rapidly than plans on sueh 
matters usually do progress. Other construc
tions most often mentioned as being planned for the future 
are *a new library, an auditorium, an athletic field of our very 
own, and new facilities for drama and printing management.
Any Tech student who takes even a relatively detached 
interest in these projects wonders why we are moving so 
abominably slow toward their achievement. The aforemen
tioned Tech student, can, unless he is totally blind, see that 
Pitt is throwing up million dollar structures almost as fast 
as they can think of them, while we spend years evaluating 
needs which increase substantially during the time required 
to evaluate them.
The plain, cold facts are: we dont have the money to go 
ahead. Our neighbor is blessed with the acquaintance of many 
donors as generous as the benefactor of our Donner Hall. The 
problem seems to be: how can Carnegie Tech attract more 
donations of such magnitude?
First, we will discount the possibility of our ever rais
ing the monev without such outside interest. Tuition funds
LITTLE PI TV. "UH V T>ONT YOUySai
LOT5 OF NICE NEiO TOYS LIKE I T>O r*" 
UTTLET TECH:** CAUSE I DOKT HA VET A 
RICH 3>AM>r Q \ VINQ ME A IBi-ALLOWANCE:.
WRCT Schedule
Tuesday
5:00 p.m.Sign On, Best on 
Wax
6:00 p.m.Symphony at Six 
7:00 p.m.News 
7 15 p.m.Join the Navy 
7:30 p.m.Masterworks from 
France
8:00 p.m.Album of Favorites 
9:00 p.m.Music of the 
Masters
11:00 p.m.News, Night Train 
Wednesday 
5:00 p.m.Sign On, Best on 
Wax
6:00 p.m.Symphony at Six 
7:00 p.m.News 
7:15 p.m.Serenade in Blue 
7:30 p.m.211 Club 
8:00 p.m.Album Of Favorites 
9:00 p.m.Music of the 
Masters 
.m.News. Night Train
Thursday
p.m.Sign On, Best on 
Wax
p.m.Symphony at Six 
p.m.News
p.m.Stand By for Music 
p.m.The Mel Hayden 
Ensemble 
p.m.Album of Favorites 
p.m.Music of the 
Masters 
p.m.News, Night Train
Friday
p.m.Sign On, Best on 
Wax
p.m.-Symphony -fit Six 
p.m.News
>1:00 p
5:00
6:00
7:00
7:15
7:30
8:00
9:00
6:00
7:00
7:15 p.m.Guest Star 
7:30 p.m.Jam Session 
8:00 p.m.Album of Favorites 
9:00 p.m.Music of the 
Masters
11:00 p.m.News, Night Train
Saturday
.News/.Kaaio Merrimac *! 
.Spinner Sanctum 
.News, Night Train 
Sunday
.Sign On, News 
.Showcase of Show Tunes 
.Sunday Chapel 
-Sunday Pops 
Concert 
.Proudly We Hail 
.News
.Music from the 
Record Room 
.Casual 
.Casualty
.Album of Favorites'
.-Music of the 
Masters
11:00 p.m.  News, Night Train 
Monday 
5:00 p.m.Sign On, Best on 
Wax
Symphony at Six 
News >
Serenade in Blue 
Masterworks frorA 
France 
Album of Favorites 
Music of the 
Masters
11:00 p.m.News, Night Train
6:00
6:15
9:0011:00
1 :15 2.00
3:00
4.00
5:306:00
6:15
7:00
7:308:00
9:00
6:00
7.00
7:15
7:00
8:00
9:00
p.m
p.m
p.m
p.m
p.m 
p m
p.m
p.m.
p.m
p.m
p.m
p.m
p.m
p.m
p.m
p.m
p.m
p.m,
p.m
p.m
p.m
Notas De Un Oyente
Letters
Carnegies Tartan
Editor, The Tartan:
I would like to comment on something which has 
bothered me for quite some time. Although relative
ly* unimportant as far as world affairs go, it might 
be of interest to many of Techs students.
In the Student Handbook, issued each year to 
the incoming students, there is (and was last year) 
a paragraph concerning the Tartan which is used 
as the official school colors. In brief, it states that 
Andrew Carnegie, not being the heir to a Tartan, 
created his own; but since this was not available at 
the time the school was searching for suitable col
ors, the Cameron of Erracht Tartan was chosen in
stead.
This is indeed interesting, but erroneous. The
true story appears in the book Tartans of the Clans
and Families of Scotland, by Sir Thomas Innes of
, , _A_ , | Learnev, the Lord Lyon King of Armsthe officialcover about oO < of the running expenses ana the interest . ~  . , cr | registrar of arms and Tartans tor Scotland. Iheiefrom our $30,000,000 endowment fund provides the remainder. j are two entries which should be of interestthose 
Obviously, this fund cant be touched; in fact, the returns on Carnegie and  Cameron of Erracht. 
from it are ceasing to be sufficient to covef rising operating Carnegie: The Carnegie Tartan goes back to 
expenses Jocelyn de Ballinhard, living in 1203 in the lands
. of Carrynegy. Although the direct line perished,Alumni relations are presently at a high level, due to the the title and Tartan were passed down throUgh
increased activity of the alumni office, and fraternity alumni | a second son of a Duke of Carnegie. At a later date
relations are high due to the need for help in the new dorm i the title passed to a cousin oi these indirect descendprojects. Despite this and the fact that alumni contributions I antsThe is based on that of McDonnell of
,, , . . ,. ,. ,, , ! Glengarrv, the present form being brought into useare continually increasing, there has been no indication that .  ^in 1715. Andrew Carnegie of Skibo, the multi-such contributions will ever provide enough funds for major j millionaire and philanthropist, born in Dunfermline,
By Luis de la Macorra
Reading through a current magazine I found the 
following guide and I thought that it might be of 
some help to my readers, so I am including it here. 
To impress and ultimately effect a conquest of a 
Taurus (April 21-May 20) woman take her to 
quaint and interesting little restaurants, where the 
food is good, the music soft, the lights low, and the 
menu is written in French. She likes to be swept* ' 
off her feet. So, sometimes give her an exotic little 
gift. Always kiss a Taurian goodnight on the first 
date.
Cancer (June 21-July 22) women have wander
ing eyes and are very changeable as to affections. 
The way to effectively handle a Cancer girl is to 
make it appear ^you also have roving eyes and 
changeable affections. Impress her with the fact 
that you have other feminine interests; that she is 
not the only pebble on the beach. They like to be^ 
seen with men who are tops with other women. Also 
Cancer women like to be dominated a little. So oc
casionally, when ?he asks Why? about something 
you think she should do, just reply, Because I 
say so.
Virgo (Aug. 23-Sept. 22) women are perfection
ists. They habitually correct the grammar and pro
nunciation o others. They also strive to make a 
man over to suit their ideas of what he should be. 
So if you are satisfied with the way you are now, 
dont let yourself be caught by a Virgo woman.
So for the present time, hasta la vista and buena 
suerte. ... 
founded the Pittsburg (spelled in the book with
out the h) steelworks, and with his wealth es
tablished the Carnegie Free Libraries and Scot
tish Universities Students' Trust.
Cameron of Erracht: What is known as the 
Erracht Cameron Tartan was specially designed
projects.
' Dr. W arner has made a complete survey of the whole 
situation and presented a written statement to the trustees.
This states the definite needs and includes some careful esti
mates of the funds needed, which amount to several million 
dollars. Assumedlv, the trustees, or somebody, are still work1 for the 79th (Regiment) Cameron Highlanders by
ing on this problem of how to get us some money to work j Mrs> Cameron of Erracht (mother of Colonel Sir .U1 ; Allan Cameron of Brracht, who founded the Regiwith as soon as possible. ; mcn, in n93), a daughter oi (a) acDonnel . . .,
W e realize the problem and are just as anxious to see it | by blending the tartan of the MacDonalds with that
solved as anybody else. It has not been the intent of this ediof the Camerons.
torial to criticize the action (or lack of action) which is going 11 is interesting to note that she used her
on, but merely to explain the situation as we see it to some j,a, lan' rem<>vln* ,wo of its s"'ipes and in,roducin*
who mav not see it.
>tft
OFFICES: Carne*j* Cnion. 5075 Forbes Street. Pitisbui'ih 13. Pa. Telephon 
Ml-nuio I-<557; after hour 2-&C-1G, for advertising and auojcriptiur.
r*e* call SChenley 1-83C1. Published wcesly durinn the achool year except 
eel'davs s-id examination periods bj the *tuderu oi Carnegie Instrtwt o' Tech. 
cli'gy. Pittsburgh VS. Pa. ^
Kdit*r-in-Clsief ...............................................................................ttoi>ert RuaaeU
Bttino* Manager ............................ ................ Vic Shiry
Kcwi FdiUr ................................................ ..................................................................................Marjo Ku>*
K part* (.dit >r. .....................................................................................1 on* W t (M
Copy Fd to/ ............................................................................................................................-. Pichard fox
Feature C'USor ......................................................... ...............Etcphasi MarKaj
Entered an e-'on-J clo matter on Oc^T>cr 4. !M7. at Uie Post OfWce at
INttsburgh. Pa. onde ac: oi iinrch tj. 1879 Aec.p*e.l fur mailing a* special 
rate* of po.jtaso provided { r ir. !li* act of Felit:iy 2 ii?5.
Men her of th* Av'OCiStel Col locate Pit*J>c presented lot m.tion~J *d\er oy *iat;enl Ad**ni*lig. Inc. *'oitee
|>ubh>h.'i* re pie u I i1'#, 420 Am, K *w ioxk Uty. SuWcriisUuo* it<
one stripe from his-the Cameron. Once again the 
| woman's hand shows!
j . The only difference between the Carnegie Tar
tan and the Cameron of Erracht is that the yellow 
stripe which appears in the blue of the one familiar 
to us, appears in the green of the Carnegie Tartan, 
and has two red stripes on either side, rather than 
only one. Otherwise the two are identical.
1 plan to communicate this information to the 
publishers el the Student Handbook, but as that 
will reach only future freshmen and there might 
be some now at Tech who would be interested. I 
hope that some way may be found to publish this in 
the Tartan.
Thank ycu very much for your most kind as
sistance.
Yours very truly,
John W. Wesner, 
Souh. Mech. E.
(.Vie of the big reasons why there is objection 
to h\ing a Student Union i:? the fear that we 
j wi'i strike for more yimy and increased benefits.
Faculty Roadblocks
Editor, The Tartan:
The events of%his school year have thus far 
proven extremely illuminating for they have ex
posed a serious administrative failurein the Car
negie concept of education. The reader of this pa
per cannot help but be aware of the Tartan s con
cern over student apathy. It has dealt with the sit
uation in the vigorous, forthright manner the situa
tion deserves. However, there is another aspect of 
this appalling situation that warrants student ,as 
well as trustee review.
Specifically, it is the detached, autonomous fac
ulty which is permitted to continually thwart the 
efforts of virtually every creative campus organiza
tion. It is a scandalous affair which has been per
mitted to reach rancid proportions and one which^ 
now threatens every campus endeavor with only 
departmental interest and support. This faculty 
group operates behind such vagaries as piofessionalism, etc., ad nauseum, and it is precisely this 
legacy of asininity embodied in the action of this 
group which has retarded both the intellectual 
growth of the campus and the prestige of this in
stitute.
As to why this uncompromising circumstance 
has never been exposed to a serious administrative 
challenge is one of the fascinating absurdities of|f 
this campus. Of this we can be sure, the outcome of 
this issue will ultimately determine the stature of 
this institute as a University, for it poses the ques
tion, For how much longer will this arbitrarity of 
faculty power continue to frustrate student en
deavors and lethargize initiative?
If these autonomous faculty groups have be
come so entrenched so as to abort the efforts of even 
a deanship, what possibilities for even a diluted 
success exist for any campus society in corrTbating 
the student apathy encouraged by this formida-iT 
ble, faculty rooted obstacle?
' John G. Kauper,1 f |Architecture, 1956

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 6, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPage 5
Tech Splits First 
Two In Basketball
Youngstown came to Oakland with tall hopes and left with only 
Ull players as Techs Tiny Tartans ran around the Penguins and won 
the opener, to the delight of some 800 fans. Mels mighty midgets hit
for a neat 42 per cent of their field 
until the fourth quarter when< 
Youngstown began to display 
their advertised power. However, 
the Skibo defense, probably the 
most underrated in the district, 
tightened and held off the final 
splurge. Ralph Mocker and Alan 
Points Frank supplied the bestD
efense efforts with Fieler, Frank 
id Sobelewski providing the 
scoring thrust.
Sobos a sophomore and plays 
some fine ball. He will undoubt
edly develop to one of Techs fine 
round ball artists. Another soph
omore wiio measures only 510 
is Harry Rupert, a Tarentum High 
product who is quite a field gen
eral. Coach Cratsley called on 
Rup when things got rough and 
Larry played foulless ball until 
Things settled down. Then Mel 
sent in the starting unit when 
he was sure danger had passed.
TECH | YOUNGSTOWN
G. F. P.| G. F. P.
Boyd, f... 2 6 10: Atterholt. f 5 0 10Fieler, f. . 7 2 16|Lake, f ... 8 2 18
Frank, c.. 5 7 17|Maybry, c 2 2 6
Mocker, g: 3 3 9 Knott,\g.. 4 6 14
Nathansn. g 3 2 8'Moore, g. . 0 0 4
Sobelski, f 6/ 2 14 Kellum. f. . 0 0 0
Rupert, g. 0 0 0 Woodall, c. 1 3 5
Knapp, g. 0 0 0 Danilov, g. 2 4 8
Totals ...26 27741 Totals ...2 21 65
goal tries and more or less relaxed
Carnegie Tech ............... 45 2974
Youngstown ................... 31 3465
Personal FoulsTech  Sobelewski 5, 
Boyd 2, Fieler, Frank 2, Mocker 3, Nathanson 4, Knapp 2.
YoungstownAtterholt, Lake 4. Mayberry 4. Knott 4. Danilov 2, Woodall.
Missed free throws: Tech 7  Boyd, 
Mocker (6t. Youngstown 9Lake 2. Dan
ilov 2. Kellum. Woodall, Atterhold 3.
Referee: Red Mihalik. Umpire: JackO'Rourke.
MORGANTOWN W. V., Decem
ber 3, 1954Carnegie Tech lost 
its first basketball game of this 
season 92-79 to West Virginia to
night. A crowd of 6500 watched 
Tech and West Virginia fight on 
even terms for the first 14 min
utes, but then all-American Rod 
Hundley took over and pulled the 
Mountaineers to a. 51-29 halftime lead.
Tech, led by Jim Boyd, hit 10 
straight points t the start of the 
second half but when he fouled 
out 5 minuts later the rally died. 
Tech began another drive with 5 
minutes left and the score 84-60 to 
close the gap to 85-77. Ralph 
Mocker scored 11 points in this 
rush but time ran out on the 
Skibos.
Al Frank drjps one in as Tech 
defeats Youngstown, 74-65.
Rod Hundley, West Virginia AllAmerican did little clowning and 
scored 34 points. Mocker had 21, 
and Fieler and Boyd 16 each for 
Tech.
WVU G. F. PF. TECH . . . G. F.PF.
Hundley, f.13 8 3 Fieler, f. . . . 7 2 2
Bergines, f. 1 2 <2 Boyd, f......... 5 6 5Witting e.. 2 3 2 Frank, c.... 2 0 5
Sharrar. g.. 5 4 lj Mocker, g. . 6 9 4
5 3 Ficery 2 2 0
3 5 Nathanson, g 3 2 3
Kishbah
Gardner
MullinsEddy
Vincent
1 0 1! Miller3 10 Tucci 0 3 0
0 4 1 Sobolewski 0 0 5
Richardson 0 0 2
Constantine 0 0 1|
Missed Fouls: <WVU) Hundley (2> Sharrar (4), Witting (IV, Bergines (It. Vin
cent (2). Kishbaugh (It. .King (1>, 
Mullins (It, Richardson (11.(TECH) Fieler (It. Boyd (l, Frank 
(2), Rupert (1), Mocker (4t, Nath
anson (.1), Miller (It, Tucci (1).
By Bernie Seigel
Football and cross-country have finished their fine winning seasons 
and the lads are recuperating  over hot chocolate and cookies every 
night. Larry Bryant, tall, lanky junior metallurgist from Monaca wras 
selected most valuable runner by his team mates.
The basketball season took over prominence around here Thurs
day when the Tartan five took on Youngstowns Penguins before an 
enthused crowd-of students and outsiders. Tech won impressively 
and Mels boys look as if they will win more than they lose again this 
year. The student participation was good with the Kiltie B uid Vest 
Pocket Symphony Ensemble and Conservatory Marching Band render
ing the lively type music the schools basketball games have needed. 
Neat work boys.
Red Mihalik, prominent hard court official about the US, had 
some zipper trouble and had to nave Walt Willoughby, Techs versatile 
and hard working trainer, fix the gadget. Red left the court as the 
combined orchestra gave out with the ever popular What do you say, 
Red Mihalik, what do you say?
Swimming starts on the tenth and finds three brothers from Clairton splashing for coach Sofield and dear old Tech. The Shucks, Dave, 
Frank, and Bob, are senior, sophomore and freshman respectively 
and are going to work well according to early reports.
ATTENTION!!:
STUDENTS
Immediate confirmation of airline reservations to New 
YorkDecember 21returning January 3now 
available for the CHRISTMAS holiday. 
Round Trip $35.20 (including tax)
FORBES TRAVEL SERVICE
5880 Forbes St., Pittsburgh 17 Pa. (Squirrel Hill) JA 1-7300
Free Ticket Delivery
IM Roundup
Volleyball
With the end of the season 
close at hand, the intramural 
volleyball teams have been pro
viding some of the best competi
tion weve seen in net play for 
quite some time. However, witht
ly one nights games remaining 
be played the league standings 
are fairly well settled.
Kiltie League 
SAE A, one of this years 
favorites, last week clinched the 
Kiltie League title by completing 
its season with a 5-0 record. After 
trouncing the Oakleys early in 
the week, the SAE aggregation 
ran up against trouble from a 
spirited Physics Grads team 
^vhich bowed to the league 
champs only after a tough fight. 
In second place, also with a play 
off berth, are the physics grads. 
Starting undefeated, they suffered 
heartbreaking defeats; one at the 
hands of undefeated SAE A 
and the other by previously wmless Tau Delta Phi.
Skibo League 
The defending champiPns ATO 
A are still in the running for 
 repeat performance after end
ing the regular season undefeat
ed. Last week they ended the 
regular season play with a not 
too impressive win over TX and 
the Obelisks. Second place in the 
Skibo League is held by a sur
prising PKB team, which in 
LContinued on Page 6]
John Kennedy asks:
How much 
travel 
is there 
in technical 
sales work?
Earn Your Master's Degree
Plan Now for an 
Executive Career
in Retailing
A one-year executive development 
program open to all A.H. and 
B.S. degree graduates with good 
undergraduate records. Curricu
lum includes executive direction 
in outstanding department stores 
in six major East and Midwest 
cities (with pay, minimum $450). 
Vou earn your Master's Degree 
at the same time. Co-ed. Schol
arships. G.I. approved. Gradu
ates are selectively 
placed before grad
uation. Next class 
begins Sept. 4, 105fi. 
Apply now. Write 
for BULLETIN C.
SCHOOL OF 
RETAILING
UNIVERSITY OF 
PITTSBURGH
A. HICKS LAWRENCE, JR., earned his B E. de
gree from Yale in June 1940 and joined Du Pont 
in the following month as an analytical chemist. 
He progressed steadily at various plants, from 
line foreman to shift supervisor to senior super
visor. In 1949 he applied his technical training to 
sales work. Today Mr. Lawrence is a sales man
ager in the Kinetic Division of Du Fonts 
Organic Chemicals Department.
Well, John, as the Old Man of the Sea told Sinbad the 
Sailor, The quantity of travel varies with the specific 
situation encountered. Of course, youll never be shipwreeked or encounter the other travel problems that 
Sinbad did, but a man shouldnt seriously consider a 
career in sales work unless he really enjoys travel. Most 
of our sales personnel do just that, because the work 
itself provides so many rewards and satisfactions. Its 
not unusual for a representative to be away from home 
base 30 to 60 per cent of the time.
You see, John, for a good salesman, every trip means 
meeting new people, new situations, and new chal
lenges. Every one of these offers a chance to display 
individual initiative. Perhaps the customer will need 
technical advice on applying our product to a specific 
item hes developing. The Du Pont salesman may 
choose to use his own experience and trouble-shoot* 
on the spot. On the other hand, he may refer the prob
lem to home base, where he knows hell be backed 
up by a strong technical organization. This knowledge 
naturally stimulates a salesman and heightens his inter
est in his work. He knows that he never travels alone.
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
WANT TO KNOW MORE about technical sales 
at Du Pont? Send for The Du Pont Company 
and the College Graduate. This booklet con
tains a section on sales work and also gives 
many interesting details about the technical 
staff'and laboratory facilities which stand be
hind a salesman. Write to E. I. du Pont de 
Nemours & Co. (Inc.), 2521 Nemours Build
ing, Wilmington 98, Delaware.
ETTER THINGS FOR BETTER LIVING . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
WAl'CH "DU PONT CAVALCACI; THCATESt ON TV
JOHN T. KENNEDY is working toward his B.S. degree in chem
ical engineering from Notre Dame University in June 1957. Hes 
a member of the student branch of A.I.Ch.E. and is active in the 
Young Christian Students and in the Chicago Club. Because 
John feels one should make employment plans early, hes starting 
bis investigations during his junior year.
A. Hicks Lawrence answers:

---------------------------------------------------

Page CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 6, 1955
Pepsi-C'ola Metropolitan Bottlinf C*., Pittsburgh t, P*.
1955 FOOTBALL TEAM
crowd, 16-0. Tech got off to a slow 
start, but got rolling in the second 
period. Ficery tackled Ed Grazzini in the end zone for a safety. ! 
Later in the stanza Tech added a 1 
touchdown when Les Bryant 
took a 22 yard pass fromTucci ! 
for the marker. Don Hrosik scor
ed the final touchdown on a 9 
yard pass to Adams. DeVries add
ed both extra points.
Fifth Straight
The Tartans scored their fifth 
win in a row when they topped 
Franklin and Marshall Diplomats, 
12-0. After a scoreless first-half 
Tech scored the first time they 
got the ball. DeVries hurtled from 
the 2 yard line for the1' score. 
Briner scored later in the period 
when he took a hand-off from 
Adams and slanted into the end 
zone.
Tech then traveled to St. Vin
cent where they were surprised 
by the Bears and held to a 7-7- 
tie. St. Vincent took the lead on 
the last play of the first-half on 
a 60 yard pass from Ron Haushalter to Dick Shalala. Bob Wrabley passed to Ed Fox in the end
[Continued on page 8}
IM Roundup
[Continued from page 5] 
preseason predictions was expect
ed to be a top cellar contender. 
However, playing a rather unor
thodox style of volleyball, they 
have been able to beat everyone 
but top running ATO. The ATO 
team probably doesnt relish the 
thought of playing PK B again 
which could possibly happen in
the play offs.
Tartar League
The top game of next Tuesday 
should be the Tartan League con
test between two undefeated 
teams, the Grad Mesons and Kap
pa Sigs A. Both teams have run 
over their early season opponents 
and have only one game to play. 
With this game deciding the 
league championship, both teams 
will be out for blood, and the 
game may well be the most spiriti ed of the year. No matter how 
I the contest ends, however, both 
! teams will enter the playoffs, 
i which are among the top two 
teams of all four leagues. The 
playoffs will be held at 7:30 on 
Wednesdaj7, Thursday, and Fri
day of this week. There is no ad
mission for these contests, and 
any volleyball enthusiasts with 
these evenings free should not 
miss these games.
Plaid League
The Plaid League champion is 
still undecided. At present three 
teams remain in contention, led 
by undefeated PK A. The 
Faculty Bulldogs have a chance 
to throw the league into a three 
way tie among themselves, PK 
A, Wilmerding AC and by beat
ing PK A Tuesday night. This 
would mean a playoff for first and 
second places. On the other hand 
if PK A wins, they will take 
league honors with Wilmerding 
AC holding second place.
At any rate the coming week 
will be the climax of the volley
ball season, and it would be advisible for everyone to take in a 
game or two.
Bridge
With the season about one-half 
over, PKA A is on top on the
Tartan league with two impressive 
victories and looks like the team 
to beat. The top-rated Skibo 
league team, TDP, didnt play this 
week and still has a one winno 
loss record. The Kiltie leagues in 
complete turmoil with all teams 
either winning and losing one 
game or winning and tieing one 
game. The league standings should 
be pretty well settled, though, by 
this time next week.
Table Tennis
The table tennis season is well 
under way although many teams 
have not turned in the results of 
their matches. At this point it 
looks like the teams to beat are 
TX, Obelisk, and BSR A in the 
Tartan, Skibo, and Plaid leagues 
respectively.
Bowling
The bowling seaso-i is off and 
running with matches being bowl
ed at 12:30 on Saturdays at the 
University Recreation on Craig 
Street.
Basketball
Basketball entries are due De
cember 16; play begins January 9. 
All teams in scheduling practices 
see Mr. Birdy in Room 104 of the 
Gym.
Call Pool
Call pool entries are due Decem
ber 16; play starts January 4.
Wrestling
All those interested in wrestling, 
report to Mr. Armstrong in Thistle 
Hall Monday, Wednesday, and 
Friday at 4:30.
ENGINEERS
 Mechanical  Chemical  Civil  Electrical
Interviews With Engineering Seniors Will Be held
FEBRUARY 10, 1956
For Positions As Engineers In the 
Manufacturing Department
STANDARD OIL COMPANY
(INDIANA)
Contact Your Placement Officc For An 
Interview Appointment
Football Review 
Shows Good Season
By Jim Lacey
The Carnegie Tartans completed another successful season with a 
record of 5 wins, 1 loss, and 1 tie. It was Techs seventh consecutive 
winning season, but it didn't compare with 1954s record of 7 wins 0
losses, 1 tie. 
The Tartans got off to a bad 
start when they lost to a much 
superior Lafayette Leopards, 41-14. 
The Leopards jumped off to a 27-
0 lead at half-time. The Leopards 
scored in the following manner: 
Don Sayenga on a 55 yard pass 
from Joe Bozik, Bozik on a 20 
yard run, Gordon Brown on a five 
yard smash, A1 Adelmann on a 
six yard pass from Ai Caesar, 
Chuck Kozichek on a one yard 
plunge, and Frank Mattison on a 
two yard plunge. Mattison con
verted five times. Tech scored their 
tallies when John Tucci plunged 
into the end zone from the one on 
a quarterback sneak twice. Roy 
DeVries and Ken Ficery converted.
First Win
Tech got their first win when 
they whipped the Johns Hopkin. 
Blue Jays, 26-6, at Baltimore. Tech 
dominated the early play but only j 
could make short gains. The first 
tally was made by Tucci who 
sneaked over from the one. Thus 
the score stayed until the third 
period when Brown punched over 
one later on, Cassett took a Tucci  
pass. In the fourth period, Bill 
Taylor added the final score for j 
the Tartans.
The Scots continued on their 
winning ways as they turned back 
the Dickinson Red Devils at Car
lisle, Pa. by a score of 26-0. The 
Tartans rolled up a 19-0 half-time
lead and coasted the rest of the 
way as Dickinson could not get an 
offensive started. Ace Adams fig
ured in the first three scores as he 
tossed a 25 yard pass to Jeep 
Myers, a 34 yard pass to Larry 
Cassett, and again a 13 yard pass 
i to Cassett. Tom Briner added the 
extra point by running into the 
end zone, Tucci finished the scor
ing by taking a lateral from Bri
ner and racing 60 yards for the 
score. DeVries added the extra 
point.
Homecoming Victory
Tech then conquered Temple 18- 
16 to add to the Homecoming fes
tivities. Temple first went ahead 
2-0 on a safety. Tech came back 
with Tucci scoring from the one 
yard line. Temple started a drive 
that netted them a score after the 
second half was just a minute old, 
when Carl Anderson plunged from 
the two. Tech then went ahead to 
stay when Tucci tossed an aerial 
to DeVries who took it on his own 
38 and went the remaining 62 
yards for the T.D. Walt Majeski 
intercepted a Temple pass on the 
Owls 22 moments later and went 
into the end zone unmolested. Chet 
Brunike passed to Lonnie Staton 
for the Owl's final score. Charlie 
Goodall added the extra point.
Tech next rolled over the Wash
ington and Jefferson Presidents 
before the Prexies Homecoming
HES BUILDING A FOUNDATION FOR HIS FUTURE Ii
transmits television pictures and tele
phone conversations simultaneously.
In 1955, as part of his further 
development, Paul was transferred to !
a completely different assignment. He 
now supervises the important plan
ning job of balancing a working force 
of 900 Long Distance operators with 
the ever-changing work load. 
*1 use my engineering background 
on this job, too, says Paul. It's 
extremely interesting and has lots of 
responsibility. Besides, you need ex
perience in more than one depart
ment to give you background.
Paul Guild is typical of young engineers in the Bell 
System. Similar career opportunities exist in tlie Bell 
Telephone Companies, Bell Telephone Laboratories,
Western Electric and Sandia Corporation. Your place
ment officer has more information on these companies.
I I I
BELL
TELEPHONE
SYSTEM
Paul Guild, E.E., Purdue, 49, 
started as a student engineer with 
Long Linesthe Bell System unit that 
interconnects Bell Telephone Com
panies. In the student training pro
gram he became familiar with all 
operations of the business.
After that he spent two years on 
technical and engineering projects 
that took him to Indianapolis, Cleve
land and Atlanta.
March of 1953 found Paul in Cin
cinnati working on the construction 
of radio relay routes. He worked with 
the newest microwave equipment that
A Campus-to-Career Case History

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, December 6, 1955CARNEGIE TARTANPaje t
hard a time getting bach 
Phi Gamma Pi sorority will 
hold an Initiation Tea on Sunday 
afternoon, December 11. The fol
lowing girls will be taken into 
the sorority: Mary Alice Chilleo, 
Frances Dubich, Doris Rogers, 
Dorothy Lawman, Sandra Dunn, 
Evelyn Kaney, and Mary Rager.
The way hair styles are to
day, you cant tell from the 
back if its a man who needs a 
haircut or a woman who just 
had one.
Weve got it and right off the 
press, too. There will be a new 
course in history given the second 
semester entitled A History of 
American Life Since 1900. In 
this class, there will be readings 
in a broad survey of recent 
American social and political de
velopment, along with laboratory 
investigation, lecture, and discus
sion of major problems and issues 
which are of special interest to 
the citizens of today. This new 
history class will be taught by 
Professor Meier on Wednesdays, 
from 7:30 to 10:20 p.m.
Super 
Snooper
Birthday CornerEvening School Newman Club 
will have .their Christmas Party 
on Sunday evening, December 11, 
at the Carnegie Union. This was 
originally scheduled to be an 
orphans party, but due to the 
fact that all the orphanages were 
booked for this date, plans were 
quickly changed.
There will be games, dancing, 
food and a grab bag. And, if 
were al> good boys and girls, 
maybe Santa Claus will visit us.
Dont forget your $.50 grab bag 
gift(boys buy for boys, girls 
buy for girls),and well see you 
all there at 7:15 p.m., Sunday 
evening, December 11.
% Where there is a wonderful 
tie between father and son, the 
son generally is wearing it.
Tickets for the Military Ball, 
to be held on Saturday, December 
10, are now on sale. You may 
pick up your tickets in Mr. McKelways office any evening.
Money may not go as far as 
it used to, but it has just as
Happy Birthday to 
Albert Mazukma 
Paul Plaisted 
Tom Runsey 
David Anderson 
Franci Harnett 
Frank Bauer 
Robert Becker 
Janies V. Webb 
Dolores Courty 
Adam Blazeck 
Ethel Vincent 
Charles Crawford 
Sam Dando 
Jesse Nesbitt 
Thomas Puzniak 
Ben Scanga 
Melvin Lux 
Charles Criner 
John George 
Martin Jacobs 
Clyde Marsiglio 
Regis Rothraiff 
Dart Ridenour 
Andy Unger 
Dorothy Lawman 
Thelma Fox 
Ed Forst 
Henry Mansch 
James Marron 
Frank Puspake
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor ................................................................................................ Dolores Neff
Reporters.................................................. John Van Holt, Jr., Emily Muhic
Wheres Your Spirit?
The Health Department has a 
staff of two resident physicians 
and two registered nurses, aided 
by consulting physicians.
Been Thinking of Buying A Car?
Before you buy any car of any make, NEW or USED, see: 
WALLY DONOGHUE, 101 WELCH HALL 
HE WILL GET THE CAR YOU WANT
AT THE PRICE YOU WANT!
MC 3-0242 or AL 1-S200
Sigma Delta Phi
Meeting: December 11, 1955. 
Time: 2:00 p.m.
Place: Room A, Carnegie 
Union.
WHATS
THIS?FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS 
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
For solution, see 
paragraph below.
Every Tuesday at 12:30 
E. H. 1112 
All Students and Faculty 
Welcome
SPONSORED BY
American Society of Mechanical 
Engineers and Society of Auto
motive Engineers in Conjunction with AIEE & AICHE
HERES A DROODLE THAT PACKS A PUNCH. Its titled: 
Lucky smoke rings blown by prizefighter with tooth miss
ing. It packs a moral, too: Why knock yourself out looking 
for a better-tasting cigarette when all you have to do is 
light up a Lucky? Luckies taste better, first, because 
Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Then, that tobacco is 
TOASTED to taste better. So light up a Lucky. Its the 
winner and still championfor better taste!
DROODLES, Copyright 1953 by Roger Price
NARROW ESCAPE 
FROM ANGRY BULL
Janice Ruth Ferris Northern Illinois State
SIGNATURE STAMP 
FOR ILLITERATE
Glenn Crawford Emory
ALPHABET SOUP 
IN A GREEK RESTAURANT
Norman Gerber C.C.N.Y.^our doctor will tell you  a 
NoDoz Awakener is safe as an 
average cup of hot, black cofa NoDoz Awakener 
when you cram for that exam 
or when mid-afternoon 
?l ings on those 3 oclock cob"cbs. Youll find NoDoz gives 
> ou a lift without a letdown... 
lf"lps you snap back to normal 
and fight fatigue safely!
'3 tobl*ti_QCr tonomy six* 1)0#0u Creek Rev* end H f| ^Dorms) 40 tablets 
j COLLEGE SMOKERS PREFER LUCKIES!
I  Luckies lead aii ~^ier brands, regular or king 
| size, among 36,075 college students questioned 
I coast to coast. The number-one reason: Luckies 
| taste better. -
JIGSAW OF FUJIYAMA 
(PIECE MISSING)
Robert Bardle U. of Florida
J j LUCKIES TASTE BETTER - Clea, fresher. Smoother!
f A.T.C* PRODUCT OF jdnAMXin AMERICAS fading manufacture* of CIGARETTES
So bxppc

---------------------------------------------------

-BUT IT KILLS 
ME TO SEE 
MESSY HAIRAND (
LOOSE 
DANDRUFF.?" J
BUT k 
I THAT'D 
> BE L
ILLEGALHIS NAME'S 
SHERWIN."
SMART MOTHERS 1 
Gf^OOM HAIR AND 
REMOVE LOOSE 
DANDRUFF WITH 
WILD ROOT CREAMOIL, CHARLIE.r.rMUDDER.?
PARDON ME, 
MADAM  I 
USUALLY HATE 
TO SHOOT 
ANYONE'S 
MOTH ER.r.rOWLY CREAM-OIL C200V5 AND CONDITIONS HAIR THE NATURAL WAY
Dorm Rental
[Continued from page 1]
Page 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 6. 1955
Essay Contest Council
[Continued jiom page 11
fit better the situations where two 
or three students find themselves 
with a promising idea out of in
terested conversation and yet no 
one of them is sure of having the 
time to complete by himself a 
proper essay.
The special purpose of the essay 
contest is to get a number of stu
dents each year to show initiative 
and responsibility on practical so
cial-problem ideas that have al
ready come into their minds and 
into their discussions  not for 
them to think up artificial topics 
for the sake of creditable-seeming 
essays. The goal is to illustrate the 
application of Carnegie Tech train
ing to citizenship in ways that 
have a close connection with the 
actual intellectual life of Tech 
undergraduates. The desire of the 
donors has been particularly to 
stimulate and deepen interest in 
civic problems among students in 
the engineering curricula.
The prizes this year will include 
two second prizes of $75 and two 
third prizes of $25. for a total of 
five awards. Further details on 
prizes, subject matter, and entry 
information may be obtained in 
the history department office, AH 
132-B.
[Continued from page 1]
All these outlines are tentative 
right now. No architect has been 
! consulted as yet, but a specialist 
| group in the field of college un
ions will be asked to submit opin
ions about construction of a good 
| recreational center. The commitI tee in charge of plans for the UnI ion wants suggestions from the 
students themselves as to what 
i they would like in this new buildI ing.
Constitution Changes
Revising the Student Council 
j constitution became necessary 
| when it was suggested that this 
j group take on the sponsorship of 
t Homecoming and Spring Carnival. 
The old constitution makes no
I provision for these responsibilities 
so new mechanics must be set up 
I if Student Council is to do the job. 
! ODK and Mortar Board have or! ganzed a committee to study the 
| problem. The findings of this com
mittee will be presented to the 
; Council members next week.
P&D Project
[Continued from page 1] 
particulars about Calgons back
ground.
Sixteen Designs 
After five weeks, the students 
completed sixteen different de
signs for a new Calgon package. 
The designs were examined this 
week by George B. Motheral, ad
vertising manager of the Hagan 
Corporation which makes Cal
gon, J. C. Weithaus, vice presi
dent in charge of sales in Hagans 
Calgon subsidiary, Mr. Lathrop 
and Professor Worner.
The project, said the sponsors, 
was a success in every way. It 
exposed the students to practical 
problems they would encounter 
as designers in the commercial 
world. They learned that the de
sign artist does not operate in 
isolation, that he is a member of 
a team composed of himself, the 
visualizer, the copywriter, the 
client and the production man.
High Quality 
The sponsors agreed that the 
16 designs produced through ma
ture cooperation of students, the 
advertising agency and the client 
represent h;rr'' level professional 
thinking ar at' similar projects 
would rest i a higher professionaT status for graduating stu
dents.
Lafcadio
Student tickets for Lafcadio 
will be distributed on Thurs
day, December 8 between 4:00 
p.m. and 5 p.m. in the main 
office of the College of Fine 
Arts.
Football[Continued from page 6] 
zone for the extra point. Tech
struck back midway in the third 
period when Adams plunged over 
from the one. DeVries converted 
and thats the way the score re
mained.
Tech then was to play unde
feated, but once tied Westrpinster, 
however snow and Labor Union 
interfered. The game was cancell
ed.
Even though the backs scored 
most of the points, particular 
mention should go to the unsung 
work of the line who played sup
erbly on both offense and defense.
Ed Karcher was elected by the 
team and coaches as Techs most 
valuable player. A senior from
Clairton, Ed played three greais 
years of ball for the Tartans a3 
a guard and line-backer.
Both Karcher and Wengrzyn 
were elected to the local All Star 
district eleven.
The following is the scoring:
NameT.D.P.A.T.Total
Tucci5030
DeVries2719
Cassett30
Briner117
Adams106
Brown10 x6
Bryant1- 06
Hrosik136
Majeski106
Myers106
Naylor106
Ficery013*
*Two points to Ficery for safe
ty.
B-BUT I'M ' 
FER ME OLD
Donner Hall
Single room...........$270 per man
Double room ... .$210 per man 
Scobell Hall
Second* and Third Floors
Single room...........$260 per man
Corner double room.................
...............................$200 per man
Double room other than
comer................$200 per man
First Floor
Single room___$224 per man |
Corner double room ................
...............................$200 per man
Double room other than
corner................$170 per man
Basement
Corner double room..................
............................. $150 per man
Double room other than
corner................$140 per man
Miller Hall
Single room .... $240 per man 
Double room .... $200 per man 
Scheduled for rehabilitation 
during summer of 1956.
CFP--
[Continued from page 1J
the increases, which are both 
substantial and inc 1 u s i v e of 
greek and school dorm dwellers, 
are suggested for enactment be
fore the new fraternity dorms are 
constructed. The administration 
has requested chapter discussion 
of the plan in order to determine 
the coefficient of reluctance.
