VOL. 50No. 9 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYTUES., NOV. 20, 1956
Exec Council Passes 
Activities Fee Motion
What may well be one of the most controversial issues to come 
before the new student government this year was proposed and 
passed by the Executive Council at last Thursdays meeting. This 
is a proposal for a student activities fee of five dollars per semester 
to be paid at the time of registra-^ 
tion. This will be brought before
Budgets Due
The chairman of the Finance 
Committee of Student Con
gress reminds all organiza
tions who receive appropria
tions from Student Congress 
that their yearly budgets 
must be submitted by No
vember 20, 1956today.
the Student Congress at their 
next regular meeting, December 
5.
. After the immediate prejudi
cial reaction cceated by mere men
tion of any scheme to take money 
from the pockets of Tech students 
is overcome, it becomes obvious 
that an all-school activities fee 
would have considerable merit. 
For only ten dollars a year, each 
student would be entitled to a 
copy of the Thistle, admission to 
Homecoming and Spring Carnival 
dances, and admission to another, 
as yet unspecified, all-school 
Wice. The fee would be applic
able to all undergraduate, full
time day students, although grad
uate students could participate if 
they so desired.
Fee Allocation
From an estimated income of 
approximately $30,000, the Exec
utive Council has proposed that 
the allocation b as follows: 
Thistle, $12,000; Homecoming, 
$,000; Spring Carnival, $7,000; 
^specified all-school dance, $4,- 
000; and Student Union fund, $2,- 
000. These figures are of course 
only suggestions, but they show 
that the funds to be made avail
able to the Thistle and for the 
big dances would be far in excess 
of present .mounts.
For instance, $5,000 available 
for Homecoming is practically 
two and a half times the amount 
this years committee had to work 
i^ith. With such funds, it would 
be possible to bring really big 
name bands to three Tech dances 
every year.
The next action to be taken is 
up to the Student Congress. If 
this group endorses the plan, it 
will be an indication of sufficient 
student interest to warrant con
sideration by the administration.
M^ech Students 
To Visit Europe
Tech students will have the 
opportunity during the summer of
1957 to travel in a European fine 
arts and history tour.
Preliminary plans are being laid 
now for a tour of approximately 
50 days at a cost of about $930.00 
(including trans-Atlantic plane 
Jare). The countries listed on a 
tentative itinerary are England, 
France, Switzerland, Italy, Ger
many and Holland.
Announcement of the proposed 
trip is being made at this time so 
that students may consult with 
their parents during Thanksgiv
ing vacation. Definite plans should 
be made before Christmas. If suf
ficient interest is shown, addition
al notices will be prepared and 
distributed as to accommodations, 
preparation, and requirements for 
joining the group.
Students interested in the tour 
are asked to submit their names 
and consult with the following 
faculty members: Engineering and 
Science student?, Professor Rob
ert Schwartz, A.H. 128-B; Mar
garet Morrison students, Profes
sor Melva B. Bakkie, M.M. 309; 
art students and others, Professor 
Elizabeth Kimberly, Arts 104, or 
professor Norman H. Dawes, Arts 
103.
Tartan Cheerleaders Austin
The football teams most faithful followers leading the crowd 
at the seasons final game. (See page 3), Left to right are Barb Russ, 
Judy Wahl, Tody Emmert, Lex Baker, Julie Mahoney, and Gloria 
Cofsky.
1956 Campus Chest 
$450 Over Record
Incomplete returns from the recent Campus Chest drive show 
that this years campaign has been highly successful. The cash col
lected to date by approximately 350 student solicitors is $2619, an 
amount exceeding the total of cash plus pledges taken in last year's
---------------------r-----------------------------------?drive. In addition to the money alA A ready collected, pledges for $348CtiA Announces 
Topics For Next 
Two Assemblies
U.S. Unprepared 
Says Dr. Aslien 
In Forum Talk
The United States should have 
a much better concept of non
military preparedness for war 
than Civil Defense. So said Dr. 
Melvin Ashen, special consultant 
for the Office of Defense Mobiliza
tion and speaker at the last Tues
days Tech Forum.
Using as his topic Non Military 
Defense Against Atomic Attack, 
Dr. Ashens discussion centered 
around questionable effectiveness 
of Civil Defense. He felt that real 
preparedeness for war implies ef
fective preparation for handling 
casualties minimizing damage and 
providing shelters. At present 
some big cities plan to evacuate 
the populace, but have no means 
to take care of these evacuees.
Stockpile
In addition to Civil Defense he 
said that we should, through gov
ernment, encourage a speeding up 
of decentralization of industry and 
develop stand-by factories  
these to include some underground 
plants to turn out vitally import
ant arms and equipment in case 
of air attack. Also he feels that 
there is a need for big industry to 
stock-pile raw material and es
tablish depositories of patents and 
work procedures in case of disas
ter.
Dr. Ashen repeated that, u we 
are to survive a major war we 
must be prepared for attack be
cause, even with the best defense 
in the world, 66% of the enemy 
bombers will penetrate and some 
large cities will be hit. Unless we 
are prepared, defeat is inevitable.
The U.S. at present spends 40 
billion dollars on defense, and 75 
million on Civil Defense. With a 
little more on Civil Defense we 
would be much better prepared to 
face attack and possibly might 
prevent attack. The cost to ade
quately equipmajor cities with 
bomb shelters would be about 
3 billion dollars per year for six 
years.
Periodically the CRA sponsors 
religious assemblies for Tech stu
dents and faculty. On November 
27, the Right Reverend Monsignor 
William G. Connare will speak on 
Religion in the Modern College 
and on December 4, Dr. David 
Noel Freedman will discuss the 
Dead Sea Scrolls.
Monsignor Connare is a noted 
Catholic lecturer and has often 
appeared in religious programs on 
radio and television. In addition 
to his work at St. Richard Catholic 
Church in Pittsburgh, he hojds 
one of the most important offices 
in the Pittsburgh Diocesethat of 
diocesan director of the Society 
for the Propagation of the Faith. 
He is also chaplain of the Univer
sity Catholic Club.
Minister and Professor 
Recently featured in an article 
in Presbyterian Life, Dr. Freed
man is a noted Pittsburgh minis
ter and professor at the Western 
Theology Seminary and head of 
its Old Testament department. He 
also serves as editor of the Jour
nal of Biblical Literature.
With speakers of this type of 
background, the CRA promises 
two enlightening and interesting 
assemblies. Monsignor Connares 
lecture on November 27 was arhave been received. The grand 
total to date, $2,967, is almost $450 
more than that collected last year.
The goal of the 1956 Campus 
Chest drive was 100% student 
participation. Late returns show 
that some 1,500 of Techs 3,282 
students have contributed. The 
group showing the highest per
centage was the grad dorms, with 
88%. The More wood girls and 
fraternity men both had nearly 
75% participation and the mens 
dorms had about 62% contribut
ing.
Commuters: Weakness
The lowest percentage was real
ized among the commuting stu
dents, 23%. This low figure was 
in large part due to the concur
rent United Fund drive. Many 
students and students parents 
were contacted first through this 
fund; a factor which certainly re
duced the percentage contributing 
through the Tech Campus Chest.
This is the first time exact sta
tistics on the number of contrib
utors have been kept. With the 
exception of a $25 donation from 
Teknon Club, all of the funds were 
contributed by individuals, indi
cating that the average per capita 
gift was close to two dollars.
Blood Wanted
Banner lodge of the Knights 
of Pythias desires blood do
nations for the blood bank. 
They will pay $10.60 for each 
pint. If you wish to donate, 
please call JA 1-0549.
Executive Council 
Discusses Scot
Although overshadowed by the 
activities fee proposal, (see col
umn one) several other matters 
of importance were discussed at 
the last meeting of the Student 
Council Executive Council. One 
of these concerned the recent isranged by Techs Catholic chap! ^ue Scot, which was felt
lain, Father J. Regis Berkmyre j  extremely humorand Dr. Freedmans address on
December 4, is sponsored by CRA 
under the direction of Dr. J. Fred 
Sochatoff and Miss Ruth Shinn.
Both of these assemblies will be 
held in Fine Arts Little Theater at 
11:30 on respective Tuesdays.
Istvan Leszlo To Be Speaker 
At Hungarian Protest Meeting
The determined effort of the revolution of the Hungarian people 
in the face of overwhelming odds has attracted the attention of most 
people and has even reached the discussion tables of Skibo. Although 
the Tech student may react with a mingling of sympathy and ad-------------------------------------------------?miration for the Hungarians, the
chances he will dp anything about 
it are slight.
Now there is an opportunity for 
the Techite who is concerned 
about the situation of the HunTech Kiltie Band 
New York Bound 
For Annual Clinic
Carnegie Techs Kiltie Band has 
been selected by the nationally 
organized Band Betterment Asso
ciation to represent the countrys 
college bands in an annual 
music clinic slated for Novem
ber 24 in New York City, George 
Reynolds, director of the Tech 
Kilties, announced Friday.
The Band Betterment Associa
tion is a group of music publish
ers who sponsor the yearly event 
in New York for bandmasters 
throughout the EaL They invite 
professional, collegiate, high 
school and elementary school 
bands which they feel are the out
standing groups in their area of 
music.
Our band has been given the 
honor spot during the two-day 
clinic for its concert, and our pipe 
band has been asked to present a 
demonstration as well, Mr. Rey
nolds added.
The invitation to Tech as the
garians to at least express his pro
test to the Soviet action. On Tues
day, November 20, at 8:30 at the 
Schenley High School auditorium 
there will be a meeting to protest 
Soviet suppression of th Hungar
ian people.
Nationally Known Speaker
ous, but also a little too explicit 
in certain places which might 
have been better if worded in 
subtler terms.
Therefore, with the intent of 
preventing the Scot from incur
ring the wrath of the administra
tion, the Council recommended 
that the journalism honorary, Pi 
Delta Epsilon, take such measures 
as may be necessary to insure the 
publication of a more generally 
acceptable Scot in the future.
The perennial question as to 
the worth of the National Stu
dents Association arose, and, for 
lack of adequate, information 
about this organization and the 
possible advantages Tech would 
gain from membership, further 
discussion was postponed. A na
tional representative of NSA will 
very likely visit our campus earljr 
in December, and if so, a meet
ing of the Executive Council with 
him will be arranged.
The plight of thousands of ref
ugee Hungarian students was 
mentioned, with consideration of 
ways in which Tech students 
could be of assistance. There 
seems to be a national student 
movement afoot to disprove the 
contention that only students in 
countries other than our ownThe principle speaker will be 
Istvan Leszlo, who was studying I are concerned with international 
at the University of Sopron in | affairs. It was decided to call a
western Hungary when the rev
olution broke out and led the stu
dents to disarm the local secret 
police, and used their weapons to 
disarm the local Communist func
tionaries in the city. He escaped 
to Austria and was flown to the 
U.S. where he has spoken at Mad
ison Square Garden and .ias testi
fied before the Senate Internal Se
curity Subcommittee.
Judge Lois McBride will be 
chairman of the protest meeting 
which has been organized by the 
Citizens Committee for Hungar
ian freedom. Geza Grosschmid of 
Duquesne University and Hugh 
C5leland of Pitt are co-chairmen 
of this committee. Speakers from 
collegiate band was made this j local colleges, including Tom Harsummer and was accepted as an j rison from Tech, will speak along 
honor and a recognition.  [continued from page 2}
special Student Congress meeting 
on Monday to study and decide 
upon courses of action.
Thistle Queen
It was announced Sunday 
that this years Thistle Queen 
is Caroletta Valencourt. In the 
court are Diane Warden, Lynn 
Tryon, and Julie Nash.
Publicity for these girls will 
be given by Cordic and Com
pany and in the three leading 
Pittsburgh newspapers. Not to 
be outdone, the TARTAN in 
the next issue will feature 
news, pictures, and an inter
view with Miss Valencourt 
and her court.

---------------------------------------------------

Paffe 2CARNEOME TARTANTuesday, November 21, 1959
Mitch Timin: An All Around
Techite In No Conceivable Way
By Dave Stea and Terry Sharp
Editors note: This is the third and possibly the last in a TARTAN 
series on outstanding student personalities.
Mitch Timin, a senior BMOC (Bag-eyed Motorcyclist Off Campus) 
can easily be recognized by his slouching walk and unfriendly per
sonality. An indifferent scholar,?
Mitch came to Carnegie because 
his mother sent him.
Mitchs scholarship is rank. He 
is one of the many men on campus 
to belong to none of the mens 
honoraries. Last year he was in
volved in absolutely nothing. On 
Carnegie Day, Mitch was not call
ed to Phi Kappa Phi, Eta Kappa 
Nu, Tau Beta Pi, or any honorary 
selecting men or women from the
Mitch Timin
BMOC
upper, middle, or lower portions 
of the senior, junior, sophomore, 
or freshman classes.
Extracurricular Moderation
In addition to being a member 
of none of the honoraries, Mitch 
holds the dubious distinction of 
being inactive in all other extra
curricular activities. He is pre
sently not a member of ASME, 
SAE, AIEE, IRE, Citcom, YMCA, 
Teknon, etc. He recently severed 
economic relations with Leap n 
Linx M. C., but is still a fanatic 
member of the Student Agnostic 
Federation. Until his senior year, 
Mitch, through diligent and brow
beating labor but with effortless 
grace and abandon, managed to 
avoid joining every single (or 
married) group on campus.
Foiled at last by Postum, Mitch 
has been shanghaied into the 
FSEAACC (Frew Street Earthbound Aircraft Association Com
petition Committee) and was re
cently railroaded into the Presi
dency of IAS (Institute of Aero
nautical Sciences, a bonafide Car
negie Tech student organization). 
Kingpin of the Helmut Wobitsch 
Fan Club, Mitch says of Campus 
Chest: What?  Me worry?
Drama Students 
Will Soon Present 
Witty Show Play
The drama department will 
present George B. Shaws Fan
nys First Play December 1 
through December 11, with a 
matinee on December 6.
Written in 1910, this play is 
full of the witty, pertinent com
ments on manners and morals for 
which Shaw is famous. It is in
tended to be a satire on his own 
style of writing, the critics con
temporary to his time and on his 
favorite topic, the emptiness of 
middle class morality.
Essentially the plot is concern
ed with Fanny ODowda, por
trayed by Carole Cox, and the 
production of her first play. The 
cast of Fannys first attempt in
cludes Edward Martz, Gilbey; 
Marlou Jahn, Mrs. Gilbey; Joseph 
Sommer, Juggins; Joan Feldman, 
Dora; Janice Meshkoff, Mrs. 
Knox; Richard Brown, Knox; 
Denise Huot, Margaret Knox, 
Karl Kraft, Duvallet; and Brooke 
Howard, Bobby Gilbey.
Students taking part in the play 
proper are Stephen Randall, Jack 
Shaheen, James Goldswig, Jay 
Kobler, Richard Bernstein, Lewy 
Olfson, Clyde Sharp, Gayle 
Greene and Nancy Pickhardt.
Behind the scenes, Steve Arnold 
is stage manager for the cast, Sue 
Spector is in charge of costumes, 
Roland Lee takes care of the set
tings and Charles Caine works 
the lights.
Vienna Orchestra 
To Play Locally
The world famous Vienna Phil
harmonic Orchestra, second old
est established major orchestra 
in the world, arrives in Pittsburgh 
November 25 for one perform
ance as part of its first tour of the 
United States. The performance is 
scheduled with curtain time set 
for 8:40 p.m., November 25.
Carl Schuricht conducts the 
venerable Vienna Orchestra at 
Syria Mosque, November 25, but 
the ghosts of musical greats will 
be in the wings during the per
formance. For, in years gone by, 
such peers of composition and 
conducting as Johannes Brahms, 
Anton Bruckner, Gustav Mahler, 
and Richard Strauss wielded the 
; baton before the great Vienna 
j Philharmonic. In many cases, 
I these composers conducted the
__ , ,. : Vienna Orchestra in world pre-Clearly, Mitch is an apathetic nn_ miers of -their own great works.
On World TourCampus Chest contributing stu
dent.
Mitch is not lacking in an ap
preciation of the literary arts. An 
ardent supporter of Techs publi
cations, Mitch recently removed 
a copy of the Scot from a stu
dent who is smaller than himself.
Tickets for this one appearance 
of the Vienna Philharmonic at 
Syria Mosque, November 25, are 
now on sale. They may be pur
chased at Kaufmanns, Gimbels 
or Hornes in downtown Pitts
burgh this week and next.
AIA Lecture
The student chapter of the 
AIA will sponsor a lecture on 
Monday, November 26, at 8:30 in 
the SIA auditorium.
At this time Mrs. Sibyl MaholyNagy will give a talk entitled 
Architecture, Art or Design? 
Mrs. Maholy-Nagy is currently 
associate professor of history of 
architecture at Pratt Institute. She 
received the Architectural League 
of New Yorks Brunner Fellow
ship for a research project on 
Anonymous Architecture of the 
Western . Hemisphere. She has 
given lectures at architectural 
schools in various universities, and 
has contributed numerous^ articles 
to the Atlantic Monthly, archi
tectural and college art journals.
Newman Dinner
The Newman Club will hold a 
combined spaghetti dinner and 
business meeting on Thursday, 
November 29, 1956 at 5:30 at Cen
tral Catholic High School cafe
teria. The business meeting will 
follow immediately after the din
ner and conclude early enough 
for the girls to get back to Morewood Gardens.
Items of business to be discuss
ed are: the social calendar for the 
spring semester, a retreat, revision 
of the constitution, and present 
club policies. In order that we 
may adequately provide for all 
attending, it will be necessary to 
sign the list posted on the New
man Club bulletin board in Skibo.
Playhouse
Giving the Playhouse its best 
business in several seasons, the 
Broadway comedy, Bus Stop 
opened the current season and is 
being held over for a seven week 
run.
On Saturday, November 24 
when Bus Stop closes its seven 
week run, The Desperate Hours 
will open at the Playhouses Craft 
Avenue Theater. This nerve-shat
tering melodrama about a trio of 
escaped convicts who take tem
porary refuge in a private home 
will be directed by Frederick Bur
leigh.
Home Ec
The Home Economics Club will 
hold its annual Christmas Dinner 
on December 13 at 5:30. Tickets 
will be on sale December 3, 4, 5 
at 11:30 and 12:30 in the lobby of 
MMCC. Tickets will also be sold 
at the dorm on these dates.
OFFICES: Carnegie Union, 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh 13, Pa. Office phone, 
MU 2-4557; Managing Editor, MU 2-8899; Executive Editor, MU 2-9846; Advertis
ing Manager; MU 2-8851. Published weekly during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Institute of Technology, 
Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Managing Editor ......... ...................................................................................... Stephanie Mackay
Executive Editor ...................... ...........................................................................  Robert Russell
Associate Editor ................................................................................................................ Marjo King
Associate Editor ............................................................................................................. Richard Fox
Business Manager ...................................................................................................... Robert Sorkin
News EditorAnn Forest. Sports EditorRobert Hoppe, Copy EditorEdwin 
Ro*jrv Photography Editor John Austin, Assistant Business ManagerHarley Bernbach. Advertising ManagerBill Mowry, Assistant Adv. ManagerRichard Grunauer, Cirealation ManagerAlan Hodel, SecretaryJoan Seidel.
Entered as second class matter on October 4, 1907, at the Post Office at 
Pittsburgh, Pa., under act of March 3, 1879. Accepted for mailing at special
rates of postage provided for in the act of February 28, 1925.
Member of the Associated Collegiate Press.
Represented for national advertising by National Advertising, Inc.
Tech Rifle Team 
Tied For Lead 
In Local League
Friday evening Techs rifle team 
defeated the W&J sharpshooters 
1395 to 1374 on the Tech range. 
Big guns for Tech were Jack 
Brown with 284 and Vic Polansky 
with 281.
Tech is now tied with Duquesne 
for the lead in the Greater Pitts
burgh Intercollegiate Rifle League. 
Each team has a record of three 
wins and no defeats.
Scores
CIT
Brown ................................... 284
Polansky............................. 281
Jenkins ............................... 278
Brastow '............................. 276
Humes ................................. 276
W&J
Trew ................................... 289
Raymond ....................*   275
Miller ................................. 274
Turcke ............................... 269
Temple ............................... 267
Hungary
[continued from page 1] 
with labor representatives. Dr. 
Norman Dawes of Techs history 
department will also speak.
Student Congress May Act 
The purpose of the meeting is 
simply to demonstrate the objec
tion of U.S. citizens to the oppres
sion of the Hungarians. Another 
way in which a student may pro
test is to support the World Uni
versity Service which has tele
graphed the Campus Chest for 
funds to help Hungarian students. 
Campus Chest is not going to ap
peals to students for individual do
nations but will ask the organiza
tions to contribute to this emer
gency fund.
In a special meeting yesterday, 
Student Congress considered 
drafting a formal protest resolu
tion of condemnation of Russian 
aggression in Hungary.
Debate
The Debate Clubs fall novice 
tournament here at Tech on No
vember 14, was one of the largest 
of its kind in this area. A total of 
ten teams participated from eight 
different schools. The school rep
resented were: Grove City, West
minister, Geneva, Washington and 
Jefferson, Mt. Mercy, Pitt, Du
quesne, and Tech. The tourna
ment consisted of two rounds of 
debate followed by the announce
ment of results and refreshments 
in Porter Hall, Room 100, at 10:00 
p.m.
The future events on the clubs 
schedule are novice tournaments 
at Duquesne University on No
vember 20 and at Temple Univer
sity on November 30.
-tit 
Shoe Shine
The YWCA wishes to thank all 
the girls. who participated in the 
Shoe Shine Campaign. A great big 
thank you is in order to all the 
boys who co-operated not only 
by supplying many shoes to be 
shined, but also buttons and 
stripes to be sewed on uniforms.
So successful was this campa^h 
for everyone concerned, that the 
YW may initiate a Shoe Shine 
Day each month to raise money 
for worthy causes.
The drive held last Wednesday 
evening was reported a great suc
cess by chairman, Judy Berglund. 
At 6:00 p.m., 45 shoe shine girls 
left Morewood Gardens for the 
fraternity houses and mens 
dorms. They returned at 7:00 ifci. 
with a grand total of $20.82.
This money is going to be used 
to help finance a United Nations 
tour which will take place over 
Thanksgiving vacation. The Tech 
students and faculty members 
joining this tour will be able to 
visit New York and attend the 
General Assembly with college 
students from all over the United 
States.
Student Chorus
Because of its popularity last 
season, Carl Orffs Carmina Burana will again be given at Syria 
Mosque by the music department 
student chorus of Tech and the 
Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. 
Performances will be on Friday, 
December 7 at 8:40 p.m. and on 
Sunday, December 9 at 3:10 p.m. 
The chorus, conducted by Profes
sor Roland Leich, will havens 
guest soloist soprano Sylvia 
Stahlman who also sang the part 
last year.
'PeJtYttonrfV,
Q., ACOWͻUl'w,na'
t, GWt--
u/oYvt
Youll save tooand often get there sooner 
IN GREYHOUND LOW-COST LUXURY ( 
on hundreds of trips like these:
Akron, Ohio . . ... . $3.10
Altoona, Pa. . ..... 2.50
.... 2.50
Buffalo, N. Y...___6.30
Canton, Ohio . .2.50
Cleveland, Ohio___ 3.65
Columbus, Ohio___4.70
Detroit, Mich. .. . 7.60
.... 7.65
.... 3.90
Plus U.
Gettysburg, Pa. ... 4.60
Harrisburg, Pa........5.35
Johnstown, Pa. .... 1.75
Ligonier, Pa............1.30
Mansfield, Ohio .... 4.05 
Marietta, Ohio .... 4.15 
New York City, N. Y. 9.90 
Philadelphia, Pa. ... 7.80
Toledo, Ohio .........6.2F
Washington, D. C... 6.7
Save an Extra 10% Each Way with a Round-Trip Ticket
LIBERTY at GRANT 
GR 1-5700

---------------------------------------------------

Teedy, KT*.1er 2, 1WCARNEGIE TARTANPage 3
Westminster (in white) gain^ground in last Saturday's slaughter, 
Davis is carrying the ball around Techs right end.
On. Campus
withMaxShukan
(Author of #*Barefoot Boy with Cheek," etc.)
LITTLE STORIES WITH BIG MORALS
First Little Story
Once upon a time when the inventors of the airplane 
were very small boys, the roof on their house developed 
a terrible leak. A repairman was called to fix it. He set 
his ladder against the side of the house, but it was a 
very tall house and his ladder was not quite long enough 
to reach the roof.
Sir, we have an idea, said the boys who even at that 
tender age were resourceful little chaps. We will get 
up on top of the ladder and boost you up on the roof.
So the boys climbed to the top of the ladder, and the 
repairman came after them, and they tried to boost him 
up on the roof. But, alas, the plan did not work and they 
all came tumbling down in a heap.
MORAL: Two Wrights don't make a rung.
Second Little Story
Once upon a time a German exchange student came 
from Old Heidelberg to an American university. One 
night there was a bull session going on in the room next 
to his. Ach, excuse me, he said timidly to the group of 
young men assembled there, aber what is that heavenly 
smell I smell?
Why, that is the fragrant aroma of our Philip Morris 
cigarettes, said one of the men.
Himmel, such natural tobacco goodness V*
It comes in regular size in the handy Snap-Open pack,
or in long size in the new crushproof box-----Wont you
try one?
Dankeschn, said the German exchange student 
happily, and from that night forward, whenever the men 
lit Uj Philip Morris Cigarettes, he never failed to be 
present.
MORAL: Where theres smoke, theres Meyer.
Third Little Story
Once upon a time Penelope, the wife of Ulysses, had 
herself a mess of trouble in Ithaca. With her husband 
away at the Trojan War, all the local blades were wooing 
Penelope like crazy. She stalled them by saying she 
wouldnt make her choice until she finished weaving a 
rug. Each night when her suitors had gone home, Penel
ope, that sly minx, would unravel all the weaving she 
had done during the day.
Well sir, one night she left her rug lying outside. It 
rained buckets, and the rug got all matted and shrunken, 
and Penelope couldnt unwind it. When the suitors came 
back in the morning, the poor frantic woman started 
running all over the house looking for a place to hide.
Well sir, it happened that Sappho, the poetess, had 
come over the night before to write an ode about Penel
opes Grecian urn. So she said, Hey, Penelope, why 
dont you hide in this urn ? I think it^ big enough if youll 
kind of squinch down.
So Penelope hopped in the urn, and it concealed her 
perfectly except for her hair-do which was worn upswept 
in the Greek manner.
Well sir, with the suitors pounding on the door, Sap
pho had to move fast. She whipped out a razor and cut 
off Penelopes hair. The suitors looked high and low but 
they couldnt find Penelope.
MORAL: A Penny shaved is a Penny umed.
Max Shulman, 1956
Are you till with us? If so, settle your shattered nerves with 
a mild and tasty Philip Morris, natural tobacco goodness all 
the way through, made by the sponsors of this column.
Tartans End 56 Season With Loss 
To Undefeated Westminster Team
By Cherry Neimark ?
Last Saturday, on a beautiful 
sunlit afternoon, the little Tartans 
of Carnegie Tech went forth to 
meet the mighty Titans of West
minster College. The Titans, un
beaten in 20 games, proved that 
their record was well earned as 
they smashed Tech, 48 to 0.
Harold Davis, Westminsters 
star QB, ended a brilliant col
legiate career as he passed and 
ran like a pro. Actually,. Davis 
passing along with Techs lack of 
pass defense looked like the de
ciding factor in the game, for time 
and time again the Tech line was 
able to hold Westminsters ground 
attack only to have Davis com
plete a pass on third down.
Ficery and Myers Star
Techs standout in a hopeless 
cause were Ken Ficery and little 
Jeep Myers. The opening kickoff 
went to Myers and it seemed to 
the small group of Tech rooters 
that an upset might be in the 
making. Schmitz and Myers com
bined for a first down. Briner 
smashed for six. Schmitz knifed 
off tackle for twelve. Myers car
ried for seven but fumbled and 
Westminster recovered.
Westminster was stopped cold 
and was forced to punt. Tech took 
the ball on the thirteen, but once 
more fumbled on the first play. 
This seemed to take all the heart 
out of the team for on the very 
next play Davis rolled out around 
right end for the first TD of the 
game. From this point on it was 
the same sad story all through 
the game.
Early in the second quarter 
with Westminster on the move, 
Davis completed a long pass to the 
six, from which the fullback 
White blasted over for the score. 
Techs only other sustained drive 
came late in the second quarter. 
Quatse rammed center for three. 
Myers slid off tackle for five. 
Myers skirted end for the first 
down. Quates moved for three 
yards. A pass from Muth to Ficery 
was good for twelve yards. But on 
the next play Muths pass was in
tercepted. At this point Davis 
completed a beautiful forty yard 
jump pass which went for a 
[continued on page 4]
Phi Kaps: IM Football ChampsKing
Hvizdos Is MVP 
In IM Football
Phi Kaps field general, Bud 
Hvizdos, was voted the most valu
able player in the just completed 
IM football season. Bud has quar
terbacked his team to two unde
feated seasons in a row, and cul
minated his feats this year by 
leading them to the campus cham
pionship.
All Star Team
The Delts and Kappa Sigs each 
placed two on the all-school of
fense. The men were two fine 
passing combinations, Laughery 
and Mihm of DTD and Montini 
[continued on page 4]
IT IS NEVER
TOO LATE . .
One Hour Dry Cleaning Service 
Same Dry Shirt Service 
Rough Dry Laundry
All Work Done On Our Premises
Campus Cleaners
Phi Kappa Tops Kappa Sig; 
Takes 1956 IM Football Crown
By George Paris
Five hundred fans saw the Phi Kaps become 1956 IM football 
champs in one of the wildest and best played contests of the year.
The Phi Kaps defeated the Kappa Sigs 14-10 in the finals to gain 
the coveted title. Both teams were in the game down to the wire
? and neither team ever pulled far 
enough ahead to have a safe lead.
The IM playoffs began with a 
couple of lop-sided contests as 
ATO defeated the Met Grads 41- 
9 and the Delts ran over the Beta 
Sigs 25-14.
Phi Kappa threw up an impreg
nable defense against ATO, while 
all leaguers, Hvizdos, Keyser, and 
Visconti carried the bulk of the 
offense to lead Phi Kaps to a 27-9 
victory. Keyser made two great 
catches for TDs that kept the 
Phi Kaps rolling.
Meanwhile, the Kappa Sigs and 
Delts fought down to the wire in 
a high scoring contest with the K 
Sigs winning 28-25. Both quarter
backs, Montini and Laughery, 
were passing and hitting their 
targets with ease but when the 
final whistle blew, the K Sigs had 
that big three-point lead to win 
the game.
As the final game approcached, 
it seemed impossible to pick a 
sure winner and that is exactly 
what happened on Wednesday. 
The game ended in a 26-26 tie and 
officials and team captains decid
ed to play the contest on Thurs
day. Phi Kappa did blow a nine 
point lead in the fourth quarter 
of this contest as the spirited K 
Sigs fought back for the tie.
Thursdays contest was as nip 
and tuck as any game could pos
sibly be. The Phi Kappas took an 
8-1 lead at half time as the Hviz
dos-Visconti combination which 
worked all season clicked for first 
downs and a TD. However in the 
third quarter a Montini to Casey 
aerial was good for five and a 
safety from a blocked punt put 
Kappa Sigs ahead 10-9. The Phi 
Kaps, not to be denied, marched 
right down the field finally scor
ing on a Visconti to Keyser pass. 
The Phi Kaps held the 14-10 lead 
the rest of the way, putting off 
several Kappa Sig scoring at
tempts in the last few minutes.
All-School IM Football Team Austin
Left to right: Casey, KS; Hvizdos, PK; Achilles, ATO; Montini, 
KS; Mihm, DTD; (Laughery, DTD, missing).
Contest Winner
The early season accuracy of 
Tech students in picking correct 
winners has disappeared in the 
recent contests. Instead of only 
missing one or two contests the 
winners are now missing four or 
five which is probably due to the 
more even matching in recent 
games.
This weeks winner is Robert 
Deremer, a senior mechanical en
gineer from Glassport, Pannsyl! vania. In winning the contest, Bob 
I missed three Big Ten contests, th*i 
Harvard victory over Brown, and 
1 the Cornell win over Dartmouth.

---------------------------------------------------

Ti** iCARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, November ,195
This page edited by Evening School Students of the 
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Editor .................................................................................................. Emily Muhic
Reporter ............................................................................. John Van Holt, Jr.
Help Wanted
By Emily Muhic
The Plaid is not a one-woman 
newspaper so wont you please 
help and contribute news or items 
of interest?
Many students expressed a de
sire to be reporters, but to date 
the only help has been the Side
line News and Views by John 
Van Holt, one article by Dolores 
Neff and several notes of interest 
from Mr. Dalziel McKelway. Even 
the free cokes and pretzels have 
not enticed anyone to come to the 
Plaid office on Friday night. 
Yours truly is quite busy but 
takes time to be of service to you.
Reporters Needed
Last week, thanks to Vince Golobic and several other fellows 
who gave my car a push and got 
it started running, there was an 
issue of the paper. This week I 
left my papering and painting to 
come inif youve moved and 
done all the papering and paint
ing yourself you know what a 
chore it isyet in spite of these 
things and other work I am willVarsity
[continued from page 3] 
touchdown. Halftime score: 28-0.
The early part of the second 
half was much like the first half 
with Westminster making large 
gains through the air. After scor
ing two touchdowns in the second 
half the Westminster subs got in
to the game. The two teams push
ed the ball back and forth be
tween them for about ten minutes. 
Then the Westminster coach put 
in his starting team for the last 
time, eight of the starters being 
seniors. They quickly passed for 
another TD and then left the 
game for good.
Bowling
Entries for IM bowling are 
due November 27; play will 
begin on December 1. All in
dependent teams are required 
to pay the bowling fee before 
play commences.
S150 In Prizes 
For Best Essays
Again this year an Alumni 
Fund will offer prizes up to 
$150.00 for essays on community 
and government problems, with 
all undergraduates in E&S, PM, 
and IM eligible for the contest. 
The preliminary entries will be 
due in mid-February, and fuller 
announcements will be made next 
month.
But students who have prom
ising ideas should be reminded of 
the chance that this coming week
end gives them time to work over 
a possibility or to pick up evi
dence. An information sheet on 
the contest is available at the his
tory office (A.H. 132-A).
FOR COMPLETE 
HARDWARE, PAINT, 
and GIFT SELECTIONS
 Try Us First 
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 Forbes St. - MA 1-0923
Pthi Most Modern Dance Spot
PGH.DANCE CLUB
More Than Just A Ballroom*
Sherwyn Hotel hi"*1 AauU
FBI.. OCT. 12t P.M. to 1 A.M. 
And every Friday thereafter 
ORCHESTRA ^ Tech Invited
ing to devote a few hours a week 
to the paper.
Many times two groups have a 
meeting or social affair at the 
same time, being only one person 
I cannot attend both; so it would 
be greatly appreciated if a re
port is brought or sent in. The 
box is No. 256 or just address 
your mail to the Plaid and send 
it through intra-school mail.
What Is Going On?
Carnegie Tech is a large school 
with about 1519 evening students 
attending many classes. There are 
things happening in these classes, 
which would be of interest to 
the students  wont someone 
submit this information? There 
are many meetings and social 
events, judging by the bulletin 
board in the Carnegie Union, but 
where are the publicity chair
men?
I hope this final appeal will 
bring results.
All Stars
ByDaveaStn dTDr hpEt 3]
and Casey of KS. Norm Achilles 
of ATO and Phi Kaps Hvizdos 
rounded out the team.
The defensive team presents a 
formidable array which our myth
ical offense could have trouble 
penetrating. Sowell of KS, Dick
inson of DTD, and Karcher of the 
Static Charges make up the line. 
The ball-hawking backs are Mihm, 
Visconti, and Sphon.
The teams were picked by the 
Managers club and IM board, as 
were the following All-League 
teams:
Skibo League
End.................................Mihm, DTD
End.................................Butler, Met.
Center ....,..........Anderson, TX
Back ...................... Laughery, DTD
Back.................... Sphon, DTD
Back .............................Wilton, DTD
Kiltie League
End ..............................Swaney, ATO
End ........................................Casey, KS
Center......................Achilles, ATO
Back ........................... Doney, PiKA
Back ............................. Montini, KS
Back ............................. Richie, ATO
Tartan League
End .............................. Bartosh, BSR
End .....................................Keyser, PK
Center .................. BrinkerhofT, SN
Back .............................Hvizdos, PK
Back.......................... Visconti, PK
Back........................Waxman, BSR
STANDARD OIL COMPANY 
OF CALIFORNIA
CALIFORNIA RESEARCH CORPORATION 
AND OTHER SUBSIDIARIES
Representatives will be on the campus 
HOV. 27 
to interview
CHEMICAL, ELECTRICAL, 
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
CHEMISTS, MATHEMATICIANS, METALLURGISTS
for career employment 
in California and other areas
ii).>
John Nettleton wants to know:
How would a 
graduate degree 
affect my chances 
for advancement 
at Du Pont?
John C. Nettleton expects to receive his B.S. in chemical engineer
ing from Villanova University in June 1957. He has served as presi
dent of the student chapter of A.I.Ch.E., and as secretary of Phi 
Kappa Phi fraternity. John is now wondering about the pros and 
cons of advanced study in his field.
Robert J. Buch, M.S., Ch.E., came to the Engineering Devel
opment Section of Du Ponts Grasselli Research Division from 
the University of Louisville four years ago. Since then, he has 
engaged in many kinds of chemical engineering work, from pilotplant operation to evaluation of the potential of proposed re
search programs. Within the last year, Bob has taken the re
sponsibility of procuring B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. technical gradu
ates in all phases of chemistry and chemical engineering for the 
Grasselli Research Division.
A
n advanced degree would undoubtedly have a favorable 
, effect in technical work, John, but let me enlarge on 
that just a little. In your own field (and mine, too) a 
higher degree is considered to be evidence of ability in 
carrying out original research. It is therefore helpful in 
obtaining work in research and development, where that 
skill is definitely important. You might say that it gives a 
man a head start in proving his ability in those areas.
Its less important in some other areas, though. For 
example, in production or sales work ability for handling 
human relationships is just as important for advancement 
as technical competence. If an engineer is sold on pro
duction work or sales, a graduate degree in marketing 
or business administration might be more helpful to him 
than advanced technical training in getting started.
But Ive noticed this at Du Pont. Once a man lands a 
job in his chosen field and actually begins to work, his 
subsequent advancement depends more on demonstrated 
ability than on college degrees. Thats true throughout 
the entire companyin scientific work, administration, 
or what not.
So an advanced degree is not a royal road to anything 
at Du Pont, John. But when coupled with proven abili
ties, it is unquestionably helpful to a man in research and 
development work. It often gets him off to a faster start*
Are you Interested in research work?
About 2,000 Du Pont scientists are currently engaged in 
research, aided by some 3,500 other employees. Laboratory 
facilities of the highest quality are available at the Du Pont 
Experimental Station near Wilmington, and elsewhere 
throughout the country. Information about research at 
Du Pont is given in Du Pont Research. Write for your 
copy of this free 28-page booklet to the Du Pont Company, 
2521 Nemours Building, Wilmington, Delaware.
*M.u.s.ntt.orfk
BETTER THINGS FOR BETTER IIVINO . . . THROUGH CHEMISTRY
Watch Du Pont Cavalcade Theater" on television
fa
&
0
