By MONICA CELLIO
Tartan News Editor
Two students are needed to fill positions 
on the University Disciplinary Committee.
Brad Walter, Dean of Student Affairs, will 
be interviewing applicants this month. 
 Interested students should call his office at 
578-2076.
The Disciplinary Committee hears cases 
involving violations of University policies
from
introduced to CMU students. This one, 
however, is composed of students them
selves. The name? The Residence Hall Judi
cial Board.
The seven member board meets once a 
week to investigate disciplinary cases. "It is 
mainly a fact finding group, said Tony 
Martin, director of housing. The idea of 
students themselves getting involved in the 
discipline process first evolved last year 
when responsibility for the quality of resi
dence hall life, including discipline, was 
shifted from the Office of Student Affairs to 
the Housing Office. I thought it would be a 
good idea to get students involved, said 
Martin.
The Judicial Board investigates all cases 
in which the accused has denied the charge. 
It also will handle any case if requested. 
Most charges arent denied; therefore, most 
cases last year did not come up before the 
board. After reviewing a case the board then 
sends their results and recommendations to 
Assistant Director Jerry Marks, who handles 
disciplinary cases in the Housing Office. 
This recommendation weighs heavily in the
final decision.
Of the 196 disciplinary cases last year, 
only eighteen students went before the Judi
cial Board. Martin was pleased and sur
prized at the success of something so new. 
The students were well chosen and took the 
responsibility seriously. Both Martin and 
Marks agreed that the board wasnt used 
enough last year.
If you want a chance to be on the board, 
there is still time. You can get your applica
tions from an RA and all you have to do is 
turn it in to your RA or the Housing: Office 
by October 1.
In this issue
Editorial
Psychology today..................................page 2
News
SU PA holds labor conference.........page 6
BMI awards composers.......................page 8
Features
White water rafting..............................page 9
Video art..............................................page 11
Entertainment
Interview with Gene Roddenberry page 13
E. T. reviewed..................................page 14
Sports
Cross Country tournament meet . page 17 
Volleyball wins................................page 18
The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 83, Number 4, September 28, 1982.
Dorm judicial board recruits
Beaux Arts
I CFA tradition postponed
By JOANNE SAVIN ELL
Tartan Associate News Editor
The sounds of music and dancing, charac
teristic of the Beaux Arts Ball, will be absent 
from the halls of the Fine Arts building this
year.
The Beaux Arts planning committee, 
which includes Akram Midani, dean of 
CFA, Lorelei ODonnell, assistant to the 
dean, and representative students, decided at 
the time of the last ball, February 1981, to 
' hold one every four years. The next ball will 
be in 1985.
One of the reasons for postponing the 
hsball, according to ODonnell, is the large 
i^iount of time and work involved in its 
planning. She believes that holding the ball 
less often will make it more of a special CFA 
event.
new liquor policy, it would be extremely 
difficult to enforce the regulations with stu
dents under 21 present.
Lack of funds is not a problem, said 
ODonnell, since the ball earns a profit.
The Beaux Arts tradition, originating at 
the LEcole des Beaux Arts, was brought to 
CMU by Henry Hombostle, a teacher from 
the LEcole. The ball has normally been 
held every four years, although the most 
recent ones were two years apart.
The Beaux Arts is a masquerade ball open 
only to the Fine Arts college. According to 
ODonnell, the floors are packed 
faculty, staff, and students, and bands play
ing a variety of types of music are found 
throughout the building. The ball lasts 
through the night and is closed by a chamSecondly, ODonnell said that with the pagne breakfast.Newsweek correspondent speaks
Eleanor Clift, White House correspond
ent for Newsweek, will open the Presidents 
Distinguished Lecture Series next Monday.
Clift has served as one of Newsweeks two 
White House correspondents since 1976. 
While still a correspondent in the maga
zines Atlanta, Ga., Bureau, she was 
assigned to cover Jimmy Carters bid for the 
Presidency' in October 1975, when he was 
still considered a dark horse candidate.
Clift chronicled Carters ascent, staying 
with his campaign from its first primary 
victory to his election night triumph and his
Its a news beat she continues to cover (shar
ing it with co-White House correspondent 
Tom De Frank) during the 
Administration.
Clift came to Newsweek as an Editorial 
Assistant in the National Affairs section in 
1963. She transferred to the Adanta Bureau 
in 1966 as a correspondent, and moved to 
Washington-with the Carters--and the 
White House assignment in January 1977.
Clift attended Hofstra University and 
Hunter College in New York, and is a
subsequent four years in the White House, member of th Adanta Press Club.
Walter seeks UDC members
lower judicial boards.
The Student Senate recently appointed 
two students to temporarily fill the spots, 
but Walter would like permanent members 
within a few weeks.
photo by Chuck Hartmann
The Great Bird of the Galaxy landed at CMU last week to address a sellout crowd in the 
Skibo Ballroom. See story on page 15.
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Last year a new disciplinary board was
photo by Clark V. Simmons
This years blood drive drew 289 donors from the student body, more than in any previous 
year. The 3rd floor of McGill (Larry Jennings, RA) had 22 donors out of 27 residents, and 
will be given the choice of a pizza party or dinner at a local restaurant.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Can Counseling Center cure criminals at CMU?
Wilkes-Barre, 13 people were shot the day 
before Yom Kippur. It was especially outstand
ing because it happened not too far from Pitts, burgh, and The New York Times carried the 
story on their front page.
$40,000 worth of equipment was stolen from 
CMU buildings. It was especially outstanding 
because the crime was master-minded and car
ried out entirely by students at CMU, and The 
Tartan carried it on the front page.
Granted, murder and grand larceny are not 
obviously comparable, neither for that matter 
are The Tartan and the New York Times. 
After all, how could a few computer terminals 
hurt a multi-million dollar operation? But, 
one still wonders what made them do it? 
Thrills? Anger? Resentment? Adventure? The 
need for attention?
We were glad to hear that the Universitys 
Disciplinary system is taking action against 
the guilty parties including, restitution of the 
cost of the stolen property and fines, accord
ing to Brad Walter, the Acting Dean of Student
Affairs. See letter on page 3.
No, maybe comparing grand larceny to 
murder is unfair especially when the crimi
nals have promising careers in their futures. 
One cannot help but remember G. Gordon 
Liddys practical, business-like philosophyget the job done. Even when the job meant 
breaking the law, or killing someone. Yes, the 
students involved will probably end up being 
the presidents of companies in their lifetimes. 
What will they rationalize committing at that 
level?
It is unfair of us to make assumptions about 
people we do not know. Our argument is not, 
however, directed at individuals but at the 
CMU community.
How effective is our disciplinary system?
Perhaps the Counseling Center could play a 
greater role in the disciplinary process. Make a 
student who is convicted of a crime  like 
theft, vandalism, brawling, etc.  attend a 
session at the Center as part of his discipline.
If an entire fraternity could not see the prob
lems their brothers were having, then maybe 
something is missing here at CMU. Some
thing that even brothers or RAs cannot 
provide.
Some positive suggestions were brought for
ward at President Cyerts last student lun. 
cheon. The Counseling Center is too recessed. 
Perhaps if it were in Skibo, or if there were 
branches throughout the campus like an office 
in Health Services (Morewood).
Are Resident Assistants screened properly 
enough to help students when and if they are 
in psychological trouble? The RAs undergo 
about two weeks of counseling training, but 
this may not be sufficient in preparing them 
for real student problems. When Peer Help, 
the now defunct student counseling center,* 
was in existence, those counselors went 
through a rigorous 6 week program.
Psychological health is important, perhaps 
too important to trust to just one small office, 
and a few very busy upperclassmen.
Value of individual vs. society debated
By John Stilwell
In the fraternity response Richard Keegan 
published in The Tartan last week, he made 
several statements based upon what he 
apparently considers to be a proper relation^ ship between the individual and 
jjijP society.
^ Mr. Keegan expressed his
opinion with tongue-in-cheek 
remarks like Wouldnt life be merry if we
want to do and Perhaps you think its 
better to sit under a tree and think about 
your feelings ... and what you want todo.
Well Mr. Keegan, I DO think its better 
and I DO go my own way, and I dont find it 
merry, I find it enjoyable. I also find it 
incomprehensible spending life learning 
to get along with others; something you 
place quite a bit of emphasis upon.
Theres no reason for each individual to
society  each person, as an individual 
determines the nature of society as a whole.
I recognize the importance of interacting 
with the people around me, but that does 
not mean that I must hold intellectual, idealogical or social impressions similiar to 
those people. Your attitude that "one often 
has to sacrifice his own interests and 
youre going to have to adapt to fit in the 
world appalled me  my personality and
all went our own way, doing what (we) make an "attempt at becoming part of development are the most ultimately impor-Benefits of space exploration revivedi
By Stuart Shapiro
When Gene Roddenberry started ram
bling about the awe inspiring humanistic 
transcendentalism of space (both inner and 
outer) last Wednesday evening, a few of the 
~ people around me had some difficulty suppressing their snide 
snickers. I really cant blame 
 them. Expecting a discourse on
the more esoteric aspects of Star Trek, they 
were instead treated to Rodden berrys medi
tations on human destiny. I must admit that 
the Great Bird of the Galaxy did lay it on a 
bit thick and a trifle corny. But all in all, I 
think he may have had a point. It started me 
thinking once again about how far weve 
come and how much further we still have to
goI was nine years old when I watched Neil 
Armstrong set a human foot upon another 
planet for the first time. (Its already getting 
hard to believe that I was ever that young.) 
Even though I didnt fully appreciate the 
significance of that accomplishment, I still 
remember the shiver that ran down my back.
I like to think that deep down inside, I real
ized that I was observing a moment that 
would alter the course of human history. I 
' doubt that I would have expressed it exacdy 
that way thirteen years ago, but I figure I 
might as well make use of my now some
what more advanced vocabulary and style of 
prose. At any rate, the more I look back on 
that day, the more certain I am that it repres
ented much more than just the technologi
cal triumph of Yankee ingenuity over 
godless communism.
I cant help believeing that those involved 
in the U. S. space effort could not possibly 
have achieved what they did motivated 
solely by patriotic fervor. For many of them,
I think, sending a man to the moon and 
returning him safely to the earth was not 
^^m^^^j^tte^^etung^on^ip^rwhe^
Russians. It was a way erf getting one up on 
an indifferent universe.
So they decided to put a man on the moon 
to show that humanity was getting ready to 
pull itself out of the mire. As Rodden berry' 
noted, just as men had climbed Mt. Everest, 
men went into space because it was there. 
Just like Everest, the space effort exacted its 
price. Their names were Grissom, White, 
and Chaffee.
Now, with the space shuttle about to pro
vide regular service into space and all the 
talk of the potential commercial and mil
itary uses of space, that first faltering step 
loses some of its romantic sheen. As the 
luster erf space exploration has dimmed, so 
has public support. As the budgets continue 
to shrink, so dies our ability to make our
way further into the surrounding universe. 
Getting into space just for the sake of getting 
there is supplanted by visions of profits and 
the balance of power.
Space may have lost much of its inspira
tional quality for most people. But not for 
those like Rodden berry or those in the 
audience who felt a shiver while those 
around them made snide comments.
I have nothing against Star Trek. Im a 
fan of long standing. When all is said and 
done, however, it remains just a television 
show. But space is the final frontier.
Meanwhile, the space program goes limp
ing along...........
Stuart Shapiro is a graduate student and is 
a columnist for The Tartan.
Value of human life forgotten
By Christopher Johnston
I read a headline the other day that said 
hundreds erf Palestinians had been slaught
ered by Christian Phalangists. I even found 
time to read the lead paragraph before I had 
to rush to my next class. After 
all, life goes on.
^ Hundreds erf Palestinians
v" doesnt say much, except that a
bunch of people who used to be Palestinians 
are dead. Perhaps it shouldnt. Americans 
seem to like their news concise, so newspap
ers are sympathetic to pedantic CMUers 
who only have moments to mourn dead 
people during their treks between ivory tow
ers. Besides, numbers are easier to handle 
than the actual mental picture of carnage.
Numbers mean nothing to a witness of 
multiple executions. The bodies blend 
together into a mosiac of flesh and blood. 
Political stability comes to those bent into 
comic positions, their internal organs
strewn about them. Take my life... please! 
Once dead, most everybody looks the same 
whether Jew, Arab, or Christian and cheap 
comedy finds its niche.
I dont mean to make some cliched state
ment about the horrors erf war, or even try to 
warm the calloused cockles of your litde 
heart to the cause erf the Palestinian dead. I 
only want to point out that in this well 
ordered and statisticized country, you arent 
as exposed to the reality of other people. But 
perhaps you ought to recognize it for what it 
is, not a set of numbers.
How does this whole macabre idea affect 
you? I know that you dont want to deal 
with it, and its so far away that you dont 
have to, yet. Still, as you scan the rest of the 
Tartan, and angrily read about tuition 
increases, excitedly peruse future social hap
penings, and curse the moral outrage of the
school alcohol policy, keep in mind that 
continued on page 4
tant things I have! Why do you expect me to 
sacrifice them?
Mr. Keegan, you asked in your letter if it is 
wrong to start adapting now  in college  
to fit in the real world when we graduate. 
My answer to you is that this IS the real 
world and your life is the moment you are 
living now.
You decide if you want to live your life 
adapting, but dont suggest that I, or anyone 
else should be social conformists.
John Stilwell is a junior in AMS and is 
photography editor for The Tartan.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. 
Letters-to-the-Editor are opinions of individual 
authors who are usually members of the University 
community. A letter intended for publication must be* 
signed and include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld upon 
request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or 
reject any letter.Tlielaitan.
Editor-in-Chief...............................Alice Alfonsi
Managing Editor...............................Vince Guinto
Editorial Assistant.............................Gregg Bossier
Business Manager..............................Louise Croooll
News Editor.................................Monica CcWicff^1
Features Editor............................... Geof Becker |
Entertainment Editor....................Susan Petrie |
Sports Editor.................................Jeff Bergman
Photography Editor.....................John Stilwell
Typesetting Manager....................Patti Carlisle
Associate News Editor.............Joanne Savinell
Assoc Photo Editor ......................Gene Yonish
Asst Entertainment ........................John Cantine j
Asst. Sports Editor...............................Ric Medrow
Asst Business Man...................Kathleen Wasch |
Production Staff: Peter Bain, Margaret Eissler,^ ^ 
Andrew Ghali, Pauline Kramer, Ross Serin, Jean 
Siegel, Carol Speranza, Cars ten Thode, Dan 
Tobias, Bonnie Topf, and Pauline Wen.
Copyright  1982 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board 
reserves the right to withhold from publication any 
copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Off < v 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52,, 
(412) 578-2111. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailing 
address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213- 
Funded by the Activities Fee. (
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

September 28, 1982The TartanPage 3
Letters
Dean disciplines student crime
Editor
Because of the seriousness of the major 
campus thefts described in last weeks Tar
tan it is important to me to communicate to 
the campus community as quickly as possi
ble the seriousness with which the Univer
sity considers those actions and the steps it is 
taking to insure that proper action is taken.
After careful analysis during the summer 
the Division of Student Affairs with the help 
of Campus Police reached the conclusion 
that a small group of students was deeply 
involved and held a major responsibility for 
the most significant thefts. Insuring that 
these students are dealt with equitably gua
ranteeing no violation of their rights is a 
slow and tedious process. Severe discipli
nary action has been take.i in some cases and 
is pending in others. A second group of 
students were involved either as accomplices 
or independendy in less serious thefts and 
summary actions involving restitution of 
the cost of stolen property and fines have 
already been taken in the cases of five stu
dents. Three other students are being held 
for review by the Disciplinary Committee; 
some of those cases are now in progress. In 
each case the Disciplinary Committee is 
being asked to consider expulsion as a possi
ble action because of the seriousness of the
CMU chaplains 
don't compete
Editor:
As a member of the Camegie-Mellon 
Campus Ministry Council I would like to 
respond to the article by Chris Johnston: 
Religion and Brownies Dont Mix. Mr. 
Johnston implies that the campus cha
plains are aiming to be competitive ecclesi
astical forces on campus and we were each 
laying our own religious traps at the 
Activities Fair September 15. The purpose of 
the council is to bring together various reli
gious traditions in order to meet the spirit
ual needs erf CMU students and members of 
the council have a high degree of respect for 
each others traditions.
Obviously, Mr. Johnston does not have 
that kind of respect Furthermore, he calls 
himself a hard-core agnostic. He certainly 
must have studied the Bible thoroughly in 
order to reject it; an intelligent CMU student 
would never arbitrarily dismiss something 
he had not first investigated.
Meg Durkin 
Campus Worker 
Shady side Presbyterian Church
cnmes.
The Universitys commitment to protect
ing the confidentiality of the Disciplinary 
proceedings makes it difficult to provide 
more specific information without reveal
ing the identity of the students whose rights 
would then be violated.
Because all these thefts emanate from one 
specific fraternity the Division has taken 
severe administration action by placing the 
Delta Upsilon fraternity on probation fora 2 
year period, requiring the National Frater
nity to supply a resident advisor who with 
the Alumni will manage the affairs of the 
house during the period of probation. 
Clearly any further violation would result in 
the withdrawl of the charter of the Frater
nity. This last set of sanctions has been 
imposed after a good bit of serious thought 
and anguish. The values which this frater
nity as opportunity to recapture them and to 
serve the campus with the distinctions it 
once showed.
Braden L. Walter, Acting Dean 
Division of Student Affairs
<3AT(]RDAy EVM
T5 ALL. REEK. TO ME*
DU's probation won't affect service
Editor:
The Brothers of Delta Upsilon Fraternity 
wish to clarify the recent events concerning 
our chapter. This past July, Rob Wagner 
and Dave Hlasnik were arrested and charged 
with the theft of University property. Dur
ing the remainder of the summer, the Uni
versity Disciplinary Committee has 
sanctioned two other brothers. The discipli
nary actions imposed on them were of an 
extremely serious nature.
The fraternity does not, in any way, con
done the actions of these members and 
would like to stress that their actions were as 
individuals and not as representatives of the 
fraternity. As a whole, the fraternity was not 
aware of these major thefts. Again, we 
would like to state that these actions are in 
the process of expelling from the fraternity 
those members that were involved.
As has been previously stated by the Uni
versity and The Tartan, the fraternities at 
large are responsible for the actions of its 
members. We acknowledge this standard 
and accept responsibility. As a result of this 
incident, the Dean of Student Affairs has 
informed us that we are being placed on a 
two-year probation. During the probation
ary period, the University will keep the fra
ternity under close scrutiny, but allow it to 
function as usual. Second, the fraternity will 
be required to remove from office those 
members who held an executive position
during the period of the thefts. Third, the 
fraternity will be required to provide a resi
dent advisor to assist the fraternity during its 
probationary period. Lastly, the fraternity 
must parallel the action taken by the Uni
versity against those four members that were 
involved. We would like to thank the 
administration and especially the Dean of 
Student Affairs for their willingness to work 
with us on this matter. Further, we are wil
ling to agree to follow the guidelines as they 
have been explained.
Delta Upsilon has always been and will 
continue to be an integral part in the plan
ning and execution of campus and com
munity activities. Delta Upsilon will 
continue to provide responsible service pro
jects for the community as demonstrated by 
our Bed Push for Childrens Hospital. 
This project received the award for the Best 
Community Relations Service from the 
International Fraternity. We will continue 
to strive for excellence in all that we do, with 
unity and a sense of purpose. As a brother
hood of just men, we are proud to be the 
Carnegie Chapter of Delta Upsilon 
Fraternity.
The Brothers of Delta Upsilon Fraternity
Religion and brownies mix
Editor:
Chris Johnstons article last week on 
Religion and Brownies Dont Mix was 
written in a light-hearted way, but the issues 
raised are no joke. There are Christians on 
this campus who have a real, deep faith in 
the Lord Jesus Christ. Many of Chris John
stons comments were misinformed as well 
as insensitive.
Jesus is our Lord and Savior, not our 
product, calling card, or merchandise. We 
serve Him, not market Him.
If anyone really wonders if we have 
gleaned the message (Jesus) was trying to 
get across, we suggest he study that mes
sage himself. He should leam what it is that
these people calling themselves His follow
ers are not trying to be a competitive eccle
siastical force, but to serve our Lord, to give 
Him honor, and to love all people, as He 
Himself loves them.
Religion and brownies do mix, since faith 
is present in every part of our lives.
Rob Troy 
Jr. EE 
Janet Beyer 
Junior Math/Physics 
Elizabeth Armstrong 
Soph. Mech. Engineering 
Bill Jacob 
Soph. AMS/GCMIIIndependent" engineers decry Greek's opinion
Editor
In last weeks Tartan Richard Sean Kee
gan expounded upon the virtues of the lov
ing and lovable Greeks who are good 
enough to cooperate with independents, 
despite their anarchistic tendencies.
This unselfish love is fine and dandy 
except that we dont recall ever seeing it. 
However, we have lost track of the times we 
have seen people in Greek letter shirts stag
gering about campus, dragging a "mobile 
unit in one arm and a girl who wants It, 
Big Time in the other. Keegan may con
sider this only an ugly stereotype but if so, 
why is it repeated so often?
R.S.K. also seems to misunderstand the 
nature of organizations. If membership enti
tles one to the good activities of a group, 
then they also become responsible for the 
undesirable actions of that groups 
members. If you are concerned about the 
violent minority, Richard, please tell us
what you have done to effect the removal of 
these individuals from the Greek system.
Keegan also believes that by joining a 
fraternity he is "merely continuing (in a 
more intimate way) the social process started 
when we entered first grade. What 
frightens us is that most people, from the 
beginning of their thinking lives, have 
accepted what was given to them without 
ever inquiring into the priciples underlying 
their society.
Granted, some have done this but we have 
found few that have also decided to join a 
fraternity. We realize that other people have 
different wants and feelings and we ay to 
respect their beliefs. What we dislike is Kee
gans implication that we are anarchists or 
are unable to live in society because we dont 
go along widi the majority. Incidentally, 
since Greeks are only about fifteen per cent 
of the campus community (and certainly
much less than half of the general popula
tion), why dont they "adapt to our way of 
life?
Were called independents now because 
we have different ideas, but in the past weve
been known as heretics, rabble-rousers, seditionists, communists, hippies, etc. for the 
reason that we felt that just because some
thing is done a particular way does not 
continued on page 4
St. Basil's defends religion
Editor
An open letter to Chris Johnston:
I suppose your column last week was 
tongue-in-cheek, but I believe you also put 
your foot in your mouth this time.
We of St. Basils Orthodox Christian Fel
lowship do not lure students to our faith 
with wafers and wine in fact, we dont 
even use wafers in our Divine Liturgy. Nor 
do we argue and bicker with other denomi
nations over the souls of prospective prose
lytes. What we do is offer Orthodoxy to 
those on campus who are too far away from
home to enjoy the benefits of their churches.
Our information table along with the 
others from the Campus Ministry Council 
two Wednesdays ago was just one way of 
letting the students of our own faith know 
that the Orthodox Christians are here and 
active on campus for those who wish to 
continue practicing their faith.
Paula Croussouloudis 
Soph. MCS 
Nicholas J. Gianaris 
Soph. MEMS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanSeptember 28, 1982
President speaks
Nate gives guidelines for political activism
By Nate Solano
Dear Forum,
I never thought Id be writing to you and I 
thought that most of your letters were fic
tional and youll probably never print this 
but . . .
You may ask,how can I (insert your 
name) become a college political activist in 
these troubled times. Strangely enough,
this question is asked me rather often. Being 
^ the fatherly-like President that I
. am, I have felt obligated to corn
er pile some guidelines for politi
cal activism on campus:
1.) Be willing to get arrested and possibly 
martyred.
2.) Be willing to live in a damp cave and 
eat insects.
3.) Never rewrite the Constitution when 
no one is looking.
4.) Leisure suits are definitely out.
5.) Never use Andy Stahl as a reference.
6.) Watch those dangling participles!
In general my office hours were very suc
cessful this week. In fact Wednesday the 
office was filled with both Senators, normal 
people, and beer. I will be in the office this
Discovering the past in stored junk
By Catherine Stroud Vodrey
Everybody has a bit of the packrat in 
them. Its amazing what people will store 
away for God-knows-what reasons. Packrats fall into two main categories: practical 
^ and sentimental. Practical pack>iP rats dreary things like
income tax forms and old bank 
statements. Sentimental packrats save the stubs from every movie theyve 
seen since the age of six.
Basically, Im a sentimental packrat; pho
tographs, postcards and concert programs 
lie in little clusters around my room. There 
used to be an old four-postered bed in my 
room, with wooden balls on the tip of each 
poster.
I discovered one day that one of these balls 
came off, revealing a tiny hollow in the 
wood. This made an ideal hiding place for 
third grade love notes I had saved (Do you 
love me? Check yes or no.)
Toothpaste caps are another biggie. For 
years, I devoted an entire desk drawer solely 
to toothpaste cap. For a litde while I had a 
valid excuse: I used them as miniature 
flower pots in my dollhouse.
However, at seventeen I still had this
drawerful of toothpaste caps. I could have 
made a miniature greenhouse at that point. 
Finally, urged by some not-so-subtle hints 
from my mother about mysterious bacteria, 
I tossed them out.
Last semester, while studying in a friends 
room, I got up to get myself a glass of water. 
Upon reaching into the freezer for some ice 
cubes, I pulled out instead a five dollar bill. I 
showed it to him, puzzled, but he wasnt the 
least bit disconcerted. I wont spend it if its 
in there, because I forget about it, he 
explained as though to an ignorant child. 
But if I ever need five bucks real quick, 
there it is.
Thats a practical saver for you. I couldnt 
save five dollars in the freezer if my life 
depended on it. Id always know it was there, 
and finally, after maybe four or five days of 
breaking out into a cold sweat whenever I 
thought of that unspent five dollars, I would 
nab it, run to Entropy, and joyously waste it 
on gum, Pop-Tarts and a People 
magazine.
Come to think of it, most erf the packrats I 
know are of the sentimental persuasion. 
Maybe thats because most of the people I 
know are in college, and were allowed to be
young and foolish and not worry about 
income taxes. Or maybe its just that its a lot 
more fun to find a Christmas card from a 
sixth-grade homeroom teacher than it is to 
find five-month old bills.
Catherine Stroud Vodrey is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing and is a colum
nist for The Tartan.
week Wednesday from 3:00 to 5:00 p.m. and 
Thursday 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. Remember my 
phone number is 687-6404 in case of any 
concerns.
Please write letters to Dear Nate. Last 
week I received three letters and the best of 
which was three words long. I dont care if 
they contain blind accusations or false iden
tities, just write them.
Lasdy I apologise for this column. This is 
the first week I can truthfully state that it 
contains no redeeming social value 
whatsoever.Regretfully
Nate Salano is a junior majoring in AMS 
and is president of the Student Government.
Dear Nate, when are you going to write 
about real campus issues?Ed.
Deadly fanatics can affect you
continued from page 2
there is always somebody blindly devoted to 
an ideal, who lives in black and white, not in 
the gray that most of us inhabit, who 
believes so strongly in what he/she is doing 
that they will kill anyone, even you.
deserved to die. Of course, this thing will 
never happen here in America, so it doesnt 
affect you much , does it?
Have a nice day.
Christopher Johnston is a sophomore 
majoring in creative writing and isacolumIn their eyes, you will have always nist for The Tartan.
Frat lifestyle challenged
continued from page 3
mean that way is right.
Finally, Keegans society reminded us of a 
central European political group of the 
1930s and 40s whose power base was the 
common man helping out for the good of 
the nation. They were proud to be called
Good Germans and could easily explain 
their deeds as either I didnt know it was 
happening or I was only following 
orders. Kurt Laughlin
Mech. E. Sr.
Tom Sullivan 
E.E. Soph.
There's not a shade of doubt. 
You should join Hielart2ii.
The Tartan staff meets every Monday at 8 p.m. in Skibo room 13.

---------------------------------------------------

September 28, 1982The TartanPage 5
Suggestions on how to put CMU on the proverbial map
By Paul Spillane
With last weeks column I went to the 
extremes of surrealism and impressionism; 
so this week my column is to be of a more 
pointed nature! First, we must choose an 
^ appropriate topic. Drinking
jjjP and the drinking policy? Per^ haps, but not just yet. Everyone
JV  is writing about that. Lets see.
Ive got it! Lets just start with a random 
dialogue.
Where do you go to school?
Camegie-Mellon. 
Oh. Wheres that?
Its a familiar sequence; weve all heard it. 
Usually, its just the persons polite way erf 
saying that theyve never heard of the place. 
And it bothers us a little, doesnt it? After all, 
our proud claim isnt as impressive as wed 
like it to be. And isn't that really what we 
i want?
We really go here so that later we can 
impress the hell out of potential employers 
and lets be honest  wed love people to 
kiss our college rings when we say were 
from CMU. CMU has a great name and is 
an excellent academic institution, but the 
average Joe has never heard of it. The prob
lem then is to place CMU on the map.
How does a school get recognition? Some 
would say by maintaining a high standard 
, of professional education or by being 
innovative . . . being on the leading edge in
all endeavors. But there are many unor
thodox methods as well. I say lets have some 
mass media exposure!
There are also several ways to get ones 
name in the headlines. How about a good 
administration sex scandal? The trick with 
that is to get a few deans and their staffs to go 
along with the idea. How about large scale 
military assaults between fraternity houses? 
The problem with this is that a few stray 
howitzer or bazooka rounds might hit Morewood Gardens. All of those casualties, at 
over $10,000 each per year, would be a 
shame. How about meltdown in one of the 
top secret nuclear experiments? No good  
a glowing school is of no use to anyone.
Botulism in the Tartan Grill? No  too 
messy to clean up afterward.
How about staging a massive rally; a pro
test bordering on a riot? We could clue in 
appropriate news personalities to insure 
maximum media exposure. Perhaps we 
could even persuade Walter Cronkite to 
appear as guest commentator. We could 
attract further attention by inviting promi
nent politicians. Its an election year; theyll 
use any opportunity to get their names in 
print or on television.
Now our rally needs a topic. If we could 
pull off a sufficiendy spectacular display, 
both in terms of numbers and of visual 
effects, this would be a significant first step
toward instilling the name erf CamegieMellon University into the mind of the aver
age Joe. Perhaps as our own Nate Solano 
has previously mentioned, we could protest 
this ridiculous tuition hike slated for next 
year. Perhaps we could organize a large 
angry mob to protest the insulting drinking 
policy, which brings us back to where this 
column began. This display could have 
social significance. I urge everyone to send 
suggestions for rally topics, as well as your 
own ideas on how to get CMU the attention 
it deserves, right here to The Tartan.
Paul Spillane is a freshman majoring in 
Social Sciences and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
Darn socks, they're a lot like us
By Orpheus Allison
Socks, those wonderful inventions erf 
modem man. Everywhere one goes, one sees 
red stripe, yellow stripe, blue stripe, purple 
stripe, green stripe, . . . Multiple lengths, 
^ sizes galore, filled with odor. 
Ever since man was given fire, 
and had found a need for this 
i dreaded piece of attire; he has
been faced with one serious problem. Socks 
move. Yes, they move.
From the time that one buys a package of 
socks; one can never tell when he will have 
to buy another package. This is because,
socks know that they are a status symbol. 
They realize that everyone wears a pair at 
sometime in their lives. And with the 
increased emphasis on physical exercise, 
more and more people are wearing socks.
Along with the use of socks comes their 
loss. Now some of this loss occurs through 
usage of the sock. Yet, this only accounts for 
a small amount of the loss. Other areas 
where socks are lost are the following:
Washers are notorious for eating your 
socks. No matter how often one attempts to 
tag and count ones socks before they are
Eco-week: A case against entitlements
By Wayne I. Cutler
The enormous projected budget, deficit 
has instilled a sense of pessimism in the 
future of the U. S. economy. Can the govern
ment finance its operations and at the same
* time reduce its deficit? What 
does this mean in terms erf infla
tion and unemployment? Will 
the American dollar lose value 
compared to the rest of the world currencies?
The antidote lies with a restructuring of 
the entidement program. Entidements 
including social security, medicare, medi
caid, aid to families with dependent child
ren, civil service pensions, unemployment 
benefits, and disability insurance accounted 
for 48% of the budget in 1981 and will proba
bly exceed 50% this year. Approximately 
6.7% of an individuals salary goes toward 
funding entidements.
It has been argued that the only function 
of any government is to protect its people, 
both defensively and judicially. Although 
this concept is rarely practiced, it does pro
vide a reference point when analyzing a 
governments role in society. Many govern
ments, including the United States, have 
dipped too far into their economies.
The three main government expenditures 
go toward interest payments, transfer pay
ments and defense. The latter one is the only 
expenditure that adds to the capital stock of 
America. Transfer layouts (entidements) 
only shift money from one sector 
(employed) to another sector (unemployed) 
while interest payments are a result high 
interest rates and huge borrowing needs 
brought on by runaway entidement costs, 
rhe United States government should cur
tail some of its transfer paying functions.
Social security benefits could be cut 2% per 
year, so in 50 years the program and all of its 
ailments would fade out. This strategy 
would allow individuals to slowly restruc
ture their future consumption needs while 
at the same time allow workers to enjoy a 
litde higher weekly salary and maybe look 
after their own social security plan.
As for unemployment, benefits should be 
scaled down to eight weeks of pay after the 
person leaves his/her job. More pressure 
needs to be placed on individuals to obtain a 
job. The system is abused by many who 
claim that theyve been looking for employ
ment while all theyve really been doing is 
complaining.
Even when unemployment is high, many 
people work in the underground econ
omy (working for someone off the books). 
In other words they dont declare their 
income and therefore dont pay taxes. The 
net effect of this is that they collect two 
salaries, one from the government and one 
from a job.
Even if the government doesnt want to 
cut out unemployment benefits, at least 
make the recipients add to the infrastructure 
of the nation by having them clean the 
streets, build new roads and bridges, or paint 
decaying buildings.
The medicare and medicaid programs are 
in good shape, but by 1990 these too will be 
in jeopardy. Reducing the percent of outlays 
for medical costs would alleviate any future 
problems while at the same time foster more 
competition in the health industry. When 
individuals have to pay for a larger portion 
of their medical costs, theyll shop
around and help curtail medical inflation.
Tax breaks and tax shelters need to be 
restructured to help finance non-profit insti
tutions and create jobs. Tax shelters would 
only be allowed when an investment 
direcdy contributes to an increase in jobs. 
This would stop a lot erf the abuse within 
the tax shelter system along with aiding the 
economy.
Contributions to churches and other non
profit organizations such as the Red Cross 
and the Peace Corps should be increased by 
allowing individuals to write off more erf 
their taxes for these institutions. Therefore 
when these organizations receive more 
funds, theyll be able to care for the elderly 
and needy which they used to do before 
Scxial Security.
If the United States government wants to 
self-destruct in its own system, then they 
wont do anything to entidements. But if 
they open their eyes and see the need for 
change and take action on that need, then 
the United States will be here for quite 
some time.
Wayne Cutler is a senior majoring in Eco
nomics and is a columnist for The Tartan.
washed, some always get away during the 
wash time.
Sock piles are also notorious for their abil
ity to camouflage socks. For when one loses 
a sock, one tries to keep the sock from being 
more lost by placing it in a pile with others 
that are lost.
Now while it has been stated that it is easy 
enough for one to buy a new package of 
socks, what do the socks do that are missing 
their mates?
To start with, there is a period of time 
where the socks go into mourning by assum
ing a sickly shade of gray. This is cured by a 
quick dip in the old washing machine. The 
gray is most likely a fungi growing on the 
sock.
After passing through this pericxi of 
mourning, the sock begins to act out the tale 
of Evangeline, who searched throughout 
the world for her love Gabriel. Many socks 
are not strong enough to complete this task. 
So they form Lonely Sock Clubs.
Lonely Sock dubs are comparable to our 
own Lonely Hearts Clubs, providing such 
services as sock hops, seek drops (for all the 
little socks) and sock escort services. There is 
the YSCA (Young Sock Counseling Asso
ciation) serving as a center for those 
socks that cannot cope with problems. And, 
erf course, there are the Armed Footsies For 
Socks to enter. The Footsies provide protec
tion from such dread menaces as Red Rover, 
the Irish retriever.
Now the moral of this story is, when you 
lose your socks, do not unravel at the toes. 
Instead, remember that socks are human 
too. Now I too will sock this away and say: If 
you cannot stand your socks, starch them.
Orpheus Allison is a freshman majoring 
in history and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
CONGRATULATIONS TO OUR 
NEW PLEDGE CLASS
Karen Adelson 
Linda Marcoux 
Patty Illig 
Katie Shannon 
Mary Isaac 
Jennifer Cromwell 
Michelle Eichelman
FROM THE SISTERS & PLEDGES OF KKG
Marcelle's Typing Service
Specializes in Word 
Processing
ThesesManuscriptsResearch/term 
papersresumes/repetitive letters 
(TurabianAPAMLA strongly observed)
Fast Efficient Reasonable 
Call Ms. West 371-3657 
(24 hour service) 
10% discount with coupon
Storage Case...
...next time you copy A Cassette at Rezound '
For the tirxf 30 da vs. you'll ivirfvc a 
delu x<* t&tssrttr st orator Vast-FRKK l< >r 
ropyiog any cassctU' at Rrzonnd. 
Thm grral values ronsidrrinf* (lull 
the Re/.ound ( lan ini* SrrvUv is last 
and inrxpt'Mstvt' (copy a 60 ininutt' 
srminar in 2 minuUs ior just $3.99!). 
Storage cast* quantities an* Umiferi. so 
ac t last: 1 jer customer please.
Avallali AtemuITITI
IH tAKIff MAXCkstcre

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanSeptember 28, 1982
> ANO My CARD OIDN'T WORK,
 ANO SO X HAD To &0 TO RoOfA T7, 
' But THtr toio to c?o to the 
Re (?(STRAR'S> OUT THEY y old ;
, To 60 To H0USIN6, Ano TH6Y '\ TOLO r*\E... ^
So 1 SMDJ3S bm
N\E CHEESE) AND SHE SA ID  
"'dANT LETTOCE VN TOMATO]
.Th e NwshpTarof shCn
gi--M.ro lUv l.ty
vVHOW A^OUT SOME
V CHtSE?*...
X TH06HT THAT 
TASTED TOO 000 
X W AS CHEW ING 
7 OKI M UP.
O.K. -- Sit THAT ONi 
GIRI ... VM THE f^TD 
How look at HE/^ 
Rooaamate.'
j Next... Remove 
ByM ONICBIAEL
OH, 
wow.
ABC has most 
popular soaps 
survey says
College students watch the ABC Televi
sion Networks daytime serials most fre
quently and rate them superior to those on 
the competing networks, according to a 
study conducted this past spring at 11 major 
universities.
ABCs General Hospital, televisionss 
highest-rated daytime serial, is the most 
popular of the daytime serials, followed by 
two other ABC programs, All My Child
ren and One Life To Live, the study 
indicates.
The study also points out that college 
viewers are most likely to watch dayume 
serials in groups erf from two to six people 
and that females comprise the majority of 
the college audience viewing serials.
The data was compiled from a survey of 
1,023 students who claimed to watch day
time serials at least once a week. They com
pleted a questionnaire designed by the ABC 
Social Research unit, which also conducted 
the analysis.
The study found that 70% of the students 
in the survey watch General Hospital at 
least once each week, with 38% viewing three 
or more episodes weekly. All My Children 
is viewed at least once each week by 55% of 
the students surveyed and at least three times 
by 28%.
Off-campus apartments, fraternity/soror
ity houses and dormitory rooms are the 
primary locations for viewing serials, the 
students said. Only 20% erf those in the sur
vey watched alone, while 68% said they 
viewed in groups of two to six students.
Runners in The Great Race passed through CMU Sunday. About 10,000 people participated.
photo by Gene Yonish
SUPA holds conference
Labor managers gather for 3-day talk
The Center for Labor Studies at the 
School erf Urban and Public Affairs will 
bring together some erf the nations top 
labor-management experts for a three day 
conference, October 26-28, to discuss the 
impact of tomorrows advanced technology 
on labor.
American labor relations will be pro
foundly changed when robotics and artifi
cial intelligence systems really take hold, 
predicted Ben Fischer, the centers director 
and former key negotiator for the United 
Steelworkers of America. Todays basic
MASADA FORUM SERIES 1982
September 1982 Israel in Beruit 
Reaction and Counter-Reaction
A Public Forum 
Thursday, Sept. 30, 1982 
8 p.m.
David Lawrence Hall, Room 106 
University of Pittsburgh
Masada offers this service as an attempt to provide a forum for open discus
sion. This Thursdays forum is co-sponsored by Bnai Brith Hillel and Masada.
assumptions about personnel and manage
ment policy will be irrelevant in tomorrows 
factory environment.
Under the theme, Labor Relations for 
Tomorrows Technology/ the conference 
will focus on the long range problems fac
ing labor relations because of the wide diffu
sion of the new technology, new world trade 
relationships and shifting labor market 
characteristics.
Conference speakers include professor 
and Nobel laureate in economics Herbert 
Simon; Rex R. Reed, vice president, Ameri
can Telephone and Telegraph Company; 
Thomas Graham, president and CEO, 
Jones 8c Laughlin Steel Corporation; 
Edmund Ayoub, chief economist, United 
Steelworkers of America; Sam Camens, 
assistant to the president, United Steel
workers of America; Douglas Sou tar, vice 
president, ASARCO; Ben Rathbun, asso
ciate editor, Bureau of National Affairs; 
James Rechin, vice president, Turbine Pro
ducts Division, TRW, Inc.; Irving Blues-1 
tone, former vice president of United Auto 
Workers of America; Thomas Murrin, presi
dent, Westinghouse Public Systems Co.; 
Charles Killingsworth, Michigan State Uni
versity professor and manpower authority.
In addition to Herbert Simon, other 
CMU experts in the fields of management 
and labor addressing the conference are 
Robert Atkin, associate dean of GSIA; Danial Berg, expert on energy and the manage
ment of technology; Brian J.L. Berry, dean 
of SUPA and urban authority; Richard M. 
Cyert, president of the university and econo
mist; Myron Joseph, former secretary of the 
Pennsylvania Department of Labor and 
Industry; Leonard Lynn, specialist on Japa
nese management and labor policies; and 
Robert Strauss, associate dean of SUPA.
Allegheny 
Women's Center
-Abortions 
-Free Pregnancy 
Tests
-Related Counseling
Mon.-Fri. 9-5, Sat. 104 
362-2920
HEADING FOR 
LAW SCHOOL?
CONSIDER
HARVARD
Come ask us questions
on Wed., Oct. 6 at 2 pm
in Skibo Room 12. Everyone welcome.
Women and minorities
especially.
Joe Freshmanby Mark Levine

---------------------------------------------------

September 28, 1982The TartanPage 7
Racist, sexist, and rich
Ivy League alumni reveal conservative attitudes
(CPS)-Oki soldiers may just fadeaway, but old 
Ivy Leaguers just seem to get richer, more 
conservative and snobby.
At least thats the result of a survey com
pleted by the Princeton, Harvard and Yale 
graduating classes of 1957.
As part of their 25-year reunion project 
earlier this year, alumni from the three 
schools filled out a 149-question survey on
Campbell talks 
on mythology
Joseph Campbell, who has been called 
the grand old man erf myth, will speak on 
The Mythic Image at 8 p.m., Tuesday, 
Oct. 12 in the Skibo Ballroom.
The talk, sponsored by the CMU depart
ment of art, is open to the public free of 
charge.
Campbell is the author erf Hero With A 
Thousand Faces, The Skeleton Key to'Fin
negans Wake/ and the four volume history 
of sacred myths, The Masks of God seriesPrimitive Mythology; Oriental Mythology; 
Occidental Mythology; and Creative 
Mythology.
SAE helps kids
By DAVID WALLACE
Special for The Tartan
The Brothers and Little Sisters of Sigma 
Alpha Epsilon are sponsering the 6th grade 
class of Gladstone Middle School in their 
annual dance marathon.
The purpose of the dance is to raise 
money to send the class on a 3 day camping 
trip at the end of the year.
The fraternity is also planning many big 
brother-little brother activities with the stu
dents. Geoffrey Witherford, President of 
SAE, feels the Gladstone project is a positive 
experience for both the fraternity and the 
school.
Correction
Last issue we mistakenly reported that Joe 
Guirola worked for the Morewood Desk. 
Joes name is actually Joe Guarino and we 
would like to apologize for changing his 
name. Sorry, Joe!
Alone & Pregnant? 
Need Help?
For a confidential friend call: 
LIFELINE
Downtown Pgh. 
Beaver County 
Mon Valley 
Butler County
562-0543843-0505489-9020282-1200
GYN
CHECKUPS
ABORTION
SERVICES
FREE
PREGNANCY TESTS
CONFIDENTIAL 
COUNSELING
Women's HealthServices.
625 STANWDC ST 
DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
<4Q) 562-1900
attitudes about everything from how many 
books they read to what they think about 
Reaganomics.
The 25th-year reunion classes routinely 
do things like this, said Jim Merritt, a Prin
ceton spokesman. But this is the first time 
that the classes from all three schoolsPrinceton, Harvard and Yale-did the survey 
together.
In light of the controversy surrounding 
some of the answers, this may be the last year 
they do it, too, Merritt added.
A significant number of alumni defined 
themselves as racists, sexists-and generally 
wealthy.
Only 36 percent of the Princetonians. for 
instance, said they believe blade people are as 
intelligent as whites. Forty-seven percent of 
the Yale alumni and 55 percent of the Har
vard alumni judged the races intellectually 
equal.
Seventy-three percent of the Princetoni
ans agreed men and women are equally 
intelligent, but, again, more Yale and Har
vard grads-86 percent of them-proved to be 
liberal on the question.
Nearly half of the Princeton and Yale 
alumni endorsed Reaganomics, while Har
vards class, with twice the number of regis
tered Democrats, overwhelmingly (64-36 
percent) rejected Reaganomics.
Most of the survey covered questions con
cerning topics like book reading, but the 
responses to political and social questions 
have generated the most heat.
Its kind of a worst-case scenario, said 
Merritt. Of all the questions, the ones that 
were pulled out by the press are the three 
regarding sex, race and politics. I think the
class regrets ever putting those questions 
in.
Officials from all three schools have 
reacted cautiously, stressing their students 
today are different. Twenty-five years ago, 
they say, the schools--especially Princetonrecruited many students from the Deep 
South, who still hold the values of their 
generation, not of their educations.
I think thats a generalization you could 
make about people in general, Merritt said. 
The survey might be fairly representative 
of older, middle-class values in the U.S.
But they arent representative erf middle 
class wealth in he U.S., where average 
annual incomes hover around 515,000.
Only five percent of the Princeton and 
Harvard graduates confessed to earning less 
than $20,000 a year. Four percent of Yales 
Class of 57 earns less than $20,000 a year.
TEN YEARSTOY0DR
The environment at MITRE is years ahead of what others consider the state-ofthe-art.
As General Systems Engineer for C3I  Command, Control, Communications and 
Intelligence  for the U.S. Air Forces Electronic Systems Division, it is our 
challenge to look beyond tomorrow, to the world of 5 or 10 years from now. To 
analyze and engineer one-of-a-kind-systems that will be more than current well 
into the 1990s.
The importance of our work is why we provide an environment you can do your 
best in. Youll work with some of the most accomplished experts in their fields. 
You will be challenged by longand short-term projects in computer systems, 
systems software, systems architecture, radar systems, and satellite and ter
restrial transmission. Engineers youll be work ng with can advance your career a 
decade in technologies including fiber-optics, computer security, sensor 
technology and voice recognition.
Your excellence is nurtured in every way possible at MITRE. Facilities, 
compensation and benefits to attract and keep the finest people. Full tuition ad
vancement plus an ongoing in-house lecture series from the unique MITRE In
stitute to promote your continued education. Plus exceptional project mobility 
and dual career pathing to get you where you want to be, doing what you do best.
If you would like 10 more years wisdom 
MITRE. Weve got the environment for it.
without the wrinkles  come to
Camegie-Mellon University Interviews Friday, October 8,1982
MITRE will be conducting campus interviews Friday, October 8, 1982. Contact 
your Placement Office to arrange an interview if you are a BS, MS, or Ph.D. 
candidate in:
Electrical Engineering Computer Engineering Computer Science Mathematics Physics
Contact your placement office to see if MITRE will be visiting your campus, 
or send your resume to Phillip Hicks at The MITRE Corporation, 
Middlesex Turnpike, Bedford, MA 01730.
U.S. Citizenship required. MITRE is an equal opportunity employer actively 
seeking applications under its affirmative action program. s>
THEENVIRONMENT TO DO WHAT YOU DO BEST.
MITRE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanSeptember 28, 1982
BM! presents awards 
for music composers
photo by Nicole Vecchi
Delta Upsilon brothers donned loin cloths to celebrate their Jungle Party Saturday night.
/VATCHNFOR
FALLING
\R0CKS?
\Y / should plan toW 1JD attend:
\bu will be interested in what 
we have to say if youre a 
graduating student in any of the 
following disciplines:
Electronic Engineering 
Electrical Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Computer Science 
industrial Engineering 
Material Science 
Solid-state Physics 
Engineering Physics 
Engineering Science 
Metallurgy
Metallurgical Engineering 
Chemical Engineering 
Chemistry 
Mathematics 
Plastics engineering 
Manufacturing Engineering 
Geology/Geophysics 
If you have a spouse or friend 
who will be helping you make 
your career decision, invite them 
to join you.
Terminals and Modems For Rent 
Call (412) 335-9815 
International Automation, Inc.
Suite 200 Mellon Bank Building 
New Kensington. PA 15068-6376
charismatic 
v-sprayer meeting 
Uevery Friday
8night at 8 p.m. 
at Mellon 
Institute 
Q Bellefield Ave. 
C"1 (Across from 
Heinz Chapel) 
Vh Oakland, Pa. 
^ call Rege for 
|]||J< information: 
262-3950.
Further, if you have any burning 
questions, ask them. Well give you 
honest answers about ourselves, our 
company, and life at the leading 
edge of technology.
US citizenship or permanent residency required for all positions.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Whitewater rafting provides rapid thrills
Senior fence is nailed
By TOM WOODLEY
Tartan Staffwriter
Three weeks ago, facing typically low 
spending funds, frowning on differential equa
tions and lack of sleep, I hesitantly kissed 
twenty dollars goodbye for a whitewater raft
ing trip one week distant. A week later, 
while splashing down the Youghiogheny 
River, I realized that those twenty dollars 
were some of the best spent and most 
enjoyed of my life.
Located in Ohiopyle State Park southeast 
of Pittsburgh, the Youghiogheny River and 
its gorge created quite a view compared to 
the rolling hills and sluggish rivers of south
ern Indiana that I am accustomed to. The 
river itself is dark and turbulent with plenty 
of whitewater linked by calm shallow 
stretches. Heavily forested hills, spotted with 
sharp cliffs and outcroppings, rise from the 
narrow river banks. Sprinkled with boulders 
of all sizes from the steep hillsides above, the 
river presents an incredible whitewater chal
lenge to the wide variety of canoeists, kayakers and rafters that try it.
For anyone who has never been white
water rafting before, it is a rarely equaled 
unique and electrifying adventure. We had 
some rough moments bouncing through 
rushing, frothing water, over sharp boulders 
while careening down fast alleys on the swift 
current. Initially a hectic and terrifying 
experience, it left us with a thrilled and 
charged feeling craving for more of the 
splashing, crashing water. And when we 
would shoot over a final three feet drop at 
the end of a set of rapids, we would become 
confident and proud of our rafting skills.
I was part of a flotilla of CMU students 
from Donner Hall. The rafts we used, which 
were essentially just very large innertubes 
with rubber bottoms, were extremely unmaneuveiable and unseaworthy craft. These two 
properties of our raft, however, were part of 
the irresistable fun and excitement created 
on the river. Reeling over treacherous rocks, 
taking in water and spinning three or four 
times around before smashing backwards 
down a rapid water slide was a big slice of 
the wild fun generated that day.
Not all the amusement was created on the
By DAN TOBIAS
Tartan Staffwriter
I recendy found out that the complete run 
(well, not quite complete, as there still seem 
to be a few gaps) of the Tartan is kept on 
microfilm at the Hunt Library. This lets me 
use issues from years which are not in bound 
form at the Tartan office, such as those of the 
1920s through 40s.
20 YEARS AGO: Sept. 26, 1962 
The lead story' announced the completion 
of the Scaife Engineering Hall: (sometimes 
known as the potatochip due to the shape 
of the auditorium sticking out of the front. 
This nickname was not used in the 1962 
article.) Also, E Tower of Morewood 
Gardens was completed.
30 YEARS AGO: Sept. 30, 1952 
In an article announcing the homecom
ing queen election procedure, a list of the 
number of girls in each department was 
included. The total number was 199, which 
included 50 in Home Ec. (the highest 
number) and 10 in Music, the lowest.
The Freshman Regulations which I 
reprinted last week as they were in 1932, 
seemed to be on their way out by 1952. An 
article states how freshman caught not wear
ing dinks were forced to sweep the Senior 
Walk, but afterward the freshman got 
revenge by renaming the path 
Freshman Walk, and forbade upperclass
men from walking there. They also put
nails in the Senior Fence to prevent upper
classmen from sitting there. It is apparent 
that by then these regulations were taken 
humorously, befitting the ridiculousness of 
the rules, unlike the utter seriousness given 
them in 1932.
One more thing immediately apparent in 
this paper was the predominance of 
cigarette ads. Where did the cigarette ads 
drift off to? The magazines read now by 
those smokers of the fifties.
40 YEARS AGO: Sept. 29, 1942
In the past, Tech has been hit as badly by 
the draft as the majority of schools. Engi
neers particularly have enjoyed an immun
ity, and a full class will finish in December 
without having been draft decimated. That 
this condition will not continue long is evi
denced by the statement made by Secretary 
of War Stimson that the armed forces are 
already running short of manpower and 
new recruits must be called up. If and when 
the draft age is dropped, the law will tap a 
reservoir of one and one half million youths 
between 18 and 20 who have registered for 
selective service, but cannot be touched 
now.
'Hie article suggests that the collegi 
forego the aspects of the country club and 
become more rigorous to prepare students to 
enter the war effort either on the home front 
or the fighting front.
Herb Simon, Professor of Psychology and Computer Science at Camegie-Mellon University fields question after his talk titled: Are There 
Things We Should Not Know? Social Responsibility and Science. Simon concluded by saying knowledge is better than ignorance, but 
informed social responsibility requires curious people; a resource that needs more development.
rapids, however bored college students 
found plenty to do in the quiet sections of 
the river. It was at times like these, of course, 
that we found how effective our bailers were 
in emptying our raft and filling other rafts 
with water. Inspired by the Roman naval 
battle seen in Ben Hur, the week before, we 
often rammed, grappled with and boarded 
enemy rafts. A unified feeling was created in 
our raft as we joyfully threw other rafters 
into the cold river, or even more fun, got 
thrown in ourselves.
It was an all day adventure, but was by no 
means restricted totally to rafting. At mid
day, we quickly inhaled a hearty lunch of 
sandwiches, cookies, and apples, which 
tasted so bad we used them for projectiles in 
raft battles. We also took several breaks to do 
some sunbathing or swimming and to dis
cuss how to run the next set of rapids. On 
one occasion, we stopped after a particularly 
exciting set of rapids, walked back upstream 
and went down again, only this time, indi
vidually, with our life jackets.
Although we were advised by our outfit
ters on most situations, we learned a few 
lessons on our own. For instance, never 
kneel on the bottom of the raft when it runs
up on a rock, and never lean too far over the 
side of the raft while bouncing through the 
rapids.
To get the most out of our nip a carefree 
but enthusiastic attitude was necessary. For 
example, we shot rapids in two ways: leav
ing the craft to the river current, to do what it 
would, juggling us in the process, or strain
ing with intense concentration at the pad
dles, bringing us through the rapids straight 
and unscathed. The first method was inten
sely wild and free. When we got stuck on a 
continued on page 11

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10The TartanSeptember 28, 1982
Beating the system
Learning how to use mail, scribe, and emacs is easy
By ALEX CZAJKOWSKI
Tartan Staffivriter
What are you going to do? Where are you 
going to fit in? Whatll happen when you 
have to face THE MACHINE?
Eventually, youll have to. No depart
ment at CMU is safely immune; musicians 
practice solfege, artists paint, poets write, 
engineers engineer, all on the computer.
Even if you escape CMU still a computervirgin, chances are that somewhere down 
the road another machine will be dropped 
in your lap. Why not be prepared? Even 
CMUs administrators are learning to use 
the DecSystem-20 for very basic funtions.
Electronic mail: Gimbels longs to get on 
our system, but just to harass me about my 
late payment. Its the only way they can get
hold of me. Im never home to answer my 
phone, my mails always being lost and Im 
conveniendy never in my office when they 
call there. However, if someone wants to 
bother me about something, they can be 
fairly sure that Ill read my computer mail. 
Its just one of those interfering, dominating 
things like a ringing telephone.
Have you ever tried to really get a hold of 
one of CMUs administrators? You always 
have to deal with a secretary who always 
wants to schedule an appointment some
time after the moment of crisis. But do you 
think President Cyerts computer mail is 
read by his secretary?
Type MS on a terminal someday and go 
from there. What do you want to do, Read 
mail or Send mail? Use the appropriate
verb, and youre on your way. It can be kind 
of fun; a new way to communicate with 
other people in a similiar situation. So try it! 
Type MS, hit return, type "Send, hit return 
again and when it says To:, try AC1H@TOPSD. CC: means carbon-copy. 
Good luck.
Text editing: Not only can I not 
remember to buy typing paper, but when I 
do the typewriters ribbon is worn out. I 
often make silly typing mistakes that make 
me look like a horrid speller. Well, although 
the Xerox printer is far from reliable at 
quick service, it can do things even a nice 
IBM Selectric cant. With a little help from 
EMACS and Scribe. . .
Learn them. You simply wont regret it. 
EMACS is easy and can be learned in mere
Hillel expands CMU communication
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Associate Features Editor
We are trying to go to the students at 
CMU to create a portable program to meet 
them on their own turf, explained Rabbi 
Joseph Levine of Bnai Brith Hillel as to 
how he and his colleagues are trying to 
reach out to students.
Susan Simons, who acts as CMU Hillel 
Counselor and is active on the CMU Cam
pus Ministry Council, is working with 
Rabbi Levine on creating more liberal alter
natives to the existing traditional services at 
the Jewish Community Center. For 
instance, liberal services honoring the recent 
Jewish New Year  Rosh Hashanah  and 
the Day Of Atonement  Yom Kippur  
were held in the Wherrett Room in Skibo.
We are recognizing CMU as an entity unto 
itself. We are experimenting with various 
forms of religious contact, said Rabbi 
Levine.
The Hillel House on campus is located in 
a special interest house in the Margaret Mor
rison complex. It acts as a middle man 
between the Hillel at the Jewish Commun
ity Center (in Oakland) and the Jewish com
munity at school. The Hillel at CMU is 
serving, according to the Rabbi, more and 
more as a center for students without dis
tracting from their private lives. Activities 
can be held in the courtyard or even on 
Flagstaff Hill, as was the case when the Hill 
hosted a Hillel picnic there a few weeks ago.
In addition to Rabbi Levines efforts at
expanding contact and communication, 
American Zionist Youth Foundation, 
which is a collegiate agency acting as an 
informational source for students, has made 
considerable headway. It has sponsored 
trips, planned opportunities for studying in 
Israel, as well as other special programs 
designed for college students.
Rabbi Levine, who also teaches a contem
porary course at CMU on the Holocaust, 
said that the program is specifically aimed at 
a particular school, in this case, CamegieMellon. In their efforts to bridge the gap, the 
Foundation and Hillel (across from Heinz 
Chapel on S. Bellefield) are pursuing a 
course of action which will provide staffing 
to independendy contact CMU students.
minutes (although, like backgammon, it 
takes years to master.) Its an amazing pro
gram that can do tricks with text. Go sit 
down at a terminal and type EMACS: 
TEACH-EMACS.
The best way to get that text on a page to 
hand in is with Scribe. Although slighdy 
more difficult to get used to than EMACS, 
and with no on-line tutorial available, its 
worth paging through a copy of the Scribe 
manual or using a large pizza from Domi
nos and a six-pack of Dr. Pepper to bribe 
someone into helping you get into it.
SPELL is a handy little program that 
really nails typos and common mis
spellings. To run it, just type SPELL and 
;hit return. READ CAREFULLY. No, its 
not a hand-holding program, but its intel
ligible. No on-line thesaurus is available yet 
on TOPS, but programs that can actually 
help one write better have been developed 
and may eventually be pirated or legiti
mately come on-line.
So, if you need to write a paper (forget 
about programming,) or a resume, or even a 
letter, maybe you can use this column and 
the relatively friendly TOPS. It also makes a 
better memo board than over-Ziggy 
scribbled notes in dark hallways.
PRESIDENTS DISTINGUISHED LECTURE SERIES
ELEANOR CLIFT
WHITE HOUSE CORRESPONDENT FOR NEWSWEEK
An Anecdotal Look at the Reagan White House

MONDAY, OCTOBER 4 
SKIBO BALLROOM 
4:00 P.M.
Ms. Clifts lecture will be introduced by Professor Andrew Achenbaum, of the Deparment of History, H8cSS

---------------------------------------------------

September 28, 1982The TartanPage 11
Video art: is there life beyond the tv box?
By GEOF BECKER
Tartan Features Editor
If you enter the Museum of Art, Carnegie 
Institute by way of Forbes Avenue, you will 
pass a rectangular array of fountains spurt
ing up as if a parade of porpises were exhal
ing just beneath the water. After 
^ pushing through the turnstile
Jr and into the museum you see a
^ long hall called Scaife Gallery.
To your left a two story glass wall separates. 
the gallery from a courtyard of trees and 
sculpture. At the far end of the courtyard a 
waterfall flows from the side of the Museum 
of Natural History.
Hanging on the gallery side of the glass 
wall a series of seven television monitors are 
showing images selected from the fountain, 
the trees and sculpture, and the waterfall.
The television monitors are part erf video 
artist James Bymes current installation 
entided .. this fountain is a field of fire... 
Instead of showing the video in the second 
floor Video Exhibition Room, Byrne chose 
to show it in the environment from which it 
was created: it was an attempt to overcome 
what he believes is an inherent disadvantage 
of video.
Byrne says, A limitation of video is its 
unimpressive physical presence. All too eas
ily the image can remain confined within 
the plastic box, behind layers of glass mute, 
seductive, out of reach.
He continues, It is my intention to create 
images and sounds which escape this con
finement, which touch the heart directly, 
and introduce mysterious but familiar 
worlds which we are all a part of.
Byrne describes a difficult problem: how 
to create a work erf universal appeal in a 
society that seems to cater to individual 
taste? He tries to solve the problem by
fashioning a story from elements found in 
the courtyard.
As you watch the video, the courtyard 
circles in the periphery of your vision 
increasing the visual effects the way watch
ing a live performance of music adds to the 
sound you hear. Byme does not merely film 
scenes from the courtyard as if he were creat
ing a documentary. Vaguely familiar 
images flash on the the screen but Byme 
presents them in entirely new perspectives. 
He gives you a new way of seeing something 
that could be taken for granted.
Like listening to a piece of music several 
times to hear how it works, Bymes video 
brings added insight with each successive 
viewing. Once he draws you into the piece 
by showing you where the images originate, 
you begin to notice that some of them recur.
Byme is telling a story; its theme is stated 
by the soundtrack which is made up of a 
male and female voice repeating . ..this 
fountain is a field of fire. . . The theme is 
stated not so much in the words said but in 
how they are expressed.
Unemotional and analytical, the male 
voice enunciates .. .this fountain is a field 
of fire... it repeats and cuts in on itself like 
a round. In the aural background that shifts 
to the foreground and back again, a female 
voice sings the same words, but, expres
sively, in a hymn-like liturgy.
The passionate/dispassionate dichotomy 
is expanded by the introduction of a male 
model who assumes a pose similar to that of 
a bronze female sculpture. While the two sit 
opposite each other and flanking the water
fall, Byme manipulates available light and 
exposure to erase the visual difference 
between flesh and bronze.
However, you are reminded the difference 
is only visual when the male model begins
1 ' ' i ;1111
Vi*
photo by Geof Becker
Museum of Art, Carnegie Institute patrons watch James Bymes video . .this fountain is a 
field of fire... Bymes show runs till October 3rd.
to struggle through the waterfall towards 
the female sculpture. Though, if she is his 
goal, Byme never makes it explicit. The 
water traps him and he becomes as static as 
the female sculpture.
Byme then returns to an image of The 
Tightrope Walker (a sculpture down the 
hall to your left as you watch the video) 
shown early in the video, but with crucial 
change. He composes the shot so that the 
figure, with arms outstretched, seems cruci
fied. The final image in the video is the 
Point State Park fountain shooting up 
towards the sky. Perhaps towards heaven.
A strict religious interpretation of .. .this 
fountain is a field erf fire... is hung ambig
uously on the final fountain scene as if 
Byme couldnt decide between spiritual 
cleansing by water or by the cross. It is 
Bymes concession to pluralism.
Byme expands video beyond the plastic 
box that displays it; but, does he touch your 
heart, as he wishes to? That is for you to 
discover. James Bymes video show runs till 
October 3rd at the Museum erf Art, Carnegie
Institute on Forbes Avenue. Admission is 
free on Saturday.
Rapid rafts
continued from page 9
rock or in a hole, it was a race to see who 
could jump into the cold, rushing water 
first, and release the raft. By the latter 
method, we came out of the rapids tired but 
happy and proud as a successful team.
My trip was organized between my dorm 
floor and an outfitting business at the park. 
The outfitting included the rafts and pad
dles, lunch, shutding services around the 
park, advice and guidance, while transporta
tion to and from the park was provided by my 
floor. Altogether, it was an incredible expe
rience, having both its electrifying and lazy 
moments, easily worth what I had to pay. I 
know that if I had another chance to white - 
water raft, I would certainly do it again, for 
the value erf the trip was undefinable in 
dollars and indescribable in words.
Open Forum  Invitation to All Students
Professor Tom Kerr, Esquire  Associate Professor of Law 
and Industrial Administration, GSIA; former President of 
the American Civil Liberties Union  will discuss:
CStudent Rights and Responsibilities
Thursday, September 30 
11:30 a.m. in the Skibo Ballroom 
There will be a question and answer period.
This is the first in a series of Student Affairs Forums
yy
Student Affairs Forum Committee
Brad Walter Margaret Cyert 
Lois Cox Gina Osborn
Anne Witchner Mark Marcella
Sue Van Horn
Sponsored by Student Affairs
I

---------------------------------------------------

rmr
LLLiUlU
I'*- it li In*i ni Tw : t~'
Gulf
WERE TSPPING NEW ENERGY SOURCES TCMU.
DATE: OCTOBER 26EE, Physics & Comp. Sd. Majors
For a 15Vx201fc',color poster of this illustration, please send your request to: Poster, College Relations, P.O. Box 1166, Pittsburgh, PA 15230. f'Gulf Oil Corporation An Equal Opportunity Employer
L...............  ,--------------.. ------.----------.......------------------------------------------------------------------------------s'- i'j-fTfWere Gulf Oil Corporation. And well be on campus to look for something
very much in demand these days. New energy. Specifically, new human energy.
The fast-changing energy field will continue to be one of the most exciting and rewarding 
places to launch a career. Into the eighties, and beyond. And Gulf has exceptional 
opportunities for new people with new ideas about solving energy problems.
Sign up for an appointment now at your placement office. And pick up some Gulf 
literature for background information. Because this year promises to be a great year for new 
energy. And we cant think of a better place to look than here.

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Taking an inside look 
at Gene Roddenberry
Star Trek creator and producer Gene 
Roddenberry lectured at the CMU Skibo 
Ballroom last Wednesday night. Before the 
lecture, which was presented by AB Lec
tures, Tartan Entertainment Editor Susan 
Petrie conducted an interview with Rodden
berry. The following transcript was taken 
from that interview.
Tartan: "Star Trek  has been off the air 
for almost sixteen years, yet Star Trek 
fans are still as devoted as they ever were, 
do you explain this incredible loyalty? 
Roddenberry: My first answer is my pure 
To be truthful, Id say that the show 
a couple of things that are interesting, 
that other shows have not had: for one thing
 for young minded people, whether 
theyre students or people in their eighties  
show said there is a tomorrow  
humanity is going to make it... it was one 
of the few science fiction shows ever that has 
an optimistic look on the future.
I think perhaps another [reason] is the fact 
that we had almost old-fashioned heroes. 
Theres a whole swing back to hey,-itskind-of-nice-to-be-able-to-be-honest  
give your word and keep it.
Tartan: How did you come up with the 
idea of Star Trek?
photo by Chuck Hartmann 
Last Wednesday, CMU was treated to an AB Lecture featuring Gene Roddenberry.
Roddenberry beams on down to CMU
By GREGG BOSSLER
Tartan Editorial Assistant
The Great Bird of the Galaxy beamed 
down to CMU last week; or for those nontrekkies out there like myself, Gene Rodden
berry spoke in the Skibo Ballroom last
? Wednesday night.
Being a non-trekkie I only 
^ recalled the name Roddenberry 
quite vaguely. I hadnt seen 
either Star Trek movie or any of the televi
sion episodes, believe it or not. Still, I can 
admit now Ive been caught up by the man.
Roddenberry said Star Trek began simply 
because he felt there were no shows on televi
sion at the time that made any social com
ment. He felt he could write one. To get his 
commentary on the air, and past the censors, 
he said he used the same strategy that Jona
than Swift did in Gullivers Travels. Rod
denberry set his show in the outer reaches of 
the galaxy, as far removed from home as 
possible.
Much of the social commentary that was
incorporated into the scripts was about the 
Vietnam War. Roddenberry said that the 
ideal of non-interference evident in many of 
the episodes was one such comment. Peo
ple, he said, were being propagandized in 
their own homes and the censors didnt 
notice but the teenagers watching did.
Roddenberry said that the message in his 
work today is about the issue of nuclear 
disaster. He seemed quite concerned about 
the threat of nuclear holocaust and emphas
ized our generations role in the future.
Aside from the Blooper Reel, Rodden
berry brought Spacebome, a film emphas
izing the beauty and aesthedcs of space 
flights using actual footage taken by NASA 
during their missions. He said it was neces
sary to realize the importance of condnuing 
the space program.
If Americans can spend six billion dollars 
a year on cosmetics, Roddenberry said, they 
can afford to support the space program. 
The advances in science and even to consu
mers from the NASA missions has proved
phenomenal. The explosion of knowledge 
is increasing exponentially, he said.
Roddenberry ended his lecture with a 
question and answer period. Most of the 
questions were about Star Trek, and went 
over my head. However, I did catch that 
there would definitely be a Star Trek 3 
motion picture, in which Spock would 
return. Maybe this one Ill see.
Roddenberry: I was thinking of Jonathan 
Swift, who wanted to make some comments 
on his times in old England [without] get
ting his head chopped off. . .television is so 
censored that I would have had my financial 
head chopped off if I tried to talk about sex, 
politics, religion, war, and all erf those 
things.
So I thought, wait a minute  if I have 
it happen to little polka-dotted people way out 
somewhere, maybe itll go over the heads of 
the network. And it did  sixteen-year-olds 
knew exactly what I was talking about. . .
Tartan: How old were you when you 
originated this idea?
Roddenberry: About thirty-four, thirtyfive. I was an airline pilot who suddenly 
realized that hed backed himself into 
becoming an international bus driver. I 
didnt want that so I became a writer. Then, 
a lot of us in Hollywood became producers 
to protect our property.
Tartan: How long was the transition 
from a writer to a producer? ,
Roddenberry: Well, I was a free-lance wri
ter for ten to fifteen years before I really 
seriously began producing.
Tartan: Where were you schooled?
Roddenberry:I went to Los Angeles City 
College, UCLA, and Columbia University.
I dont have a degree; I have about eight 
years of college, four honorary doctorates, 
and not even a bachelors!
Tartan: How did you feel when NBC 
cancelled the show after only three years?
Roddenberry: I thought they were idiots!.
. .After they fired us, one erf their researchers
came in and said, Listen, we found the
perfect show  unfortunately you guys just
threw it off the air! I wasnt shocked; I just
thought, aw  if it had gone on for a few
more years, I would have been a millionaire.
continued on page 20
Something's Afoot" stumbles 
at Pittsburgh Playhouse
Winwood's latest talks back
By EILEEN ESKIN
Tartan Staffwriter
If perchance you have never heard of 
Traffic nor Steve Winwood, read on. Not 
enough people my age are familiar with 
them. (I was lucky enough to be exposed to 
many musical groups of the 
.early 1970s at a young age. I can 
remember humming the Doors 
Light My Fire while doing 
arithmetic in second grade!) One of the 
groups with which I became familiar was 
Traffic, composed of Jim Capaldi, Chris 
Wood, and Steve Winwood. The trio has 
been separated for a few years now, but Steve 
Winwood has continued to produce music 
on his own.
After ending Traffic, Steve Winwood 
went on to create solo albums of the rarest 
quality. His music is primarily composed 
with a clear, strong percussion section, a 
synthesizer, and Winwoods occasional pipe
organ. The latter tends to give his music an 
eerie, almost haunting tone. But his lyrics 
are so full of enchantment that you dont 
associate his work with morbidity.
Steve Winwoods latest achievement, 
Talking Back to the Night, is a myriad of 
emotions and <?Ver-present optimism. While 
listening to this album, I felt extremely sen
sitive to these emotions that seem to egress 
from the voice and the instruments. Perhaps 
it is Winwoods arrangement of the English 
language which makes his music carry so 
bold a message.
In the first song on the album, Valerie, 
he does wizardry upon the description of his 
lost companion (so cool, she was like jazz 
on a summers day). He follows this with a 
conclusion and the girl that deserted him 
(she cant be that warm with the wind in 
her arms). Such phrasing is not only 
poetic, but also very direct. Impressions 
continued on page 15
By DEBBIE NIR
Tartan Staffwriter
If it isnt Colonal Mustard with the leadpipe in the conservatory or Professor Plum 
with the candlestick in the ballroom, it must 
have been the butler. But no. Somethings
* afoot at the Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center, and the 
butler didnt do it.
Somethings Afoot, (with 
book, music, and lyrics by James McDo
nald, David Vos, and Robert Berlach), is an 
uneventful musical-comedy tribute to the 
knotty, lethal plots of Agatha Christie, but it 
is neither intricate not mysterious. When the 
curtain rises on the English country estate of 
Rancours Retreat, one need not be Miss 
Marple to discover the murderers identity in 
less than ten minutes. Not only has the mys
tery fizzled, but little suspense and thrills 
there are disappear when no sooner are 
one of the characters murdered, then 
another one breaks out into song and dance.
Because of the script problems, the pro
duction by the Playhouse Theatre Com
pany emphasizes the satirical elements of 
the musical. Gathered together for 
unknown reasons at the estate are ten char
acters very familiar to anyone who has ever 
read a mystery novel. The dissolute nephew, 
the family doctor, the butler one by one 
they are eleminated while trapped in the 
house because of a washed-out bridge.
With few exceptions, the Christie carica
tures are over-exagerated to the point of
being bad jokes. The worst perpetrator of 
this is Howard Elson as Nigel Rancour, the 
Wayne Newton look-alike nephew claim
ing to be the legal heir to the estate. Its 
irritating that a majority of the actors have 
over-extended their English accents, but Mr. 
Elson has taken the phrase less is more to 
the extreme and has no accent at all. His 
timing is off during his only solo number, 
The Legal Heir, and I have never seen 
anyone breathe as heavily after their demise. 
Likewise, other actors over-color their 
continued on page 20
Beat the blues
By KATHY BONELLO
Tartan Staffwriter
Are you tired of the same old CMU scene? 
Do you find yourself sleepwalking the route 
between your room and the computation 
center? Are your fingers worn to the bone 
from writing one useless paper after 
another? Well then, you are cordially invited 
to chase your blues away at the Blues Party!
Common Grounds is once again throw
ing a magnificent bash in the Skibo bal
lroom. On Friday, October l from 9 p.m. to
2 a.m., Billy Price and the Keystone Rhythm 
Band will be performing at the Blues Party.
D.J. Rick Burkonstock will also be on hand 
to keep your spirits up. Refreshments will be 
served to one and all. Come to the Blues 
Party and brat the blues.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanSeptember 28, 1982
PPT triumphs with Tom Jones
Critics Berkley and DeMille
"La Vie Continue" stale but still satisfying
By L.G. TROVATO
Tartan Staffurriter 
The dosing line of Tom Jones at the 
Pittsburgh Public Theatre is Twasnt 
always true to life, but it were satisfyin. 
This certainly sums up the production well.
It is very satisfying, and the 
.jP things that make it so are a cast 
jjSr with a bewildering array of tal
ents, a production that not only 
looks but feels like the times, and inspired 
direction by PPTs new artistic director, 
Larry Arrick. Arrick has adapted Henry 
Fieldings monumental 18th-century opus
(dont worry its got subtitles) entitled La 
Vie Continue and directed by Moshe Miz
rahi. The story is not unfamiliar a middleaged woman loses her husband and must 
achieve a life without him. Jeanne Lemaire 
(Annie Giradot) is left to support a family 
and herself after years of presumably con
tented domesticity.
The films opening five minutes pinpoint 
the mundane existence of Jeanne and her 
husband, Gerard. The initial shots take us 
over industrial Paris, then into the 
Lemaires bedroom. Decor, color, action, 
faces, and even the films score form a delib
erate and expected image erf one familys life. 
While these scenes are comfortable to watch, 
they give no build up for what is to follow.
Gerard dies, and with his death comes the 
conintued on page 21
into a beguiling, enervating, and whimsical 
musical comedy.
But Tom Jones is not just bawdy comedy.
There is pathos here too, and this produc
tion is remarkable not because of funny bits, 
but because of the dramatic action with 
which it throbs.
There are over forty characters in Tom 
Jones, and each actor is responsible for at 
least a couple. Arrick has adroidy created a 
group of lower-class workers called "The 
Bam People who one night in a bam (get 
it?) decide to act out the story erf Tom Jones.
continued on page 15 CMU professor Jim Denney
Were new. Were wonderful. We ydmit it. 
Raised on B-movies and proud of it yesiree, buzbee, we know our celluloid like John 
Houseman knows his tweed. In other 
words, we like, perfection and 
hope to bring you to an under
standing of the same. Were out 
to bring you the best reviews we
can. (Now would you buy a used car from 
us?)
As we have the feeling that even on a good 
day, our simplest conclusions might go 
unnoticed, we have devised a rating system. 
Four chorus girls in Egyptian garb (you 
heard us) denote an excellent film; three of 
these lovely wenches indicate a flawed but
nonetheless fine film; two gals serious 
problems, but okay for a matinee; single or 
no girls well, guys, how would you feel? 
Berkley and DeMille (The new kids in
town)
By RECKER and SCHATZ
Tartan Staffwriters
This weeks film is of french extraction,
Spielberg's sensation
"E. T. " falls to Reeses pieces
By JOSEPH NARDONE
Tartan Staffxvnter
This review is erf a movie that lias already 
had too many good things said about it 
Since I dont want to be repetitive, I propose 
to describe not the good things in E.T. but 
the not-so-goexi.
Reviewing the ExtraTerrestrial by Steven Speilberg 
was a unique experience: trying 
to write my point erf view after everyone had
already told me what my point of view was.
During the showing that I attended, every 
full-grown male in the theatre had reverted 
into a sloppy-eyed, blubbering lunatic by 
the end erf the show. I calmly lex>ked around 
hoping that someone was sharing my 
remorse for having been in atteneiance at 
such a cheap display of emotional 
manipulation.
The fiasco starts when a little, green,
wrinkled fella, without a real name, (E.T.), 
gets left behind by his little green friends 
during their expedition to Earth.
Already this story is too fantastic to be
ELEVENALUMN
Hugh Kepets 
Lynn Markovsky 
George Morris 
George Nama 
James Nelson 
Shalom Noiman 
Philip Pearlstein 
Richard Rappaport 
Teresa Rozewski 
David Schirm 
Andy Warhol
OPENING
September 28 
7:00 p.m.
through 
October 10
Gallery Hours:
Tuesday through Sunday, 
11 00 a.m.  600 p.m.JrFORBES GALLERY
5200 forbt Avnue PitHburgh PA 15217 <412)578-20$1
Senate Agenda 
9/28/82
1. Call to order, 7:00, Wherrett Room
2. Approval of the minutes
3. Audience participation; All students are invited to address the 
senate on any subject of concern to them.
4. Officers Reports
Dean Walter - Administration 
Dean Cox - Administration 
Nate Solano - Student Government President 
' Mark Marsella - SDC 
Charles Kraftt - GSO 
UFO Representative
Alexandra Kavoulakis - Senate Chairman 
Janelle Molloy - Senate Vice-Chairman
5. Standing Committee Reports
Rules - Filling of vacant senate seats & election of 
treasurer
Academic Affairs - General announcements 
General Campus and Information - General 
announcements
Finance - Funding for LaCrosse Club
6. New Business
Motion to censure Laura Sabadell
7. General Discussion
8. Announcements
9. Adjournment

---------------------------------------------------

September 28, 1982The TertanPage 15
Tull's latest:A vivid quest into the mind and into the past
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffivriter
The medieval age, replete with romanti
cism, sorcery, and mysticism, is indeed a 
fascination to twentieth century man.
Books and movies set in this epoch are
* often hits, Dungeons and 
^5*^ Dragons, a medieval fantasy
T game, has become incredibly 
popular, and clubs such as 
CMUs own Society for Creative Anachro
nism that specialize in recreating medieval 
gatherings are springing up like mush
rooms after a long rain.
But only one man has succeeded in com
bining the magic of this age with modem 
music; Ian Anderson, the driving force of 
Jethro Tull.
Tulls latest album, The Broadsword and 
the Beast, deals mainly with the concepts in 
mans emotions. Beastie describes the 
inhuman element of fear  Hes the lonely 
fear of dying/ And for some of living too/
continued from page 13
about this Valerie are concluded; you can 
understand the kind of person that Valerie 
might be.
In compositions like While Theres a 
Candle Burning and Theres a River a 
solemn, almost religiously spiritual Winwood displays his optimism for himself and 
his world. Equally, his optimism pours out 
upon the listener in the very jumpy tune 
Still in the Game. Yet, realizing that his 
optimism can sometimes make him unreal
istic and vulnerable, he asks for some gui
dance in Help Me Angel. This particular 
song plays heavily on my mind long after I
Hes your private nightmare/ Hed just love 
to turn the screw.
Broadsword, in the best medieval tradi
tion, depicts a quest. So vivid and driving 
are the lyrics, one can almost picture Ander
son standing by a river, black clouds rolling 
overhead, sword gleaming dully in his 
clenched hands, ready to face the challange
Tom Jones:
continued from page 14
Using sticks for swords, stale bread for a 
feast, and the real thing for lovemaking, 
they make a mockery of the upper classes for 
whom they work, thereby filling out the 
form Fielding had in mind all along.
The action is provided by the best ensem
ble cast I have ever seen at the Public. 
Among them are not just actors, singers, and 
dancers, but harpists, guitarists, violinists,
return the record to its cover.
It is obvious that Steve Winwood is an 
observer of people, of urban life, of nature, 
and of his own capabilities and limitations. 
Throughout the entire album, he makes ref
erences to different lifestyles and how people 
interact with one another. In addition, he 
does not always match sad words with lowkeyed music nor jubiliant words to fast 
music. For this reason, his songs catch ones 
attention; they force one to understand the 
meanings behind them. But mostly, his 
songs allow one to have a good time and 
enjoy the music. These aspects of Winwoods art are what make him the talented 
musician and lyricist that he is.
of an unknown.
And in the beautiful accoustic piece 
Slow Marching Band, Anderson, in his 
strong, inimitable voice, compels one to 
move on to an uncertain and perhaps 
unpleasant future and to leave the past 
behind.
But by far the most outstanding feature of
trumpeters, jugglers, and assorted comics 
and mischief makers. The acting and sing
ing is splendid, and it is wonderful to see the 
stage filled to the brim with performers 
gambooling about like madmen.
At the head of the cast are Don Howard, 
Jill OHara, and Anne Kerry. Curly of hair 
and wicked of eye, Howards Tom is a 
delightful amalgam of innocence and 
debauchery. OHaras Molly is Lust, Inc., 
and her Lady Bellaston is a she-cat in heat 
But she combines two fiery performances 
with the shows two best songs, The Way 
Things Fit, and The Ladies of London. 
Her voice is spicy and full-bodied, as is her 
performance. Kerry is sprightly and win
ning as the precious virgin Sophie, and her 
lovely soprano both stings and soothes.
All of the cast deserves mention, but I was 
lucky enough to be present for a show 
including CMU music theatre major, Karen 
Sullivan. As Goody Brown and Lizzie 
Campbell, Sullivan was every bit as profes
sional and able as any of the cast, and her 
singing was especially striking on two 
songs, i A Proper Heroine, and BigBellied Molly. It was a sparkling debut of 
which CMU drama can be proud.
the album is its ability to combine its musi
cal elements so one may be prominent yet 
not overbearing  the balance is constant.
This is particularly applicable to the use 
erf synthesizers. Peter-John Vettese has mas
tered the use erf electronic music as an 
accompanying force: it is extremely successcontinued on page 21
I counted several CMU alumni among 
the cast and crews, and the talented woman 
who wrote the score taught here briefly last 
semester. She is Barbara Damashek, whose 
credits include several original musictheatre pieces. The music for Tom Jones is 
festive, with many terrific songs. One mem
orable number has the entire cast of twenty 
or so (they never sat still long enough for me 
to count them) serving as the many parts of 
an English fox-hunt; horses, hounds, fox, 
trumpets, as well as people. A remarkable 
musical frolic.
The set and costumes were perfect. Func
tional and great to look at, they enabled the 
actors to move freely both in front and 
behind, as well as above, below, and along
side the audience. One rather saucy wench 
even offered me a bite of her apple!
The credit for this wonderment must go 
to Larry Arrick, who transported this pro
duction from Trinity Rep in Providence, 
along with many of the actors. But it is 
PPTs show through and through, and I 
suggest you call and get a student ticket, and 
then catch a 54C in Oakland, which will 
transport you to the world of Tom Jones. I 
promise you wont be disappointed.
Winwood performs wizardry
never a dull moment
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, 0 
Stone Age plumber, discovers 0 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers'', insists Kneg, 
his helper.
Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
PRECISION
HAIRCUT COLOR
(ANY LENGTH)
$12.00
(WASH-CUT-BLOW STYLE)
NO
APPOINTMENT
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES 
$25.00
&OtUTCNfCdimons.
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7 
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6687-3500
NO APPOINTMENTS 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PHEC6CN HAWCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office
Can you picture yourself 
down a cliff? Or 
r the rapids? Or 
a river using only 
nd your own two
Youll have a chance 
to do all this and more in 
Army ROTC.
Adventure training like 
this helps you develop 
many or the qualities youll 
neea as an Army officer.
Qualities like selfconfidence. Stamina. And 
the ability to perform 
under pressure.
If youd like to find out 
more, make a date to see 
your Army ROTC Professor 
of Military Science.ARMY ROTC BEALLYOUCANBE.
For Information 
Contact 
Michael Schulte, 
CPT
Dept, of Military So. 
Second Basement. B7 
Margaret Momson 
578-2205/2196

---------------------------------------------------

FROM THE PEOPLE WHO BROUGHT YOU THE TIME MACHINE PARTY. . .
COMMON GROUNDS presents
n
THE BLUES PARTY
FRIDAY; OCTOBER 1 
SKIBO BALLROOM
9 p.m. - 2 a.m.
*FEA rURING* 
If/a
CLricC^J
mif Iff I 
EMOTION DRENCHED VOICE 
SHARED BY ALL THE REAL SOUL MEN. . .
HE CAN TEAR THE HOUSE DOWN.
FRANK JOSEPH 
THE UNICORN TIMES 
WASHINGTON, D C.
funded bv activities fee

---------------------------------------------------

Hll I I 4  mm  I  I I I ICMU loses as last-second field goal is blocked
work. Action Sports Entertainment Cable 
aims to provide the most complete regional 
network possible. Long tenn cablecasting 
rights have been secured for all PIAA suite 
play-offs: twenty college basketball games: 
full-game delays of Pitt. WYV and PSl* 
football games: and several live exception 
college football games. Live professional 
boxing from the David L. Lawrence Con
vention Center in Pittsburgh will also be 
featured on the network, while negotiations 
have been initiated to continue exclusive 
cablecasts of the Pittsburgh Pirates. Also 
being negotiated for the network is a sc he
dule of live ISKI. ftxxhall games.
Hie success and exjxiientr of stafl 
members from I'C'J ICS Pirates Action 
S|x>rts (able Network will lx( comple
mented by future staff appointments. Nel
son L. Goldberg of K1S will function as 
pirsident of the new Action Sjx>rts Kntei 
taintnent Cable Network, withJa> knafelt>l 
1'(T ( Vnire Video in Pitisbuigh ttnxxlinator of o|xrations aixl programming.
Terriers scored again on another touchdown 
by Kovach, this time 3 yards.
A great reception by Leposky set up the 
Tartans next score. But again the offense got 
down within the 20 yard line of Hiram and 
could not put the ball across the goal line.
Then with time running out in the first 
half, quarterback Jason Gorsica drove his 
team for another T.D. With the help of a 
series of questionable pass interference calls 
from the refs and great pass protection from 
his offensive line, which gave Gorsica all the 
time in the world for most of the game, 
Hiram scored on another 3 yard run.
The CMU coaches mustve said some
thing to the players at halftime because in 
the second half the Tartans came out like 
gangbusters. The defense stopped Gorsica 
and his passing attack cold while the offense 
started to click. The first score came on prob
ably the most beautiful play of the year. 
With the ball on Hirams 49 yard line, Snake 
went back to pass and hit Tinker Leposky 
over the middle who then faked comerback 
Phil Smith out of his jock and ran all the 
way for the score.
Then came Klausings first crucial deci
sion of the game, whether to go for 2 on the 
extrapoint or kick it. Knowing that CMU 
needed 15 points to de, Klausing decided on
2 but Kiselicks pass fell incomplete.
Then in the fourth quarter, the Tartans 
drove again led by great blocking by the 
offensive line, superb running by soph. 
Mike Garverick, and again key passes to 
Tinker and Carrol.
Kiselicks 4 yard run cut it to 21-19 but 
that was as close as CMU would get as the 
Hiram Terriers got revenge for last years 7-6 
loss in the conference tide game.
photo EEd i .unk \ MinimiEd
Tartan field hockey was successful in their Friday match against Washington 8c Jefferson.
Bom of the success of this summer s 
TCI TCS Pirates Action Sports Cable Net
work, an expanded and complete cable net
work, the Action Sports Entertainment 
Cable Network, Inc.. has been formed. The 
announcement was made by J. C. Spark
man, vice-president and general manager of 
operations for Tele-Communications. Inc. 
This Pittsburgh-based network will provide 
total programming spoils events, along 
with a large variety of special sports pro 
grams and entertainment specials.
The Action Spoils Entertainment Cable 
Network coverage area will build on the 
over 300.000 homes in 275 communities that 
received coverage of twenty live Pittsburgh 
Pirate home games. Portions of twelve tele
vision ADIs in western Pennsylvania. 
Mankind! West Virginia and Ohio are 
already jxirt of the network. TCI Centre 
Video accounts for (i0o of the present net
work and Ixvause of limited channel capu - 
ity. they and other network affiliau*s will 
only lx1 able lo offer one regional sjx>rts and 
entertainment network. As the chosen net
By JEFFREY BERGMAN
Tartan Sports Editor
It was almost a story book finish for the 
Tartans last Saturday at Hiram, Ohio.
Down 21-6 at halftime, CMU got its 
offense on track with the help of the arm of 
quarterback Bill Kiselick and the fantastic 
hands of wide receiver Mark Leposky, and 
got the defense going with the help of a new 
found pass rush led by soph. Pat Campell.
With 4:45 left on the clock and the Hiram 
lead cut to 21-19, the Tartans had the ball on 
their own 15 yard line. There CMU began 
its drive to what it would hope to be a win
ning score. With a series of key passes to 
Leposky and soph, tight end Harley Carrol 
and a crucial 3rd down pass interference call 
against the Terriers, Kiselick moved the 
offense down to the Hiram 6 yard line with 
about 25 seconds to go in the game.
However, on the next play, Kiselick 
slipped and fell on the 14 yard line. Thus 
coach Chuck Klausing had a tough decision 
of whether to run one more play or to send 
soph, placekicker Rob Fleischman to 
attempt a 31 yard field goal. Klausing 
elected on Fleischman, who had already 
nailed a 31 and 26 yarders earlier.
It was almost deja vu for CMU who, four 
years before at Hiram, -had come from 
behind and beaten the Terriers on a last 
minute touchdown. But the Hiram defen
sive line closed the book on CMU by block
ing Fleischmans attempt and preserving a 
21-19 victory.
The game started off as if the Tartans 
were still feeling the effect of the long bus 
ride. Hiram jumped out to a quick 7-0 lead 
on a 14 yard run by running back Chris 
Kovach. .After CMUs first field goal, the
Girls tennis loses to Pitt
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Staffwriler
Last Monday, Pitts womens tennis team 
invaded Tartan territory and proved why it 
is a Division 1 team.
Beth Dougherty and Laurie Arendas, 
playing second doubles for the Division III 
Tartans, provided the panthers with their 
only real competition. The two teams were 
very evenly matched and played steadily, 
producing long baseline rallies. After split
ting the first two sets, the teams matched 
each other game for game up until four-all 
in the third, when Pitt pulled away and 
grabbed the next two games to win the 
match, 4-6, 6-4, 6-4.
Annette Aloe, a senior design major, 
played. fourth singles against her former 
teammates. The former #1 singles player for 
CMU from two years ago is still weak from a 
recent illness and was never mentally in the 
match.
She had a first set lead but lost it in a
tie-breaker and could not offer a second set 
comeback. As per doctors orders, Annette 
may have to forego the remainder of the 
season in order to fully recover.
Playing in her first match for the Tartans, 
freshman Martha Witte overcame some first 
set nervousness and setded down in the 
second. Although she lost the match 1-6,5-7, 
Martha proved that she can hang in and 
maintain control of her game.
Since turnabout is fair play, the netters, 
after having been blanked by Pitt, submitted 
an overall solid performance against St. 
Francis on Saturday. Playing its first confer
ence match, CMU won all six of its matches 
(including a fourth singles exhibition 
match) in straight sets.
In fact, the team spent more time travel
ling than it did on the courts.
After completing their non-conference 
record at 2-2, the tennis players are heading 
in a winning direction in the Pennwood 
West Conference.
Short finishes fifth
Runners take 2nd in tourny
By FRANK MATOUSEK
Tartan Staffxvriter 
When the running gets tough, CMU runs 
tougher. This was the case last Saturday, 
September 25, at the Indiana Invitational 
Cross Country meet CMUs runners fin
ished second overall in this prestigious meet 
to Division I powerhouse West Virginia
University. The meet was run on a beautiful 
golf course in Indiana, Pennsylvania.
Camegie-Mellons performance in this 
meet made it very satisfying for Coach Gary 
Meckley. In fact, according to the coach, it 
was one of his most satisfying meets. This is 
because the Tartans beat Allegheny College, 
continued on page 18
photo b\ George Tsao-Wu
Tartan tennis player Bridget Kvne smashes one over the net in last weeks tennis action.
ASECN. Inc.
New cable station created

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanSeptember 28, 1982
Birdy intramural golf tournament upcoming
IM football schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office, room 104, gym. 
Standings are posted on the IM bulletin 
board. Officials must make all assigned 
games they are scheduled to referee. After the 
last game erf the day is completed, all equip
ment must be brought to the IM shed.
Intramural tennis matches must be 
played as scheduled. Please turn in results to 
the IM office. Standings are also posted on 
the IM bulletin board.
Its still not too late to enter a team into 
the IM chess. Comm. Ed Klehr x8646 needs 
players. All matches will be posted on the 
bulletin board soon.
Hal Powell x3732 is the new comm, of 
water polo. He would like all teams to sign 
up for pool practice time. Games will start 
next week. Remember, each team must pro
vide a certified life guard for each practice 
and scheduled match. All equipment can be 
picked up in the IM equipment room.
Cross Country also has a new comm.,
Terry Klousky x5975. The meet will take 
place on Thursday Oct. 21 at 4:30 p.m. The 
course will be 1.9 miles in Schenley Park. 
You may run as a 5 person team or as an 
individual.
The annual E.J. Birdy Open IM Golf 
Tournament will be held Sunday October 
3rd at the Schenley Park Golf Course. Tee 
off time starts at 11:00 a.m. and you may 
enter as an individual or as a 5 person team. 
Comm. Jim Borowicz 682-5588 will answer 
all questions.
Co-Rec Volleyball with comm. Joe Bares 
x3405 or 367-2959 will begin soon. Three 
males and 3 females must play on the team 
at a time. Please check the bulletin board for 
practice times and game schedules. All 
equipment can be checked out at the IM 
equipment room.
Entries are due for the following sports on 
Thursday Oct. 7 at 4:30 p.m.: bowling 
raquetball, and team table tennis. All three 
need commissioners.
Easy victory
Volleyball beats Penn State
The womens volleyball team kicked off 
their pre-season with a home match against 
Penn State-McKeesport, Sept. 16. It was a 
quick victory for the Tartans, who won the 
first three games easily 15-8, 15-8, 15-5. 
There was a good serve run by Yvonne Chi 
in the second game. Sophomore hitter 
turned setter, Helen Clark, did very well her 
first day as a setter.
The team consists of returning seniors 
Janet Szwarc (captain), Sue Ann Illig, and 
Yvonne Chi, sophomores Helen Clark, 
Andrea Day, and Nancy Baird, and fresh
man Janet Stariha, Sue Jordan, Katie Shan
non, Karen Lee, and Karen Kmetz, and 
manager Laura Frissora. Coach Jane Fisk 
stated that The freshman are doing very 
well and we have a very promising team. We 
are fortunate to have good setters.
Wednesday, Sept. 22, the Tartans hosted 
Duquesne in a tough match. The team lost 
to the Division I team 2-15, 10-15, and 6-15, 
but they are hoping the tournament in 
Wheeling Sept. 24 and 25 will give them 
p enty of practice playing as a team.
The volleyball team travels to Indiana 
today and Waynesburg on Thursday this 
week.
PROCTER & GAMBLE
Technical Seminar
Procter & Gamble will be conducting an informal seminar 1  
4 p.m. Monday. October 4, in Room 12 in Skibo. Persons 
interested in careers in Manufacturing Management, Product 
Development, or Management Systems Design are invited to 
leam more about opportunities available with Procter & 
Gamble.
We are interested in Bachelors or Masters degrees in all 
engineering disciplines, Applied Math with Computer Science 
degree, and MSIAs with technical undergraduate degree.
Representatives from the following P&G divisions will be 
available to discuss specific job opportunities:
Management Systems Product Development 
Manufacturing Management
PROCTER & GAMBLE 
INTERVIEW DATES ARE 
OCTOBER 26 8c 27
Sign up at the Placement Office 
You must be a U.S. citizen or hold 
a permanent immigrant visa.
We are an Equal Opportunity Employer
IM FOOTBALL
FACE MASKING
Skull Krushers
WIN
1
LOSS
1
MAJORS
AFCWINLOSS
GDI
Whankers
0
0
2
1
ATO A00Crash Crew%0
Beta A00Schlag A-310
Harrys Tavern00INTERFERENCEWINLOSSPIKA A10E-Force11
SAE A01Chem. Abstracts01
NFCWINLOSSSigma Nu01
KS A00Renegades20
Coachs All Stars10Sun Devils00
Stabbers II01ROUGHINGWINLOSS
Wild Bunch00SAE11
INTERMEDIATESArmy ROTC02
HAMSTRINGWINLOSSDohertys Ds01
The Oslo Men20The Wade Squad20
First Years01DTD10
MSI SUPA01HOLDINGWINLOSS
1 Bike Motor Gang01The Spliffs02
Boys From Brado10Trojans20
Bossmen00T&A10
LATSWINLOSSBlack is Back11
ZBT A10Mike Cant Throw01
Phi Kap A 11
The House 0 2
The Flickers 1 1
Steroid Connection 1 0
Beta AA 0 0
TRAPS WIN LOSS
Hitmen 0 1
Big Beef Burrito 1 0
Sigma Nu 0 1
ATOII 0 1
Taps 2 0
QUADS WIN LOSS
D-Force 1 1
Theta Xi A 10
Y. Us Pedes 2 0
DU I 0 3
The Tech Police 1 1
MINORS
HEAD SLAP WIN LOSS
Phi Kap B 0 1
Hairy Mollusks 2 0
PIKA C 1 0
Ozzies Wizards 0 1
Flying Armadillos 0 1
CLIPPING WIN LOSS
3-E 2 0
7-E Lunatics 1 1
DU II 0 0
Whalers 0 1
KS B 0 1
OFF SIDES WIN LOSS
GWANGI 2 0
Who Cares II 10
Theta Xi B 0 2
NP Completions 1 1
Fatsos 0 1
WOMENS 
TEAMS WIN LOSS
5-E 0 0
DDD 0 0
GSIA 1 0
KKG 0 1
Fruit of the Loom 0 0
CM U takes 2nd
continued from page 17
who is CMUs main rival in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference. However, this was a 
satisfying meet for the coach for another 
reason. The CMU harriers also beat Indiana 
University (the host of the meet). This is the 
first time Camegie-Mellon has beaten Indi
ana, which is a very good accomplishment, 
since Indiana was sixth in the nation in last 
years Division II national cross country 
meet.
Impressive performances last weekend 
were turned in by Mike Short and John 
Wessels, the teams dynamic, All-American 
duo. Short and Wessels both finished in the 
top ten, out of a field erf 168. Short finished 
in sixth place and Wessels finished in ninth 
place, and both received awards for their 
efforts. The other scorers for the team were 
Kevin Brewer (20th place), Eric Lee (25th 
place), and Chris Shaffer (31st place). 
CMUs first and fifth runners finished only 
one minute and five seconds apart, which is 
very good, especially in a meet of this 
caliber.
What all this means, is that the Tartans 
continued on page 22
day.
...may not keep the doctoraway but, there 
are other things that might. Find out what 
they are in HEALTHSTYLE, a self-test with 
lots of information about all those health 
risks we keep hearing about. It tells you where you stand, and suggests what choices 
you have to help achieve a healthier life. You'll leam that HEALTHY PEOPLE HELP THEMSELVES!
For your free copy of HEALTHSTYLE a 
self-test, write:HEALTHSTYLE 
Box 47
Washington, D.C. 20044
ut IWUMOCMUIWIHixrr ISMII

---------------------------------------------------

Student Capers
Games, Prizes 
Fun for everyone 
Friday, October 8 noon-4:30 p.m.
on the cut
Mr. & Miss Varsity 
Competition
Submit your entry forms
NOW
Deadline Wednesday, Sept. 29 
Any organization that hasnt 
received a form, contact
SARC at x2060, WH 505
The Student-A lumni Relations Council Presents
HOMECOMING 82
October 8, 9
Join The Parades!
Torchlight Parade
Friday at 9:30 p.m. at 
the Morewood Gardens 
Courtyard
Bonfire/Pep Rally
IM Field
Fireworks
Tech Stadium
Float Competition
Saturday, October 9 
First Prize $50 
Second/Third Prize $25 
Any group is eligible to enter 
For more details, contact SARC 
at x2060, WH 505

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanSeptember 28, 1982
photo by Chuck Hartmann
Gene Roddenberry and Susan Petrie talk about Star Trek, science fiction, and the future.Roddenberry interview
Cast and crew responsible for 
Afoot's success at Playhouse
continued from page 13
Tartan: Do you think the Star Trek films 
are comparable to the TV series?
Roddenberry: I think the people we 
brought in are pretty good. You cant com
pare television straight with films because 
television is an intimate medium. You really 
get in to how people feel. Thats really the 
heart of television drama. Movies try to do a 
difficult thing, try to create an illusion that 
you are there, seeing it happen.
Tartan: Would you say that the televi
sion series was better for the Star Trek con
cept than the films?
Roddenberry: No, I think were finding 
the direction to go on to movies; itll take a 
couple movies to do it.
Tartan: You had tried to turn your two 
TV movies, Genesis II and The Questor 
Tapes into network series, but the attempt 
wasnt successful Why do you think those 
ideas didnt catch on?
Roddenberry: CBS was going to buy
Genesis II. They hadus penciled in but 
along came that monkey series  Planet of 
the Apes; they thought the apes were cute.. 
.Also, they didnt want science fiction in 
those days. Science fiction was dead. I 
couldnt even get Paramount to make a Star 
Trek movie till Star Wars came out.. .Star 
Trek during all those historical years was 
considered an odd, happen-chance success.
Tartan: What do you think of the new 
science fiction genre? Like Star Wars and 
E.T.?
Roddenberry: I think theyre pretty good. 
I liked Star Wars. Its a little more fantasy 
than science fiction, but theres nothing 
wrong with that.. .1 like a number of them; 
some of them became too much rocket-shipzap-gun and science fiction is a broader 
thing than that.
The conclusion of the Roddenberry inter
view will appear in the next issue of The 
Tartan.
continued from page 13
roles. Miriam J. Kelly as Lady Grace 
Manley-Prose, the corpulant Grand Dame, 
annoyingly sings all her lines in an inaudi
ble operatic soprano, while bumping, 
grinding and eating her way across the 
stage. Joseph Clements Colonel Gilweather, yet another victim, is the same ole 
tired interpretation of a Gilbert and Sulli
van elder  the rosy-cheeked, mumbling 
stumbling Major General rehashed.
Then there are John Amplas as the 
Dichensian caretaker Flint, Cynthia Crass as 
the ingenue Hope Langdon and Clive, the 
butler, all of whom make no impression on 
this production at all. Clive at least has the 
excuse erf being murdered in the opening 
moments, but Ms. Crass and Mr. Amplas 
blandly fade into the scenery.
The bargain-basement performances are 
matched only by inferior production values. 
Choreographer Ron Tassone has created 
dances barely suitable for high school pro
ductions, filling the stage with swaying, 
flailing arms and uncoordinated kicklines. 
The sound effects were poorly timed and 
one had to strain to hear the taped explana
tion of the murders. Although the beauti
fully detailed red and gold entrance hall set 
(designed by Eileen Garrigan) helped to 
create a 1930s atmosphere, the costumes 
(designed by Joan Market) did little of the 
same. Miss Tweed, a poor parody of the 
infamous Miss Marple, wears a suit that 
might have been taken from the Adolfo fall 
collection, and the Colonel looks as if he has 
just returned from the deepest of Africa dur
ing the late 19th Century.
The only performer with a costume suita
ble for a 1930s setting is the one talent sav
ing this production from drowning in its 
own body fluid. Among an under-rehearsed 
cast, Kathi Flemings poison tongued maid 
Lettie surpasses the one-sided cartoon char
acters th other ensemble players create. Des
pite an unbelievable thick Cockney accent, 
(due to the bad ear of director and dialect 
coach Don Wadsworth), Ms. Fleming uses 
irrepressable comic timing and high-volt 
energy to bring Lettie to a boiling mixture 
of enchanting naivete, high-strung neuro
sis, and dead-pan naughtiness.
Ms. Flemings performance is not the 
only reason warranting a trip to the Playcontinued on page 21
Kathi Flemming stars in Somethings 
Afoot at the Pittsburgh Playhouse. The 
play is a light comedy.
I HeyCMU, 
party with The Pumperl
With The Pumper you can start a party anywhere. The plastic, no-deposit, no-retum, quarter keg holds nearly three-and~a-half cases of cokl Iron City or MX Light. Just add ice and insert the reusable Pumper tap and you re ready to rip. Pick up The Pumper at
Ptttsburgti, F*

---------------------------------------------------

September 28, 1982The TartanPage 21
Spielberg's masterpiece is full of spacy air
continued from pege 14
entertaining. I enjoy a thread of reality to at 
least hold a story together. What 
technologically-advanced civilization is 
going to survive if there only 38 and 
green? And given that they do survive, they 
sure as hell arent going to leave anything as 
ugly as E.T. around to prove they were here! 
A beautiful marble monument maybe, but a 
midget, with a neck like the power antenna 
on the 74 Cadillac  never.
Next comes Eliots discovery of our alien 
friend. This was of course a touching scene, 
but, once again unbelievable. What would 
you say is the most practical link between a 
boy and an alien being? A good guess might 
by a pocket calculator, or a video game. In 
the movie their common ground is a 1- 
pound bag of Reeses pieces which in reality 
would totally corrode any alien digestive 
system not used to such high doses of sugar. 
But facts are not important here; this is 
science fiction, with the emphasis on fiction. 
More science and less fiction would have 
made a much better movie.
The whole approach to E.T. was poor. Be 
honest, if some midget, with internal organs 
that glow like the inside of a Bessemer fur
nace, wobbles into your yard, regardless of 
your age, are you going to invite him up to
Tull still unique
continued from page 15
ful in setting a tone by creating an air of 
mysticism, but at no time carries the band, a 
flaw too common in todays popular 
groups.
Guitarist Martin Barre sounds uncannily 
like Richie Blackmore (Rainbow, Deep Pur
ple, etc.) in his ever-complementing, leadyet-rhythm style, especially in the tracks 
Broadsword and Seal Driver. And the 
drums of Gerry Conway, so often a vital part 
of a passage or mood, at no time overpower 
the other parts of the music.
Multitalented Ian Anderson and his 
omnipresent flute, with a litde help from 
Vettese, has masterfully kept his unique 
style and created fresh material that appeals 
to the medieval fancy in us all.
your room? This creature has travelled mil
lions of miles from some unknown world, 
with unknown germs and diseases, and yet 
you want him to help grow geraniums.
Fortunately Eliots household remains 
normal. E.T., on the other hand, has by now 
rewired a See and Spell to teach him how 
to communicate with humans. If not to 
communicate, at least he learns enough 
English to launch Ma Bells greatest adver
tising campaign since weekend rates. E.T. 
Phone Home. God, I hope I dont get the 
bill for that one.
Fitting with the entire movie, E.T.s 
phone link to his world is as functionally 
accurate as trying to hit the moon with a 
slingshot. E.T.s transmitter consists of an 
old phonograph, a circular saw blade, a 
dinner fork, a length of 100-lb. fishing line
and an unbrella as an entenna. Naturally, 
this is all powered by a pine tree swaying 
crazily in a summer rain storm. How this 
tinker toy monstrosity manages to bridge a 
distance light-years from earth is beyond 
anyone who has the least knowledge of tele
communications. Finally the inevitable 
happens and E.T. is cornered by the 
National Authorities. The governments 
scientific methods are scarier than any alien 
could ever hope to be. Not to mention that 
their prime concern, the welfare of the alien, 
is lost in a shuffle of beaurocratic regula
tions. E.T., unable to protect himself 
against earth diseases, shortly succumbs 
fatally to the common cold. E.T.s almost 
dead and Spielberg could have ended a 
much too long movie almost soon enough. 
The late, great E.T. is put into deep freeze
for later study.
Suddenly, to my utter horror, the rescue 
ship arrives and E.T. is once again showing 
signs of life. Eliot, in a last ditch effort to 
save his new friend from scientific scrutiny, 
rounds up the neighborhood boys to escort
E.T. to the safety erf the ship.
A chase scene ensues which would have 
made Walt Disney proud. Complete with 
flying bicycles, E.T.s 12-year-old mercenar
ies totally outsmart, outdrive and outfly the 
local and national authorities. They arrive 
at the alien vessel undetected and E.T. goes 
home, thank goodness.
I hope aliens dont take the welcome we 
gave E.T. seriously. If they do, itll be like a 
class reunion and every Reeses piece on the 
planet will be devoured.
French film shows some flaws
continued from page 14
films first flaw. Having viewed only the 
commonplace existence of the Lemaires, 
we are not prepared to experience any pro
found emotions regarding them. The film 
has not given us time to appreciate emo
tional attachment between Jeanne and 
Gerard. We would like to feel badly for 
Jeanne, but find it difficult because we can
not perceive what she has lost. Her struggles 
are, therefore, somewhat lacking in compell
ing emotion. We need to feel that she has 
lost the staple of her life; we need to feel 
more of Jeannes desperation.
The film does try. Jeannes face at the 
realization that her husband has died (she is 
never explicidy told) is the films most affect
ing 60 seconds. To actress Giradots credit, 
moments like this ad those that follow are 
what hold the film together. Giradot nearly 
overcomes that films flawed beginning, and 
through capturing the emotion of privatePlot does not carry comedy
continued from page 20
house. Somethings Afoot, originally pro
duced off-Broadway at the American 
Conservatory Theatre, is very rarely per
formed (for good reason), but it provides a 
chance to hear two songs that would have 
become classics had they had a sturdier show 
surrounding them.
The Man with the Ginger Mustache, a 
sizzling torch song, is a sure heart melter, but 
director Wadsworth has added a comedic 
touch, thus leaving the audience unaffected. 
The most memorable and one of the most 
sinfully funny tunes ever sung on a stage, is 
the double-entendre Dinghy. As Flint
suggests to Lettie that they can escape from 
the insanity of the Rancour estate with the 
help of his boat, he sings, Ive got a teeny 
litde dinghy just big enough for you and 
me, and A teeny litde dinghys better than 
no dinghy at all.
Unfortunately, two songs and a terrific 
performance do not a hit make. It will be 
many full moons before a creative and 
deadly pen comes along to match that of 
the mistress of mayhem. In the meantime, 
everyones best bet is to use their detective 
skills deciding if Miss Scarlet used the 
revolver in the kitchen or the dining room.
moments, allows us to perceive Jeannes 
inner turmoil.
Despite the films faults, Giradot makes 
us pay attention. Her characterization is full, 
appealing, and most importantly, human. 
The screen play does, occassionally, skirt 
chances to make explicit Jeannes motiva
tions, but Giradots intelligence and downto-earth quality let us feel with the character 
of Jeanne.
Jeannes children are equally appealing, 
but it is a shame that the film neglects them. 
We are not given a chance to see how the 
children deal with their fathers death, and 
they appear only intermittendy throughout 
the film. Giulia Salutori is especially fine as 
Catherine, Jeannes eldest and most sympa
thetic child.
Overall, the film does well at depicting a 
widows loneliness. Jean-Pierre Cassel gives 
a fine performance as Pierre, the man with 
whom Jeanne attempts to seek permanent 
solace. Despite flaws, the film leaves one 
somehow satisfied. (Rating 3 beauties)
(Rating system 
illustrated by 
Dinty Moore)
DIVINE LITURGY
St. Basil's Orthodox ChristianFellowship
(Rev. Fr. Alexander Webster, Chaplain  363-6752)
Sundays, 10 a.m., Skibo Chapel
(Room 39)
PREPARE FOR
MCAT  LSAT *GM AT 
ST DAT *GRE  CPA
Permanent Centers open days, 
evenings and weekends.
Low hourly cost. Dedicated full
time staff.
Complete TEST-n-TAPEsvfacilities 
for review of class lessons and 
supplementary materials.
Small classes taught by skilled 
instructors.
 Opportunity to make up missed 
lessons.
 Voluminous home-study materials 
constantly updated by research
ers expert in their field.
 Opportunity to transfer to and 
continue study at any of our 
over 85 centers.
OTHER COURSES AVAILABLE
GRE PSYCH & BIO  MAT  PCAT  OCAT  VAT  TOEFL 
MSKP  NMB  VQE  ECFMG  FLEX  NOB  NLE
Cal'Days Eve. A V.o-k1
 Essex House L12
| M Corners Center, Negley & Baur 
Pittsburgh, Pa 15206
EDUCATIONAL CENTER
TEST PREPARATION 
SPECIALISTS SINCE 1938661-2772
LEGAL SERVICES RELATED TO IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION
John S. Brendel 
Buchanan, Ingersoll, Rodewald, Kyle & Buerger*,
Professional CorporationTEMPORARY VISAS PERMANENT VISAS (GREEN CARDS)LABOR CERTIFICATIONS RELATIVE PETITIONS CITIZENSHIP 
600 Grant Street 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15219 
412-562-8972
Pennsylvania does not recognize or certify legal specialties.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22The TartanSeptember 28, 1982
Attack of the killer stench
By NELSON GUDA
Special to the Tartan
It started in the basement of Doherty 
apartments, the day before September the 
thirteenth. School had been in session for 
only three weeks; peoples defenses were 
down, and no one was expecting 
the horrible thing that was 
about to happen. Then, it 
began. A clogged toilet: the sub
tie attack of a hideously evil creature was 
beginning to take form. But the innocent 
freshman residing in the apartment went 
about their business as usual, never giving a 
thought to the foreboding waft of sewer air 
from the toilet after they had called housing 
maintenance.
A day passed. It was September the thir
teenth, and maintenance had not yet arrived. 
The five CMU freshmen left for their classes 
still unaware of what was happening in 
their bathroom. Thai afternoon the creature 
struck. In between classes, one of the fresh
men came back to the apartment and 
opened the door to the bathroom. Oh my 
God! he screamed, slamming the door in 
horror. But it was too late, his olfactory 
senses had received a fatal blow. The Stench 
had claimed its first victim. That night the 
students slept in terror. Not daring to open 
the bathroom door, they were forced to 
make midnight runs to Skibo for use of its 
facilities.
For two more days and nights this horror 
movie plight continued with no sign of help 
on the way. Every day the troubled students 
called maintenance, begging and pleading 
for aid, yet no one responded, and the Stench 
grew more putrid by the minute. Each hour 
in the apartment chilled their blood by 
another degree.
The fifth day found all five students wav
ering on the edge of insanity. Three were in 
classes drawing obscure and disgusting
sketches in their notebooks while the other 
two sat in their bedroom, nervously tapping 
their pencils, knowing that the Stench was 
waiting patiently behind the bathroom door 
only a few paces away. Suddenly there was a 
knock on the front door. The two freshmen 
ran to open it, finding two men garbed in 
sickly green uniforms and armed with 
deadly plungers  maintenance had arrived 
at last.
Within a few moments the lovely sound 
of a flushing toilet echoed out of the small 
bathroom. But the battle was not over yet.
The students smelled the Stench coming, 
searing through the air in rank bloodlust, 
one panicked and ran, the other stood his 
ground courageously, caught his breath, 
and armed himself with a can of spray Lysol 
in one hand and an alpine valley scented 
room deoderant in the other. In seconds the 
Stench surrounded him, and he was locked 
in nasal combat, waving and spraying at the 
foul creature of the air.
The battle seemed to last for hours until 
finally the Stench fled, beaten by the power
ful chemical deoderants wielded by the mer
ciless student. Contented, the victorious 
freshman retired to the cleansed bathroom.
Maturity, luck 
keys to nat'ls
continued from page 18
are competing well at this time of the year. 
However, they still have a long way to go in 
order to get to the Division III National 
Championships. Coach Meckley com
mented that it looks like the team is ahead of 
last years team at this point in the season, 
but its hard to say. About the nationals at 
the end of the season, Coach Meckley said, 
It depends on how our team matures and 
how we run on that one day.
Excellent... Entertaining... Significant." N.Y. Press
'DtamcitCc Dance
( An Artistic form of story-telling )
pa Tie &ut
12:00-1:00 Mon., Tues., Thurs. Sept. 27-30 
also SKIBO Ballroom, Thurs. evening 8:00pm
C'CVuteyU-TKeUo*
682*7374 683-5354
Grand Opening Special
Quality food at junk food prices. Tues.  Wed., 
Sept. 28 & 29 Buy one sandwich get second sand
wich of equal value free.
Offer good only after 7:00 p.m.
Open MF: 8 a.m.3 a.m 
Sat.Sun.: 9 a.m.3 a.m.
3803 Forbes Ave.
Ben Smith, a senior video major, regularly creates visually impressive images for recording 
and eventual broadcast This imagery is to be telecast to Europe for viewing there.

---------------------------------------------------

Flying. By W. Yolen. Photos and illus. 
throughout. Leam the fine art of fishing, 
gliding, dropping bombs and building 
bridges with kites. Ind. instructions for 
making over 85 kites, contest locations, 
manufacturers and kiting organizations. 
Softbound.
Only $1.98
The Origin of Species. By Charles Darwin. 
Nearly 100 illus. Superb new edition of the 
book that revolutionized the study of 
biology and permanendy altered mans 
idea of his earthly origins. Distinguished 
as one of the most readable and accessible 
works of the scientific imagination ever 
written, this edition is exquisitely illus. 
with the work of masterful 19th century 
engravers.
Special only $6.98
Bullfinch's Mythology. Illus. The classic 
collection of the beloved myths and 
legendary lore. This complete edition incl. 
The Age of Fable, which features tales of 
the Greek and Roman gods and heroes; 
The Age of Chivalry, featuring stories of 
King Arthur and his Knights; Legends of 
Charlemagne, featuring tales of the 
French King and his court.
Special Value only $6.98
Albert Einstein: Relativity. Straight
forward laymans explanation  written 
by Einstein himself  of the epochmaking theory that ushered in the atomic 
age.
New, complete ed. $2.98
Picasso by Josep Palau I Fabre. from the 
point of view that the artist was affected 
from the time of his birth by his surround
ings and the ever changing technology 
and politics of the times, 150 full color 
plates represent Picassos works form his 
first drawings as a child to three character
istic paintings done in 1972. Index.
Special $9.98
All Good Things Around Us by Pamela 
Michael, illustrated by Christabel King. 
Illustrated with dozens of full color 
paintings of common plants and herbs 
ranging from basil, dandelion and sorrel 
to the more exotic ramson, sea beet, and 
meadowsweet. This is both a cookbook 
and field guide to the identification of 
foodstuffs from the wild. Over 380 recipes 
of soup, sauces, main dishes, teas, syrups 
and more.
Only $12.98
emu bookstore*
IN BAKER HALL
The New Webster Encyclopedic 
Dictionary of die English Language.
15,000 entries. Incl. a Dictionary of 
Synonyms and 12 supplementary 
reference sections: Popular Quotations; 
Classical Mythology; Business Law Sc 
Finance; Names; The Story of America in 
332 Pictures; 211 Flags in Color; 
biographies of the Presidents from 
Washington to Reagan with their pictures 
in color; Space Age Terms with 15 plates 
in color. More than 1,400 pages, large 
format 8H by 1P4, over 5S inches thick, 
weighs over 5 lbs. Handsome leatherlike 
binding with simulated gold stamping 
and edges, head and foot bands
Only $15.95
The Complete Works of William 
Shakespeare. 28 illus. Complete and 
unabridged edition containing every word 
that Shakespeare wrote  all 37 tragedies, 
comedies and histories, plus the sonnets, 
etc.
New, 1 Vol. Ed. Only $6.98
Websters Crossword Puzzles Dictionary.
Handy new reference for puzzle fans offer
ing over 50,000 entries in easy-to-use dic
tionary form. Special sections cover words' 
and phrases relating to American and for
eign peoples, names and nicknames, 
nature terms, plus much more! 512 pages.
Special $4.98
Figure Drawing By J. Raynes. Approx. 
200 illus. Coherent, proven method of 
learning to draw the human figure. 
Progresses from simple overall shapes to 
details of weight, light and shade, clothing 
and composition in a series of stimulating 
projects. Essential for art students and 
their teachers.
Special Only $7.98
The Complete Encyclopedia of 
Illustration. By J. G. Heck. 11,725 detailed 
illus. Extraordinarily comprehensive vol. 
packed with gorgeous steel engravings 
and explanatory captions will delight 
artists, illustrators, researchers or anyone 
looking for copyright-free, reproducible 
material, as well as those interested in 19th 
century artwork and lovers of fine books. 
Arranged by subject incl. astronomy, 
mathematics, history, architecture, fine 
arts, military sciences, mythology, etc. 
These breathtaking illus. are exquisitely 
precise, scientifically accurate and 
aesthetically beautiful. Exquisite reprint 
of classic 1851 edition. Over 500 pages.
Extraordinary Value Only $15.%
Babys Book Quilted Fabric. Heres a 
wonderful new way to record the special 
moments erf babys first five years. Incl. 
sections on special firsts  teeth, step, 
etc., space for medical and dental records, 
hints for new parents, baby gift log, 
picture album, even a place for a lock of 
hair, much more.
Only $6.98
The Gourmet Chinese Regional 
Cookbook by Calvin ami Audrey Lee. The 
treasures erf Chinese cuisine in 300 recipes 
and menus, informing utensil use, 
shopping hints and preparation. Provided 
are authentic dishes form Chinas main 
regions. Shanghai, Peking, Szechuan and 
Canton, distinctive for their related yet 
individual flavors. General index, 
histories, recipes.
SALE $4.98
Impressionism. By the editors of Realities; 
preface by Rene Huyghe. Collection of 
Impressionistic an that captures the fervor 
of the revolutionary painters as they 
tumbled the bastion erf academicism. 
Eight chapters of excellent text explores 
the social, cultural & political background 
erf France; illustrates the protagonists erf 
the events described and the works erf 
hundreds erf classicists reproduced in 
color. Index of painters; bibliography, list 
erf illustrations.
Sak $22.98
Agatha Christies Detectives: Five 
Complete Novels. New one-volume 
edition of five novels featuring four erf 
Christies best-known detectives. Incl. 
Murder at the Vicarage (Miss Marple), 
Dead Man's Folly (Hercule Poirot), Sad 
Cypress (Hercule Poirot), Towards Zero 
(Superintenelent Batde), and N or M 
(Tommy and Tuppence Beresford). 720 
pages.
New, Only $6.98
The Original Illustrated Sherlock Holmes
By Arthur Conan Doyle, illustrated by Sid
ney Paget. Reprexluced in complete fac
simile are all the original Holmes stories as 
they first appeared in The Strand, Bri
tains famed magazine  37 short stories 
plus the complete novel The Hound of the 
Baskervilles. Over 350 drawings by Paget 
accompany the text.
Special $6.98
John Bartlett Familiar Quotations Now
for the first time, this printing restores to 
circulation the original edition, just as 
John Bartlett himself arranged it. An 
enchanting reflection of American culture 
in the nineteenth century.
$3.98
Complete Airbrush Book. Revised 1980 
Eelition. By S. Ralph Maurello. The most 
comprehensive manual on the airbrush 
ever published. A complete visual instruc
tion course with over 400 illustrations in 
color and black and white. Explains in 
simple language, airbrush techniques, 
uses, etc. as well as the care and mainte
nance of the airbrush itself.
Special Value Only $14.98
The Faeries Pop-Up Book. Full color popups take you to the land of Faerie where it 
is always spring, and pixies ream playing 
mischievous pranks on maidens and 
youths.
Only $3.98
The Treasured Writings of Kahlil Gibran.
Author of The Prophet. This book 
represents the most comprehensive 
volume of works of Gibran. An enriching 
collection of stories, parables and essays, 
comprising the major bcxiy of Kahlil 
Gibrans works. Offers 10 books in a 
beautifully bound volume. Truly a 
collectors masterpiece.
Special Value only $9.98
Pac-Mania By the editors of Consumer 
Guide. Over 50 full color photos. 
Complete coverage of the Pac-Man 
phenomenon. Incl. how to beat Pac-Man 
arcade games, home video games and 
board games; review of Pac-Man 
promotional products; tables and charts; 
more.
Special only $3.98
Grays Anatomy: The Classic Color 
Collectors Edition. 780 detailed illus. and 
diagrams, incl. 172 color plates. This 
landmark 1901 edition erf one erf the 
greatest reference works of all time is a 
must for physicians, students, artists, and 
the medically curious. The 1248 page text 
is teeming with fascinating information. 
New intro., quality printing, handsome 
binding, and a fantastic low price.
Only $8.98
The Architecture of Europe. By D.
Yarwcxxl. Nearly 1,000 drawings and 
photos. One erf the most comprehensive 
surveys available of European architecture 
from its beginnings to the 1970s. Covers 
all the major historical styles, from earlv 
Christian, Romanesque and Gothic to 
Eclecticism and Modernism, with full 
treatment given to many geographic 
regions not covered in other surveys. 598 
pages.
New, complete ed. only $12.98
Ellery Queen: Five Complete Novels. Five 
superbly constructed mysteries from the 
master erf the American detective story. 
Incl. And on the Eighth Day; The Player 
on the Other Side; Inspector Queens Own 
Case; Cat of Many Tails; Double, Double. 
720 pages.
New, 1 Vol. ed. Only $6.98
Einsteins Universe. By Nigel Calder. 
Brilliantly written book unlocks the 
astounding implications of Einsteins 
revolutionary theories on the nature erf 
space, time and motion. Far surpasses any 
previous explanation of relativity for 
laymen.
New, complete ed. Only $3.98

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classified
(Jsed furniture for sale. Sofa $75.00; easy 
chairs $30.00 each, sturdy, comfortable, good 
condition. Phone 521-7445 or x3671.
Whammer Jammers (4-wing boomerangs) for 
sale. Easy to fly and cheaper than frisbees  $5. 
Call Richard, 421-1288 Evenings.
Free to loving home: Adorable 6-week old collieshep puppy. Paper-trained, friendly. Must part 
due to landlord. Call Andrea, 578-8901.
Rossignol graphite 200 midsize tennis racket 
Black VS gut. Supreme grip. 2 months old, $100. 
Call 243-0949.
Office space. The University and City Ministries 
in Oakland has office space available for non
profit service oriented organizations. For infor
mation call 682-2751.
Female housemate wanted to share beautiful 
Forest Hills house with 3 CM 11 grads. Own 
bedroom. $116.75 8c up; worth the 15 minute 
drive! Call 683-2018(office), 243-1184(home).
Professional typing and word processing. Fast, 
efficient, reasonable. Sp>eeches, manuscripts, 
research papers, term papers. 24 hrs. service. 
Satisfaction guaranteed. For best results, call Ms. 
West. 371-3657.
Guitar Lessonsclassical, jazz, pop. 3rd year 
CMU student. 1/2 hr. $6; 1 hr. $10. Call Jozsef 
Toth. 683-7331.
Improve Your Grades! Research catalog-306 
pages-10,278 topics. Rush $1.00 Box 25097C Los 
Angeles, CA 90025. (213)477-8226.
Problems with school, work, or with significant 
others sometimes seem overwhelming. Very 
often professional counseling can help. Call Bill 
Chrisner, 427-0734 for more information.
Professional typing/word processing: Thesis, 
manuscripts, research, resume, repetitive letters, 
etc. (MLAAPA and Turabian strongly 
observed.) Large variety of typefaces and 24 hr. 
service available. Call Ms. West. 371-3657. 
Satisfaction guaranteed.
general
REST EASY; youve already been bom. 
Brought to you by the Camegie-Mellon Univer
sity Association for Life.
The Word of the Week
The Mortar Board Society presents the word of 
the week: the word is UXOR1AL pertaining to 
or characteristic of a wife. This is the first of a 
weekly series of words to enlighten and entertain 
you.
The European Studies Program will again be 
offering a prize for the best essay in European 
Studies (any subject pertaining to Europe) by an 
undergraduate at Camegie-Mellon University. 
The award for the best essay will be $150; essays 
are due Ap>ril 15, 1983. For further information 
contac t Dr. Peter N. Steams, Department of His
tory, BH 242B, x2884.
Last years winner was Stephen C Macy, for 
his paper of Charles de Gaulle and the coun
trys honor, the states independence, and the 
nations prick .  Two other essays in a stiff com
petition were selected as runners-up. These were 
The Revolution Theatre of Bertold Brecht and 
Its Critique of Liberal Society, by Renee Rosenfeld, and An Analysis of Sir Edwin Lutyens 
Lindisfame Castle, by Thomas N. Fox.
President Richard M. Cyert will have op>en office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 p.m., in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Tuesday, October 12, 
1982. Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, to set 
up an appointment.
Bnai Brith Hillel Activities:
Thursday, Sept. 30, 6:30 p.m.
CMU Succah Building
Margaret Morrison Courtyard in front of Hillel 
House
Dessert will be served 
Saturday, Oct. 2, 2:00 p.m.
First day of Succcot Kiddush in Succah. Join us 
for an afternoon snack. The CMU Succah is 
located in the Margaret Morrison Courtyard in 
front of the Hillel House, and is op>en to the 
entire campus community for the entire week of 
Succot.
Draft Registration. What should you do? Coun
seling and support services at United Protestant 
Campus Ministries. Call 682-2751 or 682-1824.
Drop>-in Center. Get away from the campus for a 
while. Relax, pray, meditate, study, rap. United 
Protestant Campus Ministry at UACM Building, 
ath 8c Bellefield. Mon.-Thurs., 10 a.m.-2 p.m. 
Call 682-2751 or 682-1824.
An informal Bible discussion group meets every 
Monday in Room 34, Skibo Hall, at 9 pm. This 
discussion group is open to everyone in the CMU 
community and is nondenominational. Stop by, 
and bring a friend.
Catholic Mass continues daily at 12:30 in Skibo 
39 on Mon.-Fri. Sunday mass celebrated at 7:00 
each Sat. evening and 10:30 Sunday morning in 
the Multi-purpose room of Hunt Library. All 
welcome.
Jubilee Soup Kitchen. The Roman Catholic cha
plaincy' will be working at the Soup Kitchen 
which provides free meals for the poor on the 
west side of Oakland on Sat., Oct. 2nd from 
10-2. Call Oratory at 681-3181 for info. All 
welcome.
St Basils Orthodox Christian Fellowship will 
meet each Thursday at 7:30 p.m. in Skibo Room 
45 for group discussion, Bible study, and fellow
ship. Divine Liturgy' will be celebrated each Sun
day at 10:15 a.m. in Skibo Chapel (Room 39). All 
are'welcome.
Skibo worship. Room 39. Wednesdays at 1 p.m. 
United Protestant Campus Ministry (UPCM). 
682-2571 or 682-1824
United Methodist Church and six other denomi
nations support United Protestant Campus Min
istry. Call 682-2751 or 682-1824.
United Presbyterian Church and six other 
denominations support United Protestant Cam
pus Ministry. Call 682-2751 or 682-1824.
United Church of Christ Church and six other 
denominations support United Protestant Cam
pus Ministry. Call 682-2751 or 682-1824.
Episcopalian Church and six other denomina
tions support United Protestant Campus Minis
try. Call 682-2751 or 682-1824.
American Baptist Churches and six other denom
inations support United Protestant Campus 
Ministry. Call 682-2751 or 682-1824.
Church of the Brethren and six other denomina
tions support United Protestant Campus Minis
try. Call 682-2751 or 682-1824.
Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) and six
other denominations support United Protestant 
Campus Ministry. Call 682-2751 or 682-1824.
clubs
PREGNANT? correse
Let's talk about your options.
HOTLrNE: (412) 731-2420
PREGNANCY TESTING: 391-4706906 Penn Avenue, Downtown 
9-10 .m. MWF. 11-1 p.m. TTS
Free and confidential information, 
counseling, pregnancy testing, and 
related services
ALTERNATIVES TO ABORTION INC
 non-proM organization
CALL 978-2921
Pregnant?
And you didn't mean to be?
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621 -1988
WICI, Women in Communications Inc., will be 
holding a meeting for present and potential 
members today, Tueaday, September 28, at 5:30 
p.m. in Room 12 Skibo. All interested writing 
and design majors are encouraged to attend.
IEEE meeting will be held Friday, October 1 at 
4:30 p.m. in HH 400. Electrical engineering stu
dents, faculty, and staff are invited. Refreshments 
will be served. A tour of the Robitics Institute labs 
will be held for those who have signed up. Plans 
for future IEEE will be discussed.
Catholic Chaplins Undergraduate Group meets 
again this Wednesday night at 6:00 p.m. at the 
Oratory. Topic New Life. Call Andy or Pat at 
621-2911 for more info and/or walk up to the 
Oratory. Mass, free dinner and discussion. All 
welcome.
CMU Military Veterans Meeting. A meeting is 
scheduled to bring together military veterans 
who are faculty, students, or staff at CMU. Sep
tember 29, 7:30 p.m., Skibo room 12.
events
On Saturday, September 25 Pittsburgh Film 
Makers opens its doors at noon and invites the 
public (with a special emphasis on the student 
population) to come in and take a look around. 
There will be staff members on hand to give tours 
and answer questions about the PFMI facilities 
and offerings.
At 8:00 p.m. there will be a free screening of 
films by resident PFMI film-makers. Included 
will be works by Margaret Ahwesh, Tony Buba, 
Paul Glabicki, Brady Lewis, and Jim Vale. For 
more information call 681-5449. Location if 205 
Oakland Avenue.
The Pittsburgh Film-makers will present His 
Girl Friday on Wednesday and Thursday, 
September 29 and 30. The 1945 movie, which 
stars Cary Grant and Rosalind Russell, looks at 
the madcap chaos of (then) modem urban 
existence; life on the move with no solid ground 
underfoot. What is right, what is wrong? What 
can people do together, where can they find the 
time? Admission is $2.00, and showtimes are at 
8:00 and 10:00 p.m. at 205 Oakland Avenue. For 
more information call 681-5449.
The first of the Presidents Distinguished Lecture 
Series speakers will be Monday, October 4 in 
Skibo Ballroom at 4:00 p.m.: Eleanor Clift, 
White House Correspondent for Newsweek, 
Tide: AN ANECDOTAL LOOK AT THE 
REAGAN WHITE HOUSE. Ms. Clift will have 
lunch on Monday, October 4, with students inter
ested in careers in writing. Please call Susan Van 
Horn or Kathleen Ealing at extension 2925 if you 
are interested in attenting.
Hello Out There and Waiting for Lefty will run
Thursday thru Saturday evenings at 8 p.m. 
through October 16, at Carlow Colleges Anto
nian Theatre. The production are opened by the 
New Theatre Group. Tickets are $2, with a dis
count available for Carlow students, in keeping 
with the Groups desire to reach as broad-based 
an audience as possible. For reservations, call 
431-7662.
Are all toys inherendy good? Find out when 
Toymaker and Son, a dramatic dance com
pany comes to CMU. Performers will be at 12:00 
noon on Sept. 27,28, 8c 30 on the Cut, and at 8:00 
p.m. on Sept. 30 in the Skibo Ballroom. Spon
sored by Gateway Christian Community.
Breathless One of the most important films to 
come out of the New Wave that developed in 
Fmace in the early sixties. Jean-Paul Belmondos 
first major role parodies Humphrey Bogarts 
anarchic gangster. Directed by Jean-Luc Godard. 
Sponsored by the Office of the Dean, College of 
Humanities and Social Sciences, jointly spon
sored with the Department of History. French; 
English subtides. 89 minutes; black and white. 
Monday, October 25, Multi-Purpose Room of 
Hunt Library, 3:30 p.m..
Starting times for Pittsburgh Public Theatres
Friday and Saturday evening performances dur
ing the 1982-1983 Season have been changed to 
8:00. Sunday evening performances continue to 
begin at 7:00 and all matinees at 2:00.
The 1982-1983 Season curtain times are as fol
lows: evenings performances Tueadays through 
Saturdays  8:00 p.m.; evening performances 
Sundays  7:00; all matinees  2:00 p.m.
Phil Berrigan at Fall Retreat Blessed are the 
Peacemakers, October 15-17. Some scholarship 
aid available through United Protestant Campus 
Ministry. 682-2751 of 682-1824.
Behind the Semes in the Section of Entomology, 
which will take place from 9:30 a.m. to noon on 
Saturday, October 23, goes behind the museum 
exhibits and public spaces to the Section of Ento
mology, where scientists and staff members care 
for and study more than six milion butterflies, 
moths, beedes, and other insect specimens. Par
ticipants (ages ten and above) will tour the insect 
laboratory, leam the history of the collections, 
and observe the departments day-to-day curator
ial, research, and public activities.
The registration fee for adults is $10. Discounts 
are available for Carnegie Institute members. 
(For information on how to become a member, 
call 622-3314.) For registration details, call 622- 
3283 or write to the Section of Education, Carne
gie Museum of Natural History, 4400 Forbes 
Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
Jack and the Beanstalk will open the 1982-83 sea
son of the Playhouse Junior Childrens Theatre 
at the Pittsburgh Playhouse on Saturday, Sep
tember 24 at 2:00 p.m. This will mark the 34th 
consecutive season for the Playhouse Junior. The 
show will run through November 14, Saturdays 
and Sundays only, at 2:00 p.m.
THE LATEST IN ElECTONIC GAMES / PINBALL MACHINES
Domestics
12 oz. & 16 oi. cans (& quarts)
STROHS'
lOWENBRAU LK. Dk -bottles
MlCHELOB
BUDWEISER
MILLER'
OLD ENGLISH 800
SCHLITZ MALT'
IRON. CITY'
ERL ANGERbottles 
GENNESEE 
ROILING ROCK 
SCHMIDTS'
PABST'
SCHLITZ'
PEARL (Texas) bottles 
DOUBLE DARK-bottles 
BLATZ 
PtELS
OLD MILWAUKEE 
PINK CHAMPALE-bottles 
COLT 45'
MILLER LITE 
MICHEL OB LITE 
IRON CITY LIGHTovoitoble in quarts also
FEATURING 22 VARIETIES OF SUBSS'P! *Corned Beef*iuna*Turkey
SANDWICHES.Hictdoclt*Cod*Ground SteakSousoge Veol*Oiuck*Chicken Parmeson
SPECIALTY ITEMSStf<ik Subs^Fresh Cut French Fries Hot Dogs with choice of 12 condiments Pizzo served till 3um
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
Serving beer Sunday lpm-2am 
Imports, Cans, Quarts, Dioft Pitchers/Mugs 
Your Choice of 6 Draft Beers: 
HEINEKENMOLSON ALE*MICHELOB 
STROHS*MllLERSCHllTZ MALT 
One different 16 oz 6 pk 
featured each week:
STROHSROLLING ROCK#SCHtlTZ 
OLD ENGLISH 500*SCHUTZMAlT*PABST
-ImportsBECK 5 ft, Di Gernwmy ST PAUtlGlRl Genmmy
BASSAif Engl<wl DOS f QUtS XX Me,co
HAfcP tAGEP IfeliKHt JOHN COUKAGE fnyk.ii
MOtSON GOiDfN Cn<Kk. WATNHTS fmjk
Hf INfKf N II Ok Holtew 
lOWENBRAU Germ 
OttfKAlf CtKKKkl 
PliSNfH UROUf Ci 
KIRIN icipo.
utIttf WUM OCUHC
OlD VlfNNA lAGfS SMAGfR OwiiKki
fARISBfRG f If PHANT Den 
CASlSBfRG ROY AIE Demi, 
CARtSBERG DARK Denmark 
TSINGTAO Chm. i 
HACKfS I,Thess Gen 
I ABAT I S C<m<Kki 
i MURPHY kefiind 
COOPfR & SON Auslnil 
fOSTfR S LAGE* Austrt*
my
Open9am-3:45om Sun-Thurs 9am-4:45om Fri-Sat Coll 621 7388 or 621-1185 3901 Forbes Ave. (Oakland)
HOT DOG SHOPS, INC. Pg* Po 15213
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
