MSH S jumos PJtOK ...
MSHj umHosP J
DATE HASXAN HOTEL SGHEHLEY
AM COSTUMI BALL 
FBIDAT, 7XBSUABT ith 
BAS OBEGORY AKtS FOYSK
VOL. XXI NO. 18CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JANUARY 25, 1927
JUNIORS READY 
FOR 1927 PROM 
FRIDAY NIGHT
Thirty-Eight ^Veil-Known 
Guests on List of Popular 
Patrons and Chaperones
DAVEHARMAN PLAYS
Attractive Snpper Menu Work
ed Ont By Scheniey Ohefs. 
Novel .Favors Here.
lots /acuityand . fra* of the University  ot PUtsburghwill give areceptlon for members !of the Cosmopolitan Club lo January-28. Ttila ts a naorganlzation, made op of college and aaljrerelty  graduates*nd stoi : '
Pitt
proBlmately flftymemborawith.'presentation which ie tit* uot more than.two^ fifths. Their meetings, with Rjchart Tallimitt: of Boss Hall, presid>g, are of a somewhat eodal
irtainment; as well as lecture id talks by members aod men of Pittsburgh. These meetings areheld bl-wty la Mai
; All /s In readiness for tbe 1927 
' Mens Junior From to be held this 
Friday evening; January28,-et the 
-Hotel Subenicy. Nothing has been 
left Uncompleted by the general 
committee and all-ofi ttie'sub-commlltees have reportedtheir work:
. eaUalectorUy ended. Oentral Chair
man Alvin Brown hae. very ably 
directed t^. labors of bis many assistants and ; co-workers and ' tbe Prom Is T^dy. All that can be done t 'aseare the success of the annual' formal ball of  the third year men-lias been attended to, and all that remains -la the full enjoyment of the accomplishments of their committees by-t^e^mbers
- o thij clas^. of ^'B^olr gTLTOta:
Tho&e 'wto have been ..honoredby.being ch'ceenaSs-patrons :and patronesses-, tor the Men'sProm 
. are: President Thomas S. Baker;Dean; and Mrs.. Arthur. W. .Tarbell,- Dean. .Mary j Watson/Green, .Director Mary B. Breed,..IMrector and Hr<v Wllltanv E. Mott, Dlrttlor 
and Mrs. Arthur'S. Jewett, Director and Mre. Roscoe M.-Ihrlg, Professor Giendlnning Keetole, Director and Mra Clifford ;B.V.ConneJly;" Hr.: aud, Mrs.'AJan Bright; Mr anil Mrs. Frank J. Lanaha'n, Judge.and Mrs. Walter P.. Steffen/ '
the chaperones to be present re: Mr. and Mre. Robert B.Lelghcm, Mr. and Mra, ;J. C. Moreheari/'Mr. and Mre. - Clarence Over
end. Mr. and Mrs. Robert N, Waddell. Mr--..aud .Mrs. Lawrence H. Mill*,. Mr. and Mrs. H. K. Klrk' Patrick, Mr. and Mrs. .William R. Work,' Mr. P. Cnrtis Swanson, Dr. William L.-Marks and Mr. ond 
.Mrs; CC. Leeds.,  ..^Por.:ufltev.>U^.flneflt><irehe^tTa available had been obtained for the i'rbftL-1 'All Pittsburghhas vi>een 
talking -for-weekaof the group ot . 'velve men tbotare to.play, at the
  ^en.l^^ Jr^ly ;nighty and .. .tlie' committee le very well satisfied1 With' thelrVgood' fortune in being WritPave ..Harman TSresteT'^OrcheaLra for 'the Junior 
Forrual. Theee popular pavers are unparralled In the, amount of fnvoii'-'they have -won in col* 
legiate circles throughout the ' United States, as well as haring e&rnett ap enviable reputation In metropolitan; stage work.
: The. supper menu that has been prepared'byY thfjstewaxd pf tho Hotel Scheniey In conjunction with the class committee Is one of the moat attractive ever effered at an evening function. Hn this city. All the plans for !the repast have keen with the co-operation
PLANSFORANNUAL 
IND. SMOKER NOW 
NEARLY COMPLETE
Freshmen Invited to Attend 
Popularity Co n t e s t s, 
Stunts Featured
keeping 'with the efforts already taken, by thecononiltlee; to make the IndustriesSmoker, Feb^ r^^,.the..biggOBt;nlcotlne-fest lotagediat - Cttruegie for fifty i,.a facolty-.popularity contest has been added to the evening's res. Piles will be awarded 
o handsomest,, laziest, "wind; 
and most''b^shfui' ot the in-- ore In industries.- These prizes, are supposedly suggestive if the tyuailtles ot tbe winners, - -- 
An .In formerf.yeare, nominations ind tho election of the senior who, 
la most representative. of the.^Col'This custom'bas'been '!
;ge of Industries will bo held': This custom' - has. been * observed* during tbe last tire' yeaii^'tlie' lemoof the winner -beinif Inscribed ini a special'cup kept Industries 
nd, o, pose .In tlie Thistle' devoted 
olely to-tliis featurt'! 'rAs announced 'last week, "the ;an* lual reunion of.tie'. ' Industrie^ lumnl will occur on the evening of the smoker. Cards'of invitation '. been 'sent-out to: all the inl of the last ten years:^ The' . onse to tbet>e' cards -loB'ures itheiireBeti^e -.af..abou>&f hundred
! the I of ti Schenle:
Ins.
i that sinoThe committtee in < curing the favors re poi receiving the momentdes from the 
manufriciur-eiy'theyf oven  exceed the early claims made for them.
they ore being secreted until Friday, night, and fewer, still hav< been permitted to view tbe cholct gifts. Ouly those In attendance it the' prom will be privileged to fully enjoy the novelties, .-as theyare distinctly new.
Whitehead Chib to Hold 
Meeting Tuesday, Feb. 1
The Whitehead Club will meet 
on Tuesday, February 1, at 6:00 
p, m. at tlie Church of the 'AsceaUon.' ' Supper will be served at 
this, cline. During the ^iee^ng, a 
report of the Milwaukee. Confer
ence will be mad?. There will bfe 
no speaker but Informal, dl 
slon groups will take place ai 
the members. ;Purther plans :fpr 
Jack Harts meei lug on Febi 13 will be discussed and coii will 1inted.<Ja*k Hart, student pastor, e  University oif ^Pennsylvania, Jq a * well-known speaker In student des. For & number of years,lie 'has b^en one of .the.-.leaders at the Y. 
'M.C A'.'Conlorence al Sliver BaV and attended yarious'otQd^t -conference throughout ihls' ^rt. ofthe countn*. Last summer,, he .waa one of, the leaders dt the Joiht;Y. M. C. A. .and Y. W. C. A. Confer*
Jack Hart,- who .16 a memberof 
t^e Kappa. Sigma Fraternity, the ' Friar'ff. Senior Society, and -'the Whltehcad Ciirti, the peitAi Sl^mt 
' lUto Debating, laa graduate of'ihe, TTnh'erBity:of: Eonns^lranta-of'.the 
ci'ass' of Mr. IDut is very popular o: .Pennsylvania-Campus, and .two ypars ago/ when tbe Unlvereity:. ofPennsylvania.. fooLball - team went 
, tc* tba.Paclfl Cc^at; to ^>Uy a pofe^ ' season' oame.J'Jack Hart wap s*;
iected a.s':.^iapbin: te; actomi'any
I the Hli Hou. Moi
Special: Economics 
Course Offered At M.M.
Margaret Morrleon Carnegie College offers during the late winter larly. spring ot the. year 1927,
) have sufficient lelsluterested ln lntellient of the problems
Tbe onJy requiremen slon into these courses 
Applicant be eighteen s
Carnegie Tech;
a week, either in or in the afternoon; t be'regulated to l
REGISTRATION 
TES.ANDWED 
OF NEXT WEEK
Former Head Household Ec. Dept. 
Maks Interesting Food Survey
Day Students Requested to 
Report Morning Feb. 1 For 
Arrangement of Schedulesfield c Indiana s
INSTITUTE FEE $100
Expect Enrollment of Ninety 
New Students, Increase 
Over Last Tear.
Registration for the mid-term will be held on Tuesday and Wednesday. February 1 and 2, 9:u0 s. m. to 11:30 o.'m. and 1:00 p.' ni. to, 4:00 p. m. In Laogley LabThe following; Information will 
glvo the location, of th vaxioua registering offices:
All day students should rport as Indicated bolow, early in the 
morning of February 1 for the arrangement of the second semester schedule.. College of Engineering and' Induairlotiv Freshmen, :Office of tbe dean, of freshmen. Others Office of head of deportnientl College, of Flbe Arte^Qfflco ,of head-Of deparUnent -MacgiretiMiorrieon Carnegfe Colege: 'Freaihman, 
room 101. OthersOffice of-headof department After the schedules. ha^e been prepared . In' quadruplicate, they must be taken to .the ottlce of the director for approval;. Students who have been In attendance during the first semebtier 
are-required to.make the second' payment of' the' Institute feo (530.00, toitlon.'snd v |sW.,<Htndnt actlvitlps fee). Students expect
ing to'sraduate In' 1927 are re*' tjnlrod to payth' diploma' fee of SB.00.: ( Graduate students pay q diploma fee ot 10.00).Before second semester classes bgU:, jabpratory deposits .muBt be " (Continued oh Page Four.)
Miss Laura A. Cauble,' who wbs . ou3 tline head ot th depejtent of bousehold.arts at Carnegie, Mb, is now directorot.tbe Sthool political Education in NeW 
York, in' a recent'artlde in the >rk Evening: Post Mtes Cauble is spoken of as "one of th orlds recopnizert experts In tbe conomics.^ Bom {In 
lugbt. up on a farm ae ' plentiful. Miss Caubl-} early learned to dlstin-' gulsh' between food values, in the attended
Columbia * University, where s^ie specialized In nutrition and^pub^c
instructor In tha Household Economic depurtrent of Marc&ret MoiTlson. J.;. There were girls .from evry ;alk ot life in th lasses therei': Miss Caubl Is quoted as saying. And in dealing with them >vl let .......................
INTER-FRATERNITY 
FORMAL TO COST 
ONLY 5 DOLLARS
Price Originally Announced 
To Include Admission * 
Banquet, Favors
O.NAYLOR BOOKED
Thistle Sale in 
Registration Line
Final^Two'Dayr Campaign 
Offers Opportunity For 
LateSubscribere,
SALE -TO CLOSESOOH.
Students should take advantage of the next. Thistle drive during Registration Week tu onier their ThlRtles. During the two-day drive which Is to be made in an attempt 
to' complete the canvassing for subscriptions to the Thistle, a group of salesmen will be stationed In tbo lobby, of Laugley ^ab for
Contrary to a popular mfsebntsptlon.. entirely unfounded 8; faris ihe Inler-Fiaiteinilty . Formal ommlttee is .concerned, there )will ie no additional levy: for, the banuot, whlch.ls to be a feature ofihls iflfalr tble year. , Tickets ;are-.:flve dollars, which Includes the odsils:o tlie dan^e; the banquet' and
ver Naylor and.hJs -Aroadlanp 
have been selected to play for tbe which .will be ' held>;vat' Scbouley Hotel ballroom. on . S'rlday evening, February lfl. Stable preparations have; been m/id'e ihe decorations and the' favors, 
promise to be no lees novel:, -i - This^lhtir-rralerDity^ForDii^Vifc 
n ,annual affair to which irnliy men, pledges, and "Wandering QroeksV. are, eligible , to.
Tickets, which are now on sale, aybe., securedat-^any-fraternity 
iuae or front the commltree. Bob Shrove, George Petticord,. Earl Bobel and SUnley Abbot are in: charge of this affair.
Thers
lubscribi
no question but tbat t on the campus should
ermitted to do so. In food da: 
le feo includes all supplies; caving, articles made by thf* ent may be' ictalaed :t paid fo se cost ot the matBrieli; In ! 
ig and milliuery, students are
c of January. 31.
(julred with the order, and the remaining $2.00 ie due upon the delivery of the'book!A (treat deal of the material for the ThlsUe Is now In. the hands of. thfr printers'- and' 'the -remainder will be prepared as soon as pcasible in order that ihe work . may continue without interruption.. During the past week the last ot the photography was finished and it is' now being prepared by the engravers fbr the publishers. , All uiiaterial for the. spedaY sections 'is alsoiompletolyarrangid.is theof CaiActiviegle Stuc inch.lould; tb all student
iff of the Thistle will be. held >nday. January 31, at 1:30 in i puhlIcatiorL'6 office. Air F
i business staff, should be
Plebes Banquet At Saunders Inn 
Quite Unmolested By Sophomores
Yea,'. ihe frcshmaii hava had. their . banquet ; Climaxing .several dn^SL .of -subdued - .whispering, and
ry 19,: -1B7.
fresbThen'Saunders' Inn^rCeaj Aspinwall,. ' fbr their"' \itradit lonal  plebe -banquet The .clasa of 30, have, shown' tiicmselvea to be with;' out feoT. wasUng a whole evening with'.''exams lurkiug in'the. offing.-
waaL'.Fahenstpckr:^ of.
the. engineering sophcmores. :. He was enticed -into.coming' by the aid' of 'A ;vwdman's . Totems aiVC.' several 
husky ' plebes, end seemed en-; Joy (-the'' 'evenWg--'- Immenaeiy, - el:i thoi^h-'he 'waa kepC thore agalnet' hir.w'iii,Beingspeech -' , lie  :compllmeated: -.the; plebfs-,on:thelrrecord;attendance; 
the way;lii which it was put.acfossi and tho abflincfi of bananas Srom the: meuu./ In fait be was a little; 
too enlhuBiastlc considering; that; 
ti' had: been' brtrughtstb the. ba^quet ln , handcJaffe.. Mrl . Lawier,
ter of the evening. Mr. L. gave an enthu6laatic talk oi way .the banquet,was condi and the excellent eutertalnipont fuitnlshed., ..Presidents of . both th< Arts and Engineering industries 
freehmen. were called upon speeches. A. three-couree banquet wai served-and-all present satisfied. Several of . Ihe moi genlous plebes-wcre able by Vif hand-, perforaiaihree ,ty - satisfy' their enormous.appetites. The en.trtainment for the evening was. 
fiirnirthed by a duncer, who by >6r .erotic ^moTpmenta,: vas .^able-: to make all "the onlooking plcbes for.'get about; ihe coming malh exams..Evory plebe present was-expecting: a. fight,. in' tact several 'had drawn lots to see who 'wouldhit 
a'.certalu', sophomore'. However they were doomed .to d(6ai>Polntment, some demanded .thelr money. back while others relieyed thelr (OonUnoedob'Pafe.Four.)
a and became a fellow in 
>*. . When women were; were given the right to  wua in. tbe .fofegroand-'of rement'. aod was' given lhe post C First Deputy Commissioner Public Markets. Several years br she-conducted a three years health educational program' with regard to the nutrition of New York's millions of scuool children in co-operation with, the Departments of Health and Education.Mist Crtullf is thoroughly acquelute-1 with the health ntatlon in New York in relationNto pn>per. 
rood. Site recently made a food survey of New York, concentra ling her study to an area of twonty blocks square, for the bureau of food supply of tbe Association for Improving tbe' Condition of the Poor.
 Mtrevealedsome unusual thinqs." she saye. among them tlie. fact that there Is In some cases as much Ignorance in the .shops as in the homes with regard to the proper food. But education is taking care of. that"
However, Miss Caublo belleveB that ''education'should not-be conlined merely to shopkeepers and housewives. She relates-the story of a flve-yeaiyold child who was accustomed toshop for the family Tbe child
the drudgery long.enough attend to this shopping, entrusted it t the child. Therein lies'tbo hope of the-Cuture generntlon. If children are. pormltted by tired and harassed mothers to do the family shopping, the thing to do is to eriucate Uie children in the public schools,-teach.them the proper food vales and .the hygienic and nutritive problems of whole families will disappear. V
On the whole Miss Cauble. be: Uevee:;Nw' York has good foods. 
Refrigeration, -Improvements   in transportation, etc., have done much to. raise the standard of food stuffs available on. themarket:- ' "It Is simply , a question ot education,1 Mise. Cauble eayB. both 
(Continued on rase Four.)
BUT TEN DAYS 
REMAIN UNTIL 
RUSSIAN BALL
Preparations Are Nearly 
Completed as Time For An-, 
nual AriS Festival Nears
D. GREGORY TO PLAY
Show, Sapper, Decorations and 
Designs, CostumesAll 
plans Complete.
> Revel of the Russians! At .bo eventful night Is drawing Costumes are designed.
been obtained; the mu6lc has been ritten; he designs ond docom>ns have been coiupleled,' abd instroctlon is' under way. ' Tbe show is laklag shape and the suphaa beea plsnned! Tho night of <\U' tho nights for Art Students ir at bond.
EXECUTIVES TO DINE
AT CARNEGIE INN !' 
Pi Delta Epsilon Call 
Extended to Six Men
abandoned of all AtIs balls. If the general interest being any indication. It seems Incredibie. but. Arts., ball thoughts pre-empted' even those 6f ex* 
umlnntlons.' :A .most<brllllaiit and fascinating display of'colors>IU bo brougQit into use through the or tbe dominant 'Russian motif. Costumes will range from memouasollnedelaine to' modmlfesUttions ot - mutihqu9 tea. Which (s saying quite But truly, those who have aevif&l Arte* itaUe say'ibat > will be the moBt colorful and .live.of all the. balls. 'glimpse of the; designs to be used leads one to suspect that 
beautiful .and captivating color known is blended to form the tala for the intricate Russian
Th orchestra this.year will be tuatfii , ln ;lho same place that aa' uaed several years' ago. It wlli bo on a platfbrm built over: the iteps at the junction at the foyer ind the mala' hall. This location has been proved iby trlol' io be the 
ruod on Pago.Two)''
Will Bring'Noted Author, 
v-Journalaijor-'Gntic-to^ 
Campus in Spnng
FIRST CALL OI^ * YEAR
To Plan Changes In Night 
School and Inspeot 
the Campus.
Executive representatives of 
Pittsburgh firms having large mbers of their employes enrolled as night students at Car.egltthis year have been Invited by President Baker to attend a dinier meeting and Inspection of the chool -tomorrow night.
nlty, PI' Della' Ep'eilon, issued semi-annual coll to - six men, rep
resenting the Tartan, Thistle, Pujv pet, and Trl-Publicatlon Socicty, on last-Wednesday, January lik
ollowlng .men were clectEd Ross, advertising manager f the Puppet find, a member of he Phi Kappa fraternity; Ben
Following dlnm
theetituLibn willus of making the Carnegie night courses more serviceable to loth-eniployers and employes. Full pporfinlty is to. be given to. the imployera, to suggest plans likely o oxteud the educational service if 'Utg evening daese6.Among firms invited to send repeseu^tives are. the Aluminum Company of Amerl(n; American 
Bridge Company, American Sheet Tlo PlatiCompany, Baltimore
GIRLS GLEE CLUB GIVES 
C0KCERT AT HOSPITAL
The girls met at the Collego or Fine Arts where cars sent by the Hospital called for them. .In spite 
of Lhe cold, the triVwos very enjoyable. .' -The program contained two .solos, oiie by Luclle Haugh and the . other - toy .Eyaline Hold. To makg ' It' more enjoyable' sev-mptulumbeiFol.mar played some - Jazz - and Mary -Farbaugh gave readings which the ;men> enjoyed fully as .much as the. songs; Later in :tbe evening Maryagain came to the tore and gave an exhibition of., .the , Charleston which was applauded to the .last -echo.
.The music: was transmitted from the: stage, to..lhe -wards .-for.,- the 
beuefit: of; thevimen who";were un* able; to come tothe auditorium. When ;told to,. move up .cloaer to the"mike'* Al Johnson,-;.: (he director, went too far. and fell over the' foot' lights'.- midst great applause. The program - was closed by singing DearOld Tech'* and the Alma Mater.-..'After., (the. program, the. girls 
' (Continued on Three.)
rculatioie Tartan; Milt. Cohen, Junl litor of the Tarlan. Circulation 
anager of the Thlstik, and a lemhcr ot Beta Sigma Rho; Wll am Kunkel, advertising' manager ot tbe Thistle and a member of Delta Upallon; WlUiara Scbelck, hAnge editor ot tha Puppet and member of Alpha Sigma Phi; and Mark Seibert, business m.%naer of The Tri-Publication Society nd a member of Sigma Phi Epi
PI DcKa Epsilon makes two cil
the iCampus Week.
There are nearly 40 chapter* the , Pi Delia Epeilonin. varj colleges throughout the' coud There were t>5 delegates prei a conyontion held in Berkeley m September 8 to 11. The Call (Continued on Page Two)
TARTAN OFFERS A FINAL 
OPPORTUNITY FOR PLEBES
of the The
r call for reporters, especially bes. With exams well out < way, ambitious swspapc i and .women have an ex'cellei oHunity , to start their newi with th begindin
: of. tcidedly. interesting as those who lmye already come out for the Tartan will testify. Scouting about ttie campus for news has its attractive features, for. anyone with 
curiosity. In hls.-makeup.^ are, undoubtedly-quite a few piebes at Carnegie'who would find 
work mucb-'tb their liking,' and who have not yetput in ai pearance at the. Tartau <-And this' Is their, opportunity.- , A; number, of . reporters 
fom'i oMt -since . the . beginning of <he year, b'ut not all of thetn hi kept, up tho worlt as faithfully vrould be Jdiosired,. and-.tbe Tartan stillneedo, mcn^and. wc whom the .staff of .the years will -tie-, chosen. - '\/For:,those who .make the slaff,. 
the, advantages; and opportnnitlea are. qulte .a'ttractive. .Then 
wnVs the .chance, of-maldng the! honorarioB, ,by-. virtue of good wsork on the. pubilcaMoB.V And for the;. higher ./sUlt v posltlt mnneration in the form-of salaries Is a veiy .interesting feature.
SELECT JUDGESF0R 
INTER-COLLEGIATE 
GLEE CLUB CONTEST
Will arhart is Chairman 
of Committe Judging 
Competition
Febri 4 win i
WOMEN'S PROM BRIDGE 
DOT 1SFT FOR PEfit 5
Nbvl Priees 'Offered Playere 
Tlokets On Bale Now.
. Februaiy 6, the Womens 
-Junior Prom commlUtee \vill hold bridge tn the Recreation Hall of e Margaret Morrison College. The bridge willbe held to help >t c tbe Prom expenses. The mon-fl Junior Prom of this year xpected to be one of the most
Christine Groves, chairman b \yays und means committee, is charge of the Prom bridge. Miss >ves Is planningto make the bridge an-event that no one will to miss. The Junior women have invited the Comogie men to the bridge, hoping that they will id and make the event the sueit should be.e committee In charge of the 
affair ha>x chosen,a large number >f unu'sAl prizes. ' They will1 he ;ivn to the most successful play ira. It is hoppd that there will bo 
i largo number of competitors/ Another feature of the. bridge v'lll oe tho sale of candy. Do you like candy? Your favorite sweet* IU t* oir.sale at the Proin, bridge rr.'Elbmaiy"5.Tick*ita: fibr " Lhe bridge moy be 
archas^d from members of the ays-and means' committee at the price of 75 cents. A pleasant and ntertining afternoon le promised o the men and women of Cafnegle vho attend the Women's Junior *rom bridge In the Margaret Morinou Recreation Hall.Tlie pmilntinary fee for the *rour muBt be in by the begimilng >f the new semester. Tlckela for 
.bose attending the Jnior. Prom v^ll be on jOK. begluning. the first
MEETING OF PI DELTAEPSILON NEXT .SUNDAY .  MORNINGAT 10:SC
Ne^t Sunday morning at the Alpha Tau. Omega .house on Neville street, there will bo held meotbg ot PI Delta; Epsilon:' at 
n-thlrty.-o. m.Important business -matters ' are -1)9 discussed in conneclion with the Initiation of new pledges, and the several projects of the organizatlpn, booked, tor. the early spring.le imperative tljst.eucti'mem
ber be at this msct'ng.
ODAuT oHmmEX
LAUNCHES NEW 
IDEA AT INST.
Two Hundred and SeventyFive Plumbers Attend 3rd 
Annual Plumbing Institute
INTEREST GROWING
Three, judges have been selected ir oKlclate in. the . inter-collegiate Gleb Club Contost In which .the Carnegie Glee Club has been entered. Thoy. are as follows;^.. 
Will K&rhart, 'chairman; iiurl McMitrtrie, and Earnest .Lunt This contest is to be held In the Carnegie Muelc Hall. Pittsburgh, i tbo.'evening of February' 18.
. Will .Earhart,' who.has; been ap; polbted' chairinan' ot the'jddgefl," Ifl tho hea'd of the music department tiltile rPittsbuish schoels. Burt
is the director of the MendelfHOhu oholr, Pittsburgh. Thoy ill known Ip the musical atmosphere,  and it cn be clonrly that tho beBt Qleo Club .will takn the honors, as well acuoaru ip to New. York Olty. Tho r, as iyls-statod,'. .*111. be' 
o New York City, by the lntcrcollegiate -Muslcal Corporation compete ,la tho .Natlonal Con
test _ ^
The Giee ;. ciubs : of . Carnegie TechV B'uckneli Coliego, Juniata, PennState College, and ' the TJnlverslty ot pittabvrgh wlll compete In thiB ;.conteBl;.- ' The . Caraeele Glee Club which hue progressed 
Exceptionally-; well under the leadership of Harvey Gaul,the music' 
leader : of .nttsbrgh ill V'undonbtedly-'make an ^eicelleat showIng. Carnesle may well expect lts Glee Club to carry off the honors so'chbrlRhed by idl Glee Clubs.
. . VE-acti .Club : villi : be ^presented; :6yp30"men -as w^ll-ae'thelr 'tcadtir; who will direct'them, in tlie'sing
ing., of.thrcoiselecUons.-  v ; V Th> selections will be as follows: One ofi tboir cboloe, the.VPri*e song, and last, a Coll< 
(Continued on Pose Three.)
Dr. Baker and Mr. Payne 
To Attend Conference
Tb-i second International .Drama Conference, which is being held at Ynle University, New Haven,, beginning Saturday, February '11; wiii hold Its flTBt. session at, the 
Havkness Theater wllli Dr. Baker, nnd Mr. Payne representing Carnegie. Dr. Baker will address the eotifere'dce at thin time reviewing tbe wortc accomplished during U^e past yeav nnd-'also.;out1lne more of the plans frr''the future confer enco.  A Round; Table . dtscu9eton will be played, and Dr. Baker will preside at ono of these. Mr'. Payns oC the Drama De nient will discuss-the relation tween the amateur theater:an dal or professional' theate America1. cOther speakers at the confei will be Dean Woek.of the-Ar partment, Ynle' University, and'Professor George .Baker, of York. ..A.verycnmmendnblc spirit iij being shown by tbe .Uulvereitles and Little Theater. Groups rrom an over, the courtly, wlio will be rep reacted at the conferonce. Thlc years event will promote the Ini portance of these annual confer ^nces on Drama, and servo furthei to bring together the various dls soblated groups; of college dra matisls and producers.
The program. In detail, winch' is being sent out by Professor Georgeker this week) will be nnnounc>d in the rt ISSIK
New Mask of Pavlowa, Premiere 
Danseuse, Presented to Institute
Another art treasure has been added to the already interesting collection of our neighbor, the ,Carnegie Institute.  The ; latest addition. is, a m&sk In wax' of'-theHussion., dancer, .Anna Pavlow, by Malvina Hoffman. -The mask .was presented by Mra.,' William Reed Thompson,of Pittsburgh: ,'Mu making! this gift to the Institute, said . 'Mr.-.'.bsintrGaudens. "Mrs.. Thompson has in .mind calling' attention,..especiallyof - the young people^tb, the splendid work that is. belng done, in Ameiican sculpturexby . such ^bmen ;as.'.Malvina1 Hoff nun,VAnn - YAughan .,liyiatt, Harrietr Frlatuti, Mr, . Harry 
Payne, ^hltny, and. Besste Potter 
^yojxnob.  . Th! mack which shows. Pavlowa in fancy., headdress,.was awarded honorable mention in 1925 at . tho Concord Art Association. Anotherstudy!' insculpture of Pavlowa done, by Malvina Hoftman took a Grand! i9ikloa first prize.'Malvina . Hoffman studied paint
ing with  John Alexander and; sculpture with Gutzon Bprglum in New York and Rodin -inhas received many Impnantwards. this ifor . heriulpture : including 
mention at the San Francis position in 1916; the'/Shaw Memorial .Prize at sthe National Academy 9f Design in 1917; ... tie.. .Wii'
the; Barnett Prize at the Nations Academy In, 1921. . She is represented,:1n the 'Pei m&nent ' CollecUoM'^pf.i the Metros, polltan' Museutn: t^.^Xcademx :of.
will be .Timnent\c)chlbuibn ^Carnegie Institute. rIt l9- the ond. orlginal work of thJo soulpt ' In Pitteburgh,- the other being th tnirble buat of Henry. Clay Frick 
which la on.the first floor, of.the FVicfc Building. 1
mmittoe For. Investigation 
To Determine Problems 
Needing Reform.
oW:
A. doflnlto plan to Institute a prot ot research In, plumbing, heat. Ing and -vontliating was proposed by ; Proiessor <S3jnuoi E. Dibble . Wednesday afieinoon before, the. BaBloi)s. of, the tblrd. 
Lhree-dayrinBUtuto'fw 'tho:;' Pliinibliig,.Heating and Ventilntln: : Indutriea at Carnegie: InstUuto^oC 
Technology.
The proposal, which was hearS 
hy febout 27G master plumbers and itruttore.rwnunendedthe-'eB-. 
tabilehinent ot a researoh commit-'.of.national scope/ This com-' mltteo, Professor Dibble suggested Evould flrat determine from conractorsi . and  sanitary engineers what problems, nesded .lmmodiato 
Investigation/  program; for -refj. search fonuoil from suchva prullm, Innry survey would' probably conIdely spread topi.'^ reqoir-- 
ing more thRn one' laboratory to conduct tbe work.Much of tho. research work,, tho-. 
I'arnegls profcEeor b6lieves;^ouI be conducted ' in laboratories, alj-.'-' ready est(vbl|6hed( and top:.mora.' Ive results, he prbpbebd that  ol - colleges should ,be jnvlid :'). -opotato and'tov.tako paft/la;. the pro^ntm of IhveStigiions; AC7 .1 ttle propoRal vJlil be .tnkeiL nenr future. , ... research . program startod. . now. . would secure the Improvement.of the plumb|ng. Indusy.-for : future,1 Professor Dibble decl'iired"It .would have the ten* dency. to rlpon ,our present .day )inb.ir)dg; It . would ' explore -II ; lenown avenues of ' the industryv' id,.would, develop now and perha'pn now unknown Information:  
An Industry .which does sst eoek*. tho oBslstanco of.the moet moderni scientific knowledge,- nnd npply lt^ ; 
gradually loses ground' In^ Its own: development;' TheTdnnual conference closed -1: :JliBrjr EOrThat *itr wkrret^ ,gucr< oosfui in every reBpcct .lB afflriMd: by.. Profeasorv-'- Dibble. ; fdtercatJni - tie'; lectures '.w.ftt'  Jwbltv'it: throughout the three days. '.Mat
ters ot vital Interest to the Indos^ taken up; manyr-of the1 sessions were closed wltb-dlacus~ 
slons which being waged upon Uht.topics loft unflnlsbed. Tbeh model bathroom on -, the second'/ floor called forth, a great deal of-*  Interest :from those ..ytfio saw thaexhibits assembled , there.lhe-afternoon of Jathiary 20 wan made to the buroau.of MlnnS 'for tha. purpose of -inspect log ,the 'heating plant ther. Al
nthusiastlc that thetlme of meeting ran far. buyond! tbat allotted on the program. - Thir
ls a matter of interest, to everyone' In the; plumbing Industry-aa contractors everywhere '' are - finding* fault with the present endea an<L sro eager for their correction.  | Two; hundred and  seventy-flvepeople were on.regtetratlon at tble convention. This number Includes
dents, plumbing inspectors, andl health officials from various cities,, and contractors iroin Pennsylvania, and nearby'states.' Thlstptalahows . fin-increase over the .attendance of last -year.'^andyls indicative of : the growing; intereet of the trade In this annual instltule. -
Second Floor of Welcb 
Hall Under Quarantine
Aa a result of the' discovery or ' a case of scarlet fever the entire-1 second floor of Welch dormitory is under quarantine. At:: 4:00 Monday. It WA9 discovered that G' RKermodle, a 'freshnmn-! who has only ben hei'e several w>eke; Dad symptoms of,scarlet - fever. He-, was Immedlaiely taken to themunlcipal hospjtal where it wns> pronounced a mild case.  Within an hour of his removal there worn notices posted requesting the inmates of the second, floor to'remain In the.lr: rooms, and for the men from tho othor halbrnot to visit them; So far there habeen admirable'; cooperation oh tha part of everyone ! concerned, - no difficulty being experienced in-, keeping the mon, In their rooms a \vaB..:;th;,':case,'' In : prevtpus yeareThe.: proppt .handling of the .caser, has gTCatly lessened .the ' danger oC spreading, and! if no1 ew cases ap. peartho quarantine wlll : probablybe jifted :inS 'or: -.10 days. ,:Mean* whilethe sixteen men affected: are . having .their-;'; .enforced' - .im-: priaoiuijicnt. .made1 ' lbs4' (rbsoiaa:. uwu^;'Uie'-: efforts1 of IMissHeln. 
.aod^Wn.V.;.Mli.ler.;'^-'&OT'Hey;:;>;' tfought in and. mais served, twlc1 ; daj ^Several of i mn' ay: ,bwme;;brldge.^ar^ thebiggiei^-majority ' re ' catohing in. in)their.' maih; vTlie ).ocated,ln oiie'. of,; the 
has. been' lnat'ruraental . yention ^ of - contagious 
this being tho. Arst. case t. i

---------------------------------------------------

. Beth ndy .-' and : old indents should note that they can get un> 
tnual fountain pen service by call Ins at th brunch tor < Singer Pen and Gift Shop No SMI Forbes street, Scnemey. .Apanment block, or the Main Store In Ins Arcade.  _
WheaTonFon tbe Badness World
When your school life la over and you faee the business world,' you will appreciate ?h* bank connections that i today. The e*per>-
CATERING 
Prices Reasonable
That our Refreshment 
Entertainment is most de
sirable for Fraternity and 
f all other , Schdol Affairs,' 
experience will convince.
 Small .orders receive the 
same careful attention asthe more ' extravagant
y Tte . Margaret Morrison > : Alunae Association 'will', bold ? 
: a benefit bridge for the en> dowmeut fund ot tho Cam-S? > gie Institute ' ol Technology. v 
.on Saturday afternoon, 2:30 ?* o'clock, February 12, In the ? *' Hotel. Schenley Ball. Room.v The genoral chairman.. Els-* anorilUesroeyer,' .hns clios'eh ?* Grace MunhaU to eerve ae {* 
*:?, chairman of patronesses withRuth Turtle Euente and Nora 4* > .Henderson ooi;tbe:commKlee.'.,51
* " Mildred Spencer, ae choir* .y man of tables, - will be aa-?
* aisled by' Marion McCombs > > Hsrrmsnn and Helen Reitz. >* Mary Bechtel bne chosen *>
* Rachel Beatty and Grace* flersiiberger to serve on her >
* committee, the candy. *'* The publicity Is In charge ?* oC Edna .Smith.' Those lo ? her committee . ore Lorna* Williams.' Marlon Keenoy,*and Harriet Morgan. ( *i*iIrene Qatnn Hernact end ?* Mre. Hamdd will select the *
: prized. ** The distribution of the ?* tickets will be In charge. of* Mrs. Charles Bowser, Fran*> <?ea Wing Graham, and Helen *
* The committees Join in *
ashing you to help them moke * this bridge a success.
ALUMNI PAGE
tHE LADDERJ.D. BEATTY LAUDS 
ALUMNI IN REPORT
Miss Harriet Klamrotli, scenery 
,nd costume designer, ot New York,-recently entertained members of tbe Providence Plantation Club of Providence, R. I., with a, talk, .illustrated . .ly stereoptlcoo 
elldei on; the'' history' of Press' Mise . Klamroth Is a graduate ol the New Vcrk School of Applied 
Design nd of the Drama Departent ot the College of Fine Arts 
. Carnegie Tech.Beginning with the court of enry VIII, Miss Kiamroth traced the development of feshion to tbe 
beginning of the 18th century, whore, she stopped, because said,: after tbo.t fashion becomes ridiculous rather thau charming. Includedin lier Ldlk were descriptions of maauUne as'well ae inine styles, the Influence.of mis priodB of history on dress nnd may of the eccentricities of 
fashion.
Bureau of Recommenda
tions Placed 402 
. Grda in l926 
PLAN MORE BUREAUS
-sport on tbectivlate oi Carnegie TechWhile In 'IttKburgh, Mr. Willard, with Madge Kennedy, Sidney Blackmer 
members of - the cast, lined by the Drama-Dcf.the ...College .of: Fine
Arts i
i this Campui authoi
rell-knowE 
tic tO1er.Journalist ture to .'the student body this spring. M. T. Hollin.sheud, president of'-the'locol .chapter,' is in 
communication -with several men whose names are familiar to the Carnegie. Student. Body and. tbe name ot the lecturer wilt be announced in a eutisequent issue of 
the Tartan. .
Another project, to be spun* sored by .P. D. E. on this Cam]Is a conference ot High School I Editora and business managers ot Publications , of the Tri-State district, Pennsylvania, New York, and 
Ohio. ThU conference -will take (itlaco sometime In the aprli
RAINCOATS FOR MEN AND WORSEN
 Men's, $6.00Color: Grey.
Womens, $6.50Colors: Blue, Lilac, Green ana
...red. 'AulhaBmier and Evaas
6100 PENN AVENUE
durlni [ la.
. IdenMiss Pautioe Potter, wh jr a Umn asslstnut to .!
'ayne and Hubert Osborn, teach rs of dramatic art'at Ciirnegli 'ech, was recently called to Nov York to phty an important bit of character work . In The . Q Friend at the Vanderbilt Tbeal replace Mi99 Condon, who f ly.had that part. Miss Potter 
sesses. n very fine speaking 
o, it la sold, having h< nonted on her splendid diction 
by the critics of the drama both In London and New York. Miss 
Potterhas. also made rocordB for the prominent manufacturers abroad, and for the Victor and .Vocation people in Now York, and has made quite-a'place for herself 
in this particularfield-. .
CLAN NEWS
Arts Aliimnus Writes on 
Arts BaU. Eligibility Rule
If vQiire *ail at sea about 
yoiir tobacco.
Maybe y ou've sailed the seven seas search
ing for perfect pipe pleasure. . . Maybe 
you've tried oceans of tobacco without 
running into one you can anchor to . . . 
but don't giye up the ship. Plenty pipepilots were once in the same boat...
Just shoot an s. o. s. to G. R. C.. . for 
Granger Rough Cut is a life'Saver to pipes 
in distress. Its rich and spicyand mel
lowed by the old Wellman Secret'* its so 
' mild you can stoke-'up md fire away at 
full sail!
Then jot this down in the old log: 
Grangers' rough cut flakes smoke as cool 
as a. zippy sea Sephyt... Man,' your old 
smokestackll puff wreath after breath 
of perfect pipe pleasure.
And dont wait till your ship comes in 
to take bn a cargo of Granger. The pocket*' 
package is not high-priced.. . for packed 
in foil (instead of costly tins) this quality 
tobacco sells at just ten cents. Load up 
to-day.. . and boh voyage!
GRANGER
tHELA DER
- The half-pound vac-... uum ein u forty-five .. cffid. the foil-pouch pidagt, tealed u>. gUutne u ten cent.
:io has been. lu my mh 
great Injustice, perpetrated in
in wlitrtrhe Arts Bali: It la, the ruUag.which requires an alum-, sto belong to the 'Rlumnl aaeoHon before he or >&o "'l9' permitted to attend the lArts Ball. Now by what strain of logical 
thlnWug; Is the .Rlunmt -naBlcl^tloii ' cled .with tlie Arts T iow;nre their functions li d? ^Vhjshould not an Arts graduate be required-to belong to iho Klu Klux.Klan, the Repub)l in party, the Tumv.erein SVi^Iety,board of dire Philadelphia insurance being permitted
recent
ties of tbe Bureau of Kecommendatlon-j, John D. Beatty, head ot the 
Bureau, ave a great ideal ot praise 
to the Alumni In,.tlitrr/Part..of 
roaklug the Buroau a success.Tbe Bureau placed 402 men and women in 1926 with salaries t> 
tailing nearly $730,000 yearly. Civil and ' mechanical engineering 
head the list of these placem nnd teaching follows closely bind. Mr. ' Beatty Jn his report 
pointed out that all the requests for men in metallurgical, and mechanical englneerli not be met. Very many or these 
tufUlcd every year.>manil iot gradual College of Industries continues, 402, 26 positions rte Managemont 
field, and 18 In Building ConstrucSome of the automobile con* have already Indicated that -they  are .wUling.to. employthe actuates of the new Automotive
Th alumni have cooperated to tho fullest extent \ylth.tbe Bureau In placing graduates, end'Jn -send* 
ing in. leads which have led to placing others ' in some' of the cities 
there is a . large enough group of alumni, steps. nre being :o establish branch employbureaus to aaylst the work of the Bureaii.Thebureau,- not only places graduates who ore out of work, but also assists those already employed, in-finding better-positions.' .lf this * purpose, the Bureau la keeping the experience records 4,600 graduates, so thatwhen i request comes for a graduate ' perlonced In a certain line, he may be immediately placed.To further the Bureaus wor r. Beatty has had printed 'sui mariea oC bis report, which ha' beon . Bent, to . plt.-.the.-ihdii^trinl. leaders of tti Pittsburgh dlstiii and many outside thin district, lllng their attention to ihe buau's work, and the .possibilities frndlng the right juain for'a 
rough t){e Bureau. By thus _ lalntt'ng employers \>-it'h. these 
cts. It is thought that i*'elcction of positions may be of
fered graduates, and any who ar< lilt of employment may lmniedl itely .be placed.. 'Boatty.rvnuesta thal the alunui ontlaile in their assistance, ant aska that they report,f In_ addUjoi 
tlio.'iiainea of any Alumni whoa they know are out of employment that he may be able to asels 
them.
West Alexandrine avenue, on JanAbout 46,were present toe d inner-and ft number -came - Inafterwards for* the .pictures. .Quite a number ot men brought their wives. Those present:Clete L. Boyle, Ja:C. GT*ene, H. H. Biudtek, W. Ray Williams, RM. Feleteln. Harry T. Ward, Charles (Buck) Jameu, Alvah W. Bryant, Wayne W. Wilson, Louis L. Newman, Paul J. Swabflcjk, .i^arie.S. Hpdd9,.3.-EL .Kaiableb, W."HL Nesblt, 3. L. PotteWalter' B. iiickenbacher, J. L. Wilson, Lauren E. Hawkins, Harold D. Macklin and Mre. Macklln, Mr. and Mrs. Nelson Thompson, 
Mr.'and Mrs. J. R. Reed. Mr. and Mrs; J. E. Waite.'
CLEVELAND
One. Hundred. Twelve Pic
tures in Exhibition of
OPENED LAST WEEK
 17,
ondertul meeting Janu University Cliib, about resent and among them wen sixteen high school studenti Cleveland and Painesville.
Exhibit Paintings of 
Woman at Institute
The la^eet exhibition ot paintiugu by a woman ,ever presented 
at the Carnegie. Institute opei 
on Momlay, January 17. with a re-' 
ceptlon. Ths-artl&twho was sl 
henorori Is Johanna K. W. Hall
man, of Pittsburgh. . .
There ore 112 pictures In tbe ex
hibition, occupying iour ot the gal
leries on the second door ot the Department of, Fine Arts. Elghtyoiie nre oil paintings and 31 watel 
colors.Niue portraits ol Pittsburghers
CHICAGO
Ian meeting held Janl Engineer's Club of :h a total attendunce 
vo. Fine meeting.  present w.ere: MarM. Lundy, W. F. McCaugbey. Jr.t R. Crawirtr G UFirst, yitor.JI,. Stromaulst.iRUWCook.
Eric Berglund, E. P. Couse, Jr.. B. C. Gross, C. H. -Wallaco, J. J. HarHoward G. Wittmer, John F. on, Edwin C. Frazler.
ot
ticed in tne iWliy should not an ir spending four years
ent who. has attended night chool for four monttu ay,: at the already 'additional osl of 64 cents per passLet us suppose on alui___ ...ils ahunnus-viie. living In Younfesown (God forbid) decide lie bull. Passes, nine lollars
costumeai modestly /enty-five dollars.they are. beginning win not go. Then they iSoniera.Rpcli
CHICAGO .
RAINACO 
TASFCME D WscEe 
n iohyACMember Federal 
 Reserve System
"Tbe Oakland Bank 
Capital - - --$300,000.00 
Surplus,- - - $1500,000.00 
Deposits Over $5,000,000.00
too neat.-was'one of-tbe first wmin?3 given in thenew course for prospective brides which Is being 
offered this year at Boston UnlverMayflower 7218 
MEN'S WEAR
FLOYD M. JACOBS
3606/2~FORBES STREET 
Oakland Pittsburgh, Pa.
Around the Corner from 
Forbes'Fleld"
The following .letter w cclvcd ot the Alumni office:v Oak Park, IlllDois,January 20, 1927. 
iss Ttuth Andrews,Carnegie Alumni Bureau.
Carnegie Institute or Technology ' Pittsburgh, Pa. peur Miss,.Andrew^:-.. . _ . .on Wednetufiy night, Janun.ry 19, the Chicago Clan held a very enjoyable dinner and meeting] at the Chicago KnglneerS Club, at which we had a very encouraging
r the; Mr.
SCHENLEY
'A program of splendid motion pictures supplemented by high das -stage entertainment is -to be offered in the Scneniey Theater, Fori. stioet. Oakland district, throughout this week. - Geueral Manager Htrry Davis booked "S'pangl-is, an amazing comedy .drama'of life behind the scenes of the circus for Monday and Tuesday January .24 and 25. Pat O'Mally and Marian Nixon are featured. Wednesday and Thursday, January 26 ail 27, will bring
r. and Mrs. 'Weinborgur and Mr.-Clarence Overend, Wo -had 26 people fordinner and a number of peoplo come in later for' the -meeting..The comments of Judge Stelfen on (he Past and Future Football 
situation.i were-; greatly  - enloyed and the motion picture and talk by Mr. Overend conceriilug the school affairs. were very Interest
ing' and brought back fond recolYours very sincerely.H. B. KLEPPEL, 
Secretary Carnegie Clan ot Chicago.
Hughes, but she must be.m: witiln two days or else she loses the . six mlltlou dollars left t by her uncle. .^Selected con
t Tobacco Cotnphi
Pittsburgh hotel bill, and .then the straw that 
breaks the camel's back, they must reinstated for eight dollars to' an organization they have 
,ie.-tltat<:d to joiu because the a(li many , benefits'A*as clear In their., minds. - T.ben they must debate whether to mort* 
craee .the house and let the children go barefoot, for a season-and go to the ball, shooting the works, or :o say Wot the Hell' and stay home. It they then .dcclde to go, the ycurig husband must allow an* other ten bucks for liquor, since h^ could not have a good tlm
ixcitlng .combination of mirth and suspenae, The Mystery-Civ baaed upon.- the novel by Art ted'liy
enlng with his suh-conecloUH nberly doing mental artthAnd i hen loo. why not ' A >mes but once a . year. Is supposediopleand
On Friday urday, January 28 and 29, the picture attraction will be "The Flamtne Forest, In which Renee Adoree and Antonio Moreno have the leading roles. On the stage throughout , the week are The Carolina Nlght.hawke,' a ' clever po'l-ular orchestra of'.12 men. The Joyous mystery comedy. Fingerprints, packed with laughs and thrills,, will b* the attraction Monday and Tuesday, January 31 and
PLANS FOR ANNUAL
IND. SMOKER NOW
r*aheU vlde*f*
Mrs. Joseph R--alts of Pittsburghbeen painted by 
Mrs. Hallman were assembled in place It would xnake -a gallery romlnent PlUsburghers. Some 
of her sitter?, in addition to thoseln tbe exhibition, are Mrs. Stewart Johnson. Mr*- W. A. Hilllan}, Mre. George, W. Bissell,- Mrs.^Knowlas. Woodw^li;  MrB.^ iSiamudl' ' Harden' Church, Mrs. William. Meroari Mrs. W. 0. Roblnaon, Mrs. Earl Gould', Miss Fannie Lyon and Mre. Charles 
Arbuthnot.. Mrs.- Hallman is one of the best Known woman painters in the United States. She studied under 
her father, Joseph - R. Woodweil, who was a gifted painter and who 
was a trustee of-tho Carnegie to stltute tor twenty-aix ycarg, He ifcd In the permanent it. tbe Institute oytwo 
paintings. Mrs. Hallman has exhibited in practically all the International exhibitions. Her portrait of tho late Judge John D. Shafer will oe-remcmberod^by the 
lultorr to the twenty-flfth li latlonal ^bia^.palnfciWQiiitia*; Allegheny County Bar A.^sodatloi hftiig in the rooms of th< 
n in the - Clty-Count: Building.Two years ago Mrs. Hallman hat i exhibition of her paintings e the Corcoran Gallery, Washington, She -had a'group of palnl i the SesQul-centehnlal a Philadelphia. At the PanamaPacific Exhibition in .1315 .she , awavded 'a silver ^medar.  I Hallmoh is a memhr of the tional Assocldtlon of Woman Pi era andr>ulptdrsW'>'!Following is a complete lisl the paintings and water color: theexhibition: ' Palm Fronds, Bridget of Ballybunnion, 
land  Dunes. The Old Barn, Natures Jalousie. Poinclana Tree, Portalt of. Marcia, . SpringtimeRolling Rock, Portrait . ot. Miss Mary .Louise. Jackeon, . Grants 
Town, Nassau, Pikes Peak, Farm Fields. Bahamian Shore Line, Cocoanat Tree, Portrait .of Dr. Ctrlstophnr.- C. Sfcndels, Penstemon, Bay Shore, Miami. Magnolia, Portrait ol the Hon. John Shafer, The Harbor-Naeeau, The Argoslea, Ophelia of Nassau/Along the River, the Um>rella,. The Living hinnecock Hltls, Peonies, 
Caliaijaa
First Chnrth of Christ, 
ScientistClyde. Street Near F.lfth Avei Suada. ll A. M. and 8 P.-1 . .Wednesday. 8 P. M. Sunday School. 11 A. M.
Cliff Restaurant
327 SOUTH CRAIG STREET 
' '  Vieaf ATry our Special'Lunches40g Special Rates To Stjidenta ,
 Goodyear-.Welt System 
4523 FpftB.es ST.REET 
WE REPA RUBBERS
MOvR CORONAS ARE 
.USED IN COLLEGE 
THAN ANY OTHER MAKE 
OF PORTABLE 
Beforetliedays-of; Corona. t Cbllefle work vras writby Hand. Nowmo'atTBfalleflO
thnB Istypew find Coronas a* liege
rltteiou1! >rk In every' jrld. More ay than' ali of portables:
twelve yard rlbboi bl8 ynaehlne teatur
only $60.00.
COMPANY 
I FIFTH AVENUE 
Atlantic 0742
LEARN TO DANCE
Jacques School of 
DancingCRAIG AND FORBES STS.
.Beginners Monday.and Friday Evenings. Advanced, Thursday . and Saturday Evenings. Private lessons by appointment. Mayflower 7891
BUTLER'S
FOR BETTER GROCERIES 
414 SOUTH CRAIG STREET. - We'Deliver All Orders.J: O. BAKER, Manager s Mayflower 7644
Church of the Ascension
. (Episcopal)
H. BOYO EDWARDS, f
HAVE YOU TRIED OUR PUNCH 0 FOR YOUR OANCE7 . 
..TMe.Coupon .aqd'.:40c'v^ll. ent)tle^QU.t,o609'dlnner.- 
THURSDAV EVENING 4:30'.00 P. M.
TRY OUR 39c^LUNCH 
Special  Paetrleo with Fraternity letters. foroccasions,
ShontUB Tea Rom
971P FORBES STRfelET Phene Sehenley 0318'
4695 FORBS ST. (Near Craig) I
COLLEGIATE
BEAUTY
SHOP
422 SOUTH CRACG STREET 
EXPERT. OPERATORS
(Continued from Page One) 
The department stunts are all readiness. The Works Manageent department has taken therd for the ilevel sThis year, however, the Building. Construe tlon' and Printing departments are confident that they have the necessary talent, and nre out for blood. With rivalry . so intense, 
the stunts are bound to bo most entertaining. Thfn, too, the Plebe
sober. It's not their' nature.
to be so lowered that ntsht lio will, not be offended It ' strange, harmless undergraduate should ask his wife to ice, and ehe accopts. s Surely, 
must have liquor to go through all this: "He might want to become illnh anil address Mlsa Black of 'tlie fac^lty; ae .Ml68-Bi^e,^od 
nlLhavo a Jolly laugh'together.' He never do this ntark sober.. alack and aias, after silmu p his total-expenditures, nnd-finding that they at up tbo better part of a hundred dollars.^ decides not to-go. However, he' has had the pleasure of dreaming' about going, and envies tho forSTRAND THEATER
Rex,, the wild . horse, -will hold the screen . Wednesday and Thursday at S'tanlay.Rowland & Clalrk's Strand In his latest picli DeVll Horse,, a story oflthe great outdoors among the pioneers and tbe Indiana. Friday and Saturday, Tohnny Hines In 'Stepping Along. H sure and see George Wtiltes 
shorus do'the Black'Bottom .the Charleston is passe. Monday and Tuesday "God Gave Ms O' Cents," with' Lois Moran, Jack Mulhall and Lya  De Puttl In one of the best pictures of the year. Selected comelies and'nows ; events with' each 
hangei'of/feature:
which1 made Its Initial 
appcaranco at the Science Stag, will.. .furnish , the music .for the frolic. Incidentally,- Uiere wlli be food and smokes to complt the card-for the evening.Tlcketd-are now on sale, both in Industries and Science. In Science there r.re many Freshmen who are eligible^ to attend the Industries Smoker. They should avail, themselves ot their opportunity to purchase tags from th salesmen sta> lloned there.- The^prlce has been fifty cents'.
jilt1 of'1the Man. 'John' DairelL Wlnrbor-Malne,. Flprldu' .. Flow!<1 Wood:Cclorado, Sponge Cocoanut Grove, Over the Palr:s, Poilralt of Mr. wTlltan Star Apples, A Hunt in Town, Colorado, Mountains of; Jamaica, Flower Arrangement, ilt Cay-Bahama. Islands, Portrait 
bt: the  Hon. 'Robert S'. .Fraaer; TaBeach-Flcrida. Wlilte Cannas, ralt of Fiank C. McGIrr, Eeq., Kettle Hill-Santtago di - Cuba, Pittsburgh Mills, Light HouseYork Harbor, Storm Wind's, My Mother, St. John Rlyer-New Bruni wick, " September Flowers, Oph<
.H'a
j fresiBut to bis (
the xlumnl association In order attend en-affair in no ay
nected with.tt. ';":As':thls.condition ''of . Injustice does not-affect me. this la not an' expression of :sour grapes; but appeal -; tor.  myless fortunate 
frlendi(Signed) ARCH DEPT
( EXECUTIVES .TO; DINE | - AT CARNEGIE INN
(Continued from Page One) 
and Ohio Railroad, Bell Tetephone Company, Blaw-Knox Company, Carnegie Steel Company, Crucible Steel Company of .America^ Hi 
penstall Forge and Knife Co pany, Heyl and Patterson, Jon Laugbllti - Steel Corpora tic the Koppets--Company,-  McCUn'tlctyaTB>wi\l: Co.mpanyv Mesta Machlne Company.'NaUbn'at'Tube' Company,
MANORTHGATER
'God Gave Mo 20 Cents, wltl L^>Is Moran. Jack MUlhall and Lyi De Puttl willhold the screen a Sianlev-Rowland &  ClaYk's Manor Theater Wednesday and'Thursdi One ot/ thetruly fine pictures 'of 
the year, directed b? the man made "Beau Geste. " Friday Leatrlce joy. one of the screen s greatest In her' latest De  Mllte mseterpiece. 'The Clinging Vine.- Saturday, 
James Oliver Curwood's. 'TlaiQlng Forest with--ReneeAdorce. the star of the big parade and Antonio Moreno supporting'her. Monday and Tuesday Ladles a.tPlay:' with
nanv. Plttshurch' and Lake' Eri< Rallrqaa. Pittsburg ' Plate Glasa inv,-Pittsburgh Valve. Foundry and' -Construction Company; Pressed Steel Car Company, Unloi Switch and Signal Company: Wesi 
Inghouse Electric and Manufacturing  Company. Westinghouse Air
(Continued from Page One) 
oest .for all purposoB. . The stand will be'decorated with green: grajs. symbolical ot the Russian steppes, and Durbin Homer.
if-t.i Beach; A:'Na;
WFE Is the Age of Specialization
SO IT IS WITH US 
ft specialize in Renting the Latest St>ieS In 
t-date Quality, Tuxedos for the College Man.
Whittington Drss Suit Co.
DayGrant 2604PHONE-r-NlghtLafayette 4791-R
Village, .Jamaica Landscape.Ray Palms, Lumber Mill-St John 
Ram'naa arid Palms, The Loxahi e. The Rage on pie Bar, Fnu tain. Nlcotlaua and Zlnnlte,' Qjienwood Sprlngs-Cotorado. Port P .lorida Fnilt and . Flo au Harbor, .Tbe Garden Pool, Along the Beach, Flowers AVhitehallV'My Gaxden. The Gc a House, Under the Tre< Village in Nova Scotia, Moonlight, Guayra, ^ "Meiguba, -Fairy. Island-Jamalo, ' The Wake of; tbe Boat, Along ' the Wall, Florldi , A Nassau Garden, Blscayne Bay, Cumberland Hills, Eucharist Lilies. Hauling. In Hie Seines, ColoGarden,' .^Viacayo,- Bathing,' Sen Orapcs. A Windy Day, Cliftonlu. An Ensi Wind, A late bfg rival, Nassau,: Tropic Moonlight, Fishing Boats, -Rfni The Red Tug, Otd' Somlnole' Spring;-..Native Cottage;. Comingr ' Storm,- The ' Morion-1 hela.'^ea Roses, Rolling Surf, Verberins,. Channel Markers, Palms and Tutfquolao Water."Theexhibition will continue 
through February 26th.
STA^LEY-ROWLAND-CLARKS
STRANB
 REX 
th. Wild Horse, In
The Devil Horse
Jhay bines tin 
Stepping Alone-----with------
MARY BRIAN
MoiFebrua
GodGaveMe-aoc
LOIS MORAN JACK MULHALL LYA DEBUTTI
NEW PRICESand 20c
MAN OH
Cd Cave Me XoeLOIS MORAN JACK MULHALL '
Leatrlce Joyto 
4iThe CUflglng Vtate"
RENEE ADOREE ANTONIO MORENO .
Monday.^ryi. Tueeday ,
uLadles At PlayDORIS KENVON . . LLOYD HUGHES
GET STUDENT TICKETS FREE AT TARTAN OFFICE '
Ideut that there are still' :s students who are not coming to the ball because of tack of partners. To obviate this situation. members of the social committee will endeavor to' secure all aececsa^y InttoducUons. -There stags allowed at" the members .of..thie.com'mittefe are PauhSchfell.' chairman; T)aVe "Wilson: Pa'uV lCIng.-'Wllauth Marsden, Ray Jones. Irene Tedrow. Margaret'GaUager. Grace MllUken. 'Arthur -Sldells. Mlna Davls
Scheniey Theater
First Floor and Balcony25c 
Meecaninor-36aHARRY: DAVlS^General^Manager -    i Pittsburgh,
WEDNESDAY AND THURSDAY, JANUARY 26 AND 27. Th Mystery ClubThrills,'Romance) Heart Appeal, Humor, with, - - 
MATT MOORE, EOITH ROBERTS, MILDRED, HARRIS,
FfllOAV AND SATURDAY, JANUARY 2fl AND Renee Adoree and Antonio Moreno
. GARDNER'JAMES, TOM O'BRIEN, CLAIRE McDOWELL,. BERT ROACH jn ' ;. \ .The Flaming Forest
ON THE STAGE ALL WEEKThe Carolin. Nighthawks
. Twelve Talented Performers.with Versetlle Profiram-of Muelo, * Dancing ond. 8lnglng,> featuring .A Qleyerr Exponent of the New'HIt, The BlsekBottom.
MONDAY 'AND'TUESDAY,"'JAfVUA-RY?'31 nubwp FEBRUARY 1 
LOUISE FAZENOA,-HELENE COSTELLO-AHO - JOHN T MURRAY In the' p1cture'6f'Thrnie *nd*.Lai>tha.:'_____Fingerprints
NEWS REELS -Lota-of.:Space to-park Your Car.NOVELTY FILMS

---------------------------------------------------

Charles A. Coffin 
Foundation Fellowships
Announcement was made reccntj> pi 'the conditions under which 
the (Siailes A. CoffinFoundation 
IfeOowBblps will be awarded for 
A academic year, 1927-1928. Tbe 
Foundation established 
Giaenil Electric Company, pnv 
videfl for tbe award of 8
RIFLE mAM LOSESfPLEBE QUINT DEFEAT
NL GYCUIYBF,Cj7ih WASfNE FR
and dollars' annually for fell 
ships Pl graduates of lie univer
sities, colleges,' and ' technical
bave showa, by the character of 
Uialr wortc,' tbat they could, with 
advantage, undertake or continue 
research work In educational InstiI 
tntloas, > either. In this country or 
abroad. Tbe .fields In wblch these 
teUcy?fiWP9*ore awarded' are  Ete-' trielty, Physics, and Physical 
Chemistry.Tbe,Committee) dsires to nuko the awanis to' men who, without 
financial assistance. would' be unable' to derote themselves to re
search work. ' The fellowships vrili carry a minimum' allowance of five hundr*d dollars. This allowance may be increased to meet special needsof applicants. tc whom - tbe Committee decides tc 
awav'd tlie -Fellowships.Candidates should file applica
tions on forms provided for this purpose. Applications -*111 be comsd from seniors desiring, to do work as a part ot tbe requiretaei for *>n advanced degree-as well from graduates, but any award ft s-'ntor will be conditioned upon bis ' ip-aduatioEL All appllcatli sottfd first bo sent' to theiteiin ot ihe educational institution which the applicant attends or baB attended. Tbe Dean will. In turn, Die... all -implications recolved by 
biro Ont tlie sanufotlme, together.
Loss ts Fust of Season 
Defeat Gettysburg.
.And Lehigh
Tbe Carnegie varsity rifle team continued Its splendid showing 
thisyeurby. defeating four teams, .-and losings to only  a small margin.
. During. the week of January 16 'CPxncgi^'defieatettGettyBbttt 'College, and Lehigh University, but lost to tbe strong team of Johna Hopkins University. Tbe team 
offered Its first defeat this seaon by losing this match. Tbe 
cores wore Carnegie, 1875; Johns' Hopkins. 1869; Gettysburg, 1S27; Lehigh? 1767.' ' '
A. M. Fisber led Carneetes score ith tbe highest individual >r any man on the team this sen,-
Ori the Plaid Screen
individual i
7. Fork-8. Swear
9. Cuthbertth
vlUt imen applying who in bis opinions are best qualified.Application' must be filed with 
tbe Committee by March 1. 1927, and should bo addressed to Mr. W. ~W. Trench, Secretary, Charles A. 
Coffin Foundation, 6cbenectady, 
New York.The following commjtte slsUng ot a representative ot each of (be foiiowituf nmd socJet/es will award tbe fellowships funds acting with tbe ad vip co-operation o* tbe General, Eleetrie Companys Committee:OanoDunn. Notional Academy of Sciences; C. G. Chesney, Amerl'- ran Institute of Electrical Engineers : Defth .0. M. Lelanfl, St>* cfefcy.. for. . tho ' Promotion of EnBlbepfioS^Mu^lOp..^,-y',,Four.graduate students andt>ne 
ondrgraduatchave been awarded fellowships for the year'"or 1926-1 
7. : In edition the committee 
granted-one renewal and ^pointed 1
Those receiving the wards are. 
aa Allows: .1Hubert' N: Alyea, for research work abroad at cne'Nobel 'Institute, Stochholm, Sweden and at Princeton on the Inhibition of cbnvisal xe&ctlons,. atyfllee ...pho-, tocbriMciiy arid ' thermdly. ' Mr. Alyea is' a.graduate of Princeton, and ataci bolds a degree of M. A. fronV tbe same Institution. Warren F. Busse, holder of degrees ot Fh. 'B in Physics and AT. 9: ip Chemistry from the University, ot Wisconsin, is at prcaent a research assistant at .Wisconsin Univerity and propoi
returns
received from.a delayed, match. witli Amherst College an Western Maryland. -'Carnegie' gargets wero fired during the week 'of Pecsinber and then sealed.until the week. of. January 14. herst and Western Maryland | fired their targets. ' Both these, itches were' won. - The scoria, pf the four position match' with' Western Maryland :belug: . Carnegie ,8oO out of a possible 2,000; Western Maryland.1,847.-- By previous arrangements, *nly 
three of tbe position scores were ed in the match against Amherst College. These positions prone, kneollng'and standing. Tbe scores -were* Carnegie '1,375 out of 1.B00; Amberat 1.288.The Individual lineup and snoreB for Carnegie w<
The tiunegie Plebes lost to the 
v: & J.  frashmenv ina. hard fought gamo last Tuesday. played 
ue a preliminary to tlie varsity encounter.. The score was 36 to; 16. and the Red and Black1 cubs {111/ deserved' to win. although not by that margin. -Tho score st 
the end of the half was' in, their fav'or, but in tbe second 
Xrame they located the basket nnd ran It up. V  -i  v
Tbe Plebes flayed a fair floor 
nocm! Wit their shooting..* re* tMd^oia^sjfc-th* totat tot* 
the entire teaok . Howdy ' Oroeskloea, ft Carnegie Plebe two years ago, was high scorer for the evening, inth Ur field goals and two fouls. Too bad Howdy changed schools. :For ihe piebos, Bond aad Hartmanplay^.the beat g&fa-}? VbUe 
Oro^skloss and Lewis starred for tbe Red and' Black. Lineup r V,'. & J.35. Carnegie16.Unison ...........F................Brown
osekloss.......F.......... Hartman'ucks..............C............... PondEU is ___Powders
Si'colst ..f.......C.......... GimmeirDstltulions  Lewis tooUruA.. Slater for Loucke, Hirshfor Ellila, ConDeliy tor Brown, Nollson for Gimmel, Brown for Connelly, Blere Cor Nielson, Connelly for. Powders. Goals from, fieldLewis . 4, Groaskloss 5, Loucks, A. Slater 2, Sllis 3. Brown, 
rtmas, Bond 2,. Glojteel. Foul rtsW. &.J., 5 <>ut of 11; Ci negle 6 out of 12. UmpireSi 
RefereeBaird.
BY FREOER1CK O. WOODS
ONCE MORE Carnegie. 10 In the U.weB of
MXKS 'SS Temen pull up thelr grades. Jom Irwin can put
tbe" remainder of Its gaines.  The studeat body will be.ooreUian 
Isfled If Captain Hurt and Ms gviS S w^^brlSwt^bS jlKL making it a Carnegie series, and bump H W. & J.. breaking _tnat Jin*. It is a lot to ask, but we think thst tpam of '* 
kotber gme CroiJ breaklng ibi .Is'capable' otdoing,It.
. W. & 3. ootmmns Crnegle-s
tave toDbe done about that when Wasb-Jeff plays here on Marcb 1. 
THIS RIFLE It ot our  B?U!^^SUS&
INTRA-NIURAL BASKET 
BALL TO START FEB. 9
ball Fobmary 9. At the meeting Tuesday. January II. M. O. bbo^ mao SigmaPhi Epiaou fraternity, was elected vloo president, ond 1* 
F. McQulK), Phi Kappa:Fraternity, electcd treasurer.  John Fry president The sch^ule. for 
the whole .season.,Is now complete and Rppears elsewhere in this Isups appearing recently
Bible 400 is no loager a rarity, and ooe ineligible man,.who eck for tbe second semester, licapable ot shooting 390
Df 400. Rifle,mparatlvelydoue strides sluce It i r previof 359 
Carnegie, has. taken 1 i.minor sport InTho
Tiban7il!,~'3 ndeV TSbe credit tor the records
meted cups'lor i> Lieutenai
t tbe credit t ue to the Inter i thV Carnegie
CARNEGIE UNABLE 
TO HOLD W. & J.
aken In tbe sport by Major Tayloi 
hm O. T. C. unit, wb. has donated cups oeets: and to Lieutenant Arrowsmltb. heod c
GIRLSRIFLE TEAM FIRES 
CHAMPIONSHIP MATCH
The . final i
best for Carnegie having a Bcor of 2P0 out of a possible 200.,Th' enslueers matcli will b flTed any one week between Kel 
nary 1 and April IB. This also i i aaUonal match, all members of 
he R. O. T. C. ia the-'englneVlne inita X thd varloi/a cllegBi biog 
eligible 'to shoot  '10 men lC each team.' The match will be shot in four positions, tb<I score counting as Ifce acori the tn>phy winner. This an 
uoal match is sponsored by The Society of American Milite
4 Pos.-3 Pos .... 374. 282
-suits of tbe N. It. 
nter-colleglate Chamionship which closed Januar>- 23, 
ave.not been received as yet. A 
03: days before the end of. tbe 
ontost the Carnegie girls who 
tood in the lead for their Bcbool for: Ruth Dawson, Helen Bright,ijndShapiro,' Jean Rc Alice Bright. Ruth Dawson bad f 696 out. cf
PTTIC0RD TO MANAGE 
VARSITY CROSS COUNTRY
At the last meetlnjof tbe fttbir. Pettlcord 
elected varsity crsa couutry iftger . for nexf year, nnd Bur? 
H. Pease was selected to rfige the Plebe barriers.- otb,
virloU6:team3; .only thirteen,.ofihe 
twntr-flW.' belu ;presebL at . the last mwtlntf. To encourago betAtendaoce, it wna vulod that r fraternity or dormltory not represeisted at tie meetlngs wuuld be subject to a G0-cent fine. This rule: twent lnto cff^bt' onv'JibUary' 11; it Is necesBary that each team 
pay the 912 fee before. tbe first game or the scries. . This jnonwy U used tor. ninnine expenses and tor 
the payment of tbe rereree./Tho last meeting this semester wae January 18, at which the following rules, concerning .tho; se
lection ot teams, wero drawr.Any member of  a, fraternity or lVL J dormitory registered la s. regular 
of degree course who does' not ploy I with the vaxsliy team or has ne played professional basketball, to! eligible to piar. Each club ls| limited td IB players.weekly -^meetings will re____February 1 and continuethroughout he season. The $13 it and tho roster of the 
players muut be had from each club by February 1.' There meetings should -be well-attended, as it is only.through,the co-operati
Skibos Ahead at Half, ll*10f 
But Presidents Redly to.
Cop Game, 34-21
Carnogle Tech  was-unable to. 
break the W. & J. -Jin*." losing to Prrsldenta last Tuesday ntsht January 18, in the fourtoenth'^xinsecutlre game, -. 34*21. Wash-Jelt dWMved its victory although' tiallpolat 11*10. at the end
The Univerelty of Marquette bar 
new dean of women wbo-doea not approve .- ot amoldn^. but she 
UitnVa bobl>ed hair and moderately ahort skirts aro ulte all right She ie going to.do fway.with the.9 dock curfcir ond all other un
necessary rulings.
of tbe^Srat half. In this stava. tho Tartans completely outplayed tbe Red and Black but CMch| 
Kerr's men came back with n geance lu tbe second holt <' 
Wasb-JeS played wrotchcd basketball tlurlns the first two <tfiartore, the plnyers eoemiug to be slugsish and tic famed ipresldsntll team work missing except 
.ear tho end ot the period, Car_iegle, meanwhile, was playing glittering ' basketballoutpassli nnd cuiehoQtlng her ,- opponents 
and reftchlas the scorliig xom 
most at' wilL ,- 
Carnegie started the point.registration with a foul throw almost at the start .Klrkman evened the
ELLIOTT'S 
4010 Fifth Ave. 
Store ia Convenient 
for Students
 Supplies
Our branch store was. establish*ed for the p&troa&ge ot uelghborbood students and is stocked with merchandise required lia
______>r accordcd  thenr. ' Pottl-cord succeeds Murray, CoUlster, varsity mnager' for the past
ilble 600.
Bright had shot the first 
stage. bet<
. trophy
i by the Iowa State Agricui> and Mechanical Arts college.
the relation between. cheistudy 
ileal -effect. and the ionization . produced by cathode rays outside th.: Bernard. D. Holbrook, for Investigating some phase ..(nbt yet dsternilnl) of'-the general problem of the reaction between radiant energy and mutter, as investigated by tbe icloud-expansion chamber. Mr. Holbrook Is a graduate, of Lelaind Stanford: Jr.:University, btwing recolved both a B. A. and M. A. degree from tbat InslUut! -Thomas J. Killian, for work thermionic currents from absorl Amis and conduction in gases vapors. Mr. Killian wa6 g**a aied from the Massachusetts aUtnteof-fTechiiology, 1325, with tbe dogrece of B. S. an<l M..S. -He -wllV^'pursue bis : research w< " under tlie followship in l*rltice1 
University.Lloyd ,P. Smith, Ui\W<*Telty Nevada, '.25, B. S. Is/stiidylng at Cornell University and ywin do re.: the-[.theory
1. Weatberell ..
2. Fisber AM..3. McConagby .4. Porter ........
G. Cuthbert ....
Total ..........
Fi3her G. W..........349 26:
luch credit is due to tbe Car negle' teamVfof tber fact, that wltl 
scores of \thelr fi^st match they defeated two teams 'eTe able to benefit by a month )f. practice and match 
periehce.It t6 expected that next eemes;
-higher than -.at';'present ?The; majority of the varsity' and plebe ifle teams belong to the R. O. and. -Carnegie - should have - gocJd showing In the R. O. T. ntercolleglate Ihlfd corpB &r 
match, theHearst Trophy mate nnd . the Engineers motch U 
year.The plebe team continued th<
of: thermal^iooiztttion,; or,-theory -ot the "HaU; Effect E 1ng 1925-20 .h -was. employed the. General: Electric Company' Research. Laboratory.Jam . Taylor, a graduato of Wittenberg ^College, and . hold of an il; Ai-degree from the Ohio State .University, is at present e(slant professor -at WUtenbecg. Witi. his'fellowehlp ke will ;dc searco .workat Ohio -State and attmpt. a pnxtisl:re30lutioa of tli
: Harold N. , Row.e. Svho haa; duting the 'past 'yecr^beeniwi... . w . tiie"Un|yfer^it^V^< 'Chlc^O/ urider this frtindoo^has .beei a oontlauation of . his fellowship, foT another year. Mr. Row 'rras i graduated from Union "otego-ju 1929 with degree of B..S.'-In rJB? , and remained there as an ,In-1 etructor for the year following, alter 'which he went to Chicago. Dnilng. tlie post year .Mr. ; Rowe has.. iben'engnged-in -ft .test-'ofth qtian-; turn tneoty bt'X-radiaUon-'H'.'.? ;
Approximately $20,000 (exactly SIP,600) has;: been ^worded : in fel: lowahipa.iiitbe four years lxia.t the 
'FoQodtloD bas bn in operation.
(Continued from Page.One) 
re served chocolato by . Miss tea who arranged tbe entaitalnut; and then taken through tfio 
hospital to see tlie men who were 
ino-ble to be present Neat Saturday , afterdoon the ^nbwHl eing -ln 'th& Lmi&',Th.caer when' the' Freshmen girls will mve Open House for the high 
school, 'sophomore ' girls ot 
vicinity.
ion that It would 
not permit a rearing of. that stage.I Mias Brlgbte other two scores
The. prise for the winning team 
ih this contest is tlve silver medals ropiiately engraved, to go I the live highest scorers .of. th team. Tbe second and third prizi bronze medals. lndlvidu percentage medals are also awaj Last year the University of 
Maryland, coed's won the N. R. A. 
?bamplonBblp. 'Thei
concerned that' the be made the success 
which It deserves.There are 35 teams which divided Into four leoguoi
.. 6hot from tho' floor. 
That wa tbo only,, time tho Red Black wae eWfld In the' first Harpster/^Hvenod the tally 
with: a . foul. twW .and Comeglo. aulckly gntbered three flejd .goali 
and a successful foul throw wh< Conch Kerrs pupils were landlnj 
ono field goal through tho medium ot a long toss by Klrkmnts.'' Then Wash & Jeff , rallied for 
period and Gilchrist put his team 
bacfc in the runnlne by caging twi
with low prices , and expert attention.
Drawing Materials : Architecte Supplies .- Engineer' Supplies Artiste* Materl*! '
meras & ProjectorselopinglaosSp98toles
elimination' sertoe, - between the victors of the respective leagues, will be played the last weok 6t March.* Tbe. final winner wlil be the team bavlng the highest per
centage ot victories.___________
and Pease succeeds -Joe
Dowlii
Pdttlcord Is a Junior architect id is a member of Bela Theta PI aternity. He comes from Wheel* lip, West Virginia. Pease corneBfrom Sbaron,- Pa,, and is,a JunioriBo^.-.seatlns,... ..the .department . of  Building TOrchestra, ................ 2.00Construction. He. Is'a member of |Firet 3 rows .In first balcony. 
Kappa Sigma fraternity.
Cress
Balance of fer^t balcony.
ress country stock took a boom IFirBt 4 rows In second balcony 1. 
... Carnesie'during the jrast aea-1Balance of jhe aeats 
son, during which  tbe' Western  nplonsbip was *on by the Tari, and much is expected ot next
W. anil. J. coming frotp behind the fourth 'period tor a 84*21 -wiu., 
and J.84 Carnoglo81.
Klrkman .........P............. AmansRobinson ........P..WhiieGllchrtat .........C....;.. Harpsler
Carlin ....o.^G.V......... W?*Wild. ...'..V. ...O.____HitchcockSubstitutionsHerrold tor Kirk_jm. Amos tor Robinson," Ssitdsrs 
tor GUChrist. Ashman for Wild, Cnjnt. for Amans,: -.Amani tor White, WMte for Crum, Hurd for
Sttnsfj
SELECT JUDGES FORINTERCOLLEGIATEGLEE CLUB CONTEST
The University cf Missouri. has on enrollment of 961 in tbe school of Journalism. This number ineludes 142 women and 219 men It is the largest'enrollment In th( 
history of the'achool.
and .the .flve-h1gheiare'to count The cohdil of the contest are: match will slet ot three etages. , An : e> stage must be completed inday/ Each .stage wlll -oonsh two strings ach of 'two sighting
There la also a special rate Btudents who delre to attond, tbe follows:
Orchestra ............-r-3First balcony ..............Notices will Boon'hopoated 
the bulletin boards,-giving Information regarding tb 
est 'which is to be held
Hitchcock, Hitchcock tor Lynch, Kallnck for Harpster, Stauffer foe. 
Hitchcock.Field -goatsKlrkman 6,' Robin
son 4, Gilchrist 2, Carlin 2. Amai ^7Ud, Amans .2. White 2. Horpster 
Vurtfier b, Lynchi Hurd.
EUROPEWhere Jp you tvimttogo?
Dova tbe Uilne f To SwltjMliOOf 
MoaiSi'taSaslucl d acodkod?'Qates Touts .vltlu alt thwri places .
shots fc fird ili Ih T>rone.position.Thoresults  of the maft no'. he known until ail er ti of February.
.. (Continued Fro songThe "rtiz "The Lotus Flov cefved the hoiio
i Pago One)111 be 
\ which 2927.planning to. attend 
tbeIterfratarity Forni, which 
Is being held
.,Foul goalsKlrkman, 1 out ot "tSe Herrold. l out ot 2; Robinson, 1 the out of 6; Gllcbrlst, 1 out of 2; CarUn, missed 1;: Wild, missed 2; White, missed 1; Stauffer,-missed
'iGra-'S:':T,URS-225FlithAv5.,N.Y.
 __  ^_____________________ gening\9 ie'concert Th concertf.?rtll 
foipT  dose at Th9 prices lor' tb
iet Virerelty in - a prone match, during the week endiug 
January IB.' The scores were as Carnegie 4&8 out f
negle-were: - 1. Kaschagen. 
Lockwood 
Kubnel. ...
. ZachriiBon . 
. Scott Lindsay 10. Hiller .. ..This ipatch  
Central H. S. O., but diie t
also> Washington, amisunderstanding 
foiled to fire their 
Their . targets ft match xrtll be - a^ed: durlag the weektof January.^' and Uu ' ill'ba telegraphed.. .The plebe team Is doing nally well in..their, prone, 
ijttctos, and.much credit tor this he showing is due to the . expert 
coaching of Lieutenant Ai imlth, and the aasistance Kaschagen,'  iU-iplaln of the plebe boisg coached 
the sitting poBiUdn lu j 
paration" .tor;. their -prone pitting match with UnitedSt( .^Narol Academy, and Eastern High School of Washington,. D. C. will be flred during the we 
iiig'February .-3 B. O. T. C. Ti
wlilch
FRANK BROTHERS
MhAwtiueHmil Shoo.
 ^jrwy>ewtve|iftlblt Shop ; 
Jfnkliw. Araade, PHMuti
The R; O. T. C. is now:-flriag the 
third  corps  area inter-collegiate match. Each of tlie nine
ip three teams having the. high-.
L 3Core willfire-forv^e natlonal rtm^ot^ip.'before :^bniaTy--19, Lait -ear's inatch was won by Vir
ginia Polytechnic, Carnegie getting iii.thplace. '.Although.: there 
tiopbyv given tor the ^Anni jpatch,-the honor and pah: 
ty. are'weil worth working for. he William' Randolph Hearat trophy, match 'WiU.be. flred'during 
the ^riod'Fe'bruary 15. Thlainatch'le conducted under the aus
pices of f tbo Chicago Evening 
American andconsists i>t f< sUiona; .> SI*- , shots are flred In 
aa*b position, ono for sighting and 
ilve tot record. This is: a nalional. match-: In which, .ihe4.R.. O. yT. units' In all the colleges .compete. >ny It O. T. C. man belng ellgibls 
I to' ah'oot '^'liat i'yearB .trbiihy^was i woti^by' tW.'UntverBlty' a? Mlnh> 'sola, Paul Henderson'shooting the
Intra-Miiral Basket Ball Schedule
NATIONAL LEAGUE
Wood-A. f. O.Acacia,S. A. E.ScobellP. K. A.
Woodlawn Club.....
Feb. 9 (1) 7:30Fib. 19 (2> 7:30March 23 . (1) 8:30Merck 8 (1) 7:30(1) 8:80
Alpha Taw Omega...Feb. 9 (1) 7:30(^T-SOFeb. 17 (1) 8:30
March 22 (2) 8:30March 9 (1). 7:30
Acacia.  ..........
Feb. 16 <2) 7:30March 2 il) T.3
Feb. 10(2) 7:30 .March IB (1) 8:30(2) 8:30
Sigma Alpha Epsilon
March 23 - (1) 8:30Feb. 17 (1) S:30Feb. 10 (2) 7:30a -MaTCh 2 (2) 7;30(1) 8:30 '
Scobell__ ___
. March'. 9 . (1) 7:30 1March 22 (2) 8:30March IB (1) 8:30March 2 (?) 7:30(2) 8:30
Pi Kappa Alpha.....
. March 3 1) 8:30 (Numbers in
March 9 (1) 7:30 psren.th.e3le
March 23 March 16 . (2) 8:30 (1) 8:30 refer to floor)
'Feb. 15 (2) 8:30
AMERICAN LEAGUE  . .
PhiKappaMiller . HallThetaXIDeltaUpsilon, BeU : 'Theta PIDelta
PM. Kapp.............
Feb. 16 (2) 7:30March 17 (1). 8 :30March 8 (2) .'7:30March 2 (2) 8:30.(2) 8:30 
Miller....^... .......
Feb. 9 (2) 7:30
March 1 (2) 8:30Febr 17 (2) 8 [30.March 15 (2) 8:30March 9 (1). 8:30 ..
Thata xjFb. 16 (1) 8:30March 1 (2) 8:30Feb. 10 (1) 8:30Feb. 23 (1) 7:30(1) 1:00.
Delta Upsilon........
March 17 (2) 7:30Feb. 17 - (2) 8:30Feb. 10 (1) 8:30March 23 (2) 8:30(1) .8:30 .
Beta Theta Pt.......
March>*6 . (2) 8:30March 16 (1) 1:30March 22 (2) 8:30-Feb. 23 (2) 8:30.(2) 7:30
Delta phi DeKa.,.
. March 2 March S ' (2) 8:30 . (1) 8:30 (Numbers in^parenthea
March 16 : (1) 7:30 s refer to fl
March 22 (1) 8:30 oor)
'eb. 15 (2) .7:30
' FEDERAL LEAGUE '
SigmaNuSigma Phi Spello*Delta Tau Delta1,5!.Beta Sigma RhoBess
Sigma Nu...........
Fob: .9 ' (1) 8:30Feb. 17 (1) 7:30March 22 (2) 7:30Feb. 23 (2). 7:30March IB . (-2)**8:30
. Slma Phi EpsiloFeb. 9 . (1).8:30
March 3 (2)-8:30(2) '7:30March 9 (2) 8:30March 1 (1) .7:30
Delta Tau Delta.. .
Feb. 17 . (1) 7:30March 3. (2) 8:30Feb. .10- (2) 8:30March 17 (I-) S: 30-March. 23 M'ar7fS0
Kappa Slflma Hho.
March 22 . (2) 7:30March 16 it) .7:30Feb. 10 ..(2) 8:30
March 1 (1) 8:30.(2) 7:90
*. Beta Sigma Rho...
Feb. 23'. . (2) 7:30- March/9- . (2) 0:30March 17  (I) 8:30March 1 (l)r 8^0(2) 8:30
Bess.....................
March. 15 . (2) 8:3*1 (Numbers'
March 1 March23 . March 6 ' (1) 7:30 . (1) 7:30 ,(2) 7:3.0 n renthesis refer to'floor) .
Feb. 16 <2) 8:30
CENTRAL LEAGUE ;
WelchMtoQlllAlpha. Sigma Ph...Delta.Mu
Hender-Phi Sisma Kappa.KappaSterna
Weleft..........
Feb.' 9. (2>-8:30Feb. 1 .;(l)--7:30Marchilo -(1) 6:39 -March-3 (1),7:30March 1.(2)7:30.-(1) -8:30 
. McQlll'.'..
Feb. 9 ' . (2V 8:301. March S .. (2) 7:30Feb.. 23 XI) Zt30 ' .'Feb; IS'(iy. 8:^0March 12 (I) 7:30(2)7:30;
Alpha Slvina PM..
 Feb. 1 March.,(1)'. 7:30. (2) 7?1Feb: 10 (l)v7-30-.March (2) 7:30Match-16(2) 8:30; March 8: (1)9:30
March10- . Feb'. 23 'Feb. 10 '-March 17 Feb.-17*' X March" 2
You are an experienced srnoker 
and you know your brand!
YOURE an ^experiencedsmoker, would not be far aoS away the 
You know good:-tobaccos.. You firjt 1( Caoiels werent qulitir.
XI) 8:S0: (1) 7:80 ; -m:1;a0 
. RA Sigma Kappa.. 
 Kappa Slama .Uarch 24 March 16 * March 8 V 1 M*rch 3 Feb 15  '(Numbers in-parenthesis refer to floor).-,,; .
supreme; they would not .be the 
'etwhelouog preference, of sntok-know taste' and fragrance. - 
. And you, must, on the best"7-7 
tbat* Camels. ' Only the primest - ers who have tned every brand, 
tobacco, grown an good enough 
lor you-the expert need smoker
Whatever you do you re going; to 
4ongKvilyoukAow.it.
If .Canwb weren't the beet, they
Yoiir.taste tells you the tobacco - 
ditference ut cigarettes,and youre. 
gnlwg to amoke the*bst. Your 
advice to othen ts  *?:
Cimeir
J REYNOLDS TOBACCO .COMPANY. WINSTON-SALBM,. N. C.

---------------------------------------------------

' Masaginff Editor!........*.....New? Editor^..................PraDcia;KoJ&Athletic Editor.   .  .V. .Frederick ft WoodsJ2lrff8Tfnrl zonflhc
Elienor TeJimsdge - Robert M, PewHarold JacobsonRalph tUtchcock', Barto Grlflse'A'.E. Fisher Eugene Scanlon
 -'y : J CWIOR EDITORS   'Meredith Stamp  . . Milton Cohen-.Fenton Finn '  Jean Roy ';
ALUMNI EDITORS.Margaret Russell'- ' Herbert Gran
JUNIOR ASSISTANTS 
Florence McLaughlin ' Helen Reed'Josephine Clark Cliarles HartungJohn Schneidet  ; (
REPORTERS;Stewart Ralston Wliiiam McNeil Eugene Jarema  R.H., 6nyder  Bob YoungHel6ti Whlteblll Joseph G. Ritter Miriam Msrgolls Malcolm Oaj
Cyril Letzelter Bunter  Clyde Parle
BUSINESS STAFF
Circulation Menage
E......................Jmes Seibert - ' T.. R. Zenk ' ', R. NobleCIRCULATION ASSISTANTS 
L. Sacks Q.W. -Brahmst j. R. BrownA. .Tepllts H. U Marshall
$*.
Affa; Oflto.Hwk SehfBlfy 1 or Linden 12M-W.
WANTED: IHDIVlbUAIi CONCEPT
Just last week a meeting of members of the 
faculty and s -group of responsible students 
was' held here to weigh and discuss problemi) 
onthe campus and attempt-to combine the stu
dent'. and faculty.. viewpoints . into something 
ffortfi. Many "worth-while suggestions
and^co'ouneiia1 wp-'.ihad, just and reliable 
cricisnis' were. offered, to the faculty by '6tudiitSy ahd'in r th - main , th meeting was not 
just another session.
 .;We, feel, however, if there was anything revolvingabout in our minds during the progress 
of that meeting, it was a sore lack of teachers.
. Education today has. taken a highly specialized
cialized'labor-^-the college professor is 
A'small operation'to the final-product. The 
really sad factor, when the, product ;is r4ady 
to;be turned-loose on the marhetthe market 
- at whioh'-his servicesare sold for an existence, 
is that he is a combination' of these parts, a 
product of. many .specialists' handiworkj and 
not a. whole cultural body.
. Modernists cry about the revolt of youth.Z. 
Never has the youth been such a slave.to'bonds, 
never has he been a.product so truly molded, 
andehapedby the hands of specialists without^ 
even a peep as to the character of, the event
ual craft. From .his'matriculation into themodern educational institutibii until' EsT griaHnation,,,h^ rigidly follows a set' course. He 
 leaves, a bundle .and' conglomeration offacta, 
lectures, and laboratory  experiments, as well 
~w' as the conveyance -for *thei collegiate fashions, 
lines, and dissipations which are all tossed into 
his makeup. ;True^ society is lera conyentional 
than' a few deceideb. ago and assumes' many 
privileges^therto.v startling but the "course 
open is none the leea exacting and the event
ual similarity of . tho product is" none the less
Notes of MusicBy Allan V. Nem
Old Max Nonlau iB dead and 
buried, end many ef his pwudo-psy
chiatrical pronunciamentoe. are dead and buried' too. But It will 
fnltft rnoni than ote.C. B. 8. to lay 
his ghost; and Inc -O. B. S.'s are, hot produced very often, the snarling spirit of the fleadlah Mai wiU itlnue to leap upon the bones of heroes; his obscetae shade will continue to dabble In stained gore,
aa'd drum u 
skulls.id a-thousand log fleBh and continue to cepts; will'
THE SiNKiWC IN THE CUT
them to ptrnggle to their feet in an attempt to 
assert at least one individual concept as a con. 
tribtion to the end.From Michigan State 
"News.
.  We fail in that no general understanding of 
th-fife into which we must matriculate, is ;asaimilatedl A college loyalty, a few lasting 
friendships and contacts, a bold front, are our 
rewards ' But the blm cannot be laid at th 
foot of the college professor. He is also a .pro
duct of a technical scholarship and hot of lib
eral understanding. No other method is in his; 
hands.' The remedy,, obviously, is an attempt to 
evade the evil. To establish groups on a're
vised basisi To gain a common ground with 
the' professor as a student and not the mouth
piece spouting thp textbooks. To foster a fit
ting environment for successors  whereby 
the individual may stand ou hi6 feet intellectu
ally. It is for: those.  the present younger 
generation who are aware of the pit in which 
.. we: stand' to'- block .its enlargement. .It .is for
VICE
-Barton W. Currie, writes an interesting edi
torial in the January number of the Ladies 
Home Journal. It is interesting in moro ways 
thanone.- In the first place, the title. "Vice on a Ped
estal." Such a head. at once attracts the at
tention of the reader.
' But the. editorial, itself does more. . It tells 
of an old axiom which runs: VIRTUE IS ITS 
OWN REWARD, and.'how it has'been substi
tuted by the world.of art and letters and 
decoration that, setsthe.; fashions in .reading, 
thinking and entertainment*1for the aphorisln: 
ONLY VICE IS INTERESTING AND PROF
ITABLE;.
It goes, on with a list of. modern.lnotloes:
. Virtue is the Punishment of the .Drab.
Love is an Anaemic Form of Passion.
All Who Pretend to Do Good are Shams and 
Liars.There ar'No Impulses Save.Sox Impulses. - 
There are No Appeals Save Sex Appeals. . ; 
Only Morons Believe There is-a.Soul. '  : 
There' Never Was a Hero, a< Good Man,1 a 
Good,Woman, Who Could.Not-BeExplained 
as a . MoiiBter .:.of Animalism,. Selfishness, and ' CBntOyerwhelmingly so in the Case of All 
Americans. ' (i, '
Such are supposed to,:he the :modern ideas 
of Life. There is. no,?*estrain.t,;no curb, no, lim
itation in the younger generation.  They are 
wonderful and it shines outpf:them like celes
tial rays. 'When they-raise .hell they raise hell 
with-a joyous selfishness und disregard of the 
feelings, the property'and the rights of others 
'.that is admirable beyond measure f praise.* 
 When they, curse and blaspheme,', when, 
they get disgustingly drunk and. .broadcast 
their wisdom' concerning vsex 'degeneracy .aiifl 
sinless immoralities,..they have shown the way 
of reUeving-mediocreVlives ' of the .crushing 
dreariness.of existence.
. The' modem generation'is not a6..bad as alt 
that. There are some individuals that the edi
torial. may, apbly to, .but onthe .whole, -the 
modem generation is not so terribly evil. There 
has-lways been vice; without evil there would 
be iio good; But why condemn the whole gen
eration for the deeds of the few t.
: All yer the country mothers arereading his 
editorial..,* Perhaps some may believe it.' I 
most certainly would hot have my mother-be? 
lieve such things about myself or my associates. 
I would not have her think that all her teaching, 
her good influence, has been of no avail. ' 
THEREFORE, I PROTEST AGAINST THE 
UNENDING PUBLIC EXAGGERATIONS OF THE VICES OF THE MODERN GENERA
TION.' , .
RRR V V 1T 8R jR
RESULTS F 
THE FRENCH 
ELECTIONS
Recent Elections Show 
Gains in Both Houses by the 
Liberal Left Wing Parties
BRI ANDISTS WIN
Art Begs to be Excused From All Specific (
Sociological Accountability and the Reformers
(From.the Nation.) .The artista* replies to'i the New Masses Questionnaire are not of a . 'sort to bring great comfort to those who. woiild make art the hand; maiden of ' reiyolutioc. Fourteen writers, replied to .a series a care
fully' . formulated.' queries, and though. ail, wlt one exception; beloi^e mor^' r leBB.vaguely to the left wiiig rather than to the rights not even Upton' Sinclair answered .with' a1 direct afllrmallve;!to the <iuestlu' ''May society properly demand .'of'.the artist . .'..the tranavaluatlon  of Values?" Three of the ten. who. answered another specific question called'American culture decadont;" several con
fessed a marked bios .in favor' of the revolutionary labor movement;^ and several expressed an interat In the machine age;.' but oso and all revealed the . Immemorial ten* dency of the arttat to shy at the "demands of society/: 'This Istoo esoteric for. me.* comments Stuart Chase: "I do. not tblnk it will do society any good to demand." replies Joseph Kmtch: "It would have ita nerve. says Heywood Broun: i|eU!7 exclaims 
Gonevleve Taggard:-and most of the restRobinson Jeffers. Babetts Deutach, Van Wyck Brooke, and Waldo Frankreply In slmllarr laahton.' At any pavtUular period . they might; io Uielr. answers imply.: Had themselves In sympathy with the ''Ins* orfwlth -(he'.0uta."-but they ^sk to be eicused from.specific sociologicalaccountaUllty"and ' Ihey prey to. bo^saved froai their 
retormer-frienda---   Yet none of.thete .writers can be 
Impatiently swept aside . aa .an f dilettante.: Not ono i.to any longing, for the 
' Ivory tower;'DQt'0neli-:e08cemed -with -an ,"escape;^: and .not: onn ask 'to be allowed to remain dreamy over the past Nothin* in Uttrte
of art as a function of life, aa of something which: draws ite materials-from contemporary existence and. in.' turn, modifies the form which that .existence takes; with* out exception' their, ideal Implies revolution-and change. Yet they 
will not and cannot deAue their .conception cf their function jn-any terms, satisfactory to ihoeo whose coajcem wjth; . social xotprm. Is more . immediate and direct. As one -reads /theiT responses . one-, is led to suspect that triumphant revoiution-wiU be as distrustful of the artieis produced under it as other societies ;have generally been of their own stepchildren 'and one ia reminded of the'fact that though the radical is fond of charging, thatthe artist of the past hoa perslstenll truckled to capitalism and reaction, at least .the capltallat and therecaUonarp' have not -sualiy thought so.At bottom, porhaps. the cause'of the quarrel lies in the fact.that the, artlat has always  demanded more -freedom (and more thoroughness than the reformer, thinks oltber neceBsary.cr-adviaable;- -The fear of practical consequences la not ao Immediately.before^hls eyes and he Is not. so ImpatientHe loves to reopen questions which the refonner.-thinis .cloned and-to. dwell Upon the little !lrOnles which, the refermer; wouTd rather beep hidden. Interested In perfection rather than workable: compromise;; sacrificing 
even loyalty, to. Insight, he If* distrustful of - all-Orthodoxies and heloves-to express-the protest or.'the aspirationwhich P can hardly be got Into the.form of an argument In his.heart he taevor.believes that any>phtloBophy confine.the:wholetruth.- and hls deareet concernis always.-wlth'-.ih* -things-.whichof-, fldal. propoeltlona-la^ve: out ;. -Always feeling himself . jUHtlOed. he woold. neverthelaaa.- ratherthumb at-Berloue PeOpIe aad callas. ;WlUut xeapUdK they^think | his trade RAINA than ba called upon to justify himself. before any court, and he always pleads for a change of .venue. ' At his feeblest he ia a seful safety-valve afford; ing, aharmless outlet for unregenerate impulses - which, It totallysuppressed; might blow ua all up; at his best he perceives truthB still too nebulous to be defined or defended. '
Back in the Middle Ages, when 
all .thd T.orld was aa orthodox as 
any reformer can ever hope make it again, the artist used his freedom to keep aliye, for example) that,faith In''the. worth of the world and the flesh.which both scholarship and authority, would have utterly crushed, and he was able to do it because even when he gave his alleglancc to the. church'he somehow managed not to 'comply with, the splrlt of its demands. And thechances are that when that
when therevolution is complet and all that the reformer nera hopes for has been obtained, the artist wUl-still be found occupying hlmaelf wlth < things which are aa undreamed of In the Revolutionist Handbook at romantic love w the Summa Theologla.
- Reform roogh-hews :sclety. and art ie always more or lesa temptuoue of Its: summary through useful - labore.. ^You - do icir work." It says.. let me . do mine. On the whole I-prefer:-an avowed nemy to the friend who would deown'klnd.-
--Ninety treehmen of the Western Reserve - Unlverelty were kidnap* ed. .taken In can to a-ban. striped. and palatad: green by aophomovM' last week. Protesting 
freebmea were , tlvaa a Wood coat
For the First Tima a Socialist 
la Bleated as President 
of the Chamber. )
-ylng clothes, 
follow, bis preitJnue to tweak the iur little present-day Wagand Zolas and John Stuart and to snigger at tfie.verses >f our diluted Emily Dickinsons ind. ahrlvelled 'WhUmens. and to tell tbe dreadful things they have found out about onr Lilliputian 
Poes.They will spoil our.pleasures by proving how shabby, our heroes really are; they will point .out that there Is' something terrible the matter with .them; they will show that they are-' afflicted with psycha9thenla, neurasthenia, vlgilambUsin and synkinesia; paramimia and sympathicotonia'; hoprolalia, echolalla, pseudolalla, verbigeration and anorexlaj arlthmomanla, snthropophobla, astasla-abasla, achromotopsia, noo-thymopsychlc, noothymopsychla' ataxia, opbthalmopleglc-onomatomania,- opisthotonus 
and .the Babinskl toe.Those, who do not specialize In the aggrandizement of tbe psyebopath'ological vocabulary by means of horrendous Greeclems, make u their laCk'.in other wayc. Sot them compensate by saying things they shouldn't, and screamln loudly and using, bright green; co^ 
2fs for':their magazines;, others rely upon Purltanoceh'trlcU'm -and academic ivy. ' Jt does not matter they ore all critics; they are all ex
cellent in .their place; . but they keep forgeuini bow' small a'ploce 
It .really Is. '.-I shall now:-proceed to criticise 
tbe work of Algernon Charles Swinburne. Have you noticed that be does not say a great dealT Are you aware of. the fact that his poems are deficieht-Jn meinlnjg?.. Do you know that In 18G6 he was considered Immoral? Would It not be valuable to remember that he overdoes 
alliteration, and that .li yon read loo much of bim you will become satiated? Had. you not better be apprised .of .the -limitation, of hlfl
o cabula ry? Did 2r realis
that one, at ledet; of the following 
list of words occurs on e7ery page 
or his poems?.Love, Ups, klBses,. froth, foam, fire, flowers, fruit, feet, pain, etiog, thunder, storm, dreams, death, wan,
eiohtHad :t better 1
Atalantaformefl that bis poei dren are not as good a in <Ualydon>r Surely you n< 
noticed, that his rime schemes of ter'quite dlfforent from' ' 
other, and that, ome of thorn quite hew?4 And were you, untilnow, in possession of the Informt Hoc that some of hla lipes have a many as seventeen sylldbles?- Then turn to tbe back of that scholarly edition of. biB poems, with 
an Introduction and notes by. Herr Dokton Slbrandus Schnafnabargei sluethat Invaluable edIUon. with the Herr -Doktos name in pur< gold leaf on .. the coyer; turn t< those notes, read them through; 
they are ,the moist authoritative; they or Indispensable; you not get along without them. ' But while you are .perusing them, and finding out that the poet red, and; that his head was .really too large.-, for hls tlody, ihef clear flame of his genius will go on burning; and neither/ you;, nor Il'-n'oi 
Slbrandus 6chnafnaburgen9lus can queuch It. /
There appsais to be a gradual Shift of French politics toward the ' left. The elections held iabout two weeks ago showed some further 
gain In the number of seats held by these groups In botb JiouBes 
This does' not, meui^that. there .will be an %lmmedlate'--fall - of p the. Ppln-care-igoyernmeht, aa the various 
politicalgroups feel that the prea ent admlnlstratlon'shouldv.contlnuc in * power' ' until France ls in * stronger: flnanclol position.' A1 though there Is still a .fight between: the liberal l^it and the servative Right, these dlffereaces have been removed from. the 
ter of the Bta^e because' of the abBolute necessity, of political cooperation. to 6aye France from beinkruptcy.For the-first time a Socialist was elected as -the -President loithe Chamber. The new 'President, 
feidioand .BulSBon; ;isckn6wa-to .bea ''Locarnoistv and beac^eVa ati^qg supporter bf - Foreign ..Minister - Brland. His :elec'UCn was considered as a decided victory of the Brlandlsts over tbe Polncarlsts.
. The differences in the politics of' the Left and the Right may be7 described briefly. The Led parties stand for Brlands Locarno policy and fcr further arrangements with 'Germany which are thought to be to the mutual benefit of .both 'countries. for stabilization.of-the.franc at its present value and, the-cutting of past losses, and'for ratification of tbe foreignu debts settlements so as to enable further Ioan6 to b^ -ralsed for the purpost of stabilization.' The Right parties are susplctous of Locarno, undecid <d as to stabilization or revalue tlon and decidedly,' opposed to debt settlement ratification until then are some revisions downward Of debt estimates.: The biggest problem o:..slop,, will .-be khe financialsitua
tion, and the success of the preopt legislature will depend largely on the outcome of this questional 
was calculated in the lobbies that ratification of tiie Berenger debt agreement has -now an ven cbancc of adoption with a large part of the Chamber abstalhlng from voting. The chances are-further Improved because France must within a short period have recourse to outside credits!'.'Whereas the Socialists made.the remarkable record' of gaining ten new seats without-the lose of one, the Radical Socialists did not fare at all . well, winning only five /and losing seven.*
Coiitrifes and Comments
General < best of
ARTS PLYS
A REVIEW J
"SPIRES"All that we had .anticipated In --Spires- seemed - to be forthcoming in the. earl) part of the pUy.- As we sac in the Little Theater we felt more and more as the play progressed that, - while : not-the great American drama, here at was an  - evening ofwrthtbe -Splresr.crashe^ to the ground in splintered .wreckageand feven . Mr. Wallace's fine directorial touch could not keep the audience from snickering at the farce of It. In a mld-Westeni city. Rev. iHsdley lires wlth his three daughters. a:repreeentatlve family group: all living normet, lote resting -lives. There Js.a, project*to.build a>new. chnrCh from the funds of a questlOasble Ainknown-doner whohas stipulated that Rev. Hadley be the minister., The architect.is. a. for* aier resident of the Iowa, who has had a lialM.with one of the >mlnIstera : daughtot living in iNew ^Tork. Another daughter Is. en-gaged 0>:a atrafgllng yottag achlEditor Carnegie Tartan.
Dear Sir: 
I noticed in laat week;? editorial colun^n a-plea, for letterd commenting on - General Assembly' an(1:1 was aronsed to sucb-'a writ
ing fervor tbat.l took pen in hand and put down the following comv. The - argument aboi Assembly appears, to my knowledge, in January of every othor year, and disappears about 
the end of February, with nothing dono -ibout.lt. On. each and overy 
occasion the same old quesUon ie. asked. "What is tho matter with General Assemblies?'* and bach time the sages of the-achool shake their beads, dolefully and reply tbat Assemblies, - like the famous Olu Gray'Mare, are'not what they'
' I have "attended "Cariwgie General' ftseemblies somewhat .regularly for the oast four' years, andin 
my opinion these affairs never did Amount to much, but they are improving each year.
It 1^ a geneinlly accepted theory that a gathering together of the
:udent jbody Is very.desirable  in  order..- to maJlntain icbool spirit. I heartily agree with thjs th.0017, and would'like to see euch - an - affair-' oven* ' two' weeks; 
'at'least'.-'''  ' !  :The chief fault to be found with Assemblies as presented this year, iteuess, of starting, and-ending.
tblrd of the' students'hasten down'to tbe music ball arriving, about a quarter of twelve, and 
ao wait for 15 minutes or til thi* rest arrive and the/proam starts;,and at the end of ey find that the lunch hour 13 about over..- Since.. adequate . taclUtlesi>f available; for, the\holdii___
lese. gatheringa' on the campus, saints that they must coutlnu
I be held-at the .-music hall. ' i.then; that the.;program.b<
lect. A visitor in the household Is one Daphne Webb, of. i wealth and few morals. When Rev.' Hadley' decldes:to; Jcave '.the church,''these people find - themselves Involved in personal and social problems, which, pyramid to a climax wherein all Is revealed to the mlnleter.It Is at ' this' .point that Mrs. Southgate proved herself less of a aiamatlst than e had given her credit for. She - built herplay with careful sensible steps tbi gave promise of a briUIant denou meat. Bxit, as if exhausted by the strain  of '' writing thus; far, she threw reason to the winds, and ended her play' in' a caprice of ideas entirely unfitted to rest of the Plot. We do not believe that human beings behave so altogether Irrationally as that. If Mrs. Southgate rewrites the denouement with & more natural resolution of the problems, Bhe will heighten the in-t immably.so jincensed at. Mrs. Southgate that we have almost forgotten Just how: tho performances
have'a very persistent Impression that Thomas Lewis was - outstanding. ' He was a-bit too exuberant at the beginning and, for some rectson, a bit awkward In love' scenes, but there was much merit 1n his performance. A great deal may be expected front bim la the future, providing gooii ' luck brlngs< him suitable parte and Intelligent' directors. Irene Koslnskl, tli toxicated 'dealist, hadmanj mlrable scenes, too.
; (Continued From 'Page One) paid. Payments may: be made to the cashier, -in. .the-registration schedule, oflaboratory.,charges Is scheduleof: laboratorv. charge ls posted - on -the - official - bulletin boards.- and is published In . the catalog of each college. . '
.. Rcgulat . day students - registering later  than the  official'dateB given above are subject to the lat* 
reglstmtlon fine of $1.00 per dav to a . .maximum of - |10.00: (Saturday and <SUnday. not Included):
Students are required to .regie.ter  Inperson.'^Registratlon.by proxy Is. not permuted. :.v.: All pflrt-tlme studentt who are registered: during the first semester . In courses., in -Normal - Artor Muelc (Group A). and who.wlsh to
started'. promptly 
twelve.-nnd end prottq&ly afrtwei ly after. Fifteen minutes Is amp! 
tim to get to tho ball from an .spot on the campus, and with as? aurance of a good prograi time t eat lunch, a much better turnout of students could be ejcpectod.
12:00); an& on ,Weekday evening* (except.Saturday) .from. 7:00 to-.-*:00 p. ml' Such students 
present at registration a schedule card for the second 'semester which has beea approved by the department giving the InstVuction. There is no re-registration in the case of electives (nlgrit counuis) or Group C subjects (Saturday courses for high'Echcol students);Ninety new-students-have slgniSIGRID ONEGIN
Mme. Slgrid Oneglp, who comes; n (^fne^.Mualc Hall .*>nTiie8; 
Iny 'evenliig, February 1, arrived 
o America recently and her. first ppcoranoe this season. was in Philadelphia, -where tbe; critics 
nee mere gave ' great praise to ier voice and pereonallty. This irtlst wbo ?Ives the program .at 
the fourth of the Edltb . Taylor homson Concerts has In; hor :rap book' copies of newspaper articles which reveal superlatives from every, city whore 6he bas-Ap^ pear ad.  In New'York, for:'in.; ataitco; -superb" appearedr.ln allost  every' review accorded  her. In Chicago sbe was called 'unbelievable" and in Bo6ton it was said that ..people would flock to her concerts if 'ahe did nothing 
ier . concerts If shething but sing scales andarpeggiop.'.' In Philadelphia was' acclaimed as : contralto ' Philadelphia has 
heard" and In Brooklyn, tho 
dc that Onegins is oi ioBt glorious and ample voices heard bere In years.1 SV Louie, Milwaukee, Minneapolis,' and every 
ither large city where she has ap poared bavo'said the most glowing things -about; her voice'.and.,,pei sonality^ but It remained' for a 
original writer In'Pittsburgh  t refer to her as* the Chaliapin', of contraltos." Mme. Onegin . will give to Pittsburgh program nui 
bers which are seldom beard ai her coming promises to attract large audience.HaecdolScene from Hercules.Where Shall I Fly.
Haydn The Wanderer.Opbolla.Piercing Eyes.Carl Loews: .Der h^lllge Franslskus. Walpur9ts-.:Nacht;  Der. Tptentanz.Charles T.: Qriffea: The. Lament of Ian the Proud. Sidney HoinweTwo Children's Songs: .(a) In? a Meadow.. lb; Mix a Pancake.?X>nlsetliRecitative and Aria: Dear'eBt Fernando trom La Favorlta.
series at Syria Mo*io BMt Frt. rday nlgbt, January.,, and BtturdMV'aftwnoon, January 29. Great interest la. manifest in. these ints,, for. they wJU also mark the 
fretvl appearances of Damrwch 
In Plttsbtirgb as . the regular: conductor . of . 'this - orchestra.. Damirh resigned.recently., to take-f:t ^at tb;'.pB;'.;.tt?^resent1 season. Tho Friday evening prowill be composed of Tschakowsky and Wagnerian numbers, 
tbe Saturday,matinee'will fea> Dvoraks 'New;.World Symphony. The programs;..
Friday Night. 
Symphony Op. 5, In E minor...... TsctmlkowBby Wagnerian nurabeTS-'
Entrance ot the Gods intio Valbaln, from ."RhelogoldJ" . 
tide of'the;Vntyr4M.'-rom' **Walkuere.""* 'Prize stfng and Dance of the. Ap> ntlces, from Die Melster*singer.1Excerpts from.. "Tristan and 
ilde Prelude Act III. Saturday Matinee. - 
Overtrure. Lo Rol dYa..... ^ .LaloSymphony in B minor. From the 
New ^erld" ..........DvorakLalderonetteBmprcss of the 
Statuettee ...........r.. RavelEntrance of the Little Fauns...
................................ PlemeLa Nult En6orcolea.Cbopin-Aubert Adagla for Strings.........LekeuMarch Slav ...;----Tschalkowsky
PLE8E3 BANQUET-AT .' ' SAUNDERS INN QUITEUNMOLE6TED! BY GOPH
(Continued From Fage One) feelings by.ewearlug. Everything considered the. sophomores art to be congratulated on their .success (?) in tbs breaking up of the ban. queL knowirg all about the affair at noon they probably thought the 
passing of C-3. was,more Important than the rescue oi thalr presi
dent.It was 11 o'clock when the plebes laden down with dlsbeB. 
spoons, and. similar trophys arrived -homo. The nlghts-enter.talnmenr -fUrniehed many '.with; plenty of. material to^wrtto^ta ^11 - the fellows iack home'about.''
NEW YORK SYMPHONY
' ;WalterI)amroBch', dean .of. American conductors, will bring, hla New York Orchestra lo Pittsburgh 
for the flfth palr of concerts Jn the
Intense rivalry in Interclaas rushes at John Carroll University 
resulted in the diBconuouance or classes from Wednesday to Monday; Sophomores and: freshmen, 
participants .In the rnsheb which have included numerous kidnappings! were called before the-dean to explain, the vlolstlon of .the' promises . to^.the -univprsliy>,auT -thoriiles that class' 'attendance would not be endangered by "the annual' fight between the. two
becom >urse:'-"This Isfled' their de; rolled in varlou 
an Increase'of 50 per: last year's mid-term enrollmei Many of the new students are < teriag with advance'd standing.
FORMER HEAD HOUSEHOLD
ECONOMIC DEP*T MAKES .
INTERESTING POOD SURVEY
(Continued From Page One) 
of tiie seller and the consumer., 
New York housewives must learn bow to choose and how to.prepare good-foods. And they are doing it. . Education along this line by the lieaitli Department 'and other media is helping materially.! .Not content with studying, conditions in tbe United States, Miss Cauble made a food survey of lndon at the request of Cyril Cobb,-, president of the London County Council.On one occasion," she says. In her. description of events in England. we. drove to a liouse on Pet* ticoat lane,, where I wus told, we were to stop for a glass of milk.
lethlug i aitaiIt was II nilk stallo!lo say the least.
.. . -And when I asked-.why - it < was not.-abollshdd I was told that many' 
years ago. King John-rode by tbe spot rat a moment when be'was: 
Ured andsthlrety. At (hat time it was. a field and in. it grazed seven cows.. Awoman brought'him a mug of milk. .- And he decreed, as kings had a way of dolng that foreven-there should be sevonv cows there - so that::-tired - passeraby might, stop for a glass of milk..;. Jin .the,.meantime, many^ vears 
have parsed, but the decree all stands.- and tfce. voman^who Uved nt the.ocine nbW stlU baa lhe'rlght lo keep her seven cows-aod-serve officials cant H. In: New Yoric - our .- elty - ~baa - police' power and the law can take Ua course ;That s why we can have good
 anything 
JOSEPHtt*NE0O
Store for Men and Young Fallows ,
Super-Six Shoes
$6oo
Heres the Varsity
a broad-ftoed, bluchcr-cut, gracefully-pat
terned shoe with soft.toe-boX, overweight 
tap soles and broad-flanged leather heels; 
Tan or black. . Oiie of the Super-Six models 
at $6.00.
Strate-Eight Shoes, $8.00 
Nu-Roy Shoes, $10.00 
Banister Shoes $13.00
Jiome's, Third FJor
After-shaving comfort
^ TTOW do you fit your newly-shaven 
XX face to1 the ngors of an academic 
day? Some men just wash off the lather 
with water. Others in gro^ying-numbers use 
Aqua Velva, William? new1 scientific after
shaving liquid It helps the skin retain its 
needed natural moi tufekeeps the com
fort of a William shave all <lay long. Big 
f-ounce bottles, 50c.
Williams Aqua Velvet
