The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 85, Number 10, November 20, 1984,
News
[PC network.. f. 
ISenate electionsNo money will come out of CMU, the 
DoD will be footing the bill. The consolida
tion of research programs will save the DoD 
money in the long run.
As far as getting quality people to work 
in the SEI, Habermann said, It has not 
been difficult, to recruit people here. Gyert 
said. People in the knowledge business want 
to go where there is exciicmmat, and this is 
exciting."
Cyert pushed hard for this project. He 
visited eastern Pennsylvania schools and 
government officials so that the east and 
west would not be at odds." He said that lan 
ding the SEI was a "great victory for Pitt
sburgh and Pennsylvania.
features
jobs and resumes 
Trivia contest.. .
Entertainment
Auditions. 
Forbes Gallery
Sports
Fall success story.........
Womens BB previewphoto by Olve Peersen
Dr Nico Habermann, who will direct the SEI, said there would be no problem 
recruiting people to CMU.Editorial 
SEI project

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanNovember 20, 1984
Campus-wide PC network gets started for Fall 1986
By AMY LIPKE
Tartan Staffwriter
The development of a campus-wide per
sonal computer network for deployment in 
the Fall of 1986 is progressing with the 
cooperation of the University Computation 
Center, the Information Technology Center, 
and IBM.
The research has three purposes: the 
development of a personal computer of the 
desired quality which would cost less than 
$3000; the software to go with it; and a net
working system which would connect all of 
the personal computers on carppus.
At a Tartan press conference held on Oc
tober 10, President Richard Cyert address
ed the question of the necessity of a personal 
workstation for every student, first emphasiz
ing that it has not been decided that every 
student will be required to buy a computer. 
We may treat this the way that we treat tex
tbooks, that we recommend that it be pur
chased, but also have the same thing that 
we have at the library, namely a public 
cluster...so were not going to go around 
checking students to see whether he or she 
has a computer...but they will have to 
recognize that they will have assignments 
that may have to be handled on the com
puter.
Cyert dismissed any problems of student 
resistance to purchasing a personal com
puter: There are going to be fewer and 
fewer students who are going to want to be 
without (a personal computer). Increasing
ly, its just going to be a part of the equip
ment of a professional.. .its also going to be 
something that the student will be able to 
take away from school and probably will be 
good for many more years.
Bob Cape of the University Computation 
Center asserted recently that the University 
is approaching the problem of a computer 
network with the same enthusiasm (it) has 
applied to the development of a personal 
workstation. Calling a network absolutely 
necessary he added, were working hard to 
understand all the issues and all the implica
tions.
Cape described the type of workstation in 
which the University is most interested. It 
will be a product which is not currently an
nounced. Not yet marketed by IBM, the 
ideal workstation should be able to run the 
ITC software as the higher level computer 
(in current use). The workstation would 
ideally have one million characters of 
memory, one million instructions per se
cond, and one million picture elements on 
the display.
According to President Cyert, the only 
problem regarding the personal computers 
is whether (IBM) can deliver a personal 
workstation of the size and quality that we 
want for a price of $3000 of less.
When questioned recently of the feasibili
ty of IBM coming up with such a worksta
tion, Mike Connor, IBM manager of the 
joint IBM-CMU project and Associate 
Director of the ITC, refused to project future 
possibilities. IBM does not speculate about 
its future product plans, he said. He did, 
however, affirm that another IBM product, 
the IBM pcAT, already on the market, 
would be eminently useful.
Cyert mentioned the possibility of im
plementing the IBM pcAT as an alternative 
in the event of IBMs and other companies 
failure to produce a new workstation within 
cost. The IBM pcAT is basically a more
The IBM personal computer, shown 
networking program.
powerful version of the IBM pc. It contains 
a hard disk within, and each diskette holds 
1.2 million characters (3 times the capacity 
of the standard IBM diskettes). The AT has 
two-and-a-half times the processor speed of 
the pc, and uses DOS, the pcs Disk
Photos by Rob McNicholas
here, may become obsolete in the 1986
Operating System.
The whole system, including hardware, 
software, and networking would ideally 
begin operation within two years, according 
to Cape. The University is committed to Fall 
1986 deployment.
WHERE WILL I GET THE MONEY???
Travel expenses for the holidays can be 
costly when you're a struggling CMU stu
dent. The Bookstore would like to help!
Here's all you have to do:
1) Bring us a picture of you and your family celebrating past 
holidays.
2) On the back of the picture, put your name, campus or 
local address, and phone number.
We will post ail the photographs in the Bookstore. On 
December 7, 1984 at 2:00 pm, all entries will be taken down 
and two (2) pictures will be drawn at random for cash prizes. 
Deadline for entries is December 3, 1984. Photographs are not
returnable.
FIRS T PRIZE: $100.00 
SECOND PRIZE: $50.00

---------------------------------------------------

November 20, 1984The TartanPage 3
Klepper receives Elliott Dunlap Smith Award
By KAREN CERRONI
Tartan Staffwriter
Steven Klepper, an assistant professor of 
economics and social sciences at CMU, 
received the Elliott Dunlap Smith Award for 
Distinguished Teaching and Contributions 
to Education.
The award is presented to the university 
educator who plays a leading role in 
broadening the education of technical 
students.
I feel very proud. I find it personally 
gratifying to have my teaching recognized. 
It is something that I have worked very hard 
at for a number of years, comments Klep
per about his award.
Klepper feels the award indicates that the 
university supports and encourages his high 
standards of teaching. In the faculty evalua
tions, students do not rate him as one of 
their best teachers; yet the university show
ed the interest and support to present him 
with this years award. He suggests that the 
students find his teaching style too demaning but he sincerely believes that many 
students need to be driven at this age.
His motivation stems from his college pro
fessors who he labelled miserable. 
Everything taught in class was a rehash of 
the course textbook, and he could see no 
justification for going to class. Klepper 
remembers, I felt that I could do a much 
better job; and if I was going to be critical 
of others I better be able to prove it, at least 
to myself.
The enjoyment Klepper receives from see
ing students learn a subject that they do not 
think they are capable of learning motivates 
him even more. I dont believe that students, 
especially at CMU, have the limitations that 
they set upon themselves. They just need to 
channel their work in the right direction and I believe its my job as a teacher to unlock
their motivation and effort.
To minimize the anxiety and fear that 
most students have concerning technical and 
analytic studies, Klepper avoids advanced 
mathematics. Instead, he stresses economic 
concepts and emphasizes intuitive thinking.
His classes do not consist of lecture after 
lecture; instead Klepper initiates debates 
and discussions about current economic 
issues. Often he takes a radical side or a posi
tion unpopular with the majority of the 
class. Issues include minimum wage, food 
stamps, adoption, legality of heroin and in
come tax deductions on children. He argues 
these radical positions based on economic 
logic and reason. The results are twofold.
First, it forces students to consider many 
economic arguments that people tend to 
overlook. The object of this strategy is to im
press upon the students that the issues may 
be more complicated than they realize, and 
economics may have a lot to say about how 
you can frame your own thinking about 
some of these issues/
Secondly, this teaching strategy stimulates 
students to apply economic theories and 
concepts to real life situations. Klepper sug
gests that this style of teaching is much more 
interesting and motivating for the students.
However, he is disappointed in the lack of 
excitement over big ideas, the controver
sial issues. I dont feel that the students, here 
or elsewhere, are responding at the level that 
I would like  these are radical issues that 
should generate outcry and concern.
Several times in the semester, the students 
get opportunity to stimulate a market set
ting by participating in experiments. These 
experiments are economic games for 
money designed to illustrate how simple 
economic theories can explain the economic 
interactions that the students themselves 
material in the textbook and forces them to
photo by Bob Fishel
Steven Klepper believes that students at the college level need to be driven."
at 8:30
apply economics to very real situations.
Klepper feels so confident because he has 
the support of the university. Because of 
CMUs commitment to teaching and educa
tion he does not have to compromise his high 
standards.
The Forbes Gallery
is holding a review of art work
to choose pieces for the annuo! curated show.MON., NOV. 26 
and every monday
have produced.
According to Klepper, the booklet of pro
blem sets and quizzes that he developed over 
the years is the teaching instrument from 
which the students learn the most. These
problem sets probe the students understan
ding. They teach the student how to
Review will be on November 30th 
at 6:00 pm, CFA Loge (4th Floor). 
Take elevator to 3rd floor and 
follow signs; bring work with you 
at this time.
estions?: Terri Glueck 578-4-206 
Kirk Botula 621-2790
Want to see your 
name in print?
Call x2111 today.
By YOUR NAME
Tartan StaffwriterThe Tartan began looking for new staffers 
early last week. All people interested in writing, 
production, business, photography, or any other
farpt nf npwsnanpr wrtrk shrnilH rail N91 1 1 " said

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 20, 1984
Maloney promoted to position as 
director o f alumni relations at CMU
David Maloney (r.), shown here with Charles Dunn and Frank Henry, alumni of CMU. 
Henry celebrated his 100th birthday September 28. A feature on Mr. Henry will appear 
in an upcoming Tartan.
Senate elections yield diverse group; 
14.5 percent of undergraduates vote
By KATRIN WESNER
Tartan Production Mgr.
David L. Maloney has been appointed to 
the position of director of alumni relations 
at CMU.
As director he oversees the communica
tion between the alumni and CMU.
Maloney has been at CMU for ten years. 
In 1975, he was hired as the head basketball 
coach, and as an advisor for the H&SS 
Academic Advisory Center. For eight seasons 
he coached successful PAC basketball teams, 
until last year when he was appointed 
associate director of alumni relations and 
development. He kept his position as an ad
visor because he did not want to lose touch 
with the students.
In July of this year, Maloney was named 
acting director of alumni relations, and in 
October as director. Maloney holds a 
bachelors degree from Mt. Saint Marys Col
lege, and a masters degree from Bucknell 
University.
Maloney said that the alumni relations of
fice wants to try to maintain communica
tion between the university and the alum
ni, in hopes of creating a feeling of alma 
mater, because, We need their support. If 
the alumni keep in active contact with the
By K. M. GRAY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Three additional members complete the 
search committee for the Dean of the Col
lege of Humanities and Social Sciences. Pro
fessor Clark Glymour, Head designate, 
Philosophy Department, Timothy W. 
McGuire, Deputy Dean and Professor of
university, they are more likely to support it.
Alumni support is very important to CMU 
as a private institution. In addition to finan
cial support, alumni can help with their ef
forts, for example, recruiting students, or 
serving as volunteers at activities such as 
homecoming.
Two goals of the alumni relations office 
are to increase the amount of personal con
tact our alumni have with the university, 
and to take the educationally exciting things 
that are happening here at CMU to the 
alumni. The latter can be accomplished by 
having educational seminars both on and off 
the campus.
A major effect alumni have is on 
Carnegie-Mellons reputation. People look at 
how successful CMU alumni are after they 
leave the University. There are a large 
number of Alumni who are college 
presidents; chief executive officers of com
panies and businesses; and major per
sonalities in the fields of architecture, art, 
drama, and music.
The alumni relations office runs an alum
ni awards program. Each year they honor 
alumni who have distinguished themselves 
in their professions.
Economics, Graduate School of Industrial 
Administration, and Bonnie John, Graduate 
School of Psychology, have agreed to serve 
in the committee.
The Search Committee, headed by Head 
and Professor of English Gary Waller, will 
begin the search for a new dean 
immediately.
By K. M. GRAY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Last Weeks Student Senate elections 
yielded a diverse group of Spring Semester 
representatives. Five CIT seats were claim
ed by Larry Bach, Karen Demelio, Colleen 
Harrison, Cherie Jagerski, and Michael 
King.
Diana Bianco and Bill Simmons took the 
two H&SS seats.
MCS students Daniela Cramer and Ginny Ickes will serve their first terms this 
spring, along with returning MCS Senator 
Cindy Taylor.
Christine Hynes and Suzanne Utaski will
represent CFA.
Jean Novae, who ran unopposed, will 
represent SUPA, and Warren Dorreu will 
represent GSIA.
The H&SS election had the highest voter 
turnout with 19.7 percent, followed by CIT 
(18 percent), MCS (17.4 percent), CFA (2.7 
percent), GSIA (2.7 percent) and SUPA (3 
percent).
Overall, 14.5 percent of CMU 
undergraduates voted, and 1.3 percent of 
graduate students voted.
Three new members complete 
H&SS Dean Search committee
CMU #1CAPRI PIZZA # 1
fcr Friendly Service and the Best Products 
We Use 1CC% Pure Mozzarella Cheese, 
Do ethers?
LARGE 10 CUT PIZZA 
INCLUDING 2 LITERS CF PEPSI
S3.5C
FCRLUNCH & DINNER
EAT IN CP lArt CUT
PIZZA-Z
Order your favorite 
with all the extras'
EPEE DELIVERY <S:CC PH-2:C AM 
OPEN 1 DAYS A WEEK 
3415 FORCES AVE. POH. PA, 15213 
PHONE 6S1-22C2 OP 681-22C3

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
photo by Bob Fishel 
driving or parking treacherous.snowfall
leadership conference held
Seminars give leaders new look at organizations
By RIC MEDROW
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Student leaders from 72 organizations 
were invited to attend a leadership con
ference Sunday, November 11.
Leaders were taught by specialist Rick 
Miller three reasons students join an 
organization is for power, recognition and 
association. Given that, leaders were expos
ed to ideas designed to help them and keep 
new members.
Another exercise designed to promote 
teamwork was an exercise where groups 
competed to build the ideal student union. 
Ideas from hot tubs to Top of the Triangletype restaurants emerged. But when all the 
impracticality was swept away, the impor
tant elements were a restaurant, student 
parking space and a place where all students 
could meet.
Don Hale, director of Public Relations,
spoke about the CMU image. He used slides 
from the literature CMU sends prospective 
freshmen to show what many consider a 
perfect school: French President Francois 
Mitterrands visit, the cut at springtime, 
gothic buildings.
Hale then demonstrated CMU reality: 
students before an interview, working at a 
terminal and sleeping on the cut.
The discussion then turned to some of the 
bad press CMU has recently received. Hale 
is of the opinion that the press often plays up 
CMUs bad points because it is Pittsburghs 
elite school. The best way to combat press 
derision, said Hale, is to be open.
The conference also included three other 
seminars by Miller, one by Anne Witchner, 
director of Student Activities, and a steak 
dinner for all involved. The conference was 
sponsored by Student Activities and organiz
ed by Witchner and Karen Lee.
CS&P helps employment
By BRETT MOLOTSKY
Tartan Staffwriter
Whether youre wondering about just how 
to go about preparing your resume, begin
ning to think about job opportunities for 
next summer, thinking of improving your 
performance at interviews, or just looking for 
a part-time job to give you some extra spen
ding money during the semester, the Career 
Services and Placement Center has 
something just for you.
The Job Location and Development Pro
gram, located in Warner Hall room 19, was 
organized for this purpose  to help 
students with their short-term and summer 
employment needs. As part of the Universi
tys Career Services and Placement Center, 
the Job Location and Development Program 
assists students in finding part-time jobs dur
ing the school year, summer employment, 
and even internships at businesses to help 
students with their long-term employment 
goals.
According to J. Dennis Ryan, director of 
the Career Services and Placement Center, 
the JLDP was set up three years ago to help 
students in locating part-time work, summer 
jobs, or internships as well as providing such 
worthwhile services as assistance in resume 
writing and help with skills needed to give 
j students the advantage when being inter
viewed. The JLDP posts part-time jobs that 
are available, which usually include 
everything from babysitting to computer 
programming to being Santa Claus at a local 
store.
As of last year, there were between 1200 
and 1400 students actively participating in 
the program, a . . . considerable number 
of which have been placed, according to 
continued on page 6
photo by Mike Pilewski
Rick Miller taught students to be better leaders.
Bulimia-eating disorder seen as curable
Most students look forward to holiday 
vacations as a joyful time for reunions and 
large family meals; but, for people with 
eating disorders, these instead may be times 
for confrontations, lies, and painful anxie
ty. Bulimia, which is characterized by 
binge/purge behavior, and anorexia nervosa, 
a less common but related condition of self
starvation, are dangerous epidemics affec
ting between 25-33% of college-aged women 
(also many men). Under ordinary cir
cumstances, their lives are dominated by low 
self-esteem, generalized fear, and obsessive 
thoughts about food. During the holidays, 
however, these feelings are intensified. With 
a well-thought-out plan and plenty of 
motivation, these individuals can use this 
time off to start a program for recovery.
Although the underlying causes vary, 
eating disorders typically begin for 
psychological reasons and become addictive. 
Most cases are women with unrealistically 
high expectations of achievement, especial
ly concerning their own appearance and 
weight. The initial binges might be triggered 
by specific events, such as: moving away 
from home, rejection by a lover, or family 
The behavior often starts as a way
of dieting or in reaction to a failed diet. It 
becomes a numbing, drug-like coping 
mechanism that provides instant relief for 
emotional pain or boredom. Bulimics often 
binge on several thousand calories after 
eating what they feel to be one bite too many 
at a meal. Since they have eaten more than 
they should anyway, they go ahead and 
binge, knowing that they will later force 
themselves to vomit or abuse laxatives. These 
purges confuse body signals causing ex
tremely low blood sugar levels, electrolyte 
imbalances, and cravings for more sugary 
foods. This cycle perpetuates itself, 
dangerously upsets normal digestion, and 
further complicates the original 
psychological reasons for bingeing.
Lindsey Hall, who cured herself after nine 
years of bulimia has co-written three 
booklets on this subject, which are used in 
more than 500 colleges and universities. She 
writes in her first booklet, Eat Without Fear, 
I binged up to four and five times a day 
after the third year. There were very few days 
without one. My vision often became blurry 
and I had intense headaches. What used to 
be passing dizziness and weakness after a 
binge had become walking into doorjams 
and exaustion. My complexion was poor and 
I waf often constipated. Large blood blisters 
appeared in the back of my mouth. My teeth 
were a mess. The research study on which 
her third booklet, Beating Bulimia, is bas
ed, documents other bulimics who were 
hospitalized, had miscarriages, and spent 
more than 20 years struggling with food. 
Between 7-9% die due to cardiac arrest, 
kidney failure, or impaired metabolism.
Lindsey Halls booklets are only 
available by mail from: Gurze Books, Box 
20066U, Santa Barbara CA 93120 T.urze 
Books. The bulimia set of three costs 
$13.25 including postage and handling.
Dr. Jean Rubel, president of Anorexia 
Nervosa and Related Eating Disorders 
(ANRED), a non-profit organization which 
serves as a national clearing-house of infor
mation and referrals, observes that college 
students commonly fall victim to food pro
blems, Students are vulnerable to a cycle 
of stress inherent in the structure of the 
school year. There is a separation from home 
and all that is familiar, anxiety resulting 
from having to make new friends and learn 
ones way around campus, plus dasswork
and studies which pile pressure on top of 
stress. All the while, women are being 
vigilant about presenting to the world an im
maculate, thin appearance. Many students 
resort to disordered eating in efforts to gain 
some peace and release.
That student returns home, perhaps still 
preoccupied with problems at school, to find 
a different set of pressures and expectations 
awaiting. To further complicate matters, 
holidays are traditionally times of feasting. 
For someone who is already terrified of 
weight gain, who is craving rich food after 
a period of dieting, the prospect of spending 
time around large amounts of easily 
available food is frightening indeed.
Students with food obsessions can use the 
holiday break from school to begin to get 
better, through recovery is rarely quick or 
easy. Dr. Rubel recommends that students 
be aware of the pressures awaiting them at 
home and make detailed plans for how to 
cope with them. They should set reasonable 
goals for themselves, such as planning non
food related activities, perhaps by setting a 
limit for weight gain, or avoiding specific in
cidents that may trigger binges. She adds, 
If you do slip back into a food behavior, re
mind yourself it does not mean your plan 
is not effectilve. It merely shows you a place 
to make some revisions so you can more easi 
ly achieve your goals. (ANRED, Box 5102, 
Eugene OR 97405. Include a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope.)
Most who are cured find that the commit
ment to getting better is made easier with 
the important first step of confiding in so
meone who can help. Vacation time may 
provide the perfect setting for getting sup
port from friends or family members, who 
are often understanding and compassionate, 
despite the sufferers fears of rejection. 
However, even with the help of loved ones, 
overcoming bulimia or anorexia nervosa 
may require professional therapy and 
medical treatment. Without proper atten
tion, the behavior does not suddenly end 
and can continue for a lifetime.
Lindsey Halls bulimia developed into a 
daily habit during her college years, and now 
she regularly speaks to students who are 
struggling with food. She emphasizes her 
success at overcoming bulimia rather than 
dwelling on her suffering, I am now able 
continued on pag 6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanNovember 20, 1984
Survey shows high Tartan readership, comments given
By NEAL W. JOHNSTON
Tartan Associate Features Editor
This weeks survey went very well. People 
couldnt have been nicer; I appreciate that. 
Only 50 people were contacted for this poll 
(randomly chosen from the C-book).
Since no suggestions came my way, I 
thought of some questions that might in
terest the student body. Remember, any 
issues or suggestions that you would like to 
see the student body polled on can be sent 
to The Tartan.
The first question concerned whether or 
not the student would like to see a universi
ty core implemented:
yes no
36% 64%
Concerns about this core, still in the 
developmental stage, centered around the 
idea that all students would be required to 
take certain courses. As the poll shows, not 
too many students were thrilled with the 
idea.
The next question dealt with the use of 
personal computers. Since some of my
CSStP: time to 
look for job
continued from page 5
Ryan. In order to register for the program, 
students need only go to the Job Location 
and Development Program office and talk 
to the programs director, Judi Mancuso. 
After filling out a short registration form 
which asks about the type of employment 
the student is looking for, Judi will talk to 
the student about getting tfie process started. 
This includes help with resumes and tips 
about job interviews. And according to Man
cuso, its time to start preparing those 
resumes and begin looking for summer jobs.
SENIOR CLASS CLUB PRESENTS
PUB preconstruction PREVIEW
PREVIEW....................................THE AMBIENCEPREVIEW. DELICACIES FROM THE MENU PREVIEW.. .STUDENT ENTERTAINMENT
TIME: Friday November 30th, 
4:00 to 6:00
PLACE: The Never To Be The 
Highlander Room
Its been a long time coming
join us!!!!!
Seniors Only
The final fall free roll took place this past Sunday.
Comments include the following: no info for 
grad studentsthe election issue was a 
joke all those letters to the Editor are 
unnecesssary  the crossword puzzle is fun  
some articles too biased or opinionated  
have articles on outside events, activities, and 
other campuses.  include more ads for
 People should stop criticizing the 
so much. Entertainment should be
 please include personals like 
-all I read is sports the carhave more.  cut down the 
number of columns.  opinions are too
 the paper is too radical. it doesnt 
.reflect the students ideas. only a
select few run the paper; they constantly air 
their opinions and no one elses.
Thank you for these comments and con
structive criticisms. Well take them into account for future issues of the paper. 
Remember, this isnt the definitive survey 
by professionals. Percentages could 
one way or the other.
Questions for the last issue will include 
opinion on the SEI, obtaining a job over 
Christmas vacation, and interest in your 
club.
Friends help 
end disorder .
friends, not from CMU, believe that all of 
us on campus own PCs, I thought Id check
it out:
have have not
10% 90%
The main reason those people dont own 
computers is that they are priced too high. 
For those who dont have PCs I asked 
whether or not they would use one if it sud
denly appeared in their room.
would use would not use
91% 9%
It just goes to show  some people still have 
no use for the computer.
For a last question, I thought it ap
propriate to ask if the student read The Tar
tan and if there were any comments on the 
paper:
continued from page 5
to enjoy growing, touching, tasting, smell! 
ing, and eating food without the temptation 
to binge. Ms. Hall asserts, The best j 
Christmas present that people with eating ; 
disorders can give themselves is to make a ! 
devoted effort to end their food obsessions.' f 
For more information, contact: Leigh I 
Cohn, Publisher, Gurze Books, RO. Box f 
20066U, Santa Barbara, CA 93120, (805) j 
687-7922 or 682-0956.

---------------------------------------------------

November 20, 1984The TartanPage 7
Delta Upsilon celebration
Fraternity holds 150 anniversary events; mayor declares "Delta Upsilon Day"
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Staffwriter
The Sigma Tau chapter of Delta Upsilon 
at CMU celebrated its 150th anniversary 
November 4. In honor of this, Mayor 
Richard Caliguiri declared that date Delta 
Upsilon Day in Pittsburgh.
They celebrated by having a dinner 
homecoming weekend at the top of the 
Triangle restaurant. Present were 155 
brothers, alumni and CMU dignitaries.
DU was founded at Williams college by 
Anson Hobard in 1834. This original
chapter had 30 members, which is only two 
more than this years CMU pledge class. In 
1905 DU, the first fraternity on campus here 
at CMU, was know as the Pioneer Tech Club. 
In 1906 they actually became a chapter of 
Delta Upsilon proudly displaying the old 
gold and sapphire blue.
Tom Koehler, anniversary event coor
dinator and Dan Chow, DU president, cite 
DU as being the only non-secret fraternity 
on campus. All meetings are open to anyone. 
DU is distinguished also by their 2.95 QPA 
(the highest on campus), and the fact that
they were the first fraternity to wear their 
Greek letters on their shirts.
DU has a reputation as a friendly and 
diverse fraternity. Their alulmni include
CMU; Frederic Hauck, a current shuttle 
astronaut; Edgar Bergen, ventriloquist; 
James Garfield, ex-president; John Warner 
ex-President of CIT; Thurman Munson,
Army ROTC to 
trivia contest
The Sigma Tau chapter of Delta Upsilon
Hugh D. Young, a physics professor here at baseball star and Kurt Vonnegut Jr; author.
sponsor CMU 
this spring
is provided below). Entry forms may also be 
picked up or submitted at the Really Official 
Trivia Contest booths in Doherty and Baker 
Halls from November 26-30 (10:30-3:30), or 
sent via Campus Mail to Army ROTC. En
tries must include the $10 entry fee (checks 
payable to CMU Army ROTC). Any type of 
team is welcome: an academic department, 
a club, a fraternity, a sorority, or just a group 
of friends. CMU undergraduate graduate 
students, faculty, and staff are eligible, but 
only the first 96 entries will be accepted. 
Those affiliated with Army ROTC cannot 
participate. Each team must select a captain 
whose phone number and address must be 
on the entry form. Upon our receiving the 
entry form, a copy of the Tournament Rules 
and Game Rules will be sent to the Team 
Captain.
On January 14, 1985, a special meeting 
will be held. All teams must have a represen
tative at this meeting. The rules of the game 
will be discussed and demonstrated 
Arrangements for the first round of matches 
will be discussed at this meeting. Results of 
the contest will be posted in the Tartan. Any 
questions may be directed to Captain 
William Pupke at x2205 or x2196, Cadet 
Thomas Galvin at 682-8526, or Cadet Scott 
Bronner at x4218.
Which of the following is not a 
sweepstakes term?
A-Chute B-Doing Windows 
CTransition D-The Mall
The answer is DThe Mall is the section 
of campus between Baker/Porter and 
Doherty/Wean Hall.
Campus trivia questions, like the above, 
will be part of the challenging Really Of
ficial Trivia Contest. Other categories in
clude Science, Engineering,
Sports-(-Entertainment, Current Events, 
Geography, and History. Sponsored by CMU 
Army ROTC, this competition will take 
place in the early weeks of Spring Semester. 
All questions will be researched by CMU Ar
my ROTC Cadets. Teams composed of four 
people will challenge other teams head-tohead in a single elimination tournament. 
They will be competing for the top prize, an 
RCA VCR unit as well as trophies award
ed to the top team. The competition will be 
held from the third week in January through 
the the second week in February. Trivia com
petitions similar to this have,been held at 
campuses around the nation with great 
success.
To enter this competition, get a team of 
4 to 6 players and fill out an entry form (one
Really Official 
Trivia Contest
OFFICIAL ENTRY FORM 
ENTRY RULES
y
1. This contest is open to all CMU students, faculty, and staff. However, 
students enrolled in Army ROTC courses for either the Fall or Spring Semesters 
are ineligible.
2. The Entry Fee is $10 per team and MUST be submitted with this form. 
Checks are payable to CMU ARMY ROTC.
3. Entries must be received by January 11,1985. However, only the first ninetysix entries will be accepted. Entries may be sent by Campus Mail to ARMY 
ROTC.
4. A copy of the Tournament & Game Rules will be sent to the Team Captain 
after receipt of this form.
5. A representative from each team must attend the meeting of January 14, 
1985, to discuss tournament rules and set-up.
TEAM NAME
Roster (4 minimum, 6 maximum)
1________________________________
2______________________________
3. ___________________________
4 .__________________________
5. ______________________________
6. _____________________________
Team Captain 
Address ____
I Phone No.
Get a head start on Santa...
The Bookstore will be open SUNDAY, 
DECEMBER 2 from 12:00 until 5:00 pm
A special collection of gifts to please everyone on your 
Christmas list! At your CMU Bookstore you'll find a wonder
ful and appealing selection of books and other gifts galore. 
Stop in.

---------------------------------------------------

Skibo Ballroom 8:00 pm 
Tuesday. November 27* SnnmnrpH hv StuHpnt ASponsored by Student Activities

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Busch Gardens to hold auditions in
The road to fame for aspiring performers 
in 17 eastern and midwestem cities may well 
begin when talent scouts from Busch 
Gardens, The Old Country, hold auditions 
beginning Nov. 17 for 240 entertainers, 
technicians and stage managers for the 
European-themed parks 1985 season.
Busch Gardens Entertainment Manager
Color
Forbes artist
By LYNNE M. SCHATZ
Special to The Tartan
This weeks exhibition at the Forbes 
Gallery, entitled Array of Color, features an 
unusually diverse set of work. Artists Linda 
Fitzmorris, Coleen Gloeckner, and Laurie 
Roberts are displaying clothing, metals, 
sculptures', and prints. Central to all three 
artists work is the bold use of color. The 
opening is this evening from 7:00 to 9:00.
Linda Fitzmorris designs clothes using her 
own handwoven cloth. I consider my work 
more of an abstraction of clothing, says Fitz
morris. I like to design something that is 
asymetrical to give the feeling of flow from 
one side of the body to the other.
Fitzmorris frequently uses deep blues, 
reds, and blacks in her designs, and creates 
each piece to be unique. I learn from each 
piece to the next, says Fitzmorris, who ap
proaches each design by deciding on the col
or, shape, and feel that she wants from the 
garment, then weaving her fabric to fit that 
feeling.
Coleen Gloeckner displays paintings, 
sculptures, drawings and relief prints. 
Gloeckners prints are usually figurative, and 
are often accompanied by the artists poetry.
The prints are in some ways illustrations 
of the poems, says Gloeckner. 1 relate the 
poem to the visual image to get people to 
think about a specific theme. Im really trylng to bring an awareness to certain inLinda Searls and her staff are looking for 
singers and dancers for the parks German, 
Italian, Country and Broadway-style shows; 
musicians and variety artists, actors and ac
tresses, technicians and stage managers.
The Old Country is rapidly establishing 
itself in respected circles as a leading farmsystem for the high-powered reaches of
Broadway, television and stage, according to 
Searls. Almost every year, one of our per
formers hits the big time, she said. Many 
Busch Gardens alumni have been in Broad
way productions, commercials and in ma
jor motion pictures.
According to Searls, young performers 
often think the best route to success is directPittsburgh
ly via the streets of Los Angeles or New York. 
That simply isnt the case, she said. Busch 
Gardens performers enter a fast-paced en
vironment in which they can truly test their 
talents and rise to the maximum.
In addition, park entertainers often make 
TV appearances, perform at special events 
and appear in a variety of parades and 
shows.
Busch Gardens six-month season gives 
young performers invaluable experience and 
a first-hand opportunity to discover if their 
long-range career goals are in show business, 
said Searls.
In addition to the valuable exposure, per
formers can also take advantage of free 
classes in all forms of dance, vocal instruc
tion and instrumental arranging; participate 
in choral, band, jazz and dance concerts; 
and take part in every stage of fully 
theatrical productions.
Auditions will be conducted on a firstcome, first-served basis in Harrisonburg, 
Va., Richmondy Va., Greensboro, N.C., 
Winchester, Va., Pittsburgh, Pa., Columbus, 
Oh., Cincinnati, Oh., Bloomington, Ind., 
Champaign-Urbana, 111., Washington, D.C., 
Philadelphia, Pa., New York City, N.Y., 
Boston, Mass., St. Louis, Mo., Chicago, 111., 
Atlanta, Ga. and Williamsburg, Va. 
Performers attending the auditions should 
be at least 18 years of age and be available 
for full-time seasonal employment. Audition 
presentaton should be limited to two minutes 
but performers should be prepared to pre
sent additional material upon request.
The entertainment shows staged at Busch 
Gardens are performed an average of six 
times daily, with as many as 400 total per
formances during the parks season.
WRCT TOP 10
1. Hole
Scraping Foetus Off The Wheel 
(Some Bizarre)(UK)
2. The Big Express 
XTC (Geffen)
3. Plan 9
Plan 9 (New Rose)(FR)
4. Magnetic Flip 
Birdsongs Of The Mesozoic 
(Ace of Hearts)
5. Too Tough To Die 
The Ramones (Sire)
6. The Red Hot Chili Peppers 
The Red Hot Chili Peppers (EMI)
7. I Often Dream Of Trains 
Robyn Hitchcock (Midnight)(UK)
8. The Wonderful World Of. . .
The Fall (Beggars Banquet)(UK)
9. Remote Luxury
The Church (Warner Brothers)
10. Welcome To The Pleasure Dome 
Frankie Goes To Hollywood (Island)
The Broadway-style musical, Hats Off To Hollywood, performed at Busch Gardens, The Old Country, in Williamsburg, Va., 
is a first step to broadway and national touring companies for many young hopefuls. Busch gardens is auditionsing talent for 
its 1985 season in 17 Eastern and Midwestern cities, including Pittsburgh.
display "Array of Color"
cidents. colors, one in purples and blues, the other
Roberts believes we arent trained to use in reds and oranges. The mood of the piece 
ingenuity, but trained to make a fit solution. changes with the colors, exhibiting Roberts 
Roberts attempts to show in her art that real desire never to limit myself to one decision. 
life problems never work out that easily. Its Array of Color runs at the Forbes Gallery
the idea of the square peg in the round hole, untn November 25. Gallery hours are 
says Roberts. Wednesday to Friday, 11:00 a.m. to 6:00
Energy, movement, and color are integral p.m., and Saturday and Sunday, noon to 
to Roberts work. In Falling in and Out, 5:00. The Gallery will be closed on 
Roberts repeats the same image in different Thanksgiving.
J. Geils Band took top honors at AB Lecture/AB Coffeehouse Airband competition Saturday, November 10.

---------------------------------------------------

Friday, December 7, 1984 
6:30 pm 
Skibo Ballroom 
Carnegie-Mellon University
Price:
$9.00 non CMU Students 
$7.00 CMU Students
(S3.00 credit u.-ill /* giz-en 
to contract folders; total 
amount may be subtracted 
from Valadine Accounts) 
$4.50 Children
Entertainment will be provided 
by the Chamber Choir and 
Friends . . . Ye guests arc invited 
to urar traditional clothe.
Tickets on sale at Skibo Infor
mation Desk starting Monday, 
November 26 through Wednesday, 
December 5 (Monday through 
Friday, 9:00am-5:00pm)
Event sponsored by the Office of 
Student Activities For more 
information, call 378-2107

---------------------------------------------------

FALL SPORTS REVIEW
Freshman hitter Chris Coleman prepares to unleash a serve during the Pennwood West Conference Volleyball Championships.
By PAUL MASALSKY
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
The words on the cover of CamegieMellons 1984-85 athletic schedule say it all: 
Committed to academic and athletic ex
cellence.
CMUs 1984 sports teams fell just short of 
perfection in maintaining this traditon of exellence. Four of the six teams that competed 
this fall captured league championships, and 
the remaining two finished in second place. 
It was the most successful fall season ever at 
CMU, and Athletic Director Jim Banner 
couldnt be more pleased.
Weve anticipated this type of perfor-' 
mance for some time, said a smiling Ban
ner. Given the great amount of academic 
pressure here, the pressure on the athletes 
to compete is tremendous. But they work ex
tremely hard, and the season record reflects 
this work.Soccer and volleyball contribute
In the past, CMUs fall season has always 
produced two or three league champions, 
with several other teams finishing near the 
top of their leagues. This year, the rise to 
power of the soccer and volleyball teams 
completed Camegie-Mellons domination of 
the Presidents Athletic Conference (mens 
sports) and Pennwood West Conference 
(womens sports). In addition to soccer and 
volleyball, the womens tennis and mens 
cross country squads won their respective 
league titles, and the football and field' 
hockey teams each finished in second place. 
The overall record of all six teams was an 
amazing 51-23-1, a .680 winning percentage.
Camegie-Mellons academic reputation 
is beginning to attract bright student 
athletes, commented Banner. The students 
are going on to practice their skills on the 
field of play and becoming champions at the 
same time.
More recognition for women
Womens Assistant Athletic Director Joan 
Maser sees the success of the fall womens 
program as a step toward greater recogni
tion for womens sports at CMU. Next year, 
all of the womens sports teams will be mov
ing to the PAC, a definite step up  for all 
the teams.
Weve put a great emphasis on womens 
sports here and theyve grown tremendous
ly, remarked Maser. This (the two cham
pionships) is just a push to get us going a 
bit higher. Combined with the move into a 
more competitive conference, we hope to 
gain the reputation that the mens sports 
have attained at CMU.
For the womens tennis team, capturing 
the PWC Championship was a surprise, but 
it was nothing new. The team has won the 
championship trophy six of the last seven 
seasons. For the womens volleyball team, the 
league title was the sweet smell of success 
that Coach Jane Fisk hadnt tasted for many 
years.
Our volleyball program has improved so 
much, said Fisk, who is also CMUs fencing 
coach. We have many more players with 
past experience and better technique, and 
it shows.
After concluding an outstanding 17-7 
season, the team went on to capture the 
championship at the PWC Tournament at 
Camegie-Mellon. After playing inconsistent
ly in the opening round of the tournament, 
CMU overwhelmed the competition with 
four straight victories in the playoff round. 
The Tartans eliminated first-seeded Bethany 
and second seeded Washinton and Jefferson 
after experiencing difficulty with both teams 
in the preliminary competions.
Coach Fisk attributed the teams success 
in the tourament to the gradual improve
ment of the players over the regular season. 
Everyone improved greatly, commented 
Fisk. We learned to cover our territory, read 
the other teams strategies, and worked on 
improving our depth.
The Tartans were blessed with the additon 
of several highly talented freshmen. Chris 
Coleman, Manica Zalevsky and Marianne 
Smith played exceptionally throughout the 
season to provide crucial points when they 
were needed. Veterans Sue Jordan, Karen 
Kmetz and Captain Janet Stahira provided 
hustle and strong leadership.
The teams most satisfying regular season 
victory came against Robert Morris College. 
A Division I team, Robert Morris truly tested 
the depth and endurance of CMUs nine 
player line-up by playing the Tartans toe-totoe for five games. The rallies seemed to go 
on and on, said Coach Fisk.
The womens tennis team, under the 
guidance of Coach Minda Fall, was a sur
prise winner of the PWC Tennis Tournament
The Tartans rallied with good perfor
mances to take the womens tennis title at 
the Conference Championships on Oct
ober IS at Bethany College.
at Bethany College. With outstanding play 
from first doubles team and
Liza Reed, and a strong performance by the 
second doubles team of Andrea Benowitz 
and Leslie Inglese, the Tartans edged out St. 
Francis to capture the championship crown. 
St. Francis had dominated the singles 
competition.
Coach Fall attributed her teams victory 
to hustle and determination because CMUs 
5-6 regular season mark was not as good as 
the team usually performs.
Individuals shine 
Everybody did really well in the tourna
ment because we worked toward it as the 
season went along. Our freshmen improved 
tremendously this year, which helped out a 
lot, said Fall.
The leadership of cocaptains Liza Reed 
and Laurie Arendas carried the team 
through an inconsistent regular season, and 
allowed the team to perform their best dur
ing the tournament. Daine Baumhammers 
was very strong at first singles; Darla Messick 
at second singles and Larena Miller at third 
singles provided good backup support. The 
doubles combination of Leslie Inglese and 
Andrea Benowitz was consistent throughout 
the season and flawless in the tournament.
New strategy for team
When Cross Country Coach Gary Meckley 
began coaching this years squad after los
ing seven of his top eight performers to 
graduation, he felt he had to change his 
coaching philosophy. We had a lot of new, 
talented freshmen who responded well after 
achieving mixed results in high school, com
mented Meckley. All of the runners were 
very competitive and hard working. They 
came along the way they should have dur
ing the year.
Quite simply, no one team in the Tartans 
schedule offered a true challenge during the 
regular season. The Tartans relied on their 
top five runners, who frequently finished far 
ahead of the competition, Bob Dusch, Tony 
Scarpeili, Dean Danawski, Paul Camine and 
Mark Sulecki each took turns in capturing 
the top positions. At the NCAA Eastern 
Regionals, CMU was favored to finish in se
cond place. It was only because of an injury 
to one of their top runners that the tream 
finished fifth, which was still an outstanding 
accomplishment.
Our top five performers are very talented, 
and it will probably take another year for
et. CMU was undefeated in dual meet cot petition.

---------------------------------------------------

FALL SPORTS REVIEW
Photos by:
Olve Peersen Erik Horn Mike Kelly
Evan McDonnell Mariiean Azrak

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 20, 1984
FALL SPORTS REVIEW
with PAC rival Washington and 
Jefferson.
CMU was never in the game with 
W&J, as turnover ofter turnover in the 
first half led to a 36-8 loss, second place 
in the PAC, and dropped them out of* 
the playoff race.
After an anti-climactic but tough win 
at Bethany, 27-7, CMU played what may 
have been their best game of the year 
against an undefeated Case Western 
Reserve team.
CMU put up a tough battle, taking a 
17-10 lead into the fourth quarter, but 
Case came back to win 31-17.
Boland led CMU in rushing with xxx 
yards, and Hensel threw for xxx yards. 
Roger Roble led the receivers with 26 
catches and should make academic allamerica squad.
Fifteen seniors leave this team. They 
are: Lee Andre, Scott Bachik, Harley 
Carroll, Rob Fleischman, Mike 
Garverick, Joe Glinka, Tim Griffith, 
John Herold, Mike Holodnik, Ross 
Jicomelli, Paul Scarmazzi, Jim Scarpone, Eugene (T.D.) Smith, and Dave 
Zito.
Also, next year's captains have been 
elected. They are: offenseRob Butts 
and Dave Richards, defenseMike 
Paterchak and Brad Sherwin.
Join the fight against heart disease! !
The Big Heart Classic
SUPPORT CMUS SECOND ANNUAL CHARITY BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
' /
Friday, November 30  Saturday, December 1
WESTMINSTER vs. MT. UNION 7 pm CONSOLATION GAME 1 pm
CMU vs. CASE WESTERN RESERVE 9 pm CHAMPIONSHIP GAME 3 pm
 . ' -%,  1 ^   X *
7. . 7  ..Your $2. 00 Tournament ticket will support heart research and in 
turn help those with heart disease. (One free Wendys coupon with 
every ticket) TICKETS A VAILABLE A T THE CMU GYMNASIUM!!!
continued from page 11
our other guys to come around. Its obvious 
that when one of our top five runners goes 
down it hurts, said Meckley.
During the regular season, CMUs most 
impressive win came at the Frostburg St. In
vitational Meet. The Tartans outdistanced 
a powerful Frostburg St. team 52  66 on the 
strength of Scarpellis seventh place finish 
overall. The rest of the CMU corps was right 
behind him, with Sulecki in ninth place and 
Camine, Danowski and Dusch taking places 
eleven through thirteen.
Soccer team disappointed
After leading his team to an 11  21 
regular season record and a share of first 
place in the PAC, one would think that 
Coach Nick Gaudioso would be completely 
satisfied. But after CarnegieMellons most 
successful soccer season ever, Gaudioso and 
his team were looking to make the playoffs.
When you win so much and you dont 
make the playoffs, it doesnt seem like that 
great of a season, remarked Gaudioso. In 
the middle of the season, when we knew we 
had a shot at the league title, there was on
ly one thing on our minds to make the 
playoffs. We won the league, and it almost 
didnt matter.
Frink graduates
One of Gaudiosos chores next year will be 
replacing Neil Frink, a defender who ex
ecutes every aspect of the game excellent
ly. Frink is the favored candidate to win 
league MVP honors at the PAC coaches 
conference to be held this week. He finish
ed the season with 17 total points, an excep
tional total for a defender, 
ecutes every aspect of the game excellent
ly. Frink is the favored candidate to win
league MVP honors at the PAC coaches 
conference to be held this week. He finish
ed the season with 17 total points, an excep
tional total for a defender.
There is no doubt that Neil Frink won 
some games for us this year. Those kind of 
players dont just come down the road every 
day, said Gaudioso. Frink has attained 
all  conference honors for the past four 
years, and has captained the team for the 
last three.
individual successes
Carnegie Mellon outscored its op
ponents by a margin of 42 10 in 1984, due 
to the prolific goal scoring of Charlie 
Lockhead, Doug Anderson and Alan Mayr. 
The defense of Caleb Corkery, Kevin Jung, 
and Ted Anderer kept opposing players away 
from Sam Montague, who compiled a 0.74 
goals against average.
We have a variety of people who can 
score goals, and it makes a big difference. 
Our scoring is spread out, which gives us the 
advantage over other teams with only one 
or two scorers.
The most uplifting victory of the season 
came against league powerhouse Bethany, 
PAC champs in 13 of the last 14 years. The 
1  0 victory was called the biggest soccer 
upset of the season. Mayr scored off an assist 
from Owen Ranta and Sam Montague turn
ed away eight Bethany shots on goal.
The fall sports season was one that pro
vided much excitement for players and spec
tators alike. The performance of the four 
championship teams is proof that CMU 
students are capable of success in many areas 
other than academics.
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan News Editor
The question: is a 6-3 season a bad 
year in any sense? The answer: No.
Tartan fans have been spoiled by the 
domination of the 1983 CMU football 
team, by the success of Chuck Klausing, and by the team's past records. 
However, one must remember that a 6-3 
record and second place in the con
ference are nothing to sneeze at.
CMU's season was up and down. An 
opening game victory over Duquesne 
was led by a defense that held star back 
Pedro Bowman to under 60 yards. A 
close game over DU was Just how last 
year had started.
Game two brought on Division l-AA 
Bucknell, a perennial loser until this year 
brought a 5-4 record. Bucknell was big
ger, stronger, faster. A CMU victory 
would almost assure a playoff berth in 
the second week of the season. CMU 
made a few mistakes, and Bucknell 
jumped on them to the score of 42-7.
The Tartans swept through four PAC 
opponents led by the offense. Long 
breakaway runs by T. D. Smith, the 
passing of Mike Hensel and the short 
bursts of control by Vic Borland and 
Tony Collaros led the way. CMU was 
ranked tenth going into their matchup

---------------------------------------------------

FALL REVIEW
Pull-out section
Pages 11-14
IM REPORT
More playoffs begin
Page 16
COLLEGE HOOPS 
Bozic previews BB
Page 17
coach brings new philosophy
idl takes helm of women's basketball team
DON EGGERT
$ports Editor 
ie philosophy of Gerri Seidl, Camegielllons new womens basketball coach, is 
It expressed in her own words: Im puteverything I have into this, and I extt that back [from my players].
)ne example of the everything that Seidl 
Cutting into the team is the videotaping 
does of the team, using her own equipit. Coach Seidl explained, I did this 
n, my high school team. Theres nothing 
Bter than seeing yourself on tape, whether 
 re doing something right or wrong. 
idl pointed to the teams improvement 
eak-side help during scrimmages as an 
pie of how taping can help. She addId like to use it more as an individual 
. Ive already taped some players shots. 
leidl is also developing a recruiting profor the team, something that did not 
t before she arrived. By heavily 
iting, especially local talent, she hopes 
lengthen the team in upcoming years, 
ne last major improvement the new 
Ich has brought is the development of a 
p:-round conditioning program for her 
ers. Seidls program will include weight 
ning, running, and off-season 
itioning.
idl looks at the upcoming season as a 
itional year. She added, We may be 
gling initially, but we will become bets we get game experience under our
Two team leaders who already have plen
ty of game experience are senior point guard 
Laurie Arendas and senior forward Michelle 
Schlegel. Seidl described Arendas as the 
leader on the court, and said she will look 
to Schlegel for outside scoring and working
Other players with key roles will be junior 
Nancy Difulio, a shooting guard; sophomore 
forward Stephanie Claudy, who Seidl says 
will step up and help the team on the in
side; and sophomore forwards Donna Nyzio 
and Christi Munn. Seidl said Nyzio has proed Munn the best defensive player on the 
team ... very aggressive.
The biggest change that spectators will see 
in this years team is on defense, where Seidl 
is installing a man-to-man as the basic 
defense. With the man-to-man, you can
Womens basketball coach Gerri Seidl (center) instructs her team during a scrimmage against Glenville State. The Tartans open 
their home season one week from Thursday.
e Tartans lose dose game, but hope to regroup
JOHN FRIEDMANN
|n Stoffwriter
{f
Vere much better than our record shows
be.
[hen CMU Hockey Coach Roger Olei said this after his team fell to Indiana 
rsity of Pennsylvania by a score of 3-2 
aturday, he in effect summed up the 
n thus far for the club. The Tartans 
played solid hockey, but the sparkle 
elped them to a league-leading 20-3 
d last year seems to be missing so far 
reason for the
Even though the season is off to a rocky 
start, none of the team is worried. Coach 
Oledeckei is positive and even hopeful. I 
feel that this teams fortunes are definitely 
on the upswing,  he explained. Basically, 
weve installed a system thats new to these 
guys and as soon as they become consistent, 
the opposition will know were around. 
Part of the reason for the players slowness 
in adapting to Oledeckeis changes may be 
that, after two years of being guided by an 
alumnus, the Tartans played without a coach 
last year. Explains senior defenseman Ted 
Dawson, The captains just took charge last 
We taught and learned from each
photo by Dewey Rieder
was stopped, the Tartans took this faceoff near the IUP goal. The Tartans 
a close defeat by the score of 3-2.
other. Another factor may be that over half 
the team is composed of seniors, including 
two graduate siudents, and they might show 
more reluctance to new regiment than a 
younger team.
Despite their subpar showings in they 
previous three games, the hockey team 
thought it had a good chance to defeat IUP 
based on, previous experience if nothing 
else. Over the years, CMU has given us a 
lot of trouble, admitted the IUP head 
coach.
The Tartans, however, looked unim
pressive in the opening period, and the 
Chiefs took advantage of a powerplay at 6:39 
and took an early 1-0 lead. Before the goal 
was scored, CMU goalie Bob Kosakowski 
made a pair of excellent saves, but the Tar
tans were unable to clear the puck from the 
goalies crease, precipitating the score.
It was a different hockey CMU hockey 
team that took the ice in the second and 
third periods. This team skated and handl
ed th puck well, and checked agressively. 
Aggressiveness paid off early in third period 
as Marty Borman, a freshman whose reputa
tion as a scoring threat won him a starting 
spot, took a pass from Bob Koch and laced 
it into the IUP net to ties the game. Just over 
three minutes later, the Tartans were in the 
lead, thanks to a Paul Russo score, with Eric 
Sprey on the assist.
Unfortunately, the CMU defense was not 
as strong as the offense. The Chiefs came 
charging back to take away the 3-2 victory 
by scoring two goals late in the game, in
cluding a slapshot from the Tartans blue 
line
One possible reason for the late collapse 
was the fatigue of the team. The Tartans on
ly had eleven players, at the rink, exactly 
enough for two lines and a goalie, while IUP
had 17. In fact, due to injuries, CMU had 
only three defensemen, forcing a Tartan 
wing on one line to switch to defenseman, 
consequently playing out of position.
Depth has been one of the squads 
primary problems this year. Many of last 
years players found their time precious and 
have not been attending practices and games 
as often this year or have quit the team en
tirely. A side effect of this problem is that 
Coach Oledeckei now does not have the lux
ury of preset lineups, and is often forced to 
construct makeshift lines out of the players 
he has available on any given day.
Injuries have also decimated the Tartans, 
who presently have three players of their 
already small squad who are hurt. One in
jury that has particularly stung is standout 
forward Rob Katz. His return at the new 
year is expected to significanlty increase 
CMUs offensive output, which so far this 
season has been short of spectacular.
The club has scored 7 goals in their four 
games to their opponents 20, an average of 
less than two a game.
Despite these somewhat depressing 
statistics, there is a silver lining in three of 
the CMU defeats. Only the 3-1 home opener 
loss to Duquesne counts in their divisional 
record, thus barely denting the Tartans 
playoff hopes, which remain very much alive 
with sixteen games yet to play. In fact, the 
Tartans, their sluggish start not withstan
ding, have to be considered a favorite, along 
with the Dukes, to emerge as champions of 
their division of the Western Pennsylvanisa 
College Hockey League (WPCHL).
The hockey club now takes a two week 
holiday break, after which they will start the 
season afresh with a 1:00 pm home game 
against Slippery Rock State College at the 
Lakeview Ice Rink in Butler.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanNovember 20, 1984
More intramurals...SAE takes water polo; volleyball finals begin
By DON EGGEKT
Tartan Sports Editor
In IM finals action this week, undefeated 
SAE topped Phi Kappa Theta for the water 
polo championship. Chess and tennis finals 
have also been held, but results were not 
available from the IM office. Meanwhile, 
playoff action is beginning in team 
volleyball.
In exchange for popcorn during produc
tion last Sunday night, The Tartans Sports 
Editor agreed to print the following: during
IM Bowling for A Phi O (the Popcorn 
Society), Gregg Wolff scored a stunning 
upset, defeating Gil Rosenthal by a four pin 
margin, 153-149. Other sports now in action 
include soccer and team racquetball.
Sports entries due at the IM Office today 
by 4:30 pm include three person volleyball, 
backgammon, and darts.
The next meeting of the Intramural 
Board will be Thursday, December 6, at 
12:30 pm, in the IM Office (Room 101 
Gym).
Team Racquetball 
Majors
1. No-Names 3  0
2. Double Fault 2  0
3. DTD 1-0
4. Boss Hall 2 2  3
5. Pi Lambda Phi 0  2
6. Beta 0  3
Minors & Intermediates
1. KSA 6-0
Nerds 51
3. Phi Kappa Theta 3  2
4. March of Folley 2  3
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 1  3
6. DU A 0-4
7. DU B 0-4
Team Table Tennis 
Majors A
1. Pi Lambda 2  0
Theta Xi 1-0
KSA 2-1
Schlag Dynasty 2  2
5. The Unknown 0  2
6. Boss Hall 0-2
7. Team X 0-0
Minors B
1. The Quiche-Eaters 2  0
Diners Club 1  0
3. Kingsmen 1  2
4. Phi Kappa Theta 01
5. A Phi O Lobsters 0  0
5. ATO 0-1
All standings are unofficial, and appear as 
reported to The Tartan by the IM Office.
1. Class of 88
2. Coachs All
3. ATO
4. Heinys
M
Stars
Team Volleyball 
Majors
N
2  0 1. Silicon Volley Guys
1-2 2. Net Worth
1-2 3. Theta Xi-A
0-2 4. DTD
Intermediates
JKL
1. MI Bio3-11. Busters3-01. Physics-Grads
2. GSIA-Mahoney2-02. ASO2-02. Hird
3. Beta2-03. The Maulers2-13. Hammers
4. A Team1-34. DU2-24. SCF
5. GSIA-Fitz0-45. Doherty-C0-25. Theta Xi-B
6. Pi Lam0-46. Challengers
1. Flintstones
2. Kenshaft
3. Megs
4. Hartman
5. D Tower
6. Hurricanes
Minors
5-0
3-1
3-2
1-3
0-3
0-4
B
1. Dudes
2. ZBT
3. Shirleys
4. Heather & Bruisers
5. Eliminators
6. Hillel
5-0
4-1
3-2
1-3
0-3
0-4
Women (W)
1. Chi Omega
2. Kappa Alpha Theta
3. DG
Minors
Soccer
IntermediatesMajors
NASL
1.3E Troopers3-0Pele (P)1. CM-Stars
2.Pilam4-11. DU-A4-02. GSIA-Assets United
3.4th Floor Football1-12. The Assassins2-03. Bayem Mellon
4.Pika-C1-13. TDP1-14. Gargoyles
5.Donner Srs.0-24. Donner Elite1-35. Kappa-Sigma
6.DTD0  35. Zoo-A0-46. Flying Turtles
Anarchy (A)MISL
1.ZOO-B2-0Rote (R)1. SAE
2.Homoki & Friends1-01. Dynamic Rams4-12. Pika-A
3.SAE0-12. AFROTC3-13. ATO
4.D-Zine0-23. Nasty Nads2-24. 1st Year GSIA
5.The Ducks0-04. The Schlag2-35. Theta Xi-A
6.IVCF Kings Men0-05. GSIA0-36. XO
1. DU B
2. Warm Leatherette
3. Chesga
4. Dons Slashers
5. Theta Xi-B
6. Gamers Friends
Confusion (C)4-0
1-1
2-2
1-2
0-1
0-2
Are You Good Enough ToJoinTheBest InThe Nuclear Field?
The Navy operates the most advanced nuclear equipment in the world. 
Including more than half the nuclear reactors in 
America. The men who maintain and operate those 
reactors have to be the best. That's why officers 
in the Nuclear Navy get the most extensive and 
sophisticated training in the world.
College juniors and seniors who qualify 
for the program can earn over $900 a 
month while still in school. \
After graduation, as a Navy officer. 
you receive a year of graduate-level 
training unavailable anywhere else at 
any price. You become a highly trained 
member t*f an elite group with vital re
sponsibilities and growing career potential.
To qualify you must be a U.S. citizen between 14 and 27 years of age. 
working toward or have earned a bachelor's or master's degree. You must 
also have completed a minimum of one year each of calculus and calculusbased physics w ith a "B ' average or better.
You can submit an application as soon as you've completed your sophomore 
vear in college If you think you're good enough to join the best in the nuclear 
field, find out . Call the Naval Management Programs Office for full information.
644-6435 or Toll-Free 1-860-242*3736. In W.Va., Oh. and Md. call TollFree 1-800-245-1772 or write:
Navy Officer Programs (60)
Room 711
1000 Liberty Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222
On Campus November 26
Navy Officers Get Responsibility Fast.
HEARD??
Theres a free gift waiting for 
you at the CMU Bookstore 
when you buyThe Mystery Special
November 26th and 27th.

---------------------------------------------------

November 20, 1984The TartanPage 17
Major college action
College basketball returns to action
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Contributing Editor
Its that time of year again. Time to blow 
off work on weekends, sit down in front of 
'jhe tube, and watch what many people con
sider to be the most exciting sport around. 
No, not the Boys of Winter, Hot Legs, or any 
professional sport for that matter, Im talk
ing about college hoopsA1 McGuire, Bil
ly Packer, Digger Phelps, Louie Cameseca, 
Pat Ewing, Efrem Winters, et al.
Its time to start thinking about what team 
will be number one. Will Georgetown 
repeat? Can Illinois come on strong, retur
ning four starters from last year? What will 
DePaul be like without Ray Meyer? Whats 
he best conference in college basketball? 
The ACC? Big East? Big Ten? Pac 10? Who 
will be in the final four in Kentucky come 
March? Is North Carolina in danger of be
ing absent from the tournament for the first 
time in a decade? Stay tuned, sports fans  
these and other questions will be answered 
n the next four months.
Lets take a look at some of the con
ferences, teams and players to watch this 
ear.
The Big East has made a name for itself, 
oasting the national champion after only 
ive years of existence. Georgetown, St. Johns 
nd Syracuse are all top national teams, with 
illanova, Pittsburgh and Boston College 
ot far behind. Georgetown has a good shot 
t doing what no one has done since the 
Wooden/UCLA era, repeating as 
champions. With Ewign electing to 
in college and people like Michael 
David Wingate, Horace Broadnax 
Bill Martin all returning (Michael 
is ineligible to play due to academic
difficulties), the Hoyas are definitely the 
team to beat right now. Of course, with 
players like Chris Mullin and Bill Wennington returning also, Camesecas Redmen 
wont be too far behind.
Some people are calling the Big Ten the 
best conference in basketball right now, with 
Illinois and Indiana leading the way and 
Purdue close behind. Illinois returns four 
starters including Efrem Winters, Bruce 
Douglas and Doug Altenberger. You can 
never count out Bobby Knights Hoosiers 
with Steve Alford coming back as well as 
Uwe Blab, and a couple of Mr. Basketballs 
from Indiana and Illinois coming in as 
freshman.
The ACC is always one of the best, and 
this year should be no exception, with three 
teams (Duke, North Carolina State and 
Georgia Tech) each returning their starting 
lineups.
A young Duke team suprised a lot of peo
ple last year, but this year they are con
sidered the team to beat in the ACC, with
Johnny Dawkins leading the way. N. C. State 
has Terry Gannon, Spud Webb and Loren
zo Charles plus a blue-chip crop of freshmen 
to do battle with. Georgia Tech should be 
tough with all five starters from last years 
NIT squad coming back, including two 
ACC Rookies of the Year. You can never 
count out those Tar Heels or Maryland, 
either.
Other teams to watch include DePaul, 
with plenty of talent returning from last 
years great squad; Oklahoma, with the 
great Wayman Tisdale and a fine suppor
ting cast; Kentucky and Joe B. Hall who are 
always tough; Memphis State with Keith 
Lee; and Danny Crums Louisville Cardinals 
among others.
Im not going to pick a top 20, or take a 
stab at the final four. Ill leave that to the 
(so-called) experts. But I will say that its go
ing to be another great year in college 
basketball, from the opening tip in 
November until that final buzzer sounds in 
Lexington on April 1, so dont miss it.
PRE-SEASON RANKINGS
AP
1. Georgetown
2. Illinois
3. DePaul
4. Indiana
5. Oklahoma
6. Duke
7. St. Johns
8. Memphis St. -
9. Washington
10. SMU
11. UNLV
12. Syracuse
13. N. Carolina St
14. LSU
15. Virginia Tech
16. Arkansas
17. Louisville
18. Kentucky
19. Kansas
20. Georgia Tech
Street and Smiths
1. Georgetown
2. Illinois |
3. DePaul
4. Indiana
5. Oklahoma
6. Duke
7. Washington
8. SMU
9. St. Johns
10. Virginia Tech
11. Kentucky
12. Memphis State 
. 13. Arkansas
14. Wichita St.
15. UNLV
16. N. Carolina St.
17. Louisville
18. Syracuse
19. VCU
20. Kansas
SeidI takes charge as women's BB coach
continued from page 15
take away a teams offensive pattern, and 
make them do what they dont want to do, 
says Seidl.
The team is also working on a half-court 
press, and Seidl would like to develop a fullcourt 1-3-1 press. Her goal is to eventually 
have a team that could play four defenses, 
and possibly to build up to seven.
On offense, look for the team to try to run 
as much as possible. Seidl would like to have 
a running team now, but says she needs 
more people running and filling in the
lanes. If the team can efficiently pass the 
ball up the court on fast breaks, what run
ning game there is will improve greatly.
The team is relatively young, comprised 
of three seniors, a junior, five sophomores, 
and four freshmen. Since Seidl only started 
as coach on October 8, the teams adjust
ment to her coaching style and game plans 
is just now picking up.
Looking at the teams opponents, Seidl is 
hoping for the team to improve throughout 
the year. For example, the team opens its 
season at Bethany on November 27. While
the first game will be tough, the Tartans do 
not play Bethany again until February 8, 
and Seidl looks at Bethany as a team we 
should beat with progressiveness.
Seidl called W&J extremely strong, and 
considers them the major force in the con
ference. Meanwhile, she added, Thiel is 
very young ... they have all freshmen and 
sophomores, but theyll be strong.
The Tartans begin their home schedule on 
November 29, with a 7:00 pm game against 
Grove City.
CMU/UNITED WAY 1984
Time to Care More,Share More...
Professional CFACenters
9.3 5.5
Week ending Nov. 9
13.3 10.7 20.4
total $ 28,962,00
MCS Administrative
Divisions
10.9 10.4
total % 10.6
H&SSGSIASURA

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
SEI arrival benefits both CMU and Pittsburgh
President Richard Cyerts announcement 
that the Department of Defenses Software 
Engineering Institute (SEI) will be coming to 
CMU has brought a great many benefits to 
CMU.
This proposal does not make CMU a major 
war zone. What the Department of Defense 
(DoD) has done is gone to the computer science 
experts to research software problems and 
programs.
The brains of computer science in this coun
try are located in the university system. The 
DoD turned to these brains to come up with
their best proposal for a software research 
facility.
CMU has done a great service to the city of 
Pittsburgh. The economy of Pittsburgh is at 
a low point. The 250 jobs the SEI creates will, 
admittedly, do little for the unemployed steel 
worker. But the assembly lines in the SEI and 
jobs from supporting businesses will help the 
jobless.
Not only will the SEI help Pittsburgh, but 
it will also help CMU. Such a facility will at
tract the best faculty and students from around
the country. When that happens, the name 
CMU will make a more valuable diploma
All people involved should be proud the DoD 
chose CMU. Many people, including the president of University of Maryland, feel other 
schools submitted better proposals. If our proposal truly was not the best, it stands to reason j 
we got the nod due to our fine reputation - 
a reputation all the faculty, staff and students 
of this school helped create.
In no way is CMU perfect, but CMU ranks 
with the best universities in the country  and 
the SEI can only make us better.
S3.35C3 S3OFIAL35A EFLO3IC NITRAE
Government control over SEI a disadvantage
By Ric Med row
A Software Engineering Institute is an op
portunity  an opportunity that will pro
duce far fewer positive results than it could 
because the Department of Defense is run
ning it.
As anyone who has ever taken 
4? basic economics knows, private 
industry does it better, for 
1 reasons far too numerous to go
into. The Reagan Administration knows this 
basic economic principle. When Reagan 
took office in 1980, a malaise had overtaken 
the economy.
Capital was being taken from potential in
vestors pockets so the government could 
spend it. The theory  Keynsian economics
 was the government had to pump money
into the economy to get capital flowing 
again.
It failed. Reagan cut government spend
ing and taxes. The economy boomed. But 
for some reason, in the area of defense 
spending the Reagan Administration forgets 
its own lesson.
Instead of the Department of Health and 
Human Services using jobs programs to im
prove the economy, the job is given to DoD. 
Cyert believes ten years down the road, the 
DoD will have Pittsburgh back on its feet. 
It wont work.
He points to economies of scale, the theory 
that a larger operation can either benefit 
from greater resources or suffer from more 
red tape. Cyert feels the DoD will be an 
asset. He said, . . . its very difficult for one
person to do this kind of work. .. the DoD, 
with the size that it is, you can multiply the 
problem that we have by many thousands 
of times. Thats really the problem that the 
SEI is trying to solve.
Anyone familiar with the DoD knows its 
record. It is the most wasteful spender 
of money in government. The record of 
hammers and nails that cost thousands 
would be too tiring to enumerate. Just im
agine what a piece of software could cost.
What we are now seeing is the govern
ment, again, trying to boost our economy 
with government initiatives. It wont work 
any better with defense in the 80s than with 
welfare in the 70s.
But if the institute should work in spite 
of DoD, the benefits are few. According toYE3 Mlv3IAFIlF5 ePA3I5FAlr3
Libertarian defines one's rights
By Dan Tobias
One subject prominent in many of my col
umns is rights. My viewpoint in numerous 
political subjects is guided by basic concepts 
of individual rights, such as the rights to life, 
liberty and property (Jefferson 
jJiF changed that last one to the
fT pursuit of happiness in the
Declaration of Independence, 
but earlier documents had property in its 
place).
The kind of rights I advocate are based 
on the right of people to live their oym lives 
without others intervening, as long as they 
pose no threat to the equal right of others.
However, some people elsewhere on the 
political spectrum state very different sorts 
of rights, which they claim to be equally 
self-evident. These are things such as the 
right to a free, public education, the right 
to a decent job, or the right to equal pay 
for equal work. The difference is, unlike 
other rights, these rights require that other 
people be compelled to take positive action 
to fulfill them. If person A has the right to 
a job, that implies that there is a person B
someplace who has the obligation to hire 
person A, even if B does not actually require 
As services at the present. The right of per
son C to a free edcuation means that some 
other people must be forced to pay to build 
a school and hire a teacher.
There is no such thing as a free lunch, as 
you must be aware when you pay your 
Validine bill. Thus, the proper thing to ask 
whenever somebody proclaims a right to 
some service free of charge, is Provided by 
whom? If people have a right to medical 
care, then should doctors be enslaved? If 
people have a right to a free education, 
should teachers be enslaved?
The reply from the people who favor free 
education and free medical care would be, 
Of course not! People in theseprofessions 
have as much right to a decent living as 
anybody else. Thus, somebody must pay 
them. In a capitalist system, that somebody 
is the person who receives the benefit of the 
services. But in a socialistic system in which 
such services are rights, they are paid for 
by the government. This translates to the 
theft of money out of everybodys paycheck
Past article clarified
By Michael Ketzenberg
After speaking with a few people about 
my previous article, I came to the 
understanding that my intent was 
misunderstood. Indeed, I think it was a bit 
garbled and nonsensical. I will therefore try 
to elaborate and better define 
jXT my opposition to the Complaint 
Department and its column.
To me, complaints are the 
personal expression of problems. That is, a 
person has a problematic situation and com
plains about it. Furthermore, all worthy pro
blems (problems worth mentioning) have a 
specific sourrf and complaints are directed 
to that to correct or chanee that
problem.
I personally dont consider the complaint 
about Pittsburgh being so cold a worthy one 
primarily because there is nothing anyone 
can do about it and it is just too bad. Its 
a fact of life and if you wanted warm 
weather you should have gone to school in 
the south.
However, the complaint that rooms and 
buildings are too cold seems justifiable. Its 
a clear statement that the heat should be 
turned up or on. Even so, the expression of 
such a complaint in The Tartan is of no 
value. The source of the problem is not with 
The Tartan, it is with whomever is in charge 
continued on page 19
in order to pay for services for other people.
Liberals will say at this point, But human 
decency and compassion demand that we 
help out the poor! While there is nothing 
wrong with voluntarily giving money to 
charity to help the poor, when this is forced 
on everybody through government taxsupported programs, it is no longer an act 
of compassion or charity; it is an act of coer
cion. If somebody held you at gunpoint and 
fprced you to make a large donation to The 
United Way, I doubt if you will come out of 
that experience feeling public-spirited or 
charitable. There would be no reason to 
commend you, or the person holding the 
gun to you, as benevolent people.
So watch out for people who invent 
rights which do not exist. When that fastfood commercial proclaims a right to 
chicken done right, you all know im
mediately that it is just an advertising gim
mick. Unfortunately, many people falf for 
other statements of rights with no more basis 
in fact.
Dan Tobias is a junior in applied math and 
writes The Libertarian Alternative for The 
Tartan.
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the beginning of the opinion 
section, and are the official opinion of The Tar
tan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual authors 
who are usually on The Tartan staff, but the 
opinions are not necessarily those of The Tartan 
,Editorial Board.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of indnndual 
authors who are usually members of the Univer
sity community. A letter intended for publication 
must be signed and include the writer's address 
and phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
Cyert, it means 250 jobs over five years, a 
vibrant software industry for Pittsburgh and 
recognition for CMU.
One at a time: Whether 250 or 2,500 jobs, 
it wont provide any jobs that wouldnt have j 
otherwise been available. There just arent 
many high caliber computer scientists on! 
unemployment these days.
As for Pittsburgh and CMU, the govern J 
ment just eliminated every other city andf 
university in the country from competitio^ 
with greater resources. Had groups of( 
universities banded together, the best con 
sortium would have won the Great Software! 
Race. I like to think CMU would have led! 
the pack. But due to government interven j 
tion CMU has the project, and because i 
lack of competition, it will produce far lessj 
than it could have.
Then there is CMUs policy against per i 
forming classified research, which Cyert saysl 
the university is going to stick to. Any facul
ty working on classified research would bt^ 
on leave or working as consultants. So on i 
official basis CMU sticks to its policy. Bit 
for all intents and purposes, the principle inj 
volved is thrown out the window.
It is easy to jump on the bandwagon who 
the home team is winning. This projects 
be good for CMU. But it is not the direcf 
tion in which our government should 1 
leading the country.
Ric Medrow is Editor in Chief of The Taij 
tan and is a junior in Professional Writit 
and European Studies.
TheTarta
Editor-in-Chief ...............................Ric Med
Managing Editor......................Mike Pile*
Business Manager_____Neil GreenW
Ent. Editor...............................................Ric Med
News Editor......................Christopher D.
Sports Editor ......................................Don Eg
Photography Editor______Mike Pile
Production Manager ... Katrin We
Ad Manager.............................. Steve
Typesetting Manager _______Jill Ck
Art Director....................Michael A. Sus
Assoc. Features Editor Neal W. John 
Assoc. Business Mgr. ... Bonnie
Asst. News Editor..................Karen1
Asst. Prod. Mgr.....................Michele Reis
Asst. Typesetting Mgr. ...Joe
Asst. Art Director *.............Mark Kis
Contributing Editor ..............Pauline
Contributing Editor........................Scott
Editorial Assistant...............Mohan
Production Staff: Tina Hatchl, 
Friedman, John Blanck, Dennis Cohe^J
Copyright 1984 by The Tartan. The Edito^ 
reserves the right to withhold from publication < 
it deems unfit for publication. Editorial 
50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo^ 
5782112. 24 hour phone, (412) 5782113. M* 
dress: Box 17, Schenley Park Pittsburgh
ir(
(hfbl
r
ft's
feFk
he 
|nts 
5ai 
|n s

---------------------------------------------------

November 20, 1984The TartenPage 19
WEEKLY SALARY
61
olumn offers solutions
By Christopher D. Lewis
Despite the complaint that complaints 
rent worth the ink that is used to print 
em, the Tartan Complaint Department
ves on . . .
In addition to voicing com
plaints, in accordance with the 
suggestion of another columnist, 
I will begin to try to offer a soluon to the problems that arise.
Heating has been a main complaint of 
any people. I do not have a solution for 
is. Try the Housing Department. Tony 
artin always has his hands full, but if he 
its a specific problem it is usually taken 
re of eventually.
In the mail this week I received just one 
t of complaints. That is either good or
d. Either people are too busy (real lazy) 
write in, or it was a good week and peo
ple dont have complaints.
Thanks go out to Michael Bett, who sent 
in this weeks only set of complaints. Betts 
main complaint was why is Thanksgiving 
so close to finals? He elaborated. You come 
back from Thanksgiving vacation, and all 
of a sudden its time to do all that reading 
youve been putting off all semester. Ob
viously we cant move finals; therefore I think 
Thanksgiving should be moved back three 
weeks.
As far as a solution to that one Mike, I 
dont know any pilgrim or Indian leaders, 
but Ill research it.
Bett also wanted to know how he could 
be 14 weeks behind in his work after just 12 
weeks. I just hope you arent a math major, 
but I know the feeling.
In response to Monsieur Ketzenbergs 
continued on page 21
pposition to Complaint 
epartment clarified
pie
ntinued from page 18 
heating buildings.
Now, I do admit that there is some value 
appealing to the multitude for consideran of a specific complaint. They might be 
blems we are unaware of and should be. 
getting support from a larger body of 
adds considerable strength and imance to such a complaint (i.e. strength 
numbers).
posting complaints in The Tartan 
not further the goal of solving the probIf you want a problem solved, go to the 
rce and deal with it from there. I think 
h all the hoopla and emphasis placed on 
blem-solving around here some ingenious 
I would have figured this out.
t s ironic to note that Chris Lewis will not
ept any complaints about The TartanIf.
hope you understand at least some of the 
nts in my opposition to the Complaint 
artment. Even so. I should be no better 
1 Such a column, if I were to leave this
Letters;
US voters not informed
Editor:
I thought Id relate a sobering election day 
experience here on campus, which seemed 
very telling of the sorry political state of the 
nation.
Since I had registered to vote in Pitt
sburgh, I naturally thought to inform myself 
of the local candidates so as to utilize my 
democratic voice locally as well as nationally.
I had only managed to hear about the Con
sumer Party candidates as their literature 
was included in the seemingly endless influx 
of mail for former inhabitants of my 
apartment.
On election day I went to Hunt expecting 
to find some comprehensive outlines of the 
candidates and their platforms in Mondays 
Press or Post-Gazette. Finding nothing, I 
decided Id have to invest some time sear
ching for pertinent articles from the 
preceeding week. To my amazement, I 
found nothing. I then asked the librarian for 
assistance. She could only suggest what I had 
tried. After explaining my difficulty, she 
looked at me oddly and asked What class 
is this for?
That my efforts to inform myself as a 
voting citizen would seem so out of place  
particularly in an academic environment  
made me question the validity of our 
democracy. Of course, this dilemma became 
more overwhelming as the returns came in. 
But still, as I voted, I had already lost the 
sense of participating in an actual 
democratic process that our allegedly free 
society was based on.
Wednesday was a day of sober reflection. 
After having been in Eastern European 
countries this time last year, I thought of the 
plight of the people Id met there. They 
understood their government well, and
generally despised it despite the propagan
da they were fed. Yet they cant easily do 
anything to change it, as they are powerless 
as citizens. It seems ironic then, that in this 
democratic system, people are so uniform
ed and actually uninterested in the affairs 
of their government which is certainly not 
innocent of the vicious acts we and the 
Soviet-bloc citizens hear the evil empire 
committing.
Apparently eager to accept all the pro
paganda the Reagan administration has 
been spewing recently, under the guise of 
what they consider a new patriotism, (un
fortunately the most effective election rebut
tal to date) the electorate has given Reagan 
what he can claim is a mandate to continue 
in the reactionary direction he has been 
leading the country. Already on election day, 
rhetoric about Soviet MiGs being sent to 
Nicaragua lead to statements like This ad
ministration is prepared to use military 
force, issued from the White House, and we 
are witnessing new military maneuvers as the 
ones just issued in a new reconnaisance mis
sion in Europe.
A professor of mine is equally disturbed 
about this frightening state of affairs, and 
took class time this week to emotionally ex
press concern to his students who might soon 
fall victims of US imperialism as the current 
 rhetoric materializes, now that the election 
is out of the way.
I find such acts commendable, and also 
care to express appreciation for the Tartans 
publication of the most comprehensive 
outline of the local candidates I could find.
Norbert Schindler 
Math/Music
Tobias' article rebutted
piece as it stands. Indeed, arent I just 
complaining?
So, with this in mind Id like to post a few 
suggestions for the Complaint Department 
that just might, in my opinion of course, 
make it a worthwhile column.
First off, many people who have com
plaints dont necessarily know how to correct 
their problem. As for a complaint about 
cold rooms and buildings, a reply of who to 
contact about the problem would not be 
without merit. Indeed, I think the value of 
the Complaint Department could be in the 
relay of information in helping people solve 
their problems. Im not saying provide a 
solution, but give the complainer a direc
tion in reaching those ends. Tell him or her 
who, if anyone, is responsible and by what 
means that person can go about correcting 
his situation.
I think if we are to realize the full extent 
of our problem-solving capacities, the Com
plaint Department should be geared towards 
relaying information instead of simple 
posting of complaints.
Editor:
I thought Dan Tobias article on page 
twenty of the Nov. 13 Tartan was totally off 
the wall. I cannot believe that anyone is 
naive enough to believe that drugs dont 
harm anyone other than those that are 
directly involved in using them. What about 
the millions of people killed each year by 
drunk drivers? What about those left behind 
who must cope with the fact that their lov
ed ones are gone just because someone was 
smashed out of their gourd after a night out 
on the town.
On top of that, who knows how many 
thousands of people have been victimized 
through robbery and theft because some 
punk needed a way to support his habit.
Now that Ive vented my feelings let me 
state more calmly the reasons I believe that 
drugs should in no wise be legalized.
1. Many drugs, by definition, rob men of 
their faculties. By this Im referring to mind 
altering drugs. Men have enough trouble 
controlling such emotions as rage and anger 
when their senses are clear that I would not 
trust someone who was under the influent 
of such drugs.
2. Men have abused the few drugs that are 
already legalized. Included in this category 
are alcohol, which causes millions of dollars 
of damage and takes hundreds of thousands 
of lives annually in auto accidents, and 
cigarettes, whose toxic fumes fill restaurants, 
classrooms, elevators, hallways, and 
nonsmokers lungs no matter much they try 
to avoid it (and believe me I for one try to 
avoid it).
3. Drugs cause men to become burdens 
to their families, to their employers, and to 
society in general. It never ceases to amaze
me that one of the first priorities for those 
with low incomes is not feeding their families 
as reason would predict, instead it is buy
ing a six-pack and a carton of cigarettes. 
The family suffers to feed an addiction.
Have you ever stopped to wonder why 
some companies pour hundreds of 
thousands of dollars into drug rehabilitation 
programs for their employees? Its not 
because its chic or the in thing to do. They 
do it because employees that use drugs cost 
them money in the form of increased human 
error and increased sick days. They do it 
because in the end they save money by 
rehabilitating their employees rather than 
letting them continue their drug habits.
The article also suggests that organized 
crime flourishes because drugs are illegal. 
It suggests that if prostitution, pornography, 
and gambling were also legalized, organ
ized crime would probably fade into in
significance. Of course he neglects to men
tion that this would mean crime would then 
be organized by the US Government. We 
would have embraced many evils just go get 
rid of one. Besides, organized crime is very 
good at thinking up ways to profit from cir
cumstances. I doubt it would fade into 
insignificance.
Dan, and any others who would call for 
legalization of drugs, think again. Drugs are 
dangerous and costly not only to those who 
use them but to the people aroud them, too. 
I will fight to the death to keep drugs from 
being legalized, because, in essence. I am 
fighting not only for my own life, but for the 
lives of those I love and the lives of all 
humanity.
Jay Thomas Allen 
1st year grad.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanNovember 20, 1984
College Republicans denies registration failure
Editor:
Last weeks Op-Ed page featured a letter 
headlined, College Republicans sham 
organization. The author would have every 
right to be upset if she had been illegally 
denied an opportunity to vote. The fact of 
the matter is, however, that the events 
described never took place. The letter was 
at best an exaggeration. And possibly a com
plete fabrication.
The CMU College Republicans made 
voter registration forms available at many 
places on campus. Additionally, members of 
the organization were stationed in Skibo for 
the last two weeks of the registration period. 
Students who registered at Skibo were given 
aid, if ncecssary, in filling out the forms. All 
students had the option of completing the 
form, sealing it and mailing it themselves. 
Many students opted to have the College 
Republicans mail their registration forms for 
them.
If the voter registsration form was hand
ed in unsealed, it was sealed and then put 
in pile with all other registration forms. At. 
the end of each day, all forms collected were 
immediately mailed from the mailbox on 
Margaret Morrison Street or from the cam
pus post office.
During the voter registration drive, over 
160 people were registered by the CMU Col
lege Republicans. Of these, an informal and 
very non-scientific poll indicated that about 
half registered as independents. The remain
ing half was nearly evenly split between 
Republican and Democrats. One person 
reported registering as a Socialist. ALL of 
the registration forms were mailed as 
received.
I speak with certainty about these events 
because I personally registered most of the 
160 voters. Moreover, I mailed all of the 
forms. This included a trip to the Pittsburgh 
Post Office to guarantee that people who
waited until the last afternoon to register 
would have an opportunity to vote. All 
registration forms included a card that was 
immediately returned (by the Allegheny 
County Elections Office) to the registrant to 
inform them that their form was being 
processed.
If the author of the letter did indeed 
register to vote through the College 
Republicans; she could have contacted us 
when she did not receive her return form. 
If at that time, it was too late to register, we 
could have expedited her receipt of an 
absentee ballot from her home district. She 
apparently never made any attempt to con
tact us.
Everyone has a duty to cast their vote. I 
admire and respect this woman for seeking 
to carry out her responsibility. Similarly, she 
and The Thrtan, which ran the letter 
without attempting to verify the facts, 
should respect the College Republicans for 
providing an important service. So far, all 
attempts to contact the author have been 
unsuccessful. I do not know why she felt it 
necessary to accuse this organization of such 
an act. I feel justified in demanding a full 
apology from the author and from The Tar
tan. I will expect each to reply in the next 
issue.
David W. Patti 
College Republicans 
MS SUPA
Editors Note: The editor respects and ap
preciates any effort to register voters. Thanks 
to efforts by the College Republicans and 
similar efforts by organizations like Student 
Senate and CMU Peace Alliance, a Tartan 
survey indicated a full 81% of the student '*' 
body was registered.
Further, the letter was Terri Glueks, not 
The Tartans. As Mr. Patti will notice in The 
Tartan opinion policy, letters are opinions 
of individual authors ...
The Tartan clarifies voter's guide
The voters guide in the Nov. 6 The Tar
tan was originally published by the Citizens 
for Public Justice Christian Voters Club, a 
group of Christians in Pittsburgh who are 
attempting to examine the meaning of 
Christian political perspectives and justice 
as a norm for politics. Contact them at: 
Christian Voters Club of Pittsburgh 
5713 Rippey St.
Pittsburgh, PA 15206 
Below is a list of the questions that originally 
appeared in the guide.
1. The Role of Government-What is the 
role of government in economic issues such 
as unemployment? Should government 
create jobs, encourage nongovernment jobs, 
or allow the market to correct unemploy
ment itself? Explain.
2. Poverty and HungerLegislation has 
been introduced to put a moratorium on all 
increases in military and other security aid 
and to increase aid programs that more 
directly benefit poor people such as nutri
tion and education programs (Bill H.R. 
4440, in the House of Representatives).
What is your position on such legislation? 
Explain.
3. Urban DevelopmentWhere should the 
funds come from and how should they be 
allocated to best address the problem of 
deteriorating urban infrastructures (roads, 
bridges, neighborhoods, communities)?
4. Defense PolicyDo you support an in
crease or a reduction in military hardware? 
Why? You may want to distinguish between 
nuclear, chemical, and conventional 
armaments.
5. Environmental ManagementDo you
favor a greater, the same, or a lesser govern
ment role in environmental issues? Explain. 
What is the guiding principle that you use 
to formulate positions on environmental 
issues?
6. EducationHow do you propose to 
enhance the ability of parents to send their 
children to schools of their choice without 
undue economic penalty? Explain.
7. Medical CareHow do you propose to 
deal with the escalating costs that, remove 
health care from the grasp of the poor?
Explain.
8. AbortionWhat measures would you 
propose and/or support to stop abortion^ 
now that it is legal? Explain.
9. Foreign PolicyShould our nations self 
interest be the primary factor in shaping the 
foreign policy of the U.S.? Explain.
10. DiscriminationDo you favor legisla
tion to actively guarentee the civil rights 
groups that have historically been victims i 
discrimination (women, Blacks, Hispanics, 
homosexuals, religious minorities, etc.)?" 
Explain.
11. EnergyWhat measures do you recom
mend to encourage conservation and the | 
development of renewable energy sources?
12. Motivaton and Experience^Why did 
you decide to seek this public office? List 
specific background and experiecne that j 
commends you to this office.

Alpha Phi Omega is not funded by the stu
dent activities fee as indicated in Bill McCor-1 
micks column last week. They are funded] 
through their own fundraising.
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive I
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll lea\^ 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 237 Atwood Street Mon . Tues., Wed. 10-7 No Appointment 
Across the street from Thur*., Frl. 10-9 UNISEX
Oiklind Post Office Sit. 9*6 HAIR SALON
687-3500
HEl?M$ -Of? The STrt FS$25.00
WASH CUT AND
$3oo expEcmions
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ WE WILL FURNISH IF NEEDED! 
YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and .inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS 
that could become available for September, 
October and November occupancy.
(ANY LENGTH)PRECISOM HAIRCUT TERS
We are open for your viewing seven days 
a week. PLEASE call H. M. Harrity for 
YOUR appointment, anytime. DIAL 
621-4030. We'll see YOU at "THE 
FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.

---------------------------------------------------

November 20, 1984The TartanPage 21
Column provides outlet 
or opinions plus humor
ntinued from page 19
lumn, he complained that a complaint 
ould be taken to the source of the prom, not make humorous by some columI ask him only why he didnt bring his 
piplaints to the source of the problem 
he went public. Rather hypocritical, 
say, Mr. Ketzenberg. 
point of my column is to give people 
to voice their opinions. Maybe pu 
their problem will get results. If I 
person to laugh along the way, that can 
help break the the tension of CMU life. 
Lh with his compliments offered in 
, let alone on this newspaper. If 
wanted to do a compliment colgreat. If someone sends me a compliabout someone, Ill print those, too,
11 do not mean to make this a press sparrLg session, but then again I plead self 
nse in voicing my opinion, 
hanks to those who have complimented 
on this column. Thanks also to those 
constructive criticism. I could do 
out the destructive criticism, 
going home for the weekend. Have a
good Thanksgiving, enjoy yourself. This 
week is a holiday, so dont have an annoying 
week, make it good. But may next week 
bring complaing and bantering, for the 
Christmas Crunch will be upon us.
United
way
'tecwme dxrwtCollege Press Service
mm of m wxmrn vm, m. am m m uiiuucftMSNNSffiUiy FOR M Mmo ASSASSINA USWWWlS MSWT ARNU"
Over 150 Books for Art Students sod 
Art Lov#rsSend for FREEComplete Dover Fine Art Catalog
Over 150 fine paperbacks, most $3.50 to $6, including Rembrandt, Leonardo, Blake, Beardsley, Goya, Ert6, more, plus full-color posters, students' volumes, art instruction, etc. Write to Dover, Dept. A177 .31 E. 2nd St., Mineola, NY 11501. .
Your Talent.
Free Pregnancy 
Tests
Abortion Services
Personal
Counseling
Women* Health Services
107 Sixth Street 
Downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1900
Edi tor-ntoC hitrie 
ne if.hor-ntoC riRr-tc 
MagkMkPl*B hn.eRiR
For: PittsburghLSATGMATVICATSATGRE
3/2 EXAM: Classes 
now forming
1/26 EXAM Classes 
begin 1/12
Classes now forming
Classes now forming
12/8 EXAM: Classes 
begin 11/24
RamVir.ep.brochure an an invitation to a FreeCtan can TM Free : 800-222-TEST
National Center tor Educational Testing
[PC[CPn su,"Mi
;ruf ANTEE: Score(Uakfi tho natrf H.
Aggressively involved in the development of a wide range of new and existing technologies, ICI 
Americas is a diversified and rapidly growing U.S. chemical industry leader. With sales in excess 
of $1 billion annually, and over 20 modern manufacturing and research facilities throughout the 
U.S., we offer an ideal professional environment in which to showcase and expand your talents.
Our products range widely from pharmaceuticals and plastics to herbicides and aerospace 
components.
Right now, through our Corporate Program, qualified applicants who desire management-level 
challenges and opportunities can take advantage of a unique stepping stone to long term career 
success.
If you have a Degree background and the 
qualities necessary to distinguish yourself in:
Consider a career with ICI Americas in one of 
these challenging fields:
 CHEMICAL  MANAGERIAL 
ENGINEERING ECONOMICS
 ECONOMICS  CHEMISTRY
 PRODUCTION 
MANAGEMENT
 FINANCE
 BUSINESS
 MARKETING
 SALES
Look for our posters on campus. Then visit 
your placement office today, and arrange for 
a personal interview with an ICI 
representative. If unable to meet with us 
personally, send your resume and a brief 
letter outlining your career objectives to:
Manager College Relations 
ICI Americas Inc. 
Wilmington, DE 19897
ICI Americas Inc,
ICI Americas is an Equal Opportunity Employer
Its the essential element in ICI Americas on-going growth and diversification.
You dMi'f mm to eAs 
F .I33 OI3N5F5ni PFCA F5k 
E3.3H nFPP
at621-1983
PREGNANT?

---------------------------------------------------

mamFunes.
ACROSS
1 Pitcher's miscue 
5 Youngster 
8 Blinks: colloq.
12 Turkish 
regiment
13 Mature
14 Send forth
15 Stupefy
16 Fabulous bird
17 Hindu garment
18 Saturated 
20 Preferably
22 Note of scale
23 Persian fairy
24 Evergreen tree 
27 Part
31 Fuss
32 Vitiate
33 Ordinance
34 Regular
36 Competent
37 Indefinite 
amount
38 Before noon
39 Bahama islands 
42 Masseur
46 City in Russia
47 Veneration
49 Tardy
50 Path
51 Decay
52 Sea eagles
53 Goals
54 River in 
Scotland
55 Chair
DOWN
1 Game fish
2 Singing voice
CROSS
WORD
PUZZLE
FROM COLLEGE 
PRESS SERVICE
3 Praise4 Ignite5 Mountain lake6 Time gone by7 Worn out
1234
12
1
18
I.91011
I 14
I
8 Rouse to action
9 Oriental nurse
10 Weary
11 Arouse
19 Babylonian deity 
21 Sea in Asia
23 Flower
24 Moccasin
25 Artificial language
26 Negative prefix
27 European
28 Priest s vestment
29 Hindu cymbals
30 Female sheep 
32 Mr. Laurel
35 Facial expressions
36 Wanders aimlessly
38 Symbol for gold
39 Tree trunk
40 Country of Aisa41 Repair
42 Nerve network
43 Reveal
44 Sicilian volcano
45 Remainder 
48 Sorrow
 1SS4 United Feeture Syndicate
MENU FOR
KILTIE CAFE
Soup: Hearty Beef; Lunch: Stromboli, 
Sausage Omelet, Lima Bean 
Casserole, Dinner: THANKSGIVING 
DINNER: Prime Rib, Ziti and Sauce
uds
TUES
11/20
Soup: Manhattan Clam Chowder; 
Lunch: Fish & Cheese Sandwich, 
Turkey Tetrazzini, Roman Rice & 
Beans
CLOSED
WED
11/21
THUR
11/22
etwor
MOREWOOD GARDI
Soup: Cream of Mushroom; Lw 
Grilled Ham & Swiss on 
Rigatoni w/Meat Sauce, Chili, I 
Dinner: Carved Turkey Bn 
w/Cranberry Sauce, Beef S 
o/Noodles. Baked Haddi 
w/Supreme Sauce, Cheese, Sp 
and Rice
Soup: Matso Ball; Lunch: 
Blintzes w/Applesauce or Sour( 
Potato Pancake w/Comed Bf| 
Cole Slaw
CLOSED
FOR
THANKSGIVING
BREAK
FRI
11/23
FOR
THANKSGIVI1
SAT
11/24
BREAK
Dinner: Chopped Swiss Steak, Batter 
Dipped Haddock, Vegetarian Fried 
Rice, Enchilidaa
SUN
11/25
niu P e/ie
Soup: French Onion; Lunch: Sloppy 
Joe Sandwich, Fanners Omelet,
Macaroni au Gratin; Dinner: Ham
burger Steak, Chicken Parmesan,
Spinach Souffle
Menu subject to change
MON
11/26
Soup: Potato Chowder; 
Burger Melt on Rye, Fried1 
Deli; Dinner: Carved Ro** J" 
Jus, Roast Turkey w/Drcssn# 
Creole. Cheese ft Mushroom '

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
ni,ASSIFIEDS
Roommate Wanted.Squirrel Hill. Own room, 
male preferred. $190/month plus
itilities. Walk to campus. 421-5133.
jegg beat Gil BN Rosenthal 153 to 149 in 
iowling. Dr. Pepper power prevails!
THE GUEST HOME, at White Oak. Quality; 
hort-term furnished. Member Pittsburgh Bed & 
kfast. (412) 751-7143 or 751-5309.
hying Fingers Word Processing. Manuscripts, 
jers, resumes, cover letters, etc. We use IBMwith letter quality printer (HP Laserjet). 
ough drafts on disk are available. 731-8978.
lere0 service  all makes, all models. 
Liplifiers, receivers, turntables, tapedecks, car 
[ereos, TVs, VCRs. 30-day warranty. Steve
52-69 27.
Need transportation? Drive a car anywhere in 
USA. Must be 21. References required. Call 
828-4813.
Mailing Labels with names and addresses of 
companies that hire scientists and engineers. 600 
labels for $20.00. Motto Labels with your Mot
to on them. Semper Ubi Sub Ubi. 100 labels with 
your motto $5.00. Chicago Computer Products, 
PO Box 7994, Pittsburgh, PA 15216.
Car pooling  winter term  Bethel Park to 
Oakland. Female driver preferred. Will share ex
penses. Call Maria 833-5614.
EXOTIC DANCERS  Entertainment for par
ties, male and female dancers. Stripper-grams. 
931-3255.
$$$ Unlimited Sales opportunity with natural 
and organic products. Call 661-3400.
Easiest cleaning is cleaning you do not have to 
do. Minute-Maid professional services for 4 V6 
years. Insured. Bonded. 682-3860.
Lewis'
Creative 
Hair Team
813 S. Aiken Ave. 
Shadyside 
682-4063
MonFri. 99 Sat. 95 
Super Cuts for Guys and Gals
$Easy Money! I will pay $25 for your phone 
book. Call Lee Ramsey collect at (615)577-7237. 
After 6 pm.
WORD PROCESSING: manuscripts, resumes 
and cover letters, dissertations, term papers; ex
act copy/editing available, 24-hour service, 
621-8544 or 681-5416.
Lost: Diamond ring. Please, if you have it 
or any information about it, contact me. 
Kathy x4434.
JOIN THE TARTAN STAFF JOIN THE 
TARTAN STAFF JOIN THE TARTAN 
STAFF JOIN THE TARTAN STAFF JOIN 
THE TARTAN STAFF JOIN THE TARTAN 
STAFF JOIN THE TARIAN STAFF JOIN 
THE TARTAN STAFF JOIN THE TARTAN 
STAFF JOIN THE TARIAN STAFF JOIN 
THE TARIAN STAFF JOIN THE TARIAN 
STAFF JOIN THE TARTAN STAFF JOIN 
THE TARIAN STAFF JOIN THE TARIAN 
STAFF JOIN THE TARTAN STAFF JOIN
MISCELLANEOUS
Womens Agenda is holding an organizing 
meeting in Pittsburgh on Monday, November 19, 
at 6 p.m., at the Downtown YWCA, Fourth and 
Wood Streets. Speaker for the meeting is Kathryn 
Kolbert, Esq., and attorney with the 
Philadelphia-based Womens Law Project. 
Womens Agenda is a statewide organization, 
working on womens and childrens issues, and is 
holding this meeting to increase its membership 
in this part of the state.
The Pittsburgh-Allegheny County Chapter of
the American Red Cross, a United Way agency, 
will offer a variety of health courses during 
December. Courses in first aid, CPR and babysit
ting will teach practical skills as well as prepare 
students to respond in emergency situations. Day 
and evening classes will be held at the Chapter 
Headquarters, 225 Boulevard of the Allies, 
downtown. The chapter will charge a nominal 
fee to cover the cost of books and course materials. 
Interested persons can register by calling the Red 
Cross at 263-3100.
ALLEGHENY WOMENS CENTER
an out patient medical clinic offering
 Abortionasleep or awake
 Morning After Treatment
 Birth Control
 Related Services
PHONE 412/362r2920
[Allegheny Women s s Center.
Metical Ceni fasi Bldg. 211 North Whitfield St. Pittsburgh, PA 1520t PHONE 4t2/%2-20
Pregnant? Call ATA
Lets talk about your options
Canng and confidential information 
counseling, pregnancy testing and 
related services.
Hotline: (412)731-2420
Pittsburgh 731-2420
Washington, PA 225-6494
Alternatives to Abortion, inc.
<* non profit or^nzanon
TARTAN ELECTIONS
Tuesday, December 4, 1984 
Ski bo Room 12
POSITIONS AVAILABLE:
Editor-in-Chief*
Managing Editor*
News Editor 
Features Editor 
Entertainment Editor 
Sports Editor 
Photography Editor 
A*l k.f[ Manager* *
Production Manager** 
typesetting Manager*
Art Director**
All Activities Fee-paying 
students are eligible and 
encouraged to apply for 
any positions. All present 
Tartan staff members 
(i.e.: those who have 
worked this semester) a(f 
eligible interested
m appointed positions 
should come to the elec
tion meeting anyway.)
^prZZnTZTes,eroJexDont write home 
Get your parents a subscription to 
The Tartanj 
Only $10 for the spring semester.
r
YES! Send me a subscription to The Tartan. 
_____check enclosed please bill
mailing address:
billing address:
* * positions 
Editor-in-Chief.appointedby
send to: Assoc. Business Mgr., The Tartan. Box 
_l7,_Schenlgy Park. Pittsburgh, PA 15213.
ted CaII 57120?}CMU Travel Office
Campus Convenience
Skibo 40A

---------------------------------------------------

presents
WINDHAM HILL RECORDS RECORDING ARTISTS
SHADOWFAX
NAMED BEST JAZZ GROUP OF 1983 
BY CASHBOX MAGAZINE
FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 30 
Sin BO BALLROOMFREE
Funded bv Activities
