The Carnegie Tartan
Vol. 38 No. 21CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY, PITTSBURGH, PA.TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 1944
Dr. Teare Wins 
Research Award
Dr. B. R. Teare, Jr., Professor of 
Electrical Engineering, has been 
awarded the Annual National Prize 
of the American Institute of Elec
trical Engineers for the Best Paper 
in the Field of Theory and Research
submitted in 1943. The award which 
was 'made for his paper entitled 
Skin Effect in Bi-Metallic Con
ductors was announced at the sum
mer technical meeting of the so
ciety on Monday, June 26, in St. 
Louis.
His presentation culminates sev
eral years of careful research on the 
subject of High Frequency and BiMetallic Conductors and is a def
inite advancement in the field of 
Electrical Engineering.
Fraternities Pledge
Summer Swing Put 
Over By Armstrong
Techs Summer Swing, featur
ing Bernie Armstrong and com
pany, achieved success last Satur
day night in spite of the absence of 
the usual cloudburst that occurs 
when successful Tech dances are 
given.
Eighty-five couples were in at
tendanceabout one half the num
ber of persons registered in the en
gineering college for the summer. 
Seniors Nick Yaru, Jim Gilmartin, 
Bob Riddell, and Chet Fienberg 
were enjoying their last Tech all
school dance along with Marty 
Zanger, Ben Baklarz, Hank Geremsky, and Larry Johnson, almost 
service men. Senior Chet Fienberg 
made it his most memorable even
ingJune Friedman was wearing a 
Tau Delt pin for the first time. Con
grats, Chet!
Mr. and Mrs. Shaffer, Prof. and 
Mrs. Joseph B. Rosenbach, Prof. 
and Mrs. John M. Daniels, and Dr. 
and Mrs. Norman E. Dawes were 
chaperons for the evening. Dr. and 
Mrs. Dawes seemed to be enjoying 
Summer Swing as much as any 
of the students as they danced to 
some of Armstrongs best arrange
ments.
Armstrong gave out with many 
smoothies as well as some hot jive, 
typified by One OClock Jump. As 
the evening drew to a close, South 
American rhythms became the ma
jority request. A conga line form
ed, led by Latin Americans of 
Carnegie Tech, and Tech engineers 
congad to the One, Two, Three, 
Kick! rhythm.
Professor Leo T. Lawler Dies Suddenly in Buffalo
Leo T. Lawler, Associate Professor of English and Secretary of the 
Division of Humanistic and Social Studies at the Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, died in Buffalo, New York, on June 22, 1944.
Professor Lawler was one of the most widely known and best loved 
members of the Carnegie faculty. He came to this institution in 1919, 
and from that time on, his splendid influence and pioneering spirit have 
been manifest on the campus. Although his early training was in law 
at Georgetown University, he chose a career in teaching because of the
Theta Tau Initiates 
6 Men; Pi Tau Sigma 
Admits Four Juniors
The initiation of Theta Tau, the 
professional engineering fraternity, 
was held last Thursday, June 22nd. 
The following, all sophomores, were 
initiated: Irwin Aisenberg, Chemi
cal Engineering; T. Richard Querman, Mechanical-aeronautics; Har
old A. Gottesman, Mechanical En
gineering; Martin H. Zanger, Elec
trical Engineering; Benjamin L. 
Schwartz, Chemical Engineering, 
David G. McMahon, Electrical En
gineering.
The initiates and active members 
had a picnic on Sunday, June 24th.
On Thursday night, June 22nd, Pi 
Tau Sigma, the honorary mechan
ical engineering fraternity, initiated 
four juniors. Those initiated were 
Peter Paul Gibian, James W. Simp
son, George Rahall, and Edward 
Ernest Smuts.
A banquet was held at the Royal 
York Dining Room immediately 
after the initiation. Professor 
Charles W. L. Trinks presented the 
principal speech of the evening.
Fifty-one Freshmen Scllute To The Seniors
Although the ranks of the Fresh
men Engineers have been sadly de
pleted, still the old formality of 
rushing continues. After a breath
less chase, involving five fraterni
ties and 111 Freshman Engineers, 
the following 51 boys were pledged. 
Beta Theta Pi:
William Jones 
Richard Herrmann 
David Aspinwall 
Jack Docherty 
Fred Mitchell 
Ivan Sturman 
Pat Kennedy 
Clark Sloan 
Vincent Prus 
Bill Douglass 
Bob Bretsnyder 
Carlo Martino 
Fred Maston 
Don Poskin 
Wendell Minor
Delta Tau Delta:
Howard Roby 
Dewey Bosley 
John Vansuch 
Robert Lombardo 
Ken Bradway 
Walter Jaeger 
Robert Connolley 
Francis Peterson 
Thomas Hall 
Dick Huntoon 
Dick Eschenbach 
Ken King 
Don Baird 
Stewart Savage 
Willard Hines 
Ernie Unrath
Continued on Page 4
opportunity it afforded for construc
tive service in the guidance of 
young men and women.
Among Professor Lawlers fore
most accomplishments at Carnegie 
were his significant contribution to 
the social relations, debating and 
seminar programs. He was also ac
tive in the establishment of the 
mentor system and was a friend of 
the evening school students. He 
served as faculty adviser to many
*1
if
The following editorial appeared recently in the Purdue EXPONENT. 
It is reprinted here because the staff believes its message is applicable to 
wartime colleges in general.
Sunday afternoon, at 2:30 approximately 235 new alumni will go out 
of the Music Hall with diplomas in their hands. Two hundred and thirtyfive former students will leave the University, most of them to serve 
either in industry or with the armed forces. What will they take with 
them besides the mere tangible evidence of graduation?
Many will go out with a knowledge of chemistry, or agriculture, or 
mechanical engineering, or home economics. A few will leave with 
nothing more than memories. All should leave with memories and an 
ability to get along with others, as well as the cold regimented knowledge 
that come from most textbooks. College, to too many people, stands for 
only books, and the learning which is derived from them.
When the development of the individual is taken into consideration, 
there is another and far more valuable part of college life. This is the 
mass learning and experience that comes to one unconsciously. It is not 
taken from books, or from lectures, nor it is found through competitive 
examinations. It comes from the associations and even from extremely 
unacademic pursuits of students.
Most of Sundays graduates have lived the major part of their college 
life at a time when the country was at war. Therefore, by necessity, joe
ing, and the things which go with college life have been on the wane. 
Studies have become more intensified than ever, and social life has fol
lowed suit. In spite of its relative disappearance from the campus, extra
curricular life which consisted of dances, movies, spontaneous trips, seren
ades, parties, and just plain joeing still is an important part of college 
life. Lets hope that all of Sundays graduates realize it; lets hope that 
all of us realize it.
You shall not live by bread alone is almost synonymous with you 
cannot LIVE by books alone. Two hundred and thirty-five new gradu
ates of Purdue should face the world tomorrow with free minds, and with 
an education which comes not only from scholastic life, but also from as
sociations and memories which will last beyond the environs of the Uni
versity. ^
campus organizations, including 
Theta Tau, Pi Delta Epsilon, the 
Citcom Clan, the Newman Club, 
and the Phi Kappa fraternity. His 
efforts on behalf of student publica
tions, in particular The Carnegie 
Technical, which he originated, and 
The Carnegie Tartan, were well 
known and of the greatest assist
ance. He also was president of Phi 
Kappa Phi and was active in the af
fairs of the Young Mens Chritsian 
Association, the Interfraternity 
Council, and the Interhonorary Fra
ternity Council.
During the first World War, Pro
fessor Lawler was in the service as 
an aviator. As such, he was chosen 
for special training at the Massa
chusetts Institute of Technology 
and later became an active member 
of the Pittsburgh Branch of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technol
ogy Alumni Association.
Mrs. Lawler was formerly Flor
ence W. Hill, a graduate of the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie College in 
the Class of 1924. Professor Law
ler also leaves two daughters, 
Louise and Clare.
Correction
In last weeks TARTAN a mistake occurred which is of enough importance to warrant correction. The commencement exercises will be held at 10 A.M., not 10 P.M. as announced in the story on graduation.

---------------------------------------------------

2THE CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 27, 1944
Cdcto^i AnsnckcUn.
Patriotism
Amidst the many sordid failures of Carnegie Tech bond and blood 
donor drives, and the rather unnecessary ballyhoo if and when we do 
manage to fill our quotas in some patriotic or charitable drive, it is grati
fying to note that some Techites do their duty, and do it without expect
ing and receiving much credit.
Somewhere in this issue of the Tartan you will find a small article 
on five girls, members of the College of Fine Arts, who spend every Sun
day afternoon, in spite of the Pittsburgh heat and the temptations of 
leisurely hours in some swimming pool, at the Deshon General Hospital 
in Butler, cheering up the wounded veterans by sketching their portraits. 
In addition to this the girls sacrifice one evening a week as artists in the 
USO Variety Club canteen. As a ridiculously insufficient homage to these 
homefront heroines we would like to repeat their names: Dotty King, 
Louise Koenig, Charlotte Everstine, Irene Waichler, and Frances Cox 
Sankey.
Au Revoir, A1
On May 16, 1943, a tall, gauche, and a bit baby-faced, pink-complexioned young man strode into the Tartan officethen still located in its 
cheerful Carnegie Union quartersand announced that he would like to 
try out as a reporter. Those were still the good old days when the editors 
could afford to be particular in their selection of new workers, but the 
freshmans superior ability was soon evidenced, and he was welcomed into 
the clan of C. I. T. journalists.
His Tartan career followed the pattern of his academic life: his grades 
were a virtually unlimited succession of As, and his stories equalled and 
often surpassed the best this paper had ever known. Features were his 
specialtywe will always remember his essay on the CWEN dance last 
fall. None was surprised when after less than two semesters he became 
Junior Editor, and shortly thereafter, at the end of the Spring term, Man
aging Editor of the Tartan.
This Friday, just thirteen months after his first afternoon in the Tartan 
office, this boy-marvel, our one and only A1 Perry will leave us to enlist 
in the Navy V-12 program. We are going to miss him a hell of a lot . . . 
who can forget his wisecracks, his scientific attitude on sex, and the many 
other idiosyncrasies that add up to Albert Downing Perry.
Good luck, Al.
Raise Hell, But Do It Right
The other day one of the former Tech students who left before grad
uation for the armed forces returned to the house. His comments to the 
4Fs and plebes left followed the now-accepted patternYou never were 
in Skibo, were you ... oh, thats right, you werent here when the dorms 
were still going . . . What happened to the old Saturday night beer par
ties? Remember Hill and that gangly thing he used to drag around? Hes 
in the Pacific now ...
Some of these fellows will never returnnot for dramatic reasons 
'ike death, or lost limbs or sight, but just because they dont give a damn. 
A few may go elsewhere to specialize, but many will think along the lines 
of those who have already returned. Tech isnt the place it used to be. 
If those who stay want to see those who left they must present more than 
hallowed halls and hollow invitations.
Cest la guerre, has become a by-word in the realm of weak but ac
cepted excuses. Skibos gone, the dorms are gone, the frats are dying. 
Yes, but the students are here.
Some of the seniors on the special semester raised more hell in the 
past two months than the campus has seen for a year, and still passed 
their courses. Those who remain can do the same, or they can put their 
time in constructive hell-raising. One of the other will be doneno one 
studies half the time his more voluble excuses say he does. The frats are 
not dying; they are drugging themselves into a coma. Skibo was killed, 
but the Hut is dying of starvation. The campus in and of itself is a piece 
of land; the students in and of themselves are twenty-seven cent chemical 
structures; the former symbiosis of them has degenerated into a parasitic 
grasping by the students, correctable by them if they will.
Support campus activities does not mean Go along with what 
someone else is willing to work on. If you individually do not do any
thing specific, or have not the drive to do it, certainly the student body 
you have called dead will remain a festering corpse.
If your pal who left is to have a desire to return, you by yourself if 
necessary, must supply that desire. Get an idea and plug it. Support 
others, but work yourself.
________________________________________________________________A. D. P.
Opinions expressed in the pages of the TARTAN are those of the members of the staff; in the case of the editorial column they are those of the Editor. They are not to be construed as necessarily the opinions of either the student body or the faculty.
The Carnegie Tartan
Carnegie Institute of Technology, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh IS, Vol
PHONE MAYFLOWER *00 PHONE SCHENLEY 4551
MMtHNTID FOR NATIONAL ADVUTItlNO V _ National Advertising Service, Inc. er o ce ours a
College Publishers Representative , Editor-in-Chief ...........................EM. 9424
<20 Madison avi. n*w yok. *. y. Business Manager..........................EM. 9424
CaiCAM  MtHNtM  Los TIDFH O RAM LMAMVDHVt
Entered a* iMtnl-eiBU matter In Ite Pittsburgh Pott Office under the Act of March I, 1879.Published weekly during school year, except holidays and examination period*.Subscription Price SI.10 per year.
Editor-in-Chief ......................................................................................... Ernie Lowenstein
Military Editor ........................................................................... Pfc. Harvey W. Sherman
Business Manager ............................................................................................. Ed Friedman
The Outlook . . .
Problems of The Far East
By Prof. Robert D. Gregg
An attempt to weigh the future been worked out that is not danof the Far East is almost as stugerous to world peace,
pendous a task as a flight to Mars ln regard to the rest of East Asia 
in a present day passenger plane, imperialism must end, even that of
The area is so vast, the population some of the United Nations. The
so great, and the political, economic, Western/ Powers must surrender
and spiritual problems so complex their exclusive rights and preferenand bewildering that we Westerntial positions. An organization must
ers standor should standhumthen be worked out, probably as a
bly at the threshhold. Just by way regional part of a larger world orof illustration, in a region only three ganization. This might well be
times the size of the United States, termed the Pacific Council. It
namely China, India, the Malay should originally be composed of all
States, the East Indies, Burma, the United Nations whose interests
Tnailand, Indo-China, and Japan, are directly concerned in the area,
we find concentrated almost twojt should include, as rapidly as inthirds of the human race. Added to dependent governments can be orthis picture we find scores of ganized among them, representalanguages and dialects, great extives of the former colonial regions,
tremes of wealth and poverty, deep Ultimately it is to be hoped that the
religious differences, and in great Japanese themselves will show their
sections illiteracy, famine, primitive fitness for membership.
production, political backwardness. rpU r, u ,, ,
As a result this article can attempt , Ths oCu".cl1 shouldfhave to do no more than point out a few *ai7 ^S^tive, executive, and ju-., , * , n . __ dicial power to deal with mterna-guide posts for possible future ac,. , r . , . . . . _tional sovereignty m local problems.
 , . . , , It should be backed by an interna-To begin with we must rememtional armed forcej preponderatel
her, it seems to me that the strugan air force Under the Coundl
g  AsIa 18 vfy deep-seated. The should be al commissions t0 in_
war between the Western Powers vestigate and t to it for action
and China against Japan is merely such iar_reaching problems as the
the outer fringe of a vast wave of followingchange which has been gathering . T . . " .force for years. Underneath the L L^u'dation of foreign interests,
present shooting war is a great gradual development of
earthquake-like series of revoluself-governing states in former 
tions reaching deep into the very colonial areas,
way of life of the Eastern peoples. 3* The application of foreign capIt is a combination of the revolt of ital, under proper safeguards, to
the non-white races against white the tasks of restoring and to the
control, the impress of Western future development of the trans
ideas of nationalism and democracy, portation, agriculture, industry,
the progress of industrialism, and health, education, and many
changing moral and spiritual standother phases of life,
ards. A New Order in East and 4- A tariff reciprocity system lookSouth Asia is being born, but not ing forward toward an eventual
the New Order which Tokyo seeks free trade like that among the
to impose. states of this country.
Our first task in helping the East5- Aids to labo^ unionism and colern peoples to create this New Orlective bargaining, so vital to the
der is obviously to defeat Japan so growth of industry,
thoroughly that her militarism and Constructive efforts through
expansionism can never be revived. mechanization, where possible,
To prevent revival such terms as more scientific agriculture, betthe following should be imposed: ^er transportation, etc., to raise
1. Surrender of all Japanese warthe standard of living among the
ships, combat planes, and milimillions tilling the soil. This retary equipment; dismantling of gin has been always arid will
all Japanese fortifications; decontinue probably for a long
mobilization of her armed forces. time, as a largely agricultural
2. Surrender of all Japanese held section of the earth,
territory on the mainland and in Development of an ideology of
the Pacific islands not part of the democracy through extension of
main Japanese group. education. This is one of the
3. Occupation of a half dozen more greatest tasks facing such a
of the principal Japanese cities. Council. Especially is this true
4. Internment of all senior Japanthe light of present conditions
ese officers of the Army and in China and India for instance.
Navy to prevent future General each case with populations
Staff planning. about four times that of the Unit5. Demobilized Japanese forces to States about one-fourth as
be used in the devastated secmany students are enrolled in
tions of China, particularly, as schools, or one-sixteenth as many
labor battalions. Per capita. Moreover, in addition
6. United Nations control of Japanto this tremendous quantitative
ese industry, shipping, and shiptask is the qualitative problem of
building facilities. what kind of education in each
7. Transfer of Japanese foreign incountry and section and by
vestments to the governments whom set up and administered,
where they existfor example, The writer realizes how easy it is
heavy Japanese holdings in to set up blue-prints for other peoChina to be returned to the Chinpies progress, how difficult it is to
ese government. carry them out. He realizes how
8. Strict limitations on the Japanenormous are the problems ahead in
ese government, especially on the mighty Far East. On the other
education, until it is apparent hand, what possibilities lie ahead
that a type of government has Continued on page 3

---------------------------------------------------

TUESDAY, JUNE 27, 1944THE CARNEGIE TARTAN3
One of the Freshmen
Gerald Samson Comes From France
Members of both the faculty and 
the student body have expressed 
amazement at the talent and intel
ligence which is already being 
shown on campus by the new fresh
man class. One of the most inter
esting boys in the class is Gerald 
Samson from Paris, France. The 
story of Geralds escape from the 
Nazis in his homeland is one of 
those tales of fear and heartbreak 
which we find difficult to believe 
and impossible to realize when we 
hear them in our own peaceful land. 
But his story and the other stories 
of the many refugees are true.
Gerald was just about twelve 
years old when the Germans first 
invaded his country. He was at
tending the Lycee Pasteur, a school 
in Neuilly, a part of Paris. When 
word came that the military situa
tion was becoming dangerous, his 
people sent him to visit his grand
mother in Lyon. Here he went to 
a school corresponding in curricu
lum to our American High Schools. 
They gave him a gun and taught 
him how to use it. He was twelve 
years old and man enough to go in
to the fields with the old men and 
the boys to shoot the German para
chutists as they came down from 
the sky. When you see the first 
paratrooper, something happens and 
you cant shoot, but after you shoot 
one its all right. Then its like 
shooting ducks. Lyon was about 
five miles behind the German ad
vance at the time. Reconnaisance 
patrols of Nazis would often come 
through the village. The French 
soldiers fought them with clods of 
earth and stones because they had 
no guns.
One day Gerald played truant 
from his English class and went for 
a stolen swim. His grandmother 
sent a message calling him home at 
once. He expected a severe scoldin, but instead he was told he was 
going to Spain at once. Geralds fa
ther, a Captain in the French army, 
got a 48-hour leave in order to start 
him on his journey. He accompan
ied the boy as far as his short leave 
would permit and then put him un
der the care of an Army friend. On 
the trip south, the two slept one 
night with the discouraged French 
soldiers retreating from the Hun. 
When his army friend had gone as 
far as possible with the boy, a kind
ly woman, who was fleeing with her 
two children, took him under her 
wing. They traveled on bicycles, 
by car, by bus, and even on foot.
They were afraid. When the little 
party finally reached the Spanish 
border, they were forced to wait 
two weeks in the little town of 
Perpignan for visas to cross. In 
Spain they were not permitted to 
remain long in any one place but 
were rushed to the Portuguese fron
tier. A friend of Geralds family 
obtained permission for his cross
ing, but the woman and her chil
dren were forced to return to the 
Nazis in France. Crossing the Por
tuguese border was like passing 
from night into day. There was 
food to eat and freedom to speak. 
Gerald was sheltered while there in 
the castle of his friend where he 
was treated like a prince.
After many complications and de
lays, the way was finally clear for 
the boy to go to America. His old 
grandmother didnt want him to go 
for she felt that if he ever crossed 
the ocean, he would never return. 
At last when the fall of Paris was 
imminent, she gave her consent and 
he sailed on the ship Excambion.
The only things Gerald can re
member about his arrival in New 
York are the beauty of the sky
line and how very glad he was to 
reach land. The big city was ex
citing to him as it is to every new
comer. The automats were particu
larly amazing and his introduction 
to popcorn delightful.
After three years in this country, 
Gerald has become a real Ameri
can. He stood high in his Senior 
class in high school, was in the Na
tional Honor Society, and was VicePresident of his class. Here at Car
negie he is studying Electrical En
gineering and is already taking part 
in campus life by pledging SAE.
Although he likes it in this coun
try, Gerald wants to return to 
France after the war to build a 
career. His grandmother is still 
there in Lyon, and the memory of 
his father who was killed in Africa 
is there too.
First Tartan Editor 
Dies In Beverly Hills
Frederick E. Foster, E08, organ
izer and first Editor-in-Chief of the 
Tartan, died at his home in Beverly 
Hills, California, at noon Thursday, 
June 15, 1944. He was captain of 
the first football team at Carnegie, 
president of the Freshman and Jun
ior Class, one of the organizers and 
editors of the first Thistle and a 
member of Sigma Tau Fraternity.
At the time of his death, he was 
Managing Director of the California 
Oil and Gas Association and Man
ager of the Pacific Coast Petroleum 
Industries Committee. He was mar
ried and had two children, one boy 
and one girl.
Associated Artists Elect 
MacGilvary President
Professor Norwood MacGilvary 
was elected new president of the 
Associated Artists of Pittsburgh last 
Thursday, June 22. Professor Mac
Gilvary has been teaching at Carne
gie Tech for twenty-three years in 
the department of Painting and De
sign, and has been an active mem
ber of the Associated Artists of 
Pittsburgh for many years.
The retiring president, Joseph B. 
Ellis, who is the head of the Sculp
ture Department, was appointed a 
member of the board of directors; 
and C. Kermit Ewing, also a Paint
ing and Design teacher and former 
Carnegie Prize winner, was voted 
secretary.
Outlook...
Continued from Page 2 
for future cultural interchange, 
trade, mutual development, peace, 
and prosperity if the Western na
tions can learn the lesson of coop
eration with each other and with 
the peoples of the East and, in turn, 
if the Eastern peoples can learn the 
same lesson. With cooperation all 
around, President Theodore Roose
velts prophecy that the future of 
the human race for the next five 
hundred years rests largely in the 
Pacific will seem less like a night
mare and more like a vision of hope.
Fine Arts Students 
Entertain Wounded 
Veterans At Deshon
A group of Carnegie Fine Arts 
students, headed by Dorothy King, 
sculpture student, and including 
Louise Koenig, Charlotte Everstine, 
Irene Waichler, and Frances Cox 
Sankey, spend each Sunday after
noon sketching the portraits of 
wounded veterans at Deshon Gen
eral Hospital in Butler.
The project, arranged by Sam A. 
Rankin, head of the USO Center in 
Sharon, is the first organized artist 
group to visit Deshon. Eleven art
ists were in the group, which will 
be supplemented in the future by 
invalid veterans. The project will 
continue as long as their success 
and the gas shortage warrants.
Dr. Webster Jones 
Speaks To A.S.M.E.
Dr. Webster N. Jones, director of 
the College of Engineering, address
ed the American Society of Me
chanical Engineers at its semi-an
nual luncheon on June 22. In no 
uncertain terms he emphasized the 
important part the engineers of this 
country must play in the post-war 
world. According to Dr. Jones, the 
engineers have left the problems of 
government to lawyers and politi
cians. Cultural activities have been 
neglected. Dr. Jones asks, Are en
gineers losing their pioneering spir
it? Are they losing sight of their 
goals?
With this challenge Dr. Jones out
lined the means of guidance the en
gineers have at hand to make the 
most of their neglected responsi
bilities. In addition to the Bill of 
Rights, Magna Carta, and others, 
the Atlantic Charter serves as an 
excellent expression of human 
goals. In addition to the Freedom 
of Worship, Freedom of Speech, 
Freedom from Want, and Freedom 
from Fear, Dr. Jones offers a fifth 
freedom, Freedom of Action, more 
commonly known as Freedom of 
Enterprise.
Have a Coca-Cola = Pukka Gen
(SWELL INFO.)
...or a way to make friends in the R. A. F.
Have a Coke" are words that can seal the bonds of friendship as 
quickly in Plymouth, England, as in Plymouth, Mass. Its an offer 
as welcome on an English airfield as it is in your own living room; 
Around the globe, Coca-Cola is spreading the custom of the pause 
that refreshes,has become a happy symbol of good-hearted friend* 
liness in many lands.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OF THE COCA-COIA COMPANY Y
COCA-COLA BOTTLING COMPANY, PITTSBURGH, * A.
It's natural for popular names 
to acquire friendly abbrevia
tions. Thats why you hear 
Coca-Cola called Coke".
RODGERS
DAIRY STORES
MILK SHAKES
Made from Pure Whole Milk for only 15c
We Do Not Use Skim Milk.

NEAREST STORES LOCATED
------AT------
3905 FORBES STREET
Near Bouquet Street
4619 CENTER AVENUE 
Near Craig Street

---------------------------------------------------

4THE. CARNEGIE TARTANTUESDAY, JUNE 27, 1944
6470 Monitor St. HA. 0193
Let's go to
ISALY'S
MELK SHAKES 
BIG ICE CREAM COINES
KLONDIKES 
TASTY LUNCHES
Three Stores in the College 
District
5808 Forbes Street, Squirrel Hill 
3714 Forbes Street, Oakland
MAIN PLANT:
3880 Boulevard of the Allies
Frat Pledges
Continued from page 1 
Jim Haushalter 
Earle Young 
Sigma Alpha Epsilon:
Dale Wright 
Millard Brown 
Michael Frang 
Joe Daveck 
Gino Lazzery 
 Gerald Samson
David Fleck
Ray Beecher 
Louis Madonna 
Tau Delta Phi:
Richard Landman 
Bernard Adler 
Eugene Seder 
Sam Marcus 
Robert Goldstein
Theta Xi:
John Bradfute 
Fred Owens 
Lou Umbach 
Floyd Allison
The Vacuum Cleaner Presents the Seniors
Fort Pitt is the Place
to Rent
TYPEWRITERS
ALL
MAKES
ATlantic 8320 
644 LIBERTY AVENUE
C. S. EDMAN
PRINTER
Yeakel and Riddel
Bob RiddellShe has to be beautiful, with a pleasing personality, and 
be intelligent. She must know how, and like to have a good time.
Alan Yeakel  Well, if she cooks, has a sense of humor, is healthy, 
likes things that I like and more, and is talkative at the right times, Id 
call her an ideal wife.
$3.00 per 
Month
FORT PITT
TYPEWRITER CO.
By E. P. H.
This week the graduating seniors were the targets of the Inquiring 
Photographer, and naturally, the question was of great social significance. 
The question  What is your conception of your future ideal wife? Some 
answers to the question were serious, others were in the humorous vein, 
but continue and see the results for yourself.
Winckler Nelesen
Dick WincklerAll that is necessary is that I like her and she likes me. 
A1 NelesenShe must be a good companion and a good drinking 
buddy.
Oily SarosdyMy wife has to be blond, beautiful, and have emotions. 
Burt FaigenShe has to be beautiful plus a terrific personality. Of 
course I have to get along with her, and she must let me on the prowl 
every now and then.
Dick ConnellyI only ask that she be blond and built.
McTigue
John KellyShe has to be intelligent, tall, pretty, and definitely has 
to cook.
Tom McTigueId like her to be smaller than I, agreeable, a good cook, 
and nice-looking but not beautiful.
Gene BishoffBlond, beautiful, personality, and passionate.
Sid MillstoneThere is just one qualification that I havent found in 
a woman as yetone who likes me.
Bill RobbinsShe has to treat me nicely, be swell, and easy going.
Mai FestensteinNorene. Thats all.
