Volume 80, Number 22
March 18, 1980
TARTAN
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Student votes in Student Government elections held last Wednesday and Thursday
S.G. elections contested
BULLETIN
The Student Government elections held last week have been contested. Based on the 
following interview, Sue Borg and Jim Balsom filed a complaint with Student Senate 
Chairperson Mike Inners this past Sunday charging several violations of Roberts Rules 
of Order and the Bylaws of Student Senate (see page 5 for the text of the letter).
In response to the complaint, Senate will not meet in regular session tonight, but will 
instead convene a special Election Appeals Board, open to all students, tonight at 
6:30 PM in the Wherrett Room.
(The following article is based on an inter
view conducted by TARTAN Managing 
Editor Smita Pai and Contributing Editor 
Ken Kulak the Thursday night after the 
elections.)
As the ballots of last weeks elections 
began to be counted late Thursday evening, 
the TARTAN became aware of violations 
of Senate by-laws and procedures over the 
two-day election period. Stuart Schlisserman first contacted the TARTAN, which 
then arranged for a meeting between 
Schlisserman, John Alexander, Nina 
Houska, Senators Michael Inners (Chair
person of Senate) and Kim Ames (in charge 
of elections). David Olsen, a Senator from 
MIS, accompanied Nina Houska.
The x TARTAN began discussion by 
stating that there were several questionable 
events which occured over the two days. 
Inners and Ames stressed that, if a protest 
is filed, it will be completely investigated 
by the Eli ction Appeals Board, and any 
action deemed necessary would be taken. 
Together, the TARTAN, Senators, and 
candidates went over the potential viola
tions.
Was the Science Hall polling booth 
unmanned on Wednesday, from 9 AM to 
1:30PM?
According to Jim Foster, a Senator and 
poll worker, two students came to him 
early Wednesday afternoon complaining 
that there was no one supervising the ballot 
box in Science Hall. The TARTAN was 
unable to determine the exact state of the 
booth during this time, and questioned 
the Senate leaders about it.
There was no booth, there was 
nothing, replied Kim Ames. We couldnt 
get anybody to work. Inners and Ames 
stressed that there was no ballot box or 
voting slips left unsupervised at the 
Science Hall locations.
What, if any, were the problems with 
GSO and the polls?
Several' students contacted have testi
fied to several ethical if not legal questions 
concerning the Graduate Student Organi
zations actions during the elections. After 
a meeting with all the candidates on 
Monday of last week, GSO chose to 
endorse Nina Houska for President, and
Houska wins election
by Pete Levin
With a 37.1% voter turnout, the largest 
in the schools history, CMU elected last 
week a president and seventeen represen
tatives to fill, vacant seats in Student Sen
ate.
Nina Houska passed John Alexander 
and Stuart Schlisserman to capture the
presidency with 554 votes as opposed to 
Alexanders 521 and Schlissermans 501 
tally. Excited about her victory, Houska 
promised to try to unite the different 
factions at CMU into one voice which the 
administration can respond to. She is also 
looking for better Senate-Student com
munications.
The Senate seats in MIS will be occupied 
by Peter Fine (156), Art Benjamin (121), 
and Ray Planinsic'(119). David Zalkin 
(86) and incumbant David Olsen (99) were 
not elected. In H&SS, the seats will be 
taken by the (Mary) Watson-(Rick) Sabol 
Ticket. Each polled 156 and 121 votes 
respectively. Felicia Pratto with 65 votes 
and former chairperson Ralph Sherman
with 94 votes lost the election.
87 votes separated the candidates from 
CIT. The six open seats will be filled by 
Mark Cenkus (340), Kevin Kelly (331), 
Mike Fryd (299), Soterios Papoulas(296), 
Henry Thorne (279), and David Huchette 
(263). Raymond Mialki lost with 253 
votes.
The College of Fine Arts will be repre
sented by Jim Collyer (174), and will 
send write-in candidates Richard Hanusek, 
Theresa Leahey, and Jim Foster for ap
proval before Senate. AMS will send writeins Rick Mueller and John Biggio for Senate 
approval before they take their seats.
In the A Phi O/Food Service referen
dum, A PHI 0 recieved nearly 90% of the 
vote, the count being 1513 to 75.
The high turnout for the election was 
attributed to the TARTAN special election 
issue, election year excitment, and general 
enthusiasm from the student body to elect 
a more responsible Senate for next year. 
The 37.1% figure nearly doubles that of 
any previous election.
proceeded to print over a hundred posters 
(The GSO supports Nina 'Houska) using 
Computer Science Department computing 
machinery.
These posters were placed ai least 20 
feet away from the polls in Science Hall 
and in the GSIA lobby (those in violation 
were torn down by Ames). According to a 
Science Hall poll-worker, graduate students 
who said they didnt know whom to vote 
for were directed by GSO members to GSO 
posters or were escorted (again by GSO 
members) twenty feet away from the pol
ling area and then told whom to vote for. 
Bob Metz, Chairperson of GSO, was also 
a poll-worker in Science Hall on Thursday 
afternoon.
There is also a question of GSO people 
working the pools in GSIA. At 11:30 on 
Thursday, Walt Young of GSIA (and GSO, 
and Senate) was working the polling tables, 
with Senator Connie Smith voluntarily 
assisting him. Also at the table was Stuart 
Schlisserman, discussing the election in 
general with Walt Young, and Tim Ryan, a 
GSIA student.
As several students came up to vote, one 
asked Whom Should I vote for? and 
Ryan replied, The GSO supports Nina. 
Walt Young told Ryan that he mustnt say 
that so near the polls, but this scenario 
occured two more times before Ryan 
left at Youngs request. According to 
Young in a telephone interview^ when 
these students were asked whether they 
had been affected by Ryan, they replied 
no.
We did not expect GSO [to do this], 
said Ames. We did not expect posters, 
or anything [like what happened].
What are the details of the incidents at 
Donner, Morewood, and Skibo polls?
Nina Houska stated that in Donner a 
person hanging around the polls would,as 
they [students] were voting for me, pull 
them aside and make them change their 
vote to Stu or John. Houska also reported 
that an RA. in Morewood told students at 
the polls to vote for Schlisserman or 
Alexander, and not her. A similar event 
occured last Wednesday, when two More
wood students were approached at the
- ------- Continued on page 5
MG rec room entered
Morewood Gardens Recreation Room 
has been the site of suspicious vandalism 
for the past two weeks. On three different 
occasions, the hinge pins were removed 
from the Morewood Gardens Rec Room 
door leading to the cafeteria.
On March 6, at 2:25 AM, the Morewood 
Gardens monitor called Campus Police to 
report that three hinge pins had been re
moved from the Rec Room door. Ken 
Beasly, the desk monitor, and the two 
officers replaced the pins. The occurrence 
was listed by the police as having criminal 
intent.
On the following night, the pins were 
removed again. Apparently they had not
been properly pounded in the night before. 
A maintenance report was filed and the 
door was later repaired.
For the third time, on March 10 at 6:55 
AM, the pins were removed. They were 
again repaired, this time correctly. The 
apparent motive for the break-in was to 
take plastic party cups which were found 
to be missing from the kitchen storeroom.
Due to 
of April,
Juniors - Tues. April-8 
Sophomores - We.
Freshmen - Thurs. April 10

---------------------------------------------------

Work for respect
November 20, 1973
April 6, 1976
April 13, 1976
March 13, 1980
A TARTAN reporter voted twice 
in the Mens Dorm constituency. Once 
as a commuter, once as a graduate. 
A companion managed to vote in the 
women's dorm constituency even 
though he is mat. "
. . ROUSSOS CONTESTS ELEC
TION. In a petition he and his sup
porters distributed Friday, he claims 
that the election laws were violated 
five times. 
SG ELECTION DECLARED VOID 
In a precedent-setting decision, a 
special Appeals Board of Student 
Senate voted to nullify the Student 
Government Presidential election ..."
SG ELECTIONS CONTESTED. The 
Student Government Elections held 
last week have been contested ..."
The main difference between this year and other years is 
the forty percent turnoutat least twice the normal voting 
body in most past elections. Its great to see that people are 
starting to show concern for their student government. It 
seems only natural, then, that students will be concerned 
about the violations of Student Government constitutional 
by-laws and election procedures.
The main complaints cited in the letter contesting the 
election (see page 5) show that Student Senate was not 
aware of its own rules. Many senators, however, feel that 
re-running the election will severely damage Senates image: 
they feel that it would make Student Government look like 
a joke.
The TARTAN disagrees. Senate must be able to acknowl
edge a mistake, and take their organization seriously enough 
to not build a new Senate on an illegal election. If Senate 
cannot view themselves with enough pride to do this, how 
can the student body view Student Government?
The fact that an unprecedented forty percent of the 
Student body took the initiative to vote means that stu
dents may be willing to support their governing body. But 
that same body must prove that they are deserving of 
student support. Re-run the election. Get rid of all allega
tions of foul-play. Give the new Student Government a 
chance to start with a clean slatewithout it there can never 
be any respect for Student Government.Tackle the problem
The Educational Affairs Council of the Faculty Senate 
is currently preparing a resolution on mandatory teaching 
evaluations to be presented at the Faculty Senate meeting 
on April 3rd. (See TARTAN 3/4/80) ,
The TARTAN agrees that there should be a standardized 
evaluation of teaching. As students, and consumers, we are 
entitled to know that the product we are purchasing is up 
to par. But teaching evaluations alone wont accomplish 
very much.
To achieve excellence in teaching, a university must make 
a real commitment. Signs of such a commitment are rewards 
for good teaching, continued work to improve poor teach
ing, and an environment where good teaching and good 
learning can easily take place. One need only walk through 
Baker Hall (or Doherty, or Science, or any other building on 
this campus) to see that the administration of this Univer
sity has made no such commitment.
There is only one teaching award, the Ryan, and it is 
given to one faculty member out of over five hundred. A 
Faculty Development program was funded and staffed a few 
years ago, and then quietly disappeared. There is currently 
no program to help any faculty who may need improvement 
in teaching methodology.
Student and faculty are tossed into an environment 
of classrooms without chalk and erasers, with no heat 
(or too much heat), crowded into lecture halls without 
lecterns or public address systems, consigned to audio
visual support systems which dont work or dont arrive at 
the scheduled locations at the scheduled times  . . and we 
could go on, and on, and on.
How can anyone expect excellence in teaching at a uni
versity that provides no incentive to strive for excellence? 
What is the point of evaluating teaching if the results will 
not be used constructively? (So we can say that we did it?) 
And how can we expect quality learning, let alone 
quality teaching, to take place in the uncaring environ
ment that each new freshman class inherits?
The TARTAN suggests that the University as a whole 
take a good look at itself. It would be hypocritical to 
demand good teaching and mandatory teaching evaluations 
when all the indicators point to the fact the Administration 
doesnt seem to care about teaching. Tackle the whole prob, lemwe are tired of symbolic actions that dont solve anyj thing at all. If we are ever to join the ranks of the truly 
great learning institutions in this country, we can ask for
nothing less. , ,- P i ' ! > ' . f.3 1 * tj. / : <5 I * ).). ' i Ml 1  I
Backs tabbing?
Dear Editor:
I am writing this letter before I 
know the results of the election in 
response to the distorted letter 
that appeared in the previous issue 
of the TARTAN.
The reader should first of all 
realize the background of my 
rather controversial statement. I 
was asked at the SDC meeting 
whether or not I thought the 
TARTAN should endorse a candi
date. In response to this, I stated 
that I was vehemently against it 
because the TARTAN was the 
major source for the campus. I 
also stated that in past elections, 
those reports printed by the 
TARTAN had influenced quite a
few people who did not know any 
of the candidates. They would 
take what the TARTAN said as a 
guideline in their voting automa
tically without considering that the 
TARTAN might possibly have its 
own biased reasons for supporting 
a particular candidate. I thought 
that it would be very unfair to the 
other candidates.
I made several other comments 
along this line and in a statement 
comparing TARTAN to other 
available news Sources on this 
campus, I said that unfortunately 
no one really listens to WRCT. 
This statement was made because 
of the fact that WRCT has not 
been able to reach half the popu
lation of this campus in the past
letters
because they live off-campus or 
commute. Where as very, very, 
few people do not stop and pick 
up a TARTAN.
I made no comments at all 
about the programming that is 
presented by the station, and I 
would also like to state that I too 
do listen to WRCT on occasion. If 
I thought that no one listened to 
WRCT period, then why would I 
have made arrangements for a pro
gram which Senate chairpersons, 
the President of SDC, and the 
President of UFO appeared in an 
attempt to make students more 
aware of what their student gov
ernment does?
The timing of the unfortunate 
letter was beautiful as far as my
TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number.21 
March 11, 1980
News Editor: 
Features Editor: 
Entertainment Editor: 
Contributing Editors:
Editor-in-Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
Associate Editor: 
Production Manager: 
Jim Balsom 
Renee Rosenfeld 
Richard Gorelick 
Michael Brzustowicz,
Jean Pellegrini
Susan Borg 
Smita Pai 
Karen Stevens 
Doug Kirsop 
Ed Zayas
Sports Editor 
Dossier Editor: 
Photography Editor: 
Art Director:
Wesley Seeley 
Lynn Epstein 
Robert Zusman 
Tom Hart
News: Jeanne Abmayr. Assistant Editor; Beth Arden, Jim Bost, Jeanette Bryan, Linda Dickerson. Larry Duffee, Ed 
Frankenberry, Chris Gebhardt, Dan florgan, Andre Jenkins, Mark' Kennet, Kim Kunkle, Pete Levin, Joshua Medvin, 
Elliot Ohlberg, Andy Ragan, Vernon Valentine.
Features: Paul Karmin, Norman Katz, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Audrey Mojinie.
Entertainment: Paul Banks, Melody Mazzie, Alan Spero, Assistant Editors; Kate Bertrand, Alex Czajkowski, Bob Henry,
Dave Kirby, Timothy LeVan, James Patterson, Mignon Habmeau, Scott Schaeffer, Ted Srriits, Karen Stevens.
Sports: Perry Colosimo, Randy Condon, Pat Krump, Laurie Southorn, Skip Thrope, Denny Postufka, Leslie Weiser. 
Production: K. MacPhee Kulak, Assistant Manager, Michael Br/ustowicz, Beth Kurtz.
Photography: Larry Duffee, Jenny Ladd.
Art: Robert Conroy, Tom Megalis, Dave Robinson.
Copyright 1980 by the Carnegie-Melloo University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right to 
edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Government 
of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 24-hour an
swering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-21 H. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, Pittsburgh, PA 15206
:*7T7<7T77-T-rr

---------------------------------------------------

views
The role of the ombudsman: communication
This View From the Top was 
written by Richard B. Barnhart, 
Ombudsman and Assistant to the 
President.
The role of the university om
budsman is primarily one devoted 
to a reconciliation of differences. 
Since President Cyert appointed 
me the university ombudsman 
in June, 1976, I have dealt with 
46 cases involving students and 
staff of the university. The pur
pose is to work out the differ
ences that these people have en
countered with their supervisors 
or the administration.
A brief explanation of what 
the procedure is might prove help
ful to you in the event that you 
have a problem which you think 
is unresolvable. Take, for exam
ple, an employee who is unhappy 
with a work situation. Perhaps he 
or she cannot get along with a co
worker. That employee can come
opponents were concerned, be
cause there was no way that I 
could possibly respond to it. I 
think that it might appear that the 
editor who printed this letter right 
before the election without giving 
a candidate for president either a 
chance to respond to it in the 
same issue or at least informing 
the candidate of its existance 
might be thought to be supporting 
another candidate.
There are also two other things 
that I would like to address to my 
opponents in this past election. 
The first is that I thought that it 
was absolutely amazing how the 
majority of almost 150 posters 
put up all over campus were eith
er torn down or defaced within 
less than 24 hours of their posting 
while another candidates posters 
remained in tact.
The second is the many very 
blatant distortions of the truth or 
down right lies that went around 
campus about one candidates and 
not about the others. Considering 
my friends turned around and 
told me what was said to them 
when they were approached by 
my competition I have no doubts 
about their origins.
I was very upset by these 
occurances. I had hoped that such 
petty backstabbing would not 
occur in this election. If my com
petition felt so threatened by me, 
maybe they should have recon
sidered their own qualifications or 
their campaign techniques. It was 
bad enough to try to destroy my 
reputation on this campus, but I 
especially did not appreciate sim
ilar references to my friends or 
sorority sisters. I would also like 
to convince my competition to 
keep their RA friends from stand
ing right beside the polls in the 
future and trying to convince 
people in the process of voting for 
me change their votes. If they 
were going to do this, they should 
have at least followed the cam
paign rules and stood 20 feet 
away from the polls.
Respectfully yours, 
Nina Houska
to me and ask that I try to resolve 
the problem. Somtimes the em
ployee has discussed the problem 
with his or her supervisor and has 
got no satisfaction in that meet
ing. Other times, an employee pre
fers not to talk to the supervisor 
and would like to discuss the situ
ation with somebody who is neu
tral.
I maintain complete neutrality 
since I believe that I should not be 
swayed one way or the other on 
either the employees or the 
supervisors behalf.
I hear what the employee has 
to say first and then, with that 
persons permission, contact the 
supervisor. Sometimes the matter 
can be resolved quite simply by 
arranging a meeting with the su
pervisor, the employee in ques
tion, and the other employee who 
is involved in this unhappy work 
situation. With employees per
mission, I also alert President Cy
ert and Richard L. Van Horn, 
Vice President for Management, 
so that the employee knows that 
the administration of the univer
sity is aware of the problem and is 
interested in the successful resolu
tion of it.
Often the problem is the result 
of a lack of communication be
tween the employee or student 
and the supervisor or member of 
the administration. The employee 
might feel that he cannot talk to 
his supervisor or the supervisor 
has not given him enough infor
mation. Sometimes, that informa
tion is not what the employee 
wants to hear. Generally, though, 
employees and students are will
ing to come to me for a meeting 
because, as Assistant to the Presi
dent, I can let President Cyert 
know quickly what the problem 
is.
What must be Stressed, how
ever, is that students or employees 
must have gone through all the 
proper levels of the administration 
before coming to me. This step 
is important so that the office di
rectly responsible for the resolu
tion of the problem has an oppor
tunity to try to solve the problem 
before the student or employee 
comes to see me. If all the appro
priate levels have been contacted, 
and the student or employee feels 
that the problem has not been re
solved, then he or she can come to 
me for a resolution.
Students come to me with a 
variety of problems for resolution, 
including housing and some aca
demic matters. Staff members are 
the larger group to request meet
ings. Their concerns often are 
with the abolishment of a job, job 
assignments and classifications, 
job posting procedures, salary, or
benefits. At no time do I bypass 
Personnel Advisory Services in dis
cussing or resolving these matters. 
The points to remember are:
1. Discuss the problem openly 
with you supervisor or your de
partment head or dean. 2. Talk to 
all level of the administration be
fore coming to me. You should 
allow those people an opportu
nity to solve your difficulty.
3. Know that I am willing to 
help you in resloving your prob
lem but that the success of this 
office depends on the coopera
tion of everyonesupervisor, uni
versity administration, and you as 
a student or employee.
Carnegie-Mellon University is
interested in the well-being of all 
its constituencies. The role of the
ombudsman is to help assure that 
this sense of well-being continues. 
With the cooperation of every
body involved, we will succeed.
Take it seriously
Editor:
It is Thursday night and the 
ballots are being counted.
Prior to final tabulation of the 
results of the Senate elections, 
we approached the Election Board 
and the TARTAN to inform them 
of inconsistencies in voting proce
dures, illegalities breaching Senate 
Bylaws and general unethical con
duct of many individuals involved 
with the election. Miss Houska 
was invited and also attended this 
meeting. We asked, before any 
results were fully tabulated and 
published, that the elections be 
recalled. We are informed no 
action could be taken until after 
the results were published. We 
then asked Miss Houska to join us, 
our argument being no matter 
who won, the election was illegal; 
she declined. Since Miss Houska 
apparently believes her qualifica
tions far supass bur own, we had 
to question why she would not 
want another election to be held. 
She must agree with us that in 
order to get Senate back on its 
feet again, one does not build 
on an illegal election.
Senate has been considered 
by many students (and unfortu
nately themselves) to be a circus 
an organization that does little 
good and frustrates individuals 
who attempt to do something 
constructive. How can students 
take Senate seriously if Senate 
accepts an election which violates 
its own rules and anyones code of 
ethics? If Senate does take itself 
seriously, they have no choice but 
to recall the election. If Senate 
takes itself seriously, perhaps so 
will the student body.
John Alexander 
Stuart Schlisserman
Freely thinking
Editor:
What has happened to free 
speech and free thought at CMU? 
The Student Senate impeached 
my Student Government Presi
dent for no clear violations of the 
constitution. Judging from the ar
ticle in the TARTAN, Sibley was 
impeached because he did not 
hold thoughts which were consis
tent with the majority of CMU 
students. Unless the Senate Con
stitution specifically states that 
the President is a delegate rather 
than a trustee, Scott Sibley should 
not be held responsible if he does 
not hold the same views as the 
people he represents. A delegate 
is an elected official who repre
sents the opinions of his con
stituents rather than his person
al opinions. The converse of a 
delegate is a trustee.
Mr. Crumps statement of 
charges did not indicate the man
ner in which Sibley committed 
an unconstitutional offence. Per
sonally, I do not think that miss
ing 3 out of 29 meetings should 
have even been treated as grounds 
for impeachment. In fact, it seems 
odd that Sibley was impeached 
with only a few weeks remaining 
in his term. Was he impeached 
because he went to Washington 
when someone else felt that they 
should have gone? Anyone with a 
personal whim could easily collect 
the 500 mis-guided signatures 
needed for impeachment. In my 
opinion, this matter represented 
nothing more than a personal dis
pute between the treasurer and 
the president.
I realize that this magic num
ber is specified in the constitu
tion, but how long has it been 
since the constitution has been re
vised? Five-hundred signatures 
was a large percentage of students 
ten years ago, but today it is less 
that 15% of the student body. As 
a basis of comparison, the U.S. 
Constitution states that the House 
of Representatives can impeach 
the President with a 2/3 vote. Al
though voting for impeachment 
and petitioning for impeachment 
are two distinct procedures, it 
would seem reasonable that more 
than 15% of the students should 
decide the fate of our President.
Forgive me, Mr. Inners, for 
comparing the U.S. Constitution 
with the Student Senate Consti
tution. 1 forgot that the Student 
Senate is not affected by the U.S. 
Constitution. After reading about 
the Senate objecting to the 
TARTANs endorsement of a can
didate, I am beginning to think
that the Senate really believes that 
they are above the rights guaran
teed by the U.S. Constitution. It 
is interesting to note that the 
resolution to censor was presented 
by the same person who led the 
impeachment inquisition, Pat 
Crump. I think a viewpoint 
written by him would make for 
very interesting reading. Mr. 
Crump, the Senate gives my 
money to the TARTAN, and as 
far as Im concerned they can 
print anything which the laws of 
our nation permit. We, as resi
dents of the United States of 
America, all are affected by the 
U.S. Constitution. That we 
includes the Student Senate.
To those people who wear 
green jackets and live at the 
corner of Forbes and Morewood:
I am opposed to draft registration, 
and if you want to beat me up for 
expressing my opinion I am listed 
in the CBook. By the way, if 
you are willing to fight for the 
chance to become soldiers then 
why havent you enlisted? The 
army will pay you to be hostile, 
just contact your local recruiter.
Michael Herskovitz 
Gtizen
Selling yourselfEditor:
Having read the editorial on 
the Senates request to not en
dorse a candidate, the two car
toons jabbing at the Senate, and 
the quotation from Pink Floyd 
(p. 8) in the March 11 edition, I 
feel it is my turn.
lepers that endorse candidates 
are risking their credibility with 
their readers-because I, for one, 
dont believe that opinions stay 
on the editorial page. As the only 
campus newspaper at CMU, the 
TARTAN has a responsibility to 
give a view that is as unbiased as 
possible, since we have no other 
source of campus news.
Some may feel that if papers in 
the real world can endorse can
didates, school newspapers should 
also be able to endorse issues and 
candidates. There is a significant 
difference between commercial 
and school newspapers, however, 
and the key word is commercial. 
The TARTAN receives money
from the activities fee, which is 
paid by all full-time students. 
Commercial newspapers, on the 
other hand, sell space and their 
final productthus they support 
themselves. If the TARTAN be
comes self-supporting, it may 
endorse all it pleases, but until 
then, I hope the staff remembers 
that it is our newspapernot 
theirs.
Sheri J. Dumire *81
(Editor's note: The TARTAN 
receives nearly half its funding 
from commercial and student 
advertising.)
More on doors
Editor:
For the sake of clarification 
and out of concern for the resi
dents of Morewood Gardens, I 
feel that a reply must be made to 
Jim Balsoms article, Fire Doors 
Cause Problems, (March 4, 
1980). Mr. Balsom has omitted a 
great deal of vital information 
from his report which I believe 
readers should be permitted to 
share.
1) Mr. Balsom neglected to 
mention that I contacted him 
initially after learning that he had 
raised questions in regard to the 
operation of the electric strike 
doors and a false fire signal oc
curring at Morewood Gardens on 
February 11. During our conver
sation I explained that the as
sumption that the electric strikes 
should always release on a false 
signal was not correct. The signal 
described in the Security report 
may have been caused by a minor 
mechanical /electric problem not 
associated with the doors, or by 
someones unsuccessful attempt 
toward interference with the fire 
alarm system in order to gain 
access through one of the elec
tronically locked doors.
2) The electric strike doors are 
designed to unlock immediately 
on any true (pulled) fire alarm 
signal, or power outage. When I 
spoke with Mr. Balsom I ex
pressed confidence that these 
doors would release under such 
emergency conditions. This was 
proven in his presence two days 
later when a test of the complete

---------------------------------------------------

system was conducted success
fully. The test was not conducted 
on the day of our phone conver
sation ' because I insisted that resi
dents be given adequate notice 
(through the Residence Life 
office) which would include the 
time and date of the test.
3) A CMU electrician was on 
hand when the test was conducted 
and together we provided Jim and 
yourself with a complete descrip
tion of the systems operation. A 
C-Tower pull station and not the 
general alarm station located 
in the B-Tower was activated 
during the test and Mr. Balsom 
was able to see that all electronic 
doors released properly.
While we have experienced a 
few problems related to the elec
tric strikes in the past, these have 
been attributed mainly to theif 
original installation and have been 
promptly corrected. At present, 
an improvement in the wiring for 
these doors is being carried out in 
a manner which will not effect 
their operation while the work is 
being done. I hope that the infor
mation contained in this letter 
will help to provide readers with 
a clearer picture of the Univer
sitys efforts toward maintaining 
and increasing safety on Campus.
Robert R. Anderegg 
University Safety Coordinator
(Editor's note: While we ac
knowledge the fact that the 
system worked as expected during 
your subsequent testing, the TAR - 
TAN still believes that if the fire 
alarm goes off, then the fire doors 
should open, regardless of the 
cause of the alarm signal.)
An outside view
Editor:
On February 6, 7, and 8, 
Kathryn E. Smith, Corporate 
Food Services Director for the 
Reynolds Metals Company of 
Richmond, Virginia visited the 
campus to observe the Univer
sitys Food Service Department. 
During the week of February 
18,1 received a private letter from 
Ms. Smith discussing her observa
tions.
During a telephone conversa
tion, Ms. Smith stated that her 
letter to me was written as a pri
vate communication and that she 
does not wish to make it available 
for publication. However, Ms. 
Smith has giVen me her permission 
to use excerpts from the letter for 
publication where they concern 
the Food Service Department. 
Therefore, the enclosed text in
cludes direct quotations from her 
letter of February 19.
The letter itself is a three page 
summary of Ms. Smiths impres
sions of the environment in which 
Food Service is expected to per
form and of the changes she sug
gests in order to improve our 
Food Service operations. I do not 
agree with everything in her letter 
and I have added my own com
ments following some of the quo
tations.
With respect to her comments 
on Food Service operations, Ms. 
Smiths letter is complete. Within 
the quoted excerpts, my editing 
has consisted of correcting names 
of Food Service locations, making 
grammatical inserts to clarify the 
text, and noting the points at 
which comments have been ommitted. The sense of the letter has 
not been affected by these 
changes.
Very truly yours,
O. H. Mayer, Director 
Auxiliary Services
(Editors note: The summary of 
Ms. Smiths letter is on page 6 of 
this issue of the TARTAN.)
An inside view
Editor:
I take pen in hand once again 
to protest the TARTANs treat
ment of the report received by 
Director Mayer, dealing with the 
Food Service problem.
Your editorial raises the most 
likely reason for the desire of Mr. 
Mayer and Mr. Eichmuller to want 
to edit the report, and then dis
misses the possibility without con
sidering it.
As the article said, Ms. Smith 
came to evaluate the management 
problems and situations at Food 
Service. Such a report would con
tain information about specific 
personnel, especially management 
personnel. Since the report was 
authorized by Mr. Mayer, any 
statement concerning the com
petence (or incompetence) of per
sonnel would be a matter that 
should be treated confidentially, 
just as any other entry on a per
sonnel file.
Another matter raised in the 
editorial is even more disturb
ing: the statement by the editor 
that he/she/it would not be satis
fied with anything less than an 
unabridged copy, even if it did 
contain information of a con
fidential matter.
While I agree that any,general 
statement about the overall quali
ty of management should be re
leased to the campus community, 
I cannot accept the reasoning be
hind the editorial. If specific com
ments concerning individuals are 
made, they are confidential per
sonnel evaluations. In a report 
of the type in question, editing 
such comments can be time con
suming, and, given the recent 
trend in privacy lawsuits, very 
important.
It is obvious from the tone of 
Mr. Mayers comments went be
yond what we hoped it would 
accomplish that he had agreed to 
have the study conducted, and 
was aware of what it might say. 
Since it deals with such a major 
campus organization, it would be 
a shame if the TARTAN refused 
to accept it for publication sim
ply because a few lines were 
missing.
Thomas E. Knapp 
Junior, Civ. E.
Greek Sting
Editor:
Im constantly amazed at the 
low levels some CMU students 
achieve in their day to day lives. 
It now seems that the only form 
of self-expression some are cap
able of is violence. Really, guys! 
To crash a benefit concert and 
start cracking heads. Anyone 
want to join the KKK?
Why is it that I most often see 
these same ATO members cheat
ing in classes, bullying anyone 
under 150 lbs., and generally 
displaying themselves as a herd of 
overgrown, obnoxious morons.
Whats the matter, guys? Have 
you become so stupid from all of 
the cheating that you cant ver
bally express your opinions any. * 
more? (In fact you probably  
cant even read this opinion.) 
Why cant you round up your 
herd of brothers and express 
yourselves in an intelligeable 
manner that most of us will 
understand? Is it because you 
have no intelligence or no opin
ions? From what I see, I suspect 
neither. But you are wonderful 
at showing all CMU students your v 
stupidity, arrogance, and destruc
tiveness.
You may have it easy now. 
Football, AMS, and your brothers 
will carry you through, but I cant 
wait to see where you wind up 
when you leave here. Youre 
going to be so incapable of think
ing intelligently or function
ing with other people that I sus
pect youll be collecting garbage 
or in jail within five years. You \ 
know when people start paying 
you money, instead of you paying 
them money, they arent going to 
put up with you and all your BS.
You may think youre macho, 
but look around guys-no one else 
does. Wise up Mary Ann, they 
arent cute little football players 
anymore.
Name withheld by request
April 1st is almost here. 
So is the NATRAT. Now is 
the time for all bad men 
and women with a nasty 
itch to satirize, lambast, or 
cook the various gooses of 
the University community. 
Everyone and every event is 
fair game. Get your legible 
scrawlings to us before 
March 25!
HELP WANTED AD
On-Campus Summer Jobs
ATTENTION:
SOPHOMORES, JUNIORS, SENIORS, 
and GRADUATE STUDENTS
The Carnegie-Mellon Action Project (C-MAP) is 
seeking a staff of teaching and resident assistants to work 
in our pre-college summer program from June 21 through 
July 30, 1980.
Applicants for positions should have expertise in any 
two of the following subject areas:
Physics I. II. Ill 
Calculus I, II
Chemistry (Freshman and Sophomore levels)
ASE (Analysis, Synthesis & Evaluation)
(Previous tutoring experience is helpful but not 
necessary.)
Applications are available in the C-MAP Office, 410 
Margaret Morrison Building, from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 
or at the Skibo Information Desk.
APPLICATION DEADLINE DATE:
FRIDAY, APRIL 4, 1980
Visit the Art Carved Representative This Week 
 See our Wide Variety of New Styles. 
Men s Contemporary
Women's Fashion
... symbolizing your ability to achieve
March 19, 20, & 21  10 AM - 4 PM 
Baker Hall, Bookstore 
UtUI iRiksU rp* 
$1 5 Deposit Required
Supptr toi the 1980 
United States Olympic Team
I

---------------------------------------------------

March 18,1980-TARTAN-Page 5
S.G. elections contested
Continued from page 1
polls and told to vote for Houska instead 
of the other candidates.
Morewood was also the place where a 
person who was not a student voted in the 
election. John Alexander described the in
cident: He [the non-student] came in 
and got accosted by a poll-worker who 
said Have you voted? He said No, and 
the worker said, Well, come on over 
here and vote. The person was not asked 
to show an ID or otherwise identify him
self.
In a discussion of the problem of 
eligible voters, Ames stated that over 
in Skibo, where we had the commuter 
lists, a lot of commuters were not on them. 
We took their name and ID number, and 
checked to make sure they had a valid 
ID. . . every place I was at, we were check
ing IDs.
(Although it was not known at the 
time, Robert Zusman, a Hammerschalg 
resident, was able to vote in Skibo when he 
was on the list in Donner. Potentially, he 
could have voted twice.)
It was discovered during the meeting 
that Senate had violated their by-laws in 
the establishment of all polling sites. Sites 
must be designated at least 14 days prior to 
the elections; however, Senate designated 
Skibo, Morewood, Donner, and Science 
Hall only eight days before the election, 
and the GSIA site by only one day. Ames 
stated that the sites have traditionally been 
set up only a week before, and that the law 
was simply not followed in the past or 
current elections.
The discussion then turned to the sub
ject of what could be done about the al
leged violations. Theres really no way to 
control everybody involved in the elec
tion, said Inners. The poll^workers, the 
candidates, the people they have working 
for them. . . were going to have a barkground level of problems.
As far as I can tell, he continued, 
there was no real distortion of the elec
tion. . . it about evened out on all sides. . . 
I dont know if re-running the election will 
do any good.
Inners went on to explain that, because 
of the high turnout (almost 40% of the 
student body), the election system had 
simply been overloaded.
Any new election would be push
ing finals week, making the election 
worse. . . because only the special interest 
groups would turn out. . . theres no way 
it would be any better, it could just be 
worse.
Ames added, From a practical stand
point, a lot of people are going to say, 
We turned out so well for the first one, 
and they screwed it up.
Thats like saying, protested Alex
ander, that We blew this election but we 
got such a great turnout, lets keep it des
pite the fact that it didnt turn out the way 
it should have.
Thats not saying that at all, said 
Ames. Inners added it just means that a 
second election could never be as clean as 
the first, but Alexander expressed the view 
that such a belief showed a low confidence 
in the students and the candidates.
I think a lot of people might say, XJee, 
Senate caught themselves and theyre 
taking themselves seriously, and theyre 
going to watch themselves.
Thats not very realistic, John, said 
Inners.
Ames added, There were a lot of 
people who were really caught up in the 
election, they were caught up in the spirit, 
and I just think that if we turned around 
and said were replaying it, they would  
Be very angry and not show up,  
concluded Houska.
The following is the text of the letter received by Student Senate which formally 
contests the Student Government elections held last week.
To Whom it May Concern:
On behalf of the student body of Carnegie-Mellon University the undersigned con
test the student government elections of this past week. We feel (and have documented 
proof) that the polling procedures were biased and grossly inadequate. The elections 
were in gross violation of the Bylaws of the student government:
Section 1. a) The Student Senate shall choose by motion passed fourteen (14) days 
before the elections, the location of election polls and the times of operation. This 
invalidates the entire election because the GSIA polling table was established the night 
before the election and the Science Hall polling place was established one week before 
the election.
Section 7. d) There is to be no campaigning within a twenty (20) foot radius of the 
polls. There are many instances of complaints concerning electioneering at the poll and 
even while the actual ballots were being cast.
In addition, polls in Science Hall were left unmanned with ballots and boxes left ac
cessible for at least one hour during the election. The poll was also notopen for the 
hours that were scheduled.
There is at least one instance where someone voted who was not a student at this 
university. His ID was not checked.
There is another instance where a student from the hill voted in Skibo after telling 
the poll worker that his name was not on the list. He then considered voting again on 
the hill, but decided that it would not be ethical.
The Skibo polling place, where commuters cast their votes, did not insure that 
commuters had not voted elsewhere. The list was incomplete, therefore, any student 
could say that their name did not appear on the list and be allowed to vote (see above 
paragraph). Although ID cards were checked you could not determine whether or not 
a student was a commuter.
Roberts Rules of Order states: If there is evidence that any unidentifiable ballots 
were cast by persons not entitled to vote, and if there is any possibility that such 
ballots might affect the result, the entire ballot vote is null and void and a new ballot 
vote must be taken (pg. 351 Roberts Rules of Order, Newly Revised).
It is apparent that in an election where approximately twenty votes separate the 
winning candidate from the second place candidate, there is a definite possibility that 
the results could have been affected by improper procedures.
Roberts Rules states in addition that:
The principle is that a choice has no mandate from the voting body unless approval 
is expressed by more than half of those entitled to vote and registering any evidence of 
having some opinion.
With this in mind, none of the candidates represent one-half of the voting body.
As a result of all of the above violations we contest this past weeks Student 
Government elections and we demand a new election.
Susan Borg
2B1 Morewood Gardens
James Balsom
118 MMA
UMOC has been extended 
You can still enter
Ugliest Man on Campus Con
Just make up yourself or 
a friend and send the picture to 
A Phi O Box 100 
ictures received by April 1 will appear in the April 
edition of the Tartan (Please send two copies)
Deadline April 7 
Prizes are Ugly Face Mugs
Mugs will be on display at Skibo Information
between March 10-20
Voting done with money. 
Proceeds go to charity.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6-TARTAN-March 18,1980
Summary of Food Service evaluation released
Below is the summary of the Food Service evaluation which was preformed by 
Kathryn E. Smith, Corporate Food Services Director for the Reynolds Metals 
Company of Richmond, Virginia. The sections not enclosed in quotes are Mr. Mayers 
own comments. t -
Mr. Oscar Mayer 
Carnegie-Mellon University 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Dear Mr. Mayer:
Thank you for the coutesies extended to me during the time I observed the foodservice department at your university....
To place emphasis on quality, service,price and sanitation,! discussed several areas 
with John including:
Menus for all operations
Cycles should be completely written by one trained, experienced person having 
knowledge of the popularity index; the food cost per item (should be) established with 
a 10% variable built in to the cost; selling prices (should be) established to meet the 
requirements of controllable and non-controllable costs; portion sizes established bas
ed on the food cost and selling price and checked by management to insure fair treat
ment to all; a variety of finished products incorporated especially relative to less red 
meats and fried entrees, more baked fish and chicken help to increase nutrition and 
lessen the complaint on greasy foods and lighter-in-calories vegetables, salads and des
serts.
The menus cycle proposals were reported in an article in the March 4 edition of 
the TARTAN. 
Based on food purchases, inventory time and recipes, computerization would be 
of benefit if the initial cost of the program could be off-set,by other than the foodservice department or if the administration would give the program the three years re
quired for the return on the investment.
1 am enthusiastic about the computer system proposal. However, without a capital 
reserve built from operating income, Food Service cannot make the investment. 
Production
Because the Vali-Dine system permits eating at any location, the amount of 
product is extremely difficult to predict but the Kiltie Cafe production, which is 
the main stream for full service, should be more predictable through analysis. It is 
possible that the students plan to accept Yesterdays Best the second day know
ing the selling price will be reduced, yet in actuality all costs remain the same. The 
Vali-Dine 15% reduction on top of the 10% price reduction is too much-to absorb. 
Production should be reviewed based on history, weather and class schedules, and 
1) reduced to provide less unsold food; or 2) incorporate unsold food into a different
WANTED
Students interested in government and public 
affairs. Students who would like a voice in 
determining publip policy decisions. Interviews 
will be held to discuss graduate studies at the
SCHOOL OF URBAN AND PUBLIC AFFAIRS, 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
on * Tuesday, April 8, 1980 
from 9:CO a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
in the Office of Placement Services.
presentation at the original selling price or 3) use the product as is the next day at the 
original selling price, or 4) hold under satisfactory freezer conditions and use when 
the product appears again on the menu cycle and take into consideration the amount 
on hand when determining production figures.
I agree that costs do not go away with a Yesterdays Best entree. I prefer to em
phasize production control and to continue our current practices, rather than adopt 
any of her last three suggestions.
Over-production can encourage inaccurate portioning, pilferage and waste. The 
food service department cannot afford any of these. The Vali-Dine discount percen
tage should be eliminated or the discount reduced to half or less.
The Vali-Dine discount will be lower in 1980-81 and we will work hard to restrain 
our a la carte prices as well. In response, we expect most account holders to keep rela
tively low Vali-Dine balances and to add to them periodically during each semester.
Merchandising and Sanitation
Merchandising of all products can be improved by presentation, attention to de
tails by the service staff, and by providing combinations of products that are general
ly accepted by the clientele. Merchandising emphasis can be placed on theme 
days...
We will be working on the theme suggested in the remainder of this paragraph, 
and on others for the next two months.
...John has recommended to you that his department take on the cleaning re
sponsibility and be relieved.of the housekeeping department budget charge. It ap
pears the logical solution to a very unsatisfactory situation.
We are not yet certain that we can provide this service within our price structure.
All of the operations except (Morewood Gardens) require emphasis and com
pletion of a refurbishing, cleaning and painting campaign. The Deli (Annex) should be 
enlarged due to the business it is generating and an additional Deli (Annex) elsewhere 
on campus would be beneficial to the business and the students.
We are considering a Deli-Annex equivalent for one of the vacant activities spac
es in the new Margaret Morrison Apartments. We have plans for refurbishing the 
dining areas in the Kiltie Cafe, Salads Plus, and the Tartan Grill, during the summer of 
1981. Again, Food Service cannot make these investments without building its cap
ital reserve.
The (Deli) could be more acceptable to the students if a continental type break
fast were provided with the home-made pastries, cold cereals, and fruits. If the morn
ing business increases where a cook could be supported, it would be advantageous 
to extend the morning menu slightly to provide a hot cereal and a maximum of 
two types of egg selections which can be varied day to day. Increasing the selec
tions will slow the service and require additional staff. Opening for breakfast will 
assist in meeting the nutritional needs of the students and should assist in improving 
student relations. In reviewing the operations, the (Deli) was the most modern, even 
on a make-shift basis; it was clean and staff morale during lunch service was high. The 
emphasis on service to the customer was apparent. Based on increased costs, insect 
control, plumbing costs and protection for the general health and safety of the dormi
tory student, the university should be concerned with the students cooking foods in 
their rooms.
Morewood will return to full meal service for the 1980-81 academic year. I strongly 
agree with Ms. Smiths comments concerning cooking in dormitory rooms, primarily 
because the practice threatens the fire safety of our dorms. We will continue trying to 
enforce the Universitys prohibition against cooking in dormitory rooms, but clearly, 
student cooperation is essential.
Very Truly yours,
Kathryn E. Smith, R.D. 
Corporate Food Services Director
Currents
Design Lecture Series
Sponsored by the Department of Design Carnegie Mellon University
April 2 Alfonse Chapanis
Professor. Department of Psychology 
The Johns Hopkins University 
Designing for Human Use
PH 100
Wed. 8 pm
rnrnrnsimmmmmmmmmmmmmomofiiimmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmCMU TRAVEL OFFICE .,.,.
OOQOOOtOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQQOQQOOOOQOOOOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQQQOOOQQOOOQOOQQOOOOOOQOOOOQOOOOOOOQOOOOQQQQOOOOQOOOOOOQ

---------------------------------------------------

This is it! The first bite of Spring Carnival
From a group that first chose diseases as its favorite theme, Spring Carnival Commit
tee has come a long way. The committee has given New York a character it never had 
before. Did you ever see a giant amoeba running up Madison Avenue? Well youre 
gonna see one on the IM Field. And the Statue of liberty will be welcoming everyone 
on the cut. Want an apple? Come and take the first bite and were sure you 11 want to 
take the last bite, too. Carnival 80 - April 17,18, and 19. This committee has made it 
the greatest ... get it, got it, good. _David Mongeau
What do tweezli-whop, people pass, giant times square ball, amoeba race, and apples 
have in common? You guessed itSpring Carnival 1980. Will you or someone you 
know be the first to take the big bite? Spring Carnival events will start on Thursday 
with RUSH HOUR RELAY RACES. Teams will compete on an obstacle course down 
Midway, filled with crazy stunts to decide who will take the first bite, of the Big 
Apple, of course. The winning team will participate in the ribbon cutting ceremonies. 
Friday events are designed to involve as many people as possible. They are all New 
Games and need a MOB of people just like youd find in New York. Referees are 
needed to learn and facilitate the New Games. Workshops will be held before Carnival. 
Teams for the relay races may sign up at the information desk in Skibo after Spring 
Break. Anyone interested in joining events or if anyone has any questions, call me at
621-3848  -LisaPodwoski
Im Beth Cowen, Im not too artistic, I am slightly crafty  and Ive never been to New 
York City or Greenwich Village. But, I am in charge of the Arts and Crafts Fair for 
Spring Carnival. And because the theme is New York City, the Arts and Crafts Fair 
gets to become Greenwich Village. So I need your help. Unlike some of the other 
Chairmen, I have no faithful committee to depend onso I am offering you (yes, 
YOU) the chance to become a member of my committee. I wont ask much from you 
its just that a committee meeting of one can be lonely. If you are talented in the areas 
of silk screening, sculpture, weaving, painting, photography, macrame, leather crafts, 
or any other such areas, maybe you would like to exhibit and sell your things at the 
Arts and Crafts Fair. Or if you like to show off your talents, we have openings for 
people to give demonstrations. So if you want to join my .committee, exhibit at the 
Fair or give a demonstration, call me at 578-5973, or leave your name and number at 
the Skibo Information desk. I will call youI promise. Have I ever lied to you beBeth Cowen
As I was using my facilities the other day in my very own apartment, I said to myself 
Roseanne Roseannadanna, Spring Carnival is coming up real soon, And you know, 
its gonna give one little teeny-weeny piece of advice: when you go down Midway to 
ride the rides, take a can of Lysol with you, cause you never know what youre gonna 
find on those seats. You know the little babies that run around with those loose Pam
persthe ones that are all baggy and squishy? Well, when their mothers put em up on 
the rides, you never know what theyre gonna leave behind. And like Ive said before: 
its always somethin . . . -Elaine Smith
I, the effervescently humble. Jane Giamporcaro, as entertainment chairman, 
promise to fulfill my responsibilities to the 
best of my ability. If for some reason I will 
not be able to do so, my ultimate respon
sibilities will be handed down to the 
eminently propitious Mark Valenta, the 
ultimately pulchritudinous Chris Rebmann, 
and the virtuosly incumbent FranDobscha, 
my trusty and faithful committee. For 
Spring Carnival, we have contracted the 
best in New York cabaret entertainment 
and the best Greenwich Village street acts, 
this side of the Rockies. For cabaret, we 
have jazz singers, a comedy/punk rock 
team, and Edmonds & Curly as ^emcees, 
to name a few. For Greenwich Village, 
we have frisbee-playing roller skaters, 
juggling unicyclists, sidewalk chalk artists, 
Bob Dylan (no kiddingwe mean it), and 
to name a few more, another strangely ver
nacular, dynamic, talented and (no, theyre 
not related to me OR my committee) alto
gether wholesome, all-American good kids. 
So come and enjoy watching us enjoying 
ourselves while we enjoy you enjoying
yourselves! (This announcement has been 
paid for by the David Mongeau for World 
Chancellor Committee).
-Jane Giamporcaro
Im the one! Yes, Im the one that is in charge of sending those booms into the air. 
Im in charge of the pretty colors and large explosions. 01 Boom-Boom himself will be 
there to shoot them up. Show up at 10 PM Friday night and lets blow up New York 
together! By the way, this year we thought we should have an opening ceremony. Im 
the one! Im in charge of the music, booms, races, explosions, and ribbon cuttings. It 
would be kind of nice if people showed up to see it, 5 PM Thursday at the Entranceway.
Steve Doctor
People always ask what the hell is so significant about Entranceway. Well, the answer 
is nothing. But what is interesting is: can you imagine an eight foot diameter Red Deli
cious apple? I cant, but theres going to be one landing on the Midway when Carnival 
opens. So be there and watch the apple and fill your greatest imagination with some 
Carnival Knowledge. Anyone interested in building this King-Kong size apple can 
drop by any Wednesday at 5:30 at the Skibo desk or show up at the Spring Carnival 
Committee Meeting. You can also leave your name and number in the Spring Car
nival Mail Box.
Chuck Frank
The Power Committee will supply all power to the booths on midway. Once again, 
we will have power by the 20th of April, for sure. Until then, we will continue with 
Con Edisons practice of Blacking Out in honor of the approaching summer.
Marc Masquelier
Not pictured: Rusty Gray (rides), Lex Arlett (SDC rep), Andy Epstein (publicity).
Spring Carnival will soon be here, only 31 days away. So, start saving your pennies so 
that you can help all the booths make MONEY and make Spring Carnival a success!!!
Stephanie Smith
Anyone who wants to help, just leave us, any of us, a note at the Information Desk. 
You can call 421-9945, too, and ask for David. Were waiting.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8-TARTAN-March 18,1980
ARE GOING TO WASHINGTON THIS SUMMER
Journalists, analysts, economists, pollsters, candidates, hypesters and special interest groups will also converge on Washington in the election summer of 1980.But perhaps the greatest opportunities are reserved for the senous students who can study the political process upclose at The Amencan University, in: government, political science, business & government relations, communications, journalism and public relations.A few hands-on internships and work study programs are still available. Summer study also offers ideal opportunities to earn credits for electives and to further your degree program in Will yOU be there? 
the nation s capital. i* Office of Summer Sessions, , Duimg election summer , j ^ Universityof 1980, the Washington expen^ Washington, D.C. 20016ence at A U will provide / \the inquiring student with a lot's more than "academics'' J Talk with your academic/ counselor and call write now for information about the Summer of '80 in D C There will^ never be another/^ opportunity like I this until 1984.
202-686-2697 
TheAmericanorX si University
B U L Please send course \ The Amencan University
! schedule. ? Please send \ - 15 dn,fc^J \ opportunity amrma
'specific information about:_________i tive action university
Name_
///
\ PhoneI --------
Address
The Three Rivers Arts Festival comes of age
by Molly Silver
At 21 years old, the Three Rivers Arts 
Festival has come of age, and the city of 
Pittsburgh can be proud to wish a happy 
birthday to an event which had developed 
into the most eagerly -awaited cultural 
extravaganza in the City. For ten days 
each June, Gateway Center, Market Square 
and Point State Park house a colorful 
showplace for the visual and performing 
arts. This years festival will be held June 
6-15.
In May, 1960, the director of the Car
negie Institute and the Women's Commit
tee saw the need to make the Museum 
accessible to non-Museum goers by moving 
the art outside of the Museum. It was 
decided that the downtown area was where 
the art was needed and would reach more 
people. Engineered by the Womens Com
mittee and the American Wind Symphony, 
the Festival set-up shop downtown where 
the three historic rivers meet to form the 
Golden Triangle.
As the City recovered from its first 
tornado in 27 years, the Museum recovered 
from the first festival, establishing a Three 
Rivers Arts Festival Committee, hiring an 
executive director, and evaluating new 
ideas to form the basic structure for an 
event created by and for its own com
munity.
Twenty^one years later, the Festival 
has become a greatly expanded city insti
tution, which now includes drama, ballet, 
symphony, jazz, poetry, marionettes, visual 
art and childrens events.
Paula Atlas, executive assistant of the 
Arts Festival, remarked; In the cultural 
life of the City, the Festival has found a 
permanent place. What has been so excit
ing for me, notes Ms. Atlas, a Festival 
pioneer who has been with the Festival 
since 1963, is watching more and more 
people attend and become involved.
The Festival changes all the time, growing 
with new developments in the visual and 
performing arts.
This year over 800 artists will be exhibit
ing their work as opposed to the 200 men 
and women in 1960. Thanks to generous 
grants, over 150 corporations and found
ations and individual contributions, this 
years proposed budget is close to 2,000,000 
dollars. The enormous growth of the 
festival lias required it to expand its area 
to Point State Park and Market Square, to 
accomodate the 250,000 local and out of 
town visitors who attend yearly.
Last year more than 1,000 artists enter
ed the prestigious Juried Visual Arts Ex
hibit. According to Nora Mann, Director 
of Public Relations for the festival, due to 
several changes even more entries are ex
pected this year.
The most significant change will be the 
return to the concept of using out-of-town 
jurors, reported John Jay, Festival Direct
or. Jay feels that using out-of-town jurors 
guarantees a more objective show. This 
years prestigious jurors are Monica Cipnic, 
associate editor of Popular Photography 
Magazine and Popular Photography Annual; 
Francoise Grossen, New York fiber artist 
and teacher; and Tom Hinson, associate
curator of modern art for the Cleveland 
Museum of Art.
This year there will be two Artist Mar
ket shows, one June 6-10 and another June 
11-15, to give artists an opportunity to set 
up booths and personally sell their wares as 
well as interact with non artists.
The paintings are hung on wire mesh 
panels with drop flaps in pavillions with 
colorful canva roofs. Sculpture is staged 
out doors and this year there will be a pho
tography show in the Point State Park. St
ages and chairs are set up for the various 
other out door performances. Enviromental art, a craft show and videography, a new 
art form, are other events included. Child
ren can look forward to painting, building, 
dressing up, making up and many other 
events under spirited direction.
Traditionally, performing artists are in
vited to the festival, but because the Fest
ival feels it is important to showcase those 
artists just starting out, notes John Jay, the 
Festival invites local performers to audition 
on March 29 in Oakland for one of the 18 
spots in the Festival Fringe. Anyone inter
ested in arranging an audition should call 
687-7014 by March 25.
The original goal of the Three Rivers 
Arts Festival was to get art to a new aud
ience, and that is what it has done with 
quality, thanks to talented and energetic * 
organizers and community participation 
and support. In 1960, a basic framework 
was established which was workable, yet 
flexible in order to be open to new thought 
and changes. 21 years later, the Festival has 
made a well deserved rite of passage. With a 
great deal of pride and thanks, this June 
every Pittsburgher can raise their glass to 
toast the event which puts life and zest ] 
into the city for ten very special days. 
Happy Birthday Arts Festival. And many 
happy returns! ' %

---------------------------------------------------

March 18,1980TARTANPage 9
No more rough drafts: Put down your baseball bat
... at the age of 11, politics and war were far less impor
tant than comic books, baseball or beating up your little 
brother.
by Renee Rosenfeld
You were born in New Jersey, sometime in 1961. About 10 years later, you began 
to hear words like protest and demonstration. The words didnt mean much at the 
time, but you were old enough to sense some kind of conflict when they were used. 
By the time Kent State rolled around in May of 1970, undoubtedly you could, link 
that screaming girl on the front page of every newspaper to protest or demonstration. 
Still youre in New Jersey and at the age of 11, politics and war were far less important 
than comic books, baseball, or beating up your little brother.
Vietnam brought rise to the use of protest and demonstrations. Violence, National 
Guardsmen, and tear gas became synonymous with this method of voicing public opin
ion. Since the government got the message and ended the war, political protests or 
demonstrations have become few and far between. Every once and a while some move
ment might surface that draws enough people to gain the movement some recognition. 
As Vietnam drifts further back into history, the nature of political demonstrations has 
calmed down. Demonstrations, for the most part, have moved off of college campuses. 
Organizations have carefully engineered their events into rallies, generally non-violent 
in nature.
to have gained considerably more momentum since its first burial, last summer this 
weeks rally should draw much better attendance than last Aprils.
CMU has witnessed one violent act of aggression against Draft opposition, when a 
fight broke out at last weeks CARD benefit. This type of violence from outside is 
likely to be the only aggression at the rally, if it exists at all. Those who attend the ral. . . you began to hear words like 
protest and demonstration.
ly can expect to be amongst others who share opposition to mandatory military con
scription. The events of the day should prove to be informative and interesting, despite 
the absence of Bonnie Raitt, Jackson Browne, or your favorite punk band.
So youve decided to journey to Washington to see exactly what a political rally is 
in 1980. In 10 years violent protests have become non-violent rallies, your brother 
grew up to be bigger than you are, and youve decided that being shipped off to fight 
a war might be a little more important than beating him up, even if you did grow up 
in New Jersey.
ATTENTION 
FINANCIAL AID 
STUDENTS!
Additional National Direct Student Loan 
Funds have been received by CAAU. To replace 
your guaranteed student loan or increase 
your NDSL see your Financial Aid Officer
immediately.
X2068 Warner Hall
In late April, last year, the Students for a Libertarian Society sponsored an antiDraft rally on the steps of the Capitol. The rally was attended by severaf hundred 
people and featured speeches representing both sides of the issue. The crowd was 
mild during the rally. A couple of hours after the end of the official rally, about 150 
students, lead by Ron Kovic, a well known opponent of Vietnam, gathered for a dis
cussion with Sen. Peter McClosky (Calif.). Mr. McClosky was responsible for the 
major draft legislation that was before the Senate. The discussion turned into a one
sided argument by Draft opponents who wouldnt allow McClosky to present his 
rationale for the introduction of the legislation.
Its one year later, the Draft issue has died and been reincarnated. This Saturday,' 
the first major rally of 1980 will be held in Washington to voice opposition to the 
Draft. Publicity for the rally has been heavy. Here, at CMU, the Draft issue has become
i a major topic of conversation. The Pittsburgh Committee Against Registration and the 
Draft CARD) has become an active force on campus. A reasonable number of CMU 
students plan to travel to Washington to attend the raUy. After months of Soviet 
aggression in Afghanistan, what can Draft opposers expect in Washington this week
end?
In the five months that have elapsed since the1 takeover of the US Embassy in Iran, 
the American public has been most unified since the end of WWII. This same unity 
surrounds the movement in opposition to the draft. The anti-Draft movement seems

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10-TARTAN-March 18,1980
College students affect Presidential primary vote
(CPS)  College students who earlier 
in the Presidential campaign have hinted 
theyre becoming less apathetic about poli
tics, turned out in huge numbers in the re
cent New Hampshire primary.
While 55 percent of the 12,000 eligible 
students voted, their choices suggest that 
the turnout reflects concern about foreign 
policy rather than anit-draft or anti-nuclear 
feelings that some candidates tried to ex
ploit.
Republican students in the four major 
college voting sectors in the state barely 
favored George Bush over Ronald Reagan 
and John Anderson .Bush recieved 31 per
cent of the college Republican vote, while 
Reagan captured 27 percent and Anderson 
26 percent.
The remainder of the Republican pack 
trailed far behind. Sen. Howard Baker was 
closest, with 12 percent of the campus 
vote.
On the Democratic side, the college vote 
defied most predictions that the issue of 
draft registration would turn campuses 
against President Jimmy Carter.
Both Sen. Edward Kennedy and Gov. 
Edmund Brown criss-crossed the states 
campuses emphasizing their opposition to 
President Carters proposal to begin draft 
registration for all 18-20-year-olds. Brown 
also stressed his long-time opposition to 
nuclear power in a state in which the.student anti-nuclear movement is one of the 
most vigorous in the country. -
Students didnt respond. Kennedy and 
Brown did better on campuses than they 
did in other areas in the state, but Presi
dent Carter still took 48 percent of the 
student vote.
Kennedy came in second among the stu
dent Democrats, with 35 percent. Brown 
attracted 16 percent of the vote, which was 
much better than the campus support he 
recieved in the Iowa caucuses in January.
The Iowa student turnout had been also 
surprisingly heavy. Student Republicans 
endorsed Bush, with Reagan and Anderson 
coming in second and third, respectively. 
Democrats gave Carter close to a 2-1 lead 
over Kennedy, Brown was expected to do 
better on campuses, but his last-minute re
quest that his supporters remain uncom
mitted made an exact measure of his popu
larity difficult.
In New Hampshire, Brown spent the last 
week of the campaign repeatedly referring 
to his anti-nuclear stance. New Hampshire, 
of course, is the site of the controversial 
Seabrook nuclear plant.
Similarly, Kennedy devoted much of 
the final two weeks of the race to campus 
visits, during which he called for a two-year 
moratorium on nuclear plant construction. 
He also repeadly reminded student audi
ences of his opposition to draft registration.
^lllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllltllllllllllllilllllllllllllllllllillillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII^
PASSOVER SEDERS AND MEALS
B'NAI B'RITH HILLEL-JEWISH j 
UNIVERSITY CENTER
Monday, March 31 
Tuesday, April 1
6:00 Services 
6:30 First Sedert
6:00 Services 
6:30 Second Seder
The cost of each Seder is $5.50 for students: 
$7.50 for faculty and non-students
RESERVATIONS FOR SEDER MEALS 
SHOULD BE MADE IMMEDIATELY BY CALLING
621-8875
Lunches will be served weekdays during Passover from 11:30 - 
1 p.m. $1.75 students; $2.50 others
Dinners will be served weekdays during Passover from 
5-6 p.m. $4.40 students; $5.50 others.
A complete package including 6 lunches, 5 dinners and 2 Seders 
is available for $38.00 to students not already on a Kosher Meal 
Contract at Hillel. Call 621-8875 for more information.
Check with Hillel about arrangements to switch for the 
week from CMU meal plan.
Increase Liberal Arts
Your Career Degree 
Potential A Business
Give Your Plus
ESSENTIALS OF BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION for women liberal arts graduates 
Summer residential certificate program. June 22 tliru August 2. 1980.
EBi. Program Director 
Chatham College 
Woodland Road 
Pittsburgh PA 15232 
412) 441 82(H) ext 21bG IATI 1M COLLEGE
The sentiments were almost always wellreceived by the campus crowds. That did 
not, however,translate into votes.
What Im concerned about, said Dart
mouth freshman Michael Behn, is that 
this country tries to balance its budget. I 
believe that we must stop spending so 
much money, or else inflation will go out 
of orbit.
At least on Dartmouths Hanover cam
pus, students randomly stopped for inter
views were very concerned about foreign 
policy questions besides the draft.
I really like Bush, said juniqr Susan 
Hemeren. Hes the one who seems to 
know what we should do about foreign 
policy.
Bush and Andersons Hanover visits 
elicited the most excitement among all the 
repeated candidate visits. While Bush won
at Dartmouth, which is generally con
sidered one of the nations most conserva
tive large campuses, Anderson did better 
(35 percent) there than in other college 
precincts. Reagan could only manage seven 
percent of the Dartmouth vote.
Among the campuses, Reagan was most 
popular at Plymouth State College, where 
he took 62 percent of the vote. He also 
won at New England College, with 46 per*nt.
President Carter did best at New 
England, too, taking 63 percent of the*stu
dent vote. He captured 53 percent of the 
Dartmouth vote. His 42 percent at the 
University of New Hampshire was good 
enough to win, but only barely against 
Kennedys 38 percent. It was Kennedys 
best campus performance in New Hamp
shire.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A coring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
IRON CITY
SCHTZBUDSCHMIDTS CHAMP ALE STROHS GENESEE ROLLING ROCK SCHLITZ MALT BALLANTINE ALE MILLER UGHT MICHELOB PABST 
MILLER COLT 45GENESEE CREAM ALE BUSCHSCHUTZ LIGHT
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS  MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
MILLERS. COLT 4S MOL SON ALE. LOWENBRAU DARK STROMS HEINEKEN IIGHIOne different i6o/6 ph featured etch tree*
SCHLITZ  PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT  STROM S * ROLLING ROCK
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVER
TIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
 SPECIALTY ITEMS 
FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  f IZZA SERVED TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE OF 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
------------- IMPORTS ---------------
621-7388 or 621-1185
. BASS ALE England DORT HANSA Germany SAM MIGUEL PtoMpmas SPATENBRAU Germany ST PAULI GIRL Germany PILSNER URQUELL Ciech GUtNtSS STOUT tretend DAS XX EQUIS Mexico WURZBURGER Germany HARP LAGER Ireland LOWENBRAU Germany O KEEFE ALE Canada DINKEL ACKER Germwiy TECATE Mexico ISENBECK W Germany IRVSTALL Italy MACKESON England
 KIRIN Japan PERONI Italy RIGNES Norway BECKS Germany HOFBRAU Germany ZYWIEC Poland KRAKUS Poland SUPERIOR Mexico f-ObitHS Ammaina HEINEKEN HoAand MOLSON ALE Canada PAULANER Germany GOSSER Auatna TANKARD London UNION W Germany PALE ALE London DINKEL Germany WARFTEINEL Germany
3901 FORBES AV (OAKLAND) PGH PA 15213

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN PHOTO CONTEST WINNERS
Honorably Mention (People)Ronald Gregurich
Honorable Mention (People)Jenny Ladd
Honorable Mention (Miscellaneous)Barb Raab
Honorable Mention (Miscellaneous)Andrew Spewock

---------------------------------------------------

PEOPLE
Michael Melnick
Andrew Spewock
ftiL
mm

---------------------------------------------------

NATURE
Andy Hahn
Tom Dudar

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

entertainment
Drama Departmentstages Miss Reardon
by Melody Mazzie
Ceil hasnt seen her sisters in seven 
monthsnot since the death of their moth
er. In fact, Ceil has been purposely avoid
ing them because she cant deal with the 
reality that Anna is losing her mind, and 
Catherine drinks a little.
Paul Zindel has written a play that deals 
with thJ painful revelations that result 
from the anion of these three sisters. 
And Miss Reardon Drinks A Little is a 
blend of comedy and heart-rending drama. 
The CMU Drama Department has done a 
remarkable job with their production 
which opened March 13.
Jane Campbell is Anna, a teacher who 
has created a scandal because of her rela
tionship with one of her students. Unable 
to deal with the shame, Anna has become a 
basket case, imagining that she has suffered 
from rabies, and has developed a neurotic 
fear of anything associated with dead anim
alsfur, leather, or meat. Tama Bodenrader is Catherine, who is also a teacher and 
who has had to care for Anna. A lonely 
alcoholic, Catherine hides her true feelings 
behind a shield of bitter, abusive language
When Ceil, (Caroline Carrigan) finally 
visits her sisters, a lot of sentiment is ex
changed and a lot of accusations are 
thrown about. Ceil is the school supervisor 
and the only one of the sisters who is mar
ried. Compared to the other two, Ceil 
seems to be successful and relatively stable 
at least her initial impression leads the aud
ience to believe so.
As the play progresses, more and more 
is revealed about the sisters deceased 
mother and the marks that she left on each 
of their lives. The mothers slow and agonizing death left its scar deeply engraveu in
Annas mind. Catherine was affected also, 
though she has dealt with it differently, 
becoming hardened. Ceil, however, did not 
see her mother tiie and has to live with the 
guilt of her neglect. At the same time. 
Anna and Catherine harbor a resentment 
toward her for her. alienation from them.
And Miss Reardon Drinks A Little is an 
emotionally complex play that deals with 
the unfulfilled lives of three distraught 
women. Zindel, however, has incorporated 
comedy into the work that helps ease the 
tension of the situation. Catherine, for
example, hides chopped meat in a Fanny 
Farmer box of candy so that she can 
obtain a little protein in spite of Annas 
demand that they be vegetarians.
The characters of Fleur and Bill Stein, 
played by Roberta Fox and Michael Gold
berg, also serve as comic relief figures. 
The Steins are a sickeningly shallow couple 
who spend their time probing into the bus
iness of other people and arguing with each 
other over petty complaints. Both Fox 
and Goldberg should be commended for 
their effective performances.
And Miss Reardon Drinks A Little has 
a great deal to say about judgments people 
make about other people without tend
ing to the planks in their own eyes. It 
says something, too, about the need for 
love and the effects that can result from being love-starved in a cold, unsympathetic
society.
The play, directed by James Baffico 
will run through March 22 and starts at 
8:20 PM. The Drama Departments next 
mainstage production will be Henrik 
Ibsens Lady From the Sea, to be presented 
April 17-26.
If you liked CMUs production of And 
Miss Reardon Drinks A Little, you have a 
chance to see another play by the great 
modern American dramatist Paul Zindel.
Paul Zindels Pulitzer Prize drama, The 
Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-theMoon Marigolds will be presented March
20 through 23 at the Pittsburgh Playhouse 
for five performances. The play deals with 
a mother whose bitterness at the world is 
shattered when her daughters science pro
ject at school wins an award and brings 
some hope into their dreary household.
The play is being put on by the Point 
Park College Theatre Company and is 
directed by senior directing student Kim 
Evans. The cast includes Melanie Verliin, 
DeAnn Trimarchi, Mary Beth Haggarty, 
Lyn Fero, and Bethene Hub bell.
The all-female cast will be presenting 
the play in the Theatre Downstairs of the 
Playhouse. Tickets range from $2.00 to 
$4.00 and can be reserved by calling the 
Playhouse Box Office at 6214445. There 
are special rates for senior citizens, stu
dents and groups.
Folk Man meets the Rave-Ups at Coffeehouse
by Paul Smith
Last Saturday, March 8, the A.B. Coffee 
House featured Andy Judkis and The RaveUps. It was an evening of local talent; 
Judkis and all of the Rave-Ups are students 
or graduates of CMU.
Andy Judkis opened the show with a 
one hour set of mostly mellow music. He 
is a senior Electrical Engineering major 
here, and a writer of short stories. Hes 
also a very gifted acoustic blues guitarist. 
The best moments of his very pleasing set 
were his blues and ragtime instrumentals. 
His finger picking style is intricate and 
complex, but very sensitive. The feeling 
of his music comes across well to the 
listener; its never lost in the technical pre
cision. Andy vocalized in more than half 
of his numbers. His vocal style, while not 
outstanding, is pleasant, and fits the mel
low feel of his folkier material. He got his 
best audience response with his rendition 
of Up Against the Wall, Redneck Moth
ers, the country rock standard.
The Rave-Ups, while beset with tech
nical problems, delivered a confident, 
crowd pleasing performance. Jimmer 
Podrasky, who handles a lot of the vocals.
seemed especially outgoing and happy with 
the audience, more so than in the past.
Their show got off to a running start 
with I Live in the City, which set the 
sarcastic tone of most of the songs. The 
energy was broken almost immediately by 
a long tuning break only two songs into the 
set, but the band got the audience back 
into things quickly. The highlight of the 
show was a very, very catchy new song 
called Bo Derek (who are yout any
way?). The song turned into a medley of 
the three greatest garage-band songs of 
all time; Louie Louie, Wild Thing, 
and Get offa my Cloud.
They also surprised the audience near 
the end of the show with a rocked out 
version of Bobby Angel, the ComboTactic song. The show was, in general, 
far from tight, but the band was at a wired 
energy level, and, as far as the audience was 
concerned, that made up for any lack of 
polish. In short, they kicked ass, regard
less.
While both acts got very positive reac
tions, it seemed rather poor judgement on 
the part of the management to have tham 
put on the same bill.
PBT to interpret Etudes
Pittsburgh dance audiences and music 
lovers will experience an added artistic 
dimension when the Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre premieres Patrick Frantzs Por
traits for the Present Times to Chopins 
piano Etudes on March 28, 29, 30 at 
Heinz Hall.
Playing the Etudes will be Australian 
pianist, Alan Kogosowski, an extremely 
gifted and widely-traveled artist with a 
distinguished musical backround.
Mr. Kogosowski has made several 
recordings and performs frequently in 
Australia and New Zealand as recitalist 
and as soloist with orchestras. He has 
appeared with such conductors as the late 
Arthur Fiedler, John Hopkins, Okko 
Kramer, and Vanco Cavdarski, In 1976 
he toured with the New Zealand Sym
phony Orchestra under the late Andre 
Kostelanetz. A year later he made his 
recital debut in London.
This will be Mr. Kogosowskis third 
appearance in the United States after 
last summers performance in New York 
City and Savannah, Georgia.
A native of Melbourne, Australia, Mr. 
Kogosowski studied piano at the Mel
bourne Conservatorium before being 
awarded a Churchill Fellowship to study 
for two years in Paris and London.
He has won several prizes including a 
trip around the world when he was 13, 
during which he appeared on The Ed 
Sullivan Show in New York and on tele
vision in England. In 1975 he won the 
coveted Music Rostrum Prize at the 
Sydney Opera House.
Critical acclaim follows him wherever he 
performs. In London his playing was called 
brilliant, superbly powerful. The New 
York Times noted his confidence, vitality, 
and special panache. One critic in 
Australia wrote, For piano lovers, to see 
and hear this man is a must.
Mr. Kogosowski arrives in Pittsburgh 
later this month from Australia to begin 
rehearsal with the PBT for what will be a 
distinct combination and a unique experi
ence for both dance and music audiences
In addition to Portraits for the Present 
Times, the PBT will perform Celebration 
another premiere by Patrick Frantz tc 
music by Carl Orff and Icarus, a contem 
porary interpretation of the Greek myth 
by celebrated Dutch choreographer, Luca* 
Hoving.
The Rave-Ups: Bassist George Carter, drummer Richard Slevin, guitarists Jimmer Podrasky and 
Michael Kenelcke
N.Y.C. premieresCMU pieces
The American Bass Quintet, with the 
assistance of the New York Woodwind 
Quintet, will present a concert on March 
18 at Carnegie Recital Hall in New York, 
featuring three works by Carnegie Mellon 
University Professor of Composition 
Leonardo Balada, including one new com
position.
The works to be performed include 
Mosaico, Geometrias, conducted by 
Balada, and Sonata for 10 Winds, 
composed for the occasion. Mosaico 
was commissioned by the Aspen Festi
val and premiered by the American Brass 
Quintet in 1970, which later recorded it. 
Geometrias was premiered in 1967 at 
the Barcelona International Music Festi
val and has had regular performances in 
the LTnited States as well as Europe. It 
was recorded in 1969. The new com
position, Sonata for 10 Winds, is a 
stark one movement work in which tex
tural as well as soloistic statements are 
made, combining traditional sounds with 
more contemporary ones.
Balada has an international reputation 
and his music is regularly performed by 
distinguished soloists and orchestras, such 
as the philharmonics of Los Angeles, 
Israel, and New Orleans, and the sympho
nies of Pittsburgh, Detroit, Jerusalem 
and Madrid. Reviewing one of his many 
recordings, Stereo Review, called him 
clearly a major and developing talent. 
One of his latest recordings, Homage to 
Sarasate, has just been released by the 
Louisville Orchestra. Sonata for 10 
Winds is one of several Balada compo
sitions to be premiered in 1980, including 
Torquemada, a cantata based on the 
Spanish Inquisition, now in the making.
Balada was born in Barcelona, Spain 
and graduated from the Julliard School 
of Music. He has been at CMU since 1970

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-TARTAN-March 18,1980
One unique bandBb Le Strange
The new album, 
on Epic Records and Tapes.
Buy it once Enjoy it a lifetime Recorded music is your best entertainment value 
Produced by Mike Flicker. Connie and Howie Management & Direction by Ken Kmnear, Albatross Management Inc
'Epic is a trademark of CBS Inc  1980 CBS Inc
American Economics 
Association
Summer Minority Program 
at Yale
Junt? 16AuQuir 8. 1980
Courses
Microeconomics 
Macro*- onomirs 
Economic Anaty.is 
Introduction t<> f conotm'trics
fill anuses l,uuihtby I Onedi wines Ii/hiifii! I ua'dty
lwtfill. if:Him. ff 
aw/ Sti/>'-ruf
For More Information Contact
AFA
Of!ic.Admissions t 
YakUinvei;.ity 
1 bOr.A Y;iU; Statini 
Now Mnvfii. Conn
ity IlOijrain
tient 06b>0
Parliament-Funkadelic, kings of funk music, come to Stanley
nothing short of platinum or gold (One 
Nation, Funkentelechy vs. Placebo 
Syndrome, Motor Booty Affair), ParlimentFunkadelic attracts capacity crowds when
ever their tours take them (including 
Europe). If this years concert turns out 
to be anything like/the one here at the 
Civic Arena in April 1979 (and I suspect it 
will be), loyal fans and funkateers are in 
for a treat. With the combination of the 
Stanleys superb acoustics and a group of 
energetic and talented musicians, the 
results should be fantasticwell worth the 
ticket price!
The show will unquestionably be a 
sellout, so those who wish to see the 
living legends of funk in concert are urged 
to purchase their tickets from the Stanley 
Box Office of National Record Mart 
outlets as soon as possible.
ZZ Top this?
by Charly Rhoades
Electric country blues and boogie comes 
to Pittsburgh March 26 as ZZ Top returns 
to the Civic Arena to present a concert 
destined to draw record crowds.
A music industry anomaly, ZZ Top has 
enjoyed a relatively successful career, 
supported by a legion of staunch fans, 
despite the limited airplay they receive 
from commercial radio stations. Their 
albums consistently sell large amounts, and 
their concerts are usually sellouts within a 
few days, as was the case last time they ap
peared at the Arena. They are presently 
touring in support of an awaited new al
bum, Deguello, which has been released 
following a self-imposed sheltered exist
ence.
The opening act for ZZ Top will be the 
Rockets. The DiCe sear-Engle r production 
starts at 7:30 PM. Tickets are on sale now.
by L. Vernon Valentine
Parliame nt-F unkadelic, undoubtedly
one of todays premiere funk bands, will 
rock the walls of the Stanley Theater on 
Friday, April 4th. Produced by mastermind 
George Clinton, protege of James Brown, 
the combined groups have dominated their 
sector of the music market for over a 
decade.
Funk, a unique fusion of rock and soul, 
is Parliament-Funkadelics speciality. Al
though many groups have attempted (and 
still attempt) to uncover the special ele
ments that have kept this musical organ
ization at the top since its origin in 1968, 
the group still stands alone as innovators 
and pacesetters in funk music. The Parlia 
Funkadelicment Thang, comprised of 
Parliament, Funkadelic, Partlett, The
Horns (as well as several featured solo 
artists), is essentially one large entourage 
of gifted composers, writers and musicians. 
However, those who follow the success 
trek of this music industry giant under
stand that the groups are by no means the 
same thing.
Parliament, leaning toward soul and 
jazz, is distinguished from Funkadelic 
primarily by its horn section, The Horny 
Horns. Led by veteran saxophonist, Maceo 
Parker and trombonist Fred Wesley, 
formerly of the James Brown Band, the 
brass section of Parliament contributes a 
crisp, unique and definately funky edge to 
the music.
Funkadelic, devoid of any horns, leans 
heavily toward rock. Featuring the talents 
of lead guitarists Mike Hampton, Eddie
Brides of Funkenstein, and The Horny Hazel and Gary Shider, the group is knownThe great Pretenders
by Ted Smits
It certainly seems like todays music 
field is overpopulated with new rock and 
roll bands all sporting the word The in 
their titles. We have the Cars, Shirts, Shoes, 
Rockets, Records, Ruts, Cramps, Cure, 
As, Beat, Persuasions, Sinceros and now 
The Pretenders. This four person new 
wave rock and roll band from England is 
led by Chrissie Hyndes, a 28 year old 
vocalist from Akron, Ohio. With the release 
of their first album on Sire Records the 
group is receiving ever increasing critical
and commercial acclaim. On Wednesday, 
March 19th, Danny Kresky Enterprises 
will present the Pretenders at the Decade 
club in Oakland.
Chrissie Hyndes writes and performs 
groups material'with a hint of self-parody, 
but the music's raw urgency proves that 
the band is there to rock. Usually dressed 
in a black leather jacket, Hyndes is ob
viously from the Patti Smith school of 
female rockers. Their songs, especially 
some cuts on the first album, are good, 
no nonsense melodies with driving 
rhythms that mesh perfectly with Hyndess 
breathless, blurting lyrics. Nick Lowe 
Produced one song entitled, Stop Your 
Sobbing, a definitive version of the Kinks 
very early hit, that is one of the most 
memorable covers in the last few years. 
The Pretenders are said to have a fine live 
show; if you can get into the Decade, I 
suggest you check out the show.
for such alltime greats as Maggot Brain, 
Cosmic Slop and One Nation Under a 
Groove. Although the groups often have 
common musicians, the types of funk 
produced are distinct even to the minimal
ly educated listener.
The Brides of Funkenstein, a more 
recent outgrowth of Clintons Thang, 
are* three talented young female vocalists 
who are backed up by the musicians of 
Parliament-Funkadelic. Their success has 
grown rapidly with such hits.as Disco to 
Go and Amorous; these ladie.s always 
promise an exciting performance.
With albums that usually settle for
At the Forum
The International Poetry Forum will 
present poets Elisavietta Ritchie and Rich
ard Shelton reading their poetry Wednes
day evening, March 26, at 8:00 PM in the 
Carnegie Lecture Hall, Oakland.
Mrs. Ritchie, poet, lecturer, translator, 
writer, editor and teacher, has published 
six books and is currently working on a 
novel. Her latest book of poems was 
published in 1977 - Moving to Larger 
Quarters. She was among the poets recent
ly invited to the White House by President 
Carter.
Mr. Shelton is a professor at the Univer
sity of Arizona teaching poetry, writing 
and giving graduate seminars. He has pub
lished nine books of poetry, one of which - 
The Tattooed Dessert - won the 1970 
U.S. Award of the International Poetry 
Forum.
Tickets are available at $4.00 and $2.50 
for students and senior citizens.
The International Poetry Forum is 
funded by the A. W. Mellon Educational 
and Charitable Trust and is sponsored by 
the Carnegie Library, Oakland.
For further information, call 621-9893.

---------------------------------------------------

March 18, 1980-TARTAN-Page 17
Shadow Box is a big winner
by Bob Henry
The Shadow Box is a play that revolves 
around the domestic squabbles of three 
terminally ill people. At one level not a 
whole lot happens, and the play and its 
characters do far more telling than 
showing. At another level, however, it is a 
beautifully written affirmation of life, 
telling us that since we dont have much 
time on this planet, wed better get out 
there and start living; not just existing, but 
living. It's running at the Pittsburgh Play
house until March 30, and Id say its 
worth your time and money.
Michael Cristofers play won both a 
Pulitzer Prize and the Tony Award for Best 
Play, something only eight other plays have 
ever done. It is set in three adjacent 
cottages on the grounds of a large hospital, 
and we see the struggles of three dying 
people and a few close relatives and 
friends. Cristofer gives us three variations 
on the same theme; each cottages story 
highlights different attitudes, aspects and 
viewpoints of death, life, and dying. The 
play, though, is far from morbid or 
gloomy. None of the dying people are 
apathetic about their impending death, and 
since they care, we care. Their reactions to 
death have different degrees of anger, fear, 
and humor, and the inevitability of death is 
alternatly presented as bemusing, irritating 
painful and intellectually fascinating. In 
spots the show is quite funiiy and in spots 
it is quite moving, and although the story 
and situation are all about death, the play
itself is all about life.
Overall, the Playhouse does a good job 
with The Shadow Box. Sensitive acting 
and directing give us powerful moments of 
recognition and identification. It is a 
moving production that makes us care 
about the individuals involved. At times, 
though,'the talkiness of the script over
comes the show. The evening seems longer 
than it is, and periodically I found myself 
falling out of the world of the .play. While 
the production does not neccessarily need 
to be speeded up, it does need to be 
intensified.
I would guess that any production of The 
Shadow Box is going to stand, finally,on 
its acting. The play has several monologues 
for example, and essentially its up to the 
individual actor to use Cristofers words in 
a riveting manner. More often than not, 
the Playhouses cast succeeds, but its 
those moments when they dont that 
the play loses its impact and appeal. 
At times I also had some problems with the 
staging. The three stories are told more or 
less simutaneously, and there are some 
awkward moments when one story ends 
and another begins.
These quibbles aside, the Playhouse has 
given us a good production of a very strong 
script. At its worst, the show can be 
summed up by a line one character says 
about another: I got interested in what 
he was doing. Which was nothing. But he 
was doing it so well. And at its best the 
show is funny, stirring, and moving.Don Craig and Kate Young of Shadow Box
Three women, three art fields at Forbes Street
by Alex Czajkowski
Youd be surprised at the number of 
different ways people find to experience 
art. Looking is enough for most people, 
but for others, touching is essential. A very 
few people use other, more unique ways. 
At last weeks Forbes Street Gallery ex
hibit by Drake, Dubin, and Webber, there 
was a visitor at the opening who preferred 
to rub his face in the fiber works for a 
more personal appreciation.
While facial rubbing may be the best 
method for some bulky, loud fiber works, 
it certainly was not the best approach to 
Cheryl Webbers weavings: Hier works are 
best examined with the edges in view. 
Webbers weavings typically show a range 
of color that changes, through degrees of 
shades, from one certain color to a new 
one. In o^e, an orange and red transition 
in fringes, this effect was accomplished 
well. In a much larger piece, however, the 
seperation of each shade by a blue back
ground isolated each part, weakening 
the transition effect.
Webbers best pieces were Atomic War
fare and Complement 1, both consis
ting of highly contrasting color above a 
grey-white section, with irregular, colored 
stripes running through the darker section. 
She also had three little pieces done in 
similar form, but due to unsuitable light 
the details were not discernible. These five
/were the shows most abstract works.
Dawn Drake did actually attempt a 
little abstract satire using Kodak film and 
film boxes, in which blank film was stuck 
onto a pulp-like mixture made from the 
boxes. Kodak film-premodern was 
fairly humorous, looking like a piece of de
veloping paper made of sandstone, com
plete with the Kodak trademark down in 
the corner.
Drakes photography was definitely 
superior to her experimentation with the 
film material. Deserving of special praise 
are her Palm Leaves, a picture of perfect
contrast, arrangement and clarity, and her 
color close-up of a Puma sneaker, which 
she made into an ad complete with copy. 
These pictures both have the sharp focus 
and contrast found in professional photo
graphy.
Rose Dubin also had a color photo of 
an ad she designed, and she not only creat
ed the layout for the ad, but the artwork 
within it. The ad, designed to sell crayons, 
depicts crayon creations coming to life via 
painted bread-do ugh.. This piece is so 
professionally done that if a Crayola rep
resentative saw it, he wouldnt have stayed 
around for the whole show.
Some of Dubins other canvasses, most 
notably A Chorus Line (a line of wouldbe Venus de Miloes), were appealing but 
slightly too bright and too flat. In fact, 
lack of dimension was the major flaw 
throughout the entire show.
Dubin is a good commercial illustrator, 
Drake a good photographer, and Webber a 
good weaver, but this is not enough. Al
though these works may have been tech
nically superb, these artists are not really 
getting below the surface of things.
International pianist Baciero at CMU
CMUs Music Department will pre
sent internationally acclaimed pianist 
Antonio Baciero in concert, Thursday, 
March 20,1980 at 12:30 PM.
Baciero will perform Four Centuries of 
Spanish Keyboard, which includes an ar
ray of sonatas. These sonatas include pieces 
written from the sixteenth to the nine
teenth century by Spanish composers.
Antonio Baciero comes to CMU after
performing in England, France, Germany, 
Belgium, America, and other international 
music centers. Baciero, said to be a musical 
prodigy, gave his first concert when he was 
ten years old. He has received many awards 
from many countries, and most recently 
was honored by France for his outstanding 
achievements and contributions to the mu
sical world.
The performance will be in the Alumni 
Concert Hall in the College of Fine Arts 
Building on the CMU campus. The concert 
is free and open to the public.
a
Ea
3
Bcic<?BBCl
Cl
DOfdHBBBciBBc
PROSPECTIVE TEACHERS: Science/ 
Technical Instructors. BS/MS graduate 
school level position in excellent Florida 
setting. Starting salary $I2,000-$13,000 
with competitive benefit package in
cluding medical, dental and life insur
ance coverage. Scheduled solary in
creases to $21,000 at four years. Poten
tial tuition aid for those candidates 
completing final year of undergraduate 
or graduate education. Applicants must
possess U.S. Citizenship and be under 28
years of age. Call or write to arrange 
future on-campus interview with Mr. 
Dave Leonard 1000 Liberty Avenue, 
Suite 711, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222; 
TELEPHONE 644 5896.
STUDENT GOVERNMENT 
TREASURER SEAT OPEN
. PETITIONS AVAILABLE 
AT SKIBO INFORMATION DESK
TO BE TURNED IN NO LATER THAN 
12:00 MIDNIGHT 
MARCH 21,1980
COUNSELORS
AND
SPECIALISTS
BEAUTIFUL COED CAMP 
IN POCONO MOUNTAINS 
SALARY RANGE 
$500- $1200
Alan Friedlonder, Assistant 
Director, will be interviewing at the 
University of Pittsburgh Student 
Employment Office, Room 224. 
Schenley Hall on Wednesday, April 
2, 1980, from 10:00 a.m. until 3:00 
p.m.
Contoct the Pitt Student Em
ployment Office, 624-5752, for an 
appointment or drop in on the 2nd. 
You can also contact us directly:
NEW JERSEY YMHA-YWHA 
CAMPS
21 Plymouth Street 
Fairfield. New Jersey 07006 
201-575-3333

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18-TAR TAN-March 18,1980
Mary Stuart concludes its world premiere run
by Michelle Weinberg
The Pittsburgh Metropolitan Stage Com
pany presented the Columbia Encyclopedia 
Presents Mary Stuart, Queen of Scotland at 
the Lion Walk Performing Arts Center. A 
new play by CMU professor David Ball, 
Mary Stuart was written in an attempt to 
protray the headstrong Queen of Scotland 
in a more realistic light compared with the 
cold academic characterizations found in 
encyclopedias and history books. The play 
was cleverly constructed, with two aca
demicians poring over books and notes on 
stage. It was the past being described, yet 
all the action was going on in the present in 
front of the audience. However, in its 
attempt at realistic characterization pro
duction became too often a caricature of 
Mary and her sister/enemy Elizabeth.
It is clear that director Jim Boerlin, a 
member of the cast as well, desired to ex
pose all of the earthy, unglorified goings 
on of these two famed women. What re
sults, however, are two very one-dimen
sional characters; Mary is a scandalous, 
conniving wench while Elizabeth is a 
tight, smug bitch. It is a reminiscent of 
the musical, Chicago with its And now, 
those sensational killer-dillers, those two 
scintillating sinners... as Maryand Eliza
beth try to top one another with their men 
and other exploits. While these character
izations create marvelous ironies with the
textbook personalities, poor Mary and Eliz
abeth on stage are hopelessly doomed to 
playing battling schoolgirls on a play
ground somewhere. Boerlin treats these
women very uncomplimentarily, not giving 
them a chance to combat with some ima
ginative portrayals. Their grimy mouthed 
bouts on stage become mere mudslinging 
exercises, and after a while the gross, 
damning imagery becomes boring. In fact, 
the two damn each other so many times, 
that it was difficult to take it seriously. It 
is unfortunate that these two women could 
not offer more substantive performances.
The entire play was dotted with a sub
stantial amount of cartoon characters that 
caused it to become truly farsical. Boerlin, 
in particular, in his portrayals of the dod
dering pope and of a sado-masochistic 
monk, maniac bordered on the sort of exag
gerated humor that one might find in a 
Monty Python skit. Exaggeration is the 
simplest form of humor, and while enter
taining momentarily, it is really just silli
ness. In all drama, there is a fine line des 
cernable when a risk taken by an actor or 
director is highly effective, and when it is 
taken to the extreme and thus becomes 
dramatic doggerel. This gross overplaying 
reduced Mary Stuart to a weak brand of 
slapstick which included insipid Italian 
accents, contrived laugh lines and hammy 
staginess.
However, there were some patches of 
brilliance. Interspersed throughout the 
play were short, simple dances and songs 
which enhanced the tedious dialogue. 
These, often comical, at times romantic, 
were truly creative bits of theater to be 
pounced upon by the starved theatergoer. 
While they were not always cohesively 
placed, they provided for this reviewer the 
bit of candy in the ice cream which turns 
up when you least expect it, and yet pro
vides the most pleasure.
By far the most exciting performance 
was given by Casey Childs, a CMU graduate
student in directing. Childs played the role 
of Bothwell, one of Marys lovers banished 
to a Danish rat-infested prison. As banal as 
were the other performances, his acting 
was imaginative and truly powerful. He 
expertly portrayed the healthy young man 
whose lusty love is slowly rotting with in
sanity in a desperate prison cell. Childs 
every word was charged with dramatic im
portance. Not a line was wasted, but was 
accentuated skillfully with every move
ment of his body. This performance high
lighted what could easily have become a 
trite piece of theatrical foppery.
Being There with Mr. Sellers
meihaniial & Electrical Engineering Graduates
Black & Decker, the leader in the grow
ing powertool industry, has outstanding 
entry level opportunities offering un
common career potential for engineer
ing graduates in the above disciplines.
Please visit our Representative on 
April 2
If not available on this date, please 
forward your resume to John Shobert, Personnel Department
\ Black & Decker
701 East Joppa Road 
Towson, Maryland 21204
An equal opportunity employer. M/F
by Tennyson Bardwell
Amidst its carefree flow, clever subtleties 
and placid humor, Being There is a pithy 
satire of contemporary American society.
Chance (Peter Sellers) is a gardener who 
has never, in his recollected past, been 
off the estate of the old man whose grounds 
he keeps. Television is his constant com
panion, and, in fact, there is a set in 
almost every room of the house (sound 
familiar?), including the garage. He watches 
through all his daily activities, as he has 
for years, never learning to read, write or 
even think. He simply watches and watches 
an an undoubting, benign condition of 
ignorance.
Chance is content being a prototype 
of the American boob-tube baby, but 
the old man tries to force this intellectually 
.stunted planter into the real world, where 
there are no commercials to serve as 
periodic breathers from reality, or remote 
control channel changers to shield vicarious 
participants, like Chance, from the more 
insipid moments of human existence.
Nevertheless, the film promulgates the 
message that Life is a state of mind, 
and no matter how naivply this state is 
derived, if embedded deeply enough, it 
will endure. So Chance carries his cerebral 
emptiness into the unsheltered streets 
where it is instantly misconstrued as 
brilliance. His simplistic, feebleminded 
utterances are accepted allegoricallly so 
that he appears sagacious instead of non
sensical. Even the President of the United 
States quotes him with confidence in a
scene that derides the fatuous certainty 
of our nations recent leaders.
The press quickly begins to nurture the 
image that Chance has unintentionally 
molded for himself. This is the real irony 
of it all! The persistence of commerciali
zation is what caused Chances wasted 
development in the first place: This con
stant foray of predetermined conclusions 
is precisely what dulled his thinking ability 
forever. For the press now to mistake 
one of their own victims as their worthy 
leader is indeed an insightful paradox
Peter Sellers is astounding as Chance, 
and well deserves his Academy Award 
nomination for Best Actor. He not only 
shows a deep understanding of his charac
ter, but also displays a masterful technique 
in making Chance come to life. The picture 
itself cannot stand up to Sellers acute 
interpretation. 
Too much subtlety and too lijttie 
change of pace keep Being There from 
the excellent status. Possibly better in 
Jerzy Kosinskis novel form, Being There 
still makes its point as a film. It is a power
ful theme developed with an interesting, 
if not intriguing, plot.
With the message of televisions immi
nent danger clear and widely agreed upon, 
the fact that almost every television pro
gram and commercial used in the film is 
recognizable by niney-five percent of the 
audience becomes even more painful. One 
is forced to wince at the filmmakers social 
perception _ and at ones own vul
nerability to media brainwashing.
Five ways to stop talking to yourself:
1. Wire your jaw shut.
2. Take up ventriloquism;
3. Chew constantly.
4. Become popular.
5. Write for TARTAN Entertainment.
The Gould Engineer Development Program 
the difference between a job and a true career.
Lets talk about your career in Sales, Product 
Development or Operations at Gould.
Sign up for an interview.
We will be on campus:
Gould hasgrown to over $2 billion in sales placing it 152nd 
on the Fortune list of multinational corporations. This suc
cess has been largely due to Goulds ability to draw on its 
technical talent to design new products and then market 
them through its world-wide distribution system.
Monday, April 7 
Carnegie-Mellon University
Career Services & Placement 
5000 Forbes Avenue WH-19 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
To support this growth, Gould has instituted the Engineer 
Development Program in which candidates enter one of 
three career tracks with hands-on assignments at a Gould 
facility Concurrently the candidate will participate in a 
formal training orogram as well as be individually coun
seled as to thet.FT' r path designed specifically for each 
engineer's taleni and ambitions.
Contact us directly:
Robert Armstrong/Personnel Representative 
Gould Inc., Electrical Products Group
60 Gould Center, Rolling Meadows, IL 60008
Call (collect): (312)981-5192
We wish to talk with electrical, industrial and mechanical 
engineering graduates ready to begin a true career in the 
development, production and sale of electrical products 
ranging from miniature components to complete systems
An Equal Opportunity Employer MIFIH .> GOULD
An Electrical/Electronics Company

---------------------------------------------------

INTERMEDIATE FINALSC-Men from Tulsa and Born to Run take IMcrowns
Delta UpsilonFGFTPTS
Parris211 ^5
Vecchio73, 17
Ott328
Berkenstock000
Jaworski306
Keunzig000
OConnor000
Total15636
Bom to RunFGFTPTS
Calabria306
Clifford010
Flanders000
Fulton339
Gould000
Horgan6315
Neisser000
Parker011
Wallace317
Total
by Wes Seeley
Another member of the Carnegie-Mellon 
football coaching staff has accepted a Di
vision I coaching position. Defensive Coor
dinator Richard Moe Smith, the man 
who built the Tartan defense .that led the 
nation in fewest points allowed, has accep
ted a position as linebacker coach at South
ern Illinois University. Smith joins the 
staff of fourth-year head coach. Ray 
Dempsey who guided the Salukis to an 8-3 
record in 1979. Last month, Running 
Back Coach Ray Hit chins left to take a 
similar position at Miami University of 
Ohio.
Smith, 33, leaves after four years with 
the Raid during which he played a large
part in the phenomenal success of the Tar
tans in the last few years. Defensively, 
Moes Maniacs have ranked first in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference in defense 
three out of the four seasons that Smith 
was here.
Head Coach Chuck Klausing said that he 
was very sorry to have Moe leave. He 
was a valuable member of our staff and one 
of the best teachers on campus. His 
defense had a big test every Saturday and 
each week they passed with flying colors.
Professionally , it was a good move for 
Coach Smith but he will be missed. He will 
be very hard to replace.
No successor for Coach Smith has been 
named.Coach Richard "Moe" Smith, shown here with some of his Maniacs, is latest Tartan coach to make 
the move to Division I.
MAJORS FINALS
Bill Kiselick of the 
Majors final last Friday night.
by Wes Seeley
The C-Men from Tulsa used a balanced 
scoring attack and some clutch free throw 
shooting in the last few minutes to take a 
57-52 decision over the Macks in the Major 
League finals of intramural basketball last 
Friday night in the feature game at the 
32nd Intramural Night. In the preliminary 
game, Born to Run fell behind early but 
came on strong in the second half to down 
Delta Upsilon, 39-36 to take the Intermedi
ate championship.
In that early game, DUs Ken Vecchio 
scored consistently from outside in the 
first half to give them an early lead. Born 
to Run, led by Dan Horgan, fought back, 
however, and took a two point lead at in
termission. They stretched their lead in the 
third quarter but, again led by the shooting 
of Vecchio, DU rallied back to within one in 
the final stanza. With time running out, 
Steve Fulton calmly hit from the foul line 
to give Born to Run their three point de
cision.
In the Majors finale, the Macks played 
the C-Men even in first quarter but fell be
hind to stay in the second stanza. Bill 
Kiselick of the C-Men scored nine of his 
ten points in the first half and at intermis
sion they !t:d 28-17.
The C-Men kept their lead through the 
third quarter but, in the fourth, the Macks 
fought back to within three as Mike 
Gurskey and Rocky Cersosimo worked 
from the perimeter and Dave Stefanick 
scored from inside. Bill Humphreys scor
ing from the field and the foul shooting of 
Tom Frost was enough to hold off the, 
until then, undefeated Macks and send the 
title to Tulsa.
o
o .c a
Dave Stefanick in the
The night before, the championships 
in the other two intramural divisions 
were decided. In the Minor League, the 
Absolute Idealists downed Skid Row, 
37-23. In the Womens League, Hot Choco
late broke a 12-12 halftime tie and de
feated Jajajujube-Dily, 32-27.
During the intermission between games, 
trophies were given to the champions of 
sports that have been completed to date. 
Here are the sports and their champions. 
DartsTheta Xi 
Team Table TennisGurus 
WrestlingPika; Individual Winners135 
Gib MillerPika; 141 Jim HackettBeta; 
148 Bill GensPika; 158 Tom QuickKS; 
170 Kevin RiggsKS; 190 Tom PalermoATO; 205 Rick BaederBeta; Heavy weight - 
Dave MeasickBeta.
BasketballMajorsC-men from Tulsa; 
IntermediateBom to Run; MinorsAbso
lute Idealists; WomensHot Chocolate. 
BowlingSAE;.High GameLionel Arensberg246; High SeriesDave Radack599. 
Touch FootballMajorHaven II; Interme
diateKS; MinorPika-B; WomensKappa 
Kappa Gamma.
TennisMajorSex Pistols; IntermediateAces.
GolfGSIA; Low ManJohn Wright 
GSIA-69.
Co-Rec VolleyballMajorCoaches AllStars; MinorsSpike & Gang.
Cross CountryCampus ChampionsMath 
Dept.; Womens ChampionE.E. Raiders; 
First PlaceBob NagleMath; Second 
PlaceG. CobbORC; Third PlaceJ. 
LamerBELT.
Water PoloPhi Kappa Theta 
ChessC.H.E.G.S.A. Chess Nuts
C-MenFGFTPTSMacks
Frost3612Cersosimo
Kiselick*4210Gurskey
Humphrey6012Liput
Schwartz408Stefanick
Murawski328Fawcett
Rome to135Kubinski
Arturo000Bergmann
Mechas102
Total
Total221357
FGFTPTS
7014
7014
204
6416
102
102
000
24452
Born to Run's Greg Calabria goes up for a shot in the Intermediate final as two Delta Upsilon defen
ders look on.
SoccerMajorBootstraps; MinorPeriod;
MVPRaul Medina-Mora.
Team VolleyballMajorCoaches All-Star;
IntermediatePhi Kap; MinorOverdue;
WomensMahogany. MVP-Kris Scigliano.
RaquetballMajorHermaphrodites; MinorExcitable Boys.
3-Person VolleyballMajor.Stars; MinorMudge Men.
Coaches AllCoach 'Moe' takes Division I coaching position

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20-TAR TAN-March 18, 1980
Tartan trackmen in top form to defend title
by Dario Donatelli
The Tartan trackmen have been working 
hard in preparation for the upcoming sea
son and their first championship defense 
which will take place May 2 and 3. The 
Tartans look awesome this year with 15 
of 22 conference point getters returning, 
including the 4 conference champions 
from last year Ken Hallinan (400 meter
dash), Steve Holmes (triple jump), Joe 
Wagner (javelin) and Jeff Klaiber (800 
meter run). The team will be bolstered by 
a good number of talented freshmen and 
newcomers. Head coach Gary Meckley 
says, Im expecting a lot out of my trackmen this year and I think they have the po
tential to live up to every one of my expec
tations.
Senior tri-captain George Canepa will
Tartan golfers ready to tee off
by Gary Petrosky
With all of the team members returning 
from last year, the CMU golf team is look
ing forward to having much success in the 
upcoming season. A summer of addition
al experience should give the men more 
confidence, says Coach Ray Haynes. The 
experience from last season should help the 
Tartans improve on their third place finish 
in the Presidents Athletic Conference 
championship of a year ago.
Last year, the linksters recorded an 
overall record of 16 wins 13 losses. In PAC 
competition, they compiled a 15-7 work.
The list of returnees from last years 
squad is headed up by last seasons team 
Most Valuable Player Tom Sheridan. He 
is joined by seniors Dave Radack and Scott 
Huey Mourier, junior Tony Palermo and 
sophomores Don Behnke, John Lewis, 
Gary Petrosky and Terry Schladenhaufen. 
Promising newcomers who qualified in the 
fall try-outs were sophomore Tom Mort
imer and freshman Mike McShane. Several
others are expected to tryout for the squad 
this spring.
Qualifying rounds for places on this 
years team will be held as soon as the 
weather breaks. The squad will be cut on 
the basis of qualifying round scores to a 
total of eight golfers. All players, be they 
returning lettermen or newcomers, must 
qualify.
A year ago, the Tartan golf team got a 
head start on the rest of the conference by 
travelling south to Myrtle Beach, South 
Carolina over spring break. But this year, 
due to the unavailability of transportation, 
the team wont be making the trip.
The schedule for the 1980 season is as 
follows:
April 5-at Hiram; 11-Westminster; 15- 
John Carroll, Case Western Reserve and 
Thiel; 19,20-at Griffin Motors Invitational; 
22-at Duquesne; 24-Robert Raymond 
Invitational; 30, May 1,2-PAC Champion
ships.
lead an enthusiastic group of fieldmen into 
the season this year with the following 7 
returning varsitymen; Joe Wagner; Bob 
Conrad, Jim Steinke, Chris Grinnel, Pete 
Hall and Bob Kromer. Theyll be getting 
lots of help from freshmen Rich Andros, 
Vic Parrott, Paris Durante, Bill Clouse and 
Keith Jaworski.
In the sprinting department Junior 
tri-captain Joe Goldcamp will lead his 
bunch of blazing sprinters into the season 
with 4 returning veterans; Ken Hallinan, 
Dave Delo, Joe Giansante, and Mike 
Beulah. Newcomers Mike Zellhart, John 
Wooldridge, Dave Ganis and Mark Klein, 
should help the squad greatly while the fol
lowing group of freshmen will no doubt 
overwhelm the competition: Jay Loomis, 
Avi Orenstein, Kevin Cure ton and Fran 
Dobscha.
As in the field events and the sprinting 
the distance men, led by Junior tri-captain
Dario Donatelli, All-American Craig Woolheater and conference champion Jeff 
Klaiber, will be able to hold off the rest 
of the conference. The depth of the dis
tance team will come from returning run
ners John Wachter, Bernie Ivanshultz, 
Dave Chisholm, Greg Lentz, Kevin Buckson and Bruce Krebbers. Newcomer Ted 
Grauel and freshmen Mark Knapp, Randy 
Anderson and Ed Mcvay can all help the 
team.
Barring injury or an unforseen tragedy, 
by the end of April the Tartans should 
prove to be the team to beat in the Presi
dents Athletic Conference.
Here is the 1980 track schedule:
April 5-Case Western Reserve and Wash
ington and Jefferson at W&J; 12-PAC 
Relays at John Carrol; 19-Thiel and John 
Carrol (1:00); 23-Hiram (3:30); 26-Allegheny and Bethany (1:00); May 2,3-PAC 
Championship at Hiram.
Tennis team looks to net title
There is an Election Appeals Beard meeting tonight at 6:30 PM in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. Be There.
by Chris Kopchak
Carnegie-Mellons Mens Tennis team 
opens its 1980 season March 31 with a 
non-conference match against Pitt.
This years squad consists of seven 
returning lettermen: Greg Maskarinec,
Jim Silvey, Brian Wolf, Chris Kopchak, 
Mike Straub, John Sze and Dave Kirby. 
Three promising freshmenHenry Chung, 
Matt Corley and Randy Howieround out 
the squad.
The team has been practicing indoors 
twice a week at the Airport Racquet Club 
since the middle of January and hopes to 
improve on its third place Presidents 
Athletic Conference finish of a year ago. 
Coach Mark Bush feels that this years 
team has the potential to win the PAC. 
With perennial power of Case Western 
Reserve losing four of its top six players
to graduation, the battle for the title 
appears to be between CMU and 
Allegheny.
The team will be practicing over spring 
break and has scheduled several exhibition 
matches with various area schools in order 
to prepare for the conference schedule.
The mens tennis schedule is as follows: 
March 31 - Pitt (2:00).
April 2 - at Washington and Jefferson; 
8 - at Westminster; 12 - at John Carroll;
14 - Bethany (3:30); 16 - Case Western 
Reserve (3:00); 17 - Grove City (1:00); 
19 - Hiram (1:00); 20 - at Robert Morris;
21 - Duquesne (1:00); 23 - Thiel (1:00); 
26 - at Allegheny.
May 1L - PAC Championships at 
Allegheny.
ACTUARIAL 
SCIENCE FORUM
MARCH 19, 1980 
7:00 P.M. 
ROOM 13 SKIBO
Learn about the Actuarial Science program at 
Carnegie-AAellon University and your career opportunities 
as an actuary. Two Actuaries will speak about their 
profession and will answer your questions concerning an 
actuarial career.
Materials about the program at CMU will be available 
at the meeting.
For additional information about the Forum call the 
Actuarial Science coordinator at 578-2151.
Refreshments will be served.
NEED A RIDE 
TO THE AIRPORT?
RIDE THE 
A PHI O SHUTTLEBUS 
FRIDAY, MARCH 21
LEAVING FROM
MOREWOOD
GARDENS
11:45 am 
2:15 pm 
4:45 pm
DONNER
HALL
12:00 Noon 
2:30 p.m. 
5:00 p.m.
PRICE $2.50
TICKETS AVAILABLE AT:
SKIBO INFORMATION DESK

---------------------------------------------------

W&I
March 18,1980-TARTAN-Page 21
Tartan skaters continue strong play as playoffs near
The CMU Tartans extended its winning 
streak to seven games in a row last Sunday, 
defeating second place Cleveland State, 
4-2. John Paxton scored the first goal of 
the game on a rebounding shot from Joe 
ONeill with an assist credited to Joe 
Chaves. Five minutes later, Mark Licata 
and Mike Panno set up Arch Werner for 
his first goal of the season.
The second period saw Cleveland 
score their first goal. However, Mike 
Panno came back to score the Tartans 
third, with an assist by Mark Licata and
at the second intermission, the Tartans 
led, 3-1.
Midway through the third period, 
George Elgart scored with a blistering shot 
from the point, with assists from Joe 
Chaves and Joe Pajer. With fifty seconds 
left, Cleveland scored another. It was not 
enough as the Tartans won, 4-2.'
Unfortunately the Tartans winning 
streak came to a frustrating halt against 
Point Park on Thursday night. The Tartans 
took the early lead with Jeff Reh scoring 
unassisted and Mark Licata tallying one
Baseball Club may be "best yet
by Tom Yogan
The Tartan Baseball Club opens their 
season with a doubleheader against Penn 
St.- New Kensington on Sunday March 30 
at Mellon Park. For the past few weeks, the 
team has been holding drills indoors awaiting a break in the*weather.
Returning seniors on the squad are 
Rick Brown, Frank Chirumbole, Tom 
Yogan, Phil Gacka, Dave Fawcett, Mark 
DiCarlo, Art Papay, and Jamie Pattison. 
Other returning regulars include Jim 
Brown, Ed Novak, Jim Pepka, Bernie 
Lawrence, and Tim Perrott.
Tartan Coach Bill Scrappy Allen 
feels this year may be the best yet. This 
team is the deepest weve ever had here, 
and for the first time there is competi
tion for positions. Of course, it all comes 
down to pitching, and well have to wait 
until we get outside to see what we really 
have. I feel very confident in our staff.
The Tartan schedule consists of 28 
games with local teams, including Pitt, 
Point Park, and Duquesne. The Tartans 
play their home games at Mellon Park, 
located at Fifth and Penn Avenues in 
Point Breeze.
The 1980 schedule is as follows:
March 30- Penn St.- New Kensington (2) 
1:00.
April 1- at Duquesne (2) 12:00; 5-at 
Point Park (2) 12:00; 7-at St. Francis (2) 
12:00; 11- at Pitt (2) 12:00; 12- Penn St,- 
McKessport (2) 12:00; 13-at Point Park (2) 
1:00; 19-at Allegheny C.C.(SouthCampus) 
12:00; 20- at Penn St. - New Kensington 
(2) 1:00; 23- at Butler C.C. 3:00; 24- at 
Pitt (2) 12:00; 26- at Duquesne (2) 12:00; 
27- at Penn St.- McKeesport (2) 12:00; 
29- at Comm. Coll. (Beaver) 1:00.
May 1- at Allegheny C.C. (South Cam
pus) 1:00; 3- at Butler C.C. (2) 12:00.
IN MEMORIUMThis space is in memory of eighteen members of the U.S. Amateur boxing 
team, their coach, the team physician and his wife and the boxing official that 
died in the crash of a Polish Airways jet in Warsaw last Friday.
Think of them.
Great Moments in the history of hair
ONE MILLION B.C. . .Blech, a 
Stone Age plumber, discovers a 
clump of matted fibers clogging a 
drain on a routine aqueduct re
pair job. He calls the substance 
hair
"But we always thought this 
stuff was feathers", insists Kneg, 
his helper.
"Dummy", counters Blech. "If 
this was feathers, we'd be able to
fly like those pteradactyls".
With the discovery of hair, pluck
ing salons disappear. Philoso
phers have something to split in 
their search for Truth.
Now you can stop searching for 
the truth about your hair. Get a 
haircut you can fly with. No 
appointments required. For gals 
and guys.
QMfl CRMOBTIOnS.
HAIRCUTS
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
noo
Mon. Tues. Wed. -10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLORING
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
687-3500
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMANENTS
25oo
NO
APPOINTMENTS
four to two.
Dave Tozer played well in the two 
games stopping fifteen shots from Cleve
land State and twenty-one from Point 
Park. The Tartans season record now
stands at 8 and 9 and Coach Donny 
McDade believes that the clubs winning 
tendencies are still alive. With three games 
left, the Tartans can easily make the play
offs and are determined to do just that.
Briles to appear at benefit
//
KDKA radio and television broadcaster 
Nelson Briles will join the Pirate Parrot as 
the World Champion Pirates representa
tives at the City of Champions Sports 
Nite to be held on April 20 at 7:00 PM in 
the Skibo Gym. Briles is entering his sec
ond season as the color commentator on 
broadcasts of Pirate baseball. The Pirates 
are scheduled to fly to Montreal for a 
series against the Expos that evening and 
will not he able to send a player to repre
sent them.
Briles will join representatives of the 
Steelers, Spirit, Penguins, Pitt Panthers 
and Duquesne Dukes at the event which 
will conclude Spring Carnival weekend. 
Bob Prince will be the master of cere
monies.
Football coach Chuck Klausing has also 
extended invitations to all former CMU 
basketball coaches and their players and to 
all the players that he coached while at 
Indiana University of Pennsylvania and 
Braddock High School.
All proceeds from the Sports Nite will 
benefit the Jimmy Starr Memorial Scholar
ship Fund. Admission is five dollars and 
refreshments are included.
Tickets are available from members of 
the CMU football team, at participating 
Stop and Go stores and at the CMU foot
ball office.
Anyone wanting more information can 
call Coach Klausing in the Athletic Depart
ment at 578-2216.
Bootstraps down Pitt champs
The Intra-Mural soccer champions: the 
Bootstraps from the Computer Science 
Department were invited by the Pittsburgh 
Spirit indoor soccer team to play the pre
liminary game to their playoff game 
against Buffalo last thursday evening. The 
Bootstraps played against Phi Gamma Delta, 
fraternity champions of the University of 
Pittsburgh.____________________________
The Bootstraps won the game by a score 
of 2-0, with goals scored by Raul MedinaMora and Bernd Bruegge. A very strong 
defense was responsible for the shut out. 
The rest of the players were: Jim Adams, 
Barbara Adams, Don Cohen, Bob Fitz
gerald, Brad Holser, Paul Knueven, Rich
ard Korf, Horst Mauersberg, Charles 
Thorpe and Andy Strazds.
Electrical Engineering 
and Computer Science Majors
San Francisco Bay Area Computer and Computerized 
Telephone Equipment Manufacturer seeks talented 
individuals interested in:
 Telephony
 Microprocessor Applications
 Digital and Analog Design
 CPU and Memory Design
 Real Time Systems Software
 Data Communications Software
 System Programming Languages
 Hardware/Software Interfacing
 Test Engineering
 Production Engineering
 Field Engineering
ROLM Corporation, located in Santa Clara, 
California, has grown 50 - 100% each year and 
currently has 2600 employees. ROLMs Tele
communications Division is the leading indepen
dent supplier of computerized PBXs (CBX) and 
microprocessor controMed telephones. ROLM s 
Mil Spec Computer Division offers a complete 
line of rugged general purpose minicomputers
Included in ROLMs outstanding benefits 
package is a three month paid sabbatical after 
six years (and every seven years thereafter). 
Company paid tuition and time off for Graduate 
Study at Stanford, and flexible working hours.
On Campus Interviews
Friday, March 14, 1980
Meet with Working Hardware and Software Engineers 
from ROLM in the Placement Center. See our Company 
Literature in the Placement Center.
If unable to attend an interview.
send resume to
Gibson Anderson 
Engineering Group Manager 
ROLM Corporation 
4900 Old Ironsides Drive 
Santa Clara. CA 95050
We are an equal oppor tunitytattirmative action employercan
CORPORATION

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22-TARTAN-March 18,1980
Foul shooting and swimming titles to be decided this week
by Leslie Weiser
There are lots of announcements about 
spring sports this week.
Foul Shooting started yesterday. Par
ticipants shot the first 50 yesterday and 
will shoot the second 50 today. In hard
ship cases, you may shoot all 100 on 
Tuesday from 4:30-6:00 in the Main Gym. 
You may participate as an individual or 
a team. The commissioner is A1 Fountain, 
phone 621-6323.
This is the last call for handball entries. 
They are due Tuesday, March 18 at 4:30. 
One more team is needed for handball.
Individual Call Pool commissioner is 
Phil Spano who can be reached at 683-2858.
This is the last call for Bridge, we still 
need a commissioner.
This is also the last call for Team 
Badminton Entries are due Tuesday, March 
18 at 4:30. Games will start after spring 
break, each Tuesday and Thursday in the 
Main Gym from 4:30 ro 6:00. The com
missioner is John Brandt and can be 
reached at X5901.
Fencing entries are due Thursday March 
20 at 4:30 PM. The commissioner is Miss 
Fisk from the womens phys ed depart
ment. She can be reached at extension 
2220.
This is the last call for Softball entries.
More teams are still needed, especially 
womens. The entries are due today at 
4:30 PM. Games start March 31. The com
missioners are Mike Pochan, majors, phone 
578-2247; Dave Hofmeister, intermediate, 
phone 578-4007; Wes Seeley, minors, 
phone 5784004; womens, Mariano 
DeFilippo, phone 578-4002. There will be 
a rules clinic on Wednesday, March 19th 
at 4:30 PM in the womens gym. Every 
team must have a representative at this 
rules clinic.
The intramural Swim Meet will be held 
on Wednesday, March 19th at 4:30 in the 
CMU pool. You may enter as an individual 
or a team. Commissioners are Dave Watterson, phone 678-9235 and Dan Willis, 
phone 922-0814. There will be special 
heats in all events for women only. The 
order of events is: 200 Yard Medley Relay,
50 Yard Freestyle, 100 Yard Individual 
Medley, 50 Yard Butterfly, LOO Yard 
Freestyle, 50 Yard Back Stroke, 50 Yard 
Breaststroke, 200 Yard Freestyle, 200 
Yard Freestyle Relay.
Track entries are due April 10.
This is the last call for Co-Rec Table 
Tennis^ The entries are due March 20, at
4.30 Ppf. The commissioner is Jim Satrape, Today at 4:30 PM is the deadline for softball entries. The rules clinic is Wednesday at 4:30.
X4327.
Just when you thought it was safe to read the TARTAN again ...
Jean II: THE NATRAT
. .. coming soon
FINANCIAL AID JOBS 
AVAILABLE
University Food Service has a choice of 150 shifts open: 
One is sure to fit your particular needs. Stop by. 
Room 62, Skibo Hall - 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Attention 
those presently on F.A. - 
You may increase your loan if
1) you care to work more hours or
2) you are about to run out of F.A. money ending 
your employment.
Check with F.A. Office, 2nd floor, Warner Hall.

---------------------------------------------------

and all my friendsTo the brothers of DU
iwunThank you for everythingGlenn a.k.a. Drakes
[Girls...Are you looking for a summer coun
selor position? Applicants are now being 
considered for the 1980 camp season. 
Must be able to teach one of the following: 
Arts&Crafts Director, Piano Accompanist 
singing, Archery, Tennis Trampoline, 
(Gymnastics, Photography, Cheerleading, 
I Scouting and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swim
ming Instructor, Boating, Canoeing and 
(Water Skiing Instructor or General Athjletics.
[Counselor Unit Leaders must be college 
graduate experienced in camping. Able to 
Iplan schedule for activities, evening pro
-ams, etc. Supervise large staff. Write 
jCamp Office, 6410 Beacon St, Pittsburgh, 
|PA 15217, or phone, 412-521-2376. 
JOB HUNTING? Get more interviews 
/ith a professionally prepared, indivi
dually designed resume from employlent experts. Complete writing, editing, 
typing and printing services. Special 
ptudent discount rates! Call today! 
1ANGO - ANDREWS RESUME 
SERVICE  391-3232.
ass Player with P.A. into new wave or 
)ower pop rock, call Bernie 834-1055. 
TYPING. Experienced. My home. Selectric
11.521-7888.
.ACROSSE PLAYER WANTED.Pitts)urgh Club now playing. Call Mark 
toward at 683-4295 or John Weaver at 
331-5873 for information.
Jilver Coins Wanted. After 5, 521-2749. 
Sides to the airport for Spring Break 
available. Student is willing to take 
neople to the airport; leaving Skibo at:
:00 March 18 
:30 March 19 
:00 March 20 
:00 March 21
tost $2.00; CALL 788-4003 for details, 
/ant it done right? Professional typing, ed
iting prepared by PhD graduate. Manu
scripts, term papers, theses, dissertations. 
IBM Selectric.Prompt, efficient, reason
able. Convenient location. Susan, 281-5222. 
The Summer Studies Office of Carnegielellon University is looking to hire a staff 
)f resident counselors to coordinate and 
Supervise a student-life program for high 
^chool students attending the Advanced 
lacement/Early Admission, Fine Arts Pretollege and Project Upward Bound Projrams. Counselors must be energetic and 
i/illing to live and work closely with the 
)rograms' participants. Compensation is 
>1050 and includes room and board for 
six week session, June 23 through 
vugust 1. Applications, along with the 
Jetailed job descriptions, are available in 
Summer Studies Office, first floor of 
Earner Hall on Tuesday, Thursday, and 
riday mornings between 9 AM and 
Noon.
/ill type term papers, etc. Reasonable
fates. Call before 9 PM, Shirley. 521-0534. 
Summer LifeguardMay 12 thru Aug. 2.
Jse of pool for private lessons in exchange 
|or lifeguarding recreational swimming 
lours (Mon.-Fri. 11:30-1:30 and 4:30- 
30; Sat. Sun. 1:00-4:00). Athletic De
partment x221 1.
Counselors, over 29 for unique overnight
boys' summer camp in Blue Ridge Moun
tains of Penna. Able to instruct either one 
of following: Watersafety, Waterskiing, 
Arts & Crafts, Boating, Soccer, Basketball, 
Athletics, Rockclimbing, R i fiery, Ham 
Radio, Rocketry, Science, Photography, 
Archery,Track, Tennis,Golf, or Pioneering.
 Write Camp Director, 138 Red Rambler 
Drive, Lafayette Hill, PA 19444.
Part-time student for any 3-4 evenings,
15 hrs/weekly. $5.43 per hour, car helpful 
hours flexible. Call (3 PM^6 PM) 682-2652^ 
Senate meeting times  General meets on 
Tuesday at 6:30 in Wherrett; Rules Com
mittee meets at 6:00 on Thursday in Rm 
33, Finance Committee meets 5:30 on 
Wednesday in Rm 12.
Help wantedPart Time SalesEasyEvery 
Friend Is A Potential CustomerDon't 
WaitNo Sales Experience Necessary. Call 
Debbie at 784-8425.
Tai Chi Chuan Instruction: Mental and
Physical Fitness. By Pitt and Organization 
of Chinese American instructor. Every 
Monday 6-7 PM. Starting April 7; Squirrel 
Hill Library. 343-7429 for information. 
EASY EXTRA INCOME: $500/$1000 
Stuffing envelopesGuaranteed. Send selfaddressed stamped envelope to: DEXTER 
ENTERPRISES, 3039 Shrine PI., Los 
Angeles, CA 90007.
announcements
clubs
Scotch 'n' Soda will hold a script review for
the 1980-1981 season on Tuesday, April
22 at 7:30 PM in Skibo room 11. We are 
looking for completed and partially com
pleted scripts, scenes, good ideas, etc. for a 
fall production and for the Spring Musical. 
For more information, please call Tom at 
x4270.COCO (Commuter & Off-Campus Organ
ization) has established a set meeting time 
and place: Wednesdays at 11.30 AM, Skibo
11. Work is beginning on a lounge and 
office space-AII are invited to come and 
help. Bring \tour lunch and come to 
tomorrow's meeting; we'd be glad to have 
you.
The Art Sac wifi be selling fresh brewed
coffee, tea, cocoa, and doughnuts every 
Monday through Wednesday mornings 
9-11:30 in the lobby of the 3rd floor. 
Fine Arts. Proceeds will finance the 
Fine Arts Film Series.
Scotch 'n' Soda Board selection: If you are
interested in being part of the 1980-1981 
SNS Board (President, Vice President, 
Secretary, Business Manager, Publicity 
Manager), please contact either Tom atx4270 or Liz at 682-4551 for details.
ORIENTEERING MEET. The CMU Path
finder Orienteering Club will hold a class B 
orienteering meet on April 5th at Hillman 
State Park. The meet is open to everyone 
and will consist of red, orange and white 
courses with several different age categories 
in each. Awards will be given to the top 
three finishers in each category. Registra
tion fee is $3.00 on the day of the meet. 
The schedule on the day of the meet is as 
follows:
10:00 to 11:15, late registration 
, pre-meet briefing 
rst start
For more information call Mark Wheeler at 
683-2969 or Bob McCabe at 687-4923. 
Tau Beta Pi, the National Engineering Hon
or Society, will hold a meeting in Skibo 
room 11 at 9 PM on Thursday, March 20 
to elect officers and distribute certificates. 
All members and those interested in be
coming members are urged to attend. 
ORCHESTRATORS needed desperately 
for Scotch 'N Soda Musical. Call x4926 
or leave a message at the Scotch 'N Soda 
office, Skibo 40.
The A.B. Concerts Committee will meet
this Wednesday, March 19 at 7:30 PM in 
the A.B. room above Skibo Info Desk to 
discuss plans for the upcoming Spring Car
nival Concert. To be on the committee you 
must attend or contact Ted at X4287. Any
one interested is urged to attend as we 
need lots of people.
Thursday, March 20, the ISO-CMU will
hold its weekly meeting in Skibo Room 12 
at 6 PM. The organization of upcoming 
events, and the Draft Constitution for ISOCMU will be discussed. All interested stu
dents, both American and foreign,are invi
ted to attend.official
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students between 3 and
5 PM in his office on April 4. Students who 
wish to meet with the president should 
telephone his office, 578-2200, to set up 
an appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be a 
benefit to both the president and the stu
dents in allowing students direct contact 
with him.
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities and Social Sciences, will have 
open office hours for students on Tuesday 
from 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
Dean Robert S, Kaplan of GSIA will have 
an open meeting with students wishing to 
discuss economics courses. The meeting will 
take place on Tuesday afternoon, March 18 
from 2 to 3PM in Room 316 in GSIA. 
Armand Castelli, Lt. of Security Dept., will 
hold open office hours on Wednesday, 
March 26 from 1:30 to 4:00. Please call 
Security Office for an appointment - X2323. 
Spainish SP! Students (82-143) REMIND
ER: The second scheduled testing period 
for Self-Paced Spainish will be held March
18 (10:30-12) and March 19 (6:30-8PM) in 
the language laboratory, Margret Morrison 
Room 310. All 12-unit students should 
take the second test of their program at 
that time. The third and final testing period 
for SPI Spainish during Spring 1980 will be 
April 28,29 and 30 at the lab. Extra copies 
of the syllabus are available in BH 240A 
from the departmental secretary. 
Applications for a Special Interest House 
are now being accepted in the Housing 
Office. Deadline Friday, March 21, 1980. 
For details come to the Housing Office. 
Beginning March 24, both the Bookstore 
and the. Artstore will accept valid Visa 
and Mastercharge credit cards for purchas
es. Further details will be available after 
Spring break.
ACHIEVE BETTER GRADES IN YOUR
COURSES by improving your writing 
skills. The Communication Skills Center
offers free individual help with interpret
ing assignments, finding ideas, planning 
and revising. Make appointments with 
faculty and specially trained students 
from 9 - 4 Monday thur Friday at 161 
Baker Hall - 578-2924.general
American Youth Hostels is sponsoring
the slide presentation "Mostly Colorado 
on March 20, and March 27, a 16mm film 
on hiking the length of the Appalachian 
Trail from Maine to Georgia. Presented 
at AYH Council Headquarters, 6300 
Fifth Ave., at 8:45 PM. Free to the 
general public.
Five Pittsburgh women communicators will
talk about their professions in a panel 
discussion Tuesday, March18 at 3 PM in 
Chatham College's Eddy Theatre on the 
Shadyside campus. Their visit, the third 
in an annual series, Women in Communica
tion, is sponsored by the Pittsburgh PostGazette.
The women will discuss their careers 
and the problems and challenges within 
their professions. The panel discussion, 
which will run from 3 to 4:30 PM, is open 
to the public at no charge.
Have a voice in Hillel programming. Help 
plan the opening activities for next Sept
ember. Hillel Leadership Council meeting 
Thursday, March 20, 6 PM at Hillel, 315
S. Bellefield.
Christian Response to Society is the topic
for the Oratory Undergraduate Thursday 
evening program held at 4040 Bigelow 
Boulevard, March 20. The evening begins 
with a folk Mass at 6:30PM followed by a 
free buffet in a circle of fellowship. The 
talk and discussion begins at 8PM. All stu
dents are welcome to all or part of the even
ing. Further information call 681 -3181. 
Engineering Students: Your're invited to 
compete in a national ENERGY EFFI
CIENCY COMPETITION. Urban Scientific 
and Educational Research is accepting 
applications until March 30, 1980. If you 
think you can design a water heater, 
refrigerator-freezer, or air-conditioner that 
saves energy, you could win national 
awards. For more information contact 
USER at P.O. Box 19112/ 20th Street 
Station/ Washington, D.C. 20036.
Lenten Communal Celebration of Penance 
and Reconcilliation will be held at 8 PM on 
Tuesday, March 18, in Heinz Chapel. This 
service of scripture readings, songs, fellow
ship, and reconcilliation is sponsored by 
the University Oratory of the Holy Spirit 
R. C. Parish and is free and open to the 
public. For more information call 681-3181. 
Professor Susan Brienza of the English 
Department and Professor James Buffico 
of the Drama Department will discuss the 
mainstage production of "And Miss Reardan Drinks a Little" on Wednesday, March
19 at 12:30 in the Wherrett Room.
Are you a survivor of the Holocaust 
or a child of a survivor? On March 18, 
1980, Tues. evening at 9PMm in the Rogal 
Room of the JCC, 315 S. Bellefield Avenue, 
there will be a dialogue between survivors 
and children of survivors. Open to all ages. 
Sponsored by B'nai B'rith Hillel.

---------------------------------------------------

Carnegie-Mellon University
during the summer, 1980, will hold two 
six-week sessions as follows: 
1 st SIX-WEEK SESSION 
May 1 3-June 20
Regular Undergraduate Courses
2nd SIX-WEEK SESSION 
June 23-August 1
Regular Undergraduate and Graduate 
Courses
UNDERGRADUATE TUITION: 
$38/unit**  All undergraduates 
GRADUATE TUITION: 
$77/unit** - CFA/CIT/MIS/AMS/H&SS 
$57/unit**  English and History 
M.A./D.A. candidates
**3 units = 1 credit
This is a tentative list of courses to be 
offered. The actual list of courses including 
class schedules will be announced and pub
lished depending upon student response.
Application materials and further information 
will be mailed upon receipt of your inquiry.
Please give your tentative reply as soon as 
possible by completing the attached form 
and returning it to:
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213
Phone (412) 578-2085
Carnegie-Mellon University
Name __________________________________________________________
Mailing Address______________________________________________.
Present School_________________________________________--
I am interested in the following course(s)
Course Number Title Session
Please return this form to
Director, Summer Studies 
Admissions Office
Carnegie-Mellon University 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh. Pa 15213
Camegie-Mellon University
TENTATIVE UNDERGRADUATE AND GRADUATE COURSES FOR SUMMER SESSIONS 
(1) - First Session: May 13  June 20; (2) - Second Session: June 23  August 1
* - Graduate Course Number
Chemistry:
Civil Engineering:
Computar Scianca:
Mathamatlcs:
Machanlcal
Engineering:
Matallurgy and 
Matarais Scianca:
Physics:
Statistics:
Architecture:
Oaslgn:
Administration and 
Managamant
Scianca:
Economica:
English:
History:
Modarn Languagas:
Psychology:
OS-1 OSDynamlca and EquilibriaS units(1)OS-117Organic Chamlatry 1S units(1)OS-310Organic Chamlatry II9 units(3)
12-207Statica9 units(1)12-208Dynamlca9 units(1)
12-211Solid Machanlca 19 units(1)21-318Matarais9 units11 
1 3-104Introduction to Computar A (FORTRAN)9 units(11(3)
18-1119 units(1)0)
31-131Calculus 1 '10 units(1)31-131Calculus 1 (salf-pacad)10 units(1X2)
31-133Calculus II (ragular or aalt-pacad)10 units(11(2)
31-133Calculus III (ragular or salf-pacad)10 units(1)12)
31-141Computational Llnaar Algabra9 units(11(2)31-361Ordinary Dlffarantial Equations (salf-pacad only)4.8 units(1X2)
31-363Partial Dlffarantial Equatlona (aalf-pacad only)4.8 units(1X2)
31-363Vactor Analysis (salf-pacad only)4.8 units(1X2)
31-367Oraph Thaory (salf-pacad only)4.8 units(1X2)
34-113Fluid Machanlca 19 units(1)
34-131Tharmodynamlcs 19 units(1)
34-141Statics and Dynamics9 units(1)
34-303Machanlca of Daformabla Solids10 units(1)
34-308Manufacturing Procassas9 units(1)
34-361Englnaarlng Economy9 units(1)
37-333Procass Matallurgy1 3 units(1X2)
27-332Physical Matallurgy II9 units(1X2)
27-380Saminar9 units(1X2)
27-788Matallurgical Problamsvar. units(1X2)
27-786Maatars Projactvar. units(1X2)
27-778Thaslsvar. units(1X2)
39-227Analysis, Synthasis and Evaluation II9 units(1X2)
33-107Enargy, Tachnology and Sociaty9 units(1)
33-131Phyalcs 1: Machantes (aalf-pacad)10 units(1X2)
33-133Physics II: Haat Wavas and Optics (salf-pacad)10 units(1X2)
33-133Phyalcs III: Elactrlclty and Magnatlsm10 units(1X2)
33-139Elactronlcs 110 units(1)
36-311Probability and Appllad Statistics 19 units(1X2)
36-313Probability and Appllad Statlatics II9 units(1X2)
36-318Probability and Statistics 19 units(1)
36-316Probability and Statistics II9 units(2)
36-319Statistical Mathods for Data Analysis 19 units(1)
36-330Statistical Mathods for Data Analysis II9 units(1X2)
48-308,408Summar Archltactura Studiovar. units(2)
81-103Introduction to Daslgn18 units(2)
81-116Calligraphy9 units(2)
81-122Introduction to Photography9 units(1X2)
87-182Solfaga and Dictation 16 units(2)
87-184Solfaga and Dictation II6 units(2)
87-276Piano Padagogy6 units(2)
37-867*Administration and Suparvlalon In Muaic Education 
(7/14-8/1)6 units(2)
87-873*Principias of Music Education (6/23-7-/11 )6 units(2)
57-878*Contamporary Problams In Music Education6 units(2)
87-880Dalcroza Eurhythmies Workshop 13 units(2)
37-881Dalcroze Eurhythmies Workshop II9 units(2)
87-831*Dlractad Rasaarch6 units(2)
60-119,719*Drawing .9 units(2)
60-120,720*Daaign: Thaory and Application9 units(2)
60-226,726*Painting9 units(2)
60-268,768*Flbar9 units(2)
60-231,731*Scraan Printing9 units(2)
60-233,733*Rallaf9 units(2)
60-333,733*Lithography9 units(2)
60-337,737*Intaglio9 units(2)
60-354,734*Motalcrafts9 units(2)
60-361,761*Sculpture9 units(2)
60-380,780*Contemporary Art9 units(2)
70-101Elements of Industrial Administration 9 units(1)
70-131Accounting 19 units(1X2)
70-311Organisational Behavior 19 units(1X2)
70-333Oovarnment and Business9 units(2)
70-361Foundations of Law9 units(1)
70-371Production 19 units(1)
70-391Finance 19 units(1)
73-100Economic Analyels and Contemporary Problams 19 units'(li73-200Economic Qrowth and Fluctuationa9 unitsli )
73-380Resource Allocation in a Market Economy9 units(1)
73-350Topies In Applied Microeconomics9 units(1)
76-100Strategies for Writing9 units(1)13)
76-101Fiction and Fact9 units(3)
76-344Shakespeare9 units(3)
76-370Profeasionai Writing9 units(2)
76-319,719*Special Tpica in English: Modern Drama9 units(3)
79-391,791*Studlee In Language and Llngulatlca9 units(3)
76-776*Thaory and Practice of Rhetoric and Compoaltlon9 units(3)
79-323Problems in American History: The Presidency9 units(8)
7S-3S3History of the Pittsburgh Region9 units(1)
79-390Recent American Foreign Policy9 units(1X3)
79-391SOth Century America9 units(1X3)
79-477Sea and Death9 units(1)
79-491Europe In the Twentieth Century9 units(1)
79-700*Americans and the National Character13 units(3)
66-601 *Semlrfbr In Curriculum Daaign13 units(3)
83-1011 3 units(1)
83-103Intensive Beginning French1 3 units(3)
83-131Inteneive Beginning German1 3 units(1)
83-132Intensive Beginning German1 3 units(3)
62-141Intensive Beginning Spanleh13 units(1)
62-142Intensive Beginning Spanleh1 3 units(2)
62-402Spanish Conversation and Compoaltlon9 units(1)
63-101General Psychology9 units(1)

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER is dedicating this issues cover to the wonderful holiday 
which is coming up. Although we cant send you roses or stuffed animals, 
we hope that with our material we can make your heart pound, flutter, 
sigh, or skip a beat as well as a friend could do on Valentines Day.
With this first issue of the year, wed like once again to make our plea for 
help. DOSSIER has been trying to expand its range of appeal, but we need 
your talent, suggestions, and knowledge. The quality and frequency of 
this magazine depend on you. We need your input.
Remember also that DOSSIER is now seeking to expand its science 
coverage. Specific article ideas from students and faculty, especially con
cerning science and technology at CMU, will be greatly appreciated.
DOSSIER urges you to participate in what we feel is a tremendous 
outlet for your talents. Please stop by our office in The Tartan and let us in 
on your ideas. Wed like the opportunity to enhance DOSSIER, and that 
will only be accomplished if you get involved.
The DOSSIER staff wishes every one a terrific semester and a February 
14th full of valentines.
Dossier Staff
Editor: Lynn Epstein
Art Directors: Peter Cowell, Jane Novorro
Art Staff: Mark Beard, Peter Cowell, Bruce Meader, Elisabetta Torossi 
Cover Design: A Quark by Peter Cowell
In This Issue
Make Room for Fossils 3
In this months editorial, Lynn Epstein discusses the alienation which 
results not only from the strife between the separate colleges but also 
from the advance of technology itself.
The Lost Weekend of Beaux Arts 4
This coming February 28th, another Beaux Arts will be celebrated by 
Fine Arts students. Richard Gorelick takes a look into the past at the 
romping festivities of former Beaux Arts Balls at CMU.
Energy 5
Joe Ihnat informs us of some new and unusual energy sources, along 
with a discussion of the research and development of several 
fuel-saving devices and methods.
True Merit Wherever Found 6
Paul Fisher reveals some fascinating and entertaining truths about 
CMUs frat, ATO. Written in the New Non-Fiction style, this article 
combines journalism and fiction techniques to create the effect of 
subjective journalism.
Rich Enos 8
Maureen Brennan presents an enthusiastic, intelligent, and personable 
individual in her interview with the English Departments Rich Enos, 
a dedicated rhetorician and professor.
Glenda, at the Laundry, Falls in Love 9
This poem is one in series of Glenda poems written by junior 
writing major Dena Santoro. Entertaining and understated, Denas 
Glenda poems show the day to day life and thoughts of a unique 
and easily empathetic character.
Hospitality House 10
In this short story, Carolyn Toth describes an encounter between two 
different ways of life when three young adults have the unusual 
experience of meeting an old and lonely mountain woman.
Sheepfarming in America 12
Creativity and its applications are age-old enigmas, but Gay Giordano 
presents a very animated dialogue to argue that even sheepherding is
Harlow Shapley Visiting Lecture
Exploration of the Solar System 
With Spacecraft
Professor Richard Teske
University of Michigan
Monday February 9, 8:00 p.m. 
Doherty Hall 2210 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY
Illustrated with slides and a movie 
showing Jupiters rotation
sponsored by
The American Astronomical Society 
Sigma Xi, Carnegie-Mellon University Chapter 
c CMU Astronomy Club
Professor Teske will be available to discuss Astronomy related 
matters Tuesday morning in the Physics Lounge, Science Hall 6325
Registration 12:30-3:30 Auditions begin at 1:00
Morgantown, WV Wed., Feb. 11 
WEST VIRGINIA UNIVERSITY 
Creative Arts Center - Concert Theatre
Pittsburgh, PA Thurs., Feb. 12 
CARNEGIE-MELLON UNIVERSITY 
Skibo Student Union - Rms. 11 & 12
Akron, OH Fri., Feb. 13
UNIVERSITY OF AKRON
E. J. Thomas Performing Arts Hall
Oberlin, OH Tues., Feb. 17 
OBERLIN COLLEGE 
Wilder Hall - Main Lounge
Also at Cedar Point Jan. 31 & Feb. 14
TECHNICIANS ,
Please send resumes by Feb. 1
For other audition 
sites and further information contact:LIVE SHOWS
Cedar Point, Sandusky, OH 44870 (419) 626-0830
CEIAR POINT

---------------------------------------------------

A
One of the most popular words of the 80s so 
far has been alienation. If you have ever felt 
like bashing in the face of a vending machine 
because it has stolen your money, if you have 
ever wanted to send a hammer crashing into 
the Mellon Banking Machine because once 
again it is out of order, if you have ever felt so 
intimidated and frustrated at a computer ter
minal that you wished a bomb were handy to 
blow it to shreds, then you have experienced 
alienation.
Doubtless, students at CMU are not the only 
ones to experience these feelings, but somehow 
alienation and its effects are more pronounced 
at CMU than in the outside world or at most 
other universities. Students are not only alie
nated from the university and its separate col
leges, but also from each other. The reasons for 
this exaggerated alienation are too many and 
too complicated to discuss fully. It is some
thing which most students sense the moment 
they set foot on campus. It is part of what 
causes people to say that CMU is a unique 
experience, not a normal college experience. It 
is also what causes or stems from the apparent 
apathy, selfishness, hostility, and short
sightedness of many students.
Although the deeper roots of alienation are 
too far back to retrace, the most obvious insti
gator of this trend at CMU is technology and 
its engineers. The hostility which exists 
between the humanities/arts group and the 
engineering group is an important sign of
what could develop with equal intensity in the 
outside world. The strife involves a vital ques
tioning of whether or not humanities/arts are 
still valid studies, or if it is time to lay these 
fossils to rest. The engineers argument that 
the humanities/arts no longer serve as a func
tion in society, or even that the function is 
undeniably less important than the propaga
tion of technology causes not only alienation 
but also defensiveness and hostiliity on the 
part of the humanities/arts group.
Although many students in H&SS and Fine 
Arts resent the superior treatment and attitude 
of CIT and Robotics, they do not realize the 
real need to vehemently question technology , 
as technology is already questioning the valid
ity of the humanities and the arts. It is time to 
think about whether or not technology can 
improve the quality of lives in all areas, or if its 
use should be restricted to improving certain 
areas only. Since this questioning is tradition
ally the job of the humanities and arts disci
plines, and because the outcome of 
technological advances directly affects these 
disciplines, we should begin to discern the pros 
and cons of the technological trend and 
whether or not this trend will actually result in 
what is best for our society. Although these 
judgments are based on constantly changing 
values, few people would argue that a good 
goal to aim for is happiness and freedom. The 
question to be answered is whether or not tech
nology can fulfill these goals.
We am already see that some results of tech
nology are undesirable. The alienation and 
frustration which pervades the atmosphere at 
CMU cannot be thought to improve the qual
ity of our lives; if anything, this aspect of tech
nology is a negative one. The trouble is that 
the humanities and arts are not questioning; or 
if they are, it is not loud enough. Fear of 
change is not the problem; something should 
not be preserved just for traditions sake. Con
trol is the problem, and it is a matter of who 
has control of technology, so that it produces 
in the best interests of our society.
As it stands now, technology is in the hands 
of big business, the government, and techno
crats. These groups are all motivated by either 
profit or something nebulous called pro
gress. We are in the midst of a trend whose 
theme is technology7 for technology s sake.
Sitting back and letting the tide of technol
ogy rush is not only a passive position, but a 
potentially harmful one. It is the responsibility 
of the humanities to get involved in the direc
tion of technology s progress.
Lynn Epstein
Authors note: As you have probably noticed, 
this argument is distinctly one-sided. DOSS
IER would love to hear from the opponents, as 
well as supporters, of this view.

---------------------------------------------------

THE LOST WEEKEND 
OF 
BEAUX ARTS
by Richard Gorelick
One of the more ironically familiar 
disturbing scenes of modern America 
is the mass-murderers neighbor swear
ing into a television camera that the 
man who put a family of sixteen 
through a Cuisinart was one of the 
"quietist, most polite men youd ever 
wanta meet. He is our cultures proto
type of the man forced into submission 
by a confusing society, whos seething 
with rage and approaching the brink, 
explodes in a frenzy of uncontrollable 
mania; a mania reminiscent of the 
Beaux Arts Ball.
On Beaux Arts Ball Night, men and 
women, students of the College of Fine 
Arts array themselves in outlandish, gar
ish costumes that have been in prepara
tion for weeks; they dance with wild 
abandon with stangers, casual friends 
and those of their own gender; they 
indulge themselves in monstrous pro
portions of drugs and alcohol for which 
they have sacrificed lifes basic animal 
comforts to afford and they engage in 
indifferent, nameless sex with others 
who are in their condition.
The analogy, however, ends here, 
because on the day after the ball, no 
artists neighbors will swear that they 
were some of the quietest, most polite 
people youd ever wanta meet.
On ei>ery Friday Night, men and 
women students of the College of Fine 
Arts array themselves in outlandish, gar
ish costumes that have been in prepara
tion for weeks; they dance with wild 
abandon with strangers, casual friends 
and those of their own gender; they 
indulge themselves in monstrous pro
portions of drugs and alcohol for which 
they have sacrificed lifes basic animal 
comforts to afford and they engage in 
indifferent, nameless sex with others 
who are in their own condition.
Beaux Arts Ball merely makes the 
whole business publishable.
And it has been that way for 66 years, 
since the first Beaux Arts Ball in 1915. 
There was a Roman theme that night, 
the original toga party. The ball was 
introduced to Carnegie Tech by Henry 
Hombostel, architect of university 
buildings and member of the first 
faculty. It caught on.
In 1916, The College of Fine Arts was 
transformed into the Court of Charlamagne; 1920 was the Peacock Ball and 
1925 was One Arabian Night. Beaux 
Arts Ball continued almost annually 
until 1939, when the event was shelved 
until genuine interest reappeared, or 
until Uncle Sams boys came sailing 
home from the tom battlefields of
Europe and the bloody seas of the 
Orient, whichever came first.
And then, one of those very special 
years rolled over on the calendar -1946. 
Movie-goers were going to movies like 
T he Bells of St. Marys with Ingrid Berg
man and The Lost Weekend with Ray 
Milland in the Forties version of a bad 
acid trip. It was a time of post-war recon
version: (tenants) were moving out of 
frat houses to make room for the return
ing vets, who were not only out of the 
academic swing, but alien to new social 
customs as well.
The fruits and vegetables controv
ersy of that year, the letter to the editor 
that excited more opinion, positive and 
negative, than any other, was from two 
veterans, James Marr, an infantry vete
ran of the European campaign and Vin
cent J. Catullo, an air force veteran. 
Marr writes:
It is disgusting to return and be con
fronted with the present style of dress of 
the college co-ed. One of the favorite 
styles seems to be the wearing of a pair of 
tom grease-spattered, paint smeared 
jeans and a cut-off mens shirt in the 
same condition. Most of these clothes 
are in such poor condition that even a 
self respecting laborer wouldnt be seen 
in them.
Catullo has a different peeve:
As a veteran of this war I have seen 
many things, some strange, some cur
ious and some revolting. But one sight 
that seems to combine all three of these 
phases is the cigarette-smoking girls 
that one encounters everywhere... They 
are truly a strange sight and a revolting 
one at that.
A fellow who has seen the war at first 
hand isnt easily impressed by an imma
ture girl trying to be mannish.
Lest you are led to believe that 1946 
occured sometime in the Middle Ages, 
examine these responses.
From Sheila Berger:
Let us look at the woman as a 
human being-she is one you know. 
The sole purpose of a female human 
being is not to serve as a setting for the 
male human being. . . Men have other 
ambitions, desires, and purposes in life. 
Why do men refuse to see that women 
do too? Were working hard; weve 
become more interested in living wisely 
and better able to do than our unemancipated sisters.
From A Tech Coed:
To begin with, Carnegie Tech is, 
fortunately, or unfortunately divided 
into four parts--with too little commun
ication between the divisions. Misun
derstandings are rampant, one of the 
most common being. . . the bewilder
ment concerning the shirt-and-denim 
uniforms of the Art School Coed. 
Spring Carnival and Scotch and Soda 
returned in 1946 as did (ta dah) Beaux 
46 inscribed as a message. Ticket sales 
started slowly due to the out-of-thisworld cost ($3.50), but slowly caught 
on until it evolved into what was to 
become Carnegie-Mellons most public
ized event of all time.
Prizes were awarded for the best cos
tume. The judges were Dean Yon, Dean 
Warden, Director Johnstone, Maurice 
Spitalny (the bandleader) and Jessie the 
janitor. First prize was awarded to the 
Junior Illustrators for their representa
tion of a surrealistic caterpillar. Leading 
the caterpillar on a string was Mr. Readio, head of the department. Head bug 
was Mary Lou Snedden. The prize was a 
ceramic vase by Virgil Cantini.
Second prize went to Irene Waichler 
and Margie Schroeder for representing a 
split personality or double life or 
whatever.
A mural depicting two huge heads 
covered the whole left wall of the room. 
Outside on the steps sat a lady taking a 
bath midst egg shells painted like eye
balls (Edith?)
Some of the people came as the mak
ings of a Lost Weekend. One girl was a 
huge sloe gin fizz. Unfortunately the fizz 
was made of cellophane.
Yepper, 1946. Hubba-Hubba.
1979 was the next very special year to 
roll around on the calendar. It had been 
over ten years since the last Beaux Arts
Ball. While 1946 was a year for celebra
tion and an attempt to return to a past 
time of glory, 1979 was a time of 
National Malaise and everybody was 
aching to return to any time that was 
more lively than the one they were 
enduring.
The theme for Beaux Arts 1979 was 
Black and White, which all but a few 
people took absolutely literally. There is 
still a small faction on campus that 
insists that Black and White implied 
contrasts or opposites and not merely 
colors. One group of students came to 
the ball dressed as a complete chess set 
and someone else arrived in a box of 
generic macaroni and cheese.
There was a stunning black and 
white Carmen Miranda and an art stu
dent, clad only in a diaper, who crawled 
on the floor of the College of Fine Arts 
the entire evening. An English student 
posed as an umbrella.
Hundreds of black and white ballons 
crowded the ceiling of the College of 
Fine Arts and masqueraders danced in 
the outcoves where the statues normally 
reside. It was the night of the living 
dead. The last lost weekend of the 
Seventies.
This years ball chairmen hope that 
the euphoria of the 1979 Ball will carry 
over into Le Bal Fantasie. Already, plans 
are being finalized to transform The 
College of Fine Arts into a world of 
complete fantasy. Tickets are now $15, 
which to the person writing the Beaux 
Arts article in 1994, will seem a tiny sum 
indeed.
Maybe you will be the Phantom of the 
Ball.

---------------------------------------------------

by Joe Ihnat
Unless you have been in a coma for the last 
seven years, you know that this country (and 
most of the world, for that matter) is in the 
throes of an "energy crisis". While there is 
some debate as to the seriousness of this 
"crisis," it is generally agreed that there is, to 
some extent, an energy shortage.
Now that people are beginning to realize that 
there exists a problem which will affect them 
personally, the more creative among us are 
beginning to devise some ingenious methods 
for relieving this problem. The newspapers and 
new magazines have been brimming with such 
ideas over the past months; much research is 
being done to try to find solutions to this 
complex problem.
Much of this research has been directed 
towards the area of synthetic fuels, or synfuels. 
A $20 billion federal program was enacted this 
past June to help speed production of synthetic 
crude oil from coal, shale oil and tar sands. A 
pilot plant which converts coal into a synthetic 
fuel has been in operation in Texas for nearly a 
year. More emphasis is being placed on coal, as 
well as oil shale and tar sands, as a means of 
lessening this country's dependence on foreign 
petroleum.
Another field of which has received much 
attention as of late is that of fusion research. 
Last September, Congress appropriated $20 
billion for use in magnetic-fusion research. 
This shows that the government is committed
to developing a commercial fusion power 
reactor. Fusion energy looks promising 
because it derives its fuel from water, and we 
certainly have an abundant supply of that. 
Another advantage of fusion power is that 
water is virtually the only waste product 
produced during the reaction. Regarding 
radiation, it is relatively safe.
Dangers of radiation have given nuclear 
fission reactors a bad image, a la Three Mile 
Island (TMI). The accident at TMI, which 
happened nearly two years ago, has made 
nuclear power the object of a heated debate. 
Although nuclear power plants have been 
operating safely for many years, this one 
accident will take many years and billions of 
dollars to correct. Who is to shoulder the 
financial responsibilities of this accident is still 
being decided in the courts.
While pointing out the potential risks of 
nuclear power, more attention is being given to 
solar power. Advocates tout solar energy as an 
inexhaustible energy resource, with virtually 
no dangers since the source is conveniently 
placed 150 million kilometers away.
One area of solar energy which is making 
steady progress is that of photovoltaics (or 
"solar cells"). These solar cells directly convert 
sunlight into electricity. While not yet costeffective with other forms of electric power 
generation, their costs are nonetheless 
decreasing; certain cells have achieved an 
efficiency of 10 percent this past year. As their 
efficiency increases, the cost of generating 
power from photovoltaic cells will decrease.
Gasohol is another energy item which has 
been in the headlines lately. Gasohol is a 
mixture of 90% gasoline and 10% ethyl alcohol 
(ethanol). By adding ethanol to gasoline, it will 
help to stretch our supply of gas. Ethanol may 
also be used alone as a fuel. Research is being 
done to modify engines to burn straight 
ethanol, since it burns differently than 
gasoline.
The generation of ethanol has received much 
attention. Ethanol is fermented from materials 
such as sugar cane, corn and sugar beets. 
Enzymes (yeast), which turn the sugars in 
these materials into alcohol, are added. The 
ethanol is then distilled out. Certain enzymes 
are more efficient than others; enzymes which 
are very effective at this job were recently 
found to exist in the hot springs of Yellowstone 
National Park.
In the search for alternative energy sources, 
it almost seems as if no stone has remained 
unturned. There have been some fairly un
usual sources discovered lately. In Brazil, there 
is a certain tree whose sap is pure diesel fuel. 
This sap, directly out of the tree, will power a 
car. Another relatively unusual source is 
cattails, that well-known marsh plant. They 
have been found to have similar combustion 
properties as coal. They can also be fermented 
to produce ethanol.
No single energy source mentioned to date is 
considered to be a panacea. Although each has 
its merits, each also has its drawbacks. Coal is 
abundant, but methods will have to be 
discovered to make it more clean-burning. 
Nuclear fusion sounds promising, but it is 
considered to be 20 years away from 
commercial reality. Nuclear fission is being 
used throughout the world, but certain 
segments of society are beginning to question 
its safety, as well as the problem of the 
dangerous waste products it produces. Solar 
energy will have to become more cost 
competitive to become a viable energy 
resource. With gasohol, there is a question of 
whether we should use our croplands to 
produce food or fuel.
Even though no single energy source will 
relieve our troubles, each must be wisely 
developed to its fullest potential so that we may 
have many diversified sources at our disposal, 
and we are not dependent upon one main 
source, as we are now with petroleum. Yes, 
that even includes developing cattails and 
diesel trees.

---------------------------------------------------

6
True Merit Wherever Found
by Paul Fisher. 
Author's note; The names of two brothers have been changed: Bud Stone and Robert OMalley
In the far stall of the mens room on the second floor of 
Hunt Library, a nameless senior in an impromptu last will 
and testament scrawled on the left wall, (sitting position) 
fTo CMU Fraternities: I leave a brick wall to help you with 
your real problem: Insecurity. On the opposite wall an un
known pollster listed his preference of eleven of CarngieMellon Universitys twelve national fraternities: Pika, SAE, 
ATO, Beta, Kappa Sigma, Phi Kap, ZBT, DTD, Sigma Nu, 
Theta Xi, and Pi Lam. Hie accompanying comment with ar
row pointed to the list declared, 'This is exactly the listing 
the top shits in a cesspool. Despite such glowing references, 
the unanimously red-bricked CMU fraternities did very well 
in the 1980 Fall rush according to the October 14 Tartan.
GREEKS GAIN 280 PLEDGES 
This year the Greeks at CMU enjoyed 
one of their most successful rush periods 
ever, gaining a total of 280 
u ndergraduates.
Friday night was fraternity pledge 
night and 233 men joined one of the 
twelve national fraternities on campus.
DU and ZBT led with 30 pledges each 
Beta and Kappa Sig tied with 28, fol
lowed by Theta Xis22. Pika, D TD, and 
Phi Kap were close behind with 19, 18, 
and 17 pledges respectively. SAE ranked 
ninth with 13 new members, trailed by 
Sigma Nu with 12. A TO and Pi Lam 
followed with eight members each.
The eight pledges garnered by Alpha Tau Omega 
were probably at least vaguely aware of the name they 
had staked their Carnegie-Mellon social life behind. 
During rush they had met brothers who half kept in 
mind Treasurer Brian Renners active meeting plea of, 
"Cmon, lets not be assholes, as well as maintaining 
the keen wit and rigidly reserved madness they valued so 
highly.
Pledges are essential to perpetuating achapters exist
ence, and at ATO more pledges mean less work sessions 
for the brothers as well as more money for parties. It is 
these uncontestable facts that move many of the ATOs 
to temper their behavior for four weeks. Good natured 
quips often replace searing mother jokes. The changes 
are subtle, as the brothers detest overwhelmingfreshmen 
with barrages of sweet talk or ass kissing. No, SAE and 
Beta are considered the undisputed champions of that. 
Plastic images are worse than any image conjured up by 
a gossip-hungry campus, and a common line snarled to 
someone acting that way is "You shoulda joined up the 
street.
On Friday, October 10, Kenny McCall, who is twentyone, co-social chairman, and the only black brother, 
made a run up to the Squirrel Hill State Store with 
Rusty Kennington and John Kenny in Johns yellow 
Toyota.
Drunk, Kenny can be mean and crazy. He once 
greeted a newly arrived high school sleeping bagger by 
throwing his luggage at him, shouting that the school
bag afire on the porch wall. Sober, he is a picture of 
joviality and appears almost shy. Right outside the 
liquor store a young man of about twenty, with greasy 
matted hair, clothes to match and meek as could be, 
asked Kenny if he would buy him a fifth of gin. "Ah, 
...ah...see I have to buy an awful lot...I dont know he 
muttered and walked into the store.
"Yes, Id like three half gallons of Bankers Club.
"Have any ID? the man asked.
"Ah, yes I do. Kenny brought his dog-eared wallet 
out like a battered deck of cards. "Heres my Ohio 
drivers license and school ID.
. As the man walked back through the distilled cata
combs looking for Bankers Club, Kenny took note of 
Rustys request for rum and mine for Jim Beam. When 
the man returned, Kenny asked for our stuff and paid the 
man with the dollar bills we were shoveling at him.
Bankers Club, or Monogram whiskey, is the only 
whiskey bought for pledge and initiation nights. 
Bankers Club, costing $10.31 a half gallon, is not only 
economical but more importantly, is "rotgut. Save the 
Seagrams for the for mals; on nights like these, the diges
tive disruption potential is of paramount importance. 
The more pledges vomiting, the better.
Speculation ran high back at the house concerning 
how many freshmen would actually pledge. No one 
would know until seven oclock when all pledges were 
to be at the house. One of the brothers who rushed the 
hardest, President Perry Colosimo, had no idea himself. 
"We could get anywhere from ten to thirty. I really have 
no idea. I talked to a lot of the guys who everyone said 
was set on Beta. I talked to every one of them, and when I 
was done, I saw a lot of doubting looks. I also told them 
even if they pledged somewhere else, to come and tell me 
about it as a friend, and I think they will.
By late afternoon, all the brothers who were around 
and who didnt have to play football the next day were 
drinking heavily. Details and memory become a bit 
blurred at this point. Here and there, a pledge would 
show up and be greeted with a handshake, slap on the 
back, or cup of beer. Some brothers lounged around the 
TV, others were downstairs drinking, and a few worked 
in their rooms. It almost seemed too laid back. The 
house was fragmented and becoming increasingly disor
iented as the beer kept flowing. The magic moment, a 
ham buffet at seven, was eaten by everyone present 
anywhere from five-thirty to eight. By seven though, 
eight pledges were present, and the brothers did their 
best to conceal their disappointment in front of them. 
Word about Beta was they had gotten thirty. One silver 
lining was that of the eight, all were liked and consi
dered good guys, so the theme slowly reverted to "qual
ity not quantity.
This was especially true during the barsidechugging 
ceremony. Every pledge was twice encircled by his 
brethren-to-be and fellow pledges screaming "Rah! 
Rah! Rega, Alpha Tau Omega! Hip Hurrah! Hip Hur
rah! Three Cheers for Alpha Tau! A...T...0! Most of 
the twenty or so brothers present did shots too, then the 
evening was officially capped off by John Kenny lead
ing the pledges to the basements of the other fraternities 
#(as well as the sororities) to shout the chant and refill the 
beers.
Pledge night, totally devoid thus far of the spectacular 
occurence, of the euphoria of a successful rush,and of 
pledge vomit, was depressing if not boring. Going 
through the motions was over however, and ATO was 
about to explode.
Otis Allan Glazebrook was a young man from Virgi
nia who fought for the South in the Civil War. After
wards, he wanted to form a "secret society among his 
fellow confederate veterans at Virginia Military Insti
tute. His primary objectives were to form ties of brother
hood between themselves and their former nothern 
adversaries as well as to seek permanent peace and ever
lasting brotherhood in the entire nation. On September 
11th, 1865, Glazebrook and two friends, Alfred Marshall 
and Erskine Mayo Ross, signed the constitution of 
Alpha Tau Omega that Glazebrook had designed. ATO 
thus became the first fraternity established after the Civil 
War.
The founders also sought to separate their fraternity 
in four important ways. First, it was not founded in 
oppposition or in strict imitation of the others. 
Secondly, it was to be national, even international, in 
scope. Third, the goal of peace and brotherhood for all 
mankind was a novel, if not noble, founding principle. 
And fourth, it incorporated Christianity as an integral 
part of its teachings, as Glazebrook was a devout Episco
palian who eventually entered the ministry.
Only a few years later, the fraternity was dying 
through lack of communication, leadership, and 
extreme apathy. To the rescue came Joseph R. Ander
son, also a VMI initiate. Anderson pieced together the 
status of all the chartered chapters and pushed the 
reforms needed to reorganize ATO. At the time, only 
two chapters remained in existence. Referred to as the 
"second founder, Anderson recommended that new 
chapters could only be started on strong, expanding 
campuses, preferably in the North or West. A periodical 
must be started to bridge the communication gap 
between chapters. Also, the Constitution should be 
revised and distributed throughout along the codifica
tion of the laws. Despite further growing pains through 
the years, ATO was here to stay thanks to Anderson.
Carnegie-Mellons Delta Pi chapter was the first social 
fraternity founded onthethen Carnegie Tech campus in 
1923. Two local fraternities, Xi Sigma Upsilon and 
Delta Epsilon Omega, merged into the Delta Xi local, 
which eventually applied for an ATO charter which 
was granted on March 11th, 1923 and marked the begin
ning of Delta Pi, ATOs first Pittsburgh chapter. The 
current house, built for the 1957-58 academic year, is 
located on the corner of Forbes and Morewood Avenues.
One of the main similarities of CMU ATOssince its 
beginning here has been an emphasis on sports. The 
ATO PALM, (Andersons quarterly brainchild) entries 
for Carnegie Tech overflow with athletic achievements 
from water polo to golf to varsity football aftd buggy 
supremacy. The "jock frat as it is often called today, 
was probably called something similar in every decade 
of its existence.

---------------------------------------------------

7
THE A TO CREED 
To bind men together in a brotherhood 
based upon eternal and immutable 
principles, with a bond as strong as 
right itself and as lasting as humanity; 
to know no north, no south, no east, no 
west, but to know man as man, to teach 
that true men the world over should 
stand together and contend for supre
macy of good over evil; to teach, not 
politics, but morals; to foster, not parti
sanship, but the recognition of true 
merit wherever found; to have no nar
rower limits within which to work 
together for the elevation of man than 
the outlines of the world; these were the 
thoughts and hopes uppermost in the 
minds of the founders of the Alpha Tau 
Omega fraternity.
Ottis Allan Glazebrook 1880 
ATO PROPYLON
By eleven oclock, the Beta pledges were performing 
their pledge night ritual of dashing down the street and 
depositing their empty beer cup in the U.S. mailbox in 
front of ATO, and sprinting back to run across a soaped 
floor to chug another to the tick of a stopwatch. Without 
provocation, house manager Mike Zellhart turned on 
he hose outside and began squirting each new Beta on 
is trip back. Jim Oberkircher threw a gallon.of milk at 
nother, and flung a chair at an SAE pledge who 
houted "fuck you in the general direction of the porch. 
'Obie was the loser though. "I got more milk on 
|myselfthan on him, he ruefully commented. Obie is an 
nteresting story, he works for campus security, but on 
lights like this, its hard to tell.
Back inside, Jim Flynn "had a great time. First, a 
late of macaroni salad flew across the living room in 
he direction of recently graduated Frank Pugliano, who 
as no doubt, instigating this in some fashion. If he 
oes nothing for the rest of his life, Pug will always be 
ailed in the reminiscent annals of ATO for driving his 
averick through the entire length of the cut with no 
lothes on and being apprehended just as he pulled on 
) Forbes Avenue in the summer of 1979. This time 
though, he seemed delighted to let Jimmy go wild and 
just follow the action. Jim is about six feet tall and two 
Jpundred thirty pounds of grizzly bear. Eventually, Pug 
jouldnt resist and incited Jimmy further. StandingS
iind the double doors leading onto the front stairwell 
ding, Pug was opening one of the doors quickly and 
:king his tongue out and gurgling "Blah Blah Blah 
fim responded by throwing more plates and almost a 
sen glasses at the door. Pug was quicker though, and 
irays managed to shut the door just in time as glass 
apnel flew everywhere.
5issed off, ATOs Genghis Khan went back to the 
litchen for a fire extinguisher. The last time Jim was 
issed off, he rolleu over to the edge of his bed, grabbed 
In ax on the floor and threw it at John Kenny, who had 
woken him up. Fortunately, the ax missed the doorway 
and struck the wall. Jim meanwhile, rolled over and 
rent back to sleep. As JoeSchinosisat innocently eating 
a salad in the kitchen, Jimmy proceeded to powderize 
the salad as well as most of Joe. Pug meanwhile, was 
Billowing Jimmy. This was prime entertainment not to 
Be missed at any cost. The next target was the piano, 
Bicated in the corner of the living room. W ith a thud of 
wood crashing into a radiator, Jim tipped it over and 
Bien proceeded into the hallway, grabbing John KenBys ten speed bike and heaving it down the stairs. After 
Bne more fire extinguisher, Jim was done for the night 
Bnd spent the rest of the night playing peacemaker in 
Bopping would-be fights.
/ think it is obvious how much this
Fraternity
has meant to me. When you've got Brothers
like
this, you've got friends!
Mark F. Winkle man Kansas '80 
1980 Thomas Arkle Clark Award Winner 
(Highest undergraduate award in Alpha 
Tau Omega)
The A TO PALM, September 1980
Brothers in the house? I treat them like 
wood
work, when I walk in a room, they're there 
but
you just don't notice.
James M. FLynn
I hate the kid. And I'm going to make it so 
miserable for him he'll WANT to 
deactivate.
Nameless ATO referring to Rich Andros 
Decemberr, 1979
Friday night was winding down whenKenny McCall 
attempted to attack Warner Hall with a chair. "Fuck this 
place, fuck this place he kept snorting. All of a sudden, 
he took off across Forbes with the infamous blue chair 
that usually sits astride the porch wall. Zellhart and Obie 
took off after him and caught up to him behind the 
bushes facing Forbes. "Zellmo reached him first and 
never doing anything halfway, tackled Kenny and 
shouted "Cmon! Were goin back to the house. Whatsa 
matter Soupbone? As Zellmo let Kenny up, he went for 
the chair again but Obie had two hands on it and the 
chair was going nowhere. "Settle down Kenny. Obie 
said calmly as they both led the reluctant "Bone back to 
the porch. The next day, Kenny just shook his head and 
said "I just wanted to attack the system Pauly.
Corporal Guy Pollice is twenty six, with wavy brown 
hair, friendly brown eyes and a thick, athletic build. A 
Central Catholic grad, hes been with CMU campus 
security for a year and a half. On duty pledge night, he 
was sipping a beer underthetree between SAE and ATO 
chatting with Dale West and several others. "Yeah, we 
have to control the situation, but there?s no problem. Its 
a typical pledge night, everyones drunk and running 
around yelling and throwing beer on each other. Were 
here just so nobody gets hurt...Id say our biggest prob
lem is a few kids drink too much and pass out. 
Perhaps the most qualified in-house behavioral ana
lyst is Adolph Jan Gribowicz. "Grubo graduated in 
December of 1979 with a well-earned graphic communi
cation degree and now works for Harris Company in 
New York City. What makes Grubo unique is that it 
took him six and a half years to graduate. Coming from 
a bad home environment and having to put himself 
through school, he took over a year off in the midst of his 
education to work in order to stay in school. Since 1974 
hes endured more abuse than any four year man 
around; but much of it was deserved for the brother who 
bought fine wines, had an account at a local florist, wore
cheap suits constantly and smoked a pipe."This place is 
the best thing that ever happened to me, he said 
seriously, pointing to the house with his unlit pipe.
"It was harder to get in then, you had to know your 
information...Sung Lee for instance, was initiated with
out knowing half the brothers in the house...Something 
else is that the traditions are slowly dying. We won 
buggy for ten or twelve years straight once, now you just 
dont see the interest. Same with Greek Sing, we used to 
be good...now its just a jag, just like everything else. But 
the people...ATO has the most diverse array of people 
youre going to find, and thats its greatest virtue...You 
have Bruce Witherell, whose father is a millionaire...you 
have guys with unemployed fathers who are scraping 
the barrel just to get by...youve had an entire line of 
brothers through here, the Wests, who will always think 
a certain way...sick people from the old school like 
Flynn...people who are unexplained, like Denny...or 
how about the country boys like Zellmo and Creech?...Then theres Perry! whose enigmatic to me to this 
day. You NEVER know what hes going to do... Thats 
why we have the people he added softly. "SAE will 
check your background and see how much your father 
makes, whether youll fit the mold or not... Here, its all 
what you are. Ill be back here in five years, ten years, and 
I wont know a goddamn soul, but every chancel get Im 
going to put a little back of what its given me.
I may not be a brother but I'll 
be the first fucking one to de
fend this place and the people in it.
Terence Sweeney, Civ. E. '82
(After ivarding off an irate motorist swing
ing a four foot wooden pole with a kitchen 
chair since splintered to pieces. The motor
ist's car had been struck with an object 
thrown from the porch, and the man ivas 
soon subdued by Scott West.) Spring 1980
Saturday night began with several of the brothers 
watching porno movies on a raised white laminated 
table on the porch as an act of protest against the recently 
passed state porn crackdown laws. Easily visible from 
Forbes Avenue and the neighboring portion of the cut, 
the movies were cut short by the arrival of security chief 
Armand Castrelli and Corporal Guy Pollice, on their 
way home from work, they had caught an eyeful at the 
red light. "What the hell are you guys doin now? Guy 
Pollice just shook his head as Kenny ran inside with the 
projector. As Corporal Pollice well knows, its another 
Saturday night.

---------------------------------------------------

8
~W ,
ENOS
MAUREEN BRENNAN
Rumor has it hes won awards and grants to 
dig around in the ancient ruins of Greece. Some
thing to do with rhetoric, students say, but hes 
a great guy. He must be Greek or something. 
Cant imagine why hes so into that stuff.
There are many disciplines that study how 
language functions; rhetoric is one of the oldest.
I sat down with a cup of coffee and the bor
rowed Panasonic tape recorder and rewound the 
interview. Turned out the rumors were true. Not 
only does he do research in Greece, run mara
thons and play tennis, but he also has a complete 
knowledge of ancient Greek and ancient Latin  
different languages entirely from modem Greek 
and Latin.
Maureen: You look tired.
A smile emerges from behind the black beard, 
and twinkles from beyond the small wire 
spectacles.
Rich Enos: The alarm rang at 5 o'clock this 
morning.
Only 33, he does look Greek, but is actually of a 
Portuguese and Italian background.
A miniature bronze Thinker sits in front of 
him on the desk  the award that changes hands 
between authors of the best papers in his rhetoric
classes. It sits awaiting its first owner of the 81 
semester.
The Thinker is part of the tradition of Enos 
that started IVQ years ago at The University of 
Michigan, and at Camegie-Mellon in the fall of 
1979. I was lucky enough to be in his first class at 
CMU. I doubt very much if he was as impressed 
with us as we were of him. What we could never 
figure out though, was how he could get so 
excited about rhetoric, and what in the world 
could have prompted him to leave The Univ. of 
Michigan to live alone in Pittsburgh for a year 
while his wife finished her third year of law 
school?
Enos: In the field of English, Richard Young, 
head of the English Department, is one of the two 
or three most outstanding experts of rhetoric 
there is. If it was any one thing, I came to work 
with him. CMU is developing into one of the 
finest rhetoric programs in the nation.
There are many areas of rhetoric one can study, 
for example a specific person like Aristotle, or the 
various theories of how language functions. The 
latter is what all writing majors take as Expo II.
At CMU, there are several English professors 
who are involved in rhetoric: David Kaufer is 
doing research on building theories of rhetoric, 
particularly dealing with irony; Sandra Oster is a 
linguist trained in rhetoric; Lois Fowler is work
ing on curriculum design, that is how to go 
about teaching rhetoric and developing writing 
programs; John Wands is investigating the rela
tionship of Renaissance literature and rhetoric; 
and Erwin Steinberg, Head of the Communica
tion Design Center, is working on document 
design with organizations such as the U.S. 
government, which wishes to improve its 
communication.
Interdepartmental research also is evident in 
rhetoric. Linda Fowler of the English Depart
ment and John Hayes of the Psychology' Depart
ment lead the nation in the study of the cognitive 
processes of writing, which is how we think 
about writing and how we structure it. Rich Enos 
is also interested in these processes, in the rela
tionship between thinking and language, but 
emphasizes the historical development of cogni
tive processes.
While in college Enos became interested in 
ancient theories of rhetoric and discourse, and 
while on a government fellowship he got his 
Ph.D. in rhetorical theory with an emphasis in 
classical rhetoric. According to Enos knowledge, 
the following summer he became the first person 
who was a non-classics major to be admitted to 
the American School of Classical Studies in 
Athfens with the intent of studying rhetoric.
One might think that in the last 3000 years 
someone else would have had the same idea, but 
Enos is the only rhetorician he knows of who has 
studied ancient transcriptions to uncover the 
structuring of discourse. Presently, he is working 
on a book about how people develop systems of 
language, and how this influences their thought 
through time. It wasnt until the last 100 years, 
and in many cases 20-30 years, that most of the 
ancient inscriptions necessary have been 
excavated.
These inscriptions are right fron* antiquity. 
Theyve never been translated. They tell us 
directly how people wrote, how they thought 
about literature, how they viewed the role of lan
guage, and how they tried to communicate their 
ideas. A lot of Greek history has been rewritten by 
these sources.
From about the 12th to the8th century B.C. the 
Greeks seem to have lost all development in writ
ing. What really knocks me out is that we have no 
writing and no writing, and then all of a sudden 
we have The Illiad and The Odyssey. Name one 
piece of literature before The Iliad and The 
Odyssey. We know of none. But there must be 
some transmitted copies of what came in between 
buried in monastaries in Greece or unexcavated 
in the earth.
Enos received a grant from the Karl R. Wallace 
Memorial Award that has been supported by the 
University of Michigan and now by CMU. He is 
compiling a bibliography of sources for other 
researchers to find out what has really been done 
based on archaeological and epigraphical 
accounts. He originally found these sources 
through extensive research and a lot of field 
work, and has developed an ability to look at an 
inscription and instantly date it within 50 years.
One must have an incredible tolerance for frus
tration. You can spend an entire summer and 
find nothing or you can go to the first site and 
find enough for your entire life. My wife and I 
have done things like hike 9 miles one way in 90 
degree weather in Greece to find nothing but 
lizards and snakes.
Ive literally stood 7 feet above the ground with 
one foot on each of two marble pillars to read an 
inscriptionwith the risk of the entire 400 
pounds of rock falling on me. Id read out the 
inscriptions and my wife would write them 
down. Wed go to storehouses of Greek museums 
and find priceless documents stacked up with 
years and years of pigeon dung in between.
Enos visited one site of which there was no 
prior written history, and through inscriptions 
and present-day archaeological reports, he recon
structed the entire rhetorical history of a civic 
center that held theatrical, literary and oratorical 
contests which covered a span of about 500 yearsover twice the time the U.S. has been a nation.
One of the stones he studied listed all the ath
letes, events, and champions of one of the early 
Olympic-style games.
You examine the stones up and pretty soon 
they start talking to youWell, heres what we 
did. . . Some of them even speak in the first 
person.
Presently Enos is working on several projects 
besides his book. He and several graduate stu
dents are compiling a bibliography of heuristics 
used as a basis for generating funded research for 
the department. He was invited to speak at a 
conference on his research of rhetoric in March, is 
coordinating 3 panels for the American branch of 
the International Society for the History of Rhe
toric, is scheduled to present a paper here in 
Pittsburgh in April, and was recently invited to a 
Gulf Oil conference in New Orleans in May. As a 
representative of the Humanities, he is one of 12 
professors chosen from all over the U.S. to serve 
on Gulfs Faculty Advisory Board to investigate 
social problems which universities and Gulf Oil 
can work together on solving.
Maureen: How do you manage to do it all?
More smiles from behind the black beard and 
tiny spectacles.
Enos:I had 12 years of Catholic education by 
the Christian Brothers. It taught me tremendous 
discipline. I've never been afraid to work hard.
His enthusiasm was catching when I first met 
him a year and a half ago, but even after a course 
in rhetoric Im just now understanding what it 
can mean.
Rich Enos has won awards and grants to dig 
around in the ancient ruins of Greece. He is a 
great guy. And I cant imagine why hes the only 
rhetorician around who is into that stuff.

---------------------------------------------------

Glenda, at the Laundry, 
Falls in Love
Glenda transferred 
wash to dry, shedding 
socks, lone paper clip, no 
quarters, caught her 
sweater on the dryer 
door, thinking how in
elegant hoping handsome 
stranger resembles celebrity 
would not notice.
Dena Santoro

---------------------------------------------------

THE HOSPITALITY HOUSE
Carolyn Toth
It is June of 1976 and about seventy-eight 
degrees in the shade. The sun is hot, turning the 
leaves on the trees to a dusty green. But the 
breeze is refreshing. Steven has graduated from 
high school this past week. Consequently, we, 
that is, Steven, Jeannette, and myself, are taking 
a camping trp in the mountains as a celebration 
of sorts. We are on our way back from town. 
Jeanette had wanted to see the Indians. She is 
disappointed to find them brown, not red. 
"Eastern tribes are brown, Steven has 
explained. In fact, the one I spoke with is a 
Seminole from Dania, Florida. He plays a 
Cherokee till winter, when Florida becomes 
everyones vacation spot.
A lumber truck from Asheville streaks past us, 
its tail wind blasting the deer flies off of the Lazy 
Susans that lace the two-lane road. Around the 
next curve, we come in sight of a bedraggled 
shack, hung on the side of a ravine that follows 
the other side of the road. The two stacks holding
up its hind end could go at any time. There is a 
front porch on the plane, almost obliterated by 
rhododendron and berry bushes that cling to its 
frame. As we draw nearer, bright colors appear. It 
is a quilt that is hung over a rusty metal chair.
"Lets take a look, suggests Jeannette.
"Suppose whoever lives there doesnt what 
visitors, says Steven.
"They say mountain people are hospitable, 
says Jeannette.
"They also say mountain people shoot other 
people for trespassing, argues Steven.
"Then stay here. Ill be right back. Are you 
coming? she asks me.
I nod and follow her across the road. We find 
only a first step to the porch. The missing second 
and third result in Jeannettes climbing up on 
hands and knees. One loud leap onto the brittle 
planks and I am by her side. There is no front 
door, though a gnawed-on blanket is tied back to 
one side of the doorway. We cross over to the 
quilt. Jeannette reaches to toueh it just as a fat 
hound lunges from the doorway, tethered by a 
frayed rope that must be four inches thick. The 
dog stands between us and our escape route, not 
barking, but growling with yellow gums exposed.
"Oh God! Jeannette whispers.
We stand still, Steven picking grass across the 
road from us.
"Gretchen, whos there? asks a voice from 
inside. "We got company, girl?
The dog growls and sits on the threshold. A I 
woman appears on the porch. Looking seventy, I 
but perhaps forty-five, she holds her hip and 
smiles. One front tooth is gray and shorter than  
the other. Her left eye is crossed, a streak of white I 
running across the iris to the pupil. The skirt and j 
blouse dont match, although her sneakers match 1 
her hair ribbon. One shoe is tongueless and is 1 
laced with a strip of cloth that matches the front  
door blanket.
"Gretchen wont hurt nobody. Shes blind. 
Scares easy.
"We were admiring your quilt, I say. "Its j 
gorgeous. Did you make it? *
"Sure did. Got plenty more inside. Wanna 
come take a look?
Jeannette stares at the woman, then at the dog. 
She begins to speak.
"Wed be happy to, I say. "Jeannette, call 
Steven over. "You dont mind our friend coming, 
do you? I ask the woman.
"Lands sake, no, she chuckles.
The woman and I step inside while Jeannette 
waits for Steven. Gretchen sniffs my ankles as I i* 
pass. The smell reminds me of the alley behind 
my school; the one that houses the Dempsey 
Dumpster. A green imitation marble terrazo tile 
apparently covered the floor at one time. Dark 
brown now outlines the mosaic design of tile 
fragments, the entire floor covered in a dingy film 
of filth.
Steven and Jeannette come in. Steven holds his $ 
hands behind him, taking bowing steps, as if \ 
embarrassed by the ugliness he sees. He looks up | 
from the floor as the woman extends her hand. 
"My names Millie, she says.
Steven lightly shakes her hand. "Im Steven.
He checks around for Jeannette. She is shuffling 
uncomfortably near the front entrance. "This is 
Phoebe, Steven continues. I smile. "And this is 
Jeannette. Jeannette nods politely, but remains 
in her corner.
ns

---------------------------------------------------

i
i
"Now, come on. No need to be bashful around 
he likes of me. Millie goes to Jeannette and hugs 
Bier around the shoulders. Jeannette stiffens and 
Slashes a shaky smile. One might have thought 
Millie was holding a gun to her rib cage. Millie 
feleases her hold on Jeannette. She steps back 
ifrom the three of us, tipping her head and staring 
flvith a hand on her chin, as if admiring a Matisse 
strikes me that Matisse would be a 
her.
to have you all take a seat. Millie 
motions to her sofa. We sit on ita bed covered by 
one of her quilts. It reeks of mange and dog hair 
dings to my sweaty palm as I lean on one arm.
I "Its not often folks stop in. Mainly trucks on this 
Back road.
I "Could we see your other quilts? Jeannette asks 
nervously.
"Got no more. Just remembered that my cousin 
Ibok the last one. Ive got a garden, though.
I She stands and wags a finger for us to follow. She 
opens the back screen door and points to a small plot 
ol red clay far down the ravine.
"I cant see anything, says Steven.
I "Just planted it, she says.
1 Millie swings down the path, grabbing birch trunks 
r balance. She stands sideways, digging the heel of 
er right sneaker into the spongy ground. Her left 
ot drags behind her, steering and braking her steep 
descent. We stand above, watching her bend and dig 
ll one corner of the so-called garden.
I think we should go, says Jeannette.
"Whats bugging you? Steven asks.
I "Nothing. She wont look at either of us. "Its 
jist all so depressing.
I "Whats so bad? I ask.
I Steven is irate. "She seems to like it, he 
mments.
Well, I dont. Jeannette peers down the ravine.
 think living out here, alone like this, makes her 
azy  Jeanette retreats* into tiie house.
I think shes the strange one, says Steven.
I Millie is pushing her way up the hill. She has one 
clenched. The other hand occasionally clutches
 fhe dirt as she climbs. Steven watches her. "I think 
Bes kinda cute.
 Millie pants a little. "Here you go. She empties a 
Bndful of leaves into Stevens hand. They are the 
V f an average adult thumbnail and a bit ragged. 
B^iat s my head lettuce. Should grow up sweet if the 
AVer dont rise and wash it away. Go ahead. Taste it.
Cutout. Itstranger to
'Pleased
/
"This is great, Millie. Steven looks at me, then at 
Her. "But I think well save it to put in our salad 
tonight. He sprinkles the leaves into his shirt pocket.
She pats his cheek. 'Thats fne, sh& says. She 
ushers us back into the kitchen. The screen door 
slams. Not much screen left but I love to hear that 
thing shut hard.
Jeannette is pouting in a chair at the kitchen table, 
her arms tucked under her knees. I think well leave, 
but Steven plants himself on a wooden crate in the 
far corner. He busily bites the inside of his cheek. I sit 
at the table with Jeannette, careful not to touch the 
back wall, which leans precariously over the edge. 
The windows seem like three wide eyes gazing down 
at the stream below.
"Can I get you all something to eat? Millie offers.
We shake out heads. "No, thank you, Steven 
replies.
Millie retrieves a loaf of bread from a metal 
cabinet. She whittles a chunk of butter from a dish in 
the icebox and spreads it across the heel.
"Is Gretchen back inside? she asks.
I look into the front room. "Yes. Shes asleep on 
the couch.
"Good dog. Millie leans against the stove as she 
sprinkles sugar on top of her bread. "A maniac come 
in one night and poked her eyes out. It was my 
husband. Well, it was my cousin first, then my 
husband. She takes a bite. "His temper always got 
him into fixes.
Jeannette looks like shes just chewed a lemon 
rind. She bends down to tie her hiking boot and 
comes close to brushing the top of a cockroach that 
waits by the chairs leg. Jeannette doesnt pull back, 
but ties her shoe and stares up at me as if she realizes 
that it belongs here.
"He come back a week later, a week to the very 
night. This time to get me. She puts down her bread 
and doesnt smile now. "See this eye? It is the one 
thats crossed. "Cant see a speck of light with it. But I 
took care of him before he took the other. Millie 
picks up a carving knife from a cardboard box on the 
counter. She displays the sharp edge then drops it 
back into the box. "His part of the family dont speak 
to me anymore. The sheriff said I done what I had to 
do.
Millie resumes nibbling on her bread. She bites on 
the side, then chews with her front teeth. The stale 
bread sticks in her teeth and to the roof of her mouth. 
She uses a long, dark fingernail to pry it loose. Not 
knowing how to respond to her story, I pick up a 
yellowed newspaper from the floor.
"Do you read much? I ask, ashamed for assuming 
her to be an illiterate.
Jeannette points to something on the first page. It 
is dated March 22, 1963.
"I can read the pictures, Millie boasts. 'Thats 
the one that has me when I stabbed Joe. Its best to 
look at when I cant sleep. Reading calms me down.
Steven swallows hard, Gretchen snarles from the 
next room.
"Gretchen, whos there? We got company, girl? 
Millie scurries to the porch.
I told you shes nuts! Jeannette stands up. "Lets 
g-Steven yanks at her belt loops. "Calm down, 
Jeannette.
Jeannette sits, defeated, huffing and puffing 
noisily. Steven rolls his eyes at her obnoxiousness. I 
agree.
Millie returns, obviously disappointed. 
"Gretchens chasing rabbits again.
"We have to leave now, Millie, I begin. "Our 
camp is still a few miles down from here.
"It might rain. You should stay. Her voice is 
quiet but rough, like tip-toeing through gravel. "A 
lightening storm can be Hell in these hills.
Jeannette grabs Steven by the arm and they head 
for the porch. I rise to follow but Millie stops me and 
holds my hand.
"I have pictures from when I was a girl like you. 
She seems to plead.
I make myself pull away and join Steven and 
Jeannette. Jeannette is dragging him by the 
shirtsleeve and I warn her not to be so obvious, that 
Millie might see. Millie comes out with Gretchen. 
Steven and Jeannette stroll down the road, not 
waiting for me. He blows Millie a kiss. She doesnt 
realize that its for her but waves back anyway.
"Wait, she tells me. "Give this to your 
girlfriend.
She folds the quilt neatly and holds it out to me. I 
drape it across one shoulder, only able to nod as I 
turn and run to catch up with Steven and Jeannette, 
and to disappear from Millies sight. Im nearing a 
curve in the road.
"Come back! Its going to rain, Millie calls.
I slow to a trot and turn around. Millie and 
Gretchen are gone. The quilt weighs heavily on my 
shoulder as I continue on the glaring sunlight.

---------------------------------------------------

12
SHEEP FARMING IN AMERICA 
by Gay Giordano
Last night I got into a discussion with my roommate, Ann, an art major who does 
things like making potato prints and paper out of dead vegetables. We were in the 
mood for an argument with each other, so the best topic we could think of was, of 
course, art, and, of course, we disagree about it.
I started a series of premises for her to lunge at, premises I really believe 
in. The first was that I believe farmers are artists too. (We didnt bother 
defining what art is first because thats a losing battle. We both have an idea. ) 
I backed up my argument by saying that I bet every damn farmer you meet can build 
an outhouse, (including Arms father who is a popcorn farmer) and building with 
wood is an art I find difficult to refute. She agreed with me on that point.
Then I said growing vegetables is an art because you are, to a degree, 
controlling the growth of something beautiful. You keep those vegetables 
watered and fertilized, you keep them protected from storms and whatnot... I 
went on to say those farmers can predict all kinds of weather, weather no-ones 
ever even seen before! Isnt that an art? I asked her, without getting into my 
theory on witch doctors, and mice with chicken teeth.
Dont be an ass, she replied. Nature grows those vegetables, she said, not 
farmers. Well, nature grew everything that makes your paint, Ann, as well as the 
dead vegetables you use for your paper and dye class. Your control over them as a 
painter and artist is never questioned, I spat, why question the people who 
control their actual physical growth? Those farmers could kill every last one of 
those lettuce heads if they wanted to, but they dont! Just like you dont stop 
yourself from painting when .you feel you have to, Ann. Isnt this the same thing? 
Lettuce ALLOWS you to paint! I screamed. Without those farmers who see to it that 
we have plenty of vegetables to eat and make paper out of, youre all washed up!
She was getting annoyed with me. She began to walk away until my final premise 
sufficiently shocked her into staying. I stated that it is without a doubt an art 
to roundup sheep off of a hill. Thats not an easy job, and theres an art to it 
just as theres an art to cooking and knitting. Listen to me, she says patiently, 
sheep-herding is NOT a damned art, Gay, its simply a responsibility! Isnt it 
your responsibility to create? I ask her. Isnt it your lot in life to paint? She 
claims lots in life are NOT artistic. They are a different category altogether, 
and I must be rational, she says.
Sheep, I begin again, have free wills of their own. They are entitled to graze 
wherever the hell they please, but it is^their lot in life to be herded and kept 
out of clover patches. If youve ever read Hardys  Far From The Madding 
Crowd,   you cannot help but feel Oak, the shepherd, is an artist. He knows what 
to do with those sheep in any circumstances. He knows to lance their sides when 
they blow up from too much clover, though he  s never done it before. Its an 
instinct. I ask Ann if she doesnt feel that when she knows what to do when, say, 
her paper she is making starts to split, she is controlling the same kind of 
situation Oak is. She is saving something that deserves to live. Like the 
lettuce farmer who lets the lettuce survive until its ready to be picked. The 
shepherd saves the sheep from harm, but more importantly, he is controlling the 
fates of hundreds of living things by rounding them up. Like rounding up all your 
ideas for a painting, Ann. It seems to me no small job. It seems to me to be the 
work of an artist. It is not easy to command crowds.
Ann leaves at this point, telling me I should stick to books, but when I tried 
to renew the argument tonight, she said she was only kidding me when she argued 
with me. Maybe she agrees with me.

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Jb 4? 4? & 4? 4? 4? <j? <& db db db db db db db db db db
1

*
t ****
U *
6 +
*
*
&
*
*
*
*
*
*
*********
U 
*
4?
JHft{ftftftiftf,if,iftiftifif>g.Cfiftfiqti(iftftSftCf>iftSft\
H&SS 
SECOND ANNUAL
SPRING FLING
SUNDAY 
APRIL 20
7:00 - 10:00 
GATEWAY PARTY LINER
"The perfect ending 
for Spring Carnival Weekend!"
Tickets go on sale Wednesday, 
March 19 at Coffee and Donuts, 
BH 254C, 8-1 lam and ut thv AAC, 
BH 161, 1 lam - 5pm
SPONSORED BY H&SS SAC
4*4*4*
*44**4*
1**4*44**4*4*4*4*4*44*
4*4*
4
4
4*
4*4*
*4*
: ).: .j i , .-4.4-14-1-
j-.-j | ! I! : | | j j j I~
#
After much revision and reor
ganization, DOSSIER is again 
on its feet and here to stay 
on a regular monthly basis.
The material is new, the for
mat is new, and the people are 
new. If you like what you see, 
why not get involved to keep 
up the quality or improve it?
We need writers, designers, 
artists, and ideas. Send your 
fan mail, hate mail, suggest 
tions, or services to TARTAN, 
Box 17 or stop by our office 
in Skibo room 50. All mail 
should be labeled DOSSIER.
We're looking forward to hear
ing from you.
John Bender writes and illus
trates "The Story of a True 
Marvel,11 Delmont the fireeater. Check out this sad but 
funny sa tire .
Mindy McNaugher, a senior 
photography major and our fea
tured student of the month, 
displays some of her fine work 
in black and white photography.
3.
5.
Lynn Epstein follows up on an 
article which appeared in the 
February 19 issue of the TAR
TAN on the Italian designer/ 
architect Gaetano Pesce. See 
results of the junior Industri
al design PAP under Pesce's and 
Professor DeGregori's direction, 
along with individual comments 
on the learning experiences of 
those involved.
6.
Professor Gerald Costanzo, head 
of the creative writing depart
ment and our featured professor 
of the month, shares some of 
his newer works in poetry
Gcfy Giordano, David Land, and 
Carolyn Toth present several 
interesting ideas and images in 
a selection of their poems.
Ken Kulak explores a childhood 
dilemma in his short story, 
"Shards"
STA-PH
Editor: Lynn Epstein*
Assistant Editor: David Land
Art Director: Tom Hart
Amy Gellman, Barbra Baken,
John Bender, Tom Weinkle, Andy 
Epstein, Robert Zussman, John 
Judy, Dave Robinson, Beth 
Klenosky, Laurie Hartwick,
Carl Verou
8.
9.
11.

---------------------------------------------------

FICTION John bender tells the
story of a* true marvel 3
by John B. Bender 
Pollaseoes wide screen art cinema closes at 
two a.m. It was three, and it was raining, and 
thirty-three year old Delmont Patterson was 
standing under the Pollascoe marquee. The 
cold wind had his shoulders hunched, his 
hands thrust deep into his trenchcoat pockets 
and his face numb. The marquee read,Jill 
Jasmine in Hot LicksYour wildest fantasies 
on screen. Delmont was standing under 
licks. He sniffed. Oh brother, I guarantee 
I've been in better, thats better, positions; 
guarantee. He leaned forward a bit and looked 
down the street as if expecting someone, or 
a bus, or something. He leaned back and closed 
his eyes. I wish. I wish, I wish, I wish,. . .1 wish I was with the circus. Delmont stood very 
still, his eyes remained closed, and he thought 
hard about being back in his father's circus. 
He concentrated on the sensations, the colors, 
the odors and the sounds of his former home.
Delmont was born into The Patterson Cfrcus 
World, a small travelling enterprise owned and 
managed by his father, who was owned by the 
circus and managed by his mother. Delmont 
grew up watching elephants shit, and clowns 
pee against tent struts. He found out early 
in life that his world was different and inac
cessible to outsiders. This was difficult on 
Delmont, as he desired to make friends out
side of the circus family. During adolescence 
he had made use of the lost hours from his 
never-materialized social life, and learned to 
eat fire. On the canvas sign hung over his 
own little tent was painted, in bright orange, 
Delmont the Fire Eater! On good days 
several hundred people would pay fifty cents 
to watch him eat fire.
It was only about four months into 
Delmonts career as a performer when some
thing happened to change the course of his 
life. One night he forgot to apply the fire
proof resin to the inside of his mouth. It 
wasn't until the middle of one of that 
night's performances when he realized his 
mistake, and was quite shocked to discover 
that he didn't need the fire-proof resin to 
eat fire! Amazing! First chance he got, he told 
his father. His father didn't seem to 
understand, or perhaps care. Instead of being 
amazed, as Delmont anticipated, he simply 
looked up from animal feed orders he had been
working on and said/'What?
I can eat fire without, that's-without, using 
resin. Delmont smiled. Mr. Patterson bit his 
lower lip as he eyed his son for a moment.
What are you using?
Delmont raised his eyebrows.
Nothing! < :
You're still performing every night, but just 
not using any resin, right?
That's it! Delmont said, smiling again.
Mr. Patterson turned back to his desk and 
began writing, mumbling to himself. When he 
stopped writing he spoke still facing his papers.
The savings from not having to purchase 
any more resin will increase the profit margin on the act by forty percent.
At this point, Delmont once again antici
pated congratulations. His father began rumaging through his papers.
I can transfer the extra cash to feed allot
ments,. . . More shuffling of papers. Where 
are those damn account bgoks?
Surprised and disappointed, Delmont didn't 
mention his unique ability to anyone for days, 
not until one evening when he was alone with 
his mother in their trailer home. He was help
ing her clean house when he told her. She let 
go of the couch cover they had been struggling 
to put on.
Oh, that's right. Your father told me about 
that and I completely forgot.
What did he tell you, Mom?
He told me how much money he's gonna 
save, that's what. Now I don't think it's neces
sary for you to go without supplies when all 
the other acts pamper themselves with every
thing under the sun, Del. Just this morning 
Elsie Boeman was in here demanding a bigger 
stage chair. People expect to see the fat lady 
squeezed tight into a chair, but you just watch 
and see if your father doesn't go and have crew 
make her a bigger chair. No sir, I don't think 
it's right for you to have to cut back on sup
plies. After all, you're the owner's son!
As Delmont resumed helping his mother 
cover the couch, he was silent, a bit confused 
by her speech.
Although he never did go back to using the 
fire-proof resin, he did more or less lose the 
desire to talk about it.
Six years after Delmont's first performance, 
his father died of cancer, and nine months later 
his mother sold the circus. Delmont continued 
working, but as a free-lance artist, performing 
wherever he could find an opening. Although 
he never made very much money, his life was 
running fairly smooth, right up to a steamy hot 
summer day in Needlesburg, Kentucky. 
Delmont was there working for a church carrival and he happened to mention to a fellow 
that he ate fire without protection. The fellow 
happened to be a physician, a prominent mem
ber of the community and a son of a bitch. 
Delmont had been on his break and in the back 
of his tent when talking to the good doctor, 
who took him by the arm and led him out 
into the midst of the busy carnival goers.
Your attention everybody! The Doctor 
shouted, still holding Delmont by the arm. 
Delmont yanked free of the large man's grasp, 
it was beginning to feel confused, the way he 
felt in the presence of his parents' reaction to 
his claim, only now the confusion was mixed 
with fear. People were starting to gather 
around.'
Your attention/' the doctor repeated."This 
man, known to you as Delmont the Fire Eater, 
daims to be able to eat fire without protection, 
or gimmick, if you prefer. Well/' the doctor 
scanned the crowd with his gaze,I am just the 
man to prove that this is impossible, and to 
prove once and for all that all such hizarre and 
ludicrous displays are phoney, and not to be 
accepted as true marvels! Our community will 
be an educated community!
The people applauded, but it only sounded 
like half of them.
Now then, the doctor turned to Delmont, 
I shall inspect this man's mouth, and profes
sionally discern if there is present any chemical 
or substance foreign to the human composi
tion, and if so, if it is effective in the preven
tion of burns.
My, Delmont thought, as he gentlemanly 
yawned for the advancing doctor, he certainly 
speaks very well in front of people.

---------------------------------------------------

CONTINUED o  . 
delmont the fire-eaterk
The crowd pushed in closer as the doctor 
peered long and deep down Delmont's throat. 
Most of the children, and a few adults were 
giggling. Delmont winced as the doctor's hairy 
fingers tugged on his cheeks. Finally, he seem
ed satisfied. He pulled his nose out of 
Delmonts maw. He wiped his hands on his 
handkerchief as he spoke.
"It is my conclusion that, at this time, there 
is no natural or artificial fire resistant sub
stances present in this mans mouth/' Once 
more turning to Delmont, I put it to you sir, 
dare you now to engage in your spectacle?
Sure.
Someone giggled, everyone else was silent. 
Delmont reached over to the floor of his tiny 
stage for his torches. Procuring, he lit them. 
He held them out, blazing ends first, to dem
onstrate the reality of the flames. All, the 
doctor included, seemed to agree to the au
thenticity of the fire. Delmont slowly sank the 
flaming end of one of the torches into his 
mouth. Delmont looked about him, at the de
flated doctor and the others, and he felt a sud
den glow inside, not pride, but something more 
like relief.
I think you should leave.
The voice addressing Delmont startled him. 
To his left stood the pastor of Needlesburg, 
an obviously old man with soft white hair, but 
very straight shoulders and clear eyes.
After he had eaten fire, Delmont saw men 
laughing, elbowing one another and pointing 
at the doctor. But now the same men were 
staring at Delmont, their smiles forgotten.
"Im old enough to know when I've seen 
one of the Devil's many tricks. I dont wish to 
say any more, I'll just ask you again to please 
leave. Now.
Delmont hadn't cried since he was a child, 
but hearing the pastors words, and sensing 
the sudden shift in the mood of the crowd, his 
eyes began to water.
Delmont left. He didn't even bother to take 
down his hand-painted canvas sign. It didnt 
matter though really, because Delmont didn't work much after that. The fact that he could eat fire, and the mark of the devil that the pastor had stuck him with seemed to follow him around, making whole towns suspicious 
of him before he even got to them. It continually got more difficult for Delmont to get bookings. That, coupled with the fact that he eventually lost all faith in himself, left Delmont jobless, homeless, and more alone than he had been since his mother had sold the circus.
When the owner of the Pollascoe arrived to 
open the doors of his wide screen art cinema, it was early morning and it was still raining. 
Fumbling through his keys as he walked to
wards the main door he almost tripped over a 
body lying on the pavement. It was Delmont, still under the marquee, only he was no longer 
standing under licks, but now sleeping under Jill Jasmine.
4'' e .../V,
\V
1. if

---------------------------------------------------

PHOTOGRAPHS 
mindy mcnaugher

---------------------------------------------------

by Lynn Epstein
The proceeding article is a follow-up to a 
features article on Gaetano Pesce that appear
ed in the TARTAN February 19 issue. Pesce, 
an Italian designer/architect, taught part 
of this semesters junior industrial design PAP 
class in conjunction with CMU professor 
Alessandro De Gregori. For his one month 
stay, the project was to convey a personal 
interpretation of what Pittsburgh means 
to you in an object. In the following ar
ticle are the results of this project, together 
with candid individual comments on the 
learning experience.
When two opposite ideologies confront in 
a classroom, the process of learning is bound 
to lead to conflicts. Add to this a language 
barrier and a dominating personality and 
the most obvious result is frustration. At any 
rate, as all of Gaetano Pesces junior design 
PAP agree, the one month project was an 
experience from which something, emotionally 
if not intellectually, was gained.
Because of the philosophies of the Italian 
designer /architect are polar with those of the 
CMU Design Department, the students faced 
a one month struggle to either reconcile, 
oppose, or accept the Pesce line of thought. 
Many of the junior designers were able to 
mold themselves to Pesce's ideas and gain a 
knowledge of materials and new design pro
cesses. Others found their greatest exper
ience in dealing with Gaetano Pesce himself. 
Contrary to the CMU school of thought, 
Pesce champions a master/apprentice rela
tionship between teacher and student which 
allows the teachers opinions to override 
all others. To students who are used to the 
freedom of explaining, adjusting, and com
promising their opinions with those of the 
professors, the Pesce experience was quite 
often frustrating.
The basic difference in Pesce's and CMUs 
philosophies involves a major clash in the 
definition of design itself. CMU teaches that 
responsible design is that which has the public's 
needs and preferences in mind, along with 
feasibility of production. Pesce's design places 
a fulfillment of self above the public; in other 
words, Pesce designs first for himself and then 
hopes that his needs or ideals are in concur
rence with those of the public. Although these 
differences could be reconciled for the sake of 
a one-time, unique experience, there seemed 
to be other barriers of language and person
ality which not only hindered learning but 
also fostered frustration. It was a general 
concensus that Pesce's imposing stature match
ed his personality.
Individual experiences ranged from highly 
positive to highly negative, but all admitted 
that an encounter with Pesce was a learning 
experience. The photographs of the resulting 
projects best display the thought, skill, and 
hard work that went into the PAP, but the 
corresponding quotations show, perhaps more 
importantly, what each student expected, 
experienced, and learned.
Craig Otto: The project was the worst educa
tional experience of my life. Mr. Pesce fs lack 
of respect for any opinion other than his own 
forced me to question his every action, [designer 
of the Tomable]
Dave Robinsoflj 
sitesproject, 
By turning 
are going..- r' 
we started..-w 
sofa]
Tom Weinkle: It was a chance to explore 
materials and processes I was not totally 
familiar with. I found it very difficult to accept 
the language barrier I was confronted with 
which made the experience a challenge. I 
expected a challenge; unfortunately, it was not 
where I had hoped it would be. Thats a part 
of what makes experiences interesting to 
participate in. [designer of the saddle /pop-top 
rocker]
Professor Alessandro De Gregori: I had a clear
er idea of what I expected at the beginning of 
the project than at the end because of the dis
covery process involved. Id like to refer to 
the table topas opposed to the traditional 
smooth table top, this one was constructed 
through a stratification of layers of paint, 
which seemed to represent a stratification of 
experiences, like my age. The table also repre
sented the complexity of the town and change. 
I am always intrigued by tables, mainly because 
of their functions as places for many activities, 
rituals, and social interaction. This was a 
different experience because we dont usually 
deal with expressing identity through an object. 
We tend to respond to others demands. In 
expressing ourselves, I found that we often 
times solved somebody else's problem as well. 
We learned the importance of being true to 
ourselves. I also learned the importance of 
working with a deadline. There is a sense of 
achievement when you can finish in a speci
fied period of time, [designer of the triangu
lar steel and cement-based table]
Barry Debsl^ 
[designer (

---------------------------------------------------

|r yei mua... 
jodular cribsystem]
Jean Luc and Pierres project: sunny-side 
up wall light
Henry Yocco: It lived up to my expectations. 
It was a bad experience, and I'm glad its over. 
I learned how to deal with different types of 
design attitudes, and some things dealing with 
the usage of various plastics. Also, I learned 
how to obtain a first class ulcer, [designer of 
the cross light]
Susan Helwig: Basically it was confusing, and, 
because of that, upsetting. I learned that you 
have to be cautious and develop insight when 
working with a difficult experience because 
of a language barrier and a personality conflict. 
I was led to believe it would be a good op
portunity, but I feel I received little guidance. 
I was more or less told what to do, and when I 
asked for explanations, I didn't get answers. 
Although this was true for me, Im not saying 
that I didnt learn anything, and I think that it 
was a good experience for those who worked 
more closely with him. [designer of the Heinz 
57 music stand]
^TonT^Terce^^TJie^eaPmng^xpenencerorrrw^ 
was a type which I had never before experi
enced. Pesce's intellectual insight on life and 
his method of employing these theories into 
his projects gave me an interest in the project 
(our project) from the very beginning to 
learn all that I could from this type of de
signer. Not only did I learn about the use of 
new materials, but I learned of a new way to 
look at design. It opened me up to a new 
attempt at design and the effect it causes on 
the public. The project was everything I 
expected it to be. I was looking for a new, dif
ferent course of design and its process, and 
this is what I received, [designer of the soft/ 
hard sofa]
Mark Beard: I learned the most about new 
materials and their design potential; however, 
I question the validity of our projects in that 
their production cost would make them pro
hibitively expensive.
[designer of the tear-gas dispenser/cane]
David Seaman: It was definitely a new exper
ience. Pesce has a very unique way of looking 
at design. I can't say that I agree with all he 
says, but I think that it is good to be subjected 
to diverse views. The project itself wasn't at 
all what I expected. There was a kind of wall 
between Pesce and myself that I was finally 
beginning to see over by the time the last week 
of our project with him rolled around, [designer 
of the I-beam cushioned seat]
|| I learned basically to gain more 
: of what is going on around us in a 
sens as well as political sense. It 
quite an interesting experience, a 
pace, [designer of the Steel City
pure sense an oppowhat we are taught.
We can see where we 
lve been?... or where 
1signer of the Hoagie
Gaetano Pesce's project: multi-colored
plastic belts with raised print surfaces
Binny Kelly: Through my experience with 
Pesce, I became aware of materials that I had 
never been exposed to before. As well as gain
ing insight on new materials, Pesces design 
philosophies were a learning experience in 
themselves. I found it to be quite enlightening 
to work under an instructor who comes from 
an entirely different school of thought from 
that which I am used to. All in all, the exper
ience was at first difficult or frustrating to 
adapt to, but once I caught on to the language, 
ideas and general philosophies, I had a great 
time just being creative, [designer of the foam 
covered 3-Rivers coffee table]

---------------------------------------------------

POETHY
gerald costanzo8
JUNGLES
If nothing between you 
and this world was right, 
you never said as much.
One day, without leaving, 
you simply retreated to 
seek your fortune
as if some California still 
existed, as if it were a state 
of mind. You learned
the rootlessness within
the body makes that journey
difficult.
Those letters to your 
loved one in Pennsylvania 
from whichever remote
village inside yourself
you sent them
told her of nothing but your
exquisite and declining 
penmanship. Years later, 
informed of your death,
I think of all the time 
we spend probing the dark 
continents of ourselves,
of what happens when a man 
at last, unshaven and ill-kempt, 
walks out of the jungles
of his own heart 
carrying not even so much 
as an answer.
BRAILLE
The blind folding their dollar 
bills in half. Giving the fives 
a crease on each corner; leaving 
the tens smooth as a knuckle.
There are ways, even in trust 
among the rank and file 
of the seeing, 
not to be bilked.
The blind leading the blind 
is not so bad
how it is lost on us everyday 
that you can learn all 
of the world you need to know 
by tapping it gently 
with a stick.
THE SACRED COWS OF LOS ANGELES
As if it had never happened, 
an old Angeleno will remember 
the coming of the word smog.
How in 1948 a meteorologist 
predicted the end of the past 
in four letters. How the sacred
cows brought with them traffic 
lights and street signs, cross
walks and the dotted line,
which after awhile they began 
to ignore. Pausing at corners 
theyd drool a pool of oil
and maybe etch a rubber patch,
leaving. They were fed
whatever it took. They were washed
and shined. At night theyd idle 
through La Cienega or watch 
from a lovers' lane over
the cool Pacific. Theyd snooze 
beneath the flickering face 
of the Escondido Drive-In
or sleep in garages, nestled 
in the waning fumes-safe, 
a few hours, from the future, safe
from the sight of the full moon,
a pomegranate resting
on the hazy lip of Los Angeles.-
THE MEETING
Somewhere along the road 
you meet up with yourself. 
Recognition is immediate.
If it happens at the proper 
time and place, you propose 
a toast:
May you remain as my shadow 
when I lie down.
May I live on as your ghost.
Then you pass, knowing you'll 
never see yourself that way 
again: the fires which burn 
before you are your penance, 
the ashes you leave behind are 
your name.
Gerald Costanzo is Director of the creative 
writing program at Carnegie-Mellon. In 1975 
he founded Carnegie-Mellon Press and its 
Poetry Series. His own work has been published 
in numerous magazines. He has been the recip
ient of a National Endowment for the Arts 
Creative Writing Fellowship, and this year of 
one of the first five Co-Ordinating Council of 
Literary Magazines Editing Fellowship. His 
first full-length collection, In the Aviary, 
won the Devins Award for Poetry and was 
published by the University of Missouri Press 
in 1975. These poems, with the exception of 
"The Meeting are from a manuscript-inprogress called The Laps of the Bridesmaids.
Credits: Jungles first appeared in Carolina 
Quarterly; The Sacred Cows of Los Angeles" 
first appeared in North American Review: The 
Meeting is from In the Aviary, University of 
Missouri Press.

---------------------------------------------------

aORE POETRY 
tudent poets9
by Gay Giordano
I
I've planned endless vegetable gardens 
And never grown one.
I begged six children 
To make me a bouquet of lilacs and 
Photographs and small 
White kisses.
They laughed at me
And ran down a long, soft tube.
Oh God, they looked like 
Portraits of all the animals 
Wholl never spring from my jungle 
By moonlight. . .
I put my white dress in a box and 
Burned it with perfume 
The stains formed faces of wolves 
Who ate the dress 
Stitch by stitch,
Page by page,
And all the unsigned letters
In an African city whimpered black
And whiskered at my feet.
II
The altar burst into flame 
And hundreds of white mice ran 
From under the cloth.
All the guests flew from their rows 
Into the rafters,
Trembling like paper animals.
My hair grew to the floor,
And rooted itself to tile.
I became an ice-covered pyramid.
A priest lay at my feet with a 
Dagger through his heart 
While Mother begged for my 
Crystal children to be 
Unburied from my caving walls.
Ill
I watch my white dress 
Dance in my attic late 
At night.
It spins around and around 
Laughing, throwing its arms 
Up in the air.
Sometimes it goes to the window, 
Looking for footprints in the grass.
Six tiny women sit on the windowsill, 
Their feet swinging back and forth 
As they sing for my dress.
They're wrapped in lace 
And throw beads on the ground.
My dress never seems to step on them. 
I rock back and forth in the corner, 
Hoping it will fall.
IV
I saw my wedding dress 
Floating beneath the ice.
I skated over it and 
Followed it down the river.
It tried often to get out,
But I never helped it.
I just watched.
At the end of the river, it stopped 
And pressed against the surface weakly, 
Whimpering softly to me.
I stared for a long time
At its long sleeves freezing to the
Underside of the ice, its
Skirts spread widely like a fan
it became stiffer and ider until I could
Hear it no longer.
I knelt down to check for sure,
And when I knew it was through begging, 
I skated away.

---------------------------------------------------

AND MORE) 
and more and more10
RUE BOURBON
by David Land
A world where rust is revered, 
cracked plaster praised;
Where the Natchez 
splashes 
its hurried way 
up the winding water.
Those on board have spurned the land 
where decadence has become industry 
and filth favored.
Drunkenness is necessary 
.to maximize
the mesmerizing effect
of aging neon signs
and swinging doors which teasingly expose 
The most beautiful boys in the world!" 
Every woman you see here's a man, 
they cry, and crowds elbow and crane, 
try not to look interested, 
although the rapture is obvious, 
especially to those whose job is 
to raise that rapture 
and capture 
the daring souls 
who stroll in 
Just to take a peek.
They pay the fee;
The Barker wins.
And those on the Natchez have missed 
all the fun.
f
I
JUST ANOTHER TANGERINE
by Carolyn Toth
Sometimes, on my own, 
Nothing left to do 
But sit on the edge of my bed 
And contemplate a tangerine 
As I rip away its skin, 
Discovering a tight huddle 
Of cowering fruit sections - 
Then notions of what occurs 
When my cover is torn away, 
Exposing one hidden 
Beneath the surface.

---------------------------------------------------

MOBE FICTIONlean kulak: shards ft
______________________________________
I 4....... : . : . ^ W.
I
by Ken Kulak
If you don't smash it, Eric, I'll hate you 
forever."
Eric held the smooth, cold stone which 
Brian had given him, its weight pulling down 
on his right arm. The two boys stood together 
just beyond the glare of the street lamps along 
Jefferson Lane, across from the West Madison 
First Chuch of Christ, Congregational.
I mean it, Eric. You've got to do it for me. 
Nobody else can.
In the shadows Eric could see Brian's face 
glaring at him, the dark eyes aglow with the re
flected lamplight. He shivered, half from the 
cool autumn night and half from Brians 
I voice,
But Brian, I think it's wrong. Everyone will 
be very mad  
Not as mad as me.
And it'll hurt them
What about me? What about my parents?
Brian's parents had told Brian co be home by 
ten when he and Eric had left their house after 
dinner. It was 9:30 now, pitch dark. After a 
couple hours walking around the neighbor
hood with their friends, they had gone to the 
church and waitied in the bushes until the ian~ 
itor had come out and driven away.
Brian had then gone out into the street and 
walked along the gutter, head bent, stoppingI
 every few steps to pick up a stone which he 
would toss lightly in the air and catch, then 
drop back into the gutter. Eric followed him, 
a few feet behind, occasionally asking Brian 
a question but getting no answer. When a car 
came by they would run off the read and wait 
for it to pass, watching the car headlights slice 
the bushes where they hid.
Finally, Brian found a stone that he liked 
and turned and gave it to Eric and told him to 
go smash the stained glass window built on the 
right side of the church in honor of Brian's 
grandfather.
He was a bad man, Eric. The town thinks 
he was wonderful, helping with the Boy Scouts 
and the Lion's Club, but he wasn't. He pun
ished my mother all the time she was growing 
up, he hated my father when he married her, 
he wouldnt even talk to me, ever. Brian's 
voice lowered. Sometimes Mom would cry at 
night after one of his visits, and Dad would be 
angry. And he was rich and wouldnt help us at
all, when Dad couldn't work.Why don't you do it? asked Eric, for the
second time that evening.
Brian turned away from Eric and spoke, 
looking at the church.
Mv parents are going to ask me, 'Did you 
smash Grandfather's window?' And I have to 
be able to say 'no'. They'll be mad at me if 
they find out that I did it. This way they can't 
blame me. And you won't get caught, it 
doesn't matter to your parents.
Eric fingered the stone, weighing the ques
tion. Brian turned back, hL face pleading in 
the darkness, and looked at him.
Alright, 111 do it. Eric abruptly began 
walking towards the church, hearing Brians 
whispered, Good, good called out after 
him.
He crossed Jefferson without looking, the 
sound of his shuffling feet on the asphalt echo
ing in the still air. He switched the stone to his 
left hand and then back to his right, his throw
ing arm, testing the balance. He o ;nt want to 
be too near the window.
Eric walked past the church sign, where a 
little light illuminated 11:00 AM Service  
All Welcome, Rev. C. Williams Pastor. He 
wondered if Brian was watching him, but to 
turn and look would be to turn back, and he 
couldn't do that. Eric had only met Brian's 
grandfather once, and he didn't like him then.
Brian had told him it was the second win
dow, and Erie walked around the corner of 
the building and alongside the church. A row
of gnarled trees grew close to the wall, almost 
touching the vine-covered brick of the church, 
but he could see the stained-glass windows 
above them. Eric saw that they were all dimly 
lit, and nearly turned back, then realized that 
the janitor had probably left a night light or 
something. He could see the colors of the 
first window: a dark bluegreen frame sur
rounded a red-covered, white-paged bible with 
large words and big, complex letters at the top 
of each page. He tossed the stone lightly in the 
air, imagining the smashed glass, the gaping 
hole in the wall.
But not this one. Eric moved along the wall 
to the next, Grandfather's window, walking a 
little farther from the building so he could 
throw the stone well. When he was under it he 
turned to face the church, and looked at the 
window.A Boy Scout dressed in uniform, with merit 
badges and a cap and cold, young eyes stared 
down at him. To the left of the figure Eric 
could read Be Prepared and on the right was 
Honor thy father and mother, and thy coun
try, and beneath the figure the words Robert 
S. Carter, Christian and citizen, 1898-1979". 
The colors were dull with the tiny glow behind 
them, the glass so fragile, the woras floating at 
the base of the window.
Eric held the stone tightly, wondering, de
ciding, gazing at the colors. His hand that held 
the stone felt separate and cut off from the rest 
of his arm as he stood there, looking. He felt 
the trees before him, and the brick wall, and 
the jagged ptecss of glass cascading into the 
church if he threw the stone.
Suddenly the light behind the window shift
ed and Eric fearfully threw the stone and ran. 
He heard it hit, heard it smash, and looked up 
as he passed the bible window where there 
washed more light. Behind him he heard the 
glass tinkling, and started to run faster back to 
the street, to where Brian waited for him, and 
they both ran as fast as they could down Jef
ferson.

---------------------------------------------------

S upu upu utuSutSutSStSStuS utuuS upu utu utSutuSut
I

H&SS INTERNSHIPS
ATTENTION
| Majors or prospective majors in
Applied History, History,
| Philosophy, Social Science, Public
Policy, Writing and other H&SS 
students with writing and research
skills.
On Wednesday, March 19th, at 
4:00 pm, in the H&SS Lounge (Baker 
Hall 254C) Ms. Susan Porter of 
the American Civil Liberties 
Union (A.C.L.U.) will discuss 
internship opportunities to be 
available as of the Fall semester, 
1980. All interested students 
invited. Refreshments will be
served.
DON'T PASS THIS UP.
Sponsored by the H&SS SAC 
and the H&SS Academic Advisory Center
