Inside
Calendar........................................................L14
Classified...........................................................9
Comics.............................................................L5
Diversions.........................................................L9
Forum.................................................................4
Living...............................................................a
Sports................................................................12
Diversions
'Burgh rock reviewed
 see page L9
Sports
Hockey Club crushes Rock 
 see page 12
'Bur ghoockevikhwke drBwBhksroh
Features
Student art explored
 see page LI
-s
THE TARTAN
Volume 90, Issue 15Carnegie Mellon Universitys Student Newspaper Since 1906p goahLkh9 HyyC
ikhwke lbRo drBwB
12BwRkeS tkhS rku aooe k sBsLRkh rkeBLw ube2o bw BsoeoS be 1nbaB be HyxpI
Scotland Yard to 
receive new name
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
The spirit of Skibo will be kept 
alive when the new University Cen
ter opens, but many will notice a 
major difference. Instead of a new 
Scotland Yard in the Center, the 
University Center Advisory Com
mittee intends to start the Skibo 
Coffeehouse, a modified version of 
the old student haunt in Skibo.
Scotland Yard has been the local 
coffeehouse for CMU since 1985. 
Originally located in the former 
Skibo, the Yards eclectic and erratic 
decorations and smoky atmosphere 
made it a common hang-out. How
ever, when Skibo was torn down in 
1994, Scotland Yard was moved to 
the faculty diningroom in Morewood 
Gardens, where much of the same 
food was served, but little of the 
same atmosphere was maintained.
The Yard was student-run and 
managed from its creation until 
its move. It is now run by dining 
services. The eclectic fare served 
at the old Yard, including mon
strous nachos and baba ganoush, 
has been somewhat pared down 
at the current location.
A committee consisting of Dean 
Murphy, Margaret Michaels, two 
graduate students, and two under
graduates (including Student Sen
ate chair Brenden Mielke and a 
Scotland Yard student manager) 
made the decision after much dis
cussion.
They had been working with the 
space for a while, said Dean 
Murphy. Because the University 
Center would not be called Skibo, 
the committee decided that the new 
incarnation of Scotland Yard in the 
University Center wili be called The 
Skibo Coffeehouse.
Although the name Scotland Yard 
may be a tradition for some, it was 
decided by this committee that the 
name should be changed to reflect a 
change in the establishment. The 
Scottish name Skibo has tradition
ally been used somewhere on cam
pus for years. Scotland Yard isnt 
Scottish at all. It was just a name 
and the coffeehouse was only there 
for six years, said Margaret 
Michael, Coordinator of Student De
velopment. The Committee, chose 
a name that will really reflect the 
Carnegie Mellon spirit and history. 
dRokuo uoo 1/TF-N sko m
Volulme90 e9 ,Is15 Cao5reI9o,
By JON BETZ
Tartan Junior Staff writer 
& ERIC SALZMAN 
Tartan Personnel Manager
On CMUs campus, you can recycle plas
tic bottles in any building except in a 
residence hall. Jodi Kurtz, a freshman 
H&SS undeclared, wants to know why. 
Plastics are safe, easy, and cheap to re
cycle, she said.
Kurtz first became aware of a need to 
increase recycling efforts inresidence halls 
when she realized that Scotland Yard, 
where she .BhnuN did not recycle glass Bh 
plastic refuse. She was able to secure a 
glass recycling bin lBh Scotland Yard 
wrhBLr Dan Askin, rBLube facilities co
ordinator, but said that Askin told her 
that plastic is not recycled on campus. 
Kurtz then began to investigate further, 
as she knew plastics are recycled in aca
demic buildings on campus.
Trying to determine campus policy with 
respect to plastic recycling in residence
halls, Kurtzs next contact was Barbara 
Kviz, the campus recycling coordinator.
Part of Kvizs responsibilities include 
heading the CMU Environmental Policies 
Committee, which, Kviz said, worked for 
the past five years to increase the aware
ness of and participation in campus-wide 
recycling efforts. This semester, Kviz will 
also be working with Tim Shaeffer, a sec
ond-year masters student in,the Heinz 
school, and a team of University Liaisons, 
to update the Universitys environmental 
policy to include waste reduction as well 
as recycling.
When Kurtz met with Kviz last Tues
day, Kviz told her that she has no contact 
with or support from Housing with re
gards to recycling policy. Kviz, part of 
Facilities Management Services, told 
Kurtz that Askin, who operates out of the 
Housing office, would be the appropriate 
person to speak with about recycling in 
residence halls. According to Kurtz, when 
she spoke to Askin, she was referred back 
to Kviz.
Barbara Kviz didnt know what Hous
ing was doing and Housing didnt know 
what she was doing and they kept sending 
me back and forth, Kurtz said. After the 
Tuesday meeting with Kviz, Kurtz arranged 
to meet again with Askin in Housing. Askin 
emphasized in their meeting that the mat
ter of recycling in residence halls is in a 
state of flux as the University custodial 
contract moves from American Building 
Maintenance (ABM) to Central Property 
Services (CPS). Whether or not recycling 
will be included in the new contract, and to 
what extent remains to be seen. According 
to Askin, a new contract should be negoti
ated by the end of this week. The contract 
is being negotiated by Sandy Winter, the 
Housing Supervisor for CPS. Askin said, I 
have a positive attitude about changes. 
Kurtz was unable to determine the status 
of plastic recycling even though she ques
tioned Askin repeatedly.
After meeting with Askin Thursday af
ternoon, Kurtz said she feels tired of being 
dRokuo uoo EOftf>ON sko m
Irish leader seeks Pittsburgh support
ByAMIT N.KAR
Tartan Business Manager
Gerry Adams, a major player 
in Irelands struggle for inde
pendence and head of Sinn 
Fein, the political wing of the 
Irish Republican Army, spoke 
at a fund-raising breakfast at 
the Doubletree Hotel in down
town Pittsburgh on Sunday 
morning. He was there on the 
invitation of Mayor Tom 
Murphy, who had visited Ire
land recently with President 
Clinton, and an American sup
port group known as the 
Friends of Sinn Fein. Other 
prominent people in atten
dance at the breakfast were 
Tim Stevens, president of the 
NAACP, several members of 
Congress, and Pittsburgh city 
officials.
After a brief prayer and 
breaking-of-bread, there were 
a series of short statements
made by Mairtin OMuilleior, 
head of the economics department 
of Belfast City Council, Sean 
McClorey, a prominent member 
of Pittsburghs Irish community 
and an organizer of Adams visit, 
and Mayor Murphy, who intro
duced Adams to a rapturous 
standing ovation.
After saying that, the warmth 
of the welcome he had received 
more than compensated for the 
bitter cold of Pittsburgh, and 
making a joking remark about a 
secret BBC microphone, Adams 
treated the pro-Irish audience to 
a colorful speech touting his vi
sion for the future of the peace 
process in Northern Ireland. Re
ferring to a rally held downtown 
the night before, he said, this 
has been a very active Irish com
munity. I have been uplifted by 
the turnout.... Its delightful to 
see that so far away, people have 
kept the faith.
Adams stressed the importance
!eShoJ W2:ohcBwwvikhwke Wkekbe OSbwBh 
Dohh9 !Skcu kSShouuou dbwwuaLhr uLssBhwohu Bl 1bee gobeI
ask me to sit at the back of the 
bus.
of dialogue throughout his 
speech. Alludingto the famous 
American civil rights activist, 
Rosa Parks, Adams said that 
his attitude to the peace pro
cess was one of Just dont
Thats what this peace pro
cess is aboutseats for every
one. There are enough to go 
dRokuo uoo TET1N sko m
nI90so55 o5rgime5Mo5 9oU me1ergreI95 vIs romolI11a9elgreI95
WASHINGTON Feb. 2 (AP)  Americans can 
expect to see a dramatic transformation of tele
vision, telephone, and computer services, now 
that a historic overhaul of the nations telecom
munications laws has sailed through Congress.
But how soon?
I think youll see companies reacting fairly 
quickly, Vice President A1 Gore said in a tele
phone interview Thursday. President Clinton is 
likely to sign the bill within a week, Gore said.
The massive overhaul of the 1934 Communica
tions Act would allow head-to-head competition 
between cable TV and local and long-distance 
telephone companies, de-regulate cable rates, 
and allow media companies to more easily ex
pand their holdings. It also would restrict smutty
material on computer networks and television.
Even though companies have been preparing for 
this new era of telecommunications competition, 
Youre not going to have people in the field tomor
row constructing new (telephone) lines and throw
ing a switch, said Rep. Jack Fields, R-Texas, one 
of the architects of the bill. Its just not going to 
happen that quickly, he said.
The billsaluted by Sen. Larry Pressler, R-S.D. 
as a telecommunications road map into the new 
century  flew through the House on Thursday, 
414-16, and then the Senate, 91-5.
Clinton hailed the measure, saying, consumers 
will receive the benefits of lower prices, better 
quality, and greater choices in their telephone and 
cable services, and they will continue to benefit
from a diversity of voices and viewpoints in radio, 
television and the print media.
For instance, cable companies say theyll speed 
up delivery of high-speed modems that connect 
customers to the Internet and other computer 
services that transmit a lot of data cheaply. Tele
phone companies say theyll accelerate movies on 
demand and interactive television.
And broadcasters say once they switch over to 
digital technology, they may offer multiple chan
nels of programs, home shopping, and transmit 
sports scores to laptop computers.
Supporters say the measure would boost jobs, 
expand consumer choices, and potentially lower 
prices for cable, telephone, and other communica
tions services.
But opponents say that more jobs will be lost 
than gained through consolidation, that choices 
will be limited, and that cable and telephone rates 
are likely to go up considerably because the level of 
competition envisioned by supporters will not 
emerge.
Sen. Patrick Leahy, D-Vermont, who voted 
against the bill, said he was concerned about 
deregulating cable, saying, I dont want to see a 
repeat of skyrocketing cable rates on passage of 
this law.
Long-distance companies and cable companies 
say it could take anywhere from six months to four 
years to begin providing local phone service  
depending upon the market.
dRokuo uoo f-zDEO11N sko m
The Age of Aquarius
'bc 1e9Sohvikhwke :khnhBBc Wkekoh 
fkuw cocaohu hovbubwoS wro C0u JrbRo sohlBhcbe Hair be fg! RBaa9 Rkuw ghbSk9I
Library renovations to relieve space crunch
By TREVOR MEYEROWITZ
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
There may soon be some relief to the 
space crunch in Hunt Library. After 
much planning and discussion, con
struction has begun in the basement 
of Hunt.
We are tearing out the partitions, 
bringing the wiring up to code, replac
ing the ceiling tiles, and putting in shelv
ing for books, said Ignatios Alexander, 
the head of University Libraries. The 
lighting and the floors are also being 
refurbished. This construction will free 
up slightly less than 10,000 square feet 
of space. Office space and reading areas 
for students will also be added to the 
basement space.
Bill Pisarcik, the superintendent of 
Mosites Construction Company, said
that the refurbishing should be com
pleted in four to six weeks.
There may be more renovations after 
these. Alexander mentioned that the li
brary might reinforce the floor with con
crete and install comp act, moveable shelv
ing to better utilize the space.
Much planning went into this project. 
Over the years, the library has added 
new service and tweaked the facility, but 
weve never had a top to bottom look at it 
... and now weve got a plan, said Charles 
Lowry, the University head librarian. The 
students interests have been taken into 
account. We surveyed 175 students in a 
sample to get user input. We wanted to 
make sure that we consulted with the 
students, said Lowry.
Some problems have been caused by 
the construction. The first of these prob
lems is the relocation of Instructional
Technology (IT), a media service for 
students and faculty that was forced to 
move out because of the construction. IT 
is now located in Building D. This move 
is actually an improvement because;IT 
designed its office space. The spac6 
were in now is much more functional 
and is more comfortable for the par 
trons, said Maria Wilkinson, a mam 
ager for Industrial Technology.
The construction has gone on quietly 
and not many students have been both
ered by the noise. Circulation desk atten
dant Victoria Stoddard, a sophomore biol
ogy major, said, I havent really noticed 
[the construction] with everything else 
that goes on around here.
Despite the occasional light tapping 
and mild banging heard on the first floor, 
the Hunt Library renovations seem to be 
a welcome improvement.

---------------------------------------------------

2The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 1996
  
Telecommunications bills 
major changes at a glance
Feb. 2 (AP)  Key provisions of the telecommunications bill:
MEDIA OWNERSHIP
 Allows a TV company to own stations that reach up to 35 percent of all 
national TV viewers. The existing limit is 25 percent.
 Allows companies to own more radio stations locally than they can now.
 Keeps existing rules that forbid one company from owning two TV stations 
in a local market, or a newspaper and TV station in the same market, or a 
newspaper and cable in the same market.
 Lifts law that bans one company from owning a TV station and cable system 
in the same market, but retains an existing regulation that bars such 
ownership while allowing exemptions.
CABLE TELEVISION
 Immediately deregulates rates for customers of small 
cable TV systems  about 20 percent of the nations 61 
million cable subscribers. Deregulates rates for all other 
customers by March 31,1999, or sooner if a cable com
pany competes against a telephone company for cable 
customers.
 Makes it harder for cable customers to contest rates at 
the Federal Communications Commission.
TV VIOLENCE, SEX
 Requires television makers to install a computer chip in new 
sets to let people block shows electronically labeled by cable 
networks and broadcasters for violence and other content.
COMPUTER PORNOGRAPHY
 Outlaws transmission of sexually explicit and other inde
cent materials to minors under 18 over computer networks. 
LONG-DISTANCE SERVICE
 Requires local Bell companies to comply with a checklist 
to ensure there is competition.
'Requires the FCC to determine that Bell entry into the 
long-distance market serves the public interest.
 Forbids a local Bell company from providing long
distance service until a competitor provides local phone
service to some residential and business customers.
 Gives Justice Department recommendations substan
tial weight when FCC considers whether to let local Bell 
company into Long-distance.
LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE
 Makes it easier for cable, long-distance and other compa
nies to provide local telephone service by pre-empting state 
and local regulatory barriers.
' Dkahboe 19cBeuv
- ' ikhwke !hw OSbwBh
Former Pirates pitcher plans to 
run for seat in U.S. congress
PITTSBURGH Feb. 1 (AP)  Former 
Pirates pitcher Jim Rooker plans to seek 
the Republican nomination for the 4th 
Congressional District, a seat currently 
held by Democratic U.S. Representa
tive Ron Klink.
Hooker, 53, announced his intentions 
to! seek the nomination in the April 
primary on Wednesday. He is working 
as a baseball analyst for the ESPN sports 
channel and lives near Bradenton, Fla., 
but maintains a residence in Ambridge, 
where he is part owner of Rooks East 
Side Saloon. He retired from major 
league baseball in 1980 after pitching 
for 13 years in the major leagues with 
Kansas City and Pittsburgh.
Ive thought of politics a long time, 
said Rooker. Im 99 percent sure Im 
going to do this.
;Rookers campaign manager, Dennis 
Casey of Pittsburgh, is a former Klink
adviser who has since claimed the con
gressman owes him more than $20,000 
in fees.
Klink, a former KDKA-TV news
caster from Penn Township, won elec
tion in 1992 with 78 percent of the 
vote. He enjoys a 2-1 Democratic reg
istration ratio.
Rooker also must overcome the pub
licity surrounding his three drunken 
driving convictions. In 1990, he was 
arrested outside Three Rivers Stadium 
after a Pirates game for driving under 
the influence when he crashed his car 
into a utility pole. His blood-alcohol 
level at the time was .14, compared to 
the legal limit of .10.
Im glad [the arrests] happened be
cause of the direction I was headed, he 
said. I got kicked in the rear end. It 
straightened me out. I got a hell of an 
education the wrong way.
Cybersex leads to divorce battle
SOMERVILLE, N.J. Feb. 1 (AP)  A 
Bridgewater woman carrying on a vir
tual affair with a computer love calling 
himself The Weasel never got further 
than cyber sex, but shes accused of adul
tery anyway in a real divorce suit.
Diane Goydans husband, John, 
learned about her online trysts by read
ing her electronic mail exchanges with a 
married man she met on the America 
Online computer service, according to 
court papers.
In divorce papers filed Jan. 23 in Su
perior Court here, John Goydan claimed 
the two were about to rendezvous, with 
plans to meet Friday at Newark Inter
national Airp ort and then drive to a New 
Hampshire bed-and-breakfast inn for a 
real tryst. Goydan is now seeking cus
tody of the couples two children, ages 
three and seven.
His court filing includes dozens of ex
changes  some sexually explicit  
between Diane Goydan and The Wea
sel, the online name of a man further 
identified in the suit only as Ray from 
North Carolina. Among the messages 
reprinted in the lawsuit was a poem, 
sent to her by The Weasel on Christ
mas Eve, that begins:
Twas the day before Christmas/and 
all did seem right/The Weasel and Diane/ 
were planning their night.
Attorney Richard Hurley, who repre
sents John Goydan, said Diane appar
ently believed the email messages could 
not be retrieved, but her husband was 
able to pull them off the computer and 
store them on a disk.
That raises some privacy issues, such 
as what rights spouses have to each 
others communications, said David 
Banisar, spokesman for the Electronic 
Privacy Information Center in Wash
ington, which studies Internet privacy 
issues.
If its a shared computer, then the 
spouse has equal rights to get on it and 
share whats on it, Banisar said.
But if the husband were gaining ac
cess to her email via her Internet ac
count, that could be violating her pri
vacy rights, similar to the situation of a 
husband wiretapping his wifes tele
phone.
Its still pretty undefined in the law, 
Banisar said.
The divorce suit does not state whether 
the wife had stored her email on the 
Goydans home computer, or whether he 
was retrieving the transmissions from 
America Online after she read them.
The suit states Goydan began saving 
his wifes email every day after surpris
ing her as she was printing out some
thing on the computer when he came 
home from work early on October 26.
She angrily inquired what he was 
doing home so early. She ripped a half 
page from the printer and hastily shut 
the computer off, divorce papers state.
When Goydan later turned on the com
puter, it told him there was something 
waiting to be printed, and he discovered 
a message to his wife from The Weasel. 
The suit claims that Diane Goydan, 
knowing the relationship was discov
ered, promised that day to end it but 
later that night sent The Weasel a 
message that they had been caught.
How are we going to get through 
this? she wrote.
Another message from Diane Goydan 
a few weeks later read, I will not make 
you sorry for sticking with me. I just 
have to learn to be more careful.... I want 
so badly to be with you that I am willing 
to chance it.
The two continued planning a rendez
vous, even enlisting the help of Dianes 
best friend, a New Hampshire woman 
named Maureen, who communicated 
with her via America Online. Maureen 
was to provide an alibi, and Diane was to 
bring a camera to take pictures of her 
and Maureen as proof she had spent the 
weekend visiting her friend.
In a November 23 message telling 
Diane to make the arrangements with 
Maureen, The Weasel wrote, I gotta 
tell you that I am one happy guy now and 
so much at peace again anticipating us. 
I love you dearly. XXOOXX.
Reached by telephone at home 
Wednesday, Diane Goydan refused to 
discuss the case with a reporter from 
The Star-Ledger of Newark.
Youre kidding me, she said, then 
hung up.
Salmon industry suffers losses "
DILLINGHAM, Alaska Feb. 2 (AP)  
The Japanese recession coupled with an 
increase in farmed salmon and more 
fish from Russia have combined to con
tinue to depress the market for Alaska 
salmon. Some industry leaders say they 
see no end in sight.
Nobody has been able to explain to 
me that theres a way out, said Rick 
Lauber, vice president of the Pacific Sea
food Processors Association. Its a real 
downer.
The unrelieved market depression was 
linked in part to the Bristol Bay fleets 
dependence on Japan, which began buy
ing the regions sockeye salmon in 1978 
and quickly became Alaskas top mar
ket.
We got sucked in, Virginia Klepser, 
a state seafood employment coordina
tor, told the Bristol Bay Times newspa
per on Thursday.
It was so easy to go with the Japanese 
market, and they took all we produced. 
I think were going to go back to looking 
at some other markets, she said.
For instance, Alaska should continue 
to develop domestic markets for salmon 
while looking to Third World countries 
as well, Klepser said. She said the indus
try also must keep looking for more 
efficient packing and shipping methods.
But Gunnar Knapp, a University of
Alaska Anchorage professor who concentrates on fisheries, says the salmon 
market has always sustained ups and 
downs, and better times could be ahead.
Say Americans double demand (for 
salmon) as a result of new products or 
health concerns, Knapp said. You can 
imagine the farmed-salmon industry 
going through a real shakeout.
Jay Cherrier, owner of Dragnet Fish
eries, was unconvinced. He said packers 
and Japanese buyers lost an estimated 
$100 million or more on last summers 
salmon. Few expect processors to match 
last summers Bristol Bay dock price ot 
75 cents a pound for sockeyes.
Some observers say Bristol Bay prices 
could drop to as little as 60 cents 
pound. The region is still absorbing 
decision by Inlet Salmon to seek Chap. 
ter 11 bankruptcy protection and at least 
one processor was weighing whether to 
quit Bristol Bay altogether.
Ben and Jerrys hires new exec.
MONTPELIER, Vt. Jan. 31 (AP) - 
Ben & Jerrys Homemade Inc. has hired 
the head ofaNewYorkmarketingagency 
to direct its worldwide marketing and 
sales.
The Vermont ice cream maker said 
Jeriy Welsh of Welsh Marketing Associ
ates Inc. would be responsible for help
ing the company continue expanding its. 
domestic sales while breaking into in-, 
temational markets.
Jerry Welshs extraordinary business 
experience and creative ability will move 
our marketing to the next level of excel
lence, successfully growing our domes
tic and international positions, said 
Robert Holland Jr., Ben & Jerrys chief 
executive.
Ben & Jerrys said in a news release 
that Welsh had reduced the client base 
of his private marketing company, but 
would continue running it while work
ing for the ice cream maker.
Welsh made a reputation for himself 
while executive vice president of Ameri
can Express Co. during the 1980s. He 
headed campaigns to introduce Ameri
can Express platinum card, a market
ing campaign aimed at women, and the 
companys program to help restore the, 
Statue of Liberty. He also was involved 
in raising money for individual national 
teams for the 1984 Olympics.
At Ben & Jerrys, he will have to help 
the $155 million company look for new 
growth areas at a time when sales of 
super premium ice cream and frozen 
yogurt are flat or growing only slightly.
Ben & Jerrys co-founder Ben Cohen 
said Welsh would be a natural fit at the 
company.
Jerry Welsh understands the heart, 
the soul and the spirit of Ben & Jerrys 
and is helping us to actualize them in a 
practical way, Cohen said. We are truly 
impressed with the passion and the 
marketing prowess that he brings to our 
social and economic missions.
Four-Day Forecast
MondaydkhwR9 2RBLS9 keS 
2BRS Jbwr klwoheBBe 
lRLhhbouI br Te wro 
Lssoh H0uI
Tuesday
dkhwR9 2RBLS9 Jbwr 
u2kwwohoS ovoebe 
lRLhhbouI br be wro 
cbS 20uI
Wednesday
frke2o Bl lRLhhbou keS 
2BRSI br be wro 
RBJoh m0uI
Thursday
frke2o Bl ueBJI
br be wro RBJoh 40uI
Carnegie Almanac
ghBc zkwbBekR .okwroh 1ohvb2o aLRRowbeu keS Bwroh uBLh2ou
50 YEARS AGO, February 5, 
1946: A letter to the editor in 
defense of Womens rights to 
wear denim dungarees cited the 
problems of the Carnegie Tech 
culture.
...To begin with, Carnegie 
Tech is, fortunately or unfortu
nately, divided into four parts 
 the Library School, Marga
ret Morrison, Engineering, and 
Fine Arts  with too little com
munion between the divisions.
The author of the letter as
serted that many of Techs so
cial problems and misunder
standings stemmed from this 
lack of communion. Again, 
some things never change.
25 YEARS AGO, February 
4, 1970: the Tartan reported 
the content of the State of the 
University address given by 
Patrick Cavanagh, Student 
Government President, before 
the Student Senate. Cavanagh 
commented on the three main 
problems that faced the stu
dents of Carnegie-Mellon. 
These three problems included
the pressing question posed by 1986: Carnegie Mellon was 
Cavanagh Does the Student named the National Center for 
Government actually serve the the Study of Writing by the Nastudents? tional Institute of Education.
Cavanaghs third concern dealt 
with finances  how money is 
collected and employed by the 
Student Government for student 
activity use.
As Senate-funded organiza
tions across campus begin to pre
pare their 1996-97 operating bud
gets to propose to the Senate on 
February 21, it is interesting to 
observe that activities-funding 
has never been a popular issue at 
CMU, not even in 1971.
10 YEARS AGO, February 4,
A grant of $4 million was made 
on the basis of a joint proposal 
made by CMU and the Univer
sity of California (Berkeley). Out
standing programs in the areas 
of cognitive psychology and rheto
ric gave CMU a strong case for 
the grant. Linda Flowers and 
John R. Hayes became the co
directors of CMUs center. Flow
ers called the center the first 
major commitment the DOE has 
made to writing.
FIVE YEARS AGO, January 
30,1991: The name Vince Eirene
once again haunted the pages of 
The Tartan, after the namesake1 
was found not guilty of aggra
vated assault.
Eirene was accused of biting a 
Pittsburgh Police Officer while 
being arrested for defiant tres-' 
passing, but was cleared of the 
charges.
The incident occurred during a 
protest against Carnegie Mellons 
Department of Defense (DoD). 
research liaison. Eirene has been 
a long-time opponent of Carnegie , 
Mellons DoD research projects, 
and of the SEI.
Compiled by 
KENNETH J. KRAEMERTARTAN
iro ikhwke 2oRoahkwou bwu y0wr keebvohukh9 wrbu 9okhI ohou wro sksoh'u Hyx0 lRk'

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 19963
nI90so55 tg55o5 5rselr lI11a9elgreI95 iemm
f-zDEO11N lhBc sko H
David Doman, president of Pacific Bell, 
iredicted residential telephone custom
ers in New York, Illinois and California 
will be among the first to have choices of 
local phone providers.
Some Bell companies expect to provide 
long-distance service outside their local 
phone territories as soon as Clinton signs 
the bill. But consumers may have to wait 
longer to get long-distance service from 
their ownBell company, because local 
Bell companies must clear a number of 
regulatory and competitive hurdles be
fore they can offer long-distance service 
to their existing customers.
We have been working actively for 
months to meet the requirements of the
yra,o9r tas5ao5 tmg5rel5 solulme90 e9 ,Is1erIseo5
new law so we can make all communi
cations services available through onestop shopping in the very near future, 
BellSouth Corp. chairman John 
Clendenin said.
As for cable competition, phone com
pany executives say the new law will 
accelerate their plans to sell cable ser
vices to their customers, but they 
wouldnt be more specific.
How long the telecommunications 
transformation takes is also affected by 
the Federal Communications Commis
sion, which will be in charge of writing 
many of the rules under the new law.
The FCC already has begun the 
groundwork for some of those rules 
and will move as quickly as it can,-
said FCC Chairman Reed Hundt. In 
the end, What Americans are going to 
get is a lot more choice, some initial 
confusion, and ultimately, very attrac
tive new services at very fair prices, 
Hundt predicted.
Once the law takes effect, people 
would be fined or thrown in jail if 
theyre caught transmitting smut and 
other indecent materials to minors 
over computer networks.
The Christian Coalition said this would 
help make the Internet, the global com
puter network, child-safe and familyfriendly.
But civil liberties and computer user 
groups vowed to fight the provision on 
constitutional grounds.
The bill would also give parents a 
powerful new tool: a computer chip in 
TV sets allowing them to keep violent, 
sexually oriented, or other objection
able shows off their screens.
However, the TV industry has prom
ised to fight the V-chip provision in 
court.
Besides Leahy, also voting no were 
Senators John McCain, R-Arizona; 
Russell Feingold, D-Wisconsin; Paul 
Simon, D-Illinois; and Paul Wellstone, 
D-Minnesota.
Not voting were Senators Phil 
Gramm, R-Texas; Christopher Dodd, 
D-Connecticut; and Jay Rockefeller, 
D-West Virginia. One Senate seat was 
vacant.
EOftf>ON lhBc sko H
given the Tm-not-the-person-to-talk-to line.
I just want to see easy access to recycling bins 
because people arent going to hunt for them, she 
lid.
Another concern Kurtz has is paper recycling on 
campus. Office paper recycling bins have been lim
ited to academic offices, because in the past contain
ers have gotten trashed with much contamination, 
and they pose a fire hazard.
Housing is responsible for their own recycling, 
Kviz said. However, that is not to say that housing is 
completely on their own. Kviz said that she is avail
able for support work and advice. She said that she 
has labels available for plastic recycling which hous
ing can place on bins. Once the labels are on bins, 
Kviz said that custodial services ought to take care of 
the plastic recycling.
I would suggest that housing only choose a couple 
of buildings as a test, Kviz said. If plastic recycling, 
which only began at CMU within this past year, 
works in the test dorms, Kviz said housing could
implement it throughout 
campus. The only restriction 
is that plastic recycling is 
only for beverage contain
ers [plastics marked with the 
numbers one or two].
Housing, however, has no 
intentions of recycling plas
tics anytime in the near fu
ture.
Pm hoping by fall to have 
a little more comprehen
sive, consistent program, 
said Tim Michael, director 
of university housing.
Michael said he does not 
want to start a program 
that is just going to fall 
through within a couple of years. We need to have 
a lot more student input ... to see on what levels 
students would participate, he said.
Michael said that he is also waiting to see what the
Recycling Liaisons working with 
Kviz and Schaeffer come up with. 
Were goingto try to make resi
dence halls consistent with what 
theyre doing campus-wide, he 
said.
Much of recycling and waste 
reduction at CMU seems now to 
fall under the influence of 
Schaeffer.
This spring and summer I 
will be working with Barb Kviz 
and recycling liaisons from 
across campus to develop and 
implement a new environmen
tal policy for the university. 
Our focus will be waste and 
source reduction and resource 
conservation, Schaeffer said.
Anyone with concerns or suggestions about any 
kind of potential waste production should email Tim 
Schaeffer at ts4y.
Dkahboe 19cBeuvikhwke !hw OSbwBh
g90Iar so9g1o, ySeiI
1/TF-N lhBc sko H
Because it is unclear if the University 
Center will indeed be called Skibo, we 
decided that the Skibo Coffeehouse would 
keep the tradition alive, said Michael. It 
will be similar to Scotland Yard, but the 
tone of the place will change a little bit. ' 
When asked what he thought of the; 
change, freshman ECE major Jonah 
Deitz said I sincerely dont think it; 
should be calledthe Skibo Coffee House. 
Freshman CS major Mike Strauss, when 
faced with the news, said Nod and smile.- 
I learned that long ago when discussirig 
any University decisions.
This feeling seemed to be popular* 
Sophomore industrial design/English 
double major Sameer Karim said, I 
like Scotland Yard, personally. 1 
think it has a history behind it... by 
changing the name, youre taking 
away that tradition.
Brian Mueller, junior ECE major' 
and Student Senate Funding and Rec
ognitions chair said he would simply 
prefer the name Scotland Yard. 
While the name Skibo will live on, the 
newer Scotland Yard will be lost in tl}e 
new University Center. There was al
ways a Skibo on campus, said Michael* 
Its a tradition.  The rest of the Univer
sity Center areas will be named accord
ing to the use of the rooms, including 
the ballroom and the gym areas. The 
Skibo Coffeehouse will be one of the 
few places on campus that will main
tain the tradition of the name.
ye99 doe9 mog,os 5togS5 gr va9,sge5e90 isogSvg5r vIs Ny 5attIsr
TET1N lhBc sko H
around, said Adams. He made many 
such attempts, most of them successful, 
to connect with the largely American 
audience.
He narrated the stoiy of how Pitts
burgh, once a town where Irish were 
unwelcome, eventually came to be known
the Belfast of this state. Saying that 
there are members of the British Es
tablishment who still think they own 
these United States, Adams highlighted 
Americas role in Ireland, saying that 
there wouldnt be a peace process if it 
wasnt for President Clinton. He urged
Americans to continue to take an active 
role in the peace process. We dont have 
the power to move [the British Estab
lishment], but you do, he said. Adams 
cited his trips to the United States as the 
reason why his persona non grata status 
in Great Britain was recently lifted.
While Adams was the key speaker, 
primarily, responsible for striking the 
chord of political fervor with the audi
ence, another important speaker was 
Mr. OMuilleiorwho spoke briefly before 
Mayor Murphy. His aim was to encour
age the audience, who had paid $100- 
per-head for the breakfast, to invest in
Northern Ireland, particularly in Belfast, 
which has suffered enormously due to 
years of internal strife.
The fastest way that Irish-Americans 
in America can help attain peace is by 
creating work, creating jobs in Belfast 
and other parts of the north. He urged 
the audience to make sure that their 
US dollars will go where they will make 
the greatest impact, where they will 
couple peace with prosperity, he said. 
As we build a peace, we also build an 
economic future.
But the political message was entirely 
in Adamsjurisdiction. While he accused
the British, in particular Prime Minis
ter John Major, of reneging on their 
commitment to continue talks, he 
stressed the need for reconciliation. I 
would never argue about forgetting the 
past  if we dont learn the lessons of 
history, that history will repeat itself. 
But we must also learn to forgive. We 
recognize the need for a healing pro
cess.
Adams extended this message to the 
historic struggle between Irelands Prot
estants and Catholics. I know that the 
Sinn Fein organization and I personally 
dont care one whit whether people are
Catholics, Protestants, or Pagans. 
Adams applauded the audience for j 
braving the cold Pittsburgh morning ; 
and making their donations. He said ; 
that those who would question such com-, ; 
mitment, dont understand the human 
desire for freedom, the human instinct 
for justice.
But while he condemned the British* 
governments insistence on regional elec-'!' 
tions before talks can continue, he ended 
on a message of unilateral hope. We are'/ 
going to do it. We  Americans, and 
Irish and British  are going to bring 
about peace for Ireland.
Crime and Incident Report
1/27 PARAPET VIOLA
TION, 3:41am. An officer was 
dispatched to the roof of 
Morewood Gardens B-tower af
ter a roof alarm was reported. 
The officer found three students 
on the roof. The students were 
identified and issued citations 
for parapet violations.
1/30 SUSPICIOUS PERSON, 
8:35pm. One of CMUs coaches 
returned to her office and found 
a six-foot male. She closed the 
door and asked the male what he 
doing. He stated that he was 
looking for a phone.
She asked him if he was a 
student, which he said he was, 
Jilt he was unable to produce 
an ID. At this point, the female 
oach grabbed the male in a 
Padlock and started to open 
;he door.
The suspect wrenched himself 
ee from her grasp and dove 
headfirst out of her open winjpw. Campus police responded 
and filed a report.
1/31 MEDICAL, 2:10pm. Sev!ral officers were sent to Highander Cafe after a report of a 
aculty member having chest 
Jains. The victim was given oxy>en and transported to West Penn 
hospital.
Low Student 
Faculty Fares
bewohekwbBekR SouwbekwbBeu 
T :bu2BLewoS SBcouwb2 lkhou 
!t & OLhkbR dkuuou
wptoseo9lo,c 
vseo9,mu 5os6eloY
4C0x .bewrhBs 1wI 
b (Bll 1I fhkb be -knRkeS)
1/31MEDICAL ,4:01pm. EMS 
and three officers responded to 
Highlander Cafe to aid a CMU 
employee suffering an allergic 
reaction.
Apparently, the employee had 
washed his hands with the High
lander soap. He then started to 
itch and break out in hives. The 
employee was taken to West Penn 
Hospital.
The Tartan prints the weekly 
Crime and Incident Report un
der the following guidelines:
Campus Police Chief James 
LaPaglia reviews all reports prior 
to release.
 Only three people on The Tar
tan staff see the reports: the Editor - 
in-Chief the News Editor, and the 
staffwriter who types the report.
9All personal names of complainants, victims, suspects, and 
fraternity names are omitted from 
the printed report. Ethnic descrip
tions and other personal details 
are given only in the context of a 
complete description.
Not every incident that occurs 
on campus appears in the report.
Compiled by 
RICK RIKOSKI
Clarifications...
In last weeks article Friends, faculty remember Resnik, 
we indicated that Resnik was a member of the last pledge 
class of AEPhi. There was actually one more pledge class 
after hers.
The Tartan corrects all known errors of fact. If you know of 
such an error, please contact Tartan Editor-in-ChiefKenneth J. 
Kraemer at 268-2111.
hRRW d-EiT!zQ H0
IMSm
WR:O!d1>b: TT
If you want to get away from it all this winter, Amtrak' is the way to go. Especially when you can save 15% off awesome getaways with the 
Student Advantage Card. Call 1-800-96-AMTRAK to get your card. And, take your pick of cool places, hot spots and hundreds of other 
colorful vacation destinations designed to take your mind off the winter blues. Pick your destination now and call your travel 
agent or Amtrak for reservations at 1-800-USA-RAIL. Winter getaway seats are limited so call today 
while the gettings good.
All prices are one way, based on round-trip coach fare with 15% Student Advantage Card discount. Fares are based on availability and are subject to change without notice. Seats are limited. 
Additional change for First Class or other accommodations. Other restrictions may apply.

---------------------------------------------------

FORUM
fkheobo WoRRBe Uebvohubw9p goahLkh9 HyyC
Career Center must 
offer more diversity
: Although this University has 
been recognized for its excellent 
programs in business, science, 
psychology, and architecture, the 
industry image of CMU contin
ues to be dominated by the pres
tige of the computer science and 
computer engineeringprograms. 
If the University is really trying 
to change this, then the adminis
tration and the Career Center 
need to try harder to attract a 
\yider variety of potential em
ployers to campus.
Recent job fairs have become 
njiore specialized, allowing 
H&SS, business majors, and oth
ers to seek out employment. How
ever, the driving force behind 
tjiese new job fairs have been 
student organizations and campjus departments, not the Career 
Center. These groups have real
ized that the initiative to change 
tjie schools image is not coming 
from the administration or the 
(Career Center, and that they 
Have to take up the slack.
j Career Week, sponsored by the 
Career Center, is a great step in 
the right direction. This years 
Career Week offers seminars on 
everything from resume writing 
tp career options for most depart
ments.
; However, amidst all the talks 
alnd advice, the Career Weeks 
only job fair is the Technology 
Jiob Fair, sponsored by the Pitts
burgh High Technology council. 
Thirty-five companies are sched
uled to participate in the job fair, 
bjut the list basically boils down 
to a handful of engineering firms 
thrown in with a heavy majority 
of computer software, systems, 
and networking companies. This
is a great opportunity for com
puter science majors, but what 
about everyone else?
Another big problem with the 
Career Center is that its facilities 
do not look befitting of a top uni
versity. What must be going 
through interviewers minds as 
they climb down to the basement 
of Warner Hall to conduct inter
views in one of a few cramped 
interview rooms? The entire setup 
of the office is chaotic and unor
ganized, and does nothing but 
add to an already stressful event 
 a job interview. The over
crowded, insufficient library/re
search room contributes to this 
poor atmosphere, and hardly al
lows the interviewee to maintain 
the proper professional mindset 
for the occasion.
The entire Career Center needs 
to be overhauled. The Career Cen
ter library is filled with outdated 
materials and random informa
tion. The Career Center is 
equipped to help with interviews 
and paperwork, but not to give 
you anything but a vague direc
tion in which to start. >
The Career Center is supposed 
to be able to help graduates in 
getting started with their careers, 
as well as help all students pursue 
summer internships and jobs.
But the Career Center is both 
ill-equipped and seemingly un
willing to give much more than a 
token effort to help non-CS ma
jors prepare their resumes. The 
Career Center and the adminis
tration need to take an active role 
in changing the Universitys im
age to reflect the quality of the 
programs and students enrolled 
here.
Hunt library, LIS need 
significant overhaul
Hunt library is a haven for the 
overtired and overworked. It is a 
place to meet friends, plan projects, 
aind use a Macintosh. However,
' the one thing it is difficult to do in 
Hunt Library is find books ad
equate for your needs, in fact the 
problems of the Hunt Library are 
riumerous.
 First, the LIS system is out
dated, slow, and unresponsive to 
the needs of the students. Sec
ond, the atmosphere of the occa
sionally dimly-lighted carrels and 
stacks, the tired curtains, and 
the general air of disrepair preva
lent in the library is not condu
cive to studying. Finally, the book 
collection is woefully outdated 
and meager, often driving stu
dents to the Carnegie and 
Hillman libraries.
The LIS system has not been 
Updated since the incorporation of 
a new system, Unicorn. Therefore, 
the LIS terminals are relatively 
useless if one is searching for re
cent volumes.
1 While the librarians are friendly 
and helpful, the lack of useful in
formation make a fact-finding trip 
to the Library difficult. Such infor
mation as checked-out status, date 
due back, current availability sta
tes  information given by most 
other library systems  are cur
rently impossible to find.
, A more vibrant and forceful dis
tribution, promotion, and educa
tion campaign for Unicorn or an 
updating of the LIS is necessary.
The library is not conducive to 
long-term studying or research 
the atmosphere is too poorly 
lighted. In addition, many books 
are not easy to find due to shifting 
that has been going on for the past 
year. LIS gives information onbook 
location, but when thebooks arent 
in their place, whats to be done?
Generally, the overall collection 
is inadequate for the needs of the 
average student; the library seems 
to be dedicated to the preservation 
of the late sixties. Efforts should 
be increased to update the stacks 
with a little more frequency. A 
University that touts itself as a 
cutting-edge research institution 
should maintain a library collec
tion capable of supplying basic, 
current research materials to its 
students. This would give people a 
reason to go to the library other 
than to read Newsweek.
Hunt Library seems to be get
ting older. While the circulation 
and information staff are friendly 
and helpful, the environment in 
which they work, including the 
collections, systems, and fixtures, 
leaves much to be desired.
On a campus with powerful in
formation systems, on-line data
bases, and heavy-duty computers, 
more than a nod should be given to 
the forebearer ofit all: the humble 
book.
Basis of web censorship unsound
Jonathon Betz
Friday, February 2, 1996, should be 
remembered as the day the Internet 
died. Last Friday, both the House and 
the Senate voted in favor of the highly 
restrictive Communications Decency Act 
of1995. The bill is expected to be signed 
into law by President Clinton.
The bill, originally proposed by Sen. 
James Exon (R-Neb.), covers all types of 
telecommunications, and places vague 
restrictions on content, using a poorly 
defined standard of decency. Further
more. the bill makes use of the commu
nity standards test, established in the 
decision of Miller v. California, a 1973 
Supreme Court case, although recent 
court cases have shown that the commu
nity standards test breaks down when
applied to materials available through 
contemporary telecommunications me
dia. Because it is possible for informa
tion, including obscene pictures, to be 
quickly transmitted around the world 
through the Internet, the community 
standards test is difficult to apply with 
todays technology. The weakness in the 
community standards principle became 
clear last year when the system opera
tors of a BBS in California were charged 
for violating Memphis, Tennessee inde
cency standards, after a Memphis postal 
inspector downloaded images from their 
service.
This most recent action is only further 
proof that Congress lacks any true un
derstanding of the First Amendment 
issues raised by new technology, such as 
the Internet. Instead of trying to ana
lyze new technology and the issues 
raised, Congress continues to develop 
laws in the mindset of classical commu
nications media.
Further, the Congressional Decency
Act shows how little Congress under
stands developments such as the World 
Wide Web. The bill would create a crime 
of access, in which making controversial 
material available to an audience possi
bly including minors is legally equated 
to intentionally sending such material 
to minors. According to the Electronic 
Frontier Foundation, such material 
could include an on-line version of the 
King James Bible, a Schindlers List 
WWW site, and reproductions of paint
ings from the Sistine Chapel.
In the last week, the world has seen 
the approval of legislation which, if en
forced, will effectively cripple the 
Internet.
When our children wonder why the 
Internet is the electronic equivalent of 
white bread, tell them you remember 
the day the Internet died.
Jonathon Betz is a freshman CS ma
jor. He welcomes any responsible replies 
to his column.
State of the Union contains untruths
James Stepanek
While I am quite 
sure that everyone 
made sure to watch 
the Superbowl, I 
have to ask how 
many of you saw 
the State of the
Union address. Knowing CMU students, not many. Now I 
myself am not inclined to watch Clinton give speeches, simply 
because all the lies and half-truths usually irritate me to a 
great degree. This time, however, I was talked into sitting 
through it.
Now, whats the point of this column? Well, Im going to use 
it to do a little berating of Clinton and to show how great the 
effect of the Republican takeover of Congress has been. Its 
rather amazing to see how the topics of the speech shame
lessly illustrate how Clinton is trying to parrot the GOP 
agenda.
For those who didnt listen, the speech sounded, to a large 
extent, like a Republicans speech. It was big on subjects like 
reducing government size, welfare reform, and promoting 
families. This same speech could have been used to run 
against Clinton back in 1992. Of course, it was also a touch 
duplicitous.
Clinton talked a long while on how his administration was 
working hard to reduce the size of government. Sorry, but this 
has to be one of the most crass political statements Ive heard 
in years. This is the man who invented the Americorps, a 
program which has the government paying for volunteertype jobs; suggested a government take-over of the healthcare 
system; and has tried to have the government take over the 
majority of student loans. This is a man who has never met a 
government program he didnt like, and hes trumpeting that 
hes slimming down the government. In the case of a normal 
person Id ask, Has he no shame?, but I already know the 
answer.
He even made the claim that there were at present fewer 
federal employees now than in the last 20 years. His state
ment implies that his administration has been paring back on 
bureaucrats. Sorry, but thats not the case.
Essentially, the only aspect of federal employment to shrink 
under Clinton has been the military. (There have been a few 
other places reduced, but only token ones.) In fact, most 
agencies have grown. The unwise excessive downsizing of the 
military has allowed him to make this misleading claim. 
Mind you, this downsizing is in the face of an expansion of 
responsibilities into U.N. peacekeeping operations. Further, 
the agencies that have been cut during this administration 
are the responsibility of a Republican controlled Congress 
rather than any act or suggestion by Clinton.
Clinton also called for bipartisan welfare reform. This is
ironic because he vetoed a welfare reform bill that contained 
most of the proposals which he stated were important. The 
bill, after getting through the House/Senate conference, was, 
actually quite similar to the bill that was passed in the Senate 
with more than 80 votes and that had been lauded by Clinton. 
If it had 80+ votes, it had to be bipartisan. Another thing to 
note is that he vetoed the bill late in the evening with no 
fanfare, as if to deliberately avoid attention. So, as with much 
of the rest of his speech, the call for welfare reform is the same 
hollow promise that weve come to expect from him and his 
administration.
The only thing that was true to form and didnt make him 
sound like a conservative was a rant about gun control. He 
couldnt resist praising his gun control triumphs. Ha! He 
lauded the Brady Bill and all the good it has done. He 
mentioned that it prevented 40,000 firearm purchases (note-! 
he didnt mention out of how many.) The total number of-' 
felons affected by the Brady Bill was about ten percent of that 
number. This is not a very significant number, considering 
the cost of doing background checks by hand. You may 
suggest that this is a good thing nonetheless, but if you knew 
that the Brady Law was passed instead of an instant elec
tronic background check which wouldnt tie up the resources 
of local law enforcement under a federal mandate, you might' 
want to reconsider.
He further raved about the great success of the Assault 
Weapon Ban. Well, considering that it was a ban on a guns 
appearance, most gun manufacturers have simply removed 
the offending aesthetic problems and resumed selling rifles 
which are functionally equivalent to what existed before. The 
fact that the banned guns were never a problem before the 
ban didnt enter into Clintons consideration when he men
tioned that the law prevented gangs from using such weap
ons.
The really amazing part of the speech was how he had the 
gall to laud the goal of shrinking the government in the 
beginning of his speech then to propose even more govern
ment involvement towards the end. He talked about more 
government involvement in job training, child care, educa
tion, and all other manner of things.
Cant he realize that people are sick of an intrusive govern
ment?
The important thing to note, however, was that the whole 
speech, which while constructed under a conservative facade, 
was still vintage Clinton. It waffled, it avoided the truth, it 
was rife with emotional appeals and outright evasions. The 
chessboard may have changed, but the pieces are the same. 
We are merely seeing the same old Clinton with just yet, 
another face.
James Stepanek is a PhD student in MCS.Writer examines socially-handicapped
Jason Ermer
There are a lot of things about this 
school that really bother me, and I dont 
think for a second that Im the only one 
with a few gripes. Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity is an outstanding academic insti
tution, but it certainly has its flaws, not 
the least of which is the parade of human 
debris we call the student body. So please 
excuse me if my article this week doesnt 
tackle any of the social problems of the 
day, solve the budget dispute, compare the 
Salem Witch trials to the Holocaust, or 
talk about my Monopoly playing exploits 
over the winter vacation. Im going to give 
you the first installment of Jason Ermers 
Loser Watchers Handbook and talk about 
people I hate.
We all come from different back
grounds, different upbringings, differ
ent communities around the world; 
were all different people. Thats what 
makes life interesting and makes the 
world such a fascinating, surprising, 
and confusing place to live in. But you 
know, there are some people who take 
their individuality way too far, cross
ing that fine line between being an 
individual and being a freak. These are 
the people Im talking about today.
Let me first say, however, that I hope 
readers dont think that Im regressing 
into a juvenile (if well thought out) 
round of elementary school playground 
name-calling. Im just pointing out that 
although being an individual is of the 
utmost importance, and not something 
that anyone should compromise, when 
taken to the extreme it becomes more a 
flailing attempt to be noticed than any
thing else. I dont care who you are,
dying your hair green is in no way a form. 
of self expression; its simply a cry for1 
attention. Secondly, Im not a journalist:. 
This is an editorial column. I am not a 
misanthrope: This is my opinion of one  
of the things on this campus that really  
hacks me off. To paraphrase Florence  
King, from her Wall Street Journal ar-; 
tide about Ambrose Bierce, a vitriolic; 
American editorialist and author from; 
the Civil War era: Im going to have i 
ball, and Im also going to try to have ] 
what todays editorial writers lack: two. j 
This week's entry in to the Loser; 
Watchers Handbook discusses those: 
people on campus that we have all had to; 
deal with at least on a superficial level. [ 
Let me define my terms first. According 
to my personal taxonomy of the students | 
here at CMU, people fall into one of four  
categories. Regulars are just like they i 
sound, regular everyday people.
dRokuo uoo tDTOzON sko 7

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 19965
Tnm Mapne
Weather proves too harsh for dedicated columnist
Tom Harper
The recent deluge of rains in 
this area hit us hard. Back where 
I live, a lot of houses got severely 
flooded. My own house was hit 
but no damage was done, and a 
Shop Vac took care of the water.
Here, however, the rains left a 
huge wake. It wasnt so much as 
damage, though. It was mud. It 
was all over the sidewalks. The 
Cut was comparable to wetlands. 
The University Center construc
tion site was a ghastly formation 
 a temple of brick awash in a 
ring of mud.
hk
While I was on my way to class, 
lunch, and indeed everywhere on 
this campus, I would always have 
to leap over puddles of dented 
mud on the sidewalk. The most 
noticeable one was just by the 
pathway to the Student Center 
parking lot. Traffic on the side
walk would slow to a crawl while 
students would attempt to broad 
jump farther than Bob Beamon 
at the Mexico City Olympics over 
this puddle.
I noticed students had various 
ways of jumping over this un
gainly hurdle.
First, there is the Power Leap. 
Either one foot or both feet are 
used to propel the student not 
only over the puddle but as far 
away as possible. This was my
method of choice for clearing the success at avoiding mud is a 
body of water of choice. simple glance at his or her shoes.
Next, there is 
the Graceful 
Swan Leap Like 
a ballet dancer, 
the student uti
lizing this ma
neuver would 
just push off 
with one foot, 
getting very 
little altitude 
but enough dis
tance to clear the 
puddle. >bz WBhkevikhwke !hw 1wkll
Then, there is the Oh Shit stats,
Jump.
This is any jump that failed to 
clear said puddle.
A sure indication of a students
Mine have 
taken a beat
ing, not just 
from puddles or 
puddle spray, 
but the thin 
layer of mud on 
the sidewalks 
all over cam
pus. A couple 
times I swear I 
almost hydro
planed on it on 
my way to
My shoes also have a film of 
white on them thanks to the 
mines worth of salt that was 
dumped all over the place.
I know that if someone slips 
and falls because of a slick spo, 
my tuition dollars would go to
ward the court system. But I still 
see salt on the sidewalks and the 
salt and mud track in to various 
halls and make one ungainly dan
gerous mess. In Donner this is 
most prevalent where the salt 
covers almost every square inch 
of floor by mid-evening.
I cant wait until we get sun on 
a regular basis, but then wed 
disappoint many salt tycoons.
If they get mad, Ill track salt 
and mud over their office floors.
Tom Harper is a junior techni
cal writing major who has set the 
Tartan record for use of the word 
"ungainly in one column.
Environmental activism aimed at impeding progess
Jon Orris
This will be my last article specifically 
on environmentalism for some time, al
though there are still several concrete 
issues I could raise. I have commented 
briefly on the philosophical underpin
nings of the environmental movement 
in my past articles. I would like to ad
dress that issue in more detail now.
The philosophical idea underlying en
vironmentalism is the idea of intrinsic 
value; that is, the idea that something is 
1 in and of itself, irrespective of 
anyones evaluation. In the case of na
ture, this means that pristine wilder
ness is a value, irrespective of its contri
bution or detriment to human life.
What guidance can it give to mans 
actions in affecting the environment? 
The only answer can be that since na
ture is a value in and of itself, anything 
that man does to alter nature is the 
destruction of value, and thus evil. This 
is in fact how this idea has been applied
in reality. The policy of the environmen
talists and their government friends is, 
and has always been, in any conflict be
tween man and nature, mans needs lose 
out.
Mans means of survival is not claws, 
horns, or great strength, but his mind. 
The use of reason is necessary for man to 
live. To survive, he must work to alter his 
environment to provide for his needs. To 
stand against the workings of a mans 
mind is to violate his capacity to live.
Enivronmentalists offer a man nothing 
to compensate the sacrifice he is forced, 
against every rational consideration of 
his mind, to make but the knowledge that 
for his sacrifice, an endangered rat might 
live in peace, or some bit of desolate wil
derness might remain untouched by a 
productive mind. And if that fails to con
vince, as it would for anyone who desires 
to live, their final argument is a gun.
I have given numerous examples in my 
columns of how environmentalists have 
repeatedly demanded the sacrifice of com
fort, rights, and health in order that na
ture remain pristine. I would ask you to 
take a close look at your own life and ask 
yourself, how has this affected me?
Worried about paying your heating bill
this winter? Worried about a blackout in the 
middle of a 110-degree heat wave next summet? Environmentalists have been system
atically destroying the power industry for 
decades, in every way possible, from de
manding that vast quantities of oil remain 
untouched because they lie under a barren 
wilderness, to their insane campaign against 
the cleanest, safest, and cheapest form of 
power known to man: nuclear power.
Worried about keeping your job, or just 
getting one? The costs imposed by irrational 
environmental regulations equal or exceed 
the amount of money already siphoned out 
of the economy by confiscatory taxation, 
money that could have gone into increased 
expansion and production that would have 
meant prosperity for you.
Want to farm, develop, or even use that 
piece of property you bought or inherited? 
Better not have any sort of standing water 
at any time of the year. You could lose tens 
of thousands of dollars, maybe even spend 
time in jail.
Ask yourself, Why should I make these 
sacrifices? For what reason are they de
manded of me? And by what right do they 
demand it?
The environmentalists, despite their pro
testations about preserving nature or pro
tecting your health, are motivated by ha
tred of human values, of production, free
dom, happiness, and thus a hatred for life 
itself.
Environmentalism is a philosophicallybankrupt, nihilistic movement that is out 
to destroy life as we know it for no other 
reason than seeing the destruction. To 
combat it, more important than educating 
yourself on the facts, is to stop sanctioning 
the environmentalist movement in any 
way whatsoever. There are many people 
of good intent, who seek to address what 
might be legitimate problems by allying 
themselves with the environmental move
ment. If you are among them, you must 
stop. To put it bluntly, this is exactly how 
the Nazis and the Communists were able 
to gain power and achieve their slaughter. 
It was the aid of people who kept saying, 
"Aw, they don't mean it," or "Well, I'll ally 
myself with them just for this one little 
thing," that enabled them to succeed. The 
philosophical basis of environmentalism 
is the same, and so will be the results if 
their ideas are implemented fully in real
ity.
Jon Orris is a fourth-year physics ma
jor. This is his final column in a series.
Derek Robinson
Presidential elections place voters in precarious positions
Once again, the political zeal of 
the season fills the air in which 
we breathe. Issues are tossed 
around like hot potatoes, never 
getting the consideration they 
deserve.
What looks like the clear-cut 
choice one day is off-limits the 
next; much like Bob Dole with his 
luke-warm response to the re
cent State of the Union address. 
But, amid all the political frenzy, 
one must take a step back to 
recognize which issues actually 
deserve attention, and which are 
just of political interest (in getings 
ones self re-elected.)
Many issues revolve in the 
medias spotlight: balancing the 
budget, welfare reform, the flat 
tax rate, etc.
These are very important is
sues, and each candidates future
(not to mention the countrys as 
well) depends on them. Butmany 
times the political/media main
stream can become choked with 
many side issues, either ac
cidently or intentionally, 
that detract from the effec
tiveness of their consider
ation.
An excellent example of 
this point can be illustrated 
with Steve Forbes.
Forbes, known and re
spected multimillionare and 
publisher of Fortune and 
Forbes Magazine, has re
cently attempted to enter the 
political arena.
His has two distinctive ad
vantages: the ability to 
critisize Washington that 
only an outsider could have, 
and the novelty of his proposedflattax. He has jumped 
to the number two position on the 
Republican ballot, and will prob
ably end up doing better then the 
waggish Ross Perot of last elec
tion.
Forbes believes strongly in supply-side economics, a flat tax, and 
straight politics. If someone asked 
Forbess strengths as a candidate,
>bz WBhkevikhwke !hw 1wkll
this what I would say. back
However, as usual, many igno
rant questions are brought up, 
designed to distract away from 
Forbess validity.
Two of Forbess opponents for
the Republican ballot are Bob 
Dole and the bumbling Phil 
Gramm.
In an attempt to attack his in
tegrity, they released their 
(supposedly) clean incometax returns from past years.
Forbes recognized the di
version for what it was, and 
refused to release his re
turns.
They called him weak on 
gays in the military. I per
sonally dont consider this 
an important issue, espe
cially when compared with 
other urgent issues were 
facing today.
But not to Dole and 
Gramm. The political 
muckraking delves deeper. 
The Forbess family was 
blackmailed several years 
over allegations that 
Forbess father had some homo
sexual tendencies.
The GOP front-runners linked 
this to his moderate position on 
gays in the military. This is a
classic example of political diver
sion activities: apply outdated in
formation to an irrelevent issue.
Steve Forbes illustrates these 
problems so well because, so far 
at least, he has resisted them. 
Whether he gets elected or not is 
another issue. Steve Forbes is 
just another piece in the massive 
game of politics.
He has several good ideas, and 
is probably equal in credentials 
to Dole and Gramm.
The GOP, on the other hand, 
has fair chances with Clinton as 
well, even though he is currenlty 
leading the polls.
It is up to the individual though, 
to recognize important issues 
from issues designed to distract. 
Hopefully the trend of reforming 
government will stick long past 
the 1996s upcoming presidential 
election.
Derek Robinson is an undecided 
freshman in H&SS. He welcomes 
any responsible replies to this or 
any other column.
With concerns about safety 
and well-being filling the 
Media, we decided to root out 
some local havens of peace 
and protection. We asked: 
Where is the safest place 
n campus?
Hobbes Deutsch
Sophomore
Psychology
Scotland Yard. Theres good 
atmosphere, good music, nice 
people, and Escort is available 
outside.
Leland Weiss
Freshman
CivE
The police station. There are 
a bunch of security guys around 
there all the time.
Kathryn Hoover 
Junior
LCS/Proffesional Writing
My off-campus apartment.
David Rollins 
Sophomore 
Industrial Design
At the fence. You can be seen 
by everybody under the bright 
lights of Doherty Hall.
A PERSONS
OPINION
'bc 1e9Sohv:khnhBBc Wkekoh
THE TARTAN
fkcoRo WoWBe'u 1wLSoew zoJusksoh 
1be2o Hy0C
OSI-be-frbolII /oeeowr 'I /hkocoh 
Wkekbe OSI !eShoJ W2:ohcBww
FLubeouu WkekohIIIIIIIIIlRcbw /kh
!2wbezoJu fB-OSI WkwwroJ1BRbwhB 
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIFo2n9 !IfBJuoh
gBhLc OSbwBhIIIIIIIIIIIIII'Bre Fbu
1sBhwu OSbwBhIIIIIIIIIIIdkLR FBBwro
gokwLhou fB-OSbwBhuIIE9ke ErBkSu
IIIIIIIIIIIII1rkhcbRk VoenkwkuLaake
:bvohubBeu OSbwBhIIIIIIIIIIOek /rke
:Buuboh :ueI OSuIFhB2noww Bheo
IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'oeebloh ZbouohR
:Buuboh >bwI OS I II /ovbe Woorke
!hw OSbwBhIIIIIIIIIIIDkahboe 19cBeu
drBwB OSbwBhIIIII'kuBe 1booeSBhl
dhBSL2wbBe WhIObbzkaowr zoLcke 
!Svohwbube Wkekoh frbewke 1rkr
19uwocu WkekohIIIIIIIIIIIH-dbe >b
!2wbe fBs9 WhIII .bewoh WkuBe 
!uuwI :bvohubBeu OSI I I 'k9 WRBRRk
!uuwIdhBSL2wbBeWhIIIII'oeebloh >b
:khnhBBc WkekohIIII 'bc 1e9Soh 
dohuBeeoR WhIIIIIIIIIIIOhb2 1kRzcke
fBewhbaLwbe OSbwBhu 
ghke2beo DocsohRoN 1rkeeBe 
Dbaeo9N >kLhoe obezN /kwr9 >bL
1oebBh 1wkll 
DbR !RwohBvbwzN 'kuBe !eShk2nbN 
Wkww FkRRN :khhoe frbkssowwk
1wkllJhbwohu 
EkrLR !khJkRN !caoh FoeozhkNN 
tBuol FbcaBbcN frhbu fkeeBeNN 
1wovo frkheBLabN fkho9fRovoeohN 
ihb2bk :kvbuN 1rbv :oJkeN zobR 
:BeeoR9N 'kuBe OhcohN :ke 
DBRSJkuuohN !eL] DLswkN iBc 
khsohN 'kuBe obeRoReN !Skc 
/RbvkeuN :kvbS /BhkeN .RkSbcbh 
>kaobnBvun9N !Rox >oJbeN !shbR fI 
WBkwoN !eoRk WBRRB9N :bzz9 
WLhsr9N 1Lzkeeo dkSSB2nN 1LSrbh 
EoSS9N Eb2n EbnBunRN :ke 
EBuoeaohN Eb2n 1bccBeuN 'kcou 
1woskeonN 'ouub2k 1whoRbwzN 'kuBe 
iB9ohN FbRR VkeSocekhnN :kJe 
.kRRrkLuoeN !eShoJ .keN 1Luke 
.kwuBeN FhkSRo9 Zbccohcke
!hw
Wkhn OohwN >bz WBhke
fBcb2u
zb2n fku2bkwB 'hIN bhBcb 
kuokJkN 1rkJe fI /ebrwN :kvo 
.rbwoN :keboR tkLoh
drBwB
'khBuRkv :oRksoShkjkN 'Bur ghoo
ckeN DLuwkvB 1kezohRkN Wkhbk 
VkRoewbN tLzB .kwkekao
:khnhBBc 
ORbku gkRRBeN 12Bww ouuN oRoe 
LkeN fkhRk 1ohoe9
fBs9
>Bhb FBJouN Eoeoo fkhSoRRbN Wbcb 
froeN TvBh fRkhnoN WkSrkv 
DrkewkN :I Eoeoo kbhuwBeN oR
oek W2DkrkkeN Vb2wBh -hwokN 
fkwrohbeo 1oeSohRbeN WI 'I .bR
uBeN ORbzkaowr ZkcaoRRR
FLubeouu 
dkwhb2bk :bDbLuossT
'LebBh 1wkll 
:bkek FkhwBRBwwkN 'Be Fowzh 
!eeockhbo :ovbeoN E9ke :BeBvkeN 
gI fBRw gBLwzN !Rvbe DkvbeNN 
!RoxkeShk DhLeSockeN 1wosroe 
uLN .bRR TuoerBLhN !eLnLR /ksBBhN 
kejk9 /bcN :bkek >kRBhN ihovBh 
Wo9ohJbwzN >bz WBhkeN :bzz9 
WLhsr9N :ohon EBabeuBeN EBekn 
1RerkRN ZLRonrk 1soe2ohN Wber 
ihkeN 'LRoo .rbwoN !Skc Vbe2oew
iro ikhwke bu wro uwLSoew eoJusksoh Bl fkheobo WoRRBe Uebvohubw9I Tw bu k JoonR9 eoJusksoh sLaRburoS a9 uwLSoewu SLhbe wro lkRR keS ushbeN uocouwohuN kw eB 2Buw wB cocaohu Bl wro 
Uebvohubw9 2BccLebw9I Tw bu shbewoS a9 .ouwoheI doeeu9Rvkebk dhbewbeN Te2I 1Lau2hbswbBeu kho 
kvkbRkaRo lBh wro uocouwoh Bh k2kSocb2 9okhIiro oSbwBhbkRu kssokhbe kw wro aobeebe Bl wro BsbebBe uo2wbBe kho wro Bllb2bkR BsbebBe Bl iro 
ikhwke oSbwBhbkR aBkhSI fBRLceu keS sBRbwb2kR 2khwBBeu kho wro BsbebBeu Bl beSbvbSLkR 2hokwBhuI iro ikhwke houohvou wro hbrw wB hojo2w Bh 
2BeSoeuo ke9 2BRLce Bh sBRbwb2kR 2khwBBeI >owwohu wB wro OSbwBh kho BsbebBeu Bl kLwrBhu JrB kho LuLkRR9N aLw eBw eo2ouukhbR9N cocaohu Bl 
wro Uebvohubw9 2BccLebw9I ! Rowwoh bewoeSoS lBh sLaRb2kwbBe cLuw ao ubeoS keS be2RLSo wro 
Jhbwoh'u kSShouu keS srBeo eLcaoh lBh vohblb2kwbBeI zkcou ck9 ao JbwrroRS LsBe hoqLouwI iro ikhwke hoqLouwu wrkw Rowwohu ao eB RBeoh wrke p00 JBhSuI iro ikhwke houohvou wro hbrw wB 
2BeSoeuo Bh hojo2w ke9 RowwohI fBs9hbrw  HyyC 
a9 iro ikhwkeI iro ikhwke oSbwBhbkR aBkhS houohvou wro hbrw wB JbwrrBRS lhBc sLaRb2kwbBe ke9 2Bs9 bw Soocu Lelbw lBh sLaRb2kwbBeI-llb2o: 1wLSoew foewoh EBBc H04 
drBeo: 4H2v2Cx-2HHH 
WkbRbe kSShouu: iro ikhwkevFBx H7vfkheobo WoRRBe Uebvohubw9vdbwwuaLhrN d! Hp2Hm-mxy0 gLeSoS be skhw a9 9BLh !2wbvbwbou gooI
!RR hbrwu houohvoSI>bahkh9 Bl fBehouu T11z U:0xy0-mH07I
iro ikhwke bu k cocaoh Bl wro !uuB2bkwoS dhouuI

---------------------------------------------------

Jonny Gammage
.
!eS wro gbrw !kbeuw dBRb2o FhLwkRbw9
An Action Oriented Conference
Saturday, February 10  1:00pm - 6:45pm 
Gregg Hall (Porter Hall 100)  CMU
Featuring:
2:30pm  Gregg Hall
Opening Remarks and Keynote Speakers 
City Council Member Sala Udin 
Khalid Raheem of the Million Man March Committee 
and Eyewitness Accounts of Police Brutality
5:00pm
Workshops on:
Combating Police Brutality 
Constitutional Rights 
Political Repression and the Police 
Racism and Police Brutality
Workshop Speakers Include:
Lorenzo Kom9boa Ervin (activist from Atlanta, GA)
Billy Hileman (CRY GUT!/ACT-UP)
Vic Walczak (ACLU)
Jamila Levi (Western Pennsylvania Committee 
to free Mumia Abu-Jamal)
Cecilia Ortega (Mark Curtis Case National 
Committee)
Islimae! ElAmin (Coalition of African-Americans 
for Justice)
5:00pm  Gregg Hall
The Poetry of B-Tree
5:30pm6:45pm  Gregg
Reports from Workshops, Keynote Address by Longtime Activist from Atlanta, 
Lorenzo Komboa Ervin, and Closing Remarks
Sponsored By:
The CMU Political Speakers Forum Board, CMU H&SS Political Speakers Forum, ACLU of Pittsburgh, Alliance for Progressive Action, Amnesty International  Univ. Of 
Pittsburgh Chapter of the Western Pennsylvania Committee to free Mumia Abu-Jamal, Coalition of African-Americans for Justice, CRY OUTI/ACT UP, Libertarian Party of 
Pittsburgh, National Coalition on Police Accountability, National Lawyers Guild  University of Pittsburgh Branch, Pittburgh Coalition Against Police Abuse, Pittsburgh Socialist 
Alliance, Socialist Workers Party, Western Pennsylvania Committee to free Mumia Abu-Jamal, and the Young Socialists
For more information, contact http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~pshell/gammage/flyer.html or call 521-7966
Clair Cohen (Campaign for a New Tomorrow) 
Paul Gettleman (criminal defense attorney) 
Mike Golman (Libertarian Party)
Rich Matesic (attorney)
Traci Castro
Malcom Jarrett (Young Socialists)
Stevenson Bey (father of Maneia Stoney Bey) 
Connie Wellons (former member, Pittsburgh 
Commission on Human Rights)
1:00pm
3:00pm
T

---------------------------------------------------

P
The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 1996
Columnist explains classification of unhygienic students
tDTOzON lhBc sko 4 
English majors are usually 
regulars. Geeks are regulars who 
have some sort of facility with 
computers. I study CS here; Im a 
geek. Most CS and ECE people 
are not geeks; theyre dorks. 
Dorks are geeks without social 
skills. Tools are regulars without 
social skills. Most of the people 
sitting outside the Beehive are 
tools. Nerd is an 80s word that 
nobody uses anymore. In addi
tion, I have coined the term Fedo
ras to indicate the people who 
wear the hats. Theyre Usually
dorks ortools, but they wear those 
Humphrey Bogart/Panama Jack 
hats. Some people say, Wait, Im 
a regular, but I like those hats. 
Theyre wrong. If you think youre 
a regular, and you wear the hat, 
youre a tool.
Having cleared up any kind of 
ambiguous vocabulary, the sub
set of the university population 
Im targeting this week is the 
dorks. Its their Up yours, you 
predators of the social food chain! 
You cant steal my lunch money 
any more! Youll never lock me in 
a locker again, you bastards! Ive
found my peers! Im an empow
ered individual! Somebody finally 
likes me! attitude that just 
makes me nauseous. Its a kind of 
extraverted introvertedness. 
That might sound oxymoronic, 
but its a term I use to describe 
the attempts at conversation, and 
more often humor (and I use that 
term loosely) that fail simply be
cause these people, the extra
verted introverts, dont have any 
measurable communication 
skills. Theyre trying to be what 
they arent: personable. It comes 
off as a constant need to try to
impress me. After years of hav
ing been beaten up emotionally 
and physically by the entire high 
school football team, they come 
to CMU and its like a damn Star 
Trek convention. They blossom, 
or rather mutate, into the fedorawearing, walking-stick-toting, 
cape-draped, Jean-Luc-worshipping, Magic-card-playing indi
viduals who we have all come to 
know. Or at least smell. And in 
some more severe cases, stick to.
They have found each other, 
and in doing so they have found 
themselves. But now theyre try
ing to outdo one another, much to 
my dismay, and I cant imagine 
its just me. Youve seen the games 
they play: How greasy can I get 
my hair? How far and wide can I 
disseminate my stink? How dis
gusting can I get my beard? Ill 
bet I have an uglier date than you 
do! Theyre competing with each 
other for attention, and doing so 
in public areas. And I guess thats 
what bugs me the most.
So no more stuffed animals, no 
more public displays of affection 
between the Elephant Man and 
his girlfriend Sasquatch in the
hallways of Doherty every morn
ing while Im on my way to statis
tics, no more aviator helmets, nc 
more Vulcan greetings or speak-' 
ing in Klingon, no more being 
able to smell the Wean Hall com-j 
puter clusters from Schenleyf 
Park, and for Gods sake, no mor^ 
trying to play off your lack of 
personality as a sense of humor J
Thats all I ask.
Jason Ermer is a junior com-( 
puter science major. He welcomes 
any responsible replies to his ar-\ 
ticle.
University shows poor taste in Challenger commemoration
Diana Lalor
Last Monday, people on campus 
distributed flyers accompanied by 
carnations. The printed sheets de
manded that we remember the Chal
lenger, and the flowers were a symbol 
of this commemmoration. The sight 
of those printed words shocked me 
into recollecting a time and a place 
that had been lost in the deeper re
cesses of my memory. Time is not 
easy for the mind to measure or com
prehend, but the flyer told me that it 
had been ten years since the Chal
lenger exploded high over its launch 
pad.
Because of a paper that was placed 
in my hands on the way to class, my 
mind involuntarily went to work re
calling my third-grade teacher, Mr. 
Blum, who had two favorite subjects: 
science and math. He conveyed his 
love and appreciation of these sub
jects in many ways throughout the 
year. One way was through the study 
and hatching of duck eggs; the other 
was in reserving a television, days in 
advance, in order to watch the
Challengers takeoff, so that his class 
could witness mans early and impres
sive exploration of outer space. On Janu
ary 29,1986,1 sat on a tiny chair in front 
of a television in my third-grade class
room, watching and waiting for the 
Challengers takeoff.
I was initially indifferent towards the 
entire event. Of course, I wanted to see 
the Challenger take off, but I didnt want 
to wade through the filler. I was impa
tient while the commentators gave their 
opinions; while the neverending clips of Christa 
McAuliffes training pro
gram were played. Finally, 
afterlwascertainit would 
never happen, countdown 
began, the smoke rolled 
and boiled, and the craft 
took off. The class watched 
with a sense of wonder.
Mr. Blum, whod been 
bouncing off the walls in 
his anticipation, stood still in silence. 
The camera didnt provide the close-up 
view I was hoping for, but I looked on, 
wondering what it must feel like to go up 
into space. Maybe, someday... I pon
dered. All of a sudden, a large wormlike 
cloud skidded across the sky.
Mr. Blum looked on as intently as 
before, as though the clouds image had 
not registered in his mind. The news
reporters were, for the first time ever, at 
a loss for words. It took a few moments 
to realize what had happened. After the 
picture had burnt into my teachers 
memory, he ran out into the hall and 
grabbed the nearest coworker in order to 
relate what had happened. Words failed 
him, however.
What had happened?
No one knew. The reporters eventu
ally regained their composure, and more 
clips of the teacher/astronaut were
"Patriotic tablecloths, ice cream and 
cake seem to be an overly celebratory 
method of remembering [the disaster.] If 
there were to be tablecloths, they should 
have been black.
shown. See ya later, alligator, she 
waved to her young son, as she climbed 
into a car that would take her, where?
They did not know yet, but they would 
relay the information to us as soon as 
they received it.
I had never seen a liftoff before, and I 
initially thought the craft was supposed 
to look that way when it left Earths 
atmosphere.
I figured it was just another one of 
those strange grown-up things I didnt 
understand.
In reality, the Challenger wasnt sup
posed to turn into a white worm skid
ding across the sky, but I was right in 
thinking it was a strange grown-up thing. 
I dont think Ill ever understand it, even 
after the press and NASA tried to ex
plain it in detail.
It was a faulty seal that went to work 
in poor weather. Neither condition
_____________________ should have been
put to the test.
The flyers dis
tributed on cam
pus 10 years after 
the incident ad
vertised com
memorative din
ners at High
lander and
____i_________________ Pipers Cafe, and
a memorial 
candlelight vigil to be held at Gesling 
Stadium. I ate at Highlander that night, 
and took note of the red, white, and blue 
tablecloths.
There was also a dessert table set up 
for the occasion. Although they didnt 
have it, I was almost expecting pitchers 
of Tang to be set out and astronaut ice 
cream in its foil packing.
The fate of the seven astronauts aboard
the Challenger on that day is one that 
should belong to no one.
Their families still suffer from what 
was taken from them on that day, and 
from the publicity given to their losses. 
It is an acceptable thing to remember 
that day with dinners and vigils.
It hits closer to home when one 
recalls that an alumna of Carnegie 
Mellon was aboard the craft on that 
day. One of our best and brightest 
students was lost in the disaster.
At the same time, patriotic table
cloths, ice cream and cake seem to be 
an overly celebratory method of re
membrance. If there were to be table
cloths, they should have been black.
The government-run operation that 
sent them up does not deserve to have 
its colors decorously splashed about 
our cafeterias.
Cake is not the proper food for the 
commemoration of the loss of human 
life. If the purpose was to remember, 
then that is what should have been 
done. There was no need for celebra
tion.
Diana Lalor is an undeclared fresh
man in H&SS. However, she hopes to 
find a major soon, and is on the look
out for a good one.
She welcomes any responsible re
plies to her column.
De'fiv-erin 'TheP&djet Pizza/
-knRkeSv1rkS9ubSo 
44m FkLc FRvSI 
(eokh zBhwr fhkb)
zBJ rbhbeq SoRbvoh9 soBsRoI682-7272
d!d! N.o k22osw VbukvWkuwoh2khS
"T
IOne 16" Extra 
Large One Topping j
Two 14" Large 
One Topping
T------------------------T----------------------------i
I One 14" Large I One 14" Large 
One Topping ^ One Topping & An 
I Order of Breadsticks
99
+ ikx
| !SSbwbBekR RBssbeu $HIp0 ok2r T !SSbwbBekR wBssbeu $HI2p Be ok2r| 
j zBw vkRbS Jbwr ke9 Bwroh 2BLsBe I sbzzk zBw vkRbS Jbwr ke9 Bwroh I
T VkRbS BeR9 kw skhwb2bskwbe uwBhou T 2BLsBeI VkRbS BeR9 kw skhwb2bskwbe |
I________________J_______5Hes_______L
-hwI bb ' ' b bb !SSbwbBekR wBssbeu $HI2p ok2r (WBe -i.u kc-4scN ysc-2RBbo) 9 ^ Bwroh 2B0s2)e
!SSbwbBekR wBssbeu $HI2p ok2r 
zBI vkRbS JbRrBe9BRrBh 2BLsBe | VBRRS eR>'
VkRbS BeR9 kw skhwb2bskwbe uwBhou |
UNDERGRADUATES, GRADUATE 
STUDENTS, AND ALUMNI
You are cordially invited to the 12th Annual 
Pittsburgh High TechnologyCouncil and 
Carnegie Mellon University Carreer Center
Technology Job Fair
Speak with the regions leaders representing 
the following industries:
Biotechnology
 Computer Science
Engineering
 Environmental
 Telecommunications
Test and Measurement
Dress - Professional
Resumes - Required 
Tuesday, February 6,1996
10:00 a.m. - 4:00 p.m.
The Drill Deck

---------------------------------------------------

sThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 1996
Live off campus? Sign up for Al&T True Reach Savings"' and save 25%no matter who, how, when or where
_ you call in the U.S.
bL2L
tBLh ihLo frBb2o
'Eolohu wB RBe Sbuwke2o 2kRRu rbRRoS wB !iXi rBco eh !i1Ii -bRRbej; DbhS k22BLewuI TX'.Jewu BRl !ifiaLub2 hkwouI fohwkbe ox2RLubBeu kssR9 1Lajo2w wB R>bRRbej* k\'IbbabRWRbw9 -RiohLvkbRkaRo wB houbSoebbkR !i&i 2LuwBcohu: WbebcLc usoeSbe hoqLbhocoew Tu soh k-ubSoewbkR RbjboI "fBcs;LoS wB ckjBh RLe Sbuwke2o 2khhbohuI
Mens track team takes scond place in WVU Invitational
!ScbebuwhkwbBe 
TW :bho2wBhWbno WkuwhBbkeeb x8- 
22H4; !uuwI :bho2wBh  Wbno 
Dhz9Jbeunb Cxm-2ymx; TW 1o2howkh9 
 Wb2roRRo Wkwwk Xx-20pm; TW fBdhoubSoewu  Wbno WBeb2B keS 1oke 
/okeo X2-2y00; TW .Bcoe'u dhoub
Soew  dkww9 FhLeBI
'eI I TcsBhwkew :kwou 
'Burgh gRBBh B2no9 ELRou fRbeb2 
kw 4:m0 sc be irbuwRo kRRI
ockergh TW FBkhS Woowbe Te wro 
eoJ D9c fBelohoe2o EBBc kw HH:m0 
scN TW gRBBh B2no9 aobeuI
ovcierghTW Oewhbou :Lo lBh .hou
wRbe & .kwoh FkunowakRRI
By RICK SIMMONS
Tartan Staffwriter
Both the mens and womens 
indoor track teams turned in ex
cellent performances at the West 
Virginia University Invitational 
this past week.
As a team, the men placed sec
ond out of 10 teams, mostly Divi
sion III. The womens meet was 
not scored, yet several individu
als turned in excellent perfor
mances.
Senior Melissa Baustert led the 
competition by leaps and bounds 
in the 1,500m with a time of 
4:43.5, setting a fieldhouse record 
and qualifying her for the na
tional championships. Coach 
Dario Donatelli said Baustert 
stands well among her future 
competition, having possibly one 
of the 10 fastest times. Baustert
also finished first in the 500m 
and ran anchor for the 4x400m 
team that finished second. The 
other members of that relay team 
were freshmen Nana Quaynor, 
and Margaret Powers, and junior 
Vonquitra Bebee, who also fin
ished third in the 55m.
Another great time was-junior 
Becky Buchheits 10:29.0 in the 
3,000m. This got her first in the 
event and set a fieldhouse record.
She also finished third in the 
1,500m. Freshmen Maureen 
McGranaghan and Melissa Lott 
also placed in the 3,000m, finish
ing third and fourth, respectively.
On the mens side, freshman 
Kiisto Kriechbaum finished sec
ond in both the 1,500m and the 
1,000m. Junior Seb Zeisler also 
placed in the 1,500m, finishing 
third. Freshman Froilan 
Montenegro finished sixth in the
55m dash. Sophomore Rick 
Rikoski placed fourth in the pole 
vault. Freshman Peter Hunt 
earned fourth place in the high 
jump. Freshman Chris Louks fin
ished fourth in the 800m, and 
senior E. J. Tsangaris placed fifth 
in the shot put.
The indoor track squad faced 
Robert Morris College away on 
Sunday, and will travel to Oberlin 
College this Friday.
> TW F!1/OiF!>>
iro HyyC TW FkunowakRR 1okuBe bu 
be IlLjR uJbe Jbwr k wBwkR Bl y2 wokcu 
skhwb2bskwbe be lBLh Sbllohoew RokLouI 
iobkcu kho hocbeSoS wrkw wro9 rkvo Ls 
wB'wro uwkhw Bl wrobh uo2BeS kco wB 
ckno ke9 hBuwoh 2rkeouN keS kRR hBu
woh2rkeou cLuw ao ckSo be wro TW 
-llb2oI zB ockbR Bh srBeo 2rkeou JbRR 
ao k22oswoSI iokcu kho kRuB hocbeSoS 
wvsro2n TW FLRRowbe aBkhSu lBh 2Lh
hoew uwkeSbeuN u2roSLRbe 2rkeou 
keS ke9 Bwroh Sk9-wB-Sk9 k2wbvbwbou 
wrkw B22LhI Tl 9BL rkvo ke9 qLouwbBeu 
kaBLw TW FkunowakRR 9BL 2ke 2kRR TW 
:bho2wBh Wbno WkuwhBbkeeb kw Xx-22H4 
Bh-x'x-20pmI
dN
TINI g>--E -f/Ot
ovk HyyC TW gRBBh B2no9 uokuBe 
JbRR aobe Be iLouSk9N goahLkh9 6 be 
irbuwRo kRRI ! ckeSkwBh9 hLRou coow
be JbRR ao roRS wBSk9 kw 4:m0 sc be 
irbuwRo kRRI !22BhSbe wB wro vBwbeN 
wro sL2n JbRR hockbeI iro vBwou Joho 
m7 wB HC be lkvBh Bl wro sL2nI ! wBwkR 
Bl p$ wokcu JbRR skhwb2bskwoI iro ck
jBhu rkvo wrhoo wokcuN cbeBhu (2ro2n
be)I mpN cbeBhu (eBe-2ro2nbe) H0N 
keS wro JBcoe rkvo lbvo wokcuI ELRou 
2ke Iao sb2noS Ls be wro TW -llb2oN 
hBBbib H0H Te wro D9cI Tl 9BL rkvo ke9 
qLouwbBeuN sRokuo 2kRR wro TW :oskhw
coew kw Xx-22H4 Bh Xx-20pm Bh uwBs 
a9 wro TW -llb2oN EBBc H0H be wro 
D9cI
OziOETzD E-1iOE1 U1TzD OW!T> 
wB oewoh 9BLh wokc a9 Jk9 Bl ockbRN 
9BL cLuw Luo ke "-llb2bkR Oewh9 gBhcN" 
Jrb2r Tu sBuwoS wB wro Bllb2bkRIkwrRowb2- 
Sosw-eoJu aaBkhS sohbBSb2kRR9I dRokuo 
Luo wrbu lBhc Jroe oewohbe 9BLh wokcI 
OckbR oewhbou JbRR eBw ao k22oswoS ke9 
Bwlboh Jk9I QLouwbBeu 2ke ao Sbho2woS 
wB: Wb2roRRo (xx-20pm Bh ockbR wB 
"cbur")I
You suspect the salsa.
So you call Dr. Nusbldtt. your family vet back home.
The call is cheap.
TW F-!E: WOOiTzD 
iro eoxw TW FBkhS coowbe JbRR ao 
ro. Be iLouSk9N goahLkh9 6 kw HH:m0 
khhlbe wro eoJ 9c 2Belohoe2o hBBcI 
!RR uwLSoew BhkebzkwbBeu Bh ke9 beSo
soeSoew hBLsu Be 2kcsLu kho JoR
2BcoS wB kwwoeS wro coowbe keS 
skhwb2bskwo Te wro TW iBsb2uI Tl 9BL 
rkvo ke9 qLouwbBeu Bh uLouwbBeu lBh 
wro 4W FBkhSN sRokuo 2kRR TW :bho2wBh 
Wbno WkuwhBbkeeb kw Xx-22H4 Bh x8- 
20pmIDCXtOr S not his usual self.
-ggTfT!>1 !EO zOO:O: 
iro TW :oskhwcoew bu RBBnbe lBh 
akunowakRR keS lRBBh rB2no9 Bllb2bkRuI 
Tl 9nBL kho bewohouwoS be Bllb2bkwbe keS 
RBBnbe lBh k sk9be 2kcsLu jBaN 2kRR 
TWI :bho2wBh Wbno WkuwhBbkeeb kw x8- 
22b4 Bh uwBs be wro TW -llb2oN EBBc 
H0RN D9cI
Spring Break 1996
TRAVELFREEU
'kckb2kI fke2LeI Fkrkcku 
dkekck fbw9I :kvwBekI dkSho 
** Dhokw RBJN RBJ shb2ou 
!** ghoo ihbs Be BeR9 Hp ukRou 
: -fcAL fkRR lBh k gEOO 
belBhckwbBe 
; "vV9 sk2now !
sra Sun Splash Tours 
1-800-426-7710Life can be complicated. AT&T True Reach Savings4'1 is simple. Save 25% on every kind of call on 
your AT&T phone bill-direct dial, calling card, directory assistance, local toll, cellular, fax and modem - 
when you spend just $25 a monthf No other plan gives you all these different ways to save?*
Just call 1800 TRUE-ATT to sign up. Save on every call. Thats Your True Choice
' FEMALES 18-25 
Earn $15
; Participate in a blood 
pressure study. No blood 
will be taken & nothing is 
painful!
Call 383-2202 
University of Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 19969
Move three-pointers back
The Alley Oop
by Chris Cannon
Move back the line. Its no fun any
more. The NBAs three-point line is 
too close for pros. Its no longer a hard 
shot. It promotes selfishness, and is 
id for basketball altogether.
If youve seen a game recently, you 
knowits traumatic effects. Most good 
teams have the same half-court of
fense. Ball goes in to talented seven 
foot center with a rap album, who then 
plays one-on-one with his man. If he 
gets double teamed, he passes to that 
promising guard youve seen in all the 
commercials, who shoots the easy, 
wide-open three.
Anti-climatic, boring, and tame. 
Three players are currently shooting 
over 50 percent behind the line. So 
many of them get made, its no longer 
the crowd-pleaser it once was.
Instead of making the game more 
exciting, it has become the benchmark 
for the good team. For three of the four 
best teams (Orlando, Houston, and 
Seattle) one out of every four shots is 
a three-pointer.
They are first, second, and 
;third respectively in number of 
three-pointers taken. Most of 
the leagues worst teams cant 
hit the three and know it. New 
Jersey, Milwaukee, Toronto, 
Minnesota, Vancouver, and 
Phoenix have an average record 
;of 13-29, take almost 12 threepoint shots a game, and hit less 
than a third of those.
Perhaps the only team that 
'isnt so strongly influenced by
the stripe is the leagues best: the Chi
cago Bulls. Although they lead the league 
in three-point shooting percentage, they 
are 13th in number taken. The Bulls 
simply take the shot when the other 
team lays off them, instead of making it 
an integral part of their game.
Part of the Bulls success is due to 
their old-school style of playing. They 
benefit from many long, but wide-open 
jump shots that were always available 
with the old three-point line. Their cen
ters shoot short jumpers, their forwards 
shoot medium jumpers, and their guards 
shoot long ones.
Backing the line up will make every 
game more competitive. The court will 
be more spread out, which makes pass
ing, help defense, and teamwork more a 
part of the game. Blowouts wont be 
nearly as easy, less elbowing and lane 
pile-ups will occur, and teams will no 
longer play the same static line-ups.
Moving the line back to its original 
place will promote better basketball. 
Young players like Jason Kidd and Penny 
Hardaway will develop a medium range 
to go with their formidable inside/out
side combo. Cedric Ceballos and Glenn 
Robinson might learn to pass when faced 
with a shot they cant hit. And old pros 
like Olajuwon and Jordan will keep on 
hitting the shots that no one else wants 
to take.
Chris Cannon is a sophomore com
puter science major.
Dkahboe 19cBeuvikhwke !hw OSbwBh
Hockey club outskates SRU, 6-4
-f/OtN lhBc sko H2
the blue line in perfect position and 
rocketed pucks into the zone all night 
long. Ivanovic continued his quest for a 
hat trick, scoring again one minute 
after Ardire, from penalty-besieged 
Cramer, making it 3-1, CMU.
Slippery Rock does not like to lose, 
especially to a team that is smaller 
than they are. But CMU outskated their 
checks and schooled their goalie until 
SRIPs frustration turned nasty. The 
second and third periods showed in
creased physical play by both teams. 
SRU only managed to score one power - 
play goal to CMUs three.
There was controversy on both sides 
when a goal by SRU was waved off by a 
high stick on the play. Two minutes 
later, a CMU goal by Anthony Paul was 
waved off by a man down on the play, 
even though the goal was scored before 
a whistle sounded. These scoring oppor
tunities didnt prove to be deciding fac
tors in the game. With Ardire the only 
Tartan to score in the second, the CMU 
team left the ice with a 42 edge over 
Slippery Rock. Ivanovic had been drill
ing the net seeking his third goal and 
seemed anxious to step back on the ice.
The teams traded goals and minor 
penalties in the third, and Relja contin'Bur ghoockevikhwke drBwBhksroh 
iro ikhwkeu houbuwoS k Rkuw cbeLwo sLur a9 1EU wB u2Bho kkbe be wro lbekR uo2BeSuI
ued his drive. He found Fitzgerald, and 
one more pointthough not the one he 
wanted  half way though the period. 
It was 5-4 CMU with three minutes to 
play, and Kliegman had been coming up 
big the entire game in net. His glove 
saves were fantastic. In the final minute, 
Slippery Rock pulled their goalie and 
sent a sixth man on, but CMU contin
ued to control their passing game and. 
excellent defensive zone coverage by 
trapping the puck and sending it up the 
ice. With one second left, Maddalena 
scored from Campo and the building 
was rocked with cheers. The SRU bench 
and fans exploded in anger, but it looked 
like they would have to wait to meet the 
Tartans again in the playoffs. Despite 
being outshot, CMU ended up with the 
6-4 victory and piled onto their goalie 
with cries of joy. Kliegman had tallied 
another 34-save game by the buzzer.
The next two weekends will bring 
challenging games to Pittsburgh for the 
Tartans. For the next two Saturday, 
evenings, SDC and Student Activities, 
are sponsoring free fan buses and free 
admission to the University of Pitts
burgh and Allegheny College games. 
These matches will decide the playoff 
berths for the league. Busses leave 
More wood at 8 pm both evenings, CMU' 
ID required. Carnegie Mellon skates 
against Robert Morris College away at 
9:30 pm Friday, then faces divisional, 
rivals University of Pittsburgh, in a 
rematch of last semesters controversial 
and incredibly physical game, which 
the Tartans won 3-1.
Tartans buried by UCs second half surge
--d1N lhBc sko H2
range en route to a 32-27 half-time 
lead. CMU could lock up its second 
league win of the year by applying the 
defensive screws and playing solid of
fense. Unfortunately, Chicago came out 
of the locker room and bulled its way 
over the Tartans by outscoring them in 
the second half 42-22 on 59 percent
shooting. Five Chicago players finished 
with double figures in scoring, while 
Kupfer lead the Tartans with 14 points, 
nine rebounds, and a pair of assists. 
Sophomore guard Marcelle Steele also 
contributed 14 points and a pair of as
sists from the backcourt.
On January 26, the Tartans took on 
one of the top teams in the UAA in
Washington University in St. Louis and 
lost 6357. Kupfer led the team with 19 
points, three assists and three steals. 
Summerville added 16 points, five re^ 
bounds, three assists and four steals.
Yesterday, the Tartans took on New 
York University and will begin a threegame homestand this Friday with a 
rematch against Chicago.
-loyas, Orangemen lead Big Easts return to the top of college basketball
R|D O!1iN lhBc sko HH
it most, seem to be sure things 
or the tournament. Yet, not in 
he Big East. No less than five 
earns from the conference have 
ust about assured themselves an 
nvitation to the big dance. And 
Hese arent just great teams, 
Hese are great teams with star 
(layers that they can count on 
vhen the game is on the line.
The weakest of these five 
earns, if they can be called weak, 
s; Boston College (12-5 coming 
nto the weekend). BC is led by 
>enior Dayna Abrams, who is 
iveraging over 20 points per 
lame, and freshman sensation 
jcoonie Penn. All you need to 
oiow about the Big East this 
'ear is that Scoonie has no chance
o receive an award for bestnamed freshman (if there were 
such a thing) since God 
Shammgod of Providence also 
resides in the conference. And 
God is not a half-bad basketball 
player either. Hes the starting 
point guard for a Providence team 
that has an outside chance at 
making the tournament, and just 
upset BC this week. God is 11th 
in the country averaging just 
about seven assists per game.
The four best teams in the con
ference could also be the last four 
teams playing college basketball 
this spring, if they play to their 
potential. Syracuse, Georgetown, 
Villanova, and Connecticut have 
all been exceptional this year. 
The most surprising of these 
teams has been Syracuse, who 
has been led by senior John
Wallace, who is averaging 23 
points per game and has played 
himself into possibly becoming a 
lottery pick in next years NBA 
draft.
But as good as the Orangemen 
have been, they are only second 
in the Big East 7, because of the 
running Georgetown Hoyas. The 
Hoyas have typically been molded 
by John Thompson as a staid and 
patient team who looks to pound 
other teams, but not anymore. 
With sophomore sensation Allen 
Iverson leading the way, the 
Hoyas have lost only three games 
all year, and Iverson is a strong 
candidate for player of the year in 
the nation. All hes done is lead 
the Big East in scoring and steals. 
Now, if only the Hoyas support
ing cast of Jerome Williams (who
some have called the next Dennis 
Rodman), freshman Victor Page, 
and Othella Harrington decide to 
stop watching Iverson run up and 
down the court and actually play 
with him, the .Hoyas could be 
unstoppable in March.
Contending with Iverson for Big 
East Player of the Year honors is 
Kerry Kittles of Villanova. 
Villanovas strong suit is that it 
has players it can count on be
sides Kittles, including outside 
shooter Eric Eberz and center 
Jason Lawson.
But the deepest bench in the
Big East belongs to the best team 
in the Big East. The Connecticut 
Huskies, who after losing their 
second game of the season, have 
won their last 19 in a row show no 
signs of being stopped. Leading 
the Huskies is junior Ray Allen, 
who is one of the most versatile 
players in the country. Allen can 
not only shoot the three-point shot 
with deadly accuracy, but also 
has the ability to soar over oppo
nents. Supporting Allen is excel
lent cast including Israeli Doron 
Sheffer and center Travis Knight.
So, who will emerge from the
Big East? It looks pretty clear 
that Connecticut will win the Big 
East 6, while Georgetown should 
win the Big East 7 , even though 
seven of their last eight games 
are against teams in the top 25, 
Both of these teams should make 
some noise in the NCAA tourna
ment, with Connecticut being my - 
current pick for the team that 
should go all the way and bring _ 
the national championship back ~ 
to the Big East.
Ronak Singhal is a junior ECE . 
major. TfB:
lmg55eveo,
fOUSING
RbkaRo bccoSbkwoR9 m aoShBBc 
khwcoewN Rbvbe hBBcN akwrN nbw2roeN 
Wkwo sBh2rN RkLeSh9 lk2bRbw9 keS uwBhko 
k2o kvkbRkaRo Be shocbuou lBh qLbowN 
RlbBLu uwLSoewuN $7p0 k cBewrI fkRR 
4H-pymC Bh 7mm-m002I
ooew 1qLkho !sw - H ahN oqLbssoS 
WoeN JkRR wB JkRRN Bll-uwhoow skhnbeN 
sLhbw9N RkLeSh9N eb2oN qLbowN eB sowuI
m70 + D&OI 7mH-mpx7I
0BS
fRboew oxwhk be2Bco eBJI OevoRBso 
LllbepC00 - $x00 ovoh9 JoonI ghoo 
owkbRu: 1!1O wB TewohekwbBekR Te2I Hm7p 
eo9 TuRkeS !voI FhBBnR9eN zoJ tBhn 
H2m0I
khe 1p00 - $1000 JoonR9 uwLllbe 
zBsuI gBh SowkbRuN hLur $HI00 Jbwr 
^wB: DhBLs gbvoN p7 Dhooewhoo :hbvoN 
LbRom07N :BvohN :OTyy0HI
^unk OcsRB9coew-1wLSoewu zooSoS! 
J TeSLuwh9I Okhe Ls wB $mN000- 
W--+ soh cBewrI EBBc keS FBkhS! 
!usBhwkwbBe! WkRo Bh gockRoI zB 
^sohboe2o eo2ouukh9I fkRR (20C)y7H^-oxw !p2mCHI
kle pp00 Bh cBho JoonR9 uwLllbe 
evoRBsou kw rBcoI 1oeS RBe 1!1O wB :
fBLewh9 >bvbe 1rBssohuN :oswI f22N
dI-I FBx H77yN :oerkc 1shbeuN >! 
70727I
fBLeuoRBhu lBh 2B-oS zIOI d!IN -voh
ebrw 'oJbur goSohkwbBe fkcsm rBLhu 
lhBc ztfoeohkRN usBhwuN JkwohlhBew & 
khwuI fkRRR-x00-y7m-mxCCI -e 2kcsLu 
bewohvboJu kvkbRkaRoI
frbeouo wLwBh - gRLoew frbeouo sholohkaR9 
fkewBeouo lBh wLwBhbeI m-p rBLhu k Joon 
be 2 Bh m uouubBeuI $H0vrBLhI ibco Bl Sk9 
eoBwbkaRoI gBhckR RouuBeu eBw hoqLbhoSI 
WLuw Rbno 9BLe 2rbRShoeI mCH -mpp7I
JRAVEL
ghoo ihbsu & fkur! gbeS BLw rBJ 
rLeShoSu Bl uwLSoewu kho kRhokS9 okhebe 
lhoo whbsu keS RBwu Bl 2kur Jbwr !cohb2k'u 
#H 1shbe Fhokn fBcske9! 1oRR BeR9 Hp 
whbsu keS whkvoR lhoo! frBBuo fke2eN 
FkrkckuN WkzkwRkeN Bh gRBhbSk! fkRR eBJ! 
ikno k Fhokn 1wLSoew ihkvoR (x00)-ypFEO!/!
!RJk9u wro RBJouw lkhou: >! $2myN 
drBoebx $HxyN 1ke ghke2bu2B $2C7N Wbkcb 
$H7xN iBn9B $7y7N !wRkewk $HHxN zoJ 
tBhn $yxN .khukJ & dhkLo $4xpI 
zBhwr2Lw ihkvoR kw xx4-CpCpI
SERVICES
ghoo gbeke2bkR !bS! -voh $6 FbRRbBe be 
sLaRb2 keS shbvkwo uo2wBh hkewu & 
u2rBRkhurbsu bu eBJ kvkbRkaRoI !RR uwLSoewu 
kho oRbbaRo hokhSRouu Bl hkSouN be2BcoN 
Bh skhoew'u be2BcoI >ow Lu roRsI fkRR 
1wLSoew gbeke2bkR
1ohvb2ou: H-x00-2Cm-C4yp oxwI gp2mC2I
>Buo Jobrw lBh 1shbe Fhokn -Ls wB m0 
RauI be m0 Sk9uI !RRekwLhkR rohakRv 
eLwhbwbBekR shBSL2wu; SB2wBh ho2Bc
coeSoS! 42y-pxypI
gBhobe uwLSoewu-vbubwBhuI :V-H 
Dhooe2khS dhBhkc kvkbRkaRoI H -x00-CC0- 
7HC7 12 (xHx) 772-7HCxI #202mH 1wkN 
.beeownkN f! yyHm0CI
Classified Rates
1-20 JBhSuIIIIIIIII$10I00vJn
2H-p0 JBhSuIIIIIIIII$H2I00vJn
pH-H00 JBhSuIIIIII$HpI00vJn
W!T> i-:
iro ikhwkeN FBxb 7 
fkheobo WoRRBe Uebvohbubw9 
dbwwuaLhrN d! Hp2Hm-mxy0
fRkuublboSu cLuw ao skbS be 2kur Bh 
2ro2n aolBho lbhuw hLe Skwo
-e-2kcsLu Soskhwcoewu keS Bhkebzk
wbBeu ck9 sk9 a9 jBLhekR whkeuloh
:Lo a9 p sc wro irLhuSk9 aolBho 
sLaRb2kwbBe
SUITE LOCATION
ELEGANTLY FURNISHED ONE OR TWO BEDROOM APARTMENT 
SUITES INCLUDE AN EQUIPPED KITCHEN, FLUFFY LINENS, TV, VCR; 
CABLE MOVIES, FREE LOCAL PHONE SERVICE AND 
RESERVED PARKING.
CONVENIENTLY LOCATED AT 5405 FIFTH AVENUE, SHADYSIDE 
2 BLOCKS FROM WALNUT STREET'S 145 FASHIONABLE SHOPS AND 
12 DELICIOUS RESTAURANTS. 1 MILE TO CMU/PITT/HOSPITALS
! 1UTiO g-E >O11 i!z ! -iO> E--W
p40p gTgi !VOzUO 
dTii1FUEDN d! Hp2m2 
d-zO: 44H-4444
TziOEzOi: rwws:vvwbI2BcvdbwwuaLhrv _____
THE TARTAN 
268-2111

---------------------------------------------------

i
JUf
hi,.
i i 
rfrJV 
fill
ENGINEERS
BFGoodrich Aerospace  Aircraft Integrated Systems, a 
member of the BFGoodrich Aerospace family of businesses, is 
a leading supplier of state-of-the-art electronic performance 
systems for the aerospace industry.
BFGoodrich offers outstanding opportunities for highly 
innovative engineers to be at the forefront of technology 
development. We design and manufacture aircraft monitoring 
and control systems that provide improved safety, greater 
accuracy and reliability, and enhanced value for our customers 
world wide.
Representatives from BFGoodrich Aerospace will conduct 
interviews in Warner Hall on Thursday, February 8 with 
students from the following fields of study:
 Electrical and Computer Engineering
 Software Engineering
 Computer Science
BFGs Vermont location, situated near Lake Champlain and the 
Green Mountains, offers an wide array of outdoor and 
recreation opportunities and a quality of life for which Vermont 
is renowned. Burlington, the nearest city, was cited as one of 
seven "Dream Towns" in the U.S. by Outside magazine in a 
recent cover story.
BFGoodrich Aerospace  Aircraft Integrated Systems offers 
competitive pay and an excellent benefits package.
Please contact the Career Center if you would like to learn 
more about BFGoodrich Aerospace. In addition, BFG 
representatives will conduct a reception in Room 208 of the 
Student Center from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m. on February 7.
BFGoodrich
Aerospace
Aircraft Integrated Systems
H00 dkewBe EBkS 
VohoeeouN VohcBew 0p4yH
g6o uIa o6os ioo9 lgmmo,YYY
5rate,
sexually frustrated
sgle5r
g9reTUMero
g lse1e9gm
g vg0
g 0ooS
an alcoholic
iolga5o uIa 6uosoYYY
g9 gsre5r 
an engineer
0sooS
Come teach CSW 
and be the envy of 
all your friends.
(You also get to have Sun, 
meet new friends, make good money, 
have a great looking resume, 
and make a difference in someone's life 0
Mandatory information meeting 
Wednesday, Feb. 7 in the Adamson Wing 
rom 5:30 to 7pm
1
Apply today!
http://www.csw.cmu.edu/apply
Hearst New Media and Technology
Are you a top-notch software developer with expertise 
in databases, user interfaces, & software engineering? 
Do you have a creative dimension with interests in the 
visual arts?
Tl YES, Jo ck9 rkvo wro hbrw BssBhwLebw9 lBh 9BLI
The Hearst Corporation, a major media company that includes Cosmopolitan, 
Esquire, Harpers Bazaar, Popular Mechanics, and various other print and broad
casting businesses, has opportunities for World Wide Web Developers at its 
state-of-the art New Media Center in New York City.
In this position, you will work closely with editorial and creative people from 
the magazine, newspaper, and broadcasting groups to develop leading edge 
interactive applications. Visit the Multimedia Newsstand (http://mmnews.com), 
Popular Mechanics (http://popularmechanics.com), WBAL-TV Baltimore 
(http://wbaltv.com), and HomeArts (http://homearts.com) to sample some of the 
Hearst Corporation web sites.
Technical experience in Unix, Perl, and C is required. Expertise in leading edge 
systems including user personalization, multimedia databases, user tracking, etc., 
is a plus. System Administration background on Unix workstations is also a plus. 
A Bachelors degree in a technical discipline is required.
Hearst offers an excellent compensation package, including salary and benefits.
mog5o oT1gem so5a1o rI yMgsgr yMgsg9 F55Mgsg9jMogs5rYlI1f Is 
dgp gr .3.TH.TBBWxY

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 199611
selSor rog15 Mog, e9rI 3xxEIsm, nat
International Sports News
by Rahul Aggarwal
The whole cricket world has been 
greatly anticipating February 14, when 
he sixth cricket World Cup finally gets 
underway in the Indian sub-continent. 
Lately, the political unrest in both Paki
stan and Sri Lanka and the squabbling 
over broadcasting rights in India have 
narred the build-up to the World Cup. 
The favorites, Australia, are even conidering forfeiting their game against 
Sri Lanka in Colombo due to a recent 
jomb explosion there. If they do, this 
will seriously tarnish the credibility of 
[he World Cup.
The 12 participating teams have been 
livided into two groups: Group A, con
sisting of India, Sri Lanka, Australia, 
Vest Indies, Zimbabwe, and Kenya; 
Group B consists of Pakistan, England, 
New Zealand, South Africa, United Arab 
Emirates, and Holland.
[Ed. Note: International Sports News 
will cover Group B in next weeks colimn.J
GROUP A:
INDIA  India last won the World 
"up in 1983, and is hoping to recapture 
it on home soil. The Indian team will be 
mder great pressure from its fanatic 
ans  only winning will do.
Much will depend on the brilliant 
Sachin Tendulkar; still only at the tenler age of 22,1 regard him as the most 
lestructive and elegant batsman in 
vorld cricket today. Since he moved to 
he opening slot, he has been nothing 
short of spectacular, averaging around 
iO. His technique is impeccable, he packs 
remendous power and strength into his 
short, stocky frame, and his ability to
time the ball is second only to Mohammed 
Azharuddin. He is also an agile fielder 
and has often proved a successful bowler 
in the slog overs.
Indias most successful captain, 
Mohammed Azharuddin, will also be a 
key man if India is to succeed. He is a 
dashing batsman and his wristy flicks, 
glances, and drives are a true feast for 
the eye. Once in the groove, he can be 
utterly unstoppable.
He is also an excellent fielder and his 
leadership has earned him great respect 
from his entire team. If these two play
ers fail, then it is highly probable that 
India will fail as well, as these players 
provide the catalyst for the rest of the 
team.
and fast bowler Dharmendra Vaas. In 
the past, they have proven to be 
matchwinners for Sri Lanka.
When the Sri Lankans play at their 
peak, they have shown that they can 
beat the best, but their form is inconsis
tent and that is why I-dont see them 
progressing further than the 
quarterfinals.
AUSTRALIA  The Australians are, 
without a doubt, deserved favorites to 
win the World Cup. They last won it in 
1987. They can bat right down to the tail 
and their bowling attack is also very 
strong. Michael Slater is one of the best 
openers in the world, and he has shown 
his ability to smash the best bowlers out
!cbw /khvikhwke FLubeouu Wkekoh RBLe2w ckw2rouI
WEST INDIESThe West Indies are 
a pale shadow of the formidable team 
they once were. Their four-prong pace 
attack cant compare with that of the 
70s and 80s. They do have world-class 
bowlers in Curtly Ambrose and Courtney 
Walsh, and the Windies will look to 
them to blow away the opposition.
The Windies havent yet managed to 
fill the opening slots with batsmen of the 
caliber of Desmond Haynes and Gordon 
Greenidge.
Only two years ago, Brian Lara was 
the talking point in cricket, when he 
smashed record after record. However, 
recent personal problems led to a fall
out with the West Indian Cricket Board 
and he didnt tour Australia. Now he has 
been reinstated and is short of much 
needed match practice.
The Windies have been guilty of crum
bling under pressure too many times, 
and the World Cup is all about playing 
under pressure. They will have a disap
pointing World Cup and will be knocked 
out at the quarterfinals stage.
ZIMBABWE  The Zimbabwe team 
is still a minnow in international cricket 
and will pose little threat to the other 
more established teams.
They did, however, cause a surprise in 
the last World Cup, when they beat 
runners-up England. That was just a 
flash in the pan, and they are still far too 
inexperienced to be a major force. There 
is no way they will get past the first
Anil Kumble, the unorthodox 
legspinner, will also be heavily relied 
upon to contain the runs and produce his 
deadly flipper, which has proved to be 
the downfall of many a batsmen.
If India plays to its full potential, I can 
see them as semifinalist material and 
possibly finalists. However, it will by no 
means be an easy task.
SRI LANKAThe Sri Lankans have 
just suffered humiliating defeats by Aus
tralia, and will also be under pressure 
from fans to perform well. They cer
tainly have quality players in captain 
Arjuna Ranatunga, Aravinda DeSilva,
of the attack.
Steve Waugh has always been a con
sistent and thoroughly reliable figure in 
the Australian team. He is a solid bats
man and can hold an inning together in 
crisis situations, and he is an effective 
bowler with an excellent slower ball.
In the bowling department, Australia 
can rely on fast bowler, Craig McDermott 
and the Wizard of Oz  legspinner, 
Shane Warne. In my eyes, he is the best 
exponent of spin in the world. He has a 
lethal leg-break and he bowls a good 
flipper and googly too. All their players 
are potential matchwinners, and they 
are my favorites for World Champions.
KENYAThe Kenyans are newcom
ers to the World Cup and have very little 
experience in international cricket.
This tournament will prove to be a 
learning one for them. I cant see them 
winning a single game in this group. It 
looks like an early trip back home for the 
Kenyans.
Rahul Aggarwal is a junior IM major 
and an exchange student from the UK. 
He is trying to arrange full live coverage 
of the World Cup at CMU. Anyone inter
ested in viewing it should contact him by 
email (aggarwal+@andrew) or by phone 
(x2-3676).
The Sixth Man
by Ronak Singhal
NCAAs Big 
East returns
Critics had derided the college bas
ketball conference as a made-for-television conference consisting of urban 
East Coast schools which lacked the 
tradition of conferences such as the 
Big 10 or Pac-10. Yet in 1985, the 
conference was sitting on top of the 
world, as it was the year in which the 
Big East dominated college basketball 
unlike any conference has dominated 
in recent history. It was the year that 
three of the Final Four teams were 
from the Big East. It was the year in 
which the two finalists for the na
tional championship were from the 
Big East. It was the year of stars like 
Patrick Ewing, Chris Mullin, and 
Walter Berry.
But as quickly as the conference had 
risen to prominence, its glory started 
to fade. Since that year, not a single 
Big East team has won the national 
title, and only one, Syracuse, has even 
made the finals of the NCAA tourna
ment. The conference had been a pow
erhouse as teams physically pounded 
on each other in the regular season, 
especially so in the dreaded days of the 
six-foul limit on players, and left con
ference teams physically dead when 
the NCAA tournament rolled around. 
But those days appear to be over, as 
the teams of the Big East have served 
notice this season that they are once 
again the best of the nation.
With one month left before the NCAA 
tournament, teams across the country 
are fighting for position in hopes of 
receiving a tournament bid. In most 
power conferences, one or two teams 
dRokuo uoo FTD O!1iN sko y
Losing weight 
is one tiling. 
Losing perspective 
is another.
Gain back a sense of mho p mere before food M control.
Stop in for free information and screening for eating disorders.
[Il(. Tuesday, February 6lima: llam-2pia
Place: West Wing TV Room
sponsored by Health Services (x8 2157)
The National Eating Disorders Screening Program
an even! during Eating Disorders Awareness Week
Voter Registration 
Drive
Tuesday February 6  
Thursday February 8
Time: 10:30 am to
3:30 pm
Place: Doherty Hall lobby 
Baker Hall lobby 
Morewood lobby 
Highlander lobby
ytI95Iso, iu uIas 
yra,o9r 8I6os91o9r

---------------------------------------------------

just e<
away
41-41
[.kurbewBe
omen
ALVIN
"tan Jun
VBRLco y0N TuuLo Hpiro ikhwkeN fkheobo WoRRBe Uebvohubw9N dbwwuaLhrN doeeu9Rvkebkp goahLkh9 HyyC
7o95 ig5Sorigmm 0Io5 
3TW e9 Nbb 1grlMat5
By ADAM VINCENT
*Tartan Junior Staff writer
This past Friday, the Tartans 
edged out Brandis in an 
UAA game, 87-82. Tied 
going into the half, the
ikhwke gbRo drBwB 
ikhwkeu SolokwoS FhkeSbu Be 
aLw loRR okhRboh be wro Joon 
keS frb2kBI
two teams came out fighting in 
the second. With 3:25 remain
ing in the game, Brandeis bur
ied a pair of free throws to tie the 
game again, this time at 72 
apiece. This led the Tartans to 
go on an eight-point scoring 
streak and eventually take the 
game. Senior forward Kevin 
Byrne had a great game, add
ing 28 points and seven re
bounds to the statistics, and 
junior guard Rich Bodnar had 
19 points and six boards.
During the past weekend, 
the team dropped two impor
tant UAA games, losing to 
Washington, 93-74, and Chi
cago, 70-68, in overtime. 
These two losses put the 
hoopsters on fragile territory 
as they approach the post-sea
son.
Last Friday, th Tartans 
were on the road to face Wash
ington. The Tartans opened 
the game well, leading by five, 
but afterwards couldnt get 
closer than six as they headed 
towards a 93-74 defeat. The
heroes for CMU were Bodnar, 
who scored 20 points and had 
eight boards, and senior Jon 
Blanciak, who had 11 points and 
eight rebounds.
On Sunday, the men continued 
their road trip in Chicago. De
spite being down at halftime 31- 
23, the Tartans battled back an'I 
gained a 61-57 lead with 29 sec
onds remaining. However, the 
Maroons Rusty Loyd proved to 
be too much for the Tartans, as he 
scored the final four points of the 
second half to put the game into 
overtime. During overtime, it was 
once again Loyd who hit the garnewinner, with just seven seconds 
on the clock, and finishing with a 
game-high 24 points. For the 
Tartans, senior Kevin Byrne con
tinued his great year with 20 
points and a game-high 16 re
bounds. Bodnar also chipped in 
with 15 points.
The Tartans played at New 
York University oh Sunday and 
face Chicago on Friday and Wash
ington next Sunday in a pair of 
home matches.
Iw
s basketball drops three
GAVIN
Junior Staff writer
Friday, Carnegie Mellon, looking for its 
victory of the season, took on Brandeis 
University, a team that found itself in the same 
situation. While the Tartans outshot Brandeis 
from the field, Brandeis won 80-64, making both 
ofitheir league victories wins against CMU.
.SThe key was winning the turnover battle, as 
Brandeis only turned the ball over 12 times, 
compared to a back-breaking 21 Tartan turn
ers. These turnovers led to Brandeis taking 18 
jre shots than the Tartans in the first half, and 
more shots, for the game. Using good ball 
vement and shot selection, Brandeis recorded 
assists on 31 baskets.
. high-scoring first half ended with the Tar8ns down by a large, but not insurmountable 
Jad of 11 points, 43-32. Unfortunately, after 
44.4 percent from the field in the first 
shots wouldnt quite go the same way in 
second half. The Tartans managed to score 
for a final comeback, but they could not 
down Brandeis defensively, and lost 80-64. 
nior forward Kristen Kupfer led the team 
17 points and sophomore center Katie 
added 14. Kupfer, sophomore forward 
Summerville and junior guard Kelly 
shared the rebounding duties with eight
In the Tartans previous game on January 28, 
the Tartans traveled to Illinois to take on the 
University of Chicago, and lost 69-54. The Tar
tans came out of the gate with a bang, hitting 14 
of their 29 shots and holding UC to only 11 of 31 
shots from the field and 0-6 from three-point 
dRokuo uoo --d1N sko y
ikhwke gbRo drBwB 
iLheBvohu 2hbssRoS wro ikhwkeu be wrobh kco kkbeuw 
FhkeSobuN kRRBJbe wro 'LSou wB JbeN x0-C4I
i-t '
DLuwkvB 1kezohRkvikhwke drBwBhksroh
-e ghbSk9N wro JBcoe aokw gkbhcBew 1wkwo H04-ymN JrbRo wro coe RBuw H0y-ypI
yUe1 rog15 oglM 5tmer tges
BySUDHIR REDDY
Tartan Staffwriter
Coach Jim Cutrone said, The teams swam 
great, when referring to the meets this past 
weekend as both teams hosted Westminster Col
lege and Fairmont State University. Indeed, both 
teams had excellent performances as both meets 
remained undecided until the final races.
On Saturday, both teams swam close meets 
against Fairmont State. The mens team won 
104101, with the final points coming in the 400- 
yard free relay. Sophomores Mike Foster, Jake 
McGuire, and Hunter Payne and junior Chris 
ORourke paced their team to a second-place fin
ish in the relay.
With a third-place finish by the team of junior 
Tony Rippy, sophomore Mike Berty, and fresh
men Ian McArthur, and Daigo Katagiri, the mens 
team took the win.
Highlights of the meet included senior Geoff 
Wallers pool-record-setting performance in the 
200-yard butterfly, with a time of 2:00.03. Waller 
also had a first-place finish in the 1,000-yard 
freestyle with a time of 10:09.21. Senior Matt Moe 
set a pool record in the 200-yard breaststroke with 
a time of 2:13.45. Moe finished first in the 200- 
yard freestyle with a time of 1:50.25.
Ironically, the womens team lost the meet on 
their 400-yard free relay. A disqualification might 
have cost the team the final victory. Nevertheless, 
the close meet had several highlights. In the first 
relay of the meet, the 400-yard medley relay, 
CMU jumped to a quick lead with a first-place 
finish by freshman Jennifer Skuly, sophomore 
Jennifer Supancic, sophomore Rebecca Fruehan, 
and junior Christina Hagopian.
Fruehan also placed first in the 200-yard indi
vidual medley with a time of 2:19.67. Supancic 
was first in the 200-yard breaststroke, with a time 
of 2:40.67. Sophomore Carly Cenedella finished 
first in the 200-yard butterfly with a time of 
2.25.77.
On Friday, the womens team was involved in 
another close meet with Westminster but was 
able to win 10493 with clutch performances by 
the swimmers. The team took a quick early lead in 
the 200-yard medley relay. Skuly, Supancic, 
Fruehan, and junior Paige Andstadt led the team 
to a first-place finish. Freshman Michelle Kondo
(1000-yard freestyle), Supancic (200-yard indi
vidual medley), and Fruehan (100-yard freestyle) 
paced the team with first place performances. 
Their respective times were 11:19.47, 2:20.21, 
and 0:55.14. Yet it wasnt until the final three 
events of the meet that the team was able to clinch 
the victory. Skuly placed first in the 500-yard 
freestyle with a time of 5:28.03, which helped give 
the team the lead. Next, in the 100-yard breast
stroke, Supancic gave a pool-record performance 
with a time of 1:13.52. Her performance, along 
with Anstadts, gave the team enough points for 
the victory. In the 400-yard free relay, the team 
widened its margin with a first-place finish by 
Fruehan, Skuly, Cenedella, and Hagopian. Their 
time was 1:44.68.
The mens team lost on Friday but the race was 
again close throughout the meet. In the early 
parts of the meet, sophomore Wayne Nickles (1000- 
yard freestyle) and ORourke (50-yard freestyle) 
paced the team with first-place finishes. Their 
respective times were 10:39.16 and 0:23.18. Moe 
finished first in the 400-yard individual medley 
and the 500-yard freestyle, with respective times 
of 4:19.16 and 4:57.61. Waller also finished first in 
the 100-yard freestyle with a time of 0:50.01. 
However, their wins werent enough, as the team 
lost 109-95.
With the regular season over, the teams are 
looking to the UAA Championships at Washing
ton University with high expectations. Cenedella 
commented, The swimmers had good races and 
are really excited about the UAAs. Both teams 
are also hopeful of qualifying swimmers for the 
N CAA championships held in the middle of March 
at Emory University.
Also last week, Waller and Fruehan were named 
the University Athletic Associations Swimmersof-the-Week for their meets against Washington 
& Jefferson College. In that meet, Fruehan had 
three first-place finishes and set a Skibo pool 
record in the 200-yard freestyle. Fruehan is an 
eight-time All-American, a two-time UAA Swimmer-of-the-Year, and holds seven Association in
dividual titles.
Waller had two first-place finishes against W&J 
and has earned All-America honors in the 200- 
yard butterfly and the 100-yard individual med
ley for two straight years. He is the defending 
UAA champion in both events.
pite injuries, Tartan hockey team defeats Stars twice on the road
STRELITZ
Staffwriter
three weeks to go in regularplay, the Tartans have taken a 
hold on their division by imtheir record to 6-0, with an 
record of 10-4. 
opening in their Saturday night ice 
slot allowed for a weekend of Stars at 
th}2 end of January. But the Pittsburgh 
junior development team, hot after beat
ing both Penn State West and Indiana 
.University of Pennsylvania, was the one 
seeing stars after the Tartans took both 
Saturdays evening game and the afterr^on game on Sunday, by scores of 9-6 
,ai}d 6-5.
r. The first game was played quickly and 
ileanly, with six total penalty minutes. 
Tl}e emphasis was on scoring, with the 
.Tartans taking a commanding lead, and
finishing the first period up 4-1. Senior 
captain Roger Maddalena scored on a 
feed from junior Ray Ardire and junior 
defenseman Chris Adukaitis within the 
first minute of play to wake the team up. 
The Stars answered quickly, and the 
Star player who scored would also pick 
up three more offensive tallies in the 
night. The Tartans went on to score 
three unanswered goals (junior Anthony 
Paul from junior winger Relja Ivanovic 
and sophomore Scott Fitzgerald; Ardire 
unassisted; sophomore defenseman 
Bryan Campo from Ivanovic). Ivanovic, 
with two assists, started a scoring streak 
that would extend throughout the next 
three games. Later he would have two 
goals but miss completing the hat trick, 
a trend for the games to come.
With assistant captain Adukaitis in 
the box for a slashing call, the Stars took 
advantage of their power play and scored,
iro ikhwkeuN 2roohoS a9 k aLuRBkS Bl lkeuN unkwoS wB vb2wBh9 kkbeuw 1EUN C-4I
shaking up CMU to take two more pucks 
to the back of the oppositions net. 
Fitzgerald drove and scored unassisted, 
and two minutes later Jim Buck took a 
pretty feed from Maddalena, sinking 
another to match.
Later, Adukaitis took a huge centerice collision and skated to the bench 
clutching his back. He would be out with 
a strain for a week. This placed the 
Tartans in a vulnerable position, be
cause losing their premiere defenseman 
left them with only six defensemen avail
able. Everybody needed to play tight. 
Offense was key. With four minutes to 
go in the second, Ivanovic slapped in the 
puck from Maddalena and Buck, send
ing CMU into the locker room with a 7 
3 lead.
Down a key player, the Tartans were 
frazzled in the third. Ardire took shot 
after shot on the belabored Stars goalie 
but couldnt seem to get 
anything by. The same 
went for graduate stu
dent Chris Cramer, who 
had nine shots for the 
evening but no points. 
Halfway through the 
third, the holes in the 
defense started to show. 
Frustration mounted 
when, after a scuffle be
hind the CMU net, 
sophomore defenseman 
Paul Voulgaris was 
down on the ice. 
Voulgaris skated pain
fully to the bench and 
was treated immedi'Bur ghoockevikhwke drBwBhksroh ately. Theannounce
ment at South Side hospital: a bruised shoulder, sling for a 
week, rest, and no hockey for a while. He 
may be out until CMU faces Allegheny 
College in two weeks.
After seeing the Stars score three un
answered goals in the third, Ardire took 
action. On a feed from linemates Buck 
and Maddalena, Ardire took the disk 
home to make the score a safer 8-6. But 
the damage to the CMU starting line 
continued as Buck, the teams leading 
scorer, turned his ankle on a play in the 
corner. He would be out for a game.
The Stars had lost their shine and 
wanted to get physical, pushing and 
shoving their way towards the net. CMU 
goalie Jon Kliegman continued to deny 
them, ending with 35 saves. And to ice 
the evening, with 26 seconds left, Relja 
tapped in his second, from Ray Fares, 
ending the game with a personal-best 
four points. The final score read 9-6, 
Tartans.
The next afternoons exhibition game 
against the Stars saw the opposition 
skating for revenge. They hadnt beaten 
the Tartans all season. The Tartans were 
missing defensemen Adukaitis and 
Voulgaris as well as winger Buck. The 
other players knew that they had to step 
up, and they did. George Paulic and 
Campo took over for the defense, while 
another defenseman, graduate student 
and assistant captain Blair Echols, 
scored an unassisted first period goal. 
One minute later, Ardire found his home 
on a pass from Maddalena.
A shifting of lines brought freshman 
winger Andy Oxnard up to the front, and 
Ardire moved him towards the net to 
score in the second. Maddalena, after 
being denied on previous breakaways,
took another point with an unassisted 
goal to end the second period.
The second line, struggling in the first 
two periods, were the saviors in the 
third. Leading them was Anthony Paul, 
who assisted on the tying goal from 
Ivanovic and also scored the gamewifr 
ner on a feed from defenseman Paulic.
The Tartans breathed a weary sigh of 
relief about the preservation of their 
record. Sophomore goalie Derek Jander 
snagged his first full game win with 34 
saves. The Stars outshot the Tartansj 
but good goaltending and strong twoway playing from all ended the game in 
CMUs favor, 6-5.
The big game came Saturday night at 
Neville Arena in South Side. Slippery 
Rock University was looking to break 
the Tartans flawless division record. 
The fan bus had arrived, and the CMU 
supporters were making themselves 
heard, drowning out the oppositions 
chants of Rock! By the second period, 
the SRU supporters didnt have much to 
cheer about, anyway.
The first minute of play set the prece 
dent for a quick pace and heads-up playOn the first shift, the second line scored 
with center Fitzgerald finding IvanoviCj 
Adukaitis and Buck returned for the 
Slippery Rock game, and their physic* 
presence was felt all around. Although 
neither ended up with points on the 
evening, both worked doggedly through 
their pains. The first period sped along; 
with Ardire charging the net with some 
help from goaltender Kliegman and 
defenseman Campo to score his fourth 
goal in three games. He would later have 
a fifth, again from Campo, who sat on 
dRokuo uoo -f/OtN page9

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pe
By ANNE MARIE DEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
Its important for an artist to have an 
audience, said senior art major Anne 
Lopez. A lot of times its just your art 
peers, the people who work next to you 
in studio [who see your work]. Its a good 
experience to have friends not familiar 
with your work see it. The main way a 
student artist can show his or her work 
is by displaying it in one of the campus 
art galleries, Forbes, Ellis or Hewlett 
galleries.
Forbes Gallery shows student work 
exclusively. Lopez, also co-director of 
the gallery, said the that the gallery is a 
great oppurtunity for the artist to show 
his/her work, because it is what they 
have been working towards for four 
years. The gallery gives artists a less 
expensive practice run at what they will 
possibly be doing for the rest of their 
lives. Just as in a professional gallery, 
students are required to submit propos
als for their shows.
The displays at Forbes Gallery fea
ture works by senior art majors this 
semester, as they do every spring. Groups 
of two or three artists will be shown a 
week at a time. Dates were assigned by 
lottery after proposals were received.
In the fall, anyone can apply for a show 
at the gallery. Artists must also submit 
proposals, and a faculty panel evaluates 
them. Students take on the expenses of 
the show and the responsibility of orga
nizing, displaying, and cleaning up.
Forbes Gallery is a student run orga
nization. Lopez serves as co-director 
along with fifth-year architecture senior 
Yen Ha. Other positions include Busi
ness Manager and Public Relations Di
rector. Lopez said, [being involved with 
the gallery] is a benefit to the staff. Its 
like an internship  it gives you the 
experience of running a gallery.
The first show of the spring semester 
opens this Tuesday. The gallery, located 
on the comer of Forbes Avenue and 
Margaret Morrison street is open 12-6 
on Tuesday, Thursday, Friday, and Sat
urday, 10:30-6 on Wednesday and 12-3 
on Sunday. Receptions are held on Fri
days from 7 pm to 9 pm.
Kathryn Sitter coordinates Ellis Gal
lery and the displays in various aca
demic buildings. I love to see art around 
campus, and in buildings beside CFA, 
because we are getting art familiar to 
those not familiar with it, she said. 
What better way than peer contact? 
Student art work has appeared in the 
hallways of CFA, Doherty Hall, Posner
Hall, and in the libraries on campus. 
Often times the displays are linked to 
class projects and have a running theme.
Ellis Gallery, located on the third floor 
of CFA, is run by the art department and 
shows student work. Like Forbes Gal
lery, students must submit proposals 
and take on all of the responsibilities for 
the displays. It is open Monday through 
Friday from 9 am to 5 pm. Schedules of 
displays for Ellis and the hallways can 
be found outside the art office, on the 
departments web page (http://wwwart.cfa.cmu.edu), and on the bboard 
academic, art.
Hewlett Gallery, located on the first 
floor of CFA, shows mostly professional 
artists works. Coordinator Petra Fallaux 
said, It is important to expose students 
to contemporary art and to have a facil
ity on campus thats easily accessible. 
The displays for Hewlett are chosen 
by an interdisciplinary committee rep
resenting the five departments of CFA 
after a call for proposals. Out of 50 pro
posals received this year, about five were 
from students and about five will be 
chosen. Displays often include disciplines 
besides art, including design and drama.
The current display in Hewlett is en
titled 19 Solar Years, a multimedia 
dRokuo uoo D!>>OETO1N sko>2Hy 1BRkh tokhu a9 frb2kB khwbuwN :hok BJoeuwobeI'kuBe 1oboeSBhlv ikhwke drBwB OSbwBh
Inside this week...
Learning services 
explored 
Cracking the Myth 
Pulp Free
also...
Review of Black Sheep 
DH 2210 
White Squall Review 
and 
Hair Review
Students find ample theater experience at CMU
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Staffwriter
One would expect to findprolifictheatreatCamegie 
Mellon, which has one of the best drama schools in 
the country. Between the drama departments shows 
on the Kresge stage and in the Studio Theatre, and 
Scotch n Soda, the student run and organized the
atre group, CMU boasts a creative and dynamic 
theatre scene.
The first two years of a CMU drama students 
college career are devoted to training and study. 
They only start acting [on stage] in their junior and 
senior years," says Lori Holland of the Drama Dept. 
Thats when youll find them in the Studio Theatre 
(juniors) and on the Kresge stage (mostly seniors). 
Studio theatre shows are, for the most part, directed 
by graduate students in directing. Most grad stu
dents will direct about one play per semester in the 
Studio Theatre. Im working on my third [this 
year], says first year grad director Dexter Fidler.
The Studio Theatre shows are split between previ
ously produced works by established playwrights 
(John Osbornes Look Back in Anger will be produced 
later in the semester) and plays by one of CMUs 
eight graduate playwriting students, who are guar
anteed production of at least one one-act and one 
full-length play in the Studio Theatre while they are 
at CMU.
Once a year, there is also a production in the 
Studio Theatre starring actors in CMUs one-year 
Master of Fine Arts acting program, and is directed 
by a faculty member or guest director. (This year, it 
was Arthur Millers The 
Crucible, directed by 
Elizabeth Orion.) That 
production then goes to 
Moscow, says Holland,
where the MFA actors 
spend a full semester.
Almost all Studio The
atre shows are free of 
charge. There is one ap
proximately every two 
weeks.
There are usually six 
shows on the Kresge 
Mainstage per year, all 
plays or musicals by es
tablished writers. Two are 
final projects directed by 
senior graduate directors, 
and the others are directed 
by faculty members or 
guest directors. On the 
schedule for this semester are F ederico Garca Lorcas 
Yerma, Jerry Bocks She Loves Me, and Agatha 
Christies Cat Among Pigeons.
jusn rranzus/rnuiu prupeny ui LowLwS mubiu
WkwwroJ Lrou ku !Raohw ohhbeI
Kresge shows have reserved seating, and student 
ticket prices range from $5 to $7.
Scotch N Soda is an entirely student run theatre 
company, headed by an eight-member board of di
rectors. The organization sponsors 
several projects per year, including 
one show (usually a musical) to be 
produced during Carnival Weekend.: 
This year, that show is Chess by. 
Benny Anderson, BjomUlvaeus and 
Tim Rice, directed by S N S presi
dent Lawenda Jones.
Other projects on the agenda inv 
elude Bundt Cake, a series of staged 
readings of work by student writers 
to take place on February 16-18.  
Scotch N Soda recently added aii 
improv troupe to its list of board-- 
sponsored activities, a list that alsci 
includes Woodscotch, once-a-semes;- 
ter display of diverse S N S talent),' 
and Playworks, weekly workshops 
that focus on various aspects of the; 
atre work.
We hope to have anyone partici
pate in our activities, says S NSecretary Amy Poettinger. Any interested students 
should contact the S N S office at 268-3522, for more1 
information.
L LLLLm u r\
namrasgm 6o9ao5 0e6o glg,o1el someov
Hy 1BRkh tokhu" a9 frb2kB khwbuwN :hok BJoeuwobeI'kuBe 1oboSBhlv ikhwke drBwB OSbwBh
Student galleries provide outlets for artistic expression

---------------------------------------------------

4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 1996
Students expand horizons with Fifth Years Program
Bjy SUSAN WATSON
Tartan Staffwriter
The Fifth Year Scholar Program al
lows exceptional students in the CMU 
community to remain at the university 
for one year following their completion 
of their respective undergraduate pro
grams. During their fifth year, these 
distinguished scholars are able to take 
ctjurses that they were unable to take 
during undergraduate years at CMU. 
TJiey must also work on a project 
throughout their fifth year that will 
somehow better CMU. The Scholars are 
provided a $5,000 fellowship as well as 
frbe tuition.
(Currently, there are four Fifth Year 
Scholars for the 95-96 school year and 
five for the 96-97 school year. Students 
are selected based on an application and 
interview process. The program offers a 
vast range of opportunities for students 
who have diverse talents and areas of 
study.
Selection for the program is based on 
academics, involvement in extracurricu
lar activities, and a strong project pro
posal.
Aaron Kozbelt, a current Fifth Year 
Scholar who majored in Cognitive Psy
chology during his undergraduate years 
atj CMU and is focusing on art and music 
hjstory during his fifth year, feels the 
program offers endless academic possi
bilities for students. He said, The pro
gram is ideal for people with multiple 
interests. Its a great way to allow stu
dents to study more than one thing.
"By working with the CMU community 
as well, the Scholars also believe that 
th^ir Fifth year has the potential to 
contribute to their personal growth. 
Michael Leonard, a senior mathematics 
an$ technical writing major explains, 
My dad always said to me, Ninety perce^jt of what you learn at college comes 
frgp the people, not the books. He taught 
m^jto go out, explore, and be the best I 
cqfl be by learning from other people. By 
bsmg a Fifth Year Scholar, I will learn so 
m^ch from the people I interact with.
eonard, who will be focusing on Soci
ology, Management, and Religious Stud
ies, hopes to make strides towards com
bating the student apathy problem that 
prevails at CMU. Leonard began prepa
rations for his project last year by con
ducting a survey that revealed many 
areas of CMU life in which students are 
dissatisfied. He said, It seems students
out the details.
Leonard realizes his goal is not one 
that can be achieved within a short 
amount of time. He said, For the most 
part, this project is for the community. 
We want to make steps, set a ground
work. Maybe by the year 2000, students 
wont have
have complaints about everything from 
Dining Services to the male/female ra
tio. I hope to work with the student 
government and with students to fix 
these problems and to eliminate student 
dissatisfaction.
Leonard also hopes to make freshmen 
more aware of CMU. He said, I also 
plan to work with Residence Life to im
prove freshman orientation. We dont 
think students are getting the impor
tant information they need to know about 
Counseling, EMS, the HUB, and Resi
dence Assistants. The reason people 
dont know is because of orientation. I 
hope to make it a little more interesting. 
The project is still in its rough stages, 
but in a couple months Ill be able to iron
so preva
lent.
During her 
fifth year, Jill 
Go o d a l 1 
plans to work 
with the Act i v i t i e s 
Board and 
the Office of 
Student Ac
tivities to im
prove publi
cizing cam
pus events to 
the campus 
community. 
She is cur
rently a se
nior psychol
ogy major 
and plans to 
concentrate 
on public re
lations next 
year. She 
said, I am using both my fourth and 
fifth years to pursue a concentration in 
public relations. I feel that psychology 
has been a good background, but I dont 
want a career in it. I would really like to 
work in public relations, so Im taking a 
variety of classes in English and design, 
as well as some at the Heinz School. Im 
also going to be doing internships. 
These projects allow the scholars to 
have a profound effect on the CMU com
munity. Kozbelts project enabled him to 
design and teach a course. His topic for 
the course was creativity. It was con
structed with the notion of enhancing 
the fairly new Bachelor of Humanities 
and Arts Program.
Kozbelt has been a TA at CMU for six
Wkhn Oohwvikhwke !hw 1wkll
semesters, but explains that being the 
actual designer and teacher of a course 
is a tremendous thrill. He said, The 
best thing about this program for me 
was the whole experience of designing 
and teaching this class. If I could pick 
one class to teach, it would be the one I 
taught. Things like not knowing struc
ture would appeal to the class and then 
seeing the transition as they got what 
the class was about were just so great. It 
sort of gives me a warm fuzzy feeling 
inside. Being able to run my own class 
was such a thrill.
In addition to this project, Kozbelt is 
also working as the Residence Coordi
nator of the University Choice Program. 
This program is in its beginning stages, 
and is in the process of developing an 
identity on campus. Kozbelt said, Its 
kind of like the BHA program. This 
program allows students to combine a 
concentration in H&SS with one from 
any other school. It is ideal for people 
with a broad range of interests because 
it allows access to more than one col
lege.
However, unlike the BHA program, 
the University Choice program includes 
a residential component. The students 
who are participants of the program li ve 
in Mudge. Kozbelt organizes guest 
speaker visits, educational projects, as 
well as recreational activities for the 
residents.
Though he has a full schedule for his 
fifth year here, Kozbelt has no com
plaints. He said, This is just the great
est thing for me. Its an extraordinary 
experience. It is truly the best experi
ence I could have. It may have been time 
consuming, but I honestly havent no
ticed because its so enjoyable.
The Fifth Year Scholars also meet on 
a monthly basis and are working to
gether on a project that will provide an 
area devoted to the history of CMU in 
the new university center. This will be 
the first concurrent project on which 
the scholars have worked.
For more information on the Fifth 
Year Scholar Program, contact the Of
fice of Student Affairs.
Galleries at 
CMU show 
student art
E9ke ErBkSuvikhwke gokwLhou fB-OSbwBh 
D!>>OETO1NlhBc sko >T 
installation by Chicago artist Drea 
Howenstein. Howenstein trails^ 
formed the space by painting the 
walls various shades of blue with' a 
turkey baster and putting blue gdlp 
in the skylights. The sound composi
tion, by Bob Snyder, adds to the 
theme of cycles that runs throughout 
the work.
19 Solar Years runs throughFebruary 10. The next installation, Al
chemical Blue by Janet Towbiri, will 
start on Februaiy 15. Hewlett Gal
lery is open Monday through Friday 
11:30-5 and 11:30-4 on Saturday 
and Sunday. Hewlett Gallery is sup
ported by the CFA deans office and 
the Pennsylvania Council for the 
Arts.
Sitter said, It is not hard for a 
student to have his or her work shown 
on campus. Students dont realize all 
they have to do is take some initia
tive. Lopez encourages everyone to 
attend the gallery showings. A lot of 
students would be amazed at what 
their artist friends do, she said. 
Some of these people could be fa
mous someday. Go check them out.
Worried about what you eat? 
Concerned about your body image? 
Exercising too much? 
Lauren Lazar Stern, M.A.
Specialist in Eating Disorders 
Individual and Group Therapy
FREE CONSULTATION
311 South Craig Street 
Convenient to CMU 
Call 361-8040 for information
poetry - 
papers 
short stories 
artwork
2BevB2kwBhbk 
2kRR lBh oewhbou
wohwLRbk bu eBJ k22oswbe sksohu Bh 2hokwbvovvbuLkR 
ckwohbkRu wB ao 2BeubSohoS lBh sLaRb2kwbBe be bwu lbhuw 
buuLoN sRkeeoS lBh !shbR HCN HyyCI
rPennsylvania Governor's School for the Sciencees (PGSS)
UeSohhkSLkwo uLccoh ocsRB9coew kw fkheobo WoRRBe Uebvohubw9 bu 
kvkbRkaRo Jbwr wro doeeu9Rvkebk DBvoheBh'u 12rBBR lBh wro 12boe2ouI iro 
d(m11 bu k lbvo  Joon uLccoh u2rBBR lBh oxwhocoR9 wkRoewoS rbr u2rBBR 
ulLSoewu lhBc doeeu9RvkebkI io2rbe !uubuwkewvfBLeuoRBh kssBbewcoewu kho 
kvkbRkaRo be wro khoku Bl abBRB9N 2rocbuwh9N sr9ub2uN 2BcsLwoh u2boe2o keS 
ckwrockwb2uI
!ssRb2kewu urBLRS rkvo lbeburoS wrobh uBsrcBho 9okh a9 wro uwkhw Bl 
wro shBhkcI dholohoe2o JbRR ao bvoe wB kssRb2kewu Jbwr BLwuwkeSbe k2k
Socb2 ho2BhSuI tBL JbRR ao oxso2woS wB ubcLRwkeoBLuR9 uohvo ku SBhcbwBh9 
2BLeuoRBh keS wB Rbvo be wro ukco SBhcbwBh9 ku wro dD11 uwLSoewuN uoo wrkw 
weo dD11 Sbu2bsRbekh9 hLRou kho kSrohoS wBN shBvbSo wLwBhbkR roRs be wro 
S2kSocb2 shBhkcN keS 2BeSL2w shBhkc keS uB2bkR k2wbvbwbouI
Stipend for fiveandonehalf week period: 
$1200$1600 
(Depending on experience) 
Free room and board. 
PGSS is in session from June 30 to August 3. 
Counselor duties begin June 26, end August 3.
2 !ssRb2kwbBeu kho kvkbRkaRo be WoRRBe TeuwbwLwo 27HI
gBh lLhwroh belBhckwbBeN 2Bewk2w Dohh9 EoeunBN OxwI 2CxCCCyI
Application Deadline: March 15, 1996.
:okSRbeo: goahLkh9 H2N HyyC
jBLhekR Bl rbuskeb2N Rkwbe kcohb2ke keS uskebur uwLSbou
LwVLNPb
wohwLRbkN Lek sLaRb2k2be Rbwohkhbk So Rk UebvohubSkS 
So fkcobo WoRRBe sLaRb2k khw2LRBuN houokuN whk
akjBu So bevouwbk2be 9 woxwBu 2hokwbvBu sBh ouwL
Sbkewou uLahkSLkSBuN hkSLkSBu 9 cbocahBu So 
Rku lk2LRwkSou uBaho 2LkRqLboh kuso2wB So Rk 2LRwLhk 
rbuskekN RkwbeBkcohb2kek 9 ouskBRkI fBcB 2LR
wLhk oewoeSocBu RbwohkwLhkN khwo 2beockwBhlb2BN 
aoRRku khwouN cub2kN sBRwb2kN kewhBsBRBkN rbuwBhbkN 
lbRBuBlkN whkSb2bBeou 9 hoRbbeI
wohwLRbkN k Rbwohkh9 jBLhekR kw fkcobo WoRRBe 
Uebvohubw9 sLaRburou khwb2RouN aBBn hovboJuN 
houokh2r keS 2hokwbvo JBhn a9 LeSohhkSLkwouN 
hkSLkwouN lk2LRw9 keS uwkll Be ke9 kuso2w Bl 
buskeb2N >kwbe !cohb2ke keS 1skebur 2LRwLhouI 
fLRwLhoN ku bw bu JbSoR9 SolbeoSN be2RLSbe RbwohkwLhoN 
lbRcN khwN cLub2N sBRbwb2uN kewrhBsBRB9N rbuwBh9N srb
RBuBsr9I whkSbwbBeuN keS hoRbbBeI
for more information contact]
Sabino Celaya-Barturen sc6w 
Teresa Pena tp27

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 1996
Learning Services helps students 
gain efficiency in study skills
F9 ANDREW WANG
Tartan Staffwriter
Little-known to most CMU stu
dents is a powerful resource pro
vided by CMU that could help 
them to improve their aca
demics through the applica
tion pf effective study skills, 
timeimanagement skills, and 
other academic strategies. 
CMU Learning Services of
fers one to one study skills 
tutoring, fact filled study 
skills pamphlets, special pro
grams and workshops, and 
advocacy for learning dis
abled students at CMU.
The one to one study skills 
tutoring program provides a 
confidential and relaxed at
mosphere, helping students 
to apply more effective and 
efficient study strategies and 
techniques to their academ
ics. Weve had good results with 
people who interested and moti
vated to change, said Marcia 
Wratcher, Director of Learning 
Services.
The tutoring program has 
helped students from a wide vari
ety of different academic situa
tions to achieve academic suc
cess. One of Learning Services 
most impressive successes has
been to help a student who was 
placed on academic probation to 
be placed on the Deans List the 
next semester.
Because most students at 
CMU have been so successful,
leges, in residence halls, and 
through student organizations 
every semester. This semesters 
programs are focused on reading 
and study skills.
Support, such as supplemental 
learning materials and ex
tra time on exams, is also 
provided by Learning Ser
vices for students with 
learning disabilities such as 
dyslexia and attention defi
cit disorder. Learning Ser
vices is currently helping 
65 students with learning 
disabilities.
Were a student oriented 
servicewere here for the 
students. You dont have to 
wait a longtime to get help, 
said Wratcher. Learning 
services provides FAST 
Facts, a series of study skills 
pamphlets which are availE9ke ErBkSuvikhwke gokwLhou fB-oSbwBh able 24 hours a day outside
they really have not consciously 
thought of their study skills, said 
Wratcher. Learning Services has 
even enabled students who are 
already doing well academically 
to do even better through more 
efficient and effective academic 
skills.
Learning Services offers spe
cial study-related programs and 
workshops through various colof the Office of Learning Services 
at Building D159. Furthermore, 
they provide prompt responses 
throughout the week, even dur
ing evenings and weekends.
For more information on the 
programs that Learning Services 
offers, call x8-6878, email 
mw2v@andrew.cmu.edu or visit 
the Office of Learning Services at 
f. D-159.
Students learn to appreciate cigars
By JOHN BIGGS
Tartan Forum Editor
Smoking a cigar makes me feel like a million 
bucks, said Churchill Club of Western Pennsylva
nia president, Kit Mueller. In an era of bad feelings 
towards smoking in general, this club bucks con
vention and hopes to 
promote cigar smoking, 
something Mueller de
scribed as a fine art, in 
Pittsburgh and abroad.
Founded in October of 
1995, this growinggroup 
has a membership rang
ing from CEOs to high 
school kids. Alarge num
ber of the members are 
CMU graduate students 
and some undergradu
ates, but Mueller hopes 
to broaden his member 
base on campus. He says 
that some of the major
selling points of the club Amit Kar/ Tartan Business Manager
are an opportunity to network and a chance to 
break the myth that cigar-smokingis for granddad 
and dirty old men.
Mueller began his club to provide a nice atmo
sphere to socialize and enjoy cigars. While other 
cigars clubs were owned and operated by cigar 
companies, the Churchill Club is not designed 
around one brand, although the Churchill brand is 
prefered. Named after the cigar-puffing prime min
ister, the club will hold informal smokers and more 
formal dinners regularly. At each event cigar 
experts will be on hand to answer questions and
give smoking advice. The formal dinners will fea
ture a meal at a ritzy restaurant downtown as well 
as a few speakers, including a member of the cigar, 
industry and possibly some celebrities.
The club is open to anyone interested. The fledg
ling smoker can attend the monthly informal smok
ers at the Pittsburgh Deli Company 
where admission will get you a free 
cigar and good conversation. Mueller 
and the executive commitee of the 
club purchase the cigars at the deal
ers cost and sell them at cost, in order 
to make the smokers and dinners as 
inexpensive as possible. The informal 
smokers will have experts on hand to 
tell the sordid and fascinating story of 
the cigar.
Much like a wine-tasting club, the 
Churchill Club hopes to give a finer,
range of appreciation to the art of 
smoking. Its an activity, said 
Mueller. It takes a good half-hour to 
finish a good one, so its also a commit-,, 
ment. Muellers favorite cigar, the 
Romeo and Jullietta Churchill, is just one of the*' 
varieties that will be available to members. Mueller 
made it clear that even if your experience is limited \ 
to Phillies Blunts and Swischer Sweets, anyone is' 
welcome. The club, says Mueller, is focused on 
bringing people of individual tastes together forthe common pleasure of a fine cigar.
The Club has an informational hot-line at 361- , 
2723 and a home page. Membership fee is $25, ' 
which includes the cost of formal dinners and other 
events.
yra,o9r5 optmIso 4Ii IttIsra9ereo5 ,ase90 ngsoos EooS 3xxBy TRICIA DAVIS
Tartan Staffwriter
This week Carnegie Mellon students 
will have the opportunity to learn about 
career planning, job opportunities, 
graduate studies, and much more, from 
experienced professionals, community 
leaders,-and alumni. With 45 different 
iprograms and speakers from 18 differcompanies, Career Week 96 has 
programs that will benefit everybody.
A tremendous amount of work went 
into organizing Career Week 96, and I 
encourage students to take advantage 
of it. There will be programs for stu
dents of all areas and all levels of study, 
said Beth Miller, coordinator of Career 
Week 96.
Miller and other consultants from the 
Career Center began planning this 
years programs in October. Then, in 
early November, Miller sent out flyers 
to all of the departments on campus 
asking for ideas about Career Week 96. 
Miller said, Some of the departments 
organized their own programs and some 
were done in collaboration with us.
Besides obtaining input from the vari
ous departments, Miller listened care
fully to students requests. She said, 
Career Week is strictly for the benefit 
of students. When students expressed
interest in specific 
areas, we took the 
initiative to in
clude a program to 
suit their needs.
Miller, a career 
consultant for stu
dents in the Col
lege of Humanities 
and Social Sci
ences, speaks to 
students daily 
about their inter
ests. Over and 
over again stu
dents expressed in
terest in multime
dia and human re
sources careers,so 
this year we in
cluded programs in 
those areas.
Senior psychol
ogy major, Marcy 
Sensenick, had 
this to say about 
Career Week: Im 
looking forward to 
it because Id like 
to find out what I
can do with a psychology degree. Also, 
the programs about interviewing will
try to get as much 
student feedback as 
we can. We take 
the evaluations and 
any suggestion very 
seriously, said 
Miller.
The core pro
grams, such as re
sume writing and 
interviews, are be
ing offered two 
times throughout 
the week so that all 
students can take 
advantage of them. 
If students miss a 
particular pro
gram, there is a pos
sibility that the 
Career Center may 
have copies of the 
handouts.
Miller expects 
that one program in 
particular will be 
especially reward
ing. On Wednes
day, February 7, 
E9ke ErBkSuvikhwke gokwLhou fB-oSbwBh from 7 to 8:30 pm 
vous. Martin Yate, author of the New York
Every program will have evaluations Times best selling job hunting book, 
be helpful because I tend to get neravailable for students to complete. We Knock em Dead, will be speaking in
GSIA160, Simon Auditorium. Yate will 
talk about strategies for finding a job ' 
and building a life in the 90s . ^/l'
Another big attraction will likely be 
the Pittsburgh Technology Job Fair, held ', 
on Tuesday, February 6, from 10:00 am" " 
to 4:00 pm in the Student Center Drill 
Deck. 35 high technology compani 
will speak with students seeking pro
fessional employment in the Pittsburgh 
area. Students should dress profession1'; 
ally and bring their resumes.
Edson Lo, a freshman computer sci: 
enee major said, Im looking forward to , 
the Technology Fair, mainly because ; 
Im looking for a summer job. Career [ 
Week has a lot for me to chose from. I  
currently dont have a resume, so Im ! 
going to look into the resume program, i 
too.
Im interested in getting feedback on ' 
my resume and learning more about : 
graduate school. My only complaint is ; 
that Id like to see an H&SS job fair. I | 
dont feel the Career Center does enough j 
for H&SS students. Fortunately, my 
departments have been really helpful, ; 
said Natalie Moyer, a senior, anthropolj 
ogy/history major.
Senior creative writing major, Kate j 
Rollenhagen, expressed a similar sentij 
ment. She said, I wish there were more \ 
dRokuo uoo f!EOOEN sko >4 H
Vollum e 9m0,Iu,
RIa ByJ BOHJN OJ
sl1 5ICma
Choose a dentist you can count on for life. Call the office of Michael S. Melnick, D.M.D. Youll 
meet a dentist who combines the latest in dental technology with something that cant be measured 
by a test or a machinea dedication to treating you as a human being, not just a set of teeth.
BOARD CERTIFIED-PAIN MANAGEMENT
Fellow-Academy of General Dentistry 
Diplomate-American Academy of Pain Management 
Master-Academy of General Dentistry 
Fellow-International College of Craniomandibular Orthopedics 
Fellow-Academy of Dentistry International 
Fellow-Pierre Fauchard Academy
MICHAEL S. MELNICK
D.M.D., M.A.G.D.
!z: !11-fT!iO1
! iokc Bl TeSosoeSoew dhk2wbwbBeohu 
iro dkhn dRkzk 1Lbwo 207 
H2x zBhwr fhkb 1whoow 
dbwwuaLhrN d! Hp2Hm
(412) 688-9000 OR (412) 687-8888 A Carnegie Mellon Graduate with a Tradition of Excellence 
(800) 732-7645
VbukI :bu2BvohI zBvLuN !cohb2ke Oxshouu !22oswoSI Tewohouw-lhoo sk9coew sRkeu kvkbRkaRoI
GENERAL DENTISTRY
 T.M.J. (Temporomandibular Joint) Disorders 
 Porcelain and Gold Crowns and Bridges 
 Orthodontics for Adults and Children 
 Endodontic (Root Canal) Treatment
 Periodontal (Gum) Therapy
 I.V. Sedation/Anesthesia
 Cosmetic Dentistry
 Pediatric Dentistry
 Oral Surgery
 An Outpatient Comprehensive 
Multidisciplinary Pain Treatment Center 
Accredited by the American Academy of 
Pain Management
 Highest Standards for Infection Control 
& SterilizationOffice Inspected Thru 
Voluntary OSHA Compliance Program
 Nitrous Oxide Sedation
 l.V. Conscious Sedation Under Personal 
Supervision of a Hospital Trained 
Anesthesiologist
 Medical StaffShadyside Hospital
Day and Evening Hours by Appointment
 Security Building  Indoor Valet Parking
 Most Insurance Plans Accepted
drBwB a9 'Beku  Hyyp Wb2rk2R 1I W2Reb2nI :IWI:I

---------------------------------------------------

L4The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 1996
Dylans resurrection could 
inspire student population
PULP FREE
By Eric Salzman
Who killed 
JBob Dylan and
 'why doesnt 
i .this school 
have a beach?
Could you 
; imagine the 
possibilities of 
; a beach on this 
; campus, or 
Dylans teach! -'ihg a class? 
i We can all 
; walk around
 '"campus naked 
! /"Avhen the 
^v'weather gets warm. We never see
see each other anyway. When 
f trucking across the cut, all we see 
\ is the clock and how dangerously 
; close it is getting to that very 
; nifty time when the next class
 starts. I bet that if Bob Dylan
 Were a professor here, he wouldnt 
j mind if students were late to class.
 "He probably wouldnt show up 
] 1 too often himself.
; / Or, if we had a beach, students 
I -, might not even want to go to
bRR*
ally were in our bikinis and swim
suits. Wed surf the day away and 
make heaven reaching bonfires 
at night.
The marshmallows we could 
roast would light a path for birds 
to follow in from the sea in the 
night sky. And Dylan would come 
sing to us every night with a 
guitar under his arm, a har
monica in his mouth, and words 
off his tongue that only the stoned
class. Instead we would all hang 
out in the sand, pretending to be 
naked but knowing that we re
or tripped could comprehend  
and even they wouldnt remem
ber.
Wed all wake up the very next 
day wondering where we were, 
but upon seeing the ocean, and of 
course our illustrious Dean Dylan 
(I think he already deserves a 
promotion) wed feel calm enough 
to cook breakfast. Together, a 
thousand sandy students would 
trudge across the waters to High
lander for a daily feast of bacon 
and eggs just and eggs for the 
vegetarians and kosher among 
us just the and for the vegans.
After breakfast with nothing to 
do but sit around the beach as 
Dean Dylan is sure to cancel 
classes, we could pick a cause to 
protest. Well sit around and block 
doors, chant songs, and again 
roast marshmallows.
Unimart will have to open an 
extra aisle just to stock all of the 
marshmallows we would buy. Ev
eryone will have a favorite flavor, 
whether it be strawberry, choco
late, or plain old 
vanilla. Well 
debate whether 
Bingo is the 
farmer or the 
dog, concepts of 
abortion, who 
looks better in a 
dress  Drew 
Barrymore or 
Patrick Swayze, 
or maybe why 
our government 
loves us so much 
that it always 
protects us from 
harm.
Were blessed so let us rejoice. 
Build a beach! Dig a way to the 
ocean. Have Pepsi on hand at all 
times. Please, please, please com
mission Mr. Dylan to come to us. 
Nobody even knows he was in a 
band before Wings. Who cares if 
hes not even on the show any
more. Maybe hell come back to 
visit Brandon. We can save him. 
He can save us. Well all build a 
beach and be well.
Eric Salzman is a junior phi
losophy major.
Ryan Rhoads/Tartan Features Co-editor
Students uncover future jobs with help from Career Center
f!EOOEN 2BewbeLoS lhBc sko >m
programs about career opportunities for students 
graduating with an English degree.
The H&SS Student Advisory Council (SAC) is in 
the process of organizing a job fair specifically for 
H&SS and MCS students. Its definitely in the 
works. We hope to have it organized for this fall, 
.. said Terry Lumish, member of SAC, and a junior 
policy management major. Interested students 
can make their suggestions known to SAC, their 
departments and the Career Center.
In response to students complaints, Miller said, 
Its frustrating. We recently restructured the 
Career Center so now there is one person as
signed to each academic area on campus. This is 
a positive step toward addressing individual stu
dents needs and following them through.
The Career Center consultant staff and their 
assigned areas are Karen Litzinger, College of 
Fine Arts; John Michalenko, Carnegie Institute 
of Technology; Cindy Smith, Industrial Management; and two unnamed consultants have yet to 
i  be hired to replace the recently departed consultants for the School of Computer Science and 
- Mellon College of Science.
Miller had this to say about the employers they 
asked to visit campus this week. Miller said,The 
employers were asked to speak from an employers 
-' perspective in general, instead of focusing on the 
view of their own particular company.
The Technology Job Fair, which was not orga* nized by the Career Center, will follow a different 
' format. The company leaders speaking at the 
Technology Job Fair will be offering information 
'about their companies and will be examining 
 students resumes. It [Technology Job Fair] was 
put on by the Pittsburgh High Technology Coun
cil. We have never done a job fair, but were 
' willing to be consultants, said Miller.
After spending several months organizing Ca
reer Week 96, Miller is pleased with the results. 
She said, We couldnt have done this without all 
of the help we received from the campus commu
nity and the organizations that volunteered that 
time.
Whether youre planning your career or looking 
for volunteer, internship, and summer job oppor
tunities, Career Week 96 is the place to go to 
charter your course. This week you can plan your 
future and you can do it right here on campus.
!cbw /khvikhwke FLubeouu Wkekohwhereyouworking f summer?
foSkh dBbew rku Bvoh 3.500 jBa Bsoebeu lBh wro uLccoh Bl 
1996I dRLuN Jo rkvo rBLube kvkbRkaRo lBh ocsRB9oou 18 9okhu 
Bl ko keS BRSohI FLw cBho bcsBhwkewN bewohvboJu lBh kRR 
uLccoh jBau kho 2Bcbe Ls uBBeN keS wro uBBeoh 9BL 
bewohvboJN wro aowwoh 9BLh 2rke2ou Bl owwbe wro jBa 9BL Jkew 
cBuwI 1B 2Bco wkRn wB LuN keS 9BL ck9 lbeS wro keuJoh wB 
wrkw ekbe qLouwbBeI
TewohvboJu JbRR ao roRS kw:
BRbSk9 Tee
100 >9wwBe !voeLoN 12roeRo9 FkRRhBBc 
WBeSk9N goahLkh9 5 
12 eBBe - 7 sIcI
No appointment necessary. EOE. For more employment information. 
>i!i 1-800-668-JOBS 0! visit our Web site: http: vvww.cedarpoint.com
1keSLun9I -rbB
be Soube?
~ .2llbV H  uoo 9BL h 
Soubeu be shbew?
a mta wdP N O 33 >b   -\m ebR  .tBL k ao BBS kw 
Rk9BLw? 
be lBh shBSL2wbBe 
uwkll keS k 
2kRoeSkh oSbwBhI
wR n7me 
yLNGwALyq
Are you looking for some 
LIVE ACTION this winter'
ynwAwR bVz 
Pnw yzbLPA8 VPAz
 bvou 9BL uBco oxoh2buo
 bu 2roks
 bu k hokw hBLs k2wbvbw9
 rku k sLcsbe uBLeS u9uwoc!
tBL 2ke kRuB hoew wro b2o lBh skhwbou 
keS rB2no9I iroho bu k skhw9 hBBc kvkbRkaRo lBh 
lhkwohebw9 keS uBhBhbw9 lLe2wbBeu  Jrkwovoh! 
bw'u 2roks keS Jbwrbe JkRnbe Sbuwke2o Bl 1nbaBI
(gBh cBho belBhckwbBeN 2kRR 422-Cp47)
nw8w PYGY AP8L
gE-W y:m0 wB T H:m0 OVOEt iUO1:!t zTDi
keS kRuB R:m0-m:m0sc OVOEt .O:zO1:!t !giOEz--z
iro uso2bkR hkwo bu $ HIp0 lBh kScbuubBe 
keS $ HIp0 lBh unkwo hoewkRI
i-i!> -Ui>!t: $mI00
f!>> 422-Cp47 g-E ! f-Wd>OiO 
>T1iTzD -g ETz/ -UE1I

---------------------------------------------------

DILBERT  by Scott Adams
.O .-z iO FTiEOFUT>: -UE z!iT-z'1 
WE iE!ggTf f-ziE-> 
1t1iOW1I
iOt :-z'i 
U1U!>>t < 
DOi i!i , 
OXfTiO:N l
i!z/1 iWt >O!:OE
1TdN iO zO. !TE 
iE!ggTf f-ziE-> 1t1iOW 
T1 :O1TDzO: -z iRh!O 
!z: Uz:OE FU:DOiI
T !: ifUi ! gO. 
f-EzOE1I iT1 FTD 
E!:!E->--/TzD iTzD 
Hp ! .!>> f>-f/I !z: 
W-1i -g iO FUii-z1 
!EO D>UO: -zI
FUt ! 
i-U1!z: 
1!EO1 -g 
"F>UO-Uz: 
FU1 >TzOpI'
Ti >--/1 
>T/O Ti 
WTDi :O 
UWIII 
:!zDOE-U1I
DEO!iIII T 
gTzT1 O!E>t 
!z: .!i 
:- T DOi: 
"gO!iUEO 
fEOOdI"
b iiew\ PHONED
T TEOiO ":-DFOEi 
f-z1U>iTzD f-Wd!zt" 
i>O!: iO dE-iOfi 
FOf!U1O z-zO -g t-U 
T1 FETDi Oz-UDI
OVOEt dE-:Ufi i!i 1Td1 
FOg-EO iO Oz: -g iO 
W-zi DOi1 f-UziO: !1 
EOVOzUO g-E iO gT1f!> 
tO!EI Uzg-EiUz!iO>tN 
.O :-zi !VO j* ~ 
TzVOzi-EtI I
!z: t-U !>> !VO 
F!: !iiTiU:O1 g-E 
z!dd!EOzi EO!1-z: 
i!i'1 z.!t iFO 
! >O!:OEI
50 .O'>> 1Td .!iOVOE 
Hp >tTzD !E-Uz:N F--/ 
Ti !1 EOVOzUO !z: 1-Ei 
Ti -Ui >!iOEN l----------------
T zOO: OVOEtF-:t 
iO>d Tz iO 
1TddTzD :Od!Ei
WOzi i-:!tI
1!>> .O D!E-Uz: 
iO i!F>O !z: 
TziE-:UfO -Ugb 1O>VO1? 
T :-zi j 
DOi fU.t H 
.Ti iO \
>-f!>1I JX.
iT1 -zO1 
DOiiTzD 
Tn DUWI
!z: t-U 1!T: O 
.!1z'i FETDi 
Oz-UD igTDUEO 
-Ui -. if jrvvj'u Tp
'Bu urghock evBhiuw
1- t-U U1O: 
f-:O gE-W iO 
d!tE->> 
1t1iOW?
1U::Oz>t iO DTgiO: \ 
dE-DE!WWOE OWd>-t1 ) 
! E!EO>t 1OOz 
1iE!iODt -g "f-:O J 
EOU1OI" v
'v9 dsp aL9eH 
k y9pv eClHb
OtN .!>>t!
iO F-11 1Ozi 
T1 gTE1i O-W!T> 
WO11!DO! r~
T g-ED-i Wt 
.!ifI :-O1 
!ztF-:t 
/z-. .!i 
iTWO Ti T1?"
.!>>t .ETiO1 iO v 
fETiTf!> f-:O g-E 
-UE z!iT-z'1 zO. 
!TE iE!ggTf f-ziE-> 
1t1iOWI ^
i.O if!zDO 
'-F1IOEO'1 ! iTd: 
:-zi g>t 
-z d!t :!tI
iO fE-U: 
b1 1T>OziI
Burghockevicw dvhs 
csp vpa L9c e9dsw ocsw vs 
HyC vpi okLs Lvaleobl 
RL1 2vS tsp9nspcxxx
9p ops scasIkw Loes/sw hxx 
vpa hcx dvhs Csp vs 
vpikL9pT C2k kia9IvSx
2pS9ys kLs /vckhvFoBkiod 
kLs9 dsSSoe dvh9Si dvhscxx
III Csp vpa ocs /oks 
9p pse LvhacL9sx
-vBghN Csp vpa L9c 
Cmas vs kvSy9pT 
kvbsc ekkL cks/s doCscx
9 Ivp 9hvT9psx 
S9ckspw 9 Tok 
C2ILvpvpIooS9pT L9c 
LssSc o2k . 
1 kLssxxx F
iscw C2k 9 aopk 
EOFvpk ko F2ck io2
I2k kLs kvbsc od aopkf 
v cks/s doCsc v
ov C9SS Tvksc > v
ovaopvSa TTRUMP...^^
po! TevpkmJ 
I2k kvbsc do 
vSS 9IL asoaSsl 
W eL9ksw CSvIyw
I TALL, SHORT-YOU 
I NAME IT1 eggti
Burgu
/si
sbIFksa
vCo2k
kL9cxxx
9k>c v LsS9:
Ioaksmx l=
T poe io2 hu doTsk Loec 
hsaDv CoickLs cspvko 
e9as io2 Rkvys L9c Fosf 
^ huuoc kev .9jh z
V y&,\ Jhv>vh! T V vvy| 9*
h2ck Cs 
o2 p9ps T 
oISoIyx}
co2pac S9ys io2>t ^ 
hvys o2k askki Tooax 
e9kL v dSvk kvbw p=rg 
- hx doCsc !
9 kL9py 9 Lsvx 
* cohskL9pTxxx faSoe9p>
kLs
a9/sxxxt2 Csspw
2LlL2Lx
BHL9S Tvhh Lvc aoaast 
Ci ko avi L9c scasIkc 
ko dvhs Csp vpa ocsl
poe 9>SS Lv/sko C2ha hi 
ksp oISoIyl kLvk doCsc 
dsSSvLlko ksplkL9kix vpa 
C2ILvpvp ko poopl
vc 9>/s Cssp ki9pT ko 
ksSS hi IL9ck9vp d9sptcw 
hiIvpa9avIi 9c vCo2k s:
Tspsvk9pT kLs /vS2sc 
vpa /9k2sc od o2x ^ 
2^N asoaSs! 9kc vk 
/x kLs Ios od 
F hi Cs9pT 9
iwBd'
yFpaod 
C2c9pscc 
a9a io2x 
aopo d9Se
1 Ta
Eevk 9d Fs eo2Sapkeoyw 
cILsa2Ssa ocsx es Tok 
C2ILvpvp aL9S Tvhh 
do vdks c2FkksakLspxxx 
2FpILw
Cspf ^
YOUPEOAfPIPWul 
spaL9H H9yCl bRhr 
1s2ypaS taL > uu& 
okkspw C2kl ^ nxIn/oc 
io2 ypoe kopf) zpc> "1 Trf
9 vh
ch92p1x
io2 
doSyc 
Tok vpi 
Q2sck9opcf
1JJJmJ 
ccsio2 
doSycw 
v1vpx v
io2 Nssw doSycw es>s 
9pv I2Sk2vS ev>x
^C/seLccc ILvkc 2a 
kLs dvhC CspcxxxdvcR 1 bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb
UAP\t<jeiJ.,UVEBeNyou I umriNe yo mm
spaL 9 HyClo oly bRHo
kdc1 'Burghd2eStnx MME ^irjsur.Zii !H... ;< It*"#
eLsp 9kIohsckol TappF2TpS 
1a-N y m.yCR m.a E IaHTmmt 
sa2spa 2O Caf j .jnrcn qjpcx 
LvhacL9svs 
Sooy9pT do v yBtrr rg
NJ io2>s aoaoc9pT v aSvp 
kLvk e9SS 9pIsvcs hi kvbsc 
Ci L2pasaN od toSSvc 
eL9Ss st2I9pT )o2c Ci 
h9SS9opcf 9c kLvk 9TLkf
eLif 
CsIv2cs 
9>h CSvIyf 
9c kLvk 
9kf 9c 
D9kf
vc 92pasckvpt 9kw 
io2 evpk v vks od 
m7%x C2k es I2:
spkSi avi 
CIR/ /5* '
kLss>SS i kL9c 9c kLs 
Cs cohs T ops eLo>c 
cvIFl T IvkIL9pT opf
dmIscw rhh x -> isc BuDemh k.DpT]^ r // I tog&to  
\V> T v ' odu Iwoow> 
-W''v tBjjodukxocex
!wc irs
CsIv2cs
io2>s
p2kcx
askkio2k 
kLssx to io2 
Lv/s v dvh9Sif 
cohsops es 
Io2St IvSS7
oLxx mvhf
svSSif
Loep2kcfkLs aoCSsh 
9c csbw io2 
Nss{ koo 
h2IL od z F
IbRBLLourLh>I/bSu! dRL bewB fkcskbe '% kw iro :BBeJrLB H-nvwhBeb2 iBJe kRR rrws:
; i|, ms rtme-ttti
i 0V >si
WHBN PLOMBE* 
(SC SACK TO 
WOEKCOM/MOM etPZEe&ioN 
ood-1O MILK 
Wi PATP
<pfWO
FLUSHES) y}

---------------------------------------------------

DhkSLkRR9N ocsRB9oou kw WbRekhS TeSLuwhbou 
aoke wB kaLuo wro 2Bcske9'u 
ghbSk9 2kuLkR-Shouu sBRb29I
!u uBBe ku wro goheqLbuwu usBwwoS wro rBLuo'u aLbRwbe sbkeBN fkhR neoJ wro ukRo Jku be wro akI

---------------------------------------------------

.!i'1 -W TV 
-i-v1vvCi?
iO O>OfiETf 
f!TE!
TIRED
Cybersx lasdtC lo isv Cc Soic rmynlu>fi!>
C2SpadCtnSUl2zDbzvDvWdlkhwl2dwl22l2' 
bclwilww; 9
zbJo lb>>- 
zTDiOl
g-E l^O ...
f!dTi! > dLzT1.chh 
\5 yO(JR 8E.ST 
ziOEi!TWWOWi 
VALUE//
g\EHzD 
1 QUb\sv
iO C!1 
2rkcaohIv
f HyyC 1rkJe fI /ebkrw  1oeS ockbR wB urk\ve+@keShoJI2cLIoSL
Ti .!1 >!iO !i NIGHT ON THE OPEN ROAD, 
1dOf:TzD >T/O ! W!z -z THE RUN.
A Insidnei Dvird voivSonrD ptF auT 
hAgorifqMM
-CHRIS DE FUEDN ":-z'i d!iiO gOEEtW!z
EPISODE If 
MMZ 9 :!zTO> V!UDOE
by zb2n fku2bkwB
n T TWT  N T bI-RR ' 
^/WDIDTWSTOYOiPn
*|iT 'bWTTIH'H '
[A MINISTER... NOT HUMANr\ 
iVJL/SO EVIL... TOOK THE 
CLOCK, SPOKE Or SIN... 
iGASPi U:by:Cy nusrsTor 
HIM/ HE PLANS THE END OF 
THE WORLD! HE IS iGNGiA 
MINISTER/HE CAN CONTROL 
THE CLOCK! t-U WU1i FIND 
| ! WOWFOE OF THE CHURCH 
UvTi. FAITH TO STOP HIMv>
- (TV >-E:v STOCHUtU.
i've &ot mv ipeai after 
THE &A* WE can PUCK 1HT0 
wro F!iE--W kcs WA Ti 
UwbiT>I OO/t1-dt >O!VOE 
iOn Jo fvTz EU!v -Ui -*i0 
iro KIEL? !zw> K'CK gTObd!Wd bhLJR_____-
x It'1/u ToFFon/oiNw qN
ww2C2TSC22 CCFedb
^ - ^zBNEO!>>tI X .!zi -wB 
HH sB TiI Tvo *'6vOE w6^ 
-V -Ui -z iO gHO>d F6Ig-EFI
f! -v 0^0v0 \ Ot'tK
.p1 :tbV^bb 
icovGHi Y 
Rjro 2RB2nv'
.<7 <: i)9(> Nicholas Casciato, Jr.
I.OEO dTd O D-?I
rtnFoumE doiiJSf7/flf DOCTOR. I'LL SET 
fj\ THINGS RIGHT 
I;'A.SOMEHOW... AT CHURCH... HE DIDN'T SAY WHERE... STOP HIM. 
^ PLEASE... 
YE5. AL WAYS 
FAITHFUL. .FAITH.
U-U(T>-fB UvUi7 g.gNVBJ 2!^'h o ekFS-Bce ^ 
! Uz!bT THoutiT
!L_- Bl CL^u v
-W-i -g mWI1IT |0O=p1 !
l?UT )Jothi/06 
Vau'tf.E' -sTh 
. 6FTDUO-1 !
FORK
epi f-|ioM VE(LyDAJe h^s -n
-TMte * 'VouuMTAiJ-Y1' ^AY C^-T
gECAvc^E J<SU55T TH'E IBM tt~Au. . ,S
RSNo 'y m.mS EOvpNo 
op W/PP^l| 1 ^ A P1^ CA^/P^T'--------
/VrO | ^piv/ljX/At-L6>T'.) ( TW't 
tkI R^R-/ fCUh^ uS2I!-Lb>wb2_
ZJSi^\ UA/2>0<^ iPUIU-sd^KIEScAMceru-Ei> TKE 
HE'iWTH t^Su.M^C.ioJL GRO e N
-n>
, t0L-^- 
I fvblwb2Lo
CIfsN(!p' 
U' RHnf 
> 2sg= wro 
'] >kilT3ffi>.
^ l/EEP 
oC
^ HSDK! .arJpAV.
0)y%l2N*'zv.
<bP>iM/N6CLflV ttlE GRfW by Shawn C. Knight

---------------------------------------------------

Global Graduate.
Ebrw BLw Bl 2BRRooN Beo sohuBe 2ke 2rkeoN k 
2Bcske9I !eS Beo 2Bcske9 2ke bcsk2w ke beSLuwh9I
zkwbBekR 1ocb2BeSL2wBh Bllohu ke oevbhBecoew 
aouw 2rkhk2wohbzoS a9 wro BeBbe sLhuLbw Bl sBubwbvo 
2rkeoI tBL'RR rkvo wro BssBhwLebw9 wB uL22ooS Be 
9BLh BJe wohcuN JrbRo Shbvbe wro 2BewbeLoS ovBRLwbBe 
Bl k RBakR RokSoh be io2reBRBbou lBh WBvbe keS 
* 1rksbe TelBhckwbBeI
'Luw hococaohN Jrowroh 9BLho ke oebeooh Bh 
lbeke2bkR kekR9uwN ovoh9Beo kw zkwbBekR bu k 
2rkeocknohI .o wrben 9BLRR khoo bwu 
wro LRwbckwo jBa wbwRoI
Calal is en dr. Pis
IMOK.MM'ION SI.SS I ON:
numi rnL i/i
ON < AM IM 'S IN I I KMI AYS: 
MUiRl ARY I i 
si I VOI R ( ARI.I It 1*1 VNMMi 
X 1*1 A( IMI N I <>1 I K I 
I OR DI-TAILS.
Tl LekaRo wB uoo Lu Be 2kcsLuN 
uoeS 9BLh houLco wB zkwbBekR 
1ocb2BeSL2wBh fBhsBhkwbBeN mmm 
.ouwohe !voeLoN Wv1 H0-04N 1I dBhwRkeSN 
WO 04H0CI g!X: (207)77p-x04pI -h srBeo H-x00-x7C-DE!:I
zkwbBekR bvou sholohoe2o wB 2Lhhoew qLkRblboS ocsRB9oou lBh kRR 
BssBhwLebwbou keS bu ke oqLkR BssBhwLebw9vkllbhckwbvo k2wbBe ocsRB9ohI 
Wvgv:vVI zkwbBekR 1ocb2BeSL2wBhI 0I io2reBRBbou lBh WBvbe keS 
1rksbe TelBhckwbBe keS WBvbe keS 1rksbe wro lLwLho kho whkSockhnu Bl 
zkwbBekR 1ocb2BeSL2wBh fBhsBhkwbBeI !RR Bwroh whkSockhnu kho hobuwohoS wB 
wrobh houso2wbvo 2BcskebouI
Moving and shaping the future'."
btgsr1o9r5 b6gemgimo e9 rMo 
gSmg9, g9, yMg,u5e,o bsog5
Efficiency, H, 2, and m Bedroom 
Furnished Apartments 
Laundry Facilities 
Wall to Wall Carpeting 
Security Building
H&P Real Estate 
682-1519
7am - ppm  Monday thru Saturday
Duke University
Graduate Research Assistantships Available.
;The Department of Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science at Duke University 
has an active and expanding research program in aerodynamics, aeroacoustics, aeroelasticity. and active control. Research assistantships are available immediately (summer or 
fall 1996) for well-qualified applicants interested in one or more of the following topics:
 Acoustics
 Computational Fluid Dynamics
 Unsteady Aerodynamics
 Vortex Dynamics
 Active Control
 Aeroelasticity
 Smart Structures 
' Nonlinear Dynamics
>ith applications of these technologies to aircraft, rotorcraft, turbomachinery, and under;water vehicles.
For an application or more information, contact: 
Charles M. Harman 
Director, Graduate Studies Program 
Department of Mechanical Engineering 
and Materials Science 
Duke University
Durham, North Carolina 27708-0301
info@egr.duke.edu
http://www.egr.duke.edu/mems
TTENGINEERING
Carnegie Institute Of Technology 
Proudly Acknowledges The Academic 
Achievement Of The Following 
Engineering Undergraduates 
Who Have Been Named To 
The Dean's List For The
FALL SEMESTER 1995:
SENIORS
Devin V. AminECEStuart B. EllisMEGJohn M. MortonECE
Ramu ArunchalamECEBrett J. FontaineMEGGregory D. MumpowerMEG
Rahul BafnaMEGDaniel E. GiammarCIVAaron B. NealCIV
Tarek A. BaranskiMEGMary S. GleasonCHEShih Chun NgiamMEG
Nathaniel J. BarlowECELori J. GregorMEGMark A. NicholsonCIV
Talivaldis S. BauerCIVBrian D. GuzziMEGWilliam F. NorthropMEG
Ido Ben-ShacharECEJason J. HaasMEGTodd R. OkimotoMEG
John M. BlackMEGChristopher B. HeiserMEGAnanta Osangthammanont CH
Colin J. BrodskyCHEPaisit HerabatCIVMichael W. ReaMEG
Jeffrey J. BurkeECENathan T. HouserCIVMatthew P. RubaiMEG
David A. BylerCIVKevin W. JohnsCIVAndrew T. ShefmanMEG
Li ChenECEAnshika Karamchandarti ECEDylan Sawyer-VillersMSE
Sianjin R. ChuaECERichard E. KingMEGAngela L. SnyderECE
June Z. ChungMEGOzge H. KoymenECETakefumi SomeyaMEG
Jason N. CohenCIVSum Yim S. KingECEStephanie S. StineCHE
Joseph C. CostanzoMEGWee Tee LimECEDavid T. StottECE
Chanakya DamarlaECEEdmund F. LoprestiECEScott A. ThompsonCHE
Anthony M. DeSimone CIVCole MarinoMEGWei C. TngECE
Matthew J. DevosECELawrence J. MathersCHEPeter V. WilcoxCHE
John DoanCIVCurry M. MichelMEGMary J. WilsonCHE
Kyle B. DriscollMEG/EPPSteven P. MillerCHEJeremy M. ZelsnackECE
David R. DropCHERose E. MillsECE
JUNIORS
Catherine M. Bishop MSEChad A. JasiunasCHEStephanie L. PostalECE
Rebecca B. BuchheitCEENeil A. JohnsonECEBohuslav RychlikECE
Taek J. ChoiMEGChatchai Khunpitiluck ECETrevor W. SchadtECE
Benson L. ChowECEIdeo M. KrisnantoMEGChristine ShambachCHE/EP
Drew A. DavidsonMEGIn D. LeeMEGMark A. ShiehECE
John G. DorseyECERobert E. LongMEGLeah F. SimkinsCHE
Brendan H. DunhamECEStefan LotterCHERonak SinghalECE
Bassem S. El-DasherMEGPierre-Louis MatheyMEGPaul J. TracyECE
John W. FaistlECEEmmett G. MatthewsECEMarc J. UnangstECE
Andrew J. FloresMEGSteven J. MeyersCHE/EPP Uwe RemmeCHE
Stephen R. FoxCHEMarkus MolbertECEStefan M. WalterCHE
Anat Gal-OrMEGMatthew J. MyersECEBenjamin L. WangCHE.
Samuel J. GersteinECEJon P. NedelECEErena YamaguichiECE
Chris R. GuentherECEYong-Suk ParkECEJon T. YardECE
Ellen T. HasenkampCHE/EPPAnthony C. PaulCEE/EPPRudolph W. YeungECE
Jason P. HeymECEPazhani PillaiECESebastian H. ZieslerECE
Brian D. HutsellECERonald G. PolcawichMSEHeather A. ZindleCHE
Jason D. JancaitisCEE
SOPHOMORES
Bader K. Al-EssaMEGWade G. HenningMEGJonathan B. PompaMEG
George A. BlahaMEGBrian J. IngramMSEPradya PrempraneerachMEG
Gregory P. ByelnokECEElizabeth M. JacobsCEE/EPPDaniel R. SafferCHE
Bryan G. CampoCHE/EPPAltug KoymenCHESteven SchkolneECE
Lisa A. CookCHEBryon P. KrugECE/EPPTimothy A. SeigerECE
Michael J. CurrieECEAlexander LozuponeECEDoug ShontzCHE
Kris N. DahlCHEDilip R. MujumdarMEG/EPP Daniel G. SlocumCHE
Fed C. DoerrECEPhilip T. O'HaraECEScott J. StyfcoCEE
Michael J. DuttCHEGlen C. OngECEJeffrey D. WilleyECE/EPP
Nathan A. GillMEGKaren E. PinkstonCEE/EPPMing-Yuan YehECE,
FRESHMEN
Henele I. AdamsJeffrey D. HemphillJamie O. Milliken
Andrew R. ArtzBenjamin E. HentyKeri A. Mills
Jorge AvitiaDavid C. HirschfieldJennifer N. Moore
Chonlawit BanphawatthanarakDiego L. IglesiasJeffrey R. Mrenak
Peter W. BoettcherMohd Z. IsmailKyle Oppenheim
Daniel J. BowersoxRussell E. JosephDavid E. Ormsby
Dashiell Boyer-OlsonAdam Z. KlatzkinEsther K. Park
Jeffrey A. BrownEric R. KochYun Kay A. Pau
Jeffrey B. CadleBengliang KohNoshir S. Pesika
Scott J. CapeWesley M. KopackaTheodore Q. Pham
Alexander L. ChinKristopher L. KriechbaumMatthew B. Phelps
Stephen J. ChinTham KriengchaiyaprukNatalya Polyakova
Steven ChmielnickiVolkan KukrerBenjamin R. Pugliese
Kun-Wei ChouChen-Li LinDarius R. Rad
Vaughn T. CoolmanTze Bin LohWilliam A. Ross
John W. CressmanTan LuMahesh Saptharishi
John M. CrisostomoAdam D. MadiganAngela M. Saval
Jonathan M. DaleyGeorgios MarkakisCharles M. Schroeder
Elliott P. DelayeLawrence K. McCartinJustin A. Serulneck
Kevin R. DixonTobin L. McDanielAaron N. Siegel
Neil A. DonnellyBrandon J. McLeanHarmit Singh
Andrew J. ElliottJohn J. MeierScott A. Stouffer
Li-Ping FanAdrienne M. MessengerChi M. Tong
David S. FriedmanChris T. MesserYoshiki Torii
Benjamin D. GambleJason H. MessingerIvan A. Tumanov
Marian D. GoebesTrevor C. MeyerowitzTimothy J. Wameck
Vitaly GoltsbergJeremy J. MichalekRebecca J. Wehrer
Michael R. GreavesRobert J. MiglioreJarrod B. Wilson
Charles D. HardenAndrew C. MihalSalman Yussof
Jeffrey M. Harper

---------------------------------------------------

VBRLco y0N TuuLo Hpiro ikhwkeN fkheobo WoRRBe Uebvohubw9N dbwwuaLhrN doeeu9Rvkebkp goahLkh9 HyyC
Pittsburghs Indie club scene surfaces
bsog ig9,5 ve9gmmu soloe6o 1alMT,o5os6o, grro9reI9
By BRADLEY ZIMMERMAN, 
NEIL DONNELLY
Tartan Staff writers 
& WILL ISENHOUR
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
Contrary to popular belief, not 
all CMU students exclusively use 
their weekends to catch up on 
sleep, and one of the things these 
adventurous souls have discov
ered is the burgeoning local indie 
music scene.
The words local music, when 
\ittered to the average Pitts
burgher, are likely to evoke one 
of 4 images: Allman Brothers trib
ute bands; Rusted Root and their 
folksy, frat-rock brethren; over'the-hill bar bands whose collec
tions of styling gel and leather 
are only equaled in number by 
the bounty of Def Leppard covers 
in their repertoires; and, perhaps 
taost disturbingly, nothing at all.
Well, chew on this: Internaitionally, the Steel City is revered 
the punk rock capital of the 
| world, thanks to the Iron City 
Punk contingent. Various indie 
labels, such as Pop Bus, Get Hip, 
and Nodoi are centered here, as 
are a plethora of nationally tour
ing acts. On any 
given weekend, ev
ery club in the city 
is spotlighting this 
valuable resource.
And does this re
source come in 
many forms! Sup
ported by the 
wealth of colleges in 
the area, the Pitts
burgh countercul
ture has spawned 
groups in almost 
every genre imag
inable. From indus
trial to ska, from jazz and experi
mental to goth, from punk and 
noise rock to garage, the 
deconstruction of left-of-center 
music knows no boundaries. Most 
local bands are found supporting 
national/international acts or 
doing team shows at bars, clubs 
: and halls throughout the city lim
its. Youve probably seen a good
number of them on your trips to 
Graffiti and Metropol without 
even knowing it.
Indie/Experimental Rock
Although it is a mystery to a 
sizable portion of the Pittsburgh 
populace, the local independent 
rock scene is thriving. While a 
vibrant scene is blossoming right 
beneath their collective noses, a 
large number of locals remain 
unaware. In some cases, local 
indie rock bands are receiving
Superchunks Mac Macaughan 
and Laura Balance. Merge rereleased the bands 1993 10 EP 
Some Girls Like Cigarettes last 
year on compact disc. More re
cently, Merge released a 7 by the 
Trio featuring the song What 
Everyone Else Calls Fun, and a 
new LP is due out this spring.
Yet in spite of these sizable 
achievements, the Karl 
Hendricks Trio have been virtu
ally ignored by the majority of 
Pittsburghs inhabitants and the 
local media (with the notable exnuo iivii&n [iiajfa me i iiiouuigu serteo
considerably more attention on a 
national level than on a local one.
One band that understands this 
quandary js the Karl Hendricks
 Bedazzled Records 
iro UeSohlRBJohu rkvo k hokw Bwrb2 uBLeSI
Trio. The band has been together 
for seven years and has released 
multiple 7 singles and three fulllength albums, the latest being A
ception of a Pittsburgh Post-Gazette story about a month ago.) 
Were fairly well known outside 
of Pittsburgh, says Karl 
Hendricks, chief 
songwriter and front 
man of the Trio, but 
many people in Pitts
burgh are interested 
in more mainstream 
bands.
The Karl Hend
ricks Trio could never 
be categorized as 
mainstream, but 
their tightly-woven 
relationships arent 
exactly hard to relate 
to, either. The music 
is a blend of melody 
and power that has become 
known as the bands unmistak
able signature sound. While this 
sound has not yet reached the
Still, hes quick to note that 
Pittsburgh has a very small po
tential audience for independent 
music, and its not peoples duty 
to like us just because were from 
the same town. And when it 
comes to making this aforemen
tioned potential audience more 
aware of whats occurring right 
before them, Hendricks says, Ive 
never really believed in methods 
of makingmusic recognized, other 
than making it. People should 
take the bull by the horns and do 
it themselves.
One individual who doesnt 
necessarily agree with Hendricks 
do-it-yourself approach of rais
ing musical awareness is Manny 
Theiner, self-described mover 
and shaker of the Pittsburgh 
indie-rock scene, an alumnus of 
Carnegie Mellon, music writer 
for In. Pittsburgh news weekly, 
and a person who gets many, 
many, many things done. These 
things include everything from 
organizing and promoting most 
local independent shows to re
leasing records on his own Pop 
Bus label. Local media should 
pay more attention to creative
the important role of local radio, 
especially college radio. Pitts
burgh is lucky enough to have 
two college radio stations: WRCT 
(88.3 FM) of CMU and WPTS
at large and the Pittsburgh popu-1, 
lation at large. In fact, local! 
bands Hurl and Storm & Stress: 
will be opening for The For Caife 
nation this Tuesday night at the
LhR wknou wro JBhRS Bl beSbo hB2n a9 uwBhcI
Courtesy of
(92.1 FM) of Pitt. Either more 
people need to listen to college 
radio, Theiner states, or WYEP 
needs to help out. I have a big pet 
peeve with WYEP being as lame 
as it is. If they played more Karl 
Hendricks Trio, [the Trios] audi
ence would triple overnight. 
Other reasons that Theiner 
cites for the general lack of local 
interest in independent music are 
the average age of the Pittsburgh
/mu LebqLo uw9Ro bvo wroc k Sbuwbe2w uBLeSI
Gesture of Kindness, which was majority of locals, there is a more
released last year on the Califor
nia label Fiasco. The Trio was 
also recently signed to Merge 
Records, the Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, label run by
conducive atmosphere to the kind 
of music that the Trio creates. 
Theres more interest in inde
pendent rock than there was five 
years ago, says Hendricks.
musicians, says Theiner, than 
to various slick alternative bands 
who kiss industry ass. Also, 
Theiner notes that many local 
bands such as Davenport and 
Speaking Canaries never get 
invited to open for large national 
acts.Paramount to these con
cerns, according to Theiner, is
population and a lack of funds 
(Everyones interested in pres
ervation, so not a lot of money is 
being given to forward-thinking 
things.) While Theiner says that, 
locally, almost everything cre
ative comes out of CMU and its 
environs, this activity goes un
noticed by the CMU population
Oakland Beehive, and the 
is free with a valid CMU ID.
Hurl will release their firstfiiK 
length album, A Place Calledjj 
Today, which will be released by: 
two labels, My Pal God and Third' 
Gear. The album was scheduled-:.', 
to be released a week ago at~iC 
show with locals Shale and Swob(who both have new 7 singles onthe market), but because of comS 
plications, the records never ar^ 
rived. Other quality indie acts/- 
making the rounds include 
hide Flip, Blunderbuss, Prop'effi 
ler, the Steel Miners, the Sonic' , 
Tonics, and Get Hip Records $ 
Cynics and Mount McKinleysplus jazz mavens Watershed and i 
Forty Stories.
Punk/Ska
With the possible exceptions.of!; 
the. Steelers, beer, and wings*;-" 
there is nothing more Pittsburgh ' 
than punk. Hardcore, pop-punkt  
policore  all are represented: 
under some logo of the Arn City .' 
Pahnkers. And with the success^ 
of such national acts as the* 
Mighty Mighty Bosstones and thfe! 
Toasters, that realm of ska has; 
found a home among the collegeparty crowd because of its reggag;: 
feel, put to use by Rancid ah3 
NOFX.
dRokuo uoo F!z:1N sko >HQI
yg9 dsg9le5lI 8IrMelTVIlSos5 1o51oseDo mIlgm lmai
By BRADLEY ZIMMERMAN
Tartan Staffwriter 
& Will Isenhour
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
It is rare that a small club audi
ence witnesses perfection. Last 
Monday night, within the 
grafittied confines of Cloud 9, 
Sunshine Blind treated the city 
of Pittsburgh to the most ethe
real realm of that elusive word.
For the two of us, the evening 
began with a cab-ride with an 
'Utterly loathsome cabbie who 
went on at length about his fasci
nation with lesbianism, and sub
sequently let us off at the wrong 
place. After a grimy five block 
launt, we finally arrived at the 
hallowed destination.
Cloud 9 is a predominately 21- 
and-over club at the corner of 
21 st and Smallman in the Strip 
district. The dimly-lit bar casts 
electric blue haze over the 
Patrons, while various artworks 
share wall space with announce
ments of coming attractions. 
Upon getting inside, we found 
fhat Cloud 9 pretty much matched 
f} the common stereotypes asso
ciated with any club, people maklng idle conversation around a 
jvell-stocked bar, and of course, 
lots and lots of smoke. The festive 
M laid-back atmosphere is punc
tated by what is probably the 
amicable staff in the Burgh.
. ' this from a club which made 
ts name on, and still avidly sup'0rts, the local punk and indierck scenes.
But the immortal Gothic move
ment has finally gripped the city 
with a midnight leather glove, as 
was evident the moment 
Carmillas Dress took the stage. 
Although being the newest of the 
local goth bands, we were pleas
antly suprised considering the 
dubious reputations that open
ing acts seem to have earned for 
themselves. The vocals and lyr
ics of their songs were dark and 
brooding, perhaps overly so, and 
Bassist Randall Harriss E-string 
was most certainly put through 
its paces. They get a lot of credit 
purely by virtue of their utter 
devotion to go on. Vocalist Jor
dan Decay was performing in 
spite of a nasty cold (and actually 
chugging a bottle of Chloraseptic,) 
and Joel Drowned Boy Grimes 
was standing in for the bands 
regular guitarist, James Shroud. 
Still, all problems notwithstand
ing, Carmillas Dress put on a 
terrific show, and judging by the 
number of names that found their 
way onto the groups mailing list, 
most of the 21+ set liked em, too. 
Although a bit rough around the 
edges in terms of stage presence 
calculated stage clichs and an 
apparent uncomfortability with 
the electronic drums marred an 
otherwise inspiring songlist 
culled from their recent demo EP,
 Carmillas Dress is most cer
tainly a band to keep your eye on. 
The problems will surely correct 
themselves as theyounglads gain 
more experience.
Next came an unannounced 
ppearance by Circus Apocalypse. 
A bit of trivia - Circus Apoca
lypse is the association that the 
band Apocalypse Theatre has be
gun and is currently touring the 
country with. Apocalypse The
atre was one of (and certainly the 
best of) three bands who opened 
for Sunshine Blind the last time 
they came through town. Mon
day, the Circus graced 
the crowd with 
kind of sadis
tic, witty 
freaklypse, A more honest, artistic, 
and uncensored version of the 
Jim Rose Circus Sideshow.
But now the wait was over. 
After a brief set-up, Sunshine 
Blind took the stage. More smoke 
filled the room, and the subtle 
strumming of a guitar and soft 
vocals hushed the crowd 
until the band 
played the 
opening 
chords
o f
show 
type performance 
most commonly 
associated with Jim Rose.
We saw a checker-suited jester 
pound nails up his nose, followed 
by a screwdriver, and a good many 
other feats of human physiology 
and spoken word social commen
tary. It was gross, unwholesome, 
it made Will squirm, and we loved 
it. High marks for Circus Apoca
Bumed 
and ut
terly si
lenced us. Very 
few bands have the 
ability to step onto stage 
and grab you like that. After 
that, the only words circulating 
within the crowd were phrases 
such as Who did you say these 
guys were? Do they have an 
album out yet? and the alwayspopular DAAAAAAAMN!!
The band (Caroline Blind -
vocls and guitar; C. W. H. K. - lead 
guitar, and J. T. - bass,) formed in 
New York in 1991 and now based 
in San Francisco, turned down a 
number of labels before signing 
with Scream Records and releas
ing their debut, Love the Sky to 
Death, last year. In addition, 
theyve been featured on numer
ous independent gothic compila
tions and have been on the tour 
for the better part of a year, show
casing their signature, hardedged goth sound, characterized 
by pounding synthesized (almost 
industrial club) beats, roaring 
guitars, and Caroline Blinds in
credibly strong vocals (imagine a 
heavier, darker Concrete Blonde.) 
This road work has obviously had 
a positive effect on their live 
sound. The dynamism of Love the 
Sky... is taken to the nth power 
with the crystal clear wall of 
sound approach made possible 
through their extensive array of 
effects pedals and customized am
plifiers, giving barnburners such 
as Coming Down and the depressingly beautiful Francis/ 
Pepperland Laid Waste equally 
devastating impacts.
Besides being one of the most 
beautiful women in music, 
Caroline Blind possesses one of 
the fullest purely emotional voices 
on the scene today, capable of 
making a guitar assault like 
Regoddles a vocal centerpiece. 
Oh, and did we mention that both 
her father and brother are CMU 
alumni (classes of 45 and 86, 
respectively  we didnt ask her 
why she didnt enroll...)?
The major difference between, 
this show and their October date 
at Lucianos was the command of 
the lighting system. Cloud frs 
swirling greens, reds, andpurples 
along with rotating wall designs 
made the set a dramatic, visceral 
experience, making their setcloser and first single, the dy
namic Crescent and the Star, a 
frantic celebration of dark hero
ism.
Finally, the crowd goaded them 
into an encore, and with the words 
of closet-80s fan Caroline, this 1 
is a cover that you know, Sun
shine Blind ended the night with  
a dreamygoth reworking of I 1 
Ran by new-wavers Flock of 
Seagulls.
The one thing that has really 
stuck us about Sunshine Blind 
the two times we have seen them 1 
is the level of professionalism they 
exhibit on stage. No grandstand
ing, no introductions for the songs 
other than the names, and an 
absolutely no bullshit perfor
mance.
The music is in-your-face and 
has an edge like a razor, and they 
know they dont have to talk about 
bad breakups or take their clothes 
off to tell you that. The material 
speaks for itself, dammit. Easily 
the best club show weve seen in 
Pittsburgh.
Even our cabbie on the way 
home was cool....
Next Big Club Show: British 
pop-gothers Cindytalk and the 
Burghs own masters of melan
choly, the Underflowers. Febru
ary 19, Cloud 9.

---------------------------------------------------

LIOThe Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 1996
Mr. Holland's Opus scores big
By DAN ROSENBERG
Tartan Staffwriter
I have often bemoaned both 
television and film lacking origi
nality, so it came as a surprise to 
.me that I found Mr. Holland's 
Opus (Hollywood, PG) so endear
ing. The film is basically a combi
nation of Goodbye, Mr. Chips and 
Dead Poets Society, and shock
ingly, its better than both.
[ .rkw: Mr. Holland's 
Opus
:bho2wBh:1wosroe ohon 
T fBcske9:FLoek Vbuwk 
db2wLhou________
! Like Chips, Mr. Hollands Opus 
tHronicles the life of a dedicated 
educator from his horrible first 
day to the end of his teaching 
dareer (although, unlike Chips 
title character, Holland does not 
die). Also like Chips, the turning 
point in Hollands life occurs af
ter a tragedy involving his child. 
Chips actually lost his child (he 
died during birth), while Holland 
only emotionally loses his when 
he discovers that his son cannot 
hear.
What makes his sons deafness 
so unthinkable to Holland is that 
his sole passion is music (he is a 
composer and music teacher who 
names his child after John 
Coltrane). He believes that, be
cause of his sons handicap, the 
boy can never possess his fathers 
love for music. This, in turn, re
sults in an estrangement not only 
between father and son, but also 
between Holland and his loving 
tyife Iris (Dick Tracys Glenne
Headly in a wonderful support
ing role). As the amount of time 
Holland spends with his family 
decreases, he becomes more and 
more involved in the lives of his 
students.
Among the pupils whom Hol
land aids: an apparently untalented clainetist (played by 
Cybills Alicia Witt, and later by 
Love and Wars Joanna Gleason),
school. A lesser actor would not 
have been able to pull it off.
The film does have its share of 
flaws, however. Two and a half 
hours is a bit lengthy, and the 
stock footage highlighting major 
events of the past thirty years 
that are integrated throughout 
the film takes away from the prin
cipal storyline. Patrick Sheane 
Duncans script does occasionally
 Tewohu2Bso fBccLeb2kwbBeu 
!2kSoc9 !JkhS Jbeeoh Eb2rkhS :ho9lLuu uwkhu be Mr. Hollands Opus.
who eventually becomes gover
nor of the state; an academicallychallenged wrestler who dies in 
Vietnam; a pot-smoking bully; 
and a comely singer (Uncle Bucks 
Jean Louisa Kelly), for whom 
Holland nearly leaves his family.
At the heart of this slightly 
overlong film is Richard Dreyfuss 
star turn as Holland. His Oscar
worthy performance never hits a 
false note, whether his character 
is leading a marching band, sing
ing (and signing) John Lennons 
Beautiful Boy to his son, spend
ing hours one-on-one with the 
aforementioned students, or 
fighting budget cuts in the fine 
arts department of his high
wallow in sentimentality and pre
dictability (right up to the finale 
straight out of Dead Poets Soci
ety), but the performances and 
Stephen Hereks expert direction 
make up for the scripts occa
sional flaws.
Overall, however, Opus is a very 
uplifting film. It features engag
ing performances, an entertain
ing story, and it tugs at the 
heartstrings. Its not perfect, but 
it certainly is one of the years 
best films (although that is due in 
part to the lack of great moviemakingthisyear). It brings smiles 
and tears. Its nice to witness the 
mutual respect between an edu
cator and his pupils. Grade: A-.
White Squall makes critic squeal
By ALEX LEWIN
Tartan Staffwirter
White Squall is the latest ef
fort from Ridley Scott, the in
credibly gifted director of Alien, 
Bladerunner and Thelma & 
Louise (for which he received 
an Oscar nomination).
.rkw: White Squall 
:bho2wBh: EbSRo9 12Bww 
fBcske9: FLoek Vbuwk 
db2wLhou
Since Thelma & Louise, how1 ever, Scott has been on a downJ slide. His re-creation of Chris
topher Columbuss voyages, 
1492-.Conquest of 
Paradise, was un
believably bor
ing. His recent at
tempt to bring to 
the screen Rich
ard Prestons 
brilliant book 
about the Ebola 
virus, The Hot 
Zone, fell through 
because of ru
mored bickering 
between wouldbe stars Jodie 
i Foster and Rob
ert Redford that 
left Scott hanging 
in the wind.
I wish I could 
^say that White 
' Squall is a return 
1 to Scotts onceun' deniable talent as 
a storyteller, but 
' the film is so bad 
. for so many reasons  the least 
; of which are the 
fault of Scott him;self that I can
not.
Its the true 
; story of 14 teen
age boys and the year that they 
spend on a ship, in lieu of high 
school, sailing around the Pa' cific. Its a trip that is supposed 
to turn them into men, to make 
; them understand the values of 
 life on the sea.
The boysjourneys into man
hood are so flat and predictable 
I that the film becomes episodic, 
a series of events that are in
tended to be tied together by
the emotional journey into matu
rity, but wind up as nothing more 
than random, thrown-in se
quences that take us nowhere.
Predictably, the true test of 
what the boys have learned comes 
with a disaster, during which 
everyone must prove himself. It 
is, of course, a storm, and it con
jures up what is referred to as a 
white squall, which we never 
get a particularly good look at 
and can only assume is some sort 
of tidal wave.
The storm sequence is the high
light of the film, a terrifying de
piction of humans helplessness 
against the power of an angry 
sea.
But even here, Scott is not at
 WbuwhkR .BhRSJbSo fBI
'oll FhbSou ku frhbuwBsroh 1roRSBe ukbRu Be wro !RakwhBuuI
top-form. The sequence is far too 
long and Scott shows us charac
ters about to die, but cuts away at 
the last second to something else, 
as if even he cannot bear to watch 
the actual deaths.
Consequently, we are left con
fused, unsure who is alive and 
who is dead.
The film does nothing for its 
female characters, the only sig
nificant one played by Caroline
Goodall as the wife of the ships 
captain (Jeff Bridges).
With White Squall, Goodall 
adds yet another totally pas
sive, good-wife role to her list of 
credits. (Previous efforts include 
Liam Neesons wife in 
Schindlers List and Michael 
Douglass in Disclosure.).
The only other female char
acters in the film are a class of 
teenage Danish girls who speak 
no English but are ready to tear 
their clothes off at the behest of 
the boys, who have been asked 
to escort them for a day on the 
seas around Central America 
how convenient.
The film finally wraps itself 
up with a court martial to deter
mine whether or 
not the Jeff 
Bridges charac
ter is qualified 
to remain a 
ships captain, 
after leading the 
boys into the fa
tal storm. The 
sequence is in
terminable and 
wastes our time 
by recounting 
much of what 
weve already 
seen.
The result is 
predictable and 
overly senti
mental.
Scotts direc
tion is particu
larly frustrating 
here, as he 
bathes the
courtroom in 
smoke and
shadow and 
bombards us 
with numerous 
close-ups of Jeff 
Bridges at
tempting to 
stifle his pain, 
but finally giving in to self-pity.
As a director, Ridley Scott 
tends to show a kind of intan
gible distance from his subjects, 
as though he, like the audience, 
is an observer of events.
He should have shown more 
of this restraint in White 
Squall he should have tossed 
the script in the trash the 
minute it appeared on his desk.
New show lacks originality
By DAN ROSENBERG
Tartan Staffwriter
It appears as if January has 
unofficially become teacher-appreciation month in Hollywood. 
Mr. Hollands Opus recently 
opened in theaters and Matt 
Waters (CBS, Wednesdays, 9- 
10) premiered on January 3.
Of course, teachers who
care programs like _______
these have been on 
the airwaves since 
the beginning of television, including 
such series as Mr.
Peepers, Welcome 
Back, Kotter, and, 
most recently,
Hangin with Mr.
Cooper and Christy. ^ZZZZ
So, Matt Waters is 
not particularly original. In ad
dition to its frequently-utilized 
premise, it has also featured a 
pregnant woman trapped in an 
elevator  one of the oldest 
plot twists in television his
tory.
Even the casting of a talk 
show host (in this case Montel 
Williams, who also serves as 
co-executive producer) in the 
leading role has occurred be
fore. (Remember Oprah 
Winfreys short-lived Brewster 
Place?)
Waters also borrows from sev
eral films about educators. Its 
title character, a physics 
teacher at the fictional B ayview 
High School in New Jersey, is 
still recovering from the un
timely death of his brother (mir
roring Mr. Chippings grief after 
losing his wife and son in Goodbye, 
Mr. Chips).
Waters is also an ex-Navy SEAL 
who is teaching several disad
vantaged youths and making a 
difference (similarly Dangerous 
Minds LouAnne Johnson was a 
former Marine who also ended up 
teaching several disadvantaged 
youths  and making a differWaters is not great televi
sion, but it doesnt have to 
be. Its the best show in its 
time slot, and that alone 
will keep me watching. 
ence).
In addition, he is dating a fel
low educator Nicole (played by 
Kristen Wilson), just as head
master Sam Byrd romanced one 
of his teachers in The Byrds of for the infants mother.
to join a gang; he gives stu
dents five dollars for answeringa question correctly to illus
trate that education pays; he 
organizes a field trip to a hospi
tal when he discovers that his 
students have become desensi
tized to violence; and he re
quires a student to walk blind
folded through a cluttered room 
to illustrate the risks of not
------------- practicing safe sex.
Not surprisingly, 
these unconven
tional strategies 
make an impact on 
Waters students. 
He prevented An
gela (Cynthia Car
tagena), who has dif
ficulty reading, from 
dropping out of 
school; and con
vinced Flea (Richard Chevolleau) not to join a gang. He 
also helped a group of students 
care for an abandoned baby 
while also aiding in the search
Paradise.
And like the title character in 
Opus,Waters best friend is the 
football coach (The Tracey Ullman 
Shows Sam McMurray).
In addition to being predict
able and unoriginal, Waters is 
preachy.
As the title character, Williams 
spouts out more life lessons in a 
single episode than some clergy
men do in a lifetime, yet he does 
teach those lessons in an unusual 
manner.
He takes a student to a cem
etery to try to persuade him not
Despite its many flaws, Wa
ters does have its strengths. 
Williams plays the role of Wa
ters well, and he receives able 
support from Wilson, 
McMurray, and the ensemble 
of young actors who play stu
dents.
The teleplays are a little predictable, but they arent 
unwatchable. Waters is not 
great television, but it doesnt 
have to be.
Its the best show in its time 
slot, and that alone will keep 
me watching. B-.
Burgh bands steel the spotlight
F!z:1N lhBc sko >y
The classic old school bands 
of Pittsburgh punk  the politi
cal Anti-Flag, the social commen
tary of Aus-Rotten, and the 
hardcore thrash of Submachine 
are all national acts with exten
sive mailing lists in Europe. These 
bands cut their teeth at the leg
endary Decade in Oakland (now 
Ribbitz,) and are now often found 
at Cloud 9 in the Strip and 
Oaklands seminal Electric Ba
nana. Still doing farewell shows 
under their former bands moni
ker, Bad Genes, the members of 
The Loveless Champion,1 an an
gry pop-punk stew that has car
ried over their old audience. An
other staple of the pahnk con
tingent is Wormhole, who has 
joined the afore-mentioned bands 
on the Iron City Punk compila
tion CDs.
Although the promising poppunkers the Fosters have broken 
up, vocalist/guitarist Bob Foster 
has a new band in the works 
which is sure to pick up were his 
Screeching Weasel-influenced 
cult-favorite left off, melting down 
Chathams Rea Coffee House on 
a regular basis.
In addition, the Fosters are a 
major influence on the currently 
growing wealth of high school 
punk bands, among whom the 
Witchbabies and Social Angst are 
rising stars.
Winning the most improved 
band award are Bunjie Jambo, 
the burghs resident skapunkers. Since the amusing 
Chicken Pot Pie 7-inch helped 
them win the 1993 Illusions Nite 
Club Battle of the Bands, theyve 
added a capable horn section and 
tightened their once reckless tagteam vocal sound into a cohesive 
unit which has allowed them to 
open for various national Ska acts 
such as MU330 on their Pitts
burgh tour dates.
Gothic/Electronic Industrial
As with the punks, this genre is 
to make a huge splash in the 
scene founded by The Garden, 
Pittsburghs original (and still 
arguably best) Goth band.
So why is it that you werent 
aware of these bands in the first 
place? True, many of the larger 
clubs (i.e. Cloud 9, Lucianos, and 
Ribbitz) are generally 21+, but 
they do sponsor all ages shows. 
However, the Oakland Beehive, 
Club Stratus, Rea Coffee House, 
and anything sponsored by 
Carnegie Mellons AB Concerts 
are not only usually all ages, but 
usually for a quarter of the price 
youd be paying for a big time 
concert at Metropol, the Civic 
Arena, or Star Lake.
In many ways, Pittsburghs 
music scene is a microcosm of all
genres on the national level, am 
the bands are often better than 
most of the ground breaking5 
dreckyouve been absorbing from 
MTV or alternative music rags 
With as many independent zine: 
such as 3rd Nail and P.M.S 
(available at Eides, Randys ant 
Pauls music stores and AZIZ 
being published in town, and the 
free press of Jti Pittsburgh, there 
are more critical and reliable 
sources of new music than th< 
rags you pick up at the local book
store. Besides, dont you love the 
go-boost that occurs when you 
discover a new band and intro
duce them to your friends?
Theiner is surprised that there 
isnt greater interest in local 
music since it doesnt take a hell 
of a lot of effort to find out whats 
going on.
Turn on WRCT, go to a show at 
the Beehive, stop and look at 
flier on a telephone pole instead 
ofwalkingpastit, go shopping at 
Eides or Jerrys, even bother t 
go to the upstairs section ofVibes. 
Simple actions such as these 
might be all it takes to make 
Pittsburghers realize that the 
next big national thing may liter
ally be right around the comer.
Upcoming spotlight: (AB Con; 
certs) Karl Hendricks Trio, Blun
derbuss, and My Dad Is Dead 
play in the Morewood cafeteria. 
Admission free with CMU ID.
Managing the elements of change
ihbsRo dBbew io2reBRB9N Te2IN k 2Lwwbe-oSo uBlwJkho SovoRBsoh 
lBh wro 2BccBSbwbou whkSbe beSLuwh9N JbRR ao 2BeSL2wbe Be2kcsLu bewohvboJu lBh lLRR wbco sBubwbBeu Be .oSeouSk9N goaI 2xI 
TewohouwoS 2keSbSkwou JbRR sBuuouu k Sohoo be 2BcsLwoh u2boe2o 
keS ke bewohouw be wro lbeke2bkR beSLuwh9I irbu 2rkRRoebe 2khooh 
BssBhwLebw9 Bllohu k 2Bcsowbwbvo 2BcsoeukwbBe sk2nko kRBe 
Jbwr k LebqLo BssBhwLebw9 wB kbe vkRLkaRo oxsohboe2oI Tl 9BL kho 
LekaRo wB coow Jbwr LuN lBhJkhS 9BLh houLco wB: ihbsRo dBbew 
io2reBRB9N 7H EBJk9wBe !voIN EBJk9wBeN fi 0CxpmI
gkx: 20m-xmH-4H0CI O-ckbR: jBau@wswI2Bc
TRIPLE POINT

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 1996L1
Band plays happy, sappy songs
F9 Et!z :-z-V!z
Tartan Staffwriter
Someone said to me recently, 
Echobelly? Are you sure its 
not an album called Echo by 
Belly? Nope. Sorry, this is not 
Belly.
heart, her resonant, somewhat 
deeper voice acting as the coun
terpoint to Johanssons ringing 
guitar.
Occasionally, one can hear her 
English accent come through in 
her singing, and when it does, it 
tends to sour the vocal impact.
.rB: O2rBaoRR9 
.rkw: -z
>kaoR: pp0 WLub2 v Osb2 
Eo2BhSu
Echobelly has a sound that is 
their own. They play upbeat, 
energetic, and melodious alter
native rock. This band is not as 
perky and happy-go-lucky as 
; many Belly songs Ive heard, 
\ though their music has a very 
! happy tone to it.
Though occasionally pop-ish 
and sappy, overall this album 
rocks. ON opens with Car 
Fiction, the best song on the 
album.
It has some very cool guitar 
i riffs combined with the charged 
emotion that lies within every 
Echobelly song. Track 4, Natu
ral Animal, is another of the 
great songs on this album. It is 
one of the more emotionally 
charged songs, less happy and 
upbeat than the rest of the al
bum.
Echobellys strength lies in 
these energetic and charged 
songs. Glen Johanssons pow
erful, fluid guitar melodies fuel 
the heart of the album. He 
plays a fairly wide range of 
sounds, from driving, crunchy 
riffs to passionate ballads to 
the spacy, eerie noises on track 
12, Worms and Angels.
The vocalist, Sonya Aurora 
Madan, sings with feeling and
ijgr
Kto.
mi
onward. As an added touch, 
they have someone plays a lap 
steel guitar in the background, 
its eerie wail making the song 
all the more moving.
Echobelly has some just plain 
fun and happy songs as well. I 
often find myself skipping 
around the room 
when track 3, Great 
Things, comes on. 
The chorus is espe
cially giddy, the lyr
ics going I want to 
do right things/ dont 
want to compromise/ 
wanna know what 
love is/ is it some
thing I do to myself? 
Sure, its kinda 
cheesy, but its 
cheesy in a fun way.
The album ends 
with, Worms and 
Angels, one of the
^ nu ./ tsappier songs on the Er9wrc /be Eo2BhSu ^ Ialbum. Madan slyrMadans occasionally sappy and ics are really annoying after 
cheesy lyrics also lessen the feel 
and power of Echobellys songs, 
especially in track 9, Nobody 
Like You.
Their attempts at creating pas
sionate and moving songs gener
ally turn out less successful.
Track 7, Something Hot in a 
Cold Country, tries really hard 
to be touching and moving, but 
instead it could be inserted as a 
cheesy attempt at poignancy in 
any worthless Gen-X movie.
But they do have some good 
passionate songs. Track 11,
Dark Therapy, stirs the heart 
with Madans controlled, sus
tained voice floating the lyrics 
through the stereo. Johansson 
plays a yearning rhythm to ac
company her, driving the song
awhile, singing about true love 
being deathless and other crap.
Johansson uses a very coolsounding wave pedal in the 
song.
You dont get to really hear it 
except during the parts with
out vocals, but when you do, it 
makes the melody an eerie, farout, groovy, etc. sounding song. 
I would recommend this album 
to anyone not afraid of happy 
music.
ONs great guitar sound is 
what makes the album. If 
Madans happy singing gets to 
be too much for you, I recom
mend you wash your ears out 
with something angry, like 
Korn. Its the right thing to do, 
and a tasty way to do it.
Ba-a-a-a-ad Black Sheep
Sequel spoils limited-edition series
Comic Book Chronicles
by Jason Andracki
Too much of a good thing can 
be bad. When looking at failures 
such as the Highlander sequels 
and AfterM.A.S.H. there can be 
nothing more true. The release of 
The Crow:Dead Time by Kitchen 
Sink Comix is further proof for 
t^iis old adage.
- I initially shuddered months 
ago when I heard that another 
Grow series was planned. It would 
be like making a sequel to Gone 
With the Wind. OOPS, I forgot. 
They did that, and look how 
Wretched it was.
- Last week, when the comic hit 
the stands, I should have known 
better than to buy it since The 
Crows creator, James OBarr, 
only did the cover and produced 
the story idea. You would think 
OBarr made enough money off 
the movie and merchandising 
(hat he wouldnt have to whore 
ut his ideas to hacks to make a 
buck.
Much like the original Crow 
limited series, this three-issue 
eries is black and white with 
|ully painted color covers. At 
(east OBarr did the cover, which 
t>y itself is worth the $2.95.
; I was touched to see that the 
'jover is, in a sense, a memorial 
Brandon Lee, who died in a 
'freak accident while filming The 
row. Obviously OBarrs talents 
le in painting rather than pencil 
irt, so the fact that he wouldnt 
fye doing the black-and-white in
terior art wasnt a disappoint
ment. It wouldnt take much to be 
to improvement. Newcomer
Alexander Maleev still managed 
to disappoint my low expectations 
of the art.
Maleev is extremely inconsis
tent, spending half the pages 
mimicking OBarr and the rest 
being a poor mans Jae Lee 
tHellShock).
Another annoying factor is his 
mixture of panels in pencil with 
panels in chalk, sometimes on 
the same page.
This makes the book very dis
jointed.
I would say John Wagner did a 
poor job with the scripting, but 
hes just making do with the lame 
story OBarr gave him. I imagine 
the story outline looked like this: 
1). Read The Crow. 2).
Subtract late 20th Century 
characters and add characters 
from the late 19th Century. (And 
for a major twist to make the 
story unique.) 3). 19th Century 
characters are reincarnated in 
20th century rather than 19th. 
Wow! my head is still spinning 
from that development.
Dead Time could have easily 
been told by taking out the origi
nal dialogue and adding a hand
ful of pages to the first Crow se
ries.
Sure it was a great story, but 
just because OBarr wrote it 
doesnt give him the right to pla
giarize it.
What I can condemn Wagner 
for is the poor dialogue, what 
little there is. OBarrs dialogue 
was so realistic and moving and 
with Wagner the most insightful 
his characters get is, Yes! I know 
them.
The main problem with The 
Crow: Dead Time is that its not 
The Crow. I bet if I had never 
read the original series I would 
have enjoyed the spin-off a lot 
more. Dead Time lacks what 
made The Crow the best thing to 
come out of the underground:
F9 !dET> fI W-!iO
Tartan Staffwriter
Ever since Chris Farley bared 
all as a Chippendale dancer on a 
Saturday Night Live skit, he has 
been one of my favorite comedy 
actors.
What: Black Sheep 
Director: doeoRBso 
1sroohbu 
Company: dkhkcBLew 
db2wLhou
When he paired up with reallife pal David Spade for Tommy 
Boy, I laughed hysterically at one 
of last years most guilty plea
sures. I wouldnt go so far as to 
group them together with such 
classic comic duos as Abbot and 
Costello or Martin and Lewis, 
but Farley and Spade definitely 
have their moments.
So when the two funny men got 
back together for Black Sheep, I 
couldnt wait to see them in ac
tion again. Much to my dismay, 
however, I was in for a big disap
pointment.
Black Sheep is the story of Mike 
Donnelly (Farley), the wellintentioned but catastrophic 
brother of A1 Donnelly (Tim 
Matheson), a Washington state 
gubernatorial candidate. Mike 
loves his brother and wants to 
help him however he can, but 
succeeds only in causing trouble 
and headaches.
To keep Mike out of trouble, A1 
assigns Steve Dodd (David 
Spade), a lowly campaign worker, 
to Mike-sit. Sound familiar? If 
not, then you havent seen Tommy 
Boy and dont know that these 
two movies have almost exactly 
the same premise.
 dkhkcBLew db2wLhou'
frhbu gkhRo9 keS :kvbS 1skSo uwkh be Black Sheep.
The formula that works in 
Tommy Boy fails in Black Sheep. 
One of the main reasons is that 
the chemistry between Farley and 
Spade is mediocre at best. This is 
mainly because the sarcasm that 
pervades Spades character in 
Tommy Boy is much weaker this 
time around.
All of the humor is predictable. 
As soon as Farley chooses the top 
bunk of the bunk bed he shares 
with Spade, you know whats com
ing next.
The entire movie follows 
Murphys Law: if Chris Farley 
can screw up, he will.
Most of what is supposed to 
make us laugh is nothing more 
than Farley running around 
screaming. Theres also a lot of 
butt humor, which the eightyear-old boys in the theater found 
hysterical.
Later on in the movie, MTV 
gets a somewhat-gratuitous plug 
for Rock the Vote.
It takes place in Seattle, giv
ing the overrated music scene in
that city its own gratuitous plug., 
The scene that unfolds, whilet 
making me chuckle, just isnt that 
funny.
The purpose of the comedy .is 
simply to make the audience 
laugh. ,]
Black Sheep might make yoy., 
giggle here and there, but Farley 
and Spade have missed the mark 
this time around.
 dkhkcBLew db2wLhou 
1skSo keS gkhRo9 ckno k S9ekcb2 
SLBI
emotion. From reading the intro
duction to the trade paperback of 
The Crow, we find out that 
OBarrs tale was cathartic for 
him since he had also lost his 
wife. Every word, every stroke of 
the pencil meant something to 
OBarr, almost like therapy.
Now we have Wagner and 
Maleev telling a story that they 
have nothing invested in except a 
paycheck. In all of my writing 
classes I have been given the ad
vice, Write what you know. 
Thats what OBarr did, but 
Wagner falls short.
There are two issues left of Dead 
Time and I wont be picking them 
up.
Usually I always finish off a 
limited series, no matter how bad 
it is, yet this one was not truly 
worth finishing.
I hope other Crow fans will 
also skip the rest of the series 
making it a flop. Hopefully, 
Kitchen Sink will know better 
next time.
Jason Andracki is a junior pro
fessional writing major. He re
fuses to even acknowledge the ru
mor that Jon Bon Jovi will be 
replacing the late Brandon Lee in 
future Crow movies.
Free, independent production 
of Hair pleases CMU students
F9 :!VT: O>W!z
Tartan junior Staffwriter
When one usually thinks of 
staging musicals, lobbies are 
usually not one of the areas 
that come into consideration 
for choice of 
venue. Neverthe
less, the selec
tions from the 
musical Hair, 
staged February 
2 and 3 in the 
lobby of the Col
lege of Fine Arts 
building, seemed 
well-suited for 
its environment.
The area was 
decorated with a 
tie-dye backdrop 
and bright flow
ers adorned the 
walls.
The production 
was one where 
the audience was closely linked 
to the cast. Although the mu
sicians were located next to 
the tie-die near the stairs, varifinishing with the disappear
ance of the actors backstage, 
the audience was transported 
back in time to the sixties, 
where the production was set.1
walked through and around the 
audience, who took their seats on 
the floor.
Interaction with the onlookers 
took many forms, from eye con
tact and pointing to passing out Hair opened with the singing of 
flyers for a be-in to the ending The Age of Aquarius, and then
proceeded into a 
musical number 
dealing with 
drugs.
The action cen
tered around 
many issues, but 
focused mainly on, 
the aforemen
tioned drugs, warK 
sex and revolt froml 
authority, perhaps 
the the-mes that 
have come to char
acterize the era.
The main play-^ 
ers were Sheila, an 
activist attending 
'kuBe 1obSoeSBhlv ikhwke drBwB OSbwBh NYU Andrew a 
fWU uwLSoewu 2BRRkaBhkwo be Hair. painter, Berger, astudent who is kicked out ofwhere the cast personally
thanked everyone for coming by high school, and Claude, a re
shaking hands. cent draftee. Although it seems
Starting with an introduction as if Berger will be the center of 
ous cast members at times by the director of the musical and dRokuo uoo !TEN sko >Hm
Volunteers Wanted
participants are needed for a research study on stress 
and the common cold. Qualified volunteers will 
; recieve up to $120. Requires 2 office visits.
^r more information call Dr. Rodriguez at 268-5692
J
pThis summer you can 
speak Russian, meet Jefferson, 
fand get to know Billy Wilder...
.rowroh wB 2kw2r LsN ow krokSN Bh ow BLwN fBRLcabk Uebvohubw9 
bu wro sRk2o wB ao wrbu uLccohI iro 1Lccoh 1ouubBe Bllohu ke 
oxwoeubvo hkeo Bl hkSLkwo keS LeSohhkSLkwo Sk9 keS ovoebe 
2BLhuou be wro LckebwbouN 12boe2ou keS 1B2bkR 12boe2ouI
Our 96 offerings include:
FLubeouu fkhoohu TeuwbwLwo (2ohwblb2kwo shBhkc 
shoskhbe RbaohkR khwu hkSLkwou bBh aLubeouu 
u2rBBR Bh lBh 2khoohu be wro aLubeouu JBhRS)
 Okuw !ubke cLub2N rbuwBh9 keS RbwohkwLho
 fRkuub2u  fBcsLwoh 12boe2o  Lcke hbrwu
 zoJ tBhn kh2rbwo2wLho  1soo2r  .Bcoeu 
uwLSbou  .hbwbe  tbSSburIIIwB ekco k loJI
dRLuN uwLS9-kahBkS shBhkcu be TwkR9 keS dkhbuI
Call for our complete course listing
(212) 854-2820ext.B10
Or fax us (212) 854-7400
uLccohuouubBe@2BRLcabkIoSL Columbia University
(Please include postal mailing address) SUMMER SESSION 96 
Student Services Center. Lewisohn Hall (BC).
2970 Broadway Rm. 203, NYC 10027-6902
We are an altirmalive action/equal opportunity institution....or you could cut the grass.
Music & Lyrics by STEPHEN SQNPHEJW 
Book by HUGH WHmW 
* STUDENT TICKETS ARE ONLY s10 WITH I.D. (EXCEPT SAT 8PM)
dbwwuaLhr dLaRb2 irokwoh
321 -9600,

---------------------------------------------------

Learning Services Workshops
Paragraph Structure and Organizational Patterns 
Wednesday  February 7,1996 4:00  5:15 P.M.
Do you have trouble deciding which information in a textbook 
chapter is most important? This session will help you to understand 
how textbook chapters are organized and how to pick out the most 
important information in a chapter. Paragraph structure and patterns 
of organization will be identified. You will see how certian organiza
tional-patterns appear in certain subjects. During this session, you 
will have an opportunity to work with your own textbooks.
Preparing for Exams
Tuesday  February 13,1996 4:00  5:15 P.M.
Do you have trouble deciding what information will be on an 
exam? Do you have problems in merging text and lecture informa
tion? This session will help you to identify important information for 
exams and re-organize information for more effective studying.
Exam preperation strategies and self-testing strategies will be cov
ered. During the session, you will have an opportunity to practice 
these strategies in preparation for your next exam.
Successful Exam Strategies
Thursday  February 15,1996 4:00  5:15 P.M.
Do you have trouble answering multiple choice questions on an 
exam? How successful are you at answering essay questions? Do 
you freeze when you get an exam and have trouble answering any 
of the questions? This session will help you with strategies for an
swering all kinds of exam questions and coping with test anxiety.
To register for these workshops, contact Learning Ser
vices at 268-6878 or email: mw2v@andrew.
little ital\le italy
Pi zza pie. coMpqny
Cpizza au' notural')
I1wB. lblwr Bje<'D hokh f -knRkeS skI
Voluoome <G Voluo9VV
sbzzkN skuwkN 
akBbQpN 2kRzBBD
pwhBl^aBRbN ukRkSu 
i I^OTG.
ve.Ge.taRiciM v 
caRHive.Kou3 
cuisine.
---------  ' .
l 'khu sRkbe vsb2n Ls j 
------- uso2bkR' ____^
FRe.e. v Re.cwLe.22 pe.Live.Ry 
acce.pt a f f
CoMpe.titoR2 
coupons'
"thats right, 
we match any\ 
artificially low 
I prices offered/
T by the
evil corporate' 
giants we oneh 
day hope 
Jo become.
Disclaimer: the word reckless is intended to mean wreck 
As in: Impeccably safe & courtious drivers wreck less.
less
IGS ETOZONROJ EONSJNRyC
Theirs. Ours.
Whats your career strategy? If you want to work with this decades top graduates on the worlds hottest information technology, 
plan to join Oracle. Our software solutions are changing the way human knowledge is gathered, stored, retrieved and utilized. Record sales 
of $3 billion and nearly 50% growth in the last year alone have put us in an excellent position to hire-and promote-over 100 of the best 
of the Class of'96. If you have a BS/MS in CS, Math-CS, Information Networking, Technical Writing, Computer Engineering or 
Software Engineering, you could become an Oracle Software Developer, Consultant or Product Manager working on any number of
advanced technologies and products, including:
:bbwkR >bahkh9-"!RoxkeShbk" Tewoheow dhBSL2wu -ajo2w -hboewoS :kwkakuou
WoSbk -ajo2wu -ajo2w -hboewoS :ovoRBscoew iBBRu :buwhbaLwoS fBcsLwbe & zowJBhnbe
Oewohshbuo !ssRb2kwbBeu Tewohk2wbvo WLRwbcoSbk :kwk 1o2Lhbw9 !h2rbwo2wLho
WkuubvoR9 dkhkRRoR dhBSL2wu WBabRo fBcsLwbe Vohwb2kR !ssRb2kwbBeu
>beLbuwb2u FkuoS dhBSL2wu :kwk .khorBLube & Wbebe
We'll be interviewing on campus March 5 & 6. Sign up at the Career Center and pick up your copy of Projects at Oracle" today. E-mailed resumes strongly encouraged.
-E!f>O
Enabling the Information Age 
Oracle Corporation, 500 Oracle Parkway, Box 659501, Redwood Shores, CA 94065. E-mail: jobs@us.oracle.com FAX: 415-506-1073 
For additional information, visit our WEB SITE at: http://www.oracle.com/info/hr/recruiting.html. Equal talent will always get equal opportunity.

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan  Carnegie Mellon University  5 February 1996LL3
.<^7 Tl 1111 a 111 \ i
movies you may have seen before..
By JOHN BIGGS
Thursday, February 8
The Cook, The Thief, His 
Wife, & Her Lover
There are movies about eating cheese. There are 
movies about eating dinner. There are movies about 
eating monkeys. And there is a movie like The Cook, 
The Thief, His Wife, & Her Lover.
Consider this: There are a bunch of people in this 
movie. It is set in one big room, a restaurant, and all 
of the characters hang out in this big restaurant. 
Each part of it is a different color: The kitchen is 
blue. The bathroom is white. The dining room is red. 
And when the characters walk from room to room, 
the color of their costumes change. So people having 
sex in the bathroom wear white. People singing in 
the kitchen wear blue. People killing people in the 
dining room wear red. Pretty straight forward.
Then there are these evil gangster types who 
throw some guy into dog doo doo and there is a kid 
who sings in the aforementioned kitchen, and, fi
nally, there is a lot of sex and nakedness. It stars 
Tim Roth. It has a fat guy. There is death. There is 
eating. See it with someone who likes little hot dogs.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Friday, February 9
Panther
The panther is a beautiful animal with a long, 
sleek tail. Although some might mistake it for a 
puma, many others are not fooled. Pumas live in the 
mountains, while the lithe panther lives in the dark, 
green jungle.
Panthers are not good pets. If youre not careful, a 
panther can snip off your hand with only a nip of its 
powerful jaws. They hunt smaller animals, and are 
relatively solitary. There is a panther in Rudyard 
Kiplings The Jungle Book that is not very friendly, 
but, if proper care is taken, a panther will not hurt 
you unless provoked.
In all seriousness, this movie is a hard-hitting 
documentary on the Black Panthers directed by 
Mario Van-Peebles. But jungles are still pretty 
dangerous, so stay out of them.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
Saturday, February 10
The Name of the Rose
Sean Connery stars in this thrill-a-minute ride 
through the fast-paced world of a cloistered monk. 
See, someone is killing monks, and by God if it aint 
Jesus to blame. At least thats what the evil old 
nasty monk wants everyone to believe.
This movie is actually very good. There are some 
funny parts and some dead-people parts and some 
sex parts, so theres something for everyone. Also, if 
you close your eyes and imagine a fast car and cool 
gadgets, its almost like watching James Bond in 
The Spy Who Sold Indulgences.
At 5, 7:30,10 pm and 12:30 am.
Sunday, February 11
The Golden Voyage 
of Sinbad
This one is all about Sinbads urine and its golden 
voyage through the sewers of Oman. Watch it spiral 
down drains! Watch it evaporate and fall down as 
fain! Watch it end up as gray water that leaks into 
a river! Watch the water plant suck it up into one of 
those big towers! Watch Sinbad drink it again!
See, this movie is all about Sinbad (the Sailor, not 
the guy) who fights monsters designed by Ray 
Harryhausen, who used to hang out with Ray 
Bradbury. There are evil demons and a big boat he 
sails around in. This one is supposed to be a classic, 
and there really is a lot of urine involved in the 
Production of this movie.
At 6, 8,10 pm, and midnight.
Little Rock 5Mo,5 me0Mr I9 sgle51
By AMANDA SPEARS
Tartan Junior Staffwriter
the white students, with a KKKblues for the most part, with only Luther King. The changes durhood-owning cousin, a racist girla few forays into the treacle usuing scenes, especially during diafriend, and a pro-segregation ally associated with musicals. The logue, were distracting. The clioSaltworks Theatre Companys mother. live band, under the direction of reography was simple and unin-'
production of Little Rock, dealing Wayne ends up helping Belinda Darren McFate, played well, alwith the controvesial issue of racescape an attack by his cousin though the drums were often too
ism, was pleasanly suprising. and others, but the promise of loud and overbearing and the
All of you, Im sure,
probably have as 
much information 
about the Brown vs.
Topeka (Kansas)
Board of Education 
and the subsequent 
events in Little Rock,
Arkansas, when inte
gration was at
tempted. That is to 
say, very little. There 
was a nice little sec
tion of the program 
with a timeline of the 
events related to the 
play.
On May 17, 1954, 
the Supreme Court of 
the United States 
handed down the judg
ment on the Brown vs.
Topeka Board of Edu
cation, declaring 
Separate educational 
facilities are inher
ently unequal. In the 
summer of 1954, an 
extremely gradual 
plan of integration for 
the Little Rock schools 
was formulated.
The summer of 1957 saw 75 
black students sign up to attend 
the all white Central High. That 
number was pared (by the allwhite school board) to 25, nine of 
whom actually enrolled. Those 
nine became known as the Little 
Rock Nine and were to begin 
attending Central on September 
3,1957. However, on September 
2, Governor Faubus of Arkansas 
announced that he would call in 
the National Guard to keep the 
black students out, and the black 
students missed the first day of 
school. This is where Little Rock 
picks up.
Little Rock focuses on two teen
agers, Belinda Davis and Wayne 
Robertson, both students at Cen
tral High. There is one difference 
 Belinda is one of the Little 
Rock Nine and Wayne is one of
fBLhwou9 Bl 1kRwJBhnu irokwho fBI
iro cLub2kR Little Rock SokRu Jbwr hk2bkR bewohkwbBeI
friendship is never fulfilled. This 
play focused not only on racism 
and violence, but also on the hope 
and reservations of the black 
families involved, adding humor 
as well.
The show is essentially about 
the events of that first year of 
integration, which ended with the 
graduation of one of the Little 
Rock Nine who was a senior and 
the subsequent closing of the 
Little Rock public schools for the 
next school year.
It shows, as the program as
sures us, real events, and the 
characters are composites of the 
real Little Rock Nine. Political 
correctness and earnestness 
aside, the ensemble does a fine 
job, especially for a young cast, 
(10 real teenagers!).
The music is a mix of rock and
singers voices seemed to fade at 
times due to the loudness of the 
band. The singing ranged from 
absolutely excellent on the part 
of Faith R. Rodman, who played 
Belinda, to weak from Floyd 
Navarro,who portrayed her dad, 
to soft from Jordan Mueller, who 
played Wayne.
The set was simple and worked 
well, providing for interesting 
blocking and change of scene. A 
set piece original to this produc
tion (the east coast premiere 
which is only the second of this 
show) is a slide show on a screen 
at the back of the stage. It showed 
slides relevant to the action and 
was used to set scenes. Some of 
the slides worked really well and 
added to the set, such as slides of 
the real days at Central High, 
Elvis, Eisenhower, and Martin
spired, emphasized by mediodr^ 
dance training on the part of someof the cast members.
The writing was right 
on for most of the playj,*. 
including lines like mIx' 
are going to be like pee
per specks in jar of salt, 
from Belindas little si's-' 
ter, played well by Shani 
J. Alexander. I talked 
with Kermit Frazier, t|ne 
playwright, after the* 
show, and asked him 
why he chose the musi
cal genre. He told me 
that the Childrens The-> 
ater of Seattle commis-^. 
sioned him to write arock-and-roll musical 
about the history :bf 
Little Rock, exploringthe history and the sup,-; - 
posed bond that music 
creates among teens .oir. 
different races and back>_ 
grounds. He, as well ss_ 
I, realized that bond;;, 
doesnt always exist. 1 , 
This is illustrated in' 
the play by the white 
kids love of Elvis, >.a 
white performer who" 
stole many of his songs., 
from black performersl 
who did rock and roll first and 
better, and the black kids loving 
Big Mama Thorton, the performer* 
who did the original Hound Dog, 
one of Elvis biggest hits. ^V.
Although heavy handed iijv, 
places, Little Rock was well worth" 
seeing. (<
Directed by Jeffrey DeVincent, 
it has some flaws in terms of time 
continuity and weak directorial 
choices in terms of blocking, which 
you might want to consider be
fore shelling out the $10 for a 
student ticket.
It is showing at the Eddy The
ater on the Chatham campus and 
show times are at 7:30 pm with 
2:30 pm matinees on Saturday" 
and Sunday. It plays February 
9-10 andl 6-18. It probably wont* 
change your life, but its a damn 
fine way to learn a little history.
Hair worth more than the price of admission
!TEN lhBc page >RR
the plot when he is applauded 
after being shunned from school, 
it is Claude who ends up stealing 
the attentionof both the plot and 
the audience.
As the musical progresses, he 
presents a wide range of emo
tions, from being happy and hav
ing a good time to despairing at 
having to go to war, and every
thing imaginable in between.
As it turns out, war is some
thing that cannot be avoided, and 
reluctantly he leaves after a final 
bout of drugs and sex. In keeping 
with the spirit of the era, the 
ending is predictable and regret
table. All receive news of Claudes 
death and are shocked.
Strangely, the show seems to 
end on an up note with hope for a
future that may be better.
The production was wellstaged, with costumes including
big hair and bright fabrics, tiedyes and beads.
The music that accompanied
Hair Jku sohlBhcoS be wro fg! RBaa9I
'kuBe 1oboeSBhlv ikhwke drBwB OSbwBh
the songs was mellow and guitardriven, echoing through the lobby. 
Although at times it was hard to 
hear the vocals over the music, 
they were still powerful both in 
voice and impact.
The acting was good, with 
the performances of Berger and 
Claude standing out, perhaps 
because they were the stron
gest characters.
Overall, Hair was a pleasant 
experience that brightened 
CMU in the middle of a seem
ingly unending winter. Those 
that saw it were lucky.
Those who did not can still 
take away the main message of 
being an individual free from 
the surrounding society. As 
long as we remember this, 
Claude will live on.
FRANCE AUSTRIA RUSSIA ENGLAND
U3N
3mCQ
UJ
<&co
z<

UJ
O
co
Global Internship 
and Language 
Programs
BOSTON
anegirSetu
International Programs
For more information, please contact: 
Boston University International Programs 
232 Bay State Road, Box Q, Boston, MA, 02215 
617/353-9888 
E-Mail: abroadObu.edu 
World Wide Web: http://web.bu.edu/abroad
moc
>oo7>
OXz>
w
:>
C/5
>
An equal opportunity, affirmative action institution.
FRANCE AUSTRIA RUSSIA ENGLAND

---------------------------------------------------

P opuli
V
Football play of the week: TMJ takes the ball and starts running, then passes to TJ, who still 
has the ball when he Is stripped from behind Wayne, who apparently is running the WRONG 
WAY!!!!!
11 MBHBBe i *  THI
Happy Stoopid birthday, Squirt. 
But it comes with a free frogurt!
I dont deserve this kind of shabby treatment! 
illjasmlne loves ledger buff
j  we will never understand, will we  b 
Way to go Waki  Ahem, Waki Sama!!!
3DC is way cool. Thanks Cindy 
Blue Rangers Tuesdays Rocks
Have you seen my frog  Ribbit  stop that! Youre on the pot.
Is this Vox Connery - its Connariflc But Is It bigger than his head?
drBwB 2BLhwou9 Tewohuwkh EoRokube 
1oke fBeeoh9 uwkhu be The Name of the Rose, sRk9be wrbu Joon be : 22H0I
YbsrY7a5el
( dem15
The Cook, The Thief., His Wife, & Her Lover
will play in DH 2210 this Thursday at 5, 7:30,10 
pm, and 12:30 am.
Panther will play this Friday in DH 2210 at 5, 
7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
The Name of the Rose will play this Saturday 
in DH 2210 at 5, 7:30,10 pm, and 12:30 am.
The Golden Voyage of Sinbad will play in DH 
2210 this Sunday at 6, 8,10 pm and midnight.
{sreali Film Festival at the Beehive in Oak
land, featuring Witchcraft. Sunday February 11 
at 3 pm. Tickets are $3.00. Sponsored by the 
Jewish University Center/Hillel Foundation.
Secuestro: A Story of a Kidnapping. In 1985, 
21 year old Sylvia Motta was kidnapped on her 
way to school. She was held in a small room for 
three months while her father negotiated a price 
for. her liberty. The story is a microcosm of the 
Latin American social reality, where short
sighted exploitation of resources and human 
beings has seriously undermined the fabric of 
enitre nations. In Columbia, a kidnapping occurs 
every seven hours. In Spanish with English 
subtitles. Friday, February 9 at 8 pm. The 
Carnegie Museum of Art Theater.
A Certain Morning explores illusions and 
realities. The main character, Tiga, is a farmer 
who lives peacefully with his wife and children 
on the Mossi plateau. When he hears a woman 
calling for help one day, his entire world is called 
into question. This is the first film by Fanta 
Nacro and the first fiction film by a Burkinabi 
woman. In Moor6 with English subtitles. Satur
day and Sunday, February 10 and 11 at 8 pm. 
The Carnegie Museum of Art Theater. Admis
sion is $5.00. Admission for students, senior 
citizens, and members of the Carnegie is $4.00.
LMogrso
City Theatre presents If We Are Women, a 
literate and poetic celebration of human spirit 
inspired by a comment from Virginia Woolf. The 
show will run from January 19 - February 11. 
For ticket prices and show times, call 431-4400.
Saltworks Theatre Company presents Little 
Rock, a musical focused on the events of the 
Civil Rights Movement involving the desegrega
tion of Central High School in Little Rock, 
Arkansas. Little Rock will be performed by 
Saltworks Theatre Company at the Eddy The
atre, Chatham College on February 1 - 4, 9 -11 
and 16-18. Show times are at 7:30 pm with 
matinees on Saturday and Sunday at 2:30 pm. 
Single tickets are $12 for adults, $10 for seniors 
and $8 for children. For more information about 
Little Rock, call their Box Office at 687-8884.
Sports
Hockey away at Robert Morris College on Friday, 
February 9 at 9:30 pm.
Mens and womens basketball teams will host 
the University of Chicago teams on Friday at 6 pm. 
On Sunday, they will host Washington University 
at 1 pm.
More Hockey on Saturday at 8:30 pm. This time 
CMU takes on neighboring University of Pitts
burgh.
Men's Foil Fencing Team competes this Satur
day, February 10 to qualify for the U.S. National 
Team Championship. Questions should be ad
dressed to Thibaut de Barros Conti 621-1921.
: Vog,e905
Beehive Reading Series will be having open mic 
at 8 pm and is scheduled to have Linda McDonald 
and Leslie Mcllroy read at 8:30 pm. The readings 
will be on Thursday at the Forbes Avenue Beehive 
on the second floor. For more information call 
Micki Myers at 441-2859 or email 
mk57@andrew.cmu.edu.
The Carnegie Museum of Art celebrates black 
history month. Family and friends of all ages can 
explore works of art by African-American artists in 
the Museum galleries with a free gallery talk at 2 
pm. Meet at the Museum art shop.
Forbes Gallery Senior Shows begin this semes
ter with an exhibition of the work of Donna 
DiBartolomeo, Lynn Kim, and Nina Sweeney. The 
show will feature sculpture, painting, installation 
and sound pieces by the three artists. A closing 
reception and extravaganza will be held on Friday, 
February 9, 7 - 9 pm. All are welcome to attend. 
Refreshments will be served, live entertainment.
Tickled Pink, recent artworks concerning femi
ninity and the body by Alexa Brennan. February 3 
- 24 the Turmoil Room, 704 South Trenton. For 
more infomation call 241-8994.
An exhibit of large-scale three dimensional 
artworks entitled, Environ/Mentality will be 
displayed from February 9 to March 3. Opening 
reception is Friday, February 9, 7 - 10 pm at 
Brew House Space 101, 21000 Mary Street on 
the South Side. For more information, call 381- 
7767.
Stone Soup, Joey Murphy, and others will play 
at Club Joy, Downtown, 3rd and Grant St. Febru
ary 3.
The Gathering Field with Stone Soup, at Nick's 
Fat City on the Southside. February 17. Show 
starts at 10.
Welcome to the Days of Hope and Rage 
Valentines Day Concert featuring Psoda, Bucky 
Guda, arid Blind Sight at the Duncan and Porter 
House. Saturday February 10 at 9:30 pm. Call 231- 
2766 more information.
Wynton Marsalis and the Lincoln Center 
Jazz Orchestra will perform at the Fulton 
Theater on February 15 at 8 pm. For tickets and 
more information, call Y Music Society and the 
Early Childhood Developments Department of 
the Jewish Community Center at 521-8010.
An evening with Cole Porter starring Elise 
Green ... only the finest in musical stylings. 
Saturday, February 10 at 8 pm, Chatham 
College. For more information call 421-5386. 
Sponsored by The Jewish University Center/ 
Hillel Foundation.
AIrelo5
Arts Happy Hour at Rosebud Cafe. 165C1 
Smallman Street in the Strip District. Beat those 
mid-winter bash! Join your colleagues in the arts 
community for some good cheer and good talk. 
Cash bar and complimentary hors doeuvres. Thurj 
day, February 8, 5 - 8 pm. For more information 
call 268-8437. Sponsored by ProArts & Artist' 
Equity Association.
The Second Annual MOBOT Race is drawing 
near! The preliminary competition is scheduled foi 
Wednesday, April 3; final competition for Friday, 
April 19 (Spring Carnival). MOBOT open housei; 
scheduled for Thursday, February 15, 6 - 7 pm,
Wean Hall 7500. All potential contestants and 
interested parties are invited to attend. Video
tapes, the Mobot Committee and pizza will be 
available. Questions are welcome. Contact 
mobot@cs.cmu.edu for details, or see our web page 
at "http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~alumni/mobot.htmr
J erusalem 3000 Celebration. Enjoy Isreaeli food 
and music in a casual yet refined atmosphere on 
Wednesday, February 7 .at 6 pm. Beehive Coffee 
house, Oakland. Sponsored by the Jewish 
Univeristy Center/Hillel Foundation. 
The annual Festival of Voices features women 
poets and writers reading their original works will 
be held at Community College of Allegheny 
Countys Allegheny Campus Womens Center on 
Friday, March 22 and Saturday, March 23 from 11 
am to 8 pm. Women poets and writers who wish to 
participate are asked to submit by Friday, Febru
ary 9. Send submissions to Lisa Tellers, Library 
114, CCAC, Allegheny Campus, 808 Ridge Av
enue, Pittsbrugh, PA 15212. For more informa
tion, call Ms. Tellers at 237-4613.
Jonny Gammage and the Fight Against Po
lice Brutality is the topic of a conference to take 
place on February 10 at Carnegie Mellon Unveristy 
The conference, scheduled for 1  6:30pm will take 
place in Baker Hall and will include panels of 
speakers and workshops. Confirmed speakers at 
the conference include Pittsburgh City Council
man, Sala Udin; Khalid Rahim of the Million Man 
March Organizing Committee; Lorenzo Kamboa 
Ervin, an anti-police brutality organizer from At
lanta; Vac Walczak from the ACLU; Connie 
Wellons, a former member of the Pittsburgh Hu
man Relations Commission; Pittsburgh lawyer 
Paul Gettelman, and others. Four workshops at 
the conference will take up the following issues 
Police Brutality cases and the Law; Strategies foi 
Combatting Police Brutality, Racism and Police 
Brutality; and Political Repression and the Death 
Penality. For more information contact Pete Shell 
521-7966 or email pshell@cmu.edu.
olraso5
The Art Department Spring 1996 Lecture 
Series presents artist Richard Artschwager who 
will give a lecture entitled "Cause & Effect/Lineal 
Time" on Thursday, February 8 at 5 pm in DH 
2315. The lecture is free and open to the public. 
Artschwager was co-winner of the Carnegie Pri 
for his current work in the Carnegie International 
For more information, visit http://www 
art.cfa.cmu.edu/ or call 268-2409.
Who Can You Trust? lecture series. Thurs 
days, February 8,15,22 at 8 pm. MorewoodPiper! 
Cafe. For more information, contact Andrew RyaI 
at 862-2696. Sponsered by ICVF.
