The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 14, January 28, 1986.
Andrew Announced
"I Have a Dream"
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
President Reagan declared Monday, 
January' 20. 1986 a national holiday in obser 
vance of Dr. Martin Luther Kings's birthday.
Across the nation, some schools did not 
hold regularly scheduled classes to celebrate 
this day. Carnegie-Mellon University did. In 
opposition to this, the drama students 
organized what they called, a protest in the 
form of a celebration."
During the week before the "holiday, 
drama student. Michael Winks went before 
the senior class, graduate students, directors, 
writers, and production people and asked 
them to do something to protest the univer 
sity s non-observance of Dr. King's birthday. 
They decided to petition President Cyert for 
a formal recognition of the national holiday 
which would involve a day off from classes.
Their petition read:
President Cyert:
We, the undersigned students at CarnegieMellon University have participated in a 
dramatic reading of the enclosed speech. 
Through our participation we hoped to pay 
homage to Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King 
and share with the students our respect for 
his work.
We feel the university has not given Dr. 
King the respect he deserves by holding 
regular classes on this day. In signing this 
letter, we hope you will reconsider this policyMargaret Morrison Protested
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffwriter 
After almost an hours debate at its 
anuary 23, 1986 meeting, the Carnegie 
Mellon Faculty Senate recommended that 
the controversial inscription above Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie Hall remain, but that an 
lending plaque be added.
The motion, which was made by Tom 
Kerr, associate professor of law and in
dustrial administration, suggested that a 
c<5rnmittee be established, including 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College alumni> to word a plaque about the inscription 
and Margaret Morrison Carnegie College 
rtself, and was passed overwhelmingly by the 
Senate. This was Kerrs second motion, 
lending his November motion that the enlre inscription be removed.
1 he inscription on the outside portico, a 
Rotation from W. Lucien Scaife, is con
sidered by some to be offensive or 
chauvinistic. It reads:
To make and inspire the home; to lessen 
suffering and increase happiness; to aid 
mankind in its upward struggles; to enno
ble and adorn lifes work, however humble; 
these are womans high prerogatives.
Built in 1906, Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall, named for Andrew 
Carnegies mother, once housed Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College, one of the four 
schools of the original Carnegie Institute of 
Technology. MMCC was a womens school 
that was in existence from 1906 - 1970, and 
offered classes in the fields of home 
economics, secretarial studies, costume 
economics, home arts and crafts, social 
work, general science, and later, nursing. 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall now 
houses SUPA, in addition to undergraduate 
classes for Carnegie Mellon.
The area in front of Margaret Morrison 
Carnegie Hall was described by Kerr as the 
central place where persons would first 
come onto campus, and the inscription on 
its rotunda sparked a discussion at the Facul
ty Senate meeting.
"At the present time in our country, at 
whatever level, the statistics are irrefutable 
that women are paid about sixty percent 
of what men are paid, Kerr said, explain
ing why he felt that the inscription should 
be removed. We are discussing an expres
sion about discrimination that is not yet over 
in this country.
"As far as our students are concerned, Er
win Steinberg, professor of English and the 
last dean of MMCC, asserted, "We teach 
them to read in context. (The inscription) 
means aiding humankind. He also question
ed the benefits of removing the saying from 
continued on page 2
in future years. If even President Reagan can 
see fit to honor Dr. King with a national holi
day, Carnegie-Mellon can shut its doors and 
allow its students to remember King's dream.
We hope you will pass on this letter to the 
universitys board of trustees.However, the students wanted to do 
something more in keeping with the spirit of Dr. Martin Luther King than just writing a letter. So. drama students such as Nicole Austin, Kevin Black, Seth Gordon, and 
Tracey Turner participated in a dramatic reading of King's acclaimed speech, "I Have a Dream, and sang songs in his memory.
Their protest took place last Monday underneath the flagpole and lasted for one hour. Most students were not aware of their movement, but thought it was a good idea, 
and some, despite the snow, joined in.
"He (Dr. Martin Luther King) worked for 
everyone. It can t just be blacks out here and 
it can't be just whites, it has to be a joint effort," said Tracey Turner and Nicole 
AustinDavid Bartlett, a PhD candidate, who has participated in similar protests in the past at Dartmouth College commented, It's 
nice to see this here."When asked why the university did not 
have a specific day off from classes. Presi
dent Cyert. replied, We don t have off for Washingtons birthday or Lincolns birthday 
continued on page 4
In This Issue:
News
South Yemen......................page 3
Carneige Salutes Carnegie..page 4
Features
Carnegie Men......................page 7
Entertainment
Nuts...................................page 11
Concert of the Month.......page 12
Sports
Brcic Saves........................page 18
Hockey Falls......................page 20
Editorial.............................page 22
ACME...............................page 24
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Andrew, software developed for educa
tional computing, was introduced January 
21 for student and faculty use at Carnegie
Mellon.
Andrew is a set of systems software 
modules that can be used on highperformance personal computers for writing 
programs, word processing, communication, 
networking, graphics, learning and 
research.
This is the first time this software has been 
made accessible for general use in a univer
sity community. It represents a new stage in 
the development of Andrew (named in 
honor of Messrs. Carnegie and Mellon), 
which CMU and IBM researchers have been 
working on since 1982. Andrew is being
developed by the Information Technology 
Center (ITC), a CMU research center fund
ed entirely by a five-year, $40 million grant 
from IBM, Ten IBM employees and 25 CMU 
employees work full time at the ITC. The 
ITC chiefly develops software, which IBM 
owns.
"Carnegie Mellon is grateful for the 
substantial support IBM has given to ad
vanced educational computing here, said 
Richard M. Cyert, President of Carnegie 
Mellon. "IBMs support in our long-range 
goals, and IBMs contribution in helping us 
achieve those goals, are of utmost impor
tance. Without this cooperation, our vision 
of the high-tech university of the future 
could not be realized.
The intent of the agreement between 
continued on page 4

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanJanuary 28, 1986
CMU's $35 Million Hotel-Conference Center
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffwriter
Plans for building a $35 million hotelconference center on the site which is 
presently part of the Morewood Gardens 
parking lot are continuing to develop.
With the Carnegie Mellon University 
trustees approval on December 12, 1985, 
which allowed a Carnegie Mellon commit
tee and an outside development group to 
outline a lease agreement and financial ar
rangements, the Forbes*Avenue Complex 
is one step closer to becoming a reality.
Carnegie Mellon officials stress the fact 
that the hotel-conference center will not be 
built or operated by Carnegie Mellon. The 
outside developing firm International Con
ference Resorts (ICR), based in Scottsdale, 
AZ., will lease the Morewood lot from 
Carnegie Mellon, giving the university a 
share of the complexs proceeds. ICR will be 
responsible for the cost of the complex, in 
addition to its building and management.
University architect Doug Philp explain
ed why International Conference Resorts was 
selected as the developer for the project: 
(ICR) understands and knows the urban 
market, and is comfortable with it. Philp 
said that the hotel-conference center will be
geared primarily to the corporate market, 
Fortune 100 companies.
While the plans are not definite, Philp 
said that the center would probably consist 
of three parts: a hotel, a conference
building, and an office complex.
The hotel will hold approximately 300 
rooms, and although its primary market will 
be conference groups, Philp said that ar
rangements making excess capacity 
available to overnight guests could hopefully 
be worked out with ICR. Head of the 
Carnegie Mellon Planning Department 
Patrick Keating also mentioned the possibili
ty, suggesting that parents might be able to 
use the hotel at times such as graduation, 
parents weekend, etc.
The second part of the complex, the con
ference center, would be comprised of 
meeting rooms and lecture halls. The 
possibility of including a high-quality 
restaurant or food-service for the complexs 
clientele also exists.
The office complex, the third part of the 
proposed Forbes Avenue Complex, is an at
tempt to fill the demand of companies to 
be close to facilities such as these and the 
University, possibly for research interests, 
said Keating. (The office complex) would 
be available for rent to these companies,
allowing them to utilize the conference 
center, and be close to university activity.
Keating emphasized several of the benefits 
that this project would bring to Carnegie 
Mellon. Facilities and programs that will be 
to the advantage of the entire Oakland com
munity, including Pitt, the museum, and the 
health complexes, in addition to the facul
ty and students of Carnegie Mellon, will be 
attracted to the complex.
Also, International Conference Resorts is 
very strong in the area of audio-visual 
facilities. The university may have access to 
these facilities. The complex will also create 
job opportunities, possibly for students. Ac
cording to Philp, ICR is known for its 
responsibility-driven management techni
ques, and the positive morale of its 
employees.
One drawback to the building of the 
Forbes Avenue Complex is the loss of park
ing space that it would bring. Philp said that 
a structural parking unit between the com
plex and Morewood Gardens is a definite 
consideration. A portion of the revenue that 
Carnegie Mellon will receive from the hotelconference center may be used for building 
a parking garage, which would hold approx
imately 600 vehicles.
Both Keating and Philp were very 0p. 
timistic about the possibility of the hotelconference center, which is only one part of 
Carnegie Mellons master long-range plan 
for improving the campus. The plan also in. 
eludes the building of a University Center 
a recreational facility that would involve 
renovating and adding on to Skibo. The 
center would include an Olympic-size p00/ 
tennis and racquetball courts, and an indoor 
jogging track. The plan also calls for adding 
space to Skibo, which will involve recon
figuring the interior for circulation, and 
redefining the use of already existing space' 
according to Philp. The University Center, 
Philp said, is Carnegie Mellons highest 
priority in raising money. It has the atten
tion of the Administration. He feels that the 
lack of a recreational facility is the most 
significant deficiency on campus relative to 
other schools.*
While plans are still hazy for the Univer
sity Complex, remaining dependent on the 
Universitys raising the $25 million that the 
project would require, Philp is hopeful that 
the Forbes Avenue Complex will soon 
become a reality. He is optimistically look
ing toward the spring of 1988 for its com
pletion, if the plans meet zoning approval. 
We just have to make it happen, Philp said.
Center For Art and Technology Unites Colleges
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Some people see Carnegie Mellon as a 
segregated school. Little interaction goes on 
between the separate colleges, save the 
engineers who stumble into your English 
class, griping about their humanities re
quirements. Scenes like this aside, theres lit
tle chance for the sciences to meet the 
humanities and arts in a unified at
mosphere. However, the university is taking
steps to ease the situation. One such venture 
is the Center for Art and Technology 
(CA&T), the brainchild of computer scien
tists and artists.
The CA&T, located on the first floor of the 
College of Fine Arts (CFA) building, pro
vides technological aids for the development 
and enhancement of the arts. Says Joe 
Ballay, artistic director of the Center and 
professor of Design, Our job is to produce 
accessible tools for artists, get them into the
F? LITTLE ATHENS
2103 Murray Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15217 422-1330
Open 11 AM  11 PM All Week jj^i
WHY GO ALL THE WAY TO GREECE? 
WHEN LITTLE ATHENS CAN COME TO YOU!
MEMO
GYROS ...................................................................................... $2.35
SHlSHRflBDBS ................................................................... $2.85
SHISHRflBDB DIMMER salad rtce skewer of fneut. pastry a . $5.B0
6REER SflLflD ................................................................... $1.65
flRTIGHDKE SflLflD ................................................... $2.00
BRflPE LEflUES ................................................................ $Z.Z5
HDMM0U5 chick pea dip .  . . ...................................... $1.40
BflBfl BHflMOBE eggplant dip . . . . ........................... $1.40
CQMBIMflTIDM PLATTER ,ce sa,ad ^ ................... $3.70
FRLflFIL tried ground chick peas  onion and parsley  . ................... $1.70
CHEESE & SPIMflCH PIES.......................................... $1.10
RICE PUDOinG ................................................................... $ .75
GREEK PASTRIES ............................................................. $ .50
FREMCH FRIES ......................................................... $ .75
Plus Tax
U/E DELIUER FREE
$5.00 Minimum
CTTTO
LUMGH 
11 AM  Z PM
DIMMER 
5 PM  11 PM
Delivery to; Oakland, Squirrel Hill, & Shadyside.
hands of people who can really use them. 
The various systems and packages 
available include; PANDA (Painting and 
Drawing Access), where the terminal 
becomes the students canvas and which of
fers a varied menu of line styles, shape 
generators, marks, and a 256 color palette, 
which can be used to create new colors; 
VEGA, which allows architects to view threedimensional geometric models; The Musi
cians Workbench, where composers can 
write music while a computer digitizes it, 
synthesizes instruments, and then performs 
the score; Theater Design, which brings 
together the sets, lighting and costumes pro
posed for a stage production and allows the
designers to see what the end result will be 
before the actual construction has begun; 
and Automated Publisher, and informationsharing system for authors, editors, and 
publication designers. Right now, the 
systems are available to only certain courses 
although they may eventually be open to the 
entire campus community and sold on the 
open market.
Several other schools have centers similar 
to ours, among them Cal Techs Jet Propul 
sion Lab and the New York Institute of 
Technology, noted primarily for graphics ^ 
and animation. Stanford, MIT and Ohio 
State University, which produced the anima 
continued on page 4
Margaret Morrisoncontinued from page 1 
the rotunda: If we remove it, it will not raise 
the income of women in the United States. 
If we leave it up there, it will not hurt any 
women... It will not mean that we are 
espousing that saying.
Juan Schaffer, professor of mathematics, 
found the inscription Shocking. It says 
women are not a part of mankind, that they 
aid mankind and are auxiliary members. 
That is an intolerable concept.
Bennett McCallon, a professor in GSIA, 
disagreed with the idea that the language 
is offensive, and instead tried to put it into
perspective. It was appropriate at the time 
for the purpose of that particular college, 
he said. It seems unnecessary to remove 
them now.
Removing the inscription, Kerrs original 
motion, would be extremely expensive. 
University architect Doug Philp estimated 
that removing the 88 tiles would cost bet 
ween $30,000 and $40,000.
The plaque, giving the Senate committees 
interpretation of the inscription and a brief 
history of the building, will be placed in the 
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall rotunda.
Women's 
Health Services.
 FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
OaklandRm. 212, 3520 Forbes Ave.
Downtown3rd floor, 107 6th St.
 ABORTION SERVICES
 BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name 
Street, 
City _State.Zip
College (if student) ____________________ Mail to:* WHS,* 107 6th St., Pittsburgh, PA 15222

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 1986The TartanPage 3i
international Forum: South Yemen's Civil War
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staff writer
Fierce fighting began between the divid
ed 27,500-man, Soviet equipped military of South Yemen on January 13th and is 
threatening to develop into a protracted civil 
.  war. The main rift is between 
^ the forces of President Ali Nasser 
Mohammed Hassani and Com^ munist hardliners led by formerPresident Abdel Fattah Ismail. However, at 
least four different factions were reported to be fighting each other.
Initial accounts of the rebellion indicated 
that Ismail and other rebels had been ex
ecuted, and that Hassanis forces had con
trol of the country, but these reports were 
false. On Saturday the 18th, President 
Hassani flew to Ethiopia, stopping to meet 
with Yemens (South Yemens northern 
neighbor) President to insure Yemeni 
tribesmen did not take advantage of its 
unstable condition and raid South Yemen.
By Monday the 20th, the forces of Abdel 
Ismail were reported to have taken control 
of Aden and most of the country. Hassani 
returned on Monday and fighting is still go
ing on between the Communist factions. As 
many as 10,000 people have been reported 
killed in the fighting, with twice that 
number injured. The most recent reports 
claim the rebels now have control of most 
of the nation, but Hassanis forces are still 
holding their ground.
In 1978, a 20-year friendship treaty was 
signed between the Soviet Union and South 
Yemen and ties are still strong. The USSR 
has naval bases and about 1,000 military 
personnel in South Yemen, a major political 
ally of the Soviets in the Arab world.
The Soviets were reported to have been 
surprised by the rebellion and relatively 
helpless in intervening. They hope to pre
vent the movement of the conflict into 
neighboring states and align themselves with 
the winning faction. The Soviets are now 
believed, by Washington, to prefer the more 
radical forces under Ismail. Officially they 
have remained neutral. Evacuation of 
foreigners (mainly from Soviet-bloc coun
tries) has been going on for over a week, with 
the help of the British royal yacht Brittania 
and other vessels in the area.
This weeks Fighting can be traced to the 
1978 overthrow of President Robayi Ali. Ali 
had been attempting to improve strained 
relations with Saudi Arabia and even the US, 
and opposed sending troops to aid the 
Soviets in Ethiopia. With the Soviets sup
port, ultra-leftist General Secretary Abdul 
Ismail carried out Alis overthrow with the 
help of Hassani, and became President.
In 1979, South Yemen invaded Yemen but 
were stopped when the US intervened by sen
ding cruisers to the Red Sea and arranged 
a cease-fire. This prevention of Soviet expan
sion was a major shift in President Carters 
foreign-policy.
By 1980, President Ismail was forced out 
of power by Hassani who opposed Ismails 
radical views. Ismail then exiled himself to 
the Soviet Union. President Hassanis policies 
were more moderate, with attempts to im
prove relations with Saudi Arabia and 
Oman, and possible unification with Yemen.
Last year, Ismail returned to become a 
member of the Politburo and appease 
radical critics of Hassanis policies. Just as 
he overthrew Rob aye Ali because of his 
moderate policies, Ismail is again attemp
ting to overthrow the South Yemeni govern
ment, motivated by his ultra-leftist beliefs.
Because the United States has had no for
mal ties with South Yemen since 1969, few 
US interests are directly endangered by the 
civil war. Both major factions fighting in 
South Yemen have announced strong sup
port for the USSR, so the US gains nothing 
directly if the moderates win. However, the 
US is concerned that the civil war will af
fect South Yemens neighbors, in which we 
have diplomatic and military interests.
At the moment, the Fighting has not 
spread outside South Yemen. It seems that 
victory by Hassani would be most advan
tageous to Saudi Arabia, Oman and Yemen, 
and thus serve US interests. Hassani had 
begun to develop closer relations with these 
nations and so bring some stability to an ex
tremely unstable region. With an ultra
leftist like Ismail in power, relations will pro
bably deteriorate and warfare between 
South Yemen and Yemen could erupt.
?aces
ice creamery
TAKE A BREAK FROM DORM FOOD!
Go to PACES '
Now serving dinner 5-9 p.m. 
Spaghetti and other specials 
$3.49 with roll and butter 
Hamburgers served all day
Paces also has homemade cones & ice cream 
420 S. Craig St.
(at Forbes)
683-2780
11:30 - 11:00 Sun-Th 
11-30 - 12:00 Fri-Sat
GeographyWith an area of 112,000 sq. miles, South Yemen holds a strategic position on the southern coast of the Arabian Peninsula. It is bordered by the Yemen Arab Republic to the northwest, Saudi Arabia to the north, Oman to the east and the Strait of Bab el Mandeb to the south, through which 60% of the oil used by Western Europe and Israel is carried. Most of the land is barren desert, with minimal rainfall, except in the mountainous regions to the north.
PeopleThe population in 1981 was estimated at about 2 million, although an official count has never been made. Most South Yemenis are subsistence farmers or nomadic hunters. The majority are Arabic-speaking Muslims, with the Shafai school of Sunni Islam dominating. Although Arabic is the official language, English is widely understood. Continued divisions among the people by tribe and region still develop into violent conflicts, despite Communist rule.
EconomyThe nationalized economy of South Yemen is con centrated in the port city of Aden, which collects income as a service stopover. Mineral deposits have not been exploited and any light industry' presently specializes in goods for the local market. Most of the population provide for themselves with grains and livestock; however cotton is grown as a cash crop for export. A potential source of wealth is the fishing in dustry, although, foreign aid. coming largely from socialist countries, is still heavily relied upon.
GovernmentThe People's Democratic Republic of Yemen (South Yemen's official name) is the only Marxist state in the Arab world. The government is based on the Soviet system, with the Yemen Socialist Party (YSP) as the only legal party. The YSP Secretary General heads a sevenmember Politburo, which dictates party policies. Since 1980, the President has also functioned as Party Secretary General and Prime Minister.
HistoryAs an important port city, Aden went through the hands of the Ottoman Turks and local Arabian chieftains, before the British East India Company seized the territory surrounding Aden in 1839. British influence grew to include the surrounding sultanates, which were joined to form the Protectorate of South Arabia.After years of terrorist activity, the British pulled out in 1967, and the National Liberation Front (NLF) set up a Communist government, combining the Protectorate and Aden to form South Yemen. Tribal fighting was to continue, as did conflicts within the government.In 1969, President Qahtan al-Shaabi was forced to resign because of his dictatorial rule. The same year South Yemen cut all diplomatic relations with the U.S., a condition which still prevails. After al-Shaabi, rifts between the moderates and extremists in both the ar my and the NLF led to a number of coups.In 1971, Robaye Ali (a moderate) became President. Ali's Presidency lasted seven years, until 1978, when he was overthrown and executed. This coup was led by the extremists Abdul Fattah Ismail and Ali Nasser Mohammed Hassani.
TARTAN Business News 
Write Now!
Fifth Aiken Apartments
Ci4nC_ 1C rilfh Av/o ChorlwciH5405-15 Fifth Ave., Shadyside
 I t
??????????????????? 5 Coupon 
* $1.00 oft Dinner *
* *
J Expires Feb. 10, 1986 }
? Hr 'k'k'k'k'k---------------------------------------------------
Make your next apartment home at the very best 
location in Shadyside. The Fifth Aiken Apartments 
are located at the corner of Fifth Avenue and 
South Aiken Avenue one block from Walnut 
Street and Shadyside shopping. Our newly 
decorated modern efficiency, one bedroom and 
two bedroom apartments have all utilities paid 
(except electric in two bedroom units). Excellent 
security featuring Bell Telephone intercom 
systems. New Maytag washers and dryers are 
located in the building for your convenience. 
Private off street parking and garages are 
available. Many apartments have large stone 
balconies. A private screened sun bathing area is 
available. Special fire proof and sound proof 
construction as well as smoke and fire alarms 
add to your safety and convenience. Your 
resident manager lives on the premises. Enjoy 
our great new landscape featuring native trees, 
shrubs and flowers that will brighten your day 
and impress your guests. Public transportation is 
right at the door. Welcome to Shadyside living at 
its best!
Efficiency................................................$319 to $329
1-bedroo m.......................................... 379 to 409
2-bedroo m.......................................... 449 to 509
r*
.>
m!
m *
i
V ^ "
_J._ t
pjL
Utilities: Efficiency and all one bedrooms included two 
bedrooms'with and without electricity.
Rental Terms: One month plus $100 security deposit; one 
year minimum lease; no children or pets allowed 
Public Transportation: At door; corner of Fifth and Aiken; 
Fifth Ave Buses
Directions: Fifth Avenue to Comer of South Aiken
Rental Agent: Concept Development Corporation 
5405 Fifth Ave 
Pittsburgh, PA 15232 
(412) 441-4444

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanJanuary 28, 1986
Andrew System Runs on IBM RT PC Workstation
continued from page 1
CMU and IBM is that IBM might develop 
and market a product based on Andrew. If 
IBM makes such a decision, Andrew will be 
widely available. In the meantine, CMU has 
been distributing Andrew to universities 
under a license agreement. More than 30 
universities received Andrew in 1985. The 
ITC is considering a list of candidates for 
deploying Andrew, including MIT, Brown 
University, University of Wisconsin, Univer
sity of Michigan and the University of 
Southern California at Berkely.
Andrew is now at a stage where 
widespread use on our own campus network 
and formal experimentation and evaluation 
at other leading universities are feasible, 
said James Morris, director of the ITC. We 
are eagerly looking forward to feedback 
from our own community and the other 
universities which will help us further refine 
Andrew.
John P. Crecine, Senior Vice President of 
Academic Affairs at CMU and a nationally 
recognized leader in educational computing, 
said, IBMs contributions to CMU are 
praiseworthy not only for what they have 
made possible here but also for their impact 
on educational computing around the coun
try. The key to the evolution of educational 
computing in this country is making 
educational software portable from one cam
pus to another. IBM has made that por
tability possible through development of An
drew.
Andrew is a major part of CMUs in
tegrated Personal Computing Project. The 
project, expected to be well established by 
the autumn of 1987, aims to make power
ful personal computers available to everyone 
on campus, and link these computers 
together in a network that will permit com
munication between computers and access 
to centrally shared data. Our goal is that 
any person who can type should be able to 
use personal computers wired together, said 
Morris.
The project is designed to accommodate 
almost all of the many types and brands of 
computers already in use at CMU. But one 
type of computer, the advanced function 
Workstation, will be the first choice for 
general academic use because of its power 
and capacity for program flexibility. A 
Workstation is a very powerful personal com
puter that can show nearly two pages of text 
at the same time, transfer large volumes of 
data almost instantaneously and run full 
programming languages--all at once. Most 
personal computers do not do any of these 
things as well as most users would like, let 
alone simultaneously.
Andrew is the program that the person us
ing the Workstation uses to create teaching 
and research programs. Currently, Andrew 
is compatible with the Sun Microsystems 
Workstation, the Microvax Digital Equip
ment Corporation Workstation and the IBM 
RT PC Workstation. The RT PC is a 
workstation-type personal computer that was 
introduced by IBM also on January 21.
IBMs role is to help identify, devise and 
provide the hardware and software ap
propriate for educational and research ap
plications. This is a fairly significant product 
announcement, said Mr. Edward E. 
Lucente, President of IBMs Information 
Products Division and a member of CMUs 
Board of Trustees. The IBM RT PC system 
provides suitable hardware for Andrew. The 
increased computing horsepower for multi
user workstations is targeted at academics, 
engineering science, computer aided design 
and computer aided mechanic applications.
The Workstations currently cost CMU 
between $8,000 and $12,500. Frankly, we 
do not advise students to buy them at that 
price. The price will be going down, com
mented Morris. We hope that a version of 
the workstation will be available so that 
students who are attending the Fall semester 
of 1987 will be able to purchase a Worksta
tion for in the neighborhood of $3,000 and 
$5000, said Cyert. Its a pretty big task, 
but we feel that IBM is up to it.
Andrews software units include a network 
file system, called Vice, used for central data 
storage. Vice is Andrews most distinuishing 
technical feature, for most other universities 
group their personal computers in small in
dependent networks or link them to central 
time-shared computers. The Vice software 
system may be a model for office systems. 
Its capacity for centrally managing informa
tion despite distances between computers 
might make it an efficient addition to a large 
corporation. A Workstation can access the 
file system anywhere in the network through 
software called Virtue.
Users can divide the screen into several 
windows which can be manipulated and 
edited separately and which can run dif
ferent independent or dependent programs 
simultaneously. A user interface makes it 
easy for a Workstation user to execute com
plex computer commands. Andrew is built 
upon Berkely Software distribution 4.2, a 
version of UNIX which is considered 
especially well suited to research-oriented 
computing. (UNIX is a trademark of AT&T.) 
Using Andrew, a Workstation user can com
municate with 10,000 other Workstation 
users. The University has decided to use IBM 
wiring for the campus network.
Andrew, UNIX, the file system, Worksta
tion and network are designed to work close
ly together but they can be used separately.
Computers are used widely at universities, 
mainly to relieve the drudgery of document 
preparation, computation, information 
storage and retrieval and diagram prepara
tion. The philosophy behind the Andrew 
project is that creative new uses of com
puting for teaching and research will appear 
if faculty and students use the workstations.
Andrew and the Workstation is designed 
to be a prefessional tool through its problem 
solving capabilities, provide computer-aided 
instruction through graphics, communica
tion through mail and bulletin boards, and 
provide access to information through a 
library and data base management, Mor
ris said. Tomorrows CMU professional 
graduate will bring knowledge of an educa
tional tool along with him (and her) self.
The challenge of integrating Andrew in
to the CMU community rests primarily upon 
CMUs Center for the Design of Educational 
Computing (CDEC) and Computer User 
Services. Until last Tuesday Andrew and the 
IBM RT PC were secret. We couldnt do any 
advance preparation!, said Chris Thyberg, 
Senior Consultant for User Services. We are 
throwing a lot of energy and effort into put
ting things together.
Two clusters with a total of 23 IBM RT 
PCs and Andrew software were opened on 
Wean Halls fifth floor and in Hammershlag 
Hall. The cluster hours are Monday through 
Friday, 8 a.m.-midnight; Saturday, noon6 
p.m.; and Sunday, noon-midnight. An An
drew tutorial program is being designed. 
Clusters will be staffed with student con
sultants. The lack of staffing is preventing 
increased cluster hours. Interested students 
should see a User Consultant for applica
tions, Thyberg said. Andrew Account forms 
are available at the UCC. Any member of 
the campus community, from researchers 
and teachers to workshop members and the 
mildly curious are welcome to an account.
CDEC plans to sponsor joint course ' 
teams, through which it will share with 
faculty members the task of developing 
educational software for selected courses. 
CMU-Tutor is a computer language 
developed by CDEC that sits on top of the 
Andrew Software and makes it dramatical
ly easier for non-experts to write educational 
software. Bruce Sherwood, the Associate 
Director of CDEC and a Physics Professor 
who uses Andrew applications he designed 
for class, has been working with selected 
faculty and researchers for around 50 weeks ^ 
to develop educational software using CMUTutor. The new Workstations have the 
power to make programming easy. The per
sonal computers dont, he said.
If students have not already used Andrew 
in their classes, they should be hearing about 
it and possibly using it soon in upper level 
undergraduate courses. Professors can give 
guidance about what students should learn 
about the Andrew system, depending upon 
each students interests.
Scholarships of $1,250 per semester were 
awarded to 16 CMU students through CDEC 
for designing software. The students were 
selected from all colleges and levels based 
upon their creative ideas for applying An
drew in academics. I will be meeting with 
each of the selected students to talk about 
their projects, said Carol Sheftic, coor
dinator for the scholarships. There is a good 
possibility that their programming plans will 
include Andrew, but it is up to them.
The success of Andrew in encouraging 
and enhancing learning at CMU depends 
upon faculty and student initiatives to use 
current Andrew applications and develop 
new teaching and research tools. From the 
point of view of an undergraduate today* 
Andrew and the Workstation is not going to 
start a revolution in educational computing. 
But in ten years, when a person looks back, 
it will look like a big change! said Morris.
"Carnegie Salutes Carnegie"
By VIJAY REDDY
Tartan News Editor
Carnegie Mellon has rented the Civic 
Arena for a free Spring Carnival show call
ed Carnegie salutes Carnegie. The April 
19th show will commemorate Andrew 
Carnegies 150th birthday, the universitys
Dr. Martin Luther King
continued from page 1
either. We are very tight on time and I'd 
rather that the students have the day off at 
the end of the semester, when they need it 
most.' He also added that despite the peti 
tion. he did not see a university holiday in 
the future to honor Dr. King.
Cyert went on to say that he saw nothing 
wrong with the students staging a spon 
taneous demonstration. Last year he met 
with the Minority Students Advisory Coun 
cil and the Black Graduate Student 
Organization and decided that a conference 
be held in honor of Dr. King.
Shiela Ards. President of the Black 
Graduate Student Organization, said that 
President Cyert agreed to delegate funds for 
such a conference.
The conference, entitled "Race and Public 
Policy was scheduled for last Saturday.
January 25th.
Cyert said that he thought students would 
prefer something well planned and in-depth 
to honor Dr. King.
The conference was to start at 9:00 a.m. 
and last through the day until 7:00 p.m. 
Scheduled speakers included the executive 
director of the Pittsburgh NAACP. the ex
ecutive director of the National Association 
for Equal Opportunity in Higher Education, 
and professors from the University of Pitt 
sburgh. the University of Wisconsin, and the 
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
Austin who is a member of the Minority 
Students Advisory Council said that she was 
aware of the scheduled conference in honor 
of Dr. King but said that students held the 
protest because, we wanted to do something 
in observance of his birthday on the day the 
i ounrry set aside lvhouoi -him. .________
85th birthday and the start of Carnegie 
Mellons Capital Campaign.
Every famous alumni from stage and 
screen is being asked to come and perform. 
We are going to get more stars back here 
than in any time in your lifetime, said Keith 
Moore, Vice President of University Rela
tions. I dont think the University has ever 
done anything like this.
The Master of Ceremonies will be Andy 
Williams. He will introduced Comedian 
Jerry Lewis and Pianist Earl Wild among 
others. The music will include a sixty-piece 
orchestra, the Jazz Band, the Jazz Choir, the 
Macdonald Pipe Band and the Kiltie Band.
CA&T
continued from page 2
tion for Dire Straits Money for Nothing 
video, have begun work on centers. Carnegie 
Mellons CA&T has a broader basis that em
phasizes on putting developments into the 
^ .lands of people who can use them. Akram 
Midani, Dean of CFA, says, The Center was 
established to develop new art forms and 
new forms of technology. Some of the work 
being done here may revolutionize the way 
we teach artistic concepts.
For more information on the Center, con
tact director Phil Miller or call X3454.
The show should be like Mardi Gras and 
not like a formal concert, said Producer 
Bob Finkel. Students will impersonate An
drew Carnegie and Margaret Morrison while 
eight celebrities will talk about Carnegie 
Mellons past, present and future.
The celebrities will be on campus and 
will be seen by the students, emphasized 
Jackie Granger, Spring Carnival Chairper
son. It is not like we are flying them in to 
do the show, they stay backstage and they 
fly out again. They will be at opening and 
closing ceremonies and will be just walking 
the midway.
The cost of the show will be defrayed by 
corporate sponsors who will buy one of the 
seventy tables that will be at the foot of the 
stage. The tables will cost $2500 each. There 
will also be thirty tables set up for dignitaries 
such as the mayor and the governor. An 
alumni can buy a seat at one of these tables 
for S250.
The show will start at 8:30 at night and 
will last for two hours. The free tickets will 
get students in the door, seating will be first 
come, first seated. The show will end with 
the roof of the Civic Arena being opened, 
fireworks and confetti. Buses will be 
available for the students. Moore said, 
dont want to have any impediment keeping 
people from thiv fvenu J J_!.L.

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 1986The TartanPage 5
Alumni Donations
By AMER YAQUB
Tartan Staff writer
With over 44,000 alumni scattered all 
over the country, Carnegie-Mellon Univer
sity's alumni office has had difficulty over 
the years soliciting support from all their 
alumni. Faced with this enormous challenge, 
the alumni office has contracted two 
telemarketing firms this year to assist them 
in reaching the 15,000 CMU alumni who 
have never given money and the 6,000 CMU 
alumni who have given occasionally.
Carnegie Mellon presently receives sup
port from about 27% of its alumni which 
is 5% better than the national average for 
all colleges and universities in the United 
States. Kevin Garvey, director of alumni giv
ing, hopes to increase this number to 35% 
by next year.
Last year, 10,613 alumni gave almost SI.7 
million dollars, setting a new high in alumni 
donations. Though these figures do not
compare with the strength of alumni dona
tions at such schools as Princeton or LeHigh. 
Garvey emphasizes, Carnegie-Mellon is a 
young university and it needs more time to 
establish itself' before it can compare its 
alumni programs with long established 
alumni networks at places like Harvard or 
Amherst.
The atmosphere at Carnegie-Mellon also 
does not foster the same close-knit alumni 
spirit that smaller, more isolated schools 
have. In addition, the rigorous pre
professional orientation sometimes leaves the 
alumni with an ambivalent attitude toward 
their alma mater. However, the success of 
this years student phoneathon and the crea
tion of an alumni awareness program 
might help change these kinds of attitudes. 
Kevin Garvey remains optimistic that the 
Carnegie-Mellon alumni program will grow 
in size as well as in scope.
Morewood Fire
By CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Staffwriter
Its not an uncommon occurrence for the 
Morewood Gardens fire alarm to be pulled 
in the middle of the night. However, last 
Wednesday at 1:57 a.m, a prankster was not 
the culprit.
A small trash can fire outside of Room 
l-D-8 caused police and fire departments to 
respond in the early morning hours.
Even though the call was not a false 
alarm, residents were still unhappy at be
ing awakened from their sleep to stand out
side in the cold.
No one was injured as a direct result of 
the fire. However, one girl who had been 
feeling ill earlier in the evening was taken 
to Presbyterian-University Hospital.
The fire chief determined the cause of the 
small fire to be a discarded cigarette.
_Minutes of the Student Senate, January 21, 1986
p Meeting called to order 7:05.Present; Appelbaum, Ayre. Bollinger. Cohen Flynn, Greenberg A., Greenberg M., Jagerski, Kaplan Korn btek, Lee, Lomky, McDonnell. Mukhcrjee, Murphy, Noesen, Novak, Patnaik. Rocher. Solomon, Taylor, Tram pel, Welsh, Whysel, Lee K., Dean Walter, DeLeon, Chu.Absent: Giles (excused), Hynes. PlanehetteL Sheinfeld, Dean Cox (excused).* udience Participation: none.President: There is a Tiunger Project' in which students perform a service and get sponsored lor this service {i.e. painting a house). Is anyone interested?The MS drive is gaining momentum. Are there any persons that would like to get involved in raising money for MS?SBC: Two newly acquired microwaves will be placed, one each, in Morewood Gardens and Donner basement.Housing rates will go up an average of 4.0% to 4.5%, with 601 Clyde St rates increasing by W, and Tudor, Carol, Shirley triples and doubles, and Hampshire doubles increasing by Q%.There will be an increase in June 15 second housing deposit from S50 to S100. This is designed to decrease the number of no shows' in the housing system.Because of zoning laws, there will no longer be any quads on Clyde St.Any person moving to a fraternity or sorority will lose his housing deposit of S200 if he doesn't notify housing by Aug. 1.Any person whos personal possessions were destroyed, stolen, or soiled as a result of the wiring that was done on the Hill during vacation, please contact Housing.if there are any problems with the new phone system {i.e. bad reception), contact Housing.IFC: IFC is deciding which fraternity it will support in acquiring the vacant frat house.IFC elections are coming up.Chairman: Eric Rocher thanked all who helped in making the Senate retreat a success.Treasurer: Fred DeLeon has drafted a letter to organizations that have violated the W rule.Academic Affairs: Academic Affairs is investigating a possible new program for CMU. Its called the Federated Learning Communities and it is an integrated one-year program based on a unifying theme (i.e. America in Transition, Human Nature, Issues in International Understanding). It is comprised of three regular departmen tal courses connected by theme, a core course taught by federated professors, and a program seminar led by Master Learner.Forty motivated students and the Master Learner will by taught by six federated faculty. The Master learner will then attempt to bring together the theme by guiding the program seminar. Do you think this is a worthwhile program? Any Comments, contact Academic Affairs or Cindy Taylor.Campus Affairs: Progress has been made on the printing studio in the basement of Doherty Hall. Peter Lonsky reported that the drainage trenches have been deepened, and the ventilation has been improved among other things. A follow up will be done in a month by surveying the students who use the print basement.Jean Novak took care of the lighting problem in back of Skibo.Funding & Recognition: The following groups have been granted funded recognition from Senate: Amiga Users Group, Gay and Lesbian Alliance, Womens Lacrosse Club. The following groups had their budgets passed by Senate: Gay and Lesbian Alliance, Weightlifting and Bodybuilding Club, Womens Lacrosse Club.Public Relations: Joe Murphy asked senators who went on the retreat to fill out a questionnaire for the informa tion of the retreat leader, Terri Hughson.A student handbook designed for new senators is being drafted. It should be finished before the next elections. Meeting Adjourned 8:45.
m
(S)
MonsterMac!
 Up to 2 megs contigous 
memory -1.8meg ramdisk
 25% faster thanFat Mac
 68000 parallel connector
 2 spare EPROM sockets
 120 day warranty
 Levco dealer 
Call 683-6244
ByCAROLC YNL
KAMQUESTSYSTEMS
ih a PerSi
Ha'rdet9nThedifter8nCe 
'u?e*.raor'narV
coupon'*"""'
$4.00 OFF HAIRCUT 
EXPIRES 2-28-86 
Regular $14-16
c c oupn '*"n  tu 
I PWIW Satn  tu 5?? Sun 12 t0 5
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-4063
PREGNANT?
And you didnt mean to be? 
F:or a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
WITH TANDEM
Thursday, February 6, 1986 
4:30 to 6:30 p.m. 
in Skibo Room 12
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS are invited to chew the fat with the company that developed on
line transaction processing systems and eliminated unnecessary computer fat  TANDEM. Our 
fault tolerant system grows as a customers needs grow, doing away with waste and inefficiency.
At Tandem, we run our company in much the same way. We grow as our needs grow  no more, no 
less. So youll find you are never on the fringes or part of the manpower flab. More opportunity, 
more challenge, and more rewards for all of us.
Lets Chew the Fat.
Come see what Tandem is all about. Over refreshments youll meet informally with Tandem 
employees and discuss professional opportunities in your field.
On-campus interviews will be held on 
Friday, February 7.
If you are interested in Tandem but unable to meet with us on campus, please send your resume to P. 
Conroy, Tandem Computers, Inc., 10300 N. Tantau Ave., Cupertino, CA 95014. We are an equal 
opportunity employer.
JXig TANDEMCOMPUTERS
w Known for the Company We Keep

---------------------------------------------------

WANTED
Student Performers 
for 
Spring Carnival 
Entertainment
Pick up Applications 
at Skibo Information Desk
CMU
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
Zuckerboards !
1/2 board memory expansion
$63.00
Card allows expansion of your personal 
computer system to its capacity of 640k. 
Uses 64k or 256k chips!
Fits in Short Slot of XT or Portable! 
Two Year Warranty!
Zuckerboard64k
256k (256k chips)
$63.00
14.0032.00
Bad
Week?
Dont take it out on your 
honey! Relax with a few 
close friends on THE 
HORROR OF IT ALL. Its 
more fun than a barrel of 
monkeys. And no messy 
clean-up!
Friday, February 7 at 9WQEDI3TV Worth Watching
Ad space donated by The Tartan.
[Announcing;
By
)
presents :
Computer Applications Courses
IBM
LotUS 1-2-3 (New Version)
where : UCG PC cluster
when : February 8, 15, 22
March 1 
2:00 - 3:00 p.m.
Epsilon / Scribble
where : UCC PC cluster 
when : February 9,16, 23
March 2 
2:00 - 3:00 p.m.
Macintosh :
Microsoft Multiplan
where : Morewood PC cluster 
when : February 8,15, 22
March 1 
4:00 - 5:00 p.m.
Microsoft Chart
where : Morewood PC cluster 
when : February 9, 16, 23
March 2 
4:00 - 5:00 p.m.ra
Student
noroiitory
Council
Courses are in the testing phase, and are thus free and open to all C-MU students 
Sign up at the Skibo information Desk - class size is limited, so sign up early 
Brought to you by your Student Dormitory Council.

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Searching for a man? Read on
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features EditorVVhat do you call a pictorial calendar sporting a handful of CMUs best-looking 
male students? VVhat else Carnegie-Men.This October two junior design majors. 
LauraCiarallo and Stephanie George, decid
ed to cash in on the profitable idea of fcreating such a calendar. They had seen other college calendars and realized that 
with their design and photographic 
backgrounds, they could produce a similar, if not better calendar geared to the CMU au
dience. They originally thought of putting together this type of calendar as early as freshman year, however, with their limited 
funds they had no way to bring their project to fruition. Thats where the Student Corporation came in; when the girls found 
i^out about the existence of a corporation set 'up to back students entrepreneurial ven
tures. they got excited about their project and set the wheels in motion.The first step in putting together the calendar was to choose the men to be 
photographed. Laura and Stephanie adver
tised a photo contest by plastering posters 
of bare chested males at highly visible locations around campus.
As the advertisements were ambiguous.r
people didn't know whether or not to take the contest seriously or as a joke. Never
theless, "men" of all sizes and types handed in pictures of themselves some professional 
8x10 glossy shots, others half-nude polaroid shots. Although the pictures trickled in at the beginning of the contest,. there was a 
flood of over 120 entries on the last day before judgement.
After weeding out the submissions, the 
girls narrowed down their selections and 
made call-backs.
At the interview session over 60 potential 
Carnegie-Men" explained their reasons for 
wanting to be included in the calendar. Ac
cording to Laura some were really nervous 
while others still took it as a complete joke. 
She said, "From our advertisement, people 
'saw guys without shirts on and thought it was 
like Chippendales. However, both Laura 
and Stephanie stressed that the calendar was 
created to be campus-oriented, focusing on 
campus life rather than on mens bodies per
se. Stephanie added, Theres only one guy 
in the calendar who has a bare chest and 
that's because hes in the pool."
Over 18 "men" where photographed for 
the calendar. And in order to get quality pic
tures, there were over seventy shots taken of 
each guy. All of the pharos were taken on 
or close to campus, and some facet of CMU
life is illustrated in the background. For ex
ample, the cover shot (above) shows Mike 
Rutowski in front of Hammerschlag Hall. . .
The calendar is composed of a diversity 
of male types, aimed to a wide group; it 
will be on sale in Baker Hall today. The price 
is S9.95.
Continental delights
Pasta Piatto for Italian cuisine
By MARGARET HALTER
Tartan Staffwriter
As a college student operating on a 
imited budget, Ive come to expect only 
good food at mode lately-priced restaurants.
I he superb and the excellent I anticipate on the rare occasions that I venture to 
Mount Washington and spend S50 in a 
single evening. Last week my expectations 
were shattered by a small Italian restaurant 
in Shadyside. Pasta Piatto (translated the 
Pasta Patio) located at 5533 1/2 Walnut 
treet features Northern Italian cuisine, 
oderate prices, and excellent food.
Pasta Piattos dining room, which seats aproximately 80 people is divided into an up
per and lower section; a stucco wall with 3 ar
ches cut from it separate the 2 dining sec
tions. A large potted plant occupies each of 
the 3 arches. The overall decor is simple, 
resembling an Italian patio. A large 
photograph of St. Peters Square covers the 
Pack wall of the upper section of the dining 
oom.
The menu at Pasta Piatto requires much 
Mention; the pasta alone falls into five 
^parate categories. Appetizers range in
rice from $3.95 for pasta to 7.95 for a 
anety of seafood dishes such as mussels and 
hrimp. Pasta Piatto offers a variety of salads 
ncluding Antipasto, Caesar Salad, Chefs 
alad, an(j spinach salad; the average prices $5.95.
Entrees include homemade pasta 
spaghetti, linguini, ravioli, fettuccine. and 
t(,l!ini), a variety of chicken, veal, beef, 
ll(l seafood dishes, and traditional Italian
dishes such as lasagna and eggplant 
parmesan. Entree prices range from $6.95 
for spaghetti with meat sauce to $15.95 for 
fillet of sole, shrimp, and scallops sauteed 
in butter and garlic.
After a lengthy deliberation I decided on 
Mussels Marinara served over fettuccine, my 
companion selected tortellini served with 
tomato and cream sauce. A friendly waitress 
took our order; house salad and a half loaf 
of fresh baked Italian bread arrived shortly 
afterwards. The salad was a delightful mix 
of crisp iceberg lettuce, vine-ripened 
tomatoes, a hot green pepper, a healthy 
smattering of green and black olives topped 
with ground parsley, grated parmesan cheese 
and fresh ground black pepper. (Crumbled 
Italian blue cheese topping is also available.)
Our entrees arrived as soon as we finish
ed our salads. The Mussels Marinara arriv
ed in a huge silver bowl. No less than 15 
mussels covered with a wonderfully spicy 
tomato sauce and grated parmesan cheese 
hid the enormous portion of fettuccine. The 
mussels absorbed the full taste of the garlic 
and melted in my mouth. (So often mussels 
and clams are overcooked and chewy.) The 
long flat fettuccine noodles were well 
prepared -firm, not sticky.
The tortellini had another taste entirely. 
In contrast to the spicy mussels and fettuc
cine the tortellini was light and sweet. 
Tortellini pasta consists of small rings of thin 
pasta filled with parmesan cheese. The 
tomato and cream sauce, sweet with only a 
hint of garlic lightly covered the pasta.
The leisurely meal was topped off by selec
tions from the dessert menu. The 10 item 
dessert menu ranges in price from $2.00 for 
lemon ice and cookies to $3.75 for cheese 
cake. I chose the chocolate cannoli, my com
panion selected the fresh custard and 
strawberries. The cannoli, consisting of a 
pastry shell filled with a mix of chocolate 
cream and ricotta cheese was extremely 
light. The pastry was not greasy nor was the 
filling sticky sweet. My companions dessert 
was a fantastic creamy custard with a
generous topping of fresh, sliced strawber
ries. The bill, including tea after dinner and 
tip totaled $28.00.
Service at Pasta Piatto is friendly, prompt, 
and unobtrusive (the water goblets were 
always full, yet I never saw the water boy). 
Pasta Piatto does not take reservations but 
does accept most major credit cards. If a 
member of your party is celebrating a bir
thday, with advanced notice the staff will 
provide song, dance and a cake. Metered 
parking is available next to the restaurant.

---------------------------------------------------

Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm
CalculusPH -126A
Pre 1, N. Ml
PhysicsPH - 126B
ChemistryPH-225B
EngMsh as aBH -1358
second language
EconomicsPH-226B
Intro to ComputingWEH-5415
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemsBH - 235B
Spring Carnival
BOOTH 
MEETING 
SCHEDULE
"I
DATE ROOM TIME
JAN 21127pm
FEB 4117pm
FEB 18128pm
MAR 4117pm
MAR 18117pm
APR 1117pm
APR 8457pm
TO ALL NON FUNDED ORGANIZATIONS
All organizations recognized by the Student Senate are requested to
1. Obtain a copy of the Organizational Survey Form from the Skibo 
information Desk.
2. Fill it completely. ... 
3. Return it to the Student Senate funding, and recognition mailbox at the 
Skibo Information Desk, with a copy of the organizations current con
stitution, by February 15, 1986.
Any organization that fails to fill out this form, and return it by the above 
deadline, will have its recognition revoked by the Student Senate.
Any new organization wishing to be recognized as a non-funded organiza
tion should also fill out the survey form.
Please contact the following, if necessary. ;  .
Dave Salomon 421-5546 Tamal Mukherjee 268-4552
Funded by the Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 1986The TartanPage 9
Adventures in taste
Ali Baba's Middle Eastern food
By VIJAY REDDY
Tartan News Editor
The sweet seductive smell of seasonings 
and spices surrounds you at the door. 
Welcomed with a pleasant smile, you are 
quickly shown to your table. The decor is a 
strange but comfortable mix of Middle 
Eastern art and American functionalism. 
Over your clean table is one of the seven 
skylights which gives the restaurant an am
biance of airiness and affability. This at
mosphere is accented by hanging potted 
plants and dim overhead lights.
After drooling through a menu of 31 
dishes, each followed by an informative 
description, you make a decision. Tempted 
by the though of tender chunks of the finest 
lamb meat, barbecued to your taste, and 
served with a large dish of crisp salad, rice 
with pignolia nuts, and a choice of any soft 
drink and a dessert for just $8.50, you order 
a Shish Kebab. Your friend, beguiled by an 
extremely delicious and filling meal of 
tender lamb shank roasted in [a] specially 
prepared sauce, served with rice and 
pignolia nuts for a mere $6.95, orders a 
Lamb Shank. Almost immediately you 
discover one of Ali Babas pleasant surprises; 
a congenial waitress brings the soft drinks, 
salad, and pita bread to your table before 
you can even start a dinner conversation.
Unfortunately a sixty cent Coke is the 
strongest drink you can get here. The 
restaurant doesnt have a liquor licensee, but 
the owners are willing to look the other way 
if you brown-bag it. In fact their Maza dish, 
a tray of five assorted foods, is specially 
designed for those drinking wine.
You nibble on a piece of Pita bread. Its 
not hot, a tad dry, but fresh. A sip of Coke 
and youre ready for the salad. It is a large 
dish of salad, but all you get is fresh lettuce 
and three eigths of a tomato wallowing in 
a sea of oil and vinegar salad dressing.
Your waitress serves the main course. The 
enticing aroma of spiced lamb tantalizes the 
senses. The Shish Kebab is good, real good. 
You sink your teeth into a piece of lamb and 
savor the superbly seasoned slice of 
barbecued meat. Your friends mouth waters 
in anticipation as his lamb shank just falls 
from the bone. You add the rice. Its cooked 
with browned noodles and topped with 
pignolia nuts and complements the meat 
dish; unfortunately its the cheaper short
gram rice.
The main dishes were simple yet satisfy
ing. After deciding you both have just a bit 
more room, you order: Baklawa, Kanafi, 
and Namora. You order the Baklawa while 
your friend decides upon the Namora. Both 
are bad choices; they have exceptionally 
hard crusts and a center that chews like hard 
caramel. You try to wash yours down with 
some strong, syrupy Arabic Coffee. The 
small cup of coffee is as concentrated as
Espresso but a bit more bitter.
You leave with a feeling of satisfaction. For 
about ten dollars per person you have en
joyed a tasty change of pace in a clean, in
formal restaurant. The service was fast and 
friendly; the lamb was seasoned and savory. 
Next time you will bring a bottle of wine and 
go elsewhere for dessert.
Alt Baba: 404 South Craig Street, Pitt
sburgh, PA, 15213. Phone 682-2829. Open 
for dinner, 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. Master Card 
and Visa accepted.
There's
psychology major is now a hospital 
administrator.
A social science major is an epidemiologist (state 
health dept.).
A biochemistry major is an industrial hygienist 
(Meade Corp).
A math major is a hospital radiation health 
officer.
A nursing major is a hospital infection control 
practitioner.
Biology majors are genetic associates, a 
legionella researcher, industrial hygienist (PPG), 
a health physicist (Con Ed).
Theyre all Class of 85University of Pittsburgh 
Graduate School of Public Health.
We specialize in guiding students from aH academic backgrounds into public-health specialties tailored to their interests. For information about how to put your major to work, call Karen Peterson, 412/624-3002. Or write to her at 116 Parran Hall, Pittsburgh, PA 15261.
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH
University of Pittsburgh
Perform Amazing Feats
If you believe you have more talent in your big toe than anybody you've ever met. then direct your feet to the sunny side of the street. Because Busch Garden* that wildly entertaining and exotic attraction in Tampa, Florida, is on the hunt for exceptional talent to join our rare breed of entertainers.
Singers & Dancers
Seeking strong male and female singers who dance we, and feature dancers. Bring dance attire and be prepared to show movement abity. Singers are required to prepare short vocal selections (batad and uptempo) and should bring sheet music in their best key. Accompanist will be provided.
Musicians
Seeking musicians who ptay primary and secondary instruments, as we as. Accor dian. Steel Guitar. Country Fiddle Tuba and Percussion and brass players experienced in dance/marching band style Musicians should prepare two selections which demonstrate their abilities.
AtmosphoroDitortainecs
Seeking experienced performers with background in comedy and improvisation. Bring necessary props and prepare a two-minute comedy piece to demonstrate special abities
To audition you must be 18 years or older. Auditions are held on a first come basis Plan to join us;
JowMory 29, IfM
tlnraii BMkkiiMdk KE r~li -------
112 Washington IHoc*  MtUbmtfl, Pannjytvowto 10:00 A.M. to 9:00 Ml.
NATLI
li
TAM TA FLORIDAEqual Opportunity tmptayw M/RH/V

---------------------------------------------------

Scotland
Now Open Five Days A Week
Wednesday from 4 p.m. to 12 a.m. 
Thursday through Saturday from 4 p.m. to 2 a.m. 
Sunday from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m.
New! Happy Hours
Wednesday through Friday from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m.Soda and Spritzers 2 for l$1.00 Nachos
Interested inPerforming at Scotland Yard?Call X4821
i

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
Louis and Brubeck combine jazz and dance at Heinz Hall
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
The tremendous amount of vastly different forms of art that come out of the 
United States is staggering. However, an even 
more startling fact, is that only two are truly American by birthrite. Jazz and modern 
dance were originated, cultivated, and perfected here, yet they have rarely been 
combined. Even though both jazz and 
modern dance have basically the same key element, improvisation, it took two of finest performers in each field to make the match 
work.On Saturday, the Dave Brubeck Quartet 
and the Murray Louis Dance Company will grace the stage at Heinz Hall at 8 p.m. This unique collaboration brings together the excitement of two living legends of jazz and 
modern dance. With dance steps intertwined inescapably with Brubeks music, the pro
gram will include a full set of jazz by the 
onstage quartet, and an exhilarating finale 
in which the Louis dancers are unleashed to ^tart and dart to the live music of Four 
Brubeck Pieces, including Mr. Brubecks 
signature piece, Take Five.
MURRAY LOUIS DANCE COMPANY
Murray Louis, renowned throughout the 
world as a choreographer and virtuoso performer, began his professional career in 1949 as the principle dancer with the Playhouse 
Dance Company. As the lead soloist in the Nikolais Dance Theatre until 1969 and as 
the Associate Director of the Henry Street 
Playhouse, assisting Alwin Nikolais, Louis payed a major role in the evolution of the 
Nikolais/Louis Technique.Formed by Mr. Louis in 1953, the Murray 
Louis Dance Company has been touring the 
United States since the late 1950s, and in
ternationally since 1968. With 80 choreographed works to his name, Murray Louis along with his company have become 
one of the foremost performers in modern 
dance today.In 1978, the Murray Louis Dance Com
pany was invited to appear at the 16th International Festival of Dance at the Theatre 
Champ-Elysees, at which time Rudolf Nureyev appeared opposite Louis as guest 
artist with the company. The performance was a complete success. Not only did the com
pany receive rave reviews, but also Louis and 
Nureyev were hailed as the greatest virtuosos of the contemporary and classical genres.Through grants from the National Endowment for the Arts, Louis has choreographed, among others, Proximities
and Intersection (1969), Continuum (1970), 
Index (1973), Porcelain Dialogues and 
Geometries (1974), and The Canarsie Venus (1978). For the Brubeck collaboration, Louis 
composed two pieces, Glances (1976), and 
Four Brubeck Pieces (1984) which will be 
performed at the concert.
THE DAVE BRUBECK QUARTET
Ever since Dave Brubeck bust onto the na
tional music scene almost fourty years ago, he has been known for his unorthodox time 
signatures and daring harmonic experimen
tation. At the age of 66, Brubeck shows little signs of letting his unique sound die out (in fact he had over 100 performances in the past year).
Known for his exploration in new avenues 
for jazz, Brubeck was one of the first jazz artists to improvise with a symphony orchestra, 
and he pioneered the college concert circuit. The Dave Brubeck Quartet, which featured the fluffy tone of alto saxophone great Paul 
Desmond, was the first jazz group to perform 
at an official function at The White House. Dave Brubeck has since been invited to perform before five different presidents. Final
ly, Brubeck's classic album Time Out sold over a million copies and became the first 
platinum album for modern jazz.The present version of the Quartet includes Randy Jones, drums; Chris Brubeck (Daves son) on bass; and Bill Smith, an original member of the 1947 Dave Brubeck 
Octet, on clarinet.
THE PERFORMANCE
Successful collaborations are rare events, comments Margeaux Singleton, Pittsburgh 
Dance Council's (the sponsors of the performance) Executive Director. But these two artists seem made for each other. Both Louis and Brubeck are impeccable artists who 
share the same precision, balance, and energy. The spunky choreography by Mur
ray Louis and his dancers seems to match exactly the snappy drive of Brubecks jazz.
Tickets for the Louis/Brubeck program are 
available now through the Heinz Hall Box 
Office Monday through Friday, 10 a. m. 6 
p.m. Saturday 12 noon6 p.m., Saturday
12 noon6p.m., by calling Ticket Charge 
at 392-4900, or the PDC office at 353-0330 
(8 a.m.6 p.m. weekdays).
Promotional material supplied by Pitt
sburgh Dance Council.
Tom Topor's Courtroom Drama Nuts at City Theatre
By JOE FERRUGIA '
Tartan Staffwriter
Tom Topors play Nuts opened January 16 at the City Theatre in Oakland. Its a play 
filled with humor and pathos and makes a 
statement about the rights of the individual and society.
The scene is familiar enough: a drab 
courtroom, judge presiding, two attorneys, 
the stenographer and court guard, the 
defendant. This is where the similarities bet
ween most courtroom dramas and Nuts 
ends. Nuts concerns the trial of Claudia 
Faith Draper a woman accused of 
manslaughter. This trial, however, is not to 
determine Ms. Drapers guilt or innocence. 
Nuts is about a sanity hearing to determine 
if Ms. Draper is mentally competent to stand 
trial. Her parents genuinely believe that 
their daughter needs help and want to spare 
her the embarrassment of a public trial. A 
psychiatrist at Belview, a hospital in New 
York, after examining Ms. Draper, has 
classified her as paranoid schizophrenic. He 
too believes that Ms. Draper can best be 
helped under medical supervision in the 
hospital. Together with the district attorneys 
office, these caring people are trying to put 
Ms. Draper away. On the other side of this 
case is the defendant, Claudia.
Clad only in her hospital bathrobe, 
Claudia must fight for her right to stand 
tnal; for her right to sanity. Unfortunately 
for Claudia, she seems to be the best 
evidence for the prosecution. Prancing 
around the courtroom, making odd gestures 
to all concerned and spewing forth accusa
tions of a possible conspiracy, Claudia hardly 
assists in her own defense. Fortunately for 
Claudia, her defense attorney is not as naive 
as he looks - but it is still an uphill battle.
Claudia refuses any further medical ex
amination which might help in her defense.
Nuts is a play full of contrasts. The mood 
moves from darkness to light, from hope to 
despair, from defeat to triumph in less time 
than it takes a judges gavel to sound 
Through testimonies given at the hearing, 
the audience is given a glimpse into the life 
and personality of Claudia. Fond 
reminiscences by Claudias parents add 
warmth and beauty to this play. But the past 
holds more than just fond memories for 
Claudia. Testimonies reveal that Claudia was 
molested as a child and that her mother may 
have even allowed it to occur. Further 
testimony reveals that Claudia has been, 
since separating from her husband, a pro
stitute. The story travels into the darkness 
of Claudias past and adds to the tension of 
the drama.
Contrasts are not strictly limited to the 
mood of this play. The characters are allow
ed to explore a wide range of emotions 
before the play reaches its conclusion. The 
scene of the fathers testimony starts off in
nocently then swells to a climax marked by 
tension and desperation. The actors are real
ly allowed to explore the heights and depths 
of their characters, particularly with the 
parts of Claudia, her mother and her father. 
The audience really gets to see the past and 
the present of these characters come to life 
in the courtroom. It is wonderful to behold. 
Nann Mogg plays Claudias mother with an 
underlying sense of love and devotion that 
is totally credible. She is a pleasure to watch. 
Bingo OMally is equally good as Claudias 
father. Helena Ruoti absolutely blows the 
audience away as Claudia. She plays Claudia 
with energy and style and allows that 
characters desperation to come through
brilliantly. I last saw her perform in The 
Real Thing at Pittsburgh Public Theater 
and her performance just gets better and 
better. Whether you believe that Claudia is 
certifiable or just a helpless soul who doesnt 
quite fit to everybodys expectations of her, 
you are always made to like her. Ms. Ruoti 
is a definite success in the role. J^mes Bond 
and William Cameron are both excellent as 
the attorneys and Ben Tatar is perfectly 
pompous as the psychiatrist.
Nuts is a play that explores the fi*e 
balance that exists between the rights of the 
individual and the rights of society. Can 
society dictate norms and expectations of aft 
its members? Is it right to judge alt members 
on the basis of these expectations? Nuts 
doesnt offer all the answers but rather allows 
the audience to judge for themselves. As the 
author points out Nuts is not a play about 
mental illness but rather it is about pro
blems and the ability to handle those pro
blems.
Everything works for this play. The 
theatre is small enough to make the au
dience feel as though they were in the gallery 
of a real courtroom. The audience sits on 
three sides of the courtroom. There is no real 
stage except for the courtroom furniture. 
This serves the story well. The audience is 
not watching a play about a trial but ap
pears to be watching the trial itself. It serves 
to add to an already wonderful play. Nuts 
runs through February 16 at the City 
Theatre in Oakland. You would be crazy to 
miss Nuts.
Nuts, by Tom Topor. Courtroom melodrama put 
on by City Theatre Company, South Bouquet & 
Sennott in Oakland. Showtime* are Thursday, 
Friday, & Saturday at 8 pm and Sundays 2 pm 
and 7 pm through Feb. 16. For ticket inform
ation, call 624- 4101.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanJanuary 28, 1986
________..........................C, , *
Concert of the month:Guitar WizardsJimmie and Stevie Ray Vaughan at the Syria Mosque
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
Electrifying. Thats the best way to 
describe what happened at the Syria Mos
que on Friday. Jimmie Vaughan and his 
brother Stevie Ray came to the Syria Mos
que and brought with them a few six-strings 
and left the audience spellbound. These real 
life blues brothers are so hot that they make 
the SNL Blues Brothers (Dan Akroyd and 
John Belushi) look like like distant cousins.
Jimmie Vaughan and his group the 
Fabulous Thunderbirds opened the show 
with a thunderous bang. With all their guns
a-blazin, the Thunderbirds belted out their 
own brand of Texas-style retro-rock. With 
Jimmie as the groups centerpiece, the Mos
que was filled with lightening quick guitar 
licks laced with soulful lyrics by lead singer, 
Kim Wilson.
Jimmie Vaughan can make his guitar 
walk, strut and squawk like a chicken flee
ing a fox. One moment he is staggering his 
notes, the next he is in fluid, rapid-fire mo
tion. No matter what the style, he performs 
with an intensity that squeezes every heart
felt nuance from his instrument.
The songs were all vintage 50s style
There are still vacant 
seats on the 
Student Senate
l Seat in IM
Petitions available Jan 28-Feb 10 at 
the Skibo info desk
rythmn and blues, and were played loud and 
at a blistering pace. Ballad or solo in
strumental, Vaughans brisk pace never 
seemed to let up. Even though Vaughan is 
a fantastic musician, he was somehow over
shadowed by the phenominal harmonica 
playing of Wilson. I have yet to figure out 
how he could make the sounds he did. In 
their Final encore, Wayne Shullers The 
Crawl, both Vaughan and Wilson ripped 
out fantastic solos along with fine back up 
from bassist Keith Ferguson and drummer 
Fran Christina.
Although the Thunderbirds were more 
than enough entertertainment needed for a 
great show, the best was yet to come. Stevie 
Ray Vaughan entered the spotlight and let 
his 59 Stratocaster do all the talking. 
Although his long hair and ruffled clothes 
are quite a contrast from his older brothers 
slick image, his guitar philosophy is the 
same play it fast and with loads of 
emotion.
With his trio, Double Trouble (bassist 
Tommy Shannon, drummer Chris Layton, 
and newly added keyboardist Reese 
Wynans), Stevie Ray established that he 
knows only one way to playhot, blistering
ly hot. Starting off with the flashy Scuttle
Buttin; and then rolling right into Say 
What!, Stevie Ray should consider chang
ing his last name to Hendrix.
After the smoke had cleared, Vaughan 
settled his pace down to a crawl as he played 
a blues lick that had his guitar crying out 
in pain as only the best blues players could. 
As he ripped through each song, it became 
obvious that Stevie is in a class by himself. 
The power he conjured up from his guitar 
was tremendous, and just when you thought 
he couldnt top himself, he did.
Vaughans only fault is a voice that is vir
tually unintelligible (he makes Bruce 
Springsteen sound like Pavoratti). It did add 
a little effect towards the slow numbers, but 
for the most part Vaughan kept quiet.
As a final encore, Stevie brought back his 
brother for a duo jam of Love Struck Baby."
In a press conference earlier in the day, 
both Stevie and Jimmie stressed the real 
reason why they play so well it has to come 
from the heart, or else it aint no good.
The sounds that filled the Mosque on Fri
day were in fact, straight from the heart, 
and it just goes to show that with a little 
sweat and soul the results can be truly 
amazing.
... is special. It means being bright, 
innovative, curious and thoughtful, 
eager to turn technical problems into 
solutions. It means a willingness to take 
chances, to expose ideas to testing and 
the challenges of colleagues. People 
who learn by sharing and by teaching
others, who yearn to play with and 
develop ideas, are rare. We have them 
at BBN. Actually, we pay people to play 
and to stretch their genuine intelli
gence. Want to join them?
We are interviewing at CarnegieMellon February 7.
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
10 Moulton Street, Cambridge, MA 02238 
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f/v/h

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 1986The TartanPage 13
improvisational "Drama" presented by the Lemming Project
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Staff writer
What is the state of Improvisation in Pittsburgh? If the Lemming Projects show at the 
Graffiti was any indication, improvisational 
comedy is doing just fine, thanks. Or was 
that improvisational drama? The Lemmings 
themselves arent even sure, but that didnt hinder the production of a good show. The Strengths of their performance clearly over
shadowed the confusion of their intentions.
Though the majority of their show was pre written material, the Lemming Project 
labels itself an improvisation group and is, 
to its members collective knowledge, the on
ly improv in Pittsburgh. Improv is the art 
of writing onstage. Usually the performers 
will ask for input from the audience, and 
continue working suggestions into the 
sketch. The Lemming style of improv started 
with audience suggestions, but then 
degenerated into theatrical games in which 
they continued to improvise, but using their 
own ideas. The strength was their ability to 
pour drama into every every scene, even 
when they didnt know what they were go
ing to say next.
A good part of their comedy is based on 
social satire. There was an abundance of 
television satire; they opened with LemTV 
and ended with LemmingAid, a benefit for 
those who never made a smooth transition 
from the sixties to the eighties. There were 
at least four mentions of Were Beatrice 
after various commercial parodies. They also 
performed a couple of musical parodies, as 
well as some original songs which ranged in 
genre from old blues to rock to an 
eurythmic, Laurie Anderson-esque chant 
about the Yuppie lifestyle.
Their more dramatic sketches included a 
melodramatic soap opera called Another 
Story and a silent feature in which a sweet, 
homeless hobo donated everything he had 
to a young woman, and suddenly found 
himself hauled off to jail. Perhaps the 
dramatic highlight was a fairly intense 
sketch that had most of the qualifications 
of a one-act play. In it, a man is having trou
ble with his job, his family, and His life in 
general. Through an array of lighting and 
character changes, he was catapulted 
through an introspective mental journey to 
ultimately learn what he had missed in life. 
The Lemmings are actors.
About half of the sketches involved sing
ing, either for parody or for background 
music as in their commercial for Falwells
Restaurant--Home of the Bible Burger. 
With two female voices, two male voices, and 
a fifth who proved that he could sing both, 
they were a well-rounded choir. Also within 
the five member group are a great sax
ophone player and a great guitar player who 
doubles as a drummer. In fact, the Lemm
ing Project hopes to someday have a full 
band within itself. The Lemmings are 
musical performers.
They only asked for audience input on 
three occasions, but there was more im
provisation than some may have imagined. 
According to Doug Pona, the groups pro
ducer and a working member, Some of the 
things we do that look like set things...we 
have an idea for them, but theyre improvis
ed... we pretty much fool ourselves. The 
Lemmings are an improvisation group.
And on top of all that, the Lemmings do 
tend to be funny. Individually, the members 
have all had extensive dramatic training, 
and that really shows onstage. But is their 
prime directive comedy or drama? Thats a 
dangerous question, because the Lemming 
Project (which did, by the way, get its name 
from the National Lampoon Lemmings 
show) likes to balance on the fine line bet
ween the two. The comedy that I like to 
watch, says Lemming John Mupper, is 
comedy that says something as well.
As for where they will eventually fall, no 
one is sure. The group is nearly a year old, 
and has done a lot of Graffitis Open Stage 
nights, but Thurdays show was their first 
headline performance. Pona says that the 
group is still experimental; ...a fishing ex
pedition, of sorts. For now, they hope to 
make a home base for themselves at Graf
fiti, primarily a music club, and to become 
associated with it through future shows.
Joke of the week
The main building at Episcopal Divinity 
School in Cambridge, Mass,. was built in the 
era of low-priced and plentiful oil. A 
computer-controlled heating system now en
forces fuel conservation.
During one cold snap, students were 
grumbling about the lack of heat. The pro
fessor tried to explain the intricacies of the 
furnace, finally stating that the building is 
heated by computer.
Well then, one young man said through 
chattering teeth, why dont they just throw 
another one on the fire?
PITTSBURGH DANCE COUNCIL presents
EACCBP OSAoT uthLY eShmnP 
uB.Y NCAmYLp aABCgYg
February 1st, 8 PM, Heinz Hall
Its dancing to beat the band!
Tickets $6 - $25 on sale NOW 
TicketCharge (392-4900), PDC Office (355-0330) 
and TIX at Oliver Plaza MC/V
For Season Ticket Information Call 355-0330
Pittsburgh composers present concert
PITTSBURGH: The Pittsburgh Alliance of 
Composers will present a concert featuring 
music of several of its members on Wednes
day, January 29, at 8:00 p.m. The concert 
will take place in the First Unitarian Church 
located at Morewood and Ellsworth Avenues. 
Admission will be as a suggested donation 
to the work of the Alliance.
The concert will consist of music which 
has been written by composers currently liv
ing and working in Pittsburgh and nearby 
West Virginia. Among other pieces the pro
gram will include Triptych for Three Trom
bones by Byron McCulloh (CMU faculty 
member), Intermix for Horn and Electronic 
Tape by David Berlin (CMU Alumnus), and 
Songs for Soprano and Piano by John Beall.
Byron McCulloh, current president of the
Alliance, is a long standing member of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony as bass-trombonist. 
David Berlin is a faculty member at North 
Allegheny High School where he teaches 
music theory, history, composition and 
supervises the electronic music studio. John 
Beall is a distinguished faculty member in 
the School of Fine Arts, West Virginia 
University.
The Pittsburgh Alliance of Composers 
was founded eleven years ago to encourage 
the composition of new music in all styles 
and to provide opportunities for the public 
to hear this music. President Byron 
McCulloh emphasizes that good composers 
are not necessarily dead, but alive and work 
ing at their art as members of our 
community.
WEDNESDAY JAN. 29 
8:00 P.M.
CMU vs. BETHANY COLLEGE
The basketball team wants 
YOUR support!
So come to the game 
and cheer on the Tartans 
with a FREE MEGAPHONE!
Bring your friends and 
your I.D. The first group 
of fans will receive their 
own megaphones to use 
at the Tartan games.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanJanuary 28, 1986
conttiuei
HOME VIDEO: 
JOHN BELUSHI
By PATTI THOMPSON
Special to The Tartan
Warner Home Video has come to the 
rescue of those who had despaired not cat
ching further glimpses of John Belushis 
greatest work. The Best of John Belushi, a 
60 minute melange of Belushis best sketches 
on Saturday Night Live.
One facet of Belushi that Best concen
trates on is his musical side. The tape opens 
with Belushi and sidekick Dan Ackroyd 
belting out their rendition of Soul Man, 
and they return later with another Blues 
Brothers tune. Viewers with sharp eyes will 
notice David Letterman music director Paul 
Shafer on the keybords in the background, 
still with hair!
Belushis talent for musical parody is also 
showcased in imitations of Joe Cocker, and 
Beethoven, who starts with the Ninth Sym
phony and finishes with My Girl. He also 
puts in an appearance in his Killer Bee 
costume acrobatically crooning King Bee.
Devotees of food humor, a Belushi forte, 
will delight in the portrayal of an 
elephantine Liz Taylor vividly espousing her 
chicken diet. Olympic Track Champion 
Relushi also outs in an appearance with his 
endorsements of Little Chocolate Donuts 
The Breakfast of Champions. Belushi also 
teams up with Bill Murray in a sketch about 
a Greek restaurant whose menu consists sole 
ly of cheeseburgers and Pepsi; no Coke.
A true gem on the tape is Belushis 
editorial denunciation of Irishmen. He starts 
out relatively calmly, speaking about an Irish 
buddv. but once be reveals that the buddy 
was busted for trafficking. Not possession. 
Trafficking! On the way to his mothers 
funeral!!, Belushi is throwing himself on the 
fiorcontinued on page 15
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise in 
Oakland's Cultural Center 
EFF. 1-2 BRYour suite includes: -Heat, A/C, fulily equipped kitchens,w/w carpeting, J spacious closets.
Cable TV available Off street covered parking available Limo & bus at door Resident storage space Furnished units available Weekdays Weekends9 5 621-4132 124
NORTHROP
Aircraft Division
Aircraft Group
United Vtfey
IRST TRINITY LUTH HR AN Cl II'HO ' (Missouri Svnod)
531 North N (within walkingvii Strofi. ()iklirxi (listener o mulinisi
ADI LT HIBLK CLASS: 9:45 AM \\ t )RS1 IIP SKRYI: 11:00 AM SI NDAY HYl-NINt, I I lLLt >WS1 IIP: ~:i PM at parsonagf. 535 N Ncvillf
Pastor Robert I Uider 083-4440
DOHERTY 2210 CINEMA
characteristics of future 
military requirements and 
then exploring potential 
applications of new and 
existing technologies to meet
those requirements. Meeting 
this challenge has resulted in 
designing, developing and 
producing some of the 
worlds most reliatJe aircraft 
and airborne systems. Pro
ducts which include the F-20 
Tigershark, the F/A-18, the 
F-5 series, and the 747 
fuselage.
By JOE FERRUGIA & MIKE McHUGH
Special to The Tartan
Thursday
Gentlemen Prefer 
Blondes
Marilyn Monroe stars with Jane Russel in 
this bright saucy version of Anita Loos tale 
of two Little Rock gals who set out for Paris. 
When you see the musical number 
Diamonds are a Girls Best Friend youll 
know where Madonna got the idea for her 
Material Girl video from. Monroe is in one 
of her best comedy roles prior to Seven Year 
Itch.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 3.50
Seven Year Itch
Marilyn Monroe stars as the beautiful 
blonde upstairs and Tom Ewell (of Baretta) 
as the man whose wife has gone on vacation. 
If you think something happens just 
remember that this movie was made in the 
50s. Movie standards kept the summer af
fair cool but very, very funny. Excellently 
directed by Billy Wilder.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 3.75
Saturday
Rambo: First Blood 
Part II
Hes at it again going against Vietnamese 
Soldiers holding American POWs. If you 
like Laurence Olivier and Katharine Hep
burn dont bother showing up. If you like to 
see the enemy get his ass kicked then bring 
your flag and your Bowie knife and enjoy.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 3.25 
Sunday
The Adventures of 
Buckaroo Banzai
This is the unusual story of a 
neurosurgeon-rock star-philosopher-folk 
hero, and all around good guy named 
Buckaroo Banzai who battles the alien 
treachery of Dr. Emileo Lizardo and his 
band of evil Lectroids from the 8th dimen
sion. The story is sometimes a little confus
ing, but its definitely a wild and wacky allout good time.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 3.75
Meet with Northrop 
Aircraft Division 
Monday, 
March 3, 1986.
At Northrop Aircraft Divi
sion, our challenge involves 
examining the fundamental
If youre thinking about your 
career after college, consider 
making our challenges yours. 
Northrop Aircraft Division 
will be on your campus, 
Monday, March 3, 1986. 
Check with your Placement 
Office for more details.
PROOF OF U.S. CITIZEN
SHIP REQUIRED. Northrop 
is an Equal Opportunity 
Employer M/F/H/V.
Bus Stop
Based on the William Inge play, this is a 
first class production. Marilyn Monroe stars 
in this rousing rodeo romance. Don Murray 
(Knots Landing) costars as a cowboy in love 
for the first time and if you cant guess with 
whom you definitely need glasses. Arthur 
OConnell is also good. Directed by Joshua 
Logan.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 3.50
Friday
Fright Night
If you like laughing in terror than this is 
the movie for you. Chris Sarandon plays a 
modern day vampire, Roddy McDowell plays 
a fading horror-movie star who tries to put 
an end to the evil creature. Old movie cliches 
are played for laughs and screams. This film 
has one of the best combinations of comedy 
and horror ever.
TARTAN MOVIE RATING 4.00

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 1986The TartanPage 15
layoutArrange Fill tines P*
Hide Ruler*tandards
Normal Size 
Reduce to Fit 
Reduce 
Enlarge
Turn 6rid Off 
Hide Ruler tines36 Andersen window
Hide Size
Hide Page Breaks ,........
Drawing Size... --------
Check in/oil
Pubi i c 
Area j
John Belushi
continued from page 14
The tape was produced in part by the 
widowed Jacqueline Belushi, and concludes with 
a morbidly vivid item. Belushi returns as an 
aged man, the sole Saturday Night Live sur
vivor, to visit for the Not Ready for Prime 
Time Cemetery. He describes the death of 
each of his compatriots, ironically noting 
they always thought Id be the first to go. 
But the tape ends on an upbeat note, as 
Belushis eyes glint as he reveals the secret 
for his long life.
The only real problem with the tape is 
that it is too short. 60 minutes isnt anywhere 
close to enough time to present even the 
best of Belushi. In fact, Warner inserts a 
set of teasers, short clips of other skits, that 
play along with the closing credits and only 
serve to whet the viewers appetite for more.
Movie Trivial .What hotel served the space station in 2001: A Space Odyssey?
2.What does SPECTRE denote?AnswersUOlJiOfXJ
puv aSuana# rusuojuaj iajunoj lof aaipuaxj vpa4s Z
iiojltH LL ICMU Prof at Hewlett Gallery
By WALTER G. RITCHIE
Tartan StaffwriterThe Hewlett Gallery in CFA is now 
presenting an exhibition of the work of 
Susanne Slavick, an associate professor of 
drawing and painting in the CMU Art Department. The exhibition includes oil paintings that she has completed over the past several years. All her paintings are 
characterized by a recurring theme: views of 
baroque formal gardens framed by the openings of latticed trellises.
In most of her paintings, we,observe the formal gardens from an aerial point of view, almost as if we are floating above them and looking down. Interceding between the 
observer and the formal gardens below are 
latticed trellises with arched openings. These 
openings shape and focus our view of the bizarre colorful images. Baroque formal 
gardens always achieved a sense of flamboyance and theatricallity; Slavicks 
gardens are more surreal, achieving a fan
tastic and dream like quality.An interesting feature in Slavick's paint
ings is the division of the canvas into two sec
tions. This division sets up the observer for 
a contrast within the one theme. In Gardens 
(1985), we see an aerial view of a baroque 
formal garden on the left side of the can vas. The scene is characterized by bright colors and a sense of free, open space. On the 
right side of the canvas, we see tall, dark, 
and ominous hedges with a bramble of 
thorns jutting through the space. The observer now encounters a sense of darkness 
and constriction.One of the most interesting paintings in 
the showing is The Descent: Merciful 
Longues and Angel's Wings (1985). In this 
painting, the trellis is not merely painted on
to the canvas. It is real. Overlapping strips of wood are attached to the canvas and extended to the gallery floor. The use of this 
three-dimensional form in a twodimensional painting enhances the sense of depth and makes everything on the canvas 
seem more "real. The painted forms of 
floating leaves look as if they are about to lall out of the canvas and into the gallery.
I strongly urge everyone to "visually in
dulge in the work of this CMU artist. 1 he 
showing ends Thursday.
Baroque Music Comes to Pittsburgh
By ADORA PHILLIPS
Tartan Staffwriter
For the first time, Pittsburghs professional 
baroque ensemble, Musics Recreation, the 
Ensemble in Residence with the Renaissance 
and Baroque Society of Pittsburgh, will join 
forces with members of the Boston Museum 
Trio in a special concert of baroque music. 
The concert is presented by the Renaissance 
and Baroque Society and will take place on 
Saturday, February 1, in Synod Hall, 125 
North Craig Street, Oakland, at 8:30 p.m.
Titled A Baroque Musical Banquet, the 
program offers a refreshing feast of infre
quently performed baroque music for the 
unusual instrumental combination of two 
baroque violins, two viola de gambas, baro
que flute, and harpsichord. During the 
Baroque era there was a constant battle bet
ween the proponents of the Italian and 
French style of composition, and this pro
gram reflects the perplexities of an 
Englishman writing in the French style, two 
Frenchmen trying to imitate the Italian style, 
and an Italian of German residence writing 
music that defies categorization.
The concert opens with a composition by
Henry Purcell, the Suite in G. This Suite 
takes the form of a typical French suite, yet 
retains Purcells highly individual character. 
His settings of the Bouree and Jigg, in par
ticular, have an unmistakably English sound. 
The performance will also include the ex
traordinary Capriccio Stravagante, with its 
musical portrayal of cats, dogs, a fife and 
drum, and a hurdy gurdy, Michel Blavets 
Vivaldi-like Flute Concerto, and Francois 
Couperins majestic La Sultane, an Italianstyle composition notable for the extended 
length and development of individual 
movements.
Daniel Stepner, a violinist of great ver
satility, and Laura Jeppesen, guest artists, 
are internationally known for their perfor
mances not only with the Boston Museum 
Trio, but also with Banchetto Musicale and 
Frans Brueggens Orchestra of the Eigh
teenth Century.
Tickets for A Baroque Musical Banquet 
may be purchased in advance at the TIX 
Booth in Oliver Plaza, and at the door. 
Ticket prices are $10.00 per adult and $7.00 
per student. Tickets are general admission 
only.
How to build a better world.
Allow us to suggest tliree ways. MacDraft 
MacDraw And MacPaint
The combination of these programs, along 
with a Macintosh computer, will give architectural 
students unlimited freedom to create. Wliether it be 
for drawing buildings, designing urban landscapes, 
or drafting engineering and construction plans.
This is just one example of how Macintosh 
lielps students work smarter, quicker and 
more creatively. And the beauty of Macintosh is, 
you don't have to know diddlev about computers 
to use one.
So get a Macintosh. The world fliT 
will be a better place for it.Apple ('.oniputer. Inc. Apple, tlie Apple logo. MacDraw ;uul Machtmt are trademarks of Apple Gimputer. Inc MacDrali is a trademark of Ini native Dala Design. Inc Macintosh is a trademarkof McIntosh laboratory Inc anil is king used with its express permission

---------------------------------------------------

Everyone's talking about 
them and they're talking 
about everyone. Listen in. 
You'll get an earful. You'll 
also laugh a lot at this 
comic attack on the 
uppercrust.
8 p.m.
Feb. 12-15, 19-22 
2 p.m.
Feb. 15 and 22
(Artists' Forum follows Feb. 15 
performance.)
Kresge Theatre 
College of Fine Arts
Student/Senior Citizen 
Rate: $5
Ask about $10 package for The 
Women and Samba, a new 
musical.
Box Office: 268-2407
College of Fine Arts 
Tickets also available 
at Skibo Information Desk
Another Exciting Carnegie 
Mellon Drama Department 
Production
WRCT-FRI
Waskly Talk Bfom
Call in and join the fun)
FEEDBACK Thursdays 6:00 - 7:00pm
Issues of current oca! and campus interest 
uanuary 30--Public Relations 
ceDruary 6--Campus Security
SPORTSLINE Tuesdays 6:00 - 6:30pm
The week's sports in review with special quests
PH0NEB00TH Thursdays 9:00 - 10:30pm
In the Wrct tradition, with your host Chuck. Farley! 
Elevator Races 
Fraternity Feud 
"Celebrity uuests' every week.
WRCT is funded by student activities fee
doifird
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA & 2 LITER PEPSI$3.50
IZZAINOAKLANDATPRICE!
681-2202 or 681-2203

---------------------------------------------------

Lockhead, Tomi/son gain All-American honors
Men's hooSQuad falls to Thiel College, 78-73
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Senior soccer co-captains Charlie 
Lockhead and Alex Tomilson earned the first All-American titles in the history of1
 their sport at CMU, last week. Leading their squad to a record number of victories in the regular season and coming within inches of 
V an NCAA playoff berth for the second year 
in a row, these honors were just icing on the 
cake.
Division III , second-team, AllAmerican 
is the official title held by Lockard. He attained this honor by gaining the most votes as an All-Regional (PA-NJ-DE) midfielder. Only five other players from this region were 
selected.
Lockhead, who is a four-year member of the All-Conference team, garnered the most 
goals ever in a single season with 15. Coupl' * ed with assists, the senior co-captain earn
ed 41 points, another Tartan high. In his 
four years as a letter-man, Lockhead has tallied 35 goals and 35 assists.
Tomilson boasts the title of Academic AllAmerican. This is the first year this honor
ing double major, Tomilson had to surpass 
certain academic standards as well as show
ing prowess in his sport.
As a defender, Tomilson was an All-Regional 
pick this year and like Lockhead, a four-year 
veteran of the All-Conference team. For a 
total of 28 points in four years, the senior 
engineer hit the net nine times and assisted
10 times.
Head Coach Nick Guadiso praised the 
duo by saying that he was happy" for them, 
though he also feels that it has taken them 
this four years to finally come into their 
own, and unfortunately, neither one will 
have the chance to fully mature at the col
lege level.
Though Tomilson and Lockhead gained 
All-American honors, the pair were not the 
only squad members to come away from the 
1985-86 season with athletic honors. 
Sophomore mid-fielder Keving Jung set a 
school record for the most assists in a season, 
as well as making both the All-Conference 
and All-Regional teams.
Other All-PAC picks from the squad in
clude: junior forward Doug Anderson, 13
goals on the season, senior goalkeeper Sam 
Montague, with a Tartan high of 10 
shutouts, and freshman standout defender 
Mark Zoldi.
,MM*. MM
Alex Tomilson
Lady hoopsters visit Geneva; return defeated
Last Wednesday's tip-off against Thiel 
College brought the hoopsters an unfor
tunate five-point defeat. Sophomore center 
Hart Coleman led the squad offensively and 
defensivley, with 19 tallies, and 10 rebounds, 
respectively. Senior co-captain Richard Neff 
was the next highest scorer with 17 points.
The Tartans will play host to a tough 
Bethany team in a match scheduled to begin 
at 8:00 pm., Wednesday. Saturday they will 
travel to Grove City.
has been given to soccer players, and 
Tomilson competed nationally for the prize. 
A senior Electrical and Computer EngineerCharlie Lockhead
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Suffering an eight point defeat last Satur
day, the Womens Basketball Team traveled 
to Geneva College only to return home with a 70-62 loss.
The opening minutes of the game 
prepared the crowd for a relatively evenly 
matched contest, with each team tallying 
several times. The home team pulled out to 
a three-point lead about midway through 
the stanza. The go-ahead was short lived, 
however, as the Tartans retaliated in the form 
of Allison Guy to give the guests a 19-18 lead.
Despite a valiant effort, CMU couldnt extend its lead, and just minutes later, the 
scoreboard showed the home team to be up 
by 10 points, 36-26. The Tartans^rallied in the final minute of play, with a foul shot by 
Aimee Reber, follwed by back-to-back 
baskets from freshmen Roseanna Neupauer 
and Beth Virgin, to split the difference and 
come within five. As the buzzer sounded, the score read: Geneva 36, CMU 31.
Forward Virgin dropped in a quick two 
Jt to open the second half, but CMU just as quickly lost possession. It was catch-up all 
the way for the visiting squad, as freshman 
guard Lisa Lightner managed to give her 
team the lead. The hoopsters were only able to hold on until the halfway point when fouls
Lisa Lightner tallies two.
began to take their toll.
Genevas 80% foul shooting influence the 
remainder of the match, as the home team 
managed to open up for an unanswered 10
point run.
Freshman forward Reber led the team 
both offensively and defensively with a high 
of 17 tallies and 12 rebounds, respectively.
Classmates Lightner and Virgin followed 
the scoring trend with 11 and 10 points, 
respectively. Virgin also pulled down 10 
rebounds.
Last Wednesday brought the Lady Tartans 
to Theil College for yet another unfortunate 
defeat.
Theil.broke out to a fast 6-0 lead, which 
the visitors subsequently matched and beat, 
with shots from Reber coupled with prowess 
from the foul line by guard Valerie Sooky.
The Tartans had scoring from all sides, 
but to no avail, as the hosts had doubled 
CMUs score by the half.
Co-captain Nancy Dilulio opened the 
scoring in the second half, but CMU just 
couldnt pull it together. Theil owned the 
game with a dominating 20 point lead 
throughout the period, eventually securing 
the victory, 80-52.
The freshmen controlled Tartan scoring 
as Lightner and Reber were the only 
hoopsters to break into the double figures, 
garnering 10 points apiece.
Thursday the hoopsters will take on 
Bethany College in a tough conference tipoff. The match is slated to begin at 7:00 
p.m., with the Tartans testing the home 
court advantage. Saturday willfind the 
squad at Grove City College for a 7:00 p.m. 
contest.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanJanuary 28, 1986Attendance lower than '85
Brcic's stunning saves may rescue the Spirit
Brcic was aided by a strong Spirit defense, made seVeral outstanding saves, and set up 
led by Helmut Dudek, but deserves special the other defensive miracle of the night, 
credit for several outstanding plays. Towards 
the end of the first overtime, the Sting pierc
ed the Pittsburgh defensive net and battered 
Brcic with cannon-like intensity. But Brcic
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
The Spirit have not been drawing well of 
late. Their average attendance is 1000 below 
last years figures. Talk of moving the team 
has surfaced once again.
But if the Spirit can provide 
consistent performances like
But the real jewel, and a record breaker 
at that, came against the Chicago Sting 
eight days later, when the Spirit triumphed 
1-0 in double overtime. He went 75 minutes 
and 48 seconds without allowing a goal, the 
longest scoreless game in MISL histor
&
those given by goaltender David 
Brcic lately, they should have no 
problems at the ticket offiq?.
Last week, Brcic was named the MISL 
Defensive Player of the Week for the second 
consecutive week and an unprecedented 
fourth time this year.
Why has Brcic, an offseason free agent 
aquisiton from Wichita, played so well this 
season? He doesnt really know that himself. 
I just go out and play the best I can each 
game. Im not doing anything different. 
Brcic is a former NASL outdoor star who 
went with the league when it moved indoors. 
He started last season with the New York 
Cosmos of the MISL, but moved on to 
Wichita after the Big Apple franchise fold
ed. Last year, he was 9-17 with a 4.85 goalsagainst-average, versus 9-7 with a 3.83 gaa 
this season.
What has won Brcic his latter two Player 
of the Week awards is his spectacular play 
over the last two home games, 140 con
secutive minutes without allowing a goal. A 
5-4 overtime victory in Chicago didnt hurt, 
but two consecutive home shutouts in a sport 
where each team averages five goals a game 
is unheard of.
He picked up his first shutout against the 
Kansas City Comets on January 9. In that 
game, he faced 18 shots and made eight 
saves, against a team that had one five out 
of its last seven games, and features Keith 
Furphy, a former Cleveland Star who ranks 
in the top ten in the league in scoring.The Spirits Dave Brcic saves with style.photo courtesy Pittsburgh Spirit
As the result of a holding penalty by 
Adam Topolski, Chicago midfielder Manny 
Rojas was awarded a penalty kick at 8:38 of 
the first overtime. Amazingly, Rojas missed 
the net, and Brcic was able to recover the 
rebound. Noted coach Don Popovic, That 
is a 90-95% shot; there is no way he should 
of missed that. But that is not to take 
anything away form the way David played.
Field Hockey 
Stars Honored
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Edior
Three members of the 1985-86 Womens 
Field Hockey Team were voted to this years 
All-Conference Squad. Senior co-captains 
Maria Kozo and Lynne Otto, as well as 
freshman standout Sheila Bomberger made 
the team.
Despite the fact that Kozo didnt finish the 
season due to a knee injury, she led the team 
in goals and assists, with four and two 
respectively. The senior Industrial Design 
major was also the recipient of the Suzy 
Reynhout Award by her teammates.
Otto gained a spot on the squad as a link, 
though she too, had knee trouble throughout 
the season. Playing both offense and defense 
in the position she has done her teammates 
proud, as they proved by voting her Most 
Valuable Player at the close of the sean.
Freshman star Bomberger stunned the 
PAC with her outstanding defensive abilities, 
as she too earned her spot as a link.
Graduating goalkeeper Sue Klein 
garnered a position on the third team.
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.! 
is YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apts. Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Members, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and .inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'H see YOU at 
THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
3 PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA>810 IVY STREET682-3333
.. Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AM
FREE Delivery Sun(joy 01 rm-i2 am
We sell pizza by the slice
SPECIAL: Order $1000 or 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Choose Pizza.
<NN
LARGE$
PIZZA
-o
B
FREE
ir of Coke 
With Purchase 
Off Large Pina
B
B

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 1986The TartanPage 19
Swimmers garner individual titles at Kenyon
Coach Morosky termed the competition 
tough, and commented that it gave the 
better swimmers on the squad to see teams 
such as Ohio State, whom we dont usually 
swim against.
The Womens Team, though they didnt 
tally any points, had some impressive in
dividual accomplishments. Freshmen Suzie 
Kelly and Francesca Crannell, as well as 
sophomore Carol Pimpino all made it to the 
consolation finals in their respective events. 
Kelly put in an impressive performance in
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Kenyon College was the sight, and twelve 
Division I, II, and III teams provided the 
[ competition, last weekend, as the Mens and 
Womens Swim Teams participated in an invitational meet.
Junior standout Steve Francis did his team 
proud, as he captured two red ribbons. His 
f specialty, the freestyle, pitted him against 
some tough competitors, but he managed to 
place second in both the 50 and 100 yard
her specialty, as she finished at 2:37 in the 
200 yard backstroke.
Classmate Crannell, garnered an 11th 
place finish out of a field of about 50 in the 
50 yard free, while Pimpino completed the 
100 yard breast stroke at 1:16.
The natators will be entertaining swim
mers from Bethany and St. Francis Colleges 
Wednesday in a meet slated to begin at 6:00 
p.m. Saturday will have the Tartans travel
ing to Hiram for a match-up with Gannon 
and Hiram Colleges.
races. The 50 yard contest was a thriller, as 
Francis finished just seven one-hundredths of 
a second behind the leader.
Competing in the mile race, junior 
natator Rob Summers improved his time by 
almost a minute and a half from last year, 
as he finished 13th of about 30 in the 1650 
yard swim.
Also, on the mens side, coach Donna 
Morosky noted the improvement of Mike Fit
zgeralds time in the 400 yard IM from last 
year. He completed the race at 4:38.
Intramural Report
announced:
Majors: 1st DU-A 
2nd Phi Kap-A 
3rd TX-A 
Intermediates: 1st  DU-C
2nd  Bowlers for Jersey 
3rd UDS and Phi Kap-C 
Minors: 1stTX-B
2nd Phi Kap-C 
3rd -CSO and McGill 
The next meeting will be held February 
6, and 12:30 p.m., in the Intramural Office, 
Gym 101.
Basketball season opened with a flurry of 
rames and a record breaking participation 
)f 106 teams and 1000 players. The only 
jndefeated team in the majors is the ATO 
Wolfpack, at 3-0, followed closely by Beta\ and the Skywalders, tied for second in the 
A Division. On the flip side in the B Divi
sion, Pika-A and the Pretty Boys are tied for 
the most wins, while the Youngsters are at
: third.
Both the A and B Divisions of the 
intermediates show three-way ties for first 
place. The Alabama Siammers, Crabs, and 
Betas Quigleys lead the pack on the A side, 
while Kappa Sig-A, the UDS Lakers, and 
Jordans Angels share the honor on the 
B side.
Only one game was played in the C 
division, with the Yanks beating out the Beta 
Benedicts.
First place teams in the D" and  Divi
sions are Betas Wooglin Five and Busters 
Highmen, respectively, each at 2-0.
Finally, the F Division matches left both 
the Steel City Cafe and the Squad victorious.
Backgammon and pinochle schedules and 
rules have been published and both are
available in the IM office. Commissioner for 
backgammon is Todd Bross 682-5134, and 
pinochle commissioner is Vince Carozza  
687-8940.
LAST CALL FOR THE FOLLOWING 
SPORTS: 
Handball
Entries due: Thursday, January 30, at 
4:30 p.m.
Water Basketball
Entries due: Thursday, January 30, at 
4:40 p.m.
Floor Hockey
Entries due: Wednesday, January 29, at 
4:30 p.m.
Commissioner: Rob Schlackman 
-693-3739.
A rules clinic will be held the following 
day at 4:30 p.m. in the IM office. 
Wrestling
All wrestling matches and practices will 
be held in Thistle Hall. Practice sessions 
are set for: M-W-F 3:30-5:00 p.m.
M-W 7:00-9:00 p.m.
Saturday 10:00-11:30 a.m.
Comissioner: Joe Keefleer /687-6964. 
The IM bowling champs have been
WRCT Sports this week
Woodsy Owl says 
for Clean Air Ride a Bike
Give a hoot. 
Dont pollute.
Forest Service, U.S.D.A. 0
Tuesday. Sportsline 6-6:30 pm. Guest to be 
announced.
Wednesday. Mens basketball versus Bethany 
at Skibo Gym. 7:50 air time, 8 pm game 
time.
Thursday. Womens basketball versus 
Bethany at Skibo Gym. 6:50 air time, 7 pm 
game time.
Saturday. Mens basketball at Grove City. 
7:50 air time, 8 pm game time.
ICE SKATE 
at Sehen ley Park
Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, etc 
delivered to your dorm. 
Call
687-FOOD
5:00 p.m. to Midnite 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/ Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.
 Private Parties
 Group Rates
 College ID Night
 Tuesday, 7 pm
For hours and rates call 521-8579. 
Additional information at 521-9924.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanJanuary 28, 1986Both teams physical
Hockey drops tough fought contest to Pitt, 4-2
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The Ice Tartans dropped a hard fought 
game to Pitt last week, losing a very physical 
battle, 4-2.
The two teams broke out fast early, try
ing to outskate each other. Pitt was quite 
physical, and many skirmishes in the first 
period set the tone for the game. Five 
minutes and twenty seconds into the game, 
Tartan Mike Halloran and Pitts Pete Barber 
were called for slashing minors. Both teams 
skated evenly until the 8:07 mark, when 
Carnegie Mellon was given a penalty for hav
ing too many men on the ice. But just a scant 
thirty seconds later, Mike Halloran again was 
given a penalty, this time for charging, 
which gave Pitt a good power play 
opportunity.
As the Tartans tried to kill the penalty, 
John Blackwood scored his third goal of the 
year on a perfect pass from Greg Timmons, 
to put the Tartans ahead by a score of 1-0. 
Blackwood, the Skoal Player of the Game, 
said that it took the perfect pass from Tim
mons for him to score. Blackwood shot the 
puck just to the left of Pitt goaltender Jeff 
Rohays glove, with only about a two inch 
gap between Rohay and the left post. After 
the goal, Pitt began to play very physical 
hockey, which caused tempers to heighten. 
By the end of the period, the Panthers Marc 
Bowers was called for elbowing, and the Tar
tans had their first power play opportunity 
of the game.
As the first period ended, the momentum 
began to shift to the Panthers, as a key 
penalty by the Tartans Sean McGinn only 
2:03 into the period was a contributing fac
tor in Pitts emotional rise. Pitt began to 
skate better as the period wore on, and three 
minutes later, Pitts Roger Oldaker scored on
a pass from Jeff Belle and Bill Kicinski to 
tie the score at one a piece. The first Pitt 
goal was tough on us, explained Blackwood 
after the game. The goal came through a 
tangle of players in front of the Tartan 
goaltender Marc Bonasso, and the puck just 
caught the upper right corner of the net. 
The teams both continued to play rough 
hockey for the rest of the period, and neither 
team was able to score a goal for the re
mainder of the period.
The teams came out strong for the third 
period, as the physical battle began to wear 
on the players. At 1:39 into the period 
though, Greg Timmons and Pitts John Pet
tit both were called for interference. Just ten 
seconds later, Pitts Jim Owens was called for 
high sticking, and the Tartans found 
themselves in a power play position. The 
Tartans capitalized quickly, as only 6 seconds 
into the power play, senior forward Bob 
Koch scored his fourth goal of the season on 
a pass from Don Heyse and Mark Licata to 
put Carnegie Mellon ahead by a scor^ of 2-1.
Soon after the goal though, Carnegie 
Mellon began to fall apart, as their penalty 
killing units began to wear out. Five seconds 
after the goal, the Tartans were called for 
too many men on the ice, which signaled the 
beginning of the end for the Tartans. Pitt 
kept checking hard, and finally wore the 
Tartans out. Four minutes after the bench 
minor to the Tartans, Pitts Jim Hendrickson 
scored on a slapshot from the blueline to tie 
the game at two apiece. The slapshot caught 
the upper right hand corner of the net, as 
Bonasso was slow in reacting to the shot. 
This play was followed by a small fight in 
front of the net, as Pitts Jeff Belle was call
ed for roughing as he crashed into a crowd 
by the Carnegie Mellon goal after a whistle 
had blown. A small fight ensued, as the Tar
Our three-year and two-year scholarships won't 
make college easier.
Just easier to pay fbi:
Even if you didnt start college on a scholarship, you 
could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships 
pay for full tuition and allowances for educational 
fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 
a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS
See Capt. Colvin in MMC B7 or call 268-2205.
tans were out to protect their goaltender who 
was caught at the bottom of the pile.
Two minutes of tough hockey elapsed 
before the key play of the game occurred, 
as Sean McGinn was called for roughing 
along with Pitts Pete Barber. Barber had 
done all the punching, as McGinn received 
a bloody chin via Barbers flying stick. But 
the referees decided to send both men to the 
penalty box. This penalty was the end for 
the Tartans, as they were emotionally and 
physically drained. Only a minute and a half 
later, Pitts Greg Scmitetter took a pass from 
Jeff Belle and scored on a fine play to put 
Pitt ahead to stay, 3-2. The shot was hard 
to see, as it came through a crowd of 
defenders, but it was hard enough to elude 
Tartan goaltender Ron Bonasso.
After the goal, the Tartans had to skate 
all out, but it was just not enough to over
power a larger, more physical Pitt team. 
John Blackwood was not blown out by Pitts 
physical play, as it was less than expected.
But with just over a minute left, the Tartans 
had to pull Ron Bonasso from goal to get 
an extra attacker. As the net was vacated 
two Pitt shots went just wide of the net, but 
the third long shot from the Pitt blue line 
was true, as Jeff Belle scored an insurance 
goal, and the Pitt Panthers had a 4-2 win. 
The officiating also played a big part of 
the game, as referees were quick to call ic
ing at times when it should have been wav
ed off. A few Tartan scoring opportunities 
were thwarted by a quick whistle, which was 
tough for the Tartans to swallow. The Tar
tans though are still optimistic, as they will 
face Pitt again. Blackwood is looking for
ward to facing the Panthers again, as they 
saw where their weak spots were. The Pan
thers were able to cover their weaknesses 
through physical hockey, but the Carnegie 
Mellon hockey team is confident that they 
know how to beat Pitt the next time around. 
This loss is tough to take, explained 
Blackwood, but we have all the talent to 
bounce back with some wins.
Butts cops award
Robert Butts, Carnegie Mellons AllAmerican offensive tackle, will be among 
those honored at the 50th annual Dapper 
Dan Sports Banquet to be held on the 
weekend of February 8.
Butts, a senior, was one of the captains on 
the PAC champion Tartans last year and 
helped lead the team to the Division III foot
ball playoffs. He will be the only Carnegie 
Mellon athlete to be saluted at the function.
The banquet will feature the Steelers 
Louis Lipps, the Dapper Dan Sportsman of 
the Year, and will also boast many national 
and local sports celebrities.Rob Buttsphoto by Tom Otterbein
SPORTS FANS:
Write for the
Y A TtT'A-AT f
If you are already 
a staffwriter
or would like to be... 
come to the Sports staff 
meeting in the Tartan 
Main Office (Skibo 50) 
on Wednesday at
5 oclock.
Or CallJill, our Sports Editor, at X2111 and leave a message.

---------------------------------------------------

TUTORS WANTED!
The Counseling Center needs 
Chemistry and Calculus tutors for
walk-in tutoring.
Pays $3.50/hr.
Call the Counseling Center
X2922
TOP ENGINEERING AND 
TECHNICAL GRADUATES
WE HAVE A LOT IN COMMON
Innovation, challenge, openness: that's Intel. Just the kind of environment you 
need to make the most of your hard-earned degree. Consider some of our 
most important firsts: Random Access Memory (RAM). Erasable Programmable 
Read-Only Memory (EPROM), the first microprocessor, the first single-board 
computer, the first microcomputer development system and the first million-bit 
bubble memory. Ours is the kind of environment where you can become a 
moving force behind the shape of future technology, if you're looking for the 
kind of career that gives you almost immediate opportunities for success, look 
to Intel... you'll find we have a lot in common.
If you are unahle to meet with us, please contact Intel College Relations at the 
location of your choice:
Arizona: 5000 West Williams Field Road. Chandler, AZ 85224 
California: Santa Clara2730 San Tomas Expressway, Santa Clara. CA 95051 
California: Sacramento/Folsom151 Blue Ravine Road, Folsom, CA 95630 
New Mexico: 4100 Sara Road, Rio Rancho. NM 87124 
Oregon: 5200 N.E. Elam Young Parkway. Hillsboro, OR 97124 
Field Sales/Marketing: 3200 Lakeside Drive. Santa Clara. CA 97051
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/HintJ
CAMPUS INTERVIEWS 
February 7,1986
substi
there is a 
f experience.
THK
After youre done with sch<K)l. you face one of the hardest lessons in lifeWithout experience, its tough to get a job. And without a job, its tough to get experience.At The Wall Street Journal, we recognize that experience is something you dont start earning until after you graduate.But while youre waiting, we can give you a head start by providing some of the same competitive advan tages that experience brings.R>r instance, our wide-ranging news coverage gives you a clearer understanding of the whole complex world of business.Our tightly focused feature reporting prepares you for your more specific ambitionswhether in management, accounting, finance, technology, marketing or small business.And our in-depth analysis helps you formulate your ideas in a sharper and more persuasive way.
Call 800-2571200? ext. 899- or mail the couponand start your subscription to The Wall Street i Journal at student savings of up to $44 off the regular subscription price.Thats a pretty generous offer. Especially when you consider what it actually represents. Tuition for the real world.
Hfo subscribe,call800-257-120P 
ext.899tolMree.
h hum 11., i hr \X.4\ Sfitti 3 Humt-ft torf. ,. MAiHniil  IStikI iik-mwar.A Ilk-Wall Sirt-H f<* >*>.' -it *vil i/m ! S-i i i*t fh n gttlut 'uhsf nptt'H pnn 1A ndrew rrodu.' wrrk> ft* ! htvnwnt cr"wIHavD jBill tii.- lau-r 1
< .r;td \Jtsntb V-ai
TheWll Street Journal.Tin daily (limy at flu Atmru wi dnant.
DEBRA ABELL emMmdermatologist
 student disc ount available
 easily accessible b\ bus from CM l
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-0616
MasterCard. Vifxt acaeptrd 
i .all (if)fMjifimctn
MICRO RENTAL SERVICEMicrocomputer Equipment Rental
IBMv ' ' 2; '<>  ' <
BROTHERCOMPAQMRSCOMREXEPSON pSlNOVABEAMQUADRAM.. .* : %
25 Nec monitorPRINCETON'\VV -i v
Discount Suppliesx* ~ TCS. * I4 12 i us 
Daily - Weekly - Monthly 
Phone (412) 487-5226
Precision
Haircut
onlv
*13.00
Complete with shampoo 
& blow style ,1 gua*apteel
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Start at. NO
APPOINTMENTfsjf prccARyNo Appointments
Precision Haircuts custom designed tor the look you want
Designer. just-A-Cut Permonly only
*25.00 $8.00
complete with I haircut only
w grti tirs Pp42pn usave$2.00 
I on the Precision Haircut I| Complete with shampoo ft styling |
L.- ^^1!
(SfoACAT CHPCCTfmms
PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street Across the street from Oakland Post Office
687-3500

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Student Animosity 
Prevents Activities
At times, cooperative endeavors between the 
University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie Mellon 
University result in enormous benefits for both 
schools. Presumably everyone has heard about the 
Pitt-Carnegie Mellon joint acquisition of the Cray 
X-MP/48 computer which further establishes Pitt
sburgh as a major computing center. Both Pitt and 
Carnegie Mellon participate in research at the Pitt
sburgh Cancer Institute, and the schools have a joint 
biomedical research program on nuclear magnetic 
resonance. The Tartan staff itself owes thanks to the 
Pitt News for lending us the equipment which we 
desperately needed over the weekend. Obviously the 
two Universities can work closely together to achieve 
valuable ends. One area in which cooperation bet
ween Pitt and Carnegie Mellon is noticeably lack
ing, however, is in the area of student activits.
Maybe we can blame this absence on the rivalry 
which naturally exists between two schools located 
within such a short distance of one another. But 
aside from proximity, is there any real basis for this 
rivalry? Our football and basketball teams are in 
different divisions, limiting our athletic competi
tions to such sports as soccer, tennis and hockey. This 
difference and the over-riding differences in the size 
and structuring of the Universities renders com
parisons meaningless.
But the differences which nullify serious com
parisons of the schools should not prevent students 
from working together. College students generally 
have common interests, like music. Pitt and 
Carnegie Mellon students could gain considerably 
if they cooperate to pursue these interests. Two 
student-run organizations which should be com
mended are WRCT and WPTS. In the past, these 
similarly progressive radio stations have co
sponsored concerts and are continuing to do so with 
a concert by the Residents scheduled for this 
Wednesday at Graffiti. If students took the queue 
from their radio stations, and worked out a system 
for combining entertainment budgets several times 
each year, Oakland could host top-name concerts.
With some effort, a ticket system could be worked 
out between the schools to account for inequities 
of budget and student population.
Fund-raising for charity is another common pur
suit of college organizations, which could benefit 
from inter-collegiate cooperation. This sort of 
cooperation might be particularly profitable for 
charity drives within the Greek system. Competi
tions between the Pitt and Carnegie Mellon frater
nities, for instance, which combine intellectual and 
physical competitions would be a novelty and would 
attract a significant amount of attention from the 
campuses. This would also channel the sense of 
rivalry between Pitt and Carnegie Mellon students 
in a useful direction.
The Tartan and the Pitt News support interscholastic cooperation. In order to promote this idea 
on a wider scale, the two newpapers maintain 
business ties and are working on further improving 
communication, so that at least some of the poten
tial for exchange of ideas and resources which the 
closeness of these Universities offers may be realized.
It is unfortunate that the students from two 
schools which are situated practically on top of one 
another cannot set aside their differences just 
enough to have some fun.
Letters
Computer availability poses problem
Editor:
Computer availability is 
becoming a problem on campus.
^Macintosh users lost the entire 
Apple Orchard for most of the 
fall semester. IBM users found 
half of the Margaret Morrison PC 
cluster converted to those other 
machines, and word is out that 
nearly a dozen of the UCC cluster 
PCs will be converted to advanc
ed workstations early this 
semester. The reason I am poin
ting out these facts is that 
something can be done to replace 
these lost PCs if enough students 
take the time to express their 
wishes.
Fortunately the Apple Orchard 
has more public access this 
semester due to the fact that the 
core Computing Skills Workshop 
class has fewer sections. I have 
spoken with John Stuckey, who 
designed and runs the course and 
the Apple Orchard, about exten
ding hours of operation, and he 
states that the number of students 
left in the cluster near closing 
time will be monitored to deter
mine if extended hours of opera
tion are necessary. If enough 
students, however, express their 
wishes to have hours extended, 
the matter will be looked into.
Now lets look at the IBM situa
tion. I have also spoken with 
several administration people in
volved with the area of computer 
facilities, and they are willing to 
provide 15 IBM PC's and 15 
Macintoshes with all associated 
wiring and furniture. There are 
two things that stand in their way, 
though. The first is student desire 
for the clusters, i.e., administra
tion doesnt want to put in any 
more clusters if students feel they 
dont need one. The second is a 
suitable location for the cluster(s). 
It would be best if the clusters 
were accessible to all Carnegie
Mellon students, and even nicer 
if we could have 24-hour access 
and a dormitory location for con
venience and late-night security.
Outside of student protests(noisy), riots(messy), and con
ventional war(thousands of lives 
and millions of dollars), there ex
ist few alternatives of tangibly 
voicing your opinions. Thats why 
I have set up at the Skibo Info 
Desk a box of response forms 
(for lack of a better term) contain
ing a yes/no block for the issue of 
additional clusters and space for 
comments (including those about 
24-hour Apple Orchard access). 
Please take the few seconds to fill 
one out and voice your opinions 
one way or another. If you have 
any questions or comments you 
dont want to put on the ballots, 
send me mail at dclq@tb, or cam
pus mail at Box 963 Donner, or 
call me at x5927. Thanks.
Doug Camplejohn
Housing negligence
Editor:
I would like to comment on the 
wiring for the campus computer 
network which was carried out in 
the Hill dorms over the Christmas 
vacation. The Housing Office did 
provide notification that the work 
was going to be done and recom
mended that valuables be taken 
home or put in storage, a 
reasonable precaution. However, 
upon returning from vacation, 
many students including myself 
found their rooms in complete 
disorder. There was cement dust 
everywhere and the contractors 
seemingly made little effort to 
clean up. Items such as posters or 
photographs were removed from 
their places and some students 
had furniture damaged. In addi
tion, some students belongings 
were missing.
As I understand, a large 
number of complaints were made 
to Housing, but no action was 
taken for several days. Compensa
tion for losses was promised but 
has not yet been received. Why 
was there no set policy regarding 
damages or loss? It is simply not 
feasible for every student to 
remove all his belongings or put 
them in storage, and the possibili
ty of such events should have been 
considered. How was the work
supervised? Why were the 
buildings not cleaned after the in
stallation was finished? It seems to 
me that we as resident students 
are entitled to at least some degree 
of consideration which has been 
notably lacking in this instance. 
Finally, I would like to know whv 
The Tartan has not investigated this 
situation already and request that 
it do so. This wiring project is sup
posed to cover the entire campus 
and by acting now perhaps we can 
prevent other such problems in 
the future.
Patrick Woolsey 
MEMS 87
Editors note: The Tartan looked 
into this matter but at the time 
there was no information available.
More than toleration
Editor:
Something needs to be added 
to Eric Rochers opinion column 
Toleration is the Name of the 
Game (published 14 January 
1986). That something is the 
point that differences between 
people are not necessarily bad.
continued on page 23

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 1986The TartanPage 23
Letters continued| Toleration
continued from page 22
They can in fact, be neutral or even
beneficial.
When one recognizes and learns from the 
differences between other people and him 
or herself, that individual becomes that 
much richer. Sometimes differences are 
complementary, too. What makes a good 
1 team is a number of individuals who work 
well together and whose diverse talents make 
the unit much stronger than any one of its 
members.
Peoples goals needs to be a step beyond 
mere tolerance to acceptance of other 
human beings, even with all their dif
ferences. Acceptance regardless of race, 
career, religion, sex, sexual orientation, taste 
in music, or dress. Instead of regarding dif
ferences negatively, think how much can be 
learned when a positive outlook is achiev
ed. Besides, if people were all the same, wed 
have one really boring society. And none of 
this means one has to agree with the dif
ferences. Just accept them.
Finally, I believe there is no reason to be 
intolerant of differences in others when those 
differences do not harm others. It seems 
rather arrogant for one to assume he or she 
is always right and others are wrong when 
they differ. None of us are perfect. It is not 
up to us to judge others, at least not to that 
degree (though we may choose not to spend 
lots of time with a person we cant relate to).
Chris YoungCheating policy 
too anemic
Editor:
In this letter, we would like to discuss the 
problem of cheating at CMU. We have seen 
quite blatant cases of cheating. Some get 
away, some receive a symbolic slap on the 
wrist from the course instructor, some end 
up before the University Committee on 
discipline. Presently rules and procedures 
regarding cheating are fuzzy and randomly 
enforced. Thus, the students attitudes and 
various other things have to change if we 
want to avoid turning out mediocre 
graduates.
Early last fall Dr. James Hoburg sent out 
a memo on cheating to the ECE faculty. In 
the memo, he gave two good reasons why 
cheating is detrimental:
 Unfair to those who dont cheat. The 
honest students become embittered 
toward the school for allowing cheating 
to go on.
 Cheaters come to believe that 
cheating pays and they take this belief 
with them into their careers.
If we define cheating to be plagiarism or 
just the rephrasing of someone elses work, 
we can also add that you learn nothing. 
Students cheat for a variety of reasons: avoid 
a lower grade, raise a grade, immaturity, 
laziness, etc. What most students tend to 
forget in their introspective undergraduate 
environment is that once they have landed 
that first job after graduating, their QPAs 
will matter very little from there on. If they 
cheat their way into a good graduate school, 
they will either be a not-so-good graduate 
f that school or be weeded out by sticky 
Hualifiers. All over CMU grades are em
phasized: financial aid is based partly on 
grades, every semester there is the dean's list 
and everyone wants to graduate with honors, 
"hich also is grade-based. It is not in itself 
"long to emphasize grades, but all too 
seldom it is pointed out to the students that 
heir stay at CMU is probably the best opI)(>itunity th*v will have to learn in their 
"hole lives.
I tesenily. CMl doesn't actively do much 
al,ut cheating. There is a committee on 
1 omrjiituuwhich you don t hear
a whole lot about. The rules on penalties for 
cheating, as stated in the Student Hand
book, are vague. First it is stated that in the 
case of cheating, the instructor may con
sult a departmental committee, if one ex
ists. The Handbook then says that this 
reporting procedure assures that repeated 
offenders will be identified and treated 
severely. In fact, this reporting procedure 
assures nothing. Serious offenses are not 
defined, the departments are not required 
to have a committee on the matter and even 
so, the instructor might choose not to con
sult that committee. In light of this anemic 
policy is it any wonder that, in fact, repeat 
offenders have gotten through and 
graduated without even the department 
heads knowledge?
In the spring of 1984, a large number of 
students were caught cheating on a paper 
on 79-110, Origins of the Modern World. Ac
cording to Dr. Katherine Lynch, the head 
instructor in the course, the first case was 
discovered quite by accident. Further in
vestigations revealed the full extent of the 
problem. In this case, the offenders were 
punished by the book. Altogether, 22 
students failed the course because of 
cheating. Some serious questions still re
main. Why did they cheat? Did they feel that 
their chances of getting caught were slim? 
When 22 out of some 300 students, mostly 
freshmen, flagrantly cheat on a paper which 
they had ample time to prepare, in a not too 
difficult course, then there is something very 
wrong. The course instructors and the 
University Committee on Discipline did their 
job in punishing these students, but what did 
the administration do to follow up? Nothing. 
An incident of this magnitude should serve 
as an excellent opportunity to initiate a cam
paign against cheating. Maybe headlines 
like CMU announces crackdown on 
cheating would tarnish our reputation, but 
a university wide effort must be made before 
the problem gets out of hand. Do we want 
CMU to be known as the cheating school in 
a few years? CMU, the school where pro
blems are solved through study groups and 
files? We would rather take care of our own 
dirty laundry.
Last fall, the Student Sentate Academic 
Affairs Committee wrote an Honor Code, 
which was voted on in the Student Senate 
on October 29. Fortunately, it was voted 
down. We say fortunately because it sav
ed everybody the embarrassment of seeing 
it clobbered in the Faculty Sentate. The 
Honor Code contained equivocal language, 
such as students shall advocate the follow
ing of the honor code. Academic Affairs 
Committee member Brett Whysels state
ment that students would not be guilty if 
they did not turn in the cheater (Tartan, 
Oct. 22) clarified matters, but also added 
to the Codes image as one of the poorest pro
posals put before the Senate. Had the com
mittee talked to leading figures in the 
departments, they would have found little 
support for an honor code so heavily rely
ing on the students virtuous traits.
But that the Honor code didnt pass was 
fortunate not only because it avoided the 
embarrassment of being rejected by the 
faculty. In the case both Student and Faculty. 
Senates had approved it, and the code had 
become part of the student handbook, ad
ditional future action against cheating 
would have been precluded until quite a few 
years from now. The new code would have 
to be given a chance, and meanwhile the 
problem, we believe, would continue to 
grow.
The magnitude of the cases of cheating 
which have surfaced at CMU show that we 
have a severe prolem with cheating. Perhaps 
we should try to take action which cuts down 
the cheating and recognize that there can 
be no Honor Code without honor.
This letter does not try to give any answers 
and as such, its usefulness is limited. We feel 
that - many'.things, are needed, including
more consistent enforcement, alleviating the 
pressure so that students dont feel compell
ed to cheat and in the future, a viable Honor 
Code. There are various ways of achieving 
these objectives and we are prepared to 
discuss them. At this point, we just hope that 
this letter and other actions will lead to at
tention and action by the students and 
faculty.
Juan Leon, ECE 87
Tom Rask, MEMS 87 
Richard Sanzi, ECE 87
Interning: valuable 
experience
Editor:
I would like to compliment Christy 
Casamassima on her recent article on intern
ships. I had a truly invaluable experience in
terning with the Prosecutors Office in 
Washington DC last summer. It is a shame, 
though, that CMU does not offer support for 
these ventures. I was responsible for finding 
my own internship, and dependent on my 
parents for financial support. Most of the 
interns that I met over the summer were in 
one way or another sponsored by their 
schools. The Univeristy of Michigan, for ex
ample, had dozens of interns placed in DC, 
each with a recent graduate as a sponsor. 
The school arranged for their housing, their 
internships, and a variety of programs 
throughout the summer. Other schools (Har
vard, Duke, and Dartmouth, to name a few) 
gave their students stipends to promote their 
involvement in these educational pursuits. 
Internships are an excellent way to gain ex
posure to a particular field of interest, and 
hopefully CMU will begin its own program 
in the near future.
Diana Melamid 
History 86
Academic response 
campaign
Editor:
Tired of complaining about classes v/hen 
you think no one hears? Know about a great 
professor whose style youd like to see im
itated, but dont know who to tell? The place 
to air your criticisms and suggestions on 
campus has always been, up till now, an 
unintentional secret.
The Academic Affairs Committee of Stu
dent Senate is the students liason with the 
faculty and administration. Soon we will be 
running the Academic Response program 
(ARP) campaign in which we ask for obser
vations on courses, teaching, and majors.
So, anytime you have constructive com'ments about anything, please send them to 
Academic Atfairs Committee, c/o Student 
Senate, Skibo Information desk, stop by the 
Student Senate Office, or call any of the 
committee members: Cindy Taylor x5975, 
Robert Bollinger x4270, Myles Greenberg 
x4625, Seth Kaplan x4310, Brett Whysel 
x4474, Cherie Jagerski x5958.
Academic Affairs Committee'
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff 
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in 
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writers address and phone 
number for verification Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan resenes 
th right to condense or reject any letter.
Inquiring Minds 
Really Dont 
Give a Damn
By THE INQUIRING STAFF
Its surprising to realize how many things 
there are that Inquiring Minds really dont 
give a damn about. For example, there is the 
curious green brick on the outside of Don^ ner Hall. It seems to us that
- Donner Halls exterior is in fact 
the remains of CMUs first swim
ming pool. We have even heard 
that if the new athletic center has a pool, 
Donner wrill be getting a new exterior.
Then there is the case of the missing func
tions on the CashStream machines. Accor
ding to the Post-Gazette, most of Mellon 
Banks machines no longer accept deposits 
because it wasnt cost effective. However, we 
feel there might be another reason behind 
the change, at least here. Could it be that 
Warner Hall had the deposit feature remov
ed to eliminate one way of students getting 
rid of excess cash. With the chance of 
depositing ended, students will be forced to 
spend their money, and we all know the 
school has billons and billions of tiny in
nocuous fees to chew up the students dollar. 
Certainly a mystery that inquiring minds 
really shouldnt give a damn about.
Another puzzlement on campus is Doher
ty Hall. Why, for instance, cant you walk 
all the way across the first floor? To get from 
the 1200s to the 1300s, you have to walk 
either up or down a flight of stairs first. We 
all know that college students are notorious 
for being out of shape, could it be a subtle 
idea from Warner Hall to try to give us all 
a little excercise? Perhaps, once where the 
gap is, there used to be a chemistry lab, and 
some over-zealous students had a small ac
cident. A final notion, could Andrew 
Carnegie have demanded, There better be 
at least one covered bridge on campus or else
I give my name to Harvey Mudd instead!
So instead of consigning us to a fate as 
Mellon University, the wise designers built 
Doherty Hall. In any case, out there, 
somewhere is an inquiring mind who does 
not feel it is worth giving a damn over.
One final thought for the week. Can 
anyone explain why women here at CMU do 
not qualify for minority scholarships?
The authors are in favor of penguin lust, 
and that INQUIRING MINDS DONT 
GIVE A DAMN.
theTartan
Editor-in-Chief .............Lisa D. McAnany
Managing Editor .............Olve Peersen
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor .........................Vijay Reddy
Entertainment Editor .... Bruce Kasrel 
Features Editor... Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor...........................Jill Dorson
Photography Editor___... Jack Poller
Art Editor.........................% Mike McHugh
Dossier Eclftor ...............Michele Keane
Ad Manager .....................Celeste Clark
Production Manager .. Albrecht Powell 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter 
Editorial Asst..................Albrecht Powell
Contributing Editors: Karen Gray, Mohan 
Embar.
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2111. Mailing address: 
Skibo 103, Student Activities. Carnegie 
Mellon L'niversity, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
City Theater Company. NUTS by Tom Topor 
is presented through February 16. For ticket in
formation, call 624-4101.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Childrens 
Theatre. The Magic Horn of Charlemagne. A 
heroic story of young Roland, nephew of 
Charlemagne, who seeks to recover the Emperors 
famous sword Durandal from evil Falerine. Set 
against the background of the Middle Ages, this 
play brings the period and its people to life in 
a stirring adventure. Saturdays at 11 a.m. and 
2:30 p.m. and Sundays at 2:30 p.m. through 
March 29.
Open Auditions for Oedipus Rex, Ridge 
Avenue Theater. Open Auditions for the CCAC 
Allegheny Campus spring production of Oedipus 
Rex are scheduled for January 28 and 29 at 7 
p.m. For more information, call the Department 
of Music, Speech, and Theater at 237-2678. 
Canadian Artwork on Exhibit at PPG Place. 
Canada Collects* is an exhibition displaying con
temporary sculptures from the vast collection of 
the Canada Council Art Bank. The sculptures 
can be viewed in the Wintergarden at PPG Place 
through February 5, 9 a.m. to 9 p.m. daily. Ad
mission is free and is sponsored by PPG Place, 
the Public Art Trust and the government of 
Canada.
Marcus Gordon Gallery. Group exhibition of 
new works by Gallery artists, highlighting six new 
etchings by Judy Barie. Other artists in the ex
hibition include Hugh Kepets, Paul Narkiewicz, 
Leslie Golomb, Nancy Hagin, and Carolyn 
Brady. The Gallery is on 416 Craig Street. The
exhibition runs from February 1 through 22. 
Gallery hours are 11 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday 
through Saturday; 11 a.m. to 8 p.m., Thursday. 
Carnegie Institute, Museum of Art Tours. 
Highlight Tours, 15-minute introductory talks on 
a different work each week through February 28,
2 p.m., Tuesday through Sunday. Free with 
museum admission.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History Tours.
Dinosaur Tours, 1/2 hour-tours, slide programs 
and films at 1 p.m., Saturdays, and 2 p.m., Sun
days, through January. Program begins at the 
museums Visitor Center. Free with museum ad
mission. Special Tours, 1/2-hour tours, slide pro
grams, and films on natural history topics at 
noon, Saturdays, and 3 p.m., Sundays, through 
January. Programs begin at the museums Visitor 
Center. Free with museum admission.
Carnegie Museum of Art Special Programs and 
Events. Saturdays at the Museum for Families 
and Friends, is held in the Childrens Room from 
1:30 p.m. to 3 p.m. Advance registration. Call 
622-3214.
Carnegie Museum of Natural History. Nature 
Photography Programs. A variety of classes are 
offered from Basic Photography to Scenic 
Photography. Advance registration. Fees vary. 
Carnegie Institute.Natural World Photographic 
Competition and Exhibition (Changing Exhibits 
Gallery) continues through March 16.
Velar Gallery. Memory 1986. 10 photographers, 
members of the Manchester Craftsmens Guild, 
exhibit their work from February 1 through 29. 
The Velar Gallery is in the lobby of the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration and is open 
to the public 9 a.m. to 5 p.m., Monday through 
Friday.
Hewlett Gallery. Susanne Slavick, associate pro
fessor of art, exhibits oil paintings through 
January 30. The Hewlett Gallery is on the first 
floor of the College of Fine Arts. The gallery is 
open 11 a.m. to 4 p.m., Tuesday through Fri
day; noon to 4 p.m., Saturday; and 1 p.m. to 
4 p.m., Sunday.
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer 
meetings are held at 6 p.m. in the Chapel, Skibo 
Room 39, Monday through Saturday.
Free! Unused brown glass beer bottles by the 
case, 12-oz and quart sizes. Chemistry Office, 
2114 Doherty Hall, X2319
Classifieds
DISTINCTIVE WEDDING INVITATIONS,
ANNOUNCEMENTS, STATIONERY, for all oc
casions. FABULOUS SELECTION, DISCOUNT 
PRICES. 1. R. Stationery shown by appointment.
243-0380.
PREGNANCY RESEARCH. Planning on 
becoming pregnant soon? Take advantage of 
FREE pregnancy testing and fertility awareness 
program. For details, call 647-5202. UNIVER
SITY OF PITTSBURGH SCHOOL OF PUBLIC 
HEALTH.
Shaler house for sale3 BR, 2J4 Bath, Split en
try on level lot, A/C. Many extras. Must see. 
821-1624.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success, PO Box 470CEG, Woodstock, 
IL 60098.
Highway, traffic & street signs. Official. Send
SI for catalogue. De sign Store, PO Box 2781 
Palm Beach, FL 33480.
Counselors, over 19 who like to have fun and I 
make fun at unique overnight boys summer 
camp in Penna. Able to instruct either one of 
following: watersafety, waterskiing, boating, soc 
cer, basketball, arts and crafts, rockclimbing 
riflery, ham radio, rocketry, science, archery 
track, tennis, golf, photography, pioneering, or 
general athletics. Write Camp Director, 138 Red *4 
Rambler Drive, Lafayette Hill, PA 19444.
SHADYSIDE APARTMENT Clean, one 
bedroom, new appliances, microwave oven. One 
block from Walnut St. 344-3637.
STUDY MEDICAL VENIPUNCTURE with
clinical and classroom training conducted by 
Phlebotomy Training Center at CMU campus. 
Short inexpensive course. Call 521-7334.
Looking for female to share lovely apartment. 
Wall-to-wall carpeting, laundry facilities, offstreet parking, walking distance from school, fur
nished. Rent $167.50 per month plus utilities. Call 
682-2869.
NANNYavailable for part/full time position. 
Excellent references. Associates in Child Psych, 
and Development. Day 673-0920, Eve 281-0360 
(Marie).
Miscellaneous
Meddy, dont get bricked in.
Events
28
Tuesday
Movies
The Alexander String Quartet, will perform on 
the Artist in Recital series at the Frick Fine Arts 
Auditorium, University of Pittsburgh at 8:30 
p.m. For free tickets call 624-4126.
Get Out Your Handkerchiefs, 
starring Gerard Depardieu, Patrick Dewaere, and 
Carol Laure. A clever amusing comedy about two 
friends who cannot understand women. Oscar for 
Best Foreign Film. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
p.m. and 9:30 p.m. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Hockey. Penguins vs. Philadelphia at 7:35 p.m. 
in the Civic Arena.
Lectures
President Richard M. Cyerts Office Hours. 
President Cyert holds office hours for students 
between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m., in his office, 602 
Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should call his secretary at 268-2200 to 
set up an appointment.
Department of Metallurgical Engineering and 
Materials Science Staff Seminar. Dr. Iver E. 
Anderson, Naval Research Laboratory, 
Washington, D.C., speaks on High Pressure Gas 
Atomization at 3 p.m. in WEH 7500. Informal 
discussions are held and refreshments are 
available afterwards in WEH 6325.
How to Make Most of Your Summer. Find 
answers to questions like: How do I look for a 
summer job? What are some of the avenues I 
should pursue? How do I find out whats out 
there? and Who do I market myself to? from 
11:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. in Skibo Room 45.
Department of Statistics Presentation: The 
Statistician in Court. Professor Stephen 
Fienberg, Department of Statistics, presents a 
video of a mock trial and leads a discussion for 
students and others interested in applications of 
statistics from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. in the basement 
of Hunt Library.
Students Against Apartheid. Help end CMUs 
participation in Apartheid by attending a 
meeting from 6 p.m. to 7 p.m. in BH 255A.
Wednesday
9Qf Movies
Dona Flor and Her Two 
Husbands, starring Sonia Braga, Jose Wilker, 
and Mauro Mendonca. When the ghost of a 
widows husbi haunts her second marriage, 
humorous and sexual complications result. Very 
funny film. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 p.m. and 
9:30 p.m. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Fencing. Away Game with Penn State-Fayette. 
6:30 p.m.
Mens Basketball. Home Game against Bethany 
College at 8 p.m.
Swimming. Home game against Bethany College 
and St. Francis College at 6 p.m.
Lectures
French Table. The Modem Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every 
Wednesday at noon at the Morewood Cafeteria.
AIESEC. AIESEC, an international, student-run 
business organization, offers a world of ex
perience, both practical and cultural. Meetings 
are held at 4:30 p.m. in Skibo Room 11.
Duquesne University Business Forum. James 
C. Roddey, managing partner of Allegheny 
Media and chairman of the Port Authority Tran
sit of Allegheny County, speaks on En
trepreneurship at 6 p.m. in Duquesnes Rockwell 
Hall, room 101.
Art Department Visiting Artist Series. Painter 
Pat Steir talks about her work at 7 p.m. in WEH 
7500.
Career Decision Making Series. Freshman and 
Sophomore Section. Designed to help you assess 
your interests and abilities, explore current career 
interests as well as new ideas, and form goals and
strategies. Limited enrollment. Sign up at Career 
Services in person, or call x2064. This is a fourweek series that meets January 29, February 5, 
12, and 19.
Independent Job Search. Learn where else to 
distribute your resume using want ads, informal 
contact, address directories, walk-in visits, and 
employment agencies from 11:30 a.m. to 12:30 
p.m. in Skibo room 45.
Forbes Gallery. Featuring Stephanie Hooton, 
Emily Wang, and Nancy Tague exhibit their 
work through February 9. The exhibit opening 
is from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. Gallery Hours are 11 
a.m. to 6 p.m., Wednesday through Friday, and 
noon to 5 p.m., Saturday and Sunday.
Thursday
QAI I Movies
Being There, starring Peter 
Sellers, Shirley MacLaine, and Melvyn Douglas 
(Oscar Winner). Off-beat comedy about a dimwitted servant who rises in the world because of 
his ignorance. Fine performances throughout. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 p.m. and 9:45 p.m. 
Admission $2.95.
Gentlemen Prefer Blonds, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210, 6 p.m. Admission $1.00.
Seven Year Itch, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210, 8 p.m. Admission $1.00.
Bus Stop, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210, 10 
p.m. Admission $1.00.
Sports
Womens Basketball. Home game against 
Bethany College at 7 p.m.
Lectures
Bioengineering Graduate Program Seminar.
Professor Alan S. Waggoner, Associate Professor, 
Biological Sciences, speaks on Adaptative Con
trol of Drug Infusion at 12:30 p.m. in DH 1102. 
A light lunch is served at noon prior to the 
seminar and a question-and-answer session 
follows.
Seminar. The videotape of An Introduction to 
Objectivism, a lecture by Dr. Leonard Peikoff 
of Thomas Jefferson School of Philosophy, 
Politics, and Psychology, is shown at 8 p.m. in 
the Adamson Wing.
Food for Thought: The Collections of Carnegie 
Institute, Carnegie Institute conducts a joint tour 
program with Museum of Art and Museum of 
Natural History docents. This program is in 
honor of Andrew Carnegies 150th birthday and 
begins in the Music Hall Foyer and moves 
throughout both Museums with a stop at The 
Museum Cafe for lunch. The tour runs from 
10:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. The fee (including lunch) 
is $13.50, for Carnegie Institute members, Senior 
Citizens, and students; and $15, for non
members. For more information, call 622-3218.
Museum of Art Special Programs aad 
Events. Parent/Child ARTexpress provides week
ly activities for adults and children from 10 a.m. 
to 11:30 a.m. every Thursday. Advance registra
tion. For more information call 622-3241. 
German Table. The Modem Languages Pro
gram sponsors a German Language table at noon 
in the Morewood Cafeteria.
Slide Program. The program describes a threeweek camping, canoeing and kayaking trip which 
explored the national parks of Alaska during July 
1985. This program is open to the public and is 
held at the Pittsburgh Council of the American 
Youth Hostels headquarters in Mellon Park 
Shadyside. For more information, call 362-8181
Club
CMU Explorers Club. If youre interested in 
rock climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, 
come to a meeting at 6:30 pm. in Skibo Room 
12. Trips every weekend. Beginners are welcome.
-14 days

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 1986The TartanPage 25
Friday
o 1^ I Movies
JL The Best of Warner Brothers 
CartoonsPart 1, starring Bugs Bunny and the 
gang in this collection of excellent cartoons. This part includes Rabbit of Seville and Duck Dodger in the 24 1/2 Century. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 p.m., 9:30 p.m., and 11:30 p.m. 
Admission $2.95.
Patton (1970). 8 p.m. in the Museum of Art 
Theater.
F.W. Murnaus Nosferatus A Symphony of 
Terror, A new Talking Video Version by John 
Kirch is sponsored by Pittsburgh Filmmakers. This version features the voices of Bill Flanagan, Mary Robb-Jackson, Steve Talbot and A1 Julius 
and is presented by John Kirch in person. Also 
presented is The Case of the Missing Cases. The 
Media Arts Center, 205 Oakland Avenue, 8 p.m. 
and 10 p.m. Donation $3.
Fright Night, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 
at 6 p.m., 8:30 p.m., and 11 p.m. Admission 
$1.00. Sports
Swimming. Away meet against Gannon College 
and Hiram College, at Hiram at 2 p.m.
Womens Basketball. Away game against Grove 
City College at noon.
Soccer. Spirit vs. Dallas at 8:05 p.m. at the Civic 
Arena.
Lectures
SUPA Lecture Series. Mary Reilly, Vice Presi
dent and Manager of Housing Finance at Mellon 
Bank, speaks on Capital Markets: Another 
Perspective of Private Sector Roles." She also ad
dresses the possible impacts of the tax reform bill 
on the capital market at 3:30 in the Wherrett 
Room.
Carnegie-Mellon Symphony Orchestra. The
graduate student conductors concert is at 8 p.m. 
in Alumni Concert Hall, College of Fine Arts.
Carnegie-Mellon Brass Band Concert. The
Brass Band Concert is conducted by Keith 
Lockhart performs at 8 p.m. in the Alumni Con
cert Hall, College of Fine Arts.
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 p.m. in Skibo Room 12.
Monday
Saturday
1
 Movies
Ladyhawke, starring Rutger Hauer, 
Matthew Broderick, and Michelle Pfeiffer. 
Visually fine medieval romance about a knight 
and his lady. Pittsburgh Playhouse. 7:30 p.m., 
9:40 p.m. and 11:50 p.m. Admission $2.95.
Rambo: First Blood Part II, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 p.m., 8 p.m., 10 p.m., and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Q* Movies
Gimme Shelter, starring The Rolling 
Stones and Jefferson Airplane. Fine documentary 
of the Stones in concert climaxing with the Altamont, California concert that resulted in murder. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 p.m. and 9:30 p.m. 
Admission $2.95.
Art History Film Series: French Romanticists,
Theorore Gricault and Eugene Delacroix 
are shown at the King Estate at 7:30 p.m. 
Lectures
Using The Career Services Library 
For...Career Exploration. Supplement your 
academic knowledge and learn real world in
formation about career options from 4:30 p.m. 
to 5:30 p.m. in the Career Service Library in the 
CS&P office, WH 19.
Sunday
9X Movies
mmm My Fair Lady, Audrey Hepburn, Rex 
Harrison, Stanley Holloway, and Wilfred HydeWhite. A musical treat that is absolutely lover
ly to the eyes and ears. Winner of many Oscars 
including Best Film. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
p.m. Admission $2.95.
The Adventures of Buckaroo Bonzai, sponsored 
by AB Films. DH 2210 at 6 p.m., 8 p.m., 10 
p.m., and midnight. Admission $1.00. 
Lectures
Black History Month Film Series. Tribute to 
Oscar Micheaux: Pearl Bowser speaks and 
Body and Soul, Scar of Shame, and Under
world are screened at 7 p.m. in the Skibo 
Ballroom.
Sports
Fencing. Home game against California Univer
sity and Allegheny College. 11 a.m.
We at The Tartan wish 
to express our thanks to 
Mr. and Mrs. Powell for 
their generosity. It 
makes our Sundays 
almost bearable. With 
the utmost gratitude, we 
thank you very much.
The Tartan Staff
0=0=0 Mac Upgrades! (Q) 512K for $195
 Hightest quantity
 Fast turnaround
 120 day warranty
 Free software
 Levco dealer
 Call 683-6244(L
KAMQUESTSYSTEMS
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center................268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., a recorded message tells how to reach the staff 
member on call.
- j 0 t ... 
CONTACT Pittsburgh................... .........................................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection..............................................................................854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel-Aid................................................................................................. 281-4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory. 
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.
25X DISCOUNT 
ON AN 
PERSONAL COMPUTER
TO ALL CARNEGIE MELLON 
STUDENTS & 
FACULTY
GET YOUR HANDS ON THE MOST 
TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED PERSONAL 
COMPUTER IN ITS CLASS 
BY CALLING
BAS I C 
COMPUTER 
S Y STEMS
(412) 342-5505 COLLECT
9 to 5 M-F
.... '>i|j I -4-r'H4! vi#..-ate
CMU 
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MM: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any
TOPS System.
PRICE REDUCTIONS !
The Prices of the following products have been reduced at the CMU Computer Store:
"Old Style IBM PC
- 64k Motherboard $650.00
Megamax C Compiler 125.00
Wordmark 125.00
OmniReader 295.00
Mac Carrying Cases 49.95
Sritek 68000 Coprocessor 200.00 
NEC Tractor Feed 50.00
While Supplies Last!

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh & Co
"Poor, poor H&Ao, Uas, 
rteoe-c ecx^eAV ex UAvoppe^....PI HeR5! 
ijHAT -me he cl me
VDU C-*)tU\A TX) 
tflBOUT IT !???.'
The Top Floor
i'm lmiSNIFEA CHi Omi TFRH 'BU\oU' SNIFF EACH OTHER'S 
BUTTS ANO \ou UCK Yovmw 
OWN YOUKNOW-WHSREW ^12%^
I SHOULD WRITE A NEWSPAPER ARTICLE ABOUT THE DIS6U5TING 
UKIENE OF DOGS...
Poindexter by Don Beyer
NA<H... ft' Mope
Ut^e SjpMpiM^
^ w*n4ony 6in^
L t, FPOKi
SCMtfOG? TU'? SOTOM
ril w CsM
-7. N\CX)c^ JMJO
i ** y
ye ytxi to Hit
TOMTfc 7
I NiOT.
 )0Ni'T
THl^l1 
L Motley.
Comics In The News
Carnegie Men?WE WANT MORE COMIC STRIPS!!!!
Can you draw? Are you funny? If you can do either 
one of these things, you may have what it takes 
to do a comic strip for the Tartan. We are looking 
to greatly increase the number of student produc
ed strips in our funnies section. If you are interested 
in writing and/or drawing a strip, come to the Tar
tan Art Staff meeting Wednesday at 6 p.m. in the 
Tartan main offices.
illustration by Nabil Liumang

---------------------------------------------------

January 28, 1986The TartanPage 27
by Nabil Liumang
THE GREAT MAESTRO STEP5 UP 
AND 15 READY TO BEGIN HIS 
MOST RENOWNED CONCERTO
SUCH (MOVEMENT SUCH 
VIRTUOSITY.THE AUDIENCE 
15 STUNNED. AND THEN 
CAME THE BREATHWING 
F(NAL.
Carnegie Mellon Apathy Club*s first meeting 
cancelled due to lack of interest
The Digressional by Seth Eliot Choice & Mike McHugh Inkspotsby Kurt Shaw
jri-TS
uwStnem5MEP / smewF/mm Tart nS fm."
AN GUN? .' irs AN BCANP' ir A *6 !6UW 'rrs~. rr's...
veu..'nm so fwie N sf tmiNoemss sorte atem -mis NnfNEn . anse, tdoflsrmeessop r... mu. aEfwvftHowea 7..wePPlFTBP FOP PPtYS.. weeKs.oecApes.i JntdTKflCK ..
MHWNOFtiOP.HO mBK...WT, THANK 600, we pfPHmoNZTHING*.
rrs(PLUMSISLANP
-rmte
on, me Hem-'/ 'OFTEN I HAP/ v 'PROtWOep/ IT'S.. CHPISTMAS 'Frnp. / tEnr--- i seePPEAPS./ SNOW . COOL,WONPtPFU SNOW...
aEX mepe.THepe's tKawJJSHePHFKP... SHF'S WFAPIN6 ONLY... CHPIiTMAS STOCKINGS.. T...IMpupem ice nE net tvnsJfSft____ .. v vlf NecK...
"ne wtJaEX nS peoptf NvnKAUZB THATwAMi vice'IS 6APBAU "
L00KTT Th/s ePTSOPe .. Hem's rvadtvwtEaNh---m iNHire CTmp wm -me ivhtdvS raJet vpm sone NJ yW JVST svxe HIS OUN ANP SAYS TO Hep ...OCT PBAPY fOP THIS - He SAYS, 'HPY..r ^ MAJOR L ^ UNCOOL 
BOY ' mtHNe Pnese FBcPie vaf k? CM UNFmeCTSP AMONO THFPeST OF US WHOeEnr oerrep /
excusemWHAT ISLANP IS THIS ?
mrr?ON.POHNEP' ON, BLTTzeN '.TWTS PlALOOUe * HP, ' rrs 0AP8AC-* STYLUtP OAPPAOt ' bAPBAbe 'MPBtoe ' MVAM '
Hey..mmIACOOL
ANMAUtmC LAXJVmwett ' PiPPEMP tM.y MM 0#Rwmj*Ubouter *
iNFAcr. wve nip Me NtNe TIMES ' IN FACT. WiC PFAPTHAT MAbAZM HINe nines ' IN FACT.I PON T WANT TO H6AP APOVTTaEh muuvs new lalK even . one mope vmt"if <d'
eveMWLY,/SAVAOe / SAYS MPEPOtf/ HCPE THAT ser IN. ./ JANE PAUU Y 'S PPEONANT
we. we. iaEd HeiP ouPsemes.MN AAE LOATHSOME BUTrvhE we see tKJKftdDf u!uoNe's MPY-ueAr ttePCOMe wrm..rwdv---
"THE LAND OFfafiaJ ShNwEwtdt rvn secPtrriY pp) seefCAxer
DPFATHeP is A SPACE AUEN.
ANDWHATSTPANbeLANDISTHIS *
BLOOM COUNTY B Student Dormitory Council by Berke Breathed

---------------------------------------------------

THISTLE
YEARBOOKSALE
"Ahbht things tie's * wise ou. ear Mcwiak
WHERE: Skibo Grey Matter 
WHEN: THIS WEEK 9 am - 5 pm
ONLY $18.00
DONT WAIT ANY LONGER
Funded by Student Activities Fee.
