Volume 81, Number 7 Carnegie Mellon University October 28,1986
The Bangles ... Up Close and Perirmi .___ /O
Super Scammers Swarm StjSchal 1
Special Collections University Librar 
CMU
Water Main Break Floods More wood
Water lifted this concrete slab and flooded the surrounding area after a 
major water main broke last Thursday outside the Health Center behind 
Morewood Gardens.
Cyert on Condition of CMU
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor
On Wednesday, October 22, Preside^ 
Cyert gave his annual address on the status 
of the University to Carnegie Mellon 
faculty, and presented the 1986 teaching 
awards.
Recipiants of the William H. and Frances
S. Ryan Teaching Award were Chemical 
Engineering professor Edmond Ko and 
History professor Ludwig Schaefer. Ko was 
honored for his "outstanding skills in 
organization and communication," after 
having received "uniformly excellent ratings 
in courses from the freshman to Ph.D. 
level." John Modell, head of the history 
department, was quoted as crediting Schaefer 
with having "sponsored and unprecendented 
array of history courses...the calm, critical, 
always constructive role he's taken has been 
a model for the liberal arts foundation 
provided by H&SS." Both men were 
presented with checks and certificates of their 
achievement. 1986 College Award Winners 
were William Brown (MCS), Jaime 
Carbonell (CS), Srikant Datar (GSIA), 
Wilpen Gorr (SUPA), Ko, Schaefer, and 
Mary Widener (CFA). Cyert cites the 
establishment of prizes for "educational 
innovation to recognize contributions to 
education through teaching methods, 
instruments, and curriculum; and to 
stimulate creative thinking in and out of the 
classroom."
Cyert credited Ted Fenton and the 
Teaching Center for improved teaching 
University-wide, and claimed that "we are a 
warmer place for students than we once 
were." His only complaint concerning 
faculty was that "clearly, our most difficult 
Problems are with those [teachers! who have
tenure and aren't willing to re-evaluate their 
teaching."
Cyert also reminded faculty members to 
contribute to the United Way drive. $46,841 
was raised last year, a 16% increase over the 
previous year. He mentioned the fact that 
CMU gets research money from the United 
Way.
Fred Rogers, VP for Business Affairs, gave 
the financial report for the fiscal year ending 
June 30, 1986., which Cyert called the "best 
year in our history, financially." Total 
revenue increased by 23% from the 84-85 
year to $206,023,000; of that figure, tuition 
is up 20% ($63,758,000), sponsored research 
is up 22.9% ($79,076,000), and student aid 
is up 16.1% ($12,279,000). The surplus, 
however, dropped 1.2% to $80,000. The 
most significant factors in the revenue 
change were the purchase of the Bureau of 
Mines (at a cost of approximately $6 
million), and the termination of Mellon 
Institute's retirement plan, valued at $4 
million, which Rogers claimed was 
"overfunded to begin with."
Rogers called sponsered research the 
"driving engine of the University," and said 
he expects it to increase faster than other 
revenue sources. Tuition currently accounts 
for 31% of CMU's revenue; research makes 
up 39.2%, and has "more than doubled since 
1982."
The $181,494,000 worth of expenditures 
for the year were broken down as follows: 
34% for internal and departmental research, 
33.2% for sponsored research, 5.5% for 
student aid, and the remaining 27.3% going 
to maintenance, renovation and grounds 
upkeep, and various other projects. Capital 
investments totaled $13,012,000 for 
continued on page 7
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
On Thursday, October 23, there was a 
major water main break near the rear entrance 
of the health center at Morewood Gardens. 
At around 12:30 pm, an 8-inch main water 
feed line that supplies E-tower of Morewood 
broke sending hundreds of gallons of water 
up through the sidewalk. Water quickly 
lifted the sidewalk and began to flood the 
area.
Physical Plant was quickly on the scene 
and able to supply water to the building by 
running a by-pass from the other four 
towers. Of paramount concern was the 
switch gear and the mechanical equipment in 
the basement of the building and two large 
electrical transformers located below ground 
adjacent to the main break. The power was 
rapidly turned off to alleviate any possible 
electrical hazzards and the building was 
evacuated due to the lack of electricity. It 
was deemed necessary to notify the city of 
Pittsburgh Water Department and Duquesne 
Light.
Water quickly began to flood the Child Care 
Center, the basement of Morewood, and the 
surrounding area. All available Campus 
police, traffic control units, and the 
Pittsburgh Fire Department responded and 
cordoned off the area.
It was rumored at the site that the 
transformers had the potential for shorting 
out and possibly causing an explosion so 
people were kept far from the area. Neil 
Binstock, Director of Administration, 
Physical Plant, said, that the question was 
raised to Duquesne light, and they stated 
there was no danger of explosion since they 
were all weather outdoor transformers.
At around 3:00 pm the situation was 
deemed safe and the residents were permitted 
back into the dormitory. A fire watch was 
established due to the fire system being shut 
down but there were no problems. 
Electricity was restored to E-tower by sunset 
after the switch gear equipment was 
thoroughly cleaned and tested.
photo by Albrecht 1. Powell
Residents of the first floor 
apartments in Morewood Gardens 
were faced with quite a predicament 
after extensive flooding around the 
dorm.
"The response time of all people involved 
and the way the situation was handled was 
excellent", according to Binstock. He added, 
"it was truly a team effort."
The only real problem they seemed to 
have was getting the pumps working to 
alleviate some of the flooding. It took over 
30 minutes before anyone could get them 
started and working.
Damage was considered extensive according 
to campus security. The Child Care Center 
was under about 10 inches of water and will 
need new carpeting and some minor work 
inside. It is currently back in operation. 
The health center, apartments, basement and 
transformer room all sustained relatively 
minor damage.
photo by Andy Gillespie
President Cyert congratulates Edmond Ko and Ludwig Schaefer on winning 
the 1986 Teaching Award

---------------------------------------------------

World
News
SUNDAY THROUGH THURSDAY -7-10 mm.
PM 126 ACALCULUS
PNbi.M.iq
ACADflMIC WMTM0 MOSLEMS HNAMOAIACCOUHTW
MIRO. TO COMPUTINO
PH 126 
PH126C 
PH125S 
PH 2261
IDEA POWER.
There is no army on earth, wrote Victor Hugo, that can resist the power of an idea whose time has arrived.At Northern Telecom, our ideas and the people who create them are the force behind our leading edge technology, the force that creates the right ideas at the right time, that generates our continued success in todays marketplace.As the worlds largest supplier of fully digital telecommunication systems, we have opportunities in Engineering, Computer Science, Marketing, Accounting/Finance, Business Systems and Human Resources.
A representative from our Headquarter in Nashville, IN will be on your campus Tuesday, November 4, 1986. Consult your placement office to determine the specific degrees/majors that we have requested for our interview schedule. Specific addresses of the 15 Northern Telecom facilities in the U.S. may be obtained from your campus placement office. We are an equal opportunity employer m/f/h/v.
Build Your Career in Communications.
Page 2The TartanOctober 28, 1986
Hasenfus on Trial
Eugene Hasenfus is not a terrorist, and he 
didn't violate national security, according to 
his Nicaraguan lawyer. The lawyer also 
charges that the tribunal judging Hasenfus 
"lacks impartiality" and has no authority 
because it was not appointed by Nicaragua's 
Supreme Court. Former US Attorney 
General Griffin Bell is now in Nicaragua, 
assisting in the defense of Hasenfus  who 
survived the crash of a cargo plane,carrying 
rebel supplies.
"Humanitarian" Aid 
bought Weapons in 
Nicaragua
Sources say a Nicaraguan rebel group 
diverted 15-thousand dollars of US aid 
earmarked as "non-lethal" to buy 
ammunition. Congressional and
administration officials say the discovery  
contained in a draft report by the General 
Accounting Office  is the first conclusive 
evidence that some of the 27 million-dollar 
humanitarian" aid for the contras was being 
channeled into the military supplies.
South Africans Riot 
over Presidents Death
Thousands of rioting youths tossed 
firebombs and stones in Zimbabwe's capital 
of Harare today, alleging South African 
involvement in the plane crash that killed 
Mozambique President Samora Machel. 
Among the targets hit by the mob: a South 
African Airways office and the US Embassy.
Yep, the Ozone Layer 
is Still Disappearing
Scientists say they don't think nature is 
causing the earth's ozone layer to disappear 
over the South Pole  a chemical process 
probably is, but they aren't ready to blame
National
News
And a Day Without 
Orange Juice is like a 
Day Without Sunshine
A vote for a Republican Senate candidate is 
a vote for Ronald Reagan. That's the 
message the President is telling voters 
during a two-day, four-state campaign swing
News blurbs appear courtesy of the 
Associated Press
man-made chemicals yet. Researchers are 
investigating what has caused a hole in the 
protective layer  necessary to support life 
as we know it. The Antarctic discovery is 
the first concrete evidence of damage despite 
more than a decade of warnings from 
scientists. Another study says the same 
thing may be happening at the North Pole.
Wonder What Judge 
Wappner Would Say 
About Them...
(BERLIN)  West Berlin justice officials 
have decided against prosecuting members of 
the Nazi's infamous "people's court," which 
sentenced more than five-thousand people to 
death during the Third Reich.
The Justice Ministry in West Berlin says 
the investigation was closed because the 
surviving officials of the Nazi court are too 
old or sick for the trial.
That means none will be charged for the 
Nazi crimes in West Berlin. Technically, 
another criminal investigation could be 
opened against them in West Germany, 
although that's considered unlikely.
A Ministry spokesman says about 20 
judges and prosecutors who ran the court are 
still living in West Germany. Only one of 
the court's 577 former officials has been 
sentenced to prison, and that was during the 
Allied Powers' Nuremburg war crimes trials 
in 1947.
No Wrest German legal judgement has ever 
been entered against the court as a whole.
for Republican candidates. At a rally in 
Oklahoma, President Reagan told voters 
Liberals held back the tough anti-crime bills 
his administration had fought for to curb 
drug abuse.
Have vinz 
seen dis man?
Tarian r Prowon Staff 
by Dnuak&m only
Scranton Goes to Erie
Republican gubernatorial candidate William 
Scranton yesterday made his 13th trip to Erie 
in less than nine months, hoping to woo the 
Democrats, Independents and undecided 
voters to the GOP ticket. With less than two 
weeks to go in the election, and the final 
public debate out of the way, Scranton and 
Democratic challenger Robert Casey and 
their aides say the campaigns will try to 
attract the 13 to 16 percent of the voters who 
have told pollsters they are undecided. Casey 
campaigned yesterday in Philadelphia's 
suburbs, where Republicans usually 
outperform the Democrats in statewide 
elections. Scranton started the day in 
Philadelphia and also made stops in Lebanon 
and Dauphin counties, where he attended 
Republican party dinners.
Edgar cashes in on JFK
Democrat Bob Edgar found his Senate 
campaign 40-thousand dollars richer 1 
yesterday after fund-raising appearances on 
his behalf by Democrat Senator Edward 
Kennedy. Kennedy said in speeches in Erie, f 
Johnstown and Wilkes-Barre that this 
election reminded him of his brother John's 
1960 presidential contest. He accused the 
GOP of pushing "false prosperity." Later, 
Edgar flew to Pittsburgh where he and first1 
term Republican incumbent Arlen Specter 
met Friday, the 24th, for a joint interview 
with the editorial board of the Pittsburgh . 
Post-Gazette. Taking up the abortion 
question, Specter said in Scranton that he is 
personally opposed to abortion but would 
not vote for legislation to outlaw it because 
the choice should be up to the individual.
Pitt Police Protect 
Protest
PITTSBURGHA spokesman at Pitt says 
University police are protecting an anti| 
apartheid protest against possible vandalism. 
Spokesman Vince Gagetta says protesters 
built a 6' x 6' shack yesterday to symbolize 
the living conditions of many South African 
blacks. Fifteen students plan to stay in the d 
shack in shifts. Protesters say they are 
unsatisfied with the University's anti| 
apartheid policy. University trustees refuse 
to invest in companies which dont follow 
the "Sullivan Principles" of equal treatment 
for blacks and whites. Universtiy officials j 
say that over the past two years, it has sold 
investments worth 7.5 million dollars in 
companies not following the principles 
closely.
Yeah, but they still 
have to look at 
Newark...
WASHINGTONThe Transportation 
Department gave final approval today to the 
purchase of People Express Airlines by 
Texas Air. The approval clears the way for 
creation of the country's largest airline 
company. The Department said it gave swift 
approval for Texas Air to buy People 
Express and the remaining assets of Frontier 
Airlines, a People Express subsidiary that 
shut down last summer because of the lowcost carrier's "extremely precarious financial 
condition."
Texas Air already owns Continental 
Airlines and New York Air and is in the 
process of merging with Eastern Airlines. 
Altogether, industry officials estimate that 
the Houston-based airline company will have 
nearly-20% of the domestic airline market 
once the People express deal is completed.
Here, let me help you 
break in that VISA card...
Six supporters of political extremist 
Lyndon Larouche have pleaded innocent in 
Boston in connection with an alleged credit 
card fraud scheme. Ten people in all are 
charged with helping finance Larouche's 
longshot presidential bids with one million 
dollars in phony credit card billings. 
Officials say the four other defendants remai n 
fugitives. Larouche and his supporters claim 
investigations into his organization are 
attempts to deny their constitutional rights.
IBM and GM Sell S. 
Africa Divisions
IBM is selling its South African subsidiary 
because of what the company calls the 
"deteriorating political and economic 
situation" there. General Motors announced 
earlier it's selling its South African 
operations for the same reasons.

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1986The TartanPage 3
SAMS Prepares for BanglesDuquesne Plans History Forum
(PITTSBURGH)  More than 130 
professional historians from across the 
United States will participate in the 20th 
Annual Duquesne University History 
Forum at the Westin William Penn Hotel 
Oct. 29-31.
The keynote speech will be delivered by 
Stephan Themstrom, Winthrop Professor 
of History at Harvard University. 
Themstrom, a specialist in American 
social, urban and ethnic history, will 
speak on "The Melting Pot in a 
Comparative Perspective: Assimilation 
and Pluralism in the U.S. and the
U.S.S.R." on Thursday, Oct. 30, at 8:30 
p.m. in the Duquesne Room of the 
Duquesne University Union.
This year's program includes 104 
presentations on subjects ranging from 
the classical world to post-World War 
Two developments, with heavy emphasis 
on the U.S. history and modem Europe.
All sessions of the forum are open to 
the public. For more information or a 
calender of presentations, call Dr. Bernard 
Weiss, History Forum director, at 434- 
6479 or 434-6470.
Two SUPA Professors Honored, Titled
By JEAN COOKSEY
Tartan Staffwriter
Extensive promotion for the MTV 
Bangles concert to benefit the Carnegie 
Mellon chapter of Students Against Multiple 
Sclerosis (SAMS) began this week in two 
local media: B94 FM and Rock World, the 
campus music video show.
B94 FM and TCI Cable helped to 
advertise the concert through a free ticket 
give-away to people who call the station 
during certain hours. There are 26 pairs of 
tickets in total, with the grand-prize winners 
receiving backstage passes, a limousine ride 
to and from the concert, and a chance to meet 
the MTV VJ Mark Goodman and the 
Bangles.
CMU is also receiving publicity on the 
campus music video show, Rock World.. 
The show's host, Dave Lee, will publicly 
congratulate last year's Co-Chairs Faramarz 
"Mouse" Shargh and Rich Miller on their 
efforts, and mention the continuing work of 
SAMS under current Chairman Marcus 
Muster and Vice-Chairman Joe Boltz.
The concert festivities will begin at 8p.m. 
tomorrow night. Rich Miller will speak at 
the concert, and Mark Goodman, of MTV, 
will host the show. The concert will open 
with an air band performance by Jeff Muller, 
a CMU graduate and Delta Upsilon alumnus, 
and all members of his original band the 
Time. They will lip-synch "The Bird," the 
song which won them fame last year. Also 
expected is the Rock Alike national winner
Dave Tarabocchia, of Creighton, who will 
perform his imitation of Kenny Loggins' 
"Footloose."
SAMS is involved in another musicoriented fundand awareness-raiser 
immediately following the concert event. 
Pittsburgh is one of eight national 
participants in the marketing of a new video 
tape called "Closet Classics," distributed 
jointly by MTV, Fuji, and Vestron Video. 
The tape will premier on Thursday, October 
30, at the area club Confetti's, between 
8:00p.m. and 11:30p.m. Goodman and Joe 
Cline will host the event. Proceeds from the 
party will go to the SAMS program. 
People are encouraged to dress like their 
favorite "closet" rock artist, to the support 
the theme. Some classic artists appearing in 
the video include Jimi Hendrix, the Grateful 
Dead, and the Monkees.
The campus extension of the "Closet 
Classics" event will involve a contest, also 
run by SAMS. Grand prizes include the 
"Closet Classics Tour for Two" trip to Los 
Angeles and New York for seven days. The 
trip includes hotel accomodations, limousine 
service, and V.I.P. admission to area rock 
clubs. Other prizes include a tour of the 
MTV studios, a GE videocassette deck and 
$2500 in cash.
Members of SAMS should check their 
mailboxes for the details on the next 
meeting. Others interested can locate the 
date, time, and place of the next meeting at 
the Skibo Information Desk.
PITTSBURGHTwo nationally known 
professors at Carnegie Mellon University's 
School of Urban and Public Affairs have 
been honored with the title Distinguished 
Public Service Professor.
Ben Fischer and Donald Stone were given 
the new academic titles "in recognition of the 
contributions which persons with years of 
high level experience can make in educating 
students for managerial and policy-making 
responsibilities," said Alfred Blumstein, dean 
of the school.
"Even though both are past tradtional 
retirement age, Fischer and Stone are among 
the hardest workers in the school. Our 
students are fortunate to have as teachers two 
men who played major roles in the important 
events of their day," Blumstein added.
Fischer is director of the University's 
Center for Labor Studies, which was 
established in 1982 to do research, develop 
policy, and promote dialogue in the fields of 
labor relations, human resource management 
and manpower policy. His new title is 
Distinguished Public Service Professor of 
Labor Relations and Public Policy.
Stone has taught graduate courses in 
administrative and intergovernmental 
management at Carnegie Mellon since 1973. 
His new title, Distinguished Public Service 
Professor of Public Management, recognizes 
his long career as a public administrator, 
consultant, educator and author, and his 
current role as professor and director of the 
national Coalition to Improve Management 
in State and Local Government.
The Original Hot Dog Shop
Lowest Prices on Cold 6 Packs In Oakland !
6 PACKS IMPORTS 40oz BOTTLES
BLACK LABEL l6oz' $2.25 BECKS 12oz 54.65 BUD 40oz $1.30
IC LIGHT l6oz $2.50 M00SEHEAD 12oz $3.80 SCHLITZ MALT 40oz $1.50
ROLLING ROCK l6oz $2.75 ST. PAULI GIRL 12oz $4.55 COOLERS
BLATZ l6oz $2.25 with the purchase of 5 imports of ip prjATFR n a Vi
ELEPHANT MALT LIQUAR 12oz $4.69 the same price you receive 6. Z 'Y PASSION PUNCH 40oz $2.25
Try our delicious Vi Lb. hamburgers, Ground fresh before 
you eyes and our fresh fries 12 ton sold per week. 
There must be a Reason.
Open Sun. - Thurs. 9 am - 4:30 am Fri. & Sat. 9 am - 6 am
THE TOP OF THE O"
Open 11 - 2 AM

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 28, 1986
Angry Professors Book Challenges Drama Department
By AMY STEVENSON
Tartan Staffwriter
Camegie-Mellon Drama professor James L. 
Rosenberg and his wife Dorothy have just 
published a book Academic Freedom Be 
Damned: CMU on Trial elaborating on his 
five year battle with the administration of 
CFA. The Rosenbergs' book attacks the 
administrative policies and theories of CFA 
Dean Akram Midani, Head of the Drama 
Dept. Mel Shapiro, and President Richard 
Cyert. The book goes on to question CMU's 
dedication to being "The Professional 
Choice", stating that this destroys the true 
purpose of education.
Rosenberg's battle began in 1981. Prior to 
that time, he was considered a favorite of the 
CFA administration. Shapiro had just been 
named Head of the Drama Department. He 
promised to devote more time and money to 
the playwriting program, Rosenberg's 
academic forte. Shapiro put Rosenberg and a 
man Rosenberg calls "Dan Baxter" in charge 
of the New Playwrights Festival II. 
Rosenberg and Baxter were to keep order and 
advise the student directors, playwrights and 
performers. Shapiro initially agreed with 
Rosenberg and Baxter's decision to produce 
all entries on the grounds that this was an 
educational experience, not a professional 
competition.
Almost immediately, however, Shapiro 
proved to be uncooperative. Both Shapiro 
and Midani sent memos to Rosenberg 
criticizing the plays as unprofessional. 
Rosenberg received no other feedback until 
just before the conclusion of the festival. 
Shapiro, supported by Midani, announced no 
script deserved the first prize of $2500. The 
awards ceremonies were cancelled and the 
three top plays were given consolation prizes 
of $1000. In his book, Rosenberg calls this 
"an unwarranted and public slap in the face 
to the student's talents and to my own and 
Baxter's teaching abilities."
This incident caused Professor Rosenberg 
to go public with his grievances with an 
"open letter" to Shapiro and an article in 
Focus, the faculty newspaper. Rosenberg 
commented in Focus that CMU acting 
students were "hired mercenaries brought in 
to train as pre-professionals for the sole 
purpose of bringing PR and glory and maybe 
a few megabucks to the good old 
institution."
In April of 1982, Rosenberg was shocked 
to learn that he would receive no raise in 
salary for the next year. This had only 
happened to him once before, the year after a 
particularly large raise. This time, 
Rosenberg saw it as "Midani's and Shapiro's 
final chastisement". Several days later 
Shapiro informed Rosenberg that he would 
have only one class for the fall semester, 
sophomore Dramatic Literature. His 
Shakespeare course, playwriting courses and 
graduate seminars were all phased out or 
given to other faculty members.
The battle continued as Rosenberg sought 
help from the Faculty Review committee 
who ruled in favor of Rosenberg. This 
decision was sent to President Cyert who 
ignored the case entirely. John P. Crecine, 
Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs, 
responded to Rosenberg with a letter. He 
warned Rosenberg that he had "developed 
unrealistic expectations" as to the true power 
of the committee in influencing 
administrative decisions.
Eventually, Rosenberg was driven to file a 
lawsuit against Dean Midani, Shapiro and 
CMU asking for payment of salary money 
withheld, personal damages, and restoration 
of his rights and privileges within the 
Drama Department. This lawsuit is still in 
the courts.
Rosenberg's book cites other examples of 
the administration's unfair practices against 
people who speak out against the 
"Professional Choice" policy. Rob Roy
Kelly of the Design Department , Henry 
Clark of the Drama Department and Gerald 
Dantry of the Music Department all have 
stories similar to his. Rosenberg, however, 
was the only one to remain at CMU because 
his tenure restricted the administration from 
letting him go.
Rosenberg sees these stories as smaller 
parts of a very large problem. His main 
argument is that the emphasis on 
professionalism at CMU has detracted from 
"the classical concept of education that 
enabled its students to live fuller, happier 
and wiser lives." He is distressed that "The 
future CMU graduate is too apt to be not a 
broadly and complexly alive human being, 
open to ideas and feelings, knowledgeable 
about himself and deeply interested in his 
fellow human beings, but a clone of a 
computer, highly trained in a narrow range 
of quanitative skills, asocial, apolitical, and 
amoral, concerned only with the acquisition 
of money and professional position."
Rosenberg sees this professional attitude as 
the downfall of Fine Arts at CMU. He 
states," The mix of technology with Fine 
Arts and Humanities on this campus is 
about 90-10. I'd like to see about 60-40." He 
feels the administration is attempting to 
keep CFA at a zero growth level, keeping 
CFA as the "harmless pet on campus, 
sustained because it periodically brings in 
good P.R."
When asked if a change is possible, 
Rosenberg commented that there could be 
"an interesting and fruitful meeting between 
Science and the Arts" on this campus. At the 
present time , however, he feels "feeding an 
assembly line of employment is what 
education in America is all about." He feels 
his book has "forced some people to look at 
the situation." Although he sees no 
immediate strong repercussions from the 
book , he is not dissappointed. He stated, " I 
didn't have illusions that I could
significantly change CMU." However he is 
optimistic that in the future faculty members 
will get fairer treatment, and that his book 
"might embolden someone in the future to 
do something similar."
Administrative response to the book has 
been minimal. Rosenberg has not received 
acknowledgement of the book from Cyert 
Midani, or Shapiro. However, he does not 
expect any public comments from them. He 
claims "to fight openly would only 
exacerbate the case.
To date, Cyert and Midani have refrained 
from commenting on the book. Midani 
stated that he has not read the book and does 
not intend to. Shapiro is on sabbatical this 
semester, but has made a statement 
concerning the book in a Pittsburgh Po^t 
Gazette article. He is presently out of town 
and unavailable for comment.
The Rosenbergs' book is available in 
limited supply at the CMU bookstore.
...bored?
...lonely?
nothing to do on a Friday night?
 
HD m MEWSM
ZNevostaff meetings every Monday 4- ^0
everyone vaiik soul welcome
QQ9Q9QQQ99999
Mgs uns W UrUf?'
Would you like help with. . .
 exploring majors?
 investigating career goals?
 initiating professional contacts?
In a walk-through setting, Carnegie Mellon 
alumni will informally share their perspectives on. . .
 their jobs and industries
 their career decisions
 their Carnegie Mellon education
Carnegie
Mellon
Sponsored by Career Services and Placement/19 Warner Hall, x2064
Who  All majors, all class levels 
When  Wednesday, October 29 
2:00 - 5:00 PM 
Where  Skibo Ballroom
Attention :
CMU Undergraduate Students 
Seeking On-Campus Jobs
On-campus job opportunities are available.
Interested students should contact 
the Financial Aid Office at x2068 
and make an appointment to see 
Barbara Gigliotti.

---------------------------------------------------

DOMINOS PIZZA 
INTRODUCES THE 
*.99 SIX PACK
Receive a Six Pack of Coke for$.99 
With Any 2 Item or More Pizza.
LIMIT 1 SIX PACK PER 2-ITEM OR MORE PIZZA. 
OFFER EXPIRES NOV. 30, 1986 
Not Valid With Any Other Offer 
No Coupon Necessary
681-1707
315 N. Craig Street
521-2970
623 Greenfield AvenueDOMINOSPIZZADELIVERS'FREE.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 28, 1986
EDUCOM Highlights HighTech in Pittsburgh
By KARL BARNHART
Tartan Staffwriter
From November 10 to November 14, 
Carnegie Mellon will be showcasing its 
computing technology to the rest of the 
world. On Monday and Tuesday of that 
week, there will be a software fair in the 
Skibo Ballroom. Tuesday afternoon will 
mark the formal initiation of the campus 
EtherNet system. But clearly the biggest 
events are scheduled for Wednesday and 
Thursday when EDUCOM '86 will be 
touring the campus.
According to Elizabeth Barnhart, conference 
coordinator at CMU, "EDUCOM is a non
profit consortium of colleges, universities, 
and professional organizations founded in 
1964 to facilitate the introduction, use, and 
management of information technology." 
Boasting a membership of over 500 
institutions, EDUCOM offers general 
membership benefits such as discounts on 
hardware, software, seminars, and 
publications, offers a full range of 
information technology consulting, and 
promotes computer networking activities 
including BITNET, EDUNET, and 
MAILNET.
Annually, there is a general membership 
conference in which the whole year's 
activities are brought together at one time. 
Last year, it was in Boston; next year it will 
be in Los Angeles. But this year it is in 
Pittsburgh, and will be co-hosted by CMU 
and the University of Pittsburgh.
The conference will be centered in the 
Pittsburgh Hilton. Tuesday evening the 
formal program will start with a reception. 
On Wednesday and Thursday, there will be 
morning sessions and discussions followed 
by visits and tours of the CMU and Pitt 
campuses and Pittsburgh's Supercomputing 
Center. Friday's agenda includes further 
morning sessions ending around noon.
Topics of discussion will cover an
emmense array of educational computing. 
First, three general sessioms covering such 
topics as "Why the Steam Engine Was 
Revolutionary" to "The Impact of Networks 
on Education" are planned. Next, there will 
be six general categories: software,
evaluation, networking, library, key issues, 
and video. Each of these topics will be 
examined in five different sessions. Also 
there will be two special interest group 
meetings. These 20 different groups will 
address themes ranging from "Research 
Universities" to "Women in Technology".
A number of distinguished speakers are 
going to be addressing the conference. 
Nobel Prize winner Herbert A. Simon, 
Mayor of Pittsburgh Richard S. Caliguri, 
the Dean of CFA Akram Midani, and the 
President of NEXT Inc. and former President 
of Apple Computers, Steven Jobs, will 
speak on Wednesday. CMU President 
Richard Cyert, Wesley Posvar, President of 
Pitt, and J. L. Flanagan, Director of the 
Information Principles Research Laboratory 
of AT&T Bell Laboratories, will conduct 
sessions on Friday.
A major part of the program will be the 
visits. Not only will this demonstrate the 
campus computing systems, it will also 
show off the fifth national supercomputing 
center, and it will give hands-on experience 
with experimental technology. Pitt will 
follow a "campus of the future" theme 
which will focus on their integrated video, 
voice, and data information system. CMU 
will be displaying the "Andrew Project" 
while the Supercomputing Center will be 
open for tours.
CMU has an extensive agenda planned for 
the on-campus part of the conference. There 
will be 41 boothes set up in the Skibo 
Ballroom demonstrating a wide array of 
educational computing but mainly focusing 
on Andrew. There will be nine open houses: 
for example, the Tartan will show its
automated production facilities and the 
department of civil engineering will 
demonstrate its software in an open house. 
Seven different tours are scheduled to 
completely expose the different aspects of 
CMU's computing applications. Then, 
scattered over the campus, there will be ten 
different presentations of departmental 
computing.
In the Ballroom, the displays will be by 
CMU faculty and students as well as by 
members of ICEC. The Inter-University 
Consortium for Educational Computing, 
directed by Dr. Kenneth E. Friend, will have
15 of the 41 booths. Their major goal is to 
show the transposability of the Andrew 
system in relation to the different brands and 
models of workstations it incorporates.
A project of this size, which will bring an 
estimated 600 people onto the campus, will 
cause problems for a school the size of 
CMU. Dr. Thomas Neudecker, Assistant 
Vice President for Academic Affairs, stated it 
this way, "...we know that this is going to 
be an inconvenience as well as an
opprotunity for the campus to meet people 
from other places; to learn from them as 
well as show-off some fine work of our 
students, faculty, and researchers..."
There will be a large software fair in the 
Ballroom even before EDUCOM arrives 
This fair will be sponsored by CMU, the 
Benedum College Computer Enrichment 
Program, and the Western Pennsylvania 
Advanced Technology Center. The main 
concentration will lie in showing low-cost 
software for less expensive machines, and 
most of the demonstration will come from 
schools that are located in a 2-4 hour 
commute of Pittsburgh.
Then on Tuesday, after the first fair, there 
will be a closed, small ceremony marking 
the CMU EtherNet System being opened for 
operation. This is the achievement of a 
major goal in educational computing: a 
completly connected system of personal 
computers. This will enable students to 
connect to the campus mainframes and fileserver systems without using phone 
modems.
European Studies Grant Offered
Beginning in the summer of 1986, the 
Program in European Studies, 
Department of History, will make an 
annual summer fellowship award to a 
Carnegie Mellon junior majoring in 
European Studies, History or Foreign 
Languages who intends to write a senior 
honors thesis during the following 
academic year. The summer grant, for up 
to $1,500, will be given to help defray 
costs incurred by the student while 
undertaking research for the thesis in 
Europe.
Interested students should submit an 
application that describes the research 
planned and its feasibility (including
justification of language competency 
where relevant) as well as a budget 
justifying the funds requested. The 
application, no more than several pages 
in length, should be sent to Prof. Lynch 
at 240 Baker Hall by February 1987. The 
selection committee, composed of Profs. 
Steams, Silenieks and Lynch may request 
additional information form candidates, 
and will announce its decision about the 
award by March of 1987. The Committee 
reserves the right to make no award if no 
project is judged qualified. Interested 
students should consult with Prof. Lynch 
or other European Studies faculty about 
their plans in advance of their application.
Registration for the
5*" Annual Air-Band Competition
Monday, November 3 (Competition date: November 22nd)
Skibo Info Desk 
$25.00 deposit required (will be returned).
First 10 bands only!
1st Prize $200.00 
2nd Prize $100.00 
3rd Prize $ 50.00
-Sponsored by AB Lectures & Coffeehouse 
Funded by Activities Fee.

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1986The TartanPage 7
Socialist Candidate Talks About U.S. Imperialism
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan News Editor
"I always saw the country's problems as 
separate issues, like racism, and not as a 
class struggle..." says Phyllis Gray, the 
Worker's League candidate For state congress 
from the 14th District (Pittsburgh). Her 
involvement with the League has changed 
her viewpoint - and led her to try to change 
the system.
Socialism is an economic theory calling 
for redistribution of wealth through the 
establishment of a worker-controlled 
government. This can be accomplished only 
through the struggle of the oppressed and 
subsequent overthrow of the ruling class. 
The Workers League feels that, by 
mobilizing the working class and youth in 
the U.S., they can meet this end.
Gray, a 22-year-old East Liberty native, 
became interested in Socialist theory in 
August of 1983 when she studied in 
Hamburg, Germany. While abroad she 
"experienced a lot of things that politicized 
me," and from a different perspective, such 
as the U.S. invasion of Grenada. When she 
returned to Pitt in 1984, she joined the 
Young Socialists, who were 
creating controversy by sponsoring the antiCyert Addresses Faculty
continued from page 1
academic purposes (such as the completion 
of the UCC, purchase of the BOM, campuswide EtherNet wiring, and chemical & 
electrical engineering laboratory 
renovations), and $1,057,000 for auxilliary 
purposes (renovating Boss and McGill 
dormitories, and general maintainence in 
Morewood Gardens.)
Total enrollment for the 1985 academic 
year was 6078 students, a figure Cyert 
attributed more to decreased attrition than an 
increase in the incoming class. While 
tuition, which Rogers anticipates will 
"double...by the year 2000," was almost 
$1000 above other private schools in 
Pennsylvania, it was $300 below the average 
cost of 30 private institutions across the 
country that are considered top competition. 
Rogers feels that "weve moved up in quality 
as well as in price," claiming that Pitt, who 
at one time headed the list of other schools 
applied to by CMU students, didn't even 
make the top 15 last year. Rogers contends 
that CMU's biggest competitors are 
Princeton, Cornell, and MIT.
With regard to the complaints residents of 
Clyde Street have made about CMU students 
living there, Cyert said that there were "quite 
a few discussions going on." Both he and 
Rogers mentioned the possibility of building 
another dorm on campus at an estimated cost 
of $5-6 million, but Cyert said he would 
like to postpone it as long as possible," due 
to the changes in demand for onand offcampus housing.
Projects the University is working 
include a "high-quality industrial research 
park", to be constructed on a 10 acre strip of 
land on the old Jones & Laughlin steel mill 
site. CMU acquired the land from the city. 
Cyert explained that corporations going into 
similar parks may "develop closer relations 
with the universities who have parks" and 
give funding and research contracts to them, 
and claimed he is afraid CMU will be "left 
out in the cold." Other reasons he mentioned 
in favor of such a park included increasing 
the available research space on campus, and 
the aid to Pittsburgh's economy. He stated 
lots of firms have indicated they want to be 
c ose to us, so well see how close they 
want be."
As of yet, no one appears to be interested 
ln financing the hotel proposed for the 
Morewood Gardens parking lot. He calls the 
issue "not dead...but dim."
Cyert summed up with his feeling that "we 
have risen to great heights as a university," 
noting that some people rank us among the 
lop 10 "research universities" in the country.
Zionist film "The Palestinian." Opposition 
from the administration and threats of 
resignation from two Trustees forced them to 
show it off campus. Gray explained that, 
although they have no affiliation with the 
PLO, they showed it because they "defend all 
national liberation movements, including the 
right of Palestine to establish a homeland."
Gray is careful to make distinctions 
between the Workers League and similarlynamed groups, like the Socialist Workers 
Party and the American Communist Party. 
She believes they have "abandoned their 
leadership"; while they had both the numbers 
and authority in the Civil Rights/Vietnam 
War era, they limited themselves to single 
issue protesting instead of fighting against 
"the cause. . . U.S. Imperialism." According 
to Gray, a Socialist government would have 
removed the U.S. troops in Vietnam, and 
instead given funding to the freedom 
fighters.
The League, which considers itself 
Trotskyite, calls the Communist Party in 
Russia "Stalinist," in that it represents 
counterrevolution and doesn't fight actively 
to support struggles of the people. Gray 
believes they fear the working class much 
more than Imperialism, which is ironic since 
the Communist movement was "built on the
struggle against Imperialism."
So how could Socialism be implemented 
in a country so strongly grounded in 
capitalism? Gray claims the League is 
gaining numbers as peoples' disgust with the 
Reagan administration grows. During his 
term, the U.S. has "completely lost its 
position on the world trade market." With a 
deficit already triple what it was in 1980, 
Gray believes that by the end of the year, the 
U.S. will be the "biggest debtor nation" in 
the market. She sys that the working class 
has made the largest sacrifices for the 
country, in terms of jobs, education, and 
benefits, while the "imperialists are driven to 
war" to secure their own positions.
She further states that the labor class is 
"losing everything they fought for," citing 
the denial of their history in the U.S. as an 
example. May Day, the international 
workers' holiday celebrating the 8-hour 
workday, was not started in Russia, but in 
Chicago, when, in 1886, 4 workers were 
hung for protesting. Gray feels that the 
leadership of the trade unions is also holding 
back the movement by conservatism; she 
claims that, once the militants were 
eradicated from them, union leadership allied 
themselves with the "capitalist Democratic 
party," and "defended the right of
corporations to shut factories and take jobs."
Calling the Democrats "friends of Reagan, 
not labor," Gray labels the differences 
between the two as tactical; "Theyre still 
capitalists, they still defend the interests of 
the banks...they still oppress the working 
class." The League plans to eliminate this 
perceived attack on the workers by 
organizing them into a unified body and 
getting rid of the capitalist system.
Gray feels that "young people," specifically 
high school and college students, will play 
an important role in the League. When asked 
how they would attract students to the 
movement, she replied "we won't have to 
convince students... that things are 
changing." Gray feels that the cuts in federal 
funding for education, shrinking job market 
(in some industries, such as steel and heavy 
machinery), and war build-up 
in the Middle East and Central America are 
turning students away from the capitalist 
system. She attributes current student 
activism more to a serious concern for the 
future than to the visibility of fashionable 
liberal activity. She thinks that the students 
have to be organized "into a struggle," and 
have to protest the system as a whole, not 
just specific issues. On apartheid, Gray says 
continued on page 12
From TERADYNE
 Very Large Scale Invitation
from a Technology Leader
In electronics, tbe era of very large scale integration (VLSI) has arrived. leaving many 
companies with products suddenly obsolete and engineering staffs struggling to catcb up.
But not Teradyne. Thanks to SI65 million spent on R&Dfrom 1981-1985, Teradyne was ready and waiting for VLSI.
Ready with VLSI memory testers, logic testers, analog testers, board testers.
Ready in Boston, Massachusetts, and Woodland Hills, California, u'bere Teradyne develops ATEfor tbe electronics industry.
, Ready in Deerfield, Illinois, center for Teradynes telephone system testing operations.
Ready in Nashua, New Hampshire, where Teradyne produces backplane connection sys
tems and state-of-tbe-art circuit board technology designated to meet VLSI requirements.
This kind of technology leadership 
spells growth. Excitement.Challenge. Career opportunities 
you just can 7find anywhere else.
Teradyne. A company 
ahead of its time, looking for some good 
people to keep it ahead.
For more information, see 
your Placement Counselor.
SHARE 
IN OUR 
SUCCESS
u.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The Tartan-October 28, 1986
Casey Goes After Student Vote at CMU
By JOSH RUBEN
Tartan Staffwriter
Representatives for Democratic 
gubernatorial candidate Bob Casey held a 
meeting with Carnegie Mellon students last 
Monday to "drum up" volunteers to aid in 
the Casey campaign and to "shed some 
light" on the candidate and his plans for 
Pennsylvania.
Neil Malady, Chairman of the Bob 
Casey/Mark Singel Campaign in Pittsburgh, 
and Susann Roach, President of Allegheny 
County Young Democrats, staged the 
meeting as a question and answer session for 
the eight people in attendance. The audience 
included members of The Tartan, graduate 
students from the School of Urban and 
Public Affairs, and President of the Student 
Government, Jim Denberg.
Malady began the discussion by 
introducing some of Casey's plans for 
Pennsylvania. One of the largest and most 
sweeping in terms of changes and additions 
is Casey's plan for education. He proposes 
to raise entry level requirements, and increase 
wages for teachers who have been on the job 
for many years. "We want the most 
competant teachers handling our most 
precious resorce," said Malady when asked 
about competency exams for teachers. 
"Some sort of test would be ideal" in order 
to make sure that students get the best 
quality education, he added. The plan also 
provides a means to encourage more 
professionals to become teachers. A high 
entry level salary for new teachers would 
"show that people care" about the work that 
the teachers are doing. He also said, "There 
is a provision in the plan where the state 
will pick up part of the loan for a student 
who studies to be a teacher and on graduation 
agrees to teach in hard hit areas like the Hill 
District or Philadelphia inner city schools 
where there aren't quality teachers." The
most important feature in the plan, according 
to Malady, is that "Gold Star teachers will 
be rewarded for their work." Also, the 
poorer teachers would have the chance to 
learn and improve. Neither Malady nor 
Roach could comment on where the funds 
for this or any of the other plans would 
come from, although Malady did say that 
"[none of the Casey plans] will cause tax 
dollars to increase one cent." A key point 
in the Casey campaign is to keep people, 
college graduates specifically, in 
Pennsylvania. "Students are our largest 
export," joked Malady. Pennsylvania is one 
of the best states for high level education in 
the country, commented Malady who 
graduated from Penn State. Roach summed 
up Casey's plans to keep people in the state 
by saying that, "Bob Casey is going to 
change the quality of life in Pennsylvania."
Casey's plans do call for wide spread and 
thorough "revampment" of many 
departments within the state government, the 
Department of Commerce being one of the 
prime targets. "He wants to abolish the 
D.O.C. as it exists" due to "the layers of 
Red Tape for those who wish to start small 
businesses." In its place, Casey will set up 
the Economic Development Corporation, 
which will be "a round table of members 
from the governor's office, labor, private 
industry, education, and all areas of the 
economy." Malady could not give details as 
to how the E.D.C. would be established and 
confessed that such a sudden shift in 
orginizations would be "hard to swallow" for 
some people.
After almost an hour of discussing Bob 
Casey and his ideas for Pennslyvania, 
Malady and Roach responded to questions 
about the campaign itself. The most 
controversial issue in this campaign has 
been the negative advertising, or 
mudslinging, on the part of both candidates.
How to Start a Business !
t
Learn How to Start a Business from Those Who Have.
Entrepreneur's Day features:
Workshops on the how tool business, conducted by successful entrepreneurs
A Business Resource Center staffed by professionals
Costs
Registration including $50 00luncheon,coffee breaks and reception 
Student rate $25 00
Luncheon only $20 00
Far registration information call:
Gerry Bradley 
The Enterprise Corporation 
of Pittsburgh 
412-578-3481
Entrepreneurs
Wednesday. November 12, 1986 m3 Cl jf David Lawrence Convention Center
Sponsored by:
The Enterprise Corporation 
of Pittsburgh
and
Arthur Andersen & Co
Berkman Ruslander Pohl 
Lieber and Engel
Equibank
Pittsburgh High Technology Endowment
Western Pennsylvania Advanced Technology Center
Malady addressed the issue by stating that in 
the beginning of the campaign, both Casey 
and Scranton said that they did not want to 
get into that type of campaign. Malady 
explained that negative campaigns "are the 
trend in America right now," and he put the 
blame on consulting agencies who promote 
such commercials and newspaper ads. Roach 
commented that it was Scranton who in fact 
began the mudslinging, but neither 
spokesperson would explain why Casey 
followed suit.
Malady felt confident that the reason 
Scranton said he pulled his negative ads 
against Casey was because Scranton could 
not find any more dirt on him. Neither 
Malady nor Roach said if Casey's ads agaist 
Scranton would be pulled. Malady added that 
if Scranton would base his campaign on "the 
issues we have discussed here, then we 
[Casey] has him beat hands down."
The abortion issue is the only major 
concern that neither candidate has addressed 
directly: Malady accounted for this by
saying that Casey is "a strict RomanCatholic and a believer in pro-life." 
Everyone at the discussion began talking 
about the issue and how it heats up at times.
"Pennsylvania in general is a very 
conservative state on that issue," said 
Malady.
Malady said that is important for people to 
know the candidates and the best way to 
educate people is to get out and talk to them. 
He commented that "The Reagan regime has 
done a masterful job on selling the country 
on the idea that less government is a good 
idea." Because of this, he added, "the apathy 
is so bad this year...not because of all the 
negative campaigning [between Casey and 
Scranton] but because of Reagan's idea of 
less government..people are turned off by 
government." A big voter turnout is what 
the Casey people are hoping for.
For many college women, "networking" 
is a necessary and vital tool for job 
searching in the 80's. Zonta Clubs of 
Pittsburgh and Kaufmann's Triangle 
Comer, Ltd., as well as Saavy 
magazine, would like to invite college 
women, especially seniors, to join in a 
day of networking at the 7th Annual 
Career Network Day Saturday, November 
1st, starting with registration at 8:00 
AM. The conference will be held at 
downtown Kaufmanns 11th floor 
auditorium.
"Our Changing Environment: A 
Challenge for Success" is the theme 
designated for this years conference.
The keynote speaker will be 
Pittsburgh Press reporter Mary Pat 
Flaherty, who was the recipient of one of 
the most prestigious awards presented to 
journalists, a 1986 Pulitzer Prize.
The conference hosts a variety of 
speakers from all sections of the business 
and professional community in 
Pittsburgh including: Carol R. Brown, 
Executive Director, Pittsburgh Trust for 
Cultural Resources; Carol Hymowitz, 
Deputy Chief, Wall Street Journal; 
Lynne Hayes, Director, Host, 
"Vibrations" and KDKA-TV2 Weekend 
Magazine; Sandra J. McLaughlin, Senior 
Vice-President, Mellon Bank, N.A.; and 
Doreen Boyce, Director of the Buhl 
Foundation.
Another featured speaker, author Jo 
Foxworth, will discuss the highlights 
from her book, Arrival and Survival 
which addresses the problems women 
encounter in middle and upper 
management positions.
Rounding out the days events will be 
three career workshops designated to 
address specific career stages for women.
For more info about the conference and 
to learn about a limited number of 
scholarships to help pay for the cost of 
attendance, contact Lois Behr at x4890.
Emergency 
Medical 
Service
The Carnegie Mellon EMS provides:
 24 hour first-responder service on campus.
 First Aid coverage at special campus events.
 Training up to paramedic level for members.
 Courses in CPR and First Aid for the public.
Anyone interested in emergency medicine is invited to join. 
No prior experience is necessary. Our next meeting is on : 
Tuesday, October 28,1986 
5:30 pm 
Skibo 45 
We will be holding CPR and first aid courses in midNovember for any member of the CMU community. Watch 
the Tartan and notice boards for more information.
An Activities fee funded organisation.

---------------------------------------------------

Salomon Brothers Ine___________
Market Makers and Inv estment Bankers
One New York Plaza, New York. New York 10004 Atlanta, Boston. Chicago, Dallas. London (affiliate), Los Angeles. San Francisco, Tokyo (affiliate), Zurich
Theres a new career option for todays quantitative graduates.
Its not in academia Its not in Corporate America Its not in the 
Silicon Valley
Its on Wall Street.
Today Will Street quants" are literally shaping the future of 
high finance. Theyre developing a new generation of investment 
products, pioneering new ways to improve profitability; and 
creating new opportunities for investors and issuers. And for their 
quantitative creativity theyre being recognized with qualitative 
rewards. With challenge, responsibility and recognition.
Yet you might be surprised to learn that many of Wall Streets 
most successful quants have no prior experience in finance or 
economics. They come from backgrounds in math, physics,
engineering, operations research, computer science, and other 
quantitative disciplines.
Today; Wall Street firms are hiring more quantitative graduates 
than ever, and Salomon Brothers Inc. is no exception. A major invest
ment banking and market-making firm, we re Wall Streets leading 
employer of quant graduates. And since our research and tech
nology management departments are the most respected in the 
industry youll be working with some of the top talent in your field.
Want to learn more about the challenge of working with a Wall 
Street leader in one of todays most rewarding quantitative careers? Don 't 
miss the Salomon Brothers presentation scheduled for your campus: 
November 4,1986; Camegie-MeHon 
Skibo Hall, Room 12; 7-9pm

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Corporate "Withdrawals" 
Reflect 
Capitalist Cunning
The past week has seen a relative exodus of American 
corporations leaving South Africa. General Motors, 
previously the second-largest American company in South 
Africa, announced its plans to leave last Monday. I.B.M., 
announced similar plans the following day. Honeywell and 
Warner Corporations followed suit later in the week. CocaCola announced its withdrawal several monthes ago.
Although these highly-visible corporate departures have 
made great headlines, have they made a bit of difference in 
South Africa? No, because if you look carefully at the 
conditions of the pull-outs, a certain pattern becomes 
obvious. The pattern is best described by the word asscovering. Corporations are managing to have their cake and 
eat it too.
All the talk about divestment and bad press surrounding 
South Africa may have made some of these corporations 
uncomfortable enough to think about the status of their public 
image. But as long as there is money to made, pulling-out just 
to appease the moral sensibilities of the general public is out 
of the question. Profits in South Africa were waning for 
many corporations, however. This situation offered them 
even more incentive to change the status of their holdings. 
Many corporations will improve their profits by withdrawing 
their personnel from South Africa and letting South African 
personnel take over operations.
The conditions of these pull-outs are so specific as to be 
very safe moves. The withdrawals involve a symbolic 
breaking of ties between the corporate headquarters and the 
affiliate in South Africa. Management of the now independent 
companies is assumed by the residual South African 
management. But products made or distributed by companies 
like GM, I.B.M. and Warner Communications, will still be 
available in South Africa, and profit will still be made by the 
U.S. corporations. Many American companies have pledged 
financial investments to support the newly "independent" 
companies that they have created. These investments will 
have to be made before Congress' sanctions come into effect 
in mid-November.
A final clause of these corporate withdrawals, is that they 
come equipped with buy-back policies, so that if the political 
climate changes in South Africa, and there is no longer a 
stigma attached to doing business in Pretoria, parent 
corporations can freely return to business as usual.
The departures obviously fall short of what anti-apartheid 
groups hoped for. But anyone who looks realistically at 
American business today will realize that corporations are not 
going to pursue a policy which could compromise their 
profits, simply to support a "moral" cause. Such is not the 
nature of the capitalist beast.
Unclogging the 
Cashier's Office
You'd like to get some cash for the weekend, so you decide 
you'll stop into the cashier's office to cash a check before 
class. But you know it's not really possible to just drop by 
the cashier's office and do anything before class. Going to 
the cashier's office is a project, a mission, not a quick errand. 
And furthermore, if it's pay day... forget it. It would be just as 
quick to walk down to Mellon Bank and cash a check there. 
But if you want to pick up your paycheck, then you have to 
wait in line. Employees in the office recognize the problem 
posed by payday, but they still have bank deadlines to meet 
and regular daily operations to attend to.
Everyone complains about having to wait in line at the 
cashier's office, but can anything really be done about it? 
Probably. However, a large part of the problem lies not with 
the staff of the office, but with the budget that constrains the 
size of the staff. The number of staff members employed by 
the cashier's office is controlled by the upper echelons of the 
University administration. Perhaps, the sight of a long string 
of disgruntled students waiting for their checks on payday 
would convince the powers that be, that a larger staff is in 
order for the office.
A second suggestion is to do something about the ridiculous 
system of signing for paychecks. The process of distributing 
checks is undoubtedly slowed down by people fumbling 
through a pile of papers looking for their names so that they 
can sign next to it with a pen tied to the end of a string. This 
is supposed to be a modem university on the cutting edge of 
high technology. Come on people, catch up.
Letters:
Response: Scotland Yard Breaks the Silence
Editor:
As president of Scotland Yard, I 
am pleased that someone, Hans 
Tallis, has finally written a 
lengthy and detailed critique which 
we, the executive board can 
respond to. One of the biggest 
problems we face is silence. It 
seems that we are so busy dealing 
with the day to day details since 
opening last November, that we 
have failed to keep the student 
body informed as to what Scotland 
Yard is all about. We are also 
concerned with silence on the part 
of the student body. We can only 
be effective if we are constantly 
receiving new ideas and criticisms. 
Scotland Yard is run by a 
committee of students for the 
campus. Decisions are made and 
policy is set by the executive 
board, not by administration. 
Deans Brad Walter and Lois Cox of 
Student Affairs advise and help us 
but the real power of decision is 
our own. Thus, any student input 
directly influences decisions that 
affect the Yard's future. It really 
is/can be the student's pub.
As to the Yard's budget: yes, it is 
"tight". Our 1986-1987 budget 
includes provisions for food and 
supplies, labor, equipment, 
advertising, entertainment, and 
events. Any profit we make goes 
back into improving Scotland 
Yard. Despite these constraints, 
we listen to comments and 
suggestions and try to do what we 
can.
Mr. Tallis' most important 
insight is that there is still no 
coherent theme for Scotland Yard. 
However, I also think that this is 
changing. Our main concern has 
always been to play down the idea
of "restaurant" or UDS alternative 
and emphasize our hopes for 
Scotland Yard as a place that we, 
the students, can call our own 
place to gather, meet, relax, laugh, 
forget, escape, etc. As to the 
concept, from what response we 
have received, students want a 
combination of campiness, 
comfort and class. The concept of 
a student "club" suggests this 
synthesis to me and this is the 
direction we have been taking. 
For instance, the once awful bare 
walls and high ceilings are 
beginning to come alive with 
interesting, personal items and 
many students have donated their 
own treasures to our collection. 
Having a budget for entertainment 
this year has resulted in more and 
better entertainment, including 
bands, comedians, and films. We 
have also stocked the bar with 
backgammon, chess, and domino 
games that can be checked out.
And being open more hours this 
semester makes the pub more 
accessible to the entire campus.
The menu has been a continuous 
problem. We began last 
November with a menu which was 
more "cafe-ish". However, our 
biggest customer complaint was 
that there were not enough 
"munchies" and snack items. And 
though we must search for 
continuity, we must not sacrifice 
variety, especially when sales 
show that our . customers like 
Mexican tostadas and hot dogs. 
The next menu (coming sometime 
before November 15, our first 
birthday) will attempt to strike a 
balance between items like pizza 
and items like the cheese platter. 
Hopefully we will have a salad or 
two. As to the "fake alcoholic 
drinks", I think Mr. Tallis is 
being unfair. We only have two 
drinks that can be so classed, the 
continued on page 12
Scotland Yard Defended
Editor :
The objective of Scotland Yard, 
our student-run pub, is to provide a 
relaxing atmosphere where students 
may come in and socialize over a 
variety of entrees and light snacks. 
Recently, though, the Yard has 
come under extreme criticism by a 
few students. As an initial 
member of the Management 
Committee and former employee 
of the Yard, I have witnessed a 
dedicated group of students turn i 
paper fantasy into reality. Yet I 
cannot understand how a few 
students can make erroneous 
statements about an organization 
they have not taken the time to get
involved with. Scotland Yard is in 
no way, shape, or form to take on 
or even surpass the role of UDS. 
The Yard is to offer an alternative 
to greasy hamburgers and loud 
Juke Boxes by creating a relaxing 
atmosphere where sutdents may 
come to socialize and be 
entertained by the talent of their 
fellow students. Thus before 
putting one's foot in mouth, 1 
urge students to get involved with 
the Yard and see what it is really 
about.
Edward A. Grey 
Sophomore 
Industrial Management

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Classifieds
Events
Tartan Interview: The Bangles
By DAN WEIR
Tartan Assistant Entertainment Editor 
At long last, Carnegie Mellon students will 
be officially credited with their success 
during the 1985-86 Students Against 
Multiple Sclerosis (SAMS) fundraiser. 
CMU defeated all competing schools 
nationwide, with total donations in excess of 
$23,000, to win a free concert sponsored by
The all-female Bangles have been compared to the all-male Beatles
really have to force yourself to come up with 
something. Sometimes somebody coming 
in with another idea just works to break the 
mental block.
Tartan: How would you characterize the
transition from your first album. All Over 
the Place to Different Light ?
Susanna: We didn't have a lot of time to 
write for the second album. The first album 
was a collection of things we'd done for 
years prior to a recording contract plus some 
stuff written as late as a week before we
song live. The other night we were playing 
a show in L.A. and Prince came on to do the 
guitar solo for one of our earlier numbers, 
"Hero Takes A Fall" -- it was just exciting 
to be a part of that.
Tartan: I've read where you've been
involved with some acting projects...
Vicki: Yes! I've worked recently on a film 
called "Love Doll Superstar" by a friend of 
ours named Dave Markey which is the sequel 
to an earlier film we made called "Desperate 
Teenage Love Dolls." They're just Super 8
films inspired by our sort of psychedelic 
friends and their wonderful social 
commentaries  which really have nothing 
at all to do with social commentary. The 
plot turns around an all-girl group that 
discovers stardom, lands back in the gutter 
and is eventually the first girl group in 
space, which the Bangles are now competing 
for! Anyway, the film is now touring the
Michael Steele
states acting as sort of an opening act for a 
lot of the SST bands, among others, and its 
done very well. It's really something 
colleges should be screening!
Tartan: With regards to your videos: are
you happy with the way they've lent 
themselves to your songs?
Vicki: For the most part, theyve been
very disappointing, except for the last one, 
"Walk Like An Egyptian" which we had a 
lot of fun doing. That was a video for which 
we were involved from start to finish - we 
trusted the director to do what he's good at 
and were pleasantly surprised by the results. 
Tartan: What, for instance, didnt you like 
about the "If She Knew What She Wants" 
video?
Vicki: That was a nightmare. There are
actually two videos for that song, the 
European version was shot in London at the 
end of the European tour. Filming went for 
24 hours straight and wed had no sleep the 
night before. It was very hectic.
Tartan: Generally speaking, what are your 
thoughts on video as a medium?
Vicki: I think it all depends on the artist 
and the tune . It can be completely 
superfluous  all of a sudden you can't 
discriminate between the song and the video. 
On the other hand, a good visual image can 
really enhance a song. A lot of acts have 
been bom on video.
Tartan: You inevitably suffer comparisons 
between yourself and other girl groups. How 
do you think that has affected your success? 
Vicki: Its been healthy for us as
individuals because we work pretty well 
together; for one of us to be male might 
upset that balance. As far as the public sees 
us, it's so hard for us to judge if people are 
just giggling at us behind our backs or if 
they think it's totally hip. Some guys may 
just like to go see women on a stage, thats 
what gets them off... and that's fine. It's no 
different then girls staring at Mick Jagger or 
David Lee - no different.
Wednesdays pre-show festivities, beginning 
at 8:00 PM, will include a reunion of Jeff 
Mullers now infamous 'The Time" airband 
and a congratulatory address by MT\'s Mark 
Goodman.
Vicki Peterson
MTV. Headlining the SAMS/MTV event 
tomorrow night at the Syria Mosque will be 
the Los Angeles band, the Bangles.
The group is currently enjoying the 
success of a string of U.S. hits including 
"Manic Monday", "If She Knew What She 
Wants" and "Walk Like an Egyptian"  all 
from their second album Different Light. I 
recently had a chance to speak with Bangles 
Susanna Hoffs and Vicki Peterson about the 
upcoming concert and their music.
Tartan: When did you first learn of the
SAMS event?
Susanna: I guess it was last Spring break, 
when we were doing a show in Daytona 
Beach that we first heard about it so we've 
been planning and looking forward to this 
for quite a while. I have a number of friends 
in the school's dram.t department and our 
lighting designer went there as well.
Tartan: With regards to your sound  Ive 
often read where you've been compared to the 
likes of the Mamas and the Papas, the Byrds, 
even to the Beatles. Pop history shows that 
overly-enthusiastic comparisons by the 
music press between newer bands and the 
Beatles can be a mixed blessing of sorts. Im 
thinking in particular of Difford and 
Tilbrook and especially the Knack. How do 
you respond to that?
Susanna: Were flattered if anyone
mentions us in the same breath as the 
Beatles, they're probably our favorite group. 
They were our introduction to music when 
we fell in love with them at age four or five, 
but it's not something were outwardly 
striving for. There are certain structural 
similarities between the Beatles and our 
band; everybody writes, everybody sings, 
there are a lot of harmonies and we try to 
keep the arrangements simple and straight
forward, but were ultimately very different. 
I guess it's all part of writing about the arts, 
it's the writers job to describe something 
that's "indescribable." I might say we sound 
something like British Invasion meets mid
sixties folk, but again, you take it with a 
grain of salt.
lartan: The writing credits are pretty
dispersed, there doesn't seem to be any real 
front for the band. Has it always been this 
way?
Susanna: Yes, everyone has a hand. Vicki, 
I'd say is the most most experienced  when 
we met we made it our goal to be writing 
partners which was good for me because 
although we'd both written when we were 
younger, she was more disciplined. I would
went into the studio; so there was definitely 
a good amount of time represented on the 
first record. The second record, however, 
was written mostly while we were on tour 
for All Over the Place. Because we werent 
writing intensively and because we were on 
the road, we didn't get much opportunity to 
sample the new stuff before an audience. 
For that reason, I think, Different Light has
Susana Hoffs Debbi Peterson
often come up with fragments which I'd 
turn over to Vicki and shed finish them. 
The system works just as well in reverse. 
For example, on "Return Post" Vicki had 
the music for the verse and the chorus but 
had only written about five lines of lyric in 
five years. That's when somebody else steps 
in and says "look, we've got this great riff, 
let's just do it, let's finish it," and you
less of a rock feel than the songs we'd played 
in clubs for years. For the next album, we 
want to keep some of those mid-tempo, 
folky things but we want to write a lot more 
rock songs.
Tartan: Are you more comfortable writing 
the upbeat numbers or the ballads?
Susanna: I tend towards ballads, but
there's really nothing like playing a rock

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanOctober 28, 1986
Mixed repertoire provides a good season opener
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Presenting a well-textured blend of the 
precise, the passionate and the patriotic, the 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre opened its season 
over the weekend with a mixed repertoire 
performance.
An example of George Balanchine's 
distinctive choreographic style opened the 
performance, as the company presented 
Allegro Brillante, a short work danced to the 
Third Piano Concerto by Tchaikovsky. This 
plotless and predominantly moodless ballet 
is essentially an opportunity to highlight 
technical ability. In keeping with the 
intricate music, the choreography presents a 
series of complex, alternating patterns. Often 
the dancers perform moves is sequence rather 
than in unison, lending a certain tense 
energy to the ballet, as we are accustomed to 
seeing steps performed simultaneously rather 
than in quick succession.
Particularly strong was PBT's Janet 
Popeleski in the demanding female lead. 
Danced in toe shoes and classically simple 
constumes, Allegro Brillante lacks the 
simplistic beauty of Balanchine's Serenade, 
but the ballet is interesting and the dancers 
rose to the difficulty of the choreography 
with the necessary display of precision and 
control.
Paul Taylor's intense and visually stunning 
work, Mercuric Tidings, followed Allegro 
Brillante on the playbill. Excerpts from 
Schubert's 1st and 2nd Symphonies 
accompany this three-movement ballet of 
almost sadistic speed. Only in the adagio of 
the second movement do the dancers get 
respite from the relentless tempo of the 
work. Given the tempo, the collision-course 
patters, the contorted, but not quite awkward 
movements, and the barely-there, 
luminescent red costumes, Mercuric Tidings 
is bound to be an intense work if performed 
properly. Although the quick and unusual
nature of many segments in the ballet 
revealed weakness in the male corps, the 
performance as a whole was memorable and 
Ernest Tolentino and Tamar Rachelle geve 
remarkably athletic and energetic 
perfomances in the male and female leads.
Agnes de Mille's Rodeo closed the 
evening's perfomance with some good ol' 
Americanna. While de Mille's choreography 
and the accompanying score by Aaron 
Copland are a bit gimmicky, the 
performance was lively and drew a very
favorable and enthusiastic response from the 
evening's audiece of about 2,200 for the 
Saturday performance. Highlights of Rodeo 
were the traditional Western costumes, 
Courtney Smith's portrayal of the cowgirl, 
and the unusually effective second scene of 
the ballet which featured an evening squaredance. This scene, danced in blude lighting 
against a back-drop of the same color, 
featured four couples square-dancing a capella 
except for the clapping of the dancer's 
themselves.
Mixed repertoire performances offer an ideal 
opportunity to experience different types of 
ballet. PBT's contantly expanding repertoire 
and the daners' ability to move between 
wildly different choreographic styles with 
apparent ease, make performances like this 
weekends particularly entertaining.
The PBT season will resume in December 
with performances of the Nutcracker. For 
ticket and subscription information call 
the Ballet at 281-0360, or contact the 
Housing Office
Oh, oh... AHHHHHHHHHHHH ! ! ! !
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor 
Are you in love? Are you planning to 
get married? Are you already married? 
Well if you answered yes to any of these 
questions or if you like a good laugh then 
you should go to Graffiti on Thursday
Sam Kinison 
at Graffiti
evening. You see, one of todays most 
controversial and hilliarious comedians 
Sam Kinison will roar through 
Pittsburgh for two shows, 8 and 10:30 
p.m.
Kinison is no ordinary comedian, 
though. He tells jokes in a style all his 
ownbasically he walks up to you and 
yells in your ear. Sounds a bit strange? It 
is, but once you've seen Kinison you'll 
never be the same.
Originally a traveling minister, Kinison 
has quickly become one of todays most 
popular comics. His first national
exposure was on the Rodney Dangerfield 
HBO Special and he literally stole the show. 
Since that time he has appeared on 
Letterman and Saturday Night Live. 
What sets Kinison apart from other 
comedians is his ability to poke fun at 
aspects of life that are rarely thought as 
funny (i.e. love, marriage, and starvation in 
Africa, etc). He begins his show by asking 
the audience if there is anyone present that is 
in love. Invariably someone responds 
affirmatively. He probes deeper by asking if 
the respondent is planning to get married. 
Again, he gets a yes. Then Kinison walks 
over to the person and leans over as if to 
give him advice. His face void of any 
emotion, Kinison asks that he remember 
this face. He leans over and begins to scream 
at the top of his lungs YOU'RE GOING 
TO BE IN A LIVING HELL!!
Kinison, who has had one divorce, is so 
effective in getting his point across that Jay 
Leno has said about him You just know 
that this guy has been married.
On the African famine, Kinison is equally 
as abrasive. "YOU LIVE IN A FN
DESERT" he shouts. Don't send them 
food, send over U-Hauls or Samsonites... 
so they can move to where the food is!
Kinison has just released his first album 
Louder Than Hell on Warner Brothers 
Records. With any other commedian this 
would virtually give away his act. 
However, Kinison's primal scream 
delivery and facial expressions cannot be 
captured on vinyl. Besides, a good yell is 
good for you once in a while.
For ticket information call 363-0500.
**0UR68fK3**PIZZA.CHEESE 
SUPREMEFREE
DELIVER
WITHIN 30
MINUTES ? ? ? ? ? 
622-7000
12" CHEESE 
$4.40 
16" CHEESE 
$6.50
ITALIANHOAGIE
12" WHOLE...$3.95 
6" HALF...$2.00
r
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
k.
COUPON
Our Gang Pizza
$1.00 OFF Large Pizza 622-7000
Expires 11/15/86
4523 Centre Avenue 
Oakland 
I Sun-Thurs 11am-1pm 
Fri - Sat 11am-2am
I
, J
COUPON
Our Gang Pizza
50c OFFSmall Pizza 622-7000
Expires 11/15/86
Six Shows - Six Weeks
Week # 6:
Oct. 27-29
CAMINO REAL
Free Admission 
Monday Tuesday Wednesday 
8:30 8:30 5 & 8:30
srudo rheorre

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1986The TartanPage D3
PLAN HOLIDAY 
TRAVEL
VooVlumeml81 l,N
TO AVOID 
DISAPPOINTMENT!
_ _ _ _ CMU DIRECTFORBES EXT. 2999
photby521-7300
ESc Carolyn E. McCreary, Entp.
TYPEWRITING CLASSES 
Register Now! Fee: $50Informal Classes for beginning & advanced students. Type your own * term paper(s), as a lab assignment, with electronic typewriter. See how FAST & EASY. Day, Evening & Saturday classes available. For information and to register contact Miss Smith personally (412)771-3251 by 11/3/86. (Closed 10/28/86) CertifiedBusiness Education Instructor with degree.
DEMO STUDIOQuality Recording You Can Afford
'052 Franklin Drive Bethel Park. PA '15102 JACK IPWIN (412)835-6398
Futon Sale
Manufactured: Carlisle Mattress Factory 
5116 Penn Ave. Pgh, PA 15224 
Call 661 -6499 (9am-4pm)
Oriental Mattress: Light weight, easily packed up for moving 
and storage. Perfect for apts, dorms, whereever space is limited
Christian Rock fn Roll: Music with a message
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
DeGarmo & Key and Petra, two of 
Christian rock music's premier groups, 
thrilled crowds with their rock & roll 
ministries to youth during their concert last 
Thursday evening at the Syria Mosque. On 
their 40-city Fall tour labeled "The Back to 
the Streets Tour," Petra and DeGarmo & 
Key offered what theyconsider to be a "rocktheology," reaching out and promoting the 
word of Christ.
DeGarmo & Key, performing for over 
fifteen years, continued their strong 
reputation as rock evangelists. Referred to 
as the Billy Grahams of contemporary rock, 
they have continually tried to communicate 
their faith and the Gospel to both believers 
and non-believers "in the most contempory 
music language available," says Dana Key. 
They broke ground in the music video world 
for Christian rock with their song "Six, Six, 
Six," based on a dream of what it might be 
like for someone to encounter the Antichrist 
just before his prophesised rise to power. 
The message is "Beware of the man, beware 
of the nubmer 666"
DeGarmo & Key, having just released their 
new album, Street Light, provided concert 
goers with a pleasant surprise by touring 
with Petra. This tour follows closely on the 
heels of D&K's summer festival and industry 
appearances, including Creation Festival, 
Greenfest, and Spirit America.
Petra, however, was the primary focus of 
the concert. Playing music they consider to 
be comparable to such groups as REO 
Speedwagon, Rush, and Styx, Petra is trying 
to aim for the un-Christian, un-churched, die
hard rock fan. Petra played loud and 
powerful, for a Christian group and for those 
not listening to the lyrics or the short 
sermons scattered throughout the concert, 
one would never know they were religious.
Petra started out on very rough ground. 
Forming in 1972, the group's rock sound 
was considered to be no different from any of
Petras new lead singer John Schlitt fronted
the "secular rock," which the church in 
general frowned upon. Their basically 
conservative clientele just didn't trust rock 
music, because they felt popular rock 
promoted sinful ideologies. Petra tried to 
adopt a popular genre of style but still had 
trouble convincing the church that they were 
of sound Christian ethics and their message 
would come across poignantly.
They overcame this obstacle through 
extensive touring. Rock fans don't want just 
a concert, they want an event that is social, 
musical, and, above all, memorable. 
Through many years of hardships on the 
road, Petra finally found their nitche in 
communicating the Gospel, especially to 
young people. In a sence, the Crhsitian 
world still doesn't trust rock music. Petra 
sees themselves as using the music merely 
as a tool to reach the young with the gospel 
message, and not just as an end itself, 
doing now is what we've always felt called
the group well at their Thrusday concert 
to do...11 think our message is pretty much 
straight ahead: knowing Christ and living 
for Christ." Bob Hartman, lead guitar 
concluding, "we definitely acknowledge and 
seek to improve the entertainment aspects of 
what we do; we are no less entertaining 
though we ar~ primarily ministry 
motivated... this does probably hurt us 
according to the secular world, but we have a 
message to deliver."
Thursday's concert definitely did deliver that 
message. Even with their recent change of 
lead singers from Greg Volz to John Schlitt, 
the new sound didn't seem to phase Petra 
fans too much, although attendance was less 
than expected. Fronting the group well, 
Schlitt's voice is "a little bit fuller and a 
little bit raspier than Greg's," according to 
Hartman. After reworking some of the old 
sings, Hartman admits the concert makes a 
"kicking set."
at the Mosque.
With the new lead singer came somewhat 
of a new sound for the whole group. Their 
latest album, "Back to the Streets" "... did 
not have as much of the techno-feel as some 
of their previous albums. We're gonna get 
more back-to-the basics in the sound...more 
emphasis on guitar in the songs whereas the 
keyboards took a predominant role...," 
Hartman stated. Lead Vocalist Schlitt says 
the latest album "provides an alternative to 
secular rock...with a new sound that is the 
most hard-core yet for Petra."
The concert enthused the crowds at the 
Mosque and did successfully deliver its 
message. The future for Petra is not 
specifically trying to break harder into the 
secular rock market, although they have a 
foothold already. They will continue to 
reach out to the youth with what Schlitt 
considers to be, "...good-ole rock 'n roll with 
a strong spiritual backing."
Al
S&SS*
the stare30atgpM 
Thurs-oct-3
Quite Extraordinary Television

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
InkspotsBLOOM COUNTY
m3nsc mnsmcim, vmv NomtNb...No.Nommrp fino pmmeidsmtM 
fflemiNbu/m'WRffumsTDmwK
Tarri nOH/ LOCA /
Tarri Po urnePERSIMMON / YES, TVE MI5SEP YOU,700 /
MAT'S THAT fMe f Paa oiwPARENTS FOR WE FIRST TTME? TOMORROW ? PINNER7 AT YOUR PLACE 7UH...ER...
Sarrt 
Pfoba yaSDyPtSSECTEP ANP NOTHING ? PtCKLEP ALIVE BY ALIENS.
ufk&&& ra wm lPmm&&& oiwV4a 
yakDy lkbfDin we i PaaYOUR FUTURE IN-LAWS ANP
oiSb f urne DaZiwm&
.MPnem/memrHWITH 'WttT WARP*/ Y&W, I'MRBflPf 7b ~fxe fxet.?xt.? flii
vw'Re f ume mKms.m.tumrm 
 um'usm/Ne To ine fit'Frrs...m A
ume
NemsI KNOT
fittine^ 
IKI
PURfNG WE MILLENNIA THAT MAN ANP FOWL HAVE SOUGHT ANP SNAREP WIVES...
 - bPiAKlNO OF WIFE 5NARIN6... WE INTERRUPT THE STORY FOR A SPECIALvmey mum:
OUR SOURCES REPORT THAT LUCKY HUSBANP *2 IS OeOROE *MR. SULU" TAKei OF "STAR TREK" FAME.
Boo-Boo the Barbarian
EXOTIC SINGER MARIE OSMONP WILL, REPEAT. WILL BB MARRYING AGAIN.
WE NOW RETURN ID THE STORY IN PROGRESS...
HOLP tr /WE AGAIN INTERRUPT FOR A OPEC!ALmKLBY MLtfTlti CORRECTION":
PUB TO A TYPOGRAPHICAL ERROR, YESTERPAY WE MISTAKENLY REPORTEP THAT MAR/B OSMONP PLANNEP TV WEPoeoRbe m mwrwV f4ar
r*C\ WE'RE TERRIBLY V,  EMBARRASSeP...
PuRING THE MILLENNIA THAT MAN ANP FOWL HA/E SOUGHT ANP SNAREP WIVES...
IN REAUTY, MS. OSMONP WILL BE MARRYING MR OLAF &RKJM GIBSON, G7, OF MORMON FLATS, UTAH. SHE'LL BE MOVING IN WITH HIS 139 Wived.In IW 9Ci I Wte A tttiPef Y*6**u*$| x ftvukUM CMJftqEp
Hqhi^ j ru^gm. vm*p was #m
WE NOW RETURN TO THE STORY IN PROGRESS.THFKTS SlR. WEHAVEOHE -RECRUIT. Wf AVE OTHERS UNDER OBSERVATION
PURJNG THE MILLENNIA THAT MAN ANP FOWL HAVE SOUGHT ANP SNAREP WIVES, A TEST OF THEIR WORTHINESS HAS COME TO:<rS\ BE EXPECTEP...
...A FORM OF QUALITY CONTROL. AS ONE WOULP SNIFF PUBIOUS FISH BEFORE APPING IT TO THE SOUP.
ANP AS PR/MtTlve MAN MIGHT ONCE HAVE FACBP A SLOBBERM SABER-TOOTHEP TIGER TO ' PROVE HIS CHARACTER.. 
... SO. TOO, POES MOPERN MAN GO TO FACE HIS FUTURE IN-LAWS.
I BROUGHT ALONG A CfANtPE SUICIPE PILL. YOU NEVER/\ KNOW...
VrilfCHUCK, &\ 7D HELP tfil SOMEO^J
THAT'S WHfiCT THBr THINK, MYWW. ^
ANP IMENWNEP YOU'RE NICELY GOOFY.. ANP YOU WORK FOR A NEWSPAPER...
.ANP YOU WEAR A BOW VE.GET THE PIP. MY FOLKS ARE PUB ANY MINUTE.WELL, ITOLP THBM YOU CAME PROM THE SEA., ANP THAT YOU'RE EASILY UPSET.
BA CK IN ?mIgvrftTm
/wec-ToR?
EQULM
MO?VvO0D?--Atf, ;
. JArLL.se qfs/h
IN OTHER WORPS, A SORT OF (jOPZILLAGEORGE WILL TYPE OF PUPP Y 
GREAT/
LOLA..THEY PO KNOW EXACTLY WHAT THEY'RE SETTING FOR A SON-IN-LAW, PON'TTWYfY
JOURNALIST..GOOFY...
oafT NafTt
FROM THE OCEAN... ILLTEMPEREP., 
YEAH... YEAH...

---------------------------------------------------

by Kurt Shaw You Are Here by Nadini Sudd, Ltd.
$ * JS M 

---------------------------------------------------

Page D6The TartanOctober 28,1986
Tchaikovsky, Samuel Barber, and Schuman on campus
By KARYN SILVA
Tartan Music Critic
A small but appreciative audience attended 
Camegie-Mellon Philharmonic's perform
ance on Sunday October 19 in the Kresge 
Theatre. Under the direction of Keith 
Lockhart the Philharmonic presented a well 
chosen and entertaining program that 
illustrated the technique and musicality of 
the musicians. On the program was 
Kabalevskys Oveture to Colas Bruegnon, 
First Essay for Orchestra by Samuel Barber, 
New England Tryptich by William Schuman 
and Tchaikovskys Symphony No5 in E 
Minor.
The evening began on a humorous note 
when Lockhart discovered that his scores had 
not been placed on his stand. He explained to 
the audience that "They told me there would 
be concerts like this." Professionalism 
returned once the music began. Lockhart is a 
fluid but exact and clear conductor who 
seems to have good rapport with the 
musicians as they responded well to his 
direction.
The concert opened with Oveture to Colas 
Bruegnon. This piece is from an opera that 
was based on the novel Colas Bruegnon by 
Romain Rolland. The story revolves on the
thoughts of a craftsman from Burgandy 
during the age of Rabelais. The debut of 
Colas Bruegnon was in Lenigrad on 
February 22, 1938. The opening to this 
work is very fast and stirring-a showcase of 
the musicians technique. The orchestra 
created a very full and well developed sound.
First Essay for Orchestra by Samuel Barber 
ws written at the request of Arturo Toscanini 
and was premiered in 1938 during Barber's
Billings (1746-1800) an American composer 
who embodied the patriotic furvor of the 
Revolutionary period in his music. The first 
song of Billing's that comprises Schuman's 
composition is "Be Glad Then, America." 
This portion opens with a light timpani solo 
that leads to a short and slow introduction in 
the string section. The piece gains 
momentum with the entrances of the brass 
section and the music grows until it reaches
9&mmwmmmmmmmi:  ' :if ?:>:>>:.& je-.? -x ?:*  :$ S1 M I 1^
 S : ::c;
*$:> 4$ $ W S: IH J1 m
.  : :
1 S  I 1 i i S l 8 t 1ill tffife
second year with the NBC Orchestra. This 
work begins with the violas playing a slow 
and sad theme that is later taken up with a 
purity of sound by the horns and the violins. 
A scherzolike section followa this that is at 
first sorrowful but then becomes strong and 
imposing as the music returns to the heavy 
quality of sound that marked the opening.
Also performed before intermission was 
Schuman's New England Tryptich. This 
piece is based on three songs by William
reoc111. .PwS
o'Eur opeanSt odp risGOnSa
Need High Fashion Designer and
Vintage Clothes at 
Rock Bottom Low Prices?
It's Here...Right near Campus
Designer Dress Days
Syria Mosque 
9 AM8 PM
Sunday, Nov. 2nd 
Monday, Nov. 3rd
Almost new and brand new clothes 
at a small fraction of the original price ...
75% oft ana more 
Womens Coats, Suits, Dresses, Sportswear. Accessories 
....and Fabulous Furs, Gowns, and Jewelery 
....MENS, CHILDRENS, MATERNITY, TOO.
CASH AND CHECKS ONLY 
$2.00 admission includes door prizes and raffle 
sponsored by National Council of Jewish Women 
to benefit Community Service Projects.
a climax. "When Jesus Wept" is the next 
secton which is in the form of a round, and 
last was "Chester" a song that illustrated 
Lockhart's control over the orchestra due to 
the dynamic contrasts that he coaxed. This 
song was originally composed as a church 
hymn but was later adopted by the 
Continental Army as a marching song.
After intermission, during which the 
members of the philharmonic mingled with 
the audience, the performance continued with
an excellent rendition of Tchaikovsky's 
Symphony No5 in E Minor. This was 
defmetly the most dramatic piece of the 
concert and it served as a stirring finale to 
the concert. Symphony No. 5 was thought 
by its composem to be a failure after its first 
performance in St. Petersburgh in November 
of 1888. According to Tchaikovsky the first 
movement is an introduction (Andante) that 
symbolizes complete resignation before fate. 
The Allegro portion of this movement is 
supposed to represent murmers doubts and 
reproaches. The piece begins grave and 
solemn with horn and bass and then it leaps 
into the Allegro which is in Sonata form. 
The Allegro of the first movement is an 
energetic dialogue between the sections that 
eventually dies down' to the same calm 
resignation as the opening, ending with a 
deep sound in the strings. The second 
movement begins similar to the ending of 
the first but it builds with a well played horn 
solo and then a shattering reemergence of the 
theme. There was a considerable amount of 
energy that even lent itself to the slow and 
compelling ending. This movement, 
according to Tchaikovsky, was to be te 
decision to accept faith.
continued on page D7
At Forbes At Forbes At Forbes
This weeks show at Forbes, features 
work by Deborah Jaffe, Monty ChomeleyJones ,and Jesse Gazis, and along with 
presenting a diverse selection of work, 
celebrates the halloween season.
Unlike the usual Tuesday opening, this 
week's will be held on Friday evening to 
coincide with halloween festivities. 
The work presented will cover many
approaches to media, including photo
graphs and slides from various continents 
by Deborah, sculpture and installation 
work by Monty , and portraits of the 
three artists by Jesse.
All are invited to attend the opening and 
the exhibition, which will run from 
October 28 through November 2.
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center..............266-2922
After 5:00 p.m., an answering service operator will help you reach 
the staff member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh...........................................................7824023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection..................................................................66441700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel-Aid.................................................... ..........................261-4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe* 
ty Issues. lists of titles appear in the blue peges of the Pittsburgh 
telephone dsectory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.
Now.. .Two Pregnancy Testing Locations
Oakland DowntownRoom 212 107 Sixth StreetParkvale Plaza Buildings 300 Fulton Building3520 Fbrbes Ave. (oor. Meyran) Pittsburgh, PA 15222 Pittsburgh, PA 15213 (412) 562-1900(412) 683-3730
Women's Health Services,
Free pregnancy testing daily. Call for hours and instructions. 
Abortion services and confidential counseling available.

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1986The TartanPage D7
___________ ?
CMU Philharmonic Classifieds
continued from page D6After the Philharmonic retuned their 
instruments the third movement began. It is 
a waltz melody based on an Italian street 
song, featuring a lilting melody in the 
strings and the woodwinds. Following this 
sweet section was the fourth movement 
which transformed gloom into triumph. The 
dynamic level dropped and soared with 
varying textures of music. At times it was 
fiery and, energetic and at other times it was 
soft and spiraling but it never lost the energy 
and spirit. The ending Was rich and full with 
a majestic tone. This piece was obviously 
the audiences favorite and Lockhart 
recognized the philharmonic for their fine 
performance. In the future please take note of 
the Camegie-Mellon Philharmonic's 
performances and take the time out to see 
them because it will be worth the effort to 
enjoy the on-campus talent that we have.
CMUsic concert
PITTSBURGHThe Carnegie Mellon 
Chamber Orchestra will open its 1986-87 
season with a concert at 8 p.m., Sunday, 
Nov. 2, in the Alumni Concert Hall of 
Carnegie Mellon's College of Fine Arts.
The concert program will include the 
overture to Rossini's "La Cenerentola," 
Stravinsky's "Danses Concertantes," Ive's 
"Central Park in the Dark" and Mozart's 
Symphony #39 in E flat major. Keith 
Lockhart will conduct.
PSO Radio Series
PITTSBURGHFor the third consecutive 
year the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra 
returns to the National Public Radio 
airwaves with a 26-week series of radio 
concert broadcasts. Beginning this month, 
the Pittsburgh Symphony's Sound of 
Excellence series offers performances by one 
of the nation's finest orchestras showcased in 
a unique format, with narration and 
background that provides special insight into 
the works, the composers and the artists.
This season's rich listening experiences 
provided through the Pittsburgh Symphonys
On the radio. On the 
the radio. Or 
. the radio 
the 
On 
idio i the
On the radio 
*adio. On the 
:he radio.
3nl adio
:he
On
ra
h
On the radioT OrTthe^radio. (Jn the 
*adio. On the radio. On the radio. Or 
he radio. On the radio. On the radio
programs can be heard on over two hundred 
NPR member stations across the country.
Highlighting the 1986-87 series will be a 
Beethoven Concerto
Cycle in November and a Salute to 
American Maestros during March. Among 
the distinguished conductors who will be 
featured during the year are the Orchestra's 
music director designate Lorin Maazel, 
Charles Dutoit, Michael Tilson Thomas, 
Edo de Waart, Herbert Blomstedt and Dennis 
Russell Davies.
Celebrated soloists adding their brilliant 
artistry to the broadcasts will include 
pianists Alicia de Larrocha, Horacio 
Gutierrez, Andre Watts and Alexis 
Weissenberg, and violinists Kyung-Wha 
Chung, Salvatore Accardo and Elmar 
Oliveira.
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra series 
is a production of national Public Radio in 
cooperation with NPR member station 
WQED-FM/Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Major funding for the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra Series is provided by a grant from 
the H. J. Heinz Company.
International Students: Guide to
Greencard from F/J/H visas. For details, send 
$1.00 (P & H): Immgration Publications, 
P.O. Box 515991, Dallas, TX 75251.
Banners for all occasions...Games, 
parties, graduation, homecoming. Same day 
service, nationwide delivery. Low prices 
$4/ft. Call sign express 264-757.
Gain experience and earn money 
while wording on Fortune 500 Compaies 
Marketing Programs on campus! Flexible 
hours each week. Call 1-800-821-1543.
Word processing serviceIBM 
Display write. Resumes, cover letters, 
termpapers, dissertations, thesis. North 
Hills, 935-6231. Call after 1:30 p.m.
Build a strong and sexy body through 
a personalized weight training program. Lose 
fat and gain muscle. An experienced fitness 
consultant will design a personal workout 
and nutritional plan, provide motivation, and 
guide you through every session. Great 
student rates available. Call Adam's Muscle 
Source at 682-1434.
Babysitter needed. Regent Square home. 
Two days per week, some evenings. Must 
have experience with infants and babysitting 
references. Call 371-3842 after 6 p.m. 
Wanted: babysitterSome housework,
experienced, mature and reliable, educated, in 
Squirrel Hill. Part time. 521-2886 after 6.
Is it true you can buy Jeeps for $44 
through the U.S. Government? Get the facts 
today! Call 1-312-742-1142, ext. 3401-A. 
Young attorney with business 
experience, management skills, capital and
an entrepreneurial spirit desires a partnership 
with individual(s) possessing a marketable 
idea. I am tired of creating wealth for others. 
Let's create wealth together. Send 
information to A. Vann, 5740 Howe Street 
Apt. #2, Pgh., PA 15213.
Rabbi Joe would like to express his 
appreciation to all High Holyday readers who 
took part in the service. Please be kind 
enough to call 621-8875 and leave your 
name, number and campus address, so Rabbi 
Joe can properly thank you.
Permanent hair removalJane 
Malzlech and Associates Registered
Electrologists, recommended by physicians. 
355 Fifth Ave. (downtown) 642-4451; 3347 
Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 687-3993. Facials, 
manicures, pedicures, waxing.
Wanted!!! Aggressive, enthusiastic 
students to market winter and spring break 
vacations! For more information, call
Student Travel Services at 1-800-648-4849. 
Delivery persons. Enjoy freedom,
flexible hours, and above average wages ($6- 
$9 per hour) as a delivery person for 
Dominos Pizza. No experience neccessary. 
You qualify if you are at least 18, have a car 
with insurance, and a good driving record. 
Apply in person at: 315 N. Craig St. or 623 
Greenfield Ave.
Student papers, resumes, and cover 
letters. Two word processors for prompt 
service. Work picked up or returned to 
Oakland Mondays and Thursdays. Call for 
details. Betty-Seton Secretarial Service. 
793-5804.
$60.00 per hundred paid for remailing 
letters from home! Send self-addressed,
stamped envelope for information 
/application. Associates, Box 95-B, Roselle, 
NJ 07203.
Word processing by a professional 
typistdiscount to college
students. Will pick up and deliver. 
24-hour answering center. Call 653- 
2426.
Research papers: 15,278 available!
Catalog $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, 
#206XT, Los Angeles 900 25. Toll-free 
hotline: 800-351-0222, ext. 33. Visa/MC or 
COD.
CMU band "Secondary Modem" will 
perform as part of the Tri-State Rock 
Competition this Saturday, Nov 1 at City 
Limits, Penn Hills. Tix $5 at door. For 
info call Dan or Eric 682-3156.
<DK and KKT 
present 
their annual 
Halloween mixer 
to benefit 
Children's Hospital.
Prizes for best costume
Raffle
Donations of $2.00 
at the door. Begin at 
10pm Friday, October 31.
Juniors,Seniors & Grads...
GIVE YOURSELF
SOME CREDIT!
APPLY NOW I0R YOUR VERY OWN 
 Bring a photocopy of
your School 1.0.
 No cosigner required 
APPLY NOW ON CAMPUS!
 Citicorp. 1986
Date: Oct. 27, 28, 29 
Time* 9:00 am-5:00 pm 
Place: Skibo Grey MatterCmBANKO
OBbank (South Dakota), N A Mambar FOC

---------------------------------------------------

Page D8The TartanOctober 28, 1986
Announcements
Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 pm and 5 pm on 
Monday, November 3, in his office, 602 
Warner Hall. Students who wish to meet with 
the president should telephone his secretary 
at 268-2200 to set up an appointment.
Library Schedule: Hunt Library: Monday -
Thursday, 8 am - 3 am; Friday, 8 am - 
midnight; Saturday, 9 am - midnight; 
Sunday, noon - 3 am. Engineering and 
Science Library: Monday - Thursday, 8 am -
midnight; Friday, 8 am - 6 pm; Saturday, 9 
am - 9 pm; Sunday, 10 am - midnight. 
Mellon Institute Library: Monday - Friday, 
8:30 am - 5 pm; Saturday and Sunday, closed.
Audio-Visual Services: Monday - Thursday,
8:30 am - 11 pm; Friday, 8:30 am - 5 pm; 
Saturday, noon - 5 pm; Sunday, noon - 11 
pm.
The Roman Catholic Chaplaincy
celebrates mass on campus at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday in Skibo room 39; 7 
pm, Saturdays and 10:30 am, Sundays in the 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium. A solemn mass is celebrated at 
noon on Sundays in Heinz Chapel. For more 
information call 681-3181.
All Saints Day is celebrated by the 
Roman Catholic Chaplaincy with masses on 
campus at 7 pm, Friday, October 31, and 1 
pm, Saturday, November 1, in the Graduate 
School of Industrial Administration 
Auditorium.
Buhl Science Center. "The Violent 
Universe." Veteran film actor Vincent Price 
takes audiences on a grand tour of "things 
that go bump in the night," the turbulent and 
dynamic activity of the universe in a 
seemingly tranquil starry night sky. Explore 
solar lasers, nova and supernova, the Milky 
Way's violent explosions and possible black 
hole and the Big Bang  the fiery birth of 
the universe itself at 2 pm, Monday through 
Thursday; and 2 pm and 4 pm, Sunday, 
through November 6.
Laserium. Journey to an energetic and 
colorful world where blazing lights and 
magical images glow and gyrate to music by 
rock's most spectacular artists in Laserium, 
presented live under the stars at 8 pm and 
9:15 pm, Thursday through Sunday; and 3 
pm, Saturday. For current concerts call 321- 
5554.
"Color," nineteen do-it-yourself modules
explore the mysteries behind everyday color 
phenomena. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 
pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
"Bio Corner," interact with newly-hatched 
chicks and ducklings  new ones hatching 
weekly. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 5 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more 
information call 321-4300.
Image Imagination," hands-on modules
explore amazing images -- let your 
imagination run wild. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, 
Saturday. For more information call 321- 
4300.
"Foucault Pendulum" displays proof of
Earths rotation. Permanent exhibit at 1 pm -
5 pm, Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 
pm, Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
The Right Moves." Youre the star 
performer in Buhls new action-packed exhibit 
exploring the body in motion! Exciting 
hands-on activities -- Momentum machine, 
Video Strobe, Pitch-It and more  let visitors 
investigate the mechanics of motion "step by 
step." Permanent exhibit at 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Sunday through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, 
Friday; and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For 
more information call 321-4300.
Miniature Railroad and Village. A Buhl 
tradition that has delighted visitors for 
generations! Trains, boats and dozens of tiny 
animations keep audiences spellbound! This 
season's exhibit sets the turn of the century 
countryside in each of the four seasons -
- don't miss it at 1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday 
through Thursday; 1 pm - 9:30 pm, Friday; 
and 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday. For more 
information call 321-4300.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Children's
Theatre. Jack and the Beanstalk. Do you 
know what A-D-V-E-N-T-U-R-E spells? Well, 
thats what happens to Jack when he climbs 
the beanstalk! See Jack battle the Giant! See 
the Giant's wacky wife! See the living Harp 
that comes to Jacks aid! It's high flying 
adventure with a lot of surprises at 11 am and 
2:30 pm, Saturdays; and 2:30 pm, Sundays, 
through November 16.
Events
Tuesday
Movies
Richart III, starring Laurence Olivier, John 
Gielgud, Ralph Richardson and Claire Bloom. 
Fine film version of Shakespeare's play about 
a mad English king and the many intrigues in 
his court. Olivier is just about perfect. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. Admission 
$2.95.
Lectures
Department of Architecture Lecture.
Professor Geoffrey Broadbent, Portsmouth 
Polytechnic School of Architecture, speaks 
on "Theory and Design in the PostMachine 
Age or Where is the Art in Architecture?" at 8 
pm in WeH 7500.
Dept. of Chemical Engineering
Seminar. Professor Robert A. Brown, 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 
speaks on "Models and Intelligent Materials 
Processing: A Case Study of Czochralski
Crystal Growth" at 11 am in DH room 1112.
Coffee and doughnuts are served at 10:45 am 
in conference room, DH 1102.
Dept, of Chemistry Colloquium. Dr. 
David Whitten, University of Rochester,
speaks on "Photochemical Studies of 
Surfactant Porhphyrins in Langmuir-Blodgett 
Assemblies and Detergent Solutions" at 4 pm 
in MI conference room. Coffee and doughnuts 
are served at 3:30 pm.
Workshops
Resume Writing. Get your resume off the 
ground by learning some basic guidelines. 
See examples and conduct a resume critique as 
if you were the personnel officer at 4:30 pm 
in Skibo room 12.
Special Events
French Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
English Table. The ESL (English as a 
Second Language) Center sponsors an English 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
Wednesday
Movies
The Lion in Winter, starring Katharine 
Hepburn, Peter OToole and Anthony 
Hopkins. High-powered performances and a 
sharp, witty script highlight this fictional 
account of Henry II and his family during one 
Christmas Eve. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
The Three Stooges (Who killed Doc 
Robbin), Scotland Yard. 9 pm and 11 pm, 
admission free.
Lectures
Dept, of Architecture Seminar. Julio 
Carrera speaks on "Boolean Operations for 
Solid Modeling" at 12:30 pm in CFA 206. 
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers Series. Len 
Roberts, poetry, speaks on her work at 8 pm 
in the Adamson Wing. For more information 
call x2850.
Workshops
Career Connections. Would you like 
help with exploring majors, investigating 
career goals, or initiating professional 
contacts? In a walkthrough setting, 
Carnegie Mellon alumni provide individual 
input to your career decisions. Alumni
available between 2 pm and 5 pm in Skibo 
Ballroom.
Special Events
Spanish Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
The Duquesne University Orchestra, 
performs at 8 pm in the Duquesne Union 
Ballroom. For more information call 434- 
6080.
Thursday
Movies
Bananas. Woody Allen gets mixed up in a 
revolution; and Sleeper. A man frozen in 
1973 is revived in 2173 with hilarious 
results. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Blood Simple, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. 
Admission $1.
Lectures
Dept. of Psychology Colloquium.
Dr. Frank Bellezza, Ohio University, Visiting 
Professor at Carnegie Mellon, speaks on "The 
ABCDS of Mental Cueing" at 4 pm in the 
Adamson Wing, BH. Coffee is served after 
the lecture in the Psychology Lounge, BH 
336-D.
Workshops
Cover Letter Writing. A traditional 
mass mailing of letters typically generates 
only a 3% response. Leam how to increase 
your results at 11:30 in Skibo room 12.
Special Events
TV Night at Scotland Yard. Watch 
NBC's Nielsen winning Thursday Lineup, 
from Cosby to Letterman, and in color.
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Program sponsors a German Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Carnegie Mellon Writers Guild
sponsors a reading at 7 pm at Forbes Gallery. 
Orthodox Christian Fellowship. The
Holy Land: a slideshow presentation and
discussion will be held at 7:30 pm in the 
Mellon Institute Conference Room. 
Refreshments will be served. Everyone 
welcome.
Friday
Movies
Brazil, starring Jonathan Pryce and Robert 
DeNiro. Wild, and often hilarious, film set in 
the future about England ruled by a
totalitarian regime. Tom Stoppard helped 
with the script. Visually exciting. DeNiro 
nearly steals the movie. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm, 9:40 pm and 11:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Ruthless People, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and
midnight. Admission $1.
Special Events
Masquerade Ball. Scotland Yard and AB 
host a Halloween bash you will not forget.
10 pm-??
Saturday
Movies
9 1/2 Weeks, starring Kim Basinger and 
Mickey Rourke. An erotic film about a man 
who attempts to exert his mastery over a
woman. Some steamy scenes. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30
pm. Admission $2.95.
Poltergeist II with "Vincent," sponsored 
by SDC Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 9 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.______________________
Send submissions to ACME 
c/o Public Relations
Special Events
Oberlein Conservatory Percussion 
Ensemble performs at 8 pm in the Duquesne 
University School of Music Recital Hall 
Admission is free. For more information call 
434-6080.
Special Events
Concert of Appalachian, Irish and 
Medieval Music. Scott Reiss and Tina 
Chancy, playing traditional instruments 
explore the relationship between folk music 
and the music of the Middle Ages. Sponsored 
by the Pittsburgh Chapter of the American 
Recorder Society at 8:30 pm in the Frick Fine 
Arts Auditorium, Unive sity of Pittsburgh.
Sunday
Movies
Silk Stockings, starring Fred Astaire, Cyd 
Charisse, Peter Lorre and Janis Paige. A 
musical version of Garbo's "Ninotchka" with 
some delightful Cole Porter songs including 
"All of You." Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:40 pm. Admission $2.95.
Europe in Film Series: The Grand
Illusion. Renoir's classic anti-war film 
captures the fading glory of aristocratic 
tradition through relations between a French 
and German officer in World War I. Adamson 
Wing, BH at 3 pm. Admission is free.
A Clockwork Orange, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 
pm. Admission $1.
Monday
Movies
Pumping Iron II: The Women. A kind
of documentary about women's bodybuilding 
activity, which climaxes in a contest in Las 
Vegas. With Bev Francis. Bring your pecs, 
lats and delts. Pittsburg Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
If you wish to place an announcement, 
miscellaneous item, or event in The 
Tartan, send it to ACME / University 
Relations / Carnegie Mellon University / 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Send it by campus 
mail to the above address or drop it off at 
5017 Forbes Ave (The house between Delta 
Upsilon and ATO).
Please include the following information 
when submitting events: Title of event,
sponsor, brief description, location, date, and 
time. In addition, include the name and 
phone number of the person submitting the 
entry; this information will be used only to 
confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the 
accuracy or validity of any Event listing. In 
addition, it reserves the right to edit or omit 
any listing for publication.
Classified ads are taken in our office, Skibo 
Rm 50, only, and will not be taken over the 
phone.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for ACME submissions is 
Wednesday at 5 pm for the next 
weeks issue.
This week in DH 2210:
Thursday:
Blood Simple
6,8, & 10
Friday:
Ruthless People
6,8,10, & 12
Saturday:
Poltergeist II 
6,8,10, & 12
Sunday:
A Clockwork Orange 
6,8:30, & 11

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1986The TartanPagel 1
Rap to Reggae: 'RCT Offers Listenable Alternatives
By BILL WRBICAN
C-MU is intended to be an educational 
experience. Accomplishing this end is not 
only the domain of the classroom but of 
other activities as well. As the student radio
Column
station, WRCT is helping to fulfill a need in 
the form of contemporary music education.
RCT presents music that will not be 
played anywhere else in Pittsburgh, yet 
many people find they enjoy after listening 
to it. The DJ's at WRCT often haven't heard 
of many of the records or bands until a few 
weeks ago. But, through open minds and 
ears, we pick up on it and try to pass our 
enjoyment on to the audience.
There are many small, independent record 
labels in the world which are not affiliated 
with Warner Brothers or Columbia. WRCTs 
programming emphasizes the independent 
labels and their artists because they are
working against the homogeneous top-40 
sound being presented by the large labels.
WRCT does not deal exclusively 
with rock, either. The station has
Pittsburgh's finest jazz shows, featuring 
everything from traditional to the most avantgarde forms. 'RCT is also practically the 
only source in the city for rap, hardcore, 
blues and reggae. These programs are 
presented by people who know and love the 
music. And they're students like you.
From top to bottom, the day-to-day 
operation of WRCT is done by students. As 
General Manager, I was elected by the staff 
to run the station, the only station in town 
where it is an elected position. Clare Rosen 
is in charge of the programming and Dave 
Miller is the Music Director. All of the 
engineering to keep the station on the air is 
done by students, too. The budget and 
finances are controlled by Student Senate and 
Student Affairs. Overall, WRCT is the 
largest student organization on campus with 
a staff of over 100 people.
Unlike most college stations, WRCT is 
not here to provide a training ground for 
communications majors. Rather, the staff of 
WRCT is interested in presenting their 
music and viewpoints to the campus and 
community-at-large.
Public and Campus Affairs is an often 
overlooked service that WRCT provides. 
Along with the only available broadcast 
coverage of C-MU football, basketball, and 
hockey, WRCT presents a call-in campus 
sports show, "Sportsline," Tuesday evenings 
at 6. Thursday at 9pm, a call-in interview 
program deals with campus and public issues 
such as abortion, apartheid, and sexism. 
Student Senate is also working on a weekly 
talk show which will be airing soon. On top 
of all that, once a semester WRCT features a 
call-in interview with President Cyert. These 
shows offer a forum for all students to 
partcipate and voice their views.
For students who don't have the time for a 
daily newspaper or newscast, WRCT offers 
daily newscasts at 12:30, 5:30, and 10:30. 
The news is the latest from the Associated
Press. The Radio Calendar, at 
8am, 1, 7, and 11pm, tells of current 
exhibitions, movies and shows which are 
being held on the campus and in the 
community. If you are involved in an 
organization and have an announcement you 
would like aired, mail it to WRCT and it 
will be.
A few weeks ago, the WRCT Fall 
Program Guide was published in The Tartan. 
Find one and pick out a few shows to listen 
to. You may actually enjoy it. If you've 
only listened a few times and heard 
something you didn't like, listen again. 
You'll probably find something you do like. 
The important point to remember is that 
WRCT often changes music styles every 3 
hours. What was jazz in the morning may 
well be rock and roll by noon. Just keep 
listening, though. WRCT is a continually 
renewing resource for music and a live 
campus forum.
Wrbican, a senior in Technical Writing, is 
the General Manager of WRCT, the 
Carnegie Mellon campus radio station.
Letters Cont.:
IVCF Explains Motives in Bible Distribution
were made last May, the leadership team 
believed that this activity would create 
signification interaction with the entire 
campus community. After gaining approval 
from administration in September, we 
ordered 4,000 copies of the Mew 
International Version of the New Testament 
so that everyone on campus that day had a 
chance to receive a copy. We would like to
Editor:
The members of Carnegie Mellon's chapter 
of Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship 
(IVCF) ask you to provide us an opportunity 
to clearly explain our motivation in 
distributing New Testaments to the campus 
community. I serve as the chapter president, 
and am writing on their behalf.
When the plans for the Bible distribution
Student Criticizes Service of Student Affairs
apologize to those of you who had more 
chances than what you wanted to. We 
distributed copies of the New Testament 
instead of copies of the complete Bible (Old 
and New Testaments), because of cost. We 
are not funded by the Student Activities Fee. 
If you wanted a copy of both would be 
happy to give you one if you come to Room
39 in Skibo between 6:00-6:30 p.m.
Editor:
On September 11 at 4:30 a.m. I woke up 
to find a stranger in my room. This was 
listed in the Crime and Incident report of The 
Tartan on September 23 under the heading of 
"Indecent Exposure". I think a more 
appropriate heading woud have been 
Breaking and Entering. No one was 
indecently exposed. Although my door was 
closed, it was unlocked. That was an error on 
my part and yet it is not justification for (he 
event that took place  a CMU student 
came into my room, uninvited and 
unannounced and behaved as if the room 
were his own. I called Security and they 
notified Student Affairs, as is the standard 
procedure. I can only hope however, that the 
manner in which my case was handled is not 
standard procedure, namely that after I was 
initially contacted by Student Affairs I 
waited over two weeks before I was notified 
that any action was taken against the 
individual.
When I was first called by a representative 
of Student Affairs, I felt confident that the
situation would be handled in the appropriate 
way. I was told the perpetrator would be 
contacted immediately and that a meeting 
would be arrangred soon after to discuss the 
event. I waited for nearly two weeks for 
information about what was being done 
when I finally decided to call Student Affairs 
myself on September 24 to find out what 
was happening. When I reached the person I 
had originally spoken to about the incident, 
he did not seem to remember who I was, or 
why I had called until I re-explained the 
incident. Again I was left with a promise to 
be contacted with information.
Two days later I received a phone call from 
Student Affairs. Not only was I called to be 
informed of the action that was taking place 
in response to the event of September 11,1 
was also "reminded" of a report filed last 
March that had my name on it. I was 
confused by the mentioning of the event of 
last March. I had never been contacted by 
Student Affairs in reference to the episode 
before, why was it suddenly being brought 
up now? The two events were unrelated as
the Student Affairs representative even 
admitted.
A student should not have to be a model 
student to get justice from Student Affairs. 
Yes, I did leave my door unlocked and I have 
learned not to do it again, but I should not 
be the only person who learns from this 
experience. I wanted to bring my situation to 
the attention of the other students and 
hopefully other cases brought to the 
attention of Student Affairs will be handled 
more professionally.
The Morewood Resident
Mondays through Saturdays.
We wanted everyone to have a copy of the 
New Testament because we wholeheartedly 
believe that the Bible is God's Word given to 
us. We believe that the personal decision 
that we make about "Who is Jesus Christ?" 
is the most important decision we make in 
our whole lives. We suggest you read the 
Gospel of John in your New Testament, 
beginning on page 165, and decide for 
yourself who Jesus Christ is...A liar? A 
lunatic? Or is He as He claimed to be, the 
Son of God, Messiah? We would also invite 
anyone who is interested to participate in 
one of our small group Bible studies that are 
held in many locations on campus. Consult 
the insert in your New Testament for times 
and locations.
We thank Dean Lois Cox for granting us 
admnistrative approval for the distribution, 
you the editor, and members of this 
university comunity for your kind 
understanding.
Matt Parker
Ex-SAMS Chair Makes Correction
Editor:
I am writing this letter in response to your 
recent article on the Students Against 
Multiple Sclerosis fundraiser and the 
upcoming Bangles concert.
The article "The Bangles Are Coming...," 
was poorly researched, and did not provide 
some pertinent facts about the fundraiser. 
Theta Xi Fraternity raised $4,500 not "over 
$15,000" as the article stated. Your article 
also failed to acknowledge Food Services' 
donation of over $3,000 and Alpha Tau 
Omega, Delta Tau Delta, Alpha Phi Omega, 
Student Senate, and Residence Halls' 
donations of over $1.000. This is all in 
addition to the $3,500 that the Rock-Alike 
contest itself raised with the participation of 
the whole campus.
Your article gave the impression that Theta 
Xi raised almost all of the $23,600. 
Although Theta Xi did raise more than any 
other group on campus, the fact is that 
Students Against Multiple Sclerosis was 
truly a campus-wide effort with almost every 
faction on campus participating. I would 
also like to point out that the fundraiser was 
initiated at first by the Student Government 
and spread to cover the rest of the campus.
I am very proud of our achievement and 
would like everyone to know the facts so that 
Carnegie Mellon can again demonstrate the 
ability to gather together for a worthy cause.
Faramarz "Mouse" Shargh 
Chairman '85-'86
Students Against MS
The Tart a
'
111
Olve Peersen
Lisa D. McAnany
Editor-in-Chief
Andrew RobitshekManaging EditorBusiness Manager
Drue MillerJoshua M. LevineBruce Kasrel
News EditorFeatures EditorEntertainment Editor
John FriedmannRuth MatsumuraAndrew Gillespie
Sports EditorPhoto Darkroom EditorPhoto Assignment Editor
Kurt ShawAlbrecht T. PowellLisa Zito
Art EditorProduction ManagerAa Manager
John BabichKathryn A. SitterDave Levy
Dossier EditorTypesetting ManagerTartan Assistant
Vijay ReddyJack L. PollerNeil Green Hlum
Contributing EditorContributing EditorContributing tditor
The Tartan is the official student newspaper 
of Carnegie Melton University. It is a weekly 
newspaper, published each Tuesday during the fall 
and spring semesters by students at no cost to 
members of the university community. It is printed 
by Typecraft Press, Inc. Subscriptions are 
available for $15 per semester, $25 per year. The 
Editorial appearing at the beginning to the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The 
Tartan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan editorial board or staff Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the University community. 
A letter intended for publication must be
signed and include the writers address and 
phone number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves the 
right to condense or reject any letter or column. 
Copyright 1986 by The Tartan. The editorial 
board reserves the right to withhold from 
publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. 
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412) 268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan 
Box 17
Carnegie Mellon Univ. 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. AM rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12-The Tartan-October 28, 1986
Scotland Yard President Responds to Critique of Campus Pub
continued from page 10
pina colada and the strawberry daquiri 
(incidentally, the daquiri is our most 
popular drink). If you think of it as a 
patronizingly "fake daquiri", there are 
plenty of other drinks available.
An espresso machine would be great and 
we have been trying to get one from a 
company called the Coffee Development 
Group. This group sets up coffeehouses in 
clubs like Scotland Yard at minimal cost. 
As their quotas are filled for this year, we 
are on next year's waiting list. Espresso 
machines are expensive ($8,000) and we 
simply do not have the funds to buy one 
ourselves. Quality desserts are already a 
standard at the Yard. We buy all of our 
cakes from Three Rivers Delicacies, one of 
Pittsburgh's best bakeries (they were
written up in Gourmet magazine!).
Croissants and apple pie are other items 
we are experimenting with.
One of the nicer things at Scotland Yard 
is being served at your table. However, the 
service at Scotland Yard is slow. Although 
we did have a three day orientation session 
for all employees in August, it seems that 
there are still problems that need ironing 
out and another training session would 
certainly be beneficial. One of the best 
ways for a customer to deal with this is to 
ask to see the student supervisor on duty.
When we opened up in November, we 
never expected the wait staff to receive tips. 
Since it has caught on, tipping at Scotland 
Yard is optional as it is in any restaurant 
or bar where you are served personally: If 
your service is good, leave a tip, if it is
Socialist Gives Views on U.S., Capitalism
Continued from page 7
students have to fight to the "outlawing of 
trade with South Africa, and the funding of 
liberation fighters," as well as dilvestment of 
the school's holdings.
Gray, who was chosen by the League to 
be their candidate, doesn't have specific plans 
yet, should she win. However, she is 
running on and plans to adhere to the basic 
premises of Socialism: guaranteed jobs for 
all, a 30-hour work week (with 40-hr. pay), 
worker control of the banks and industry, and 
an economy based upon need, not profit. 
Gray is opposed to the death penalty,
because it has been used to "oppress 
minorities." She is also against drug testing, 
because it is an invasion of privacy. Gray 
supports a womans right to abortion, and 
freedom of choice in religion, even though 
she is an atheist. While she doesn't approve 
of the way nuclear power is managed under 
capitalism, she feels that it is a valuable 
source of energy and could be utilized more 
efficiently and safely under a Socialist 
system.
Gray is taking a leave of absence from her 
studies to run for State Congress. She is 
currently waitressing at Howard Johnson's.
MEADE DATA CENTRAL
Information Session
Meade Data Central cordially invites 
Carnegie Mellon Computer Science 
students to attend a company sponsored 
information session.
Date: October 30, 1986
Time: 7-8pm
Place: Room 13, Skibo
MDC is a leader in the fast-growing 
electronic publishing industry.
If an environment of continuing technical 
and business challenge in a small company 
atmosphere is appealing, come visit with us 
on Thursday evening.
poor, do not. Nobody should expect a tip 
for sloppy service. Incidentally, black 
waist aprons have been ordered for the wait 
staff. This should make it easier to tell 
who they are.
I, too, wish that Scotland Yard had real 
china plates, real metal flatware and real 
Grey Poupon mustard in jars at the tables. 
However, it is necessary to face facts; 
people are not always honest. Since 
opening, the Yard has "lost" some 300 
glasses and cups. At an average of $2.00 
each, this becomes expensive. Another 
reason for the paper and plastic concerns the 
Health Department. To properly sanitize 
eating utensils it is necessary to purchase a 
very expensive industrial dishwasher which 
we have no money, room, or labor for. 
As to the mustard problem, yes, there is an 
excuse for the plastic squeezers. We opened 
in November with real Grey Poupon dijon 
style mustard (at $1.45 a jar). By the end 
of our first two 2 weeks, almost all of the 
jars were stolen. We just don't have that 
kind of money.
Lastly, I must attempt to explain the 
alcohol issue. Mr. Tallis makes it sound 
very easy to simply run out and buy a 
liquor license. The issue is actually very 
complex. First of all, a liquor license costs 
about $30,000 - $40,000 and Pittsburgh 
only has a limited number of licenses, all 
of which are filled. The city of Pittsburgh 
is trying to discourage alcohol on 
campuses. Duquesne, the only campus in 
the area with a liquor license, was forced to 
turn its pub into an ice cream parlour
because their liability insurance jumped 
from $400,000 to $500,000. CMU 
administration is trying to clean up the 
campus' image by discouraging alcohol and 
is dead set against an alcoholic pub. Is 
alcohol the only way to make the Yard a 
"common, default meeting place"? Must 
we not consider that more than half the 
campus is underage. It amuses me that 
most of the people complaining about the 
lack of beer at the pub are under 21. Do 
they suppose that we will not check I.D.? 
That we will irresponsibly serve to minors 
and risk being shut down and paying fines 
up to $5,000? At this point in time it is 
just impossible. I really do believe that the 
Yard can fill the student need for a place of 
our own, even without alcohol. With more 
student input and less silence on both sides, 
we will all soon find many more friendly 
faces and greater relaxation in the Yard. 
Anyone with ideas or criticisms is welcome 
to voice them Mondays at 4:30 in Scotland 
Yard, leave a note on the suggestion board, 
or come in and talk with us.
Katie Martinelli 
President, Scotland Yard
Correction: The English as a
Second Language Center (ESL), 
under the direction of Tom Huckin 
of the English Department, is not 
affiliated with the Speech Lab, and 
does not use these facilities to assist 
its students.
photo by Albrecht Powell 
and Drue Miller
Have you seen this woman ?
If not, you belong in 
the Tartan darkroom.
Come work for The Tartan
call x2111 or x2112 or by leaving a message 
on the bulletin board outside of Skibo
-workstudy preferred---------------------------------------------------

Features
Sexy Stud Sells Subscriptions
Bv JUDY HARABURDA and 
JENNI SEVERA
Tartan Staffwriters
Imagine, if you will, the following
scenario:
The man. He approaches, blond hair 
gleaming in the sun, pearly whites virtually
blinding you.
"Good morning, " he says in his thick 
British accent. You glance around to see if 
he is talking to you. He is and you smile. 
"How are you today?" He puts his hand on 
your shoulder.
"And may I say what a lovely sweater you 
have on."
You are certain that Destiny wilth a capital 
D has stuck out its mystical foot and tripped 
you into the arms of a blond demi-god. You 
are about to claim your undying love for
him when he says,
"Do you like to travel?"
"So do I."
"Have you ever been to Acapulco?"
"No? Me neither."
Your heart begins to pound, your palms 
get sweaty. Sunny Acapulcowhat a place 
for a honeymoon!!
"...and I only have 2,650 more magazine 
subscriptions to go! Do you have a 
checking account? CashStream?"
He approaches, blond 
hair gleaming in the 
sun, pearly whites 
virtually blinding you.
ugly head here at CMU. Each year 
unscrupulous individuals prey on naive 
college students. They wander through your 
dorm illegally, soliciting magazine 
subscriptions. They accost you on The Cut. 
They're everywhere-so BEWARE. If you've 
already been duped by their considerable 
charm, you are not alone.
This is not the only scam that lurks in the 
shadows on campus. In these darkened days, 
you can't even loan a Bic to a stranger 
without fear of getting back more than you 
bargained for. On several occasions in Hunt 
Library, a strange man has asked an 
unsuspecting student for a pen and later 
exposed himself.
99
He whips out a little plastic-coated list of 
magazines. Your heart begins to sink and 
you get that funny feeling in the pit of your 
stomachthe same feeling you get when 
you've devoured a hearty Kilte meal on 
Mexican night. Just when you thought he 
was done chewing your heart up and spitting 
it out, he delivers the final blow:
"I'll send you a postcard!!"
Yes, scamming once again has reared its
Anyone is susceptible to the reptilian 
tactics of these charlatans, but foreign 
students are expecially targeted. The Pigeon 
Drop scam, for example, takes advantage of 
foreign students' ignorance of the American 
banking system.
So the moral of the story is: Gone are the 
days when people said,"A stranger is a friend 
you haven't met." Now the saying is, 
"Every stranger is a potential con artist."
This isn't Gotham City. And if Batman 
and the Boy Wonder were here they would 
probably be picking your pocket. Seriously 
though, soliciting IS illegal at CMU and if 
you ever see suspicious-looking stranger, 
especially in your dorm, call security at 
x2323 immediately.
Please always remember and don't ever 
forget:
"Forewarned is forearmed."
...and you'd be surprised what a forearm 
could do to a potential mugger.
8 Wavs to Be a Scambuster
8. Be paranoid. Better paranoid than sorry.
7. Keep your door locked. You never know 
what could slither into your room-and we re 
not talking cockroaches.
6. Mom was right-Don't talk to strangers.
5. If someone approaches you to sell 
something, don't buy it (figuratively or 
literally).
4. Don't trust anybody. If you so much as 
suspect your best friend is possessively 
eyeing your toaster oven, call x2323 
immediately if not sooner.
3. Don't fall for a pretty face. You'd be 
surprised what plastic surgery has done.
2. Contrary to popular belief, if a man 
youve never seen before suddenly offers you 
flowers, it's more than likely not Impulse. 
You probably just look like a gullible 
schmuck and he's got some swampland in 
Florida for you.
1. If you're aware you're being scammed, 
play along and have fun. For example, if 
you know you have no money left in your 
checking account, write him a check for 15 
magazines that bounces like a Tartan burger.
Banish Sugar in 19 Easy Lessons
By JENNI SEVERA
Tartan Staffwriter
Before reading this article, take the 
following quiz, answering true or false to 
each question.
QjM
1) I never have cravings for sugar, 
chocolate, peanut butter, or anything sweet.
2) I can stop after one piece of candy or one 
bit of pastry.
3) I can have candy and other sweets in my 
dorm room and not eat them.
I admit it  I answered false to each and 
every one of these questions. I have cravings 
for sugar 24 hours a day. I'd need the 
willpower of Superman to stop myself after 
one piece of candy or bit of pastry. And if 
there are sweets in my room (which there 
always are), I devour them. Yes, the cold, 
unpalatable fact is . . .
Im a sugarholic.
My first childhood memory is of Grandma 
pulling a batch of chocolate chip cookies out 
of the oven and saying, "These are all for my 
little Jen-Jen."
Its been one long downhill swoop ever 
since.
Vou see, its a personal affront in my 
family to turn down any home-made culinary 
concoction. And I ask you, how was I 
suPposed to refuse each time a plump, jolly
great-aunt said, "And I made these just 
because you like them, Jenni." We're talking 
cardinal sin here! And what am I supposed to 
do here, where the most edible part of the 
meal is dessert? And just recently, my Aunt 
Marilyn sent me 108 Dum-Dum lollipops
 my utter, absolute favorite. What do you 
expect me to do with them  give them 
away? After she went through all the trouble 
of packing them and paying the postage?
Unfortunately, according to Nancy 
Appleton, author of the new book Lick the 
Sugar Habit, my sweet tooth is slowly but 
surely taking a bite out of my life.
According to Dr. Appleton, who has a 
Ph.D. in Nutrition, an overabundance of 
sugar upsets the body chemistry and can lead 
to diseases such as osteoperosis, arthritis, 
cancer, and heart disease, not to mention the 
fact that it causes obesity and tooth decay. 
The Girl Scouts never tell you that when 
they offer you their cookies. In her book. 
Dr. Appleton admits that she was a fellow 
sugarholic herself and gives info on sugarrelated food allergies, some simple 
techniques on how to overcome sugar 
cravings, and some low-sugar food plans.
I dont know. The book itself is pretty 
interesting and if you're really into the "get 
healthy  you are what you eat" scene, the 
book would probably be very helpful for 
you. As for me, I do now realize, after 
reading it, that I need to cut down on my 
sugar intake . . .
But I'll be darned if I'm going to give up 
my 108 Dum-Dums!
Sugar addiction upsers your whole body chemistry. 
Now learn how you can...
^ I, Tk Ci i/N/Nrm i Then Sugar
Nancy Appleton, Ph.D.
O

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanOctober 28, 1986
Tai Chi: Ancient Chinese Secret for Health
By JUDY HARABURD
Tartan Staffwriter
Interested in finding the mystical fountain 
of youth? Look no further. Tai Chi Chuan, 
a wholistic exercise program, has been called 
"the pathway to eternal youth."
Tai Chi, an ancient exercise, originated in 
the 13th century in China. Taoist priests 
practiced it as part of their religious rituals. 
Aristocrats hired priests as instructors at 
great expense and practiced it in their private 
gardens. The public practice of Tai Chi did 
not begin until much later. In 1956, experts 
in martial arts developed simplified Tai Chi 
by reducing the 108 movements to 24 basic 
forms. Through the television and radio, Tai 
Chi became very popular in China, with 
approximately one tenth of the population 
practicing it, particularly for a half hour in 
the very early morning in public parks.
The basic elements of training in Tai Chi 
include: high concentration of the mind on 
performing the exercises (totally free from 
distractions); relaxing, fluid, graceful and 
slow movement of the whole body; and 
deep, natural breathing coordinated with 
every movement.
Tai Chi has been called a form of self
hypnosis because the deep breathing and
concentration induce a semi-conscious state 
that is more relaxing and restful than sleep
The beneficial effects on health include 
increased lung capacity, more flexible and 
stronger joints, greater coordination 
prevention of arthritis, stress relief, and 
weight control. Tai Chi is also used as 
therapy in preventing and curing hean 
disease. It quickens the flow of vital energy, 
but the heart rate, in synchronism with the 
rhythmic movements, does not increase as 
with other exercises. The non-strenuous 
nature of this exercise makes it suitable for 
women.
Classes in Tai Chi Chuan are given by 
enthusiastic instructor Bob Baobing Lin 
every Friday from 4:30 to 6:00 in Room 15 
of Skibo. Mr. Lin, in the United States for 
only three years, was trained in acupuncture 
and massage therapy in Beijing, where he 
also taught English for 20 years. Mr. Lin 
currently teaches at the Pittsburgh Athletic 
Association, Pitt, CMU, Kingsley 
Association, Learning Unlimited, and the 
YWCA. Mr. Lin emphasizes that Tai Chi 
easily fits into a busy schedule and that Tai 
Chi, as a wholistic exercise program deters 
aging and coordinates the body and mind into 
a flowing, rhythmic whole.
Two
fisted
Ear
Strife
iepulsin Strofe 
fyConfey the
Peacocks
T'ait
Wave
Hands
Life
Clouds
 QoCden Strum. 
CocHi the
Stands Lute
on one 
Leg
 Maiden
Uses
Shuttles
9{eedle 
Qoes to 
Sea
Bottom
CONGRATULATIONS 
SUSAN!
We're so proud to call you SISTER!
Love, your sisters in 
CHI OMEGA
USED BOOKS AT 
BARGAIN PRICES 
Bryn Mawr-Vassar Book Store
4612 Winthrop Street 
Oakland (Off Craig St)
Tuesday through Saturday 
10am-4pm 
Closed Nov. 27-30 and Dec. 25-Jan. 1 
Books Make the Nicest Gifts
NEW YORK
THANKSGIVING 
ROUND TRIP
VIA
USAIR
Depart Pittsburgh Nov 26, 5:10pm 
Depart Newark Nov 30, 5:40pm
$118oo *
* Seats are limited 
?Prices subject to change
TRAVEL ENTERPRISE, INC. 
366-7855
... is special. It means being bright, 
innovative, curious and thoughtful, 
eager to turn technical problems into 
solutions. It means a willingness to take 
chances, to expose ideas to testing and 
the challenges of colleagues. People 
who learn by sharing and by teaching
1 * I * I i I ===== '1------
others, who yearn to play with and 
develop ideas, are rare. We have them 
at BBN. Actually, we pay people to play 
and to stretch their genuine intelli
gence. Want to join them?
We are interviewing at CamegieMellon November 21.
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.
K) Fawcett Street, Cambridge, MA 02238 
We are an equal opportunity employer m/f/v/h

---------------------------------------------------

Unibed Wy
fail M docflwDims 
ar@ cdDimnnin^E?
The elections for Student Senate 
seats will be held on 
November 18^ and 19^
These are the open seats:
Mellon College of Science: 4 seats 
Carnegie Institute of Technology: 5 seats 
Graduate School of Industrial Administration: 1 seat 
Humanities and Social Sciences: 3 seats 
College of Fine Arts: 2 seats 
Industrial Management: 1 seat
If you arc interested in running, petitions are available at 
Skibo Information Desk and they are due on Tuesday, 
November 4th at 5:00. Turn them in at Skibo 
Informaion Desk C/O A Phi O by the above date.
If you have any questions contact Peter Cohen at X2115, 
or attend any Senate meeting - Tuesdays at 7:00pm in the
Wherrett Room.
(Funded by the Activities Fee)
PUT YOUR 
COLLEGE DEGREE 
TO WORK.
Air Force Officer Training School is an excellent start to a challenging career as an Air Force Officer. We offer great starting pay, medical care, 30 days of vacation with pay each year and management opportunities. Contact an Air Force recruiter. Find out what Officer Training School can mean for you. Call
1U Robert A. Fantaske
(412) 687-7315 collect
I r
Boston University
WASHINGTON 
INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS
 Interested in learning aboutand working in  governmental and |xlitic al 
affairs in Washington. D.C.r Juniors and Seniors with .11 least a :*.<> average arc 
invited to appl\ for a one-sem^ter. lb credit learning experience in the 
nation's capital.
 Supervised internships based on vour specific interests ire arranged with 
members of Congress. Executive Branch agencies, media orgaui/ations. trade 
associations, public interest groups, coijxnate public-af fairs of I ices, and edue.ttioti associations.
 Seminars with leading government exerts. supervised b\ Boston I niversitv 
facultv. focus on legislative and current policv issues.
 Scholarship assistance is available. The application deadline tor the spring 
semester is October 27. 198b. For information and an application, complete 
and send the form below.
Please send information and an application for Boston L niversitv s Washington 
Internship Programs to:
Name
Telephont
Address
Suit

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16-The TartanOctober 28, 1986
AD Banner Honored by Pitt Lettermen
Courtesty CMU Sports Information Office
Jim Banner, director of athletics at 
Carnegie Mellon University, has been named 
a University of Pittsburgh Letterman of 
Distinction by the Pitt Varsity Letterman's 
Club.
A former three-year track and field 
letterman and track coach at Pitt, Banner was 
honored at halftime of Pitt's 1986 
Homecoming game against Navy, October 
25.
Banner earned his bachelor's degree at Pitt, 
where he was a star quarter-miler, in 1954. 
Following his graduation he was a history 
teacher and cross-country and track and field 
coach at Canonsburgs cross-country squad to 
69 wins in 80 meets and established a 
successful track and field program, 
developing several WPIAL and state
champions from 1954-60. Banner initiated 
the Canonsburg Invitational which under his 
direction became one of the foremost 
scholastic track meets in the country.
In 1961, Banner, who received his master's 
degree in physical education and athletic 
administration at West Virginia University, 
became an assistant coach at Pitt. Five years 
later Banner was promoted to head track and 
field and cross-country coach and established 
a reputation for success. In nine seasons at 
the helm Banner compiled a track record of 
72-26 and raised the Panthers into an eastern 
power. He produced 18 Eastern Champions, 
four NCAA Champions and 25 AllAmericans. Banner also introduced the Pitt 
outdoor and indoor track and field
invitationals, national showcases of
collegiate talent. In addition, he brought the
prestigious Intercollegiate Association of 
Amateur Athletes of America (IC4A) 
Champions to Pitt in 1974, the first and 
only year the event has been held somewhere 
other than the east coast.
In 1973, Banner, then president of the 
IC4A, was named head coach of the United 
States' All-Star track and field team and 
travelled abroad to West Germany, Austria, 
Italy, the Soviet Union and West Africa. He 
was also head coach of the United States' 
indoor track team in 1972 when the 
Americans competed against the Soviets in 
Richmond, Va.
Banner became director of athletics at 
Carnegie Mellon in 1975 and has elevated 
the athletic program to a position of 
prominence among NCAA Division III 
schools. Under Banner's direction Carnegie
Mellon has won over 35 conference 
championships and has made many 
appearance in NCAA regional and national 
championship events. Fourteen of 16 
intercollegiate sports have posted winning 
records since his arrival in 1975.
Past president of the National Track and 
Field Coaches Association, Banner is a 
member of the Western Pennsylvania and 
Washington County Halls of Fame. He has 
worked for several charitable organizations 
and presently sits on the board of directors 
for the Western Pennsylvania Chapter of the 
American Heart Association. He is a past 
recipient of Canonsburg's Outstanding 
Achievement Award.
Banner, a native of Canonsburg, is a vetem 
of the Korean War. He received the Purple 
Heart and the Silver Star.

---------------------------------------------------

Mi
rOctober 28, 1986The TartanPage 17
New and Improved - The IM Report
October 23. 1986
Xinrh Football
Commissioners:
MajorsPaul Pecora, 621-9124; 
IntermediateVic Banko, X5403; 
MinorVince Carozza, X5494; 
WomenDee Nyzio, X4608. 
Intermediate playoff gamesMonday, 
October 26; Tuesday, October 27; 
FinalThursday, October 29. Please check 
IM Bulletin Board for schedule changes and 
playoff dates.
Women's games have been scheduled. 
Please check with Mike to note when the 
women's games will be played.
Women's Touch Football results 
KK6 50 vs. TX 8.
Tennis
Commissioner: Rob Schlackman, X5518.
Playoff schedules is posted on IM Bulletin 
Board. Please report winning scores to the 
comissioner or IM Office. Please get Tennis 
completed before bad weather arrives. Finals 
(Slap & Tickle vs. Phi Kap) must be played 
this week!
Mfeler Polo
Commissioner: Hal Levine, X4077.
Please play matches as scheduled. The pool 
lifeguard will be Gregg Garrison, X4570. 
Some teams are not showing up for 
scheduled matches. Please note scores on 
score sheet in the pool.
Bowling
Commissioner: Vince Carozza, X5494.
We will bowl at Strand Lanes on Saturday 
mornings. All teams must pay half of total 
bowling fee when you bowl your final 
match. League play begins October 25.
Darts
Commissioner: Paul Pecora, 621-9124. 
Entry date has passed, it's too late to enter. 
Leage play begins next week!
Racquetball
Commissioner: Rob Schlackman, X5518. 
Matches will begin Monday, October 20. 
Schedules are out and can be picked up in the 
IM Office. Standings next week.
leaguesDee
Six Person Vollevbali
Commissioner: For all 
Nyzio.
Matches will be played at 8:45 p.m. and 
9:45 p.m. starting Monday, October 20. 
Schedules can be picked up in the IM office.
Sports Coming Soon:
Three Person Volleyball
Minor Commissioner: Stuart Fox, 4259. 
We need commissioners.
Backgammon
Entries due Thursday, November 6 at 4:30 
p.m. We need commissioners.
New Business
Pat Campbell is working on new good nets 
for Floor Hockey now!
Qid. Business
Commissioners, please turn in rosters as 
soon as the sport is completed.
Intermediate 
A Division
1. Delta UpsilonA*
2. SAEB*
3. Crabs*
4. Phi Kap
5. Meat Mansion
6. CIA Agents
7. Titans
8. SUPA Tigers
B Division
1. The Squad*
2. Theta Xi*
3. Air Scobell
4. GSIA First Years
5.1.C. Slammers
6. Boys of Summer
7. C-Mappers
Won Loss
Next IM Board Meeting
ChessSoccerThursday, November 6 at 12:30
Commissioner: Stuart Fox, X4259.Commissioners:the Conference Room.
Matches started October 7 and next roundMajorsFred Deleon, X5432;
should be played by October 29. Please playIntermediatesStephanie Danczak,1986 Touch Football
all matches as scheduled and turn in scores toX4815;
Commissioner Stuart Fox.MinorsMike Grzywinski X4651.Majors
Teams WonLoss
League games will start November 3.1. Pika50
Table TennisSoccer Rules Clinic Thursday, October 30 at2. Crunch Bunch41
Commissioner: Bob Koca, X8989.4:30 p.m. in Thistle Hall. Every team must3. ATO32
Please turn in winning scores to thehave a representative at this important clinic.4. Beta13
commissioner.We still could use more Women Only5. Kappa Sig13
teams.6. SUPA05
p.m. in
*Clinched playoff berth. Playoffs Moday, 
Tuesday, and Thursday.
Tartan 
Sports 
Meeting
Today at 8 pm
In the Tartan 
Office
Need a ride home for Thanksgiving?
Take The A Phi O
To
[HMGVogfetyFg] mm MtateOpy
Only $35
Harrisburg stop East Mall 
Philadelphia Stop Bulliten Parking Lot 
(Next To 30th St. Station)
Buy Tickets at Skibo Information Desk
Another A Phi O Service
SORRENTO'S PIZZA
Atwood St. Across From Post Office
WE DELIVER FREE
621-9129
Thin Crust Pizza 
Thick Crust Pizza 
Calzones  Hoagies 
Pizza Bagels 
Dinners
Special: 
Large Pizza $4.50
Expresso and Cappucino Coffee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 28, 1986
Men's X-Country: 80 Straight Wins
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
Over the years, men's cross-country at 
Carnegie Mellon has been a sport of streaks. 
This season, the Tartans extended their 
NCAA Division III record for consecutive 
dual meet victories to 80. The eightieth 
came on Saturday when the Tartans crushed 
Thiel College 15-50 at Flagstaff Hill. 
Another streak goes on the line this Friday 
at Grove City when the Tartans attempt to 
win their seventh consecutive PAC 
Championship.
The Tartans were led on Saturday hy Keith 
Stopen, Pat Noll, and Tim Berger who 
crossed the finish line together, forging a 
three way tie for first at 26:40. For Noll, it 
was the first time running for Carnegie 
Mellon in three weeks, and in the first part 
of the race, it showed. "It felt very awkward, 
I was half-dead at the three mile mark, then I 
took a couple of gulps and felt great. It gave 
me a lot of confidence, maybe now I can 
think of it as a three week break, instead of a 
three week sickness." They were followed 
by nine more Tartans before the first Thiel 
runner came across.
Three who did not run on Saturday were 
Paul Camine, Len O'Neal, and Dave Supp. 
They sat out the race after strong showings 
the past two weeks at Fairmont and St. 
Vincents so they would be well rested for the 
PAC Championship. Supp and O'Neal are 
two of very few runners who have been 
healthy all season, and all three have been 
running hard over the pasr couple of weeks. 
As Stopen put it, "Dave's been a constant in 
an ever changing world."
Af ter the race, Head Coach Gary Meckley 
put it in persepective. "Well, it was kind of 
embarassing. You don't try to rub salt in 
the wounds because things go in cycles and
it won't last forever. But, I don't think we 
ran a really strong race, because they were 
sick, (Tom) Ford and Noll in particular, and 
Stopen. Some of the guys that I thought 
would do well, didn't do well, and I don't 
know if I'm going to take the best team I 
can possibly take to the Conference. Its not 
exactly the team that I expected to take to 
Conference when the season began, lets just
put it that way. But, you take your best 
team at a given time."
The team thinks it is ready for the PACs 
and Regionals. Several runners already talk 
of the PAC Championship as simply a 
warmup to the NCAA Eastern Regional on 
November 15th at Allentown College. To 
Supp, the Championship is a chance for the 
team to finally run together. "We've got to
use it to work together. We have to run as a 
team before Nationals." Camine was more 
succint, "We're using it as a warmup f0r 
Nationals." Others echoed the thoughts of 
Noll, "I'm looking at Regionals. A couple 
of months ago, I would've looked forward to 
the Conference, but now I just want to go to 
the Nationals."
Women Top Runners Thiel
By STEWART LEVINE
Tartan Staffwriter
The cross-country season is very much like 
professional hockey's, after playing in the 
regular season, a team starts over again as it 
tries to win the title. That situation now 
faces the womens cross-country team. The 
regular season for them ended last Saturday 
with an overwhelming victory over Thiel 
College. The real season begins Friday at 
the PAC Championships at Grove City.
After a season of second places behind Sue 
Johnson, Theresa Pane led the women with a 
time of 17:12. She was followed by Sue 
Johnson who came in at 17:27 and Francesca 
Crannell at 18:03. All three runners as well 
as founrth place Maria Lacroce and eighth 
place Tiffany Pickering finished with 
seasons bests.
Pane was modest after the race. "It felt 
good and I hope I do well on Friday," was 
her only comment. Johnson; however, 
thought there was more to it than just 
feeling good. "Theresa's training finally 
payed off. We all call her the workhorse ot 
the team. Her time was just awesome."
The ladies and their Head Coach Mindy 
Maxwell now are setting their sights towards 
the PAC Championship and beyond. "We're
ikiltie cofeOCTOBER 30, 1986 
4:30pm - 7:00pm
 Complimentary Witches Brew
 Halloween Candy
Dining Service
ready for the PACs, there's no doubt aboutMen's Results
it. Theresa had a phenomenal time, Sue's
been running well, Francesca's been running1Keith Stopen26:40CMU
well. Doris (Kwong), altghough she's outPat Noll26:40CMU
right now with an injury, has been doingTim Berger26:40CMU
well. Maria came out of nowhere today with4Tom Ford27:10CMU
a great race, so we're ready for the PACs.5Thomas Felmley27:24CMU
It's in the bag, I hope. And regionals, we6Kevin Helm27:36CMU
should have a strong showing at regionals.7Scott Foerst27:48CMU
I'd like to see some of our top runners,8Gary Harrison28:13CMU
namely Sue and Theresa, defintely place up9Gary Meeker28:34CMU
there in the top 20."10Paul Mayer28:49CMU
Presidents' Athletic
CMU 15. Thiel 50
ConferenceWomen's Results
Track1Theresa Pane17:12CMU
Championships
2
3
Sue Johnson 
F.Crannell
17:27
18:03
CMU
CMU
4Maria LaCroce20:16CMU
Friday, October 315Janet Lexow20:26Thiel
6Sally Keck20:52Thiel
7M. Stempkowski 21:01CMU
At Grove City College8Tiffany Pickering 21:35CMU
9Rocio Goff21:51CMU
1:30 pm10Diane Ceonzo22:59CMU
CMU by forfeit (Thiel did not have 5 
runners)

---------------------------------------------------

October 28, 1986The TartanPage 19
Hockey Team Ties in Season Opener
By NEIL J. GREENBLUM
Tartan Contributing Editor
Mike McGuire scored a power play goal 
with five seconds left in the game to give 
the Ice Tartans a 2-2 tie with Indiana 
University of Pennsylvania (IUP) Saturday, 
in the season opener at Lakevue Ice Palace in 
Valencia.
Carnegie Mellon dominated the 2nd period, 
and most of the 3rd, but were unable to 
dominate the scoreboard, outshooting IUP (0- 
0-1) by nearly 4 to 1. Strong goaltending 
by IUP netminder Fr ,nk Cone, a sophomore 
from Bethel Park, prevented the Tartans from 
winning. "We couldnt beat him," said Greg 
Timmons, junior co-captain. "He played 
spectacularly."
Ed Grimes scored both IUP goals, both 
coming early in the 1st period. He beat 
freshman goalie John Kerber on a IUP power 
play just 1:40 into the game, and scored 5 
1/2 minutes later, coming in unmolested on 
Kerber. Carnegie Mellon defenseman Brian 
Nogrady, a sophomore from Pittsburgh, was 
penalized for hooking at 1:20 to set up the 
first IUP score.
McGuire, playing in his first game as a 
Tartan, put Carnegie Mellon (0-0-1) on the 
board at 7:23 of the 2nd period. Timmons 
picked up his first assist of the season on the 
McGuire tally. "I had the puck in the comer 
and I hit McGuire breaking into the slot, and 
he just put it past Cone," recalled Timmons 
about the goal.
The Tartans trailed 2-1 almost the rest of 
the game. In a game marred by IUP 
penalties, Carnegie Mellon defenseman Jim 
Larson took a roughing penalty at 16:40 of 
the 3rd period. The Tartans played tough, 
keeping the puck in IUP's zone throughout 
the short-handed situation. Right after the 
IUP power play expired, IUP was penalized
for too many men on the ice. The Tartans 
pulled Kerber, who resides in Newington, 
Conn, in favor of a sixth skater, and had a 
two man advantage for the final minute of 
play.
The Tartans first line rose to the challenge. 
Cone made several fine saves in the closing 
moments, but was screened on McGuire's 
game-tying 30 footer, with just 5 seconds 
remaining. Nogrady fed Timmons at the 
Tartan end line, and the junior center hit 
McGuire at the IUP blue line for his second 
assist. Timmons was third on the team last 
year with his 8 assists.
"We played well," said the fresman 
McGuire. "We shouldve beat them. We 
played them wrong at the beginning of the 
game. We tried to flood the middle, instead 
of going wide. When we went wide, we 
scored."
New Tartan head coach Bob Koch, a 1986 
Carnegie Mellon graduate and the Tartans 
fourth leading scorer last season, was pleased 
with his team's performance. "We outplayed 
them. Our power play was a little lacking, 
but our goalie was able to keep us in the 
game. Even though we need to work on 
our shooting, many players gave a good 
effort."
The Tartans played a steady game 
defensively, led by junior co-captain Sean 
McGinn. "Sean anchored our defense, and 
perhaps played his best game as a Tartan," 
Timmons said.
Juniors Rich Nave and John Blackwood, 
who hit the post 3 times in the game, played 
well for Carnegie Mellon. Sophomore Brian 
Nogrady and Larson, a grad student, playing 
in their first game as Tartan defenders, also 
played admirably. John Barrett, a senior 
defender who had 2 goals and 2 assists for 
the Ice Tartans last year, will miss the 1986- 
1987 campaign due to an off-season injury
he incurred.
Carnegie Mellon also got strong per
formances from incoming icemen Chris 
Galvin and Todd Henderson. Galvin is a 
freshman from the Boston area, and the 
fresman Henderson comes from Liverpool, 
N.Y.
Kerber replaces the departed Ron Bonasso 
in goal for Carnegie Mellon. He was 
satisfied with his play. "The first two goals 
were bad goals, but I recovered and kept us 
in the game. The play is much faster than 
in high school."
His IUP counterpart, Frank Cone, made 
the difference, according to captian 
Timmons. "IUP is an improved team, but if 
[Cone] hadn't played as well as he did, we 
would've beat them by 7 or 8 goals," said 
Timmons.
"Its a shame we tied, but under the 
circumstances, we'll take it."
Tartan Tattlers - Timmons suffered a 
bruised thigh in the 2nd period, but only 
missed two shifts...Senior Steve Desrochers, 
and grad students Pat Merchak and Mark 
Licata were scratched Saturday due to 
scholastic commitments...The Tartans travel 
to Ohio State next weekend to play two 
games against the Buckeye club hockey 
team...WRCT will be covering Tartan 
hockey again this season, with senior Neil 
Jordan, sophomore Perry Pierce, and 
freshman Neal Levene calling the action. 
The first radio broadcast of the season will 
be two weeks from Saturday when Carnegie 
Mellon plays Penn State West at 
Lakevue...West Virginia University has left 
the Western Pennsylvania Collegiate Hockey 
Association (WPCHA), leaving only 8 
teams, including IUP and Carnegie 
Mellon...The Tartans will play 11 of their 
19 games on their home ice in Lakevue.
.
Penguins On a Roll
By JOHN FRIEDMANN 
Tartan Sports Editor 
The Pittsburgh Penguins have gotten off to 
a better start than anyone in the organization 
could have imagined."
Only a loss to the Philadelphia Flyers in 
the Flyers own Spectrum blocked the Pens 
from the league record for consecutive 
victories to start the season. But Pittsburgh 
turned around and trounced the Flyers 4-2 on 
home ground Saturday night, evening the 
series between the two teams.
Pittsburgh, proud posessors of an 8-1 
record, is at a loss to explain the sudden 
improvement. Notes center John Chabot, 
"We are just working harder and executing
better. We aren't doing anything different."
One factor different in the Penguins this 
year is their new-found ability to come back 
from a deficit. The team has come from 
behind from in six of their eight victories 
this year, including Saturday's game versus 
the Flyers.
Keynoting the attack had been Center 
Mario Lemieux, who was named the NHLs 
player of the week for the seasons opening 
frame. Lemieux had had at least one point 
in all of the Penguins' contests so far this 
year, and leads the league in goals scored.
Despite the fast start, Lemieux tries to 
keep it all in perspective. "I am just trying 
to help the team v "....the points will 
follow."
TheTheIUST-A-CUTDESIGNER PERMPRECISION CUT
o* $25.00$13.00oo., $8.00
Complete with written guarantee.
Comoletp with shampoo 
and blow style.
Cut only
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 
Great Styles Start at 
OOOOn eNOwYorOkPlaPzOOOOOOOe
SAVE $2.00
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shamprtn & styling
Offer Expires: 
Nov. 30.1986
NOAPfONTH*NT
hCCESSARY_ CjttTEXfccTftntns.PRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Atwood Street Across the street from Oakland Post Office
ariflTTTtiu ! 687-3500
PRECISION HIRCUTTERS j
We were looking for new shades when I realized it was time to do something about my hair. You know, my hair was driving me crazy. So, we cruised right into Oreat Expectations. Now with my new cut, my hair is driving Bobby crazy.
Customers: Sue and Bob, lnsepirable ever since.
cxfccnmtnsPRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
FAST FREE DELIVERY ^_____
Cu FOR FRfE DELIVERY 11 NOON TO 12 MIONIGH
S//zzer/a
our dough mode FRESH doily ^1
810 IVY STRtET  SHADYSIDI
682-3333 ,
FREE DELIVERY TO: -offr'----------- Shodyside  Pt Breeze  ^
 Sq. Hill  Oakland 
 Friendship Park  Bloomfield 
 Highland Park,
g_FWEE DELIVERY
 , COUPON
I Large Cheese Pizza
S $ 3.99
! Free liter of coke
(All sandwiches come with rr.elted provolone cheese and are OVEN-BAKED)
Italian Hoagie............................4.00
Vj Hoagie............................... 2.00
Hot Sausage.............. ..............3.90
Meat Ball .....................................3.90Cheese Hoagie...........................3.20Steak Hoagie.:...........................4.20
Pizza Steak Hoagie...................4.20
Cold Sub................................. 4.00Capicolla (Deluxe)........................4.70
(Real Italian Capicolla with Green 
Peppers, Mushrooms A that Special Touch)
(All topped with fresh lettuce, tomato, onion  unless specified) 
(Green Peppers or Mushrooms  2S* Extra)
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan Sports
Plavoff Hopes Shattered
Upset! GCU 25, CMU 22
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Sports Editor
The football game versus Grove City 
College was to be several things. A final 
test before facing W&J for the conference 
championship. Another week of experience 
for freshman QB Dean Garofola. One more 
step toward the NCAA playoffs.
Instead, all the Tartans got was a rude 
awakening as the GCU Wolverines dealt 
Carnegie Mellon their first regular-season 
home loss since 1982, 25-22. It was the last 
time Carnegie Mellon's seniors would play 
before a home crowd, and it was the first 
regular-season home loss they had ever 
experienced.
The Tartans had hoped that a victory over 
Grove City, combined with knockoffs of 
PAC leader W&J and slumping Bethany 
College, would land the team a berth in the 
NCAA playoffs and a conference tide in the 
process. CMU can still tie for the PAC 
honors with victories in their next two 
games, but has no realistic chance at post
season play.
Perhaps most painful is the Tartans came 
within four yards of winning the contest.
Behind by three points with two minutes 
to go in the game, CMU had the ball on the 
Wolverine 4 yard line, a drive that had started 
on the Tartan 34.
But Tartan quarterback Chris Claflin, who 
replaced Dean Garofola when he was shaken 
up, fumbled on a handoff, handing the ball 
back to Grove City.
Carnegie Mellon got one more desperate 
chance. The Tartan defense held the 
Wolverine inside then ten yard line, and 
GCU quarterback Jeff Cass took a safety on 
fourth down to allow his team to kickoff 
instead of punt.
Alan Lovelace received the kick and ran it
back 26 yards to the Grove City 46 yard 
line. Claflin passed the Tartans to within 
fifteen yards of the end zone, but fell short as 
time ran out.
Despite his failure to bring Carnegie 
Mellon in for the crucial final score, 
quarterback Claflin provided a crucial jumpstart to the Tartan offense. Although playing 
less than half the game, Claflin racked up 
227 yards passing and completed 13 of 17 
passes. This is a personal high for Claflin in 
both completions and yards.
Claflins impressive statistics, and the fact 
that he led Carnegie Mellon to 15 of their 22 
points, gives rise to the question of who 
will call signals next week versus 
Washington and Jefferson. Although 
Garofola recovered within minutes of his 
being shaken up, CMU offensive 
coordinatoar Erdelvi elected to stay with 
Claflin. Even though a decision has certainly 
not yet been made, a battle for the spot may 
ensue, a battle that may carry over into next 
season.
Carnegie Mellon struck first, using a 
completely ground attack save for the eleven 
yard Garofola pass to tight end Tim Kelly 
for the touchdown. Two of the three passes 
the junior receiver caught versus GCU were 
touchdowns.
Grove City fought back to within one 
point with a pair of Doug Hart field goals, 
one of which was a 51-yarder. Interestingly, 
Hart kicked a 55-yarder earlier in the season.
Grove City quarterback Jeff Cass put the 
Wolverines on top 13-7 late in the second 
quarter. His pass to Jeff Mateer, a split end, 
covered 33 yards, almost a quarter of Cass's 
supnsingly low 141 yard total.
After Claflin replaced Garofola, he showed 
no hesitancy going to the air. After a 5 yard 
drop to Roy Teresky, he found offensive 
utilityman Bill Heiser with a 56-yard pass to
Tight end Mike Behling, a senior, collected 56 yards in his home farewell.
tie the score. the Tartans briefly in the lead 20-19. But a
After GCU took command once again, 19- Brian Herrick TD run gave the Wolverines
13, Carnegie Mellon struck for a final the lead for good, and precipitated the
touchdown in the fourth quarter, which put desparate CMU drives.
Soccer Splits as Season's End Nears
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
The soccer Tartans split in this week's 
action, going 1-1 to move thier recrod to 8-5- 
1 as they enter the season's final week of 
play. The Tartans opened up this weeks 
action losing a tough 3-1 decision to 
Frostburg State College, and turned around 
to beat the Washington and Jefferson 
College Presidents 2-1.
The Tartans found themselves playing 
catch up early against Frostburg. The 
booters were down 1-0 only 10 minutes into 
the contest, and just could not climb back 
into the game. The Tartans were down 2-0 
before they could finally score, on a goal by 
Junior midfielder Kevin Jung. Frostburg 
was able to counter the Tartan attacks well, 
and beat the Tartans to the ball all over the 
field.
"This game was a good introduction to 
college soccer," explained Tartan head coach 
Nick Gaudioso. "The first goal just took the 
wind out of our sails early, he continued.
Against Washington and Jefferson, the 
Tartans were able to get a big Presidents 
Athletic Conference win. The Tartans only 
won 2-1, but they had two goals called back 
on bad calls by the referees. "Both of the 
refused goals should not have been called 
back. Both times the referees called hand 
ball on us, but it was actually the reverse. 
W &.J  commiued the fouls to stop the
goals, and I guess their strategy worked," 
explained Gaudioso,
The Tartans got their first goal of the 
contest on a nice play by freshman Eddie 
Park, on an assist by Scott Lyon. The goal 
just trickled by the W & J goalie, as Park 
was tackled just after he made his shot 
"They tried to take Eddie down all over, but 
he just got away from them, it was a very 
pretty play," said Gaudioso.
The game was very frustrating for the 
Tartans, as they could not capitalize on 
many scoring opportunities. After heavy 
penetration in the Presidents' end, Senior 
Doug Anderson scored unassisted to give the 
Tartans the insurance goal they needed. "We 
dominated them the whole game, all over the 
field. From our 20 yard line to their 20, we 
had complete control. The score just doesn't 
reflect it," noted Gaudioso.
The Tartans have two big games to end 
their 1986 season. They will be squaring off 
against The University of Pittsburgh, and 
Robert Morris College. Both teams are 
NCAA Division I, and they will make 
formidable opponents for the Tartans. The 
Tartans have been eliminated from any post
season play, so Gaudioso has told his team 
that this is end of the rebuilding. "Five 
freshman starters is a lot for any team, and 
we have handled it very well. But this week 
is the start of next year, and we can't just sit 
back and take these games easy," said 
Gaudioso.
The Scoreboard
FootballMen's Cross Country
Grove City 25 
Carnegie Mellon 22
Carnegie Mellon 15 
Thiel 50
SoccerWomen's Cross Country
Frostburg State 3 
Carnegie Mellon 1
Carnegie Mellon 2 
W & J 1
Carnegie Mellon 
Thiel
Carnegie Mellon wins 
by forfeit.Thiel did 
not have 5 runners.
Hockey
Carnegie Mellon 2 
IUP 2
