Bookstore Replies
Faculty Causes Text Delay
by Bill Minkler
The bookstore was vigorous last week in a verbal reply to 
charges that it is not providing for the needs of the students, par
ticularly in a letter-to-the-editor which appeared in the Carnegie Plaid 
on November 18. ?-----------------------------------------------
The letter said that its writer 
had been unable to purchase the 
books he needed for either of his 
two classes. Why, it asked, can
not the bookstore anticipate the 
need for and procure the neces
sary textbooks in advance of reg
istration?
The Plaid editor agreed with 
the letter writer, both verbally and in print, saying that the 
least the school can do is see that the textbooks are here prior to the beginning of each semester. 
Publishers Swamped Bookstore officials were visibly moved by the charges, which they claimed were false. We welcome
criticism, said store manager,
C. S. Floyd. The bookstore is 
fallible just like every other or
ganization, and when we fall 
down, we want to know so we can 
correct it. Its a shame the writer of the letter didnt stop in the store to find out why the books werent here, before he wrote to the editor.
According to Mr. Floyd and J.D. Sands, Techs asistant purchasing agent, 75 percent of the texts 
needed for a given fall semester 
are on the bookstore shelves by August 1. Well over 95 percent 
are in stock when registration begins. There are several reasons why the remaining few percent
of the books are not available 
then.The bookstore cant order any books until it gets a requisition from the faculty. To have the texts on hand for registration, the orders must be placed early, because every school in the country buys books in September, and publishers are swamped.
Some Very LateHowever, Mr. Sands stated, the educational department con
scientiously tries to give the students the latest material, and many of the professors find sum mer to be the only time when they can look over the new books. 
Therefore some requisitions come in late. It takes about three weeks for a book on order to arrive from the publisher.An important reason for the delayed arrival of night school texts is that it is impossible to estimate 
[Continued on page 2]
Photo by Don HandHERMETICALLY SEALED
During the years first snow storm, several students decided to 
force class-bound Techites to detour across the snow-covered Cut by 
blocking the entrance to the Cut sidewalk.
Electra 99 To Be Given By Drama Depa rtmen t
Play Is Portrait Of Young Woman 
And Reflects Greek Revenge Cycle
by Bob Livingston
Saturday night. December 13, the Carnegie Little theatre will 
present its third production of the year, the Greek drama, Electra. 
The Sophoclean masterpiece is a portrait of a young woman whose 
yearning and search for vengeance of her fathers death continues 
the revenge cycle of Greek trag-#------------------------------------------------
VOL. 46No. 11 CARNEGIE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY TUES., DEC. 9, 1952
70 Donors Give Blood; 
Next Drive Is April 18
The Red Cross bloodmobile, which came to the Carnegie cam
pus on December 1, 1952, handled only 70 donors. The capacity for 
the bloodmobile is theoretically 150 people per day, and the drive 
on this campus can hardly be counted as being successful. The
lack of success has been attributed#-----------------------------------------------to inadequate publicity and organization preceding the drive. In addition, many students signed up, but did not keep their appoint
ments.
The Newman club will co-sponsor the next appearance of the 
bloodmobile with Student Council. This drive will be on April 18, 1953.
Donors Named
Donors last Monday include 
Neal Karpenter, George Howard, Robert Lindsay, Rita OHara, 
Joanne OKeefe, R. Learner, William Peth, Mrs. Mary Garrett, Edwin Hunter, Joe Murtha, Tom Nathan, Hugh Young, John McCarthy, Jack King, Tom Cahill, 
William Kennedy,, Arthur Hursy, and John Barclay.
Other contributors were Bob Samuelson, Raymond Parshall, Wray Stevenson, John Tallmadge, 
Duane Simpson, Leonard Madison, Edward Wiener, Marcia Frankel, 
[Continued on page 8J
Panel To Begin 
Year's Program 
At Shady side
The Panel of Americans group will begin its activities for the year tomorrow, December 10, when a team of speakers will speak to an audience at Shadyside 
school. The panel, which was 
started at Carnegie two years ago, has as its purpose o send students 
of varying religious and racial 
backgrounds to speak before civic 
groups, clubs, and schools.
 The speakers on the first panel program will be Dick Christensen, 
Gwen Sheffey, Herb Buchwald, Lois Simons, and Dick Foster. Dr. 
Sochatoff will moderate the program.
The puipose of the panel is to foster better understanding and 
to eliminate prejudice and intolerance.
Campaign 
Regulations
The following campaign 
regulations must be observed 
by all candidates for Student 
Council.
1. Campa igning officially 
starts Monday, December 1, 
and will continue to the day 
of the election, December 17. 
No campaigning whatsoever 
is permitted within 100 feet of 
the polls after they open on 
the day of the election.
2. Campaign posters not over 
14 by 11 inches may be placed 
on the school bulletin boards 
after they have been approved 
at the office of student person
nel and welfare.
3. Signs or banners to be put 
up in Skibo must first be ap
proved by Miss Buhrson in the 
Skibo office.
Certified candidates for of
fice are as follows:
Engineering and Science (4 
to be elected); Frederick Dill, 
Clark Garrecht, Simon Kellman, Louis Kirkbride, James 
Murphy, W. Lowell Steinbrenner.
Engineering and Science 
half term only (1 to be elect
ed; Robert Byrne, Dayton 
Cook.
Fine Arts (1 to be elected); 
Sorlee Gefsky, Robert Pile, 
Frank West.
Margaret Morrison (2 to be 
elected); Rosalind Dyn, Carol 
Moberg, Mary Ellen Ruth, 
Marjorie Ruttle.
Humanistic and Social Stud
ieshalf term only (1 to be 
elected); Gerald Houck (auto
matically elected).
Assistant Secretary (1 to be 
elected); Gaye Damich (auto
matically elected).
T utoring
Again this semester, the 
members of Tau Beta Pi, na
tional engineering honorary, 
will sponsor a free tutoring 
program for Tech students.
The courses in which tutor
ing will be offered are S-101, 
S-221, S-231, S-403, and S-404. 
In order to procure tutoring 
service, call Bob Helmbold at 
MU 1-1605 or MU 2-8768.
If there is sufficient demand 
for them, other courses will be 
tutored.
edy.
The play reflects the lives of the 
Greek people at that time (about 
2400 years ago), yet has many 
of the qualities of Shakespeares 
Hamlet, written some time af
terwards. This is Techs first at
tempt at this style on the main 
stage in quite a while, but director 
Allen Fletcher is pleased and con
fident with his first play in the 
Carnegie theatre.
Mood Music Music student Bob Bemat has composed special mood music for the show. The score has been recorded by percussion instruments onlythree kettle drums, two snare drums, a xylophone and a bass drum. The music is a great help to the actors in setting the
Cleaned-Up P&Ds Play Host 
To Design School Convention
by Rachel Katzin
Last Monday, December 1, a rather strange, yet special atmos
phere hovered in the air of the painting & design department. The 
P&Ds, sporting clean, shiny faces, almost j>aintless hands, and the 
least dirty of their jeans worked diligently, forgetting completely 
usual break and foolin a-# theround time. Rooms were conspicuously neat and clean. The walls of the freshman studios were bared of their famous caricatures, and not the vaguest sounds of 
singing floated from the doors.
What could bring about such a revolt except important visitors? 
And, in truth, important visitors were wandering about the halls, observing the strangely quiet 
P&Ds. The members of the National Association of Schools 
of Design had launched its entire 
group of representatives upon the artist-instructors and students of 
Carnegie Tech.
Annual Convention
The sixth annual convention 
officially opened at 9 a.m., Monday morning with registration in 
the College of Fine Arts. Twenty-four independent and ten uni
versity or college-associated art schools, ranging from Massachusetts to 'California to Alabama, were represented. From 2 to 3:30 
that afternoon, the fourth floor of 
the building was buzzing with the representatives on tour of the de
partment.The highlight of the convention 
included a discussion on DrawingPurpose and Methods, a 
delegates dinner at which Mr.
Gordon Washburn commented on the 1952 International exhibit, and 
a visit to the exhibit itself.
First Time Here Robert L. Lepper, associate pro
fessor of design at Tech, was program chairman for the convention, 
which was held here this year for 
the first time.
The convention met until Tues
day evening, at which time the representatives disbanded and left for their respective schools.
tempo and rhythm, and to the audience in setting the mood.
The part of Electra is portrayed by senior Peggy Maurer. Others in the cast are Paidagogus, Ellis Rabb; Clytemnestra, Josephine Chianese; Aegisthos, Robert Stonebridge; Orestes, Bill Bell; and Pylades, Dan Levin. The chorus, an essential part of Greek drama, is led by Soralie Levin, and consists of Helen Gaylord, Sue Haldeman, Joan Rowe, Sue Man Ilvaine, Joan Baldwin, Barbara Hall, Marusia Altshuller, Betty Brack, Carole Johnson, Alice Gordon, Ruth Kindi, Nancy Fowler, and Liz Shanklin. Also in the caft are Frances Di Matteo and Sandy Kolb.
DatesElectra will begin the week before vacation, running the usual number of performances, since it will re-open after the holidays. Pre-vacation dates are December 13 through 18, and after the break the play production will be resumed on January 7, 8, 9 (matinee), and close permanently on Saturday night, January 10. Tickets will be available on Wednesday, December 10, from 4 to 5, 
at the drama office.
Chapel
The traditional annual 
Christmas Chapel will be held 
in the Foyer of the Fine Arts 
building on Tuesday, Decem
ber 16, at 11:30 a.m. From 
11:15 on that day caroling 
bells will be amplified over 
the campus to remind the stu
dent body of the Chapel.
Dr. Warner. Professor KirkPatrick, and Professor Boett
cher will take part in the 
service. The Cameron choir 
and Fine Arts chorus will lead 
the service in the singing of 
the traditional carols.
Play Tickets
Tickets for the forthcoming 
play Electra will be avail
able on Wednesday, December 
10, from 4 to 5, at the drama 
office. Performance dates are 
December 13 through 18, Jan
uary 7, 8, 9, (matinee), and 10.
Pi Mu Epsilon 
Presents First 
Of 1952 Lectures
The first public lecture of the 1952-53 lecture series, sponsored by thte Pennsylvania Epsilon chapter of the national honorary mathematical fraternity Pi Mu 
Epsilon, will be held on Wednesday afternoon, December 10, 1952 at 4:00 p.m. in room 1112 Engineering hall.
The speaker will be Dr. R. L. 
Bright, assistant professor of electrical engineering. His subject will be Factorization of Polynomials 
by means of an Electrolytic Tank. 
Dr. Bright received a bachelor of 
science degree in mathematics at Carnegie Tech in 1946 and his 
doctorate in electrical engineering in 1949.

---------------------------------------------------

Pa ge 2CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 9, 1952
A secure future, exceptional opportunities for advancement, and a high starting salary await you at Thebokestr if you are one of the men we are looking for. We have openings right now for qualified engineers and designers in all phases of aircraft manufacturing; we need top-notch men to help us in our long-range military program: turning out the famous C*119 for the U.S. Air Forces.wThebokest provides paid vacations and liberal health and life insurance coverage. We work a 5-day, 40-hour week.If you feel you are one of the men we are looking for, write me. Your inquiry will be held in strictest confidence, 
of course.
 Walter
and veteran 
Aircraft Division.
Tydon, widely known aviation engineer and aircraft designer 
ran of 25 years in aviation, is Chief Engineer of Fairchild's
 ENCIME *ND AIRFLANE C0P01*TI0HFairchild
HAGERSTOWN. MARYLAND
Ike's Korea Trip Helps; 
But Problem Still Exists
by Professor T. T. Helde
Shortly after the election last month, an irate letter from a 
reader in one of the Pittsburgh newspapers to the effect that Gen
eral Eisenhower had promised, if victorious, to leave for Korea on 
November 6 to settle the problems of the Korean war. What, then, 
inquired the reader, was he doing on the golf links in Augusta, 
Georgia? That Eisenhower had promised to start his Korean trip 
on November 6 is of course ridiculous, and his golf games in Augusta 
were merely a few hours of well-earned recreation to prepare him 
for the grueling routine ahead. But the letter points out as vividly 
as can be desired the widespread hopeeven faiththat General 
Eisenhower can succeed where virtually everything else has failed.
But one must be either ill-informed or an incurable optimist 
to hope with any* confidence that Eisenhower, with all of his ability 
to achieve settlements and his insight into foreign affairs, can bring 
a swift and successful conclusion to the Korean hostilities. After 
months of truce negotiations at Panmunjon, virtually all the ele
ments of an armistice were agreed upon except the issue of prisoner 
exchange. The communists insisted that all North Korean and Chi
nese prisoners be returned by the United Nations, regardless of the 
prisoners personal desires. The United Nations refused to repatri
ate men against their will. There the issue stands neither side 
will give way; and the armistice negotiations are a thing of the past.
Indian Proposal
When the United Nations General Assembly met in New York 
last month, the Korean issue was the most crucial subject on its 
agenda. To many observers, it seemed that success or failure of the 
United Nations depended upon Korea. Various proposals for ending 
the prisoner of war deadlock have since been presented to the United 
Nations. An Indian proposal, which for a time caused considerable 
optimism, embodied a compromise whereby prisoners would not be 
forcibly repatriated. But the United States objected to some ele
ments of imprecision concerning the ultimate fate of the prisoners; 
an amendment was added providing for the ultimate settlement of 
the prisoner issue, after an armistice, by a neutral and presumably 
impartial committee. In this form, the General Assembly approved 
the Indian proposal by a 53-5 votethe negative votes being, of 
course, those of the communist bloc. Obviously, the communists 
are not disposed to accept the majority decision.
Moral Victory
The anti-communist forces have achieved at least a moral vic
tory; but the fighting is no nearer an end. It can generally be as
sumed that prolonging the war is to the advantage of the com
munists, who are not greatly worried about the expenditure of man
power and who desire to harass the United States, South Korea, 
and other nations. Only some unexpected change of heart on the 
part of the communistsa change of heart which will take place in 
Peiping or Moscow rathe* than Koreawill end hostilities at present 
on the basis of negotiation.
General Eisenhower will be able to gain valuable first-hand 
familiarity with the Korean situation on his trip, but as things stand 
now, it is doubtful if he will be able to return with a formula for 
ending the conflict through negotiation. Upon his shoulders will fall 
the responsibility of determining what other means can be used to 
break the Korean stalemate and yet avoid another world war. The 
decision will be one which would tax the wisdom of a Solomon.
Postscript: As this column was on the verge of being dispatched 
to the editors, the news came that Eisenhower is on his way back 
from Korea. His report of the trip presumably may clarify some of 
the questions raised in this column.
Reporter
Anyone interested in 
working as the Inquiring Re
porter for the Tartan is re
quested to call Fred Sonnenberg at MU 1-5380 any even
ing. It is not necessary to 
have ny previous experience.
Sns Offers Opportunity 
To Budding Dramatists
by Jerry Adler
Webster says that success is the attaining of ones desired end. 
G. Wood, late of Carnegie Tech and more recently of Pittsburgh 
Playhouse fame, seems well on Hie way toward what Mr. Webster 
promises as the end result. ?------------------------------------------------
G. Wood wrote the book, music, 
and lyrics for the 1948 S n S pro
duction of The Ladies at Work 
and since has worked on no less 
than nine off-Broadway produc
tions. He should be familiar to 
all for his authorship of Dance 
for Joy, the musical comedy 
which just closed at the Play
house.
New Faces
G. Woods story includes educa
tion at Vanderbilt university 
where he majored in mathematics, 
Yale and New York universities
They begin an engagement at the 
Bon Soir in New York on Decem
ber 15 and also have appeared at 
the Fireside inn and the Blue 
Angel.
Your Opportunity
Ensuing articles will tell of oth
er S n S graduates who have done 
much to put the Scotch n Soda 
club name on the map. The club 
cannot claim responsibility for 
their successes, but it can take 
pride in the fact that it was a 
stepping-stone toward what these 
people have attained.
Your opportunity to take part 
in the show this year will afford itself soon. Whether you prefer singing, dancing, acting, sewing, painting, hammering an occasional nail, or whatever it may be, there is a place for you in the 1953 Scotch n Soda production. Watch the Tartan and bulletin 
boards for calls.
Book Store[Continued from page 2] 
the size of evening classes. This 
is because many students take 
only a few courses and then drop 
out. We dont know exactly how 
many books well need until after 
registration, said Mr. Floyd. 
Therefore certain courses may 
be short a few copies. We cant 
oveij-order because the publisher 
will take back only 20 percent of 
the books.
Reasons for Delay
If we have a large number 
left over, he said, they sit around getting dirty, and we dont 
want to sell soiled merchandise 
to students.
Unsold books cost money too. 
Every June the store has thou
sands of dollars worth of texts 
left on the shelvesrepresenting 
money which could have been 
earning 4 percent for the college 
if invested in something besides 
books.
A third reason for delay HE 
that many night school instructor* 
are industrial personnel who teach 
part time. Sometimes a new in
structor must be procured on short 
notice. He must select a textbook 
for his course, and his order will 
naturally come in late.
Mr. Floyd said that he was one 
in night school himself, and that he knows just how the student* feel when they cant get books. 
But he believes the store is doing the best for its customers that it can under the circumstances.
G. Wood
Actress and Author
beside his two years at Tech, 
which he spent achieving his mas
ters degree. Really an amazing 
college career during which time 
at Vanderbilt he decided to switch 
to drama. He recently teamedup with Alice Ghostly of New 
Faces of 52 and has appeared lo
cally with her at the Monte Carlo.Fair chl dmp Fa!WHATu
by RMTICALYS
dmp nep'b'EdB clSpEOeN Q'N
The misst-witm 
portable ever built!
*Royal DGOWN.*o yG*al Wyo GkkHrHN* nGO*a,E 
DGOWN.*o hiooa $yN2iHG8EyHi Nl EyG08 
H8 Wyo reOOo8W nGO*a,t N*2N8Nrw
hoo HW CoOowol
PoO8E NE *G0 NE 75wcJ noob*1
UaD/ MW//
TYPEWRITER CO.
644 Liberty AvenueAT 1-8320 SUPPLIES  
REPAIRS  RENTALS
ofN 'E rtdl' GScd QSdm dmp mhEpN Nhf b'vp
Akron, Ohio.............$ 2.80
Allentown, Pa............ 7.25
Atlantic City, N. J... 8.55
Albany, N. Y..................11.20
Altoona, Pa.....................2.35
Baltimore, Md.................5.90
Buffalo, N. Y.............. 5.55
Cambridge, Ohio ... 3.30
Cleveland, Ohio .... 2.95
Columbus, Ohio............4.25
Cincinnati, Ohio 6.95
Dayton, Ohio........... 5.75
Detroit, Mich...................6.50
Easton, Pa........................7.25
Grand Rapids, Mich. 9.35
Harrisburg, Pa.......... 5.25
Hartford, Conn.........$11.70
Indianapolis, Ind. ... 7.85
Johnstown, Pa.............1.60
Kansas City, Mo. ... 17.65
Lancaster, Pa............ 5.85
Louisville, Ky. .>.... 9.70
Mansfield, Ohio .... 3.80
New York City...........9.50
Philadelphia, Pa.
$cranton, Pa................6.95
Toledo, Ohio .............5.25
Washington D. C. ... 6.30 
Wilkes Barre, Pa. ... 6.55
York, Pa...................... 5.25
Youngstown, Ohio ... 1.60 
Zanesville, Ohio .... 3.90
Plus U. S. Tax
Big EXTRA Savings On Round Trip Tickets
GREYHOUND TERMINAL
Liberty Avenue at Grant Street GRant 1-5700
RMTICALYS

---------------------------------------------------

W/ 'EO byy> 'd dm'd chhdQhlk! 
^1%. mp'b A DrGU!AD. oA!!r/ 3*k 
y>3*kl O'Ecpl! d---------i\LOOK 
A/ /FA/ 
UaDi! <
mp'ee ee
NA/WaNA!
champ!
WHAT A 
punch! 
he'll be 
THE BEST 
' ON THE 
SQUAD/
FaW CAN /FrN /r!! 
eo uaaN ? WaNHrDFaW Fr'U. LOOK < 
W aN CANVAu) l
I. j. Reynoi
Tobacco Co
.dhE-u'epmB
ROTC Erects Barrier 
To Rehersal Racket
The battle of the noises between the ROTC students and the 
dramats will soon be at an end. Sound-proofing of the thin wall 
between the army supply room and the studio theater is due for 
completion this week. ?------------------------------------------
Formerly the sounds made by 
a class on one side of the wall 
would pass through and disturb 
the class on the other side. This 
situation will not be entirely abat
ed, because no wall can be made 
completely" sound-proof. But the 
operations department, which is 
doing the work, feels that there will be less passage of sound than before.
Colonel Morris, professor of military science and tactics, declared himself in favor of the project. He said, Professor Boettcher (head of the drama department) and I have seen eye to eye about that for a long time.
Sergeant Hideck said, It will give the ROTC people a chance to have a decent class in here with6:30Twenty Questions 7:00Lets Cool Off 
7:30Music 
8:30Enosupo 
9:30Musical Poetry 
11:00Sports and Music 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
out all that noice. Similar opinions were expressed by members of the drama department.
The sound-proofing was done by building a new wall of cinder 
block and celotex right against the old wall, thus providing a double barrier to sound.
When the original wall was built, there was no need for soundproofing, because the army kept its equipment in supply and held all its classes in AH. But because of the inefficiency involved in carrying rifles and other equipment between buildings all the time, certain classes were held in supply, thus precipitating the noise war between the dramats and ROTC.
EXPERIENCED TYPIST
Desires Work at Home 
JA 1-5913 
MO 1-2662
The young executive
MAKES HIS MARK IN RETAILING 
THROUGH SPECIALIZED TRAINING
aEp-Np'l Chflbp
leads to 
Masters 
Degree
Specialized training speeds college grads 
to top retail jobs. Interesting positions open 
in buying, advertising, fashion, personnel, 
management and teaching. Realistic class
room approach. Supervised store experience 
with pay. Coeducational. Graduates placed. 
Scholarships available.
Send for Bulletin C
SCHOOL OF RETAILING
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
Senior Thistle Pictures
The 128 seniors (MMCC6; FA42; E&S80) who have 
not had their senior picture taken for the Thistle may still make 
an appointment with Gimbels between December 29, 1952, and 
January 9, 1953. Each person must have an appointment in order 
to be photographed, and, contrary to previous years, no picture 
will be used in the Thistle unless it was taken at Gimbels.
The Thistle editors desire that every seniors picture appear 
in this years annual. Appointments may be made by calling 
Nancy Whitmyre, seniors editor, at EM 1-1179 on Thursday, 
December 11, between 6:30 and 9:30 p.m. or on Monday, De
cember 15. a the same hours.
Those seniors who have already had their pictures taken 
are requested to return the proofs to Gimbels before December 
16.
A GIFT
FOR THE PARTICULAR PERSON
Beautiful, hand-made leather pieces, goldtooled  in red, green, brown and wine. 
Library setwith scissors and letter
opener...................................................$6.75
Cigarette lighterEvans large economy
fuel capacity.......................................$6.75
Round ashtrayhandsomely crafted, re
movable glass insert with center rest $2.70 
Deluxe Key Kapsimported Morocco
and Pigskin in 4 colors..................$1.35
See Modern Styling at Its Best atC. I. T. Bookstore
.. uut a bo*er  .
.... cigarette wttt
.n,t tell .n, tnelya'5 t.t ttst nt
 YOU CAN smoke until you g!  your
  C AmetU -ost days and see
time. Try  ue 0nly Cam . ue Camels are
steady orfu. hoW rThow mild* o k a{tet week.
pack after pack, we
3333333333333333333333333333
WDW/
Schedule
Tuesday, December 9
6:00On the Air 
6:15Lucky Strike News 
6:15Linger Awhile 
7:15Abide with Me 
 7:30Proudly We Hail
8:00The Brown Study Hour 
9:00James Lacy 
10:00Night Train 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
Wednesday, December 10
6:00On the Air 
6:05Lucky Strike News 6:15Record Rendezvous 
8:30Folk Music Time 
9:00Phi Mu Alpha 
10:00Musical Music 
11:00Sports and Music 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
Thursday, December 11
6:00On the Air
6:05Lucky Strike News
6:15Music6:30Marys Music Hall 
7:00Carnegie Music Hall 
7:30Music
8:00The Dixie Belles 
8:30Bachelor Girl 
9:00Music with Eld 
9:30Musical Party 
10:00James Lacey 
11:00Sports and Music 
11:15Lucky Strike News 
11:30Off the Air
Friday, December 12
6:00On the Air 
6:05Lucky Strike News 
6:15Chin and Spin 
7:00Music8:00Music Extraordinary 
8:30Science Fiction Adventures 
9:15Gillette Time 
10:00Music11:15Sports and Music, Lucky Strike 
News 
11:30Off the Air
Saturday, December 13
. 1:00On the Air 
* 1:05United Press News
1:15Music
6:00United Press News 
6:30The Bob and Gary Show 
8:00Guest Star 
10:00The 3 and Vz Crazy Engineers 
11:00Sports and Music, Lucky Strike 
News 
1 :30Off the Air
Sunday, December 14
:00On the Air 
i :05United Press News 
.1:15The Amie Brockman Show 
3:00-Escape With Me 
5:00Lucky Strike News 
5:30As I See It 
5:45-Serenade in Blue 
6:00The WRCT Symphony Hour 
31:00Sports and Music 9 :1:30Off the Air
Monday, December 15
6:00On the Air
6:05Lucky Strike News
6:15Musical Interlude
Tuesday, December 9, 1952CARNEGIE TARTAN Page I

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 9, 1952
You Tell Us
For our own information and for the purpose 
of giving the student body more of what it wants 
to read in future issues of the Tartan, we wish to 
ask the cooperation of our readers in filling out the 
following questionaire.
So please check those features you read, and 
give them a rating according to your personal 
preference if you want to. Then turn the ques
tionaire in to the Tartan via iritraschool mail, del 
posit it at the Tartan offices on the third floor of  
the Carnegie Union, or give it to any staff member.
Just one request: Please dont stuff the ballot 
box.
TARTAN RATING SHEET
Who Are You?
Student or Faculty? ............................................
Department..........................................................
Year of graduation .............................................
Dorm Man, Fraternity Man, or commuter? ....
Which of the following do you read, and how 
do you rate them?
Dont Dont IndifFeature Read Read Like Like ferent
Front Page News .... .... ..............
Student Council
? News .... ....................................
Others News
Stories ................................................
Just the
Headlines ................. .... ...............
Feature Stories ................................................
Kitchen Sink .... ...............
Oblongata Papers ............................................
Letters to Editor..............................................
Inquiring Reporter................................................
Editorials .......................... 
Intramural Sports ....
Varsity Sports ...............................................
Sportscope ...........................
Pictures and
Cartoons .... .............................................
Night School ................................................
Bulletin Board .... ...............
WRCT Schedule ................................................
Advertisements ................................................
World News
Analysis ................................................
Additional comments and remarks........................
OFFICES: Carnegie Union 5075 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh IS, 
Pa. TELEPHONE: SChenley 1-4557, after hours MUseum
1-5380: for advertising and subscriptions: MUseum 2-3990. 
Published weekly, during the school year except holidays 
and examination periods by the students of Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.
TaHWGOBH8B$yHok w w  ..................................... Fred Sonnenberg
meEH8oEE dN8N9oO wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww David Goldsmith
Managing Editor ...................................................... Dick Durstine
hiGOWE TaHWGO w wwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwwww uON8b uo9*o1
Yo0E Editor ............................................................... Estelle Herlick
DoOEG88o* dN8N9oODick Christensen. uoNWeOol TaHWGOBill 
Smith. fagoOWHEH89 dN8N9oOStan Rosenberg. fEEHEWN8W 
meEH8oEE dN8N9oOJerry Seiner. $HOre*NWHG8 dN8N9oOJoe 
LeMarca. DyGWG9ONiy1 TaHWGOMartin Snyderman. MoiGOWoOE 
Sheila Sullivan, Jack Armour. Joan Cummerton, Jane 
Sunder, Dave Hubbard. Jackie Connolly, Marilyn Seiner,
Ken Winston, Bill Minkler. cut MoiGOWoOEBarbara Leonard, 
Pat Maue, Joe Forsythe, Elaine Manuele, Ann Dwindle, Doro
thy Downing, Mildred Magura, Dave Robertson, Mollie Rudy, 
Delores Prus. hiGOWE MoiGOWoOtvEdward Feigenbaum, Rob
ert Steiger, Gene OReilly, Dick Eppler, Ivr Shechter, James 
Gore. $Gi1 MoNaoOPaul Carmichael. fOW hWNkkvJoan Brech
H8w Nelson Kelley, Dick Stahl. DyGWG9ONiyoOEBarbara Toia, 
Don Hand, Myron Lewis, Roger Gregory, Dick Wolfe.
uoNWeOoE StaffAndrew Stedry, Robert McQuaid, Lin Smith, 
Judy Storch. P1iHEWElayoe Nord. CoNa*H8o hWNkkVan An
derson, Pat Naugle, Dan Byers. $Gi1 dNboBLi hWNkkEllroy 
Young. fagoOWHEH89 hWNHOvMG8N*a GrfenwaJd, sHr Shiry, Mi mi 
Stem, Joan Newman. $HOre*NWHG8 hWNkkvRalph Antonito.
Represented for national advertising by NATIONAL AD
VERTISING, Inc., College Publishers Representative, 420 
Madison Ave.. New York City. Subscription $1.10 per year.
T8WoOoa as EorG8a r*NEE 2NWWoO G8 ArWG.oO 4, 1907, at 
Wyo DGEW Office NW DHWWE.eO9y4 DNw4 e8aoO Wyo frW Gk dNOry 64 
1879. frroiWoa kGO 2NH*H89 at EiorHN* ONWo Gk iGEWN9o iOGp
gHaoa kGO H8 Wyo frW Gk uo.OeNO1 28. 1925.
do2.oO Gk W.N fEEGrHNWoa $G**o9o DONNNw
% MREWod knittingavigvulnopy UNidK ......
Editorial
Back Council Amendment!
Last year we discussed in the editorial column the stu
dent government elections at Notre Dame where several of 
the students had proposed that the governing body be made 
more representative of the campus activities. Although their 
proposal was a bit drastic to be applied on the Carnegie 
campus, the basic idea behind it seemed to have spirit. Now 
Carnegies Student Council has just passed an amendment 
to increase its membership by adding 12 persons whom the 
Council believes to be representative of the extra-curricular 
program.
During the past two years much criticism has arisen about 
our Student Council, climaxed last year when several students 
circulated a petition requesting the Council to dissolve itself since 
it did not seem to be handling problems that were th most im
portant to the student body. Although this was passed over as 
being a radical proposal, it, nevertheless, made Council stop 
and take inventory of itself. It seems that at last something has 
been done, and now the final answer is up to the student body 
when the amendment is thrown to it for approval. ,
Although the basic organization of Council is all right, 
there are many issues that appear on the agenda with back
grounds completely unfamiliar to the members. Councilmen 
usually resort to two solutions when faced with such a 
problem. Either they feel that their opinion is as good as 
anyone elses, and they should attempt to reach a solution 
without too much lobbying. Or, not fearing the lobbyists, 
they turn to the first person who offers a solution, and usu
ally end out satisfying a minority interest.
Last weeks trouble concerning the poor turn-out for 
the bloodmobile resulted from such poor reprsentation. If 
a member of Alpha Phi Omega (as provided under the new 
amendment) had sat in on the Council meetings, he prob
ably would have eagerly handled all the publicity, or at 
least would have been in a position to force the person in 
charge of the bloodmobile to have the publicity completed 
in time to be effective.
The student body is now faced with the opportunity to greatly 
improve its student government and thus give itself a legisla
ture to handle any of the problems that arise on campus. As 
our Council stands now, there are many troublesome issues that 
are beyond its scope. When a serious problem is encountered 
by one of the schools publications, there can be no serious dis
cussion given it in Council meetings. Although the Council 
should not be entirely comprised of the campus wheels It 
should have such a representative membership that at least one 
of the members will have first hand knowledge of any campus 
problem, and still understand the functionings of the student 
government enough to offer a rational solution.
Student Council is to be congratulated on taking to 
heart the numerous criticisms preferred against it. But, if 
when the amendment is placed before the students, only 
scattered reception is given it, Council members will not 
feel that they have at last reached a level to be respected 
by all the campus. Therefore, each student owes it to Council 
to stand behind the proposal if it is acceptable, but not to 
let his affirmative vote be carried by others. Too many 
things are defeated by minorities this way.
Letters
Council Fumbles
Editor, the Tartan:
Mr. Durstine certainly hit the nail on the head 
when he proposed (Letters, Nov. 25) that Student 
Council might direct its attention to more import
ant matters than technical details involving dance 
preparations. The Councils anxiety that the by
laws be observed is absolutely justified, of course? 
but could it be that other subjects are being push
ed into obscurity as a result of extended discus
sion of these details?
Before the Council pleads innocent to these 
i charges, let me ask what happened to the Blood
mobile campaign. But lets not be coy: It is 
quite apparent that there was no campaign to be
gin with. Someone should have told Mr. Stedry 
about the power of publicity. There were only 
two ways for the students to find out about the 
recently completed blood drive. One was a par
tially obscured article in the Tartan, which, al
though it represented some interest on the part 
of the newspaper, appeared much too late for any 
effective reaction. The other clue, which required*a little deductive reasoning, was the presence of 
the Bloodmobile outside the Carnegie Inn on Mon
day.
In addition (or subtraction), the multitudes of 
pledge cards, solicitors, and the large appointment 
chart promised in the Tartan article seemed to be 
non-existent on November 26, the only day on 
which any of us could have possibly signed up* 
unless we had accidentally stumbled into a solici
tor earlier in the week. As .a result, the pitifully 
few amassed to a grand total of less than sixty 
donors. The Red Cross unit was equipped to handle 
150 donors, WHO COULD HAVE BEEN FOUND 
WITH AN INTELLIGENT AND EFFECTIVE CAM
PAIGN ON THE PART OF THE SPONSORS. H 
WAS DONE last fall.
So, Mr. Stedry and Student Council, congratula
tions on a very poor job. Besides providing the 
volunteer nurses and doctors with a completely 
useless day, we may have cheated about a hundred 
GIs out of their lives.
(Signed)
R. Snow.
Female Ultimatum
Every Saturday the Morewood girls usually 
spend half their dating time listening to the Tech 
engineers spin their tales of woe concerning the 
heavy academic load they carry. If they really al
ways have so much homework to do, where do 
they find the time to waste (their time and every
one elses) building snow walls?
Many Morewood girls were late for their 1:30 
classes and had to suffer with wet feet for three 
hours. If that is an example of the type of male 
we now have at Tech, many of the men may find 
themselves with nothing to do on Saturday night* ' 
but build snow walls.
Signed,
A Sneezy Home Ee.
Book Store Ode
Editor, the Tartan:
Off We Go to the Book Store
(To be sung to any applicably happy tune)
Dramas and speeches,
theyre there, well enshrined
With clerks just like peaches.
(the sour old kind.)
Books on Psychotics,
theyve sold quite a few.
(For clerking neurotics
needs straightning out too!)
Chorus: Off we go to the Book Store,
You, some money, and me;
Dont begrudge them their clerks, for 
Gee! they let us in free!
Get an expunger,
theyre rubber, and stout.
That manager-plunger
Should soon be rubbed out.
Clerks knew what joy meant,
When I was a lad,
But here the employment 
is certainly sad.
Chorus:
Signed,
K.E.L.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday; December , 1952CARNEGIE TARTANPage I
Tartans Split Season Hoop Openers
Waynesburg Nips Tech 64-60 
Scots Falter In Last 3 Minutes
Hoopsters Stress 
Defense9 Doivn 
Steubenville9 65-55
Coach Mel Cratsley had a wide smile after watching his small but scrappy Tartan five take Steubenville college over the floor-boards. This may be the only game Ill be able to smile after, so let me enjoy myself, came from big Mel who is taller than three fourths of his ball hawks.
Although this years squad is little, as basketball teams go, it was the overall defensive play which beat Steubenville. Techs defensive rebounding was exceptional considering the fact that they were much smaller in every position. The dimunitive Skibos grabbed 21 rebounds of which 15 were on defense.
Defense Holds BaronsThe game started out with the 'tiny Tartans ball-hawking and rebounding the taller Barons to a 
nine-point lead. The Barons were checked so well and so closely that they could manage to dump only one bucket, but they kept their hopes alive with five fouls. For the Skibos in the first quarter it was Jeske and Craig scoring, with Ackerman and Thompson setting up the scores with timely passing. In the second quarter, Cratsley put 
his second stringers in and they kept the lead till the last few minutes when the taller Barons, finding the rebounding easier with Craig on the bench, controlled possession and pulled to within three points of the Tartans. But freshman Ralph Mocker dropped one through the hoop as the buzzer ended the half to give Tech a five point edge to rest on during intermission.
Craig Top ScorerCraig, last years top pointgetter,
Unable to hold a slight edge# 
they gained in the last .period, the 
Tech Varsity went down to de
feat at the hands of Waynesburg 
College last Saturday, 64-60. The : 
opposition took the lead with only j 
three minutes to go, taking adj 
vantage of four Scot fouls, and J 
held on although the Plaid pressed ' 
hard. In the exciting fourth period the lead changed hands six times and was tied at six other points.
Each team was deadly at the free throw line, with Tech netting 18 out of 21 and the opposition 28 of 35. In individual scoring Percy of Waynesburg was tops  with 17 while teammates Mikoj  lanis and Burns followed with 13 j j apiece. The Clan score was spread | : out more evenly with nine men \' dividing the total; Tom Craig and Phil Jeske being the leaders with j 11 each.
In the Frosh game that preceed: ed the Varsity encounter the Cari negie freshman squad dropped j Kiski Prep 77-62. Jim Boyd was \ the top man on the court with 28 ; markers.
Carnegie
Ackerman, 
Hay, c 
Fieler, f 
Dosey, f 
Mocker, f 
Hyams, c 
Craig, c 
Thompson, 
Jeske, g
Totals
Waynesburg
Percy, f 
McKenna, 
Kovach, f 
Turpin, f 
Davies, g 
Mikolanis, 
Bums, g 
Kendig, g 
Joseph, g
Fa!H /FA/ oA!!Tom Craig and Bill Dosey battle for the ball with Waynesburgs 
Tamer Joseph and Kay Thompson looks on. The Yellow Jackets 
handed the Tartans their first setback of the season last Saturday 
night in the gym, 64-60.Totals
missing as the Skibos sank a poor 
44 per cent. But Mel Cratsley was 
smiling and from the looks of 
things he may smile several times 
before this basketball season is 
over.
led the Tartans with 17 and 
Thompson followed with 15, but 
Dosey and Jeske tossed in 9 apiece 
to keep abreast with the old-pros. 
The shooting from the field looked good, but the foul line eye was
Freshman Game
Kiski Prep
Klisanin
Maloney
Bierer
Gunderson
Manetz
Hewitt
Moore
Bolton
Pts.; Carnegie 
81 Boyd 
OiSavicco 
3| Line 
3 Wilkinson 
lGPascarella 
91 Bracken 
19; Becker 
4j McGinnis 
j Soxton 
j Bernath 
. MathewsonCraig And Stahle Selected On 
All-District Football Team
Water Polo
Entries for water polo are due Thursday, December 18, by 4:30. Eight men are allowed on the roster.
Total 62 Total 7fScore By Quarters
Carnegie 10 16 14 20 60
Waynesburg 13 15 14 22 64
1st 2nd 3rd 4thSeniors Tom Craig, end, and Clyde Stahle, tackle, have been 
selected to the first string offensive squad of the all-district Class B 
football team.
Carnegie defensive guard Frank Wengrzyn was put on the second 
string team by the rating board.
The team was selected by the coaches, who nominated the best 
men from their own teams and recommended the best they had 
seen on other squads.
All-District Offense:
Pos. Player College Wt. Class Home Town
ETom Craig . Carnegie Tech 190 Sr. East McKeesport 
EJohn Lovre Clairton 169 Soph. Trafford
TEarl Ceh Indiana 195 Jr. Millvale
TClyde Stahle Carnegie Tech 200 Sr. Greensburg
GG. Wilwohl Slippery Rock 185 Sr. North Catholic
GDino Angelici St. Vincent 190 Jr. North Catholic
CStan Hoover Wash-Jeff 190 Sr. Wilkinsburg
QBD. Banick Westminster 180 Sr. McKeesport
HBArt Massaro Wash-Jeff 190 Sr. Youngstown
HBK. Beadling Waynesburg 160 Jr. Bridgeville
FBElmo Natali California 195 Sr. Monesson
TECH
Ackerman, f. 
Dosey, f. .. 
Craig, c. ... 
Thompson, g. 
Jef e, g. ...
Hay, f............
Daniels, g. , 
Mocker, f. .. 
Bernath, c. . 
Fieler, f. ..
Totals
STEUBENVILLE
Gasparine, f. 
Durbak, f. . 
Brownlee, c. 
Filipone. g. . 
Douglas, g. . 
Quattorchi, f. 
Euppel, f. . 
Davis, g. ..University RecreationWARNER'SFOR A LONG TIME we've suspected 
that todays college man would 
no longer "gladly die for dear 
old Siwash. Neither does he play 
ukuleles and sing Alma Mater 
at the drop of a beanie.
We believe, too, that when it 
comes to sportshirts the college 
man is no different from his older 
brother in town. He doesnt go for
fads and screwball styles. But he 
does go for smartness, good work
manship ... and above all, value.
That is why we believe you'll like 
the new selection of sportshirts by 
Manhattan*. For they have all these 
qualities, plus a distinctive air that 
sets them above the ordinary shirt.
So ask for Manhattan ... the 
college mans sportshirt.
dfYAM
TotalsmAnK>YR
Score By Quarters:
Tech .............
SteubenvilleuqfSllpe FSee
Starts Friday, Dec, 12
Afternoon Bowling 
For Students
RENTAL of BOWLING SHOES
/mp glp'dpbd ehvp 
bdhlN Nhf m'vp 
pvpl bppEB cSempO 
'g'SEbd dmp mhbd Q 
'OvpEdflhfb ^ 
b'ckglhfEOb J 
SE dmp QhleO
today^^SB
407-09 CRAIG STREET 
SChenley 1-9307
THOSe F 
lg HAUT MCNDt
hyHOWE4 8orb0oNO4 
e8aoO0oNO4 iNZN2NE4 
EiGOWEyHOWE4 
.oNry0oNO N8a 
yN8aboOryHokE
date/
to fly home via
NORTHWEST
* AIRLINES
ERNEST HEMINGWAY'S
^ Finest 
double deck Stratocruisers 
coast to coast. Also 
low-cost Air Coach. J 
Call nearest Northwest J 
Airlines office or your I 
travel agent, f;
PT$CY>$AKAM 
SUSAN AVAPECK  HAYWARD  GARDNER
tth HILDEGAR0E NEFF . io 6. Cwrolt  Tor. Thatchei Produced 6 DlftcWd by Seren Ptiy bymm. r. Bokstr eRp rkl  toie byMkibk
hoOgH89 dNO1*N8a4 AyHG4 Dl88l1*gN8HN4 
sHO9H8HN N8a noEW sHO9H8HN kOG2
StorrinQ
Liberty Ave. at Grant St. 
Pittsburgh, Pa. CO 1-

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 9, 1952
SportcoMi
Lack of experience, height and stalwart players plus a tough 
schedule caused Coach Mel Cratsley to be pessimistic in viewing 
Carnegie Techs basketball prospects for the 1952-1953 season.
Only three upperclassmen will return to form the nucleus of 
this year's squadseniors Donald Hay, Kaye Thompson and Tom 
Craig, while five sophomores and six freshmen round out the 14 man 
squad.
Two Veterans Remain
The Tartans lost two of last years first-stringers via the gradua
tion route: center Hillary Holste, 6'4", second high scorer, and guard 
Tom Beck, the playmaker. This leaves only two seasoned veterans: 
Tom Craig and Kaye Thompson, co-captains.
Craig, now playing his fourth year of varsity ball, led the Tartans 
in scoring last season, averaging 17.3 points a game. He is a can
didate for all-district honors.
Thompson, the fastest man on the squad, also is a prolific scorer, 
E fine player around the bank boards, a ball hawk, and an excel
lent playmaker.
Lack of Tall Men
Carnegie Tech's average team height is about six feet. The tall
est man in the probable starting lineup will be center Tom Craig 
6'1X^". Chuck Bernath, a freshman, stands 6'5" but is inexperienced 
in collegiate play and probably will see only limited action.
Without a tall man to help control the boards, the Tartans will 
have to put emphasis on speed, accurate shooting and teamwork 
in order to win ball games. Since most of the boys have never worked 
together before as a unit^they will have to learn to coordinate them
selves to form a quintet that will click together by the midddle of 
the season.
Freshmen Furnish Reserve
The key to the Plaids success may lie with the reserve strength 
supplied by the freshmen. No less than six freshmen have ben kept 
on the varsity. These untested newcomers may provide a pleasant 
surprise.
Intramural Roundup
Sekuds, ATO, Sigma Nu 
Lead Volleyball Races
Campus Headquarters for Arrow Products 
Nationally Known Clothing and Furnishings
!raNADH'u irNu uFaM
Corner Forbes and Atwood St. Oakland
With only four teams remaining 
undefeated, final standings of the 
top clubs in each of the three vol
leyball leagues should be decided this week.
In the Plaid league, Alpha Tau Omega looks like they might go all the way, with Kappa Sigma A looming as the big opposition. Alpha Tau Omega has won seven 
straight games while Kappa Sigma A has won five straight. Kappa Sigma A won two games last week, swamping Roopsips B and then winning a close one from the Obelisks. Alpha Tau Omega won just one game by defeating the Obelisks 15-13 and 15-10. Roopsips B picked up a win by decisioning Beta Sigma Rho B and the Slugs knocked off Theta Xi A.
Sigma Nu On Top
The Kiltie league finds Sigma Nu A as the only undefeated team with the Faculty and Citcojn 
right at their heels, each having only one loss. Sigma Nu A picked up a win by defeating the Newman club 15-0, 15-7. Pandick was outstanding for the winners. Citcom stayed right in the race with a win over Phi Kappa B\ Other action found Delta Tau Delta B taking decisions from Phi Kappa B and Beta Sigma Rho A.
Sekuds Drop Betas
The Sekuds continued to set the pace in the Tartan league with a commanding 6 and 0 record. Sigma Alpha Epsilon, a pre-season favi orite, dropped to second place when they found Phi Kappa A a little too tough and dropped a 15-5 and 15-6 decision. Sigma Al
pha Epsilon came right back to hang a 15-4 and a 15-11 defeat on a strong Theta Xi B team. Beta Theta Pi, trying desperately to stay in the running, dropped a close one to the league leading 
Sekuds 15-7 and 15-7. Phi Kappa A defeated Delta Upsilon and Pi Kappa Alpha hung a defeat on Alpha Tau Omega B.
Vnlltyball Standings Tartan League
TeamWonLost
Sekuds60Sigma Alpha Epsilon31Beta Theta Pi42Theta Xi B42Phi Kappa A42
Pi Kappa Alpha33Delta Upsilon 25Delta Tau Delta C06Alpha Tau Omega B07
Kiltie League% ~
TeamWonLost
Sigrr.5 Nu A50FacultyS1Citcom51Boopsips A52
Delta Tau Delta B33
Beta Sigma Rho A24
Newman Club15
Phi Cappa B16
Kappa Sigma B03
Plaid League 
Team WonLost
Alpha Tau Omegf70
Kappa Sigma A50
Obelisks. 52
Slugs43
Tau Delta Phi33
Roopsips B24
Sigma Nu B13
Theta Xi A16
Beta Sigma Rho B05
The biggest wheels on campus
wear Arrow Shirts!
Arrow White Shirts, Arrow Solid Color Shirts, Arrow 
Stripes ... all in your favorite collar styles... SM.95 up
ARROW------------------------------------>?
___SHIRTS  TIES  UNDERWEAR  HANDKERCHIEF*  SPORTS 5H.RT5-
"An introduction 
to learning"
says J. HILLIS MILLER
DOoEHao8W4 L8HgoOEHW1 Gk u*GOHaN
"T.t Rtadtrs Digtst is an intrnductinn tn 
ltarning. Its varitty, brtvity, inttlltc
tual stimulatinn, stltctivt mtntal ditt, 
and gnnd .umnr ,.tt t.t appttitt fnr mnrt 
nf t.t samt. It ltads tn largtr fitlds fnr 
brn,sing and dttptr ctrtbratinn."
AUUFAiirD & rVANu. WEc.
ROY V. BEESE
6100 Penn Avenue East Liberty, Pa.
DISTINCTIVE HABERDASHERY
To busy students and educators, The Readers Digest brings 
each month a sweep of information which otherwise could 
be obtained only through days and weeks of painstaking 
research. Selecting and condensing the most significant 
material from hundreds of periodicals, The Readers Digest 
provides the widest collection of facts with the greatest 
economy of effort. ' -
? ? ?
In December Readers Digest, youll be interested in A Bible for 
the 20th Centurystory of the new Revised Standard Version of the Bible; What You Should Know About Your Eyesa report on eye care and the commoner eye diseases; England Prepares to 
Crown a Queenthe $300,000,000 preparations for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II.
WAA Intramural 
Volleyball And 
Swimming Results
WAA held their intramural 
swimming meet recently, with 
Ann Fairbanks copping first place. 
Mary Baleh placed second and 
Sheila Cullivan, third. Connie 
Stratton took top honors in fancy 
diving.
With just two weeks of play re
maining, four teams are fighting 
for the Womens Intramural Vol
leyball league championship. 
Standings at present are as fol
lows:
sG**o1.N** hWN8aH89E
Team Won Lost
Faculty Bulldogs ................. 6 0
Delta Gamma ........................ 1 t
Kappa Kappa Gamma ...... X 2
Alpha Epsilon Phi ............. 0 4
Your Trip Home Is
WN /Fr oAG oT /DAWN!
NO WEATHER OR TRAFFIC
delays to make you miss holidates 
. . . when you go home by safe, 
dependable train. Its a headstart 
on vacation fun, traveling with 
friends ... in roomy comfort with 
swell dining car meals!
IT'S A GIFT! If you and two
friends go home and return to
gether . . . Group Coach Plan 
tickets save you each up to 25% 
of the regular round-trip coach 
fares. Or a group of 25 or more 
can each save up to 28%! Head 
home in the same direction at the 
same time. After the holidays, 
return separately if you wish on 
this larger Group Coach Plan.
AuK TaUD DAW!DaAH /WCKr/ AGrN/ 
AoaU/ GDaUM M!AN ANH 
uWNG!r DaUNH-/DWM uAVWNGu
EASTERN RAILROADS

---------------------------------------------------

until 8:30 p.m. will be dismissed at 
8:00 p.m. Those classes which ex
tend until 10:00 p.m. or 10:30 p.m. 
will be interrupted for 15 minutes 
while those classes which normally 
convene at 8:30 p.m. will not meet 
until 8:50 p.m.
A large group of evening stu
dents enjoyed a similar program 
last year. It is hoped that all the 
newcomers will avail themselves 
of -this opportunity to join with 
their fellow students in this ex
pression of the spirit of Christmas.
Due to the fact that most even
ing students will not receive the 
next issue of the Plaid until Wed
nesday, December 17, it was 
thought advisable that this article 
appear in this weeks edition. We 
hope this will give all students, 
whether in class or not, time to 
arrange their schedule so as to be 
present.
V eteransHot CoffeeCADDWrGaB . f\ 
\ X // irst i jt-t X1/See FF O
Requisitions for books, sup
plies and equipment for the 
fall semester 1952-53 cannot 
be honored by the book tore 
after December 15.
More Milk
What Evening Student of 
long standing has finally been 
apprehended perpetrating his 
vicious scheme of defrauding 
CIT. It seems that this culprit 
has been buying coffee with 
his meals in Skibo, but using 
only enough coffee to cover 
the bottom of the cup, filling 
the rest with milk. A good 
way of getting 10c worth of 
milk for 5c. This, we under
stand, he had been getting 
away with for a number of 
years.
Page edited by Evening School Students of the Carnegie Insti
tute of Technology.
Editor ............................................................................... Victor Sabol
Reporters......... Anna Mae Legosh, Kathy Galligan, Charles Keller,
Ray Schwalm
Christmas Assembly 
Set For December 19use the New
MICROTOMIC
RENT A TYPEWRITER the Absolutely Uniform
DRAWING PENCIL
X f.EG*eWo e8HkGO2HW1 2oN8E aON0H89E 0HWyGeW 
U0oNb EiGWlvr*oN84 *o9H.*o aoWNH*w uN2GeE 
kGO E2GGWy4 *G89B0oNOH89 *oNaEw TNEH*1 aHEWk8B 
9eHEyoa .1 .e**EBo1o ao9Ooo EWN2iH89 G8 6w 
EHaoE Gk io8rH*w fW 1GeO rN2ieE EWGOo > A
Newman Club
A Month
3 MONTHS FOR $10
The Evening School New
man club will meet at the 
KofC hall, 201 North Craig 
street on Sunday evening, 
December 14 at 7:30 p.m.
Business meeting will be 
followed by a social. All 
members should be present.
TYPEWRITERS
All Kinds as Low as
American Typewriter Co,
n wood st. rn 1-inic
Convenient Parking
Fraternities and Sororities
Aio8 f8 frrGe8W N8a RoW 
IALM kLKK S>h$ALYP
OAKLAND HARDWARE
3606 FORBES ST.
Photographic 
Equspment and Supplies
fT-ME Photo 
Supply
GR 1-6467 - - 436 Wood St.KL$>Th PfhPT 
mTPPTM
For Better 
Dry Cleaning..
BCALM
hTMs>$T
$N2ieE
R*oN8oOE
4609 Uhlbpb ud.
ROUGH, DRY 
LAUNDRY and 
FINISHED LAUNDRY
tn dn*** bother 
this one sure.
FOR A CLEANER, FRESHER, SMOOTHER SMOKE
12 Inch
ir/A! DU!rDu 
UDrr dh Aee 
C.W./. udfOpEdbBe Hap(>y-GO LUCKY!
AMERICAS LEADING MANUFACTURER OF CIGARETTE#DMASL$P AD

---------------------------------------------------

Pagre 8CARNEGIE TARTANTuesday, December 9, 1952
by The Three Blind Mice
WHO IS THAT MAN? ... A
coed was walking up the stairs in 
Fine Arts minding her own busi
ness when the handsome figure in 
front of her turned to ask the girl, Where is the drama department? She graciously told him and went on her merry way. Hes a doll. 
I wonder who he is? A little later, a fellow appeared in class quite exhuberant and said, Touch me, 
gals, I just talked to Vincent Price.
WHAT FUN THE SNOW 
BRINGS . . . The boys were in 
their second childhood and had inter-fraternity snow battles. 
The barricade on the steps of the cut was excellent for filing ammunition in the direction of coeds 
walking by. Oh well, alls well that ends wellthe snow melted.
UNCLE EZRA SEZ ... Git along 
now you-ins and post yer litter to Santy ifn ya want that solid platinum slide rule, pre-spat-on paint brush, or jewel-studded pressure cooker.
THE INVERTED MINE SHAFT
. . . with bowl talk on the tongues 
of college students this time of the year, a few of the Pitt students 
were interviewed after the Penn State game. Queried, What do you think of college bowl games? 
one student remarked, I use tenpins.
DAB, BASKETBALL IS HERE
Wit football we dispenses ?Dribble sport commences Come out hereIts time to cheer Make no pretencesDont root against us No need for a pillNo need to shrill Give a few squeals
An watch the threels.
EIGHT WEEKS FOR DEGREE ... In one western college, students spent their extra 351 days 
figuring out that they go to college only 14 days out of every year. The statistics (?) show:
Out of 365 days a student sleeps away a third of this, leaving 243 days. Then there are 52 Saturdays and 52 Sundays. Subtract at least half an hour per day for lunch and three months vacation. This leaves 
91 days. Take away a couple of weeks for Christmas vacation; throw in spring vacation and 
Thanksgiving week-end. Sum total: two weeks of school each year!
Blood
[Continued from page 1] 
Malcolmn Billies, Connie Shana
han, Albert Plant, Edward Shana
han, John Kennedy, James Zim
merman, Grey Duncan, Wilfred 
Rouleau, William Boyce, Ralph 
Drischell, and Nick Aversa.
Still others were Alfred Sisca, 
John Button, Robert Snow, Estelle 
Herlick, Ronald Sorg, William 
Balentine, William Kerr, Fay 
Weiss, Robert E. Harig, James 
Feldman, Martin Snyderman, Ed
ward Pomerantz, Monty Montjar, 
Bob Lechner, Nancy Senard, Lee 
Singer, D. R. Lundgren, H. Don
ald Moss, Dick Franklin, and Noel 
Gillette.
Some of the other donors were Alan Demmerle, Alan Wissinger, 
R. M. Kramer, George Good, Jay Claster, Bob McDonald, Richard Murdock, Richard Smith, Harry 
Anderson, Phil Lubitz, George Land, George Sebestyen, Nancy 
Rausch, Arnold Sherman and Norma Trust.
Politicians !
Any Student Council candi
date desiring to make a cam
paign speech in Skibo Tues
day, December 16, should con
tact Richard Christensen at SC 
1-9888 no later than Saturday, 
December 13.
The facilities of WRCT will 
also be available for cam
paigning. Contact Don Hand 
at SC 1-9580 for further in
formation if you are inter
ested.
nfYPTS
Paintings, Drawings, Sculpture, 
Metalcraft and Ceramics
FOR CHRISTMAS 
GIFT MARKET
Opening Dec. 12
/Fr u/UHAD/ 
uFaM
722 N. Sheridan Avenue 
Pittsburgh 6, Pa.
Tues., Wed., Fri.7 to 11 P.M. 
SundayNoon to 6 PJVI.
December 25th?
BOOKS
For Everyone in the Family
That's It!
?
CHRISTMAS CARDS--- 
WRAPPINGS - - - 
C.I.T. CARDS - - -
?
SHOP NOW
Avoid the Rush
'W
CIT Book Store
Loans
Upperclass students need
ing long-term loans for the 
Spring Semester should place 
their application in the Dean 
of Students Office, AH 150, no 
later than January 5, 1953.
Your I.D. CARD Means15% hcc
/Wir uFaM
On
twWatch Repairs
 Lighters  Gifts Watches  Jewelry Identification Bracelets
3623 FIFTH AVE. - SC 1-7077 
(Fifth Avenue at Atwood St.)
$N2ieE rNioOE 
ro** kGO $Gbo
When grades are posted, get hold 
of yourselfmaybe the news is
good. Anyway, there'll always be 
problems ahead, so start now and 
face them refreshed. Have a Coke.
BOTTLED UNDER AUTHORITY OP THE COCA-COLA COMPANY BY
COCA-COLA BOTTLING CO. OF PA., PITTSBURGH, PA.
Cok* it a registered trade-mark.  1952, THE COCA-COLA COMPANY
McDonnell aircraft corporation
Announces Graduate Plan
for
MASTER OF SCIENCE
and
DOCTOR OF SCIENCE DEGREES
PURPOSE
To assist outstanding BS graduates in obtaining their Master of Science and Doctor of Science Degrees while employed in industry and making a significant contribution to national defense work.
ELIGIBILITY
January and June 1953 graduates receiving BS Degrees in the following fields: Aeronautical Engineering Civil Engineering Electrical Engineering Electronic Engineering Mechanical Engineering PhysicsThose chosen to participate in this Plan will be from the upper portion of their graduating class and will have evidenced unusual technical ability. They 'must also have evidenced imaginative ability and possess personality traits enabling them to work well with others.
CITIZENSHIP
Applicants must be United States citizens who can be cleared for Secret.
PARTICIPATING UNIVERSITY
Washington University in St. Louis will participate in this program and candidates for Master of Science and Doctor of Science Degrees must meet entrance requirements for advanced students at this university.
PROGRAM
Under this Graduate Plan the candidate will work full time at McDonnell Aircraft Corporation until September 1953. From September 1953 to June 1954 candidates will work at
M.A.C. from 28 to 36 hours per week, attending Washington University on an individually arranged schedule. A Master of Science Degree should be obtained within a maximum of two calendar years. Under this arrangement it will be possible for a candidate to earn approximately 85% of a normal years salary and to attend the university during regular semesters while working toward his advanced degree.
COMPENSATION
Compensation will be commensurate with the individuals ability and experience. Compensation growth will be on the same basis as the full time members of the engineering staff. In addition, the candidate will be eligible for all other benefits accruing to full time employees.
TUITION
Tution covering the required number of units necessary to obtain an advanced degree will be paid by McDonnell Aircraft Corporation.
SELECTION OF CANDIDATES
Candidates will be selected by officials of McDonnell Aircraft Corporation and Washington University.
DATES FJOR APPLYING
January 1953 graduates should make informal applications prior to January 10, 1953. McDonnell Aircraft Corporation will then forward formal applications which should be returned by January 20, 1953, accompanied by up to date grade transcripts. Selections will be made during the month of February. June 1953 graduates should make informal application not later than March 15, 1953.
Address Correspondence to
/rCFNWCA! M!ACrirN/ uUMrDVWuaD
McDonnell aircraft corporation
Post Office Box 516, St. Louis 3, Missouri
