Keaton and Howard at it again......................................................see pullout
Spring Skiing.............................................................................................................................page 35
The Tartan
Volume 80, Number 18Carnegie Mellon UniversityMarch 4, 1^86
UDS meal periods extended from 19 to 26
By NATALIE CAPONE
Tartan Staffwriter
University Dining Services (UDS) contract 
holders will have more opportunities to use their 
meal contract starting next year. UDS, which 
now operates on a 19 meal-periods-per-week 
schedule, is switching to a schedule which will 
allow students to eat during 26 meal periods 
per week. Although more meal periods will be 
available for dining, they types of meal plans 
will remain the same: 19, 15, 10, or 5 meals 
per week.
Patterned after this years Super-19 meal 
plan, the new meal system will be divided into 
four meal times on weekdays, and three periods 
on Saturdays and Sundays. According to Robert 
Choate, Director of Dining Services, the essen
tial difference between the present system and 
the new plan is the availability of two evening 
meal periods: from 4:00 p.m. to 7:45 p.m. and
from 8:00 p.m. to midnight, as opposed to 
single dinner periods from 4:00 p.m. to mid
night, that exists now. The proposed change will 
allow students who eat an early dinner to use 
their contracts again for a later evening meal.
Choate credits customer comments and in
put from the Auxilary Services Committee, a 
group which includes eleven student represen
tatives from major campus organizations, for 
prompting the new change.Contract Rate
This year, the Super-19 meal plan was im
plemented, giving students who had a 19-meal 
plan more opportunities to eat by splitting 
the dinner meal period in two, said Choate. 
Super-19 was designed to accomodate the 
crazy class schedules of some students, which 
prevent them from eating on a normal meal 
schedule.
Choate said that students seemed to like the 
idea of the Super-19 plan, but wished that itChanges/Analysis
Net Annual IncreaseMeal Plan85-6 Rates86-7 Rates$%
19 Meals$1,425$1,503$78.005.5%
15 Meals$1,270$1,341$71.005.6%
10 Meals$1,034$1,094$60.005.8%
5 Meals$546$566$20.003.6%
were available on a 15 or 10-meal plan. The 
26-meal period system was designed with this 
wish in mind.
The new change will mean a slight increase 
in addition to the annual price hike. (See ac
companying chart.)
Choate said that UDS is taking some steps 
to prepare for the anticipated shift in business 
that will accompany the 26-period change by 
adding another phone line to MorePizza to 
lessen the occurence of a busy signal for diners 
who call in, and restructuring the Tartan Grill. 
Other changes in the dining service include an 
increase in the contract cash allowance for lunch 
and dinner.
UDS Contract forms for the 1986-87 school 
year will be available beginning March 17, 
1986, and will include information about the 
new changes, Choate said.
Purchasing $3,000 workstations will be optional
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
By the fall of 1987, Bill Arms, Vice Presi
dent for computing, hopes to see advanced 
workstations available to Carnegie Mellon 
students with the targeted $3,000 price tag on 
them. At that point, the University will urge all 
incoming freshmen to purchase a workstation, 
though it wil not be mandatory. As Arms points 
out. To make anything obligatory is extreme
ly dangerous.
Arms clarified the purpose and objectives of 
the campus-wide computing network as he ad
dressed Student Senate and and additional au
dience of about 25 in the Wherrett Room on 
Tuesday, February 25.
We are currently in a period of intense 
change, a period of half-completed projects, but 
we are also seeing progress across the board. 
According to Arms, implementation of the cam
pus network may currently seem disorganized, 
but there is a method to the madness.
Students who choose not to purchase a 
workstation will still benefit from the network 
and the workstations themselves. Arms cited a 
recent survey which revealed that there are ap
proximately 103 different types of computers 
currently on campus. The general purpose net
Housing renovates 
Boss & McGill
The floorplan for Boss and McGill Halls will 
be entirely different from the current
arrangement.
This summer Housing will reconfigure the 
rooms so that hard-to-sell quads will be 
eliminated, leaving singles, doubles, and triples. 
Semi-private bathrooms, improved lighting, 
carpeting and area louges will be added.
I hese buildings will remain all male halls next 
year but the semi-private bathrooms will allow 
(-ed areas in the future.
work should be able to handle almost all of the 
different types of computers currently found at 
Carnegie Mellon, stated Arms, so individuals 
who own Macltoshes, for instance, will still 
benefit from the network.
In addition, by the fall of 1986, Arms hopes 
to see 120 advanced workstations which run 
Andrew in public clusters. At this time, there 
are 23 such machines available in the clusters.
Finding space for them is the biggest problem 
associated with putting more workstations in the 
clusters. In the future, there may be a substan
tial cluster of workstations in the Boss and 
McGill buildings. A cluster in Morewood is a 
possibility as well, but this is not definite 
because of the limited space in that building.
Vice President Arms believes that the 
workstation will be attrative enough for students 
to purchase them for several reasons. In terms 
of packaging, the new computer will not be 
much bigger than an IBM PC and so could com
fortably fit in most dorm rooms. Yet the screen 
will be approximately 1,000 by 750 pixels, or 
about twice the size of a Macintosh screen and 
will have high resolution graphics display.
With respect to hardware, Arms points out, 
It is all a question of degree. We are expan
ding along tracks that we already know, so in 
that sense we are not giving students anything 
new. The computer should have considerably 
fewer limitations on it in terms of hardware than 
existing machines. It will also be very powerful 
in terms of memory and speed. We are also 
negotiating for a wide range of good software 
that students can take with them when they 
graduate, says Arms.
Arms also believes that the new workstations 
and network will prove to be useful in ways that
have not even been considered yet. Arms is par
ticularly interested in using computers to access 
library information. He points out, An awful 
lot of mundane tasks are clearly done well by 
computing, but there is a general feeling that 
daily tasks are only the thin edge. When you 
give people new general purpose tools, you can 
never be sure'exactly what will come out of it.
AT&T discounts 
on software
PITTSBURGHAT&T will offer significant 
discounts on some of its powerful computer soft
ware and hardware to members of the InterUniversity Consortium for Educational Com
puting (ICEC), a group of 18 universities in
terested in advancing educational computing.
The discounts will be offered to ICECmember institutions for projects that are 
designated as qualified educational projects, 
says Ken Friend, director of ICEC, head
quartered at Carnegie Mellon University.
AT&T is one of the major computer 
manufacturers ICEC is working with because 
of their advanced personal computer products, 
continued on page 3
rvpqviif HI
TYPICAL FLOOR PLAN 26 BEDSBOSS AND McGiLL DORMITORY RENOVATIONS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanMarch 4, 1986
Brzezinski talks about Poland and the Catholic Church
By DRUE MILLER
Tartan Staffwriter
Dr. Zbigniew Brzezinski, former head of the 
National Security Council under President 
Carter and currently a professor of government 
at Columbia University, spoke on the state of 
affairs in Poland at the William Pitt Student 
Union (Pitt).
Poland, a country more than 95% Catholic, 
has been governed by a Communist regime for 
the last 40 years. Yet, the Church has main
tained its stronghold within the country, and is 
perhaps as powerful as the current government. 
Poland has been Catholic in all of its 
history...[since it is] part of the Soviet bloc, its 
subject to a great deal of political fermentation, 
uncertainty, and tests of strength." Polands 
geo-political location makes it a prime target for 
control of central Europe. Brzezinski describ
ed the Communist system as unique from other 
political systems, in that it depends heavily upon 
the subordination of society to the political 
system, followed by a restructuring of socie
ty by the same system, incorporating the 
political ideologies into societal principles. Recent occurrences would indicate that the govern
ment is succeeding in doing this; especially ex
emplary of this is the suppressing of the Solidari
ty movement.
In December of 1981, martial law apparent
ly crushed the movement. However, Brzezin
ski claimed such happenings are only super
ficially dismal." The entire movement has since 
become a side-spread, semi-organized" net
work, headed by a central committee. This com
mittee presides over regional and provincial 
groups throughout the country. An estimate 
800-900 underground newspapers are publish
ed each year, as well as more than 100 books. 
They operate several radio stations, and 
sometimes set up a temporary transmitter that 
overlaps the government operated television sta
tion, broadcasting brief pro-Solidarity messages.
In addition, they have set up a nationwide 
system of monitoring turnout at official elections. 
Results from some 44,000 booths showed 21% 
of the country voting, compared to the govern
ments official figures of 99%.
Brzezinski calls Solidarity a unique political 
alliance...composed of intellectuals, workers.
peasants...[working towards] non-violent, 
peaceful change. Solidaritys actions havent 
killed anybody, although people have been kill
ed in confrontations between the group and the 
government. He credits the U.S.s interest in 
human rights for encouraging the movement, 
as well as the Catholic Church; There is no 
doubt that the election of the Pope [John Paul 
II] gave a spiritual impetus to the movement. 
The Church still broadcasts mass openly every 
Sunday, something rare if not non-existent in 
most Communist countries. The role of the 
Church has grown from a place of worship to 
one of social, historical, and political interest 
and concern. Aid for political prisoners and 
their families (in the form of food, money, and 
packages) often from the Church. Brzezinski 
stated that the Church dominates the spritual 
and intellectual life of Poland...as an umbrella. 
Such strength and perseverance in the face of 
political oppression is a radical departure from 
the dominant model of Communism.
And what of Polands future? Brzeznski 
believes that we are seeing in Poland the first 
major failure of a political system. There is the
prospect of economic depression/devastation 
as well as spiritual demoralization, should the 
regime gain more power. This does not appear 
too likely, though; Communist enthusiasm in 
Poland is dead, and both the Catholic Church 
and the Solidarity movement are gaining 
strength. The West can help, but cant eman
cipate Poland, in the form of economic support, increased trade, aid for the underground, 
and a minimization of Polands isolation. Poland 
is looking towards a strong modernizing effort 
and widespread societal innovation from its 
younger citizens, even though the current in
clination among students is to leave the coun
try for more immediate opportunities. However. 
Brzezinski is confident in his claims that Poland 
is the beginning of the end for Communist 
systems.
Born in Warsaw in 1928, Brzezinski 
emigrated to the United States ten years later, 
eventually studying comparative government 
and international relations at Harvard, Colum
bia and McGill University. He traveled to 
Poland while with the Carter administration.
Retrospect: Poland in turmoil
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriter
For Poland, the past six years have been 
marked with both exultation and change, and 
depression and stagnation. The unprecedented 
formation of the trade union, Solidarity, in 1980 
was followed by a 16 month period of relative 
democracy, only to be ended with Gen. Wo|g' jeciech Jaruzelskis, Polands
jjjJBfl military leader, imposition of martial law in December, 1981. The
outlawing of Solidarity in October, 1982 mark
ed the beginning of a period of apathy among 
the Polish people that still persists. 
Solidaritys roots lay in the various protest ac
tions and free trade union movements that 
marked Polands economic scene from 1956 
to 1980. The actual beginning of Solidarity can 
be traced to price increases made by the Polish 
government in July, 1980. These increases 
motivated workers to demand a raise in wages 
and finally led to strikes, most importantly in 
the Lenin shipyards in Gdansk. It was here that 
an Inter-Factory Strike Committee was formed 
to negotiate certain demands they made, in
cluding free trade unions, the right to strike and 
economic reforms. The Committee was led by 
Lech Walesa, Anna Walentynowicz and An
drzej Gwiazda. After a tense period of negotia
tion, the government signed the Gdansk
Agreements on 31 August. On November 10, 
the Supreme Court officially registered Solidari
ty as an independent, self-governing trade 
union, with a membership of 9 million and Lech 
Walesa as its chairman.
The unhealthy economic situation in Poland 
that began in 1979 continued to worsen dur
ing 1980 and 1981. Agricultural production 
was low because of poor weather and fewer in
vestments were being made. Along with this, 
the threat of Soviet military intervention against 
the formation of a union grew. However, 
Solidaritys popularity among the people in
creased and strikes and sit-ins were organized 
continued on page 5
Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm
CalculusPM -126A
Pr 1, R, IN
PhysicsPH -1266
ChemistryPH - 2256
EnglshasaBH -1356
second language
EconomicsPH-2266
intro to ComputingWEH-5415
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Academic Writing ProblemsBH - 2356
DEBR ALYERour 
fraviteW nRditeW yrauBsi ,Rorv bKosraW ru 
vrcoYrRrv uE iEBR vERkF 
bLcc687-FOOD
Chll mFkF uE .ovaour 5 :Lie L frrsF :ERke0 ,RLurRaouore0pERERouore Maci
Collegiate Delivery Services, Inc.


---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 3
Cheaper dollar helps U.S. firms to compete
Bv JAMES MEACHAM
Tartan Staffwriter
The U.S. and Japanese governments have 
recently been trying to lower the value of the 
dollar on the world market. These attempts have 
been successful as the dollar has fallen approxiamtely thirty percent from where it was a year 
ago. This result has effects that reach much of 
the economy.
The first effect that has been noticeable by 
the average consumer is the increased price of 
Japanese goods in the U.S. That Mazda RX-7 
or Sony TV you had your eye on is more ex
pensive today than it was even a month ago, 
due to the exchange rate between the dollar and 
the yen. This phenomenon helps American 
firms better compete with foreign goods. The 
American auto industry was facing large surplus
inventories this year as it continues to over
produce. The foreign models are still cheaper 
than American made cars, but the price dif
ferential is not as great. This may mean better 
than expected sales for American made cars, 
helping to reduce the current surplus.
A directly related effect of the lower dollar 
is an increase in American exports and a reduc
tion in imports. American firms in general are 
selling more abroad, increasing revenues. 
Foreign operations are now intrinsically more 
valuable as their worth is converted into relative
ly more dollars. It would appear to be a good 
time to invest in American firms with foreign 
operations now that the dollar is on a decline. 
The increase in world sales and worth could 
cause American firms to start hiring more 
workers, or recalling some that were laid off.
This is definitely good news for our economy.
The news isnt all that good, however. Some 
of the American industries that are hurting the 
most will not feel any relief. One example is the 
farmer. Although there is the opportunity to sell 
more grain abroad, there is a world-wide glut 
in grain which offsets any advantage the farmer 
might have. The net result is that the farmer 
is not better off today than he was before. 
Another industry that is not helped, but for a 
different reason, is the steel industry. The com
petition in the steel industry comes mainly from 
countries whose currencies are linked to the 
dollar, or for some reason falling faster than the 
dollar is. For example, Korean steel is still 
becoming cheaper in America.
One last effect of the falling dollar that must 
be considered is the possibility of inflation. Now
that foreign goods are becoming more expen
sive, American firms can charge higher prices 
here and still be competitive. This is infla
tionary, because higher prices mean less buy
ing power per dollar. Workers will therefore 
want higher wages, which in turn cause higher 
prices still.
Despite the threat of inflation, the falling 
dollar is a long needed aid to the American 
economy. Firms can now be more competitive 
on the world market and exports are climbing. 
Higher profits are being seen in many 
industries.
Should we continue to hope for a lower dollar 
still? As long as American industries are benefit
ing and inflation stays under control, the 
answer will have to be yes.
Technology Today: Wireless Modems reviewed
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
There is a revolutionary phenomena in com
munication technology called Packet Radio 
which combines the personal computer and 
Amateur radio to provide the most efficient 
method for allowing virtually error-free, secure, 
and high-speed data transmission.
Packet radio is just as its name implies, the 
sending of a packet of information over the 
radio. Developed by amateur radio enthusiasts, 
it is quickly growing with possibilities for 
business, education, research, and the military 
as a viable alternative to the slow and inefficient 
method of modems.
Currently, computers talk to one another 
through what is known as a MODEM 
(modulator/demodulator). This device converts 
or modulates the computers digital signals in
to impulses that can pass over the telephone 
lines. The impulses are sent to another com
puter, which are then demodulated back into 
computer-recognizable signals.
Although advancements are constantly being 
made with modems, they will always be 
restricted by phone lines. Only one pair of com
puters may talk on any one line, just as only 
one phone conversation may be conducted on 
one pair of phone lines, thereby causing some 
limitations. Also, speed cannot be extremely in
creased, due to the direct relation between data 
loss (caused by noise on the phone lines) and 
speed, i.e. the faster the data is sent, the greater 
chance of error and loss.
Packet radio is an alternative to solve these 
problems. It works much like the current net
works set up across the country for computer 
modem communications. These networks take 
a bundle of gathered information (a program, 
a list of data, business transactions, etc.) and 
then ferries it from point XA to point XB 
through a system of other computers. Packet, 
however does not utilize the phone lines, or hard 
wired lines of communication. It uses the
airwaves.
The bundles (or packets) of information are
Auxiliary service enters Skibo
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
Construction began in the lower level of Skibo 
on February 22 in order to gain^much-needed 
office space for Dean Braden Walter and Aux
iliary Services. After this date, rooms 11, 12, 
13 and the corridor leading to those rooms will 
not be accessible. The construction is schedul
ed to last approximately 68 days.
When the move was originally proposed, Stu
dent Government President Karen Lee pro
tested adamantly. A committee was formed to 
start combing the campus for alternative places 
to put Auxiliary Services. The committee met 
on a weekly basis for approximately six weeks 
to examine the alternatives. Ultimately they 
satisfied me that there simply was no other place 
on campus to move Auxiliary Services, said
Lee. We looked at Warner Hall, Morewood, 
different acadmeic buildings and the Bureau of 
Mines, but there wasnt enough space 
anywhere.
Students will be losing room 11 as meeting 
space, but the meeting room currently located 
above the Skibo Information Desk will be 
renovated, The room which is currently under 
construction will be able to hold up to 36 peo
ple. In addition to this, the capacity of room 13 
on the lower level of Skibo will be expanded 
to hold 36 people. Once construction is com
plete, students will have lost only enough 
meeting space for 10 people.
Along with construction in the meeting rooms, 
the waiting area for shuttle and escort service 
users will be improved. A dispatchers office 
will be added into the office space.
MCS undergraduate journal established
By OLVE PEERSEN
Tartan Managing Editor
The Mellon College of Science has establish
ed a yearly publication, the MCS Undergraduate 
Research Journal. According to Mandy 
Paulovich, originator of the journal, the yearly 
publication is designed to prepare research 
bound MCS undergraduates tocommunicate ef
fectively through a professional medium by 
teaching them to properly format, organize, 
word, and reference their work.
Gaining publication in the Journal starts with 
the submission of a proposal to the student's 
departmental representative. Those students of
fered publication will then go through a series 
of editing sessions with faculty members who 
are experienced in formal research paper 
writing, and the final draft of the work is thus 
produced.
The qualifications for publishing are; l)The
student must be an MCS undergraduate doing 
research. 2)The research does not have to be 
done at Carnegie Mellon, and 3)The research 
does not have to be of the students own design.
Dr. Grotzinger, Associate Head of the Biology 
Department, pdints out that publication in the 
journal is not only be good experience, but is 
also valuable resume material. Combined with 
Carnegie Mellons research opportunities, 
publication in the journal will be an asset on 
any graduate school application.
There is limited space available in the upcom
ing Journal, and interested students are urged 
contact their departmental representatives as 
soon as possible and submit their proposals. 
Biology: Dr. McClure, X3430 or X3201 
Dr.Grotzinger, X3180 
Chemistry: Dr. Richman, X2318 
Mathematics: Dr. Schaffer, X2549 
Physics: Dr. kraemer, X2778 or X2747
addressed to a specified computer elsewhere 
in the country'. It is given a pre-programmed 
route through a series of other computer packet 
stations and delivered to be read at the 
designated station. The major difference bet
ween a network and packet is that packet allows 
multiple transmissions on the same radio fre
quency with virtually error-free accuracy (up to 
99%). It also is specifically addressed, so that 
only the desired station(s) may intercept and
read the message, thereby providing for secure 
transmissions.
Packet is proving itself by its immense speed. 
Currently, packet accommodates 9,600 baud 
(bits-per-second) transmission rate, compared 
to the 2,400 baud for the most advanced 
modems. Experiments undertaken by the 
Amateur radio realm are attempting to exceed 
the 56k-baud barrier. This is over a 600% in
continued on page 7
AT&T Software for ICEC
continued from page 1
says John P. Crecine, chair of ICECs govern
ing board and senior vice president for 
academic affairs at Carnegie Mellon.
ICEC develops educational software univer
sities can use on the powerful advanced func
tion workstations that are becoming increasingly 
available. It also works to create computer net
works on individual campuses and to provide 
software sharing among universities.
Many universities that are members of ICEC 
already are using software based on the UNIX 
operating system and software developments at 
Carnegie-Mellon, Massachussetts Institute of 
Technology and Brown Universityan impor
tant first step in developing this inter-university 
transportability of software, Friend says.
CMU
Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A levelPhone: x2636 MS: PS00@TE For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on anyTOPS System.
Epson Printer Clearance
(All priced at or below cost!)
ClearanceRetail
RX-80
RX-80 FT+
RX-100
FX-80
FX-80+
FX-100+
202.00
258.00
349.00
359.00
319.00
439.00
299.00
399.00
499.00
599.00
599.00
889.00
All items available in limited quantities 
and only while supplies last.

---------------------------------------------------

Andy Williams 
Jerry Lewis Rene Auberjonois
Steven Bochco 
Barbara Bosson 
Linda Braun
Lee Cass 
Rege Cordic 
Diana DiMarzio 
Barbara Feldon 
Robert Foxworth 
Diane Fratantoni 
"as Haid
^e*sso 
'W inS*'"
8:30 p.m. Saturday, April 19
Civic Arena
The Biggest Party
in the History 
of the University
PlusStudents
Scott Adler Kevin Charbonneau 
Shelley Dawson 
Gary Lindemann 
Lisa Peters 
Eric Ruffin 
Rob Woronoff
P\usCarnegie Mellon Sympl 
Cameron Choir 
'^her Choir
)X\0oVOK**\esVa
TV -
Ca'8'0',ChamDto. ^
Cheerleaders 
Drama Departme 
Jazz Band 
Jazz Choir 
Kiltie BandKiltie Band Dance Line,
PlusMacDonald Pipe Band
Highland Dancers George Gee and His Make-Believe
Ballroom Orchestrar
Come Celebrate 
Andys 150th Birthday 
The Talent of Carnegie Mellon 
Students and Alumni
Students, staff, faculty with Carnegie Mellon IDs are entitled to two free tickets. Student tickets are available at the Skibo Information Desk. Staff and faculty may 
obtain tickets by calling 8893 in the University Relations Office.

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 5
The rise and fail of Polish Solidarity
continued from page 2
against the government. These protests were 
aimed against Jarzelskis government in an at
tempt to improve the economy, especially in the 
area of food shortages. In September, 1981, 
Solidarity held its first national Congress and 
decided to develop its own economic program 
so it could influence decisions about the 
economy. The program called for an end to cen
tralized decision-making and the system of ap
pointments through Party connections.
By December, 1981 some members of 
Solidarity began calling for a firmer stance 
against Jaruzelski and for a push for his regime 
to make concessions. Some division within 
Solidarity was obvious, for during a meeting of 
the regional board of Solidarity in Gdansk, An
drzej Gwiazda, one of the 1980 strike leaders, 
and 14 others resigned from the union. They 
blamed Walesaa too-concilatory position in 
dealing with Jaruzelski. The union became more 
radical and forceful in making demands, plan
ning for a day of protest against oppression 
and a symbol of social unity on December 17. 
However, their plans would not be carried 
through. During the night, between December 
12 and 13, 1981, Jaruzelski had the Council 
of State declare a state of war (there was no 
official provision for martial law).
Although still a legitimate union, Solidarity 
was powerless to react to the imposition of 
martial law, for virtually all its leaders (in
cluding Walesa) were arrested and imprison
ed. One of the only leaders to evade arrest was 
Bogdan Lis, who later became a leader of the 
underground Solidarity movement. Jaruzelski 
justified his imposition of martial law by poin
ting to the problems caused by Solidarity. Its 
strikes and protest actions, he said, could lead 
to poverty and famine. Also, the state of the 
economy continued on its downward slide and 
the government could not do anything without 
Solidaritys approval (however, the slide had
begun in 1979, before Solidaritys creation). He 
claimed martial law was necessary to save 
Poland from civil war and chaos. The Soviet 
Union had also shown concern for the unrest 
and had pressured (both rhetorically and 
militarily) Jaruzelski to take action.
Spontaneous strikes that began after martial 
law was imposed were put down, often violenty 
by the ZOMO, motorized riot police. 
Jaruzelski proclaimed the beginning of a period 
of normalization, which is still in effect. The 
Reagan Administrations reaction to the imposi
tion of martial law was to place economic sanc
tions on Poland and the USSR, in an effort to 
pressure the leaders in both countries. The U.S. 
placed sanctions on the Soviet Union because 
of its close involvement in the martial law deci
sion. The Kremlin was defiant towards Reagans 
threats and sanctions, but the sanctions further 
weakened the Polish economy, causing a relax
ation of restrictions.
This relaxation also came about because of 
the stabilization of the country. Despite the eas
ing of tensions, Jaruzelski began eliminating any 
reformed institutions and weakened laws that 
emerged in 1981. In May, a number of the im
prisoned Solidarity members were released, 
although none were the top leaders. During a 
May Day parade, more than 20,000 Poles 
began a peaceful march, calling for the freedom 
of Walesa and an end to the Jaruzelski govern
ment. Solidarity continued to organize small 
demonstrations, until October 1982, when 
Polands Sejm (parliament) outlawed Solidari
ty and all other existing labor organizations. This 
outlawing cleared the way for the formation of 
factory-based unions, which were to be selfgoverning, but are actually controlled by the 
government.
A major force within Poland is the Roman 
Catholic Church, led by the Polish Primate Ar
chbishop Jozef Glemp of Warsaw and supportyed by Pope John Paul II. The Church has the
strong and faithful support of a large propor
tion (95%) of the population, giving it an impor
tant role in public affairs. During the period 
when Solidarity was legitimate, it called for a 
more moderate solution to problems that 
Solidarity wanted. However, it used its influence 
to try to achieve internal social calm.
With the imposition of martial law, Ar
chbishop Glemp used a low-key and counciliatory policy, attempting to prevent violence 
and maintain the Churchs sphere of autonomy 
and activity. However, individual priests were 
more radical and one, Father Jerzy Popelusko, 
was abducted and murdered in October, 1983. 
The Jaruzelski government allowed an investiga
tion and four secret-police officers were charg
ed with his murder. Another firebrand priest, 
Father Stanislaw Malkowski, was supposedly the 
initial target of the officers. Malkowski continues 
to speak out against the government and the 
popularity of the Church as a whole is growing.
The activity of the Underground Solidarity 
movement is still widespread, although the 
public support it got as a legitimate union is 
greatly reduced. The underground is mostly 
local and decentralized, without the control of 
what is now a divided leadership, but this ac
tivity was reduced when members were harass
ed by the police. Although Lech Walesa was 
freed in November, 1982, he is still monitored 
by the authorities and cannot play a major role 
in the movement. However, his popularity has 
remained high and was enhanced when he won 
a Nobel Peace Prize in 1983. The 
undergrounds main activities are the giving of 
financial aid to those persecuted by the 
authorities and the publication of Solidarity 
bulletins, 500-page books and even the in
troduction of a line of contraband videotapes 
for a growing VCR market.
Virtually all Poles agree that the more press
ing problem facing Poland today is economic, 
not political. From 1979 to 1982 there was a
constant decline in the economy. Recently the 
economy began to grow again, national income 
rising 6 percent in 1983 and 1984. However, 
there are a number of problems which still ex
ist; low levels of productivity, declining quality 
of goods, a huge international debt ($26.8 
billion to the West, 4.8 billion rubles to socialist 
nations) and economic sanctions from the West. 
The regime has developed an economic reform 
plan, which allows for a greater role for the 
market, increased autonomy for enterprises and 
reductions in central controls. However, 
because the Polish labor force is sullen and 
withdrawn, it is hard to effectively use the 
decentralized system, which relies on en
thusiastic workers. Despite this, increases in na
tional income and gross industrial output in
1983 and 1984 are signs of an economic 
recovery.
At present, the governments continued at
tempts at normalizations and stability have 
been somewhat effective (helped greatly by the 
Poles apathy), but it has not achieved political 
legitimacy. The issues brought up by Solidari
ty, democracy, political participation and justice, 
still haunt the Jaruzelski regime. Most Poles do 
not want to consider these issues and have 
either turned to family affairs, the Church or 
as in the case of many young people, alcohol 
and drugs. The authorities hope to improve their 
political legitimacy with economic growth, but 
face the problem of trying to increase political 
participation and control without provoking a 
revolution.
THE SHADOW PROGRAM at Auburn U. is 
giving undergraduate business students a view 
from the top. Local business executives are 
volunteering to let the students "shadow" them 
throughout their workday. The executives also 
talk to the students about the problems the\ face 
and the decisions thev must make.
egieApartheid:
Facts and Responses
A Teach-In at Carnegie Mellon University
March 10,1986 Skibo Ballroom
4.00 Richard Elphick, Wesleyan College
A leading historian of South Africa
4:40 A Representative of the South African Government
5:20 Cecelie Counts, TransAfrica
Coordinator of the Free South Africa Movement
6:00 Dinner Break
7:00 Dr. Robert J. Schwartz, Vice President, Wall Street
Investment Firm; Former U.S. Treasury Official
7:40 Danisa Baloyi, Columbia Coalition for a Free Southern 
Africa; South African Graduate Student at Columbia 
University
8:30 Panel Discussion Chaired by Richard M. Cyert
President, Carnegie Mellon University

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanMarch 4, 1986
Marcos gets the boot and runs to Hawaii
By GAVIN WILLIAMS
Tartan Staffwriter
On the evening of the 25th. Marcos finally 
fled the Philippines, ending his 20 year reign. 
Accompanied by his wife, Gen. Fabin C. Ver 
and other family members, Marcos was flown 
to Guam on a U.S. Air Force plane. Marco had 
made a phone call to Senator Paul Laxalt ask
ing if Reagan wanted him to step down. Laxalt 
told him that the time has come" and that he 
would be given haven in the U.S.. Marcos was 
taken off the U.S. plane at Guam on a stretcher, 
an obvious sign of his deteriorating health.
The Reagan Administration praised the 
peaceful transition of power that took place in 
the Philippines and immediately recognized the 
new government set up by Corazon Aquino. The 
people of Manila were jubilant, running through 
the streets and storming the presidential palace. 
Many Filipinos in the U.S. also rejoiced with 
signs promoting Aquino s victory.
As the celebrating went on. President Aquino 
began forming her new cabinet, which is a blend 
of opposition politicians. Salvadore Laurel, the 
Vice President was named Prime Minister and 
Foreign Minister, Juan Enorle was named 
Defense Minister and Gen. Ramos became 
Chief of Staff. Despite the general support for 
Aquino, some Filipinos feel the election was just 
a change in cronies, from Marcos cronies to 
Aquino cronies.
However, Aquino began freeing many 
political prisoners, including those that belonged 
to the NPA (the Communist movement). The 
NPA insurgents announced they would continue 
their fighting, despite the removal of Marcos. 
The Aquino government took steps to take 
millions of dollars in assets from Marcos that 
could have been gained illegally. They seized 
boxes of newly printed money (worth $65
million) that was going to supporters of Marcos 
in the Philippines. Meanwhile. Marcos moved 
on to Hawaii, where he recieved a warm recep
tion from Hawaii's governor, George R. 
Ariyoshi. He is living in seclusion with friends 
in Hawaii. Although there are still doubts about 
Aquinos ability to run a government, the fact 
that Marcos is finally gone is a major step to 
the rebuilding of the Philippine democracy.
How it happened
The tension that ran high during election day 
(Feb. 7th) in the Phillippines and afterwards as 
ballots were counted, rose as President Mar
cos declared himself the winner while his op
ponent. Corazon Aquino condemned the elec
tion as fraudulent and claimed she had won. 
On Sunday. Feb. 16th, Aquino announced a
program of strikes and boycotts as the beginn
ing of a non-violent campaign to remove Mar
cos from power. The program was to include 
a one-day nationwide work stoppage and 
cancellation of classes .the day after Marcoss 
inauguration, which was to occur on the 26th. 
Aquinos also said she would address the na
tion each night for 15 minutes if she could get 
the use of a radio station.
Marcos continued his stubborn cling to power, 
stating I am President. They are not going to 
drive me out, because the people are behind 
me. He also announced the resignation of 
Chief of Staff Gen. Fabian C. Ver, (to be replac
ed by Gen. Fidel V. Ramos) although U.S. of
ficials said his resignation would not be enough 
to quell dissatisfaction in the Philippines. The
I .S. also announced it would not send any high
level officials to Marcoss inauguration in a show 
of protest. The Administration also forecasted 
high level resignations and defections for the 
Philippine Cabinet because of discontent among 
Marcos supporters.
The turning point in the Philippine crisis came 
over the weekend of Feb. 22nd, when Marcoss 
Defense Minister Juan Ponce Enorle and deputy 
Chief of Staff Lieutenant Gen. Fidel V. Ramos 
resigned from the government and called for 
Marcoss resignation because of the fraud in the 
elections. Their actions showed the decline in 
support Marcos had and was a signal to 
Washington that Marcos should seriously con
sider resignation. Enorle and Ramos, along with 
loyal troops barricaded themselves in the 
Defense Ministry Headquarters in Camp 
Aguinaldo. Thousands of supporters gathered 
outside to help protect them from troops still 
loyal to Marcos.
The next day the two moved to Camp Crame, 
a mile from Camp Aguinaldo and were again 
protect by pro-Aquino crowds. When a column 
of armed personnel carriers headed towards the 
encampment, the crowds blocked their path. 
Marcos denounced the two as rebels trying to 
establish a revolutionary government.
Because of the unrest in the Philippine capital 
of Manila, Marcos declared a state of emergency 
and curfew on Tuesday, Feb. 25th. However, 
he continued to claim he was well and announc
ed he planned to go through with his inaugura
tion. He ignored the pressure put on him to 
resign by the Reagan Administration and Con
gress and his own government and military. On 
the same day, Juan Enorle and Gen. Ramos an
nounced that they recognized Aquino as the 
legitimate president and took positions in a pro
visional government. The pressure was too 
much for Marcos, he abdicated that evening.
OUR SCHOLARSHIP HELPS YOU BEGIN YOUR CAREER AS A LEADING ENGINEER.
An engineering degree will take you far in today's high-tech Army And with an Army ROTC scholarship, earning that degree can be both less expensive and more valuableThe scholarship not only pays your entire tuition, regardless of the amount, but also required fees, an amount tor books and supplies, and up to $1,000 each school year for living expensesIt s an excellent scholarship And it gets you a lot more than an engineering degree Along with your regular courses, you U take Army ROTC classes and leam about motivanng people, analyzing situations, making confident, informed decisions, and reaching defined goals In short.
you'll leam leadership and management skills that can t help but enhance your opportunities in the futureAnd you 11 put your skills to work right away, because you re commissioned in the Army as a second lieutenant when you graduateIf you'd like an education in leadership and management to go ak>ng with your engineering degree, find out more about Armv ROTC. Contact your Professor of Military Science
ARMY ROTC. 
BEALLYOUCANBE.
Our three-year and 
two-year scholarships won't 
make college easier. 
Just easier to pay for.
Even if you didnt start college on a scholarship, you 
could finish on one. Army ROTC Scholarships 
pay for full tuition and allowances for educational 
fees and textbooks. Along with up to $1,000 
a year. Get all the facts. BE ALL YOU CAN BE.
See Captain Colvin in MMC B7 
or call x2205/x2196
ARMY RESERVE OFFICERS' TRAINING CORPS

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 7
Packet data transfer with amateur radio
continued from page 3
Minutes of the Student Senate, February 18, 1986
Meeting called 1 order 7:05.
Present: Appelbaum. Ayre, Bollinger, Bram, 
Flvnn, Frank, Giles, Greenberg A, Greenberg 
M. Hausman, Hynes, Jagerski, Kaplan, Kornbrek, Lee A, Lonsky, Mukherjee, Murphy, 
Noesen, Patnaik, Rocher, Sheinfeld. Salomon, 
Tavlor, Welsh, Whysel.
Absent: Cohen, McDonnell, Novak, Trampel 
(all excused)
Audience Participation: none.
SDC: The Lonely Hearts Dance raised over 
S500 for MS.
Academic Affairs: AA is still looking for com
ments/suggestions regarding the Federated 
Learning Communities.
Campus Affairs: Leslie Frank has made up a 
shuttle/escort survey. Please fill it out if this con
cerns you. Surveys can be found at the Info, 
desk and at the Senate office.
Funding & Recognition: The Greek and NonGreek Involvement Committee was granted 
$250.00 to help cover costs of Greek Sing. 
The MS Drive committee was granted 
$1500.00 to rent chairs and mats for activity 
in early March.
Public Relations: There will be a Senate Hap
py Hour in Scotland Yard on Feb 28 at 4:30.
Meeting Adjourned 7:25.
IT MAY NOT BE SPACE INVADERS, but
it only costs a quarter and could save your life. 
According to the Canadian University Press, a 
student pub at the Ryerson Polvtechnieal In
stitute has a wall-mounted breathalyzer: Drop 
in a coin, breath through a straw, and a digital 
display tells you if your blood alcohol count is 
above the legal limit. The $2,000 machine was 
installed by the local BACCHUS chapter, and 
is expected to pay for itself in one year.
crease in speed and a mainfold increase in data 
density.
Also, due to the error-recovery nature of the 
packet network, all this information is transmit
ted virtually error free. The data is encoded in 
such a way, that if the receiving station does 
not receive the entire message, or the checksum 
error-checking code is incorrect, the network 
will keep trying to get that information through 
until it receives an acknowledgement that is has 
been sent correctly.
Because it depends solely upon coding ad
dressing, a packet of information cannot be 
decoded except by the intended receiving sta
tion, even though other stations may 
acknowledge the receipt and retransmission ofMinutes of the Student
Meeting called to order 7:00. 
Present: Appelbaum, Ayre, Bollinger, Bram, 
Flynn, Frank, Giles, Greenberg A, Greenberg 
M, Hausman, Hynes, Jagerski, Kaplan, Kornbrek, Lonsky, McDonnell, Mukherjee, Murphy, 
Novak, Patnaik, Rocher, Sheinfeld, Taylor, 
Trampel, Welsh, Whysel.
Absent: Cohen, Lee A., Noesen, Salomon, (all 
excused).
Audience Participation: Vice President of 
Computing, Bill Arms spoke with Senate on the 
subject of Andrew, the up and coming computer 
network at CMU. By the fall of 1987, Freshmen 
will be urged to buy one of the new supercom
puters', but it won't be obligatory. These com
puters will take up no more room than a PC 
and will be sold to the student for a special 
package price, estimated $3,000. Andrew is 
based on the UNIX system and is designed to 
be a completely decentralized system. Among 
other things, the computing network will
the packet. This provides for a verv secure and 
spectrum efficient communications system.
It is relatively easy for a person to enter this 
world of packet communications. Once airway 
certified, through a required amateur radio 
license, a personal computer, an amateur radio, 
and a Terminal Node Controller (TNC) which 
interfaces the two is all that is needed.
Although still in the development stages, 
packet radio is advancing and is currently be
ing closely studied by commercial manufac
turers and the military. Amateur radio has pro
ved that is an effective high-speed, secure, and 
reliable method of communication that soon will 
actively compete with the modem. It is a costeffective alternative to phone lines. Amateur 
radio has bridged the gap between computers,Senate, February 25, 1986
distribute software, put information services at 
the users fingertips and distribute class material. 
For those who do not wish to buy their own com
puters there will be public clusters throughout 
the campus community. The current main ob
jective is get people comfortable using these 
machines. Dr Arms left by urging the students 
to give their input and suggestions.
IFC: Teri Jones is the new IFC representative 
on Senate.
Chairman: On March 10, 4:30pm there will 
be a teach-in on South Africa. Everyone is 
welcome.
Academic Affairs: Keep an eve out for Don't 
Panic, a series of lectures on the TOPS-20 
system which cover how to logon and use the 
exec, Emacs,Scribe, MM, BBoards, ect. These 
lectures are sponsored by the CMU Computer 
Club and the Academic Affairs Committee of 
Student Senate.
Meeting Adjourned 8:25.
radio, and communications technology and is 
on one of the many forefronts of technology.
For more information on packet communica
tions, contact the Carnegie Mellon Radio Club, 
which is actively involved in packet and also 
gives amateur radio licensing classes and licen
sing exams.
Author's Note: 
This issue of Technology Today' is the 
first of a weekly series intended to keep 
abreast on the forefront of the current ad
vances in the world of high technology. It 
is intended as a brief overview of some of 
the latest innovations at Carnegie Mellon 
and around the world.
Florida Mothers Against Drunk Driving. 
WADD. hopes that this years College Spring 
Break will be safe for everyone. Last year's 
tragedies included three students who fell to 
their deaths off hotel balconies and two other* 
who were murdered hitchhiking to Florida. We 
sympathize with their parents because we 
understand the anguish of senseless loss.
We want you to come to Florida to have good 
times and enjov well-earned vacations. But 
please do not come to drive and drink or to use 
drugs. *
SPRING BREAKMAKE IT SAFE. 
Sincerely. 
Florida Mothers Against 
Drunk Driving 
Tom Carey 
President
Digital Electronics Engineering 
And Computer Science Majors
Siecor Corporation, a fiber optic communications 
company, is recruiting on your campus. Come to our 
information session March 17, 7:30-8:30 P.M. in the 
Wherret Room fo learn more about opportunities in 
the high growth fiber optics industry.
jLtiBfldltauiflfcSiecor is a Siemens, Corning Company SIECOREEO Employer Corporate Development
DECREASE STRESS
SIGN UP FOR WORKSHOPS AT THE COUNSELING CENTER:
MANAGING SCHOOL & PERSONAL STREES
4 Wednesdays, 4:30 - 5:30 p.m.; begins February 26
GOING HOME AGAIN: DEALING WITH PARENTS
2 Wednesdays, 4:00 - 5:00 p.m.( March 12 & 19
THE WOMENS GROUP
4 Thursdays, 5:00 - 6:00 p.m.; begins February 27
GETTING ALONG: DEALING WITH ROOMATE CONFLICT
4 Tuesdays, 4:30 - 5:30 pm.; begins February 25
UNDERSTANDING ALCOHOL AND DRUG ABUSE IN FAMILIES
2 Tuesdays, 4:00 - 5:00 p.m., March 11 & 18
FOR INFORMATION AND REGISRATION: Call x2922, or visit 
Counseling & Student Development Center 
Morewood Gardens, E Tower, Room 103 
9:00 a.m. - 12 noon & 1;00 p.m. - 5:00 p.m.
Pennsylvania Governors School 
for the Sciences
at Carnegie Mellon University 
Mellon College of Science
L ndergraduate summer employment will be available w ith 
the Pennsylvania Governors School of the Sciences. The 
PGSS is a five week summer school for very talented high 
school students from Pennsylvania. Teaching Assis
tant/Counselor appointments will be available for biology, 
chemistry, and physics laboratories as well as tutorial duties 
in computer science and mathematics.
Preference will be given to scholastically sound applicants. 
You will be expected to simultaneously serve as dormitory 
counselors and to live in the same dormitory as the PGSS 
students, see that PGSS disciplinary rules are adhered to. 
provide tutorial help in the academic program, and social 
activities.
Stipend for five and one-half week period: $1000-$ 1400. 
(Depending on experience)
Free room and board
School in session from June 29th to August 2th 
Applications for an interview available in the office of the 
Pennsylvania Governors School for the Sciences.
DH 2201. For further information, contact Professor 
Caretto. x^f69.
Application Deadline: March 14. 1986.

---------------------------------------------------

Student Government President
and
Student Senate Elections
April 9 and 10
Candidate petitions available
at
Skibo info desk
from
March 4 to March 18
Senate Seats Open are:
5n CIT
3n CFA
3n MCS
3n H&SS
1n GSIA

---------------------------------------------------

Maybe there is a 
substitute far experience.
After youre done with 
school, you face one of 
the hardest lessons in life:
Without experience, its 
tough to get a job. And 
without a job, its tough to 
get experience.
At The Wall Street 
Journal, we recognize that 
experience is something 
you dont start earning until after 
you graduate.
But while youre waiting, we can 
give you a head start by providing 
some of the same competitive advan
tages that experience brings.
For instance, our wide-ranging 
news coverage gives you a clearer 
understanding of the whole complex 
world of business.
Our tightly focused feature 
reporting prepares you for your more 
specific ambitions  whether in 
management, accounting, finance, 
technology, marketing or small 
business.
And our in-depth analysis helps 
you formulate your ideas in a sharper 
and more persuasive way.
Call 800-257-1200f ext. 899- 
or mail the couponand start your 
subscription to The Wall Street 
Journal at student savings of up to 
$44 off the regular subscription 
, price.
I Thats a pretty generous offer 
Especially when you consider 
what it actually represents. 
Tuition for the real world.
pi)subscribe,call800-2SM20^-| 
exL899Jtoll-fiee.
Or mail to: The Wall Street Journal, 200 Burnett Road,
Chicopee, MA 01021
? Send me one year of The Wall Street Journal for $63a 
saving of $44 off the regular subscription price.
? Send me 15 weeks for $26. ? Payment enclosed.
? Bill me later.
Student I.D.#..Grad. Month/Year.
.State.Zip.
Major.
These prices are valid for a limited time fur students only in the continental U.S. By placing 
your order, you authorize The Wall Street Journal to verify the enrollment information 
supplied above.
TheWfcll Street Journal.
The daily diary of the American dream.
In Pennsylvania, call 800-222'3380, ext. 899. C1985 Dow Jones & Company, im

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial
Alumni Contributions: 
Pride and Profit
By now we are all aware of the $200 million capital cam
paign which will be kicked-off by the "Carnegie Salutes 
Carnegie" event on April 19. We have heard that the first 
project scheduled for completion is the new University 
Center. That is, if we come up with the $21.6 million 
necessary to complete the recreation/athletic facility. To 
raise that amount of money, the universtiy will need con
siderable alumni support; we must continue to support our 
school after graduating.
While the tuition here is a big financial burden on us 
all, it is still not enough to sustain the university and finance 
major capital improvements all well. If we truly advocate 
enhancing the university environment, then we must must 
be contributing alumni, and we should all advocate im
proving the school.
Many students, and presumably many alumni as well, 
seem to scoff at the rather esoteric idea of pride as a reason 
for being contributing alumni. But it is not simply a ques
tion of pride. We chose to spend our collegiate years at 
Carnegie Mellon, and in doing so we became an integral 
part of the school. A university is defined by its students 
and graduates, and it is the responsibility of these in
dividuals to shape the course of the institution, with this 
in mind, it seems that continuing to contribute to Carnegie 
Mellon after graduation reflects not just pride, but a desire 
to support and improve quality, private higher-education. 
The better the school, the more valuable your degree.
The senior classes of the past few years should be com
mended for having raised enough money to make tangi
ble contributions to the campus. The Class of 1983 
established a fund to pay for one endowed entertainment 
event each year; the Class of 1984 paid for the clock on 
the cut outside of Doherty Hall, and the class of 1985 
raised $20,000 to pay for the bar in Scodand Yard. The 
Class.of 1986 is trying to raise $25,000 to build a park
like area on the mall beside Doherty. If 250 students (that 
is only one-fourth of the senior class) would give $100 
split into payments over the next three years, then the 
$25,000 goal would be met and the campus community 
would enjoy the benefits for years to come.
The alumni relations and annual giving offices should 
be commended as well. They are making enormous ef
fort to contact all of the alumni by phone or through the 
Summer Visitation Program. An oustide firm is also be
ing employed to contact alumni by phone, particularly 
alumni who have never contributed to the school. The New 
Jersey-based firm currently has a 35% success rate. 
Presently, 27% of our alumni are contributing alumni. 
That number is above the national average of 22% and 
is rising, probably because of the effectiveness of these 
tactics. But a school of this quality, with as many successfful 
graduates as we have should not have to perform such 
gymnastics to gain the support of its alumni.
The only way that Carnegie Mellon can continue to im
prove physically and academically, and turn out satisfied, 
successful graduates is if it has outside financial support. 
Projects like the University Center, which would so 
enhance the quality of life here will never get off the ground 
without the alumni.
Letters:Carnegie Salutes Carnegie: comment on editorial
bxlitor:
Your February 18 editorial about 
"Carnegie Salutes Carnegie'" upsets 
me. I am reminded of a pious 
pilgrim who w as accosted after Sun
day worship by a wealthy man pro
posing to give a gift of some silver 
coins to the man. "My friend, you 
should know that I abhor doing 
business on the sabbath." the 
pilgrim admonished. You must 
come back tomorrow with your gift.
Carnival Weekend is an excep
tional time, if not a holiday, but your 
protest that we bring in "CSC" some 
other time, shows that you are naive 
about the difficulty involved in put
ting on this type of professional 
entertainment. Many factors point to 
that Saturday evening as the best 
available time. You are also 
mistaken if you feel that the univer
sity was capable of paying the 
highest-paid entertainers for this 
show . Carnegie Mellon cannot afford 
what you are suggesting. If it w eren't 
for the generosity of Misters 
Williams. Lewis and our alumni, we 
wouldn't have an event for you to 
criticize.
An event that relies upon the 
contributions  not the paid 
servicesof top-notch stars of stage, 
screen, and television like alumni 
Barbara Feldon (A 55). Charles 
Haid (A '68). Barbara Bosson (A 
70). Nancy Marchand (A *49) 
Robert Foxworth (A '65). and Bene 
Auberjonois ( 62) has never been at
tempted in the 86 years in the 
history of Carnegie Mellon. I am em
barrassed that your editorial would 
treat the contributions of these stars 
Un casually. We are quite fortunate 
to have alumni who care enough 
about the university to return to put 
on "CSC."
The only {joint of your editorial 
that I agreed with was your statement 
that this "is a classy way to kick off 
a capital campaign." We are not 
likely to attempt this feat again soon, 
but if you. pious pilgrim, aren't in
clined to attend, maybe you could 
wait another 86 years for the next 
"opportunity for us to enjoy the 
talents of Carnegie Mellon students 
and graduates, and appreciate the 
school's contributions to the world of 
entertainment...and to the world..." 
It probably will be a long wait and. 
w hen that time comes. I hope a Tar
tan editorial won't insist that you 
should wait until a week after that 
Carnival.
Some other points: In your haste 
to write a story that would pit the 
students' interest against that of the 
alumni or the administration, vour 
editorial overlooks a couple of impor
tant items. First, the university has 
worked with the Carnival Committee 
throughout in its planning. If you had 
asked someone on Carnival Commit
tee. you may have discovered that 
the event planners talked with them 
before deciding on the final date of 
April 19th for CSC." The fact that 
we are trying to secure several 
Hollywood stars to walk the midway, 
judge exhibits and start the buggy 
races was probably a factor in their 
consent. It's likely that these stars 
would attract greater attention to 
Carnival and it's also likely that the 
additional publicity will bring more 
business to the booths and concesssions. I think you should applaud 
their decision to conspire in this 
event. Or, maybe, you feel that Car
nival's theme of "Hollywood." is a 
coincidence.
You also overlooked that the 
university is looking into providing 
bus transportation for students to the 
Civic Arena. Dean Brad Walter is 
looking into getting buses so that 
students will be transported down 
and back quickly, easily, and safe
ly. Ycru also didn't mention that this 
endeavor was free to all students 
with an I.D. W e want to encourage 
e\ery student, faculty and staff 
member to attend. But these are 
minor oversights.
Perhaps the most upsetting thing I 
about your editorial was that you 1 
completely dismissed the fact that I 
this event will kick off a $200 million j 
capital campaign that is vital to the 1 
health and prosperity of this univer
sity. Additional contributions are J 
necessary to improve student | 
facilities, to upgrade educational op$ 
portunities. and to enhance faculty i 
capacities. Another article in the 1 
same February 18th issue of The j 
Tartan described one project of I 
critical importance to the student 
body, the university center, a focus | 
of the campaign's immediate attenf 
tion. This university center is at the 1 
top of the university's priorities for I 
the capital campaign. Student Senate J 
president Karen Lee reported in her 
article that Dr. Cvert made a firm ^ 
commitment to the project at the p 
Board of Trustees meeting on 
February 10th. In view of the . 
positives to be gained by helping get | 
the campaign kicked off properly. I i 
have difficulty understanding your |1 
editorial.
It appears to me that the great mar 
jority of students are in favor of the J 
university center and the upcoming I 
campaign for funds w hether they like 11 
Andy Williams or not. I suspect, too. a 
that many of them won't want to wait j; 
another 86 years to attend an event 
that showcases our Hollywood alum
ni and a dozen other successful 1Ialumni from science, engineeringg 
business, public affairs, social I 
Sciences, education and the arts. 1 I 
would hope for better support from 1 
the editors of The Tartan in the weeks I 
ahead as we prepare for "Carnegie^ | 
Salutes Carnegie." Whether th's I 
event is a part of a campus marriage g 
or a divorce depends largely on ho" g 
you. the editors, compare its pluSfS B 
w ith its minuses. So far. you have no*  
compared all the factors.
K. Keith I
Vice Pre-id*-"11 
liiivcrsily Relali,,? 1

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 11
Inquiring Minds really dont give a damn
Bv The Inquiring Staff
(Warning: The following contains satire. The 
Surgeon General has determined that satire may 
be hazardous to your health.)
Have you had this problem? You go home 
over break, and people ask you 
what school you go to. You proud
ly reply Carnegie Mellon and 
receive a blank stare in return. 
Employers know about us, but were talking 
about the important people, like your state 
school friends and eighth-time removed cousins 
who are oblivious to Carnegie Mellons ex
istence. Carnegie Mellon needs something to 
reach these people. As always, we have a few 
suggestions.
Everyone knows that the most important thing 
about a school is its number of national titles, 
and were not talking about Division III hack
ing either. Its the easiest way to make the 
papers, unless of course, we dopt win. Thats 
why we need a sport we can dominate. So we 
think CMU should form an NCAA Division I 
Buggy Team.
. Every year we could hold a tournament and 
invite buggy squads from other schools. Even
Computers and censorship
By Dan Tobias
In recent years, electronic mail and bulletin 
boards have become increasingly popular as a 
form of communication. Numerous hobbyists 
Vj have turned their personal com
puters into Bulletin Board Services 
 (BBSs) allowing other computer 
users to send messages to each 
other. Commercial services such as Com
puServe and MCI Mail offer various computeriz
ed communication tools. And, right here on 
campus, students and faculty enjoy the conve
nience of electronic mail to contact each other 
and people at other universities through com
puter networks, and to carry on discussions on 
BBoard systems readable by the whole cam
pus community.
Thus far, such communications have been 
carried out in the American tradition of freedom 
of speech, with little governmental interference 
in the nature and content of messages sent. The 
operator of an individual system can determine 
the purpose and rules of that particular system, 
which leads to a wide diversity of bulletin board 
systems and other information services for all 
types of people.
However, this is theatened by some new 
legislation that is being considered by Congress. 
One ominous bill, the Computer Pornography 
and Child Abuse Prevention Act, is currently 
being considered by a committee of the U.S. 
Senate. Among other things, this bill would ban 
lewd, lascivious, or filthy communication 
from electronic services, prohibit the exchange 
of information related to sexual contact between 
minors, and impose criminal penalties on the 
operators of any computer system on which 
such messages are sent.
What this means is that operators of computer 
systems used for electronic mail, whether they 
are hobbyists running a private BBS, operators
of commercial .data serv ices like CompuServe, 
or the CMU Computation Center, which runs 
the TOPS systems which include E-Mail and 
BBoards, would be forced to constantly snoop 
into the content of private messages to make 
sure nothing that any governmentbureaucratt 
might considerr dirty shows up. And the 
blue-noses might decide that any computer 
message containing a four-letter word, the threeletter word sex,"' a digitized image of a naked 
girl, or other sugh fun stuff, constitutes a lewd, 
lascivious, etc. message which would be a 
criminal offense.
All in all, this is just another of the distress
ingly common censorship bills being flung 
around by federal, state, and local authorities 
throughout the country. The New Right and 
New Left, usually vicious enemies of each other, 
have banded together in an unholy alliance to 
restrict what we all can read, watch on TV,' or 
send by computer mail. The right-wingers wish 
to promote the common morality by sup
pressing whatever they decide is indecent. 
The left-wingers want to end exploitation of 
women by suppressing anything referring to a 
woman in a sexual context, even if the women 
involved participated voluntarily. Both groups 
use extremely vague definitions of what they 
wish to ban, which would give wide discretion 
to the busybody censors they would have the 
government appoint to suppress any reading or 
viewing material they do not like.
Together, these groups wish to follow in the 
footsteps of Hitler and Stalin by giving the 
government sweeping powers of censorship in 
the name of social engineering. All free-thinking 
individuals who wish to preserve the rights of 
speech and press must viciously oppose these 
laws, especially as they relate to the dynamic 
new electronic communication forms which may 
someday supplant paper and telephone as the 
maior form of communication.
Letters continued: 
CFA offended
Editor:
I would like to express my disgust over a com
ment made in very poor taste by your Iquiring Minds."" Their remark stating that it was odd 
how the campus fruits eat at a vegetable place 
(Salads Plus) was yet another example of the 
condescending attitude constantly exhibited by 
others towards CFA. Fruits grow on trees 
people do not. Where the hell did you crawl 
out of?
A campus newspaper, even if it isn't of very 
good quality, should not be in support of views 
held unjustly toward any group of people. 
Your "Inquiring Minds'" are pathetically
narrow.
A.J. Panos 
Freshman 
Architecture
CFA
Editor's Note
The editorial page, Ms. Panos, is a forum for 
opinions. They may be the opinions of an in
dividual or a group, a minority or majority. They 
are not necessarily the opinions of the editor or 
the editorial board. The only presentation of the
official opinion of the editorial board is found 
in the editorial itself, which is located on the 
far left side of this page. Had you read the opi
nion policy beneath the staff box, you would 
realize that in printing a letter or column, the 
Tartan is not supporting or advocating the opi
nions contained therein.
Please also note that the Inquiring Staff is 
comprised of three students who are not members 
of the Tartan editorial board. Their opinions, 
therefore, are not necessarily consistent with the 
opinions of the Tartan editors.
Divestment
Editor:
On Monday, Feb. 10, Students Against Apar
theid presented to the Board of Trustees 
Finance Commitee a petition of over 1500 
signatures of faculty, students, and staff sup
porting total divestment of CMUs investments 
in South Africa. In addition, we presented a pro
posal detailing our arguments for divestment 
and possible courses of action we feel it would 
be appropriate for CMU to take.
The Finance Committee, after listening to our 
presentation and questioning us for 45 minutes, 
responded with a flat no. In their statement, 
continued on page 12
when they start showing up well still win, 
because only at Carnegie Mellon will people get 
up at 4 a.m. to push a go-cart.
As an added bonus, we could finally gain the 
ultimate status symbolrecruiting violations! 
We envision a report in the Post-Gazette that 
CMU has tampered with a 36 senior from 
Toledo, Ohio by offering him a $200/month in 
TOPS accounts.
Another way to gain attention is to entice 
celebrities to attend CMU. Inquiring Minds 
dont give a damn about Brooke and her friends 
at Princeton. Surely we could find someone 
famous who truly embodies the spirit of the 
campus, a person like Gary Coleman or Mary 
Lou Retton. A double gain would be having 
them as buggy drivers!
Other schools also make the news bv having 
famous people has-beens on their faculty, like 
Henry Kissinger and Jimmy Carter. We could 
probably get Ferdinand Marcos and Baby
Doc Duvalier (we hear they both need work) 
to head a new political science department. 
They could even teach a class, Fundamentals 
of Military (Benevolent) Dictatorships.
Perhaps we could hire Dr. Ruth and Phylllis 
Schlafly to teach Gender Roles and Social 
Values a.k.a. How to Earn Your Scarlet Let
ter and Wear It with Pride. Lastly, for.graduate 
students, we could hire James Watt to teach an 
advanced course in Pubilc Relations. With these 
people how could one avoid making the 
headlines?
Finally, we d like to'see the Skibo expansion 
put to a really good use. So, vote for 80,000 
more square feet of Gray Matter! This has never 
been done before, anywhere, probably for a 
verv good reason. Then again. Inquiring Minds 
Reallv Don't Give A Damn.
The Inquiring Staff is Stew Levine. Randy 
Wilson, and Chris W illiams.
Student senate elections approach
By Eric Rocher
On April 9 and 10 there will be the spring 
student senate and presidential elections. All ac
tivities fee paying students are eligible to run 
for a senate seat. Petitions are available at the 
Skibo Information desk.
There are at least three reasons 
H} for joining student senat^Student senators care about CMU. Senators want to know what students 
need at CMU. There are a number of ways to 
contact a senator: you can drop by the office 
at Skibo 59, you can call the senate office at 
x2115, you can visit a senator during his of
fice hours. You can also come to student senate 
events or even attend a Tuesday night senate 
meeting.Student senators represent the needs of all students. This semester senate has looked in
to art students problems in the Doherty sub
basement studios, offered workshops, in conjuction with the computer club, for students who 
want to learn how to use the TOPS computers 
and expanded the hours of the libraries and 
shuttle/escort. When distributing the student ac
tivities fee, the finance committee regularly 
decides on how much senate funded organiza
tions will get based on intuing how a majority 
of the students would want the money spent.Student senators clear up problems. 
Recendy senators have worked on issues such 
as the safety of Margaret Morrison Street 
pedestrians, have questioned the price ($4) of 
multiple transcripts, and have surveyed the
status of the Student Advisory Councils (SAC's) 
throughout the departments.
Ever since a person was hit by a truck in front 
of Margaret Morrison this semester, senate has 
been preparing to ask the city officials to make 
Margaret Morrsion Street safer. The Campus 
Affairs committee is completing a study of the 
problem.
Another issue senate is dealing with is the 
price of official grade transcripts ($4). Senators 
want to know why they must pay so much for 
transcripts, especially when they ask for multi
ple copies and must pay $4 for each.
The academic affairs committee is completing 
a survey of the Student Advisory Committees 
in the departments. SACs vary from department 
to department, but are generally composed of 
a handful of students who occasionally are ask
ed to make recommendations to departments. 
The senate report will document what depart
ments have SACs and what the SACs actually 
do.
The senate has a number of projects which 
were begun at the beginning of the semester and 
are about to be completed. The Tartan will 
report on some of those projects as they are 
completed. Working together, senate is getting 
things done.
Eric Rocher is a Junior in Biology and is in 
the Health Professions Program. He is chairman 
of the student senate.
The student senate meets on Tuesday nights 
in the Wherret Room at 7p.m. All students are 
invited to attend.
The Tartan
687- F--OD-C
Managing Editor
Vijay Reddy
!\ews Editor
Jill Dorson
Sports Editor
Albrecht T. Powell
Production Manager
John Babich
Dossier Editor
Lisa D. McAnanv
Editor-in-Chief
Christy Casamassinia
Features Editor
Jack Poller
Photography Editor
Celeste Clark
Ad Manager
Mohan Embar
Contributing Editor
oleC gOi-atvCC
Business Manager
Bruce Kasrel
Entertainment Editor
Michael P. McHugh
Art Editor
Kathryn A. Sitter
Typesetting Manager
Karen Gray
Contributing flditor
TheJEditorial appearing at the beginning of the 
opinion section is the official opinion of The Tar
tan editorial board. Columns are the opinions 
of individual authors who are not necessarily on 
The Tartan Editorial Board or Staff. Letters to 
the Editor are opinions of individual authors who 
are usually members of the Univerity communi
ty. A letter intended for publication must be sign
ed and include the writers address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be withheld 
upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to 
condense or reject any letter.
Copyright  1986 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to withhold 
from publication any copy it deems unfit for 
publication.
Office: Skibo 50. (412) 268-2111.
Mailing address: The Tartan
Carnegie Mellon University 
Box 17
Pittsburgh, PA 15213-3890
Funded by the Activities Fee All rights 
reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanMarch 4, 1986
Letters continued: 
Bidinotto Lecture: possible source of misconceptions about Bhopal
Editor:
The following is m^ response to your article 
in the issue dated February 18, which you 
should realize is aimed primarily at correcting 
any misconceptions that Mr. Bidinottos lecture 
might have engendered among Mr. Bidinotto's 
listeners.
While I have no intention of ignoring the role 
of Indian industrial policy in that accident, I 
disagree with Mr. Bidinotto as to that being the 
real cause. A lot of facts" that he quoted to 
support his interpretations are not only 
disputable but sometimes blatantly wrong. For 
instance, he claimed that Indian Govt.s ap
proach to economy is exacdy the opposite to that 
of Western Capitalism. To corroborate this opi
nion he mentioned the nationalization of banks 
as just one instance, forgetting totally that 
private banks and financial institutions far out
number the nationalized banks.
He repeatedly mentioned a law that made it 
impossible to fire workers. When I pointed out
Editor:
I read with concern the account of Robert 
Bidinotto's lecture on the Bhopal industrial ac
cident (The Tartan, Feb. 18). I would have been 
amused, had not the subject related to an ap
palling human tragedy. Allow me to comment 
on a few of Bidinotto's points;
1. The (Indian) governments encouraging 
domestic self-sufficiency allowed situations to 
develop in which those who were in contact with 
advanced foreign technology are unable to ful
ly understand its complexity. . . the Bhopal peo
ple were capable of operating by rote but could 
not fully appreciate concepts such as preven
tive maintenance."
I wonder if Bidinotto is aware that for years 
nuclear power and research reactors (including 
fast breeders) have operated in India without 
radioactive leaks or core meltdowns, Indian 
rockets have put into orbit Indian satellites, and 
research vessels have mined the deep sea bed 
for non-ferrous nodules. These technologies 
have all been developed in India, and inciden
tally as projects of the Indian government, in 
which according to Bidinotto bribery and 
'sweetheart deals' are rampant." First, was the 
Union Carbide pesticide technology more com
plex? Second, did or did not Union Carbide 
bribe any Indian functionaries? If they did. then 
presumably it was to gain exemption from the 
policies and regulations that Bidinotto finds 
irksome, in which case these policies could 
hardly have contributed to the accidient. If they 
did not. then what exactly is the point of Bidinot
to's complaint? (I do not suggest that there is 
not graft in India; however, I suspect that In
dia does not hold patent rights on corruption.) 
(Incidentally, under Indian penal law. the bribe 
river. no less than the bribe taker, is culpable.)
2. (The Indian government) had complete con
trol over the design and setup of the plant." By 
the beard of the prophet, no! If that had been 
the case one can hardly suppose that Union Car
bide would have resisted citing the fact in their 
defense in the US court. I would advise Bidinot
to to check his facts."
3. To expedite this (Indians to manage, staff 
and run all India-based industries). . . Western 
culture must be *force-fed to Indian workers. 
As a statement of the Indian government's 
policy, it is dead, factually wrong. If however 
this is Bidinotto's personal prescription for suc
cessful industrialization of non-Western 
societies. I think he might find visits to the Sony 
and Toyota plants in Japan of considerable 
educational value.
4. The unwillingness of companies such as 
IBM and Coca-Cola to relinquish control over 
daily operation caused them to leave India." 
Wrong again! IBM and Coca-Cola left India 
because they declined to transfer technology to 
their Indian subsidiaries (which they were rethere was no such law at least until I was there 
(i.e.. August 1984), he claimed that what he 
quoted was from other reports. So much for in
vestigative journalism.
He believes that encouraging self-sufficiency 
allowed situations to develop in which those who 
were in contact with high technology are unable 
to fully understand its its complexity. No sane 
developing country would dare do otherwise. 
Perhaps he is not aware that Indian nuclear 
plants are just as high-tech and are wholly run 
by Indians. I believe Indian space research is 
also high-tech. That brings to fore his comments 
about Indian space research which I think were 
irrelevant, unwarranted and stupid.
Union Carbide is not the only high-tech 
foreign company in India. And the fact that a 
lot of smaller indigenous too manufacture 
pesticides as he himself mentioned leads me to 
believe that he is confused. Perhaps a govern
ment lending support to fledgling Indian com
panies with perhaps just a hundred thousandth
quired to do under Indian law), and not because 
the Indian government sought any management 
role. Incidentally, the departure of IBM and 
Coca-Cola did not quite prove catastrophic for 
the Indian soda-pop or computer industries. 
The wholly Indian companies which took their 
place now compete with IBM and Coca-Cola in 
export markets (and India exports computer 
peripherals and software to the US). Maybe 
Bidinotto can see the moral. Maybe. . .
5. The Indian government gave loans to 
farmers and relieved local pesticide manufac
turers of the obligation to pay sales tax... (as 
a result). . . the output and profits of the Union 
Carbide plant fell. . . more highly skilled peo
ple became depressed and left." In India sales 
tax is payable by the consumer, not the 
manufacturer. If Eidinotto is in fact referring 
to excise. Indian law forbids discriminatory 
treatment between manufacturers, and in any 
case Union Carbide (India) which ran the plant, 
though partly owned by Union Carbide (US) is 
legally an Indian corporate citizen. One has to 
look elsewhere for the reasons for Union Car
bides loss of profits. Is it wholly unrealistic to 
suggest that Union Carbide (US) underestimated 
the extent of competition in the Indian pesticides 
market, and accordingly passed on outdated 
technology to its subsidiary? (Though Bidinot
to seems to imply this, the Union Carbide plant 
was by no means the first, or the last, pesticide 
plant in India. Incidentally Union Carbide con
tinues to repatriate handsome profits on its 
Indian-made batteries; again the market is 
competitive.
6. The managers opted to take their schedul
ed tea-break. . . the relief valve burst an hour 
later." The leakage occurred at 5 a.m., which 
would place the tea-break at 4 a.m. Anyone 
familiar with India would doubt that even In
dians commence drinking tea much before 6 
a.m. However. Bidinotto would be aware that 
as a matter of strategy. Union Carbide (US) has 
been tryng in court to shift responsibility to 
I nion Carbide (India), in order to minimize the 
total assets which iso-cyanate leaked, this fact 
could hardly have failed to be cited by Union 
Carbide (US) in court.
As a sidelight. I might mention that after the 
leakage. Indian doctors detected symptoms of 
Cyanide, (apart from iso-cyanate). poisoning, 
and cabled Union Carbide (US) to confirm that 
the leakage included hydrogen cyanide. Union 
Carbide (IS) denied that under their technology 
any cyanide formation was possible. Several 
hundred additional lives were lost before an In
dian (government) laboratory demonstrated that 
cyanide formation was indeed probable in the 
I nion Carbide plant, and accordingly advised 
doctors to give appropriate treatment (intraveinous sodium thiosulfate). I need hardly add 
that this is a matter of public record, but must
the capital of Union Carbide to start with is 
foreign to Western Capitalism. As for the pro
priety of the act, I am no judge.
IBM and Coca-Cola moved out of India not 
because they had to relinquish control over the 
operations but because they were asked to 
transfer technology (formula in Cokes case). Of 
course India has its share of dumb politicians. 
That the government responsible for this soon 
collapsed is history.
He quoted, If you want to start a business 
in India, youve got to bribe the right party. 
As someone who has lived in India and been 
in contact with some businessmen. I can 
definitely say that this is not true.
I think people who cant judge and evaluate 
should restrict themselves to presenting facts 
and leave interpretation to more intelligent peo
ple. Otherwise facts tend to get distorted.
In conclusion it is only fair to give my opi
nion. Firstly, I hope not to have absolved the 
Indian policies of all blame for the simple reason
refrain from further comment.
At another level. Bidinotto seems to make a 
plea for the exemption of multinational corpora
tions from the domestic policies, and even law, 
of the host countries (which at least in the case 
of India have been reached through meticulous 
democratic processes). If he were alone in the 
effort (and incidentally in fortifying the same 
through resort to fable), it would not matter. Un
fortunately he is not, and is it then any occa
sion for surprise that the participation of 
multinationals in the economies of developing 
countries is viewed with considerable disquiet 
by responsible (and not only marxist) quarters 
in these countries?
Prodipto Ghosh 
SUPA, PhD
Divestment
continued from page 11
the Trustees said that because the issue of 
divestment is a very serious issue with farreaching consequences, they concluded that 
divestment is...not an appropriate measure...to 
take in response to the complex problems in 
South Africa. One of the options we suggested 
to the Trustees was to form a committee made 
up of students, faculty, staff, and Trustees in 
order to study the issue further. They rejected 
this, apparently believing that a 45 minute ses
sion with us was long enough to spend study
ing the complex problems of apartheid. If the 
issue of divestment is a very serious issue with 
far-reaching consequences, shouldnt we 
spend a little more time talking about it?
Our presentation was accompanied by a pro
test in front of the Mellon Institute (the location 
of the Board meeting). The presentation and 
protest was reported on by the Pittsburgh PostGazette, the Press, the Courier, Channel 2, and 
a number of radio stations. However, the Tar
tan was silent about the entire event for the two 
weeks following the meeting. If the citys media 
felt this campus event was newsworthy, why 
doesnt our own paper? To add salt to the 
wounds, the last Tartans Inquiring Minds 
column mocked the current lack of student ac
tivism; this column appeared the same week the 
Tartan news staff ignored our protest.
Maybe if the Tartan had seen fit to report the 
Trustees meeting, they could have noted that 
neither of the two faculty Finance Committee 
representatives and only one of the three stu
dent representatives showed up at the meeting, 
and that the one who did show up declined to 
comment while we were present, but ripped into 
us after we left the room, denying us our right 
to respond to his criticism. Maybe the Tartan 
could have reported that President Cyert sits 
on the boards of at least four corporations that
that there is still a lot wanting in them. Madhya 
Pradesh, the state where the plant is located is 
one of the very backward states. In such areas 
it is very easy to bypass the laws and bribe 
politicians to get things done. Why Union Car
bide agreed to set up a plant there is not a ques
tion I wish to address Obviously Indian policies 
had a major role to play here. Real estate bef1 
ing very cheap in this region, it is not unlikely 
that Union Carbide was delighted with the deal. 
Had this been located in some place like Bom
bay or New Dehli or Madras it might have been 
a different story. I think the people running the 
company have been apathetic and are over
whelmingly responsible for the accident. If In
dian government did indeed own 23% of the 
shares through other government organizations, 
then it is the fault of the management of those 
companies and it is absurd to relate this 23% 
figure to the industrial policy or to the accident, f 
Balaji Sh yam k umar 
ECE
operate in South Africa, and that 23 of our 
trustees also are either the Chief Executive Of
ficers or sit on the boards of a number of cor
porations operating in South Africa. Or maybe 
the Tartan could have pointed out that Cyert, 
who has in the past supposedly supported par
tial divestment, suddenly changed his mind and 
spoke against any divestment, partial or total, 
the week before our presentation.
Who are these people that run this school? 
How ethically are they running it? And why isnt 
the Tartan telling the campus whats going on?
Students Against Apartheid
 \  , I 'Cartoons again
Editor:
I don't know about everyone else, but Im get
ting a little tired of all the boo-hooing going on 
about Tartan cartoons. I cannot think of a 
single instance of satire that does not ruffle 
feathers. There are a lot of attitudes in this world 
that I find offensive, and if I proceeded to 
itemize them here, you would have to devote 
an entire issue of The Tartan to this letter.
Sick humor exists; There is a veritable 
plethora of humor published (e.g. National 
Lampoon) filmed (Monty Python), and 
recorded (George Carlin, Richard Pryor, Len
ny Bruce, Frank Zappa). Enough in fact to en
sure that evervone in the world is offended. Youimay hate all of the aforementioned examples 
(though I doubt that even our myriad of complaintants acutallv does), and that is your right.
If you take all such "humor seriously, then 
you are bound to be offended. You may also 
find that no one will talk to you unless they are 
on a ten second tape delay, so that they can 
edit out anything that they say that might be 
construed the wrong way.
l"m not advocating indijcriminant use of slurs, 
offensive language, or stereotypes, but on the 
comics page I would have to say consider both 
the source and the intent before you get all hot 
and bothered. I would sympathize a lot more 
with the complaintants in the issues presented 
in Zurk (et al) had been published in the 
Features or Opinion section of the Tartan 
As they appeared on the comics page, they are 
satire, and further noting that college humor is 
notoriously sick. I think that people are perhaps 
overreacting. Bear in mind, we live in a society 
w here one week after Challenger had explod
ed. Shuttle jokes were already common. These ^ 
kinds of jokes are inherently sick, but I would 
hardly say they are malicious. They are just 1 
there, people being what they are.
Well. I'm probably in a lot of trouble nowBut what the hell, it's inv opinion, and everyone 
is entitled to one. B\ the wav. "Feed Jane Fon
da to the W hales."
William J. Warkaiiy 
Senior E(^- 
(and fair <ranM)
Grad student responds to Bidinitto Lecture

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
Comics
Gallery
Classifieds
Events
Keaton and Howard Gung Ho once again
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Entertainment Editor
HOLLYWOODIt is hard to put things into 
proper perspective in a town like Hollywood. 
The thousands of movies that come out of here 
are escapism at its finest. The whole place 
seems to take on a fantasy land atmosphere. 
One wonders, what are a couple of down-toearth guys like Ron Howard and Michael 
Keaton doing in a place like this?
It was only four years ago that Keaton and 
Howard teamed up in the comedy hit Night 
Shift. It was a very risky project from the start.
Motors to re-open the plant. Once the Japanese 
take over, the clash between east and west 
becomes the main theme of the movie. The 
whole movie is about people on both sides mak
ing mistakes, comments Howard, and then 
having to live with them.
Keaton seemed the perfect choice to play 
Hunt. His spontaneous and humorous nature 
fit perfectly into the characters multi-faceted 
personality. Keaton comments, It was not 
much work for me to discover the character, 
but a lot of work to play the character... he 
had a lot of levels to play... he is all things to
likeable and above all, natural. Off the screen, 
Keaton is no different. His personality shifts 
gears often. One moment his is answering a 
question in a very deep and serious manner, 
and then the next he is warning the owner of 
a tape recorder on the table that he is taping 
over Huey Lewis. At one point in the press con
ference, he interrupted an answer by Howard 
so he could point out Dodger Stadium onthe 
horizon (see photo below). Sometimes childlike 
and obnoxious, Keaton has an authentic quali
ty about him that is sincere as well as funny.
In sharp contrast to Keatons wise-cracking
and you trust a man with common sense.
In Gung Ho, Howard again found himself fac
ed with two distinct sets of actors, and again 
he rose to the occasion. On one hand he had 
Keaton and George Wendt (of Cheers fame) 
who improvised a lot, and on the other hand 
there was the strictly disiplined style of the 
Japanese actors. I had to be little extra en
couraging, says Howard, Gedde Wantanabe 
(Long Duck Dong in 16 Candles) and Sab 
Shimono [who play the Assan Motors ex
ecutives] were both Japanes-Amerieans and had 
very little trouble getting used to the flow of
things, while Soh Yamamura [who plays Assan 
Motors President Sakamoto] was from Japan 
and he was a little off balance,  coments 
Howard, but he quickly caught on and began 
to make suggestions and jokes, too.
Howards ability to work well with many dif
ferent types of actors is one of the main reasons 
for his success.
By letting the actors give input and sugges
tions, Howard obtains a better sense of the 
character and how he/she relates to the story. 
Also in the Horizon article, Howard says he has 
three strengths as a director: One, I love col
laborating with people, motivating people, and 
coordinating their ideas with mine. Two, I get 
along very well with actors, and their input gets 
me going. Three, I think I have a good sense 
of storytelling, making sure people arent con
fused and knowing what to tell when.
Keaton sums up the experience of working 
with Howard: When I did Night Shift, Ron 
gave a lot of room to improve and be spon
taneous. Also he allowed me to ask questions 
and make; suggestions. Since to was his first 
shot-for-studio feature it was kind of risky on 
his part, but it was paying off. So what happen
ed there was that he started to trust me. Now 
what is great is that he won't let you go nuts 
for no reason... so what it comes down to is a 
lot of trust.
While the rest of the world holds its breath 
later this month as Hollywood gives out its anual 
awards, the Oscars, Keaton and Howard will 
probably be at home drinking a beer and 
wondering what good story is coming up next.
A film about a morgue turned whorehouse is 
not exactly a safe bet. Combined with the fact 
that this film marked the first time for Howard 
as a motion picture director and the first film 
role for Keaton, this could have been a studio's 
worst nightmare. Instead, Keaton and Howard 
surprised everyone with a charming, inventive, 
and highly polished product.
After Night Shift, Keaton and Howard went 
in separate directions. Keaton went on to costar with Terri Garr in Mr. Mom. And followed 
with the ganster spoof Johnny Dangerously the 
year after. Later this summer, the comedydrama Touch and Go will be released, in which 
he co-stars with Maria Conchita Alonso. 
Howards projects included the delightful com
edy Splash, which featured Tom Hanks and 
John Candy. And more recently, Cocoon, last 
summers runaway success that starred an 
ensemble of veteran actors including Don 
Ameche, Gwen Verdon, and Maureen 
Stapleton. Howard and Keaton have teamed up 
once again in Paramount Pictures' Gung Ho 
(opening March 14 nationwide).
Based on an idea by Edwin Blum, screen
writers Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel 
(writers of Splash and Night Shift) have put 
together a very timely and unusual script. Gung 
Ho (slang for work together) tells the story of 
a small town in Pennsylvania, Hadleyville (the 
actual filming took place right here in Pitts
burgh). For over 35 years the towns main in
dustry has been the local auto factory, but now 
it is shut down. The towns last hope rests on 
the shoulders of one man, Hunt Stevenson 
(Keaton). He travels to Japan to convince Assan
all people. He continues, He fell right in bet
ween Billy Blaze (Night Shift) and Mr. Mom, 
and somewhere in there was me. Howard 
testifies that Hunt is what Keaton might have 
turned out to be if he (Keaton) had not gone 
into acting.
Not only did Keatons personality influence 
the character, but also the fact that the movie 
was filmed in Keatons hometown helped his 
portrayal. It was perfect for my
character... he is a local hero and the atten
tion that I got going back (to Pittsburgh) I just 
applied to the character. There wasnt a move 
I made that wasnt right for the character. ex
plains Keaton.
It is this personal touch that has become 
Keatons trademark. Whatever the part, he tries 
to bring in a little bit of himself into the 
character. With a good bit of improvisation on 
the set, Keaton obtains a genuine and spon
taneous feeling that makes his characters
flamboyance, Howard exudes a likeable boynext-door" quality. He looks like and is a nice guy. 
Howard is, of course, famous for the the whole
some years he spent on the TV screen portray
ing Opie Taylor on the Andy Griffith Show 
and Richie Cunningham on Happy Days. But 
Howard is a serious director now so it really 
doesnt matter who we associate him with.
On Cocoon, a project that he was hired onto, 
Howard found himself in a very precarious posi
tion. The picture had two very Jistict groups of 
actorsthe screen veterans and the younger, 
less experienced group. What seemed to be a 
directors worst fear worked perfectly with 
Howard. In an article in Horizon, Jessica Tan
dy (one of the elder Cocoon stars) states, We 
all got on a first name basis. He handled the 
age issue very well. . . hes friendly and helpful. 
Another Cocoon star Maureen Stapleton says of 
experience with Howard, He seems like hes 
been doing it for years. He has common sense.
It was perfect for my character. . .he is a local 
hero and the attention that I got going back (to 
Pittsburgh) I just applied to the character. There 
wasnt a move I made that wasnt right for the 
character.
Keaton
Right there next to that budding, see it?Ron Howard on location in Pittsburgh

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanMarch 4, 1986
The Hitcher: A stylish suspense thriller
By JOE FERRUGIA
Tartan Film/Theatre Critic
My mother told me never to do this... jokes 
Jim Halsey as he picks up a hitchhiker on a 
deserted Texas road. Untortunately for Jim, his 
new passenger isn't joking. The Hitcher takes 
the simple idea of a hitchhiker and turns it into 
a nightmarish tale of suspense. Rutger Hauer 
and C. Thomas Howell star in this stylish and 
thrilling film.
Jim Halsey (Howell) is a young man driving 
a car to San Diego for money. Late at night, 
Jim. alone and falling behind the wheel, decides 
to pick up a hitchhiker (Hauer) to help him stay 
awake. What he doesn't realize is that this hit
cher is a maniacal mass murderer. Soon Jim 
is caught in a dangerous cat and mouse game 
ingeniously created by the killler. The hitcher 
appears out of nowhere and leaves a trail of 
dead bodies in his path. Even worse for Jim, 
he is being framed for all the hitchers murders. 
Hauer is absolutely captivating as The Hitcher 
and Howell is a portrait of terror.
Jim is now involved in a deadly game with 
a psychotic and all too clever killer. There is 
a purpose to the mysterious killer, but that is 
for Jim and the audience to determine. When
Jim asks the killer, John Ryder, what he wants 
of him, Ryder resplies I want you to stop me. 
Unfortunately for him, that isn't going to be 
easy. Ryder seems to always be one step ahead 
of the law.
Jim soon learns that he is not safe anywhere. 
Stumbling into a roadside diner just as it opens, 
Jim learns in a shocking and memorable scene 
that Ryder has already been there. Ryder has 
also managed to plant items in Jims clothes that 
frame him for several killings. Taken into 
custody, Jim soon discovers that even a locked 
jail cell and police protesction arent enough to 
stop the hitchers deadly game. Jim has 
nowhere to hide, he can only run. Fortunately 
for Jim he is befriended by a girl named Nash 
who works at the diner. With her help, Jim nar
rowly escapes a vengeful police officer. Brilliant
ly played by Jennifer Jason Leigh, Nash is 
Jims link to sanity and to a calmer reality. Leigh 
is a warm addition to this chilling film. But, like 
Jim, she too must become a part of the hitchers 
game.
This is one of the most suspenseful movies 
I have seen in a long time. It spared the au
dience the needless bloodshed and graphic 
violence that characterizes lesser-quality movies
Rutger Hauer and C. Thomas Howell star in The Hitcher
of this type. That is what sets The Hitcher above 
the rest of the pack. The Hitcher relies on 
suspense and the reactions of the actors to keep 
the audience on the edge of its seats. A typical 
scene is when Jim first discovers evidence of 
Ryders work. A seemingly empty station-wagon 
on the edge of a highway. When last seen it was
The Marines College of Music150 WEST 85TH STREET, NEW YORK, N.Y. 10024  212-580-0210
AUDITION DATES:
January 1986 (by arrangement)March 5, 6. 7. 8.1986 May 21.22.23. 1986September 1986 dates to be announced
Major Fields of Study
Scholarships are available.
M.M., Post-Graduate Diploma, B.M., B.S., Diploma
Ensembles in Residence
The GoHnw String Quartet 
The Mannes Trio
PIANO
Edward AkJweS 
Arkody Aronov 
David Bar-Wan 
Claude Rank 
Richard Goode 
Jeannette Haien 
Eugenia Hyman 
Lilian KaUir 
Leon Pommers 
Marie Powers 
Josef Raieff 
Peter Serkin 
Nina Svettanova 
Diane Walsh
HARPSICHORD 
Kenneth Cooper 
Eugenia Earle
ORGAN and CHURCH MUSIC 
Ford laderstedt 
McNeil Robinson 
William Whitehead
STRINGED INSTRUMENTS 
Nina BeHina, Violin 
Raphael Bronstein,
Violin and Viola 
Isidore Cohen, Violin 
Felix Galimir Violin 
Shirley Givens, Violin 
Ant Kavafian, Violin 
Dora Schwarzberg, Violin 
Sally Thomas, Violin 
Hiroko Yajima, Violin 
Paul Doktor, Viola and Violin 
John Graham, Viola 
Sol Greitzer, Viola 
Kim Kashkashtan, Viola 
Karen Tuttle, Viola 
Timothy Eddy, Violoncello 
Gary Hoffman, Violoncello 
Paul Tobias, Violoncello 
Julius Lewie, Double Baa 
Homer Mensch, Double Boss
HARP
Gloria Agostini 
LucUe Lawrence
TYMPANI and PERCUSSION 
Norman Grossman 
Howard Van Hyning 
Chris Lamb 
Walter Rosenberger
WOODWIND and BRASS
Andrew Lolya, Flute 
Thomas Nyfenger, Flute 
John Wion, Flute 
Elaine Douvas, Oboe 
Albert Goltzer, Oboe 
Mark Hill, Oboe 
Ronald Roseman, Oboe 
Gervase de Peyer, Clarinet 
Peter Simenauer, Clarinet 
Burt Bid, Bassoon and 
Contrabassoon 
Harold Goltzer, Bassoon 
Judith LeClair, Bassoon 
AHen Won, Saxophone 
Myron Bloom, French Horn 
Antonio lervolino, French Horn 
Ranter Delntinis, French Horn 
Philip Myers, French Horn 
Mel Broiles, Trumpet 
Vincent PenzereHa, Trumpet 
James Smith, Trumpet 
John Ware, Trumpet 
Joe Alessi, Trombone 
Per Brevig, Trombone 
Gilbert Cohen, Trombone and 
Bass Trombone 
Donald Harwood, Bass Trombone 
Warren Deck, Tuba
CLASSICAL GUITAR
Eliot Fisk 
Frederic Hand 
Sharon Isbin 
Herbert Levine 
Michael Newman
ORCHESTRA and ORCHESTRAL CONDUCTING 
Yakov Kreizberg
CHORUS and CHORAL CONDUCTING 
Amy Kaiser, Music Director
VOICE
Charles Bressler 
Thomas Cultice 
Peter Elk us 
Ellen Fault 
Antonia Lavanne 
Dan Marek 
Marian Thompson 
Theodor Uppman
DICTION
Nico Castei, French. German.
and Italian 
Dorothy Uris, English
VOCALCHAMBER MUSIC 
Fredric Popper
ACTING and STAGECRAFT 
Wesley Balk 
Nina David 
Louis Peterson
OPERA COACHING
Marshall Williamson
SONGINTERPRETATION 
Antonia Lavanne
HISTORICAL PERFORMANCE 
Valerie Horst,
Program Coordinator 
Julianne Baird, Voice 
Charles Bressler, Voice 
Marcy Lindheimer, Voice 
Kenneth Cooper, Harpsichord 
Lionel Party, Harpsichord 
Patrick O'Brien, Lute 
Nancy Wilson, Baroque Violin.
Baroque Chamber Ensemble 
Myron Lutzke, Baroque Cello 
Michael Willens, Violone 
Judith Davidoff,
Viola da Gamba 
Lawrence Dreyfus,
Viola da Gamba 
Richard Taruskin,
Viola da Gamba 
Dennis Godburn, Recorder.
Baroque Bassoon. Duician 
Stephen Hammer, Recorder. 
Baroque Oboe.
Baroque Chamber Ensemble 
Philip Levin, Recorder,
Baroque Bassoon,
Baroque Chamber Ensemble 
Sandra Miller, Baroque Flute.
Baroque Chamber Ensemble 
Steven Siiverstein, Cornetto 
Benjamin Peck, Sackbut.
Mannes Renaissance Band 
Benjamin Harms, Percussion 
Paul C. Echols, Director.
Mannes Camerata
CHAMBER MUSIC and ENSEMBLE 
Per Brevig 
Gilbert Cohen 
Paul Doktor 
Timothy Eddy 
Felix Galimir 
John Graham 
Howard Van Hyning 
Julius Levine 
Marie Powers 
Peter Simenauer 
Diane Walsh 
Hiroko Yajima
CONTEMPORARYENSEMBLE
Madeleine Shapiro
SECONDARY PIANO
Emiiie Harris 
Miriam Kartch
COMPOSITION
Charles Jones 
David Loeb 
Peter Pindar Stearns 
David Tcimpidis 
Frederick WeriS
TECHNIQUES OF MUSIC
Elizabeth Aaron 
Edward Aldwell 
Terry Champlin 
Robert Cuckson 
Douglas Diamond 
Leo Edwards 
David Gagne 
Charles Jones 
Ford Lallerstedt 
Larry Laskowski 
David Loeb 
Mei-MeiMeng 
William Needelman 
Frank Nemhauser 
Marie Powers 
Felix Salzer 
Carl Schachter 
Eric Wen 
Frederick Wert
PEDAGOGY
Emiiie Harris 
Marie Powers 
Carl Schachter
ACADEMIC STUDIES 
Lotte P. Egers, Ph.D., German 
Thomas E. Goldstein, Ph.D., Western 
Civilization 
Andrew E. Green, M.M., History of 
Music
L. Michael Griffel, Ph.D., Graduate 
Studies. Literature of Music 
Charles Kaufman, Ph.D., History of 
Music
Elinor Richter, PhD., Art History 
Martin Smith, MA, English 
Composition. Literature 
Carol Rosen Xing, M A. English 
for Foreign Students
This is a complete listing of the faculty
NEW PROGRAMS:
M.M. in CompositionM.M. in Theory  M.M. in Historical Performance
FOR INFORMATION: Write or call Ms. Rena Springer, Director of Admissions 
The Mannes College of Music  150 West 85th Street, New York, N.Y. 10024212-580-0210
occupied by an unsuspecting family giving a 
ride to the hitcher. All that is required to show 
the familys fate is Jims reaction as he looks 
into the car while some blood drips onto his foot. 
The imagination is far more terrifying than any 
Hollywood special effects. This is why The Hit
cher is better than the average slasher movie. 
It allows the audience to fill in the gaps with 
its own imagination.
The Hitcher also has the benefit of two 
outstanding performances. The first is by Dutch 
actor Rutger Hauer (Blade Runner, Ladyhawke). 
Hauer is perfect as John Ryder, the title 
character. His performance is restrained and 
he gives Ryder a sense of profound and troubl
ed evil. Hauer plays Ryder with a sense of am
biguity. You are never quite sure why Ryder 
is playing his frightful game with Jim but you 
always feel that there is a purpose to his actions. 
This makes Hauers characters even more ter
rifying and effective. Another good performance 
is given by C. Thomas Howell (Secret Admirer, 
The Outsiders) as Jim. Howells character is 
taken from his own routine world and thrown 
into a hellish nightmare. Jim obviously has no 
idea why his life is in danger; he has no idea 
why Ryder is framing him. Jim is an innocent 
forced to mature very quickly if he is to sur
vive. He is forced to play in a very real game 
of cat and mouse where winning is imperative 
because losing is fatal. Howell plays Jim with 
the necessary credibility to make the audience 
cheer him on. He is very believable as the con
fused and frightened victim of the hitcher who 
must come to terms with his own conscience 
before he can end the hitchers sadistic game.
Robert Harmons direction is superb. Surpris
ingly, this is Harmons first attempt at directing 
a full-length feature film. In that case, Harmon 
is well on his way to becoming one of the most 
sought after directors in Hollywood. The Hit
cher is masterful suspense. You never quite 
know what is going to strike, but just when, and 
how, keeps you on the edge of your seat. The 
film boasts, The terror begins the moment he 
stops. This is true for both Jim Halsey and the 
audience. The Hitcher is a top-notch thriller.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE3.75
PREGNANT?
And you didn t mean to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.
DEMO STUDIO
Quofcty Recording You Can Afford
JACKIPWM
1052 Franklin Drive 
Bethel Park, PA 15102 
(412) 835-6398

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 15
Funnyman Carlin infine9 but not top form last week
By AMANDA COHEN
Tartan Comedy Critic
George Carlin, the comedian of the ages, 
came to Pittsburgh to share his latest ideas and 
observations about life. His show on Friday at 
the Syria Mosque attracted a fairly wide crosssection of his audience, but the majority of the 
fans present were college students and 
respectable-looking people in their early forties 
who were probably first attracted to Carlin at 
his stand-up peak in the Seventies. The latter 
group was probably the most disappointed, 
because Carlin hardly touched any of his classic 
material.
The change in material is not common to all 
seasoned comedians of Carlins status. Rodney 
Dangerfield has been known to perform straight 
through an album in a concert. But not to worry; 
Carlins new material still reflects the prism 
through which he views the world. He still has 
the same stage mannerisms and basic perfor
mance techniques of generally staying put un
til he mentions some physical joke, which brings 
about some purely Carlinesque (with just a hint 
of Danny Kaye-ish) convulsions. He still uses
the same voices in dialogues with himself, which 
are actually more prevalent as he leans more 
and more sketchward in his work.
Carlin is also still using subliminal themes as 
a means of poking jibes without naming names. 
It s his way of staying relatively topical without 
having to be as straightforward as Johnny Car
son. For example, he said that just like other 
people who are rich and famous with a lot of 
time on their hands, he was working for charities 
like The Salvation Navy and Battered 
Plants. He didnt have to come right out and 
ask us to laugh at celebrities who donate so 
much work to certain charities for which have 
been in the news recently. And when he talked 
about needing more bloodshed in sports and 
suggested more competitive games like fiveman boxing with crowbars, he was actually 
lampooning the typical American attitude 
towards violence in sports.
His general style is still concept comedy, 
where he takes a single concept, like the big 
pile in heaven where all the lost things go, and 
expands it to touch every possible aspect of the 
concept. Only now he seems to be doing it with
By FERRUGIA and McHUGH
Tartan DH2210 Reviewers 
Thursday
Utamaro and his 5 Women
Who, and his five what? Quite frankly, weve 
never heard of this one. So, in interest of com
plete disclosure we cant give it a movie grade. 
If the title interests you, then by all means go 
and see it. If this title was being offered on 
a Saturday night, wed be inclined to think that 
it was a TBA.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE NO GRADE
Deborah Kerr and Frank Sinatra all give first 
rate performances (Sinatra received an Oscar). 
The film also won Oscars for best picture and 
director. This is one of Hollywoods all time film 
classics. When released, the scene with Lan
caster and Kerr on the beach was actually con
sidered provocative.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 4.00
Saturday
Pale Rider
Friday
From Here to Eternity
Forget the short-lived television series. This is 
the original blockbuster based on James Jones' 
bestseller. Outstanding performances by all 
characterize this film set in Hawaii during W orld 
War II. Burt Lancaster, Montgomery Clift,
Out of the distance, the mysterious stranger 
rides into town to save the day. Who could it 
be other than Eastwood? Following his two other 
mysterious stranger films, Eastwood is back 
in the saddle again fighting injustice in the old 
west. Unlike his other films, Pale Rider plays 
up the mystical aspect of his character more 
than ever. The new mysterious gunslinger wears 
a clerical collar and can quote from The Good 
Book. A ruthless lawman arrives in town con
vinced he has killed this man before. In any 
case, Eastwood is at his usual best.
TARTAN MOVIE GRADE 3.75
At Forbes Gallery
By KATE BONELLO
Special to The Tartan
Pat Barefoot, Gregory Liberi and Michael 
Pesselato will be showing paintings, drawings 
and prints at the Forbes Gallery through Sun
day, March 10. The show opens tonight at 7 
pm.
The exhibit will be a contrast of style and sub
ject, displaying the work of three very different 
artists. Gregory Liberi says that his paintings 
and drawings are all different from each other, 
as well. He explores the ramifications of order 
ar>d disorder and the interaction of opposites. 
Pat Barefoot, on the other hand, concentrates 
n more figurative images.
Michael Pesselato is showing woodcuts, paintlngs and drawings. His paintings use bright, 
lr>tense colors and contrasting shapes to con
struct an illusory, mental space. A viewer
shouldnt feel part of the space, he says, 
preferring that it remain a place for only the 
mind to wander. His woodcuts, which use the 
same bright, strong colors as his paintings, are 
influenced by Russian icons. He says that do
ing woodcuts taught me a lot about painting, 
using the edges and breaking the edges. He 
also appreciates that icons are reproduced over 
and over again, like a print.
Exhibit spaces such as the Forbes Gallery are 
accustomed to variety, if only because the work 
changes every week. The work of Pat Barefoot, 
Gregory Liberi, and Michael Pesselato provides 
a range of visual challenge in one show. You 
can see it at the Forbes Gallery, 5200 Forbes 
Avenue, Wednesday through Friday 10 am to 
7 pm and Saturday and Sunday from 12 pm 
to 5 pm.
a little less continuity. The show on Friday sug
gested that Carlin is now leaning more upon his 
lists of ideals on a theme, which have 
not been developed into any sort of story or 
his usual commentary. These lists are increas
ingly choppy, but they are original, funny, and 
new; so new, in fact, that Carlin had occasion 
to use a cheat-sheet. He also tended to avoid 
some really classic routines, although they 
would have fit well into his themes. He only 
spoke on about three major themes through the 
show, but continuity was a bit rough between 
the themes, as in Thats all I have to say about 
being lost. There was never an absence of 
laughter in the wide Mosque concert hall, but 
not as much of the hysteria that Ive known 
Carlin to instigate.
George Carlins special guests were Travis 
and Shuck, a couple of fellows from Cape Cod,
Massachusetts who played guitars beautifully.
Their opening songs were rather straight, and 
the crowd seemed to be losing interest until they 
announced that they had once belonged to the 
British punk rock band, the Scumsucking NaziBombers from Hell. Then they got weird, and
In Concert
Percussion Group of Cincinnati
consequently funny. The best taste of their style 
can be exemplified in their medley: alternating 
James Brown riffs and chamber music, follow
ed by Lets go to the Museum (the original 
form of Lets go to the Hop), rounded out 
by the Indian version of Yes, Sir, Thats my 
Baby. You figure it out.
Carlins finale, as is almost expected of him, 
was the current List of things no one can say 
on TV. It has been expanded now, and Carlin 
was proud to say that it had passed the 400 
mark. He has categorized them, and he listed 
them off with hardly a catch. Actually, most of 
the new additions are descriptions that would 
never find their way into a television script even 
if every censor in the world jumped off the Sears 
tower. Things like the purple-helmeted war
rior of love and the vertical smile were 
abundant. Considering Carlin as fans have 
known him through the ages, he was in fine but 
not top form on Friday night.
Joan Rivers and her special guests are the next 
comedy event at the Syria Mosque, on April 5th. 
Tickets went on sale on Monday, March 3rd.
The Percussion Group of Cincinnati, who sold 
out their last performance here in the winter of
1984 in the Eddy Theatre, are coming back. 
They will appear in the Campbell Memorial 
Chapel, Chatham College, on Monday, March 
24, 1986, at 8 p.m.
The group, comprised of Alan Otte, James 
Culley, and Jack Brennan, is the ensemble in 
residence at the College-Conservatory of Music 
at the University of Cincinnati, and specialize 
in a variety of percussion instruments. In this
concert they will perform The Book of Imaginary 
Beings by Mark Sava, and works by Mr. Otte 
and others.
The group has recorded an extraordinary 
three-volume set on Opus One Records, which 
will be available for sale at the concert.
A FOOD FIGHT at Clemson U. resulted in 
the arrest of 18 students. The cost of the food 
fight to the school was $1.141.51: 85 hour* 
of cleaning, managers hours, and replacement 
of broken dinnerware.
THE ORIGINAL FRANKENSTEIN
6/8/10 DH2210 
MONDAY, MARCH 10 
ADMISSION: $1.00
YOUNG FRANKENSTEIN
6/8/10 DH2210 
MONDAY, MARCH 17 
ADMISSION: $1.00
SPONSORED BY STUDENT ACTIVITIES AND CMU LIBRARIES

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanMarch 4, 1986
By STEFAN BROWN
Special to The Tartan
Last weekends series of concerts by the Pitts
burgh Symphony Orchestra brought home the 
current controversy of soloist as conductor. The 
baroque practice of concertmaster as conduc
tor is well known. But is it appropriate to carry 
over this practice with todays larger forces? In 
this country we have the successful example of 
Pinchas Zuckerman and the St. Paul Chamber 
Orchestra. Unfortunately, this weekends con
certs with Jean-Pierre Rampal do not live up 
to these standards. ,
Rampal conducted a concert of four lighter 
works. The opener, the overture to Rossinis 
opera The Silken Ladder is a brief and char
ming piece that has a few dramatic moments. 
These were achieved through restrained con
ducting that characterized the entired concert. 
Rampal used small arcs of his baton and con
strained but effective jestures of his left hand 
to achieve changes in tempo, dynamics, and at
tacks. The most effective portion of this piece 
was the brief development where the interplay 
between strings and winds achieved a successful 
balance of tone. The more buffo elements 
were less successful as the playing lacked the 
comic spontaneity necessary for this type of 
work. The piece was technically well perform
ed with just a few weak notes in the upper 
register of the violins at the beginnings of a 
number of descending passages.
The first of two pieces in which Rampal both 
soloed and conducted was an arrangement of 
a Bach harpsichord concerto (BWV 1055). In 
this (and the following) concerto his total con
cern seemed to be with the solo part even dur
ing an orchestral tutti. This piece lacked the 
necessary tight control over execution that the 
ornate baroque requires. Otherwise it will sound 
muddled and undirectional. This happened at 
Fridays performance especially in the second
movement. In this larghetto the accompaniment 
is minimal so the execution is all the more im
portant. But the orchestra seemed bored and 
satisfied with the phrases that began and end
ed somewhere near the middle. Clear attack was 
missing giving and undirected performance. 
The lack of attack also plagued the last move
ment. Rampals conducting was next to nonextional. The orchestra would have benefited by 
following her example.
Mozarts Concerto No. 1 in G (K. 313) follow
ed quickly on the heels of the Bach giving the 
audience little time to adjust. In this more 
familiar repetoire the orchestra came together 
to achieve the contrasts of dynamics necessary 
in Mozart for balance and clear thematic proistant. Phrases were often muddled with clari
ty only in the middle.
Rampals soloing was also a bit off as if his 
dual role was taxing him beyond his capabilities. 
His solo lines frequently ran out of breath 
at the end. His playing, though, was refined.
Of special note in the Bach was the continuo 
accompaniment of first cellist Anne Martindale 
Williams. Her attacks were clear and direc
gression. The solo line was seamless with only 
a few uneven tones at the bottom of the flutes 
register.
The second movement (larghetto) requires a 
great range of expressionfrom tranquil to 
troubled, from tender to passionatewithout 
seeming extreme of gaudy. The muted strings 
achieved these through variation in attack. Ram
pals approach as soloist was tender throughout
but forceful when needed in the development 
section.
The best performed movement of the piece 
was the last where everything came together. 
The orchestra achieved the necessary balance 
between tutti and accompaniment sections. The 
solo fine was firm and well controlled giving 
variety to the contrasting sections. The or-e* 
namentation was executed without ostentation.
Rampal supplied his own candenzas for all 
three movements. All were in keeping with the 
style of the piece of the concerto was controll
ed and tightly knit although uneven.
The second half of the program consisted of 
a single workBeethovens Symphony No. 2 in 
D, Opus 36. While it is not a long or overwhelm
ing work it was the perfect compliment to the 
overture and concertos. Conducted from 
memory it was the best performance of the 
evening. Phrasing, dynamics, and balance were^ 
constant across the entire work. Beethovens * 
characteristic echoing between winds and 
strings was achieved and pleasant to hear. There 
were a few minor glitches; most notable were 
the blaring horns right before the recapitulation.
The larghetto that followed was the highlight 
of the performance. This long movement con
tains an incredible series of emotions and easi
ly sounds hackneyed if not lavished with atten
tion. Rampal devoted all his capacity into 
leading the orchestra through their complicated 
emotional and thematic relationships. The violin, 
achieved the lyricism that they lacked in the 
previous half of the concert. The constrained 
conducting evoked the necessary emotions from 
the orchestra without them becoming extreme 
or vulgar. The lyricism of the cellos in the last 
movement deserves special mention.
Overall, the most successful performances 
were those in which Rampal did not solo and 
conduct. It is tempting to suggest that he con
tinue to do both but not at the same time.
AB Lectures
presents
AN EVENING WITH
Rampai bites off more than he can chew
RICH HALL
TONIGHT
Tuesday March 4 8:00 p.m. 
Skibo Ballroom
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 17
Photographic Exhibit on display
by WALTER G. RICHIE
Tartan Art Critic
The Carnegie Mellon Art Gallery is currently 
displaying the work of German photographers 
Hilla and Bernard Becher. Their display consists 
of black and white photographs of industrial 
structures located in various regions of Penn
sylvania and the Mid-West.
The Bechers began their work in 1957 with 
a photo-graphic study of workers houses in the 
German area of Westphalia. They eventually ex
panded into a documentation of industrial areas 
in France, England, Scotland, Ireland, and most 
recently, the United States. The couple con
siders the Pittsburgh region to be crucial to their 
studies.
The images within the photographs are 
presented with extreme clarity and high resolu
tion. The buildings look immaculate; dirt and 
grime typical of factories have been erased.
Many industrial structures like these have 
been abandoned over the course of time, 
resulting in their decay and dilapidation. But 
in the Bechers photographs, these structures 
possess an aura of dignity and pride.
Mine Head is a photographic collection focus
ing on three views of a steel and concrete en
trance to a Pennsylvania coal mine. The 
monumental structure of horizontal and vertical 
beams leads you into the mine like a grand procenium arch opening onto a deep stage.
Coal Tipples is a presentation of ramshackle 
wooden structures built over small, familyoperated mines. These dilapidated wooden 
frames appeal to our sense of adventure. Like 
the old, abandoned house on the hill, these 
mysterious structures compell us to explore and
investigate.
In Grain Elevators (Milwaukee, Chicago, 
Toledo), the true architecture of the industrial 
structure is seen through the purely functional 
arrangement of simple geometric volumes and 
forms. The cylindrical silos, cubanical|b 
warehouses, and lean-to, gable, and ganbrel 
roofs resist synthesis into a coherent whole. 
Each form maintains its own identity, express
ing a seperate function.
American industrial structures and factories 
like these served as a major influence for the 
architects of the Bauhaus Movement (the 
precursor of todays glass and steel boxes) 
established in Germany in the 1920s. Form 
follows function was the highly sought-after 
ideal, and this ideal can clearly be seen in the 
utilitarian nature of the American factory.
The showing ends Saturday.
Jazz great Joe 
Williams at Harpers
This week at 
the Symphony
rvOye S 
rvOye c 
rvOye s
,eIODavn .S-Oi-D D,D1), s:00 
gOiavn .S-Oi-D A,A1), s:30 
SvtIOavn .S-Oi-D C,C2), s:00 
Rlb-Ot Sevw, ClCaIytlO 
SIDvC DICC, SlpOvCl 
ovCiy,vn8lO, r-zzl-DlpOvCl 
S-te ryCln, ,-ClO 
oleC Ce--k, BvDD 
r-Ca-8DDleC CeliO lf FittDbIOge 
Rlb-Ot Fvg-, DiO-ytlO
V-Oair-DDv av O-qIi-tqi-t
Blatent Image Gallery
PITTSBURGH: Matt Bulvonys The End of 
the Road Show, an exhibit of color 
photographs, takes place at Blatent Image 
Gallery/Silver Eye Photographic Workshop 
March 5 through March 29, with an opening 
reception Saturday, March 8, from 7:00 to 9:00 
p.m. The gallery is located at 1015 East Car
son Street, South Side, and is open Wednes
day through Saturday, 12:00 to 5:00 p.m. 
Bulvony will lead an open forum at the gallery 
on Thursday, March 13, at 8:00 p.m., at which 
he will introduce and discuss the themes and 
techniques he employs in his work.
Stylistically, Bulvony exacts control of color 
saturation and tone for emotional impact, and 
repetition of color and shape for emphasis, 
always probing the emotional quality of light.
Bulvony says he chooses subject matter in
tuitively, for social relevance and aesthetic im
pact. Some of the social cor\perns the work 
reflects upon are the passing of the heavy in
dustrial economic base; the American love af
fair with the automobile and the open highway; 
the environment; military service and national 
self-esteem; the family and the life cycle of 
generations.
Bulvony makes his living in Pittsburgh, where 
he has lived since 1980, as a corporate and in
dustrial photographer. He was born in Warren, 
Ohio, a factory town northwest of Youngstown. 
The End of the Road Show is an ongoing 
chronicle for Bulvony; this exhibit is its first 
chapter. He sums up his approach to 
photographing as a game of skill where one 
attempts to play off the most uncontrollable of 
mediums against ones subconscious spirit, and 
find a plane where they meet.
PITTSBURGH: Harpers Restaurant, in the 
One Oxford Centre Building, downtown Pittsiurgh will be featuring the internationally famous 
azz and Blues singer Joe Williams for a sue 
night stand beginning Tuesday, March 4th 
through Sunday, March 9th.
The legendary Jazz and Blues vocalist is cur
rently in the midst of some of the most exciting 
months of his career. In addition to his con
tinuous club and concert appearances, Williams 
has a new album just released, he is the sub
ject of a book, and has a non-singing spot on 
The Bill Cosby Show. And to top this, after 
winning the coveted Grammy Award as the Best 
Jazz Singer of 1985, his popularity has doubled.
Williams who is remembered as the Count 
Basie vocalist, whose rendition of Everyday I 
Have the Blues sold over a million copies, now 
has his first biography entided, Everyday. His 
voice has been heard on records and concert 
stages throughout the world, not to mention on 
motion picture soundtracks (Burt Reynolds 
Sharkys Machine, Clint Eastwoods City 
Heat, plus numerous television shows).
Williams who has always been one of Pitts
burghs favorite singers and performers, was 
a sell out at his last appearance at Harpers. 
As this months Billboard magazine stated, 
Vocalist Joe Williams remains an example of 
refinement, class and musical tastea guide for 
any Jazz, Pop or Blues singer.
Williams has two shows per night: Tuesday 
through Thursday shows are 8:30 p.m. anc 
10:30 p.m.; Friday and Saturday, 9:00 p.m. 
and 11:30 p.m. Sunday shows are 6:30 p.m. 
and 8:30 p.m.
Reservation can be made by stopping at 
Harpers, Pittsburgh, PA, One Oxford Centre or 
by calling (412)391-1494. All major credit cards 
accepted.
The CMU Law Club
will present
Robert Beckwith, Law clerk for the 
Honorable Judge Brosky, 
Pennsylvania Superior Court Judge
Wednesday night, March 5th 
at 7:00 in Skibo room 45
Everyone is welcome and urged to at
tend. For more information, call 
Georgex4386.
Funded by your Student Senate.
Music
SALE...
CASSETTES and RECORDS.
MAJOR LABELS 
TOP ARTISTS
AFFORDABLE PRICES 
Something for Everyone
Pop, Rock, Folk, 
Jazz and Classics
On Sale for Limited Time 
Shop Early for Best Selection
SALE RUNS FROM 
MARCH 4 TO 14
emu bcckstcre
IN BAKER HALL

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Zurkby Nabil Liumang
EVERY ,Ir,HIS ,8rf 6g YEAR 
,HE 5ArE ,H/AoG HAFFENS 68 r 
ALL rY LEW?K1CD IDE6L6GY AND 
LIBERA,ED gUNDArEN,AL'S &lIF 
IN A FUfV 6g 5rlKE
WELLr6, ,HIS YEAR
i 7-FOD68 C-6 ole
DgCCe gEELINGS IN,ERfERE
wite fAY LIBERALVIEWS 
/
 CCCA o
COMe GiVC Your 
sweet oohpun<* a smack You cure ume 
PATUSHKA:
Ke
EH'W's ifclce.'.
'The ned. W (tj 
of haVe bccv^i mtcrpr
by Nabv.1 us.
-TS
BACK AT THE HoMEf of Z^RK.
atonDEAR, X THINK THAT 
BoY or OURS (5 A T7NY 
15 rr uAcrf. J
C* DonTT worRT , I'rA SUREHe 15 ON vAiS VJKY O
UDSmea lprri opS 
CUTif, SIC Ht-&AW(tu 
rAK^ CARf of yd.
JL
The Top Floor
/IT gaoffrjr suKtise fugrr-jby M
Poindexterby Don Beyer
HOW tMI> N/OU l>0 C*J
yooR MIDTERMS? ------------1/-------------
[Vow /Dior/.' -rwose 
)X\0 SBcnoKSi
THAT FXPt-A^ TWF
.4- QF& /
Doak Stryker and the Alamo Threeby Brownmeister 
and Browneye
Public Enemy Number Oneby Adam Rosenberg 
______________and James Kurien
r&fMxTie BaBrb~7&A^ ,Ay<? QiAV.AUi^
Nollem Eigenrac
Inkspots
by Kurt Shaw
Harry, are you awake? I think I hear a burglar/
Comics in the News

---------------------------------------------------

by Mike McHughBLOOM COUNTYStudent Dormitory Council
HELLO MRS. WHACKER. I'M YOUR
P\usOK* STeve T\PP\tn TPO\tO excuse as \TTO\K\SfOnnn wia
SUFFERING FROM AN MSO/At 
HMbO\liR...HEAPAME.
NOW THEN...P0N7 YOU WORRY,
Se eSO really Beueves 
ser \sPOCarKTOKOT serK
HUS MNP. LEAVE MATTERS
ge m \ST vii ber ser
OUT OF THIS 0655.
Se TKeMPOan
NOW. ARE YOU 
etftOTIOMLLY
prbparjep ro oo over we 
bOg\wPt \l\wS r
Imr me ser \PPMeOTPs
vom firmgBa grKSwSl 
eo gUO \PPOlOT fUarf wSge
CRIME 7 CHOPPEVtMR!I mmtTY-' R WHACK !
r TVUViK x U5et> TUST$ "&VT TOO VAVAO\ VJrv^D.
FOR TeN YEARS, CHARLIE HA? KIN 
HAN0IN6 HIS P/RTY SOCKS ON THE 
HAU. BANISTER, SFITTINE ON MY
lvK\Swrat* \u f\PrSl m
*PUPG-P0T." ANP LATELY HE'P
MOOS oeKlwSe aO ge U\gfU
"'PICK CLARK'S CENSOREP 
BLOOPERS " EVERY PAMNEV3k oKwT\s SwlUgnn
NOW MRS. WHACKER...
YOU KNOW YOU PIPN'T 
MURPER YOUR HUSBANP.I 
YOU'RE JUST UPSET.., NOW YOU 
CONFUSEP... JUSTUSTEN
\ ^ (1 TOME..
NOW I ASK YOU, 
MISTER PALLAS... WHAT 
mULPYOUPO IFYOU 
WERE MARRlEP ro 
SUCH A MAN ?
VOUV TAMAN 
MTO'IfA, 
7WWJJ mr
YOUP VO!
he Digressional 
hoice600P PAY. 
OR RATHER
ooop-eve.
ANP NATURALLY YOUP LIKE YOUR 
CLIENT FREEP WITHOUT mi 
BeCAVSE SHE ISN'T ACTUALLY 
A miCIPAL AIE MURPERER.
^ SHE'S A im, Ir yh VER HONOR.
WELL FIN6,
MR. PALLAS / SHE'S 
RELEASeP INTO YOUR 
CARE UNTIL THE TRIAL
by Seth Eliot 
and Mike McHugh
SPECIFICALLY. 
YOUR HOUSE.
The Tartan*****
ByNAyTN
Jjwsew
Sev\tor6vVv^ews^ 
4,\\oyx*s 
lOe&WrW ^Uou\asAa Vouwx Volulme8l0
UNTIL me 
I'M WPPOSEP TRIAL. LET'S 
TO STAY HERE 00._____
uwgU ser* r \
MR. PALLAS ?
I'M AFRAIP NOT. 
KEEP MOVING.
SUCH A 
NICE PLACE 
ANY LARGE, 
SHARP 
KNIVES 
AROUNP ? <
I OH, CALL IT
ISTHISTHE HOfAE.
BASEMENT' /
uUOSit mr
PINNER? WEEK
and by the way, Western Slobovians suck pigs
NO...REALLY, SAM.. MY CLIENT 75 STAYING HERE AT MY PLACE. 
YEAH .THE TRIAL'S INA FEW 
WEEKS...OONNA BE A CINCH. 
RIGHT... * AXE-MURPER." YEAH.
NO... REALLY... ITU BE 
A FlECE OF CAKE... 
tT'5  UH~ HOLP ITA sec.
LEMME CALL 
YA BACK, SAIA.
SUSTAiNEP. OF COURSE, &1 THE 
OCCASIOm. ANP PRM PlSPLAY 
OF SERIOUS FULL GONZO GOOF INO
yUOKO \Kf gUetO oOwS -
SOMBER IN MAHNER... REFINEP OF 
MINP - WHO FRIPE THEMSELVES IN THE SERIOUSNESS WITH WHICH 
THEY CONPUCT THEIR LIVES...
"PRIVATE* 
is m KEY 
WORP HERE.
by Nabil Liumang

---------------------------------------------------

--------_____________________________
Open Five Days A Week
Scotl&md
Yard
T=>Y/A
SUN I.MOJM ITUS I WEDNESDAY iTHLTRgDAT
- Morie-: 7 
Dr. trance $
Leve.* ^
fipm-tZanl
Sfarti'?4/o
/W>2.* s
4-12.'] $1
cehPdCAC 1$l0
* (Caroti 4
L4-12-]4-/Z1
TRlDAY 
28SATURDAY
[4 'Z*] 
><Y>\ d Competition/ 
kl ffindraisen
Ut Pm - <* f*\jIf 'joo^'ll
[4-ZuJ
 H4Thu
e>*>^yv ^ii 
s 
IS
\zz
MCSUndCLte&D
needs committee members
and designers. Call x4965.
Having a meeting? Birthday.
Call x4965 for our specials.
Coming Soon: A New and Improved Menu

---------------------------------------------------

Gallery
Illustration by Elise Friedland
Attention Artists
We are now accepting submissions of drawings and illustra
tions for our new Gallery page. All submissions should be in 
black and white. If you are interested in having vour work 
printed on the Gallery page, please contact .Mike .McHugh at 
either X2111 or X5994. You could also leave a message on the 
bulletin board outside the Tartan Main Office.

---------------------------------------------------

Fifth Aiken Apartments-* 5405-15 Fifth Ave, Shadyside
Make your next apartment home at the very best 
location in Shadyside. The Fifth Aiken Apartments 
are located at the corner of Fifth Avenue and 
South Aiken Avenue one block from Walnut 
Street and Shadyside shopping. Our newly 
decorated modern efficiency, one bedroom and 
two bedroom apartments have all utilities paid 
(except electric in two bedroom units). Excellent 
security featuring Bell Telephone intercom 
systems. New Maytag washers and dryers are 
located in the building for your convenience.
Private off street parking and garages are 
available. Many apartments have large stone 
balconies. A private screened sun bathing area is 
available. Special fire proof and sound proof 
construction as well as smoke and fire alarms 
add to your safety and convenience. Your 
resident manager lives on the premises. Enjoy 
our great new landscape featuring native trees, 
shrubs and flowers that will brighten your day 
and impress your guests. Public transportation is 
right at the door. Welcome to Shadyside living at 
its best!
Efficiency.............................$319 to $3291-bedroo m.......................... 379 to 4092-bedroo m.............. ........ 449 to 509
Utilities: Efficiency and all one bedrooms included; two bedrooms'with and without electricity.
Rental Terms: One month plus $100 security deposit; one year minimum lease; no children or pets allowed 
Public Transportation: At door; corner of Fifth and Aiken;Fifth Ave. Buses
Directions: Fifth Avenue to Corner of South Aiken.
Rental Agent: Concept Development Corporation 5405 Fifth Ave.Pittsburgh, PA 15232 (412) 441-4444
ATTENTION
CMUIts time for buggy once aaain!Spring free rolls will be held on the following Saturdays & Sundays from 6 am9 am:March 1, 2, 8, 9, 15, 16, 22, 30 April 5, 6, 12, 13As in previous years, they will run through Schenley Park on Tech and Frew Streets. For further information, call Anne Witchner at 268-2107.
SUMMER PROGRAMS OFFERED BY 
CARNEGIE MELLON
"PARIS 1986"
"GERMANY 1986"
"MEXICO 1986"
What are you doing this summer? Why not make it a European or Mexican 
summer?
Join us for three weeks on the CMU Campus and four weeks in Europe or 
Mexico developing your communication skills in French, German, or Spanish.
Intensive language instruction, excellent teachers, for beginning and in
termediate students.
Full day program, five days a week, for three weeks in June in Pittsburgh. 12 
units, $850. Continental breakfast and lunch included.
French program at Institut Catholique in Paris for 4 weeks (July 1-31).
German program at Goethe Institute in Rothenburg for 4 weeks (July 7-August 1). 
Spanish program at University of Guanajuato, Mexico (June 25-July 25).
Each overseas program, 18 units, 81,250. Includes tuition, room and board, and 
excursions.
Students may enroll in either the Pittsburgh or European programs independently.
Make this a special summer. Write or call us for details. Modern Languages, Carnegie 
Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. (412) 268-2881.
Deadline for application April 1.
P
1 Carnegie Mellons Newest Department
H
We relate traditional philosophical concerns to practical and 
1 theoretical issues in Computer Science and the Natural and 
Social Sciences. We offer
| #a flexible disciplinary major 
; #a professional major in Logic & Computation*
#a variety of concentrations and minors
0
g COME TO OUR OPEN HOUSE
THURSDAY, MARCH 6, 4-5 p.m.
V J BAKER HALL 135
P
* * Logic & Computation majors get a firm background in com
puter science, together with a grounding in logic, philosophy,
 1______I and formal theories of language. Logic & Computation can
be pursued as a double major by students in MCS and CIT.
Y

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements
Carnegie Salutes Carnegie, scheduled for 8:30 pm, 
April 19, at the Civic Arena, combines the talents 
of Carnegie Mellon alumni from stage and screen with 
those of student performers. The line up includes host 
Andv Williams with Charles Haid, Barbara Feldon, 
Jerry Lewis, Steven Bochco, Barbara Bosson, Diane 
Fratantoni, Robert Foxworth and Nancy Marchand. 
The show caps the universitys annual three-day 
Spring Carnival. Student tickets are available after 
March 12 at the Skibo Information Desk. Students 
must present their ID to receive two tickets. For more 
information and tickets call 268-8893.
President Cverts Office Hours. President Richard 
M. Cvert has open office hours for students on March 
11 and April 4 from 3 pm to 5 pm in his office, WH 
602. Students who wish to meet with the president 
should telephone his secretary at 268-2200 to set 
up an appointment.
Veterans Memorial Scholarship Fund. The 1986 
Coors Veterans' Memorial Scholarship Fund provides 
more than $500,000 to the sons and daughters of 
American Veterans. To be eligible for consideration, 
applicants must have completed at least one year of 
college, have a cumulative grade-point average of at 
least 2.75 on a 4.0 scale and be under 22 years of 
age as of July 1, 1986. Applicants must be 
dependents of American service personnel who were 
killed in action, are missing in action or who died 
in the line of duty. The student may reside anywhere 
worldwide, but must be enrolled full-time in an ac
credited four-year institution of higher education in 
the U.S. Applications can be obtained from local 
Coors distributors or participating veterans organiza
tions, by writing Coors Veterans Memorial Scholar
ship Fund, P. 0. Box 7529, Wheeling, 111., 60090, 
or by calling toll-free to 1-800-49COORS. Deadline 
for completed applications and materials is July 1, 
1986.
Americas Perfect Teen.March 8 is the deadline 
for applications to the 1986 Pennsylvanias Perfect 
Teen Pageant. Entrants must be between 14 and 19 
years of age and never married. If interested, write 
to Pennsylvanias Perfect Teen Pageant Regional 
Headquarters, 347 Locust Avenue, Washington, PA 
15301 by March 8. Letters must include a recent 
snapshot, a brief biography and a phone number. 
Buhl Science Center. Real, Live Robots4 is 
presented through March 31 from 1 pm to 5 pm dai
ly; Friday evenings until 9:30 pm and 10 am to 9:30 
pm, Saturdays. Special hours are in effect for Easter 
weekend. Call 321- 4300.
Decrease Stress. Managing School and Personal 
Stress,1 Wednesdays at 4:30 pm to 5:30 pm through 
March 19. The Womens Group,4 Thursdays at 5 
pm to 6 pm through March 20. Getting Along: Deal
ing with Roommate Conflict,4 Tuesdays at 4:30 pm 
to 5:30 pm through March 18. "Going Home Again: 
Dealing With Parents,4 Wednesdays at 4 pm to 5 
pm from March 12 through March 19. 'Understan
ding Alcohol and Drug Abuse in Famines,4 Tuesdays 
at 4 pm to 5 pm from March 11 through March 18. 
For more information and registration call x2922 or 
visit Counseling and Student Development Center, 
Morewood Gardens El03 from 9 am to noon or 1 
pm to 5 pm.
Summer Archaeological Field School. Applica
tions are being accepted for a four to eight week ar
chaeological field school at Monticello, the home of 
Thomas Jefferson, during the summer of 1986. The 
course teaches the method and theory of fieldwork 
in American historical archaeology and offers both 
the untrained and experienced student the chance 
to learn practical skills of excavation and recording. 
The course consists of weekly seminars, field and 
laboratory work and presentations by prominent guest 
lecturers. Full tuition is provided by the Thomas Jef
ferson Memorial Foundation. Room and board may 
be arranged through the University of Virginia at a 
moderate cost. For more information and an applica
tion please write to Dr. William M. Kelso, Director 
of Archaeology, Monticello, Department SN, Box 
316, Charlottesville, VA 22902. The deadline for 
applications is April 14.
Frankenstein Exhibit. An exhibit on Frankenstein 
is presented through April 30, from 1:30 pm to 4:30 
pm or by appointment in the Fine Book Room, Hunt 
Library, fourth floor.
Save Those Snowballs! On Saturday, June 21, 
Solstice Day, each snowball is good for one free ad
mission to the Snowball Arena at The Buhl Science 
Center.
City Theater Company. Painting Churches by Tina 
Howe is presented through March 29. For ticket in
formation, call 624-4101.
Cape Cod Summer Job Bureau. Cape Cod. 
Massachusetts and the offshore islands of Nantucket 
and Martha's Vineyard have more good paying jobs 
open to students and teachers this summer than ever 
before. Hiring continues through June, but the choice 
jobs generally go to those who apply earliest. For im
mediate information on the many kinds of jobs 
available and details on how to apply send a selfaddressed stamped envelope to: Cape Cod Summer 
Job Bureau, Box 594, Room 8, Barnstable, MA 
02630.
Heart Association Guides Pittsburghers To A 
Healthy Heart. The Western Pennsylvania Chapter 
of the American Heart Association is teaming up with 
Allegheny Internationals AI Showcase to help Pitt
sburghers learn about cardiac fitness in their third 
annual Heart Health Month. Each day during lun
chtime, volunteers demonstrate how to reduce the 
risk of heart disease by careful monitoring, exercise 
and diet. Blood pressure screenings, exercise and 
conditioning, body analyses that measure individual 
fat and muscle content, instructions in nutrition and 
recipes are given during this month. Events take place 
at AI Showcase in the Koppers Building at Seventh 
and Grant Streets.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Junior Childrens Theatre.
The Magic Horn of Charlemagne. A heroic story of 
young Roland, nephew of Charlemagne, who seeks 
to recover the Emperors famous sword Durandal 
from evil Falerine. Set against the background of the 
Middle Ages, this play brings the period and its peo
ple to life in a stirring adventure at 11 am and 2:30 
pm, Saturdays, and 2:30 pm, Sundays through 
March 29.
Theatre On The Edge, a new company at the Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, will be casting four productions 
by local, professional playwrights to premiere in 
April, Auditions are Sunday, March 9, by appoint
ment only. Call 621-0746.
Velar Gallery. Margot Mandel, a senior printmaker, 
presents a show 4By My Choice4 of selected 
woodblock prints and drawings through March 27. 
Gallery hours are 9 am to 5 pm, Monday through 
Friday.
Marcus Gordon Gallery. Six new etchings by Judy 
Barie are presented. Hugh Kepets, Paul Narkiewicz, 
Leslie Golomb, Nancy Hagin and Carolyn Brady also 
exhibit their work. The exhibition runs through March 
22. Gallery hours are 11 am to 5:30 pm, Monday 
through Saturday; 11 am to 8 pm, Thursday. The 
Gallery is on 416 Craig Street.
Robert Arneson: Points of View. Robert Arneson 
presents his ceramic sculptures, drawings and prints 
through March 16 at the Pittsburgh Center for the 
Arts Commons Room Gallery.
Mark Burns: A Decade in Pennsylvania, 
1975-1985. Mark Burns presents his ceramics and 
mixed media through March 23 at the Society for 
Art in Crafts, 719 Allegheny River Boulevard. Gallery 
hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Monday through Satur
day; and 1 pm to 5 pm, Sunday.
Political Statements in Clay. Dale Dapkins, James 
Dugas, Don Fisher, Peter Gourfain, Richards 
Lipscher, Kirk Mangus, and Jeff Schlanger exhibit
:7/Sn n/7OO B OSdermatologist
their work through March 20 at the Clay Place, 5600 
Walnut Street. Gallery hours are 10 am to 5 pm, 
Monday through Saturday; 7 pm to 9 pm, Wednes
day.
Carnegie Museum of Art Special Programs and 
Events. Saturdays at the Museum for Families and 
Friends, is held in the Childrens Room from 1:30 
pm to 3 pm. Advance registration. Call 622-3214. 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History. Nature 
Photography Programs. A variety of classes are of
fered from Basic Photography to Scenic Photography. 
Advance registration. Fees vary.
Carnegie Institute. Natural World Photographic 
Competition and Exhibition (Changing Exhibits 
Gallery) continues through March 16. 
Carnegie-Mellon University Art Gallery . Hilla and 
Bernd Becher: American Industrial Buildings is 
shown through March 9. Gallery hours are 10 am 
to 5 pm. Tuesday through Friday; 11 am to 5 pm. 
Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sunday. The Gallery 
is at 407 South Craig Street.
Carnegie-Mellon University Art Gallery. The Art
Faculty Exhibit is shown through March 9. Gallery 
hours are 10 am to 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 
11 am to 5 pm, Saturday; and 1 pm to 4 pm, Sun
day.
Forbes Gallery. Beth Lovedusky, Mike Pesselato 
and Gregg Liberi present their work March 4 through 
March 9. Gallery hours are 11 am to 6 pm, Wednes
day through Friday, and noon to 5 pm, Saturday and 
Sunday . Opening 7 pm to 9 pm. Refreshments serv
ed.
Matt Bulvonvs The End of the Road Show, at 
the Blatent Image Gallery/Silver Eye Photographic 
Workshop. The exhibition runs through March 29, 
and Bulvony will attend an open to the public forum 
on March 13 at 8 pm. The gallery is located at 1015 
East Carson St. and is open to the public Wednes
day through Saturday from noon til 5pm. Call 
431-1810 for further details.
Second Burroughs Design Competition. Bur
roughs Corporation has announced the Second Bur
roughs Design Competition for outstanding examples 
of industrial design of products that incorporate com
puter capability and technology in the 
human/machine interface. The competition is open 
to upper level industrial design students and recent 
graduates in North America. First prize is a cash 
award of $10,000 to the designer. The educational 
sponsor of the first prize recipient receives a Bur
roughs B 25 business computer with printer. Second 
prize is $5,000 to the designer and third prize is 
$1,000. All entries must be received by March 31. 
Award winners will be notified by telegram after April 
15. Further information on the 1986 Burroughs 
Design Competition can be ODtained from: Competi
tion Coordinator, Corporate Industrial Design, Bur
roughs Corporation, 41100 Plymouth Road, 
Plymouth, MI 48170. Telephone: 313-451-4468.
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Daily prayer 
meetings are held at 6 pm in the Chapel, Skibo Room 
39, Monday through Saturday.
Classifieds
ACT NOW: DISKETTES. Bulk Stt DS/DD 49 
cents each. Lots of 50. These are not 2nds. MONEY 
BACK GUARANTEE. No questions asked. POs ac
cepted. CALL 1-800-633-9242. 9-9 EST M-F. 10-6 
Sat. Offer expires 3/1/86.
Shadyside Apartment. 1 bedroom. 3 rooms. 
Security System, w/w, redecorated. 621-2873.
24 lOOi CONCRETE CANOE. Civil engineering 
award winner. S10 or best offer. Call CMU Explorer's 
club x3059.
BEAULIEU 4008 ZM2 Movie Camera. S400. 
487-2200. ask for Rab or Vince.
Desparately Wanted: 9 x6" Black Date Book. Gold 
name tag R. J. Ruschel" on front. Leave at Info Desk. 
Thank You.
REGENT SQUARE/WILKINSBURG. For rent: 
Modern 1 bedroom garden apartment. Security 
building. On busline, w/w carpetingcentral air 
conditioningAll apliancesDraperiesCable TV. 
S325 + Heat & Electricity. Avalable April 1. 1986. 
Call after 6 pm242-0753.
I he Used Book People are coming soon to Gray 
Matter. Look for details in next week's Tartan.
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success. P.O. Box 470CES, Woodstock. 
IL 60098.
Brand-New Thing for sale by owner. Must sell. 
Never used, till in original packing. Asking $200 
or best resonable offer. A real bargin. Call Joshua 
at x4378.
Roommate Needed Immediately-graduate/mature
undergradshare 2 BR Point Breeze Apt. $ 150/mo. 
includes utilities. Quiet, non-smoker only. Call 
363-0189.
TWENTY PERCENT of students attending 
four-year colleges have $200 or more per 
month in discretionary income, according to an 
study by Simmons Market Research Rureau. 
Two-thirds of the students with this much spend
ing money work during the school year.
FIVE CHICKENS FELL TO THEIR 
DEATHS when two U. of Alberta agriculture 
students tossed them off a second floor balcony 
during an Engineering Week rally, according 
to the Canadian University Press. The students 
thought the chickens would land safely because 
chickens can fly short distances. The prank w as 
intended to maintain the ongoing rivalry bet
ween the agis and engineers."
'easily accessible by bus from CMU
SUMMER CAMP
Positions In The Catskill Mountains of New York
CAMP SHANE
Ferndale, N.Y. 12734
CAMP SEQUOIA
Box 339
Rock Hill, N. Y. 12775 
914-679-5291
dit ion al Co-Ed Camp 
90 miles NYC.
Our 55th Year.
914-292-4644
Trim-Down
Physical Fitness Camp 
100 miles NYC.
CALL OR WRITE INDIVIDUAL CAMP FOR 
APPLICATION
INTERVIEWING ON CAMPUS
MARCH 12
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-0616
N. P. MANAGEMENT
SORTH CRAIG STREET TOWXHOUSE
LARGE, 3-BEDROOM. FURNISHED:
S425 PLUS GAS/ELEC.
ALSO IS SAME HUILDISG 
AVAILABLE FOH FALL 1986 TERMLARGER, 2-BEDROOM. FURNISHED APARTMENT: 
S350 PLUS GAS/ELEC.
CALL 751-9639

---------------------------------------------------

Events
4
T uesday
Movies
The Pawnbroker, starring Rod Steiger 
Geraldine Fitzgerald. Brock Peters and Jaime San
chez. Brilliant and disturbing film about a Jewish 
pawnbroker in Harlem who is haunted by memories 
of the Nazi concentration camps. Pittsburgh 
Plavhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:40 pm. Admission 
S2.95.
Easy Rider, in DH 2210. 6. 8. 10. and 12 pm. Ad
mission SI. 00
Sports
Fencing. Home match against Indiana I niversity at 
5:30 pm.
Lectures
Chemical Engineering Seminar. Professor Gary 
Haller. Chemical Engineering Department. \ ale 
University, speaks on 'Characterization of MetaiSupport Interaction of Rh and Pt of Ti02 and \ 203 
Supports by Exafs and Reactions of Butane' on 
MARCH 11 at 11 am in DH 1112. Coffee and 
donuts will be served at 10:45 am in DH 1102.
Workshops
Cover Letter W riting. A traditional mass mailing 
of letters typically generates only a 3% response. 
Learn how to increase your results. 4:30 pm to 5:30 
pm in Skibo room 45.
Music
Senior Recital: Robert James. Robert James, 
trumpet, performs at 8 pm in the Alumni Concert 
Hall. CFA.
Wednesday
.Movies
Head, starring The Monkees. Teri Garr. \ ito 
Scotti. Frank Zappa and Jack Nicholson. The film 
debut of the TV rock group The Monkees with a wild 
assortment of gags, old film clips, etc. Something for 
everyone. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:30 
pm. Admission S2.95.
Lectures
Department of Computer Science Distinguished 
Lecture. Christopher M. Brown, Chairman of the 
Computer Science Department. University of 
Rochester, speaks on 'Whats Ahead For Machine 
Vision?' at 4 pm in WeH 7500.
Department of Mechanical Engineering Guest 
Lecture Series. Professor Herbert B. Voelcker, 
University of Rochester and Deputy Director, 
DMCE/NSF. speaks on Research in Programmable
Automation' at 3:15 pm in Scaife Hall Auditorium. 
Coffee and donuts are served at 2:45 pm in the Scaife 
Hall Lounge. Room 322.
Clubs
AIESEC. an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both prac
tical and cultural. Meetings are held at 4:30 pm in 
Skibo room 11.
French Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a French Language Table every Wednes
day at noon at the Morewood Cafeteria.
Alpha Phi Omega, meetings are held at 8:30 pm 
in the Adamson ing.
Music
Jazz Concert. Jazz Band performs Music that 
Moves' at 7:30 pm in the Skibo Ballroom. Admis
sion free, donation accepted. For more information, 
call 673-3628.
Art
Lebanon. Four Centuries of Art. An audio visual 
presentation by Richard A. Chahine. Porter Hall 
225C at 7:30 pm.
Thursday
6 Movies
Long Day s Journey into Night, starring 
Katherine Hepburn. Ralph Richardson. Jason 
Robards and Dean Stockwell. Eugene O'Neills 
modern tragedy comes to the screen with dynamic 
performances. A devastating film drama about the 
tormented Tvrone family. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm. Admission S2.95.
Utamaro and his 5 W omen, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm. 8 pm and 10 pm. Admis
sion SI.
Lectures
Department of Psychology Colloquium. Dr. Harry 
Reis. University of Rochester, speaks on Studying 
Social Interaction in the Natural Environment4 at 4 
pm in the Adamson Wing. Coffee will be served 
before the lecture in the Psychology Lounge, BH 
336-D.
Bioengineering Graduate Program Seminar. Pro
fessor William C. Dewey, Ph.D., Director/Radiation 
Oncology Laboratory Research, University of Califor
nia San Francisco, speaks on Basic Aspects of 
Hyperthermia in Cancer Therapy* at 12:30 pm in 
DH 1102. A light lunch is served at noon prior to 
the seminar and a question and answer session 
follows.
Carnegie Mellon Objectivist Club. Dr. Harry 
Binswanger speaks on Individualism, The Moral 
Basis of Freedom4 at 8 pm in the media room of Hunt
Library.
Special Events
 - ^ 
Museum of Art Special Programs and Events.
Parent/Child ARTexpress provides weekly activities 
for adults and children from 10 am to 11:30 am 
every Thursday. Advance registration. For more in
formation call 622-3241.
Clubs
German Table. The Modern Languages Program 
sponsors a German Language table at noon in the 
Morewood Cafeteria.
CMU Explorers Club. If you're interested in rock 
climbing, kayaking, caving and hiking, come to a 
meeting at 6:30 pm in BH 131B. Trips every 
weekend. Beginners are welcome.
Friday
Movies
Mont)- Python and the Holy Grail, starr
ing John Cleese. Terry Gilliam and The Monty Python 
Comedy Troupe. A madcap re-working of the King 
Arthur legend with some outrageous comic moments. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 
11:30 pm. Admission 82.95.
From Here to Eternity, sponsored by AB Films. 
DH 2210 at 6 pm. 8 pm. 10 pm and midnight. Ad
mission SI.
Lectures
Isaac Levi. Professor of Philosophy at Columbia 
University speaks on The Paradoxes of Allias and 
Ellsberg." Adamson Wing. Baker Hall, at 3:30 pm.
Clubs
Intervarsity Christian Fellowship. Large group 
meetings are held at 7 pm in Skibo Room 12.
8
Saturday
Movies
Woody Allen Double Bill: Play it Again, 
Sam. Funny adaptation of Allens Broadway play 
about a man coached by Bogart to meet women, and 
Bananas, starring Howard Cosell. Woody gets mix
ed up in a revolution. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 10:30 pm. Admission S2.95.
Pale Rider, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 
6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm and midnight. Admission SI.
Trips
Ski Trip to Hidden Valley. The Association for In
dustrial Management and Economics is sponsoring 
a ski trip from 4:30 pm to 11 pm. The bus leaves 
at 3 pm. Alternative date: March 14. Total Cost is 
S16, a S5 deposit is due on March 5. For more in
formation call Allison Goldberg at 687-7818 or Tod 
Giles at 681-6478.
9
Sunday
Movies
Key l^argo. starring Humphrey Bogart, Ed
ward G. Robinson. Lauren Bacall. Lionel Barrymore 
and Claire Trevor (Oscar winner). Classic drama 
about gangster holding people captive in a Florida 
hotel. Fine performances. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 
7:30 pm and 9:30 pm. Admission S2.95.
The Graduate, starring Dustin Hoffman and Anne 
Bancroft, with music by Simon and Garfunkel. DH 
2210 at 6,8,10, and 12 pm. Also the cartoon From 
here to Fraternity. An A Phi 0 service.
Europe in Film Series: Breathless, starring JeanLuc Godard, Jean-Paul Belmondo and Jean Seberg. 
A French gangster falls for a nice American girl in 
Paris with surprising results. Admission is free. 
Adamson Wing at 3 pm. This series is sponsored by 
the Program in European Studies, Department of 
History.
' ' \ - '  ? s_ ;
Music
All Schubert Evening, at the Rodef Shalom Con
gregation, 4905 5th Ave.
10
Monday
Movies
Hamlet, starring Laurence Olivier. 
Ei'een Herlie. jean Simmons and Basil Sydney. A 
rousing, visually exciting, well-acted version of 
Shakespeares classic study of indecision and cons
cience. Four Oscars including one for Olivier and 
one for Best Picture. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 10:10 pm. Admission S2.95.
Ait History Film Series: Landscapes in Painting,
John Constable and Joseph Turner are shown at 7:30 
pra at the King Estate.
Frankenstein, The Original, sponsored by Student
Activities and the Libraries in DH 2210. Admission 
SI.
Lectures
Apartheid: Facts and Responses. Danisa Baloyi. 
Columbia University Coalition for a Free Southern 
Africa; Richard Elphick, a leading historian of South 
Africa; Cecilie Counts, coordinator of the Free South 
Africa Movement; and Robert J. Schwartz, former 
U.S. Treasury official, speak on apartheid from 4 pm 
to 10 pm in the Skibo Ballroom. President Cyert 
chairs a panel discussion at 8:30 pm.
Clubs
Macintosh Users Group (CML-MUG). The Macin
tosh Users Group (CMU-MUG) holds its meeting at 
6:30 pm in DH A317.
If you wish to place an announcement, classified 
ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The Tartan send 
it in care of Leslie Gordon/ACME, Public Relations. 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; 
send it via campus mail to the above address; or drop 
it off at 5017 Forbes Ave. Events may be sent through 
computer mail to TT999TF. Only classified ads uiM 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when sub
mitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief description 
location, date, and time. In addition, include the 
name and phone number of the person submitting; this 
information will be used only to confirm the event 
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
validity of any Events listings. In addition, it reserve* 
the right to edit or omit any listing for publication 
Classified ad forms are available in our office. 
All events are free of charge and open to the general 
CMU student population unless otherwise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday 3 
pm for the next week's issue. If you have any co 
ments or suggestions, send them to any of the address6 
listed above.
Despite the cold and rain, the SKI is slowly making its appearance.

---------------------------------------------------

Features
Theo bursts onto the scene
Dear Theo:
Though I am a junior at Carnegie Mellon, I 
am new here because I am a transfer student. 
I came here from a small girls school in Min
nesota mostly because CMU has a much better 
music department. But there was another reason 
for my switch; I wanted to meet Mr. Perfect. 
I figured that a school like this would have plen
ty of smart, witty, and charming gendemen, and 
Im sure it does. But Ive had problems getting 
into the right social circles. How can I break 
the ice and get involved?
Still Lonely
Dear Still:
I have found that one way to break the social 
ice is to pretend to be totally inept at 
something. That is, take the simpliest action and 
complicate it beyond belief. For example, you 
go to get some candy from a vending machine 
and there is a handsome hunk there that you 
would like to meet. Simply go up to the machine 
and act dumb. If the machine has only one 
buttondont notice it. Forget to put in money; 
try to force a paper dollar into the coin slot. 
Anything to make him think youre stupid. Your 
Prince Charming will come to the rescue and 
a romantic interlude will ensue. Good luck in 
finding Mr. Goodbar.
Theo
Dear Theo:
I have a problem with falling asleep in class. 
That in itself is not such a big problem. How
ever, my physics professor seems to thrive on 
calling on me while I am snoozing. What to do?
Dear Z:
Another common problem. People come to 
me every day asking the same exact question. 
In fact, you wouldn't believe the flood of let
ters I received this week asking me about sleep 
and sleep-related diseases. It's amazing. What 
was the question?
??
Theo
? ?
Dear Theo:
Our baby girl is almost a year old and is start
ing to get her first teeth. Because of this, my wife 
and I are kept awake at night from the babys 
crying with teething pain. What can we do?
A house husband
Dear H.H.:
In my vast experience with children, I have 
found that this common problem is a fairly easy 
one to solve. All you need is some common 
sense. Take the babys bottle, fill it with one 
part brandy, one part rumdrink it yourself and 
you wont give a damn, buddy.
Theo
??
Dear Theo:
For some time now, our next-door neighbors 
dog has been coming into our yard and leaving 
a big mess, if you know what I mean. I have 
complained to the owner of the dog several 
times, but no action has been taken. Seeing as 
the dog is a Doberman and I havent the money 
to build a spite fence, what should I do?
Dbg hater
Dear Dog:
You say this Doberman leaves a mess (if I 
know what you mean). Well. I dont. Just what 
are you trying to say? You mean like poop?
Theo 
???
A veritable feast. . .
Big Jims Restaurant
By NANCY KRESS
Tartan Staffiiriter 
A sign adorning Big Jim's walls reads: This 
taverns family-oriented. We welcome your en
tire family. Profanity or rowdiness is not per
mitted." These words sum up the dining at
mosphere at Big Jim's, a small restaurant/bar 
a five minute drive from CMU. Reminiscent of 
old Pittsburgh, Big Jim's is situated on a cob
blestone street close to row houses aligning the 
hillsides. Walking in, it's easy to imagine the 
days when it was filled with steel workers ready 
to relax after a long day in the fortress of J&L 
Steel. Big Jim's isn't a landmark yetas it was 
founded in 1977though someday when steel 
is no longer associated with Pittsburgh it cer
tainly has the chance to become one. You won't 
find mill workers populating the dining room 
and bar today, but vou will find ordinary wor
ding people and their families. The atmosphere 
ls genuine, pleasant and at times it can get 
noisy. Waiting for a table seldom happens as 
service is <|uick. yet you are never rushed. The 
decor is simple, authentic and comfortable, with 
d hint of Italian. Apart from the dining room 
ls *he bar with additional seating at small tables 
alng side. There is a color television at either
end of the bar, often showing music videos in 
non-Steeler season.
Dear Theo:
I have a problem of disastrous proportions.
I find myself, a junior in Mechanical Engineer
ing, in a state of academic chaos. You see, Ive 
faked my way through 2Vt years of college, and 
it is catching up with me. Im failing three (3) 
of my classes. In the past Ive always had am
ple help from my Mech E. buddies; theyve aid
ed, tutored, and prodded me along. However, 
as I have said, its all been a big charade. I have 
recendy realized that I dont know half of the 
things I should. I mean, if I were an employer 
I wouldnt even think of hiring me. I realize that 
this is probably awfully late to be realizing these 
sorts of things, but Ive decided to face it now 
instead of prolonging my ineptitude any more. 
Where should I go? What should I do?
Lost and drowning
Dear Lost:
So what? So youre faking it. Big deal. Who 
isnt? Most shoes are fake leather. Howard 
Cosell has fake hair. My girlfriend has fake 
orgasms. Most of the people I know have fake 
attitudes. Ive been faking it for years. So why 
not a fake major? Mech E. may be fake to start 
with, so why even try? Dont send me depress
ing letters. Go on, fake. Just make lots of money. 
Hope I helped.
Theo
Ask
Theo
Ask
Theo
Thats all for this week. kids. If you have any 
questions for me. write to me in care of the 
Features Editor of the Tartan (Skibo 50).
Good bye and good problems.
Theo
???
Sleep?
The menu consists primarily of Italian food, 
reasonably priced, with large servings. They
have an ample selection of sandwiches, hot and 
cold, including a substantial fish sandwich. The 
side order and appetizer list includes better than 
average fried zucchini. Standard Italian and 
American pasta is cooked fresh to order, often 
arriving sooner than the forty-five minute wait 
the menu states. Compared to many other 
restaurants' pasta dishes, which are swimming 
in pools of olive oil. Big Jim s selections rely 
on the seasonings, sauces and fillings to com
pliment the pasta. Other deserving mentions in
clude the soup, which is homemade daily, and 
the antipasto. with the small order almost a meal 
in itself. Several specials are listed, including 
a Honeymooner's Special for those with a 
romantic evening in mind. Chec^ the original 
dessert section also. The w ine selection is small: 
a large selection of beers are available.
Big Jim's is an excellent place to go with a 
large of small group of friends, or on a date. 
Dinners are priced from 86 to SI 1; sandwiches 
in the 84 range. Big Jim s is located at 201 
Saline Street. From Fifth Avenue, turn left on 
Halket. and follow to Decond Avenue. Look for 
a small sign on the left for Big Jim's.
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
and ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
Time. A very ambiguous concept to most peo
ple, especially college students. Remember 
back in high school, when mommy told you to 
go to bed at 11:00, and not to forget to brush 
your teeth? Well, now that all of us are in col
lege, time has become a non-reality.
College-age students often find themselves at 
5:00 in the morning, especially Monday morn
ings cramming for exams, putting the finishing 
touches on homework, hacking in Wean Hall, 
typesetting for the newspaper, or engaged in any 
number of other activities.
You have all heard the cliche' that, an assign
ment due on Monday gives you the whole 
weekend to do it, but if it may be due Tues
day, you have only one night to complete it. Our 
perception of time may not necessarily be 
wrong, per se, but it is somewhat distorted by 
the collegiate experience.
Let us time-warp for a moment into the 
Twilight-Zone and examine the thought pro
cesses of, say, two people in a cramped, cold 
bleak-looking room at say, 5:00 am on a Mon
day morning, working on, say, the newspaper, 
or something. Some people are actuallv doing 
things like that while others do homework, or 
God help us, sleep. These people may be total
ly and completely insane, or they may just have 
a sort-of crazy unexplainable love for their work 
that they would deny in public.
continued on page 26

---------------------------------------------------

Page 26The TartanMarch 4. 1986
a
Reaction: Students speak up
by MERLE OXMAN AND MARIE 
PARRETTE
Tartan Staffunters 
If Mohammed won't come to the mountain, 
then the mountain will come to Mohammed...
This column is the first in a series which will 
explore campus reaction to various questions. 
These questions may be serious or stupid. Thev 
may relate to international events, to national 
issues, or to campus interests. Published 
statements have not been edited. Hopefullv, we 
will print the remarks of a representative sam
ple of the campus community. Next week will 
bring the added thrill of photographs. Please 
feel free to comment on anything appearing in 
"Reaction. Our format is casual, babv.
Question:
IS SCOTLAND YARD A POSITIVE ADDI
TION TO THIS CAMPUS?
Mattheu Conti (Soph. Mech E):
"It's a positive addition but I think it would 
be more beneficial if it were more popular. I 
was just there last night and we were the only 
people there. I think the whole purpose of it is 
to create a social atmosphere. If they served 
alcohol, they would accomplish this goal a lot 
better."
Karen Eriksen (Sr. English):
I've never been there and I dont know 
anything about it. I've never been interested in 
going there."
Carol Lau (Jr, GCM):
"It's a nice place to go when youre wander
ing around campus and you have an hour to 
blow off. The atmosphere is nice because it's
not too big or small. The prices are reasonable. 
Thev don't pubilcize the events enough, though. 
I would have liked to see Stop Making Sense'."
In its present state it doesnt offer anything thats unique enough to spend $150,000 on. It does, however, hold a certain amount of potential that, hopefully, with time and a liquor license, will be realized/*John Carroll 3rd year. Architecture
Andrea Sperling (Fr, H&SS):
"Any form of entertainment wrould be a 
positive addition to this bleak campus. I think 
it's goodthere's entertainment. Possibly, 
forms of entertainment could be extended to 
things lita poetry readings or monologues. 
Theres a' kind of supervised feeling to it 
because they don't serve alcohol. It doesnt 
quite feel like our place."
Dale Gaetano (Fr, MCS):
Yes. It provides a place for people to meet 
if theyre not in a fraternity. It lets you relax 
during the week without getting drunk. Its good 
especially for freshmen because its a good way 
to meet new people. It gives a choice of different 
foods that arent UDS.
Priscilla Briggs (Soph, Design):
I think Scotland Yard is a good thing 
because its run by students and it will be more 
of what students want than UDS is. Its a casual 
place where people can go at night on campus 
for a tropical drink or a little snack that's out 
of the ordinary. I could be wrong because Ive 
never been there.
Pitawas Indharameesup (Fr, CIT):
I don't think so because its not totally a part 
of this campus. Its being run like a separate 
entity like Roy Rogers or McDonalds if they 
opened on campus. 1 haven't beenthere too 
often because I think it's a bit too crowded. 
George Michaels (Soph, Chemistry):
Its never had anything that Ive known of 
that would particularly appeal to me enough to 
drag me in from off campus."
Ann Spugnardi (Sr, Biology):
I didn't think it was a good idea from the 
start. If it was a very needed thing on campus,
I think more people would be utilizing it. 
Because 1 work in Skibo, I see the traffic flow 
and its very minimal.
Time is of the
continued from page 25
It is hard to explain. When you sit there and 
do whatever it is you are doing, you swear you 
hate it, and will never do it again. Somehow, 
though, we persevere to do the work and even
tually succeed. Many college students find that 
this is one of their keys to success. Some force, 
maybe just to get that diploma four years down 
the road, drives a person onward to strive for 
goals that are seemingly unattainable. In many
Javier Foncillas (Jr, ECE):
Yes, I think it is because it provides the op. 
portunity to go out for drinks without actually 
having to leave the campus. Its also a good 
source of entertainment. I think the TV nights 
they have ar^pretty good.
John Carroll (3rd year, Architecture):
In its present state it doesnt offer anything 
thats unique enough to spend $150,000 on. 
It does, however, hold a certain amount of 
potential that, hopefully, with time and a liquor 
license, will be realized.''
Paul Bigby (Fr, Drama):
I believe it is. However, 1 question whether 
it's making money or not. I think some of the 
prices are ridiculously high, for example the 
cake and some of the drinks as well. Please 
don't misunderstandit provides nice at
mosphere. However, I question how many peo
ple use the facilities.
Seth Gordon (Sr, Drama):
I don't know enough about it to say 
anything."
essence
cases it is self-destructive in that we ignore our 
immediate needs of relaxation and sleep in 
order to pursue our waking dreams (fince we 
do not have any sleeping dreams).
What all this incoherent gibberish is saying, 
is that everyone knows college is tougfc, and it 
takes work, but put the time in while you can, 
and you may actually succeed in attaining that 
elusive goal you have always dreamed of 
reaching.
LEARN HOW 
TO FLY HELICOPTERS.
First, theres a time commitment. You dont solo overnight. You must be prepared to dedicate yourself to an intensive training program lasting some 40 weeks.You must meet some special physical and mental requirements to enroll, then complete basic training and pre-flight training before you begin your Warrant Officer Flight Training course.But all that time, the hurdles, the training rigors all seem worthwhile once you lift the skids from the ground, sure of your ability to make it move to your touch. To fly.To qualify, you must have a high school diploma, be at least 17, not older than 27 1/2 at enlistment.Once you become a Warrant Officer pilot, youll return to a local Army Reserve unit and train one weekend a month (usually) and two weeks a year for at least 48 months.
If you can make the commitment, and pass the tests, you could 
be on your way to wearing wings. If youre interested, heres where 
to call: 412-644-4259 (M-F, 8am-5pm)
ARMY RESERVE. 
BEALLYOUCANBE.
PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA
S3810 IVY STREET
682-3333
_ .. Mon.-Sat. 5 PM-1 AM
FREE Delivery Sunday 12 PM-12 am
We sell pizza by the slice
SPECIAL: Order $10.00 or 
more and get a coupon for 
FREE $3 Cheese Pizza.
a
<NN
<NN
LARGE$
PIZZA
Offer
Valid
With
Mention
Of
Ad
FREE
iter of Coke 
With Purchase 
Of Large Pizza

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 27
Air Band raises $5000+ for Multiple Sclerosis
Carnegie Mellons spirit to Fire 
up and Bust MS was evident at 
Saturday evenings Rock Alike con
cert held at the gymnasium. Ten 
bands competed in the concert, 
which raised $5310 toward the MS 
fund. The winner will attend the 
regional competition and have a 
chance at appearing on MTV.
By far, the two favorite crowd 
pleasers at the concert were the 
Time, by SDC and Prince and the 
Revolution, by Food Service. Prince, 
coming on stage with a very 
energetic band, performed a myrid 
of acrobatics that held the crowd and 
kept them cheering for the entire 
performance. The Time, led by Jeff 
Muller as Morris Day. who won last
THE FAIRFAX APTS!!
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling 8r Student Development Center...............268-2922
After 5:00 p.m., a recorded message tells how to reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh................................................................782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive 
listening.
Drug Connection...................................................................   854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 59 p.m.
Tel Aid.........................................................................................281-4664
A series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safe
ty issues. Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh 
telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs.
photos by Olve Peersen
semesters AB Airband competition 
kept the audience on their feet am 
dancing through two numbers. Per 
forming a well rehearsed danc< 
routine, they seemed to be th< 
favorite of the crowd. At latest count 
the winner is The Time receiving 
1,342 votes.
So far, in this MS drive, Carnegie 
Mellon has raised a total of $ 13,000. 
This has been through a campuswide effort by the Greeks and other 
organizations. So far the top money 
makers are ATO and TX with 
$2,000 each, and SDC in close se
cond with $1,200. The school rais
ing the most funds through this na
tionwide project to bust MS will win 
a free MTV concert at their school.
25X DISCOU 
ON AN
PERSONAL COMPUTER
TO ALL CARNEGIE MELLON 
STUDENTS & 
FACULTY
GET TOUR HANDS ON THE MOST 
TECHNOLOGICALLY ADVANCED PERSONAL 
COMPUTER IN ITS CLASS 
BY CALLING
BAS I C 
COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS
(412) 342-5505 COLLECT
9 to 5 M-F
^ WITHIN A FEW BLOCKS OF CMU 
^ REASONABLE RENTAL RATES!
^ THE FINEST HI-RISE IN OAKLAND!
^ "THE FAIRFAX" ...4614 5th AVE.!
^ YOU'RE in our neighborhood, drop in!
Furnished Apt& Available
The management invites the Faculty 
Merftbers, Graduate Students & CMU 
Guests to visit and inspect our ONE 
BEDROOM & STUDIO APARTMENTS
Available for immediate occupancy
Dial 621-4030
We'll see YOU at 
"THE FAIRFAX" ...Neighbor.
Upcoming fundraisers:
 Greek Sing: Friday, 7:30, at Carnegie Music 
Hall. Tickets are $5 from any Greek or the 
Skibo info desk.
 The Miracle Mile, Saturday at Station 
Square. Come down at contribute to the mile 
of-quarters. Shuttle runs from 11 to 5, every 
hour on the hour.

---------------------------------------------------

I
THISTLE
fife, Yearbook
A walk through the memories.
On sale until 3/7.
Funded by Student Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 29
Give a hoot. 
Dont pollute
freciuon haircut only
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
237 Atwood Street Across the street from Oakland Post Office
Brains coupled with skill in the Duke League, 
as the Mech E. Grads strutted their stuff, and 
came up loss-less on the week. T&e Slimeballs 
have only one loss, however, and are closing
in fast.
DTD and the Fletchers share the blue ribbon 
in the Maryland Division, while Sure Defeat and 
1 DP each made a bid at the top slot. Competi
tion in the Carolina Division is spirited, with 
Pilam on top, and CIA and the Rat Dogs battl
ing it out for 'econd.
The Womens League put Margaret's 
Maniacs far and awav in the lead at 4-1. while 
the next best competition, Steel Zeplin, is play
ing .500 ball.
loor hockey contests are somewhat more 
evenly matched as Central Red Army holds the 
lead, while DU-A, GSIA. Kappa Sigma, and 
I DS all stand undefeated.
In the Minors, the Mexican Earthquakes and 
Pilam share the top slot in the Wales Division, 
with the Hat Tigers and Team Oahv nipping at 
their heels. The trio of Doherty Dynasty, TDP. 
and Tudor Hall dominated the Campbell
save *2.00 
j on the Precision Haircut II Complete wtmtfnmpoo ft dyting |
Champions of each weight class will be award
ed medals and top team will receive a trophy. 
All awards will be given out this Thursday at 
Intramural Awards Night.
The modular NCR PC6. 
Mate of it what you will
Introducing the new NCR PC6: 
the first highly-advanced personal 
computer thats as versatile as you are
The PC6s modular design 
means that it can grow in any 
direction your business grows.
From two floppy drives all SH 
the way up to one floppy, two H| 
hard disk drives and streamm&BB 
ing tape back-up.
The PC6 is PC/XTcompatible, so you can run 
all your favorite software. But 
leave it to NCR to come up B 
with a PC that can nearly 
double processing speed 
with the flip of a switch.
The PC6 also features: eight com
patible expansion slots, serial and parallel 
interfaces, expandable memory to 
640KB on the main board. And. 
kk an extremely affordable price. 
\ Whether you need 
I a powerful second PC or a 
first you can grow on, the 
NCR PC6 is the perfect
^ But after all, thats exactly
what youd expect from NCR.
SPORTS IN SEASON
Chess
The championship game was played this past 
week, pitting Finite Support against SAE. Con
gratulations to Finite Support, the new champs. 
Darts
Pilam-A defeated all others to gain the title of 
l'ampus champs.STUDENT & FACULTY DISCOUNTS TO 35
Commissioner. EJ. Birdyx2214
S< hf-dules are out and mav be picked up in the
W office. 
ttor ilwkey
JV-ra are reminded 1 ihr (tkmin# nd.-*: I
COMPUTER
SOURCE
INC.
3766 Wm. Penn Hwy. 
Monroeville, PA 15146 
(412) 856-1400

---------------------------------------------------

jjfj^yrdil Search Format font Style 
s.u teg^ letters lo My Father.
Open*. , ,41 -wiv/Av^L-* > * -i
r ______| " ' |
Saue R$...
Page Setups.
Dear Dad
Things are going OK here. 
Could you possibly send more 
money?
m
Pa^e 30The TarlatiMarch 4. 1986
the Intramural Night ceremonies Thursday, at 8:00 p.m. to accept their respective awards:Three Person Volleyball
Majors Champs-Theta Xi-A 
Intermediate Champs-Pilam-A 
Minors Champs--DU-C Touch Football 
Majors Champs--Pika-A 
Intermediate Champs-Crunch Bunch 
Minors Champs--AF-ROTC Soccer
Majors Champs-Real Mellon 
Intermediate Champs-CHEGSA 
Minors Champs--DU-B Cross Country
Intramural Night
^ ou are cordially invited to be our Special Guest at the 38th Annual Intramural Night to 
be held at Skibo Gymnasium on Thursday. March 6. 1986.
The program will begin at 7:00 p.m. with the Championship Intermediate League basketball 
game. This game will be the final game of the 47-team intermediate league.
At 8:00 p.m.. trophies and awards will be presented to the winners of all Intramural sports 
completed to date. Vince Carozza of Theta Xi. the President of the 1985-86 Intramural Board 
ill make the presentation of these awards.
At 8:30 p.m.. the championship basketball game of the major league will be played between 
the two final teams of our 106-team basketball league.
^e do hope your schedule will permit you to attend our 38th Annual Intramural Night. 
Sincerely.
Vince Carozza Earl J. Birdy
President-Intramural Board Director-Intramural Athletics The following teams are asked to attend CamPus Champs-Computer ScienceVolleyball
Majors Champs-Spychos 
Intermediate Champs-I Tappa Kega 
Minors Champs--DU 
Womens ChampsOrange Dot 
Chess
Campus Champs-Finite Support Golf
Campus Champs-Pilam-A W ater Polo
Majors Champs-DTD 
Minors Champs-Theta Xi Co-Rec Volleyball 
Majors Champs-Theta Xi-B 
Intermediate Champs-Your Mamma 
Minors Champs-Pilams-B
Word Processing 101.
There is a grim reality of college life that you 
may or may not be acquainted with.
Typing. No. make that hours of typing. Precisely 
why you should consider a Macintosh
W ith programs like MadVrite and Microsoft5 
Word, you can compose, edit, move paragraphs, and 
change type sizes and styles with one finger. Which 
can come in very' handy. (Especially if that's the
way you type. ) And that's just one example of how 
Macintosh helps students work smarter, quicker and 
more creatively.
The good news is, with Macintosh you don't 
have to know anything about computers 
to use one. The better news is, you don't _JL
have to know anything about white 
out, either.
c 198^ Apple Computer. Inc Apple, the Apple locami MacWrite are trademarks otApple Computer. Inc Macintosh is a trademark of McIntosh Laboratory Inc. and is being used with its express permissionMicrosoft is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation
Gvn Check-Ups
Hl) 568-1800
WEBSTER HALL
Webster Hall Apartments 
Finest High Rise In 
Oakland's Cultural Center 
EFF. 1-2 BR
Your suite includes: -Heat, A/C, fully 
equipped kitchens,w/w carpeting, 
spacious closets.
Cable TV available 
Off street covered parking available 
Limo & bus at door 
Resident storage space 
Furnished units available 
Weekdays . ... Weekends9-5 621-4132 124
Summer or Fall 1986 
Summer 1987
WASHINGTON
OR
LONDON
INTERNSHIPS
SUMMER SESSION ONLY
at Wadham College 
of the University of
OXFORD
Accredited courses in government, 
economics, journalism and prelaw by an outstanding faculty.
Full Academic Year Programs at the London School of Economics, 
St. Andrews Universities, for 
Qualified Juniors and Seniors.
All credits transferred through 
Hampden-Sydney College, Virginia 
(Founded in 1776) 
Inquiries to:
Mrs. Janet Kollek, J.D. 
Admissions Director 
The Washington International 
Studies Center 
212-724-0804 or 0136 
(EO/AA)

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 31
-Fencers have fine season;post winning record
by JILL DORSON
Tartan Sport's Editor
Boasting a 7-4 record, the Mens Varsity Fen
cing team is having a fine season, according 
i to Head Coach Jane Fisk. The fencers have 
fared well overall, as their losses came ex
clusively to Division I teams.
The foiling squad has won the majority of its 
j matches easily, as has the epee squad. Both 
levels are made up of strong competitors, with
I competitors. The fencers have repeatedly 
come out ahead in Division III matches. The 
teams combined record stands at 7-3.
Over the semester, both squads have come 
up victorious against California State, 
Allegehenv, Penn State, Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania, and Case Western. The men top
ped Oberlin College as well.
This past Saturday, six members of the mens 
team traveled to the North Atlantic Conference 
Championships, though results of the confronexperience being their only aowmau. w ltn a 
little more experience, they will have all wins, 
stated Fisk.
The beginners team is keeping its nose clean, 
picking up enough wins to help the record. 
Coach Fisk noted that the winning squad has 
a mixture of experienced and beginnng
fencers.
On the womens side, the oudook is much the 
same, most losses having come against Division
tations were unavailable at presstime.
Coach Fisk qualified the North Atlanics as a 
means for our fencers to make it to Nationals. 
Though she stated that it was difficult for 
Division III fencers to make it to Nationals, she 
remained optimistic as to her teams chances 
and outlook.
Both the mens and womens team will host 
rivals from IUP this afternoon, in their final 
bouts of the season.A Tartan fencer foils his way to victory
Round trip. Anywhere we go.
This Spring Break, if you and your friends 
are thinking about heading to the slopes, the 
beach or just home for a visit, Greyhound can 
take you there. For only $99 or less, round trip.
From February 15 through April 27, all you 
do is show us your college student I.D. card 
when you purchase your ticket. Your ticket will
C 1986 Greyhound Lines, Inc
then be good for travel for 15 days from the date 
of purchase.
So this Spring Break, get a real break.
Go anywhere Greyhound goes for $99 or less. 
For more information, call Greyhound.
Must present a valid college student l.D card upon purchase No other discounts apply IVketsai* nontransfcrabic and food for travel on Greyhound Lines, Inc , and other participating earners t rrain restrictions apply Offer efccnve 2/1VS6 Ota limited Not valid in Canada
kbd cotteat student I D card upca nd food for travel on Greyhound Otfcreflecov* 2/15/86 OSerUni
,_TGREYHOUND'Ana leave the driving to us:11th St. & Liberty Ave., 391-2300
gIRS, ,RINI,Y LU,HERAN CHURCH 
.riDDlIOi SnCla)
531 NlOte N-7i8 StO--t, 6vk8vCa 
.w iteiC wv8kiCg aiDtvCylf yvtpID)
ADUL, BIBLE CLASS: 9:45 Ar 
W6RSHIF SERVICE: 11:00 Ar 
SUNDAY EVENING gELL6WSHIF: c:30 
Fr vt pvODlCvg-, 535 N. N-7i88-
dHwri
REPAIRS 
ACCESSORIES 
PICK-UP RETURN 
USED "C/V1PUS CRUISERS' 
731-5604
a Ders
Ha'deS'9nTh^it,ere"C8
,oU-s e*traolina'V
m-mmm COUPON $4.00 OFF HAIRCUT Expires 3-31-86 Regular $14-16
Lewis
Mon Fri 9 to 9 Sat 9 to 5 Sun 12 to 5
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-4063
Pastor Robert Hader 683-4-440
li\ |);inii l |)i>\\li:m

---------------------------------------------------

Page 32The TartanMarch 4, 1986
Booters defeated in play-offs of annual tourney
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
West Virginia Wesleyan came away vic
torious. February 22. as the Carnegie Mellon 
Indoor Soccer Team hosted it annual tourna
ment. The hosts entered two squads in the 
tourney, but only the A" team was able to 
make it to the play-offs.
Play began at 8:30 a.m.. as the Carnegie 
Mellon A" team challenged inner-city rivals, 
the Pitt Panthers. The booters fell 2-1, to the 
Panthers, to notch their only loss in regulation 
play. Netminder Jamie Ruffing opened the con
test in his first apperarance since a hand injury, 
but was unable to compete for the remainder 
of the tourney.
The hosts got on the winning track, in their 
next match, as the A squad pounded a 5-0 
victory over California State of Pennsylvania. 
The hosts tallied early in the game, when 
graduate Neil Frink took a throw from goalie 
John Semler all the way to stun the opposing 
keeper.
Carnegie Mellon dominated the entire match, 
with scoring from all sides. Captain Charlie 
Lockhead scored his first of two goals in the 
game later in the half.
Senior John Spanos initiated the scoring in 
the second stanza, as he found the net off a re
bound. Having carried the ball down the court, 
Spanos lost it momentarily, but was able to 
recover, as the sphere rebounded off a 
California player, to Spanos waiting foot.
Lockhead followed the scoring suit, as he net
ted a picture-perfect shot from 40 feet out. The 
senoir co-captain managed to slide the shot in
to the far corner.
With only several minutes remaining in the 
period, freshman standout Mark Zoldi dropped 
a square pass to senior co-captain Alex Tomlin
son for the shot. Tomlinsons attempt was 
deflected, but the rebound found its way into 
the net.
Semler turned away six California attempts, 
in the first of his four shut-outs on the day.
The A squads next competition was
Robert Morris College. Despite repeated efforts 
throughout the first half, neither team could 
manage to hit the net. Semler looked stunning 
as he kept his teammates in the game with 
numerous diving saves.
Zoldi sparked his squad to life early in the 
second stanza, as Frink set him up with a square 
pass right in front of the goal, to put the hosts 
ahead 1-0. Frink, however, would not be 
satisfied with only an assist, and just seconds 
later netted a tally of his own.
Zoldi began the offensive drive as he dribbl
ed down the wing, around some frustrated 
Robert Morris defenders, then passed off to 
senior John Kelly, who in turn gave Frink the
andgos, but the shots just never connected 
leaving them with a 0-0 tie. Semler once again 
proved his worth, as he deflected countless Slip, 
pery Rock bullets.
With the afternoon came the first contest for 
the B squad. Taking on tough Allegheny and  
West Virginia teams, the booters fell apart at 
the outset, as they dropped both contests, 4-0
Carnegie Mellon made some head-way in it*- 
contest against Grove City as the B team final* j 
ly got on the scoreboard. The Wolverines struck 8 
first on a clean shot inside the penalty area f 
however, sophomore Kevin Jung put the home I 
squad in the match only seconds later as he I
stunned three Grove City defenders in the pro-11 
lead pass which he sent flying past the baffled cess Dribbling down the wing, Jung outdid the I
keeper.
With a 2-1 record on the morning and a 
chance at the play-offs, the booters went into 
their confrontation versus Slippery Rock with 
a win in mind.
The talent was there, as the home team 
repeatedly executed the key passes and giveA SMART WAY
TO SAVE
ATPIZZ
Simply present your student I.D. at the Pizza Hut 
restaurant located at 3610-12 Fifth Avenue, Oakland 
(across from Childrens Hospital) and well give you a 10% 
discount* on your purchase.
Restaurant Hours: Monday-Thursday 11AM-Midnight
Friday & Saturday 11AM-1AM 
Sunday 11:30AM-Midnight 
Delivery Available: Sunday-Thursday 4PMMidnight
Friday & Saturday 4PM-2AMFOR FREE DELIVERY CALL 621-2424.
Limited Delivery Area
Discount not applicable on the purchase of alcohol Not valid in combination with any other Pizza Hut  offer 
Offer expires May 31,1986 Valid only at the Pizza Hutrestaurant located at 3610-12 Fifth Avenue, Oakland
defense before letting loose to drop one in the i 
far corner. At the half, the score was locked at 
1-1.
Once again, the Wolverines tallied first, and 
once again, the booters scored in the form of J 
Jung. The netminder was unable to stop the B 
sophomores cross-court shot.
Tied at 2-2, Grove City tried for the lead, but [ 
was answered right back by freshman defender 
Scott Lyon.
Freshman Bob Stefanowicz started the drive,! 
as he crossed the sphere to Lyon who carried 
the ball for a few yards. Lyon then pushed 
sophomore Alan Mayr a lead pass, but Mayr 
was too close, so he dropped the ball back to! 
the waiting Lyon who found the back of the net| 
in one easy motion.
The B team still had a shot at the play
offs, but they had to score three or more goals! 
in their final confrontation. Unfortunately, 
Walsh outdid the hosts, shattering their play-1 
off hopes. The booters did score one goal.1 
however, at the start of the match. Mayr netted 
his only tally of the day as he sent a bullet past* 
the opposing goalie on a Doug Anderson pass,
Walsh had no chance at the play-offs, but did 
beat Carnegie Mellon 3-1 in their final outing 
of the day.
Later that evening, the A team re-appeared 
to kick-off against a hot Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania team. The match-up was an even| 
one, as the squads battled to a 0-0 tie at the 
end of the first half.
Neither team could take and hold possession, 
but IUP netted the only goal of the game 
way through the second stanza.
Senior star Alex Tomlinson had an outstan
ding day, as he pummelled the IUP keeper shot 
after shot, while Semler kept the opposition to 
only one tally as he repeatedly came up with || 
the ball. The sophomore netminder turned away, 
seven IUP attempts.
The booters will travel to Grove City 
weekend to compete in the Wolverines annualij 
tourney.
Natators drop 
Final match-up
By STEW LKVINL
Tartan Staffuriter
In their final meet before the PAC Champion j 
ships at Grove City, the Swimming Tartans 1 
a tough meet. 59-48 to Slippery Rock, dropp j 
ing to a record of 8-2.
The natators fell behind earlv as Slippy 
Rock took six of the first seven events to pul 
out a commanding 42-19 lead. All-Americanl 
Steve Francis was the sole Tartan victor earl) j 
on. winning the 50 freestyle in 22.17 seconds !
The squad fared much better in the second 
part of the meet taking four of the last six events| 
to lessen the gap. Francis led the charge back| 
with his second victory of the meet in the 
freestyle with a time of 47.54 seconds.
Other winners included Carol Freund in threel 
meter diving, with 106.20 points: Mike 
zgerald in the 200 breastroke. docking a ti^l 
of 2:21.08 seconds; and the 400 freestyle relafl 
team of I)a\e Chamberlin, Fitzgerald. Vt hi,nf!| 
Foster, and Francis, coming in at 3:22-3 J 
seconds.

---------------------------------------------------

You and your friends who love God are 
cordially urged to attend another in the 
series of free, public lectures being offered 
to this community by the members of 
First Church of Christ, Scientist; Pittsburgh.
The purpose of the lectures is to share 
specific, scientific ideas that have healed 
and uplifted mankind over the centuries. 
These ideas are helping humanity today, too
The March 4th lecturer comes from Pacific 
Palisades, California, and is a member of 
the Christian Science Board of Lectureship. 
Fay McKenzie Waldman cs, will speak on
Inside specially marked 10-pack boxes 
of 5'/4" 3M diskettes
 Sampler contains 3 free cleanings Safe and easy to use Helps prevent data loss
Plus a S2.00 rebate coupon for your next 
purchase of 3M head cleaning diskette kits.GOD'S LAW, NOT CHANCE, GOVERNS
CMU
Computer Store
The one-hour lecture will begin at 8pm at 
635 Clyde Street, Oakland, off Fifth Avenue 
Free child care and parking provided.
Come and enjoy an uplifting hour!
10 CUT LARGE PIZZA 
I & 2 LITER PEPSI

---------------------------------------------------

Page 34The TartanMarch 4, 1986
Mens hoop tames Tomcats, Bisons in undefeated weekBy STEW LEVINE
Tartan Staffiiriter
The hoopsters closed out the 1985-86 season 
with their best record in seven years by 
defeating Conference rivals Thiel and Bethany. 
Carnegie Mellon finished the season at 11-9 
(7-5 in the PAC). third in the league behind 
John Carroll and Thiel.
The Tartans ended the season on the road 
against Bethany defeating the Bisons 77-63. 
Both squads started out cold, with the visitors 
taking a 14-8 lead near the halfway mark of the 
first stanza. Bethany, however, battled back 
scoring the next eight points to go ahead 16-14.
From that point the two teams see-sawed back 
and forth, producing nine ties in the first half, 
including the 32-32 halftime score.
The second period provided more of the same
with seven more ties occurring by the midpoint 
of the half, w hen the score was knotted. 52-52. 
With eight minutes to go. however. David Bart 
and Pete Cwalina took over scoring six points
ed. which Hart Coleman converted to tallies. 
Three seconds later, Bart hit both ends of a oneand-one to put the Tartans ahead for good. 
The hoopsters were keved bv excellent
Sophomore standout Hart Coleman did his 
team proud last week as he was the only 
hoopster to be named to the second string 
All-conference team.
Coleman, a native Pittsburgher, started at 
center this past season, netting 338 points on 
the season. The second leading scorer in the 
PAC. Coleman dropped in 232 of those points 
in Conference matches. The 6' 7" sophomore 
w$s also the second highest rebounder in the
league.
Senior forward Richard Neff was honored as 
well with an Honorable Mention title. Neff had 
the forth highest field goal percentage in the
PAC. hitting 53 percent on the season.
Junior forward Pete Cwalina boasted 118 re
bounds in the Conference to put him only 25 
boards behind the leader. Cwalina was also 
forth in the league for free throws, netting 78 
percent
apiece in the next five minutes to pull Carnegie 
Mellon ahead 64-56.
Bethany tried to battle back, but at 2:33 
Bethanv's Frank Yankovich had a technical callby JAY KATZ
Tartan Staffiiriter
With two thirds of the National Basketball Association season complete, two familiar powerhouses, 
the Boston Celtics and the Los Angeles Lakers, are dominating competition.
In the past six vears. these two teams have combined for five World Championships, with the 
Lakers winning three and the Celtics two. In addition, three of those Championships were 
showdowns between the Lakers and Celtics, including the Lakers defeat of the Celtics in last 
year's title match. It appears that these two teams may battle each other once again this year.
The Celtics, led by Larry Bird, have a record of 45 wins. 11 losses, the best record of any 
team in the NBA. They hold a nine game lead over the Philadelphia 76ers in the Atlantic Division.
Bird, the NBA's Most Valuable Player for the past two years, is averaging 25.3 points and 
10.2 rebounds a game this year. Bird, who is capeable of playing either forward or guard, is 
noted for his all around play in defense, shooting, rebounding, and passing. Center Robert Parish, 
one of the top veteran centers in the league, is averaging 16.1 points and 9.2 rebounds per 
game. Dennis Johnson, who has achieved All-Star status in past seasons, handles point guard 
duties for the Celts while averaging 15.4 points per game.
The Celtics have improved their bench strength this season. Veteran center Bill W alton, acquired 
from the LA Clippers, has spelled Parish much of the season and added another dimension to 
the Celtics, a solid and reliable backup center. The Celtics have also added the aggressive Jerry 
Siching to their bench, and he has contributed significantly to the team.
Kevin McHale. considered by many to be the NBA's premier forward, has been injured since 
the All-Star break. The absence of his 22.2 points and 8.7 rebounds per game has not been 
to conspicuous thanks to the play of the sharp-shooting Scott Wedman and the extra effort of 
Bird, who averaged 30 points. 13 rebounds and seven assists during that span. With McHales 
return to the lineup last Tuesday. Boston has added strength and depth for the remainder of 
the season.
The LA Lakers own a 15*/2 game lead over Portland in the Pacific Division. Their record of 
42 wins. 15 losses is second in the NBA to only the Celtics.
This Laker team has a cast of stars contributing to that record. The ageless Kareem AbdulJabbar still shoots his famed skyhook and averages 23.6 points per game. Magic Johnson, the 
6'8" point guard, leads the league in assists with 12.7 per game and triggers the Lakers famous 
fast break. James Worthy drops in 20.2 points each game for the Laker scoring attack. Guard 
Michael Cooper, a perenial selection to the NBA s All-Defense team, adds another outside scor-v 
ing threat, shooting three point shots at a rate of 40 percent.
As of late, the Lakers have slumped. In their first 37 games, the Lakers won 31 and lost only 
six. At that point of the season, many were calling this Laker team the best in their history. In 
their last 19 games, however, the L.A.s record is 10-9. Questions are now being asked about 
what has gone wrong with the team.
Injuries to Johnson and Worthy may explain the slump. Johnson sat out several games with 
a bruised knee and is said to still be recovering from its effects. Worthy has missed games recently 
because of a bruised groin.
In the two meetings between the Celtics and the Lakers, the Celtics have been convincingly 
victorious. Many observers think the Celtics have the advantage over the Lakers this year. Those 
who take the Lakers side contend that they are just experiencing a mid-season slump and will 
resume their dominance when the slump breaks. Around the NBA, however, many teams are 
threatening these leaders.
The Philadelphia 76ers (37-21), led by Moses Malone, always seem to challenge the Celtics. 
Malone is averaging 23.9 points and 11.9 rebounds. The emergence this year of forward Charles 
Barkley (19.2 points, 11.6 rebounds per game) has taken some of the burden off Malone. Guard 
Maurice Cheeks handles most of the dribbling duties while averaging nine assists and 14.6 points 
a game. What hurts the chances of the Sixers the most is the absence of guard Andrew Toney 
who provides much of the outside shooting for the team.
The Milwaukee Bucks (40-18) boast the third best record in the NBA and are on top of the 
Central Division. Terry Cummings and Sidney Moncreif both average about 20 points a game. 
The Bucks use a solid game plan relying on the team concept. The Bucks, however, lack a domi
nant center to combat with Jabbar or Parish.
The Houston Rockets (37-20) lead the Midwest Division. Seven foot center Akeen Olajawon 
(23. \ points, 11.2 rebounds per game) in the Rockets attack. Olajawon is also third in the league 
in shot blocking. Guard John Lucas leads the Rocket offense, assisting on baskets and average 
of nine times each game and scoring 15.6 points a game. The Rockets, however, have a very 
young team and have very little playoff experience.
If * ems unlikely that any of the other teams in the NBA will be able to overthrow the Lakers 
or Celtic*. It looks like the Championship may once again pit the Lakers against the Celtics, with 
the Crown going to the team able to build the most momentum during the playoffs.
shooting from Bart and Coleman, who together 
led all scorers with 21 points apiece. Cwalina 
off the bench also did his share shooting 100 
percent from both the field and the line (6-6,
4-4) for 16 points.
On the boards, Coleman and Cwalina shared I 
top honors, snaring nine rebounds apiece, while I 
Daren Moffatt had eight.
Earlier in the week, the Tartans had a chance I 
to play spoiler and seized it beating Thiel at I 
home, 83-74. The hosts jumped out to an eara 
lv 20-13 lead on the shooting of Coleman, Bart*S 
and Richard Neff.
After two Thiel timeouts, Bart and Neff cool1 
ed off, only to have their hot hands replaced ^ 
by freshman Moffatt, who netted nine in the first I 
stanza to help the Tartans to a 43-31 lead at ? 
the half. The team shot 58.1% from the field I 
one of their best shooting halves of the season 1 
Throughout most of the second half, the lead ^ 
remained constant. However, with four minutes 1 
left, the Tomcats made their move. At 2:48 i
Senior forward Richard Neff puts up the
Thiel was able to close the gap to five on a three 
point play by Vaughn Kuzma.
Thiel never was able to get any closer as Mof
fatt and Bart hit key free throws down the 
stretch insuring the victory.
From the floor the Tartans were led by the 
shooting of their three starting big men Col
eman, Moffatt, and Neff who had 24. 23, and 
18, respectively.
Underneath it were Coleman and Cwalina 
starring with 14 boards apiece while Moffatt 
pulled down seven. Tom Franklin contributed 
with a season high nine assists.
shot.
In the final statistics, Carnegie Mellon show\ 
ed its weakness in shooting, placing sixth overall 
in team offense and free throw shooting, and I 
last in field goal shooting. The Tartans werel 
third overall in team defense.
Individual leaders for the Tartans were Col-1 
eman who was sixth in overall scoring, second! 
in PAC scoring, second in overall rebounding. I 
and fourth in PAC rebounding.
Cwalina was fourth in overall rebounding, se-1 
cond in PAC rebounding, and fourth in overall 
foul shooting. Franklin ended up in third in I 
overall and second in PAC assists.
Pute Cwalina outdoes the 1 hiel defens*

---------------------------------------------------

March 4, 1986The TartanPage 35
1986 National League West pre-season roundup
By PERRY LyIECI
Tartan Staffwriter 
The first of three articles
The 1985 season was marked with great 
achievements in baseball history, the most 
memorable coming when Pete Rose broke Ty 
Cobbs all-time hit record. The National League 
West should be filled with the same excitement 
^ain this year, as the defending champion Los 
Angeles Dodgers look to have yet another pen
nant flag flying over Dodger Stadium. Other 
teams to look at in this division which shines 
Dodger blue is the Cincinnati Reds, led by 
player-manager Pete Rose. The Reds should be 
strong enough to challenge the Dodgers, unless 
injuries throw a wrench in the rebuilt Big Red 
Machine.
SAN FRANCISCO GIANTS
The San Francisco Giants have no where to 
p but up after 1985, compiling a .233 batting 
average, the worst in the National League. The 
iiants needed to make trades over the off 
Reason, and manager Roger Craig still needs 
Hpallplayers to give San Francisco a shot at winBiing the National League West.
I The Giants had consistent production from 
jfchillie Davis, who hit .270, and Bob Brenly, 
who smashed 19 round trippers. San Francisco 
Heeds pitching help, so they traded over the off 
feason for Juan Berenguer of the Tigers. To be 
serious threat as spoiler or contender in 1986, 
ban Francisco needs bull pen help. Right hand
ed reliever Scott Garrelts had the best season 
J>f his career, as former All-Star Atlee Haminacker is still working his way back from in
jury. All in all, the Giants look to be at the botjm of the pile in 1986, but a key trade for 
lome pitching could be enough to lift the Giants 
jut of the cellar. t
ATLANTA BRAVES
The Atlanta Braves will try to rebound from 
very disappointing 1985, as new manager 
jhuck Tanner sees good potential. The Braves 
[ill he led by All-Star center fielder Dale Mur
ky. Murphy, 1983 and 1984 NL MVP, com
piled a .300 average and knocked 37 homers 
in the 1985.
E Tanner hopes that Atlanta will be a force to 
He heard from in 1986, as his pitching staff is 
HeyBruce Sutter, having an off-key year with 
iv 23 saves, has to return to the ominous force 
Iff' was in St. Louis. The Braves also hope for 
Jl good year from Bob Horner, who finally re*unded in 1985 after being injured. The im
provement was sparked by his move to first base 
ith the platooning of Chris Chambliss. The 
eakest point in the Braves game is catching. 
Cerone had at best a dismal year with his 
club, only hitting .216 and driving in only 
This prompted to acquisition of Ozzie Virgil 
Phillies in hopes that he would spark 
rong playing from his new team. Another key 
be a good year from third baseman Ken 
^rkfell, as he hit .272 in 134 games.
HOUSTON ASTROS
The Houston Astros have two many weak 
spots to seriously contend in the 1986 pennant 
chase. Nolan Ryan had a disappointing year, 
going 10-12 with a 3.80 ERA, but was able to 
become the first man in the history of baseball 
to strike out four thousand batters in a career.
In 1985, the Astros managed to finish 
seventh in team pitching and second in team 
hitting. Without a miracle year from Mike Scott, 
18-8 with a 3.29 ERA, the Astros could have 
been much worse. Hitting stars Jose Cruz and 
Denny Wailing both had excellent years at the 
plate, as they compiled .336 and .270 respec
tively. New manager Hal Lanier will have his 
hands full in 1986, trying to get new star center 
fielder Kevin Bass to run more. Laniers game 
plan is to get his whole team to run more, a key 
factor which lifted the St. Louis Cardinals to 
their heights in 1985.
///
LOS ANGELES DODGERS
The Los Angeles Dodgers are definitely the 
team to beat in 1986. Coming off of a rebuilding 
vear which brought them only two games away 
from the World Series, the Dodgers have 
enough talent and power that division winners 
are made of. Last year's team was led by Pedro 
Guerrero, who led the team in 6 categories: in
cluding batting, hits, and home runs. When 
Guerrero is hot. the team is too much to han
dle. as Guerrero turned the team around after
returning from injuries in June. Mike Marshall 
also had an outstanding season, hitting .293 and 
driving home 95 runs in 1985. The Dodgers 
expect a lot out of Marshall in 1986, along with 
late season acquisition Bill Madlock. Madlock, 
a 4-time batting champ and former Pittsburgh 
Pirate is expecting a fun summer at the hot cor
ner. But not to be excluded is Mariano Dun
can, who will pose an omnipotent threat to op
posing pitchers when he gets on base.
The Dodger pitching staff was the best in all 
of baseball in 1985, compiling a 2.96 team 
ERA, and getting 21 shutouts. Fernando Valen
zuela went 17-10 for the Dodgers, as well as 
an impressive 2.45 earned run average. Fer
nando is the leader of the staff, but has some 
of the best behind him as well. Tom Niedenfuer had a great 1985 season despite his ragg
ed performance in the playoffs. The Dodgers 
need a big year from him if they expect to make 
the World Series this vear.
CINCINNATI REDS
The Cincinnati Reds, finishing a strong se
cond in 1985, expect bigger and better things 
for 1986. One of the keys to their success in
1985 was naming future Hall of Famer Pete 
Rose as their player-manager during the 1985 
season. Rose was able to turn his ballclub 
around, and also looks for a possible challenge 
of the Dodgers in 1986. For success, Rose must 
get better pitching from his starters, a weak spot 
which destroyed their chances of seeing playoff 
action in 1985.
A key weak sign in the 1986 Reds is their 
pitching, finishing 1985 a disappointing 9th in 
ERA, posting a 3.71 mark. The usually strong 
Mario Soto had a disappointing year, going 
12-15 and posting a very high ERA of 3.58. 
If Soto had a better year on the mound, the 
Reds could have beaten the Dodgers. Rookie 
left-hander Tom Browning calmly won twenty 
games for the Reds in 85, and could have won 
the rookie-of-the-year award if Vince Coleman 
had not wandered his way into Major League 
Baseball in 1985. Cincinnati also acquired John 
Denny from the Cardinals over the winter, and 
expect good things from the former Cy Young 
award winner. The Red bullpen is quite strong, 
as Ted Power and John Franco are very tough 
pitchers to stop. If these two have another ban
ner year, the Reds could be playoff bound.
Dave Parker had a truly magnificant season 
in 1985, hitting a strong .312, while leading 
the team in 7 offensive categories. The Reds 
need the Cobra to hit over .300 again, and have 
a good season from Eddie Milner. Milner had 
a good season on the basebaths in 1985, while 
new left fielder Nick Esasky hopes to improve 
on a very impressive 1985.
SAN DIEGO PADRES
The San Diego Padres have a lot of work ahead 
to be in contention for the 1986 pennant race. 
With the recent departure of manager Dick 
Williams, the Padres have many questions to 
answer. New manager Steve Boros has a big job 
on his hands, hoping that the bullpen can dig 
the Padres out of many late inning jams.
The Padres offense was led by new leadoff 
man Gary Templeton, who hit .282 and 55 
RBIs. But the Padres were 9th in the league 
in run production, and need more runs to sup
port their strong pitching staff. Andy Hawkins 
led the Padres with 18 wins in 1985, while left
hander Dave Dravecky went 13-11. The 
bullpen was shaky during the 1985 campaign, 
as ace reliever Goose Gossage was sidelined 
with an injury.
The success of the Padres in 1986 also hinges 
on the stats compiled by star right fielder Tony 
Gwynn, and Carmello Martinez. Gwynn finish
ed 1985 with a .317 average, good enough to 
place him 4th in the league. The Padres hope 
for power hitting from Carmello Martinez, and 
Steve Garvey. Garvey is the key to the offense, 
and if he gets a hot bat in 1986, look for stars 
like Graig Nettles and Martinez to be strong in 
the power department.
To kill a robin, to find a spouse 
Spring skiing at its best
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Production Manager
As the Month of March rolls around, and vi
sions turn to the Springtime chirps of the robins 
returning from Winter havens, (and skiers ready 
to strangle those robins for stealing their 
preciously short ski season,) one must not forget 
that ski season is not yet fully at a close. Yea. 
sure, there may not be 16 inches of snow on 
the ground, but as you also may have noticed, 
it is not exactly 80 degrees out yet either.
For many skiers. Springtime brings about a 
very mellow time, since thoughts turn to put
ting that final coat of protective hot wax on vour 
bases and racking up the skis for the Summer. 
To an unfortunate many could-be avid skiers, 
a look outside revealing no snow means no ski
ing. But fear not. ski season is still here. To 
those who really know skiing. Spring is a time 
for some of the best skiing in the world.
The ability to hit the slopes in just a light 
jacket instead of your down parka rated at 90 
below that makes you look like a snow man, is 
one of the most exhilerating feelings for manv 
enthusiasts of the sport Nights in March are still 
cold enough to keep a solid deep base going 
for several more w eeks, as well as an occasional 
burst from a snow gun.
Ski resorts dread this time as much as manv 
skiers do. but this is truly a travesty. Those who 
do venture out to find the resorts with the deep 
base, they w ill find many of their dreams fulfill
ed. Finding virtually no lift-lines. uncrowded 
trails, (a few rocks @#&**#@ -hey. nothing in 
life is perfect-) and that ever present freedom 
that all skiers crave while gliding down a moun
tain (and off a glacier).
True, this is a dangerous time when some 
venture out in bathing suits and bikinis (you 
know as well as I do that minds CAN be per
suaded to wander even on skis). But. overcom
ing these severe obstacles, one can trulv enjov 
a fantastic day of skiing up even through the 
middle and end of March.
Some helpful tips to make Spring skiing more 
enjoyable:
1. Do dress warmly. Even though it looks 
warm out. in reality it can get chilly when vou
whip up speeds trying to imitate Franz Klamer. 
(Not to mention the cold snow, and the cold 
hospital beds while not making it to the bottom 
of the hill in one piece imitating Franz Klamer)
2. Wax your skis with a high rated ski wax. 
usually a red or orange rated for 30 + degrees 
will help enormously on a packed granular 
surface.
3. Remember to ski only on marked trails. 
Many a person hath wandered off into never 
never land (never get home, never get to the 
lodge to drink hot toddies, never get to spend 
time being comforted by snow bunnies back at 
the lodge... you get my point). True, that trail 
marked DANGER - NUCLEAR TEST SITE 
may look intriguing, but remember, warnings 
are posted for a reason.
4. Remember your skier's responsibility code. 
"You know, the list of do's and dont's printed 
at evenski area, ski shop, trail map and slope 
that you have always looked at but never read. 
Take time out to read it sometime (and don't 
try to tell me you have lately...) since it does 
contain some valuable pointers to make skiing 
a safe and enjoyable sport.
The most important point of all of this is to 
be safe and have fun. Skiing seems like a crazv 
fools sport to some, but to the person who can 
don those boards and navigate through the 
rocks and bodies on the hill, it is trulv a release 
from the bonds of daily tedium and an entrance 
into a life of adventure and excitement.
If you do ski. remember, it's not over yet. You 
still have a few good weeks left. If you have 
never skied before, well, then you have my 
sympthies. Get out and try it - who knows, vou 
may survive your first time out and actually get 
to love it like the rest of us crazies. It's a fan
tastic sport with great rewards, like freedom, 
fun. excitement, cute members of the opposite 
sex (i.e. potential spouses...), and not to men
tion exercise (and trust me. it is not nearh as 
much pain as Aerobics, tackle football, or all 
out kill and murder the guv on the ultimate 
frisbee field - then agam. it's not nearlv as much 
fun as sex...) .
So. while there's still some time left. LETS 
HIT THE SLOPES (preferably not face first...)

---------------------------------------------------

By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffuriter
The Carnegie Mellon hockey team clinched 
a playoff berth by beating the Dusquesne Dukes 
4-2. but also took a tough loss to Pitt.
Finishing the season with a 10-6 conference 
record (10-8 overall), the pucksters will begin 
the playoffs against Duquesne tonight at 
Lakeview Ice Palace: game time is 8 p.m.
If the Tartans can beat the Dukes again, they 
will square off against Forbes Avenue rival Pitt, 
for the right to play in the Conference Cham
pionships Saturday at 3 p.m.
The Tartans opened up the week taking on 
Pitt in a rematch which the team wanted to win. 
They came up short, however, as goals by Greg 
Timmons and Pat Merchak were not enough; 
the final score read 3-2.
Goaltender Ron Bonnasso had a good game 
in the net, but the team just was not strong 
enough without star defenseman John Barrett. 
Barrett is sitting out because of a suspension, 
but may be back for a possible rematch with 
Pitt if the Tartans can beat the Dukes again.
Carnegie Mellon was without a caoch against 
Duquesne, but John Barrett said that it was one 
of the keys to the win. Not having a coach 
around helps us to gel and blend more as a 
team." said Barrett. We all have to so much 
more thinking and judging ourselves as to what 
is happening on the ice.
Tartan goaltender Bonnasso also said the 
defense played the best game of the year, as 
they were able to hold out Duquesne defenders. 
That was clearly evidenced in the shot totals, 
as Carnegie Mellon outshot the Dukes by a 
16-8 count in the second period.
The game started out quite badly for the Tar
tans, as offensive wizard Timmons was called 
for a high stick at 3:38 of the first period. With 
only 10 seconds left in his penalty, the Dukes 
Jeff Corsello scored off a pass from Joe 
Barbara to put Dusquesne up by a score of 1-0. 
The teams skated evenly until the 12:30 mark, 
when Carnegie Mellon began to control the 
puck. Thirty seconds later, Tartan center Steve 
Desrochers was called for a boarding penalty. 
The Tartans had to skate a man down for th^
Pat Merchak challenges the goalie.
Steve Desroches vies for the puck during
rest of the period, but the penalty killing units 
kept the pucksters even going into the second 
period.
The second period took on new flavor, as the
Tartans began to skate around the Dukes more. 
At the 5:55 mark, Tartan forward Rob Katz 
took a pass from his linemate Don Heyse and 
had a one-on-none situation. Katz took full ad
vantage, putting the puck past Duquesne goalie 
Louis Rausso to tie the score.
Carnegie Mellon scored again only two and 
a half minutes later, as they peppered the Du
quesne goaltender with shots. Sean McGinn 
took a pass at the blue line from Mike Halloran 
and let loose a slap shot which deflected off a 
Duquesne defender. The puck trickled behind 
Rausso, who was blocked by a hoarde of Tar
tans and Duke who were fighting for position 
in front of the net. Carnegie Mellons defense 
tightened even more, and was able to take the 
lead into the third period.
The pucksters were not able to hold on their
a face-off.
lead, however, as Duquesne picked up the pao 
in the third period. Duke center Barbara 
a goal off a pass from defenseman Jack Glun 
to knot the game at 2-2.
At the 6:38 mark, Duquesnes Dave Bagnati 
was called for interference, that call was all the 
Tartans needed, as 8:12 into the period, thf 
pucksters Katz scored again, this time off a 
from Donny Heyse. The Tartans almost lost the 
lead again with 2:43 left in the period whei 
Bonnasso was knocked out of position, but thf 
defense was able to give him the protection lit 
needed. The Tartans added an insurance goal 
as Timmons scored to give the Tartans ani 
surmountable lead.
We needed this win badly, said Bonnasso^ 
we lost so many close ones, Pitt twice, and 
Gannon. To win a close one like this gives us 
a big lift going into the playoffs.
Thursday nights game will determine the win
ner of the South Division of the Western Penn
sylvania Collegiate Hockey Conference, who will 
take on the winner of the North Division.
Lightner tallies unprecedented 31 points
Hoopsters beat back Bisons in season finale
By JILL DORSON
Tartan Sports Editor
Capping off the season with a victory was the 
Womens Varsity Hoop squad, Saturday, 
February 22, as the squad eeked out a 74-70 
win over Conference rivals, the Bethany Bisons.
Carnegie Mellon proved rude guests 
throughout the match, as it jumped out to a 
commanding 40-26 first-half lead. Despite the 
score, the first period stats pitted the teams as 
an even match. Hitting 43 percent from the 
floor in the stanza, the hoopstres outdid their 
hosts by only two percent, while the Bisons top
ped the Tartans free throw percentage by nine 
percentage points.
The tables turned in the second stanza, as the 
Bisons outscored Carnegie Mellon 44-34, to 
threaten the visitors lead. The Tartans, however, 
were hot on the floor netting 10-of-19 attempts.
Freshman standout Lisa Lightner hit a team, 
game, and season high as she dropped in an
unprecedented 31 points. Lightner went fivefor-six at the line, while converting 59 percent 
of her field goal efforts. The freshman star was 
second in rebounds for the squad, with 11.
Freshmen Beth Virgin and Aimee Reber hit 
the double figures as well, tallying 13 points 
apiece. Virgin led her team in rebounds, also, 
grabbing down 15.
The Tartans fell victim to the Lady Cats of 
Thiel College, Tuesday, February 18, 73-59. 
The visitors came out to a fast lead, netting four 
unanswered points in the first two minutes of
the contest. The Tartans put their first mark on 
the scoreboard in the form of Reber, as she 
dropped in a shot from the line.
The Lady Cats were in the mood for a win, 
however, as they pulled ahead, 8-3 five minutes 
into the game. Back-to-back buckets by Reber 
put the home squad back into the game. Just 
after Rebers second tally, classmate Virgin was
fouled and hit both shots, to put the Tartans 
ahead 9-8.
The lead was short-lived, however, as Thiel 
came back to continuously stay at least one point 
ahead throughout the remainder of the stanza. 
The Tartans were down by 11, 43-32 at the 
half.
The second period found the hoopsters once
Freshen standout Aimee Reber goes for the net on the steal.
again battling back to find the net. Scoring was 
unevenly distributed, and though the squad con
sistently hit the net, their efforts just werenl 
enough.
Unable to outscore their guests, the Tartans 
scored 27 points in the half, to Thiels 30 
making the final score 73-59.
Freshman Reber put her best foot forward as 
she dropped in 23 points, while going 75 per 
cent from the line. Reber also led the team u 
rebounds, grabbing down 14 loose balls.
Lightner reached the double figures as well 
netting 19 tallies for her teams cause 
Classmate Virgin kept the scoring trend alivej 
dropping in 13.
Overall, the squad hit 67 percent from 
foul line, but only connected for 32 percent 
their field goal attempts. The hoopsters pull1 
down 43 >caroms.
Looking back over the season, Head Coac 
Gerri Seidl was nothing short of optimisj 
stressing that her team is young, 
motivated.
Now we have a strong base formed...O' 
past season is important and the team mein^1 
know it, she said, Theyre willing to w01 
We want to be a strong team, and we will'
Seidl also noted that weve gained qulte 
following. Our loyal fans even followed us 
Bethany. The support os fantastic, and this te< 
loves a crowd, she continued.
Looking to the future? Were competit>'e' 
she said, and growing stronger.
Tartan Sports
Pucksters dethrone Dukes, 4-2; fall prey to Panthen
