March 14, 1972
Volume 72
Number 7
CHISHOLM
Exhorting an enthusiastic audience to 
^come with me on the Chisholm trail, U.S. 
Representative Shirley Chisholm recently 
engaged in a round of energetic campaign 
oration in Oaklands Carnegie Music Hall. 
Representative Chisholm, proclaimed as 
uniquely unbought and unbossed was 
brought to Pittsburgh by the Volunteers 
for Shirley Chisholm for President. The 
March 5 Sunday evening rally, ably co-or^ dinated by gospel music radio disc jockey 
Andrea Griffin Bray, drew a large (though 
sub-capacity) crowd, compositionally di
versified, although perhaps politically unus
ual for the large number of black female 
attendees.
Convened with a prayer by the reverend 
Gail Buchwalter, the rally featured brief 
comments by politically involved local 
^ people. Youth Co-ordinator Kathleen Bonk 
urged those present to stick with Shirley, 
to be with Shirley in 76, to be with her and 
others like her in 80; while Ellie Smeal, 
the president of the South Hills Chapter of 
the National Organization for Women, joy
fully suggested that we will make her can
didacy the beginning of a beautiful habit 
Pittsburgh NAACP head Boyd Brown ad
monished the audience to convert their 
sentiments into action at the primary polls. 
Introducing local Democratic convention 
delegate candidates, Brown cautioned that 
It doesnt mean a thing if you dont vote 
for these candidates, It doesnt matter if 
you dont like these people. It matters that 
theyre for Shirley Chisholm.
The emotional tenor of the rally was 
augmented by a smattering of gospel selec
tions performed alternately by Alter How
ard directing the Young Adult Choral Un
ion and the Herron Hill Junior High Choir 
(Ask the Lord to fill our cup with love, 
till it til it overflows.), and by Gene Davis 
and the Gospel Ensemble, with both 
groups being accompanied by a spontane
ous audience hand clapping. As the Gospel 
! Ensemble rolled into a gusty rendition of 
The Age of Aquarius, (said Andrea 
Bray:Shriley Chisholm reminds us of the 
Age of Aquarius) Representative Chis
holm made her way onto the stage, and 
was greeted by a rising tumult of sustained 
applause. Moved by the spontaneous 
warmth of the ovation, Shirley Chisholm 
suggested that already the sun is begin
ning to shine in.
continued on page 16
GRASS bust
b u stso ftnrlpnt
strike;
On Thursday, February 24, twelve 
workers walked off their jobs at the Oak
land Original Hot Dog Shop. After unsuc
cessful attempting to resolve grievances 
with Sid Simon, owner of the Oakland 
shop and one in Monroeville Mall, the 
workers set up a picket to strike for a 
union.
Negotiations are in process, but to this 
date nothing has been resolved. If Original 
workers are able to unionize, it will be a 
precedent for the small stores and restaur
ants in the Oakland area which employ 
mainly students.
Workers agreed to take a lie detector 
test after Simon accuse them of stealing 
from the cash register. They requested that 
Simon also submit to the test. He refused, 
stating that he owned the place and didnt 
have to take a lie detector test.
There were sumerous grievances leading 
to the strike. Workers complained they are 
permitted no breaks, although working 
shifts are up to 13 hours long. They also 
argue that Simons hiring practices dis
criminate against blanks and women. They 
want to get free food while working. Com
plaints also include that tips are divided 
once a years, workers are forced to sign a 
statement forfeiting wages if they dont 
work at least 30 days and they receive no 
extra pay for overtime work.
The picket line has been up for over two 
weeks. During that time there have been 
incidents of violence against the workers. 
One evening the owners son struck one 
picketer who was arrested when he 
attempted to defend himself. The next 
night the owners son hit another picketer 
in the face twice. The picketer did not 
return the blows, but later pressed charged 
against the assailant. The charges were 
dropped.
Judy Narosny
The National Organization for the 
Reform of Marijuana Laws (NORML) 
recently released a survey given to 
presidential candidates concerning the laws 
regulating marijuana. The poll was given to 
thirteen of the candidates, and only three 
failed to respond; Governor George 
Wallace, Repr. Wilbur Mills and Senator 
Henry Jackson.
The poll is based on the belief that 
anti-marijuana forces see grass as a serious 
threat to society, while the other side views 
the severe criminal penalties surrounding 
the weed as the main danger. NORML feels 
that the candidates willingness to discuss 
the subject is influenced by the addition of
25,675,000 new voters between the ages of 
eighteen and twenty-four, 40 percent of 
whom have used marijuana.
The first question proposed by NORML 
concerns that elimination of criminal 
penalties for the simple possession of 
marijuana for personal use. Chisholm, 
Hartke, Lindsay, McCarthy, McGovern and 
Spock  definitely favored this approach, 
and Humphrey, McCloskey and Muskie 
indicated that they leaned heavily in that 
direction. Only one candidate, Mayor 
Yorty, opposed the proposal.
It was also asked in the candidates 
would support decriminalization if it was 
recommended by the Presidents 
Commission on Marijuana and Drug Abuse 
in their March 22 report. Chisholm, 
Hartke, Lindsay, McCarthy, Muskie and 
Spock replied yes, while McGovern was 
favorable and Yorty again was opposed. 
Humphrey and McCloskey failed to 
respond to this question.
The final question on the NORML poll, 
concerned the government regulation of 
marijuana similar to the licensing system 
used for alcohol. Chisholm, McCarthy and 
Spock said yes, McGovern was favorable, 
and the remaining six candidates opposed 
such a change.
Concerning President Nixons position, 
NORML says that he has publicly stated 
that he will oppose a commission 
recommendation calling for legalization. 
However, he has left his mind open to the 
possibility of decriminalization.
NORML is a Washington, DC based 
group, and can be contacted at 1237 22nd 
Street NW, Washington, DC 20037.str
Many students have complained to the 
Skibo Information Desk and Food Service 
Personnel about dogs being permitted into 
the TARTAN GRILL and the cafeteria 
areas.
Dogs are not allowed in Food Service 
Areas because of sanitation regulations. Ef
forts have been made to contact the dog 
owners to please keep their dogs outside. 
Signs have been put up around the areas 
asking that dogs be left outside.
If the problem continues, authorities 
such as Police Animal Control will have to 
be called in to remove the dogs.
A CMU student and one non-student 
were arrested Friday night, March 3, in the 
students dormitory room for possession in 
violation of the Dangerous Drug and 
Cosmetic Act. The arrest was a result of a 
search warrant issued for that students 
room. The CMU student was released on 
bail the following morning.
Though refusing to release further de
tails, an Administration source reported 
that the Pittsburgh Police did not notify 
Warner Hall or Campus Security prior to 
making the search and arrests. This source 
stressed that the police need not notify the 
Administration, and that Warner Hall can 
not protect students from the law. A 
second source confirmed this information 
and added that more students should be 
aware that University grounds are not off 
limits to the police.same
Following careful study of the 
1971-1972 food service and housing oper
ations, and analysis of the 1972-1973 
projections in those areas, Auxiliary Ser
vice Committee announces that there will 
be no increase in food service and housing 
rates through 1972-1973.
This action was taken based on rec
ommendations of the Director of Food 
Service, Mr. George Prilllaman, and the 
Housing Manager, Mr. David Ginevan. 
Maintenance of the current rates is possible 
because of some new management prac
tices, especially in areas such as purchasing 
and scheduling, and because of expectation 
of continued improvement in the next aca
demic year.
With the continued cooperation of the 
students served by these facilities, we are 
confident that we will enjoy a successful 
year in 1972-1973. It is an especially pleas
ant task to announce this decision in light 
of the Universitys position of not increas
ing tuition for the next academic year.
The food contract rates for 1972-1973 
will be;
Undergraduate Women
Seven day-21 meal contract $330 
Five day-15 meal contract $310 
Five day-10 meal contract (lunch & 
dinner) $300
Undergraduate Men
Seven day-21 meal contract $350 
Five day-15 meal contract $330 
Five day-10 meal contract (lunch & 
dinner) $300
Food service plans to carry out exper
iments in contract food service suggested 
by the Student Food Service Committee to 
respond as appropriate to changes in oper
ating costs and demand.
Housing rates range from $250-$440. 
Detailed information on specific rates is 
available from the Housing Office.
The only exception to the above policy 
is fraternity housing where there sill be a 
scheduled $25/semester increase this year 
to help meet debt service obligations. This 
increase was scheduled to go into effect at 
the end of the second year of occupancy of 
the facilities.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 14, 1972
editors note
Spring is on its way. Time for changes. New people. New ideas. Student 
government elections are this week. Within a month, the TARTAN will be 
electing its editor-in-chief and on April 18, a new staff will begin its term.
If you are interested in working on the TARTAN for the remainder of 
the year, or are thinking about it for next year, come on over. Wed like to 
build up an experienced staff for next fall. Perhaps youre interested in an 
editorial position. Come work with use until elections in April to see if 
you like it.
As*has been said before, the TARTAN cant function without people 
representing all areas of the campus. Theres only.so much we can do-and 
we need you to do the rest!
On Thursday April 6, well be electing a new editor. If youd like to be 
a part of that election, well be expecting you in room 50 sometime 
before vacation.
Letters:
Editor:
Of all the methods of expression open 
to todays student, 1 find the silver screen 
the most interesting and enlightening. Mo
tion pictures are visual records which com
municate statements of reality and fantasy 
in a most unique way. There is so much to 
be learned about film and so much to be 
learned from film.
I am continually amazed that CMU lags 
behind the rest of this countrys uni
versities in realizing the exciting possibili
ties and potential of undergraduate film 
education. We are truly behind the times.
In the last few years, several faculty 
members from different university depart
ments have been trying to move forward in 
drawing upon the existing intellectual and 
artistic interest of students in film. The 
English department has offered a couple of 
courses-one in film aesthetics last year 
taught by Concetta Greenfield, and a 
course in film art being taught this term by 
William McTaggart-and plans a repeat of 
Greenfields course next year, plus a new 
course on literature-into-film to be taught 
by Beekman Cottrell. E.A. McCreary 
taught a course in film and history for the 
History Department last semester, showing 
how film is a research, teaching, and in
formation source. McCreary has also deve
loped with Jim Rosenberg, Akram Midani, 
and Leon Katz, a course for the Drama 
department dealing with the chronological 
evolution of film as an art form and as a 
recorder of values and attitudes. Leon 
Katz, John Stephenson, Robert Lepper, 
John Paskiewica, and Sharon Keaton have 
worked individually with CMLPs young 
filmmakers. Don Yenick of the Design 
department has a course this term in ani
mation and cinematography. There is a 
hard core of talented and knowledgeable 
faculty at work in these courses, but as of 
now there is no cohesiveness to the courses 
and all areas of student interest are not 
represented in them. There needs to be 
more. Much more.
The present film book holdings in the 
library are a miserable collection. The 
English Department is trying gallantly to 
fill the gap, but so far the library itself has 
made few sensible moves on its own.
Books arens enough, anyway. We need 
a film library. Several years ago, Film Arts 
used its surplus funds to buy some films, 
but the president of the group took them 
with him when he graduated. If the uni
versity refuses to allocate funds to house 
films in the library, then I suggest Film 
Arts and the AB film group use its profits 
to buy them, putting them under proper 
control in the library to prevent theft and 
to assure students the same ease in seeing 
films as there now is in obtaining books.
Perhaps it is too soon to hope for an 
actual Film department at CMU, but the 
students are ready for it and, as we can see, 
we have the faculty. It is time to begin 
taking more of the right steps in the right 
direction. Let the students begin.
Richard Braverman
Editor:
I read each TARTAN religiously to find 
out which free movies are coming to 
Doherty Hall. Please keep up that column 
of the newspaper. I have already purchased 
a six pack of beer, a bottle each of Spanata 
and Boones _F,grm Apple Wine, a bag of 
peanuts, and a pack of low tar cigarettes. It 
is the greatest place to go to flick my lit 
butts against the walls while the movie is 
on, to see the sparks explode like 
fire-works. It gives me a superior feeling to 
know that I have a captive audience to 
watch me. After Ive drunk the beer,I like 
to roll the cans down the concrete steps. It 
makes a clattering sound. I used to roll 
wine bottles down the aisles but they 
break, and stop...beer cans are best, or even 
soda cans, but I like beer cans better than 
soda ones, because Im a fraternity man, 
and we drink beer and act grown up. I eat 
the peanuts and crush the shalls with my 
feet. The wine is a good topper for the 
peanuts, it makes me giggle, and also cools 
my throat after a joint. I love to swill the 
wine right from the bottle like a grown up. 
When I come into the room before the 
movie starts, I wave like crazy to attract 
attention to myself so people look at me. I 
always wear my fraternity jacket, or my 
hockey jersey, and an old hat over my hair, 
and jeans with patches in the, so that other 
students know Im proud, and also a man. 
One thing really bugs me, and that is the 
abuse I have to take from som jag-offs who 
shout for me to quiet down during the 
movie. If they dont like it they can leave! 
Thats how I feel; the cheap bastards only 
go because theyre free. Im just having a 
little fun. Some day, God willing, Ill be 
running this crummy country and getting it 
together...me and my ffet brothers. Were 
going to build pyramids out of beer cans 
on our desks. I may even be president some 
day,and as I accidently press the button, 
Ill swig my bottle of Boones Farm apple 
Wine while the pretty blue smoke from my 
joint haloes the bottle.
I believe in ecology, and peace in 
Vietnam, and power to the people, and 
brotherhood and humanity, and whatever 
is currently popular and anti-government. 
Oh I almost forgot, I believe in PIRG 
also..I got a button on my jacket to prove 
it.
Joe Harsch 
H&SS
PS. Im going to read this in the TARTAN, 
then make pretty confetti out of it to 
throw around the campus.
Editor:
A certain movie reviewer wasnt paying 
attention. There are only two balloons at 
the end of Theres Always Vanilla. I 
should know. Also, he missed some won
derful symbolism involving mustard.
Otherwise, a fairly accurate review.
Stan Usher
Editor:
We, the Black students at Carnegie-Mellon University, are not necessarily replying 
to the statements made in the recent issue 
of the Alumni News. However, we are re
sponding to the statements made about the 
allocation of funds for Black and other 
minority students.
Historically, non-progressive thinkers 
even as far back as Reconstruction, have 
not developed the understanding to realize 
the true potential in the forward progress 
of any social system as a whole. For any 
one group to continually move forward all 
factions of the system must move. In order 
for this progression to occur the educated 
non-thinkers in our system should realize 
the potential education advancement in any society; repression is not the answer.
The increasing cost of an education re
quires the university to establish a system 
to make it possible for admitted students 
to survive regardless of family financial sta
tus. All students desiring financial aid go 
through the same procedure (parents Con
fidential Statement and applying through 
CMU). To take the position against finan
cial aid to minority groups is to be against 
all financial aid.
We, the members of the Black commu
nity on CMU, have only tried briefly to 
expose the total feeling of not only Black 
students but minority students in general. 
We feel that it is incumbent upon any 
group of educated individuals to realize the 
total value of education. We have reached 
this realization and are about the business 
of obtaining an education.
SPIRIT
Editor:
Once again, concern runs rampant 
among the H&SS student body. In fact, I 
suspect that the rampant concern is second 
only to the rampant apathy. Do the mutterers not know, or simply not care, that 
they are represented on the College coun
cil? Again, in fact, that student representa
tives comprise over one third of that body?
The student representatives must 
shoulder some of the blame for not zea
lously attempting to communicate with 
their constituencies. But the blame lies also 
with the constituents.
1. Did you know that Council meetings 
are open unless a closed session is called 
for? Meetings will be held on March 15 and
22 at 2:30 PM in MM 302. The Goals 
committee will be present at the first meet
ing, and the Evaluation Committee for 
grading will be at the second. Further 
meetings this year will be announced in the 
TARTAN Announcements section.
2. We, the representatives, have been 
criticized for not sufficiently advertising 
the town meetings we have called. Notices 
for the last meeting (attended by some 30 
people) appeared twice in the tARTAN 
and were placed in various campus build
ings. I feel that blame must lie with those 
who are not sufficiently motivated to pick 
up a TARTAN or read a bulletin board. 
Henceforth, I will place an announcement 
for any meetings, hearings, etc. in the 
TARTAN [Announcement section. Minutes 
of Council meetings will also be published 
in the TARTAN. Anyone concerned 
should make a point of checking the TAR
TAN once a week.
3. There will be a meeting for anyone 
concerned about the existing Modern Lan
guage requirement on Thursday, March 16, 
at 4:30 in Room 45 Skibo. Anyone unable 
to attend should send comments to me, in 
care of the TARTAN.
Steve Jurman
Editor:
I have followed with some disquiet the 
drift of recent discussions about grading in 
H&SS. It would seem to the casual obser
ver that H&SS may once more be about to 
base a policy decision on a sense that 
Someone out there says we are not meet
ing THEIR standards (in this case gradu
ate schools reluctant to admit students 
graded on an honors/pass pattern). Its as 
though our decision-method were to find 
out what the status quo is and then adjust 
to it as quickly as possible. An interesting 
turnabout for a college that only a couple 
of years ago was discussing the philosophy 
of grading as part of an innovative, experi
mental program.
But then strange things are happening 
all over. Two years ago students were agita
ting against the new college in H&SS be
cause they thought its program too rigid. 
Now, under the threat of practicalities, 
they apparently want rigid, scale grading. 
Good old Student Power.
' Sage observation aside, I do have a seri
ous proposal to make about grading in 
H&SS.
I think students and faculty were right a 
couple of years ago when they argued that 
AB-C scale grading is too uniformist, too 
quantifying, too delimited, too competitive 
to apply well to many of our goals in 
H&SS. What is needed is a grading policy 
that will recognize on the one hand the 
frequently subjective open-ended nature of 
our work, and on the other satisfy the 
statistical cravings of the graduate school 
machine.
I propose such a policy. I call it Modi
fied Anarchy (MAN). And I am quite seri
ous about it.
There are two features to the plan:
1) We announce that in the future there 
will be no uniform grading system applied 
across the college to each and every course. 
Every teacher will grade his courses-perhaps in consultation with his students-as he 
deems appropriateA, B, C, or P, Modified 
Mastery, or whatever. Such a policy would 
be to turn grading into a fully accountable 
teaching instrument, acknowledge that dif
ferent courses require different kinds of 
learning, and that both teachers and stu
dents will find it valuable to test them
selves with various kinds of measures.
2) In order to satisfy grad school practi
calities, we then go to a class-rank system. 
At the end of each year, we send out a list, 
of majors, grouped by class year, to the., 
faculty of the major department and ask 
them to rank it| order of distinction th# 
good to excefiiift'iT&jcifs they have had in 
class that year. From this data, we can then 
make an approximate class-rank masterlit 
that allows us to specify which of the 
upper two-quarters of his class a student 
placed in. (I should point out that this is 
basically the same nomination process that 
we now use for such things as scholarships 
or honor societies.)
So, the transcript that would go out to 
the world for a student would a)list the 
courses hes taken, and for the record, not 
the odd assortment of grades hes received; 
b) provide the grad schools with their date: 
In his sophomore year, so-and-so ranked 
in the upper 25 per cent among sophomore # 
English majors, in his junior year in the 
upper 50 per cent, etc.
Doubtless there are loose ends to this 
scheme, details that need discussion. But I 
suggest that this pattern has the virtues of 
being simple, flexible, and practical. It ob
viates the uniformist rigidities of old-style 
grading while providing computable data to 
those who wish to process our graduates.
David P. Demarest, Jr.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 14, 1972 - THE TARTANPage 3
Editor:
(To whom it may concern:)
Sometime on Tuesday, February 22, 
you gained access to one of the rooms of 
the modern physics lab on the third floor 
of Doherty hall, and then proceeded to 
ripoff several essential components of the 
optical pumping experiment.
This theft has made it impossible to 
continue to continue the experiment, 
depriving 30 of us of the opportunity to 
complete that part of the course work.
We need the equipment back, if you are 
willing to return it, please contact Jim 
Matey at 687-7678 or 682-8636. No 
questions will be asked.
Members of the Junior 
Physics class
Announcements:films**
^ Editor-in-Chief.............................Jan Rosen
News Co-Editors..........................Frank Cox
Jeff Ganek
Politics..........................................Jim Slivka
Features Editor............................Tom Davis
Sports Editor................................Jude Heller
Graphics...................................Mark Seymour
Paste-up......................................Arnold Sonn
Photography Editor.................Neal Binstock
* Business Manager........................Alice Bright
Entertainment....................Stephen Saunders
Julio Vera
News Staff...............................John Agatston
Anne Friedman, Mina Gerall 
Steve Jurman, Jon Manon 
Betsy Piez, Bob Stem
Features Staff........Leslie Bram, Marc Field
Walter Koehler
* Terence N. Palso
Sports Staff.............Chuck Bond, Dan Buis
Lauren Hutton, Allen Kohan 
Jim Powers, Jon Swierzewski
Photography Staff.....................Elliot Arons
Jay Caras, Jim Hermann 
Roger Lawrence, Ed Levine
Copy Staff.................................Leslie Bram
Sandy Preuhs, Suzanne Bozzo
^ Advertising..............................Chris Sanders
Mike Swartzlander
Published every Tuesday during the aca
demic year at Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 15213. Editorial 
and Business offices in Skibo 50, Car
negie-Mellon University, Telephone (412) 
682-4577
Personals:
S.J.K.:This is the last time. Never again! 
Sincerest sympathy on the loss of tonsils. 
Seeze yeezou eezon Theezursdeezay. Love, 
Teezabbeezy.5
Mr. Chorba: You have a secret admirer!
Will the person or persons who keep letting
Barney into the Grill and feeding him 
please stop. The management is on my 
back about it and I don't want him there 
either-His owner, Bill Schuler.
Free texifan uir Forfe, Where are you?
CMU Algerian Mercenary Society. Brandi, 
Rau, Muschweck, Klopack, Naughton-Oberleutenant.
Dear Ced: Good lufk Friday, o know you
will do well. Love in Him, u Friend.
so S.E.: Can't hafk C.o.s.-sry H&SS. $ $ $
$ Call 444. Purple Avenger.
so N.s.: Sufk harder-it might help. Purple
Avenger.
she suRsuN needs people interested in
layout and paste up to start work immed
iately! Wages aren't so good (nothing!), the 
hours are long, but the company is great?
ATTENTION TARTAN STAFF: Meeting, 
Wednesday March 15th at 4:30. Editors 
must attend. Anyone interested in writing 
for the paper, please come on down! Room 
50, Skibo.
Do you have slides or films depifting any
aspect of CMU or Pittsburgh life? If you do 
and you would be willing to loan any of 
these materials for a Freshman Orientation 
Multimedia Production currently being de
veloped, please leave them, with your name 
and address, at Bob McCurdy's office in 
Skibo by March 23. They are desperately 
needed. All possible care will be taken with 
all submitted materials and those that are 
not used will be returned. And assistance 
you can give will be greatly appreciated.
CtU film-makers and friends: shere will
be a general meeting of all persons interest
ed in participating in this spring's 3rd An
nual CMU Film Festival of April 14 and 
15. We will meet Tuesday, March 21 in 
Skibo rm. 39 at 4:30 pm. to discuss cur
rent developments concerning the program. 
It is important that all involved attend.
Fredrif Hand, flassifal guitarist, will be a
guest at CMU Thursday, March 16. He will 
present a workshop at the Faculty Lounge 
in Skibo at 3 pm. and will appear in con
cert in the Wherrett Room in Skibo at 8 
pm. Both events are free and open to the 
public.
The twenty-year-old guitarist is current
ly a student at Mannes College of Music in 
New York working toward a bachelor of 
science degree under the direction of Leo
nid Bolotine. He has performed as soloist 
on NBC television and has twice toured the 
United States and Canada, including a con
cert at Carnegie Lecture Hall in Pittsburgh.
Mr. Hand's most recent credit is a re
cording of a "Suite for Double-String-Bass 
and Guitar" by Alec Wilder with 
double-bassist, Gary Karr.
shere will be H&SS College Counfil meet
ings on March 15 and 22. Both meetings 
will be at 2:30 pm. in MM302. On the 15th 
the Goals Committee will be present. On 
the 22nd the Evaluation Committee on 
Grading will be present. These meetings are 
open.
todern Language Requirement? shere will
be a meeting for anyone concerned about 
the H&SS Modern Language requirement 
on Thursday, March 16, at 4:30 pm. in 
Room 45, Skibo.
The Activities Board is a student organi 
zation designed to serve the needs of the 
campus community. In order to continue 
this role, the Board is trying to bring in 
new members. This will make the Board 
more responsive to the desires of the 
campus community. The Activities Board 
is looking for membership that is as varied 
as the campus it is to represent. Creative 
and imaginative people are needed on all 
committees, especially lectures and special 
events.
The Activities Board will have a general 
meeting on Wednesday, March 15th at 
4:30 p.m. in Room 33 Skibo. All interest
ed persons are urged to attend.
she Future Staff is in need of fompetent
writers. If you think that you can write 
Future articles, then we need you. If you 
don't think you can write, submit some
thing and let me be the judge. I am without 
sin so I feel quite able to cast the first 
stone. Drop by the TARTAN office and 
leave your name, or an article, story, or 
any of the above for Mario Weinberger. 
That is all. Thank you for your time. Beep.
she U.u.C.t. Gospel Singers will present a
musical program sponsored by Cameron 
Choir on Wednesday, March 15 at 8:00 
pm. The performance will be held at Cal
vary Episcopal Church located on Shady 
and Walnut Streets. The singers will have 
the musical accompaniment of bass, guitar, 
drums, maracas, and organ. The public is 
invited and thre Is no change for admis
sion.
Jewelery and sfulpture by metal frafts stu
dents at CMU will be on view at the CMU 
Students' Gallery through March 15. 
Sketches and photographs of their work 
will also be included in the exhibit.
The Gallery which is open to the public 
is at 5200 Forbes Avenue. The hours are 
Monday through Friday 11 am. to 8 pm. 
and Saturday and Sunday 11 am. to 6 pm.
Classified Ads:
Swinger Camera, $5; K&E 12" Dedlon
Slide Rule, $17; 3" reel Tape Recorder, $7. 
682-8823. Ask for Tim.
Compaft Refrigerators and lightweight bi
cycles for rent-by the month or semester, 
reasonable rates. Call 279-7951 after 6 pm.
Wanted:Campus Representative or Organi
zation to Earn High Commissions selling 
ski trips, island flings, flights to Europe, 
etc. Call or write National Student Travel 
Services, 2025 Walnut Street Philadelphia. 
Pa. 19103,215-561-2939.
1967 uustin Healey 3000  good body,
mechanically excelfcnt, new Michelins, 
extras, inspected 1* asking $1350. Call 
364-9070.
sranslations: Frenfh
phone: 391-9225.
to English. seleHOUSEMATE WANTED, own bedroom, 
Furnished $55/mo. plus utilities, 4/1 - 8/5 
(squirrel Hill) 521-0556.
Wanted to sublet: one-bedroom furnished
apartment for June, July and, perhaps, 
August. Write Bob hiouck, 5316 So. Dor
chester, no. 415, Chicago, Illinois, 60635 
before March 17.
Spare time modeling, assignments available
in promotional, fashion, and photographic 
areas. Experience unnecessary. Top sala
ries. Write A&R Associates, Box 7220, 
Oakland Station, Pittsburgh, Penna. 15213. 
i
Free Lanfe unalysis. Servifes indude re
search design, sampling, questionnaire con
struction, data processing, statistical analy
sis, report. Telephone^: G&1-9225.
Free male kitten. 521-8688.
CutPUS
THROUGH A GLASS DARKLY. Directed 
by Ingmar Bergman. Film Arts. Thursday, 
March 16. 4:30, 7:00, 9:30 pm. Porter Hall 
100. Admission: Film Arts Ticket.
WINTER LIGHT. Directed by Ingmar 
Bergman. Activities Board. Friday, March
17. 7:00, 9:00 pm. Porter Hall 100. Admis
sion: $.50 with AB Film Card.
SILENCE. Directed by Ingmar Bergman. 
Activities Board. Saturday, March 18. 
7:00, 9:00 pm. Porter Hall 100. Admis
sion: $.50 with AB Film Card.
TELL THEM WILLIE BOY IS HERE. 
MDC. Saturday, March 18. 5:30, 8:00, 
10:30 pm. Doherty Hall 2210. Free.
MONIKA. Directed by Ingmar Bergman. 
Activities Board. Sunday, March 19. 7:00, 
9:00 pm. Porter Hall 100. Admission $.50 
with AB Film Card.
Poss
QUEEN OF SPADES. UCIS. Wednesday, 
March 15. 8:30 pm. 120 Common Facili
ties. Free.
BIG DEAL ON MADONNA STREET. 
Pangborn Film Club. Thursday, March 16. 
8:15 pm. 120 Common Facilities. Admis
sion: $.50.
SANJURO. Pangborn Film Club. Saturday, 
March 18. 7:00, 9:30 pm. 120 Common 
Facilities. Admission: $.75.
COttUNosY
FARENHEIT 451. Community College. 
Student Activities. Friday, March 17. 7:00 
pm. Student Cafeteria. Admission: Student 
ID.
BELLE OF THE 90's. Starring Mae West. 
Oakland Co-op. Friday, March 17. 7:00, 
9:00 pm. Admission: $1.00.
I LIVE IN FEAR. Friends Meeting House. 
Sunday, March 19. 2:30 pm. Free.
START THE REVOLUTION WITHOUT 
ME. Duquesne University. Student Activ
ities. Friday, March 17 and Saturday, 
March 18. 8:00 pm. Mellon Hall. Admis
sion: Student ID.
IN FLANDERS. Carnegie 
Sunday, March 19. 7:30 pm.
CARNIVAL 
Lecture Hall. 
Free.
sELEVoSoON
BETWEEN TIME AND TIMBUKTU. A 
Space Fantasy by Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. 
Special of the Week. Channel 13. Saturday, 
March 18. 2:30 pm.
INTIMATE LIGHTING. Directed by Ivan 
Passer. Film Odyssey. Friday, March 17. 
8:30 pm. on Channel 16 and Saturday, 
March 18, 8:00 pm. on Channel 13.
THE TENTH VICTIM and THE GLASS 
TOMB. Chiller Theater. Saturday, March
18. 11:30 pm. Channel 11.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 14, 1972
Music
Nancy Evans
The Music Department of Fine Arts is 
small in comparison to others. However, it 
is a very close department. Its very easy 
for upperclassmen to meet and know un
derclassmen, and vice versa. The Depart
ment has a student council consisting of 
President, Vice president, Secretary, and 2 
representatives from each class. They are 
the bridge between the faculty and the 
students. Theyre working hard to improve 
things, but as all CMU students know, 
change comes slowly.
The department offers three options for 
undergrads: performance, composition, or 
education. Education is a five year pro
gram. (If grades and performance level are 
high, the fifth year can be towards grad
uate credit.) In the undergraduate school, 
one can continue for education degrees, 
take an opera option, or continue compos
ing. For those choosing opera, workshops 
and performances have been set up in con
junction with the Pittsburgh Opera Com
pany.
A new program was started this year for 
non-music majors. On Saturday afternoon, 
for a nominal fee, one can take lessons in 
almost any instrument, including voice, for 
credit.
There are also courses which are open to 
non-music majors: chorus, band, orchestra, 
harmony, and History of Music are a few 
of the many exciting courses which are 
taught up on the mezzanine of Fine Arts. 
If you have nothing else to do, bop on over 
and jam, the Music Department always wel
comes visitors.
Two weeks ago in P&S News, the P&S 
Goals Committee was introduced, along 
with some of the general aims for improv
ing facilities and programs in the depart
ment. Since then, some exciting develop
ments have been taking place. A committee 
headed by Harry Holland, with Herbert 
Olds and Douglas Pickering, are assembling 
a departmental brochure for promotional 
and informative purposes. Photographs of 
student work and student and faculty at 
work will be included, all representating 
the culmination of work to date, and illus
trative of the departments goals and philo
sophy.
The Goals Committee is also restructur
ing the freshman foundation courses parti
cularly in the area of design. Understanding 
of design elements is important in all media 
in P&S, so it is necessary for every student 
to have a comprehensive backround in 
design. The proposed program provides ex
perience in six different areas of design 
during the course of a year.
Now for a few important news briefs:
The Metalcrafts Lab has been a bustling 
construction area for display cases to be 
used in this weeks metalcrafts show at the 
CMU Student Gallery.Many students have 
worked together on this project to create 
an interesting and heartening scene.
Bruce Carter, P&S Professor of Printmaking and Drawing, has been invited as 
one of six Americans to show prints in the 
Second International Triennial Exhibition 
of Contemporary Xylography (That last 
mouthful means printing woodcuts!). Pro
fessor Carter is currently in the VA Hospi
tal, undergoing surgery.
Last but not least, Boris Dubchenko, 
P&S Professor of Ceramics and Glassblowing, is going to England during spring break 
for a lecture tour.
way
Judy Narosny
Last Tuesday in Breed Hall, Professor 
Austin Wright gave a lecture on William 
Congreves play, THE WAY OF THE 
WORLD, the drama departments most re
cent mainstage endeavor. The lecture is an 
annual presentation of the English Depart
ment to introduce a major CMU pro
duction.
William Congreve lived in the seven
teenth century and wrote Restoration co
medy with a difference. Professor Wright 
tells us that the plot involve the struggle 
between two pairs of adulterers for the 
possession of three legacies, in a world 
based on inherited wealth and carnal plea
sures.
The characters of the play are what Pro
fessor Wrigh^ termed^an actors delight. 
The cast includes not only a cad and a 
sweet young thing described as a morally 
untidy lady, but also a dowager given the 
title of an antidote to desire.
THE WAY OF THE WORLD, which 
will play through March 19 in the CFA 
theatre,is also a play with a moral. As one 
of the characters proclaims, Money alone 
would enable him to bustle along through 
the ways of love and this world.hAnne FriVissnne'Friedman 
The number of applicants to the College 
of Humanities and Social Sciences are up 
10% this year. Bill Elliott, director of ad
missions, states that one of the reasons is 
the recognition of the gaining maturity of 
the college. The other reason he stated is a 
result of the nationwide trends of college 
applicants this year. Admissions offices are 
faced with adapting themselves to those 
trends. The majority of people applying 
to colleges across the country want an ur
ban university as opposed to a small or 
isolated liberal arts college. Carnegie-Mellon fits the description of this years popu
lar school.Mobility of schools is another 
trend which has affected admissions. The 
office has changed its system in order to 
accomodate the many transfer students. 
The office now makes it possible for the 
transfer student to know what his status 
will be before his acceptance, thus making 
it easier on transfer students.
The adaptability and hard work of the 
admissions office is reflected in the 10% 
increase in the number of H&SS applicants.
COME FLY WITH US!
taking Summer Plans? Want to Fly?
WHY NOT AN AVIATION SUMMER?
Here's a full-time program for 2 months to befome a 
lifensed private pilot. Comprehensive training. Youll live 
at Keene State College and fly at Dillant-Hopkins uirport. 
Serious stuff. Challenging. Rewarding. Fun. ot may be for 
YOU! uges 17-24. Write us.
SUMMER WINGS
Old serminal Building 
Keene uirport, Keene NH 03431
SCOTTY'S
391 FORKS uVENUo 
7919 PENN uVENUE 
and ROUsE o, 
NORsH Of EsNu
OPEN TO 
SERVE YOU 24 HOURS A DAY
Between Classes 
or at Study Break
dnderthistle 
hand knitting yarns
812 ivy street 
shadyside
GoRLS . . .
uRE YOU LOOKoNG FOR u SUttER 
COUNSELOR POSosoON?
upplifants are now being fonsid
ered for the 1972 famp season. tust 
be able to teafh one of the follow
ing: Piano uffompanist and group 
singing, urfhery, sennis, srampo
line, Cheerleading, Riflery, Sfouting 
and Nature Study, u. R. C. Swim
ming onstruftor, Lakefront onstruftor. 
WRosE CutP DoRECsOR 
2409 Shelleydale Drive 
Baltimore, td. 21209
If You Want A Tartan, 
The Tartan Wants You!
interested in:
? NEWSREPORsoNG?
A REVoEWS?
A FEusURES?
A DESoGN and LuY?
COtE oN ROOt 50 SKoBO 
tartan
Anyone intersted in writing news 
articles for the Tartan, especially 
members of ClT, MIS, SPIRIT and 
the College of Fine Arts, please 
contact Frank Cox, Tartan Office, 
Skibo Room 50. Please leave name 
and telephone number.
*v/a

---------------------------------------------------

suesday, March 14, 1972  THE TARTAN  Page 5
Jim Slivka
To no ones surprise, Nixon and Muskie 
won in the New Hampshire primary. How
ever, it is not certain that Muskie won. 
Although he was the top vote getter, he did 
not emerge with a clear majority, 50 per^ cent of the vote. Nixon, too, did not do as 
well as expected, even though he pulled a 
strong 69 percent. In retrospect, Nixon re
ceived 78 percent in the 1968 primary. But 
the big surprise of Tuesdays vote was 
George McGoverns strong showing in Muskies backyard. Presenting himself as a 
definite challenger, McGovern received 37 
percent of the vote.
^ Senator McGoverns strong showing was 
credited to several factors. Pierre Salinger, 
a McGovern coordinator and press secreta
ry to the late President Kennedy, said, 
Senator McGovern is past the time of a 
one issue candidate. Salinger went on to 
note that McGoverns economic philoso
phies and ideologies concerning the work
ing classes aided him and concluded by 
^ saying,McGovern is capable of a RFK coa
lition The candidate, obviously joyous 
over the results, proclaimed,I have taken 
great heart from this election. It demon
strates that the shallow cynicism that 
young people were through with politics 
and that old politics would prevail was 
wrong. McGovern then went on to discuss 
how he feels that the RFK or Gene McCar^ thy type coalition is being formed and hin
ted that it will be as successful as those 
were. McGovern, upon being questioned as 
to whether HG had dented Muskie or not, 
replied, I think thats clear, too. I had a 
respectable show. Im emerging as the clear 
challenger. McGovern summed up the eve
nings accomplishment by saying,I hope 
the American people take heart from what 
^ has happened in this election. It is clear 
that McGovern not only appealed to the 
liberal, independent voters but also to New 
Hampshires blue collar force as he was 
pulling 35 percent of the vote in blue collar 
districts.
The winner of the primary, Senator Ed
mund Muskie, was not ecstatic but was 
pleased to come out on top. Muskie, upon 
^ being asked whether he was satisfied with 
only 48 percent declared, I was battling 
six others, one (Mills) paid more in adver
tising than I, and one newspaper, and when 
you end up on top, you win! In a speech 
at his headquarters, the Senator repeated 
the above but also included that this was 
his third victory in a row. Muskie was refer
ring to Arizona and Iowa where he got 
^ more delegates than anyone else. Muskie 
also noted that Iowa was Senator McGov
erns neighboring state. In summary, Mus
kie won but not convincingly enough to 
assure him of smooth sailing to Miami 
Beach.
Several other points were also brought 
up as to why Muskie did not receive a 
majority. The most significant force was
# William Loeb and his MANCHESTER UN
ION LEADER. The publisher supported 
Yorty, who got 12 percent of the vote in 
Manchester proper and 6 percent statewide 
at the expense of Muskie. Clearly, Loeb 
accomplished w'hat he set out to do, hurt 
Muskie! In Manchester, the largest city in 
New Hampshire, Muskie got only 40 per
cent in the area where tTHE LEADER is 
widely read. Yet outside Manchester, Mus"kie compiled over 55 percent of the vote.
Mills entry into the race caused Muskie to 
lose the 4 percent that went to him. It is 
not clear, however, that the nation will 
accept Muskies victory as a win.
Among the other candidates, Vance 
Hartke bombed (3 percent) and may as 
well return to the Senate chamber to wait 
and see if the courts rule if he really won 
re-election to the Senate in 1970 by 4000 
votes or not. Sam Yorty (6 percent) still 
has eyes on California although, due to 
lack of support, he dropped out of Florida. 
Writefirv-candidate Wilbur Mills 5 percent 
was unimpressive. Against his wishes, Ted
dy Kennedy still got enough write-ins to 
reach the 1 percent level. A Hartford social 
worker, Ed Coll, pulled 1 percent and less 
than 1 percent of the voters thought enough of Hubert Horatio Humphrey to 
write his name in!
In the final analysis it is not how well 
you fared in the popularity contest (it 
helps to do well), but how many delegates 
you get. As it now stands Muskie won 15 
of the 20 delegates and the remainder went 
to George McGovern. But several delegate 
races are still close. As little as 30 votes 
separate delegate candidates. Here, again, 
evidence is shown to the strength of Mc
Govern.
On the Republican side, Nixon carried 
all 14 delegates and soundly whipped the 
other three contenders. What McCloskey 
(20 percent) feared came truethe liberal 
independent voters went to McGovern-but 
he did reach his magic number in percent
age points. McCloskey now says he will 
enter in Rhode Island and in Massachu
setts. John Ashbrook (10 percent) consid
ers his support received as a moral victory 
and declared, The President is in 
trouble! Ashbrook hopes are high and he 
expects to pull 20 percent in Florida and 
Ashbrook claims he can win in Nixons 
home state, California. Pat Paulsen (1 per
cent) admitted that his candidacy was no
thing more than a publicity gimic.
The analysis of what happened in New 
Hampshire is that five candidates won vic
tory, psychologically or otherwise: Muskie, 
tops in delegates and popular vote, Nixon, 
the same; McGovern, 37 percent and 5 
delegates; McVloskey, his 20 percent mark; 
and ashbrook, a 10 percent show of sup
port. But how can a states primary with a
99 percent white population of around a 
half million be so significant?
The next primary occurs today in Flori
da where George Wallace is the expected 
winner and also controls the campaign be
cause hes got the other candidates cam
paigning on his issues such as busing, states 
rights, and so on. The thing to watch here 
in Florida is where Muskie and Humphrey 
land in this 16 candidate contest. A poor 
third place showing by Muskie might be 
fatal although it is expected to be a close 
race between Humphrey and himself for 
second. Lindsay is expected to cut deep 
into McGovern and possibly shake up his 
new found stability, along with Shirley 
Chisholm. On the other side of the coin, 
Ashbrook has been campaigning hard in 
Florida and could pull 20 percent or more. 
Anything above 20 percent could put more 
fuel into his campaign. Pete McCloskey has 
not entered this primary. The 1972 Florida 
democratic primary will be a test of how 
good George Wallace will do and how large 
his margin of victory will be.
GENERAL 
MEETING
off the 
Activities Board
Wed., March 15th 
4:30 PM. 
Room 33 Skibo
all those interested
PLEASE ATTEND 
MARCH FILM FESTIVAL:
MAMwmmmm
march 17th - WINTERUGHT 
march 18th - SILENCE 
march 19th - MONIKA
7:00 and 9:00 
PH 100 
50*/uB Card/Night 
So.00/ uB Card/Weekend

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 14, 1972
borke: options
Mina Gerall
Dr. Helene Borke, Assistant Professor in 
Margaret Morrison College, holds a joint 
appointment in Psychology and the De
partment of Business and Resource Mana
gement. Her contract will be terminated in 
June 1973 due to the elimination of 
MMCC. Dr. Borke came to CMU in the fall 
of 66. In 73, she will have completed her 
second three year appointment as an assis
tant professor. According to AAUP regula
tions, to continue her work at CMU, she 
must be promoted to the position of Asso
ciate Professor in 73. Dr. Borke requested 
to come up for promotion in the Psych 
department because her PhD is in Psych 
and her present department will be defunct 
in73.
Dr. Borkes experiences within the insti
tutions systems has led her to express 
some important thoughts and ideas con
cerning education and Carnegie-Mellon Un
iversity.
TARTAN: What action were taken by the 
Psychology Department concerning consi
deration of your promotion?
Dr. Borke: (Reading from a letter she re
ceived from the Psych Department) It was 
generally agreed that you are a hard-Working and dedicated teacher and in that 
respect you have made an important con
tribution to the educational goals of the 
department of Business and Resource Man
agement.... Your tow papers with Joan 
Burstyn, prepared for the Journal of 
Teacher Education, report your concern 
with teaching as well as your interest in 
communicating your ideas to a wide aud
ience...
As I (Dr. Moyer) suggested to you that 
there might be, there is considerable con
cern expressed in the Committee as to 
whether your research interests are suffic
iently close to the major research interests 
of the department, to justify a full time 
appointment at the Associate level. It is 
finally agreed, that they are not. A relat
ively small department must carefully 
guard against too much diversity with 
research. When there is not sufficient con
centration of effort, the department can 
make little National impact. Although it is 
true that some of your most recent work is 
involved in the study of cognizant pro
cesses in children, the overall judgement of 
the Committee is that your research pro
gram is not sufficiently related to the pro
blems which you have selected to work on 
are less important than those in the depart
ment program....
According to AAUP regulations, the 
only way I can stay is if I am promoted to 
Associate Professor. The Department made 
the decision not to 'recommend me for 
promotion. ;
TARTAN: What are your feelings about 
their decision and its ramifications?
Dr. Borke: I thing that what has happened 
raises a very basic problem. I think that the 
Psych Department has the right to opt for 
a department that is excellent and I cer
tainly respect their feeling that they can 
achieve this only if they concentrate on 
and emphasize carefully selected subject _ 
areas. These being cognitive, learning, 
physiological, and social, I believe.
But, the Psych Department has been 
placed in a rather peculiar position because 
theyve been forced both because of the 
service needs of the University, and be
cause of the demands of students to get 
into other areas which they really dont 
want to be involve in. One of these is the 
Counseling Center and the other is the 
whole educational program. Although the 
department is called the Department of 
Psychology and Educations, they are clear
ly not interested in putting much of an 
investment into education. Also, the de
partment is placed in this position because 
students demand they offer a number of 
courses in more people-oriented kinds of 
areas (Abnormal, Personality, Non-Verbal 
Communication, Human Relations, and 
Child Development). Other than the cours
es, a large number of indiviauals are doing 
independent studies because they are very 
intrigued by this whole area of children, 
how children relate, research with young 
children, etc. Anyhow, it suggests that ac
tually H&SS students are very interested in 
these different areas. So what you have 
here is that the Administration also knows 
that this is going on. The Administration 
knows that the students are interested in 
these areas and the Administration also 
knows that the Department of Psychology 
is very reluctant to go in these directions.
The Administration also has shown 
tremendous reluctance to do anything 
about this. And this brings us to the ques
tion of whether or not such programs are 
appropriate to a liberal arts college. I of 
course, feel that they are. Some suggestions 
have been made to perhaps create a depart
ment within H&SS that specializes in more 
people-oriented, interpersonal, commun
ications kinds of courses. In fact, one sug
gestion made was that there be a Depart
ment of Human Potential which would en
compass all of the currently existing pro
grams that will disappear with the closing 
of MMCC.
TARTAN: With the closing of MMCC, 
what will happen to existing facilities such 
Dr. Borke: Apparently nothing has been 
planned for the Child Development Lab
oratory and the Cooperative Program with 
Chatham...This is one thing the women feel 
very strongly about. That it is very impor
tant to keep these programs, which are of 
interest to both men and women. Yes! 
There are men in my courses. So, these are 
not exclusively areas for women...
These programs, I feel, are very approp
riate for a college of humanities and social 
sciences. Instead of creating such a depart
ment, the direction that the Dean of the 
College and the top level administration 
has taken has been more to simply ask 
sudents to accept the limited offerings of 
the college and they sort of suggest that no 
college can be everything to everyone. If 
students cant find what theyre looking 
for at this particular university, then they 
sould transfer elsewhere. The result so far 
as Im concerned is actually a void in a 
particular area and this leads, in my way of 
thinking, to a larger issue and the larger 
issue is a question of whether or not it is 
the responsibilty of the University to en
courage students who are interested in de
veloping expertise in solving human 
porblems to learn how to do so, to get the 
kind of background that is necessary. And 
is it not also the responsibility of the Un
iversity to search for answers to problems 
in new areas which are relevant to society 
as a whole. For instance, the Day Care 
movement would be an example of tljis...
It is a very broad issue, really: the dir
ection of the University as a whole, its 
development and whether it has a respons
ibility both to the students and to the 
society to include areas of study that have 
not traditionally been part of this Univer
sity but actually are very significant.
TARTAN: How do you perceive the func
tions of a liberal arts education?
Dr. Borke: The whole idea I think, of a 
liberal arts school is that you provide an 
environment where people can grow...in 
whatever direction they choose. In order to 
grow in a direction that is meaningful to an 
individual you have to have options...
TARTAN Where do you think H&SS has 
gone wrong? What new directions do you 
see?
Dr. Borke: ...Times have changed, so that 
in order for anyting to work it must be a 
joint kind of endeavor between the stud
ents and the people who are doing the 
planning. It wasnt that some of the plan
ners ideas werent excellent, but they 
didnt allow for any room for input by 
people who were participating in the pro
gram. And I,d say this was the primary 
error and theyre doing exactly the same 
thing again.
...There are a lot of ideas floating around about this problem. It has occurred 
to people on the faculty that there is an 
emptiness that needs to be filled (with 
people-oriented directions). Vic Vroom 
from GSIA has come up with a suggestion 
for a department of Applied Behavioral 
Science. Another idea is to set up a Depart
ment of Education. There is a lot of resis
tance to that by many faculty members on 
this campus because they feel the best way 
to get excellence in terms of education is 
to have people major in already existing 
departments.
TARTAN: Have any of these proposals 
been acted on?
Dr. Borke: No, nothing has happened to 
any of them. They have been sort of 
thrown out and lost. Theyve been brought 
to the attention of the Administration and 
faculty members and they have all stopped 
dead in their tracks.
Im convinced that the only thing that 
will get them going is pressure from the 
students because someone has to come out 
and indicate what they think the respon
sibilities of the University are. The Admin
istration has not taken any leadership in 
this. The Administration has mainly 
accepted that the goals already existing are 
sufficient. I think this totally ignores the 
rapid changes that are occuring in the soc
iety and the emphasis on technology. I 
think technology is fine....but I think you 
also have to place emphasis on human com
munications.
COMEfor less
with your oD Card
1000 9x12 Rugs SoS S19 S29 $49
also 6x9*, 12x12, 12x15% Me.
 WHOLESALE FURNITURE 
BEDROOMS, LIVING ROOMS, ETC 
AVAILABLE AT NEARBY SHOWROOMS
Director Chairs, Butterfly Chairs, 
Lamps, ate. Lor gar Furniture thru 
Whole* le Showrooms.
CHASES
5426 WALNUT STREET, SHADYSIDE
OPBN DAILY 10 o.m. to 9 p.m. 
(Saturday 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.)
For Information ... Call 621-1025
JOES PIZZA
is now delivering
Compare Our Prices
9- PoZZu ..........................0
12" PoZZu.......................1.40
Extra*  .25 and .30
SANDWICHES*
HOuGoE _______________*0
Hut ______________ *65
tus BuLL........................50
HOs SuUSuGE .................50
CHEESE .................... ........15
SODuS ___________ - M
Delivery Charge to D *m*:
? .95* ?CALL: 621-3223
4900 Baum Boulevard
KIBBUTZ KARAVAN!
?
oSRuEL FOLK 
SoNGoNG GROUP
Wednesday,
tarfh 15, 1972 
2:30 p.m.
 oSRuEL DuY 
tarfh 15, 72  Pitt Student Union
uDtoSSoON FREE
exhibit*uLL DuY
lefture 7 p.m., tr. tuki ssur
osraeli foodnoon to 2:30 p.m. and 
5:00 to 7:00 p.m.
FREE PROFESSIOML 
DRAFT COUNSELING
B'NAI B'RITM HILLEL FOUNDATION 
315 South Be lie field Avenue 
3rd Floor
Every Tuesday Evening
7:00 to 9:00 p.m.
621-8175

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 14, 1972 - THE TARTAN - Page 7
Campus Camera Headquarters
FOR uLL YOUR 
PHOsOGRuPHoC NEEDS
WE RENT AND 
REPAIR TYPEWRITERS
CAMERA EXCHANGE
Student Discount Mu Most Items:
3711 FORBES uVBoUEPhon: 633-2181
FLYWIM
11 to 2 a.m. very ** GoNO and PEsESrglte Out Order* 411 South Craig St.  Oakland 
682*8691 Hoogit The biggest and busiest 
Pizzas tade to Ordor -iPizza Parlor in OAKLAND!
FOR FREE
Pregnancy 
CounselingIn PITTSBURGH
Col
422-7900
Women's tedifal ussistanfe
a non-profit organization
DICTIONARIES 
WEBSTER
Library size, 1971 edition, brand 
new, still in box. Cost new: $45.00.
Will Sell for $15
Deduct >0% on orders of 6 or more. 
MeM te
NORsH utERoCuN 
LoQUoDusORS
1450 Niagara FaNt Blvd.Dept.
Teaawanda, New Yerfc 14150
C.O.D orders enclose SI.00 good will 
deposit. Pay bolonce plus COD. ship
ping on delivery. Be satisfied on inspec
tion or return within 10 days tor full 
refund. No dealers, eoch volume speci
fically stamped not for resale.
Please add $ I 25 postage and handling. 
New York State residents add applicable 
sales tax.
she University of Pittsburgh 
sHEusRE
PRESENsS 
Anna Cora MouxUtsFashion!
- OR
Lo FE oN NEW YORK
Direfted by CURsoS CuNFoELD
tUSoCuL NUtBERS 
STEPHEN FOSTER MEMORIAL 
8:30 p.m. 
tuRCH 3, 4, 8 thru 11 
tuRCH 15 thru 18
? uU SEusS RESERVED ? 
Reservations, Call 621-3500, 
Ext. 331, from 1-5 p.m. 
tonday thru Saturday
WHY START...!?! 
? AT THE BOTTOM!
when you fan start EXECUsoVE ROW 
as a pilot or navigator in the . . .
. . . UNosED SsusES uoR FORCE . . .
? good pay
? steady advanfement
? personal satisfaftion
. . . uRE JUSs u FEW BENEFosS . . . 
open to you as a fommisioned offi
fer on the uerospafe team. For the 
details:.. . CONsuCs:
SGs. DoCK uLLEN ... us 644-5837
Need summer credits? Check out Utica College of Syracuse
University. UCs offering an unforgettable Summer of 72
FOUR DAYS OF STUDY-THREE DAYS OF FUN
on the heart of Central New Yorks vafation land, 
UCs just a short hop in the old jalop from Old Forge, 
t q swinging fenter of udirondafk aftion. Historif 
Cooperstown on shimmering Otsego Lake, home 
of the Farmer's tuseum, Busfh Woodland tuseum, 
and the Baseball Hall of Fame is only a half hour 
away. srotters and pafers run every night at nearby 
Vernon Downs. New beat musif fills the nights at 
flose by Oneida Lake, and Saratogas Famous Per
forming urts Center is an hour and a half away by 
shruway.
sheres golf, tennis and baseball right on fam
pus. Plus swimming, diving, basketball, volleyball 
and weight training in our new $2.3 million Phys 
Ed Center. Day flasses end at 1:30 P.t. so there's 
plenty of time for fun. Other aftion sfheduled for 
our Summer of '72 infludes film, drama and musif 
workshops for fun and fredit.
EIGHT-WEEK SUMMER SESSION STARTS
JUNE 12 ENDS AUGUST 3
Courses (all in air-fonditioned flassrooms) are 
available in Behavioral Studies, Business udminis
tration, Languages and Literature, Sfienfe and 
tathematifs, Speefh and Communifations urts, and 
Graduate Edufation (Starts June 26).
SEND wm hb m m m 
FOR YOUR | p,ease sen<1 me y0ur "Summer of *72" bulletin: b
SUMMER |Nam*-----------------------------------|
of 72" | uddress--------------------------------o
BULLEsoN j Cit* ---state--------------ZiP----- |
NOW  Director of Summer Programs
Wiunfu - - - - - *^COLLEGEof Syrafuse University
umrtan* Rea*  Mice. N.V. 13902
SLIDE DOCUMENTARY
AUTOMATED WARFARE IN INDOCHINA
the man who brings you super bread and yurn my-inthe-tummy creme cupcakes helps you to grow up 12 
ways, to be strong, to man his tanks and bombers, and 
to kill little children who never stuc a creme-filled 
cupcake!
Friday, tarfh 17th  Wherrett Rm.f Skibo
2 shows: 11:30, 12:30 sponsored by Y-UCu & friends peafe fenter

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 14, 1972
CANDIDATES: STUD. GOVT ELECTIONS Mike Garl 
14 & 15 March 1972
President of the Student Government (1)
Michael J. Garl 
E. Scott Kramer 
Myron Staroschak 
Willie Ray Thompson
Director of Academic Affairs Board (1)
John Holubinko
College Council
Douglas M. Helfman, H&SS
Undergraduate Female Residents of Mudge 
and Morewood Gardens (2 full terms, 2 
half terms to be filled)
Renee Banks 
Rhonda Cohen 
Carol Nemetz 
Roxanne J. Seeman
Independent Male Residents of E-Tower, 
Morewood Gardens (1 full term)
Edward Levine
Independent Undergraduate Commuters (5 
full, 1 half)
Munro Jackson Grant 
Mark D. Green 
Bruce Hoffman 
Robert Luckie 
Ed Simm
Residents of the Hill Dorms (4 full, 2 half)
Kerry Greenwald
Fraternity Members (2 full, 3 half)
John Bell 
Robert J. Carrick 
Stan Edelstein 
Donald W. Gregg 
David V. Groupe 
Frank Sacco
Graduate Students (4 full, 1 half)
(no petitions received)
Renee Banks
Obviously, what Student Senate needs is 
more involvement from students them
selves. No one has any instant solutions to 
Senates problems, but I believe that one 
way could be to keep students more in
formed. As a member of the Information 
Committee, I will make sure that reports, 
not only from general meetings but from 
the committee meetings, are available to 
students by means of TARTAN, and the 
Information Desk at Skibo.
Mike Garl has been working with Stu
dent Government for the past two years 
trying to make it relate to the students and 
offer help for their problems. He ran into 
one major obstacle: Student Senate. Before 
Student Government could even begin to 
solve or help with students problems it 
had to solve its own. Mike spent his first 
year as a senator studying the operations of 
the senate and trying to find how they 
could be improved and who would do the 
job. He was also busy working on the Stu
dent Union Committee to create Carnegie-Mellon Student Government, Inc. In 
fact, his name is on the charter as an origin
al member of the Board of Directors.
After his first year Mike figured there 
was no one who was going to do anything 
to solve the problems so he ran for a sec
ond term and was successful. The rest of 
the senators having noticed his positive ef
forts elected him chairman. This position 
enabled Mike to expedite the proceedings 
of the legislative branch but unfortunately 
there was no direction or motivating force 
from anywhere else in the organization.
This is the year for Mike to make his big 
move as President. He began the job three 
months ago when the office was vacated 
and would very much like to continue. 
There are people who are anxious to work 
with Nike and make the Senate an interest
ing, worthwhile body. As President he 
would like to guide Student Government 
so it might serve the students and help 
them solve their problems.
John Bell
In my first year on the Student Senate I 
^feel that I have done a passable job repre
senting the fraternities of CMU. At the 
same time I hope I have increased the awareness of the fraternity system of be
coming actively involved in the affairs of 
the campus. I hope to continue in this 
capacity by serving another term on Sen
ate.
David V. Groupe
I am very much concerned with the 
apathy this campus seems to breed. I 
would like to represent that faction of 
CMU which shows the most widespread 
interest and participation in activities on 
our campus.
Please show your interest and dont for
get to vote.
t
Myron Staroschak
Student Senate: Karate Club, Money for 
Spring Carnival, Explorers Club, talk to 
the Board, Tuesday, 4:30, general campus, 
testimonial, corporation, Money for this 
and recognition of that. Nice, nice, very 
nice. Has Student Senate affected your 
head? Should it? I think so.
As we all should know, student 
government is the Controller of tens of 
thousands of dollars and the keeper of 
other omnipotent powers. But until you 
need a brand new pair of roller skates for 
the rinkee deank club you may be highly 
unaware of the effectiveness of S.G.
The students at CMU are apathetic and 
dont really give a damn about student 
government. (Ill bet that makes the 
3,999,999th time thats been said) Or how 
about Student government is apatheric 
and doesnt really give a damn about the 
students it represents. You hit me first; 
round and round.
Well, Myron, what is all this madness? 
I dont even know you why should I vote 
for you?
Because I want to see the people at 
CMU more sensitized toward each other 
and I would work to accomplish this. In 
my own way I would work (get ready) for 
a Love them because theyre people at
mosphere. Too many of us at Carnegie are 
caught up in our own heaviness. Could you 
say hello to a stranger and mean it? Do you 
categorize into worse-better, can you see 
the beings in themselves? What I want to 
see is greater opportunities for the people 
at CMU to meet each other as greater than 
good Shakespeare students or dependab
le brothers; rather chances to meet peo
ple as emotion-feeling entities, chances like 
that offered by Peer Group Center. Chan
ces to get minds together like with the 
Jesus people, wholl talk about selves and 
not necessarily conversion.
Many students are walking around with 
protective walls around their personalities 
and Id like to see some holes in those 
walls. Thats where my main concern lies.
I pledge to work for two groups of 
people who I feel are highly alienated from 
each other as beings in themselves, i.e., the 
sexual division. More co-ed doems is a must 
for this campus. Many women are suppres
sed because males never had the opportuni
ty to know women as people.
Besides working my ass off trying to get 
Actors and Engineers to have once a week 
credit people seminars Id want an active 
participation of some minimal number of 
senators in the Public Interest Research 
Group. The group is an excellent example 
of individuals, concern with people as peo
ple working for fellow men and women.
Rhonda Cohen Stan Edelstein
I never heard of Student Senate and In a situation where the university owns
What is it? are frequent comments exthe fraternity houses,-it is important that
pressed by women dorm residents. As a the fraternity system has strong representasenator, I will change that by 1) visiting all tion in all University decision-making bodresidents to explain what Senate is, and 2) ies. Student Senate is one of these bodies
posting monthly bulletins outlining Senand if re-elected I will continue to protect
ates progress and accomplishments. If electhe interests of the fraternaties and oppose
ted, my constituency will be knowledgeany actions which might tend to hurt the
able about the Senate. fraternity system at CMU.
Carol Nemetz
As a representative of Morewood 
Gardens, I will endeavor to create a more 
effective means of communication between 
the Student Senate and my constituency. 
The Student Government, the most 
important organization on campus, 
maintains regulations and controls the 
purse strings of various groups. It has an 
obligation to keep the students informed.
Frank Sacco
It seems evident to me that for the past 
two semesters or so the Student Senate has 
been quite deficient in its obligation as an 
active body linking the Student Body to 
the administrative and executive functions 
of the campus. I want to do my part to 
help rectify this situation, if possible.
John Holobinko
Platform: First, Reestablish the Aca
demic Affairs Board with definite goals, 
structure and operating procedure. The 
Board shall: a) define problems related to 
academic life b) perform in depth investiga
tions and analysis of these problems c) 
report its findings to the Student and 
Faculty senates, along with recommended 
actions d) follow up these reports to ensure 
that positive action is being implemented.
Second, Problems requiring immediate 
attention: a) lack of student discussion in
put into H&.SS proceedings on grading 
system b) inadequate evaluation proce
dures for faculty and courses c) insufficient 
library and general study facilities.
Experience: member of: 1. Academic 
Affairs Council of CMU Board of Trustees,
2. Educational Policy Council of Faculty 
Senate, 3. Research Policy Counci of 
Faculty Senate, 4. Student Advisory Com
mittee, Electricl Engineering Department.
Willie Roy Thompson
The purpose of Student Government is 
to promote the general welfare of the 
student body of Carnegie-Mellon. In this 
pursuit, I propose that the committees of 
Student Government concern themselves 
with the aspects of the university that do 
affect the students, i.e. health services, 
food services, housing, disciplinary decis
ions, academic options, etc.
In an effort to achieve these aims, I have 
supported proposals to streamline the oper
ations of Student Government and direct 
the majority of action on the part of Stu
dent Government towards on-campus inter
ests. But, in looking toward the future, I 
propose that the Student Government 
through its corporate entity, investigate the 
feasibility of: 10 Construction of bus shel
ters on the corner of Forbes and More
wood Ave, near the fraternities and in 
front of Warner Hall. 2) Construction of 
bicycle shelters in the dormitories, frater
nities, and on selected campus sites (i.e. 
Skibo, Baker, MMCC, etc.) 3) Institution 
of health service working jointly with the 
Pitt health service to increase the availabili
ty of quality professional health services. 
4) Establishment of a legal counseling ser
vice on campus on either a full or part-time 
basis. 5) Co-operative dormitories being in
stituted system-wide rather than in three 
dormitory buildings as proposed. 6) In
creased support of the Academic Affairs 
board proposals in the future. These are 
only general proposals to indicate the di
rection in which Student Government 
should aim in addition to increased funding 
of various activities already funded.
Finally, I do propose the establishment 
of a disciplinary board composed of stu
dents to deal with the problems arising 
from violations which are not at present 
dealt with by a student judiciary. At pres
ent, the only mode of discipline is the 
disciplinary board under the division of 
Student Affairs. It is my belief that in a 
college environment, students should be 
able to enforce the regulations that exist 
and to change those which are inequitable 
through those channels provided.
Therefore, on Tuesday and Wednesday, 
March 14 and 15, take a few moments to 
vote. Lets'get some use out of the student 
organizations. Its your choice
Edward Levine
Acting President Dr. Edward Schatz, in 
a recent interview with the TARTAN said, 
academic freedom is a must, because if 
that is not so, then its not education that 
the universities are developing, its indoctri
nation.  In my opinion, much is needed to 
achieve true academic and social freedom 
here at CMU. As a member of Student 
Senate, I would push for as many reforms 
as possible that my fellow students deemed 
necessary.
Kerry Greenwald
This past semester I have been greatly 
involved with Student Senate. From my 
active role on the Student Government 
Finance Committee I have been, and will 
continue to be, a staunch advocate of 
funds for Activities Board, MDC, PIRG, 
W3NKI, Karate Club, THE TARTAN, and 
others.
I ask for your vote of confidence.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 14, 1972  THE TARTAN  Page 9
f
tuCHoNES
On April 25 Pennsylvania will conduct 
its primary elections and for the first time 
listen to the 18 to 21 year old segment of 
its population. Since the courts ruled in 
favor of college residency many students 
will be voting here at CMU and have a 
voice in local politics. They will case their 
votes on one of the three thousand voting 
machines used in Allegheny County. 
Although there is no great difficulty 
involved with these machines it is very easy 
to get confused by the 475 levers on each 
one.
On Tuesday and Wednesday four of 
these machines will be on our campus and 
any student with a library card will be able 
to see the inside of these machines and pull 
whatever levers he or she chooses. The 
machines will be here for the Student 
Government spring elections when 
President of Student Government, Director 
of Academic Affairs Board and twenty six 
senators will be chosen. If the idea of 
getting involved with Student Government 
doesnt excite students, maybe the chance 
to use one of these machines might.
Each one of these machines as 475 
levers but for the elections here at CMU we 
only need to use 45 so the others will be 
locked. Across the top of the face will be 
printed the offices opened, down the side
PRESoDENs 
ELECT I
will be the constituencies. Before you enter 
the machine it will be switched to allow 
you to vote only in the row headed by 
your title. When you enter the machine 
you will find a handle that will close the 
curtain behind you, pull it. The first five 
levers in each row are for the campus wide 
offices of President and Director of 
Academic Affairs Board. The rest of the 
levers in each row are marked with the 
candidates names and how many levers you 
should pull. To vote simply pull down the 
levers for the desired people. If you want 
to add the name of someone as a write-in 
candidate you will find little sliding doors 
above each row of levers, open the door 
and write the name on the paper and close 
the door. When you are finished voting 
there is a button about waist high which 
you should push, this will register your 
vote, return all the levers and open the 
curtain. All this happens in a matter of 
seconds and usually startles people so dont 
be startled. It all takes a few minutes.
The polls will be open Tuesday and 
Wednesday and will be located in Baker 
Hall lobby, first floor Fine Arts, Skibo 
Lobby and Morewood lobby. You will 
need a white library card for identification 
to vote. If you dont have a library card 
you must vote in Skibo lobby.
(toO510I-2KSiSto<<
(a)
tale Residents 
of E-sower
Mike
Garl
E. Scott 
Kramer
Myron
Stareschok
Willie Roy 
Thompson
(b)
Undergraduate 
Females in 
tudge and 
toorewood
(f)
Fraternity
tembers
(d)
Undergraduate
Commuters
(e)
Residents of 
Hill Dorms
(f)
Graduate
Students
SsUDENs SENusE
o 
c -Q f o
11
-2 
11 X <U LU I
03 </<D
C C a co 
OC 00
f
o|3 C
CO 
? c o _C o tr a
a>
o 5 OCO
 a>2 EcoO Z
COJa>u WQ O
a>f fC P0 CD CX Om 0)LI. co
5  % 2 Q OU_ CO
II5 
XJoos> f ta> k-a> r * O
cCD E
E o ml
0) V-Q uO 3 OC -J
E
T3 E 
LU CO
c
1 2 3 4 58 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 14,1972
.sOt
Stephen Saunders
ceton, Yale or Harvard. It never really occured to me not to go to Harvard. That 
sounds very weird, I know. It never really 
occured to me not to go to college. And 
the two places I was considering were the 
University of North Carolina, which I al
most wish Id done, and Harvard. I was 
going to be a Marine Biologist. And they 
had a good department at North Carolina. 
But I went to Harvard, which has this terri
ble biology course that diverted me from 
my vocation. Andl became a singer instead
show what good taste they have even more. 
But you cant take seriously a lot of people 
telling you you are terrific. You cant let 
your audience tell you what to do. You 
cant try to pander to them, because then 
youre not really being anartist. Do you 
think popularity changes the quality of the 
artist?
S: I think it does.
S: Dont you feel disappointed when some
thing good becomes overpopularized?
R: Yeah, that feeling used bo be around a 
whole lot, but the Beatles became very 
popular - I really liked them - and Dylan 
did, too.
S: Do you think some of your stuff is 
overproduced?
R: You mean in terms of the bulky 
arrangements and things like that? Yes I 
do.
S: How much control does an artist have 
over production?
R: It depends on the artist and the prod
ucer. Supposedly, I am ultimately to blame 
for everyting that goes on my albums. But 
in fact, youre working with a producer. 
This new album is the first one Ive prod
uced myself, so I didnt have to argue with 
anybody. I also dont have anybody to 
blame. But you get into arguments with 
the producer where he says, If you let me 
leave in the violin^ in, Ill take out the 
drums. And you end up in compromise 
situations and compromise decisions where 
neither party is really getting what they 
wanted.
S: How do you classify yourself? Are you a 
hippie? A beatnik?
R: I try not to.
S: But if you were forced to. What if 1 
pulled a gun?
R: Oh, a gentleman farmer. I suppose Im a 
country squire now that I have my estate. 
This isnt going to look good in print, is it?
I dont know how I classify myself.
S: I was told to ask you to compare your 
style with James Taylors. Can you do 
that?
R: I dont think it would be profitable.
S: Why does your version of Sweet Baby 
James sound exactly like James Taylors?
R: Do you think so? 1 dont really think 
they sound exactly the same. Ill grant that 
I dont do any violent turning around of 
the tune. I cant really think of a radically 
different approach to it. Maybe theres a 
rock and roll vprsion of it somewhere, but I 
cant imagine it.
S: What is the significance of the Rain
bow Circle?
R: The rainbow circle is a sign of storm. 
When theres a rainbow circle around the 
moon, it means a storm is coming. Its due 
to ice crystals in the stratosphere denoting 
a low pressure area, which I just learned 
this summer. But in old folk terms, its an 
omen of storm. Thats the way the farmers 
will tell you a storm is coming.
S: How did you get a hobby like breeding 
black and white bees?
R: I havent actually done that. Im going 
to do it this spring. Im going to send away 
for my bees. Ive got a place out in the 
country, and as I understand it, you put 
the bees off in a corner somewhere and 
they go to work for you and you dont 
really have to raise them or do anything to 
them. It takes 8 hours a year. My brother 
got me into gliders. It was something Id 
always intended to do - go up for a glider 
ride - and he sort of forced me into it. I 
decided I liked it so much that I kept it up 
and got a license. And next Ill get a plane, 
maybe.
R: No, that wasnt my doing. Nor did I 
have anything to do with their breaking up.
Interviewing a musician who your fri
ends have spoken of with stars in their eyes 
and admiration in their voices can be a very 
disquieting experience. On February 23 I 
did just that. With a prepared portfolio of 
scattered information, memories of Listen 
to this record, its great!, three days of 
constant exposure to THE CIRCLE 
GAME, TOM RUSH, and CLASSIC RUSH, 
and a long drunken conversation with my 
most dedicated Tom Rush fan friend as 
preparation, I conducted a very nervous, 
although interesting telephone interview 
with Tom Rush. I tried to make the con
versation as natural as possible, and disco
vered that all the pretenses of natural con
versation disappeared as soon as the giant 
WRCT telephone tape recorder began to 
record. Despite the endless train of waivering, quivering OKs and Yeahs and Yeah, 
wells, Tom Rush came shining through.
SAUNDERS: Why did you have someone 
call up THE TARTAN and ask if anybody 
wanted to do an interview with you? What 
is the purpose of this interview?
Rush: It was my feeling that the college 
newspapers are neglected by mostpeoples 
press departments. I do a good many col
lege radio things too. Having run a college 
radio show myself, I recognize the difficul
ties.
S: Dont you have an album coming out 
soon?
R: Yes. Supposedly in the middle of 
March. Its waiting for a cover at the mom
ent.
S: Are you planning to be coming to Pitts
burgh?
R: No. As far as I know, I dont have any 
bookings in Pittsburgh. It would be great 
to see Pittsburgh again. How is old Pitts
burgh?
S: You are doing a lot more rock and roll 
now, arent you?
R: I guess youd call it rock and roll. The 
new album has some out and out rock and 
roll on it as well as some more down stuff.
S: How do you feel anout Dave Van Ronk?
R: Hes awful good. I havent heard the 
stuff hes done most recently.
* *?' I'p* ***%
S: They put both of you in the same group 
of young, white, urban blues singers who 
became popular in the mid sixties.
S: Is there much of a clique among music
ians like you and James Taylor and Joni 
Mitchell?
R: Its pretty loose because professional 
musicians are mostly travelling and you 
dont get to do a whole lot of hanging out 
as a rule. But I know a lot of people on a 
vague basis and of course the people that I 
work with I see more steadily.
S: How did you find Joni Mitchell?
R: I met her in a club in Detroit. She was 
living in Detroit at the time. I was playing 
at the club and she came by and did a guest 
set for me and I really liked her tunes. So I 
started hyping them around to people.
: How did you meet Trevor Vietch?
R: I guess I do get included in that. I really 
like the stuff he was doing then. He did an 
album with a group called The Hudson 
Dusters. I havent heard anything hes 
done since then. I love the way he does 
Clouds.
S. Were you born in Merrimack County?
R: Well, 1 was born in Portsmouth, New 
Hampshire, which Im pretty sure is in Mer
rimack County. I was raised in Concord 
New Hampshire, which is definitely Merri
mack County. And I just bought a house in 
Hillsboro, New Hampshire, which is right 
next to Merrimack County. S: How did 
you end up at Harvard? .
R: I went to a prep school called Grotten, 
which is sort of a training camp for Har
vard, or was at that time. It is no longer 
true. 89% of my class went to either PrinR: I met him in Toronto. I was looking for 
a guitar player and I had a bass player with 
black hair and a beard. A club owner said I 
should meet Trevor - that they looked like 
bookends. Hes a nice guy and a good gui
tar player.
S: What do you think of the fact that 
James Taylor has become extremely teenybopper and commercial? I think his quality 
has gone down. At least, I think MUD 
SLIDE SLIM isnt as good as SWEET 
BABY JAMES or his first album. Would 
you want something like that to happen to 
you? To suddenly become a superstar and 
have your picture on the cover of Time 
Magazine?
R: To answer your question, I dont think 
its James fault that a lot of people like 
him. I dont think you can hold that 
against him. I think it just shows good taste 
on the part of the teenyboppers. And 1 
think that if the teenyboppers decided 
they like me, that would (giggle, smirk)
S: You discovered both James Taylor and 
Joni Mitchell. Are you responsible for 
bringing them together?

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 14, 1972 - THE TARTAN - Page 11
Sometimes flying standby is mostly standing by.
shats why Northwest fame up 
with Reserved Youth Fare.
Camping out is great. But not at an airport. 
Sometimes, unfortunately, it turns out that 
way. Now, though, weve done something 
about it.
of you have any airline Youth Card, you fan 
get a reserved seat for 20% off. take a reser
vation and when flight time fomes, just walk 
in and take your seat along with all the other
important people. No waiting. No worrying. 
No getting bumped off the plane when you 
really wanted to go all the way home.
of you dont have a Northwest Youth Card, 
you should. und you fan get one at any North
west tifket offife or your fampus travel agent. 
(Be sure to bring along proof that youre 
between 12-22.)
Next time you fant afford to wait, remem
ber Northwests Reserved Youth Fare. und 
fall your travel agent or Northwest uirlines.
FLY NORTHWEST ORIENT
P S. SsuNDBY FuRES. so those of you who dont
mind standing by in airports and even
think its sort of neat befause you meet interesting
people there: your Youth Card fan still get
you Northwests regular standby youth
fare40% off Coafh.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12 - sHE suRsuN - Tuesday, March 14,1972
Going Home Over Spring Break?
AS J/V THE PAST, A.Phi.O. will operate a CHUTTLE 
BUS SERVICE from C-MU Campus to Greater Pitts
burgh International Airport on MARCH 24th, 1972!
COSs: So.50 . . . Leave C-tU from:
tOREWOOD GuRDENS at: 11:45 a.m, 2:15 p.m., 4:45 p.m. 
DONNER HuLL at: 12:00 noon, 2:30 p.m 5:00 p.m.
so take Reservations:
Contaft any of the following:
? 1) Skibo Info. Desk
?2) tain Desk at toorewood Gardens
? 3) Dave tahaesek, B-102 Sfhlag 
?4) Ron toffat, 301 Donner
?5) u.Phi.O., Box 100 (Campus tail)
?6) sefh sravel Offife, BH-136
tuKE CHECKS PuYuBLE sO oLPHu pHo otEGu, kuPPu fHuPsERo
classical music, Hand has worked in the 
more popular musical idioms. He has 
studied jazz guitar with Jim Hall. He has 
given instruction in rock and blues guitar 
and has provided back-up guitar work for 
numerous rock groups and pop and folk 
singers both in nightclubs and recordings.
Frederic Hand has performed as soloist 
on WNYC radio in New York, and NBC 
television. He has toured the US and 
Canada twice including concerts at Carn
egie Recital Hall in NY, Theatre Maisonueve, Montreal, and Carnegie Lectue Hall, 
Pittsburgh. Gilles Potvin of La Presse wrote 
after hearing Hand perform in Montreal, 
Despite his youth, Frederic Hand has 
mastered the guitar in a remarkable 
fashion. The precision, the simplicity of his 
style, and the finese of his playing show us 
that the great masters of the instrument, 
Segovia and Bream, are his models. The 
most critical audience will find little to 
reproach him as to his style or technique.
Mr. Hand, who live in New York City 
and is frequently joins the orchestras of 
major theatrical companies. He has 
appeared as soloist with the Robert Joffrey 
Ballet Company, with the NYC Center 
Ballet Company, the New York City Opera 
Company in productions of Handels Julius 
Caesar and Monteverdis LIncoronazione 
di Poppea, and most recently as lutenist 
and guitarist for the New York Shakes
peare Societys summer production of 
Romeo and Juliet in Central Park.
To Mr. Hands most recent credit is a 
recording of a Suite for Double-String Bass 
and Guitar by Alec Wilder (Golden Crest 
Records) with the world renowned doubtbassist, Gary Karr.
Little more needs to be said, wrote a 
Pittsburgh critic, than that Frederic Hand, 
at twenty years of age, is in complete con
trol of the classical guitar repertoire, and is 
one of its finest exponents.
Frederic Hand will be here on Thursday, 
March 16 for an open workshop between 
3:00 PM and 5:00 PM and a concert at
HAND
Young men and young women with 
guitars are so common to us that we scarce
ly notice them more than people carrying 
umbrellas on a rainy day. Pop music ab
solutely depends on the guitar for accom
paniment. But the guitar Frederic Hand 
plays is the classical guitar-what Beethoven 
called a miniature orchestra. Frederic 
Hand is a uniquely talented performer. 
Leonid Bolotine, the director of the Classi
cal Guitar Department at NYC:s Mannes 
College of Music, describes Hand as the 
fortunate possessor of an outstanding musi
cal talent. He is innately musical, his musicality has been well developed and polished 
and he is a natural performer before the 
public. I predict a most successful career 
for his in his chosen field on the road to 
which he is already far advanced.
Frederic Hands career began years ago 
when he sat around a camp fire with other 
children singing folk sings, accompanied by 
a counsellor playing the guitar. It was then, 
he claims, that he fell in love with the 
guitar. His interest in music encouraged by 
his parents, Hand also sang professionally 
with the John Motley Choir when he was 
nine until he was thirteen. Later he studied 
violin at the Greenwich School of Music in 
New York City. He attended the High 
School of Music and Art in New York City, 
a school in the Citys system which is speci
fically designed for talented adolescent 
musicians and artists. At HSMA, he 
majored in viola and composition.
Eventually having decided to concen
trate his musical study in classical guitar, 
Hand studied under the masters Manual 
Gayol and Alberto Valdes-Blain. In the 
summer of 1967, he was one of ten guitar
ists chosen from all over the world to parti
cipate as a performer in the Julian Bream 
Master Classes at Stratfprd, Canada; Pre
sently, he is studying at the Mannes College 
of Music in New York, working toward a 
Bachelor of Science degree under the 
direction of Leonid Bolotine.
Although his interest lies primarily in
WDVE means today. It's sounds that 
resound in the lifestyle of now and 
tomorrow. WDVE provides you with news 
and commentary too, and two hours each 
day of aii-tatk programming. Were the 
kind of radio station thats a lot different from everybody else on either the AM or 
FM dial. Weve putled all the pieces into place on The Radio Station.
WDVE/1025Ft
WDVE: sHE RuDoO SsusoON

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

Page 14 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday, March 14,1972
editorial
The buggy races at this years Spring Carnival should be very inter
esting. / predict that three buggies will wreck and that at least two of the 
buggies entered in competition wont see the race days-- they wont pass 
the brake test. My usual optimism is over-shadowed by this years safety 
requirements, or the lack of them. Im hoping that my predictions wont 
come true.
/ feel the catalyst of the safety campaign absurdity stems from last 
years unfortunate accident during push practice. Im in no position to 
place any moral judgements on past tradgedies, but this editorial will be 
concerned with the outcome.
This year, the sweepstakes rules have "the emphasis on safety. A 
Safety Inspector has been appointed by vote by the various buggy chair
men. He will be at push practices administering brake tests to the buggies 
and drivers before they run and inspecting safety design procedures of 
each entry. Any changes of design must also be reported to the Inspector. 
The crash safety regulations this year are incredible. Theres requirements 
for headgear for buggy and bike drivers alike, lights must be used on 
buggies during push practices, security guards will be posted on the hills 
during practice to direct traffic, and so on. Meanwhile there are minor 
annoyances. Theres going to be some hassle with some groups incorp
orating new brake systems, redesigning the overall structures and spending 
a lot of time and money to meet said safety requirements. Im for 
increased safety in this fast-moving and exciting competition but the 
safety design of buggies is being pushed to absurd limits. Also, the 
restriction of practice to a few hills is going to lead to crowded conditions.
/ dont see where this accident provoking condition fits in with safety 
procedures.
Where does this all lead? Our super safe buggies and practice proced
ures will not change the major cause of accidents. The most important 
safety feature, the one that counts, is being ignored, not by the students, 
but by the administration. In the contest rules, it says "The judges may 
cancel the preliminary or final race(s) due to inclement weather.  If they 
had any sense at all the judges would see that even in good weather, the 
conditions for racing are less thatn perfect, in fact dangerous. Im speak
ing, of course, about the conditions of Tech and Frew Streets. The pot 
holes are so bad that the shocks in my car have had it. Picture a buggy 
driver making the turn at the bottom of free roll. The pot holes are so 
numerous and the drivers head is bouncing at such a rate that vision is a 
blur. No vision safety requirement can remedy this. Also, what is to keep 
the driver from sliding into the curb or rolling over? How much control 
can he have when he cant keep all four wheels on the ground?
What upsets me is that to my knowledge, Carnegie-Mellon University is 
doing nothing about getting the roads repaired for the races and is taking 
no liability for any accidents occurring during the entire Spring Carnival. 
In fact, it was suggested to the entrants that they take out special 
insurance policies for the races. / mean, when yourre spending several 
hundred dollars designing a buggy, whats a couple hundred more?
The solution is not to disappoint the various groups who have already 
been working for weeks, or the spectators who are awaiting the action of 
race day, by calling off the races. All those safety regulations arent worth 
shit without good road conditions. / wont be assuaged by promises of 
repaving. In the three years Ive been here the roads havent been repaved, 
and theyve needed it. Bob McCurdy, Dean Swank, Dr. Schatz, what are 
you doing about this? Dont make promises of action, / wont believe it 
until / see the work being done, and soon.
JUDE
WOMENS BASKETBALL
The CMU Womens varsity basketball 
team, coached by Ms. Jane Fisk, finished 
the season with seven wins and only two 
losses, despite a gloomy preseason outlook, 
including a rough schedule and only four 
veteran players. Paula Vergith led the team 
in scoring with an average of 20 points and 
a high game of 34 points. Cindy Whitmore, 
Marty Lisberger and Captain Catherine de 
Breuil had games of 10 points or more.
But offense is only half the game. The 
CMU defense features a box and dot 
zone which varied in appearance from a 3-2 
zone to a 2-1-2 zone to a 2-3 zone. The 
only thing that is consistent about the de
fense is its effectiveness. Opponents were 
constantly forced into long shots, being 
unable to penetrate the defense for any
thing easier.
The efforts of the players already men
tioned were supported by contributions 
from the new players, Pat Salopow, Jennie 
Logan, Sam Mryczko, Ruthie Potts, Kathy 
Iannacchione, and Linda Ackerman. As 
many of the players are freshman, the pros
pects for next years team look excellent.
Special notes: Softball practices are 
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday at 4:30' 
in the gym. The team would like to thank 
Ms. Barbarich, Norma Pincus, Barbara 
Foole,Gordon Morrison, Joe Merola, and 
the fans who attended the games. Special 
recognition and thanks to Paula Vergith, 
who is graduating this year.
fringe wins
Bob FishLeMay
Last Tuesday saw a surprisingly strong 
Fringe team take the intramural swimming 
title in a closely contested meet. In a strict
ly three team contest the Fringe wrapped 
things up by winning the last relay. The 
final score was Fring 46, Beta 38, and Joy 
Boys 30.
The Fringe established itself as a con
tender by winning the opening relay. Two 
events later Andrus and Sanders captured 
first and second in the individual medley 
putting the Fring in front to stay. At this 
point their lead was substantial; Fring 20, 
Joy Boys 12 and Beta 7. In the next event 
LaRochelle set an intramural swimming on 
his way to a victory for Beta in the fifty 
butterfly. After Lee won the 100 free for 
Fringe and LaRochelle won the 50 back
stroke, the meet was close; Fringe 28, Beta 
25 and Joy Boys 21. The Fringe and Beta 
traded victories in the next two events and 
brought the meet to the final relay with 
Fringe leading Beta by four. Beta lead the 
Joy Boys by a yard during the first two 
legs of the relay with Fringe far behind. On 
the third leg Sanders put Fringe back in the 
race and Lee pulled away from the other 
competition to win.
Individual high scorers for the meet 
were: LaRochelle, Beta 13 1/2; LeMay, 
Beta, 11 1/2; Lee, Fringe, LI ; and Tulenko, 
Joy Boys, 11.
Sports
IM BASKETBALL STATISTICS
MAJOR LEAGUES
LakersW L
Salt and Pepper8 0
Wild Bunch5 3
Raiders II5 3
BTP2 7
ATO1 7
BucksW L
10 plus 28 1
GSIA7 2
Right Arm5 5
SAE4 5
Dirks Jerks4 5
SNA0 10
INTERMEDIATE LEAGUES
KnicksWL
PKT A7T
Fedora Hts.5H
Purple Gnurples5H
BSR AU3
Shrinks3U
FringeH5
BTP CHS
ATOCHS
CelticsWL
PlayersST
Fukowis5H
Oak AU!
On Tap3U
MBs!U
TDPH3
KSTS
SunsAL
RoachesST
Respect5H
PKA5!
Freeps33
Oak B!4
BTP RedH5
TDPTH
BSR BT5
HawksAL
SAE B7T
Lucky Hw5!
Bandits43
Hi Guise A34
PKT B34
Music34
ATO B35
Junior HammersHS
MINOR LEAGUES
WarriorsWL
Gups80
Civil Ham71
DTDP63
EZBF63
Scrow44
Free Rad.45
Hi Guise B25
PKA27
APO05
RoyalsWL
Old Men80
Stronzos71
SAE J52
Cows53
ATO J45
Clackers35
PKT BER35
SNB17
DTD B08
HOCKEY
Jim Powers
The Tartan ice hockey skaters virtually 
clinched second place in the City Division 
of the WPICHA by defeating second place 
rival Duquesne University by a score of 4 
to 3. The game was played last Saturday at 
the Alpine Arena in Edgewood before a 
large crowd. CMU previously defeated the 
Dukes, 8 to 3, earlier in the season.
The game itself started out just as every
one had expected: rough and fast. This was 
a must game for both teams and Duquesne 
still retained momentum from their 3 to 3 
tie with Pitt two weeks earlier. Although 
CMUs two principal forward lines immedi
ately took control of play, buzzing around 
the Duquesne net, the Dukes goaltender 
seemed to be having another fine game, 
turning back a CMU breakaway and a large 
number of shots on goal. Both teams went 
into their dressing rooms at the end of the 
first period with the score tied at 0 to 0.
The secQQ4,pe4pd was different, how
ever, as Duquesne played a more wide open 
game with harder checking than in the first 
period. The Tartans dominance of play 
seemed to end in this period as the Dukes 
were first on the scoreboard. Cliff Carter of 
Duquesne intercepted a CMU pass at the 
Tartan blue-line, shot on goalie Jeff Hart, 
who made the initial stop, and Dan 
McGovern banged in the rebound for 
Duquesne to make the score 1 to 0.
However, CMU bounced right back 
several minutes later when Mike Ken
worthy fed Dick Eastman with a pass 
which sent Eastman in alone on 
Duquesnes net. Eastman put a beautiful 
move on the Dukes net-minder to tie the 
score at 1 to 1.
Duquesne scored once again in the 
second period on a shot by Dudley Cotton 
from the top of the face-off circle. The 
score at the end of the period was 2 to 1 in 
favor of Duquesne. CMU goalie Jeff Hart 
made a number of outstanding saves in this 
period, preventing Duquesne from in
creasing their lead.
The third period was undoubtedly the 
most exciting period of hockey the Tartans 
have played all season. CMU frowards fore
checked viciously deep in the Duquesne 
zone all period long as Duquesne grew fran
tic trying to relieve the pressure. Things 
really became exciting when the Tartans 
clicked for their second goal early in the 
period on a pass play from Hauser to Mac
Donald to Powers, who banged the puck 
into the open corner of the net. The Alpine 
Arena erupted in cheers and the Tartans 
found renewed confidence after constant 
attempts to score were frustrated at the 
hands of the Duquesne net-minder, CMU 
again found the mark a short time later 
when Kenworthy scored on the rebound of 
a shot by Eastman. The Tartans now had 
the lead, 3 to 2.
But Duquesne bounced back with only 
about three minutes left in the game on a 
goal by McGovern. After having tied the 
score, Duquesne was content to just clear 
the puck out of their zone and keep the 
tie. but Tartan coach John Davies sent out 
five forward skaters to try to break the tie, 
and with four seconds left, Dick Eastman 
scored on a heart-stopper in front of the 
Duquesne net to give CMU the lead, 4 to 3. 
Duquesned tried everything to get the goal 
disallowed, claiming that they had heard a 
whistle before the goal was scored. A fif
teen minute argument then ensued which 
ended in the announcement that the goal 
was allowed. A fight emptied both 
benches, almost resulting in the leagues 
first donnybrook. The game ended in a 
Tartan victory. The tartan defense, 
especially the combination of Rich Herlich 
and Ken Ford, was a key factor in the 
Tartan win, stopping the Dukes consistantly at the CMU blueline.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, March 14, 1972  THE TARTAN  Page 15
NO tORE PENCoLS/ NO tORE BOOKS, NO tORE sEuCHERS DoRsY LOOKS.
sWu oNsRODUCES sHE 1972 GEsuWuY* PROGRut.
This ad wasnt written to amuse you. It was written to get you to think. To think of how few school vacations you may have left.Before you know it, the 9 to 5 hassle will be starting. So this summer may be your last real chance to travel. To help you plan your getaway, let us send you our free Getaway* Kit.With the Kit you can get:TWAs Stutelpass.*A coupon booklet that gives you a room and continental breakfast in either a guesthouse or student hotel in Europe for only $4.80 a night.No advance reservations are needed.Also included are free coupons that can be used for bullfights, use of a bicycle, theater tickets, sightseeing and more.TWAs Bed and Breakfast Adventures.2- to 7-day guesthouse packages to any of 50 European cities. Among them Amsterdam, where you can spend 3 days for only $22. And Athens, where 3 nights cost only $16.TWAs Getaway* Card Application.With TWAs Getaway Card, you can charge 
airfare, hotels, meals, car rentals, Getaway packages and more. And then take up to two years to pay.Its the most widely distributed, widely accepted
airline card in the world. And its free.TWAs Youth Passport* Card.If youre 12 thru 21, you can get 1/3 off normal domestic coach flights, on a standby basis.Plus discounts on over 20 other airlines in the 
United States, Canada, and Europe.The card also gets you discounts at over 700 shops 
and hotels around the world.TWAs Getaway* Guidebook.A 224rpage guidebook highlighting 19 of the most ^ popular cities in the world.
PLEASE SEND ME jH GETAWAY KIT. !
TWA, P.O. Box 876 
Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735
Name.
Address. 
City-----
State
^My travel agent is_TWA
Service marks owned exclusively bv TWA.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16 - sHE suRsuN - Tuesday, March 14, 1972
<0
URBAN TRANSPORT
CHISHOLM
Harlem Congresswoman Chisholm 
launched her address with the declaration 
that The powerless and the helpless must 
come together now to control their lives. 
She insisted that it is imperative that we 
expand the basis of political participation 
in this country, for we cant continue to 
exclude women, black people, and the 
young from the process of national policy 
determination without finding that the 
governmant is out of touch, and its policy, 
is damaging to the majority of the people 
that it is to. serve.
Representative Chisholm proceeded to 
articulate a comprehensive criticism of the 
Nixon Administrations economic policies, 
contending that Our President lied to the 
American people when he said to the Am
erican people that Our program of food 
and wage controls is working. She cited 
as evidence of the Presidents deceit De
cembers statistics of food and rent price 
increases, noting that she was especially 
concerned about the rent control of Phase 
Two, which, she said, was tantamount to 
declaring an open get-it-while-you-can 
season on renters. Those hit hardest by the 
economic controls are, according to Shirley 
Chisholm, the American poor and helpless, 
as evidenced by the inordinately hish un
employment rate characteristic of the na
tions blclack ghettos (12 percent and ris
ing), and by the fact that children under 
age 1 6 comprise 36 percent of Americas 
poor, while those aged over 75 comprise an 
additional 24 percent.
Mrs. Chisholm reaped a show of consid
erable audience assent when, exploiting the 
ironic, she noted that the cost of living, 
for all kinds of Americans is first on our 
minds this year, yet the President has de
cided that it is a year for travel. He is 
willing to go halfway around the world, 
and yet doesnt have the time to walk just 
ten blocks from the White House in Wash
ington and look at the lives people are 
living under Phase Two.
We have allowed our economic well-being to wither away and rot, said Presiden
tial aspirant Chisholm, and the basic rea
son is the fundamental lack of balance in 
this nations priorities. She was specific
ally critical of the present level of federal 
expenditure on projects such as the SST, 
the C5A giant aircraft, and a space shuttle 
to where?, labeling them public projects 
created to serve a tiny elite. Economic 
policy, according to Rep. Chisholm, seems 
to be engineered form the assumption that 
what is good for the international corpora
tion on Wall Street will inevitably trickle 
benefits down to the consumer, but in real
ity, the only things trickling down are
COlftt
taxes and increased costs of goods and ser
vices.
The Democratic congresswoman said 
that she was sickened by corporate tax 
loopholes and big business subsidies, and 
called for through tax reforms which 
would effectively end the system of spe
cial privileges which is the tax system of 
America today. She was particularly caus
tic concerning the administrations sales 
tax, for a sales tax is the enemy of the 
poor person, of the elderly couple that 
lives on a fixed income, of the average 
American consumer. If elected President, 
she promised to reconsider all of our na
tions international economic programs in 
the light of the needs of the American 
poor, proposing the submittal for public 
scrutiny of an economic impact state
ment.
Representative Chisholm was explicit 
about the intent of her candidacy for the 
Democratic presidential nomination: I 
have decided to become a viable alternative 
so that people dont have to feel that a 
vote must be cast for the lesser of two 
evils. I come to you as a very serious per
son fed up with the powerlessness of mil
lions of people who say every four years: 
Whats the use? I am your instrument. I am 
your catalyst for change.
In advocating her own candidacy, 
Shirley Chisholm was universally critical Of 
the plethora of other*Democratic hopefuls 
who, all of a sudden, are gung ho on 
womens rights, each candidate out-womaning the other. and each pretending to 
offer the only solution to the (race) prob
lem Miss Chisholm feels that she unique
ly among the candidates does not conform 
to this mold of plastic pre-] ackagedness: I 
as saying to you very boldly, youve never 
given your vote to anybody looking like 
me.
If given support at the polls, Repres
entative Chisholm promised to wield the 
power thus derived in the interests of the 
people at this summers Democratic con
vention. How nice it would be to go to 
the convention and not worry what theyre 
doing to us in the back rooms and know 
that we have what it will take for any of 
them to get across the top. Among other 
concessions which she plans to bargain for, 
the Harlem Congresswoman suggested that 
she might agitate for the selecting of a 
black man as the Democratic vice-pres
idential candidate, for the naming of a 
woman as director of HEW, and for the 
appointment of an Indian to head the De
partment of the Interior.
Qiff Stevens
The commuter doesnt know it, but he 
may not always have to face the rushhour traffic. Neither will he have to fight 
for a seat on a crowded bus, subway, or 
train. Early in the 1980s, a reasonable and 
workable mass transit system could be in 
use. On such system, dual-mode trans
porters, is presently being studied by a 
group of graduate students at CMU.
The urban transportation problem is 
largely one of congestion-controlled ex
pressways and chronic mass transit ills. The 
dual-mode vehicle (car or small bus) is an 
effort to combine the privacy and mobility 
of the auto, with the compactness and 
efficiency of transit. Dual-mode vehicles in 
the manual mode are driven normally on 
regular streets. While on the automated 
guideway, steering and speed control are 
achieved automatically by the vehicle 
and/or the guide way.
Development of a dual-mode system be
gan about ten years ago at MIT. While 
there, Dr. Dwight Baumann supervised the 
three separate student groups which 
worked on the project.
The type of dual-mode vehicle chosen 
for design study has dual guidance arms, 
which grip lateral guiderails, electric power 
pickup for on-board motors, and control 
signals for speed, switching and communi
cations. The required vehicle modifications 
cost between four and seven hundred dol
lars.
Preliminary design, simulation and test
ing indicates that the vehicle is stable. A 
late model Ford mustang has been modi
fied and tested frequently on a two hun
dred foot straight track.
The advantages of a dual-mode system 
are numberous:
1. automobiles can be inexpensively 
modified to work on the system.
2. dual-mode offers the personal com
fort of a car as opposed to a bus or sub
way.
3. While on guideway, both the high
average speed and high traffice density can 
be maintained.
4. accidents due to driver fallibility ) 
would be non-existent as freeway traffic 
would be computer controlled.
5. a dual-mode system is virtually pollu
tion free.
The prototype vehicle and the straight 
track came to CMU about 18 months ago 
when Dr. Baumann accepted an offer of 
full professorship. Since then, Jim Griffin,
A1 Letzt, and Harry. Sepelak, all masters }
candidates in the Mechanical Engineering 
department, have been working on the pro
ject. This is presently the only such work 
being done in the country.
After obtaining an eighty thousand dol
lar grant from the Transportation Research 
Institute, the two hundred foot track was 
set up in Panther Hollow. Improvements in 
the rail entrance procedure and the steering )
mechanism have been made. Unfortunate
ly, money has just about run out, and the 
project seems to be stagnating. Additional 
funds are needed to obtain a new test site 
where curved rail dynamics and guideway 
switches could be studied.
The estimated cost of fully investigating 
and testing the dual-mode system is twenty 
million dollars. This is one tenth of the ^
cost of corresponding figure for skybus. On 
those gounds alone, the dual-mode should *
merit more attention from governmental 
officials. ^/ 1In February, President Nixon ordered
his technology agencies to seek ways that 
could revolutionize commuter transport.
The government may soon appropriate 
some money toward the development of a 
dual-mode system. CMU, Boeing, and Ford 
are the only likely recipients of this 
money.
The first applications of a dual-mode 
system will be associated with urban cen
ters. In the more distant future, perhaps 
twenty years, dual-mode turnpikes could 
be built. While the driver does whatever he 
wants, a computer could speed his car any$ 
where in the country.
