The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 84, Number 5, October 4, 1983.
Its time for midterms and another trip to the counseling center.
Dr. Bailey new GSIA dean
I Moravec
I researches
navy robots
 By LAURA GOLOWICH
I Tarian Staffwriter
Hans Moravec, Research Scientist in the 
I Robotics Institute, is heading the AutonomI ous Underwater Robots project for the 
I department of Defense. The project is being 
I financed by the Navy. Moravec and his assoI dates are conducting the basic research for 
I building mobile robots.
According to Moravec, the great difficulty 
H in building robots lies not in recreating the 
Dthigh level thinking processes of human 
Hf beings but rather the lower level processes of 
I perception and control. Computers can be 
I programmed to play master level chess, he 
I said, but cant play ping pong. People, on 
I the other hand are good at ping pong 
I because, they have been practicing for 500 
I million years, and thus have wellI developed motor and perceptual skills.
People can program computers to solve 
I high level tasks, said Moravec, because we 
I are able to recognize most of the steps that 
CT' we take to solve a problem. On the other 
Wm hand, we cant analyze our lower level proI cesses, such as the visual processes that enaI bie us to see other objects, he said.
One way that we can try to figure out the 
[ circuitry involved in these lower level proI cesses, said Moravec, is to study animals. He 
B added that he obtains some of his data from
 this approach, but that this technique of
II research is much too slow  it would take at 
I least 500 years to find all the answers.
9 Moravec says a better approach to studyftf ing these processes is to set a long range 
I goal, such as intelligence, and to pick a set of 
I constraints and approach the problem in 
I steps. However, he noted, no one can know 
I all the steps before the problem is solved.
Certain mollusks such as octopi and 
| squid, said Moravec, provide us with examI pies of how lower level processes developed. 
I In the process of evolution, these animals 
I abandoned their shells and adopted a 
I mobile way of life. The key is that these
 mollusks, had no grand plan in the beginI ning (to become mobile), but the pressures 
I of surviving steered them that way. In 
I bui ldi ng mobile robots Moravec and his col - 
I leagues must attempt to create the same 
I kinds of pressures.
Building a mobile robot is much more 
I difficult than constructing one that is staI tionary, said Moravec, because it cannot be 
I programmed in the same linear, sequential 
I language. The robots task, for example, 
I might be to go through a door. However,
 because the robot is mobile, it may encounter something in its way, take a wrong turn,
 or find itself on the edge of a stairwell.
At this point, it must temporarily abanI don its task of getting through the door, and 
worry about how to get itself back on its 
track. It must test for danger at each instant, 
I explained Moravec. The machine must be 
programmed with multiple independent 
tasks which decide among themselves what 
their priorities are.
By programming the robots this way 
I Moravec and his colleagues have in fact
 attempted to mirror human emotions. In 
I detecting a danger, for example, the robots 
I Ix havior changes  it must slow down and
continued on page 4
By CHRISTOPHER JOHNSTON
Tartan Associate News Editor
I really have an upbeat view erf this gen
eration, said Dr. Elizabeth E. Bailey, new 
Dean of GSIA. Bailey is one of seven women 
deans of Business Schools in the United 
States.
Im proud to be here. Its very alive. I 
want to understand all the fields, so Im 
sitting in on an accounting class, something 
that I dont know a lot about said Bailey. 
She likes to listen to students and admitted 
that they dont let you get away with a 
thing.
Technology and its interaction in busi
ness decisions is one area into which Bailey 
hopes to take GSIA. For many years GSIA 
recognized the importance of an analytical 
approach to business education, but tended 
to have that analytical approach center 
around models and so forth, not technology. 
Some of the big problems were facing in 
manufacturing and other areas right now 
have to do with people not having been as 
close to technology.
Another problem that Bailey hopes to 
address is entrepreneurship. We want to 
recognize how many erf our graduates five or 
ten years out are going to be in businesses of 
their own, and not assume that everybodys 
going to leave here and go work for a large 
corporation.
ZBT hearing
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
The University Disciplinary Committee 
held ZBTs hearing last Tuesday, September 
27 at 6 p.m. The Disciplinary committee  
consisting erf moderator Earle Swank, two 
faculty members, and two student members
 met with ZBT members and the people 
bringing the charges. The exxmmittees 
recommendation was sent to Dean of Stu
dent Affairs Braden Walter for the final deci
sion. His decision is expected early next 
week. 
Government interaction with business 
will be another issue that Bailey hopes to 
deal with. You ask AT&T, the airlines, the 
banks, what was the difference in their 
industry in the last ten years, it was some 
government decision. I dont think we teach 
people well enough systematically to try to 
figure out when those decisions are 
coming.
Bailey has been on both ends of deregula
tion. She was the first woman appointed to 
the Civil Aeronautics Board that deregu
lated the airlines in January 1983 and 
worked for Bell Laboratories prior to that. 
AT&T is being forced to deregulate at the 
end of this year. Its important to under
stand when you should have government 
intervention and when you should not Its 
likely to be two reverse circumstances. In 
aviation, the models the first people had 
were incorrect. In telecommunications, 
theyre saying heres how we should cut the 
pie. Im not sure whether theyve been suc
cessful. In aviation, we never said that We 
just let competitive forces work. com
mented Bailey, but admitting that she is on 
the borderline in telecommunications.
I think if my predecessor were just com
ing in right now I think he would pick very 
similar areas. said Bailey. She feels that her 
plans are an evolutinary step for GSIA to 
take. Take Cyert when he was dean getting 
started here. What was needed then was to 
bring analytical orientation to business edu
cation so thats what they did. Tha; s 
already been done, so I cant come and do it 
and pretend that Im doing it.
The AMS department has been restruc
tured and the curriculum upgraded. Weve 
been working all summer and Im going to 
be going over some recoomendations that 
have been made by the faculty team of 
Crebol, and Jim Noel. said Bailey. Some of 
the restructuring will be the moving of 
courses for AMS students that are senior year 
down to junior year. Bailey also hopes to 
continued on page 5
Philosophy 
task force
By KAREN TYLAK
Tartan Staffwriter
Last year John P. Crecine, then H&SS 
Dean, established an interdisciplinary task 
force on philosophy. The task force con
sisted of Preston Covey (chairman). Director 
of the Philosophy Program; David Carrier, 
also from Philosophy; Jay Kadane of the 
Social Sciences and Statistics Departments; 
Dana Scott, University Professor of Compu
ter Science and Mathematical Logic; and 
Richard Young, then chairman of the Eng
lish Department The commission to the 
task force, according to Covey, was to set 
priorities for the development of an approp
riate research and teaching agenda for the 
philosophy faculty, to oversee the recruit
ment of new philosophy faculty, and to 
assess the desirability of creating an inde
pendent Philosophy Department.
In both research and teaching, the Philo
sophy Program aims to develop strengths 
that both exploit and serve areas in which 
CMU enjoys some advantage over other uni
versities. The agenda includes theoretical 
and applied logic; the philosophy of 
science, emphasizing economics, soc ial and 
cognitive science; applied interdisciplinary 
studies in philosophy, technology and pub
lic policy; methodological, epistemological 
and normative studies in aesthetics, ethics, 
social-political philosophy, argumentation 
and analytic reasoning. Development of 
these areas will be advanced by the present 
and pending new appointments to the phi
losophy faculty.
Professor dark Glymour, an eminent 
philosopher erf science, has been offered the 
position erf head of the prospective Philo
sophy Department Glymour is presendy 
head of the History and Philosophy of 
Science Department at the University of 
Pittsburgh. If he accepts the offer, he will 
assume this position next year. This year he 
will be visiting on a part-time basis and 
co-teaching a course next semester in the 
Statistics Department with Jay Kadane.
Joining the philosophy staff this fall are 
Ernest Alieva (Columbia University), Leslie 
Burkholder (M.I.T.), and James Scheuer
mann (University of Chicago). Alieva is 
interested in issues erf justice, social and eco
nomic theory, and problems of workplace 
democracy and worker-owned economic 
enterprises. He has undertaken case studies 
continued on page 4
In this issue
Editorial
Freshman wrnes home.....................page 2
News
Blood drive.........................................page 5
A Phi O benefit................................page 19
Features
Wasserman condemns Nukes .... page 7
A munchies cure to bank on..........page 7
Entertainment
Beyond the Limit reviewed..........page 11
Sports
Tartans trounce Thiel...................page 13
Birdy can help!....................... page 17

---------------------------------------------------

IresacehGk
Is CMU anything to write home about?
Dear Mom and Dad,
Well, Ive been at CMU for about a month 
now. We still dont have phone service, so 
dont try to call. Probably shouldnt mail any
thing either; Ill be home for Thanksgiving, 
and it wont get here before then.
They fixed our door yesterday so it locks. We 
found out today that our keys dont work. 
Overall, though, the dorms arent that bad, 
except that I had to wait a whole two hours for 
a shower today. The computers must be down 
again; all the hackers are home.
Im finally starting to find my way around 
Morewood. I wonder why the upperclassmen 
dont know where anything is. Its like they
ripped up the entire place or something.
My roommate must really be into video 
games. He went out and'bought a Star Wars 
game. I dont know where he got it, but its 
fun. For some reason, though, he doesnt want 
the RA to find out. Probably afraid there 
would be too many people in here.
I saw my first dramat today. I was sitting in 
the Grill wiping the grease off my fries when 
this weirdo stood up and started yelling about 
getting screwed by computers and not being 
able to get a job. Seniors. Always griping about 
jobs. Anyway, he started throwing food across 
the room and jumping on tables and stuff. 
When he hit the cashier with an apple they 
carted him off.
Oh, yeah, I went to a frat party last night, 
Boy, the guys there are really friendly to us 
freshmen. They send out personalized invita
tions to their parties, and keep offering us free 
food and stuff, and they seem to be nice to the 
women. You should see what Scott did last 
night. He almost broke the drinking record. 
Neat. He didnt quite make it. The frat boys 
were nice and carried him home to Morewood 
when he passed out. Hell probably be okay 
when he comes home from the hospital.
Maybe Ill pledge, so I can keep going to' 
their parties.
Well, I have to go. Calculus is about to end.
Joe
Companies abuse bankruptcy laws to break contracts
By Stuart Shapiro
If Neil Simon ever writes a play based 
upon the tragicomedy currently being 
played out by Continental Air Lines and 
Eastern Airlines, he can simply entide it 
Chapter Eleven.
Actually, theres nothing all 
that funny about something 
that threatens to make weaseling out of labor contracts a national pas
time. It appears that as an alternative to 
bargaining in good faith, American corpo
rations can instead file for bankruptcy in 
bad faith.
Of course, nothing is ever quite that sim
ple and the controversy over Eastern and 
Continental is no exception. There remain a 
lot of unanswered questions.
Just what exacdy is the current financial 
condition of both Eastern and Continental? 
Given the price wars that deregulation has 
brought, its hardly inconceivable that more 
than a couple of the big carriers are in prec
arious financial shape. That many of the 
larger carriers have more often than not been 
losing money hand over fist for a few years is 
no great revelation. And yet, the reactions of 
Continental and Eastern are still puzzling.
If the balance sheets look so bad, why 
didnt Continental take more measured, less
drastic steps earlier to cut costs? Certainly 
the writing on the wall must have been 
apparent to Continental executives long 
before now. Why were no attempts made to 
negotiate with employees before the com
pany reached the point of no return (assum
ing we take their word for it)? If 
Continentals labor costs are in fact so exces
sive, why did they agree to them in the first 
place? Nobody held a gun to managements 
collective head, forcing acceptance of a con
tract it couldnt afford. (Speaking of man
agement, how much are their salaries being 
cut?) If the labor contract Continental man
agement negotiated was so unaffordable,
Continental obviously needs new manage
ment. Instead, the managers stay while labor 
must decide whether to take a walk or take 
the shaft. '
Eastern appears somewhat less culpable 
than Continental. It negotiated an agree
ment with labor last spring that was to have 
reduced labor costs by 200 million dollars 
through 1984. But while Easterns severe 
financial difficulties were not dropped like a 
bomb upon its employees, its threat to resort 
to Chapter 11 unless granted huge wage 
concessions still seems just a bit too sudden 
and unexpected to be justified, especially in 
continued on page i
Only join frats if people are worthwhile
Editor
The recent incident involving brothers 
from the ZBT fraternity, and several fresh
men, should cause anyone who is consider
ing pledging a house on Pledge Night to 
seriously reflect on (if not reconsider) that 
coming decision. It is sad that the incident 
occurred, but lets not be too hard on ZBT. 
What is sadder is that it could have hap
pened at any house on the Quad.
I was an active member erf one erf the 
campus fraternities here during my under
graduate years. In general, it was a pe>sitive 
experience; I count some erf the fellows from 
the house among my closest friends. But - 
and this is important -- I think that they 
would have been my close friends even if I 
had not joined their fraternity.
There is nothing magical about belong
ing to a fraternal organization that makes it 
easier to build relationships. Now, dont get 
me wrong. There is a great opportunity for 
shared experiences in a fraternity, but the 
opportunities are not any better than those 
in the dormitories -- only different. In fact, 
the close living in a fraternity house is as 
conducive to building enmity as it is to 
building friendships.
Heres the test that you should apply to 
any fraternity, before considering member
ship: Have the people in that house tried to 
be your friend? Now, notice that I am not 
asking whether they supplied free beer, or 
dance music, e>r pretty girls. Once you join, 
the beer isnt free, the dance music is coming 
out erf your dues, and the pretty girls are 
interested in the beer and the music, not in 
you. Well, some of them are interested in 
you ... but the same is true out in the dorms.
What I am saying is that, after the excite
ment erf Rush dies down, after the parties are 
over (they mestly end after Pledge Night, 
you know), and after Midterms, what you 
are left with is just peejple - the other guys 
wearing the same Greek letters that you are. 
You had better hope that at least erne or two
of those guys is interested in you as a person.
Ask yourself: how interested have those 
Greeks been in my life? Sure, they come to 
my room and invite me to their parties. But 
do they ever come over when its not offi
cial business? Have they done something 
with me that I like to do? Have any of them 
done things with me that didnt have the 
RUSH label stamped all over it?
Consider the party posters that say Fresh
men and Women Invited. After Pledge 
Night, did you know that most of the pes
ters will then say Women Invited? No 
more freshmen. And definitely no upper
classmen. Ask yourself: if these Greeks want 
so badly for me to be their brother, why 
does that warm friendly feeling stop after 
Pledge Night? Why does it stop when I 
become a sophomore?
Lets say that you meet someone who says 
that he wants to establish a relationship 
with you. He seems friendly, and you begin
to like him as a friend. Then he says to you, 
I want to be your friend. I want to get to 
know you better, and to do things with you. 
But if you dont commit yourself totally to 
me by the middle of next month, forget it. 
Ill never want to spend time with you 
again. Would you accept a friendship 
under those terms?
Its pretty clear to everyone, after last 
weeks incident, that there are some people 
over in the Quad who are more interested in 
saving their own skins than in preserving 
the health (yes, and the life) of these fresh
men who they want so badly to join their 
organizations. If you are a freshman, and 
you are considering membership in a frater
nity, make sure that you get past the parties, 
the alcohol, and the all-for-one-and-one-forall spirit on the surface, and take a gexxi hard 
look at the people that you may be spending 
your next four years with.
If you find the people worthy, then join.
Talk to Academic Affairs
Editor:
Tired of complaining about classes when 
you think no one hears? Know about a great 
professor whose style youd like to see 
imitated, but dont know who to tell? The 
place to air your criticisms and suggestions 
has always been on campus, up to now an 
unintentional secret.
The Academic Affairs committee on Stu
dent Senate is the students liason with the 
teaching center and departments. Soon we 
will be running the ARP campaign: the 
Academic Response Program in which we 
ask for observations on courses, teaching, 
and majors. There shall be advertisements 
in The Tartan, a gripe table in the gray 
matter, posters, and remark forms.
So, anytime you have constructive com
ments about anything academic, please send 
them to Academic Affairs Committee, do
Student Senate, Skibo Information desk, or 
call one of the members: Adolph DiSandro 
681-8427, Pauline Kramer x4609, Jon Maiman x4216, Todd Rieman x5997, Cindy 
Taylor x4831.
Cindy Taylor 
John Maiman, Chairman 
Academic Affairs Committee
Opinion Policy
Editorials appear at the top of page two, and are the 
official opinion of The Tartan Editorial Board. Columns are the opinions of individual authors who 
are usually on The Tartan staff, but the opinions are 
not necessarily those of The Tartan Editorial Board. Letim to the editor are opinions of individual authors 
who are usually members of the University commun
ity. A letter intended for publication must be signed and 
include the wnters address and phone number for 
verification. Names will be withheld upon request. The Tartan resemes the right to condense or reject any 
letter.
Youll have a lot of fun, and youll make 
some gexxl friends who will last a lifetime. 
But if theyre not worthy, stay away. Youll 
still have a lot of fun, and youll still make 
good friends who will last a lifetime. That is 
a result of the whole college environment; 
the fraternities dont have a monopoly on it.,
Steve Lammert 
Research Programmer 
Electrical and Computer Engineering
TTielrtm
Editor in Chief...................................Monica CellioManaging Editor..............................Gregg BossierBusiness Manager.............................. Kathy WasdiNews Editor..........................................Pauline WenFeatures Editor..............................Pauline Kramer*Entertainment Editor................... Susan PetrieSports Editor..........................................Ric MedrowPhoto Editor.........................................Steve WinawerProduction Manager...............Carolyn SperanzaAd Manager..........................................Bonnie TopfTypesetting Manager.........................Patti CarlisleArt Director...................................Michael SussmanContributing Editor....................Vincent GuintoAssoc. News Editor .... Christopher JohnstonAssistant News Editor.........................Doug BlairAsst Sports Editor..................Christopher Lewis ;Asst. Photo Editor...........................Mike Pilewski ;Asst Production Mgr..............................Bob Aarhus^Asst Ad Manager.............................Andrew Ghali \Classifieds................................................Tara DieguezSubscriptions.............................................Kelly DoylfBusiness Assistant....................Dana PottenbergerProduction Staff: P. Bain, S. Bozic, L. Brunker, D Eggert, N. Greenblum, M. Rivas, J. Suzuki, S. Volan, M. Sitter.
Copyright  1983 by The Tartan. The Editorial Board reserves the right to withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50, (412) 578-2111. Business Offices: Skibo 52, (412) 578-2112. 24 hour phone, (412) 578-2113. Mailing address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pittsburgh PA 15213 , Funded by the Activities Fee.All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

0
October 4, 1983The TartanPage 3
Porn censorship justified
Editor;
I am writing in response to a letter pub
lished in the September 13 Tartan by Jeffrey 
L. Kenausis protesting the administrations 
cancelling four showings of the film Deep 
Throat. By claiming that the main issue 
here is not one of pornography, but rather 
one of censorship and one of freedom, the 
writer demonstrates a rather shallow under
standing of freedom. Censorship always has 
been and always will be necessary in order to 
preserve freedom. A totally unrestrained 
freedom of speech, for example, will inevita
bly infringe upon the right to be protected 
from malicious slander. Censorship pre
serves our rights; it is the protector, not the 
enemy of freedom.
The real issue is not whether theadministration should exercise censorship but rather 
how and when. Did the administration act 
judiciously in banning the showing of Deep 
Throat on campus? I firmly believe it did. 
Because most people in our society do not 
wish to live in an environment where 
human sexuality is flagrandy debased 
through the public exhibition of sexual acts, 
we have laws that restrict the showing of 
pornographic films. By prohibiting the 
presentation of Deep Throat on our cam
pus, the administration reflected the spirit of 
these laws and protected the rights of people 
who wish to preserve the dignity of human 
sexuality.
Sincerely,
Christian W. Hallstein 
Assistant Professor of German
Greeks benefit campus
Editor:
When you try to decide what on organiza
tion's benefits are, you. look at its positive 
and negative aspects. Criticism can be a 
healthy method of showing where improve
ment is needed, but to concentrate too heav
ily on imperfections can defeat this purpose. 
Just as a reminder, United Fraternal Organ
ization would like to briefly tell about Greek 
involvement on campus.
(1) Major CMU Events
Would Homecoming be the same with
out the Greek floats, Homecoming Kings 
and Queens, and contest participation? 
How about a Spring Carnival without 
Greeks buggies and booths? There are seven
teen UFO organizations on campus who 
can make the group efforts necessary for 
successful large-scale campus events.
(2) Philanthropy Projects
Last year Greek Sing raised $4000 for 
Easter Seals, and a UFO Philanthropy Pro
ject collected $1500 for a girl who needed a 
bone marrow transplant. The Panhel 
Pledge Balloon Launching Project brought 
in $280 for the Oakland Womens Center. 
Also, individual houses sponsored events 
such as Pole Sit, Dance-A-Thon, Bed Push, 
Blood Drive, etc. for needy organizations.
(^Weekend Festivities
Since fraternities and sororities are group 
of friends, they like to throw their own par
ties and have a good time. They often 
encourage members of the opposite sex 
attend to get a better male to female ratio. 
But other friends can also come if theyre put
on a guest list or invited. Fraternity and 
Sorority parties are not just for Greeks.
The Greek organizations on campus have 
put a lot of effort into making these events 
and projects successful. We hope that eve
ryone can benefit from the Greek system at 
CMU.
Cheryl Potter 
United Fraternal Organization
KVirt
ORCetfntPE ?
Age 18 is too young for drinking
Editor:
It was so discouraging to read in The 
Tartan the letter from the person saying he 
was old enough to fight and vote, why 
should he not be considered old enough to 
drink.
I myself have been on both sides of the 
questions. I at one time favored everyone 
being age eighteen receiving the right to 
drink. However, I have so recendy lost 
friends who turned eighteen and died in an 
alcohol related accident that I can no longer 
accept the request from these people for the 
right to drink alcohol at such an age.
Alcohol is the number one poison in the 
nation. It has caused more problems that it 
supposedly solves. It would be so nice if by 
having a drink with ones enemies, a conclu
sion could be reached as to the reasons for 
being friends.
It is not that easy. The biological effects of 
alcohol on the body are only beginning to 
be known. There is the Fetal Alcohol Syn
drome afflicting infants whose mothers con
sumed alcohol during pregnancy. There are 
billions of lost work hours created by 
workers too sick to produce their optimum 
quantity of goods because of being hung 
over from an alcohol bash.
The writer and those like him also do not 
realize that along with the right comes the 
responsibility. While the writer may be no 
harm to any one, while under the influence 
of alcohol, others are dangerous. Try telling 
a mother that her son has been killed 
because he was involved in a car wreck that 
had alcohol as its provocateur. Yet, sup
posedly he had the responsibility to know 
that he should not have driven while he had 
alcohol in his body.
While the debate goes on in all ievels of 
this campus, the writer is addressing the 
wrong person. President Cyert is only doing 
what is his responsibility, as a leader and as a 
man responsible to the public, to see to it
that the university does not violate any of the 
laws of Pennsylvania. If the writer has gone 
to any of the recent fraternity parties or any 
of the parties in the nearby neighborhood, 
he would have seen several violations of the 
law as I did myself in driving past last wee
kend. I was stunned that there were so many 
students who were clearly under age and 
under the influence of alcohol. If any of the 
Liquor Control Board had seen what I have 
seen this last weekend and on the previous 
weekends, this university would have been 
involved in some very serious legal batdes.
Perhaps if the writer of the letter had been 
placed in the position of telling a mother to
her face or a father to his face, that their son 
or daughter had died because of consuming 
too much alcohol, had been killed in a car 
wreck, or had been arrested for disorderly 
conduct while under the influence of alco
hol, he would think twice about urging that 
this state lower its drinking age.
H. E. Witt
Nate mourns female failures in policy
By Nate Solano
A villanous problem rose to my attention 
this week. No, not alcohol abuse; thats a 
national problem that probably has at some 
time or another plagued even Oral Roberts 
(the college, not the person). 
Rather, the problem concerns 
the rapidly increasing male to 
female ratio at our university. 
The accompanying graph (Based on actual 
Housing Offices statistics) should explain 
our dilemma. After four years of slow but 
steady progression towards a 50/50 popula
tion of males and females, the campus
population of males has statistically sky
rocketed past the previous high of 1978-79.
The obvious conclusion to be drawn is 
computer technology (or IBM) encourages 
males and repels females. The obvious 
course of action:
(1) Return to the adequate Dec-20 
computer system.
(2) Refuse admission of males for the 
period of one year due to some contrived 
health hazard.
Failure to pursue these recommendations 
can only be interpreted as contemptuous 
behaviour on the part of the Administration 
and will probably go unpunished.
NOTE TO THE FEMALE READER: 
Ihis column is rational and not sexist, just 
be glad you are not a male.
I will be found in my office this week 
Wednesday from 3:30 to 5:00 pm and Thurs
day from 8:30 to 9:45 pm. Come in and see 
the tacky new furniture (you paid for it). 
Persecutors call 687-6404.
NEXT WEEK: The Resume: Power on 
Paper.
Epilogue: Its Sunday night and Ive just 
been informed that my column has been 
washed in favor of the more lengthy (and 
more useless) column of Orpheus Allison.
However, Monica (in her infinite wis
dom) has given me the opportunity to 
extend my own column in order to replace 
that of Orpheus. So that you (the reader) will 
not feel deprived of some potentially greater 
work, I include the first five lines of the 
displaced column:
CAVEMEN NEEDED TO EXPRESS 
THEMSELVES AND INVENTED 
NOUNS:
 Ugh, said the first caveman.
 Ugh, said the second cave man.
 Oh, said the first.
 Uh, said the second.
The defense rests.
Now on another note, I had hoped to re
frain from comment on the topic of alcohol 
abuse at CMU, however I do think a quali
fied opinion is warranted after last weeks 
fiasco.
Alcohol abuse is quite a serious problem; 
however let us not deceive ourselves that this 
is a problem unique to our campus, nor our 
state or even country. Recent incidents pro
voked considerable reaction from students, 
administration, and the surrounding com
munity. Unfortunately this is not necessar
ily warranted. These incidents identify a 
weakness in our present alcohol policy:
however, the repercussions of a modified 
system might be far greater.
Our Justice System (USA) works under 
the pretense that a far greater evil is done 
when an innocent person is imprisoned that 
when a guilty person is freed; consequently 
legal technicalities release more than their 
share of criminals each year. This is a weak
ness in our judicial system, yet a far greater 
weakness would deny the greater populace 
constitutional rights in the pursuit of 
criminals.
Freshperson alcohol abuse is more a 
result of naivety than irresponsibility. Wish
ing to emulate upperclass person vices, they 
make mistakes (Ive been there, I know). So 
be it. A brush with death is never a laughing 
matter but neither is an organization which 
feels that policy should be formed in a reac
tionary manner without proper considera
tion being given basic human rights and 
needs. A more strict alcohol policy will pre
vent the abuse of alcohol no more than 
mid-semester break prevents suicides (Ill 
tell vou that story some other time).
Sermons over, we now present our uthes 
and offerings.
More opinion on page 9

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanOctober 4, 1983
Experimental robots
> ft, si
continued from page 1
examine the obstacle. In this sense, then, the 
robot is experiencing fear.
The process of constructing a mobile 
robot is extremely long and tedious. We 
have 500 million years of catching up to do, 
said Moravec. Once he and his colleagues 
build a robot that can walk through a door, 
he said, they will then build one that can 
enter a room, and pick up a cup in a sea of 
clutter. For this robot, they will be using an
array processor, which will do the calcula
tions one hunded times faster than their 
standard computers.
According to Moravec, he and his asso
ciates are letting the experimental results 
dictate the next steps toward building more 
advanced robots. If certain processes are eas
ier than they had anticipated, he said, then 
they will move more in that direction. 
Ultimately, he said, robots should be able to 
do everything that people can do.
SKI---------------
Everyone who lusts wildly for your body wishes 
you the most orgasmic birthday possible!
The sisters of Kappa Kappa Gamma welcome their new pledges: Chris Hayes, Debbie 
Smoyer, and Maureen Mullen.
Philosophy department
Subscriptions
will be mailed out 
beginning 
October 11, 1983
All back issues (to Sept. 6) will be 
mailed at this time.
continued from page 1
as well as philosophic research in these 
areas. Alieva will also be serving as faculty 
advisor to the Philosophy Club.
Social choice and public policy issues, 
particularly problems in societal risk assess
ment, are a major concern of Professor Burk
holder. His interests also include logic, the 
philosophy of mind, and philosophic and 
sodal-ethical issues attending the advance of 
computer technology.
Professor Scheuermann, a scholar of the 
moral philosophy of Immanuel Kant, has 
applied decision and game theory to prob
lems in the justification and application of 
ultimate moral principles. He is also 
interested in issues of justice and economics, 
problems erf conflict resolution in interna
tional relations, and the theory of argument 
Scheuermann will be co-teaching the busi
ness ethics course with Tom Kerr for GSIA 
next semester.
The establishment of the task force on 
philosophy was the practical beginning of 
the movement towards an independent phi
losophy department, remarked Covey. 
Although our basic priorities are just now 
being realized, they have been pretty well set 
for a long time; the interdisciplinary thrust 
of the program is a natural development in 
CMUs highly interactive environment. 
The overall objectives of the philosophy 
group include developing an educational 
program with balanced emphasis on ana
lytic reasoning skills, rigorous methodol
ogy, normative theory, and their 
applications to interdisciplinary issues. To 
this end, several new courses have been deve
loped and will be offered beginning next 
semester. They include Argument: Logic, 
Epistemology, and Rhetoric; Knowledge 
and Truth (emphasizing issues of objectiv
ity in value disputes); Philosophic Issues in 
Policy Analysis, Markets and Ethics; and 
Advanced Aesthetics.
Look for the Student Corp Fridays 
in the Gray Matter
Campus Cheese Co.
October 4. 21 
November 4, 18
And Everything Nice (Flower Co.)
October 14, 28 
November 11, 22 (Tuesday)
December 2
^itoDD 2>Y 
-JiyttAt

---------------------------------------------------

October 4, 1983The TartanPage 5
GSIA s Dean Bailey talks about teaching and sexism
continued from page 1
change the rules of where students are 
allowed to take electives. Theyre going to 
have to have a little deeper knowledge in the 
basic fundamental areas of business disci
plines. added Bailey.
Bailey believes that young professors can 
succeed in the University if they can achieve 
a balance between research and teaching. If 
youre in a research University, as well as a 
teaching University as we are, you have to 
look at a persons qualities from 1 to 10 and 
you have to insist upon excellence in at least 
one of the dimensions and high competence 
in another. You cant have a zero in 
research. she said.
Different disciplines require different 
amounts of research. In a Ph.d program, 
you have to gear yourself toward the real 
research, but in delivery of some of the 
undergraduate courses well bring in an 
adjunct from downtown who is not 
expected to do any research, but who is att
ached to the University. she said.
The new Dean believes that present 
society is less sexist because this generation 
of men has grown up. she commented. 
Theyre much more open to the fact that 
women want to excel and do their own 
thing, I dont see this attitude happening 
twenty years ago, but I do see it happening 
now.
The new Dean also cited male pride in 
female achievements as one reason for the 
break-down in sexist barriers and the change 
in child-bearing attitudes. Certainly birth
control had something to do with it and the 
amount ot services in the child-bearing 
Infrastructure really permits women for the 
first time in history to have both functions.
Blood drive successful
By PAULINE WEN
Tartan News Editor
295 people participated in last weeks 
Blood Drive, sponsored by Housing and pro
moted by the RAs. Third floor Boss Hall 
and RA Dan Malinaric won Housings 
prize of a free dinner. They had the highest 
percentage of donors on their floor.
The Blood Drive was held Tuesday and 
Wednesday, September 27 and 28 from noon 
to 6:45 p.m. in the Morewood Rec Room. 
The RAs helped by giving refreshments to 
donors and making sure the donors were 
properly cared for. Initially 350 signed up to 
give blood, but due to colds and other 
illnesses many had to withdraw.
Drr.BraiB
SdENTS who NEEd ASSSTANCE Wh COl'
Dthit woRk STudy job gDbetnstnad should
REqiSTER MIVIEdiATEly N liE FINANAI
Aid OfficE.
REqiSTRATON TMES ARE:
MoNdAy ThROtqh FmdAy The
9:45 Irer 
sac ha Irer 
sscsG Irer 
1:50 p.M.
2:1 5 p.M. 
5:00 p.M. 
5:45 p.M.
COUNSELING AND 
STUDENT DEVELOPMENT 
CENTER* 
presents WORKSHOPS on 
MANAGING STRESS:
Wed., 10/19 - 11/19, 4:30-6:00 p.m.
EFFECTIVE STUDY SKILLS:
Thurs., 10/20 - 11/10, 4:30-6:00 p.m.CONFIDENCE IN COMMUNICATION:ASSERTIVE SOCIAL SKILLS
Thurs., 10/20 - 11/10, 4:00-6:00 p.m.
To register, call 578-2922. Enrollment limited. 
*Diuision of Student Affairs
HIGH-TECH OPPORTUNITIES
CORPORATE INFORMATION SYSTEMS is a leader in the highly specialized 
fields of software and products development.
Dynamic growth over the past four years has made CIS one of the most 
successful firms of its kind. Our expansion in the Pittsburgh, Houston, and 
Orlando areas is directly attributed to the uniquesness of our service, 
combined with a highly qualified stuff of professionals accepting challenging 
and creative opportunities.
If you possess a Ph.D. or Masters Degree in the following areas, please call or 
forward your resume to the address below.
Physics
Mech./Engr./Fluid Flow & Heat Tranfer 
Math Modeling 
CORPORATE INFORMATION SYSTEMS 
850 Boyce Road 
Bridgeville, PA 15017 
(412) 221-4410
-MONDAY NIGHT 
FOOTBALL!
WEDNESDAY NIGHT 
IS DYNASTY NIGHT!
-MTV AFTER 2 PM
3612 FIFTH AVENUE OAKLAND 
681-3100
?ALL THE 
SPAGHETTI 
YOU CAN EAT!
SATURDAY 
& SUNDAY
PIZZA*PASTA*SALAD 
SPAGHETTIBEER*WINE 
? WE DEUVER! 
OAKLAND AREA
$5 MINIMUMCoupons expire 10/31
coupon and , % 
pay 99e tor a O' super slice of Pan 
Pizza with purchase 
of regular soft drink
^ r [\ uiKh\ \u IVh
3612 FIFTH AVENUE 
OttUANO 
1 3100
Present ttus
muaa Mil V' # I fVJIlcoupon and # \ 
pay 99e tor a W super slice of Pan 
Pizza with purchase 
of regular soft drink
rs i Nwsp araof
ANY 
SANDWICH
12 FIFTH AVENUE 
OAKLAND 
Ml 31fl0
A WHOLE 
PAN PIZZA

---------------------------------------------------

ORAW HERi
PIZ2/^
Jiang in there. If you can get through ai the hard work while putting up with all the distractions, (Q u |f 
vi Ki'fl be ready for anything. Including graduation. What 's more, you'fl have a real education.Im .1 h*vi>4<>r i*siersend your name and address to Free Poster. Dept C. PO Box 1166 Pitt stxirgh. Fft 15230 * Gulf Oil Corporation  1983 

---------------------------------------------------

bnhsfcnik
No such thing as "safe dose" of radiation
Teaching Center lecture series beginsSimon explains teaching pitfalls and problems
By MONICA SAFRIN
Tartan Staffivriter
Herbert Simon, Richard King Mellon 
Professor of Computer Sciences and Psy
chology, spoke about The Implications of 
Research in Complex Information Process
ing for Teaching at CMU last Monday in 
the Adamson Wing. His was the first of a 
series of lectures being sponsored by the 
Teaching Center this year.
Simon began his talk with some obvious 
things about teaching which he felt that he 
and his audience  composed for the most 
part of teachers  would be in agreement 
about. The first thing, he said, is that 
teaching, like medicine or engineering, is an 
art, that is, a collection of skills that has to be 
practiced. Practitioners of teaching, particu
larly the people we call good teachers, know 
some basic principles ... and apply them in 
their daily practice of teaching.
The first [principle], continues Simon, 
is that its clearly a good idea to have some 
knowledge of the subject that youre going 
to teach. This is probably die principle 
which is best observed in the actual practice 
of university teaching. He remarked that 
most people at Camegie-Mellon know a 
great deal about the subject theyre going to 
teach; most often they know more about the 
subject than their students do.
Simon then cited a second principle: the 
variable [called] motivation is crucial. In 
fact, you cant induce a student to leam any 
subject unless that student is motivated to 
leam. Most people who teach know that one 
thing that motivates students very strongly 
is their own interest in what theyre doing 
and the subject theyre teaching, and a rather 
negative thing, the absence of hostility 
toward students. Simon reminded his 
audience that the only quality students find 
inexcusable in a teacher is disdain  for the 
students personalities, knowledge, etc.
Another thing that a lot of teachers 
know, Simon went on, is that you cant 
educate students unless theyre awake. One 
way to keep them awake is to be very loud 
and lively. He added that he found his 
habit of pacing back and forth a very effec
tive way to get his students to leam more. 
The last piece of common sense Simon
entails simply learning how to do some
thing. As a result, the individual is seldom 
able to apply what he has learned to other 
situations.
Formal learning, which is preferable to 
learning by rote, involves having the solu
tion to a problem explained. This method 
increases the chance that an individual will 
be able to apply his knowledge to other 
situations.
The most effective of the three types of 
learning discussed is that which employs 
heuristics. This method of learning is effi
cient, easily retained, and transferable to 
other tasks.
Questions posed to Simon when he 
opened the floor to discussion revealed that 
the audience had been paying close atten
tion to the lecture. Maybe they learned 
something.
Machines supply munchies
photo by Geof Becker
HERBERT SIMON
mentioned was that preparing a lecture is 
not simply a matter of organizing topics to 
be discussed. Preparing for a class session  
a potential learning experience  is to con
sider the inherent logic of the material and 
to think a great deal about the student. It is 
hard to produce learning experiences for the 
s. jdents unless one knows what is going on 
in their heads.
Simon devoted the remainder of his lec
ture to a description of what we can leam 
from complex information processing. 
Using numerous examples, he distin
guished among three types of learning: rote, 
formal, and heuristic. Learning by rote
By GREG CAMPBELL
Tartan Staffivriter
You have a problem. It is late Saturday 
night. You have been out partying and now 
you have the munchies. There is only one 
solution to this problem - you must get a piz
za. But now you have another problem - no 
money. What to do? The banks are all 
closed at this hour and all of your friends are 
as broke as you are. Suddenly an idea comes to 
you. You whip out your banking card and 
race to the nearest banking machine. You 
insert the card, press a few buttons, and in a 
matter of seconds you have money. You can 
smell that pizza cooking.
This is a typical scenario which I am sure 
most students are familiar with. We all get 
the late night munchies and we all desper
ately need pizza. But just a few years ago this 
desire would have gone unfulfilled. Why? 
Because there were no such things as bank
ing machines. Of the three machines located 
in Skibo, two were installed last year. The 
other was moved from upstairs, where it had 
been previously.
The banking machine, for those of vou 
not familiar with them (there may be one or 2 
of you), is a machine through which you can 
perform a variety of banking functions. You 
can deposit money, withdraw money, pay 
large tuition bills, check your balance, and 
almost anything else you can think of. 
And these machines are veiy easy to operate. 
All that you need to do is insert your bank
ing card and enter your secret account 
number. The machine will then explain 
how to carry out the particular function you 
are interested in. You simply press a few 
continued on page 19
photo by Pauline Kramer 
Patricia M. Waldinger, assistant vice presi
dent and manager of Mellon Banks Univer
sity Office, congratulating CMU student 
Keia Burks, winner of a Ross bike. Mellon 
Bank sponsored the contest as part of a pro
motion of their two Skibo banking 
machines.
By JANICE BULLARD
Tartan StaffivriUr
Concluding an informative presentation 
discussing nuclear power, Harvey Wasserman stated that its time to acknowledge 
the fact that there are no safe doses of radia
tion. Were finding more danger than we 
ever believed. As long as the production of 
nuclear warheads continues, there will be 
more spills, more dying ... I think we will 
have a nuclear freeze, but I think it is up to us 
to make it happen.
Wasserman first became involved in the 
movement against nuclear plants in his 
home town, and gradually became more 
involved. I thought I would spend my life 
as a historian . . . After writing a history of 
the United States, he was sent by Rolling 
Stone to cover the Three Mile Island inci
dent in Harrisburg.
After in-depth studies all over the world, 
he has realized that the public is not aware 
that radiation is far more dangerous than 
generally believed. He cited numerous 
examples of the extensive effects of acciden
tal radiation leakage or testing that our 
government has either ignored or deliber
ately hidden.
Camegie-Mellon students who attended 
the lecture vocalized their concerns. One stu
dent asked, What is the most effective way
we could immobilize nuclear plants? Was
serman suggested that we not pay our elect
ric bills.
Another concern of the audience involved 
the attitude of other nations toward nuclear 
energy. Wasserman indicated that western 
European countries, on the large part, have 
slowed down. France, though, is still con
tinuing with plants in Tahiti.
One students question focused on the 
governments treatment of those affected by 
radiation (i.e. farmers, families with infants 
lost as a result of radiation, etc.). What kind 
of studies have been conducted? According 
to Wasserman, not many: People are stu
diously not looking. Rights are being vio
lated, he says, and this should be revealed to 
the public.
Disposal of nuclear waste is a problem 
that is far too ignored. Even Wasserman 
could not offer a solution, and he doesnt 
know if one will be found.
One student confronted Wasserman: 
What alternatives are there? We need 
energy. Answer: The cost of nuclear 
power plants has gone sky high. The qual
ity is disastrous. Some alternatives include 
natural gas, solar energy, hydroelectric, 
geothermal, and tidal. If we can split an 
atom, we can harness the sun ... If we could 
destroy Russia with solar power . . .
photo by Steve Winawer
Harvey Wasserman in the Ballroom last Wednesday, discussing nuclear power plant flaws.

---------------------------------------------------

OPEN MEETING
onCOMPUTING
Wednesday, October 5, 1983 
7:00 - 9:00 p.m.
2210 Doherty Hall .
TOPICS
 Organizational Changes, University Computing 
Center, Timetables
J. P. Crecine, Sr. Vice President for Academic Affairs
 Computation Center Move, TOPS-20 Accounts 
Division, Rates Changes, Public Access to PCs,
Networking for PCs, Software Staff Status 
Bob Cape, Director, Academic Computing
 Personal Computer Support, Plans for Personal 
Computer Store
Bill Sholar, Personal Computer Support Group
Encore of September 7th OPEN MEETING
 Plans for Information Technology Center, Sche
dule for Release of ITC Systems
Jim Morris, Director, Information Technology Center
 Educational Computing: Planning for Research, 
Development and Support
Jill Larkin, Assistant Professor, Psychology
 Personal Computer Support, Office Automation 
Support
J. Ray Scott, Director, Administrative Systems
 Personal Computer Delivery Status, PC Grant 
Program
Doug Van Houweling, Vice Provost, Computing and
Planning
Liberty
Tubes
UpperLewiEntrance Bu tiding
LAUREL
CAVERNS
Caving Adventure at LAUREL CAVERNS
Rt. 40 East of Uniontown, Pennsylvania.
Are you the out-doors type looking for something different to do?
....then spend two to four hours exploring, without guides, the largest natural cave in Pennsylvania  2.3 miles long!
Enter any Saturday or Sunday (except from Dec. 15 thru Jan. 15) during the hours of
9:00 A.M. till 2:00 P.M. You must be out by 5:00 P.M.
AvalanchePassage
SAVE THIS VALUABLE COUPON
DOLLAR OFF ON EXPLORING ADVENTURE \fPSSmb LAUREL CAVERNS
12" Drop
VALUE 
ONE DOLLAR 
TOWARD ONE 
EXPLORING 
TICKET
r
Sleepy K C kVALID THROUGH 
APRIL 15, 1984
Write for Free Tabloid
LAUREL CAVERNS
RD #1 Box 10 
Farmington, PA. 15437 
412-329-5968
THINGS TO KNOW
1. Bring your own good lightno sharing of lights.
2. Cave temperature 50 year round.
3. .Non-slippery shoes a must.
4. You should be at least 18 to do this, and 
you will be required to sign a release.
5. No food, beverages (except water) or 
smoking permitted.
6. We supply hard hats.
ONLY $5.00 FOR THIS THREE-HOUR ADVENTURE!
Reservations not required
Directions:
Take route 51 south to Uniontown, then travel U. S. 40 
oast for six miles to the top of Mount Summit. From there follow our signs
<

---------------------------------------------------

October 4, 1983The TartanPage 9
Where do they, come from?
Ways of generating ideas for writing discussed
By Jeff A. Suzuki
Well, I was going to do a column on 
drinking and the three freshmen  but 
Wendy Scott already did a fine column last 
week. So now Im writing at a computer  ~ - terminal tanging head for 
ideas to write this weeks 
column on.
Which gives me a great excuse 
to write a column on ideas. After all, we all 
have 'em; why not talk about them?
I try to be a writer, when I can get around 
to it. I have nearly a half dozen manuscripts 
lying around the apartment, just waiting to 
be mailed . . . But everything that I write 
must begin with an idea; none of this fill in 
the blank type of writing. Where do ideas 
come from?
If I were a psychologist or a neurologist, I 
would say something like, Well, the tempermental lobe of the brain is stimulated by 
electrical impulses which produce the aha!
influence, resulting in ideas. But Im not, 
so I cant say that.
Actually, Im not now concerned with 
where we get ideas, but how we get them. 
Methods vary greatly. One method: begin 
with a blank sheet of paper. Type your name, 
over and over again. Fill in other names: 
your doctor, his wife, son, daughters, their 
ages, the names of Greek methodists, Afri
can plants. Eventually, probably out of a 
desire to quit this silly exercise, some idea, 
some inkling of thought, something will 
creep in, surreptitiously, and BANG! Idea.
Well, to tell the truth, I dont use this 
method; it is wasteful of paper that I do not 
have. But it is one method. There are other 
methods, at least one of which I use consistendy (but which one I always use varies, 
see . . .)
Method Number 1: Its term paper ume, 
and youve got to think of an idea to write an 
extended essay on: eight to ten pages if
Bankruptcy law abused
continued from page 2
light of previous concessions by labor.
The large formerly regulated airlines, 
however, do have a valid point when they 
complain about the sudden shift from a reg
ulated environment to an unregulated 
environment. After operating for years 
under regulation, it was unreasonable to 
expect the older carriers to make a more or 
less instantaneous transition to a totally 
competative market. Unencumbered by a 
financial structure developed for a regulated 
industry, the newer carriers have an unfair 
advantage over the older ones and have been 
making the most of it. Some sort of tempor
ary government relief for the older carriers 
may be justified.
But a mad dash for Chapter 11 should not 
be that relief mechanism. It seems that East
ern and Continental, as well as JohnManville and other corporations, are using 
Chapter 11 to escape from past mistakes, 
troublesome labor negotiations, and legiti
mate public claims against them. That is 
clearly an abuse of the Federal Bankruptcy 
Act.
Stuart Shapiro is a gradute student in 
Appied History and is a columnist for The 
Tartan.
 SMITHEREENS 
DELIGHTS ME...
often unexpectedly sweet, often 
very funny and sometimes both 
at the same time... a most 
engaging movie.
-Vincent Canby, New York Times
A comic drama about the 
screwball life of a teenage girl. 
It will entertain you!
-Stewart Klein, WNEW-TV
leyrnwGwnSl
STARRING SUSAN BERMAN. BRAD RINN ANOgjjgHAWP BIAAd
MUSIC BY THE FEEUES DIRECTOR OF PHOTOGRAPHY CHIRINE El KHAOEM 
PRODUCED AND DIRECTED BY SUSAN SEOELMAN 
OFFICIAI U S ENTRY IN THE 1982 CANNES FILM FESTIVAL !
ROM NEW LINE CINEMA jV
KINGS COURTt
jlpy Urb0$ Ave./2-2334 j
youre lucky, fifteen to twenty if youre not, 
longer if its Friday the 13th. Can you write 
so many pages without knowing a subject to 
write on? Well, if you could write so much 
bull, you wouldnt be going here, would 
you?
The first step in writing a paper  any 
paper  is to begin with an idea of what to 
write on. The easiest way of doing this is, of 
course, asking the teacher what to write on. 
This does not, however, guarantee that 
he/she will give you an idea. You will prob
ably have to come up with your own.
The tried and true method of listing what 
you are interested in, listing related topics, 
and then choosing a topic from those lists is, 
of course, tried and true. It does work. I am 
interested in science fiction authors and tri
via. In my senior year in high school, we had 
to write an eight to ten page formal paper on 
any subject relating to England, Scotland, 
or Ireland. Thrills.
First, I listed areas that were interesting to 
me; among those areas was science fiction 
Then I listed a sub area: authors. Now, I 
thought, who is considered a British science 
fiction author? Arthur C. Clarke, thats who. 
So I wrote a term paper on Arthur C. Clarke. 
Well, I passed the course anyway.
Method Number 2: When your mind just 
wont start, or just plain stays in neutral, this 
method is particularly useful. Just pick up 
any dictionary (Websters Unabridged will 
do just fine, if you can really pick it up) and 
randomly pick out a word. Hmm... gobbledygook. 1 )The noise made made by a turkey, 
2)assorted incidentalia (slang). Ahh . . . its 
getting near Thanksgiving, lets write a
paper on how the turkeys changed the 
American way of life!
That example is, of course, pure gobble - 
dygook. Still, it is a fair example; the 
method works well for me. And it increases 
my vocabulary at the same time. (Lets see: 
syrt... Ill let you look that one up yourself.)
Method Number 3: the hear-say method. I 
find a lot of ideas for my short stories (never 
published) this way. Either in print, as in a 
newspaper, or over the radio, or hearing 
some keyword that prompts me to think 
about something that gives me inspiration 
and ideas.
For example: Reagans MX plan. What 
effects could this have on the United States? 
The world situation? What would the 
Soviets reation be? (Hmm ... I could write a 
column on that . . . tune in next week.)
Using those methods, I came up with the 
following ideas for this weeks column: 
Drinking and Responsibility (alas!), Nu
clear War, and Anti-weapon Weaponry. I 
proceeded to knock alternatives out: forget 
drinking etc., for Wendys column took 
precedence. Anti-weapon weaponry is 
something Id rather not get into now, leav
ing only nuclear war.
I proceeded to type Nuclear War, could 
not, absolutely could not get into said topic, 
and chucked the whole mess; perhaps to be 
resurrected in another form, on another 
date.
Well, this sparked the thought, why not 
vvrite on ideas? And the rest of the process, 
you can see yourself.
Jeff Suzuki is a freshman in Information 
Systems, and is a columnist for The Tartan,
HELP YOUR QPA TAKE OFF!
FreeWALK-IN TUTORING SERVICE
Beginning Sept. 19,1983 
Every Mon., Tues., Wed., Thurs.
7 p.m. -10 p.m.
WRITING
CALCULUS
CHEMISTRY
PHYSICS
H&SSMATH
Baker 229B 
Porter 225B 
Porter 226A 
Porter 226B 
Porter 226C
Sponsored by Counseling and Student Development Center 
Division of Student Affairs
Women's 
Health Services.
 FREE PREGNANCY TESTING
OaklandRm. 212, 3520 Forties Ave.
Downtown3rd floor, 107 6th St.
 ABORTION SERVICES
 BIRTH CONTROL & GYNE CARE
For Your WHS SURVIVAL KIT, Fill Out & Mail Coupon To: 
Women's Health Services, 107 6th St.. Pittsburgh, PA 15222 
Telephone: (412) 562-1900
WHS Survival Kit
Name
Street. 
City .StateZ\p
College (if student) __________________________
Mail to: WHS. 107 6th St.. Pittsburgh. PA 15222

---------------------------------------------------

*WED. OCT. t m:pupm Wherrett RmA lecture on the designing of automated manufacturing systems presented by IBM.
*1HJR.0CT.6 11am to 4pm SkiboA conference where students from Ballroom all academic disciplines are invited to come and talk informally with company representatives.
Featuring...
? Polaroid Corp.? Lawrence - Livermore? Bell Labs.? General Electric? Hewlett-Packard? El. DuPont? Cray Research? ALCOA? GTE Corp.? DEC? Texas Instruments
? Coming Glass Works? IBM? AMF Inc.? General Motors? Wang Labs Inc.? Procter & Gamble
Sponsored by the CMU Student Branches ofSWE and IEEE

---------------------------------------------------

ISsncsheSKnSsk
Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will present its season-opener, The Gin Game, through 
November 6. The play, a Pulitzer Prize winner by D. L. Cobum, stars Bingo OMalley and 
Nann Mogg.
TV winners 
surprise 
to audience
By MATT BOSCO
Tartan Staffurriter
If it werent for Cheers, Shelley Long, 
Doris Roberts, Joan Rivers, Eddie Murphy, 
and a surprise win for Judd Hirsch, the 
Emmy Awards, September 25, would have 
been a total waste.
Some of the other surprise winners 
included: Best Limited Series winner Nicho
las Nickelby. It won the Tony Award 
because it was eight hours long. And it won 
the Emmy because they had the nerve to 
adapt it for television.
Case in point: the incredible losses for 
M*A*S*H. With the end of the shows 
eleventh season came the end of the show, so
I, as many others, assumed that it would 
walk away with at least one award. Loretta 
Swit was the closest to winning, but in a big 
surprise Carol Kane took it away for utter
ing nothing more than jibberish on Taxi.
Out of the top shows though, Special 
Bulletin was the biggest surprise winner of 
all time. Not only did it receive lousy 
reviews, but I didnt think anybody saw it.
On the acting side almost every category 
produced some surprises. Although most 
felt it would probably go to Bette Davis or 
Dame Judith Anderson, Jean Simmons 
couped the supporting actress in a limited 
series award. Richard Kiley, who portrayed 
her husband in The Thom Birds took 
home the supporting actor award.
In fact, teams were the trend in the sup
porting races this year. Carol Kane was 
joined by her Taxi co-star Christopher 
Lloyd in the comedy division. And, in the 
most pleasant surprise of the entire evening, 
James Coco and Doris Roberts received their 
Emmys for their portrayals of Cora and 
Amie on St. Elsewhere.
Carol Burnett, Michael Jackson, Luci
ano Pavaroti, Leontyne Price, and 
Richard Pryor were the nominees for Out
standing Individual performance in a music 
or variety special. How can you pick a 
winner from such a different array of talent? 
I picked Carol Burnett; the academy picked 
Leontyne Price.
Looking over the winners now, only one 
acting winner was not a surprise to me, the 
win of Shelley Long f< r her fine portrayal of 
Diane Chambers on Cheers. I also chose
By LESLEY BRUNKER
Tartan Staffurriter
No-Doz, please.
Cheap Trick has been struggling erf late, 
and they have certainly neglected their cause 
in their latest album, Next Position, Please.
Losing sight of elements that 
brought them past success, they 
' have resorted to overprocessed 
semi-pop garbage that does 
their individual talents no justice and gives 
the listener no pleasure.
The high point in their career was a three 
album stretch in the late 1970s (78-79) with 
the albums Dream Police, Live at Boudakon, and Heax>en Tonight. They also 
scored high with the singles I Want You to 
Want Me (from In Color) and their 
biggest hit, Surrender (from Heaven 
Tonight).
After their success in the rock category, 
Cheap Trick mixed things up a bit with 
their experimental All Shook Up, an album 
that shows traces of the midwestem sound
either Ted Danson or Alan Alda for best 
actor, but was blown away when Judd 
Hirschs name was announced as winner. 
He went on at length about his show, 
Taxi, being cancelled and how hed like 
to take his award and shove it right up next 
to his other award.
In the drama series categories, after win
ning two years in a row, Daniel J. Travanti 
lost to Ed Flanders of St. Elsewhere. And 
just when everyone thought Cagney and 
Lacey were down for the final count, Tyne 
Daly comes along and wins the Emmy for 
best actress. There are negotiations going on 
right now to possibly bring back the series 
for a third time.
When the limited series or special awards 
were announced, no one was more surprised 
than I was. Tommy Lee Jones was deserv
ing, but Barbara Stanwyck! Miss Stanwyck 
had a smaller part than Jean Simmons, and 
Miss Simmons only won the supporting
so prevalent in Next Position Please. All 
Shook Up never really got off the ground, 
and the follow-up, One on One, a witty 
collection of Beatles parodies containing 
some of Rick Neilsens best writing, sim
ilarly failed.
And now comes Next Position, Please. 
Problem One is the production  or, more 
correcdy, overproduction  done by Todd 
Rundgren. While Rundgren did write the 
fullest-sounding song, Heavens Falling, 
he seems to overcompensate for a lack of 
natural noise in other pieces with excessive 
multitracking and electronic effects. This is 
especially evident in I Dont Love Here 
Anymore and 3-D.
Problem Two is that the music hides much 
of the talent of the musicians. Robin Zander, 
who has a rich and versatile voice, shows but 
a small fraction of its potential. Rick Neil
sens guitar is strangely laid back, and he 
takes few solos. Jon Brant, who replaced 
original bassist Tom Petersson before the 
continued on page 12
award. One point for Miss Stanwyck 
though, the final words of her sp)eech were 
Ann-Margaret, you were superb. Ms. 
Ann-Margaret broke into tears at her words 
and it was the most graceful moment ever to 
appear at an awards ceremony. Thank you, 
Miss Stanwyck, and especially thank you 
Mrs. Ann-Margaret Smith for your touch
ing phenominal portrayal of Lucille Frey in 
Who Will Love My Children?
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Staffurriter
Beyond the Limit is aptly tided; this movie 
goes way beyond the limit of a good movie. 
It stars Richard Gere and Michael Caine, the 
only two recognizable names in the cast.
The film is based on the novel 
The Honorary Consul by Grajflr ham Greene; unfortunately, the 
adaptation from page to screen 
leaves quite a bit to be desired.
The story takes place in Corrientes, a 
seedy Argentinian town in turmoil. Gere 
plays Eduardo Plarr, an English-bom doc
tor who is practicing medicine in South 
America while trying to find the wherea
bouts erf his father, who was taken as a polit
ical prisoner in nearby Paraguay two years 
earlier. Caine stars as the British Honorary 
Consul in town, Charlie Fortnum, an older 
man with alcoholic tendencies.
These two first meet when Plarr literally 
drags Fortnum out of a bar and takes him to 
a local brothel, where Plarr instandy falls in 
love with one of the girls, Clara (played by a 
young Mexican actress). To his great dis
dain, Plarr later learns that Clara has just 
been married to Fortnum.
The story focuses on the competition 
between these two friends for the same 
woman, one which Plarr has no trouble 
winning. From the moment Plarr and Clara 
first meet the movie turns into American 
Gigolo with a Spanish accent.
Meanwhile, Plarr becomes mixed up in a 
conspiracy to kidnap a visiting ambassador
"Hangman" 
premiere at 
CFA's Kresge
The music and drama departments at 
Camegie-Mellon University will present the 
American premiere of Leonardo Baladas 
comic opera, Hangman, Hangman! at 8 
p.m., October 8,10, and 12 in Kresge Theater 
in the College of Fine Arts.
Lyric tenor Francois Clemmons, best 
known for his appearances on public televi
sion's Mr. Rogers Neighborhood, will 
sing the role of Johnny, the cowboy who is 
about to be hanged in the work based on an 
American folk song.
A graduate of CMUs music department 
and a winner of the Metropolitan Operas 
regional auditions, Clemmons most 
recently appeared in Faust with Opera 
South in Jackson, Mississippi, and toured 
with the Harlem Opera Societys concert 
/cabaret, Georgia Sea Island Songs.
Other leads in the work are played by 
Donna Zapjola, Jennifer Song and Gerald 
Sell, all masters students in CMUs music 
department. CMU alumni, Michael Weiser, 
music director at St. Annes Church, Casde 
Shannon, and Kent Smith, will also per
form in the work. David Orcutt of the Pitts
burgh Chamber Op)era will play the role of 
sheriff. Lee Cass, CMU music professor, will 
narrate the opera.
Written for five singers, a narrator and 
eight instruments, the opera received its 
world premiere performance at the Barcel
ona International Music Festival. The 
American production will be conducted by 
Werner Torkanowsky, CMU director of 
orchestral studies. Akram Midani, dean of 
the College of Fine Arts, is directing.
The opera inaugurates the music depart
ments chamber orchestra series. The even
ing will also include a performance of 
Stravinskys The Fox.
For further information, contact the 
CMU box office at 578-2407.
with hopes that his father will be released 
from prison as a ransom for the ambassador. 
These two stories of love and politics are the 
basis erf the plot.
The movie has great potential as a politi
cal thriller, but never comes close to this 
potential. Instead erf focusing on the turmoil 
in South America, the constant fear the peo
ple live in, pjolice brutality, and other prob
lems, the storyline is twisted around 
bechoom scenes with Plarr and Clara. There 
are scenes which try to depict some of these 
problems, but these scenes are merely 
thrown in at random and never followed up. 
This results in a disjointed story which 
bounces back and forth between a political 
story and a cheap love story , the one com
promising the other.
One bright spot in the film is Michael 
Caine, who does a tremendous job of por
traying Charlie Fortnum, the older man in 
love with a younger woman, trying to please 
her. While most erf the people in this film are 
acting with all the plausibility erf a television 
seap opera actor, Caine as Fortnum adds 
comic relief to the film with his sparkling 
wit and unending easygoing attitude.
This movie could have been a gexxi one, 
but it eneis up being just another Richard 
Gere movie, filled with lust and meaning
less lines which seem to have no bearing 
whatsoever on the outcome of the story. 
Because erf that any political statements it 
tries to make lose their credibility.
Next Position leaves 
Cheap Trick in trouble
",Beyond the Limit" 
exceeds itself in reality

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 4, 1983
Illustrators mark Forbes Gallery's new season
By KEITH RECKER
Special for the Tartan
The Forbes Gallery begins its year of stu
dent exhibitions with the work of Linda 
Shawo, Anna Ciarallo and Laura Frissora. 
Each student is a senior illustration major 
and has a strong thread running 
through the body of her work.
Linda Shawo is fascinated 
with the human form. "I dont 
feel dose to the work unless I include some 
human element  whether its a body, or 
just the feeling that a setting is ready and 
waiting for someone. Another factor which 
Shawo feels is central to her work is her use 
erf color.
Seven of the pieces Shawo is showing deal 
with one theme: the exploitation of women. 
All of these pieces oriented from an image
taken from a magazine, either Playboy or 
Penthouse.
Anna Ciarallo deals with faces. She sim
plifies them, distorts them, obscures them. A 
facet of each personality is stressed through 
each different handling. In her portrait of 
JFK, she uses black and white and a diago
nal orientation to instill a contemplative, 
calm spirit. In "Portrait of My Brother Cia
rallo uses a thick mist of color with painterly 
texture. The face is distanced from us  
almost disembodied to the point that it 
becomes an object. The sinister features of 
"The Three Fates of Macbeth are rendered 
in wood-cut style.
Another of Ciarallos interests is creating 
a warm, comfortable atmosphere through 
cartoonish images.
Laura Frissora works primarily in dry
medium, and usually in pencil. She is 
highly conscious of technique and has deve
loped an impressive rendering ability. Fris
sora tries to create a narrative element in 
each of her pieces. "What could happen ... 
thats important. There is always some kind 
of possibility in the pieces. In Calm Before 
the Storm you have this boat going along 
at top speed and dark clouds looming in the
background. Its whats coming that makes 
the piece more than just a picture.
The Shawo, Ciarallo, and Frissora exhibtion begins tonight with the opening recep
tion from 7 p.m. to 9 p.m. It will be on 
display until October 9. Forbes Gallery 
hours are Wednesday through Friday 11 
a.m. to 6 p.m., and Saturday and Sunday 
from noon to 5 p.m.
Cheap Trick's "position 
filled with problems
Are DRUGS affecting YOUR LIFE?
Join us for a special Shabbat dinner and lecture on 
"Substance Abuse" with Dr. Shirley Hill from 
Western Psychiatric Institute.
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 7
6:30 dinner, 8:00 speaker.
315 S. Bellefield 
COST $3.00 
RSVP by October 5, 621-8875
Sponsored by the B'nai B'rith Hillel - Jewish University Center, a 
beneficiary of the United Jewish Federation.
continued from page 11
recording of One on One (perhaps Petersson 
was wise to get out before things went com
pletely down hill), has yet to show any out
standing bass work. And genteel, chain
smoking Bun E. Carlos actually detracts from 
the song 3-D with his lack of dynamics in 
the percussion.
The Final Problem is two part: first, 
uninspired instrumentals; second, soppy 
lyrics. Y.O.Y.O.Y. offends on both counts
- to a country rockish beat, Why oh why oh 
why cant 1/ Be in low forever? Heart rend
ing stuff. Even the best track, Next Posi
tion, Please, an amusing societal comment 
on the up-and-coming, is trapped by laugh 
lines such as I want to be the biggest gun in 
the world/ I want to see the tits on every 
girl and You never get bored with mirrors 
on the ceiling.
Is this the best Cheap Trick has to offer? 
Doubtful. But after eight studio albums and 
one live album, youd think theyd have 
their act together. No one doubts the talents 
there  its been shown. Most regrettably, 
because the One on One concerts sold so 
poorly, many dates were cancelled, meaning 
a successful Next Position, Please tour will
be difficult if not impossible. Oh well. For 
their sake, lets hope they can pull some
thing together before even the die-hard fans 
give up on them.
Next album, please.
Notes: Another good word for Queensryche. Their album has made significant 
gains on Billboards chart, jumping from 
number 134 to 107 in a week. Some very 
promising heavy metal ... In other chart 
news, Quiet Riot has its first top ten album 
with Mental Health, now at number seven. 
Dios Holy Diver is also looking good at 
number 73 ... Yes that is Dio as in Ronnie 
James Dio of Rainbow and Black Sabbath.. 
. New albums: Pat Benatar, Live from Earth
 contains both live and new studio mate
rial; Quiet Riot, Slick Black Cadillac; Rain
bow, Bent out of Shape (typical Rainbow 
album title); Aldo Nova, Subject... Speak
ing of Rainbow and Aldo Nova, they will be 
appearing together at the Stanley Theater 
on 31 October. Nova began his musical 
career as a bassist in a German band. His 
dynamic personality comes through in both 
his music and his stage show  in fact, he 
often outperforms the headliner.
Discover New Horizons at CLAIROL
Enter CLAIROL's world of innovative career experiences as part of our engineering 
management staff. Challenging opportunities await you in our Operations 
Management Program.
Project Engineering  Industrial Engineering
Production Supervision  Production Planning
Our representatives will be on campus...Wednesday, November 2
-and-Thursday, November 3
at the Placement Office
One Blachley Road, P.O. Box 10213, Stamford, Connecticut 06902
Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/H/V

---------------------------------------------------

pholo by Christopher D. Lewis
Individual PAC Leaders
RushingATYDAVTDYD/G
1. Jim Donnelly, Case Reserve1043883.7297.0
2. Bob Murray, Allegheny492434.9281.0
3. Brad Cantwell, JC772623.4365.5
4. Jim Morrison, CMU592554.3163.8
5. Glen Simon, Bethany481793.7059.6
PassingATCITDYD/G
1. Jason Gordca, Hiram803980198.5
2. Fred DeSanto, Case Reserve382303166.0
3. Dave McCaughey, Bethany382020154.5
4. Jim Miale, Thiel502610146.5
5. Dave Zito, CMU14903119.0
For more statistics, see page 18.
Tartans roll up numbers at Thiel
y CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
1Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
It was a sad day for the Tartan defense. 
With three minutes and two seconds 
remaining in the first quarter, Thiels Doug 
Mueller kicked a 25 yard field goal. The 
three points broke the streak of two hours, 21 
minutes and 31 seconds of shutout football 
the Tartans had played over four games, 
including two shutouts. The defense would 
give up eight points over the rest of the game. 
That left it up to the offense.
The offense came through. Led by Skoalplayer-of-the-week Jim Morrison and quar
terback Dave Zito, the Tartans pummelled 
the Tomcats 50-11, in an offensive display 
rarely seen in Division III. The statistics 
were simply overwhelming:
 on 89 offensive plays, the Tartans aver
aged 6.6 yards per play. On 76 rushing plays, 
the Tartans gained 375 net yards, averaging 
4.9 yards per carry.
 Morrison gained 121 yards on 24 car
ries (50 yards per carry).
 Zito ran for 43 yards on three carries for 
'a 14-yard average.
 Zito also passed for 184 yards on five 
completions out of seven attempts (71%) and 
three touchdowns in his most impressive 
aerial display yet this season.
 Receiver Dave Richards caught four 
passes for 133 yards, including a beautiful 
run after a reception that went for 69 yards 
and a touchdown.
 Wingback Joe Vasalani also caught a 
pass for 67 yards and a touchdown, as well as 
rushing for 69 yards on 15 carries.
The defense was again somewhat gener
ous against the pass. Thiel quarterback Jim 
Miale completed sixteen out of thirty passes
Player-of-the-week Jim Morrison runs to fourth place in PAC rushing.
Harriers streak to 44
for 187 yards. But the red rush was again 
impenetrable against the run. The Tomcats 
ran for just 32 yards, the long run being a 
seven yard gain by Duffy Madden.
The Tartan punter, Mike OShip, aver
aged 39 yards. The impressive fact was that 
he punted just once.
The team suffered a slight letdown early 
in the game. Joe Nardone said during the 
first half, were not playing as well as last 
week. Although leading 21-3 at the half, 
the Tartans played sloppily. They fumbled 
twice inside their own 20 yard line and once 
on the Tomcat one, as Zito attempted to 
plunge across the goal line. The team was 
penalized eight times for ninety-six yards, 
including a pass interference on the last play 
of the first half, setting up a field goal 
attempt for Thiel. The kick was missed.
The Tartans have now won four games 
without a loss. The game statistics only add 
to incredible season stats:
 They have outscored their opponents 
134-22 overall, and 96-11 in the Presidents 
Athletic Conference.
 The Tartans have a plus-six turnover 
ratio, causing 15 turnovers and giving up 
the ball nine times.
 The backs have rushed for 1,119 yards 
in four games, for an average of 279 yards 
per game.
 The defense has given up 278 yards 
rushing, in total, for an average of 69.5 yards 
per game.
 The Tartans average 69.8 yards rushing 
per quarter.
 The offense has 56 rushing first downs. 
The defense has given up 15.
 Morrison alone has 256 yards.
Joe v asalani bowls over Thiel defenders on his way to 136 overall yards.
So how good are the Tartans? The let
down that was predicted after the Hiram 
game did not occur. The team plays unde
feated Allegheny College next week and 
must endure a two-and-a-half hour bus ride. 
However, Allegheny narrowly defeated 
Thiel by a slim 15-13 margin.
There are now five games left in the sea
son. In addition to Allegheny, Case Western 
(4-0) is a team to watch. CMU has so far 
been utterly dominant. The offense grinds
given up only 70 yards rushing the past two 
weeks combined. The balanced rushing led 
to nine rushers in double figures and three 
with 60 yards or more (Mike Garverick had 
60 yards to join Morrison and Vasalani.) 
The punter, OShip, had 24 yards rushing.
Coach Chuck Klausing will do his best to 
guard against complacency, which seems to 
be the only thing that will stop this team. 
Allegheny may test how good the 1983 Tar
tans are.
j By DAVE LAFYATIS
j Tartan Staffivriter
Camegie-Mellons cross-country oppo
nents are becoming extremely familiar with 
he term outclassed. CMU destroyed four 
nore PAC squads last Saturday by shutting 
^ut Geneva, Hiram and John Carrol and 
Heating Case Western Reserve by an 18-45 
ount. These latest victories ran the harriersI
ienomenal streak to 44 consecutive wins, 
d brought this years record to 7-0. 
rhe meet, which was the Tartans first 
me race of the season, took place in 
hen ley Park under cloudy afternoon skies. 
1-American John Wessels jumped to the 
>nt immediately and held his position 
oughout the entire way, finishing the 
Uy 5 mile course in an impressive 25:22. 
tf>m Bell followed closely to nab the 
nd spot in 25:39. The only foreign 
finer to break into the sea of red and white 
the front of the pack was third place Scott 
Dilips of Case Western. The rest of the top 
>ht were all from CMU with John McGom in 4th, Chris Shaffer in 5th, Bob Dusch 
6th, Frank Matousek in 7th and Mark
Sulecki in 8th. Placing seven out of the top 
eight runners was made all the more impres
sive because of the fact that two of the Tar
tans top runners, Mike Short and Kevin 
Brewer, didnt compete. Short was required 
to take his Med-School Board exams, while 
Brewer was out with a foot injury.
After the meets completion, Coach Gary 
Meckley reflected on the races strategy. We 
really only ran half of the race hard. We 
went out quick for the first mile, then stabil
ized for a while, and then did a half-mile 
burst at the three mile mark. After that we 
just brought it on in. Wessels and McGo
wan both ran real good times. Also, Chris 
Shaffer did a nice job, coming back from his 
bout with heat exhaustion. Our times are 
slowly improving, and are pretty good for 
this point in the season.
The Tartan harriers will attempt to 
extend the streak to 48 in a row this Saturday 
when they take on Grove City, Genet, 
Duquesne and Robert Morris. The meet, 
which will be the final chance to see CMU at 
home, begins at 12:15 in Schenley Park.
photo by Christopher D. Lrwis 
Victor Boland plunges through the line to a CMU touchdown.

---------------------------------------------------

EVANS & SUTHERLAND
GENERAL INFORMATION
DISPLAY ADS
Display ads are $4.50 per column inch, minimum order is two 
column inches. Special rates are available. There is a late 
submission charge.
Deadline: Tuesday before publication at 5:00 PM
CLASSIFIED ADS
Classifieds are $2.00 for 1-20 words, $4.00 for 21-50 words, 
$8.00 for more than 50 words.
Dealine: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
ANNOUNCEMENTS
Announcements and Events are free for non-profit organizations.
We reserve the right to delete or edit any announcement or event.
Deadline: Wednesday before publication at 5:00 PM
For further information, contact Business Manager Kathy Wasch. 
Business hours: Monday and Wednesday, 4:00 to 6:00 PM 
Address: Box 17, Schenley Park, Pgh., PA 15213 or Skibo 50 
Phones: 578-2111/2112 
24~Hour answering machine: 578-2113
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
The Computer-Image 
Generation
Evans & Sutherland of Salt Lake 
City, Utah:
Shaping the future with the latest in 
dynamic computer-generated 
interactive graphics...
Providing an invaluable techno
logical background to keep your 
career moving...
Surrounded by spectacular 
mountains, located within thirty 
minutes of the worlds finest skiing, 
only minutes away from professional 
sports and cultural activities.
Join a new generation of challenges 
in electrical design, software design, 
scientific programming, systems 
programming, high speed analog
design, and high speed analog 
processing.
Youll enjoy a competitive salary, 
excellent benefits and complete 
insurance programs.
If you are seeking the most 
advantageous work situation in which 
to continue to develop your skills and 
your experience, please sign up at the 
Placement Center to interview with us 
on October 10.
If this interview date is not 
convenient, please send a resume to: 
College Recruiting Program 
580 Arapeen Drive 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84108
EVANS & SUTHERLAND
Where more than graphics are three-dimensional.
Equal Opportunity Employer
and Placement
Want to Sharpen Your 
Interviewing Skills?
1. How do you prepare for the campus interview?
I
2. What happens in the campus interview . . . 
What information do employers look for . . . 
How is it obtained . . . How is it used?
3. What happens after the campus interviewT. . . 
How to follow up ... How to handle a plant or 
office visit?
These and other questions mill be answered in a 
seminar
 to be held on Tuesday,
 October 4, 1983 at 7:30 p.m.
 in the Ballroom in Skibo
Panelists include:
Jane Cordisco, Equibank 
Irving C. Pfeiffer, IBM Corporation 
Kathy Easterling, The Goodyear Tire 
8c Rubber Company
Time will be available for discussion and questions.
All university students are 
urged to attend.
See Our Fall Collections!!
Clogs, Moccassins, Casuals, Boots, 
Accessories and China Shoes
The Best Selection of Clogs 
For Women and Men
124 Oakland Avenue Open Daily 10:00 A.M. - 6:00 P.M.
621-2599 Saturdays: 11:00 A M - 6:00 P.M.
Stop In And Browse!"

---------------------------------------------------

October 4, 1983The TartanPage 15%
By SEAN QUINN
]Jartan Staffuniter
Pain. That would appropriately describe 
the past week for the CMU field hockey
team.
The Tartans had to complete the last 
three games of a grueling week in which 
they played five games in eight days. But 
more importandy, the Tartans lost their 
most dominant offensive player, Maria 
Kozo, to a knee injury. Kozo damaged her
left knee so severely in Tuesdays game 
against Bethany, that by Fridays game 
against Chatham she had already under
gone surgery. Kozo is lost for the season.
This weeks first game was a rainout 
makeup against Bethany, a team that the 
Tartans beat two weeks earlier. A dred Tar
tan team struggled to a 1-0 victory. The 
CMU goal was scored by the Tartans new 
offensive weapon, Laura Ciarallo. The only 
thing worse than the exhaustion was the
Good news and bad news
By MARIA RIVAS
Tartan Staffurriter
Theres good news and bad news.
The good news is that last Tuesdays first 
home game against Indiana University of 
Pennsylvania had a large turnout of CMU 
supporters. Despite spectator turnout  this 
is the bad news  CMU volleylball was 
soundly defeated. So continues the trend of 
losses the volleyball team has been suffering 
of late.
One important factor must be considered.
14UP is in the first division while CMU is in 
the third. Despite this handicap and team 
inconsistencies, the Tartans did give IUP a 
run for the money. Throughout the game, 
the crowd made comments like I cant 
believe they [CMU] are doing so well.
Some of the problems the Tartans faced 
included having trouble clearing the net on
M-not ate
'By SEAN QUINN
Tartan Staffurriter
Just when you thought it was too late to 
sign up for intramurals  here comes a new 
season. Due this Thursday for soccer, vol
leyball, bowling, racquetball, and team table 
tennis rosters. Commissioners are needed for 
all sports in addition to water polo and chess. 
Other sports that will get underway soon are 
golf, this Sunday at Schenley Park starting at 
9:00 a.m., and cross-country, which begins at 
4:30 p.m. on Wednesday, October 12, on 
Flagstaff Hill.
I.M. Director, Earl Birdy, will be conduct
ing a Save-A-Life swim on Thursday, 
October 13 from 9:30 am to 11:00 am. The 
swim is sponsored by the American Cancer 
Society. All swimmers must pick up a spon
sor sheet and get pledges for each pool 
length completed.
10% Discount to 
Students with Ad
 Dancewear
 Exercisewear
 Footwear
costumes
jL* Q. tZatpk
THEATRICAL and 
DANCE SUPPLIES
204 FIFTH AVENUE 
at Market St.
Downtown Pittsburgh
serves and ball setting on returning oppos
ing serves. Assistant Coach Heinrich Pan 
stated we played well ... we have to fight 
more for the ball ... we can win.
The Tartans have opportunities to realize 
Pans expectations this Thursday against 
both Penn State University Fayette and 
McKeesport.
injury to Kozo.
On Thursday, the Tartans faced a tough 
Slippery Rock J.V. team. Slippery Rock is a 
Division II team, so they are much better 
than even the top Division III opponent that 
CMU will face. Coach Joan Maser likes to 
face better teams because the team plays up 
to Slippery Rocks skill level. Masers Tar
tans did just that. Ciarallo scored for a CMU 
1-0 lead. The Rock came back to tie the 
game 1-1 at the half. The second half 
showed the loss of Kozo. The offense never  
really clicked, and Slippery Rock went 
home with a 2-1 victory. Maser was still 
pleased with her teams play. They played 
much better today than on Tuesday. But, I 
expect a letdown tomorrow against Cha
tham. Maser still expected to win, but she 
planned on using lots of substitutes and on 
putting defensive star Mary Ann Sacco on 
the front-line.
Fridays game against Chatham was
played in a constant rain. Maser emphasized 
that there was slipping for both teams, so 
that the rain was equally annoying for both 
teams. The Tartans scored a goal in each 
half for a 2-0 win. Sacco scored first, and 
Ciarallo scored her third goal of the week in 
the second half. Maser commented, They 
never seem to play well against Chatham 
i a team that consistandy loses to other 
teams by scores like 5-0 or worse.
But, Maser explained, we used a totally 
new front line. With a lot of nagging injur
ies to the first string, a lot more substitutes 
got to play.
If the Tartans can come together for the 3 
games this week, then they can really enjoy 
the five day break scheduled for next wee
kend. They visit Bethany today and play at 
home Friday and Saturday against 
Washington and Jefferson, and Indiana 
University of PA.
E-Systems continues
the tradition of 
the worlds great problem solvers.
Unquestionably, Leonardo 
da Vinci possessed one of the 
worlds great minds. Not only re
nowned as a painter and sculp
tor, da Vinci also applied his 
exceptional talents to the me
chanics of flight, to cartography 
for planning military campaigns, 
and even astronomy.
Today, scientists and engi
neers at E-Systems continue the 
tradition by expanding the practi
cal application of advanced tech
nology. E-Systems uses the 
principles of flight mechanics as 
the basis for major modifications 
to aircraft, expands basic car
tography to encompass highly
Leonardo da Vinci 
1452-1519
sophisticated guidance and com
mand and control systems, and 
has designed and built a sys
tem that greatly expands mans 
ability to study the universe.
Thats only a small seg
ment of the tough problems 
E-Systems engineers solve in 
the area of antennas, communi
cations, data acquisition, pro
cessing, storage and retrieval 
systems and other systems ap
plications for intelligence and re
connaissance  systems which 
are often the first of a kind in 
the world.
For a reprint of the da Vinci 
illustration and information on ca
reer opportunities with E-Systems 
in Texas, Florida, Indiana, Utah, 
and Virginia, write: Dr. Lloyd K. 
Lauderdale, Vice President 
Research and Engineering, 
E-Systems, Inc., Corporate 
Headquarters, R O. Box 226030, 
Dallas, Texas 75266.
E-SYSTEMS
The problem solvers.
An equal opportunity employer M F H V
Our Greenville Division will be on campus interviewing October 7,1983
Tartans successfully endure painful week
Phone: 412-391-1422

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 4, 1983
Tennis struggles to continue winning ways
By PAULINE KRAMER
Tartan Features Editor
The tennis team braced itself for the worst 
last week and it received it in progressively 
worsening doses from both W8cJ and 
Bethany.
On Wednesday, the Washington and Jef
ferson Presidents put up a regal front but the 
Tartans maintained their reign over the 
courts. Accurately warned by their coach 
that W&J would offer stiff competition, 
CMU hung in and forced three of their 
opponents to de-breakers, eventually eeking 
out the win, 3-2.
Bridget Kyne disposed of the first singles 
player with ease, 6-3, 6-2. Despite the lop
sided score of 6-7, 0-6, second singles Darla 
Messick played well, unable to get her foot 
in the door of the second set after an emo
tionally draining first set loss. Laura Miller,
Custom Designed Hairstylesthat only look expensive Im
Management Information Systems Department 
of
MORGAN STANLEY & CO.
FRIDAYDA,OCT
invites all seniors, of all majors, especially those pursuing honors 
degrees, to a presentation on our Management Training Program
Wednesday, October 5,1983 
Skibo Hall Room 11 
7:30-9:30 P.M.
Soccer awesome in upset
By SCOTT BOZIC
Tartan Staffxvriter
Awesome.
Thats the best way to describe the way the 
Tartan soccer team played this past week in 
impressive victories over Slippery Rock 
State and Grove City.
On Tuesday, the Tartans blanked 
Slippery Rock 3-0 in what has to be consi
dered an upset since Slippery Rock is a Divison II rated soccer team. However, Coach 
Nick Gaudioso explains, I dont consider it 
an upset. We were a better team than they 
were on Tuesday. That had to be our best 
game of the season so far.
Captain Neal Frink started the scoring 
with a free-kick goal about one-third of the 
way into the first half. Forwards Ted And
erer and Doug Anderson each scored in the 
second half for the Tartans also.
When we scored that first goal relatively
early in the game, that sort of took the wind 
out of their sails, explained Anderson.
Those were three great goals, added 
Gaudioso. Usually you dont see three 
goals like that in one game.
On Friday, CMU destroyed Grove City 
5-1 in the rain. Anderer and Anderson each 
scored before five minutes had ticked off die 
game clock. John McNamara added 
another first half goal to make it 3-0 at 
intermission.
McNamara and Anderer each scored 
again early in the second half to make it 5-0. 
A defensive miscue late in the game pre
vented goalie Sam Montague from record
ing his third consecutive shutout.
Weve been waiting for ourselves to get it 
together, and it finally happened, 
remarked Anderer, Were confident now7: 
we know what we can do.
We are actively recruiting Fall Graduates. Spring Graduates are also urged to attend. 
Our program offers the following benefits:
 Interaction unth innovative and exceptionally talented securities industry professionals.
 A chance to begin a career in Data Processing at one of Wall Streets leading investment 
banking firms.
 Guaranteed and rapid career progression in a challenging, fast paced environment.
 An outstanding compensation program for those who meet the challenge.
Contact the Career Services Office for additional information.
BDAEORO 7O,RSCP huh LNU,S MYYDAOURtOP LhYSDPCA
At Bethany on Friday, an unexpected 
rainstorm interrupted an already dismal 
match after about an hour, not until CIViU 
had dropped the first set from all four of the 
five matches. (The availability of only four 
courts prevented the beginning of the 
second doubles match.) The rain date for the 
conclusion is not yet determined.
In his newest bound-to-be bestseller, everybody's favorite fat feline suc
cumbs to a nap attack, makes new friends and further alienates old enemies. 
It's his funniest foray yet in conspicuous consumption, catty combacks and 
sound sleep. Roll on, GARFIELD, roll on! >
$4.95emu bockstore*
IN BAKER HALL
(ANY LENGTH) $25.00
$1240
(WASH-CUT -1LOW -STYLE)
COLOR
ngi T, Wei. 1*7 7
Thn.Pri.IM 7
NO APPOINTMENTS O***** 
UNISEX HAIR SALON
at third singles the Tartans best human 
backboard, frustrated her W&J opponent to 
the point of three sets, but lost 3-6 in the 
deciding set.
Beth Dougherty and Laurie Arendas are 
setding in at first doubles, able to pull out a 
6-7, 6-0, 6-4, even on a slightly off day. 
Second doubles team Leslie Inglese and 
Pauline Kramer also won dramatically, 6-0, 
3-6, 7-6, though not playing up to their 
potential.
Second doubles Darla Messick helps tennis maintain reign.photo by Erik Horn
Our professional stylists know that to custom cut your hair the way you want, they 
must listen to what you want That's why at Great Expectations you'll leave 
with the style you had in mind at a price you can afford 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
PRECISION NO PERMS FOR
HAIRCUT APPOINTMENT ALL STYLES

---------------------------------------------------

October 4, 1983The TartanPage 17
IM Director finds time to do everything
By ROSEMARY HINTEREGGER
Tartan Staffwriter
, please come in! I can help! thats 
what the sign on Earl J. Birdys door says. 
Warner Hall could leam a lesson from 
Birdy, CMU intramural director.
Birdy has done much for many through
out his life, but first he had to grow up. Bom 
in 1926 in Pittsburgh, Birdy was the only 
boy of four children. He was active as a kid 
playing sandlot games of football, basketball, baseball and volleyball. In those days, 
there were boys volleyball teams and Birdy 
belonged to Peabodys 1944 State Cham
pionship squad. We were great remi
nisced Birdy.
Having graduated from high school in 
1945, Birdy then served two years in the 
Marine Corps.
Moving on to Slippery Rock College the 
next fall, Birdy didnt play sports because he 
had an operation on his knees due to foot
ball. However, Birdy enjoyed school any
way. I loved it! he said. It was a nice, nice 
school. Birdy kept in contact with Slippery 
, Rock through the Alumni Association of 
which he was president at one time.
Graduating in 1951 with a BS in health 
and physical education, Birdy came to 
Carnegie Tech and taught gym and swim
ming classes, and he assisted with the 
intramural program. He received his mas
ters degree in education from the University 
of Pittsburgh in 1956 and then became the 
intramural director at Carnegie. Birdy con
tinued teaching physical education and 
swimming until 1966 when he became di** rector of mens and womens intramurals. 
Birdy also coached and officiated junior 
and senior high school athletics in the early 
1950s, moving onto small local colleges 
until 1960.
At that point, Birdy started officiating for 
Division I colleges through the Eastern 
Association of Intercollegiate Football Offi
cials and was a past president of this organi
zations Pittsburgh chapter.
Birdy moved on to major independent 
^colleges as an official in 1975. Birdy clari
fied, This is big time. Colleges in this cate
gory include: West Virginia, Rutgers, 
Army, Navy, Boston College^ Syracuse, 
Temple, Penn State,... and of course Pitt!
Football is a dangerous sport for the offi
cials as well. Birdy recalled one incident viv
idly. I was officiating the Harvard-Yale 
game in 1972 and some players smashed 
into me. My leg was broken in two places, 
and the bones in my forearm were pushed 
past my elbow. Later, Birdy found out that
* if he had been ten years older or twenty 
pounds heavier, his system might have not 
survived the shock.
Yet Birdy liked officiating too much to 
quit. He rehabilitated himself through a 
steady, often painful training program to 
earn the "Outstanding Tri-State Football 
Official of 1972.
Birdys first game back was in 1973 when 
Temple played Xavier, and he admitted he 
was more than a little apprehensive. "I had 
no idea what I was going to do. As soon as 
the ball came my way, my instincts took 
over and I reacted automatically.
Birdy has also officiated in three bowl
pc
Computer SnppKft
* Computer paper  $11 for 1000sheets 
- $25 for 3300 sheets (box)
> 5*4 inch ifetime floppies - SSDD 
~ DSDD - $3.95 each or $35 for 10 
' Printers from $219 
1 Lotus 1,2, 3 $349
1 Other soft\*re hardware, supples auaiabie
Call Mike 2424069 
Fieker Aorirtw
games since 1974. I did the Orange Bowl in
1974, it was Penn State versus LSU. In 1979 
LSU played Wake Forest in the Tangerine 
Bowl and I was at the Hall of Fame Bowl in 
1981 when Kansas took on Mississippi 
State.
Birdy has been the pool director of the St. 
Clair Country Club in South Hills since 
1956. Its a really nice place! I hire fourteen 
people each year. During the same time 
span, Birdy has been the executive secretary 
of the Western Pennsylvania Country Club 
Swimming Association.
Birdy is chairman of the PittsburghAllegheny County chapter of the Water 
Safety Committee through the American 
Red Cross. He also is an instructor-trainer in 
water safety, and hes an instructor in CPR 
and first aid. Among the other organizations 
Birdy belongs to are the Phi Epsilon Kappa 
physical education fraternity, and he is 
Chairman of the board of trustees for the 
Central Christian Church in Oakland.
For twenty-four years until 1979, Birdy 
was the director of athletics at St. Edmunds 
Academy. He also coached soccer, basketball 
and baseball. It wasnt easy, said Birdy, 
but I loved it!
Birdy lives in West Mifflin, about twentyfive minutes from here, with his wife Shirley 
and their children. He met Shirley at 
Slippery Rock on the football field during 
the halftime show and was married in 1953. 
They have four children: Pamela, Dean 
Allen, David and Cheryl. Shirley iscurrendy 
teaching at Steel Valley High School.
Birdy has owned Munhall Golf Driving 
Range which borders on the back of his 
home. He gives lessons to children erf all 
ages. I enjoy working with kids. Theyre 
real nice and they are easy to teach.
How Birdy can manage a driving range, 
and officiate and direct a college intramu
ral program is a mystery to many students. 
Holding just one of these positions is very 
time-consuming, let alone three. As 
intramural director at CMU, Im responsi
ble for the organization and administration 
of the intramural program.
CMUs intramural program is quite 
extensive for the size erf the school. Last year, 
there were thirty-four sports existing, and 
3,060 different students played. One of the
most pleasing aspects of intramurals to 
Birdy is the participation of women in the 
program. Each year the girls are more and 
more involved. I think its great!
Birdy likes his job at CMU. I love it here 
because I get to know the students more 
informally. I really enjoy working with 
them. I also think that for the size of our 
student body, CMU has the best intramural 
program anywhere in the country!
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS
MECHANICAL ENGINEERS 
CHEMICAL ENGINEERS 
PHYSICISTS
Judge the patentability of scientific and engineering discoveries made by R & D engineers, inventors and scientists world-wide as aPATENT EXAMINER
in Washington, D.C.
The Patent and Trademark Office has unique career opportunities offering
 Challenge and responsibility  Career growth  Outstanding career Federal Government service benefits
For more information about your career 
as a Patent Examiner contact:
Manager, College Relations 
Office of Personnel 
Patent and Trademark Office 
Washington, D.C. 20231
Call toll-free 800-368-3064 
(703) 557-3631 (Collect in VA)
An Equal Opportunity Employer m/f
U.S. Citizenship Required

---------------------------------------------------

Touch Football
Majors
Lendl
GSIA
Harrys Tavern 
PKT
Synchronicitv
Zoo
ZBT
(Cont.J
Connors
The Inz
The Weanies
Boys from Schlag
PLP
Doherty
TX-A
Math
Page 18The TartanOctober 4, 1983
PAC Statistics
PAC Standings
OVERALLWL
CMU40
Case Reserve40
Allegheny30
Wash. & Jeff.13
John Carroll13
Bethany12
Hiram03
Thiel04
PACwL
CMU20
Case Reserve20
Allegheny20
Wash. & Jeff.11
John Carroll11
Bethany02
Hiram02
Thiel02
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 621-1988
There is onlyr one 
telecommunication
And this new.
AT&T COMMUNICATIONS
Just bom. Fully grown. With assets of 
$15-20 billion.. .66 million resident and 
business customers.. .and 122,000 
employees, and an AT&T heritage of 107 
years of telecommunications experience.
But offering new and expanded information 
services. Were working on a broader scale 
than ever before, interweaving advanced 
computer technology to compete success
fully in all aspects of telecommunications: 
audio, video, digital data, and analog 
graphics.
Want to be part of this technically based, 
market driven organization? Well be 
needing enthusiastic, results-oriented 
technical and business majors to set the pace 
in technical and managerial areas, sales and 
marketing.
Check your College Placement Office for 
more information and interview dates.
We are an equal opportunity employer
AT&T
Communications
Our apologies to coach Don Poluszek fa 
the wrong photos last week. Actually! 
Poluszek was in the bottom left of both I 
Anyway, here is the real coach Poluszek. I
937 Bestsellers
Weve put together a catalog of bestselling Government publications.Send for your free copy.
New Catalog n
P.O. Box 37000, Washington, D.C. 20013
PFPA
13422
10543
7343
3290
4296
3435
2286
41107
PFPA
9611
5824
3123
2928
2137
1728
060
2465
TEAM OFFENSE
1. CMU
2. Case Reserve
3. Hiram
TEAM DEFENSEYD/G
387.5 1. Bethany 
347.3 2. Case Reserve 
320.0 3. CMU
Individual Leaders
Receiving
1. Andy Houpt, Thiel
2. Greg Corsica, Hiram
3. Mark Warburton, Hiram
4. Tom Catanzarite, JC
5. Bob Gervic} JC

---------------------------------------------------

October 4, 1983The TartanPage 19
I Mellon and[ Cash streamBanks to offer coast-to-coast convenience
I* continued from page 7
buttons and your transaction is complete. 
With all that they can do, these machines 
would almost seem to eliminate the need for
banks.
In this area the two main banking 
machine systems are Cashstream and MAC, 
both of which are located downstairs in 
Skibo. Most local banks belong to one of 
these systems. Since their introduction, the 
growth of these systems has been pheno
menal. For example, Cashstream now has
- 583 machines on-line in four states, and their 
first transaction just took place February 3. 
It wont be long before these machines 
are expanded into all fifty states. Imagine 
being able to withdraw money in Atlantic 
City, New Jersey from a bank right in 
Pittsburgh.
Why have these machines become so pop
ular? The main reason has to be their con
venience. In Pittsburgh they are located 
almost anywhere you go, and they are open 
twenty-four hours a day. For many people, 
especially students here at CMU, it is much 
easier to go to the banking machine than to 
go to the bank, I havent had to go to the bank 
since Ive been here, mainly because I 
really dont have any need for one. These 
machines cant do everything that a bank 
does; for instance, you cant get a loan from 
one or take out a mortgage on one, but for 
the student on the go they are perfect.
By now you are probably saying to your
self, These things sound like the greatest 
inventions since Iron City beer! This may 
be true, but like Iron City these machines 
can sometimes leave a bad taste in your
mouth. Their biggest problem is mechani
cal difficulties. Like any machine they will 
break down occasionally. Not to worry, 
they are usually repaired within a day or so. I 
should also mention here a few restrictions 
which may be of interest. Money can only be 
withdrawn in denominations erf five or ten 
dollars, depending on the machine. And for
you big spenders, there is a limit on the 
amount of money you can withdraw in a 
single day: two to three hundred dollars, 
again depending on the machine.
If you are interested in getting a banking 
card, ask your bank about it If your bank 
doesnt have a banking machine system, 
take your business to a bank that does.
A Phi O run benefits autism
By KEVIN MALLISON
Special for the Tartan
Over $1000 was raised last weekend in A 
Phi Os 75 mile relay with Saturdays PittWVU gameball. The money goes to benefit 
the National Society for Autistic Children 
(NSAC).
At least 25 runners participated, starting 
Friday morning at Pitt Stadium and arriv
ing noon Saturday at Mountaineer Field. 
The ball was run along U.S. Route 19. CMU 
sent seven members and raised $75.
Donating may be made by phoning (412) 
766-1311 or (304) 293-3071.
JOE FRESHMAN
lAStTWyTiwi
W5 UB RiPOftT/ 
VIONDfK. IP M10 
V^Ati fo Tu*M Vf IN?
Presenting 
the $695 typewriter 
that comes with 
these letters _ 
of recommendation.
Its the IBM Personal Typewriter.
603 Stanwix St. (in the Gateway Center), Pittsburgh 
Mon.-Fri. 9:30 to 5 (Mon. c Thurs. til 9) Sat. 10 to 4 
(412) 642-7600 
Free parking available
By Mark Levine
SENIORS!
The
CLASS OF 1984
Senior Class Gift
Our gift will be from you too!
So get involved . . .
. . . vote on your choice for the gift
? Class of 1984 Annual Event Fund
 an event to be held annually
? Class of 1984 Scholarship Fund
 an endowed scholarship to be awarded 
annually forever in our names
? I suggest:______________________________________________________________
Name________________________________________________________________________
Local Address_______________________________________________________
? I wish to become involved with the 
Qass of 1984 Senior Gift Committee.
Return to: 
Class of 1984 Senior Gift 
519 Warner Hall
Or call: 
578-2021

---------------------------------------------------

-SSafSOnKnSsik
classifieds
Dianes Secretarial Service Resumes, academic, 
business and personal typing. Pick up and deliv
ery available. 464-1618.
Flying Fingers word processing. Business or aca
demic. Papers, resumes, cover letters, etc. Student 
rates available. Erika Van Sickel 241-1338.
Will type term papers, dissertations, letters, 
resumes, manuscripts and so forth. Reasonable 
rates. Call Shirley before 9 p.m. 521-0534. 
HELP VVANTED: PART-TIME position avail
able for college student to represent trawl com
pany on campus. Earn commission, free travel 
and work experience. Contact: Beachcomber 
Tours, Inc. 1325 Millersport Hgwy., Williamsville, NY 14221, 716-632-3723.
DISCOUNT SOFTWARE for IBM/PC, Apple, 
Atari, etc. BBase IIJ385; Lotus 1-2-3 $325; much 
more. Call for price list. Monterey Microsystems. 
456-7478.
Babysitter wanted. Experienced babysitter to care 
for infant in Squirrel Hill home. Flexible, parttime hours offered. References and own transpor
tation required. 421-4667 between 9 a.m. and 
noon.
Needed  a David Lee Roth look-alike for a Van 
Halen air guitar band. If interested and can drink 
Jack Daniels and do splits, contact Jeff or Cam at 
681-5270.
Wanted  dependable used 10-speed bike, 
approx. 26" frame. If it rolls, I might buy it! Call 
Jim 521-1913 eve.
Roommate needed to share apt. on N. Neville St.
10 min. walk to campus. Located near grocery 
store, laundromat, etc. Call 682-7133 after 4:30.
Rock guitar instruction book. Learn leads, 
chords, slide, etc. Send $5.95 to Peter Press, P.O. 
Box 7106M, Pgh., PA 15213.
Professional Typing Services available on short 
notice. Resumes, dissertations, manuscripts, 
books. Jackie 372-1376 evenings, weekends.
Hey Wes, Is the stove on?
We love our new pledges! Chi Omega, Delta 
Delta Delta, Delta Gamma, Kappa Alpha Theta, 
and Kappa Kappa Gamma.
Typing jobs sought. Last minute assignments 
accepted. Editing available. Use latest model 
IBM equipment. Fees negotiable. ELLEN: 422- 
0955.
Ski  Only five days until youre 21! Happy 
Birthday from your loving fan club.
general
How much does sex discrimination in insurance really cost? The sex-based actuarial tables tradi
tionally used by insurance companies have come 
under fire from consumer groups and feminists, 
and legislators have taken up the cause recently. 
Is there a sound statistical basis for discrimina
tory tables? How much of a difference is reflected 
in individuals insurance tabs? What is the eco
nomic impact of insurance discrimination on 
women as a group. Find out at the next meeting 
of Squirrel Hill NOW, Tudesday, October 11, at 
7:30 pm, at the Sixth Presbyterian Church, 
Forbes and Murray Avenues.
Dr. Crecine to have open office hours for stu
dents. Senior Vice President for Academic Affairs 
John P. Crecine will have open office hours for 
students between 3 and 5 p.m. in his office, 610 
Warner Hall, on Monday, October 10, 1983. Stu
dents who wish to meet with Dr. Crecine should 
telephone his office, 578-2056, to set up an 
appointment.
The CMU Peace Alliance invites student 
faculty, and staff to its meeting Wednesday at 5 
pm in Skibo 45. Come learn more about what we 
can do towards peace-making. This week a Ger 
man student will tell us about the p>eace movtj 
ment in Germany and the Green Party. For more 
info contact Andy Hisgen x3053, Dan Rosenb.1 
lum x2185 or Felicia Pratto x3692.
Biology Majors: You are invited to attend a leeture featuring Dr. Ron Betz representing the 
genetic research fellowship of Pittsburgh Platf 
Glass at the Mellon Institute. Come to Skibo 45 
on Wednesday, October 5th at 7:00 p.m. A 1 
Beta Beta meeting previous to the lecture will 
begin at 6:30 p.m. Please join us for both.
Interested in practicing business and earning money on campus? Then Student Corporation
for you. Students from all majors are welcome to 
call x3535 for information about Student Corpo
ration or to stop by a meeting any Monday at 5 
p.m. in Skibo 13.
Male Singers Wanted. Winchester-Thurston 
school auditions for Jacques Brel. . . todav and 
tomorrow, 3:30-5 pm. Prepare one song. For 
information call 578-7500.
YOU'UE GOT TO PLAY HARDBALL
WHEN IT COMES TO YOUR CAREER
THAT'S WHY 
NSA OFFERS 
YOU THESE 
EXCITING 
CAREER
OPPORTUNITIES
ELECTRONIC
ENGINEERING
There are opportunities in 
a variety of research and 
development project* 
ranging from individual 
equipments to very 
complex interactive 
systems involving large 
numbers of 
microprocessors, mini
computers and computer 
graphics. Professional 
growth is enhanced 
through interaction with 
highly experienced NSA 
professionals and through 
contacts in the industrial 
and academic worlds. 
Facilities for engineering 
analysis and design 
automation are among the 
best available.
MATHEMATICS
You'N work on diverse 
agency problems applying 
a variety of mathefnatkal 
disciplines. Specific 
assignments might indwde 
solving communicationsrelated problems, 
performing long-range 
mathematical research or 
evaluating new techniques 
for communications 
security.
LINGUISTS
NSA offers a wide range 
of challenging assignments 
for Slavic, Near Eastern 
and Asian language majors 
involving translation, 
transcription and analysis/ 
reporting. Newly-hired 
linguists can count on 
receiving advanced training 
in their primary language(s) 
and can plan on many 
years of continued 
professional growth.
COMPUTER
SCIENCE
At NSA you'll discover one 
of the largest computer 
installations in the world 
with almost every major 
vendor of computer 
equipment represented. 
NSA careers provide 
mixtures of such disciplines 
as systems analysis and 
design, scientific 
applications programming, 
data base management 
systems, operating 
systems, computer 
networking/security, and 
graphics.
o1-,
Fort George G. Meade, Maryland 20755
An Equal Opportunity Employer, U.S. Citizenship Required.
On campus recruiting 
October 13,1983.
THE REWARDS 
AT NSA
NSA offers a salary and 
benefit program that's 
truly competitive with 
private industry. There are 
assignments for those who 
wish to travel and 
abundant good living in the 
Baltimore-Washington area 
for those who wish to stay 
close to home.
Countless cultural, 
historical, recreational and 
educational opportunities 
are just minutes away 
from NSA's convenient 
suburban location.
To find out more 
about NSA career 
opportunities, 
schedule an interview 
through your college 
placement office. For 
additional information 
on the National 
Security Agency, 
write to National 
Security Agency,
Attn: M322, Fort 
George G. Meade, 
Maryland 20755.
CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CALL S7S-2+21CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A
