tartan
December 4, 1973 Volume 74 Number 11
SWANK, RUTLEDGE ISSUE ORDER
Operations To Shun Student Meetings
by Tom Kendig
The heads of Housing, Food Service, 
and Security will no longer attend meetings 
of MDC, WDC and UFO except when 
students specifically request their presence 
through the Department of Student 
Affairs.
The new ruling, which covers all student 
organizations, is stated in a memorandum 
from Dean of Student Affairs Earle R. 
Swank. The only employee of the uni
versity Division Operations who will 
continue to attend student meetings 
regularly is Ombudsman Frank Colosimo.
The new situation is creating a lot of 
unnecessary red tape, complains Bob 
Linn, president of MDC. It seems that the 
administration is in the process of an 
attempt to isolate themselves from the 
2. student body.
The memorandum gave three reasons 
for this policy. First, having three Opera
tions personnel present at student meetings 
is a large unnecessary drain on their 
administrative time. Second, the directors 
tend to expose information and make 
decisions that are outside their jurisdiction. 
Third, the attendance of the directors 
j tended to turn meetings into 
quasi-management meetings.
Dean Swank also commented that 
MDCs function is self-government in the 
dorms. His memo ct>tes, In no sense is
this move intended to cut off access by 
students as individuals to any of these 
administrators, rather, however, itis 
intended fo redirect the functions 
of. . . MDC and the WDC to their primary 
concern for self-government and the social 
welfare of their residents.
According to Colosimo, this memo is in 
effect doing two things. First, it is 
restoring the front line of student contact 
to the Department of Student Affairs, 
giving exposure back to the deans . . . 
Operations is letting Student Affairs be its 
mouthpiece. Second, it is protecting 
against students getting conflicting stories.
Linn thinks the new policy puts a lot of 
burden on student organizations to anti
cipate upcoming problems involving the 
operations division. They must contact 
Student Affairs well in advance to ask 
operations personnel to attend meetings.
Just one example would be in relation-^ 
ship to housing students over Christmas 
break. The housing office is certainly aware 
of this problem but unless a student organ
ization is able to anticipate this problem 
and ask for a representative there's no way 
the student organization can pass 
information along to its constituents.
Referring to statements made last year 
by Director of Operations Ronald 
Rutledge, Linn said, It's certainly inter
esting to note how quickly last years 
theory that the student is a customer was 
abandoned.
Calendario Drop Listings
by Kevin Turcotte
If 1 was a professor looking for a job 
here and I saw the campus calendar, I think 
I would take the earliest plane and leave, 
says Dr. Herbert Simon, Richard King 
Mellon Professor of Psychology and 
member of the board of trustees.
Beginning next semester, there will be a 
difference in the calendar, though the 
change will not necessarily satisfy Dr. 
Simon.
Barbara Hobbs, who edits the calendar, 
plans to drop listings that repeat every 
week without alteration. A bulletin board 
will be put up in Skibo to give the part
iculars of recurrent events, and a list at the 
end of the calendar will refer readers to the 
board.
And, with the help of academic depart
ment heads, more seminars, lectures and 
colloquia will appear in the calendar.
The change is an attempt to remove 
some of the clutter in the calendar, says 
Ms. Hobbs. Some of the most obvious 
deletions will be regular Sunday church 
services and the Gay coffeehouse held 
weekly at the First Unitarian Church, but 
campus groups like the Pistol Club and the 
C-MU Explorers are also going to be
Photo by Ric Werme 
Barbara Hobbs, editor of the Campus Calendar.
affected by the change.
Interest in changing the calendar started 
as early as last March, when Dr. Simon 
spoke to a staff member of Public 
Relations, the university office which 
publishes the weekly calendar.
continued on page 10
Photo by Fred Shamlian 
Alternatives depend on which chosen: Dean 
of Student Affairs, earle Swank.
Cyert Receives 
Jaycees Award
Richard M. Cyert will be honored as 
Man of the Year in Education at the 34th 
annual banquet given by the Pittsburgh 
Jaycees on January 27 at the Hilton Hotel. 
Nominations for the award are solicited 
from city leaders before a ballot is made 
up. Winners, judged by their peers, are 
chosen in 14 other categories, including an 
all-around man *of the year. I.W. Abel, 
president of the United Steelworkers of 
America, has been designated to receive 
that award.
Cyert has also been the recipient of the 
John Guggenheim Memorial Foundation 
Fellowship, the Ford Foundation Faculty 
Research Fellowship, and most recently 
the Hofstra Faculty Distinguished Scholar 
Award. He received that award during the 
first annual presentation, at ceremonies 
inaugurating Robert L. Payton as the fifth 
president of Hofstra University.
Oper at iponsTSh 
udsh MrngT ChplD
by Debbie Siegel
Weekend activities in Skibo will be 
restricted until a committee finds a 
solution to a shortage of custodial service.
Director of Stude'nt Activities Robert 
McCurdy reports that student activities, 
catered events, and open houses for 
prospective freshmen increased the use of 
Skibo this year and created a heavier work 
load for the custodial staff.
Because we prefer working with 
students, continued McCurdy, we often 
ignore those things. As we are in charge of 
scheduling for Skibo, we must assume the 
blame for bad conditions.
Two examples illustrate. One con
ference group which rented a facility in 
Skibo found such a mess that they had to 
get brooms and sweep out the room them
selves. And at an open house for 
prospective freshmen, a member of the 
universitys administration began collecting 
garbage in a plastic bag.
An investigation of allotment of 
custodial staff in Skibo has begun by the 
Department of Student Activities and the 
Physical Planning Department. The Depart
ment of Student Activities has no money 
in the budget to secure more staff and the 
investigation may lead Physical Planning to 
take steps to hire more manpower.
The custodial staff for Skibo presently 
consists of eight people working 40 hour 
shifts. They must cover a ground area 
which includes the Tartan Grill. Wherrett 
Room. Ball Room, Faculty Lounge, and 
special activities throughout the building.
Between noon on Friday and noon on 
Monday, when more staff is needed for 
special events, the least number of 
custodial staff is working.
Three alternative solutions have been 
proposed to help alleviate the problem. 
The first suggestion is a redistribution of 
the manpower which would increase the 
number of people working on the week
ends. McCurdy is pessimistic about this 
solution. Another alternative is to limit the 
number of activities scheduled for the 
weekend.
A third possibility would allow a limited 
number of activities to occur and the 
sponsoring groups would be required to 
bring in their own custodial staff to clean 
and set up. McCurdy feels this arrangement 
would be to the detriment of students 
continued on page 11
Senate May Axe Leaders
by Steven'Correll .
The newly elected Student Senate 
rejected a vote of confidence in its leaders 
last week, paving the way for replacing 
some of them at todays meeting.
The motion to give a vote of confidence 
in all Senate chairmen, offered by Com
muter Senator Edward Simon, failed by a 
vote of 6-7 with 18 abstentions. Simon 
then moved to table the matter until 
today, delaying for one week the process 
of taking a separate vote of confidence for 
each officer. That motion passed 15 to 10 
with 2 abstentions.
Asked why he offered the motion. 
Simon explained, It seemed like a
reasonable thing to do. . . theres no 
specific end or beginning to Senate. It 
seems reasonable to give people a chance to 
vote on the officers just like we did last 
year.
Simon predicts that at least one com
mittee chairman will be replaced. Asked if 
he opposes a vote of confidence in Sacco, 
Simon said. 1 wouldnt know yet ... 1 
will have to hear the arguments for and 
against. I know how he has served in office, 
and that will influence my vote.
Another senator told the TARTAN that 
Simon approached him before the meeting 
and solicited his vote to help oust Sacco.
Holdovers from last term include the 
continued on page 6

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2  THE TARTAN - Tuesday, December 4. 1973
EDITORS MOTE
On Wednesday morning the Editor-in-Chief of the TARTAN got a 
call asking her to come to the office of C-MU Vice President for 
Development John G. Johnson. The call didnt explain why.
Johnsons main function at this university is the solicitation of funds 
from large donors.
As the Editor-in-Chief walked into Johnsons office, President Cyert 
walked out.
"There she is now, said Cyert.
Johnson demanded to know who told the TARTAN that Alfred 
Hunt and Richard Scaife helped kill the Flinn House Rehabilitation 
Center project. The Editor-in-Chief refused to tell him. Then he 
complained that we had misled him in mentioning a specific name during 
the course of an interview. We never checked out the name because we 
never intended to use it in print, but apparently Johnson didnt exercise 
that much discretion and thus managed to get himself in trouble.
Johnson then told the Editor-in-Chief that if she wouldnt reveal the 
name of the TA RTANs source, she could leave.
"Youh get back to me in an hour with the information? he said.
The TARTAN did not tell him the name then and the TARTAN isnt 
going to.
WE ARE LOSING THEM NOW UNLESS.....
Letters
Amidst the continual debate over the tenure system one "means is 
seldom discussed and one "end is seldom altered.
The Means: On one hand, 50% of the decision to grant tenure is based on a 
questionably defined qualifierexcellence in teaching. Whileon theother, the 
means of determining that excellence, the students, is ignored.
There is something ironic about a 1970 winner of the Ryan Award for 
Meritorious Teaching failing to be recommended for tenure. It is more 
than a matter of a perhaps outmoded system. The Commission on 
Academic Tenure in Higher Education recommended last spring "that 
students have a greater role-short of an actual vote on tenure-in the 
evaluation of faculty performance.
Here at CMU however, A Phi O rankings are used to oust poor 
instructors or to defend a departments importance. They are not, ap
parently, used in retaining faculty members that students deem excellent. 
Both James Korn, Psychology Department and John Renaldo, History 
Department, have consistently scored above 4.0 in these evaluations; both 
will not gain tenure. It can only be assumed that less weight is given to 
quality in teaching.
The End: Because student defined excellence is not heeded, we are 
losing at least two outstanding professors. The administrations wish to get 
both excellence in teaching and in research seems definitely to lean 
towards the latter.
The "publish or perish philosophy attempts to measure the value of a 
teacher by the quantity of his publications and not by the quality of his 
teaching. This seems particularly true with respect to Renaldo
This is not meant to provoke a contest of wills, here. CMU has to 
recognize that it is nothing less than ludicrous to let exceptional faculty 
leave simply because they have not been granted tenure.
Teachers recognized by the students or by awards ought not to be 
edged out of the university over tenure. Why not retain that teacher by 
contract for an extended period of time? Why deny the students as
sured excellence in teaching in favor of possible mediocrity or worse?
The Commission acknowledged that "tenure, like so many other 
things these days, does not work as well as it once did.  It doesnt matter 
really, though someone ought to explain just what took precedence over 
the exceptional teaching ability of both Renaldo and Korn (and perhaps 
others). The university is going to continue to lose excellent faculty.
A voice in tenure must now be given to the students. No departmental 
group, no dean can judge the excellence of a teacher except second 
handedly. But we can.
Christine Infante 
Editor in Chief
Editor:
I was shocked and dismayed when I 
found that the psychology department is 
losing some of its finest teachers. And 1 
mean real teachersthey reach out to 
students minds, take time to listen, 
encourage, and understand us. From the 
students viewpoint, the psychology
department will definitely be weakened by 
their loss. 1 feel sorry for incoming under
graduates who will miss the contact with 
these warm, personable faculty members 
who are actively concerned with
undergraduates.
Having had Dr. Korn and Dr. Hayes 
within the classroom, Ive found both to be 
outstanding in their ability to relate subject 
material as well as their empathy with the 
students. With their loss it becomes in
creasingly evident that concern for the un
dergraduate runs low in the department. 
Although there have been substantial
improvements in curriculum, our needs go 
beyond courses offered to the quality of 
teaching behind them. We need more 
teachers who stimulate student motivation, 
who share mutual respect, and who relate 
to students problems and are willing to 
give of themselves. I am sorry to see the
loss of high quality teachers within ouf* 
department.
Daryl M. Hlavsa 
Jr., Psych. Major
Editor: 4b
I would like to respond to the letter 
from Anne Collins, who complains because 
Student Senate refused to fund the Young 
Socialist Alliance:
I am the senator who moved to strike 
the YSA budget from the finance 
committee minutes. As Vice-Chairman and 
senior member of finance committee^ 
have never seen a group of only eight stu
dents whose spokesman is a non-student 
have the gall to ask for so much money.
YSA is not a proved organization. It had 
been officially recognized for only two 
weeks when it requested Senate support. 
And it asked for $3,713.05more than any 
groups except AB, TARTAN, WRCT and 
Spring Carnival, all groups that have prov^pj 
that they can spend money responsibly. 
(The $574 that Ms. Collins mentions is not 
the YSAs original request, but rather the 
amount left when finance committee 
finished paring down the proposed 
budget.)
Ms. Collinss claim that Senate refused 
to fund YSA because it felt YSA is a 
continued on pag^
tartan
Editor in Chief
Christine Infante
Managing Editor
Gary Singer
News Editor........................Steve Correll
Features Editor . . . . Shelley Burhans 
Head Reporter ...... Debbie Siegel
News and Features Staff . .Michael Baum 
Bill Bromley, Gary Bronheim 
Steve Calhoun, Sandy Como 
John Craun, Sharon Curcio 
Thomas Kendig, Chris Kiskaddon 
Tom Lang, Amy Reitmeyer 
Stephen Saunders, Barbara Shumovich 
Rob Simbeck, Ron Smith 
Kate Stainton, Kevin Turcotte 
Lois Wholey, Chip Yeager
Business Manager
Dwayne Smalls
Entertainment Editor . . Susan N. Klein 
Entertainment Staff . . Terry Caywood 
Mark Evan ChimSky, Craig Collins 
Arnie Karr, Stacey Robin Kimb 
Hank Levy, Sharon Neustein 
Steve Perkins, Cyndy Schmidt 
Doug Stone, Debbie Weiss 
George Bias,Jay Cohen
Sports Editor ....................Jeff Englund
Sports Staff....................Glenn Campbell
Ken Kloes, Leslie Allen 
Mary Chabala, Jim Litsas 
Mike Pochan, Mark Schiffm^l
Advertising Manager.Lester Nathan
Photography Editors . . . Elliot Arons
Ed Levine Layout Staff..........................Anne Golden
Photography Staff . . . Bruce Edelston . . . .Cathy Kinneavy, Louise LoPinto
Ellen Eddy, Chris Forland
Nick Lardas, Elliot Popowitz Cartoonists .........................Ron Wiggins
Rod Reilly, John Rose .............................................Kitty Fjscher
Frederick Shamlian, John Shettel 0
Courtney Larson, Bryan Smith Copy staff ............................Mina Gerall
Frank Stein, Ric Werme Sandy Preuhs, Cyndy Schmidt
The Edirorial Board, of the TARTAN reserves the right to edit or withhold any copy that it 
considers unfit for publication. Published every Tuesday during the academic year by the studeni 
government of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 15213. Deadlines are 12 noon 
for announcements, classified ads and letters to the editor and 5:00 p.m. for articles and display 
ads on the Wednesday preceding the Tuesday of publication. Editorial and Business offices are 
located in Skibo 50. Telephone (412) 682-4557 or campus extension 656. -
*
This is the last issue of the TARTAN during the Fall Semester. 
Our next issue will be Tuesday, January 22, 1974.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, December 4, 1
NEWS COMMENT
THE AMERICAN WAY
America through its politics and economics has revealed itself to be 
s"crisis oriented. There was the "Middle East Crisis, the "Vietnam 
Crisis, otherwise known as the "threat of Communism, there is the 
"Watergate Crisis and most recently the "Energy Crisis. 
In 1969 US reserves of crude oil dropped by 1 billion barrels. In 
1971 the Office of Emergency Preparedness first warned of possible 
future shortages. During the first four months of 1972 the nations 
refineries were operating at only 84% of total capacity. In 1972 OEP 
director General George Lincoln predicted a shortage of 350,000 barrels 
of oil a day. In a report published by Chase Manhatten Bank in June 1972 
. it was stated ''both oil and natural gas 'are now in short supply. Domestic 
Production is not sufficient to meet current needs - and the deficit is 
certain to become progressively worse in the years ahead. 
The "Energy Crisis has existed, in less sensationalistic forms, for a 
much longer time period than the Middle East embargo. Informed sources 
have been warning industry and government alike for at least three years, 
with members of the science community predicting an "energy crisis for 
even longer. Governments response to these repeated warnings was 
described by one OEP aide when he said that one of his memos on 
, imports that he wrote in 1972 "should have been called The Emperor s
* New Clothes.
But now in late 1973 the "energy crisis, with the aid of the Middle 
East, has finally arrived and panic has hit all elements of American Society 
as demonstrated in the negative slope curve of the Dow Jones A verage. 
The "crisis has provoked everything from a decrease in productivity, and 
increase in unemployment, and even the possibility of the extension of 
the school year into the summer rather than winter months. The New 
York Times reports that "In New York City Consolidated Edison was 
granted permission to burn high-sulfur oil for six months. This is expected
* to increase the amount of sulfur dioxidt in the air by 10 percent. 
Because of the "crisis element of the situation, environmental 
concerns are being sacrificed. "Some short-run downgrading of en
vironmental standards may have to be accepted in an emergency; but that 
is a quite different thing from using the power shortage as a concealed 
weapon to destroy the enviornmental gains of the past decade,  said the 
Times in an editorial. Because of the "crisis element of the situation only 
temporary remedies are being executed, like fuel rationing and school 
closing with long term solutions getting second priority. It reminds me of 
v a lecture / once attended when a representative of a prominent 
Engineering firm said that his company had developed a workable solar 
energy mechanism that would supply an unlimited amount of power but 
was denied a grant by the Government Accounting Office because the 
plan "had no immediate usefulness. 
"Why didnt someone warn us? snaps a Houston housewife reports 
Newsweek.
Meanwhile, Gulf 0/7 reported a quarterly profit gain of 91 
percent.
Gary Singer 
Managing Editor
A
I received a copy of the TARTAN and, I thank you for it.
I was disappointed to see one glaring error, apparently a typographical error. 
There were not 58,000 babies born in Pittsburgh last year. When I talked on the phone 
I indicated that the number of births was approximately 5,800. According to Com
monwealth statistics (provisional pending final audit and late returns), in 1972 there 
were 5,769 babies born in Pittsburgh. In 1971 there were 6,803 babies born in 
Pittsburgh.
To compare the number of abortions done with a birth rate of 58.000 is not 
startling. To compare the number of abortions done with the actual birth rate of 5,769 
is indeed startling.
1 would really be interested to find out exactly how many abortions are 
performed at West Penn and Magee Hospitals. Your article quotes Mrs. Berg as stating 
that 1,500 are done at each institution, but the Post-Gazette reported that 1,700 were 
being done at each institution. The Abortion Clinic in downtown Pittsburgh reported 
in the Post-Gazette as doing them at the rate of 600-800 per month, which would be 
an annual rate of 7,200-9,600. The Post-Gazette reported that they were increasing 
their number of operating rooms by two to handle the heavy demand.
Your article said in part, According to Ms. Berg, West Penn and Magee each do 
1,500 abortions a year, not the 10,000 Arch claims. Of course, when I told you that 
more than 10,000 abortions were done per year, this was a composite figure of the 
three institutions mentioned.
As a sidelight, I was interested in Mrs. Bergs comments concerning the photo
graphs. The photograph that Mr. Mogush used was certified to be an accurate 
photograph of exactly what it was. It was not a staged fake. It might be interesting for 
you, as a journalist, to do a story on the use of photographs by both the pro-life 
organizations and the pro-abortion organizations. It would probably make an inter
esting study, for we both do use pictures. In fact, in some instances both camps even 
use the same photograph. I am advised that if one of the Abortion Clinics customers 
asks what is being destroyed, she is shown a picture of the chorion, which is the 
membrane which envelops the fetus which is external to and which encloses the 
amniotic sac and the amniotic fluid. When one looks at a picture of the chorion at, for 
example, the tenth week of pregnancy, it does, indeed, look like a blob. In fact, it 
reminds me of a pink sponge, because it is an extremely rough textured surface, much 
like a sponge. If one looks at what is inside the chorion, either by removing the 
contents or by cutting a window in the chorion, a well-formed fetus is seen, complete 
with arms and legs. In fact, in photos I have seen, one can even see the rio >ge. The 
prospective abortion customer is not shown the inside view.
It might be interesting if you, as a journalist, and reporter, would go to the 
Abortion Clinic and ask to go through the screen ing processes and procedures and ask 
to see any photographs that they might show their customers. I could then arrange for 
you to see the audio-visuals that are used by the pro-life organizations.
It might seem strange to you that I described the girls going to the Abortion 
Clinic as customers. I use this word because the Abortion Clinic is strictly speaking a 
money-making organization. They charge $150.00 for each abortion, and, multiplying 
this by the lower figure of 7,200 abortions per year, one sees that their annual income 
is Sj,080.000. Nobody knows who gets this money, but it is obvious that, even taking 
into consideration their claim of doing a few abortions free as charity cases, somebody 
is making substantial sums of money.
Also, 1 do not want you to misconstrue my use of the word customer as 
evidencing a callous disregard for those women who face overwhelming problem 
pregnancies.1 rn totally sympathetic to them, and I do not ever condemn them, and I 
actively support agencies which seek to help them solve the problems of their
offer abortion as the only solution to thepregnarcondemn those who 
raced.
s trial 
will pr
w;
oba
wh<
d becausi[rat
anuaryVI
tl final
11C lilt 
w 
id I v
JUI
tilings: 
I mind.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - /i THE TARTAN - Tuesday, Djeceqitye^ ^l^MlT
ANNOUNCEMENTS4
There will be a meeting of coordinators
and members of Student Advisory Com
mittees of all departments of alt the 
Colleges on Wednesday, December 5, 1973 
at 11:30 am. in the Wherrett Room, Skibo. 
(You may wish to bring your lunch with 
you.) Please plan to attend this meeting 
where the work and organisation of 
College-wide student advisory committees 
will be discussed. If you, yourself, are un
able to attend, please appoint > another 
member of your SAC to represent your 
Department. If your Department cannot be 
represented at the meeting, please call the 
Faculty Senate Office, ext. 464.
Announcing: P&S Courses Open To All
Students: ART FOUNDATIONS 60-102: 
Primarily a painting course using a basic set 
of materials appropriate to acquiring a fun
damental knowledge of art through the ap
plication of a variety of media: acrylics, 
oil, encaustic (wax), and watercolor, Color 
perception is stressed as well as drawing as 
a means of achieving the two-dimensional 
image. Frequent trips to local museums 
and galleries will be required. Text, as well 
as inexpensive Polaroid camera. Lab fee:
S 18.00. 9 units, T&TH 8:30-11:30 am.
DESIGN 60-108: A comprehensive
open-ended program of design experiences 
based upon each student's capability in the 
use and manipulation of materials using a 
wide range of simple hand tools. Emphasis 
is placed upon the visual-tactile process. 
Design concepts are discussed according to 
individual levels of awareness. Sculpture is 
the primary focus. Lab Fee: $18.00 9 
units, T&Thj 8:30,-11 j 30 am.
If you would like to enroll in either of 
these courses for next semester, and these 
schedules conflict with your projected 
schedule, alternatives can be arranged. 
Contact Professor Breland, X603, P&S 
office, or 243-6167.
THE TENTH MUSE will present the last
coffeehouse of the semester on Friday, De
cember 7 at 9 pm. in the Wherrett Room. 
Folk and country music will be provided 
by Harry Waller and Rick Lacy. Free 
admission and food. Open to the Campus 
community.
The Annual International Fair will be held
this week in Skibo Lobby. The Fair, which 
is sponsored by the Women's Service Or
ganization, will feature imported mer
chandise from all over the world. The Fair 
will be held this Wednesday and Thursday 
from 11 am to 10 pm, and Friday, 11 am 
to 4 pm.
RESEARCH
Thousands of Topics 
$2.75 per page
Send for your up to date, 160-page, mail order catalog. Enclose $1.00 to cover postage (delivery time is 1 to 2 days).
RESEARCH ASSISTANCE, INC. 11941 WILSHIRE BLVD., SUITE -2 LOS ANGELES, CALIF. 90025 (213)477-8474 or 477-5493Our research material is sold for research assistance only.
On Friday night, December 14 there will
be an "Audition Night at the Pittsburgh 
Power and Light Company. If you want to 
hear a sampling of talent from all around 
the Pittsburgh area, come on down to 408 
Boulevard of the Allies, downtown. Power
& Light is open from 8 to midnight and 
admission is free.
Al Mossburg is returning to the Pittsburgh
Power & Light Company Coffeehouse on 
December 7th to finish up his western 
Pennsylvania tour. Power & Light is lo
cated at 408-Boulevard of the Allies, down
town. Flours are from 8 to midnight, and 
admission is free.
Psychology SAC meeting: Tuesday,
December 4th, 4:30 pm Baker Hall 340-A. 
Reception before the meeting in the 
psychology lounge, Baker Hall 336-D, 3:30 
pm. Doughnuts and coffee.
An exhibition of paintings and ceramics by
Jody Bikoff, Jeanie Jaffe and Terry Sugg 
will be featured next at the CMU Students' 
Gallery, 5200 Forbes Avenue. The artists 
are all students in the CMU department of 
Painting and Sculpture. The'exhibitton will 
open Monday, December 3 and will run 
through Friday, December 14. The Gallery 
is open to the public Tuesday, Wednesday, 
Friday and Saturday from 11:30 am to 
5:30 pm; and Thursday from 11:30 am to 
8:30 pm.
All fire alarm systems will be tested at the
end of each month in accordance with the 
following schedule: All Housing fire alarm 
systems will be tested beginning at 7:30 am 
on the last Friday of each month. All other 
campus building systems will be tested be
ginning at 7:30 am, on the last Thursday of 
each month. This is not intended as a fire 
drill, and therefore should be disregarded. 
Should an actual fire occur on one of these 
days, observers should report directly to 
Security, (ext. 666), emphasizing "This is 
not a test. These tests will normally be 
completed by noon, but may extend into 
the afternoon when delays are caused by 
malfunctioning equipment or by 
unscheduled emergencies requiring the 
services of the electricians conducing the 
tests.
The members of the Assumption Parish are
forming an organization to provide social 
entertainment for single people over 18 
years of age, This organization is open to 
all residents of the north boroughs area. 
For* further information call Ronald 
Rabatin at 734-0634.
Paying student jobs in ski and other winter
resorts are still available in Europe. Jobs 
are given out on a first come, first served 
basis to any full or part time student who 
applies immediately. Most of the obs are 
in Al-pine -ski resorts in Switzerland, Aus
tria, Germany and France. There are also 
openings in hotels and restaurants in larger 
cities.
Any student between the ages of 17 and 
27 may obtain a job application form, job 
listings and descriptions, and the SOS 
Handbook on earning your way in Europe 
by sending their name, address, educational 
institution, and $1 (for printing, postage, 
addressing and handling) to either SOS, 
Student Overseas Services, Box 5173, San
ta Barbara, Calif. 93108 or to SOS, 22 Ave 
de la Liberte, Luxembourg, Europe. Inter
ested students are advised to prepare them
selves by obtaining, and holding until re
quested, 3 small passport sized 
photographs and a letter of recommenda
tion from either a school official or former 
employer
The Finance Division Offices will operate
on a reduced staff basis on registration day, 
January 7, 1974, in order to' utilize as 
many people-as possible in expediting and 
completing our part of the registration pro
cess. We believe this modification of our 
operating routine willpermit us to com
plete the posting of student receivab e 
records and serve the student body more 
promptly and efficiently. On January 7,
1974, registration day, all Finance Division 
Offices,' except Payroll, will be operated by. 
a skeleton force primarily to receive tele
phone communications. The Payroll Office 
will be staffed in the normal fashion since 
it will be processing hourly payroll data.
The Finance Division will make every 
effort to accommodate requests for ser
vices such as travel -advances, early pay
checks, etc. in the week of December 31 
through January 4. Please anticipate these 
needs early in the week. All Finance Divi
sion Offices will be operating normally on 
January 8, 1974, except for the Cashiers' 
Office, which will be open only to receive, 
payments and to process student bills.
Wine and Cheese party sponsored by the
Modern Language Department and the Lat
in American Club, for all majors and mem
bers. We extend a' special invitation to all 
foreign students. It should be -a great 
evening. If you want to dance, bring good 
music! Wednesday, December 12, 8:00 pm, 
Mudge Grad. House Lounge. For further 
information, call 687-4909.
Fencing club meets Monday, Wednesday
and Thursday at 4:30 in the gamesroom 
beneath the girls' gym. Also Tuesday nite 
at 7:30 in the girls' gym. We have 
equipment and give free instruction. Plus
we fence 
weekends.
in tournaments on mosi
TRAVEL TO EUROPE$185
Jet nonstop from Pittsburgh, Dec. 20-29, 
2 full meals daily, first class hotel, 
tips, etc. included.
For as low as $185.00 round trip 
charter airfare.
Students, staff, faculty, groups.
%
Call 624-8082, 624-7323,
683-4392, or 683-0503
Peer Help is located in Baker Hall 150-A. If
you need assistance for whatever reason: 
medical information, legal referral, preg
nancy, abortion, VD, personal hassles-drop 
in or call 68.7-7414.
4
Classified Ads
Stereo: Sony 6200-F Receiver. This unit is
brand new. 3-year warranty. Will sell below 
Dealer Cost. List $700, sale $450. Randy 
Currin, B-108 Mudge, 682-3442.
Zen study group welcomes all serious^
students interested in esoteric matters, 
truth, satori. Thursdays, 8:30 pm., Pitt 
student Union 319.
Two beautiful people wanted to share a*
room in a beautiful, spacious apartment, 5 
minute walk from CMU and Pitt. Call any 
time: 687-0023.
FUR LINED JOCKS. A gift for the man
who has everything. Brightly colored jocks. 
Genuine bunny fur lined. Sizes med.-lg. \ 
Rush $5.00 to: RD Enterprises, Box
13022, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15243.
PERSONALS
Dear Anna:
If time were mine 
To redesign
I'll tell you what I'd do.
I'd find a way 
To change each day 
To spend more time with you. 
Mon. thru Fri.
I find that I
Am bored beyond belief.
Just half alive,
I must survive
Five days w|th no relief.
Sat. finally comes,
And off I run
To hold you tight at last.
Then Sun. is here,
Again I swear:
"The weekends go too fast!
, Well, this I say,
Let's switch the days,
 You know just what I mean. 
Two Sats., two Suns.
No Tues. or Mons.
And loving in between.
Carl
Sam, Elroy & Amos,
Am in the market for a '65 Ford. Would 
you be reasonable? /
Your Thanksgiving Tufkey
To the other 2/3rdsthanks for the greatest semester in 
history. I wnt for it in a big way!
Love,
The remaining 1 /3rd

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday. December 4,1973 - Page 5
Tartan Interview: Prof. Herbert Simon
by Steve Saunders
Dr. Herbert A. Simon is an R. K. Mellon 
Professor of Computer science and 
Psychology. He was also elected to the 
university's Board of Trustees a little over a 
year ago, making him the first faculty 
member/trustee in C-MU's history.
In 1949, he helped found GSIA, and has 
been an associate dean there since 1957. 
He has been a key figure in creating 
research and educational programs in 
computer science and information 
processing psychology. He was one of the 
first social scientists to be elected to the 
National Academy of Sciences. He is a 
pioneer in the computer simulation of 
thought processes.
The following is the first part of a 
two-part interview with Dr. Simon. The 
topics discussed in this part are his role as a 
faculty member and trustee and his work 
with the computer simulation of thought 
processes. The second part which concerns 
H&SS, will appear in the next issue 
(January 15).
Tartan: In the process of researching 
the article on the Psychology Department 
that appeared in the last issue of the 
TARTAN, we found that you had been 
made a trustee about a year or so ago. That 
was news to most of us. I dont think we 
ever reported it. Is this unprecedented? 
Simon: I think it's fairly unusual for 
somebody on a faculty to be on the Board 
of Trustees of that institution. It was rare 
for members of a faculty to be on the 
Board of Trustees of any institution, but 
its becoming a good deal more common. 
As a matter of fact, what first made me 
think of this was that, maybe four years 
ago, a university on the west coast asked 
me if Id go on the board there. I thought 
about it a while and decided that if Im 
going to do anything like that at all, why 
not do it for the home team instead of for 
the competition.
Tartan: But this has never happened here 
before.
Simon: Not to my knowledge, no. Im 
pretty sure it hasnt... In industry, (as 
opposed to universities), the analogous 
thing is quite common. That is, many 
companies have part or, in some cases, even 
all of their boards made up of members of 
the management. So-called inside boards 
in corporations. Most boards are mixedinside and outside boards. So though this is 
not terribly unprecedented from the stand
point of other kinds of organizations, I 
think it is for a university.
Tartan: How did you manage to do it? 
Simon: I dont know that 1 managed to do 
it. I was asked.
Tartan: How did it come about?
Simon: Well, this came up in the context 
of the presidential search committee. I was 
on the trustees search committee. In the 
course of that, the Chairman of the Board, 
Fred Foy, raised the question of what 
interest 1 might have in getting more 
involved in the administration around here. 
And that reminded me of the west coast 
business, and I said 1 thought I probably 
would be interested to serve on the board 
if they wanted it. So . . .
Tartan: So Fred Foy just asked you, 
essentially.
Simon: Well, and then presumably
discussed it and cleared it with the rest of. 
the board. Im not on the board as a repre
sentative of anybody. Im not on the board 
as a representative of the faculty. I was 
invited to be on the board.
Tartan: The first question that occurred to 
me when I heard about this was that you 
would find yourself in conflict because you 
are a faculty member, administrator, and 
trustee all at the same time. Does this 
happen?
Simon: Well, of course, everybody goes 
through life playing many different roles, 
also experiencing some conflicts. But to 
have a conflict there have to be different 
interests that are being represented. And 
for the most part, I dont really think that 
the things Im trying to accomplish as a 
faculty member are any different than the 
things Im trying to accomplish as a board 
member. So I think its not a situation 
thats very conflicting form that 
standpoint. The first place you learn about 
a conflict is inside yourself, and Ive been 
fairly unaware of conflicts since Ive been 
in the role. I thought about this in anticipa
tion and asked myself whether it would 
involve conflict. 1 didnt think it would and 
it really hasnt. And I really can only think 
of a very few situations where it seems to 
me I would be looking at a problem from a 
different point of view as a board member 
than as a faculty member. As a matter of 
fact, if you asked me for an example, Id 
be hard pressed to give you one. Maybe 
you can think of an example where it 
would be obvious that I would be thinking 
of things from a different point of view. 
Tartan: Well, as a trustee youve got to
be concerned mostly with monetary 
concerns, right?
Simon: No, I wouldn't say mostly . . . 
Tartan: More so than faculty, who would 
be more interested in absolute standards. 
Simon: If youre describing the state of
the world. Id agree. If you're saying most 
trustees are apt to think of the financial 
aspects of the university before they think 
of the academic, and most faculty mem
bers tend to think of the academic before 
they think of the financial. I surely would 
agree with that. But Im not sure that 
thats been true of myself. My professional 
interests when I came to Carnegie-Mellon 
were in the field of administration and 
organization. If youre interested in admin
istration and organization, you soon learn 
that an organization has to think both 
about what it's doing and what it's 
resources are. So I guess in that sense, my 
view of the world has always been a little 
different from a typical faculty view of the 
world.
I was asked to talk, six or seven years 
ago, to a meeting that the American 
Council on Education was running for new 
college presidents. If you read the publica
tion of that talk, youll see that there is 
quite as much concern with money as with 
educationI hope not more concern. But 
we get a job of educating done here Uy 
using resources. Its always easy to talk 
about pie in the sky. Its a little harder to 
bake it. Its still harder to get it to eat after 
youve baked it.
Tartan: 1 think Id like to go on and talk 
about some of your work. I read the 
proposal by you and Dr. Hayes about 
developing a program that enables a 
computer to define a problem directly 
from speech. This raised a lot of questions 
in my mind. As a humanist, it frightened 
me a little bit.
Simon: What aspect of it frightened you? 
Tartan: It seemed to me that this is 
another example of the computer 
becoming more and more human.
Simon: And you dont like things to 
become human.
Tartan: Well, it seemed to me that the 
machine was becoming more of a human 
mechanism . . . duplicating human 
mechanisms more.
Simon: Do you feel that same way when a 
new baby is bom?
Tartan: What do you mean?
Simon: Is it something about having too 
many human things around?
Tartan: No, it has to do with a machine, 
which is non-human, assuming more 
human traits. And the implication there is, 
if you take this to the limit, that soon 
there will be no distinction.
Simon: There was a famous Supreme Court 
case back in the 19th century on 
taxes ... as a matter of fact, a series of two 
cases. In the first one, the Supreme Court 
knocked down a tax ... it was a tax really 
intended as a regulation. The Supreme 
Court declared it unconstitutional, and in 
the opinion used the phrase, The power 
to tax is the power to destroy. And later 
on, another tax case came up in which the 
court decided the other way and said. The 
power to tax is not the power to destroy as 
long as this court sits. So he was saying 
you cant take it to the limit. And isn't 
that true of the artifacts that man builds? 
You can think of all kinds of science 
fiction stories about how things can be 
used in the limit. You can also find some 
true science, or some true history, about 
how things have been used in the limit. I 
guess the question is not whether we bring 
such things into being, but whether we 
think, on balance, theyre more apt to be 
used well or used badly. And I suppose 
someone wouldnt be in a scientific field, 
or maybe in any learned field, if he didn't 
think that, on balance, its better for
people to understand than not to 
understand.
Tartan: You dont see any dehumanizing 
implications to getting involved with a 
machine that can directly communicate 
with a human being, or that youre 
entering dangerous ground. There.
Simon: It doesnt cause my blood to come 
out of my veins. It doesnt cause my soul to 
escape from my body. Whats 
dehumanizing about it? Is it dehumanizing 
to get in that intimate relation with a ship 
that you have when you sail it? Do you 
sail?
Tartan: I have.
Simon: Did it seem dehumanizing to you? 
Do you drive a car?
Tartan: Yes, I do.
Simon: Dehumanizing? Are you more or 
less or the same amount of a person with 
or without a car?
Tartan: Its hard to say.
Simon: Well, I think it might be hard to 
say about a computer. In terms of just the 
direct interacting with it. Why am I less of 
a human being? What are we afraid of? 
Tartan: Im not really alraid. but I think it 
does get to a point where you start 
wonderingat least to someone who is not 
directly skilled with them.
Simon: Maybe you ought to get into the 
game. Its just lots of fun . . . But I fully 
appreciate that there are a lot of people 
who wont be particularly exhilirated by 
computers. I suppose there are people who 
aren't exhilirated by sailing a boat, 
although its hard to imagine. But I've 
never quite understood what the content 
of the dehumanization argument is. I think 
most people who make that argument have 
a picture like this: A computer is a 
machine. And a machine is like one of 
those things you saw in Charlie Chaplin's 
Modern Times. And we all know what 
they re like.
But there are a couple of links in that 
syllogism-if that is a syllogismthat really 
stand a little examination. Because we call 
a computer a machine, does that mean that 
it behaves like every other machine thats 
ever been made in the world? Well, that 
depends o how you program it. If you play 
chess with the computer about two oclock 
in the morning, its very hard not to call 
he after a while, or she. It's 
responding in a very flexible way. Just as 
its very hard to call your pet cat it. 
Youre dealing with a system here which 
responds to a sensory environment, 
responds to an environment of symbolic 
inputs in a very complex and flexible way. 
I dont get any negative effect out of this. 
Tartan:
Tartan: That was a very interesting thing 
you just said, though. Just as it's very 
hard to call yor pet cat it'. It seems like 
you're making an analogy between the 
computer and .. .
Simon: Oh sure. I also use words like the 
computer thinks. Because by any 
definition I'm able to conjure up about 
what human thinking is all about, when I 
see computers doing certain kinds of 
things-problem solving thingsI find it 
reasonable use of the English language to 
say it's thinking. Because its behaving very 
much in the way I'd have to behave if I 
were solving that problem. The fact that 
its made out of glass or wires doesn't 
change the organization of its behavior.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 -i THE TARTAN!^ T-uesdy. Denffoef 4i,;l!)73
Sunday 
Film Series
Started
by Rob Simbeck
A C-MU faculty member is starting a 
Sunday night film series in an attempt to 
earn enough to pay the cost of a film 
course he is teaching.
Assistant Professor of English William J. 
McTaggart says his aim is as inexpensively 
as possible to keep the film program alive 
until there's enough money to revive an 
interest in films and filmmaking. I hope we 
have a department soon to teach students 
how to make movies. The resources and 
possibilities of T.V. and movies are just 
beginning to be tapped. It's an industry 
ready to take off. The time is going to 
come when by necessity we'll have to teach 
this."
The series, like McTaggart'-s course, will 
be a retrospective of American filmmaking, 
beginning on January 13 with Chaplin's 
The Gold Rush, and including Wells 
Citizen Kane. Kubricks Paths of Glory. 
Jewisons The Thomas Crown A ffair, and 
Penns Bonnie and Clyde. The last program 
of the series wjll be a history of Film 
Animation.
The purpose of the course itself. says 
McTaggart, is to educate the students so 
theyre aware of everything that goes into a 
movie, so they're able to make a better 
critical judgement.
McTaggart has had an active interest in 
films for a number of years. He originated 
the S.T.A.G. (Spiro T. Agnew Generation) 
series in 1970-71, using the proceeds from 
that, along with student contributions, io 
subsidize the first Film Art Course.
Opening next semesters course films to 
the campus (theyll be shown in the 
Wherrett Room) was prompted to some 
extent by the financial problems inherent 
in using films within a course. As 
McTaggart explains, The problem is 
threefold: one. because of the great interest 
in movies on all college campuses, the 
people who rent out the movies have raised 
the rates, in some cases to really absurd 
levels; secondly, with the cutbacks in Uni
versity budgeting, teaching aid facilities are 
virtually non-existent, so there are tech
nical problems in showing films in classes; 
and third, again because of the budget, 
there is virtually no money available for 
renting films for classrooms. So 
McTaggart, along with Robert McCurdy, 
Director of Student Affairs, instituted the 
Sunday night film series as a means of 
helping to finance their use in the course, 
while at the same time exposing the 
campus to a number of excellent films.
Concerning the state of films here, he 
said. Im a little disturbed by studentselected movies. For the most part, they 
only show movies they know about, which 
means either that theyre recent, or that 
theyve seen them on T.V. at some time. 
There are many more possibilities. There 
were a lot of films made in the 30s and 
40's that nobody sees any more that were 
fine movies. And we don't seem to have 
much of a showcase for experimental films, 
which is why I originally started S.T.A.G.
If you just feel like talking, drop in or call 
Peer Help. 150A Baker Hall, 687-7414.
Senate Briefs.. ., Election Tie 
Check Cashing Charge Rejected
Photo by Shambian 
Swank, Dean of Student Affairs
ERRA TUM
In last weeks TARTAN, it was 
erroneously stated that Richard Scaife is 
Chairman of the Board of Directors of 
Mellon Bank. He is not. The TARTAN 
regrets this error.
Chairman of Senate, Frank Sacco; the 
Chairman of Rules Committee, the 
Chairman of Finance Committee, the 
Chairman of General Campus Committee, 
the Chairman of Information Committee, 
and the Chairman of Academic Affairs 
Committee. All of these officers are elected 
by Senate itself and could be deposed.
Two other offices, Vice Chairman of 
Senate and Parliamentarian, are vacant 
because the senators who held them last 
semester did not run for reelection. The 
current Treasurer is apparently not 
affected by the motion. /
Senate Rules Committee Chairman Dave 
Meixner said that the motion calling for a 
vote of confidence is indeed legal, and that 
he personally will not vote to retain any of 
the old officers through a vote of con
fidence because he thinks new senators 
should have a chance to nominate and elect 
leaders. He noted that new senators make 
up a majority of Senate.
Another question not yet resolved by 
Senate is the tie between Meixner and 
Sacco for a full term seat. Both received 
enough votes in the recent election to win 
seats on Senate, but one will serve a full 
term while the other will have to run again 
next spring.
The Senate constitution states that ties 
will be broken by a vote of Senate at the 
first meeting after an election. Asked who 
is responsible for bringing the matter to the 
attention of Senate, Meixner said, I think 
I am, but for (Sacco or Meixner himself) to
bring it up ... It looks kind of indelicate, 
like youre greedy. He said he will see that 
the matter is brought to a vote at todays 
meeting.
In other actions last week:
Senate passed a motion recommending 
that the administration avoid imposing a 
charge for check cashing. The motion 
states that if the cashier does impose a 
charge, Senate wants concessions in return: 
a charge that varies with the amount of the 
check, resumption of cashing student pay
roll checks up to S50.00 and a halt to 
further charges until a marketing study is 
made. The motion, offered by MDC 
Senator Stephen O. Lee, is the section of 
the General Campus Committee minutes 
that Senate rejected last week; it passed 
after Dean of Student Affairs Earle Swank 
amended two passages to toughen the 
language.
Senate voted to recognize the C-MU 
Support Committee, the group currently 
circulating petitions supporting the Farm
worker lettuce boycott, as an official stu
dent organization even though no 
representative of the group was present at 
the meeting.
Dc<i l Swank said he would be willing to 
entertain a proposal to reward student 
leaders by revoking part of the financial aid 
work-study requirement. The proposal 
would benefit the Chairmen of Student 
Senate, the Editor-in-Chief of the 
TARTAN, the head of WRCT, and other 
student leaders.
Dear Akadama Mama
Mamas
Love Potions.
Dear Akadama Mama:
Have you any interest in 
Women's Lib?
President, Showgirls Lib,
Las Vegas
Dear Ms. President:
Im more interested in Mamas 
Lib and Mama feels if you do right 
by your Daddy, he'll do right by you.
Now my Daddy, I treat him right.
When he comes dragging home at 
night I fluff up his ego. Slip off his 
shoes. Hand him his pipe. And head 
for the Akadama wine. Forget those 
tooty-fruity wines. Theyre for boys, 
not for my Old Man. So I get out my 
Akadama recipe card and mix him 
one of my love potions. You'd be sur
prised how fine a Saturday can be 
when you start it off with Akadama 
Red and orange juice. And the sec
ond best way I know to end the day 
is with Akadama Red and cham
pagne. So if you want my advice, Ms.
imported by Sun tory International. Los Angeles, California
President, just keep passing that 
Akadama. Take it from Mama. 
FAME & FORTUNATE.
Lately a lot of Akadama fans 
have been sending me their favorite 
recipes. Fortunately there's enough 
roomleft in this week's column to 
pass some of them on 
to you.
Akadama Red and bitter lemon tonic.
Akadama Red with 
apple juice.
Akadama Red with ginger ale.
Akadama Red 
and tonic water.
Akadama Red 
with cream soda.
Akadama Red 
and lemonade.
Listen to Mama, 
and pass the Akadama, the wine 
that tastes a lot more than it costs.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN -/Tuesday, December 4* 1973 - Page 7
Letters:
continued from page 2
political group is not valid. Senate gave no 
reason, and need not give any. Individual 
senators did give their reasons for opposing 
the YSA budget, as I have just given mine. 
My reasons are consistent with my actions 
in Senate meeting and in finance 
committee, and 1 stand by them.
Edward Simon
Editor:
In last weeks TARTAN, Ms. Anne 
Collins states that Student Senate 
PRESUMABLY does not want to get 
involved in politics. This is not the case. 
Student Senate stated unequivocably that 
it does not wish to fund ANY political 
organization. Ms. Collins seems to believe 
that Senate has the right to endorse 
political activities on the behalf of the 
student body. This power is not written 
into the constitution, and therefore cannot 
be assumed by Senate. In addition, I fail to 
understand how Ms. Collins can expect 
Senate to decide what political parties that 
the students of C-MU should support.
I feel that her rhetoric is unjustified and 
unwarranted for the following reasons.
1. The organization was not victimized 
by their (Senates) self imposed 
objectives. Senate never implied in any 
way that it would fund their organization, 
and could not justify doing so, as the 
Senate constitution does not provide for 
political activity.
2. She states that our policies are 
presumably neutral. This Senator, at 
least, will not vote for the funding of any 
group which he feels is political in nature. 
As far as my knowledge extends, a
majority of Senate feels the same way.
3. She states Since no other political 
groups requested funds, a S574 budget 
from this (i.e. socialist) group would seem 
unjustified. This was never stated in 
Senate. The only question pertaining to the 
amount of the funding was whether the 
$574 was justified for an organization that 
has only 8 members on this campus.
I feel that I must point out that Ms. 
Collins has recourse to the student body. 
She may circulate a petition for refer
endum. If this petition manages to obtain 
250 valid C-MU student signatures, the 
entire issue will be forced to a vote of the 
entire student body. If she has enough 
student support, there is no reason why she 
should not receive funding.
With this challenge, 
James D. Johnston
Dear Editor:
Once again, in your newspapers zeal to 
become a weekly New York Times, you 
have opted for sensationalism instead of 
responsible journalism. I am referring to 
your coverage of the Student Senate 
elections.
These elections relied on the basic 
honesty of the students, according to Mr. 
Meixner and he concludes that, in the 
future we will not be able to do so.
I found nothing in your article which 
indicated that there were many election 
violations or that CMU students are to be 
distrusted. The only violations reported 
were comitted by TARTAN staff members.
Is it ethical to commit election 
violations in order to have something to 
report?
Daniel Buis
Museum To Charge Fee
Citing rising costs, the Carnegie 
Museum has announced it will institute a 
voluntary admission charge.
Ending a long tradition of free 
admission to both the Museum of Natural 
History and the Museum of Art, the Board 
of Trustees of Carnegie Institute decided 
on November 15, 1973 that it (has
become) essential that the community 
become more involved with the support of 
(the institute).
In an earlier economy move, the 
museums had closed their exhibits to the 
public on Mondays, 
for adults and $.50 for studentss,
Suggested contributions will be $1.00 
for adults and $.50 for students.
Construction To Begin On 
FA Roof, Doherty Studios
by Sharon Curcio
Within ten days work will begin on 
renovation projects for the College of Fine 
Arts, including work on the roof of the 
Fine Arts Building. But parts of the .reno
vation will have to wait until the end of 
classes, according to the Division of 
Operations.
The start of construction follows a 
period of hasty planning, with the projects 
architectural consultants drawing up the 
specifications in only 36 daysAll involved in the project, who had no 
choice but to accomplish the specifications 
in a short amount of time, did a 
remarkable job, says Director of 
Operations Harry Rowell.
The renovation will include the roof, 
skylight, and basement of the Fine Arts 
Building, the three sublevels of Doherty 
Hall, and specific sections of Margaret 
Morrison Carnegie College. The mainstage 
will be restored, and a dressing room 
building will be built next to the studio 
theatre.
Of the $3^ million Ho be invested in 
renovation, the mainstage alone will con
sume half a million. Contrary to rumors 
that the skylight and stairwells would be 
closed in, Operations revealed that the roof 
and glass panels of the skylight will be 
replaced at the cost of $430,000. The 
practice theatre will receive the adjacent 
dressing room building and an air con
ditioning unit on the practice theatre roof 
will cool the practice theatre as well as the 
Fine Arts Building. The Hewlett Gallery, 
Exhibition Hall and music practice rooms 
will be remodeled with new lighting panels. 
New lighting fixtures and fresh paint will 
be used to prepare the lower levels of 
Doherty Hall for P&S students.
The firms and consultants involved in 
the renovation project are: Decade Archi
tectural Associates, Inc., Carl J. Long & 
Associates, Inc. (electrical engineering), 
and the Lentz Company (mechanical 
engineering). Carl J. Long is a C-MU 
alumnus in electrical engineering.
' Operations had first asked Robert 
Taylor, a professional architect and faculty 
member serving on the campus design
committee, to draw up plans for the 
proposed remodeling of the Fine Arts 
Building. Mr. Taylor refused to submit 
specifications because his firm requires six 
months to do such work. Instead, Mr. 
Taylor agreed to redesign and restore the 
mainstage theatre.
The university had contracted Mr. 
Taylors architectural services for the 
proposed Fine Arts facility behind 
Morewood Gardens before the university 
shelved the building in July of 1972 
because C-MU lacked the funds necessary 
for construction.
Following the cancellation of building 
construction, the Department of Health. 
Education and Welfare (HEW) withdrew a 
$730,000 grant. President Cyert not only 
persuaded HEW to reinstate the grant, but 
also procured $250,000 from the Kresge 
Foundation under the condition that the 
university would submit the contractors 
bids and specifications to HEW by May 15 
and to the Kresge Foundation by July 15. 
Rowell said that the plans and drawings for 
the proposed renovation project were 
executed in 36 days. When Dr. Cyert asked 
Operations to contact contractors on April
11, Operations had within three days 
invited all the contractors necessary to 
submit a bid, Rowell says.
SCHOOL
Midnightstrange mystic hour  when the veil between the frail present and the eternal future grows thin.
Harriet Beecher Stowe
PROBLEMS?
EuroMed may oiler RX via overseas training
For the session starting Fall, 1974, 
Euromed will assist qualified Amer
ican students in gaining admission 
to recognized overseas medical 
schools.
And thats just the beginning.
Since the language barrier constitutes the preponderate difficulty in succeeding at a foreign school, the Euromed program also includes an intensive12 week medical and conversational language course mandatory for all students. Five hours daily. 5 days per week (12-16 weeks) the course is given in the country where the student will attend medical school
In addition. Euromed provides students with a 12 week intensive cultural orientation program, with American students now studying medicine in that particular country serving as counselors
Senior or graduate students currently enrolled in an American university arc eligible to participate in the Euromed profram.
For application and further information, phone toll free. 
(800) 645 1234
or write,
Euromed. Ltd.170 0M Country Road Mineoia N Y. 11501

---------------------------------------------------

Ppge 8  THE TARTAN  Tuesday, December 4. 1973
C-MU 
BOOKSTORE
BEGINS DEC.3
105543. ALL COLOR BOOK OF BUTTERFLIES. By R. Goodden. 101 full color photos, maps & plates. Incredibly beautiful photos and informative text. All species are shown in their natural surroundings with advice for collecting, watching and breeding. Extra value import only $2.98
105551. ALL COLOR BOOK OF INSECTS. ByM. Tweedie. 101 full color photos. The fascinating world of insects in photos, accompanied by a text of expert accounts of each insect's habits and life history. Extra value import only $2.98 
105608. ALL COLOR BOOK OF MUSHROOMS AND FUNGI. By M. Savonius. 104 full color photos. Exotic world of mushrooms and fungi, shapes and colors pinpointed in fantastic enlargements, incl. edible mushrooms with cooking lore, poisonous fungi, toadstools, weird bracket and sinister fungi. 8% x 11 Vi. Extra value import only $2.98
Mushm>msand Fungi
In Mrira iatwiottt*
115832. ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON: A CHILD'S GARDEN OF VERSES. Ulus, by Jesse Willcox Smith. The Beloved Poems of Remembered ChildhoodMY SHADOW, THE LAND OF NOD, etc.--in a lovely gift edition of red simulated leather with simulated gold stamping. Extra special value only $1.00
083264. THE COLLECTED DRAWINGS OF AUBREY BEARDSLEY. Appreciation by Arthur Symons. Ed. by B. Harris. 214 illus. The most unique, comprehensive collection ever pu blished-full of Beardsley's beauty and decadence, sensuality and sin. Incl. ALL MAJOR works and many previously suppressed, complete catalog, informative text and a large section of wicked forgeries. 8% x 11. Extraordinary value. Only $2.98
501910. FOLK MUSIC INSTRUMENTS OF THE WORLD. By A. Buchner. 349 illus., 27 in full color. Huge, handsome volume pictures and explains the musicians, the melodies, the rhythms and scales that have created the traditional music of India, Latin America, Africa, Europe, the Orient, Mexico and USA. Photos, line drawings and reproductions of primitive art, more. 10 x 13%. Pub. at $12.50. Only $5.95 
1 19528. MARSHALL MCLUHAN: FROMCLICHE TO ARCHTYPE. 33 illus. Cliches and archetypes in today's culture and intermedia action, incl. Ionesco's The Bald Soprano, many of Shakespeares plays. Paradise Lost, I Ching, much more. Pub. at S7.50. Only $1.00 
119153. LEONARD BERNSTEIN'S YOUNG PEOPLE'S CONCERTS. 95 Illus. Clear explanations for everyone of humor in music, intervals, folk music, what is orchestration, classical music, much more. All ages. Pub. at $7.95. Only $3.95 
117282. THE NEW WORLD ENCYCLOPEDIA OF COOKING. Ed. by staff of Culinary Arts Institute. Over 1250 illus., incl. 16 full color plates. Superb dishes to titillate your taste buds: Crepes in cheesh sauce, eggplant with shrimp stuffing, meltaway whipped cream cake, hundreds more in a massive volume of recipes, hints, charts, etc. IV/2 x 9. 2% thick. Reduced to only $7.95
117312. EUGENE FIELD'S POEMS FOR CHILDREN. Illus. The special love of children pervades the duel (Gingham Dog & Calico Cat); Sugar Plum Tree; Wynken, Blynken, and Nod; 115 more favorites of young and old. Simulated red leather binding with simulated gold stamping. Extra special value only $1.00
j CHIL
118750. THE SONG OF SOLOMON. 57 beautiful full color illus. The ageless testament of love, with its powerful, sensual imagery, presented with superbly evocative watercolors and the wonderful words, in a lovely volume to give or cherish forever. Pub. at $3.95. Only $1.98 
119811. AFFECTION. Three humorous and affectionate books for you and yours. PLEASE TAKE CARE OF YOURSELF (YOU BELONG TO ME). MY DIARY-OR-WHAT I DO WHEN I'M NOT WITH YOU. THERE MAY BE OTHER FISH IN THE SEA . . . BUT YOU'RE THE ONLY ONE FOR ME. Pub. at $3.00. All 3 volumes only $1.00
11982X. LOVE AND FRIENDSHIP. Beautiful thoughts to help you express your deep-down feelings for those you care for. IT'S A WONDERFUL WORLD... WHEN YOU'RE IN LOVE. KNOW WHAT'S NICE ABOUT YOU? EVERY THING! WISHFUL THINKING. Pub. at $3.00. All 3 volumes only $1.00
119838. SENTIMENTAL THOUGHTS. Three little books to liven your day and that of the ones you love. LIVE EACH DAY TO THE FULLEST. SOMETHING TELLS ME I MISS YOU. YOU ARE ONE OF MY FAVORITE PEOPLE. Pub. at $3.00. All 3 volumes only $1.00
119773. THE BIG JUMBO TEDDY BEAR'S FUN BOOK: A TREASURE HOUR STORY FUN BOOK. Hundreds of illus. in full color and monochrome. Stories old and new, puzzles, pages to color-hours of entertainment for children in 192 pages of every kind of fun. Ages 4-10. Special only $1.49
119196. TRUST ME WITH YOUR HEART AGAIN: A FIRESIDE TREASURY OF TURNOF-THE-CENTURY SHEET MUSIC. By N.Stillman. Illus. with sheet music covers for 56 nostalgic and romantic songs you'll never want to forget: Jennie Lee, Trust Me With Your Heart, Absence Makes The Heart Grow Fonder, more. 9 x 12. Pub. at $9.95. Only $5.95 
120690. APPRECIATION OF ART: THEVISUAL DIALOGUE. By N. Knobler. 365 high quality reproductions, many in full color. Introduction to painting, drawing, sculpture, and architecture of all ages, creating a basis for heightened personal esthetic appreciation via tips on color theory, composition, media, etc. Deluxe Buckram binding. 8% x 11%. Pub. at $13.95. Only $3.95
120712. CONTEMPORARY FILM & THE NEW GENERATION. Ed. by L.M. Savary & J.P. Carrico. 57 photos. The films that have moved and influenced America's youth: Bonnie and Clyde, M-A-S-H, Alice's Restaurant, Easy Rider, many more. Softbound. Pub. at $2.95. Only $1.00
120739. LOVE & HATE IN AMERICA TODAY.Ed. by L.M. Savary. 83 photos. Struggles between races, sexes, classes, as seen in the writings of Hitler, Stokely Carmichael, Betty Friedan, others. Softbound. Pub. at $2.95. Only $1.00
120747. TOUCH WITH LOVE. Ed. by L.M. Savary. 76 photos. New ways to reach out to the universe, in photos and quotes from R.D. Laing, William C. Schtz, Martin Buber, Carl Jung, more. Softbound. Pub. at $2.95. Only $1.00 
105535. ALL COLOR BOOK OF RACING CARS. By B. King. 104 full color photos. All the daredevil thrills, all the romance of glamorous racing personalities captured in action pictures, 3 1/3 H.P. Daimler-engine model to today's Lotus Mark 56 that's been clocked at almost 170 M.P.H. Extra value import only $2.98 
105144. THE DAWN OF CIVILIZATION. FIRST SURVEY OF HUMAN CULTURES IN EARLY TIMES. Ed. by Prof. S. Piggott. Nearly 1000 illus., 172 full color, incl. 110 original reconstructions, 645 photos & drawings, 48 maps & chronological charts. Stupendous volume packed with the saga of man's emergence from the cave to civilized being: stone age primitives, ancient Egyptians and their God-Kings, Mideast tribes of biblical times, Chinese of fabled Dynasties, Incas of Peru and other early Americans, etc. Magnificently produced book-- every page a feast for the eye. 1014 x 13%. Pub. at $28.50. Only $14.95
5 THE DAWN OF 
2 CIVILIZATION
NORMAN RCK kWllt
M H11KATC*
115417. ADVENTURE IN THE MOVIES. By I.Cameron. Over 400 illus., many in color. Swashbuckling swordfights, final shootouts-scores of eye-popping action scenes from actual films plus inside glimpses at fantastic sets in exotic locations, glamorous performers, etc.--Flynn, Fairbanks (Jr. & Sr.), Power, they're all there. Extra value import only $4.95 
120593. BACKGAMMON: ITS HISTORY & PRACTICE. Illus. delightfully worded, delicately sketched, delicious little book on a pastime now in revival, technical how-to flavored by whimsies of the past and double-entendre cartoons like "Single man may be taken." Only $1.00 
115425. GODS & GODDESSES OF THE MOVIES. By J. Kobal. Over 400 illus., many in color. The glamourous stars who make the movies what they are-the sometimes foolish, extravagant, I ive-today-for-tomorrow-we-die beautiful people-all in a magnificent comprehensive book on doings on and off the screen of Gable, Garbo, Monroe, Dietrich, lots more. Extra value import only $4.95
114569. LOOK! I CAN SEW. By A Burdick. Full color illus. throughout. Easy step-by-step instructions lead the beginner into the fascinating world of sewing, tie-dying, batik, more. 9% x 12%. Extra value import only $2.98
105748. THE LOVE OF HORSES. By A.Alcock. 150 full color photos. Magnificent volume of exhibition and competition horses, 
rodeo stars and horse show jumpers, etc. -a complete picture-guide to splendid steeds from Russia, Germany, Arabia, all over the world. 9% x 12%. Extra value import only $4.95
L 0 3 8 1 7 . NORMAN ROCKWELL ILLUSTRATOR. By Arthur L. Guptill. Preface by Dorothy Canfield Fisher. 437 illus., 43 in full color. Beautiful, best-selling volume which shows the works of Americas most beloved artist and offers a pictorial panorama of a growing and changing America. Thirty years of Saturday Evening Post covers, hundreds of anecdotes, all of Rockwell's most famous works and special illustrations done just for this book. 9x12. Pub. at $17.50. Only $7.95
120720. GETTING HIGH NATURALLY. Ed. byL.M. Savary. 75 photos. The beauty of these words and photos is enough to make you high; Alan Watts, Thoreau, Timothy Leary, many others. Softbound. Pub. at $2.95. Only $1.00
11996X. THE BIG COFFEE COOKBOOK. By G.Parke. Add a new dimension to your cooking with this collection of coffee recipes for Chicken Livers Madeira, Frozen Coffee Mousee, "Coffeecakes Around The World/' more. Pub. at $9.95. Only $3.95
507463. THE PENNSYLVANIA RAILROAD: ON THE MAIN LINE. By E. P. Alexander. 367 photos, maps, prints. Nostalgic pictorial record of America's greatest railroad in the 19th century, what travel on the line was like, sights along the way, manner and mores of the times, much more. Index. 9 x 12. Orig. pub. at $15.00. New, complete ed. only $5.95
105233. AMERICAN HERITAGE PICTURE HISTORY OF WORLD WAR II. By C.L. Sulzberger. 720 illus., 92 in full color. The largest, most inclusive single-volume history of the war ever published! The full drama and tragedy of the mightiest conflict of all time, revealed in hundreds of great pictures (many never before published) and a superb, 150,000-word narrative by the Pulitzer Prizewinning journalist. 610 pages. 9 x 11%. Pub. at $20.00. Only $9.95
114542. KIDS' COOKBOOK: LOOK! I CAN COOK - STEP-BY-STEP RECIPES FROM AROUND THE WORLD. By A. Burdick. Full color illus. throughout. Delightful easy-to-follow recipes for young people starting from the beginning (scrambled eggs) and building to a stupendous lemon meringue pie. Also meat balls in cabbage leaves, fried bananas, more. 9% x 12%. Pub. at $3.95. Only $2.98
108119. EARTH BASKETRY. By Osma Gallinger Tod. 74 illus. thorough manual for weaving all types of baskets, mats, bird houses, novelties, etc. from native American materials like reed, bark, cat-tails, etc. Special only $2.49
ARTH BflSKCTRV
mm

---------------------------------------------------

i. lsdm-ivX! .vsb&iiT MATHAT 3HT  vjtf nTHE TARTANTuesday, December 4, 1973 - Page 9
11058X. SEWING FOR THE HOME. By M.B. Picken. Hundreds of illus., 16 in full color. Comprehensive, incredibly detailed manual on every phase of making draperies, bedspreads, furniture coverings, etc., showing you how to be your own decorator, incl. every furniture style, matching plaids and patterns, finishing, etc. 8% x 10%. Orig. pub. at $7.95. New, complete ed. only $3.95
Sewing Sor the Home
!*: *-'*   aa n '  mis  tj;:- H 5-V 3"* 
092476. THE WORLD OF CATS. By John Montgomery. 225 superb photos of cats and kittens, 44 in brilliant color. All breeds of cats are presented in wonderful text, anecdotes and delightful pictures for all who admire feline beauty and are fascinated by their mystery. With advice on how to raise a healthy cat. 8% x 11%. $9.95 value. Only $3.95
119587. MODERN GEOMETRIC DESIGNS. ByA. Lorch. 0ver-100 full color illus. A must for all who like to design: over 100 design ideas with nine pages on formulative construction of geometric designs. 8% x 11%. Pub. at $5.95. Only $2.98
N00922. SONNETS OF SHAKESPEARE. Introd. by R.O. Ballou, with the famous Temple Notes. Illus. all 154 of the greatest sonnets ever written, collected and bound in beautiful brown simulated leather with gold stamping. Extra special value only $1.00
11321X. TREASURY OF AESOP'S FABLES. 68treasured fables with illus. By Thomas Bewick and The Life of Aesop by Oliver Goldsmith. Bound in brown simulated leather with simulated gold stamping. Extra special value only $1.00
118076. THROUGH THE LOOKING GLASS AND WHAT ALICE FOUND THERE. By Lewis Carroll. With the original Tenniel drawings. The companion volume to ALICE'S ADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND, a treasure to own or give. Brown simulated leather binding with simulated gold stamping. Extra special value only $1.00
I
Thewx
CTSj

4 Ev
iyk *^ V -t* <
by John '<
N03336. COLOR TREASURY OF CATS AND KITTENS. By A. Torregrossa. Lavishly illus. with photos, drawings, paintings incl. over 180 cats in beautiful full color. The most exceptional value of any cat book ever published - gorgeous photos, history, habits. Etc. 9x12. Extra value import only $1.98
K07680. KITTENS AND CATS IN COLOUR.120 superb, full color photos in this large album (9% x 13) capture all engaging qualities from wide-eyed innocence to sleek, lithe grace. A book that all cat lovers will treasure. Import special, only $4.95
N0975X. ART NOUVEAU. By R. Schmutzier. 451 illus., 12 in full color. The definitive, internationally acclaimed history pf art nouveau embraces painting, graphics, architecture, sculpture, interior decoration, furniture and textiles - all displayed here in beautiful examples of the work of William Morris, Tiffany, Beardsley, Rossetti, and even Gauguin and Rodin. 9% x 12. Pub. at $25.00. Only $12.95
004461. PAUL KLEE. By W. Grohmann. 430 illus., plus 40 hand-tipped, full-page, full color plates. The life and work of one of the most inventive geniuses of modern art; his humor and insight are still an important influence in art and design today. Complete illustrated catalog of Klee's work included. Orig. pub. at $25.00. Only $15.95
M01134. COLLECTOR'S ITEM: ALICE'SADVENTURES IN WONDERLAND. Read and sung by the inimitable Cyril Ritchard, original music score by Alec Wilder, played by'The New York Woodwind Quartet - the Lewis Carroll classic complete on Four 12" LP Records in deluxe full-color illustrated gift box, plus a facsimile volume of the rare 1865 first edition of the book! Illustrated by John Tenniel. Orig. Pub. at $25.00. Only $6.95
114151. HANDCRAFTS MADE EASY. By Fran Westfall. Over 300 illus., 54 full color. Detailed instructions on how to knit, smock, tat, crochet, weave, hand sew, embroider, make tapestry rugs, and needlework. 8% x 11%. Orig. pub. at $6.50. New, complete ed. only $3.95 
118653. BUYING COUNTRY PROPERTYPITFALLS AND PLEASURES. By I. Price. Illus. Expert advice on mortgages, zoning, utilities, building, etc., for everything from a weekend Shangri-La to a working farm. Pub. at $5.95. Only $1.98
K06579. BLOCK AND SILK SCREEN PRINTING. By G. Ahlberg & C. Jarneryd. Illus. with photos, drawings & designs. Clear and concise instructions in all the block and silk printing hobby techniques including stencils with suggestions for designs. Orig. pub. at $3.95. New, complete ed. only $1.98
L06484. KNITTING DICTIONARY. 800 illus., 68 in full color. Contains 800 stitches, patterns and knitting -techniques all alphabetically arranged with a clear picture and explanatory text. Hardbound. Only $3.95 
104571. THE JOY OF HANDWEAVING. 2nd dition. By O. G. Tod. 166 illus., 11 in full color. Complete treatment of handweaving: equipment, methods, patterns and designs, colors, borders, threads, etc., incl. full information on the newest synthetic yarns. Orig. pub. at $7.95. New, complete ed. only $3.95
L0077X. CLAES OLDENBURG-DRAWINGS AND PRINTS. Intro, by G. Baro. Profusely illus. definitive volume with the great sculptor's drawings, more than-100 in black & white and 20 in full color, covering early impressionistic studies, landscapes, drawings from the Street & Store period. Home and Airflow, and the "Monument" drawings. 9% x 12/*. Pub. at $25.00. Only $9.95
Cfacs Oldenburg
N07234. PAUL KLEE. By N. Ponente. 54 fine hand-tipped reproductions in full color. Klee's world, full of delight and symbolism, revealed in his paintings and in sparkling text. Orig. pub. at $8.95. New, complete ed. only $3.95 
00139X. SCULPTURE INSIDE AND OUT. By Malvina Hoffman. 270 illus. The standard book on the art of sculpture, as history as well as a presentation of methods and techniques; practical suggestions for modeling, carving and the treatment of materials. Pub. at $8.50 Only $3.95
119986. A FEAST OF FLOWERS: A COOKBOOK FOR TODAY. By F. Tillona & C. Strowbridge. Flower power through the ages-- Eggnog a la Rose, Flower Butter, flower remedies and cosmetics, more. Orig. pub. at $6.95. New complete ed. only $1.98
020173. THE FIX-IT BOOK. By A. Symons. Profusely illus. with drawings and clear instructions for electrical, plumbing, and heating repairs, car care, gardening, painting and other house maintenance. Pub. at $2.50. Only $1.00 
114747. THE START OF LOVE. By L.Wyse. 12 beautiful photos of couples and women alone with simple yet penetrating poems of beginning love. 6% x 7%. Pub. at $3.00. Only $1.00 
114763. YOU ARE THE LOVE I WANT. ... By L. Wyse. 12 photos. A tiny book of words and photos for expressing your love. 6% x 7%. Pub. at $3.00. Only $1.00
114720. ONE AND ONE MAKE LOVE. By L.Wyse. 12 photos and poems expressing the most cherished moments of love. 6% x 7%. Pub. at $3.00. Only $1.00
114658. COME LIVE WITH ME. By L. Wyse. These 12 poems and photos express what we all feel sometime in our lives. 6% x 7%. Pub. at $3.00. Only $1.00
114690. I WILL WAIT FOR YOU. By L. Wyse. Sensitive collection of 12 photos and poems to share with those you love most. 6% x 7%. Pub. at $3.00. Only $1.00
118165. BEAUTIFUL COOKING: THE FOUR SEASONS COOKBOOK. By Charlotte Adams. Special consultant, James Beard. 104 extraordinary full color photos. Gourmet delicacies from one of the world's great restaurants: The Four Seasons' recipes for Saddle of Veal Orloff, Cassoulet de Toulouse, Avocado Shrimp Louis, Zabaglione with Amaretti, etc., arranged in seasonal groups on colored paper in a cookbook that is itself a work of art. 8/2 x 12. Pub. at $25.00. Only $12.95
L06476. POPULAR ITALIAN COOKERY. ByM. Howells. 32 Gorgeous photos in full color. Over 100 mouth-watering, easy-to-follow recipes for the best Italian dishes: Lasagne al Forno, Zuppa Pavese, the extraordinary dessert Zabaglione, etc. Extra value import only $2.98
119765. SELECTIONS FROM HENRY DAVID ITHOREAU'S WALDEN. Ed., with an intro., by P. Horan. The most fascinating and poetic sections of this particularly timely classic. Illus. by Thomas Bewick, in a brown simulated leather binding with simulated gdld stamping. Extra ' special value only $1.00
N00965. WALT WHITMAN'S LEAVES OF GRASS. Inrod. by W. Lowenfels. Illus. The finest parts of the great American poet's vibrant hymn to life, in an exquisite edition with brown simulated leather binding and gold stamping. Extra special value only $1.00
irrt ltcmi from
LEAVES
OF
tarr
BY
WALT
Decmbr4
N07226. BOSCH. By R.L. Delevoy. 54 handtipped plates all in brilliant full color. Extraordinary reproductions of Bosch's fantastic haunting paintings, plus biographic and critical commentary. Orig. pub. at $8.95. New, complete ed. only $3.95
N07854. LAUTREC. By J. Lassaigne. 49 stunning full color hand-tipped plates. The brutal clarity of Lautrec's vision of Parisian night-life displayed in a stunning volume on his art and life. Orig. pub. at $8.95. New complete ed. only $3.95
N07242. CHAGALL. By L. Venturi. 53 handtipped plates all in delightful full color. Flying horses and a fiddler on the the roof-- warm, entrancing paintings by the beloved artist, with the story of his life. Orig. pub. at $8.95. New, complete ed. only $3.95
N07250. REMBRANDT. By O. Benesch. 56 superb hand-tipped full color plates. The pinnacle of the Dutch Renaissance - luminous paintings by a great master of world art, plus biography and critical commentary. Orig. pub. at $8.95. New, complete ed. only $3.95
Will one''
004399. KANDINSKY. By W. Grohmann. 920 illus., 41 hand-tipped, full-page, full color plates. ..The most extensive presentation of the work of this great pioneer of abstract art. Every oil painting is reproduced, plus many drawings, sketches, and prints. The text traces Kandinsky's career, offers insights into his personality, and includes a complete illus. catalog of his work. 428 pages. 8% x 11%. Orig. pub. at $25.00. New, complete ed. only $14.95
019574. MASTERPIECES OF THE LOUVRE.By Marcel Brion. 130 illus., including 68 handtipped plates in full color. Detailed descriptions of outstanding works of art with a history of the Louvre and its collection. 10/2 x 12%. Pub. at $30.00. New, revised ed. only $14.95
084074. MUSHROOM COOKERY. By R. Reitz. How to cook, can, freeze and hunt this delicacy. In addition to the traditional mushroom dishes there are many dazzling surprises like: Flaming Mushrooms, Muffins, Quenelles, etc. Orig. pub. at $4.95. New, complete ed. only $1.49
L08983. THE JOY OF EATING NATURAL FOODS: THE COMPLETE ORGANIC COOK BOOK. New approach to good eating for healthconscious Americans incl. more than 2,000 recipes for garden-fresh vegetables, luscious home-baked breads, raw food menus, etc. Pub. at $6.50. Only $1.98
902699. GLENN MILLER ON THE AIR, VOL. III. Vocals byTex Beneke, Marion Hutton, Ray Eberle, The Modernaires. From The Beer Barrel Polka to The Moonlight Serenade, including the haunting "Showboat Medley." Pub. at $4.98. Only $1.98
S47763. ORIGINAL VOICE TRACKS PLUS POSTER: THE MARX BROTHERS. Three of the funniest men who ever lived - the inimitable Groucho, Chico and Harpo - in rioutous, zany passages from the sound tracks of their most hilarious films. With 17 x 23 poster. Pub. at $5.9& Only $1.98
918919. THOSE SWINGIN' DAYS OF THE BIG BANDS! A memory lane treasury with Benny Goodman's Let's Dance, Duke Ellington's Satin Doll, Artie Shaw's Begin the Beguine, Guy Lombardo's Auld Lang Syne, Stan Kenton, Bunny Berigan, 30 more. Pub. at $14.98. 3 Record set complete only $5.95 .
544217. COMPLETE: ORSON WELLES' "WAR OF THE WORLDS" BROADCAST. Actual broadcast by Orson Welles & The Mercury Theatre on the air as heard over CBS, Oct. 30, 1938, of the famed H.G. Wells story of invasion from Mars, which caused nation-wide mass hysteria. 2 Record set complete only $4.98

---------------------------------------------------

PaeeTHE TARTAN
T */^T!AT 3H1
Tuesday, December 4, 1973
Its thelm-sorry but 
all-the -seats-are-taken
If you are planning on going home or 
coming back during the Christmas recessby air you ought to be aware of a 259'< 
flight cutback n most airlines due to the 
fuel shortages. Airlines are advising 
students, who have not already made reser
vations. to get on a waiting list.
One month ago United cut 25 flights. It 
has since allotted extra planes for the 
holiday season, but warns there is no , 
space southbound, for New York, or west
bound after December 17th.
Eastern Airlines, reports that their flights 
are also heavily booked: although the New -j 
York and Boston Air Shuttles are operating 
as usual without reservations from 
Washington to LaGuardia and LaGuardia 
to Boston. And according to Northwest 
Orient, who has made no cutbacks.
Washington. D.C. poses no particular pro
blem. Traveling prior to December 13th is 
being encouraged. After that date 
Alleghenys main flights to Boston. N.Y., 
Philadelphia, and Hartford are booked with 
few vacancies though flights to Baltimore 
and Chicago look good.
American is still accepting reservations. 
TWA now on strike is accepting reser
vations for Dec. 8th on but advises 
passengers to book an alternate flight. A 
settlement is still in progress.
The return trip compounds the 
Christmas rush. Northwest is already 
closed on major flights. By January 9th 
United will lay off approximately 1.000 
people and cutback 100 flights. The only 
advice to students is call immediately.
Greyhound is in' business as usual.
Where Are All The Bikeways?
Youve probably heard a lot about todays bic\cle boom and the many advantages bicycling offers. It is clean, quiet, inexpensive, energy-efficient, healthful  and fun. You might say the bicycle is one of the worlds greatest inventions!However, there is one big, sobering drawback: Bicycling in NorthAmerica today simply isnt safe! An estimated 900 bicycle riders will be killed and more than 40,000 injured in bikc-auto accidents this year alone in the United States. Most of these accidents could be avoided with adequate bikeways  separate pathways just for bicycles and safe routes in conjunction with roads.But: Where are the bikeways? This country's 80 million cyclists have only 16,000 miles of bikeways, or about13 inches for each hike rider! Compare that with the 3 million miles of paved roads available to 90 million motorists. And most of the existing bikeways are far from ideal. Instead of protective curbing to separate bikes from autos, you usually find just white lines or signs along the road's edge, which do little more than lull both cyclists and motorists into a false sense of security.
We can help bring about needed changes that will benefit everyone.
Bike rider or not, if you are interested in a safer, more sensible transportation system, please send us a contribution of $5 or more. You can also help by writing your local, state and federal representatives, asking them what they are doing to support bicycling and public transporta
tion facilities.
KEN KOLSBUN. Executive Director
Friends For Bikecology 1035 E. Dc La Guerra St. Santa Barbara, Ca. 93103
1 am enclosing my contribution of $5 or more 
to help Friends For Bikecology in their en
deavor to obtain sound transportation including 
more and safer bikeways.
Amount enclosed $____________
Name_
Address
Citv................ ..Stati'ZipI Inake check payable tn Friends For Bikecology |
ENGINEERING AIDES
(STUDENTS)
SEVERAL POSITIONS - LOCAL
FULL AND PART-TIME
$ 7,500 + FREE TUITION
excellent chance for engineering student
any disciplinework with 23 professional engineers - all benefits-WM. DEE PERSONNEL
2327 Murray Avenue 521-4650 Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217
Calendar Pressured To Drop 
GaysAnd Church Goers
continued from page 1
I didnt think the campus calendar 
reflected the true intellectual quality of the 
campus. What it did reflect was a dead 
campus, Dr. Simon told the TARTAN. 
Asked if he objected to religious and Gay 
liberation announcements, Dr. Simon 
replied, I am more concerned with what 
isnt in there rather than what is.
This fall, in response to suggestions 
from people both within and outside of 
Public Relations office, Ms. Hobbs tried 
out a new format. Instead of listing events 
by day, as had been done before, she listed 
them by subject: sports, lectures, concerts, 
films.
But about 15 to 20 students complained 
about the new format, claiming it was hard 
to find things that were going on.
Dr. Simon had also been talking to 
President Cyert. Cyert agreed with Simon 
about the Calendar not reflecting a true 
intellectual picture of C-MU.
So Dr. Cyert called Ms. Hobbs person
ally and congratulated her on the change. 
She recalls, I told him that I wasnt real 
crazy about it and was going to change 
back. Dr. Cyert told her, she explains, 
that he didnt want the church listings or 
Gay liberation announcements in the 
calendar, saying that he didnt feel there
was a need for them on the C-MU campus. 
Ms. Hobbs says she replied, I was an 
undergraduate here and I know we have 
more than a handful of gays and people 
who are interested in going to Church.
Ms. Hobbs resumed organizing the 
calendar by date.
Under next semesters system, 
announcements that remain the same week 
after week will move to the bulletin board 
in Skibo. But the churches and Gays and 
other organization will still appear on the 
calendar occasionally, when they have a 
one-time announcement to make, such as 
the name of a guest pastor or the admission 
fee to a fund-raising Gay Cabaret.
Most of the pressure to change the 
calendar came at the beginning of the 
year, says Ms. Hobbs. I couldnt believe 
this was all happening... I had been 
making up the calendar for two years 
without anybody saying anything and then 
suddenly I got a call from the president.
I tend to think a lot of older people, 
when approached by someone with a lot of 
power, tend to give in for just that 
reason. I had a good time talking to him 
publications is my business... I didnt 
intend to give in just because he was the 
president.
PEACE ON EARTH 
GOOD WILL TO ALL MEN
This Christmas dont just say the words . . . live them!
Your donation to CARE will provide nourishing food to hungry children in Asia, Africa and Latin America. Millions of these kids wont be dreaming of toys or candy this holiday season; theyll be dreaming of food. Now, through CARE, you can feed these victims of hunger.
You, your club, class or church group can send a donation in any amount, and CAREs American staff around the world will supervise food deliveries to insure that those in need receive aid.Heres what a donation from you will mean:
$ 2 gives 600 children a bowl of nourishing porridge.$ 5 gives 5 homeless kids a daily meal for 3 months.$ 10 gives 900 youngsters a nutritious lunch.$100 delivers over one ton of food to a needy area.
What better way to give thanks for all your blessings than by sending lifegiving food to those who are hungry?
CAREKaufmanns, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219
Here is my $________________
Name______________________
Address
Your check, made payable to CARE, is tax deductible.
City.
StateZip.
J

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN Tuesday, December 4, 1973 - Page 11
Computer Humanities '74
by Michael Scott Baum
*Artificial Intelligence has found in
creasing application in the Humanities and 
Social Sciences. First publicized through its 
use in electronic music synthesizers and 
automated chess games, as well as through 
its strictly statistical uses, the computer has 
been introduced into a number of areas 
previously thought to be beyond its reach.
^ In the psychology department, Pro
fessor Herbert A. Simon describes the 
computers application in the Simulation 
of Cognitive Processes. Simon stated, 
Human bein^ s solve problems by moving 
around symbols in their head. We feel that 
computers can be programmed to do the 
same; then you can see the assumptions of 
what people think . . . you can build up a 
. theory about its use. Many feel that
* computers in psychology have proved to be 
an excellent teaching aid as well as in
dispensable in research.
Professor Tom Trump of the Depart
ment of Design has found computers to be 
an excellent tool in Visual Pattern 
Generation. This involves computer 
analysis of colors, shapes and quantities of 
forms to produce data on the possible
 alternative designs or color usages given 
certain limitations. Trump believes the
computer increases creative capacity rather 
than diminishing itIf an artist or photo
grapher is offered color' as a suppliment to 
black and white, would that not be a new 
creative tool?
In the summer of 1972, Professors 
Jan Cohen and Peggy Knapp of the English 
department, and Professor William Cohen 
of History attended ai computer course at the 
Institute of Humanistic Computation, 
University of Kansas. On returning to 
CMU, the desirability of courses in 
Humanistic Computation became 
apparent to them particularly in light of 
CMUs great computer resources.
President Richard Cyert provided his en
couragement for innovation here and 
suggested the appointment of GSIA 
graduate student Herbert Edilstein to 
develop a curriculum involving computer 
usage in the humanities. Subsequently, the 
English department developed a new 
course entitled, The Computer in Literary 
and Linguistic Studies which is an intro
duction to solving problems in language 
and literature using the computer as a tool 
(involving) class discussion of problems 
amenable to investigation and analysis 
through computers, introduction to the 
formulation of problems, and some con
Cruise on up to Reich Franks 
all new TOP DECK and move 
out in clothes designed for the 
guy with Cruisin to Do ... 
in baggies ... baseball shirts 
. . . bowties . . . and belts. . . . 
Its the one place that puts it 
all together for you.
ALEX
REICHARANK
Y
sideration of the nature of the tool and 
how to use it.
Professor A. Michael Sulman of the 
history department is offering a course en
titled, The Computer In Historical 
Scholarship and Teaching. The course 
description states that it  . . . will 
introduce students to the methods and 
techniques of research which are distinctly 
associated with the computer. Professor 
Sulman sets the goals of the course as the 
study, through selected readings, of what 
has been accomplished by quantitative 
historical research, and the accomplish
ment of quantitative historical research 
applying The Statistical Package For Social 
Science system of electronic data pro
cessing systems, and the CMU computation 
centers IBM 360.
Opinions concerning the use and 
desirability of computers vary. The 
humanists contacted voice greater reser
vations about the use of computers than 
did the social scientists. Stated Dr. Cohen 
(Jan), The role of the humanities as a 
carrier of western tradition ... at its best it 
is a vehicle for keeping the past before our 
eyes and constantly maintaining a criticism 
of contemporary culture.
Janitor 
Shortage
continued from page 1
because it would add a cost for a service 
that has often been taken for granted.
McCurdy added, Students are more 
concerned about the cleanliness in Skibo 
than in the classrooms usually, because 
they are sponsoring events which are 
special to them. There is a different 
standard than the expectations for the 
daily classroom.
While these plans are in the investiga
tory stages, the committee is studying a 
routine work list from day to day pro
cedures. For two weeks they will check in 
the various locations how the work is per
formed and how the schedule is being 
followed. At the conclusion of this two 
week period, they will evaluate what has 
been done and what areas are being 
neglected.
We sort of declared a moratorium, 
says McCurdy. Schedulings of activities on 
weekends is temporarily restricted on a 
case-by-case basis for second semester until 
the problem can be resolved. If a group 
wants to schedule an activity, they must 
ask Bob McCurdy or Sue Christian to see if 
it is feasible to use the building.McCurdy revealed that it was never 
taken into consideration that the 
renovation of Skibo would require more 
work from the custodial staff. The car
peting takes longer to clean, and the lobby 
is a public place that many spectators visit. 
Its condition makes a strong impression.
We of the TARTAN would like to wish all our readers luck on 
their final examinations and a very enjoyable holiday vacation.
Arby's is
open for
breakfast.
And Arbys will buy the coffee when you try their new 
Breakfast on a Bun. It's Arbys Scrambler...fluffy 
scrambled eggs garnished with red-ripe tomato 
on a toasted sesame seed bun.
with
country-fresh QAi 
sausage patty O#
with
sugar-cured
ham99*
New Breakfast Hours
7"10"Monday thru Saturday
Serving Arbys Scrambler and other breakfast treats!Arby's
COUPON.COUPON^UPON.COUPON.COUPON
' .W.W.VAV.V.V../NfflRm.mv.v.v.v.v> : ; ::::
Wmmm
Arby's
,1r9m
733V
olDlol.V.V.V.V.V
y/XvXvpp
y.y.y. v v v.\v.y.v\y.y.w.vv ,.\y.,,,y,.v* y.yX;!^
Forbes St. OAKLANDSixth & Wood, oDOWNTOWNCOUPON.COUPON.COUPON.COUPON.COUPON

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12  THE TARTAN  Tuesday. December 4, 1973
University Goals Cited
- Dr. Richard M. Cvert
We hare gone through a period of 
planning in which each college and depart
ment developed strategies for progress. As I 
indicated at the beginning of this process. 
ue need to specify our academic goals for 
the purpose of focusing of our actions and 
as a guide to the allocation of resources 
within the University. No organization can 
function effectively without agreement on 
the goals it wishes to achieve. This doc
ument is a draft subject to revisions as 
explained below, that attempts to fulfill 
this need for the next year or two.
Carnegie-Mellon University is and 
should remain a relatively small university 
of high quality. This makes tor flexibility 
and interaction and therefore for contin
uing relevance as well as excellence in a 
constantly changing world. And our com
bination of colleges gives us a unique blend 
of various faculty talents that have been 
and should continue to interact with each 
other on cross-college and interdisciplinary 
programs that we are especially qualified to 
develop.
It is clear from the history of this 
university and from the discussions we 
have had during the planning period that 
we must remain steadfastly devoted to the 
goal of professional education in a variety 
of fields. The concept of professional eduaction has become a recognized character
istic of this institution, and is a unifying 
force for the diverse academic activities in 
existence on the campus.
This education will be at both the 
undergraduate and graduate levels and 
within the constraints of CMU remaining a 
private university. I have given the argu
ments in my inaugural address for this po
sition. Further, the university will remain 
committed to maintaining a student body 
that represents a cross-section of our so
ciety with respect to income, racial 
characteristics, and sex.
We must renew our resolve to make the 
education at all levels the very best that we 
as professionals in our areas can provide. In 
particular it is vital for the survival of this 
university that the undergraduate educa
tion at CMU be excellent. The education 
that we give undergraduates must be of the 
quality that justifies the tuition gap be
tween ourselves and public institutions. We 
are dependent on our tuition for one-half 
of our E&GO budget, and the bulk of this 
tuition comes from undergraduates. We 
must be the kind of university that uses 
our best people to teach Undergraduates as 
well as graduates. Without an adequate stu
dent body this university would become an 
entirely different organization. 1 would like 
to see us enhance our already good reputa
tion as a fine undergraduate teaching insti
tution and at the same time improve 
further our reputation as a great research 
university.
Constraints of Goal Setting
The process of developing goals requires 
that all the participants in the academic 
process think and discuss the goal structure 
with a view towards developing some in
formal consensus and understanding of the 
goals. My statement in this document is 
made because it is vital to get the process 
started, and 1 have the responsibility to 
take the first step. Like all first attempts, 
this document will undoubtedly suffer 
from a lack of specificity, the inadvertent 
exclusion of some important areas, an in
correct preception or understanding of 
some departments or disciplines, and, 1 am 
sure, other deficiencies. These deficiencies 
are the reasons why we must have discus
sions among all of us on the document 
with a view toward further improvement, 
and I ask the Faculty Senate to take the 
leadership in developing such discussions 
on the campus. 1 am also asking the Board 
of Trustees to discuss the issues raised by 
this document.
In setting goals, some disciplines and 
programs will receive more emphasis than 
others. We all should recognize that the 
University does not have the resources to 
make ourselves the top unit in every single 
area of endeavor. It is also clear that every 
unit on the campus is trying to improve its 
quality and is exerting great effort to
Ancient Cultures of Peru
7:30 Wednesday Dec. 5
Multipurpose Room, Hunt Library 
Lecture. Speaker: Dr. James Richardson 
Sponsored by: Club Latinoamericano 
Free and open to the community
Funded by the Programming Committee
perform its teaching and research functions 
in a way that will bring greater recognition 
both internally and externally.
We can and will put our best efforts into 
raising funds from every known source. In 
many cases having well specified goals will 
increase our ability to get funds on the 
outside. The system of goals will be most 
helpful for aid in the allocation of internal 
funds from our endowment and other un
restricted monies and in those foundations 
where choices need to be made among sev
eral proposals. With these caveats in mind, 
let me attempt to specify.some of the goals 
as I see them at this time with the 
understanding that there will no doubt be 
changes.
Carnegie Institute of Technology
Carnegie-Mellon University still bears 
the hallmark of an institute of technology, 
and our largest single college still remains 
the engineering school. This college con
tinues to improve its quality and its outside 
recognition. The significant increase in the 
number of external grants is attestation of 
this fact. The college has also been success
ful in developing problem-oriented, inter
disciplinary areas and further progress in 
this direction is indicated. It is clear from 
its planning document that cooperation 
from the schools of management, SUPA 
and GSIA, is desirable. More specifically 
the problem areas of engineering are ex
tending to the public sector. It is becoming 
more universally recognized that 
environmental and urban problems can be 
solved only by a combination of manage
ment and technology. We are uniquely 
qualified at CMU to take the leadership in 
this movement and such leadership should 
be a major goal of this college. Great 
strides have already been taken with the 
development of the Engineering and Public 
Affairs program,, done jointly with SUPA. 
Much remains to be done. Other innovative 
areas such as the proposed design program 
which will require cooperation of the com
puter science department must be under
taken as well if we are to do our best in 
education and make our maximum contri
bution to society. We must as an 
institution continue to make the schools 
facilities and equipment adequate to enable 
it to achieve its goals.
College of Fine Arts
The space problem for Fine Arts is 
currently being resolved by the assignment 
of additional classrooms, offices and wo.icshops in various buildings on the CMU 
campus. Renovation for the Fine Arts 
Building will finally be realized; we have 
cleared the obstacles to keeping most of 
the monies that were originally designated 
for a new drama building and are at this 
moment advertising for bids from contract
ors. The problem of getting an adequate 
performing theatre and rehearsal studios 
and workshops for Drama still remains an 
important goal. In addition we must Find 
the means to contribute to lessen the cul
tural gap in drama in the Pittsburgh com
munity while at the same time enhancing 
the education given in the department.
This college also is frequently de
pendent for its improvement on coopera
tion with other colleges. Architecture has
provided leadership in this direction with 
its participation in the building sciences 
program with the civil engineering depart
ment and SUPA. Opportunities remain for 
significant new programs in areas such as 
theatre and museum management through 
cooperation with the management schools. 
The design department has developed 
strategy alternatives for its future and one 
of these would bring the department closer 
to CIT. In Music we must rethink our ob
jectives during the coming year in the pro
cess of searching for a new head. In 
Painting and Sculpture the task will be to 
develop a direction for a positive 
Jnte^rationJo^the^ar^and^
In setting goals, some disciplines 
and problems will receive more em
phasis than others. 
Many of the necessary developments in 
the College of Fine Arts appear to require 
funds beyond those available in the Univer
sity, and I believe that a major increase in 
external funds is both desirable and 
feasible.
Humanities and Social Sciences
In the College of Humanities and Social 
Sciences, we clearly have gained strength 
since the days when this college was merely 
a service division. We are stronger in both 
English and history, as well as in sociology, 
languages and psychology. I have no inten
tion of seeing this college returned to a 
service unit status. On the contrary, I be
lieve that by maintaining the strength of 
the departmental disciplines and by con
cerning ourselves with the professional as
pects of a liberal arts education, that we 
can develop a new form of liberal arts 
education for the country. English is devel
oping joint professional programs with the 
College of Fine Arts, and History is about 
to do the same with SUPA and GSIA. The 
department of Modern Languages has de
veloped the concept of a Translation Cen
ter in which to prepare its students. And 
under the leadership of our new Provost in 
Humanities and Social Sciences, Arnold 
Weber, the social sciences will offer addi
tional emphasis to the concept of profes
sionalism at the undergraduate level. The 
beginnings are promising. It is important 
now that the faculty take the lead in folInterested in 
Graduate Study in
BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 
HOSPITAL & HEALTH 
SERVICES ADMINISTRATION
See us December 4th 
at Bureau of Placements
for information about 
our two-year Masters 
degree programs at 
the Cornell University
GRADUATE SCHOOL OF 
BUSINESS AND PUBLIC 
ADMINISTRATION
Contact your placement 
office for exact times

---------------------------------------------------

By President Cyert
lowing through. This thrust will not impair 
the opportunities for a traditional major.
I am personally interested in exploring 
the introduction of a management program 
tha^jvoulcMii^ojDOth^
CM U still bears the hallmark of an 
Institute of Technology. 
One form that this program might take 
would be a basic two-year program from 
which students might choose either a tech
nical option such as is currently the curri
culum in A&MS or a less technical option, 
either of which will prepare them for a 
career in public or private management. 
Such a program would bring the profes
sional element of education directly into 
the colleges and would, I believe, satisfy a 
strong need held by many students for 
both a broad general education and a pro
fessional education in a four year period. I 
realize that this view may be a minority 
one and may also cause other stresses, but I 
believe we should explore the possibility. 
Another area of potential importance to 
H&SS is public affairs. With the reorganiza
tion of H&SS and SUPA under a single 
provost, there will be a closer relationship 
between the two and thus a greater empha
sis in the college on both research and 
education in public affairs. This does not 
replace but complements the relationship 
that H&SS has with other colleges such as 
Fine Arts.
Mellon Institute of Science
The Mellon Institute of Science finds 
itself in a society where science in general 
has been under some attack and where job 
opportunities in some traditional fields of 
science are reduced. Such a situation must 
demand a careful examination of missions, 
goals and programs to assure that we use 
our resources wisely. We have a department 
of computer science that is one of the top 
departments in the country. We need to 
use this department more effectively to 
increase our strength in other areas as has 
been done by the link with psychology. 
Since it is so vital to strengthening other 
programs, this department must continue 
to receive the support necessary to enable 
it to retain its position and improve its own 
programs. Physics is clearly a strong and 
highly regarded department and we want 
to maintain this position. We have an 
opportunity to rethink our goals in 
chemistry because of impending retire
ments and the search for a new head. Ul
timately, we will need to increase our 
strength in biology and in mathematics. It 
is clear that we must be strong in science 
both for itself and to give the kind of 
support to the engineering areas and other 
parts of the campus that are dependent on 
science.
It does not follow, however, that we 
must maintain the academic budget of 
every department as its current size in or
der to maintain our strength in science. 
Some reallocation may be necessary to best 
meet future needs. The financial stress on 
the University can be reduced if a heavier 
load of faculty salaries is carried by re
search grants. This may mean some reduc
tion in postdoctoral fellowships or in tech
nical support. I have asked the dean of MIS 
to give careful consideration to these and 
other alternatives in his discussion with the 
faculty to maintain our strength in science..
GSIA and SUPA
Our schools of management are strong 
and relevant contributors to our mission as 
a professional school. We have not yet pre
pared plans for GSIA because of the 
coming of a new dean. GSIA must remain 
strong and further emphasize its manage
ment faculty. It must also reexamine its 
strategy since the original GSIA approach 
now is accepted widely and is followed by 
a large number of schools. Clearly one of 
the ways that this University can make a 
distinctive contribution in the coming 
decade is through the combination of man
agement and engineering and in particular 
in their application to the problems of our 
urban society. It follows, therefore, that 
we must also continue to strengthen the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs. It is 
my own conviction that our greatest con
tribution lies in increasing the number of 
professional practitioners that we graduate. 
It is through these practitioners that our 
greatest impact on urban management can 
be made.
Departments
In addition to goals for the various 
colleges, there is concern about certain 
departments within the University regard
less of the college in which they lie. Some 
of these have been named in the prior 
discussion, but it will be useful to mention 
them again. The point that I am emphasiz
ing in this section is that our goal should be 
to maintain the strength of departments 
that now have national or world-wide sig
nificance as long as they contribute to our 
university goals of better education, the 
discovery of new knowledge, and creative 
cultural contributions. Specifically, I see 
computer science, drama, economics, and 
psychology as departments falling into this 
category.
We also are interested in developing and 
backing new programs that cut across de
partments and colleges, such as the newly 
conceived building sciences program. Good 
professional education requires the crossing 
of traditional boundaries._______________
"/ have no intention of seeing 
this college (H&SS) returned 
to a service unit status. 
In this document I have frequently 
referred to the importance of the growth 
of the external reputation of the Universi
ty. This sensitivity to external standards is, 
perhaps, a disease of univeristy presidents. 
Partly it is pride in the institution one 
represents. Despite any tendency to look 
to the outside for judgements on our 
quality, I want to emphasize the 
importance I place on developing our own 
internal standards of quality. In particular 1 
place great importance on our historical 
role of educational innovator both of new 
curricula and of educational techniques 
and methods. From the days of the Car
negie Plan to the present, this University 
has maintained a strong interest through
out its departments and colleges in educa
tion. This goal of distinguished education 
will continue to be a major goal of the 
University, and we anticipate that at some 
point in the near future one to three per.cent of the budget will be reserved for
educational innovative activities as a means 
of continuous self renewal of the 
University.
Size of Faculty
As I have indicated CMU will continue 
to place a heavy emphasis on high quality 
undergraduate education. With the reduc
tion of the number of students available 
for enrollment in universities in the 70s 
and with the expected trend of a higher 
proportion of the available students going 
to public universities, it is necessary for us 
to begin to investigate the proper size of 
the faculty, currently about 430. Further 
study on projected enrollment and the gen
eral financial picture is necessary before a 
rational goal for faculty size can be set. It 
is also my hope that we can achieve a 
reversal of the current methods of finan
cing public universities so that the shift of 
students to public universities will not be 
as great as projected. Nevertheless, the pos
sibility of a small total faculty size must be 
examined because we are devoted to the 
goal of operating the University on a 
balanced budget.
Repair of Physical Plant
Another proiorty goal must be the 
elimination of safety hazards in our phys
ical plant and to repair roofs and bricks 
and mortar so as to maintain the integrity 
of our buildings. For at least the next five 
years we must devote $800,000 to a mil
lion dollars a year for repair of plant. The 
years of ignoring the physical aspects of 
the Universitys facilities have caught up 
with us and resources must now be devoted 
to this area.
Endowment
One of the measures of quality of a 
university is the endowment per faculty 
member. Currently we have approximately 
$250,000 of endowment per faculty mem
ber. Such a figure is fair, but not at the 
level necessary to achieve greatness as an 
institution. Therefore, one of our goals 
must be to increase our total endowment
In summary, Carnegie-Mellon will 
continue to remain a professionally or
iented school devoted to both education 
and research. We will emphasize undergrad
uate education, as well as achieving scholar
ly eminence in a number of fields. We will 
continue to be the one of the few universi
ties in the country in which the two cul
tures problem is minimized. We will follow 
a policy of renovation rather than con
structing new buildings. We will devote sig
nificant amounts of money both to intel
lectual self-renewal and physical plant 
renewal over the next five years. We will 
work to strengthen our management at all 
levels to assure effective use of our re
sources. We will continue to study the 
problem of size, but it is likely that we will 
set a goal of a lower faculty size some time 
in the near future. We will follow the pol
icy of concentrating our resources where 
we already have strength. At the same 
time, we will not allow deterioration of 
any of our current programs unless there is 
a specific decision to discontinue a particu
lar area as we have done several times in 
the past. At present, however, there is no 
specific plan to abandon any particular 
area in which we are now operating. Final
ly, we will attempt to increase the financial 
resources of the University and particularly 
the endowment.
These goals and policies have developed 
from our planning process over the past 
year and from analyses made during the 
1972-73 year by my administration. We
We anticipate that... in the 
near future one to three per
cent of the budget will be 
reserved for educational 
innovative activities.
must continue to operate in a planning 
mode and be prepared each year to modify 
goals and policies. Careful study of this 
kind joined with the energy and intelli
gence we have on this campus can help lead 
us to the achievement of our goals. We 
must concentrate on making this 
University into an institution that is a 
major contributor to the improvement of 
our society and, indeed, to the lot of all
toloseJx^iSOOjOOOjjeMjault^
the professional art of applying science 
to the optimum conversion of natural resources to the 
benefit of man.
Stanford School of Engineering's wide ranging graduate programs 
offer qualified men and women exciting avenues to rewarding, 
satisfying, professional careers
The Stanford School of Engineering is searching for graduate 
students from among qualified maiors in engineering, .mathematics, 
and the sciences
A representative from the school will be on campus to discuss 
Stanford's ten engineering departments and inter disciplinary 
programs, research opportunities, the financial assistance available, 
and other aspects of engineering at Stanford
 Thursday, December 6
Make arrangements to meet him thiough
 CAREER SERVICES & PLACEMENT
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING Stanford University

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14  THE TARTAN  Tuesday, December 4, 1973
COMMENTARY
by Shelley Burhans 
Features Editor
Editors Note: Tins commentary> appeared 
inchoate in the 11/20 TARTAN due to 
technical errors in the lay-out of the page. 
For this reason we have reprinted it, in its 
proper form.
We are looking at our own society 
where we must break down the ghetto 
walls and throw open the prison doors. 
Those who der,>imd law and order must 
learn that these are impossible outside a 
context of justice and compassion. 
Statement from WRL. Feb. 1973
The question of freedom for a country, 
settled for this country almost two 
centuries ago. inherently involves the 
question of independence within the 
country. That battle rages in the U.S. less 
violently and more determinedly than ever. 
The immediate struggle for independence, 
won in terms of freedom from powers 
extending outside U.S. borders, has simply 
been reduced to containment within those 
borders. The United States, in 1973. is still 
a slave-holding nation.
Descendants of the slaves, thousands of 
sharecroppers work the same plantations 
their ancestors worked, for the descendants 
of the original owners, in conditions 
unchanged over two hundred years. There 
is yet another group of slaves in this 
country, and they number in the millions. 
The farmworkers who feed us.
They work in one of the most 
hazardous occupations in the country. Not 
that the sun isn't healthy, or that theres 
anything dangerous about good soil, or 
that lettuce bites. The reason lies in that 
the few large corporate growers in this 
country, so few and so large that they are 
simply labeled agribusiness, employ the 
farmworkers, in what for many is a 
transient life, with little or no pay, few 
rights, and little hope of escaping thp in
human conditions where disease, and death 
are as rampant as the debts incurred for 
them by the middle-men labor con
tractors.
The injustices suffered by that many 
American citizens denies the moral power 
of the entire country, and weakens any 
claim we might otherwise have to justice 
and equality.
You are manly when you resist in
justice with the strength of your soul.  
Cesar Chavez, in response to 
accusations leveled by Teamsters 
that (the farmworkers) non-violent 
resistance is unmanly.
Cesar Chavez and his family left their 
Oregan farm during the Depression, moving 
to California for the work purported to be 
there (a situation similar to that of the 
Joads in Steinbecks Grapes of Wrath). 
Arriving in California, they were soon 
trapped in the migrant stream of those who 
pick the crops, the same stream that exists 
today.
Chavez later settled in northern 
California and worked for San Franciscos 
Community Services Organization He left 
CSO after ten years, to organize, "in the 
fields, a self-determined movement to. 
gain the farmworkers rights. The United 
Farmworkers (UFW) is the result of those 
efforts.
Chavez brought the plight of the tarm 
workers to light with the first UFW strike 
and boycott in 1965, and with non-violent
action won the first protective contracts 
the farmworkers had ever known. During 
the contract period, the farmworkers were 
able to make extensive reforms in the areas 
of housing, education and medical care.
Non-Violence To The Test Again
The contracts, won with five years of 
struggle and sacrifice, expired this year. 
The growers immediately signed sweet
heart contracts with the Teamsters, who 
falsely claim to represent the farmworkers. 
In addition, Teamster officials say, it will 
be some time before we can use MexicanAmerican ideas in our union . . . perhaps 
two years. (The farmworkers, although 
comprised of all races, are primarily 
Chicano; Americans of Mexican descent.)
Let me emphasize this. Teamsters dont 
do the backbreaking work of picking 
lettuce and grapes. They have been hiring 
high school students and children, and 
illegally immigrating Mexicans to break the 
strike. Their contracts offer none of the 
protection clauses the UFW demands, such 
as pesticide control clauses, clauses that 
farmworkers need if they are to survive and 
that you need if your food is to be safe. 
Teamsters are fond of saying that farm
workers hate Chavez and are coerced into 
joining the UFW. Teamsters, too, are fond of 
clubs and guns and dogs. I have seen them 
scatter strike-lines, , and have watched them 
standing one-one over the strike-breakers in 
the fields, to keep them there once the 
strike-breakers have learned of the strike.
Thus the injustice is compounded, and, 
grows as it always does when condoned by 
the law enforcement agencies and silenced 
by the rest of us.
To Be Or Not To Be
When two farmworkers were killed this 
summer, Chavez called for a strengthening 
of farmworker and supporter commitment 
to non-violence, and organized a nation
wide boycott of lettuce, grapes and all 
grape products.
This leaves the struggle directly up to all 
of us.
The massive American battle for Civil 
Rights is not over. We can win it only by 
educating ourselves as to the realities of 
this world and their implications, and 
acting accordingly. Education is not 
enough, and it is the easiest thing in the 
world to arouse the sympathy of most 
people for the farmworkers cause. There 
are only two possible stands on this issue: 
action, or the complacency which 
inevitably licenses corruption.
And none of us are free from the ill 
effects of that.
Many people have recognized and 
responded to this responsibility, as many 
did in the last strike. Special 
commendation is due to the small group of 
faculty members at CMU and other Pitts
burgh schools who have chosen, despite the 
reluctance of many of their colleagues for 
political and reasons of relevance to 
support our efforts, by bringing the farm
workers, films and thus the cause into the 
classroom, and otherwise. Independence 
and education such as this are what the 
(non-violent) struggle for justice is all 
about.
As for relevance in a university, the 
farmworkers struggle has been one of the 
most crucial and moving dramas in this 
country for two centuries.
It has and continues to embody conflict 
enough for any writer, and is in fact the 
subject of one of the greatest pieces of 
American literature ever written.
The labor camps are places progress in 
technology and community planning have
crucially failed to reach.
Last but far from least, the spirit and 
the sense demonstrated by the farm
workers under their extenuating circum
stances are psychological forces we might 
all recognize and learn from.
Can we obtain the education that the 
world, with the U.S., seems so crucially to 
need? It seems to me that it is the responsi
bility of everyone to teach what they 
know, of the teacher to encourage the 
learning of that which he does not, and of 
all to remain students.
Beyond this, I feel that there can be 
little question that we must direct our 
energies, as our individual skills and con
sciences dictate, towards justice and 
freedom. That somebody else who will 
do it or the somebody else who blew it 
is. . . you.
Under a government which imprisons 
any injustly, the true place for a just 
man is also prison.
Henry D Thoreau 
We are a war-torn world, and heading 
towards a violent crisis-perhaps a decisive 
one-so quickly that we have little choice 
but to be as aware and as effective as we 
each can. Even without the Israel-Arab 
political conflict, the Chilean and Portu
guese bloodbaths, Africas unalleviated 
famine, the continuing war in Vietnam, the 
highly unspiritual religious war in 
Ireland...we would still know human 
injustice, and the personal, social,and 
political prisons in every form that make 
injustice possible.
Compounding the difficulties, we are a 
leaderless nation.
The farmworkers have a leader. Working 
with them, I now feel I have one, too. And 
I feel more strongly than ever that we have 
a firm, humane force against injustice in 
these people who know the shortcomings 
of this country so well, having suffered 
from them, and who have exhibited the 
strength and the courage to morally rise 
above those sufferings.
The farmworkers now staying in Pitts
burgh are here until the victory, without 
choice, as aretheirfriends in other major 
cities across the country. If they dont 
fight injustice now, the odds are that they 
will die in the fields not too long from 
now. But they struggle not only for them
selves, they struggle for what we as a 
people and as universal citizens so badly 
want and need . . reason, equality, justice; 
an education.
Perhaps these next few years, and con
ceivably this struggle, coupled with the 
positive aspects of the sixties struggles . .
. perhaps these next few years will 
determine a victory for peace and human 
rights as massive as the struggle for these 
has been.
Perhaps it will determine an ineradicable 
legacy of human complacency.
With your support, we (farmworkers 
and supporters) believe that the former can 
be realized. We know that the political 
vacuum which som^ claim exists, where 
there is nowhere to start, no oppor
tunity for actively participating in positive 
change, doesnt really exist. The 
farmworkers have won before, and 
instigated tremendous improvements in 
their own existance - primarily with the 
support of university members. There is 
every evidence that they will win again, but 
they need your support so that the 
suffering is not prolonged.
We need them, and the answers and the 
strength that these citizens have arrived at.
To End The Endless Black Roads
I couldnt begin to recreate for you the 
pictures that migrant children draw, with 
empty one-room houses, colorless skies and 
heavy black crayon lines running off the 
page, symbolic of the endless roads, from 
California to Maine; the roads they travel 
to put the vegetables on your kitchen 
table, the fruit in your refrigerator.
They travel those roads and live and die 
in the fields of innumerable states, in
cluding Pennsylvania; at five and, if they 
survive that long, at fifty.
A child in his last agony from starvation 
or pesticide poisoning, in a field 50 or
3,000 miles from your clean, warm 
room(s), is not an isolated incident, 
irrelevant to your life. It is questionable, 
now more than ever, that a government 
which refuses to accomodate and act 
responsibly towards that child and 
*3,000,000 other of its citizens will take 
responsibility for the rest when it becomes 
inconvenient.
And it seems plausible that people who 
wont take responsibility for the civil rights 
of themselves and others are a glaring green 
light for a government to abdicate just that 
responsibility.
Si Se Puedes (Yes, We Can)
The struggle for justice has never been 
an easy one, and getting involved means 
sacrifice - of time, of energy, of sleep and 
of money. There are many who think these 
are preferable to sacrificing humanity to a 
bomb.
Perhaps were wrong.
If you care to take the chance that 
were right, there are a number of ways 
you can support La Causa.
Boycott all Teamster grapes and 
lettuce, as well as California wines (notably 
Gallo and Guild).
Educate yourself to become an expert 
in the problem. Two of the best books to 
read are Peter Mathiessons Sal Si Puedes 
and Si Se Puedes. In Chavez words, 
Everyone is an organizer. Disseminate 
information about the struggle at every 
opportunity, to all who will listen.
-Give a hand in the office at 1443 
Severn St. (Sq. Hill) and on the picket lines 
in Oakland, E. Liberty or McKees Rocks 
(call the Boycott Office for schedules, at 
521-6781).
Get the information into the class
room.
-Go to Bakersfield, California in the 
spring, and offer your services at the UFW 
office or in the Huelga (Strike) schools.
-If you cant contribute your time, the 
farmworkers in Pittsburgh need people to 
help pay the monthly bills. They also need 
food and clothing.
This support is particularly crucial now, 
as grape and wine sales double during the 
Christmas and Thanksgiving season.
It would seem to be common sense and 
human responsibility, regardless of what 
one studies or does for a living, to deter
mine the truth and develop the courage to 
speak out and act for justice in any 
situation where it is necessary. In the 
interest of the preservation of human 
spirit. . . humanity, your voice is needed.
The essence of this struggle is perhaps 
best summed in the words of one of the 
students working on the CMU Support 
Committee, a Chicano himself. If I were 
ever to become president, he commented, 
the first thing I would do would be to 
change the color of the White House to 
brown. Like the earth.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN  Tuesday, December 4, 1973 Page 15
What can just one private citizen do?
Ralph Nader 
urges you to become 
a Public Citizen
Dear Fellow Citizen:Imagine that 25 or 30 years ago citizens concerned about the future quality of life in America had gotten together to do something about it.Suppose they had begun an effective citizens campaign to make government agencies and industry management sensitive and responsive to the needs of the people. The real needs, of all the people.Think how much that was already wrong would have been corrected by now.Think how much that has gone wrong since then would never have been allowed to happen.If the public had acted years ago, we would long ago have eliminated or minimized the inexcusable pockets of poverty in our land of plenty; the vile and violent contaminants that pollute our air and water; the ravaging of our land by insensitive corporate and government forces; the sickening, often lethal, chemicals, gases and dust in many of our factories, foundries and mines; the unrestrained power and expenditures of our military establishment; the inequities in taxation that takes 20% of workers wages while many with enormous incomes pay little or 
nothing.Our people would not be disenchanted and disillusioned. And the prevailing mood in America would not have turned from confidence and pride and hope to growing feelings of frustration and outrage and hopelessness.
What if we dont act now?
In another 30 years our population will have doubled. What if our rampant economic growth is allowed to continue indiscriminatelymindless of the publics hopes and indifferent to their problems?What if we continue to do nothing because we assume that others are taking care of these problems?Who is taking care of them?
It is clear that our institutions, public and private, are not really performing their regulatory functions. They tend not to control power democratically, but to concentrate it and to serve special interest groups at the expense of voiceless citizens.Almost all the organized legal representation in our country is working to protect private interests and private wealth.
Who represents the citizen? Only ourselves. And that is why I urge you, as a public citizen a citizen concerned about your community and your country to support Public Citizen.If we do not speak up in the public interest now, if weallow the problems to multiply, life in America could be intolerable. Perhaps impossible.
Citizen Advocates-Citizen Supporters A Cause for Optimism
We have seen how a few determined citizens can overcome overwhelming odds to better their communities. What has been accomplished so far is not the work of one person but of more than 30 young men and women lawyers, other professionals and students. If more valiant and dedicated people were able to work on a broader scale, think how much more could be accomplished.Thousands of graduates of law, medical, science and engineering schools and other disciplines want to work long hours, at minimal wages in the public interest. They know that our society cannot solve its problems if all our most highly trained professionals work for private industry or government agencies.If these selfless young people are willing to sacrifice conventional rewards to pioneer the future, other public spirited citizens will surely want to make it possible for them to do so.Through Public Citizen, we ask concerned students to contribute $5.00 (nonstudents are sending $15.00 or more) to support a lean, hard-working group of these citizen-advocates.Through published studies and documentation, they will help to sharpen public awareness of our problems. Public awareness leads to public action.Historically, the idealism and energy of students has been a potent force for change. We hope to provide a dynamic vehicle and clear goals for those hopeful qualities by organizing student supported public interest groups throughout the country to work for lasting change through an orderly, democratic system.They will represent disadvantaged minority groups, before the various legal agencies of state and federal governments. They will seek to temper the actions of large corporations that have acquired power far out of proportion to their contributions to society.In some important way, every major company touches on the lives of thousands of peopleemployees, consumers, retailers, taxpayers and whole communities. Shouldnt these people have a voice about policies that directly and adversely affect them? Must not a just legal system accord victims the ability to deter forces that tend to victimize them?
A way must be found to make a real impact on corporate boardrooms and on government agencies that often serve as protectors, even service arms, of the industries they are supposed to regulate.Bureaucrats cannot easily resist the overwhelming pressures of special interest lobbies in Washington and state 
capitals. But there can be a greater countervailing pressure the determination of citizens lobbying for the public interest.Once a year, as a Public Citizen supporter, you will receive a report on significant new citizen involvements that have been effective in achieving reform or relief at the local, state, or national level. Hopefully, you will apply them in the areas of your own commitment to action. Citizenship skills must be continually sharpened and used if we are to succeed in preventing or diminishing injustice.Potentially, there are 200 million of us unable to work full-time for the public interest but with a full-time anxiety about it. Think how much can be accomplished if enough private citizens become public citizens.Please mail the coupon and your check for $5 or more to help Public Citizen continue and expand the work that is already under way.Let it not be said by a future, forlorn generation that we wasted and lost our great potential because our despair was so deep we didnt even try, or because each of us thought someone else was worrying about our problems.
Sincerely,
Public Citizen, Inc.P.O. Box 19404, Washington, D.C. 20036
I am a Public Citizen. Enclosed is my? Student contribution of $5.00.? Non-student contribution of $15.00.? Additional contribution of $Please dont waste any of it sending me a thank-you letter, a membership card or literature. I know whats wrong. What I want is to see something done about it.
Name______________________________
Address 
City-----
StateZip.
Please make check payable to:Public Citizen, Inc. J () o

---------------------------------------------------

-'' - ' ' - r;<Un'yM /AT/T 1HTPage 16- THE TARTAN - Tuesday. December 4. 1073
the big bite
On W On JLl
bv Sracev Robin Kimbell
The best way to see the first floor of the 
Carnegie Museum is to try to find the 
cafeteria. The first sign directs you to the 
"Fish That Couldn't Read." The exhibition 
has something to do with a loner fish that 
doesn't travel in a school. It's the lead in to 
the marine hall, a maze that forbids you to 
find the cafeteria without passing The 
Octopus Who Ate Pennsylvania. At the 
Octopus you are directed to the dinosaur 
room and first are greeted by Chinese 
oracle bones and the jurassic siant killer
who is dead anyways but because of energy 
the museum only keeps one light on in liis 
room and he casts a giant killer shadow if 
youre not expecting it. The bones go on 
until the ice age buffalo and then suddenly 
you are in birdland. This is a good sign 
'cause the fourth guard said to turn right at 
the pelican case. Every bird conceivable has 
been taxidermized by the Carnegie 
Museum. The pelican is wearing purple eye 
shadow. To the right of him is the cafeteria 
staircase. The cafeteria is a veritable fall
out shelter. It's way underground and 
bound with marble. Probably blastproof.
All in the same, besides its marble walls 
and reject paintings from upstairs, the 
Carnegie cafeteria is an all too well-lit 
nightmare in old age. It's patrons are 
museum pieces themselves. Most of them 
are alone and those who are with others 
just sit gazing at the almost making-it 
paintings on the wall. There was a woman, 
easily out of a mummy case for a feeding, 
with a perfect figure and an exaggerated 
Fellini face. She knew everyone that passed 
and was discussing her world travels. 
Through the travelogue I'm sure. She was 
showing her new Japanese lorgnettes to a 
timid woman who probably Jiadn't spoken 
to anyone since the last World War. These 
people were all at the cafeteria to see 
travelogues. It is open for dinner Tuesday 
and Thursday nights from 4-7 because of 
the travelogues.
Its Skibo glorified. The rolls are fifteen
cents instead of five and are stale, the 
salads are forty cents rather than twenty 
five but are fresher. Their entree prices are 
similar but the Carnegie entrees are 
superior. 1 had roast beef with mixed 
vegetables, apple sauce, a banana and 
coffee for S2.50. The china is very old. A 
dinner is $2.35 and the cashier 
compromised the banana with me in place 
of the roll. My accomplice who was scared 
of the birds ate a chicken that still had 
feathers but was cheap. He paid S2.02 for a 
huge chicken breast, mashed potatoes with 
egg-yolk-mustard-colored gravy and a 
drink. I think he thought the chicken 
bones were going to be encased the next 
morning.
There is no reason to gp to the Carnegie 
Cafeteria for dinner. The museum is closed 
at dinner time and unless, youve a flair for 
the morose, walking through a half-lit 
museum of reproductions with guards that 
have been chloroformed in 1957 and are 
still waiting serves no purpose except of 
course dinner. But during the day if you 
are willing to take a five minute walk down 
to the museum and a ten minute walk once 
in the museum to find the cafeteria, there 
coffee is absolutely terrific.
Vandals decapitated and mutilated the 
statues of 27 historical and entertainment 
personalities including W.C. Fields and 
Raquel Welch, at the Hollywood Wax 
Museum. Left untouched were religious 
siatues and those of Presidents Kennedy 
and Nixon.
A Contract
When Donald Johanos put out a contract 
for some new music, the job was done by 
C-MU faculty member, Byron McCulloch. 
responding with his Symphony 
Concertante for Timpanist and Orchestra. 
The piece requires the use of 17 drums 
when three to five are the number 
normally used. Mr. McCulloch graduated 
from the Eastman School of Music. The 
symphony will be performed by the Pitts
burgh Symphony on December 21 and 
December 23 at Heinz Hall.
0 Sole Mio
The Pittsburgh Opera will present Mozarts 
opera Don Giovani on December 6 and 8 
at Heinz Half
Organism
A special evening of music will be per
formed to celebrate the eleventh anni
versary of the Beckerath Organ at St. Pauls 
Cathedral in Oakland. Featured will be 
three C-MU alumni, Paul Koch, Francois 
Clemmons, and Robert Calvert. The 
program will be highlighted by the 
Schubert Mass, and will take place on 
December 9, at 8:30 p.m.
Alumni
There will be a showing of Andy Warhols 
film Chelsea Girls, on December 5, at 
Benadum Hall down at U. of Pitt., at 7 
oclock sharp. Wasnt Warhol booted out?
Opera singer Beverly Sills will give a benefit concert at Heinz Hall on Jan. 8th.
Anniversary
Willa Cather would have been 100 years 
old on December 7 but since she 
died ... An exhibition of her works and 
other memorabilia -will be shown through 
December 31 at C-MLPs Hunt Library. 
Much of the material will be on loan from 
Pittsburgh Cather collectors. The exhibit 
will be open from 1-4:30 p.m. daily.
Prisoner
The next touring company to hit the 
Nixon Theatre will be that of Neil Simons 
comedy The Prisoner of Second Avenue, to 
star Shelley Berman and Mimi Hines, 
running through the week of December 3. 
Call the Nixon box office at 281-6773 for 
further information.
Yahoo
The Young Adult Fellowship announces a 
square dance for single adults, called by 
Mr. Earl Hastings, who indubitably must be 
a well known caller. It will whirl and swing 
its partners on Saturday, December 8, at 8 
p.m. at the South Avenue United 
Methodist Church in Wilkinsburg.
Big Bev
Beverly Sills will appear in recital at Heinz 
Hall on behalf of the March of Dimes, 
January 8. at 8:30 p.m. Tickets are $12.50, 
$10, S8 and $6, and may be purchased at 
Heinz Hall and the downtown department 
stores.
&
o
co
Philip Pelusi supercufs
For Men & Women
1814 Murray Ave. Pittsburgh. Pa. 15217J
Artiste
The Kingpitcher Gallery presents a show
case of works of such world famous artists 
as Miro, Vasarely, and Saul Steinberg, in its 
annual holiday show. The exhibition lasts 
through December 29. v
Special Performance
On December 5, in connection with the 
Poetry Forum, Tom Sawyer (the actor), 
will present a program entitled The State 
of Alan, based on selected readings from 
the works of Shakespeare. The content of 
the program is taken from the plays, 
sonnets, and poems, and is divided into 
three parts: youth, maturity, and old age 
and death. The State of Alan was originally 
created by Sir John Gielgud, presented 
on Broadway as Ages of Alan. The perform
ance is at 8:15, and tickets are $3.00, 
available at the department stores, Pitt 
Student Union and at the Forum office 
down at the library. The show is directed , , 
by Anthony Perkins, everybody s favorite 
psycho.

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, December 4, 1973 - Page 17
by Susan N. Klein
The Kurt Weill/Bertholt Brecht musical 
The Threepenny Opera will be the next 
Drama Department Mainstage Production, 
to run from December 9 until and 
including December 15, excluding Sunday 
performances. Tickets - for non-drama 
students have been distributed Monday and 
Tuesday the 3rd and 4th from 3 p.m. to 4 
p.m. in the Drama office; one ticket for 
each ID card only. Ticket holders are to be 
seated by 8:10. Threepenny ran for over a 
thousand performances at the Theatre De 
Lys in New York where Moonchildren 
now is running. See Threepenny, hear 
Mack the Knife, no Bobby Darin, no 
review.
Oh yes, a big week for theatre here in 
the pitts, and just in time for finals so 
theres no time to go. You should 
remember that a trip to a play may just be 
the kind of refreshing break you may need. 
Two very fine events are taking place right 
here on campus. Besides the Drama depart
ments production of Threepenny, Scotch 
and Soda, the non-dramat theatre club, 
will be performing the first of two pro
ductions for this year, Woodwind.
Woodwind, based somewhat upon 
Howard Pyles Merry Tales of Robn Hood, 
is a good old musical comedy, as opposed 
to Fechtors Farces of Days Gone By. The 
book has been written and expanded from 
an earlier production entitled Reach Out
and Take It, which ran last year down at 
the U.A.C.M. building.Mark Yochum 
penned the libretto, and the music was a 
collaboration by John Grefenstette and 
Bruce Murray.
1 attended an energetic rehearsal of the 
production last week, and it was all so 
optimistic and happy and encouraging. The 
whole production seems to be charged up 
with the healthy excitement of a co
operative collaboration of creative efforts; 
so different from the air of self-indulgence 
that the vanity productions of past years 
have smacked of. Mark Yochum, who is 
also the director, slides along, so confident, 
strolling around with a sly perpetual grin 
on his face, like he knows its all going to 
work. Hes lanky and sort of slouched over,* 
and before he said anything he right away 
reminded me of George S. Kaufman, with 
that slick self-assured style. He directed 
like George S. too; wandering around in 
the front of Skibo Ballroom, checking out 
his blocking from seven different angles, 
snapping his fingers with the tempo he 
wanted the show to fly with.
Alright, that was really slow, people. 
Lets take it again, lets come in with those 
lines faster...
Etc. A typical rehearsal, but wonder
fully professional looking. The snatches of 
music Ive heard sound very unusual; a 
combination of rock, Showtune-sell-itbaby, and easy-going pop. Yochum 
described the book as being tragedy with
'Woodwind"in rehearsal.
a lot of laughs, which is a new one on me. 
The show is fairly long; three acts with two 
intermissions, and also involves a little free 
history lesson. It seems that the story takes 
place during Richards Crusade from 1193 
until 1198, which makes the show a sort of 
semi-documentary, I suppose.
Mitchell Weissberg, who looks a little 
like Paul McCartney and sounds a lot like 
Groucho Marx, is playing Robin Hood, the 
role he had done in the original version of 
Reach Out and Take It. Becky Harrison, a 
freshman, is playing Maid Marion. And 
Mark and John are playing small parts in 
the play as well. Were Deacons, you see, 
Yochum explained with his grin as he 
scooted around off stage and in and out of
Photo by John Shettel
I guess the nicest thing about the 
dynamism and talent of Scotch and Soda is 
the fact that none of the participants are in 
drama. Mark Yochum is a senior history 
major, John Grefenstette is a Junior 
majoring in Math, and Bruce Murray is a 
freshman musician. The ambitious scoring 
of Murray calls for twenty-two musicians, 
and only two members of the entire cast 
have ever been involved in a Scotch and 
Soda before.
Woodwind runs from December 4 through 
7. and tickets may be purchased in Baker 
Hall or at the door. I cant imagine a more 
pleasant way to spend an evening.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18 -4 THE TARTAN - Tuesday. December 4, 1973
by Steve Perkins
There are many artists on the current 
rock scene who claim to be fusing the rock 
and classical idioms, but most of them 
never get beyond brandishing a snatch of 
Bach here and there. Michael Kumen is 
different. As an improvising pianist and 
composer he draws on a rich classical 
background encompassing all musical 
periods and makes a statement which is 
original and uniquely his own.
As most of Kamens Julliard cohorts 
who made up the original group have left, 
it is perhaps best to describe the present 
New York Rock Ensemble as a classical 
musician playing within the context of a 
rock band. Kamen seems to be in a 
position not unlike that of Frank Zappa: 
that of a leader and writer with an evolving 
concept and an ever-changing retinue of 
musicians. Just how loosely the Rock 
Ensemble is now affiliated is evidenced by 
the tact that the groups personnel as 
advertised did not agree with the groups 
personnel as introduced on stage. 
Nevertheless, the musicians were ex
ceptionally tight and the balance of instru
ments and use of dynamics were perhaps 
superior to any other rock band Ive seen. 
The bands current lineup provided some 
very interesting instrumental combinations 
including synthesizer and slide guitar 
exchanges and a saxophone and pedal steel 
duet.
The group relied about equally on old 
and new material. Such New York Rock 
Ensembles staples as Gravedigger and 
Fields of Joy were dressed up with new 
instrumental introductions and codas. The 
slithering intro to Anaconda was 
particularly effective in its contrast to the 
song.
Seeing ex-Paul Butterfield sax player 
Dave Sanborn was a delightful surprise, but 
unhappily his solos showed less restraint 
and invention than this work with Butter
field and he tended to step into the lime
light a little too much. Sometimes his 
playing didnt quite seem to fit the 
character of the music, although its 
technical brilliance cannot be disputed. 
Hank DeVitos performance on rhythm.
All photos by Popowitz
The New York Rock Ensemble in concert last Friday night.
lead and pedal steel guitar was also notable. 
His whining fuzz tone steel was very 
reminiscent of the New Riders Buddy 
Cage. The lead guitar and drums were also 
strong throughout.
Michael Kamens piano and oboe 
playing were of course impeccable, and his 
synthesizer work would put Keith Emerson 
to shame. Kamen has progressed 
considerably as a vocalist and songwriter 
since the group? early days and he aired 
several new compositions including a 
beautiful ballad called Everything That 
Touches Me Touches You, and even a
classical country lament and a classical 
reggae tune. Kamens stage presence was 
excellent also and he presented himself 
with a true charm and wit devoid of antics 
or gimmicks. He built up a strong rapport 
with the audience and several of his 
exchanges with individuals were quite 
humorous. Michael Kamen seems to have a 
special affection for C-MU. This is the 
first place we took off our tails, he said, 
so Im wearing mine tonight. After 
tumultous applause and several encores he 
ended the concert appropriately enough 
with Ill Always Be Beside You.
^^
ftr
k s
Early to bed, and early to rise, makes a man healthy, wealthy, and wise.Franklin
by Terry Caywood
Frank Napoli and &
Arnie Karr
Still excited from the exuberance of 
their set, we sat down with the New York 
Rock Ensembles Michael Kamen (key
boards, oboe and vocals) and Hank DeVito 
(guitar, pedal steel, vocals) in WRCTs 
Studio A. What followed was over an hour 
of dialogue, usually serious but often 
rather funny. The combination of 
Michaels enthusiasm in speaking of the 
groups evolution and the joviality of both 
Michael and Hank made the interview a 
very easy and enjoyable one.
Terry: Earlier this year there was an 
album entitled Michael Kamen-New York 
Rock. What was the status of the Ensemble 
at this point? What part did they have in 
the recording of it?
Hank: Its Mikes solo album, basically.
Mike: It was done at the point where 
the old group had decided to cool it. I had 
some songs that werent ready to be put 
into the fridge, so I decided to make an 
album of those songs. I went to Ahmet 
Ertegun at Atlantic Records. We had 
worked with him on our first three albums 
till we went over to Columbia. The band 
that I had on the album came on the road. 
Hank was in that band, Dennis Whitted, 
Larry Packer and those people.
Frank: What do you remember about 
C-MU?
Mike: This school was the first school 
we ever came to that we decided to take 
off the tails, cause Mama, they smelled! It 
was after a three week tour, and this was 
the last day on the tour. I guess it was the 
second time we had been here, so we felt 
that nobody was gonna miss anything.
Frank: When you go into the studio, is 
the music written down, or still in your 
heads?
Mike: Its never written out . . .
Terry: You're kidding.
Mike: We barely know what were 
gonna do.
Frank: How about on something like 
Beside You, with the counterpoint?
Mike: That specifically, the counter
point, was worked out, but Marty and I 
have been playin^oboes together for years, 
and mostly in the 17th Century style.
Arnie: Most people associate you with 
Julliard, the tails and classical music in 
general.
Mike: That was the main thrust of the 
first band (The New York Rockand Roll 
Ensemble). The period during which that 
was happening was the late 60s, and {hat 
was revelation time for everybody. Every
thing was wide open at that point. We were\ 
playing at a discotheque; Dorian, Marty 
and myself, the three of us from Julliard. 
We decided to put a band together, just to 
play around, to do dances. 1 have a bit of a 
folk background, I like the Beatles, Marty 
dug R&B, another guy like this ... It was a 
French horn player playing lead guitar, a 
tuba player playing bass.
Frank: There are a lot of people with 
classical training going into rock now ...
Mike: Yeah, that was logical. Classical 
music can be very rewarding, but it can 
also be incredibly boring. Especially when 
you feel like youre sitting on *the other

---------------------------------------------------

THETARTAN - Tuesday, Deiehfbfer 4, 1973 - Page 19
Film Arts Society
presents
Streetcar Named Desire
Thursday 4:30 7 9:30
December 6 Admission: 75<i
side of the fence, and you see all these 
freaks out there having a great time. And 
theres this old cat in front of you waving a 
stick in the air. And you say, What am I 
doing here? Im hipper than that. Im 
gonna play some Rock and Roll.
Marty thought it would be really funny 
if we called the group the New York 
Rock and Roll Ensemble cause there were 
all these groups at Julliard, like the New 
York Chamber Soloists, the New York 
Philharmonic, the Bach Aria Society, the 
New York Woodwind Quintet, the New 
York Brass Quintet, etc. So: the New York 
Rock and Roll Ensemble. Wed come out 
wearing tails, and we thought we were the 
horses ass; we thought it was really 
funny . . .
Arnie: It was. . .
Mike: Apparently, it was alright. Wed 
intersperse tunes like Nothing You Can 
Doa sort of obscure Wilson Pickett 
tunewith Trio Sonata by Bach or some
thing. People, in those days, were just wide 
open to that. It was something that theyd 
never seen before. We didnt play oboes 
and cellos in the band; that was something 
that came out in the studio.
Arnie: How would you characterize 
your approach to the studio?
Mike: The studio is another instrument.
Arnie: Is that a good thing, though?
Mike: Thats fantastic. The one thing 
that has kept art progressing is its use of 
available technology, which keeps spiraling 
upwards and upwards.
Arnie: It seems that live performances 
have always followed the lead of the 
newest things that were happening in the 
studio. Theres a constant effort to try and 
keep up.
Mike: There are two kinds of records: 
one that is made with the studio and one 
that is made in the studio, and theres a live 
performance which tries to duplicate the 
studio experience and a live performance 
thats trying to project a song-a person
ality of the band. You sit at home and 
listen to an album and you try to decide 
whats making what sound. If it happens in 
front of you on stage, its like a magic 
trick. Thats part of the drama of the 
performance.
Hank: There are enough gadgets out so 
that you can duplicate anything.
Frank: Getting back to the groups 
history, how did Dorian (Rudnytsky, 
ex-cellist and bass player) get.involved?
Mike: He was the president of the 
Student Council at Julliard, and he hired us 
for the first gig. We discovered that our 
bass player was staying up in Vermont that 
weekend, and we didnt have any 
amplifiers. I had heard that Dorian played 
bass, and had three amps. I asked him if 
hed play with us and bring his amps along. 
He was alright, why not. So he paid us, and 
we paid him back. Then he stayed around 
for about six years.
Arnie: When did you commit yourself 
to rock?
Mike: It was never a firm decision on 
anybodys part to stop playing classical 
music and start playing rock and roll. I 
think Pittsburgh, again, was one of the 
main reasons for me splitting from the 
classical music scene. I was in the Major 
Orchestra at Julliard and I was soloing, and 
the night of the first Julliard concert con
flicted with a date we had booked-it was
one of our first datesat the Syria Mosque 
opening up for Dionne Warwicke. I 
couldnt make the Julliard concert, so after 
that, I wasnt in the orchestra. In fact, I 
was out of everything but an Introduction 
to English Literature course. So I split.
Terry: What is your present involvement 
with classical music?
Mike: One of the reasons that the group 
activity is down right now-Ive been 
commissioned to write a ballet for the 
Harkness Ballet Company in New York and 
Ill be spending the next three months 
writing that. Its not classical-its 
symphonic.
Frank: Have you tlone much session 
work for other people?
Hank: Mike just did Jim Croces album.
Mike: That was so strange. We had done 
work on the albumIt was sounding 
beautiful. He went off to do a tour and got 
killed. After that, they still had to mix the 
album. He had done all his vocals, he had 
done all this guitar work, but a few of the 
songs needed some extra things. And to be 
working on that material within a week of 
his death in the studio was just very, 
very hard.
Frank: Did you do keyboards on the 
album?
Mike: Oboe and synthesizer.
Arnie: How long have you been working 
with the ARP synthesizer?
Mike: About two years.
Terry: It makes a nice addition.
Mike: When I first got it, I was really 
into it, but now, its an accessory. So many 
people tend to get gimmicky on it.
Arnie: I wouldnt say that your use of it 
is at all gimmicky.
Terry: Its nicely sparing.
Mike: Theres a very pure melodic 
sound that comes out of the instrument. 
Thats the sound that gets me off.
Arnie: Even as you departed from the 
classical approach, you still kept that 
serious attitude about playing music-that 
attitude that is disappearing in so many 
placesthat people often associate with 
classical music.
Mike: Thats the basis of the band. Its 
spearheaded by a cat like (saxophonist 
Dave) Sanborn. If you play with a cat like 
Sanborn, you cant play around. This is a 
guy who drinks saxophones for breakfast.
by Mark Evan Chimsky
Films about mad people should avoid, 
at all costs, driving their audience mad. 
Unfortunately, no one seems to have re
lated this news to Luchino Visconti, the 
renowned director of Ludwig (The Mad 
King of Bavaria).
The script, which Visconti collaborated 
on, is riddled with cliches, epigrams, am
biguities and melodrama. The best that can 
be said about the acting is that it is on a 
par with the dialogue. In fact, they deserve 
each other.
Helmut Bergers petulant, icy, and 
rather swishy Ludwig severely flaws the 
film. He rubs his anguished forehead so 
consistently you begin to wonder if youre 
not really watching a Bavarian-styled Excedrin commercial. The film is slightly re
deemed by the solid performances of Tre
vor Howard, Helmut Griem, and especially, 
the beautiful Romy Schneider, who, 
though seemingly bemused by the entire 
project, delivers a luminous portrayal as 
the Empress of Austria.
The films other saving grace is its stun
ning cinematography. Every frame is a 
painting, richly hued, subtly shaded, and 
exquisite in its composition. In fact, the 
best way to view Ludwig would be sans 
sound, sans action-as if it were a slide 
show.
Unfortunately, like the Mad King. Vis
conti has over-indulged his whims, and like 
Ludwigs subjects, we are not amused. The 
true artist must strive to refine and disci
pline his art. A director must be a con
ductor, integrating all his instruments to 
form one flowing, cinematic symphony. 
Sorry, Luchino, pretty pictures arent 
enough.
(Note: Ludwig now making the rounds 
again, will be headed toward Pittsburgh 
soon.)
Hank: He stands right next to me (on 
stage). Always freaks me out. I dont think 
hes ever played a wrong note in his life.
Mike: Dave Sanborn is like the killer sax 
player of all time. I dont really think 
theres a better sax player around.
Arnie: He did Zen Archer on Todd 
Rundgrens A Wizard/A True Star.
Hank: Yeah, he also played on Stevie 
Wonders Tuesday Heartbreak and he did 
the Stones tour with him.
Hank and Mike were very impressed 
with the posters for their concert. They 
left only after we gave them some.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday. December 4. 1973
SPORTS
EDITORIALTartans Look Good
But Go Down
This Week
by Jim Litsas
Ye olde wrestling mat will be rolled out 
onto the gym floor tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. 
for the Tartan's first wrestling match of the 
season, against Duquesne University. The 
team's only match until after Christmas 
vacation comes at a psychologically diffi
cult time of the year, just before exams. 
Fifteen serious individuals are up lor it 
already.
Contrary to popular belief, all wrestlers 
are not 400 lb., faceless hulks. Anyone 
who has seen a college wrestling match 
knows that wrestlers are. in fact, built 
quite solidly. They have to be. Wrestling is 
ail ai t that involves the use of speed, lever
age and sometimes just plain strength. For 
a wrestler, three pounds of fat are simply 
three pounds of extra weight that reduce 
his speed and mobility. It's not unusual lor 
a college wrestler to go for two or three 
days without eating, simply to get lid of 
excess weight. And of course, they are 
constantly toning up their muscles in 
various ways, the object not being to 
become Sir Sinewy, but rather to be light 
yet powerful. Obviously any person who 
has the willpower to phTsically exert 
himself each day the way wrestlers do. and 
often go for days without eating, must
Photo by Rose r 
Tartan veteran Gary Rentsch drives
for the PAC championship. Coach Yaksich 
stated that we played better this year 
against them than last year when we won.
The game actually was won at the foul 
line. C-MU sank 9 of 14 while the Tomcats 
sank 23 of 31. There were four Tartans 
playing with four fouls and that was aftes 
Mike Wegener fouled out. Thiel only 
committed 6 fouls in the second half.
The last three games of December 
before finals break will be on the road. The 
Tartans take on Case December fifth, 
Oberlin on the eighth, and Bethany on 
December tenth. They have not won an 
away game since the 1969-70 season. That 
includes 42 straight losses on the road.. 
Sooner or later the percentages are going to 
have to catch ud.
truly love the sport. But what is it about 
the sport that is so attractive?
Unlike team sports (basketball, football, 
etc.), a wrestling match is a succession of 
individual contests. An individual wrestler 
has no one but himself to depend on once 
he is face to face with his opponent. 
Wrestling involves a great deal of concen
tration, psychology, quick thinking and of 
course, speedy reflexes. It is an art, it is a 
discipline, and this is what attracts 
wrestlers. It is also what scares away 
potential wrestlers. There are a great many 
people who have the natural ability to 
wrestle, an ability that others work years 
to master, and are simply afraid of the 
concentration, the power, and the inde
pendence involved in college wrestling. All 
in all. it takes guts.
And so tomorrow. Coach Paul Steva will 
pick out ten wrestlers from the Tartans 
small 1 5 man squad to face the Duquesne 
Dukes. Dont expect to see Seven Sexy 
Cheerleaders screaming GO TEAM GO. 
You can expect to see 20 serious 
individuals quietly concentrating and 
exerting, putting out \007f for 8 minutes 
at a time, silently saying to themselves. I 
know I can.
Radio station WWSW recently lacj some erudite and pithy com
mentary on Carnegie-Mellon Universitys football program.
Newscaster Donna LaPietra and sportscasters Greg Benedetti and 
Bob Coppler were heard to hold a conversation in which the following 
points came Lip: that C-MU knows when to start their football games 
when 3 or 4 ( or a very similar number) people show up; and that when 
C-MU wins a football game they all go back to the engineering labs and 
build a model of the Sixth Street Bridge with their tinker toys.
Well, it's at least funny, isnt it?
We are not amused. For one thing, the Sixth Street Bridge is 
downtown. They'd probably build a model of the Brady Street Bridge, or 
at least Washington Crossing. Duquesne might build the Sixth Street 
Bridge if they won the national basketball title.
Another thing is that the reason only 3 or 4 people come to C-MU 
ballgames is because the rest are all back in their rooms listening to 
WWSW.
All kidding aside. These newsmen should recognize their respon
sibility to the institutions of the city they serve. This includes athletic 
teams, regardless of drawing power or national prestige.
This year the Tartans recruited more than 30 freshmen of influence, 
in hopes of creating a more exciting and winning team. Anyone who 
followed the Tartans this season knows they did both. They can boast a 
5-3 record and a fourth place tie in an eight team conference. One of their 
home games was 10-0 domination of the second place team in the PAC. 
Their other two home contests were thrilling 21-13 and 14-13 wins. In 
addition the Tartans never failed to draw a big, excited crowd.
Would you believe the Homestead High-Level Bridge?
Jeff R. Englund
Wrestling Starts
Paul Hamerly (50) grabs a rebound between Thiel's Fleischer (45) and Fletcher (43).
Photo by Rose
by Roger Geddes
The rejuvenated Tartan basketball team, 
striving to lift the C-MU basketball pro
gram to a level of respectability, played 
well in their season opener only to come 
out in the losing end of a 59-49 decision to 
the Thiel Tomcats.
The game started out with Thiel jump
ing to a quick 6-0 lead, but CarnegieMellons four freshmen and captain Mike 
Wegener caught up and finally took a 28-27 
lead, the only lead the Tartans had in the 
game. The half time score ended in a 
tie28-28. Through the second half the 
score was close and at one point it 
remained tied for almost 3 minutes at 
42-42. Then Mark Fleischer of Thiel, last 
years PAC leading rebounder and second 
leading scorer, put in six unanswered 
points to pull Thiel out of a tight game. 
Fleisher ended the game with 14 points 
and 14 rebounds.
Three Tartans shot their way into 
double figures with Greg Chambers leading 
them with 11 points and 10 rebounds. 
Mike Wegener and Dan Jason each had 10 
points. At times Coach Rudy Yaksich 
had five freshmen playing against four 
seniors and a junior, all of whom are lettermen for Thiel. The inexperienced Tartans 
did make some mistakes but played very 
well for the first time together in a game. 
Although C-MU beat Thiel for their only 
win last year, this year the Tomcats will 
prove to be one of the leading contenders

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN Tftsday, December 4?r#73^Tage 21 n
TARTANS CRUSH GANNON
by Mary Kay Burak
* The CMU Hockey Club trounced Gan
non College, 4-i, in an exhibition game on
0 Saturday, November 17 at the Sewickley 
Arena. This victory was the Tartans first 
over Gannon, but they had the opposition 
clearly outclassed. It was not a very violent 
game, as only two players got penalties. 
But the Tartans skill; at skating, playing 
and scoring, still made it an exciting game 
to watch.
Roger Peterson got a hat-trick, 
^ scoring three of CMlTs four goals. Team
mate Matt Goldsmith responded by throw
ing his helmet on the ice (a traditional 
gesture of spectator appreciation for three 
goals by one player). In the first period, 
Peterson had assists from Tom Grimm and 
Rich Herlich on his first goal and from Joe 
Graves on the second. Grimm also lent a
hand on Petersons third period goal.
Peter Davis, unassisted, scored for CMU 
early in the second period. Greg Gorny of 
Gannon College also scored this period 
with a slap shot from outside the blue line. 
Goalie Jeff Hart appeared to have this shot 
blocked way ahead of time, but evidently 
he let the puck slide through. Overall, CMU 
made 45 shots on goal to Gannons 21.
The three point lead in the third period 
gave Frank Sciulli a chance to play goalie 
for the Tartans. Other new Tartan skaters 
also got some actual game experience-one 
of the nice points about exhibition games.
The Tartans will play two more games 
this semester: against St. Vincents, Wed
nesday, December 5 at Sewickley, and 
against Pitt, Sunday, December 9 at the 
Civic Arena. Tickets (SI.00 with a student 
ID) can be purchased for both games at the 
Skibo Information Desk.
Roger Peterson (6) and Tom Grimm (20) show the teamwork which resulted in 2 Tartan goals.
Photo by Mary Kay Burak
Sports
)y Mary Jo Chabala
The womens intercollegiate volleyball 
quad travelled to Indiana University on 
Wednesday, November 14. The first and 
econd teams were both defeated, losing 
#>ir First two games 15-4, 15-11 and 15-8, 
15-9. The absence of Nancy Perlman, the 
etter on the first team, was a big factor in 
he first teams loss.
The first six women of the volleyball 
;quad went to California Stu'e College on
RESEARCH
$2 PER PAGE 
FREE CATALOG
Our up-to-date mail order catalog listing thousands of topics is available absolutely freewe'll even pay the postage! Delivery takes 1 to 2 days. Write
NATL RESEARCH BANK
420 No Palm Or Bev Hills. Cat 90210 
TELEPH0NC (213) 271 5439 
Material is sold for 
research purposes only
Liberated
Saturday, November 17 for a volleyball 
sports day. Thirteen schools participated in. 
the match. CMU won six out of twelve 
matches, improving greatly as the day pro
gressed.
The fencing team went to Penn State 
College (Fayette Campus) on Thursday, 
November 15 for a tri-fencing meet with 
Penn State College and California State 
College. The CMU women defeated PSC 
6-2 and tied with CSC.
RUGS
forless
with your ID Card 9x12s $15, $19, $29, $39 also 6x9s, 12x12s, 12x15s
Also wall tapestries, Indian rugs 
furry rug< and berUpreads. Low 
price oriental rugs in rrany siies. 
ASK ABOUT DISCOUNT FURNITURE 
b 11 m f  5426 Walnutvn Ait j Shadyside
10 a m. . I p.m. Sat. 'til 5 
For directions call 42i-1025
Goalie Jeff Hart dashes - once again - hopes of a Gannon goal.
Photo by Mary Kay Burak
Baseball's New Frontier
by Glenn Campbell
In baseball history the years preceding 
1948 are akin to the Stone Age. It was a 
period in which the alleged national 
pasttime wasnt quite legit. The game 
completely closed its eyes to a portion of 
the population whom it decided would 
harm the sport. In a country that was 
founded on the revolutionary maxim that 
all men are created equal this exclusion was 
just another cruel joke. In 1948 Branch 
Rickey brought Jackie Robinson to 
Brooklyn and baseball into the twentieth 
century.
Before this there was no written law 
forbidding blacks to play professional 
baseball. However there was a gentlemens 
agreement among the owners to exclude 
undesirables. In baseball parlance a 
gentleman is anybody who makes money 
but not waves.
In the 25 years since, blacks have 
dominated the game. Hank Aaron is but 
one home run away from the most 
immortal number in sport, Babe Ruths 
714. While constituting about a third of 
the players in the major leagues, blacks 
have a disproportionate number of star 
players. Willie Stargell, Reggie Jackson, 
Dick Allen; Cesar Cedeno, et al are 
baseballs major attractions. The majority 
of blacks are starters while most of the 
utility jobs go to whites. Its obvious that 
for a black player to make a team he cant 
be as good as a white player, he must be 
better.
While blacks have proven themselves on 
the field, they still havent had a chance to 
manage. The managers in baseball are a 
small majority that play musical chairs. Its 
not unusual for a manager to have two or 
three chances with different teams. But no
FREE Lessons 
With Purchase10%
Student Discoun'
owner has had the courage to name a black 
manager. Baseball owners conservatism is 
only slightly to the right of Barry 
Goldwater.
There is no scarcity of qualified men 
however. Maury Wills, Bill White and Willie 
Mays are names that come readily to mind. 
Generally considered the best prospect is 
Frank Robinson. He has managed four 
years in the Puerto Rican Winter League 
and has proven himself a winner. A number 
of players, both black and white, have said 
that Robinson has helped them improve as 
players. Robinson knows the game and 
youd be hardpressed to find someone 
wholl say he isnt qualified.
Baseball still has a chance. The Yankees 
are looking for a manager and since they 
see themselves as baseballs leader they 
might take the initiative. The World 
Champion Oakland As also have an 
opening with the resignation of Dick 
Williams. As owner Charles Finley is the 
closest thing to Branch Rickey among 
todays owners and with his Hair for the 
dramatic he might be the one to make 
baseball history.
The reason given by baseball men for 
not hiring a black manager is that he 
couldnt be fired without the owner being 
called a racist. The same arguments were 
made before Jackie Robinson and theyve 
all been shot down. The real reason a black 
hasnt been hired is a feared drop it 
attendance. But if the team is a winner the 
fans will come to the game. The people 
come to see the team, not the manager. 
Give a qualified black the chance to 
succeed or fail on his merits as a manager 
and the game will be better for having done 
so. Jackie Robinson brought baseball into 
the twentieth century but the game is still 
behind the thnes.
Harriet's House of 
^ iUES.- SAT. 11:30 5:30209 N. CRAIG ST.687 7472
" the friendly yarn shopTT

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22 - THE TARTAN - Tuesday. December 4. 1973
y t T5UT 1HT
SAE 
Wins A 
Lions Sh are
by Mike Pochan
The purple and gold fratmen of SAE 
flexed their collective muscle and captured 
both the intramural volleyball and intra
mural soccer major league titles during the 
three days before Thanksgiving break.
The six-man volleyball victory was ; 
repeat of last years performance wher 
SAE defeated the Muthers to take th< 
championship.
SAE bounced Feva-A 15-7. 14-16. 15-7 
in the semis and Beta-A in the finals, 15-5 
11-15. and 15-9. Beta-A upset Grad Wreck? 
15-13. 11-15. 15-7 to reach the finals. Ir 
the consolation match. Grad Wrecks beat 
Feva. 7-15. 15-8. 15-2.
Playing for SAE for were Tom Veitri. 
Frank Sacco, Jeff Hart. Mitchell Fried. 
Boris Pasternak. Wally Hrovath. and Ralph 
Kontra.
In soccer, the semifinals saw SAE, 5-0 in 
regular season, triumph over XDU (4-0-1) 
by a score of 3 to 0. The Powderkegs 
(3-0-2) slipped around GSIA (5-0) 3 to 2 in 
overtime. In the championship clash. SAE 
burnt the Powderkegs 2-0. both goals 
scored by Jim Lavin.
The SAE soccer roster included Mike 
Hill. Jeff Hart. Frank Sacco, Rob Meyer. 
Barry Ganek, Pete Davis. Mark Van 
Ollefen, G.D. Zipf, Bill Lombardo. Ted 
Schiffman, Tom Cianelli and Millhunk 
Pasternak.
In minor league volleyball action, Scrow 
scooped up the title by defeating the Red 
Riders, B.U.D.. and the Bearded Clams, 
who were runner-up.
Also, for those who are interested. Bob 
Atkinson and John Furjanic will represent 
C-MU in the first city college billards 
tournament to be held at Point Park 
College December 2 and 3.
9 Tartans Honored
Five Carnegie-Mellon football players 
made the all-Presidents Athletic Con
ference team, while another received an 
Honorable Mention.
Chosen as a freshman was quarterback 
Jay Duquette. Duquette, who alternated 
most of the year with freshman Ted 
Harhai. led the PAC with a completion 
percentage of .559. In seven PAC games he 
threw for 658 yards in 109 attempts, and 
had 6 touchdown passes, along with 7 
interceptions. In the last CMU game of the 
year versus Hiram College, Duquette 
played the whole game, hitting 17 of 32 
for two scores and a victory.
Senior wide receiver Brian Carlock was 
named at his position for the second connsecutive year. Carlock is one ot the 
leading pass catchers in CMU history, and 
has also been a fine punt returner. This 
year he led the PAC with 29 pass 
receptions. He averaged 9.45 yards on 11 
punt returns. His two touchdowns came on
a 75-yard punt runback against Case and a 
10-yard catch which won the Tartan's last 
game of the season against Hiram.
The other CMU offensive man named to 
the first team was guard John Moore. A 
senior, he earned his second letter this year 
in his third year with the team.
On defense, senior Mike Bralkowski, an 
Honorable Mention last year, was named at 
linebacker. The Tartan co-captain earned 
his fourth letter this year, picking off 2 
passes and recovering 3 fumbles in the pro
cess.
Ron Shinault, senior defensive back, was 
awarded his third letter this season. He 
intercepted 2 passes during the year and 
had many key tackles. Last year he left his 
normal post to do a fine job replacing 
CMUs injured starting quarterback.
Receiving Honorable Mention was 
senior running back John Radic. The 
former defensive back lettered for the third 
time. He was among the PAC scoring 
leaders with five touchdowns and was 
among the leaders in pass receiving. Radic
missed his last game as a senior with an 
injured knee.
In addition, two C-MU soccer players 
were named to the ALL-PAC team, while 
another received Honorable Mention.
Mike Smith, a senior fullback from 
Monongahela, had 12 points on 5 goals and 
2 assists this year, and was chosen for the 
ALLPAC team for the second year in a 
row. He was named the' Tartan MVP for 
the second consecutive year.
Dan Streyle, who plays mainly center 
halfback but who also saw some action at 
inside lineman, had 3 goals and an assist forg| 
7 points on the year. At one time during 
the season the junior from Glenshaw led 
the voting for the top PAC player. Last 
year he was an ALL-PAC Honorable 
Mention. He will be a co-captain next year.
All PAC Honorable Mention A1 Koblin, 
a senior from Baltimore who sat out last 
season, was the Tartans leading scorer with 
13 points on 5 goals and 3 assists. He paced 
the team in assists and tied with Smith as f 
the top goal scorer.
There's a special rate 
most airlines doni
If you re denied a seat on a flight for which you hold a confirmed reservation, and the airline can't get you on another flight scheduled to arrive within two hours of your originally scheduled arrival, you're entitled t^ mmediate compensation.The airline must give you your money back and an amount equal to the value of the first flight coupon on your ticket providing the coupon cost a minimum of S25 and a maximum of $200 In many cases fiat means double your money back.Deliberate overbooking is a deceptive practice used to insure a completely booked flight. If an airline does it to you ask for immediate compensation. If they refuse ask for a written explanation. And send it to the Civil Aeronautics Board in Washington. D C.Remember that, next time you have a hard time getting off the ground.
Sponsored by Aviation Consumer Action Project P.O. Box 19029 Washington. D.C. 20036
TV* * - . . 
:'T   -*
\ ,'r
WANTED - MALE and FEMALE
UNIT HEADS, SPECIALISTS, COUNSELORS
Jewish Community Centers Association 
a camp with a purpose 
in a setting of silent wilderness and incredible beauty
CAMP SABRA
In the Heart of the Magnificent Lake of the Ozarks 
IN PERSON INTERVIEWINGADVANTAGES
1. Opportunities for special training for 
Careers in camping, group work, and 
recreational field,
2. Excellent Working Conditions.
3 Better than Av^r-iQe Salary including 
annual increments.
December 24, 25 
10 a.m.
Bnai Brith Hillel 
315 S. Bellefield Ave.
Call Frances Hirsch 
6:30 to 9:00 p m
363-51
MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS
Age 18
One year of College 
Prefer former experience
For Application
JEWISH 'COMMUNITY CENTERS 
ASSOCIATION. Camp Sabra, 11001 
Schietz Road, S. . nu  Mo. 63141 
{3i4> 432-570C -
For an Appoii

---------------------------------------------------

THE TARTAN - Tuesday, December 4, 1973 - Page 23
The Court Maaidan and his court
by Jeff Englund
He was a self-designated showboat in 
Carnegie Techs long line of basketball 
tugs. While setting most of the schools 
scoring records of consequence and playing 
on with one of the greatest foursomes ever 
to take the court for Tech, his team saw 
only one above average season. Now the 
University of Pittsburgh has his services as 
a professor of metallurgy. His name is Bill 
Soffa.
Bill grew up in the Pittsburgh suburb of 
West Mifflin. Though its hard to believe 
f now, in the late fifties the town had no 
high school (it presently has two). Soffa 
attended nearby Duquesne High School, 
where he made the all-WPIAL basketball 
squad.
North Carolina State, Duke, and 
Columbia were a few of the teams who 
solicited Bills talents after graduation. He 
turned them all down, though, in favor of 
( Carnegie Institute of Technology. His
reason?
Techs academic tradition, Soffa said.
In 1957-58 Bill Soffa started as a 
freshman. Surprisingly, his first year was 
his finest personally He averaged 19.1 
ppg., while hitting 43.8% of his field goal 
attempts and 80.4% of his free throws. His 
144 successful foul shots established a
I school record which still stands. During a
16 game span Soffa scored 380 points, 
averaging 23.7 a game. The team, though, 
went only 13-10.
The following season saw Bill slip a bit 
from form, although an injury to his back, 
sustained early in the year, causing him to 
miss 5 games, probably had much to do 
with it. His field goal percentage jumped to 
44.6%, but free throw accuracy fell to
70.1% and points per game dropped to 
16*8. Tech finished 9-15.
1959-60, Bill Soffas junior year, was 
the finest season Head Coach Mel Cratsley, 
a fine player for Tech in the 1930s, had 
produced in his eleven year term. 
Percentage-wise only four better records at 
that time showed in the colleges 52 year 
history. Rege Ebner, Director of Publicity 
at Carnegie-Mellon, thinks the 15-9 squad 
must have been the greatest ever.
That was a hell of a team, Ebner said. 
Playing against big-time schools like 
Duquesne, St. Francis, Pittsburgh and Penn 
State, and winning-it was undoubtedly the 
finest team Ive ever seen here.
The team averaged 111.5 points for the 
first two games, and jumped to 3-0. They 
only suffered defeat at the hands of Pitt 
(2), St. Francis, Penn State (2), St. 
Vincent, Westminster (2) and Indiana State 
(by a one point margin). Indiana was 
crushed by 27 points in the season opener 
and Slippery Rock was beaten twice, 
including a 119-116 victory that 
established the Tech mark for points by 
both teams. The Tartans also registered 
wins of 19, 26, 27, and 30 points.
All the above facts look pale, though, 
compared with the 2 victories the team 
racked up against the mighty Iron Dukes of 
Duquesne that year. Bill Soffa told about 
the first contest.
I was no hero in that one. The rest of 
the team built up about a ten point lead, 
but I almost blew it being fancy-I think I 
threw the ball awa four times. 1 did 
become sort of a pseudo-hero, though, 
when I sank 2 foul shots to ice the game.
The Dukes went down by six points. 
Thinking it was a fluke, they entered the 
second meeting looking to slaughter the
Tartans. They were half right. It was a 
slaughter.
Carnegie Tech won going away, 83-75. 
Said Rege Ebner:
We humiliated them.
Bill Soffa had an outstanding year. He 
equalled his free throw standard of 144, set 
the Tech all-time scoring record of .454 
points in a season, averaged 18.9 ppg., and 
grabbed his highest total of rebounds ever, 
79.
Soffas teammates had seasons which 
complimented his and made the stellar 
team record possible. Mike Flynn scored 
310 points and averaged 12.9 per game. 
Fred Williams was the most valuable sixth 
man in the district and practically singlehandedly won two games with his last 
quarter heroics. Center Andy Komer, at 
63, pulled down an incredible 315 re
bounds and scored 10.3 points a contest 
(his career totals were 1069 rebounds and 
1110 points).
Though all four returned in 1960, along 
with fine player George Frazier, to give the 
Tartans one of their best starting fives ever, 
a disappointing 11-12 was the result. An 
injury to Frazier, plus the lack of an ade
quate bench, cuased the downfall. For the 
first time, Bill Soffa did not lead the squad 
in ppg. He had 16.4, compared with 
Flynns 16.6.
Going into the 1973-74 season Bill 
Soffa holds 6 Carnegie-Mellon scoring 
record. He owns the point scoring marks 
for career, season, and game. His 43-point 
outburst against Indiana State in his 
freshman year established the game record. 
The giant-killing season of 1959-1960 
witnessed 454 Soffa points, eclipsing his 
previous record of 420.
Throughout his four unforgetable years 
at Tech, Bill Soffa was responsible for a 
total of 1571markers for a per game average 
of 17.8.
All the foul-shooting records are also 
held by Soffa. He twice threw in 144 in a 
season, hit 21 against the Pitt Panthers in 
1957-58, and rolled up 491 in his career.
During or after his final term Soffa 
received a letter from the Chicago franchise 
of the defunct American Basketball 
League, asking whether hed be interested 
in a tryout.
I couldnt see wasting my time and 
theirs, said Bill. I wasnt tall enough, and
I just didnt know if I was the right 
material.
Bill attained his masters and doctorate 
degrees in metallurgy and accepted an 
appointment at the University of Pitts
burgh. He is married and has 2 children. 
Mrs. Soffa teaches at Pitt while working on 
her doctorate in computer science.
Next time you see 
someone polluting 
point tout.
Its litter in the streets. Its air that smells. 
Its a river where fish cant breathe.
You know what pollution is.
But not everyone does.
So the next time you see pollution, 
dont close your eyes to it.
Write a letter Make a call. Point it out 
to someone who can do something about it
BILL SOFFA
THE FINEST PLAYER 
CMU HAS EVER SEEN
Perhaps the best way to finish is to 
listen to Rege Ebner, who has seen a lot of 
athletes and knows a lot about the rest.
Bill Soffa was certainly the finest 
player Tech has ever seen.

Mike Flynn
Andy Komer
Fred Williams

---------------------------------------------------

Page 24  THE TARTAN  Tuesday, December 4, 1973
The only jobs 
for which no man 
is qualified
are human incubator 
and wet nurse.
The only job ^ 
for which no woman 
is qualified 
is sperm donor.
Wilma Scott Heide
President, National Organization of Women
December 8
Saturday
8:30pm
Skibo Ballroom
'Admission Free with Carnegie-Mellon University 
Student ID
Sponsored by the Carnegie-Mellon University \
Activities Board
.k
