tech
ivi
Volume 65 - Number 15Wednesday, February 9, 1966
Fights Break Out 
At Valentines Dance
Saturday night a series of disturbances occurred 
in and around the Carnegie Tech Campus. The incident 
triggering the disturbances was a fight which broke 
out at a dance being held in the Skibo Wherrett Room.
The dance, a Valentine party,
was being held by the Lambdas, 
a group from Westinghouse High 
School who had previously used 
Skibo facilities. The principal of 
Westinghouse High School term
ed the Lambdas or the Lambda 
Theta Phis as they are also known 
as an outlaw sorority. Accord
ing to Laverne Davis, a member of 
the group, the incident started 
when crashers arrived at the 
dance. The disturbance grew until 
further campus security guards 
were summoned by the lone guard 
on duty watching the display in the 
lobby. A fight broke out between 
the uninvited guests and the group 
members. TTie lights were turn
ed up in the Wherrett Room and 
for a time the group was control
led by herding them into the Wher
rett Room which they had contract
ed for the dance. This was done 
not only to sort the guests from 
the crashers but also to prevent 
the group from disturbing the Chi
nese Club which was meeting in the 
Ballroom. However, the lower 
halls in Skibo remained crowded, 
mostly with the uninvited guests.
On several occasions the sug
gestion was made that the secu
rity police summon additional help 
from the Pittsburgh Police who 
would be better qualified to cope 
with the situation both by sheer 
numbers and by virtue of previous 
experience. TTie suggestion was 
made on the part of the chaperon
es for the dance. However, the 
campus police continued in the be
lief they could quell the distur
bance. Such was not the case. The 
campus police, indeed might have 
been able to contain the trouble, 
if they had asserted themselves 
more and if they had not had to 
refer back constantly to headquar
ters for advice. Furthermore, they 
stated that really they could not 
ask people to leave a room which 
they had rented.
Finally the campus police agreed 
that the best thing to do would be to 
summon the Pittsburgh Police. 
Meanwhile the dance was stopped 
and the guests asked to leave 
Skibo. The group for the most 
part complied. However, some ma
naged to get into the snackbar
Fine Arts Plans 
Beaux Arts Ball
A Beaux Arts Ball for Fine Arts 
students, faculty members, and 
their guests will be held on March
19 in the main hall of the Fine 
Arts Building.
The planning committee of Su
per Ball h*s promised that: na
tionally known rock n roll artists 
will provide dance music; a stu
dent comedy skit will be present
ed (along with other student - 
produced surprises); and there will 
be a Grand March with trophies 
awarded for best costumes.
The theme of Super Ball is 
Pop or OP art, and all costumes 
should reflect this. Hopefully, not 
too many people will come as Bat
man, committee members say.
Tickets costing $5 per per
son will go on sale this week in 
the basement of the Fine Arts 
Building.
where they proceeded to help them
selves to food from behind the 
counter as well as the silverware.
The recently erected architectu
ral display in Skibo was overturn
ed when another fight erupted in 
lobby. Afterwards it was discov
ered that several items had been 
stolen from members of the Chi
nese Club and from the Lambdas 
themselves.
The exact sequence of the events 
that followed is not clear. However, 
according to most reports, some of 
those who were at the dance went 
across into the fraternity and wom
ens dormitory area. Fights broke 
out between crashers and some of 
the fraternity men and fights broke 
out amongst the crashers them
selves. More police were summon
ed from the Special Service which 
included the K-9 corps. At the 
height of the disturbances police 
were on duty from the Oakland, 
Hill, and Squirrel Hill Precincts. 
According to the police no arrests 
were made. The disturbance caus
ed the housemothers to close the 
Morewood lobby to dates early.
One injury has come to light. 
That was a brick abrasion to Rich
ard Lyles, junior, civil engineer
ing, who was treated and released 
at Shadyside Hospital.
The Pittsburgh Police continued 
to patrol the Shadyside and Oak
land areas for about an hour to in
sure no further outbreaks of vio
lence. The campus police, sporting 
night sticks, patrolled the Carnegie 
Tech campus.
IM Offers New Options; 
Double Majors Instituted
A number of changes in the Carnegie Tech curriculum will go into effect 
in September 1966. These will include new options in the Department of In
dustrial Management (to be renamed the Department of Administration and 
Management) and double majors for students in mathematics and physics.
Birch Official 
To Speak, 
Show Film
Louis T. Byers, Area 
Coordinator for Western 
Pennsylvania for the John 
Birch Society, will speak 
at Carnegie Tech on Tues
day, February 15, at 7:30 
p.m. in Sidbo Wherret 
Room. The official pre
sentation movie of the 
Birch Society will also be 
shown.
Byers is a Korean War veteran 
and was affiliated with Army Secu
rity Agency in Signal Intelligence. 
Before he was appointed to his 
present position he was sales ma
nager for Durkee Famous Foods 
and was a salesman for the H.J. 
Heinz Company in Philadelphia.
A long-time conservative, he is a 
great admirer of the late Senator 
Joseph McCarthy. He joined the 
John Birch Society in 1962 and 
became a full - time member of the 
staff a year ago.
His appearance at Carnegie Tech 
is being sponsored by the Tartan. 
Columnist James Panepinto has 
organized the program.
techMMc oMMr Libr oMa
Tech Men Choose Candidate 
For Press Cover Girl Contest
Carnegie Tech students will se
lect their candidate for the annual 
Pittsburgh Press Roto Magazine 
Campus Cover Girl Contest this 
Friday.
The women of Morewood Gar
dens have selected four cover 
girl nominees whose pictures ap
pear on page three of this issue. 
All male students will have an 
opportunity to select one of these 
girls as the Carnegie Tech can
didate, during campus-wide se
lections to be held this Friday. 
Alpha Phi Omega will conduct 
the balloting all day Friday at 
voting booths in Baker Hall and 
Skibo.
The photograph of the winning 
nominee, who will be announced 
in the next issue of the Tartan,
will appear with those of other 
schools candidates in Roto Ma
gazine, the Pittsburgh Press Sun
day supplement magazine, on 
March 13. Judges will meet the 
following week to select five fi
nalists who will be the guests of 
the Pittsburgh Press at a dinner 
and show on Friday, March 25, 
and luncheon on Saturday.
tblEd uaadeanEaD
WRCT will hold open audition 
tests for radio announcing this 
coming Saturday, February 12 
starting at 10 a.m. Anyone finding 
this scheduled time inconvenient 
should contact Sandy Skalka at 
either 682-8823 or 621-9728.
jis Hs wekCdil OrMUMi BEII 
lEcnecc hEc CEicr kMbiAc MPT
RMiEManMc bc SbiaMDEM NMnh 
RiMcElMar Ea ba blliMcc YMCdiM 
rhM crelMar Ydlk da NeMclbkG 
LMYiebik 42 br 441-5 bs6s Ea 
rhM YbIIidd6s
Rush Schedule
Today, February 9, for
mal dinner, 5 p.m. to 7:30 
p.m. Thursday, February 
10, formal dinner, 5p.m. to 
7:30 p.m. Saturday, Febru
ary 12, informal party, 8:30 
p.m. to 1 a.m. Monday, 
February 14, pledging.
Council Says 
Finals Stay
The Administrative Council, 
which some time ago created the 
Calendar Committee to revise 
Carnegie Techs academic sched
ule, met on Monday to discuss the 
calendar for the next two years.
Two plans were discussed, both 
of which would eliminate a formal 
finals period after a transitional 
year.
The favored plan, Option A, as 
originally designated would in
volve:
1. An early start  registra
tion immediately after Labor Day.
2. Classes in the first term run
ning up to Christmas with no break 
except Thanksgiving and no formal 
examination period.
3. Christmas as a between - 
term break and a two-week Spring 
vacation near Easter.
4. Classes ending in early May 
(the second week).
However, because of strong feel
ing by some faculty members from 
E&S and MMCC in particular  
about the importance of a formal 
examination period, the commit
tee has chosen to revise its plan.
In its revised plan it will at
tempt to incorporate an optional 
final exams. If adopted in 1966- 
67, this plan would call for Au
gust 29 registration; December 
15-21 finals period; December 22 
through January 8, Christmas va
cation; March 18 through April 2, 
Spring vacation; May 1-7, Spring 
Carnival; and May 15-19; final 
exams.
In addition to the present in
dustrial management courses this 
years freshmen in engineering and 
science will be permitted to elect 
a minimum of five courses from 
an optional field. The present porgram will be continued as the In
dustrial Management option, to 
which will be added options in 
mathematics, psychology, compu
ter science, economics, English, 
literature, history and writing.
The I.M. option will include, 
and the new options will exclude 
the following courses: second year 
physics, elements of mechanical 
engineering IA, and electrical en
gineer ing.Together with the free 
elective now available in the jun
ior year, this will make room for 
five semester courses in the new 
optional fields. Programs which 
cross option lines will be per
mitted, upon special request.
OMM 9lErdiEbIG FbDM K!
According to Dr. Myron L. 
Joseph, department head, when ad
vanced analytical management 
techniques first evolved they were 
used primarily in production and 
manufacturing. Largely as a result 
of this the management program 
was tightly matched with engineer
ing. Over the years analytical 
management has spread to other 
sectors of the economy (finance, 
organization planning, banking, ad
vertising and distribution) as a 
result balances other than en
gineering are reasonable.
More Liberal Education 
Says E.R. Schatz, vice presi
dent of academic affairs: It is 
fflt that the changes will attract 
superior students with analytical 
ability and an interest in manage
ment science, but who are not 
necessarily interested in an en
gineering background.
In Dr. Josephs opinion; The 
program will permit undergradu
ate students to make further use 
of the resources of Carnegie Tech 
than is possible at the present 
time, will provide more flexibil
ity to meet the needs of indivi
dual students and will stimulate 
increased faculty interest in un
dergraduate education ... It will 
provide a more liberal education. 
I like the kind of education 
that the new program represents, 
he says, and hope that educa
tion at Carnegie Tech will move 
further in the same direction. 
The departments name was 
changed in view of the curriculum 
changes. It was felt that the title 
of Industrial management was too 
narrow. As concluded by members 
of the department, the GSIA faculty 
and the Academic Affairs Com
mittee: The phrase 'management 
science is well known and has an 
accepted connotation in the bus
iness world. Use of the word 
'administration indicates that the 
curricula of the department is not 
restricted, but is adapted to train 
students in the broader aspects of 
modern administration.*
Double Majors 
Double major programs will lead 
to bachelor of science degrees in 
mathematics and English o( hisContinued on Page C

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, February 9, 1966
Odeal Cr
The New Jewish Epic
Howard Lasnik
If one were to attempt to create anew Jewish epic, I suppose it is al
most inevitable that the result would be even more presumptuous than. 
Exodus. Judith begins with music reminiscent of Exodus and ends with 
battle scenes suggestive of The Longest Day. But somewhere in between, 
the plot is absolutely buried, for it is too flimsy to support the vast size 
of the cinemascope spectacle.
All of the problems of the film are those of proportion. Wide-screen, 
does show us the panorama of the Israeli countryside, but no more ef
fectively than tasteful small screen would have done and cinema
scope in several instances is a distinct hindrance to necessary focus
ing on details.
Further, the plot is similarly lacking in proper proportion. Trivia 
are magnified and given far more significance than they deserve. Cto 
the other hand, without these inequities of emphasis, the plot would 
probably collapse altogether, as it nearly does. And finally, Sophia 
Loren, in the title role, tries not so much to transcend her part as to 
burst out of it (as she tries, seemingly, to burst out of her clothes\
The movie begins as Israel is about to emerge as an independent 
state. Tbe Arabs, however, are greedily awaiting the withdrawal of 
British troops. For under the supervision of Nazi war criminal, Gus
tave Schiller, the enemies of a Jewish Israel have amassed tanks and. 
troops in preparation for a complete victory. Judith is smuggled into 
Israel, for she had been Schiller's wife. Because she is Jewish she had! 
been laced in a concentration camp and her son was murdered, both 
at the hands of Schiller. Now, desperate for revenge, she is willing to 
help the Israeli's as she is, for some inexplicable reason, the only per
son able to identify Schiller. When he is found, he will be kidnapped 
and interrogated as to the nature of the Arab plans.
From this point on, however, the logical development of the plot is 
lost. Schiller is not living under cover so finding him should not be 
a difficult matter, and the efficient spy network of the Jews should 
certainly be able to ascertain his identity. Amid some confusion  
perhaps her son is not dead after all  Judith threatens Schiller with 
death and obtains the necessary information, just as the Arabs are 
launching their attack.
Within the framework of this improbable plot, the character of Judith 
is the least credible of all. Tbe part is nearly impossible: for Miss 
Loren, it is impossible. She is far more effective at displaying her 
legs than at displaying believable emotions. TTie remainder of the cast, 
especially Peter Finch, as leader of a kibbutz, turn in competent per
formances.
yuN HutF9t 
uvv ytWOHF 
OealbkG LMYs 4-G 4||
tMlBddl odrdi HdrMIG 
bagcUEIIM tddl 
mNH9 j9p9Fo9?N L uvv 
Lto wOF9 Z9Om
oecEnbI ydigchdR CMbreiEaD 
wtu tOW. O?w9tO 
O??. bal NH9 Ft9o9t9O
BErh
NH9 yuN HutF9t fZ?N9N 
abiibrMl Yk
jts ouZtS9 u?9.G
oecEn jMRrs SN
ydigchdR '1-5 
jEaaMi jiEagc jbanEaD | , 45 Fsos
TIME INC.
Sb6Rec tMRiMcMarbrEUM 
Cdi 4||
u RdcErEda Ec adB dRMa da kdei 
nb6Recs u NE6M ans ndIIMDM
iMRiMcMarbrEUM da b c6bII di 
6MlEe6!cExMl nb6Rec nba MPRMnr 
rd Mbia ;055 rd ;'25 Ea nd6T
6EccEdac baaebIIk cMIIEaD ceYT
cniERrEdac rd No9G L9G 
OFtNO ZONtuN9j bal 
LtNZ?9 br iMlenMl crelMarc% 
bal Mlenbrdi ibrMcs a IbiDMi 
nb6RecMcG 6bak dC dei iMRiMcMarbT
rEUMc Mbia dUMi ;'25 b kMbis NhMk 
Bdig hbilG dC ndeicMG Yer rhMEi 
hdeic biM rhMEi dBaG bal rhMk 
DbEa UbIebYIM YecEaMcc MPRMiEManM 
Ea rhEc kMbi!ideal 6bigMrEaD RidT
Dib6s OMal ab6M bal blliMccG 
ndIIMDMG nIbcc bal bak drhMi 
EaCdi6brEda kde ndacElMi E6Rdirbar 
rd NE6M ansG SdIIMDM eiMbeG 
No9 q L9 eEIlEaDG tdngMT
CMIIMi SMarMiG ?MB .dig SErk 
45505s uII bRRIEnbrEdac 6ecr YM 
ceY6ErrMl Yk obinh 4G 4||s
.de BEII YM ndarbnrMl Rid6RrIks
S
tranH|(-!|0 90
WHSCH COWWMw ^ 
r*** JOHN SlURGtS
QryZ9ZZy 
- TRAIL
COLUMBIA PICTURES
m:eouIM66db 
yumjjuni
IN YUMMY COLOR
TYPING
tech  MttoroMLh 
i bMecaLelEM i
NMi6 FbRMic , NhMcMc , jEcT
cMirbrEdac , FeanrebrEdac , 
ORMIIEaD , wib66bi SdiiMnrMls
AFCO ENTERPRISES
CALL 421-1456
9IMnriEn NkRMBiErMic ZcMl 
9PnIec EUMIk
Festival Offers 
Music Awards
Entries are now being accepted 
for the fifth annual Carnegie 
Awards Festival to be held by 
the Carnegie Tech College of Fine 
Arts, on April 29 and 30.
The festival will feature 99 clas
ses of competition for voice and in
strumental soloists, instrumental, 
ensemble, orchestra, band, cho
rus, and a special section in dance
Closing date for entries is Fri
day, April 16.
Cash awards, certificates, cups 
and trophies will be awarded to 
those judged outstanding at the 
Carnegie Awards Festival Con
cert of Award Winners, which, 
will be held at 8 p.m. on Wed
nesday, May 18, in Carnegie Mu
sic Hall.
Entry blanks and additional in
formation may be obtained from 
Mr. Philip B. Catelinet, execu
tive secretary, Carnegie Awards 
Festival, Carnegie Institute of 
Technology, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213.,
1965 WAS The y EAR 
of The puSsyCAT
1966ISTHE YEAR OF THE DUCK!
trantr 
HXrLnaDS
dDucJ
HN HCT aF PUnr HttnrSSIaN
yKOH Mv-nOWAll lUt Wt LOtech AUHIM| MAKIIN Wt SI
HUM G0l>ON 
r UNITED ARTISTS
NOW
SHOWING
I/
the MOCION PICTURE With SOMETHING TO OFFEAID EVERYONE !!
Metro GoldwynMtyer ud Filawtys 1 
Marti* RaaatboTs Product
ROBERT JONATHAN MORSE WINTERS ANJANETTE COMER
Dm Aadrm  Mihon Berle  Jaatt Coburn John Gidgad 
Tab Heater  Muguet Leighton  liberate Roddy McDowaO 
Rohut Moriey - Barban Nichols Lioael StaaderiROD STEIGER. w
" ScnrMfU] kf Terry Southern u4 Christopher Uherwood
Dined kiToay Riekudsoa --------------------------------------
lb, Job Galley Haskell Wexler
non .-THE MAN WHO MADE "TOM JONES"!
thWeek
WhatsDoing Or Campus?
VVVVVVVVVVYk NEad 9arMEI VVVVVV
Today
11:30 a.m. and 12:30 p.m. Mass, 
Skibo Room 39.
4:00 p.m. Swimming, Tech vs. 
Allegheny, Home.
4:30 p.m. Film on Bermuda, Ski
bo Wherrett Room.
4:30 to 5:30 p.m. Delta Skull,
Skibo Room 56.
8:00 p.m. Concert in the Round, 
Skibo Ballroom.
9:00 p.m. Concert-in-the-Round, 
Skibo Highlander Room. Exhi
bition of the Architecture of Al
var Aalto, Monday through Fri
day, 9' a.m. to noon, 1 to 4 p.m. 
Hewlett Gallery.
Thursday
11:30 and 12:30 p.m. Mass, Ski
bo Room 39.
4:30. 7:00 and 9:30 p.m. Film 
Arts, Hallelujah the Hills, 
Porter Hall Room 100.
4:30 p.m. Pipe Corps, SKIBO Room 
200.
5:45 to 7 p.m. KKG Meeting, Ski
bo Room 39.
7 to 9 p.m. PhiO Meeting, Skibo 
Room 40.
8:15 p.m. Basketball, Tech vs. 
Pitt, Home
Friday
11:30 a*m. and 12:30 p.m. Mass. 
Skibo Room 39.
6:30 p.m. Tech Christian Fellow
ship. Skibo Room 39.
7 p.m. Rifle, Tech vs. Geneva, 
Home.
7:30 to 10 p.m. To Kill a Mock
ingbird/ Porter Hall 
YMCA Members; 25$, non - 
members: 50<?.
8:30 p.m. Wine and Cheese Par
ty, International Club, Mudge.
Continued on Page 4
Pkubmrgk Pini Fine Jeweler* Since 1832
Exclusive at fohert
DIAMOND RINGS
SERENITYLto ;455
u jEb6dal OdIbrbEiM rhbr hbc ba E6Rdirbar Iddgs NhM lEb6dal cMrc 
hEDh da b rbRRMiMl RidaD DEUEaD 6bPE6e6 YiIIIbanM bal CEiM
JaHN NI nalif KIS MH <
Pittsburgh429 Wood St.
Mt. Lebanon--731 Washington Road 
East Hills Shopping Center
FILM ARTS SOCIETY
THE PLAYBOY 
PHILOSOPHY
THEMOST
WINNER GOLD DUCATE 
Manheim Film Festival
PRIZE WINNER
San Francisco Film Festival
NSW9NO upuu9 uN jt 
FdirMi HbII ! K1-5G '155G 1-5

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 9, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 3
TYPEWRITER
Sales  Rentals - Repairs
(HMrnH rXCHHNtr, INC.
3711 Forbes Ave. Pittsburgh, P. 15213
83-2181
Oakland*s Only Camera Store
Roto Contest Nominees
Fb6 eiDiMccFbeIb WbeCC6ba
dbaa ecrecgkSbidI yEIIEbil
Sentry ^reports 
good news (at last!) about 
car insurance savings 
for young men
If you're a man under 25, or have a son who 
is, you know what a big extra premium you pay 
for car insurance. Now, Sentry Insurance offers;
10% discount for young men who qualify as 
safe drivers. (This is in addition toSentrys 15% 
discount for driver education.
HOW TO QUALIFY
Young men under 25 qualify for the Sentry Preferred Youthful Driver Discount on the basis of a simple questionnaire that takes only about20 minutes. It is not a test of driving skill or knowledge. It is completely confidential. There is no penalty for young men who do not qualify for the extra discount.
x ACT NOW
For full details about the Sentry Preferred 
Youthful Driver examination, call or drop a card 
today.
J lookt oui 
for you
SENTRY. XflNSURANCE
Hardware Mutuals  Sentry Life
SEND TO:
SENTRY INSURANCE 
429 FOURTH AVE. 
PGH., PA. 15219
Send Me Facts On The Sentry Preferred 
Young Driver Test.
NAME..............................................AGE------------
ADDRESS...............................CITY...................
You (inlv know the half of it.
Our business no longer hangs by a fiber  cellulosic or otherwise. Far from it. Were 
researching, producing and marketing a rich range of products-chemicals, plastics, 
paints and coatings, forest products, petroleum and natural gas products, as well as a 
full family of man-made fibers all over the world.
Celanese sales growth, its hefty interests in chemicals and its hugely expanded foreign 
operations have already moved it into a big new class, said a CHEMICAL WEEK* 
special report.
During the 10 years prior to 1964, sales more than quadrupled, chalking up a growth 
rate more than six times that of all U. S. manufacturing industries. And the trend is 
stronger than ever, with corporate sales for 1965 estimated at 23% higher than last 
years record of $701 million.
What does this mean to you?
Since our future expansion depends on our continued ability to develop top-notch 
people, it is, after all, in our best interest to bring you along as fast as you can take it, 
and give you all the support you need  in your technical specialty or in management.
LETS MAKE A DATE. Give our college representative a chance to fill you in on 
more of the specifics. He will be on your campus within the next week or two arrange 
through your Placement Office to see him. If you miss our visit, drop a card indicating 
your major and work interest to: Supervisor of University Recruitment, Celanese 
Corporation, 522 Fifth Avenue, New York, N. Y. 10036.
ACCOUNTANTS, CHEMISTS, ChEs, MEs, PHYSICISTS Volum
* August 22, 1964, Special Report on Celanese Corporation of America. Reprints available.
CELANESE
CHEMICALS FIBERS PLASTICS COATINGS PETROLEUM FOREST PRODUCTS 
An Equal Opportunity Employer

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, February 9, 1966
9lErdiEbIc
Dynamic Curricula
On the front page of this issue appears a story 
concerning several modifications and innovations 
in certain parts of the Carnegie Tech curricula, 
to be implemented at the start of the next academic 
year. These changes include the introduction into the 
industrial management program of several options 
in diverse fields, and provide for the establishment 
of double major programs, in which students will have 
the opportunity to major simultaneously in both a scien
tific field and a branch of the humanities.
Many students at Carnegie Tech, notably in the Col
lege of Engineering and Science, have found their 
academic curricula far too inflexible, and those with 
wider interests have often been prevented by the rigid
ity of their programs from pursuing combinations of 
courses which bridge the gaps between the sciences 
and both the humanities and fine arts. Individuals 
who wish to acquire a broader education by making 
greater use of the excellent facilities and resources 
of this institution have had in the past little opportu
nity to extend their academic beyond the narrow con
fines of curricula with highly specific orientations.
Moreover, the fulfillment of Carnegie Techs po
tential for th drawing together upon common ground 
of the sciences, humanities, and arts is vital to the 
successful professional education of students. At his 
dinner address on the occasion of President Stevers 
inauguration, Dr. Julius A. Stratton, then president of 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology, asserted his 
. . . own deep conviction that in the higher educa
tion of scientists and engineers, the humanities must 
be brought into full partnership.* He stated, further
more, that . . . if institutions such as Carnegie and 
M.I.T. are to fulfill their responsibility for pro
fessional education . . . the humanities must be more 
than peripheral. They must become central to our 
endeavor. It is in this perspective of a truly profession 
al education that we must give them encouragement and 
support, and that they, in turn, must respond to this 
challenge.
In response to student desires, and cognizant of 
the challenge articulated by Dr. Stratton, the Academic 
Affairs Committee approved the curriculum changes 
described on page one. These new programs have 
considerable flexibility, allowing the student to diver
sify and at the same time, providing substantial free
dom in the choice of electives; moreover, in no way 
do these programs attenuate the high level of pro
fessional competence which is essential to the achieve
ment of success in the students field of specializa
tion.
These changes, of course, do not provide a totally 
comprehensive response to the problems associated 
with the closer integration of the sciences, humanities 
and arts; furthermore, they are restricted to only a 
few departments in the College of Engineering and 
Science and the Division of Humanities and Social 
Sciences. The establishment of these new academic 
opportunities, nonetheless, marks the beginning 
at Carnegie Tech of a vital trend toward meeting 
the challenge of broader professional education through 
the implementation of dynamic, imaginative curricula.
k carnegie techIIIIIIITARTAIMI
Richard G. Sextro 
Business Manager
Evan M. Melhado 
Editor-in-Chief 
Sue Attmson 
Desk Editor
News Editor..............................................................Canay Etkin
Sports Editor........................................................Michael Vargo
Layout Editor...................................................David P. Rodgers
Photography Editor...................................................Fred Maize
Assistant News Editor................................................. Liz Seley
National Advertising Manager...........................Diane Hayduk
Local Advertising Manager....................Edward A. Ketterer
Secretarial Editor.................................Judy Birken
Circulation Manager.......................................... Marty Kline
FiEarEaD FidlenrEda obabDMic1 jbUEl Ss WIMEaG HbiUMksus OhbREid
?MBc OrbCC1 elk SbiIcdaG MCC 9UbacG biik LbarbexxEG biik LiEMl6baG 
9IIMa MUEaM WMaaMrh erxG Nd6 oddiMG ShERRMi odagG 
FMDDk O6dIMaG tEnh OrMCCMacG HdBbil yMEccG OeM dha6MkMis
bkder OrbCC1 ShiEcrdRhMi widalbhIG beib OMElIMiG obinU OrMia 
FhdrdDibRhk OrbCC wMdiDM HearMiG jbUEl MbUErrG OeM dha6MkMi dha 
oMibG wdilda odiiEcG oEgM FMiMIG SbiMk yEarMics
ecEaMcc OrbCC1 biY idBaG YbiiEM Dinkins, SbidI NMb6ba 
SEineIbrEda OrbCC1 jMYYEM ualieccG Sb6EIIM bxDdaG ?bank biidas
pbIMiEM ybrrda 
FiEarMi%c Ebcda1 s 9s oEIIMi4
NkREcrc1 baMr ulIMiG jEbaM SechEaDG 96EIk LMiYMiG McIEM LibanMG ulMIM 
LiEMliEnhG OexbaaM WeaEG baMr tEllIMG terh Nhd6RcdaG ShiEcrbab 
Ud6 ObbIG OeM yMIIcs
A Job Well Done
The Tartan extends a vote of commendation to the 
brothers of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity for their 
outstanding job in organizing and coordinating the 
recent blood donor drive for American wounded in 
Vietnam. They made posters, duplicated notices, 
manned the registration tables, collected and alpha
betized the pledge cards, and helped with the blood 
donor equipment, which was so generously provided 
by the Central Blood Bank of Pittsburgh. The brothers 
of SAE were aided by girls from the Panhellenic 
Council who helped serve refreshments to the donors 
Their efforts achieved considerable success: 225 
pints of blood were donated by students on this cam
pus for a most worthy cause. To the brothers of 
SAE, again, congratulations for a job well done.
The Search 
For Understanding
Yk b6Mc FbaMREard
fl Welchs Society
Ralph Waldo Emerson once said 
that every mind must make its 
choice between truth and repose 
it cannot have both. Robert Welch, 
founder of the John Birch Socie
ty, considers Emerson the most 
profound of all Americans.*
Unfortunately, Welch has some 
what misinterpreted Emersons 
statement when Welch claims to 
bring truth instead of comfort to 
the American people. The truth 
is that unless we can reverse 
forces which now seem inexorable 
in their (Communist) movement, 
you have only a few more years 
before the country in which you 
live will become four separate 
provinces in a world-wide com
munist dominion ruled by policestate methods from the Kremlin."
In order to save the United 
States and the world from the 
communist conspiracy, Robert 
Welch founded the John Birch So
ciety, an educational organization, 
to spread the truth.
Welch arrives at his conclusion 
by an analysis of the facts. 
Welch seems to believe that if 
his arguments can be supported 
by historical facts, they are 
essarily true. Yet Welch has not 
bothered to consider all the 
available facts, and at times 
he has seemingly ignored por
tions of history which tend to con
tradict his ideas. Even if Welch 
could make a thorough analysis 
of the facts, one still would have 
reason to refute his ideas.
The facts that he deals with 
tend to be highly subjective ones, 
and they are extremely difficult 
to measure accurately. For ex
ample, one would be hard press
ed to estimate the extent of ComV *He-'*
' TOtN BIRCH SOCff
zUanOECEEDzMJNA
- OF 
Z?3s7
MorL
U&DECC 
RED PLOT?/
oeT
, Udik NdBri C DadibanM ,
munist infiltration in most coun
tries in the world. Yet Robert 
Welch has concluded that For
mosa, Jordan, Turkey, and threefourths of the United States are 
the only anti-communist areas left 
in the world today.
The facts that can be measured 
quantitatively, and which are cited 
by Welch, often come from unre
liable sources, or have no source 
at all except the mind (or mouth) 
of Robert Welch. One cannot accept 
any argument just because it can 
be supported by facts  the re
liability of the facts and the ex
tent to which they were gathered 
must be considered.
Welch's argument, elaborately 
supported by facts, has convin
ced hundreds of thousands of Ame
ricans to join the John Birch So
ciety. He now spreads fanatical 
right - wing propaganda under 
the disguise of the word truth.* 
All of the publications of the 
Birch Society and all of the li
terature they distribute have a 
highly conservative, sometimes 
reactionary, slant. These are opin
ions, poor ones at that, and it is a 
stretch of anyones imagination to 
call them truth. I find it somewhat 
distressing that so large a num
ber of people have readily accept
ed the ideas of Robert Welch.
A representative of the John 
Birch Society will speak on cam
pus within the next week. Anyone 
who places more than a superfi
cial value on the meaning of the 
word truth should be present to 
support the real meaning of the 
word.
Post Office Gives 
Summer Job Test
A nationwide competitive exa
mination has just been announced 
for temporary summer employ
ment in a number of larger post 
offices throughout the country.
The examination will be used 
to select the best qualified appli
cants for employment as season
al assistants between May 1 and 
September 30, 1966. Applications 
for the positions, which pay $2.37 
an hour, will be accepted through 
February 24. A written test tak
ing less than one hour will be 
held in March in over 1,000 cities.
Copies of the examination an
nouncement and application forms 
(Form 5000AB) may be obtained 
from offices of the U.S. Civil 
Service Commission and at many 
post offices.
uaaebI OeYcniERrEda tbrM1 ;0s25 
OMndal SIbcc FdcrbDM FbEl br FErrcYeiDhG Fbs
tMRiMcMarMl Cdi abrEdabI blUMirEcEaD Yk ?brEdabI ulUMirEcEaD ans
Offices: Skibo, Room 50, Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 
15213. Published weekly during the school year except 
during holidays and examination periods by the students 
of Ccmegie Institute of Technology.
Readers Write
OdIlEMic OMal Nhbagc 
Ldi Iddl jdabrEdac
Editor, the Tartan:
I would like to take this oppor
tunity, on behalf of the United 
States Army, and myself, to ex
tend my sincere thanks and appre
ciation for an outstanding job. The 
effort put forth by your fraternity 
during the recent drive for blood 
donations at Carnegie Tech deser
ves recognition, and praise of the 
highest degree. It should serve as 
an example to other schools and 
help prove to the public that all 
students are not of the caliber who 
burn draft cards.
I am sure the individuals in 
Vietnam, who receive this blood 
will be very grateful and appre
ciative of your efforts. Programs 
such as this can accomplish more 
good than can ever be imagined 
by anyone. ,
Again I say thanks for a job 
well done.
Anthony W. LaCaprucia 
Captain, Infantry
Editor, the Tartan
This is just a short note of 
thanks to everyone who donated 
blood to us recently. During the 
past seven months that Pve serv
ed in Vietnam, I have heard a 
lot about teach-ins, protest march
es, and draft card burnings, for 
awhile I was wondering whose 
side American students were on. 
But now, thanks to all of you, I 
know the college students are back 
ing us.
A number of my buddies have 
been wounded and they want to 
thank you, too. Pve been lucky, 
but Pm glad to know that the 
blood is ready should I ever need 
it.
Thank you. All of you make me 
proud to be an American and grate
ful as a fighting man of the United 
States.
Mike Curry 
Cpl/U. S. Marines
NhM OMneiErk CT
CEnM rMIMRhdaM MPT
rMacEda hbc YMMa 
nhbaDMl rd |||! 
NhM aEDhr IEaM 
BEII iM6bEa bc 621-2620.
Whats Doing
Continued from Page 2
Saturday
8:30 to 12 p.m. Horn Club. Ski
bo Room 46.
10 to 2 p.m. Folk Institute. Ski
bo Room 40.
Noon Scotch and Soda. Skibo Wherrett Room.
Noon Civil Rights Luncheon, Ski 
bo, Highlander Room.
12 noon Home Ec. Club. Skibo 
Ballroom.
7 to 11 p.m. Tech Christian Fel
lowship. Skibo Wherrett Room 
Highlander Room.
Ski Trip.
 a.m. and noon Mass, Skibo WheSunday
 a.m. and noon Mass, Skibo Wher
rett Room.
1 p.m. Scotch and Soda, Skibo 
Room 54.
Monday
' p.m. Mens Dorm Council Meet
ing Skibo Wherrett Room.
8:15 p.m. Basketball, Tech vs. Be
thany, Home.
Tuesday
11:30 a.m. Assembly, Skibo Ball
room,
4:30 p.iu. Student Congress. Skibo 
Wherrett Room.
5 p.m. Cwens Meeting. Skibo Rom
46.
7:30 to 11 p.m. Lew Byers, On 
the John Birch Society. Skibo 
Wherrett Room.
7:30 to 11 p.m. Explorers Club. 
Skibo Room 54.
7:30 p.m. Gymnastics Club. 11118116 
Hall.
8 p.m. Tech Dames, Arts and 
Crafts. Skibo Room 55.
8 to 11 p.m. Folk Dance Club. 
Skibo Wherrett Room.
I.M. Table Tennis Singles
I.M. Table Tennis Doubles
IM Foul Shooting

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 9, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 5
TroikaBy John Day 
Don Carter 
David Henderson
Draft Everybody
In the Tartan of January 12 Mr. 
Panepinto, in his column, The 
Search for Understanding, sug
gested an end to the draft and 
proposed that our armed forces 
be maintained on a voluntary basis 
by massive salary increases. We 
think Mr. Panepinto neither unpa
triotic nor un-American but we do 
think him unaware of the implica
tions of his argument.
Abolition of the draft and a con
sequent increase in salaries with 
projected re-enlistments would 
spell the end of the citizen sol
dier and create a mercenary ar
my. Panepinto* s soldier, once in 
the military establishment, would 
hopefully remain there for some 
time on a voluntary basis. The 
military, as an element meshing 
with society as a whole would 
cease to exist and become a dis
tinct and separate element with its 
own goals. The common soldiers 
would no longer look forward to his 
return to civilian life but to im
proving his own lot within the arm
ed forces and the lot of the arm
ed forces themselves.
It is axiomatic that the mer
cenary soldiers loyalties are not 
to his country but to the military 
itself. Panepintos model is the 
Latin American army.
The scheme apparently does not 
consider the event of war, which 
is, after all, the armed forces* 
raison detre. However competi
tive military and civilian salaries 
may become, there is little com
petition between a safe civilian 
job at home and a bullet in the 
gut in Vietnam. The draft is, and 
will remain, essential in time of 
war, as are the reserves which ap
parently have no place in the new 
system.
We suggest instead, Universal 
Military Training (UMT\ a pro
posal much discussed recently and 
one more realistic for our society. 
UMT would require every male, 
except those physically handicap
ped or mentally retarded, to enter 
the armed forces upon reaching the 
age of 18 or upon graduation from 
high school. According to the Wirtz 
report, a third of the draft age 
populace  including such profes
sional athletes as Joe Namath and 
Muhammed Ali  would be physi
cally or mentally unfit for mili
tary service. By inducting most of 
these, periods of enlistment could 
be cut to two years with the option 
of six months active duty and 7-1/2 
years reserve. Those men who 
plan to attend college could opt 
for six months active, a limited 
ROTC program during college and 
an officer's commission upon 
graduation.
Falling as it does at the end of 
high school, UMT would provide 
a buffer between school and the 
demands of making a living with 
time and facilities for the young 
man to plan his future and choose 
a career. This would avoid the 
disruption of civilian life that oc
curs when older men are drafted. 
UMT would involve almost 2 mil
lion inductees per year, many more 
than necessary for maintenance of 
the Armed Forces. The scope of 
the military would however be 
broadened to include the educa
tional functions of the present 
rather unruly job corps in a dis
ciplined context. For the first 
time many underprivileged boys 
would be introduced to health fa
cilities and training and a wellbalanced diet in a healthy atmos
phere. A reduction in rates of ju
venile delinquency is a probable 
corollary.
The cost of the UMT program 
is estimated at 2-1/2 billion more 
than the present system. A com
petitive salary system for the 
three million man army project
ed for mid-1966, would, according 
to the pentagon, cost an additional 
$20 billion, an almost impossible 
figure to tack onto the present 
national budget.
One of the chief protests against 
maintaining the draft has been its 
inequity in the treatment of eco
nomic groups. Only one third of 
college graduates serve Uncle 
Sam as compared to two third of 
high school graduates. Abolition of 
the draft, even in favor of compe
titive salaries would only worsen 
the ratio. The only really equitable 
system is Universal Military 
Training.
The Authority To ( Act 
Last Saturday night, an outside group had rented 
the Wherrett Room in Skibo for a Valentine day dance. 
Several fights broke out, (See page one) and in the 
ensuing moments, campus police were called to the 
scene. Rather than immediately taking action, they 
claimed they had no authority without first receiving 
orders from their chief. Secondly, when asked to re
move all participants from the building, they refused 
on the grounds that it would be in violation of the rights 
of the group renting the Wherrett Room, and to re
move them would constitute a breach of the rental 
contract. Finally, when originally asked to summon 
the aid of the Pittsburgh police, they again refused, 
stating that they were capable of handling the situa
tion.
Must, in such a case as this, the security police 
first consult their superiors ? Certainly it must have 
been clear that unless the offending parties were not 
removed, physical damage would result to both in
nocent bystanders and Skibo itself. Secondly, any 
such rental contract would have been broken by 
virtue of the misconduct in the Wherrett Room and the 
rest of Skibo.
Finally, since no action was apparently forthcom
ing from the security police, the request for the aid 
of the city police was certainly reasonable. Eventual
ly, the Pittsburgh police did arrive and clear the 
building, but this action could have been done much 
sooner, possibly preventing the further incidents that 
also occurred, by the campus police had they the 
initiative and /or authority to act.
Along with the review and revision of policy re
garding the use of Skibo by outside groups, it is time 
to review and revise the role and authority given to 
the campus security police. t
Awareness
Color vs.
Dollar
Yk uIIMa oEnhMI
Segregation in our society  it is almost inconceivable that it can 
exist. It clearly negates the American way of life, but which part of 
it? Certainly not the moral. Since the beginning of our country various 
groups, large and small, have been the object of ridicule, harassment 
and hate.
At all times in our history we have found people calling each other 
such names as Wop, Chink, Spic, Kike and Nigger. Sometimes these 
references are merely in jest, however, often they are not in jest, 
but in earnest  one group showing their dislike for the other. Often 
the ridicule is within the group itself. It is not unusual to hear the Jew 
making references to the cheap Jew** or the Negro calling member*s 
of his race black nigger.**
This type of moral decadence has long been a part of our society. 
Segregation is simply another way in which the utter dislike for a par
ticular group is shown. It was used against social, religious, and racial 
groups other than the Negro  although not to such an extent. When the 
Irish emigrated from their homeland to America, the Americans de
tested them  fearing fcr their jobs and their livelihoods. Discrimi
nation was rampant against the Poles, Chinese, Jews as well as most 
other groups when they came to America.
No, segregation certainly does not seem to negate the deep moral 
abyss in which we find ourselves entrenched. Segregation is a part of it.
However, it does negate our capitalistic way of life. It is almost 
impossible to believe that segregation could be such a powerful force 
that it overcomes our capitalistic ends. But it has. In a country where 
the dollar is of utmost importance  it has fallen in the path of segrega
tion.
In the South where the standard of living is low it is difficult to con
ceive that store owners would refuse Negroes and the business they 
brought. Instances  one after another confront us with the fact that 
the supremacy of the dollar has been challenged and challenged by what
 the color of someones skin. There were hundreds of luncheonet
tes, food stores And hotels that were under the false impression that 
permitting Negroes would cause the loss of their white trade.
Yes, amazingly enough segregation proved the victor in the battle 
between color and dollar.
TEACH IN NIGERIA OR GHANA
r%) RdccEYIM1 , C .de sssssssssss
4s uiM b DiblebrM BErh b cridaD 6b_di a da) dC rh) CdIIdBEaD1 b nh)6 ! 
crikG Ys RhkcEncG ns YEdIdDk ls MaDEaMMiEaDG )s 6brhM6brEncG Cs LiManh 
Ds hd6d Mndad6EncG di hbU) b 6bcrMiAc jMDiMM Ea 9aDIEch
0s ui) b ZsOs nErIx)aG a Dddl h)bIrhG IME* rhba 22 kMbic dC bD)G l)cEiM 
rd r)bnh br Eh) cMndalbik cnhddI di _eaEdi ndIIbD) IMUMIs
-s uiM cEaDIM di 6biiEMl BErh ad 6diM rhba daM ealMi cnhddI bDM nhEIls 
C EarMiMcrMlG RIMbcM BiErM rd1
TEACHERS FOR WEST AFRICA PROGRAM 
Elizabethtown College 
Elizabethtown, Pennsylvania 17022
Grant Given 
For Research 
On Transport
A transportation Research Insti
tute will be located at Carnegie 
Tech.
To be supported in part by a 
$300,000 gift from the Richard 
King Mellon Foundation, the new 
organization will engage in broad 
research studies into problems of 
urban and inter-urban transporta
tion.
Richard K. Mellon, honorary 
chairman of the First Internation
al Conference on Urban Trans
portation commented on the new 
Institute saying: It comes into 
being just at the right time: when 
the ideas expressed at the Confe
rence can be considered by the 
Institute and developed possibly 
into solutions to benefit all me
tropolitan areas suffering from 
transportation problems.**
The purposes and functions of 
the institute will be to perform 
transportation for the various go
vernments, businesses and other 
organizations; to develop an edu
cational program at the graduate 
level; and to advance education and 
contribute to scientific knowledge 
in the field.
As director of the institute, Dr.
H. Guyford Stever, Carnegie Tech 
president, named Dr. James P. 
Romauldi, professor of civil engi
neering. Dr. Thomas E. St el son 
and Dr. Milton C. Shaw were na
med associate directors.
Generally, the institute will be 
concerned with all aspects of urban 
and inter-urban transportation 
with immediate emphasis on urban 
rapid mass transit and high-speed 
inter-urban transportation. Even
tually, it is hoped that the Insti
tute can establish a full cur
riculum providing for graduate 
study leading to a degree in Tran
sportation Engineering or Trans
portation Science.
TTie institute will begin operat
ing immediately and will eventual
ly take over physical space in 
Baker Hall. It is expected that wi
thin five years the Institute will 
have an annual budget of more than 
$ 1 million dollars.
Sikorsky
Aircraft
ENGINEERING REPRESENTATIVES WILL BE ON CAMPUS 
TO GIVE SENIORS AND GRADUATES COMPLETE DETAILS ON
ENGINEERING OPPORTUNITIES
WITH THE PIONEER AND LEADING MANUFACTURER 
of VTOL AIRCRAFT
See your College Placement Office now 
for an appointment.
Tuesday, February 22
SIKORSKY AIRCRAFT, Stratford. Conn. I Division of United Aircraft Corp. | An Equal Opportunity Employer (M4F) 
---------------------------------11111______________________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, February 9, 1966
New Curricula
Continued from Page 1
tory, and physics and English or 
history.
Of the forty semester courses 
comprising the total four years 
of study there are twelve courses 
required in the science major 
and no more than ten courses in 
the humanities major. Thus, ap
proximately half the program is 
devoted to related areas, distri
bution subjects, and free electives.
Of the twenty semester courses 
comprising the last two years for 
the physics-English program, only 
nine are devoted to specific re
quired courses while eleven may 
be chosen by the student within 
prescribed limitations. The math 
programs permit more freedom 
of choice for the student.
The total number of completely 
free electives is very small, how
ever, namely, two in physics and 
four in math.
While the minimum require
ments in physics and math are less 
than those now required for a 
C arnegie Tech bachelor of science 
degree, they are comparable to the 
requirements at many universities 
and are adequate for the initia
tion of graduate study.
The minimum requirements in 
English and history are also con
sidered adequate for the initia
tion of graduate study. The 32 se
mester hours of English meet the 
generally accepted requirements 
of 30 hours for an English major.
oMlEnbI aceibanM
All Carnegie Institute of Tech
nology students who are not Unit
ed States citizens will be requir
ed after September 1, 1966, to 
purchase the Student Medical In
surance Policy and the addition
al Major Medical coverage which 
is offered optionally to students 
who are United States citizens.
The only exceptions to this rule 
will be made for students who, 
because of United States Depart
ment of State sponsorship, are 
already covered by a comparable 
program.
Each foreign student will be 
responsible for purchasing the in
surance at registration.
Fry To Visit 
As Falk Prof.
Northrop Fry, professor of Eng
lish and principal of Victoria Col
lege, University of Toronto, will 
visit Carnegie Tech as a Falk lec
turer from February 15 to 17, 
Professor Fry, a reknowned li
terary critic is noted for his book, 
Anatomy of Criticism.
Fry will lecture on Criticism 
and Society, Tuesday, February 
15 at 4 p.m. in GSIA, In addition, 
he will attend a coffee hour on 
Thursday, February 17 at 11:30 
in the Skibo Highlander Room.
He will lecture to the 20th cen
tury Poetry class on T.s. Eliot 
and will meet with graduate Eng
lish students during his stay at 
Carnegie Tech.
HaW CaLLrtr 1 
STUDrNTS VIrW (I THr DnHFT4^ * *f|| Even administrators of the draft | 
admit its inequities and imperfecf  tions. Many question its fairness. |A special section in the February I ATLANTIC considers all sides: two HI college men view the draft in | fit Taking a McNamara Fellowship 11 and How to be Patriotic and Live | 
With Yourself. A third article,Who Should Serve?, probes the | dilemma and explores improveIII ments and alternatives.
Hi Also in this issue: In Defense of I the Negro Colleges and Art and |II Anti-Art in Painting and Books.
tlantic
Junior Year 
in 
New York
Three undergraduate colleges offer students 
from all parts of the country an opportunity 
to broaden their educational experience 
by spending their 
Junior Year in New York 
New York University is an integral part of 
the exciting metropolitan community of 
New York Citythe business, cultural, 
artistic, and financial center of the nation. 
The city's extraordinary resources greatly 
enrich both the academic program and the 
experience of living at New York University 
with the most cosmopolitan student body in 
the world.
This program is open to students 
recommended by the deans of the colleges 
to which they will return for their degrees. 
Courses may be taken in the 
School of Commerce 
School of Education 
Washington Square College of Arts 
and Science
Write for brochure to Director, Junior Year 
in New York
?9y .tW Z?p9tON.
New York, N.Y. 10003
tZwO ! ;42!;-Ow M MW run, BMtlr a eftlowaat pile. IxH 12x11, ate.Um following i-* mm akmal fornitore Hems 2r* Am: 41* factor Nu, butterfly choira, rami basket chaira, foidio* rapa chaira, hiarari Inin* chain, dinin* tablea.
Fbr complete bedroom, IMhimmm, dinincrooma at 40% off (at Mamfaeturcr showroom*), tequtvt sts
SHuO9AO
OKo ybhBr OrsG OYdlkbClM 
4K4) CECrh tech ?Mbi jdBbrdBM
OpM 10 a.m.-9 pan.Sht. 10*6
Ma. 1-1025 
Serving the College Trade.
 Large Savings 
SWEATERS, PARKAS, & OTHER 
ITEMS NOW ON SALE 
ATGATETh) fasHion
rXCITINt FHSHIaNS41 S. CnHIt
JONES & LAUGHLIN STEEL CORPORATION
Will Be Interviewing On
February 25 & February 28, 1966 
Candidates For Management Training 
Programs In Fields Of
jMcEDa 9aDEaMMiEaD FidlenrEda obabDM6Mar
alecriEbI 9aDEaMMiEaD tMcMbinh bal jMUMIdR6Mar
NMnhaEnbI OMiUEnMc &oMrbIIeiDk3
Please Check With Placement Office For More Details
Graduation was only the beginning 
of Jim Browns education
Because he joined Western Electric
Jim Brown, Northwestern University, '62, came 
with Western Electric because he had heard about 
the Company's concern for the continued develop
ment of its engineers after college graduation.
Jim has his degree in industrial engineering and 
Is continuing to learn and grow in professional 
stature through Western Electrics Graduate Engi
neering Training Program. The objectives and edu
cational philosophy of this Program are in the best 
of academic traditions, designed for both experi
enced and new engineers.
Like other Western Electric engineers, Jim 
started out in this Program with a six-week course 
to help in the transition from the classroom to 
industry. Since then, Jim Brown has continued to 
take courses that will help him keep up with the 
newest engineering techniques in communications.
This training, together with formal college 
engineering studies, has given Jim the ability to 
develop his talents to the fullest extent. His present 
responsibilities include the solution of engineer
ing problems in the manufacture of moly-permalloy core rings, a component used to improve the 
quality of voice transmission.
If you set the highest standards for yourself, 
enjoy a challenge, and have the qualifications 
we're looking for  we want to talk to you! Oppor
tunities exist now for electrical, mechanical and 
industrial engineers, and for physical science, lib
eral arts and business majors. For more informa
tion, get your copy of the Western Electric Career 
Opportunities booklet from your Placement Officer. 
And be sure to arrange for an interview when the 
Bell System recruiting team visits your campus.
Western Electric MANUFACTURING ANO SUPPLY UNIT OF THE BELL SY3TEM
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER /
FiEanERbI manufacturing locations in 13 cities ? Operating centers in many of these same cities RIec 36 others throughout the U.S. 
9aDEaMMiEaD tMcMbinh SMarMiG Princeton, NJ.DT^fetype Corp., Skokie, III., Little Rock, Ark. ?General HMblebirMics New .dig City

---------------------------------------------------

Wednesday, February 9, 1966 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Page 7
if she doesnt give it to you...
get it yourself!JADE pa<t
Cologo, 6 oz., (4.50 
After Shavt, 6 oz., $3.50 
Deodorant Stick, $1.75 
Buddha Cologne Gift Package, 12 
Spray Cologne, $3.50 
Buddha Soap Gift Set, $4.00 
Cologne, 4 oz., $3.00 
After Shave, 4 02., $2.50SrtAN*. NfcW VOR* - w'ffc V'ta *8 JC*R
nrSIDrNCr aF DISTINCTIaN 
IN THr CULTUnHL HrHnT 
aF PITTSBUntH
Furnished or unfurnished efficiency and one bed
room apartments, with equipped kitchens, Util
ities included. Limited number available.
Fairfax Hotel
621-4030
Make your appearance in
AND LET 1UE CHICKS 
FALL WHERE THEY MAY!
SLACKS, JEANS and 
WALK SHORTS with
FaraPress
The sharp styling of Farah slacks 
puts the frosting on anything 
you might cook up!
FARAH MANUFACTURING CO.. INC.  EL PASO. TEXAS
For '66...the best shapes in Pgh. come from...
M.W. MOTOR
Pittsburghfr Factory Dealer
ROUTE 8. ETNA
Basketball
Continued from Page 8 
limp or1. Brown suffers at var
ious times from twisted ankles, 
shin splints, a sore back, and low 
blood pressure, Pitt is not totally 
sound either as Ken Bollens, a big 
sophomore forward, is not expect
ed to play.
The Tartans still have to handle 
big men like Bob Lovett and guard 
Larry Szykowny, but Cratsley 
thinks * we will never have a bet
ter chance to beat Pitt than we 
do now. Tech hasnt beaten Pitt 
in 21 games, but they almost turn
ed the trick in the first game this 
season on the Panthers* home 
court. Although Brown and Mor
rison had an off-day, Tech came 
from ten points behind at halftime, outscored the Cats from 
the field 40-32, and played them 
even on rebounds.
And then again, said Cratsley, 
referring back to the schedule 
disadvantage, they may be flat 
after not playing all week and we 
might keep a sharp edge on from 
Tuesday night, so who knows?
obibrhda OhdB
WRCT will present a radio ma
rathon rock and roll/pop music 
show from the lobby of Skibo on 
the weekend of February 18.
The announcers, Larry Hoff
man and Sandy Skalka, will be on 
the air for 40 hours. Dancing to 
the music broadcast will be af
forded by monitor speakers in 
the lobby and many contests, both 
in the lobby and on the air, are 
anticipated.
Hammers Awarded 
IM Volleyball Title
The Intramural Managers Board 
awarded first place in I.M. volley
ball to the Civil Hammers at a 
January meeting. SAE had beaten 
the Hammers in the championship 
game, but was disqualified for us
ing an ineligible player in the fi
nals.
SENIORS
NH9 u??Zu O9?t u?fZ9N 
OF?Ot9j . NH9 uZo? 
L9j9tuN? y 9 H9j y9js 
L9tZut. 4| ? OW uto
REGISTER NOW
? NH9 uZo? LLS9
PrNNSYLVHNIH TnHNSFanMrn
A national manufacturer of distribution transformers and regula
tors, medium and high voltage switchgear and power transformers 
will be on campus
Monday, February 14, 1966 
to interview degree candidates in:
Electrical Engineering 
Mechanical Engineering 
Industrial Engineering
Pennsylvania Transformer is a division of McGraw-Edison Com
pany, located in Canonsburg, Pa., 18 miles southwest of Pitts
burgh. It is an autonomous member of the more than forty divi
sions which comprise the diversified McGraw-Edison family.
As a member of the McGraw-Edison Group, Pennsylvania Trans
former has behind it the financial strength and stability of a 
major, diversified corporation. But, along with this, Pennsylvania 
Transformer is an autonomous operation, where decisions are 
made locally by aggressive young management. This means that, 
while you have the profit-sharing plan of a major corporation, 
you work, gain recognition, and advance as an individual.
If you can appreciate the opportunity this environment otfers -- 
not only now but ten years from now -- we'd Ijki to take with 
you. Specifically,' wed like to talk about design, development, 
application and manufacturing engineering and technical sales.
Contact your Placement Office to arronge an interview.

---------------------------------------------------

Cagers Take 4 Straight; 
Pitt Here Toaiorrow
Looking forward to tomorrow nights big game with Pitt at Skibo Gym, Car
negie Techs basketball players carried a four-game winning streak into a 
game with West Penn Conference runnerup Grove City at Grove City last 
night. _ _
Westminster game: Kalin jumps over Titans Dixie Rowlands for a basket, Lang sinks a last-second 
free throw, and Tech rooters are jubilant.
Most recent victory was an ago
nizing 68-67 nail-biter over West
minister Saturday afternoon, wit
nessed by 2,017 electrified Tech 
Ians. The moment of truth came 
with 15 seconds left and the score 
tied 67-67, when Mark Lang stole 
a Westminster pass and was foul
ed while breaking downcourt. Dis
playing tremendous cool, Lang 
stepped to the foul line and flick
ed a perfect shot through the 
net. The Titans got one last chance 
to score, but a desperation toss 
from the corner missed the hoop 
entirely.
Pre-Exam Loss
On the Tuesday night before 
exams the Tartans travelled 
through the snow to Western Re
serve in Cleveland where they suf
fered a cold shooting night, hitting 
just 28 per cent, and lost 80- 
71.
But after finals they swept four 
straight, three at home, to raise 
their season record to nine wins
and four losses. During semes
ter break Allegheny and St. Vin
cent were guests at Skibo Gym. 
Jim Brown sat out the Allegheny 
game with a sprained ankle but 
Tech had no trouble at all win
ning 93-59. The second team came 
in after the regulars opened a 
36-16 lead in the first half, and 
again when the margin reached 79- 
48 in the second half.
Against St. Vincent Ray Burdett, who hadn't scored in double 
figures since last season, scored 
22 points and sparked a scoring 
burst which brought the Tartans 
from six points behind with two 
minutes left to pull out a 75-72 
thriller. Burdett explained, Ijust 
kept getting open and kept shoot
ing. Brown played the last few 
minutes of this battle.
At Waynesburg last Wednes
day night Ray Morrison scored
28 points, the highest game total 
for any Tech player this year, 
and Jeff Kalin scored 20 to help
Lang (on knees) get tied up after pulling down a rebound.
Tech break open a tight contest 
and win 81-73.
Uphill Fight 
In the Westminster game Tech 
trailed most of the way, never 
leading until less than two minu
tes were left. In the first ten min
utes of play the Westminster box
ed the Tartans out under the 
boards, stole numerous loose pas
ses, and built up an appalling 20 to
6 lead. TTie Tartans finally start
ed to throw their weight around, 
though, and ground the margin down 
to 35-30 at halftime.
Tech didnt let Westminster 
drive for baskets in the second 
half, but outside shooting by John 
Fontanella and Mike Drespling 
kept the Titans four to eight points 
ahead.
With five minutes to go and a 65- 
61 lead the Titans decided to play 
it slow and deliberate, but the Tar
tans beat them at their own game. 
Jim Brown sank two jumpers and 
Kalin sank one while the harrassing Tech defense held Westminster 
to two free throws, and Langs shot 
finished it.
Panthers Next 
Thus the Tartans took an im
pressive 9 and 4 record home Sat
urday. Pitt brings a rather dismal
4-13 report card into tomorrow 
nights game at CIT, but since 
the Panthers play a big-time 
schedule comparative won-lost 
records dont mean much. Talking 
about Pitt on Sunday night, Tech 
coach Mel Cratsley lamented the 
fact that his team had a rough 
road game at Grove City Tuesday 
night while the Cats had the week 
off to rest and prepare for the 
contest. He acknowledged the fact 
that GC, which lost a wild and wooly 
93-84 fray to Tech earlier this 
year, is hardly a team one can look 
past, and noted that a Tuesday game 
wouldnt let the Tartans stage a 
really hard practice session on 
Monday or Wednesday.
Cratsley also worried about his 
six-foot-six center, Jim Brown, 
who is hurt in so many places 
that he doesnt know what part to
Continued on Page 7
After a layoff of nearly a month for finals and 
semester break, the Tartan swimming team split 
a pair of meets in Ohio last weekend. They lost 59-36 
to . Kent State Friday night, but beat Cleveland State University (formerly Fenn College) 48-47 on Saturday.
Against Kent State Tech placed 
first in the 50 - and 100 - yard 
freestyle and the 400-yard free
style relay, but could only manage 
three second places and three 
thirds in all the other events.
The CS meet was made uncom
fortably close when a Tech swim
mer was disqualified for failing 
to touch the wall on a turn. This 
disqualification cost the man a 
second place in the 200 - yard 
breaststroke and made a six - 
point difference in the final score.
Tech won the meet by mopping
up in their strong department, the 
freestyle events.
Pete Hutter won the 50 - and 
100-yard freestyle, Gery Andrews 
won the 200-yard, Bill Cotsworth 
the 500-yard, and the team of 
Hough, Andrews, Perry and 
Yahr took the 400-yard freestyle 
relay.
Going into this afternoons meet 
with Allegheny at the Tech Pool 
at 4:30 p.m., the swimmers have 
a won-lost record of 2 and 5.
Tech Grid Coach 
Signs With Pros
Richie McCabe, assistant foot
ball coach at Tech for the last 
three years under Joe Gasparella, 
has signed as defensive coach of 
the Buffalo Bills of the American 
Football League. CIT public re
lations director Rege Ebner says 
he believes this is the first time 
anyone associated with Carnegie 
Tech has ever coached a major 
professional team, although some 
Tech men have played for the pros 
in the past.
McCabe played college football 
at Pitt and played pro ball as a 
defensive halfback for the Bills, 
the Pittsburgh Steelers, and the 
Washington Redskins. He came to 
Tech when Joe Gasparella was hi
red as head coach in 1963, and 
coached the Tartan defensive team 
in the evenings while teaching at 
Oliver High School during the day.
Gasparella called McCabe very 
enthusiastic; totally devoted to 
football, and said looking at it 
from a selfish viewpoint, I hate to 
see him leave.
The Bills, champions oftheAFL 
for the last two years, contacted 
McCabe early in January from
LEWISSalet-Repair 
RADIO - ELECTRIC CO. 
SUPPLIES 
RADIOS 
HIGH FIDELITY 
TELEVISION 
RECORD PLAYERS 
621-4211 
1115 OAKLAND AVE
IDEM
Richie McCabe
Houston, where they were to play 
the American League All - Star 
team in the AFLs All-Star Bowl. 
After flying to Houston to accept 
the job, McCabe resigned to Oli
ver High and moved to Buffalo 
to begin full-time coaching duties 
immediately.
Applications for the Tech posi
tion left vacant by McCabe are now 
being reviewed, but no successor 
has been named yet.
SKIBa 
SNHCK BHn
LL9tO
CARRY OUT SERVICI
To Tech Students 
& Faculty
Snack Bar Hours: 
M0N.-FRI. 10:3012 
SAI. 12-12 
SUN. 3:3010:30
Swimmers Nip CS 
After Loss At Kent
Page 8 - CARNEGIE TECH TARTAN - Wednesday, February 9, 1966
