nn n  ^V^/olume 80, Number 8 |H |B I | Carnegie-Mellon Umversil
November 6, 1979 M. jaB^jfjcT iBB ..Jb. 1 Pittsburgh, PA 15213^V JV/^kl
Weber named UC president
by Larry Duffee
Arnold R. Weber, CMU provost and 
former dean of the Graduate School of In
dustrial Administration, has been named 
president of the University of Colorado. 
Weber, 50, will assume the presidency in 
January 1980. The university has four cam
puses with a total enrollment of 30,000, 
as well as a medical school and electronics 
research center.
CMU President Richard M. Cyert said 
Weber has made a significant contribution 
to Carnegie-Mellon University over the past 
six years. Under his guidance, the four col
leges that reported to him as provost are 
sucessfully meeting the intense challenges 
presented to higher education. His depar
ture from CMU is a significant loss to me 
personally both because of his valued 
friendship and because of the excellent ad
vice he offered on a large number of mana
gerial problems.
It was Webers managerial expertise and 
organizational manner, as much as his 
national recognition, that contributed to 
his six years of sucess at CMU.
Vice President for Management Richard 
Van Horn said, Weber developed a closer 
relationship between the business world 
and GSIA, and brought in more faculty 
with managerial experience, people like Joe 
Schultz. He also helped the social science 
department secure funding and increased 
CMUs press coverage while supervising the 
Public Relations Department.
Webers arrival in Colorado will be wel
comed by a state that has a growing popu
lation, in Doth the public and academic 
sectors. His administrative and government 
experience will be tested as the Colorado 
educational system expands.
Weber is a nationally known economist 
who served as an Associate Director of the 
White House office of Management and 
Budget. He also assisted former President 
Nixon with his cost of living controls. 
Weber has an extensive background in the 
business community, being on the board
WRCT tunes in
by Dave Radack
Were finally using it, said Chas 
Sislen, General Manager of WRCT-FM in 
reference to their new 40 foot antenna. 
Located atop Warner Hall, the antenna 
enables WRCT to reach a much larger 
audience.
In addition to improving reception on 
campus, the new antenna makes it possible 
for WRCTs signal to reach five other area 
colleges, and people as far away as the 
Point and Churchill.
The antenna is a major step in convert
ing WRCT from a mono to a stereo station. 
Right now, the Federal Communications 
Commission (FCC) is considering WRCTs 
application to increase power from ten to 
100 watts. Sislen stated that there seem 
to be no problems and that WRCT will 
become WRCT stereo by February 1,1980.
It took alot of time and work in get
ting the antenna operative, but now it 
seems well worth it, Sislen said. He also 
said that many new people are discovering 
WRCT, and that DJs are now able to do 
entire shows totally by request.
Along wiui their increased range, WRCT 
is offering improved programming. Free 
form music, news and information. Tartan 
sports and other specialized programs offer 
something for ail students and listeners 
24 hours a day.
of directors of several large corporations, 
including PepSi Co. and ConRail.
Commenting about Weber, Edward 
Schatz, Vice-President for ' Academic 
Affairs said, I think that he came to CMU 
as a well known national figure, thus 
increasing CMUs image in such areas as 
Government and a large number of cor
porations. Weber was very instrumental in 
attracting the H&SS Dean (John Crecine) 
and they have in turn come up with a new 
mission and a new confidence.
At this time the university has no plans 
to replace Weber. President Cyert will most 
likely divide Weber's responsibilities among 
Schatz, Van Horn, and Ed Delaney, Direc
tor of Public Relations.
SUPA Dean resigns
by Elliot Ohlberg
Dean Toby Davis announced to SUPA 
faculty and students on October 29 that he 
is resigning as dean effective June 30,
1979. While the problems of administering 
did exist, personal objectives precipitated 
the decision.
The fun I get out of being at a univer
sity, Davis told the TARTAN, is from 
interaction with students, research, and 
teaching. To go beyond where I am now 
I wouldnt be able to d^any of these things 
provost Arnold Weber. My research productivity has fallen off.
Sometimes you get a feeling that you are at
Onlookers turned out by the hundreds to see the fireworks display that was re
scheduled because of rain during the Homecoming weekend.
Dean Toby Davis.
the crossroads of a career; I have that feel
ing for myself. Im 45 and Ive got a good 
20-25 years ahead. In 5 more years, I 
might find it very hard to get back into 
the research. (Deans appointments are 
typically for 5 years.)
Davis also mentioned health reasons for 
his decision. I have always been asthma
tic, now 1 have high blood pressure. I think 
its time to relieve some of the presssure of 
administering and go back to being a scho
lar.
Of his future, Davis said, I would cer
tainly be willing to stay at CMU if the ad
ministration could find a proper profes
sional role for me. However, next year I 
hope to take a leave, probably in Calif
ornia.
Asked to render advice to the search 
committee charged with finding a new 
dean, Davis offered, They must conduct 
a national search for a person who has the 
same committment to equal opportunity as 
SUPA now demonstrates. The committee 
will also need to find an associate dean, as 
Norman Johnsons resignation is concur
rent with Davis. Johnsons resignation let
ters have been sent to Davis for about a 
year. The two men , along with ex-Associate Dean Marion Oliver, who left CMU ear
lier this year are a kind of family, said 
Davis.
Davis has been involved with SUPA 
since its inception ten years ago; he 
authored the original plans. The first dean. 
Bill Cooper, talked Davis into becoming 
associate dean, almost against my will, 
says Davis, because I didnt see myself as 
as an adminisrator. Cooper resigned 
and Davis became dean.
Davis said he accomplished most of 
his objectives concerning SUPA, including:
continued on page 5
CMU Tartan defensive player. Gusty Sunseri, let the Parent's Day crowd at Satur
day's football game against Thiel know that his team was number one. The Tartans 
earned a playoff berth as a result of their victory. See page 25 for details and photos.

---------------------------------------------------

David at CMU:
The perfect mind, the perfect body. 
Sculpture idea by Dick Cyert
TARTAN
Volume 80 
Number 8
November 6,1979
Editor-in-Chief: Jean Pellegrini
Managing Editors:
Business Manager: 
Production Manager:
Neil Adler 
Brian Byrnes 
Karen Stevens 
Michael Brzustowicz
News Editor: Doug Kirsop 
Features Editor: Lynn Epstein 
Entertainment Editor: Alan Spero
Sports Editor: Perry Colosimo
Associate Editor: Mory Brenner 
Magazine Editor: Susan Borg 
Photography Editor: Robert Zusman 
Art Director: Tom Megalis
News: Beth Arden, Asst. Editor; Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Tim Bardwell, Jim Bost, Dave Boyce, Sue Brillman, Jeanette 
Bryan. Anne Cesnick. Stan Cieslak, Linda Dickerson, Carol Dietrich, Ed Frankenbery, Chris Gebhardt. Andre Jenkins, 
Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Mark Kennett, Pete Levin, Chris Magyai, Donald Mawson, Kwasi Mensah, Deb Morgas, Debbie 
Nir, Elliot Ohlberg, Judy Ohlin, Andy Ragan, Dena Santoro, Sheryl Sazim, Scott Schaffer, Andy Sicree, Molly Silver, 
Ben Smith, David Seet, Vernon Valentine, Lisa Vaughan. Jane Weisbacher, Sue Wilkin, Elsie Yoder. Eddy Zayas.
Features: Jeanne Abmayr, Lisa Andruzzi, Luis Ball, Beth Bangor, Valerie Brandt, Art Benjamin, Michael Conroy, Chris 
Gebhart. Bob Gleason, Neva Jones, Paul Karmin, Kathy Krummert, David Land, Kwasi Mensah, David Mills, Sheryl 
Sazima, Stu Seidman.
Entertainment : Kate Bertrand,theater editor; Ed Slosky,events editor; Scott Alburger, Bob Hertry. Dave Kirby. Paul L. 
Kravits, Cheryl Goodman, Joan Livitski, Paul Mendler, Gretchen Miller, Aline Naters, Debbie Nir, Scott Schaffer. Ted 
Smits, Vernon Valentine.
Sports: Dave Wills, assistant editor; Fran Arsht, Ronnie Ben-Avon, Dave Brandwene, Pat Crump, Bernie Ivanshultz. 
Frank Pugliano, Dave Radack, Scott Schatter, Bob Share, Thomas Smith, Lesley Weiser, Craig Woolheater.
Production. Suzanne Chan, Ken Kulak, George Lyons, Janet Martin, Gretchen Miller,Smita Pai, Nancy Richman.Anne 
Rogers, Ken Salem, Lynn Sokol, Sue Wilkin, Ed Zayas.
Photography: Chuck Chidekel, Larry Duffy, Andy Edelman, Jenny Ladd, Marcy Lubitz, Michael Melnick, Skip Stong. 
Art -Tom Hart, assistant director; Robert Conroy, Andy Epstein, Tina Klem, C.C. Otto.
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon University Tartan. All rights reserved. The Editorial Board reserves the right 
to edit or withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Gov
ernment of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo 50; (412) 578-2111 or 2112. 
24-hour answering service 2113. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 578-2111. Printed by Artcrafts Unlimited, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15206.
TARTAN
Brawny and Brainy?
"Carnegie-Mellon University always has ranked high 
nationally in academics, but now its brawny athletic prog
ram rates right up there with its brains," Phil Axelrod, Pitts
burgh Post-Gazette sports writer commented fSports Today, 
November 1; CMUs President Mixes Formula for Academic-A th/etic Success).
Sounds great. We have everything, according to Axelrod. 
And according to President Cyert, too: "Carnegie-Mellon 
had a Nobel Prize winner and an athletic championship in 
the same year.
Our athletic programs director, coaches, and athletes cer
tainly deserve a pat on the back. In the past five years, 
they've done a great job dispelling CMUs losers image  in 
sports.
Cyert was apparently the 'master of ceremonies  at the 
time it was decided to turn the athletic program around: I 
was probably the catalyst; / pushed the buttons, and the 
biggest one / pushed was getting Jim Banner and working 
with him. 
It is true and Cyert is to be commended for his leader
ship. But the enthusiasm and energy he brought to the win
ning CMU sports program needs to be carried over to other 
areas of the university. There are places where we are losing.
After the victory celebration, for all the championships 
that are wonor almost wonthis year, CMU and Dr. Cyert 
ought to take the time to reflect. Despite our great accom
plishments in athletics (and CMUs sports dollars have been 
well spent), the losers image is dear in many other areas 
of the university. For example, we might ask ourselves: 
What do prospective faculty and students think about our 
libraries? What effect does the lack of a student union have 
on this campus with respect to student morale and involve
ment?
Do some of our departments use a weeding out process 
to drop students during freshman and sophomore years, and 
if so, is this an ethical practice? Are students getting a fair 
shake with room and board? And what about the social 
life at CMUcan we compare with competing universities?
The masi pervasive question, we think, is this: Is G*jU 
an institution where students prepare for getting a job or 
getting an education? The old battle of the general 
education  versus the professional education it will have 
to be fought sooner or later.
Long after the last champagne bottle cork is popped this 
year, the effects of this universitys present academic pol
icies and amount of concern for its students will be felt.
We agree with Dr. Cyert; Winning is always more fun 
than losing. Therefore, we believe the losers image that 
CMU has right now, in areas other than athletics, has to be 
confronted today, or else our sustained success as an ins
titution of higher learning will be a dream of the past.
Up to you
Student Senate elections will be held tomorrow. 5o 
what?
That is probably the same response you will hear from 
our to-be-elected student representatives when you com
plain about student life or academic policies at CMUafter 
they are elected, after they realize how frustrating their jobs 
are, and after they understand that they are on their own; 
only a small minority of the people in their constituencies 
will ever actively particpate in helping to change things 
around here.
We are fools if we continue to throw away the freedom 
and power that we do have in the decision-making processes 
at this university. Get out there and vote! We must prove 
our sincere concern for our own rights and desires before 
the Student Senate can do anything effectively.
Our Senate has the potential; it has already proved that. 
Senate decided whit to do with the $150,000 in Activities 
Fee monies that we paid this year. They have an active role 
on the Tuition Committee, Educational Policies Committee, 
and the Presidents Student Advisory Committee. The 
Student Senate president speaks on behalf of the students 
at each Board of Trustees meeting.
Last year, Senate recommended to the administration 
that plus/minus grading not be implemented, and it was not. 
They support and participate in the United Way and Blood 
Drives held annually at CMU.
The fact is, the more support they have from the students 
(a meager twelve percent voted in last falls elections), the 
faster and better they can accomplish our mutual goals. It 
is up to you...
Jean Pellegrini 
Editor-in-Chief

---------------------------------------------------

letters
Missing money
Editor:
In October of 1978, the Iron 
and Steel Society (ISS) presented 
me with the Leo R. Reinhartz 
Award. This award included a 
large sum of money to be applied 
to my tuition at CMU.
The ISS set up funds for this 
award because the deceased Mr. 
Reinhartz, a distinguished mem
ber of the Society, put great faith 
in Carnegie-Mellon as an academic 
instituition and the organization 
wanted to honor his memory 
by helping students here.
In February, 1979, the ISS 
sent a check and a letter addressed 
to President Cyert explaining that 
it was to be credited to my 
account. I received a ca;. copy 
of the letter and two days later 
called the Presidents Office to 
confirm its arrival. I was assured 
that everything was in order and 
that it would be applied to my 
tuition.
Four months later I tried to 
register as a full-time summer 
student and found that the money 
was still not in my account. I 
spent the entire day running 
between the Registration Station 
in Skibo, the Cashiers Office and 
Financial Aid only to find that 
no one knew anything about the 
award or the check. Having 
exhausted my resources, I tried 
the Presidents office and was told 
by a Ms. Parks there that the mixup would be corrected.
Three months later my mother 
received a bill from the Cashiers 
Office which indicated that the 
money was still not credited. 
Again, I spent the day making the 
rounds at Warner Hall only to 
discover that Ms. Parks had re
signed and that nothing had been 
done to set matters straight. 
During the fiasco, I found the 
personnel in the Cashiers Office 
and the Presidents Office to be 
extremely uncooperative and in
sensitive to my problem.
Thankfully, I was referred to 
Carol Pascarella of Financial Aid 
who recognized the absurdity of 
the situation and who was very 
helpful in handling it. By that 
afternoon she had (she thought) 
solved the problem and again I 
was assured that it would be taken 
care of.
It is now November, 1979, 
nine months after the ISS sent 
President Cyert the check for my 
tuition. Yesterday, my mother 
received another bill indicating 
the money has not been put on 
my account. Once again no one 
seems to know what has happened 
to my money.
I am sure that we have all been 
victims of this universitys short
comings in our college careers. 
In the past I have been able to 
tolerate others mistakes and offer 
second chances, but I find this 
gross display of bureaucratic incomptetence and insensitivity in
excusable.
Congratulations Warner Hall! 
Youve really outdone yourselves 
this time.
Perhaps if the president of this 
fine university would spend the 
time to weed out some of the 
incompetents in his administra
tion building, he would be able to 
run a more efficient business.
As an impoverished college 
student my hands are tied and my 
effect on the operations here is 
insignificant. IF, however, I 
succeed in making my mark on 
the world as the distinguished Mr. 
Reinhartz did, I will certainly find 
a more worthy institution to 
endorse.
Jane E. Kahl 
Senior - MMS
H&SS parries ...
Editor:
Once again an engineer has 
spoken against H&SS. Another 
poor soul has been inflicted with 
the notion that he is superior in 
knowledge to the lowly H&SS 
student, whose sole purpose here 
is to be the object of abuse for a 
struggling, frustrated CIT major.
It is a shame that such a fine 
college as CIT has to admit ig
norant fools who cut down H&SS. 
These students are fortunately 
few and far between. But every 
once in a while, one of them rears 
his head long enough to spew 
forth baseless claims, quickly 
returning to hide underneath the 
cover of Name withheld upon 
request.
; I am sorry that some ungrate
ful engineers are forced to talce 
H&SS courses. However, I am 
sorry for myself because I have 
to deal with these uninformed, 
uneducated, and, in all respects, 
pitiful human beings. Anyone 
who is so conceited as to think 
that his C is better than anyone 
elses B is hopelessly lost, 
engrossed in his own small world.
H&SS is not perfect. It never 
will be because it realizes transcendance is an unattainable goal 
for any college. However, it 
pushes for academic achievement, 
and, at this point, it is doing a 
commendable job.
As I said before, ignorant fools 
are not numerous on this campus, 
and those that are here are not 
restricted to any one college 
Nevertheless, I suggest that this 
unknown martyr, and all martyrs 
to follow, should unveil the 
cloak of secrecy which envelopes 
his weak character.
Peter Giamporcaro 
Sophomore, H&SS
. . . thrusts . . .
Editor:I am writing in reply to the 
hard working CIT who did not 
have the guts to reveal his/her 
name. Reading his/her letter made 
me think back to the days when 
I was a freshman. The conversa
tion then consisted of
questions: whats your name? 
where are you from? and whats 
your major? The last question be
came a phobia for me. People 
seemed to snicker when I said I 
was in The College of Humanities 
and Social Sciences, or they 
would look disgusted and say oh, 
H&SS. By the way, it is H&SS, 
not HS&S as I have heard some 
people say.
After a while I got used to the 
idea that, because Ive decided 
that learning how a mans mind 
works is more important to me 
than Newtons Law of whatever 
and that Shakespeare is more 
interesting than Calculus, I am 
considered dumb.
Just as drama majors are some
times labeled not so normal the 
students of H& SS are labeled not 
so bright. After two and a half 
semesters I have learned to smile 
when someone says, I wish I 
had the light workload you have! 
Im finally tired of smiling. 
After reading this engineers 
letter, I have decided not to 
take the criticism any longer. I 
am tired of apologizing for being 
a student of H&SS. I am not 
going to waste my time arguing 
about who works harderwe all 
have enough work to keep us busy 
for the next three years, and none 
of it is easy. Each college is dif
ferent and thus the work they 
provide differs. My architect 
friends may spend all night des
igning a bath house while I spend 
it designing a history paper. The 
point is, I have earned my QPA; 
we all have. No matter how good 
or bad it is the QPA is acquired 
through hard work and effort. 
Perhaps this engineer wrote this 
letter as a joke simply to see how 
many people he could anger. 
Nevertheless it is time we all real
ized that each of us at CarnegieMellon University, no matter what 
our majors, carries our share of 
the work load.
Michelle Simioni 
College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences
... touch!
Editor:
Although as an H&SS student I 
am obviously, by Name Withhelds (TARTANJLetters to the 
Editor, 0ct.30) standards not in
telligent enough to presume to 
make suggestions to such an awe
some personage as an engineer, 
perhaps the sophomore from CIT 
will allow me to pull rank, since I 
am a senior.
My first suggestion is this, Mr. 
Withheld: H&SS needs you. Your 
obvious talent as a straight A stu
dent in humanities and business 
courses, your ability to condense
complex ideas into readily explic
able forms without prior prepar
ation, and your deep understand
ing of the educational process 
in a college environment all 
point to your becoming a worldfamous philosopher, or at least
Assistant Dean of H&SS.
My other suggestion is as fol
lows: Perhaps, if a 2.5 QPA is all 
you can muster in engineering, 
even after pulling many, allnighters, somebody is telling you 
something. Perhaps your many 
hours of hard work are misdirect
ed or even a waste. Perhaps a good 
counselor or psychiatrist can help 
you concentrate and achieve more 
If that doesnt work, maybe 
another career alternative (like the 
one in the previous paragraph) 
should be considered; otherwise, 
with a gentlemans C-plus, medio
crity in your chosen profession 
will be your fate.
Sir, your sensitivity and intelli
gence are exceeded only by the 
quantity of excrement which 
pervades your countenance.
D.MarkKennet
Senior
Economics/Applied Math
Vali-Dine again 
Editor:
I dont know if anybody else 
has noticed, but there is a small 
sign posted under one of the 
menu boards in Skibo, giving the 
nutritional content, and cost, of 
what is called the Breakfast Spe
cial. If you take the time to look 
at it, you will notice that this 
breakfast special has little or no 
relation to the daily breakfast 
special posted on a board just ten 
feet away. Last Wednesday, 
(10/31) the small sign included a 
cheese omelette, which cost more 
by itself than two of the daily 
specials.
The second problem, and pro
bably the worse, is that the sign 
stated the breakfast listed, which 
cost $1.50, was within the range 
of a B contract meal plan. With 
only $4.20 of budgeted purchas
ing power daily on this contract, 
it is obvious that the person 
made the sign either cannot add, 
or is assuming that the student is 
going to skip lunch or dinner 
(3 x $1.50 = $4.50) to keep their 
Vali-Dine account alive until the 
end of the semester.
While the effort to provide 
nutritional information to the stu
dents is a very worthwhile one, it 
should be given with undistorted 
facts about cost, if the cost is 
mentioned at all. It seems that the 
sign maker is nearly confused 
about the Vali-Dine system, as 
most of the students are.
Tom Knapp 
Junior, Civil Engineering
Student Manager, Food Service
Rah, rah Jack!
Editor:
Galileo had a first; Michaelangelo had one; Columbus did too. 
Now my turn. In ten years as stu
dent and staff, I never wrote a let
ter for publication. My response is 
to a letter in the views section of 
the 30th Oct. 79 edition of the 
TARTAN on Cigarette Smoking 
(sic) by Jack Mostow. I have
known Jack for about 3 years 
now. Now and then we have had 
conflicting opinions left unsettled. 
With your friends, that can be 
frustrating. Problems aside, Jack,
I compliment you on your article 
and particularly Hey man, How 
would you like to take a nice deep 
toke... on this here automobile 
exhaust hose? Jack -superb! To 
borrow a very old worn out 
phrase... watta gas. My drift... 
I am and attempt to be a practic
ing responsible cigarette smoker. 
I have been smoking about 14 
years now (I am 27 years old). Be
ing responsible means I dont 
smoke in elevators (ethics, not the 
law), buses, in places where they 
request you not to and so forth. I 
can wait 2-3 hours before I begin 
to get itchy. I normally smoke 
about 1 pack a day Winston 
Lights down from 1 pack Malboro Red a year ago. I am tapering 
off slowly. Jack, I dont think you 
flamed the article at all. I think 
you gave a helluva good reason 
why one should not smoke. And 
you took it one step better. You 
didnt really bitch about it. You 
did more like a dissertation on the 
problems of your and my health 
in a nicely detailed fashion. Con
gratulations Jack.
Joe McGovern
Rah, rah TARTAN!
Editor:
I would like to thank you and 
the entire TARTAN staff for the 
tremendous cooperation and help 
the Alumni Association and 
SARC received during Homecom
ing *79. Between advertising, news 
stories, and feature articles, the 
TARTAN proved to be a valuable 
resource that we would not have 
been able to do without.
Thanks to you and the entire 
staff, Homecoming *79 was a suc
cess.
David Wolf 
Associate Director 
Alumni Relations
Start 
Something
It has become evident that a 
lot of the controversies that excite 
this campus start right here, in the 
letters-to-the-editor section of the 
TARTAN.
The letters section is a vital 
source of controversy. Your opin 
ions, ideas, complaints, etc. re 
read by 5500 TARTAN readers 
every week.
If you write a letter-to-the-editor (and theres a good chance 
that youll be heard by the people 
youre trying to reach), just type 
if, double-spaced, and mail it 
through Campus Mail to the TAR 
TAN, Box 17. As long as letters 
are signed and coherently written 
well print them all. Names will 
be withheld upon request .
%QOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQQI)QQflQQQQQQeQOQQQQQflM8QMiWMMMMMMflMlMMMjgi

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 Tartan  November 6, 1979
Former mayor teaches in SUPA
by Ed Frankenbery
What do a local District Attorney, a city 
councilman, a Two-term mayor of Pitts
burgh and a Deputy U.S. Attorney General 
all have in common? These are positions 
held at various times by the same man, 
Peter Flaherty.
It is precisely this range of experience in 
the public sector which makes him a valu
able teacher of policy issues. Flahertys 
weekly SUPA class, Seminar in Selected 
Topics, frequently includes lessons from 
his day-to-day experience of running a 
large city.
How does the one time gubernatorial 
candidate feel about teaching? I like it, 
he replies and adds that if the [student] 
interest remains keen, he expects to offer 
the course again.
Flaherty was also affiliated with the 
School of Urban and Public Affairs last 
year when, by virtue of his legal and public 
sector experience, he joined a student/fac
ulty products liability project. This year 
Dean Otto Davis and Norman Johnson 
 thought it would be a good idea, if 
taught his own course, Flaherty explained.
The seminar concerns urban problems: 
revenue sharing, government regulation and 
urban renewal in the past few years. To
these topics, he is often asked by students 
to add a dimension from his real world 
experiene.
The advice which he offers is based on 
his handling of the issues which he former
ly handled on a daily basis. There were se
rious fiscal problems for all cities [during] 
1969-70, which took the form of  infla
tion along with a decline in tax revenue. 
Flaherty sought to  bridge the gap [with] 
an austerity program.
He was able to reduce taxes, although 
there was more than one labor dispute with 
city employees as a result . Critics charged 
that some services had declined. He achieved his campaign promise of  a bal
anced budget in 7 years, without increasing 
taxes. He feels that it was  unique at that 
time to talk about [tax] cuts.
As mayor, his goal was to reduce 
wasteful spending . . . yet at the same time 
support new projects. He managed the ci
ty like a business and aimed toward  living 
within [its] resources rather than deficit 
spending in a period when the citys tax 
base was shrinking.
A big help during this period was the 
availability of federal revenue sharing 
which Flaherty and other mayors had ac
tively sought. In 1972, lobbying by the ma
yors group paid off when Congress provid
ed aid which  helped our city and others, 
particularly since the general funds had 
no strings attached.
Another area of controversy in the Flanerty administration concerned the pro
posed Skybus form of mass transportation. 
Flaherty suggested an alternative which 
included Patways, a subway system, and 
the so-called Light Rail Vehicle. I aril a 
strong advocate of mass transit in Pitts
burgh of the steel wheel type,  he an
swered, and this is the system which has 
been adopted. Mass transit, he cau
tions, is only one portion [of the solu
tion] , as there is a need [for] good 
highways and bridges as well.
An urban renewal program known as 
Renaissance II was underway when Flaher
ty took office. Renaissance to me means 
change; a new beginning. Pittsburgh has 
made a new image as more than just an 
industrial town. He believes that today , 
Pittsburgh has a broader foundation than 
when its reputation (and tax revenue) 
was tied exclusively with steel. The city is 
now diversified industrially, culturally in 
the arts, and in its commercial enterpris
es, he stated.
In addition to his weekly seminar, FlaResponse to Rhodes'campaign is positive
by L. Vernon Valentine
Congressman Joseph Rhodes, a demo
crat representing the East Hills area of 
Pittsburgh addressed a group of students in 
the Wherrett room last Wednesday, Octo
ber 31st. Rhodes was born and raised in 
the area of his constituency.
As a candidate for the Pennsylvania 
Senate this coming year, Rhodes discussed 
prominent issues in the campaign. For for
ty-five minutes, he explained his political 
past, present, and future, as well as his 
stand on various issues.
After graduating from Westinghouse 
High School, Rhodes attended Cal Tech as 
an undergraduate, where he became active 
in student government. His political acti
vism was a result of involvement with stu
dent protests during a time of nation-wide 
campus unrest: the late sixties and early 
seventies.
He then went on to graduate school at 
Harvard. While studying Intellectual His
tory, Rhodes was asked by John Erlichmann to serve on a committee investigating 
recent eruptions of violence and student/ad
ministration clashes at universities such as 
Kent State and Jackson State.
With this background, Rhodes empha
sized his major theme of the campaign: 
The main job of serving the people is to 
protect them from force: arbitrary, un
reasonable, irrational, racist, whatever 
force unfairly used against them.
At the request of his home district 
delegates, Rhodes left the Boston area and 
came back to run for, and win, a seat in the 
General Assembly of Pennsylvania. He de
scribed his work as progressive and 
sometimes controversial.
Last year, Rhodes was a member of the 
subcommittee on Crime and Correction. 
The Assembly authorized the subcommit
tee to investigate organized crime, official 
corruption, and police violence. Specifi
cally, he was a part of the investigation of 
the Philadelphia Police Department. Sense
less use of violence by law enforcement 
doesnt stop, said Rhodes, and my j[og as 
a public official has always been to resist 
that.
Reforms in the Juvenile court system 
have also been a focus of the Congressman. 
About the general manner of Juvenile cor
rection, Rhodes stated that there is some
thing sick about a certain mentality that 
has to control, that cant allow any human 
behavior, anything different.
Other primary issues in Rhodes cam
paign are controls over nuclear power and 
the increase in imported coal. On nuclear 
power, Rhodes took no pro or con stance. 
Rather, he stated the main issue as who 
should decide what is safe. The people, 
says Rhodes, should have basic control 
over the establishment of safety design
Private funding increases
WASHINGTON, D.C. (CPS)-Colleges and 
university took in a record $3.04 billion 
in private contributions in 1978, according 
to the Council for Financial Aid to Educa
tion. Some $700 million of the total came 
from corporate contributors.
The increases in both categories were 
in line with colleges intensified fund
raising among private sources and with 
hardening business attitudes about sup
porting college programs. Many colleges 
have come to depend more on business 
funding sources that are not, according to 
theory, subject to the tax-cutting whims 
of state legislators and the federal govern
ment.
But the amount of corporate invest
ment in academia is also dependent on 
public events. The CFAE notes in its 
report that the future growth of volun
tary support is less dependent on developments in higher education itself than it 
is on the economic health of the nation 
at large.
Bostons Committee for Corporate 
Support of Private Universities released 
a study in June showing that a majority 
of business executives favor increasing the 
amounts of money corporations give 
higher education, while decreasing the per
centage of funds provided by the federal 
government.
One reason for the corporate willing
ness to contribute may be that 75 percent 
of the executives interviewed resented the 
liberal slant of most college programs, 
and said academics were too critical of 
business.
The level of private funding, according 
to CFAE, lias now reached the point 
at which each college student in 1978 was 
subsidized by about $270 in ouside sup
port.
Former Pittsburgh mayor Pete Flaherty.
herty does election night political analysis 
for KDKA and is a partner with the law 
firm Berkman, Ruslander, Pohl, Lieber and 
Engel. He finds life in the private sector to 
be comfortable and feels that you can 
guide your life better. In contrast, public 
life requires a lot of evening appearances - 
it can be a demaning thing that way. I 
enjoy my family he says.
What does the future hold for Peter 
Flaherty? I like what Im doing, he 
explained, so  it would take something 
very interesting for him to reenter public 
life. Does running for Senator sound suf
ficiently interesting? You never say ne
ver, he said with a smile.
criteria. On foreign coal, Rhodes pointed 
out that 10% of the steel industrys coking 
coal is imported, while vast amounts of 
usable coal remain in the area. Rhodes 
cited disincentive on the part of the 
corporations... who choose to spend their 
money in other places rather than invest in 
coking ovens as a major reason for the in
crease in foriegn coal importation.
Rhodes feels that response to his cam
paign has been amazingly positive!Accoring to the Congressman,the critical period 
of the democratic primary is between now 
and the first of next year. It is during this 
time period that committees and fund 
raising activities must be organized.
Although the race for the seat is de
scribed as side open, Rhodes expressed 
confidence: If I show movement, I will 
win. Finally, the congressman urged every
one present to reach out to the rest of the 
community at CMU and start organizing.
The event, presented by SPIRIT and 
funded by Student Senate, was free and 
open to the public.
Contest announced
Carnegie Mellon students are invited to 
participate in GLAMOUR Magazines 1980 
Top Ten College Women Competition. 
Young women from colleges and univer
sities throughout the country will compete 
in GLAMOURS search for ten outstand
ing students. A panel of GLAMOUR 
editors will select the winners on the basis 
of their solid records of achievement in 
academic studies and/or for achievements 
in personal campus or community activi
ties. Past winners have been involved in 
the biological sciences, judicial intern
ships, politics, music, athletics, and in the 
media.
The 1980 Top Ten College Women will 
be featured in GLAMOURS August Col
lege issue. During May, June or July, the 
ten winners will come to New York on an 
all-expense-paid trip to meet the GLAM
OUR staff, receive a $500 cash prize, visit 
some of the citys finest restaurants, night
spots, and cultural centers, and meet with 
a top professional in their field.
Anyone who is interested in entering 
the search should contact Edmund 
Delaney. Dept, of Public Relations (BH 
160) for more information. The deadline 
for submitting an application to GLAM
OUR is December 14. 1979.
Short Courses - Course Modules' 
November 7:
2:00 Structural Systems in Dessign 
3:45 Material Selection and Component
Sciences 
', Jg $vember 7-9,1979
animim
Hi -
9:00 Methods in Computer Aided 
Design
10:30 The Economics of Urban Land 
Development
1:30 User Responsive Environment De
cision Making . llllllllll
2:45 ABS Projects
Conference - Urban Rehabilitation and 
Energy Conservation  - '
9:00-5:30 
A series 
state and local perspectives.
Papers presented from 
senting research and projects 
fane^jljid ipen forums.
UJF campaign
A luncheon to organize this years cam
pus campaign of the United Jewis Federa
tion (UJF) will be held at noon tomorrow 
at Bnai Brith Hillel, 315 South Bellefield 
St.
The campus campign is a fund-raising 
project lasting from January to April and is 
run entirely by students. Students have the 
chance not only to contribute to and im
portant cause, but also to learn about the 
issues of major concern to the Jewish com
munity today, such as Israels social and 
political concerns and the problems of 
Russian immigrants who come to Pitts
burgh, says Rachel Snyder, staff coordin
ator for the campus campaign. The money 
supports local social service organizations 
and also those in Europe and Israel.
For more information and reservations 
for the November 7 luncheon meeting, 
please call 521 -8875 or 421 -2131.

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1979TARTANPage 5
Cyert: 'We should not have a workload that is dogwork!'
by Doug Kirsop
Im just convinced that an engineer 
who knows literature, history, and politics 
will be a better engineer, and certainly a 
better person, said Richard Cyert, Presi
dent of CMU.
Cyert, a guest on WRCT-FMs Profiles 
on Parade talk show, discussed a wide 
range of university related issues, as well as 
responding to callers comments and ques
tions.
The hour began with a discussion of 
money. Cyert expressed his opinion on the 
Activities Fee, saying that it should be 
increased. He cited the fact that it has only 
gone up ten dollars in the last 30 years.
Questions regarding both intercollegiate 
and IM sports arose several times during 
the hour. In response to a callers question 
about expanding the current athletic fac
ilities, Cyert said he sees no expansion on 
1 the immediate horizon. Pointing out the 
fact that we do what we do extremely 
well, he said, One thing I dont want to 
do is something poorly. He also has no 
plans to leave the league we are in, stating, 
A lot of schools are giving a free ride to 
athletes. Students are here to learn and to 
graduate.. In summing up the issue of 
intercollegiate sports he said, Im just very 
happy where we are.
Mark Andrews, host of the show, asked 
Cyert to verify a rumor that astroturf was 
going to be put on the IM field. Cyert ex
plained that the astroturf might be one 
way... to improve our facilities without
spending huge amounts of money. He 
cautioned, however, that I like to have 
lots of questions explored before I make a 
decision -- this does not mean a decision is 
eminent.
Another caller asked about Cyerts 
position on the Jane Fonda-Tom Hayden 
lecture, and if the trustees actually ex
pressed as much disdain for the pair as 
reported in the TARTAN. Cyert said, I 
indicated very strongly that we should 
have both sides of the issue [pro and antinuclear]- thats the objective were trying 
to learn. Although some of the trustees 
felt having Fonda and Hayden speak here 
might discourage some research gifts and 
grants, Cyert said that If we have to be 
poorer, but closer to the ideal of a univer
sity, then we will be poorer.
He acknowledged that Earle Swank, 
Dean of Student Affairs, had instructed the 
two that no political material was to be 
distributed. In retrospect, he said, he felt 
that that was not a good idea. I dont 
favor that, he concluded.
Commenting on the amount of work 
required from the typical CMU student, 
Cyert said, There is no question that we 
have (at times) too heavy of a workload. 
He also stated that many people have 
made it, and are making it.
There is a lot for students to learn in 
extracurricular activities...but these are 
things that for one reason or another many 
students do not experience, he said.
We should not have a workload that is
NASA will select students
Scientific and professional organizations 
are being invited to a workshop late this 
month to draw up plans for a proposed 
competition to select college student ex
periments to be flown aboard NASAs 
Space Shuttle in the 1980s. Plans for a 
high school student program are being 
worked on separately.
Dr. Glen P. Wilson, special assistant for 
student activities in the Office of Exter
nal Relations, heads the NASA Student 
Activities Steering Committee, the lead 
group in coordinating the workshop.
The workshop is being organized for 
NASA by the Forum for the Advancement 
of Students in Science and Technology, 
Inc., which represents a network of organ
izations and some 13,000 individuals.
WRCT-FM, 88.3, will rebroadcast 
the entire Jane Fonda - Tom Haydenj 
lecture and question session tonight. 
The 70 minute program is this week's! 
"Profiles on Parade forum, and will 
begin at 7:50 PM.
Interested in History?
Thinking about taking a History 
course in the spring?
Come and talk History with 
students and faculty.
Thursday, Nov. 8 at 4:30 pm 
in the H&SS Lounge.
2nd floor of Baker Hall.
Cheese and punch will be served.
Sponsored by Phi Alpha Theta 
(History Honorary Society)
dogwork, he explained, we need to get 
away from things that involve memory, 
and toward things that involve thinking. 
We are trying to turn out thinking human 
beings.
On other educational issues, Cyert ex
pressed his support for final exams. As an 
educator, I see their value as a review 
tool. He alsq said that they should not be 
grade exclusive, with the greatest part of 
the grade for a particular course resting on 
the final.
Questions also arose regarding the dual 
role of professors as teachers and research
ers. Cyert agreed there is a fair amount of 
pressure exerted on faculty to get research 
contracts. But this is something that comes 
to a great extent from the individual - if
you are a researcher in a field, you want to 
get the research contract.
When a caller said that some of his pro
fessors say that they do not have enough 
time to prepare for class because they 
are too busy with their research, Cyert said 
he felt that was probably not a valid ex
cuse. Agreeing with the caller that teach
ing is an art, Cyert explained that research 
is usually necessary, but not sufficient for 
good teachers. Contrary to what he 
believes is common thinking, Cyert said 
that the University does not let people go 
who are good researchers but poor tea
chers.
Cyert concluded by saying that he is not 
looking for another job, and that he has no 
explicite plans to leave CMU.
SUPA Dean resigns
Preliminary plans call for starting com
petition by the fall of 1980 in order to se
lect winners in the spring of 1981 and to 
develop the experiments in the summer 
and fall. The experiments then might be 
flown in late 1981 or 1982, depending on 
how long it takes to prepare them
Wilson noted that in the 1976 Viking 
mission to Mars, some 50 or more students 
were selected from colleges and universities 
around the country and went to Pasadena, 
California, to work in the projects.
Senate report
. by Edna Kunkel
At the October 30 Student Senate meet
ing, Dean Swank said that more students 
are needed to serve on the Student Disci
plinary Committee. The Philosophy Club 
requested and was given recognized, sup
ported status.
The United Way Campaigns Dollar Day 
will be held on November 9. After much 
discussion, a proposal for a referendum to 
increase the activities fee was passed. This 
referendum will take place on Wednesday, 
December 5 in the usual Senate voting 
areas.
continued from page 1
security as an independant college; masters 
class growth from 20 in*74 to 40 in *79 
(with hopes for 60 by next year); an inno
vative, financially-stronger research program, 
thoughthe long run has some clouds over 
it.; national recognition as a top manage
ment school; growth of faculty, and; 
attraction of new endowment monies. The 
last has not yet been accomplishe, but 
Davis still has some hope.
Davis defends SUPAs public manage
ment program as innovative and out
standing, and becomes discouraged when 
the college seems to be bad mouthed
on its own campus. He blames this for 
the low application rate to SUPA, among 
CMU undergrads. 'We have one third the 
faculty of GSIA, yet more research dollars 
and our grads jobs will dominate them if 
looked at, says Davis. With higher enroll
ment projected for next year in SUPA, 
Davis feels he should also expand the 
faculty more before leaving.
Last year, Provost Arnold Weber report
edly moved to divide SUPAs resources 
among GSIA and a few undergraduate 
departments. That divisioning did not 
occur. Davis says, I think I have been a 
continued on page 10
TARTAN Production 
Staffers do it all 
Weekend!!
CAMPOS STORES CORNER
WATCH FOR THIS CORNER EACH WEEK 
FOR THE CAMPUS STORES TRIVIA QUESTION.
Submit your entry in the Bookstore and the Art Store, either on the 
coupon below or on a 3 x 5 card stating the question number together 
with your answer.
The weekly answer will be posted in the Bookstore and the Art Store. 
Each week's winner will go into the Grand Jack-Pot drawing to be held 
in the Bookstore on Friday, Dec. 14, 1979 at 3:00 p.m.
Prizes Include: 8 Track Home Stereo Tape player by Electra: Olympiette Portable Typewriter; Solid State Cassette Tape Recorder AC/DC 
8000 by Soundwa ve; 8 Track Car Stereo by Federal; Pleaser Instant 
Camera by Kodak; Three Piece Corning Ware Set; Gillette Supermax 
Swivel Round Brush Styling Dryer 1000 Watts; 2 Piece Chefmaster 
Cutlery Set; Texas Instrument LED Watch; English Leather Buckle and 
Cologne Gift Set; English Leather Cologne for Women - Embracing; 
$50.00 Gift Certificates from the Art Store and/or the Bookstore 
Calligraphy Drawing Set.emu bookstoretrivia question
TRIVIA QUESTION #6 
Who was the Baby Ruth candy bar named after?
ANSWER 
Name___Address
I CI JO

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6TARTANNovember 6, 1979
Adam Imiolek
My name is Adam Imiolek. Im a fresh
man biology student in MIS. I would like 
an opportunity to continue serving the 
Student Body as a representative. I served 
this past term as a first alternate to Art 
Benjamin, the only freshman senator. Dur
ing my term, I would like to increase stu
dent influence on university policy. I am 
also trying to improve communication be
tween the students and their student gov
ernment. If I do become a senator, I will 
always be open to suggestions from my 
fellow students.
Eric Butler
Student Senate is an arena where the 
students opinions, ideas, and complaints 
are voiced and acted upon. To have an 
effective student senate the voice of the 
student must be heard. I am running for 
CIT student senator for the primary pur
pose of giving the constituents a medium 
upon which to transfer their ideas and 
opinions to Student Senate. My whole 
purpose and objective as a Senator will 
be to serve the students of this Univer
sity.
Michael Inners
Student Senate is a potentially effective 
voice of the students. In order to realize 
this potential, Senate must obtain more 
input from the students. The Senate must 
provide strong support for the student 
representatives on various University com
mittees, particularly the Tuition Commit
tee.
I believe the Senate can become very 
effective in getting Administration action 
on student concerns by working closely
with the student representatives on Uni
versity committees providing informa
tion, assisting in determining the wishes of 
the students, and providing active support.
I have been an active Senator for two 
years, and participated in the Senate fact
finding committee that assisted the Tuition 
Committee student representatives last 
year. I will continue to participate in any 
attempt to obtain Administration decisions 
in the students interst. Vote for an active 
Senator.
Jeffrey Diton
I am running for MIS senator because I 
feel its time we had someone to represent 
us. It bothers me that the Student Senate 
of this school seems to be invisible: 
especially the MIS Senators. I dont feel 
represented, and because of this I feel 
cheated.
When in the course of human events the 
government breaks its social contract with 
the people it is time for social upheaval and 
change. A vote for me is a vote for the 
continuation of the social contract.
Stephen Hrinya
Student senate needs people who know 
about student senate. Last year, I ran for 
senate with some very naive notions about 
senate and its powers. I wasnt elected. 
Afterwards, I repetitioned to fill a vacant 
seat and was chosen for the position. Be
cause of this I have gained three valuable 
months of senate experience, and some exKim Ames
My name is Kim Ames and I am a 
sophomore chemistry major running for an 
MIS Senate seat. There are several reasons 
I am doing this.
First, I dont think there is enough of 
an interaction between Senate and the 
student body. Few people ask the students 
opinion and I believe this is wrong. Also 
Senate meetings and important topics of 
discussion are not publicized well enough. 
The results of the .meetings are made
known either through The TARTAN or 
some other means, and I would like to 
change this.
Also, many students dont have time to 
go to meetings but they have many com
plaints. As a senator I would be willing to 
listen to your complaints and take them to 
the meetings for discussion.
Thus, I hope to be able to bring the stu
dent. body and Student Senate closer 
together for the good of both.
Ricardo Izquierdo
My name is Washington Ricardo 
Izquierdo. I am a freshman here at CMU, 
and my major is Electrical Engineering.
My objective and purpose for running 
for Student Sentate is to try to make the 
student body of C-MU more involved and 
conscientious of what is offered here at 
C-MU. I know that inquiries will underlie 
these involvements. I feel that I can repre
sent and acknowledge those inquiries with 
the help and support of the student body 
as well as from the members of the Stu
dent Senate.
Edna Kunkel
Some students believe that there is abso
lutely nothing wrong here at CMU, but 
most students are able to find something 
that could be improved, changed, or drop
ped. If you are a member of the latter 
group, you want a way to convey your 
feelings and opinions with some authority. 
You want someone to listen to your sueAsk not what you can do for your candidate...

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1979TARTANPage 7
...but ivhat your candidate am do for you
Walt Young
We, the GSIA student body, although 
comparitively small in numbers, are vital 
contributors to the University. There is a 
need for the interests and needs of the 
GSIA student community to be met. As 
liaison to the GSIA community and the 
administration, I am seeking to be elected 
as GSIA representative to the university 
senate.
Presently, there is an effort on campus 
to pass the Linnett Amendment. This ammendment was formulated by a student 
named Linnette, who wanted his activity
fee money to go to a special interest account and not to the general activity fund. 
If passed, our activity fees would directly 
benifit us\ instead of filtering out to the 
activities benefiting undergrads or other 
areas of little concern to our department 
(and we thought the days of taxation with
out representation were over!). I am in 
favor of passage of this amendment and 
would work toward its application.
Qualifications:
1. Held leadership positions in various 
organizations in the past.
2. Have contact with the university as 
Head Resident (a supervisory role in the 
Office of Resident Life).
3. I like to get involved in student 
government.
Goals
1. Represent GSIA interests in univer
sity decisions.
2. Get involved in CMUs student 
government.
3. Make sure our money goes to us.
On Nov. 7,8 at Skibo, Vote Walt Young 
GSIA Senator.
perience on the senate finance committee. 
I am running for the senate because I 
would like a chance to finish a full term. I 
feel that I could do a good job because I 
have seen in depth how the senate is run, 
and what its problems are. If I were to be 
elected to the senate, I would do my best 
to help the senate realize the students de
sires in a more efficient way.
Laurie Elm
Sure, theres time enough to voice a 
pet peeve if someone in the general vicin
ity is willing to listen. But with a 24 
hour day, thats all the time one can 
spare. Dont lose hope; there is a solu
tion. I, Laurie Elm, a sophomore in
Metallurgy and Materials Science, would 
devote my time to correcting the problem, 
whether its academic or social. Although 
Ive had a Senate seat for only one month
(having filled a vacancy) the experience 
has made me aware of the lack of commun
ication between the colleges and their 
respective representatives. I intend to 
keep CIT informed about the Senate 
activities and expect CIT, in return, to 
express opinions on campus issues (bud
geting activities fee and academic cur
riculum), thus enabling me to make the 
best decisions concerning those issues.
Jerry Ritchie
In my three years at CMU I have come 
to know how the students feel and what 
they think is important. It is with this 
knowledge that I am seeking a seat in Stu
dent Senate. I believe that the students are 
not all apathetic and that they really do 
care about what happens at CMU. I also 
believe the Student Senate can be a useful 
channel in expressing students views and a 
means of obtaining their wishes. If I get the 
opportunity to represent you, my main 
drive will be to help Senate become not 
just another channel, but one students can 
rely on.
gestions, even though some people may 
consider them too trivial for action.
1 know from experience that what 
seem small can actually be something that 
should be acted upon. I want to listen to 
your ideas and get you response to acti
vities or problems on campus. I have served 
on Student Senate for a semester and want 
to continue serving you.
Darryl Gray
My name is Darryl Gray and Im run
ning for CIT Senate representative. This 
position is very important and demanding, 
so it needs to be filled with a competent 
individual. I definitely feel that Im this 
individual. Here are just a few of my 
qualifications. Ive participated in my high 
school student government. I was a partici
pant in Close-Up 1979, a program which 
enables a student to get a better per
spective of how our government is run.
Being a freshman here at C-MU has 
given me an insight on the perplexities that 
freshman face as well as the other perplex
ities that confront the student body. As 
Senate representative, I feel that I can 
help solve some of these problems. With 
your assistance, I can change some of the 
things that need changing. Im a candidate 
who is willing to work with the people and 
for the peoples benefit. The only thing 
that I need is your support. So vote for 
Darryl Gray for CIT Senate representative.
Chuck Friedlander
A student government, such as our Stu
dent Senate, is vital to the needs of the stu
dent body. It helps coordinate student acti
vities as well as acting as a liason to the 
administration.
As a Senator, I hope to help the stu
dents of CMU to a better campus life. 
The feelings of the students about courses, 
housing, food services, and auxiliary ser
vices can help Warner Hall make better 
decisions about changes and improvements in those areas. By more efficient 
spending, we can devote more of our 
efforts to establish a variety of activities 
for the students of CMU and help current 
Senate funded activities fulfill the needs 
of the student body.
Above all, the Student Senate should be 
the government of the students of CMU. 
Only by voting for Senators and active 
participation in student government, can 
we help to make this campus a better 
environment for education.
Carl Freedman
No photograph or text available for this 
candidate.
Scott Miller
I am running for a seat on Student 
Senate in the college of CIT, to help you, 
the students, get the things you want done. 
I have been on Student Senate for over two 
years, and I have been Chairman of Senate 
for a year and a half. In being on Senate 
for such a long time I have learned how to 
get things done and in being Chairman I 
have had the opportunity to get things 
done for the students.
Ive helped to defeat a proposal for plus 
or minus grading after you, the students, 
voiced your opinion against it. Ive fought 
for special referendums that let you decide 
how much you want to raise the Activities
fee. I am fighting for a real Student Union 
for the students of CMU. Skibo is not a 
Student Union, but merely an extension of 
Warner Hall for Food Service.
It is my belief that Senate should inter
act more closely with the student body 
and that Senate should address the big pro
blems that affect a large number of stu
dents. The Activities fee, the Student 
Union problem, and local commuter trans
portation are just a few of the problems 
Senate should look into more actively.
So on Nov. 7 & 8 vote for SCOTT A. 
MILLER and Ill work for you, and vote 
for you, the students.

---------------------------------------------------

SANDBOX SENATE? 
HELP BUILD A
STUDENT; SENATE ELECTIONS  NOV. 78 8 MOREWOD DONNER SKIBO
C IT3 SEATS
ERIC RUTLER 
LAURIE ELM
*
DARRYL K. GRAY
STEPHEN J. HRINYA
WASH INGTON R. 
IZQUIERDO
SCOTT A. MILLER
C FA S SEATS
CARL FREEDMAN
GSIA 1 SEAT
H. WALTER YOUNG
H&SS
JERRY
1 SEAT
RICHIE
KURT M. SAUNDERS
SUPA1 SEAT
RORIN SMITH
MIS - 3 SEATS
KIMRERLEY A. AMES
JEFFREY E. DITON
CHARLES R. FRIEDLANDER
ADAN IMIOLEK
MICHAEL INNERS 
EDNA KUNKEL
MITCHELL S.
SILVERSTEIN
MOREWOOD / MUDGE RESIDENTS - VOTE IN MOREWOOD GARDENS
HILL / APARTMENT RESIDENTS - VOTE IN DONNER HALL 
FRAT / OFF-CAMPUS - VOTE IN SKIRO -funded by student activities fee---------------------------------------------------

November e, iy/y-1ARTANPage 9
These Philippine dancers demonstrated native dances for alumni at one of a series ot international 
Dinners.
Berg chairs energy panel
SDC Space
In tune with the current of heightened 
energy-consciousness in America, CarnegieMellon has joined the conservation effort 
with the creation of a University Energy 
Committee.
CMU President Richard M. Cyert has 
appointed Daniel Berg, Dean of the Mellon 
Institute of Science, to chair the group. 
Members - include administrators and 
faculty from each college on campus, and 
representatives of CMUs staff and student 
body.
Over ten percent of the educational 
budget at CMU goes for utilities such as 
heating, lighting and air conditioning, 
says Berg. And those costs are controlled 
largely by students, faculty, and staff 
themselves.
Berg believes that money should be 
saved not by cutting activities, but by 
stopping energy waste. Everyones a 
winner if we stop wasting this tremedously 
costly item. With the money saved, tuition 
might be kept down, facilities could be 
improved, and salaries might be increased.
The committee, which was organized in 
August, meets occassionally to brainstorm 
on energy-saving ideas and get reports from 
memebers on progress in different areas. A 
number of subcommittees have been and 
are being formed to deal with specific pro
blems.
Joseph McNally, Assistant Director of 
Physical Plant, already has named a num
ber of projects planned and underway. 
One of them, the recent installation of 
timer devices on lighting fixtures in many 
classrooms on campus, is nearing comple
tion and is being evaluated.
In other areas, a special maintenance 
program may be undertaken as a measure 
against energy waste. The Cost Effective
ness Committee is assessing the value of 
using a consulting firm to check-list 
energy conservation problems. The 
campus lighting situation will be studied by 
a subcommittee being formed by 
Chemistry Professor Truman Kohman.
Dean Berg does not believe, however, 
that the situation can be dealt with effect
ively by the committee alone. We need 
the ideas and cooperation of everyone on 
campus, and the students in particular, 
he says. One way he expects to solicit 
such ideas will be through a contest 
where students will be awarded prizes 
for the best energy conservation sugges
tions. Details for that and other updates 
on the work of the University Energy 
Commission will be included in up
coming TARTANS.
New accounting 
system 
implemented
by Andre Jenkins
The Accounting Office in Warner Hall 
has recently changed its system of accoun
ting. The new computer-based system is 
tied to the DEC20 A system in Science 
Hall which replaced the IBM 370 last year. 
According to Ed Hunia of the accounting 
office, the system required new software 
packages suitable for use on the DEC20 
system. The software (programs, codes, 
and other written information), was sup
plied and modified by Management Science 
of America which is one of the largest com
mercial software suppliers in the country. 
CMU is the first university to use the com
mercial software for its accounting system.
by Ken Kulak
The last SDC meeting was held on 
Halloween in the Wherrett Room. Jerry 
Marks and Claudia Geraci spoke about the 
China sales campaign which is still pres
suring CMU'students. They reported that 
some students had already been stuck with 
buying the expensive China set ($875.00), 
and urged students to be very wary of sim
ilar sales efforts.
Several SDC committees requested more 
student input as they begin to make 
important decisions concerning student life 
on campus. SDC Housing Committee is 
emphasizing the lounge survey by Gerry 
Dalton, Director of Housing, and asked for 
students to get involved in deciding what 
the lounges should become. Bill Gould, 
Chairperson of the Food Service Com
mittee, mentioned that John Eichmuller, 
Director of Food Service, is trying to do 
whatever possible to solve problems 
brought to his attention, and urged that 
anyone who has a suggestion or complaint 
should be, sure to make it known to their 
SDC rep., or Food Service itself.
The Margaret Morrison Appartment 
Forum was held last week, and the panel 
of CMU officials responded favorably to 
many of the students' comments and 
requests. The heating problem will hope
fully be solved as soon as the permanent 
heating system is implemented. In the 
meantime, several apartments have been
given space heaters. Security screens are 
also going to be placed on living room 
windows. An SDC committee will be 
surveying the furnishings of the dormitory 
rooms, and a special housing group will be 
investigating the rate structure for the new 
apartments.
Jim Balsom made a motion to form a 
committee to check up on the petition by 
students in the new apartments for resti
tution due to Housings alleged breech of 
contract. Reportedly, the petition is still 
being evaluated by Warner Hall.
Appropriations made during the 
meeting included:
$250.00 for a Thanksgiving party on the 
Hill; $250.00 for a new ping pong table in 
Doherty; $115.00 in wages for the Hallo
ween Party disc jockey; $72.00 for a 12 
inch mirrored ball for SDC dances.
Vending Services reported that soda and 
juice machines are being installed in 
Hammerschlag, and that a laundry ticket 
dispenser has been placed behind the 
Donner Desk. The question of microwave 
ovens was raised and it was suggested that 
they be installed on a trial basis in the 
major dormitories.
The upcoming Blood Drive will be held 
on November 14 and 15. Faculty, staff, 
and students are urged to donate blood on 
those days in Skibo, where the drive will 
be set up.
The next meeting will be on November 
7, at 7:00 in the Wherrett Room, Skibo.
ALONE AND PREGNANT?
A caring, confidential friend, 
LIFELINE, DOWNTOWN PITTSBURGH 
562-0543. Free Pregnancy Testing. 
Evening Hours Available
over $1 million
Harry J Gray. Chairman and President
Last year, we gave our engineers 
$439 million for research and develop
ment. And over the next five years, our 
commitment will total more than $2.5 
billion.
So if youd like to talk about how 
you can help spend over a million dol
lars a day, these United Technologies 
divisions
 Hamilton Standard
 Sikorsky Aircraft
 Norden Systems
will be interviewing on campus 
Tuesday, November 13.
Consult your placement office 
for sign-up information and degree/ 
field of study requirements.
UNITED
TECHNOLOGIES
An equal opportunity employer
WATCH FOR THE 
HUGHES 
RECRUITER VISITING 
YOUR CAMPUS SOON.
Contact your placement office 
for interview dates.
; HUGHESi i__________________________i
Creating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10TARTANNovember 6,1979
Architecture conference to be held here
by Stuart Seidman
On November 15, 16, & 17, the depart
ment of Architecture will be hosting a 
nationwide conference entitled Represen
tation and Architecture. The conference, 
held as part of the autumn meeting of the 
Association of Collegiate Schools of Archi
tecture (ACSA) of the northeast region, 
will be bringing some of the leading archi
tects in the country to the CMU campus.
Accompanying the conference will be 
an exhibit of work by students and faculty 
in the CMU Architecture department. The 
exhibit is organized around the conference 
theme and will display examples of how 
architects can present designs in unconven
tional ways. The exhibit will be held in the 
Hewlett Gallery off of the lobby of the 
Fine Arts Building.
The keynote speaker of the conference 
will be Michael Graves. He will be giving a 
lecture on Friday morning entitled Saving 
Face. Currently of Princeton, New Jersey, 
Graves has had several of his projects pub
lished.
Other featured speakers in the confer
ence include Susana Torre, Nicholas
Patricios, Kenneth Warriner, Peter Schnei
der, and CMU faculty members Douglas 
Cooper, Raymond Gindroz, Delbert High
lands, and Charles Eastman.
Planning for the conference started last 
March when Omar Akin was appointed the 
conference chairman. The conference is 
held every fall at a different school. Akin 
explained that CMU volunteered to host
this years conference since the department 
felt that it was finally our turn.
We want to make this something 
worthwhile, Akin said, explaining that 
this years conference will be the largest in 
several years. After the conference, a book 
will be published reviewing the results of 
the conference and with illustrations from 
the exhibit.
The conference is being viewed as impportant to the education of the students in 
the Architecture department, and students 
have been actively involved in the planning 
since the beginning. Also, all architecture 
department classes will be cancelled on 
November 16 so that students will be able 
to attend conference sessions.
Marg. Morr. residents voice complaints
by Jim Balsom and L. Vernon Valentine
Last Tuesday, residents of the new Mar
garet Morrison Apartments met with six 
University officials to discuss the questions 
and complaints raised by these residents 
over the new apartments, and about 50% 
of the 192 residents attended.
The first issue discussed was the heating 
system. As of now, all heating units have 
been set so that the fan runs continuously. 
The temperature of the water running 
through the pipes is then adjusted by main
tenance according to the amount of heat 
desired. According to Cushing Phillips, Di
rector of Physical Plant, the current soluEight teenage students at the Hitchin 
Boys School in Hertford, England, have 
been suspended for wearing their hair too 
short. This very short hair is becoming a 
cult and Im determined to stop it, said 
headmaster John Gray. It is a matter of 
internal school discipline. Gray said most 
of the boys who were suspended had 
shaved off all but one strip of hair, leaving 
a Mohican style haircut. Another of
those suspended, Keven Ovenden, 15, had 
a conventional crew cut. They used to 
complain about it being too long,  said 
Kevins father, Alfred Ovenden.I told 
the headmaster, I thought the boys hair 
was fine. He is neat and tidy and wears the 
regulation school uniform. The head
master was unmoved. He said all eight 
students could return when their hair had 
grown to an acceptable length.
tion is only temporary. He said several al
ternatives are being considered in an effort 
to permanently correct the problem.
Eventually, the temperature sensing 
bulb of the thermostat will be placed on 
the outside of the heating unit, allowing 
more accurate measurement of room tem
perature.
Oscar Mayer, Acting Director of Auxili
ary Services, said that he thought the resi
dents should be able to control the tem
perature themselves, so he favors placing a 
thremostat in easy access to the residents of 
each apartment. No date was given as to 
when these improvements would be com
pleted.
Residents also questioned the status of a 
petition they had sent to Warner Hall. The 
petition charges the University with breech 
of contract under the terms of the Housing 
License Agreement. The contract states 
that, among other things, each student will 
be provided a desk and bookcase from the 
day he/she moves into the accommodations 
In some instances, these two items for the
NOWYOUCAN EARN OVER $6,500 
WITH ARMY ROTC.
Before you graduate from college! Because now, you can com
bine service in the Army Reserve or National Guard with Army 
ROTC. Its called the Simultaneous Membership Program (SMr). 
And, depending on your academic year when you enter, SMP 
can help you earn over $6,500.
Heres how it works. If you qualify and a vacancy is available, 
you become a member of an Army Reserve or National Guard unit 
as an officer trainee and, at the same time, enroll in the Army 
ROTC advanced course at your college. Your Reserve or Guard 
membership will pay you at the minimum level of Sergeant E-5, and 
youll receive $100 a month during the regular school year as an 
Army ROTC advanced course cadet.
At the end of your second year of advanced ROTC, youll be 
commissioned a second lieutenant and, assuming theres a vacancy, 
serve with a Guard or Reserve unit while you complete the require
ments for your college degree. Upon graduation, you may con
tinue service with a Guard or Reserve unit while pursuing your 
civilian career, or you can, if you prefer, compete tor active duty as 
an Army officer.
So if 
get into 
For further information,
Science at your school.
ARMY ROTC ARMY NATIONAL GUARDI ARMY RESERVE.
MM residents did not arrive until 26 days 
into the semester.
Gerald Dalton, Director of Housing, said 
that the contract for the desks and book
cases was not cancelled because a new or
der would have taken from two to three 
more months.
The University' cannot stop a student 
from going to Small Claims Court, said 
Yvonne McCredie, Student Iiason for Aux
iliary Services, but that' That was some
thing each student would have to decide 
for himself. SDC will begin to meet with 
the Administration to work out a settle
ment on behalf of the MM residents. They 
hope to have the problem resolved by 
Thanksgiving.
Some residents also complained about 
the fee rate of the new apartments. Every
one living in the two bedroom, four occu
pant units pays the same rent. The apart
ments that face the courtyard, however, 
have a smaller living area than those which 
face the Roselawn Apartments. SDC will 
look into the matter presently, and report 
back to the residents as soon as possible, 
said SDC President Jim Balsom.
General maintenance problems were al
so discussed, and residents were told to re
port any problems they are aware of to 
the Housing Office. Housing will then turn 
this list over to the Contractor. Students 
were told that these problems should be 
looked into within a week or two.
Both students and administrators in
volved were pleased with the program and 
what it accomplished. Regret was ex
pressed that the meeting had not happened 
earlier in the year.
Other informal discussions between re
sidents of the dormitory system and the 
administration are being planned by SDC 
for later this year.
SUPA Dean
continued from page 5
good administrator, even a clever one, 
despite all that Weber did.
On October 31, President Cyert again 
reaffirmed to the SUPA community, that 
they will remain an independent and grow
ing entity on campus. He also said he 
hopes that Davis remains with the uni
versity.
Well definitely miss him, said one 
SUPA student SUPA will not be the same 
without him as Dean, thats impossible.
TARTAN 
news staff
today 
7 pm 
Skibo 50
CALL 578-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCE
SKIBO 40A

---------------------------------------------------

Grappling with grading
Sieve Conroy
(**$
by Ellis Cohen 
Every Student is Brilliant
The sleeziest, mealiest worm in the rot
ten apple of grading is the idea that grades 
reflect inherent differences in learning abil
ity. Students have eaten this damn worm 
whole, and like a bad infection, they pass it 
along to one another, chirping the hit 
singles, But Im just not as smart as 
her/him or I just dont have an aptitude 
for the kazoo. Well, this is all nonsense! 
Ive found that every student in every one 
of my classes is brilliant.
Now its no secret that some students do 
perform better in school, while some get 
stuck in all kinds of ways. Even the most 
brilliant can get cloudy. It pays to know 
something about how that cloudiness 
forms so that we can do something about 
it.
First of all, as children, we started out 
learning best when we were relaxed and 
happy, when we were learning something 
important to us, when information was 
presented so that it was related to some
thing we already knew and cared about, 
and when we could talk with other people 
about what we were learning. What school 
did, a lot of the time, was teach us stuff we 
didnt want to learn, at times we didnt 
want to learn it, from materials that were 
condescending (Oh!, Oh!, See Dick run!) 
irrelevant and out of context, in an envi
ronment where we were forced to be quiet 
and constantly and anxiously attentive to 
the teacher. Is it any surprise that we were 
bored and confused a lot of the time?
Flash on the following scene: 3rd grade * 
Young Ellis is learning important dates 
in Pennsylvania History. Neither he (nor 
the teacher, it turns out) are particularly 
interested in Pennsylvania History, and 
both will forget everything about it as soon 
as they possibly can. Young Ellis is actually 
trying to forget a little faster than that. At 
the moment, he is pissed off. Instead, 
young Ellis has spaced out in class.
Contrast this with young Melissa, in the 
next seat, who is also pissed off, is also so 
well conditioned that she doesnt know it, 
but is trying very hard, nonetheless, to let 
the teacher know. The teacher, in turn, has 
charitably labelled Melissa a chronic misbehaver and has packed her off t the 
school psychiatrist. So much for poor 
Melissa.
And, back to young Ellis, who has just 
been called upon by the teacher. Why, how 
wonderful, an important question about 
Pennsylvania History! Young Ellis however, 
is blechhed out, and as a result, his answer 
is not exactly a model of crystal clear 
thinking. The drama ends as the teacher 
makes certain comments about young Ellis 
aptitude for history.
And what does young Ellis learn from 
this delightful experience? WelfT first he 
learns that hes no good at history. And 
second, he learns that the boredom and 
confusion must be his fault, reflecting his 
own failings. The current Ellis happens to 
like history, but spent many years strug
gling with Bs and Cs in history courses, 
regularly cursing himself for being unable 
to ever remember those all important dates. 
In his third year of college, he finally had a 
teacher (thank you, Ray Lorantes!) who 
opened up the possibility that history 
might really be fascinating and fun.
Each of us has had our learning inter
fered with in a thousand ways. We all 
started out as excellent learners (remember 
walking and talking) and the luckier among 
us retained the sense that we could at least 
learn some things well. The less lucky, at 
some point, be^an to believe (after being 
told enough times) that they were just
plain stupid. And Ive known people who 
retained their smarts in grade school only 
to feel so much pressure from other stu
dents (who had succumbed to the myth of 
stupidity more quickly) that they began to 
hide their abilities. They were so smart 
about hiding them that their faked confu
sion became automatic and real.
I once sat and watched a student who 
had all the necessary prerequisites for do
ing well in a programming course, but was 
really having a hard time writing programs. 
If I had paid her less attention, I might 
have given up on her. Perhaps another 
teacher might have labelled her confused or 
less brilliant and let it go at that. But as I 
watched her work on the problem, I kept 
noticing that her initial approaches were 
very perceptive - in fact brilliant - but she 
kept discarding them to try out things that 
didnt work.
I sat with her for a long time, and even
tually discovered the right mixture of lis
tening and providing information and en
couragement. She solved the problem and I 
watched her, ever so tenuously, become 
more confident in the brilliance of her own 
unique approach to programming. She still 
had difficulties in the course, but I dis
covered three things. 1) Brilliance is some
times hidden deep  if you sit with a stu
dent long enough, and if you are imagina
tive, you can encourage big chunks of it to 
surface. 2) My work with her made a big 
difference in her attitude and performance.
3) If I or the school were set up to provide 
good listening, information and encourage
ment to students like her, on a regular basis, 
then an A would be possible for absolutely 
everyone with the right prerequisites taking 
my class.
Once you start understanding that per
formance is no measure of inherent learn
ing abilities, you have to look at some of 
the other reasons why a student doesnt do 
well.
S/he doesnt have the right back
ground.
His/her learning experiences are inter
fering with his/her current learning.
The material in the course is not 
organized well.
A teachers earlier teaching and learn
ing experiences are interfering with his/her 
current teaching.
Every one of these reasons represents a 
problem that can be solved.
The Crime of the Standard Curve
Occasionally, some schools  diploma 
mills, we call them  are likened (not in a 
positive way) to a factory. I want to men
tion one of the positive aspects of a good 
factory, and then well see how universities 
measure up: A good factory ensures con
sistent high quality in its products.
Suppose you were running a factory 
that produced ovens. 10% of your ovens 
worked perfectly. 40% leaked gas. 40% 
more not only leaked gas, but buckled un
der high temperatures. 10% blew up in use. 
In America, this factory would not be in 
business for long.
If you go to the plant managers and ask 
them about these problems, one says that
they cant purchase metal strong enough 
to make buckle-proof doors. Another says 
that the welders sometimes leave hairline 
cracks in the pipes. These reasons certainly 
are plausible, but if you simply go satisfied 
back to your office, you will soon have no 
office to go back to. Instead, think about 
incorporating some process in your plant 
to strengthen the doors, and think about 
increasing the light in the welding area, or 
doing whatever you have to do to make 
sure that your ovens work.
10%, 40%, 40%, 10%  thats pretty 
close to the standard grading curve, and 
just as absurd! It makes no sense to run a 
factory in which 90% of the ovens pro
duced dont work well. It is equally sense
less to run a course in which 90% of your 
students dont master the material you are 
presenting. The standard curve mentality 
really wastes the time, skills and energy of 
a teacher  which could better be used or
ganizing learning environments in which 
students really can learn well.
Sure, students and teachers have prob
lems that interfere with good learning. 
What grading does is treat these prob
lems as inevitable and hopeless. The time 
really is ripe for us to get together and 
formulate solutions instead.
Grade deflation threatens careers
(CPS)Im working just as hard as last 
year, complains a University of Virginia 
law student, but last year 1 was an A 
student, and this year Im a B student. 
The student, who requested anonymity 
for fear of getting a bad repuatation 
among prospective employers, isnt alone. 
Last year a third of his classmates were 
A students. This year, after the law 
faculty resolved to fight grade inflation, 
only 19 percent of any class can get 
A grades. While academecians applaud 
such anti-inflationary measures as essential 
mearts of restoring grades credibility, 
students are beginning to worry that grade 
deflation might make it harder to get jobs.
When I interview next spring, ex
plains the Virginia student, I have to ex
plain why my grades are lower. 1 doubt 
many (employment recruiters) will take 
my explanation seriously.
Carolyn Jutz of the College Placement 
Council in Bethlehem, Pa. says that quite 
a number of employers have expressed 
concern over both grade inflation and 
deflation. The concern, she says, arises 
because grading standards vary so much 
from college to college that employers 
who recruit nationally end up selecting so 
many bad graduates and missing so many 
good prospects.
Lutz says that cumulative grade point 
averages have risen from 2.3 in 1969 to 
2.5 today. Other measure of how easy it 
is to get good grades are more dramatic.
Four out of every five Harvard students 
currently graduate with honors. Almost 
two-thirds of the University of North 
Carolinas class of 1977 had a three-point
or better, while the number of As 
granted doubled from 1962 to 1972. The 
freshman GPA at the University of Illinois 
inl968 was 2.67, but rose to 2.86 by 1977.
Students themselves began complaining 
that school was too easy, especially the 
sub-college level. Forty-five percent of the 
teenagers interviewed a June, 1979 Gallup 
poll said their schoolwork was too easy. 
Fifty-eight percent of the elementary 
school kids interviewed agreed.
Thus almost a quarter of the college 
class of 1982 came to campus last year 
with anA average, versus the 20 percent 
. of the class of 1981, and the 12 percent of 
the class of 1973, according to a 1979 
UCLA survey.
Employers have generally tried to adjust 
by attaching less weight to grade point 
averages than before. Many employers 
are concerned that an old measuring stick 
is not as valid as it once was, observes 
John Shingleton, placement director at 
Michigan State. But grade point avetages 
are very elusive things. Employers who 
use it if thats all they useare making 
a mistake.
It really depends he says. If they're 
going for a Ph.D physicist to develop a 
bomb and sit in a lab and use only gray 
matter, thats one thing. But if theyre 
looking for someone in marketing to sell 
a product, theyre going to fall on their 
face if they only look at GPAs.
Just when employers began adjusting to 
grade inflation, however, academicians be
gan imposing tougher grading standards.
There are some studies that show that 
faculty efforts to deflate grades are be
ginning to take .hold. A Michigan State 
University suggests the national college 
GPA fell to 2.7 last year, from 2.8 in 1974.
Efforts at grade deflation have been 
formal, as administrations mandate that 
grades are distributed according to a strict 
formula. New rules at Stephens College 
in Missouri, for example, mandate that no 
more than six percent of each senior class 
can graduate with high honors.
Some educators feel such mandates 
wont work because they dont reflect 
the realities of grading. Dean A. Garrison, 
physical science department chairman at 
Michigans Ferris State College, points out 
that most grades are awarded subjectively. 
More often than not, he wrote in Colum
bias Improving College and University 
Teaching, the student is measured against 
a set of rather private standards and, to 
a lesser extent, against the achievement of 
other students familiar to the teacher.
Yet all methods of stopping grade in
flation are threats to students chances of 
getting jobs. Virginias mandated approach 
to lowering grade levels inspired a small 
rally and a published protest just after the 
first set of grades were distributed in early 
October.
To compensate, the Universitys place
ment office put a paper explaining the new 
grading standards with each students 
transcripts . But paper or not, it still 
looks like Im not doing as well as I used 
to, observes the Virginia student.
If you had your pick of students from 
different law schools, would you take the 
guy who went from a A average to a B 
average in his last year?

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12TARTANNovember 6, 1979
John Dean's testimony
by Robert Harris
John Dean talks in Skibo about his testimony.
The unemotional monotone that char
acterized John Deans 245 page statement 
to the Senate Watergate (Ervin) Committee 
was a consciously planned facade of com
posure to hide Deans utter and complete 
dread of the consequences of his testi
mony.
Deans historic testimony took place 
on June 25, 197$ and he weathered vi
gorous cross-examination on the following 
four consecutive days. John Dean told 
what the President knew and when the 
President knew it despite threats to his 
life.
Deans life-story prior to his testimony 
though impressive by most standards, is 
trivial in comparison to what he revealed 
to the nationally televised Ervin Commit
tee on those five fateful days in June. 
The following is, believe it or not, just 
a small chronologically ordered synopsis 
of Deans testimony:
1)Dean recalled, for the Ervin Commit
tee, meetings that took place on Jan. 27 
and Feb. 4 of 1972. Both meetings took 
place in Attorney General Mitchells office. 
In those meetings, G. Gordon Liddy, coun
sel for the Nixon re-election committee, 
presented his crazy intelligence-gathering 
plans for the upcoming elections.
2)Dean recounted the episode of 
Colsons suggestion that Washingtons 
Brookings Institutuion be fire-bombed in 
order to get some politically sensitive 
papers. He then told of F.B.I. Director 
L. Patrick Gray III destroying Hunts, 
one of the news-leak-plugging White 
House plumbers, safe material. The 
safe material was evidence against Hunt. 
It contained: Chap Sticks (for your lips) 
with wires coming out of them, along 
with walkie-talkie instructions, a psycho
logical profile of Daniel Ellsburg (a Pent
agon Papers defendent) and a fake State
Department cable linking the Kennedy 
Administration with the assasination of 
South Vietnams President Diem in 1963.
3)Dean recalled a recommendation of 
Robert Mardian, former head of the 
Justice Departments Internal Security 
Division, suggesting that the C.I A. impede 
the F.B.I. investigation.
Dean told the committee that he was 
instructed by Mitchell to get Haldeman 
and Ehrlichman to allow the use of Presi
dent Nixons personal lawyer, Herbert 
Kalmbach, who raised the money to 
silence the wiretappers with bribes. Kalm
bach worked with Fred Larue, a Mississippi 
oil-millionaire, to complete the details of 
the payoff. The silencing of the wiretap
pers led to the obstruction of justice 
charges against Dean, Ehrlichman, Halde
man, Kalmbach, Larue, and Mitchell.
4)On August 29, Nixon publicly an
nounced that Dean had handed Nixon a 
report that exonerated everyone then em
ployed in the White House. Dean insists 
that he never conducted an investigation 
nor did he write such a report. At this 
time Dean became suspicious that Nixon 
was setting him up.
5)Dean acquainted the Ervin Committee 
with the La Costa Hotel Meetings near San 
Clemente. They were held just before the 
beginning of the Ervin hearings. In those 
meetings Dean, Haldeman, Ehrlichman, 
and Richard Moore, a Nixon aide, dis
cussed how to deal with the threat to the 
cover-up. They concluded to profess pub
lic cooperation with the committe, but to 
do their damnedest to impede the inves
tigation and witnesses privately.
6)From July 1970, the date of Deans 
hiring, until September 1972, when the 
First Watergate indictments were handed 
down, Dean had never had a face to face 
meeting with Richard Nixon. Immediatly after the indictments though a sudden
rash of 22 meetings was designed by Nixon 
to create a client-lawyer privilege relation
ship.
During this series of meetings Dean de
cided not to write a report on Watergate 
for Nixon because Nixon might use it 
against him. On the advice of his counsel, 
Charles Shaffer, he began a series of secret 
meetings with the Justice Department 
prosecutors.
On April 8, Dean told Haldeman that 
he was going to talk to the prosecutors. 
Haldeman gave his infamous advice, saying: 
Once the toothpaste is out of the tube, 
its going to be very hard to get it back in.
7)On April 15,1973, Nixon met with 
Dean upon Deans request. In the con
versation Dean felt he was being taped 
because Nixon categorically referred to 
several past Nixon statements and said they 
were all jokes. Nixon contended that all 
conversations with Dean were privileged 
or subject to national security or both. 
Nixon, according to Dean, did admit that 
his discussion of Executive clemency for 
Hunt with Colson was foolish.
8)On April 16,1973, Nison summoned 
Dean to his office and handed Dean two 
letters of resignation. Dean had a choice 
of signing a letter that said Dean resigned 
because of his involvement in Watergate, 
or another letter that said that Dean re
signed because of his increasing involve
ment in Watergate, Dean refused to sign 
either resignation unless Haldeman and 
Ehrlichman signed the same letters of resig
nation. Nixon was unhappy.
Nixon let Dean draft his own letter of 
resignation. Dean did so, but Dean would 
not sign it unless Ehrlichman and Halde
man signed the same letter. Nixon was 
unhappy. Dean left.
April 30, 1973 Nixon, in a televised an
nouncement fired Dean and accepted Hal
demans and Ehrlichmans resignation.
During the cross-examination, Ervin, 
Senators Inouye, Talmage, and Weicker 
were sympathetic to Dean. They wanted
Deans testimony to stand.
Three Republicans on the Senate Com
mittee, Gurney, Thompson, and Baker 
were trying to get Dean to stray from his 
prepared statement in order to catch Dean 
in a major demonstrable error that would 
make Dean appear to peijure in his testi
mony. Nixon is purported to have wanted 
the Ervin Committee Republicans to 
nail that son-of-a-bitch Dean for perjury 
and end the ball game.
At one point Dean appeared to have 
perjured in his testimony upon Gurneys 
grilling of Dean on Deans meeting with 
Kalmbach. Deans confusion was over 
which hotel, the Mayflower or Hilton in 
Washington, Dean met Kalmbach with 
the Watergate silencing payoff money. 
Originally Dean said he met Kalmbach in 
the Mayflower. Gurney showed a copy of 
Kalmbachs signature in the Hilton register. 
Dean stumbled with lame excuses.
Correspondent Dan Schorr handed 
Deans lawyer a note. The note said theres 
a Mayflower Coffee Shop in the Hilton. 
When Dean said there was a Mayflower 
Coffee Shop in the Hilton and Kalmbach 
had stayed in the Hilton, the audience 
burst into applause. Dean, by the end of 
his testimony had the crowd in his pocket.
Two weeks later Dean had a heart at
tack. The Nixon years and his testimony 
had taken their toll.
Dean was sentenced August 2, 1974 
for obstruction of justice. Sirica, according 
to Dean, threw the book at me. Dean 
was shocked by the severity of Siricas 
sentence of one to four years in a federal 
minimumsecurity prison. The maximum 
penalty is five years.
Dean served time from Sept. 3, 1974 to 
January 8,1975 4 months. Sirica reduced 
his sentence, upon appeal from Deans 
lawyer, Charles Shaffer, to time served 
because of Deans cooperation with the 
special prosecutors. .
I
it
Proceeds will be used to supply uniforms 
for the 80-member Kiltie Marching Band. g
Y'all Come!
nCMU Goes to the Circus!
Pittsburgh Civic Arena |>
Sunday, Novmber 18, 1979 |
6:00 p.m.
>
Prices: Reserved - $4.00
General Admission - $3.00 
>Tickets Available at jj|
Skibo Information Desk %
The CMU circus night is sponsored by the Pitts^
burgh Men's Clan, the Pittsburgh Women's > 
Clan, the Student Alumni Relations Council 
(SARC), and the Student Activities Office.
& 

BEFORE YOU PICK UP 
YOUR DEGREE, 
PICK OUR INTERVIEW.
Contact your placement office 
for interview dates.
: HUGHES : ii_________________________
Creating a new world with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
Next week - Deans answers

---------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------November 6, 1979TARTANPage 13
CMU talks about... The social life on campus
On weekends, I send away for other 
college catalogues to decide where to trans* 
fer to for a better social life.
Bob Newstadt Math 82
Im in a sorority, so the social life is 
pretty good. I dont think its fantastic, 
but if you are looking for something to do, 
you can usually find it.
Sandy Angerman Business *82
In my opinion, the social life here 
without the greeks would be nothing.
Beckie Baumgartner 
Graphic Comm. Management 82
Most of the social life is just based on 
the frats. I dont think that theres much 
social life except at mixers, and the parties 
at Hammerschlag and Morewood.
Geoffrey Lloyd Econ *83
On weekends, we either have parties in 
our room, or I go to a party on campus. I 
think the social life could be improved; 
some of the parties are pretty dull, and 
theres not much variety of things to do.
Audrey Kania 
Graphic Comm. Management 82
Being a freshman, I spend much of my 
time at fraternities. They have a lot of par
ties and other facilitites that the dorms 
dont have. David A. Turner EE 83
Take Your 
Future 
In Hand 
Thursday, 
November 8th
Representatives from The 
American University in Wash
ington, D.C. will be in Pittsburgh to 
provide information about 
graduate programs oi the 
College oi Arts and Sciences, 
College of Public and International 
Aiiairs, and the Kogod College oi 
Business Administration.
We cordially invite all interTHE PITTSBURGH 
HYATT HOUSE 
CHATHAM CENTER
(opposite the Civic Center) 
Pittsburgh, Fa.. 15219 
Thursday 
November 8,1979 
10 am5 p.m.
(see lobby t v. monitor lor location)
Ameriran* visit please oail4- University
the davtime
COLLEGE
SENIORS

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14-TARTAN-November 6, 1979 ------
Inside the flashcube
A portrait of Walter Cathie
by David Mills
If an award were ever given for arriving 
to work early, Walter Cathie, Director of 
Financial Aid, would certainly be a prime 
contender for the prize. His work day 
starts at 6:00 each morning as he enters 
his second-floor office. Mr. Cathie sees 
his major responsibility at CMli as pro
curing funds for financial aid. One needs 
to talk with him for only a few minutes to 
realize the great role that State and Federal 
politics plays in this procedure.
Cathie graduated as an R.O.T.C. 
Economics major in 1965 from Davis and 
Elkins College in West Virginia. He 
completed his four-year military obliga
tion as a flight navagator in the Air Force 
in Viet Nam. He then enrolled in Stetson
University in Florida and earned his MBA 
in 1970. Until Carnegie-Mellon offered 
him his present position in 1974, Cathie 
worked in the Financial Aid office at 
Allegheny College. He had completed 
about ninety percent of his Ph.D. require
ments at the University of Pittsburgh.
Cathie is still active in the Air Force. He 
is a Major in the Air Force Reserve and is a 
volunteer Air Force Academy officer. The 
Reserve unit of which he is a member was 
responsible for flying lead bricks into 
Harrisburg at the time of the Three Mile 
Island incident. These bricks were used to 
line the malfunctioning nuclear reactor. As 
an Academy officer, Cathie interveiws 
people interested in entering an Academy 
and tries to help weed out those who do
TARTAN TYPESETTERS:
Important meeting 
tomorrow at 4:30 PM 
in Skibo 50.
TECHNOLOGY AND 
POLICY AT MIT
A MASTER OF SCIENCE PROGRAM designated for 
persons wanting to participate in formulating policies for 
the development, use and control of technology and its 
consequences. Students form individual curricula to work 
on issues such as solar energy, the economics and legal 
aspects of materials recycling and the use of automation in 
manufacturing.
For information write:
Prof. Richard de Neufville 
Rm 1-138, Massachusetts 
Institute of Technology 
Cambridge, Massachusetts 
02139
Walter Cathie, Director of Financial Aid. 
not want to undergo the extreme discipline 
involved.
A good part of Mr. Cathies free time 
is spent working. Through the Financial 
Aid Office at CMU, he has been inter
viewed on several radio and television
Politics and Policy
The challenge to Israel
shows regarding the availability of financial 
aid and the choice this aid offers students 
in selecting a school. He also lectures on 
the same topic in high schools. Cathie 
also does educational consulting for the 
U.S. government, colleges, universities and 
corporations.
Mr. Cathie and his family spend every 
vacation in Florida. The remaining part of 
his spare time is devoted to his family and 
hobbies. Whenever he can, he attends 
CMU sports events. He has his own pilots 
license and enjoys flying. Bird hunting 
and woodworking are also included in his 
interests. He recently turned an old ice 
box into a toy box for his son, and is 
presently refinishing a set of antique 
barber chairs. Cathie is a virtual expert 
at old fashioned mechanical slot machines. 
He became fascinated with slot machines 
while he was over seas with the Air Force. 
He has researched the old machines and 
restored his own. If you ever develop an 
interest in slot machines, go talk to 
Walter Cathie: he would probably be 
interested in discussing it with you.
by Bob Gleeson
The interaction of politics and policy is 
evident in every nation regardless of its 
form of government. But rarely is it more 
evident than in the struggle of the Israelis
to put together a workable foreign policy
to deal with its Arab neighbors.
Since Israel was founded, many have 
argued that it has never had a foreign
policy, only a domestic policy. Israels
foreign dealings have been the external 
reflection of disjointed internal political 
fights. This was possible because most 
Israeli policies were only theoretical 
proposals of how to work out a solution 
to the Arab-Israeli conflict if the shooting 
ever stopped.
The main purpose of these proposals 
was to further the domestic influence of 
the parties which proposed them. The rel
evancy of each proposal to the realities of 
the do-able world was not primary since
* 00 You HAVE A 
CHEVROLET CH EVETTE THATfe NOT 
ALL CLEANED UP YET?
I WANT HER -TO THINK IOWN IT. "
$1^95 u z
200 No-Charge Miles
(Extra miles 20C each) 
Chevette or similar.
Available 8:00 a m Friday til 
5:00 p.m. Monday
You pay for gas and return car 
to renting location Rate nondiscountable 
and subject to 
change with
out notice 
Specific cars 
subject to 
availability
682-1444
4621 Forbes Ave 
(Hess Exxon)
National Car Rental
We otter S & H Green .
Stamp certificates on j
rentals m all 50 U S states
We feature GM cars like this Chevrolet Chevette
there was little chance of them being put 
to that test.
But times changed. Today Egypt seeks a 
real peace settlement. The Egyptian-Israeli 
border is being established in peace, and 
normal diplomatic relations between the 
two nations are being developed. The 
economics of a dependent world are 
moving the region away from the dom
inance of the Arab-Israeli conflict and 
towards the need to develop one of the 
most economicly promising areas of the 
Third World.
In this context, Israel is now being chal
lenged to develop a broad policy to guide 
it through this transitional period. For the 
first time, though, its peace proposals can 
be seriously judged against the current 
realities of the area. Development is the 
key concern of all the parties to the older 
dispute. It is development which must be 
stressed in any overall peace settlement. 
This will require each nation that wishes to 
be a party to peace to remove obstacles to 
an emerging peace so that the development 
which they need so much can follow.
This poses a special problem for the 
Israeli leaders because, unlike the strongarm Arab rulers, Israel has a represenatative 
government. Many Israeli politicians, who 
have spent their entire lives in constant 
combat in order to stay alive, are unable to 
adapt to the fast changing political environ
ment of the region today.
But these politicians still hold much 
power. For example, the present Begin 
government, being a loose coalition of mi
nority parties, can continue in office only 
as long as the ultra-conservative National 
Religion Party supports it. This fact forces 
the government to take unrealisticly un
compromising positions in regard to policy 
towards the Arabs. Some of these posi
tions, namely those concerning the auton
omy talks with Egypt and the construction 
of settlements on the West Bank, seriously 
question Israels determination to abide by 
the Camp David agreements. If this con
tinues the entire peace process began two 
years ago could fall. These positions must 
be changed.
Israel has fought against the odds for 
thirty-one years lo win itself a peaceful 
and prosperous place in the Middle East. 
Now that events are finally leading to the 
realization of this goal, it must ensure that 
its own political process does not betray it 
by harping on old issues which are best laid 
aside. Imagination and compromise are the 
best route to pcace.

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1979TARTANPage 15
Earth Network
by Gary R. Fabian
Most of you are probably wondering 
what a column titled Earth Network is 
going to be about. It is going to be about 
a lot of different things, like herbs and 
herbal remedies, the Kabbalah, maybe 
some astrology, legends, seasonal festi
vals, and other related subject areas.
Since quite a few herbs will be dealt 
with, it is necessary for the reader to 
know how to make the many different 
preparations. The first thing you need 
before you can use any of the following 
information is, of course, the herbs. Local
ly the best place to purchase dried herbs 
is The Golden Seal located on Murray 
Ave. in Squirrel Hill. Next, it is best to 
store the herbs in glass, sealed with a screw 
on top, and preferably the glass should be 
brown, but old canning jars and peanut 
butter jars do very well. You can also 
gather or grow your own herbs.
Once you have the herbs, you need to 
know what to do with them. Here are 
some of die techniques.
1) Decoctions  Usually used with hard 
materials such as barks, roots, wood chips 
and seeds. Boil one ounce of the material 
in twenty ounces of water in a closed 
enamel countainer for twenty minutes. 
Dose is two to five ounces at a time.
2) Elixers  Add one to four ounces 
of the powdered material to eight ounces 
of seventy-five percent alcohol then add 
four ounces of water and seep for at least
of the seeping period add four more ounces 
of water and use.
3) Infusions  Boil twenty ounces of 
water and add one half to one ounce of the 
herb after you have removed the water 
from the heat. Then seep for twenty 
minutes. Strain and drink four to six 
ounces of the infusion four times daily.
4) Ointments and salves  Heat one 
part white wine with fat and add one part 
of the powdered material, the finer the 
powder the better, while gently heating. 
Continue to heat for about twenty min
utes, remove from heat and let the con
coction cool just a little, then strain.
5) Poultices  Place the material be
tween several layers of gauze or cotton. 
Pour boiling water over the whole thing 
so it is just slightly wet, then beat the com
press with a meat tenderizer or a spoon. 
Apply immediately.
6) Plasters  Wet the material with hot 
water, then beat the material with a meat 
tenderizer or spoon. Place the material 
between two pieces of cloth and apply to 
the affected part of the body.
7) Teas  Boil ten ounces of water and 
remove it from the heat. Then add one to 
three teaspoon(s) of dried herbs. It is best 
to pour the boiling water over the herbs. 
Cover and let seep for five to ten minutes. 
Strain and drink.
8) Tinctures  to eight ounces of 
seventy-five percent alcohol add one to 
four ounces of the powdered herb and four
two weeks, shaking every day. At the end ounces of water. Seep for atleast two
Bermuda trip planned
by Lynn Epstein
Carefree Vacation...breathtaking shore
line...the traditional charm and hospi
tality of informal Bermuda-this is the 
life youll love. Sound like a sales pitch? 
Well this is exactly what Student Cor
poration is selling to interested students 
for the coming Spring Break. From March 
22 to March3G? any student with the pro
per funds can enjoy the warm sun, beaches, 
parties, and activities available in Bermuda. 
The trip, arranged through the Adventures 
in Travel Agency, will cost a flat fee of 
$419, which covers a round trip air flight, 
8 days and 7 nights at the air-conditioned 
Mermaid Beach Hotel, breakfast and dinner 
daily, plus all taxes and service charges, 
transportation to and from the airports is 
also included, and the group will leave on 
regularly scheduled Eastern Airlines flights 
from Pittsburgh.
The vacation will take place during a 
special period dubbed College Weeks, 
when all of Bermuda is devoted to catering 
to college students. Beach parties and 
distribution of free souveniers are a part 
of the planned festivities, along with the
usual attractions of boating, fishing, tennis, 
skin diving, and snorkling.
Although Student Corp. is a money
making organization, no profit will be in
volved in the transactions. The aim is to 
provide a different and more exotic vaca
tion alternative to the usual Florida resorts. 
Planning for over half a year, Student 
Corp has searched for and found the best 
package available, and all arrangements 
have been thoroughly checked and are 
guaranteed. Up to December 1, reserva
tions will be unlimited, and anyone submit
ting a $25 refundable deposit by this date 
will be assured a ticket to Bermuda in 
March. Checks are to be made out to 
Adventures in Travel, and turned into 
Student Corporation, Skibo 103.
So the next time you start to pull out 
the Mellon Banking card, imagine the 
sunny, warm beaches of Bermuda and an 
exciting Spring Break. The person to call 
for more information is Mark Rotblatt, X 
3945, and interested students are invited to 
browse through the brochures available in 
the Student Corp office, Room 58 Skibo.
GIVE THE BEST THAT'S IN YOU
GIVE BLOOD
CMU STUDENT BLOOD DRIVE 
NOVEMBER 14 AND 15 
1:00-7:00 PM 
MOREWOOD GARDENS REC ROOM
Priva tefe un it,...
oo
FIR>T TAV -THE BAR 
U OPEW...
O
SnV*TEvmAUy LvATfcft 
NGAR "me /o/lu M>U*e
O
o _
Mow AU. 1 HN/E TO O 
b RVP THE HARVEST 
Wo* *30* Starnami 
STUbtUJTS ...
OO
all Rk,HT CHUMP, HAWb 
0\AE R AU. THE MOMCy |W 
THC I
weeks shaking daily. Strain and then use.
In closing, here are a few helpful tips. 
When you are boiling water try to boil it 
in an enamel pot. Honey can be added to 
most teas and is actually a useful addition 
to some. Decoctions, infusions and teas 
should always be freshly made and will 
not keep for more than one day. Tinctures 
and elixirs can be stored almost indefin
itely in sterile glass containers. They 
should be thrown away when you notice 
a change in their smell or color. Finally, 
try not to use synthetic fats or oils. Good 
Health!
Warning: Whenever you are using herbs 
be aware that some people are allergic to 
some herbs, and that all herbs are medi
cines, to varying degrees, and as such 
should be used with care. Herbs, like
aspirin, are potentially dangerous, but used 
judiciously they can help you improve the 
quality of your life  naturally.
References used: Herbs and Things by 
Jeanne Rose, The Herb Book by John 
Lust, and Medicinal Herbs by Joseph 
Kadans.
COUNTER HELP 
FOR RESTAURANT
Full or part-time. 
Three.different shifts available. 
9am-4pm, 4pm-9pm, 
and 9pm-4:30a.m. 
Apply:
3901 Forbes Ave., Oakland 
Original Hot Dog Shop.
SERIES AT 6:00 
THURSDAY NOVEMBER 8 
DONNER LOBBY
HOW TO APPROACH SPRING REGISTRATION
CO-SPONSORED BY 
CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING 
AND 
RESIDENCE LIFE

---------------------------------------------------

Computer Science and Electrical Engineering Grads
This Could Be The Start Of Something Bigl
November 15 Interviews At The Cross Gate Inn
With
TANDEM COMPUTERSTHE NEW BREED. 800 individuals...professionals who form the most dynamic team 
in computer systems today. We answer to each other, expect the most from each other, and support one 
another. We have developed a creative environment that has resulted in such innovations as the Tandem 
NonStop system, the first multiprocessor computer with fault tolerant capabilities. Weve gained market 
acceptance and have grown from $7 million to more than $50 million in just two years! And you can bet 
we re always looking for people who expect morefrom themselves and their company!
Computer Science - Become involved in the development of operating systems, compilers, data base 
systems, data communication software, and hardware diagnostics. Opportunities for individuals with BS, MS 
or PhD degrees in computer science.
Electrical Engineering - Become involved in the development of processors, memory systems, peripheral 
sub systems, power systems, communication sub systems and LSI technology and development. Opportunities 
for individuals with BS. MS or PhD degrees in electrical engineering. (Some related work experience very 
desirable.)
If you possess the ability and desire to become an integral part of our continuing success, be sure to meet 
with us to discuss what we have to offerexceptional benefits including a 6-week sabbatical leave every 4 
years, educational assistance and the unique San Francisco Peninsula lifestyle.
For an interview appointment contact Nancy Shearer at 800-538-9360.
If you are unable to interview on this date we invite you to send your resume to TANDEM COMPUTERS, 
INC., 19333 Vallco Parkway, Cupertino, CA 95014. An equal opportunity employer.
TAND

---------------------------------------------------

CMU Opera opens season with success
by Melody Mazzie
The Marriage of Figaro, an opera per
formed by CMU graduate students, proved 
once and for all that culture can indeed 
be painless.
The opera ran from November 1 - 4, 
with the lead roles of Figaro and Susanna 
sung by William Brown and Julia 
McKinley-Pfahl. Brown and Pfahl were 
excellent, as were the other members 
of the cast. Their work on this perform
ance started in the beginning of September, 
with four weeks spent on the music alone.
John Haber, a visiting stage director, 
conducted the orchestra. He is one of the 
most active freelance directors in the 
United States and serves as the Chairman 
of the Opera Department of the Blossom 
Festival School in Cleveland.
The Marriage of Figaro was written by 
Mozart and Ponte. The action of the 
story takes place near Seville during the 
18th century at the estate of Count 
Almaviva. Both Figaro and Susanna are 
servants at the estate and are engaged to 
be married. The plot is rather complicat
ed, but basically deals with the Counts
desire to exercise his droit du seigner 
with Susanna. In those days, it was permissable for a master to bed his servant 
before her husband had the opportunity. 
The Count, who has abolished that right 
now seeks to regain it because of his desire 
for Susanna.
Many sub-plots are interwoven in this 
opera, thus, providing for several comic 
relief figures. One of these, a page named 
Cherubino, was played by Mary Nachtrab 
whose expressionate face and lovely voice 
were a big asset to the performance. 
Jill Leasure and Robert Ferrier gave very
colorful and amusing performances as 
Marcellina and Bartelo, Figaros long lost 
parents.
The opera, much to the delight of the 
non-Italian speaking audience, was per
formed in English. Bonnie Fix Keller, 
opera coach and member of the music 
department faculty, provided the musical 
preparation and harpsichord accompani
ment.
The Marriage of Figaro opened the CMU 
Opera Theater with great success. Other 
programs in the seasons repertory in
clude Carmen and La Boheme.
Dimiceli to sing at coffeehouse
A.B. Coffeehouse will present Louise 
Dimiceli, with Michael Connor on Novem
ber 10th, in the Wherrett room in Skibo. 
Dimiceli, a frequent CMU Coffeehouse 
performer, has appeared nationally on 
television, touring colleges, and in clubs. 
She has performed with Martin Mull, Tom 
Paxton, Tom Parks and Jim Post, among 
others.
Louise delights her audiences with pure, 
wide-ranging vocals, innovative musical ar
rangements and an irrepressible spirit. She 
sings songs of real situations faced by many 
women, based on many of her own experi
ences. Her songs range from sassy blue;, 
Sleepy to a jazz improvisation of Glorv 
of Love to an exquisitely tender ballad. 
Michael Connor is a Junior voice major in 
the music department here at CMU, and 
has also performed at many coffeehouses 
on campus. This event is free and open to 
the campus community and begins at 9:30. 
Refreshments will be served.
Maazel directs orchestra
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern delight audiences
by C.T. Goodman
Reviewing a play like Rosencrantz and 
Guildenstern Are Dead is somewhat like 
studying philosophy. Although parts of it 
are clear and very interesting, understand
ing whats going on as a whole is quite a 
task.
The play, this years first by the CMU 
Drama Department, is easily categorized 
into the Theatre of the Absurd. Directed 
hy Professor Michael Pierce and written by 
Tom Stoppard, it presents parodies of var
ious Shakespeare works, specifically Ham
let. while providing humorous andecdotes 
and dialogue along the way. Much of the 
play is spent in conversation between Ro
sencrantz and Guildenstern where Stop
pard's witty dialogue is displayed at its 
best. Quick retorts, interesting word games, 
and story plots are all intertwined to cap
ture and hold the audiences attention 
throughout the production. Although occa
sionally the dialogue gets a bit too intense 
and lengthy, and the lack of action makes
the play sometimes hard to stay with, the 
overall humorous affect is still achieved.
The excellent performances by the 
entire cast, however, aided the plays in
frequent weak spots. Patrick Dunster and 
Hall Hunsinger in the roles of both, and 
either, Rosencrantz and Guildenstern de
livered delightful performances, playing off 
of one another easily. Supported well by 
Darroch Greei (Hamlet). Michael Cook 
(The Player), Caroline Carrigan (Ophelia) 
and the rest of the cast, they gave character
to their roles portraying to the utmost a 
very difficult plot.
Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead 
performed to capacity crowds during its 
October 18 to 27 run, earning hearty referals from everyone. Although not entertain
ing in the traditional sense, via music, 
dance, story line, the more subtle intel
lectual humor it employs definitely makes 
the play an experience in the always inter
esting theatre of the absurd.
Lorin Maazel, Conductor of the Cleve
land Orchestra since 1972 and recently 
honored as the first American to be named 
Music Director of the Vienna Opera, makes 
his conducting debut with the Pittsburgh 
Symphony Orchestra in the subscription 
concerts of November 8, 9, and 11 at 
Heinz Hall. The all-orchestral program is 
devoted to Beethovens Lenore Overture 
No. 2 in C major, Schumanns Symphony 
No. 3 in E-flat major, and Bartok's Concerta for Orchestra. The performances are 
scheduled for Thursday at 8 PM, Friday 
at 8:30 PM and Sunday at 2:30 PM.
Turnback tickets for the November 8, 
9 and 11 concerts go on sale to the general 
public on a first-come, first-served basis 
at the Heinz Hall Box Office 24 hours be
fore the November 8 performance. Infor
mation regarding the availablity of turn
back tickets may be obtained by calling 
281-5000. Students and senior citizens 
may purchase available Rush tickets 
(S3 each) at the Heinz Hall Box Office 
15 minutes before each performance.
In addition to these regular subscription 
concerts, the Womens Association of the 
Pittsburgh Symphony is sponsoring a re
hearsal, open to the public, on Wednesday, 
November 7 at Heinz Hall, beginning at 
9:45 AM. Maazel will lead the Orchestra 
during the two and a half hour rehearsal, 
and will speak at a luncheon in his honor 
following the rehearsal in the Heinz Hall 
Galleries. Admission is $3 for the rehearsal 
only ; $10 for both the rehearsal and lunch
eon. Ticket information may be obtained 
by calling 281-6156.
CaudilltospeakAlumni Circus
Which Side Are You On? Industrys 
Debt to Appalachia will be presented at 
Carnegie Mellon University on Friday, 
November 9, at 8 PM.
The speaker. Dr. Harry Caudill, Profes
sor of Appalachian Studies at the Univer
sity of Kentucky, is a well-known historian 
of the Appalachian region and the author 
of the book .Might Comes to the Cumberlands. C audill will discuss the exploitation 
of the local resources of the Cumberland 
region in the last hundred years and what 
ought to be done to return some of the 
wealth to the people of the region.
The lecture, co-sponsored by CMUs 
Department of History and The Program 
in Technology and Humanities, will be held 
in Doherty Hall room 2315 on the CMU 
campus and is free and open to the public.
The Pittsburgh Mens Alumni Clan of 
Carnegie Mellon University is sponsoring a 
night at the Three Rivers International 
Circus to benefit the Kiltie Marching Band.
The 6 PM performance on Sunday, No
vember 18, at the Civic Arena has been re
served for CMU alumni, faculty, staff and
friends. Donated tickets will be given to
underprivileged children in the Pittsburgh 
area.
* Tickets are S3.00 for general admission
~ and $4.00 for reserved seating and are
* available through the CMU Alumni Office,
J 501 Warner Hall, 5000 Forbes Avenue,
> Pittsburgh, PA 15213; or call 578-2060.
S Proceeds will be used to purchase new
band uniforms.
The Iron City Houserockers rock and rolled through an exciting free concert in the Skibo ballroom _____________________________________________
Friday afternoon,October 26.
Louise Dimiceli will be performing November 10th at the A.B. Coffeehouse in the Wherrett room.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18TARTANNovember 6, 1979
Jethro Tull gives short but sweet performance
by Scott Schaffer
On Thursday October twenty-fifth, two 
of Britains best joined forces in the Civic 
Arena and gave a crowd of over 13,000 an 
entertaining if not unforgettable evening. 
Progressive rockers UK opened for the 
main attraction, Jethro Tull. The show 
had shortcomings, but they were out
weighed by good sound and professional 
musicianship.
Starting precisely at 7:30 (even though 
the hall was barely half filled), UK played 
a talented but unfulfilling set. The group 
looked and sounded quite different than it 
did in its last appearance in Pittsburgh, 
having lost drummer Bill Bruford and gui
tarist Alan Holdsworth this year. Bassist/- 
vocalist John Wetton and keyboardist/- 
violinist Eddie Jobson added drummer 
Terry Bozzio and chose to carry on as a 
trio. Although all three are excellent 
musicians, their lineup change has accom
panied a move to more commercial mater
ial. The highlights of the performance 
were The Only Thing She Needs, Night 
After Night, the title track of their new
est album, and In the Dead of Night,
which unfortunately was one if only two 
songs the band played from their first 
album. Unlike many warm-up groups at 
the Arena, UK was given a sound check
prior to the performance, which enhanced 
Jobsons slick violin playing and Wettons 
ferocious basslines. However, something 
they were not granted was enough time 
for an encoremaking their act incom
plete.
Unlike UK, Jethro Tull appeared with 
about the same lineup they have main
tained through most of their sixteen 
albums. Under the leadership of Ian And
erson, the veteran sextet had several 
surprises for the enthusiastic audience. 
The first surprise was the unique theatrical 
setting on stage; the ratlines of a North 
Sea schooner extended to the lights, 
conveying the theme of their latest disc, 
Stormwatch. Anderson sported a medi
eval plaid cape, while keyboardists John 
Even and David Palmer wore a parka and 
an armour vest, respectively. The second 
surprise was the midstream halting of the 
first song, Dark Ages, Anderson, who
was wearing glasses because of a recent 
concert eye injury, hurled an assortment 
of expletives at a fan who threw a bottle: 
at him.
After Somethings On The Move, the 
flautist cut the ropes, removed his 
cape and almost apologetically announced 
that everyone would recognize the next 
tune. Guitarist Martin Barre belted out the 
opening riff to Aqualung, the crowd 
roared, and the show was underway 
again. The remainder of the set was com
prised of a wide variety of wellknown 
songs, many of which had original new ar
rangements.
As a whole, the group was quite com
petent, but Anderson, who played flute, 
acoustic guitar, and organ, in addition to 
handling vocals, was clearly the most 
impressive. He did not dance and leap 
around the stage as much as he used to 
(perhaps age is finally catching up to him), 
but he still exhibited his dynamic person
ality, without which the show would have 
been trivial.
A highpoint of the act was a medley 
which began with a flute improvisation
including God Bless Ye Merry Gentle
men. This led into Heavy Horses, 
which was followed by the Tull version of 
Bachs Bouree. Other noteworthy selec
tions were a rock and roll adaptation of a 
sixteenth century Henry VIII composition, 
a ten minute excerpt from Thick as a 
Brick, and the last song, Cross Eyed 
Mary.
Jethro Tull had skillfully built up 
momentum, but lost any chance for a 
really memorable performance with one 
final surprise. After an encore which in
cluded Minstrel in the Gallery, Loco
motive Breath, and Dam Busters 
March, the band left and did not return, 
barely ninety minutes after they began. 
As Ian and the boys ran to catch a plane, 
the patrons stared in amazement at their 
watches which read 10:30. In their haste, 
Jethro Tull neglected several favorites, 
notable material from Stand Up, and Bene
fit, and even their popular new song, 
North Sea Oil.
All in all, it was a good concert. Al
though neither group reached their poten
tial, no one was asking for his money back.
The Intel Notebook
Careers and Technology at Intel
Focus: The Microelectronics Revolutionand how you can be part of it. 
See us on campus December 6 & 7.
Think for a minute about what microelectronics like to help us change the way the world lives,
technology has already achieved. Yet we are wed like to talk with you. Stop by your placestill in the infancy of the microelectronics ment office to sign up for interviews during our
revolution. And no company is doing more to visit. Or if youll be unable to see us on
speed it than Intel. campus, write to any of our locations:
CHOOSE YOUR AREA OF Callitrn,ia o ,
INVOLVFMFNT ,ntel Co,,e9e Relationsinvv/Lv tmui i. 3065 Bowers Avenue
We re an acknowledged leader in four major Santa Clara, CA 95051
product areas: semiconductor memories and
microprocessors, and microcomputer systems Qrcflon
and memory systems. Plus we re extending Intel College Relations
our leadership into data-base management. 3585 S.W. 198th Avenue
Our success has created a wide variety of Aloha, OR 97005
career opportunities in engineering, technical Arizona
marketing, production management and |n^e| College Relations
planning, and finance. 5000 W. Williams Field Road
FOUR GREAT LOCATIONS. Chandler, AZ 85224
Weve built our facilities where the quality of 
life is high, because only in such places can we 
attract the highly skilled, highly motivated 
people we need. Thats why we can offer you 
Californias San Francisco Peninsula; 
Portland, Oregon; Phoenix, Arizona; or Austin, 
Texas, each with its own intriguing lifestyle.
SIGN UP NOW.
K youre about to receive a degree in electrical 
engineering, computer science, solid-state 
physics or chemical engineering, and youd

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1979TARTANPage 19
Bonnie Raitt returns to Syria Mosque
by Ted Smits
Women have rarely been able to break 
through the barriers erected by the male 
dominated rock and roll hierarchy. Unless 
they are contributing some background 
vocals it is rare to find any women performing in a headlining rock band. Rarer 
still is finding a competent female musician 
leading her own group. Blues singer and 
guitarist Bonnie Raitt is one of the rare 
finds. Possibly the most talented female 
rock guitarist, Bonnie Raitt returns to the
Pacino knocks system again
by Melody Mazzie
In an early scene of And Justice For All, 
lawyer Arthur Kirkland is sitting in a jail 
cell. He is charged with contempt of court 
for hitting a judge  a judge who refuses 
to grant freedom to a young man because 
theevidence proving his innocence is sub
mitted three days late. The young man is 
thus sentenced to five years in prison, 
essentially for driving with a broken tail 
light.
s Now for the real story  the judge, 
(played by actor John Forsythe), is later 
charged with the sadistic rape and beating 
of a young woman. Kirkland, much against 
his will, is blackmailed into being his de
fense attorney.
A1 Pacino is captivating in his role as 
Kirkland. True, his portrayal of an emo
tional, dramatic, and morally upright law
yer is for the most part unrealistic, but he 
gives todays society a much needed model 
of the old fashioned good guy who dares to 
s buck the system.
Some have criticized And Justice For 
All as nothing more than Serpico in a 
three-piece suit. There is indeed the under
lying individual vs. the institution con
cept, but the movie itself merits much 
more credit. Unlike Serpico, Kirkland is
not alone in his despair with the system. 
His partner gets a client off a murder rap 
on a technicality, only to learn the acquit
ted then murders two children. Unable to 
deal with his guilt, the partner psycholo
gically cracks up.
Also unlike Serpico, And Justice For All 
has several amusing scenes. During one in 
particular .Kirkland,who suffers from a fear 
of heights, is trapped in a helicopter with 
a judge who is a suicidal maniac.
And Justice For All deals with the in
consistency of our so-called constitutional 
rights and the actual practices of the 
judicial system. In one scene Kirkland 
questions the probings of an Ethics Com
mittee which in theory has good inten
tions, but in reality is misguided. He ques
tions the power of imperfect, unfeeling 
lawyers and judges over the lives and fu
tures of helpless people. Dont you care? 
he asks a fellow associate imploringly, 
Dont you even care?
Lee Strassberg puts in an especially 
touching performance as Kirklands grand
father. Both for the story itself, and the 
quality of the cast, And Justice For All 
is a film worth seeing  even at $4.00 
a shot.
Syria Mosque tonight, Tuesday, November
6 at 8 PM. Opening the show will be the 
rocking blues of the Nighthawks.
The daughter of broadway singer John 
Raitt, Bonnie picked up the guitar at age 
twelve. Heavily influenced by the country 
blues style of Muddy Waters, John Ham
mond, and Robert Johnson, she first per
formed in folk and blues clubs surrounding 
Cambridge, Massachusetts. Her first com
mercial successes in Philadelphia area clubs 
led to a well received tour of Eastern col
leges. In 1971 she signed with Warner 
Brothers and first album was soon released. 
Subsequent albums such as Home Plate, 
Give it Up and Taking My Time have estab
lished Bonnie as a commercially and crit
ically sucessful artist.
Her current tour features material from 
her own albums (much of which is covers 
of songs written by artists like John Prine, 
Allen Tousaint and Delbert Maclinton) and
a variety of cuts from her latest release 
The Glow. Bonnie is one of the founding 
members of MUSE (Musicians United for 
Safe Energy) and recently performed in a 
series of concerts at Madison Square Gar
den along with Jackson Browne, Bruce 
Springsteen and other fellow MUSE mem
bers. The money raised from the concerts 
and subsequent albums will be used to 
fund national and grass roots groups work
ing towards educating people about the 
dangers of nuclear power and the need for 
safer and cheaper alternatives.
Tonights show produced by Electric 
Factory Concerts is not an elaborate bene
fit for the anti-nuke forces but should 
still prove to be a fine, enjoyable evening 
of the blues. Tickets are $6.50 and $7 JO 
and are available at all National Record 
Mart locations and the Syria Mosques box 
office.
Guitarist Mitchell Korn will perform at the Lion's Walk Performing Arts Center on November 
10th.
Korn to appear at Lion's Walk
Mitchell Korns approach to music is as 
distinctive as the instrument he plays. As a 
composer and 12-string guitarist, he prefers 
the challenge of mastering many different 
musical styles to working exclusively with
in the classical repertoire.
Performing either as a soloist or with his 
New York-based ensemble, Korn attempts 
to stylistically integrate elements of East
ern and Western music and as such has, in 
the words of THE NEW YORK TIMES, 
set himself one of the most interesting 
goals in contemporary music. A typical 
Korn program includes everything from 
Delta Blues to eastern improvisational 
pieces to his own compositions, which he 
describes as going to the roots of Amer
ican music.
A music graduate of Bard College 
Vasaar College, and the California Institute 
of the Arts, Mitchell Korn has studied with 
Ellie Yarden, Ravi Shankar, classical guitar 
ist Garcia Luis Renart, and jazz trombon
ist Roswell Rudd. In early 1979 he was 
named the worlds most accomplished 
12-string guitarist by THE CHICAGO 
TRIBUNE.
MITCHELL KORN, nationally famous 
six and twelve-string guitarist and com 
poser from New York, will present one 
concert at 8:00 PM November 10 at the 
Lions Walk Performing Arts Center.
The Lions Walk is located at 420 N. 
Craig St. in Oakland. Tickets for the con
cert are $3.00 and $2.00 for students. 
Information: 441-3697.
TARTAN News 
Staff meeting every 
Tuesday at 7 PM 
Skibo 50.
r
VX-------W -xx~-----x>c
12 NOON MUSIC SERIES 
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 9 
SKIBO LOBBY
STRING
QUARTET
i
CO-SPONSORED BY 
CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING 
AND 
CMU MUSIC DEPARTMENT
XLV " V--------w.-------**---------XX----^3<>c=>ac

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20TARTANNovember 6, 197&
. .WHKT EVERYBODY ELSE WEARS
CLUB NONYMOU5
284 MORE WOOD at CENTRE 
11a.m, to 7p.m.TUES thru SAT 
for guys&dolls 681-9387
vinttigc apparel
Make a great impression, step 
into fall in style. Have a pre
cision haircut styled especially 
for you, then get back together 
with friends and enjoy the fall.
Ewscnmons
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
HAIRCUTS 
(Wash-Cut-Mow)
ll00
Mon. Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thor*. Fri. 10-9 
i l*.  4
COLORING
237 Atwood Stroot 
Pittsburgh. Po. 15213 
687-3500
UNISEX SAIOM
PERMANENTS
NO
APPOINTMENTS
by Alan Spero
Beatlemania opened at the Stanley 
Theatre to a large, enthusiastic crowd 
last Wednesday night. The production 
which was was originally performed on 
Broadway, will be playing at the Stanley 
from now until November 11th. Beatle
mania is an original concept by Steven Le
ber, David Krebs, and Jules Fisher that in
tertwines visual images of the events, 
ideas, and morals, of the sixties with the 
live performance of twenty-nine Beatles 
tunes by a set of Beatle look-alikes.
The multimedia presentation that is 
used to incorporate the songs is highly 
entertaining. There are multiple screen 
projections of slides, live film footage, and 
drugged-out designs projected on a screen 
behind the group, and on a translucent 
screen which is lowered in front of them 
while they are performing. This gives 
the images depth and more brilliance while 
still allowing the audience to see the 
group perform. The technique was used 
most effectively during Nowhere Man 
(probably the best performed song of the 
evening), Hey Jude, and songs from the 
Sgt. Peppers set, especially Lucy In The 
Sky With Diamonds. The continuallyThese four Beatle 
"Beatlemania.
look-and-sound-alikes perform 29 Beatle songs amid multiple audio-visual effects in the Stanley Theatre production of
H/HY SHOULD WE WEAR._.
changing projections were able to carry 
along even the lesser-performed songs, such 
as Lady Madonna and I Am The 
Walrus.
Now comes the real question: Are these 
four guys really any realistic impersonation 
of the Beatles ? The answers unequivocal
ly: No way. But the concept of the show 
allows for this; if the cast does not put on 
a good impersonation, all the better. After 
all, this isnt a rock concert, its a Broad
way show. The vocalizing I heard last 
Wednesday night was done very well, 
the guitar lines, although at Muzak-level 
volume, were professionally picked off,
and the whole effect when pulled together 
did produce an acceptable level of listen
ing enjoyment on most songs, since they 
were accompanied by the fantastic audio
visuals.
However, I do take exception to the 
fact that the actor playing Ringo looked 
exactly like George and the actor playing 
George looked more like Ringo. I think 
this point illustrates one problem that the 
production suffers from, and that is non
conviction. Why allow the character that 
plays Ringo to look so disturbingly like 
George? Im sure that they could have 
continued on page 21
Beatlemania brings back the sixties with sight and sound
photo courtesy of Stanley Theatre

---------------------------------------------------

AB CONCERTS AND COFFEE HOUSE
with special guest comedian
NANCY PARKER
Friday November 16th
8:00 PM
in Skibo Ballroom
Tickets on Sale at 
Skibo Info. Desk
$4.00 with CMU Student ID
$5.00 Public
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 22TARTANNovember 6,1979
' GRAND OPENING
"SUIT YOURSELF"
FACTORY DISTRIBUTOR OUTLET
Stop in for the best selection 
in the newest men s suits.
 Men s Suits and Sport Coots
Latest Styles  Famous Brands
BELOW WHOLESALE
Add 10% discount for students
3710 FORBES
2nd fioor above Cindys621-6371
Gazebo offers atmosphere and diversity
In this scene from "Beatlemania," the boys recreate the "Lady Madonna" recording session.
ckif/inp combination oftuKury and discomfort.  
-Vartety ~ ~
...a clever heartless picture, 
an unconventional enjoyed it.
'Philip Trench,London Observer1 ~
I
CourtNov. 8,11,15,18 n
V v RATED R
by Karen Stevens
The Renaissance of Pittsburgh has been 
a concern of many for the past decade.
This week I have chosen to look at a 
restaurant that, in its own way, began re
ceiving the past artistry of the area when 
its owners decided to build using remnants 
from old houses being torn down. In 1964, 
the future owners of the Gazebo obtained 
much of the wood, bricks, and salvageable 
pieces of the homes in East Liberty (being 
torn down to build the mall) for the pur
pose of erecting on Walnut Street in 
Shadyside their combination restaurant, 
delicatessen and bakery.
Walnut Street is a place to go and 
browse around all the initimate shops dis
covering the uniqueness of each. The 
Gazebo measures up to these standards 
with its unusual decor that captures your 
attention while awaiting your meal. The 
booth posts and lamp fixtures are construc
ted from porch and stairwell banisters. A
a counter for the deli. Artistry is displayed 
in an 1880 original oil painting which por
trays a child. Highlighting the room 
further are other authentic antiques and 
conversation pieces which are sure to make 
you wonder in awe.
As the environment begins to be within 
your grasp your meal is being served. The 
menu is one that most people despise be
cause it fearures everyones favorites. An 
array of sandwiches comprises most of the 
list taking in roast beef, pastrami, combina
tions, turkey, etc. My suggestion is that 
one start the meal off favorably with a 
bowl of their soups served piping hot and 
very appetizing. Following this could be 
one of enumerable sandwiches made from 
fresh deli meats. I chose the super corned 
beef; a wise choice for the corned beef 
lovers. An inch and a half of tender, lean 
corned beef was a steal at approximately 
$3. My luncheon guest chose a Reuben 
sandwich; it too was well'portioned and
four post bed turned upside down serves as very good. Rounding out the meal, the
Beatlemania at Stanley
continued from page 20
found another drummer who at least 
would not resemble any of the other three, 
even if he didnt look like Starr. And why 
allow the actor playing John Lennon to 
spew off only pieces of Lennons famous 
on-record quotes? If hes going to say 
them, he could at least say them right. 
Marshall Crenshaw, who impersonated 
Lennon, was also most guilty of acting like 
he was bored and just going through the 
motions, although all four of them seemed 
pretty disinterested in what they were 
doing by the end of the show. Since they 
were not putting out the energy of-a rock 
band, and since they were imitating the 
Beatles only up to a certain extent, a lot of 
the energy basic to the Beaties music was 
missing. It was this lack of liveliness and 
total commitment to recreating the Fab 
Four that might turn off the more hard
core Bcatle fan, and. leave him/her with 
the impression that hes just seen a display
of Walt Disney audio-animatronics instead 
of a live performance.
Still to the average theatre-goer, and 
most admirers of good music, the show was 
exceptionally entertaining, enough to bring 
the audience to their feet for a standing 
ovation at the end of the show. The 
production also functions as a good primer 
for the person just getting into the Beatles 
and their music. After seeing the show, Im 
sure most new fans would be very anxious 
to get their hands on some recordings of 
the real thing. All in all, the shows concept 
was handled very well. Beatlemania pro
vides an enjoyable evening of visual and 
musical pagentry.
Tickets for Beatlemania can be pur
chased at the Stanley Theatre box office, 
National Record Marts, and at Kaufmanns. 
Performances run Thursdays at 7:30 PM, 
Fridays and Satrurdays at 7:30 and 10 PM, 
and Sundays at 7 and 9 PM.
customer is forced to indulge into one of 
the many homemade desserts. Various 
cakes, pies, danish and other baked goods 
are all tempting. Their cheesecake is a 
favorite that brings many back, but its 
a matter of taste.
Your bill for $5-$6 arrives and you
have had an enjoyable meal, discovered 
more of the areas history/culture, and 
have change left over for the bus back to 
CMU. I highly recommend that you add 
to your next excursion to Shadyside a stop 
in the Gazebo either for a meal or a selec
tion from their scruptious bakery or deli.
Each Beatle song is performed in coordination with projected images depicting the events of 
the sixties.
NATS holds workshop
The National Association of Teachers of 
Singers (NATS) will hold a special work
shop program for advanced students on 
Friday, November 9, 1979. The program 
will be held at 7:30 PM in Alumni Concert 
Hall, College of Fine Arts at CMU.
The program is divided into two parts: 
the first part will be a master class of ad
vanced literature for the students and the 
second part will be a workshop conducted
by Todd Duncan. The workshop will 
center around Porgy and Bess, the 
Gershwin opera which deals with the plight 
of black Americans in the 1930s. Todd 
 Duncan, the original Porgy, will coach 
the advanced students and help them stage 
different arias, duets and scenes from the 
opera.
The workshop program is open to the 
public. An admission fee will be charged 
for people who are not members of NATS.

---------------------------------------------------

ts
:
WE'VE GOT YOUR PICTURE
Gary EvansSDCNeil AdlerGary SnyderKen West
Mike GreenbergRobert GleaknChi OmegaWes SeeleyJoan Pellegrini
WRCTSue BurkheimerLinda KraltchmanLiz MeyersBob Z usman
Ruth KaufmanDario DonatelliMiguel SantaniDavid SocholJacquie Wooley
Dante's InfernoAIESECFreshman CampActivities FairMark Kennert
SAEPaul BilgoreChris ZimmermanHank PohlTed Cliffard
PikaMargie MilgramPaik PlayersKaren StevensDavid Sweet
Tina KuhrMark AndrewsLisa PackerMike ConnerDavid Boyce
Lambda SigmaMary BrennerGene MacinkRosencrantz and GufldenstemLisa Amowitz
Gusty JenserDenny PostofkaMoes ManiacsBob PellegrinoMatt Sweigart
Marie CaineBill PetraneMichael HershovitzMary Ann OTSanJane Giampocaro
Tartans No. 42Bobby KennedyLinda WittAndy EpsteinGlenn Rosenthal
Delta GammaPi Lambda PhiStudent SenateDelta Tau DeltaBarb Bittle
Eward Karl FresySigma NuDuane SteffeyZBTKris Goetz
Kate BerrtandJens LambaDavid MillsMary Jo AndrakePeer Help
SWEJeff McKayCraig ZimmermanThetasPhilosophy Club
Andy RaganMollie McCloskeyDave MongeauKappa Kappa GammaKaren Y aksich
Dana DumMaureen FernandezAlexisJoe Barry (and Joes girlfriend)Cheerleaders
Jim BalsanAPhiOCarol ColledgeLaureen CarrollLinda Dickerson
Vince WilsonDoug KirsopBrian WolfDavid ShewardJohn Soderiind
SpiritBecky SladeBrian JekerEric PetersenRajah Chako
Barney WilsonEleanor the Cheerleader Phi Mu AlphaMarcia LeipunerIUCF
Keith WilliamsDonna RoyojkySigma Alpha IotaKen ReanAnita Slane & the Tri-Delt Pledges
Mark KrivlacGeorge YheeMortar Board 
A whole lotta people who 
identify! Probably you too!
Fencing 
we couldnt
SWE
IN THE I980 THISTLE!
DO YOU?
Get yours before they're gone. Yearbooks cost 
$15.50, and may be purchased at Skibo Information 
Desk or at the THISTLE office.

---------------------------------------------------

It might surprise but 
make aircraft. Wat w d* 
nicely by our Chairman ol 
E. Puckett: Were involve 
communications fechnoi 
sors that operate on all p. 
spectrum, and computer: 
sors that issue commanc 
sent data. In the midst of 
nic information explosior 
data sensing, communia 
cessing advances to worl
J __ M *and me
If youre an EE, ME, AE, II 
Science or Comp^terSci 
become part of tUfs exclt 
commitment. Yq#x>ufd I 
aerospace, ground systei 
tronics, space and comm 
search. Our $4 bion bac
verse prograrr 
worry about g 
in small group 
valued highly.
Hughes-for all! 
on our opportun! 
office, or write: N 
Hughes Aircraft i 
P.O. Box 90515,1 
Los Angeles, CA
HUGHE
new world wi
Page 24-TARTAN-November 6, 1979-------------------------------------------------------------------------------=--------------------------------------------:--------------------------------------
Oil executive says alternative energy sources must grow
by Jeanette Bryan
The basic problem is the world is using 
oil faster than it can be found, said 
William C. King, Director of Corporate 
Policy Analysis for Gulf Oil. Speaking at 
an AIESEC - CMU lecture, Kings topic 
was Whats the Real Scoop Behind the 
Energy Crisis?
King, one of Gulfs foremost research 
engineers and economists, holds a B.S. in 
Chemical Engineering from CMU, and an 
M.S. in the same discipline from MIT. 
He said there' is undoubtedly an increased 
reliance on OPEC oil. With the recent 
flux of the economy and the political 
upheaval in Iran, prices of oil were forced 
to increase rapidly during 1979. These 
rising prices are a definite indication of 
future rises. When we come out of this 
economic recession, which according to 
King will be about 1981, more and more 
short term regional shortages will occur 
and hike prices further.
The world uses 60 billion barrels of oil 
per day. The U.S. is the major consumer, 
using 33% of this oil as compared with 
only 5% of the worlds population. We
we must plan to increase the growth of 
alternate energy sources. The major oil 
substitutes will be first, coal derivitives and 
synthetic chemical products, then nuclear 
sources until about 2030. The increased 
use of solar energy will be slower since it is 
costly and not as efficient a source, but is 
expected to expand rapidly after the year 
2030.
King said the situation in the U.S. with 
domestic oil is critical. In order for Brook 
Haven intentions to be fulfilled - and they 
must if we continue to be large energy 
consumers, he emphasized - the U.S. must 
be able to produce an increasing amount 
of crude oil until 1985, when demand is 
expected to be greater than supply. Prices 
then will be 3 to 4 times as much as 
todays, King predicted.
After 1985, we must essentially recover 
and intensely drill many new areas for new
oil finds. This will be difficult since we 
have had oil deficits since 1966. With 
recovery techniques being costly and 
technologically complex, oil prices will 
be further exaggerated. However, we must 
depend on parental discoveries, such as
the Alaskan find, and reserves to stabilize 
the economy for 20 to 30 years.
King believes this will be enough time 
to allow for the transition to alternate 
energy sources. Today, the oil prices must 
increase in order to insure future reserves. 
Do not look grimly at the oil corporations 
profits but consider them a blessing, said 
King. 200% of the profits go back into 
drilling, exploration, and research. In fact, 
the research is proving very ;promising in 
the areas of coal gasification, chemical 
fusion, fission, and organic synthetics such 
as methanol, alcohols, and other cellulose 
derivatives.
Todays high prices will buy tomorrows 
cheap, efficient energy substitutes, he 
reminded the audience. King said that the 
U.S. has available olutions to the energy 
situations, but results will not be cheap or 
fast. The main problem is getting the 
public to understand the serious reality 
of the energy crisis. Truly, we must begin 
conserving and make use of more energyefficient designs. Our actions now will 
determine our economic future and way 
of life, he concluded.
William C. King, Gulf Oil executivr.
use 7 million barrels of oil per day alone 
for our cars. Clearly there is not enough 
oil in the world to sustain this energy 
consumption for very long, stated King. 
According to the Brook Haven Project, 
which King said is a rational prediction of 
the energy future, it is essential to realize 
that energy supplied by petroleum will 
decrease steadily until the 1990s, then 
drastically afterwards since these products 
will be rare. In the meantime, said King,

---------------------------------------------------

Tartans capture PAC crown, remain unbeaten
by Carl Wilson
The Tartans of Carnegie-Mellon made 
history last Saturday by becoming the only 
undefeated, untied team in CMUs, or for 
that matter Carnegie Techs history. They 
accomplished this memorable feat by edg
ing Thiel college, 21-13, in the biggest 
conference showdown the PAC has ever 
had.
The label ultimate showdown was 
indeed appropriate for the clash, as the 
match-up provided the most exciting 
game played on Tech field since last 
years upset of Dayton University in 
the first round of the NCAA playoffs. 
Coach Klausing referred to the game as a 
classic in small college football history, 
and indeed it was. The two teams bit and 
scratched from the opening kickoff to the 
fintfl gun and it took an interception by 
CMUs Gus Sunseri at the CMU 36 yard 
line, with 1:06 remaining in the final quar
ter, to secure the big victory for playoff 
bound CMU.
Thiel College threw the biggest scare of 
the season into the entire CMU squad by 
scoring on their first possesion. Thiels 
Ron Leuschen took a pitch-out around 
right end and was off to the races as he 
blew past the CMU secondary for a 38-yard 
touchdown jaunt in the first quarter. CMU 
retaliated by mounting a scoring drive of 
its own as Bob Gasior vaulted over from 
the one to tie the score at seven. The quar
ter ended with CMU and Thiel tied, 7-7. 
The first quarter was truely an indication 
of the ensuing dog-fight as the crowd, 
many of them Thiel fans, began to move 
toward the edge of their seats.
THE TARTANS GO HOG WILD!! No. 64, Tackle Mark "Hoople Rice, leaps in joy after no. 31, Bob Gasior, plunged in for the Tartans final touchdown 
of the afternoon. No. 59, center Joe Goldcamp surveys the pummeled Thiel defensive line.
The game slowed down a bit in the sec
ond quarter, as CMU opted for a ball con
trol offense, and Thiels drives were thwared by the Plaid Curtain. But with minutes 
remaining in the half, Thiel quarterback, 
Charly Cole, pump faked to reciever Tom 
Benedetto, who ran an out and go pattern, 
and lofted a beautiful spiral to Benedetto 
for Thiels second touchdown. The play 
covered 56 yards and 60 heartbeats as the 
crowd stared in disbelief. Meanwhile, CMU 
could not sustain a drive and the half ended 
with Thiel on top, 13-7.
Thiels defense proved very effective 
because, according to Tomcat coach, 
Wayne Petrarca,  we keyed on their 
quarterback, Bob Kennedy. Kennedy 
managed only 10 yards on 15 carries, 
and threw for 43 yards, completing only 5 
of 16 attempts. But, his presence on the 
field nonetheless gave the offense the 
confidence it needed to regroup and come 
out fighting in the second half.
With Kennedy grounded, Coach Klau
sing had to look for a different weapon. 
He found the weapon in the running game, 
as tailback Perry Colosimo and fullback 
Bob Gasior took turns pounding Thiels 
defense. Colosimo entered the game in the 
first period when tailback Rick Leaman
broke his left arm, with 9:00 minutes left 
in the first period, while running a sweep 
right. The junior tailback responded by 
leading the Tartan rushing attack with 
78 yards, followed by Bob Gasiors 61 
yards and three touchdowns. Offensive 
linemen, Don Kaminski, Mark Rice, Gary 
Matz, Jim Prencipe, Rick Creech, and Joe 
Goldcamp began to open some holes in 
the second half, after having the Thiel 
defensive line outfinesse them in the first 
half. Tight end Greg Samsa, and cheat 
back, Gary Drakulic also began to blow 
out Thiels defensive line and did an 
excellent job of leading the backs through
thp hnlps
CMUs second touchdown came after a 
fumble recovery by defensive end, Jim 
Gresh, at the Tomcat 27 yard line. Four 
plays later, Bob Gasior took the ball over 
from the three yard line, and Denny 
Postufka booted the extra point to give 
the Tartans the lead going into the final 
quarter, 14-13.
CMUs defense stiffened in the second 
half to shut out the explosive Tomcat at
tack v Tailback Ron Leuschen was held to
81 yards on the day, but quarterback Chark 
Cole was 16 for 28 through the air, and to
taled 222 yard, one touchdown and threw 
two interceptions. Tom Benedetto led all 
pass receivers with five receptions for 108 
yards and one touchdown.
CMUs final score came late in the final 
quarter on a grind em out drive lead by 
Perry Colosimo who consistently cracked 
the Thiel line for key yardage. A key 
reception by Bob Frye kept the drive alive 
and with three minutes remaining in the 
game, Gary Drakulic lead fullback Bob 
Gasior through the Thiel goal line block - 
ad for a one yard touchdown run. The kick 
was good and the score stood at 21-13 for 
the remainder of the contest.
????????????
the first quarter of Saturday's clash.
me Scoring Summary V-'
Thiei 7 6 0 0 13
CMU 7 0 7 7 21

Thiel - Leuschen 38 run (Woolsey kick) 
CMU - Gasior 1 run (Postufka kick) 
Thiel - Benedetto 56 pass from Cole(kick 
no good)
CMU - Gasior 3 run (kick good)
CMU - Gasior 1 run (kick good)
CMU
Game Stats
Thiel
12First Downs11
57-161Rushing35*104
5*16-0Passing16-28-2
87Return44
2-1Fumbles/Lost4-2
8*38.7Punts8-33.b
2-1Penalties5-47The Thiel defense pressured Kennedy all afternoon and registered three sacks for the game. Here, 
however, Kennedy manages to get one off before a Thiel defender greets him Hello, Bobby!
EXTRA POINTS'.Punter Gene Marcink 
played a key role in keeping Thiel in bad 
field position as he consistently booted 
the ball high and long, allowing only min
imum return yardage. Bob Gasiors three 
touchdowns give him 15 for the season and 
rank him among the national leaders. 
Gasior is the PAC scoring leader. The vic
tory over Thiel should keep the Tartans 
ranked number three nationally. CMU will 
not know its opponent until next weeks 
division games are complete. Before 
Saturdays action, CMU was ranked third 
behind number one ranked Wittenberg, and 
number two ranked, Minnesota-Morris. 
There is a distinct possibility that CMU 
could host number six ranked 
Baldwin-Wallace (remember last year?) in 
the first round of playoffs which begin in 
two weeks.
In any case, the TARTAN staff urges 
the campus community to stand behind 
the team in their quest for the National 
Championship. Alabama, here we come!
photos by Larry Duffee

---------------------------------------------------

SALADS PLUS I DINNERS UNLIMITED
UFS UPDATE
Everynight Is 
y2 PRICE NIGHT
For Someone
Check the Blackboard 
Daily at the Entrance 
to Morewood to See 
if You Qualify 
Standing Offer: If It 
Is Your Birthday, You 
Get In Free
Attention Kiltie Cafe 
Lovers  You're 
SPECIAL!
 Coupon 
I read the Tartan, 
So I Can Buy One 
and Get One 
FREE
ICE CREAM NOVELTIES 
KILTIE CAFE
NOV. 6 THRU NOV. 12
Buy the coffee... 
...Keep the mug 
(Regularly $.45)
 Coupon 
$.15 OFF on a
Mug of Coffee 
at
SALADS PLUS
While Supply Lasts
FREE 
al'A GRAPEFRUIT
With Any Purchase 
7:00 AM10:30 AM 
Nov. 6 thru Nov. 12
WORK/STUDY JOBSChoice Positions Still Available 
Apply in Skibo Rm. 62 Mon.-Fri. 8:30 AM - 7:00 PM
Any comments, suggestions, or criticisms 
about food service?...Call the
FOOD SERVICE DIRECTOR'S HOTLINE MON. 5PM-6PM
UNIVERSITY FOOD SERVICE
4

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1979TARTANPage 27
DONT MISS TALKING 
TO THE HUGHES 
RECRUITER VISITING 
YOUR CAMPUS SOON.
Contact your placement office 
v for interview dates.
; HUGHES : i_________________________I
Creating a new work) with electronics
AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER M/F
.... my clients. And I like to think I perform 
exceptionally well for them  when it comes to 
things like generating funds for a college edu
cation, or finding applicable tax advantages, or 
setting up an effective employee benefit pro
gram. Yes, Im a professional life insurance 
underwriter and proud of it. And if youre the 
least bit skeptical about what a tremendously 
flexible financial tool life insurance really is, 
you ought to get in touch.
Get the most out of life with
SZEYLLER PROVIDENT
ASSOCIATES m M MUTUALSTATE COLLEGE PA (814) 238-0544 ..  i--~ LIFE INSURANCE COMPANYPITTSBURGH PA (412) 824-0422 ... OF PHILADELPHIA
248 Calder Way State College PA 16801
400 Penn Center Boulevard Pittsburgh PA 15235
Tartan secondary is combination of brains, brawn, desire
by Isaac Ignacio Clondner
After losing two of four starters from 
last years defensive backfield, many con
sidered the deep area a question mark this 
season. The skeptics have certainly been si
lenced as Brian Renner, Gus Sunseri, Tom 
Frost, Joe Wagner and Mike Powell and 
company have allowed only two touch
downs all season whHe permitting oppo
nents 79 yards/game in the air.
One only need remember last years 
Baldwin-Wallace game to realize the impor
tance of the defensive backs, as three of 
B-Ws touchdowns came on long passes. 
Superior physical skill are not enough, for 
one wrong move can be six points for your 
opponent.
In CMUs defensive scheme, there are 
two cornerbacks and two .safeties. The 
cornerbacks must be good open-field 
tacklers and exceptional pass defenders. 
The strong side cornerback plays opposite 
the opponents tight end and wide receiver, 
and is manned by Tom Frost. A sopho
more from Butler High School, Frost is 
described by Coach Moe Smith as a 
steady player with no weaknesses. Tom is 
one of the most improved ballplayers on 
the team. Frost has 21 tackles and 1 inter
ception this year.
The weakside corner must be versatile 
in that he plays the run more and some
times lines up at defensive end. Bringing a 
Jack Tatum-like hitting ability to this posi
tion is Brian Renner, a junior from Lake
wood, Ohio. Coach Moe Smith remarks, 
Brian Renner is the best hitter in the 
secondary, and maybe on the entire team. 
He has improved his pass defense and is a 
terror on the kickoff teams. Ranger 
is second in tackles among defensive backs, 
and also has one interception.
The strong safety at CMU is like having 
another linebacker in the lineup. They pri
marily watch the run, but are responsible 
for the tight end. Mike Powell, a junior 
from Avonworth H.S. and Joe Wagner, a 
sophomore from Central Bucks West H.S. 
share the strong safety position. Coach
Smith described them as bookends, 
displaying the same qualities of toughness 
and great desire. They both play 
excellently against the run as the statistics 
indicate. Powell has registered 31 hits, 
while Wagner has 18 tackles and one 
interception.
The outstanding player on defense and 
perhaps the entire team can be found at 
free safety, where Gus Sunseri makes his 
presence felt. The strong safety is the 
quarterback of the defense, as well as being 
the last fine of defense. Coach Smith says, 
Ive coached two other All-American 
backs, and Gus is the best. He has great 
range, quickness, and intelligence, and does 
things that you cant teach. Ill be disap
pointed if he doesnt get a tryout in pro
fessional football as a free agent, and Gus 
certainly has All-American potential.
Co-Captain this year, Sunseri is a three 
time All-Conference selection, and was 
named Academic All-American last year. 
He was no slouch in high school either, 
being named All-West Conference, AllWPIAC, and Big 33 while performing at 
Central Catholic High School. Gus leads 
the defensive backs with 54 tackles, and 
has returned five interceptions for 19 
yards. Football runs in the Sunseri family, 
as brother Sal is a standout at Pitt.
Along with the above mentioned, Ted 
Thomas* Bill Spiderman Humphrey, and 
Bob Rometo play extensively at strong 
and weak corner and free safety, respec
tively.
Coach Smith feels that the deep backs 
are overall the best athletes that he has ever 
had here, and that they are reaching the 
greatness plateau. Its at the stage now 
where our backs want the opponents to 
pass. stated Smith. Perhaps the units best 
performance came at the expense of 
Bethany, when CMU intercepted five 
passes from Jeff Beer, the leagues leading 
passer.
CMU will need big plays by the defen
sive backs to advance in the upcoming 
playoffs.
"MOt'S MANIACS GO CRAZY! Who says players and coaches don t get along? Certainly not the 
Tartan secondary. No. 42, Mike Powell (Yes, we are niwnber one!), No. 49, Joe "Jose" Wagner, 
Coach Moe Smith, No. 36, Brian "Ranger Renner (nice legs). No. 30, Tom "Tatoo" Frost, and 
No. 32, Gus "All-everything" Sunseri, get together after the Thiel game.
TARTAN 
"Athlete of the week
I work for 
exceptional people...
Gary
Kraemer
Bob Gasior heads upfield with a full head of steam 
game.
This weeks TARTAN Athlete of the 
Week is Bob Gasior, a senior in Metallurgy 
and Material Sciences. A Pittsburgh resi
dent, Gasior attended Pittsburgh Central 
Catholic High School before coming to 
CMU.
Gasior is the fullback in coach Chuck 
Klausings veer offense, which has ripped 
opponents for 388 yards per game. Since
against W & J. Consistency is the name of his
the Tartan oftense is tullback-oriented,
Gasior has had to carry the bulk of the
rushing attack. He has responded week 
after week with consistant, hard play^
rushing for 654 yards on 195 carries for a 
3.3 yards per carry rushing average. His 
three touchdowns against Thiel bring his 
season total to 15, making him the confer
ences most prolific scorer, and ranking 
him among the national leaders in scoring.
photos by Larry Duffee

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28-TARTAN-November 6, 1979
IM football playoffs end
by Leslie Weiser
It has been an eventful week for IM 
sports. Two major championships were de
cidedTouch Football and Co-Rec Volley
ball. Touch Football finals were held Sun
day night, too late to make it into this 
weeks issues, but there will be extensive 
coverage in next weeks TARTAN. The 
Co-Rec Volleyball champion in the major 
league was Coaches All-Stars and in the 
minor league was Spike and Gang. Congradulations to both teams for their hard 
work. Team Volleyball schedules are out 
and the games have started. There are 
several things all teams should remember. 
The team playing last is responsible for 
putting away the poles following your 
game, and it is important to be sure to note 
the winning team on score sheets. The 
Womens Only league began play on Sun
day, November 4. Any questions regarding 
Team Volleyball should be directed to 
Mike Pochan, commissioner.
Phi Kappa Theta is still far out in front 
in Water Polo intramurals. Their latest 
victory was over Beta by a score of 20-2. 
Teams in the league should be sure to get 
games played and scores turned into the 
IM office. A reminder to the teams playing 
the last game of the evening - please put all 
of the equipment away. Playoffs begin 
Thursday, November 15, and any questions 
should be directed to commissioner Greg 
Werbaneth. Racquetball schedules are now 
out. Those participating should be sure to 
get games played and turn in the scores. 
The racquetball commissioner is Joe 
Chaves, who can be reached at 687-9647.
Table tennis schedules are out. It is im
portant to get the game results to the IM 
office following your games. Check the IM 
bulletin board for up to date standings. 
Any questions regarding table tennis 
should be diverted to commissioner Ken 
Bosch (683-1242).
League play for Soccer begins on
IM FOOTBALL FRENZY!! Everybody goes for broke during the playoffs.
Monday, November 5th. The full schedules Bowling is in full swing at the Strand 
are now out and can be picked up at the Alleys in Oakland. Games are held on
IM office. Please get games started promptSaturday mornings at 10:00 AM. The
ly at 7:00, 8:00 or 9:00 PM as the lights commissioner is Ed Novack, who can be
must be off at 10:30 PM. Please turn in all reached at 682-9580.
equipment to Wes Seeley, commissioner, The next intramural board meeting is
following the last game on your field. Wes Thursday, November 15th at 12:30 PM
can be reached at x4004. at the IM office, Rm. 104, gym.
PAC champAll-stars take on The Haven
For the first time in at least 12 years, a 
fraternity has not reached the finals in 
major league IM football. The Haven (5-0), 
an independant dorm team, edged ATO 
(3-1), by the score of 26-24, while Coaches 
All-Stars (3-1), a team of grad students, 
staff, and faculty, overcame the defending 
champions, PiKA (4-1), 26-22.
by Dave Wottle
The PAC cross country championship 
meet was held at Bethany College last 
Saturday. Allegheny walked off with the 
title edging Case Western Reserve, CarngieMellon and Bethany. However the PAC 
MVP and number one cross country runner 
was last weeks Athlete of the week, 
Craig Woolheater, who finished the course 
only 15 seconds off the record, 26:08. 
Teammate, Dario Dontelli copped second 
place with a strong 26:40, and Alleghenys 
Tom Held finished third in 27:16.
In team scoring, it was Allegheny 53, 
Case Westen Reserve 55, CMU 56, Bethany 
59, John Carroll 159, Thiel 170, Hiram 
198, and W&J 219.
Look for CMUs Cnig Woolheater and 
Dario Donatelli to do well in the nationals.
Slonaker with a long bomb for the goahead touchdown in the fourth quarter. 
Slonaker picked off a deflected PIKA pass 
with two minutes left to seal the victory.
The Haven, led by quarterbackRocky 
Cersosimo, was the only undefeated team 
in the regular season. They won a see-saw 
battle with ATO on key touchdown plays 
to Ralph David and Joe Belechak.
Coaches All-Stars came back from a 
poor start and a three touchdown defecit 
to upend PIKA. Quarterback Boron hitGIVE UNITED WAY
Craig Woolheater put it all together once again to 
swipe the PAC crown.Looking for a career in high technology? Xerox has a surprise for you.
If ever there was a rags to riches sto
ry, then Horatio Alger could certainly ap
preciate Bethany College quarterback Jeff 
Beer.
A year ago, as a sophmore, Beer was 
listed as Coach Don Aults bade-up quar
terback, seeing action only during the lat
ter stages of the games.
However, midway through the cam
paign, that trend was broken, and Beer was 
awarded the starting signal callers job, a 
move that altered the course of football at 
Bethany.
By seasons end, Beer had completed 
113-of-217 passes for 1,634 yards and 14
touchdowns, all Bethany grid standards, 
and, for his efforts, claimed the Presidents 
Athletic Conference passing and total of
fense crowns, as well as the loops offensive 
Player of the Year award.
And this season, though Beer will not 
take PAC-8 opponents by surprise as he did 
a year ago, the statistics continue to 
mount, as do the Bison victories.
Beer & Co. had their latest success at 
the hands of Hiram, as the 6-0,180-pound 
junior connected on 10-of-20 passes for 
146 yards and four TDs, in leading the 
Bisons to a 37-12 victory, the clubs third 
straight triumph.
You may already know that Xerox is a leader in 
reprographics. But you may not know that Xerox 
is also a leader in many other new technologies... 
Electronic printers that take information directly 
from computers and print it with laser beams... 
Electronic typing systems that type and store 
information for ready retrieval and revision.
Now we also can involve you in the creation 
of highly sophisticated hardware and software 
that will be the basis for advanced 
information management systems.
Wouldnt you rather work with an original? 
Xerox is the information center of the future. 
And nobody does it better!
Were looking for graduates with a BS/MS 
in several engineering/technical disciplines.
Check with your college placement office for details 
Then see our campus representatives.
IRON CITY 
SCHUTZ 
BUD
SCHMIDTS 
CHAMP ALE 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHUTZ MALT 
BALLANTIKE ALE 
MILLER LIGHT 
MiCHELOB 
PABST 
MILLER 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
BUSCH
SCHUTZ LIGHT ,BASS ^DORT HANSA Germany SAM MIGUEL Pttfkpmea SPATENBRAU Germany ST PAUU GIRL Germany PILSNER URQUELL Ciech GUINESS STOUT Ireland DAS XX EQUIS Mexico WURZ8URGER Germany HARP LAGER tretend LOWENBRAU Germwiy O KEEFE ALE C*wda DINKEL ACKER Germeny TECATE Mexico ISENBECK W Germany IRYSTALL Italy
621-7388 oW621-1185MACKESONEnol'nd
3901 FOUBESAV (OAKLAND) PGM PA 15213
Featuring 22 Varieties Steak SubsSERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM 
QUARTS - MUGS - PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 DIFFERENT DRAFT BEERS
M&lEftS. COLT 46. MOL SON ALE. LOWENMAU DARK. STROMS HEMCKEN LIGHT 
One Oilfertnt >6 as 6 pi featured etch week SCHLITZ  PABST TZ MALT  STROH S  ROLLING ROCK WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO ADVERTIZE OUR LOW BEER PRICES SPECIALTY ITEMS FRESH CUT FRENCH FRIES  PIZZA SERVEO TILL 3 AM 
HOT DOGS CHOICE Of 12 DIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES Of SAN0WICHES 
----------------- IMPORTS --------------------
KIRIN Japan PE RON) Italy RIGNES Nonmay BECKS Germany HOFBRAU Germany ZYWIEC Poland KRAKUS Poland SUPERIOR Mexico FOSSltRS Auatraiha HEINEKEN HoMend MOLSON ALE Canada PAULANER Germany GOSSE R Austria T ANK ARD London UNION W Germany PALE ALE Londor. DINKEL Germany WARFT EINE L Germany
Xerox is m affirmative action employer (male' female)
H0 DOG SHOPS, INC

---------------------------------------------------

November 6, 1979TARTANPage 29
Sports briefs
Soccer: The CMU soccer team contin
ued to sparkle after a slow early season, 
raising its record to 74 with over Alleghe
ny, 4-2. The Tartans, coached by Gene 
Klein, have one game remaining against 
Grove City. Through 11 games, sophomore 
Bob Messmer (Shaler) leads CMU in both 
goals (8) and points (19), while senior 
George Canepa (Concord Carlisle) is first 
in assists with 7, which is a school record.
Volleyball: Coach Jane Fisks volleyball 
team now stands at 8-7, after winning three 
of five matches last week. The lady Tartans 
defeated Carlow (3-0), Bethany (2-1) and 
Washington & Jefferson (2-1), but fell to 
Robert Morris (0-3) and Waynesburg (0-2).
\L champs, once again!
When
(raining slop 
he doing start?
At Scott, we believe that the best training 
we can give you is experience in putting your 
ideas to work Since we know that personal 
growth is your goal, achievement ot that goal is 
realized through doing Experience comes trom 
doingputting your ideas to work, enjoying respon
sibility. and accepting accountability
Each year, as determined, committed college 
grads )Oin us. they bring new talents with them We . 
put these talents to the test immediately and willingly 
accept their challenges
Because we recognize individual differences, 
our approach is to build on your existing skillsto 
enable you to start doing
When does the training stop' It never does 
Scotl Papei Company is an equal opportunity 
employer m/f
Cont.icl your placement office tor information

---------------------------------------------------

THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT, MICHIGAN  197S
Let's warm up and have an ice-cold StroKs
For the real beer lover.
Page 30TARTANNovember 6,1979
The TARTAN photo staff 
meets Tuesdays at 7:00 PM 
in Skibo Room 50.
D)80
_Dj

---------------------------------------------------

classified ads
Best Party on Campus9:30 Saturday Nov. 10
Prizes to be awarded!Wear a Costume
Onl okerstu d 3' wood table, chairs, 1
filing cabinet, 1 occasional table. Reason
able rates. For more information, please 
call THISTLE office x2121, or leave mes
sage at Activities Desk, x2107.
Work Study Students Needed! $2.90/hr. 
8:30-11:30AM 3:30-5:30PM. GSIA, Gerry 
Cohen x3574.
Counter help for restaurant. Full or part -
time. Shifts available: 9 AM to 4 PM, 4 PM 
to 9 PM, 9 PM to 4 AM. Apply 3901 
Forbes Avenue, Oakland, Original Hot Dog
Shop.
CASSETTE DECK - Hitachi D3500,
3 hands, Double Dolby, top loading, ac
cessories. $450 list, $250. Tapes available. 
Kevin Duffy 578-5930.
Texas Instrument SR-52 programmable cal
culator. Accepts magnetic cards. 223 
program steps. 60 program cards (mostly 
financial) included. $95. Call x2510 or 
683-6177.House for rent: 4 bdrms, large living room,
dining room, kitchen, 2 other rooms, bath, 
garage, large unfinished basement. On bus 
and trolley lines. $500 plus utilities. Call 
Mr. Williams. 566-5923.
Share apartment. Squirrel Hill - Point Bree 
area. $115.00 per month plus % utilities. 
661-3469.
clubs
Any students who are interested in forming
a public speaking club please contact either 
Paul Kravits at 521-7289 or Dr. Thomas 
Kerr at 578-2294.
The first general meeting of the CLUB
FRANCOPHONE will take place in a few 
weeks. Just as last year, the meeting will 
take place right after the showing of our 
first French movie. Elections, the naming 
of the officers, new business and dates for 
the next meetings will be decided then. 
Students of any nationalities are welcome 
to join the Club. Watch for the announce
ment of the movie in the TARTAN! You 
can contact Michel Fougeres (c/p History), 
Jean Retschitsky (c/o Psychology) or John 
Lamer for more information.
CMU Explorers Club, it's backpacking, 
climbing, hiking, cross-country skiing, 
caving, etc., we do it all. Club meetings 
are held every Thursday, 7:00 PM in Skibo, 
Room 11. Beginners and pros are welcome. 
We also have equipment (including sail
boats) for nominal rental fees available to 
the CMU community.
The Students' Dormitory Council has es
tablished office hours. Any undergraduate 
dormitory resident is invited to stop by 
and find out more about SDC or to register 
a complaint about any aspect of life on 
campus. Hours are: Monday from 2:30 to 
3:30 PM, Tuesday from 12:00 to 1:00 PM 
and 6:00 to 7:00 PM, Thursday from 
12:30 to 1:30 PM and 6:30 to 7:30 PM, 
and Friday from 2:30 to 3:30 PM. Our 
office is in room 55 in Skibo, campus ex
tension 2114. Feel free to call or stop by.
The Chess Club desperately needs people
to organize its activities  starting with 
meetings. If you're interested, see Rod 
Strychor (Doherty A301) or Bruce Leverett (Science Hall 8301, x3074).
A planning meeting for the 1979-80 United
Jewish Appeal Campus Campaign will take 
place over lunch Nov. 7 at noon at 
B'nai B'rith Hillel's Dining Center, 315 
S. Bellefield. For more information, 
contact Rachel Snyder, 691-8875 or 521- 
2131.
Daily Mass is celebrated by the Roman
Catholic Chaplaincy (The Univ. Oratory 
Parish) Monday through Friday at 12:30 
PM in CMU's Chapel, Skibo 39. If your 
time is limited because of the lunch hour 
please feel free to eat your lunch, first and 
still receive the Eucharist. We invite the 
campus community to come and join us.
RENT-A-TECH has the perfect job for 
you!! Get valuable work experience and 
earn extra money simultaneosly. These are 
some of the 100 jobs currently available: 
142. Cross-country ski instructor 
137. Messenger/delivery person 
150. Masseuse needed 
120. Statistics tutor 
103. Artists! Artists!
For information on these or other jobs 
contact Rent-a-Tech in Skibo 58 (Phone: 
X3535)
general
The Program in Technology and Humani
ties and the History Department of 
Carnegie-Mellon University will present a 
lecture by Harry Caudill, Professor of Ap
palachian Studies at the University of Ken
tucky and author of Night Comes to the 
Cumberlands on the topic, "Which Side 
Are You On?: Industry's Debt to Appala
chia" on Friday evening, November 9,
1979 at 8 PM in Doherty Hall 2315. This 
lecture is open to the campus community 
and the public. Harry Caudill is a wellknown historian of the Appalachian region, 
and he has helped to shape many of the 
social programs deveoloped by the federal 
government for Appalachia. His interpre
tation of the area should be of great inter
est to residents of Pittsburgh, a City which 
has benefited greatly from its location on 
the fringe of Appalachia.
Joseph F. Coates of JF Coates, Inc., for
merly Assistant to the Director of the Of
fice of Technology Assessment, U.S. Con
gress, and director of technology assess
ment research for the National Science 
Foundation, and well-known writer and 
speaker on technology assessment as a 
method of protecting the future against the 
abuses of technology in the past, will give a 
lecture on the topic, "Technology Assess
ment: Its Checked History In The Federal 
Government on Tuesday, November 13 at 
3:30 PM in the GSIA Auditorium. This 
program is sponsored by the Program in 
Technology and Humanities and the 
Department of Engineering and Public 
Policy.
Patrick Hayes, Senior Mathematician at the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System and lecturer at George Washington 
University, will conduct an undergraduate 
seminar on the applications of operations 
research in the Federal Reserve. Dr. Hayes, 
an alumnus of Carnegie-Mellon University, 
is responsible for developing mathematical 
models useful in structuring polices and 
analyzing problems of the Federal Reserve. 
His seminar will emphasize the practical 
applications of mathematics and profes
sional opportunities in the fields of applied 
mathematics and operations research.
The seminar will be held in the Multi
purpose Room (in the basement) of the 
Hunt Library and will begin at 5:00 PM 
on Wednesday, Nov. 7, 1979. An informal 
discussion period will follow and refresh
ments will be served.
Dr; Elona Vaisnys, member. President's
Commission on Foreign Language and 
International Studies, will give a lecture on 
the CMU campus on the topic, "Toward 
Wider Horizons: Recommendations of the 
President's Commission", on Thursday, 
November 15 at 7:30 PM in the Multi-Pur
pose Room of the Hunt Library. This Pro
gram is sponsored by the Program in 
Modern Languages and European Studies, 
College of Humanities and Social Science. 
The annual Scholarship Benefit"Glendi" 
will take place Nov. 11 in the Schenley 
Ballroom, Pitt Student Union. Greek 
pastries and coffee are included in the 
ticket price, $7 for adults and $5 for stu
dents. For more information, call 371- 
4543.
official
President Richard M. Cyert will have open
office hours for students between 3 and 5 
PM in his office Wednesday, November 13. 
Students who wish to meet with the presi
dent should telephone his office, 578-2200, 
to set up an appointment. It is hoped that 
this program will be a benefit to both the 
president and the students in allowing stu
dents direct contact with him.
John P. Crecine, Dean of College of Hu
manities and Social Sciences will have open 
office hours for students on Tuesday from 
1:30 PM to 3:30 PM.
Art Department SAC: Make your depart
ment work for you. Get your opinions 
public. Be involved in faculty appointment 
and' evaluations and other departmental 
issues. Meetings are every Thursday, CFA 
312,4:30 PM.
The History Department is offering in
Spring 1980 a newly-designed course in 
20th Century European History (79-491, 
T, TH 9:00) taught by Professor Peter 
Stearns. This course provides a trial run for 
the department's European Studies Pro
gram that will begin in Fall, 1980. It com
pares key features of contemporary West 
European society and politics with the Uni
ted States with the intent of exploring the 
ways and extent to which West Europe is 
surpassing this country in basic dynamism. 
All interested students are invited to enroll.
The Modern Language Program is offering
for Spring a team-taught course in 20th 
Century Masterpieces of Continental Liter
ature (82-681, MWF 10:30). The course, 
taught in English, will include great works 
by Camus, Hesse, Kafka, Lorca, Mann and 
Sartre. All interested students are invited 
to enroll.
THE MYSTERY OF THE MAYA. The
strange Drawings on the Plains of Nazca, 
Peru. We will look at the art and writings 
of the Aztec, Maya and Incan peoples in 
order to understand Latin America in the 
1970's. A new Modern Languages course in 
English for students who plan to work or 
travel in Central and South America. No 
prerequisites. Latin American Civilization 
(82-484). Spring Semester, Tuesdays and 
Thursdays, !:30-2:45. Lisa Fedorka (MLP 
X2897). This course will fulfill Humanities 
requirements for CIT/MIS students and 
Foreign Language requirements for H&SS 
students.
scholarships
The National Endowment for the
Humanitites through its newly-expanded 
Youthgrants program will offer more than 
100 awards throughout the nation this fall 
to students to pursue independent projects 
in the humanities.
The deadline for submission of com
pleted applications has been extended to 
December 1, the only deadline during this 
academic year. Application forms should 
be on file in college offices which deal with 
federal grants.
The Wheeling Symphony Orchestra is
pleased to announce the 1980 Ohio Valley 
Young Musicians' Concerto Competition 
for Strings to be held on April 12, 1980. 
The Competition is open to persons age 17 
to 28 who reside or are students in West 
Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Kentucky, 
Indiana, and Illinois.
The Competition will be held at West 
Liberty State College, near Wheeling, West 
Virginia. Completed applications must be 
received by the Wheeling Symphony 
Office, Room 102, 51-16th Street,
Wheeling, West Virginia, 26003, phone 
304/232-6191.
Graduating college seniors, new graduates
and graduate students are invited to apply 
for the "live-in" Pre-Professional Resident 
Advisor/Counselor Traineeships offered at 
the CAREER HOUSE Unit of The 
Devereux Foundation in Suburban Philadel
phia. a multidisciplinary residential and 
day care treatment and rehabilitation cen
ter. The Devereux PA. Branch is approve i 
by the APA for Pre-Doctoral Internships i;i 
Clinical Psychology and Counseling Psych
ology. CAREER HOUSE is approved by 
The International Association of Counsel
ing Services as an Accredited Counseling 
Center. As part of the Earl D. Bond 
Branch of the Devereux Foundation, it 
has received accreditation as a Psychiatric 
Facility for Children and Adolescents by 
The Joint Commission on Accreditation of 
Hospitals.

---------------------------------------------------

a.b.
November 8 at 6, 8, 10 PM 
The World of Apu in DH 2210
Admission $.75 with CMU ID/$ 1 without. 
This is the concluding film in the Apu 
Trilogy and describes the manhood of 
Apu. He is invited to a friend's counsin's 
wedding where the bridegroom suddenly 
suffers from a nervous breakdown. Apu is 
persuaded to take the bridegroom's place 
to save the family from permanent dis
grace. It is a beautifully rich film about 
disillusionment. Music by Ravi Shankar. 
November 9 at 6, 8:15, 10:30 and 12:45 
Jaws in DH 2210
Admission $1 with CMU ID/$ 1.25 without 
In the most riveting sea drama ever 
conceived, Roy Scheider, Robert Shaw and 
Richard Dreyfuss become allied in a life 
and death hunt to destroy a devastating 
killer shark.
November 10 at 9:30 PM 
Wherrett Room
A.B. Coffeehouse Committee pre
sents the ever popular Michael 
.Connors. Refreshments will be 
served. Free with ID.sports
Volleyball
November 6 vs. Chatham (A) 7 PM 
November 8 vs. CSC/Geneva (A) 6 PM 
November 10 PWC tourney (A) 9 AM 
Available nowPenguins Hockey full (40 
games) and partial (20 
games) season tickets now 
on sale. For more infor
mation, call 434-8911. 
Spirit Soccer season tic
kets now on sale for Soc
cer beginning December 
7. Call 562-9510.films
November 6 at 8PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall
The Jean Renoir Directors Series contin
ues with the presentation of Le Regie 
DuJeu. Admission is $1.50.
November 7 at 4:30 PM
The English Department Lecture Series 
opens with Woody Allen: An American 
Comedy. In this Vi hour movie, Allen dis
cusses his creative process, illustrated with 
clips from his movies. The movie will be 
followed by a reception with refreshments 
afterwards in the H & SS Lounge. Free Ad
mission.
November 7 at 9:30 PM 
Doherty Hall 2210
Fanny, a movie by Marcel Pagnol, will be 
presented by Club Francophone. Admis
sion is $1 with CMU ID and $1.50 without 
ID.
November 7-8 at 8 PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall
Visiting German filmmakers Bint and 
Wilhelm Hein will present programs con
cerning avant-garde films. On the 7th they 
will screen and discuss their new work 
From Here to Eternity; on the 8th they 
will present a program of avant-garde 
films. Admission for each show is $1.00. 
November 8,11, 15, 18 at Midnight 
Kings Court Theatre, Oakland 
Effects will be shown. Rated R. Call 682- 
2334 for more information.
WQED Highlights (TV 13 )
November 11-7 PM - Masterpiece Theater, 
Poldark.
- 9 PM - Masterpiece Theater, 
Love For Lydia
- 10 PM - Edward the King. 
November 12 - 9PM - Jane Fonda
- 10 PM - World, The Real 
War in Space.
November 13 - 8 PM - Nova, The Case of 
the Ancient Astronauts.
November 10 at 6,8,10,12 PM.
Klute in DH 2210.
.50 with ID/$1.00 without.
November 11 at 7:30 PM 
Carnegie Institute Lecture Hall
Hangmen Also Die, will be viewed. Admis
sion $1.50.
November 14 at 7 PM 
Porter Hall 100
The second feature of the CarnegieMellon German Film Series will be Nacht
schatten, for mature audiences only - Free 
Admission.
coming events
Through November 25 
Phipps Conservatory, Schenley Park
The 1979 Fall Flower Show featuring more 
than 60,000 individual fall blooms, var
ieties of chrysanthemums and a threering circus returns to the conservatory 
after a 2.5 million dollar restoration. 
Hours are 10 AM to 5 PM and 7 PM to 
9 PM seven days a week. Admission is free 
on Saturdays.
November 16 - December 13 
Babcock Boulevard
Opening the Bevery Hills Playhouse season 
will be the presentation of The Lady Who 
Cried Fox. Tickets are available for a 
dinner/theatre package or just for the 
show. Call 931-9976 for more information. 
November 9, 10, 14-17 at 8 PM 
Kresge Theatre, Carlow College 
The comedy Mistress of the Inn will be pre
sented. For ticket information call 578- 
6036.arts _ special music
November 6 at 7:50 PM
WRCT presents the rerun of the Hayden/ 
Fonda lecture. 88.3 on the FM Dial. 
November 7 at 8pm 
Carnegie Lecture Hall
Japanese poet Gozo Yoshimasa, recipient 
of the 1979 Rekitei prize, will read his 
poetry in conjunction with the Inter
national Poetry Forum. For ticket Infor
mation call 621-9893.
November 9 at 8 PM
616 N. Highland Avenue, East Liberty.
Harmon H. Bro., PhD, will speak on the 
topic A Seer Out Of Season.Edgar Cayce 
After Thirty Five Years. This lecture, 
sponsored by the Association for Research 
and Enlightenment, will be given at the 
Pittsburgh Theological Seminary. Donation 
is $2. For more information call 422-9208. 
November 9-11 
Duquesne University
The Seventh Annual Dance-A-Thon for the 
benefit of the Muscular Distrophy Associa
tion will be held again this year in the 
Duquesne Univ. Student Union. For
more information, call 562-2000. 
November 10 at 10am and 12 noon 
Stanley Theatre, Downtown 
Mister Rogers and the cast of Neighbors 
from Mister Rogers' Neighborhood will 
present two special performances for the 
benefit of Children's Hospital. Tickets are 
available for $2.50 at the Stanley box of
fice and all Horne's Department Stores. 
November 10 at 8pm 
Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Ave., Downtown. 
Mummenschanz, the widly acclaimed Swiss 
Mime-mask troupe, will present their 
unique extravaganza. Tickets are $10, $9, 
and $8, on sale at the Heinz Hall box office 
and Kaufman's Department Store. Student 
discounts are available.
November 10-11
1111 East Carson St., Southside.
Father Matthew Fox, a Dominican priest 
and a well -known authority on American 
spirituality, will direct workshops at the 
Thomas Merton Center. For more infor
mation call 381-1400.
November 13 at 11 AM 
606 Academic Hall, Point Park College. 
"New Prospectives in the Middle East  
the Israeli View will be discussed when 
Yu va I Elizur, Washington Post Israeli 
correspondent, visits Pittsburgh. Free ad
mission.
November 14 at 8 PM.
Heinz Hall, 600 Penn Avenue, Downtown.
Direct from Mexico City, a spectacular 
program of folkloric dances and authentic 
music from several regions of Mexico 
will be performed by the widely acclaimed 
Gran Folklorico de Mexico. Tickets for the 
fiesta folkloric are $8.50, $7.50, and 
$6.50. Student discounts are available. 
For more information call 281-8185.
November 18
The Pittsburgh Men's Clan of CMU is 
sponsoring "A Night at the Circus for 
CMU Alumni and Friends. Tickets are 
$3.00 for General Admission, $4.00 for 
Reserved seating. Proceeds from the ticket 
sales will go to the Kiltie Marching Band 
toward the purchase of new uniforms. For 
more information and reservations, call 
578-2060.
November 6-11
Forbes and Margaret Morrison
Design students Wendy Alting, Rich Rande|, Roby Seligson and Len Tucci will dis
play their works at the Forbes Street Gal
lery. Gallery hours are Tuesday-Sunday 
12:30-4:30, Tuesday, Wednesday and 
Thursday evenings 7-9.
Through November 10 
Hewlett Gallery, College of Fine Arts 
Exhibiting paintings and serigraphs by 
CMU alumnus Hugh Kupets. Gallery hours: 
MondaySaturday 104; Sunday 15. 
November 10 - December 2 
PPA Gallery, 407 S. Craig Street 
The Pittsburgh Plan for Art announces an 
exhibit of the works of two local artists, 
Peter Calaboyias (sculptor) and Delbert 
Highlands (painter). Gallery hours are 
Tuesday to Saturday 10 to 5, Sunday 
1 to 5. Free admission.
Through December 2
Forbes and S. Bouquet Streets, Oakland.
The Pittsburgh Print Group will present 
its juried Fall Show of members' prints at 
the UP Gallery. The exhibit is free and 
open to the public. Gallery hours are Tuesday-Saturday, 10-4, and Sunday 2-5. 
Through January 1980 
Carnegie Institute
''Printmaking in Europe will run through 
January 31 in Gallery 10. The Pittsburgh 
International Series, featuring artists 
Chillida and deKooning, will be on view in 
Galleries 12,-A,B,C,D and the Entrance 
gallery through January 6. Museum hours 
are 10 AM to 5 PM Tuesday through Satur
day, and 1 PM to 5 PM on Sundays. Closed 
Mondays.
Through February 15,1980 
Hunt Institute -
"The Tradition of Fine Bookbinding in 
the Twentieth Century. an exhibit of ap
proximately 100 bookbindings, will be 
held at the Hunt Institute for Botanical 
Documentation. The gallery is free and 
open to the public, Mondays through Fri
days from 9 AM to 5 PM.theater
November 8 - 18
Studio Theatre, Cathedral of Learning, 
Pitt Campus
Eqqus, a guest production, will be 
presented. Call 624-6587 for more 
information.
November 8 - November 18 
Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center, Oak
land
The Point Park College Theatre Company 
will present Babes in Arms, a musical 
comedy by Rogers and Hart. For ticket 
information, call 621-4445.
November 8 - 25
Lovelace Marionette Studio, Shadyside.
Bits and Pieces, by award winning playwrite Corinne Jacker, will be presented. 
Call 683-3993 for more information.
Through November 18
The Playhouse Jr. will present The Ghost 
of Mr. Penny in the Hamlet Street Theatre 
(Pittsburgh Playhouse Theatre Center). For 
ticket information, calf 621-4445. 
November 14 - December 23 
Allegheny Theatre, North Side 
The Pittsburgh Public Theatre will present 
Anton Chekhov's comedy. The Seagull. 
For ticket information, call 765-3400.
the
Upcoming Concerts 
Danny Kresky Enterprises 
November 11 Pat Benetar at
Decade in Oakland. 
November 21 Tom Petty and the 
Heartbreakers, with
special guests The 
Fabulous Poodles at 
the Stanley.
December 2 The Who at the Civic 
Arena.
Dicesare-Engler
November 8-9 Billy Joel at the 
Civic Arena 
November 26 Fleetwood Mac at 
the Civic Arena.
November 27 Jefferson Starship at 
the Stanley.
Electric Factory Concerts 
November 6 Bonnie Raitt with The 
Nighthawks at the 
Syria Mosque.
November 23  The Outlaws, Molly 
Hatchet, and John 
Cougar at the Civic 
Arena.
November 30 and December 1 -
Grateful Dead at the Stanley. 
November 7 at 8PM 
Alumni Concert Hall, CFA
The Carnegie Mellon University Baroque 
Ensemble, conducted by Istvan Jerry, will 
perform featuring Telemann's Concerto for 
trumpet and J.S. Bach's minor Mass. Works 
by Corelli and Bach will also be presented. 
Featured will be James Beal, the district 
winner of the Metropolitan Opera 
auditions last spring. Free admission. 
November 8 at 8 PM 
November 9 at 8:30 PM 
November 11 at 2:30 PM 
Heinz Hall, Downtown 
The Pittsburgh Symphony -Orchestra will 
feature selections from Beethoven's "Lenore, Schumann's Symphony Number 3, 
and Bartk's Concerto, conducted by 
Lorin Maazel. For more information call 
281-5000.November 9 at 8:30PM 
Synod Hall, 125 N. Craig Street
The Renaissance and Baroque Society of
Pittsburgh will sponsor a performance by
the New York Renaissance Band in a pro-,
gram of Renaissance festival music. Tickets
available at the door.November 9 at 8PM
4836 Ellsworth Avenue, Oakland
Foxfire will play acoustic folk rock at a 
Coffee House at the Friends Meeting 
House. $3.00 Donation.
November 11 and 13 at 8 PM 
Eddy Theatre, Chatham College 
There will be a guests artists' recital fea 
turing members of the Pittsburgh Sympho
ny. Free admission.
November 11 at 8PM 
Chatham College Chapel 
Widely acclaimed coloratura soprano Elsa 
Charlston will be guest soloist with the 
Pittsburgh New Music Ensemble, con 
ducted by David Stock, in the first concert 
of the Ensemble's 1979-80 season. Free 
admission.
November 15 at 8PM 
Union Ballroom, Duquesne University 
Pure Prairie League will perform. Tickets 
are available at Union Information Center, 
Pitt Ticket Office; and the Skibo Infor
mation Desk.

---------------------------------------------------

OVEMBE
The Resurrection oi ROLLER SKATING!!!
,vr ~> i**
-fV ^

j
F"?r ii
i ' Jiris
*vJ -.yj
DOSSIERm a g a z i n e

---------------------------------------------------

XK
CAMPUS STORES' CORNER
Paper Back Book Sale!
Hundreds of Popular Titles 
at Fantastic Savings.
ListSale
Sword of Shannara$6.95$1.49
Diet for a Small Planet5.951.49
Recipes for a Small Planet5.951.49
The Sixties9.951.49
All Faulkner Novels3.95.99
Vegetarian Epicure4.95.99
HUNDREDS MORE!emu bookstore
trivia question
#7. Inside a large box are six boxes. Each Contains 3 small 
boxes. How many boxes are there?
Address
r~
ZXKZZZZZXXxxr::. xygrrrkw---------
!
:
NOON TIME MUSIC SERIES 
FRIDAY NOVEMBER 16 
SKIBO LOBBY
BRASS 
QUINTET
11
CO-SPONSORED BY
CAMPUS PROGRAM PLANNING 
& CMU MUSIC DEPARTMENT
DOSSIER
Here we are again with another collection of goodies 
just for you. We think vou will enjoy what weve chosen 
for vou this month and wed love to hear your comments 
even if vou didnt. Why not write to us and tell us what you 
think? All fan mail, hate mail and suggestions can be sent to 
TARTAN, Box 17 or stop by our office in Skibo room 50. 
All mail should be labled DOSSIER. Were looking forward 
to hearing from you.
PAGES
Bill Kapner explores the Rhodesian 
conflict and how it effects America 
and you.
Sloppy Joe and Deveraux give us some 
helpful hints that you will never learn
 in a classroom.
Sue Borg shares some experiences she 
had while travelling through Europe.
Louis Ball, a foreign student, takes a 
 look at the lives of foreign students 
here at CMU.
Once again Jeff Zaslow, in his infi
nite wisdom, reveals some of the 
truths of the universe.
Lynn Epstein looks at the rebirth of 
a trend and how people of all ages
 are rolling along with it.
Richard Jackman has an idea about 
how to relieve mid-semester tension.
UCheck out his short story Falling.
Lisa Amowitz and Louise Molnar 
journeyed to Shadyside and came
0 back with visions of Haiti, artistic 
looking egg beaters and days gone 
by.
Editor: Susan Borg
Art Director: Lisa Amowitz
Tom Hart, Linda Held, Andy Epstein 
Laurel Herman, Louise Molnar 
Sterne Slaven, Georgeanne Cherpes 
Robert Zussman, Maryellyn Lynott
cover photograph by Robert Zussman
cover design by Lisa Amowitz graphic design by Tom Hart
Copyright 1979 by the Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity TARTAN. The Editorial Board re
serves the right to edit nr withhold from pub
lication any copy it deems unfit for publica
tion.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED

---------------------------------------------------

POLITICS
Turmoil in Zimbabwe
by Bill Kapner
A little over two years ago, eight of the 19 
Rhodesian students enrolled in this universitys 
School of Urban and Public Affairs publicly de
nounced their course of study in Public Ma
nagement as politically motivated. Almost 
immediately, media sources around the world 
picked up the story and turned it into an ex
plosive, and for the CMU administration embarassing, political issue.
Logically it appeared that the eight students 
had a legitimate gripe. Allegheny Ludlum, 
a Pittsburgh based corporation, partially spon
sored and initiated the program which brought 
the students here. Allegheny Ludlum is heavily 
dependent on Rhodesian chrome. Last August 
The Christian Science Monitor reported that 
Allegheny Ludlum convinced the government 
of the neighboring Republic of South Africa 
to funnel some 1 million dollars into the then 
pro western United African National Council, 
one of the several political factions vying for 
power in Zimbabwe, Rhodesia.
Not much has been heard on this campus 
about Rhodesian politics since the SUPA mess 
blew over at end of the 77-78 school year. But 
much has changed in the small South African 
country since then and it appears that even
..the fighting in 
Zimbabwe is 
intensifying...
greater changes may be forthcoming.
As the war between the Patriotic Front, led 
by Joshua Nkomo and Robert Mugabe, and the 
government of Abel Muzorewa continues to 
rage, thousands of Rhodesians, both Black and 
White, are fleeing the country each week and 
the nation's supply of skilled professional 
people is rapidly diminishing. Many White set
tlers are abandoning their farms and, along 
with poor rural tribesmen, are going to the 
cities to seek refuge from the war but are now 
finding the cities almost as dangerous as the 
countryside. The war is rapidly draining the 
economy by monopolizing the nations re
sources both in ' terms of money and man
power. These troubles are compounded by 
sanctions imposed by Western nations which 
prevent Rhodesia from engaging in economic 
relationships with the wealthy industrialized 
nations of the West.
Last May, Abel Muzorewa, a Black Methodist 
minister, was elected prime minister of the 
country. Under his administration, however, 
the White minority still retains great power, 
e agreed to reserve enough seats for Whites
,5/ / \
sW(t"GF-"VSi >
.. ~ o*V\ / ^
V I ^ \
! rV->
ifF. T H \ O PI A
jA t I a n i i c
O c n 
U'NA ____J 'I
.GAflONIN T
/ tflv I 11*
fy KENYA
C ABinDA
2 rat'
A V _____
AiosSnta H I PUSUC\YXfc^D Like
ANZANIA
J\(ations
f
ica
v...J
f
ANGOLA
7 A.0
,Nbr|HBHI
OF M4V.K A
CHeanaH
(^OilTHW riU
Wf $T, -
.4 Pnte*-ux
if 8lC a
REpJeLic
of) - ytfi 
south 
AFfirCA
C/H: Towr.
n
in Parliament to give them veto power over 
any legislation. Former Prime Minister Ian 
Smith was appointed to an unspecified, but 
powerful, cabinet position in another pro
vision. These compromises, coupled with the 
fact that no members of the Patriotic Front 
were included on the election ballot in May, 
have angered both Nkomo and Mugabe who are 
fighting for an unconditional Black rule. 
Subsequently, the fighting has been stepped 
up since the elections. A meeting in neigh
boring Zambia attended by Britains P-M 
Margaret Thatcher failed to bring any solution 
to the problems. Now the parties are meeting 
in London under the chairmanship of British 
foreign secretary Lord Carrington to once again 
attempt to hammer out some agreement.
The talks are making some progress. They 
have reached the point where Abel Muzorewa 
is willing to step down from his post so that an 
interim British government can supervise 
elections sometime early next year. Through
out the two month old conference both 
sides have been making concessions.
Meanwhile, back in the small Southern 
African nation, the white settlers, rural blacks 
and western missionaries are caught both 
politically and physically in the crossfire. 
Guerilla troops threaten the lives of rural 
villagers in order to gain information to the 
whereabouts of government troops. A few 
days later the government troops will come and 
kill villagers for providing information to the 
guerillas. Missionary hospitals, which in some
parts of the Rhodesian countryside provide the 
only medical care within feasible traveling dis
tances, are coming under the fire of both sides 
because of alleged sympathies with the oppo
site camp. Conditions are becoming so bad that 
most of the missionaries are in the process of 
leaving or have already left the country. Many 
of their hospitals are now without trained doc
tors and are run by nurses or shut down com
pletely.
For the most part, the rural blacks, who 
comprise the majority of the countrys popula
tion, are politically indifferent as to who runs 
Zimbabwe Rhodesia; their only concern at the
... their only 
concern is for
peace and 
_______normalcy..
present is for a return to peace and normalcy.
As for the response of the United States, 
the Carter administration is being pressured by 
the U.S. congress to take action which would 
benefit the Muzorewa government. At the same 
| time, he is pressured by the Black African 
nations (most notably Nigeria) to retain the 
economic sanctions and thus symbolicly not re
cognize the Black led, but white supported, 
Muzorewa administration. Nigeria is the num
ber one supplier of gasoline to the U.S. There 
was great fear in the past among Carters advi^oi^haMMh^^^^doe^if^anction^ndr^^^
continued on page 14

---------------------------------------------------

BEST BETS______________
Twenty steps to easy living
4.
by Sloppy Joe and Devereaux 
1. HOWTO: taste wine.
Buy a very expensive bottle of wine. Take 
the cork out and sniff it, or at least appear to 
sniff it. No matter what you smell, smile 
knowingly, nod slightly, and put an expression 
somewhere between rapture and distaste on 
your face. Pour some wine in a glass. Sniff 
the glass, and do the same thing you did for the 
cork and the glass. (Many prefer that the glass 
be sniffed empty. This is stupidglass smells 
like glass.) Now raise the glass, and pour some 
of the wine into your mouth. Taste the wine. 
Do the same thing that you did for the cork, 
the glass, and the wine in the glass, except 
when youre finished, spit the wine out of your 
mouth, wipe your mouth, and go get a beer.
2. HOW TO: be the first person to land on 
Mars.
Find a nice, big rocket. A good place to 
look is eastern Florida, but watch out for the 
guard dogs. Get into the rocket and put on 
one of those space suit things. Take off. 
Drive the rocket away from earth. Look 
out for the moon. Leave the earth's orbit, and 
head towards that red planet with all the little 
lines. When you get near Mars, you 11 have to 
be extra careful-Mars has two moons. Find a 
nice flat place to land, and park the rocket on 
Mars. Get out. Yell out, Im the first person 
to land on Mars. (You 11 find that Mars is 
a nice place, but it lacks atmosphere.)
3. HOW TO: scale a mountain.
Get a very long tape measure. Climb to the 
very tippy top of the mountain that you wish 
to scale. Climb back down, leaving the tape 
measure at the top of the mountain. Look 
at the bottom of the tape measure to see how 
tall the mountain is. Multiply or divide this 
number by the ratio you wish to scale the 
mountain up or down by.
Alternate method number 1. Go out and 
catch millions of fish. Scrape all of the scales 
off of the fish. Put the scales in a bag and take 
the bag to the mountain. (It may take two 
bags) Glue the scales all over the mountain.
Alternate method number 2. Pick the 
mountain up by the roots and put it on one 
side of a large teeter-totter. Put a whole bunch 
of weights on the other side until the teetertotter balances.
4. HOWTO: fly a plane.
Get into the cockpit. Be careful only to 
walk where the writing on the wing tells you 
to. Turn on the motor (or motors) so that the 
propellers spin around and around. Aim the 
plane down the runway. Drive the plane up 
into the sky. Press the pedals, move the con
trols, and watch the dials do nifty things. 
Drive to your destination. Drive the plane 
down to the other airport. Park the plane on 
the ground (parallel parking not required.) 
Turn off the motors. Get out of the plane 
(being careful only to walk where the writing 
on the wing tells you to.
5. HOW TO: pilot a submarine.
See: 4. how to fly a plane. But reverse
up and down directions.
6. HOW TO: build the tallest building in the 
world.
Go to a landfill area and find a whole mess 
of bricks, some steel beams, windows, doors 
and elevators and pile then on top of each 
other. Apply glue sparingly. Keep stacking 
and gluing until its taller than anything youve 
ever seen. (If your mother says, Big deal, Ive 
seen taller!, then keep stacking.)

---------------------------------------------------

7. HOW TO: make new friends.
Go down to Sears and buy a whole bunch
of arms, legs, livers, kidneys, lungs, veins and 
all that biological kind of stuff. Glue them to
gether. (If you used up all your glue on the 
buildings, stapling the parts together is acceptible. You may wish to use flesh-colored 
staples for aesthetic reasons.)
8. HOW TO: get into a grad school.
Goof off for four years of undergraduate
"study. Be on probation. Insult lots of ad
ministrators. When it comes time to go to / 
grad school, fly out to a better university, 
walk right into the office of the universitys 
president and ask dad when you start.
9. HOW TO: do well once youre in grad
school
Make sure you professors know who your = 
father is.
10. HOW TO: solve arguments with your
spouse.
Get a divorce: if you have to fight, they're 
not worth it in the first place.
11. HOW TO: have a successful radio show on 
WRCT (F.M. 88.3) Wednesdays, 6-9 P.M.
Write for Dossier and get lots of free publi
city. Then, when people tune in, talk silly, 
and play lots of stupid stuff. When accused of 
being perverse and threatened with lawsuits, 
dare accuser to find "Sloppy Joe and Devereaux in the phone book. If tracked down, 
hide under the ocean until the heat is off 
(see 5. how to pilot a submarine)
12. HOWTO: fix your car.
First, make sure something is wrong with 
your car. Common indications of trouble 
include flames shooting out from under the 
hood, repetitive explosions and moaning and 
crying noises from the trunk. To fix it, open 
the hood and speak to it reassuringly. Send 
it get well cards. Buy it flowers. Give it plenty 
of fluids, lots of rest and genuine Bayer aspirin. 
Let your brother out of the trunk. Failing any 
of these, replace any broken parts (with new 
ones.)
13. HOW TO: get rid of your triskiadecaphobia.
Trade it in for acriphobia, claustrophobia, 
two future draft choices, and several Salpiglossi (Any of a small genus of Chilean herbs 
of the Nightshade family, with large funnelshaped varicolored flowers, often strikingly
marked.) # byS
MtAT HEHELL?
Cv
14. HOW TO: park your car and solve your| 
Oedipal crisis.
Drive your car (after any necessary repairsI 
see 12. how to fix your car) to a parkingspace. Attempt to enter the parking space. 
If you hit another car already in the space, 
drive away and park you car. Walk back to the 
space you originally liked. Place several sticks 
of dynamite under the car. Call your dad. 
Tell him to get into that car. (Make sure 
youre already through grad school, see 8 and 
9) light fuse, and run away casually. Drive 
your car to the newly-emptied space. Call I 
your mom.
TW,
15. HOWTO: become a famous poet.
Write famous poems.
16. HOW TO: be first in your graduatingl
class.
Change your name to Abdul Aaron.
17. HOW TO: have bigger busts.
Have more drugs when the police arrive.
18. HOWTO: lose a baseball game.
Play with a fruit bat.
19. HOWTO: make a fruit fly.
Throw it out the window.
20. HOW TO: end all the problems of the| 
world.
With a d, of course.

---------------------------------------------------

CONFIDENTIAL6
Reflections of a Traveler
by SlopJ eand
Planning a two month trip to Europe is 
I sometimes as exciting as the actual travelling. 
I knew from the beginning that I had to see 
the Eiffel Tower and the Roman Colosseum. 
I knew that I couldn't miss the Louvre or 
the Van Gogh Museum. But there were lots of 
things that I didn't know. I could not have an
ticipated not finding a place to sleep in Verona 
and spending the night huddled between rail
road cars  shivering. I couldnt have known 
just when I would run out of money and be 
forced to eat nothing but bread for a few days. 
But what surprised me most was the emotion 
that I experienced while seeing things that I 
[ had only seen in books and my dreams.
History came alive for me as I cruised down 
the Rhine which is lined with vineyards and 
medieval castles. I imagined the gladiators 
and envisioned myself as Daisy Miller while 
walking through the Colosseum in Rome. The 
! Acropolis conjured up images of mythology 
and ancient philosophers.
| History, however, does not always mean 
fond memories. Every country in Europe has 
lost thousands in the World Wars and smaller
...history does 
not always mean 
fond memories..
battles throughout the centuries. As an Amer
ican who is spoiled by the fact that the United 
States has been lucky enough to avoid fighting 
on her mainland, I was surprised by the num
ber of war memorials in each country. As a 
I Jew who has learned from infancy about the 
horrors that have been committed on my 
people, the reality of the holocaust took on 
a whole new meaning.
I have been barraged with all kinds of in
formation on the holocaust  poetry, pic
tures and diaries  through more than ten 
years of religious school. Ive had teachers who 
spent time in concentration camps and their 
horror stories were very much in my mind. But 
until I walked through the deserted concentra
tion camp in Dachau,Germany,the cold reality 
of the holocaust had never really hit me. Until 
I saw the barracks built for 60 that held 600, 
until I saw the "showers" that were really gas 
chambers, and until I saw the crematoriums, I 
had never really concieved of the holocaust as 
reality. It had been a horrible nightmare: some
thing that we would never forget, but someidling that wasnt real.
As I rode the subway from Munich to 
Dachau I thought about how lucky I am. I 
thought about my family and all the others 
who were not on a shiny new subway car but 
on cattle cars that reeked of human filth and 
disease. They had no choice about where they 
would leave the train as I did. They were not 
visitors of this place; they were residents. They 
inhabited the gas chambers and crematoriums 
that now stand as a memorial to their wasted 
lives.
I walked along the gravel road that leads to 
the crematorium and was stricken by the 
beautiful countryside. I felt rage. I didnt know 
who I was mad at. The locals - who were so 
immersed in themselves that they didn't know
or didnt care to know about what was going 
on in their own backyards? The Germans  
for actually trying to wipe out a whole race of 
people? God - who could create such natural 
beauty and also allow such monstrous happen
ings?
Then I felt sorrow and most of all con
fusion  confusion about God, man and life 
in general. Why are we here if there is no God? 
If there is a God how could he allow something 
like this to happen?
It would have been easier for me to write 
this off as the work of a vicious and barbaric 
people; but, the Germans were, without ex
ception, friendly, hospitable and helpful. The 
Germans are people like all people. They have 
their own culture and heritage; but their his
tory does not lend itself to committing geno
cide any more than ours does. I dont believe 
what happened there happened because these 
people were Germans, but because the Ger
mans are people. This is the scary part; people 
have it in them to do this. And people can do 
| it again no matter how long we say never.
This was clear to me when I saw two teenage 
boys laughing at the emaciated prisoners in 
i the Dachau photo museum. It was clear when 
I saw the total lack of respect for the memorial 
in the graffiti all over the walls in the deserted 
camp. It was clear when in an Italian station a 
stranger began yelling about "good for nothing 
Jews. And it was painfully clear when we 
spent time with a Jewish family who was 
forced to leave its native Poland because Jews 
cannot live and work in Poland without being 
harassed.
It was an awesome thought, but one that has 
been with me since my trip. I cried in Dachau 
for my people and my family who *were lost 
there. I also cried for all of us and the terrible 
inclination that we all have for hatred, pre
judice and viciousness that will always cause 
suffering and is probably beyond our con
trol. __________________________
..if we forget, 
it will happen 
again... 1
My experience at Dachau was powerful; but, 
like all experiences it will inevitably fade with 
time. It is parodoxical that we can not live 
normal and happy lives if we constantly dwell 
on the horrors of life; but, if we should allow 
ourselves to forget, the same things will happen 
again  right under our noses. We must reach 
a happy medium where we allow ourselves to 
be happy and enjoy the good qualities that 
people offer while remaining wary of the hid
den evils that we are capable of.
I achieved this happy medium while travel
ling this summer. I experienced some of the 
most miraculous beauty that man has ever 
created while walking through the Vatican 
museum and the Louvre. I had never really 
understood the word breathtaking until I stood 
in front of Michaelangelos David. I marveled 
at the Sistine Chapel and the wonder of mans 
creativity.
But there were constant reminders of mans 
brutality and hate. There wasnt one small 
town that did not have a memorial for its 
war dead. Occasionally I would pass a building 
that had a swastika hastily painted on. I 
visited a Jewish cemetary in Pisa where man}
continued on page 14

---------------------------------------------------

People of the world mingle at CMU
lo pJye an dDSS
Have you ever dreamed of meeting people 
from distant and exotic places? Well, believe 
it or not, CMU is a great place to do this. There 
are over three hundred foreign students from 
over forty different countries at CMU. Many 
come from places as distant as China and Li
beria, and most are graduate students.
Foreign students are not a new phenome
non at CMU which has attracted students from, 
literally, all over the world for many years,
turning the campus into a little United Nations. 
A.11 of the foreign students at CMU, except for
a few who came to study English at the 
Translation and English Center, are required to 
be able to read, write and speak English fluent
ly before coming to CMU. In addition, all for
eign students must have above average grades 
from their own countries before being admit
ted to Carnegie-Mellon.
Most of the foreign students Ive spoken to 
said that they've had an easy time adapting to 
life in the U.S., and all of them speak very 
good, but heavily accented English. (I am a 
heavily accented foreigner myself.) Most of 
the foreign students Ive met said that they 
have to work very hard to get decent grades, 
and some of them admitted that they are work
ing a lot harder here than they ever did in their 
own countries.
Suprisingly, it seems that none of the foreign 
students at CMU are homesick. Some of them 
pointed out the fact that a student from the 
west coast goes home as seldom as most of the 
foreign students. A student from Venezuela, 
for example, said that it would make no 
difference if his home were in California,
American men: 
too shy or 
too fresh
because he would not be able to go home 
more than twice a year anyway. Obviously, if 
they are not homesick, they must be happy at 
CMU; most of them are. Many like Pittsburgn 
and very few have complaints about CMU. The 
social life at CMU, and *he drinking age in
Pennsylvania, however, are among the major 
complaints.
The overwhelming majority of foreign stu
dents say that they like Americans in general; 
however, a girl from South America found 
American men either too shy or too fresh." 
No one has found any difficulty in meeting 
people and making American friends. A stu
dent from Hong Kong expressed the feelings 
of many, when he said that it had been very 
easy for him to make friends because when 
you first arrive, everybody wants to talk to 
you and ask you questions about your coun
try."
As much as they like Americans, the foreign 
students find some flaws in them. Many of the 
foreign students are surprised by the Ameri
cans ignorance of world geography. A stu
dent from Taiwan said he had met many Americans who did not know that Taiwan and 
Formosa are the same island. A student from 
Venezuela also complained that Americans 
think that all Latin American countries are 
the same; some even think of countries as 
large as Argentina as banana republics." But 
even while complaining about the Americans' 
ignorance, they are quick to admit that many 
people in their own countries have never 
heard of New York.
Some of these foreign students have seen 
places, such as the Amazon and The Great 
Wall of China, that many Americans have only 
dreamt of seeing. Others have had experiences 
that Americans would never think or want to 
have. One example of the drawbacks of being a 
foreigner is a student from South Korea, who 
was deported back to his country last year, be
cause all Korean men, without exception, must 
serve in the army.
There is a foreign student organization at 
CMU called the International Student Organi
zation (I.S.O.) which is open to all foreign and 
American students.
Hubert Wen, the president of I.S.O., says 
that the organization's primary goal is to bring 
foreign and American students together. Mem
bers have the opportunity to meet and mix 
with students from around the world, and 
share experiences. I.S.O. is active in orientation 
for new foreign students, and is also planning 
an inter-cultural week for the entire campus.
Most of the foreign students at CMU came 
here because they think that American univer
sities in general are better than the universities 
in their own countries, but all the students Ive 
met plan to go back to their countries after 
they graduate. Some have scholarships provid
ed by their governments which often require 
that they work a few years for their govern
ments after graduation.
After talking with a large number of foreign 
students I was surprised by the quickness of 
their adaptation to the U.S., and by the many 
similarities they have with American students. 
There is no doubt that the foreign students are 
one of CMUs biggest assets: they make life 
a lot more interesting.

---------------------------------------------------

A Guide to
by Jefferey Zadow
In the first issue of DOSSIER, you were told 
that theres nothing wrong with mental mastur
bation - ie., playing with ones own brain for 
the purposes of self-satisfaction.
So youve spent a month playing with 
yourself, and now youre feeling guilty about 
it.
Forget it. Relax. Flutter your eyelids. It's 
ok. And heres the chance to ramble a little 
more. There are a zillion truths to the universe.
QUESTIONS YOUR CHILDREN MIGHT ONE 
DAY ASK YOU
1) Who puts lint in bellybuttons?
2) Why cant I go sledding uphill9
3) Who invented indoor recess?
4) If I go to the bathroom on the rug, will
you clean it up?
5) Whats black and white and read all over?
6) Did Gary Gilmore die for my sins?
7) May I stay up past my bedtime to smoke a 
joint?
REASONS FOR NOT GOING TO THE 
DENTIST
1) Hell ask you how often you floss your 
teeth, and no matter what you tell him, he 
knows youre lying.
2) Dentists plant cavaties in your teeth when 
theyre puttering around in your mouth. 
Then they find the planted cavaties and 
regretfully inform you that they have to 
start drilling.
3) They ask you, Does this hurt? all the 
time and if you shake your head in a yes 
motion, they just smile.
4) Dentist always make such a moral issue 
over dental care. They use words like 
decay all the time, and always give you 
such odd looks if they suspect youre 
not brushing often enough. If dentistry 
were a religion, people with bad teeth would 
be outcasts. People who switched back to 
Crest from other, inferior brands would 
be born again. And flossing, like going to 
church on Sunday, would be the accepted 
and expected social ethic of the religion.
THINGS YOU CAN ONLY DO WITH YOUR 
RIGHT HAND
1) Hitch-hike.
2) Touch your left elbow.
3) Shake hands with a man who had his left 
arm amputated.
PLACES TO DONATE YOUR ORGANS 
BESIDES SIGNING THEM AWAY TO BOR
ING RESEARCH SCIENTISTS
1) The Salvation Army. If you give your or
gans to the Salvation Army, they can help 
drunks get a fresh start in society. The SA 
is especially interested in liver donations. 
The drunks, you know.
2) Donate your organs to the Sera-Tech Bio
logical Plasma Lab down in Oakland. Al
though they only pay an average of ten 
dollars for a pint of plasma, theyve been 
known to give several hundred bucks for 
functioning organs.
3) The Kimball Organ Company. Pianos and 
organs are in high demand right now. The 
Kimball Company will probably offer 
you top dollar for your organ. Especially if 
it's in tune.
4) The Liberty Avenue Triple XXX Novelty 
Shop. This shop will buy your organ if its 
ripe enough and versatile enough. However, 
if you'll be embarrassed seeing your organ 
displayed on the shelf of a two-bit sex gear 
shop, then dont make your donation 
here. A donation of this kind is not for the 
squeamish.
THINGS YOU CAN DO WITH YOUR EYES 
CLOSED
1) sleep
2) bump into things
3) hear television
DONT YOU JUST HATE IT WHEN ....
1) boring, unwashed, repetitive people label 
themselves as zany?
2) brides are constantly described as beam
ing? It sounds like Star Trek. Bride to 
Enterprise . . . bride to Enterprise ... I'll 
be beaming up now, Scotty.
3) Dope heads, not content with being burnt 
out insist on referring to their condition 
as really burnt out.
NEW AND DIFFERENT THINGS TO SAY TO
PEOPLE AT GRADUATION
1) I'm glad you have a good job. I always 
thought you were the prime example of 
hopelessness, despair and wasted tuition} 
so I'm really pleased that you did some
thing with your miserable life.
2) If I never see you again, remember that 
I've always had poor vision, and I never saw 
you too well during the four years we were 
here.
3) Boy, I didnt expect your parents to be 
this ugly.
4) Well, professor, I want to thank you for 
all you've done for me in my college career. 
If I ever sleep my way to the top of my pro
fession, I'll be sure to tell everyone that I 
slept with you first.
PLACES TO GO IF YOURE LOST IN THE 
DESERT WITHOUT ANY WATER
1) The nearest Roadside Information Center 
and Coffee Shop.
2) The home of a friend vou know who lives 
in the desert.
QUESTIONS REPORTERS NEVER ASK
1) Does the Pope use deoderant?
2) Is Rosalyn Carter a Moaner?
J5) Well Ted, now that you want to put Chap 
paquidick behind you, can you tell us . . . 
Was Mary Jo good?

---------------------------------------------------

the Rambling Brain Part II
PEOPLE WHO PROBABLY PARK IN HAN
DICAPPED SPACES AT THE MALLS
1) Ignoramuses who are too lazy to find a 
space a little further from the Malls front 
door and are too wicked, unthinking and 
thoughtless to realize that there are handi
capped people in the world who really need 
to park in those spaces,
82) handicapped people.
CALM THINGS TO SAY TO PEOPLE WHEN 
YOU'RE ABOUT TO LOSE YOUR COOL . . .
1) Youre watching the conclusion of a movie 
on T.V. and some jerk, who should have 
been institutionalized long ago, comes in 
and asks What happened?
All you have to say is, Oh, nothing 
happened. I've just been watching this 
movie and lots of commercials in between. 
Its been a boring evening, so far. But after 
this movie, I think Ill ^ave a beer, brush my 
teeth, put on my pajamas and set you on 
fire."
2) Youre hitch-hiking, and some bum in a 
beat-up buick, who looks like he just got 
off the Indian reservation, picks you up and 
tells you hes only going two blocks.
All you have to say is, Oh, thats fine. 
Im headed 42 blocks straight ahead, and 
Im already ten minutes late . . . but two 
blocks is close enough. Thank you very 
much.
3) Youre studying for a midterm and some 
slob, who only studies in leap year inter
vals and was never meant by the good Lord 
to be a college student, comes in and sits 
down on your bed to shoot the bull.
All you have to say is, Hi, Slob. I 
don't mind if you grease up my bed. I 
dont mind if you stink up my room. I 
don't mind that you're on final final pro
bation and are the laughing stock of the 
free world. But if you open your mouth 
and try to shoot the bull with me, I'm 
going to pull out your eyeballs and stuff 
them alternately up your nostrils.
4) Youre sitting in class, thinking erotic 
thoughts and not concentrating on the 
blackboard, when your fat professor, who 
doesnt have a neck or a belt to hold up his 
plaid trousers, asks you to comment on his 
last impenetrable sentence.
All you have to say is, Im sorry, sir.
I was thinking about caressing that lovely 
person in the front row, so I wasnt even 
listening to you. Im sure you were saying 
something quite interesting and informative, 
but Im actually enjoying having sexual 
fantasies back here. So, if you don't mind,
4) ITS ALL GREEK TO ME. Why not, Its 
all GEEK to me? Or Its All Greek on 
Me? Any why Greek? Why not, It's all 
Fortran to me? Or its all gutter-talk, or 
Warner Hall lingo?
5) RING MY BELL. Is that an order or a 
request? Is it sexual or audible? When can 
I stop ringing.
THINGS YOU CAN ONLY DO ON THE
SATURDAY NIGHT/SUNDAY MORNING
THAT WE TURN THE CLOCKS BACK
1) Study for an hour, and get in two hours 
worth of work.
2) Call long distance for two hours and only 
pay for one hour.
3) Call the Time lady and hear how mixed up 
she is.
I'd like to pass that question you just 
asked me and I'll just continue what I was 
doing.
REASONS TO GIVE THANKS ON
THANKSGIVING
1) No flies have wandered into your mouth 
this year.
2) You are sure of your heterosexuality. Or 
else, youre sure, and satisfied, that you're 
not hetero.
3) Everyone is fond of you.
4) Many people have commented that you 
look stunning in your new outfit.
5) Trolleys no longer run on Forbes Avenue, 
so its now impossible to get hit by a 
trolley while crossing Forbes.
6) The gang thinks you look very clever now 
that youre going bald.
7) You've gained weight, but so has everyone 
else.
EXPRESSIONS THAT AGGRAVATE YOU
1) IN THE NICK OF TIME. Why not, In the 
Rick of Time? or In the Charley of 
Time?
2) WITHOUT A DOUBT. Youre ordering ice 
cream and the cone-girl asks, Would you 
like jimmies, a cherry and a doubt? So 
you have to answer, Ill take the jimmies 
and a cherry, but give it to me without a 
a doubt.
3) SIT ON MY FACE. Face-sitting, while 
possibly an enjoyable endeavor, must be 
very awkward. And how long can it go on? 
Certainly not for a cross-country bus ride, 
a full-length movie or a slow-moving 
engineering lecture.
WHAT TO DO IF YOU'RE WALKING UP A 
DARK ALLEY AND YOU RUMP INTO A 
PITTSBURGH STEELER
1) Light a cigarette and ask the Steeler if he 
wants one.
2) Compliment the Steeler on last years 
Super Bowl victory.
WHAT TO DO IF YOURE WALKING UP A
DARK ALLEY AND YOU BUMP INTO A
CMU TARTAN
1) Compliment the Tartan on the fine season 
the team has had this year and wish him 
luck in the future.
2) Ask him what the hell a Tartan really is. 
Is he happy to be a Tartan? Tell him 
Tartan is a pretty gay mascot, wouldnt 
you say?" Then run like crazy.
WHEN TO WEAR GREEN BESIDES ST.
PATRICKS DAY
1) When you want to walk across a golf course 
incognito.
2) When all you red and blue outfits are in the 
wash.
3) Whenever you want.
PEOPLE WHO PROBABLY STEAL HUBCAPS
1) People who sell stolen hubcaps for a living.
2) Big-busted women who play a lot of tackle 
football and need oversized chest pro
tectors.
3) People who are trying to get in the Guiness 
Book of World Records for having the 
largest hubcap collection in the wo

---------------------------------------------------

The Resurrection of rollerskating
lo povv ruex1yv 
.H oHJ remember your first pair of roller 
skates? You know, the ones that were adjust
able steel and clamped onto your shoes? 
Every kid on the block went ripping along 
sidewalks and streets in these skates, until each 
was old enough to hang out at the rink. As 
Patty, manager of Shady Skates in Shadyside, 
recalled: "It was the only place where you 
could go and make-out. But that was in the 
sixties, when hula hoops and Twister were 
still "in. Somewhere in the interim between 
then and now, skating lost its appeal in the 
barraqe of high tech, more "adult toys and 
sports. But skating, along with its sixties 
counterpart, the skateboard, has made its 
comeback. And its here to stay.
In the recent struggle to simplify and per
sonalize, skating has again become popular,
and this trend is something that both Ernie 
Pearl and Tom Stenson picked up on. In 
their new equipment and rental shop, Shady
Skates, Ernie and Tom have found a large 
demand for and enthusiasm in skating. Open 
since mid-summer, Shady Skates is the only 
street skate rental store in Pittsburgh, and 
business is rolling.
Located in a small white building behind the 
Giant Eagle in Shadyside, it has gained an 
amazing reputation among people and groups 
of all ages. Skaters are everywhere in Shady
side, in Oakland, downtown, on campus, and 
they range from four years to seventy. Walking 
down Walnut Street, the skaters one sees stum
bling or gliding along are Shady Skates best 
form of advertisement. There are young cou
ples and young tots, teens and old-agers, and 
all seem to be smiling and having a good time. 
To most of the younger set, skating is some
thing new, but to the older fans, it signifies a 
revival of times past, often a sentimental ex
perience. Patty tells of a time that she and 
a friend skated into the Red Bull: OW1
skated up to the bar, and we noticed an old
T:1 t1lytx: Hs tHSS1tewDi
xyvB ltyvBe fyx: yx ltyB:xi
So kHSHt1h Dxxyt1 sHt 1c1to 
ewDxyvB HkkDeeyHvn
couple sitting nearby; they must have been in 
their late seventies, and grinning from ear to 
ear watching us. They had courted on skates. 
It is surprising how many teenagers and college 
students have never skated. When I was 
younger, it was almost a way of life.
Since Shady Skates is located on 235 Shady 
Avenue, it is very common to see skaters 
in Shadyside, but other popular places include 
Highland Park, CMU, and Three Rivers Sta
dium. Tennis courts make an excellent rink, 
as do the ramps and arena in an empty stadi
um. Basically the people at Shady Skates 
have found drivers to be very considerate of 
skaters. There have been no serious accidents, 
only the predictable scrapes, bruises, and 
blisters, but it is extremely important that 
a skater take safety precautions when out on 
the street.
The first safety aspect to consider is the 
proper equipment. Good skates in good repair 
are a must, as is the wearing of elbow and 
knee pads. At Shady Skates, the skates are 
checked over when returned and repaired at 
least once a week, replacing worn toe stops and 
tightening trucks. Although they sport a vari
ety of skates for sale, the rental skates are 
made by Chicago an above average brand
that is sturdy, reliable, and costs in the $100 
range. For the expert, there are Douglas 
Snyder skates that cost around $300, but for
the averane fun-lovinq street skater the main 
elements to check for are good workmanship,
,:HxHBtDu:e loN bDto1SSov povHxx

---------------------------------------------------

a good leather boot, precision or semi-preci
sion wheels, and a sturdy plate and trucks. 
Sure-grip, Chicago, and Sanjon wheels are 
good buys.
Besides the use of proper equipment, a 
I street skater must always be aware of surIroundings, especially traffic. Night skating is 
1 exciting and fun, but be careful to watch for 
I cars as well as bumps, cracks, and gravel. And 
la word of advice to beginners: learn first how
I to stop, and be sure to stay relaxed and supple. 
Falls are only more frequent and painful 
when a skater is tense.
For prospective enthusiasts, Shady Skates 
will soon begin a program of lessons, with 
classes ranging from beginners to advanced, 
and varied areas such as disco skating. Shady 
Skates is open from 12 to 7 on all days except 
for Wednesday, when they are open from 12 
to 9. There is a $70 security deposit and a 
$2.50 per hour rental rate, with a minimum 
of 2 hours on weekends, one hour on week
days. For all-night or all-day skaters there is 
a flat charge of $10. Besides the rental system, 
a variety of skating equipment is also on sale. 
Briqht and satiny jackets, shorts, and caps 
are available, along with small and fun ac
cessories such as silver winged arm bands and 
disco socks.
Whatever you use skating for disco, trans
portation, health, fun, or high speed thrills 
it is cheap, safe, and definitely a craze that is 
sure to last for quite a time. It can be done 
alone or in groups and is just as fun for be
ginners as it is for experts. Although the 
attitudes of the Happy Days era might not 
accompany the resurrection of roller skating, 
there will always be a market for the type of 
activity that skating providesan exciting, 
adventurous, fast, and fun experience.
SKATING -"an 
adventurous, fast
| exciting, and
*fun experience.

---------------------------------------------------

ICTION12.
f
s'
mgyyP(
lo Myk:Dth Dkw)Dv
He was standing looking at where the black 
Porsche had come to rest, contemplating its 
juxtaposition with the brick pier. The noise 
had woken him up. The screaming siren and 
then the sound of flung steel submitting to 
inert mass. Standing with some of his friends 
watching the reddish fluid ooze from the 
machine and the policemen quietly talking 
and the people from Ginos and Petes blocking 
shut their injured door and the big angry police 
dog incessantly barking from its cage in the van 
under the slowly revolving red light of the 
siren.
He had gone to bed early in anticipation of 
leaving at 5:30 the next morning; he was going 
to jump. All semesters pain, disappointment 
and finals over; the tension had built up in his 
stomach like a small hard ball of plutonium -- 
waiting. He had gone to bed in his new summer 
sublet above the pizza place with everything 
yet to be unpacked. It was so hot and loud; the 
cars were roaring in the street and squealing 
around the corner. Having finally fallen asleep 
sprawled on the mattress, sheets flung away - 
the screaming siren and the sound of flung 
steel submitting to inert mass. He looked out 
of the window and his first sight was some 
people he knew standing in the streetlight 
below. They had just come out of Antoninos 
and were looking down the street, standing. 
It was after one.
Apparently a man had stolen the black 
Porsche and had lost control attempting to 
take the corner as the police were in pursuit. 
He got out of the car and ran a couple of 
blocks before he was, apparently, caught. He 
had lost control. There was a web of cracks 
where his head had hit the windshield and the 
engines fluids continued to ooze. And there 
Mike, lamenting upon the decadence of
a world in which automatic transmissions were 
installed in black Porsches. And the big angry 
police dog incessantly barking from its cage in 
the van under the slowly revolving red light of 
the siren.
At 5:15 it was cool and sweet, the sun had 
not yet risen, and a full orange Pittsburgh 
moon hung in the western end of the hazy 
indigo sky. Only an occasional PAT bus cut 
through the quiet of the still air, raging furi
ously as it rolled slowly up Forbes Avenue. He 
stood and enjoyed the prolonged moment until 
the arrival of the first car and Denny under a 
battered white cowboy hat.
Eventually, everyone who was going to jump 
had arrived, except Mike and T. Off to their 
dorm with Bob, it was 6:00. Knocking, then 
pounding at the door, there was no reaction. 
A credit card slipped into the jamb, and it was 
across the room and into the bedroom to shake 
them awake.
"T.! T.! Get up!
"Whats wrong!?!
"Its six oclock!
Grabbing at his alarm clock, getting up and 
stumbling around.
"Mike! Get up!
"Wha?
"Get up! Its six oclock! 
Hurry and shuffle, finding clothes, in and out 
of the bathroom, down the metal stairs, across 
the dewy grass and Forbes to the Skibo parking 
lot.
One of the cars had broken down and they 
would have to take the Volkswagen. Every
body worrying about how late it was and 
would we get there in time its outside of
L/
G
Cleveland and we have to register at eight. 
Eight.
Out of Pennsylvania, and onto the Ohio turn
pike, flat and dull following behind the Volks-1 
wagen even going its fastest. Intermittent 
sleeping and the songs on the radio catching 
up to the car from Pittsburgh. Off the turn
pike to take a highway through a small white 
hometown, and suddenly onto a dirt road. 
Worry, the dashboard clock showing 8:30. 
Along the rocky and potholed dirt road tedi-1 
ously, tiresome and late. Suddenly, a form ris
ing over the green horizon and next to it, a! 
metal hangar. The big plane looming in the| 
countryside surrounding.
The land below was green-gray and small, 
not real, but a hazy mirage. Forests and 
houses and roads seen only in plan. The 
little plane was real, its rattling sheet metal 
sides, the wind rushing through, the back 
of the pilots head, the four people crouching 
hands protecting the shiny metal handles of 
their safety chutes. The pain in his ankle was 
real. All morning training for this jump. Learn
ing to fall, jumping off platforms, what do you 
do if your chute doesnt open? Not like Pan
ther Hollow, just over the bridge failing and 
down you go. No. You want to eJtcyc1n He had 
hurt his ankle jumping backwards out of the 
little plywood plane in the basement, it was 
hardly noticeable at first. But by the time he 
went out to the hangar, it was throbbing. He 
didnt want anyone to notice, or they might 
not let him jump. After training all morning. 
So when he went out to the fuel tanks to wait, 
he walked slowly, tryinq not to limp. He was 
glad for the heavy pack on his back, the bulk;

---------------------------------------------------

13.
coveralls, the old boots, they made it seem 
natural to walk slowly, carefully. The ankle 
was hurting very badly now. Crouching in the 
back of the plane it was hard to rest the ankle 
in a comfortable position. But the pain kept 
his mind off the jump. The plane circled, and 
clouds on the horizon seemed to pivot around 
him, and the air was grey and misty. Cool and 
sweet.
The pilot called the first person forward, and 
he watched as they went through the ritual 
practiced over and over again in the plywood 
plane in the basement.
"Static line O.K.?
"Static line hooked."
A few moments, then:
"Open the door."
Some fumbling with the latch, then the door 
flung open and the wind was rushing in. 
"Position."
He was surprised that there was no hesitation.
Just step out on the little plate hold on to the 
strut. The pilot slapped his thigh and the first 
one was gone. The plane turned, and he was 
almost looking straight down at the distant 
ground. His ankle hurt. Then eventually: 
"Next.
He moved forward and the pilot took his 
static line. A pause, then:
"Static line O.K.?"
"Static line hooked."
You could see the ground through the gap 
between the door and its frame.
Open the door."
A moment of hesitation, then he turned the 
latch, pushed the door against the wind, 
which then grabbed it and flung it up against 
the wing.
Position."
It wasnt hard. He stepped out into the wind, 
the ground was far away, like a distant sea, 
like a movie. The semester began to seem far
away. It will all be over soon. A slap on his 
thigh; he just let go. Three seconds of freefall, 
falling, falling fast. It was all over. If the chutedidnt open, he didnt care, just falling. He 
hadnt counted to three, onethousandone, 
onethousandtwo, onethousandthree, he had 
just fallen, feeling something indescribable. No 
fear, no tension, no excitement, just awe. A 
complete letting go. Awe. But when he rea
lized three seconds must have passed and look
ed up to check his chute, and it was open, he 
was glad. Not relieved, just glad. He said softly 
to himself the words he had learned in training: 
Check canopv."
When he landed, he could limp and moan to his 
heart's content. Nobody would believe him if 
he said he had hurt his ankle in training. No 
matter. His ankle didnt hurt now. And the 
man with the megaphone guided him as he 
steered with his toggles, falling slowly, softly 
through the cool hazy air, falling, slowly fall
ing.
Were 10 Years Old and Were Celebrating
HAPPY BIRTHDAY AB!
Thursday, November 15The American Friend DH 6, 8:15; 10:30
Friday, November 16 Watership Down DH 2210 6, 8, 10, 12
Sea Level; Nancy Parker Concert 8pm Skibo BR 
Tickets on sale Skibo Information Desk
Saturday, November 17 " Count Back 10"  Dance To the Top 
Hits of the past 10 years 9pm Skibo BR
Sunday, November 18 The Wizard of Oz DH 2210 2:30 Free
SS 1c1vxe sJvh1h lo exJh1vx 
kxycyxy1e 211

---------------------------------------------------

.. continued...on this Page
Zimbabwe
kHvxyvJ1h stH) uDB1 3
cognize the Muzorewa government, Nigeria 
may cut off U.S. oil supplies. Now that a new 
civilian government has been installed in 
Nigeria which identifies less with the Patriotic
Front, these fears have slightly subsided. It 
appears that conservative senator Jesse Helms 
of North Carolina and various Rhodesian 
lobbyist groups have persuaded the majority of
Congress to favor U.S. recognition of the 
Muzorewa government. Either way, Carter 
must make a decision on the Rhodesian issue 
by November 15th.
The presence of American mercenary sol
diers in Zimbabwe Rhodesia provided an inter
esting twist to the issue. As of February of this 
year there were over 1000 American mercenary 
soldiers fighting for the Rhodesian government. 
According to FHJx:1tv stykD magazine, over 
300 of these soldiers were sponsered by a 
Chicagobased church which sent the soldeirs 
to protect missionaries. Another magazine, 
FHShy1te Hs 2HtxJv1A D glossy bi-monthly, runs
advertisements and regular feature stories 
about U.S. mercenary soldiers in Rhodesia. The 
magazine has reputedly served as major recruit
ment vehicle for mercenary operations. 
According to Patriotic Front sources, many 
Americans in Rhodesia have been operating as 
pilots for the Rhodesian forces. It is also 
reported by FHJx:1tv stykD that Robin 
Moore, American author of T:1 Gt11v d1t1xe 
Dvh T:1 2t1vk: LHvv1kxyHv, has a mansion in 
Salisbury that serves as a social and political 
center for American and other foreign 
mercenaries serving in Rhodesia.
Because of CMUs direct involvement in the 
crisis confronting Zimbabwe, Rhodesia the pre
sent conditions and the future hopes for this 
country should have special significance on this 
campus. While this schools administration 
may now have its head above water, the 
problems in Zimbabwe appear only to be get
ting worse.
REFLECTIONS
kHvxyvJ1h stH) page 6
of the tombstones read Died 1945 Ausch
witz. And the Anne Frank House  a 
constant reminder of how seven people lived 
like caged animals in order to avoid death at 
the hands of the Nazis.
The beauty and the hate were all around. I 
needed a trip to a foreign continent to see this 
bizarre combination; but these things exist here 
at home. It is important for us to see that 
America is no different. We are people like the 
rest of the world. We are not above the hatred 
and prejudice that occurs everywhere else. 
The McCarthy era, the Ku Klux Klan and the 
Nazi march in Skokie, Illinois are all evidence 
of this. If we are aware of this maybe we can 
see to it that there never is another holocaust n'
THANKSGIVING DINNER 
at a special price 
monday, 
november 19 
kiltie cafe' 
dinners
unlimited
university food service

---------------------------------------------------

DETAILS15.
Whats New in Shadyside 
by Lisa Amowitz and Louise Molnar
|Tropical Shadyside
Further down Walnut Street (at Maryland
I Ave.) beyond Shadysides village proper, 
a person might walk right by The Tropical 
Touch, but just past the doorway, wooden 
figurines of lions and giraffes snare your 
attention. So you can back up a couple steps, 
peer in and discover a small paradise of hand
crafted delight. Inside you feel you've stepped 
into the private warehouse of Henri Rosseau: 
from high on the walls jaguars peer down from 
painted Rosseau-ian jungles and from inside 
a wrought-iron cage a green parrot makes 
strange sounds until you figure out where he 
is. Here too everything is hand-made: handpainted, hand-woven, hand-crocheted, handwroughtby Haitiansand hand-picked by the 
two owners of the shop during their excur 
sions to Haiti.
Some of the goods are made under the 
auspices of CARE or of the Albert Schweitzer 
Hospital (run by the Mellons). These include 
pillowcases and white fish-shaped ceramic 
dishes in three sizes to be used in the oven 
There are items that are genuinely exquisite, 
such as the silky smooth mahogany dishes and 
the polished boxes and haircombs of bull's 
horn. Like the birdcages, the hand wrought 
iron table and chairs were made without 
nails and look perfectly, tropically classical. 
Other items are more primitively charming, 
such as the bright paintings and the two 
faced woven dolls. -
Prices here are quite reasonable. The 
bulls horn bracelets cost $8 and $3 respective 
to size. The wonderful woven spreads, rugs 
and hammocks of heavy cotton are attractive 
and durable, come in various sizes, and would 
seem to be multi-purpose. A 3' x 5' throw 
seems worth the $75 tag. The Tropical Touch 
is a very likely place to investigate for unusua] 
gifts and furnishings, small to large, nothing is 
mundane. Even if you're just out for a walk
The Vamp. Shady Ave. Shadyside near E. 
Liberty
On the far edge of Shadyside awaits a tempting 
collection of antique clothing, put together for 
the sheer purpose of adding some spice to your 
wardrobe.
Clothes make a statement about the person 
who wears them and if you want to let the 
world know that you aren't to be mistaken for 
anyone else, the Vamp is the place to check 
out.
The prices are less expensive than retail 
stores and the quality of the old clothing is
infinitely superior to most department store 
clothing. Youll find that a lot of the styles 
of dresses and skirts will suit your taste and 
will probably remind you of some of the latest 
styles on the racks now.
Besides everyday wear you can also find 
some outrageous numbers for whatever biz
arre occasion may arise.
For the best of the past and a fun experi
ence pay a visit to the Vamp.
Ways and Means. Walnut Street, Shadyside
A mammoth new shop has opened in Shady
side. Inside it's airy expanse is a vast array of 
household items, stacked neatly and alluringly| 
on looming industrial racks.
Here you can find all that you ever wanted,! 
needed or didnt even know existed. The most 
distinctive thing about the place, aside from 
its decor, is the stylishness of tis wares.I
Utilitarian items are transformed into color-1 
ful little oddities one would be inclined to dis-| 
play. Paperclips, hat racks, and eggbeaters] 
become works of art in addition to being func
tional objects.
You can convert you environment into a] 
colorful, elegant world simply by replacing all] 
the hardware you won with hardware froi 
Ways and Means.
Much More than Simply Ethnic
Here can be found the quintessential peas
ant blouses hand-embroidered in the brightest 
threads. Here are lush warm hand-woven 
woolen sweaters and coats. Here are patch
work vests with the patches made of brocade, 
velvet, and other surprisingly fine materials. 
Here are elegant contemporary evening dresses 
displaying the age-old beauty of hand-painted 
silk. Wooden beads, woven belts, bracelets 
finished with reptile skin are among the accesories offered here. We were at Vlatka the 
week before Halloween and tried on the 
full Tenth black velvet, white silk-lined cape... 
ah, the enchantment of Eastern European 
villages and the Carpathian Mountains!
Vlatka Zconc, proprietress and Belgradeborn Yugoslavian is active in the Pittsburgh 
area keeping the heritage strong and vital. 
Pittsburgh is home of the largest Slavic fra
ternal organization and recently, this October, 
became the sister city of Zagreb, capital of 
Croatia. Among various other activities Ms. 
Zconc broadcasts a Yugoslav radio program on 
WPIT(IOIFM) every Sunday afternoon at 2. 
Over a year ago she opened her boutique, 
Vlatka, at 5417 Walnut Street with intent to 
bring the beauty of traditional Slavic handcra^ts to Pittsburgh and into new, exciting 
fashion. The prices are not cheap but they 
reflect the quality of the materials and work
manship as well as the exclusiveness: all mer
chandise is made especially for the shop. 
Vlatka Zconc is even prouder of the fact 
that everything in her shop is authentic slavic 
work, touched by Yugoslavian hands and 
that nothing in the shop is touched by ma
chines. Investigate this shop especialy if you 
have an interest in fabric, clothing, or your 
Slavic heritage.
>

---------------------------------------------------

I Marys9 Kitchen
We offer catering that will add joy and ease to your Christmas and New Year gatherings.
b Y Wr FGGrFTN
*A HOT BUFFET (FEATURING VARIOUS HOT DELICACIES LIKE ROAST 
BEEF; CREPES, AND QUICHE)
* A COLD BUFFET (FEATURING FRESHLY BAKED HAM, ROAST BEEF,
DELICIOUS JELLO SALADS, AND MORE)
* A GENEROUS COMBINA TION OF HOT AND COLD
* CHEESE TRA VS WITH /I TASTE OF ELEGANCE
* HORS D' OEUI/RES FOR ALL OCCASSIONS
* OR YOUR OWN SUGGESTIONS
MAKE THESE HOLIDAYS THE BEST. CALL US TODAY!
788-4685
ssy
WANTS TO HELP YOU !
