Carnegie Mellons student newspaper since 1906
SCITECH
Summer 2013 album reviews  B4
PILLBOXFORUM
Move to Google Apps needs to be more publicized  A6Scientists take on Internet privacy policy  A4
BRENT HEARD
Staffwriter
Carnegie Mellons division of Environmental Health 
and Safety released a CMU 
Alert iPhone application last 
Tuesday in order to provide 
students with accessible information and resources during 
emergency situations. CMU 
Alert is available through the 
iTunes store and can be found, 
with descriptions of its features, at cmu.edu/alert.
Separate from the existing 
CMU Alert system that operates by email and phone, the 
app provides immediate information on what to do in 
various emergency situations 
and how to prevent crimes, 
[as well as] interactive maps 
with information on Automatic External De?brillators 
(AED) locations and campus 
bus routes, according to the 
apps description on iTunes.
Details covered by the app 
include safety information on 
bomb threats, mental health 
emergencies, shooters, and 
medical emergencies. The app 
also contains contact information and automatic dialing for 
Carnegie Mellon University 
Police and emergency personnel, as well  as maps showing 
the locations of AEDs.
Carnegie Mellon University Police Lieutenant Gary 
Scheimer said that the application was the brainchild of 
Madelyn Miller, the director 
of Environmental Health and 
Safety.
[Miller] came to us with 
the topics relevant to CMU 
police and we contributed [to 
the project], Scheimer said. 
It wasnt an easy task to bring 
this about.
Weve been working on 
the app for over a year, and 
were thrilled to have it out, 
Miller said.
Miller emphasized that 
CMU Alert is completely separate from the existing CMU 
Alert network. This app is 
for what to do in the ?rst 10 
minutes of an emergency, she 
said.
The issues we focused on 
were scenarios with required 
immediate action, such as an 
active shooter or chemical 
hazard, Scheimer said. 
Miller added that Environmental Health and Safety 
is waiting to hear student 
feedback on the application, 
and the division is currently 
developing a version for Android phones. The iPhone 
version was created by the 
mobile application developer 
DoodleBlue, which released 
a statement about CMU Alert 
that said, Student safety is 
the top most important priority of schools and colleges. 
Its important for students to 
be alarmed and be informed, 
especially in times like these 
when crime rates have shot up 
like nothing seen before.
The naming of the application confused some students 
as to whether the application 
was separate from the existing 
CMU Alert system.
I think the name of the 
app may be misleading, said 
junior business major Grace 
Pan. While this is all inforthetartan.org
@thetartan
August 26, 2013
Volume 108, Issue 2
Suresh warns of innovation de?cit
iTunes app available for CMU alerts
Small gives thoughts on environmental impact of fracking
This app is for what to do in the 
?rst 10 minutes of an emergency.
Madelyn Miller
Director of Environmental Health and Safety
BRIAN TRIMBOLI 
Assistant News Editor
NOL UM
News Editor
Last week, President Subra Suresh joined more than 
185 university leaders in 
signing a letter urging President Obama and Congress 
to restore federal funding 
for research and educational 
purposes.
The effort, which was also 
supported by the Association of American Universities 
(AAU) and the Association of 
Public and Land-grant Universities (APLU), urges the 
government to close the innovation de?cit.
According to the open letter, which is available to read 
at innovationde?cit.org, university leaders from schools 
including Cornell University, 
Brown University, Boston 
University, Tulane University, University of California 
Los Angeles, Case Western 
Reserve University, Yale University, and Washington University in St. Louis signed the 
document.
University leaders as well 
as the AAU and APLU are 
concerned about cuts to federal investments in research 
and higher education at a 
time when other nations are 
pouring resources into these 
areas. According to the Innovation De?cit website, These 
leaders believe the nation 
needs sustained investments 
in research and higher education to develop the ideas, 
people, and innovations that 
power the nations economy ... ensuring that the U.S. 
maintains its role as global 
leader. They also believe that 
the growth supported by innovation will help the nation 
address its ?scal challenges. 
The letter, addressed to 
President Obama and members of the 113th Congress, 
opens by saying that our nations role as the worlds innovation leader is in serious 
jeopardy [because of] eroding federal investments in research and higher education 
[and] additional cuts due to 
sequestration.
According to the letter, 
the United States lack of investment in research coupled 
with the enormous resources 
other nations are putting into 
these areas has created a socalled innovation de?cit.
Ignoring this de?cit, the 
letter says, will have many 
long-term consequences, including a less skilled work 
force; fewer research breakthroughs in science and technology based in the U.S.; 
fewer U.S. patents; and fewer 
startups, products, and jobs. 
While the letter acknowledges that solutions to many 
of the major governmental issues in the United States are 
unclear, it is clear that the 
nations ?scal woes must include sustained strategic federal investments in research 
and student ?nancial aid.
It ends with a call to action, asking the president and 
Congress to reject unsound 
budget cuts and recommit 
to strong and sustained investments in research and 
education.
Anthony Rollett, professor 
of materials science and engineering, both critiqued and 
praised the letter.
I de?nitely think that its 
a good, well-written letter 
and that it is important for 
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Assistant News Editor
Mitchell Small, H. John 
Heinz professor of civil and 
environmental engineering, 
weighed in on the controversial issue of fracking in a webinar for weekly magazine 
Engineering-News Record last 
Wednesday.
The webinar, Oil and Gas 
Production from Shale, Opportunities & Risks, focused 
on the challenges and opportunities presented by the relatively new process of natural 
gas extraction from shale.
According to the webinars 
description, The discovery of 
vast reserves of natural gas embedded in shale plays across 
the nation has both transformed the energy debate in 
the United States and created 
enormous controversy.
The process of extracting natural gas from shale, 
known as hydraulic fracturing 
or fracking, raised concerns 
in environmental, social, and 
economic domains. Fracking 
also presents many opportunities for growth in domestic 
energy production through 
the extraction of previously 
unreachable natural gas deposits.
The description for the 
webinar explains, Although 
the oil and gas reserves in the 
shale formations represent 
huge potential to provide a 
home-grown source of energy, as well as a wide array 
of construction, engineering 
and production jobs, those 
who work in the industry bear 
great responsibility to ensure 
that drilling, extraction, and 
production of natural gas and 
oil are done without causing 
harm to participants or to the 
environment, particularly the 
water supply and air quality.
Pam Hunter, associate editor of Engineering News-Record 
for Environmental Issues and 
moderator of the webinar, 
said, The discovery of large 
oil and natural gas reserves in 
the United States has changed 
and transformed the nations 
energy landscape. The opportunities for economic growth 
and stability are enormous, 
but with the potential of some 
environmental risks if the 
proper precautions are not 
taken.
Small, who chairs the National Research Council (NRC) 
panel studying risk management and governance issues 
in shale gas extraction, summarized the panels discussions on shale gas extraction 
and highlighted the potential 
risks and bene?ts of the process. Smalls research at Carnegie Mellon, according to the 
webinar description, spans 
mathematical modeling and 
monitoring of environmental systems, uncertainty, and 
risks.
Small speci?cally pointed 
out seven potential problems 
with fracking, including operational risks, degradation 
of water and air quality, global 
climate change, ecological impacts, human health impacts, 
and social impacts. He cited 
projections from the U.S. Energy Information Administration that predicted a large increase in the use of natural gas 
driven by shale extraction over 
the next 25 to 30 years, while 
other methods of obtaining 
natural gas will stay level or 
even decline. Small discussed 
the impact that cheaper, more 
available energy could have in 
the United States.
His focus was also on frackings environmental impacts, 
including on water quality and 
air quality. 
The fracking process can 
also create methane leakages, 
which contribute to global climate change.
Fracking presents many 
governance issues. According to Small, the industry 
lacks federal oversight, leaving much of the control in the 
hands of state and local governments. This has important 
implications for how the process will affect nearby communities, economically and 
socially.
The oil and gas industry 
is largely exempt from federal 
environmental regulation. 
Most of the action is at the 
state level, and the question is, 
how do you have effective coordination between state and 
local governance, as well as 
industry self-governance, and 
what role do local communities, environmental groups, 
See RESEARCH, A3
See SAFETY, A3
See FRACKING, A3
Annette Ko/Art Editor
Photo illustration by Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

A2  thetartan.org/news The Tartan  August 26, 2013
Corrections & Clari?cations
If you would like to submit a correction or clari?cation, please email The 
Tartan at news@thetartan.org or editor@thetartan.org with your inquiry, 
as well as the date of the issue and the name of the article. We will print 
the correction or clari?cation in the next print issue and publish it online.
NEWS IN BRIEFLate Night begins semester with bingo
WEATHER
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor
Carnegie Mellons Greek organizations hosted a barbecue on the Greek Quadrangle Sunday afternoon. The barbecue was designed as an introduction to campus Greek life for ?rst-year students and others interested in joining a fraternity or sorority.  
Source: www.weather.com
FEATURE PHOTO
Carnegie Mellon Universitys Open Field Entrepreneurs Fund (OFEF), administered by the Carnegie Mellon 
University Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship, 
awarded $250,000 to ?ve 
startup companies. 
The fund was established 
by alumnus and creator of 
the Flip Video camera Jonathan Kaplan and his wife, 
Marci Glazer.
The OFEF is designed to 
provide early-stage ?nancing 
and support to Carnegie Mellon alumni looking to start 
their own companies. Twenty-one startups have been 
given grants from the fund 
since its June 2012 inception.
Carnegie Mellon is truly 
an engine of innovation. 
This cycle of OFEF includes 
three companies that arose 
from faculty and Ph.D. candidate research, said David 
Mawhinney, co-director of 
the Carnegie Mellon Center 
for Innovation and Entrepreneurship and managing 
director of the OFEF, in a university press release.
In addition to our outstanding curriculum and 
world-class research, the 
continued involvement of 
our alumni network is something that we are most proud 
of  people like Jonathan 
Kaplan, whose generosity and commitment toward 
helping the next generation 
of entrepreneurs has made 
the OFEF possible, she said.
In the past 15 years, over 
300 companies and 9,000 
jobs have resulted from Carnegie Mellons entrepreneurial 
campus culture. The companies receiving funds this 
year are Lumator; NetBeez; 
QuantMD, LLC; ToolsCloud; 
and Vibrados. It is exciting 
to see our young alumni creating such interesting companies, said Lenore Blum, 
co-director of the Center for 
Innovation and Entrepreneurship.
These companies are 
based on years of cuttingedge research and bring realworld solutions to everyday 
problems and challenges.
The OFEF provides 
$50,000 in matching investment to each recipient. Recipients also gain access to 
other funding sources, receive personalized mentoring, and attend an annual 
OFEF business workshop.
Mentors assigned to each 
recipient will include select 
Carnegie Mellon alumni who 
have themselves been successful entrepreneurs, having 
helped to create over $1 billion in shareholder value.
Mentors will also include entrepreneurs based 
at Carnegie Mellon, such as 
Mawhinney.
CMUs OFEF funds ?ve startup companies
CMU researcher wins engineering prize
Kaushik Dayal, an associate professor in the mechanics group of Carnegie Mellons civil and environmental 
engineering department, 
recently won the Leonardo 
Da Vinci Award from the 
American Society of Civil 
Engineers.
Dayal received the award 
for his research on the interactions between materials 
and electromagnetism that 
has potential applications 
for energy storage and generation.
Im delighted to receive 
this recognition of our research into the behavior of 
electromechanical and electrochemical materials at the 
nanoscale, Dayal said in a 
university press release.
Dayal is looking to create 
smaller batteries with higher 
energy density and faster recharge times than those currently on the market.
Dayals research focuses 
on energy storage, which 
could have important applications for intermittent power sources like solar energy, 
which is produced during 
the day but not at nighttime.
Dayals research is funded 
by the Army Research Of?ce, 
the Air Force Of?ce of Scienti?c Research, and the National Science Foundation.
This is great recognition 
for an innovative researcher 
who is making important 
contributions to [the] modeling of materials critical to 
renewable energy systems 
and other technologies, David A. Dzombak, head of the 
department of civil and environmental engineering, said 
in a university press release.
The Leonardo Da Vinci 
award was established in 
2011 and recognizes young 
researchers early in their 
careers for promising developments within the ?eld of 
engineering mechanics and 
mechanical sciences with 
speci?c relevance to civil engineering.
In 2012, Dayal received 
the Army Research Of?ce 
Young Investigator Award, 
the Air Force Of?ce of Scienti?c Research Young Investigator Prize, the National 
Science Foundation Career 
Award, and the Eshelby Mechanics Award for Young 
Faculty.
FRIDAY
High / Low
82 / 63
SATURDAY
High / Low
81 / 65
TUESDAY
High / Low
82 / 71
WEDNESDAY
High / Low
81 / 68
THURSDAY
High / Low
83 / 65
Compiled by
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
ALL CREDIT CARDS ACCEPTED 
Call DAVE  1-800-432-7199
CMU Vendor
Apple iPad2 32GB Refurbished
90 day warranty (thru Brothers Lazer)
Other Tablets available...
Call for pricing
CMU DEAL OF THE MONTH
$399  
Delivered 
+ PA SALES TAX
Jonathan Carreon/Contributing Editor
The ?rst Late Night event of the year was bingo in the University Center Kirr Commons. Prizes included apparel and other gifts from the Carnegie 
Mellon bookstore. 
Greek organizations host social barbecue

---------------------------------------------------

August 26, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/news  A3
music.cmu.edu
CARNEGIE 
MELLON
SCHOOL 
OF MUSIC
  201314 CONCERT SERIES
CMU students, faculty, and staff admitted 
free to all School of Music events by 
presenting a CMU ID at the door.
Sunday, September 15, 8pm
Carnegie Music Hall, Oakland
CMU Philharmonic  
Andrs Crdenes, Artistic Director
Mimi Jung, violin
et cetera play in the overall 
process? Small asked.
Fracking also carries possible bene?ts. 
It has a smaller carbon 
footprint than traditional 
coal, meaning that substituting natural gas from shale 
extraction for coal produces 
fewer greenhouse gas emissions. Small also summarized 
his personal viewpoints in 
two workshops hosted by the 
NRC panel. 
The ?rst panel was on 
the risks of unconventional 
shale gas development, while 
the second focused on governance risks of unconventional shale development, or 
the regulation issues created 
by shale development and its 
current lack of oversight.
Small stressed that the 
committees were not meant 
to reach an absolute consensus, and that they comprise 
members separate opinions.
On his slide about the ?rst 
workshop, Small wrote that 
to build [a] scienti?c knowledge base and trust, [there is 
a] need for coordinated collection and sharing of data to 
characterize background predevelopment conditions, operations, human and ecological exposures and effects, and 
economic and social impacts 
on nearby communities.
The second workshop, 
Small said, included discussions of the existing capacity to meet governance challenges, shale gas governance 
in other federal systems, and 
the potential roles of non governmental entities in fracking 
governance.
After Small, the webinar 
included talks from Andy 
Shea, industrial sector director of the Resources Business 
Group, and Sunil Kommineni, 
national practice leader in 
water treatment at water and 
infrastructure consulting and 
management company ARCADIS. 
The event was sponsored 
by United Rentals.
the academic community to 
speak up.  I also agree with 
the general idea that the real 
damage is to long-term competitiveness.  For example, 
we are leaders in large machines like accelerators, synchrotrons and free electron 
lasers (that have very large 
populations of users) but this 
wont last without continuing 
investment, said Rollett via 
email.
Rollett also said that he 
wish[ed] the letter had put 
more emphasis on the cuts restricting the pipeline of highly 
trained people.
Sophomore creative writing major Kaytie Nielson 
believes that further government-funded research could 
have both positive and negative repercussions. 
Nielson, who is a Fulbright 
Summer Institute Participant, 
said, More funding for research would be great. But 
like with corporate funding 
of university research, dependence upon government funding might cause the research 
to respond to particular politically motivated interests.
mation that can be found on 
CMU websites, it is helpful 
that it is in a centralized location and it is more accessible.
Further student reaction 
to the development of the 
new application is mixed but 
hopeful.
Sophomore economics 
and math double major Ben 
Zhang likes the idea of the 
safety application, but said he 
could envision future problems with it. I just see two 
main issues with it: getting 
people to install the app and 
getting people to not delete 
the app, he said.
I feel like it would be useful, but Im kind of the person 
that says, Well, I wont using 
it frequently, and Im going to 
assume the advice they give is 
pretty much common sense  
Zhang added.
Junior computer science 
major Mindy Pile said, It 
sounds like a pretty great 
idea, especially since most 
people dont know how to 
handle certain natural disasters or deal with in an emergency medical situation.
Pile did mention some possible improvements. How 
useful it is also depends on 
how easy it is to navigate. 
Having the emergency numbers and CMU police numbers 
listed front and center would 
be a good thing.
Environmental Health and 
Safety personnel are asking 
students to continue providing feedback on the application and its features.
ALVIN MATHEW 
Staffwriter
A movement started in 
recent years to digitize documents from the past in order 
to preserve an areas history. 
Lending its efforts to secure 
local history, Carnegie Mellon 
contributed to the digitizing of 
Jewish newspapers through 
the Pittsburgh Jewish Newspaper Project. The project contains a digital archive of various Jewish newspapers in the 
Pittsburgh area, some dating 
to more than 100 years ago.
The of?cial website of the 
Pittsburgh Jewish Newspaper 
Project explains that the archive contains various Jewish 
publications, including the 
Jewish Criterion, the American Jewish Outlook, the Jewish 
Chronicle, and a weekly publication by the Young Men and 
Womens Hebrew Association 
of Pittsburgh. 
Head of archives and digital library initiatives Gabrielle 
Michalek spearheaded the sixyear long project. 
According to an article 
in the Jewish Chronicle, the 
Pittsburgh Jewish Newspaper 
Project is a digital archive 
documenting daily life in the 
Pittsburgh Jewish community 
from 1895 to the present.
Joy Braunstein, director of 
the Holocaust Center of the 
Jewish Federation of Greater 
Pittsburgh, said, I think its 
phenomenal, and Im glad 
that someone is taking the initiative to do this. I think it will 
be an interesting and valuable 
resource, from the academic 
perspective ... to laypeople or 
individuals who want to look 
at the history.
I know that theyre doing this as a digital resource, 
which is fantastic so that people can go online and look at 
it, and Im incredibly supportive. If you are a graduate student, you would ?nd this to be 
absolutely invaluable. Same 
for someone doing their own 
genealogy, by looking at their 
familys history and people 
searching for their familys 
wedding dates, Braunstein 
added.
According to its website, 
the Pittsburgh Jewish Newspaper Project is a collaboration between Carnegie Mellon University Libraries, the 
Rodef Shalom Congregation 
Archives, the Rauh Jewish 
Archives at the Senator John 
Heinz History Center, and the 
Jewish Chronicle of Pittsburgh.
The Jewish newspapers in 
Pittsburgh cover not just local 
events but regional, national 
and international news over 
a long period of time, Rodef 
Shalom archivist Martha Berg 
said in an interview with the 
Jewish Chronicle. 
They really give a wonderful depiction over time of 
a community as it grew and 
changed, and theyre very 
valuable to have.
The project was aided by 
contributions from the Jewish Federation of Greater 
Pittsburgh, the Philip Chosky 
Charitable Educational Foundation, and donations to Carnegie Mellon in memory of 
Henry Posner Jr.
CMU helps digitize Pittsburgh Jewish newspaper archives
CMU Alert app provides easy safety emergency information
SAFETY, from A1
Research seeks federal funding
RESEARCH, from A1
Talk illuminates fracking risks
FRACKING, from A1
Photo illustration by Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

A4  thetartan.org/scitech The Tartan  August 26, 2013
HOW THINGS WORKHow preservation keeps your food bacteria-free
NIHARIKA SINGH
Staffwriter
Incoming ?rst-years always recieve a ton of advice: 
go to of?ce hours, make new 
friends, try out new restaurants. Among these pieces 
of advice is one that warns 
students that hot plates and 
other similar cooking appliances are not allowed in dorm 
rooms; theyre ?re hazards. 
Stripped of these cooking appliances, many students turn 
to preserved foods in their 
quest for a rejuvenating midnight snack. Humans have 
been preserving food for hundreds of years to ensure they 
would have stores of food in 
tough conditions like famines 
(and ?nals week).
The purpose of food preservation is to ensure that 
bacteria do not reproduce. 
When bacteria multiply in 
food, they release waste that 
causes the food to look, smell, 
feel and taste bad. Certain 
pathogens can also cause the 
spoiled food to become toxic. 
According to Arimi Foods, the 
same bacteria that cause food 
to spoil also thrive in warm 
temperatures in the range of 
room temperature to 104F. 
This is why one of the most 
common methods of preserving foods is refrigeration. The 
cold temperatures present 
inside a fridge slow down the 
reproduction of bacteria. Kept 
this way, most foods tend to 
last for about a week.
However, temperature can 
be lowered further to keep 
food safe for longer. The freezer, which uses below-freezing 
temperatures to store food, 
keeping it fresh for months. 
Since water is no longer available to the bacteria, they 
are not able to grow or react 
chemically with foods.
Canning is another way 
to preserve foods. This can 
take take the form of produce 
canned at home, or factory 
canned food available in supermarkets. In both cases, the 
food is heated to kill bacteria 
present at the beginning of 
the canning process. Afterwards, the food is put into an 
airtight container and sealed, 
preventing new bacteria from 
entering the food. Foods preserved this way can keep for 
several months. 
Canning also has the additional advantage of not requiring the energy needed to 
maintain a low temperature 
continuously, like in refrigeration and freezing. For this 
reason, canned foods are popular in disaster-relief kits and 
emergency kits, as they can 
keep for a long time and be 
consumed in situations where 
power is not readily available.
Yet another popular food 
preservation technique is 
drying. This technique works 
because drying food removes 
all moisture, which bacteria 
need to grow and react with 
foods. An advantage to drying 
is that dried foods take  up less 
space to store than food preserved by other means, says 
the College of Agriculture, 
Consumer, and Environmental Sciences at the University 
of Illinois. However, drying 
changes the taste and appearance of foods unlike other 
forms of food preservation. 
To dry food, www.dryit.com 
explains, it is placed where 
warm dry air can move past 
it continuously. This warm 
air absorbs the moisture from 
the food and carries it away, 
thus dehydrating the food. 
Dried foods are often further 
vacuum sealed to keep them 
safe for longer. According to 
fantes.com, vacuum sealing 
ensures that the foods dont 
come into contact with oxygen. Without oxygen, oxidation of the food cannot take 
place. Furthermore, bacteria 
cannot thrive in a vacuum.
Food is an essential human need, and human ingenuity lets people have food 
even when it is not readily 
available in its natural form. 
So while incoming freshmen 
might not be able to prepare 
their favorite meals in the 
comfort of their rooms, they 
will be able to snack on a variety of preserved foods. 
Or they could just order 
pizza.
Astronomers discover distant blue planet
A deep azure-blue planet 
has been discovered orbiting 
a star 63 light years away; this 
is the ?rst time astronomers 
have been able to determine 
the color of a planet outside 
our solar system. The feat was 
accomplished using Hubbles 
Space Telescope to measure 
how much light was re?ected 
off the surface of the planet 
before, during, and after it 
passed the star that it orbits. 
Other features of the planet include having a daytime 
temperature of 2,000F, wind 
gusts up to 4,500 mph, and 
raining liquid glass. It is also 
2.9 million miles away from 
its planet star  10 times closer than Mercury is to our sun. 
The planet is classi?ed as a 
hot Jupiter, a planet similar 
in size to a gas giant but close 
to its parent star.
Source: CNN  
Scientists produce edible meat from cow shoulder cells
The future of food has taken a new direction with the 
invention of lab-grown meat. 
Mark Post, a Dutch researcher 
from the University of Maastricht, has pioneered a way 
of growing meat using stem 
cells (cells that can differentiate into tissue-speci?c cells) 
from cow shoulder muscle. 
The cells were multiplied in 
a nutrient solution and put in 
petri dishes, where they grew 
into muscle cells and formed 
strips of muscle ?ber, a process which was developed 
through a $325,000 project.
A ?ve-ounce burger was 
made from 20,000 strips of 
?ber, breadcrumbs, salt, and 
some natural colorings. While 
the lab-grown burger received 
subpar ratings in its taste test, 
it has introduced the idea of 
cultured meat to the world. 
Source: The New York Times
Robot uses slime to express different set of emotions
Ella Gale, a researcher at 
the University of the West of 
England in Bristol and the 
Bristol Robotics Laboratory, 
has discovered a way of using slime mold to give emotions to robots faces. Slime 
mold, although unicellular, is 
able to ?nd the quickest path 
to food and has even shown 
signs of having memory. 
Gale has developed a way 
of expressing emotions on 
a human-like robot face by 
hooking up the robot face so 
that its expressions are controlled by electrical signals. 
These signals are produced 
when slime mold shies away 
from light or moves towards 
food. Because slime mold produces electrical signals as it 
moves across electrodes, Gale 
and her team were able to assign different emotions to different signals.
Source: New Scientist
Researchers look into evolution of the X chromosome
 The X chromosome has 
typically been considered the 
female chromosome, and 
the Y the male. This would 
suggest that since the second 
X chromosome in females is 
disabled, its evolution was 
slowed down and its genes 
would be similar in most 
mammals. 
However, recent studies 
show that it is not only the Y 
chromosome that contains 
the genes responsible for sex 
determination, male development, and male fertility. 
Rather, the X chromosome 
has been found to contain 
genes that are only active 
in tissue that is destined to 
become sperm. After sequencing human and mice X 
chromosomes, geneticists discovered that there are a lot of 
unshared genes between the 
human X and mouse X, indicating that the X chromosome 
may have undergone evolution.
Source: Wired
Live tissue and organs produced by 3-D printers
3-D printing has gained 
increasing popularity in the 
past few years, with 3-D printers for the home recently becoming feasible. However, 
the newest breakthrough in 
this form of manufacturing 
technology is the 3-D printing 
of live tissue. Researchers at 
Hangzhou Dianzi University 
in China have developed the 
Regenovo 3-D printer. 
Regenovo prints living 
tissue  in particular, it has 
successfully printed small 
human ears. Several months 
ago, a team at Cornell University were also successful 
in the 3-D printing of ears. 
At Organovo in San Diego, 
researchers are working on 
3-D printing of fresh human 
livers. The development of 
these kinds of technologies 
may revolutionize the world 
of biomedical engineering, 
facilitating surgeries such as 
organ transplants and making 
them more personalized.
Source: New Scientist
Dolphins respond to unique sounds of their own name
It is a well-known fact 
that dolphins communicate 
with each other with clicks 
and whistles. However, a new 
observation has been made: 
Dolphins actually respond selectively to signature whistles, 
the same way a human being 
would respond to someone 
calling their name. This ?nding is one of the ?rst examples 
of naming in mammals and 
suggests that there is a parallel between dolphin and human communication. 
Biologists recorded signature whistles and played 
them, along with computersynthesized distortions of 
them, through a hydrophone 
in Scotlands eastern coast. 
The wild bottlenose dolphins 
ignored unfamiliar whistles 
while whistling back to their 
own signature whistles.
Source: Science Daily
Compiled By
BROOKE KUEI
SCITECH BRIEFS
Researchers take on complicated privacy policies
BROOKE KUEI
Assistant SciTech Editor
How does Amazon know 
what deals will catch your interest? How does Facebook 
know what ads to show you? 
Most people are unaware of 
the fact that websites collect 
information about us all the 
time. A fundamental aspect 
of privacy is that people are 
supposed to have control over 
what happens to their information, said Norman Sadeh, 
a Carnegie Mellon professor 
of computer science. He is the 
leader of the Usable Privacy 
Policy Project, a 42-month, 
$3.75-million project sponsored by the National Science 
Foundation whose goal is to 
improve internet privacy.
The research team working 
on this project includes Lorrie Cranor, associate professor of computer science and 
engineering and public policy; 
Alessandro Acquisti, associate 
professor of information technology and public policy; Travis Breaux, assistant professor 
of computer science; Aleecia 
McDonald, director of privacy 
at Stanford Universitys Center 
for Internet and Society; and 
Joel Reidenberg, a Fordham 
University law professor.
Websites are supposed to 
inform users when they collect 
information. These privacy 
policies should answer consumer questions about how 
and for what purpose they 
collect user information, and 
with whom the information 
will be shared. Every major 
website should have a privacy 
policy that can be easily found 
there. 
But some question the accessibility of these policies. 
Its easily accessible if accessing means being able to get to 
the page, but its not easily accessible if access is supposed 
to also include the ability to 
quickly digest the text and 
make sense of it, said Sadeh. 
The problem is that many privacy policies are not only extremely lengthy  averaging 
?ve to seven pages in length 
 but also very complex and 
dif?cult for a layperson to understand. In fact, a 2008 study 
conducted by Cranor and McDonald estimated it would 
take 200 to 300 hours for a 
person to read privacy policies 
for every website they visited 
in a year. 
Another study conducted 
at Carnegie Mellon tested 
peoples comprehension of 
privacy policies. After reading 
a range of policies, individuals 
were asked very simple comprehension questions, such as 
if the website collects email 
addresses or shares information to third parties. Although 
these questions are supposed 
to be answered clearly in privacy policies, 50 percent of the 
people who read them could 
not answer these questions 
correctly.
In the past, some people 
have tried to force standardized formats, such as presenting policies in the form of multiple choice questions or yes/
no answers that could easy 
convey to their users what type 
of information the website collects. Another attempt was to 
encourage websites to write 
privacy policies in machinereadable language. However, 
these endeavors have been 
met with a lot of pushback 
from the companies who write 
these policies.
The Usable Privacy Policy 
Project team has been studying new methods of making 
privacy policies more transparent for consumers. One 
such method involves the 
modeling of peoples privacy 
preferences. Weve shown 
through research over the past 
few years that even though 
people care about privacy, 
they dont actually care about 
everything these privacy policies talk about. They only care 
about a relatively small number of factors, Sadeh said. So 
it turns out that there are just 
a few things in these policies 
that need to be highlighted in 
order to convey the information consumers care about 
most.
Another direction that this 
group is taking is combining machine learning with 
crowdsourcing. The machinelearning aspect involves using 
computer programs that can 
detect patterns of text within 
privacy policies in order to extract information from them. 
Along with the contributions 
from crowdworkers, machine 
learning can ensure that privacy policies will be understood 
on a large scale. This information can then be presented to 
consumers in the form of user 
interfaces or browser add-ons 
that can rate the safety of websites with color codes or letter 
grades  almost like a nutrition label.
Privacy engineering is becoming an increasingly important ?eld, particularly because 
people who write privacy policy tend to be lawyers, while 
people who build the products 
tend to be software engineers. 
Carnegie Mellon is launching 
a new masters degree program in privacy engineering.
The long-term hope is that 
when information becomes 
more easy to digest, companies will realize they have to 
be more aware of their privacy 
policies, Sadeh said. The researchers hope that, at some 
point, companies will even 
start competing with each 
other and using safer privacy 
policies to set them apart 
from other companies, ultimately improving privacy on 
the web.
Courtesy of Wikimedia Commons
A food dehydrator can be used to create dried foods, such as mangoes and papayas. 
Photo Illustration by Kelsey Scott/Operations Manager

---------------------------------------------------

August 26, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/scitech  A5
Shadyside
Carnegie Mellon
376
MarketDistrict.com
Shadyside
5550 Centre Avenue
Pittsburgh, PA 15232
412.681.1500=0+R0H=@hR@ +h=&D @D= D
?h@DHR ,=hD00Q:= ,@?a'0+h&
 71A and 71C PAT buses
 20A North Oakland Shuttle (Pitt)
 CMU Shuttle B (weekdays)  or AB (Weekends) 
Free with CMU ID
Shadyside Market District Bus Routes:
Scientists make discovery in ?eld of synthetic biology
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
When moving through a 
bustling crowd, you probably 
think about how much more 
ef?ciently you could get to 
your destination if you were 
the only one there. While this 
train of thought might make 
sense with regards to daily life, 
researchers at Carnegie Mellon have found that crowding 
within a cell may actually increase its ef?ciency.
The study was led by 
Cheemeng Tan, a Lane Postdoctoral Fellow and a Branco 
Weiss Fellow in the Lane Center for Computational Biology. 
The research team also included Russell Schwartz, professor 
of biological sciences; Philip 
LeDuc, professor of mechanical engineering and biological 
sciences; Marcel Bruchez, associate professor of biological 
sciences and chemistry; and 
Saumya Saurabh, a doctoral 
student in chemistry. Their article was published in the journal Nature Nanotechnology.
With hopes to offer new 
therapeutic treatments for disease and new energy sources 
in the form of biofuels, the 
?eld of synthetic biology could 
have a huge impact in the 
?elds of medicine and technology. Although the ?eld is 
about big solutions, researchers are beginning to look very 
small. Tan and his team specifically looked at the effects of 
molecular crowding on gene 
expression in cells.
In the ?eld of synthetic 
biology, scientists have been 
trying to create synthetic cells. 
These cells are pieces of technology that act similarly to 
the cells within our body but 
whose genomes  the blueprint for all cellular mechanisms and development  are 
entirely created in a laboratory. The point of creating these 
systems is to minimize the 
information present in a cell. 
For example, if a researcher 
wanted to know the effects of 
a cancer drug on one particular protein, the cell would only 
include the genetic information needed for that protein 
and basic cellular function. 
These arti?cial cells, however, 
lack a phenomenon common 
in most living cells: molecular 
crowding.
Molecular crowding refers 
to the density of macromolecules in a cell. Living cells are 
?lled with these molecules, 
which can refer to carbohydrates, proteins, and nucleic 
acids  all the stuff needed 
for a cell to function to properly. Scientists in the ?eld of 
synthetic biology are unsure 
if crowding can enhance the 
gene expression in a cell. In 
other words, having more 
stuff in a cell may create faster 
circuits to turn on and off certain genes. Tan and his group 
wanted to see if molecular 
crowding does in fact have 
an effect on gene expression, 
which is the process of activating a certain gene to encode a 
protein.
In their experiments, the 
researchers utilized a bacteriophage  a special kind of virus 
that infects bacteria  called 
T7. The researchers manipulated the molecular crowding 
in the phage and then studied 
the impact on the expression 
of a particular gene. They accomplished this by using different sizes and densities of inert polymers in environments 
similar to the arti?cial cells. 
Larger, denser polymers were 
meant to mimic a crowded environment. Inert polymers are 
made up of multiple subunits 
and are nonreactive.
The results showed that 
molecular crowding does indeed improve the robustness 
of gene expression in living 
cells. More ef?cient gene expression occurred in the trials with the larger polymers. 
Furthermore, the group found 
other ways to increase the ef?ciency of gene expression by 
changing the concentration of 
certain ions in their experiment.
The groups study provided 
new information that may 
help bioengineers develop 
better synthetic systems that 
include effects similar to molecular crowding. Our ?ndings underscore how scientists 
could harness functioning 
mechanisms of natural cells 
to their advantage to control 
these synthetic cellular systems, as well as in hybrid systems that combine synthetic 
materials and natural cells, 
Tan said in a university press 
release.
Courtesy of davehwng via ?ickr
A bacteriophage, shown above, is a kind of virus that infects bacteria. Tan and his team utilized the 
bacteriophage T7 in their experiments on molecular crowding.

---------------------------------------------------

Office: University Center 314
Phone: (412) 268-2111
Fax: (412) 268-1596
Web: www.thetartan.org
E-mail: contact@thetartan.org
Mail:
The Tartan
Box 119, UC Suite 103 
5000 Forbes Avenue 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
SENIOR STAFF 
Stephanie Blotner, Greg Hanneman
COPY
Swathi Anand, Francesca Begos, Matt 
Brown, Connie Chan, Nivedita Chopra, Blaine 
Greenberg, Satvika Neti, Joey Peiser, Sage Po, 
Taylor Rawley, Stephanie Stern
ADVERTISING
Gretchen Tan
JENNIFER COLOMA *
Publisher
JOSH SMITH *
Editor-in-Chief
BRADEN KELNER 
Forum Editor 
EVAN KAHN
Copy Manager
JUSTIN MCGOWN
Online Editor
CHLOE THOMPSON
Staffwriter
BRENT HEARD *
Staffwriter
KELSEY SCOTT *
Operations Manager
NEL UM
News Editor
MICHAEL SETZER
SciTech Editor
RACHEL COHEN
Pillbox Editor
KAIRAVI CHAHAL
Comics Editor
KATE GROSCHNER
Photo Editor
ANNETTE KO
Art Editor
WILL CRICHTON
Systems Manager
LINDA JU
Advertising Manager
DESIREE XU
Business Manager
JONATHAN LEUNG
Asst. Photo Editor
WILLIAM PARK
Asst. Forum Editor
HANNAH DELLABELLA
Asst. Copy Manager
JULIA YANG
Asst. Copy Manager
BRIAN TRIMBOLI
Asst. News Editor
BROOKE KUEI
Asst. SciTech Editor
LAURA SCHERB
Asst. Pillbox Editor
JONATHAN CARREON
Contributing Editor
Editorial Staff
 2013 The Tartan, all rights reserved.
Library of Congress ISSN: 0890-3107
The Tartan is a student newspaper at Carnegie Mellon University, funded in part by the student 
activities fee. It is a weekly publication by students during the fall and spring semesters, printed by 
Trib Total Media. The Tartan is not an official publication of Carnegie Mellon University.
The Editorials appearing at the beginning of the opinion section are the official opinion of The 
Tartan Editorial Board. Columns, Editorial Cartoons, and Reviews are the opinions of their 
individual creators. The Tartan Editorial Staff reserves the right to withhold from publication 
any copy it deems unfit.
Letters to the Editor are the opinions of their authors. Letters from within the University community take precedence. Letters intended for publication must be signed and include the authors 
address and telephone number for verification; letters must not exceed 350 words. Authors names 
may be withheld from publication upon request. The Tartan reserves the right to condense or reject 
any letter. Letters must be submitted by 5 p.m. on the Wednesday before publication by mail or to 
forum@thetartan.org.
* Denotes executive committee member
StaffEditorial Board
A6  thetartan.org/forum The Tartan  August 26, 2013
Braden Kelner/Forum Editor
FROM THE EDITORIAL BOARD
ELI ZOGHLIN
Junior Staffwriter
Songwriters who are stumped 
while writing a pop hit  or maybe 
a dance jam to rock the club scene  
seem to do what so many have done 
in the past: Write a love song. From 
medieval odes to anything on Taylor 
Swifts latest album Red, weve been 
writing love songs for a long time.
Theres nothing wrong with the 
musical worlds history of writing 
about love. Love is a complicated 
and deep emotion that can inspire 
great songwriting. It seems these 
days, though, that so many artists 
just ?ll an entire album with love 
songs, be they lamentations or glori?cations. Having a few love songs 
on an album is understandable   
love is a central part of the human 
experience. But is there nothing else 
in this great and beautiful world to 
write about? People have been writing love songs since theyve been 
writing songs, and there certainly 
doesnt need to be another album 
full of them.
As a writer myself, I can see the 
temptation that songwriters have 
to write love songs. Love is a powerful emotion and one of the few 
intimate experiences that can be 
commonly understood. That common understanding means that it 
is much easier for a songwriter to 
spark a moment of connection with 
an audience, something I think of as 
a good goal for any song. However, 
some artists  Taylor Swift comes 
to mind again  abuse the easy 
connection that a love song grants 
and use it to pump out cookie-cutter 
hits. Writing about an emotion also 
lends itself to abstraction. Listening 
to an album with 12 songs full of abstractions leaves me dissatis?ed and 
mindlessly humming the one catchy 
song on the album. It doesnt leave 
me with anything to think about or 
give me an appreciation for the originality of the writing.
We should not stop writing about 
love. It is too important an emotion, 
and Im sure people will continue 
to ?nd original things to say about 
love for a long time. All I ask is that 
songwriters branch out and not retreat into abstractions about love. 
Instead, they must write songs that 
touch on the full gamut of emotions 
and experiences that life offers. Listeners should be told a story or impressed by clever wordplay.
Songwriters, follow the lead of 
Sara Bareilles: Dont write me a love 
song. Explore the scope of human 
nature and emotions in your songwriting, and paint a more complete 
picture of the world we live in with 
your lyrics.
Please dont write me any more love songs
CHLOE THOMPSON
Violent military crackdowns 
against protesters in Egypt last 
week called into question the continuation of U.S. military aid to the 
country. The protesters, rallied by 
the Muslim Brotherhood, support 
recently ousted president Mohamed 
Morsi. According to Amnesty International, over 1,000 people have 
been killed in these crackdowns.
The U.S. supplies $1.5 billion in 
military aid to Egypt annually. Given 
the recent atrocities, critics are calling for that aid to be immediately 
suspended. However, the situation 
in Egypt is both extremely complex 
and deeply delicate, and the military aid is not as simple as it seems.
The U.S. is not simply handing 
Egypt money; Egypt is part of the 
Foreign Military Financing program 
(FMF). More than 70 countries are 
part of this program, including Israel, Pakistan, and Colombia. Countries involved in the FMF are given 
certain funds that can only be used 
to purchase military equipment, 
and only from American contractors. Egypt does have a remarkable 
amount of freedom within this system, but it is not the only one; Israel enjoys a similar liberty. Once 
Egypt orders a shipment of military 
equipment, U.S. contractors build it 
and send it. However, the U.S. can 
block or suspend shipments. While 
the U.S. has not of?cially cut aid, 
they have suspended the delivery of 
Egypts military orders inde?nitely. 
By delaying the delivery of military 
equipment, the U.S. can protest the 
actions of the Egyptian military, 
without losing the leverage in the 
Middle East that aid provides.
Admittedly, that leverage is tenuous at best. Other nations, including 
Saudi Arabia, have indicated that 
they would supply military aid if the 
U.S. suspended it, according to CNN. 
But the current agreement with 
Egypt is long standing and dates 
back to the Camp David Accords, 
peace talks between Israel and 
Egypt that the U.S. hosted in 1978. 
This historical precedent does not 
mean that the U.S. has to aid Egypt, 
but it means that the situation in 
the Middle East has a foundation in 
established policies. U.S. condemnation of the recent actions of the 
Egyptian military would impact relationships between Middle Eastern 
nations in unpredictable ways. The 
U.S. also receives privileged access 
through military aid to the Suez 
Canal, which is both economically 
important and key for maintaining a 
foothold in the Middle East.
The Egyptian militarys violent 
behavior is unconscionable, and if 
the issue of aid were only a question 
of morality, then the United States 
should withdraw that support. However, the issue is more complex, and 
involves the stability of an entire region. The U.S. chose to involve itself 
in an extremely complex situation, 
and that commitment cannot be reversed easily. Withdrawing support 
from Egypt would most certainly 
lead to more violence and further 
chaos, but ostensibly maintaining 
that support while undercutting it in 
subtle ways has the potential to curtail the Egyptian military without 
destabilizing the Middle East.
Chloe Thompson (cet@) is a staffwriter for The Tartan.
U.S. cannot stop aiding Egypt during crackdown
Move from Webmail server must be better publicized
LinkedIn University Pages offer little new information
Obamas outlined college goals need more de?nition
All I ask is that 
songwriters branch 
out and not retreat 
into abstractions 
about love.
Carnegie Mellon Computing Services is of?cially transitioning all undergraduate student email services 
to Google Apps this fall. New students received this service on Aug. 
16, while upperclass students will 
transition from the existing SquirrelMail this weekend. The Computing 
Services website states that as part of 
this change students will have email, 
calendar, and document services 
available through Google, in addition to 30 gigabytes of digital storage. Students will be able to log in 
to this service using their Andrew ID 
and password, and there are numerous scheduled times during which 
Computing Services will be available 
to answer questions.
Moving to Google Apps is an excellent decision by the university, but 
it must be heavily advertised to the 
student body before the transition 
occurs. Currently, only one email 
about transition support was sent 
to the entire campus community, 
reminding students to empty their 
trash and spam folders to ensure a 
smooth transition.
Many other institutions now use 
Google to host their mail, and many 
Carnegie Mellon students have personal Gmail addresses and forward 
their Andrew email to these accounts. While the update to SquirrelMail at the beginning of the previous 
school year was a marked improvement, it has become clear that an application provider like Google is far 
more effective at providing reliable, 
easy-to-use mail services. Through 
this transition, students also gain the 
use of services such as Google Calendar and Google Docs to collaborate 
and work with others, in addition to 
the extra storage space.
In order to better publicize this 
move, Computing Services must 
make students aware of the in-depth 
documentation it has on its website 
concerning the move. The documentation covers topics like login information, mobile device setup, and 
frequently asked questions. This information, or the link to the website, 
should also be dispersed through 
email and placed in prominent locations on campus for students to view.
If Computing Services does not 
publicize the move to Google Apps 
well before the transition occurs 
for upperclassmen, students could 
encounter technical problems that 
they are not prepared for. More importantly, they could lose correspondence that they left unattended in 
SquirrelMail. 
The confusion that students may 
encounter once the move occurs 
could be avoided if all students are 
explicitly aware of the changes and 
of all Google programs available.
In an attempt to reach a younger 
audience, LinkedIn recently created University Pages  of?cial 
pro?les for universities on LinkedIn. 
Through the website, users will have 
access to a database of 200 university pro?les  with more to come 
 on LinkedIn. These pro?les will 
include information about alumni, 
such as where they work and which 
companies recruit them after graduation. The university will be able to 
post updates, and prospective students will have the option to ask 
students, staff, and alumni questions 
about the university.
University Pages is a great aggregator for pooling information about 
alumni, but these pages bring little 
new information that students can 
research online when looking at prospective schools.
Students may be able to 
get college information from a 
well-regarded professional website, 
but this information is often already 
provided on university websites 
or unof?cial channels like College 
Con?dential. LinkedIn does offer 
information about which companies 
alumni are hired by in one location. 
However, the types of companies 
that alumni join is also often found 
through sources like U.S. News & 
World Report and individual college websites through information 
about popular majors, although 
speci?c company names may not be 
mentioned. Some colleges, such as 
Carnegie Mellon, release lists of top 
employment companies.
Admittedly, University Pages is 
valuable for the connections that 
students can form with members 
of campus communities. The pages 
could provide a hub for students to 
get to know staff and professors on 
campus before visiting. It may not 
help students to connect with other 
students, though, as most students 
already use Facebook groups or chatrooms to make these initial connections if they choose to do so online.
Like any social networking website, LinkedIn will only gain traf?c if 
it has users who determine that the 
website has invaluable content. With 
many websites already established 
that provide similar information, 
LinkedIn may have trouble attracting and, more importantly, keeping 
the younger user base it is trying to 
reach through University Pages.
LinkedIns new University Pages 
does a solid job at aggregating information about colleges and universities, but the pages do not provide information unique enough to attract 
the new users it targets.
The cost of college has skyrocketed over the past few years. According 
to President Barack Obama during a 
speech at the University of Buffalo 
last Thursday, tuition rates at fouryear public colleges have risen by 
more than 250 percent over a span 
of 30 years, and the average student 
graduates with over $26,000 of debt.
In response to the increased cost 
of education, Obama proposed a 
plan during his speech for making 
college more affordable. His three 
goals include creating a new rating 
system for colleges based on opportunity; getting colleges to provide 
new economical methods for education; and making debt more manageable.
While Obamas goals are admirable, his changes needed more concrete explanations during his speech 
to show that the proposed sweeping 
reforms can be implemented with 
ease.
Throughout his speech, Obama 
provided clear goals for providing 
more affordable education and even 
pointed to innovative ideas that 
universities are enacting, including 
Carnegie Mellon's initiative to help 
students master material online at 
lower costs.
With tuition costs of $46,670 for 
incoming students, Carnegie Mellons student body that pays a lot for 
its education. Suggestions for lowering this cost for incoming students 
would no doubt be well received.
A more in-depth explanation of 
each goal would have made Obama's 
plans seem more attainable. His plan 
for creating a new rating system was 
also explained broadly, with a tentative launch date of 2015 for the system. However, there was little word 
on the progress for a new rating system beyond the appointment of Secretary of Education Arne Duncan to 
lead the initiative. Obama spoke of 
incentives for schools to create new 
ways of learning at a more affordable rate, but did not provide specifics on how these incentives would be 
enforced or implemented.
Additionally, Obama spoke about 
advertising an already-existing 
method for paying loans called the 
Pay As You Earn plan to encourage 
students to take advantage of it, but 
offered little more in terms of new 
ways to help students pay loans.
The goals presented in Obamas 
speech will most likely positively impact students looking toward higher 
education, but only if these goals 
translate into action. 
Without these speci?cally detailed actions, Obamas speech 
seems premature; it would have 
been more effective if he had discussed current government action 
toward encouraging schools to be 
innovative when making education 
more affordable.

---------------------------------------------------

A PERSONS OPINION
The Tartan is excited to see a new class joining the campus community this week. So we asked,
What was your favorite part of Orientation?
Compiled by Kate Groschner
Yu Wu
ECE
Senior
Meeting my new classmates was 
really exciting.
Barbara Samaniego
Economics & Statistics
First-year
Pittsburgh Connections trip   
white-water rafting.
Jimmy Petka
ChemE
Junior
Meeting the awesome people in 
Boss 3.
Nick Zuniga
Biology & Psychology
Senior
Getting lost exploring downtown 
Pittsburgh.
Chelsea Kwong
ChemE
First-year
My RA at our first floor 
meeting.
August 26, 2013  The Tartan thetartan.org/forum  A7
Panic buttons serve as worthy alternatives to armed educators
WILLIAM PARK
Undergraduates all over the 
world will return from summer jobs, 
research fellowships, and internships this week. One summer intern, 
however, will not.
Moritz Erhardt, a 21-year-old ?-
nance intern at the London Bank of 
America Merrill Lynch, was found 
dead in his London apartment on 
Aug. 15. The cause of his death is 
currently unknown, but Erhardt reportedly worked 72 hours straight 
without sleep, according to Reuters.
Finance internships are as competitive to get as they are demanding. According to The Guardian, a 
fellow intern of Erhardt said that 
interns typically worked 15 hours a 
day. Some interns often voluntarily 
work overtime  working long 
hours, they believe, is the surest way 
to impress their bosses and receive 
a job offer with a starting salary approaching six ?gures.
No one explicitly told Erhardt 
that he had to abandon three days 
of sleep  but while ?nance interns 
can bene?t from their hard work, 
no one bene?ts more from interns 
zealousness and ambitiousness than 
the ?nancial institutions employing 
them. If their interns want to work 
overtime, why stop them?
Such a mentality does little to 
change their greedy reputation. In 
a 2012 poll conducted by the Pew 
Research Center, only 22 percent of 
American respondents had a positive view on banks.
To many, it isnt surprising that 
banks would abuse customers or 
take advantage of the law, but to 
take advantage of ones own workers is going too far. Yet, what will 
they do? Expecting major ?nancial 
institutions to change their treatment of interns out of a moral regret 
would be comical.
Although the indifference of Erhardts supervisors is certainly deplorable, his death ultimately comes 
down to his willingness to work 72 
hours straight.
The most impactful change must 
occur not at the top, but at the bottom. Finance interns may not be 
able to change the exploitative culture of their chosen ?eld, but they 
can change how willing they are to 
succumb to its pressures. Although 
there is a high-paying job that interns are more or less auditioning 
for, there should be a limit to the 
sacri?ces they are willing to pay for 
their future.
This sentiment is not only applicable to ?nance interns but to many 
young adults. As employers still ?nd 
themselves cash-strapped from the 
global recession, they want to hire 
fewer employees who are versatile 
and want to work more hours. In a 
March article in The New York Times 
titled The No-Limits Job on the 
topic of demanding entry-level jobs, 
a media manager said, We need 
to hire a 22-22-22, referring to a 
22-year-old willing to work 22 hours 
a day for $22,000 a year.
Thus, many college graduates 
and undergraduates take demanding internships and entry-level jobs 
in the hopes of securing better jobs 
in the future. Lucrative, high-paying 
jobs dont grow on trees, and while 
working hard is often a requirement 
of securing that goal, there is a limit.
While a distant golden apple 
may justify the sacri?ces interns and 
entry-level employees make, there 
may be  in extreme cases like 
Erhardts  no future at all. Moreover, theres always another golden 
apple  some current unobtainable 
that can be reached with sacri?ces 
made in the present: a higher position, a bigger house, or a faster car.
The journey to success is not always comfortable, but ones health 
should never be compromised. One 
must be healthy to enjoy the fruits of 
his or her labor.
William Park (wkp@) is assistant Forum editor for The Tartan.
Cut-throat attitude hurts 
intern health irreparably
BRADEN KELNER
In the aftermath of the tragic 
shooting at Sandy Hook Elementary 
School in Newtown, Conn., many 
American schools increased security. 
According to The Wall Street Journal, 
over 400 schools across the country 
recently installed permanent panic 
buttons behind desks or placed mobile buttons in the hands of school 
administrators. These buttons can 
alert authorities or security companies, send text messages to staff, or 
sound school alarms in the event of 
an emergency. The West Vine Street 
School in Stonington, Conn. recently 
installed a panic button system that 
will even automatically close doors in 
the school, according to Stonington 
local newspaper The Day.
The need for increased security 
was reaf?rmed last Tuesday, when  
20-year-old Michael Hill entered 
Ronald E. McNair Discovery Learning Academy in Atlanta, Ga. with 
?rearms. It is likely that he would 
have caused harm had a staff member not talked him out of his deadly 
intentions. While panic buttons may 
not offer the same protection as the 
armed guards that many have suggested, these devices are a more economically feasible and less controversial form of student protection.
According to The Wall Street Journal, panic buttons can be installed in 
schools for $300 to $800 each. The 
system placed recently in the West 
Vine Street School, which lies about 
75 miles from Newtown, cost $10,000 
and includes buttons in classrooms, 
according to The Day. In contrast, 
the median pay for an individual 
police of?cer is $55,010 annually, 
the Bureau of Labor Statistics found. 
Based on these costs, hiring armed 
guards may cost school districts over 
$45,000 more than the initial installation of panic buttons. Hiring more 
than one guard per school dramatically increases that price difference. 
Although there are operating costs 
associated with panic buttons, their 
total cost is much less than the cost of 
hiring armed of?cers. For example, 
panic buttons installed in six schools 
and two administrative buildings in 
Apache Junction, Ariz. will have an 
annual operating cost of only $4,000 
a year on top of their initial cost, according to ABC15 Arizona.
The introduction of panic buttons may be a welcome alternative 
to armed guards in a country where 
cash-strapped schools are abundant; 
the Center on Budget and Policy 
Priorities found that 37 states provided less funding for the 2011 12 
academic year than they did for the 
201011 academic year. While guards 
may provide more visible protection 
than panic buttons, many school districts may not be able to justify the 
cost of guards compared to the lower 
cost of panic buttons.
The visible presence of armed 
guards may even have detrimental 
effects on students. A study by the 
Youth & Society journal conducted 
in 2011 found that armed guards on 
school premises made some students 
feel less safe. While the presence of 
armed guards on elementary school 
grounds may provide reassurance for 
parents and community members, 
the constant visible reminder of possible threats may be harmful to some 
students psychological well-being, 
whereas the less obtrusive nature of 
panic buttons would help the devices 
go generally unnoticed by students.
Many have suggested that teachers, rather than of?cers, should be 
equipped with ?rearms, but this solution also has problems. A report 
by the School Improvement Network 
conducted in January found that 
about 7,720 of 10,661 teachers  
72.4 percent  said they would be 
unlikely to bring a ?rearm to school if 
they could. Teachers themselves must 
be comfortable carrying ?rearms if 
they are going to be armed. Even if 
they were comfortable, educators 
would also have to learn how to properly use these ?rearms and complete 
further training as security measures 
change over time. Some teachers 
have completed training courses that 
lasted as little as six hours, according 
to the Daily Mail. This small amount 
of training will not prepare teachers 
to properly handle their weapons 
during an emergency situation. Panic 
buttons are not dangerous weapons 
and do not require extensive training, making them a viable solution 
for security this fall. It must also be 
noted that it was a staff member who 
was able to relate to others, and not 
armed personnel, who stopped the 
would-be shooter in Atlanta.
Admittedly, panic buttons may 
not provide the same level of ?rstline protection as armed personnel. 
However, they are a relatively uncontroversial method of security that can 
be implemented quickly and inexpensively to give elementary-school 
educators another defense in their 
arsenal for ensuring child safety.
Braden Kelner (bik@) is Forum editor 
for The Tartan.
XIYU WANG
Recently, Allegheny County district attorney Stephen Zappala announced that Pittsburgh police will 
take refresher training regarding 
when citizens are allowed to videotape the force, according to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. This program 
appears to have been prompted by 
recent incidents in Pittsburgh and 
across the nation regarding police 
of?cers responses to citizens videotaping them in public.
It is unlikely, however, that this 
refresher course alone  without 
any punitive measures for police of?cers who stray from the guidelines 
 will solve a problem that is nationwide in scope: Police harassing 
people who have videotaped them.
In a time when everyone has a 
cell phone and an eagerness to document every aspect of their lives, it 
is no wonder that recordings of police encounters have become more 
frequent since the 1990s, when the 
videotaped beating of Rodney King 
stirred riots and national controversy. Although no video has created 
the same level of uproar these days, 
police often react negatively and 
sometimes even forcibly when they 
realize people are taping them.
For instance, Anthony Graber, a 
Maryland Air National Guard staff 
sergeant, put up a video on YouTube 
of an encounter with a state trooper 
in which the trooper cut Graber off 
in an unmarked vehicle and yelled 
at him while holding a gun in plain 
clothes, according to Time magazine. 
In response, the police searched 
Grabers home, arrested him, and 
charged him with wiretapping. 
There have also been other instances 
where police of?cers have arrested 
or harassed citizens who videotaped 
them.
It is important to note that in 
these cases, the police were recorded 
in a public space, where there is little 
expectation of privacy. If any other 
citizen had been recorded in these 
spaces, it would be very unlikely that 
the person behind the camera would 
have been arrested and charged with 
wiretapping.
There are some instances in 
which there is a legitimate need to 
keep aspects of police work private. 
For instance, in a drug bust against 
a gang, police who are identi?ed can 
become targets of that gang.
However, police are often caught 
on camera in everyday situations 
that have been horribly mishandled. 
For example, in one viral YouTube 
video, a New York Police Department of?cer is seen shoving a bicyclist to the ground. The of?cer, 
who claimed the bicyclist collided 
into him, was thrown off the force. 
In these cases, amateur videos can 
serve to check police power.
The harsh police response to 
instances of videotaping serves to 
protect the forces image. Perhaps 
these responses are done in part to 
minimize hostility toward their respective departments. It makes one 
wonder, then, how truly effective 
a tactic of intimidation and harassment would be to this end. More 
disturbing, however, is the implication that the police are abusing their 
power as protectors of the public to 
cover their own tracks when they act 
improperly.
In other aspects, videotapes have 
been a boon for law enforcement due 
to their value as evidence in investigations and trials. Video recordings 
have often been used to ?nd lawbreakers, such as the Boston bomber 
from last April.
Police often react apprehensively 
to amateur videos when it is their 
own wrongful actions that have been 
caught on camera. There have been 
some small attempts  from both 
courts and municipal governments 
 to protect the rights of citizens 
videotaping police, but not much 
action has been taken in response. 
The Allegheny County district attorneys statement may not be enough 
to prevent cases in which police harass people who tape them, but it is 
a sign that this problem is becoming 
increasingly recognized.
Xiyu Wang (xiyuw@) is a staffwriter 
for The Tartan.
Videotape training wont cause change
Annette Ko/Art Editor

---------------------------------------------------

A8  thetartan.org/sports The Tartan  August 26, 2013
JOSH SMITH
Editor-in-Chief
It was announced late 
spring semester 2013 that 
Carnegie Mellon will be developing the schools ?rst 
ever womens golf team for 
the 201314 academic year. 
The womens golf team will 
initially start out as a club 
team, tentatively participating at the intercollegiate 
level by the 201415 season. Director of athletics 
Susan Bassett is excited for 
the addition of the program 
to Carnegie Mellons roster 
of intercollegiate and club 
sports. Womens golf is an 
emerging sport within the 
NCAA and Division III and 
we are thrilled to offer additional opportunities for 
women to compete at the 
college level, Bassett said 
in a Carnegie Mellon Athletics press release.
Interim director of athletics, physical education, 
and recreation Josh Centor 
announced on Aug. 12 that 
Ladies Professional Golf Association (LPGA) veteran 
Missie Berteotti will take 
the position of womens 
varsity golf head coach, according to a Carnegie Mellon Athletics press release. 
Berteotti, a Pittsburgh native, performed in the LPGA 
for 14 years, was a 1984 
NCAA champion with the 
University of Miami, a twotime Pennsylvania state 
champion, and is the author of The Mental Mastery 
Program, an instruction 
manual for golf and life. I 
am very excited to help develop the ?rst womens golf 
team at Carnegie Mellon 
University and be af?liated 
with this great university, 
Berteotti said in a press  
release.
Student athletes interested in joining the 
womens golf team should 
SPORTS COMMENTARY
Steelers team evolves, strives for improvement
CARL GLAZER
Staffwriter
Last season was a rough 
one for the Pittsburgh Steelers. 
The team went 88 and missed 
the playoffs for the third time 
since quarterback Ben Roethlisbergers rookie season in 
2004. As expected, the Steelers 
made several off-season moves 
to get the team back to its winning ways. Nearly every position on the team experienced 
major changes in an effort to 
improve.
Big Ben is still ?rmly entrenched as the starter, but his 
backups have changed quite 
dramatically. Bruce Gradkowski spent the last two seasons 
in Cincinnati backing up Andy 
Dalton. While Gradkowski 
hasnt started a game since his 
2010 season with the Oakland 
Raiders, he represents a big upgrade over the combination of 
38-year-old Charlie Batch and 
injury-prone Byron Leftwich. 
The Steelers also drafted University of Oklahoma quarterback Landry Jones. With both 
Roethlisberger and Gradkowski in their 30s, the Steelers 
wanted a young quarterback 
to follow the veterans. Hopefully Gradkowski and Landry 
dont see the ?eld this season, 
but with Roethlisberger having 
not started a full season since 
2008, they will likely be called 
on at some point.
Last year, running back 
Rashard Mendenhall was rehabbing a torn ACL suffered 
during the regular season ?-
nale of the 2011 campaign. 
He missed the ?rst six games 
of the season and was quickly 
injured and out again until November. By that time, backups 
Isaac Redman and Jonathan 
Dwyer had combined to deliver a solid game even while battling injuries of their own. Due 
to Mendenhalls displeasure 
with being replaced, the team 
let him leave in free agency and 
drafted LeVeon Bell in the second round. 
Unfortunately, the Pittsburgh running backs have 
been bit by the injury bug 
again, with Redman and Bell 
out. To compensate, the Steelers picked up LaRod StephensHowling to be the third down 
back and traded for former 
Dallas Cowboys ?rst-round 
pick Felix Jones, who had been 
training with the Philadelphia 
Eagles.
The Steelers are currently 
without both their top wide out 
and tight end from last season. 
They lost wide receiver Mike 
Wallace through restricted free 
agency to the Miami Dolphins, 
leaving Emmanuel Sanders 
and Antonio Brown to pick up 
the slack. Plaxico Burress was 
hoping to make a contribution as the third receiver, but 
a torn rotator cuff has knocked 
him out for at least the season. 
Tight end Heath Miller has 
been injured for most of training camp but is due to return 
sometime in September. Until then, former Chicago Bear 
starter Matt Spaeth and last 
years seventh-round pick David Paulson will ?ll in.
The main difference between this years offensive 
line and last seasons is health. 
The same ?ve linemen starting this year would have been 
starters last year if not for injury. Left guard Ramon Foster 
and center Maurkice Pouncey 
were the only healthy starters 
for the majority of last season. 
Second-year right guard David DeCastro missed most of 
his rookie season with an injured right knee, second-year 
left tackle Mike Adams missed 
time with an ankle injury, and 
third-year right tackle Marcus 
Gilbert missed time with a severe ankle injury. This group 
of guys should give Big Ben 
the best protection hes had in 
a while, if they remain healthy.
The defensive line was one 
of the few consistent positions 
for the Steelers, with only nose 
tackle Casey Hampton leaving 
from last years main rotation. 
Pittsburgh is counting on Steve 
McLendon to ?ll Hamptons 
very large shoes. Defensive 
ends Ziggy Hood, Brett Keisel, 
and Cameron Heyward are all 
returning and hoping to build 
on one of the few bright spots 
left from last season.
The Steelers linebacking corps has been one of the 
strengths in recent years. Arguably their best outside linebacker, James Harrison, left 
this off-season after declining 
performance. He signed with 
division rival Cincinnati and is 
trying to revive his career. Otherwise, the Steelers still have a 
great group of linebackers with 
LaMarr Woodley, Larry Foote, 
Lawrence Timmons, and Jason 
Worilds. The only real worry 
for Pittsburgh is keeping these 
veterans healthy since their 
only comprable backup is rookie Jarvis Jones.
Similar to the linebacker 
position, the Steelers didnt 
lose much in their secondary. 
The main loss was backup safety Will Allen to the Cowboys. 
Otherwise, Pittsburgh just 
bene?ted from getting starting 
corner Ike Taylor and nickel 
corner Curtis Brown back from 
season-ending injuries. Going 
forward, this position could 
turn from a strength to a weakness with perennial Pro Bowler 
Troy Polamalu nearing the end 
of his career and Taylor turning 
34 next off-season. There isnt 
much depth at either position, 
but Ryan Mundy was picked up 
from the New York Giants this 
off-season to try and ease the 
transition.
Overall, most of the Steelers roster changes are on the 
offensive side of the ball, with 
the defense hoping to bounce 
back after an injury-?lled season. But the defense is aging 
and each year comes closer 
and closer losing their edge.
Womens golf teamcreated
Kate Groschner/Photo Editor

---------------------------------------------------

Summer albums 
This seasons standout releases are 
noted, ranked, and reviewed  B4
08.26.13 Volume 108, Issue 2
Orientation 2013 
Photo Collage  B8

---------------------------------------------------

Comics
Cheesy jokes, scared animals, and spying  
this weeks comics have them all.
11
Dollar Movie
AB Films presents two acclaimed feel-good 
movies in McConomy Auditorium this weekend.
7
The Tartan . Box 119 . UC Suite 103 . Carnegie Mellon University . 5000 Forbes Ave . Pittsburgh, PA 15213 . www.thetartan.org .  2013 The Tartan
PUBLISHER Jennifer Coloma EDITOR-IN-CHIEF Josh Smith
PILLBOX EDITOR Rachel Cohen ASSISTANT PILLBOX EDITOR Laura Scherb COMICS EDITOR Kairavi Chahal 
ART EDITOR Annette Ko PHOTO EDITOR Kate Groschner 
COPY MANAGER Evan Kahn COVER Jonathan Carreon
8
45610
regulars...
Advice
Everything you need to know about impressing 
the world and sniffing out body snatchers.
3
...diversions
...this week only
Baths
The electronic musicians beautiful falsetto 
masks dark lyrics in his new release, Obsidian.
3
Summer albums
This series of short reviews ranks the standout 
musical releases of summer 13.
4
Roads of Arabia
The Carnegie Museum of Natural History 
whisks visitors away to the sands of Arabia.
5
Comedy
This years Orientation comedy show featured 
two well-received but very different comedians.
6
Rogue Legacy
Even seasoned gamers must be prepared to 
grapple with this summer release.
7
Orientation
This photo collage captures the color and 
excitement of this years Orientation.
8
PSO
Though currently on tour in Europe, the worldclass orchestra gears up for its new season.
10
Puzzles
Warm up those brain cells before the classes 
get too crazy.
13
Horoscopes
Some advice for your first week here, or your 
first week back from summer break.
14
Calendar
Consult this weeks calendar for arts and 
culture happenings on and off campus.
15

---------------------------------------------------

music 
pillbox 08.26.133
Obsidian is dark, depraved
Morbid lyrics characterize electronic musicians new album
Theres something very sumptuous about death 
and decay when Baths sings about it. Then again, 
everything sung by the electronic musician (real 
name Will Wiesenfeld) in his jaw-dropping falsetto 
is like an aural dessert. On Obsidian, its served up 
with existential angst and homoerotic imagery  
and its delicious.
Perhaps angst and imagery are understatements. 
The first lines of the album, on Worsening  a 
track that manages to simultaneously cleanse the 
soul and tear it asunder  are, Birth was like a fat, 
black tongue/dripping tar and dung and dye/slowly 
into my shivering eyes. Thats not angst. Thats 
downright macabre.
Also, homoerotic imagery would imply a degree of 
subtlety, of poetic nuance involved in the telling. 
The chorus from one of the most catchy tracks, No 
Eyes, goes like this: And it isnt a matter of/if you 
need it/But it is only a matter of/come and f*** me.
Putting the two tracks together, you get No Past 
Lives: Lodged in the rectal wall of agony/hell is our 
only home. Kinda heavy, right? But Baths somehow 
makes it easy to listen to.
Needless to say, Wiesenfeld grew bold for Obsidian. 
The flowery and nearly indecipherable language of 
his debut studio album, Cerulean  as hauntingly 
beautiful as it was  now seems like it was a wall 
for him to hide behind. Now, his falsetto is unfiltered, 
soaring and gorgeous, but he can do luscious 
soundscapes to accompany it better than ever. 
Ironworks and Worsening are proof of that.
The downright cruelty and forthrightness in 
some of the tracks can be jarring, especially if you 
listen to Cerulean first; theres no sign of it there. 
Incompatible shows just how acerbic Baths can 
be. He spends the song neglecting and castigating 
his first boyfriend: On nights you roll over and 
introduce yourself/I am elsewhere, he croons; 
Fascinating, terrible, you stupid idling mind/I could 
prod your hurt all night. What a nice guy.
I was never poetic, and never kind, he says in 
Incompatible. Well, the latter might be true, but his 
masterful lyrics invalidate the first.
Wiesenfelds voice breaks away from beauty only a 
couple times, and they make for some of the most 
powerful moments on Obsidian. Near the end of 
Incompatible, he filters his voice briefly to sounds 
like hes screaming, and in No Past Lives, he 
actually does scream out the word lodged, as if it 
were a war cry. In Earth Death, though, he sings at 
nearly full voice, and you can feel that its just on the 
cusp of turning into something vile sounding  and 
its all the more entrancing for it.
Right around the time he was supposed to start 
making the album, Wiesenfeld got E. coli. According 
to Pitchfork, he spent weeks unable to do anything 
but sleep, go to the bathroom, and play Skyrim. The 
frustration and helplessness he felt during that time 
undoubtedly aided in creating Obsidians lyrics and 
soundscape. Perhaps they were even the driving 
force.
Listening to Obsidian is like meeting up with a 
stranger in a park at night and having the best 
sex of your life. Its dirty, sensual, and incredibly 
frightening. After a while, though, you become 
accustomed to the darkness. You become resigned 
to the fact that your soul is just as unsalvageable as 
everyone elses, that deep down you really do want 
this. And you transform into a creature of the night.
Evan Kahn | Copy Manager
Courtesy of calebdrostphoto via Flickr
Advice for awkward people
Dear Patrick,
Its the first day of class, 
and I want to make a 
good impression on all 
my friends and these new 
people. How do I prove to 
everyone I became totally 
cool over the summer and 
am not the same dorky 
dweeb I was at the end of 
spring?
Thanks, 
Goals Of This Time 
Approaches: Become 
Excellently Fantastic, 
Require Encores, 
Seriously Hawt
Dear GOTTA BE FRESH,
The best way to show the 
masses you have reinvented 
yourself is to change your 
look in numerous drastic 
ways. If you had hair in the 
spring, shave it all off. Grow 
a beard (even if its patchy), 
and if you can make designs 
with it you absolutely should. 
Change up your wardrobe: 
start wearing vests, get new 
shirts with sassy phrases 
or topical or ironic logos 
on them, put on as many 
accessories as your body 
can support, and be sure to 
include a hat. I recommend 
top hats, but the Carnegie 
Mellon go-to is the fedora.
You should not, under any 
circumstances, ignore your 
craving for self-definition 
and instead try to be the 
best person you can be. 
You should not try to hold 
engaging conversations to 
get to know someone better. 
And you should absolutely 
not embrace yourself for 
who you are.
Embrace the quirky side,
Ryan Definitely Patrick 
Hoskins Black
Dear Patrick,
I thought you graduated? 
How is it that this column 
is still running? ARE YOU 
REALLY PATRICK??
Thanks,
Incredulously Nagging, 
Very Attentive Seeker 
In/Of Nearly Official 
Freelance Thespians, 
Has EveryBody Overtly 
Digging, Yet Sure 
Nihilistic Aliens Trample 
Creative Humans, Earning 
Required Supplies
Dear INVASION OF THE 
BODY SNATCHERS,
I can assure you that, 
though the original author 
of this column is no longer 
writing it, good hands have 
picked it up and will continue 
this great piece of periodical 
advisement for at least a 
while. I cannot promise 
a perfect transition, and I 
cannot promise the same 
quality or type of responses 
Patrick gave, but I will 
attempt to keep the spirit of 
Advice going.
Im definitely not an alien 
stealing Patricks literary 
body in preparation for 
a hostile takeover in the 
coming months. Definitely 
not.
Youll be the first to go,
Ryan Apparently Not 
Patrick Hoskins Black
Need advice? Send queries 
to advice@thetartan.org.
About making an impression and body snatching
Electronic musician Will Wiesenfeld, better known 
by his stage name Baths, somehow makes macabre lyrics sound beautiful in his new release, 
Obsidian.

---------------------------------------------------

4music
pillbox 08.26.13
Washed Out  Paracosm
When talking about summer music, theres no better 
place to start than with Ernest Greene, better known by 
his stage name, Washed Out. With his early EPs, High 
Times and Life of Leisure, Greene set himself up as 
chillwaves poster boy, and four years later, his aesthetic 
remains much the same on this months release, 
Paracosm. 
On Paracosm, Greene adds new textures to his already 
layered, reverb-laden sound, with birds chirping in the 
opening track and sounds of laughter and clapping later 
in the album. The album also has a greater focus on 
percussion, a refreshing change from 2011s Within and 
Without. Standout tracks from the new album include 
It All Feels Right, the albums ?rst single; All I Know, 
which spotlights an upbeat positivity that is sometimes 
missing from Greenes nostalgic sound; and Paracosm, 
a swirling track that makes it easy to forget the world 
around you. 
Although he doesnt push any boundaries with this one, 
Greene produced yet another solid summer soundtrack 
that will certainly come in handy when we need a gentle 
reminder that everything will be okay. Rating: 3.5/5
Julia Holter  Loud City Song
Loud City Song is the ?rst album that singer and multiinstrumentalist Julia Holter recorded primarily in a 
studio with an ensemble of other musicians; most of 
her ?rst two were recorded alone in her bedroom. The 
studio setup worked well for her, as the album shows 
a willingness to experiment with complex sounds, 
textures, and layers that was missing from her last 
release (2012s Ekstasis). 
Its hard to pick out the best tracks on this album. 
With swirling buildups that drop quickly to beautiful 
moments of stillness, Loud City Song fades seamlessly 
into the changing tides of daily life. Songs like Hello 
Stranger (a beautiful cover of Barbara Lewis 1963 R&B 
hit) and This Is a True Heart embody a quiet, cabaret 
vibe  while Maxims II builds into a wild, sinister 
mix of horns, drums, strings, and Holters own haunting 
whisper. 
Theres a lot to say about every track on this album, 
and the intricacies of Holters work reveal themselves 
only through many close listens. Generally, though, it 
seems that with this release, Holter has created what is 
simultaneously her most interesting and most accessible 
album to date. Rating: 4.5/5
Braids  Flourish // Perish
Montreal-based art pop group Braids took a boldly 
electronic approach this year, and Flourish // Perish 
shows the band ?nding its footing in a new world of 
electronic instrumentation. 
Although there are points on the album where it feels 
empty without the guitars that were so prominent on the 
groups debut, Native Speaker, the electronic backing 
forces the group to rely on singer Raphaelle StandellPrestons vocals for the main melodies. The singer 
seems to respond well to this challenge, maintaining her 
signature playful vocals throughout the album. Lyrically, 
the songs remain as evocative as ever, and even the 
sillier lyrics  in Hossak, Preston sings, A boy is 
knocking at my window with a slice of pizza and acid in 
his tum tum  have a poignant dreaminess to them. 
In some ways Braidss sophomore album doesnt live up 
to its 2011 debut, but when Braids is at its best on this 
album, its at its best ever: The harrowing depth of the 
latter half of the track Together and the buildup of the 
closing song In Kind reward the listener for waiting 
through the slower sections and show that the group has 
not lost its driving sound. Rating: 4/5
Other notable releases
Zola Jesus  Versions
As the title suggests, all of the songs on this album 
(except one) are new versions of previously released Zola 
Jesus tracks. For this release, Nika Roza Danilova (Zola 
Jesus)  who performed at Carnegie Mellon in April  
teamed up with a string quartet to rework the tracks, 
and while the strings are an interesting addition, they 
would make more sense on new compositions. 
The one new song on the album, Fall Back, 
demonstrates this perfectly: The song is a fantastic 
crescendo of strings and drums that builds up to an 
emotional and moving climax. Danilovas voice is as 
beautiful and powerful as ever, but many of the songs 
featured here  including Seekir and Vessel  were 
better the ?rst time around. Rating: 3/5
Edward Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeros  Edward 
Sharpe & the Magnetic Zeros
The Los Angeles-based groups self-titled third EP offers 
little that is new or surprising, but the upbeat folk tunes 
are still nice for a sunny day in Schenley Park. The 
lyrics and love-above-all-else vibes feel shallow at times, 
and nothing on this album lives up to past anthems 
like 2009s Home, but if you need something for the 
background, thisll do. Rating: 2/5
Julianna Barwick  Nepenthe
Julianna Barwick  who performed at The Underground 
in April 2012  has created another beautifully layered 
and looped album this year. The singer-songwriter 
expands her scope here, and allows for a wider range of 
emotions to come through on the deeply personal tracks.
Rating: 4/5
Allison Cosby | Staffwriter
Courtesy of subpop.com
Washed Outs Paracosm is a richly layered, refreshing 
album.
Summer 2013 produces solid releases
Standout works include albums by Braids, Julia Holter, Washed Out, and Zola Jesus
Braids Flourish // Perish experiments with bold electronic instrumentation.
Courtesy of braidsmusic.com

---------------------------------------------------

history
pillbox 08.26.135
Museum visitors travel the Roads of Arabia
Carnegie Museum of Natural Historys newest exhibit explores elusive history of Saudi Arabia
Walking into the Roads of Arabia exhibit at the 
Carnegie Museum of Natural History is like walking 
into a graveyard: Theres a sudden, silencing chill 
that momentarily takes you off guard. Standing at the 
entrance are three solitary stone ?gurines, their human 
faces inscrutable, the light casting their long, eerie 
shadows across the ?oor.
As the description on a far wall explains, these 
6,000-year-old anthropomorphic steles were most likely 
used for religious or burial purposes. Striking as they are, 
the steles comprise only a small part of the rich array 
of rare artifacts used to illustrate the fascinating and 
elusive history of Saudi Arabia.
As it turns out, Roads of Arabia is an apt title for the 
exhibit: Saudi Arabias history is mapped out in roads, 
which ?rst transported incense for trade and later carried 
pilgrims journeying to Mecca. Viewers get to brush up 
on their Arabian history (or start from scratch) with an 
introductory video  the most useful, yet most easily 
overlooked, part of the exhibit. Tucked away in a dark, 
hidden room, the video vividly and poetically explains 
the human element behind the artifacts and connects 
the dots between objects and dates that on their own 
can lose their context.
Though every object in the exhibit is stunning in its 
own right, a few stand out for their sheer wow factor. 
In a far room of the exhibit stand three larger-thanlife Lihyanite statues with human faces and bodies 
degraded by the elements, somewhat reminiscent of 
classic Egyptian sphinxes. Aside from their size, theres 
something sublime about being in such close proximity 
to ancient objects.Despite the majesty of the statues, the most 
unquestionably stunning pieces are the tombstones from 
the al-Mala cemetery in Mecca. The stones are arranged 
in rows that emulate a graveyard, creating an air of 
hushed solemnity as viewers walk from one stone to the 
other, reading the intricate inscriptions on the markers.
At the end of this short detour, viewers ?nd themselves 
standing before a formidable set of faded purple, silvergilded double doors, ?anked by a giant pair of golden 
candlesticks. These massive doors once guarded the 
entrance to the Kaba  Arabic for the cube  one 
of the most sacred sites in Islam, located in the heart of 
Mecca.
Incredible as they are, these artifacts wouldnt be 
half as impressive without the wealth of information 
the exhibit provides. Between informational videos 
and labels, Roads of Arabia does an excellent job of 
supplementing the objects on display with rich, 
meaningful context. Viewers quickly learn that this is 
not your typical exhibit of prehistoric tools and stone 
carvings, but rather an exhibit of objects that became 
instrumental in reshaping archaeologists understanding 
of the Arab region.
In this way, Roads of Arabia truly takes the road motif 
to heart. From beginning to end, viewers sense they are 
on a journey of sorts; after all, in an exhibit covering a 
region that saw so much travel across history, it makes 
sense for viewers to undergo experiences similar to 
those the exhibit explores  at least on a symbolic level. 
Though not strictly chronological, Roads of Arabia moves 
?uidly through history, enabling viewers to transport 
across time in an enclosed physical space. Visitors to 
Roads of Arabia may not be able to help but feel as if 
they are retracing the footsteps of long-dead Arabians as 
they walk through the exhibit.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Roads of Arabia will be on view at the Carnegie Museum 
of Natural History through Nov. 3.Courtesy of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, the Smithsonians Museums 
of Asian Art, and the National Museum, Riyadh.
This 6,000-year-old anthropomorphic stele, which 
most likely served religious or burial functions, is 
one of three that stands at the entrance to the 
Roads of Arabia exhibit.
These silver-gilded wooden doors stood at the entrance to the Kaba, a monument to Islam supposedly 
established by the prophet Muhammad when he conquered Mecca in 630 CE.
Courtesy of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, the Smithsonians Museums of Asian Art, and the National Museum, Riyadh.

---------------------------------------------------

6comedy 
pillbox 08.26.13
This years Orientation comedy show, presented by 
AB Comedy last Friday, featured two different styles of 
comedy by two accomplished comedians.
The ?rst half of the show featured Josh Rabinowitz. 
Rabinowitzs career in stand-up comedy began in 
Philadelphia while he was attending the University 
of Pennsylvania; he now lives in New York City. Since 
then he has been named one of Comedy Centrals 2011 
Comics to Watch, and has performed in various comedy 
festivals.
Rabinowitzs awkwardness and shortcomings drove 
his comedy. He found humor in the sad mediocrity of 
his existence and in his friends often trivial problems, 
spiced with occasional forays into absurd topics. 
Rabinowitz was much like a college-age Louis C.K., 
especially when he opened up about his ?aws and 
insecurities.
Rabinowitz led with a story about his own college 
orientation, in which he was constantly one-upped by 
everyone in his group during an icebreaker. Rabinowitz 
then delved further into his personal failings, recounting 
how he forced a scientist into an awkward conversation 
during which he mentioned that he had gone to 
McDonalds. This statement prompted the scientist to 
respond, Did you get food there? 
He talked about how his hairy chest leads girls who 
take off his shirt to look betrayed: I have the face of 
a 14-year-old and the body of a 58-year-old. Im like a 
collage of the least sexy moments in a mans life.
Rabinowitz also mused on the concept of coolness: He 
recalled what was considered cool in elementary school, 
where Lunchables instantly made you friends and Capri 
Sun was the vodka of the playground.
Other highlights of his act included stories of a 
friend who humped a microwaved sandwich bag, of 
generational differences in dating culture, and of mens 
sexual preferences.
Rabinowitz ended his performance with an epic tale of 
how he prank called his alcoholic hockey-player friend 
and meowed at him while on the toilet, blaming the act 
on another friend of his. After three painstaking months 
of keeping this up, he was discovered because he forgot 
to use a fake name for the Gmail account from which he 
had sent the prank email. 
The second half of the show featured Kevin Barnett, 
another New York City comic. Like Rabinowitz, Barnett 
has appeared in various comedy festivals and ?lms, as 
well as on Comedy Central, MTV, and 
CollegeHumor.com. He also co-hosts a podcast and 
created a viral video sensation called Homo Thugs.
Barnetts style of comedy had more bravado than 
Rabinowitzs; his humor was more about his wins than 
his losses. Some of his humor revolved around racism 
and the African-American experience. His comedy had 
a faster pace, and consisted of a few long narratives 
interspersed with one-liners that segued into one 
another.
Barnett began with a story from his college years, when 
his friends slipped ecstasy into his drink despite his 
objections. What kind of a person crumbles drugs into 
another persons drink? A good friend, thats who! 
Barnett exclaimed, recounting how he had a wonderful 
night after taking the drugs.
Barnett then went on to topics such as free time, 
the misuse of slang, and the stupidity of children  
including stories about stupid kids he had overheard on 
a train, the joys of farting in a little girls face, and the 
satisfaction of insulting 10-year-olds on Xbox Live.
Barnetts jokes about racism included a story about how, 
while shopping for costumes for a costume party, he 
wanted to buy a wolverine costume that unfortunately 
had fake claws with white knuckles. He talked about his 
dream of running through a meadow with long ?owing 
hair like a white person.
Barnett also talked about the n-word and its power to 
make things more serious when added to the end of a 
sentence. At one point, Barnett asked a white member 
of the audience to use the word in a sentence, which she 
did with a great deal of hesitation.
Racist or homophobic friends comprised another 
common theme in Barnetts comedy. The highlight of 
Barnetts performance was his account of one his pranks, 
which left his homophobic friend Brandon believing he 
(Brandon) had performed a sexual act on a man.
Barnett also discussed his romantic life: Girls think that 
Im a weirdo creep. I just think its more entertaining 
to creep them out and scare them than to have sex 
with them. He ended his act with a description of his 
ridiculous OkCupid online dating pro?le.
At the end of the show, the audience seemed to favor 
Rabinowitzs misadventures over Barnetts comedy. We 
thought it was really funny, said ?rst-year saxophone 
performance major Laurel Beatty, who came to the show 
with ?rst-year mechanical engineering major Hope 
Dohner. I especially liked the ?rst one [Rabinowitz].
My favorite story was the meow one, Dohner added, 
referring to Rabinowitzs last story.
Some people seemed uncomfortable with a few of 
Barnetts race-based jokes. The ?rst guy [Rabinowitz] 
was really good. The second guys jokes seemed a bit 
racist, said ?rst-year Bachelor of Humanities and Arts 
student Marianthie Wank.
Regardless of who was the better comic, the show was 
very much a success, providing a number of lighthearted laughs after the intensity of House Wars.
Xiyu Wang | Staffwriter
Comedy show fuses two different styles
First-years favor Rabinowitzs self-deprecating humor over Barnetts race-centric comedy
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor
Above Left: Josh Rabinowitz charmed first-years with his self-deprecating approach to comedy. 
Above Right: Kevin Barnett addressed issues of racism and homophobia during his sketch.
Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

gaming
pillbox 08.26.137
Its been a long summer. Or at least, thats what people 
have told me. I havent really noticed myself, because 
the universe of video games has been expanding at a 
rapid pace. Or maybe it just seems that way because 
every time I look up from the screen, another six hours 
have passed.
With Nintendos Year of Luigi in full swing, Microsoft 
still not sure how it wants to present the Xbox One, and 
Sony leaning back in its chair and making all of the right 
moves by not making them, one would think that the 
time leading up to the holiday season would be slow for 
video games. 
But the expected summer doldrum isnt completely dull. 
A game has stood out from the crowd, something other 
than another sequel or an incredibly easy time waster. It 
tried something new and pushed some boundaries. This 
game is Rogue Legacy for PC, Mac, and Linux.
In most games, one expects to die, at least a few 
times. Given that the current shift in gaming (well, 
of the blockbuster variety) is toward a hand-holding 
approach, this expectation may soon fade away forever. 
But some games still embrace death. They dont care 
that you will struggle to progress and lose countless 
lives, restart from the same place over and over, and 
inevitably scream to the skies or smash your keyboard in 
frustration.
Rogue Legacy is one of those games. It is hard, 
sometimes brutally so, and unforgiving, but it is a new 
take on an old formula. The game wants you to die. In 
Legacy, you take on the role of a warrior storming a 
castle ?lled with the usual assortment of ghosts, ghouls, 
skeletons, and undead minions.
However, there are a couple of new additions to the 
tried-and-true setup. The ?rst is not a unique idea (in 
fact, more and more games are using this gimmick), but 
it does keep the game fresh. With each entrance of the 
castle, the ?oor plan changes, meaning you never see 
the exact same layout twice. 
The second is that after every death, the warrior dies 
permanently. Players are then taken to a screen where 
they are allowed to pick a descendant to pick up their 
fallen parents sword. These descendants all have a 
given genetic abnormality, termed a trait by the game: 
gigantism, which doubles the warriors strength and 
size; ADHD, which increases the warriors speed; or 
colorblindness, which causes the player to see the world 
in shades of gray.
These new features should lead to a fairly enjoyable 
gaming experience. However, the controls are 
imprecise and loose, which  coupled with the already 
unforgiving nature of the game  leads to a frustrating 
expirence, even allowing for enough time to get used to 
the controls. On top of this, the gold you collect in the 
castle  which you need to advance character stats and 
buy weapons, spells, and the like  is stolen from you as 
soon as you enter the castle. This is not a huge deal at 
the beginning, but as you level up and everything gets 
more expensive, this reveals itself as a crippling blow.
This is not to say these features totally ruin the game, 
but it does slow progress to a snails pace. More often 
than not, you will either lack good combinations of trait 
and class, or you wont ?nd your groove  or you just 
wont get lucky, plain and simple. Rogue Legacy has 
the potential to be a great game, but at a certain point, 
playing the game feels like smashing your head against 
a brick wall. Its worth playing, but be prepared to punch 
something. This game is old-school hard.
Ryan Black | Staffwriter
Rogue Legacy tests, torments its players
Summer video game release presents a serious challenge, even for experienced gamers
Andie Park | Junior Staffwriter
Written by best friends Ben Af?eck and Matt Damon, Good Will Hunting is a ?lm about 
a young Massachusetts Institute of Technology janitor, played by Damon, gifted with 
extraordinary genius yet struggles to ?gure out what kind of person he wants to be. 
While most Hollywood movies about a troubled and misunderstood character fall ?at, 
Good Will Hunting manages to be truly heartfelt and entertaining with magni?cent 
performances. Damon proves himself a real actor in this ?lm, bursting with charisma 
and precocious innocence. Its genuine Bostonian attitude also makes the ?lm 
irresistibly enjoyable.
Good Will Hunting
Friday, Aug. 30  7 p.m.
Saturday, Aug. 31   10 p.m.
Dead Poets Society
Friday, Aug. 30  9:30 p.m.
Saturday, Aug. 31  7:30 p.m.
Robin Williams showcases his tremendous versatility that spans beyond his comedic 
reputation, playing a teacher who inspires his students at a prim and proper boarding 
school through poetry. Its as powerful as it is uplifting, with a young ensemble of 
actors and a strong yet sentimental storyline. Director Peter Weir exhibits his own style 
that can elicit emotions without being arti?cially effusive in this inspirational ?lm.
dollarmovie
McConomy Auditorium, University Center

---------------------------------------------------

                  Kelsey Scott | Operations Manager and photos by Jonathan Carreon | Contributing Editor

---------------------------------------------------

PITTSBURGHCULTURALTRUST
STRICTLY LIMITED ENGAGEMENT
SEPTEMBER 3  29, 2013
BENEDUM CENTER
THE THRILLIS BACK!
Groups 15+ Tickets On Sale Now!
412-471-6930  |  TrustArts.org
The PNC Broadway Across America-Pittsburgh is a presentation of The Pittsburgh Cultural Trust, Pittsburgh Symphony and Broadway Across America. Disney
ACCESSIBLE 
SERVICES AVAILABLE
Broadway Season Ticket Holders Seats  are secured for next season!
The full season will be announced in early spring, but renewing season ticket holders seats are secured.
Offer valid at any one participating Total Rewards casino listed on speci?ed event dates only. Limit 2 tickets. You must be a registered hotel guest booked under offer code mentioned 
to participate in this offer. Reservations must be made at least 72 hours prior to event start date. Invitation is non-transferable and must be redeemed in person. Any attempt to sell, 
auction or otherwise transfer shall nullify this offer. No exchange, substitutions or trade-outs. Subject to availability and limited to one offer per quali?ed invitation. May not be combined 
with or redeemed within 48 hours of any other offer, event or promotion. Subject to hotel cancellation policies. Management reserves all rights and may modify, change or cancel this 
offer without notice. Additional restrictions may apply. Caesars Entertainment shall not be liable to any patron for any error in the information contained in the printed material herein 
related to the offer or the event. Trademarks used herein are owned by Caesars License Company, LLC and its af?liated companies.
Know When To Stop Before You Start. Gambling Problem? Call 1.800.522.4700.
2011, Caesars License Company, LLC. Caesars Entertainment welcomes those 21 years of age and older to our casinos.
The real csi - 
where TruTh is ofTen sTranger Than ficTion and The dead do Tell Tales
You and a guest are invited to a multimedia stage presentation that 
examines historys most fascinating crimes and unexplained deaths. 
Experts in their ?elds will take the audience behind the headlines and 
inside some of the most intriguing national and international crime 
scenes and murder investigations of the century. 
Be there as worldrenowned forensic pathologist Dr. Cyril Wecht. MD. 
JD. leads the discussion on the JFK assassination, leading criminologist 
Dr. Henry Lee studies the OJ Simpson case and attorney Mark Geragos 
examines the deaths of Laci Peterson and Michael Jackson. 
A round-table discussion of many more high-pro?le cases and a Q&A 
session will wrap up a night of murder and mystery, only at Paris Las 
Vegas. You cant miss it!
Disneys THE LION KING
September 3-29 | Benedum Center
SPANK! The Fify Shades Parody
September 19-21 | Byham Theater
The Rubber Duck Project
Launching September 27
Compagnie Marie Choiuinard
Saturday, September 28 | Byham Theater
Nanodanses  |  Kiss & Cry
October 2-4 | New Hazlett Theater
Celtic Thunder
Sunday, October 6  |  Benedum Center
The Pigeoning
October 9-12  |  937 Liberty
Its Dark Outside
October 9-12  |  Trust Arts Education Center
Zimmermann & de Perrot
October 18 & 19  |  Byham Theater
Measure Back
October 22-26  |  Baum Building
The God That Comes
October 24-26  |  Cabaret at Theater Square
We Will Rock You
October 29-November 3  |  Benedum Center
Sweet Honey In The Rock
Saturday, November 9  |  Byham Theater
Selling England By The Pound
Wednesday, November 13 | Byham Theater
Potted Potter
November 20-24  |  Byham Theater
The Three Sleuths
Wednesday, November 20  | Benedum Center
Elf The Musical
November 26-December 1 | Benedum Center
Straight No Chaser
Wednesday, December 11 | Benedum Center
TrustArts.org /StudentTickets
Call 412-471-6930 if you have any questions.
/ihia< !
Use promo code CMU1314
CMU students recieve up to a 50% discount off tickets to many shows! 

---------------------------------------------------

10music
pillbox 08.26.13
With the beginning of another season approaching 
fast, you would think that the Pittsburgh Symphony 
Orchestra (PSO) would be rehearsing away at 
Heinz Hall in the coming weeks  but actually, 
these musicians are nowhere near Pittsburgh at the 
moment. In fact, theyre on a different continent.
Music director Manfred Honeck is currently leading 
the orchestra on the European Festivals Tour, 
performing 11 concerts in ?ve countries. The PSO 
has been touring internationally since 1947, and 
its this international status that explains some of 
the musical gems of the PSOs upcoming 201314 
season.
Anticipation for this season is especially high 
because of recent ?scal events. According to the 
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review, the PSOs de?cit nearly 
tripled over the last ?scal year, presenting major 
concerns for the orchestras future. But in July, a 
Point Breeze couple donated $1.2 million to fund 
salary increases for PSO musicians, which should 
keep the orchestra a?oat in an economy that is 
increasingly unkind to organizations like the PSO.
As usual, the orchestra will start big this season. 
Last year, superstar pianist Lang Lang opened the 
season with a bang; this year, the Grammy Awardwinning and ever-popular Yo-Yo Ma will start off the 
year with a predictably explosive performance of 
Tchaikovsky on Sept. 27.
Yo-Yo Ma is probably the only household name 
to grace Heinz Hall this season, but the PSO will 
invite plenty of established talent back to its stage, 
along with a few lesser-known rising stars. Worldrenowned violinist Joshua Bell, who performed 
Bernstein with the orchestra last April, will return in 
late February to play Lalos Symphonie Espagnole. 
And of course, the orchestra never turns down 
an opportunity to showcase its own talent; PSO 
concertmaster and acclaimed violinist Noah BendixBalgley will perform Bruchs Scottish Fantasy with 
the orchestra in late October.
Soloists aside, the orchestra will also make a few 
gentle forays into experimental programming; every 
once in a while the PSO likes to spice things up by 
presenting a classic piece in an unconventional way. 
Although the orchestra will default to some solid 
orchestral classics like Carmina Burana and Mahlers 
Symphony No. 9, there are a few more creative 
programs in the series, such as the orchestras 
performance of Holsts The Planets in conjunction 
with a NASA ?lm. This season will also feature 
a new event, the Mozart Festival  a two-week 
program co-presented by the Pittsburgh Chamber 
Music Society and the PSO.
So far, the upcoming season shows promise. The 
PSO rarely disappoints in delivering world-class 
performances and inviting renowned soloists, and 
hopefully this season will be no different.
Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
PSO season shows promise
Symphonys 201314 series features variety, creativity
The Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestras international renown allows it to bring in star soloists like Yo-Yo Ma. 
File photo
201314 PSO Season
BNY Mellon Grand Classics Concerts
Oct. 4Oct. 6  Carmina Burana
Oct. 11Oct. 13  Honeck, Dvorak, and Mozart
Oct. 25Oct. 27  Noah Bendix-Balgley Plays   
   Bruch
__________________________________________________
Nov. 1Nov. 3  Russian Masterpieces
Nov. 8Nov. 10  Scheherazade
Nov. 29Dec. 1  Honeck, Beethoven, & a   
   Waltz Tradition
__________________________________________________
Dec. 6Dec.8  Honeck and the Tallis   
   Scholars
__________________________________________________
Jan. 17Jan. 19  Haydn & Zarathustra
Jan. 31Feb. 2  Bach, Beethoven, & Brahms
__________________________________________________
Feb. 7Feb. 9  The Planets with NASA Film
Feb. 21Feb. 23  Casella, Prokofiev, &   
   Schumann
Feb. 28March 2  Joshua Bell & Symphonie   
   Espagnole
__________________________________________________
March 21March 23 Highlights from The Ring
__________________________________________________
April 4April 6  Ravel & Debussy
April 25April 27  Mozart Festival Opens
__________________________________________________
May 2May 4  Mozart Festival Finale
May 30June 1  Vivaldis Four Seasons
__________________________________________________
June 6June 8  Mahler Symphony No. 9
June 13June 15  Strausss 150th Birthday
For more information on upcoming programs, visit 
pso.culturaldistrict.org.

---------------------------------------------------

comics
pillbox 08.26.1311
Kiltie As Charged by Charlie Shulman and Kairavi Chahal
cshulman@andrew.cmu.edu
Crinkled Comics by Juan Fernandez
jjfernan@andrew.cmu.educrinkledcomics.com

---------------------------------------------------

12comics
pillbox 08.26.13
Making It Better by Doghouse Diaries
doghousediaries@gmail.comthedoghousediaries.com

---------------------------------------------------

puzzles
pillbox 08.26.1313
Solutions from May 20
CrosswordEasy DifficultyHard Difficulty
Kakuro Puzzle: Easy Difficulty Sudoku Puzzle: Medium Difficulty
Sudoku courtesy of
www.opensky.ca/~jdhildeb/software/sudokugen/Kakuro courtesy of www.KrazyDad.com
Fill all empty squares using numbers 1 to 9 so the sum of 
each row equals the clue on its left, and the sum of each 
column equals the clue above it. No number may be used 
in the same row or column more than once.

---------------------------------------------------

14horoscopes
pillbox 08.26.13
1. Unwritten
2. Second letter of the Greek alphabet
3. Slang expert Partridge
4. Potassium nitrate
5. Involve
6. For ___ sake!
7. Historical chapters
8. Little drink
9. Unity
10. Valuable violin
11. Island near Sicily
12. Its a plus
13. Tally
21. Porous limestone
23. Crackerjack
25. New Zealand native
26. Teherans country
27. Shipping deduction
28. Blueprint detail
29. Little
32. Implements
33. Pellet of precipitation
34. Canadian gas brand
35. Harvest
36. Fish-eating eagle
38. Actress Sophia
42. Attitude
43. Having a sound mind
47. Equilibrium
48. More wise
49. Dumbstruck
50. Atari founder Bushnell
51. Climbing vine
52. Burning of anothers property
54. Relinquish
55. Put a lid ___!
56. Baltic capital
57. Nae sayer?
60. A Kennedy
1. Corpulent
6. Cancun coin
10. Latin 101 word
14. Aired again
15. ___ Brockovich
16. Not fem.
17. Inclined
18. Record
19. Too
20. Produces milk
22. Jaw
24. Name of 12 popes
25. Intervene
26. In and of ___
29. Freelancers encl.
30. Spellbound
31. Air
37. Staggering
39. Boat propeller
40. Stun gun
41. Cemetery
44. This ___ outrage!
45. Drum sound
46. Slanted
48. Pure
52. Hill dwellers
53. Install in a position
54. Makers
58. Festive occasion
59. Salt Lake City hoopsters
61. ___ boom
62. Actor McGregor
63. Fix up
64. English architect Jones
65. Actress Sofer
66. Idyllic place
67. Went after
ACROSSDOWN
Horoscopes
aries
march 21april 19
Fight for the classes you want. Dont let a silly waitlist stop 
you from getting in.
taurus
april 20may 20
Youd rather be traveling this semester  or at least, youd 
like to be in a different place. But dont worry, youll get to 
do it soon.
gemini
may 21june 21
Try not to get too distracted by that cute guy or girl in your 
class. Make a move early in the semester.
cancer
june 22july 22
Something big is going to happen, and its going to change 
you.
leo
july 23aug. 22 
Remember that blog you created and never updated? Now 
is the perfect time to start writing and stick to it.
virgo
aug. 23sept. 22
People will come to you for advice. Dont be afraid to be 
honest, even though it might come off as rude.
libra
sept. 23oct. 22
You might be stuck in a class of first-years this semester, 
but be open minded about it and youll make some great 
friends.
scorpio
oct. 23nov. 21
Dont stress too much about the first week of classes; itll 
be a breeze.
sagittarius
nov. 22dec. 21
Your classes might not seem connected, but try to 
incorporate what you learn from one class into another.
capricorn
dec. 22jan. 19
You need to pay extra attention in class this week so you 
dont miss something important.
aquarius
jan. 20feb. 18
Its only the first week of classes and youre already so 
busy, your friends feel left out. Slow down and go hang out 
with them.
pisces
feb. 19march 20
Dont jump too hastily into a new relationship. Spend some 
time getting to know each other first.
Kairavi Chahal | Comics Editor
Crossword courtesy of BestCrosswords.com

---------------------------------------------------

calendar 
pillbox 08.26.1315
TUESDAY8.27.13
Geographer with GMRLN. Altar Bar. 7 p.m.
San Francisco-based indie rock band Geographer will 
perform at the Altar Bar. For more information, visit 
thealtarbar.com.
Martial Canterel with Son of David and Model 
Human. brillobox. 9 p.m. 21+.
Sean McBride, also known as Martial Canterel, is a 
cold synth musician from Brooklyn, New York. For more 
information, visit brillobox.net.
THURSDAY8.29.13
Montgomery Gentry. Stage AE. 6:30 p.m.
Montgomery Gentry is an American music duo comprised 
of Kentucky-born vocalists Eddie Montgomery and Troy 
Gentry. For more information, visit stageae.com.
Pittsburgh Improv Jam. Cabaret at Theatre Square. 
10 p.m. 21+.
At this weekly late-night event, professional improvisers 
take the stage and perform comedic scenes inspired 
by audience suggestions. For more information, visit 
culturaldistrict.org.
SATURDAY8.31.13
Masters of the Universe! Altar Bar. 8 p.m.
Pittsburgh-based ska rock band Masters of the Universe! 
will perform at the Altar Bar. For more information, visit 
thealtarbar.com.
ONGOING
Teenie Harris: Focus on Hair. Carnegie Museum of Art. 
Through Sept. 15.
This sequel to a previous Teenie Harris exhibit at the 
Carnegie Museum of Art explores black hair and beauty 
as examined by the African-American photographer. For 
more information, visit cmoa.org.
Caldwell Linker: All Through the Night. 
Andy Warhol Museum. Through Sept. 15.
This exhibit presents a selection of photographs by 
Caldwell Linker, who uses his camera to capture LGBTQ 
individuals and events and to highlight the richness of the 
LGBTQ community. For more information, visit 
warhol.org.
Summer Flower Show. Phipps Conservatory and 
Botanical Gardens. Through Oct. 6.
The Summer Flower Show at Phipps incorporates 
glass artwork into the gardens, creating a colorful and 
whimsical fusion of the arti?cial and the natural. For more 
information, visit phippsconservatory.org.
Roads of Arabia. Carnegie Museum of Natural History. 
Through Nov. 3.
This exhibit transports visitors to the sands of Saudi 
Arabia, where recent archaeological ?nds are rede?ning 
our understanding of the region. For more information, 
visit cmnh.org.
UPCOMING
The Lion King. Benedum Center. Sept. 3 through Sept. 
11.
The Tony Award-winning Broadway adaptation of the 
beloved Disney classic will return to Pittsburgh, featuring 
favorite musical numbers such as Circle of Life and 
Elton Johns Can You Feel the Love Tonight. For tickets 
and more information, visit culturaldistrict.org.
Janine Antoni. Mattress Factory. Sept. 13 through 
March 30.
Margery King, the curator who ?rst introduced Yayoi 
Kusama to the Mattress Factory, presents the work 
of multimedia contemporary artist Janine Antoni, who 
focuses on issues of femininity and the female body. 
Admission to the museum is free with Carnegie Mellon 
student ID. For more information, visit mattress.org.
Alien She. Miller Gallery (Purnell Center for the Arts). 
Sept. 21 through Feb. 16.
This exhibit examines the in?uence of Riot Grrrl, an 
underground feminist punk rock movement that surfaced 
in the 90s, on artists and cultural producers today. 
Admission to the Miller Gallery is free and open to the 
public. For more information, visit 
millergallery.cfa.cmu.edu.
Compiled by Rachel Cohen | Pillbox Editor
Want your event here?
Email calendar@thetartan.org.

---------------------------------------------------

16gallery
pillbox 08.26.13
Kate Groschner | Photo Editor
Artists and art patrons alike ?ocked to Walnut Street for the 16th 
Annual Shadyside The Art Festival last Saturday. Top: Artist Cheryll 
Grogan, who specializes in house portraits, car portraits, and custom 
charts, stands in front of her work. Bottom: Festival patrons browse 
the art and other goods on view.
art festival.
