Special Election Issue II!
Volume 80, Number 25 
April 18, 1980TARTAN
Carnegie-Mellon University
Pittsburgh, PA 15213
Presidential Candidates
Being President 
of Student Govt 
would allow me 
to do what Ive 
been doing but 
even better.
JOHN ALEXANDER
1 am a candidate for Student Govern
ment President because I believe I am capa
ble of doing the best job of any of the 
candidates.
In the previous three years, throughout 
all the organizations Ive been a member, 
Ive shown leadership and initiative in all 
the tasks Ive undertaken. Let me give 
some examples:
As Vice-President of the Student Dorm 
Council, I contributed to the formation of 
the Housing Committee-a forum for dis
cussing problems and coming to solutions 
agreeable to BOTH the administration and 
students. We rewrote the Housing Contract 
to better define the rights and responsibi
lities of students and the University. I w 
worked to institute the Reading Day (be
fore finals) and extend finals from 4 to 5 
days to relieve some of the exam pressure.
I have demonstrated my organizational 
abilities by running the Activities Board for 
three semesters and in assisting in the plan
ing of Freshman Weekend for two years.
Ive dealt successfully with Warner Hall 
as an R.A, as a member of President 
Cyerts Student Advisory Council, and in 
helping to resolve the recent Food Service 
crisis, as well as several other, less volatile
projects Ive undertaken.
I do have ideas, goals, and specific 
things Id like to accomplish as President:
-A more involved Senate; As representtatives, Senators should be the most 
informed individuals on campus.
-Direct student representation on the 
Board of Trustees: We could then make the 
money managers aware of how much we 
need a Fine Arts Complex and a Student 
Union.
There are many facets of the college 
experience that are lacking and even dis
couraged here. I want this school to be 
more of a University (with its diverse ex
periences) and less of a trade school. There 
is much more to an education than acade
mia.
The position of Student Government 
President is vaguely defined of little or no 
power, yet great opportunity. Opportunity 
to be heard by our Student Government 
representatives and the administration to a 
greater extent than may any other student.
I think Ive demonstrated that I have 
represented the best interests of the stu
dent body.
Being President of Student Government 
would allow me to do what Pve been doing 
hut even better.
I use to think that a candidate could 
represent me better because he or she was 
in H&SS, Others believed that a candidate 
could represent them better because they 
belong to a particular dorm, social group 
or club. Hopefully most of us have tran
scended this, and realize that the best can
didate is one who is not afraid to go out 
and do something-whether it means having 
to be strong with faculty, administration 
and Trustees, or just working with other 
students to accomplish our goals. I be
lieve I have done enough to prove that I 
am capable of being Student Government 
President, and I do not think it is necessary 
to again list my accomplishments. I hope 
that when you vote, you realize that if you 
really want something done' around here, 
you have to have a President who asks for 
things and gets them done--a strong Presi
dent. Perhaps the easiest scenario to 
imagine is a Trustees meeting. When 
either John, Nina or myself have to go 
and ask for something the students want, 
who do you think wl have the greatest 
impact on the Trustees? I believe it is 
myself, and this time, I hope the majority 
of you realize this too.
I hope that you 
vote, you realize that if 
you want something 
done around here, you 
need a President who 
asks for things and 
gets them done  
STUART SCHLISSERMAN
We cannot 
afford to waste 
the valuable 
time needed to 
train a President.5 ?
NINA HOUSKA
I have worked with others to change 
Senate from a group of resume seekers 
to a body that is willing to take stands on 
important issues. The recent elections, 
however, caused the administration's and 
the students opinions of Senate to be 
seriously damaged. This has caused both 
GSO and SDC to consider breaking away 
from Senate. If this trend continues, the 
administration may decide to take away the 
students privilage of distributing our own 
activities fee and possibly disolve Senate.
I feel that I could pull student govern
ment back together. I am currently Vice 
Chair of Senate, and a member of an adhoc committee of Senate that is working 
on constitutional changes concerning the 
student government structure and the elec
tion process. The latter is a move to try 
and keep the different organizations from 
keep the different organizations from 
breaking away if a strong enough President 
takes over to implement them.
I have also been chair of the General 
Campus and Information committee, a 
member of SDC, founder of COCO 
(commuter club), and worked with the 
GSO. These and UFO are the 
organizations that represent the student 
body and the ones that the President 
works with. I am the only candidate 
that has the experience of working with 
these groups. Observing a tody from 
the outside cannot tell you how it operates 
internally. We cannot afford to wast the 
valuable time needed to train a President.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2 - TARTAN - April 18,1980Senate
JOANN LAWTON 
CIT
How many times have you, your room
mate, or a good friend of yours, come up 
with a really terrific idea concerning some 
campus affair? Did you ever wonder if 
Student Senate had considered your plan? 
Well, if you didnt, you should have. 
Senate needs student imput in order to 
best serve our needs. 1 feel that this is one 
of the most important aspects of our stu
dent government since it is the interaction 
of the students and their governing body 
that makes it all worthwhile. As a senator, 
1 would like to promote student involve
ment with Senate. I want to do my part by 
making your voice heard in Student 
Senate.
AMS
Hi! My name is James Orrico and I am 
running for one of the AMS seats in Stu
dent Senate. I am concerned about the 
Senate and feel that ! could serve the stu
dents of AMS and CMU as a whole. It is 
my desire to solidify the campus and pro
mote unity between the colleges.
MIKE FRYD 
CIT
First of all, I want to admit that I real
ize I did poorly in the Mass. primaries. 
However I attribute this to the fact that 
there are so few CIT people in Mass. com
pared to Democrats and Republicans. I 
would also like to point out that there 
is absolutely no truth to the rumor that 
I told Ronald Reagan his duck joke.
I realize that Carter doesnt like us to 
talk about it but, I pray for the release 
of the hostages every night. I also have 
prayers concerning the Ayatollah but I 
shouldnt get into those here.
Some of the competition has resorted 
to mud-slinging by making allegations con
cerning my sanity. Let me end the contro
versy right now by saying that I am sane 
and I have the papers the doctors gave 
me to prove it.
We should definitely have someone 
look into the feasibility of adding sham
poo dispensers to all the showers out
side the labs in Science Hall.
1 will continue to publicly deny all re
ports of me paying for votes. Anyone 
who may want further information on 
this subject is encouraged to meet me in 
private.
KEVIN J. KELLY 
CIT
If you want a Senator who speaks loud 
and carries a little stick, then vote for a few 
of these other characters. But if you need 
a Senator with a representative voice of 
the students and carries a big stick, then 
Kevin Kelly is your only choice. He has 
been a viable part of the CMU community 
doing many of the behind the scenes tasks 
that all too often are taken for granted 
which serve as an integral part of your life 
it CMUAs students, we are all naturally con
cerned about academic life and financial 
stability. Kevin Kelly shares these concerns 
with you and represents a positive force for 
the students.. Seek him out during the 
week. We were successful a few weeks ago; 
this is our chance to secure his position 
again. Make the wise choice. On April 23 
or 24
MCSI would like tu sec greater involvement 
by the general student body in more cam
pus activities. If elected, 1 would try to start 
activities which could be run by any stu
dent not just those who are members of 
certain committees. I believe that this 
would help reduce apathy and get people 
more involved in what's going on at C MU.
RAY PLANINSIC
MCS
Because C MU is a private institution, 
its administration does not have to be as 
responsive to its students. At a state 
institution, the administration is under 
substantial public pressure to more ade
quately fulfill its students' needs. I believe 
that this discrepancy is the major cause 
for the apathy that encompasses this 
campus. We passively accept a nun-unified 
student body with a dismal morale. There
fore, we must work harder with the administation to promote this unification. 
H>r three years I have witnessed a dormant 
student senate with representatives seek
ing only to pad their resumes.
MARK J. FISHER 
CIT
I would like to represent CIT on Stu
dent Senate because I believe that there 
are certain key issues on campus to be ad
dressed which are not receiving the atten 
tion they require.
Food Service is often a source of prob
lems on campus. Considering the dgree to 
which UFS depends on student participa
tion, a student voice shouldnt go unheard. ,
The fire alarm system in Morewood must <
be examined thoroughly and any prob
lems must be resolved. There is too much 
adversity among the various colleges on 
this campus, and something must be done 
to encourage a unified CMU spirit.
Too many people consider Student Sen
ate a circus. There is a potential to have 
a strong positive effect on campus life. It 
remains the responsibility of the voters to 
select qualified candidates to fulfill this ^ 
potential.
VOTE
RICH MUELLtK 
AMS
My name is Rich Mueller and I am run
ning for an AMS seat in the Student Se
nate. I feel I can help all Carnegie-Mellon 
students if I am elected in the Senate. I 
want to help make the Student Senate a 
more responsible organization so that 
actual work can be done for the benefit of 
the students. All students should be aware 
of what is going on around campus, but 
few do. I want to convince these people 
to become active, and a seat in the Senate
DAVID HUCHETTE 
CIT
My biggest reason for wanting to be
come a senator is to enable the students of 
the universtiy to be honestly represented. I 
would always be willing to listen to any 
student with a problem or a solution to 
a present problem. After all, the students 
make up this universtiy and therefore 
should have their voices heard. I will give 
students a voice in the universtiy commu
nity because I believe they know what 
will make CMU a better place. Im running 
for Senate because I believe I can provide 
students a valuable voice in student govern
ment.
MARK FOUST 
AMS
Hello, my name is Mark Foust and I am 
running for Student Senate from AMS. As 
a sophomore, I have seen many of the good 
and bad things that have happened and I 
want to try to improve this school as much 
as I can. I feel that the students have to get 
more involved and we need more activities 
and better films and concerts. With the 
kind of money we pay to attend CMU, we 
should be getting not only a good educa
tion, but also a fun and interesting place to 
live in. I want to get involved in Student 
Senate to try to improve CMU in anyway
CIT
As a student senator I will focus my 
energies toward the social aspects of Carnegie-Mellon University. I will try to get 
more funding for university-sponsored ent
ertainment. I will try to form a student 
Co-Op. And I will work towards forming a 
student union to boost and unify social 
activities on camnus

---------------------------------------------------

April 18, 1980 - TARTAN - Page 3Candidates
CIT
I.ve been studying and living here at 
CMU for the last two years. Ive always 
kept an I dont want to get involved 
attitude. Then, I attended the Special Se
nate meeting at which they decided to 
rerun this election. I saw and heard alot of 
things I didnt like and could hardly 
believe. So, for once, Ive decided to do 
something about it rather than just com
plaining. If elected as CIT Senator, IT1 
work to get the really important and per
tinent issues in front of the Senate that 
are bothering the students of CIT.
/\l |\ *I \ ' /'i\ - / i
DOUGLAS CARNEY 
CFA
As I see it, there are three major prob
lems confronting the Senate: Graduate 
Student Organizations proposal to with
draw from Senate, the increased activities 
fee, and student involvement in govern
ment.
I feel that a secession by the G.S.O. 
would create a divide in student govern
ment that would serve to impair the effect
iveness of both the Senate and G.S.O. My 
advice to the G.S.O. is that change from 
within is more effective, while the Senate 
should examine the causes for concern by 
the G.S.O.
With the increase in the activities fee al
ready passed, I think it will become very 
important that the Senate be careful to 
insure that the increased funds are used 
to best serve the student body.
Student involvement has been a prob
lem in the past. 1 would hope that Senate, 
through strong stands on current issues, 
would both promote student feedback and 
inform the community of our positions as 
a student body.
JAMES M. COLLYER 
CFA
I am currently a senator from Fine Arts 
on the academic affairs committee. I hope 
to continue to serve the Fine Arts commu
nity for another term.
NANCY CROSBIE 
CIT
Just as the city of Pittsburgh has under
gone a renaissance, it is now time for the 
students of CMU to follow suit by starting 
their own renaissance of enthusiasm and 
spirit in all facets of the campus communi
ty. I believe that the optimism and concern 
that I bring to Senate will make this new 
perspective on the 80s possible. I have 
served on student governments for the 
majority of my life and I bring the qualities 
of dedication and determination to office.
By my choice of a double major in Elec 
trical Engineering/Public Policy, you can 
see that I want to keep track of specific 
people oriented issues while learning solid 
engineering. I believe that working for you 
on Senate would allow the engineering/ 
public policy knowledge I gain to assist my 
ability in solving campus related problems. 
Vote for a new perspective on the 80s~ 
vote Nancy Crosbie for CIT Senator.
MICHAEL HERSKOVITZ 
AMS
Like most students, I am sometimes be
wildered by the positions that the Student 
Senate takes on controversial issues. I read 
my TARTAN wondering if the person who 
holds the seat for my college truly repre
sents my views. The Student Senate was 
formed to serve the entire student body, 
thats why I want to be your Student Sena
tor. I'm affiliated with no special interest 
group or organization; Im ready to listen 
to any issue with an open-mind. If I am 
elected I wont berate you with phrases 
like get involved, thats my job. If you 
want a Senator whos not afraid to speak 
his mind, then vote for me. Its time we 
had an open-minded, representative Senate, 
Ill do my best to give one to you.
ART BENJAMIN
MCS
I would like to continue representing 
MIS on Student Senate. Essentially here 
is what I would like to accomplish as a 
Senator: 1 ) improve food service con
ditions, 2) express my opinion on regis
tration and the draft,'3) see that Student 
Activities fee money is well distributed to 
benefit students, 4) oppose wasteful 
procedures in the Senate (such as impeach
ing a Senate officer whose term has only a 
month left), 5) and greatly increase the 
communication between the Senate and 
the student body. Senators should com
municate with students as frequently as 
possible to find out where they stand on 
the important Senate issues. Since this is 
only my freshman year, I plan to achieve 
all of my goals in the years to come, 
starting NOW!
LYNN YANYO 
CIT
I am a new candidate for Senator from 
CIT. After attending several Senate meet
ings and recently participating in the Elec
tion Recall Hearing, I became disgusted 
with the present-workings of Senate. There 
is a definite deficiency in cooperation and 
contribution among senators.
For three years, as both a commuter 
and dorm resident, I have become well 
aware of the red tape, run-around, and im
personal lack of concern of the administra
tion. In good conscience I cannot stand 
by and let this continue. I am willing to 
spend the time and effort needed to make 
Senate work for a change.
Senate is finally taking itself seriously 
by realizing its mistakes and rerunning 
the elections. It shouldnt stop here. If 
youd like to see a worthwhile Senate,
DAVID OLSEN
MCS
I would like to remain on the Student 
Senate because I enjoy helping to get 
things done on this campus. From exper-. 
ience, I find it easier to get things done 
with the backing of an organization such 
as the Student Senate and it would be eas
ier to get things done with a title such as 
student senator. Serving and aiding peo
ple also makes me happy.
Speaking and interacting in as many 
ways as possible appears only natural for 
most students, but should be demanded of 
student senators. I believe that all students, 
especially student senators, should attempt 
to discover and satisfy the desires of other 
students.
I also believe that the student senate and 
therefore, the student senators should be 
as open as possible. This may all sound 
well and good, but, not carry much weight 
due to lack of example; so her goes:
Before becoming a member of student 
senate, I looked into where the money 
which had not been deposited into ValiDine accounts actually was. I am beginning 
to become satisfied by the answers I have 
been receiving. I also attempted to have 
the doorknobs which were stolen by one 
of the auxiliary services from the main 
doors of both Boss and McGill Hall re
placed. 1 am also an SDC representative, 
but have been less active due to a class 
conflict with meetings.
Since becoming a student senator, I 
have become an active member of the fi
nance committee and the draft information 
dissemination committee.
Thus, I would like to remain senator so 
as to better serve the students of C-MU by 
listening to their desires and trying to satis
fy them.
STEVEN SMITH 
CIT
I am running for Student Senate be
cause I feel that I can help improve the 
campus and student life. First and fore
most, we need a student union, complete 
with office space for all student organiza
tions, lounges, meeting rooms, game 
rooms, a Rathskeller, etc. Im also in favor 
of new athletic facilities and a performing 
arts building. These essentials, which other 
colleges and universities take for granted, 
are sorely lacking at CMU.
As a senator, I would encourage unity 
and pride on campus. There are no all 
campus activities to speak of. Those that 
do exist, like Spring Carnival, are conglo
merations of separate groups. I would like 
to help plan an activity for the whole 
campus to participate in. For these goals, 
I need two things: your vote and your 
suggestions.
PETER FINE
MCS
$20 of yours will be the contribution 
for an increased Activities Fee (Did you 
know that?) next year. Do you know 
how it will be spent? I would like to let 
all the students know what Student Senate 
accomplishes, and how it allocates the 
students money. We might find wed like 
some changes made.
If youre concerned with the danger of 
FIRE in Morewood, or hot water in 
Donner, or would like to see more con
certs on campus, then Im with you.
My stance may not be one of the typi
cal politician, but if you would like to see 
some life pumped into campus activities, 
and be better informed about how things 
get done or just would like to see some real 
student opinions put into action, please 
vote for me.
VOTE 
March 23 
or 24 
in Skibo

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4 - TARTAN - April 18, 1980
JANICE DAVIS 
H&SS
My name is Janice Davis. I am a junior 
majoring in Economics/AMS. Ive decided 
to run for Student Senate because I believe 
its in dire need of capable, responsible, 
and dedicated people. Too often we hear 
from candidates who say they really want 
to be available to hear students com
plaints. Thats fine, but in order to get 
results, one must do more than just listen. 
One must act. Im willing to work hard and 
dedicate myself to the causes of rectifying 
students grievances and of restoring com
petence and respect to Student Senate.
Instead of complaining about the 
problems at CMU and criticizing the Stu
dent Senate for its inability to solve them, 
I believe we need an unapathetic and deter
mined person who can take the initiative 
to remedy those problems. Im ready and 
willing to be that person.
RICK SABOL 
H&SS
As a sophomore, majoring in Public 
Policy and Management/Applied History, I 
have been around on this campus for near
ly two years and have witnessed an apa
thetic attitude that Im sure is no secret to 
you. The lack of student involvement in 
campus activities (including Student Sen
ate elections), the absence of an organized 
movement for the betterment of University 
Food Service and the seemingly non-exis
tent calls for an administration more 
directly responsive to the student body are 
all indicitive of the unconcerned feelings 
held by many.
However, these are problems that can be 
overcome with a new found interest in 
CMU, not necessarily as a university, but 
as a community of which all of us are 
members. With your help, in the form of 
increased interest, I believe I can make a 
difference by trying to make CMU a bet
ter place for each of us to live and learn.
. .  ^ . v.  '.v' .v.-v.'-. --For your convenience, here is a sum
mary of the Student Senate Candidates.
CIT (Vote for 6)
LynnYanyo 
Mark J. Fisher 
Maynard A. Holliday*
Joann Lawton 
Mary Jo Lusnak 
Steven Smith 
Nancy Crosbie*
James L. Issac*
Mike Fryd 
David Huchette 
Kevin Kelly 
Raymond Mialki 
Henry Thorne
CHRISTINE DEVEAU 
CFA
Two and a half years ago (Nov. 1977) I 
petitioned to fill a vacant seat in the Col
lege of Fine Arts. I served on the Rules 
Committee as Vice Chairperson. The sec
ond term, I was elected Vice Chairperson 
of the Senate. During that term of office 
I was an ex-officio member on all commit
tees of Senate having a vote in each. I co
ordinated the committees and served in 
place of the chairperson in his absence.
My sophomore year I switched majors 
from acting to musical theatre and have 
had to overload for the past two years. 
Because of this I did not run again. Next 
year I will have the lightest load in four 
years. 1 feel that I was an objective Sen
ator three years ago. I tried to look at the 
issue from all sides. I have no conflicts of 
interest. Even though I am a member of a 
sorority I believe that I represent my con
stituency, not UFO. I feel that I was a 
strong Senator then and have the exper
ience and desire to again represent the 
College of Fine Arts well.
FELICIA PRATTO 
H&SS
Hello, CMU. I would like to introduce 
myself as a candidate for Student Senate, 
H&SS. I am an H&SS freshman from 
Greensboro, NC who plans on doublemajoring in sociology and physics. If 
Im not in your classes, you may rec
ognize me from H&SS SAC gatherings, 
Philosophy club meetings, Scotchn Soda 
productions, the Pittsburgh Oratory.
In the past month, talk about the Senate-student communication gap, the inabil
ity of Senate to control its proceedings, 
and the need for examination of the Sen
ate bylaws has been raised. However, the 
March 4 meeting was just as stagnent as the 
previous ones.
I would like to freshen Senate activity 
by knowing student opinion on important 
issues, providing ample opportunity for 
your input, and practicing care in voting.
Although I am only in my second sem
ester at CMU, I am more than adequately 
equipped to serve as Senator, By attending 
meetings of various organizations and keep
ing informed of campus happenings, I have 
prepared myself for office. Since I strong
ly believe in particepation in government, I 
am experienced in student, youth and com
munity campaigns. I am knowledgable 
about university proceedings as I have lived 
on campuses all my life. I am experienced, 
prepared, concerned, and conscientious.
MCS (Vote for 3)
Mark Wright 
Wayne Jackson* 
Peter Fine 
Art Benjamin 
David Zalkin 
David Olsen 
Ray Planinsic
RICH HANUSEK 
CFA
Rich Hanusek is running for Student 
Senate because he is concerned. Concer
ned about an excess of apathy in CFA. 
Apathy that keeps students uninvolved and 
detracts form our college experience. Rich 
is taking a personal step to combat this ap
athy. He has decided to become involved 
by committing his time to work for you 
in Student Senate.
Rich has always followed the issues that 
confront our University. The divisions that 
pit school against school, and organization
against organization on campus. He be
lieves that instead of splitting into conflic
ting special interest groups, the different 
Campus organizations should work toge
ther for the common good of all.
Rich is really glad to see that there are 
more candidates for the Senate in CFA in 
this election. He hopes that this represents 
a new wave of involvement in both the 
school and the University. So be con
cerned, cast your vote caretully, and please 
cast a vote for Rich Hanusek. He wants 
to work for you.
H&SS (Vote for 2)
Gina Crockett*
Peter John Licata 
Janice Davis 
Mary Rudy Watson 
Felicia Pratto J 
Rick Sabol
AMS (Vote for I)
Rich Mueller 
Patrick McNamara* 
James Orrico 
Michael Herskovitz 
Mark Faust 
Gail Davidson
CFA (Vote for 4)
James Coliyer 
Douglas Carney 
Cristine Deveau 
Rich Hanusek
*These candidates did not turn in a 
statement to the TARTAN for pub
lication.
.. more Senate Candidates
MARY RUDY"WATSON 
H&SS
As a sophomore double-majoririg in 
Public Policy and Management and Applied 
History, 1 am greatly interested in political 
science. The Student Senate provides ex
periences that, 1 hope will give me further 
understanding of legislative actions. 1 am 
concerned that problems pertaining to stu
dents are solved in a rational manner and 
feel that through this concern I will be a 
strong representative.
A representative should be trustworthy, 
hard working, and organized. I will strive 
to fulfill these requirements.
MARK WRIGHT 
MCS
No, you dont know this guy. Im new, 
a transfer, but I think I can use this to your 
advantage in Student Senate. I havent 
made CMU a habit yet. I was involved at 
other schools and I saw what worked there. 
Rather than seeing only the CMU problems 
that directly affect me, Ive seen things 
CMU lacks that other schools have. Things 
like athletic facilities and student unions.
I have formed several opinions. 1 like 
the Vali-Dine system. It makes food service 
work for your food dollar. However, food 
service needs more competition to keep 
them honest. Funny, no one has mention
ed using the Margaret Moorision store 
fronts for some private food establishment.
Let me think....student apathy, more re
sponsive government, more for the stu
dents. Yes, these are problems 1 would 
like to work on, but the arguments are 
always the same. They are probably 
given in most of the. other candidates 
speeches.
Im interested, Ill work, Im new. Try 
me.
JOHN LICATA 
H&SS
I, John Licata, announce my candidacy 
for Student Senate from H&SS. I intend to 
expose Student Senate as the powerless 
joke that it has become. What has the orga
nization done for H&SS? Their funds allo
cation has not been favorable for H&SS 
students. They have not promoted the 
value of a liberal arts eduacation to either 
the students or the money worshippers in 
Warner Hall who refrain from allocating 
money for causes the students consider 
worthy. 1 refuse to vegetate like past Sena
tors, but rather use what little funds are 
given us efficiently. Liberal arts is the 
trademark of great universities. I will fight 
to use the miniscule power Student Senate 
has to further our cause. Lets try to 
change Student Senate from the laughing 
stock of the entire student body to. a 
representative student government. Please 
vote for me, Big John, for Student 
Senate.
