|bbhinside W
1 The Tartan
FEATURES................. Page 11
An interview with Bill Elliott, and fash
ion Dos and Donts for fall
SPORTS..................Page 20
Volume 82, Issue 7 Carnegie Mellon University October 13,1987The football team got rocked but the 
soccer and volleyball squads are on a roll
The Tartan will not be pub
lished next week due to mid-semester break. It will return Oc
tober 27. We hope you enjoy 
your day off!
FEAT AT URS U. PES aSRPAgePAUR OSaA2ST AR PES 0UEShPr tegg nhARPweiARl TPoOAUb
Art Department Plans ImprovementsSenate Adopts Constitution Despite Protest
pUPERShur sewSO 
pAhlS dSnge2SwSRP
pr xtdkmF-Itcd x7Wycd
Tartan Staffwriter
MCS Dean, Robert Sekerka appointed Axel 
Bothner-by temporary Chemistry Depart
ment head last Tuesday, November 5.
As of September 4, former department head 
Robert Birge and his department administra
tor Nancy Jenkins were suspended after ex
ternal accounts associated with the Chemistry 
Department were discovered. Sekerka had 
been taking care of the Chem. administration.
Fred Rogers, Vice President for Business 
Affairs, declined to comment on the status of 
the Chemistry Department audit.
Bothner-by, a Harvard grad., will remain 
here until a new head can be found. However, 
Bothner-by is no stranger to CMU. He was 
the first Dean of MCS after it became a 
separate college from CIT.
Bothner-by was introduced to students in 
the Chemistry Department last Thursday. 
Sekerka will appoint a search committee for a 
new department head sometime this week.
1
Mini Miracle Mile
WeTP jhAOerf -2PUSh !f PES 
hUPEShT U. FESPe Af PES TATPShT U. 
1enne /gnEe FESPef eRO PES TAT8
PShT U. 0SgPe 0SgPe 0SgPe heATSO 
UaSh LGfG== .Uh 2EehAPrb
FES wURSr \Agg lU PU mPoOSRPT 
/leARTP >ogPAngS m2gShUTATf xEAg8
OhSRT tUTnAPegf eRO PES 1ehSR 
vUERTUR /TPEwe jUoROePAURb 
1ehSR vUERTUR \eT UPE e TATPSh 
eP 1enne /gnEe FESPe eRO e gAPPgS 
TATPSh eP FESPe Ab
mEU\R eP gS.PC / TATPSh U. 0SgPe 
0SgPe 0SgPe 2UggS2PT wURSr AR 
.hURP U. 0UEShPr teggb
pr cdkx Mb Wc7WkcFFc
Tartan Assistant News Editor
The Carnegie Mellon Department of 
Art has taken steps to eliminate some of 
the safety hazards that were identified last 
month. Dean of Fine Arts, Akram Midani 
and Art Department Head, Orville Winsand met Wednesday with Vice President 
for Business Affairs, Frederick Rogers 
and Director of University Operations, 
Michael Corletti to discuss improve
ments that could be made.
Before the meeting, Winsand noted 
three areas which needed major renova
tions: ventilation, plumbing, and light
ing. He also described several smaller 
changes that would be made.
Winsand stressed that the department 
was aware of some of the safety problems 
before Monona Rossol gave a lecture on 
hazards several weeks ago. She recom
mended several techniques to improve 
conditions in the studios. Winsand con
ceded that some of the problems she iden
tified were a surprise to him.
continued on page 5
pr cdkx Mb Wc7WkcFFc
Tartan Assistant News Editor 
Though three senators were opposed to it, the 
Student Senate adopted a new constitution at 
its last meeting.
dogST xUwwAPPSS xEeAhweR mESn pUTPAR 
described the changes that had been made in 
the document. Some of the changes were 
cosmetic: the elimination of the hyphen in 
Camegie-Mellon and spelling and grammar 
corrections.
Other changes were more substantial. The 
by-laws were incorporated into articles of the 
constitution; The position of assistant treas
urer was eliminated: The Executive Commit
tee of the senate was defined. Also, the 
constitution bars an impeached president from 
re-election.
Two additional changes, however, were 
unacceptable to former Rules Chairman Allen 
Greenberg. He objected to the elimination of 
the Funding and Recognition Committees cochairman and a clause that penalizes Senators 
for missing office hours.
Greenberg said the elimination of the cochairman showed a lack of realism on the 
part of the Rules Committee. Tamal Mukherjee, Funding and Recognitions current chair
man, responded that he had trained four co2EeAhwSR AR eT weRr TSwSTPShTb pUTPAR eOOSO 
that all committees can add a vice chairman if 
they desire.
Greenberg also objected to the penalty for 
senators who miss three consecutive office 
hours without being excused for their absence.
continued on page 5
Incidents
committee members might hamper the inves
tigation. As it stands, he explained, we are 
getting a number of conflicting reports on 
exactly what did happen during pledge night at 
the fraternities. Some people say this or that 
happened to so and so, and then others say, 
No, that never really happened. So the com
mittee members are staying pretty much lowkey. Were not out to get anybody. We just 
want to get to the truth.
Asked about the reports from the sororities 
concerning ATO incidents, Todd said, The 
reports are coming in bits and pieces, but they 
all seem to collaborate one another.
A report of the investigation is still not 
completed, but is projected to be ready later 
this week, possibly in time for an IFC meeting 
scheduled this Wednesday.
IFC Investigates ATO
pr vcjj t/ydkWW/
Tartan Staffwriter
An investigation prompted by the Inter 
Fraternity Council (IFC) concerning reports 
of disorderly conduct and assault involving 
several unidentified Alpha Tau Omega 
(ATO) brothers during pledge night on Fri
day, September 25, is still in progress.
The most severe incident under investiga
tion is a fight that erupted between ATO and 
^ Delta Upsilon (DU) brothers on the ATO 
porch which resulted in the injury of two DU 
brothers. Eric Dusenbury, president of DU, 
said both brothers were pretty much better, 
but they still declined to comment on the fight 
itself.
Ron Campana, Greek Advisor, also de
clined to comment, feeling the situation de
served confidentiality on the grounds of pos
sible disciplinary action. He would not specu
late on the nature of such action until the 
investigation was completed.
The investigation itself was divided into two 
different categories: one concerning the frater
nities, and the other concerning the sororities. 
DU brother Todd Tomczeck (Chief Court Jus
tice for the IFC) explained, Since one of the 
major incidents of the investigation involved 
DU, it had to be split to avoid any possible bias. 
So a committee composed of brothers from 
three neutral houses was formed to probe into 
the incidents involving the fraternities [primar
ily the DU incident], and I was assigned the task 
of looking into ATO incidents over at the 
sororities.
Todd stated that revealing the identities of the

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2The TartanOctober 13,1987/
U.S. Helicopters Sink 
Three Iranian Ships
WASHINGTON (AP)  Pentagon officials 
disclosed Thursday that U.S. helicopters were 
fired on around sunset by Iranian patrol boats 
and that the Americans returned the fire, sink
ing three small patrol boats in the vicinity of 
Farsi Island in the Persian Gulf.
U.S. military spokesman Fred Hoffman said 
at a news conference that there were no U.S. 
casualities, and no damage to the U.S. heli
copters reported during the incident involving 
Iranian gunboats.
He wouldnt say how many helicopters were 
involved in the incident.
Two of the Iranian survivors are reported in 
serious condition, the spokesman said.
The incident took place in international 
waters about 20 miles from Farsi Island.
According to the sources, one helicopter, 
patrolling from a frigate, fired back, sinking all 
three of the small boats, the sources said.
According to the sources, however, the 
American helicopters were out flying a routine 
surveillance patrol when they were fired upon 
by Iranian gunboats.
We were fired on first, said one source. 
We were on a routine patrol and did nothing 
provocative.
The sources declined to say whether the 
helicopters were Army, Navy or Marine air
craft.
Panel Will Seek CeaseFire in El Salvador
SAN SALVADOR, El Salvador (AP)The 
government of President Jose Napoleon Du
arte and leftist rebels ended a two-day meeting 
last week with an agreement to form a com
mission to seek a cease-fire in the 8-year-old 
civil war.
In statements issued after the negotiations, 
rebel leaders raised doubt that the commission 
could bring about a cease-fire because of the 
differences.
Duarte said that if the commission fails, he 
will assume a historic challenge and ask his 
armed forces to declare a unilateral cease-fire.
The communique was read by Monsignor 
Arturo Rivera Damas, the Roman Catholic 
Archbishop of San Salvador, at the end of a 
marathon 15-hour negotiating session.
The talks marked the first time in three years 
the two sides had met officially. Their last 
meeting ended in discord on Nov. 30, 1984.
Both sides achieved the limited goals they
had set for themselves. Duarte, whose gov
ernment is backed by the United States, got the 
insurgents to agree to seek a cease-fire within 
the framework of the peace accord.
The cease-fire commission, to be made up of 
four members each from the government and 
an umbrella organization representing five 
armed guerrilla groups, will have until Nov. 4 
to present its first report, and another 120 days 
to complete its work.
That timetable coincides with the require
ments for a cease-fire established by a Central 
American peace plan signed by the presidents 
of five countries in Guatemala on Aug. 7.
China Bans Foreign 
Contact with Tibet
BEIJING (AP)  Communications with Ti
bet were cut last week and authorities moved 
to keep foreigners from entering the remote 
Himalayan region as it marked the 37th an
niversary of Chinese Communist rule.
Western journalists covering independence 
unrest in Tibet were accused of violating re
porting rules and ordered to leave Tibet, offi
cial Chinese media said Thursday.
Officials adopted measures to keep for
eigners from entering Tibet, a reversal from 
Chinas policy of promoting the region of 2 
million people as a tourist attraction.
Chinese authorities took extensive precau
tions this week to avoid a repetition of last 
Thursdays independence protest, in which 
2,000 Tibetans burned a police station and at 
least 14 people were killed.
More than 1,000 extra security police were 
moved into Lhasa, a city of310,000, to prevent 
further demonstrations. Roadblocks were set 
up around Buddhist monasteries whose mem
bers led protests Thursday and Sept. 27. Doz
ens of monks were rounded up.
Coup Leader Declares 
Fiji a Republic
SUVA, Fiji (AP)  Coup leader Col. Sitiveni Rabuka last week formally declared Fiji 
a republic and vowed to maintain the political 
dominance of ethnic Fijians over the larger 
Indian population.
Rabuka said Fiji, 2,000 miles northeast of 
Sydney, Australia, would have a new consti
tution to replace the one that took effect when 
it gained independence from Britain in 1970.
Since the coup, Rabuka has declared himself 
head of state, scrapped the constitution and 
dismissed Governor-General Ratu Sir Penaia 
Ganilau, who held executive powers as repre
sentative of the British crown.
Britain has rejected the actions and said it 
still regarded Ganilau as Fijis sole authority. 
Fiji has been a member of the British Com
monwealth, which includes Britain and its 
former colonies.
Senate Opposition To 
Judge Bork Totals 53
WASHINTON (DJ)  Judge Robert Bork, 
who said he is remaining a candidate for a seat 
on the Supreme Court, said he harbored no 
illusion about winning the fight.
But, he added, there should be a full debate 
and a final Senate decision.
Bork met with President Reagan Friday af
ternoon amid speculation that he would ask 
that his name be withdrawn.
He said he was remaining the nominee in or
der to return dignity and integrity to the proc
ess of choosing judges.
He said opponents of his nomination had 
misrepresented his judicial philosophy.
The number of senators who said they op
pose the Supreme Court nomination of Robert 
Bork reached 53, a majority of the 100-mem
ber chamber and more than enough to assure 
its defeat.
But some senior Reagan administration offi
cials and Senate Republicans are urging Bork 
to continue his lost fight in order to make a 
political point: that the president wont be a 
pushover for the Democratic-controlled Con
gress on a series of tough issues due for battle 
this fall.
Thirty-five senators, all but two of them 
Republicans, have said they would vote for 
Bork. Five of Borks opponents are Republi
cans.
Two Top Members Of 
AIDS Panel Resign
WASHINGTON (DJ)  President Rea
gans AIDS commission slipped into disarray 
as its two top members resigned. Another 
member, retired Navy Adm. James Watkins, 
was quickly appointed to succeed the chair
man.
The White House accepted with regret the 
resignation of commission Chairman W. 
Eugene Mayberry, head of the Mayo Founda
tion in Rochester, Minn. His resignation was 
followed by that of the commissions secondhighest official, Woodrow Myers, the Indiana 
health commissioner.
Gary Bauer, Reagans domestic adviser, 
praised Mayberry, but contended that the res
ignation will be positive in the long term, 
S2eoTS MePiART \Agg S egS PU lAaS PES 2Uw8
wATTAUR PES PAwS AP hSNoAhSTb
But others saw the resignation as evidence 
that the commission will be ineffective, as 
some had complained when it was formed in
June. Critics complained that it has no mem
bers who are experts on acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome.
Mayberry declined to comment on his res
ignation, but an associate said Mayberry be
lieved that the commission had difficulty 
hSe2EARl e 2URTSRToT S2eoTS U. \AOSgr OA8
vergent views on how to approach the AIDS 
crisis.
Reagan Will Hold  
Press Conference Soon
WASHINGTON (AP)  The White House 
said Friday it is likely that President Reagan 
will hold a news conference this month.
The presidents last White House news con
ference was March 19. Before that he held one 
Nov. 19. O
The president also met with reporters while 
attending the seven-nation economic summit 
in Venice, Italy, on June 11.
Asked when Reagan would hold another 
news conference, spokesman Marlin Fitzwater said no date had been set. But, when asked 
whether there would probably be one this 
month, he replied, I think its likely.
Caliguiri Opposes Plan % 
For New Expressway
PITTSBURGH  Mayor Richard Caliguiri 
announced last week that he is opposed to a 
proposed Mon Valley Expressway. He feels 
that the Green Route, a section of the high
way, would distrupt several city neighbor
hoods.
The mayor also objects to the other two jf 
routes of the 55-mile highway. They would 
link the proposed expressway with the Park
way East.
The mayor voiced his dissatisfaction by 
writing a letter to the state Turnpike Commis
sion Saturday. In the letter he asked the com
mission to consider upgrading Route 837.
His proposal has the highway splitting to 
take traffic to both sides of the Squirrel Hill ^ 
Tunnels.
One of the segments would connect with the 
Parkway near the Pittsburgh Technology 
Center in Hazelwood. The Center is a joint 
venture of Carnegie Mellon and Pitt.
News Briefs appear courtesy
4 T\ W Wof Dow Jones, Inc.
'Take a break...
Come to ^Pace s Dee Creamery
across from (he Museum 420 S. Craiij SL
IHomemade ice cream, cones, cakes, brownies, salads
and sandvtriches.
The bed ice cream in town!:
cjw irHkiy I fd one free!g I rBoj/1 fd one free! | |
I Sandwich Coupon j J copppono coupon J j any cone coupon
pm U/8/8J j j pr 11/8/87 j I
9i
Day I fd one free!
cxf*ra11/8/87
kk kk kuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuG
f IT'S |bhi nsde 1
$ CELEBRATE &>& $
^ AT THE ANNUAL ^
S\mcha^: Torah 
^ Thors. OcV \5 8 30pm
Forbes Quad At Put(%UILDIN<*| BE.HINQ U&RAtOO#vvv
v
v$vv
FlRbT FLOORGALL=R\A
IP Vou UKEO - XOU'LL1cont bvi^Crtiu uceioi dpaigu4
FP> E PvEC RESUMENTS AW SP\R\TS
SO PUT ON VO UR PANO siSHOES
T\ rT\( %e%T UiIat LDN gSv7u 4!G
A.
y
y
V
v*y
Sf&
*K
u

---------------------------------------------------

"1
Architects Unveil Latest Master Plan Revisions
October 13,1987The TartanPage 3
--------r' mmI //
[j Ta a
pr t-M0) Ikcdxc
Tartan Stajfwriter
A revised master plan was unveiled by archi
tects Dennis, Clark, and Associates on Wed
nesday, September 30. The first phase of the 
new plan covers the area surrounding the 
' football stadium and intramural fields. Addi
tional portions of the plan deal with a new 
University Center to replace Skibo, a hollow
ing of a ravine through the middle of the cut, 
and several future undesignated building sites.
According to the first phase of the plan, the 
stadium is to be turned 90 degrees to allow 
room for the construction of a new parking 
garage and a four or five story dormitory. 
c The dorm, which is scheduled for occupancy 
in the fall of 1989, will house 260 students in 
five or six person suites, according to Patrick 
Keating, Associate Vice President for Univer
sity Planning. The building will overlook the 
football field, and will contain a 400-seat cafe
teria. It bears a $13 million price tag, and will 
be partially paid for by the revenue generated 
by normal housing fees charged to the residents.
The parking garage, to be located on the 
Forbes Avenue side of the new stadium, will 
initially hold 500 automobiles, although it will 
be expanded to 750 with the completion of the 
University Center. Its projected cost is $6 
million. As with the dorm, these funds will be 
accumulated in part from parking fees charged 
to those who use the garage.
* Between the dorm and parking garage is the 
site of the relocated football stadium. Both the 
field and the surrounding track will bear all\SePESh ehPA.A2Aeg Toh.e2STb kR eOOAPAURf PES 
revised plan calls for two baseball fields, also 
with artificial surfaces, on the intramural field, 
which will be lighted. An important feature 
of this [revised] plan is that it will not reduce 
intramural space, Keating said. Estimated 
^ cost of the new stadium and the adjacent intra
mural area is about $6 million, which will be 
paid from current capital funds.
Construction on the first phase of the master 
plan is due to start in December or January. 
The whole thing should be done by the fall of
89, said Keating. And although the use of the 
stadium and intramural fields will probably be 
lost for one academic year, Keating stressed 
that the administration is searching for alter
nate sites.
The University Center, a building intended 
to expand upon the facilities currently found in 
Skibo, remains the main thrust of the master 
plan. The building will offer approximately 
170 thousand square feet of floor space, an 
increase of almost three times over Skibo. It 
has a projected price of $30 million. Included 
in the design are a retail area containing a post 
office and bookstore, a 500-600 seat cafeteria 
similar in size to Kiltie Cafe but with a food 
court atmosphere, student activity offices, 
and an athletic facility comprised of locker 
rooms, a 50-meter pool, a gymnasium, and an 
indoor track.
The indoor track is emerging as one of the 
more controversial issues of the plan. Plans 
call for a raised track with square comers of ap
proximately 1/10 mile in length. However, 
critics believe an 1/8 mile track with round
comers on the same level as the gym itself 
would be more appropriate.
In a letter to the editor appearing in the 
September 22 issue of The Tartan, Professor 
Jim Hoburg of the Department of Electrical 
and Computer Engineering wrote that my 
own impression...is that there are a great many 
people at CMU who consider a well-designed, 
high-quality indoor track to be a high priority 
in the design of a new athletic facility.
Hoburg has asked that members of the cam
pus community with an opinion on the matter 
send him campus mail, and at least one petition 
has been circulated. My intention is to ask Pat 
[Keating] to allow me and a group of people to 
meet with the committee which has been deal
ing with the architects and discuss the track, 
he said. He feels that there is very significant 
sentiment within the campus community for 
the construction of a high-quality track.
According to Keating, the problem with a 
bigger track is that the proposed University 
Center is not large enough to accommodate it. 
He stressed that the University C enters track
is not intended to be a replacement for the 
quarter-mile competitive outdoor track. 
However, he added that if a substantial por
tion of the university community feels this 
way, well certainly discuss it. Nothing is 
finalized yet.
As with the previous plan, the current revi
sion calls for the hollowing of the ravine. A 
study is being undertaken to see how the area 
would be used, and the committee will view 
alternate plans before any decision on the 
ravine.
The plan designates several places as future 
building sites without specifying exactly 
what, if anything, will be built on them. These 
sites include areas behind Hamerschlag Hall 
(perhaps to be an electronic materials build
ing), behind Morewood Gardens, next to 
Doherty Apartments, between Donner Hall 
and Margaret Morrison, and south of Warner 
Hall.
The entire master plan should be completed 
in approximately seven years, but Keating 
pointed out that it could take as long as ten.
Capital Campaign Reaches Halfway Mark: $100 Million
Capital Campaign
Electronic Materials
University Center 
Program Support
May 1, 1986
I Amount raised 
? Campaign goal
20 40 60 80
Millions of dollars
restoration, and 
expansion of the 
campus facilities, 
and half of which 
will be committed 
to support the vital
ity of the research 
and educational 
agenda.
The campus fa
cilities that will be 
restored or ex
panded are the fol
lowing: 1) a new 
University Center 
Complex; 2) reno
vation of the Bu
reau of Mines for 
relocation of the
By CHRIS YOUNG
Tartan Stajfwriter
As a financial goal, Carnegie Mellon Uni
versity plans to raise 200 million dollars in a 
capital campaign for its much needed uni
versity center and other campus/educational 
additions. In order to finance these goals, the 
Office of Campaign Administration is ask
ing alumni and major corporations to pledge 
gifts in support of campus renewal and in
creased endowment.
So, why do we have to implement a capital 
campaign to raise money for university de
velopment? Assistant Vice President for 
Development David Dallasandro states that 
capital campaigns arise when an institution 
thinks that its case for support is so compel
ling that it becomes time for certain alumni 
and friends to transfer excess capital to the 
university. Our Capital Campaign came 
about because the University and board of 
trustees felt that the institution had come to 
a point wjiere the current flow of income 
couldnt support the new things that had to 
be done.
CMU has been in the active phase of the 
Capital Campaign for over one and a half 
years. It officially started with the Carnegie 
Salutes Carnegie celebration in April of 
1986. At that point, says David Dallasandro, 
we had 65 million dollars in gifts already 
given from friends of the University; big 
gifts such as the 10 million dollars Paul 
Mellon pledged in his will, the 2.2 million
dollars Frank Rittman gave to create the 
Rittman Scholarship Fund, and the 2.3 million 
dollars Ethel Grubstein gave to Material Sci
ences to create fellowships. The number-one 
priority in generating funds is certainly the 
new University Center, which is going to cost 
about 28 million dollars. At this point the 
unrestricted funds pledged towards the Uni
versity Center is 7 million dollars, although 
only 3.6 million of it has been transferred into 
its expense account as of yet.
According to the report, Campaign For 
xehRSlAS >SggURf< PES lUeg U. PES xenAPeg 
Campaign is to raise 200 million dollars, half 
of which will be committed for the renewal,
School of Urban and Public Affairs; 3) addi
tional space for the Drama Department includ
ing a new theater; 4) renovated space in Mar
garet Morrison Hall for the relocation of the 
departments of Design and Architecture; and 
5) modernized laboratory space for Metallur
gical Engineering and Materials Science, Ro
botics, Chemistry, Chemical Engineering, 
and the Biological Sciences.
The support for research and educational 
agenda will entail the following: 1) maintain
ing the current level of sponsored research and 
restricted programs; 2) maintaining the 
growth of endowment in the areas of scholar
ships, professorships and faculty support; and
3) increasing the endowment of Hunt Li
brary, GSIA, and SUPA.
Another new addition to the campus for 
which the Capital Campaign is raising 
money is the Electronic Materials Technol
ogy Building which will be added on to the 
rear of Hamershlag Hall. It is projected to 
cost around ten million dollars. Two mil
lion dollars in gifts have already been com
mitted for the proposed building's construc
tion.
One tenth of one percent of the popula
tion is what were dealing with, says Dal
geTeROhUf XeRO AP PeiST e \EUgS gUP U. PAwS PU 
meet with all these very busy people to talk 
with them about our Capital Campaign. We 
have a major gift staff of five full-time pro
fessionals whose only job is to go find gifts 
of 100,000 dollars or more. We work 
through the list of forty thousand alumni, 
research the wealth of the alumni, and then 
call up certain ones to make an appointment 
to discuss the prospect of them pledging 
money to the Capital Campaign.
mU .ehf e22UhOARl PU 0eggeTeROhUf XFES 
amount of payment on pledges generated 
by the campaign is approximately 100 
million dollars. The yery last day of the 
Capital Campaign is 1991, but we may still 
be getting the actual cash until 19%. One 
immediate benefit of the campaign is 12 
new professorships that have already been 
created because of the influx of restricted 
pledges.

---------------------------------------------------

H&SS WEEKEND OCTOBER 25-26 (STUDENTS ARRIVE 2-5PM)
____I WOULD LIKE TO HOST________STUDENTS
I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY FROM 2-5 P.M.
CIT/MCS WEEKEND NOVEMBER 8-9 (STUDENTS ARRIVE 2-5PM)
____I WOULD LIKE TO HOST________STUDENTS
I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY FROM 2-5 P.M.
CFA WEEKEND NOVEMBER 15-16 (STUDENTS ARRIVE 12-5PM)
____I WOULD LIKE TO HOST________STUDENTS
___I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY FROM 3-5 P.M.
YOUR NAME_____________________MAJOR_______________
DORM _________________________
ROOM #______________
BOX #_________________________PHONE_______________
CIT/MCS WEEKEND OCTOBER 11-12 (STUDENTS ARRIVE 2-5PM)
____I WOULD LIKE TO HOST________STUDENTS
I WOULD LIKE TO ESCORT STUDENTS ON SUNDAY FROM 2-5 P.M.
Please (old and return to the Admissions office (WH 101)-by campus mail or phone x2082.

---------------------------------------------------

First the bad news,
m2UPgeRO )ehO \Agg S 2gUTSO .Uh wAOuTSwSTPSh hSei TPehPARl UR jhAOer 
eP Q nwb poP NEVER FEAR! MSgg S e2i RSDP FoSTOer eP GGC== ewb
Now the good news,
s
Pm
60
e
Eu
A3*4-</>
W
to iH
-4-O
FE
0)ao
fl<uOX)2
<-i
AT
eno
CQP-iol-l<DUR
0)urs
Pui0)"ou
d<u+->C/D
cn
u
<udo-iid
UGOz
l-l

i-i
WS'
oAPehATP " cgS2PhURA2 >oTA2 xUwnUTSh
!CQ= -Rgr

---------------------------------------------------

October 13,1987The TartanPage 5
Cyert Visits East Asia for Heinz, Inc.
By LISA MCANANY
Tartan Contributing Editor 
President Richard Cyert left Friday for a trip 
to East Asia that will last until he returns for the 
autumn Board of Trustees meeting.
Cyert and his wife, Margaret, are travelling 
' to South Korea and China as the guests of the 
H. J. Heinz Company. Cyert sits on the Board 
of Directors of the Pittsburgh-based manufac
turer of food products. The board will travel to 
Inchon, South Korea for the Grand Opening 
ceremony of a Seoul-Heinz, Ltd. plant, which 
began operations on August 1 of this year.
The group will then travel to Guangzhou, 
Peoples Republic of China, via Hong Kong, 
for the annual Heinz Company board meeting. 
Other activities in the Peoples Republic of 
China will include a trip to Beijing for a visit 
to the Great Wall and a state banquet in the 
Great Hall of the People.
Seoul-Heinz, Ltd. represents a $9.6 million 
investment that Heinz made in 1985 to acquire 
a 51 % interest in a joint venture with Seoul 
Food Industrial Company. The Company was 
renamed Seoul-Heinz, Ltd. in May, 1987. The 
company will soon introduce Heinz ketchup,
mayonnaise, com oil, and margarine into the 
Seoul market.
Heinzs interests in China are represented by 
the Heinz-UFE Nutritious Food Factory, 
which officially opened in 1986. This joint 
venture was launched under the Chinese 
governments policy of improving technical 
and economic cooperation and trade between 
China and the United States, with the addi
tional hope of improving nutrition for Chinese 
children. Initial products of Heinz-UFE, Ltd. 
mainly consist of rice, wheat, and high protein 
cereals for infants.
Fienberg Sponsors A Night at the Theatre
pr 1/dW p/dst/dF
Tartan News Editor 
In an effort to address the quality of life on 
campus, Humanities and Social Sciences 
Dean Steve Fienberg hosted two preview 
performances of the Drama Departments 
Good Woman of Szechuan last Wednesday 
and Thursday in Kresge Theatre.
The Deans office bought out both per
formances and gave the tickets away. 
Though Fienberg targeted the freshman 
class, the tickets were available to everyone 
through the Academic Advisory Center.
To Fienbergs disappointment, not all of 
the tickets were given away for Wednes
days 8 oclock performance, but there was 
only one left Thursday night 
Fienberg said he got the idea from the Task 
Force on the Quality of Student Life last 
spring. I saw it as a way to break down the 
walls, to get students to think about the 
campus in different ways. By stressing the 
freshman class, Fienberg wanted to get
photo by Kiri Barnhart
t"mm 0SeR mPSaS jASRShl nhSnehST PU SRPSh 1hSTlS FESePhSf FEohTOerb
students to the theatre early while trying to do 
more for students from the time they arrive. 
For future events, Fienberg wants the Deans 
Student Advisory Council (SAC) to be more 
involved. He said more students would have
attended his Night at the Theatre if stu
dents had helped plan and organize it.
In the spring, Fienberg will again sponsor 
a play: Six Characters in Search of an 
Author.
/hP 0SnPb IgeRT 
mSaSheg xEeRlST
continued form page 1
The one that was a surprise to us was 
the painting studio, said Winsand. Midani echoed this feeling, saying that ven
tilation systems had been installed ac
cording to federal standards.
Even though the ventilation hoods 
meet the standards, they draw the toxic 
gases directly past students rather than 
away from them. Midani says the de
partment will look at side ventilation 
technique.
When the ventilation problem was 
discussed at the meeting Wednesday, 
Rogers left and telephoned Vincent A. 
Sami, a Carnegie Mellon trustee. Sami 
is Chairman and Chief executive Offi
cer of PPG Industries, Inc.
Sami, Midani related, said PPG had re
cently completed a laboratory for paint 
studies. He and Rogers arranged a visit 
of experts from the lab to study the 
ventilation problems.
In addition to trying to solve the venti
lation problems, other steps have been 
taken. These include the purchase of 
heavy duty trash cans and installation of 
French drains near the printmaking stu
dios. The drains seemed to have worked 
during a recent rain storm.
The studio floors will be scraped, 
sanded, and refmished over Christmas 
break. Leaks in the skylight will be 
caulked soon. More safety signs have 
been ordered.
Winsand asks that students come to 
see me with safety problems. Im the 
most accessible person, he added.
Student Senate Adopts Constitution
continued from page 1
The new constitution calls for the expulsion of 
a senator who misses three office hours. Not 
all senators have office hours.  FThe constitution was approved by over the 
two-thirds majority required.
Later in the meeting, Greenberg introduced a 
resolution that affirmed the right of free 
speech on campus. He charged that Student 
Affairs harasses leaflet distributors by requir
ing prior approval.
Other senators disagreed, pointing out that 
Carnegie Mellon is on private property. Bostin 
countered that Student Affairs was protecting 
students from harassment. I dont think this is 
a necessary resolution, he added.
Greenberg defended his resolution declar
ing, Student Senate has historically taken no 
role in important University policies. We have 
to take a stand to be taken seriously.
The resolution failed.
In other business...
Senate approved a maximum of $3000 to the 
Student Alumni Relations Committee to pay 
for the Homecoming food for students.
The Carnegie Mellon Chess Club was given 
non-funded recognition.
Senator Lori Gallo announced that some 
senators would be holding office hours near 
Grey Matter rather than in the Senate Office.
Student Senate Presents.. 
Dean Edward Lilley
speaking on
The Serious Business 
of Play"
as kickoff speaker in the series of
on
20 October 1987 
at 
4:30 
in
Gregg Hall
Funded by your Activities Fee 
See this issue of the Tartan for more details
Glenn Schusta
Senior Vice President Pat Crecine receives a handshake from H&SS Associate Dean 
Richard Leo Enos at Friday's H&SS Honors Convocation in the Adamson Wing. After 
his keynote address, Crecine was presented a letter-opener from Enos as a momento 
of CMU. Crecine will take his position as President of Georgia Tech Nov. 1.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6The TartanOctober 13,1987
October 2 to October H
Crime and Incident Report
Election 88 News
Pat Robertson Admits 
To Premarital Sex
WASHINGTON  Presidential candi
date Pat Robertson admitted last week that 
his son was conceived out of wedlock. The 
disclosure came after the Wall Street Jour
nal reported that Robertson was married 
August 27, 1954, and his son was bom ten 
weeks later.
Robertson had told the Washington Post 
that he was married March 22, 1954, but 
last week said this is the day that he and his 
wife celebrate their anniversary because 
our son was conceived that day.
When he announced his campaign, the 
evangelist said, We must bring back the 
old-fashioned concept of moral restraint 
and abstinence before marriage.
After the disclosure, Robertson told the 
Post that his premarital sexual experiences 
occurred before he dedicated his life to 
Jesus. He said young people should not 
follow his example.
Rev. Jesse Jackson 
Announces Campaign
RALEIGH, N.C.The last major Demo
cratic candidate for President, Jesse 
Jackson, formally announced his campaign 
Saturday before 3,000 supporters.
The Baptist preacher is the current Demo
cratic front-runner in nationwide polls. In 
1984, he won over 3 million votes and 
brought attention to his Rainbow Coalition.
In his announcement, he promised to visit 
U.S. servicemen in the Persian Gulf. He op
posed President Reagans policies in the re
gion.
The 46-year-old acknowledged that his 
wife was pregnant with their first child 
when they were married New Years Eve 
1962. He said it was a matter of public 
record which he has never denied.
In his remarks, Jackson stressed the im
portance of the South in national politics. 
He also pledged a Jackson Doctrine of 
morality in foreign policy.
$
Student Senate Minutes, Oct. 6
10/2 THEFT 11:12 am Psychology Depart
ment reported $70 cash in five dollar bills 
missing. $40 taken 9/20, $30 taken 10/2. All 
missing from same desk drawer.
10/2 BURGLARY 4:41 pm Student living 
at 4825 Center had stereo cassette deck, Sanyo 
radio, and Keystone 35mm camera removed 
from apartment. $400 total value.
10/2 BURGLARY 6:25 pm Persons un
known entered Carol Apartments, took 
students wallet, $20 in American Express 
Travelers Cheques, $30 in cash and victims 
drivers license. Perpetrator appeared to enter 
through living room window: screen knocked 
out, window not locked.
10/3 THEFT 1:30 pm Persons unknown 
removed IBM PC computer, color graphics 
simulator, computer interface board, screen, 
keyboard, and Epson printer from Material 
Sciences Department. $6,400 total value.
10/4 THEFT 9:40 Officers recovered 12 
various road signs taken from room in Morewood Gardens.
10/5 SPECIAL Trial of person arrested by 
CMU Security Saturday, 10/3, in Skibo Park
ing lot. Charge reduced from Theft by Decep
tion to Criminal Attempt.
10/5 SPECIAL 7:51 pm Staff person walk
ing to car in Parking Area 8, hit by purple paint 
from the area of Morewood Gardens. Device 
used might be an air rifle.
10/6 THEFT 9:30 am Persons unknown 
took $35 in cash and a Master Card from third 
floor of Mellon Institute Lounge.
10/6 SUSPICIOUS PERSONS 8:46 am 
Call that three boys hanging out in Computer 
Science Lounge, fourth floor Wean Hall. Per
sons stopped at rear of Wean. Three students 
from Schenley High School skipping class.
Told Campus Police they had no where else to 
go. Released to parents.
10/6 ARREST 8:42 pm Officer observed 
black male, 56, 140 lbs., wearing bluejeans, 
blue denim jacket, gray hooded sweatshirt, 
white tennis shoes, and dark baseball cap, 
carrying 40 oz. bottle of beer exiting Hunt 
Library. Apparently under the influence of 
alcohol. Stopped for defiant trespass and 
warned not to return.
10/8 BURGLARY 8:49 am Persons un
known entered locked office took Macintosh 
SE, SE keyboard, mouse, and mouse pad. 
$3,602.74 total value.
10/8 THEFT RECOVERY 1:20 am Officer 
observed three white males trying to hide three 
objects with green garbage bags in front of 
Skibo. When approached, perpetrators ran 
toward Tech Field stands. One perpetrator 
caught between Boss and McGill Halls. Offi
cer found perpetrator was a Theta Xi pledge. 
Pledge told officer he was sent by Theta Xi 
brothers to go to GSIA and get some chairs. 
Pledge would not identify his accomplices. 
Security returned three swivel chairs to GSIA 
Deans Conference Room.
Be aware...
In the afternoon of Sunday, October 4, at 
about 5:20, a Carnegie Mellon secretary was 
assaulted and robbed. She was walking near 
the comer of Beacon and Wightman when a 
black male came up from behind her, knocked 
her to the ground, took her purse, and drove off 
with another black male. The second perpetra
tor was apparently waiting for the first to 
complete his crime. No suspects have been 
apprehended yet.
Meeting called to order 7:00 pm.
Present: Berger, Bostin, Christina, Clark, 
Frazier, Gallo, Gantshar(late), Goldstein, 
Graupera, Greenberg, Hausman, Jainchill, 
Kombrek, Levy, Liu, Mukherjee, Sherlock, 
Steppel, Trinh, Trull, Zapf(late).
Absent: Berkowitz, Levine.
Ex-Officio Members Present: Robitshek, 
Skolkin, Matsko.
Audience Participation: none.
President: Andrew Robitshek: PSAC notes: 
(Forbes traffic problems. Discussed plans for 
Tech House, sorority fire code problems, park
ing committee from Senate will have more 
input, reorganization of administration be
cause Pat Crecine is gone). SAMS meeting 
next week. Barbecue Saturday, 11:30 on cut. 
Need workers 11-12:30, 12:30-2:00. T-Shirts 
sold at barbecue, $4.00. Free for workers. Sold 
at bookstore afterwards. Make posters after 
meeting for Donner.
SDC: Delia Vayansky: Campus-wide Clip
per Ship party Oct. 23, 10 pm, around $8/ 
person, $ 15/couple.
GSO: Vince Matsko: none.
IFC: none.
Student Affairs: Ed Lilley: This is the first 
week of Making It Wellhealth and fitness. 
Will be a CMU Weight Watchers groups in 
dorms and sororities. Next month: Human 
SexualityMaking it Safe. Will be work
shops and lectures in dorms for people to meet 
each other.
Chairman: Dave Goldstein: Has list of stu
dents and faculty on University Board of Trus
tees from President Cyert.
Treasurer: Kerry Skolkin: none.
Academic Affairs: Celeste Clark: Continu
ing to prepare for Last Lecture Series. Investi
gating weekend.
Campus Affairs: Glenn Kombrek: Fire 
alarms in Donner. Improvements made with 
shuttle and escort. Need someone to meet once 
a month with Pat Keating and Bill Elliott 
concerning new student union plans.
Funding and Recognition: Tamal Mukher
jee: Motion for $3000.00 to SARC for free 
food at barbecue. Motion passed. Motion to 
recognize Chess Club by Senate. Motion 
passed. F&R meeting 2 pm Sunday.
Public Relations: Dana Hausman: Happy 
Hour Thursday, Nov. 5, Scotland Yard, 4-6 
pm. PR meeting Monday 4:30. Office hours in 
Grey Matter in comer, under clock, at table. 
Thursday night, midnight, paint fence.
Rules: Shep Bostin: Meetings Thursdays 6-
7 pm. New Constitution off table to old busi
ness. *
Old Business: Motion passed to take 
Constitution off table. In constitution, actions 
taken for three missed office hours per senator 
was discussed. Question called in objection to 
taking co-chairmen out of Constitution. 
Constitution passed as is, except for typos.
New Business: Greenberg presented Stu
dent Senate resolution, Free Speech Policy 
saying that people can pamphlet on campus * 
without permission of Student Affairs. Reso
lution failed.
IUARPT U. 0AT2oTTAURC Dr. Fetkovich will go 
to meeting first Tuesday every month. Tell 
xePEr A. rUo 2UwS ARPU wSSPARl gePSb >xm 
seats possibly messed up.
Announcements: Meeting tomorrow 12-1 
on University Center. Funding & Recognition 
meeting Saturday 12-3. AA meeting after *. 
Senate meeting. PR meeting 4:30. Thursday 
11:00 poster campus. Rules Thursday 6-7. CA 
meeting tomorrow at 6. IFC blood drive 
through tomorrow.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Student attempts to pitch-fork a sack 
during the annual Highlander games.
MusicSALE...
CASSETTES and RECORDS.
>/v-d W/pcWm 
F-I /dFkmFm
AFFORDABLE PRICES 
Something for Everyone
Pop, Rock, Folk, Jazz and Classics
On Sale for Limited Time 
Shop Early for Best Selection
emu bockstcre
IN BAKER HALL
October 19 thru November 2

---------------------------------------------------

dSgAh.+oT IgohegA
Reverend Paul H. Beattie 
BA, BD, MA
A Lecture Sponsored by the 
Philosophy Club
October 14, 8:30 PM 
Porter Hall 225C
dS.hSTEwSRPT \Agg S TShaSOb
I i !
H&SS Academic Advisory Center
SSDOQflllQg]!?1
Phenomenon of Academic Competition
Date: Wednesday, October 14, 1987
Speaker: Dr. Norman Johnson.
Associate V P for Academic Affairs
Location: H&SS Lounge, BH 254C
Time: 7 00 pm
Dr. Norman Johnson will conduct a seminar on the 
varying strategies for success in the Carnegie Mellon 
environment He will discuss the phenomenon of 
academic competition and the bearing which it has on 
campus life With a view to future careers and 
graduate/professional schools. Dr Johnson will examine 
the short and long-term effects of competition
Student participation welcomed
Refreshments will be served
7RAaShTAPr mPoOSRP -woOTweR
Not been treated fairly? 
Frustrated?
Dont know who to talk to about aNeed Information?
Have a good idea for the campus?
wm
eTTATP
rUo AR lSPPARl rUoh nhUgSw hSTUgaSOb FES UwoOTweR \Agg nhUaAOS 
AR.UhwePAURf weiS hS2UwwSROePAURT eRO ARaSTPAlePS 2geAwT U. oR.eAh 
PhSePwSRP Uh ShhURSUoT nhU2SOohSTb xegg Uh TPUn r PES miAU kR.Uhwe8
PAUR 0STi PU weiS eR ennUARPwSRP miAU kR.UhwePAUR 0STiu DzG=Mi
5:
Vf.
I' \ " .s
NNI*--------------------

---------------------------------------------------

Inquiring Minds Wonder About Life
pr Ftc ks'7kdks mF/jj
Have you noticed:
Because of Diskette Day, everyone in the 
nation has heard of our football team, but 
theres no self-respecting recruit whod still 
want to come here?
We received $1.2 
million for a Risk and 
Hazard Communica
tion Center. Their 
first topic is to tell us 
how safe the art studios are?
Being a politician in Pennsylvania right 
now can be really dangerous to your health?
The peculiar shaped planters by Wean? A 
list of possible uses:
Planters for sequoia trees
Birdbaths
The new pool
The Dick Cyert Memorial Goldfish Pond 
(filled with goldfish and silver dollars)
Eric Wittles Quality of Life campaign 
(seems no one else has)?
The number of buildings on campus has 
doubled in the past two years?
They keep moving the new buildings 
around so we think there are more of them?
The number of people who want to save one 
of the ugliest buildings on campus?
The number of names that building is now 
called since we cant call it Tech House ^ 
anymore?
The sign at More Pizza saying, Attention 
valued customers... Who are they talking 
about?
All of the happy, smiling people on campus 
last weekend?
That all of the happy, smiling people were 
either baggers or alumni?
Quality of life at Carnegie Mellon.
Pat Robertson was a homy little devil before 
he discovered Jesus?
Jim Bakkers sexual encounters after dis
covering Jesus were as good as Pat 
Robertsons sexual encounters before he dis
covered Jesus?
It took Dean Walter to make us realize that 
Allen Greenberg isnt as scary as he thinks he 
is. (How come no one noticed sooner?)<rlcontinued on page 9
!!!   
Wellness Campaign At
Cyert: Were Operating In the Black
The administration has noticed that students here at Carnegie Mellon are under 
lots of stress. Accordingly, they have launched an all-out, no-holds-barred, beatstress blitz to educate students about ways to deal with stress that daily life here 
produces. This unrestrained wellness campaign includes seminars to educate 
students about health and nutrition, the opening of a Weight Watchers chapter 
here on campus, and dawn-til-dusk aerobics classes to fit the schedules of even 
the most over-worked, over-stressed students.
The only problem with these well-intentioned efforts is that they treat the 
symptoms of this plague without treating the disease itself. The disease is a tragic 
ailment caused by a lack of fun on campus, compounded by a lack of facilities 
in which to enjoy oneself, and further complicated by a lack of free time. It is a 
sickness that proper breathing, leg lifts, and green leafy vegetables cannot cure.
Obviously, it is foolish to hope that life here or anywhere else will be 
completely stress-free. Trying to abolish stress is like trying to avoid the students 
collecting for MS on the cut. But the current wellness campaign may lull the 
administration into believing that they are really dealing with the problem. The 
danger, in turn, of this false sense of security is that it may draw the attention of 
those in power away from the projects that could actually relieve stress rather 
than merely treat it. These include better intramural facilities, a place for 
students (and faculty) to congregate on a casual basis (like a student center), and 
the staging of exciting extra-curricular events like lectures and concerts that will 
appeal to a large segment of the campus population. Only in these endeavors lies 
the hope of truly lowering the level of stress rather than just trying our best to 
coexist with it.
Steps are, indeed, being taken towards improving the so-called quality of 
life; the Master Plan is considered by some to be a cure-all. But results 
stemming from massive campus renovation are, at best, 5 years away, and 
probably even more than that.
The administration cannot sit around and tell us to wait patiently: help is on the 
way. If a $50,000 track can be built, only to be rendered moot a year later, then 
more ambitious programs can be sponsored by Warner Hall noweven though 
the completion of the Master Plan years later will relieve some of the pressure.
Several students I have talked to in recent 
days have asked me questions about the 
universitys financial situation. I thought 
some of these questions might be of interest to 
the rest of you as well. The university fiscal 
year has just ended (June 30), which makes it 
a good time also to ask about finances.
Carnegie Mellon is one of the fortunate pri
vate universities in the country. While the 
number of high school graduates has de
creased in recent years, our applications and 
enrollment have grown. Our reputation has 
grown at a rapid rate. Our research and endow
ment have also increased. We are able to 
operate in the black and to improve our 
physical facilities significantly. Many private 
universities and colleges around the country 
are beginning to suffer financially.
When we say the university is operating in 
the black, we mean the amount of money we 
have received from various sources of revenue
- tuition, endowment income, gifts, research - 
is greater than our expenditures on such items 
as salaries, supplies, travel and insurance. This 
phrase operating in the black has confused 
some students because a firm that operates 
with revenues greater than expenses is said to 
be making a profit. Some of its profit is then 
used to pay dividends to stockholders. Car
negie Mellons situation is quite different 
from that of a profit-making firm.
We try to operate in the black in the sense I 
have discussed but not to have a profit. Fur
thermore, we have too many uses for our 
money to allow the surplus to be large in any 
one year. Any surplus is put into the budget for 
next year, reserved against future needs such 
as the University Center project or is put into 
the endowment. Reserves are held at my level 
and by each dean and vice president for un
foreseen contingencies in their areas. The 
major gain from operating in the black is that 
the university does not use up its resources, is 
able to handle smoothly some small unfore
Yoo Yoe Fee Yo Bsree,BABAK
Com sate 6*eN LE/& ve6em6t&!
seen emergencies such as flooding, or can 
respond to unanticipated opportunities such as 
the sudden availability of an outstanding fac
ulty member in a strategic discipline. Obvi
ously, no organization can regularly operate 
by spending more than it takes in, unless it is 
in ultimate control of the supply of money as 
the Federal government is. We are not in this 
position. One of the major responsibilities of 
the trustees is this balancing of current needs 
against future financial solvency and strength.
In addition to operating revenues and ex
penses, the university must obtain funds for 
capital investment. Because we are a non
profit organization, we do not recognize de
preciation in our formal accounting of operat
ing expenses. This has allowed some universi
ties in the past, even Carnegie Mellon, to avoid 
substantial current expenses by deferring 
maintenance and investments in new facilities 
without affecting their operating statements. 
Unlike the operating budget, we have spent 
considerably more in the capital area than we 
have brought in to the university over the past 
few years; and we have brought in a lot! This 
has been accomplished with borrowed funds. 
Projects such as the renovations in Morewood 
Gardens and Boss and McGill dormitories, the 
campus network wiring, improvements in 
major laboratories, and the construction of the 
UCC building would not have been possible 
without these borrowed funds. While Car
negie Mellon is contributing a large amount of 
current funds to the improvement of our facili
ties, we are still spending at an even greater 
rate. Because these are capital and not operat
ing expenses, we do not expect to continue to 
invest so heavily in the future and, therefore, 
can justify spending more than the current 
revenue would allow in the short run. In this 
way, the administration and trustees have 
supported the notion that we need to invest 
today for a stronger and better university 
tomorrow. Other ongoing capital renovations
and basic maintenance are fully funded out of 
current revenues, and should be because we 
cannot anticipate stopping these programs.
One of the factors that helps the university 
significantly is the generosity of our alumni, 
corporations that are interested in us, and 
friends of the university. By contributing 
money to the university, they help to make us 
stronger and mre capable of continuing the 
programs of strength that we maintain here. 
Many of the faculty, staff, and administration 
give back part of their salaries in the form of 
gifts because of their dedication to and love of 
the university. My wife and I recently made a 
contribution to establish a scholarship because 
of our commitment to students and the university. Many others have made similar sacrifices 
because of their belief that the future of this 
country is in the hands of people like you. 
More than that, they, like us, are convinced 
that private higher education is the basis for 
good higher education in this country. Private 
institutions must lead and they can do so only 
with support from people who have faith that 
private education is important.
dA2EehO >b xrShPf IhSTAOSRP 
xehRSlAS >SggUR 7RAaShTAPr

---------------------------------------------------

 , & S" f~|r
October 13,1987The TartanPage 9
Faculty Involvement Can Benefit Students
pr cdkx Wb MkFFWc
In my first column, I defined the main issues 
relating to Quality of Life as student commit
ment, administration commitment, and com
munication. This definition came in a large 
part from the
thoughts and ideas I 
exchanged within the 
Quality of Life Task
Force. Recently, I
have been able to discuss Quality of Life issues
with interested people outside of the Task 
Force, which has broadened my definition.
Carnegie Mellon exists for the purpose of 
education, which is an extremely fundamental 
fact that I have missed thus far. Education is 
the prime purpose for most students, and thus 
plays a major role in their Quality of Life. 
Also, education at any university is designed 
and directed by the faculty of the university. 
Therefore, it follows quite simply that faculty 
commitment or involvement must play an 
important role in the Quality of Life for the 
entire campus community. This is a funda
mental fact that I have overlooked, and that is 
not presently being addressed by the Quality 
of Life Task Force. I realized that this area was 
being overlooked far too late to affect the 
progress of the Task Force, and so I am hoping 
to discuss this issue here.
The Task Force report deals for the most part 
with issues not directly related to education. 
Looking back, it seems that the Task Force 
members were afraid in some way of address
ing the educational areas of CMU. The appar
ent reason for this is the understandable desire 
not to tamper with success. It is difficult to 
support an argument that the academic educa
tion CMU students receive is not excellent. 
However, it is possible to make a good thing
kRNoAhARl >AROT /hS mPAgg MUROShARl
continued from page 8
Everyone has U2 tickets, but no ones 
goingjust scalping?
Delta Upsilon is again mentioned in a front 
page story?
One of the best ways to find a parking spot 
here is to set your car on fire?
The University Plain gets updated more of
ten than the salad bar at Kiltie?
The admissions office wants you to sleep 
with a bagger, yet they insist on giving you a 
bagger of the same sex?
Everyone wants Quality of Life, but forget 
they need a life first?
Anything from Activities Board? Neither 
have we?
Iranian ships sink really well?
Someone was offering free U2 tickets if you 
were a decent looking girl? Honest!
If Robert Bork had as much charisma as 
Ollie North, wed all be in trouble?
Why are we trying for Quality of Life when 
were going to school in Pittsburgh?
Midsemester break comes just when you 
think you cant take it anymore?
Then break ends and proves you cant?
So Graduation wouldnt be on Mothers 
Day, Warner Hall moved the semester a whole 
week, instead of moving Graduation one day?
The current H&SS Dean has lasted almost 
two months?
Michael Jackson, Pink Floyd, and Yes have 
all come back at the same time? Is this a con
spiracy. or what?
Its been at least two weeks since a serious 
Presidential Nominee has done something 
stupid?
Even if we had Quality of Life, no one 
would have time to enjoy it, and then wed all 
be even more depressed?
Inquiring Minds still really dont give a 
damn?
The Inquiring Staff is S. Levine, C. Williams, 
and R. Wilsonb
E R H L L/ ^Rr v
better, and there are areas where the academic 
education offered by CMU could improve.
The substance of Carnegie Mellons aca
demic education is mostly excellent. The 
methods of achieving that high quality educa
tion could be greatly improved. The extreme 
levels of competition for grades in some 
courses leads to stress which is not in any way 
related to the course material, and very detri
mental to students Quality of Life. In addi
tion, the lack of consistency in grading styles 
and methods across courses and/or depart
ments produces more stress. In general, there 
are many aspects of the academic education 
process here at CMU that needlessly produce 
high levels of stress. Addressing these specific 
concerns would have a large effect on Quality
of Life for many students, without appreciably 
altering the quality of their academic educa
tion.
The concerns I mentioned above are not 
often explicitly verbalized by students, but 
have significant effects on their lives. These 
concerns were not, and are not, being ad
dressed by the Quality of Life Task Force. No 
one group should be blamed in any way for this 
fact, as we all had ample opportunity to bring 
these issues up for discussion. It is under
standably difficult for the faculty and admini
stration to address these issues, since there are 
very tender toes which would be stepped on in 
any attempt to improve these areas. Telling 
faculty members that their methods of educat
ing students need improvement is painful for
both the administration and faculty. This, 
however, in no way excuses a failure to ad
dress these issues.
It is specific, difficult areas like this that are 
in most need of intelligent, articulate student 
input. When a sensitive area such as this is not 
being addressed by the people involvedin 
this case the faculty and administrationout
side input is invaluable. If students are unwill
ing or unable to take the time and effort to work 
with the faculty and administration on issues 
such as these, the issues will never be resolved. 
Think about that tonight before you get a good 
nights sleep.
As before, I can be reached through the SDC 
office (x2114), campus mail (Box 576), and 
electronic mail (ewlk@tb).
Original Intent a Debatable Issue
pr c0M/d0 /b dc)
Carnegie Mellon Law Club 
To many law professors and judges, original 
intent is a respectable and legitimate means of 
interpreting the Constitution. Proponents as 
the much learned Robert Bork contend that the 
theory of original in
tent takes the values 
of the framers and 
applies them to 
todays changing 
problems. Its not easy, its not mechanical, 
but its not impossible.
The values of the framers are the roots of the 
Constitution. They include federalism, sepa
ration of the powers, freedom of speech, etc. 
They are essential in deciphering and incorpo
rating such enigmatic phrases as the unrea
sonable search and seizure, cruel and 
unusual punishment, equal protection of the 
laws, and so on.
The rationale of original intent is to keep the 
Court from judging by values other than those 
of the framers. A judge who applies the 
morality of today is applying his or her own 
morality argues Robert Bork. The Court 
should practice judicial restraint when grant
ing either partial or plenary review of an issue. 
To be granted certiorari, an issue should not 
only be one of national importance and show 
disagreement in the courts below, but also be 
one that is within the jurisdiction of the Court 
as intended by the framers. To Ralph Lemer, a 
University of Chicago professor, original in
tent is the means by which we determine what 
kind of world, with what kind of people, and 
what kind of relationship of government to the 
people, did (the framers) envision.
The 1973 pro-abortion decision in Roe v. 
Wade (410 U.S. 113) was seen by original
intent proponents as the Court's greatest devia
tion. As many legal experts have agreed, the 
right to privacy on which the pro-abortion 
ruling was established can neither be found 
nor inferred in the Constitution. These propo
nents claim that the Court should not have 
overlooked the intent of the 50 states. One 
must keep in mind, though, that the number of 
states permitting abortions in certain instances 
were growing along with the number of fed
eral court rulings striking down state anti
abortion laws.
This precocious theory still encounters dis
agreement even amongst the most conserva
tive members of the court. In Wallace v. Jaffree (105 S.Ct. 2479 (1985)) Justice William 
Rehnquist contended that original intent was 
appropriate for sanctioning a moment of silent 
prayer in the Alabama public schools. Justice 
Sandra Day OConnor found original intent 
inapplicable since there were no public 
schools in the time of the framers. The major
ity held that the states may not require silent 
prayer in the classroom, though meditation is 
allowed as long as it does not attempt to 
promote religion in the classroom. Burger, 
White and Rehnquist dissented.
Evidence has also surfaced that the Congress 
that proposed the 14th Amendment did not 
foresee desegregated schools. A proponent of 
original intent would thus argue that the 14th 
Amendment lacks grounds to justify the 
Courts decision to desegregate schools. 
Surely such a proponent would be egregiously 
in error if (s)he were to criticize the Courts 
decision in Brown vs. Board of Education 
(Brown I: 347 U.S. 483 (1954)). As Robert 
Bork concedes, the courts must not hesitate to 
apply old values to new circumstances; the 
Constitution is not and end in itself.
Conservative Corner...
0ATehwewSRP MAgg sUP WSeO FU ISe2S
pr Ft->/m /b tck>
The intermediate-range nuclear (INF) treaty 
that the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. have come close 
to completing is cause for concern among 
conservative Republicans. The agreement 
calls for elimination 
of all short and inter
mediate range nu
clear missiles in and 
around Europe. The 
problem with too many Americans is that they 
regard disarmament as synonymous with 
peace. For political reasons, Reagan and Gor
bachev now publicly agree with this ideology.
However, this INF treaty will not be a step 
towards everlasting peace in Europe; if any
thing, it will be a step backwards. The treaty 
would call for the destruction of nuclear mis
siles that threaten Western Europe and, more 
importantly, the destruction of those missiles 
that protect it. This treaty is attractive to the 
7bmbmbdb because it will destabilize Europe 
eRO gSeaS PES 7bmbmbdb eRO PES mUaASP pgU2
11.  : t * . t> |: I 11 11:111 >;
countries with a massive conventional superi
ority. It will lead to an increased probability of 
war. Furthermore, in the event of a confronta
tion between the Soviet Bloc and NATO, the 
absence of intermediate range nuclear forces 
means that the only non-tactical nuclear re
sponse would come from the U.S., which 
would be the precursor to World War Three.
Ever since the end of WWII, the doctrine of 
Mutually Assured Destruction (MAD) was 
pursued because peace depended upon it. 
There is no reason to think the need for this 
doctrine has vanished. Persian missiles were 
deployed in Europe as a necessary step for its 
protection. These missiles also served as a 
reminder of the commitment the U.S. has to its 
allies. To remove this commitment and protec
tion is to promote the prospect of a Finlandized 
Europe. One must remember that peace comes 
from military strength, and wars are started by 
those who think that something is winnable at 
eR acceptable cost. Lets not make Europe 
e22SnPegS eP eRr 2UTPC eeROUR PES INF treaty.
There have been those who have professed 
their belief in original intent for reasons less 
honorable. Politicians have turned and turned 
about when it came to original intent. Madison 
opposed the First Bank of the U.S. in 1791 on 
the grounds that the Constitution did not grant 
power to the federal government to charter 
corporations. In 1816, President Madison 
signed the Second Bank into law. Today, there 
are those who feel Attorney General Edwin 
Meese has harnessed original intent to help 
pull the Reagan agenda. His main targets are 
said to be affirmative action and abortion 
rights, two issues that do not stand up well in 
the light of original intent. His adversaries 
claim Meese has not remained consistent in his 
belief. Last spring, Meeses Justice Depart
ment argued that only intentional infractions 
of the voting rights be considered illegal. This 
was contrary to the clear intent of Congress. 
The court unanimously rejected this argu
ment.
Original intent is a sophisticated theory to be 
taken seriously. It is not a toy for politicians to 
misuse, nor is it a definitive answer to all 
problems unanticipated. It propounds that 
Judges should take the values of framers into 
consideration when solving the ever-changing 
problems of today and thus create a society 
much as the framers had envisioned.
__________The Tartan__________
Editor-in-Chief......___________Russ Seligman
Managing Editor........................... David sb Levy
Business Manager.......................Mark R. Benish
News Editor...................................Karl Barnhart
Assistant News Editor....................Eric Leuliette
Features Editor..............................Mary Murphy
Assistant Features Editor.........Judy Haraburda
Sports Editor................________Stewart Levine
Assistant Sports Editor.......................David Brill
Diversions Editor.______________Bruce Kasrel
Assistant Diversions Editor.....___.Leslie Griffin
Photo Editor.............................Glenn Schuster
Art Editor ....___ _____...Grant Carmichael
Literary Editor.  __.....Michele Osherow
Production Manager._______. Drue Miller
Ad Manager ..........._________..Celeste Clark
Copy Manager_____________Nancy St. Louis
Contributing Editors ...............-------.....
Lisa D. McAnany Olve Peerson
Albrecht T. Powell John Friedmann
Neil Greenblum Andrew Gillespie
Tny TCVrC& RB C Bridy&r &ywBpCpyV oH CCV&ygRy My^^o& U&RvyVBRry M 
RB C wyyk^y &ywBpCpyV pib^RBnyd yCcn TiyBdCy diVR&g rny rC^^ C&d 
BpVR&g BymyBryVB by Bridy&rB Cr &o coBr ro mymbyVB oH rny i&RvyVBRry 
commi&Rry vr RB pVR&ryd by TypycVCHr PVyBB. v&c SibBcVRprRo&B CVy 
CvCR^Cb^y roV $15 pyV BymyBryV. $25 pyV yyCV Tny EdRroVRC^ CppyCVR&g 
Cr rny bygR&&R&g oH rny opR&Ro& BycrRo& RB rny oHHRcRC^ opR&Ro& oH Tny 
TCVrC& ydRroVRC^ boCVd CoRim&C CVy rny opR&Ro&B oH R&dRvRdiC^ CirnoVB 
wno CVy &or &ycyBBCVR^y o& Tny TCVrC& ydRroVRC^ boCVd oV BrCHH LyrryVB 
ro rny EdRroV CVy opR&Ro&B oH R&dRvRdiC^ CirnoVB wno CVy iBiC^^y 
mymbyVB oH rny U&RvyVBRry commi&Rry A ^yrryV R&ry&dyd roV pib^RcCrRo& 
miBr by BRg&yd C&d R&didy rny wVRryV'B CddVyBB C&d pno&y &imbyV roV 
vyVRHRcCrRo& NCmyB wR^^ by wRrnny^d ipo& VyqiyBr Tny TCVrC& Vy
ByVvyB rny VRgnr ro co&dy&By oV Vyjycr C&y ^yrryV oV co^im& CopyVRgnr 
1987 roy Tny TCVrC& Tny ydRroVRC^ boCVd VyByVvyB rny VRgnr ro wRrnno^d 
HVom pib^RcCrRo& C&y copy  dyymB i&HRr roV pib^RcCrRo&
Office: Skibo 50-52 (412)268-2111 
Mailing address: The Tartan / Box 17 / Carnegie 
Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 15213 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. AM rights 
reserved. Library of Congress ISSN #: 0890-3107.

---------------------------------------------------

COME,
EXPLORE,
LEARN.
SOFTWARE DEMONSTRATIONS in Skibo Ballroom
See what various software packages have been developed at other colleges and universities!
$10-demonstrations only $30full conference
C-CUE
Consortium for Computing in 
Undergraduate Education
conference on 
computing in 
undergraduate 
education
October 17. 18. 19.1987 
Carnegie Mellon University
He was Just this guy in my class with coollooking hair. I never thought we had any
thing in common until we ran into each other at Great Expecta
tions.
Sarah and Tim: Hottest 
couple, Class of 87
CESsStY*1" GttflT fltfCCTflTHRSPRECvSvON HAvRC UTTERS
SATISFACTION GUARANTEED! 
GVyCr Sry^yB SrCVr Cr ...
APPOvNT MvN!
NHCESSABL
MUST HAVE COUPON 
~SAVE~$2.00 |
on a
PRECISION HAIRCUT
Complete with shampoo & styling
Offer Expires 
October 31
____ttKUTEHranmmtsPRECISION HAIRCUT TERS
237 Arwood SrVyyr 
AcVoBB rny BrVyyr HVom 
OCk^C&d PoBr OHHRcy
687-3500
DESIGNER PERM
only $25.00
Complete with written guarantee
only $1 3*00
Complete with shampoo and blow style
JUST-A-CUT
only $8.00
Cut only
CMU Student Computing Fair
On Tuesday and Wednesday, October 20-21, Academic Computing is hosting a CMU 
Student Computing Fair. It will be held in the Skibo Ballroom, 12:00-5:00 on Tuesday and 
12:00-3:00 on Wednesday.
Purposes: Personal Ownership Information and Computing Demonstrations
The main purpose of the fair is to provide information to students about the options and support 
services available to them for personal ownership of computing systems. A secondary purpose is 
to provide exposure to a wide range of educational and research computing activities at Carnegie 
Mellon, with particular emphasis on emphasis on educational uses of computing by undergraduates. 
The information presented at the fair will include:
Hardware and software purchases through the PC Store 
-Communications via MCN and network wiring in dorms 
-On-line access to the library catalog with the Library Information System 
-Demonstrations of educational software from CDEC, English, Architecture,
History, and several other departments 
-Employment opportunities in Academic Services
The fair will also be an opportunity to inform students about computing related employment 
opportunities.
For more information contact Jill Murray (jrm@andrew) or Liz Barnhart (lb0l@andrew).
*
*

---------------------------------------------------

 ________I________ F eatures
Bill Elliott Discusses New Job, Reveals Intentions
pr Wkm/ 0b >2/s/s)
Tartan Contributing Editor
Bill Elliott is Carnegie Mellon s Vice Presi
dent for Enrollment, in charge of Career Serv
ices and Placement, C-MAP, Financial Aid, 
ROTC and undergraduate admissions. As a 
result of Pat Crecines departure from the 
position of Senior Vice President for Aca
demic Affairs to become President of Georgia 
Tech, Carnegie Mellon will move to a single 
provost system. Bill Elliott will have a new 
position and increased responsibilities. In an 
interview Friday, Elliott elaborated on his 
new responsibilities and described his views 
about Carnegie Mellon, where we've been and 
where were going.
FehPeRC k understand its official now, and 
you are now the Vice President for Student 
Affairs.
cggAUPPC Thats not true. Thats not going to 
be the title. The Dean of Student Affairs 
[Braden Walter] reports to me, the Director of 
Athletics [Jim Banner], and a variety of other 
people, but the title will not be the Vice Presi
dent of Student Affairs. Theres already a 
Dean of Student Affairs and he obviously has 
obligations and responsibilities as the Dean of 
Student Affairs, and I dont want to use that 
title for the simple reason that thats not what 
Im going to do. I had told Dr. Jordan and Dr. 
Cyert that that was not a title that I thought was 
befitting of what we were going to try to 
accomplish, and I dont think we want to 
infringe on the Dean of Student Affairs.
FehPeRC What are some of the ideas being 
kicked around for your new title?
cggAUPPC Vice President of Administration 
has been talked about. Vice President for 
Campus Life, Vice President for Student 
Academic Services, all of which have some
thing wrong with them and dont communi
cate necessarily what the job will be, because 
one implies admissions, one implies finance. 
Another thing I suggested was to retain the 
issue of Vice President for Enrollment.
We [Jordan, Cyert, Rogers, Keating and 
Elliott] have spent between three and threephoto by Glam Schuster
Elliott at his desk in Warner Hall.
and-a-half hours together this week. We left a 
few edges undone because we didnt have 
SRUolE PAwS, \S OAORP EeaS hSTUgoPAURb
FehPeRC Going back to the beginning, tell me 
a little about the history of this new position. Is 
this a change that was brought on by Crecines 
departure, or was the idea of a reorganization 
milling around before that?
cggAUPPC There had been talk about it, about 
whether or not some more of the student serv
ices ought to fall into this new position. I 
happened to be the one sitting in the chair. Ive 
been here a long time. Sometimes I wondered 
whether or not I would ever say that because I 
came to Carnegie Mellon in 1970, ostensibly 
to stay only four or five years, and Ive been 
here ever since. Im not a Pittsburgher; Im not 
a Pennsylvanian. Im a liberated New Eng
lander and found Pittsburgh and Carnegie 
Mellon a delightful spot to be and made my 
career here. Opportunities have come my way, 
and things that Ive thought about, suggestions 
that Ive made, things that Ive done have kind 
of seemed to fit the style of Carnegie Mellon.
FehPeRC What do you anticipate to be the
tangible results of this new position, this reor
ganization in the upper echelons of the admini
stration?
cggAUPPC Carnegie Mellon is like any other 
organization. You try to at least facilitate 
communication, facilitate opportunities for 
people to express opinions, and certainly not 
to cause encumbrances as far as projects we  ve 
got underway. And I think any administrative 
design is only as good as the people that are in 
it. Putting boxes on a piece of paper is not 
going to make this organization or any other 
organization work better. I think its really the 
case of how the four or five of us, no matter 
how you organize the place, can work together 
to achieve the ultimate objective of the organi
zation, which is to provide opportunities for 
students, provide opportunities for faculty 
members, keep ourselves physically sound, 
and pursue the things that we think are the 
appropriate activities for Carnegie Mellon to 
engage in.
FehPeRC Given, then, that the goals and phi
losophy of the organization are not changing, 
why instate this new position, why not simply 
look for someone to fill the vacancy left by Pat 
Crecines departure?
cggAUPPC Well, Ill give you Bills idea on that. 
I have been here some eighteen years. Dr. 
Cyert has been the president for 15 of those 
and I think if you were to look back, youd find 
that under Dr. Cyerts administration, there 
isnt a static organization at Carnegie Mellon; 
typically, at least as Ive watched this process 
evolve, youve taken the people who are here, 
and organized the institution to fit what seems 
to be the best structure for the particular group 
of people.
As for changing from a dualto a single
provost system, we have done that before in 
Dr. Cyerts administration, going to two and 
then going to one and then going to two. Its 
like anything else  if you wait long enough 
anything will come back again. Were really 
just cycling through, having come from two 
senior academic administrators and going to 
one.
I think thats important to understand. The 
organization kind of breathes  gets bigger, 
gets smaller, takes advantage of particular 
peoples interests and skills and abilities, and 
tries to respond to that rather than saying, 
You will get into this box. These are the 
people who report to this box. Those are the 
only things you will be in charge of. Thats 
not Carnegie Mellons style. This is a pretty 
free-floating operation here. Sometimes that 
causes us difficulties and sometimes it gives 
us great opportunities. Students must see that. 
Faculty must see that. The administrative 
group must see that. But thats one of the 
things thats the magic of Carnegie Mellon. 
Sometimes we get in each others way. That 
may be the down-side of this kind of organiza
tion. Also, this is not a big administrative 
structure for an organization such as this insti
tution. Sometimes that lack of big bureaucracy 
means that things dont get done quite as well 
as they should or could at other institutions, so 
as with anything else there are liabilities that 
come with an organization and there are as
sets.
FehPeRC What do you see as the major issues 
facing the administration and the University at 
the moment?
cggAUPPC For my personal agenda, k would 
EUnS to be able to take up the cause, in Bill 
Elliott style, of constantly promoting and talk
ing about the university center, constantly 
talking about the project as it relates to the 
issues of students. I think the stage has been set 
and the awareness has been created and what 
we need to do now is the most difficult: not 
gUTS TAlEP U. Uoh US2PAaSb kPT SeTr PU 2hSePS 
SD2APARl AOSeTf PES hSeg ATToS AT PU SDS2oPS SD8
citing ideas, to sustain and maintain enthusi
eTwf iSSn rUoh ePPSRPAUR UR PES nhUS2P eESeOb 
kPT SeTr PU lSP OATPhe2PSO, \S egg lSP OATPhe2PSOb 
k 2eR PEARi eUoP e oR2E U. PEARlT PEePAP \UogO 
S RA2S PU OU oP \S EeaSRP e22UwngATESO PES 
US2PAaS PEeP \S EeaS hAlEP EShS AR .hURP U. oTf 
PU oAgO PU oRAaShTAPr 2SRPShb
FehPeRC Since you brought it up, would you 
continued on page 14
Fashion Dos and Pori ts for Fall...
Make Edible Jewelry and Save Those Cowl Necks !
Here are a few tips contributed by fashion 
conscious students at Carnegie Mellon. They 
should be employed individually, combining 
too many simultaneously could result in disas
ter.
When going to the library, do dress as if you 
would conform with the occupants of an Ital
ian airport. Lots of bags, layered scarves and a 
few jackets to mix and match.
jUh PES pAiU tegg gUUi geTP rSehT enehPESAO 
TEeRPrB noh2EeTS TSnehePST AR hSr >ePPShu 
EeROuiRAP T\SePShTf gehlS SehhARlT weOS U. 
SePSR TnUURTf T2hS\Tf heOAU eRPSRReTf eRO 
gURl UERTb WerShf UwAP ePEARl eRO nhSTPUb
jUh e RS\ gUUi PAr e Al T\SePTEAhP UaSh 
SaShrPEARlb
0- \Seh gSl\ehwShT( PES 2UwwUR wAT8
2UR2SnPAUR U. PES jgeTEOeR2S gUUi SARl UoP AT 
AR2UhhS2Pb
0- OhSTT SRPAhSgr AR ge2i eRO \egi e2hUTT 
PES 2oP \APE UPESh ge2i 2geO 2geR wSwShT( 
e aShr XAR< gUUi PEeP PheRT2SROT TSeTURTb
0-sF ToTPAPoPS .gU\Sh nUPT .Uh TEUogOSh 
neOTu A. rUo 2eRP .ARO e OS2SRP neAh TUwS8
\EShS AR rUoh 2gUTSP oTP nAR hUggSOuon TU2iT PU
the inside of your shirt.
DO wear denim dresses or suits. Designers 
can work wonders with the material nowa
days. Last year the the term stonewash could 
only be connected with jeansnow shirts, 
skirts, dresses, jackets and underwear can all 
posses the faded overdyed texture.
DONT mix stripes, its a fashion faux pas.
DONT retire the cowlneck sweaters you 
received in the late 70s. A safety pin in the 
e2i U. PES RS2i 2eR 2EeRlS PES gUUi .hUw 
XUoPf< PU XARb<
. DONT wear cellophane pants. The wear 
without wash look is unattractive on both men 
and women.
DO give your old bed linens a new identity. 
A pillowcase makes a very chic hat with a 
couple of stiches in the right places.
DO collect vegetables from the Kiltie, dry 
them on your radiator and string them together 
with dental floss. Prestoa necklace or brace
let!
DONT try and get rid of static clinga sock 
stuck to your sweater is charming and original.
DO wear your coat or jacket throughout the 
duration of class. Not only does this ensure an 
expedient departure in the rare case of a fire 
drill, it also makes the classroom atmosphere 
similar to that of a train station.
DO \Seh rUoh TU2iT UaSh rUoh neRPTbFESr 
keep your cuffs clean and well insulated.
DO wear a half to a full pint of after shave or 
perfume. It heralds your imminent arrival with
a flare, and youll never catch you friends 
talking about you. DONT be perturbed by 
people overreacting to the smell in elevators or 
buses. If they are ill-mannered enough to turn 
purple holding their breath, or cough and 
sputter it is their problem.
DO wear sheer stockings and socks. It is 
worth the uncomfortable feeling to project the 
EAn gUUi U. e \Sggu2geO eRigSb
DONT tie the laces of your high tops. Trip
ping on stairs, while it endangers the lives of 
others, gets a big reaction from your friends 
and neighbors. The laces also look better 
dangling from your sneakers like stray dirty 
bits of spaghetti.
DO ignore the tradition of wearing socks
after Labor Day. Bare ankles, pale from winter 
winds are the perfect complement to any en
semble.
DO wear the school Tartan as frequently as 
possible. Dressing like an alumnae is very in, 
and people might even be fooled into thinking 
rUoaS lheOoePSOb
DO wear clothes found discarded in laundry 
rooms on campus. While they might not be 
yours they can still create cute outfits for fall.
And finally, perhaps the most important tipDONT be afraid to wear what you eat. If 
someone spills on you, or if a little potato salad 
attaches itself to your sleevekeep it! Wear it 
once, twice, or all season. The snack will 
double as a conversation piece!

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 13,1987

Geek-dom: Detecting It, Avoiding It
By HOWDY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter
Theres a problem at Carnegie Mellon. (You 
know, CMU. In Pittsburgh. The un-University.) A big problem. I know were all adults 
here, so I hope I can be frank. I want everybody 
to stay calm, so together we can come up with 
a rational solution to this problem. Remember, 
dont get excited. Im sure we can work some
thing out. Ready?
WERE SURROUNDED BY GEEKS AT 
THIS SCHOOL!
Whew! I feel better now that Ive gotten that 
off my chest. Its something thats been wor
rying me for quite some timeever since they 
announced diskette day to lure students out of 
the computer cluster and get a fan or two at that 
football game. (Hey, it worked. I was there, 
and I actually saw the other fan. And when the 
team scored, we both cheered. It was quite a 
thrill.)
First, we need to clarify something for all you 
parents out there who actually pay money to 
subscribe to this newspaper. A geek is a nerd. 
An anti-social person. A dweeb. (You know, I 
think I just made history. Thats probably the 
first time the word dweeb ever appeared in 
print.) Silly me, when I started this article I 
thought for sure that everyone knew what a 
geek was. But I actually talked with one lady 
in the Tartan Grill who didnt understand the 
words geek and nerd. She spoke perfect 
English. And no, she wasnt from Ohio.
Anyway, I set out to get to the bottom of the 
geek issue. Do we have any at CMU? Where 
do they hang out? How can you pick them out 
of a crowd? How do you avoid them? I asked 
some other students what they thought.
Most people agree on the basics. A geek 
wears slightly out-of-style clothes that dont 
quite fit. Hes skinny and typically wears
glasses. A 
pocket guard  
that gizmo that 
keeps your pens 
from leaking all 
over your shirt 
pocketis op
tional equip
ment. According 
to one sopho
more, a geek is 
someone who 
wears dress 
socks with tennis 
shoes. Several 
other students 
told me that 
geeks usually 
wear polyester 
pants that are a 
little short. /
A commercial 
break here. Help 
me out. Do you 
call pants that are 
PUU TEUhP X.gUUOT<
Uh XEAlEu\ePShTq; -h OU rUo 2egg PESw TUwS8
PEARl SgTS SRPAhSgr; k EeO RSaSh ESehO PES PShw 
XEAlEu\ePShT< S.UhSf oP werS PEePT oTP 
S2eoTS kw AlRUheRP FEAT AT TUhP U. gAiS PES 
XnUn< aTb XTUOe< OSePSb WUUif kw TUhhrf 
oP XTUOe< AT oTP 2ehURePSO \ePShb mPo.. gAiS 
xUiS AT XnUnb< k. rUo PEARi UPESh\ATSf PESR 
rUo Pegi .oRRrbB
In any event, I wish some of you fashion
able types would start wearing floods. 
Theres so much groundwater here the bot
toms of my pants get wet every time I walk 
anywhere, and if floods were in, wed all 
be a lot happier. And dryer. Come on, CMU, 
show me your ankles!
Okay, back to 
the geek issue. If 
you read the edi
torial in the Tartan 
last week, you 
saw the editors 
wondering about 
the significance 
of the fourteen 
degree tilt to the 
CMU square. (I 
iRU\f rUo TiAnnSO 
hAlEP UaSh PES SOA8
PUhAegT PU PES jSe8
PohST TS2PAURb k 
.UhlAaS rUobB k 
EeaS OAT2UaShSO 
PES eRT\Shb jUoh8
PSSR OSlhSST AT PES 
eRlgS e lSSiT .SSP 
TPA2i UoP \ESR ES 
\egiTb -RS TPo8
OSRP \UROShSO 
\ESPESh PEShS 
wAlEP S e OUogS 
TAlRA.A2eR2S PU 
.UohPSSR OSlhSSTb >erS PEePT EU\ wo2E 
PESrgg PohR PES .UUPegg .ASgO AR PEAT \SSiT 
weTPSh ngeR;B
Carnegie Mellon does not discriminate on the 
basis of sex. It says so right in our course catalog. 
(They still wouldnt let me join the Field Hockey 
team.) So I asked people whether there are any 
girl geeks. There was no real consensus. The 
only thing everyone agrees on is that girl geeks, 
if they exist, are very rare. One student told me 
that girl geeks wear purple acrylic sweaters, but 
Im not too sure of her reliability. She also said 
that geeks wear brown leather shoes. I looked 
down at her brown penny loafers and tried 
hardnot to smile.
0
'floridi
Where do geeks hang out? The general opin
ion is that you could find a geek at any time of 
the day by looking either in Grey Matter or in 
the video game zone next to the Tartan Grill.
So if you are a geek maybe you should drop in 
and say salutations or something. (Someone 
should advertise all across campus: Geek? 
Nerd? Thinking about it? Come play video 
games!)
Now get ready. Here comes the bottom line. 
Were all pretty proud to go to a school that is 
iRU\R \UhgOu\AOS .Uh APT 2UwnoPShTb dSeggrb
Im sure the fact that CMU developed Andrew 
will improve the value of a design degree a 
hundredfold.) So I imagine the connection 
between geeks and computers is unavoidable.
According to my sources, geeks speak comnoPShuSTS gAiS APT PESAh RePAaS geRloelSb 
>erS AP ATb kR .e2Pf kaS wSP NoAPS e .S\ nSUngS 
\EU iRU\ IeT2eg TrRPeD SPPSh PEeR PESr iRU\ 
English syntax. Hey, maybe we can make that 
a test for geekhood. Sure, just by living at 
CMU you tend to pick up some hacker termi
nology. Dont worry if you know what a 
Micom is. But there is some cause for con
cern if, every now and then, you spend four 
hours in a computer cluster writing a program 
for fun. And if someone ever asks your name 
and you give them your user-id, youre beyond 
hope.
According to some of my sourcesthe 
double-E majorsgeek attacks occur regu
larly, especially after youve been up all night 
hacking. The solution? I generally try to sleep 
it off, one junior electrical engineer com
mented. But he agreed that if youre hit with a 
really bad attack, you should seek help. Call 
campus security at x2323. But you should also 
order pizza at the same time. It will get there 
first, and youll be able to have a snack while 
youre waiting for help.
V
ClipperShip
Dance Cruise
October 23, Friday 10:00 pm - 1:00 am
transportation included
Bus leaving - 9:00 Skibo parking lot
$9.00 / person $16.00 / couple 
Tickets @ info desk Monday - Friday 9-5 
semi-formal sponsored by SDC

---------------------------------------------------

October 13,1987The TartanPage 13
October is Crime Prevention MonthConcerned Parents and Security Offer Tips on Safety
By JUDY HARABURDA
Assistant Features Editor
On April 5,1986,19-year-old Lehigh fresh
man Jeanne Ann Cleary was raped and 
strangled. According to police, the 20-yearold Lehigh student charged with her rape and 
murder entered her dorm through an emer
gency exit that had been propped open and 
wandered the halls of the women  s floor trying 
doorknobs. Jeanne Clearys door was un
locked, and as he searched for valuables, she 
awoke.
Her parents are suing Lehigh for $25 million 
for negligence in the death of their daughter. 
The Cleary s have also launched a campaign to 
make available to prospective college students 
information about campus security through a 
questionnaire.
The tragic murder of Jeanne Cleary points to 
the increasing number of crimes against stu
dents on college campuses. The designation of 
October as Crime Prevention Month is a 
reminder, especially to students, not to take 
unnecessary risks.
In response to the Clearys questionnaire, 
Pitt Security reports 54 robberies, 104 as
saults, 64 burglaries, and 35 criminal tres
passes over the past three years. Walt Waters, 
Assistant Director of Public Safety at Pitt, 
advises students to avoid Oakland on Friday 
and Saturday nights because the she* volume
PE NNS YLLANv A
of people, coming from all over the Pittsburgh 
area, creates a security problem.
James LaPaglia, Carnegie Mellons newly 
appointed Director of Security, claims that 
most crimes of property occur because prop
erty is left out in the open and most burglaries 
occur because a door is left open. He advises 
students to secure property such as televisions, 
stereos, and computers, to record serial num
bers, and to identify items with invisible ink or 
by participating in Operation Identification. 
Operation I.D. helps prevent burglaries by
warning criminals that valuables are easily 
identifiable. An electric engraver is used to 
conspicuously mark property with your 
drivers license number and an Operation I.D. 
stick is placed on doors or windows to warn 
a potential thief that valuables are marked. If 
property is stolen, this identification makes 
recovery easier. If you are interested in Opera
tion I.D., please contact Security.
Campus police has recently added a foot 
patrol to the North dorms (Morewood and 
Mudge)from 11 pm to 7 am. An officer checks 
for open windows, propped-open doers and 
other security hazards and may enter lobbies 
but does not enter living areas. In addition, a 
separate car partrols off-campus housing.
So far this year, no sexual assaults, robberies 
or muggings have been reported. There have, 
however, been incidents of indecent exposure 
on Flagstaff Hill and in Schenley Park. LaPaglia advises students not to walk alone, to be 
wary of isolated areas and to use the Escort 
Service.
A female CMU employee walking in 
Oakland had her purse stolen when a car came 
up behind her and someone jumped out and 
yanked her purse. LaPaglia recommends fac
ing traffic when walking and not to putting up 
a fight if accosted.
Rip-off artists are certainly busy on campus 
this year. Non-campus persons offer to sell
concert tickets, take student's money, promis
ing to return with tickets, and never come 
back.
CMUs security department is hosting a 
convention of crime prevention officers in 
Western Pennsylvania, with a presentation on 
Acquaintance Rape. The department, in 
addition, is bringing a program of crime pre
vention awareness to dorms through talks and 
brochures.
Here are a few safety Do's and Donts:
DO keep your door locked, even if you leave 
for a minute or are taking a nap, and especially 
if you are alone at night.
DO ask who is knocking before you open the 
door.
DONT lend your keys to anyone or leave 
them lying around.
DO report it if your key is lost or stolen.
DO record the model number, serial number, 
and description of valuables.
DONT walk alone or in dark, isolated areas 
and avoid shortcuts.
DO go to a lighted area or home or where 
there are people and call police if you think 
someone is following you.
DONT resist if you are held up.
DO try to get a good description of suspi
cious persons.
DO lock your car and park in well-lit areas.
DO use common sense to protect yourself.
Senate Starts LastLecture Series
PITTSBURGHSuppose next week you 
were to give the Last Lecture you would ever 
give. And you could speak about anything you 
wanted. Anything. What would you choose? 
This is an excerpt from a letter sent by the 
Academic Affairs Committee of the Student 
Senate to all faculty and administration last 
week to invite them to participate in the 
LastLectures...series, a newly created series of
lectures designed to allow the campus com
munity to see the faculty and administration in 
a non-academic environment.
Dean Ed Lilley of Student Affairs has of
fered to kickoff the series on Tuesday, October 
20 at 4:30 in Gregg Hall. The topic he will 
address is The Serious Business of Play. 
Other lectures will be on November 10 and 
December 1 in Gregg Hall.
Get Your Flu Shots Now
PITTSBURGHFlu injections will be 
given at the Carnegie Mellon University 
Student Health Office, E101 Morewood 
Gardens, on four dates in October: Wed
nesday, the 14th; Friday, the 16th; Wednes
day, the 21st; and Friday, the 23rd. The 
injections will be given from 1:00pm to 
4:00pm on these dates. The following
people are eligible: those over 55 years of 
age; those with chronic health problems, 
diabetes, or heart, lung, or kidney disease; 
people advised by their family M.D. to 
receive the shot; anyone who has had his 
spleen removed; and anyone on medica
tion to suppress the immune system. The 
cost is $3.00.
HOWARD JOHNSON
University Center Hotel
t-M/d0 v-tsm-s t-FcW ksFd-07xcm 7skycdmkF) d/Fcm
IAPPTohlEf I/b mSnPSwSh zGfG!4 ( tU\ehO vUERTUR 7RAaShTAPr xSRPSh tUPSg 
\Agg U..Sh PU IehSRPTf /gowRAf eRO aATAPUhT PU PES 7RAaShTAPr e qmIcxk/W 7skycd8
mkF) d/Fcbq MS hSegA5SO e .S\ rSehT elU AP \eT RUP SRUolE PU S qeT lUUO eT UPESh 
EUPSgTfq \S woTP S SPPShb /P PEeP nUARP \S SleR eR ellhSTTAaS hS.ohATEARl 
nhUlhewb /gg TgSSnARl hUUwT eRO nogA2 ehSeT U. PES EUPSg EeaS SSR 2UwngSPSgr 
hSOS2UhePSO AR \ehw hA2E PURSTb
/gTU \S \UogO gAiS PU ARPhUOoS PU rUo Uoh RS\ TEoPPgS aeR TShaA2S hoRRARl 
PEhUolEUoP PES oRAaShTAPr 2ewnoT eRO -eigeRO ehSeb -h ogPAwePS lUeg AT PU wSSP
PES RSSOT U. Uoh loSTPb xegg oT F-WWujdcc .Uh .ohPESh AR.UhwePAUR eRObbbbb
ngSeTeRP TohnhATS:
IN PENNSYLVANIA 
CALL 800-441-3979
3401 Boulevard of the Allies 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 
683-6100OUTSIDE OF PENNSYLVANIA 
CALL 800-245-4444

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanOctober 13,1987
Bill Elliott Elaborates on New University Center
continued from page 11
talk a bit about your involvement with and 
perceptions of the Student Center project and 
all of the changes that the plans are currently 
undergoing? Quite a bit has already been writ
ten, but Im not sure that students really under
stand why the plans are changing so much.
Elliott: Well youre talking to a guy whos 
on the jury for this project. I was involved 
when there was initial discussion about 
whether or not we would build a new gym. 
Obviously we didnt get as far on that idea as 
we have with the student center, but we pur
sued it, had some drawings made, talked about 
having a field house built or a big gym. But 
student activity facilities are more important 
to this institution than intercollegiate activi
ties. Were talking about recreation space for 
everybody, which gets you out of the field 
house-gymnasium idea and gets you talking 
about what has evolved into the student center 
idea.
So as we moved from field house to univer
sity center, we entertained the idea of holding 
a competition to try to reinstate a sense of the 
importance of the aesthetic of this campus. I 
dont think we would have gotten something 
as appropriate to this campus without a com
petition. We would have gotten a building, but 
thats about it. These people were competing 
to get the job. They didnt get the job and then 
have to produce. The competition got them to 
push a little harder so I think we probably got 
a better design. We got more thought at the 
front. So I think the competition has produced 
something for us that we never would have 
had. Obviously the question now is whether or 
not we can pull all this off. I guess Ive got the 
eternal optimism. Everyone is really a product 
of where they come from. You cant be in 
college admissions for 15 years and not have 
some optimistic ideas. Youve got to be up in 
this business and I guess Im up to the point 
that I think well eventually do it.
Tartan: All of it?
Elliott: I think well ultimately do all of it. 
When and how? Obviously thats the fun of the 
chase. Its going to take time and its going to 
take work and a lot of sweat. But if its worth 
it itll get done and if its not worth doing, itll 
eventually fail.
Tartan : OK, now talk a bit about all the 
current refinements being made in the plans.
Elliott: Back in May when the award was 
made to Dennis & Clark [the architectural firm 
that won the student center competition] it was
with the stipulation that the jury would recon
vene in the fall to ensure the fact that the 
program was adhered to and the budget was 
made and the project was still following the 
spirit of the architectural statement that was 
originally made. We did reconvene with all the 
data last Wednesday and all the jurors were 
there. We listened to the presentation by 
Dennis & Clark and talked about the trade-offs 
that would have to be made because of budget 
restrictions. Thats good ol Carnegie Mellon 
language. Obviously were making alterna
tive choices now.
We continue to think and rethink the ques
tion of the eighthmile track; Id love to have 
a quarter -mile track indoors but obviously we 
have to live within the constraints that weve 
set up for ourselves. The track has caused the 
most immediate problems. The proposal right 
now is to build an eleventh -mile track. Thirty 
million dollars is the limiting factor.
Tartan: Is that the current budget for the 
student center?
Elliott: Yes, thats it exactly. But the track 
really is not the [major issue], the issue is to 
build a student recreation space, an intramural 
recreation space and sure, if it includes an 
eighth mile track, so be it. We want to build a
25-by-50 swimming pool. Thats olympicsized. When we went into this we wanted to 
build a pool that would satisfy recreational and 
intramural swimming needs but also intercol
legiate swimming. This is the only spot where 
weve made a commitment to provide a facil
ity for intercollegiate sports in the university 
center. Our current pool is not satisfactory to 
meet the needs of recreational and intramural 
swimming, it also happens not to be satisfac
tory for intercollegiate swimming.
The fields are also very important to us, 
intercollegian fields, a track, the IM fields. 
Obviously were going to build artificial sur
faces, which has caused some concern. Were 
also building an all-weather track. Theres nc 
sense in building a huge indoor running facil
ity when theres going to be a new outdoor 
running facility.
Tartan: Youve probably worked more 
closely with students, at least potential stu
dents, than most of the administrators here. 
How will that experience impact on the per
ceptions and attitudes that you bring with you 
to your new job?
Elliot: Im one person that has spent a whole 
lot of time worrying about this institution vis a 
vis those other ten or twelve schools that most 
students who walk this campus also thought 
about when they went to college, thats any
thing from Northwestern to Duke to Univer
sity of Pennsylvania to Cornell. Obviously 
Ive got my eye on what isthat other good 
Carnegie Mellon wordwhat is our competi
tive advantage and what is our competitive 
disadvantage? Id like to be in all things at least 
equal to everybody else and ahead in a couple 
of things.
Well, it appears right now that we are ahead 
in a couple of things, but it appears to me that 
were not up to the standard in recre^tipnal 
facilities. Well its a standard management 
strategy that you dont just want to play catch
up, you want to leap frog and thats what this 
institution has been so good at. Weve done 
that educationally and weve done that with 
computers, and I think were conceivably on 
the brink of doing that with student facilities.
If we can think our way to being better than 
everyone else for $30 million, and I dont want 
to minimize that sum of money, then I think 
thats Carnegie Mellon, isnt it? Some institu
tions solve problems just by throwing money 
at it, but this institution doesnt have huge 
discretionary sums of money, so weve got to 
think our way through this thing, have fun. 1 
think we know a lot about whats happening on 
Carnegie Mellons campus because weve 
been able to articulate the state of CMU to 
prospective students. I dont think anybody 
comes here with false impressions. So Ive 
spent a lot of time being a realist, saying Lets 
talk about where we are and where were going 
to be rather than some grandiose scheme. I 
end up being the conscience of the institution 
to some degree.
There are going to be young people who 
come here as freshmen, and were going to 
have to give them a good experience in their 
four years here; its not just a question of 
where were going to be in twenty years oi 
where we were twenty years ago. That doesnt 
mean that people ought not to think about what 
were going to do four and five years from 
now, Ive been thinking about that, but you 
cant dwell on that to the exclusion of thinking 
about today.
I think that Ive got a lot to learn. I think there 
are some experiences that I can bring to help 
other parts of the institution. In Enrollment, 
you think maybe eighteen or twenty-four 
months ahead, I dont want to lose sight of the 
importance of that activity, but I have to kind 
of shift and start thinking three and four and 
five years out. I dont have any magic solution 
for how to do this other than what Ive done to 
date, keep your head down, keep your eyes 
open, and listen a lot.
xegg rUoh wowwr
For besesAebt Pue was 
always tuebe wuen yor webe 
fbigutenedt And if yor got urbt, 
sue was standing Ay witu Aan
dagest Worldnt it feel good 
to talk to yorb sotueb again 
bigut now?
Calling oveb AT&T Long 
Distance Pebvice pboAaAly 
costs less tuan yor tuink, toot 
And if yor uave any qrestions 
aAort AT&T bates ob sebvice, 
a crstoseb sebvice bepbe
sentative is always standing 
Ay to talk to yort Jrst call 
1 800 2220300.
Prbe, yorb scuoolwobk and 
yorb fbiends keep yor Arsyt 
Brt call uose and find ort 
wuat sues wbapped rp int
AT&T
The right choice.

---------------------------------------------------

October 13,1987The TartanPage 15
photo by Andy Gillespie
PHI Player of the Game Chris Hansen (32) receives a helpful block from senior halfback
pr sckW dccspW7>
Tartan Contributing Editor
Chris Hansen had something to prove Satur
day.
The junior fullback from Hempfield HS was 
knocked out of the Tartans 1987 opener ver
sus Allegheny with a sprained knee. He 
watched his backup, sophomore Eric Polkis, 
fracture his foot the following week. Thirdstringer Fran Bellante, a freshman, stepped in 
next, but Bellantes performance in victories 
over Duquesne and John Carroll was anything 
but third-rate.
Head Trainer Keith Gorse gave Hansen the 
nod to return to action Saturday against Hiram, 
but Offensive Coordinator Rich Erdelyi gave 
Bellante the starting nod.
With 3:57 left in the opening quarter, Marvin 
Germany recovered a Hiram fumble. Enter 
Hansen for his 1987 debut, version two.
Hansen runs for eight yards. Hansen off 
tackle for three more and a first down. Hansen 
on a misdirection for nine yards. The Tartans 
would have a field goal blocked in this series, 
but the 6' 0", 212 lb. upperclassman would 
later run for two touchdowns and 47 total yards 
on 13 carries, en route to Panther Hollow Inn 
(PHI) Player of the Game honors. Bellante 
would not see any more action this day.
Hansen has now gained 63 yards for 'the 
season in 17 attempts for Carnegie Mellon. 
His two TDs and two pass receptions vs. 
Hiram were his first two of the year in both 
categories.
An industrial management major, Hansen 
gained the starting fullback job last year the 
same way Bellante did this season. The nowgraduated Anthony Collaros was hurt early in 
the 1986 campaign; Hansen replaced him. 
Running in the powerful mold set by Tartan 
fullback alumni Jim Morrison (IM 84) and 
Vic Boland (H 86), Hansen was Carnegie 
Mellons second-leading rusher a year ago 
with 319 yards and five scores.
But theres one difference from a year ago. 
Collaros never did win his job back. But 
Hansen has, and he no longer has anything to 
prove.The Tartans 
CNHL Preview
continued from page 18
the Flames and Jets for the top spot. But 
another fierce battle between Winnipeg and 
Calgary for second will end up with Calgary 
on top. Although Calgary will be tough, the 
Oilers will prevail and after disposing with the 
Maple Leafs in the Campbell Conference fi
nals they will face the Flyers in a much antici
pated rematch. Except this time the Flyers will 
prevail.

William Heiser (31) in the open Held.Baseball Regroups For Spring
continued from page 18
lead to five St. Vincent runs. The Tartans got 
offensive production from many sources, as 
Bruce Nibbelink, Rick Chimera, Perry Pierce, 
Dan Bly, and Glen Numaguchi all produced 
one safety a piece. Senior Pat Carey led the 
way for the Tartans against St. Vincent, as he 
banged out two doubles, while freshman Char
lie Jankowski smashed two singles of his own.
The Tartans held a Beaver County team that 
had slaughtered them three weeks earlier to 
only 9 runs, but did not put any in their own 
column. The Tartans only managed four hits 
off the Titans, as Perry Pierce led the way with 
two singles. A double by Charlie Jankowski 
went to waste in the early innings, as well as a 
single by senior Bruce Nibbelink. Tartan 
hurler Kevin Murtha went 5 innings and only 
gave up three runs, two earned, on six hits.
Against Penn State, the Tartans put in their 
best effort of the year, falling short due to a 
lack of clutch hitting. Penn State jumped out 
to a 1 -0 lead in their half of the second, as Todd 
Kams single and an error by second baseman 
Rick Chimera plated the run.
New Kensington also scored in the third be
fore the Tartans struck back in their fourth 
inning charge. A one out walk to Bruce 
Nibbelink followed by two two-out singles by 
seniors John Reese and Paul Masalsky loaded 
the bases. John Tafe then came up with the 
bases loaded, but the third pitch to Tafe rolled 
all the way back to the screen to score Nibbe
link. The threat; however, was contained as 
Penn State hurler Tony Valasek pitched him
self out of the jam by getting Pierce on a weak
popup behind second base.
In the later innings, the Tartan defense 
started to fail them, errors allowed New Ken
sington to score two more and take the 4-1 
decision. Tartan pitcher Kevin Murtha went 
the distance, allowing the four runs, three 
earned, with six strikeouts.
The Tartans end their fall campaign with an 
0-7 record, but that does not dash their hopes 
for a good spring. There is a lot of young talent 
that is just needs time to develop. There are 
many freshmen that have worked their way 
into key roles, and are getting to face a lot of 
good pitching. In the beginning of the year the 
Tartans were looking at a lot of pitchers, but 
that was not so towards the end of the season. 
Carnegie Mellon was getting good hitting 
from many players, new and old, and started to 
make the fielding plays that good teams should 
make.
The Tartans start their spring season in April, 
but will be swinging all winter in the gymna
sium, hoping to put together a more consistent 
team for 1988.
continued from page 17
BOWLING
Commissioner Randy Brown x5501 
League play begins on Saturday, Oc
tober 24th. Half of the bowling fees 
must be paid before the first match. All 
games will be rolled at Strand Lanes in 
Oakland on Saturday mornings at 10 
am.
WATER POLO
Commissioner Hal Levine x5981 
Play began last week; schedules are 
available in the IM office.
TENNIS
Commissioner Mike Hayes x4086 
Please play all games as scheduled and 
turn in the winning scores to the IM 
office as soon as possible.
TEAM TABLE TENNIS 
Commissioner Bob Koca x8975 
Schedules are out and can be picked up 
AR PES IM U..A2Sb FES .AhTP hUoRO U. nger 
AT T2ESOogSO PU SlAR jhAOerf -2PUSh 
16th.
CHESS
Commissioner Matt Murbach x3934 
Schedules are available to be picked 
up in the IM office anytime.
RACQUETBALL 
Commissioner Carl Bell x5509 
Games start this week. Play the best 
out of three singles matches. Schedules 
can be picked up in the IM office.
FACULTY/STAFF VOLLEYBALL 
Commissioner E.J. Birdy x2214 
Teams interested in playing in a noon
time volleyball league please contact 
Mr. Birdy. There will also be a 
womens only league. Action is slated 
to begin Thursday, October 15th.
SPORTS DUE OCTOBER 22nd
Darts and three person volleyball.
nPAYlESS 521-5700
GAR RENTAL
ALSO DBA HOLIDAY' RAYLESS RENT-A-CAR
Our Name Says It All*
5600 Wilkins Ave. 
Pgh. Pa. 15217 
(Squirrel Hill)
 Low Daily - Weekly Rates . Weekend Specials
 Must be 21 or over
 Most Major Credit Cards Accepted 
(Students and Parents cards accepted.)
15 and 7 Passenger Vans available also
 1/2 mile from Campus 
Worldwide To! free Reservations 1-800-237-2804 or Cai Ybur level Agent
Whenyou want to findyour 
HigherSejf let the experts show you how
The Ascended Masters are not just 
people who happen to be on the 
other side. They are extraordinary 
individuals who have spent many lives 
on earth, overcome their karma and 
ascended to God.
Now they want to help us. They 
come with teaching, prophecy, ancient 
wisdom, light, energy, mantras, and 
scientific techniques to help our
planet and ourselves. Elizabeth Clare Prophet has been their Messenger 
since 1964. When the Age of Aquarius dawned, she was delivering their 
dictations to the new age movement. Long before it was fashionable 
to "connect" she was showing people their Higher Selves. Now she 
is stumping across America for Saint Germain's Coming Revolution in 
Higher Consciousness...
Saint Germain on America's 
destiny and spiritual alchemy 
by the violet flam
Gemstones for the seven 
chakras charged by the Lords of 
the Seven Rays 
1 Chakra initiations
The 'Reeling of the servants of 
God in their foreheads" by the 
emerald matrix Rev. 7 
(third-eye initiation)
1 The healing power of the Seven 
Archangels
 Dictation by an Ascended Master
Elizabeth Clare Prophet
Author of The Lost Years of Jesus and Saint Germain On Prophecy
Wedt, Oct 14  PittsArbgu  Tue Westin Willias Penn 7 ps-sidnigut  Adsission $8t50 Ptrdents and seniob citizens: $5  Call (412) 367-5135
Hansen Returns in Player of the Game FormThe IM Report

---------------------------------------------------

Page 16The TartanOctober 13,1987
WANTED !!
ICE HOCKEY PLAYERS 
FOR:
CMU HOCKEY TEAM !!!
MEETINGS ON TUESDAYS @ 4:00 PM FOR 
PRACTICE, MEET @ SKIBO BANK MACHINES
IF INTERESTED, CALL:
SEAN @ X5358 GREG @ 771-6576 
RICH @ 681-5715
rtnSfw ieAsN Edasodj'wk
5168 PENN AVE.Pkone< 363
16 INCHPEPPERONI PIZZA $4.l<n
Saturday 11 am - 2 am
Sunday through Friday 3 pm - 2 am
photo by Andy Gillespie
IhAUh PU SARl OS2gehSO >hb eRO >ATT yehTAPrf 2eROAOePST WUoAT xTei eRO sePegAS 
xenURS ehS ST2UhPSO URPU PES .ASgO OohARl mePohOerT lewS eleARTP tAhewb
STUDENTS
Time: 12 Noon and 5:15 pm
(1 hour sessons)
When: October 19 to December 7,1987
Fee: $50 for an 8-week program,
payable at registration
Registration: All week in Skibo or
Student Affairs Office WH #206
Sponsored by: The Health Education Dept./ 
Division of Student Affairs
Field Hockey Splits, But Retains First
WEIGHT WATCHERS
ATWORK/SCHOOL PROGRAM
is being offered at CMU
G ES WeOr FehPeRT UR PES wUaS eleARTP PES jAhTP WeOAST U. MeTEARlPUR eRO vS..ShTURb
pr mt/jk 1t/s 
Tartan Staffer iter 
kP \eT e PUolE gUTT .Uh PES MUwSRT jASgO 
tU2iSr PSew PU T\eggU\b FESr ngerSO AR8
PSRTSgr .Uh = wARoPSTf eleARTP e SPPSh PSewf 
kROAeRe 7RAaShTAPr U. ISRRTrgaeRAef URgr PU 
gUTS r e wehlAReg Gu= T2UhSb FESAh .hoTPhe8
PAURT OAOR  P 2ehhr UaSh PU PESAh RSDP UnnURSRPTf 
MeTEARlPUR " vS..ShTURf \EUw PESr SeTAgr 
OS.SePSO $u=b FES TngAP wUaST PES PSewT 
hS2UhO PU uQuGb FESr ehS $uG eRO 2ohhSRPgr 
TAPPARl UR .AhTP nge2S AR PES IhSTAOSRPT /PEgSPA2 
xUR.ShSR2S I/xB r e Eeg. lewS UaSh pSu
PEeRr eRO tAhewf \EU PASO AR e lewS ngerSO 
PEAT neTP mePohOerb FES FehPeRT EeaS e 2ho2Aeg 
lewS PUOer U<* FS2E jASgO eP $ nw eleARTP 
pSPEeRrf S2eoTS e \AR \UogO 2gAR2E PES OAaA8
TAUR .Uh PESwb
FES .AhTP lewS \eT aShr 2gUTS eT UPE PSewT 
TEehSO weRr UnnUhPoRAPAST PU T2UhSb FES Feh8
PeRT OUwARePSO PES .AhTP Eeg. eT PESAh U..SRTS 
2URPARoeggr wUoRPSO nhSTTohS oP 2UogO RSaSh 
T2UhSb FES egg 2URPhUg \eT oTP eUoP SaSR AR 
PES TS2URO Eeg. oRPAg gePS AR PES lewS \ESR k7I 
T2UhSO \APE ennhUDAwePSgr SAlEP wARoPST gS.Pb 
FES TEUP \eT TEUogOSh EAlEf oP e.PSh TUwS
The field was slightly muddy because the 
baseball diamond ran across a part of the field, 
but this didnt seem to affect the Tartans. They 
scored two in the first half; Lisa Vandermeer 
scored both of them, with Maya Sternberg 
assisting on the first one and Eirene 
Yamamura on the second one.
Maureen Yim added a goal early in the sec
ond half with an assist by Vandermeer to 
increase the Lady Tartans' lead to 3-0. Sarah 
Fay wrapped up the scoring with an unassisted 
goal late in the match, making the final score
OAT2oTTAUR r PES U..A2AegT AP \eT 2eggSO e lUeg 
e.PH OSSwARl PES TEUP \eTRP OeRlShUoTb kP 
\eT AROSSO e aShr PUolE eRO 2gUTS lewS eT 
xUe2E >20U\Sgg S2EUSO PES .SSgARlT U. PES 
PSew \ESR TES TeAOfX MS 2URPhUggSO PES lewS, 
\S EeO wUhS TEUPT UR lUeg PEeR PESr OAOf wUhS 
nSRegPr 2UwShT PEeR PESr OAOf oP PESr EeO URS 
wUhS T2UhS PEeR \S EeOb<
The second game of the week was played at 
Washington, and the squad came back with a 
4-0 thrashing of the First Ladies. The Tartans 
outshot W&J 22-2, completely dominating the
I

---------------------------------------------------

October 13,1987The TartanPage 17
Overcoming Anprx Words with California...
Tennis Team Surges Into PACs
pr sc/W /b Wcycsc
Tartan Stajfwriter
The Womens Tennis Team put the finishing 
touches on an excellent regular Presidents 
Athletic Conference season last week with 
wins against Washington and Jefferson and 
California University of Pennsylvania.
With the regular season over, the Lady Tar
tans are now setting their sights towards their 
second consecutive PAC title,which they will 
be competing for this weekend at John Carroll.
On last Monday, the women travelled to 
Washington & Jefferson College to finish up a 
match previously begun on September 24. It 
had been interrupted by rain with one singles 
match and the doubles matches left to be 
played. Without notice to the Lady Tartans,
the First Ladies forfeited both at#l singles and 
#1 doubles. The #2 double team of Captain 
Andrea Benowitz and Sohee Chung lost 1-6, 
5-7. The #3 doubles team of Amy Fibus and 
Tracy Boyd won 7-6,6-1. The final result was 
CMU 3, W&J 0.
Thursday, the women shut out California, 9- 
0. In a relatively easy match for Boyd, 
California's Kris Laughlin had trouble controllinh her temper. Finally, Boyd had to 
complain about Laughlins attitude and use of 
foul language on the court. In #3 doubles Cali
fornia University was forced to default the 
match to Tracy Boyd and Amy Fibus due to 
Laughlin. According to #4 Amy Fibus, The 
point was over and she [Laughlin] just 
whipped the ball at my face. I told her that I
t
O
Spring Carnival
ig88
ATTN: Organization Booth Chairmen
0UST rUoh UhleRA5ePAUR \eRP PU oAgO e UUPE .Uh mnhARl 
xehRAaeg G!44; k. TUf PESR ngSeTS ngeR PU ePPSRO PES .UggU\ARl 
weROePUhr pUUPE wSSPARlTC
-2PUSh z!f 4C==I>f dUUw Gz miAU 
sUaSwSh f 4C==I>f dUUw GQ miAU 
sUaSwSh Gzf 4C==I>f dUUw GQ miAU
If you have any questions, call David Lyons at 521*4668 or send mail to 
dllz@andrew.
j/ 'y -tz  V
l960%UHiU3fc. <#)'J ? 
TU'tJ t LfCo
friszi
Pg R C S fcWf LIT 
S*T\ 7>'J tl X\ M 
 )\sf LT)
U tz-;(7) t: V * 7. t&t
IlsV frS&Afc 
l'I
Recruit Co., Ltd. employment openings currently include opportunities in 
Tokyo, New York and Los Angeles for Application Analysts, Market 
Analysts, System Engineers, Sales Engineers and Administrative 
Coordinators.
For more information, call our toll-free numbers listed below or 
write Recruit U.S.A., Inc.
o RECRUIT U.S.A., INC.  :
725 S. Figueroa St., 31st Floor TOLL FREE
Los Angeles, CA 90017 California (800) 423-3387
Other (800)325-9750
didnt think that was necessary, and she told 
me to f off.
The California University coach had a talk 
with her player. On Fibuss first serve to 
Laughlin, Fibus hit an extremely returnable 
ball that landed right in the middle of the 
service box. Laughlin just stood there refusing 
to return Fibuss serve. Laughlins coach told 
her that if she wasnt going to try harder she 
shouldn t be on the court. At that point Laugh
lin walked off the court forfeiting the match to 
Carnegie Mellon. In all other areas the match 
was played without incident.
Benowitz is very confident about the upcom
ing PAC Championship, We are much better 
than we were last year, and we won last year 
even after we had to forfeit at #4 singles. I 
really think our only problem could be Grove 
City.
Beth Cavanaugh (#2), Boyd (#5), and Alice 
Garber (#6) are all undefeated in PAC compe
tition and will be ranked #1 in the tournament. 
The rest of the team members have suffered 
only two PAC losses apiece. At #1, Suzy 
Dottor has only lost to John Carroll and Grove 
City, while Benowitz (#3) and Fibus (#4) have 
only been defeated by Grove City and W&J.
The team's current record is 7-1 (4-1 in the 
PAC), with their only loss coming last week to 
Grove City.
The PAC championships will be played on 
Thursday and Friday, October 15-16 at John 
Carroll. The Lady Tartans will also be com
peting in the University Athletic Association 
Championship at Emory at the end of the 
month.
The IM Report
IM BOARD
Next meeting is scheduled for Thurs
day, October 15th at 1pm in the Gym 
conference room.
TOUCH FOOTBALL
Commissioners
Majors - Paul Masalsky x5468
Intermediate - Pat Jefferies x4299
Minors - Mike Grzywinski 681-2826
Playoffs scheduled for October 20th, 
21st, and 22nd. Finals to be held on 
Sunday October 25th as follows: Mi
nors Final 6:30, Intermediate Final 
7:30, Majors Final 8:30. Playoff sched
ule on IM bulletin board.
TEAM VOLLEYBALL 
Commissioner Stu Fox x4226 
Play has started with a record 67 
teams; schedules are now available in 
the Tartan office.
SOCCER
There will be an organizational meet
ing for all soccer teams and officials on 
Thursday, October 15th at 4:00 in the 
Womens gym. Officials signed up to 
referee soccer must be at the meeting. 
The soccer season will begin after the 
IM Football playoffs. The first games 
are tentatively scheduled for Wednes
day, October 28. The Soccer Officials 
Club is still taking officials, interested 
people should contact Mike Mastroianni at x2214.
continued on page 15
The Best Place In Town For A Wing Out!
Over a Dozen Sauces 
From Mild-Mild to 
Death Sauce!!
Opy& 3:30 p.m. TIH rR^^ 10 
FIS rR^^ 11 
Opy& Si&dCyB  rR^^ 8
CALL:421-WING
Our Ribs?
Best in the City
Mariani's Coast toCosst Dining Go id*
RIB HOUSE
Ribs  Chicken  Barbecue Specialties
2125 
MURRAY 
AVENUE 
(SQ. HILL)

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 13,1987
Soccer Sweeps, Hits .500
By JUDY GROSSMAN
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan soccer team boosted its overall 
record to 5-5 by defeating a tough Rochester 
team Wednesday and shutting out Grove City 
on Friday. The two victories brought the 
Tartans to .500 for the first time this season.
On Wednesday, University Athletic Asso
ciation opponent, Rochester University came 
onto Tech Field, and the Tartans pulled out an 
upset by defeating the formerly ninth ranked 
Yellowjackets, 1-0. Goalkeeper Glen 
Hoogerwerf recorded his first shutout for the 
Tartans.
The first half was scoreless with shots on 
goal few. Then, with 15 minutes left in the 
second half, on a shot that rebounded off of 
four Tartan players, freshmen midfielder 
Justin Pizzella chipped the ball into the comer 
of the net to give the Tartans a 1-0 lead that 
would prove to be sufficient to defeat the 
Yellowjackets. The Tartan defenders made 
some key plays near the Tartan goal late in the 
game to preserve the victory for Carnegie 
Mellon. Sophomore defender Chuck Shvanda 
said that the Tartans were psyched for the 
Rochester game. We were up for this game, 
he said. Especially after we scored that goal. 
That got us up.
Tartan Head Coach Nick Gaudioso was 
generally pleased with his teams perform
ance. Once we got settled down, we knew it 
was going to be a one-goal game, he said. It 
was good for us to play a team like Rochester.
Coming off of Wednesdays victory, the 
Tartans battled at Tech Field, shutting out 
Presidents Athletic Conference rival Grove 
City, 2-0. It was Hoogerwerfs second shutout 
in as many games. The Tartans will look for 
more quality play out of Hoogerwerf due to 
senior goalie John Semler recently quitting the 
team.
photo by Andy Gillespie
Junior Bob Stefanowicz defends as senior co-captain Kevin Jung looks on.
The game against the Wolverines was 
marked by the re-injury of Chris Kasabach, 
who went out in the first half. Kasabach did 
not return to the game, but he is expected to 
return to the lineup soon.
In the middle of the first half, Pizzella took 
the ball downfield and scored. His shot just 
cleared the outstretched arms of Grove Citys 
goalie and hit the upper comer of the net to 
give Carnegie Mellon a 1 -0 halftime lead. The 
score remained 1 -0 until midway in the second 
half when sophomore midfielder Eddie Park 
scored on a shot similar to Pizzellas. He took 
a pass from Pizzella and shot across the goal,
Sports Fans!
The Tartan is taking next week off, but check out the sports pages in two weeks
What happens 
when the world 
of high finance
A world of high success develops.
Merrill Lynch is looking for candidates 
with majors in Business, Liberal Arts and 
Technical Subjects to join our
Corporate Systems Program
We Will Be On Campus 
To Hold Information Sessions
October 14,1987 
7:00 to 9:00 pirn.
meets the world 
of high technology?
Merrill Lynch
)Uoh \UhgO TEUogO iRU\ 
RU UoROehASTb
past the diving goalie, giving the Tartans a 2- 
0 lead. The Wolverines were unable to score, 
and the game ended in another victory for 
Carnegie Mellon.
The win brought the Tartans to the .500 
mark. We achieved a great goal by reaching 
the .500 level, said Shvanda, who played 
excellent defense for the Tartans. Its a big 
boost mentally, and it gives us momentum 
going into the next game against Mt. Union, 
and it looks good to go .500.
The Tartans next game will be on Wednes
day, October 14 when they travel to take on 
Mt. Union College at 3:30.
Baseball Club 
Falls in Finale
By PERRY PIERCE
Tartan Staffwriter 
The Carnegie Mellon Baseball team closed 
out their 1987 fall season with three tough 
losses. The Tartans dropped a 10-6 decision to 
St. Vincent College, a 4-1 loss to Penn State 
New Kensington, and took a 9-0 collaring at 
the hands of Beaver County Community Col
lege.
Carnegie Mellon jumped out to an early 2-0 
lead against St. Vincent, but bases on balls 
turned the tide in favor of St. Vincent. Tartan 
pitchers gave up 10 free trips to first, which
continued on page 15
VV
Penguins 
vs. Oilers?
By DAVID BRILL
Tartan Assistant Sports Editor
As the Hockey season gets underway, 
what do we have to look forward to this 
year? With the NFL Strike and the scab 
games, this year more than ever, the 
NHL will be in the limelight. So will it 
be another rematch of the Flyers-Oilers 
or will some other team rise up to cap
ture the title? As the four divisions un
fold this year, there will be two out
standing playoff battles.
In the Patrick Division it will be, as 
usual, very tight and no team will be able 
to claim a real dominance considering 
the erratic tendencies of the Patrick 
Division in the playoffs. Two teams that 
have improved in the offseason are the 
New York Rangers and the Pittsburgh 
Penguins. The Rangers have made key 
additions to strengthen themselves by 
acquiring several players including 
John Ogradnick. And the Penguins 
picked up Charlie Simmer who looks to 
be a great compliment to Mario Lemeiux. But when it gets down to the 
nitty-gritty it will be the Flyers who will 
ultimately win the Patrick Division.
In the Adams Division it will also be a 
very tightly contested battle between 
the Nordiques,' Canadiens, and the 
Whalers. Quebec, although trading 
John Ogradnick, Dale Hunter and Clint 
Malarchuk will still be in good shape 
with a strong core of younger players in
cluding Jason Lafreniere and rookie 
Tommy Albelin. Montreal, who got to 
the Wales Conference finals last year, 
needs more scoring from their front line 
but will still be in good shape with their 
tough defense spearheaded by Larry 
Robinson. Also Hartford, who fell apart 
in the playoffs last year against Quebec, 
will be tough. In a three team race, it 
wont matter how they finish in the 
regular season, because it will be Que
bec who will rise in the playoffs and play 
Philadelphia in the Wales Conference 
finals.
In the Norris Division it doesnt usu
ally matter who wins the division, be
cause Toronto usually beats them in the 
playoffs. Although Detroit will proba
bly win the division, the winner of the 
Detroit-Toronto series will end up play
ing the Oilers in the Campbell Confer
ence finals and so it will be an AllCanadian final.
kR PES mwrPES 0AaATAURf cOwURPURf 
geTP rSehT 2EewnT TEUogO UaShnU\Sh
continued on page 15
Let's go bowling all night at 
Miracle Lanes!!"
jhAb " mePb RAlEPT
GzCQ= ew u 6C== ew onlyLb==
>Ahe2gS WeR2ST 
vURRSP Ige5e 
>URhUSaAggS I/ 
QzuQ==
Bring this ad and 
recieve FREE 
SHOE RENTAL

---------------------------------------------------

Scoreboard
Tartan Sports Calendar
October 13:
October 14 
October 15 
October 16 
October 17
October 18: 
October 19: 
October 20:
October 21: 
October 22: 
October 23:
October 24:
Volleyball vs Bethany at Skibo Gym, 7:00 pm
Field Hockey vs Bethany at Tech Field, 4:00 pm
Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3), 8:30 pm
Soccer at Mount Union, 3:30 pm
Volleyball vs Grove City, Carlow at Skibo Gym, 6:00 pm
Womens Tennis at PAC Championships at John Carroll
Football at Thiel, 2:00 pm (WRCT)
Soccer at Washington (Mo), 1:30 pm
Cross-Country at UAA Championships at Case Western, 11:00 am 
Womens Tennis at PAC Championships at John Carroll 
Field Hockey at UAA Championships at John Hopkins 
Field Hockey at UAA Championships at John Hopkins 
Field Hockey at UAA Championships at John Hopkins 
Soccer vs Frostburg St. at Tech Field, 3:30 pm 
Sportsline on WRCT-FM (88.3)
Womens Tennis at Robert Morris, 3:00 pm 
Volleyball at Washington & Jefferson, 6:00 pm 
Womens Tennis vs Pittsburgh at Tech Courts, 3:30 pm 
Soccer vs Washington & Jefferson at Tech Field, 3:30 pm 
Football at Grove City, 1:30 pm (WRCT)
Cross-Country at Thiel, 11:00 am 
Volleyball at John Carroll, 1:00 pm 
Rugby at Altoona
Football
Hiram 26, Carnegie Mellon 20 
Pitt 30, Notre Dame 22 
Penn State 35, Rutgers 21 
Grove City 31, Thiel 14 
Washington & Jefferson 55, Bethany 14 
Wooster 14, John Carroll 13 
Chicago 14, Lawrence 13 
Case Western 23, Oberlin 22 
Wabash 35, Washington 0 
Allegheny 44, Ohio Wesleyan 6 
Catholic 31, Duquesne 10
Soccer
Carnegie Mellon 1, Rochester 0 
Carnegie Mellon 2, Grove City 0
Field Hockey
IUP 1, Carnegie Mellon 0
Carnegie Mellon 4, Wash & Jeff 0
Tennis
Carnegie Mellon 6, Wash & Jeff 3 
Carnegie Mellon 9, California (Pa) 0
Volleyball
Carnegie Mellon 2, John Carroll 0 
Carnegie Mellon 2, LaRoche 0 
Carnegie Mellon 3, Hiram 0
NCAA Div. Ill Football South Rankings
1.Wash. & Jeff.5-0
Points
99
2.Susquehanna4-094
3.Gettysburg4-090
4.Ferrum4-0-187
 5.Widener3-175
6.Frank, and Mar.3-0-172
7.Emory and Henry4-170
8.Carnegie Mellon 3-0-158
9.Juniata3-156
10.Centre2-155
10.Alleghany3-0-155
12.Sewanee3-118
National Division III Soccer Rankings.
1.Ohio Wesleyan11-2-0
2.NC-Greensboro7-4-1
3.Scranton, PA11-0-0
4.Salem State, MA6-0-1
5.Ithaca, NY6-1-1
6.Glassboro State, NJ10-0-0
7.St. Johns, Minn.5-1-0
8.North Carolina Wesleyan9-2-1
9.Rockford, IL10-0-0
10.RIT, NY8-1-0
CRUISE SHIPS
Now Hiring; M/F Summer & Career Opportunities (Will Train). Excellent pay plus world travel. Hawaii, Bahamas, Caribbean, etc. CALL NOW206-736-0775 Ext. 636H
NCAA Div. Ill Football Nat'l Rankings
Points
1. Augutana4-080
2. Wagner4-075
3. Wash. & Jeff.5-073
4. Wis.Whitewater4-168
5. Susquehanna4-059
5. Gustavus Adolphus5-059
7. Dayton3-158
8. Hofstra4-055
9. Gettysburg4-044
10. Ithaca3-141
10. Hiram3-041
12. Claremont2-139
13. Ferrum4-0-128
14. Baldwin-Wallace3-127
15. Rochester4-026
16. Luther4-023
17. Widener3-115
18. Glassboro4-013
19. Adrian3-110
20. Menlo3-105
TOUCH FOOTBALL
MINORS%
PAC-10wL
SIG TAU40
SMODNOCS41
BEN WA BALLS22
NAVY ROTC12
BEER TEAM03
AFROTC03
SECwL
DRAG FORCE40
CIA-B31
SCHLAG ASSYLUM22
WAWAWS23
ZOO13
AE PI03
BIG TENWL
DELTA UPSILON21
KDR21
FLINTSTONES21
SCHLAG BOYS22
PROUD PETE23
THE CLAN WITH A C13
MAJORS INDEPENDENTSWL
DYNAMIC RAMS40
PIKA-C31
7-ECSTACIES32
ARMY ROTC12
BOINGERS13
BOSS 2ND FLOOR04
IM Standings
ALLWLVOLLEYBALL
PILAM40
MONKEY PUS21MINORS
DTD01GWL
MUDGE MAULERS02WA WA WAS IV10
LONESOME LOSERS02More E310
The Wall01
UAAwLAcid Rain01
NP COMPLETIONS30
BONE CRUSHERS20HwL
MARYBELLE APTS.22Pliam B10
ZBT13Mech. E, Grad.II10
SAE-C03The Flat Tires01
DTD01
INTERMEDIATE
EASTwLIwL
EASY MONEY60Smodnocs10
ECE-DRAMS60Sig-Tau A10
THETAXI51The Dead Cats01
PIONEERS33AFROTC01
CIA-A23
NASAL VOMIT03JwL
MEAT DOGHOUSE15What?! Dig10
PHI KAPPA THETA04Army ROTC10
CAMPANAS MISFITS05Monkeypus01
Donner 2801
WESTwL
THE SQUAD51KwL
SAE-B51Fermats Crew10
DEFECTS41SigTau-B10
D.U.31Mudge Slingers-2B01
SUDSUCKERS21APHIO lobs01
THE ZOO23
THE TWITS14LwL
SEI05Bunch O Daves10
M.E. GRADS05Delta Upsilon10
Pinnacle01
MAJORSCIA-B01
wL
CRUNCH BUNCH40MwL
PIKA-A31Pioneers B20
ATO31The Extra Cellulars01
BETA22Navy ROTC Midshipmen01
GSIA04
KAPPA SIGMA04NwL
Mudge Packers10
VOLLEYBALLCIA-A10
The Defenders01
MAJORSThe Zoo01
WOMENS ONLY AwL
Mathletes10TENNIS
CIA10
Delta Gamma01 .MAJORSwL
Zoo Crew01GSIA Not MBA30
PHI KAPPA THETA20
MAJORS BwLKSA10
CS-I10MIS-N-MATCH10
The Club10SEI12
The Miracle Whips01GSIAS BIG BOYS01
CS-II01GSIA PLUS01
EUROPEAN TEAM02
INTERMEDIATETHE B.A.M.F.02
CwL
Nine Lives10INTERMEDIATE
SUPA et. al.10AwL
Scobell Milkmen10PILAM50
Pliam A01GOLDEN SHOWERS01
CSO (B)01CSO-B01
Team RA01TUDOR01
THE ZOO01
DwLATO01
Eulers10
Mech. E, Grad I10INTERMEDIATE
Alpha Epsilon Pi10BwL
KSA00SIG TAU70
The The Monkeys01SUPA FUZZBUSTERS12
Bunch-O-VBALL Players01OUR AD12
SEI01SHIRLEY SLUCS01
MUDSLINGERS01
EwLCSO-A03
AFROTC10
SUPA10WATER POLO
CS-310
Delta Upsilon00MAJORSwL
Orange Doti01SAE20
ThetaXI01THETA XI10
Raelistic Kumquats01DU12
PHU KAP02
FwL
ECE Grads10MINORSWL
SDC10AFROTC30
Phi Kappa Theta10BOSS HOGS LATE MEM.1I
Odies00MEG12
ATO01AMPHIBS02
Pioneers A01
CSO01
U0 Bouquet St. 
Oakland
621-2087
,essWewoi,5'^onW''9 
p'ogsK>t' *

---------------------------------------------------

The Tartan
PORT
y/dmkF) Y k> dcI-dF Y mI-dFm jc/F7dcm
Heartbreaker at Homecoming
Volleyball Team Extends Winning Streak To 6 Matches
iou loebeS mcke e ' hm
for his efforts.
Turnovers by both teams were the rule at the 
games beginning. Defensive back Rob 
Arthur ended Hirams first drive by intercept > 
Devorsky. But Hensel gave the ball 
on an interception two plays later.
While the Terriers failed to capitalize on 
their first interception, they wasted no time 
putting their second to use. On the second 
drive of the series, Starks took off for a 59 yard 
touchdown run and a 6-0 lead.
The lead jumped to 19-0 before Carnegie 
Mellon responded late in the second quarter 
Ironically, it was the ineffective Hensel who 
propelled the Tartans. Tight end Tim Kelly 
(five catches, 72 yards) caught two passes and 
senior halfback Bill Heiser caught one to move 
CMU to the five yard line. Freshman Scott 
Bamyak took it in two plays later, making the 
score 19-7.
Unfortunately, the CMU offensive momen
tum didnt translate to the defense, as the Ter-^ 
riers restored their lead to 19 points on their 
first possession in the second half.
The defense did stop the Terriers after that, 
allowing Carnegie Mellon to get back-in the 
game, but fall short.
sewST eRO ewSTC The Tartans seasonlong first-quarter drought continued. They 
have been outscored 10-0 in the opening 
period...A dearth of upperclassmen has 
pushed nine sophomores into the starting 
lineup...Bill Cramer undergoes surgery for the 
arm he fractured Saturday, he is out for the 
season...Carnegie Mellon entered the game as 
the most penalized team in the PAC...During 
his miserable first half, Hensel moved into 
third place on the Carnegie Mellon all-time 
passing attempts list.
sSDP MSSiC Carnegie Mellon gets its turn to 
beat up on Thiel College. The hapless Tom
cats, a perennial PAC doormat, have not won 
yet this season. Their most recent loss was to 
Grove City on Saturday, 31-14.
By s/F/Wkc t/Md)W71
Tartan Staffwriter
The volleyball season for Carnegie Mellon is 
at its midpoint in terms of matches left to play, 
but the Lady Tartans are playing at their high 
point. They extended their winning streak to 
six matches, defeating Presidents Athletic 
Conference (PAC) teams Hiram, 3-0, and 
John Carroll, 2-0, as well as non-conference 
opponent LaRoche, 2-0, this week.
Friday, the Lady Tartans were on the road at 
Hiram where they took three straight games 
from the Lady Terriers (15-7, 15-7, 15-11). 
Senior Marianne Smith and sophomore Laurie 
Shumaker recorded 11 kills as well as avoid
ing any hitting errors for Carnegie Mellon. 
Theyre playing better every time, remarked 
Coach Sue Flaherty.
Senior Karin McCandless agreed. Weve 
improved in everything. Were finally movmg.
This was evident in the matches against John 
Carroll and LaRoche on Tuesday night at 
Skibo Gym. In the first match, the Lady 
Tartans combined strong blocking, solid play 
at the net and effective hitting to stop the Blue 
Streaks, by scores of 15-8 and 15-12. Smith 
led the way with six kills, followed by Shu
maker at five, and McCandless and freshmani 
Nicole Hanak with four apiece. Carnegie 
Mellon had eight hitting errors in the match. 
John Carroll received good serving from 
sophomore Mary Ann Montagne, as well as 
good blocking and net work, but it just wasnt 
enough to stop Carnegie Mellon.
After the match between John CarroH and 
LaRoche (15-5, 15-0 JCU), the Lady Tartans 
took to the court again, and showed no mercy,, 
sweeping LaRoche, 15-1 and 15-6. Service 
played a major role as Carnegie Mellon racked 
up nine serving aces. Senior Diane Watson 
and sophomore Kristine Loh paced the team, 
serving for 7 and 14 points in the match respec
tively. Hanaks five kills were the high for the 
team.
The Lady Tartans will be getting an extra lift 
with the return of senior captain Monica 
Zalevsky. She started practicing with the team 
yesterday, although her return to the court in a 
game situation has not yet been determined.
The Lady Tartans are now 4-1 in conference 
play and 11-9 overall. This week, Carnegie 
Mellon is facing Bethany on Tuesday at 7 pm, 
and last years PAC champion Grove City, 
along with Carlow, on Thursday at 6 pm. All 
games will be played at Skibo Gym. ^
pr v-ts jdkc0>/ss
Tartan Contributing Editor
In the end, Carnegie Mellon just ran out of 
magic.
Down 19-0, the Tartans struggled to within a 
touchdown of victory. But the Hiram Terriers 
maintained that margin to hold on to win, 26- 
20.
Hiram came into the game ranked 10th in the 
nation. For Carnegie Mellon, this was almost 
a must-win situation to remain in contention 
for a NCAA playoff berth and the Presidents 
Athletic Conference championship. While 
they are far from eliminated by the loss, CMU 
must hope for upsets of the Terriers and 
Washington and Jefferson to have a realistic 
shot at winning the conference.
The Tartans came within a whisker of turn
ing one of their worst performances of the year 
into a victory. Carnegie Mellon had narrowed 
the lead to 26-20 with 9:20 left irr the fourth 
quarter. The Terriers attempted to put the 
game away with a 21 yard field goal. But 
sophomore kicker Robert Kovach missed his 
second attempt of the day inside 30 yards, 
giving the Tartans a temporary stay of execu
tion.
The governors pardon failed to materialize, 
however. The offense was unable to push the 
ball past their 42 yard line before turning it 
back to Hiram, who ran out the clock to end the
game.
Hiram came into the game with the most 
diverse offense in the PAC. But the Tartans 
main concern turned out to be running back 
Bobby Starks. Starks ran wild through the 
CMU defense all afternoon, breaking the 
Hiram single-game rushing mark with his 172 
yards, and running in three Terrier touch
downs.
Starks did most of his damage in the first half, 
taking advantage of a soft Carnegie Mellon 
defense. Hiram moved the ball quickly and 
with authority, keeping the defense off guard
photo by Andy Gillespie
>AiS tSRTSA G=B PhAST PU ST2enS PES lheTn U. tAhewT 0UR >2xoSR OohARl mePohOerT gUTTb
with a mix of runs and passes by quarterback 
Ron Devorsky. Devorsky was pressured most 
of the afternoon by the Tartan defenders, but 
he responded well and completed 11 of 23 
passes for 198 yards.
Tartan quarterback Mike Hensel, on the 
other hand, fared poorly. He connected on 
only 18 of 46 attempts. While he did cross the 
200 yard barrier, he was intercepted a career 
high five times. Three of those interceptions 
came within his first five attempts. Perhaps the 
most telling statistic was his zero net rushing 
yards. In each of the Tartans wins the past 
three weeks, Hensel has been at or near the top 
of the rushing leaders.
Hensel took on an additional duty for CMU: 
kicking field goals. Stalled at the 26, Head 
Coach Rich Lackner sent Hensel in to try a 42 
yarder. Although Hensel was nailing 48 yard 
attempts in practice, his try was blocked. 
Lackner returned to regular Jim Kelly for the 
rest of the game.
If there was a bright spot in the loss, it was the 
return of junior fullback Chris Hansen. The 
starting fullback had been injured since early 
in the season, and was expected to return to 
limited duty this week. But Hansen entered on 
the fourth series and never left, rushing for 47 
yards and two touchdowns. Hansen was 
named Panther Hollow Inn Player of the Game
Senior Marianne Smith (II) sets np a return for the Lady Tartans.
photo by Judy Leppold

---------------------------------------------------

IINSIDEI
DRAMA...................... Page D2
Carnegie Mellon Drama Department 
opens its season
MOVIES..................... Page D9
Caine, Field, and Guttenberg team up for 
an entertaining romance film
By MEREDITH WOLLINS
Diversions Staffwriter
It is the typical success story. Time: 1980 
Place: Athens, Georgia. Peter Buck, a guitar
ist, Bill Berry, a drummer, Michael Stipe, a 
singer, and Mike Mills, a keyboardist, get 
together and form a band and travel along the 
East Coast and establish themselves on col
lege radio stations. Months later they sign with 
I.R.S. Records. Seven years later they release 
their sixth album, Document. Having just 
finished their ten-day  Work Tour  of Eu
rope, R.E.M. has started their two month, 40- 
city U.S. Work Tour and will be in Pitts
burgh (Mi October 23 at the Civic Arena.
The purpose of Document is to pay homage 
0 the work ethic. It is a true documentary that 
deals with real-life concerns. Welcome to the 
Occupation is about U.S. policy in Central 
America. This song follows the footsteps of 
Green Grow The Rushes and Flowers in 
Guatemala. The One That I Love is about 
the lonely, weary musician out on the road. 
Exuming McCarthy is self-explanatory. 
Anyone who has ever listened to R.E.M.s 
previous records like Murmur (1983), Lifes 
Rich Pageant (1986) or Reckoning(1984) is 
probably still wondering what Michael Stipe 
is saying. The lyrics are not always well enunIn only a few years, REM has rocketed to the top of the alternative music scene.
dated and since none of their records include 
words, we will never really know what songs 
like Radio Free Europe, There She Goes 
Again, So Central Rain or Cant Get 
There From Here are actually saying. 
However, Document is different from 
R.E.Ms previous records. ItsTheEndof the 
World as We Know it (And I Feel Fine) is the 
only song on Document that resembles the 
type of song that would be on one of RJE.M.s
previous records because of its fast beat and 
slur of words. The other songs on Document 
do not have that indescribable folk-rock, 
cheerful, romantic sound that R.E.M. is so 
famous for. Instead Document seems to use 
more bass which produces a harsh, mean mel
ody that is apparent throughout all the songs 
on the LP.
R.E.M. is growing more popular with every 
release. After their first gold album of last
PBT to verform World Premiere of The Great Gatsbv
year, Lifes Rich Pageant, it seems like 
R.E.M. is breaking away from their stereotype 
and is out to challenge the expectations of old 
and new listeners. Document is part of that 
challenge. I am sure that Document will soon 
hit the top of the charts. The fans have already 
done their job of buying the record and 
tickets to the Work Tour so this rise to the 
top can happen. Now it is just up to R.E.M. to 
perform their end of the work ethic.
ENTERTAINMENT  COMICS  CALENDAR  CLASSIFIEDS
REMs World Tour to Rock the Arena Next Week
Pooh Kaye and the Ballet Highlight Local Dance Scene
By LESLIE GRIFFIN
Assistant Diversions Editor 
Dance fans of Pittsburgh will be treated to 
two interesting and very different shows in the 
coming weeks. Running October 16-18 at the 
Stephen Foster Theatre on Forbes Avenue in 
Oakland as part of the Pittsburgh Dance 
Councils Urban Motion Festival is Pooh 
KayelEccentric Motions. At the Benedum 
-Center October 22-25 is the long-awaited 
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre production of The 
Great Gatsby. Theres no need to choose  
see them both and get a real sample of what the 
local dance scene has to offer.
Pooh KayelEccentric Motions ought to be 
exciting. Its a company of nine young, ener
getic dancers whose exuberance, playful 
humor and unexpected movement has brought 
a sense of uninhibited delight to audiences all 
over the United States. Founded in 1983 by 
Pooh Kaye, a leading proponent of new dance 
in New York, Eccentric Motions explores and 
expands the limits of human physique. Their 
idiosyncratic performances are distinctive 
collaborations between the creative individu
als in the company and the innovative music of 
composers John Kilgore and John Zorn, who 
are ongoing patrons. This year, the company
premieres two dances commissioned by St. 
Marks Danspace in April, 1986. Ferocious 
Collisions plays with the symbolism of the 
crowd whose unpredictable and fluctuating 
force is constantly reshaping and resurfacing. 
The score is by composer John Kilgore. Go
dard, set to John Zorns score, is an homage to 
fdm director Jean-Luc Godard. Pooh Kaye/ 
Eccentric Motions has received four National 
Endowment Choreographers Fellowships, a 
NY SC A Dance Company Grant, three Film 
Grants and an Inter-Arts Grant from the Na
tional Endowment. If the Pittsburgh Dance 
Council promises Pooh Kaye and her Eccen
tric Motions send the imagination whirling in 
a rush of shapes, sounds, and media. The 
cutting edge has never cut so close. Pooh 
Kaye: dancer, choreographer, animation 
filmmaker and prankster, can you afford to 
miss it? Fcx ticket information call 355-0330. 
Peformances are at 8 p.m. on October 16 and 
17,3 p.m. on the 18th.
On a different note, The Pittsburgh Ballet 
Theatre season opens with PBTs spectacular 
world premiere of The Great Gatsby, running 
October 22-25. The glitter and romance of the 
Jazz Age returns in this new ballet commis
sioned by the PBT from internationally ac
claimed choreographer Andre Prokovsky. 
Based on F. Scott Fitzgeralds masterpiece, 
the ballet follows the downfall of Jay Gatsby, 
an idealistic bootlegger who turned Prohibi
tion into power and profit. Gatsbys obsession 
with his lost love, Daisy, brings him to New 
Yorks fashionable West End, where Daisy 
lives in lavish style with her wealthy husband, 
Tom. In a naive attempt to gain entry to 
Daisys social circle, Gatsby stages dazzling 
drinking parties in his mansion. Their tragic 
liason underlines the storys final lessonthe 
past can never be recaptured.
Andre Prokovsky has created ballets for the 
worlds finest ballet companies. One of the 
leading set and costume designers in the dance 
world, English artist Peter Farmer is creating 
nine sets and ninety costumes for The Great 
Gatsby. Music*for the ballet is being arranged 
and composed by distinguished composer 
Gunther Schuller. Using music by Duke 
Ellington, George Gershwin and Scott Joplin, 
Mr. Schuller is recreating the jazz-hot mood of 
the 1920s.
Pittsburgh Ballet Theatre has exclusive 
rights to the ballet for three yearsa national 
tour of The Great Gatsby is planned following 
the ballets premiere. Performances here in 
Pittsburgh are at 8 pin. October 22-24 and 2 
pjn. on October 25. Special discounts are 
available for groups and students.- A leading proponent of new dance in the Big Apple, Pooh Kaye has been astonishing audiences since 1983.
The Tartan
IVERSION

---------------------------------------------------

Page D2The TartanOctober 13,1987
Good Woman ofSetzuan is an Inventive Season Opener
By MICHAEL ROSE
Diversions Theater Critic 
Carnegie Mellon Drama has opened its 
1987-88 season with a real winner in Berthold 
Brechts The Good Woman OfSetzuan, trans
lated by Eric Bentley, with music by Stephen 
Wolpe, directed by Anthony McKay. The 
show is inventive and engaging, and despite 
being a trifle long keeps its audience captive 
through the final moments of the play.
Director McKay is a CMU Drama graduate 
(Class of 69), a veteran of the New York 
theatre scene on and off Broadway, and is a 
member of the Drama Dept, faculty. His di
recting credits here at Carnegie Mellon 
include Four of a Kind, The Lower Depths, and 
a Molire double bill for this past summers 
CMTC season. He describes the subject of his 
latest efforts as blatantly theatrical, and the 
most entertaining of Berthold Brechts works
- a great rags to riches story. The play 
centers on the struggle of the Good Woman of 
Setzuan, a poor woman who is given an 
amount of money by the gods as reward for her 
kindness. With this good fortune comes re
sponsibility to be good as much as possible; 
she tries to, but does not quite succeed in 
avoiding the evil that is necessary to maintain 
her place in the world. The play, although 
humorous, is not a comedy; although it con
tains songs, it is not a musical. Director 
McKay thinks that audience members may be 
pleasantly surprised to find that Brecht 
uses...comic elements while presenting his 
basic theme: how can a person be good in this 
world, a world where daily struggles of life 
require hardness, and still survive?
The first thing a patron of The Good Woman 
ofSetzuan will notice is the simply intricate set 
design by Brian Stonestreet. All the various 
scenes are portrayed with an ingenious system 
of sliding paper walls that become residences 
one moment and shopfronts the next. The
main playing area for interior scenes is a large, 
low platform mounted on casters. This sort of 
portable space works extremely well in a 
long and complicated show like Good Woman, 
and the generally swift and effective scene 
changes, performed by crewpersons in Orien
tal costume, added to the sense of place. The 
costumes of the cast and crew, designed by 
Brian Webb, varied from the rags of the poor 
to the robes of the gods themselves. The over
all feeling, enhanced by a lovely lighting de
sign credited to Brian Weldy, is that of a city 
in transition, downtrodden and sordid in spots, 
yet still possessing some of the age-old beauty 
of the Orient.
The first person we meet in the city of 
Setzuan is a poor waterseller by the name of 
Wong, played with energy and sensitivity by 
Bruce J. Faulk. Wong remains the audiences 
confidante throughout the play, speaking out 
to us at times and keeping track of events for 
us. Wong is also the first person in Setzuan to 
meet the three Gods, played by David Lock
hart, Adona Butler, and a bespectacled Laura 
Hunter-Mitchell. These Gods (each wielding a 
traditional mask as a mortal face) have come 
to find a good person on Earth. Wong, after 
several false starts, leads them to the house of 
a young prostitute by the name of Shen Te. 
Shen Te takes the Gods into her home, and as 
a result is given one thousand silver dollars as 
a reward for goodness. Charging her to Be 
Good!, the Gods depart to find other Good 
People, leaving Shen Te to fend for herself. 
Shen Te buys a small tobacco shop, with the 
intention of doing good, but runs into a few 
problems...
Traci Lyn Thomas, in the demanding role of 
Shen Te, is magnificent. Although a small 
person, her stage presence is tremendous and 
carefully crafted. She leads us through Shen 
Tes trials and tribulations without for a 
moment losing her grip on the emotions of the
character and the result is a joy to watch. 
Supporting her starring role as the one truly 
Good person in all of Setzuan are a wonderful 
bunch of less-than-perfect citizens. Especially 
notable: Yang Sun, an unemployed mail pilot 
and Shen Tes erstwhile lover, portrayed with 
just the right dash of arrogance and swagger by 
Jordan Lee Williams; an indigent Husband 
and Wife dependent upon Shen Tes charity, 
played with a comic touch by Paul Kaup and 
Dalit Berkowitz; the usurious landlady Mrs. 
Mi Tzu, who has several wonderful moments, 
portrayed as a sort of Chinese Wicked Witch 
of the West by Serena J. Bern; and Mrs. Shin, 
a delightfully spiteful woman who eventually 
finds out a secret about the Good Woman of 
Setzuan, played masterfully by Carina Fisher. 
Also deserving of note are the three young 
waifs in the play who lend an immensely tragic 
element, played by Avraham Klein, Brendon 
Shwartz, and Mac Fleischmann.
All in all, The Good Woman of Setzuan is 
entirely alive and well in this production. The 
original staging style, the haunting 
music(directed and played by pianist Jerry 
Dantry) and the enticing plot twists and turns
are the base for a superb production. Aside 
from some minor rough spots in property and 
scene management which are sure to be ironed 
out by the time this review sees print, there is 
very little at all to criticize. We, the audience, 
are responsible for the ending of Brechts 
lesson in necessity and the intriguing and dis
turbing thoughts provoked in this play are we 
preserved and enhanced by this production.
Performances of The Good Woman of 
Setzuan are tonight and each night through the 
17th of October at 8 pm. There is also a 2 pm 
matinee on the 17th. For tickets, call the C-MU 
Drama Box Office at 268-2407 between noon 
and 5 pm, Monday thru Friday.
Also coming from the Drama Dept.:
Junior Repertory, ongoing, featuring six 
plays in six weeks, presented in the Studio 
Theatre. Admission is free. Call the Box Of
fice for details.
Portrait, coming November 4-14, a new 
musical by Ed Dixon based on Oscar Wildes 
novel The Portrait of Dorian Gray. Call the 
Box Office for ticket information and 
showtimes.oComedy: Steven Wright
By JOHN GINSBURG
Diversions Staffwriter 
Youve all seen the guy with the monotone 
who looks as if he doesnt care what is happen
ing in the world. You know, the one that says, 
1 hate it when my foot falls asleep during the 
day, because that means it will be up all night. 
Thats Steven Wright, and hell be at the 
Syria Mosque this Friday.
Wright began performing at small clubs in 
the Boston area about seven years ago. Then, 
in August 1982, he made his first television 
appearance on Johnny Carsons The Tonight 
Show.
Since then, his career boomed, and he has 
appeared on Saturday Night Live, Late 
Night with David Letterman, and has re
turned to The Tonight Show numerous 
times. Also, under his belt, are: his own show, 
On Location: Steven Wright, which aired 
on HBO; his album, I Have a Pony, and his 
movie debut in the film, Desperately Seeking 
Susan.
If you love great comedy, you wont want to 
miss this man in concert.
Appearing at the Mosque with Wright is 
another comedian yet to be announced. Tick
ets for the show, this Friday at 7:30, are $ 16.75
The Kaufmanns Division of May Department Stores Company 
would like to commend four Carnegie Mellon scholars who 
interned with us this summer:
>/d1 mb t/dF
W/Wct 1b t/mmkpk
x/dW >cmmksckROoTPhAeg >eRelSwSRP
kROoTPhAeg >eRelSwSRPV 
henEA2 xUwwoRA2ePAURT 
>eRelSwSRP
c2URUwA2TV
kROoTPhAeg >eRelSwSRP
44
44
>kxt/cW /b s/99/dkROoTPhAeg >eRelSwSRP
44
44
FES nhU.STTAURegATw OSwURTPhePSO r PESTS SD2SnPAUReg AgROAaAOoegT AT e 
2hSOAP PU xehRSlAS >SggUR 7RAaShTAPrb MS gUUi .Uh\ehO PU eR SaSR TPhURlSh 
nehPSwTEAn SP\SSR xehRSlAS >SggUR eRO 1eo.weRRT
o

---------------------------------------------------

October 13,1987The TartanPage D3
Someone Jessica Hahn can Take Lessons From
Last week I was on Good Morning Amer
ica on the same show with Jessica Hahn 
and Mamie Van Doren. Maybe you have 
some idea of how youre supposed to 
measure human achievement on this planet 
God gave us, but I say I might as well go 
ahead and die now. Theres nothin left to do, 
nobody else I could meet thats halfway 
interestin. Ive been raptured up into the 
holy high heavens of Bimbodom.
First I met Mamie, star of the 1958 DriveIn Hall of Fame Classic High School Con
fidential, where she wears the cashmere 
sweaters three sizes too little so she looks 
like she got shot through the back with a
Joe Bob Goes : 
to the Drive-In :
ouple of cruise missiles. I told Mamie she 
was a permanent member of the Drive-In 
Hall of Fame, and even though she never 
heard of me she knew EXACTLY what I 
was talking about. She was even a little 
proud of it. The rock-and-roll movies, she 
said. It must have been all those rock-androll movies I made.
Then came Jessica, the only woman in 
history to charge $265,000 for nookie. She 
looked like a million dollars. This is cause 
Hugh Hefner evidently just GAV her a 
million dollars. She grinned a lot on the 
show, specially when shark reporter Steve 
Fox would ask her stuff like, Can you 
explain what you mean when you say posing 
topless in Playboy makes you feel closer to 
God? Jessica apparently left a few face 
cards at home that morning. She was great.
I always wanted to see Mamies breasts, 
specially when she did the Vegas strip-tease 
cleavaee mambo number in Three Nuts in 
Search of a Bolt, starring Tommy Noonan.
But Mamie never exhibited the full sack of 
groceries. She wasnt THAT kind of girl.
I NEVER wanted to see Jessicas breasts, 
but church secretaries dont give it away for 
free. They give it away for a million bucks. 
Jessica showed em to us anyhow, and not a 
moment too soon. Otherwise I would of had 
to go through life wondering exactly what it 
was that Jimbo Bakker put his hands all over 
that was considered disgustin to the Pentecostals. But, Jessica, lemme give you a little 
advice, OK?
Weve seen it now. Its over. Were not 
wondering anymore. Go on home, thank 
you.
But'you know what? This is the point I'm 
trying to make. It wasnt Jessica's hooters 
that made me feel closer to God, even 
though ever place I went last week there was 
some radio disc jockey waiting to ask me 
exactly what I thought about Jessicas 
Almond Joys. What made ME feel great was 
seeing Mamie, at the age of 56, when most 
starlets already hung up their ripaway bra 
straps and went out to the made-for-TV farm 
to breed Robert Culp sequelsto see Mamie 
out there selling a book called Playing the 
Field, where she tells EXACTLY how 
many times she aardvarked on the backlot, 
who she did it with, and how many stars she 
gave em. Theres something real basic and 
honest about Mamie. Jessica, take a look.
See if you can learn something.
Speaking of intergalactic garbonzas, I 
wandered over to 42nd Street in New York 
to see Slave Girls From Beyond Infinity, 
which is this year's Numero Uno candidate 
go to directly to video, do not pass cable, do 
not collect $200 a week. Its the story of two 
airhead bimbos in loincloths wj\o steal a . 
spaceship but crash land it on a beach next 
door to a sex pirate named Zed who lives in 
a castle and hunts down nubile young
/ssx on s
'  j1  v i  < . < v*. \V ., (iI v. " Si WiiO v)i
;';** >;I ! o. ;;v;. Me.
I i  1 % i  .  . . . ' I > . . i }; ;v_. V. .,1 y. ) !) y ;
., ; Iv
< . . : v
v ;.
tI ; v. ;,
uYYY _Y__byb, CA \ dossier S7/SS AT oROSh\er eRO \Sg2UwST gAPShePohS
f bbb bbbbb b .hUw eRr TPoOSRP SRhUggSO eP xehRSlAS >SggURb
FU TowAP \Uhi nhS.Shegr UR e we2ARPUTE OATiBC
. y\io\v .vov '*''.i L
: ; l v t: r ; i Vi i1 h ; look :. o ; : e w h;:ik c
TSRO PEhUolE 2ewnoT weAg PU dossier 
2VU FES FehPeR 
h
iK)
A > i
 OhUn U.. eP 
Y  X FES FehPeR UA.A2S
miA U hUUw =
. I v. v.. O [ 11.1 :v. v ' 1   I i   ' C 111 <   . / i W. i t . I
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb,bbbb *2URPe2P
bbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb qfogbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb>A2ESgS-TEShU\
EaAu,b =fkKa yUhA1a,bCAa Ihu 64G 4=
airhead bimbos for fun. Whoops!
Giant robots show the girls to their rooms 
and help them into their chiffon lingerie and 
bikini swimwear, except when it's time to 
come down to dinner an black cocktail 
dresses and try to figure out why Zed keeps 
bringing home bloody bags full of human 
heads.
Finally, its time for the moment weve all 
been waiting for: Zed chains the girls up and 
tells them theyre tomorrows lunch.
You cant do this! shout slave girl Tisa. 
Life is too precious to be killed for sport!
It's cold cosmos, says Zed.
Seven breasts. Ten dead bodies. Heads 
roll. Bimbo torture. Gratuitous zombie 
attacks. Kung fu. Android fu. Dart fu. Laser 
crossbow fu. Drive-In Academy Award 
nominations for Elizabeth Cayton, as slave 
girl Daria, for saying Have you checked 
those hyperspace landing coordinates?;
Don Scribner, as the evil Zed, for holding a 
bloody human head in his hands and saying 
We all have different needs; Brinke 
Stevens as slave girl Shela, for saying If 
you don't let me go, my brother will kill 
you; and Cindy Beal, as slave girl Tisa, for 
letting the only map of the jungle fall out of 
her bra strap and saying We might as well
Heavy Duty Slave girl Fu in Slave Girls 
From Beyond Infinity.
face the fact that we're dealing with a 
maniac'' and Fate is certainly a twisted 
tapestry.
Two stars. Joe Bob says check it out.
Page Dll
This Week...
Doherty 2210
Thursday, Oct. 15
La Strada
6, 8,10
Friday, Oct. 16
Any Which Way You Can
6, 8,10,12
Sunday, Oct. 18
6, 8,10
$1.00 with CMU ID, 
$2.00 without
Funded by your Activiliei Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page D4The TartanOctober 13,1987
Bernhard Does Free-Form Shootin the Breaze Comedy
pr />/s0/ x-tcs
Diversions Comedy Critic
Sandra Bernhard stands just to the left of 
comedy. By her own proclamation, she is not 
like any other comic, and she spent a good hour 
and a half trying to prove it last Thursday night 
at the Carnegie Music Hall. Because of her 
established status as a comedy performer, she 
was able to go up and give the kind of show that 
most inexperienced performers would just kill 
to dofree-form shootin the breeze with 250 
new friends.
Having 12 years of stage experience, a rec
ord, a movie, and numerous Letterman ap
pearances behind her, Bernhard apparently 
didnt feel the need for tremendous response 
for every joke. After all. it was just a college 
show.
mES RSaSh SaSR wSeRP PU lSP ARPU 2UwSOr AR 
PES .AhTP nge2Sb Xk EeO oTP lUPPSR ARPU AP r 
OS.eogPf< pShREehO TeAO AR eR ARPShaAS\ e .S\ 
OerT S.UhS PES TEU\b Xk 2ewS PU Wb/b PU 
nohToS TARlARl eRO nhUegr e2PARlf eRO k oTP 
.Sgg AR \APE e gUP U. nSUngS \EU \ShS OUARl 
2UwSOrbbb eRO k oTP EeaS PEAT RePoheg eAgAPr PU 
Pegi eRO S .oRRr eP APf eRO APT iARO U. egg 
SaUgaSOf eRO AP wer S PES hAlEP PEARlf 2eoTS 
k OU gAiS PU Pegi eRO k OU gAiS PU TARl eRO PES 
2UwARePAUR U. PES P\U AT iARO U. ARPShSTPARl PU 
wSb k 2eR OU AP AR e oRANoS \erb<
Bernhard's full two houract incorporates the 
best of her original songs and stories from her 
years of comedic performance. Her college 
show uses a few stories and old routines, and 
a lot of playing around. I usually travel with 
musicians and stuff, she said. Thats not 
what I'm doing this time. Ive been putting my 
act together and Ill probably do it on Broad
way in the Spring so Im a little bit burned out 
on it so I'll probably just get up there and; you 
know, fuck around a little bit.
More like a lot. The show was more of an 
opportunity to gaze at Sandra Bernhard than to 
enjoy some good comedy. The audience was 
receptive and attentive, but for the most part 
the laughs were lukewarm. In her random 
wandering through concepts, she touched on 
much of the high circulation topics of all 
comics; airline food, dogs, Joan Rivers, MTV, 
Oprah Winfrey, divorce, and boyfriends 
seemed to have had the same effect on
Bernhard as they have had on every other 
comedian.
Once in a while she broke into song, and 
mercifully broke back out after a chorus or 
two. Her what, me care? attitude allowed her 
to stand tall in the face of a silent crowd. When 
a concept worked,, she would push it to its 
comedic limits, only to leave us waiting for the 
big punch line.
Which is not to say she was entirely unfunny. 
With a four-minute fantasy of growing up in a 
sickeningly sweet ideal Christian family, 
Bernhard painted a dreamy Rockwell of what 
she though she had missed by being brought up 
Jewish. The perfectly crafted sterotypes got a 
laugh, but the story left the audience hanging 
on a limp closing line.
For the last half hour of her show, Bernhard 
invited students to come up to the stage and ask 
her questions. At this point, the performance, 
which Pitt students had paid $3.50 to see, 
degenerated into a press-conference. She had 
expected a rowdier session. When I was at the 
University of Florida, I just said 'the hell with 
it and started talking to them ... Thats why 
I'm not coming with my usual show because I 
expect everyone to be drunk... so if theyre all 
sitting there being really together Im going to 
be embarassed.
MESR TSOePS TPoOSRPT eRO .e2ogPr wSwShT 
NoSTPAURSO ESh eUoP aSlSPehAeRATwf OSRPATPhrf 
eRO PES wURiSr PEeP EeO APPSR ESh EeRO geTP 
PAwS TES \eT UR XWePS sAlEPf< pShREehO \eT 
SweheTTSOb mES aAS\T ESh nSh.UhweR2S TPrgS 
eT XPES iARO U. 2URaShTePAUR rUo EeaS eP e 
2U2iPeAg nehPrf eT UnnUTSO PU a oR2E U. wU8
hURT OhUUgARl SShb< MEeP TES \eT hSeggr .e28
ARl \eT e gUP U. IAPP TPoOSRPT \EU \eRPSO PU S 
\Sgg SRPShPeARSO hePESh PEeR SRgAlEPSRSO Uh 
PegiSO ePb pShREehOT AllSTP geolET 2ewS 
.hUw heRiARl UR xehRSlAS >SggUR TPoOSRPTf 
TerARl \S nhUegr OAORP EeaS e .UUPegg 
PSew S2eoTS \S \ShS XPUU oTr ARaSRPARl 
PEARlTb<
haved as jaded and judgemental in real life. As 
it turns out, the stage is her real life. I really 
have a very strong point of view about the 
world. Some people say its tough, some 
people say its cynical ... I think its just 
intelligent and insightful. And somebody has 
to be willing to put themselves on the line and
comment on the mediocrity. And I dont feel 
like Im cynical. I feel like I have a more 
sophisticated point of view on what Id like in 
life, she rationalized. Bernhards comedy 
comes from mercilessly nailing mediocrity to 
the wall, but in a mellow tone. I feel like Im 
speaking for a lot of people, she said. I 
wouldnt have an audience if I wasnt speak
ing for a lot of people.
kR TnSeiARl PU e gUP U. nSUngSf pShREehO TerT 
TES RePoheggr TnSeiT UR ToS2PT PU \EA2E e gUP 
U. nSUngS 2eR hSgePSf To2E eT XSARl e \UweR 
AR G!4f 2EUUTARl PU S UR wr U\Rf UnPAURTf 
hSgePAURTEAnT \APE wSRf TSDoegAPrf .eTEAURf 
woTA2f eRO nUn 2ogPohSbbb eUoP SaShrPEARlb< 
mPAgg RUPEARl RS\ here. MEePT RS\ AT ESh 
ePPAPoOSf \EA2E AT XiARO U. e 2UwARePAUR U. 
TPhURlf TSDrf ellhSTTAaSf eRO aogRShegSb< 
/gURl \APE 0hb doPE MShPESAwShf pShREehO AT 
URS U. PES .S\ nSUngS \EJ 2eR weiS 0eaAO 
WSPPShweR goTEb mES AT 2UwngSPSgr oRAREAA8
PSO eRO PegiT eUoP TgSSnARl \APE ver WSRU eT 
SeTAgr eT TES TAlRT eR eoPUlhenEb mES egTU 
OhUnT RewST eT A. PESr \ShS lhSeTSOf eggSlARl 
2gUTS hSgePAURTEAnT \APE e lUUO nehP U. PES 
tUggr\UUO SgAPSb
Most major comedians have less major 
comedians as opening acts, except for college 
shows where they usually have no opening 
acts. Bernhard went halfway. Pitt provided an 
opening act, but Bernhards contract stipulates 
that her opener must never be comedy. I dont 
have anything in common with any other 
comic, she argued. Anothercomic would set 
up a point of view that Id have to spend the 
next hour dispelling. Its too crazy.
A local band, The Sponges, opened for 
Bernhard. Their clean cut, progressive style 
rock was wasted on an comedy audience that 
didnt have room to dance. Sounding like a 
combination of Big Country, U2, and half the 
bands WXXP plays, the Sponges played an 
energetic half hour set of original songs. A 
lesser band would have been foiled when the 
sound cut out during the fourth song, but the 
Sponges held together admirably, ending 
simultaneously and then jamming on what
ever instruments still had power. By the end of 
the Sponges set, the audience had gotten into 
a high rockin mood just in time to watch 
the band clear the stage for Bernhard. We were 
left with too much energy to watch such a laid| 
back comedienne. Steven Wright would have 
been too hyper an opening act for Bernhards 
Pitt show.
Bernhard will be back in her element on 
December 10, when she is next scheduled to 
appear on Letterman. For the distant future, 
Bernhard sees herself doing more stage shows, 
and expanding her creative horizons. Im 
sure that Ill probably do a lot more writing, ^ 
and Id like to write films for other people. I 
have lots of good ideas. I dont always have to 
be the center of attention. There are times you 
like to drop back and still be creative but not 
necessarily have to put yourself on the line.
For the aspiring comedian, Bernhard advises 
people to adopt her strategy: More than any
thing you really have to have a point of view 
and something important to say, and if you ^ 
dont, I dont think you should bother saying
WRCT TOP TEN PLAYLIST
Sept 26 - Oct. 9,1987__________
Artist - Record - Label
GB pAl pge2i u mURlT /UoP jo2iARl u FUo2E s U
zB 0SeO xeR 0eR2S u kR PES dSegw U. e 0rARl moR u $/071B
QB -neg u tennr sAlEPwehS per u mmF
$B yehAUoT u WURSgr kT /R crSTUhS xUwnAgePAUR u $ /071B
B 7RiRU\RwAD u >AD Q u dS2UwwSROSO 71B
6B MEAPS 9UwAS u ITr2EU tSeO pgU\UoP u mAgSRP cDngUTAUR
B UaShRwSRP kTToS u )Uo u AeRP
4B >AT.APT u caAgAaS u xehUgARS
!B tennr jgU\ShT u >r miAR xUaShT >r pUOr u tUwSTPSeO
G=B >SwheRST u FAwS Mehn G!!G u tUwSTPSeO
Great Taste.
No Waist.
kROoglS rUohTSg. \APE Fxbp) kPS pAPSTf* gAK\ 2egUhAS PhSePT weOS \APE 
OSgA2AUoT F-p) .hU5SR rUlohP eRO TolehgSTT .wAgT )Uo kk Ter PESr hS 0SPhPS.og:
* XX XX
0SgA2AUoT Fxp) 
jhU5SR )UlohP
Y FeTPST gAiS nhSwAow 
A2S 2hSew
Y /gwUTP Eeg. PES 
/V 2egUhAST U. nhSwAow
)  y A2S 2hSew
\ ^ Y WU\Sh w 2EUgSTPShUg
Y && jeP .hSS
Fxp) WAPS pAPST
Fc xdcIc y
jhSS mewngST
Y kvFc k Agg 
-Rgr z 
2egUhASTb
Y kvFc pkFc mt/1c 
-Rga FE 2egUhAST V
Y kvFc pkFc I/dj/GF  
-Rgr v7 2egUhAST /
Y kvFc pkFc pcWxk/s 
M/jjWc -Rgr W'/ 
2egUhA2T
Y kvFc pkFc jdAR  
m>--Ftkc -RE // 
1h 2egUhAST / /
All The Pleasure. None Of The Guilt * ^
IffTCBVThe Countq/S Best )bgurt 
(Local Store Address)
^rUYON^G-TEFR!^ A /s)Ftks ks Ftc mF-dcf Pl
X/5 (excluding pie*) . . \ /One coupon per purchase at participating All ?* |XX
TCBY tore*. Void were prohibited. | Y M
The Confiyh Best Unfurlq, Offer expire: 10/27/87 CM
^ 1986 TCBY Systems, lnc.j
fes*
Ciar HINC MIN AND YOUNC MiN SINCE 1969
UROUR0U2i
OiV &yw co^^ycrRo&B novy CVVRvyd HVom 
GRVbCid, EdwR&, JRmmyZ, Po^o, 
A^yxC&dyV Ji^RC&, C&d GorcnC.
5842 Forbes Avenue 
Squirrel Hill421I5710
Fox Chapel Plaza 
Freeport & Fox Chapel Roads781I0811
An Academic Year Abroad in the Arts and Humanities
 rSeh U. oROShlheOoePS TPoOr AwwShTSO AR PES
gA.S eRO 2ogPohS U. jgUhSR2Sb FES nhUlhew 2UwARST 
oRAaShTAPr 2UohTST \APE AROAaAOoeg PoPUhAegT eRO geR8
loelS TPoOr eROf .Uh TPoOSRPT U. PES ehPTf \Uhi \APE 
kPegAeR ehPATPTb +/d /tFor information and an application, contact: uxuxATl
Sarah Lawrcnce College In Florence LAWRENCE 
Box CMUF /^rvT I rnrBronxvillc, New York 10708 LyWLLLvjrj
*
$
II

---------------------------------------------------

BLOOM COUNTYFunded
5PXK #-2 HAS 60NE HID 'WLCAN HORMOML mdALMce'.'n'sSCX&MNb FOR A SUM 
HARBM OF dUPPi FUSION MMti."He's
\setx1
me SandwnSi cShhCoupyCS srm&E m> aehsCdkpghBAST MTh AN UNCANNY POLITICAL SIXTH SENS6 TOR THNOS THAT YOU Mi? 1 CAN ONiy 6UESS AT.'
EA TAUE RE INS OC' PHASERS. PagE PaU eO2e20h FEATUFR&0CK*1'/mneFEHIR6P/
Z' KN.IUTBLL * NOTHIN' STAYS THE ^ SAME ANYMOREMY MOW FKM?CY,RomeoOTTOMANmxe tr#
tUM/ VOW'i. b.b.b. f vmar.'mfd*> M! w,
MW
iV&'(EW'4
EPaOr tSA nAOOw ii ewe HA HAmmmc rmrm(
Hey(.hNb mrrms.. Aewi I CAN TI TAKE ITm sou? wF mmYOU*.ABSENCE
HCV&i
TWNbS ARENT EXACTLY 05 THEY MERE BEFORE ' ANY MORE WEXKCTEP CHANGEANRI MAY JVST UTM&CXftS
frt11 :*.tf f~. A:V.E$ V:*f V2 0P ~u0V.*.R 0ff0V:t I:ONE
Re 7 m mu Usui rruxxsuKiWmFACt iNTTH A 
POU/teCHH AMO
0 TUTH
OARYHARTANNOUNCES
CEUBACY'
SUR. 0lowbIMT'iTMT pwS. uSSr Arp ES tSA 
1 PONT APART HELL. INEEP CONTINUITY MNTYUFE~

---------------------------------------------------

Overbad
V06> V DID BAD C Tt-Kr ^TA1ST(
THIS WAS JUST ON(FO F'TtiOSE 
DAVS.
efs /Iif /)/^ Miti) aiMer 
llai\ -Ip
AVF {jhcc, .ASo
\]tkollpr tv ifROOJ
4FR=R ARRWiKkr OkJ LASlAStA. OUR /mbaMHIU5, * 
Hewaes Joirt A 706 GRoOR /j^S-S^-y^-
/Ute (IU. e C4cHIM& TH6 'h J^ i '>/IrMPte or ymBAMOt 7ttf r I I \
/ -OW> m THRetr TartAvvv bvwB l
> T)/i
p.g.P / /V 0I KAfltf HoM
to pc/F PES b
N/Te*-lh
KUi-i/ievbtN

---------------------------------------------------

I
'By Bob Jenkins
ETERNAL \ KINGDOM
REPEN T
'/.a (A
By Danny Fahs
'Mjoy -me. SCCN* 8eAUty/yWr mah yoO'ee Just u<e My we*) 
WWJL. (PeAc-ncAuy A SKCLCToni! yJ SHcOLP QTTMd
r jv7fietMi
THe iAR&y rARiy OF &/90iM 7;XtKKS ON yoUR LEFT vS KrHOCW 
AS THE "Btb pits Of wVOCRW Hoc Hi.
My; -THE FtooR t>eAR
has . reve/u
He 5holvW/^1, 
8e IM 1 A
Eo, fDaV
vT MUST By TvME 1cA 
HAUbe IHE Coot.Mr
 STr THE F#OCrf .VKhWW ATU R 
( h weeks
"DOMPTIONS 
THM JEKR.Y 
FMV1ELL VJOUUt) 
HWE F.ETIREP 
UWDEf. THESEV CONDITIONS
;...THe "SMocti
uHinr&cKS
ule ARf njoc
APPRcWcHlNCr-j 
THe "SKtfi*r/ , 
-\TAd Rocks* I
AVt^0rM vloo^imat e J /
X WON^ OJHAT H^5 UKjT 
-r cFEL UKtf K Liviu6STO/si 
1 FV piSCOVER. A [?
MtV ? //-0\ :! (
n F man// o U ;
. FEL ALMOST \_\vce 
V -A maK
-iNfr' A A/f ^ c?/xFujfceP
SWfeoM^ Ite @@nr By Jim Vorhees

---------------------------------------------------

?EiQiaaija
By William Barnes & 
Matthew Diamond____
/ I ttvTr u#vjt 1 
I TO CHAlfc THfc CftlC' v 
/SlNfr <&*WT1VL.^S
808,1 TfcLD SOUL 
Morr TC MAKE 
Geeite SIN6- CHAIKHfM 
X fcMANb OM.'bC 
SbMfc UX*V PO > 
L ON)Ce, 1 r
THepfes Va im* uatT^VS KIN^ OFmTObi.
Dfc\J! gc uIgu gUuuaU 
bot*  wtlet BWWS 
-------- ReMfcWBtfc? )-----*
IF vjou.'LL JV^T 
cfttMt* cxpiaik; 1 
$001* CDMW-A1WT-. 
Ilt MAL U)H r
. c*&jEcnvu$! v
iV-Vxvv.,
oo|BI
Ote*'S
By Scott Fertig
'J Jc.a(VWlcl?
wivitiwr yovj 4c 
IUh3 uPeiSu\U.eniriiS.^-
InkspotsBy Kurt Shawcollegiate crossword
^cO\ehO vogAoT xUggSlAePS xM4=z
Regretful one Irving and Vanderbilt Acquit"The Lord is MyII
Veal -----Extends across Turkic tribesmen Mr. Guinness Spanish for wolf Retrace (3 wds.) Disproof Ends, as a broadcast (2 wds.) Like Felix Unger Corn quantity Hurt or cheated GlidedLead minerals CoquetteTake ----- (pause)Finished a cake Football trick"Rock of -----Anklebones Work with soil TooNew Dealor gun . organization
Type of music Doesnt eat The Sunflower State Part of APB, to policeAll-too common excuse (2 wds.) Short opera solo GrottoPart of the hand Made do Prevents----- AlteU.S. caricaturist Farm storage place
The REAL WorldBy Andy DurkinMovie mogulMarcus -----Heroic tale Song syllable The state of being undamaged PalIts capital is DaccaNobel chemist The art of putting on playsPearson and Maddox----- VegasDrink to excessHoratio -----"Sistine Madonna" painterScreenwriter Anita Chain style DeclineDevices for refining flour Teachers organizationShore protectors (2 wds.)Machine part
*n* yogr carrots are
. Ma \
DOWN
Conservatives' 35foes, for short 36Go ------length 38(ramble) 40Famous volcano 41Moves jerkily 42Hollywood populace 43 Golfer North or Bean 44 
"Golly" 45----- as an eel 46Size of some 49want-ads (2 wds.)
 S|T1A1T|E1SMN1E|S |T |L |E M
These are the answers to 
last week's puzzle.
BLOODX IV\0T
ATTENTION BRICKFACE AND STUCCO P.l. FANS:
THE COMIC IS IN A TEMPORARY HIATUS 
AND SHOULD RETURN NEXT WEEK.

---------------------------------------------------

October 13,1987The TartanPage D9
Congratulations to our 2 new sisters
Monica and Andrea
Love, ike sisters of Cfii Omega
Surrender
Directed by Jerry Belson; Written by 
Mr. Belson; produced by Aaron Spell
ing and Alan Greisman; relased by 
Warner Bros.; rated R 
Cast: Michael Caine, Sally Field, 
Steve Guttenberg.
long-time confidant whos seen his client 
through his seemingly endless series of trials 
and tribulations. Wife number one got fifty 
percent of Seans assets and future earnings. 
His live-in girlfriend won her palimony case 
and received another twenty percent of Sean 
for life.
Smarting from the death blow to his wallet 
and convinced that women are a man-hating 
species, Sean bursts ino Jays office, demand
ing that his lawyer immediately sell all of 
Seans remaining assets and book him on the 
next flight to Kuwait. Because, Sean insists, 
women cant vote, and you can flog them 
there.
Soothing his frustrated client, Jay begs Sean 
to come out for a last night on the town to
gether and accompany him to a posh museum 
fund-raiser. Sean reluctantly agrees.
Marty Caesar, meanwhile, offers Daisy a 
chance to put down her paint brush for an 
evening and attend the museum  s benefit bash. 
Just as the party is really getting underway, a 
group of masked machine gun-wielding 
thieves burst into the museum and force the 
surprised partygoers to relinquish all of their 
valuables and strip.
Now, having literally lost the shirt off his
ment, more concentrated toward painting painting them, Gilliam states. At the same
than the department at his previous position at time, these pictures accomplish many levels
the University of Maryland. of inner personality and confidence.
Gilliams goal in selecting works for the Dubbing it the Two Inches of Space Show 
Forbes Gallery this week was to see the show because of the amount of work and the large
declare itself strongly in the attitude of the sizes, Mr. Gilliam suggested the gallery staff
painters in the show. In teaching, he stresses just open the door and let the paintings hang
the importance of work and to find ones real out on the street. Finally, he stressed the
chance in art by giving yourself. Thus, the importance of juried group shows as a good
pieces selected are about making strong chance for the student to see the work outside
painting. All the works are risky and large in the studio and to judge for themselves, which
scalesometimes bigger than the people is the critical edge.------------------------------------------ -----------................... ...................... " " --- ------------1Due to Mid-Semester Break there 
will not be a Diversions Staff 
Meeting this week.
All staff and interested writers are required not to attend
HELP AT CRITICAL TIMES
CMU Counseling & Student Development Center 268- 2922 
After 5:00 pm, an answering service operator will help you reach the staff 
member on call.
CONTACT Pittsburgh............................................................... 782-4023
24 hour telephone counseling, crisis intervention, and supportive listening
Drug Connection...................................................................... 854-0700
An alcohol/drug crisis hotline, 5 - 9 pm
Tel-Aid..........................................................................................A Series of taped information on medical, legal, consumer, and safety issues. 
Lists of titles appear in the blue pages of the Pittsburgh telephone directory.
Counseling and Student Development Center, a division of Student Affairs
Field and Caine Work Well Together in Surrender
For more information call: 268-2407
STUDIO THEATRE THIS WEEK is brought to you by the Department of Drama
By ALEX ROSENBERG
Diversions Staffwriter
Shes a talented but unrecognized artist, 
forced to earn a living as an assembly-line 
painter. Hes a successful author, the writer of 
best-selling mysteries. When the two meet, he 
conceals his identity, nervously certain shed 
be more interested in his bank statement than 
his companionship.
With three Academy Awards between them, 
Sally Field and Michael Caine team up in 
Surrender, a contemporary comedy packed 
with romantic entanglements, secret liaisons 
and comic misunderstandings.
Two-time Academy Award-winning actress 
Sally Field portrays Daisy Morgan, a downon-her-luck painter who has spun the wheel of 
love several timesand lost. Employed by 
Art Extraordinaire Studios, Daisy spends her 
days stamping out alpine chalets and fir trees 
into the backgrounds of mass-produced oil 
paintings. Nighttime finds her returning home 
to stare at her own mass of unfinished can
vasses, and dream of having a family.
An international star for more than twenty 
years and a veteran of more than fifty films, 
1987 Oscar-winner Michael Caine plays Sean 
Stein, a wealthy, successful author whos had 
it alland lost a lot of itthrough a series of 
unfortunate relationships.
With one divorce and scores of failed rela
tionships behind her, Daisy is currently ro
mantically involved with Marty Caesar (Steve 
Guttenberg), a wealthy, if slippery young at
torney who, although in love with Daisy, isnt 
willing to commit to marriage.
Jay Bass (Peter Boyle) is a lawyer and Seans
jAhTP U. PES vohASO mEU\T eP jUhST eggShr
Steve Guttenberg and Sally Field are romantically involved in Surrender
back, Seans luck improves when he is forci
bly tiedface to face to the very embar
rassed, very nude Daisy.
Afterwards, Daisy only wants to forget the 
whole nightmare ever happened. But Sean is 
hopelessly smitten, and ready to end his selfimposed two-year abstinence from dating.
The rest of writer-director Jerry Belsons 
script is typical; female succumbs to a dif
ferent kind of romance a little off beat and 
adventurous. A relationship worth its emo
tional value rather than one based on the
monetary securities most women of the Eight
ies profess not to care about but it would be 
nice. Thus, for the next hour and a half, the 
audience views a helpless and mixed up Daisy 
struggle to find her own code of morals and 
values in order to choose the correct man 
with which to live happily ever after.
On the whole, Surrender is, in fact, quite a 
humorous movie. The film is a little too cutesy 
at times, as any previous Sally Fields viewer 
will tell you. But for the most part its creative, 
light and enjoyable.
F>T MSSi
T\ie., Oct. 13th at 5:00 and 8:30 pm 
Wed., Oct. 14th at 6:00 pm 
JUNIOR REP 87 - GHOSTS 
by Henrik Ibsen
xUwARl mUUR
Oct. 20th and 21st 
JUNIOR REP 87 - THREE MEN ON A HORSE
By EDIE LOCKE
Special to Diversions 
This week the Forbes Gallery will be present
ing a juried show consisting of work culled 
from the studios of CMUs junior and senior 
artists. Juried by advanced painting professor, 
Sam Gilliam, the show consists mostly of 
paintings with additional drawings, sculpture 
and two video installations. Mr. Gilliam,who
lives and paints in Washington D.C. and 
whose work is represented in the Phillips 
Collection, The Museum of Modem Art and 
the Carnegie Institute, flies into. Pittsburgh 
each week to teach his two advanced painting 
classes and give individual critiques. After 
teaching at CMU for four years, he describes 
his experience as great and cites Carnegie 
Mellon as a more unified painting depart---------------------------------------------------

Page DIOThe TartanOctober 13,1987
Scotch & Soda Begins With Short Plays
By KIMBERLY MC GRAW
Diversions Staffwriter
Scotch and Soda has expanded itself to 
include Short Plays. Short Plays will be a 
series of playlets performed every two weeks 
at Scotland Yard The plays are written, di
rected and starred in by Carnegie Mellon stu
dents.
Javier Grillo-Marxuach, originator of the 
idea and writer and director of the first play, 
Table Talk, said,I first got the idea three years 
ago in high school. I brought it to the first 
Scotch and Soda meeting. Liz (Elizabeth 
Rueger President of Scotch and Soda) liked 
the idea so we dove right into it.
Rehearsal for Short Plays is every day for 
two weeks. During that time, the students learn 
whatever is necessary to put on a play. The 
beauty of it is that it takes a short time but you 
can get involved in every aspect of theater 
production, said Grillo-Marxuach, 
adding,the work is intense but its fun.
Short Plays is designed to help train actors 
and is very like Scotch and Sodas acting 
workshops. At rehearsals students learn acting 
techniques, how to work with props, stage
management, as well how to direct. All tbe 
plays are written by CMU students. GrilloMarxuach expects that most of the plays will 
be comedies. We want to keep it light. De
pression, death, and despondency is not what 
people want to see.
Grillo-Marxuach hopes that Short Plays will 
become a permanent part of Scotch and Soda. 
Were in a trial period right now. Hopefully 
we will build up a following. We will keep 
doing it as long as people want to see it
There are eleven people involved in this 
production and Grillo-Marxuach is very 
pleased with them. Everybody is really good. 
We have a quality cast Most of the people 
involved with Scotch and Soda are not drama 
majors and Short Plays is no exception. Many 
have not had any involvement with theater 
before joining. Grillo-Marxuach said,The 
good thing is you dont need any experience. 
Just come in and try it Who knows?
Table Talk is the first playlet to be produced 
and certainly the future of Short Plays has a lot 
to do with its success. The play is a comedy 
about a couple who are trying to have a quiet
THIS WEEK IN DH2210
Thursday, October 15
La Ptbada
The winner of the Best Foreign Fiim Oscar for 1954, this film by Frederico Fellini tells 
of a simple peasant girl (Giulietta Masina) who is sold to a circus strongman (Anthony 
Quinn). As she travels with him, enduring his continual abuse, she develops an odd sense 
of adoration for him despite his insults to her. Nino Rota supplies the poetic fijm with a 
fitting score. In Italian with English subtitles.
Director: Frederico Fellini
Stars: Ajithoqy, Quinn. Giulietta JVlasina, Richard Basehart
Showtimes: 6.8,10,12
Friday, October 16
Any Which Way You Can
A fairly bad Clint Eastwood movie, where the mayor of Carmel plays a fistfighter. 
Sondra Locke plays a mediocre country singer, and Clyde the orangutan plays himself, 
just like most of them did in the prequel Every Which Way But Loose, which was much 
funnier. Boring, not funny, and one of the reasons that Eastwood ran for office instead. See 
it if it 's warm and you're drunk; otherw ise skip it and save the buck.
Director: Buddy Van Horn
Stars: Clint Eastwood, Sondra Locke, Ruth Gordon 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Saturday. October 17
The Living Daylights
Timothy Dalton reprises the role of James Bond for the third time (fourth if you 
remember whats-his-name. but nobody does), Maryam d'Abo plays his female interest, 
a Commie cellist, or something. John Glen moves the picture in the same way as 
Octopussy, zooming right along from crisis to crisis. The plot is somewhat incomprehen
sible. but the movie is fun anyway. If you want plot, go watch Dr. No tomorrow night. 
Director: John Glen 
Stars: Timothy Dalton, Maryam dAbo 
Showtimes: 6,8:30,11
Sunday, October 18
Dr. No
The penultimate, and first. Bond movie, Sean Connery establishes the Bond persona as 
the perfectly debonair and deadly spy. Dr. No.(Joseph Wiseman) is one of the best Bond 
' baddies ever, and Ursula Andress looks great in a bikini (even a 1962 bikini). What more 
could you want? Directed by Terence Young.
Director: Terence Young
Stars: Sean Connery, Ursula Andress. Joesph Wiseman 
Showtimes: 6,8,10 
Bv DAN BIDWA
Mansur Bailet School
420 N. Craig St. (PO Box 7300) Oakland 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213 Phone: 687-6473
Featuring: Technique, Pointe, Variations, Character, Jazz 
For levels: Pre-Ballet (4 & up), Beginner, Intermediate, Advanced, Adult 
"Nutcracker performances at Christmas Time: 
Dec. 12 & 13 (Pittsburgh) 
Dec. 20 (New Castle) Dec. 30 (The Carnegie -12:30 pm) 
Other Dates to be announced
dinner but are plagued by such things as Mafia 
shootouts, Cuban revolutionaries and the ina
bility to get the right wine. Grillo-Marxuach 
said, Were trying to be like Dominos PizzaFast, Funny, and Free. Its positive and its en
tertaining. People like that.
According to Grillo-Marxuach, most every
one involved is very excited about the start of 
Short Plays. Its somethingnew. Ithasntbeen 
done before. Its fresh.
Table Talk is following in some impressive 
footsteps. Both Pippin and Godspell, two 
Broadway plays, were originally written for 
Scotch and Soda.
E.e.HI|
Q.eu.&
NEXT WEEK IN DH2210
Thursday, October 22
The 39 Steps
Hitchcocks first masterpiece, which was the model for many of his later pictures. 
Robert Donat is wanted for a murder in his apartment. He is innocent (the murderers were 
foreign spies), but the police as well as the spies are after him, and he can clear himself 
only by discovering the secret of the 39 steps. Meeting Madeleine Carroll on a train, he 
eventually ends up in love with her. The script was adapted from a novel by John Buchan, 
and is an amazing presentation of suspense and drama.
Director: Alfred Hitchcock
Stars: Robert Donat, Madeleine Carroll
Showtimes: 6,8,10
Friday, October 23
Peggy Sue Got Married
Kathleen Turner falls asleep at the 25th reunion of her high school class, and wakes up 
in 1960. She then sets out to fix her relationship with her soon-to-be-philandering-husband 
Nicolas Cage, as well as removing any regrets she had from high school, getting to know 
the high school beatnik rebel Kevin OConnor, and basically reliving the hell out of 
everybody. Francis Coppola finally directs another good movie.
Director: Francis Coppola
Stars: Kathleen Turner, Nicolas Cage, Kevm'OConnor
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Saturday, October 24
Lethal Weapon
Mel Gibson is a suicidal Vietnam veteran and Danny Glover is a settled and happy 
Vietnam vet with a family. Theyre both cops, and somehow they get stuck together to go 
after some former CIA heroin runners (also Vietnam veterans). Lots of flash, crash, and 
bang-bang; no great message here. Worth a buck on a warm night 
Director: A.E. Green 
Stars: Mel Gibson, Danny Glover 
Showtimes: 6,8,10,12
Sunday, October 25
 From Russia With Love
The second Bond movieproves that they did it better back then. Proves that a Bond movie 
can be intelligently action-packed and not silly. Sean Connery and Daniela Bianchi play 
spies and lovers, he for Britain, she for Russia, who are both on the hit list of a dead assassin 
(Robert Shaw). An amazingly good movie, especially when the present nature of Bond 
movies is considered. Go see it regardless of weather or price.
Director Terence Young
Stars: Sean Connery, Daniela Bianchi, Robert Shaw, Lotte Lenya 
Showtimes: 6,8,10 
By DAN BIDWA
rmoCimini Hair Design
2 Blocks from CMU
406 South Craig St. Oakland 
Phone: 621-HAIR
HAIR CUT 
10 BUCKS!!
Walk-ins Welcome
\
0
O
U
law

---------------------------------------------------

October 13,1987The TartanPage Dll
/RRUoR2SwSRPT
Richard M. Cyert will have open office hours 
for students between 2:30 pm and 5 pm, in his 
office, 602 Warner Hall on Wednesday, No
vember 9. Students who wish to meet with the 
president should telephone his secretary at 
268-2200 to set up an appointment.
Student Ombudsman will have open office 
hours for students to discuss concerns and help 
resolve problems. Days and times available 
for appointments are at the Skibo Information 
desk @x2170 between 9 am5 pm.
Papyrus, Pens, and Pixels Exhibit The 
ways that changing technology have altered 
our alphabet. Letterforms have changed with 
the inventions of the steel pen, the printing 
press and the computer. Tools of lettermaking 
shown. Exhibit designed by five CM senior 
graphic designers. Hunt Library, 4th floor, 
Fine & Rare Book Room. 1:30 -4:30, Monday 
through Friday.
On the Line: The New Color Photojourna
lism. An exhibition of color photographs 
organized by the Walker Art Center in Min
neapolis. Through November 8. Carnegie 
Mellon Art Gallery, 407 South Craig Street. 
Gallery Hours are 10 am - 5 pm, Tuesday 
through Friday; 11 am - 5 pm, Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawings from the Eighties. As part of the 
citywide Chatsworth Collaboration of draw
ing exhibitions, the Carnegie Mellon Art Gal
lery features contemporary works on paper. 
Through November 8. Gallery Hours are 10 
am - 5 pm, Tuesday through Friday; 11 am - 5 
pm, Saturday; 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Six Artists: Two and Three Dimensions. 
An exhibition on the interrelationships of the 
drawings and three-dimensional work of 
Mary Bero, Dale Chihuly, Anne Currier, 
Christine Federighi, Peter Gourfain and Mark 
Kobasz. Through November 8. The Society 
for the Art in Crafts; 21st and Smailman 
Streets, the Strip District. Gallery Hours are: 
10 am - 5 pm,Tuesday through Saturday; 1 pm
- 4 pm, Sunday.
Drawing by Old Masters, 16th through 18th 
Centuries. Through October 25. Hewlett 
Gallery, College of Fine Arts, 1st floor. Gal
lery hours are: 11 am -4 pm, Tuesday through 
Saturday and 1 pm - 4 pm, Sunday.
Roman Catholic Oratory. Celebrate mass 
on campus at 7 pm, Saturday night and 10:30 
am, Sunday morning, in the GSIA Audito
rium. Daily Mass is celebrated at 12:30 pm, 
Monday through Friday, in CMs Chapel 
(Skibo Rm. 39). For more information call 
681-3181.
Attention Catholic Singles!!! Arc you look
ing to be part of a group that has a little bit of 
everything for your activiteis, social, reli
gious, sports, community service, etc. If you 
would like an organization that has all these 
qualities, plus being with people that share 
your own ideas, educational and employment 
background, and other interests, call the 
Catholic Alumni Club of Pittsburgh at 341- 
4070 or 461-2247.
Is There Anyone Else Like Me On Campus?
If you are dealing with attractions toward 
members of the same sex, the answer is yes. 
Join sympathetic peers for informal discus
sions of issues that are important to you. For 
details, contact the CMU Gay and Lesbian 
Alliance via campus mail c/o Skibo Informa
tion Desk or via computer mail to ga0y@tb. 
All responses are confidential.
Buhl Science Center.
Laserium. 8 pm and 9:15 pm, Thursday 
through Sunday; and 3 pm, Saturday. For 
current concerts call 321-5554.
Murder in the Planetarium. Friday, Octo
ber 30. Call 321-4302 for information.
First Light. 2 pm, Monday through Thurs
day; 2 pm, 5 pm, 7 pm, Friday; 11 am, 2 pm, 4 
pm, Saturday; and 2 pm, 4 pm, Sunday.
Introduction to the Planetarium. 3 pm, 
Saturday; 1:15 pm, Sunday.
Sounds Sensational. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm -
!CQ= nwf jhAOer, G= ew u 5 nwf mePohOer, eRO 
G nw u 5 nwf moROerb
The Right Moves. IShweRSRP SDEAAP eP G 
nw u 5 nwf >UROer PEhUolE FEohTOer, G nw u 
!CQ= nwf jhAOer, G= ew u 5 nwf mePohOer, eRO 
G nw u 5 nwf moROerb
Batter Up. IShweRSRP SDEAAP eP G nw u 5 
nwf >UROer PEhUolE FEohTOer, G nw u !CQ= 
nwf jhAOer, G= ew u 5 nwf mePohOer, eRO G nw
- 5 nwf moROerb
Color. IShweRSRP SDEAAP eP G nw u 5 nwf 
>UROer PEhUolE FEohTOer, G nw u !CQ= nwf 
jhAOer, G= ew u 5 nwf mePohOer, eRO G nw u 5 
nwf moROerb
Bio Corner. IShweRSRP SDEAAP eP G nw u 5 
nwf >UROer PEhUolE FEohTOer, G nw u !CQ= 
nwf jhAOer, G= ew u 5 nwf mePohOer, eRO G nw
- 5 nwf moROerb
Image Imagination. IShweRSRP SDEAAP eP G
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and 
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Foucault Pendulum. Permanent exhibit at 1 
pm - 5 pm, Monday through Thursday; 1 pm - 
9:30 pm, Friday; 10 am - 5 pm, Saturday; and
1 pm - 5 pm, Sunday.
Observatory. Friday evenings, weather 
permitting.
Pittsburgh Playhouse Jr. Theatre. The
Ghost of Mr. Penny. Mr. Penny has disappeared-and for ten years his secret has been 
hidden in his haunted house. Four adventur
ous children and an amiable but shrewd hobo 
join forces to explore the old Penny 
mansion...and solve the mystery! 11 am, 2:30 
pm, Saturday; 2:30 pm, Sunday. Through 
November 8. For ticket information call 621- 
4445.
  >) Vox
Girl in MMP with blond hair 
and brown jacket who lent me a 
Kermit disk: I think I love you.
Thanks to St. Jude for prayers 
answered.
Bob' I hate your answering 
machine. At least you didn't 
wear a tie.
-Marvin
Marta^ Don't forget to use a 
condom.
'Your Mother
MartaListen to your mother. 
'Your Father
U^opuli
PKANo, 1 don't do mushrooms!
'D.
JeffMove your garbage off the floor 
if you want to be able to find any of 
it tomorrow.
-Your Roommate
Witchette (Boop)- You say you're in 
the south of Francegetting a tan? I'm 
glad you is dooing dat.
'She Do
MarilynYou are zapendudious. 
'Sparky
Bruce' I knew you could make the 
earth move...
Be a part of 
The new addition to The Tartan, where you can put 
anything you want in print! For FREE!
 Let that special someone know how you feel...
 Thank all those people youVe been meaning to...
 Vent frustrations against your roommate...
 25 wobds ob less 
 No advebtisesents
 Keep it clean, please
Jrst jot yorb sessage on a sueet of papeb, and send it via casprs sail to:
Vox Populi 
c/o The Tartan 
Skibo Information Desk
"The Carnegie Ocean Liner Takes Another Journey..."
Carnegie Mellon University 
annual
TALENT SHOW
sponsored by
SPIRIT ORGANIZATION
and
ACTIVITES BOARD
SUNDAY OCTOBER 25,1987 
SKIBO BALLROOM 
7:30 
ADMISSION FREE!!
Sponsored by your Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Page D12The TartanOctober 13,1987
Events
1 'l Tuesday
*. Movies
The Thirty-nine Steps, starring Robert Donat 
and Madeleine Carroll. One of Hitchcocks 
best about an innocent man involved in spy 
ring activities. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Lectures
Department of Chemical Engineering 
Seminar. Dr. Truls Gundersen, Norsk Hydro 
and the Norwegian Institute of Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway, speak on The Synthesis 
of Cost Optimal Heat Exchanger Networks: 
An Industrial Review at 11 am in DH 1112. 
Coffee and pastries are served at 10:45 am in 
DH 1102.
Department of Architecture Lecture.
Heikki Siren, Professor of Architecture, 
SAFA, Finland, speaks at at 8:30 pm in WeH 
7500.
Workshops
Career Decision Making Series for Seniors.
Have you had second thoughts about your 
career goals or do you not really know what 
your options are? This four session seminar is 
designed to help you assess your interests, 
abilities and values, explore current career 
options as well as new ideas, and clarify short 
and long range goals; at 3:30 pm in Skibo Rm 
201.
Special Events
French Table. The Modern Languages De
partment sponsors a French Language table at 
11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall.
Division. Pick up your lunch in the lobby of 
Scotland Yard. Free soda, coffee and tea is 
available in the Wherrett Room.
Spanish Table. The Modem Language De
partment sponsors a Spanish Language table 
at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining hall. 
Educational Action on Latin America 
group meeting. Skibo Rm. 112 at 7 pm. All are 
welcome. For more information call Peter at 
x7651.
American Society of Mechanical Engineers
General Meeting. Anyone interested in be
coming a member is invited. Award-winning 
ASME films are to be shown. SH 125. For 
more information call John Matz, x4287.
1 C Thursday
V/ Movies
On the Beach, starring Gregory Peck, Ava 
Gardner and Fred Astaire. Well-acted adapta
tion of Nevil Shutes novel about the survivors 
of a nuclear war. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 
pm and 9:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
La Stradam, sponsored by AB Films. DH 
2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm and 10pm. Admission$l.
Workshops
Career Decision Making Series for Seniors.
Have you had second thoughts about your 
career goals or do you not really know what 
your options are? This four session seminar is 
designed to help you assess your interests, 
abilities and values, explore current career 
options as well as new ideas, and clarify short 
and long range goals; at 3:30 pm in Skibo Rm 
112.
Special Events
German Table. The Modem Languages 
Department sponsors a German Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
14 Wednesday -*  Friday
M \ Movies
One Flew over the Cuckoos Nest, starring 
Jack Nicholson and Louise Fletcher. A shat
tering look inside a mental hospital. Pitts
burgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm and 9:50 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
Law of Desire. With a triangle of all male 
lovers and comedienne Carmen Maura as the 
protaganists brother-become-sister, ques
tions of gender are confused if not irrelevent. 
The film seductively sweeps the audience into 
the passions and pastimes of its characters. 
Law of Desire is a celebration of passion and 
sexuality. This film is campy, hysterical, lush, 
erotic and lurid. Filmmakers at the Fulton, 101 
Sixth Street Downtown. For showing time 
call 471-9700. Admission $3.
Lectures
Department of Architecture Seminar.
Heikki Siren, Professor of Architecture, 
SAFA, Finland, speaks at noon in CFA 206. 
Carnegie Mellon Visiting Writers Seminar. 
Bill Tremblay, poet, presents his work at 8 pm 
in the Adamson Wing, BH.
Special Events
Whats New at Carnegie Mellon? In a series 
of informal lunch hour discussions, key Car
negie Mellon administrators and faculty tell 
the campus community. This weeks discus
sion is: Background information on major 
newspaper stories about Carnegie Mellon. 
Free brown bag lunches for the first 75 atten
dees are provided by the University Relations
Ran, starring Tatsuya Nakadai. Excellent 
adaptation of Shakespeares King Lear as a 
father gives his land and power to his three 
sons with tragic results. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 10:15 pm. Admission $2.95. 
Any Which Way You Can, sponsored by AB 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8 pm, 11 pm and 
midnight. Admission $1.
Lectures
Department of Architecture Seminar.
Heikki Siren, Professor of Architecture, 
SAFA, Finland, speaks at noon in CFA 206. 
Department of Psychology Colloquium. 
Dr. Phil Kellman, Swarthmore College, 
speaks on The Perception of Objects and 
Boundaries in the Visual World at 4 pm in the 
Adamson Wing, BH.
n Saturday
Movies
Mona Lisa, starring Bob Hoskins, Cathy 
Tyson and Michael Caine. Solid acting, espe
cially from Hoskins, highlights this film about 
a small-time gangster who returns from prison 
to become a driver for a prostitute. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse at 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm and 11:30 pm. 
Admission $2.95.
The Living Daylights, sponsored by SDC 
Films. DH 2210 at 6 pm, 8:30 pm and 11 pm. 
Admission $1.
Special Events
Science Fiction Authors Panel.
P.A.R.S.E.C. (Pittsburgh Area Realtime 
Scientifiction Enthusiasts Club) is presenting 
a panel discussion with several local science 
fiction authors. Refreshments are served, 
snack contributions appreciated. No fee. 
West End Branch of The Carnegie Library of 
Pittsburgh, basement meetingroom, at 2 pm.
Sports
Football. Away game against Thiel College,
2 pm.
Seven Brides For Seven Brothers, starring 
Howard Keel, Jane Powell and Russ Tamblyn. 
Memorable musical about backwoodsmen out 
to get wives. Pittsburgh Playhouse at 7:30 pm 
and 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Dr. No, sponsored by AB Films. DH 2210 at 
6 pm, 8 pm and 10 pm. Admission $1.
Special Events
Columbus, Ohio and a Taste of German 
Village. A three-hour bus ride will take us to 
Columbus, Ohio where we will tour forbid
den places and historic neighborhoods in the 
downtown area followed by a tour and ethnic 
dinner in German Village, settled in the early 
Historic Places. The restored residential char
acter of German Village and old world 
atmosphere are a delight to experience. The 
tour fare includes transportation, lunch at the 
Ohio Historical Village, dinner and all tour 
fees. Meet at the Sheraton at Station Square. 
Advance payment and reservations due by 
October 9. Call 471-5808 for details.
The Hustler, starring Paul Newman, Jackie 
Gleason, George C. Scott and Piper Laurie. 
Terrific acting ensemble in this prequel to 
The Color of Money Newman, Scott and 
Gleason are wonderful. Pittsburgh Playhouse 
at 7:30 pm and 9:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
C
Lectures
Department of Art Lecture. Karin Broker, 
printmaker, speaks on her work at 7 pm in 
WeH 7500.
Special Events
Japanese Table. The Modem Language 
Department sponsors a Japanese Language 
Table at 11:30 am in the Morewood dining 
hall.
If you wish to place an announcement, miscella
neous item, or event in The Tartan, send it to 
Campus Calendar / University Relations / 
Carnegie Mellon University / Pittsburgh, PA 
15213. Send it by campus mail to the above 
address or drop it off at 5017 Forbes Ave {The
house between AY and ATQ).
Please include the following information when 
submitting events: Title of event, sponsor, brief 
description, location, date, and time. In addition, 
include the name and phone number of the 
person submitting the entry; this information will 
be used only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy 
or validity of any Event listing. In addition, it 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 
publication.
All events are free of charge and open to the 
general CMU student population unless 
otherwise noted.
Deadline for Calendar submissions is Wednes
day at 5 pm for the next weeks issue.
Classifieds
Jobs/Wanted
Earn $hundreds weekly$ in your spare time. 
United Services of America is looking for home
workers to perform mail services. Incentive pro
grams available. For information send large self 
addressed stamped envelope to U.S.A., 24307 
Magic Mtn. Pkwy., Suite #306, Valencia, CA 
91355.
Feature Film Producer wants part-time com
puter programmer, Coraopolis area. Knowledge 
of D-BASE III PLUS necessary. Flexible hours, 
negotiable salary. Call Ingrid, 264-2920.
Counter persons and manager needed parttime for deli-type restaurant in Oakland. Call 
856-1822.
Wanted-Typist to work evenings and/or week
ends (your choice) on campus. $6.00/hr. John 
268-2853 or 829-7678.
===== Mise -
Drive a Car Anywhere Free. Pay gas only. A1 Auto Movers. 828-4813.
Good Softwares Celebrity Word Processor 
Plus for IBM P.C. & compatibles. $69.95 Call 
Danny Wright 521-5718. Dictionary, Appoint
ment Calendar, more.
Services
Typing/Writing Services - Term papers, dis
sertations, thesis, resumes. Spelling & grammar 
included. Lillian Mudgett - North Hills - 486- 
8577.
MTS 24-hour Typing/Word Processing (Spe
cializes in last minute work) Same day Resume 
service. Typewriter rental available short/long 
term leases. 371-3657.
WORD PROCESSING SERVICES. Typing 
completed to vour specifications. Call for more 
info: Before 3:00 pm Sandie 673-8870 or Sharon 
373-2287.
For Sale
Parties...Parties...Parties
We have everything for your party at Papermart - One stop party shopping. Halloween, Xmas, New Years, and much more. Over 10,000 
square feet of party. Party favors, decorations, 
and a wide variety of novelties. Close to campus
- Morewood Avenue at Baum. 681 -8900.
RESEARCH PAPERS. 15,278 Available! 
Catalog $2.00. Research, 11322 Idaho, #206XT, 
Los Angeles 90025. Toll Free (800)351-0222, 
Ext. 33. Visa/MC or COD.
85 PONTIAC SUNBIRD 2-door, auto., A/C, 
AM/FM stereo, r. dfgr., Ziebart, alarm, sunroof, 
9500 mi. Like new 242-6256.
Personals
GRAD, Good-looking with strange, somewhat 
unique personality desires relationship involv
ing love, sex, or money. For further details call 
Tom @ 381-4548.
