Vol. 69, No. 44 C-MU TUESDAY, APRIL 7, 1970

---------------------------------------------------

Page 2THE TARTANTuesday, April 7, 1970
EDITORIAL
Freedom Now. Stop the War. Peace Now. Power to the People. 
Strike. Give a Damn. EarthLove It or Leave It.
We are expert slogan-makers. Yet examples of students acting 
on what they preach are few and far between. We have demanded 
an end to the waran end to the draft. A tew students have burned 
their draft cards. A few more have organized Conferences and 
Symposiums and Moratoriums to show strength to the establishment 
and to talk about the problems. How many have sought a workable 
alternative? How many of us have actually organized in support of 
the current proposal to make the army all-volunteer? How many in
dividuals have written letters to Senators and Congressmen to urge 
them to vote for this bill? We seem to like to get out in the streets, 
shout slogans, hold endless talk sessions. But have we addressed outselves adequately to the one workable alternative that the establish
ment has presented to us?
Even more common is our endless articulation about the rotten 
environment we live in. made such, we declare, by the same gov
ernment and corporate power structure that has brought us the 
bomb, the war, racism, poverty and more profits for the robber 
barons. We say they are guilty since it is "not in their interest' to 
preserve the environment for us  the next generation. But how are 
we preserving the environment for us? _
Are we not as guilty as they? Look around. Do not start at 
J&L Steel  begin here  our home away from home. We allow the 
University to be a pollutant, a puppet of industry. But we too are 
pollutants and puppets.
Hyprocrisy is universal  not singular to one group. Skibo din
ing halls are littered with cigaret butts and empty packages, over
turned cups and plates, newspapers, candy wrappers and other trash. 
Carpets and upholstery are full of ashes and cigarette burns. Why use 
the garbage cans when we can use the floor? Why use them, indeed, 
when we have the whole cut on which to screw our filth? Where have all 
the ash trays gone'. Have we asked?
Further, how many of we button-wearers have sold our cars 
or stopped driving Daddys to school each day? We don't even use 
lead-free gasoline. And our pockets are full of credit cards that did 
not come from the Peace Movement or the Ecology Movement or 
any movement we would like to claim sympathy with.
Self-complacently we tell ourselves that we had one of the first 
Environmental Teach-In s to be held on an American campus. But 
have we looked at the earth on which we built those geodesic dom
es? No one requested that cars be parked in the lot behind Baker 
Hall, instead of right next to the Teach-In site raping the wet 
earth.
Rehtoric is tiresome. Our rhetoric is violent, often colored 
with expletive, seldom going any further than the mere expression 
of anger. We do not listen to the other side; they do not listen to 
us. And we do not do anything. It is time to practice what we 
preach.
In Washington D. C. at a recent Conference on Ecology, the 
words flew fast and thick from both sides. Student Editors parti
cipating in the four-day sessions condemned Walter Hickel. Secretery of the Interior, for his lack of action. They asked him to give 
up his position in government if he would not act immediately to 
put the brakes on against the rape of our environment. But the same 
hecklers were those who repeatedly stated We dont want to fix the 
rotten world we live inwe want out!" This kind of statement is 
certainly not hypocritical in itself, yet is clearly self-condemnatory. 
Some students, when faced with the need for action, plead ignorance, 
declare impotence, whant out.
Most of us do claim to want to act. but the facts show that all 
too often we do not follow through. We cannot plead ignorance. The 
Congressional Record can be found in the Library. Most local 
lawmakers read their mail. Sources of statistics are endless. Impor
tant groups are lobbying for conservation in Washington. Do we 
support them, in word or action? Ecology is not new we are just 
new at it, but all of our shouting of slogans will get us exactly no
where. If we ask the establishment to act we must be prepared to 
do so ourselves.
In correcting any inequitable or unsatisfactory situation, we 
who are concerned should look first to ourselves. Our own lives 
may provide us with examples of what is wrong with the rest of the 
world, and provide us with clues for problem solving, not more slo
gans. We must get ourselves straight that is the first of all priori
ties.
"The evil that is in the world always comes of ignorance, and 
good intentions may do as much harm as malevolence, if they lack 
understanding. On the whole, men are more good than bad; that, 
however, is not the point  but that they are more or less ignor
ant, and it is this that we shall call vice or virtue.
 Albert Camus.
Plead Ignorance is a slogan we have thrown at lawmakers 
and corporations. How much longer will we plead the same?
Jenifer Digby
TQRlON
Published every Tuesday and Friday
Editorial and Business OfficesSkibo 103 
Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213Telephone: 682-4557
ERICA BORDEN, Editor-in-Chief
Associate Editor Jenifer Digby
Business Manager Sue Cattano
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Birth Control Is Not A Sterile Issue
Editor, the Tartan;
So you didn't dig the Birth 
Control Handbook, Mrs. Hick
man. Great, but a handbook pub
lished as you would wish to see 
it would neglect a clear duty 
the same duty that is neglected 
if people are only told how the 
atmosphere is polluted but not 
who is polluting it or why they 
won t stop. Any birth control 
handbook has the obligation to 
discuss the important social 
and political factors involved.
The most obvious social factor 
is that related to women as in
dividuals. Birth control does not 
create a liberated women iwe 
will assume. Mrs. Hickman, 
that you are not opposed to liber
ated women). By releasing males 
from responsibility, it may easi
ly be used to keep women in the 
role of a sex object. The Hand
book tries to make the woman 
aware of her potential as a per
son. The liberated woman is not 
defined by sexual freedom but 
by the freedom to engage or to 
abstain from sexual relations, to 
use her mind and body toward 
socially productive ends, and to 
enter a profession on an equalitarian level.
Birth control becomes a poli
tical tool when it is irreversibly 
forced upon people so that neith
er the decision to halt child 
bearing not to resume it are 
left to the individual. It then 
becomes population control. It is 
this control  sterilization and 
IUD's that can only be removed 
by gynecologists  that is em
ployed in Africa. Asia, and Latin 
America by white nations whose 
supremacy is threatened by the 
populous Third World. Five and
a half million men in India 
have been sterilized by Ameri\ 
can supported programs  many 
were not informed of the irrev
ersibility of their sterilization 
until after the operation. This 
is not the benevolent white fa
ther aiding the poor countries. *# 
this is genocide.
So. Mrs. Hickman, the extent 
to which you consider the Birth 
Control Handbook an article of 
propaganda only reflects the 
degree to which you have ac
cepted your own country's pro
paganda.
The booklet was free, if you 
didn't gas on it. return it.
Patrick Cavanagh 
past Chairman.
Birth Control Committee
Judy Gibbons 
Birth Control Committee
Course Requirements Should Be Abolished
Editor. The Tartan;
At the present time, there is 
a great controversy raging in 
the College of Humanities and 
Social Sciences over the ques
tion of college requirements. 
The position of those supporting 
the retention of core require
ments seems to be that all hum
anities students should be forced 
to take certain courses so that 
when they graduate they will 
be well-rounded individuals. 
The supporters of this position 
are trying to make for the stu
dents. as a whole, certain deci
sions which should be left up 
to each individual student. What, 
in effect, they are saying is that 
this, and that, field are worthwhile. but those other fields are 
not. By requiring the student to 
take, say. 'The Arts and Socie
ty. they are preventing him 
from taking an English course, 
or a math course, or even a 
different art course. Why? The 
quantity of human' knowledge 
today is so huge that no indi
vidual can ever hope to study it 
all. It is practically impossible 
even to become an expert in one 
field, or even a branch of that 
field. Each student has to make 
a decision. Do I want to study 
intensively in one small branch 
of a science and become an ex
pert in that tiny segment of hu
man knowledge, or do I. perhaps, 
want to sacrifice the depth I 
could get in that one branch by
increasing the scope to include 
the science itself? Or. perhaps, 
to several fields? How can the 
school make that decision for ev
ery single student? Because that 
is what it is trying to do. It is 
forcing many students to waste 
their very limited time at this 
university by studying subjects 
which do not fit in to the pat
terns of study chosen by those 
students. Can there really be any 
doubt as to the value of a course 
chisen by the student himself as 
opposed to one which is forced 
upon him and for which he does 
the bare minimum necessary to 
pass? I think not.
Michael Poliak 
H&SS Freshman
Environmental Teach In is Hypocritical
Editor, the Tartan;
..Time magazine a few weeks 
ago stated that the environment 
has replaced the WAR as the 
number one issue on the college 
campus.
Having seen the environmen
tal teach-in I now question the 
intent and worth of such a pro
gram. It smacks of hypocrisy. 
Why build booths on the lawn 
between Doherty and Baker? 
Why not build them in a park
ing lot  a surface that has al
ready destroyed a part of nature
 instead of ruining a plot of 
grass? Not only was the grass 
killed through booth usage but 
the persons who ran the program 
drove their cars up on the grass.
destroying more of what they are 
protesting the destruction of. Of 
what value were the booths? 
All the work done inside was 
very unimaginative and ineffec
tive. If you want to demonstrate 
pollution why not walk across the 
bridge over the railroad tracks 
between Scaif and the Carnegie 
Library? Look down. Thats pol
lution. Walk up to the top of 
Flagstaff hill and take a look at 
the pollution billowing from the 
J&L smoke stacks. Thats real 
pollution.
Hypocrisy. Collect money and 
buy a lot of wood, a lot of plas
tic, a lot of junk, and little but
tons that one can wear to show 
his concern for the environment. 
From whom were all these items
purchased? Industry. By buy
ing all those materials industry 
is being supported, industry that 
is itself destroying our environ
ment. I must question the intent 
of a project that raises a large 
sum of money then uses its 
capital to further the cause it is 
protesting.
It is no wonder American in
dustry and the U.S. government 
support environmental activism. 
Not only does it remove th WAR 
from the focus, of everyones at
tention Dut it epitomizes the 
American way.
Environmental Teach-In. It's 
all so much bullshit.
Eric Fuarmann 
U. of Pittsburgh 72
New College Fails To Meet Individual's Needs
COVER DESIGNGretchen Saks
Editor. The Tartan;
Now that my freshman year of 
college is drawing to a close and 
I am older and wiser. I can look 
back over my experience of func
tioning in this school s system 
of education and say that it 
doesn't work. At least not for me.
The philosophy of education 
that the New College expounds 
maintains that a liberal educa
tion calls for a basic knowledge 
in a variety of academic areas 
and that the student must be 
told, at the very least, from 
which areas he may pick his 
courses. The student, of course, 
is not capable of deciding this 
for himself.
Well the administrators may 
not be aware of this vet. but we 
are not in high school any more. 
By the time a student reaches 
college, it is not only his right.
but his responsibility to direct 
his own education. I know what 
I want to study and the present 
system is preventing me from 
doing it. I am carrying fifty-four 
units this semester and still not 
taking the courses I want. When 
a person spends four years in col
lege reluctantly channeling nis 
energies towards courses he is 
only half-interested in rather 
than immersing himself in the 
work of his own choice, he is 
wasting one hell of a lot of 
time. And nobody has the right 
to force anyone to waste his 
time. Admittedly, not all stu
dents know what they're inter
ested in when they first get to 
college. The answer then is not 
to tell them what they have to 
take, but suggest what might 
be an advisable course of study.
The basic problem with the 
policy of the New College is that
Vol.69 
,Nl6.4NC
Tickets Now on Sale 
SKIBO 103
it treats the student body as a 
mass and doesn't recognize them 
as individuals who often have * 
vastly differing interests and 
needs. When the policies ot a 
school curtail the individuals 
freedom to design his education 
according to his interests and 
needs, and so is consequently 
interfering with his education, 
then that institution is not 
serving its purpose.
Beverlv Wolfson

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 7, 1970THE TARTANPage 3
\a.m.sal f.a Student-Diaected Educati.n
Since there is a conflict of ideologies which 
is not likely to be successfully resolved at this 
time;
Since this is a college of experimentation in 
which we attempt to be self-actualizing, selfevolving, experimental and self-evaluative;
%
Since time and data are needed for an ade
quate and thorough study of various proposed 
systems of education;
WE PROPOSE that an experimental sys
tem be instituted for next years Freshmen and 
Sophomores in which:
1) College requirements be eliminated; 
Students of the New College (Freshmen and 
Sophomores) may choose any courses for which 
they have fulfilled the prerequisites. They will 
be graded under a CreditNo Entry System 
(Sophomores may opt for a Letter-Grade Sys
tem).
2) The College Council through the Deans 
Office will mail to all incoming Freshmen and 
present Freshmen a sheet containing their sug
gestions for what might be a well-integrated, 
well-balanced and fulfilling year (this would 
presumably be similar to the present Freshman 
and Sophomore years).
3) During this experimental year a study 
be conducted on campus weighing the merits 
and results of this proposed system with the pre
sent system and other suggested systems. They 
will look at data obtained from other campuses 
and other studies, but in particular will study 
the situation at this college from two angles: 
a) comparing the reactions and performance of 
this years Freshman Class under each system, 
and b) comparing the reactions and perform
ance of this years Freshman Class with next 
years Freshman Class under each system. 
Hence, in one case the factor that is a Fresh
man Class is the constant; in the other case the 
actual students of this years class will serve 
as constants. This study will be conducted by a 
committee composed of students, faculty and 
administration. The members will be chosen by 
their respective constituencies. They will pub
lish their findings in the spring of 1971.
4) Departments will agree that during the 
first year (1970-71) they will not substitute de
partmental requirements for the eliminated col
lege requirements. The study will address it
self to this question.
-THE STUDENTS 
OF THE NEW COLLEGE

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4THE TARTANTuesday, April 7, 1970
David Shannonmissing from campus.
Student Disappears From Campus
Senior Chemical Engineering student, 
David Shannon, is reported missing from 
the campus by parents and friends. He was 
last seen on Sunday, March 29. No word 
has been received at his home or his fra
ternity, Alpha Tau Omega. One of the broth
ers received a mysterious phone call last 
week from a girl who said she knew Dav
ids whereabouts. The caller, however, did 
not appear at the pre-arranged meeting 
place when the brother met the appoint
ment.
Shannon left the house without taking any 
clothing or his medicine. He did tell his sister 
that morning that she could expect not to hear 
from him for a week.
Anyone having information about Davids 
dissappearanee or his present whereabouts 
should contact Dean Williams or call ATO at 
682-9412.
This is not a joke. David a very quiet and 
serious student. Neither his family nor his 
friends feel that he would intentionally disap
pear without notifying them.
TARTAN STAFF MEETING-TONIGHT 7:30
Everyone Required To Attend 
To Select Next Years Staff
LETTERS TO THE EDITOR
Earth Pollution Most Terrifying Problem
(Editor's note: The following letter was distributed at 
the College Editor's Conference. Washington. DC . 
February 27-March 2, by students from American Uni
versity. The Conference, titled "What's the Difference It 
We Dont Wake UP?, was sponsored by The United 
States Student Press Association, and dealt with prob
lems of the environment and how tfe as students can 
address ourselves to their solution. >
Fellow Human Beings,
The pollution of the earth has created the most 
urgent and terrifying problem ever faced on this plan
et. Our scientists know that if there are not drastic 
programs in relation to birth control and the economy 
of planned obsolescence and waste the human species 
will die from a poisoned environment in 35 years.
This country alone pours 20 million tons of waste 
a day into the air. water and land. The United States 
is responsible for almost half the total pollution of our 
earth. On February 7th. the New York Times reported 
on a States Environmebt Quality Council in which Ken
neth Watt, University of California Ecologist, predicted 
that by the winter of 1975-76, smog in the Los Ange
les basin will be enough to cause mass deaths.
Our federal pollution programs are completely in
adequate in every respect. The Nixon Administration's 
program is as ineffective as putting a band-aid on 
someone suffering from cancer.
The organization for Economic Development and 
Co-operation estimates that it will cost the United 
States $40 billion a year merely to stem the tide of the 
effects of the pollution we have already created. It 
will cost an estimated $120 billion a year to prevent 
universal death  the same amount this nation has
Led Zeppelin
Dear Peter and Sam.
Led Zeppelin played to a sell-out crowd at the 
Pittsburgh Civic Arena last Monday evening. March 
30th.
The entire with-it, hip, freaked-out, pseuedo hippie 
high school population of Pittsburgh was there, sitting 
around the lobby of the Arena like crows on a tele
phone wire. I never will understand why people like 
to sit around like that unless its to say "Ha! look at 
me, how hip I am!
Anyway, the concert was a half an hour late in 
starting, allegedly because the concert was a sell-out 
but everyone wasnt in their seat, (how could they be. 
they were all sitting around outside looking hip)
But when the concert did start, it started badly. 
Jimmy Page and Robert Plant were on the stage, wig
gling their hips and acting like two complete jackasses. 
The only thing that was coming out of the amplifiers 
was a lot of grauch and fuzz and feedback, and the 
music was really poor. It went on like this for about 
twenty minutes and I was sitting there thinking how 
many Jeff Beck records I could buy with five dollars.
Then everybody got off the stage and Plant intro
duced Jimmy Page as the White Thummah. And he 
sat down and really played the hell out of Black 
Mountain Side. It was really fine.
After that, the group came back for a while and 
played some more. Then they started playing "Moby 
Dick, which has to have one of the worlds worst
spent for the Vietnam war. We cannot afford to con
tinue to have a military budget of $68 billion a year. 
We must change our priorities rapidly or we will have 
the dubious distinction of being the most powerful 
military state in the history of man that could not de
fend itself from suffocation by its own garbage. Mak
ing peace with nature is one peace movement that ev
eryone must join. Those mothers and fathers who have 
recently joined the anti-war movement for the sake of 
the lives of their draft-eligible sons now have at 
stake the lives of ALL their children. If these people 
do not act to stop the destruction of the air. land and 
water of the earth, all their children will die.
We speak for the young and for generations that 
are not yet born, and it is now time to act. We must 
address our grievances to those who control industrial 
production. Since the automobile industry is respon
sible for 68 per cent of the air polution. we must begin 
a national boycott on the purchase of new cars imme
diately. The American people should not buy any new 
cars until the automobile industry uses its resources 
and influence to provide transportation which is pollution-free. We can no longer allow a small group of el
derly rich managers to make a profit in the short run 
and ensure the destruction of human existence in the 
long run.
Since all industries are responsible for our present 
danger, we must call on the consumers of this nation 
for positive action in the form of a second boycott. 
The retail stores sell products from almost every cor
poration in the United States, and they receive 40 per 
cent of their business during the Christmas season. In
stead of exchanging presents with each other during 
the holiday season of 1970. we will celebrate a "Chris
tmas for Life, and encourage all citizens to give in
drum solos as its feature. But the drummer. John Bon
ham did a really excellent solo for about fifteen min
utes, with and without drumsticks. I couldn't help but 
wonder how sore the guys hands must be. because 
he's been on tour for almost a month, drumming with
out sticks. Then everybody else came back on and they 
started playing songs from Led Zeppelin III and it 
was really nice. It turned out that Jimmy Page can 
really play the guitar, when he stands still. But when he 
starts acting like an asshole, the only sounds he makes 
are grauch. fuzz and feedback.
They played "Whole Lotta Love" and about half
way through the song, people started getting up out of 
their seats and moving towards the stage. Of course, 
our fine Pittsburgh Police Department started moving 
everyone back towards their seats, starting with the 
head. Robert Plant just stopped singing and said "We re 
not gonna play with that going on and the whole 
group just walked off. They came right back however, 
and appealed for order and asked the police. "If you 
want him to sit down, why the HELL are you hittin* 
on'im They finished Whole Lotta Love complete 
with guitar freak-out and they played  Heartbreaker.
This was their last song and they said goodnight 
and everything but there was more trouble on the floor 
so they came back and appealed for peace and gave 
two extra songs as pacifiers. There were screams for 
more so they did another song. Then a bra came sail
ing up onto the stage and they did another song.
stead to some valuable cause such as anti-pollution.
Through campus participation in Tech-Ins students, 
faculty, and administrators must live up to their moral 
responsibility to inform all of our fellow human beings 
of the problems of pollution as well as the relationship 
between the limited resourses of this planet and 
continuing population explosion. Such a national cam
paign is difficult because there are powerful economic 
interests who will attempt to discredit this effort by 
claiming they are not to blame, or saying they are do
ing all they can.
If these actions do not move corporate power to 
preserve this planet for the future, more drastic action 
will occur. This is not a threat, but a certainty. Peo
ple in governmental authority think that the student 
generation has been turbulent over the Vietnam war, 
but they will fully understand the meaning of student 
power only when the full implications of the environ
mental problem become widely known. We must de
mand in the coming election year, regardless of par
ty. that all candidates place pollution control as the 
number 1 priority of the United States. We are going 
to ask each candidate if he or she supports these boy
cotts, and if not, why not. We are sensitive to the pro
blems of poverty, rascism and war. but these affliction 
of society must take second priority. For if we abolish
ed war. solved the problems of poverty, and created a 
society of equality this instant, failure to act concerning 
the pollution of the earth would still mean that we 
will all perish in 35 years regardless of class, color or 
politics. OUR APPEAL IS TO ALL HUMAN BEINGS 
FOR THE SAKE OF THE YOUNG. BECAUSE THEY 
HAVE THE MOST TO LOSE.
American U. Students For Survival
By this time the police were lined up in front of 
the stage but they were out of sight behind a solid wall 
of teeny bopping flesh. Robert Plant didn't help mat
ters any by leaping into the crowd and back onto the 
stage at one point. Another bra came shooting out of 
the crowd. I can see some little chick explaining to her 
mother how she lost her bra.
They finally did another song and I swear I saw 
a policeman standing on the stage with his hat on side
ways, clapping his hands. When they finally did leave, 
one of the promoters came out and announced that 
there is going to be a two day rock festival in Pitts
burgh this summer with such noted artists as Grace 
Slick and the Airplane. Jimi Hendrix, and Chicago. I 
think that if the guy hadn't made this announcement, 
there might have been real trouble. As it was. every
ones attention was taken away from the group.
I cant really say that I enjoyed the concert. May
be its because I expected too much. When I went into
the building I just had the name Jimmy Page stuck in 
my mind. He seemed so unreal. Every picture Ive seen 
of him. hes been so cool and collected that I wasn't 
ready for a Jimi Hendrix replica. I can't say that the 
music was that good either. It was good ol rock and 
roll but it was pretty strung out and not too intense.
At least if the subject comes up. I can say "Yeah.
I saw Led Zeppelin and they werent so hot, and
sound sophisticated. 0. ",Sincerely.
Tom Davis
Give Really Poor Concert

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 7, 1970THE TARTANPage 5
\ittsbuagh Resistance Ga.ums H.ld C.nfeaence
by DOUG CAMPBELL
Pittsburgh Resistance groups 
met on the CMU campus last 
weekend for three days of lec
tures, panel discussions, and 
workshops. The conference. RE
SISTANCE TODAY-ALTERNATIVES TOMORROW, was key
noted on Friday night by Staughton Lynd. a Chicago history 
professor known best for his re
sistance towards corporations.
Describing himself as an el
derly pundit. Lvnd examined 
where the Resistance Movement 
stands now in the process of re
volution. He drew a parellel be
tween the Russian Revolution 
and the one he sees in America 
today declaring that, like the 
Russian Revolution, the present 
American Revolution has passed 
through the stages of naive faith 
in orderly change and the peri
od of terrorist tactics, and must 
now go through a third stage 
which will be a period empha
sizing organization between all 
radical groups.
Prior to Lynds address there 
were pleas from the Conference 
chairmen for everyone in the 
gymnasium crowd of 400 people 
to register with the conference 
so that resisters could be kept 
track of after the conference. 
One speaker briefly announced 
that a Phil Ochs concert was 
being held Sunday evening and 
that tickets would cost $3.00. At 
that point a member of the au
dience spoke up to ask whether 
it would be more in the spirit of 
resistance to have a free concert, 
not a $3.00 concert. The speaker
replied, yes. but that the cost 
was unavoidable and promosed 
free concerts in the future.
Opening his speech. Staughton 
Lynd said that speeches are not 
in the Resistance spirit either 
but. that at this time, with con
fusion in the Movement and the 
disintegration of the SDS. spee
ches are necessary to bring move
ments together. Acknowledging 
distrust of organization especially 
as it killed the 1930-1940 radical 
element of the CIO. Lynd sait 
that to overcome powerful in
stitutions. radicals need discip
line and organization. Movement 
groups mustxegin forming coa
litions with one another; the pre
sent bog down in campus radi
cal action could be solved 
through a coalition among stu
dents. junior faculty, school 
workers and maybe junior ad
ministrators.
Lynd sees the future enemy 
as the Corporation. Radical en
ergy must be turned towards cor
porate resistance. The Move
ment. in order to gain working 
class support, must offer the 
working class some alternatives 
to the corporation. Since Sujnay 
of the conference was planned 
as a day for anti-corporate or
ganizing strategies. Lynd's 
speech set the overall tone andemphasis of the conference.
The anti-corporate theme of 
the Conference, specifically antiGulf Oil. nearly left the resis
tance people without a meeting 
place for Sunday. The Confer
ence was originally planned for 
Carlow College but. two weeks
prior to last weekend. Carlow, 
realizing the nature and purpose 
of the Conference, balked, and 
denied College facilities to the 
Conference. Subsequently, the 
CMU Student Senate and Dean 
of Student Affairs, when asked, 
agreed to reserve campus facili
ties for the Conference on April
3. 4. and 5. But. several days 
prior to the opening of the Con
ference Dr. Kibee. speaking for 
the Administration, announced 
that CMU has a policy of re
serving facilities for outsiders of 
educational or professional pur
pose only, and while the Friday 
and Saturday plans of the Con
ference did come under these 
requirements. Sunday, which was 
to be devoted to strategy and 
planning of resistance to Gulf 
Oil's April 28th stockholder's 
meeting, was a political, rather 
than a professional or education
al program, and would be den
ied University facilities.
On April 2nd. Student Senate 
voted to reserve rooms for the 
Conference under the name of 
Student Senate, and in the name 
of Free Speech. This received 
support from the Executive Com
mittee of the Faculty. Finally on 
Saturday morning the Adminis
tration allowed as how the 
school had made a commit
ment to the Conference, and 
permitted the Sunday meeting 
to go on. asking only for dele
tion of the words planning " and 
' strategy" from the program out
line.
The Saturday portion of the 
Conference was not concerned
Teach In Has Made A Beginning
by VINCE MISITANO
I've seen few Spring days as nice as last Sun
day. and my stroll across campus brought all the 
familiar sights: Jim and Walter frisbee-ing on 
the cut. roller skaters buzzing between Baker and 
Doherty, and many hardy souls braving the sub50 temperature in their shorts and jerseys on 
the tennis court.
I couldn't help but be overwhelmed by all 
the Campus green under the impressively clear 
blue sky. While strolling along, mising at the
beauty of nature. I came across a fellow sitting 
on an old car seat facing the sun in the middle 
of the cut. smiling the most contented smile I've 
ever been witness to. His flowing red hair and 
full beard immediately identified the chap to be 
David Marshall, one of the principals on the
Environmental Teachln steering committee. I ap
proached him. and we exchanged greetings, his 
first comment being, tin his charming irish-or
is it scottish accent? I'm not sure.  ' I'm just
so terribly happy to be alive today!" When I ask
ed him how the ETI had gpne. from his view
point. he replied that it had had "mixed" suc
cess. After admitting that he himself was still 
very confused about what to do about the environ
mental problems, he countered by quoting some 
philosopher or other who had said that even a 
journey of a thousand leagues must begin with 
a first step.
After conversing a few minutes more. I left 
him to enjoy the afternoon sun. He'll be beet-red 
tomorrow, but I'm sure he won't mind  it will 
have been worth it.
After seeing and talking to David. I realiz
ed that he had made a great revelation to me. 
The road to a better environment will be a long 
one. but take heart, for a start has been made. 
Meanwhile, prove yourself worthy of the bet
ter life you seek by acknowledging and enjoying 
the beauty that still exists for you today.
Vince Misitano
H&SS Hold All-College Meeting
An ad hoc committee chaired by Dean Hayes 
and consisting of students Betsy Gould. John. 
Wilson, and Mina Gerall. and faculty members 
James Korn. Lou Schaeffer and Ann Hayes was 
constituted by student and faculty members of 
the H&SS College Council. It was charged with 
planning an all-college meeting to discuss re
quirements in H&SS.
On April 3rd. the committee agreed unani
mously that the all-college meeting should be 
held for the purpose of discussing varuous alter
natives requirement policies for H&SS and the
relative merits of each. The notion that the allcollege meeting should be a decision-making body 
was considered and rejected.
The committee hopes that the meeting will 
help to develop a community spirit among all 
members ot the college, a spirit of co-operation 
to resolve differences rather than to excaberate 
them.
This meeting will be held on Wednesday. 
April 8 at 1:30 p.m. in the basement of Morewood 
gardens. All H&SS classes will be suspended.
Y Thursday Noon Forum
N-M VUTEMSUD oAYPUPRIY NSPLIYD7 
,IS 10M NSUPOuDUIeYPD0LMSU sA-d 
sPU0PS 10M uDUIeYPD0LMSU7
Hear: Jim Seif, Pitt law student and Republican activist 
Charlotte Davis, C-MU political science instructor.
'STUDENT ACTIVISM AND POLITICAL CHANGE' 
This Thursday, April 9  12:30-1:30
STAFF CAFETERIA LOWER LEVEL, SKIBO
STUDENT TICKETS for the 
fourth University Public Lee* 
ture, featuring Paul Draper, 
Andrew Mellon Professor of 
Drama, will be available in 
the Special Projects Office, 
Warner Hall 111, during the 
week of April 6 and there
after.
All other tickets will not be dis
tributed until the week of April 13 
and thereafter to allow students 
first opportunity to get their tickets 
a week earlier.
The lecture will be held at 8:30 
p.m. on Thursday, April 23, in the 
Ballroom of Skibo. We urge you to 
attend this last lecture in the 1969- 70 eries.
with any one activity or issue. 
The lobby of Skibo was jam
med with people wandering 
from table to table set up 
around the perimeter of the lob
by. each table covered with pam
phlets. newspapers, books, mag
azines. and flyers, and manner
ed by representatives of each 
participating Resistance group.
Resistance groups present
included the Black Panther Par
ty. the Revolutionary Socialist 
Union. Tax Resistance, and the 
John Brown Caucus to name only 
a few. Specific panels and work
shops in topics such as Draft 
Resistance, Women's Liberation, 
Ecology Action, Education, and 
Corporate Control were held 
from nine through five oclock in 
classrooms throughout Doherty 
Hall.
Eddie, I love you, please come back soon and save me 
from the mediocrity of this establishment. But mostly I need 
you to belong to; I need more than memories, I cannot fight 
this war of lies alone. Love always, Terri.
Lonely millionaire owns ocean-going yacht and wants 
companions on a Mediterranean cruise. Those who are 
bored, lonely or looking for adventure are welcome on this 
four-week voyage. Sailing from Porto Christo, Italy on June 
20th. To share something novel, something personal.
LUXURY FURNISHED APARTMENTS 
Oakland - Shadyside - Squirrel Hill
A. C., G. E. Dishwashers, Intercoms, Sauna, Gamerooms, etc. 
Available on sublet for May 1st or for September 1st. 
$210.00 up, the A. R. Corp., 261-4463, evenings, 683-9591.
CARNIVAL
IS COMING
APRIL 16 -18
a 10M ,0ILeM-D y-ADp
a 10M ,ASU-IPYD
a VrMMiDUIdMD
a oPRSPR
a P-MrA-dD
a oYISd HATDU
a ,-Ig3 ,ASU-IiUPASD
a VIT-EI3 2ISRM
rPU0 U0M PEMYD 
ISE v Ac I mPSE
And other Sunday Spectacles . . Buy
Tickets for that Chamber Bros. NOW. They are 
on sale at SKIBO 103 for $4.50/person. Don't 
be left out.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 6THE TARTANTuesday, April 7, 1970
Aftermath of Environmental Diaster.Photo by Jerry Siskind
Teach-In F.cuses On \.litical Inacti.n
by CHUCK DALY
The American dream' is 
actually a nightmare rather than 
a dream."' That was the warning 
issued by State Representative 
Gerald Kaufman at the Friday 
session of the Pittsburgh Envir
onmental Teach-In.
Such remarks were typical of 
the Teach-In program, as rep
resentatives from both the pub
lic and private sectors questioned 
agains environmental degrada
tion.
Kaufman offered the future 
.of a pending state proposal to 
eliminate gasolines containing 
lead from the market by 1972 as 
typical of the problems en
countered in fighting for more 
stringent pollution legislation.
"The bill will sail through the 
Legislature, but when it gets 
to the Republican-dominated Sen
ate it will run into opposition 
brought about by the political 
patronage of the Mellon and 
Pew families .... It will die.
The Mellon and Pew families 
control Gulf Oil Co. and Sun 
Oil Co. respectively.
Representative Kaufman pro
posed the democratization of po
litical parties and nomination of 
independent candidates as the 
best weapons the public has in 
fighting for a cause such as en
vironmental purity.
Other speakers held less hope 
for the American political sys^ 
tem.
Historian Staughton Lynd sug
gested that the only sensible sol
ution to the pollution problem 
is to take control of the re
sources from these people i in
dustries i and put the control back 
in our own hands.'
Lynd also commented on the 
rehtorical nature of the Teach-In. 
claiming that the reason for in
dustrial support for the Teach-In 
was a result of the fact that no 
action was to be taken by the 
group.
A minor conflict arose upon 
the arrival of U. S. Senator Gay
lord Nelson of Wisconsin. Robin 
Maisel. Socialist Worker candi
date for U. S. Senator from 
Pennsylvania. questioned the 
right of Senator Nelson to inter
rupt the scheduled order of 
speakers. Maisel stated that his 
own time was of equal value to 
that of the Senator and suggest
ed that Nelson might wait. Since 
the press was waiting to inter
view the Senator in the lobby. 
Nelson agreed to speak after 
Maisel
Mr. Maisel suggested in his 
talk that. A social revolution 
will be necessary to clean up 
this environment. " He also pro
posed the nationalization of all . 
industries that pollute.
Senator Nelson also criticized 
current legislative inactivity in 
the area of pollution. Citing the 
ABM and the space program as 
areas of waste. Nelson criticiz
ed the current national priorities
as the leading obstacle to better 
environment.
"An appropriation of $40 to $50 
billion per year will be neces
sary to clean up and maintain 
high standards for our environ
ment." Nelson stated.
Senator Nelson was the first 
to suggest the nationwide En
vironmental Teach-In and cur
rently has an amendment to the 
Constitution pending which 
would guarantee all Americans 
the right to a clean and healthy 
environment. Nelson hopes that 
such an amendment would offer 
the basis for lawsuits against 
polluters.
A Phi o Announcements Scotch 'n' Soda Tickets Available
The deadline for accepting 
Kent D. Shaffer Memorial Scho
larship applications have been 
extended The award of $250 is 
given to a male undergraduate 
each year. Applications are avail
able at the Information Desk in 
Skibo Until Monday April 13. 
The Scholarship will be award
ed on April 19.
* * *
The spring semester Faculty 
Course Evaluation will be run 
this week. In addition to CIT. 
MMCC and H&SS where the 
FCE has been run in the past, 
the College of Fine Arts will 
also have an evaluation. A spe
cial questionaire. relevant to
Fine Arts type, courses, has been 
designed and will be distributed 
to the departments in Fine Arts 
earlv this week.
The income from the "tgly 
Man On Campus' contest run 
in conjunction with Spring Car
nival. will be given to the School 
Lunch Committee. The tunds will 
be used to help provide lunches 
for elementary school children 
in the eight poverty areas of 
Pittsburgh. The school to which 
the funds will probably go is the 
Larimer School in East Liberty, 
where area citizens are current
ly planning the program of serv
ing lunches.
Many of you have attended past Scotch n 
Soda performances without realizing exactly what 
the club is. Each year the club presents an ori
ginal musical written by students who work on the 
book, lyrics and music the summer before the 
show is presented All other aspects of the show 
are likewise handled entirely by students. They 
direct the show, arrange the orchestration, act. 
sing and dance in it. design and build the set. 
costumes and lighting, handle the business affairs 
and publicity. This gives those students who are 
not in the drama department <as well as some who 
are. howeven a chance to be part of theatrical en
deavor. The club is somewhat unique in that it 
brings together students from virtually every de
partment.
The club has been in existence since 1907 
with the exception of the war years. Past S'n'S
membership has included Frank Gorshin. Herb 
Gardner. Alex Segal. Barbara Feldon. Jerry Adler. 
Bob Finkel. Franklin Heller and Lawrence Carra. 
Two years ago BMI (Broadcast Music Incorporat
ed! awarded third place in their national Varsity 
Show competition to the Scotch n' Soda produc
tion That is the Question" That show, incidental
ly. was written by one of the co-authors of this 
year's show. David Spangler.
Something Personal " is a contemporary mu
sical dealing with the conflicts between the gen
erations and the problem of finding oneself. It 
teatures such songs as "The War Strangled Ban
ner" and America Is. America Was." This year 
mixed media and soft rock music have also been 
introduced to the show
Tickets are available daily in Baker Hall and 
Skibo and at the Skibo Information Desk.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 7, 1970THE TARTANPage 7
2ALMD lIbI kME 
y3 sPSEn lIPS
by Chuck Daly
One of the more ambitious projects of the Environmental TeachIn. the domes, located on the C-MU mall, fell victim to the environment 
early Thursday morning. The three major domes along with their con
trol dome were ravaged by gusting winds, with only the largest dome 
and the control dome surviving the attack.
The domes were constructed by the Carnegie Environment Center 
at a cost of approximately $2,000 and meant to show the synthesis of 
nature and technology. The first dome emphasized pollution such as is 
now found in our environment. The second showed the beauty of uncor
rupted nature. The third and only surviving environmental dome show
ed the synthesis of unspoiled nature with a sensible use of technolgy.
Carnegie Environment Center hopes to keep the dome open at its 
present location until the end of the current semester and to make it 
available to any group interested in conducting a seminar, etc. Inter
ested groups can contact the Center by writing Box 232. Campus Mail.
The Center also hopes to put on at least one more complete pro
gram during Spring Carnival Weekend, but'this is contingent upon ap
proval for the retention of the dome. George Morris, a representative 
of the group, assures that the program will be vastly improved and 
hopefully nature will be more agreeable.
IMPORTANT
Student Senate Meeting
Today, 4:30, Wherret Room
Discussion on: 
Students on Faculty 
Promotion Committees 
H&SS Student-Directed 
Education Proposal
If interested, Please attend Your Support is needed
Environment Pittsburgh Not Finished Yet
by Jon Arnold
It all began with a Walk for Life." and then exploded 
into deeply perceptive comment on our society and life 
styles. It was one of the largest and Pittsburghs first En
vironmental Teach-In. The massive program spanned 
four days, including speakers from all over the nation, 
from affiliations from Westinghouse to the Federal Gov
ernment to the Wilderness Society, and it hasn't yet end
ed yet.
I worked closely with the people behind the program 
and I saw all the co-ordinating and planning that went intp 
it. but even so I had by eyes opened by the program's out
come. I wrote a brochure for the Teach-In and I figured I 
had seen just about all there was in this pollution business. 
It took just a few minutes of listing to Phil Moore of the 
Organization to Make General Motors Socially Responsi
ble andAnd Scrivner of Duquesne University to show me 
that the pollution of the environment was not just air. wa
ter. earth, noise and thermal pollution, but also included, 
to borrow a term from the Resistance, moral pollution.
The population explosion, the wasting of our national 
resources, the mass killing of birds and animals with pes
ticides. the fouling of our air and water are all symptoms 
of a sick society. The same society permits an imperial
ist war in South Vietnam, that discriminates racially and 
sexually, puts big business and big profits over the im
portance of people and their rights and welfare, and is the 
society that forces people never to trust another person, 
to look out for oneself only. This is what the Teach-In was 
all about. We are fighting for our environment, for a de
cent place to livedecent both biologically and morally.
Many of the speakers knew this and they expressed it 
last weekend just as it should be. Staughton Lvnd (histori
an. Chicago). Milton Shapp (Gubernatorial candidate. 
Pennsylvania). Phil Moore. David Houston (Pitt, eco
nomics). and Dr. Buff (cardiologist) all tell us that the 
government and big business lie. that it is not in their in
terest to clean up the environment.
The corporate structure, with its money and lobbies, 
and all its other under-the-counter ties, rules the country. 
They decide who gets elected by putting money into cam
paigns. They decide what products are marketed. And 
they influence so many people that they can create their 
own markets. We cannot expect business to be moral.
Business is after profit. They will not act in the interests 
of others unless forced.
What can we do? Pelnty! That is why I say that En
vironment Pittsburgh is not ended yet.
We can organize together to elect the officials who 
will listen to what the people need. Gerald Kauman (Penn
sylvania State Representative) tells us to find out who 
is backing candidates election campaigns, and to put 
pressure on them to back moral, honest candidates. Mil
ton Shap advocated the Gulf Action Project tactics and 
many other speakers advocated any reasonable means of 
breaking the corporate power structure.
No. we will not forget Vietnam, or the draft, or Presi
dent Nixon. We will not allow them and their bunch of 
crooked politicians to drive a wedge between the stu
dent grous. Backing the drive against pollution is backing 
the Resistance. Women's Liberation. Anti-Racism and 
the Peace Movement. We are going to remedy the sick
ness of our society and give people a truely decent world 
to live in.
George Morris, spokesman tor Carnegie Environment Center, ponders irony ot natures strike.
Photo by Jerry Siskind

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8THE TARTANTuesday, April 7, 1970
OMEGA
DYNAMIC*
SELF-WINDING
WATCHES
Scientifically de
signed to fit your 
wrist, the unique 
oval shape of this 
stainless steel, wa
ter-resistant'case is 
absolutely comfort
able. Self-winding 
movement, sweep 
second hand, date 
of the month that 
changes automati
cally every mid
night. Fitted with 
sleek, color - coor
dinated interchange
able straps, vented 
for coolness. His, 
$115. Hers, $125.
G IMBEL'S
QOMEGA
iMECTj Publi she 
fiffliii idvryTav an F 
sEto-tC sa
fArtcr crCM ga9v ytTtAa7 tCM 
SCHOOL INFORMATION
0vJ0dcc0vcJ
Skf(F h'luhN
T9MrCT FrAryTdaC Frv:dyrc
Adr7rw uvtC7rJ stAdnJ ,1444
tCg aTErv ntyTc k CrrM Ta HCa5J
HOME INFORMATION
ltcT mt-r 'dvcT kCdTdtA Da-r hMMvrcc FTvrrT
mt-r an FyEaaA 
st-o9c hMMvrcc FTvrrT 
sdTg FTtTr .do
st-o9c fEaCr q p
hvrt saMr
xrtv dC FyEaaA hoovaOJ 6fh aC WJ) FytAr
sdTg FTtTr .do
Da-r fEaCr q p
hvrt saMr
(CTdA YdCna cEa9AM "r crCT Ta yt-o9c z Ea-r z toovaOJ MtTr
k tdCTrvrcTrM dC z 'tAA FovdC7 z R,
z k 5a9AM AdHr Ta TtAH Ta t vrovrcrCTtTd:r aT Publi sh0f(F h'luhN
Student Senate Summ.ats Resistance C.nfeaence
Environmental legislation
This is a list .f envia.nmental legislati.n left .vea fa.m 
the fiast sessi.n .f C.ngaess and still mending. It is n.t a c.m
mlete list but d.es sh.w the maj.a bills (and theia numbeas), 
the imm.atant c.mmittees, and the aaeas .f cuaaent C.ngaes
si.nal c.ncean.
AIR POLLUTION:
HR 12934 T. extend 3 m.ae yeaas the basic fedeaal aia 
m.lluti.n c.nta.l auth.aity.
Heaaings in H.use Inteastate and F.aeign C.m
meace C.mmittee Dec. 8 and 9, 1969.
S 3229 Aia Quality Imma.vement Act. T. incaease 
funding levels .f the Aia Quality Act, estab
lish an .ffice .f n.ise m.lluti.n, aeseaach and 
devel.m l.w emissi.n vehicles, and aegulate 
.missi.ns fa.m many s.uaces .f aia m.lluti.n.
Heaaings in Senate \ublic W.aks C.mmittee in 
Maach.
S 3072 Fedeaal M.t.a Vehicle \uachase Act. T. guaaHR 14534 antcc a fedeaal maaket f.a any l.w m.lluti.n
m.t.a vehicle.
Heaaings Jan. 27. 28. 29. 1970, in Senate C.m
meace C.mmittee.
Refeaaed t. H.use Inteastate and F.aeign C.m
meace C.mmittee: n. heaaings scheduled.
WATER POLLUTION:
S 7 Watea Quality Imma.vement Act. T. set liability
HR 4148 and guaaantee clean-um .f .il smills and t.
ma.hibit watea m.lluti.n by any fedeaal 
agency.
C.nfeaence C.mmittee meetings Feb. 3 and 4. 
1970.
HR 14845 T. amend the Fedeaal Watea \.lluti.n C.nta.l
S 2802 Act t. establish a nati.nal m.licy and ma.
gaam f.a the ma.tecti.n .f lands and wateas 
.f c.asts and estuaaies.
Heaaings in H.use \ublic W.aks C.mmittee 
Dec. 4. 1969.
Heaaings in Senate C.mmeace C.mmittee Dec.17.
HR 13247 T. establish a centaal agency f.a .ceanic and
S 2841 atm.smheaic ma.gaams.
HeaaingN c.mmleted in H.use Meachant Maaine 
and Fisheaies C.mmittee. Feb. 2.
Heaaings begun in Senate C.mmeace C.mmittee 
Dec. 17.
RESOURCE DEPLETION:
HR 12025 Nati.nal F.aest and Timbea C.nseavati.n Act.
S 1832 T. meamit m.ae c.mmeacial l.gging .f Na
ti.nal F.aests.
H.use Agaicultuae C.mmittee aem.ated HR 
12025 .n N.v. 18.
Heaaings in Senate Agaicultuae and F.aestay 
have been held.
S 719 Nati.nal Mining and Mineaals Act. T. incaease
d.mestic mineaals ma.ducti.n.
\assed Senate Semt. 5.
Heaaings in H.use Inteai.a and Insulaa Affaias 
C.mmittee N.v. 6 and 7.
POPULATION:
S 2701 T. establish a C.mmissi.n .n \.mulati.n
HR 15165 Ga.wth and the Ameaican Futuae.
Heaaings in H.use G.veanment Omeaati.ns 
C.mmittee .n Senate massed S 2701.
H.use G.veanment Omeaati.ns C.mmittee ae
m.ated HR 15165 Dec. 10.
H.use v.te .n Febauaay 17. 1970.
S 2108 T. exmand seavices and aeseaach .n family
HR 11551 mlanning.
Heaaings .n S 2108 in Senate Lab.a and \ublic 
Welfaae C.mmittee Dec. 8 and 9.
H.use Inteastate and F.aeign C.mmeace C.m
mittee will act aftea the Senate.
S 3219 Administaati.n bill t. exmand aeseaach and seav
ices .n family mlanning.
Heaaings in Senate Lab.a and \ublic Welfaae 
C.mmittee Dec. 8 and 9.
ed two items of the program, for 
what appeared to be political 
reasons, (i.e.. it was felt by the 
lobbyists that the items of the 
program on Anti-Corporate Or
ganizing Strategies, and on the 
Pittsburgh Gulf Action Project 
might be both embarrassing to 
and frowned upon, by several 
members of the Board of Trus
tees. and that this was the rea
son for their rejection of these 
items.) The discussion on Bur
gess's motion was carried on by 
three parties: Senators. David 
Greenburg, representing AAC. 
and Dean Swank, representing 
the administration. Mr. Green
berg's remarks centered around 
the fact that the program wrs 
entirely educational, and that 
freedom of speech was being 
impaired by the administration's 
action. Dean Swank stressed 
an apparent lack of organiza
tion of the Conference, and 
pointed out that the Conference 
had worked closely enough with, 
now properly informed the adminstration of the planning and 
composition of the program. Dis
cussion lasted almost an hour, 
and ended with the motion 
being passed (33-7-3).
Newly elected President Pat 
Cavanagh began his administra
tion on a firm footing with two 
motions, the first urging a Stu
dent Union committee to study
the incorporation of Student Gov
ernment along with obtaining facilitids to be under the auto
nomous control of SG." In a 
second motion, after noting some 
questionable features of the Uni
versity Budget, said:  ... We 
find it necessary, as the Student 
Government, to ask that the ad
ministration reallocate its funds 
so that the tuition of each and 
every student will only be ap
plied against the operating ex
penses of his own department 
i.e.. applied to his own educa
tion only. Both motions, being 
considered very important, were 
tabled for further discussion.$a 
As a followup to the Burgess 
motion, the reader should note 
that extensive meetings were 
held on Friday and Saturday be-- 
tween Mr. McCurdy. Dean 
Swank, and Dr. Kibbee. The 
final action taken was a rever
sal by the administration of its 
decision to deny the Conference 
space for two Sujnday Work
shops. All doubters of the effec
tiveness of Student Government
 how s that for action?
(Editor's Note: With additional
information brought forward 
Friday, Vice President Kibbee 
decided to reverse his former 
position and consent to the acti
vities of the Resistance planned 
for Sunday. )
World Campus Afloat is a college that does more than broaden horizons. It sails to them and beyond.
by VINCENT J. MISITANO JR.
Student Senate met for the 
first time in over three weeks 
last Thursday, and found a bush
el of items under new business, 
along with an over-enthusiastic 
pro-resistence lobby in the usu
ally empty audience. After tak
ing care of some minor election 
details and election of a new 
chairman (Congrats to Cary Scar
borough! ), the old senate retir
ed. and the newly elected senate
convened to one of the hottest 
items to face a Student Govern
ment in recent months. The al
ways illustrious Tom Burgess 
started the action with his mo
tion: "Whereas Student Senate 
has affirmed in the past its be
lief in free speech, we of Stu
dent Senate of C-MU accept 
that we must protect free speech 
and Academic freedom. For this 
reason, we declare Student Sen
ate of C-MU to be the sponsor of
the program originally schedul
ed for Sunday. Apr. 5. at C-MU 
by the April Action Conference. 
Student Senate shall reserve, in 
its name, the appropriate facili
ties.' As background material, 
the reader would wish to know 
that in the last meeting of sen
ate. a motion was passed sup
porting the Conference's pro
gram: Resistance todayAlter
natives Tomorrow ". In the in
terim. the Administration rejects.s. Ryndam is of Netherlands registry.
Again in the 1970-71 academic year, the 
accredited World Campus Afloat program of 
Chapman College and its associated Colleges 
and Universities wilftake qualified students, 
faculty and staff into the world laboratory.
Chapman College currently is accepting 
applications for both the fall and spring semesters. 
Preliminary applications also may be made for 
all future semesters.
Fall semesters depart New York aboard the 
s.s. Ryndam for port stops in the Mediterranean 
and Latin America, ending in Los Angeles. Spring 
semesters circle the world from Los Angeles, stop
ping in Asia and Africa and ending at New York.
For a catalog and other information, complete 
and mail the coupon below.
Youll be able to talk to a World Campus 
Afloat representative and former students:
 Saturday, April 25,2 p.m.
 Pittsburgh Hilton
 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
 Rivers D & E Rooms
Art student Leana Leach of Long Beach 
sketches ruins of once-buried city during 
World Campus Afloat visit to Pompeii.

---------------------------------------------------

Tuesday, April 7, 1970THE TARTANPage 9
Student Explains Philosophy Behind 
Freshman Stand On No Requirements
by John Wilson
(Editor's Note: About three
weeks ago, 14 HA 55 Freshmen en
tered Dean Steinberg's office dur
ing a meeting of the College Coun
cil. They demanded admittance to 
the closed Council meeting in order 
that they might read a series of de
mands they had drawn. These de
mands centered around the issue 
of elimination of college require
ment courses, the most pressing of 
many concerns with registration 
only a month away. Several ad
ministrators came out to speak with 
them after they sat down on the 
floor. They were denied entrance 
into the meeting as a whole group, 
but one student was allowed in to 
read the demands to the Council.
(The Council agreed to a public 
meeting the next day in which the 
issues would be discussed. Over
night, the HASS students botained 
60 signatures on a petition listing 
the demands. They pressed out 
copies of the petition at the public 
meeting, expecting a response to 
their proposals by the administra
tion. What followed was a philoso
phical debated mediated (many 
felt arbitrarily) by Steinberg. How
ever, he did promise that the peti
tion would be taken up at the next 
Council meeting. At that point, one 
of the two freshman members of 
the Council asked that other stu
dents (including those who had 
drawn up the petition) be allowed 
to attend that next Council meet
ing. Steinberg said that he could 
not make that decision but that it 
would be brought up as the first or
der of business.
(Accordingly, the day of the 
Council meeting about 16 students
NSAU0M,AYTLS -AL yMIU-PRM
Dear Beatrice,
\
I feel so alone. I have no friends. It's not because I 
don't like people, but I'm always afraid to get involved. 
My life seems empty. Can you tell me what to do?
Signed, Sad.
Dear Sad,
Something personal, but not so personal,
That it's impossible to share.
For what is personal may not be possible 
Unless you take the time to care.
For you have all your life so many empty days, 
But you've got the time, so take the time 
To fill them there's so many ways.
So if you're looking for a friend 
And you don't know where to go,
You can end your search,
By making friends with everyone you know.
Personally yours, Bea Gainsley.
WALLY S SHOES
3612 Forbes St. MU2-2928
Popular Prica-Famous Makes 
Man Women Casual and Dress Shoes
ORIGINAL HOT DOG SHOPPE
fbMth BPYYPAS ;AU 2AkD VAYEP
WITH THIS COUPON | x 
between the Hours of 3 p*m. and 3 a.m.
THREE HOT DOGS FOR $1.00 
Oft THREE STEAKBURGERS FOR $1.00 
. OR THREE FISH SANDWICHES FOR $1.00!
VALID UNTIL APRIL 5th 
 YOUR CHOICE a
OPEN 24 HOURS3901 FORBES AVE.
682-3731121 University Place
Basa want of the Physicians IvOdlng
OPEN Monday-Frlday, 9:00-5:00
wM-AJ ,AiPMD 5t/2t
TERM PAPERS
THESES
?
y/
MANUSCRIPTS
NOTEBOOKS
mm
,fo.uV 2f BNmu N 2.ulu6,uG
(Department Charge Accounts 
and Research Grants WELCOME)
showed up. They were again de
nied admission. The Council de
cided to postpone their decision and 
to instead set up a committee to 
create another meeting in which 
the philosophical issues would be 
discussed, this time mostly in small 
groups. As soon as possible (per
haps the next day) after this meet
ing, the Council will meet to make 
their decision.
(The following is one student's 
way of expressing what the stu
dent body of the New College feels 
is its position.)
* * *
It is important to view t h e 
H&SS requirements in the context 
of a broader philosophical dis
agreement between some mem
bers of the administration and 
virtually all of the students. It is 
not so much a question as to
BETA 
SIGMA 
RHO
Housewarming 
Party
April 11  8:00 p.m.
xvw
ERA EW 
GNIM0C
9.lCVG 9.lCVG
We want You! We need You!
2 Acting positions are avail
able in THE GROUP'S Spring 
Productionl No experience 
necessary  little memoriza
tion . . . Improvisation within 
script guideline.
Contact: IRA SMITH-6S2-607S 
Box 722106 Henderson
NOW
and/or come to rehearsal Wed., Apr. 
Bth, 9 p.m., Wherrett Room, Skibo.
SEX aid POT
Not really, but if 
you're interested in a 
full or part-time job 
that could be full time 
in the summer, and 
can work 3-11 in the 
evening at least three 
days a week, plus Sat
urday, call 683-3200. 
Ask for Student Per
sonnel Director.
PART-TIME$50 per week 
FULL-TIME$95 per week
whether college students are re
sponsible enough to direct their 
own education  everyone rec
ognizes that students have to 
make other decisions of equal im
portance to their lives  is rather, 
whether a college can define a 
standard program for students 
whose interests and educational 
backgrounds are as diverse as 
they characteristically must be 
in a school of humanities. It is 
even more basic than that  how 
can college administrators appro
priately define any program for 
students whose values and educa
tional goals are radically differ
ent from their own?
The proposed area require
ments are essentially no improve
ment over the existing plan. Al
though they represent an attempt 
to deal with diversity, that at
tempt does not recognize the un
derlying differences in priorities.
We are not here for the degrees 
as much as we are here for the ed
ucation. Our education is not so 
much a preparation for the future 
as it is a fulfillment of our lives 
in the present. It has to do with 
learning what we feel is appro
priate to ourselves. It is impor
tant to understand these differ
ences in philosophy before any 
agreement can be reached.
It becomes clear that any form 
of core requirements are a com
promise of our educational philo
sophy and are inappropriate to 
our needs.
See Page 3 for 
List of Demands
New Priorities Day
APRIL 15th
WHO PAYS? 
WHO PROFITS? 
Demand U.S. Out of 
Vietnam, Laos 
and Cambodia.
Typewriters 
and Adders
n
..............49.50
..............45.00
..............49.50
..............45.00
........25.00
THOUSANDS 
SOLD 
AT S79 NOW
*39.50
Tares Available
Pictured typewriter Is a full sited heo*y duty portable! It weight If/, 
pounds or more than twice the weight of midget Royal, Underwoodtween t end I pounds and sell In the J2S to 131 price range, lut told 
twtn f and I pounds and tell In the US to JJI price range. But told hy ut of Iff to $29.Compare With Regular Portables to *149.50
Display Models A 
SAVE UP TO
* 85.00 SCM ELECTRIC Portable...........
* 68.50 UNDERWOOD Lettin 32 .........
* 99.50 ROYAL SAFARI Portables.......
* 68.50 UNDERWOOD Studie 44...........
* 69.50 REMINGTON Noiseless Standard
McFarren 
15
MeFirrcn
ISHern
3000Ol.mpia8M-9l*Tl
CustomClassi
IS
Locked Segment Shift YttyesyesNoNo
Steel Construction ... YesNoTesNoNo
Overhead Paper lallYesyesYesNoyes
Carriage Loch........... YesYttyeaNoyaa
Standard Keyboard.,.. 3 atNoNoNoNo
Weight in Pounds ... l Val'/t101717
Mac's Price.............39.50#9.0079.0059.0079.50
FREE Customer 
Parlrng in theNone Sold To Dealers!
garage across 
the streetNoMail orPheneOrdert
bourns)McFARREN
 Repair Work Wanted 
Free Estimate
MACHINES
* Used Machines Wanted 
Hijk Trade-In or Cash
604 LIBERTY AVE., DOWNTOWN 
Open Daily 9:30 till S:30 Including Sat.
Monday and Thursday till 9281-7444

---------------------------------------------------

Page 10THE TARTANTuesday, April 7, 19/0 
$$Contempt" Emphasizes Reality of Life
by Sam McCook
Le Mepris or Comtempt, the
I'nited States title, is Godard's 
xith major work, done in 1963. 
Concerned with man's cowardice 
and prostitution. Godard empha
sizes the reality of life, producing 
a film of significant character in
teraction but little plot.
Le Mepris is a film of two days 
in the filming and production of 
the Odyssey, directed by Fritz 
Lang. The film is tightly structur
ed. being limited to the actual pro
gression ofthe events occuring 
within the two days. This is God
ard attempting to convince the 
audience that he is filming a real 
life situation 
His use of color has a new phil
osophy in this film, adding a new 
feeling of reality. Before Le Mep
ris, Godard was conscious of the 
dramatic effect of color on the 
film. In this film he looks for lo
cations rather than creating de
sirably colored backgrounds. 
Therefore. Le Mepris, filmed in 
natural settings, appears to be a 
film of real occurences.
The reality emphasis is neces
sary to the film. The Odyssey is a 
well known part of Greek myth
ology from the poet Homer. The 
main character. Ulysses, is a pris
oner of fate: the Greek gods con
trol the circumstance of his trav
els. Homer's theme is set in an un
believable fictionary story; God
ard wants his viewers to believe 
that the theme is part of life.
The action of the film is often 
interrupted by views of the Greek 
gods of war and ocean. Athena and 
Poseidon, turning slowly in a 
semi-circle as though they were 
looking at a horizon out of the film. 
The filming also includes a num
ber of long views of the sea. the 
sea meeting the sky in the dis
tance. These are significant 
scenes, giving an impression of 
awful fate caused by the filming 
of the Odyssey and an initial mon
ologue: "Our joys were turned to 
grief until the seas closed above 
us."
Paul Javal is a serious writer 
for theatre, prostituting his tal
ents to the will of an American 
producer. Jeremy Prokosch. To 
the consternation of his wife. Ca
mille. he accepts Prokosch's wish 
to rewrite the theme of the Odys
sey, changing Homer's theme of 
fate to an unhappy relationship 
between Ulysses and his wife. 
Penelope, who is now the reason 
for Ulysses' not coming home 
quickly. This manufactured theme 
is a discredit to Greek mythology 
and Homer's work, according to 
Fritz Lang, the director of the 
film, who finally convinces Paul 
that his attempt untrue.
Even though they are married. 
Paul and Camille's relationship is 
devoid of any mutual metaphysi
cal comprehension from the be
ginning of the film. In their initial 
scene, a nude Camille asks Paul 
is he loves her feet, ankles, knees, 
thighs, backsides, breasts, and 
face, finishing with the ultimate 
question: "Do you love me total
ly? " The emphasis is on the phy
sical and just act of asking these 
questions, wanting Paul to say 
that he loves her. shows that she 
is unconfident of his love for her 
and that she constricts her love 
for him to his expression of love 
for her. Their relationship is ob
viously doomed.
Camille looks for Paul to be a 
man; to control the circumstances 
shaping him during the two days.
but Paul fails her. She silently 
begs Paul to claim her as his wife 
rather than constantly giving her 
to Prokosch at his demand. Paul s 
unassertive surrenders cause her 
to doubt his love and eventually 
have "contempt'' for him. She 
also realizes that Paul is not writ
ing the script according to his own 
ideasthat he is prostituting his 
talent to Prokosch's superficial 
wishes and money.
Fritz Lang represents the film 
artists and abhor the prostituting 
peddlers of lies " in Hollywood 
and the wisdom of history. Lang's 
wisdom, though never offered as 
an answer to any of the problems 
in the film, is Godard's method of 
presenting the lessons of history 
to Paul. Paul's inability to recThe Holy Rollers are pleased 
to announce the addition of 
the 5610 Elmer Street lucky 
star DRUIDS to their 1970 
Carnival effort.
VALMU0PSk 
iM-DASIY 
RIS eM MJRPUPSk 
pppISE 
DT-i-PDPSk G
Eng. Dept. SAC 
Meeting Thurs. 
April 9, 1:30 p.m.
Everyone Is Getting The 70 Bug From:M.W.MOTORS
Authorized Volkswagen Dealer 
731 BUTLER STREET ST-1-5671-HU-6-1810 ETNA, PENNSYLVANIA
ognize that he is a captive of cir
cumstances is dramatized by 
Lang's presence. Irony is present 
in their conversations, in which 
Paul describes Ulysses and Pen
elope's marriage with the same 
decadence as his own. never real
izing that he is.
Jeremy Prokosch is Godard's 
put-on of a producer and an Amer
ican. He is the man in command 
of Paul and Lang. He takes Paul's 
wife and talents easilyp but to im
press Lang, he acts like a child, 
throwing film tins around a studio. 
Godard's characterization of film 
producers and Americans is that 
of conceited and rich child-like 
men.' ^^rokosch's manly proses 
are acCQinpaned by his recitations 
from his tinv red book of proverbs.
Francesca is Prokosch's trans
lator. Her presence demonstrates
the failures of language as total 
communication.
The essence of Godard s film is 
the film within the film : the storv 
within the story. The tragedy is 
Paul's inability to learn from 
Ulysses' story that which he
needs to know for his own life. His 
constant attempts to say the
"right tuing " and to understand 
his wife' . contempt come after he 
damages their relationship. He
tries to ratch up; he worries about 
the past so much that he cannot 
see his * mission to the present.
God.ik, style and content are 
the same in this film. The rela
tionship of tie two stories, which 
is a stylistic "echnique of Godard, 
demonstrates effectively Paul's 
failures and gives the film a real
ity much greater than the inner 
story of the Odyssey.
G IM BEL'S
NIGHT POWER
The crepe jump
Flirty, feminine knif< 
pleating swirling 
around the social 
whirl. A smash
ing way to look 
as hostess or 
guest in deep 
purple rayon 
acetate crepe 
trimmed 
in white.
Sizes 5-13. $52
In The Next Few Years, Therell 
Be 100 Million Cars 
On the Road.
But Therell Always Be 
Room For a VW.
VISIT THE...
TARTAN COFFEEHOUSE
ubM-3 VIUT-EI3 6PUMc 
PS U0M 1I-UIS 9-PYY
8:30 p.m. till 1:00 a.m.
6A NELPDDPAS ,0I-kMn -MM ,AccMMG
Sponsored by 
ACTIVITIES BOARD 
& MEN'S DORM COUNCIL
(MOVING TO OAKLAND AREA SOON)

---------------------------------------------------

Photography Exhibit Planned 
At Three Rivers Arts Festival
Tuesday, April 7, 1970THE TARTANPage 11
tries. All mail deliveries must 
be addressed to: Three Rivers 
Arts Festival. Carnegie Insti
tute. 4400 Forbes Avenue. Pitts
burgh. Pa. 15213. and must be 
post marked not later than April 
28. 1970.
. .The juror will be Frank Zach
ary. freelance photographer and 
former art director of Holiday 
Magazine. He is also a publish
er's consultant for Merit Publish
ing Company, the United Na
tions. and Better Homes and Gar
dens. He has won a gold medal 
from the New York Society of 
Illustrators. He was also an edi
tor of the Pittsburgh Bulletin 
Index. The juror will select one 
print to be awarded a $100.00 
prize, by the Three Rivers Arts 
Festival.
Entry forms will be available 
at area photographic stores or 
may be obtained by sending a 
self-addressed, stamped number 
10 business envelope to: Three 
Rivers Arts Festival, 1251 N. 
Negley Avenue, Pittsburgh. Pa. 
15206.'
The Three Rivers Arts Festi
val to be held May 29 to June 7 
at Gateway Center in Pitts
burgh will have a Photography 
Exhibit this year. The competi
tion. according to the Festival's 
executive committee, will be 
open to all amateur and profes
sional photographers who live 
within a 110 mile radius of 
Pittsburgh. There is no restric
tion on subject matter, interpre
tation. or technical limitations 
in the production of a print.
Photographs must have been tak
en within the past two years and 
not previously exhibited at the 
Festival. Monochrome or color 
prints, singly or in series, not 
exceeding a total of three prints 
will be accepted. Transparen
cies will not be accepted.
Entry dates are as follows: 
hand deliveries will be accepted 
in the Green Room of Carnegie 
Institute. 4400 Forbes Avenue.
Pittsburgh, Pa., on Friday. May 1 
and Saturday. May 2 from 10 
A.M. to 4 P.M. Residents of Alle
gheny County are urged to hand 
deliver and pick up their enAlumni Ass.ciati.n Sm.ns.as 
Caaeea Omm.atunities Seminaa
Again this year the Alumni Association of C-MU is sponsoring 
a Careers Seminar on Saturday morning. April 11, from 10:00 a.m. 
to 12:00 noon. Individual sessions will be held in various rooms, 
nooks and crannies of Skibo according to the various disciplines 
taught at C-MU. This program has been established to give sopho
mores the opportunity to question alumni in a particular discipline 
about career goals and opportunities available in that field. The 
program is run on a very informal basis and students may come and 
go as they please. All sophomore students are encouraged to attend. 
For additional information please contact the Alumni Office, Warn
er Hall 501.
Spring Carnival Expanded
at 8:30 P.M. (traditionally the 
final performance of Scotch n' 
Soda), or Friday. April 17th at 
9:45 (after the concert) or Sat
urday. April 18th at 7:00 tbe
fore the dance).
If. however, you have planned 
on spending the weekend more 
leisurely, see one of our many 
other performances: Opening
Previews on April 11 and 12
This year for the first time. 
Scotch n" Soda is becoming a 
completely integrated part of 
Spring Carnival! Make ' Some
thing Personal'' part of your 
weekend, by attending a perfor
mance on Thursdav. April 16th
\iXVVt
CLAIROL KINDNESS KIT 
SETS HAIR IN 10 MINUTES
17.60 regularly 21.88
Simple to use . . . just roll-up liair, 10 
minute later eoiiil>-out curl*. No water, 
no lotion, no waiting for hair to dry. 
20 heat-up rollers.
GIMEH/S
and after.
by VANI M EE U S EE N
Unchain your brain! Unbind the old bean! 
Now youre ready for the fashion freedom of 
Van Heusen Hampshire House shirts. They're 
the ones with big bold action stripes, deep 
and daring solid colors, and new wider spread 
Bradley collar, plus permanently pressed 
Vanopress to end ironing hang ups forever. 
Join the freed breed, man, and come on 
over to Hampshire House.

---------------------------------------------------

Cl
APRIL 10, II, 12

)

PROGRAM
sponsored by 
Activities 
Board
