CMU continues to be blessed with frigid weather
TARTAN
January 25, 1977 Volume 77, Number 14 Carnegie-Mellon University Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213
CMU Heating SNAFU
by Gary R. Fabian
Although the cold weather of last week 
did not force CMU to shut down,the uni
versity does have problems with its heating. 
CMU gets its heat from the Bellefield Boiler 
plant.
The plant, according to Bill Dillon, Di
rector of Auxiliary Services, can run on 
coal, oil, or gas, and it is having trouble 
getting any of these. Also, Dillon com
mented, the boiler plant can not cope with 
the normal heat usage cycle; that is, every
one gets up in the morning and turns up 
the heat and then at night they turn it 
down. So in an attempt to help alleviate 
this problem CMU has altered its cycle to 
drastically turning the heat up at night and 
then down or off during the day. This, Dil
lon said, has the added advantage of keep
ing the pipes from freezing in the buildings.
This solution to the heating problem on
ly applies to all the buildings on the southside of Forbes Ave. Because, Dillon 
pointed out, everything else runs off the 
Morewood Boilers (three of them) which 
are50 yearsold. These boilers are running at 
full capacity but they cannot meet the de
mand for steam. Dillon said, There are 
definite plans to replace the boilers in 
Morewood this summer. Also to replace 
the traps in the radiators. There are bids 
out on the later project already.
Dillon stressed that if any student is
having trouble with heat, it should be re
ported. Students may do so by calling Belle 
McKissock at x502. The situation cannot 
improve said Dillion, until the weather 
changes. All we can do is wait.
Athletic Board 
Established
by Jeffrey Freed
President Richard Cyert has authorized 
the establishment of an Athletic Advisory 
Board, which will meet for the first time 
this week. The Boards duties will be to:
1.) Assist President Cyert and James 
Banner, the Director of Athletics, in the 
planning and policy-making of the athletic 
program, and
2.) Study the various interactions of 
the Athletic Program with other depart
ments.
The Board will have an academic chair
man, some women members, and will be 
staffed bv three faculty members, three 
alumni, and five students  three men and 
two women. To insure continuity of 
leadership, board members' terms will 
rotate. James Banner (Athletics), Earle 
Swank (Student Affairs), and Walter 
Cathie (Financial Aid) will serve on the 
Board ex officio. Not all Board members 
have been chosen yet.
Webster Hall Rented for Housing
by Mary Ann Lawton
Auxiliary Services has contracted with 
the Webster Hall Hotel to use its fifth floor 
as university residences for the 1977-78 
v academic year.
Approximately 60 rooms of various 
types will be available for room draw, held 
this semester for next year. 33 to 50% of 
the rooms are singles while the rest are for 
the most part doubles or adjoining doubles 
with one or two triples available. The
rooms will be carpeted and have private 
baths (adjoining doubles will have one bath 
between them), and a majority will have 
new dormitory style furniture.
The cost of the rooms will be in accor
dance with the room category they fit into 
and thus will cost no more than other uni
versity housing of the same type. The 
rooms will be available for inspection 
during the room draw period. Webster Hall 
is about a 10 minute walk from CMU but 
Auxiliary Service Director Bill Dillon feels
that students wont mind the distance from 
campus if they like the accommodations. 
Since more biology and chemistry classes 
are being held in Mellon Institute now, 
housing is hoping that students in these 
departments will take advantage of the 
new accommodations.
One of the restrictions placed on the 
rooms by the hotel is that there will be 
absolutely no cooking allowed in them. 
If the university does decide to install 
the student Centrex System in the dormi
tories, Webster Hall will be among the first 
to have them instated. Currently the 
agreement with the hotel is for only one 
year, and it is doubtful that it will be re
newed.
In an effort to alleviate any further 
problems with residence shortages, Housing 
is considering building a new dormitory 
between McGill Hall and the Roselawn 
houses. Dillon believes that the new dorm 
has to be built by the fall of 1978 in order 
continued on page 8
Dillon Proposes $75 Housing Hike
Auxiliary Services tentatively plans to 
increase all room rates by $75 next year, 
pending final review by the Auxiliary 
Services Board. The money will be used to 
pay for overhead costs, future renovations, 
and utility increases. If Centrex is installed, 
additional increases may be needed.
 The university has always paid for all 
the overhead costs of Auxiliary Services. 
Now two percent of the gross income of 
Auxiliary Services will pay for such things 
as the use of the Personnel Office, mail 
sorting and accounting services. According 
to Bill Dillon, Head of Auxiliary Services, 
this new practice will be merely an exten
sion of the universitys policy that those 
who use special services should pay for
* them, rather than the general CMU com
munity.
When questioned about the basis for 
the two percent figure, Dillon said, It 
was arbitrary. I may be defending a three 
or four percent figure next year..
The future renovation fund, or capital 
amortization budget, will remain high next
year. Last year $125,000 was budgeted for 
this, but this year it was increased to 
$421,000 and will remain the same for 
next year. Replacing the boiler system in 
Morewood Gardens alone will cost about 
$300,000. The system is in such bad 
condition that three companies have 
refused to repair it.
Dillon indicated that current residents 
will see improvements in the dorm system. 
At the Student Senate meeting on Thurs
day, January 20, he explained the priori
tized renovation plans that will be fol
lowed from now on. The university has 
determined that roof repairs are the most 
important because of the extensive damage 
leaky roofs can cause to building^. Next are 
masonry repair and window replacement, 
which will also ensure that buildings are 
protected from the outside. Heating, 
plumbing, and electrical renovations follow 
in that order. Dillon said that the electrical 
work receives a low priority because as 
long as you have good circuit breakers, 
there wont be any real problem.
There are numerous plumbing problems 
in the Hill dorms and at Morewood. Dillon 
pointed out one instance where the drain
age system of one of the Hill dorms needed 
emergency repairs that entailed tearing up 
walls and floors in the middle of the 
semester.
The maintenance office has been getting 
a large number of requests from Morewood 
residents to unclog pipes. Dillon attributes 
the problem to people pouring pickles 
and grease down the drain. Because the 
pipes are so old, this causes serious prob
lems.
Acid cleaners will dissolve the copper 
pipes if used frequently for unclogging.
To alleviate this, maintenance men have 
been unclogging pipes by forcing air down 
them. However, in many cases this causes 
the pipes to explode. Dillon feels that the 
solution to this problem is to force all 0 
Morewood residents to be on food coni 
tract. 
Auxiliary services is currently consiBill Dillon, "The 2 percent figure was arbitrary."
continued on page 7 _____________________________________

---------------------------------------------------

TARTAN
The Skin of Our Teeth
Student Organizations at CMU are slowly foundering, 
victims of benign neglect. With few exceptions, survival 
tends to be a shaky proposition at best. For all that the 
various organizations have to offer, more support should be 
given.
The services provided by student organizations contri
bute greatly towards making the University a much livelier 
place. There are me vies and other entertainments provided 
by the Activities Board and Student Dorm Council; there is a 
radio station, a newspaper, and a wide range of special inter
est groups ranging from flying to karate. Without these 
things, existence at CMU would be much more grim.
Looking at all thats provided for the price of the Stu
dent Activities Fee and/or the Dorm Residents Fee (SDCs 
money source), there is quite a bargain being offered. The 
hard economics of why the Activities Fee is such a good 
value is all the cheap labor involved. A few committed indi
viduals give many hours of their time for free.
Just what inducements are there to become involved? 
Participation in extracurricular activities does enhance a 
resume, but is that worth ali the grief required? For many 
people, especially those intending to pursue graduate studies, 
such extracurricular activities are of no help at all. The result 
is that a large segment of the student population who could 
contribute greatly to the campus community make the quite 
understandable choice, not to do so.
In all too many cases, people reluctantly take on tasks 
in student organizations only because they see that if they 
dont do the work, then the work wont be done. Organiza
tion elections tend to be crisis situations, with frantic 
searches for people who can be talked into accepting respon
sibilities. The result is usually a transfer of power under very 
undemocratic if not down right corrupt circumstances. This 
selection by desperation does not lead to having better 
quality leadership.
The University administration works very hard at being 
supportive of organizations while at the same time avoiding 
interference in the governance of such organizations. A very 
fine line to tread indeed. The Student Activities Department 
has provided some excellent training seminars for student 
leaders. But the real problem is a lack of people interested in 
taking on leadership positions.
Back in 1974, Student Senate did consider a proposal 
for providing more incentive for working on extracurricular 
activities. Under this plan, the Chairman of Student Senate, 
the General Manager of WRCT, the Editor-in-Chief of the 
TARTAN and Student Senate Committee Chairmen among 
others were to be paid for their services. This idea was seri
ously looked at and came dose to being adopted. Some
thing like this is essential if the situation outlined above 
is to be remedied. Otherwise, student organizations will con
tinue to struggle along at their present level of mediocrity.
Another proposal that has been occasionally suggested 
is the granting of academic credit for extracurricular work. 
To a very limited extent this is already happening. But in all 
cases it is only happening where the work being done is di
rectly related to an academic field of study.
However in both the money and the academic credit 
schemes there is serious potential for abuse. Who is to decide 
how much money or how much credit a given job deserves or 
whether an individual is adequately doing the job for the 
remuneration he is receiving? One of the strongest points of 
the present system is the great freedom that student 
organizations have. Any remuneration plan would h^ve to be 
carefully planned to avoid endangering this freedom. Possi
bly having some organizations fail may be the price that has 
to be paid to avoid outside interference with organizations.
Such issues need to be considered. Student Senate, with 
the purse strings they control, could be the proper forum for 
this. But until such considerations begin to take place it may 
be necessary for those involved in student organizations to 
become much more militant.
Charles Mitch 
Editor
ERRATUM
In an article on the new Engineering and Public Policy Department, 
in the January 18, 1977 issue, the TARTAN mistakenly referred to 
to undergraduate program as being called Engineering and Public 
Affairs. The proper name for the entire department, both under,n duate and graduate.is Engineering and Public Policy.
ogasfta x b0o0^o^o'o o oc<y0 
 a  o o o o? I %<> QO /
? 0 e b0o^ e <SҰc3 co  tfVo Vo2<5'V Ih O ouo O. 0*0 Of'fjo O^o 0 0<\0
y I o 0 c e?o " *2$ O
Jf&oSttocIe o <J 
&00, 
oY o
o$2C 
%?oog.ao Oe fi O. O  o o
D  6 g *1*0
22ooo^o0O.. aO o  0  0 &V? $ao 0 S
O Q
o o o 
V0D  c o  
600, /efeaol %%
.8 o Jo/s%aoa
te?/o*ooW<?o
,p-W0'cqVe
l%o0
Letters
Virtues of AMS 
Editor:
Much has been written recently 
regarding the virtues of the AMS 
department. It is a topic that not 
only arouses the interests of many 
people, but directly affects a great 
many students. Consequently, 
some of what has been printed in 
the TARTAN has been overstated; 
some statements have been accu
rate, some have been wholly falsi
fied. It is therefore the purpose 
herein to speak as objectively as 
possible about the AMS depart
ment.
There are a number of dimen
sions along which any academic 
department can be evaluated. 
Such an evaluation will deal with 
the quality of faculty research, 
capabilities, and post-graduation 
marketability of the students. 
The latter two concern the stu
dents directly.
The most commonly accepted 
measure of quality of faculty is
the academic degree that they 
have obtained. The actual num
bers are left for somebody with 
access to the data, but at least 
half of the department sponsored 
courses are taught by Ph.D. stu
dents. Moreover, many of the 
teachers who do have a Ph.D. have 
only been awarded that degree 
recently. These people do not 
have 1) teaching experience 2) as 
much time to devote to their 
courses as full-time professors and 
3) significant real-world experi
ence required, to provide the prac
tical dimension of the subject 
being taught. Furthermore, many 
instructors have both language 
and cultural barriers constraining 
their rapport with the class. Gen
erally, the AMS staff is less quali
fied and less motivated compared 
to many CMU academic depart
ments.
I do not mean to be ignorant 
of the fact that there are several 
well-qualified faculty members. 
However, they are unfortunately 
the exception as opposed to the 
rule
In an interview with Tom Kerr, 
the departmental head, a brief 
defense of the faculty situation 
was presented by the TARTAN. 
It was stated that the Ph.D. student-teachers underwent a train
ing seminar, were monitored by a 
professor, and were told exactly 
what to cover in the course. It 
is for people with more time than 
I to pursue investigation as to 
what degree these teaching aids 
are used. My experience leads me 
to believe with confidence that 
these teaching aids are very cur
sory in nature -- fulfilling a formal 
purpose more than anything else. 
Hopefully the TARTAN staff can 
investigate (this). It was also 
stated in the article that teaching 
is a requirement for a Ph.D. in 
business today. According to 
Ph.D. program requirements from 
the top three Business schools in 
the country (Stanford, Chicago, 
and Harvard) teaching is not a 
Ph.D. requirement. It could very 
well be a good idea since many 
Ph.D. holders go on to teach, but 
the AMS students should not have
TARTAN
Volume 77January 25, 1977Number 14
Editor in Chief: 
Managing Editor: 
Business Manager: 
News Editor. 
Entertainment Editor: 
Folio Editor: 
Sports Editor: 
Photography Editor:
Charles Mitch 
Jim Harper 
Joe Loughran 
Joan Konkle 
Randell Hunt 
David Roussos 
Tom Binnie 
Elliot Popowitz
Assistant News Editor: Eric Petersen 
Editorial Assistant: C.R. Childs
Production Assistants: Claudia Clay, Carol Dieter, Clare Nadorlik
Staff Photographers: Michael Bergman, Skip Brzelton, Rajah Chacko, Bob Cziryak, Tim Fabian, Michael Fryd, 
Chris Heck, Courtney Larson, V.R,V, Ramanan, Ken Ream, Chris Roussi, Fred Shamlian, Susanne Wilson
Copyright 1976 by the Carnegie -Mellon University TART AN. The Editorial Board reserves the right to edit or 
withhold from publication any copy it deems unfit for publication. Funded in part by the Student Govern
ment of Carnegie -Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213. Editorial Offices: Skibo50; (412) 621- 
2600 ext. 656 or 481. Business Offices: Skibo 52; (412) 682-4557.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
> nY> -jifji V,cy V'ftj * f/1 ) Y Vi I r * t

---------------------------------------------------

VIEWS
Why College Bores and Depresses
by Steven Muller
Our main business is research 
and teaching, which we regard as 
twin parts of one whole, not as 
two separate functions. Faculty 
and students share in that genera
tion of knowledge which is la
beled research. Teaching is in 
large measure the process of pre
paring students to share in re
search and other advanced work. 
We can and do assume that both 
research and teaching at Johns 
Hopkins will continue to function 
at a very high level of quality.
The other side of the coin from 
teaching, however, is learning; and 
an assessment of learning at the 
university and other institutions 
of higher education is not com
forting. How can this be so? Let 
us begin our effort to understand 
with the undergraduate student 
body. Our undergraduates are 
attractive men and women  
intelligent, alert and full of high 
hopes when they come to us. But 
as their academic work unfolds, 
many students complain about 
teaching at the university. One 
can discount these complaints 
considerably. Everyone com
plains about something; obviously 
students will enjoy some profes
sors more than others; and it is 
true that some teaching is done by 
graduate students (but most of 
them perform conscientiously and 
capably).
The fact remains that after sub
stantial discounting, the level of 
discontent with teaching remains 
disturbingly high. And this is 
even more true at other colleges 
and universities.
I have come to realize that the 
undergraduates are really far
more distressed about what they 
are learning than about the
teaching competence of the fa
culty. A minority of undergradu
ates who are truly interested in 
learning find the curriculum
confmingly narrow arid frustratingly specialized. The 'great 
majority of undergraduates, on 
the other hand, are not really at a 
college or university to learn at 
all, have no real conception of 
what learning is, and suffer under 
demoralizing pressures that have 
little to do with learning.
Good heavens, you think, 
he cannot really mean that. If 
the students are not there to 
learn, then why on earth are they 
there at all? Thata bit of se
mantics and exaggeration aside 
is just the point. Most of our 
undergraduates are with us to 
qualify for something else, be it 
graduate or professional training 
or a job. They do (and you may) 
call that qualification process 
learning, but this view fails 
completely to distinguish between 
a preparation process on the one 
hand and a real desire for know
ledge on the other. I realize how 
vague that sounds, so let me try to 
make it clearer.
Most undergraduates are obses
sively preoccupied with compiling 
a record that will serve to get 
them into postbaccalaureate edu
cation or into a job. What that 
means, First of all, is taking a great 
many that are required for one 
reason or another, and getting 
excellent grades. The emphasis is 
on having a certain course on 
ones record and on the grade 
received rather than on whatever 
may actually be learned. Beyond 
that, students perceive correctly 
that there is little direct relation
ship between the detail that must 
be mastered in many required 
courses and the substantive know
ledge they will need at later stages 
in their lives.
I have no desire to belabor pre
medical education, but it illus
trates many of these circum
stances well and preoccupies 
many undergraduates. For exam
ple, the practicing physician is 
not usually deeply engaged in the 
intricacies of chemistry; yet the 
aspiring premedical student be
lieves he must take organic che
mistry and do exceptionally well 
with it to qualify for admission 
to medical school. There, in turn, 
he must take more biochemistry 
in the pre-clinical years than he 
will probably ever use in practice. 
My only purpose in reciting this 
familiar circumstance is that the 
whole procedure has very little 
to do with any genuine interest 
on the part of the student in 
learning chemistry.
One point that can be made, 
then, is that most undergraduates 
in effect write off their under
graduate years in terms of intrin
sic value. These are not real 
years. Their value is seen to lie 
mostly in what follows them, not 
in what they themselves contain. 
Stated simply, they are not re
garded as years of learning but as 
years of effort to qualify for 
something else; and learning and 
trying to qualify can be two en
tirely different things.
Our society tends to treat 
knowledge as a commodity whose 
value depends on its utility, rather 
than treating knowledge as an end 
or good in itself. The question we 
ask most about knowledge is what 
good it does  how useful it is. 
I would not argue that knowlege 
should be useless or that its social 
applicability is irrelevant, but 
there is more to knowledge and 
the learning of it than explicitly 
perceived social utility.
Let us translate this to the 
undergraduates. If they say they 
want to attend a university to 
learn for the sake of learning, 
their families are apt to regard 
that as frivolous. Yet if they say 
their purpose is to become doc
tors or lawyers, their families are 
pleased because utility is per
ceived in the sacrifices entailed. 
But:
How surely can a person at 18 
or so know what he or she will do 
as an adult, is best qualified to do, 
or wishes to do?
If the knowledge worth 
learning is confined to what ismore Letters
to be disadvantaged because of it!
It was also mentioned in the 
article that AMS students enjoy a 
starting salary of $14,000 as an 
average. While it is very questiona
ble if this figure is accurate, it 
nevertheless is a classic misappli
cation of data! I may be slightly 
off, but approximately 6 of 33 
students in last years graduating 
class even got degree-related jobs. 
The economic environment for 
business students today is very 
good. Moreover, the curriculum of 
AMS provides training that rivals 
many graduate business schools. 
The point then is that while AMS 
majors should by all rights be fair
ly marketable, they just arent!
This phenomenon is attributa
ble to some degree to each of the 
following realities: First, one big 
opportunity in any higher educa
tion environment is to provide 
the student with an understanding 
of what employment in various 
fields is really like. The students 
cannot derive this benefit as 
many faculty members are simply
not able to provide this under
standing. Consequently, many stu
dents simply dont really know 
what they wai.t to do. Second, 
the CMU Placement Office is not 
performing their responsibility of 
marketing AMS majors. In fact, 
Doug Mintmeir, the GS1A Place
ments Director, has been giving 
some of his free time to consult 
AMS majors. Campus interviews
 are few in number. The depart
ment is simply not getting the ex
posure that the quality curriculum 
deserves.
From a cost-benefit perspec
tive, the AMS students are paying 
just as much to attend CMU as 
other undergraduates. They unfor
tunately are not paying for as 
much.
AMS seems to now be techni
cally a part of GSIA. The graduate 
school collects their own revenues 
independent of the rest of the 
university and covers their own 
costs. If there is an average of 40 
students in each AMS class, then 
there are 160 AMS students at
tending CMU each year. This
amounts to approximately 
$500,000 in tuition revenues. 
Even though there are departmen
tal costs in addition to faculty 
expenses, it seems absurd to think 
that the department cannot sup
port a more qualified faculty 
staff!
I do not mean to imply that 
the AMS department is the most 
troubled on campus. Yet it is 
accurate to say that by many dif
ferent criteria, AMS students are 
simply not being dealt with equi
tably. It is the responsibility of 
the students, the administration 
and the TARTAN to investigate* 
the problems, not present only 
peoples viewpoints. I hope that 
this letter has put us all on that 
road.
Name Withheld
The TARTAN welcomes letters 
from its readers. All letters for 
publication must be signed. 
Names will be withheld upon re
quest.
essential to the pursuit of one 
career, then is not learning not 
awfully narrow, inflexible with 
respect to career alternatives, 
and only a means to an end?
Is there truly nothing of value 
in a lively, well-trained rmnd that 
has at its disposal a rich and varied 
store of learning; and if there is, 
does not its cultivation demand a 
less brutally utilitarian conception 
than our society acknowledges?
When four undergraduate years 
are perceived primarily as an eco
nomic investment, what impact 
does that have on the same four 
years in human emotional terms?
This final question brings us to 
the next point. Many undergradu
ates are depressed emotionally, 
although most of them, happily, 
are not clinically ill. Look at their 
dilemma. On the one hand they 
are bored. Their interest in 
learning has been eroded by their 
overwhelming ned to qualify for 
something else, and they have sub
ordinated whatever potential 
interest they may have had in a 
subject to receiving the highest 
possible grade for it. They study 
not to leam but to be tested. 
They regard testing not as an 
internalized process that chal
lenges them to do their best but as 
an external competition for grades 
that pits them against each other.
On the other hand, require
ments are onerous and the compe
tition intense. Social pressures 
have removed the incentive to 
leam as well as the intellectual joy 
of learning, so a type of schizo
phrenic behavior results. For re
creation and relief, these exceed
ingly bright, gifted, yet hardpressed young people turn not to 
any pleasures of the intellect but 
mostly to frantic, mindless, pri
marily physical diversion. The 
cynic, of course, may regard this 
as socially useful because it initi
ates students into an adult Ameri
can world in which a sharp and 
unhealthy distinction persists be
tween work and pleasure  a 
world in which extreme utili
tarianism has driven pleasure out 
of work and sensible purpose out 
of pleasure.
We can now return to where 
our reflections began. When many 
undergraduates complain about 
teaching, most of them are really 
saying that they have no funda
mental motivation to leam, that 
most of the courses they feel com
pelled to take bore them, and that 
their mutual competition for high 
grades is too intense to be toler
able. That is not directly an 
indictment of teaching. How can 
one expect any but the most 
gifted professors to inspire their 
students under these conditions? 
Professors do well if they make 
the necessary more endurable. 
It is surprising that so many man
age to break through to their 
students, not that it often fails 
to happen.
As for those students who 
really come to the university to 
learn, they find their opportuni
ties undercut by the prevailing 
countertrends. Perhaps the sad
dest commentary on undergradu
ate education is student resent
ment against someone who gets a 
good grade and doesnt need
it  for qualification later, of 
course.
I want to share these reflec
tions with you because they raise 
issues of such great consequence 
for higher education. The tenden
cy today in universities and col
leges is to become even more ex
plicitly prevocational. The obvi
ousyet in my view, disastrous 
response of higher education to 
the problems raised by ever-rising 
costs is to dismiss learning as a 
frivolous luxury and to focus on 
what is considered socially useful 
in the most immediate sense. That 
turns out inevitably to be explicit, 
narrow, prevocational education.
Undergraduate students in par
ticular have been increasingly un
happy with the consequences, but 
until recently the real and pro
found nature of their discontent 
was so intertwined with the pro
test movements involving civil 
rights and Vietnam as to be indis
tinguishable. Regrettably,
students today appear to be even 
more unhappy in greater numbers 
than before, but because they are 
quieter and more orderly they no 
longer get much attention.
Obviously, It>elieve that Amer
ican higher education ought to re
emphasize the value of learning 
for its own sake. The case is not 
hard to make. We do need prevo
cational education, but the best 
pre ocational foundation is still a 
broad base of learning combined 
with a limited amount of speci
alization. In vocational terms, the 
broad base of learning helps to 
produce professionals with a use
fully wider perspective. It also 
takes into account how quickly 
specialized knowledge becomes 
dated. And it will constitute an 
intellectual foundation on which 
continuing education can be built 
for a lifetime.
Far more important and funda
mental, renewed emphasis on 
learning for its own sake will re
sult in happier students and a 
more agreeable society. What is 
missing increasingly on campuses 
and throughout American life is 
the intellect at play, the joy of 
learning not for economic gain 
but for relaxation, the inte
grated personality whose learned 
knowledge serves both vocation 
and leisure. The most devasta
ting weakness of a society so utili
tarian that it cherishes only eco
nomic goods is its inability to 
accept pleasure. Some of the 
best that life has to offer is eco
nomically nonproductive.
No human society can sustain 
itself on the basis of work alone, 
but the utilitarian imperative nur
tures the concept of leisure as 
escape from work. It also fosters a 
split personality that must take 
economic productivity seriously 
while either dismissing pleasure 
and leisure as trivial, or demean
ing them as only fostering pro
ductivity or imitating it.
Steven Muller is president of 
The Johns Hopkins University, 
and chairman of the National 
Association of Independent 
Colleges and Universities. This is 
from his recent Johns Hopkin 
annual report. Reprinted from the 
Washington Star.

---------------------------------------------------

ANNOUNCEMENTS.CLASSIFIED ADS
DEADLINE: NOON WEDNESDAY!
Classified rate: $1.00 for every 15 words. 
Announcements are printed FREE.
general
PSYCHO - HISTORIAN TO SPEAK ON
HITLER IN LECTURE AT CMU - A lead
ing psycho-historian, whose current book 
penetrates the working of Adolph Hitler's 
mind, will speak at Carnegie-Mellon Uni
versity's Breed Hall, first floor of the Mar
garet Morrison Carnegie Building, on Tues
day, January 25, 1977 at 8:15 p.m.
Rudolph Binion, Leff Proffessor of History 
at Brandeis University, will discuss Study
ing Hitler Psychologically: How I Wrote 
Hitler Among the Germans." The lecture, 
sponsored by the CMU Department of His
tory and Philosophy, is free and open to 
the public.
TARTAN JOURNALISM COLLOQUIA
with Ken Service, Director of CMU Public 
Relations. Mr. Service has considerable ex
perience as a free -lance journalist. He has 
had articles published in most of the major 
national news publications. Jan. 25, Feb.
1, & Feb. 8, 4:30 pm in 160 Baker Hall. 
All are welcome.
THURSDAY AFTERNOON LUNCHEON
FORUM. 12:30 p.m. Wherrett Room. This 
j/veeks topic is "Reason: Morality and SelfInterest" addressed by special guest speak
er ALGER HISS. Professor Preston Covey, 
CMU Dept of Philosophy will moderate the 
program.
Free. Bring your lunch and a friend spon
sored by Campus Program Planning and AB 
Lectures & Special Events.
ASCENT OF MAN Film Series  Every 
Tuesday. The f
Tuesday. The first film "Lower than the 
Angels" will be shown on January 25, 
with the remainder of the films appearing 
one week later than the dates on the post
er.
The Feb. 1 film will be "Harvest of the 
Seasons"
2 showings. 11:30 & 12:30 in the Wherrett 
Room, Skibo. Free Bring your lunch. 
Sponsored by Campus Program Planning.
Financial Aid: January 25, 1977 has been
announced as the day for the second 
Financial Aid Forum of this academic year. 
Mr.Walter Cathie, Director of Financial Aid 
will be addressing the University communi
ty in regard to financial aid for the '77 -'78 
academic year. Many federal regulations 
have changed. The session will prove to 
be quite informative all attending.
The forum will be held in Skibo Ball
room on January 25, 1977 at both 12:30 
p.m. and 4:30 p.m. All members of the 
University community are invited to at
tend.
Don't let T.G's die! We are in need of a
T.G.I.F. chairperson -anyone interested 
please leave your name & where you can be 
reached at Skibo info desk immediately!
John P. Crecine, Dean of the College of
Humanities & Social Sciences will have 
open office hours for students, Tuesdays 
Jan. 25 1:30 -3:00, Feb. 1 1:30 -3:30.
PEER HELP IS FORMING A SMALL
GROUP. The individuals will meet weekly 
and focus on becoming more aware of 
themselves and their concerns. Interested 
students can leave their names in Peer 
Help, 150 Baker Hall, and they will be con
tacted within a weeks time. Group size is 
limited.
The Senior Banquet, sponsored by the
Alumni Association, will be held on Satur
day, January 29. Wine and cheese will be 
served in Skibo Ballroom beginning at 7:30 
p.m. followed by dinner in the cafeteria at 
8:30 p.m. Admissions is by ticket only and 
all seniors are eligible to participate. Tick
ets may.be claimed in the Alumni Associa
tion on the fifth floor of Warner Hall be
tween 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. daily 
through January 27.
CAMPUS TOUR GUIDES NEEDED! Ad
missions is seeking tour guides of present 
CMU students to participate in this semes
ter's activities. Tour guides conduct cam
pus tours for prospective students and their 
parents. Such tours enable the visitors to 
gain some insight into what our University 
offers from a person who is involved direct
ly in that college experience. We welcome 
your interest in this program and encour
age you to stop in and speak with Vivian 
in the Admissions Office, 1st floor, War
ner Hall.
It's Spring Carnival Time again: There will
be the first organizational meeting of the 
year on Wednesday, January 19 4:30 room
11 Skibo. Interested people are urged to 
attend this meeting. Assistants for each 
committee will be chosen: Midway, Enter
tainment, Arts & Crafts, Events, Power, 
Rides, Entranceway. Committee Heads are 
needed for Entranceway & Safety.
Do You have a copy of the latest FacultyCourse Evaluation? IF you do and no longger need it there are others who would like 
your copy. Please send your copy to FCE, 
Box 100, Campus Mail. 
Open door policies are great, but not when
the doors are on lockers. If you absentmindedly carried away a key for a Book
store locker, please return it so the lockers 
can be used effectively.
dubs
Spanish table. All persons interested in
practicing their Spanish look for the table 
with the sign:"aqui se habla espanol" in 
the Skibo cafeteria. The table meets for 
lunch on Tuesdays from 11:30 onwards.
CMU Science Fiction Society meets Sun
days at 2 pm in room 11 Skibo. New mem
bers are always welcome.
Interested in informal education? Try the
Free School of Jewish Studies sponsored 
by B'nai B'rith Hillel. Choose from your 
own personal "Jewish Catalogue" craft 
course to: Hebrew, Yiddish, Israeli Danc
ing, Great Books Discussion and Jewish 
Topics Discussion Group and more. For 
more information call 621-8875.
scholarships awards prizes
CMU students are invited to participate in
GLAMOUR Magazine's 1977 Top Ten Col
lege Women Contest. Young women from 
colleges and universities throughout the 
country will compete in GLAMOUR'S 
search for ten outstanding students. A pan
el of GLAMOUR editors will select the 
winners on the basis of their solid records 
of achievement in academic studies and/or 
in extracurricular activities on campus or in 
the community.
GLAMOUR'S Top Ten College Women 
Contest has evolved over the past twentyone years along with the changing interests
and concerns of college women. Ten years 
ago, this was a contest to select the bestdressed on campus, but since 1969 the em
phasis has been on what college women 
have achieved.
The 1977 Top Ten College Women will be 
featured in GLAMOURS August College 
Issue. During April, May or June, the ten 
winners will be invited to New York to 
meet the GLAMOUR staff and will re
ceive a $500 cash prize.
Anyone who is interested in entering the 
search should contact Ken Service for 
more information. The deadline for sub
mitting an application to GLAMOUR is 
February 15, 1977.
Scholarship available: Delta Delta Delta
Scholarship awarded by the Campus Tri 
Delta chapter. Collegian recipient may be 
awarded $1000 National Scholarship 
Award. All full time undergraduate women 
are eligible to apply. Applications are avail
able at the Financial Aid Office, Dean of 
Students Office, or the Tri Delta chapter.
All students interested in applying for two
and three year US Army ROTC Scholar
ships should see Major Rivers in Gym 204 
not later than the first of February 1977 to 
pick up applications. Acceptance of an 
Army Full Tuition Scholarship obligates 
the recipient to four years active duty 
upon graduation. Competition is extreme
ly keen and is based upon the whole person 
concept. Traditionally CMU has been high
ly competitive and all interested persons 
should apply now!
DISNEY COLLEGE ENTERTAINMENT
WORK EXPERIENCE PROGRAM AUDI
TIONS. -Singers, dancers and musicians 
throughout the country will audition, 
beginning February 11, for the Disney 
Entertainment Work Experience Program 
at Disneyland and Walt Disney World. The 
program puts college entertainers to work 
for the summer utilizing their entertain
ment talents and making them eligible for 
college credits.
The Work Experience students perform in 
several entertainment groups, including the 
All-American College Marching Band and 
the All American College Singers, providing 
them with valuable work experience, ex
posing them to top names in entertain
ment, and earning them a salary.
Since the Workshop's inception in 1971, 
more than 1,000 students from all over the 
United States have participated. Several 
have returned to work full time in the Dis
ney theme parks.
Selected applicants will receive scholar
ships to the Disney Entertainment Work 
Experience Program, a grant for housing 
costs and a $1,000 stipend for the summer 
performances. The auditions are open to 
all freshmen, sophomores and juniors cur
rently in college. The deadline for applica
tions is March 1, 1977.
In addition to performing in the parks, 
students in the Workshop Program will re
ceive training in voice, movement, com
position, arranging, acting, and other skills 
which enrich a performer.
Guest lecturers from the Disney organiza
tion. plus noted personalities and perform
ing groups from the entertainment fields 
will be invited to speak to students. In pre
vious years. Jack Lemmon, Mel Torme and 
Paul Winfield have addressed workshop 
participants.
The work schedule for the Disney college 
program is eight hours per day, five days 
per week. This includes performances, 
workshops and rehearsals.
Auditions will be held in Chicago (Feb. 11 - 
12), New York (Feb. 14-15), Washington,
D. C. (Feb. 17), Atlanta (Feb. 19), Miami 
(Feb. 21), Orlando (Feb. 22), Kansas City, 
Missouri (Feb. 25), Dallas (Feb.26), Hous
ton (Feb. 27), Salt Lake City (Feb. 28), 
Seattle (March 5), San Francisco (March
6), and Los Angeles (March 7-8).
Further information and an application can } 
be obtained from Disney Entertainment/ 
Work Experience Program, Entertainment 
Division, Walt Disney World, P. O. Box 40,
Lake Buena Vista, Florida 32830. Tele
phone: (305) 824-4206.
If you're eligible for your college's federal
work-study program, there's a new pro
gram sponsored by the Pennsylvania De*
partment of Education that can give you 
academic credit, money and work experi
ence in your chosen career field.
For further information, students should 
see their financial aid officer, college coun
selor or contact Director, REAL Program, 
Pennsylvania Department of Education,
Box 911, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17126. 
Phone (717) 787-9602.
classified
Student Employment Service needs clerks
on work study for light typing & phone 
work. Hrs. 11-12 & 6-9 M-F, 1-4 Sat. Leave 
name, number at Skibo Info Desk.
Red: Underneath clock. Science Hall
Lobby, 1/28,3:00.
6, B.: Shooting pool alone, Skibo, 1/27,
2:30
Student Corp needs work study person/s
for light typing & phone work. Hrs. 11-12 f 
& 6-9 M-F, 1-4 Sat. Any or all of the hrs. 
Leave name & number at Skibo Info Desk.
Stereo Reciever  Realistic ST A 200, 112
watts RMS, 1 year old, was $469.00, need 
money $215.00 687-9448.
Private Classical Guitar Instruction 687-
8949.
Garage Apartment Adjacent Schenley Park.
Rent, $65/month & 5 hr/wk chores. Utili
ties included. Ownership of car preferred.
Dr. Schacter 687-9934.
Girls. .. Are you looking for a summer
counselor position? Applicant are now be
ing considered for the 1977 camp season. 
Must be able to teach one of the following: *
Arts & Crafts Director, Dancing, Theater 
Director, Piano Accompanist and singing. 
Archery, Tennis, Golf, Trampoline, Gym
nastics, Photography, Cheerleading, Scout
ing and Nature Study, A.R.C. Swimming 
Instruction, Boating, Canoeing, and Water 
Skiing Instructor. Write: Camp Office,
138 Woodland Drive, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228
$200 Weekly Stuffing Envelopes. Already
stamped and addressed. Free supplies. Send 
self-addressed, stamped envelope ^Diver
sified, 1206 Camden Drive, Richmond, 
Virginia 23229
Vince, Tuesday night for backgammon.
Love, Julie
SQUALLOR: You need not live in it any
more. You need not suffer past Feb.! You 
can sublet our beautiful 2 -bedroom apart
ment! Woodburning fireplace, built -in 
bookshelves, dishwasher. You can rent this 
for $200/month & utilities, in the heart of 
Scenic Shadyside. Don't Delay! Call now.
Mike or Steve 361-4054 or Gail 621-7853 
Offer won't last. So Act now. /

---------------------------------------------------

Week in Review
by Wendolf Dolson caul Debbie Rosenkrantz
Jimmy Carter pledged to protect and
defend the Constitution of the United 
States before a crowd of 150,000 who 
turned out despite the 30 degree weather. 
Carter was inaugurated two minutes after 
noon, Thursday, Jan. 21, by Chief Justice 
Warren E. Burger. In his brief Inaugural 
Address, Carter thanked former President 
Gerald Ford for all that he had done for 
the country. The new President went on to 
say that we must adjust to changing times 
and still hold to unchanging principles. 
Rather than promise the American people 
yet another dream, he urged faith in the 
old dream. With regard to foreign policy, 
Carter was far less aggressive than former 
presidents, speaking of a quiet strength 
based not merely on the size of our arsenal 
but on the nobility of our ideas. Although 
he made the moral obligation of a free 
country to others quite plain, President 
Carter was obviously interested in van
quishing the real enemies of the American 
populace when he said, we will ever be 
vigilant and never be vulnerable, and we 
will fight wars against poverty, ignorance, 
and injustice, for these are the enemies 
against which our forces can be honorably 
marshalled.
Vice President Walter Mondale has be
gun his term with a nine day tour of Eu
rope. His good will mission will lead him 
through Brussels, Bonn, Rome, Paris, Lon
don, and Tokyo. Among the topics on his 
agenda will be NATO and preparations for 
the Spring Summit meetings.
UP I Wire Service courtesy of WRCT 
Wall Street Journal courtesy of A.Rezek
Cold weather throughout the country
has caused a severe natural gas shortage. In
dustries are suffering from cutbacks which 
deny them up to 100% of their fuel supply, 
in favor of home heating. Many plants, 
among them automobile factories, are 
closed down indefinitely, idling significant 
numbers of workers. The Ohio River, of 
major importance in transportation of fuel 
supplies, has frozen for the first time since 
1948. Further South, snow has fallen for 
the first time in some parts of Florida; at 
least 40% of the states-citrus crop has been 
ruined, and Florida Governor Reuben 
Askew may ask the new president to de
clare the state a disaster area. Weather ex
perts are blaming the unusual cold spell on 
abnormally warm Pacific waters on the 
West Coast and on the high pressure zones 
in Arctic latitudes which are pushing the 
freezing air southward. Both explanations 
indicate continued colder weather this 
year and in years to come. Meanwhile, 
hockey games in Alaska have been can
celled due to above freezing temperatures 
(which are 30 degrees above normal) 
melting ice.
Labor Secretary designate Ray Marshall
has criticized President-elect Jimmy Car
ters Jobs Program. The University of 
Texas professor told the Senate Labor 
Committee that he favors a smaller tax cut 
and has recommended a $5 billion public 
works spending program. Marshall has 
encouraged stimulation of public works 
and housing. He tends to support organ
ized labor, backing union causes such as 
rights to organize, picketing rights, and in
creased minimum wage, while fighting 
decreased minimum wage for teenagers.
Ending a three-month struggle to die 
like a Man instead of spending the rest 
of his life in prison, convicted Utah mur
derer Gary Gilmore was executed by a 
five man firing squad early last week. This 
was the first execution in the United 
States since 1967. The Supreme Court 
ruled that the death penalty is constitu
tional.
After a 26-24 ratification of the Equal
Rights Amendment by the Indiana State 
Senate last week, the ERA remains only 
three state votes short of the 38 required 
for passage.
Ten of Carters cabinet nominees were 
readily approved and have already joined 
the President in their new capacities. They 
are Cyrus Vance: Sec. of State, Michael 
Blumenthal: Sec. of Treasury, Harold 
Brown: Sec. of Defense, Cecil Andrews: 
Sec. of Interior, Bob Bergland: Sec. of 
Agriculture, Juanita M. Kreps: Sec. of 
Commerce, Patricia Roberts Ha-ris: Sec. of 
HUD, Borck Adams: Sec. of Transporta
tion, Thomas B. Lance: Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget, and 
Charles L. Schultze: Chairman of the 
Council of Economic Affairs. Still being 
questioned, however, are two conservatives 
and one liberal. Attorney 
General-Designate Griffin Bell is being 
questioned by the NAACP among others 
for a dubious stand on civil rights issues. 
Nominee for Sec. of Health, Education and 
Welfare, Joseph Califanos firm stand 
against abortion has brought him under 
fire. The appointment of Ray Marshall as 
Labor Sec. is still hanging in the air because 
of his solid prolabor record.
Premier Indira Ghandi has scheduled
elections that have been postponed twice 
since she declared a national emergency in 
India over a year and a half ago. Following 
the declaration, she has jailed thousands of 
her political adversaries. Political restric
tions are to be lightened to enable all 
factions to participate in the March elec
tion. Two of Ghandis major opponents 
who have been jailed since June, 1975, 
were recently released from prison. One of 
the two called the action a publicity stunt.
Federal Health Officiais at the Center 
for Disease Control in Atlanta say they 
have found the cause of the Legionnaires 
Disease, which mysteriously killed 27 
people who attended the American Legion 
Conference in Philadelphia last summer. 
Preliminary research indicates that the 
disease is spread by a bacteria-like organ
ism. Germs cultured from the lungs of one 
of the victims were injected into guinea 
pigs, which subsequently became ill. The 
unnamed virus may have been responsible 
for a number of outbreaks of what was 
misdiagnosed as viral pneumonia.
On Jan. 17, Jimmy Carter defended his
candidate for directorship of the CIA, 
Theodore Sorenson as fully qualified. He 
went on to say that the attacks were 
groundless and unfair since Sorensons 
conduct had been consistent with what I 
understood to be common practice in ad
ministrations of both parties. Neverthe
less, Sorenson withdrew the next day 
saying that he didnt think the nation 
would have been ready for his beliefs as a 
pacifist and of the value of public disclo
sures.
Entropy's New 
CtvecV Ca$h*ng Policy
A new check cashing policy has been instituted to 
increase the probability, of getting a check cashed 
on campus. Please note that the ability of ENTROPY
to cash a check is always dependent upon the amount
of cash on hand in the register.
1) Entropy will not cash any checks Monday-Friday
from 10:30 to 4:00. During this time period the 
cashier's office is open and will cash your check.
2) On those occasions when the cashier's office runs 
out of money, ENTROPY will cash your check only 
after the clerk has called the cashier's office 
to verify that they are out of money.
3) Monday-Friday from 4:00 till closing ENTROPY will 
cash checks up to $10.00
4) Saturday & Sunday ENTROPY will cash checks from 
10:30 to closing with a $5.00 limit.
5) The 25C service charge will be applied to all checks
cashed regardless of the amount. ?
6) ENTROPY will accept checks for payment of purchases 
at all times.
7) If your name appears on the university bad Check 
list, ENTROPY will not cash your check. Only 
notification from the Cashier's Office will remove 
your name from the list.
8) No checks will be cashed without a CMU validated ID.
Thank you,
The Management
31
MONDAY 
SKIBO 39 
6:30 P.M.
MASS - BUFFET - DISCUSSION
Theme: The Inner 
Life of a
Christian and Our 
Presence in the 
World.
SUNDAY MASSES:
7:00 PJA. Saturday Evening
Tech House: 5125 Margaret Morrison
10:30 AJA. Science Hall 
Room 7500
DAILY MASSES:
12:30 Noontime: Monday through Friday
Ski bo Room 39
University Oratory of the Holy Spirit Parish 
CMU Campus - Fr. Bob English 
4040 Bigelow Blvd. Pittsburgh. Pa. 15213 
681-3181

---------------------------------------------------

page 6  TARTAN  January 25, 1977
EPP & SUPA Study Completed
by Wendolf Dolson
The influence of policies and pricing 
on the electrical consumption of residen
tial users and the proportionate risks asso
ciated with various federal regulations of 
orthopedic surgical implants were the 
subjects of investigation conducted by 
CMU study groups. The groups, comprised 
of students from the Universitys School 
of Urban and Public Affairs (SUPA) and 
Engineering and Public Policy (EPP) Pro
grams, consummated their semester of 
research in public hearings (in mid-Decem
ber) and reports of recommendations.
In the first study, the student task 
force was attempting to develop a method 
of better utilizing present electricity 
generating capacity. Their report notes 
that the demand for electricity is growing 
as are the problems facing the electric 
power industry in producing that electri
city. Increasing costs and diminishing fuel 
supplies, environmental regulations, and 
inflation in the area of financing and 
construction all combine to make better 
use of power load managing techniques 
a practical and necessary alternative to the 
construction of additional facilities.
Load management techniques entail a 
redistribution of electrical consumption 
over time. By shifting demands away from 
periods of high consumption, they facili
tate more uniform and more efficient 
realization of present generating capacity. 
Although consumption of electricity in 
residential areas only ranges from 20-30% 
of total demand, it had previously received 
little attention and was, consequently, 
chosen as the area upon which the task 
force would concentrate its investigations.
After examining utility company date 
and surveying consumers, the group fo
cused on two modifying techniques. Direct 
control systems would provide a utility 
with the ability to switch home devices on 
and off. Detroit Edison is trying this 
experimentally; their utility has direct 
control of some 200,000 electrically 
powered hot water heaters (via radio sig
nal). During peak demand hours the 
heaters can be briefly shut off to lessen the 
power load overall with minimal inconveni
ence to the consumer. Time dependent 
rate structures which put premium prices 
on consumption during peak hours (not 
unlike the pricing system of long distance 
telephone calls) were found to be poten
tially less effective. Surveys of consumers 
indicated that few could or would signifi
cantly change their usage of heavy appli
ances even if the electricity cost them 
decidedly less during off hours. Both 
suggestions would require creating new 
apparatus, but the expense of designing, 
manufacturing, and installing home 
metering devices capable of monitoring 
hourly electric consumption was recog
nized as considerable.
The forces findings and certain 
recommendations were passed to the 
Public Utility Commission (PUC). Most 
prominent among these seemed to be 
the message that power companies should 
begin to structure and implement load 
management programs. Also emphasized 
was the opinion that actively involving 
the general populace in the development 
of these programs was integral to their 
success. The students advised the PUC 
to start small-scale experiments which 
would employ time dependent rates so that
actual reaction to them could be more 
accurately evaluated. The tactics consi
dered are clearly delaying tactics (de
ploying construction of a new 100 MW 
plant which would cost an estimated 
$500 million), but they are valuable in 
their own right as means of attainging 
greater efficiency in any facilities.
The second study was an attempt to 
determine the best implementation, with 
respect to the patient and society, of the 
Federal Device Amendments of 1976 on 
orthopedic surgical implants under the 
Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. 
Orthopedic surgical implants, such as 
bone plates and hip replacements, were 
chosen for the study because they repre
sent the type of medical device that such 
legislation seeks to regulate, explained 
the chief faculty advisor.
The task force researched the area 
and conducted a comprehensive survey 
of patients, surgeons, and implant manu
facturers. Their findings indicated that 
the implants which are currently being 
marketed are not unreasonably hazardous. 
Failures of the devices were predominantly 
the result of actions of doctor or patient; 
failures attributable to fundamental design 
or production deficiencies were extremely 
rare. The voluntarily high standards which 
manufacturers claimed to maintain seem to 
be borne out by the failure rate of 
considerably less than 1% in roughly 20 
million implants sold to date. The group 
did note the necessity of making implants 
sufficiently durable and sturdy to function 
a lifetime.
Clinical failures were clearly a function 
of the surgeons familiarity with the 
actual implants and operation its imple
mentation entailed. The report suggested 
that a reference guide containing perti
nent information such as device charac
teristics and recommended surgical tech
niques (similar to the Physicians Desk 
Reference) be compiled for surgical 
implants. The CMU team also designed a 
Source of Failure Analysis System which 
it recommended be used by the Federal 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA).
The cost of administering the currently 
excessive regulations was thought to far 
exceed what minimal improvements it 
could potentially effect in the production 
of safer implants, without even touching 
the crux of the problem, clinical errors. 
Furthermore, the students feared that such 
stringent laws would stifle gains that could 
potentially continue to improve patient 
mobility while reducing risks of pain 
and/or death. Their conclusion, presented 
to a panel of medical, government, and 
manufacturing experts, was that all ortho
pedic surgical implants be reevaluated as 
Class I (general controls) in order to 
insure future innovation.
The groups, by considering techno
logical problems in conjunction with their 
societal implications, were able to make 
realistic predictions and recommendations 
for the future. Previous projects which 
employed similar tactics were studies of 
the Pittsburgh Housing Court, Pennsyl
vanias motor vehicle inspection program, 
and the impact of the 1974 Federal Safe 
Drinking Water Acts on Pittsburgh area 
water supplies.
All students wishing to share the interests of 
the Hispanic community at Carnegie-AAellon 
University are invited to attend the first 
organizational meeting of the Hispanic Club 
on Thursday the 27th. of January at Skibo, 
room 11. Social and cultural activities; 
knowledge of Spanish is not essential. 
Everyone welcome!
"Music and Refreshments."
c<^=

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1977 - TARTAN  page 7
New Graphics Program
bv Maris Paul
A new undergraduate program in Gra
phic Communications Management (GCM) 
has been developed at Carnegie-Mellon and 
a prominent printing industry executive 
named as its head. Edward W. (Ned) 
Evans, the unanimous choice of a fourperson search committee, was Vice Presi
dentSales and Market Planning for 
Miller Western Corporation, principal 
manufacturer of printing presses in North 
America, before his assumption of the 
CMU post on January 1. He has also been 
appointed senior lecturer of graphic com
munications and associate head of AMS.
The new GCM program, believed to be 
the first in the country to combine 
management science with a rich technological curriculum in graphic communica
tions, will begin in September, 1977.
The foundation for the GCM program 
is the undergraduate curriculum of Admin
istration and Management Science (AMS) 
in the Graduate School of Industrial Ad
ministration (GSIA). Courses of study in 
the AMS portion of the curriculum include 
Economic Analysis, Statistics, Quantitative 
Controls (business and cost accounting), 
Organizational Behavior, Production, Oper
ations Research, Marketing, Business & 
Labor, Government & Business Fluctua
tions, Finance, and Business Law.
Heavy stress is also placed on Math and 
Computer Science, not only to prepare 
students for the use of the computer as a 
management tool, but also to understand 
and explore its use and potential in graphic 
communications transmission and produc
tion.
Evans believes the advanced graphic
communications capabilities of CMlFs 
Computer Science Department make the 
university ideally suited to offer the new 
program. Technical advances in photo 
composing have placed the printing indus
try at the threshold of a new generation 
of electronic communication, Evans says. 
Our goal is to prepare managers capable 
of adapting to future technological devel
opments by providing the students with 
thorough backgrounds in management 
science and computer-based graphic 
communications systems.
Approximately one third of the 
required credits will be in graphic com
munications technology, including but 
not limited to the following courses: 
Elements of Graphic Communications; 
GC Markets; GC Technology; GC Mate
rials; three GC Processes courses; and 
Physics, Chemistry and Computer Science 
for Graphic Communications. The latter 
three are specially tailored to provide a 
strong background in these disciplines as 
they pertain to the industry. In addition, 
a senior GC seminar program invites guest 
speakers to relate the knowledge imparted 
in these courses to the industry at large.
An important adjunct to the program 
is the close affiliation and involvement of 
the faculty and students with the Graphic 
Arts Technical Foundation (GATF), an 
internationally known center for research 
and training located on Forbes Avenue. 
Evans will work closely with GATF Execu
tive Director Gilbert W. Bassett, who has 
arranged for CMU students to have access 
to GATFs research laboratory and the 
foundations Wadewitz library, which 
Evans considers the most comprehensive 
collection of graphic arts technical material
Graduate Studies 
In Engineering 
At Penn State
The College of Engineering of The Pennsylvania State University 
invites inquiries for graduate study from undergraduates majoring 
in engineering. A wide spectrum of graduate programs is avail
able to help further prepare you for careers in industry, business, 
government, or education.
Graduate ProgramDegrees
AcousticsM.S., M.Eng.. Ph D
Aerospace EngineeringM.S., Ph.D.
gricultral Engineeringr M.S., Ph D
Architectural EngineeringM.S.
.BioengineeringM.S., Ph.D.
Chemical. EngineeringM.S.. M.Eng., Ph D
Civil EngineeringM.S.. M.Eng., Ph D
Electrical EngineeringM.S.. Ph D
Engineenng MechanicsM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Environmental EngineeringM.S.. Ph.D.
Industrial EngineringM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Mechanical EngineeringM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Nuclar EngineeringM.S., M.Eng., Ph.D.
Financial assistance available through appointment as a graduate assistant.
. Penn State is an equal opportunity affirmative action employer
Fill iri, clip out and return to Dean of Engineering, The Pennsylvania 
State University, 101 Hammond Building, University Park, PA 16802.
Institution and Undergraduate Major ___________________' ________
Interested in information on Graduate Program in _________________________
ame  '_______ _________________________ 
Address ; '   . - ___ _______
City and State, ' __________;______ Zip Code ___________
in existence.
As a further important aspect of a wellrounded program, a summer eam-andlearn program will permit students to gain 
valuable work experience during their 
college years. Evans hopes to attract 
a class of from twenty to thirty students, a 
size he considers ideal to allow each stu
dent to receive individual attention and 
guidance.
Mr. Evans, a 1952 graduate of CMlTs 
Printing Management Program (in existence 
from 1917 to 1964), is Vice President of 
same alumni group, which numbers over 
1000. He has been recognized for his inno
vations and contributions to the printing 
industry, the second largest in the nation 
(food is first, clothing third). His daughter 
is currently enrolled as a junior Mathe
matics and Computer Science major at 
CMU.
Information about admission to the 
new program can be obtained from the
Admissions Office or Mr. Edward W. 
Evans, Room 206, GSIA.
Edward Evans, Head of the Graphic 
Communications Management Program
Housing Increase
continued from page 1
dering the installation and/or expansion 
o kitchens in all the Hill dorms and Mudge 
House. Mudge has a kitchen, but students 
have not been permitted to uSfe it; Lounge 
areas in the Hill dorms would be converted 
after consultation with the residents.
Dillon also discussed the installation of 
a Student Centrex system. The system will 
be installed unless the administration 
receives overwhelmingly, negative com
ments. Dillon foresees the Student Cen
trex money going into a separate account 
to be used only for the phone system. If 
there is any money left over at the end of 
the year, it would be used to lower the cost 
of the system next year. According to
Dillon, it would be impractical to return 
50 cents to 2,000 students. He feels that 
the cost can be predicted to within $1,000.
While Auxiliary Services plans to change 
$30 a person for phone per year, Student 
Senate passed a motion that the system 
should be adopted only if the rates are 
equal per phone, rather than per person. 
Dillon said he is open for suggestions on 
the rate structure.
Speaking about the proposed plan to 
build a hotel on campus, Dillon empha
sized that the plan will not divert money 
from other programs. Several hotel chains 
have offered what Dillon termed lucra
tive offers for the privilege of using 
university property. However, none of the 
offers h&ve been specific. Dillon sees this 
as another business venture to augment 
the universitys income.
NEED EXTRA 
MONEY????
If you are a healthy MALE, age 20-30, 150-100 pounds. 
Volunteers are needed for Bioavailability Testing 
Program on absorption rates of prescription 
medications. All Studies are conducted under struct 
medical supervision.
 Program involves small blood samples drawn 
at various times throughout the study.
 Physical exams will be given in Room 335,
Hotel Webster Hall 
... Each Wednesday, 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. 
(No lunch4 hour fast, water only)
... Each Thursday, 9 a.m. to 11 a.m.
(No breakfastfast, water only)
NEW volunteers will be given $10 for taking1 our 
physical exam, including complete blood chemistries. 
Pay scale ranges from $50-500, depending upon 
requirements of the study.
For Complete Details, Please Call
Biodecision Laboratories, Inc.
Room 335, Webster Hall, 4415 Fifth Avenue 
682-2022 
Or Come directly to the Physical Exam 
(PLEASE BRING PROOF OF AGE)

---------------------------------------------------

page 8 - TARTAN - January 25. 1977
Trustee Committee Meets
by Eric Petersen
Last Monday, January 17, the Trustees 
Committee .on Student Affairs met to re
view existing student programs and discuss 
future plans' This committee meets three 
times a year and includes both members of 
the Board of Trustees and a student repre
sentative from each class. The agenda in
cluded reports on admissions and housing 
planning for the upcoming school year, the 
programs of the Student -Alumni Relations 
Council (SARC), the Committee on Racial 
Affect, and the proposed revision of the 
school disciplinary system.
Bill Dillon, Director of Auxiliary Ser
vices, reported on his plans to provide 
housing for the campus community next 
year. Through careful planning and the ac
quisition of additonal spaces such as No. 
12 Roselawn and the lease of the fifth 
floor of Webster Hall Hotel, there will be 
enough space for all students desiring hous
ing. According to Dillon , if more students 
choose to enroll than is currently project
ed, however, there will be serious problems 
with housing next year.
Victoria Falco, Associate Director of 
Admissions, discussed enrollment planning 
for 1977. She stated that this year would 
be an excellent one for CMU admissions, 
for the incoming class appears to be of 
even higher academic quality than that of 
last year. Approximately 2400 applications 
are expected, while the admissions office 
projects the freshman class will be limited 
to about 950. In addition, about 150 trans
fer students are expected, bringing the 
total number of new students for the fall
of 1977 up to approximately 1100.
Bob McCurdy, Alumni Director report
ed on the programs of SARC. The numer
ous committees within SARC are divided 
into two main areas. The first of these aims 
is to promote Student -Alumni relations 
through activities such as Homecoming 
and the Thanksgiving hospitality program. 
The other area, concerned with career de
velopment, now includes new programs 
such as career seminars, post -school career 
development and adjustment, internship 
periods with various firms, and the summer 
job bank.
Earle Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, 
reported on the proposed revision of the 
disciplinary system, which is discussed else
where in this issue. The committee voted 
to endorse the adoption of this plan by 
the full Board of Trustees and expressed 
the belief that clear knowledge of a dis
ciplinary process and its responses will 
serve the campus well to prevent destruc
tive and disruptive behavior. Swank also 
commented on the work of the Committee 
on Racial Affect and the plans which the 
University will implement to insure that 
students who graduate from CMU will 
carry with them positive values to insure 
opportunities for racial and minority 
groups, and that CMU alumni will play a 
responsible role in advancing these goals 
for the community at large.
One of the trustees, Paula Hughes, then 
called to the attention of the committee a 
paragraph from the report of the evalua
tion team representing the commission of 
Higher Education of the middle States As
sociation quoted below. She expressed the 
hope that this paragraph and indeed the en
tire report would be read by the entire 
campus community. The paragraph is: 
 The third component of CMU left the 
team in awe. Carnegie -Mellon students 
show high seriousness about their work, 
but at the same time stay pleasant and 
open. All of us were impressed by the
reception they gave us. In addition, 
(almost certainly because they intended 
us to be) all of us were impressed by the 
students attitude toward CMU and 
their real pride in the institution. They 
are busy, but they evidently want to be; 
and just as evidently they enjoy it that 
way. They are a most extraordinary 
and impressive group of young people.
99
Rooms Rented in Webster Hall
continued from page 1
to accommodate incoming students. When 
asked about the need for this new dorm 
since the number of students in elementary 
and secondary schools across the country 
is shrinking, Dillon replied that even if the 
number of prospective students does 
shrink, Carnegie-Mellon attracts such a 
selective percentage that the enrollment 
here will not go down and the new housing 
will be necessary.
If it is built, the new dorm will be co-ed 
with an apartment type arrangement, pro
bably with private baths and kitchen faci
lities.
-c/?o.a3emic &nd 
Hrec.hnio.aL  BOOK SALE/
-Pap&riac.kA ahvalues, -up to*20? %
^fWon SftLt .99/ 
QeglnA (Jdn. ZS
CMU toolcS'toRE4
Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomo
7:30 in Skibo> Ballroom. ^Tomorrow
n SkW> Baltroom^^omorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Sk 
ibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo 
Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ball 
room. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom, Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom 
. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. T 
omorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomor 
row night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow 
night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow nigh 
t at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 
7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:3 
0 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in 
Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Ski 
bo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo B 
allroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballr 
oom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom.
Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. To 
morrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorr 
qw night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow n 
ight at 7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:3||in SU|0ddli^M^^TomoMM^ight 
AB 7:30 in Skibo bzm:pdplO. Tomorrow night at 7:3oMskiLMB;Bo^^^Twoi^^v"r^pit al 
7:30 in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in SMHI^Wofl ^^hL7:30
in Skibo Ballroom. Tomorrow night at 7:30 in Skibo lllrool lRiC|tfOw^Bhirft7^^^ in
Skibo Ballroom. Funded by your Student Activities Fee SkibO BallBom. atSKib
o6a41r-oot. Tomorrow nig-M at-7<30 kv Skibo -Ballroom.-  -Tomorrownight--at--7J30-ir-v-Skibo--Ba

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1977  TARTAN  page 9
JANUARY 25, 1977 / ISSUE FIVE : QUOTES

---------------------------------------------------

page 10  TARTAN January 25, 1977
by Mark Aksoy
Not too long ago I attended a talk by the re
nowned Jeremy Bartlett. Being a descendant of 
the great John Bartlett, he has been making the 
lecture circuit hawking the new 15th edition of 
his great-grandfather's only book, Bartlett's Quo
tations. He's basically worried that it isn't any 
thicker than the edition of 40 years ago and that 
it isn't selling well nowdays. A paunchy, heavy-set 
but vivacious man, Bartlett has a continual tend
ency to hold both hands up and wiggle his index 
fingers while he's talking. He began:
Ladies and gentlemen -and students,tooI'm 
here tonight to talk about two increasingly seri
ous problems that we in the quote business are 
being forced to face, namely the growing short
age of people willing to quote quotable quotes, 
and the lack of any truly new quotable quotes. 
The extent of quote starvation in our nation is 
scandulous and has even spread to our centers of 
learning. Why, if a typical member of your cam
pus community were to sit down to a cafeteria 
meal which was halfalive or otherwise unpalat
able, he'd probably do little more than spew out 
a few 4 -letter epithets and lapse into pauseous 
silence. Fifty years ago, that same person would
TARTAN FOUO
JANUARY 25,1977 / ISSUE FIVE : QUOTES
EDITOR DAVID G. ROUSSOS 
ASSISTANT EDITOR JEFFERY LLOYD ZASLOW 
ARTDIRECTOR VICTORIA BOND HILL 
CONTRIBUTING ARTISTS MARK AKSOY 
ANDY EPSTEIN 
SHERRY SEIGEL
COVERDESIGN OF QUOTES
have quietly folded his hands on his lap, cleared 
his throat to get everyone's attention (and to 
keep the food down in his stomach), and with 
great reserve would have uttered something like: 
'"By suppers more have been killed than Galen 
ever cured'. . .from Jacula Predentum by George 
Herbert, 1593-1633." To which his audience 
would have applauded enthusiastically with ex
clamations of "well put!" and "How apropos!"
Regretably enough, modern man spends more 
time than ever trying to communicate with words 
like "Unnhh". . ."Well. .or, on a more intellec
tual plane, with phrases such as, "I don't know.. . 
uhh, well, .. .you know.. .". How dull! If men in 
times of great significance had little more than 
this to say, history would be stopped dead in its 
tracks! People would become too bored with the 
course of events to care at all. Civilization would 
come to an inevitable end, etc.,etc.
Now to get to the point, I myself never met a 
quote I (heh, heh) didn't like, and so nearly all 
of them lie here in this new expanded edition of 
Bartlett's Quotations. Now all of you can help 
save civilization by putting excitement back into 
our language!
But if you don't like mouthing the words of 
dead you can always add to humanity's trea
sury of great quotes by manufacturying your 
own in your spare time. It's simple and easy! 
Here are some handy tips and suoreme examples.
1. First, if you can thinK of anything to say, 
you can often turn into a dandy quote by 
simply saying it twice, being sure to stick 
in an extra adjective and/or adverb the 
second time around:
"Power currupts. Absolute power corrupts 
absolutely."
T. B. Macaulay (1800-1859)
2. If you are an animal, you have it easy. Any
thing you Say will be quotable:
"Nevermore!"
The Raven
Note how compact, how succinct this is, yet 
it was apparently good enough to end up in 
one of Poe's more famous poems.
3. If something makes sense when said for
wards as well as backwards, the combina
tion immediately qualifies as a quote:.
"Let us never negotiate out of fear, but let 
us never fear to negotiate."
John F. Kennedy
4. If you still find it impossible to come up 
with anything, a quick way of producing a 
famous quote involves searching out some
one you haven't seen or corresponded with
in, say 10-15 years. Walk up to him and at 
the risk of sounding like a fool, ask him if 
he is:
"Dr. Livingston, I presume."
Stanley
5. Finally, if all else fails, try stating a simple 
truth as straightforwardly as you can:
"If you go long enough without a bath, 
even the fleas will let you alone."
Ernie Pyle (1900-1945) 
And of course, it helps if you're already 
famous: .
"Life is short; live it up."
Nikita Khrushchev quoted in 
N. Y. Times Magazine, Aug. 3, 1958
These are just a few of the many ways by 
which you can raise your QQ, or quote quotient. 
To conclude, I earnestly hope that this generation 
will eventually produce its quota of quotable 
quotes. At least enough to make the 16th edition 
fatter and more expensive than the 15th. As for 
the latter, it is now selling at your favorite book
store for a list price of slightly more than $25.00 
but (heft, hehltton't quote meofi it!

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1977  TARTAN  page 11
Every Town to is Fool"
by Jeff Zaslow
with quotes from Fred Koogs' 
collection of 1001 Yiddish Proverbs
Rachel was born somewhere in Czarist Russia, 
about the same time that Tevye was singing "If 
I Were A Rich Man" in Anatevka. Her father was 
Klauser, the town-hunchback. Her mother was 
Tillie, the town-public relations-director. Rachel 
had three brothers; Mengel, Donwalla, and Gratsnook. They was the town-stamp collector, towngoat-milker, and town-wife beater. . . respectively. 
Everyone in her town (called "Our Town" by the 
townspeople) had to have their place in society. . 
.so Klauser, at the time of Rachel's birth decided 
to make her the town-mystery.
Upon her birth she was shielded from the rest 
of the world; away from Tillie, her brothers, and 
the other assorted town-clowns. Klauser hid her 
in the woods, where she drank from a pond and 
lived like a wolf. Klauser brought her food, and 
taught her how to read. The rest of what she 
knew she picked up from the wolves. (And in 
Russia, there aren't too many wolves to speak of, 
pnd very few intelligent wolves in that grouping. . 
.so there wasn't much she could pick up.)
Her first 18 years passed very quickly, and 
soon the time came for Rachel to find a husband 
and of course settle down. No one in town had 
ever seen her besides her father Klauser, but ru
mor had it from the town-rumor-monger and the 
town-rumor-spreader that Rachel was the cutest 
girl in town (actually out-of-town and in the 
woods). But only Klauser knew what Rachel was 
like.
Six days after her 18th birthday, he brought 
her into town in a potatoe sack. The street filled 
with people as he dragged the sack past the towninsurance salesman and into the town-matchmaker's shop.
Carmela, the matchmaker, had heard the sto
ries that circulated about Rachel, and was excited 
to finally see Klauser's hidden treasure.
"A PRETTY GIRL IS THE KIND OF GOODS 
THAT ARE ALWAYS IN DEMAND." She told 
him as he picked up the sack and threw it on the 
table. He still wouldn't open it however.
IF EVERYBODY LOOKS FOR PRETTY 
BRIDES, THEN WHAT IS TO BECOME OF THE 
UGLY GIRLS?" Klauser said, as he dusted off 
his hunch on his back.
"Oh. Ha. Ha. UGLY GIRLS LET THEM
SELVES BE SEDUCED.' She answered. "But
we all know that your Rachel will make a won
derful wife. . .AND A PRETTY WIFE IS HALF 
A LIVELYHOOD."
"But what about an ugly girl? What is your 
policy, matchmaker?" Klauser looked at her 
intently.
MORE BLEMISH. MORE DOWRY." She 
said, matter-of-factly. Then she smiled. "But 
for a husband.. A PRETTY FACE COSTS 
MONEY." Besides. ALL BRIDES ARE BEAU
TIFUL. ALL THE DEAD ARE PIOUS!"
"Don't be facetious Matchmaker. IF A GIRL 
HAS NO OTHER VIRTUES, EVEN A FRECKLE 
CAN BE CONSIDERED ONE." He said as the 
potatoe sack shifted, and fell to the floor.
"What do you have in the bag anyway? Let's 
see her Klauser," she said. But he wouldn't open 
it.
"We all know that A PRETTY FACE 
DOESN'T MAKE FOR A GOOD WIFEV He 
said, in a pleading tone.
"Are you afraid to marry off your daughter, 
Klauser? It's often said that WHEN YOU MAR
RY OFF A DAUGHTER, A HUMP IS OFF 
YOUR BACK."
"Perhaps," He said, as his eyes rested uneasily 
on the sack. "But it's also been said.. .WHEN 
DOES A HUNCHBACK REJOICE? WHEN HE 
SEES ONE WITH A LARGER HUMP."
Carmela sudenly got worried. "A HOMELY 
GIRL HATES THE MIRROR, Klauser. That's 
a given. Have you had this lump of freckles in 
the woods the whole time for that reason?"
CONTINUED ON PAGE 14
Thursday Afternoon Luncheon 
F O R U M
Alger Hiss. Guest Speaker
Preston Covey. Dept, of Philosophy. Moderator
January 27
WHRRTT ROOM. SKIBO 
Bring Your Lunch &A Friend
.0&&V?a o So?.31 f0ir0o? f,o55V5r276VtV6Vp1 cio0a
"REASON: MORALITY AND SLF-INTG RGST

---------------------------------------------------

page 12 - TARTAN - January 25, 1977
CHILDREN PLAY AT BEING SOLDIERS. THAT IS SENSIBLE. 
BUT WHY SHOULD SOLDIERS PLAY AT BEING CHILDREN?
KRAUS
IN LOVE. THERE IS ALWAYS ONE WHO KISSES AND ONE WHO OFFERS THE CHEEK. FRENCH PROVERB I AM NOT A CROOK. RICHARD M. NIXON
I DO NOT MIND LYING, BUT I HATE INACCURACY.
SAMUEL BUTLER II
MY HEART IS IN MY WORKANDREW CARNEGIEMOST WOMEN ARE NOT SO YOUNG AS THEY ARE PAINTED.
BEERBOHM

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1977  TARTAN  page 13
Folio 
For Hie
To me, old age is always fifteen years older than / am. 
______________________________________Bernard Baruch
To me, Bernard Baruch is always fifteen years younger than 
old age.
A brain is known by its fruits.H.G. Wells
So are many universities.
It doesn't matter who you love or how you love but that you 
love._____________________________________Rod McKuen
It doesn't matter when you love or where you love or if you 
love or why you love, as long as you've done your homework.
The mind is an iceberg  it floats with only one-seventh of its 
bulk above water._____________________________Sig Freud
Harrisburg is also an iceberg. It floats with only one-seventh 
of its bulk above water.
A friendship founded on business is better than a business 
founded on friendship._______________John D. Rockefeller
But a friend who's business is friendship is often a carrier of 
venereal disease.
The best lightning-rod for your protection 
is your own spine.Emerson
Which is great if you want your back to glow in the dark.
There are thousands hacking at the branches of evil to one 
who is striking at the root._______________ Thoreau
There are thousands of CMU maintenance men hacking up 
pianos to one who is playing them.
To play great music you must keep your eyes on a distant 
star.__________________________________Yehudi Menuhin
To hear great music, sometimes you have to be spaced out 
also.
Fish, to taste right, must swim three times  in water, in 
butter and in wine.________________________Polish proverb
Fish, to taste even better, should be killed first.
Man is what he believes.Chekhov
Vodka is the aunt of wine.Russian proverb
I believe in abortion ... does that mean that I am an abortion?
What is now proved was only once imagined.Blake
But what is now imagined is usually lewd or disgusting or 
violent.
/ am not afraid of tomorrow, for / have seen yesterday, and 
/ love today.____________________________________White
What I am afraid of is a week from next Tuesday. I have a 
term paper, two tests, and I have to pay my roommate the 40 
bucks I owe him by then.
Truth has no special time of its own.
Milk is the third cousin of orange juice.
Tang is related by marriage to carnation instant breakfast.
Water is just the looser sister of ice.
Ask not what your country can do for you  ask what you 
can do for your country. __________________J.F.K.
Dear U.S.A.,
Can I get you a cup of tea? Do you want to go to the zoo?
Can...No....No....don't do anything for me. Can I treat you to 
a salt water taffy?
All of our ideas come from the natural world: Trees equal 
umbrellas. ________________________________Stevens
Rocks equal bullets. Forests equal trash dumps. 4+3=7.
It is often easier to fight for one's principles than to live 
up to them._________________________________Stevenson
But it's easiest to simply have no principles.
^The finger of God never leaves identical fingerprints. Leo
But the fingerprints of God come right off with Lemon 
Pledge and a little bit of muscle.
The merely well-informed man is the most useless bore on 
god's earth. Alfred North Whitehead
But the well-formed woman is a useful bearer on man's earth. Except today there a lot more queens.
Schweitzer
All the prime time is taken up by comedies, and police 
shows. There's no room for truth in daytime programming... 
what with the soaps, and game shows. Late night is Tom 
Snyder and the tonight show and movies. There just isn't any 
room for truth.
Education is a social process... education is growth... 
Education is not preparation for life; education is life itself. 
______________________________________________Dewey
Education is a four year hassle ... education is expensive. 
Education is not preparation for debt. Education is debt 
itself.
We boil at different degrees. 
Even those of us who are frigid.
Emerson
The chess board is the world.Thomas Huxley
anuuruuy

---------------------------------------------------

page 14  TARTAN  January 25, 1977
C
"EVERY TOWN HAS IT'S FOOL"
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 11
" YOU DON'T HA VE TO BE PRETTY TO BE 
CHARMING. He answered. The sack still re
mained closed.
"Charming? You say this animal is charming? 
We all know that she's lived with wolves since 
birth. I don't know any charming wolves, Klauser. 
Now open up and let's see. THE MIRROR 
FOOLS NONE BUT THE UGL Y."
Klauser unhappily opened the bag. I'll regret 
this. "He muttered.
"A WISE MAN KNOWS WHAT HE SA YS. A 
FOOL SA YS WHA T HE KNOWS." She answered, 
as out of the bag stepped Rachel. . .plump and 
plain and pregnant.
"Get out of here, Klauser." Carmela, yelled. 
"Gee. GIVE A PIG A CHAIR AND SHE'LL 
WANT THE TABLE."
"But she's been a good daughter, and A GOOD 
DAUGHTER MAKES A GOOD DA UGH TERINLAW\" Klauser pleaded.
"There's not a man in this town that will marry 
a pregnant girl, Klauser. MARRIED IN A HUR
RY. STUCK FOR GOOD." She opened the door 
for Rachel and Klauser to leave. "Do you think, 
as matchmaker, I could fix this girl up with any
one? WHEN THE BRIDE IS EXPECTING, THE 
WEDDING GUESTS LOOK AW A Y."
"It's hard to notice, though." Klauser retorted.
"WHEN IT COMES TO ONE'S CHILDREN, 
EVERYONE IS BLIND! Who's the father, Klaus
er?"
o
"There is no father. "Plump, pregnant, plain, 
mysterious Rachel spoke for the first time.
"Then who is the baby? The Messiah?" The 
matchmaker asked, unkindly.
Klauser straightened up his hump. "We're not 
sure. AT NIGHT ALL COWS ARE BLACK."
"Now what's that mean Klauser?" He was
dSkBCl ' *
"NOT ALL TROUBLES COME FROM 
HE A VEN" was his answer." but I'll call the townproverb-writer in the morning if you'd like a def
inition."
"That tells me alot. But everyone knows. . . 
THE TRUTH MAY WALK AROUND NAKED. 
THE LIE HAS TO BE CLOTHED." Carmela 
softened up. "Speak to me. TRUTH IS THE 
SAFEST LIE."
"THE OX IS NOT AWARE OF ITS 
STRENGTHS!" Klauser mumbled. Even as he 
said it, he was puzzled himself about the meaning.
"Klauser, you're talking strangely. I should ask 
Rachel. For after all, THE CAT KNOWS WHOSE 
MEAT SHE ATE."
Just then, Carmela saw Febowtich, the townterror, with a minor in town-troublemaker, peer
ing into the window of her matchmaking shop.
"OH. WHAT A FOOL CAN SPOIL, TEN WISE 
MEN CANNOT REPAIR." She moaned, as she 
dragged the boy into her office. "EASY LOVE. 
HEAVY DAMAGES. How could you do this to 
the poor girl, Febowitch?"
Febowitch knew that his crime had been dis
covered by the clever matchmaker, so he boast
fully sneered, "IF YOU'RE GOING TO DO 
SOMETHING WRONG, ENJOY IT\"
Carmella remained motionless for a few min
utes, as the town-hunchback, town-mystery, and 
town-terror waited for her verdict. Then she said, 
"THE BEST HORSE NEEDS A WHIP, THE 
WISEST MAN ADVICE, AND THE CHASTEST 
WOMAN A MAN. Do all three of you realize you 
will be subject to the ridicule of all of the towns
people as soon as the town-ridiculist gets word?"
Klauser spoke for the three of them. "THE 
MASSES A RE ASSES."
Carmella looked from Klauser to Febowitch.
THE GRILLE
LUNCHEON SPECIALS
THIS WEEK
11:00 AM-2:00 PM
TARTAN Grill Specials
WEDNESDAY 26th
Chili Dog, Medium Soft Drink..............50
THURSDAY 27th
TARTAN Burger, Fries, Mdeium 
Soft drink ............................................ 1.04
FRIDAY 28th
Tuna Salad Sandwich - Soup of
the day. Medium soft drink..................99
MONDAY 31st
Triple Decker, Fries, Medium soft 
drink...................................................... 1.08
TUESDAY 1st
Big "O" Medium soft drink..................90
America^ largest printer has a career opportunity for you.
M.
Mr. Jcrrv Jungles and Mr. Irv Bernstein, 
Engineering Managers, will be on campus 
February 9 to interview candidates for 
career opportunities in engineering 
and manufacturing.
Consult your Placement Office
for job descriptions, or write Phil Dutton,
2223 King Drive, Chicago 60616.
for information in other career fields.
You already know us by some of the products we print.
Magazines: I I\ll M WSWI I k. II S M US & UORI I) HI PORI. IUISIM SS VVI I k. 
HARVARD IUISIM SS Rl V II \\ SK)R IS II I IIS I RAII I). PI OPI I I VMM V CIRC I I . I SQIIIRI 
Cl AMOUR. M ADI VIOISI I I I . Nl U YORkl R. SC II N III 1C AMI RICAN. I ARM ICHIRN VI : 
Books: I NCYCI OP VI 1)1 A RRIIAWIC V.VVORI I) RCX)k. R(X)k Ol k\()VVI I IX.I .
DUN & RRADS I Rl I I S IANDARI) AND PCX)R. Ol I 1C IAI AIRI INI CUIDI 
Catalogs: SI ARS. I C PI NNI V. RADIO SHACK. UTS 11 R.N All 1C)
Telephone Directories: Ni VV YORK. CHICAGO. PI III ADI I PIIIA. .mdoihor major i iiit-s. 
Annual Reports: /I N| III UNION PVC II IC.HIC.ASMI AM)Oil ..imloih<rs.
R.R. DONNELLEY & SONS COMPANY
Sales: SS7S million \et Incorno: S4) million 12 plants sales oil ices I I.SfNI employees

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1977  TARTAN  page 15
"Keep quiet, Klauser. This is your fault anyway. 
THE APPLE DOESN'T FALL FAR FROM THE 
TREE. And as for you Febowitch THE PIG 
SNATCHES THE BEST APPLE."
Febowitch defended himself. "I love her 
ugliness; your ugliness."
"FOR A LITTLE LOVE YOU PAY ALL 
YOUR LIFE." Carmela said, ignoring his cutting 
remark to her appearance. "But I'll make your 
match because I have faith in both of you, and 
besides THE RIGHT MATE COMES WITH THE 
FIRST DATE."
Everyone shook hands, on the agreement ex
cept for Rachel and Febowitch, who apparently 
knew each other.
Six weeks later, in her seventh month, Rachel 
was married to Febowitch by Rabbi Kellermong, 
the town-Rabbi. It was a small ceremony with a 
few invited guests and the town-old women gos
sips NO. 1, 2, 4, 6, 11. The Rabbi chuckled when 
he said "You may kiss the bride." and then laugh
ed when he said, "WHEN THE SIN IS SWEET, 
THE REPENTANCE IS NOT BITTER, but in 
future remember. . .YOU ARE BETTER 
FRIENDS AT A DISTANCE."
Klauser, the proud soon-to-be-papa spoke 
to Febowitch after the ceremony, and his major 
complaint was about Febowitch's bad timing.
r"IF DONE AT THE RIGHT TIME, IT IS NOT 
A SIN."
Two months later,.the child was born.
If was named Proverbish. The town-wolf.i
DON'T LETTGS
Remember those fun-filled Friday 
afternoons at T.G.I.F.? 
Well 
in order for T.G. to continue 
We need a new chairperson immediately!!! 
Anyone interested in this 
wonderfully rewarding position, 
please leave your name and 
where you can be reached 
at the SKI BO INFO DESKThank You
ab concerts presents
MA YNARD FERGUSON
IN CONCERT
Friday, February 11, 8:00 P.M
CARNEGIE MUSIC HALLReserved Seating
Tickets: $4.00 with student I.D. 
$6.00 without
Tickets available at 
SKIBO INFO DESK

---------------------------------------------------

------TTTTTTTTnniimintimtttfftfiminntiii
tfi
>
<
7)
O
O
3
K)
O
O3 S c o
09 ?O 7 
O* oo3 a
o?
>
<
Q5"
2
t/> "
2 > 
09 "*o :
TI 
o  
o
o
0
m
50
<
3 S
i -n^  
g m
o
3
Oo
cooo7T
O
en
O
K3
O
OO
00OO*
Ooo
73mocr
>70
U
7D
n
V
K)
OOo
woo7T
O
V>
O
o
o
O.
V 
maoo o
ao o
JT
O nv Z 
<o
o 7 o O
O
a.
(/><D
<#*
<D
TI
fi
n
5 
i
o
3
O 
fi
C 
M Uc r co h 
o U1
zm
s
ozz
O
n
O
c
^ z
ti
o
o
a
</>
m
m09
C
>
*J
-<
o <
(/>
>
<
i
i
i
iiHHiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiHiNiiitiiiniiiiiiHiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiKiiiiiiiiintiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimuiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiimiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiniiiiiiif
UP7P7U7U7P7P777PUUUPUUUUUUUP7UUUPU77U7UU7UPPPUPU77U7"UU7PP7PP77P7PUUUPPPU7UP77PP7UUP77PUUU7UP77PU7UUUU7PPU7U77UP7UUU7U

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1977  TARTAN  page 17
* TURRENTINE IS SMOTHERED IN DISCO
by David C. Lucas
One prominent jazz musician from Pitts
burgh is Stanley Turrentine. The son of a 
prominent saxophonist (from the Savoy 
Sultans band) Stanley played with the eny sembles of Ray Charles, Tadd Dameron, 
Earl Bostic and Max Roach during the 
1950s. During the sixties and seventies 
Turrentine released solo albums on the 
Prestige and CTI labels. In the past two 
years, hes recorded five albums on Fantasy 
Records, culminating in the recent release 
of The Man With the Sad Face.
In reviewing this album, it is impossible 
to judge the songs on the basis of Turrentines first album arranged by veteran Mo
town studio man David Van De Pitte. As 
could be expected, the Motown sound 
shows through.
Half of the albums cuts are remakes of 
recent disco hits. Covering hit tunes has 
always been a risky thing to do. The mind 
of the listener tends to grope for the vocal 
and instrumental nuances which made the 
f record a hit in the first place. Unless the 
new version presents a radical change or 
needed improvement, the remake sounds 
like mishmash.
This happens on several of the songs on 
The Man With the Sad Face. In Mighty 
High, which was a success for disco-gospel 
group The Mighty Clouds of Joy, not even 
Turrentines chattering sax lead can com
pensate for the absence of the Mighty 
Clouds gravelly gospel voices. Love Hang
over gets an intro of plucked violin strings 
so asinine that one expects the inclusion of 
Alvin and the Chipmunks singing If I Had 
A Japanese Banana. Stanley gets lost be
hind the much-too-studied disco arrange
ment and synthesizer twangings. Female 
vocalists chip in with some aahs and 
random lyrics but the girls cant carry out 
the frivolous funk which made Love Hang
over turn to gold for Diana Ross. On You 11 
Never Find Another Love Like Mine, 
(which was a hit for Lou Rawls,) Turren
tine gives us a smokey saz solo. Unfortunately, he is reduced to a contributing mu
sician instead of being the creative force 
behind this version. Marvin Gayes I Want 
You is broken down into structural bass, 
string and keyboard elements, allowing 
Stanleys full-bodied sax playing to rise 
deliciously to the top. Vibes and an almost 
human sounding synthesizer adorn this 
piece. This song is the best adaptation of 
the disco numbers. Santanas latin-rock 
classic Evil Ways begins the album. It is 
given a classy big band sound. Turrentine 
carries the vocal lines of the arrangement 
with his saxophone well enough that one 
forgets that there ever were words. The 
sophisticated string and sassy horn give it 
a movie soundtrack feeling.
From the melting bass intro, to its 
satisfied fade-out, Ligia demonstrates 
Turrentines mastery of the sexophone 
(sic). This Antonio Carlos Jobim love 
theme conjures up the slow motion, vaselined (the camera lens, not the actors) 
scenes we see in many adult films. Earlier 
jazz influences are strong here in the guitar, 
cymbal and acoustical bass foundation up
on which the brass and strings are played.
The strongest jazz feeling of the album 
comes from a cut written by Tadd Damer
on, Whatever Posessd Me. A jazz quartet 
sound comes from the piano, sax, drum 
and bass arrangement. The melody is stated 
and then repeated a second time, bouncily. 
Most noteable are the saxophone solos (of 
course) and Van De Pittes orchestration.
The title cut of The Man With the Sad 
Face evokes images of neon lights, taxi 
cabs and street cafes at night. It is brash 
and exciting, albeit the teensiest bit over
done. I ts interest lies in the overlapping 
of superb studio music with a chic string 
arrangement.
This album proves that Stanley Turren
tines strength is in the playing of quartettype jazz, flowing under sophisticated or
chestration and not in disco remakes where 
his playing is smothered.
SPRING CONCERTS SET
by Jeanne Kranvanja
The AB Concert Planning Committee 
has one wall of its office postered with 
glossies of performers who have, in recent 
years, given concerts at CMU. Membership 
in this diverse gallery ranges from the re
latively unknown to the nationally pro
minent and, no matter what your musical 
taste, chances are it is represented. In any 
case, the photos reflect committee efforts 
to, as head David Schatz summarizes, put 
on as many concerts as we can to appeal to 
as many students as we can.
The committee contends with many 
problems, one of the larger ones being 
money. Those who complain about ticket 
prices, for example, might stop and consid
er the fact that hall rental, ads and other 
necessary expenditures can swell the cost 
of a concert to almost twice the perform
ers fee. Every step must be taken to uti
lize funds to their fullest extent, and when 
arvopportunity to cut comers on expenses 
comes along, it cannot be overlooked. One 
such instance was the Day In The Park 
with David Bromberg last fall. The show, 
done in conjunction with Pitt, would have 
been impossible for CMU to put on as a 
solo effort. Another example of an econ
omy move is booking an act that will al
ready be in the vicinity on the schedule 
concert date. Under these circumstances, 
the performers travel expenses would be 
less and the appearance fee would be cut.
Still, the fixed budget can only extend
SORTING OUT HISS
by Steve Birke
At first, I was going to side with Alger 
Hiss because he was everything Whittaker 
Chambers was not; decent, likeable, a gold
en boy making a name for himself in public 
life, a man of education, good looks, and a 
law degree. Then someone explained that 
this was bunk because a decent, likeable, 
golden boy doesnt turn over secret docu
ments to a Communist agent.
So I decided to side with Whittaker 
Chambers because he had the courage to 
abandon Communism, knowing that the 
Party would kill him, if it could, as punish
ment for his desertion. Then a psychiatrist 
explained that this courage bit was bunk 
because in suffering from a mental illness 
known as psychopathic personality, Cham
bers was aware of what he was doing, but 
had no idea why he was doing anything.
So I decided to side with Hiss because 
he didnt type, on his old Woodstock typewriter, the secret pumpkin papers that 
Chambers said were handed to him. Then 
document experts who had been given sam
ples of Hiss old work explained that this 
was bunk because huge enlargements of 
portions of each paper showed that all the 
papers were typed on the same machine.
They were probably right (Nixon al
ways produced evidence to support this 
judgments). So I decided to side with 
Whittaker Chambers because I believed in 
the trial by jury system that had found 
Hiss guilty of perjury. Then a New York 
Times article explained that this was bunk 
because two of the jurors who had convict
ed Hiss had relatives working for the FBI. 
The bureau had noted during the trial that 
they wanted this kept quiet.
So I decided to side with somebody, 
anyhow. Its a moral obligation. Come 
Wednesday, Ill be in Skibo sorting out the 
bunk.
r.,  * I* I ** I. ^ -i-,  -of tne Activities Board concert committee.
so far. In terms of the shows they would 
like to present, Schatz admits that money 
is the biggest constraint. However, while 
it may be impossible to afford certain pop
ular rock acts, which are generally higher 
priced, every attempt is made to bring in 
new talent as well as outstanding perform
ers in such fields as bluegrass, folk and jazz.
An upcoming concert on Friday, Feb
ruary 11 at Carnegie Music Hall is one ex
ample of such programming. The first of 
three concerts scheduled for the spring 
term, the show will feature jazz homman 
Maynard Ferguson. He has worked with 
such big band leaders as Stan Kenton and 
Jimmy Dorsey and has helped to showcase 
such talents as Slide Hampton and Chick 
Corea. Ferguson is, as one critic'put it, 
One old timer who refuses to fade with 
the past. By incorporating aspects of 
rock, disco and R & B into his jazz base, 
Ferguson creates an excitement that has 
enabled him to develop a considerable fol
lowing among young audiences. Along with 
the innovation he brings to his music, crit
ics praise the fact that Ferguson has assem
bled an impressive band behind him, and
* tfctmfntefid* hirt *fbt tettfrtg1 thtfse ititrtfctatt*
display their talents in more than just a 
background capacity.
Following its presentation of Maynard 
Ferguson, the Activities Board is planning a 
March 18 show featuring violinist Papa 
John Creach. A Beaver Falls native, Creach 
has had a varied career beginning with sym
phony training and, later on, leading to as
sociations with such groups as Jefferson 
Airplane and Hot Tuna. Climaxing the 
years programming, the Concert Commit
tee is planning a show for either April 21 
or 22 during Spring Carnival. Although no 
decisions have yet been made as to who 
will appear, Schatz promises it will be a 
major act.
Perhaps the most important thing to re
member about the AB concerts is that ev
eryone has the chance to participate in the 
decision making. Periodic meetings are held 
to discuss finances and promotion as well 
as the selection of talent. New members are 
welcome to attend the meetings, and any
one interested can inquire at the informa
tion desk as to times and dates. Certainly, 
with most other organizations, student in
put is the determining factor to the com---------------------------------------------------

EVENTSART
For the first time in 18 years the natio
nally known Three Rivers Arts Festival of 
Pittsburgh, Pa., has lifted geographical res
trictions on art entries for 1977.
Any artist, 18 years and over, regardless 
of residence, is invited to enter paintings, 
prints, drawings, sculpture, crafts or photo
graphs in the 1977 Festival.
The Festival will be held May 27 
through June 5 in the heart of downtown 
Pittsburgh, Gateway Center. The Festival* 
is' sponsored by Carnegie Institute and 
grounds are courtesy of the Equitable Life 
Assurance Society of the United States.
Artists will be screened by slides repre
sentative of their work. The screening 
committee will be composed of the follow
ing jurors: Lloyd E. Herman, Director,
Renwick Gallery, Smithsonian Institution 
and Brian N. Rushton, Head of Publica
tions and Marketing Services, Brooklyn 
Museum.
Cash awards totalling $3000 will be 
awarded at the discretion of the jurors. 
Purchase awards up to $1000 will be made 
by Pittsburgh corporations throughout the 
ten days of the Festival.
Entry forms with full details on Festival 
rules, slides, etc. are now available. Please 
send a return address and 24 cents in 
stamps to Three Rivers Arts Festival, 4'
Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15213. 
Completed forms and slides must be re
turned. postmarked no later than April 1, 
J977.
The Three Rivers Arts Festival is a 10 
day celebration of the arts, all the arts.
Set against a backdrop of skyscrapers, 
the Festival splashes across 10 acres of 
plaza areas, exhibiting all types of arts and 
crafts and offering continuous performan
ces of music, theater and dance. In one
corner of the Festival, art activities and 
performances are geared for young people, 
while people of all ages are invited to par
ticipate in craft, theater and dance work
shops.
It is a Festival for all people, for fun 
and for free.
The Forbes Street Gallery presents an exhi
bition of various media by senior art stu
dents Wendy Gold and Theresa Walsh. The 
show runs from Jan. 25-30. Opening: Tues
day, Jan. 25 from 7-9:30 p.m. Open to the 
public!MUSIC
The authentic foot-tapping Dixieland jazz 
of the Preservation Hall Jazz Band enlivens 
Heinz Hall for one performance only on 
Sunday, March 6 at 8 p.m.
The band which is now heralded as the best 
Dixieland group in the world takes its 
name from its home in New Orleans. Pres
ervation Hall was built as a private home in 
1750 and has been used as a tavern, an art 
gallery, and as a home by several famous 
people. Sandra and Allan Jaffe of Pottsville. Pa., took it over in 1961 to operate as 
a business and also assure the continuance 
of its tradition as a club for its renowned 
musicians.
Tickets for Preservation Hall Jazz Band are 
on sale at the Heinz Hall box office and at 
ticket counters in Kaufmanns, Homes, 
Gimbels and Sears. For group discounts 
contact Mrs. Kathy Meyer. (412) 281-8185THEATRE
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre will 
present OUT CRY, by Tennessee Williams, 
Thursdays through Sundays, January 20 
through February 27. at 8:30 p.m.
S
FOOD SERVICE SPECIAL EVENT 
VEGETARIAN BUFFET 
5:00 - 7:00 p.m., KILTIE COFFEE HOUSE 
Cream of Asparagus Soup
*******
SALAD
ASSORTED GREENS 
BEAN SPROUTS 
CHIC PEAS 
TOMATO WEDGES 
RELISHES
*******
MUSHROOM STROGANOFF 
WESTERN OMELETTE 
SPINACH LASAGNA
*******
BAKED ACORN SQUASH WITH WALNUTS 
RATATOUILLE 
MIXED RICE
*******
Rhubarb Pie 
*******
Pumpernickel Bread, Butter
THURSDAY, JANUARY 27th 
FREE TO CONTRACT HOLDERS OR $2.75 CASH 
BY RESERVATION ONLY, CALL EXT. 653 or 654 
RESERVATIONS CLOSE 5:00 P.M. JAN. 26
OUT CR Y is one of Tennessee Williams 
most recent plays, showing a new direction 
in the evolution of this great American 
playwright. Originally entitled THE TWO 
CHARACTER PLAY, OUT CRY is the 
story of a brother and sister, both of whom 
are actors, who have been mysteriously 
placed in an unknown theatre before an 
unknown audience. Their conflicts arise as 
they find themselves incapable of dealingr
with each other and with their audience. 
The play offers a unique relationship be
tween actor and audience, which is why 
the highly experimental Lab Theatre Com
pany has found the piece so appealing.
The production has been conceived and di
rected by Bill Royston. and will be per
formed by Bingo OMalley and Caryl Opshinsky.
continued on page 20
C/D fcn
Z<
QCOZ<Jo,<
COocUJ><
CL
o
~3z<00
cn ( o < 
> 
< oUJCL
CO
COt-(/)
TALENT SEARCH 77
We'd Like To Discover You!
Tech Interviews 1:00, Auditions 2:00
YOUNGSTOWN AREA WED., FEB. 2 
HOLIDAY INN 
9694 MAHONING - NORTH JACKSON
PITTSBURGH AREATHURS., FEB 3 
HOWARD JOHNSONS MOTOR LODGE 
TPK. EXIT 6/RT. 22  MONROEVILLE
AKRON/CLEVELAND AREA - FRI.. FEB. 4 
BROWN DERBY 1NN 
EXIT 12/RT 8  HUDSON
COLUMBUS AREA  SUN., FEB. 6 
SHERATON MOTOR INN NORTH 
RT. 161/1-71-COLUMBUS
ALSO AT CEDAR POINT 
SAT., FEB. 5, SUN., FEB 13
FOR OTHER AUDITION SITES 
AND FURTHER INFORMATION 
CONTACT 
LIVE ENTERTAINMENT DEPT. 
CEDAR POINT, INC. 
SANDUSKY, OHIO 44870 
, 419 626 0830
(Open only to registered college students 
and graduating high school seniors)
O>znmJOCO
ro
>CO
CO
52
>-<mm
CO
oor~m
J2
CO
>
O'
>z
CO
SINGERStCHNICIANSTaking MCAT or DAT in April?
Call Us Tomorrow. You'll Be Glad You Did!
Revised for the New MCAT!
Ask for Our Free Self Evaluation and Information Booklet 
Tuition: $1 40, plus $20 Refundable Deposit for Materials,
28 Hours, Professional Staff, Free Repeats, Oakland Location!
West Penn MC AT/D AT Review Course 
(412) 343-4441
240 WOODHAVEN DRIVE, PITTSBURGH, PA. 15228 
The Same Course Given Nationwide to Hundreds Every Year!
for the weekend.
per day plus 10 
per mile
Monte Carlo or similar car
National s low weekend rate makes it easy to drive home, to the mountains 
or wherever Non-discountable rate available Friday noon to Monday npofi 
You pay for the gas you use, and return car to renting location Call tor 
reservations today: '
4621 Forbes Ave. (Oakland) 682-1444
550 Grant Street 261-5500
Greater Pittsburgh Airport 262-2312
We feature GM cars.
' 'Rate sublet.to change without.notice
National Car Rental

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1977 - TARTAN - page 19
Haw T* U AM ARTS ST
A
OR. WttO I^FEDS Ytt' CotLfGf oF FlAlf ARTS?J
RBNlOUNlCE ALL VJORLbLy 
GOODS Entrto CLOTHlNlG,
5,,19 7Volme Nb4,no9 oV4Cg 
i-MUvsti 5Ph v 
3c5i P5 5d35p33c8p_ 
\ bePRW/KUOti.
*t /v\A Y 
HURT FOR 
* WHILE-- 
NLy Ttte
TNS7V 7,
FouMbS OR 
so/'/
r '
' ACCESSORIES
AltAho ugecdwa
THAT yovj WEAR 
TELL-TALE SPATE RlMGS 
pj OF P/WNT, CLAY,
cHarco/kl, ^hat have 
yoU/ TO RH-lNiFORCE 
>OU \/v\A6E AS A 
oOc^zar'z yuTATR OME\MVVD CARES HOT A VMH.T
&
F LOUR
XXX
rfsfskfr in io 
CMU,ecdac c, dvypnAwdi 
cbdc dmed ,. rAysTERy
AMt> DECADENCE HELE>
So DEARLy By cbg 
Arn BTDDTioofxrS
udd; 8e dubwgzgFgdU,a( d UdUgey 
Tz;fry )50g bgdA SACKCLOTH R)R 
f'HJfODAf'JE GAR.
ADDEb ETFECT OLD 
PM NT CAMS CAM 8E 
SUBSTITUTED fR GUCCI
7k,o7
EMcV KjI>KJc .JcIM~HF H..JHcH~DJS>
J)
MATDRo\jJM\Nl6 W A 
ONty WILL you IMPRESS 
you 1A\GHT EV/EN udcub 
bcc0g (bmc0eye1
on tin uesbt oid 
youR oldwh td
frr tin gaArfA 
BEDr,"T B2py .D
gbwjwcw,a ,. dRECENTiy DISCOVERED
decK(c Fb, -wMxD2fry nrAPiB BirR
BxsonADBfo B(mub 
Ao ACCIbetTTALLy
of gesso), not
I /
youR FRIEM^S, 
UP oN /v
BE A TREND-setter1 
if EVERyorOE is \MEAR\fJG 
short HaiR, let yours 
GKOvk) VO I LI} ? (AMD Vice-VEKA^) 
STOP TRiMMlMe THOSE MOSt
EAR HAlRS/ BRA 15IAL AMb
IF PoVBLE' AKib IF OTHERS OReR 
SuRGtRS ANb rR\ES fcr THE TARTAR
rw: you 1, TrPdFJKS (uegd
FR, VOGuRT ? GRCUS ABOUT THE" 
LACfc; qF Bean! SPROUTS IM TH(t SaL Ai' ' I
THiS ABo\iE dv
NEVER Be seeN
vmiTHout A sketchbook 
or PoRT pol vo  /v\fTy 
Cu othervmvse-/ if'N 
curious persons ASK 
FER. A PEE'K, GA2E 
HEAVENWARD <i REPLy 
PAiNEULLy : "BUT" 
you LCNY56 PX3XcS
T UHDERSTAH ''
(?)CONGRATULATIONS/ IH you
have completed au of 
TH E PRECE E> I MC STE PS,
you R\A y NOW DON
THAT EVER-USTIWG 
syA\BOU OF 
ARTISTIC SE^SlTIVir/
AN' D1.5TIMCTIOK/   
AM'S ci;/, A S ETET/
C OH, (MClDEWTALLy
THIS
A B-R-O-S-H.
ARE MOVKj R^AI>y J.
TO, UH, PAINT. }

---------------------------------------------------

continued from page 18
The Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre is lo
cated at 3300 Fifth Avenue (corner of 
Fifth and Craft), Oakland. Seating is limit
ed, and reservations can be made by calling 
621-2876.
Composer Meredith Willson, whose smash 
hit Broadway musical The Music Man plays 
in Heinz Hall for two shows on Saturday, 
February 12, drew upon his boyhood ex
periences in a small Iowa town as the in
spiration for this rousing yet nostalgic pro
trait of America in 1912.
Tickets are on sale now at the Heinz 
Hall box office and area department stores, 
with generous group discounts available by 
phoning Mrs. Kathy Meyer at (412) 281 - 
8185.The Young Americans performing the 76 trombones number in The Music Man.
Save $10.00 to $59.90 if you act now.
If youve been thinking about getting a programmable, Txas Instruments has a special offer for youNOW
SR-56 $109.95*
e p3 Co56 o5 e570paVO,p 1,Vap 03,p 7o,73,o6i0 6To61 
o,1i .0ir0o??oO,p6Tp5 6TV1 V1 6Tp i5p i0 i3.
Therere 74 preprogrammed functions and opera
tions. And it has AOS, Tls unique algebraic operating 
system, the underlying reason an SR-56 is so power
ful. It'll let you handle problems with as many as 
9 sets of parentheses. Talk about memory. An SR-56 
has 10 (11 if you count the T-registered.). And you can 
do arithmetic with all of them.
Chances are youll soon discover how really easy 
it is to program. An SR-56 has 100 steps. Six logical 
decision functions. Four levels of subroutines. Dec
rement and skip on zero. Compare a test register 
with the display to make a conditional branch. And 
this is just the beginning.
Think about it. Can you really afford to put off get
ting your SR-56, now?
SR-52 $299.95*
e i3 Co56 6Tp 7i?.36p0-,Vkp .iCp0 i o 7o0a .0i
r0o??oO,p 6Tp5 7Tii1p 6TV1 i5p.
Techniques like optimization, iteration, data reduc
tion, what-if matrices, mathematical modeling, need 
not tie upyour mind or your time.
But learning to use it is a hassle, you say. Not true. 
Prerecorded programs are gathered into software 
libraries: Electrical Engineering. Math. Statistics. 
Finance. All you need do is load a mag card, press a 
few keys and youll get answers that previously 
required a computer.
You can make your own programs just as easily. 
In just a couple of hours youll begin to 
prove what a powerful asset you haveright at your fingertips.
And theres not a better time to get an 
SR-52 than right now.
,-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------c->
| Texas Instruments will rebate $10.00 of your original SR-56 purchase price when |
you: (1) return this comptetad coupon including serial number (2) along with your 
| completed SR-56 customer Information card (packed in box) and (3) a dated copy |
. of proof of your purchase, verifying purchase between Jan. land March 31,1977. .
P. 0. Bn 1tlt
| Name
. A/VI r mu---------------------------- 1 1
1 City Stali
' SR-56 S*W No(from back of calculator) ^
1 Please allow 30 days for rebate.1 1
Offer voU when pmMbM by law. Good In ContfewnM U S only.
Electrical Engineering. Statistics. Math Finance. Choose any two and (1) return |
this completed coupon including serial number along with (2) your completed
SR-52 serialized customer information card (packed in box) and (3) a dated copy |
of proof of your purchase, verifying purchase between Jan 20 and March 31,1977.
SR-52 tree software library offerP. 0. Boi 1211 IRtchartfaoii, Tuas 75060
Name__________________________________________________________I
Address________________________________________________________ |
City___________________.State.-Zip.
SR-52 Serial No______
_______Math _
Texas Instruments reserves the right to substitute software libraries of equal value, 
based upon availability. Pletso allow 30 days for delivery
. Statistics
. (from back of calculator) ,
Finance _______EE I
.0&V?a ratti price
Folir HerAmcaoeAr
t*771INCORPORATED65561
MISC.
The Lovelace Theater, in its premiere sea
son opening February 19 in the Museum of 
Art Theater at Carnegie Institute, will 
blend puppet theater with music and other 
multi-media effects  balancing fantasy 
with the truth in human situations.
David Vissers enticingly new and live
ly presentation Ragtime and All That 
Jazz, including a sequence of jazz idioms 
to underline social changes, is designed to 
entertain and stretch the imaginations' 
of both adults and (school-age) youngsters.
Ragtime, including a disco Cinder
ella vignette which definitely updates the 
beloved fairytale, will play for seven weekends'in the Carnegie Institutes new theater.
Tickets for Ragtime and the second 
Lovelace puppet-theater production at Car
negie this spring, a new stage adaptation of 
Molieres witty, satiric Loves the Best 
Doctor, opening April 16, are available 
now via discounted series subscriptionstotal subscription price to enjoy both plays 
only $4. Subscription information is avail
able by phoning 2614835.
The McGrail Opera, Inc. will perform 
Gounods Faust at Synod Hall, Oakland, 
Thursday and Saturday, February 3 and 5, 
at 8:15 p.m.
Tickets are available at Synod Hall on the 
nights of perfomances, February 3 and 5, 
or by contacting McGrail Opera, 711 Penn 
Avenue, 281-6874.
RENAISSANCE AND BAROQUE SOCI
ETY OF PITTSBURGH on Feb. 5 will pre
sent Peter Wolf, harpsichord, in keyboard 
music of the Baroque era at 8:30 p.m. at 
Winchester-Thurston Auditorium, Morewood and Ellsworth, Shadyside. 731-3944.
The Pittsburgh Opera will present 
Bedrich Smetanas world-recognized comic 
masterpiece, The Bartered Bride, on Janu
ary 27 and 29 at Heinz Hall at 8:15 p.m. 
This best of Smetanas eight operas is truly 
a classical work that depicts the Czech 
national spirit. The music dispenses joy 
pure and unsophisticated and speaks warm
ly from the heart.
This light-hearted and frolicsome pro
duction will be followed by Faust on 
March 10 and 12, Cosi Fan Tutte on March 
31 and April 2 and Rigoletto on April 21, 
and 23.
Information and ticket reservations can 
be obtained by calling the Pittsburgh Opera 
at 281-0912.
T~H c
uhfO EuM:B
sPB cs wuPM8 
.,,F
FOOD SERVICE HOT LINE TO THE DIRECTOR EVERY MONDAY 5 TO 6 P.M. EXT. 653 or 654
arc
ilMUmillUimUillllllimUIHMttHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIHHIflHIUIIIWIIMWmiHfiinttHIIUIIII
H. lii.tct i.vm .rr.t.cv (I
;; iiiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiMiiiiiiuimiiimtmifHMNtnittiitiiiM*
*.l It;)

---------------------------------------------------

SPORTS FIRED UP TARTANS IN PAC LEAD
by Bob Firm
Coach Dave Maloneys Carnegie-Mellon 
roundballers took a gigantic step towards 
capturing the Presidents Athletic Confer
ence crown and advancing to the NCAA
0 playoffs by snapping visiting Hirams 17 
game PAC win streak in a convincing 82- 
65 fashion. The victory extended CMUs 
, win streak to seven, thus tying the school 
record of consecutive triumphs set back 
in 1931-32.
The overflow crowd at old Skibo Gym 
had the place rocking from the opening 
tipoff to the final buzzer. They were 
treated to probably one of the best games 
in Tartan basketball history.
After the game in the jubilant CMU 
locker room, three year old George 
Cookie Harvey, Jr. summed up the key 
to the game best when he said, Dad, you 
play good. in reference to the man that 
has turned Tartan hoop fortunes around, 
George Harvey.
The senior Harvey did what he does best 
and that is literally control the game. 
CMUs leading scorer connected on his first 
six attempts from the field and never broke 
stride after that. Harvey commented after 
the game, I was really psyched for this 
game because it meant a lot to us. Were 
really number one.
Spurred on by some of the best school 
spirit at Tech in many a year, the Tartans 
J played in a dominate style that they are 
easily capable of doing. CMU took the 
lead to stay early in the first half with a 
blitz that the Pittsburgh Steelers would 
be proud of.
The Tartans moved on top with a Larry 
DiCicco bucket with 13:48 remaining in 
the first half and then proceeded to outscore the Terriers 14-4 over the next five 
minutes. Harvey and Hirams Tony Bolden 
traded baskets before CMU ran off five 
consecutive hoops. The key during that 
stretch was the shot blocking of Les Harper 
as he thwarted three Hiram attempts with 
rejections and started Tartan fast breaks.
Greg Chambers hit from the comer, 
Harper took a nifty pass from Harvey 
underneath, Marty Costa canned a jumper 
off a break started by a Harper rejection, 
Harvey hit his sixth consecutive shot of 
the first half, and DiCicco stole a pass and 
drove in for an unmolested layup to put 
the Ohio school in a state of utter bewil
derment.
Hiram was in deep trouble as their bread 
and butter offense, the fast break, was 
non-existent. There is an old basketball 
t saying, You have to get the ball off the 
boards to run. Harper, Costa, and Di
Cicco dominated the glass at the right 
times to effectively stop the Terriers run 
and shoot game plan.
Hiram could not get closer than seven 
points after the Tartans spurt and the half 
ended with Tech on top, 40-32.
CMU picked up where they left off in
the second half. Harvey stole the ball and 
fed DiCicco for a layup. Then Harvey fired 
from the foul line for two and converted a 
three point play and the Tartans were off 
to the races again.
The Tartans, now alone atop the PAC 
standings, continued their first half perfor
mance of strong rebounding and excellent 
pressure defense for the entire second stan
za and built up margins as large as 20 
points in the final 20 minutes.
The game was well in hand when the 
Tartans went into the four-comers offense 
with five minutes to go in the game. Hiram 
felt the bitter sting of defeat with 37 se
conds left in the game when they got a 
dose of their own victors-spoils medi
cine.
Last year at Hiram, the Tartans were 
victims of a thorough defeat by the host 
Terriers and then had to listen to a cheer 
where the Hiram student body pointed at 
their team and yelled Winning team!! 
and at the Tartans and yelled Losing 
team!! The memory of that night stuck in 
the heads of the CMU team and one of 
their few supporters at the game, John 
Bielich.
After the Tartans had done some 
repaying on the basketball floor, it was 
time for Bielich and other loyal CMU 
followers to stick it in Hirams ear. During 
a Tartan timeout, planned for the team to 
savor the moment of triumph, Bielich led 
the same cheer that the Tartans had to hear 
on the road, but this time CMU got the 
enjoyment and Hiram had the long bus ride 
home.
The game also marked the return of 
senior Paul Hamerly to the Tartan lineup. 
The 69 GSIA student was out of action 
since the second game of the season due to 
a broken foot. His presence will certainly 
strengthen CMU.
Harvey led all scorers for the afternoon 
with his new CMU career high of 29. Three 
other Tartans found the range for double 
figures. DiCicco and Costa split 28 markers 
and Harper added 11. Harper and Costa 
each pulled down 10 rebounds for Tech.
Bolden was high point man for Hiram 
with 17. Ernie Pasqualone, the Terriers 
best offensive threat, was held to 16. Ted 
McDivitt scored 12 points and Ray Vaughn 
came off the bench to add 10.
It was a big week for Leapin' Les.
throws. Dudley Murphy connected from 
way outside and JC only trailed by three 
with a minute to play.
After the Tartans wound 30 seconds off 
the clock, Dea Brunzzo was again fouled. 
He connected on the first but missed the 
back end of a 1-1. John Carroll moved the 
ball quickly up the floor and Ken Rehmer 
hit to bring the Ohio school to within two, 
80-78.
CMU again went to the stall and again 
failed to take advantage of the free throws. 
Larry DiCicco missed on a 1-1 and the 
Blue Streaks had a chance to tie. Rehmer 
was the man of the moment as he canned 
a jumper with only four seconds showing 
on the clock to deadlock the contest at 
80s. CMU managed to get off a 30 foot 
attempt by Harvey at the buzzer that 
bounced off the back of the rim, causing 
the sparse home crowd to breathe a sigh of 
relief.
The Streaks displayed some of the 58%
shooting for the evening in the overtime as 
they drilled home five shots in a row. CMU 
countered each time with a bucket of their 
own. Harvey delivered twice, then DeaBrunzzo radared one from deep in the cor
ner, and DiCicco sneaked one inside.
After Harpers foul shots had tied the 
contest for the fifth time in overtime, John 
Carroll finally missed. Andy Krakowiak, 
a transfer student who was playing in only 
his second game for Carroll, was off range 
and Marty Costa hauled in the rebound. 
CMU used the four comers to perfection 
this time down the floor.
Tech ran the time down to under 20 
seconds when DiCicco drove the middle 
and found Harper all alone on the baseline 
for his memorable two-pointer.
The Tartans opened the game rather 
poorly as they lacked intensity through 
much of the first half. Krakowiak was 
devastating in the early going as he scored
continued on page twenty-threeKUMQUATS WIN TOURNEY
%\itr
pR2IP Harvey doing what he does best.
Les Harper shrugged off the pressure of 
crucial situations twice in overtime to play 
the hero role in Camegie-Mellons heartstopping 92-90 victory over host John Car
roll. The win was the Tartans sixth in a 
row, giving them the longest winning 
streak in ten years. CMU moved to an 8-2 
record overall and a perfect 3-0 start in the 
Presidents Athletic Conference.
Harper drilled a ten foot baseline jum
per for the game winning hoop with only
12 seconds remaining. Earlier in the over
time period, the Pittsburgh Schenley High 
grad pumped in two key free throws to 
knot the count at 90s with 1:21 left.
Harper said that hes been in similar 
game deciding situations several times 
and wasnt really affected by the pressure. 
The 66 forward said, When the game 
gets close, the best in me comes out.
John Carroll had to come from behind 
a six point deficit with two and a half 
minutes to go in regulation time to send 
the game into the extra period. After 
George Harvey put the Tartans ahead by 
six with two of his CMU career high 28 
markers, the Blue Streaks narrowed the 
gap to four on a basket by Jim Skerl.
The Tartans went into the four cor
ners offense but made the mistake of 
not sinking the important foul shots that 
make the pattern so effective. Ralph DeaBrunzzo, who hadnt missed a charity toss 
all season, only converted one of two free
by Stephanie Waite
On Wednesday January 12, Kumquats A 
captured first place in womens volleyball 
intramurals, by defeating Delta Gamma, 
Delta Delta Delta, and Chi Omega in play
off action.
Kumquats first match was versus Delta 
Gamma. They lost the first game, 15-3, 
then made a strong comeback to win the 
last two games and move on in the play
offs. Jacqui Wooleys strong serving aided 
the Kumquats in their victory.
The Kumquats A then handled the TriDelts easily, winning two games in a row. 
They found stiffer competition when they 
faced Chi Omega for the championship. 
Kumquats A won the first game by a close 
margin, and Chi Omega won the second 
game by an equally small margin. The 
third, deciding game, was again a close
match. Kumquats A led by 14-12 with 
Chi Omega serving. Things looked dim 
for the Kumquats, however the referees 
ruled that the Chi Omega player had her 
foot over the net line. Kumquats gained 
possession of the ball, and scored the 
winning point. Fine serving performances 
were given by Nina Gattel, Roni Kelly 
and Abby Selman.
The Kumquats A are better known as 
the girls from the second floor of Donner 
Hall. The championship team includes 
Abby Selman, Jan Billik, Cyndie Lawson, 
Cindy Fabian, Roni Kelly, Kathy Schollaert, Nina Gattel, Marianne Dwyer, Beth 
Spencer and Jacqui Wooley. They were 
aided in their drive by Kumquats B, who 
acted as spirited cheerleaders. These girls 
included Stephanie Waite, Jane Batyko, 
Kathi Brunner, Debbie Robisin, Carolyn 
Stewart and Pat Petry.
Big Red on Sports
by Bob Firm country teams each picked up seven points
for their second place finishes in the PAC. 
Camegie-Mellon has attained their The soccer team added four points to make 
highest standing ever in the race for the the Tartan total 18. 
prestigious Presidents Athletic Conference The complete standings are as follows:
All-Sports Trophy based on results of the Allegheny................................................ 19-5
conferences fall sports. The Tartans are CMU * 18
ranked second only 1.5 points behind the Case Western Reserve 15.5
league leading Allegheny College. Bethany 13
Scoring is based on eight points for first ,
place down to one point for last place in j()hn ( arroj| 9
accordance with a schools final standing in Hvam 9
each PAC sport. Thiel 5
CMUs excellent football and crossI

---------------------------------------------------

page 22 - TARTAN - January 25, 1977
ICERS COP LEAGUE WIN Mappers Win
by Bill Oakley
Outstanding offensive play by the first 
line and solid goaltending by Don Jacobson 
and Don Crisafulli powered the Tartan 
hockey club to a 7-1 victory over Slippery 
Rock in a Western Pennsylvania Intercol
legiate hockey league game. The victory 
was the Tartans second consecutive in 
league play, and their record now stands at 
2-0.
The first period of play in the game be
longed to' the Tartans. CMU peppered 
Slippery Rocks goalie with fifteen shots 
while Slippery Rock could manage only 
five at CMU goalie Don Jacobson. CMU 
managed to convert two of the fifteen 
shots taken into goals, with both goals 
coming while the Tartans held a man 
advantage. Mark Jonnatti scored the first 
goal at 7:28 on a deflection of a shot from 
the point. The second goal was scored by 
Rick Smith on a wrist shot from twenty 
feet.
The second period of play brought a 
change in momentum as Slippery Rock 
took the play away from the Tartans, outshooting them 12-5. Slippery Rock was 
unable to convert any of their shots ai 
goalie Don Jacobson, while CMU expanded 
their lead to 4-0 by scoring twice. Mark
Jonnatti (back to goal)
Jonnatti scored Ills second goal of the 
game when he drilled a slap shot past the 
Slippery Rock goalie, and Tom Grimm 
lifted a shot over the prone Slippery Rock 
goalie to cash in on a rebound.
In the final stanza both teams tightened 
up defensively. Once again, however, the 
Tartans held the edge in scoring as they 
converted three shots into goals. Ken
GIRL HOOPSTERS SQUEAK BY FOES
by Gordon Morrison
The Carnegie-Mellon University 
Womens basketball team won a practice 
game 44-43 on Wednesday and their season 
opener 41-38 against Seton Hill on Thurs
day night.
The practice game was with a tall West 
Penn Hospital plus one team with a 
starting lineup of 63, 510, and 58 
with a 510 substitute on the bench. 
(Compare that to the starting heights for 
CMU, 6'W\ 5*7, and 54) This height 
advantage for West Penn gave them the 
lead for most of the game, but they were 
never able to open up a lead of more than 
6 points. Finally, with about 5 minutes 
remaining in the game, CMU tied the score 
at 28 all. Over the next two minutes, CMU 
opened a lead at 36-32, but West Penn got 
key rebounds and tied the score at 36 all. 
West Penn then took the lead at 38-36 and 
again at 40-38, but CMU constantly fought 
back, gaining a 40-40 tie. Driana Davies 
then hit a shot from the baseline to grab 
the lead at 42-40. West Penn tried to work 
for the good shot but the center got fouled 
while driving through the key on the way 
in for an easy layup. The center made the 
first shot of the one and one. However, in 
a play designed during the time out, the 
second shot was intentionally missed with 
the ball rebounding out to one of the 
West Penn players. A shot was taken with a 
West Penn player getting the offensive 
rebound for an easy two points and the 
lead at 43-42. The game appeared to be 
over when CMU missed an outside shot, 
with 16, Ingrid Goedicke with 9, Driana 
Davies with 6 and Brandi Jackson with 
5. The game had a large number of fouls 
called (39) and the largest number of tech
nical fouls called in a game of womens 
varsity basketball. Two technical fouls 
were called against CMU for wearing 
jewelry and two against Seton Hill for 
protesting the referees calls too'vehe
mently.
The next game is at California State 
College of Pa. on Saturday, January 29 
at 11 00 a.m. The team would like to
thank the people that came to the game on 
Thursday, especially the group from 
A.T.O.
The game with Seton Hill was also very 
close and exciting. The CMU team did not 
play as well as expected, but always 
seemed to play well when needed. The 
team fell behind late in the game at 33-31 
and 35-33, but kept scoring crucial baskets 
and blocking shots to regain the lead at 
37-35 and again at 39-37. With less than 
one minute to play, captain Ingrid Goe
dicke sank both ends of a one and one to 
insure the win for CMU. Karen Azinger led 
all scorers with 18 points (47% from the 
floor), followed by Laura Cooper with 8, 
Driana Davies with 7, Ingrid Goedicke \ :th 
6, and Terry Preskar with 2. The lead ig 
rebounders for CMU were Laura Cooper 
but Ingrid Goedicke outjumped two West 
Penn players, passed the ball outside to 
Davina Davies, who sank a fifteen footer 
for the winning basket. West Penn had 12 
seconds left but their last chance fell off 
the rim at the buzzer.
scores first CMU goal.
Trumpfeller caromed a shot off the post 
at 1:53 for the first goal of the period, 
and Rick Smith bagged his second goal 
of the game from a scramble in front of 
the net. Joe Chaves closed out the CMU 
scoring with a pretty tip in of a feed from 
Jerry Hutchinson. The CMU goalies lost 
their bid for a shut out at 4:50 of the 
period when Lorenzo of Slippery Rock 
beat the CMU defense to score.
The Tartans next game is Saturday at 
the Civic Arena against Duquesne. Game 
time is 1:30. They will then meet Gannon 
on Sunday at 5:00 p.m. at the Lake Vue 
arena. Come and support your Tartans!
Shots on Goal
CMU  27 Slippery Rock  21
Goals
CMU 2 2 3 -7
Slippery Rock 0 0 1 -1
IM Title
The Mappers ping pong team, compos
ed entirely of members of the sophomore 
class, completed another successful season 
in this years team table tennis competi
tion. The team ably led by Charles Mc
Daniels, finished its leagues round robin 
competition with a 6-0 record. Among the 
8 teams entering the single elimination 
semi-finals competion, the Mappers came 
out on top after defeating a couple of 
strong teams from Schlag and PKT.
In the finals match, held on the last day 
of fall calsses, in the ping pong room of 
Mudge House, the Mappers beat Schlag 
4 matches to 1. Although the number one 
man from SchlagDan Rotar defeated 
the Mappers first player, successive victo
ries in the remaining 3 singles events by 
Charles McDaniels, Michael Alston, and 
Marcus Savage clinched the title for the 
Mappers. In spite of the fact that the fifth 
match-a doubles eventwas decisively won 
by the team of Edwin Williams-Michael 
Alston, the fourth match was the most ex
citing of the tournament final with Savage 
clinching the title (23-21, 17-21,21-17).
The Mappers rester is made up of re
turnees Charles McDaniels-captain, Vinnie 
Chung, Michael Alston, Edwin Williams, 
Marcus Savage, Tony Carrington, Keith 
Hordatt, and new recruit from 7E-Daryl 
G. Adams. The team was runner-up in last 
year's tournament to a team of fine players-most graduate students-called Zoo. The 
Mappers team, which contributed 3 of the 
4 players on the CMU-A team sent to 
the University of Pittsburghs invitational 
tournament in November, has high hopes 
for future success in table tennis.
EDITOR'S NOTE
My apologies to Keith, Harry & Russ.
Next week!
Extra curricular
Little Ingrid Goediche skied as did the women's 
basketball squad.one beer lover to another.
THE STROH BREWERY COMPANY, DETROIT. MICHIGAN 4822

---------------------------------------------------

January 25, 1977 - TARTAN page 23
//
by I.M. Wright.YOU !?&%(!
//SPOTLIGHT ON "CICCO"
These are just a few comments con
cerning the last two home basketball 
games. First of all, I would like to con
gratulate the team and the coaching staff 
on their season to this date and wish them 
the best of luck in the remaining part of 
the schedule and hopefully even the play
offs.
The W&J game caused a lot of thinking 
by the fans that saw the game. One of the 
major post game topics (Actually it was in 
the middle of the first half when most of 
the crowd lost interest) was the slowdown 
used by W&J. Why does the NCAA allow 
something as boring as the slowdown and 
the stall?? Why cant they switch to a 30 
second clock like the pros; If I had paid to 
see the CMUW&J game, I would have 
asked for a refund, but since I got in free,
I feel that I should have been paid to watch 
the game. Although the game was not as 
bad as some games I have read about, (How 
does a final score of 6-4 sound?) the game 
was aptly described in last weeks Tartan 
as being as much fun as watching Astro
turf grow. The second question that came 
to mind was the competency of the W&J 
coach. The slowdown kept them down by 
only 20 points at halftime, but later in the
game when they were 20 points down and 
time running out, they were still using the 
slowdown. Sure, the W&J team was no 
match for the CMU team in any offensive 
or defensive department, but it seemed like 
the W&J coach seemed content to lose by 
only 30 points instead of trying to win. 
To me, losing is losing.
However, the main reason for writing 
these comments is the verbal abuse of 
the referees at the Hiram game. Let me 
define some terms. The Kitchen Band, 
the Pep Band and students running out on 
the floor to lead cheers (as long as it is not 
disrupting the game) is team and school 
spirit. Even trying to help the referee 
decide who knocked the ball out of bounds 
or fouled and even booing him when he 
rules for the other team is also spirit. But 
when it comes to swearing at the referee, 
that is verbal abuse. I heard one fan 
scream Listen ref, you !f+$%/ , why 
dont you open your $%/&*%$ eyes and 
watch the !f+$%/& game, you !f+$%/. 
This fan was not more than 10 feet from 
the referee in question. I also believe that 
the call was incorrect, but still that kind of 
remark Rl7 uncalled for. The referee is 
just another person who is trying to do his 
best and many times he fails, but verbal 
abuse is not helpful to the home team.
CMU TANKERS SUNK
by Diane Maddock
On January 22, 1977 W&J traveled to 
CMU and took a commanding lead from 
the start and won by a score of 68-45. 
Although some of CMUs swimmers 
improved their times it wasnt enough 
to come close. The team seemed to come 
alive in the 50 free style race when CMUs 
Frank Dittman and Pete Dickey captured 
first and second places. Joe Dickey kept 
the spirits alive by capturing first place
in 200 IM and Harry Coleman captured 
first place in the 200 fly. The team came 
back in the last event with a time of 
3:32.01 from the combined efforts of Pete 
Dickey, Dittman, Coleman and J. Dickey.
Coach Pecman insisted we had good 
times but the swimmers and divers must 
become more serious about winning. 
Next week the team travels to John Car
roll which promises to be a close meet. 
The following week the team returns home 
to swim against Bethany on February 5 
at 2:00 p.m.
Handball schedules are out in the IM 
office. The season commenced as of yester
day so pick one up if you are enrolled  
you might be missing something. Wrestling 
entries are due today, Tues. Jan. 25, at 
4:30 p.m. as are water basketball entries.
Who are You, telling us how to run our business?
It takes a lot of confidence to come 
fresh out of school and begin telling us 
how to do things.
On the other hand, it takes an un
usual company to provide the kind of 
environment where that can happen, but 
that is exactly the environment you'll find 
at Scott Paper.
We constantly search for people 
who have the ability to respond to chal
lenge and think for themselves, those 
with the initiative and desire to seek al
ternatives, the skill and courage to con
vince others that there are better ways 
and who aren't afraid to express their 
ideas.
At Scott, we admire an aggressive 
stance because we are an aggressive 
company You can make your own op
portunities with us . .and we'll prove it
Contact your 
placement office 
for information.SCOTT
an equal opportunity employer, m/f
- FINAL NOTICE GIRLS -
Last call for girls IM Basketball entries. Mr. 
Birdy & f Mrs. Pecmam will be accepting 
roster entries until 4:30 p.m. on Thursday, 
Jan. 26th in the gym.
This is the first in a hopefully contin
uing series of celebrity interviews to be run 
in this section of the TARTAN. Each week 
a college performer or administrator will 
be opening up to the campus community 
his views on the college, his interests 8i his 
views on the sport he or she is actively 
involved in. Due to the recent success of 
the Tartan basketball squad the sports staff 
of the TARTAN thought it appropriate to 
interview some of the main instigators for 
the surge in the Tartan basketball program, 
Larry DiCicco.
Larry DiCicco played high school Pall 
at Allegheny High School as a forward. His 
team went to the state tournament in his 
junior year, losing in the quarter-finals to 
Farrell, the eventual champions. Larry was 
a Press and Post-Gazette All-City player 
as well as being nominated for the Dapper 
Dan Roundball Classic. In his two years at 
Allegheny Community College, playing as a 
guard, DiCicco was placed in the Who's 
Who in American Jr. Colleges and was a 
Region 20 All-Star as a sophomore. At 
6'3" and 180 lbs., he was first team PAC 
last year and named All-District first team 
by the Pittsburgh Basketball Writers. 
Leading scorer last year, Larry is captain 
of the team this year.
GRIFF: What goals do you see the team 
striving for this year?
LARRY: Our biggest goal is to win the
PAC, and if we can do that and make 
the playoffs, just to get as far as possible 
in tournament play.
GRIFF: Larry, what to you perceive your 
role on the team to be? It seems that 
. you are not shooting as much this year. 
LARRY: This year I try to keep the ball 
moving as best I can to set up the in
side scorers. Last year I had to force up 
some shots, but because of our better 
offensive power this year I can wait un
til I'm more open. Not having as much 
pressure on me to score allows me to 
concentrate more on defense.
GRIFF: Are there any goals you have per
sonally?
LARRY: Yes, I'd like to reach the thou
sand point level for my college career. I
should reach it in a few games. Secondly
I want to go out a winner.
GRIFF: What are you planning for next 
year?
LARRY: I'll be back at CMU next year to 
finish up my Civil Engineering degree 
but I won't be eligible to play basket
ball. It might be fun to try football.
GRIFF: What factors do you see as ressponsible for the turnaround in CMU 
basketball in the last few years?
LARRY: The biggest factor is Coach Ma
loney. He helped instill a winning atti
tude in us and he can keep us fired up. 
One of the first things he did when he 
arrived was to have us yell, ''1-2-3-win" 
when we huddled in order to stress the 
fact that winning is the main goal. Mr. 
Banner has done a lot to upgrade the 
program and the winning attitudes of 
many of the recruited players have 
helped to form a winning spirit here.
GRIFF: Who do you see as your toughest 
opponent all season, including games 
already played?
LARRY: I'd have to pick Hiram. They
should be undefeated and they are the 
returning PAC champs.
GRIFF: You think Hiram's better than
the Division II teams you played?
LARRY: The step between Division I and
II is a lot bigger than that from Division
II to III.
GRIFF: On the subject of inter-division
comparisons, how do you see CMU as 
shaping up against Pitt and Duquesne?
LARRY: The important part of the game 
would be the beginning. We would have 
to stay close and have a good start. If 
we could accomplish this, I feel we 
could play with them. I think George is 
as good as any guard in the city. We 
may have a little trouble on the boards 
since our front line isn't that big. If we 
played Pitt, the fact that they never 
have the same lineup twice would be a 
factor In our favor.
"Last year, over the whole season the 
average point spread had us losing by 3 
points, counting all games. We lost a lot 
of close games which could have made 
our record a lot better. This year we 
have people who know how to win and 
we have a better bench. These two fac
tors are most important in who wins. In 
the final few minutes, if a starter fouls 
out or gets hurt or tired, if a player can 
be brought in without a sacrifice of ta
lent, we will be more inclined to win. 
The Editor would like to thank Griff for
the time involved for the preceding article.
continued from page 21
ten of his 25 points in the first six minutes 
of the encounter. He was aided by the fine 
outside shooting of Murphy to push the 
hosts to an 11 point advantage midway 
through the first half.
Then the pressure Tartan defense, which 
forced 27 turnovers, moved into gear. CMU 
chipped away at the Blue Streaks margin 
and finally took the lead for the first time 
on two free throws by DiCicco, 36-35, 
with 19 seconds left in the first 20 minutes 
of play.
The second half was a close affair with 
neither team able to pull away. Both sides 
shot exceedingly well and no one was able 
to put together a long string of hoops.
and DeaBrunzzo came off the bench with 
14.
Backing up Krakowiaks 25 were Skerls 
19 points, Rehmers 18 tallies, Murphys 
bombs for 16, and Saul Cyvas inside work 
for 10.Balanced scoring prevailed for both 
sides. CMU placed four players in double 
figures and John Carroll had all five starters 
in double digits. Besides Harvey, Harper 
had an excellent scoring night wth 20 for 
the Tartans. DiCicco pumped in 16 points
The Tartans, now 9-2 overall and 4-0 in 
the PAC, face two more league foes this 
week. CMU takes on Thiel at Skibo Gym 
Wednesday night at 8:00 pm. and travels 
to Case Western Reserve Saturday after
noon at 3:00 p.m.
Harvey
CMU
Pts.
29
Reb.
2
Assists
3Bolden
HIRAM
Pts.
17
Reb.
3
Assists
1
Chambers74v 1Pasqualone1633
Harper11100Chambers614* 2
DiCicco1474McDivitt1234
Costa14102Niehaus362
DeaBrunzzo101Vaughn101
Hamerly200Williams10
Hufnagel000---------------------
DeFilippo400653214
Ward0
82
0
33
0
11

---------------------------------------------------


