The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 81, Number 9, November 11, 1980
Peer Help counseling 
services suspended
photo b\ Robert Zusman
Deanna Silverman was one of the several hundred people at the Common Grounds Nuts and Bolts party 
last friday night. The Tartan hopes she found her match.
by Alice Alfonsi
Peer Help, the student-run counseling 
center, has been shut down for the rest of this 
semester. Essentially Peer Help lacked help. 
The organization would need at least 20 
trained counselors to operate properly. The 
center is closing with a staff of 7. Ellen 
Grossman, a Peer Help co-director, said the 
shut-down was a group decision. I dont 
feel, said Grossman, the center can stay 
open with 7 people.
Dave Liebeskind, co-director of the tutor
ing program and peer help counselor, felt 
that the shut down was not a group deci
sion. He felt that the organization could 
remained open or at least tried a little 
longer. Liebeskind felt that those counselors 
who were opposed to the shut-down did not 
really have a chance to attend the meetings 
with Dean Swank and voice their opinions.
Swank felt that the Peer Help center was 
no longer effective. According to Swank, If 
the university were going to support and 
endorse a Peer Help center, they must keep 
hours reliably. Swank pointed out that 
Peer Helps problem was, Fewer and fewer 
students were using it, which may simply 
mean that the needs w'hich it at one time met
.Food Service finances improve
by Greg Pisocky
Fears of CMU Food Service repeating last 
j, year s financial crisis are unfounded, accord
ing to Ken Stover, director of CMU Food 
% Sen ice. Now being managed by the Marrir* ott Corporation, things are going well 
P enough for Food Service to be able to offer
 an expanded meal plan for the same price as
 the original. This week, Stover plans to 
I announce a two meal increase in the 
T number of meals obtainable under the seven
meal plan. Students will continue to pay for 
 seven meals.
i Food Service is operating at a loss; the 
R bottom line for last weeks figures indicated 
I a 378,000 deficit; however, this figure is mis| leading according to Stover. MiscellaneI ous service equipment and china resulted in 
Ian initial $18,000 lump sum expense. RenI tal of Vali-Dine equipment was $22,000 that 
I was paid off last period. Had we been able to 
I spread out these costs, the deficit would have 
I bten smaller. The loss is actually closer to 
$40,000. If Food Service continues at its 
I c urrent pace of $5,000 in weekly profits, 
[Stover feels the deficit will be within the
0,000 range by the end of the semester.
Heavy costs and high overhead were 
incurred at the start, but from the beginning 
the new staff sought to cut costs as much as 
possible, even going so far as to stay in the 
Margaret Morrison Apartments instead of 
renting hotel rooms. Marriotts ability to 
purchase a small number of items from its 
own commissary, while at the same time 
enjoying the advantage of purchasing at 
volume discount is an important factor in 
improving Food Services financial 
condition.
Marriott is also monitoring cash flow 
closely. Last year, accounting data was com
piled monthly. Marriott now produces a 
weekly report which is passed on to Oscar 
Mayer, Director of Auxiliary Services.
Stover is attempting to make improve
ments in other areas as well. Next there will 
be a change in the number of meals offered 
under the contract plans. The 15 meal con
tract has already been changed from 15 
designated meals a week to 15 of the stu
dents own choosing. The number of oper
ating units, for accounting purposes, has 
been reduced from 8 to 2 which makes it 
easier to pinpoint sales and obtain daily
cash reports.
There are a number of problems currently 
under study. Food Service has corrected a 
problem concerning billing for this semes
ter. Students were charged $365 dollars less 
than they should have been and were under
standably upset when Food Service tried to 
collect on an account that was supposedly 
paid in full. Shortages in the entrees Kiltie 
Cafe offers are also under study, but as 
Stover notes, Theres always a back up 
item. It just might take a five minute wait to 
get at it. Salads Plus has had a tremendous 
response, although the same cannot be said 
for Morewood Gardens. Morewood needs 
more student support. This is especially a 
problem since management has designated
inancial aid
'MU says private schools are being had
/ by Reed Vickerman
In Pennsylvania, the private schools are 
<Jing had. This was the reaction of Walter 
<ithie, Director of Financial Aid here at 
^MU, to inquiries into the current financial 
lid war being fought over state and federal 
funds. As CMUs annual tuition rate passes 
|he $5,000 level next year, and we come to 
|he end of a ten year period whch has seen 
[union jump from $2,500 in 71-72, to
$5,400 in 81-82; students and parents are 
increasingly being faced with the possible 
trade-off between ambition and choice, or 
financial feasibility.
In contrast to this year, and its discourag
ing outlook for students trying to meet col
lege costs, last year CMU experienced a 
bumper crop of aid dollars. During 1979-80 
CMU was successful in obtaining record 
continued on page 4
were being met more conveniendy. For 
example, when Peer Help first began, there 
were no resident assistants (RAs) in dorms, 
and the counseling center in Baker Hall did 
not have the equivalent of 3 full-time 
employess available for counseling.
Earlier in the year, Peer Help did manage 
to recruit 20 volunteers to be trained for 
counseling. As the year progressed, how
ever, the volunteers were finding difficulty 
in committing their time for training and 
continued on page 5
Libraries 
get $100,000 
supplement
Thomas Michalak, the newly appointed 
Director of University Libraries, recently re
ceived a one hundred thousand dollar 
supplement to improve those facilities.
Most of the funds will be used to purchase 
new materials. To increase the number of 
current publications, a plan has been 
initiated with the Strand Bookstore in New 
York. New publications will automatically 
be sent here and reviewed by staff and faculty 
members. Approved books will be pur
chased at a discount, and the rest will be 
returned.
Another plan was approved to upgrade 
the librarys reference service. An additional 
reference librarian will be hired, and service 
will be expanded to include Friday evenings 
and Saturdays. This will probably be done 
next semester.
An effort to replace lost or stolen materials 
is also in effect.
A small portion of the library funds will 
be used to print pamphlets and improve 
signs so that students can locate and make 
better use of library facilities.
Twenty percent of the funds will be dis
tributed to the universitys individual col
leges, whose library representatives will
photo courtesy American Program Bureau 
Consumer advocate Ralph Nader will participate in a debate on nuclear energy here on November 12.

---------------------------------------------------

Editorial.
Proposed alcohol policy is simply cosmetic
University alcohol policy, in the past, has 
simply maintained that CMU conforms to 
Pennsylvania state law on alcohol 
consumption. However, recent liability 
lawsuits involving officials and organizations 
of several other universities have made it clear 
to CMU administration that this policy is not 
sufficient and some decisive action must be 
taken in order to protect university interests: 
hence the proposal for a University alcohol 
policy.
While it would be easy to attack the alcohol 
policy as simply another attempt to curtail 
students rights, it is much more difficult to 
address the very real problem the University 
must face: how should student alcohol 
consumption which, in most cases, is illegal 
given Pennsylvanias 21 year old drinking age, 
be dealt with?
In the past the University has taken a
laissez-faire attitude towards campus 
drinking. Theyve assumed that students can 
decide for themselves when and how much to 
drink. And they must also have realized that no 
matter what rules were enacted, alcohol could 
never be effectively eliminated from any large 
party on campus. Since the University is 
legally responsible for the behavior of its 
students on University property, even 
unauthorized drinking will be a potential 
liability to CMU. No policy could absolve the 
University from this responsibility.
Provisions one and two of the proposed 
policy on alcohol are merely an amplification 
of the state law as it applies to the University. 
Yet the fourth allows for possible exceptions at 
the discretion of Dean Swank. Exactly how 
and when he will open this loophole remains 
to be seen.
The third provision, however, has the
greatest controversy. Many campus 
organizations and departments, most notably | 
SDC and Residence Life, have in the past spent 
substantial portions of their funds on alcohol 
which they feel is essential to the success of 
their functions.
Additionally, the GSO has expressed its 
feeling that because virtually all of its members 
are over 21, it should be exempted from the 
provisions of the policy. If the GSO is 
exempted on these grounds, why shouldnt 
those undergrads who are over 21 have alcohol 
available to them? These two exceptions alone 
create more problems than the policy solves.
If there is to be a policy, it must be a firm, 
consistent enforcement of the state law and not 
a cosmetic, discretionary covering. A 
superficial policy will fuel theoretical protest 
and will fail in practical application.
(See article page 5)1
The Republican Senate: moderate conservatism will rule
Ronald Reagans coattails were indeed 
long and wide. The Republican sweep car
ried into the U.S. Senate and many stateJiouses as well as the White House. The 
Republicans gained 12 seats in the Senate; in 
January they will command a 5347 advan
tage and become the majority party. Senate 
leadership positions and committee chair
manships will all go to Republicans. In 
order to hold on to the reins through 1984 
and into the second half of the decade, how
ever, the Republicans, both in the White 
House and Congress, must act with the 
knowledge that it is the moderates who are 
tipping the scale. Despite what the new 
right, single isssue and evangelical groups 
say and believe, the G.O.P. cannot totally 
abandon the progressive social and eco
nomic gains of the post-New Deal era. The 
Christian Science Monitor of Nov. 6 pro
jects, "any attack on the welfare state or the 
unions will likely end a G.O.P. era 
instamly.
The Moral Majority, the Committee for
the Survival of a Free Congress and other 
new right groups are fighting to prevent 
moderate Howard Baker form becoming 
Senate majority leader and are urging Rea
gan to stifle the power of Vice-President 
elect George Bush. It is precisely this mentalBill
Kapner
ity will cause the Republicans to lose 
their majority status very quickly. How
ever, if the new Senate Chairmanships are 
any indication of the course of the new 
senate, moderate conservatism will be the 
dictating ideology. Mark Hatfield, a liberal 
Republican in the mold of Jacob Javits, will
take over the important Appropriations 
Committee. Moderate Charles Percy will 
head the Foreign Relations Committee.
Some committee chairmanship are pass
ing from one conservative to another. The 
increasingly important Budget Committee, 
currendy chaired by South Carolina Demo
crat Fritz Hollings, will be headed by Pete 
Domenici of New Mexico. The Defense 
committee chairmanship will pass from 
Mississippis John Stennis to John Tower 
of Texas. The most conservative man in the 
Senate, Jesse Helms of North Carolina, will 
head the Agriculture Committee, formerly 
the domain of defeated Herman Talmadge. 
Fortunately, hell have litde influence on 
social and national security issues from this 
post.
TWO DEFECTIONS
The only extreme shift will occur at the 
helm of the Judiciary Committee. Liberal 
Ted Kennedy is losing the chairmanship to 
Strom Thurmond, who ran on the States 
Rights platform for president in 1948. ThurEmphasizing CMU research
Tartan Science Coverage to expand
Genetic engineering, artificial intelli
gence, robodcs the world as we know it is 
being reborn due to todays scientific 
research. Knowledge about man and life is 
growing at an exponential rate. CMU is a 
pioneer in many new frontiers, working on 
projects and ideas erf great impact and often 
great controversy.
Bob
Leighty
Many projects are massive in both size 
and potential. While much of the work is 
truly amazing, equally amazing is the lack 
of publicity given this research. Except for 
the individuals involved, few people seem to 
be well informed about research which in a 
few years will drastically alter all of our lives.
To fill what we perceive as a science 
vacuum The Tartan hopes to expand its 
coverage erf CMU science and technology, 
developments and controversies.
Dossier is our regularly published news
paper supplement and creative outlet for 
CMU. Since creativity is the foundation erf 
science, we see Dossier as the primary' outlet
for our increased science coverage. While the 
emphasis would be on explaining CMU 
research, Dossier would also provide analy
sis, opinion and relevant topics from outside 
the University. We hope to ask and discuss 
many questions, including:
What can we really do with DNA?
Was Darwin wrong aobut evolution.'
A computer for every student?
What are the consequences pf robotics? 
Will we siThee have 200 mph trains?
Can and should we change the weather?' 
Should we prepare for satellite wars with 
the Soviet Union?
Polymer science: what (an man-made 
materials do for man?
Clan we solve world hunger?
Can we really improve mental health?
To look at these and other questions, we 
need your help. Specifically, we need article 
ideas, information (especially on CMU 
research) and people science writers, illus
trators and photographers. Without such 
input from students and faculty, CMUs 
science vaccum will continue while our idea 
suffers an unfortunate and premature death.
Anyone interested in helping expand our 
science coverage should attend our initial 
science staff meeting, 7 PM Thursday in 
The Tartans main office, Room 50 Skibo. 
If this time is inconvenient, leave your name 
and phone number in Room 50 Skibo.
Incidentally, as Science Editor, I will be 
losing what little spare time I have left and 
thus will cease to write this weekly column. I 
hope to write more columns, but only occa
sionally and with consent of our sympa
thetic Tartan editor. For readers who dont 
care for my columns, this should provide 
incentive to help establish our expanded 
science coverage and keep me busy.
Our goal with this endeavor is to emphas
ize the relevance and significance of todays 
research, keeping the discussions in lay
mans terms to reach as wide an audience as 
possible. We should realize that we can 
respect science without being intimidated 
by it.
It is important for the general population 
to be aware of science, which today is creat
ing a new world for us to live in. It isa world 
of visions and dreams, exploration and dis
covery', wonder and beauty.
For million of years man has reached out 
for knowledge, often amazed and delighted 
over what he learned. We tend to think of 
civilization as something in existence for 
thousands of years; perhaps it has just 
begun.
Bob Leighty is a Junior majoring in Tech
nical Writing and Editing and is Editorial 
Assistant for The Tartan.
mond, however, may not be as conservative! 
in this post as some Democrats fear. Thel 
New York Times of Nov. 7 reports thatf 
Thurmond is very cool toward proposals fori 
a constitutional ban on abortion. He also! 
indicated that he will break ranks with pari [ 
of the Republican Platfrom which calls foi J 
appointment of federal judges who oppose! 
abortion and favor family values. Thur 
mond stated, I plan to consider the person 
as a whole and not use one issue as a litmusl 
test.
The Senate Finance Committee, which|| 
deals with tax legislation, should become! 
increasingly important now that an avowed I 
tax-cutter is in the White House. For years I 
this committee was used as a power base by n 
the influential Louisiana Democrat Russel! B 
Long. Kansas Republican Robert Dolefv 
Gerald Fords running mate in 1976, will B 
take over the Finance Committee in Janum 
ary. Like Thurmond, Dole has also indi-.l 
cated areas in which he differs from Reagan 
and traditional conservative policy posiB 
tions. He termed Reagans plan to cut taxesH 
by 10 percent a year for 3 years counterpro H 
ductive and inflationary. He also would like| 
to promote insurance for catastrophic] 
health costs, a measure Reagan frown! 
upon.
This sign of defecdon by two influentia 
leaders, from positions espoused by the nevB 
right, is healthy for both the RepublicaiB 
Party and the country as a whole. m
Bill Kapner is a senior majoring in Profesj 
sional Writing and History.
tli III
Editor-in-Chief...................................Susan
Managing Editor............................Doug Kir
Business Manager.............................Karen Stevtij
News Editor ........................................ Jim Bals
Features Editor  ....................Renee RosenfH
Entertainment Editor...........  Richard
Sports Editor....................................... Wes Seelj
Dossier Editor.................................Lynn Epstf]
Photography Editor....................Robert Zusn
Art Directors....................................... Craig
' Tom YVeink|
Production Manager..............................Bob B
Editorial Assistant...............................Bob I9
Associate News Editor...................Jeanne Abntf
Production Staff .............................Yiiue Giiiflj
Mike iHI
( '.ofixriglit < IISO by The Tartan. TIm* F.tlM**1] 
Board ivscucs ihe li.uhi i<> withhold H 
publication am cop\ ii deems mil il loi publi'11! 
Funded in patl by llie Student (iovcuinu1 J 
Cai mu ie-Mel Ion t'nixeisiiy, Pi 11 sbiUij 
PennsNl\ania l*>2l.i. Kdiiotial Olluev Nkil*1]
( 112) '7H-2111. Business Oil ices: Sk i lx  ">t. < 11-1 
2111. 21 bom phone. (112) .">78-211.1 
All rights reserved.

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1980The TartanPage 3
Letters
Architecture Rebuffs 
Editor:
A letter in the Tartan of October 28, 1980 
from an (anonymous) concerned under
graduate architecture student indicated that 
from the information stated in both Presi' dent Cyerts letter dated October 15 and Pro
fessor Sauers departmental policy 
statement, they envision the future of 
undergraduate architecture as that of a 4 
year BFA program linked directly to a pro
fessional degree, 2 year master program. 
For the information of your readers, the 
Presidents letter made no mention of such a 
change in the undergraduate program 
Nowhere in the letter can one find a refer
ence to a four-year BFA program. Rather, 
the President made it clear that he considers 
undergraduate education as a high priority 
mission of the Architecture Department. 
Professor Sauers reference to the undergrad
uate program in Architecture as stated in his 
Progress Report of October 15 th describes 
the undegraduate program as B. Arch, and 
not BFA. It stated that
the central objective of the under
graduate professional (B. Arch.) 
degree program is the education of 
students, not only to practice architec
ture, but to understand the world and 
ones actions in it. Further, it should 
perform the function of providing a 
general foundation in architecture to 
open opportunities for the student in 
different career roles. Undergraduate 
programs must also offer a broad edu
cational experience which develops in 
students a wide range of personal 
capabilities and helps them to deter
mine their areas of concern and talent. 
In this, they differ from graduate pro
grams, which are much more nar
rowly focused on a particular area of 
study.
The reference in Professor Sauers document 
to an existing and ongoing Bachelor of Fine 
Arts program in the Department of Archi
tecture states that
the BFA program should be exam
ined for its effectiveness in providing a 
meaningful option for undergraduate 
education...A non-professional stream 
should be reviewed to determine if a 
more meaningful option within the 
undergraduate program prepares stu
dents for multi-career opportunities. 
This can be accomplished through 
the exploration of related courses in 
other disciplines in conjunction with 
architecture, as well as through the 
preparation of students for advanced 
degrees in a particular specialization 
which relates to architecture.
The BFA program has been an integral 
part of architectural education at CamegieMellon University many years prior to the 
recent change of leadership in the Depart
ment as an alternative for students who wish 
to receive a non-professional undergraduate 
degree. However, they may want to later 
pursue a first professional degree masters at 
CMU or elsewhere.
Nowhere in either of the two documents 
did I find an explicit or implicit reference to 
the transformation of the existing under
graduate program in Architecture to 
become a four-year BFA program linked 
professionally to a two-year program. I must 
state emphatically that this misinterpreta
tion of the two documents has no basis of 
truth in it, that the future of undergraduate 
Architecture at CMU shall always remain a 
B. Arch. First Professional Degree program. 
Such a/program will always be the primary 
goal for undergraduate architectural educa
tion at CMU.
I shall appreciate your making the infor
mation in the two attached documents avail
able to your readers so they can judge 
without the fanciful explication of an inter
mediary. Akram Midani
Dean, CFA
Editor
I would like to supply a few additions and 
minor corrections to four items in your issue 
of November 4, 1980. In order of presenta
tion in paper:
Sauer Releases Report... by Renee Rosenfeld
The chronology in the article is mislead
ing. ...the dispute arose last spring between 
Mall and the departments administration 
over Malls status...after Mall requested the 
appointment as a result of a recommenda
tion by the Senior Faculty of the Depart
ment. The five-member committee 
unanimously recommended...
There was no dispute about Bud Malis 
status last spring. The first time I was aware 
of Buds interest in a special faculty appoint
ment was in August, 1980, when he raised 
the issue with me himself. None of the 
faculty (senior or other) had recommended 
the special appointment to me. I asked Bud 
to write a letter to me formally requesting a 
special faculty appointment. After I received 
this letter, I appointed a five-member com
mittee to collect and review information 
relevant to Buds request. Their recommen
dations were presented to me on October 22, 
1980. Their report will be discussed at our 
next regular open faculty meeting on 
November 12,1980,12:30 p.m., CFA 206. Of 
course, interested students are invited to 
attend.
Architecture report pacifies student 
demands Editorial
With respect to your comment that the 
report is available for student inspectionI have personally distributed copies to Level 
I students. I have asked for my Progress 
Report to be distributed to all students 
through their studios. If some students dont 
yet have a copy, they are invited to pick up 
one in the departmental office.
In response to your call for a tangible 
statement of Architectural policy, I would 
direct you attention to the Progress Report. 
In it I have described our activity of last year 
to work out general guidelines for commit
tee function. The committees include 
elected student representatives. Through 
collective effort they will produce recom
mendations for carefully structured policies 
for areas such as undergraduate curriculum, 
sequences, and our graduate program. This 
deliberate (albeit slow) process is a necessary 
component of constructive change. We have 
identified goals, we have enthusiasm and 
expertise-we are working together to pro
vide clear-cut policies.
Letter from Level IV Architecture Student
In item 1, the student expresses concern 
that disturbing changes in...procedures 
are taking place in the department. I think 
the student was referring to a recent faculty 
meeting convened to elect members for the 
Reappointment, Promotion and Tenure 
Committee for 1980-81. It is established CFA 
and departmental policy that only tenured 
and tenure-track faculty are eligible ot vote 
in elections for this committee. Voting poli
cies vary depending on the issue under 
consideration-these regulations are des
cribed in the Faculty Handbook, Spring 
1979.
Letter regarding The Professional Choice
At no time have I considered or advocated 
changing the 5-year B. Arch professional 
degree in favor of the 4-year pre-professional 
degree followed by a 2-year M. Arch, 
program.
I appreciate the opportunity to call your 
readers attention to these very important 
concerns. I would like to remind interested 
students that I have regular office hours 
every Monday from 5 to 7 p.m., CFA 
201- Louis Sauer
Responsible Airplay 
Editor
Last weeks Tartan contained a letter cri
ticizing the banning of a song on WRCTFM. The Federal Communications 
Commission, which grants WRCTs license 
to serve the public interest as a public trus
tee, makes very clear its prohibition of 
offensive material on the air. The song is 
offensive because it contains the big FOURLETTER WORD more than a few times.
Furthermore, no judgments nor evalua
tions were made concerning the songs 
"message. Our position is simple. On the 
basis of community standards and Federal 
precedent, obscenity is not in the public 
interest. The author of last weeks letter is 
confusing censorship with responsible air 
play.
For the Staff and Management of WRCTFM, Steven D. Kane
General Manager,WRCT
No Respect 
Editor
The obscenities that Physics Professor 
Hugh Young was subjected to last Monday 
were cruel, untrue, and unprovoked. The 
fact that this incident hapened, either inten
tionally or coincidentally, on his birthday 
made his usually enjoyable lecture hard to 
endure.
A mutual respect between teacher and stu
dent is one facet of a quality educational 
experience that C-MU cannot afford to do 
without. Camegie-Mellon is consistently 
ranked among the finest schools in the 
country. It would be foolish, however, to 
believe that we could maintain these rank
ings without our outstanding faculty. And 
how can we expect to keep the good profes
sors that we have, let alone attract the profes
sors that we would like to have, if the 
students display the kind of disrespect, if not 
agression, that was directed at Dr. Young?
Disrespect is not defined exclusively as 
writing obscenities on a projector screen or a 
lecture hall wall. Disrespect also encom
passes habitually coming to class late, sleep
ing in lecture, or especially talking in class. 
While Dr. Young has been subjected to all of 
these forms of abuse,he still manages to lec
ture artfully, and consistently receives 
uncommonly high ratings in A Phi Os 
Faculty Course Evaluation. It is obvious 
then that the students feel that he is giving 
them what they deserve: a quality founda
tion in physics. Shouldnt we be giving him, 
and all of our other teachers, what they 
deserve: a little respect?
Peter Houston Soph EE/EPP 
Henry Zenzie Soph Physics 
No Hush Ups
Editor
I have read with interest the articles in 
receht issues of The Tartan concerning censorshipM am opposed to censorship in any 
form except to prevent slander or libel.
In the first place, why should the mature 
people of the world (who make up the 
majority of all people) be prevented from 
exercising their good judgement? Anyone 
who advocates censorship is logically bound 
to the premise that most people are not capa
ble of making the decision for themselves. 
However, most people (especially those 
most affected by censorship) can handle the 
decision for themselves.
My next point is this: who is qualified to 
say what others should read? School boards? 
Congress? The courts? Recently high 
schools across the country have been ban
ning books from English courses and 
libraries-the works of Shakespeare, Twain, 
and Dickens, among others. In other words, 
books which have been read by students for 
years are suddenly being deemed as unsuita
ble. In cases like this, one has to question the 
qualifications of the people making these 
judgements.
Now, when we consider the case of older 
people, high school and beyond, an addi
tional factor comes into play. By the time a 
person reaches this age, his morals are fairly
well set. Generally, his ethics will not be 
greatly influenced by dirty literature. On 
the other hand, if we forever prevent a per
son from being exposed to sex, violence, and 
whatever else the censors dub obscene, he 
will probably have an even stronger urge to 
get and read this material. The only way one 
could prevent that is to keep the person 
totally isolated, so that he does not know 
such things even exist. Certainly no one 
would seriously propose this.
People cannot be shielded forever from 
the undesirable things in life. It is far better 
to treat controversial material openly, rather 
than trying unsuccessfully to hush it up.
Monica J. Cellio 
Down With Price Fixing 
Editor
As much of the campus community is 
undoubtedly aware, the going price of a 
soda purchsed on campus is now forty-five 
cents. This is a direct result of the nearly 
completed takeover by Auxiliary' Services of 
all independent vending machines on the 
CMU campus. In years past, these inde
pendent vending machines have operated at 
lower prices than machines licensed by the 
University, and have paid no gratuity to the 
University. For the most part, the proceeds 
from these independent machines have 
gone to support the non-profit student 
organizations responisble for maintenance 
of the machines. However, this year Auxil
iary Services has decided to eliminate these 
thorns in its side for the following reasons
1) Because University licensed machines 
charge higher prices, they receive more 
vandalism.
2) Because lower priced independent 
machines exist, University licensed 
machines do not do as much business as 
they otherwise would.
Steps taken by Auxiliary Services thus far 
have included:
1) Asking local suppliers to stop deliveries 
to independents.
2) Arbitrarily raising prices charged by 
independent machines to those charged by 
University licensed machines without con
sent of the independent machine operators.
3) Assessing charges covering mainte
nance and utilities for independent 
machines.
4) Assessing an eight cents per can charge 
for each soda sold by an independent 
machine (a bargain considering Canteen 
pays the University ten cents for each soda it 
sells.)
Thus far, the effects of these steps (aside 
from forcing a uniform 45 cents per can soda 
price on the campus community) have been:
1) To prevent the Computer Science 
machine from obtaining sodas from the 
distributor.
2) To totally eliminate the Civil Engineer
ing soda machine.
3) To install a Canteen machine on the 
first floor of Baker hall (across from the 
faculty senate office) in direct competition 
with the Psychology Department machine 
on the third floor (which has been forced to 
charge 45 cents for sodas).
I doubt that vending services will impove 
with the removal of all independent vend
ing machines from the CMU campus. Cer
tainly, "there will be no more bargain sodas 
available. The battle is being waged now in 
Warner Hall and unless public opinion 
makes itself felt soon, Auxiliary Services will 
have the uncontested power to nickel and 
dime us all to death. Please complain to 
either Ms. Irene Daugherty at extension 3037 
or Mr. Richard Van Horn at extension 2056 
or 2057 as soon as possible! Make your voice
*iean* Phillip E. Unger
---------------------Letter Policy---------------------
A letter intended for publication must be 
signed and include the writers address and 
phone number for verification. Names will 
be withheld upon request. The Tartan 
reserved the right to condense or reject any 
letter.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 4The TartanNovember 11, 1980
State schools have edge in $ aid crusade
continued from page 1 
increases in both federal and state aid. Pen
nsylvania grants to CMU students rose 16%, 
while federal (BEOG) grants jumped 59% or 
over $1 million from the previous 1978-79 
level. Last years huge increases were, in 
part, the result erf the Middle Income Stu
dent Assistance Act which stepped-up the 
federal commitment to higher education. 
Last years grant increases, per needy CMU 
student, were enough to offset the entire 
$400 increase in tuition. Because of last 
years record aid levels, the school was able 
to conserve its unrestricted and endowment 
funds, two sources which did not fare as well 
this year, in what has become an administra
tors nightmare.
This years total of state grants to CMU 
students fell from last years record $1.6 mil
lion level to approximately $1.5 million, 
and was distributed among 200 fewer stu
dents. Other negative trends in aid to CMU 
students, aid which had been increasing at 
an approximate annual rate of 10% until 
this years 11% drop, were events such as 
President Carters reduction, by $50, of every 
grant. Along with this across the board cut, 
the per capita federal aid received by stu
dents of Penn State increased by $500 while 
tuition at that school rose by only$l 16. Here 
at CMU a $400 increase in tuition was coun
tered by a per capita increase in grant dollars 
erf only $580. Cathie points out that CMUs 
commitment to helping students meet the 
costs of their education rose by 70% this year 
and dug deeply into the schools own 
income and endowments. The schools 
commitment to the students and thier abil
ity to meet costs will continue to grow, but
the trend can not last indefinitely.
One factor which Cathie cites as having a 
dramatic effect on the ability of private 
schools to get aid dollars is the Needs Analy
sis Formula used by schools, and funding 
agencies, in apportioning aid. This form, 
known to most as the FAF, is, in Cathies 
view, To simplistic, it is a poor form which 
fails to ask enough questions. Issues such as 
the value of a students parents home are 
often poorly calculated, and those parents 
who are self-employed are often the victims 
of a number game played with their assets.
The search for aid dollars in Pennsylva
nia has truly become a crusade, as private 
schools battle a legislature which has a his
tory of outspoken support for state-related 
schools. CMUs President Cyert has in the 
past few years become one of the most active
private college leaders. Yet his pioneering 
efforts in meeting with the Governor and 
legislators, on behalf of private schools, is 
continually overshadowed by the lobbying 
of state-related universities. Powerful and 
mobile groups such as PSASRU, (the Pen
nsylvania State Association of State-Related 
Universities) which is comprised erf student 
government representatives from Pitt, Penn 
State, Temple and Lincoln Universities, 
have been formed. These groups annually 
converge on Harrisburg to confer with legis
lators. Pitts own group within PSASRU, 
according to Walter Burke of Pitts SGB 
executive board, had a budget of $5,000 last 
year, and made several trips to the state capi
tal. In addition to these student organiza
tions, some state-related schools employ 
professional lobbyists such as ex-senator 
Thomas Lamb who presents The UniverCalif, record controversial
Reagan unclear on financial aid
(CPS)--Pre si dent-elect Ronald Reagan, in 
his attempt to seek a balanced budget as 
soon as possible, has yet to specify which 
segments of governments aid to higher edu
cation, if any, would be cut to meet that 
goal.
Almost certain victims of any belttightening, colleges and universities are still 
in the dark as no one has designed a longrange strategy to cope with the escalating 
costs of higher education.
At the same time, Reagan has been claim
ing that he is the closest friend of the 
nations colleges and universities. Reagans 
team makes it sound like no other former 
governor ever did as much for the students of 
his state.
Ronald Reagan boosted state loans and 
across-the-board scholarships by 900 percent
during his two terms, counters Mary Eng
lish, a Reagan press aid, "and he raised state 
expenditures for state schools and commun
ity colleges by several times.
And, of course, along with evidence of 
past committment, come promises erf future 
concern.
Reagan wants to restore the integrity of 
our higher education system, especially the 
student loan program, English adds. 
Most of all, he believes that if we fix the 
economy, that would be the best solution for 
the colleges.
Yet Reagans record in dealing with 
higher education was highly controversial 
in the past. As California governor during 
the turbulant protests erf the sixties, at times 
he became very impatient.
If students want a blcxxibath, by gcxi 
theyre going to get one, he said during that 
period.
And it is said that many of the massive 
student aid programs he signed into law 
were stuffed down his throat by a liberalminded legislature. He, it is alleged, was 
personally against those programs.
English said that other than Reagans 
firm committment to repairing the 
economy-which he believes would auto
matically solve most of higher educations 
problems-the President-elect has no specific 
programs to insure the stability of many 
institutions. But, considering his belief that 
states and localities should have more con
trol over education, it seems likely that he 
could reduce the involvement of the federal 
government.
sity of Pittsburghs position to his former 
colleagues.
A second, and equally important part of 
financial aid at CMU is the College Work 
Study Program. This program, supported 
by federal funds, has become increasingly 
popular, and last year paid $1.4 million to 
CMU students in an effort to help them 
meet the cost of college. Because of its rapid 
growth in recent years, the programs ability 
to find enough on-campus jobs has been 
exhausted. To solve this shortage, the Finan
cial Aid Department, along with the Career 
Planning and Placement Office, has made 
plans to establish, early next year, a Job 
Location and Development Office. This ser
vice will be staffed by work-study students j 
who will assist all students, especially non 
work-study students, in locating off-campus! 
employment during the school year.
Because erf the complexities and rapid j 
change of financial aid information, Cathie 
is planning to hold discussion sessions with j 
groups of students to try and update them.' 
These seminars, which are likely to be held 
late this month or early in December, will 
review the major programs and inform stu-1 
dents of such changes as the new regulations j 
for Guaranteed Student Loans which j 
include new aggregate amounts and revised 
interest rates.
In light of the current hardships of smalll 
private schools in finding aid for their stu-| 
dents, and erf the inadequacies and inequali
ties of the Needs Analysis system, Cathie] 
reflected on the increasing role of the 
government in education,The governments 
came out and made the promise erf access I 
and choice for all students. Through their j 
programs and methods of distribution they I 
have fulfilled the promise erf access, bull 
where is the choice? Is it between schools or| 
between the price of schools?
MILLIONS OF PEOPLE IN THE WORLD GO HUNGRY EVERYDAY
YOU CAN HELP
NOV 20
I FAST FOR A 
WORLD HARVEST
Give up eating for all or part of a day and donate your food money to 
Oxfam-America the international agency that funds self-help development 
projects in the poorest areas of Asia, Africa and Latin America.
CONTACT:
Oxf am-America 302 Columbus Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts 02116, (617)247-3304
IRON CITY REGULAR 
IRON CITY LIGHT 
SCHLITZ 
BUD
SCHMIDTS
SCHMIOTS BOCK OARK 
CHAMPALE  WHITE 
OR PINK 
STROHS 
GENESEE 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ
BALLANTINE ALE 
MICHELOB REGULAR 
MICHELOB LIGHT 
PABST
PABST EXTRA LIGHT 
MILLER 
MILLER LIGHT 
COLT 45
GENESEE CREAM ALE 
WEIOEMAN
Featuring 22 Variatiaa Staak Subs
SERVING BEER SUNDAY 1 PM - 2 AM
QUARTS MUGS PITCHERS 
CHOICE OF 6 OIFFERENT ORAFT BEERS 
MILLER. MICHElOB. MOLSON ALE. HEINEKEN.
STROHS ANO SCHLITZ MALT 
One different 16 oi. 6 pk featured each week
SCHUTZ * PABST 
SCHLITZ MALT * STROHS 
WE ARE NOT ALLOWED TO 
ADVERTISE OUR LOW BEER PRICES
* SPECIALTY ITEMS * '
FRESH Cut french fries-pizza SERVED TIL 4 AM 
HOT DOGS - CHOICE OF 12 OIFFERENT CONDIMENTS 
35 VARIETIES OF SANDWICHES 
IMPORTS
Original
Ip* ~ HOT 00G
* BECKS LIGHT OR OARK 
Germany
 CARLSBURG MALT 
Denmark
* OORT HANSA Germany
* HOFBRAU Germany
* FISCHER GOLO France
' MOISTEN LAGER Germany 
 ST PAULI GIRL Germany
* SPATEN Germany
* RIGNES SPECIAL Norway
* SWAN LAGER Australia
* BASS ALE England
' MAC KESON STOUT 
England
* LOwENBRAU LIGHT OR 
OARK Germany
WHITEBREAO PALE ALE 
England 
 PILSNER UROUEll Czechoslovakia
* RIGNES Norway
* 00S EOUIS Mexico 
 PERONI llaly
 GUINESS STOUT Ireland 
' GROLSCHE Holland
* GOSSER Austria
 SAN MIGUEL Plullpines
* KIRIN Japan
* MOLSON ALE Canada
* KRAKUS Poland
* HEINEKEN LT 4 OK Holland
* FOSTER S LAGER Australia 
AND MANY OTHER
SHOPS. INC 621-7388 or 621-1185
3001 FORBES AV. (OAKLAND) PCH., PA. 15213

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1980The TartanPage 5
The student as consumer: What kind of rights?
by J. Wesley Miller
Consumers ordinarily enjoy fairly clearly 
defined rights. If they dont like what theyve, 
bought, or some service rendered, they may 
claim an adjustment or even a refund. 
They are protected by trade-association 
codes of ethics, by warranties, by actions in 
contract and tort.
Students university clients are an 
exception. Yes, they have the right to go 
braless or let their hair grow long, to publish 
what they want in the school newspaper, 
and to live in co-ed dorms. They may even 
have the right to due process, providing they 
earned enough money at some time to hire a
lawyer. But such gains in student civil rights 
fail to address the more basic rights that 
students should enjoy as consumers of educauon services.
Salesmen of Educational Services
Higher education is one of the two or 
three cosdiest purchases many people will 
ever make. It is the key to a career, social 
status, and personal freedom in the full 
sense of the word. But the student who com
plains about his education runs the risk of 
being frowned on, called a troublemaker, or 
even packed off to the universityCounseling services stopped
continued from page 1
staffing the office. The training began to go
badly and people started dropping out.
At the request of Peer Help, Dean Swank 
met with the counselors who were undergo
ing training. Swank described to them the 
kind of commitment and program that he 
thought was necessary for the program. The 
plan included a 6-8 hour a week commit
ment from each of the counselors. Swank 
also proposed that Peer Help would be open 
in the evening after the counseling center 
closes. Because of the extensive hours for 
staffing the office, Swank proposed that the 
Peer Help people recruit a staff of 20 volun
teers. These volunteers would have to be 
trained.
The Peer Help staff felt that 6-8 hours a 
week was too much of a commitment and 
unrealistic. The directors decided that it 
was too late in the year to start training 20 
new people.
The co-directors may get involved with 
researching what student needs are at CMU. 
This may lead to a new kind of service that
Computer chess 
set for Friday
On Friday, November 14, 1980, man will 
meet machine here at CMU in two regula
tion chess matches for a prize of $1000.
Jack Gibson of Arizona, an expert ranked 
human player selected at random from a list 
of players provided by the U.S. Chess Feder
ation will play two games against Belle, 
the world champion computer chess pro
gram developed by Ken Thompson of Bell 
Labs.
Computer scientist Hans Berliner, former 
U.S. Postal Chess Champion, will provide 
commentary on the games in the Wherrett 
Room of Skibo Hall.
could open up in January, but nothing is 
definate.
The free academic tutoring which used 
Peer Help offices will still be operadng. 
Another location will be set up, because Peer 
Help offices are already locked and closed. 
The empty offices will be used for another 
purpose. Swank said that a commuters 
lounge might be one possibility for the 
offices.
Cheers;
psychiatrist.
Things must change. With lean years 
ahead, every educator must start to think of 
himself as a salesman of educauon services, 
while still holding firm on academic 
standards.
Educators must also impose new stand
ards of performance upon themselves, 
standards that are not defined in terms of 
papers published, or course evaluation, but 
in terms of the rights of students as 
consumers.
Every student has the right to:
 An implied warranty that the course 
material reflects the current state of learning 
in the field. Professors who read from yel
lowed notes, have failed to read the new 
books in their disciplines, assign corrupt 
texts, use andquated laboratory procedures, 
or teach theories whose dme has not yet 
come, do not deserve to teach.
Respect as an individual, and to forth
right, friendly, tactful, and helpful 
treatment; the right to ask sincere, stupid 
questions and receive polite answers.
 A place to pull up a wheelchair.
 A spot from which the visually 
impaired can squint at the board, and the
hearing-impaired can decipher the profes
sors mumble.
Professors have the obligation to inform 
their students as to course objectives, proce
dures, and standards, and to keep students 
.posted at regular intervals as to their individ
ual progress. Every course should have a 
syllabus and, preferably, a bibliography. 
Standards should relate to absolute criteria; 
there should be the realistic expectation that 
students who study hard will do well. There 
is the related obligation to make timely, fair 
evaluation of course work, and to make per
sonal consultation available to all in regular 
and special office hours.
Counseling Problems
Poor counseling is often a problem. 
There are the dud teachers who take on 
counseling duties to fill out light schedules 
or to have a crack at recruits for their under
enrolled courses.
On the graduate level, theres the disserta
tion director who assures the candidate that 
no .one has done work on a subject even 
though there has beerian abstracted disserta
tion in the field on tap for a decade. The 
continued on page 13
CMU defines new alcohol policy
by Janelle Molloy
Gerald Marks, Director of Residence Life, 
and the campus Alcohol Policy Committee 
recendy made a recommendation to Earle 
Swank, Dean of Student Affairs, concerning 
a University alcohol policy.
Th^policy has four basic provisions. The 
first is that The sale of alcoholic beverages 
on University property is strictly prohi
bited. Second, No University function 
sponsored by either faculty, staff, or student 
organizations may serve alcoholic beverages 
to minors.
The third and perhaps most controversial 
is that the purchase of alcoholic beverages 
with University collected fees is not 
permitted.
Finally, student functions held in the 
Skibo Student Activities Center are not per
mitted to serve alcoholic beverages unless 
permission is specifically granted by the 
Dean of Student Affairs.
ITie University may have been breaking 
state law when it bought alcohol with stu
dent collected funds, since the drinking age 
in Pennsylvania is 21. The recommendation 
came about as the result of an effort to elimi
nate the Universitys and individual staff 
members liability for students injured as a
result of consuming alcohol bought with 
University funds.
While the new policy has not been offi
cially passed by Student Senate, it has, in 
effect, been adopted.
The Graduate Student Organization feels 
that it should be exempt from this policy
since most of its students are over 21.
One of the main points that Swank and 
Marks have tried to make is that alcohol 
does not necessarily determine the success of 
a party. In addition, Swank wants to 
emphasize that what students do in private 
is their own business, and that this policy' is 
not intended to infringe upon those rights.
OPPORTUNITY
WANTED:
QUALIFICATIONS:
TRAINING PERIOD: 
TERM TO RUN:
Tartan business manager; 
non-paying position 
Knowledge of: 
Bookkeeping 
Budget formulation 
Advertising 
(AMS major preferred; but not 
necessary) 
Willingness to spend 15+ hours a 
week 
Organized 
Nov. 24Dec 10 
Jan 1981Jan 1982 
(possibilities exist for second term)
EXPERIENCETHE WORLD AS TOUR CAMPUS
Sail around the world from Ft. Lauderdale, Florida, February 5, 
1981 to South America, Africa, South Asia and the Orient. 
Apply now.
Earn a full semester of credit.. Sponsored by the University of 
Pittsburgh. Offered as an outreach program by the Institute for 
Shipboard Education/University Center for International 
Studies. Participation open to qualified students from all accred
ited colleges and universities. Semester at Sea admits students 
without regard to color, race or creed.
More than 60 university courses - with in-port and voyage-related emphasis. Faculty from the University of Pittsburgh and other leading institutions Visiting area experts
For free color brochure, call or write Semester at Sea/U CIS. Forbes Quadrangle. University 
of Pittsburgh. PA 15260 Telephone toU free (800) 114 0191 (except California)! 
(41) 684 60*1 'Pittsburgh); (714) 881-6770 (California).TheS S Universe is fully 
air-conditioned, 18,000 tons, registered in Liberia and built in America
If interested, call Karen Stevens at 578-2112 or 621-3984 (evenings)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------

VOTE! VOTE! VOTE!
November 19 fc 209:00 AM - 9:00 PM 
Student Senate 
Elections
Graduate and Undergraduate
Seats Open:
Undergraduate Graduate 
CIT 5 seats 3 seats
MCS 3
CFA 3
H & SS 1
SUPA 0
GSIA 0
Funded by Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
A view from the leftDo it yourself: there are no more American heros
Steve Rayshich
Surrounded by my shattered home and head 
I calmly rot and watch the evening news 
-And all my courage, all my love, all that 
is me erodes, washed away in currents of 
boredom and anger and fear. We sit lifelessly 
munching synthesized food watching syn
thesized heroes on color TV but the life 
around us seems so dismal and gray. And 
John Wayne America elects Ronald Reagan 
All American Boy. Like a snake oil sales
man brandishing cure-allsMom and Dad 
and God and Columbia and Ive tried that 
scene alreadyhe sells you your future but it 
looks like your past. But you, you swallow 
the bullshit and try to go back when there 
never was anything there in the first place. 
There never was an American Way or Amer
ican heroes just life and people lonely, 
desperate, frightened people. Ronald Rea
gan tells us we used to be a great nation but 
all I recall are struggles...And your symbols 
' of America are hollow and empty; They tell 
you your vote counts but youre only pul
ling levers and who are these eight strangers 
wholl be saving my life?
Mass America giving people control 
over our lives then asking, But who are 
these people? Its a familiar question; it 
pops into my head as I stroll across campus 
and am jostled by humanoid students eyes 
lowered, spirit sunk, dont step in the grass, 
bustling and grumbling and scurrying to 
class. I want to reach out but youre always 
too busy youre tired, youre working, 
youre boring, youre dead.
I ask myself what are you people working 
for. You want to do well and graduate and 
] Find a job and security but if all you find is a 
ijob and security then youve found nothing 
I it all. When I was still a psychology major a 
1 Friend from home told me, Wow! Thats 
I Jeep. I dont want a job that you have to 
| think about all the time. I just want to do my 
ob, make my money, come home and forget 
J| ill about it. I just want to be comfortable;
[m not interested in changing the world. 
13ut youve bought your comfort, your securI ty; bartered individuality for social propr
iety, inspiration for insulation. There 
J.hould be no divisions between you and 
i/our work they should both be reflections 
|)f you, not fragments of you but reflections 
Irf you. And we mold ourselves to fit the 
liystem but were all round pegs lost in
square holes the job, the system swallows 
us up and the person is drowning and those 
strong walls of security are beginning to 
crumble.
Twentieth Century America is the richest, 
most technologically advanced nation in the 
world but take a look around you you 
cant buy happiness. All you people wear
ing $60 jeans and $40 hair its whats 
inside that counts and whats inside is 
dying or dead. Dead like the three million 
in Cambodia, dead like the hundreds of 
thousands in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and 
our comfort is built on exploitation and 
now theres no one left to exploit but each 
other.
So we start choosing teams black versus 
white, young versus old, freaks versus 
jocks and we make a million different 
decisions and alignments between people 
and all we get is confusion because no one 
really knows whos on whose side and eve
ryones scared. .And the common denominator is still as always fear. Fear of
And the common
denominator is still -
as always - fear.
discomfort, fear of death, fear of the 
unknown, fear of what someone else might 
say. But were so uptight, so wrapped up in 
our Hollywood nine to five all is well exist
ences we wont even recognize our fear we 
transfer it to hate and arrogance and blame 
someone else. We hate the Russians but we 
dont even know the Russians. We hate the 
system but we are the system. All this hate, 
all this prejudice, all this pretension is only a 
mask a way of finding someone to look 
down on, a way of hiding our fear.
Cos if you have to build yourself up by 
putting someone else down then you 
havent gone as far as you think. Stop all this 
hatred, stop all this boredom. You say you 
dont fit the system; I say lets change the 
system. And now youre afraid? So what? Me 
too. But we can deal with fear if we see it as 
fear and talk about it. So strip away all your
Exxon speaks on Energy
by Kathy Krummert
Last Wednesday Mr. A.K. Wolgast, 
Senior Manager of EXXON Internationals 
Planning Department, spoke here on inter
national energy supply and prospects at 
present and in the near future. AIESECs 
1980 theme is ENERGY and this was the 
first of series of events addressing that topic.
EXXON International is the division of 
EXXON responsible for coordinating 
worldwide movement erf oil supplies 
between regions. The division plans day-today operations for crude oil, product pur
chases and sales, and international logistic 
ctivities. Mr. Wolgast review! energy 
evelopment, usage, and technology.
He began with discussion of the Amerian attitude toward energy and how that 
ttrtude has led to our present position. In 
ears past as the U.S. grew in strength and 
rosperity and the standards for material 
omfort grew, energy consumption 
ncreased. An idea of having a right to 
nergy became entrenched in the minds of 
Americans. This attitude has remained des
pite the reality of increased world need and 
decreased supply. When John F. Kennedy 
Id office, the U.S. consumed 10 million 
carrels of oil a day, with 80% of oil producJon taking place within our borders. In the
next 13 years, energy policy resulted in a 
steep increase in demand. Domestic oil pro
duction peaked in 1970. Then in 1973, 
energy trends reversed, due to recession and 
OPEC events. In 1976, demand increased 
again and import levels rose. Now, the U.S. 
energy consumption level is at its lowest 
since 1973. In the past, underground crude 
oil reserves cushioned our wants, reserves 
that have since been heavily drawn upon. 
Conservation is of some help but is not con
clusive and solar energy presently provides 
significandy less than 2% of our total energy 
supply.
Finding reserves to keep pace with 
demand grows increasingly difficult and 
prices rise accordingly. Remaining sources 
are difficult to reach-offshore and Artie 
sights for example. At the same time, OPEC 
provides over half of the available world 
supply and consequendy, maintains a 
stronghold on price control. Mexico has 
some reserves but not enough to solve the 
problem.
He explained that our problems are not 
unique, reminding the audience of Europe 
and other key users. Using an overhead pro
jector and overlapping supply and demand 
charts, he illustrated that the free world uses 
continued on page 8
pretensions and lets get down to the busi
ness of saving our lives. And we cant do it 
on a grand scale because a chain is only as 
strong as its w'eakest link and right now 
were all pretty weak links. So forget Ronald 
Reagan; the problem isnt in Washington, 
D.C.; its in our minds. Save yourself and 
then save the world. And Peter Gabriel gives 
you the message:
Come to me with your What did you say? 
and Ill tell you straight in the eye 
D.I.Y. D.I.Y. ...
do it yourself...
Wrhen things get so big I dont trust them at 
all
You want some control youve got to keep 
it small
D.I.Y. D.I.Y. D.I.Y. D.I.Y. 
do it yourself
We can conquer fear and frustration in 
your lifetimeall wre have to do is try. So 
push aside your obligations and strip away 
your pretensions and come party for a 
whileits really not as hard as you think.
Is Rhythm Vatican Roulette?
(CPS) Almost without fail, they bear 
long titles like The Personal Fertility Guide: 
How To Achieve Or Avoid Pregnancy Nat
urally. They have other things in common, 
like being published by relatively small 
companies. Theyve all appeared on book
shelves within the last year.
And all, according to many birth control 
groups, are part of a movement to create a 
new boom in popularity of an old practice: 
the rhythm method.
Though lay and clinical circles generally 
ridicule the method as Vatican Roulette 
and find it riskier than other birth control 
methods, there appears to be a big new crop 
of pro-rhythm literature in bookstores and 
health facilities.
Nona Aguilar, author of the recently 
released No-Pill No-Risk Birth Control, 
attributes the proliferation of rhythm 
method guides to the risks of other kinds 
of birth control, and to changing sexual 
attitudes.
First, she says, more women are begin
ning to recognize the risks of the effective 
birth control devices like the pill and the 
IUD (intrauterine device).
Second, the promise of constantly availa
ble sex isnt what it was thought to be. It 
makes sex boring. She describes regular 
abstinence as the best aphrodisiac 
available.
While Aguilar and other authors see 
change behind the new crop of literature, 
others see conspiracy.
Rocky Mountain Planned Parenthood 
Director Sherri Tepper classes the books as 
attempts by Catholic and pro-family 
groups to spread their philosophies.
Rhythm only works for couples in per
manent relationships, she says. They are 
try ing to sell it to people on the grounds that 
the pill and IUD will kill themscare tac
tics. This way they can make impermanent 
relationships impossible.
Tom Weber, director of Minnesota 
Planned Parenthood, says the movement to 
re-sell rhythm is the product of a prolifera
tion of national groups whose efforts are in 
Tour directions. One is to illegalize a wom
ans right to abortion. Two is to group all 
contraceptives and show them as immoral. 
Three is to attack sex education and, finally, 
also to attack Planned Parenthood.
Among the national groups he men
tioned were Right to Life, American Bishops 
Concerned for Life, and various evangeli
cal movements in what he calls the com
ing together of the New Right.
Planned Parenthood does tend to be the 
target of most of the authors of the new 
pro-rhythm books.
I happen to disagree with Planned Par
enthood in many ways when it comes to 
allowing anyone to have intercourse when
ever they want, concedes Terrie Guay, 
who has written two of the new rhythm 
guides (Creation of Life: Your Choice and 
the aforementioned Personal Fertility 
Guide). I think its perverse.
Similarly John Kipley, who wrote The 
Art of Natural Family Planning, notes that
the mentality of contraception has been the 
most influential factor against the family 
since 1913, when Planned Parenthood 
founder Margaret Sanger started 
preaching.
Kipley, like Aguilar and Guay, also 
believes this (sex) is an act that should be 
confined to marriage.
In this escalating war of words, college 
health services have generally tended tow-ard 
safe, neutral ground. Josie Greger of the 
University of Wisconsin-Madison Health 
Center, for example, says a member of Right 
of Life approached her about giving birth 
control advice, but that she refuses to take 
sides.
We do not push anything, she states. 
When were counseling, we point out all 
the alternatives.
A number of college health officials were 
surprised there was an attempt to portray the 
rhythm method favorably. No one has con
tacted us about the rhythm method, says 
Dr. Joseph Beres, director of the Student 
Health Service at the University of 
NevadaReno, and I dont think wed 
give them the time of day if they did.
He explains that we dont think its a 
very effective means of birth control. When 
it comes to family planning, Well respect 
anyones religious beliefs, but we dont push 
any non-medical modalities.
We have requests for all kinds of infor
mation, and we do mention the rhythm 
method. But we mention it like someone 
else would menuon that leeches used to be 
medical tools, sniffed the director of a 
major southeastern university health ser
vice. The director requested anonymity 
because I dont want the kooks calling me 
about sin, when our business is science. 
New research, according to Tepper, 
shows the pill to be less risky than originally 
thought. She speculates that the pro-rhythm 
people are publishing their literature in 
anticipation of posidve publicity about oral 
contraceptives.
The risks we hear about, claims Tom 
Weber, came from early sixties studies 
when women were taking oral contracep
tives 10 to 20 times more powerful than the 
current ones.
The pill, the IUD, the diaphram and the 
condom are all dismissed and disliked by the 
rhythm advocates. Nona Aguilar says 
theyre unnatural. John Kipling says, 
they attempt to take apart what God has 
put together.
I urge couples to live with total absti
nence, and not to use each other for their 
mutual orgasms. says Aguilar.
The problem with Natural Family Plan
ning, Tepper counters, is that it may not 
allow sexual expression when people need it 
the most. It places an unnatural restriction 
on the expression of affections.
She theorizes Natural Family Planning 
may be fine for a minority of people. "About 
six percent erf our population are asexual. 
They find a ten-day wailing period attrac
tive. It coincides with their natural rhythm, 
and makes them feel good. They can feel 
rewarded and holv all at once.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanNovember 11, 1980
Exxon speaks on Energy NOW founder to clarify ERA
continued from page 7 
100 million barrels of oil a day, with a pro
jected increase of 20% by the year 2000. This 
increase includes demand caused by devel
oping nations trying to increase their stand
ard erf living. Slowing of energy growth 
implies the need for conservation and slower 
economic growth.
Where will the energy come from to 
supply that expected 70% increase? 
Obviously, no single resource will fulfill our 
needs; every alternative must be explored.
Mr. Wrolgast stressed the importance of 
coal and nuclear development in the next 
decade. The U.S. holds the largest coal 
reserves, more than OPEC does oil, and new 
uses for coal will accelerate due to oil inseP regnant?
And you didn*t mean to be? 
For a free pregnancy lest and 
confidential help call
Birthright 621-1988
curity. He predicted that nuclear energy will 
supply 13% of our needs by the year 2000, 
over half of OPECs oil production capacity. 
He claimed that restraints are largely politi
cal rather than technical. He believes that 
having a wide range of options has passed 
because of lead time involved-for example, 
due to regulatory problems it would now 
take 13-14 years to construct a nuclear plant. 
Long term options include synthetic gas 
and oil production from shale and coal. By 
the year 2000, Mr. Wolgast predicts that 20- 
30% of our fuel will be supplied by synthetic 
fuels. Shale reserves stand at 600 billion bar
rels a day. Particular problems to be ovecome are environmental, social, and 
political.
Mr. Wolgast ended his half hour presenta
tion with comments on working toward 
solving our energy problems:
we cannont afford to indulge in the fan
tasy that a solution will simply appear in 
time
we must not search for villains, but 
instead search for energy solutions 
we must work toward a w'ider under
standing of the problem to make a com
mitment toward its solution; 
unwillingness to do so will cause us to 
face the consequences early_____________
by Melody Mazzie
Carol Vorchheimer had little interest in 
the ERA until her daughter desired to 
enter a Philadelphia public high school 
which specialized in science. The daughter, 
an honor student, had straight As in 
science, and this particular high school 
offered a better education than she could 
receive elsewhere. Because the school was for 
boys only, Miss Vorchheimer was denied 
entry. Her mother took the issue to court, 
but there was no federal law to support her.
That incident occurred in 1977. Now, 
three years later, 35 states have ratified the 
ERA, and three more are needed to make it 
law. Cindy Judd Hill, one of the founding 
mothers of the Pittsburgh chapters of NOW7 
(National Organization for Women), will 
speak about the implications of the ERA on 
November 18 in the Multi-Purpose room of 
Hunt Library. The emphasis of her talk, 
which will begin at 7:30, will be to clarify 
the previous amendments and bring us up 
to w hy this amendment is needed and how it 
will affect every one of our young peoples 
lives.
In 1971, the state of Pennsylvania incorperated an equal rights amendment to its 
constitution. Hill stated that of 15 states 
which have dreir own equal rights amend
ment, Pennsylvanias is most similar to the 
federally proposed one.
Graduates:
Seeing js Believing.
The future isn't so far away...
At Lawrence Livermore 
National Laboratory, 
we can see the future.
Not through crystal 
balls, but through the 
programs we are 
working on every day.
we continue to be the 
innovators in areas of laser 
and magnetic fusion, in 
defense, physics, bio
medical and environmental 
research. Much of our 
work is devoted to the 
development of pollutionfree energy.
There's a certain excite
ment at MMIM that comes 
from the revolutionary 
in-roads which are being 
developed as a result of 
our R&D ingenuity.
As for our technology, 
it goes beyond state-ofthe-art. we house one of 
the largest computer 
complexes in the world, 
and our research facilities 
are unparalleled.
Above all, youll find the 
experience to be gained 
at LLNL will prove 
invaluable in tomorrows 
world of technology.
its happening at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory...
we re looking for people with creative 
minds. People who can take the initiative, 
who can assume responsibility on 
several projects, and who dont want to 
perform the same job year after year.
We encourage our people to expand and 
explore their own interests. You can 
literally shape your own career! Our work 
environment is informal, enjoyable, and 
most conducive to exceptional advances 
and progress.
if you're graduating with a basic or 
advanced degree in the physical 
sciences, engineering, math or a 
computational discipline, we 
would like to meet with you. Our 
representatives will be on campus.
Ask your Placement Office for details, 
or contact us for more information by 
forwarding your resume to: 
Employment Division, LAWRENCE 
LIVERMORE NATIONAL LABORATORY,
P.O. BOX 808, Dept. JCR, 
Livermore, CA 94550.
U.S. Citizenship Required.
An Equal Opportunity 
Employer, M/F/H/v.
On Campus: Fit Nov. 21 st
...where innovation is based on your creativity.
University of California
11 !  Lawrence Livermore Lui National Laboratory
Many women, commented Hill, are wil-j 
ling to take advantage of the benefits of j 
equal rights, but are unw illing to work for j 
those rights. Many, she noted, wTill claim \ 
relation to a suffragist, but they fail to show I 
the suffragist spirit themselves. Fifty years 
from now, remarked Hill, no ones going  
to own a relationship to Phyllis Shaffley.
? . . - -Hill, who received her masters degree
from Duquesne, is especially concerned 3 
about the woman who is an economic j 
entity unto herself, in particular an older j 
woman who is unmarried and must support J 
herself without the aid of an adequate retirej 
ment system. Hill herself was fired from her j 
job w hen she was pregnant with her fourth j 
child. Were it not for her hiisband, she! 
would have had no way of supporting her-1 
self. How can we get people to understand I 
it is vital to their paycheck, asked Hill, I 
that it is vital to the path their lives will j 
take?
Hill sees the fight for the ERA as a hard I 
road to hoe. Ratification will come noton I 
the floor (of Congress), but through office I 
visits, letter writing, lobbies, and medial 
events. She finds the education she lias I 
received from NOW a very enriching expej 
rience and one in which she has worked 
with some of the most stimulating, inter
esting people Ive ever known.
Hill describes NOW as the cutting edge 
of the social system right now. There are 13. 
chapters in Western PA made up mostly of 
middle class women who are not going to 
bridge parties and who vary from house 
wives to students.
The Commission for Women in PA will 
be passing out literature at Hills talk next 
Tuesday. Those attending should not use 
the main entrance of the library, but should 
enter by way of the outside steps on Frew 
Street. $
ABORTION
* free pregnancy tests 
> confidential counseling
WOMENS HEALTH 
SERVICES, INC.
downtown Pittsburgh 
(412) 562-1910
a non-profit medicl facility

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment
History of modern theater: Express shows two farces
by Richard Gorelick
Theatre Express opens its fifth season, 
and third in residence in Pittsburgh, with a 
bill of two one-act farces. Dont Walk 
Around Stark Naked by George Feydeau 
and The Bald Soprano by Eugene Ionesco 
were written only forty years apart, and they 
both deal in part with the manners and 
mores of the middle class, but the similarity 
ends there. This unique double bill offers 
Pittsburgh audiences an oppurtunity to 
witness, in the ten minutes it takes to change 
scenery and costumes, an important 
evolution in theater.
Dont Walk Around Stark Naked is by the 
same author of The Lady From Maxims, a 
very successful mainstage production at 
CMU last year, and like that play, this is a 
very physical, fluffy comedy, one that is 
reminiscent of todays television comedys.
There is no overbearing social message 
here the satire is light and secondary to the 
farce. In the play, a young politician, 
somewhat paranoid about social 
appearances, is trying to persuade his wife 
not to walk around the house dressed in her 
underwear. The wife, a matriarch of todays 
lovable, but flighty heroines, is suffering in 
the 90 degree heat of a Paris summer, and 
sincerely does not recognize the seriousness 
of her lack of apparel.
The husbands exasperation mounts as 
the wife continues to put off dressing, and 
their banter is interrupted by a visit from 
Mayor Favart (whose name is the subject of 
a recurring cheap joke), an opponent to the 
successful political campaign of the 
husband, and Dejaival, a fey gossip 
columnist.
This then is the situation of Dont Walk 
Around  man tries to get women dressed 
 be assured, however, that Feydeau and 
Theatre Express exploit this situation, 
through slapstick, innuendo and crisp 
dialouge, for every laugh it can produce.
The timing, on which this play depends, 
is for the most well-performed, especially 
when executed by Janet Reed, as the wife. It 
is Reed who keeps this play full of life, her 
character is the ideal combination of farce 
and reality.
There were times, however, when the 
comedy fell flat. This is partly the fault of 
the play itself, which is somewhat dated in 
its innuendo and coyness, and sometimes 
the fault of a conflict in the style of different 
actors. Ron Ferro, as the reporter is 
especially broad, while F.L. Schmidlapp 
could have taken his character farther.
After intermission and a set change, the 
audience is welcomed into a typical 
surburban English living room. We know
F.L. Schmidlapp and CMUs Ruth Lesko in The 
this because,'Mrs. Smith tells us that weare 
a typical surburban English couple. There 
is alot of this talking to the audience in The 
Bald Soprano, Eugene Ionescos first play, 
and there are other surrealistic elements that 
contrast it with Feydeaus play.
Theatre Express, however, is playing this 
piece for laughs, and it gets more in this one 
act than in Feydeaus. The play is actually 
very funny, and the director, Marc 
Masterson, a CMU graduate, deserves the 
most credit for this. The actors all seem very 
comfortable with their difficult, stark 
dialouge - there is a consistency in style here 
that was lacking in the opening piece.
An especially fine scene has the Smiths 
visitors, the Martins, slowly coming to the 
realization that they are more than casual 
strangers, and in fact husband and wife.
When the play becomes almost 
completely absurd, it falters somewhat. The 
heated meaningless exchanges between the 
Smiths and the Martins sound like the 
dialogue of Whose Afraid of Virginia Woolf 
thrown into a Cuisinart, and this becomes 
exasperation.
Ron Ferro plays the role of the maid,
Bald Soprano
Mary, in drag, and steals every scene He is in. 
Jason Moehring, the servant in the first play 
and Janet Reed as the younger couple are 
properly unctious and Ruth Lesko as Mrs. 
Smith has some fine moments, especially in 
a sequence where she must repeatedly 
answer a doorbell, only to find no one there.
Theatre Express is now under the control 
of a new artistic director, Jed Harris, who is 
responsible for this seasons promising 
lineup. Express is a mature company that is 
not afraid of risk; it should continue to 
prosper in Pittsburgh.
Like any production in Pittsburgh, this 
one has its fair share of CMU alumni in its 
onstage and backstage personnel. Janet 
Reed, Ron Ferro and David Butler, who
played the husband in Feydeaus play, and a 
fireman in search of a fire in Ionescos, are 
all graduated in acting. Marc Masterson, the 
director and John Gilles, whose sets were 
appropriate, if a little cheap looking, are 
also CMU graduates, and Ruth Lesko is 
currently a graduate playwrighung student 
in the drama department.
The two one acts will run through 
November 23 at Theatre Express on Baum 
Boulevard (near Craig St.). Shows run 
Thursday through Sunday. 621-5454 for 
tickets and information. The next Theatre 
Express production will be an adult version 
of Alice in Wonderland, opening in early 
December.
Bowies Scary album
by Adam Lauzar
David Bowie...Ziggy Stardust, The 
Young American, A Diamond Dog, Alladin 
Sane, Major Tom...Yes, the chameleon has 
changed colors again and he is now a Scary 
Monster. The new new album is a master
piece of extraterrestrial rock, funk and pop. 
Mr. Bowie has always been somewhat out
side of the normal realm of rock; he is an 
actor and a mime and music serves both as a 
mask (for his personality) and a way of com
municating (his heart and soul must speak 
out).
Bowie changes musical style and persona 
like some people change their clothes. His 
music seems to be influenced by whatever 
musicans hes hanging around with at the 
time and the environment. His last three 
albums were recorded in Germany and were 
collaborations with Brian Eno (The father 
of Enosification tajx5 and guitar treat
ments along with midly inebriating syn
thesizer playing and weird noises).
Eno is not heard on this album (recorded 
in New York City), but his influences are 
still heard. A current major influence on 
Bowies style, Mr. Robert Fripp, does appear 
on this album playing guitar. Mr. Fripp is 
one of the most unique and innovative gui
tar players around today. He is the inventor 
of Frippertronics-a mixture of guitar and 
tape effects that produce all sorts of different 
(alien) sounds, noises and moods out of 
standard equipment. The rest of the players 
are his current band of Dennis Davis (per
cussion), George Murray (bass) and Carlos
Alomar (guitars). There are other visiting 
musicians, including Peter Townshend, but 
Mr. Bowie is clearly the show along with 
some excellent help from Mr. Fripp.
The album starts off with Its no Game 
(Part I)a weird intro composed of all 
kinds of alien rattles and noises which leads 
into a nice, easy-cooking rocker with Frippguitar streaming in the background, pro
viding punch. The song, strangely enough, 
has some lyrics sung in Japanese with 
innocent enough harmonies in the back
ground. It ends with a haunting guitar part 
(slightly obnoxious even) that cuts off after 
Bowie screams Shut up! twice. The song 
Up the Hill Backwards follows, with an 
intro reminiscent of the Wfhos magic bus 
gone crazy. That theme appears throughout 
the song.
The title track Scary Monsters (and 
Super Creeps) follows. It is a fast moving 
catchy song, with acoustic guitar pumping 
and Mr. Fripps ever-present guitar moan
ing, whining and riffing in the background.
The hit song of the album follows, 
Ashes to Ashes. There is much to say 
about this song. First of all, it might have 
the most accessible lyrics on the album. The 
song is an ode to Major Tom (that astronaut 
lost in space years ago). It tells of Major 
Toms predicament todayyou spe, it seems 
he didnt die up in space in his out of control 
spaceship.
...Ashes to ashes, funk to funky 
We know Major Toms a junk 
Strung out in heavens high 
Hitting on an all time low...
For me, there is some kind of unexplaina
ble magic in an artists song that refers back 
to one of his earlier songs or hits. Its as 
though the artist has grown, and learned 
things so that he must go back to and correct 
some mistake in an old song or simply con
tinue the story. Somewhat like that mystical 
moment when John Lennons referal to I 
am the Walrus in his later song "Glass
Onion told us that The Walrus was 
Paul. That aside, musically the song is a 
slow funky space trot with twinkling piano 
and echoes in the background.
The last song on the first side is 
Fashion. Fashion is a real get-down 
funky dance song with outrageous guitar 
interludes-a throwback to that first great 
funk song, Fame. The first side, in 
entirety, is lively, rocking, and has a wonder
ful flow and continuity.
The second side, like the first, has five 
songs. However, the second side doesnt 
seem to be as captivating and desperate as 
the first sidethough three of the songs are 
really very good. Those songs are Kingdom 
Come (written by Tom Verlaire of Televi
sion), Because Youre Young featuring 
the slash and bash guitar playing of Peter 
Towshend, and Its No Game (Part 2). 
The other two songs, Teenage Wildlife 
and Scream Like A Baby are interesting 
though rather non-descript.
Throughout the albums ten songs, Mr. 
Bowies voice is strong and a little out of 
tune as always-his trademark. On my 
mind, Bowie is no great singer, but hes got 
the style, nerve and creativity. The musical 
backing is superb throughout and the 
recording is very clear, tight and succinct, 
rhe lyrics, while both autobiographical and 
fantastic, tend towards obscurity. Im a big 
Bowie fan and while I cant urge you to go 
see him in The Elephant Man on Broadway,
I do urge you to go out and expand your 
musical frontiers and hear what one of our 
great legendary eccentrics is doing.

---------------------------------------------------

AVv
Page 10The TartanNovember 11, 1980
The Pittsburgh Dance Councils Guest Artist Series will open at the Craft Avenue Theatre in the Pittsburgh 
Playhouse Theatre Center on November 14 at 8:00 p.m. with A Celebration of Dance.  Featured are Martine 
van Hamel (shown above), leading ballerina with American Ballet Theatre, Kevin McKenzie also of ABT, 
Gary Chryst of the Joffrey Ballet who recently starred in Broadway production of Bob Fosses Dane in , and 
four other leading American dancers. A second performance will be given on November 15. For ticket 
information phone the Pittsburgh Dance Council at 355-0330.7 hours of Our Hitler 
CurtaincalhDeath of a Salesman
Pittsburgh Public Theaters second 
production of the 1980-81 season is 
Arthur Millers landmark play about the 
loss of direction and purpose in middleclass America. Death of a Salesman opens 
tomorrow night, November 12, and will 
run through December 23.
The production is being directed by the 
Publics artistic director, Ben Shakman. 
Pittsburgh Public Theaters first show, 
Im Getting My Act Together, played to 
capacity audiences for its entire run, so, 
although student rush tickets are offered, 
it is advised to purchase your tickets as 
soon as possible to insure seating. For 
tickets and more information, call 323- 
1900. There is a special student price for 
tickets.
Carmen
George Bizets popular opera is Pitts
burgh Operas second production of this 
season. The music df Carmen is readily 
familiar to even those people who have 
never heard of the opera. The March of 
the Toreadors, has especially been pop
ularized in America through various 
media.
This production is a unique collabora
tion of three opera companies, The Cin
cinnati, Connecticut, and Pittsburgh, in 
a sharing of personnel and talent. Each
PRINTED DRINKING 
GLASSES.
Wording of your choice
minimum order 5 dozen @ $2.00 
a glass. Souvenir to make your 
occasion special
EVE: 921-8170; DAY: 921-3571
city will feature the same principals, sets 
and costumes, and orchestrations.
The production in Pittsburgh will fea
ture the n'ewly formed Childrens Chorus 
and the Pittsburgh Opera Chorus, com
posed of more than 50 members. Shows 
are on November 13 and 15 and tickets are 
still available at Heinz Hall.
Heinz Hall offers half-price student 
tickets beginning two hours before each 
performance. Call 281-0912 for tickets 
and information.
Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein
The first annual benefit performance 
of the International Poetry Forum will 
present Pat Carroll in her awardwinning, highly acclaimed performance 
in this one-woman show, which was an 
Off-Broadway success.
The one-woman play is an imaginary 
monologue by Gertrude Stein set on the 
eve of her eviction from the famous stu
dio at 27 rue de Fleurus. Stein reminisces 
about her life in Paris, her Californii 
childhood, studies at Harvard, her expa 
triatism, her discovery of Alice B. Toklas 
and that extraordinary relationship, and 
the famous people they entertained 
(Picasso, Matisse, Cezanne, the Fitzge
ralds and Ernest Hemingway).
Pat Carroll, who is probably most 
familiar for her role as an ugly stepsister 
in Rodgers and Hammersteins Cinder
ella won the Best Actress Award from the 
New York Drama Critics Circle Award.
Student tickets are $10 (as compared to 
the $50 and $25 regular price), and are 
available at the International Poetry 
Forum office (at Webster Hall) or by cal
ling 621-9893.
The performance is a benefit for the 
International Poetry Forum, which 
already this year had presented Princes 
Grace of Monaco and Edward Albee.
A major film event is coming to Pitts
burgh this Sunday. Our Hitler, a seven-hour 
multi-media meditation on the pheno
menon of Hitler, will be screened at 2:00 
p.m. at David Lawrence Hall on the Univer
sity of Pitt campus.
A momentus effort by German director 
Hans-Jurgen Syberberg, Our Hitler is 
neither a doccumentary nor a story, but an 
innovative marathon of various media that 
includes paintings and slides, newsreel foot
age, puppets and mannequins, and a multi
layered soundtrack that ranges from 
recorded speeches to symphonic excerpts.
The film is being presented in the United 
States by Francis Ford Coppola, and because ,
of its extraordinary length, it has only been 
shown in major cities until now. Our Hitler 
has received remarkable critical response in 
America; Susan Sontag, in an eight page 
review for the New York Review of Books, 
calls it one of the great works of art of the 
Twentieth Century.
Our Hitler is being presented in Pitts
burgh by the film section of the Carnegie 
Museum and the University of Pitt. Part I 
will be screened at 2:00 p.m. and Part II will 
be shown at 7:15 after a ninety minute 
dinner break. Admission is $8 for students. 
Tickets are available at the museum Film 
Section. Call 622-3212 for tickets and more 
information.
You Can Still Mate 
A Difference
While careers in public service may not be as fashionable 
as they were a decade ago, such careers can be very 
rewarding and personally satisfying.
After justlhree months of intensive training at The Institute 
for Paralegal Training, you will be prepared to work in govern
ment agencies, public service organizations and law firms as 
a Legal Assistant in the fields of Administrative and Public 
Law or Criminal Law. You will do work traditionally performed 
by attorneys. You will work in the dynamic field of govern
ment legislation and regulation and be involved in such areas 
as: Environmental Law, Food Drug and Health Law, Criminal 
Justice, Equal Opportunity, Welfare, Energy, and Product 
Safety Law.
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a 
Master of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of 
Law for all course work completed at The Institute.
We are the nation's first and most respected school for 
paralegal training, and since 1970, have trained more than
4,(XX) college graduates from across the country.
If you are a senior of high academic standing and looking 
for a meaningful career, contact your Placement Office for an 
interview with our representative.
We will visit your campus on: Wednesday, December 3
TheInstituteforParalegalTraining
235 South 17th Street 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 
(215) 732-6600
(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc )
Approved by The American Bar Association ' 
Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies 
through Antioch School of Law.
RING DAY!
ORDER YOUR TRADITIONAL 
CMU OR CIT RING ON 
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 12 
THURSDAY, NOV. 13
BOOKSTORE 10:00 AM - 4:00 PM $15.00 DEPOSIT REQUIRED 
SPECIAL ULTRHJM DISCOUNT 
ON THESE DAYS  SUPER 
TRADE-IN VALUES!
9
PIEGES & CLUST 
HERFF JONESDivision ol Carnation Company

---------------------------------------------------

Tartan harriers set 
for NCAA Regionals
Seven Tartan runners, a senior and six 
freshmen, will be representing CamegieMellon at the northeast Regionals of the 
NCAA Cross Country Champlionships. 
The Tartans, who were undefeated in dual 
meets this season and won the Presidents 
Athletic Conference title with the lowest 
score ever posted in the event, look to run 
strongly again at Lebanon Valley College in 
Annville, Pennsylvania this weekend.
The Plaid have done very well in regional 
competitions in the past, sending two 
runners, Craig Woolheater and Dario Donatelli, to the National Championships each 
of the last two years. Woolheater has since 
graduated but Donatelli, the senior, remains 
along with a crop of new talent that lias kept 
Coach Gary Meckley smiling all year.
Donatelli, a graduate of Central Catholic, 
is undefeated in dual meets this season and is 
ready for another shot at All-America 
honors. Twice he has fallen short of that 
goal.
The freshman corps is led by John Wessels who has shared first place honors with
Donatelli in several races this season includ
ing the conference championships. The Mt. 
Lebanon native will be joined by Central 
Catholic graduates Mike Short and Bob 
Dusch along with Art Ward John McGo
wan and Kevin Brewer. Short, McGowan 
and Brewer have each shared at least one 
race victory this year with Donatelli 
Wessels.
The prime objective of Coach Meckley 
and his Tartans is to qualify as a team for the 
NCAA Championship Race to be held at 
the University of Rochester in two weeks. 
The top five teams at the regional race 
move on to Rochester along with the top six 
individual runners not on a qualifying 
team. The Tartans toughest competition 
for team honors should come from Haverford College, Gettysburg College and Glassboro State who have all qualified in past 
years. A Tartan effort approaching the one 
they turned in at the PAC championships 
should be enough to let them reach their 
objective.
Dario Donatelli will be looking to qualify for the NCAA cross country championships for the third year in 
a row this Saturday at Lebanon Valley College.
PRESIDENTS ATHLETIC CONFERENCE FINAL STATISTICS
PassingGAttCompIntYdsTDRushingGAtt.Net Yds.
Yds per 
GameTD
Jeff Beer (B)727712718169912Tom Baldinelli (JCU)7184-, 712101.74
Charlie Cole (T)71285568366Bill Rainey (B)712950271.76
Randy Lamendola (A)6983965852Jeff Harrison (CMU)711547768.112
Mel Woodard (CWR)712850125763Steve Molnar (CWR)710146065.72
Kevin Hartman (JCU), 78728115353Bob Meyer (T)711043762.40
Rick Brown (CMU)7974465334Joe Calvini (W&J)79938354.71
Bill Krahe (W&J) .71014594411Rich Hurley (H)78133648.02
Jim Hoysick (H)7692453361Ron Lueschen (T)46429974.74
Bill Kiselick (CMU)3351912470Don Evans (H)44224962.31
Dana Gruver (H)7395042081Joe Vasalani (CMU)74923032.90
RecievingGNo.Yds
Catches 
Per GameTD
Denny Williams (B)7517257.36
Dale Grosso (B)7395945.63
Frank Yoho (W&J)7273053.80
Bruce Stiger (T)7193182.73
Dan Conway (CWR)7182332.50
Gary Frankhouser (B)6182353.01
Gary Drakulic (CMU)7142882.03
Rich Hurley (H)7141372.00
Jim Kick (T)7122101.73
Mike Miller (A)7121761.62
Eugene Tomasi (A)7121761.60
Tom Westerkamp (JCU)7122961.72
Torn Coniglio (CWR)7121541.72
Total OffenseGPlaysRushPass
Total
Yds/GameTD
Jeff Beer (B)72783416991733/247.62
Charlie Cole (T)7214136836972/138.83
Tom Baldinelli (JCU)7184712-712/101.74
Randy Lamendola (A)6178120585705/117.53
Rick Brown (CMU)7145167533700/100.01
Kevin Hartman (JCU)7148158533693/99.02
Jim Hoysick (H)786177336513/73.32
Bill Rainey (B)7129502-502/71.76
Mel Woodard (CWR)7137-86576490 70.01
Jeff Harrison (CMU)7115477-477/68.112
CM Us top rusher and receiver this year were Jeff Harrison (left) and Gary Drakulic. Harrison was also the 
PACs leading scorer.
PUNT RETURNS 
Kurt Peterson (B)
Kevin ODonnell (T) 
Gary Frankhouser (B) 
Mike Miller (A)
Max Regula (W&J) 
Perry Colosimo (CMU) 
Matt Stuczynski (CWR)
SCDRINGGIT* Rush Pass) XPTSFG2PISAFETYPTS
Jeff Harrison (CMU)712(12/0)001074INTERCEPTIONSGNO.YDS.
Bill Rainey (B)78(6 2)000048Steve Adams (B)7513
IXtmy Williams (B)76(0 6)001038Jeff McDowell (T)7445
^ PoatAa (CMin701650031Paul Wendell (JCU)7442
Torn Baldinelli (JCU)75(1 1)0000.10Chris Cherry (B)5414
B*H (HVIT701710029Chuck Ca tatua rite (JCU)7331
Roil Nwspwe aro NfC4H I 0)000024nTgT Ulattcwk? (B)7321
Jeff kktk (CWR) UK7K3 1)000024John McCarthy (T)7319
iwp SriwKki (JUT>7010I0022Irian lower 4CIIU)739
mro (W&J)7036002!Cakvi (H)736

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanNovember 11, 1980
when you wear Vintage clothing from 
CLUB ANONYMOUS
284 M0REW00D
BETWEEN CENTRE & BAUM
TUES/FR112-6 SAT 11-6
681-9387
Vintage Apparel for Ladies & Gents from 1890 to the1950s
Jennifer Donaldson was selected the MVP on this 
years volleyball team by her teammates.
Were looking for people who think smalL
Our Microelectronics Program at General Electric has immediate career openings for top electrical engineering BS and MS graduates.
We're committed to joining the leaders in the microelectronics industry, and as part of that program, we re spending $100 million to build an ultra sophisticated new GE Microelectronics Center at Research Triangle Park. North Carolina.
Right now, we're looking for key people to fill positions at the Center as well as at other General Electric microelectronics facilities.
Technical recruiters will be on campus Monday and Tuesday, November 10-11, to 
conduct interviews. Contact your campus Placement Office for the exact time and place.
Specific microelectronics openings at General Electric exist in: ? Integrated Circuit Design O VLSI Device Structure Design ? VLSI Process Development ? Integrated Circuit 
Application Engineering ? Integrated System Architecture ? Integrated Circuit Software Design
Advanced Microelectronics Operations General Electric
An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F
The loss placed CMU second in their 
of the tournament and matched them 
against the winners of the other pool, Seton 
Hill in the semifinals. Once again, the Tar
tans played a strong match and split the first 
two games before succumbing 16-14 in the 
third.
The Plaid finished the day with a con
vincing win over the Washington and JefLadies in the consolation game 
to place third overall.
Saturdays fine Tartan effort was led by 
senior Jennifer Casteand junior Jennifer 
Donaldson who named to the AllPennwood West team for their fine play in 
the tournament and all season. They were 
complimented by the play of sophomores 
Lia Keppeler and Jane Szwarc and freshman 
Liz Smith and Bonnie Stuart With five star
ters and sophomores Yvonne Chi and Sue 
Ann Illig returning, the Tartans should be 
in a position to take Pennwood West Title 
next season.
Keep
Red
Cross
Ready
npriCT
ENGINEERINGDRAFTINGSUPPLIES
355*0444
OPEN SAT. 10 to 5 P.M^
TOP NOTCH
ART MATERIALS. INC. 
819 PENN AVE ( PGH )
CALL 57*-2921CMU TRAVEL OFFICE
CAMPUS CONVENIENCESKIBO 40A
V-ballers place third in 
Pennwood tournament
After suffering two tough losses to the 
toumamentss eventual champion and 
runner-up, the Camegie-Mellon volleyball 
team had to settle for third in the Pennwood 
We$t Conference Womens Volleyball 
Tournament held this past Saturday at 
Bethany College. The host Bisons took this 
years title with Seton Hill finishing second.
Coach Jane Fisks Tartans started the day 
as the tournament third seed and opened 
play with an easy victory over seventhCarlow College and then faced the 
defending champions Bethany. The Tar
tans and Bisons split the first two games of 
the match and played very evenly in the 
third and deciding game before Bethany 
could else dut a 15-13 victory.

---------------------------------------------------

November 11, 1980The TartanPage 13
All-School touch football team to be chosen
by Wes Seeley
With the intramural touch football sea
son now completed, there is one more offi
cial act to be completedthe selection of the 
All-School team and most valuable player. 
Captains of all the Major League teams 
should pick up and fill out their ballots in 
the Intramural Office this week.
Soccer is underway with games being 
played nightly. Schedules are out and can be 
picked up in the IM office, all games should 
be played as scheduled. The commissioner 
I for soccer is Chris Wargo, phone 683-5728 or 
I 621-9144. - ' _ISix-person volleyball games should also 
I be played as they are scheduled. Please 
return all equipment to the IM equipment 
I? rool following the last game each night. 
1 Mike Pochan is the commissioner. He can 
I be reached at 683-0372.
I
The finals of water polo will be played 
I this week with SAE playing either the ComK puter Science Department or Phi Kappa 
I Theta. The commission is Chris Burke, 
| phone 682-9313.
Schedules for raquetball can be picked up 
in the IM office. Please turn in results as 
soon as the matches are played. Three singles games constitute a match. The commis
sioner is Jon Polansky, phone 372-2576.
Please get all table tennis games played on 
time and turn in scores to the IM office. 
Schedules can be picked up in the IM office. 
Dave Kusma is the commisssioner, phone 
578-4270.
A commissioner and more teams are still 
needed for intramural chess. Lets get chess 
started!
IM bowling is underway with games 
being rolled at Strand Alleys in Oakland on 
Saturday mornings. Please make sure that 
your team bowling fees are played. Sche
dules are out and can be picked up in the IM 
office. Dave Hecht is the bowling commis
sioner, phone 678-8968.
The final date for sumbitting a roster for 
intramural backgammon, three-person vol
leyball and darts has been extended to this 
afternoon at 4:30 PM. Backgammon still 
needs a commissioner. The commissioner 
for three-person volleyball is Mike Pochan, 
phone 683-0372 , and Sheila Dunham, 
phone 578-4751, is the commissioner for 
darts.
The next meedng of the IM board will be 
held on Thursday, November 20 at 12:30 
PM in the intramural office, room 104, 
Gym. Make sure your organization is repres
ented at this important meedng.
The student as consumer: 
What kind of rights?
continued from page 5 
1 student has an absolute right to rely upon 
I any statement of fact or policy by an autho
rized counselor, and to hold the institution 
f responsible if the communication is untrue.
Once registration has been completed, 
| students have the right to refuse any scheI dule change that inconveniences them. 
I That includes changes in the hour a class 
| meets; in the number of meetings per week; 
| and in the dates of quizzes, exams, and papi ers. It also includes speeding up lectures, 
running overtime, and holding extra class 
meetings.
Students also have the right to withdraw 
at any time without academic penalty; the 
right to credit for any substantial help ren
dered a professor on a scholarly project; and 
the right to academic freedom, due process, 
privacy, and the freedom to conduct their 
non-academic affairs as they please without
prejudice to their academic standing.
Enforcing Rights
Rights are worth nothing unless they can 
be enforced. Every institution must establish 
for its students the procedures for the protec
tion of those rights through the offices of a 
university ombudsman or in the courts.
Student rights in the classroom are analo
gous to the rights of any client-oonsumer. 
The implementation of those rights could 
be an important step in transforming higher 
education into the sort of growth industry 
that it could well become in the years ahead.
/. Wesley Miller is a freelance writer who 
lives in Springfield, Massachusetts. This 
article was reprinted, with permission, from 
the September 2,1980 issue of The Chroni
cle of Higher Education.  1980 by The 
Chronicle of Higher Education.
<030
November 20
the great american 
smokeout
American Cancer Society
SIX PERSON VOLLEYBALL STANDINGS
MAJOR LEAGUEWOMENS
WinLossWinLoss
Wild Bunch20Chi O Killers11
Ustalar20Zanzibar II11
FEVA2 1Pledge Power02
Ballbusters03Defiance20
SAE02
INTERMEDIATES
Up
DU
PLP
Zanzibar
Doherty Sioux
Smash
Down
Beta
ZBT
Theta Xi 
ZOO-A 
Doherty Darts 
Mech. Eng.
Win
3 
1
4 
0 
1
Win
0
2
3
0
1
1
Loss
2
2
0
4
3
Loss
1
1
0
1
2
2
Top
Servetta 
Shawn Galey 
Scobel 
HKN
Architecture
MINORS
Win
_ 1 
0 
1
2
2
Bottom Win
Mudge Men 1
Off w/Their Hands 1 
ZOO-B 0
Hawks 3
schlag 1
Loss
2
1
2
1
0
Loss
2
0
3
0
1
Next week:Fall 1980 
All-Conference 
Teams
Successful Careers 
Don't Just Happen
At the Institute for Paralegal Training we have prepared 
over 4,000 college graduates for careers in law, business and 
finance. After just three months of intensive training, we will 
place you in a stimulating and challenging position that offers 
professional growth and expanding career opportunities. As 
a Legal Assistant you will do work traditionally performed by 
attorneys and other professionals in law firms, corporations, 
banks, government agencies and insurance companies. 
Furthermore, you will earn graduate credit towards a Master 
of Arts in Legal Studies through Antioch School of Law for all 
course work completed at The Institute.
We are regarded as the nations finest and most prestig
ious program for training legal specialists for law firms, 
business and finance. But, as important as our academic 
quality is our placement result. The Institutes placement 
service will find you a job in the city of your choice. If not, you will 
be eligible for a substantial tuition refund.
If you are a senior in high academic standing and looking 
for the most practical way to begin your career, contact your 
Placement Office for an interview with our representative.
We will visit your campus on:
TheInstituteforParalegalTraining
236 South 17th Street 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103 
(215) 732-6600
(Operated by Para-Legal, Inc )
Approved by The American Bar Association
Programs Earn Full Credit Toward M.A. in Legal Studies 
through Antioch School of Law.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanNovember 11, 1980
Student Senate announces 
election procedures
Editors note: At a recent Student Senate 
meeting, a set of rules and regulations were 
established to govern the conduct of student 
elections on campus. Below is the text of the 
rules that will govern the upcoming elec
tions and any problems that may arise.
Rules, Regulations, Penalties and Proce
dures for the November 1980 Student 
Government Elections
A. Rules and Regulations:
1. The limit to campaign funds spent shall 
not be more than twenty (20) dollars for a 
candidate for Student Senate.
2. Neither the name nor the seal of the Uni
versity nor the Student Government Corpo
ration is to be used on letters or other written 
material in a manner that implies Univer
sity or Student Government support of a 
candidate.
3. There is to be no faculty, administration, 
or departmental interference in the student 
elections.
4. There is to be no campaigning within a 
(20) twenty foot radius of the polls.
5. A candidate can run for only one Student 
Government1 office in an election.
B. Penalties:
1. Violation of rule(s) A-l, A-2, A-3, will 
result in a 10% deduction of a candidates 
total vote count.
2. A candidates violation of rule A-4 will 
result in a 10% deduction of that candidates 
total vote count, and will subject that candi
date to disciplinary action by the University 
Disciplinary Committee (U.D.C.).
3. Any person caught intentionally destroy
ing a candidates campaign material will be 
subject to disciplinary action by the Election
Board (as approved by the U.D.C.).
4. Any student who attempts to vote more 
than once or attempts to vote for a candidate 
outside of his designated college will be sub
ject to disciplinary action by the U.D.C.
5. Any other action which compromises the 
conduct of a fair election by a candidate or 
his supporters may result in charges by the 
Election Board before the U.D.C.
C. Election Procedure;
1. In order to be considered as a candidate for 
Student Senate, a student must submit a 
valid petition.
2. In order to vote in a Student Government 
Election, a student must present a perman-1 
ent validated I.D. card.
3. There will be a polling place located at the 
grey matter in Skibo.
4. There will be three (3) pollworkers on 
duty at all times.
5. Pollworkers must be informed of and fol
low the rules as determined by the Election 
Board regarding the running of Student 
Senate Elections.
6. The ballots will be locked up at night.
7. The ballots will be counted immediately 
following the election.
8. The ballots will be counted twice by two 
separate groups under the supervision of the 
Dean of Students.
9. Tenative winners will be notified within 
twenty-four (24) hours after the close erf the 
election polls; final verification of winners 
will occur three (3) days following the clos
ing of the election polls.
10. In the event of a violation of election 
procedure, election verification will occur 
seven (7) days following the closing of the 1 
election polls.
-Q next to Cafe Steven B's
Whatever look is your look...
Ybu'll look better with a Great"X"precision haircut!
HAIRCUTS COLORING
(Wash-Cut-Blow)
1 1 00 237 Atwootf StrMt
  Across tht itrMt from
Oakland Pot Office 
M7-3S00
Mon.Tues. Wed. 10-7 
Thurs. Fri. 10-9
Sat 9-6 UNISEX HAIR SALON No Appointments
Close out on the rates at the 
Shadyside Nautilus Fitness 
Center located at the comer of 
College and Ellsworth.
6 months for $90.
PERMANENTS
2500
Whatever look is you - you'll look better with a 
Great "X" Precision haircut. Great X's method 
of precision cutting means we cut and shape 
your hair from the "inside out" so it looks 
better longer. Great X also specializes in perms, 
coloring, frosting and conditioning all at reason
able prices. Come into Great "X" today and 
see how much better you'll look tomorrow.
Call 363-0505
Nautilus 
Fitness Center

---------------------------------------------------

Events.
a.b.
November 13 
Thursday Film Arts
Swingtime! starring Fred Astaire and Ginger 
Rodgers. Dancer Astaire, who likes gambling 
more than saving money for marriage, finally 
commits himself to marrying a nice, dull girl. On 
the way to monetary success, however, he meets a 
glamorous dancing teacher (Rodgers) and com
plications ensue. This film contains the Bojangles of Harlem number, one of the most 
accomplished of all Astaire routines. In DH 2210 
at 6,8 and 10 p.m. $1 with CMU ID.
November 14 
Friday Films
Kramer vs. Kramer starring Dustin Hoffman and 
Meryl Streep. In DH 2210. $1 with CMU ID.theater
November 12 through December 21 
Death of a Salesman
The second producdon of Pittsburgh Public 
Theaters 1980-81 season, following the enor
mous success of Im Getting My Act Together 
and Taking It On The Road. There are student 
rush rickets available, although reservations are 
suggested. 323-1900 for rickets and information. 
November 13 and 15 
Carmen
Georges Bizets classic opera returns to Pitts
burgh for the Pittsburgh Operas second produc
tion of the 1980-81 season. 8 p.m. at Heinz Hall. 
281-0912 for rickets and information. Unsold 
tickets are available to students at half price two 
hours before each performance.
October 30 through November 23
Dont Walk Around Stark Naked and The
Bald Soprano
Theatre Express presents two one act plays for 
the opening production of its 1980-81 season. 
The plays are French farces by Georges Fey
deau and Eugen Ionesco, respectively. 621 - 
5454 for tickets and information.
October 23 through November 16 
Swellfoots Tears
A Pittsburgh Laboratory Theatre Production. 
Suggested by the Oedipus Tragedy. A powerful, 
but not a pretty play, in the playwrights (Leon 
Katz) own words. At the Labs new home, The 
Lion Walk Performing Arts Center. Thursday 
through Sunday at 8 and Sunday at 2:30. 621- 
2876 for tickets and information.music
A 
PITCH
Effective Immediatly 7 dinner 
Contract Holders are now entitled to 
any 9 meals each week, this plan 
continues through the Spring 
Semester. Plan changes for the spring 
will be accepted until Nov. 18. 
Valedine accounts and existing plans 
will be continued without 
notification.
November 16
Carnegie-Mel Ion Philharmonic Orchestra
At Carnegie Music Hall in Oakland. On 
November 23, the CMU Philharmonic will per
form along with the CMU chorus at Carnegie 
Music Hall in New York City! The Nov. 16 
concert is at 8:00 p.m.filmSDC Films
November 11, tonight
CMU Contemporary Ensemble
The Ensemble will premier four works by CMU 
students. The original works and composers are: 
Four Processional Dances by Asher Raboy; 
Big Town Rhythm by Suezette Rice; Flute 
Fancy by Gregory Maskalick; and Little Dan
ces by Denise Ondishko. 8 p.m. in the Alumni 
Concert Hall of the College of Fine Arts.
November 13 
Frank Zappa
DiCesare Engler Productions will present the 
Man from Montana, fVeak rock artist on 
Thursday, November 13 at the downtown 
Stanley Theater. Zappa, currently touring in 
support of his latest venture, Joes Grage Parts I 
and II, will perform two shows Thursday night. 
Tickets are available at the Stanley box office and 
National Record Marts.
November 14
Renaissance City Woodwind Quintet
The program features two commissioned works 
by the Quintet, which includes various CMU 
alumni. 8 p.m. in the Alumni Concert Hall of the 
College of Fine Arts. Free.
November 14,16 and 17 
An Evening With Cole Porter
A concert by the Pittsburgh Symphony Pops, 
directed by Robert Page. Guest soloist will be 
Glynn Page, soprano, a CMU professor in 
music-theater. Friday and Sunday nights at 8 
p.m. and Monday night at 7:30 p.m. For ticket 
information call the Heinz Hall Box Office at 
281-5000.
November 15
What Do You Say To A Naked Lady? at 6,8,10 
and 12 in DH 2210. $.50 with CMU ID.
Carnegie Institute Film Series
November 11 v
Fellini Series
Fellini-Satyricon, adapted from Petronius novel 
about the decadent court of Nero, 8:00 in the 
Lecture Hall. $1.50.
November 13 
Collection Screening
Dog Star Man by Stan Brakhage. Describes the 
birth of consciousness, the cycle of the seasons, 
mans struggle with nature .and sexual balance in 
the visual evocation of a fallen titan...the Dog 
Star Man. 8:00 p.m. in the Museum of Art 
Theater. Free.
November 16 
Special
Our Hitler, a 7 hour epic film in its Pittsburgh 
premiere. Hans Jurgen Syberbers personal medi
tation on the nature of Nazi tyranny, and of our 
relationship to the nightmare. Shown in two 
p>arts with a 90 minute dinner break. Part I at 2:00 
p.m., Part II at 7:15 p.m. In David Lawrence Hall 
at the University of PittsburghAdvance rickets 
available at the Carnegie Museum Film Section.
award for Best Actress for her portrayal erf the 
famous author. Tickets for this special presenta
tion are available at the Poetry Forum (in Webs
ter Hall, at Fifth and Dithridge) or by calling 
621-9893. Ticket prices for this benefit are in the 
range of Broadway show prices.
November 14 and 15
*A Celebration of Dance ^
The opening production of the Pittsburgh 
Dance Councils Guest Artist Series. The Celebra
tion ensemble is a unique alliance of dancers 
from several major American companies. 8:00 in 
the Craft Avenue Theatre in the Pittsburgh Play
house Theatre Center. Tickets on sale at Heinz 
Hall and the Pittsburgh Playhouse. 355-0330 for 
more information.art
Campus Galleries
November 11 through 16
Jane Dudley, Sue Helwig, John Me Williams
and Sue Ritzau
At the Forbes Street Gallery, Forbes Avenue at 
Margaret Morrison Street. The exhibit will 
represent works from both the Illustration and 
Design Departments. Gallery hours are Wednes
day through Sunday, Noon to 4, and a Tuesday 
night opening, with refreshments, 7 to 10.
Through November 14 
Kathleen Mulcahy
A faculty exhibit in the Ellis Gallery, in the Col
lege of Fine Arts. Gallery Hours are Monday 
through Friday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. Free.
special
No\ ember 19 
Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein, Gertrude Stein
A special benefit performance of the Interna
tional Poetry Forum. The show features Pat Car
roll who received the New York Drama Critics
A Philip Pelusi Haircut 
for $6.00!!
Register for hair cutting classes. 
Call 261-6550 or stop by our 
salon in 
Squirrel Hill, The Bank Center
$
Ideili01
A Production of Th Minnesota Public Radio National Program Servie

---------------------------------------------------

Announcements.
classifiedofficial
Resume Development-Interview Technique
Professional typing also available please call 
Jane at X3716 before 9:30 AM or 371-0946 after 
6:00 PM.
Used teletypes for sale. Model 33. $75 each. Call 
X2835 between 9 and 5.
Typing. Term papers, letters, dissertations, etc. 
Call Shirley, 521-0534, before 9 PM if possible. 
Cash:Wanted 10,000 Wrecks and Junkers, 23 
hrs. 422-9968
Professional typing at reasonable rates. Specialize 
in last minute work. Dissertations, manuscripts, 
term papers, statistical, etc. Call 371-3657. 24 hr. 
service, IBM Selectric.
Moving and light hauling; campus based and 
reasonable. Call late evenings 687-3062.
Want it done right?
Typing, editing, professionally prepared by a 
Ph.D graduate. Reports, manuscripts, theses, dis
sertations. Prompt, efficient, reasonable. IBM 
Executive. Susan, 963-7558. Call after 4 PM.
A program on the current issue of hazardous 
waste management will be presented at the Sierra 
Club meeting, Wednesday, November 12th at 
7:30 PM in the Garden Center at Fifth and Shady. 
The public is invited.
Oakland/Shadyside-Charming one bedroom 
apartment with carpeting, appliances, parking 
and all utilities paid. Only $309.00, call today 
682-7010.Qakland Shadvside-One, two, three bedroom 
apartments availble in excellent buildings with 
carpeung, appliances and parking. Utilities 
paid. 682-7070.
Silver coins wanted! Highest prices in
town paid for your silver coins. No amount too
small. After 5 PM call 521 -2749.
John Crecine, Dean of H&SS holds open office 
hours Tuesday, 1:30 to 3:30 PM.
President Richard M. Cyert will have open office 
hours for students between 3 and 5 PM, in his 
office on Monday, December 1. Students who 
wish to meet with the president should telephone 
his office, 578-2200, to set up an appointment.
It is hoped that this program will be a benefit to 
both the president and the students in allowing 
direct contact with him.
The course Christianity and Science, 80-260,9 
units, will again be offered in the Spring of 1981 
as part of the philosophy program. Registration 
will be handled by the History Department. For 
additional information, contact one of the 
instructors: Professor Griffiths (Physics), Science 
Hall 6309, ext. 2765; Professor Laughlin (Metal
lurgy), Science Hall 3307, ext. 2706.
The Economics Department will offer the fol
lowing courses during Spring Semester: 73-100 
Principles of Economics, 73-250 Intennediate 
Microeconomics, 73-300 Intermediate Macroeco
nomics, *73-345 Industrial and Labor Relations, 
*73-353 Cooperative and Non-Cooperative Mod
els of Political Processes, 73-355 Resource Alloca
tion in Political Processes, 73-359 Benefit Cost 
Analysis, 73-365 Industrial Organization, *73- 
410 The Economics of Business Cycles, *73-430 
Topics in the Economics of Uncertainty, 73-458 
Money and Banking. (An asterisk (*) indicates a 
new course). Course desciptions for all Econom
ics courses are available in the Departmental 
Office, Porter Hall, 219D. If you would like more 
information about the Economics program, see 
the Undergraduate Advisor, Professor Robert J. 
Hodrick, at PH 219C on Tuesdays,!:30-4:00 PM.
The Bookstore will begin returning unsold text
books to publishers on November 10. Please plan 
to purchase now any texts you will need forthe 
remainder of the semester. Texts will not be retur
nable to the Bookstore after November 10.
The Health Professions Program will have a 
meeting Monday, Nov. 17, 1980 at 7:15 PM in 
Skibo Room 45. The program will feaure an 
administrator and a physician of the West 
Allegheny Osteopathic Hospital.
club
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center Inc. offers students, 
graduate students, faculty and all university staff and their child
ren, the opportunity for evaluation for insight-oriented psychother
apy at $25.00 per evaluation session. Subsequent therapy, if 
appropriate, is offered on a sliding fee scale. *
FOR APPOINTMENT CALL 
Mrs. Brown, 661-2300 
Medical Center East Building 
211 North Whitfield Street 
Pittsburgh, PA 15201
Scotch n Soda Informational Meeting about the 
Spring Musical and Current Activities, Tuesday, 
9:00 PM, Room 11, Skibo.
Eat, drink, and make merry!!! Come to an Irish 
dinner sponsored by the International Student 
Organization to be held on Sunday, November 
16 from 6:00 to...in the Morewood Rec Room. 
Tickets are $4.50 pier person for the buffet style 
dinner featuring an Irish main entree and diverse 
dishes and desserts from around the globe. There 
will be a free lecture op>en to all at 7:30. The topic 
is Green vs. Orange: the war in Ireland. for 
tickets call Jim at x3043 or drop a note in campus 
mail addressed to ISO, Box 181 Baker Hall. 
Include name, address, phone number and a 
check made payable to ISO. No, you do not have 
to wear green.
November 12,1980 Nachtdienst (Color, German 
dialogue with English subtitiles, 64 minutes) 
The story of a wealthy old ladv who pays gener
ously for having a nurse each night. When one 
evening a young nursing student takes over as a 
substitute, a sort of nightly duel develops 
between the critical young girl and the old 
woman, who is quite versed in the entire repiertoire of social oppression. Directors: Edward 
Zebrowski and Krystof Zanussi. Starring: Elisa
beth Bergner, Jagwiga Jankowska-Cieslac, Elisa
beth Gobel, Sky Dumond,
Any student (preferably workstudy) interested in 
working at the election px>ll in Skibo during the 
Student Senate Elections Nov. 19th and 20th 
please contact Carol Marble at x4950. There is no 
limit to the number of hours which can be 
worked; Pays $3.10 an hour.
Scotch-n-Soda will be havinga Sodieon Wednes
day November 12 in Room 11 at 8;15 PM. We 
will read and criticize one act plays. Everyone 
welcome.
Students interested in learning about study 
abroad with the American Institute for Foreign 
Study are invited to join in a discussion on Tues
day, November 18, at 1:00 PM in BH 161. Early 
sign-up with Dean Lloyd will be appreciated. 
Explorers Club - Anyone who is interested in 
whitewater rafting, climbing, hiking, caving, 
backpacking, skydiving, hang gliding, or any 
other outdoor activity is welcome. Meetings are 
on Thursdays, at 6:30, Skibo Rm. 11 
Join us at lunch in the Kiltie Cafeteria on 
Wednesdays at Noon! The Department of Engi
neering and Public Policy invites interested CIT 
Freshmem and EPP students to join us at a 
reserved lunch table with your lunch every Wed
nesday to meet EPP faculty and staff. BE 
THERE!
general
The Communication Skills Center offers free 
individual instruction for students at all levels 
and in all colleges who need help with any aspiect 
of writing. You can get tailor-made programs 
focused on specific writing and thinking skills, 
help in preparing and revising assignments, help 
with research projects, applications, and 
resumes, and computer-assisted in traction. Call 
or come in to make an appointment with a 
faculty member 161 Baker Hall, x2924, Monday 
through Friday, 9:00 to 4:00.
Campus Progam Planning Events film seriesConnection. Two showings 11:30 and 1:30 
Wherrett Room. Wed. Nov. 19 Distant Voices, 
Wed. Dec. 3 Faith in Numbers.
Nov. 14, 5:30 PM Campus campaign, planning 
meeting and dinner at UJF. RSVP 621-8875. 
Nov. 15, 9-2 AM Chatham-Hillel Dance, Mellon 
Center Cafeteria. Bus service will be provided. 
Meet in front of Skibo, bus will arrive shortly 
after 9 PM. Nov. 16,5 PM P.FZ. dinner Forum af 
Hillel. Topic: Neo-Nizism
Airline jobs - free info Nationwide - 
write Airline Placement Bureau 4208 198th SW 
#101 Lynnwood, WA 98036. Enclose a self 
addressed stamped large envelop.
FOR THOSE ONC&IN-A-UFETIME SNAPSHOTSr i
MAKE SURE YOUR FILM IS IN THE RIGHT HANDS
At ASA  Photo we take great pride in the quality of our work. 
ASA Photo is the only photo processor in Pittsburgh that 
allows you to watch your own film being developed. So, whether 
youre a professional 35 MM photographer or a weekend snapper, 
ASA  Photos the place for you.
...  Same day service on
ektachrome film
 cast, fast service on 
all (her films.
 Glossy prints at no 
extra charge at all 
110,126,135 film.
 Instant color 
passports photos.
;
; Bece'* * 0\\ ;
; <ep* PI tteS -nCe * ... y* tt* Pr\ *003**. *aX ,roW"^ *
>eveiV 'rteMe'oped \\W de .^*r . *r
4SPPHOVO3527 FORBES AVENUE 
681*1720
Tonight 8-9 PM
w
R 
C 
T 
8
8
.3
ZAPPA!

---------------------------------------------------

Volume II / Number 2

---------------------------------------------------

DOSSIER
Now that you know what Dossier is, wed like to reiterate our plea for help. We need people of all backgrounds, interests, and talents* Remember, you dont have to be a writer or an artist to help Dossier -- simply, wed like your ideas and suggestions.In an attempt to broaden Dossiers appeal, we want to expand the science coverage in our articles. So, in addition to humanities and the arts writers, our search has begun for science writers and illustrators. Again, specific article ideas from students and faculty, especially concerning science and technology at CMU, will be gready appreciated. Our goal is to discuss developments and controversy in all branches of science, from creating new life with genetic engineering to ending current life with laser beam weaponry.A science staff meeting is scheduled for 7 PM this Thursday in the 
Tartan's main office, Room 50, Skibo. If youre interested but unable to attend, leave a note with your name and phone number in the Tartan office.Dossier urges you to participate in what we feel is a tremendous outlet for your talents. Please stop by our office in The Tartan and let us in on your ideas. Wed like the opportunity to enhance Dossier, and that will only be accomplished if you take a chance and get involved.
Dossier Staff
Editor: Lynn EpsteinArt Directors: Tom Weinkle, Craig OttoIllustrators: Elisabetta Toiossi (p. 4), Bari Harmon (p. 10-11)Cover Design: Jenny McChesney
In This Issue
3 Opportunity knocks
In this months editorial, Lynn Epstein discusses students lack of interest in extra-curricular opportunities available on campus.
A TaleJohn Bender, a fine arts major, writes what he calls an adult fairy tale in this wild and imaginative story about a 
grief-stricken nun.
Old Man on Fifth and Ivy
Carolyn Toth, a senior in creative writing, offers a vivid 
description of a flavorful old man in this poem.
6 Design and Computers
As a result of his attendance at the annual IDSA (Industrial 
Designers Society of America) conference, CMU Design 
Professor Alessandro De Gregori presents the current status of computers as problem-solving tools in the realm of design.
8 Edward EberleIn an interview with reporter Renee Rosenfeld, Edward Eberle, Head of the CMU Ceramics Department, discusses the concepts behind his sculptures. To get a closer look at Eberles work, visit Carnegie Institutes Museum of Art where his sculptures are currently on display.
9 Good Form
Looking back at old product design and theory can often be 
a humorous experience. In this article, excerpts from a 1959 
issue of Autocar magazine show how efforts to apply 
technology can often lead to misguided designs. Have a good 
chuckle over the concept of aeronautically-designed automo
biles, an idea in auto design that is, in retrospect, amusing.
10 Suede Blue Eyes
In this painfully realistic story, Paul Smith studies the 
reaction and relationships of a man betrayed in love and 
friendship.
A NEW PRICING POLICY FROMTHE SALADQniawiif
(Atwood Street, OaklQnd Location Only)
The COMPANY SALADNOW
Our standard salad, served daily. A heaping bowl < jm
with variety of lettuces and vegetables A real ^ B # jr
inflation fighterdollar and pound-wise
The CORPORATE SALAD...........NOW
Extra dividends for a hearty appetite Atwood
Marinade. Eve's First Year. Orient Express, Orange 
Earth are just a partial inventory
The EXECUTIVE SALADNOW
Decisions, decisions, decisions No wonder Fruit 
Melange, Dorian's Delight, Salad Nicoise, Chunky 
Cheese, to name a few
Three Delicious Salads Available Each Day 
From Our List Of 32 Creative Offerings.
Made Fresh Daily...Completely Vegetarian...Free Condiment Bar
Hot soup, toofrom broccoli soup to vegetable soup made from scratch!
Lettuce Serve Ybu
235 Atwood Street (Near Oakland Post Office) 
Mon-fn 830AM to 6 00 P M Sot 11 00AM to700PM621-0166

---------------------------------------------------

3
by Lynn Epstein
Surprisingly enough, when opportunity knocks 
on this campus, most students turn the other cheek. 
To be sure, opportunity will not come to your door 
wearing a tux and tails and carrying a silver platter, 
but the way it does present itself here is almost as 
obvious. Unless you walk around campus with 
Q-tips in your ears, a bandana on your eyes, and a 
gag in your mouth, it is impossible not to recognize 
opportunity. Promotional activities, The Tartan, 
lectures, dances, clubs, and committees are only a 
few of the everyday occurences that are studentplanned from start to finish, and, according to pop
ular student comment, there is much room for 
improvement.
But maybe this lack of involvement is not so 
surprising, for some things never change. Despite 
the high school record of leadership and involve
ment which helped everyone gain admission to 
CMU, there is still only approximately five percent 
of all students who reach for available opportuni
ties. These chiefs are carrying their leadership quali
ties into college life, but what about the other 
chiefs? The high school chiefs? The remaining 95% 
of CMUs student population has dropped out of 
the race, or is challenging the adage that to c hange 
the system, one must do it from the inside.
One of the more obvious reasons for discontinu
ing involvement once at college rests on workload. 
High school was easy, but here 1 have to work 
twice as hard, or even, High school was tough 
enough, but at CMU its impossible. This is a 
valid excuse for perhaps 50% of the uninvolved 
students.
But if youre not just trying to keep your head 
above water, then the reason may be more egooriented. Part of the answer lies in the abstract term 
quality, which is determined through competi
tion or at least comparison. Something akin to the 
Design Deparunents philosophy, If you cant run 
with the big dogs, sleep on the porch, applies here. 
You were top dog, high quality in high school, but 
at CMU you were put in the nice with a hundred 
other No. 1 s and Best Artists. Its a matter of quality 
as to whos the best here and now. Past laurels will 
not win you status in college; they only give you the 
opportunity to compete in a tougher environment.
And so these students who are crushed by the 
competition, or who are even plain frightened to 
enter it, refuse to act as either chiefs or Indians. Loss 
of an old status results in embarrassment and, 
further, in a reevaluation of personal qualities. 
Whether trying to avoid another failure or purely 
out of spite, many of these ex-chiefs discontinue all 
involvement. And as for the other students who are 
frightened of the competition, they are really afraid 
of facing a possible first failure. Of course*, nobody 
likes to fail, but, as the old saying goes, You never 
know until you try.
All in all, then* seems to lx a general complaint 
by students concerning student apathy, yet few are 
disposed to improve the situation. Many lament the 
loss of the 60s ac tivism, and a few are trying to buck 
the system by refusing to partic ipate in its organiza
tions, and then going out on their own. In a se nse, 
this method is like cutting off your nose to spite 
your face, because those* who are uninvolved are 
throwing away a general opportunity to develop 
iheir potential and, in an American spirit, to get 
ahead. Although getting ahead in the sense of the 
system is exactly what is distasteful, going out on 
your own simply improves your own situation. It
dcx*s nothing to refonn or recruit others towards 
your ideas. The result is usually self-advancement 
with little community improvement. Few artists are 
interested in creating purely for themselves, and 
since most have an idea or niocxl to communicate, 
public involvement is a necessary outlet to receive 
practical experience and feedback. In other words, 
by joining the system, you may find an outlet for 
your work or interest that a classroom cannot 
provide.
Students must realize that the* '60s was a jxiicxl 
when students were united, and the 70s and begin
ning 80s are* a pe*ricxl of selfish individualism. The* 
c urrent lac k of involvement is more emphasized by 
this trend of selfishness than it was in the* jxtst. 
Everyone wants to do what he wants to do, regard
less of others, and wha^is even more emphatic of 
this idea is that college is a time of self-exploration 
and self-improvement. When so many people's 
goals are* self-oriented, they wall themselves up and 
ignore the* possibilities of improving their campus 
while also improving themselves. It is all well and 
gcxxl for an artist or vvrite*r to retreat to his studio 
and spend hours at work by himself. That sort of 
study is necessary, but it dex*s not exc lude participa
tion in the literary or artistic outlets of the* campus.
Whether you take advantage of campus opponuni 
ties purely out of selfishness or for the improvement 
of the* university, DO IT, because that five percent 
that art* involved now are going to be even more 
diluted proceeding graduation. In other words, you 
have every indication to believe this pattern of weed
ing the chaff from the wheat will be* replicate*d in 
die outside world, and any annor in the* way of 
experience that you can gather will help make the 
real world less overwhelming.

---------------------------------------------------

by John Bender
side from the nun, the huge stone church was 
empty.' She stood at the heart of its massive, dark interior. The 
size of the surrounding silent space accentuated her singularity 
and the silence and the church waited for her to move, to 
make a sound, waited to be filled with echo.
After a time, the sound came, the sweet voice of Sister Lucille as 
she spoke to the severed head cradled in her hands.
"You accuse me with your eyes, dear brother. You wont speak, 
but your eyes disown me.
Her left hand supporting, her right hand shifted over the head, 
rustling its curled brown hair. Her thumb and fingers came across 
the bleached face where the eyes glared, and with her fingertips she 
very gently forced the lids down and shut.
The silence had returned. From where she held the head against 
her, at just above the waist, it dripped thick, dark blood down on to 
the lower portion of her white habit.
Lucille studied the face now, for it had changed. Before, the eyes 
were open, now they were closed. Reaching a secret decision, she 
spoke.
"You are sleeping, Pietro.
Sister Lucilles expression showed contentment for a few 
moments, then, her brow creased as part of a frown.
"Or are you pretending to be asieep? How am I to know? If you 
are not truly asleep, you are ignoring me.
She lifted her gaze from the unmoving face.
"You are ignoring me. I understand. I know why you are doing 
this, Pietro.
Her eyes not focusing, Lucille walked unsteadily towards a stone 
bench. She sat. Her warm hands framed her brothers head where it 
nested firmly in her lap.
o
"Do you remember, Pietro, do you remember how I used to sing 
you to sleep? I never made you ask, and Ive always known what 
pleases you.
She began to sway, ever so gently, slowly, from side to side, as if 
by the waves of a calm sea. She hummed a melody from her 
childhood, and then softly sang the lyrics. Her pink lips swelled and 
thinned, forming each word very carefully in the manner of a 
student performing for the instructor. The beautiful strains filled 
the church, circling round and round in the great cold stone hall 
and deep in the girls ears. Her eyes slowly closed and she might 
have sung herself to sleep, but a heavy pounding rudely shattered 
her bizarre reverie. Sister Lucille bolted upright and almost stared 
at the noise. It continued, louder and more insistent. She rose and 
went to one of the few tall windows, possessively clutching the head 
to her breast. Leaning out into the brightness, she saw, two stories 
below, her Mother Superior, three soldiers and their four steeds. 
They had dismounted and were standing at the entrance to the 
church, but could not enter for Lucille and locked the gate.
The Mother strained under arthritis to look up.
"Sister Lucille, please come down and open the gate.
The old womans head was wagging as if she were indicating no. 
"Please, child. We have come to take you home.
In order to relieve the strain of looking up, the Mother Superior 
had been slowly walking backwards while addressing Lucille. She 
stumbled and almost fell, but was caught by the nearest soldier.
One of the other men, who had been constraining the horses, 
suddenly let go of the reins, shot his finger at Lucille, and shouted. 
"Look, she does have it! Shes holding the thing in her hands! 
The Mother Superior waved her hand sharply.
"Be silent! You will say things to frighten her. Then, in a softer 
voice, "Sister Lucille, we know that you have your brothers... 
She did not finish the sentence.
"We know that you had the forest boy bring it to you.
Sister Lucilles mind reacted strongly to the mention of the 
forest boy. The four figures below her dissolved, to be replaced by a 
vision of an encounter from earlier the same day. She saw the forest 
boy before her, staring at her blankly. His bare feet were calloused, 
with long, yellow nails curling over the black toes. His fingers too 
had nails like daws. Lucille amid see the lice skittering through the 
oily matted hair that grew down over his face like wild weed. His 
appearance and odor no longer shocked Lucille. She had been 
secretly feeding him for quite some time, and he trusted her. She 
alone believed that he could understand speech.
"You must do something for me. It is very important, and it is 
very important that you understand what I will tell you."
She wanted to reach out and touch his shoulder, but then 
considered the gesture might startle him.
'The people of the town are holding my brother, Pietro. They 
want to kill him. They want to kill him because,...It is my fault, a 
terrible mistake.
Tears filled Sister Lucilles eyes, her desperation increasing as 
she spoke.
"They are going to kill him this afternoon, in the center of town, 
at noon. When the sun is highest. She pointed to the sky. "But 
you will stop them. You can do it, you are strong! We call you boy 
but you have the body of an animal, as strong as any mans!
You will go to town today and save my Pietro. Bring him to the 
church, I will be waiting there.
The forest boy raised his crusted arm and touched a finger to one 
of the tears on Lucilles cheek. She was not aware of the contact. 
She continued speaking.
"We will be safe in the church, in the House of God. Pietro will 
have time to think.
The hours passed and the forest boy was alone, crouched in the 
dark of an alley near the center of the town. He was look at his 
finger, the one he had touched to Lucilles cheek. He brought the 
fingertip close to his face for intense examination. Perhaps the 
special water from the beautiful women in white had seeped 
through his own skin and now was inside him, making her a part of 
him. This possibility pleased him. He smiled. He was pleased also 
that his memory allowed him to hear Lucilles voice over and over 
again in his mind. Remembering, he suddenly rose and walked out 
into the light of day. The sun was very high, he shielded his eyes as 
he looked at its location in the cloudless sky.
In the town square, a few minutes before the execution was to 
take place, people noticed the forest boy inching towards the 
guillotine scaffold. They assumed that he had come out of the 
woodland to pick pockets in the crowd that had gathered. Those 
who knew he was about kept a hand on their money pouch.
Almost the entire population had come to see Pietro Armand, 
the brother to one of their beloved Franciscan nuns, put to death. It 
was five minutes till noon when Pietro arrived, escorted by the 
town dignitaries.
Despite ill-fitting peasant clothes, Pietro was a striking young 
man. He maintained an erect posture, and his expression, although 
betraying anger and grief, displayed no fear.
The Mayor ascended the steps to the top of the scaffold, and 
standing in front of the guillotine, he read aloud an announcement 
of the charges and sentence passed. Finishing, he turned, shooed 
away two birds that had alighted atop the suspended blade, and then 
stood back, his hands behind him. The Mayor, like all those he 
served, was proud of the guillotine. By vote, the townspeople had 
chosen the death-device over a sewerage system. It was the only 
one within a months travel.
Pietro was lead up the steps, and after a few prayers by Father 
Joseph, was made to lie on his stomach and his neck was secured by 
a wooden brace. A short drum roll, the sound of many people 
drawing their breath, then, the blade fell.
As no basket had been employed, the head rolled off the scaffold 
and onto the ground, where the forest boy was waiting. He scooped 
it up with both hands and ran like a fox. The element of surprise 
was on his side, for it was several moments before any soldiers took 
off after him. They lost him completely when he slithered through 
a hole under the wall surrounding the parish garden.
When the soldiers returned to the town square, everyone was 
milling about debating why the forest boy had taken the severed 
head. Some said he was going to give it to the animals who had 
raised him. Others, that he was going to eat it himself.
Mother Superior was speaking to the Mayor and townsmen. She 
told them that, much disturbed by thoughts of her brothers 
impending death, Sister Lucille had left for the church, the Mother 
felt she knew where the boy was taking the head.
A tense voice cut through Lucilles daydream. Images faded and 
reality began to flood her senses.
"Sister Lucille! Sister Lucille! Please respond child!
She found herself standing at the tall window, still clutching the 
head. Mother Suf>erior was growing impatient.
"Sister Lucille, you will unlock this gate. If you do not, these 
men shall have to break it down. The church belongs to God, you 
will not have it damaged by yofir stubborness.
Lucille made no sign of acknowledgement. The shifting light cast 
her face in shadow. Mother Superior decided to be coldly realistic.
"We must have all of your brother in order to bury him 
properly.
Lucille noticed that the soldiers tunics matched the color of the 
blood that was caking on her hands and garment. Nausea struck. 
She pulled in from the window and leaned against the wall. Her 
back slid down the wall until she was sitting on the floor. She tilted 
the head so that it faced her.
"Im sorry Pietro. Im sorry that it is all my fault. I can tell that 
you are angry.
She waited for a reply.
"Do not scold me, Pietro.
Her tears fell onto the dead flesh.
"I will tell you the truth. You must listen, I will tell you the truth99now.
Lucille took a deep breath and tried to calm herself. She let her 
thoughts drift back, flashes of faces, gestures, expressions, and 
many voices came and went like sunlight through the leaves of a 
windblown tree. Out of this confusion she found the desired 
moment, herself, kneeling in a darkened booth. On the other side of 
a wood grille in a duplicate booth, a priest is silent. Lucille waits. 
She cannot think of anything more to say. The priest must be 
carefullly probing his soul to find the most appropriate words of 
advice. She begins to feel hopeful. Perhaps this man shall be able to 
ease her conscience.
The priest stirs, unexpectedly she hears the door to the adjoining 
booth opened, and then the door to the confessional in which she 
kneels is opened. Father Joseph stands before her, illluminated by 
the flickering light from dozens of candles. Lucilles first impluse is 
to reach out and close the door before the priest has time to 
recognize her, before he realizes who she is. Father Joseph steps 
away from the door.
"Come with me, Sister.
Father Joseph called an emergency session of the Town Council, 
comprised of himself, the Mother Superior, the Mayor, and Town 
Elders.
Lucille sat facing these at the head of the long table in the dining 
room of the Mayors home. Her back to the windows, the incoming 
light, cast and stretched her shadow over the surface of the table, its 
rectangular contour making a perfect frame for the silhouette. 
The others seated, Father Joseph was standing.
"Sister Lucille, tell the members of the Council what you told me 
earlier.
Lucille looked puzzled.
"I dont know,....
Her mind raced. She was refusing to accept that he was refering 
to what she had revealed in confession.
Father Joseph held a Bible with both hands.
'Tell them what you told me just an hour ago.
Not wanting his presentation to loose its momentum, he didnt 
wait for Lucilles response. Turning to the members, he deepened 
his voice for dramatic effect.
"I will tell you. Heed my shocking words. This young bride of 
Christ revealed to me that she had been the victim of rape, at the 
hands of her own brother!
'Thats not true! Thats not what I said, thats not what 
happened!
Lucille felt all their eyes burning into her. She sank back into her 
chair, repeating, almost in a whipser,
'Thats not what happened.
Everything that would transpire from here on became a dream 
for Lucille. A slowly thickening dream, quietly becoming heavier, 
more dense, more inescapable as time unraveled. As Lucille sat 
motionless, the meeting continued. Questioned as to just what 
Lucille had said, Father Joseph repeated her confession, almost 
word for word. Lucille listened to the story of her past as recited by 
another. She and Pietro grew up together. Without parents, they 
survived together. Then, arriving here, Lucille discovered and 
joined the convent. Her one fear was that she would never see 
Pietro again. But after a time, he returned to the town, and would 
visit Lucille at the convent. Lucille began to slip away from the 
convent to spend nights alone with Pietro. They discovered that 
their love for each other had not diminished, and expressed this 
love physically. Torn between what she was taught by the nuns 
about sin and the flesh, and her love for Pietro, Lucille was plagued 
by guilt and fear of damnation. For relief, she exposed her history 
through the sacrament of confession.
As the meeting progressed, Father Joseph expressed his rationale 
that Sister Lucille had obviously been raped by Pietro, but was 
unable to face the truth. The fact that he was spiritual advisor for 
the nuns contributed largely to his judgement of the situation. Not 
one of them would willfully defile their oath of chastity, let alone 
commit incest!
The Mother Superior put forward how understandable it was 
that so heinous an occurence would warrant a break of the sacred 
trust between priest and confessor. The Mayor thanked Father 
Joseph for having the courage to do so.,
Lucille opened her eyes. Before her loomed the shadowy interior 
of the church. Feeling it in her hands, she lifted the head till it was 
level with her own.
"They ordered your arrest, Pietro. It is all so amazing. I did not 
think anyone would want to hurt you.
She drew it close, tight against her bosom, and caressed the 
temple and brow.
"No one will. Just as I had the forest boy save you; so shall! 
protect you now. There is no need to be fearful, dear brother.
The pounding on the church gate grew louder. Outside, th* 
forest boy began to throw stones at the old nun and the three 
who were trying to break down the gate. Inside, Sister Lucille was 
sitting on the stone floor, and was once again singing the remem
bered song.

---------------------------------------------------

> *
.Vv v.v 
.V^y X'; :x*>>.
OLD MAN ON FIFTH AND IVY 
by Carolyn Toth
He knows the dog 
that tips the garbage 
onto the sidewalk, 
and his window is smeared 
from fingers he used 
to eat jam tarts and cheetos.
He calls out the seasons,
Hey, its autumn you know!, 
and nearly falls 
out his window 
from excitement.
The nurses eat the cookies 
you bake him for Christmas 
but hell still offer you 
the chocolate chip 
that is crumbled 
on the grass outside.
He listens to transistor church 
I three times a Sunday 
and drinks his first wine 
on Easter, when the preacher 
is Episcopal.
Youd like to think hes mad, 
but he spoils that comfort 
when he recalls 
that youre a writer 
and hands you a copy 
of Katherine Porters death.
It took her twenty years to write one book, 
so you best hurry.
He yells as if you are the deaf one.
Then notions
of his dormant eardrums
and stepless feet.
Yes,
youd better hurry.

---------------------------------------------------

6
Design
"Automated 
Design Office' 
Workshop
Computers
Diffusion 
of Computer 
Technology
Because computers are aids to problem solving, the 
capabilities of computer technology are beneficial to almost ail 
fields, creative, social and technical. Design is one of those 
fields in which problem solving plays a major role, and 
therefore computer usage in design is rapidly expanding. 
Although it is generally misunderstood that design is merely 
"making things look nice," the growing application of 
computer-aided design implies that this field offers solutions to 
problems which concern more important issues than just 
aesthetics
The following article is a commentary by CMU's Design Profes
sor Alessandro De Gregori on the 1980 Industrial Designers 
Society of America's (IDSA) annual conference, a large part of 
which dealt with the application and impact of computer technol
ogy on the design field.
Almost all of the meetings I attended implied 
that society is facing the impact of diffused 
applications of computerized and intelligent 
functions in products, and that some people are 
aware of the necessity of working out the 
communication gaps between humans and 
computers.
The single most impressive concept I derived 
from the conference is that "literacy" will soon 
include competence in some computer langua
ge...until somebody will solve the problem of 
making electronic products more or less literate 
in the current language their users use for 
communicating among themselves.
"Management 
of Design 
Personnel" 
Workshop
The computer industry is replacing the auto
mobile industry as number one revenue source 
in the U.S. Yet the man in the street has failed 
to assess the real impact of computer technol
ogy on his daily life. Even the experts find it 
difficult to follow the changes and more than 
that, the potential applications of computer 
technology. The demand for more applications 
will certainly open new product design oppor
tunities in the near future. As far as designers 
are concerned they generally tend to think that 
their skills cannot extensively benefit from 
computers. This traditional attitude seems now 
to be changing.
At the "Automated Design Office" workshop, 
several speakers provided both evidence and 
scenarios of a true design office revolution in 
progress. Computer aided design (CAD) and 
computer aided model making (CAM) equipment 
are in use. Xerox and General Electric are the 
major producers of such equipment. A report 
was made about computer generated three 
dimensional models and model patterns cut 
from drawings through a computer. The current 
cost estimates for creative capability systems 
range between $30,000 and $350,000. At the 
higher end you get a top state of the art CAD 
system with a high resolution (CRT) display. It is 
anticipated that this cost will be reduced almost 
50/o^by 1985.
It has also been reported that the training of a 
designer for achieving computer aided drawing 
efficiency is about three months. As optimistic 
as the figure may be, one cannot avoid making a 
comparison with the amount of time traditionally 
required for achieving manual drawing effi
ciency. The speakers conveyed the idea that the 
computerized design office will soon be diffused 
on a large scale.
Design related languages now in use are 
mostly derived from engineering design. The 
existing CAD equipment and available software 
allows improvement of efficiency related to 
execution phases of the design process such as 
drafting, tool definition, control documents, and 
storage of images and date. One true limitation 
to the practical diffusion of CAD in design still 
exists. There are not yet comprehensive lan
guages which could direct the computer to 
process esthetic parameters otherwise referred 
to as the esthetic algorithm along with structu
ral and user-related algorithms. This is a 
contribution the design discipline could bring to 
the field of information science and this goal 
has implications on directions of research and 
education.
What are these implications? There are sev
eral and they are more or less related to the 
question: if a comprehensive "design algorithm" 
could be processed by the computer, could 
anybody trained in computer aided design, say a 
design engineer, design the entire product and 
make the industrial designer obsolete? I'd like to 
leave this question open for further discussion. 
My argument is that as a consequence of these 
implications the mode of intervention and the 
market demand for industrial design profession
als will probably shift in emphasis from skill 
performance to research performance at one 
end and evaluative performance at the other end 
of the design process.
Some of the above issues were repeated and 
amplified during the "Management of Design 
Personel" workshop. Robert Veryzer, design

---------------------------------------------------

7
"Strategie 
Direction of 
Office Products' 
Workshop
consultant and formerly with General Motors, 
reported that GM has already installed CRT 
terminals in each of 34 design studios. He also 
anticipates that by 1985 no design graduate 
applicants will be considered by GM without 
credits on computer programming and CAD 
education. In the same workshop other relevant 
issues were presentedtrend toward "better" vs. "newer" design,
 search for design graduates who are able 
to read production drawings,
 trend toward more interdisciplinary and 
team work for designers, which falls into 
three major areas: design and engineers, 
design and marketing, design psychology 
and human factors.
The development of the computer aided design 
office could be seen as one of the current trends in 
the overall office work evolution. Douglas Bronson, 
Director of Stategy, IBM Office Products Division, 
held a workshop on ''Strategic Directions of Office 
Products". He reported that the history of the office 
shows a slow development of mechanization and 
automation if compared to that of manufacturing. 
The result is that the productivity ratio of office 
work vs. manufacturing has steadily declined since 
1900 to date despite the introduction of computers 
and the variety of office product options.
Two major constraints have prevented a better 
efficiency of office work; both relate to lack of focus 
on strategic design issues. First, office products are 
not yet integrated as part of an overall communica
tion processing network. Despite the fact that the 
computer and the telephone are rapidly growing 
into each other, the reality of the office landscape 
today is that most parts are still separated: there is 
the typewriter and the word processor, there is the 
copier and the dictating machine. Furthermore, 
some of these parts are still inefficient due to the 
diversified nature of office work. An example: 
statistics show and we all experience that only 25% 
of manually activated telephone calls are completed 
successfully.
The second constraint to office work efficiency 
relates to human factors criteria in design. It is 
recognized that the most challenging human 
factors problems to overcome, in order to gain a 
wider support of electronic communications in the 
office, are the development of a plain English, 
"natural" computer language and simpler modes of 
interaction with terminals through improved or new 
input/output components.
As a solution to these constraints, technological 
applications in the office scenario assume the office 
as a man-machine integrated system of communi
cations, with compatible "intelligent" system com 
ponents. These include: voice and character 
recognition terminals, spelling recognition word 
processing, computerized copier/printers with 
image and text integration, electronic mail systems, 
remote conferencing.
Major corporations in the electronic industry are 
currently involved in human factors studies as their 
solutions seem to have finally achieved the status 
of marketable commodities. The product stategy in 
the industry has also shifted in response to human 
factors' related requirements of different markets. A 
"think international" approach to design is being 
stressed as a means to develop product compliance 
and adaptability to diversified user requirements 
which are supported by local government 
regualtions.
M icroprocessors 
Technology
"Electronic
Technology
&Design"
Workshop
Conclusion
The common denominator of so much fervor at 
the IDSA annual conference about electronic 
communications, their implications on the office of 
microprocessor technology. After a few years of 
incubation this technology has finally reached the 
consciousness of the design community at large.
Microprocessors do not pollute or deplete natural 
resources and are not intrinsically dangerous to 
society; they are extremely energy efficient and 
economical, they make possible miniaturization, the 
production of computers for the consumer market, 
and their application irvthe development of various 
degrees of "intelligent" functions in products for 
any use has just begun.
One of the most direct advantages of micropro
cessor technology which is related to design 
concerns is its potential for adaptability to serve 
human needs, facilitating the operation of products 
and equipment, making them safe, more efficient, 
and comfortable to interact with. The potential 
solutions this technology could offer are not yet 
fully explored.
Gerry Birdwell, Ph.D. Corporate Industrial 
Designer and Senior Human Factors Engineer for 
Texas Instruments who held the workshop "Elec
tronic Technology and Design" presented directions 
his group is undertaking in order to solve critical 
design parameters. Besides the previously menti
oned notion that user requirements must be turned 
into simple language programs, products would be 
able to speak and recognize voices, and the 
complexity of actual input components should be 
partitioned. In this regard, for instance, multimode 
keyboards of 15, maximum 20 keys, should 
substitute the actual 45 keys of programmable 
calculators. The most impressive research demon
stration was about synthetic speech to be used in 
future products for instructions, messages, teaching 
and reinforcement of visual information.
The expanding electronic technology such as 
development of microprocessors, their applications 
and diffusion, have been the focus of the 1980 
IDSA annual conference.
In the next decade the applications of this 
technology could pervade the human habitat, the 
factory, the office, and the school and have critical 
impacts on our modes of working and life styles. 
The questions that may intrigue the designer are: 
How well will society adjust to the changes it 
creates? What could the related contribution of the 
design profession be?
In reference to the first question, something 
remarkable is happening. It seems that the young 
gnration is assimilating in real time implications 
and changes of this technology, even before school 
age. This changing technology has no critical 
impact on the young. He and she are growing up 
with it. Children today have the same familiarity 
and fun with microprocessors gadgetry that several 
previous generations used to have with airplane 
models and dolls, or, later in life, with automobiles. 
The booming acceptance of "intelligent" toys is the 
best available indicator that perhaps this time 
society will be more at ease with technological 
change.
As to the second question, the design profession 
has favorable opportunity to contribute to planning 
and development of applications of the fast 
changing electronic technology. The academic field 
should consider the shifts of emphasis in design 
education which such technology implies as well as 
participation in research which may help make it a 
true instrument for improving learning, working and 
living conditions.

---------------------------------------------------

8
Before .climbing the stairs to the main galleries of 
the Carnegie Institutes Museum of Art, stroll into 
the entrance gallery. In front of you stands a figure, 
although you can not be,certain that you have 
accurately interpeted this abstract rendering. Now 
you stand above a tag naming the piece. "Man rising 
from the infinity circle (banality) to thought realm 
(spiritual).
"Man rising... stands in the center of the gallery 
filled with the work of Edward Eberle, Head of the 
CMU Ceramics Department. The exhibit, which 
continues through November 23rd, reaches into the 
core of Eberles artistic development. The show 
provides an important record of the artists work to 
date; he has been involved with the medium for the 
past 15 years. His interest in ceramics was kindled 
by a mandatory clay class while doing undergraduate 
work in Art Education at Edinboro State College. 
After several years in the military, Eberle received 
an MFA in Ceramic Design from Alfred University 
in New York.
In the past, Eberle has participated in several 
invitational shows on a national level. The pieces he 
has selected for the exhibit at the Carnegie Institute 
are concerned with life. "Man rising.. conceptual
izes man rising into another kind of thought pattern. 
The pieces circular base symbolizes earth, the 
womb, and the duality of good and evil, which 
Eberle sees as a constant force. From the base 
extends Eberles abstraction of the human figure.
Eberle also exhibits two life-size vessles (one of 
man and one of women) that follow the physical 
form to the shoulders. The black and white vessles 
portray man as he is sensed rather than seen.
side by side, the vessles work and blend 
together.
In another piece, Eberle depicts a cat and a 
mouse. Their interaction exemplifies "the primeaval 
routine on two different levels. On one level, the 
and mouse are playful, while on another level 
they are fighting for survival.
Eberles audience often views his work as 
resembling African or Indian art. He sees these 
observations as a true representation of the 
sensitivity he attempts to emulate. He aims at 
bringing together many cultures in an effort to 
describe what life is about in religious and 
ceremonial ways.
Eberle considers his work to be extremely 
personal. He does not create for the purpose of 
selling. Through his ceramic abstractions, he embra
ces the spirituality of existence beyond physical 
being. The present condition of man provides the 
framework for Eberles creations. He chooses to 
comment on mans image of mankind. Although his 
work attempts to resolve conflicts in ethical and 
moral behavior, he does not consider himself a social] 
artist, "by any stretch of the imagination. He 
stresses striving for higher planes but warns of 
"out-thinking pieces.
Eberle does not pin-down his artistic inspiration to] 
one particular artist or experience. Rather, he finds 
inspiration in anything from taking a morning 
shower to meeting an individual through the typical 
events of the a daily schedule. To Eberle, 
"inspiration does not come easily, so I grab it when 
I can get it. His students affect his work greatly.
He views students, particularly here at CMU, as 
extremely intelligent, sensitive, and "in some cases, 
destined to be more sensitive and have more impact 
than I will ever have. His students offer him 
energy, which keeps him "fresh.
Eberle suggests that "you allow yourself to 
disassociate yourself from that immediate time and 
space, when viewing his work. He continues by 
explaining the importance of feeling "another kind 
of an awareness of where you are in relation to the 
work and when you get back to reality, you will be 
richer for that experience. Art is a mirror; it will 
reflect back to you as much as you let it. By your 
comments and observations, it will tell you who you| 
are in relation to who you were.
Eberle
by Renee Rosenfeld
Tucked away in the sub-basement of Doherty Hall is 
an oasis of artistic expression. Amongst this treasure of 
creativity is the studio of Edward Eberle, Head of the 
CMU Ceramics Department. Scattered between large 
gray trash cans, stunted stools, wooden work tables, 
towering shelves, and perpetual dust are the creations 
that inspire Eberles livelihood. Many of these creations 
are now on display in Carnegie Institutes Museum of

---------------------------------------------------

9
large tail fms may 
increase total drag 
by causing air to flow 
across them to join the 
stream leaving the fcil
Direction of forces and moments acting on a car and caused solely by
the airflow around it
STREAMLINING as applied to the private car is one of those pursuits which, like the search for a successor 
to the poppet valve for engines, or an infinitely variable 
gear for transmissions, is taken up with enthusiasm from 
time to time, only to be dropped again. It has never 
developed continually as in aeronautics, where it is of primary importance, and is a prey to the whims of fashion and the often-conflicting ideas of stylists.
SIDEFORCE
PITCHINGMOMENT
t
LIFT
DRAG
YAWINGMOMENTcb
ROLLING

---------------------------------------------------

10
SUEDE BLUE EYES 
By Paul Smith
Just as I started to piss, the phone 
rang. Christ, I said to the Marilyn 
Monroe poster above the toilet tank. 
I got to the phone in the middle of 
the sixth ring. Matthew asked what 
had taken so long.
Sorry, I was in the boys room. 
Its cool, just dont let it happen 
again.
Tee hee. Whats going on? 
Lots. Neil and I are going out to 
Mattituck and were taking you with 
us - oh, first of all, Marcus wants to 
know how many hits we want. I told 
him you werent sure whether you 
wanted to get them anymore, so Id 
ask you.
Oh boy. The idea of being pres
sured before breakfast annoyed me. 
How many can you afford, youd 
better just get that many.
Are you sure?
Yeah.
Alright, I guess thats about...five 
hundred hits. You know the price 
break is at a thousand.
I know. There was a short 
pause.
Listen, I know youve heard this 
before, but I think its kind of stupid 
to operate at such a small level. If its 
just...if you dont want to deal, you 
know I can do all the dealing, Ill just 
give you your share of the profit. 
That way well both come out ahead, 
and you wont have to worry.
No, its not just that. Its like this. 
Im not ia school, I have all this 
money, Im sitting here on Sutton 
Place... I keep thinking about why 
Im still being a criminal. I feel like I 
should be doing real life, grown up 
things with my money.
Yeah? Like playing the bass? 
No, come on, I mean invest
ments, so I can play the fucking bass 
and not worry. Look, I have this 
wonderful inheritence, but I have to 
manage the bucks instead of just let
ting them sit. And if Im going to 
have people watching my money, I 
cant be dropping a thousand bucks 
at a time into drug deals.
OK. New approach. It would be 
such a favor to me if you would do 
this, just this last time. You know I 
have to live off these little transac
tions, the hospital doesnt pay me 
shit. Matt was a pre-med at N.Y.U. 
at the time, and had a part-time job 
as an autopsy technician. Kier, you 
would make a big difference in the 
quality of my diet if you would go in 
on this with me.
Matthew. I resigned myself. If I 
put up bucks for this, you have to 
promise you are going to hold onto 
your profits and re-in vest them, so 
you dont have to come to me any
more. Being able to finance yourself, 
thats part of being a businessman. 
Im not going to pretend Im Chemi
cal Bank for you forever.
Youre so great with doubleentendre. Dont think of yourself as 
my bank, youre my benefactor. 
Youre contributing to the realiza
tion of what will one day be a great career.
Im financing drug deals for a 
faggot pre-med who cuts up dead 
bodies for a living.
Im not a faggot, Im bi-sexual. 
Androgynous, thats what I am, 
androgynous. Listen, Kier, I cant 
thank you enough. You wont regret 
it, I promise.
Yeah, well, if it werent for you, I 
couldnt get drunk and tell people I 
have a friend whos a faggot pre-med 
who cuts up dead bodies for a 
living.
Androgynous. Oh, anyway - so 
you and Harper Jane are coming out 
to Mattituck with us to see Georgie. 
Neil says hes getting fat and loud 
without us to throw him around. 
I cant. Im having lunch with 
my Uncle Ron, he wants to talk to 
me about tax shelters, or something. 
That guy is really anxious to give me 
a proper businessmans ulcer. He 
says I should worry more about my 
money. Its free lunch, anyway. 
Youll always be a starving rock' 
and roller at heart.
Yeah. You should call Harper, 
she still might want to go.
Maybe she will, that would be 
nice. Ill get to talk to her without 
having you around.
I knew you two would get along. 
Thats why I started seeing her, I 
thought you needed exposure to 
some normal people.
Im glad you care.
I gave him her phone number and 
we hung up.
As I stalked breakfast I thought 
about Harper Jane. Id been spend
ing a lot of time doing that lately, the 
thought that I would be living with 
her in three weeks made me nervous.
I was very infatuated with her, and it 
was the first time in my undistin
guished sexual career Id been so 
close to getting something right.
Matthew showed up as I was dress
ing for lunch. He was impeccably 
funky in old scuffed up pointy black 
boots, jeans, a turquoise T-shirt, and 
a black leather blazer. I was wearing 
cream yellow trousers, a white silk 
shirt, and a vest and tie, for my 
Uncles sake. We left the apartment 
and walked to Fifty-ninth street. It 
was a little cloudy, and not hot. Mat
thew talked about micro-biology. 
Suddenly I remembered.
Damn. I had something back at 
my apartment I was going to show 
you. I forgot. I got this pair of shoes, I 
swear, that somebody gave me. The 
old guy across the hall. His brother 
died, and he had all these shoes. Any
way, he gave me these alligator 
shoes, from about 1942. Theyre 
pointy, they have four eyelets and 
little teeny laces with metal tips, 
youll love them.
Thats great! No one ever gives 
me shoes, Im jealous.
The first conversatioin I ever had 
with Matthew was about shoes. He 
tried to pick me up in Maxs, I told 
him I wasnt gay but I really liked his boots. He thought that was hilarious, and we spent the rest of the
Iill'I*%t
evening singling out people in the 
crowd and making up stories about 
them.
That was only about two weeks 
after my father died. In the two years 
since, he had become my only real 
confidante. He was different from 
my other friends in that he never 
inquired about or even acknowleged 
my many sudden gloomy moods, 
my irrational changes in disposition. 
It was comfortable for me not to jus
tify my emotions. He was trendier 
that I, and laughed at trendiness 
more than I.
But wed been falling apart since 
wed starting dealing together.
We stopped at the Seamans Bank 
office. I withdrew nine hundred dol
lars and gave Matt eight hundred. 
He thanked me again and walked to 
the subway to go to the village to 
meet Neil and Harper. I took a cab 
downtown to meet my Uncle.
I first saw Harper Jane Minahan 
in the Lone-Star cafe in February. 
Carl Perkins (the greatest old rocker) 
was playing. She was on the small 
dance floor in front of the stage, 
squished together with the crowd, so 
was I. Everyone was trying to dance. 
She was tall and narrow, her hair 
was short curly blond. She had eyes 
that were both tired and happy. 
They were four-in-the-moming 
eyes. I imagined her at four in the 
morning, secured that image in my 
mind, and filed it away under recall 
during masturbation. By the end of 
the show she had left. Not that it 
would have mattered, because I 
never try to start anything in a bar. I 
consider pick-up a spectator sport.
A week later I met her. I was sitting 
on a patch of carpet in the basement 
of a record shop on Grove street 
where my band practices, trying to 
learn the harmonica under the 
instruction of Nicholas, the 
drummer. (The band was called The 
Willies, and we did mostly old Monkees songs. It was a good concept, 
but we broke up before we ever got 
out of the basement. Show biz.) Jack 
Walsh and Garth, the guitarists, 
were standing by the stairway trying 
to convince Joey Najaar, the organ 
player, that we should do a powerchord version of the song Kids 
from the show Bye Bye Birdie. 
Someones girlfriend was playing a 
tape of Pop Muzik again and 
again, and three mods I didnt know 
whod shown up in the middle of 
rehearsal were passing lines of coke 
between themselves, not offering 
them to anyone else.
%A
Down the stairway and into the! 
small cluttered room came Nicholas ' 
sister, known as Marie-from-. 
Canarsie, with two girls I dont 
remember and the girl from the-; 
Lone-Star with the eyes. They weref 
all introduced, the only name 
caught was Harpers. Marie led themjj 
over to the carpet scrap and they sail 
down with Nicholas and me. And o| 
course, the natural thing to do was| 
start a conversation with one 
them, so...
Harper, thats a great name.
Yeah, its my mothers maidenii 
name. Who are you?
Kier.
Is that French?
No. WelL.yeah, the name is, but] 
Irn not. My mother was on a French| 
kick when I was bom. She named i 
Kier Jean-Paul Giordano. Im onlyi 
about one-fifth Italian, for thaj 
matter.
Kier plays the bass, said Marie| 
from-Canarsie.
Oh. said Harper. I saw you in 
the Lone-Star Thursday. You looke 
like you were having a good time.
I was just going to say the sar 
thing...
We talked about Carl Perkir 
then the band worked on Im 
Believer for a while. Afterwords we 
talked some more. About Rober 
Gordon and Eddie Cochran. I aske 
if she wanted to go down to China] 
town to eat. She said yes.
She was easy to talk to, we be; 
to exchange life stories, piece U 
piece. She was intrigued that I wa 
an orphan. I pointed out that it wa 
strange to consider someone who 
last parent died when he was twenty^ 
two an orphan, but she didnt thir 
so. She had been a literature majorat] 
C.C.N.Y., and was now working 
Balduccis chic foodstore in thij 
Village.
After dinner, we bought sor 
wine and took a cab back to fli]| 
apartment. We drank, talked, & 
tened to Diana Ross and Otis Re 
ding records, and made love.

---------------------------------------------------

11
It used to happen that I would fall 
hopelessly in love with women, 
finally to go to bed with them, and be 
in such awe of them that I couldnt 
screw. After a few days they would 
politely excuse themselves from my 
life, and I would be depressed for a 
month. That didnt happen this 
time. We stayed together.
The lease on her apartment on 
Ninth Street was up at the end of 
August, and she was supposed to 
move in with me. But when she 
called and said she was changing her 
mind, I only let it surprise me for a 
moment.
It was four days after the day I 
didnt go to Mattituck with her, 
Matt, and Neil. She talked about it 
being too soon, about whether wed 
get along, things wed decided long 
ago wouldnt be problems. She also 
said she didnt think we should see 
each other as much anymore.
What does not as much any
more mean? Like once a week not as 
much, or like goodbye not as 
much?
I just mean not as much, I think 
its too heavy. There are too many 
mind games.
Of all the groovy meaningless sev
enties expressions, Mind Games is 
the one I loathe most, even more 
than Living Space or Go For It. 
Is there someone else?
No.
She was a person who compul
sively told the truth to everyone, it 
was strange to hear her lie. 
Really?
Well, yes, sort of, but its not sig
nificant to the problem.
Yes, sort of. Anyone I know? 
Kier, its not significant, thats 
totally separate from the problem of 
living together.
Anyone I know? She was silent 
for a while. She always told the truth. 
Matthew.
Matthew, like from N.Y.U., that 
Matthew?
Yes. But its not like were start
ing anything up, its incidental.
Well I dont know if you can call 
it incidental; five days ago every
thing was thought out and setded 
and peachy, we were even in love, if 
youll pardon the expression. Then 
you go out on Long Island with 
some fag...Harper, hes gay, for 
Christs sake!
Hes androgynous. And hes not 
some fag, I thought he was your 
closest friend, you said.
Yeah, thats pretty incidental 
too...
Christ. This doesnt have to be 
like this. Well talk later when we 
can both be cool about it.
We didnt talk later. I spent five 
days, alternately pissed at the world, 
Harper, Matthew, myself, and var
ious combinations of the four, 
finally setding on a general disdain 
for existence best dealt with by inges
tion of lots of Demerol and Tolwin. 
(This to the great annoyance of my 
band, since it badly impaired my 
ability to play the bass or talk to 
people.)
On the sixth day I was awoken by 
the telephone at two PM. It was 
Matthew.
Kier, I have to talk to you. 
Uh, no, I dont think you do, 
actually.
Really, Kier...
Matt, you dont have to talk to 
me, really. If you... I dont need you 
to offer me a chance to prove Im not 
childish by offering me a chance to 
be childish at you. Id rather just not 
deal with it at all.
Listen, I really didnt want to dis
cuss Harper and everything with 
you, and I knew you wouldnt want 
to. Youre perceptive enough to real
ize the problems between the two of 
you, andYeah, thats even more convinc
ing from you than it was from her. 
I didnt want to discuss it. 
You called.
Well I have to talk to you about 
the money.
The money, what about the fuck
ing money. I broke off our partner
ship, you stole my girlfriend. Thats 
the world of high finance.
Well I have to talk to you about 
the money. He paused for a 
moment. I got ripped off badly. Its 
really going to be a problem. 
Thats God, see, thats what he 
does to people who steal other peo
ples girlfriends. Something in the 
Bible about that...
Kier, please! I didnt steal your 
girlfriend! What is this, fucking 
nineteen sixty one?
Oh, sorry. You intruded on my 
private space. That modem enough 
for you?
He paused long enough to start a 
new paragraph.
I was coming out of the subway 
Friday. There was this kid, this fuck
ing thirteen year old with a gun. He 
took my wallet and all the hits. I was 
going up to Columbia to deliver the 
first two hundred, but I had all the 
bags with me, I was afraid theyd get 
ripped off if I left them in my 
apartment.
He stopped. When I didnt 
respond, he spoke. I had thirty six 
bucks in my wallet. It was all I had 
left after I picked up the hits.
After it was apparent he wasnt 
about to continue, I spoke. You 
know I got the most ridiculous feel
ing right when you said you got 
ripped off, I got the ridiculous feel
ing that you were actually going to 
ask me for more money. But then I 
knew immediately that no one in 
your position could ever have the 
balls to do somediing like that.-
*
Neil doesnt have the money to 
cover my rent, school wont give me 
two loans at a ume. Harper hardly 
has any money.
Or you could just ask me to lie 
down on the sidewalk so you can 
ipiss direclty on me, while youre in 
the mood.
After a short pause, he continued 
in a controlled tone. If you give me 
sixteen hundred I can have it all back 
to you, plus the eight hundred from 
the acid, in maybe two or three 
months.
Its great, really, because now Ill 
never feel guilty for thinking youre a 
total scum.
There was a long silence.
We could talk about it, if you 
want...the three of us.
I looked at my bookshelves for a 
moment. Well now that youve said 
that, and feel all reasonable and ever
ything, you wont mind wrapping 
up this phone call. You want to 
come by around noon, I ought to be 
back from the bank by then. Since 1 
cant think of a witty line thats bit
ing enough to save you the embarrasment of thanking me. Im just going 
to hang up.
I hung up, and laid back down in 
bed. After a half hour, I got up, put 
on my robe, and played solitaire 
darts until dinner.

---------------------------------------------------

Ralph Nader debates 
nuclear energy issues 
with Karen Adelson,
representative of Westinghouse Nuclear 
Energy Systems, on 
Wednesday, November 
12 at 8 PM in Skibo 
Ballroom.
NOV.17
Presented next Monday by Activities Board
Presented tomorrow by Activities Board
Open to CMU campus only. CMU ID required
Walter Williams, crea
tor of the Mr. Bill show 
and voice of Mr. Bill, 
will speak Monday, 
November 17 at 8 PM 
in Skibo Ballroom. Oh 
No!
