The Newspaper of Carnegie-Mellon University, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213, Volume 80, Number 6, October 22, 1985.
photo by Liz Johnson
CMU distributes property policy
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
The following is the first of two articles 
on the Intellectual Property Policy.
In an effort to clarify ownership and 
financial rights over projects developed in 
a university setting, CMU has implemented 
[ a new Intellectual Property Policy.
The policy will replace the 1975 Patent 
Policy, which according to Assistant Provost 
Anne Sigerstad didnt have quite as tight a 
procedure for handling copyrighting 
dilemmas.
Included in the new policy, then, are ex
panded definitions of substantial use of 
univSoity facilities and the possible sponsori S^'P agreements governing that use. The 
policy also clarifies the options of both the
creator and the university in disseminating 
knowledge.
Much of the need for revision stems from 
a 1980 federal law that says computer soft
ware should be protected by copyright. Since 
then, forerunners of software development 
such as CMU, the California Institute of 
Technology and the University of Illinois at 
Urbana-Champaign have attempted to 
bring copyrighting procedures under univer
sity jurisdiction.
Materials traditionally protected by 
copyright, such as books, textbooks and 
works of art are the sole property of the 
creator, and that, according to Sigerstad .will 
not change. Computer software, however, 
will be funneled through a stricter set of 
criteria.
Sigerstad noted that the incidence of stu
dent disclosure is extremely small  three in 
the last academic year.
All returning students were mailed copies 
of the old and new policies, along with a rep
ly form for the student to indicate his c her 
choice. Studnets who do not respond to the 
mailing will continue to be bound by the 
1975 Patent Policy. All students new at CMU 
this year already subscribe to the new policy.
Because of problems with mailing lists, 
the Oct. 15 deadline specified on the reply 
form should be ignored, Sigerstad said. I 
would rather people take their time and 
make intelligent decisions.
For more on the Intellectual Property 
Policy, please see this weeks Editorial.
In This Issue:
News
Honor Code............................page 3
Features
The Complete Woman.........page 7
Arts Et Entertainment
Twilight Zone.......................page 11
The Romnantics...................page 15
Sports
Ultimate frisbee....................page 18
Editorial..............................page 22
Acme....................................page 27
Students rally against apartheid
By KAREN GRAY
Tartan News Editor
and CAROLYN KELLY
Tartan Assistant News Editor
Opposition to South Africas policy of 
Apartheid drew some 200 students and 
others to rally in front of the College of Fine 
Arts Friday afternoon.
We do not want to be associated with a 
university that does not subscribe to the 
principles that the United States is based on, 
such as one man, one vote, stated Students 
Against Apartheid (SAA) member Debra 
Martin in her address to the crowd. We are 
asking for a legitimization of the voice of 
CMUs students.
The newly formed SAA began circulating
rNAAA^r speaKer inanes Kenaaii
a petition on Tuesday urging CMU President 
Richard M. Cyert to support divestment of 
CMU holdings in South Africa. Presently, 
CMUs investments in U.S. corporations in 
that country comprise one-third of CMUs 
common stock.
A number of campus organizations, in
cluding the CMU Peace Alliance, Students 
for Choice, Students for Life and Spirit join
ed SAA in organizing the rally, which 
featured local speakers and the music of 
several local bands.
Apartheid must be demolished, said 
Pittsburgh NAACP chapter President 
Charles Kendall. If we dont monitor whats 
going on is South Africa, were going to have 
a revolution.
Kendall denounced claims that disinvest
ment would hurt black workers as hogwash. 
Seventy percent of those workers want divest
ment.
Kendall charged U.S. companies with 
hurting the U.S. economy by moving their 
operations to South Africa for the purpose 
of hiring slave labor.
American workers cannot compete with 
this, he contended. Fifteen percent of 
(U.S.) steel comes from South Africa. For 
every billion we invest (In South Africa), we 
lose 26,000 jobs over here, said Kendall. Its 
time that we think past the State Depart
ment. Theyve made a lot of mistakes. 
CMU presently subscribes to the Sullivan 
principles, which are followed by half of the 
300 companies in South Africa. According 
to this policy, U.S. companies should no 
divest, but should exert a more positive in
fluence over the apartheid system by improvStudents gather on the College of Fine Arts lawn to protest apartheid.
ing working conditions for blacks.
In response to South Africas state of 
emergency, the Reagan administration has 
recently imposed a ban on the export of 
computers and nuclear technology and loans 
from American banks. The South African 
government has legalized black labor
unions, mixed marriages and sexual rela
tions, and has created houses of Parliament 
for coloreds and Asians.
In spite of these changes, however, the 
South African government still adheres to a 
policy of separate development, by which 
continued on page 2
SU PA receives $2 million
from Heinz
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Staffwriter
The Howard Heinz Endowment has 
| * donated $2 million to CMUs School of Ur
ban and Public Affairs (SUPA).
This gift, coupled with a personal gift of 
$250,000 from H.J. Heinz II, is the largest 
gift CMU has received since Richard King 
Mellon donated $10 million in 1967.
This money, which will be received over 
the next five years, is the first major step in 
CMUs capital campaign. The goal of this 
campaign is to raise $100 million for 
campus-wide improvement, renovation and 
expansion.
endowment
The Heinz gift is an initial achievement 
in our moving toward raising money for 
greater endowment, said Brian J.L. Berry, 
dean of SUPA.
The money was donated specifically to 
SUPA to promote active programs in Urban 
and Public Affairs. The Heinz endowment 
would like to see more active research in the 
areas concerned with the problems during 
development caused by government, as well 
as expansion in urban and regional 
development.
The Heinz Endowment sees these as ma
jor problems society faces that ppssibly may 
continued on page 5
A cake-laden celebration of Andrew Carnegies 150th birthday kicked off Homecom
ing weekend. For more information on this weekends events, please see the Homecom
ing supplement.

---------------------------------------------------

1 Page 2The TartenOctober 22, 1985
Speakers, music highlight
anti-apartheid rally
continued from page 1
blacks have been relocated to ten 
homelands, or Bantustans. As non-citizens, 
blacks do not have the right to vote, assem
ble or distribute printed materials.
CMU History professor Andrew Barnes 
called the idea of separate development 
economically unfeasible.
In his address to the crowd, Barnes 
reviewed the economic development of 
South Africa, noting that "in South African 
history, the government has always been 
committed to international capitalism. The 
idea of homelands, according to Barnes, was 
a dream of White South Africans, or 
Afrikaners, to create a separate society for 
themselves. (The Afrikaners) have been 
allowed to erect a state with the acquiescence 
of the government as long as it didnt disrupt 
the economy.
(The homeland policy) worked better as 
a diplomatic tool than in reality. The 
Afrikaners spent a great deal of money try
ing to make it work, said Barnes. When 
the cause of the policy affects the state 
significantly, we need a change.
Dr. James Kavanaugh, who joined the 
CMU English department this semester, also 
spoke at the rally, saying that the U.S. must 
oppose the apartheid not only morally but 
politically.
Kavanagh also countered claims that 
divestment will hurt the black majority, 
claiming that those taking this standpoint 
are the ones who are benefitting from the 
status quo. He added that even though U.S. 
companies have millions of dollars invested 
there, they only employ a small fraction of
blacks.
Calling the present South Africa regime 
illegitimate, Kavanagh advocated the 
abolition of rule by a white minority in favor 
of one ruled by a popular majority.
He closed by saying that while divestment 
will not solve the problems in South Africa, 
it will deprive the apartheid regime of some 
of its military and economic needs and 
ultimately hasten its defeat.
Music from local bands The Waive, The 
Shunts, ATS and Cousin It could be heard 
several hundred feet down the campus, 
where other CMU students kicked off 
Homecoming Weekend with a cake and soda 
celebration of Andrew Carnegies 150th bir
thday. A student from SAA, stationed near 
the celebration, solicited donations from 
visiting alumni to support disinvestment.
There were no confrontations, however, 
between rally goers and Homecoming par
ticipants, although some fraternity members 
had trouble keeping the sidewalk between 
Baker Hall and Hunt Library clear for 
buggy practice.
For this campus, the rally was a success, 
commented Martin later. (The concern) 
isnt going to stop.
SAA member Lisa Bernstein, who also 
helped organize the rally, reported that the 
group had gotten five hundred signatures for 
its petition, and lauded campus communi
ty support: This campus knows and cares. 
Theres no reason to be afraid to do 
something. . we as students take our rights 
for granted and sometimes we have to stand 
up and fight for them.
Please support the AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY'
Minutes of the Student Senate October 15, 1985
The meeting was called to order at 7:00
PRESENT: Bett, Chun, DeLeon, Flynn, Hynes, 
Jagerski, Kissner, Lee, Lee, Murphy, Mukherjee, 
Rocher, Salomon, Taylor, Whysel, Dean Walter, 
Lonsky, Noesen, Kombrek, Applebaum, Ran
sack, Trampel, Greenberg
ABSENT: Chu, Novak
Five ran for the two vacant seats in H&SS: 
Uday Patnaik, Charles Reinhard, Allen 
Greenberg, Peter Lonsky, and Brian Bennett. 
Patnaik and Lonsky won fall seats and the others 
were encouraged to run in the upcoming 
elections.
PRESIDENT:
Karen spoke with President Cyert last Wednes
day and he assured her that the student office 
space in Skibo would not be surrendered to the 
relocation of the parking department. Both 
Karen and Cherie Jagerski will be attending the 
upcoming Trustees meeting.
At 2:30 on Friday there will be an anti
apartheid rally on the CFA lawn. Bands and 
speakers will be there to encourage the Univer
sitys total divestment in South African interests. 
President Cyert, while condoning this rally, is 
in favor of divestment for only those corpora
tions not following the Solomon Principle. It was 
pointed out that only 2 percent of the South 
African companies actually did adhere to the 
principle.
CHAIRMAN:
There will be an Exec Committee meeting 
Thursday at 9:00.
Howard Lansing has been elected Freshman 
Class President.
ACADEMIC AFFAIRS:
The proposed honor code will be discussed 
next week, so please poll your constituents. Peter 
Cohen announced that most of his constituents 
feel that the code is unnecessary, as it is all clearly 
stated in the Student Handbook. Also, Seana 
Chun pointed out that many of the schools with 
honor codes give students benefits like proctorless 
exams or the opportunity to take an exam at the 
Students own convenience, such as at Rice 
University.
The Educational Affairs Committee will meet
next Wednesday but Cindy is not on the agen
da to discuss registration priority. The agenda 
does include the computation system, the core 
curriculum, and a plus/minus grading system.
Seana asked why CMU is not affiliated with 
Phi Beta Kappa and pointed out that H&SS is 
lacking in the quality of TAs and diversity in 
course selection, such as the case that the 
psychology department considers almost soley 
cognitve psychology, to the exclusion of 
developmental or behavioral studies. Dean 
Walter then commented that he thought the 
H&SS was improving and that the Universitys 
professional orientation to curriculum was the 
reason for its noninvolvement in Phi Beta 
Kappa. fT}foi337cI ..)'/ .
CAMPUS AFFAIRS:
The complaints brought up last week are be
ing dealt with.
There will be a committee meeting Wednes
day at 7:30.
Cindy was approached by a student question
ing the classroom reservation process, and it was 
explained that because of class relocations it is 
difficult to reserve classroom space during the 
day.
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND HUMAN 
RESOURCES:Volunteers are currently working on a float 
for Pittsburghs parade on November 23 in 
celebration of its status as the #1 City in the 
Nation.
OLD BUSINESS:
Maria Cousineau was accepted by acclama
tion as a senator of MCS. Another seat in that 
college is open.
Peter Cohen asked about the status of the in
termediate appeals board. Since there have been 
no disciplinary problems to date, there has been 
no need to organize one. ^
Chrissie Hynes asked about the class clubs 
because the juniors are very interested in conti
nuing theirs.
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
Academic Affairs, Monday at 7:00. 
Funding and Recognition, Thursday, 7:00, 
Room 13.
Campus Affaire, Wednesday, 7:30, Senate 
office.
Exec committee for Entropy, Thursday at 
7:00.
_ The meeting was adjourned at 7:57.
Counseling and Student 
Development Center*
Presents Workshops
Food for Thought
A thoughtful look at the meaning of food on self-esteem and health, 4 Mondays from 4:30-5:30 p.m., begins October 28, 1985
Study Smarter
Learn how to study more effectively with a variety of techniques.4 Thursdays from 4:00-5:00 p.m., begins October 31, 1985.
Surviving Shyness
Learn how to enhance your ability to relate to others.4 Mondays from 4:30-6:00, begins October 28, 1985.
Managing Stress
Learn how to cope with academic and personal pressures.4 Thursdays from 4:00-5:00 p.m., begins October 31, 1985.
Families in Transition
A workshop for students whose parents are separated or divorced.
4 Tuesdays from 3:30-5:00 p.m., begins October 29, 1985,
For information and registration: Phone Ext. 2922, or sign up
at MG, E Tower, Room 103.
?Division of Student Affairs
CMU Computer Store
CMU Computer Store: UCC - A level
Phone: x2636 MS: PS00@TE 
For a current price list: Type HELP COMPUTER-STORE-PRICES on any 
TOPS System.
What's New:
IBM PC XT 
and your choice:
10 mb hard disk 
20 mb hard disk
$1670.00
630.00
730.00
Apple Macintosh 128k
512k
Imagewriter 
External Disk Drive
$1160.00
1650.00%
430.00
350.00
Until October 15th, purchase all three Apple componente and receive a 5% 
discount on everything you buy at that time.

---------------------------------------------------

October 22, 1985The TartanPage 3
Complaints of cheating 
spawn new Honor Code
By KAREN WOODILLA
Tartan Staffwriter
Student Senate will vote on a Universitywide Honor Code on October 29.
If approved, the version will proceed to 
the Faculty Senates Education Affairs Com
mittee, then to the entire Faculty Senate, 
and finally to CMU President Richard M. 
Cyert. The Honor Code would enter the 
1986-87 Student Handbook.
Student Senates Academic Affairs Com
mittee wrote the Honor Code. We serve as 
a liaison between students and faculty. 
Students complained to us about cheating, 
and faculty also had concern, said Cindy 
Taylor, committee chair.
It is important not to confuse this Honor 
Code with CMUs Disciplinary Code, said 
Eric Rocher, committee member. The 
Disciplinary Code deals with what happens 
when a student is, for example caught co
pying work or cheating on an exam. The 
Honor Code emphasizes cooperation bet
ween faculty and students. We studied 
several Honor Codes from other Universities. 
This is a relatively mild honor code. We
hope the Faculty Senate will make it more 
enforceable from their end. This is a small 
step, and a positive one.
The intent of this first step is to change 
attitudes and develop policies. It is design
ed to be very broad, said committee 
member Steve Weller. This University is 
based on choices. We want students to think 
about learning. If all youre doing is simply 
getting the assignments done somehow, you 
are not understanding that the intent of a 
university is a lot more than getting an A. 
You need to be able to understand the con
cepts and make the decisions for later on! 
We want the professors to think about 
how they are presenting their material. 
What is reasonable? Should students work 
on problems in groups, or have someone 
work with them on a rough draft? Most pro
fessors dont tell their students. And I have 
never been in a class where someone asked, 
Weller said. Students here have come to ac
cept tests in crammed lecture halls. There 
is a lack of classroom space. There is also 
a procedural attitude. The Honor Code 
can help.
Honor Code
In order to create a trusting atmosphere among students and faculty, leading to 
a better learning environment, this honor code is secured by the students.
A. The students shall:
1. not give or receive aid in work used for grading, such as examinations, reports, 
and home work unless permitted to do so by the instructor.
2. advocate the following of the honor code by neither aiding nor encouraging 
those who wish to breach the code and by discouraging all violators.
3. take responsibility for the state of the learning environment and for its 
improvement.
B. The faculty shall:
1. demonstrate its confidence in the students by refraining from taking unusual 
precautions to prevent the transgressions of the honor code.
2. avoid, whenever possible, academic practices which create temptations to 
violate the honor code.
C. The students and the faculty shall work together to create optimal conditions
for honorable academic work.
We hope students will take more respon
sibility for the state of their learning environ
ment, said committee member Brett 
Whysel.
Students would not be guilty if they did 
not turn in a cheater. This Honor Code 
would simply help students encourage 
cheaters to study. . .This Honor Code could 
lead to proctorless exams, but its not some
thing were advocating now, Taylor said. 
Future plans may also include an Honor 
Board, made up of students. The Honor
Board would hear infringements of the 
Honor Code, instead of immediately calling 
the University Disciplinary Committee.
There are, however, Student Senate 
members who believe that these goals can 
be accomplished without an Honor Code.
Students are urged to discuss the Honor 
Code with friends, and bring their views to 
the next two Student Senate meetings: 
tonight and next Tuesday at 7:00 pm in the 
Skibo Wherrett Room.
Amateur Radio operators help in Mexican crisis
By ALBRECHT T. POWELL
Tartan Staffwriter
CMU amateur radio operators have been 
helping get messages into and out of Mex
ico City and its surrounding areas in the 
wake of devasting earthquakes several weeks 
ago.
Knocking out powerlines as well as 
telephone lines, the earthquakes brought 
communication to a virtual standstill in the 
Mexico City area until amateur radio
operators (hams) organized and im
plemented their disaster communication 
networks.
This complicated network system that 
helped organize disaster relief to the stricken 
area stemmed from civilians in Mexico Ci
ty. They contacted other hams in the sur
rounding area and even through the U.S.
Cliff Davidson of the Civil Engineering 
department and Peter Levin of the Electrical 
and Computer Engineering department
served as the two contacts at CMU for 
communications.
The contacts relayed messages from Mex
ican students here at CMU as well as 
members of the Pittsburgh community down 
to Mexico to find out the status of family 
members and loved ones. Though the 
messages were brief, an answer from a house 
or an acknowledgement of survival was 
enough to ease the minds of many students 
and families.
Disaster communications is one of the 
primary functions of Amateur Radio and 
has helped in countless numbers of disasters. 
Since many times phone lines are knocked 
out, hams get together to organize relief 
measures, aid in rescue operations, and help 
in general communications such as with the 
Mexican incident. CMU helped many 
students and other community members 
reach family in Mexico and set many minds 
at ease.
Precision Haircuts custom designed 
for the look you want 
SATISFACTION GUARANTEEDi^l^Jfc 
Great Styles Start at... ph' APPOINTMENT 1
NECESSARY IRR%fl I
omnmMS.
WASH, CUT AND 
BLOW DRY$13.00
(ANY LENGTH)
Thurs., Fri. 10-9 
Sat. 9-6
PRECISION HAIRCUTTERS
COLOR
237 Atwood Street 
Across the street from 
Oakland Post Office 
Mon., Tues., Wed. 10-7
UNISEX HAIR SALON
PERMS FOR 
ALL STYLES$25.00
687-3500 
No Appointments
Fodfr odThrug thAlhFdfkd Foade TmdAa en mhias
The second largest city in Michigan, Grand Rapids offers a small town atmosphere with big city convenience, excellent school systems and colleges, favorable housing costs, and a clean and healthy environment From anywhere in town you are within 45 minutes of Lake Michigan's sandy white beaches, within 20 minutes of a variety of inland lakes-rivers-streams, and within 10 minutes of your choice of golf courses, shopping malls, bike trails, or X/C ski areas
If you fit the above description, would welcome the security of working for a billion dollar corporation, the excitement of association with a leader in the avionics industry, the opportunity for professional advancement, and the warmth of a friendly community both LSI and Grand Rapids, Michigan invite you to check us out.
Contact your placement office or send a resume with copy of transcripf to:
Judy Percy
Professional Technical Employment Representative 
LEAR SIEGLER, INC. INSTRUMENT DIVISION 
4141 Eastern Avenue, S.E.
Grand Rapids, Ml 49508
An Equal Opportunity Afltrmative Action Employer
DECEMBER GRADS 
LOOK TO LEAR SIEGLER
mado uhaFmaokd Foade TmdAa en -no,s
LSI is a respected industry leader in research, design, development, and manufacture of avionics guidance and navigation systems
We are a people-oriented dynamic and growing company offering a stimulating working environment, excellent salary and comprehensive benefit package.
We are seeking several November/December Graduates in EE CS, or Systems Engineering who have earned a GPA of 3.00/4.00 or above, and are interested ih an immediate career opportunity with advancement potential. We do reguire American citizenship.

---------------------------------------------------

Some people are hard to satisfy. They invent 
something revolutionary, like wireless telegra-E
hy, and it doesnt even slow them down. They 
eep making it better. Stretching it farther. 
Going on to short-wave communications with 
ships at sea.
United Technologies would like a few of those.
Were the worlds largest maker of aircraft en
gines, helicopters, air conditioners, elevators, 
and escalators, but thats not half the story. 
Microelectronics. Fiber optics. Spacesuits. If its 
modem technology, were there at the center.
Making new things and making them better.
There are 25,000 engineers already with us, 
but we always need new talent. New men and 
women who wouldnt be satisfied if theyd in
vented the wheel. Theyd go on and invent the 
axle. We need some more Marconis.
And we know youre there, and reading this.
Shouldnt you stop by the campus place
ment office and ask some questions? Or write for 
more information and a reprint of this ad to 
United Technologies, P.O. Box 1379, Hartford, 
CT 06143.
UNITED TECHNOLOGIES
United Technologies means 
Pratt & Whitney, Hamilton 
Standard, Otis, Carrier, 
Automotive Group, United 
Technologies Microelectronics 
Center, Norden, Chemical  
Systems, Essex, Sikorsky,
Mostek and United Technol
ogies Research Center.
An equal opportunity 
employer.

---------------------------------------------------

October 22, 1985The TartanPage 5
Crime and Incident Report
Compiled by DEBBIE YUE
Tartan Staffwriter 
Tuesday, October 1
(2:45 am)  A male CMU student was physically assaulted in the TV room of Mudge House 
B-wing. Ten Oriental students were in the TV room playing ping-pong and making a great 
deal of noise. The victim, a resident of Mudge House, told them to be quieter and was subse
quently attacked by the group of students. More than a week later, after running into the 
Oriental students again and exchanging harsh words, the victim reported the previous inci
dent to the CMU security but was unable to provide the names of the ten students; therefore, 
the students have not been identified at the present time.
Wednesday, October 9
(3:00 pm)  A CMU student was riding his bicycle north on Morewood Avenue when he 
slammed into an open door of a parked car. He suffered severe internal injuries and was im
mediately rushed to the hospital, where he underwent an operation and was listed as critical 
for the first few days. Presently, he is out of critical condition and recovering.
Thursday, October 10
A female CMU student received phone harassments, which lasted for three days.
Saturday, October 12
(11:42 pm)  A CMU professor was having difficulties backing his car out of a parking 
lot in the Skibo parking lot. Four black males approached him and offered to help the pro
fessor back his car out. The professor agreed and got out of his car. After they backed the 
car out, they drove away with the professors Chevette. The case has been turned over to the 
city police.
Monday, October 14
A student forgot her wallet outside of Skibo. When she went back to get it, her wallet was 
gone. The wallet contained nine dollars along with her personal cards.
Heinz grants $2 million to 
SUPA for 'active research '
continued from page 1
be neglected or passed over due to the high 
insurgence in high technology and science, 
especially at CMU. Such grants and research 
programs are rarely seen in the areas in 
which SUPA is involved.
For many years, SUPA has been providing 
focal points for various projects and research 
through their varied centers. Centers for 
Criminal Justice, Labor Studies, and Pub
lic Finances and Management are already 
in existence.
This grant will help provide for the for
malization of the centers for Study of 
Governance and Urban and Regional 
Development. It will also create the H.J.
Heinz Chair of Urban and Public Affairs.
We are really seeing a flexibility here. 
SUPA is really going places, Berry said. This 
donation not only gives them the ability to 
expand their programs, but a distinct 
advantage in acquiring of funds for the 
campaign as well as sparking other portions 
of the university to do likewise, according 
to Berry.
SUPA is not done yet. I believe that well 
have more very significant (financial) news 
within a month, he stated. The more that 
this type of thing happens (the Heinz Grant), 
the more value there will always be in that 
degree at graduation.
Registration with Selective Service is an important 
responsibility required by law. If you're eighteen or 
within a month of your eighteenth birthday, you should] 
register. To register, go to any U.S. Post Office, 
pick up a card and fill it out. It only takes about five 
minutes. That's not a lot to ask for a country as great as ours.
g *.'5 S? '<-9
MMRENCE 
UKRMORE N4TION4L MBOR4TORY
TECHNQL 
EXCBLENCE 
SNCE1952
a4My:30y54pa4My:3.b0yO abc0bMM3O 
tMy25b0y54 abc0bMM3O
Our major research programs are: National defense (nuclear weapons and defensive systems research)  Magnetic Fusion Energy
 Laser Fusion  Energy Research  Biomedical and Environmental Research
ON CAMPUS 
TUESDAY 
OCTOBER 29
See your Placement Office for more information, or write to: 
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, P.O. Box 5510, Dept. JCR, 
Livermore, CA 94550.
An equal opportunity employer m/f/h.
U.S. citizenship required.
University of California
I  Lawrence Livermore 
National Laboratory

---------------------------------------------------

m
Choosing a long distance 
company is a lot like choosing 
a roommate.
Its better to know what theyre 
like before you move in.
Living together with someone for the first 
time can be an educational experience.
And living with a long distance company 
isn't any different. Because some companies 
may not give you all the services youre used to 
getting from AT&T.
For instance, with some companies you have 
to spend a certain amount before you qualify for 
their special volume discounts. With some 
others, voice quality may vary.
But when you choose AT&T, there wont be 
any surprises when you move in. Youll get the
same high-quality, trouble-free service youre 
used to.
With calls that sound as close as next door. 
Guaranteed 60% and 40% discounts off our Day 
Rateso you can talk during the times you can 
relax. Immediate credit for wrong numbers. 
Operator assistance and collect calling.
So when youre asked to choose a long dis
tance company, choose AT&T. Because whether 
youre into Mozart or metal, quality is the one 
thing everyone can agree on.
Reach out and touch someone?
AT&T
The right choice.
c 1985 AT&T Communications

---------------------------------------------------

Features.
Apartheid
Few people like "apartness," 
but consensus on action absent
Magazine editor holds seminar on career strategies
By CHRISTY CASAMASSIMA
Tartan Features Editor
Last week, Glamour magazine brought its 
lastest series of career strategies for women 
to Pittsburgh designed to focus on the 
complete woman from her job to office 
policies, her wardrobe to private time. The 
host of the show was Suzan Lauren, a recent 
CMU graduate who is currently Glamours 
Fashion and Beauty Merchandizing Editor, 
traveling across the country conducting 
workshops such as Advancement Strategies 
85 held at Gimbels department store 
downtown on October 15.
Seeing Susan in action at Advancement 
Strategies 85 one would imagine shed had 
a full nights sleep and hours to prepare for 
the five-part seminar. While her position 
may appear easy, it involves a lot of 
sacrifice and hard work. Not only must she 
be prepared to get up in front of crowds and 
speak, she must also be ready to answer dif
ficult questions. In accordance with 
Glamours image, she must always be welldressed and looking her best, even after long 
plane flights, fashion shows, and working 
late. Susan travels four of every five months 
oi the year bringing Glamours point of view 
to women in all parts of the U.S.
She started off the seminar in Pittsburgh 
with a discussion of office politics, advising 
working women of their various alternatives 
for career advancement. She outlined a few 
basic strategies for womans advancement in 
the workplace, including: finding out whats 
going on in the office, building alliances, 
and networking. She warned women to move 
up slowly, not threatening the chain of com
mand. Another tip was to watch out for 
gossip in the office. Although personal and 
professional gossip like whos rising and whos 
not can be useful, when abused gossip can 
lead to a lack of trust among colleagues. Her 
main points were to cultivate the people you 
work with, think of the other workers needs, 
and to think long-term.
Next, she hosted a fashion show which 
demonstrated the concept of wardrobe 
buildinglearning how to get the most out 
f the clothes you have. Along with co
worker, Kimberly Duff, Susan showed how 
to take about fifteen pieces of clothing and 
turn them into over a dozen fall outfits; 
models demonstrated how by mixing dif
ferent tops and bottoms and changing 
accessories.
After the show, Susan posed questions to 
a panel of outstanding women from the Pitt
sburgh area, among them: a lawyer, a TV 
anchorwoman, a movie critic, and a banker. 
She invited the audience to participate 
thoughout the program by asking questions 
and making comments.
Susan returned to CMU for an interview 
in which she talked about her job at 
Glamour and her life at CMU. She looked 
as though she could pass for a Glamour 
model herself; a striking blue eyed brunette 
smartly dressed in the latest fall fasions.
She said she decided to major in Visual 
and Verbal Communications as a sophomore 
at CMU. Since there was no such major of
fered by CMU at that time, she was required 
to make up her own curriculum, submitting 
her course selections to a board of advisors 
for approval. She had the advantage of tak
ing all the courses she wanted, including 
photography, film, and public relations. She 
utilized the skills she aquired at CMU in her 
first position at Glamour as Promotion 
Audio Visual Coordinator, designing and pro
ducing slide presentations for the merchan
dising, sales, and editorial departments.
Susan offered some advice to college 
students who are graduating. She said that 
the period of time after graduation is pro
bably the hardest time in a persons life. She 
advised that persistence is very important to 
landing a permanent job. During the time 
I was interviewing I talked to many different 
employers. While most of them agreed I was 
qualified, sometimes over qualified, they 
never seemed to have any openings. But I 
kept coming back, talking to as many 
employers as I could. I found myself becom
ing resourceful, using all the contacts that 
I could think of. When I walked into 
Glamour, I had this wonderful feeling that 
this was the place for me. Obviously, I was 
persistant. She also advised students to take
Dr. Andrew Barnes gave a history of apartheid at the rally last Friday.Glamour
By LISA McANANY
Tartan Staffwriter
Apartheid: the word itself means apart
ness, the policy is one of govemmentallyenforced racial segregation and I dont know 
anyone who likes it. The media is all but 
saturated with comments about apartheid. 
The word leaps at us from newspapers and 
magazine covers, is constantly on the lips of 
newscasters and occasionally a fellow stu
dent even mentions it. Occasionally.
The problem apartheid presents is a com
plex one. For many issues facing society to
day, it is enough just to be for or against a 
certain policy, but not so with apartheid. Be
ing anti-apartheid is practically a given, so 
the immediate issue is what to do, rather 
than just choosing a stand.
Apartheid involves several questions and 
controversies all interwined in this one pro
blem. How should the system be gotten rid 
of? How much interference is justifiable? Is 
passive resistance best, or are economic sanc
tions necessary? Should we divest hoping to 
bring South Africa to her foreign-tradedependant knees, or is it better to maintain 
investments in the country and try to reform
from within? All of these questions must be 
considered before a responsible position can 
be taken.
Here at CMU, we have to think about the 
Universitys investments in South Africa. 
About one-third of CMUs stocks are in cor
porations with dealings in South Africa. 
Many students nation-wide are protesting 
against their schools having these indirect 
investments in South Africa. The corpora
tions in which CMU currently holds stock, 
all adhere to the Sullivan Principle, a policy 
of equal employment and equal pay in 
South Africa, regardless of race. But does 
this priciple represent a firm enough com
mitment against apartheid? What is indeed 
best? As President Cyert points out, this is 
a country of deep beliefs and many 
splits.. .there is no element binding the dif
ferent groups together, no sense of 
cohesiveness. All these groups must be con
sidered at some point. The oppressed ma
jority may suffer the most from an economic 
collapse in South Africa. Also the South 
African government must be reckoned with 
continued on page 9
Pictured above is a sample of Glamour photography
a course in public relations or public speak
ing. Knowing how to deal effectively with 
people is the key to success in any job. Her 
last bit of advice was, Dont compromise in 
your goals. When someone asks me what I 
did on the weekends at CMU, I tell them I 
did school work. I worked hard so that I 
could get a really good job, not to settle for 
the first mediocre position that was available. 
Dont sell yourself short; if you know youre 
capable of doing a job, then let the 
employers know it too.
In her own life, Susan has adopted and 
mastered what Glamour calls its how-to 
philosophy. She said, Most womens 
magazines show you how you should look, 
period. At Glamour, we try to show you how 
to go about doing anything better, from how 
to wear your clothes to your makeup, to how
to fix your car. The message is: you can take 
an active role in determining the quality of 
your life. She said, Glamours focus on the 
individual is what sets it apart from other 
publications. For instance, instead of tell
ing women that they should wear the latest 
fashion, Glamour tells them how to per
sonalize the trend to fit themselves. Someone 
who buys fashion for fashions sake is what 
Glamour calls a fashion victim, since that 
person doesnt take into account whether 
that fashion looks good on them personally.
Glamours main goal is to cover every aspect 
of a womans life, bringing out the best in 
each individual. Susan travels the nation
wide, bringing Glamouri point of view to the 
reader, and it is obviously an appropriate ex
ample of a Glamour success story.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 8The TartanOctober 22, 1985
CHALLENGE
Meet with Northrop Aircraft Division Monday, November 4, 1985.
At Northrop Aircraft Divi
sion, our challenge involves 
examining the fundamental
characteristics of future 
military requirements and 
then exploring potential 
applications of new and 
existing technologies to meet
those requirements. Meeting 
this challenge has resulted in 
designing, developing and 
producing some of the 
worlds most reliable aircraft 
and airborne systems. Pro
ducts which include the F-20 
Tigershark, the F/A-18, the 
F-5 series, and the 747 
fuselage.
If youre thinking about your 
career after college, consider 
making our challenges yours. 
Northrop Aircraft Division 
will be on your campus, 
Monday, November 4, 1985. 
Check with your Placement 
Office for more details.
PROOF OF U.S. CITIZEN
SHIP REQUIRED. Northrop 
is an equal opportunity 
employer. M/F/H/V
NORTHROP
Aircraft Division
Aircraft Group
HEWLETT
PACKARD
LISTOURMODELCALCULATORSPRICEPRICEHP I1CSlim-Line Scientific75 005995HP-12CAdvanced Financial120 0089.95HP 15CAdvanced Scientific12C 008995HP-16CDigital Programmer120 0089 95HP-41 CVHandheld Computer225 00165.00HP-41 CXHandheld Computer325 00245.00HP-7 IBHandheld Computer525 00395.00
All calculators in stock forsame
day delivery. Call for prices on 
products not listed.
COMPUTERPRODUCTS
DIVISION OF GRAPHIC ARTS SUPPLY
699 Seneca St.
Buffalo, NY 14210
Call: (716) 85'-0004
V.i.r.rr"/1 r
Buggy teams start freerolls this week
Early morning teams arise at five 
to test pushers, drivers and buggies
ing?...BUGGY. Thats right, these were not , 
ordinary college students that were out in 
the cold, they were buggy people. You may 
be saying to yourself, but thats crazy, buggy 
isnt until Spring Carnival, and thats months 
away. Thats right. The actual buggy race 
does not take place until Spring Carnival. 
However, a surprising amount of time and 
effort goes into the buggy event. Buggy in
volves not only a great deal of training for 
the drivers and the pushers, it involves a lot 
of fussing about the technical details of the 
buggies themselves; they have to roll well, 
brake well, turn well, and do just about ^ 
everything well. Testing is the reason behind 
Saturdays five in the morning freerolls, pro
viding the buggy people with an opportunity 
to stop traffic and test out their pushers, 
drivers, and, of course, the all important 
buggies. I should mention, however, that not 
everyone involved on Saturday was a 
buggy person. There were a few unlucky 
policemen assigned to the road detours, and 
people from a few of the buggy organizations 
who were taking their turn sweeping off the 
course and preparing it for the buggies. 
There was also one or two people jabbering 
into walkie-talkies, Im not exactly sure of 
just what they were doing. Doesnt this sound 
like a whole lot of fun? To tell you the truth, 
aside of the radio-guys, (who seemed to be 
enjoying themselves at times), not too many 
of these people looked like they were in 
ecstacy. In fact, most of them looked like 
auditions for a Dawn of the Dead flick. 
The Pikas and Sigma Nus were relatively ac| 
tive and they seemed to take the whole af
fair pretty seriously. The rest of the groups, 
however, were looking at their watches whole5  
lot and yawning. When I asked someone if 
he thought it was really necessary to sacrifice 
a nights sleep, brave the cold, and come out 
this early in the year, just to practice for one 
short racehe turned to me with redrimmed eyed and gave me a look like he was 
going to kill me. I guess that answer is good 
enough for me.
Br MITCHELL REICHGUT
Tartan Staffwriter
Any living being that was awake just 
before the sun came up last Saturday would 
have witnessed a very strange occurence; a 
small humble group of CMU students began 
to file out of their fraternities and dorm 
rooms. Slowly but surely they made their way 
through the bitter cold air over to the road
way behind the GSIA building. When they 
got there, they huddled together in small 
groups. Some of them were wrapped in 
blankets, some had coffee, and others had 
only beer from a late Friday night party to 
keep them warm. One thing that almost all 
of these people had in common was a pale, 
withdrawn look that suggested lack of sleep, 
and possibly the beginning stages of a 
hangover. What, you may ask, in the 
world would bring a group of college 
students out of their beds, or away from their 
parties at five a.m. on a Saturday morn---------------------------------------------------

October 22, 1985The TartanPage 9
Distance contributes to apathy on apartheid
continued from page 7
because through geographic position, they 
are in control of the Cape sea route and be
ing the worlds largest exporter of gold, they 
are an important link in the world-wide 
monetary chain. And though this govern
ment is generally dispicable, it is among the 
strongest anti-marxist government in Africa. 
Needless to say, these issiies have incited con
troversy about what position, what course of 
action is best.
One student group at CMU, Students 
Against Apartheid, favors divestment as the 
best means of bringing an end to apartheid. 
Because South Africa heavily depends on 
foreign trade and industry, supporters of this 
option see it as the best way to ensure that 
the system will collapse. At the same time, 
black laborers would suffer most from the 
resulting loss of jobs. However, some statistics 
suggest that a majority of the black popula
tion would be willing to absorb this 
economic loss for the sake of their freedom. 
In order for divestment to be truly effective, 
there would have to be some amount of na
tional and even international consensus on 
this issue so that the stocks CMU would sell
would not simply be bought by another in
vestor, and so that if American industry left 
the country, French, German or Japanese 
companies would not simply move in and 
take over the now vacant interests.
Many people who do not advocate im
mediate divestment see Sullivans Principle 
as a better method of destroying apartheid. 
They argue that this constructive participa
tion will undermine the current system, 
while improving the economic status of 
blacks, by giving them equal pay. Unfor
tunately, progress with this method is slow. 
Proponents of Sullivans Principle must be 
willing to decide how long they are willing 
to wait and how many lives they are willing 
to see sacrificed before supporting stronger 
actions.
CMU currently has no comprehensive of
ficial policy towards divestment. The ad
ministration upholds Sullivans Principle and 
the issue is still open between President Cyert 
and the Board of Trustees. It is ultimately 
the Board of Trustees who must establish this 
universitys economic policy. But, says 
President Cyert, if apartheid is not gone 
within a year or so, I would personally favor
strong measures. We should then, if only 
because of our personal feelings, divest.
Many of President Cyerts feelings about 
South Africa are based on the personal ex
periences he had there in April, including 
meeting and speaking with black leaders. 
While in South Africa, he tried to promote 
the full scholarships which CMU offers to 
South African blacks. Unfortunately, the 
University has had no such students so far. 
This is directly related to the problem of 
education in South Africa. Cyert said that 
after establishing a sense of nationalism for 
blacks, what blacks most want is to see a 
establish some principles so we can govern 
rent rate of sixty percent illiteracy among 
blacks.
After recognizing the importance of these 
issues, and understanding the various posi
tions people support, why the apathy which 
is so obvious among CMU students? 
Carnegie-Mellon itself puts enormous 
demands on the time of its students, and 
self-interest determines much of our action, 
or inaction. South Africa is far away and we 
are not directly affected. Professor Richard 
Smith of the Social Sciences Department
points out that it is not easy for people to 
see the relevance of an issue which does not 
seem to directly affect them. It is that 
perception of being removed from the issue 
which must change. We are not living 
isolation.
We are enjoying the benefits of a free 
society which was established for us by our 
ancestors, who are intelligent enough to 
establish some principles so we can govern 
ourselves. I think we have an obligation to 
do whatever we can to help others establish 
such a society. If you do nothing, you are 
taking a stand. President Cyert is not op
timistic about the situation in South Africa. 
Indeed no one is. The tension between 
black expectation and white fear, which one 
black leader describes, has left the countrys 
population of 21 million frustrated and on 
the brink of a bloody war. If we support the 
common values which hold the many dif
ferent elements of our own society together, 
then we cannot regard the current situation 
in South Africa as independent of our own. 
We all have an obligation to understand and 
to empathize. As Arthur Miller would have 
it, Attention must be paid.
The N nersc 
Hair des'9n difference
fiords
Haircuts *14 to *16
Lewis
Mon.-Fri. 9 to 9 Sat. 9 to 5
813 S. Aiken Avenue  Shadyside 
682-1063
HOWARD 
JOHNSON
Lodge
119 Newly Remodeled 
Rooms
3401 Boulevard of the Allies Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15213 (412) 683-6100 (800) 245-4444
The Right TurnIt's not always possible to know 
which path leads to a better 
future. That's why TRW's 
Electronics and Defense Sector 
offers you the freedom to move 
among a wide variety of oppor
tunities in microelectronics, high 
energy lasers, large software 
systems, communications, and 
scientific spacecraft. At TRW, 
your first choice can multiply 
into many choices.
Who knows where your career 
can take you? We can only 
promise you'll be challenged to 
explore tomorrow's technology.
 TRW Inc 1985. TRW is the 
name and mark of TRW Inc
Whichever way you turn. 
Tomorrow is taking shape at a 
company called TRW.
Equal Opportunity Employer 
U.S. Citizenship Required
We will be on campus on 
November 5,6.
See your placement office 
for details.
Electronics 
ft Defense Sector

---------------------------------------------------

m mg a
ABConcertspresents
AN EVENING WITH 
WINDHAM HILL
featu ring
LIZ STORY 
MICHAEL HEDGES 
DAROL ANGER
and
MIKE MARSHALL
i/pinu eKW >>, iy,
Hg .TOitsl In -
Thursday, November 14 7:30 p.m.
Carnegie Music Hall
$5.00 for students with valid CMU ID.
Tickets go on sale 9 a.mv October 28
Funded By Student Activities Fee
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

---------------------------------------------------

Entertainment.
The Twilight Zone returns to the airwaves
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
Rod Serling was one of Hollywoods most 
gifted creative resources. His most wellremembered legacy was the Twilight Zone, 
a classic television anthology series that con
tinues to entertain viewers after more than 
20 years of syndicated reruns.
Imitated relentlessly since its inception, 
the Twilight Zone was unique, presenting in
ventive tales of fantasy, science fiction and 
horror each week. Most of the episodes were 
penned by Serling himself, while others were 
written by greats in the field of imaginative 
fiction, such as the late Charles Beaumont, 
Richard Matheson, and Ray Bradbury.
Now, more than a quarter of a century 
after the Twilight Zone first aired and a 
decade after the untimely death of Rod Serl
ing, the Zone is back as a new anthology 
series on Friday nights at 8:00pm on CBS. 
In the abscence of Serling, the executive pro
ducer for the new Zone is Philip DeGuere, 
whose previous credits include such 
uninspiring television fare as Simon and 
Simon. But DeGuere has assembled a firstrate production staff, including story con
sultant Alan Brennert and, in the capacity 
of creative consultant, acclaimed, award 
winning fantasy writer Harlan Ellison. The 
first few shows so far have been varying in 
quality, but on the whole quite promising.
The new Twilight Zone boasts a slightly 
different format. The original series 
featured one half-hour story each week, 
while the new Zone gives us hour-long 
episodes containing two or three different 
stories. Individual segments vary in length 
from a few minutes to a half hour. This for
mat allows for greater flexibility in storytell
ing, and eliminates the need for padding or 
compression that is prevalent in network 
television.
The shows premiere segment was an
By JOHNATHAN STEELE
Tartan Staffwriter
The last two offerings by Junior Rep were 
The Matchmaker by Thornton Wilder and 
Crimes of the Heart by Beth Henley, two 
Pulitzer Prize winning American 
playwrights.
Wilders The Matchmaker, written in the 
late 30s, was a turn of the century yam set 
in Yonkers and New York. Wilder wanted to 
send up the light farces that were the stan
dards of the summer stock in his youth. He 
put in a few unusual monologues addressed 
directly to the audience but basically end
ed up with a turn of the century farce.
The Spectator
It is apealing when done well, as it was 
in this production directed by Seth Gordon. 
The plot has standard comic situations that 
date back to Roman times, but which still 
work. Mistaken identities, dramatic irony, 
characters hiding under tables, etc. Basical
ly, the story revolves around two couples, one 
older and one younger, and in the end the 
complications are all resolved with three 
marriages imminent.
Good preformances were handed in 
basically by all the members of the Junior 
Rep involved. Some of the stand-outs were 
Chris Coad, Delbert P. Highlands, Gregory 
Thomas, A. Edward Manier, Jr., Lothair 
Eaton, Julia Collins, Pamela Winslow, 
Kathryn B. Suber, and Erin Julie Tavel.
The costumes by Martha Bromelmeier 
were quite well done and added a significant 
contribution to the overall effectiveness of 
the show.
adaption of Harlan Ellisons short story 
Shatterday, a metaphorical tale of a rather 
joyless middle-aged man who finds that a 
duplicate of himself is holed up in his apart
ment. Some of the short storys subtlety and 
imagery was, perhaps necessarily, lost in 
translation, but it was an effective piece 
nevertheless.
A Little Peace and Quiet took a poten
tially trite idea a housewife (played by 
Melinda Dillon) finds an amulet that 
enables her to freeze timeand gave it a 
fresh twist and a chilling, an ironic ending. 
Wordplay was a particularly entertaining 
piece, featuring Robert Klein as a medical 
equipment salesman who finds that familiar 
words are suddenly taking on new meanings. 
His colleagues start referring to lunch as 
dinosaur, and the light on his car inex
plicably admonishes him to fasten stepdad. 
Stylishly directed by Wes Craven, it evoked 
the feeling of strangeness and fun the old 
Zone episodes.
A couple segments succumbed to the 
predictability and excessive moralizing that 
marked many of the more routine episodes 
of the original series. Healer was the story 
of a dying thug who finds a mysterious stone 
that gives him the power to heal himself and 
others, but only if he employs it unselfishly. 
Kentucky Rye had good intentions and 
some effectively moody moments, but it 
resolved into a tiresome and overlong sermon 
against drunk driving, delivered, as Serling 
might have said, from a pulpit in...the 
Twilight Zone.
Most people who remember the original 
think of the Zone as a place where ordinary 
people find that things have suddenly gone 
weird for no sufficiently explained reason. 
But many of the old episodes were straight 
science fiction, and such is the case with the 
new series. Dreams for Sale was an in
teresting ten-minute vignette about a woman
Crimes of the Heart was very well receiv
ed at the performance I attended. This was 
the first full-length play Beth Henley wrote 
and it received a Broadway production and 
a Pulitzer Prize. (This makes the Spectators 
heart flutter.) It is a comedy in the Southern 
Gothic tradition of Eudora Welty. The plot 
involves three sisters whose lives have become 
separated over the years. One of the sisters, 
Babe, has shot her husband in the stomach 
and is about to go on trial. Another sister, 
Lennie, is coping with the crisis of her 30th 
birthday and a possible life of a spinster. The 
third sister, Meg, has had too many men 
and is unsuccessfully pursuing a singing 
career in L. A. Additional complications pile 
on quite amusingly, like the hospitalization 
of a grandfather. There is a funny, heart
warming quality to the play, although is it 
surprising that it was considered Pulitzer 
Prize material.
The Junior Rep production was sparkling 
in every way. The direction by Barbara 
MacKenzie-Wood was tight. The set by 
Taylor Morrison was on of the best Ive seen 
in the Studio Theater. Vicki Jeeters lights, 
and Kathy Borlands costumes were both 
very good.
The cast was a uniformly excellent ensem
ble. The three sisters, Julia Collins, Donna 
Fogel and Pamela Winston were all very 
good, and played off each other quite well. 
Kate Harvey as a Chick, Gregory Steres as 
Doc, and J. Michael Curley were fine in 
character roles.
Crimes of the Heart has had enormous 
success playing the LORT cicuit in the 
United States, and receiving numerous pro
ductions around the globe. Judging from the 
Junior Rep production, the entertainment 
value shows why.
worker living in a rather hellish, mechaniz
ed future society where the only escape is 
through realistic, artificially-induced 
dreams. Chameleon was a neat yam with 
some suspenseful moments about a noncorporeal and ostensibly hostile alien that is un
wittingly brought to earth by a space shuttle.
Of course, its not the same any more. The 
original black and white episodes have a cer
tain charm and innocence that can never be 
recaptured, and I miss Rod Serlings ap
pearances as the on-screen narrator. His in
geniously photographed and edited in
troductions were trademark of the series, 
and the new Zone does well not to try to
Jay Leno at the
By BRUCE KASREL
Tartan Staffwriter
On this Friday, comedian Jay Leno will hit 
the stage of the Holiday House Hotel and 
Entertainment Complex in Monroeville for 
two shows. Leno, often called the Bruce 
Springsteen of Comedy, delights audiences 
with his down-to-earth style of humor.
Unlike many of todays comics, Leno uses 
no props or gimicks, no excessive use of 
vulgar language or gestures, he just gets up 
on stage and talks to the audience. It is 
through these neighborly chats, that Lenos 
most impressive quality surfaces his in
credible ability to skewer everyday events and 
make them seem ridiculously hysterical.
His favorite target for his comedic com
mentary is the media. Bringing out the ab
surdities of shows like the A-Team (. . . the 
car went into the lake again who would have 
guessed thatl!) or The Exterminator (I 
wondered where all the money from the Ber
nard Getz Trust Fund went). Lenos humor 
humor is at its sharpest when he focuses on 
the sexist imagery in popular culture. You 
dont need a fur-lined iceberg that is really 
a secret submarine to impress women, he 
commented referring to the James Bond 
movie genre.
Ever since his comic beginnings, Lenos in
sightfulness has given him unlimited 
amounts of quality material and has 
catapaulted the 35-year-old Boston bred 
comedian into the top rank of performers 
today. Performing to sold-out audiences, 
Lenos style has earned him the title The 
King of the Nightclub Circuit. The King 
refers to Lenos resemblance and near
perfect impersonation of Elvis.
duplicate them with a new host.
The episodes so far have been recorded 
on film and then transferred to videotape. 
This procedure, used infrequently on net
work series, gives the show a crisp, cinematic 
look. Some of the photography has been 
quite good. The opening is a sort of 80s 
variation on the original opening, featuring 
a succession of dreamlike images  a field of 
stars, a window closing, a nuclear explosion, 
and a brief, almost subliminal image of Rod 
Serling. The Grateful Deads theme song is 
kind of diffuse, but is nicely ominous and 
seques neatly into a reprise of the original, 
famous eight-note Twilight Zone signature.
Holiday House
One of the main reasons for Lenos in
credible popularity, is his frequent guest 
spots on The David Letterman Show. Letterman and Leno are one of the best 
host/guest combinations on television. As 
far as television is concerned, says Leno, the 
Letterman show is the perfect place for me. 
Leno feels that both of them have a par
ticular type of professional admiration for 
each other in that they share similar 
philosophies on humor and what is ap
propriate. Letterman said, in a recent 
Playboy interview, I styled myself after Jay 
Leno when it came to stand-up comedy. 
Letterman goes even as far to say that  Jay 
Leno is the funniest stand up comic work
ing today. Although they are friends off the 
stage as well, Letterman has yet to invite 
Leno over for dinner.
While Leno patiently awaits the invita
tion, he finds time to ponder lifes most 
pressing questions: why do most men love 
The Three Stooges and most women think 
thev are sillv? Whv do men like to give long 
lectures to their dogs? And why do men, 
cooking for themselves, often decide that 10 
minutes at 400 degrees equals 1 minute at 
4000? Although the answers to these ques
tions may never be uncovered, one thing is 
for certain, Jay Lenos insightful viewpoints 
will continue to point out the humor in our 
lives.
  
Jay Leno will appear at the Holiday House 
on Friday. Show times are 8:30 and 11:30 
p.m. For more information call 856-1500.
The Spectator: Junior Rep

---------------------------------------------------

Page 12The TartanOctober 22, 1985
After Hours: a fun movie with a greatcast
By KAREN ELINICH
Tartan Staffwriter
The Upper East Side of New York may not 
seem like Heaven, but after an unending 
night in the depths of SoHo (South of 
Houston St. in Manhattan), it comes close. 
At least, thats the premise that the new 
Martin Scorcese film, After Hours wants us 
to believe. And it is quite easy to do so.
Laurel Highlands 
Theatre Company
Pittsburgh's Laurel Highlands Theatre 
Company in residence at the North Craig 
Street Theatre presents Hotel Universe, by 
Philip Barry, as the second production of its 
fail/winter season. Featured is a cast of well 
known Pittburgh actors under the direction 
of Edward K. Evans, with Victoria Dym, 
Barbara Holmes and Jeffery Kramer in ma
jor roles.
Hotel Universe is a beautiful, poetic play 
that nostalgically explores the lives of 
weekend guests on an estate in the south of 
France. Caught in a web of past, present and 
future, the guests, after a series of mystical 
travels through their romantic and even 
brutal experiences, are freed to begin life 
anew.
  
Performances of Hotel Universe are at the 
North Craig Street Theatre at 420 N. Craig 
Street, Thursdays through Sundays Oct. 31 
through Nov. 17 at 8:15 with Sunday 
Matinees at 2:30.Tickets may be reserved by 
calling the theatre at 683-3474. Group rates 
are availble.
This wonderful dark comedy revolves 
around a 28 year old word processor nam
ed Paul who goes in search of romance one 
night. His problem is that he goes to SoHo 
to find it.
As he sits reading Tropic of Cancer in a 
coffee shop, a beautiful woman, Marcy, ap
proaches him. She leaves her number and 
he calls her when he gets home. It is 11:32 
p.m. when he leaves on his adventure.
The situations that arise and the 
characters that he encounters are entirely 
bizarre, entirely real, and quite hysterical.
The direction, by Martin Scorcese (Taxi 
Driver, Raging Bull), and script by Joseph 
Minion, are just right. This is Minions first 
screenplay, and it shows incredible talent.
The cast is absolutely glowing with stars: 
Roseanna Arquette, Teri Garr, John Heard, 
Linda Fiorentino, even Cheech and Chong. 
Each of whom is wonderful in small suppor
ting roles. But, the success of the film really 
lies in the hands of Griffin Dunne as Paul. 
He is relatively new to the screen and this 
is his first major starring role. He does 
wonderfully and this film should send him 
off into an extremely successful career.
The entire action of the film takes place 
on just one night. As the night goes on, the 
question is, will Paul ever get home? Will he 
make it back uptown? The film does answer 
the question but youll have to see it to find 
out.
After Hours is really wonderful and a 
whole lot of fun. It has everything you could 
ask for: suicide, bondage, plaster-of-paris, 
bagels and cream cheese, the Monkees, 
beehive hairdos, and 97 cents. Dont let it 
pass you by!Paul (Griffin Dunne) gets his first taste of strange SoHo art in
Sunday thru thursday 7pm10pm
CalculusPH -126A
Pre I, N. HI
PhysicsPH -1266
ChemistryPH - 2256
Englsh as aBH - 1356
second language
EconomicsPH - 2268
Intro to ComputingWB4-5415
Financial AccountingPH-226C
Acodemlc Writing ProblemsBH - 2358
wspar rpsoo fCnCdermatologist
'student discount available 
easily accessible bv bus from CNll
3500 Fifth Ave, Suite 102, Oakland 
682-0616
MasterCard. Visa accepted 
( '.all amx.fintmcui
Dr. Richard J. Hoffman 
Orthodontist
461-0259
683-1210
Special Consideration 
Suite 552 
Medical Arts Building 
5th and Atwood 
Oakland
As an introduction, we are offering 
a 25% discount to all students and 
employees of Carnegie-Mellon University.
ARTHUR BERMAN
DOCTOR OF CHIROPRACTIC
4606 WINTHROP STREET BY APPOINTMENT ONLY
PITTSBURGH, PA 15213 (412)687-1112
Insure your health through 
chiropractic spinal care

---------------------------------------------------


G S O PRESENTS
CDstume 'Tarty
Saturday, October 26 ch:oopm-voo am
Skibo 3allroom
featuring
rBonlonrRoulct
tickets sold only at door 
$2 if wearituj black & white 
J $3 if not
funded by Student Activities Pie ? ID rtcjuircci

---------------------------------------------------

Page 14The TartanOctober 22, 1985
Orson Welles lives on in his classic films
By CURT WOHLEBER
Tartan Staffwriter
With a single film, Citizen Kane, the late 
Orson Welles revolutionized the cinema, 
creating a monumental film classic that set 
standards that in some ways have yet to be 
equalled. When Orson Welles died earlier 
this month at the age of 70, most of us pro
bably first thought of the rotund, bearded 
spokesman for Paul Masson wine and other 
products. But in the 1930s and 40s Welles 
was a young creative genius whose enddeavors in theater, radio, and film brought 
almost universal acclamation. Citizen Kane 
was only one of many of his notable 
achievements.
Welles began his acting career at the age 
of nine, performing as Peter Rabbit at a 
Chicago department store. He made his pro
fessional acting debut in Dublin, Ireland at 
the age of 16. At 19 he made his first Broad
way appearance, performing as Tybalt in a 
production of Romeo and Juliet. At 20 he 
stunned audiences by directing an allblack production of Macbeth. In the late 
1930s he put his mellifluous baritone to eerie 
effect on the radio as the voice of Lamont 
Cranston, aka The Shadow (Who knows
what evil lurks in the hearts of men? The 
Shadow knows...)
He was active in the theater for many 
decades. In 1937 he founded the Mercury 
Theater with John Houseman, and in the 
ensuing years directed and performed in a 
number of critically acclaimed productions, 
including a modem re-staging of Julius 
Caesar, and a production of his own play, 
The Unthinking Lobster.
On Halloween night, 1938, Welles 
presented his infamous radio dramatization 
ofH. G. Wells War of the Worlds. The pro
duction was as a series of news bulletins 
realistically describing the arrival of hostile 
Martian spaceships in Grovers Mill, New 
Jersey. The bulletins were so convincing that 
thousands panicked in the belief that the 
world really was being invaded by aliens.
Welles was only 25 when he began work
on Citizen Kane, which he directed, co
wrote and starred in as the ambitious and 
ruthless newspaper magnate Charles Foster 
Kane (inspired somewhat by real-life news 
tycoon William Randolph Hearst). The 
films portrayal of the rise and fall of Kane 
employed an unprecedented narrative style 
and a wealth of innovative visual devices, 
creating a gripping story that echoes with 
enduring images.
Welles made a number of first-rate films 
after Citizen Kane, including The Magnifi
cent Ambersons and The Stranger, but none 
of them matched the stature of his first film. 
Welles genius was attenuated by an im
pulsive and erratic nature. Impatient to 
move on to new things, he repeatedly left 
projects before their completion, including 
a film version of King Lear. He was eventual
ly considered a bad risk by studio heads and
could no longer get financal backing for his 
film projects. By the 1970s he was reduced 
to accepting supporting roles in secondrate movies and was ultimately subjected to 
the indignity of talk show appearances and 
lending his rumbling voice and portly, 
portentous presence to television commer
cials. It was as if Citizen Kane had prophesiz-<_ 
ed Welles own life, the once mighty reduc
ed to a pathetic husk. For his admirers, his 
death must have inevitably evoked the im
age of the dying Charles Foster Kane, lost 
in memory, uttering that immortal 
enigmatic name, Rosebud.
But that is only the short view. Orson 
Welles contributions are not diminished by 
his eventual, rather tragic fate. For had he 
done Citizen Kane alone and nothing else, 
he would still deserve to be remembered, 
and remembered with awe. ^
Annual alumni show at Forbes Gallery
Random Rock
In 1975 Chrysalis issued an album 
titled Flash Fearless and the Zorg 
Women, Parts 5 & 6, which was a 
parody of the old Flash Gordon serials. 
The album included a comic book, 
whose words were those of the songs. 
The album features performances by 
Alice Cooper, Keith Moon, and fohn 
Entwhistle that are arent available 
elsewhere.
By KATE BONELLO
Tartan Staffwriter
The Forbes Gallery is pleased to announce 
that its annual alumni show will be in the* 
gallery through Sunday, October 27. The 
opening reception will be held tonight from 
7:00 to 9:00 PM.
This years alumni show features the work 
of recent graduates who have chosen to live 
and work in Pittsburgh. Yes folks, Kirk 
Botula, Becky Glaser, Jamie Gruskza, Mike 
Heisler, Evan Knauer, Chris Marcoux, Matt 
Marcus, Jamie Panzer, Gerri Ondrizek, and 
Carolyn Speranza are alive and well and still 
making art, even though theyre out in the 
cold cruel world that lies beyond CMU. 
Art Show is an example to all those who 
think that artists have trouble surviving out
side the loge.
Kirk Botula, for example, gratuated last
year and is now a student in the masterss 
program of GSIA. Business and art may 
seem incompatible, but Kirk has found time 
outside finance and computers to do some 
lithographs. He may be studying to be a rob
ber baron, but hes also a musician in The 
Affordable Floors and a printmaker.
Becky Glasier is now a research assistant 
in the Mechanical Engineering department; 
her job consists of working in the darkroom 
in Hamerschlag Hall. The photographs she 
is showing this week are mostly from her trip 
to California this summer. She takes pictures 
of good friends/good people, saying You 
know Im taking this picture, so do 
something. Thus, her photographs often 
emphasize the way her subjects react to the 
camera, and she manipulates them during 
the printing process to emphasize the situa
tion of the camera and subject.
Evan Knauer, who also graduated in May, 
says I believe in monsters. His paintings 
often turn people into monsters, showing the 
grotesque behind human actions and emo
tions. For the alumni show he is exhibiting 
a ten foot canvas about Halloween which 
should put us all in the mood for THE 
monster holiday. A recent book featuring 
drawings and a story will also be available 
during the week of the showI wont give 
away the plot, but it deals with dreams of 
falling.
Matt Marcus, a 1984 graduate, works 
primarily with spray paint, which enables 
him to manipulate any surface from the 
traditional canvas to refrigerators, kitchen 
cabinets, and vehicles. This week he is show
ing a new painting on canvas and hopeful
ly, some kitchen cabinets. With layers of 
continued on page 15
681-2202 or 681-2203
J

---------------------------------------------------

October 22, 1985The TartanPage 15
By PAUL WRIGHT
Tartan Staffwriter
What can one say about a concert with 
several hundred girls dancing on the floor, 
but which still managed to put at least one 
dissapointed fan to sleep? Lets start with 
Norm Nardini, the warmup for the Roman
tics. For a band with a bassist who looked 
like a reject from Spinal Tap and a singer 
who literally foamed at the mouth, they were 
all right. It was difficult to keep from 
laughing, although the player did play well 
for the short time he actually played his sax 
rather than just waving it back and forth.
When the Romantics finally came on I 
was standing in the front row, ten minutes 
into their set I was driven by sheer boredom 
to the bleachers on the side, five minutes 
later I was driven to the far end of the 
bleachers by the unbearably intense volume.
They did have a few good moments 
however with such tunes as Rock You Up, 
One in a Million, and What I Like About 
You which I must admit sparked en
thusiasm from everyone present, including 
the girl who had fallen asleep earlier. My 
main complaint was that the guitars were 
overbearingly loud, as well as monotonous. 
What I want to know is when are bands like 
this going to realize that they cannot mask 
their lack of talent with sheer volume. 
Although a great many people danced and 
enjoyed the Romantics, I feel the show was 
a great disappointment. My suggestion to 
those who want to listen to good music is to 
hope that the band that played Electronic 
Music last Thursday at Morrisons will play 
again... soon.
United Wby
The Romantics: a disappointing concert
The Romantics did okay with Rock You Up, One in a Million, and What I Like About You, but were disappointing overall.
Annual alumni show at Forbes Gallery
continued from page 14
paint and both freehand and stencilled 
figures, Marcus proves that no object has to 
be boring.
Jamie Panzer graduated in 1984 with a 
degree in graphic design. He is now work
ing with collages that employ design prin
ciples, but which do so with a more artistic 
than commercial effect. This week he will be 
showing some of the collages and a relief 
sculpture.
Carolyn Speranza graduated in May and 
is now working for the City of Pittsburgh in
support of the arts. For the alumni show she 
is displaying one of the towers from her 
ceramic sculpture that was seen during this 
summers Three Rivers Arts Festival, plus a 
newer three-piece sculpture. Her sculpture, 
particularly the towers, has a mystical quali
ty at the same time that it emphasizes the 
earthiness of the clay she works. Carolyn will 
also be exhibiting new relief sculpture for the 
alumni show.
Gerri Ondrizek is now an art teacher at 
the Winchester-Thurston School, and she at
tributes much of her ongoing productivity
to the childeren she works with, who have 
not yet had their creativity and originality 
stifled by the adult world. In addition to the 
works she is displaying this week at the 
Forbes Gallery, Gerri is preparing for an up
coming show at the Associated Artists of 
Pittsburgh.
Gallery hours are Wednesday, 8:00am  
9:00pm; Thursday through Saturday, 
10:00am - 6:00pm; Sunday, 12:00pm 
-5:00pm. Opening receptions are held every 
Tuesday from 7:00 to 9:00pm. The public 
is invited and refreshments are served.
Carnegie-Mellon Univensity
presentsBrian Kernighan
AT&T Bell Laboratories
Little Languages
Tuesday, October 22, at 7:00pm in Gregg Hall
All are welcomeFunded by the Activities Fee

---------------------------------------------------

HDPITTSBURGH and CABLEnc^m
invite you to meet
VI
)iq
ANNE BLOOM and DANNY BREEN
of H BOs 
Award-Winning Satirical Comedy Series
Not Necessarily The News
Friday, October 25, 1985 
12:00-1:00 p.m. 
Skibo Ballroom
ghNNi
COME MEET TWO OF HBOS HOTTEST CELEBRITIES
AND SCREEN A SEGMENT OF 
ONE OF THE FUNNIEST SHOWS ON i HE AIR!
For more information, call Carnegie-Mellon Public Relations at x2900

---------------------------------------------------

Richards and Kelly each tota! over 100 yards
Tartan offense eliminates Grove City
CMU Soccer drops PA C
Bethany scored an easy goal after a CMU 
defenseman slipped on the wet field. This 
happened before five minutes had elapsed. 
Also early in the game, Kevin Jung, one of 
the teams top offensive players, got injured 
and had to leave the game. Coach Nick Gau
dioso commented that Bethany is a defen 
sively oriented team, and that the early goal 
allowed them to play very safely. He also 
mentioned that he thought the refs let the 
game get a little too physical, and that 
Bethany was really fired up for the game. 
He singled out defenseman Alex Tomlinson 
and midfielder Charlie Lockhead as being 
the top players for CMU.
The teams next game will be at 3:30 to
day at home against Frostburg State.
By BONNIE JACOBSON
Tartan Sports Editor
In their last traveling game of the 1985 
season, the Tartans dominated Grove City 
College in a resulting 38-3 victory.
Though GCC came out early with a 23 
yard field goal from prodigious kicker Doug 
Hart, that was the last they would see of the 
goal line.
CMU began an offensive drive with a 
series of succesful yardage gains. Quarter
back Mike Hensel, losing runningbacks 
Mike Minjock and Billy Cramer to injury, 
changed the ususal strategy. Instead he 
made use of other receivers and threw to 
tight-end Tim Kelly for a 30 yard connec
tion. After two minutes, Tony Collaros cross
ed the line on a 40 yard run. Later in the 
quarter, Mike Nazzaro put in a 32 yard CMU 
field goal to make the score 10-3.
In the second quarter, Hensel connected 
to Kelly twice more,one a 50 yard bullet,to 
mark Kellys total game yardage at 126 yards. 
This offensive push put Collaros in the end 
zone on a one yard rush making the half 
time score 16-3.
Golden Richards leads #31 Bill Heiser on one of his two receptionsRunningback Gary Marchionna on one of six successful rushing attempts.
By BOB KOCA
Tartan Staffwriter
The Tartan soccer team went up against 
three teams this week, splitting the decisions 
with two wins and one loss. Unfortunately, 
the loss was against the very crucial Bethany 
team. Now the teams record stands at 8-4. 
Scores were CMU 4, Grove City 1; CMU 4, 
Alliance 0; Bethany 2, CMU 0.
The game with Bethany decided the PAC 
champion and it will also prove important 
when the NCAA Division III playoff births 
are given. The chances of CMU still get
ting a playoff birth are now still possible 
though slim.
The team had bad luck in the beginning 
of the game. On a somewhat flukish play.
In the second half, the passing center swit
ched again to senior wide-receiver Dave 
Golden Richards. Shortly into the third 
quarter, Richards scored with a 56 yard 
reception from Mike Hensel. Bill Heiser took 
the ball over for a 2 point conversion. Dur
ing the quarter, the CMU defense continued 
to stop GCC cold, keeping them to a total 
game rushing of 77 yards to CMUs 308. 
With five minutes left in the quarter Hensel 
managed a one yard rush over the goal line. 
Hensels game totals included 268 passing 
yards and 23 rushing. He also had 11 out of 
20 attempts completed.
CMU entered the fourth quarter with a 
substantial 31-3 lead. As is their tradition, 
they did not allow their opponents 
threaten. Early in the quarter, Richards 
scored his second touchdown off of a 33 yard 
pass from Joe Mollica. Richards totals for 
the day included 6 receptions for 134 yards, 
making him probable choice for Player of 
the Game.
This victory put CMU in good mental 
shape for their Homecoming match-up 
against W&J.
photo by Lnk Horn
Tight-End Tim Kelly snagging a pass on a CMU offensive drive.
3
photo by Erik Horn
Wide Receiver Dave Richards grabs Hensel pass for a touchdown agamst Grove City.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 18The TartanOctober 22, 1985
Keith Stopen concentrating on his fifth place finish
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Inconsistency. It has been the downfall of 
more than one team. And it drives coaches 
wild.
But for the Penguins, inconsistency can be 
considered a virtue, or at least a hopeful 
sign. The Penguins can look awful, even to 
the point of embarassment. If they played 
that way consistently, vendors would soon 
outnumber fans.
But Pittsburgh has also demonstrated the 
ability to play suprisingly skilled hockey. The 
defense undergoes a Jekyl and Hyde-like 
transformation from docile skaters to hard
hitting bullies, while the offense finally seems 
to realize the object is to put the puck in the 
oppositions net, instead of the upper 
balcony.
A case in point: the Pens 3-2 win over the 
Minnesota North Stars, their first victory of 
the season. For most of the first two periods, 
The Penguins play was lethargic at best. 
Especially distressing was the play of the 
defense, which seemed better suited to the 
role of campground attendants for the 
numerous North Stars packed in the crease.
But from the tail end of the second period 
on, the Penguins played like an entirely dif
ferent team. Offensive keystones like 
Lemeiux, Bullard, Simpson, and Shedden 
suddenly began penetrating the previously 
impermeable Minnesota defense, while the 
hometown defenders suddenly added aggres
sion to their repertoire.
It all seemed to help. The Penguins 
erupted for three third period goals to turn 
what looked like yet another close loss into 
a 3-2 victory.
Coach Bob Berry must be frustrated by 
schizophrenic nature of his team, but it has 
to be expected. Eleven of the 26 players on 
the opening day roster were newcomers. As
soon as the players grow more accustomed 
to working and playing together, the teams 
true nature should become more apparent.
ARENA NOTES: The Spirit played their 
only Arena pre-season game Friday against 
the Minnesota Strikers, and emerged with 
a 4-3 victory. Despite missing many scoring 
opportunities, new coach Don Popovic is 
satisfied. Just the fact that we had that 
many opportunities makes me happy. The 
home opener is Friday against arch-rival 
Cleveland, 8:05 p.m. The Arena has a fresh 
look, with new hockey/soccer glass and 
boards, plus new nets for the Spirit.
Ultimate team wraps up most successful season
By ROBERT BERKOWITZ
Special to The Trtan
Two weekends ago CMUs Ultimate Team 
marked the end of their most successful 
season in the schools history. Mr. Yuk (the 
teams name) represented the school in the 
open division regional playoffs held in 
Princeton, NJ. Going into the tournament, 
the team was ranked third in the region due 
to a 6-0 performance the weekend before at 
the sectional playoffs. That ranking was the 
highest ranking of any college Ultimate team 
from Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Virginia,
New Jersey, North Carolina, District of Col
umbia, and Delaware.
While Mr. Yuk was unable to qualify for 
one of the two openings into the national 
playoffs to be held this weekend in 
Washington D.C., they did put in a number 
of respectable games against "national caliber 
teams. We had been seeded in a tough 
bracket, said the teams captian Smoke 
Mydak. The first day we had to play the 
defending collegiate national champs from 
the University of Pennsylvania and a team
During the time you're an undergraduate or graduate student, 
you may experience some of the following.
DEPRESSION  ANXIETY  LONELINESS  ANGER  CAREER DOUBTS
 FAMILY TROUBLES  DIFFICULTY WITH FRIENDSHIPS  
SEXUAL QUESTIONS  MARITAL OR PARENTINC PROBLEMS
 LACK OF MOTIVATION  SLEEPING OR EATING PROBLEMS
Up to a certain level these feelings are quite normal, but when they begin to get 
in the way or overwhelm you, psychotherapy may be of help. Approximately 
half of our patterns are students.
If you are interested in seeking such help through insight-oriented, confi
dential psychotherapy on a sliding ice scak\ call 601-2300 and ask for Mrs. 
Brown Qualified therapists will be available to speak with you. We are only 2 
miles from Oakland, an easy bus ride. Insurance coverage can often be utilized.
Call Tel-Aid 
at
281-4664 Tape #6006 
For a preview of 
who we cure and 
what we do
from DC that has been to nationals the last 
two years in a row. We upset Penn last 
weekend, but not this one. And we had the 
DC team in a 10-10 tie until we just ran out 
of steam; it was our fourth game of the day 
and they had more subs than we did. 
Despite a 2-2 record for the weekend, the 
team thought it was a good ending to the 
best season they have ever had. During the 
season, Mr. Yuk traveled to cities as far away 
as Purchase, NY to compete against club 
teams. Weve beaten everyone there is to 
beat in the area so we have to travel to get 
good games, said Mydak. What we are 
really looking forward to is the spring season 
when only college teams are involved in the 
playoffs for spots at nationals. Last spring 
we placed third in our region, but only the 
top two teams make it to nationals. This
spring we should have no problem getting 
there if everyone on the team stays in school 
and stays healthy.
Since the school can not provide the 
financial resources necessary to support the 
team, team members pay for travelling ex
penses out of their own pockets. You can tell 
that everyone on the team is psyched because 
we travel somewhere every weekend. The 
costs really add up, but people seem to find 
the money, noted Mydak. In order to help 
subsidize the traveling expenses, .the team 
is selling frisbees. Mydak hoped that discs, 
which can be purchased from team 
members or in the bookstore, would sell well 
during the later part of the semester so that 
the team would have some funds for the 
spring.
The Pittsburgh Psychoanalytic Center 211 N Whitfield St, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15206 
A private clinic in the public service
THE ADDISON GROUP
We are the new Pittsburgh Office of a small London based management con
sultancy. We work in the areas of company and market strategy, largely in 
the industrial field. We need a research assistant to aid in developing work 
in the USA around interesting ideas and companies. We would like someone 
who is a self-starter, who is interested in industry, has possibly a research ^ 
background, who is challenged by unstructured ideas and a stimulating in
tellectual environment. We would consider initially a part-time commitment, 
but the successful candidate could envisage a permanent postion as our work 
grows.
Please send a letter of application and a resume to:
Martin Shore 
The Addison Group
4 NorthShore Center
Pittsburgh, PA 15212 _______________
Another win for the unstoppable CMU Harriers
BY BARBARA FREESE
Tartan Staffwriter
Carrying a Division III National Record 
of 71 consecutive wins, the Cross Country 
team was honored in pre-game ceremonies 
of the CMU-WJ football game. Head Coach 
Gary Meckley was presented with a plaque 
by Camegie-Mellon President Richard Cyert 
for leading the team to a national record.
Youngstown State University and Saint Fran
cis. The CMU men were victorious over YSU 
by a score of 20-43 and shut-out St. Fran
cis, 15-50. Although a YSU runner by the 
name of Brauer won the meet overall, 
Carnegie-Mellon clinched the win by taking 
the next seven places.
Overall Individual Standings (CMU)
Time 26:27
3rd Mark Sulecki 
4th Curtis Meuse 
5th Keith Stopen 
6 thTom Ford 
8th Dean Danowski 
9th Paul Myer
Time 26:35 
Time 26:53 
Time-27:07 
Time 27:12 
Time 27:32 
Time-27:48
This brings their season record to 8-0. 
Coach Meckley commented that the team 
has had to battle much sickness and injury,
but now they are almost back to full 
strength.
The week prior to mid-term break, CMU 
took its B team to Fairmont State. They 
came in second to Indiana University by only 
one point.
In closing, Coach Meckley stated that if 
the team stays healthy and injury free, they 
will have a good chance at the conference 
championships.
Paul Carnine leads the Harriersphoto by Olve Peersen
The volatile Penguins will improve with time

---------------------------------------------------

Your favorite 
Wendys, Arbys, 
Kentucky Fried Chicken, eta 
delivered to your dorm. 
Call687-FOOD
5:00 p.m. to Midnite 7 Days a Week. 
Dorms/Fraternities/Sororities Only
Collegiale Delivery Services, Inc.
Eat the best for less!
Welcome to Bertos Family Restaurant 
. . . We offer a wide variety of items 
for your selection so to satisfy any type 
of appetite ... all at an affordable 
price.
4910 BAUM BIVD., PITTSBURGH, PA 15213
682-6650
SPECIAL STUDENT DISCOUNT: 15% off any price withCMU I.D.
Most dinners under $5.00!SANDWICH SPECIALS
TROJAN SANDWICH 3.25
Thinly sliced beef atop stick bread 
beneath melted feta and provolone 
cheese, tomato and onion . . .fin
ished with our special dressing
GRILLED REUBEN 3.25 
Sliced turkey and corned beef topped 
with Swiss cheese and sauerkraut 
. . .all piled on rye bread with ko
sher dill
GRECIAN SPECIALS
BROILED BEEF OR LAMB KEBAN 5.25
your choice of meats served on a
skewer with chunks of vegetables, in$ 1.00 off any dinner en tre
eludes rice pilaf and a small Greek
salad (with CMU I.D.)
STEAK SALONKA 4.95
A tender steak prepared in a tradi^ ^ _____
tional Greek style, with rice pilaf and OPEN "7 DAYS A WEEK
a small Greek salad
Hey rockers, punkers, new wavers rastafarians, headbangers, and all rock-n-rollers!!
Come to the second
Rock-N-Roll Club 
Meeting
Thursday, Oct. 24 8:30 p.m. Room 11 Skibo
For those interested in:
 Forming a musicians exchange
 Trading albums
 Sponsoring small concerts and CMU bands
 Songwriting
 Sponsoring transportation to larger concerts
 Showing rock-n-roll films
 and anything else we can think of...

---------------------------------------------------

Page 20The TartanOctober 22, 1985
Fraternity & Sorority Pledges: Fall 1985
Alpha Tau Omega: Jon Barnes, Mike 
Bloom, Jerry Bosch, Jim Camp, Mike 
Erdelsky, Mike Fong, Chris Koschko, Paul 
Lawrence, Tom O Toole, Chuck Palmer, 
John Reese, Bill Schurman, Kevin Shaw, 
Nick Spanos, Harry Tan, Jon Zikoski.
Beta Theta Pi: Rob Arthur, Gary Barnett, 
Paul Browning, Roy Guy, Bill Cramer, Chris 
Haupt, Sean McGinn, Tony Mozeleski, 
Mark Peters, Doug Sargent, Steve Slezinski, 
Steve Stone, Mike Sweeny, Charley Vaught.
Delta Delta Delta: Jane Allen, Shobana 
Balasubramaniam, Sue Cheskes, Lisa 
DeFade, Jill Dorson, Lori Graber, Melissa 
Peck, Beth Redd, Eileen Rosa, Laura 
Schloss, Liz Strohm, Deborah Tierno, Kate 
Venison.
Delta Gamma: Paulla Allen, Vikki Lees, 
Fran Duffy, Lisa Weaver, Lori Augustine, 
Pam Oliviera, Alice Seubert, Jakie Kastner, 
Jean Camlieig, Shari Miller.
Delta Upsilon: Mark Allen, Shawn Ash, 
Scott Bale, Victor Banko, Doug 
Chamberlin, Dave Cohen, Vrian Davidson, 
Todd Donmover, Mike Frank, Pat Garrett, 
Jeff Haag, Pete Hill, Jim Hinrichs, Bruce 
Holmes, Rob Kissell, Jerry Kromer, Dave 
Mannhener, John Mclnnes, Ken Minor, 
Todd Moir, Brendan OConnor, Paul 
Paridon, Greg Phillips, Dan Rossi, Dave 
Rykaczewski, Greg Schooley, Kris Tomasson, 
Andre Urbanski, Mike Willingham.
Kappa Alpha Theta: Dory Binyon, Rhon
da Bovamick, Susan Brunt, Mary Byrne, 
Lynanne Carr, Kathy Carter, Patrizia Costa, 
Lisa Elavsky, Carol Evans, Tina Hatchl, 
Marian Guinn, Amy Liposky, Marilyn 
Marcelli, Zoey Sadler, Baug Shirali, Liz 
Tierno, Michele Woods.
Phi Kappa Theta: Tim Bauder, Carl Bell, 
Jeff Cardille, John Deley, Jeff Diehl, Mike 
Heron, Tomis Inomata, Pete Lonsky, Chris 
Karle, Shawn Mangan, A1 Margarellla, Pat 
Steppic.
Pi Kappa Alpha:
Robert Dressier, Eric Friedman, Andrew 
Gillespie, Michael Luterman, Peter 
Malkemes, Joseph Martineau, Kai Mebust, 
Roger OConner, Scott Osman, Michael 
Smith, David Weiss, Stephen West
Pi Lambda Phi: Johnathan Schembar, 
Mike Rafa, Stepha Chan, Bill Kerwin, Jason 
Stauros, Sam Penningtan, Robert Moses, 
Todd Bross, Chris Kauffman, Andrew Bros, 
Jay Schleidcker, Phillip DiFrancesca, Paul 
Garen, Kurt Zentmainer, George Baggoll, 
Gray Rotz, Dave Johnson, Rob Malar, Tom 
Gilmore, Eric Weisblat, Dat Gno, Hank 
Rettger.
Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Paul Bigby, Bill 
Blake, Brian Bresnahan, Vince Collins, 
Charles Dunston, John DTJrso, Fred Goff, 
Julian Graystone, Vernon Hopkins, John 
Howell, Randy Johnston, Stuart Dejong, 
Chuck Dan Korsik, Howard Lossing, Scott 
Lyon, Alex Michailidis, Mike Palombo, Bob
Pyle, Tim Rovnak, Andy Salamy, Craig 
Schor, Pat Sheedy, Eugene Shephard, Carl 
Smith, John Springer, Bob Steranowicz, Jim 
Willaims, Mark Zoldi.
Sigma Nu: Walter Barie, Dean Bennett, 
Pa trie Boyle, Brent Coullard, Bill Decoste, 
Todd Dimaria, Jeff Dowley, Ryan P. Foran, 
Bob Freeman, Keith Giffels, Ron Hira, 
Adam Pokey Hokansson, Mark Hollander, 
Joe Hradnansky, Shek Jain, Scott Jones, 
Chris Knowles, Dan Labaise, Mike Lum, Sid 
Ramchandiran, James Shaw, Chris Sheeler, 
Tim Skwiot, Shawn Shee, Mark Wabalas, 
Pete Wolcott, Mike Zandon, Peter Zielinski.
Theta Xi: Greg Allard; Brian Battaglia 
David Bishop, Doug Cabell, Cory Dworken, 
Paul Edelman, Ed Garofolo, Ben Herr, Chen 
Huang, Paul Lambert, Hal Levine, Rory 
Malvey, Seth Ott, Jim Patterson, Andy 
Rabin, Andy Bobitshek, Jeff Rohde, Mark 
Samber, Chris Shanly, Eric Swenson, 
Stephan Traynor, Bill Ulicny, Barry Walker.
Youre deep under the sea.
There are 4600 tons of nuclearpowered submarine around 
you. Your mission - to preserve 
the peace.
Your jobto coordinate a 
practice missile launch. Every
thing about the sub is state-ofthe-art, including you.
The exercise-a success. Youre 
part of that success and now
In the nuclear Navy, you learn 
quickly. Over half of Americas 
nuclear reactors are in the 
Navy. And that means you get 
hands-on experience fast.
You get rewarded fast, too. 
With a great starting salary of 
$22,000 that can build to as 
much as $44,000 after five years. 
And w ith training and skills 
youll use for a lifetime.
Then, whether voure in the
Mediterranean, the Pacific or 
the Atlantic^wherever you 
move around the world, youll 
be movingTip in your career 
and in the Navy.
Find out more about an 
exciting futurethat you can """ 
start today'.
See your Navy Recruiter or
CALL 800-327-NAVY.
youre riding high. Then, whether youre in theNAVY OFFICERS GET RESPONSIBILITY FAST.

---------------------------------------------------

The Twenty-First 
Century Overture
VV here will time take us next?
To an information utopia where knowledge belongs to everyone? To an age when the computer becomes one with communications and 
thought travels everywhere, anywhere and at anytime? To a brave 
new world where electronic intuition solves the impossible 
problems that have followed us through history?
Getting to this future first is our mission.
Were Bell Communications Research (Bellcore), established as the 
central source for the research and technologies that will enable 
the Bell Operating Companies to meet the needs of the future.
We are working in areas that include software development; applied research; information systems; systems engineering; 
network planning services; and equipment assessment.
Our purpose is to know more, understand more, see 
more so that we can provide others with the expert 
advice they need in many different technical 
and scientific areas. Our mandate is 
to provide leading edge answers.
The Bell Operating Companies look to us for the software 
technologies they 
to
We are a brain trust that 
imagines a new tomorrow.
^ ' We have opportunities
at our northern and central New Jersey locations for 
individuals with PhD, MS or BS 
degrees in Electrical Engineering,
^ Computer Science, Mathematics, Operations
Research, Chemistry, Physics, or Human Factors Psychology.
If you want to write the technological harmonies that the future 
will play
Meet us on October 28
Alternatively, send your resume, detailing your education and 
experience to: Manager, Technical Employment, Bell Communica
tions Research, RRC, Department 127/3538/85, CN 1300, Piscataway, New Jersey 08854.
An equal opportunity employer
Bell Communications Research
Because the mind mast meet the future

---------------------------------------------------

EdHnriaL
New property policy 
fair to both parties
Intellectual Property is one inevitable product of people in 
an institution whose two goals are excellence in education and 
research. Since conflicts over its ownership and use may arise 
between the creator and the university of which he is a part, 
a mutual agreement is needed to verbalize each partys rights. 
Such an understanding must also make clear how this Intellec
tual Property fits into the universitys long-term goals. CMUs 
Intellectual Property Policy ably fulfills these criteria by 
establishing the relationship between both groups and making 
clear which people make decisions on CMUs behalf.
The Intellectual Property Policy is an enlightening reading. 
It expresses CMUs lofty goals of generating and communicating 
knowledge to society. To this end, the policy calls for achieving 
a university setting condusive to discovery and enticing creators 
with the prospect of monetary returns. As a result, CMU has 
imposed the responsibility on itself to ensure facilities are modem 
and well-maintained. A condusive environment must meet 
non-academic needs also, such as flowers on the Fine Arts lawn 
and good meals in the school cafeterias.
The new policy does away with the outdated ideas and am
biguities of the 1975 Patent Policy. This previous policy fails to 
define the key terms of substantial use of funds and facilities 
and invention. Stipulations that all inventions be disclosed 
in writing to the University Patent Officer are ridiculous. The 
new policy, in addition to clearing up these misunderstandings, 
includes the following improvements:
 One provision allows the creator, with CMU s help, to place 
his work in the public domain. Public dedication is decidedly 
the best way of contributing knowledge to society; CMUs deci
sion to assist with this process agrees with its mission.
 Ownership provisions of computer software are carefully 
defined in order to avoid embarrassments like SCRIBE.
 The employment status of the creator when he creates the 
Intellectual Property is more throughly considered. Faculty 
rights are different from, say, hired programmers.
 Most importantly, the new policy provides a system of checks 
and balances between the creator and CMU to ascertain that 
new discoveries do not stagnate through not being developed. 
Intellectual Property created by students with substantial use 
of funds or facilities becomes the creators property if he 
develops it and gives CMU a royalty-free license. However, failure 
to develop the property causes it to become up for grabs bet
ween whomever decides to develop it first.
The new policy is not without flaws. Its most crucial short
coming is that it is not in a student's best interest to elect to 
be covered by the Intellectual Property Policy. The new policy 
reflects CMUs philanthropic desire to enrich society with 
knowledge. Those with similar orientations may rest assured that 
coverage by this policy is a fair way to reward both society and 
themselves. However, the old policy is much more lenient in 
terms of what the creator can get away with. This flaxness is 
attributable in part to the Software Copyright Act of 1980, which 
the old policy could not take into account. Also, students may 
rest comfortably in the ambiguities of the old policy and still 
reach to the university for aid in its development.
Some opponents of the new policy will argue that Intellec
tual Property should invariably belong to its creator. This argu
ment of finders keepers in a metaphorical sense is unreasonable 
because CMU does support the campus community and is en
titled to share monetary rewards if its resources are heavily used.
Others may argue against CMU s obligations to society, but 
the policy adequately deals with courses of action within this 
framework.
The fina^virtue of the new policy is its inclusion of two sec
tions which-guarantee its future usefulness. A sampling of CMUs 
undergraduate and graduate student body as well as that of the 
faculty, administration, and technical staff, comprises the com
mittee to re$olve property ownership disputes.
In allowing the CMU faculty and population to represent 
CMU in its stance toward Intellectual Property, President Cyert 
has shown his faith in allowing decisions of this scope to be re
solved by the universitys constituents. In this spirit, The Tar
tan endorses the Intellectual Property Policy and eyes the future 
with the hope that all issues of this sort will be similarly resolved.
UNITIIUEU
Letters:
Students express sympathy
Editor:
This letter, which I am unac
customed to writing, is addressed 
to no one in particular.
I would like to express the 
deepest sympathies on behalf of 
myself and the fraternities and 
sororities and the brothers and lit
tle sisters of Theta Xi. The
tragedy of Ed Weatherlys loss is a 
sad moment in the lives and 
brothers of Theta Xi. Theta Xi 
and the Greek system are built 
on basic fundamental values of 
love, brotherhood, caring and 
friendship. With these values, life 
at Carnegie-Mellon University is 
made just a little easier, but we are
not immune to the tragedies of 
life. It is good to know that there 
is always a friend during the bad 
times.
Adam C. Susser 
Richard Theg, Monica Smith, 
Dan Preston, Mark Sander * 
and Jim Denburg
Past parking story misleading
Editor:
The story on the proposed move 
of Auxiliary Services s Parking and 
Administrative office space in 
Warner Hall to Skibo is generally 
accurate, but missing in some 
essential details. The headline to 
the story, Student Spaces 
Swallowed by Auxiliary, is 
misleading, however.
The headline strongly suggests 
that Auxiliary Services was the 
driving force behind a move from 
Warner Hall to Skibo. In fact, the 
motivation for the move was the 
absolutely intolerable space con
ditions of the Office of Student 
Affairs in Warner Hall. Basical
ly, Student Affairs currently has 
two private offices for five profes
sionals. Aside from the poor work
ing conditions for Student Affairs 
staff is deplorable. Parking and 
the Auxiliary Service Administra
tion occupies two offices adjacent 
to Student Affairs in Warner Hall;
moving Auxiliary Services 
elsewhere was a logical solution to 
a Student Affairsand student 
space problem. The logical 
destination for Auxiliary Services 
outside of Warner Hall is Skibo.
The Space Allocation Subcom
mittee of the Capital Allocation 
Board was presented with a pro
posal to renovate space in Skibo 
to accomodate Auxiliary Services. 
The proposal was not completely 
acceptable to the Space Subcom
mittee or the Capital Allocation 
Board. The Board was unhappy 
with those features of the proposal 
which attempted to use the move 
of two Auxiliary Services office 
spaces to Skibo as the occasion for 
significantly reorganizing Aux
iliary Service space in Skibo. 
There were additional problems 
with the associated costs and the 
amount of encroachment on stu
dent activities space. The Capital 
Allocation Board asked Auxiliary
Services and the Vice President 
for Business Affairs to reduce the 
space involved and revise the 
proposal.
A general concern on the part 
of students for meeting space in 
Skibo is welcome. The staff for the 
Space Allocation Subcommittee is 
now working with Auxiliary Ser
vices and Student Affairs (as 
building manager for student 
space in Skibo) to come up with 
an acceptable location in Skibo 
for displaced Auxiliary Services 
space. After examining some of 
the existing space in Skibo, it is 
clear to me that some of it is 
underutilized. I am confident we 
can arrive at a solution to this pro
blem that is appropriate for all 
concerned. Student organizations 
will be consulted.
John P. Crecine 
Senior Vice-President for 
Academic Affairs
> I
Parking vs. intellectual choice
Editor:
Mr. Garrity, in his letter of Oc
tober 8, 1985, presented a very in
teresting viewpoint that CMU 
being an intellectual university, is 
not a place to park cars. I agree 
with Mr. Garrity that students do 
not come to CMU solely to park 
cars. However, the independence 
of parking and intellectual 
thought and learning do not
belong at a university. To follow 
Mr. Garritys line of reasoning, 
neither eating nor sleeping belong 
at a universityand yet everyone 
of us do both.
Mr. Garritys claim that 
students should not expect to park 
this cars at CMU may pose a slight 
inconvenience to those living on 
campus. However, Mr. Garrity 
gave no reguard to commuter
students, part-time students, and 
all graduate students. Many of 
these students do not (or cannot) 
live within the specified service 
area for the campus escort service. 
Consequently, there exists three 
primary means of transportation: 
1. walking/biking, 2. public 
transportation, and 3. automobile 
transportation.
continued on paga 25

---------------------------------------------------

October 22, 1985The TartanPage 23
Apartheid issues presented for informed choice
By Donald Starver
During the week of October 13th, a group 
of CMU students set up tables at various 
locations on campus to solicit signatures for 
a petition, this petition called for the univer
sity to divest itself of all holdings in com
panies which have economic ties 
RePublic of South
^ Africa. I, being interested in the
0  reaction of CMU students to the
petition, took the libel^yrof observing the 
tables for several hours and listening to some 
of the exchanges which took place. As I 
listened, two things became evident: A large 
portion of the campus population is 
apathetic toward issues which do not have 
a direct impact on their daily affairs, and 
the majority of the students who stopped at 
the tables were either uniformed or underin
formed of the current state of affairs in 
South Africa.
It is not my intent to sell anyone on a par
ticular course of action to alleviate the woes 
of South Africa. However, I do feel that each 
of us needs to be knowledgable of the rele
vant issues so that we can formulate our own 
well substantiated opinions on this matter.
In this light, it is my intention to provide 
information which may be helpful to in
terested parties, and which will answer some 
of the most frequently asked questions.
What is Apartheid?
Apartheid is South Africas system of 
legalized separation of races. Apartheid 
denies all civil and human rights to the black 
maioritv and ensures white supremacy.
Apartheid deprives the Blacks of South 
Africa citizenship. Africans cannot vote, buy 
or sell land, live or work where they choose 
to work, live together as a family, or move 
freely. They cannot be outdoors after 11:00 
p.m. They cannot purchase land in white 
areas and cannot remain in the white areas 
without a permit.
The African majority, which accounts for 
73 percent of the population, is segregated 
into tiny, impoverished wastelands called 
Bantustans (similar to American Indian 
Reservations). The Bantustans comprise 13 
percent of the total land area of South
Africa. The land is barren, and almost total
ly devoid of minerals. Without land to 
cultivate, the Africans are left with only their 
ability to work, which they are forced to sell 
to the white minority (15 percent of the 
population).
The Africans are assigned to a specific 
category of occupation and must accept 
whatever job is given to them. When hired, 
the worker must sign a labor contract that 
is good for no longer than one year. The 
worker must then move away from the Bantustan, leaving his or her family behind, to 
the area in which he is to be employed. At 
the end of the contract period, the worker 
must return to his or her Bantustan for at 
least two weeks to await further employ
ment. In this way, most migrants spend a 
good part of their adult lives away from their 
homes and families.
Blacks earn on the average less than a 
third of what white workers do. Over 60 per
cent of Black families earn less than the 
White government says is necessary to sur
vive. Working conditions lack even minimal
safety measures. Between 1936 and 1966 
more than 19,000 miners lost their lives in 
the mines. Thats an average of three per 
shift.
Less than half of black adults can read 
and write. Whites get free schooling. Blacks 
must pay for it, when its available at all.
What are South Africans fighting for?
The desire of the South African people 
are proclaimed in a document known as the 
Freedom Charter.
The Freedom Charter was unanimously 
adopted at a Congress of the People held 
in Kliptown on June 25-26, 1955. The con
gress was convened by the African National 
Congress, together with the South African 
Indian Congress, the South African Colored 
Peoples Organization, and the Congress of 
Democrats (an organization of Whites sup
porting the liberation movement).
The Charter was adopted by the four 
sponsoring organizations as their policy and 
became a manifesto of their struggle for 
freedom.
continued on page 25
Students must question contentment with CMU
By Scott Bonner
Welcome to CMU, freshmen. When 
midsemester break finally came you should 
have realized that you have come to a 
university that will demand a whole lot more 
of you. . . an awful lot. You may have 
discovered that there is not 
\C^ much time to think about 
material covered because with 
 five courses, just keeping up with 
assignments and tests occupies most of your 
time. And when you find free time, you feel 
it has to be used to relax, or you would find 
yourself going insane.
The harsh reality of life at CMU may seem 
to contradict your images of college. A 
university should be a place where one has 
time to not only work but to understand con
cepts and apply them. There should be time 
not just for dealing with problem solving or 
paper writing but for developing your own 
personal philosophy and goals in life. Time 
should exist for contemplating the purpose 
of your work and yourlife and how what you 
do effects others,. (I am glad that at least 
now implications of technologies worked on
here are considered.) In college there should 
be an open exchange of ideas going on bet
ween students covering a wide range of 
philosophical, technical, . . . and political 
issues.
But you say where can we find time to 
think at CMU? Five courses is enough to oc
cupy all but the needed time to relax, sleep 
and let loose. After all college is the Best 
time of my life., isnt it? But is it? Enough 
pressures seem to exist here to gnaw at just 
about anybody. Where is the time to think? 
Is life more than just working hard and then 
partying up?
You may say  Ill just get through four 
years here, not worry too much about 
understanding courses in depth, but just try 
to do a decent job in them. Then 111 get out, 
get a nice job, and my worries, pressure, and 
time constraints, will all be over. .. right? 
Wrong! It may be only an eight hour day at 
first, but if you advance in a company, the 
pressure, worries, time constraints. .. con
tinually increase (not to mention the com
plications married life can bring!). Time to 
think through the implications of what one
is doing is often limited. So at CMU you have 
people who frequently have not thought 
through the implications of the technologies 
theyre discovering, going into high pressure 
jobs where they wont have time to think 
about such things either. Scary isnt it? (If 
such issues interest you, I recommend atten
ding the Technology And Responsibility 
discussion/lectures held bisemesterly [I love 
making up new words!] on campus the 
next being Nov. 17.)
If you are dissatisfied with the atmosphere 
at CMU and feel there is too much pressure 
directed in a concentrated area, I would 
recommend considering whether you really 
want to spend seven more semesters here. An 
application to transfer may be the wisest 
thing you do this semester because this 
should be a time not only to learn but also 
to enjoy. Far from being a sign of failure, 
it would be a sign of a dissuade you by 
statements like You should be able to make 
it through. Just try a little harder. or Itll 
get easier with time. (because it wont). Im 
not saying that everyone who is slightly 
dissatisfied should leave because I believe
More Letters: Vegetarians unsupported
Editor:
Although the reasons behind adopting a 
vegetarian diet vary widely between in
dividuals, the fact remains that a substan
tial portion of the campus community has 
chosen this option. The cafeterias on this 
campus recognize our presence and accor
dingly offer selections to accomodate us.
This acknowledgement is commendable 
and also necessary in a university in which
a dining service monopoly exists. As things 
stand now, however, the university dining 
services support of vegetarianism is sadly in
adequate. Its meatless fare is not suitable for 
extended consumption. In addition, UDS 
takes an indeterminate stand on its will
ingness to cater to us.
In attempting to compensate for the pritein found in meat, meals often rely heavily 
on the use of eggs and cheese. Both dairy
Parking often necessary
continued from page 22
For those students living in 
Shadyside/Squirrel Hill/Oakland walking 
and biking are probably the most common 
means of travel. However, these means may 
not be acceptable during the winter months. 
For handicapped students, travel by these 
means is not feasible.
Public transportation provides adequate 
service during the entire year. However, 
public transportation is not always conve
nient, requiring transfers and causing tar
diness due to delays in schedule.
Travelling to and from campus by 
automobile is definitely the most convenient 
means of transportation, and many students 
do bring their cars to campus daily. If no 
parking were available on campus, the 
students would have to park on the surroun
ding surface streets. Not only does parking 
off campus increase the walking distance to 
campus, but also increases the probability 
of auto theft and vandalism.
As a graduate student who must often 
spend nights in the lab, I would prefer to 
drive a car directly to my home. I will not 
endanger my well-being by walking alone 
late at night because Mr. Garrity advocated 
that cars do not belong at CMU.
Mr. Garrity should consider others before 
condemning parking by students on cam
pus. That CMU is an intellectual university 
does not imply that parking for students is 
a luxury - it is often a necessity.
Stacey G. Bike 
Chemical Engineering third year 
graduate student
products contain high levels of cholesterol. 
The infrequent fleshless meals that dont in
clude dairy products usually contain beans. 
While beans are valuable protein sources, 
they must be combined with grain sources, 
which are non-existent in all four cafeterias.
In addition, intermediate foodstuffs such 
as soup, which may be made with animal 
stock, are not properly labelled and workers 
are usually not aware of the ingredients of 
the food which they peddle.
Mohan Embar Electrical and Computer Engineering *88
Opinion Policy
The Editorial appearing at the beginning 
of the opinion section is the official opinion 
of The Tartan Editorial Board.
Columns are the opinions of individual 
authors who are not necessarily on The Tar
tan Editorial Board or Staff.
Letters to the Editor are opinions of in
dividual authors who are usually members 
of the University community. A letter in
tended for publication must be signed and 
include the writer's address and phone 
number for verification. Names will be 
withheld upon request. The Tartan reserves 
the right to condense or reject any letter.
some people enjoy this kind of atmosphere 
and challenge. For others, the work here 
doesnt seem that tough. But if youre 
someone who has to struggle and spend time 
to understand something (like me), do not 
evalutate the situation by what others can 
do.
If you feel CMU is the place for you to be,
I pray you still take the time to think of the 
implication of what youre going to be work
ing on (because we are responsible for what 
we do) and that you take time to consider 
the purpose of living. For if working hard 
and then letting loose is all there is to life 
 doesnt it seem rather meaningless?
Scott Bonner is a graduate student in 
MEMS.
Thelrtan.
Editor-in-Chief ... Christopher D. Lewis
Managing Editor...........Mohan Embar
Business Manager ...John Friedmann
News Editor........................Karen Gray
Entertainment Editor ...Anthony Datri
Features Editor.....Christy Casamassima
Sports Editor............Bonnie Jacobson
Photography Editor........Olve Peersen
Dossier Editor ..............Michele Keane
Art Manager..................Mike Sussman
Ad Manager ....................Celeste Clark
Production Manager ... Katrin Wesner 
Typesetting Manager ..Kathryn Sitter
ACME Director ...............Vijay Reddy
Asst. Art Manager..........Mark Kissner
Asst. Production Manager Don Gamble 
Asst. Typesetting Mngr. Paul Rydzewski
Contributing Editors: Neal Johnston, Ric 
Medrow, Stephen Volan.
Copyright  1985 by The Tartan. The 
Editorial Board reserves the right to 
withhold from publication any copy it deems 
unfit for publication. Editorial Offices: 
Skibo 50, (412) 578-2112. Business Offices: 
Skibo 52, (412) 578-2113. Mailing address: 
Skibo 103, Student Activities, CamegieMellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213. 
Funded in part by the Activities Fee. 
All rights reserved.
Thanks to Mohan Embar and the rest of 
The Tartan staff for coming through 
while their editor was sick.Ed.

---------------------------------------------------

PIZZA  PIZZA PIZZA PIZZA PIZZAABConcerts and ABDance
Congratulate
the winners in the 
Rhythm Romance Raffle
Jenny Boyd Grand Prize
FREE Delivery
We sell pizza by the slice
Peter Radler Mike Goddard
Gill Shih Don Gamble
Spencer Barrett Mary Sullivan
Anne Schwartz Kip Reese
Debbie Fugate Hung Nguyen
Chris DeGracia Justine Waldman
Mike Endelsky Jon McDonald
Special Thanks To
LARGE 
PIZZA
Offer
Valid
With
Mention
 fgflFREE e
^ V fijMBIiter of Coke ^
N With Purchase N
Of Large Pizza ^
PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA  PIZZA3911 FORBES AVENUE
CMU Students
Scotland Yard
has positions open for bartenders 
waiters, and cashiers.
Applications
available October 14th through 
October 24th at Skibo-Information 
Desk.
All applications due no later than 
October 24th.

---------------------------------------------------

October 22, 1985The TartanPage 25
i
Mandela embodies South African freedom ideis
continued from page 23
To highlight its most important points, the 
Charter basically says: We, the people of 
South Africa, declare for all our country and 
the world to know:
 that South Africa belongs to all who live 
in it, black or white, and that no government 
can justly claim authority unless it is based 
on the will of the people;
 that our people have been robbed of their 
birthright to land, liberty, and peace by a 
form of government founded on injustice 
and inequality.
 that our country will never be prosperous 
or free until all our people live in 
brotherhood, enjoying equal rights and 
opportunities;
 that only a democratic state, based on the 
will of all of the people, can secure to all 
their birthright without distinction of col
or, race, sex or belief...
Who is Nelson Mandela?
Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela has been in 
prison for more than twenty years, but re
mains a symbol of the aspirations and 
determination of the South African people 
to eradicate the inhuman system of apar
theid and establish a democratic society.
He joined the African National Congress 
in 1944 as a young militant espousing a 
positive action program to achieve the rights 
of the oppressed African people. He was 
elected Transvaal President of the ANC in 
1952 and was volunteer-in-chief of the cam
paign of Defiance of Unjust Laws, launch
ed that year by ANC and its sister 
organizations.
Mandelas political beliefs are well sum
marized by a quote which he gave at his trial 
in 1962. Mandela said,I hate the practice 
of race discrimination, and in my hatred I 
am sustained by the fact that the over
whelming majority of mankind hate it 
equally. I hate the systematic inculcation 
children with color prejudice and I am sus
tained in that hatred by the overwhelming 
majority of mankind, here and abroad, are 
with me in that. I hate the racial arrogance 
which decrees that the good things of life 
shall be retained as the exclusive right of a 
minority of the population, and which 
reduces the majority of the poulation to a 
position of subservience and inferiority, and 
maintains them as voteless chattels to work 
where they are told and behave as they are 
told by the ruling : minority. I am sustained 
in that hatred by the fact that the over
whelming majority of mankind both in this 
country and abroad are with me.
Despite this seemingly humanitarian posi
tion, Mandela is, nevertheless, portrayed by 
the South African government as a radical 
and a terrorist. South African President 
Pieter Botha recently offered him his 
freedom if he would denounce the armed 
struggle. Mandela refused to do so.
In order to understand this refusal, we 
must look once again to exerpts from his 
1962 trial speech. Mandela said, I do not 
deny that I planned sabotage. I did not plan 
it in a spirit of recklessness, nor because I 
have any love of violence. I planned it as a 
result of a calm and sober assessment of the
FutonsTHE COMFORTABLE 
JAPANESE COUCH 
OR BED. 661-6499 
CARLISLE MATTRESS 
FACTORY OUTLET
politcal situation that had arisen after many 
years of tyranny, exploitation, and oppres
sion of my people by the whites.
...The African National Congress was 
formed in 1912 to defend the rights of the 
African people which had been seriosly cur
tailed by the South African Act, and which 
were being threatened by the Native Land 
Act. For 37 years -that is until 1949- it 
adhered strictly to a constitutional struggle. 
It put forward demands and resolutions; it 
sent delegations to the government in the 
belief that African grievances could be settl
ed through peaceful discussion and that 
Africans could advance gradually to full 
political rights. But White Government re
mained unmoved, and the rights of Africans 
became less instead of becoming greater. In 
the words of my leader, Chief Lutuli, who 
became President of the ANC in 1952, and 
who was later awarded the Nobel Peace 
Prize:
Who will deny that 30 years of my life 
have been spent knocking in vain, patient
ly, moderately and modestly at a closed and 
barred door? What have been the fruits of
moderation? The past 30 years have seen the 
greatest number of laws restricting our rights 
and progress, until today we have reached 
a stage where we have almost no rights at all.
...we believe that as a result of Govern
ment policy, violence by the African people 
had become inevitable, and that unless 
responsible leadership was given to canalize 
and control the feelings of our people, there 
would be outbreaks of terrorism which 
would produce an intensity of bitterness and 
hostility between the various races of this 
country which is not produced even by war.
Secondly, we felt that without violence 
there would be no way open to the African 
people to succeed in their struggle against 
the principle of White supremacy. All lawful 
modes of expressing opposition to this prin
ciple had been closed by legislation, and we 
were placed in a position in which we had 
either to accept a permanent state of in
feriority, or to defy the Goverment. We chose 
to defy the law. We first broke the law in a 
way which avoided any recourse to violence; 
when this form was legislated against, and 
then the government resorted to a show of
force to crush opposition to its policies, on
ly then did we decide to answer violence with 
violence. 
These are not all of the factors which must 
be considered in drawing conclusions about 
South Africa. I leave it up to the reader to 
seek out whatever further information he or 
she may deem necessary for his or her own 
personal needs.
As I stated before, my intent is not to sell 
anyone on a particular course of action to 
solve the problems of South Africa, nor is 
it to sway anyone to my political beliefs. 
Rather, I advocate that each person seek out 
infromation on the issues which affect us, 
and use that information to formulate well 
founded opinions.
The Bible says, Ye shall know the truth, 
and the truth shall make you free. Each of 
us has the option of obtaining the freedom 
which comes through knowledge or being 
content to forever wallow in a slippery 
morass of self-imposed ignorance. Which 
shall it be?
Donald Starver is a senior in Information 
Management.
PREGNANT?
And you didn't mean to be? 
For a tree pregnancy test and 
confidential help, call 
Birthright at 741-3491.________
Apply now for an 
8% student loan from Marine Midland
With Marines Guaranteed Student Loans, quali
fied undergraduates can get up to $2,500 a 
year and graduate students up to $5,000 a year 
to help finance college costs. You won't have to 
start paying a penny of it back until six months 
after you leave school and then at only 8% 
annual interest.
Check with your Financial Aid Office about 
Marines Guaranteed Student Loans.
And, if you need additional financing or if you 
dont qualify for a Guaranteed Student Loan, ask 
about our Auxiliary Loans to Assist Students 
(ALAS).
For more information, call 1-800-448-3400 
Ext. 75 or write:
MMB Education Loans 
P.O. Box 10595 
Rochester, N.Y. 14610
YOU CAN MAKE IT HAPPEN WITH
MARINE
MARINE MIDLAND BANK
Marine Midland Sank. N A

---------------------------------------------------

W3VC
CMU Radio Club
offers
Novice License 
Classes
Get an Amateur Radio 
License in one weekend!
We'll teach you everything in 
one weekend and give you the 
FCC Exam.
You must register, so contact 
Mike Chepponis in Robotics or 
Chepponis @A.CS.CMU.EDU
Leave Campus address and 
phone number.
Course will cost $5 for 
supplies.
Fall 1985 Spring Carnival
Booth Meetings
All meetings on Mondays at
7pm in Skibo
Monday, November 4 Room 12 
November li Room 12 
November 18 Room 12 
November 25 Room ll
Have a representative from your 
organization at each meeting if 
you plan on being a part of Car
nival 86.
camegie
melln
COFFEEHOUSE
PRESENTS
MURPH
THE PHYSICAL COMEDIAN
FRIDAY OCTOBER 25 
8:00 P.M. WHERRETT RM.
FUNDED BY ACTIVITIES FEE
"Comedy out of bounds. 
What a madman"
THE DINER REVIEW

---------------------------------------------------

Acme.
Announcements
Short Story Contest Open: Creative writers are 
invited to enter the 1986 Raymond Carver Short 
Story Contest sponsored by Humboldt State 
University. The winner will receive a $250 cash 
prize and publication in Toyon 86, Humboldts 
literary magazine. Submissions are limited to one 
unpublished, fictional story, not to exceed 25 
double-spaced pages. Two copies of the 
manuscript should be sent with the authors 
name, address and title of the story, typed on a 
cover sheet. Writers should also include two selfaddressed, stamped envelopes for notification of 
receipt of manuscript and announcement of win
ners and runners-up. Manuscripts will not be 
returned. The judge for the 1986 Raymond 
Carver Short Story Contest is Charles Baxter, 
author and recipient of a National Endowment 
fo the Arts (NEA) Grant and a Guggengeim 
Fellowship. The entry deadline is December 1, 
1985. Entry fee is $5 payable to the Raymond 
Carver Short Story Contest. All entries should be 
mailed to Carver Contest, c/o Department of 
English, Humboldt State University, Areata, CA 
95521. For more information call (707) 826-3758.
Carnegie-Mellon Drama Department Needs 
You! Usher twice and you can see the play free.
Classifieds
NEED MONEY? R&L Associates, a student 
corporation, is in need of production assistants. 
Earn 3.75-4.25/hour and be able to begin im
mediately. Opportunities for advancement within 
company available. Call Robin at 422-3016 or at 
x3535 to leave a message.
Curt, I love you! Deb.
Apartment For Rent  Shadyside1 bedroom, 
living room, equipped kitchen, bath, parking, 
flexible lease. Save money! $300.00 utilities in
cluded. Call 733-4634
Perfect Two Bedroom Apartment A two
bedroom apartment located close to campus in 
Shadyside. Apartment is very clean and can come 
with furniture. One months free rent will be given 
if you rent this week. If interested, please call 
Glenn (824-9297). Leave name and number if Im 
not in.
Squirrel Hill 5 bedroom parking, family room, 
dining room, living room, sun parlor, skylight, 
washer & dryer, complete kitchen, backyard. 
$735/month+utilities, call 363-8569 or 421-1968
Process and Meaning, by Evans Woollen, Prisident of Woollen, Molzan & Partners from In
dianapolis. Presented by the Department of Ar
chitecture. Wean Hall 7500, 8 pm.
Process and Meaning, presented by Evans 
Woollen, President of Woollen, Molzan and Part
ners. Part of the Architecture Lecture Series, 
Wean Hall 7500, 8 pm.
Community Events
Families in Transition. A workshop for students 
whose parents are separated or divorced. A 
workshop presented by the Counseling Center. 
From 3:30 pm to 5 pm. For information and 
registration, call x2922 or sign up at E Tower, 
Morewood Gardens 103.
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
October 27 for details.
Wednesday
Movies
2001, starring Keir Dullea, Gary 
Lockwood, Douglas Rain as the voice of HAL. 
A science-fiction classic about mans journey into 
space in pursuit of a Superior Power. Rated G. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 10 pm. Admis
sion $2.95.
Recreation
La Table Franaise, the French language table. 
Morewood Dining Room, 12 pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Clubs
AIESEC, an international, student-run business 
organization, offers a world of experience, both 
practical and cultural. Skibo 11, 4:30 pm. 
Everyone welcome.
Orthodox Christian Fellowship, weekly meeting 
for Bible study and discussions. Skibo 39, 7 pm 
to 8 pm. Everyone welcome.
Lectures
Kurt Vonnegut, presented by AB Lectures. Fund
ed by activities fee. Tickets on sale at Skibo In
formation Desk. Tickets on sale Monday to Fri
day from 9 am to 5 pm. Tickets available for 
CMU community only. You must present your 
own CMU ID. One ID per person. You can buy 
two tickets. Skibo Ballroom, 8 pm. Tickets $3.
Use and Misuse of Architectural Magazines,
presented by Pierre Zoelly, visiting Andrew Mellon 
Professor. College of Fine Arts 206, 12 pm.
Conceptual Art of the 70s: Europe and 
America, by Anne Rorimer, art historian and 
former associate curator at the Art Institute of 
Chicago. Carnegie Institute, Museum of Art 
Theater, 7:30 pm. Admission $3.
Student Activists Do you have political savvy? Are 
you concerned with the issues that affect the 
quality of life? Get involved with the CLEAN 
WATER ACTION PROJECT, the National 
Citizens lobby working on Toxic Waste and Water 
Quality. EOE Call now! 765-3053
Word Processing/Typing Services! Resumes, 
case studies, term papers, theses. Call 553-2410 
Mon-Fri $1 per page
$10-$360 Weekly/Up Mailing Circulars! No
quotas! Sincerely interested rush self-addressed 
envelope: Success, PO Box 470CEG, Woodstock, 
IL 60098.
Group Leaders wanted for Jewish Youth 
Organization. Good payconvenient hours. Con
tact 521-4877 or 521-7025.
Manager Trainee Career Opportunities Im
mediate openings to earn good income and 
bonuses. P-t, f-t sales & sales management. Com
mission only. We provide complete training. Call 
795-4241.
OVER 50 BRANDS OF AUDIO, VIDEO AND 
CAR STEREO EQIPMENT. CONTACT HAL 
AT 683-3948 AFTER 6 P.M.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
October 27 for details.
Thursday
Movies
The Tin Drum, starring David 
Bennent, Mario Adorf, Angela Winkler. About 
a boy refusing to grow up as the Nazis take power. 
Oscar winner for Best Foreign Film. Rated R. 
Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 10:00 pm, Ad
mission $2.95.
Chinatown. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8:30 pm,
11 pm. Admission $1.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater, by Christopher 
Durang. A humorous look at parenthood. City 
Theatre Company, South Bouquet St. in 
Oakland, 8 pm. For more information call 
624-4101.
Music
Convocation. Anita Stuart-Steva (graduate 
student), mezzo-soprano. Program of German 
lieder. College of Fine Arts Alumni Concert Hall, 
12:30 pm.
Recreation
Deutscher Stammtisch, the German language 
table. Morewood Dining Room, 12pm. Everyone 
welcome.
Tai Chi Exercise. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 pm. 
Free for students and faculty members.
Clubs
CMU Investment Club. Learn how to invest and 
manage a real portfolio. Skibo 11, 6:30 pm. 
Even/one welcome.
CMU Explorers Club plans rock-climbing, 
kayaking, caving, hiking, and more. Skibo 11, 8 
pm. Beginners welcome.
Community Events
Admissions Information Workshop, for the
graduate and professional school bound student. 
Learn tips on locating programs, finding dollars, 
and completing applications. Presented by the 
Career Services and Placement (CS&P). Skibo 11, 
4:30 pm to 6 pm.
Study Smarter. Learn how to study more effec
tively with a variety of techniques. A workshop 
presented by the Counseling Center. From 4 pm 
to 5 pm. For more information and registration 
call x2922 or sign up at E Tower, Morewood 
Gardens 103.
VINYL PADDED CHAIRS WITH ARMS $5. 
LOUNGE FURNITURE WITH BLACK 
METAL LEGS AND WALNUT TRIM  
SINGLE CHAIR $20, TWO CUSHION SOFA 
$30, THREE CUSHION SOFA $50. CONTACT 
THE PLACEMENT OFFICE, WARNER HALL 
ROOM 19, X-2064.
$60.00 PER HUNDRED PAID for remailing 
letters from home! Send self-addressed, stamped 
envelope for information/application. Associates, 
Box 95-B, Roselle, NJ 07203
Is It True You Can Buy Jeeps for $44 through 
the U.S. government? Get the facts today! Call 
1-312-742-1142 Ext. 3401-A
OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS for writer with PR 
instincts and/or politician with writing skills. 
County internships program looking for taskoriented introvert/imaginative extrovert or some 
appropriate combination thereof. Flexible 
hours guaranteed portfolio. Inquire: Karen 
Gray, Tartan News Editor
Miscellaneous
Reminder. Registration is on Wednesday, 
November 13 and Thursday November 14.
Managing Stress. Learn how to cope with 
academic and personal pressures. A workshop 
presented by the Counseling Center. From 4 pm 
to 5 pm. For more information and registration 
call x2922 or sign up at E Tower, Morewood 
Gardens 103.
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, 
October 27 for details.
Online Catalog Introductory Class. The session 
will help you improve your library reasearch by 
teaching both basic and more advanced 
strategies. Other classes are scheduled this term. 
Hunt Librarys second floor seminar room, 2:30 
pm. Call or visit the Hunt Reference Desk (x2442) 
for more information, or to sign up for a class.
Friday
Movies
Doctor Strangelove, starring 
George C. Scott, Peter Sellers, Sterling Hayden, 
Peter Bull, Slim Pickens. A comedy classic about 
a nightmare situation when someone presses the 
button. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm, 
11:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Tommy, starring Oliver Reed, Ann-Margaret, 
Elton John as the Pinball Wizard, Jack 
Nicholson as the Specialist, Tina Turner as the 
Acid Queen and Eric Clapton as the Preacher. 
Based on the rock opera by Peter Townsend and 
THE WHO. Pittsburgh Filmmakers, 205 
Oakland Ave., 8 pm, 10 pm. Admission $3.
The Terminator. Doherty 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10
pm, 12 am. Admission $1.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Oc
tober 10th for more information. Show times are 
now 2 pm and 7 pm.
Music
25th New Grass Revival from Nashville is play
ing at the Graffitti.
Sports
Womens Volleyball away game against 
Washington & Jefferson College at 7 pm.
Clubs
Women in Travel, a luncheon given by Profes
sional Women on Campus and sponsored by 
Forbes Travel and USAir. Through CMU cater
ing, the menu is soup, salad, vegetarian quiche, 
beverage, and dessert. Cost of luncheon is $1 for 
non-members; free for members. For information 
about becoming a member call Andrea McDivett 
at x2996 or Marcy Zaragozo at x8818. To make 
your reservation call Pat Billy at x6679. Skibo 
Wherrett Room, 12 pm to 1 pm.
The plays are Odon Von Horvaths Tales from, the 
Vienna Woods on November 6,7,8,9,20,21,22,23 
and George Feydeaus One Acts on November 13, 
14, 15, 16 and December 4, 5, 6, 7. For more in
formation call 578-2407.
Events
?x Tuesday
M M Movies
mmmi mmm Koyaanisqtsi. A film about 
America that is based on the Hopi Indian word 
meaning life out of balance. Pittsburgh 
Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Sports
Soccer home game against Frostburg State Col
lege at 3:30 pm.
Womens Volleyball home game against Theil 
College and St. Vincent College at 6 pm.
Recreation
Tai Chi Exercises. Experience the four-hundredyear-old Chinese exercise. Skibo 12, 2 pm to 3 pm. 
Free for students and faculty members. 
Sportsline, a weekly sports interview call-in talk 
show on WRCT 88.3 FM. 8:30 pm to 9 pm.
Clubs
Pittsburgh GO Group. GO is an ancient orien
tal game of strategy offering simple rules and 
many levels of complexity of play. Skibo 13, 7 pm. 
Beginners welcome.
Student Mixer. The American Society of 
Mechanical Engineers invites the Junior and 
Senior Mechanical Engineers to a student mixer 
at the University of Pittsburgh. William Pitt 
Union, 5:30 pm to 9 pm. For more information 
see the ASME bulletin board on the second floor 
of Scaife Hall.
Lectures
The United Nations at 40: Perils and Prospects 
for a Changing World. A dialogue on the past 
and the future of the UN at its 40th anniversary. 
Presented by Donald C. Stone, a member of the 
U.S. delegation at the 1945 founding of the 
United Nations in San Francisco, and John E. 
Fobes, a former Deputy Director General of the 
United Nations Education, Scientific and 
Cultural Organization. Moderated by Michael 
McGough, the Associate Editor of the Pittsburgh 
Post Gazette. Sponsored by the United Nations 
Association of Pittsburgh (UNAP), the World 
Federalist Association of Pittsburgh (WFA), and 
the League of Women Voters Allegheny County 
Council. Skibo Ballroom, 7:30 pm. For more in
formation call UNAP at 421-1655 or WFA at 
471-7852. Admission is free and open to the 
public.

---------------------------------------------------

Page 28The TartanOctober 22, 1985
Lectures
Not Necessarily the News Anne Bloom and 
Danny Breen will conduct an open forum featur
ing clips from their monthly show, a questionand-answer session, and a discussion and im
provisation session in Arthur Girons acting 
seminar. Forum: Skibo Ballroom, 12 pm; 
Seminar: Margaret Morrison, 2:30 pm.
26
Saturday
Movies
Indiana Jones and the Temple of 
Doom, starring Harrison Ford, Kate Capshaw, Ke 
Huy Quan, Amrish Puri. Directed by Steven 
Spielberg. The sequel to Raiders of the Lost Arc. 
Rated PG. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm, 9:40 
pm, 11:50 pm. Admission $2.95.
Tommy. See Friday, October 25 for details.
Wise Blood, directed by John Huston and with 
introductory comments by Mary Rawson. A 
benefit screening presented by the Western PA 
Chapter of the Lupus Foundation of America and 
the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine. 
Benedum Hall Auditorium, Pitt Campus, 8 pm. 
Donations are $4.50 at the door; $4 in advance. 
Call 647-3676.
Breakfast Club. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm,
10 pm, 12 am. Admission $1.
Plays
Baby with the Bathwater. See Thursday, Oc
tober 24 for more information. Show times are 
now 2 pm and 7 pm.
Dance
Clipper Ship Dance. Presented by the Student 
Dormitory Council (SDC). The dress is semiformal. Transportation is provided by the SDC. 
It leaves Skibo at 10:15 pm and returns at 2:30 
pm. Tickets on sale at the Skibo information 
desk. Tickets are $5 per person.
Sports
lrtan Football home game against Bethany Col
lege at 1:30 pm.
Soccer away game against Washington & Jeffer
son College at 11 am.
Mens Cross-Country home meet against Theil 
College at 11 am.
Womens Cross-Country home meet against 
Theil College at 11 am.
Community Events
Learn CPR. You can learn how to save lives. 
Sponsored by the CMU-Emergency Medical Ser
vice, a student run organization. Morewood 
Gardens Rec Room, 8 am to 5 pm. $8 if you 
preregister, $10 at the door. Preregister and pay 
at the Skibo Information Desk.
27
Sunday
Movies
Unibed Wy
Fiddler on the Roof, starring 
Topol, Leonard Frey, Molly Picon, Norma Crane, 
Neva Small. A rendering of the Broadway 
musical about a small Russian village and the 
changes that are forced on its inhabitants. Pitt
sburgh Playhouse, 7:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
Vacation. Doherty Hall 2210, 6 pm, 8 pm, 10 pm,
12 am. Admission $1.
Music
Carnegie-Mellon University Symphony Or
chestra, conducted by Werner Torkanowsky. Col
lege of Fine Arts Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm.
Community Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. Sponsored by 
Student Affairs and the Counseling and Student 
Development Center in Morewood Gardens, E 
Tower, x2922. Tutoring: Calculus Pre, I, II, III 
in Porter Hall 126 A; Physics in Porter Hall 126 
B; Chemistry in Porter Hall 225 B; English as a 
second language in Baker Hall 135 B; Economics 
in Porter Hall 226 B; Introduction to Computing 
in Wean Hall 5415; Financial Accounting in 
Porter Hall 226 C; Academic Writing Problems 
in Baker Hall 235 B. 7 pm to 10 pm.
^ Monday
W Movies
The Hunger, starring Catherine 
Deneuve, David Bowie, Susan Sarandon. A vam
pire movie with high fashion and a little 
decadence. Rated R. Pittsburgh Playhouse, 7:30 
pm, 9:30 pm. Admission $2.95.
A JClubs
A Phi O meets in Skibo Wherrett Room at 7 pm. | 
Music
Senior Recital. Lionel Young plays violin. ColI 
lege of Fine Arts Alumni Concert Hall, 8 pm. 1
 'O* ' iiCommunity Events
Free Walk-in Tutoring Program. See Sunday, j 
October 27 for details.
If you wish to place an announcement,  j 
classified ad, miscellaneous item, or event in The I 
Tartan send it in care of the Acme Editor, The I 
Tartan, 103 Skibo, Carnegie-Mellon University, I 
Pittsburgh, PA. 15213; send it via campus mail 
to the above address; or drop it off at our offices I 
in 50 Skibo. Events may be sent through comI 
puter mail to TT99@TF. Only classified ads will 1 
be accepted over the phone.
Please include the following information when 1 
submitting events: title of event, sponsor, brief I 
description, location, date, and time. In addiI 
tion, include the name and phone number of the % 
person submitting; this information will be used J 
only to confirm the event.
The Tartan is not responsible for the accuracy K 
or validity of any Events listings. In addition, it 1 
reserves the right to edit or omit any listing for 1 
publication.
Classified ad forms are available in our office. ]
All events are free of charge and open to the J 
general CMU student population unless otherJ 
wise noted.
Deadline for Acme Submissions is Wednesday j| 
at 5 pm for the next weeks issue. If you have any , 
comments or suggestions, send them to any of the 1 
addresses listed above.
co
Women'sHealthServices

PLA
CARINI
AflE
Gyn Check-Ups
Abortion Sernas
Free Pregnancy Tests
 Confidential
Counseling
107 6ttgt,.pnnrtfwPih.
DUKE
THE FUQUA SCHOOL OF BUSINESS
MBA
The Fuqua School of Business at Duke 
University offers one of the finest available 
opportunities for unsurpassed professional 
management training. We are interested in 
men and women who have proven aca
demic, leadership, and social abilities.
Michael Hostetler 
Director of Admissions
of the Fuqua School 
will be on campus
Wednesday, October 30
Appointment information may be obtained 
by contacting:
Office of Career Services 
and Placement
H AIE CILUH&
SJh
406 South Craig St. 
Oakland
Phone: 621-HAIR
Our Ftril ntiue 
dalon Ottara:
 Frosting*  Manicuras
 Catlopnanaa  Hair Cutting
 Special Etfacts a Body Wavasa Hair Color
Save*Five Dollars!-! ! Save Six Dollars!
iPresent This Coupon And J | Present This Coupon And Receive A j j Receive A COMPLETE
HAIRCUT ,I I Reg.* Mens Or Reg. I jIncludes: Haircut, PriceWomens Price Jl5w j I Perm, Blow Dry And Styling $35.N
,-j L_.S10M!!PBHH $29
BE A ROAD SCHOLAR
Get an "A" around town. 
You can rent a car if you're 
18 or older, have a valid 
driver's license, current stu
dent I.D. and a cash depos
it. Stop by and fill out a short 
cash qualification form at
* Weekend rate available noon Thursday through Monday. Each rental day is a 24-hour period beginning at time of rental.Extra hours charged at regu
lar low rates. Certain 
daily minimums apply. Rates will be slightly lower for drivers over 25.
least 24-hours in advance. 
You pay for gas used and 
return car to renting loca
tion. We also accept most 
major credit cards.
We feature CM cars like this Chevrolet Chevette.
Non-discountable rate applies to this or similar - size car and is sub feci to change without notice. Specific cars subject to availability.Call for details.
// National Car Rental,
Carnegie-Mellon deserves National attention.
Available at:
434 Boulevard of the Allies 261-5500 
4621 Forbes Avenue (Oakland) 682-1444 
3950 Wm. Penn Highway (Monroeville) 372-1667
%i

---------------------------------------------------

Reduce Stress
 back care
 effective nutrition
 exercise outlets
 relaxation techniques
 blood pressure tests
Stop by the Wherrett Room 
Thursday Oct. 24 
12:00 pm-5:30 pm
Dont Crack
SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES: 
Stress reducing workshops
1:00 Lower back clinic 
2:00 Massage 
3:00 Using biofeedback 
4:00 "Stroke Away Stress"
Ongoing information
- About stress: Video on the
Stress Syndrome
- About nutrition:
* Healthy cooking:
Student Affairs Staff
* Video on effective nutrition
- About exercise:
* Movie: George Sheehan in
"Coping with Life on the Run"
* Video on exercise outlets for
stress
V>

---------------------------------------------------

Funnies.
Zurkby Nabil Liumang
*
Murray The Bearby Jimbo Voorhees
X WOULD NT 60 IM \ 
THERE IF I WERE 
You. Murray mod 
DAD ARE AT IT ft6AtU.
howd it start ? J
3
otby Lizi
WATCHING 
"FACE THE 
NVTIOlO"
AWH MURRAY ASKED
Jns BKA RbEKobN 
Gh YKsbA BKooI otbs
t>M> CALLED MURRAY,
A 14/URY, ATHEISTIC 
^VINCE MEIL RE3ECT.^/ 
>>-------------------------------
Poindexterby Don Beyer
My iMTPvievAJefi. Me 
why c OrWte to A-rre^p 
CVAV ...
V
I C,h'D, ' IT \Mi7 A rossUf SirTtAifeM 
M0 akio pgisiw swe ; /op obviously 
TH* SCHOOU 6L0AIS fesfrj C,TAT^
Aw*y /
\A/A<b He 
i/v>ppssep ?
(Jo . HE V>JK> FpOiVA
aefGr I
Nollem Eigenracby Mike McHugh & Co.
WELL, SI MCE Hri A LITTLE Lex*) 
OH CASVA , V tW AS WIL OO 
TRY iT OUT R\e>vtT UC*0.

---------------------------------------------------

BEER & POP WAREHOUSE
N. VERSAILLES, PA 
REAR OF EASTLAND MALL 
OFF RT. 30
KEGS, ICE, COLD BEER _ TAPS. SNACKS^
Inkspotsby Kurt Shaw^  AM-10 PM 
J MON.-SAT.
^Wl 9 ACCEPT COUPONS
PHONE 672-BEE
PA'SLOWEST BEER PRICES!
BUDWEISER (REG. & LT.)
BUSCH & NAT. LIGHT 
BUCK LABEL
GENESEE BEER (REG. & LT.) 
GENESEE CREAM ALE (REG. & LT.) 
IRON CITY 
1C LIGHT
1C GOLDEN LAGER 
MILLER
MICHELOB (REG. OR LT.) 
NATIONAL BOHEMIAN 
OLD MILWAUKEE 
OLD MILWAUKEE LIGHT 
ROLLING ROCK 
SCHLITZ MALT LIQUOR 
SCHMIDTS (REG. OR IT.)
STROHS (REG. ORLT.)
Jerkins! Quit cloning around!
provided by SDC
InThTimr*<oocmss 
suhe: SupT nSTaTiIACRAZEPWOMAN RASfiCKM YOUR ftm/ V
YES. SHE'Sse&umm,mWANQmumm urn somf&tr,\ (MY, SQUAT , WALRUS/
SQUATWALRUS
OH, PVT A VERY NKE SQUAT i WALRUS'
pupkmtr aTrT,uamncugARB YOU POING YOU SHOULDw ps auupl Be umofc. \ URE A HUMAN/ [I i Bern /
11 ^ REAM FOR PtNNER 7
THAT'S i~ I WANT my 20 CENTVRY MEO-OOPUIU, eAT SOt FURNHVRe LIVER. 
MCK \
HO. WHAT THE HELL ISAU-THfS STUFF?Jeez.. LOOKSurn T cmmseINHSRE..cemw neo-FRENCH PROVINCIAL.
LOWEST
IN
PA!
HEINEKEN 
MOLSON GOLDEN 
ST. PAULI GIRLSTACK n TOTE
STORAGE CONTAINERSPAS LARGEST BEER & POP WAREHOUSE
204 Imported Beers from 42 Countries
 Designer colors  Industrial strength 
 Heavy duty plastic  In 2 sizes/6 colors
Create a storage wall -
Perfect lor books, toys. BftnSyaMQ
clothing, etc. KxSHHh
#3024 (19 'Lx13 Wx11 "H)
S15 set of 3 + S3 set  . V ^ 
shipping charges *. .
($18/set total)
clwJd gJlJvjou,JlJvCMB,JJUtm
$10/set of 3 + $3/set ^ flra
shipping charges
($13/set total) ,/v ^
COLORS:RED, WHITE, BLACK, BLUE 
YELLOW &MARBLEIZED
From CMU take 376 East 
Get off at Exit 10
SUPER KEG VALUES
1/4 1/2Old Milwaukee 11.99 18.99 
Budweiser 15.49 25.99
Please bring as proof of age Drivers 
license w/picture.
TMV Industries
PO. Box 35 
Shrewsbury, NJ 07701
I NAME__
I ADDRESS II CITY___
! Item #__Color(s).Quantity
? Check enclosed 
Total Payment:-------
N J residents add sales tax
(includes $3/set shipping & handling)
012
XVy\ \\WK\ sv t*j i

---------------------------------------------------

Petitions for Student Senate
Fall Elections
Student Senate Petitions
for MCS, IM, GSIA, CIT, 
H&SS, CFA and Student 
Government Treasurer avail
able at Skibo Desk.
Petitions due November 6th 
Elections Nov. 12th and 13th
Students interested in working 
on a CMU float for the Pitts
burgh Thanksgiving parade 
sign the sheet outside the 
Student Senate door, Skibo 59
STUDENT SENATE MEETINGS
Student Senate. Every Tuesday7:00 P.M. .* ,
Working together, Wherrett Room, Skibo
we get things done. Everyone is Welcome

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

1

---------------------------------------------------



---------------------------------------------------

CMU still undefeated, wins over W&J
By CHRISTOPHER D. LEWIS
Tartan Editor-in-Chief
It wasnt that pretty, but it was very effec
tive. The Carnegie-Mellon Tartans took ad
vantage of mistakes and turnovers by the 
previously undefeated Washington and Jef
ferson Presidents to take a 21-0 halftime lead 
en route to a 24-17 victory.
The win clinches at least a tie for the PAC 
championship. Now 7-0, the Tartans host the 
Bisons of Bethany this Saturday to close the 
season. Ranked number one in the Southern 
Region and number three nationally, CMU 
is virtually assured of a playoff berth if they 
defeat Bethany. Bethany is 1-5 after getting 
shutout by Thiel, 17-0. CMU defeated Thiel 
earlier this season, 45-3.
Against W&J, the Tartans stopped the po
tent running game of the Presidents, holding 
them to just 109 yards on 36 carries and 
35 yards on 20 carries in the first half 
blowout. PAC leading rusher A.J. Pagano 
was held to just 55 yards on 19 carries, 
though he did score both W&J touchdowns.
CMU took the opening kickoff and drove 
the field in 15 plays for the first score. 
Quarterback Mike Hensel completed four of 
six passes for 45 yards and capped the drive 
with a one-yard dive on fourth down.
CMU then made the biggest play of the 
game. On third and seven, W&J quarterback 
Rich Riotto (20-37, 272 yards, 2 intercep
tions) dropped back to pass and was
pressured by CMUs defensive line. Anthony 
Mozeleski hit Riotto as his arm came for
ward, and Ken Harris intercepted the pass. 
Three plays later Hensel hit Don Fleming 
for a 20-yard score and CMU had a 14-0 
lead.
That score demoralized the Presidents 
and they were frustrated. Pagano went after 
Brad Sherwin after Sherwin stripped the ball 
away from him in the second quarter. 
Special teams player Dan Rooney grabbed 
David Elias and threw him to the ground 
long after the whistle, at which time the of
ficials threw Rooney out of the game.
One frustrated player must have been 
W&J defensive end Orlando Williams. 
Williams, 62, 295 pounds had been a force 
on the Presidents defense all season. CMU 
stayed away from him much of the game, 
and tackle Rob Butts kept him under wraps 
for 60 minutes. Williams was hardly noticed.
Camegie-Mellon scored their third and 
final touchdown with 5:41 left in the second 
quarter. When Tim Denmeade dove over 
from three yards out to give CMU a 21-0 
lead. Denmeade gained 30 of the 41 yards 
on the drive on six carries. He finished with 
53 yards on 17 carries and caught four passes 
for 36 yards.
In the second half, Camegie-Mellon 
played passively. Coach Chuck Klausing 
played very conservatively on offense in the 
half, and many fans and players felt he sat
Junior defensive-back Mike LaValle dives for a tackle against W&J
Quarterback Mike Hensel puts the 
victory over W&J.
on the lead too soon. CMUs offense, ninth 
in Division III in scoring per game and fifth 
in total yardage, was outgained by W&J 
360-247. The Tartans gained just 99 second 
half yards, just 27 through the air.
The Presidents came storming back. Riot
to hit George McKenna for a 43 yard gain, 
setting up a third quarter Pagano 
touchdown run of five yards to cut CMUs 
lead to 21-7.
The Tartan defense held tough. A 35-yard 
field goal by Mike Nazzaro made the score 
24-7, and that was all for the CMU offense.
The defensive line pressured Riotto all day 
against a much larger W&J offensive line. 
Harris played very well, making a great play 
on a reverse by dangerous DeWayne Jeter as 
well as his interception. Tom Frost also 
played well. Frost, the smallest of CMUs line 
men, was double-teamed but still got Riot
to once and pressured him all day. But the 
defense was led by co-captian Mike Pater - 
chak. His leadership and linebacker play has 
been consistent all season. He and Ron Orie 
are the heart of the CMU Plain Curtain. 
Paterchak was named the WRCT-Skoal 
player of the game.
After a Pagano 10 yard run, Ted Bell 
hit a 24-yard field goal to make the score 
24-17 with 1:58 remaining in the game. Roy 
Teresky held on to the ensuing on-sides kick, 
and the Tartans undefeated season 
continued.
leads the Tartans to a 24-1?
Turnovers were a big key. W&J turned it | 
over three times, while CMU kept a tight! 
hold on the ball, committing no turnovers. V
If the heavily favored Tartans defeat! 
Bethany at "Tech Field this Saturday (1:301 
p.m.), they will gain a playoff berth in the! 
new 16-team format in Division III. Four 
teams from each region will be chosen. The j 
first round would be November 23, mean
ing that CMU would have three Saturdays ! 
off before playing.
Before the game, CMUs record-setting j 
cross country team was honored for its 71! 
consecutive dual meet win streak. Head i 
coach Gary Meckley was given a plaque for | 
his efforts. The Tartans try to extend that | 
streak Saturday at 11:00 a.m. against Thiel 
in Schenley Park.
HAt halftime, free safety Andy James was! 
named Mr. Varsity, 1985. Cheerleader Kim 
Kirkwood is the new Miss Varsity. Jame^ 
returning from a two weak layoff due to a * 
hamstring pull, intercepted a pass in the 
CMU victory.
The win gave Klausing a 40-3 regular 
season home record at CMU, including a 9-0 ; 
slate in Homecoming games. The Tartans S 
were ranked third in Division III behind last j 
years finalists, Augustana (Illinois) and Cen 
tral (Iowa). CMU is first in the 
Meadowlands-Lambert Cup voting for small 
college supremacy in the east.
Meckley and Harriers honored at Homecoming
By JOHN FRIEDMANN
Tartan Business Manager
Camegie-Mellon doesnt hold many sports 
records. So when the Tartans latch onto one, 
especially one that rates front page mention 
in USA Today, its a special event.
That record, held by the cross country 
team, is the NCAA Division III record for 
consecutive dual meet victories. In honor of 
the cross country teams record breaking 
68th victory on September 14 over Bethany, 
past and present team members who par
ticipated in the streak were honored at a pre
game ceremony and later, at a reception 
after the football Tartans downed W&J.
The leader of the cross country team is 
Coach Gary Meckley. An eighteen year CMU 
veteran, he is 183-21 in his tenure with the
harriers. He had a previous winning streak 
stopped in 1978, a defeat which he credits 
as the impetus for his current string of vic
tories, which now stands at 72. I decided 
then and there I was going to build a first 
class Division III program. They laughed at 
me, but then we started beating people like 
Pitt and West Virginia.
And what of the teams last loss, a 1979 
defeat by Allegheny College in the next-tolast meet of the season? I have bitter 
memories of that loss, noted Meckley. We 
lost the conference championship due to in
juries that year, and I decided then that I 
would go with people who I liked and 
cooperated with me, people who are selfmotivating.
The turnout for the reception was im
pressive, Every one of the runners who par
ticipated in the streak is back today. It makes 
me feel very proud," smiled Meckley.
One of those runners back at CMU was 
Chris Shafer, who ran for CMU from 1980 
through 1984. Cross country was half my 
life here. Although we never mixed 
academics and track, the team socialized 
together as a unit.
Shafer was one of a group of seven run
ners that comprised the heart of the squad 
in the middle of the streak, during the ear
ly eighties. That group, comprised of Shafer, 
Mike Short, John Wessels, Kevin Brewer, 
John McGowan, Bob Dusch, and Tom Bell, 
brought CMU a PAC Championship every 
year. They also brought home an Eastern 
Region Championship and National finishes
of 6th and 12th place overall.
When asked to identify a highlight, Shafer 
recalled the 1982 PAC Championships. We 
set a record for the lowest point score in a 
PAC Championship, 17, and we captured 
first, second, third, fifth, and sixth places 
in the meet  He also recalled the Regional 
Championships of 1980. * It was m/| 
freshman year, and we were at Rochester 
(NY). We didnt think we could compete on | 
that level, but we won the Region.
CMU has a very young team. Two of the | 
top six runners are freshmen, while the other 
four are sophomores, as are nine out of the 
sixteen team members. In two or three years 
we can be in the top three at the Nationalnoted Danowski. If the whole team is 
healthy we can make Nationals this year.
